

No. 3/0; the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt
/
te P P eltA
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
NASSER OF EGYPT- PAGE 28
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3991
Wednesday, August 8, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
LANYON QUOIT RECALLS ENGLAND'S ANCIENT DWELLERS
CORNWALL is a county of cromlechs, dolmens, prehistoric stone circles
and other evidence of the early beginnings of life in Britain —a strange and
secret past which has obtruded into the twentieth century. These survivals
are chiefly in the form of chambered tombs, of which Lanyon Quoit in the
parish of Madron, near Penzance, and illustrated here, is a good example.
At first glance these prehistoric tombs look like enormous tables and their
erection must have been a difficult problem even for a small army of men
three or four thousand years ago. They marked the burial place of important
individuals and were made of unhewn blocks of stone weighing many tons.
They are similar in structure to the dolmens of Spain, Portugal and Brittany,
which gives rise to the assumption that these early settlers of Cornwall and the
Scilly Islands came from these European countries and the Mediterranean.
Other outstanding examples of these ancient monuments are Zenner Quoit
and Trethevy Quoit, which are also in Cornwall. The burial places of lesser
members of these remote people were marked by great niounds or barrows—
the largest of which is Carn, south-east of Truro. Burial urns found in the
Cornish cromlechs can be seen in the municipal museum in Penzance,
Yet another kind of prehistoric monument is the stone circle found on the
windswept uplands of the Cornish peninsula and on Bodmin Moor. One of
the best examples can be seen at Rosemodres, near Penzance, known as The
Merry Maidens. According to legend the maidens were dancing on a Sunday
and were turned to stone for their wickedness. Today the stone circle is the
meeting place of the Cornish Bards.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
MAUROIS ON VICTOR HUGO
By NORMAN LINDSAY
Andre Maurois’s Victor Hugo
(Cape; Angus and Robertson) is
biography in the best manner. It
documents its subject from all angles
but refrains from intruding opinion
which either idolises or depreciates his
salient qualities. That is left to the
reader, and very few readers can
refrain from viewing Hugo from both
extremes of opinion.
Hugo’s life, like his writings, was an
over-life-size procedure, so tremen-
dously did his egotism dominate all
space about him. There are no sub-
merged privacies or duplicities in it on
which a literary gravedigger might
exercise his detective faculties. It was
lived ostentatiously in the open, as
great kings live, conscious that they are
immune from the niggling interdictions
under which baser humanity must
exist.
“Ego Hugo” was Hugo’s self-selected
crest. At the outset we realise that he
had every reason to believe that he
was not only a great genius but a
privileged being in all that related to
his desires and aspirations. Things
were made amazingly easy for him. He
suffered no early period of doubt,
stress, struggle or failure. From boy-
hood to maturity he walked into his
assured heritage as a great man with-
out a single arrest in his progress.
To be sure, conflict awaited his later
years, but that was inevitable. With-
out it there could be no definite stamp
of greatness in his works. And
whether you respond to them or reject
them, their basic greatness cannot be
denied.
For me, I confess, there is too much
of the ghoul in his composition for
my mature stomach to find palatable.
I read him with gusto in my youth,
but youth still retains its love of the
horror-thrill generated in childhood.
Recently I tried to read “Notre Dame”
again, but could not get through it.
The torturing of Esmeralda outrages
my sense of credulity. A Red Indian
must have succumbed to a tithe of the
sadism practised on the tender body
of that young girl
If Hugo’s literary destiny decided
that a substratum of ghoul was an
essential component of his works, it
took care early to provide him with
first-hand material for a nightmare of
the horrors. On a coach-journey to
Italy at the age of five, in the trail of
Napoleon’s armies, he saw mutilated
corpses and gobbets of human flesh
hanging from trees. A year or so
later, journeying through Spain, he
saw corpses by the roadside, as
products of the French effort to put
down the resistance-movement. Hugo’s
father, one of Napoleon’s generals, was
especially active in suppressing any
evidence of it, and was credited with
having had men thrown from high
windows, of having massacred a
monastery of monks, and of having
women and children disembowelled
and burned alive.
Presented as a gay fellow, a big,
boisterous soldier, given to writing
romantic verses, and never without a
mistress at hand to solace his military
ardors, he appears to have had no
compunction in performing this dirty
work on an unarmed civil population,
and no doubt little Victor, who greatly
admired his sabre-clanking father,
found this butchering of “bandits” a
highly meritorious proceeding. Return-
ing from Spain, he saw criminals
garrotted and their dismembered bodies
nailed to a cross . . .
All that before he was in his ’teens,
and at the most impressionable period
of his life. And bom into that post-
Revolution period when the French
people at large were subjected to
terrorism from two sources of conflict:
that of the Jacobin soldiers on one side
and the brigands, or Chouans, on the
other. At that time his mother, Sophie
Trebuchet, belonged to the anti-
Jacobin party, while Captain Hugo was
in charge of a force suppressing it. In
that character he met Sophie, a girl
of strong character 'and a cultivated
mind, and was so attracted by her that
he protected her, and the aunt with
whom she lived, from the mischances of
guerrilla warfare; and, being a tem-
pestuous lover, induced Sophie to
marry him, which she appears to have
done with some reluctance.
She was a woman of austere political
principles, temperately sexed, while
Hugo had no principles other than
those imposed by military authority,
and was an intemperate amorist. It
was a marriage destined to disruption.
After Sophie had borne three
children, all boys, she separated from
Hugo, and refused on any terms to
have further relations with him. She
appears to have had a semi-platonic
love-affair with a General Lahorie,
who also had austere republican prin-
ciples; and, when he was proscribed by
the Bonapartists, she gave him
sanctuary at her country house. Thus
Victor, now a schoolboy, was not only
subjected to the spectacle of conflict
between his parents but the conflict
also of their political principles. He
greatly admired his father as a dashing
military figure, and, like most French
boys, he adored his mother. In
maturity he constantly wobbled
between his Royalist and republican
sympathies . . .
All of which had no effect on his
literary precociousness. He wrote
incessantly; plays, poems and novels.
He and his brothers had the run of a
large library, and he read at large in
both classical and contemporary litera-
ture. There is a letter of his extant,
written to his father at the age of 13,
and signed also by his brother Eugene,
which exhibits not only his amazing
maturity of mind but his assured
control of style:—-
We have seen your correspond-
ence with mamma. What would you
have said to anyone who would have
dared to use such language to her in
the days when you first knew her,
when it was your delight to find
happiness in her company? She is
still, and always has been, the same,
and we shall ever think of her as
you thought of her then. Such are
the reflections to which your letter
has given rise in us. Deign to give
some thought to what we say, and
rest assured of the love which your
obedient and respectful sons will
always feel for you.
With a start on those terms at that
age there was no question of Hugo’s
literary destiny. At the age of 17 he
won the accolade of the Golden Lily,
in a poetry competition with such
established reputations as that of
Lamartine, who was 10 years older
than him. It gained him instant recog-
nition as a poet of distinction, and he
was hailed, with the French passion
for lyrical fustian, as The Divine
Child.
At 18 he edited and published his
own literary magazine, gathering about
him the younger members of the
Romantic movement. At 20 he was
given a pension of 2000 francs from
the Government, and, in spite of
parental opposition, married Adele
Fucher, his boyhood’s love. At 22 he
was awarded the ribbon of the Legion
d’Honneur and published his first
novel, “Han d’lslande,” a work
inspired by the horror-novels of Monk
Lewis and Mrs. Radcliffe; a nightmare
fantasy crammed with murders,
monsters, gibbets, executioners and
torture-chambers. It was greeted with
a perfect frenzy of adulation by the
press and public. It was hailed as a
masterpiece, not only by newspaper
critics. Even writers of note, such as
Alfred de Vigny and Sainte-Beuve,
paid homage to it. One exultant critic
announced in headlines “France has
her Walter Scott.”
It is easy to see where all this indis-
criminate praise arrived from. The
novel was not only a shameless appeal
to the popular taste, but, in spite of
its bombastic melodrama, it was well-
written. It was impossible for Hugo
to write badly, so that he caught the
mob on the one hand and the critics
of literary stylism on the other. Added
to that, it was a pungent affirmation of
the new Romantic movement now
violently at war with the classical tradi-
tion established by Corneille and
Racine . . .
That revolt was generated in Eng-
land by Scott and Byron, who broke
colorfully away from the cold formal-'
ism of the Augustan age of Dryden
and Pope,. while in Germany Goethe
and Schiller had revitalised both the
novel and the drama. Those four
figures dominated Europe, with Scott
towering above all; a literary
phenomenon that I doubt this earth
will ever see again.
Where a lesser man would have been
thrown off his balance by the
tremendous acclamation which greeted
Hugo’s early works, he remained calm
under it. His egotism was not made of
such febrile stuff. He expected no
less than to be accepted as a great
genius.
With the production of his play,
“Hernani,” he was hailed as the leader
of the Romantic movement, and open
warfare broke out between its young
adherents and the old diehards of the
classical tradition; those members of
the Academy who have the fatuous
lack of humor to label themselves the
Immortals. In the opening night of
the play the theatre was packed by
both parties, but the Romantics, led
by young Theophile Gautier in a rose-
pink doublet, trousers of pale sea-
green and a dress-coat with facings of
black velvet, shouted down the
classicists with yells of “Off with the
bald-pates!” The play was a success,
and from that moment Hugo’s income
was assured.
Following “Hernani,” he wrote his
novel “Notre Dame,” and that was
another success, though the journalists
attacked it. Hugo was able to
invest large sums yearly in sound
investments, while adding to his capital
and income. He was extremely shrewd
over money matters, and was tainted
with the national vice of penurious-
ness, even to the extent of auditing his
wife’s household accounts, and being
severe with her if she overspent her
weekly allowance . . .
With external conflict over his
writings, Hugo was now visited by
conflict in the home circle, in a situa-
tion which strangely repeated the dis-
union between his parents. Adele was
a temperately-sexed woman, and Hugo
had inherited his father’s potency.
While still in his twenties Adele had
borne five children to him, and at last
revolted against these constant preg-
nancies. She cut off marital relations
with Hugo while giving him full liberty
to divert himself with other ladies.
This break came as a shock to Hugo,
not only as treason to the demigod
within him, but as inflicting discomfort
on the needs of his robust masculinity.
Moreover, there was another element
in it which touched his self-esteem;
Adele had established a platonic love-
affair with Sainte-Beuve.
Sainte-Beuve had been one of Hugo’s
earliest idolators. He was a sound
critic, and he realised the high quality
of Hugo’s poetty and his power as a
writer; but, being also a realist, he
disliked the melodrama, bombast and
lack of emotional restraint in his
dramas and novels. In the early days
of their friendship he eulogised all that
was good in Hugo’s works and
refrained from criticising those
elements he disapproved of. He
became Hugo’s most intimate friend
and an extra member of the family.
Sainte-Beuve had no male graces.
He was a large-headed man with thin
red hair, a hesitant manner, and no
ease in the presence of women. His
private grief was that he had never
had a love-affair. Conscious of his lack
of attraction to women, he was forced
to consort with the cocottes of the
pavement. Brought constantly into
intimate relations with Adele, who, by
her portrait, was an extremely attrac-
tive woman, he fell in love with her;
and tormented, no doubt, by the
dilemma of his friendship with Hugo,
confessed to Hugo that he was in love
with his wife.
To this confession, Hugo reacted in
the correct terms of a Romantic. Love,
he admitted, condoned everything, even
an incipient threat of adultery. He
proposed, in terms of a stage husband,
that they put the situation to Adele
and let her choose between them; a
proposal which annoyed Sainte-Beuve
extremely, as putting him in a ridicu-
lous position. Whether or not the case
was put to Adele, her affair with Sainte-
Beuve continued.
They met clandestinely in churches;
sufficient evidence that the affair was
platonic. Doubtless Adele desired it
to be so. After a surfeit of her relations
with a domestic demigod, the pliable
and adoring Sainte-Beuve was the
sort of lover to satisfy her feminine
need for one without putting any
physical stress on their relations.
Adele was not an intellectual, and
she frequently annoyed Hugo
by making inconsequential remarks
while he was holding forth to the
company on the profundities of life
and art. She had a sense of humor,
and Hugo had none. Her letters attest
it, and there is more than a hint of
irreverence for him in them. Not all
were idolaters who frequented the
Hugo salon. Stendhal and Merimee
found him a bore, and Musset laughed
at him tolerantly. But women found
him fascinating.
That break in marital relations with
Adele, enforcing a period of contin-
ence on Hugo, occurred about the time
“Hernani” was written; and, in the
procedure of rehearsing it, in constant
contact with the hectic back-stage
emotions of the actresses, he very soon
found a solution to its discomforts—
in a love-affair with a young actress
named Juliette Drouet.
Juliette was a very minor actress,
but a lovely girl. She had had affairs
of convenience with several lovers, for
her salary gave her only a meagre
living. She was being kept in an
opulent way by a rich lover when she
had the misfortune to fall passionately
in love with Hugo. One can only call
it a misfortune, for it obsessed and
devastated her whole existence, up to
the last day of her life at the age of 74.
The last letter she wrote him was as
charged with lyrical adoration as those
in the first flush of a love-affair, yet
the whole course of her intimacy with
him was tormented by jealousy over
his other affairs with women.
And those affairs go beyond compu-
tation. One can only define them in
terms of the astronomical. Apart from
those with ladies of a distinguished
social position, and notable for their
wit and beauty, the minor actresses,
dancers, shop-girls and servant-girls
who trooped up the private stairway to
his apartments were legion. Age had
no effect either on his amorous exploits
or the instant charm he exerted over
all types of women. Young girls or
mature women, all fell equally to his
lure. When he was 74 a young girl of
18 desired to have a child by him.
Sarah Bernhardt began by hating him
for his Communist politics, but fell for
him within a month of meeting him.
The lovely Judith Gautier insisted on
having an affair with him. Physically,
he thrived on these excesses and
mentally they inspired him to fresh
works. His intellectual fecundity
appeared to be a content of his physical
vitality. From boyhood to extreme
old-age he never ceased writing, and
(Continued on page 35)
FOR MY DAUGHTER
Made from nothing: hud and rose,
kisses, water, mystery:
you who grew inside our need
run, in your discovery,
out of the garden’s folded light,
out of the green, the fountain’s spray,
past the shrubs, the dew-lit ferns,
out to the noise, the street, the day:
and stand, in your astonishment,
beneath the hanging heavy limes
{O my child, O my darling daughter,
summer was full of wars and crimes)
to see the foal, the clown, the doll,
the circus and procession band
march up the street and march away .
And so you turn and take my hand.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.


10ft. 6in. x 9ft.
m
£25196
m
II
m
m
,
tk
1
f s
§ i
4fi%
m^4
■i*
■
m
H
mm
m
■I
V. '-'1
M
*
m
m
ft
K
Sr
SJSP
i
■
■
tea
B
RS
■
1
»
i
■
r:,
y
■
H
M
;*X!
1
K ,
mm
AMR
Hsv •
#
n
H
sss
gill
M
Mmm
m .
: m
: j '
if*
Si
PI
Z *
K 1
Vi*;
9ft. x 7ft. 6m.
10ft. 6in. x 9ft.
iwi
10ft. 6in. x 9ft.
£28191
12ft.
10ft. 6in. x 9ft .
mm
12ft. x 9ft
See carpet squares at
Sydney 9 s lowest
prices during A»H 9 s
Of Famous English Axminsters
Dozens and dozens of jcarpet squares (English Axminster, of course;
at Anthony Horderns’ —Drastically reduced so you can save pounds
and pounds! And wait till you see the quality . . . you’ll, want to
re-carpet all your home! At these prices, you can take your pick from
one of the largest, low-priced selections in Sydney —Florals, Chints,
Tone-on-tone and plains. And don’t forget, Anthony Horderns easy
terms allow you to buy now! Anthony Horderns Carpet Squares
are situated on the 4th floor. Lifts from George and Pitt Streets.
[••/RUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
BOX 2712 G.P.0., SYDNEY. OR PHONE B 0951. T.O.P.S. FOR SERVICE
v *


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3991
Wednesday, August 8, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
RUSSIA BETS BOTH WAYS
THE problem of the Suez Canal lies not in whether
effective action can be taken to deal with the
dictatorial Nasser Government and its plotting, but
in the aftermaths of action.
Nasser has acted in the same manner as Hitler
did in the years 1935-39. He has been in a sort of
hashish-promoted dream since the Bandoeng
Conference, at which he found his glib wordiness
and swashbuckling palatable to those admiring
Asiatics who always relish boastfulness and bluster
and an affectation of strength. He could see himself
as the new leader of the Moslem world.
So far he has been all military swashbuckling
and willingness to take on the world (with, of
course, the weapons which he has begged from
those he threatens), but with a financial defence-
capacity less than Australia’s in money even if his
currency were free. The Egyptian national will to
fight behind him the Australian soldiery of two wars
are well able to measure. His only conflict has seen
him firmly bouncing back off little Israel.
It is not Egypt that needs be feared in the Suez
Canal affair. It becomes plainer and plainer
that, with a united front, Britain, France and the
United States can manage the actual control
question without difficulty. Their financial measures
already applied will settle the economic hash of
Egypt in short order.
The Canal Zone could quickly be reoccupied.
But when it has been done the consequences must
be faced. And the consequences lie not in Egypt
but in the international field. It is a game in which
Moscow, with its usual sharp cunning, has a bit on
both horses.
It is beyond doubt from both Russian and
Egyptian issues of prior publicity that Russia led
the Egyptians to believe that if they could not
obtain the finance and technical assistance for
their £541-million dam-project from the West they
could get it from Moscow.
At the same time, Moscow had too much
cunning merely to make the offer straight-out. It
does not enter on vast projects of that kind in a
foreign land without a proper quid-pro-quo. It
must be in a position to demand that in return for
concessions of the sort Cairo should be turned into
an organising-centre of Communism for Africa, and
particularly for Egypt itself. It must demand that
Egyptian industry be seeded-through with Russian
technicians and politicoes, skilled and cunning in
the use of cell-organising and industrial bullying,
and bent on achieving the same objectives which
were achieved in Czechoslovakia and Hungary: the
creation of a spearhead Communist force strong
and united enough to presently paralyse the country
and take it over for Communism.
To attain a proper bargain, it is necessary to
wait to bargain under the best circumstances.
Therefore let the Egyptians antagonise the West so
as to be helpless. And at the same time let the
West be put in the position of using force or duress
so that it will antagonise the Arab world and enable
Moscow to play on its sympathies and pose as its
friend and protector.
All this is being brought about very skilfully.
First, Shepilov, the Russian Foreign Minister in
a Government which is supposedly holding out
friendly arms to embrace the West, appears with the
usual nice Muscovite tact at the Egyptian functions
to celebrate the friendly departure of the British
troops from Egypt.
He leaves the thought in the mind of the
Egyptian people and Government that if the West
won’t finance the Aswan project or anything else,
Soviet Russia will accommodate its African friends.
He scatters some gifts—Egypt has promises of
atomic laboratories and various technical aid which
have already been made the excuse to turn Cairo
into the greatest centre of Moscow diplomatic
flurry in the Mediterranean. Russian agents are
there in mobs.
Cairo then adopts an easy and insolent take-it-
or-leave-it attitude to the United States in particu-
lar, having mortgaged about £l2O million to buy
arms from the Communist countries. Suddenly the
news comes from Moscow that Moscow has gone
cold on the project. Cairo rushes desperately to
Washington to retrieve the position and finds it is
too late—Washington is not ready to play Moscow’s
game.
Then the Russian Ambassador to Cairo,
apparently, gives some unspecified assurances.
Nasser rushes precipitately in to throw-out the
Western controllers of the Suez Canal, obviously
confident that he will not have to rely on himself
in crisis. On the same day, in the middle of the
ensuing stem action by Britain, France and the
United States, to preserve their rights, Shepilov in
Moscow makes a slithering statement which doesn’t
really mean anything, but which appears to mean
that Russia isn’t interested in financing the dam,
while the Russian Ambassador in Cairo appears
at the Polish Embassy and publicly makes a speech
in which he makes it clear that if the West fails
Nasser in the matter Moscow will go the whole hog.
Moscow Radio follows suit.
Next comes Khrushchev with a smooth and
oily announcement that Russia “favors nationalisa-
tion of the canal,”
In his peroration he added that “Russia was
directly interested in maintaining freedom of
shipping through the canal and felt there was no
cause for alarm.”
All this has happened on the eve of a well-
staged visit by Nasser to Moscow this month. There
he will arrive in proper mind for brainwashing and
reconditioning to suit Moscow policy.
Russia’s main and direct aim is to get the
canal into the hands of the feeble and rowdy and
susceptible Egyptian dictatorship. The next step
is to get the Egyptian Government into the hands,
openly or clandestinely, of the Communist bloc.
Then the rest, both as to Africa and the canal
and traffic from Europe to Asia by air or sea, is
easy. Russia will control the strategic cross-roads
of the world.
In the case of failure there is the alternative.
If there is to be internationalisation of the canal
it will not be in the hands of the present company
but in that of an international authority. And, as
Khrushchev has taken care to announce at the
exactly right moment, “Russia is directly interested
in maintaining freedom of shipping through the
canal.”
Already, while U.K. military measures are
being taken to keep the situation under control
following agreement at the Three Power Conference,
it is foreshadowed that the U.S.S.R. will be included
among the “interested nations” who are to be
invited to plan international control of the canal
in about a fortnight’s time.
It would be difficult to deny Russia a place in
any international authority newly created; almost
as prickly a problem to deny India, Ceylon and
Communist China. No doubt the Arab countries
would be egged on to make demands.
And, as the experience of U.N.O. and the Yalta
and Potsdam Treaty aftermaths have demon-
strated, the power of Russia for disruption of any
organisation of which it is a member in the interests
of the world-revolution is unlimited and bound in
by no scruples.
Round the A.L.P. Sick-bed
JUDGING by the host of diagnosticians crowding
round the bedside of the A.L.P., there’s something
radically wrong with the party, but the trouble is
that the consultants are unable to reach any
unanimity on the nature and cause of the complaint,
let alone the methods to be adopted for the cure.
The Joshua-Keon group felt that the symptoms
pointed to slow-poison, and, in accordance with
sound first-aid principles, they urged that the first
thing to do was to “remove the cause.” But as they
diagnosed the cause as the Communist cause, they
fell foul of an eminent doctor, with the result that
they are now excluded from the sickroom, though
they still claim to be trying to treat the disease by
remote-control.
Dr. Evatt, on the other hand, has been of the
opinion that surgery is called for, with perhaps a
little drastic purging to follow. His present claim
is that the amputations which were carried out, if
not on his orders, then at least while he was
administering the anaesthetic, have effected a cure
and that the body politic of the party is now
purified and regenerated. Brother Clive, as one
of the parts amputated—though by a different
college of surgeons—is not so sure. His feeling, as
expressed to the press, is that there’s a lot going
on inside the body that should be revealed to the
searching light of day. X-ray photos by Clive are
still awaited. Further, he has hinted darkly that it
might be in the public interest to investigate some
of the body’s sources of sustenance.
Cahill himself has been very slow to recognise
the signs of ill-health. Only four months ago, on
the election-platform, he was -vowing that the
patient was as sound as a bell, but in recent weeks
he has been acting more like one who has heard
the bell toll. The N.S.W. State executive of the
party, being a makeshift, compromise body,
naturally finds it difficult to reach agreement on
the patient’s condition. This probably explains
why they have suggested calling-in consultants
from overseas.
F. E. Chamberlain, Federal president of the
A.L.P., issued a written diagnosis on the ills of
the party a few months ago. He said that too many
political careerists had found their way into the
party for the sole purpose of getting a seat in
Parliament; that through too many people accept-
ing “Labor” without understanding its policy,
unworthy persons had been helped to get party-
endorsement. To cure itself the party would have
to revise its methods of choosing candidates and
push on with a policy based on the Socialist
objective. Since then, in debates in the Federal
Parliament, men like Ward, Clyde Cameron,
Pollard and Calwell have let no opportunity slip
by of showing that they are still Socialists at heart,
despite all the soft-pedalling of recent years. Dr.
Evatt, too, in his determination to stay on-side
with the Left-wing, has forgotten that only a couple
of years ago he was promising Big Business sub-
stantial tax-concessions; he now rants about excess
profits and the evils of capitalism along with the
rest of them. It would never do for the “workers”
to think that he was one who joined the party from
unworthy motives!
Professor H. W. Arndt, of Canberra University
College, is the latest to attempt a detailed diagnosis
of the A.L.P. It took the form of a Chifley
Memorial Lecture at the Melbourne University.
Although he doesn’t use the term, his finding could
be summed-up as “hardening of the arteries.”
Arndt points out that the tremendous economic
and political lessons of the past 20 years have made
virtually no impact on “Labor’s” thinking. The
change from depression to almost continuous full-
employment, with inflation the chief enemy; the
change from a rudimentary system of social-
services to a largely complete one; the demonstra-
tion in Britain that nationalisation is not a cure-all;
the revealing of Communism in its true colors; “all
these changes have as yet hardly caused a ripple
on the surface of traditional Labor thinking in this
country.”
Himself a “Labor” man and a great admirer
of Chifley, Arndt says that the only fresh thinking
in the party in recent years has come from the Right,
and has therefore been condemned out-of-hand by
the Left; —
When a party clings unthinkingly to policies
which no longer necessarily serve as the best means
of advancing; when it refuses to develop new
policies to deal with new problems; when it takes
refuge from worn-out platforms in day-to-day
opportunism, it can no longer call itself progres-
sive merely because its formal principles once
implied drastic change.
“The Bulletin” has long been insisting that
the diehards of the “Labor” party are now the true
conservatives of Australia, clinging jealously to the
traditions handed down from the days when the
party was in its swaddling-clothes and trying to
apply to present-day problems philosophies and
dogma framed for a society that no longer exists.
Professor Arndt has come to the same conclusion:
Paradoxically, it is the Left that has become
the stronghold of conservatism within the Labor
movement, content to repeat the old slogans,
fearful of departures from the beliefs of its fathers.
He lists several examples: In approaching the
biggest problem, inflation, “Labor” has done little
more than advocate controls which it knows to be
impracticable and make political capital out of the
unpopularity of other measures adopted. On bank-
ing and monetary policy since Chifley’s death: its
sole contribution has been to demand cheap money
and condemn credit-restrictions. On productivity:
resistance to all proposals and half-hearted talk of
nationalisation. Migration (which it started, thanks
to Calwell, not its present policy-framers): support,
but increasingly grudging.
Arndt considers the present tax-structure
inequitable, but deplores “Labor’s” bow-and-arrow
attacks on it. “In place of ill-considered proposals
for excess-profits tax and abolition of sales-tax,
they should concentrate on taxes on personal
income, expenditure and wealth.” He believes
better provision should be made for the aged and
for a “more adequate health service,” but admits
the enormous cost his ideal would involve.
This cannot be financed by cuts in the con-
sumption of the rich—the rich are too few and
the old and the sick too many—and it should not
be financed by cutting-down the nation’s saving,
which is ' urgently needed for other purposes.
Since all will have to share in the cost, everything
should be done to keep the cost within reasonable
bounds.
Urging the party to take the inflation problem “as
seriously as it has always taken deflation and
unemployment,” he stresses that higher living-
standards can come only through increased
production.
Finally, Labor should recognise, and educate
the people to recognise, that there is, in the long
run, no more certain road to higher living-
standards than that of setting aside a high propor-
tion of current output so as to make possible a
high rate of investment in improvements in the
country’s productive capacity.
Arndt’s diagnosis of the condition of the ailing
body of “Labor” is the soundest that has so far
come from within the party, but his prescription of
more work and fewer slogans doesn’t stand much
chance of acceptance while Evatt, Ward, Cameron
and Chamberlain are in charge of the sickroom.


“HEY! IT WON’T ‘OPEN, SESAME!’ ANY MORE!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Russia and the Soft-shells
The carefully-thought-out Russian “soft-
war” is having its effects already on world
defence. In Europe the result is about
as evident as in Australia, where the
“Labor” policy for defence of Australia
has fallen almost into line with our only
possible enemy’s policy.
Moscow suavity and persuasion has had
so much effect on Sir Anthony Eden
that when he spoke in the Commons on
European security a week ago the cheers
all came from the Labor party.
He has come to the conclusion that
the hydrogen-bomb is the “ultimate
weapon” in destructive-power in the
arsenal of war, “since it had power to
destroy the human race, and nobody,
presumably, could see any advantage in
trying to do more than that.”
He said it was inconceivable that a
modern global war would take place
without the global use of atomic and
hydrogen weapons with all their conse-
quences, and “it was that knowledge
which worked so strongly for peace
today.” What encouraged him was the
assurance that “the Russian leaders
accepted, as the British Government
accepted, the final destructive effect of
nuclear power.”
He thinks that the possession of such
weapons by both sides “would compel
some military re-thinking on both sides.”
Nobody used atom - bombs in
Korea. Nobody is using them in North
Burma, which the Chinese are invading,
for the simple reason that crowded
peoples like the Russians and Chinese
don’t want them used on them. They
don’t even want to use them.
They would prefer to carry on a war
in which the resources are simple and
inexpensive and contrived without the
use of heavy-industry and transport and
in which they have their expendable pro-
jectiles ready-made and overabundant —•
the bullet-headed ordinary Asian.
However, Sir Anthony Eden is shaken
by the barrage of soft-soap which has
been falling round him. He wants a
“reappraisal of the strategic needs of
today with our allies and within our
alliances;”
He thinks it quite feasible that the
Russians may have abandoned their old
ideas of world-conquest and come to the
conclusion that “they could not obtain
their objective by military means with-
out the total destruction of everything
they are trying to create in their own
land and their own destruction.”
Amid cheers from the Silvermans and
their kind, and a stillness on the Gov-
ernment benches, he announced that
“behind the Iron Curtain there is a
growing opinion which would not take
kindly to a return to Stalinism,” and “we
in the West would make a mistake if we
did not accept this and understand that
it was quite a normal process in revolu-
tion.”
He seems to be ignorant that behind
the Silken Curtain of blandishments and
suavity the age-old Communist policy is
being carried forward, the Kremlin’s
literature for the consumption of its own
workers and plotters following the same
relentless line it has always followed ;
the line which makes it clear that demo-
cratic systems must be destroyed, if
necessary by force, and that concert with
other nations is only possible through
the establishment of •.. . .atorships of the
proletariat.
Russia is still determined to conquer
the world, preferably by internal sabo-
tage of free-enterprise countries, through
traitorism and subversion. The resolu-
tion of the Russian Communist Party
Central Committee on Stalinism issued
on June 30 says:
There can be no doubt that the Com-
munist and workers’ parties of all countries
will raise still higher the glorious Marxist
banner of proletarian internationalisation.
The Soviet people are naturally proud that
our homeland was the first to pave the
way to Socialism. Now that Socialism has
become a world system no malicious
slanderous outburst of our enemies can stop
the invincible, historical march of mankind
towards Communism.
Not even war. Perhaps Sir Anthony will
have learned that before the Suez
incident is over.
Social-security and Loaf
A flaw in the social-service regulations
was revealed in Melbourne City Court
when a casual worker, charged with vag-
rancy, said he had been out of work for
five weeks, and hadn’t applied for social-
service benefits until his purse was very
light and had then been told that, although
the department had no work for him,
social-service payments wouldn’t start
for a fortnight.
The regulations, framed, no doubt,
on the presumption that anybody ought
to have enough saved to keep himself
for a fortnight (which is reasonable
enough), actually encourage the loafer
to register before he has looked for a
job.
The magistrate tossed out the case, hav-
ing found someone (the Salvos, of course)
to provide accommodation for the defen-
dant until his payments began.
Retired Jurists
“Collins St.” : There’s a revivifying
quality in the crisp Melbourne climate’ 5
that inspirits noted jurists when they
pluck themselves from the dusty High
Court Bench. I recall Sir Isaac Isaacs
in particular skipping around Melbourne
streets for years, fractionally ahead of
murderous vehicles, and finally dying not
much short of the century—in bed.
Sir John Latham, ex-C.J., is positively
blooming. More is heard from him now
in a few months than in all his years on
the Ministerial or Opposition benches in
Canberra or on the High Court. I never
would have guessed the didactic young
lawyer I heard making his first precise
speeches when standing for Camberwell
would have developed into the gregarious
and engagingly loquacious public figure
he now has become.
In less than a year he has now spoken
on extradition; memorials (not enough
of ’em); political promises (piecrust);
Parliamentary privilege (lay-off it);
social welfare; peace, tolerance and
intellectual freedom; longer terms for
Parliaments (they can’t get work done
for fear of the next election); Common-
wealth control of State funds ; litterbugs ;
racketeers; hot music (not enough);
Section 92 of the Constitution (“I’m
ashamed of the money I’ve made out of
it”); and, above all, arbitration (a five-
man commission on it needed).
He gets around the nation, writes
for the newspapers on serious subjects
and chairs various associations aimed at
broadening the national outlook, and
even, by thunder, goes to the races, an
adventure that would have shocked the
young barrister and Camberwell M.P.,
the unbending pillar of his church.
Our Attitude to China
“Mugga Way” : Australia at the moment
is one of the several battlegrounds on
which the propaganda struggle for China
is being fought. Our influence in world
councils is recognised as important, and
for the present we are also a member of
the Security Council. Therefore the
opinion of Australia on China’s future
role and on its administration and
prospects is rightly considered of sufficient
importance to warrant skilled attention.
We need not flatter ourselves, of course,
that we have been singled-out for this
purpose. Similar campaigns are in
progress in most parts of the world, and
there is no doubt of their effects. Our
real difficulty is to assess the truth of the
representations on both sides.
It must be admitted that Communist
China has scored some victories here.
A trade-commissioner has been impressed
by his recent visit, and believes that trade
between Australia and the mainland of
China can be restored steadily. A delega-
tion of some distinguished non-
Communists has been impressed with
most of what they saw and heard, and
was convinced that questions were
answered openly, fully and honestly.
Journalists have found little to criticise
and much to praise in conditions in
China, in the great drive for industrialisa-
tion now in progress, in improvements in
health and education.
No single picture obtained by any
visitor can be complete, but a succession
of pictures is being presented to Aus-
tralians which must have a cumulative
effect on public thinking about China.
There was even a unanimous statement
by the Commonwealth Prime Ministers in
London —and the unanimity is important.
They expressed the hope that the relaxa-
tion of tension noticeable in regard to
Formosa would continue, and added that
peaceful settlements of the problems in
this area were “imperative for stability
in the Far East and for removing the
dangers of conflict which would frustrate
the hopes of peace.”
There are hints that Australian recogni-
tion of Communist China may follow the
Presidential election in the United States,
and that Washington itself may move
in the same direction. Against all this
it is hard to find arguments in answer, but
in a recent speech the Nationalist Chinese
Minister to Canberra, Dr. Chen Tai Chu,
supplied some facts which deserve
consideration.
Dr. Chen analysed the character of the
Chinese Communist regime and Com-
munist strategy in the global struggle, and
reminded his hearers, the Rotary club at
Temora (N.S.W.), of the significance of
Free China. He pointed out that Com-
munist China was a regime based on
war; he declared that it had grown
corrupt as a result of rule by deceit and
dishonesty, and he asserted that there
was growing resistance against it by the
Chinese people.
He spoke of its maintenance by terror,
fear, and a new type of despotism
approaching general slavery. He warned
Australians not to be taken in by its
attempt to distract attention with visiting
delegations, cultural representatives, and
ostensible display of peace. It was vital
to remember, he said, that the goals and
the conflicts remain unchanged. “Com-
munist China will, whenever expedient,
continue to promote revolution, violence
and intrigue abroad and to apply military
pressure in South-East Asia.”
Dr. Chen pointed out once more that
recognition of Peking would signify
political acceptance, without causing the
Communist bloc to modify its over-all
objectives and thus diminish the cause of
the tensions in Asia. Most of the 14
million Chinese now overseas owed
allegiance and loyalty to the Republic of
China, and once Communist control on
the mainland of China was recognised by
the Western Powers the Communists
would be handed “the largest potential
fifth-column in the world.”
Australian TV-programmes
“D.”: Apparently it’s to be the old
story of banishment to the breadline for
the creative and artistic Australian with
TV, too. At the invitation of Hector
Crawford, the radio-entrepreneur, an
Australian trying to get a footing into
his native market, I have seen a “dry”
rehearsal of a ballet series.
What Crawford and his Australian
competitors have to meet is American
dumping that would shame the Japanese.
Half-hour TV ballet-programmes that
cost 60,000 dollars (£27,000) to produce
are being offered at £3OO to Australian
sponsors, or £l5O each for Sydney and
Melbourne.
The Australian producers must there-
fore put up a good ballet-show for much
less than £3OO, because the American
programmes are very good indeed.
Crawford has signed up Peggy Sager,
who is at least one of the six most
technically gifted ballerinas in the world,
and Paul Hammond and some talented
young kittens, but they will have to dance
without decor, costumes or orchestra.
The Crawford effort, a backstage ballet-
sketch to phonograph-music, was absorb-
ing ; but it is sad to contemplate such
handicaps for the dancers who raised the
National Ballet Company under Joyce
Graeme and Borovansky’s company up to
world standard. In the tough, com-
mercial TV scramble, there won’t be
anything to correspond with the Bulletin
to give the locals a fair go.
Umpire Takes All
In the contest N.S.W. Pubs v. N.S.W.
Clubs, the provisional winner seems to
be the umpire. The clubs are to keep
their poker-machines, legalised by special
Act of Parliament, but the privilege will
cost them between £1 million and £l£
million a year, depending on which
faction wins the caucus argument on
rates. The only reasons advanced for
legalising the machines (illegal elsewhere
in Australia) are that they have been
tolerated for years, and that many clubs
would be bankrupted if abolition
followed recent licensing-court decisions.
Both statements are sound enough,
but neither of them is an argument for
turning the one-armed bandits into auto-
matic revenue-agents, and the move isn’t
made any more commendable by the
hypocritical subterfuge of pretending
that the proceeds are to be earmarked
for hospitals, which already have to
carry the odium of the State Lottery.
The tax gives rise to uneasy suspicions
that the last has not been heard of the
Pubs v. Clubs war. Legalising the
machines on the grounds that club-
members are merely playing with their
own money is one thing ; taxing them
for the privilege of playing is another.
With the tax once established, how long
will it be before shrewd counsellors
suggest that machines in beer-gardens
and pub-lounges could also be good
revenue-collectors for the Treasury,
naturally with the pious addendum that
the hospitals could do with the money?
And if the suggestion is made, how long
will the Cahill Government, with its
known admiration for the two great
industries, booze and betting, resist it?
Acoustics
Melburnians who subscribed £250,000
for the rebuilding of the University’s
Wilson Hall have been uneasy about their
cultural investment since Professor
Arnold Toynbee, the British historian
who delivered the Dyason lectures, was
hardly heard by many (some of whom
walked out) at his first lecture ; was more
or less harnessed to the mike at his
second lecture and heard by all 1420;
and failed to get his voice across at the
last lecture.
The acoustics of the hall'have been
criticised, which is unfair to Vivian Tay-
lor, the architectural authority on
acoustics who was consulted on the
building.
An idiosyncratic speaker—Prof. Toyn-
bee packs his punches in few and some-
times unusual phrases, teeters on his
feet and drops his voice—isn’t the
standard on which to judge the acoustical
properties of a great hall designed
primarily as a ceremonial chamber.
Wilson Hall has 500,000 cubic feet.
Melbourne Town Hall has 1,000,000. Its
acoustics were condemned, too, when it
was first opened, though its designers had
to compromise the acoustics in a hall
that could be used for an orchestral con-
cert, a ball, Bach, a choir, rallies and all
the rest.
The Sydney protagonists of a National
Opera House had better make up their
minds that they won’t hear opera per-
fectly if they also want to hear Bach with
clarity.
Sacked!
The dismissal of Mr. V. R. Creighton
from his position as chairman of the
Queensland Land Administration Board
is surely one of the most extraordinary
events in Australian Parliamentary
history. And if it goes no further it
certainly marks a new era in Australian
theories of responsible government.
Mr. Creighton was the administrative head
of the Lands Department and removable only
by resolution of Parliament, a provision which
advertises Parliament’s assumption of the extent
to which he should be a free agent in safe-
guarding the State’s great landholding, most of
which is under lease.
According to his story told at the Bar of
Parliament last week, Mr. Creighton developed
certain suspicions not strongly enough supported
to make specific charges against his Minister,
but enough to cause him great uneasiness. He
relayed these suspicions and the bases of them
to a Mr. Williams, Northern Secretary of the
A.W.U., who had been a fellow-member with
him of a royal commission on land-settlement,
the findings of which “subsequently became a
major part of the land-settlement policy of this
Government.” It was, he said, “surely not an
unnatural thing in the circumstances to go to
Mr. Williams when I thought the policy of the
Government was being departed from or about
to be departed from.”
It was at least unconventional, but then, as
subsequent proceedings have shown, Queens-
land seems to be a very unconventional State.
Mr. Creighton said at the Bar of the House
that “apart from the actual information com-
municated by me to Mr. Williams, the great
part of the information which I communicated
to him consisted of the expression of opinions
and suspicions held by me and the inferences
which I drew from such information.”
Mr. Williams brought the matter before the
A.W.U., and it was published in “The Worker."
The general secretary of the A.W.U., Mr.
Bukowski, was so alarmed by what he was
told that he demanded the right to appear before
the Bar of Parliament to voice his suspicions and
make Parliament the repository of the informa-
tion. He was refused.
It was only when a Liberal Federal Senator
mentioned “The Worker” charges in the
Federal Parliament that the Government acted,
but primarily to produce an inquiry into other
matters which the Government knew that the
Federal accuser, Senator lan Wood, would have
great difficulty in proving.
Before a royal commission the judge found
the Minister for Lands, Mr. Foley, guilty of
gross favoritism to help a friend in - several
cases, of using a flimsy pretext to break a
contract on two occasions between another
friend and purchasers of a large estate, of
asking a bribe (for party funds) in one case
which involved corrupt conduct, and of carrying
his favoritism to the point of corruption m
others.
After this, the guilty Minister left the
Ministry, apparently without a stain on his
character, so far as the Government majority
was concerned. But the unconventional chair-
man of the Land Board was suspended for
having opened the whole matter up, on the
ground that he “systematically deceived the
Government and Parliament and failed in his
duty of loyalty to the Queen.” And that “the facts
and inferences charged that he was guilty of a
breach of trust and confidence reposed in him
as permanent head of the department and of
treachery to her Majesty’s Ministers....
Mr. Creighton was not tried before a tribunal
on these charges. The Government appar-
ently thought in that matter that discretion was
the better part of valor. . ,
The royal commissioner had not been askeo
to examine Mr. Creighton’s behavior. He had
o Continued, on next page)


commented on it informally. But he had also
commented on the fact that in some of the
cases affecting the relationships between R. S.
White and Foley, the Minister whom he found
guilty of corruption, the ultimate decisions had
been made by Cabinet on Foley’s advice. And
he was debarred from coming to a conclusion
because Cabinet and the Premier showed no
disposition to come before the commission and
say exactly what advice Foley gave Cabinet.
Thus his Honor could not make a finding as to
whether Foley had been dishonest or not in
supporting his recommendations.
Mr. Creighton said at the Bar, when defend-
ing himself, after it had been moved that
he be expelled form the public service:
If Parliament condemns me....its verdict
will inevitably condemn the Premier and the
mover and seconder of the motion for my
dismissal, all of whom were undoubtedly
aware either of part or the whole of the
matters which formed the subject of my
correspondence with Mr. Williams and
none of whom reported them to this Parlia-
ment. It was proved in evidence before
the royal commission, and not denied in
any particular by the Premier, that in July,
1955, he was fully informed by the A.W.U.
full executive of the matters which I _
discussed with Mr. Williams. The undoubted
evidence of Mr. Bukowski and Mr. Williams
is that he expressed concern at the matters
reported to him and promised a top-level
inquiry Whatever my duty to report
these matters to Parliament, it cannot be
denied that the Premier was under an even
greater and higher duty.
He charged the Premier that, “as Parliament
knows, he did not take any steps whatever to
have the matters properly investigated, and
that in the following month he designated them
to the House as malicious gossip”; “as Parlia-
ment also knows, he corroborated and supported
Mr. Foley in his false statements to the House
that no application had been made by the
lessees of Landavra for concessions under the
Land Act. It was proved before the royal
commission by documents that such application
had been made and that it was the Premier
himself who brought this application to Cabinet
and set in motion the investigation of such
claims for special' consideration.”
Mr. Creighton went to the Bar of the House
knowing, as he said, that his defence would be
unavailing.
A few days before caucus had met, with the
ex-Minister for Lands, Mr. Foley, taking part
in its proceedings, and without hearing Mr.
Creighton or any evidence, had decided that
he should be sacked by Parliament. It should
be said that the persons who came to this
decision mostly knew nothing whatever about
the matter save what they were told by Foley s
friends in the Cabinet or what they had read.
Their action was more monstrous in that they
were not at the time they made their decision
members of Parliament, not having been
sworn-in. . , „ ' ,
But they issued their impudent ukase to the
press, and Parliament duly carried out their
edict. It is doubtful whether their proceedings
as a “caucus” were privileged, but their
procedure illustrates how far Parliamentary
principles have been abrogated. Queenslanders
as a whole took it for granted that what
they decided Parliament would do.
A much more specific denial than was given
by the Premier of the charges made against
him at the Bar is needed if the newspaper-
reports of the debate are full and accuiate.
He merely brushed them aside as ridiculous.
It is reported that the A.W.U. and the Q.C.E.
intend to go much farther in opening-up the
whole of the issue, and it is to be hoped that
On its behavior to date the Gair Government
is unfit to govern a decent State, and the
Government party, which is retaining in his
Parliamentary seat and supporting a Minister
adjudged corrupt, and which has wrecked the
career of his main accuser, is unfit to control
any Parliament in a State which values its
reputation.
POLITICAL POINTS
Is it true that poker-machines are to
be installed in the N.S.W. Legislative
Council, Sydney’s most exclusive club?
• •
Although America has joined with
Britain and France in convening a con-
ference on the Suez Canal, Uncle Sam is
reported to be less keen than his two
partners on the proposed international
control of the ditch. That’s not surpris-
ing. After all, he does own Panama.
• •
U.S. long-range concern for Panama
should not obscure the likelihood that
weakness over Suez could easily be the
cue for the nationalisation of Middle East
oilfields by the Arab countries concerned.
Hints of such a move have already
appeared in the Russian Army newspaper,
“Red Star,” and the action of Russia
last week in suddenly dropping long-
sustained claims to oilfields in northern
Persia seems to tie-in suspiciously with
such a policy.
• •
Federal executive of the A.L.P. is to
hold a special meeting in September.
Who’s for the axe this time?
• •
Criticising Australia House and the
appointment of Eric Harrison to succeed
T. W. White as High Commissioner in
London, Eddie Graham, Minister for
Agriculture in N. S. Wales, says the job
shouldn’t go to “someone in the autumn
of his political career.” Well, talking of
seasons, the two most recent N.S.W.
Agent-Generals, both Ministerial col-
leagues of Graham, weren’t exactly
appointed in their early spring.
9 9
Indiscretion is a more serious offence
than corruption! This must be the
opinion of the Queensland Parliamentary
“Labor” Party; it has sacked Creighton,
yet still retains Foley as a member of
the party. But if Foley isn’t to be sacked
for corruption, surely by “Labor’s” own
standards he should be sacked for the
indiscretion of being found out!
• •
In defiance of the State Government
and the Trades and Labor Council, mem-
bers of 21 unions employed at N.S.W.
Electricity Commission powerhouses went
on strike on Monday because they con-
sidered they were entitled to add the
August Bank Holiday to their list of days-
off. To be consistent they’ll now have
to line-up for the Bakers’ holiday, the
Butchers’ picnic and all the other special
award holidays.
• •
N.S.W. State executive of the A.L.P. —
the new-look one —is urging the Federal
executive to try to organise a meeting of
the Labor parties of the British Common-
wealth, to be held in Canberra. The
proposed agenda consists mainly of
criticism of the misdeeds of “conserva-
tive” Governments throughout the British
Commonwealth. Three of the crimes for
which these Governments are to be
castigated are their failure to reduce
defence expenditure; failure to meet the
needs of underprivileged peoples in the
Middle East and South-East Asia ; failure
to grant self-determination to peoples
clearly capable of self-government.
Ail three points must be read in the
light of “Labor’s” policy of opposition to
the use of Australian troops in Malaya.
This makes two cabled speeches of British
Labor leaders rather interesting. Shin-
well, who wants Britain’s defence expendi-
ture reduced, suggested in the Commons
that Australia should take over the entire
cost of defence measures in South-East
Asia. Gaitskell supports Eden’s moves
on the Suez Canal crisis completely. No
Australian “Labor” spokesman has so far
said a word on Suez, but on recent form
they should be well on the side of Nasser.
The “Tribune” is.
• •
Revenue from poker-machines, says
Cahill, will be earmarked for hospitals.
Askin, Deputy-leader of the N.S.W.
Opposition, suggests it should go to
mental hospitals, as this would enable
those who played the machines to provide
for their future.
Winneke, Q.C., Vic. Solicitor-General,
not Smithers, Director of Finance, is the
man chosen to meet and word-up Premier
Bolte on the rush air-trip to Canberra
from Perth, where Bolte lands after his
tour, in a day or two. Winneke is the
Boltes’ legal brain. It looks as if Vic-
toria expects something doing in capital-
issues control and price-control at the
Premiers’ Conference.
• •
Salesmen from the Victorian Railways
are out in the Riverina announcing
freight-cuts of £1 a bale on N.S.W.-
grown wool. Road-hauliers are cutting
into one of the few remaining profitable
country freight-lines, and, because of the
floods, country traffic will be lessened.
Next wheat-yield is expected to be light,
and growers will have less to spend on
rail-drawn goods.
• •
Rylah, Acting Vic. Premier, on toll-
roads :
If highways are rebuilt, a charge on
motorists may be made to pay the rebuild-
ing cost and upkeep The stage has been
reached where something must be done to
build highways capable of carrying today’s
heavy fast-moving traffic.
Whatever happened to the petrol tax?
• ©
“Stromlo”: Officially announced that
while making a gravity-survey in the
south-west Pacific H.M. submarine
Telemachus adopted a zigzag course
between Wellington and Tonga “to
"JUST US" IN QUEENSLAND
embrace a large area of this important
region.” The explanation is reassuring;
without it there would have been reason
to suspect it was due to the crew having
embraced some of the delights of
Wellington.
• •
“Mugga Way” : Apparently trying to
out-Cahill “Joe,” the A.C.T. Advisory
Council is recommending that Govern-
ment houses in the A.C.T. should be
sold to tenants (mostly Government
employees) on a “no-deposit” basis. The
present provision, under which hundreds
of homes have been sold since the
Menzies Government took office, is for a
minimum deposit of 10 per cent., and a
maximum outstanding balance of £2750.
Speakers said £177,000 a year was spent
on maintenance of the 4786 unsold houses
in 1955-56. It was suggested that sale of
half these houses at an average of £2750,
plus saving of half the total maintenance
costs, would realise £365,250, which
would be enough to build 90 new houses.
There’s no indication that the Govern-
ment is convinced, or likely to be.
• •
An Indian journalist reports that
financial experts from the satellite coun-
tries Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary,
Bulgaria and East Germany are to confer
in Moscow on the subject of floating a
loan to Egypt. Nasser had better not
count much on that. It’s doubtful if
the satellites could finance the purchase
of a packet of dirty postcards, let alone
the Aswan dam.
“Wusslean”: A draft bill to establish
“a national tourist authority to stimulate
Victoria’s tourist trade” will be con-
sidered by the Victorian Cabinet. One
method that might well be explored is
the grading of hotels and guest-houses.
On current standards three classifications
—good, bad and indifferent —would be
adequate. If the authority,, in course of
time, found a fourth grade—excellent —
to be warranted, Victoria would have no
trouble in attracting tourists.
• «
Casey wants the Royal Empire Society
to change its name to Royal Common-
wealth Society because in the minds of a
great many Asian members of the
Commonwealth the words “Empire” and
“colonialism” are “practically synonym-
ous.” Maybe so, but why is it always we
who have to bend over backwards to
avoid offending the feelings of other
peoples? After all, English is our
language and its words mean what we
intend them to mean, not what people
with other mother-tongues imagine them
to mean.
• •
Wheatgrowers who look for enlighten-
ment in the announcement by Acting
Trade Minister McMahon on the new
International Wheat Agreement won t
find much. McMahon said the exact
figure for Australia’s export-quota wasn’t
known. Under the agreement as
negotiated the quota was 30-mflhon
bushels out of a total of 303 million, but
some importing countries had not yet
ratified it, and thus the total guaranteed
quantities would be less than 303 million.
He went on that
the extent of the reduction will not be
known until the position of countries which
have not yet ratified, but are expected to
do so, is clarified. Accordingly the Inter-
national Wheat Council, which administers
the agreement, has deferred until its next
meeting in December the adjustment of
individual exporters’ quotas which will be
required to bring the total figure for
exporters into balance with the total quotas
of importing countries.
It’s as simple as that.
• •
Quorn (S.A.), by-passed by the new
Commonwealth railway-line from Port
Augusta to Brachina and suffering the
loss of its railway-workshops, received a
shot in the arm last week with the news
of a discovery of black-coal 20 miles
north of the town. S.A. Mines Depart-
ment geologists are examining the find,
and there is so far little indication of its
extent. If large-scale workable seams
exist in the area the whole industrial
future of South Australia will be trans-
formed.
• •
N. S. Wales Egg Board is promising
that by this time next year eggs will be
delivered in cartons. If it expects house-
wives to greet this news with three hearty
cheers it will be disappointed. Packaging
is a costly business nowadays. That’s
why the bring-your-own-jar shops are
doing such a good trade in such lines
as jam, honey, peanut-butter and tomato-
sauce.
“Bookie’s Dog”: Intetesting to specu-
late on the future of racing in Australia.
Current balance-sheet of the A.J.C. shows
a net loss of £ll,OOO. During the same
period the Government by divers levies
gained £750,000 from meetings conducted
by the club. All Governments regard
racing as a milch-cow, but few politicians
possess the solicitude a farmer bears for
his milking cows. Poor pastures yield
little milk. Cahill apparently intends to
irrigate the barren fields of the A.J.C. by
legalising off-the-course betting and
channelling some of the money back to
the racing clubs. One gets a picture of
the members having a jolly social day at
Randwick undisturbed by the raucous
shouts of bookmakers or the congestion
of the mob who are busy emptying their
pockets at the local s.-p. More likely
racing will die of apathy.
• •
Indonesia has repudiated the debts to
Holland taken over from the former
Netherlands East Indies Government by
agreement with the Netherlands in 1949.
The justification advanced is that most of
the debt was offset by the cost of the war
“waged against us by the Netherlands.”
If that is true, wasn’t it equally true in
1949, when the agreement was signed?,
• •
“In the ACT”: The A.C.T. Advisory
Council (a body often heard but seldom
heeded by Ministers) has supported a
move by the Canberra Historical Society
for March 12 to be recognised as
“Canberra Day.” This is the anniversary
of the original naming ceremony. There’s
no reason to suspect that the rest of Aus-
tralia will celebrate the occasion as a
joyful holiday.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
pjOUR films showing in Sydney at the
moment are “The Man with the
Golden Arm,” “The Man in the Grey
Flannel Suit,” “The Man Who Never
Was,” and “The Man Who Knew Too
Much.” All it needs to complete the
season is “A Woman of No Importance.”
—“S.M.S.”
* ❖ *!♦
“Sparks”: A fiver seems a bit steep
for a television-licence, but, as Postmaster-
General Davidson pointed out, the one
licence covers any number of TV-sets
kept by the licensee at his home. So it
works out pretty cheap in the long run.
I’ll be able to instal a TV-set, at £2OO-odd
a time, in every room, including the bath-
room and laundry, which means about
nine receivers—and all for a fiver licence-
fee.
-ijt- ij*
“Narumee”: We hadn’t seen the Pals
for some weeks, so when I met-Mrs. Pal
she had plenty to retail: she and Junior
had had ’flu, and Junior had had mumps ;
a new house was being built next-door,
and the builders had dumped a load of
bricks in their driveway, whereupon Mr.
Pal had remonstrated to no avail, and
finally called the police;" the family
opposite had got a house at last, and
the one in the flat above was returning
to England; Mr. Pal’s office had been
redecorated in three shades of blue,
which hadn’t made it seem any warmer
when the building was without heat or
light for the coldest fortnight of the
winter; she and Mr. Pal were attending
a much-publicised ball that very even-
ing ; Mr. Pal had insisted she see the
doctor about the headaches that pros-
trated her. Later, when my husband
came back, he mentioned having seen
Mr. Pal in the lunch-hour. “Did he tell
you all their news?” I asked. “Yes.
They’ve lost their cat. It went out one
night and didn’t come back,” said the
man who surely shoiild have edited one
of our dailies.
❖ 1 *l* *
“Becks”: What’s all this fuss about
“the first divorce-case to be heard in a
“Narumee”: Raising of the school-
leaving age has been suggested as a
remedy for juvenile delinquency, but
shortage of teachers and accommodation
is already acute, and overlarge classes
with loose discipline are not a cure but
a cause. What about lowering the age
for National Service and lengthening the
inadequate training-period? And why
not give the girls six months’ Nasho as
much-needed hospital-aides?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Loki”: Citizens of Gahd’s own
country are noted hustlers, and the chief-
engineer of a large American construc-
tion company operating in Australia is
apparently no exception. Asked by a
reporter from a Sydney daily whether
his firm could build a 1212-mile six-lane
highway linking Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne and at what cost: “Sure, we
could build the road. But I guess I
couldn’t quote really accurate figures
right off. Ring me back in five minutes.”
Sure enough, five minutes later the
reporter had a quote of £541,194,000 for
the road, including all bridges, and was
informed that construction could be
completed in just under three years. As
Shakspeare said:
Farewell, thou art too dear for our possessing
But, like enough, thou know’st thy estimate I
+*♦
“Geep”: Tinned haggis is being
exported to Australia from its native
heath. I know not the taste of the haggis,
only its origin, and before opening a tin
I should have to consume much more
of another product of the same country
than is, alas, my wont.
<3* >l*
“0.F.”: Not so many years ago the
houses in Perth’s Roe-street (now called
Railway-parade, I believe) had a free
plug from a garage which stood behind
them. There was a large neon sign along
the roof of the garage, and Josies’s
Bungalow and similar establishments were
bathed in the rosy glow from the 6ft. red
letters which announced “All Night
Service.”
❖ *Z* *
“Margreth”: Latest game in R.A.A.F.
messes is called “Dead ants.” When
someone calls “Dead ants!” everybody
is expected to flop on his back on the
floor, arms and knees up, like a dead ant.
Last man down has to shout. When the
C.O. visited a certain mess he was
initiated into the game, and though not
the last man down, he nearly was. A
few nights later a V.I.P. visited the mess.
All was very formal until a young officer
shouted “Dead ants!” Down went the
C.O. in a flash, flat on his back, arms and
knees up—the only man down.
“Wusslean”: Punishing a motorist for
leaving ignition-keys in his car (B.
25/7/’56) seems to derive from the
Erewhonian notion that it is a criminal
offence to be unfortunate. Readers of
Butler’s satire will remember the trial
of the young man charged with having
been swindled out of large property by
his guardian. The lad’s plea that he was
young, inexperienced, greatly in awe of
his guardian and without independent
advice was sternly rebuked by the judge,
who said that persons who outraged the
moral sense of their friends by such
indiscretions must expect to suffer
accordingly, and inflicted a severe
sentence.
♦♦♦ *
“Sixtoes”: Woke to more than the
usual clatter of cups in the hotel passage
and knew that Maggie was still suffering
from a late night. Heard her crash into
the first room and through the paper-
thin wall caught a sleepy, “Good morn-
ing, no sugar.” From Maggie, “It’s in.
Don’t stir it.” My turn came. “Weak,
tea, Maggie, please.” I got no change.
“This won’t hurt you,” she snapped.
From the next room came a voice from
under the covers, “No tea, thanks.” “Well,
that’s a good thing,” said Maggie, in a
brighter voice. “That’s one cup I won’t
have to wash.” I suppose it wouldn’t be
so bad if you got it for nothing.
“The Red Dam”: During the early
’twenties the average hall-piano was like
the rare specimen you still find
occasionally in outback pubs or Sydney
concert-platforms. Hard to play, harder
to listen to. Playing a different one each
night, on a monthly circuit, I vividly
recall my struggles with a spanner, until
I graduated to a tuning-key. Truly they
“grew old before their time,” for,
observing the success of Winifred Atwell
and Company, I often think what a
success I might have had 30 years later,
without my tuning-key.
♦t + ♦jf
“Harriben”: Scene: Queen-street,
Auckland (N.Z.). Busy pedestrian
traffic. A very small boy emerges from
Woolworth’s and drops his bag of sweets
on the footpath. Adult male quickly
picks up the goodies and runs in and
out the people up the pavement. I was
the man. I heard the bag drop, and
seeing a man striding rapidly along,
assumed him to be the owner. Picked up
the bag and chased after him. Discover-
ing my mistake, I returned to find a
mother trying to comfort her distraught
small son, the burden of whose com-
plaint was: “A man stole them and ran
away with them.” I had a man-sized job
trying to explain to the irate parent just
what had happened.
£*
“Weg”: One of these days an enraged
motorist is going to climb out of his car,
pick up a sign and heave it through a
garage-window. On the sign will be
printed: “Petrol —Now Open.” They
put the sign there when they build the
garage, and it stays there. Another
offender is the roadside eatery. You
are driving along and start to. feel
peckish, so you keep an eye open and
see a sign: “Eat at Joe’s, another \-
mile.” A little further along is another
one: “Eat at Joe’s, another 200 yards.”
Then you see: “Joe’s—Drive In”; so
you do. And they’re as closed as lock-
jaw.
❖ ❖ *
“Vingter”: Touring the Queensland
South Burnett district I called at a pub in
a thriving town, and among a large party
in progress in one corner of the bar
recognised a gent who had been a school
dorm-mate of mine some 25 years before.
He seemed too elevated for me to seek to
renew the acquaintance, but he saw me
first. After the usual handshakes, he
explained apologetically: “I know I’m a
bit under the weather, but there’s an
excuse for it. Last month there was a
German wedding here and they skited
because the celebrations lasted 24-hours.
And I’ll admit it was a good shivoo. But
ten days ago we had an Irish wedding
And it’s not finished yet,”
❖ ❖ ❖
“N.”: “Staff’s” Army knowall (B.
18/7 /’56), who guaranteed immunity
from arrest on Commonwealth property:
what a run he’s had—old Knowall! Not
highly regarded until he is expounding
your “rights.” “You can go straight to
the corps-commander and don’t worry
about the officers in the unit.” “If they
didn’t X-ray you before you came in you
get an automatic pension.” “You can
demand to see your file. They can’t stop
you.” “If you tell them your wife’s
unhappy they’ll have to discharge you.”
In civilian fife he sent innocents to banks
in search of quids for 1920 pennies,
others to court for not rendering
“unnecessary” returns. Of course his
career was made easier by wishful-think-
ing ; there is a Knowall more or less
repressed in every bag of human flesh
and bones.
❖ ❖ ♦>
/'TAVIN CASEY’S pie-Odyssey omitted
that prince of pies, the pork-pie.
True, it is not quite the pie-of-the-people,
like the steak-and-kidney or common-
or-garden meat-pie, nor is it usually a
one-man pie. But it is—or, rather, was,
for, alas, it is now almost extinct—the
pie par excellence. ' Known also as the
Melton Mowbray, where it originated in
the mind of some inspired cook, the pork-
pie ranges in size from the modest five-
incher to the monster made to grace the
Christmas feast, around 20in. in diameter
with height to match. Its shape named
the “pork-pie” hat. The pork-pie, as
English as Dickens and roast-beef, is not
an article of commerce in Australia,
although not entirely unknown. It can-
not be mass-produced. Its production
was the province of the pork-butcher, a
profession that has been almost swamped
by a degeneracy of delicatessens. Invari-
ably consumed cold and usually in large
wedges, its excellence lies in succulent
pieces of choice pork embedded in clear
jelly and thick rich pastry with glossy,
brown, mouth-watering crust. It is a
noble sight to see one, surmounted by
a sprig of holly and other decorations,
occupying the place-of-honor in the centre
of the board. The pastry is perhaps the
dominant theme; compounded of flour
and lard, best with the aid of milk, and
baked in a moderate oven for up to two
hours, it melts in the mouth and inspires
visions of delight before giving way to
the tasty morsels beneath. —“Alchemist.
FULL-UP
“Australia’s marriage-rate last year of 7.84
a thousand was the lowest since the depression.”
Marriages are in regression —
Worst, last year, since the depression :
Some, perhaps, are getting sense,
But most refuse to live in tents.
Thus our self-denying nation
Meets the housing-situation,
Making room in future days
For the kids they fail to raise.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


pNJOYING the comfort of a night in
■ L ' the school-house of a remote Maori
village, I was browsing through the
Births and Deaths register—most of the
heads are registrars in such places.
Found a few classics: one the death of
an infant —“Cause of Death, District
Nurse.” Then a whole page of young
children who had died of Tifod Fiva —
schoolmaster obviously on holidays. But
on the happier side in the Births:
“Mother, Hine ; Father, Hori ——
(but he won’t admit it).” —“Sixtoes.”
❖
“M.8.H.”: Repeated radio-appeals
after a bank-robbery in our town asked
“You cant even trust that mans shirts !”
for the whereabouts of a Riley car driven
by two men. A titter passed around.
The only Riley-owner we knew was the
manager of a rival bank. The Law must
have been aware of this, because it was
emphasised that the Riley in question
was a two-tone job. The bank-manager’s
job was all grey. Life doesn’t often
write a neat story.
* ❖ ♦>
“Lorna Doone”: The lift was full of
Friday shoppers, cold and wet; dripping
umbrellas, unwieldy bags ; but there was
the usual one who must have her little
joke. “Yes,” she said, “I was hours in
the butcher’s, and the old dear in front
of me just couldn’t make up her mind.
The butcher was getting testy, so when
I moved up I thought I’d jolly him along:
‘An’ I'll have sixpennorth of cat’s-meat,
too,’ I said. ‘Don’t drop it on the floor,
’cos the sawdust gets under me plate!’
You should’ve seen the look he gave me.
Some people have got no sense of
humor.”
“Willpar”: Patriotism or some-
thing took me along to the near-
by showroom to inspect the
new-model Holden. Salesman,
obviously acting under instructions,
stayed well in the background while a
host of fellow-patriots looked at, sat in,
tampered with, poked, praised and all but
purloined the shining new Federal-
revenue bait. My gaze was in parallel
with an old-timer. A cap, walrus
moustache, lunch-tin and crumpled attire
labelled him a night-watchman or some-
thing akin. “Beauty, ain’t she?” he said
(funny how a new car loosens the tongues
of strangers —quicker even than cock-
tails). “Yes,” I agreed, “lovely engine.”
“Yus,” he said dreamily; “I think I’ll be
selling the Pontiac.”
“S.M.S.”: Recently attended a per-
formance of a very inspiring play—and
was completely under the spell of the
angelic heroine. After the show I went
behind stage for a chat with some friends.
Was standing in the doorway when some-
one bumped into me, and apologised:
“Sorry, sweetie,” I turned to find my
“angelic heroine,” in black tapered slacks,
and carrying in one hand a long cigarette-
holder and in the other a bottle of beer.
Probably even real angels can’t keep it
up all the time.
At ❖ ❖
“Ex-Applex”: One of those cheery
“tempo-on-toast” early-morning announ-
cers has his classes mixed. Last week he
remarked, “Of course that’d be in the
caviare class, the sort of thing the hoi
polloi has for breakfast when James
the butler brings it in.” And a few days
later, “When you’re asked to dine with
the hoi polloi you naturally want to look
your best, and a well-cut suit is essential.”
James must be raising his eyebrows!
* ❖ ❖
“Opsimath”: Migrants may be a long
time getting into our Test-cricket teams
(“Doynest,” B. 4/7/’56), but Soccer
already bristles with linguistic snags for
the barracker, as witness Victoria’s State
team: Barotajs, de Bruyckere. Zablocki,
Mathyssen Vella, Vivoli, Cubero and
Jakubowski plus Hodgson, Thomas
and Smith.
“Fairf”: Automation has corne to the
suburban ice-cream vendor. No longer
he attracts children and harries parents
by ringing a handbell; these days a
mechanical device plays a musical carillon
while he cruises along. Which accounts
for the utterance of a neighbor’s hopeful
as we sat listening to the cricket-broad-
cast from Old Trafford. The reception
was clear enough for us to hear an engine
puff out of a station in the background;
"Here come MORE fishermen !”
several minutes later a carillon of bells
chimed from the same vicinity. “Gee,”
exclaimed the kid in surprise, “they must
have ice-cream in England!”
<j+
“Airs-crew”: The query raised in the
war-play written by Laurence Stallings
and Maxwell Anderson in 1924 is at last
answered. The British Government has
graciously exempted from income-tax
the £ 10-annuity and 6d.-a-day extra
pension granted to their Victoria Cross
winners. What Price Glory?
♦> At ❖
“Weg”: Victorian Minister for Rail-
ways Sir Arthur Warner is said to have
a plan to instal before next November
liquor-bars and television-sets in trains
running to the border, to compete with
inter-State tourist-buses and impress
overseas visitors to the Games. N. S.
Wales railways don’t need such aids to
impress visitors —all they have to do is
tell them the Deficit.
♦> *** *l* <
“Hi-Fy”: Stocktaking was proceeding
slowly. Power Hacksaw Blades, 64 —
was not that rather a big stock? I queried.
At nearly ten-bob a time it runs into
money. “Quite normal,” said the store-
man. “Use a lot of these things ; they’re
always breaking. Make real good fishing-
knives, too, you know,” he
went on naively. “Good
steel in these, tempered all
through; put a handle on
them, sharpen-up the back
edge for gutting, the toothed
edge is excellent for scraping
off the scales. Got five-
dozen fine whiting last week-
end. Going out again Satur-
day I’ll bring you in a
few.” And on we went with
the job.
❖ * *
“Spooks”: He was a nice
lad, and when he left us
to return to Red Hills, his
station home, I offered him
a bed whenever he needed it
in South Perth. Months
later we let the old home,
grown too big with the
passing of the family, and a
well-known important person
took it for five weeks during
his family’s holiday. After
midnight stealthy footsteps
came along the front
veranda; softly a door
opened and the young
farmer moved in the direc-
tion of his erstwhile bed.
The light snapped on; a
startled beautiful lass looked
up at him, sheets pulled up
to her chin, while her hand-
some husband barred the progress of the
flabbergasted youth with an upraised
hand and a flow of angry words.
The youth explained, was believed;
everyone laughed; and he was given the
sofa to sleep on.
❖ * ❖
“Handout”: In his search for unusual
timber exhibits for Timber Week
(November 12-17), Colin Davis, director
of the Timber Development Association
of Australia, has received from C, Tid-
marsh, of New Zealand, a piece of
English oak from King Henry VlU’s
warship Mary Rose. She was sunk off
Spithead in 1545. An early diver named
Dean descended in 1836 and recovered
brass cannon and pieces of the main-
mast from which the relic was cut. The
ship was eventually raised in 1840. The
Timber Development Association, 19
Bligh-street, Sydney, is anxious to find
further unusual articles for exhibit.
*l* ❖ ♦>
“A.L.D.”: My milkman used to deliver
early, but latterly he has been coming
about 8-o’clock. Waylaying him after
a few days of this I was dumbfounded at
his explanation: “Oh, I have another
man on the run, now. I used to do it
all myself.”
❖ ❖ &
“Jon Lyn”: Constricted breathing and
what seemed a heavy weight on her chest
panicked the nervous patient in the
private room. Her frantic ringing
brought the night nurse at a run to
switch on the light and reveal the cause
—a large orange-tabby cat. “This is dis-
graceful,” stormed the patient; “I’ll
report it to Matron in the morning.”
“That’s all right, Madam; you do,” said
Nurse saucily. “Because I \yon’t—it’s
her cat.”
4s
“Kenyas”: So another sensation has
caught Hollywood by the short hairs —
a new male star who’s bowling over the
ladies like ninepins and not a single hair
on his head! To blokes like me the news
is heartening. For long I’ve contended
that no intelligent man past middle-age
should possess hair. No longer will I
hand over my four-bobs to the bandit who
makes those tentative clips and snips
about my ears and neck. In future I’m
emulating this Hollywood star who every
three or four days plays an electric-
razor over his cranium. But I wonder
what he hasn’t got that I haven’t got,
besides hair?
❖ ❖ ♦>
the old gentleman asked the
** billygoat why he ate jam-tins, the
goat replied that there was often an
appreciable quantity of nutriment around
the edges and underneath the lids.
This pleased the old gentleman, who
thought he recognised a characteristically-
human attitude. “But,” he said, reprov-
ingly, with a glance upward at the
municipal notice-board beside the tip,
“whose property are the tins?”
“At first,” the goat replied with courtesy
but without cessation, “they are the
council’s, but when I have incorporated
them they belong to me.”
“And do you never,” the old gentle-
man continued, still in a moral vein,
“consider the hereafter?”
“No,” replied the goat, apparently mis-
understanding him; “for I have an
excellent digestion.”
With this the old gentleman was
delighted, for he had long asserted a
unity of instinct in all creatures. But
when the goat, having exhausted all the
municipal resources, proceeded to remove
and eat a paling from the fence surround-
ing the old gentleman’s garden, he laid
aside his philosophic attitude and attacked
the animal with his walking-stick.
Butting him in the pit of the stomach
with vigor and precision, the goat
ejaculated “Tu quoque,” for he was a
thought-reader and had browsed in his
youth about the precincts of the uni-
versity.
H. M. GREEN.
ANOTHER NEW LOOK
“The ‘slasual’-100k —slender and casual -to
be effected by clothes of ‘controlled volunie,
is the latest decree from the Parisian coutuneres
fox summer fashions. ? With it the air of
sophistication is a ‘must.’ ”
You may have “ top-tilt”
From the way that you're built,
With stresses and strains on your
ankles, \
And in places you bulge
’Cause you love to indulge —-
For the idea of dieting rankles!
You may have twin-chins
And you cant see your shins —
Yet your cares need be fewer than
Adams,
For your figger MUST mould
Now that volume’s controlled
In the clobber of misses and madams.
The A-look’s been heaved
In the discard; ungrieved
Is the H-line, which died in a season.
Oh, the fury they caused
Baffled wearers who paused
In the struggle their dresses to squeeze
on!
Now from Paris has come
The big bang of the drum
From the Big Shots of Fashion, and
{as you all
Will, gals) you'll spring
To attention, and swing
In behind the band-wagon called
Slasual.
To gain best effect
From the way you are decked
Out, just try to look so bored and blase;
That you couldn’t care less
Whether you may impress.
Be remote, as a dweller on Mars, say.
Don’t forget though, my dear,
To get this very clear
Interpreting terms that sound fruity,
It means simply this,
For both matron and miss:
You’ve got to look skinny and snooty!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
I NPV3OI
PERSONAL ITEMS
SYDNEY LEGACY
New president of Sydney Legacy,
Edgar Tink, has a quiet voice and a sort
of cumulative impressiveness ; and, when
interviewed, he had a quiet determination
to talk about the work of Legacy rather
than himself. Bom at Warracknabeal
(Vic.), he went to Murray Bridge and
Mannum (S.A.) when he was 16 or so,
and has been a New South Welshman
since 1929. Joined the Bank of Adelaide
as a youngster; joined the First A.I.F. at
21 ; with the 50th Bn’ in Egypt, France
and Flanders, rank sergeant; and joined
a milling concern when he came back.
Then he went to Bunge (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
the wheat-exporters, retiring in 1954. Plays
bowls with the Balgowlah club, and was
hon. sec. of Sydney Legacy from 1946
to present appointment. He scored an
0.8. E. in this year’s New Year Honors.
e 0
Arthur R. Driver, A.M.1.E., has been
well groomed for his latest job as chief-
of-operations of the Inter-Governmental
Committee for European Migration.
Formerly of the Australian Department of
Immigration, he has spent the greater part
of the- past three years in Rome as
immigration-attache and chief migration-
officer for Italy, Malta and Greece. Dur-
ing World War II he was in khaki, some
of the time as brigade-major of the 23rd
Australian Infantry Brigade and later as
G. 5.0.2 (Ops.) on Advanced L. of C.
After the war he preceded F. J. Wise as
Administrator of the Northern Territory.
© «
For his thesis on “Clientship in the
Roman Empire” Ernst Badian, graduate
of Canterbury University College, New
Zealand, has been awarded an Oxford
Ph.D. His parents, with their young
son, arrived in New Zealand from Austria
a year before War II broke.
0 0
“Old Reader”: Sorry, but Allan
Murchison, C.M.F. Brigadier (B. 4/7/’56),
is not, at 38, the youngest of his rank
in Australia. John Allenby James,
Brigadier I Armored Brigade, was
appointed on January 29, 1956, at the
age of 36. He joined the Hunter River
Lancers when he was 15, was commis-
sioned at 18, and was a troop-leader with
7 Div. Cav. Regt. in Palestine, Egypt and
Syria. He was with the regiment in the
Sanananda battles of the Papuan cam-
paign, where the regiment covered itself
with glory, only to be broken-up as a
result of its heavy casualties. He then
served with 2/31 Bn. and was seconded as
liaison-officer on 7 Div. H.Q. for the Lae,
Ramu, Markham Valley campaign.
Served with 2/31 Bn. through Borneo-
Balikpapan campaign as
company-commander.
On re-formation of the
C.M.F. in May, 1948, he
volunteered for service
again, and was first post-war
C.O. of 15 Northern Rivers
Lancers; then came his
present appointment. He
has been a member of Corps
of Cavalry, Infantry,
A.A.S.C. and Armor.
He is a son of Colonel
W. H. (“Hop”) James, M.C.,
V.D., who served with
Hunter River Lancers and
Ist Light Horse, A.1.F.,
from 1904 until retirement
in 1943.
« 0
Charles Roland Risch-
bieth joined George Wills
and Co., Ltd., in 191.2, when
he was 17 ; his father, C. F.
Rischbieth, was one of the
original directors and had
been a partner in the firm
before it was turned into a
limited company in 1913;
and a son, Charles David, is
now on the staff. C.R. is
managing-director, and, except for
three years of War I (lieutenant,
R.N. Air Service), has had con-
tinuous service with the company. On
a raft of boards —G. and R. Wills,.
Adelaide; Wills, Gilchrist and Sander-
ADELAIDE BUSINESS
son, Brisbane ; Gilchrist Watt and Sander-
son, Sydney ; Colton Palmer and Preston,
Adelaide; South Australian Portland
Cement; Royal Insurance, Adelaide;
Savery’s, Adelaide —his favorite off-board
occupation is gardening.
0 0
The “do” in honor of Mary Gilmore at
Paddington Town Hall (Sydney) next
Wednesday night inspires literary-
historian Bill Fitz Henry to biography:
Sixty years ago today—on August 8, 1896 —
Mary Gilmore’s first Bulletin contribution was
printed. Signed “M.J.C.” (she was then Mary
Jean Cameron), it was a poem of pity for a
street-walker and was called “Outcast.” She
was teaching at Stanmore when she wrote it,
but by the time it was in print she had left
for Paraguay, afloat on William Lane’s “New
Australia” adventure. In verse, she was com-
paratively a late starter. She told A. G.
Stephens: “At the age of twelve I decided to
write nothing until I was thirty for fear of
immaturity.” She was exactly 30 when she
wrote “Outcast.”
Her father, Donald Cameron, was a Scottish
Highlander—“very Highland”—and she was
born at Cotta Walla, near Goulbum (N.S.W.).
She went to school for three years only, but
after a brilliant pass became a pupil-teacher at
16. She taught at bush-schools from Illabo to
Silverton.
While teaching at Stanmore she lived at
Chippendale, opposite University Park, where
Jack Le Gay Brereton recalled dining with her
and with Annie Lane (William Lane’s wife).
Henry Lawson —young, shy and lanky—was a
fellow-guest. Henry upset a cup of tea. Mary
was bubbling over with the “New Australia
idea and saving money to follow the colonists.
Later, she wrote: “The three people who
most shaped my mind and life were John
Farrell, William Lane and A. G. Stephens. To
these three I owe any power of output, any
shape in work, any touch of ‘quality,’ and
anything that is any good in my work.”
In The Bulletin she summed-up the South
American adventure: “Travelled alone from
Sydney to Paraguay. Lost father and mother.
Married; had a son. Resigned from colony.
Baby nearly died. Husband absent four months
in Patagonia, out of the way of mails; no word
from him. Fever and disappointment. Getting
grey, t but quite prepared to begin life again
on nothing.”
She came back to Australia by way of
England, where she met Henry Lawson looking
“fagged and ill.” Blackwood’s, his London
publisher, told her that Henry had “the ball at
his feet.” But, at 35, Lawson’s writing career
had practically finished —he wrote nothing of
consequence after —and Mary, almost the same
age, had hardly .begun hers. The Melbourne
George Robertson published her first book,
Marti’d and Other Verses, in 1910.
Mary Gilmore now has an assured position
in Australian literature. Altogether, 12 books
of her verse have been published; the last one,
Fourteen Men, brought out by Angus and
Robertson to coincide with her 89th birthday,
was a remarkable accomplishment by any
standard.
The Chair of Australian Literature Fund, in
co-operation with various literary societies, has
arranged a function at Paddington Town Hall on
the eve of her 91st birthday, at which Dame
Mary will be presented with a portrait of herself
by William Dobell. The evening begins at
8 p.m. (Wednesday, August 15).
0 0
Joseph William Henry Lugg, 49, returns
to his home State as Professor of Bio-
chemistry in the new Westralian Medical
School. Graduated in Science with
honors in chemistry in 1928, took his
Master-degree in 1931 and his doctorate
in 1934, followed by a London Ph.D.
Then put in 16 years with C.5.1.R.0.,
lectured in plant biochemistry at Mel-
bourne University, and for the past eight
years has been Professor of Biochemistry
at the University of Malaya.
0 0
Lawrence Osborne Mocatta, at 33,
has a job that suits him fine. The official
divisions of it run to some length—
Quarantine Officer, Northern Territory,
medical-officer in charge of leprosy areas,
ditto Batchelor hospital (the Rum Jungle
township)—but, boiled down, it seems to
include medical visits to missions and
cattle-stations over a fair stretch of
country as well as responsibility for
general quarantine at Darwin and treat-
ment of lepers elsewhere. Not, he
emphasised when he was down in Sydney
with wife and infant, that he’s anything
like the big wheel in medical matters in
the Territory; “put that in and you’ll
make me look silly.” But, from his point
of view, it’s a good life up there.
Friendly, but not what you could
call talkative, Laurie did a C.R.T.S.
course after the war, of which he saw
quite a bit with both the R.N. and R.A.N.
Joined the R.A.N. at 17, from Shore ; and
N.T. MEDICINE
went from lower-deck to ward-room,
liking the company of both. His grand-
father is Judge William Hugh Mocatta,
who recently celebrated his 94th birth-
day, having retired from the Bench at
70; his father is Hugh Osborne
Mocatta, well known to another Service
generation, and an old New Guinea
hand.
• 0
Sir Raymond Kelly, Chief Judge of the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, who
has passed on at 57 in Melbourne, was
born in India and educated at St. Xavier's
College, Calcutta, and at Christian
Brothers College, Adelaide. Dux of the
last, he went on to collect a swag of prizes
at Adelaide University—Andrew Clarke
Scholar, Latin, Stowe Prizeman twice,
David Murray Scholar, Private Inter-
national Law —and was called to the Bar
in 1921. Commenced legal practice at
Yorketown (S.A.), was Mayor, then
special and stipendiary magistrate,
Adelaide, Port Augusta and Wallaroo.
Chairman of the Police Appeal Board,
Deputy President of the S.A. Industrial
Court, royal commissioner twice in the
early ’thirties (waterside and Roseworthy
Agricultural College), chairman of the
S.A. Football League Commissioners
(1936-41), and president of the S.A.
Industrial Committee and Board of
Industry (1930-41). He had been Chief
Judge of the Arbitration Court since
1949 ; K.B.E. in 1952. A man with a
surprising range of interests, he had an
intellectual brilliance which, in some of
its manifestations, was unorthodox. He
also had a great friendliness, which
charmed those who knew him; and he
was a lover of cricket. He had been ill
for some time, and there can be no doubt
that the burden of office contributed to
his comparatively early death.
• • '
“A.C.T.”: Appointed Rutherford
Memorial lecturer for next year in Aus-
tralia, Professor E. N. da C. Andrade is
a physicist whose published work ranges
from The Structure of the Atom to poems
and songs. London-born, he’ll be 70 next
year, and his education was due in part to
University College, London, Heidelberg
in Germany, the Cavendish Laboratory,
Cambridge, and Manchester University.
He was on active service in France from
1915 to 1917, and was “mentioned.” His
long career has included directorship of
the Royal Institute and also of the
Faraday Research Laboratory.
0 0
Into the Silence:
At 65, in Brisbane, Cecil Emanuel, founder
and immediate past-president of Nundah Rotary
Club, proprietor of the “Northern Suburbs
Express,” and worker in many good causes.
In Wellington (N.Z.), Marie Tarbayeff, widow
of Major-General Ivan Tarbayeff, who com-
manded a Russian division in Salonika in World
War I. She was patroness of N.Z.’s Anti-
Communist Association.
At Robertson (N.S.W.), suddenly at 56,
Wollongong and Port Kembla’s well-known
medico Cecil W. Luscombe.
Suddenly, at 51, while travelling between Port
Hedland and Broome (W.A.), C. W. Don
Barker, member of the Westralian Legislative
Council since 1952. Born in York (Eng.), he
came to W.A. in 1921, and spent most of his
time in the north-west as a station-hand, stock-
inspector and protector of aborigines. Served in
the R.A.N. in War 11. A keen advocate for
the development of the north-west.
In Sydney, at 72, Peter Burge, prominent
Rugby Union and Rugby League forward of
other days. Peter and elder brother Albert
(called “Son”), also a League footballer of
note, were the early help and inspiration of
younger brother Frank, still considered to
rank as perhaps the greatest Australian Rugby
League forward ever.
At 96, at Wellington (N.Z.), Sir Heaton
Rhodes, member of the House of Representa-
tives for 26 years and of the Upper House for
15 years, former Postmaster-General, Minister
of Health and Minister of Defence. He was
head of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem in
New Zealand.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 83, Ward George
Wohlmann, former Commissioner of Police.
A native of Invercargill, he joined the Force
in 1895, became Commissioner in 1930, and
accompanied the Duke of Gloucester on his
tour of the Dominion in 1935. Also served as
Commissioner of Police in Samoa from 1920 to
1922.


* Vt L r '
o
I"
< o rt: /
v f
h
CLlru,


ABORIGINALITIES
TX7HEN I perform chiropody-opera-
’ * tions on myself on a seat in a sunny
comer of the garden, small black ants
gather round and cart off the shreds —
some of them larger than the ants them-
selves. I’d never been able to work out
what the creatures did with them, till one
night when, out for dinner, I admired
(suspended above the mantelpiece) some
magnificent horns, the former property of
a buffalo my host had shot in the
Northern Territory. Then I wondered
if this was how the ants disposed of my
nail-parings, and whether they boasted
to their mates about the size of the
beast they got them from. —“Kenyas.”
* * * *
“P.A.”: The engineer at Bowen Con-
solidated’s Scottville mine (Q.) was show-
ing me parts of the mine-property I had
to check. “That’s the horse-cage shaft,”
he said. “Where the ponies go down?”
I asked. “Horses,” he stated firmly, and
showed me some of them —full-size
Clydesdales just like we used on the
farm.
" But, I tell you , Mars is flat!”
“Doynest”: The Murray River
paddle-steamers, like their skippers, were
built to last. After 12 years’ idleness,
54-year-old p.-s. Etona, with her 70-year-
old skipper, Captain A. H. Connor, was
called out of retirement during the floods
along the Murrumbidgee to help save the
wool-clip on a large station and to carry
supplies and fodder to riverside properties.
Ferrying shearers, wool, food and other
essentials, the Etona has shown that
modern floods can still produce an Ark.
“C.A.L.”: Reading of the Murrum-
bidgee floods, I wondered if the Bidgee
Queen maintained its bi-weekly schedule
between Wagga and North Wagga or took
refuge in a billabong till the waters
receded in the main stream. When
stationed in this Riverina district during
the war I did not sight the craft, which
was surprising, since a soldier cobber
convinced the authorities at Sydney
Showground that a boat of this name
navigated the river between the two
points. When handed a six-day leave-
pass he explained that quite a lot
of his time would be spent
travelling, as the boat from
Wagga to North Wagga (where
he lived) only ran twice a week.
The R.T.O.’s knowledge of
waterways south of Sydney
ended at Cook’s River, and
several days’ travelling-time
were added to the soldier’s
leave-pass.
“Bitie”: Gibby was always known as
the town’s most successful fisherman —
until the Browns’ baby was born. Then:
“Did you hear about Brown’s baby?”
“No; boy or girl?” “Dunno, but it
weighed twenty-six pounds when born.”
“No!” “Yes, it’s true. The scales at the
hospital were on the blink, and they
borrowed Gibby’s scales.”
* * * *
“Aust.”: Nominate as the deepest
road-cutting in Australia the one on the
Clifton Highway (s.-e. Queensland),
which is 103.3 ft. deep. Any to compete
with it?
* * * *
“Sundowner”: Victoria’s Crown Law
Department has upheld a contention of
apiarists that bees are not insects but
livestock. This, means that bees carried
by road-transport will be exempt from
the new road-charges. Before this ruling
they were charged as much as other goods
of a similar nature, although they have
long been classed as livestock for income-
tax purposes and quarantine-regulations.
* * * #
“Postie”: A quick-thinking Junior
Postal Officer (telegram-boy) along the
Ampol trial-route saw a competitor flash
along the main street and head due
west at about 65-an-hour instead of
turning left and travelling south. The
J.P.0., watching from the post-office
veranda, ducked into a phone-box and
rang a roadside hotel three-miles on. The
proprietor hurried out in time to flag' the
driver and tell him: “Thataway.”
* • * •
“B. A. Ker”: Most well-run jobs keep
an “Accident Report” book in which all
injuries, major or minor, are recorded.
This not only thwarts the smarty who
would save-up a weekend injury till Mon-
day so. as to get “compo” but also pro-
tects the genuine chap whose injury turns
out worse thati it at first appeared.
Some accidents, however, occur so
simply or in such a ridiculous manner
that there comes a strong temptation to
alter the truth to make them sound
feasible. Like, for instance, the one I
entered-up yesterday. The chap
snatched up a 101 b. sledgehammer to
break a boulder fouling a setting-out line.
At the top of the swing his “funny-bone”
struck the fence, loosening his grip, and
“The flight-sergeant is on his Way back now , sir."
—yes, the hammer descended on his
skull, raising a lump like half a golf-
ball. Eh? A bloke who’d hit himself
bn the head with a hammer must be a bit
of a drongo? Could be, I suppose, but
I’d never regarded the fellow as such.
I’ve still got the bump.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Across the narrow bush-path
the black-snake and the large smooth-
skinned lizard confronted each other.
Save for a tongue that flicked in and out,
Joe lay quite still, his deadly eyes fixed
intently on the smaller reptile. The latter’s
body, frozen into immobility, was curi-
ously crumpled, as if shrunk by dread
into the smallest possible compass. How
long this tableau had lasted I couldn’t say,
but as I got it into focus the snake sud-
denly raised his head and slithered away
into the undergrowth. For fully five
minutes the lizard retained his peculiar
posture, staring straight ahead as if his
awful antagonist had never moved. Then
his mouth opened slightly, his tongue
came out, and he tentatively licked his
lips. Several times he did this; then,
as if still in the aftermath of some dread-
ful dream, he gingerly straightened-out
his body and wobbled off, a case for a
psychiatrist if ever there was one.
# * * *
“Millicent”: It’s interesting to follow
the masts when a ship goes to the
breakers. One is spending a useful post-
maritime life as a rigging-spar for a Mel-
bourne firm of structural-steel erectors.
It is a 40ft.-by-12in. clear-oregon stick
and used to belong to the Edina, a
familiar Yarra hulk for many years before
she was broken-up a couple of years ago.
* * * *
“Jas.”: Large eggs and a long period of
incubation ensure that Megapode chicks
are well fledged and developed when
emerging from the shell. They are
independent of their parents and receive
from them neither food nor protection.
Obviously the parental instinct, as we
know it amongst avians, does not func-
tion in the case of this remarkable fowl.
Adult birds may frequently appear about
the nest when hatching occurs, but they
may be seen there at other times as well.
There is some evidence to show that the
mound is a communal effort, and it
remains—apart from any attention that
might be given to the eggs —a centre of
communal interest for some time.
* * * *
“Ceg”: How many branches of banks
still retain their gold-buyer’s licence?
Fifty or so years ago most of the banks
in central Victoria had them. There’s
something much more satisfying in
sovereigns, alluvial gold and chunky
ingots than paper will ever supply. The
“prettiest” gold was the stuff from the big
dredges—fine gold with little nuggets
mixed in it. Then there was the smelted
gold, from stone that had been through
the battery—usually a very good color
and not so coppery-looking as that from
the pyrites-process. The bars of gold
from the cyaniders was the palest of the
lot often quite anaemic-looking
though compared with today’s paper-
money it was robust and healthy. Some
banks did their own smelting—the Union,
at Tarnagufla, had its smelter in the
kitchen. Gold-buying was profitable, but
now and again someone put one over
the bank. I remember when a cyanider
lodged a cone of gold (so shaped from the
bottom of the crucible) which the Mint
found- to be lead with a gold-coating.
When the trickster’s cyanide-plant was
visited, the bird had flown.
* * * *
“Tabba”: Old Jim never bothered clos-
ing the door of his quarters, even at
night. Nobody noticed the swallows had
nested above his bed until Jim started
sleeping under an old tarp. to catch what
must come down. The boss was going to
tear out the nest, but Jim said aggressively
that it would stay till the young had flown
away. When Jim was out in the paddock
the boss closed the door and window.
Jim got back to find two frantic swallows
flapping at the door. Later, hammering
was heard from Jim’s quarters. Next
day when Jim had gone the boss found
door and window wide open and nailed
firmly in place. The boss gave in and
the swallows eventually flapped-off on
their training-flights.
» * * *
“Benbow”: In our mild North
Queensland climate my hen-houses are
abandoned by the rightful owners, who
elect to sleep in trees. These include a
prizewinning Wyandotte, a breeding trio
of Anconas, a breeding trio of Silkie
bantams which collected first at a poultry-
show, and a dozen White Leghorns.
Even in the rainy season they all still
prefer the tree to shelter.
* * * *
ARE there among our native birds any
more persistently and unpleasantly
noisy fellows than the little-wattle-birds?
All wattle-birds and friar-birds have
harsh voices, but these little “rackety-
brats” spend a lot of time and energy
squabbling among themselves in their
harsh, rattling chatter, and in earbashing
most of the other birds that come about
the place, throwing their whole weight
into it and quivering from bill-tip to
outspread tail as they shriek “Scrat!
Scrat!”
We have an elderly kookaburra on our
strength for rations —he’s too tired to
earn his own living—who has become a
real chopping-block for the squarkers.
They chase him from tree to tree and will
sit on a bough, one on each side of him
and take it in turns to swing sideways
towards him and alternate their scolding
with vicious pecks.
Jacko makes no attempt to retaliate,
but when he has had all he can take he
flies through any open window, into the
house or on to the sun-porch. We are
used to finding him sitting quietly on the
kitchen-sink, the bathroom hand-basin or
a veranda-chair, and it is no surprise
sometimes to find him even comfortably
snuggled down on a folded eiderdown on
one of the beds. The wattle-birds’ nest-
ing-season is Jacko’s time of special
travail.
MOTUKU.
MOSSIFACE
O autumn day, swjft passing afternoon,
I should be riding now down Bruthen Flats,
Staring beneath the sun and rising moon
At the tall maize lying on the earth like mats . . .
The golden maize long gone, the dry head
downed,
The moist and fleshlike hair’s immortal red
In darkest pools, and every maize-crib crowned
Like some long-lost and secret Celtic bed.
And while the Tambo passes sore with flood
Swollen upon a day of swift July,
Through lowlands where the red gums’ winelike
blood
Stares sculptured on the brown tides swirling
by,
I should be trampling down with lonely' stride
Of slender-legged horse, the crackling stalks,
And staring over land that far and wide
Talks to the soul as only Gippsland talks . . .
And all the lost blackbearded men I knew
Who lived and toiled from daylight unto dark
Are only manifest now in the smoke’s pale blue
That rises from their lonely huts of bark.
O Bruthen flats and lonely Mossiface,
Fair features lying cold beside the stream,
And listening with an ear of Grecian grace
To the vast creative words that form a
dream . . .
For often it has seemed, and seemed to me
To truly be a legend old and long,
Of how old Tambo turned toward the sea,
Determined in its heart to make a song;
And of that song, the great heroic strain
Should be of one, long-bearded, gracious, wise,
A sad old god who dwelt in tears like rain,
Who felt the aeons stream forth from his eyes
In lonely tears that fell unchecked to earth
And ran to join the Tambo’s moaning flood,
That gave to Bruthen all its rich long dearth
And to the Tambo’s mouth red lips of mud . . .
Is this the song that ran with murmurings
strange
From Tambo Valley in its ferny grace,
Saying, “I race in flood below the range,
And weep in song to be in Mossiface.
Once there, in glittering syllables of power,
I leap and sweep along the mossy plain,
I cast my orchard apples out in showers
Upon the shore, then snatch them back again.
I lift and rise and laugh within my deeps,
I smile upon the sand and sliding grain,
While Mossiface beside my burden sleeps
And hears me speak its fair name once again.
I linger there in little brown-lipped pools
And toy with long dry maize-stalks, sodden,
slow,
Where silver skipjacks rise in splashing schools
With Tambo mouth full many a mile to go.
And so for hours and sons I trickle by
With laughter, sorrow, kindliness and grace;
Half color and half current do I sigh
Forever in my depths past Mossiface.”
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


THE Armidale “Express,” third-oldest
newspaper in N.S.W., celebrated its
hundredth birthday a couple of months
back. Looking through the centenary-
issue, I find they have listed the prices of
various articles in the district in 1856 and
now. Most have gone up five or six
times; only one was lower in price—the
“Express” itself. It had gone down from
Bd. to 4d.—“Jaydee.”
* * * *
“Mainbrace-Splicer”: “Clem” (B.
4/7/’56) inquires the cost of the Cutty
Sark. Her keel was laid down probably
in November, 1868, and she was launched
on November 23, 1869. Her ruinous
specifications having bankrupted her
builders (Scott and Linton, of Dum-
barton), she was completed by their
creditors. Her cost was £2l-a-ton ; her
net tonnage 921 ; so if my arithmetic
serves me right total cost would be
£19,342. At her launching she was classed
16A1, but passed survey satisfactorily
in March, 1951, after 82 years’ service.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Bush “advertisers,” who rode
on ahead of droving outfits to warn
owners of stray stock along the route
(B. 18/7/’56), recalled those gentlemen
who, in the early days of the century,
used to be seen biking along country
roads with a box of assorted and usually
vivid paints strapped to the luggage-
carrier. They used to call on stores in
the different country towns and gelt
orders for painting advertisements on
fence-rails. It always seemed to me to
be a pleasant sort of job, particularly in
“The Works, Joe!”
spring and summer. Of course, those
were horse-and-buggy days, and people
jogging along had time to read the ads.
The modern motorist barely has time to
read the 20ft. hoardings which contribute
to the beauty of the countryside.
* * * *
“Geep”: It’s over a year since heli-
copters were first used by the Speck’s
Hydroelectric Commission (B. 11/7/’56).
Two Bristol Sycamore machines from
H.M.A.S. Vengeance were lent by the
R.A.N. early in 1955. Surveyors erected
beacons on inaccessible mountain-tops in
the rugged south-west in a matter of
hours, and the geologists and engineers
made day-visits to localities on the King,
Franklin and Gordon Rivers which could
be reached by land only after weeks of
battling with Tassie’s notorious hori-
zontal-scrub. The ’copters also carried
several tons of building-material to the
isolated Lake Mackenzie in the Western
Tiers.
* * * *
“N.L.”: It was many years since I’d
been back to the old home town. I
remarked to the town-oldster that the
place had not changed very much. “Rot! ”
he snorted. “Rot!” I felt I’d offended
the old fellow, and tried to square-off.
“Hasn’t changed, me foot; the place has
gone back!” he roared.
* * » *
/
“Hamehook”: I can’t agree with D. J,
Hislop (B. 13/6/’56) that neither the
smithy’s forge nor its anvil has changed—
the rotary blower has superseded the
bellows, for instance. The smith’s shop
has often been the place where new
machines were first produced. Some of
the world’s greatest agricultural-machinery
firms were founded by farmers who made
their first machines in their own farm
smithies, and who, in more than one
case, lived to become millionaires.
Although the self-employed smith is
passing, the one who makes and tempers
forgings with the aid of dies, presses,
power-hammers and various tempering
baths is still one of the most important
of all metalworkers in the great engineer-
ing shops.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: An object rarely seen in the
country kitchen now is the large black
iron kettle which, before the" advent of
copper-coiled wood-stoves, used to be the
main supplier of domestic hot water. My
neighbor progressed with the times to
allow the displacement of kerosene-lamps,
Coolgardie-safe and horse-transport, but
declined a hot-water service on the
ground that “We’ve done without so long,
etc.” One can sympathise with the true
reason, for there’s a certain nostalgia in
the soothing sound of the simmering
black kettle, and to be relieved from the
last nightly chore of replenishing the
evaporated water could seem to be break-
ing the last link with a remembered past.
* * * *
“Maitri”: A rat had been roaming
round kitchen and pantry for weeks, but
neither cunningly-laid traps nor the cat
could do anything about it. Puss cer-
tainly did his best; he spent hours watch-
ing the hole in the corner, and even made
exploratory ventures into the hole with
his paw. Then, deciding that different
measures were necessary, he leaped on to
the table where his mistress was making
a savory-pie. Carefully selecting a piece
of bacon-rind —I’ll swear to the truth of
this with my dying breath! —he seized it,
jumped down, laid it beside the hole and
expectantly resumed his vigil.
* * * •
“Bass”: In the diary of one of the first
settlers in the country near the Leeuwin,
in south-west W.A., I find several refer-
ences to petrels and muttonbirds as
table-birds, and, as 12 dozen seemed a
normal day’s catch, I take it the birds
were salted. There are several W.A.
petrels known as muttonbirds, but the
most popular, for food, is the flesh-
“Why don't you Watch where you're going , mug!"
footed shearwater, which breeds on the
islands along the south coast from the
Leeuwin to the Recherche Archipelago.
It’s a dark, almost black bird, something
like the Tasmanian muttonbird, but rather
bigger, and, like that bird, it winters in
the North Pacific, travelling up the west
coast and over to South-East Asia, and
probably going as far as the Bering
Straits.
* ■ * (# *
“Traveller”: The Brisbane press has
been playing-up a Latvian who hunts
small land-crocodiles in N.Q. with the
aid of a spotlight; Kjah tribesmen of the
Marianna Straits region (Dutch New
Guinea) have longused this method. When
I was there on service in 1944 a bunch of
them obtained some for me. Their
technique was simply to go by praoe (dug-
out canoe) to where they knew crocs,
would be feeding, and quietly wait. When
a croc, came close to them, one boy
would blind and confuse it with the torch-
beam while his mate killed it with a blow
from a sharp, heavy tomahawk. Price
for this quick turnover in saurians was
two tins of talc-powder for the hunters’
binies (wives) and an ounce of tobacco
apiece for themselves —a rich reward, in
their opinion. Best time and place for
the sport, they told me, is at the mouth
of any tidal-creek when the tide is well on
the way out. With the incoming tide,
shoals of fish go up the creeks to feed,
and return downstream with the outgoing
tide —to be met at the creek-mouth by
scores of hungry crocs.
* * * *
“Maitri”: When some country friends
sustained a bereavement they received
a letter of condolence from neighbors on
whose property they had cattle on agist-
ment. It was a most sympathetic note
marred .only by a reminder —scrawled at
the bottom —that their cheque for agist-
ment was overdue.
SYDNEY SUBURBS
How different from the airy country acres
Straggle these alleys. Narrow-shouldered
people
Hurry reluctant feet on stony pavements.
Ragged winds
Fret at the weathercock on Saint Marys
steeple.
Starlings under the blistered rainstreaked eaves
Greet daylight with their gutter-larrikin
whistles.
The milkman brings the sunlight in the
morning;
Empty allotments
Flaunt their ephemeral crops of spiny thistles.
Where is the life we lost at half-past youth?
In smoky Redfem or at Marrickville?
Or has it tied gum-branches to its ankles,
Hiding its traces
While it retreated to a far green hill?
We are not lost while the blue mountains rise
Houseless, unchanged, in height on lifting
height;
While country children smile with quiet eyes,
Cities notwithstanding.
The land will save us in our own despite.
Body may trace its story like a snail
Evanescent upon the city stones.
The essential joins with birds in swinging trees
Till half-past death,
When pricking flesh departs the patient bones.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.
A REEL BEAUT.!
Muckadilla, or one of them qutback
places, squatting on his hunkers at the
edge of the water and aiming his rod out
to sea like a rifle, and Harry calls out,
“Lift the point of your rod or you’ll lose
him.”
“I can’t,” says the bloke from Mucka-
dilla ; “he’s pulling too hard.”
Harry passes his rod to me and goes
over to the poor coot. He still has about
10 turns on the reel, and the line is tight
as a fiddle-string and still going out
slowly against the drag.
“You take it,” says the bloke, “and
see if you can manage him. He’s got me
beat.”
So Harry takes-over and splashes out
about 30yds. up to his waist in the water,
getting the rod-tip up and picking-up a bit
of line. He gradually works his way back
to the beach, and the bloke says, “What
d,o you think it is? It felt like a ten-foot
shark to me.”
“A jewie,” says Harry, “about thirty-
pound by the feel of him.”
“Is that all?” says the bloke. “I thought
it was something big! ”
Ten-minutes later the fish is lying
where the backwash left it, and Harry
drags it out by the gills.
“Thanks a lot,” the bloke says. “I
might have lost him by myself. I’ll take
him up now and weigh him, but if you
like to come round in the morning I’ll
give you a good chunk off him if you
don’t have any luck yourself.”
LATE last night I was coming home
with a couple of small tailer when I
saw Harry and asked him how he was
going.
“No bloomin’ good: the game s crook.
Had a run from a big jew a while back,
but he threw it away. That Muckadilla
mob was in strife again early in the
evenin’. The girl hooked something big
and it kept on runnin’ out against the
drag, so she yelled for help. Old Mucka
and the lad dropped their rods and ran
to her. The old bloke grabbed the rod
with his two hands and tried to hold it
up, with the butt on the sand, and the
lad got down on his knees and got to
work on the reel, like he was crankin’ one
of them old-fashioned gramophones.
“He must have just about locked the
star-drag; four or five turns and the
rod’s bent right over and then back it
comes with a swish and Mucka’s lyin’
on top of it on the sand. They’re used to
draggin’ big cod out of the billabong
with about twelve-foot of rope-line on
the end of one of Mum’s clothes-props,
and they expect a twenty-pound nylon
to take it! ”
“Did you go to their rescue again?”
“Not me! For one thing I wasn’t
asked, and for another . . . Did you
hear what he gave me off that thifty-
seven-pounder I landed for him the other
night? Just enough for breakfast for
the three of us! He can catch and eat
his own bloomin’ jew the bloody
cannibal!”
I DON’T know what Harry and “me
young brother Bill” (who is rising 40)
do for a crust, but they have lots of
holidays, and whenever I see them or
“the Old Man” (off-70) they are fishing
the beach with long Rangoon-cane rods.
I seldom see them coming or going, and
if they sleep at all it must be on their
feet, like horses. They catch lots of
fish, but, according to the Old Man,
Young Harry, with all his 91b. tailer, 401 b.
sharks, sft. shovel-noses and “the biggest
bream ever caught on this beach,” is never
satisfied. He has never caught “a
walloping big jew.”
Well, he achieved his ambition the other
night, but he’s still not satisfied. There
were six of us fishing at the end of the
sandbank, and doing no good, when the
bloke fishing beside Harry lets out a
yell: “Got ’im! A real beaut.!”
We look round to see this bloke from
MULLOWAY.


lapinm
Vc
>
*
★>
-^“N/”7
MEW. SOUTH WALES /
Portion!)
"From
Cape York
to
Portland"-
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
alone provides such complete
Executor and Trustee Services
in all 3 Eastern States!
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. P. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman)*
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT23
Business, Robbery, Etc.
FIRMER, BUT CHOOSY
'«7ITH not very many June 30
* * balance-sheets to go by so
far, Australian sharemarkets
have been showing a firming
tendency. In particular, the rise
in B.H.P. shares following
announcement of the A.I. and S.
proposal to erect an additional
blast-furnace at Port Kembla
equal to the world’s largest
brought the scrip to the highest
price of the present year. At
445. 6d. the price compared with
41s. 3d. a week previously, a
“highest” of 425. so far in 1956,
and a highest of 435. 9d. in 1955.
A preliminary statement of
B.H.P. trading results to May
31 should not be long in forth-
coming. But the market appears
to take it for granted that
expenditure on the new nine-
million-pound blast-furnace will
involve a further issue of shares,
and that the 10 p.c. div. will be
maintained. The last issue was
made in 1954, and it represented
4,993,815 shares (one for four)
at a premium of 10s. a share.
The last three issues by B.H.P.
have all carried a 10s. premium.
In order to cope with rising
costs and to help finance addi-
tional outlay on plant, B.H.P.
has made two increases in the
price of steel over the past 18
months. This should help to
maintain the dividend if any new
issue should be made.
Market strength has not been
confined to B.H.P. In another
kind of industry altogether, F. J.
Walker, Ltd., has had good
support since a large parcel of
scrip was absorbed by the
market at around 225. Prices
have firmed to 245., with con-
tinued turnover. In the meat
business, the co. is very strongly
established.
The rise of 46 p.c. in the profit
of Kandos Cement was to be
expected, as such a lift was
necessary in order to pay the
10 p.c. indicated on the bonus-
and cash-increased capital.
Kandos is a holding co., and it
is unlikely that the operating
co.’s profit has increased at the
same rate as Kandos’s during the
year; more likely that it has
merely increased its dividend.
The cement industry is, in fact,
finding'' its expansion-rate slow-
ing down, but the Kandos group
is in a very strong position, even
though, in N.S.W., transport-
restrictions are a chronic head-
ache.
Another stock to move up-
wards strpngly has been Mc-
Pherson’s, which is included in
the portfolio of one of the fixed
trusts. Under 455. a few weeks
ago, the price has moved up
steadily to 50s. since the
announcement of a new one-for-
five issue at par. Books close on
September 14, and the £1 share
is payable in full on October 12.
McPherson’s and some of its
associates should find the latest
import-restrictions a help, especi-
ally in respect of competition
from overseas tool-manufac-
turers. Patience and Nicholson,
one of its associated toolmakers,
showed a reduced profit for
1955-56, but maintained its 15
p.c. div.
Notwithstanding the fall in
the consumption of beer since
the increase in the excise,
and in spite of the proposal to
reintroduce land-tax in N.S.W.
(as well as in defiance of im-
pending legislation to legalise
poker-machines in clubs), Tooth
shares in N.S.W. remain at about
455. However, they have lost
their glamor, momentarily, and
are not a market “leader” at
present.
The market’s marking-up has,
generally, been reserved for
stocks of unquestioned merit
and known trading resilience. A
premium is being paid for
quality and security. Slaughter
of the speculative and insecure
still goes on as the occasion
arises.
The new Commonwealth loan
has had a tendency to buttress
the sharemarket. Its terms are
slightly harder than those of the
May loan. While the nominal
rates of interest remain at 3} p.c.
for one-year securities and 5
p.c. for seven-year bonds, the
issue-price has been raised from
99} to 99} in both cases, with
the yield, including redemption,
dropping from £4 3s. p.c. to
£4 p.c. in the first case and from
£5 Is. 9d. p.c. to £5 os. lid. p.c.
in the second.
The offering is £lOO million,
including a £7O-million con-
version.
R. H. W. Molesworth
one of the casualties of
the recent oil-uranium-what-
have-you boom was Reginald
Howard Wynn Molesworth, of
Artarmon (N.S.W.), mining-
engineer and promoter of West-
land Oil, Ltd. (now in liquida-
tion). Molesworth was one of
the vocal enthusiasts and
inveterate optimists around
Sydney Stock Exchange during
1954. One could almost hear
him thinking “There’s oil in
them thar hills! and he plunged
heavily into mining speculation.
By some he was facetiously
referred to as “Oilsworth.”
Clyne, J., on July 19, in
Sydney, ordered the sequestra-
tion of Molesworth’s estate on
the petition of the co. he floated
in 1954 and to which he owed
£28,581 in unpaid calls. Moles-
worth claimed that 500,000 of
the co.’s shares had been “loaded
on to him” following a miscalcu-
lation of the public subscriptions
by which it was announced that
the issue had been over-
subscribed. Judge Clyne said
Molesworth’s position was hope-
less. Another judge in another
court had said much the same
about Westland Gil itself.
Other casualties of the boom
have been suicides and bank-
rupts. And the trail of ruin has
not stopped yet.
It is almost always so after the
collapse of a get-rich-quick
speculative orgy. Those left
holding the bag in the end
usually can’t afford to do so.
The Bulletin gave ample
warning of what would happen
when the oil-and-uranium boom
fizzled out.
Atomic Power and Isa
AN atomic powerhouse at Mt.
Isa would seem to be an
obvious and logical thing once
the sundered atom is put to work
industrially at economic cost. To
be able to transport concentrated
energy hundreds of miles into
the interior of Queensland
instead of hauling bulky coal
over one of the Commonwealth’s
most expensive railway-systems
seems almost as intriguing a
proposition as using atomic
power to propel submarines.
Remote places badly served with
conventional fuel and power
appear to be the logical
customers for nuclear energy.
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., as a first
step, is sending a technician
abroad to study the matter.
Supply Minister Beale has
promised the co. all advice and
technical assistance possible, but
Isa will be expected to pay for
the powerhouse itself.
It is a long-range proposition,
nuclear industrial energy being
in its infancy even in the U.K.,
U.S.A. and Russia.
Near-by Mary Kathleen
uranium-oxide has no bearing on
Mt. Isa’s plans. Pure uranium
would be required for the co.’s
reactors, and would be brought
from overseas.
At present Collinsville coal
hauled 760 miles by rail to Mt.
Isa costs about £8 a ton, and
makes power-generation
particularly dear.
The Mt. Isa mineral lodes are
among the most interesting in
Australia, yielding good copper
values as well as silver-lead, but
in the past it has been necessary
to coax overseas capital into the
show to finance development.
Mt. Isa shares are now a well-
established mining investment.
Of ss. each, they sold at 265. last
week. Div. for 1955 was 25 p.c.,
and in July this year a distribu-
tion of 40 p.c. was made.
Wool and Funds
shearers’ strike,
Russian boycotting and
overseas trade-recession not-
withstanding, the Australian
wool-cheque at £334 million for
1955-56 was much better than
expected earlier in the season.
It was only about £l9 million
lower than in the preceding year,
when £353 million was recorded.
More wool was sold —4,295,673
bales, compared with 3,955,476
bales in 1954-55, an increase of
8.6 p.c.
The price fell from 7 Id. a
pound for greasy wool to 6lid.
—down 13.5 p.c.
During the final month of the
season, largely because of lively
Japanese bidding, the average
price for greasy lifted to 64}d.
The season closed with only
57,094 bales in store, slightly less
than at the close of the preceding
season.
Clip for the present season is
estimated at 4,450,100 bales, a
record.
During the year in which the
wool industry did so much to
buttress Australia’s overseas
income, exports altogether rose
by £lO million to £784 million.
But imports, though they fell
£22.7 million, were still £37
million in excess of exports at
£B2l million. Excluding gold,
the deficit was £46 million.
Freight charges payable over-
seas rose from £BB million to
£lO3 million (and are going
higher), but other “invisible”
items, including dividends, fell
from £B3 million to £72 million.
The net deficit on current
account was £221 million, com-
pared with £257 million in the
preceding year.
Net inflow of foreign loans,
etc., was £6l million (up £2O
million). Net inflow of other
capital funds was £B2 million
(up £8 million).
The overall balance -of -
payments deficit was thus £7B
million, which was £64 million
less than in the preceding year.
Australia’s estimated overseas
reserves on June 30 were £350
million, compared with £428
million a year earlier.
Apart from the fact that low
productivity per person employed
is inhibiting our export trade
both in respect of available sur-
pluses and relative costs of pro-
duction, and also making the
need for imports greater than it
should be, one of the factors in
our excessive imports is the
clumsy method of import-
restriction. The quota-system
has the effect of perpetuating
unnecessary imports (even if on
a reduced scale) and at the same
time restricting necessary
imports.
Administration of import-
restrictions has always left a
great deal to be desired, and it
could do with a lot of refurbish-
ing and cleaning-up. If import-
restriction could be managed
through exchange-control and
credit policy it would cut out
a lot of the fantastic paper-work
and traipsing-about that is now
necessary under the present
system.
Roebuck Bay
[From L. OwenJ
T HAVE long held the view
that, in a general sense, the
prospects of striking commercial
oil in Australia improve as the
distance from the Archaeozoic
complex increases. I have noted
with gladness, also, that Wapet’s
exploration of Western Australia
with the drill has followed that
trend markedly since the middle
of 1955.
Independently, N. B. Sauve
appears to have formed the same
opinion, for, in May, 1954, he
stated that the prospects of
striking commercial oil on our
mainland were “marginal.”
Dirk Hartog Island is as
far west as one can get
from the Australian “shield”
of ancient rocks without
going into the sea. West of that
island a depth of 40 fathoms is
reached within half-a-mile from
the coast —a fact which doesn’t
favor offshore drilling and which
sets (at least at the present stage
of blue-water testing) a western
limit to direct geological investi-
gation.
By now the bore at Roebuck
Bay, about 20 miles s.-e. of
Broome, should be down a few
hundred feet. Like Dirk Hartog,
this location has an intriguing
form of coastline with many
geological implications, and it
is almost as distant, horizontally,
as one can get from Archaeozoic
strata in Australia. If conditions
favorable to oil are discovered
in the course of penetrating the
Canning Basin geological column
in the Roebuck Bay area on
land, the gently-sloping ’tween-
tides surface here will allow of
offshore drilling for a consider-
able distance out to sea. The
tides, with a range in level of
nearly 30ft., are a nuisance for
such work, but not aii insuper-
able obstacle.
The Minister for National
Development stated in Canberra
on July 24 that the rock-structure
between Geraldton and Cape
Leeuwin favored the accumu-
lation of oil and gas. This
opinion is based, presumably, on
the existence of surface-folds
within the narrow strip of sedi-
mentary strata lying west of the
Archaeozoic shield. It is remark-
able that such optimism prevails
in spite of the fact that surface
structures, in this geological
province to the north, have been
proved by the drill to be rarely
persistent at depth.
Still, as a whole, the advice
“Go west, young man,” offered
in quite another context, is
applicable with similar reserva-
tions to the search for petroleum
in Western Australia—even
although it may, at times, lead to
wet feet.
Slackness
r pHE turn of the Sydney tide
-*• is now rippling up the
Yarra. Engineers are still in
demand, but their process-
workers and less-skilled mates
are looking for work ; hundreds
are dismissed every week from
motor-vehicle works (union offi-
cials reckon 4000, one-seventh
of the total membership, have
been put-off in Australia);
droves of unskilled builders'
laborers are seeking jobs at
Melbourne Trades Hall; the
liquor trades have been hit by
the silent strike against the price
of beer; clothing-manufacturers
have held their staffs so far, but
will begin putting many off if
import-restrictions continue to
hold-up materials ; and even the
paint-manufacturers have put
off men. Yet there must be more
amateur painters than even
amateur punters in the land these
days.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUXUVAN
...
tns brv%
lackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New YorS
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"MCKSUL,'' BRISBANE
BEIXS
&*2LS
ICO* SCOTCH WH'lJffi
>iiri)UO AND ■OIIJ'OI''
- JN SCOTIAHO
Distillers ™w sco t
UTABUSHIO
V
PRODUCT OR
Can you detect
a ‘classic?
One of life’s little joys lies
in making your own dis-
coveries. Quietly finding
the best. Many a man has
been delighted to come
across Bell’s Old Scotch
Whisky. It has a magic
subtlety that only the rare,
the very best whiskies can
achieve. You have only
to open a bottle to appre-
ciate its classic bouquet
and flavour.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell <Ss Sons Ltd., Distillers,
Perth, Scotland. Established 1825.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
Your OWN Grain Storaae
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
ORB
m
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
AND AUGERS
SILOS
9 Heavy gauge galvanized
sheets
6 Easily erected—permanent
9 Rodent and weatherproof
9 Steel earth rings and load-
ing platforms available as
extras if required
9 Prompt delivery
AUGERS
9 Designed to fill and empty
Lysaght Silos
9 Segmented construction for
easy assembly and versatility
9 Unique vertical filling avoids
congestion
9 Vertical sets complete with
wall brackets, chute tubes,
eta.
AUGERS. Priced as low
as £lll. Popular type for
standard 2,000 bushel
silo, on ground level
(motor not provided),
£l3B.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
200 Bushel Silo
250 „
500
1,000
2,000 „
2,000
3.000 ~
3.500 „
4.500 ~ „
8.500 „
£47
(Elevated) £93
£79
£l36
£2oB
(Squat) £2OB
£27l
£294
£447
£7o9
Write for further information and Agents' Names to Dept. No. B*
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
SSX/54
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
MONEY for the Maoriland
Government’s £ 10-million
Progress Loan came with a
strong, late rush, resulting in a
substantial £3,058,415 oversub-
scription.
It is now thought likely that
another loan on the same terms
may be floated in October.
Meantime, most of the cream
appears to have been skimmed-
off the pool funds available for
immediate gilt-edged investment.
Prices have fallen, and yields, at
the end of July, had risen 3s. to
4s. per cent, above the Progress
Loan rates of £4 7s. 6d. per cent,
for three years, £4 10s. per cent,
for five years and £4 12s. 6d. per
cent, for 11 years.
Death-duty Stock
In one important respect new
Government loans are more
attractive than current issues.
They may be bought as death-
duty stock, which may be sur-
rendered at full par-value in
payment of death-duty, income-
tax or social-security charge by
the trustees of a deceased owner.
In the sharemarket, though
buyers are adopting a more
selective approach, and second-
class issues are becoming harder
to sell, the general tone remains
firm.
It is probably significant that
most market investors are net
savers, and, as such, are not
directly affected by the credit-
squeeze.
The market is also supported
to some extent by the operation
of tight capital-issues control,
which tends to conserve invest-
ment funds. In the first six
months of this year the Capital
Issues Committee declined or
deferred nearly 21 per cent, of
applications for issues totalling
£25 million.
A Difficult Year
Continued confidence in the
investment-market appears some-
what at variance with the rather
sombre mood prevailing in
business circles.
It is clearly going to be a diffi-
cult year for marginal businesses
as the cumulative effects of dis-
inflationary measures cut turn-
overs and profits.
Many small, undercapitalised
businesses face special difficulties.
In the post-war period of short-
ages goods flowed quickly from
producer to consumer. Little
capital or credit was required.
Now, with buyers more selective,
larger stocks must be held.
Demand for credit is thus
expanding at the very time when
sources of credit are drying up.
Larger companies are not
escaping their share of trouble,
but most of those whose shares
are commonly traded appear well
able to meet any likely reverses
without curtailing shareholders’
incomes.
First to feel the pinch were the
textile companies, already hard-
hit by the glut of imports which
followed the removal of restric-
tions at the beginning of 1955.
Feltex
Latest balance-sheet from this
group is that of Felt and Textiles
of N.Z. It shows a consolidated
net profit £17,610 down at
£86,532. The fall is attributed
mainly to the effects on cus-
tomers of the credit-squeeze and
hire-purchase control, and to
some extent to relaxation of
restrictions on imported foot-
wear.
Another sign of the times was
Ross and Glendining’s decision
to reduce the bonus payment to
a section of workers at the
Roslyn mill. The move was con-
tested by the workers, and a
compulsory conference of the
parties was ordered.
The second major group to
suffer includes building, engineer-
ing and construction companies.
According to the secretary of
the Master Builders’ Association,
the building industry in Auck-
land faces a serious shortage of
work.
The market was recently
shocked by the decision of Street
Consolidated Industries, Ltd., a
£500,000 Hamilton firm, engaged
mainly in commercial and
industrial building, to omit the
final pref. as well as ord.
dividend-payment. The co.’s
balance - sheet hasn’t yet
appeared, but it is certain that
the pref. payment will not have
been passed without reason.
Consolidated net profit of
Fletcher Holdings, the giant of
the Maoriland construction
industry, which in the year to
April, 1955, rose by £45,847 to
£311,514, this year slipped back
by £2OOO. It was the first check
for years to strongly-rising
profits. At the end of July the
co.’s shares were selling at 355.,
their lowest price for more than
18 months.
Credit Position
Material progress has been
made with the task of reducing
bank-credit. At the end of June,
compared with a year before,
advances and discounts were £l9
million down at £165 million,
and total credit-limits were £24
million down at £260 million.
The Reserve Bank announced
two minor reductions in reserve-
ratios within a fortnight in July.
The adjustments will bring
trading-banks’ borrowing from
the Reserve Bank down to about
£6 million, approximately the
amount by which overdrafts are
now regarded as excessive, com-
pared with an excess of £l5
million at the end of May.
The Reserve Bank emphasises
that no easing of credit restraint
is implied. That isn’t surprising.
A contraction of British
purchasing - power, such as
appears likely, will inevitably
make it more difficult for Maori-
land to sell increasing quantities
of farm produce at steady
prices—that is just what must be
done if living-standards are not
to fall.
Dominion Breweries shares
have fluctuated widely since the
announcement of the overseas
sale of rights to the co.’s new
brewing-process. At one stage
they were selling at £5 45., a
gain of 235. 6d. in a few weeks.
There has not yet been any
statement from the co. about the
amount received, or likely to be
received, for patent rights. Share-
holders who sold early will
hardly be very happy about it.
N.Z. Breweries, at its annual
meeting, revealed that it has
acquired the right to use
Dominion’s new process in
Maoriland, and has in fact been
using it at one brewery for the
last 18 months.
Dominion Breweries has been
waiting three years for permis-
sion to raise more capital. It
now wants to issue 200,000 £1
shares in the ratio of two for
11 at a premium of £1 each.
When the N.Z. Alliance a while
ago expressed pained surprise
that the brewery firm had been
able to increase its overdraft
from £84,000 to £139,000, the
managing-director, Mr. H. J.
Kelliher, replied that a capital-
issues approval, to which the
company was entitled, would
have made such an increase un-
necessary. Shareholders had the
funds available, but were not
permitted to use them for the
development of their own com-
pany, he said.
N.Z. Brewery shares touched
a peak for the year at the end
of July. The co.’s balance-sheet
made cheerful reading for share-
holders. Net profit was £24,926
up at £286,660, but main interest
lay in the section dealing with
reserves. Revaluation of assets
brought to light the huge sum
of £1,099,907, in addition to
which £109,890 surplus on dis-
posal of assets was transferred to
reserve.
McKenzies Department Stores,
twice refused permission to make
a capital-issue, has got round
its difficulty in a rather ingenious
way. The directors have dis-
posed of several of the co.’s
properties by way of conditional
sale. The properties are leased
back to McKenzies on a long-
term basis, with the provision
that the co. has a permanent and
definite right of repurchase. As a
result of these conditional sales,
mortgages have been reduced by
£55,000 and more than £250,000
has been provided in cash.


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Pa tons & Baldwins (Aust.), Ltd.
WHEN the present co, was formed in
** 1951, to take over the Australian
interests of Patons and Baldwins (U.K.),
Ltd., it was made clear that a conserva*
tive div.-policy would be followed to
enable the building-up of reserves. Forced
to carry-out extensive writing-down of
stocks in its first year of trading, a
meagre profit, rather than policy, caused
the passing of the ord. div., while visible
reserves remained well below intangibles.
Fluctuating wool-prices have contri-
buted to an uneven earning-rate over the
last four years, but in that time the co.
has made considerable progress,
writing-off intangibles and accumulating
reserves to the extent of £655,440. An
ord. div. of 6 p.c. was paid in 1953, and
this rate has been maintained with the
addition of a \\ p.c. bonus in the term
just completed.
The co. markets a well-known brand of
hand-knitting-wool, as well as a wide
range of yarns for the textile industry,
converting the locally-bought raw wool at
its big Launceston spinning-mill.
Of the £l£ million of ordinary stock,
£1 million is held by the English parent.
In addition, 750,000 £1 5 p.c. prefs. lift
total paid capital to £2,250,000. Still
owing to the parent-vendor is the
£1,600,000 balance of the original
purchase-price. Although regarded as an
interest-free loan repayable in 1976, the
co. has taken advantage of a prosperous
year to reduce the debt from its original
total of £1,679,016.
A much-improved turnover and the
recovery of heavily depreciated stocks
formed the basis of a successful year (to
April). Net profit at £371,011 (up
£209,271) was the highest on record,
£41,406 above the previous highest earn-
ings in 1953. Allowance for depreciation
at £39,157 was up by £5054, and tax-
provision jumped by £210,380 to
£313,200:
f Dividends —,
Pref. To Re-
May, Profit. 6 p.c. , Ord. ■, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Preliminary exes., etc., £49,727 .. 49,727
Profit sale assets, £8339 .. .. 41,388
1952.. 38,194 29,025 Nil 9,169 32,219
Added intangibles, £203 .. .. 32,422
Tax overprovided, £30,261 .. . . 2,17 l
Reserves.
1953.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 202,105 199,934
Tax overprovided, etc., £66,454 ~ 266,388
1954.. 37,500 6 = 90,000 132,904 399,292
Profit sale assets, £619 .. .. 399,911
Tax overprovided, £7B 399,989
1955.. 161.740 37,500 6 = 90,000 34,240 434,229
Tax overprovided, £2OO .. .. 434,429
1956.. 011 37,500 = 112,500 221,011 655,440
Ord. div. required an extra £22,500 for
the. 1| p.c. bonus, and, with the pref. div.,
took £150,000, leaving a substantial
£221,011 to augment reserves further.
After payment of the pref. div., ordinary
capital returned a healthy 22.2 p.c.,
following 8.3, 14.8 and 19.4 p.c. in the
previous three years.
Movements in the balance-sheet
strengthened an already sound
position:
Capital-- 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Ord 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Reserves . . .. 399,292 434,229 655,440
Deferred liability.. 1,678,946 1,678,946 1,600,000
Creditors .. .. 192,068 135,797 375,906
Tax reserve .. 169,148 103,339 313,639
Final div. .. 90,000 90,000 181,250
£4,779,454 £4,692,311 £5,326,235
Freeholds.. .. 294,495 316,390 374,991
Plant .. .. 243,008 295,255 474,984
Stocks .. ~ 2,705,380 1,905,847 1,791,534
Debtors .. .. 1,063,237 1,094,581 1,376,721
Advances .. .. 376,769 .
Cash, etc 96,565 1,080,238 1,308,005
£4,779,454 £4,692,311 £5,326,235
Remittances to the parent co. reduced the
liability in that direction by £78,946,
while working capital has improved with
holdings of cash and investments
£227,767 larger at £1,308,005, and debtors
up £282,140 to £1,376,721. Addition to
plant (up £179,729 to £474,984) and free-
hold premises (up £58,601 to £374,991)
have led to greater efficiency, creditors
(£375,906, up £240,109) and stocks
(£114,313 lower at £1,791,534) contri-
buting to the funds necessary for this
rapid growth of fixed assets.
Import-restrictions will ease overseas
competition during the current term, but
immediate prospects will be largely
determined by the movement in raw-wool
prices. The possibility of greatly
improved dividends is slight until reserves
reach more substantial proportions and
the debt to the U.K. partner is reduced.
Net tangible assets provide cover of
£3 17s. 6d. for each £1 pref., the ords.
having a backing of 28s. 9d. Prefs.
recently sold on Melbourne ’Change at
155., giving a yield of 6.6 p.c. The ords.
return 6.7 p.c. at 225. 3d.
Robert Harper & Co., Ltd.
, Dividends——
A B
Pref. Ord. Ord. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
■P. p £/£*£* &
1960.. 41,249 10,500 19,200 2400 9,149 675,726
Unexplained addition, £6813 .. .. 682,538
Profit, sale freehold, £100,932 .. 683,470
10 p.c.
1951.. 37,581 10,500 24,000 2400 681 684,161
Unexplained addition, £942 .. .. 685,093
Profit, sale assets, £5321 .. .. 690,414
8 pic.
1962.. 32,138 10,500 19,200 2400 38 690,452
Profit, sale assets, £5555 .. .. 696,007
1963.. 36,407 10,500 19,200 2400 4,307 700,314
Profit, sale assets, £504 .. .. 700,818
To long-service leave provision, £9,000 691,818
10 p.c. 6 p.c.f
1954 63,104 10,500 26,400 1200 25,004 716,822
Profit sale assets, £1714 .. .. 718,536
1955.. 58,930 10,500 28,000 20,430 738,966
To long-service leave, £3228 .. .. 735,738
Profit sale assets, £lB3 735,921
Tax overprovided, £12,010 .. .. 747,931
1956 22,676 10,500 22?400 737,707
* Subject to goodwill, £80,350. t For six months.
A LOW milling-yield from last season’s
* rice-crop more than anything else
accounted for the abrupt drop in the
earnings of Robert Harper and Co. for
the term ended March 31 last. The year
opened well, and over the first nine
months both turnover and gross profit
were better than for the corresponding
period in the preceding term. Supplies
of rice, which had fallen short of require-
ments in recent years, were available in
bigger quantities in 1956, but because of
the inferior quality an additional cost of
some £30,000 had to be absorbed by the
co. in March, 1956. Bad seasonal con-
ditions and a serious decline in prices
resulted in a “substantial” loss to the co.,
too, in its oats business.
Written after providing £30,884 (down
£1753) depreciation and £20,000 taxation
(not disclosed last year), the £22,676 profit
was the lowest recorded since 1914, the
year in which the co.’s accounts were first
presented to the public.
During the 40-odd years intervening,
Harper’s profit and dividend record has
been unusually good, despite trade-
slumps and the competitiveness of the
dry-goods business. For the decade 1915
to 1924 the co. averaged ord. divs.
of 7.8 p.c., 8.4 p.c. over the following
10 years, and 8.1 p.c. the next 10. Since
1944 average distribution has been 9.2
p.c. Strength of earnings has owed a lot
to the size of reserves backing the co.’s
paid capital, £737,707 at March 31.
Harper’s products include a number
of well-known proprietary grocery-lines
(breakfast-foods, jellies, starch, self-
raising flour, custard- and curry-powders,
essences, spices, etc.) turned out in
factories at Melbourne, Brisbane, Sydney,
Fremantle and Adelaide, where over the
last few years a considerable amount has
been spent modernising and extending
facilities.
New breakfast-food lines added to the
range of food products by the acquisition
of Malties Pty., Ltd., at the close of the
1955 term have proved “worth while.”
Both the quality of the products and
their packing are reported to have been
improved.
A very comfortable state of finances is
disclosed by the balance-sheet figures:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Ord 280,000 280,000 280,000
Reserves . . .. 716,822 735,738 737,707
Overdraft .. .. 5,360 93,601 75,010
Creditors, etc. .. 134,000-' 118,769 118,366
Tax provision .. 50,259 48,521 20,000
Staff fund . . 19,000 22,000 24,442
Final dividend .. 16,800 16,800 11,200
£1,372,851 £1,465,429 £1,416,725
Freeholds .. 390,228 401,933 415,888
Plant, etc. .. 317,657 321,181 311,157
Stocks .. , . . 324,568 392,614 357,970
Debtors .. . . 173,744 184,355 166,424
Govt. securities,
cash, etc. .. 86,654 84,996 84,936
Goodwill, etc. .. 80,000 80,350 80,350
£1,465,429 £1,416,725
Notwithstanding a 10 p.c. increase in
turnover, fewer debtors (down £17,931 to
£166,424) and stocks (down £34,644 to
£357,970) were carried at the end of the
year, enabling the co. to lean less on
bank-overdraft (down £18,591 to £75,010)
and creditors. Working-capital amounted
to £360,312, a decline of only £1962 over
12 months. Investment in freehold
properties increased £13,955, representing
purchase of a factory-site with a railway-
siding at Spotswood (Vic.) to provide
for future expansion. Investments, in at
cost at £83,696, including £38,321 of
shares in companies formed to mill rice
in N.S.W., were unchanged, but the co.
transferred a further £2500 to its reserves
(now £17,500) against possible losses
from this source.
Including the investments reserve in
calculating net tangible cover for the
150,000 7 p.c. prefs. is £7 ss. a share and
for the 280,000 £1 ords. 675. Last sale
of the prefs. was at 20s. 6d., to return
6.8 p.c., and the ords. at 345. yield 4.7
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. Sellers asked
30s. for the shares recently, but without
interesting prospective buyers.
Motors, Ltd. (Adelaide)
SHAREHOLDERS had a very long
wait before seeing any worth-while
return from their investment, but over
the last eight years sizeable profits have
turned-up regularly, approaching, and in.
one year, exceeding, the value of paid-up
capital.
In spite of the handsome dividends
(averaging 29.5 p.c. over the last five
years), a generous share of earnings has
gone to reserves, which in April, ’ssjr
comprised over 75 p.c. of shareholders’
funds. Compared with the results of
recent years, net profit for the term
ended April, ’56, was only fair ; however,
no one should complain, for earnings
showed a return of 40 p.c. on capital,
and comfortably covered a 25 p.c. div.
A two-for-five par issue towards the
end of 1955 raised paid capital .to
£140,000 in ss. shares. A resolution
passed at the time of this issue enables
directors, “at their discretion,” to issue
40,000 employee shares at par, and a
further 20,000 shares at a 2s. 6d. premium
to business associates.
Holding the South Australian franchise
for Rolls-Royce and Hudson cars as well
as the products of the Nuffield division of
8.M.C., the co. was first listed on the
Adelaide ’Change in 1925, 14 years after
its formation. An undisclosed portion of
turnover comes from the servicing of
motor-vehicles, the sale of used cars and
accessories, and Electrice refrigerators.
Although there was a small increase
in the number of new vehicles delivered
during the year, competitive trading
reduced profit-margins, and expenses
took a bigger share of the lower gross
earnings (down £32,248 at £314,751).
After allowing for depreciation and pro-
viding £22,600 (down £8400) for taxation,
net profit was £29,206 under that of the
previous term at £55,981:
To Re- Re-
April, Profit, f- —Dividends—serves, serves.
1951.. 98,216 374 p.c. = 37,5001
To staff fund, £7500 .. f 61,966 151,835
Other provisions, £1250 . . J
Underprovision taxation, £9156 .. 142,679
1952. .127,475 30 p.c. = 30,000 ]
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. i 87,225 229,904.
Other provisions, £250 ..J
1953.. 67,084 30 p.c. = 30,000 1
To staff fund, £2500 .. }■ 34,334 264,238
Other provisions, £250 .. j
Profit sale assets, £3981 .. .. 268,219
1954:. 75,574 30 p.c. = 30,000 \ , 0 m
To staff fund, £5400 .. J 40,174 308,398
Tax underprovided, £28,519 .. .. 279,874
1955.. 85,187 32£ p.c. = 32,500 Kfit - „, Q K o Q
To staff fund, £13,022 .. j 89,665 319,539
1956.. 55,981 25 p.c. = 31,667 ] 0410,0
To staff fund, £2500 31,314 341,3 ' j 3
On the enlarged capital the return was
a shade under 40 p.c., against 75.6, 67,
127.4, 98.2 and 92.4 p.c. back to 1951.
Reserves were £21,814 stronger at
£319,539, after sending £2500 to the staff
fund and handing-out £31,667 in divi-
dends.
The opening of the new Port Lincoln
branch and the acquisition of an estab-
lished service-station contributed to the
increase of £45,449 (to £261,720) in the
conservatively stated fixed assets. The
balance-sheet figures reflect the recent
prosperity of the co., shareholders’ funds
amounting to 73.1 p.c. of balance-sheet
totals:
1954. 1955. 1966.
Paid capital ~ .. £lOO,OOO £100,006 £140,000
Reserves .. . . 308,393 319,539 341,353
Creditors and deposits 58,313 110,710 92,492
Tax provision .. .. 32,644 35,560 58,160
Other provisions .. 5,856 6,548 6,134
Staff funds, etc. .. 7,500 2,500
Final divs 17,500 17,500 17,500
£522,706 £597,357 £658,139
Freeholds and machinery,
etc 158,952 216,271 261,720
Stocks 143,826 219,491 244,129
Debtors 94,434 118,104 92,955
Cash, and shares . .. 125,494 43,491 59,335
£522,706 £597,357 £658,139
A fall in “creditors and deposits” is mainly
due to the big drop in deposits (£15,701
lower at 7613), and, with debtors down
by £25,149, gives an indication of the
changed conditions in the new-car
market.
The popular Morris Minor and Morris
Oxford were more freely available
towards the end of the term, but the
latest import-cuts will limit the pro-
duction of B.M.C. vehicles. With the
stiff rate of sales-tax already affecting
orders, however, the co.’s main task in
the current year will be the maintenance
of a high level of sales in a strongly
competitive market.
Each ss. share is supported by tangible
assets of 17s. 2d. Last sales were at 10s.,
to yield 12.5 p.c. from a 25 p.c. distribu-
tion.
McDonnell & East, Ltd. (Bris.)
HTHE continued interest in Queensland
representation displayed by southern
retailers, and a 36 p.c. jump in net profit,
have pushed the £1 ord. shares in this old-
established Brisbane co. from 245. 6d. to
31s. 6d. over the last 15 months. At this
price the buyer would receive a return of
6.3 p.c., the last div. having been lifted
from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. Net tangible cover
is 325. 7d. after satisfying holders of the
rarely seen 8 p.c. prefs.
Close to the main shopping-centre the
co. was formed in 1920, taking-over an
existing drapery business. Reorganisation
and stock difficulties were followed by the
1930 slump, so that dividends averaged
only a little over 4 p.c. for the first 15
years. In the post-war years earnings
have improved, the div. reaching 8 p.c.
in 1948, at which level it remained (plus
a 2 p.c. bonus in ’5l) until 1955. Paid
capital of £295,427 includes 9000 £1 prefs.
Continuing the progress shown in the
previous term, net profit for the year
ended Jan., ’56, rose by £10,939 to
£41,149 after providing £27,500 (up
£11,000) for taxation. Higher gross earn-
ings (up £55,729 to £324,663) successfully
countered the extra £32,990 swallowed by
expenses (£254,414):
r-*' Dividends—— N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord.* serves, serve*.
£ £ £ £ £
1960.. 34,099 720 8 p.c. =--14,882 18,497 148,912
Reserves disappear, £10,524 .. .. 188,888
1961.. 50,816 720 10 p.c. =18,603 81,492 169,879
Revaluation assets, £53,348 .. .. 223,227
Reserves disappear, £13,085 .. .. 210,142
1952.. 28,449 720 8 p.c. =15,846 11,883 222,025
Reserves disappear, £11,528 .. .. 210,497
1953.. 29,823 720 8 p.c. =22,882 6,221 216,718
Reserves disappear, £9182 .. .. 207,536
1954.. 19,591 720 8 p.c. =22,882 203,525
From tax reserve, £11,331 net .. 214,856
1955.. 30,211 720 8 p.c. =22,882 6,609 221,465
1956.. 41,149 720 10 ~ ~=28,602 11,827 233,292
* Includes special payments to directors to 1951.
After payment of the small pref. div.,
the return on ord. capital was 14.1 p.c.
(against 10.3, 6.6, 10.2, and 29.1 p.c. in
the four preceding years), easily covering
the increased div. Reserves were
strengthened by £11,827, and at £233,292
have more than doubled over the last
10 3'ears.
Working-capital increased slightly over
the term, being £2381 higher at
£294,522:
Paid 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £9,000 £ 9,000 £9,000
Ord 286,027 286,027 286,027
Reserves . . .. 203,525 221,464 233,290
Mortgages .. .. 903 902 902
Overdraft . . .. 150,143 121,909 167,690
Creditors . . .. 73,105 66,815 78,241
Staff fund . . . . 13,500 13,500
Tax provision . . .. 36,581 20,564 31,176
Final divs 13,591 13,591 15,021
£772,875 £753,772 £834,847
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 234,062 238,752 248,197
Stocks . . .. .. 431,55 8 3 89,31 5 433,944
Book debts .. .. 105,020 121,110 145,816
Cash, etc. .. .. 2,235 4,595 6,890
£772,875 £753,772 £834,847
Capital-expenditure added £9445 to the
book-value of plant and premises, while
stocks increased by £44,629 and debtors
by £24,706. To help meet the outlay,
bank-overdraft was stretched by another
£45,781 to £167,690, and £11,426 was
added to the amount due to creditors.
If the co. can keep rising expenses in
check, it should share profitably in the
expanding Brisbane retail market. Lively
competition can be expected, however, as
cos. recently “taken-over” set out to
enlarge their share of the trade and over-
come shortages caused by the reduced
flow of imports.
Morflock Bros., Ltd.
TN an unfortunate combination of
circumstances, some temporary, others
with effects which are likely to be more
lasting, Mortlock Bros.’ earnings slumped
heavily last year. Felt in all departments,
but most severely in the car section of this
W.A. distributor of motor-cars and
-cycles, Ferguson tractors and agricul-
tural - implements, the credit - squeeze,
increased sales-tax and delays in delivery
of the new-model Vanguard showed in a
drop in the parent’s profit, after providing
£ll7O more for depreciation and £34,932
less for taxation, of £73,805:
f— Dividends
Pref. ■ To Re- Re-
May Profit. A B Ord. Total, serves. serves.
31, £ p.e. p.c. p.c. £ £ £ _
From provisions, £41,242 .. .. 59,773
Freehold revaluation res., £24,057.. 83,830
Share premiums, £46,673 .. .. 130,503
’60.. 95,957 5 14.6 30=14,893 81,064 211,567
Reserves capitalised, £54,991 . • 156,576
’61..143,346 5 14.6 30 = 55,452 87,894 244,470
Loss sale bonds, £1914 .. .. 242,556
i Dividends
A Pref. Ord.
s 5 p.c. SO p.c.
’52..119,3 9 5 2,453 51,903 65,039 307,59 a
’53.-127,046 2,453 51,903 72,690 380,285
Share premiums, £1125 .. •• 381,410
’54.-135,747 2,453 53,976 79,318 460,728
’55-110,395 2,453 53,976 53,966 514,694
61 p.c. 20 p.c.
’56.. 36,590 3,189 35,984 512,111
After satisfying the pref. charges (upped
from 5 p.c. to p.c. as from June 1,
1955) the £36,590 was equal to 18.6 p.c.
on the £179,918 of paid-up ordinary
capital, a comparatively lean harvest when
measured against the gatherings of


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
ney*, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Holder Large Potentially
Valuable
RUTILE AREAS,
Queensland, requires assist-
ance from sound company
to test and exploit.
Contact
BEACH SANDS,
P.O. Box 73,
South Brisbane
General Credits Ltd.
offers
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly
free of exchange. Cumu-
lative stock carrying 7%
compounded on yearly rests
with currencies of 5 to IS
years. Prospectus available at
all branches of Commonwealth
Trading Bank of Australia,
Members of the Stock Exchange
and Offices of the Company.
Short Term
per cent.
- - 3'/ 2
4
3 months
6 // ■
(S«Tf
Long Term
per cent.
years - - - 5 3 A
- - - 6V2
... 7
1
//
5 to 10 years
15 years
Vfi
DIRECTORS :
Sir John Newman-Morris,
C.M.G. (Chairman), J. M.
Ford, V. H. Stanley-Low
(Managing), E. W. Cox,
i John Glen, Erie Hughes,
J. F. Hughes, F. G.
In Menzies, C.B.E.
General Credits Ltd. is sponsored by the
Automobile Fire and General insurance
Company of Australia Limited.
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute an invitation
to subscribe for the debenture stock mentioned herein.
UNDERWRITERS :
J. B. WERE
& SON
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Maliers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Fuitti in ttie
Future
When I hear of the work being done at the
Mary Kathleen uranium field near Cloncurry,
Queensland, I think: “Well, Australian living can
be just as vital today as ever it was —for those who
are prepared to take its opportunities.”
Less than two years ago all was wilderness at
the Mary Kathleen site. Now there are buildings,
miles of roads, an airstrip, modem houses, an
open-air picture theatre, a newly opened school —
fruits of a £ 10-million programme for development
of the huge ore body in the leases.
Two years hence, when a treatment plant
should be operating, it is expected that half a
million tons of uranium ore will have been
stockpiled, ready to start fulfilment of a £4O-million
contract with the United Kingdom for the supply
of nuclear fuel.
It is an enormous- story, and it is only
beginning: a story of overseas and Australian
interests combining to tap the ground wealth of a
continent in which the full mineral potential has
not yet been measured.
But this, as I see it, is the real story behind
the Mary Kathleen, and the Northern Territory’s
Rum Jungle, and South Australia’s Radium Hill,
and every other important discovery of recent times:
the years bring their own cycles of opportunity.
A prospector named Campbell Miles sent in
a few outcrop samples for assay from the depressed
Cloncurry mineral field in 1923 —and out of that
has grown the fabulous silver-lead-zinc-copper mine
at Mount Isa.
Paddy Hannan, in search of water, came upon
a few pieces of alluvial at Kalgoorlie in 1893
and Australia had hit upon the Golden Mile, which
was to yield more than one thousand-tons of gold,
and set the prosperous foundation of the nation’s
West.
You see, these are the things, momentous and
unforeseen, that mark our continuing history, bring
other progress in their wake —and enliven our Faith
in Australia’s future.
earlier years: 60 p.c. in ’55,
74.1 p.c. ’54, 72 p.c. ’53, 67.1 p.c.
'52 and 83.3 p.c. in ’5l. Reserves
were drawn on to make up the
20 p.c. div. (against 30 p.c.)
distributed to ord. shareholders.
The Federal Government’s
credit policy appears to have
been felt very much more
severely in W.A. than in other
Australian States, but judging
by the account of the managing-
director at the annual meeting,
the difficulty of making sales
was rather less significant in
explaining why the year went so
badly than the problem of main-
taining supplies:
For almost half last year the
company was without stocks of the
most popular-selling-model, namely,
the Vanguard saloon. Early this
financial year it was anticipated that
the new-model Mark 111 Vanguard
saloon would be available for
announcement early in October, so
every effort was made to clear stocks
of the current Vanguard saloon so
as to be ready for the new model.
Unfortunately there were delays in
delivery from the works in England,
followed by an English shipping strike,
and body-production in Australia was
further delayed due to an Australian
wharf-laborers’ strike, so it was late
in April before the Australian-
produced car was available in Western
Australia.
Following the purchase of a
20-acre site at Wembley last year,
the co. has erected a building
where it now assembles its own
cars. Land has also been
acquired in Murray-street, and
the tractor division transferred
from rented premises in Subiaco
to new showrooms in West
Perth.
Balance-sheet figures reflect
these acquisitions and the slower
trading:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £49,060 £49,060
Ord 179,918 179,91 S
Reserves .. .. 514,712 512,111
Overdraft .. 85,014 57,885
Creditors .. .. 165,657 183,122
Tax provision .. 59,336 24,422
Dividends .. 56,429 39,173
£1,110,126 £1,045,691
Freeholds .. 155,380 225,972
Leaseholds .. 29,688 29,369
Plant, etc. .. 20,692 25,150
Stock .. .. 739,022 635,928
Debtors .. .. 163,043 126,871
Cash, shares, etc. 2,301 2,401
£1,110,126 £1,045,691
Reduced by £77,332, working
capital still amounted to the
comfortable figure of £460,598,
and current assets were two-and-
a-half times all outside liabilities.
Despite the improvement in
deliveries in recent months, the
directors are not optimistic about
the current term. Imports have
lately been further restricted,
credit remains tight, and
working-expenses are higher.
The co.’s 10s. ords. last sold
on Perth ’Change for 275., to
give a return of 7.4 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
asset cover for the ords. is
38s. 6d. and for the £1 prefs.
£l5 2s.
Consolidated Zinc Corp., Ltd.
T>ETWEEN them the Govern-
ments of N.S.W., the Com-
monwealth and the United
Kingdom made off in royalties
and taxes with the whole of the
extra operating profit earned by
London-registered Consolidated
Zinc Corporation last year.
Mine-output was a record,
smelting and other activities
progressed satisfactorily, higher
prices were realised for lead and
zinc, and investments returned
more ; but, after excluding the
interest of minority share-
holders and setting aside
£1,095,859 (up £153,186) for
depreciation, £914,653 (up
£321,364) for State mining-
royalties, and £2,921,629 (up
£517,931) for Australian and
U.K. tax, final net profit was
struck at £2,344,928 (all figures
in sterling), £38,450 less than
was claimed in 1954, and equal
to 24.6 p.c. on issued ord. capital
(after satisfying pref. charges),
as against 28.9 p.c. in 1954, 19.5
p.c. 1953, 23.9 p.c. 1952 and
35.1 p.c. in 1951:
Consolidated Zinc and Subsidiaries.
(After eliminating outside interests.)
(All amounts in sterling.)
f Dividends— —^
Pref. Ord. Re-
Dec., Profit. 4$ p.c. 20 p.c. serves.t
’51..2,404,708 105,760 687,535 5,895,512
Provision written back,
£180,334 .. .. 6,075,846
Surplus on acquisition,
£20,705 .. .. 6,096,551
Tax overprovided, £73,958. . 6,170,509
Unexp. addition, £2619 .. 6,173,128
15 p.c.
’52..1,671,150 105,760 532,021 7,206,497
Tax overprovided, £440,977 7,647,474
Profit sale investments,
£72,424 .. .. 7,719,898
Unexp. addition, £1025 . . 7,720,923
’53..1,393,022 110,796 540,206 8,462,943
Tax overprovided, £84,281.. 8,547,224
From other prov’s, £57,209 8,604,433
Profit sale assets, £37,747.. 8,642,180
18J p.c.
’54..2,383,378 110,796 852,597 10,062,165
Tax overprovided, £42,320. . 10,104,485
Profit sale assets, £7757.. 10,112,242
W/o subsidiaries’ assets,
£923,596 ... . . 9,188,646
22J p.c.
’55..2,344,928 196,167 1,129,521 10,207,886
* Rate is declared rate, but amount is
shown less English income tax. f Excludes
specific provisions, £1,785,646, 31/12/’65.
Ord. div. was lifted 3f p.c. to
22% p.c., which, after allowing
for U.K. income tax at Bs. 6d.
in the £ and exchange at the
current rate, was equal to 16.18
p.c. in Australian currency.
Profits of the individual sub-
sidiaries are not disclosed. In
Australia the Zinc Corporation’s
mine at Broken Hill produced a
record 645,959 tons (up 51,480
tons) of ore at a lower average
cost per ton and milled 652,726
tons (up 59,517 tons) of lower-
grade ore for 83,479 tons (up
1558 tons) of recoverable lead,
1,832,8930 z. (down 13640 z.) of
silver and 116,645 tons (up 5673
tons) of 52.6 p.c. zinc concen-
trates. Calculated ore-reserves
at December 31, 1955, were
unchanged at 5,300,000 tons,
averaging 15.1 p.c. lead, 2.9 p.c.
silver and 11.2 p.c. zinc.
The position of the associated
co., New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, whose mine is adjacent
to the Zinc Corp.’s at the Barrier,
was reviewed by the “Wild Cat”
on July 18. Broken Hill Asso-
ciated Smelters (in which a 50
p.c. interest is held) had another
successful year treating lead-
concentrates and completed con-
struction of the sintering and
gas-cleaning plant at the
sulphuric-acid works at Port
Pirie.
All-round progress is also
reported by Consolidated Zinc’s
subsidiaries. At Cockle Creek,
where the Sulphide Corp. has
installed equipment to burn
pyrites from Mt. Morgan, acid
production is to be maintained
from brimstone pending modifi-
cations to plant. As the result of
plant-extensions completed in
1954 and operation of the new
contact sulphuric-acid plant from
early 1955, superphosphate pro-
duction rose last year by almost
60 p.c., but because supplies of
shell have been exhausted cement
production has been discon-
tinued since the end of the term.
Work proceeded on construc-
tion of Titanium and Zir-
conium Industries’ plant and
facilities on Stradbroke Is., off
the Queensland south coast,
aimed at more than doubling
rutile and zircon production
from beach sands. A substantial
part of planned output over the
next three years has already been
sold at “satisfactory” prices.
In the United Kingdom the
Imperial Smelting Corp. in-
creased production of zinc-
metal and -alloy and most
chemicals.
Capital - expenditure during
the year amounted to £1,352,839,
of which more than half was
in respect of Cockle Creek
(N.S.W.) and Stradbroke Is.,
financed largely by ord. share-
capital and retained profits:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
£Stg. £Stg.
Pref 4,476,626 7,581,340
Ord 7,865,007 8,730,596
Reserves .. ..10,062,165 10,207,886
Specific provisions 1,698,010 1,785,646
Outside interests.. 2,091,595 138,113
Debentures, .. 1,449,231 1,769,931
Creditors .. .. 2,604,422 2,776,185
Tax provision, etc. 3,702,017 5,772,814
Final divs. .. 907,995 1,227,605
£34,857,068 £39,990,116
Mine property .. 4,224,372 4,224,372
Freehold, plant, etc. 9,095,673 9,401,846
Trade investments 3,960,432 4,129,662
Stocks . . .. 6,539,621 7,938,742
Book debts .. 3,236,044 3,828,620
Cash, etc 7,800,926 10,182,930
Intangibles .. 283,944
£34,857,068 £30,990,116
Acquisition of the whole of the
pref. captial of Imperial Smelt-
ing Corp. on a share-exchange
and cash basis accounted for the
increase in Consolidated Zinc’s
own pref.-capital account and
the appearance of £283,944
intangibles, representing the
excess of cost of the shares over
the book-value of net assets
acquired.
Buyers offered 60s. 6d. for
the ords. on Sydney ’Change last
week. The immediate return at
60s. 6d. on the adjusted div.-
figure of 16.18 p.c., as calcu-
lated previously, would be 5.3
p.c.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
Flowers seemed to come back into
Sydney life this week, bringing the scents
of spring with daphne, lily-of-the-valley,
daffodils and violets, replacing the
brilliant but scentless poinsettia and the
sturdy, pungent marigold which are all
that winter has to offer.
It is sad to see that the fashion for
wearing flowers is almost defunct. Once
a great wad of violets was the thing for
spring, but today a posy is seldom seen,
either for day or evening, except for a
camellia or an occasional orchid. It all
comes from passion for austerity in
flower-arrangements. Perhaps the next
thing will be clever little buttonholes of
driftwood, skeleton-leaves, honesty and
dried pea-pods.
Still, there were some really lovely
flower-arrangements at the Garden
Club’s reception in honor of U.K. High
Commissioner Sir Stephen Holmes and
Lady Holmes at Prince’s. Ambassador
for the Philippines Dr. R. Regala and
Madame Regala broke the news there
that they are to leave us soon, first to
return home, and then to be posted to
either Paris or Rome. Mrs. Arthur
Davis, president of the club, did the
welcoming of guests, who included Sir
Frank and Lady Berryman, Mr. and
Mrs. J. Sopoushek, Mrs. G. A. Fenton,
Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Scammell, and Mrs.
J. Moody, who came down from Cessnock
specially for the party.
ft ft ft
The biggest and most colorful occasion
of the week was undoubtedly the Inter-
national Ball at the Trocadero on Thurs-
day night. Mrs. C.. M. Guiney, wearing
a striking dress of cream satin hand-
embroidered with tiny satin roses and
crystal-flowers, was hostess. Guest-of-
honor was the Lieutenant-Governor, Sir
Kenneth Street. Air - Vice - Marshal
Walters and Mrs. Walters were in the
large and brilliant official party, which
included representatives of every Embassy
and Consulate.
There were nearly 900 present, and
they were entertained by a pageant of
the nations, a display of national dancing
(which went on perhaps a little too long),
a solo on the Swiss horn (which is 4ft.
long, and comes in useful when one gets
tired of yodelling), and the spectacle of
candle-lit tables lavishly decorated with
gondolas, Norwegian longboats, glitter-
ing, gyrating globes of the world (on
the table of Mr. and Mrs. Ron Lay), a
life-size figure of peace, tiny model
villages and flowers of every description.
ft ft ft
A note for aunts' and others with
Christmas already in mind: the picture-
book judged to be the best for the year
by the Children’s Book Council is Wish
and the Magic Nut, by Peggy Barnard,
with delightful koala-illustrations by
Sheila Hawkins. The best Australian
book is The Crooked Snake, by Patricia
Wrightson, illustrated by Margaret
Horder. It is about a group of children
living in a small country town.
Also commended are John of the
Sirius, by Doris Chadwick, a First Fleet
story from a child’s standpoint.
Penguin Road, by Ken Dalziel, a child’s
book about life on Heard Island, and
Birds of Australia in Color, by Lyla
Stevens, which is a beautiful book with
excellent illustrations.
ft ft ft
Poker-machines are in the news at
the moment, so Mr. Wal Simon, in the
comic sketcfe which he wrote (and per-
formed) for the annual dance of the
Main Roads Board’s Recreation Club,
made the suggestion that bundy-clocks
should work on the same principle.
Certainly only nuts and bolts fell out of
the one he had in the sketch, but it is
quite an idea.
The dance, held at Prince’s on Friday
night, was a great success, bevies of
beautiful young girls in ballerinas
dancing to background of road-signs such
as Causeway, Main Crossing, etc., and
benignly watched by many of the board’s
executives, including Commissioner
H. M. sfeerrard (with Mrs. Sherrard),
Mr. J. A. Shaw, and Messrs. C. A.
Hawkins, J. A. Farley and K. E.
Blacker and their wives. President of
the ball-committee was Mr. Noel Pelly,
that indefatigable young man-about-town
who was also, one noted, to the fore at
the Sunday-night film-show held at
Legion House in aid of the Catholic
Welfare Bureau. Mrs. J. H. Pelly is
president of the ladies’ auxiliary which
organised the well-attended party.
ft ft ☆
Prince’s was full to overflowing for
the gala-dinner and preview of Henriette
Lamotte’s spring collection on Thurs-
day. The party was in aid of the Royal
Blind Society (via the Black and White
Ball committee), and president Mr.
Justice Maxwell was present with Mrs.
Maxwell.
The dressing was very elegant, with
jersey and delustred satin perhaps taking
the honors. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere,
president of the ball-committee, wore
rose-beige jersey classically folded and
draped ; Mrs. Roy Buckland also wore
jersey, in mole-grey, with the neckline
threaded with mink. Mrs. Noel Vincent’s
short navy satin, richly embroidered with
clusters of field-flowers, was a model by
Balmain; Mrs. John Atwill wore a
lovely dress of jewel-green satin.
An added attraction was “The Lamotte
Story,” told in hats worn by well-known
Sydney women. Only about eight hats
were shown, cute little doll-hats, which
sat right over the forehead (Mrs. Rex
Money looked most attractive in a pale-
blue one of these), snoods filled with
flowers, a neat little pillbox worn by
Mrs. Alan Copeland, a yellow bowler, a
sideways “profile” feat with (rememfeer
them?) walnut-shells, and a couple of
other types going back over the past 17
years.
Leslie Baillieu, who is the younger
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Baillieu,
of Tongi, Cassilis, and Darling Point,
has recently become engaged to Douglas
Pickering, son of the Alan Pickerings, of
Roseville. They have fixed their wedding-
date at April 26 next year, immediately
following the Royal Easter Show. Both
Leslie and Douglas left for Brisbane last
Sunday to compete in equestrian events
at the Royal Show there. Photo by
Norton-Trevaire.
The opening night of the Phillip-
street Theatre’s new witty revue, “Around
the Loop,” seemed to be a night-out for
the radio and theatrical professions. It
reminded one of Ouida’s famous lines,
“Everyone rowed fast, but none so fast
as the stroke,” because everyone acted
well, but none so well as the audience.
Certainly everyone looked very nice, and
it was amusing to hear the mellifluous
voices crying “Darling Letty” and
“Bettina, my sweet,” etc., but it’s a bit
irritating when you can’t hear the jokes
for the cries of delight from the audi-
ence. The show, by the way, is a
sparkling cracker, as gay a commentary
on Sydney life as you could wish to
find.
& V V
A date to be reserved during the
Spring Meeting week is Friday, October
5, when a gala-preview of the Chips
Rafferty color-film on New Guinea,
“Walk Into Paradise,” will be given at
the Metro Theatre, King’s Cross, in aid
of the Red Cross appeal for a new wing
to the Lady Gowrie Home at Gordon.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere is at the head of
the Red Cross gala-committee formed
during the week. It should be a very
glamorous occasion, and, of course, in
such a wonderful cause. The tickets,
two-guineas and one-guinea, can be had
from Red Cross headquarters.
MELBOURNE
A large gilt eagle and crown were
superimposed on the mirrors in the foyer
of the St. Kilda Palais de Danse when
the annual ball of the president and
members of the R.A.A.F. Headquarters
Officers’ Mess was held. On each side of
the foyer were the Australian Ensign and
the Ensign of the R.A.A.F. The 800
guests were received by mess-president
Group-Capt. C. W. Pearce and Mrs.
Pearce, whilst Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley and Lady McCauley received
the official guests, among whom were
Vice-Admiral R. R. Dowling and his
wife, Sir George Jones, Air-Marshal Sir
Richard Williams and Lady Williams (she
in bouffant black tulles), Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. E. C. Wackett (her
gown of deep-red velvet), Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. E. A. Daley, (her
attractive gown of junior-blue marquisette
having bands of white guipure-lace on
skirt and strapless bodice).
Lady Wackett’s dark-grey chiffons were
beautifully embroidered; Mrs. A.
Murdoch danced in pale-lilac satins ; Mrs.
Malcolm McArthur’s cinnamon-brown
lace gown had a band of mink outlining
the strapless bodice; Mrs. F. R. W.
Scherger, wife of Air-Vice-Marshal
Scherger, was attractive in royal-blue
chiffon.
# * *
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
guests at the wedding of Peter Howson
(M.H.R. for Fawkner) and Christine
(Kitty) Synnot when they married at
Christ Church, South Yarra. Given away
by her brother, Commander T. Synnot,
R.A.N., the bride wore a gown of white
guipure-lace over satin, made with long
sleeves, boat-shaped neckline and a very
full skirt with a train. A coronet of
stiffened lace held her tulle veil, and she
carried hyacinths and gardenias.
The bride’s four nieces—ranging in age
from 12 to 15—were bridesmaids; they
were Lavinia and Annabel Lewis, Jennifer
Synnot and Mary Hawker. They wore
long white velvet dresses, had bands of
white satin ribbon in their hair, and
carried little posies of spring flowers.
Commander Anthony Synnot, R.A.N.,
was best man. Boy Scouts from Peter’s
electorate formed a guard-of-honor as the
bridal party left for the reception at
the Hotel Windsor.
■ft ☆ *
Operation Gratitude, the appeal now
in progress for R.S.L. funds to help ex-
servicemen and -women and returned
war nurses, benefited to the extent of
£lOOO from the dinner-dance given by
courtesy of the management of the Savoy-
Plaza Hotel, which also celebrated the
opening of their Rainbow Room.
Mrs. Leo, Curtis, president of the
organising-committee, wore a sheath-
gown of beige guipure-lace. The Lady
Mayoress (Lady Selleck) wore blue lace
and tulle. Ticket-secretaries were Mrs.
James Buchanan, whose short full frock
of grey silk-taffeta had the skirt woven
through in a basket-weave, and Mrs.
Ronald Marriott, whose short frock of
black taffeta featured a bell-skirt.
Noted also were the Ivan Guests, Mr.
and Mrs. John Buckland, Mr. and Mrs.
Brendan McGuinness, Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside, Mr. and Mrs. John Car-
rodus, the Keith Normans, Lady Con-
nelly, the A. L. Abrahams and Mr. and
Mrs. Alan Murray, U.S. Consul-General
Gerald Warner and Mrs. Warner, Mr.
and Mrs. John Casson, Rear-Admiral
R. S. Wellby and Mrs. Wellby, Captain
and Mrs. Farnfield, Colonel and Mrs.
A. R. Garrett, and Mrs. Roy Chambers.
ft ft ft
Many of the ceremonies associated with
life in Switzerland were enacted at the
dance given by the Swiss Club in the
Prahran Town Hall. Swiss residents
celebrated their National Day in national
dress. Recordings of the bells of the
homeland were played, there was a bril-
liant lantern-procession, folk-dancing and
yodelling. Consul for Switzerland M.
Paul-Emile Cattin and Madame Cattin
were present, she wearing an attractive
navy - and - white - patterned gown. Of
turquoise - blue paper - taffeta was the
frock worn fey the Mayoress of Prahran,
Mrs. M. Smith. Mrs. E. Buff, wife of
the president of the Swiss Club, wore blue
brocades.
☆ * ☆
Cotton sweaters in many designs and
styles were shown by Crestknit at a
parade held in the Rainbow Room of
the Savoy-Plaza Hotel. An important
feature of these garments was the cotton-
yarn coated with nylon. These Nycote
sweaters are quick to dry, will not stretch
or fade, are hard-wearing and yet are as
soft as wool. Among the styles shown
was an Italian-inspired design with a
calyx-neckline, and there was a long,
loose jacket with short sleeves, excellent
for sports-wear. Smart companions to
summer-frocks were the neat dolman-
sleeved cardigans, patterned or plain, and
seen in a range of pastels. Crestknit
stockings are also nylon-coated, and
allow the stockings to “breathe.”
Mrs. Roy Johnson, a charming South
Carolinian American now living in East
Malvern, is the wife of Dr. Johnson, of
the U.S. Foreign Office. The mother of
three young children, Mrs. Johnson is an
active member of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital.
Elizabeth Grant! eld, only daughter of
Mrs. Richards, of Hawthorn, and the
late Mr. Norman Richards, chose a gown
of cream delustred satin when she was
married at Melbourne Grammar School
Chapel. The bouffant skirt extended to
a train, and the bodice featured a yoke
of Brussels-lace. The bride also wore
her mother’s wedding-veil of Brussels-
lace, this arranged to form a tiny petal
cap. Carrying a bouquet of white
hyacinths, she was given away by her
brother Peter. The two bridesmaids,
Kathryn Aikman and Lynette Barber,
wore Empire-line gowns of apricot
organza. The bridegroom, Francis Grey
Smith, js the younger son of Mrs. H. C. G.
Macindoe and the late Judge Macindoe.
John Mitchell was best man and George
Derham groomsman. Reception for 160
guests was held at Ciro’s.
☆ ☆ ☆
Appropriately, the decor for the Wool
Ball at the Royale Ballroom to assist
Opportunity Clubs included white lambs
chasing one another over fences ; while
backing the official enclosure was a
large map of Australia made of wool,
along with a large golden figure of a
sheep.
Organising-committee president Jane
Hennessy wore a gown of cinnamon-
brown Chantilly-lace and tulle, with a
turquoise-blue satin sash ending at the
back in a large bustle-bow centred with a
cluster of large pink roses. Committee-
secretary Marigold Baker chose a wide-
skirted frock of pastel-pink tulle. Ticket-
secretary Patricia Mildred’s frock of
powder-blue tulle had side-panniers of
ice-blue satin draped to the back to tie
in a large knot.
Jo Redwood wore a short frock of
old-gold satin-brocade patterned in a
black-and-white design. Long ends fell
from the sash of mauve satin which
emphasised the Empire-line of the pale-
green satin gown worn by Nan Flower.
Pink, mauve, blue and white flowers were
clustered at the back neckline of the lilac
organza frock worn by Jennifer Bartlam
(Caramut). Elizabeth Trumble’s navy
chiffon frock had a shirred lampshade-
skirt ; a band of white satin ending m
a flat bow at the back was set just above
the high waist. Margaret Atkinson’s full-
skirted gown was of brilliant-red silk-
organza, Kaye Morrison’s of pink satin
with trails of pink roses on the full skirt.


Missing Friends
WOULD any children or grandchildren of
the late ALFRED STEPHENS and MAR-
GARET ANNIE STEPHENS (nee JONES),
who formerly lived at Randwick, New
South Wales, or any person knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with
the District Manager, PUBLIC TRUST
OFFICE, Rotorua, New Zealand?
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of JOHN ALBERT NELSON
SHARPE (Description: sft. Bin., 12-13
stone, complexion and hair dark, eyes
brown), formerly of “Linslade,” Kings-
vale, New South Wales, Orchardist, a re-
turned soldieT of both World Wars, last
heard of in Brisbane, Queensland, at -the
time of his discharge from the Army in
October, 1945, communicate with J. R.
NIALL HOGAN, Solicitor, Lynch Street,
Young, New South Wales?
McKILLOP. —Children or descendants of
MARY McKILLOP (born MACKIE), who
married DANIEL McKILLOP, Ayrshire,
Scotland, in 1843, and died Golden Point,
Ohewton, Victoria, in 1865 (after 17 years
in Victoria), or any persons able to
give information concerning them, please
communicate forthwith to the under-
signed. The persons sought are prob-
ably interested in a deceased estate. —
RITCHIE & ARNOLD, Solicitors, 6-7
O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DOUGLAS LONG late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that ETHEL PRISCILLA
LONG has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2144 of 1956 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court Sydney
by the Bth October 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor, 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
*TEO-
BASSEBE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BAKREEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without- effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
babrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3s), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
yti/Si
People willing to make strips of
land (approx. 200 yards wide)
available for roads between
large towns and new State
capitals (without prejudice), at
commercial returns, please
write:
L. H. BENSON GREENE,
Box 604, G.P.0., Sydney.
All letters confidential.
KEROSENE
jamps
burn
lighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON 1* PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MAN U FACT URE RS REPRESENTATIVE •
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT AL EXANDER RD„ ESSENDON. VICTORIA,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Mischa Elman
The Russo-American opened
what might be termed Sydney’s
Violin Week— during which he
and French violinist Christian
Ferras alternated with three
recitals each —and he lost no
time in making it clear that the
tone of great beauty he has
commanded since boyhood is
still his to conjure at will. In
episodes of headlong pace his
fingers are of wonderful supple-
ness and his bowing is that of
the classic stylist.
His lack of mannerisms may
lead some to the wrong impres-
sion that he is a “cold” player,
but in lyrcal passages his tone
is warm, rich and vital; and
when he descends to the darkest
reaches of the gamut he extracts
from it a tone that violin-lovers
dream about —as, for instance,
in Bach’s “Air on the G String.”
In two Beethoven sonatas —
the “Spring” and the “Kreutzer”
—and in concertos by Mendels-
sohn and Max Bruch, Elman
traversed the complete emotional
range of the instrument and
practically all the technical
devices to which it can be
subjected.
The “Spring” Sonata had the
vernal bloom on it, and the
strikingly original rondo- form
finale was a brilliant tour de
force. The drama of the
“Kreutzer” had none of the
morbidity which Tolstoy mis-
read into it when he borrowed
the title for his novel about a
jealous wife-murderer. This
sonata was dedicated to Rodolf
Kreutzer, a famous fiddler of
Beethoven’s day, and it seems
strange that Kreutzer refused to
play the work because he deemed
it “outrageously unintelligible.”
Certainly it has never been a
“first-hearing” favorite like the
“Spring,” but its beauties are
undeniable, and Elman’s playing
left no doubt of the clarity of
the composer’s themes and their
development.
Elman’s playing of the
Mendelssohn E Minor Con-
certo was a crystal-clear recog-
nition of what it is—the
feminine counterpart of the
most masculine concertos of
Brahms and Beethoven. It is
not a profound work, as are the
other two, but no violin-concerto
extant is more alive with sheer
lyrical beauty. The famous slow
middle-section was invested with
a tone that couldn’t be bettered.
The Bruch Concerto, grave
throughout, was given at times
a character of almost tragic
intensity—certainly in keeping
with the spirit inherent in prac-
tically all of Bruch’s music. In
this, as elsewhere, Joseph Seiger
at the keyboard was an excep-
tionally fine collaborator.
Christian Ferras
The 23-year-old Frenchman
has a style in striking contrast to
Elman. His “attacks” are spec-
tacular ; he finishes-off down-
strokes with a dramatic flourish ;
at times he indulges in a little
head-swaying and other tricks
of the old-time “show” violinist.
Yet he didn’t succeed in getting
any more emotion out of his
violin than did the older man;
indeed he often got less, especi-
ally when he went for the darker
tones. Withal he is a splendid
executant, master of a formid-
able technique and of a fine-
drawn tone of exceptional
purity.
The too-obvious criticism of a
23-year-old, playing practically
in competition with an old
master, is that his interpretations
“lack maturity.” The fact is that,
while generally it may apply to
pianists and almost certainly to
singers, it is rarely so with young
virtuoso violinists, who almost
invariably mature early. Elman,
Heifetz, Menuhin and other
prodigies of the violin were all
interpreting profound works with
the greatest musical insight in
their Teens; and the same goes
for Ferras.
He, too, played the
“Kreutzer,” and he played it
remarkably like Elman did;
nothing was finer than his
figuration-work in the fourth
theme-variation of the slow
movement, while he invested the
closing section with a good
degree of fire.
Probably Ferras’s finest
violiniistic thinking went into
Schumann’s D Minor Sonata,
which epitomises in many of its
pages something of the com-
poser’s own tragedy. This is
especially so in the long—rather
overlong—first movement. In the
contrasting scherzo Ferras
achieved a lovely, lilting gaiety,
and in the succeeding slow
section, a magnificent set of
variations, his tone Was all that
could be desired.
Debussy’s only Violin Sonata,
marked by arid stretches and
paper-thin themes, was the
poorest offering of the series.
In shorter second-half pieces
Ferras’s playing was captivating.
There were Paganini’s “La
Campanella” and “I Palpiti,” in
which he used a silkily-smooth
glissando to fine effect; Saint-
Saens’s “Introduction and Rondo
Capriccioso” (also played by
Elman, and with exactly the same
effect of charming whimsy);
Beethoven’s “Romance in F,” its
legato songlike character beauti-
fully drawn; and the same
composer’s “Havanaise,” which
evoked the Spanish scene almost
as well as the genuine article,
Sarasate’s “Andaluzia,” in which
superb double-stopping accentu-
ated the brilliant Iberian colors.
* * *
Victoria de los Angeles
The voice of Victoria de los
Angeles, being lifted at-the Mel-
bourne Town Hall, has more
individual quality than those of
scores of others heard in Mel-
bourne over a long stretch of
time, and it is used with great
art. If there was more applause
for Miss de los Angeles’ Spanish
ditties than for her Schubert,
Brahms and Handel, that was
more a tribute to her ancestry
than because of any difference in
her singing, which, whatever she
sings, seems absolutely without
blemish.
Her singing of “Oh, Had I
Jubal’s Lyre,” from Handel’s
“Joshua,” at her second concert
aroused her hearers to another
frenzy of appreciation the
trills were birdlike. She brought
the same exquisite feeling to
Respighi’s “E Se Un Giorno
Tornasse,” and “A Woman’s
Lament,” by Guridi, was
delightful.
Accompanist Paul Berl had
something to live up to. He
succeeded piano and voice
were in just about perfect agree-
ment
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Around the Loop”
William Orr’s latest intimate
revue at Sydney’s Phillip-street
Theatre is a very funny one
indeed, thanks partly to several
sharply amusing numbers, and
largely to the enthusiastic and
infectious comedy of Gordon
Chater.
Mr. Chafer’s vigorous style,
his clipped brisk accents and
his excellent timing provide the
highspots of the evening’s
humor—as the judge bemoaning
the fact that all his cases are
“heard but not obscene” ; as the
woman gossip-writer; as the
young man progressively kicked
out of cubs, scouts, choir, school
and Army for not being as
“pure as the rustling wind”; as
the bloke from the bush, rather
more startled than the Man
from Ironbark by what men’s
fashions have done to his erst-
while school companions; and
as one of Ronald Searle’s Belles
of St. Trinians —in a get-up as
rich and horrible as George
Wallace’s tram-conductress.
The evening’s humor skips
comfortably between these peaks
with such items as “Not So
Dummy” (Wendy Blacklock and
Pat Pearson as a couple of
dummies in Farmers’ window
discussing customers, winaow-
dreSsers and the passing scene);
“Woman With the Golden Car”
(Pat Pearson as Lady Docker
down to her last few furs and
cars); “In the D’Oyle Carte,”
with Max Oldaker, June Salter
and Wendy Blacklock treating
Messrs. Gilsullivan as liberally
as those two treated most sub-
jects ; and “Color Question,”
with Barry Humphries making
much of maroon.
There are several lively
songandance numbers in between
items of the night’s humor, Max
Oldaker and June Salter being
the main contributors, with
Shirley Regan, whom one used
to watch at Sydney Tiv. and
wish for a telescope, giving a
very plausible explanation of
why she’d “Rather Dance Than
Eat.” Miss Salter excels herself
in “International Miss” the
best-presented item of the even-
ing—and in “Man in the Rain-
coat” ; and Mr. Oldaker
distinguishes himself in several
numbers, and nowhere better
than in the Maypole-dance,
where he suggests what he would
like to do with the maypole.
* ❖ ❖
Uni. Festival
The last week of Sydney Uni-
versity’s Drama and Music
Festival began with a Chinese
evening at the Union Hall.
Miss Joan Chia tackled
Chopin and Schumann on
an ancient upright, and there
were “The Artist,” an amusing
one-acter; a colorful Lipn
Dance, where the enormous
glittering lion’s-head seemed to
devour the dancer within ; Ellen
Kan warbling Chinese folksongs ;
and Chinese pugilism, which
turned out to be ritualised hand-
waving.
On the next night Sydney
University Dramatic Society
presented Farquhar’s “Beaux’
Stratagem.” There was plenty of
laughter, some of it not in the
script as when, a string-
suspended cardboard portrait
turned back-to-front during pro-
ceedings. In a generally bright
production, Terence Clarke,
Neil Smith and Clodagh Harvey
were outstanding.
A sparse gathering braved the
wet Wednesday and icy Great
Hall to hear violinist Muriel
Buchanan do three Brahms
sonatas, with Leon Stemler at the
grand. First on the programme
was the G Major Sonata, Op.
78 (1878)—here Mr. Stemler
tended to drown the soloist’s
lower notes followed by
“Interval for People, Violin and
Piano (1956).” The two other
sonatas lacked polish and fire,
although there was some decisive
playing in the presto agitato of
the D Minor.
On to the Union Hall for two
Curt Goetz plays, “Minim
Magdalena” and “Der Hund in
Hirn,” both short and racy. In
the former one noted R. Rushall
and Nola Williams and in the
other Alexander Boettcher, who
successfully coped with ineffi-
cient lighting and curtain-
handling.
The week finished with two
first-performance operas in the
Wallace Theatre: Gustav
Holst’s “Savitri,” wherein
William Diamond, as Death,
sang to some effect; and
“Prima Donna,” by Arthur
Benjamin. Professor Peart
conducted the Pro Musica Opera
Orchestra through both works,
but his vigorous efforts didn’t
exclude an overambitious flautist
and the leader’s persistent out-
of-tune playing.
A. W.
Artbursts
There is a nostalgic touch
about one picture in Aileen
Dent’s current show at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum. It is an
attractive portrait of an attrac-
live girl dressed in Elizabethan
costume, who turns out to be
Rose Georgiana McCrae. The
artist has caught the quick,
intelligent expression on the
girl’s face, and is not so con-
cerned with detail as in her
portraits of more solemn sub-
jects like Sir Charles Lowe and
the Hon. W. W. Leggatt. Her
landscapes are better than her
portraits and her still-life—-in
which she sometimes fails to
catch the differences in texture
between daffodils and daisies
and serge and linen. The easiest
to look at among the landscapes
are those in which Nature has
done half the work by obliterat-
ing detail, as in “Tranquil Even-
ing, Portland,” “Evening To-
wards Lome” and “Grey Morn-
ing.” “The Winding River”
looks as if it had been felt as
well as studied.
Talkies
“Touch and Go” (Sydney
Embassy): A diverting English
comedy about a frustrated
furniture-designer who suddenly
decides to toss-in his job and
migrate with his family to Aus-
tralia, only to discover that a
recalcitrant family-cat and a
romantically - minded teenage
daughter can so easily throw a
spanner in the moving works.
Jack Hawkins and Margaret
Johnson, as the parents, and
Roland Culver, as the neighbor
who wants to buy the family
“bomb,” handle the laughs,
which come easily.
“The Big Knife” (Sydney
Paris): The nearest to violence
in this boring business about a
pampered Hollywood star is
when he petulantly hurls a
cigarette into a cuspidor. With
Jack Palance and Ida Lupino.


Brigalow
By
R.S.
PORTEOUS
STORY TO NOW
Bob Anders, as recently -
appointed overseer of Yakaparni
cattle-station, far out in Central
Queensland, is given a free hand
by owner Carson, who, though
otherwise wrapped-up in the
property, has neglected it because
he personally hates cattle-work.
Mrs. Carson, fond of her
explosive husband, quietly
manages him. Bob puts on as
new cattlemen Wonga Watkins,
Mick Grey, Steve Hartley and
Duffy Spooner, along with 13-
year-old Tommy as horseboy and
an odd pair of young cattledogs,
Sneezer and Boozer. Julia
Carson, on a vacation from city
schooling, strikes Bob as rather
affected, but before her holiday
ends proves herself a game, first-
class horsewoman. On weekend
breaks Bob divides his time
between reunions with war-time
mates, the Stewart brothers, at
Curly Ryan’s Dilargo township
pub, and becoming involved with
Carla Greer, daughter of the
township’s popular doctor. A
bad drought has made Yaka-
parni very vulnerable to the now-
approaching bushfire.
CHAPTER XX ( continued)
cant do anything
\Y / about it,” Carson said
VV when I suggested
taking the boys out
in the tilly. “Just waste
of time trying to fight
a fire in those rocky gorges.
Let it burn. The damned grass
is no bloody good, anyhow. The
cattle can’t eat the rotten stuff,
and a good fire’ll clean the
blasted ticks up.” He sighed
and clicked his teeth irritably.
“Besides, we might get that storm
tonight.”
We might get that storm
tonight! How often had we
said that, only to see the storm
fade slowly away without shed-
ding one single drop of moisture!
As this one did.
The following day we rode out
to inspect the fire. It was well
down the range then, burning its
way over ridges and along dry
creek-beds against a light breeze.
It crept quietly along through the
short grass in the hollows,
crackled noisily through the long,
parched spear-grass on the
ridges, and occasionally burst
into a great drumming roar as
the flames ignited the dry,
resinous patches of wattle.
Ahead of it were the wheeling,
shrilling fire-hawks and the flap-
ping, cawing crows, waiting to
pounce on the lizards and all
manner of tiny animal-life fleeing
before the flames. Behind it was
black desolation, with smoulder-
ing logs and trees sending their
grey smoke up to form a
blanketing cloud through which
the sun glowed like an orange-
colored moon.
In that intense summer heat
there was nothing we could do,
nothing but ride along the front
of the fire, estimating its
progress and keeping a careful
watch lest a sudden change of
wind bring it roaring down on
us. After sunset, when the fire
would lose much of its intensity,
we could come out and try
conclusions with it.
That night Carson, the stock-
men and I drove out to Buckley’s
Yards. The pear-poisoners had
all either thrown-in their jobs or
been put off because of lack of
water. We left the tilly on the
bare ground in the centre of the
big yard and set off on foot,
carrying waterbags and the food
Mrs. Carson had prepared for
us.
A two-mile walk brought us
to the edge of the fire, and in
spite of the tragedy of it and the
work it would entail we were all
struck by the beauty of it. In
daylight we had seen only black
desolation, but this was a lavishly
illuminated fairyland with
countless burning trees cascading
shower after brilliant shower of
glittering sparks, some pouring
down like burning waterfalls,
others streaming out and scatter-
ing as a fitful gust of wind fanned
through the tree-tops.
Burning logs glowed red
against the dark ground, and
occasionally an old hollow tree
burst into a roaring, flaming
torch that lit the surrounding
country with dazzling brilliance.
High up in the ranges burning
trees glowed and twinkled like
city lights behind this lavish
carnival of fireworks. And
everywhere in the wake of the
fire the still night air was filled
with the swish and thud of falling
branches, drowned at times by
the heavy boom as a burning
giant crashed like an incendiary-
bomb to the ground.
“We’ll split-up here,” Carson
said, forcing us back to the
realisation that all this meant
work for us. “I’ll take a couple
of men and work to the left, you
take the others to the right. We’ll
meet here, in the creek-junction,
at daylight.”
I detailed Mick and Steve to
go with him, and he added,
“Keep your eye on that blasted
kid. I still think you should have
left him at home. It’s easy
enough for a good man to get
bushed fighting a fire at night.”
“I’ll watch him,” I answered,
well aware of the soundness of
the warning. I would have left
Tommy at home had he not
pleaded to be allowed to come.
“You can earn your tucker
now by carrying the waterbag,”
I told the kid as we started off.
“Never mind the fire ; we’ll look
after it. Just keep in sight of us
and sit down and have a spell
every time you get a chance. We
don’t want to finish-up the night
carrying you home.”
YXfHERE the fire crept quietly
’ * through short grass we beat
it out with branches broken from
the nearest bushes; where it
raged fiercely through long grass
we gave it a wide berth and con-
tained it by burning breaks ahead
of it.
To prevent it from springing
up again behind us, every
smouldering log on the face of
the fire had to have a break
burned around it, every flaming
or glowing stick had to be tossed
well inside the burned-out area,
and every spark had to be beaten
out or swept back.
Down into dry creekbeds and
up on to ridges we toiled, burn-
ing, beating, sweeping and tossing
in. The face of the fire, creeping
ahead in long tongues, led us
north, south, east and west, so
that in spite of our knowledge of
the country we were often
hopelessly slewed.
Our aim was to run the fire
back to the range, and though
there were many times when we
were working hopefully towards
it, the next half-hour would find
us turned-about to follow a mile-
long tongue directly away from
it.
At midnight we ate our sand-
wiches and jvashed them down
with swigs from the waterbag.
Tommy’s burden was getting
lighter every hour. At two-thirty
we halted at the head of a rocky
gorge and drank the last of our
water, satisfied that the fire in
that area had burned itself out.
As far as knowing our actual
whereabouts we were completely
bushed, had been for the last
hour. In daylight we would
have recognised every feature of
the country, but after walking up
gullies and down gullies all
vaguely alike in the firelight we
could only say we were well up
in the ranges, somewhere on the
Yakaparni boundary.
The only thing to do was to
return along the edge of the
burnt country until we came to
a place we recognised. Then we
could strike out in a short-cut.
“Pull up,” Wonga said nearly
an hour later. “I know where we
are now. This is the ’ead of
Brumby Creek. There’s a dead
bull under a bit of a bluff just
around the next bend.”
We followed the creek-bed
until we came to the dead bull
before I was convinced.
“You’re right, Wonga,” I said
then. “If we cut across the
ridges it’s only about three-mile
to the junction where we meet
the others.”
“That’s right,” he agreed.
“And the way we come follerin’
the fire it muster been the best
part of twenty.”
The others were already at the
meeting-place when we arrived.
They were sprawled out, fast
asleep, and we lost no time in
following their example. We
were tired-out and footsore. We
still had the two-mile walk to
Buckley’s Yards ahead of us,
but at least we could sleep for
the, hour or so until daylight
came.
Daylight! A hot, smoke-laden
daylight, with the sun coming up
as a dim red ball, the daily
round 61 the watering-places, old
cows waiting to be rescued or put
for ever out of their misery, and
the few determined stayers to be
moved from Pink Lily Lagoon.
CHAPTER XXI
'T'HE fire broke out again next
day. In that intense heat it
was inevitable, however safe we
had made ttie face of it. The
heat bred whirlwinds, and the
whirlwinds carried strips of
flaming bark for hundreds of
yards.
Determined to conquer it, we
went out again after sunset. On
three successive nights we beat it
out, only to see it flare up again
next day. On the fourth day it
lay dormant, but we were too
worn out to feel optimistic about
it.
We hadn’t beaten it; we never
'would beat it. It was too vast,
too insatiable to be conquered
by a handful of worn-out men.
We had given it a few tem-
porary setbacks simply because
the breeze had remained light and
constantly in our favor. If that
wind changed and got behind it,
the fire would sweep across the
entire run. Realising this, we
had burned breaks around the
homestead and all the yards.
On the fourth night Julie was
due home, and because Carson
was completely exhausted I
offered to go in to meet her.
“I don’t think you’re in a fit
state to be driving, either, Bob,”
Mrs. Carson said. “You both
need at least twenty-four hours’
rest. Ido wish I’d learned to
drive a car.”
“What about coming in with
me?” I suggested.
She patted my arm and said,
“No thanks, Bob. I’ll stay here
and see that no one disturbs
Joseph. You get away early and
have a few nice cold beers before
the train comes. And forget
about the fire. If it breaks out
again tonight it can just burn.”
I got to Dilargo in time to have
two beers with Curly before he
closed-up. It would have been
easy to persuade him to stay in
the bar and have a few more, but
I felt too tired. Sleep was what
I needed, and the beer was
making me more sleepy.
“The train’s runnin’ nearly an
hour late,” Curly informed me.
“Why don’t y’ drive up to the
station and have a bit of a camp
in the car till she gets in? Freshen
y’ up a bit for the drive ’ome.”
I parked the car outside the
station, thought of asking the
night-officer to. give me a call
when the train was due, and
decided it was not worth the
effort. Even though I had been
without sleep for three nights
the noisy arrival of the train
would wake me. It always
whistled loudly as it approached
the station.
T WAS awakened by someone
shaking me and pummelling
me on the shoulder. The batter-
ing seemed to go on and on, and
when I finally dragged myself
awake I realised that my assailant
was Julie.
Stupidly I said, “Where’s the
train?”
“It’s gone,” she snapped. “Ten
minutes ago. I had to carry my
luggage out and I’ve been trying
to wake youup for five minutes.”
“Sorry about that,” I
mumbled, still only half-awake.
“I must have dozed off.”
“Dozed! ” she exclaimed
scornfully.
I stacked her luggage in, and
started the engine. We drove in
silence for about three miles, and,
though I kept shaking my head
and blinking furiously, my eyes
refused to stay open. Finally I
let the car wander off the road,
and almost ringbarked a big
blood wood.
“It’s no good,” I complained,
slamming on the brakes. “I can’t
stay awake.”
“You’d better let me drive,”
Julie said.
She got out and came around
to the driver’s side.
“Good idea,” I told her, and
moved over.
“I don’t know why Daddy lets
you drive the car,” she said
indignantly. “I bet he doesn’t
know you get like this.”
As the car jerked forward it
dawned on me that she thought
I was full. For a moment I
thought of declaring my
innocence, but as the gears
crashed noisily under Julie’s
savage and inexpert changing I
merely said, “That’s the stuff.
Tear ’em out by the roots and
buy a new lot.”
That ended our conversation,
for I slept soundly until Mrs.
Carson roused me, told me the
luggage was inside, and suggested
that I’d get a better rest in bed.
Julie grasped me impulsively
by the arm as I got out of the
car.
“Oh, Bob!” she said; and in
spite of the darkness I knew she
was crying. “I’m sorry. I didn’t
know anything about the fire till
Mummy told me. When I
was trying to wake you I
thought”
“That’s all right, Julia,” I told
her, patting her shoulder. “If I
hadn’t been too tired to drink
any more I probably would have
been full.”
AT eight-o’clock next morning
I staggered out on to the
veranda and looked across the
garden at a world of smoke.
Smoke hid the range, almost
obscured the sun and dimmed
the outlines of the trees at the
end of the garden.
I suppose everything smelled
of it, but I had long since lost
my power to smell smoke. I was
full of it, my lungs and nostrils
were saturated with it.
My first impression was that
the fire was already in the horse-
paddock, and then I realised that
the wind had changed. It was
behind the fire now, driving it on
instead of checking its progress.
I dressed quickly and went
looking for Carson.
“He’s gone back to sleep,”
Mrs. Carson told me. “He woke
up and had some breakfast about
an hour ago. I told him the fire
had broken out again and he
said, ‘Let it burn.’ ”
“That’s all we can do at
present,” I said. “The wind’s
behind it now. I don’t suppose
you’ve any idea when it started-
up again?”
“Yes. Just after you got home
last night. I saw the glow in the
sky. The wind changed soon
after.” She looked distressed,
and added, “Bob, you’re not
thinking of going out again
today, are you? Surely there’s
nothing you can do, and you
really do need a proper rest.”
“There’s all the water to be
looked at,” I told her. “And I
must find out where the fire is.
If you’ll get some breakfast I’ll
rouse the boys out.”
Julie came into the dining-
room while I was having break-
fast. She was wearing an old
khaki shirt and khaki jodhpurs.
The only other thing 1 noticed
GREENHOOD ORCHID
It looked, l might have said,
as if it were crucified —
two sepals strained above,
two angles meeting the head, *
sunken as if denied.
Instead of which, I thought
that it was pale as wind
and green as pebbled water.
Superb, it had flown through
light
and now was frozen there,
its head bowed in sorrow,
longing to move once more.
It was not this or that.
Abstract of pain and grief,
curve and incurve, it grew
simply out of a leaf;
both more and less than I
knew —
not easy to estimate.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


mm
... I’m the
smartest of them all!
That’s what any boy will say when he’s wearing a
Stamina Double Breasted Suit because Stamina
boys’ suits are designed, cut, made and finished by
master-craftsmen. That means the Stamina suit you
buy for your boy will fit him perfectly, fit him comfort-
ably, and keep on fitting him for years... for every
Stamina garment has a generously wide “Grow-tuck”
hem which can be let down as he grows.
So ... if you want the best for your boy
the neatest, smartest Double Breasted Suit
obtainable, ask for Stamina.
CLOTHES
ASK FOR
Stamina
15
2
►
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
8W740
about her was that she was look-
ing particularly subdued.
“I’ve got the horses in for you,
Bob,” she said. “Do you think 1
could come with you today?”
“No, you can't.” I shook my
head, irritably. “I’m not riding.
The boys are going out to Pink
Lily Lagoon and Number-one
bore • Fm going in the tilly to
Number-two and the Brigalow
Yards, and believe me it’s not
going to be a pleasure-trip. The
outside country is no place for a
girl at the moment.”
I looked across at her mother
and asked, “Don’t you agree,
Mrs. Carson?”
“It’s entirely up to you, Bob.”
She smiled in her quietly charm-
ing way. “Personally, I don’t
think it will do her any harm to
see the country under drought,
but if you feel she’ll be in the
way she’ll have to stay here with
me.
“I’ve seen droughts before,”
Julie put in.
“You haven’t seen one like
this.” I stood up. “But if you
want to see and smell death and
desolation you might as well
come.” I turned to her mother.
“We’d better take lunch with us,.
Mrs. Carson. I’ll put a tin of
water in the tilly. She can’t
drink the foul muck we’ve been
drinking lately.”
On the drive out I answered.
Julie’s questions about the
drought. There was nothing
pleasant to talk about, nothing
pleasant to see in all that arid,
smoke-laden country.
Number-two was situated on
a bare ringbarked ridge, com-
pletely devoid of shade. The
windmill, on its sixty-foot iron-
framework tower, was turning
slowly in the light breeze, too
slowly to raise the water-level in
the huge galvanised-iron tank at
its base.
A pipe led from the tank to
the trough thirty yards away, and
from every point of the compass
dusty cattle-pads wound in and
out to converge on the trough.
In a near-by hollow, seventy
or eighty gaunt, dispirited cattle
stood or lay in the scant shade
of a clump of ironbarks, a few
more wandered listlessly around
the trough, and away to one side
lay the rotting carcasses of the
dead we had dragged away. The
living and the dead. Well, there
wasn’t a great deal of difference
between them.
“Look,” Julie exclaimed as we
drove up, “there’s one in the
trough.”
And there, despite the heavy
hardwood cap designed to
prevent cattle from stepping over
or into the trough, sat an
emaciated old cow. On the cap
only a few feet from her head
four crows sat waiting patiently
for her struggles to end. That
she had struggled was evident
from the amount of water that
had slopped over the side of the
trough, precious water dragged
pint by pint from one-hundred-
and-fifty feet below the parched
ground.
“Stay in the tilly,” I told
Julie. “I’ll get her out.”
The four crows flapped noisily
away, their protests drowned by
the doleful cawings of others
rising from the near-by dead.
Two eaglehawks, gorged to
repletion, hopped and beat the
air furiously, raising swirls of
dust before becoming airborne.
And, of course, there were the
goannas, loathsome, f o u 1-
smelling and defiantly indolent.
The cow struggled violently as
I approached her. She dragged
herself half up, only to slump
down again as her rump came in
contact with the heavy cap. She
bellowed, blubbered and shook
her head in rage as I tried to free
her. Her efforts to horn me
deluged me with water, and her
frantic scramblings defeated my
every attempt to haul her out.
Julie came to my aid, and I
said savagely, “You keep out of
this. The old bitch means busi-
ness. She’ll charge as soon as
she gets on her feet, and she’s
strong enough to get away with
it.”
“Oh, don’t be silly, Bob! ” she
retorted. “You can’t possibly get
her out by yourself, and I can
easily dodge her over the
trough.”
Her reasoning being too
logical for argument we both
grasped the cow’s tail and heaved
until we got her hips over the
rail protecting the side of the
trough.
“You hang on now,” I panted.
“I’ll get her head out before she
drowns.”
The old girl’s head was half-
submerged, and she was blowing
streams of bubbles. I grasped
her firmly by the horns and
heaved her out. With a thud that
knocked the remaining wind out
of her she hit the wet ground,
splashing us both freely with
mud.
“Over the trough, Julie!” I
shouted. “I’ll look after her
now.”
She scrambled nimbly over
and said, “Gee, that water
stinks!”
It did stink. The trough
should have been cleaned weeks
ago, but there were so many
cattle watering at it we had been
loath to waste so much water.
And now it had to be done. The
fool of a cow had stirred up the
slime and mud from the bottom
and fouled the water with her
dung.
To further aggravate matters,
she scrambled to her feet and
charged me with unexpected
energy and fury. When I dodged
her around the end of the trough
she tottered after me, shaking
her head with rage. When I
tried to pull out the drain-plug
she charged again, and crashed
to her knees, and when I went to
the other end of the trough to
shut off the water inflow she
scrambled up and followed me.
“That’s feminine gratitude for
you,” I called to Julie, who had
wisely retreated to the tilly.
After a few more futile
attempts I gave up and joined her.
“It’s no good,” I said. “We’ll
drive up to the tank and wait for
her to cool-down. She’ll wander
off to her mates after a while.
But if I stay there she’ll keep on
charging till she drops. And then
she’ll die up against the trough
just to spite us.”
We found the water in the
tank dangerously low, so we dis-
connected the mill and started-
up the engine. Right from the
start Julie made it clear that she
was going to do her share of the
work, however unpleasant it
might be. And when it N came to
pigheaded obstinacy she could
give old Carson points.
“That old wretch is still
there,” she pointed out for the
third time. “I don’t think she’ll
ever go away.”
“Give her time,” I advised.
“She’ll get sick of it before we
do.” I looked at the old cow,
still belligerently guarding the
trough. “Perhaps if we go away
she’ll follow our example. We’ll
drive on down to the Brigalow
Yards, have lunch and then come
back. There’s no shade here,
and the stink is enough to put
anyone off his tucker.”
TTHE water in the lagoon at the
Brigalow Yards was deep
and clear, and the bluegums
along its banks gave a welcome
illusion of coolness.
The cattle at this end of the
run were still fairly strong. There
had been remarkably few deaths,
and that day there was only one
cow bogged. She was hopelessly
down in the mud around a bend
at the top end of the lagoon,
almost the only boggy patch in
its entire length.
I drove past her, pulled-up at
the hut and told Julie to jump
out.
“Gosh!” she sighed. “That
water looks lovely.”
I looked her over and
laughed. Her shirt and trousers
were spattered with dried mud,
streaks of it clung to her freckled
face, and right across her short,
upturned nose was a smear of
black windmill grease. With her
felt-hat hiding most of her hair
she looked like a small boy badly
in need of a bath.
“That’s more than you do,” I
said without thinking. A flush
mounted beneath the mud and
freckles, and I added hastily,
“You’re covered in mud. Why
don’t you stay here and have a
swim while I take the tilly back
and pull the cow out? I don’t
want any help. When I get back
you can boil the billy while 1 hop
in for a bit of freshen-up.”
- Without giving her time to
argue I drove off. I backed the
tilly to within a few yards of the
bogged cow, tossed a rope over
her horns, secured it to the back-
axle and dragged her clear.
There was no need to treat her
gently. I put her out of her
misery and dragged her- well
away from the water.
When I got back to the hut
Julie was drying her hair with a
minute handkerchief. Her shirt
and trousers were clean, but still
damp.
“Good Heavens! ” I exclaimed.
“Did you go in clothes and all?”
“No, 1 didn’t,” she retorted.
“But I couldn’t see the sense in
getting clean and then putting on
filthy clothes, so I took them in
with me and washed them. 1
hung them over a branch to dry
until I heard you coming back.”
“A good idea,” I told her,
handing her a box of matches.
“You boil-up now while I get
cleaned.”
The swim and some rough
laundering removed the smell
and most of the dirt. It also gave
me an appetite. I left my shirt
hanging up to dry while we had
lunch. We sat on the water’s
edge in the shade of a gnarled
old bluegum, and for half-an-
hour we were able to shut our-
selves off from the drought.
The swim had freshened and
cooled us, we could gaze into the
clear water and even look across
to the green rushes on the far
bank. Beyond the rushes we did
not look. When lunch was over
we would return to the land of
dried grass, dusty cattle-pads,
almost leafless trees and death.
Dead and dying cattle in a dead
country. For this short half-
hour we could, talking of other
things, forget what lay out there.
“Time to go,” I announced,
emptying the tea-leaves from the
billy. “Back to the Sahara.”
“Doesn’t it seem awful?”
Julie sighed. “I wonder if that
vile-tempered old wretch has left
the trough yet.”
Our vile-tempered friend was
nowhere in sight when we got
back to the bore, so I stopped
the tilly alongside the trough.
The job of cleaning that trough
was a long, slow and dirty one.
When I got the drain-plug out
we broke branches from
sandalwood-bushes and kept the
water constantly stirred-up as it
drained slowly out. When no
more would flow we had to scoop
the last of the slimy muck out
with the billy and an old rusty
tin.
“What would the headmistress
of your swanky school think if
she saw you now?” I asked my
offsider once.
“Why should I care?” she
retorted, with what seemed quite
unnecessary heat. “Anyhow, I’ve
left school now.”
“A grown-up young lady, eh?”
“Oh, shut up!” She slammed
the billy down, splashing us both
with mud. “I’m going to turn
the water on. I’m sure we could
sweep the rest of this foul muck
out quicker.”
Aided by the running water,
we swept the trough clean and
replaced the plug, and since
Julie was for some reason
{Continued on next page )


CHATEAU TANUNDA
(Clipper Ships No, 4)
§ 1 S 5
-
A Veteran Aristocrat
Australia’s boom of the Golden Fifties echoed
afar at sea as well as on the land. Many of the
finest Clipper ships the world has seen were
chartered to run emigrants to the newly-dis-
covered goldfields and to return with cargoes of
bullion and wool. Some of these vessels were
specially built for the trade ; others were crack
liners which had proved themselves in distant
waters. One of the greatest of the latter was
the “Flying Cloud.”
This gallant, elegant ship was American-built, de-
signed by the famed Donald McKay of Boston who
justly reckoned her one of his masterpieces. A big
vessel for her time, registered at 1,783 tons, she was
fine and pretty of line and her many embellishments
» culminated in an intricately-carved figurehead: an
angel blowing a trumpet.
The date of her launching almost coincided with the
discovery of gold in Australia, but she made her debut
with the American Swallow Tail Line in the New
York-San Francisco run. Her record-making times
were soon the talk of all seamen, and she was trans-
ferred to the China trade, thus becoming one of the
proudest of the celebrated Tea Clippers.
Because of her prestige in that trade the “Flying
Cloud" did not appear under Australian skies until
she was a 10-year-old veteran, her remaining days
numbered. Yet her England-Australia voyaging—
which began in February, 1861, after she had been
bought by the famous Black Ball Line of Liverpool—
was profitable and often spectacular.
Her principal role was that of an emigrant ship to
Queensland and for a decade she was the aristocrat of
that busy run. By that time her hull was strained
and water-soaked, yet in 1870, under the command of
Captain Owen, and carrying 385 passengers, she
sailed from Liverpool to Hervey’s Bay in 87 days.
In the early 70’s the fine old vessel was sold into the
North Atlantic timber trade, to which so many of the
famous veterans retired. She helped make Australia's
prosperity and her name belongs to our history.
Remember—always keep a bottle in the house
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED. EST. 1838
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
lain
offended or fed-up with the job
we worked in silence.
I LOOKED at my watch as we
got into the tilly. The time
was ten-minutes-to-five, nearly
an hour-and-a-half before sunset,
yet, it .was almost dark. The
smoke that had become part of
our existence had thickened con-
siderably during the last hour.
“Your watch must have
stopped,” Julie said. She
sounded nervous.
I started the engine and said,
“No, it’s still going. The smoke
has got so damned thick it’s
blocking out the sun. I think
the fire has swung this way.
The whole bloody run’s going
up in smoke by the look of
things.”
“Bob,” she looked up at me,
her blue eyes blinking rapidly.
“I’m frightened. It’s so —so big.
Do you think we’ll get back to
the house?”
I slipped my arm around her
shoulder and shook her gently.
“Of course we will, you silly
child,” I laughed.
She had worked like a man
today, and, after all, she was
only a kid, a small slip of a girl
straight from a sheltered school
life. Small wonder the thought
of being surrounded by a bush-
fire terrified her. It made me
feel a bit uncomfortable.
“Even if the fire has crossed
the road it’ll only hold us up for
a little while. You’ll be home in
time for a shower before supper.
Now hang on, because I’m going
to boot the old tilly along.”
I had no time to see how she
reacted. In that dim light, with
the road winding in and out
through the timber, my whole
attention was concentrated on
driving. In spite of my com-
forting words I was anxious to
get ahead of the fire. If it
crossed the road ahead of us its
wreckage of fallen trees and
branches might delay us for
hours.
We were about halfway
between the bore and the weaner-
paddock gate when we saw the
flames, vivid red and orange
against the near-black pall of
smoke. Fanned by the breeze
the fire was sweeping across a
spear-grass ridge, the crackling
roar of its progress plainly
audible above the noise of the
old Ford engine.
Long, angry tongues of flame
leaped greedly ahead, licking at
slender saplings that, first leaned
away and then writhed in seem-
ing agony before surrendering—
limp, blackened and lifeless,
stripped of their last remaining
leaves.
Lizards scuttled across the
road, and the air was filled with
fleeing grasshoppers and all
manner of insects.
Air! There was no air. The
fire was sucking, it up as it
advanced, leaving in its place an
oven-hot void that seared into
the lungs without satisfying
them.
“Will we beat it?” Julie yelled
above the din.
“Easily,” I assured her.
Not so easily, I thought. If
it keeps this pace up we’ll have
nothing up our sleeves.
The old tilly was fairly leaping
along, but so was the fire. If
the next ridge was burning it
might be touch-and-go, and it
was too late now to turn back.
“It’s crossed the road behind
us,” Julie called.
I wasn’t interested in anything
behind me, so I said nothing.
My worries lay ahead.
“I feel as if I’m suffocating,”
she informed me a moment or
two later.
“Try keeping your mouth
shut,” I said irritably. At this
pace I had no time for
conversation.
Ten-minutes later, with the fire
well behind us and the weaner-
paddock gate looming up
through the smoke, I slowed the
tilly down and said thankfully,
“Well, young Julia, we made it.”
Her nose went up, and she
lifted one small shoulder in
obvious distaste. “I think you’re
the rudest and most objection-
able man I’ve ever met,” she said
in her most superior accent.
CHAPTER XXII
TIY sundown the following day
we had no more bushfire
problems. There was nothing
left for it to burn. The whole
run was a black, charred wilder-
ness, with the white smoke drift-
ing up from smouldering logs
the only relieving note against
the overall blackness.
Unlike sheep, that huddle in
a corner until a fire overwhelms
them, the cattle had survived,
though how long they would
survive without feed worried me
badly.
Nor was that my only
problem. The fences had to be
cleared of wreckage and
repaired ; burned-out posts had
to be replaced ; and the daily
round of waterholes and
pumping-plants had to go on.
For some of the work, horses
were essential, yet it was impos-
sile to keep on working horses
when there was nothing for them
to eat.
I consulted Carson about
that. I suggested having horse-
feed railed up, but he only said,
“Get some if you think it’ll do
any good.”
Since the night Julie came
home we had all been worried
about him. He must have over-
strained himself during those
three nights of fire-fighting,
because once the fire got out of
control he seemed to lose all
interest in it and everything con-
nected with the running of the
place.
He spent most of the day in*
his veranda chair, staring out
over the garden. He didn’t
curse, he didn’t fly into rages,
and he didn’t even complain
about his gastric-ulcer.
He just sat there, with his
right hand thrust inside his
shirt, staring listlessly.
“I’ve never known him refuse
food before,” Mrs. Carson said
to me. “I feel we should get
him to the doctor, but I very
much doubt if he’ll go.”
“See if you can persuade him,”
I suggested. “If he’ll agree to
see Dr. Greer I’ll drive him in
Straight away.”
Carson gave in with surpris-
ingly little fuss; in fact, he
seemed relieved at the suggestion.
“It’s me heart,” he confessed
weakly. “It’s just sort of given
out on me. Sometimes it knocks
and thumps like an engine with
the big-end bearing burned out,
and sometimes it stops alto-
gether.” He heaved a deep sigh.
7 ‘l’m worried about you, Pqg.
You and Julie. If the old ticker
gives out altogether I’ll be leav-
ing you in a nice mess. No
water, no grass, cattle all dying
and the overdraft getting close to
its limit.”
“Don’t worry, dear,” his wife
soothed. “Just go off with Bob
and see what Dr. Greer says. If
he thinks you should see a
specialist we’ll leave tomorrow,
drought or no drought.”
During the drive in to Dilargo
Carson told me that if his time
had come he would die easier
with the knowledge that I was
there to take his place on Yaka-
parnj. I felt flattered, but
worried. It was so unlike Carson
to pay compliments.
In Dilargo I talked to Carla
and Mrs. Greer while the doctor
examined his patient. The
examination seemed to take a
long time, and when the surgery
door finally opened Mrs. Greer
called, “Come along, you two.
You’re just in time for a cupper.”
You were always just in time
for a cupper at Greers’, no matter
what time of the day or night
you arrived.
As sodn as possible I got the
doctor aside and asked, “What’s
the verdict, Doc.? Is it serious?”
“No.” He shook his head
slowly. “There’s nothing wrong
with him really. Physically he’s
in remarkably good condition.
Heart’s perfectly normal. He
probably got overtired fighting
the fire, and felt it was the last
straw in a worrying year. I’d
prescribe a holiday for him, but
knowing Carson I feel I’d be
wasting good advice. Half the
men in the district haye been
in to see me lately. Their wives
think they need medicine and
tonic. Medicine and tonic!
What they need, what we all
need, is five or six inches of
rain.”
Carson was not pleased with
the verdict. On the way home
he expressed the opinion that
Greer was slipping.
“Not the man he used to be,”
he declared. “Told me there was
nothing wrong with me heart
that a shower of rain wouldn’t
fix! Never heard such blasted
rot! When a doctor starts talk-
ing like that it’s time he retired
from the medical profession.
Couldn’t find anything wrong
with me heart! I’m not a doctor,
but I can find a bloody lot of
things wrong with it.”
He wasn’t back in his old rip-
roaring form, but he was show-
ing signs of working up to it.
DURING the next three days
he never left the house,
and although I badly needed his
help I refrained from asking him
to come out.
Julie, too, seemed to have lost
interest in the outside work. She
stayed at home and either helped
her mother or sat on the veranda
reading.
On the third day, Friday, I
got all the urgent work finished
by lunch-time and sent the boys
off for the weekend. They
needed a break badly ; Wonga’s
skin must have been really
cracking.
Saturday was one of the hottest
days I had known. I drove out
to Number-one bore in the
morning, and returned at lunch-
time feeling half-baked and
wholly envious of the boys in
Curly Ryan’s bar. After lunch
I slept for an hour, woke-up
saturated with sweat, and decided
to drive out to Number-two.
Driving in that heat was hellish,
but so was lying down.
Julie was reading on the
veranda, and as I passed I put
my hand on her head and shook
it playfully.
“What about coming for a
drive out to Number-two, young-
’un?” I asked.
She jerked her head
impatiently away, and snapped,
“I’m reading ”
“It’s amazing,” I said. “Posi-
tively amazing that a charming
woman like your mother should
have such an objectionable
child.”
There was a cow down along-
side the trough at Number-two.
She was on her side, and she
proved to be one of those
cantankerous old baggages that
do everything possible to make
their rescue difficult. When I
sat her up she threw herself on
her side again. Time and again
I had her almost up, and each
time she slumped down, an
immovable deadweight for ope
man.
j had a spell. I dipped my
head in the trough and let the
water run down over my sweat-
sopked shirt. The heat of the
barren, blackened inferno was
intolerable. I was exhausted
mentally and physically, full of
self-pity.
My stockmen were in Curly’s
b ar swillin" cold beer Carson
W as swinging-the-lead, ’and his
daughter was having a fit of the
sulks over some fancied slight,
I was all on my own with a host
of problems, the most pressing
and immediate one being a
cantankerous old bitch of a cow
that refused to do a thing to
help herself.
Number-one problem lifted
h er head and eyed me with
obvious hatred. I told her
exactly what I thought of her,
and tackled her again. This time
I actually got her on her feet.
She was weak and shaky, but
by supporting her hindquarters
I kept her upright until she
readjusted herself. All she had
to do then was walk quietly
away. Instead, she swung
around and charged me.
She was so weak I could have
eluded her with ease, but I
wasn’t feeling like eluding any-
thing. I grasped her firmly by
the horns, pushed her head aside
and booted her savagely in the
ribs.
She fell down. I dipped my
bead in the trough, and started it
ad over again,
_
TT was when I got home,
I T had a showe f and changed
but 1 was too tired and dispirited
t 0 ®. a *: ,
Sitting on the veranda I
Srunted when Carson remarked
lhat there was a storm building-
uP,\n,the so f h ’ pearly f? 1 ?
ni §ht for weeks we had watched
storms building-up in the south,
wa c £ ed them build-up and
wa^c hed them fade away,
He pointed out that the frogs
were croaking, and I grunted
again. They croaked hopefully
every time a distant storm
rumbled, only to relapse, like us,
into a hopeless silence as the
night wore on and the storm
receded.
But this storm advanced. The
air was hot, heavy and almost
motionless, the rumbling thunder
grew louder and closer, lightning
flickered constantly, and the
proaking of the frogs grew more
intense.
“We might get something out
of this,” Carson said, and the
frogs chorused, “More water,
more water.”
A vivid flash of lightning
streaked down, illuminating the
garden with the brilliance of
daylight, and, as the crash of
thunder followed, the first drops
(Continued on page 34)
SONG
When you turn and look a<t
me,
Drop your eyes and turn
away
Knowing that everything that
lived has died,
Nothing stirs within my heart
More than when we move
apart
Except the fear that somewhere
I have lied.
Shadows move across the
room
In the silent flow of time —
So late, so long ago, the things
we said.
Could we ever speak again
As we might have spoken then,
How should the living listen to
the dead?
Gently leave if you would
leave,
Grieve if you would ever
grieve
Not for a love ill-fated from the
start,
Graces never found again.
Grief that 1 perhaps have
known,
But for the easy coldness of the
heart.
VICTORIA.
EWAN JONES.


The Vinegard Woman
By JUDITH WRIGHT
Ladrones was scaled like
a lizard with rust and
flaking iron; her decks
were black with diesel-oil,
her holds were sloppy with old,
old water, dark and thick as
soup. They were never covered
now, since all she carried whs
timber—logs for the big mill at
the town, brought from the
forestry-settlement on Cedar
Head.
It was only a six-mile run ;
sometimes Luke managed it in
a day, setting out in the grey of
dawn to the loading-creek, back
in the afternoon, slow as the
river-water itself. But more
often, on the way back,
Ladrones was caught on a
mudbank, for the banks were
always shifting with the tides,
and unless it was high-water the
old hulk, narrow in the beam
and deep - draughted, often
scraped across them or grounded.
Then Luke would stop the engine
on the little launch tied to
Ladrones’ side, which pushed
her up and down river now that
her engines were gone, and play
patience on the oil-black table in
the old galley where he ate and
slept, until the tide was high
again.
If the mudbank happened to
be near Lemon-tree Point, Luke
sometimes sat on deck and
watched the house and the vine-
yard beside it. Except from the
river, he knew nothing of the
place; he had never been there,
though he had often thought,
vaguely, sluggishly, of untying
the dinghy that rocked at
Ladrones’ counter and rowing
across —just rowing across, to
see. For in the house lived the
Vineyard Woman. Sometimes
he saw her hanging out the
washing in the garden, and he
knew from what was on the line
whether she was alone there or
whether the man was at home.
Seldom, nowadays, was the
man at home, it seemed ; Luke
had heard somewhere that he
“worked away.” The washing
was meagre in his absence —a
sheet or two, a towel or two, a
few bright-colored dresses and
what Luke called “bits of things.”
He liked the look of her bare
arms curved above her head as
she pegged and unpegged ; or of
the shape of her shoulders as she
worked between the rows of
vines in the little vineyard. Some-
times she had Waved to him, see-
ing him out on deck;
but Luke was slow-
thinking and slow to move,
and hesitated so long before
answering that now she waved
seldom, only turning briefly to
look at Ladrones as she passed,
ugly and mud-stained, shoved
along by the busy, batting engine
of the diesel-launch.
Luke had been on the Cedar
Head run for ten years ; and like
Ladrones he was getting old. The
work of loading and unloading,
when he had to handle the winch
and manoeuvre the logs into the
holds and out again, was get-
ting too difficult. The bare-
chested, bare-armed young men
on the Forestry-wharf or up at
the mill disconcerted him by
moving too fast, being too iny-
patient, shouting at him when the
winch hovered uncertainly or
made a false move. Once one of
them, bold and black-haired,
had even called him “Pop” and
asked when he was going on
the pension. •
Luke had begun to shake and
turn red ; even now he had not
got over his youthful habit of
blushing when he was angry and
embarrassed. That night he lay
awake a long time in the hard
narrow bunk in Ladrones' galley,
and thought of the young man
and of his words. “Just a bit
of a kid,” he said to the darkness
in the oily room; “a bloody
kid, he needs his nose wiped.
And by the Lord I’d do it,
only . . .”
1 After that, he began to think
of finding someone to help on
Ladrones. It was too much work,
there was no doubt about it; he
had to start the diesel-engine on
the little launch, Seabird she was
called, then climb aboard
Ladrones (the two boats pitch-
ing and bumping together in
rough or windy weather), and
go up to the bridge where the
wheel was, moving fast before
Ladrones swung to the engine’s
shoving.
There he would have to stay
for the rest of the trip, watch-
ing for the channel that was
always changing position; and
then getting into the wharf—
that was a nightmare nowadays,
for there was all that running
up and down the companion and
into Seabird’s cabin to the
engine, and though he had his
own ingenious system of lashing
the wheel and knew his work
to the fraction of an inch, he
was not as fast on his feet now
as he had been, and twice he
had bumped the wharf and
bored off a plank or two, while
the young blokes watching
cursed and laughed.
Luke had been proud of his
handling of the job, but now he
wasn’t; it was a bit too much, a
bit over the odds. He would
have liked to find an older man
to give a hand; someone he
could yam with, someone who
would play cards, who moved at
his own pace. < But there was
no one who would take on the
job, except Leo.
He knew Leo well enough, a
kid from his own street at the
river’s edge. “Just left school
and still needs his nose wiped,”
Luke grumbled to his . wife,
though Leo was nearly 18 now.
Leo was tall and moved well,
a good-looking boy; he played
an accordion and was popular
with girls—the little girls who
crowded in the corner milk-bar
on Luke’s street and worked in
the factory up the town. But
he was what they called a bit of
a lair; he couldn’t keep a job
and had run through three
already, loose-lipped and not
much caring.
T}NGINES, though, were Leo’s
±mJ . gift. He went aboard Seabird
and straightaway knew all that
Luke knew about the little
diesel, and some more as well.
He tightened this and cleaned
that and had her running sweet
as a daisy. He even rigged-up
a shower in the disused cabin
with a pipe for hot water from
the diesel and a tap over the
old basin Luke used for washing
dishes, clothes and hands alike.
He wouldn’t come at tea, how-
ever, which Luke always drank ;
he brought aboard bottles of
soft-drink, which Luke himself
termed lolly-water, or made
coffee, black and synthetic, from
a tin. He brought queer food
aboard too, doughnuts from the
milk-bar and delicatessen-
sausage. But, though he didn’t
join Luke in a game of cards,
preferring to sit on his bunk
and play the accordion, at least
he didn’t interrupt Luke’s games,
and he was swift and handy
with the logs. For a few days-
Luke thought grudgingly that he
might do all right.
Indeed, Leo liked the life. It
was free-and-easy enough, with
Luke in charge and long lazy
times with nothing to do but
tinker with the engine, play the
accordion and cook himself
little messes on the primus while
he waited for Ladrones to reach
the wharf. He brought aboard
an old canvas deckchair begged
from his mother, and fixed up a
kind of awning made from
hessian, where he sat in the
shade on deck while Ladrones
crept along the channel under
Luke’s guiding hand, and played
tunes or read comics or watched
the banks of the river gliding
by mangroves, pasture and
dairy-cows, a house or two, kids
on their way to school. It was
quiet, it was easy; better, he
thought, than the stoking job at
the factory or the mill work or
4he job of yardman at the pub,
which he had tried already and
found too ■ much trouble.
One day, leaning back in the
canvas chair while Ladrones
nosed down-river, he noticed the
house on Lemon-tree Point.
Luke was watching it, too,
through the broken glass on the
bridge, while he handled the
worn old wheel.
The Vineyard Woman was out
in the vineyard picking grapes.
She straightened her back and
watched Ladrones going past,
interested evidently by the awn-
ing and the deckchair and Leo’s
long handsome brown legs
stretched out in the sun. Sud-
denly Luke saw her wave, a
thing she had not done for
months past, but which he was
always uneasily, secretly, pleas-
antly expecting her to do.
With his usual few seconds of
hesitation, he leaned out and
waved back ; but then he saw
that Leo, below him, was waving
too. It took him suddenly aback,
like striking an unexpected mud-
bank. It was as though Leo had
intruded on something personal,
his own and nobody else’s —had
pushed him aside and claimed
the thing for his own. It was as
though Leo had shoved him
away from the wheel of
Ladrones and taken over Luke’s
reason for existing. \
Luke turned very red and
looked away from the Vineyard
Woman, who was still waving
pleasantly; he went on steering
Ladrones meticulously between
the crowding mudbanks. But he
said to himself some time later,
having meanwhile almost for-
gotten the reason for it, “Me
and that boy won’t get on unless
he changes his ways.”
At midday, when Ladrones
was tied to the wharf at Cedar
Head and the loading was half-
done, he met Leo again in the
galley, where the bent and greasy
knives and forks were set on the
table, with the corned meat and
bread and tea for Luke’s meal
on one side, and Leo’s dough-
nuts and hamburger and coffee
on the other. For the first time
Luke felt the need to comment
on Leo’s eating habits.
“Damn’ useless things you eat,
son. That milk-bar stuff isn’t
no good to a man. Why don’t
youse try a bit of honest meat
and tea? Do you more good than
that rot. You’ll be bringing ice-
cream and lollies aboard next.”
Leo looked at him with slight
surprise, raised his eyebrows
and whistled a hit-parade tune
to himself.
13UT he made no answer, eating
busily until his side of the
of the table was cleared.
“Gee,” he said after a while,
leaning back and lighting a
cigarette, “that woman at the
grape-orchard don’t look so bad.
’Jever go ashore and try for a
piece of her, Luke? They tell
me she’s real easy.”
Luke stopped eating, but
found nothing to say and after
a moment started eating again.
“A kid —a kid with his nose
wet! ” He stood up at last, look-
ing at Leo with real dislike, then
went out to the winch and
pretended to be oiling and re-
adjusting it. He was glad when
the two young forestry loaders
came out of their tin huts at the
wharf and lounged down to
start work again.
The tide had been going
down; it was not long on the
o Continued on vase 34)


ill
+
rr
ooa
«>
*T
T
(D
to
aQjA
9R
qlqloyVa \n\a
xxs
tx?
an
5
£2^
AVIATION
SERVICE
4-
La^»
CXT
0
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited , Londor,
Position Vacant
ACTIVE WOMAN required to live in
modem new home, handy city. Every
latest convenience, no heavy laundry
work, light domestic duties; wages
£8 per week. Good accommodation,
wonderful opportunity for right
person to have good home. MRS.
VOET, 14 HINKLER ST., GREEN-
WICH, SYDNEY.
Between
Ourselves
y \
fc.
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a Irtic-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary DupH-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES. ON
APPLICATION
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Ply. tld.
. Norman Bros. Pty. tti.
Vardon Price ttd.
! Docket Book Co. (Aost.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy second-hand set Italian
Linguaphone records complete with
books for student. —6367.
To buy any books by Steele Rudd.
—6368.
To buy Enumeratio plantorum Aus-
tralia occidentalis, by Ch. A. Gardner
(1931); Melbourne Album (Mel-
bourne, 1863-64), Victoria: Gold
diggings and diggers as they are
(Melbourne, 1852), and Views in
Sydney: a series of 24 lithographs,
all by S. T. Gill (Sydney, 1856-62);
Hits: Skits: Jingles, by W. T. Goodge
(1899); and King of the Ranges, by
Nat Gould. — 6369.
To buy Pryor’s books on Cornish
characters, etc. —6370.
Information Supplied
From N. G. Mills: When I came to
live in the Brisbane suburb of
Moorooka, about 37 years ago, I was
told by one of the oldest inhabitants
that Moorooka meant “place of the
ironbark.” At that time there were
many narrow-leaved ironbarks in the
district.
* * * *
From “Irogan”: The name
Camooweal, I believe, derives from
an aboriginal word meaning “lagoon
of lilies” or “lily-covered lagoon.”
There is such a lagoon close to the
town.
Information Sought
(1) What is the law of naturalisation
as applied to wives? (2) Is there an
international body to decide disputes
on nationality ?
(1) Whether a woman acquires the
nationality of her husband on
marriage depends entirely on the
nationality laws of the country of
which the husband is a national.
These fall into three classes —(a)
where the woman does, not auto-
matically acquire the husband’s
nationality; (fe) where the woman
acquires the husband’s nationality
only if she loses her original nation-
ality on marriage; and (c) where the
woman automatically acquires her
husband’s nationality by reason of
marriage. The important thing is the
nationality of the husband and not
the country in which the marriage
takes place—e.g., an Australian
woman who marries an American
national does not acquire American
nationality regardless of whether the
marriage takes. place in Australia or
in America. An Australian woman
who marries a foreigner retains her
Australian citizenship whether or not
she acquires her husband’s nation-
ality by reason of marriage. This is
provided for by the Nationality and
Citizenship Act 1948, which came
into force on Jan. 26, 1949. Another
effect of that Act was to restore
British nationality to Australian
women who had lost that status by
marriage to foreigners before that
date. (2) There is no international
body to decide disputes on questions
of nationality.
* * * *
Some information on Camooweal
and district ?
Camooweal, eight miles inside
Queensland from the Northern
Territory border, stands on the
eastern edge of the Barkly Tableland.
To the east there is a wide belt of
level, timbered country and open
black-soil plains, stretching up to the
ranges of Cloncurry. It is 143 miles
by road north-west of Mt. Isa, with
the nearest railhead at Mt. Cuthbert,
over 100 miles away; it has an air-
field. Settlement began in the district
in the 1860’s, following its discovery
by William Landsborough in 1861
when searching for Burke and Wills.
Development was slow at first,
because of isolation, lack of
permanent water and the menace of
the blacks; in fact it ceased altogether
for a time, and in 1877 the explorer
Alexander Kennedy found the
Camooweal district “deserted.” Then
settlement revived, some of those
prominent in opening-up the country
being Stuart Russell, John Costello,
Murray, Crosswaite and Tetley; the
Rocklands Pastoral Company, from
the 1880’s, also did much to develop
Camooweal. The township dates from
1882, when a man named Cronin
opened a store where it now stands.
Population (1947 census), town and
district, 233.
* * * *
Some information on the English
painter Charles Eastlake, who painted
Napoleon ?
Sir Charles Lock Eastlake (1793-
1865), knighted in 1850, is noted in
particular for banditti pictures, painted
during his stay in Rome (1817-30).
He was keeper of the British National
Gallery from 1843 to 1847, and
became a director in 1855. R.A. in
1830, he was president of the Royal
Academy in 1850. In 1815, from a
small boat in Plymouth harbor, he
made sketches of Napoleon, then a
prisoner aboard H.M.S. Bellerophon,
from which he produced two full-
length portraits of the ex-Emperor.
Some of his best-known other works
are “Pilgrims arriving in sight of
Rome” (1828), “Byron’s Dream”
(1834) and “Christ lamenting over
Jerusalem” (1843).
* * * *
(1) Does the N.S.W. Cooperation
Act permit the use of plural voting
in dairy co-operatives ? (2) Can shares
be transferred to minors ? (3) Can a
member of a co-op. society examine
the co.’s share-register ?
(1) The N.S.W. Acting Registrar of
Co-operative Societies states that,
under the N.S.W. Co-operation Act,
1923-1954, a member has one vote,
but, if authorised by the rules, may
at a poll be entitled to not more than
two additional votes allotted in a
rural society, such as a dairy co-
operative, on the basis of business
done with the society by the member
during the previous financial year.
However, co-operatives originally
registered as companies under the
Companies Act, 1899, were, on the
passing of the 1923 Act, permitted to
transfer their registration to the
latter Act with substantial preserva-
tion of earlier rights. If members
were entitled to multiple voting-
rights, they retained such rights when
their company was registered as a
society under the Co-operation Act.
Some of these societies later altered
their rules to limit votes of members,
but in a few instances multiple voting-
rights are still retained. (2) There is
no prohibition on transfer of shares
to minors in those co-operatives where
minors are admitted. However,
minors are not qualified to be mem-
bers of rural-credit or small-loans
societies. In the case of any other
society, unless otherwise provided by
the rules, a minor may be a member
and may execute all instruments and
give all necessary acquittances, but
is not competent to vote or hold
any office in the society or be one
of the seven or more members by
whom a society is formed. (3) The
Co-operation Act allows a member
to inspect at the registered office
of the society at all reasonable hours
the register of members, directors and
shares.
Brief Answers
Janet: The first letterboxes in
N.S.W. were set-up in Sydney streets
exactly 100 years ago, in 1856. They
were not always red (they were often
green), and they have varied also in
shape and size; and there have been
iron and wooden ones. Britain,
France and other European countries
had introduced mailboxes earlier
(around 1840), but there were older
mail-collection schemes. For instance,
in 1653 Louis XIV of France had
boxes for the gathering of letters put
up in various quarters of Paris and
other cities, but this scheme was very
soon discontinued... .C.H.C.: (1)
Very difficult to give a satisfactory
answer. “Britain 1950-51,” produced
by the Central Office of Information,
London, says “Personal consumption
in 1949 is estimated to have been
about 2 p.c. higher, in real terms,
than in 1948. Food-consumption
appears to have inoreased by about
4 p.c. in volume in 1949; consumers
[also] bought considerably more
furniture in 1949 than in 1948, more
clothes, more newspapers and
magazines. The leal level of personal
consumption in 1949 was perhaps 6
p.c. higher than in 1938.” The 1955
edition of the same handbook, the
latest available here, does not institute
any similar comparison for the follow-
ing years. (2) Bearing in mind the
different wage-levels, different hours
of work and several other matters of
difference between the two countries,
it would be even more difficult to
attempt any sort of comparison of
the relative cost-of-living in each
country... .K.R.: Gavin Casey’s
story “The Hairy Men from Han-
nigan’s Halt” was published in B.
1/10/’52 R.L.W.: No information
available on the money invested in
that industry in Argentina....
G.C.R.: Information desired is too
lengthy to be furnished by letter or in
the columns of a newspaper, but it
may be found in “A Guide to Mining
Laws in New South Wales,” obtain-
able from the N.S.W. Department of
Mines, P.O. Box 48, Sydney, or the
Warden’s Clerk, East Maitland
(N.S.W.), at a cost'of 25., plus 3d.
postage J.W.: Her Majesty Queen
Mary died at Marlborough House,
while sleeping peacefully, on March
24, 1953 C.H.: Hall and Knight’s
Algebra has been revised several
.times since 1891, and there is, there-
fore, no demand and no resale value.
G.H.T.: No details of its cost, in
money or lives, has been published.
. ...8.J.R.: Cyclops, in classical
mythology and Homer’s Odyssey, was
the name of a race of giants with one
eye (in the plural, Cyclopes); Poly-
phemus was an individual Cyclops,
the one who confined Odysseus and
his companions in his cave and
devoured two daily until blinded by
Odysseus T.M.: A story by
Bernard Cronin, “Three of a Kind,”
appeared in The Bulletin of Oct.
23, 1946 J.M.: (1) After the
N.S.W. elections of March 3 this year
there were 49 Labor and one Ind.
Labor in a House of 94; in the
N.S.W. Upper House there are 36
Labor in a House of 60. (2) For
questions about the Upper House
see leading-article “The House They
Won’t Blow Down” (B. 28/3/’56).
J.A.R.: Some of the heaviest
rainfalls recorded in N.S.W. up to
1950 have been (for 24 hours) —
Dorrigo, 25.04 in. (June 24, 1950),
Cordeaux River, 22.58 (Feb. 14,
1898), Morpeth, 21.52 in. (Mar. 9,
1893), Broger’s Creek, 20.83 in. (Jan.
13, 1911), Mt. Pleasant, 20.10 in.
(May 5, 1925), Viaduct Creek, 20in.
(Mar. 15, 1936), Bulahdelah, 19.80 in.
(Apr. 16, 1927), Madden’s Creek,
18.68 in. (Jan. 13, 1911) and Mt.
Kembla, 18.25 in. (also Jan. 13, 1911).
G.C.: David Campbell’s two
ballads “The Speewah Picnics” (B.
24/2/’54) and “The Miracle of
Mullion Hill” (B. 17/3/’54) should
suit admirably for recital M’Lou:
See the 1955 Writers and Artists’ Year
Book, printed by A. and C. Black,
London, which lists Australian
journals and magazines, publishers
and broadcasting requirements, etc.
T.P.B.: Despite your operations,
further surgical attention may be
needed. Antiseptic nasal-drops give
temporary relief, and post-nasal
washes may be used under super-
vision. See your doctor R.A.R.:
The rubberised strip with metal
thread trailing from a car takes static
electricity to the ground, and thereby
acts as an insulator. Some persons,
especially children, are affected by
electric discharge accumulated within
the car. Certain tablets, as for air-
and sea-travel, can be given for adult
and child A.E.P.: (1) Write Public
Library, Wellington, N.Z. (2) Some
Modern Maoris, by Ernest and Pearl
Beaglehole (1946), Maori Picture, by
Mary F. Moore, the story of the
Maoris in N.Z. from their arrival to
the present day, told for children
(1947), The Moa-hunter Period of
Maori Culture, by R, Duff (1950), and
Cyril G. Bunt’s What Was Their Life
in Ao Tea Roa, edited by R. Fawcett
(1952), also written for children. (All
available, Sydney Public Library.).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.H.: Liked the authentic broad-
casting-background, but the story in
the foreground was back in the horse-
and-buggy days A.J.S.: Stall-story
stalled A. 8.: Hardly our country;
can’t suggest anywhere you could
place them here P.K.: Hit would
be foolish for us to ’old hout hany
’opes —no one writes like that, these
days WJ.E.: “Spiders Must
Wait” —but we moved on L.F.H.:
That story’s always got to be good
before we reprint it E.M.C.: Your
imaginary garden will not fit our
window-b0x.... G.P.O’S.: Worth
doing better N.F.W.: Kisses
among the cliches!... .F.M.: “It’s a
gole medal yore gointer git”—not
frum us it ain’t E.E.: The road
to critical celebrity, Madam, is more
likely to be paved with other people’s
good intentions than the critic’s
S.H.: What is “a typical woman of
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
the outback”? 8.K.: It would
make a good story, properly told; but
you vary your method between
historical narrative and telegram
A.McD.: Too slight C.H.: Your
slap doesn’t stick, but we admired
your hand-printing.,. .A.M.D.: “Bill
and Mad Mick both can’t read on
account of they never been ter
enny school at all an’ I was taught a
bit be me mother when I was a kid”
—Aw, gwan; youse just havin’ us on!
... .L.F.: “For days I have known
no peace, for long nights 1 have not
slept. My hand trembles as I write”
—You’ve been reading Poe again.
....M.A.H.: Too sweet for here.
... .A. 8.: Too many Saturday morn-
ings ago F.G.: It’s been done
better A.C.: Ended well:
“Tomorrow we’ll visit your auntie’s
grave if it’ll make you feel any better.”
....“L.”: There should be a home
for dog-stories, but this isn’t it.
F.C.: It was fashionable twenty
or thirty years ago... .T.M.: It’s got
something, but not enough... .P.C.:
Not bad. but depressing; you have
to be cynically amusing with such
stories M.M.A.: A paragraph to
the page, and all full of cliches
1.K.: Not, in this year of grace, a
parable about an Artist, a Publisher
and a Dreamer! P.P.: Nor about
Friday the 13th! A. 8.: Well, the
V.D.C. were always a little old-
fashioned J.G.: All, all are gone,
the over-familiar faces D.O’G.:
Not bad J.H.: Do they still write
2000-word literary essays?


Breaking the Stalin Idol
The Moscow Mystery
By M. H. ELLIS
THE whole Communist
world is still groggy from
the blows inflicted through
Khrushchev’s denunci-
ation of Stalin. A text has been
circulated of a 25,000-word state-
ment which he was supposed to
have made on the subject; this
has not been officially acknow-
ledged by Khrushchev, and is in-
consistent with some main fea-
tures of his official report to the
Communist party, delivered only
a few days before his fantastic
attack was made.
The staggering thing about the
statement is that there is virtu-
ally nothing new in it. It merely
repeats with embroidery and
colorful additions statements
which have been made the world
over and feverishly denied in
abusive terms by the Kremlin
and by all Communist parties
during the last 30 years.
Such suggestions, for instance,
as that the murder of Kirov,
Stalin’s supposed friend, Which
was the excuse for triggering-off
the huge purge of 1935-38, was
organised by Stalin himself ; that
Ordzhonokidze, who supposedly
died of heart-failure (like
Zhdanov, who was marked down
as Stalin’s possible successor;
Dmitrov, of the Comintern, and
a host of others), was forced by
Stalin to suicide; that 70 per
cent, of the 139 members of
the Central Committee of the
Russian Communist party elected
in 1935 were done away with,
mostly in 1937-38 ; that since
1954 the Russian Supreme Court
has “rehabilitated” 7679 persons
(some posthumously) who were
convicted and mostly slaugh-
tered ; and that various pro-
minent Soviet citizens were
tortured to force them to give
false evidence.
It is no wonder that this and
subsequent documents which
have been issued were a shock to
the Communjst world ; and it is
significant that this astonishing
statement was circulated on the
eve of Tito’s visit to Russia, and
four months after it was
allegedly made, without being
either officially acknowledged or
repudiated. /
There is a rumor in the Aus-
tralian Communist world that it
was made under the same in-
fluence which involved Messrs.
Bulganin and Khrushchev in a
drunken scene at a banquet in
Moscow early this month. There
is certainly evidence that what-
ever was said the author or
authors of it ate now sorry and
are busy trying to find ways to
extricate themselves.
Even a confirmed Communist
of low mentality—even one of
the Australian brand now
“De Volkskrant,” Amsterdam
“LOOK OUT, COMRADE, YOU’RE SPILLING IT ON
YOURSELF."
This is the first of two articles which aim to let a
little daylight into the affairs of Soviet Russia,
particularly in regard to the breaking of the Stalin idol
and Khrushchev’s reported speech on that strange issue.
advertising in the official
“Tribune” details of the sad
careers of Russians who emi-
grated to this country and are
being compelled to return to
Moscow to avoid starvation —
could scarcely be credulous
enough to believe that everything
that happened (most of it long-
ago reported in The Bulletin
and received with shrieks of
derision by the Communist press
and its Leftist-Labor sup-
porters and long-haired fellow-
travellers) could have happened
without the connivance of both
Khrushchev and, since the war,
of Bulganin.
Khrushchev
Khrushchev (whose name
means “promoted man”) was
born in 1894 in Kursk province,
son of a coalminer. He began
life as a shepherd-boy, became
a miner, joined the Communist
party in 1918, fought in the
Civil War in the Ukraine, was
educated by the party, headed
the party-organisation in the
Industrial Academy, and made
his position with Stalin good by
attacking Trotsky.
Stalin appointed him a dis-
trict party-boss in 1934, and
made him Second Secretary to
the Moscow Communist party in
1935, when the Old Leninists
began to be purged. He was now
second in command to Kagano-
vich, Stalin’s brother-in-law, so
that he was right in the inner
Stalinist circle.
He was one of those who pur-
sued the gentle Bukharin, whom
Stalin viciously chased to his
death (Bukharin had nicknamed
Stalin “J eng h i s Khan”).
Kaganovich took charge of
Soviet railways in 1935 ; Khrush-
chev succeeded him as party-
commissar controlling Moscow
city and province.
He received the Order of
Lenin (only awarded as. Stalin’s
personal gift) after the 1938
purge, and was appointed, at the
end of the purge, to the vital
post of head of the party in the
Ukraine, a position of the most
vital importance controlling
30,000,000 of the most rebellious
subjects of the U.S.S.R.
He must have been whole-
heartedly behind the purges in
which every dissident element —
even the whole Soviet Supreme
Court Bench after it had tried
the rest —was ruthlessly blotted
out. He must have been also
one of Stalin’s favorites over a
long period, since he held control
of the Ukraine (with a war-time
interval) right up to the time of
Stalin’s death.
At the Top
In 1939, at 45, he received
from Stalin the Order of the Red
Banner and was made a member
of the Polit-Bureau of 11 which
formed Stalin’s intimate party
Cabinet. He and Zhdanov (who
died so suddenly in 1948) came
in together.
Beria and Malenkov did not
come in till 1946. It can be
taken, therefore, that Khrush-
chev was promoted as one of the
two non-members who achieved
special distinction and gave
special service during (and who
fully approved of) the wholesale
purges of 1935-38, with all their
cruelty, torture and perfidy to old
friends and supporters.
During the war Khrushchev
was made a lieutenant-general
and became political head of the
Red Army of the Southern
Front, which included Stalin-
grad.
In the Official History of the
Communist Party of Russia,
written after the war by Stalin
personally, it was stated:
The work of the Communist com-
missars was of decisive importance in
the consolidation and political
education of the Red Army and in
raising its discipline and fighting
efficiency. The Red Army was
victorious because.... (b} its political
education was in the hands of men
like Molotov, Kaganovich, Mikoyan,
Zhdanov, Ardreyev, Khrushchev, and
Shvernik, (c) the military commissars
cemented the ranks of the Red Army,
fostered in them the spirit of
discipline, and energetically—swiftly
and relentlessly—cut short the
treacherous activities of certain com-
manders.
Nobody among the com-
missars—mark that Khrushchev
was bracketed among them in the
ranks of the most faithful
Stalinists and purgers—repudi-
ated these compliments to their
ruthlessness until last February,
when Stalin was the
whole blame.
After the end of the war
Khrushchev resumed his office
as head of the Ukrainian Com-
munist party, and—save for a
time when he left it to help
reorganise Poland and to re-
organise the Ukraine Govern-
ment, when he was replaced by
Kaganovich, Stalin’s particular
friend and relation by marriage
—he held on till Stalin’s death.
After the War
Poland makes a good starting-
point from which to view his
post-war progress. It is curious
that Poland was both Stalin’s
and Khrushchev’s special play-
thing, and that Khrushchev
should have been chosen to head
the delegation of Soviet engineers
and planning-experts who were
sent to Warsaw to arrange for
the rebuilding of the capital.
The Russians, as much as any-
body, had been responsible for
razing Warsaw to the ground,
when they betrayed the loyal
Poles during the war and sat by
while the Germans wiped them
out —some say giving the Ger-
mans more than a little help with
the bomber and firestick.
Stalin certainly would not
have chosen a man for such a
job who was not entirely in his
confidence and favor. Stalin, in
fact, felt that Poland, at that
stage, was so important that he
in person signed the post-war
Soviet-Polish treaty of 1945,
whereas other treaties with
satellite countries were left for
Molotov to sign.
After 1945 there were con-
siderable changes in the party-
organisation, which was the real
Government in the Soviet Union,
but which abdicated to Stalin
in person during the war.
It was obvious that Stalin was
growing old and that he was not
in the best of health, and rivalries
began to arise.
Also, death began to play
havoc with the ranks again. In
"Washington Post"
"YOU WERE ALWAYS A GREAT FRIEND OF
MINE, JOSEPH."
Her block’s Pulitzer Prize cartoon, done at the time of Stalin’s
death, seems to gain added significance from the destruction
of the Stalin legend by his former collaborators.
1946 the aged Kalinin died. He
was replaced in the Polit-Bureau
by. Beria, who had been an
alternate (“candidate”) member
since 1939, when he had been in
the inner U.S.S.R. War Cabinet
(which, of course, was a body
subordinate to the senior party-
organisations).
At the same time Malenkov
was promoted. He had been a
fellow-commissar with Khrush-
chev in the group under Kagano-
vich in the early ’thirties.
It will be seen that Stalin
singled out this group primarily
for high promotion.
In the following year Vos-
nesenky, a protege of Zhdanov,
was added. He was the only
scientist on the supreme body.
Tito’s Break
In 1948 came the quarrel with
Tito, and his severance from the
Cominform. Now, the interest-
ing thing is that Khrushchev’s
alleged speech, supposedly made
last February, specifically threw
the blame for the breach
between the U.S.S.R. and Tito
on Stalin personally. And its
leakage was obviously designed
four months later in time to
convince Tito on this point.
Khrushchev allegedly said:
I recall the first days when the
conflict between the Soviet Union
and Yugoslavia began artificially to
be blown up. Once, when I came
from Kiev to Moscow, I was invited
to visit Stalin, who, pointing to the
copy of a letter lately sent to Tito,
asked me, “Have you read this?”
Not waiting for my reply, he
answered: “I will shake my little
finger—and there will be no more
Tito. He will fall.” We have paid
dearly for his “shaking of the little
finger.” You see to what Stalin’s
megalomania led.
As if to drive home the opposi-
tion of the party to Stalin’s ruth-
less wickedness, Molotov (who
had been virtually out of office
for months) and Kaganovich
left their. Soviet Government
Ministries as I ito arrived on his
triumphant visit, but remained
in the superior Party Presidium.
In all this stage-management
Khrushchev and his associates
have ignored some important
facts, which cannot be denied,
and which are on record in Corn-
munist official documentation,
though nobody seems to have
resurrected them.
The row with Tito blew-up in
mid-1948 between the greater
section of the members of the
Cominform and Tito, who
refused an invitation to have the
Yugoslav Communist party
represented at a conference in
Bucharest. The main repre-
sentative of the U.S.S.R. on the
Cominform was Zhdanov, who,
at the inaugural meeting in 1947,
had opened the attack on the
United States as an aggressor
nation bent upon the “enslave-
ment of Europe.”
The attack on Tito was made
in a communique issued by the
Presidium of the Cominform —
which, of course, included
several representatives of
countries outside Russia. It was
supposedly based on a report by
the Central Committee of the
Communist Party of Russia. The
Cominform complained that
Yugoslavia had established a
policy inimical to Russia, and
that it had begun to treat Russia
“as if it were an imperialist and
bourgeois Power,” and also of
“listening to the enticements of
the West.”
Then Zhdanov, who had been
looked on as the likely successor
of Stalin, died very suddenly in
September, 1948. And it was
the Central Committee of the
Communist party —not Stalin—-
which published ift “Pravda,’
over its official symbolic letters,
a leading article in which it gave
the full imprimatur of the party
to what Zhdanov had done to
destroy relations with Tito.
(i Continued on page 27)


There’s
Si
<0
E
te
0
0
y
°A
&C®,
o*
a glass
of Sheaf
puts new
life
Into you!
/STTet.i»
in
every
glass!
STOUT
Brewed and bottled by
O.LIM I T E D
TOOTH
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Royal Star ran on strongly to
beat a moderate field in the
A.J.C. Three-year-old Maiden for
fillies, giving T. J. Smith, who
won the premiership in the year
just ended, his first winner of
the 1956-57 season. Later in the
day Smith made it a double
when Crimson Pirate narrowly
won the Welter. Royal Star is
by Star Kingdom (imp.) from
Echo by Double Remove (imp.)
from Tittle Tattle by Constant
Son (imp.).
Night Mail, winner of the
Second Three-year-old Maiden
at Randwick, is a son of Damnos
(Fr.) from Sunshine Express by
White Ensign (imp.) from
Gailmond by Veilmond. T. D.
Brosnan, a young trainer who
received his licence from the
A.J.C. only a few days before
his colt won, is a son of veteran
Tim Brosnan, of Lough Neagh
fame.
Man-o’-War, raced by golfer
Norman von Nida in partner-
ship with C. Isabeth, and trained
at Randwick by M. McCarten,
mightn’t be long in winning a
race. He has started only twice.
At his first run he shaped poorly,
but last Saturday was a good
second to Night Mail. Man-o’-
War is one of the few sons of
imported High Forest to race in
Australia. High Forest is at
stud in New Zealand ; his oldest
progeny began their third birth-
day on August 1. High Forest
won seven races in England, and
was a game and genuine stayer.
He’s a son of Bois Roussel and
Caerwys by Caerleon.
Quite a number of country
gallopers have lately been
winning at Sydney metropolitan
meetings, the latest at time of
During the racing season just
ended Australasian time-records
remained unchanged. This
wasn I surprising so far as
Sydney was concerned, and to
a lesser degree Melbourne,
because most of the tracks had
much more than the usual rain-
fall. Actually, it’s more than two
years since an alteration was
made to the list of fastest times
for Australia, last change being
Gallant Archer’s 11 furlongs at
Eagle Farm in June, 1954. He
ran the distance in 2.15£. A
few months earlier Birdwood
had run furlongs at Caulfield
(Oakleigh Plate) in the record
time of lmin. 4sec.
Sir Nilo easily won the open-
ing event of the 1956-57 Sydney
season, the A.J.C.’s First Three-
year-old Maiden for colts and
geldings last Saturday. Trained
at Randwick by J. Mackinnon
for W. J.‘Davis, Sir Nilo is from
Laudable, a Law Maker (imp.)
mare from Lovable by Gilt Edge
from Trey by The Welkin (imp.).
Lovely Day is a brother of Sir
Nilo, who also is related to
Trivalve (two Derbies and the
Melbourne Cup).
Gentle Lu, a well-developed
four-year-old mare, easily won
at her first start since arriving
from New Zealand, landing
Randwick’s Neutral Bay Handi-
cap. She had won the New
Zealand Oaks (11 mile), and later
was successful at six furlongs.
She hadn’t started since the
middle of February, when
unplaced at weight-for-age at
Waikato. Gentle Lu is by Count
Rendered (imp.).
writing being Mulgabirra, who
overcame obstacles and gave the
field a start and a beating in the
A.J.C. Second Novice. Mulga-
birra, raced by J. Edwards, is
trained at Hawkesbury by W. W.
Chaffe, jnr. A five-year-old
gelding by Whirlaway (imp.)
from Future Gift, Mulgabirra
has won about a dozen races, and
more will soon be heard of him
in the city radius, because he
can still compete in moderate
company.
Within a month of changing
stables the four-year-old horse
Chateau King has won twice and
was third at his other start, which
pleased his country owner,
K. Wallace, and new mentor,
R. J. Duggan, jnr., but some
credit should go to Rosebery
trainer E. B. Beck for getting
the natty galloper ready to win
his opening race. Chateau King
and Amboise (who won later in
the afternoon at Randwick) are
both by Chateau Roussel (imp.).
Chateau King’p dam, Posmaine,
is bred on staying lines —by Pos-
terity (imp.) from Charmaine by
Manfred from Lady Swynford
by Cardinal Beaufort (imp.).
Jockey George Moore pro-
duced all his former guile, vigor
and ability to win two races and
finish third in three others on
the first day he resumed riding
at Randwick*, On Amboise in
the Newport Trial he had a
fairly easy task, but it was in
the last stride only that he got
Crimson Pirate ahead of out-
sider Royal Inn in the Clontarf
Handicap, final event of the
eight-race card. Harry Darwon,
racing Amboise on lease, believes
the five-year-old Chateau Rous-
sel (imp.) gelding will prove a
worth-while stayer i;i the current
season. Amboise is in the
Metropolitan on 7.3, and has
7.5 in the Melbourne Cup. He
should stay the two miles of the
Cup, because his dam, Somehow,
was got by Harinero (imp.) from
Our Legion by Legionnaire
(imp.) from Orula by The Nut
(imp.).
At Caulfield on Saturday the
going was fast, and Arabil won
the Australian Hurdle (two miles
5 furlongs and 65yds.) in
which went close to the race-
and track-record. Always
travelling well, he jumped to
the front at the second-last
hurdle and was not again headed.
R. J. Skelton, New Zealand’s
leading horseman, of the latest
season, won 72 races, four more
than J. Thompson won in the
Sydney metropolitan area during
the 12 months. Skelton’s main
engagements so far are J. G.
Barton’s New Zealand gallopers
Ark Royal, Nuclear and Persia
Peril, due to race in Melbourne
during the spring round. Ark
Royal is to be set for the Mel-
bourne Cup. He has an excellent
winning-record.
Syntax topped the New
Zealand winning-list for the
1955-56 season with £19,105.
Leading sire was Count Ren-
dered (imp.). His progeny won
58 races, and, with 75 minor
places, earned £43,837 in stakes.
He’s the sire of Syntax.
A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter
will enlighten members further
on the club’s £11,363 loss for
the racing-season just ended
when they gather for the annual
meeting next Friday week. A
record roll-up is expected,
because the report was not
anticipated. Main causes of the
loss were taxation (£577,600 to
the State), wet race-days, and the
ever-rising costs of wages and
maintenance. Rain on six main
days caused a drop of upwards
of 67,000 in attendance-figures
compared with the same days
of the 1954-55 season.
Eleven of the 18 two-year-old-
trials winners at Randwick last
September subsequently won
races, some with distinction. Gay
Sierra and Starover proved top-
class colts. Biggest disappoint-
ment was Orionis, who cleared
out to win her heat by 10 lengths
in 48J-sec., equalling the best
time for the 18 contests, which
time was made by Greater, also
a race-disappointment. Rand-
wick’s two-year-old trials this
year will be held on Wednesday,
September 12.
“P.0.M.C.”: Geoff Lane's 37
winners for the season sets new
figures for apprentices in Mel-
bourne. Jim Munro, Jack
Thompson and the late Bill
Lapin all bettered that perform-
ance as apprentices in Sydney,
while each actually won the
jockeys’ premiership at least once
while serving his time, a feat yet
to be equalled by a junior in
Melbourne.
* * *
A six weeks’ let-up, in which
time the Harold Park surface
"Is this your best, Pop?"
was treated to its seasonal top-
dressing, and Sydney’s trotting
is back in swing. Best per-
formances at the first two meet-
ings since the break have been
handed in by pacers Brilliant
Moon, Chasfield (each with two
wins) and the promising square-
gaiter Austral Sky. An attractive
little black, with long mane and
tail, Brilliant Moon hiked his
gig round on one good wheel
and the rim of the other to
rate 2.8 on the first night, and
the next week ran away from
his opponents to win with his
ears pricked. The little fellow
is Inter-Dominion material. A
solid-looking blue-grey, Chas-
field is one to watch in better
races in the spring. He’s done it
the hard way in recent weeks,
but he’s a real horse, and thrives
on a hard run.
+ ■+*
The fipe went out of the Aus-
tralians it Old Trafford and the
Ashes remained —with England,
deservedly, as having the players
better able to take advantage of
whatever conditions offered. (Yet
Australia did have a share of
bad luck.) After the English
batsmen had hit-up the runs,
victory was completed by off-
spinner Laker, whose 19 wjckets
in the match set several new
Test-records and helped him
along to beating Bedser’s 1953
Test-record of 39 wickets for a
series, which he now equals.
Only three Australian batsmen
came out of the Test with credit
—the openers, McDonald and
Burke, in both innings, and
Craig, in the second. Burke,
who’s been in and out of Aus-
tralian Test-teams since he was
picked for his first Test in the
1950-51 season, has played some
fine Test-knocks on this tour of
England. Craig and McDonald,
both of whom had bad luck on
the ’53 tour of England and
failed, and whose selection for
this tour was criticised for that
reason in some quarters, have
both also earned their trip.
Apropos, ever since he entered
first-class cricket McDonald has
had a bad “press,” particularly
in Sydney, but he’s often
chalked-up the runs—more than
once, as at Manchester, when
the going was toughest.
* * *
Three of Saturday’s V.F.L.
games had bearing on the
premiership. Geelong, at home,
had a thrilling two-point win over
Melbourne (8.10-8.8); it was
hard, even slogging all through,
culminating in a splendid last
quarter, in which Melbourne
kicked five of its eight goals.
Collingwood, also at home but
minus three or four stars, was
defeated by Carlton, 12.12-9.17
—second time the Blues had
downed ’Wood this year; like
Geelong-Melbourne, it was hard,
tight football, fairly fought.
South shocked Footscray, 10.10-
8.15; after this defeat, and
Carlton’s win, ’Scray will now
need luck-and-a-half to make the
finals. In the other games
Hawthorn toppled St. Kilda 15.8-
12.9, Richmond clon k e d
Essendon 13.13-11.13, and North,
stung no doubt by all the unkind
things said of it lately, got stuck
into Fitzroy, 14.21-8.8.
Sydney Rugby Union’s match
of the day, between St. George
and Manly, resulted in an easy
20-6 win for the Saints, who are
now in third place on the table;
any chance the Villagers had
of qualifying has now gone. The
two leaders won comfortably,
Gordon downing Eastwood 17-6
and Randwick up-ending Parra-
matta 25-12. Drummoyne—a
capable side, though near the
bottom rung defeated East,
which as a result slides from third
to fourth, 16-11 ; and University
scotched North 17-6. In another
Union game in Sydney on
Saturday a heavier G.P.S. side
easily held-off Combined High
Schools, 17-0.
In Wellington (N.Z.) South
Africa, the better team, defeated
N.Z. in the second Test 8-3.
N.Z. had won the first Test 10-6.
“Dentonio”: The Canadian
Rugby Union team from St.
George College, Vancouver,
which has concluded a three
weeks’ tour of Australia, playing
against schools and colleges, is
the second overseas school
Rugby Union side to visit Aus-
tralia. The first was from Te
Aute Maori College (N.Z.), and
its visit —to N.S.W. —took place
as far back as 1904. Te Aute
played Newington, St. Joseph’s,
Fort Street, Combined Bathurst
Schools, Combined G.P.S. and
Sydney University, and had easy
wins in all matches except the
last two. It drew with G.P.S. 6-6,
and went down to ’Varsity 6-9.
St. George College’s record
wasn’t as good.
* * *
At the baseball carnival in
Adelaide, N.S.W., which won
the Claxton Shield last year,
failed, taking only one of the
four games it played. Victoria,
in particular, and W.A. and S.A.
had the best teams this year. In
the last inter-State game of the
carnival, between Victoria and
S.A., S.A. was leading 5-4 when
the S.A. pitcher deliberately gave
away a run, to tie the game. S.A.
had to win by two runs to gain
the percentage needed for a
play-off; and its one hope of
winning the Shield was therefore
to prolong the game, additional
innings being granted from a
tie. However, the umpire didn’t
see it that way, and very properly
awarded the game to Victoria,
which thus becomes new holder
of the Shield.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■! . i
um
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
G E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
'e
y Appointment
to H. M. King
frederik IX
8y Appointment
to the late
Kino Georoe VI
By Appointment
to H. M. King
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to hi. M. the
Oueen of the
Netherlands
CUM M*w»
t- KCFRIME O COP£K*ifU
Cherry
1 Heering
tIMt <BlB Denmark's
liqueur delight
for your after
k -
dinner enjoymenf
far**
OfM-^
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
Bulganin’s Rise
The loss of Zhdanov, virtually
No. 2 in the Russian hierarchy,
naturally resulted in the rise of
new stars. One special one was
already rising, and had been for
some years Bulganin, the
present stooge-Premier, who acts
in the Russian Government as
the voice of Khrushchev.
Bulganin, with Kaganovich and
Khrushchev, had been entrusted
with the building of the greater
part of the Moscow subway. In
1938, when war seemed possible,
directly after the purges, Stalin
had elevated him to be president
of the Russian National Bank,
in charge of the issue of cur-
rency, the collector of all taxa-
tion, the virtual Treasurer of the
U.S.S.R. He was chosen by his
Generalissimo as Political Com-
missar of the Moscow front
when the Germans were attack-
ing in 1941—the front on which
he had political ascendancy over
the godlike Timoshenko (darl-
ing of the Western flapper-press)
and Zhukov. And then, having
served on the inner War
Cabinet, to which only Stalin’s
most trusted and loyal lieu-
tenants were admitted, his career
was crowned when he succeeded
his leader as Minister for the
Armed Forces. He had risen as
a Stalin, not a party, man.
Now it appears that, through
all these years when he was next
to Stalin, serving him, closely
favored by him as one of his
most intimate staff, he was horri-
fied and disgusted by Stalin’s
awful, individualist proceedings.
He was chosen a member of
the Central Committee of the
Communist party in 1939 after
Stalin had (January 20, 1939),
according to Khrushchev, sent a
coded telegram to party and
local authorities throughout the
Soviet Union reminding them
that torture could be used to
secure confessions, and that “the
Central Committee of the All-
Union Communist Party con-
siders that physical pressure
should still be used obligatorily,
as an exception applicable to
known and obstinate enemies of
the people, as a method both
justifiable and appropriate.”
Khrushchev, presumably with
Bulganin’s agreement, now says
that many at that time were
executed even before trial, and
quotes a judge who said he had
been “told that certain accused
were people’s enemies,” and
that therefore it was his “duty
to make them confess that they
were enemies.”
New Dictators
When Khrushchev made his
speech (in February last) the
control of the Communist Party
of the Soviet Union (which is
in fact the supreme Government
of the U.S.S.R.) consisted of
the following:
First Secretary: Khrushchev.
Chairman of the Party Control
Commission (which runs the party-
discipline and secret-service): N. T.
Shvernik. (Stalin had made him
head of the All Russian Trade
Union Movement. He had taken
a leading part in the purges. He
succeeded Kalinin at his death in
1946 as President of the U.S.S.R.
while Stalin was in power: a position
analogous to the Presidency of
France.)
Members of the Presidium of the
Central Committee (replacing the old
Polit-Bureau): Bulganin, Kagano-
vich (Stalin's brother-in-law), Khrush-
chev, Molotov and Mikoyan
(all Stalin favorites), . Kiri-
chenko (another young Stalinist and
an ofisider of Khrushchev in the
Ukraine), Malenkov (Stalin’s former
secretary), Pervukhin (still another
of the younger and rising members of
the old guard of Stalinists), Saburov
(the frosty-eyed companion and trainee
of the hated Beria), Suslov (chairman
of the Commission on Foreign
Affairs, a disciple of Molotov), and
Klimenti Voroshilov (the last of the
very old Red Army Command,
Stalin’s boon companion, his com-
mander in the Finnish War, his
blood-brother in the last one and
President of the U.S.S.R. since 1953).
Thus, in 1956, out of the 11
members of the Presidium of
the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union, seven —Bulganin,
Kaganovich, Khrushchev,
Malenkov, Mikoyan, Molotov
and Voroshilov —were Stalin’s
intimate and long-standing
lieutenants in his lifetime. Yet
all (it now seems) hated him
and were horrified at his pro-
ceedings, but over a period of
20 years during which they held
the closest relationships with
him the old man never dis-
covered it in any one of them.
They were in two categories.
Some had risen as “party” men ;
some as “Government” men
during the period of Stalin’s war-
time and post-war dictatorship.
Survivors
The Central Committee of the
Communist party, as it existed
before the purges and the war,
was created at the Seventeenth
Congress of the party in 1934.
It consisted of 71 members and
67 alternative members, total
138, including a number who
had fully and frankly backed
four previous purges between
1924 and 1933.
During the succeeding purge
after their election (1935-38)
Stalin liquidated 55 full mem-
bers, leaving only 16 alive, and
61 “candidate” (alternate) mem-
bers, leaving six alive. Thus,
out of the whole committee and
its alternates only 22 out of 138
survived the purges.
Stalin’s backers among the
bloody minority which sup-
ported him included Molotov,
Khrushchev, Bulganin, Voroshi-
lov, Kaganovich, Mikoyan,
Shvernik and Andreev, all mem-
bers of the Party Presidium
when Khrushchev stood up last
February and expressed his
horror at those same purges,
except Andreev, who was a
Polit-Bureau member (1932-52)
and is a member of the Supreme
Soviet (Parliament) Presidium.
They are the sole survivors—
by grace of Stalin and them-
selves —of the 1934 Central
Committee.
The remaining members have
either died, sometimes curious
“natural” deaths or, like Beria
and Bagirov and some others,
have been liquidated by Khrush-
chev and his choice collection of
hatchet-men, apparently when
the gang-fight developed over
the leadership, or when Beria
and the Georgian section of
the loathsome collection of
murderers and torturers refused
to join the rest in repudiating
the man whose bloody work
they had done, and whose
rewards they had taken over the
years.
All the little band of eight
survivors from the 1934 party
conference—it is reported in the
versions of Khrushchev’s
speech issued by the United
States State Department and
apparently accepted by Moscow
. —rose to join in the “tumultu-
ous, prolonged applause” which
greeted the end of Khrushchev’s
attack on his old leader.
Everyone had survived to
applaud Khrushchev’s version
about how their colleagues had
been done away with en masse
by what he called “mass repres-
sions and brutal acts of viola-
tion of Socialist legality....
fabricated court cases” in which
the accused - majority were
charged with the preparation of
“terroristic acts,” which charges
put them outside the right to
demand that their cases might
be re-examined, “even when
they stated before the court that
their confessions were secured
by force, and when —in a con-
vincing manner —they disproved
the accusations against them.”
We have now the miracle of
the surviving good men of
Moscow (who now rule that
country) full of righteous indig-
nation at the doings of the man
by whose grace they survived,
paying faithful servility to the
real acknowledged head of the
Soviet Union, Khrushchev,
Secretary-General of the Com-
munist party. Strange that he
should be a hater of the cult
of the individual and yet appear
everywhere as the Prime
Minister’s senior, when he holds
no Government office in the
Council of Ministers. The
Prime Minister, of course,
is Nikolai Alexandrovich Bul-
ganin.
Purge Processes
Bulganin professes now to
have been a hater of Stalin’s
policy, though he lets Khrush-
chev do the talking for him. Yet
he was actually another of the
group of trusties which Stalin
formed on the doormat of the
purges of 1935-38 under the
management and direction of
his faithful brother -in - law,
Kaganovich. These two, with
Zhdanov, Khrushchev and Bul-
ganin, formed the “home team.”
Whatever can be said of
Stalin’s failures, it cannot be
said that very many people who
differed from his policies sur-
vived. It is very difficult to
believe that if Bulganin had
shown the slightest hesitation
or reservation about Stalin’s
policy Stalin would have made
him his first palace-favorite in
1946 and endowed him with the
enormous prestige of succeed-
ing him in the Armed Forces
portfolio—Stalin, the General-
issimo, the sole winner of the
war and defeater of Nazi Ger-
many by the common accord
of all the Communist parties of
the world and their fellow-
travellers.
That position in 1946 could
not have gone to anybody whom
Stalin did not trust as a ruthless
follower and implementer of his
policy. And Stalin had had
plenty of opportunity to judge
him before he made him head
of the Red Army and promoted
him from virtual civilian status
to be a marshal, the equal of
great generals like Zhukov. He
had been Mayor of Moscow
during the bulk of the years of
the purge.
What happened after 1934
needs a little more elaboration
to be clear in all its enormity.
When Stalin came to power the
Leninist Polit-Bureau consisted
of seven members —Trotsky,
Zinoviev, Stalin,. Rykov,
Kamenev, Bukharin, Tomsky.
All were wiped out by murder
or execution, save only Stalin —
mostly, according to Khrushchev
and his comrades, on false
evidence. They were replaced
by Molotov, Kaganovich,
Mikoyan, Voroshilov, Andreev
and Shvernik. This new Polit-
Bureau, whose members, with
their pupils, govern Russia
today, then proceeded to destroy
the “Leninist” elements of the
committee of 1934; i.e., the
overwhelming majority.
As they who profess to have
been horrified at Stalin’s
policy showed an indestructible
durability and guile which
enabled them to'conceal their
now-alleged disloyalty to their
bloodthirsty Asiatic leader, so
anybody who happened to be a
rival of any one of their leaders
during Stalin’s regime seemed
to be a frail insurance-risk.
Disappearing Men
For instance, Scherbakov be-
came a rival of Khrushchev,
having been appointed a candi-
date-member of the Polit-Bureau.
He died—heart-attack. Zhdanov
came back from the Cominform
meetings which kicked Tito out
in very real rivalry with Malen-
kov for the succession to the
Kremlin throne. He died, aged
52 —heart-attack. Then Stalin
died without the world having
heard of his illness, and all those
close around him disappeared
off the face of the earth.
Stalin received the Indian
Ambassador, Mr. Menon, on
February 17, 1953. On the same
day “Izvestia” announced “with
deepest sorrow” the death of
Major-General Kosynin, who
was commander of the Kremlin
Guard. With remarkably little
warning, Stalin died on March 5.
The sequel is worth record-
ing. The Minister for Health,
Tretyakov, who supervised
Stalin’s treatment and issued the
bulletins during his illness, has
not been heard of since. One
of the doctors who attended him
and signed the last bulletins
about his condition shuffled off
this mortal coil —“heart-failure.”
Stalin’s son, Vasily, Commander
of the Air Force of Moscow
military district, has apparently
vaporised.
Beria, Stalin’s former Security
Minister, who could be expected
to know if there was anything
in the way of monkey-business,
was attacked by Khrushchev and
Malenkov in typical Moscow
style, and was shot after having
suffered the same kinds of
charges as the present rulers say
that Stalin faked against their
late-lamented comrades of the
pre-war purges. He was too big
and powerful to “disappear”
quietly.
Lieutenant-General Poskre-
byshev, chief of Stalin’s personal
secretariat, was never seen again
after his master’s death. Lieu-
tenant-General Siridonov (chief
of all the Kremlin troops),
Lieutenant - General Sinilov
(Commandant of Moscow city
troops) and Colonel-General
Artemev (G.0.C., Moscow dis-
trict) - all seem to have been
wiped out. Bagirov, head of the
party in Georgia, was discovered
with several others to be the
normal type of Russianised
traitor and quickly dispatched
—while Khrushchev and Bul-
ganin were banqueting in
England.
The Institute for the Study
of the U.S.S.R. remarked
recently, when discussing some
of these removals and vanish-
ings:—
All these mysterious events are not
without a logic of their own and
indicate that the present collective
leadership was not inactive when its
turn to be purged had apparently
come.
If this seems a paradox it
should be remembered that all
of them were in process of
demotion when Stalin became
ill.
Molotov’s power as Foreign
Minister had been ended in
1949. Bulganin had been
replaced in the Army Ministry.
Kaganovich and Mikoyan had
been removed from their offices ;
and Beria was no longer head
of the M.V.D. and M-G.B. They
remained members of the Polit-
Bureau (which, after 1949,
rarely met> and became merely
Stalin’s deputies. He after 1949
was “Minister for Everything.”
Perhaps it was when that
hater of “individualism,”
Khrushchev, saw some writing
on the wall that breaking-point
was reached. He has been the
ruler of Russia since Stalin’s
death, pushing forward
Malenkov and Bulganin as
puppets, using Stalin’s dis-
gruntled Old Guard as his
instruments while he consoli-
dated.
The “collective” leadership is
merely a passing phase, a transi-
tion device till the power of the
Government is again completely
and firmly subordinated to the
Communist party and Khrush-
chev, as before the war.
(Another article, dealing with
the impact of events in Russia
on the Communist-party line,
will appear next week.)
THE OLD GARDEN
This garden, all dry sticks and
boughs,
Moves fretfully beneath the
stress
Of southern weather streaming
through
The tall gums and the pale
bamboo
In sea-cold loneliness.
This plot of earth pegs out a
claim
Against the high tide of the
weather —
The sort of claim a man will
make >
For his, or for his cold pride’s
sake,
To hold all things together.
For even in this falling state
When things have run to seed or
died,
A shaking garden testifies
To these disturbed and bitter
skies
Of the lone force of pride.
The loquat leaves that clatter in
The wind, the vines and spiky
palm,
Are bastions contrived against
The fury of the elements
To keep the soul from harm.
VIC.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.


0$
<>'■ ■
n
X 7
S 3 i
OV£^S
i m
C 3
'%U&4
o
C 3
r/2*
V \K\ /t/ v \\
(<>UrJ4sssl Ss2
/M
\ lillffr•> =>=>->?<>»-a
fA C-. 7=J3?OH_sTrTM r i n V fin,
f S\ c\ x 9 _
lO
j sacAm
9r*
440*
WH
(D
IX-£ES
©
Wf
1
00,. <vS
O v O
1 Buckingham
Palace
2 Horse Guards
3 Admiralty
4 Duke of York
Statue
5 Nelson's Column
6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
In Old Bond Street, at the yery heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For, after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure—when only the best will do ?
J
Ns
TOBACCONISTS
•MSO* * (UOSBC VT»
nMen uteM-efe
BEmONatu/, HEDGES
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NASSER OF EGYPT
AN outline (from “U.S. News
and World Report”) of the
rapid rise of 38-year-old Gamal
Abdel Nasser from the rank of
a junior officer to the Presidency
of Egypt:
“Three years ago Nasser was
all but unknown. Today he is
a world figure praised by
millions of Arabs, feared by
some as a dictator bent on war ;
suspected and distrusted by the
West, and openly courted by
Soviet Russia as a partner who
can open doors for Communism.
“Deliberately through those
years, Nasser equipped himself
with the trappings of dictator-
ship. He masterminded the
revolution that ousted King
Farouk and set up a Military
Government to operate through
a puppet ruler, Major-General
Mohammed Neguib. Then he
arrested Neguib, took-over the
job himself, and arranged his
own election on a single-name
ballot. Later this year he will
see to the election of a one-party
legislature, provided for in a
special Constitution that he
designed.
“Along the route of his rise
from a behind - the - scenes
operator to dictator, Nasser
forced the British out of Suez —
once the world’s biggest military
base. He has made an ‘open-
end’ deal with Moscow to equip
his Army and Air Force with
all the Communist arms they can
use. And he has set out through
diplomacy, infiltration and
intrigue to become the No. 1
man of a vast area stretching
from Morocco to Iran and
eventually southward to the
Cape of Good Hope.
“Egypt’s new President niakes
no secret of his ambition to
build an empire in the Middle
East and Africa. It is spelled-
out explicitly in his book,
Egypt’s Liberation, which some
people refer to as ‘Nasser’s Mein
Kampf*
“Nasser, a quiet, soft-spoken
man in personal conversation,
uses the oratorical flourishes of
a ‘strong man’ when he speaks
to Egypt’s millions. Like other
dictators before him, he seems
intent on arousing a backward
and largely illiterate nation to
an enthusiasm for world-leader-
ship. His speeches bristle with
such expressions as these:
“ ‘The Revolution must con-
tinue ! ’
“ Oil is for fhe Arabs! ’
“‘Unity! Work! Discipline!’
“ ‘We must strengthen our-
selves to liberate all Arabs!’
“As he speaks, his followers
set up a rhythmic chant: ‘Nas-
ser! Nas-ser! Nas-ser! Nas-ser!’
“But Nasser’s bid for power in
the Middle East isn’t limited to
speeches. Everywhere you look
in this part of the world you
find his agents busy working
against the West and to bring all
Arabs under his leadership.
“Syria, Saudi Arabia and
Yemen have been signed-up in
military alliances that are
intended to give Nasser control
of . their armies. Jordan is under
pressure to expel the British and
join Nasser’s military bloc.
Egyptian schoolteachers control
the school-systems in Libya and
Somalia and are conspicuous in
other countries, such as Saudi
Arabia and Irak.
“Nasser’s radio-station fills the
air of the Arab world with
broadcasts in a dozen languages
calling for revolts in Aden,
Kenya, Irak, Morocco. The
Algerian uprising against the
French is directed from a clande-
stine headquarters in Cairo.
Tunisian rebels operate in safety
in this city.
“Mixed-in with all this
intrigue and manipulation are
Nasser’s own dealings with the
top Communists of Soviet
Russia and the satellites.
Typically, he accuses the U.S.
and its allies of forcing him into
his ties with Moscow.
“ ‘When America refused to
buy my cotton or to sell me
arms,’ he said recently, ‘I had
to look elsewhere for markets
and arms.’
“The Russians were standing
by, eager to provide both. As
a result, Nasser’s Egypt is
rapidly being converted into
what one Western diplomat
describes as a ‘semi-satellite’ of
Moscow. The Egyptian Army
is equipped with Soviet fighter-
planes, jet-bombers, tanks and
other Red arms. Russia and the
satellites are offering to build
such things as a sugar-refinery,
a paper-mill, dry-docks, auto-
mobile-plants, and factories to
produce tractors and farm-
machinery.
“In Cairo you cannot pick up
a newspaper without reading
about one Communist mission
—usually more —arriving or
leaving.
“Why this burst of fellow-
ship between Nasser and the
Communists? Friends say you
have to know Nasser to
understand. In the privacy of
his office Nasser talks almost
incessantly of Western plots
against him and his country —
so much so that one visitor came
away describing him as a man
with a ‘plot psychosis.’ He says
the U.S. and Britain are trying
to cut him off from his Arab
neighbors. He says the West is
plotting to keep Israel stronger
than Egypt. He seems to be
convinced that the British —and
perhaps others —are plotting to
dispose of him outright.
“At the same time, he says he
sees nothing dangerous in his
ardent flirtation with Moscow.
He appears convinced that the
Communists have changed their
ways. He echoes their talk of
neutrality and peaceful coexist-
ence, and he welcomes Com-
munist visitors with a cordiality
matched only by that of India’s
Premier Nehru.
“The Egyptian President is a
man of impulsive action. For
example, supporters say he
dresses in conservative, com-
fortable business-suits.
“At the office, Nasser’s life is
entirely different. He follows a
gruelling routine. Friends say
he considers six hours a good
night’s sleep. It is not unusual
for him to spend 20 consecutive
hours at his desk. Early in the
revolution he was obliged to
spend five or six hours a day
in meetings with other members
of the Revolutionary Command
Council. But now he consults
only a few close friends —and
makes all big decisions himself.
“With all his powers, Nasser
is finding that building Egypt
recognised Communist China
mostly because he was angered
at news that a few Western
planes were going to be sent to
Israel. He called the Cabinet
together at midnight and
announced his deal with Red
China —at the very time the U.S'.
Congress was debating a measure
authorising American long-term
aid to Egypt. Such impetuous
acts prompted one Western
official to observe:
“ ‘Appearance is more im-
portant to Nasser than reality.
He still thinks like a junior
officer. ’
“It was as a junior officer in
1942 that he started his rise to
eventual power in Egypt.
Cautiously, he began recruiting
patriotic and promising young
Army officers for membership in
a secret society that became the
Free Officers Corps—a group of
400 junior officers that ultimately
,deposed King Farouk and
established a military dictator-
ship in Egypt.
“ ‘Collective leadership’
brought the revolutionaries to
power in 1952. After that, Nasser
moved steadily to take all control
into his own hands. Four
members of the original Revolu-
tionary Command Council were
purged. The Free Officers Corps
was allowed to wither away.
Nasser put his own friends in
key-spots in the Cabinet and
Army—and eventually emerged
as boss. No one in Cairo ques-
tions his present hold on that
role.
“Away from the office, Nasser
lives quietly with his wife and
five children —three boys and
two girls in a villa that is
surrounded by a high wall and
constantly guarded by sentries.
At 38, he is a big, handsome
man—6ft. tall and weighing
2001 b. He has been putting on
weight lately. He no longer
wears a military uniform, but
into a modern nation is a far
more complex job than running
a military revolt. The Egyptians
rank among the poorest people
in the world. The scant resources
of the land can barely sustain
even the most wretched liveli-
hood. The country is beset with
disease. Seventy-five per cent, of
its people can neither read nor
write.
“The revolution that Nasser
promised would transform this
backward and impoverished
country into a showplace of
power and progress is bogging-
down in the mud of the Nile,
after a spectacular beginning.
Around Cairo you can see some
evidence of development plans—
a road-network is under way,
great blocks of low-cost housing-
units have appeared. But the
wealth confiscated by the revolu-
tionaries is exhausted, and
Egypt’s funds are running low.
“The masses of people are as
miserable as ever. Beggars—
missing for a time —once again
prowl the streets of Cairo.
Foreign investors haven’t come
in with anything like the lavish-
spending eagerness Nasser
hoped for. The surface of
Egypt’s complex problem has
barely been scratched.
“The one thing that might
conceivably get Egypt’s
depressed economy off dead
centre —construction of the
Aswan High Dam on the Nile
River —is being held up. Even
should the dam be started
tomorrow, however, it wouldn’t
mean a quick cure for all of
Nasser’s problems. It is a 10-
year project, intended to add
two-million acres of irrigated
land to Egypt. But that increase
in acreage after a decade will be
barely enough to support the
increase in population that is
expected in the next 10 years.
“With troubles mounting at
home, Nasser is turning more
NASSER—SELF-PORTRAIT
Nasser’s view of his and Egypt’s part in the Middle East,
as set out in his book, “Egypt’s Liberation, the Philosophy of
the Revolution.”
“It is not without signifi-
cance that our country is
situated west of Asia, in con-
tiguity with the Arab States
with whose existence our own
is interwoven. It is not with-
out significance, too, that our
country lies in north-east
Africa, overlooking the Dark
Continent, wherein rages a
most tumultuous struggle
between white colonisers and
black inhabitants for control
of its unlimited resources,
Nor is it without significance
that, when the Mongols swept
away the ancient capitals of
Islam, Islamic civilisation and
the Islamic heritage fell back
on Egypt and took shelter
there. Egypt protected them
and saved them, while check-
ing the onslaught of the
Mongols at ’Ain Jalut. All
these are fundamental realities
with deep roots in our lives
which we cannot—even if we
try—escape or forget.
“I do not know why 1
recall, whenever I reach this
point in my recollections as
I meditate alone in my room,
a famous tale by a great
Italian poet, Luigi Pirandello
—'Six Characters in Search of
an Author.’ The pages of
history are full of heroes who
created for themselves roles
of glorious valor which they
played at decisive moments,
Likewise the pages of history
are dso full of hew[c and
wles Mch
perform
>° una neroes to perform
diem. For some reason it
seems to me that within the
Arab circle, there is a role,
wandering aimlessly in search
°f a kero. And l do not know
why it seems to me that this
role, exhausted by its wander-
Figs, has at last settled down,
tired and weary, near the
borders of our country and
A beckoning to us to move,
(° take up its lines, to put on
its costume, since no one else
is qualified to play it.
“Here, let me hasten to say
that this role is not one of
leadership. It is rather a role
of interaction with, and
responsibility to, all the
abovementioned factors. It
is a role such as to spark this
tremendous power latent in
the area surrounding us; a
role tantamount to an experi-
ment, with the aim of creating
a great strength which will
then undertake a positive part
in the building of the future
of mankind.”


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WAkKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.184.12
You're lucky
to be married
So you think it would be won-
derful to be free, to come home
just when you like, eat when
you please and no nagging ?
“Bunk,” says famed writer Paul
Gallico.
In August Reader’s Digest he
tells from experience the bitter
disadvantages of being “free”
after years of wedlock.
“It pays to increase your word
power” another August fea-
ture —tells how adding words to
your vocabulary increases your
self confidence, prestige —even
your earning poweT.
You’ll find no less than thirty
stimulating articles of lasting
interest in this month’s issue of
Reader’s Digest wonderful
reading value at only 2/- at all
newsagents and bookstalls.
NOTHING EQUALS
I WARMRAY'S AMAZING EFFICIENCY I
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing tire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
warmra y
Owing to lael saving the "Warmray" ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
:i^ri
11111118
wtm
SPffl
1
H
i 1
BPI
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Model Ho. 3 Super
De luxe
it Large Capacity Over
8,000 cu. ft.
it Special large firebox for
long burning without
attention.
it Extra large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
-ar l
WARM RAY
HEATING
TUBES
mm
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is the patented Heating
Tubes (illustrated above), which are built into the firebox.
The air in the room passes through these tubes continu-
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every part of
the room.
BURN WOOD FOR GREATEST EFFICIENCY
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold, by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Cballis House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2217. \
If unobtainable locally phone, write or call for
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents.
New York “Herald Tribune"
GOOD-HUMOR MAN
and more to the role of a ‘man
of destiny’ in the affairs of the
world. As one Western diplomat
puts it:
“ ‘I guess we are witnessing
the classical pattern of dictator-
ship—foreign adventures to
divert people’s attention from
domestic problems. If you can’t
give them bread, give them
circuses.’
“A new personality to fit that
classical pattern of dictatorship
has changed Nasser in recent
months. In the past he appeared
shy and ill at ease in public.
Now he exudes self-confidence.
His easy, good-natured smile is
seen less frequently. At times
he seems aloof. He has injected
an element of rabble-rousihg
into his speeches.
“ ‘Nasser,’ said a political
observer who has lived in Cairo
for years, fis appealing to the
mob now. He is convinced that
the mob truly reflects public
opinion. And remember that his
popularity is greatest with the
most fanatic extremists in the
Arab world.’
“You don’t hear much
criticism of Nasser among the
Egyptians themselves, but one
young official in the Government
gives this surprisingly blunt sum-
up of the soldier who now rules
as President:
“ ‘When Nasser took power
he was thinking only of ruling
Egypt. But he has moved on.
The Communist arms-deal sud-
denly made him a great figure
in the Arab world. Now he
wants to be the ultimate
redeemer of the Arab race.
“ ‘lf that isn’t Nasser’s
ambition, then everything he is
doing in the world now can be
explained only as insanity.’”
Cyprus Critics
With Egypt’s Nasser becom-
ing more and more truculent,
and Israel more and more
jittery as Communist arms go to
Egypt, it would be comforting
to think that a solution was in
sight for Britain’s problems in
Cyprus. Press-comment indi-
cates, however, that the situa-
tion is, if anything, more snarled
than ever, with, as London
“Spectator” notes, settlement be-
coming a “matter of inter-
national urgency before the
passions aroused develop into
permanent hatred.”
London “Time and Tide,”
possibly the most caustic critic
of the U.K. Government’s
Middle East policy, comments
that “the handling of the Cyprus
issue has taken on the total
behavior-pattern, neurotic and
near-hysterical, of an abject
failure in Imperial relations”:
“The closest analogy is
Palestine, 1945-48 ; and, as we
[“Time and Tide”] have pointed
out more than once, all the mis-
takes of that miserable episode
are being repeated down to the
smallest, most pitiful details.
“Major Henry Legge-Bourke,
M.P., was incensed with the
Leader of the Opposition when
he remarked that the blame for
Cyprus lies entirely with the
Government. Mr. Gaitskell is
often silly and inaccurate ; on
this he was neither. What he
said was the plain, unpalatable
truth.
“Three years ago all the diffi-
culties, briefs and horrors of
the Cyprus crisis could have
been prevented if resolute and
realistic action had been taken
then. The Government were
urged to take it, but would not.
They have created the present
mes£s for themselves —and for
everyone else involved, Greek
or Turkish. It is a mess from
which there is no obvious way
out, except through deeper pain,
deeper humiliation, more loss
of life and of honor.
“All this has come about, not
through malice but through
shiftlessness. If it is necessary
to find a last ditch in which to
make a stand it is prudent to
choose the right ditch. Cyprus
is not and never has been a
good last ditch. The one where
the stand should have been
made is now under totally new
management, and the gloatings
of Colonel Nasser and Com-
pany are not agreeable.”
London “Spectator,” another
severe critic, notes that “within
a space of three months the
[U.K.] Government has pro-
duced three different versions of
British policy in Cyprus”:
“First, that we [Britain] might
grant self-determination at some
future date: second, that we
could not grant self-determina-
tion at all because our interests
in the Middle East demanded
‘unfettered use’ of the base
there ; third, that we should like
to grant self-determination, but
that the Turks would not agree
to it.
“The Cyprus problem is now
so complex that it seems
unlikely that any British Govern-
ment will be able on its own to
solve it. The only way out would
seem to be through arbitration of
some kind, and, though Sir
Anthony Eden rejected Mr.
Gaitskell’s proposal that the
whole issue should be laid before
Nato, it is clear that sooner or
later America, which has been
watching the southern end of the
alliance dissolve before its eyes,
will have to be brought into any
discussion of the question.”
An American view (“New
York Times”) of the “sad,
baffling and dangerous affair”
holds that “the futility of throw-
ing reproaches around must be
obvious”:
“The Greek Cypriots, who
number four-fifths of the popula-
tion, are determined on enosis, or
union, with Greece. The Turks
are equally determined to pre-
vent this, or even a compromise
granting a measure of autonomy
today and self-determination at
a future date. The British are
adamant about keeping their
military base on Cyprus, for they
see it as a vital link defending
their oil-supplies from the
Persian Gulf.
“The stark fact to be faced
now is that the Turks will not
accept a solution favorable to
the Greek Cypriots or the
Greeks, and no one is willing or
able to force Turkey to accept
even a compromise solution.
“It would be highly dangerous
to underestimate Turkish
determination or to believe that
Ankara is bluffing. Everyone in
close touch with the Turks —and
that includes Americans —is con-
vinced that Turkey would react
very strongly if the British gave
in to the Cypriots and Greeks
and tried to reach an agreement
without Turkish consent. There
seems to be little doubt that
the Turks would take military
measures.”
To which London “Economist”
adds that three things are
essential as a “first step towards
pacification”:
“First, the Cypriots must be
made to believe that the intro-
duction of self-government is not
an attempt to fob them off with
a second-best, but an essential
preliminary to enosis —assuming
that, once they have the running
of their affairs in their own
hands, they will still want to be
governed from Athens. Only a
definite date for the exercise of
their choice can do this.
“Secondly, if there is to be any
forward move, the deportation
of Archbishop Makarios will
have to be undone ; he will have
to be brought back, at least to
London. If he is really the only
representative whom the Greek
Cypriots will accept—and there
is no evidence to confute this —
to refuse to treat with him,
simply because he is a political
prelate and none too scrupulous
about the use of violent men to
gain his ends, is unwise; moral
scruples, however well-founded,
defeat themselves when they lead
to the use of British soldiers
indefinitely to keep an alien
people under British rule.
“Finally, the campaign against
the terrorists, which has recently
enjoyed some encouraging
successes, has to be carried on,
and with undiminished vigor.
But it must be pursued without
recourse to such expedients: as
collective punishments. These
are wrong; whether technically
legal or not, they are repugnant
to all principles of law; and
their practical value is dubious,
at best. Has any information
been extracted from any Cypriot
town or village through this kind
of pressure?”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Murray-Darling
With floods again spreading over our
western plains, I wonder why there has
been no agitation to make the Darling
what it could be—the greatest national
asset in inland Australia.
Once, the Darling was navigable from
Bourke to the sea —nearly 1000 miles of
waterway. Today it is a menace. It has
become so silted that the waters of its
many tributaries cannot get away when
in spate, and,so they spread destruction
over millions of acres of western N. S.
Wales. All the towns on the western
slopes, as well as those on the plains, from
southern Queensland to the Victorian
border, have practically no protection at
all against these recurring floods, which
are worse every time.
It would be a big job to dredge and
clear the Darling and to dredge well into
the mouths of the tributaries, especially
the mischievous Lachlan, Bogan and
Macquarie. It would probably cost many
millions, but it could be dpne, and it
would pay-off handsomely.
A series of weirs on the main river, with
locks for shipping, would make possible
the biggest irrigation area in the world
—greater than the Nile, the Ohio or even
the Yellow River project in China. The
level country through which most of the
Darling and its tributaries flow gives them
an immense advantage over the great
river-systems of other countries. And,
after all, the Murray-Darling is about the
sixth-biggest river-system in the world —
when it’s flowing!
We know already that the land around
Bourke can grow our best citrus-fruits
and tobacco, and the irrigation areas
along the Murrumbidgee can produce a
wonderful array of food. Imagine an
irrigated area, 600 miles long and
several miles wide, from the northern to
the southern border of N. S. Wales.
Think of the huge population that could
live there, to say nothing of the tremen-
dous benefits to the existing settlements
in all western N. S. Wales. L. G. C.
(N.S.W.).
New Northern State
Peter A. Wright’s case for a new State
for North Queensland (B. 18/7/’56) is
based on the argument that North
Queensland’s production of £BO million
would leave a credit-balance of
£5l 15s. 9d per head. That is a delightful
oversimplification of a problem worthy
of the Mad Hatter’s tea-party.
The new State would also be com-
mitted to the considerable capital
expenditure involved in the erection of
" You're expelled!”
the complete machinery of government,
including new Houses of Parliament,
administrative buildings and the mainten-
ance of railways and health- and
hospital-services, amounting to some £lB
million, or an additional expenditure per
head of £76 9s. lid.
If North Queensland had been a
separate State it would never have been
able to finance the building of the
Burdekin dam, the Burdekin high-level
bridge, the Tully Falls hydroelectric
works, the Mareeba-Dimbulah irrigation
works apd other developmental projects,
the major cost of which is borne by the
southern region.
The new State would also have to find
another £loi million for the construction
of roads, reconditioning of railway-track,
complete “dieselisation” of the Towns-
ville-Mount Isa railway-section and
purchase of new rolling-stock, conse-
quent upon the development of Mount
Isa and the Mary Kathleen uranium-
field.
It is nonsense to assert that, as a
separate State, North Queensland would
be entitled to a seat on the Loan Council
and its own share of Federal tax-
reimbursements and other grants. Being
a lending authority, the Loan Council is
equally concerned with the repayment
of loans as it is in handing out the
amount of the loan. As a borrower, a
Government is in much the same position
as an individual; it must have security
to offer for any loan required by it, and
it must make and complete reasonable
arrangements for the repayment of the
loan.
Representation on the Loan Council
would not secure to a new northern
State any advantages, unless that State’s
foundation and future prospects were
financially sound.
Mr. Wright is wrong in the assertion
that the “Brisbane” Government channels
“the just dues of the people of the North
to projects and areas which have nothing
to do with the North.” If debenture
loans are excluded, expenditure from all
State funds on capital works and develop-
ment in North Queensland in 1954-55
was not only more than four times
greater on a per capita basis than the
amount spent in the metropolitan area
in the same period ; it was also, on actual
expenditure, almost £4 million more. The
northern division of the State, with 15
per cent, of the population, received 31.5
per cent, of the total expenditure, or £47
per head of population, compared with
36.8 per cent, of the total expenditure,
or £23.3 per head, for the southern divi-
sion (excluding the capital) with 35 per
cent, of the population.
Every large-scale project is being
worked on in North Queensland, which
is receiving the lion’s share of develop-
mental works.
In such circumstances it is nonsense
to talk of North Queensland being
denied its “just dues”; and conclusive
proof that this political canard is not
taken seriously by the people of the
North was furnished by their verdict at
the recent State elections. — Clem Lack
(Q.).
No Arsenic
I was surprised to read Roy Theodore’s
statement that arsenic is added to our
beer (B. 20/6/’56). As a retired brewer,
1 know that is absolutely incorrect.
The Australian Pure Food Acts forbid
the use of arsenic in beer, and if the
least trace of it were found by the Pure
Food Departments very severe penalties
would be imposed on the manufacturer
Mr. Theodore may be confused by the
occurrence of a number of deaths in
“I WOULD pick on a Friday !”
England about 50 years ago. These
deaths were traced to the use of glucose
in beer which had been manufactured
from maize-starch by the use of crude
sulphuric-acid, which contained large
amounts of arsenic as an impurity.-r-
A. Ludge (Vic.).
Automation
Automation is the auto - servo
mechanisms linking individual and multi-
operational machines on a particular
component, simple or complex.
It is the robot material-handler. It
exchanges power—electric, pneumatic
and hydraulic—for human muscle. The
senses are replaced by the radio-visor,
the frequency-impulse circuit and the
radar-beam. The primary cost can be a
shocker.
The linkage between two fully-
controlled production-machines and
processing-machines can cost up to five
times the prime cost of each of the
operating units.
Automation pays for its keep by the
basic fact that from start to stop each
minute of time is at maximum production.
The yardstick for automation, therefore,
is man-minutes against machine-minutes.
We must cease to calculate in terms of
man-hours and a 40-hour week.
The average skilled operator, with non-
productive and general overheads added,
costs fourpence a minute. A check in a
factory with 500 operatives showed that
slow starting after breaks was costing
£125 per day, rolling cigarettes £5O,
smoke-ohs £lB6, lavatory and ablutions
£lB3 —a total working-year man-minute
wastage of £128,380.
Since the fully “automatised” plant
starts on a fixed-time impulse, does not
yawn, scratch its back, roll cigarettes,
visit lavatories, eat or wash, each minute
is at optimum operation.
The overall depreciation is less than
with manually-operated plants, since the
robot controllers will not permit the
units to reach a condition necessitating
costly replacement.
We are not behind in automatic
machines in this country. High costs
come from the human factor, material
transport, inter-operational handling,
checking, assembly and storage.
Get down to man-minutes and check
your losses against the machine-minutes.
This sum is the basic factor in influencing
automation. It’s usually a shocker, too,
but acts as a comforting shock-absorber
when the bill for full automation is
presented.
The 80 per cent, reduction in the labor-
bill can bring selling-prices down to world
parity. .You don’t sack the surplus; you
go after the markets and quadruplicate
the plant and output.
Automation is what Australia needs
—competition where labor-costs don’t
really matter in a completely mechanised
field. It will create unlimited employ-
ment in the initial conversion and the
subsequent development of new ideas and
processes under interest-absorbing and
fatigueless conditions. — Old Opencut
(S.A.).
Tea and Politics
One of the reasons why (Jeylon may
have been less belligerent than expected
at the Prime Ministers’ conference in
London could have been that its staple
export, tea, is facing a more harshly
competitive world.
About one-third of the world’s tea-
exports come from Ceylon, and before the
last war about two-thirds of Ceylon’s
tea-exports went to the United Kingdom.
British imports of tea from Ceylon are
now down to between 30 and 38 per cent.,
although Britain is still the largest single
customer for Ceylon tea.- Until recently
the only real competitors on world-
markets were India, Pakistan and Indo-
nesia, but the picture is being drastically
altered, mostly through developments in
British colonies in Africa.
Nyasaland is exporting more than 17-
million lb., Kenya 12-million, Uganda
4.9-million, and Tanganyika 3.5-million.
Southern Rhodesian output is increasing,
and more than a year ago the African
colonial exports had reached nearly 38-
million lb. Tea is also grown in Malaya
and Mauritius, in many parts of South
America, and on an expanding scale in
the Soviet Union.
While Australian tea-purchases were
subject to Government control the great
bulk of our buying was done in Ceylon.
Since abandonment of control and sub-
sidy, however, there has been substantial
buying in India, China and Indonesia;
latest figures show that 16 per cent, of
Australian requirements now come from
Indonesia. This altering pattern of trade
must have impressed Ceylon. Perhaps its
new Prime Minister and Government
recognised as a result that no nation
can stand alone in the world today, and
that it is a good thing to have powerful
friends. — Stromlo (A.C.T.).
Steam or Diesel
“Traveller” (B. 27/6/’56) has evidently
not had a ride on a steam-locomotive in
a good state of repair.
The power is not applied in sharp
alternating thrusts, because, by medium
of the slide- or piston-valve mechanism,
the alternating thrust is made
rhythmically.
If a locomotive lurches at high speed
on a good track it is an indication that
the valves are set with too much “lead.”
There is no nicer feeling for a
locomotiVe-driver than the powerful
rhythm of a fast-running loco, or the clear
and regular “beat” when hauling a heavy
load on a steep grade.
The permanent-way headache could be
overcome in many ways. One would be
bigger and more mobile fettling-gangs and
raising the status of the ganger to that of
fettling-gang foreman, with a correspond-
ing increase in wages.
How many men in the tough-jobs
category could set up a permanent-way
curve or lay out a cross-over?. —255 (QT


c*
O'*
0®
0'
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
m
m
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
M
m
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
and stops tooth decoy BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save 1/8
VGSA
HOLDEN UTILITY TOPS AUSTRALIAN SALES BECAUSE
Holden gives you
the best combination of
power, economy, value
Owners from all over Australia have
reported that Holden Utility gives you the
ideal combination of 6 cylinder power with
30 miles to the gallon economy and excep-
tional dependability. Proof of Holden’s
better value is the fact that during 1955
official Holden Utility registrations were
four times those of the next most popular
model.
How well Holden fulfils all claims made
for it is shown by this letter from Mr. C. W.
Knott of Haber field, N.S.W. He writes:
“I purchased a Holden Utility ... in
February 1952 . . . My occupation is a
Master Butcher. In the four years I have
had this vehicle ADN767, it has been used
for carting meat, delivering orders, and
buying at country centres.
“The first two years it was used on
country roads from Wagga, to such
adjacent towns as Albury, Junee, Tumut,
Leeton, Griffith . . . this vehicle has done
work on all types of roads, country and
city. At present I have 39,000 miles on my
speedo, and have never had the head off,
not even to adjust tappets, the only replace-
ment being one set of spark plugs. I
consider this a mighty effort, and thought
it my duty to pass on such information.”
There’s no doubt that you get the best
combination of power, economy, depend-
ability and value in Holden Utilities. Let
your Holden dealer prove it on an actual
demonstration. In view of the increasing
demand for Holden , may we suggest that
you see him as soon as possible.
HOLDEN*
Australia's Own Utility
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S OWN PANEL VAN
LIST PRICE £865 PLUS TAX
Convenient hire purchase arrangements available through GMAC—General Motors own hire
purchase company. ‘Air Chief is the only Car Radio approved by GMH engineers for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE » PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
Fiji
“Q. Ree” (B. 11/7/’56) compares Fijian
morals of today with yesterday, but omits
to mention that in King Thakombau’s
day women were not forbidden to marry
before the age of 18, nor was 16 the legal
age of consent. When the usage of
temperate climes is applied to the tropics
in matters of sex, laxity becomes
inevitable.
Such restrictions would be less harmful
in their effects if they applied equally to
Indians as well as Fijians. In Fiji, Indian
girls marry at puberty, rush parenthood
to have four children as quickly as
possible and so escape the “residential
tax,” and subsist frequently on paupers’
pensions (“We can’t let them starve!”)
which cost the colony annually upwards
of £60,000.
Is it any wonder that the Indian birth-
rate is now 37 per thousand, and that
the Indian population (160,000) has out-
stripped the Fijian (140,000) in a few
decades? This is racial discrimination.
The dice are loaded against the Fijians,
and if it were not for the incidence of
tiko vaka tevoro (illicit unions) the
population-trend would be even more
serious.— Kumi vaka Me (N.S.W.).
Rail Transport in War
Under the title “Rail Transport and
the Winning of Wars,” the Association
of American Railroads has published a
survey of the work for which railways are
called upon in war-time. The author of
the brochure, General James A. Van
Fleet, commanded the Eighth U.S.A.
Korean Army from April, 1951, to
February, 1953, and was convinced by
stern experience that only railways can
move the men and supplies needed to
wage a modern war. Other means of
transport are ancillary, however
important they may be in emergencies.
A railway provides high carrying-
capacity and can handle an unlimited
range of freight-traffic without using the
manpower required for transport by road
or air. General Van Fleet also stresses
the view—with which many disagree—
that a railway cannot be put permanently
out of service by bombardment from the
air (as so far experienced), or other
disabling damage. Despite concentrated
efforts, American air-power failed to
interrupt the flow of supplies to the Com-
munist front-lines in Korea, because rail-
way demolitions were either repaired
quickly or by-passed.
He illustrates the ease with which
damaged railway-lines can be restored,
giving examples from recent war-histories
and comments on the inability of the
Luftwaffe “to knock out or even seriously
choke the British rail-system” during
1939-45. He doubts whether enemy
action can equal some of the ravages
caused to railway property by floods,
lancWides, hurricanes, or earthquakes.
Trained railwaymen are accustomed to
“My namesMaudie — what's yours?”
make good such upsets to their facilities,
but other types of transport rely upon
public agencies to do the necessary
repairs.
Another factor favoring the railways is
their efficient use of manpower and
materials. It is calculated that 20 times
as many men would be required to move
100,000 tons of freight across the U.S.A.
by road as by rail, and that the road-
hauliers would use four times the
quantity of , diesel-fuel which the railways
would burn.
The aeroplane is still more extravagant,
using nearly 30 times as much fuel as a
diesel-locomotive to move a given amount
of payload and making heavy demands
on manpower.
The inevitable conclusion is that the
railways are a great basic military
asset and should be kept vigorous and
progressive. Any neglect to maintain
them efficiently would be a grave peril to
national security. Transporticus
(Singapore).
Coal and Survival
I didn’t claim that the coal-industry
is all that it ought to be (B. 20/6/’56); I
said that, because it is a mainstay of our
economy and of vital importance in war,
it should be reorganised, improved and
expanded, not beaten to death for
reasons of expediency and false economy.
Conversion of the gas-industry to oil
may appear to be a clever and progressive
move, but how can we continue to
arrange the import-credits to pay for this
increasing one-way trade in foreign oil?
Australia’s economy is developing some
nasty body-squeaks, and the position
demands greater and better use of our
national assets, not their abandonment.
Our overseas credit-reserves are vanish-
ing, and it is folly to push a vital industry
into the gutter instead of making
intelligent efforts to improve it.
From the point of view of defence the
continuing failure to make greater use of
our extensive coal-deposits is worse than
folly. In World War II our oil-supplies
were never seriously threatened, but we
are unlikely to be so fortunate in a future
war. In 10-15 years the set-up in the
Pacific will be vastly different from that of
World War 11.
The armed might of possible future
enemies whose territories border on the
Pacific will be greatly superior to that of
Japan in 1942. Armadas of heavy, far-
ranging jet-bombers and nuclear-powered
submarines will make slow-moving,
vulnerable oil-tankers a poor insurance-
risk. In such circumstances no one could
expect tankers to deliver enough oil to
keep our economy moving at t-op speed.
Socialisation of the coal-industry will
not produce the desired results; our
socialised transport is proof of that. Large
packets of private capital are needed for
the job, and to entice that capital into the
industry in sufficient quantities a guaran-
teed and expanding market for coal
(which large-scale oil-distillation from
coal would provide) is necessary.—
Jeremiad (N.S.W.).
Meat
I see that the N. S. Wales meat-trade
plans to spend £50,000 on an advertising
campaign, but I don’t think extensive
advertising will make us any more meat-
conscious than we are at the moment.
A big reduction in price would.
Today’s housewife, with a careful eye
on her frugal budget, knows that a pound
of meat that costs 3s. 4d. at the butcher’s
could cdst 6s. Bd. by the time it is placed
on the table. Refrigeration, the price of
fuel, plus wastage which occurs in shrink-
age, all add to the original cost. This is
where the so-called “patent foods” have it
all over meat.
Despite all the blither to the contrary,
in these lean times the price is the most
important selling-point with most things ;
meat included. — Meat-eater (N.S.W.).


There is a far greater
risk of fly strike when
lambs have been
marked and tailed
with a knife than if
Elastrator Rubber
Rings have been used.
The blood from a
knife wound is an
irresistible attraction
to blowflies and
strike will frequently
follow, despite all pre-
cautions. The Elastra-
tor Rubber Ring
method, on the other
hand, is bloodless,
thus offering little
attraction to blowflies.
SEE BUZACOTT’S FARMERS’ BOY DISPLAY AT
BRISBANE ROYAL EXHIBITION
m
- a
...
M
M
m
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration sKows one use for the
“FARMERS' BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a \\ h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
U.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St., Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’iand: Buzaeotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 116 York
St.. Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD.,
32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. JF4396-JPIIBO.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major”
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
TOBACCO PROSPECTS
T ES FREELAND is to be
commended on his article
(B. 27/6/’56) tracing the de-
velopment of the tobacco-leaf
industry in Australia. He dealt
with his subject conscientiously,
and without the overtones of
sectional bias often apparent in
press-statements on the subject.
But there are certain observa-
tions on the economic back-
ground which seem necessary to
complete the picture.
The first, and most important,
is that growers, manufacturers
and Federal and State depart-
mental officers have been
brought together through their
representatives in the Common-
wealth Tobacco Advisory Com-
mittee, which was launched in
Canberra in 1954 to discuss
freely the many technical and
economic problems which inevit-
ably confront the promoters of
a relatively new industry.
Over recent years there has
been close consultation between
growers and manufacturers on
farm-practices, grading and
marketing of tobacco-leaf in
Australia. The largest buyer of
leaf, the British-Australasian
Tobacco Company Pty., Ltd.,
employs field-officers, assists at
grading-schools and sends its
representatives to State commit-
tees to help plan research-work.
It is the firm belief of all
parties connected with this
important national dollar-saving
industry in Australia that only
through joint consultation can
the industry expand on
economically sound lines.
The expenditure of large
sums of money is contemplated
for an extensive research-
programme in the four States
wherein tobacco-leaf is grown—
Queensland, New South Wales,
Victoria and Western Australia.
A capital-fund of £168,000 was
instituted after an initial offer
by British-Australasian Tobacco
to contribute £60,000 over two
years for tobacco - research.
Other manufacturers agreed
among them to make this
amount up to £84,000, to which
the Commonwealth Government
added £ for £ to the total
promised.
To maintain the programme
manufacturers agreed to contri-
bute, in addition, a levy of Id.
a pound on all leaf purchased,
the growers, for their part, pay-
ing J& a pound on all leaf sold,
and the Commonwealth Govern-
“Been dressing in the dark again , Duggan ?”
ment giving £21,000 per annum.
The total “maintenance” contri-
butions on this year’s crop
should work-out at approxi-
mately £62,000.
On the inter-related questions
of price and crop-clearance there
has been a certain amount of
misunderstanding this year of
the policy that buyers were fol-
lowing at the early sales. The
growers were apprehensive that,
with a possible decline in com-
petition at auction, they might
be left with a large proportion
of unsold leaf, and that the
price for the leaf they sold
might fall to an uneconomical
level.
A fall in price from last year’s
record high average (162 d. in
Queensland) was certain, but
growers wanted an assurance of
a 95 per cent, clearance at an
average price of not less than
137 id.
The main buyer, British-
Australasian Tobacco, offered a
minimum-price schedule based
on 112 d. average for all grades
purchased by that company, and
was prepared to underwrite the
crop on that basis for two
seasons. The 112 d. was a
minimum average, and the
actual yield could be expected
greatly to exceed that figure for
two reasons: that the quality of
the crop was improving, and that
competition at auction, especially
for cigarette-type grades, would
raise the price.
If sufficient competition did
not eventuate the 8.-A.T.
promised to bid “premium”
prices on the grades for which
there was no competition. In
this way growers whose offering
was not sold early in the selling-
season could expect a good
average-price, even if there was
little or no competition at
auction.
Manufacturers could not
agree to value on the growers’
137fd.-average minimum-price
schedule. If they did, competi-
tion might have taken the actual
price paid to a level close to last
year’s, which was acknowledged
by- all interested parties to be
uneconomic, and too high for
the future stability of the
industry.
Valuing on separate reserve-
schedules, the sales, which were
suspended after the third sales
in North Queensland and
reopened in June without agree-
ment as to a mutually acceptable
reserve-level, have nevertheless
resulted in a good clearance at
an average realised price of
145 d. in that State.
Growers’ representatives have
conceded that the results so far
are “most satisfactory”; follow-
ing the Commonwealth Govern-
ment’s announcement of higher
percentages of domestic leaf to
be used in tobacco and cigarettes
as from July 1, 1957 (if manu-
facturers are to claim the lower
rate of duty on imported
tobacco-leaf), growers have
every reason to be confident
that the sales over the rest of
the season will remain satisfac-
tory.
One final observation on
crop-clearances growers are
now more impressed than ever
with the desirability, in their
own interests, of submitting at
auction only those grades of leaf
they know to be acceptable to
manufacturers. The quantity of
“no-bid” leaf is small in propor-
tion to the total offering, and
often arises through inexperi-
enced growers presenting “mixed
bales” —i.e., bales with a mixture
of acceptable and reject grades.
Requests that manufacturers
accept a small percentage of
sub-marginal leaf, on the argu-
ment that it would scarcely be
noticed by smokers, will never
meet with the approval of estab-
lished manufacturers. Manufac-
turers’ reply to this proposition
is that one bad egg can spoil an
omelette! Similarly, growers of
peaches don’t expect to sell every
peach on the tree. Standards of
quality must be observed rigidly,
and any compromise with these
standards can only invite buyers’
resistance, and thereby threaten
the long-term security of this
very progressive primary
industry.
W. S. Bengtsson.
Winter Silage
“Barcoo”: In a good season
such as this, when there is
plenty of winter growth in many
districts, what’s wrong with
making silage in cold weather ?
Advantages include the fact
that the short growth contains a
higher percentage of growth-
promoting protein than the
average late-spring cut for silage ;
and silage-making doesn’t inter-
fere with other farm operations,
as in the busier times of the year.
At least one overseas farmer
makes winter silage very success-
fully with the forage-harvester—
an implement which would be
best for the job here, too. One
difficulty would be to cut enough
each time to make worth-while
additions to the silo without
affecting silage already stored.
Winter silage would increase
the incentive for more autumn-
saved feed.
Herd Recording
“Agricola”: The grandfather
must have been a better farmer
than the young studmaster (B.
11/7/’56) if his production
figures were better than the
grandson’s. Queensland figures
show a steady increase in milk-
production over the years. In
1915 the figure was 230 gals. a
cow per year. This rose to
307 gals: during the depression
and reached the 354-gallon mark
in 1954.
But I agree with John Bridges
when he emphasised the value of
milk-recording. It’s the founda-
tion of sound dairying.
Yet it’s hard to convince many
that it’s worth the time and
money. In Denmark 50 per cent,
of the herds are recorded.
England has 25 per cent, and
New Zealand 20 per cent.
Here in Queensland the
present system of herd-recording
started in 1948. Last month
1167 herds were tested. Not
bad for such a short period!
There are two kinds of record-
ing in Queensland. One deals
with stud-cows, the other handles
the grade-herds. In both, testing
is a monthly job.
With stud-cattle, the 24-hour
test can be carried on to 48
hours. This is done if the
recorder suspects that the cows
have been “steamed-up” for the
test. There is no point in doing
this—the second 24-hour test
will be used if the first is obvi-
ously irregular. v
The group scheme deals with
grade-herds. Each group con-
tains about 20 herds. Each is
recorded monthly, but no tests
are carried on to 48 hours. The
recorder’s figures are checked
with the factory returns. This
stops any funny business.
The cost of testing grade-herds
is shared by the State, Common-
wealth and farmer. In practice
the scheme operates much the
same as the one described by
John Bridges.
I don’t know about farmers
doing their own recording—
many *wouldn’t test now if they
had to do the work themselves.
In the present state of the dairy-
industry, monthly recording
seems satisfactory. The cost
would beat you if you tried to
test once a week.
The actual recording is only
part of the game. If you don’t
use the results, you get nowhere
fast and waste money in record-
ing-fees. Experience has shown
you must record year in and year
out. The farmer who tests his
herd for one year and then gives
the game away is pulling his own
leg. He hasn’t been testing long
enough to find out anything. On
top of that, he may have struck a
drought-year, when everything
was topsy-turvy.
Since 1948 Queensland
farmers have increased produc-
tion by using the information
gained from herd-recording.
There were many surprises. Only
27.5 per cent, of the cows milked
for nine months ; 21.8 per cent,
dried-off in less than six months.
Production couldn’t possibly be
high with this percentage of cows
drying-off in six months.
Dairymen find it pays to calve
their cows at one time of the
year rather than another. A
speaker at a Herd Recording
meeting in Central Queensland
put it this way:
Calving lb. butterfat
Jan.-March 126
April-June 143
July-Sept. 154
Oct.-Dec. 137
The speaker pointed out that
this is linked with the time the
cows milk. Those which calved
in January milked for 193 days.
Those calved in July produced
for 230 days.
There’s a long road to travel
before all herds are recorded.
And there’s a lot of hard think-
ing to be done if the results of
recording are to be used to the
best advantage.
The problem involves feeding,
breeding, culling, controlled mat-
ing, pasture-management, and a
dozen other aspects of animal-
husbandry.
Still, apart from an occasional
shot in the arm in the form of a
subsidy, it’s the only way to
make the game pay. If we can
lift the production of each cow
301 b. fat a year without greatly
increasing our working-expenses


at safe, economical engine speeds.
MORE
USABLE
HORSEPOWER
The Wise Truck-Buyer Knows that
rated horsepower figures don’t tell
the whole story of truck perform-
ance. He knows that passenger-car
type truck engines must rev. up to
high speeds to pull their loads. It’s
the usable horsepower that counts
—power available to pull capacity
loads without undue strain.
Power-Curves Show why the new
Australian Black Diamond engines
have helped make these Inter-
national Trucks the middleweight
carrying champions of Australia—
they’re all-truck designed and built
from drain-plug t,o filler-cap to turn
out full power and torque at com-
paratively low r.p.m. to deliver
more usable horsepower.
INTERNATIONAL AS-148—Medium Duty Model!
INTERNATIONAL AS-130—Low-loading Champion !
£5
The nine-foot long tray body shown has a
loading height of only 37 inches and a
capacity of 30 cwt. Powered by the
ABD-220 Black Diamond engine of 108
B.H.P.—more usable horsepower.
The ABD-240 Australian
Black Diamond engine de-
velops 131 B.H.P.—Maxi-
mum torque is reached at
2,000 r.p.m.—giving more
usable horsepower at moder-
ate engine speed.
fijiirmra
AS
ALL-TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY. |§ District Sales offices in capital cities.
INTERNATIONAL 111 TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Victoria) FMT-732/3<
it will be a step in the right direc-
tion.
Regarding “J.B.’s” “negligible
losses”—they may be, compara-
tively : but anyone who can
show me how to save £lOO will
do me for a rough old mate.
That’s why I’m keen on this new
method of checking milking-
machines.
Preparing Frames
“Drone B.”: Preparing frames
for the coming season is a chore
worth getting on with. No good
putting it off until you need
them —by then it’s too late. To
prepare frames properly takes
time, and no beekeeper has any
surplus time in the spring.
When sorting-over frames it’s
best to reject any doubtfuls now.
Greatest points of weakness are
the lugs, which have to carry the
weight of frame, comb, bees and
honey. Nailing-down through
the top-bar weakens the lug. It’s
better to cross-nail any joints
which need tightening (one fin.
nail through the edge of the end-
bar on each side); or a l|in. nail
through the flat section of the
end-bar, into the top-bar.
All frames should be tightly
wired with the four horizontal
wires. Surprising how many bee-
keepers still neglect to use a
vertical strengthening wire—it
takes a little more time to fit,
but repays the effort handsomely
in terms of good combs giving
long service.
One nail should be driven
through the centre of the top-
bar and the end looped-over with
long-nosed pliers. Similarly, the
bottom-bar should be nailed
through, and the end of the nail
looped and turned back into the
wood, to form a sort of staple.
The vertical wire is then cut
roughly to length, one end
looped and hooked over the top
nail. The wire is then wound
once around each of the
horizontal wires, threaded
through the lower nail, drawn
tight, and then twist-fastened.
Any excess is nipped off.
All frames should be fitted
with full sheets of foundation.
Starters are practically useless.
The chief aim in using founda-
tion is to get full combs of
worker-cells. The beekeeper
who fits starters is defeating his
own purpose. The bees will
draw the small strip of founda-
tion into worker-cells, then build
a large proportion of drone-cells
below the level of the starter.
When nailing-up new frames
the usual procedure is to use two
nails each end of the top-bar.
Figures recently released in
America showed that one l|in.
nail with waterproof - glue
produced the strongest joint for
fastening beehive-frames. The
glueing added a little time to the
process, but was well repaid in
stronger joints and longer life;
less nails were used, hence less
weakening of the lugs.
Late Cropping
“Areegra”: Another wet
winter in Victoria’s wheatlands
poses the question: “How late
can a crop be sown with any
hope of success?” The answer
is wheat can be put in as
late as the end of August and
produce better - than - average
crops so long as everything goes
right before the end of the year.
Late-sown crops are less likely
than early crops to be affected
by frost, but they are more likely
to suffer from lack of moisture
if the season cuts-out early, as is
quite possible, even in normal
seasons.
Rates of seeding and fertiliser
are usually increased when crops
are sown late, and, although
there is always that risk of an
early end to the season, it is a
reasonable risk to sow before
the end of August in at least
the Wimmera, western plains
and most of the north-central
and north-east districts.
Tree-lucerne
“Myall”: Tell “Will C.”
tB. 20/6/’56) that there are two
species of trees that are called
tree-lucerne. One, the true tree-
lucerne, is known botanically as
Medicago arborea (the common
lucerne-plant is Medicago
sativa ); the other, generally
called tagasaste, has the botanical
name of Cytisus proliferus.
M. arborea is much superior
as a stock-food to C. proliferus,
being almost as rich in nutritive
qualities as the common lucerne,
and all classes of stock eat it
greedily and do well on it. It
will greatly increase the milk-
flow when fed to dairy-cows.
The plant rarely grows more
than 6ft. high, and the branches
are well clothed with small
leaves, similar to the common
variety. The flowers are yellow
and seed is borne prolifically.
Tagasaste, on the other hand,
will grow to 20ft. high, and, if
intended for stock-feed, should
be kept cut back to make it
bushy and so produce an
abundance of young, tender
growth. Cattle have to acquire
the taste for the foliage, but
when they do they will become
greedy for it.
Both plants are very drought-
resistant, but M. arborca does
not stand up to, cold weather as
does tagasaste. The flowers of
both attract multitudes of bees.
Hedges of tagasaste are
common in many parts of New
South Wales, and it is grown as
a breakwind for orchards in
the Cumberland district. Both
species are well worth growing
in districts subject to periods of
dry weather, as fodder for cattle,
sheep, pigs and poultry.
Self-sown
“Dumosa”: Self-sown cereals
can provide a lot of winter-feed,
but can also harbor diseases such
as rust, which need host-plants
throughout the year.
There’s an unusual amount of
self-sown wheat on roadsides in
Victoria’s wheat-districts this
year —probably from grain spilt
from trucks last harvest.
W.A. Honey
“W.N.”: Last month the
trustees of the W.A. Honey Pool
opened what is claimed to be the
largest’ bulk-handling plant in
the Southern Hemisphere, and
manager Tom Powell gave some
interesting figures.
The industry now has an
annual turnover of above a
quarter of a million £ Australian.
Two-thirds of the production is
exported. Much of it goes to
West Germany, where a good
proportion is used for beer-
manufacture.
Quantities of bulk-h on e y
exported from all W.A. packers
over the last nine years are:
1947- .. .. 422 tons
1948- .... 929 „
1949- .... 687 „
1950- .... 336 „l
1951- .... 839 „
1952- .. .. 1429 „
1953- .. .. 2180 „
1954- .. .. 1371 „
1955- .... 1500 „
The big production of 2180
tons was brought about by the
flowering of the karri.
One beekeeper, R. E. Smith,
over 12 months averaged 7841 b.
per hive from 450 hives. This
was gathered in coastal scrub
and karri country, and 213,9401 b.
was produced from one location.
A criticism one frequently
heard, Powell continued, was
that the local product was not
properly packaged and
marketed. For the benefit of all
present at the opening, he had
asked the British Trade Com-
missioner to collect samples of
English, German and Hungarian
honey as it was packed and sold
to the public. Twenty-four
samples of German honey, one
of Hungarian and 28 English
were shown on tables alongside
the local product.
With the exception of the
Hungarian sample, which was
put up in a glazed pottery jar of
unusual and attractive design,
the local packaging more than
held its own.
At the conclusion of the cere-
mony a demonstration was given
of the bulk handling of honey in
44-gallon drums. The whole
show demonstrated what
enthusiastic management and
co-operation can achieve.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and gqessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
aote for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(29/7/’56)
The Single cycle continues to be the main seasonal
control, and in these circumstances further rains above
normal may be experienced during August in southern
N.S.W. and the northern half of Victoria, with the likelihood
of renewed flooding. South Australia and the south-west
agricultural areas of Western Australia should also receive
rainfall above average.
General rains should continue in a large part of
Queensland and N.S.W. during September, and further heavy
rains may occur in the northern half of Victoria.
South Australia should receive general rains in Sep-
tember, but rain may be patchy in the agricultural areas of
Western Australia; some good falls may occur, however,
in part of the Gascoyne, goldfields and Kimberleys areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). V. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
S'i'RUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. t(. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
fell; big isolated drops, too
scattered and far apart to be
•called rain.
“But it is rain! ” Mrs. Carson
insisted. “I can feel it.”
We had all moved outside and
were holding our hands out and
lifting our faces up to feel every
drop as it spattered down. The
frog that always sat near the
waterbag called excitedly, “Hark,
hark, hark,” and his mate in the
pot of ferns answered, “More
water, more water.”
“I’m getting wet,” Mrs. Carson
announced. “It’s really starting
now. Oh, Joseph, we must get
something out of this.”
We moved in to the shelter of
the veranda, and presently the
water began to drip from the
eaves. Steady rain was falling,
but we were all too tautly strung
to speak. We felt that if we
exulted it would stop.
Only the frogs were optimistic?.
They raised their voices in a
shouted chorus, vying with the
soft drumming of rain on the
bark roof, the drip, drip, drip
from the eaves, and the con-
tinuous growling of thunder.
Another vivid streak of light-
ning flashed down, and the
crashing explosion of thunder
that followed seemed to tear the
heavens apart. It released a
deluge that hissed and cascaded
in glorious waterfalls from the
eaves.
This was rain! Real life-
giving rain.
The lightning lit-up a horse-
paddock of glistening white —
white, where for months it had
been a parched brown and for
days a dead black!
In the next flash of lightning
I saw that Mrs. Carson had her
head on her husband’s shoulder.
His arm was around her, and I
could see his big hand patting
her steadily.
Plainer than words, he was
saying, “It’s all right, Peg.
Everything’s all right now.”
I moved over to speak to
Julie, and she threw both arms
around me, “Oh, Bob!” she
sobbed. “Bob, isn’t ,it
wonderful?”
She was howling, and for some
reason I felt pretty much like
howling myself. I slipped an arm
around her and hugged her
tightly. I held her for a while,
saying nothing because I couldn’t
trust myself to speak.
“I just can’t believe this is
real,” she said.
Poor little kid, she loved Yaka-
parni intensely, and she must
have suffered with it since she
came back from school.
I don’t know how long I held
her, but suddenly I thought,
“Good God! You’re caressing
this kid as though she were a
grown woman, holding her as
you would hold Carla Greer!
The rain must have softened your
brain.”
Thoroughly embarrassed, I
released her and stepped out
under the deluge.
“It’s real enough,” I yelled
above the noise of falling water
and jubilant frogs. “Come out
here and feel it.”
“Ow!” she squealed as the
downpour struck her. “It’s
cold.”
Cold! I had almost forgotten
what cold felt like. It was
wonderful. Wonderful to feel the
cold rain streaming down my
face, wonderful to see if lying
inches deep on the path,
wonderful to think of it foaming
down creeks and filling water-
holes.
“I wonder if the gully’s run-
ning yet?” I yelled. A shallow
gully wound through the horse-
paddock. on its way to join the
creek a few hundred yards from
the house.
“Let’s go and look,” Julie
suggested eagerly.
I grasped the hand she
extended, and answered, “Right,
come on!”
She was back in her place as
an impetuous school-kid now. It
failed to strike me at the time
that the same description could
also be applied to me.
Long before we reached it
the incessant lightning revealed
the fact that the gully was run-
ning. But we kept on. We
wanted to feel it and establish its
depth before the rain stopped
and the water vanished. We
waded in, and only when we felt
the water swirling around our
knees were we satisfied. The
rain was still pouring down, and
it was beginning to feel
uncomfortably cold.
/"''ARSON was waiting for us
'*"' at the dining-room door.
“Where the hell have you been?”
he demanded crossly.
“Down to the gully,” Julie
answered. “To see if it was run-
ning. And, Daddy, it’s”
“Down to the gully!” he
interrupted. “X never heard of
such blasted stupidity. Of course
it’s running. You could tell that
without leaving the veranda if
you had any blasted sense. Go
and put some dry clothes cm.
Your mother’s getting some
supper.”
We went off to our rooms, and
when I returned to the dining-
room Mrs. Carson was pouring
tea and her husband was glaring
indignantly at the big plate of
cakes in the centre of the table.
“Cakes! ” he scoffed. “Haven’t
you got anything* more sub-
stantial than that?”
Smiling, she said, “Go out to
the kitchen and get whatever you
fancy. I trod on a wretched frog
on the way in with the tea and
nearly dropped the teapot on it.”
He went out, muttering • some-
thing about women who were
afraid of frogs, but my
sympathies were with Mrs.
Carson. The big green house-
frog has a habit of sitting in
dark passageways, apparently
waiting to be walked on. Then
he squawks—an ear-piercing,
nerve-shattering shriek of agony,
out of all proportion to his size.
“I hope he, treads on it,” Mrs.
Carson said.
Carson came back without
treading on the frog. He was
carrying a plate heaped with
corned-beef and cold mashed-
potatoes. Doc. Greer’s prescrip-
tion had worked, and I guessed
that from now on the gastric-
ulcer would take precedence over
the heart.
{To be continued next week)
make when Ladrones started up-
river again. There was a new
mud bank forming close to
Lemon-tree Point, and Luke
watched for it anxiously, though
he did not clarify in his mind
any special reason for his wish
to get through this afternoon,
more than other afternoons.
Usually he rather welcomed the
leisure of his sojourns in the
galley with the patience-cards,
waiting for the tide to float
Ladrones off again. But he
swore this afternoon when, try-
ing a sharp turn around the tail
of the bank to keep in the narrow
channel, he ran Ladrones
aground so firmly that it was
clear Seabird could not get her
off.
Nevertheless, Luke tried
manoeuvre he could think of,
driving Leo down to the engine
for half-an-hour’s hard work,
until Leo protested.
“We ain’t got a chance of
getting her off, Luke, and you
know it. You’re just wasting
time and money. I’m going to
lay-off on deck till there’s more
water; I’ve had this.”
Luke gave in. He tried to
entice Leo into the galley for a
game of cards, but it was no
use. Leo had been watching the
house on the point, he knew, and
sure enough after a few minutes-
of sitting on deck he came into
the galley.
“I’m going off in the dinghy
for a bit of a row round, Luke.
Be back when the tide’s higher.”
Luke made no answer. But
after a time he went out and
leaned on the rail, watching Leo
and the dinghy making for
Lemon-tree Point. The Vine-
yard Woman was on the
veranda, shading her eyes from
the afternoon glare as she
watched Leo tie the boat to a
branch at the foot of the
orchard.
Luke saw them meet when
Leo went up to the house,
watched them talking together
until they walked round the
veranda out of sight, and went
inside again to his game. He
looked at the legless alarm-clock
propped on a shelf.
Tide was rising; say, an hour-
and-a-half or two hours to wait.
But he couldn’t settle down to
the cards again; he wandered
restlessly up to the bridge and
back, leaned overside a while and
watched the mud-brown ripple
at Ladrones’ side, fiddled with
this and that, and now and then
stole a glance at the house as
though someone there was
watching for just such a betray-
ing sign.
All was quiet, all was motion-
less in the silver glare of an
afternoon too large for the
landscape, except that ripple and
a black shag perched near by on
a dead driftwood branch in the
mudbank, which now and then
plunged soundlessly and came
out with something in its beak or
bulging its black-and-white
throat. The rows of vines on the
point were green and still in
the windless afternoon; the
brown river crept past the hulk
and her old nose parted it into
a widening wedge that lost itself
over the mudbanks far away.
Luke watched the clock
intensely. An hour; an hour-
and-a-half; and now Ladrones
was beginning just to answer the
tide, not in a movement but in
a promise of movement. Ten-
minutes more, Luke thought,
straining his eyes ashore where
the dinghy still lay under the
tree and the house was still as
before. Now they had passed ;
now he would try.
He ran along the deck by the
hold piled high with logs, and
ducked down into Seabird’s
cabin as though he did not want
to be seen. He poured out the
spirit from the bottle feverishly
and waited in the blue glare until
he could get the engine going,
then dashed up again to the
bridge.
The battering of the engine
startled the silver reach of river,
and the old shag flew off heavily
downstream. Looking across at
Lemon-tree Point, Luke saw Leo
running down the garden to the
dinghy. He spun the wheel
methodically, feeling for the
shape of the bank under
Ladrones’ foot. Would she
move or not?
Leo was rowing over now, his
long brown arms pushing the
oars till they moved as fast and
smoothly as the legs of an insect
scudding over a pool’s surface.
He could row, that boy, Luke
said to himself; but Ladrones
was feeling the engine’s shove
now, her nose moving round
towards the current, the mud
giving way slowly with a live
feeling through the ship’s
timbers, like the arms of a sea-
anemone that drag at the with-
drawn finger.
Now Luke could see Leo’s
eyes as he turned his head,
amazed and shocked, over his
shoulder at Ladrones’ movement.
Luke chuckled at his look of a
child distressed by something
not understood and outraged at
the world’s unpredictability.
CJLOWLY Ladrones made her
way into the current and
swung her head upstream. She
was clear now, and gathering
way, but Leo was close under
her counter and Luke remem-
bered the rope, trailing there.
He felt as he did when he
listened on the radio to a race on
which he had a bet. “Teach
the little so-and-so,” he muttered.
“He’ll find out he can’t have
everything his own way.”
He could hear Leo shouting,
incredulous but with a pleading
note, but he could no longer see
him. Still, he wouldn’t get that
rope now; he was in the full
current of the river. And sure
enough his voice faded slowly
back, behind the beat of Sea-
bird’s engine, into a half-
distinguishable succession of
curses.
Straight ahead now for a bit.
Luke lashed the wheel and ran
down to the stern. There was the
dinghy, dropping back further
and further, Leo's straining back
“You the fella with the fly iti his tea ?”
wet with sweat that marked the
gay shirt at which Luke had
mocked inwardly. Now he was
giving it up, turning back
towards the Point. As his face
came into view, Luke waved
once and went back to the
bridge, filled with the swelling
delight of victory in the race.
• “Teach him something,” he
muttered again, and set himself
to the accustomed task of bring-
ing Ladrones up-river to the mill-
wharf again.
He had a job to berth her;
the river was running strongly.
When at last he had the ropes
across, and the mill-official came
aboard, he was more tired than
he had ever been. He went to
the galley and sat limply down
at the table, where his unfinished
game still lay.
The mill-official came in with
his books, surprised at Luke’s
not greeting him as usual.
“ ’Lo, Joe,” Luke said heavily.
“ ’Ere we are at last.”
“Lorst your dinghy?” said
Joe.
“Yair; she’ll be somewhere
round Lemon-tree, 1 reckon.”
“What about Leo? Thought
you had him aboard this trip.”
“So I did, but it’ll be the last
time. Can’t get on with that kid
anyways.”
“Bit of a lair, eh? Where’d
you manage to lose him? His
ma’li be off her head if she
knows he ain’t on board.”
“He’s old enough to look after
himself, 1 reckon. Went ashore
down Lemon-tree in the dinghy ;
there yet, I s’pose. Wasn’t much
use to me anyways. But it don’t
matter ; I’m selling-out next trip.
Too old for the game, Joe.
Youse can find some other bloke
to run your logs in.”
“What you going to do with
yourself, then?” asked Joe with
interest, “Taking the pension or
something?”
“Yair,” Luke said, gathering
up the patience-cards. “That’s
fight; I’m taking the pension.”


NOW AVAILABLE AGAIN FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
h.ms. ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
The Great Epic of the Sea
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
MY OLD MAN’S A DUSTMAN
by Wolf Mankowitz —a touching story of a
Cockney Don Quixote and his Sancho
Panza —the old Cock, watchman on a
Council rubbish dump, and Arp, a dumb,
bomb-shocked ex-A.It.P. man. “....this
is sinewy, solid, all of a piece.... far and
away the best thing he’s done.” (Sunday
Times, London.) 13/3 (post 7d.)
ENTERTAINING READING
ALL ABOUT OURSELVES
and Other Essays
by J. B. Priestley. It was as an essayist
that J. B. Priestley first became famous
while still an undergraduate at Cam-
bridge. Brie Gillett, famous critic and
broadcaster, has selected the best of his
essays and has contributed a long,
appreciative Introduction. 26/- (post 1/1)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St.,
C.l.
WATERFALL
by Dorothy Lucie Sanders
Another delightful family novel about the Montgomeries
of Pepper Tree Bay.
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
Retail Price, 15 [6d.
Hodder and Stoughton Ltd.
BY JUMPING CAT BRIDGE
KENNETH McMILL WILLS
Stories of a year of country living in Canada
Scraperboard drawings by Lucille Oille
At all booksellers - - - 18/9
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
his last lyrics are some of the best he
ever, wrote. His literary career was
one long sustained success; he made a
fortune frdm his plays, poems and
novels, and his last novels were as
avidly read as those of his early
maturity. The only disruption he
imposed on their production was his
descent into the chicanery of politics.
And in the character of an ardent
Republican, a humanist, and a
vociferous advocate for the rights of
the suffering • poor . . .
One must always suspect altruistic
outcries about suffering humanity; and,
in particular, the fatuous assumption
that the lower orders are especially
singled out for suffering. Suffering,
physical or mental, ignores class-
distinctions. It is an essential process
in the creation of consciousness, and
its intensity increases with the higher
development of the civilised mentality.
In the lower strata of the human
ego sensitivity to suffering decreases,
till the purely primitive are almost
immune to pain . . .
In Hugo, it is clear, attraction and
repulsion for sadism were equally
balanced. The stronger pull, perhaps,
was towards sadism. A visitor to him
in his later years was perturbed to find
that the only pictures on the walls of
his study were of medieval torture-
chambers. A writer might study such
scenes for documentary subject-matter,
but he does not constantly keep them
under his eye unless he likes them.
Nor does he subject the creatures his
works deal with to intolerable torments
unless he is getting a thrill out of
them.
Conscience demands that this thrill
must be compensated for by an equally
excessive love for humanity. Both
excesses lead to bad art. All extreme
states of emotion, all excessive acts of
violence, must be handled with discre-
tion. They are like the color red in
painting; used indiscriminately, its
violence can dominate all other values.
Blood is red, and if squandered too
prodigally by a writer only enforces
satiation on the reader. Great poetry
alone can deal with brutal and violent
deeds, because the exultation inspired
by its imagery compensates for revul-
sion against the deed.
In Hugo’s constant preoccupation
with physical suffering in his works
there is a content of innocence. Or
ignorance. For his biography reveals
the staggering anomaly that he was
practically immune from pain. He
never had a day’s illness in his life.
When in old-age he got a slight twinge
of toothache he cried out in astonish-
ment, “What is this?”
For the rest, Hugo’s works belong
to the category of the titanic, the
grandiose, the gigantesque. His figures
have the over-life-size distortions of
those painted by Michelangelo. It
is in the scenic power of his writing,
his capacity to envision nature in
cosmic dimensions, that the great
qualities of his work reside. As
Gautier said of “Les Miserables,” “It
is neither good nor bad; it is not the
handwork of a man, but a phenomenon
of natural forces.”
Who Were They?
“The Bulletin” itself, when it pub-
lished “The Bulletin Story. Book” in
1901, did not know the names of more
than a dozen writers who contributed
under pen-names. The names of some
were discovered, but who today can
tell me the identity of “E. & 0.E.,”
“Omicron,” “Brogden,” “Omega,”
“Ponte” and “Boiling Billy”?
Who were “C.W.,” “F.M.W.G.,”
“J.P.,” “McG.,” “Hoiya,” “Weeka”
and “Victor Zeal”? And who were the
other more-or-less regular “Bulletin”
contributors who signed themselves
“Hiram Abiff,” “Mantis,” “Pelican,”
“Polype,” “Mamoosa,” “Old Jack.”
“Tahune Lin ah” and “Felix Slowboy”?
I am at the moment particularly
interested in “McG.,” whom I strongly
suspect was Montague Grover.
Digging into the past, as I have been
doing lately, pictures of many of the
forgotten writers of the ’eighties and
’nineties are beginning to emerge in
a defined form.
There was Bernard Espinasse
(“Bolivar”), whose wife, Elise Espi-
nasse, was another “Bulletin” writer.
Espinasse had seven Christian-names
and came from a family of French
Huguenots. He said that his surname
derived from Ashpenaz (“And the
King spake unto Ashpenaz, the master
of his eunuchs,” Daniel 1,3.).
He was cradled on that much
written-about steamship the Great
Eastern, the largest of its day, and he
roamed the world at large. He was an
errand-boy to a palmist, a salesman,
private secretary to an antiquarian,
reporter, actor and writer of panto-
mimes and extravaganzas. His interest
in astrology, palmistry and mysticism
was a source of cynical amusement to
his hard-boiled contemporaries.
And. there was Irwin A. Qrmsby
(“Zadig”), who came into this world
at Kangaroobie station, near Orange
(N.S.W.), and who was a frequent con-
tributor of verse in the late ’nineties.
“Ormsby’s was, I think, the most
encyclopaedic mind I have ever
known,” wrote a paragraphist. One
can see him talking with lepidopterists
in their own language, giving butter-
flies their scientific names and assist-
ing them where their own knowledge
ended by naming the plant or tree
upon which a butterfly was feeding.
He was a brother of Lyster Ormsby, the
curio-dealer, a picturesque and lovable
Sydney character years ago.
“Alone” was James Fairnie, who ran
away from his Melbourne home at an
early age, took up bush-work and had
a selection in Gippsland, which he
walked off to chase for gold all over
Australia.
Richard Holt (“6 x 8”) found his
way to the South Gippsland moun-
tains and took to splitting giant black-
butts and mountain-ash into sleepers,
palings, posts and rails, but did best
there trapping possums and lyrebirds.
He then led an “easy, reckless, care-
less, outback life” —droving, shearing,
mustering, fencing and burr-cutting,
with occasional excursions into bush
journalism. For a while Holt ran a
page of “On the Wallaby” sketches for
the “North Queensland Register.”
H. H. Cripps Clark (“Two Seas”)
wrote his first “Bulletin” verse when
he was jackerooing on the Liverpool
Plains (N.S.W.) in 1884. The cheque
for the verse provided him with a new
stockwhip. He began writing when he
was a boy at sea.
These writers are fairly well docu-
mented. But I would welcome more
information about Dugald McLachlan
(“L.M.D.”), who was “in charge of a
mud school in the Mallee, teaching half
a dozen wild bush-children”; Frank
Hulme, from Castlemaine, for 30 years
a telegraph-operator; Frank Bellman,
a prospector .from Norfolk (England),
who spent one half of his life “learning
dead languages and the other half in
endeavoring to forget them in grog-
and-grumble mining camps”; Ambrose
Gates (“Vulcan”), who never lived up
to the promise he showed as a youth;
and William Sabelberg, who might not
have written a line if he had not fallen
from a stable roof at the age of
sixteen.
I am intrigued by J. B. Castieau
(“Paul Mell”), who spent his first
seventeen years living in jails. His
father was governor of Beechworth
(Vic.) jail, where the son was born,
and other Victorian prisons. Which
explains why Castieau’s earliest
“Bulletin” contributions had titles such
as “Ghosts of a Gallows” and “Prisons
and Criminals.”
There still remains a host of others
who are just names—Phil Flynn, R. A.
Bulford, Jeff Cramer, Frank Hawkes-
bury, H. Siebel, H. O’Donnell. J. H.
Greene, Max Merroll, Graham Kent,
L. de Baaker, J. J. O’Meara and others,
As for the women—well, they are
elusive creatures at the best of times,
Who knows anything about Ethel
Castilla, Inez K. Hyland, Mabel
Holmes, Mary Lloyd, Ethel Mills and
Maud Light?
W. E. Fitz Henry.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 394
Across
I—Requirement to be in a castle
stronghold standing in about 15
inches of water. (4-4)
s—Newsreel features pants. (6)
10— Sole claim is misrepresented by
an operatic toreador. (9)
11— Fuss to be dried mud. (5)
12— Dash six thousand. (3)
13— An American private set fire,
but why such nibleness. (7)
18— Kay without a wall who thinks
he’s a super-quiz kid. (4-3)
19— The dyeing mordant is to serve
successfully against a . London
gallery man. (7)
20— A monkey and lin Mount Cook.
(7)
21— Diana, buy a round of drinks and
serve up. (4, 3)
22 Medical man bowling a stock-
man. (6)
23 — Confuse a famous Hollywood
actor of the silent days. (3)
27 Proson way in which the uncon-
vinced customer may test goods
without paying for them forth-
with. (5)
28— Ken on the shelf? (9)
30— Swings the lead garments. (6)
31— -Dray land where your clothesline
is? (8)
Down
1— Retain the castle stronghold. 14)
2 Bureau cries changed to fury.
(10)
3 Cupola to suit Yours Truly. (4)
4 A general upset fish. (3)
6 A fellow painting the sea on the
south-east flower. (10)
7 -Opening up an area. (4)
8— Confectionery is tiny in the street
gratifications of a carnivore. (10)
9 The name of a safe but non-
chalant fish to pass away a gold-
field. (10)
14 — Bears’ malice towards this. (10)
15 — Approval to Louisiana greeting
humanity’s Americans. (10)
16 — -Punch, when cursed, goes on foot
for the thrifty. (6, 4)
17— See a breezeless artist in town in
N.S.W. (10)
24 — lason in Wales mentions Samoan
port articles about 3.14159. (4)
25 — Trouble for raiding aircraft is
initiated by five lieutenants after
killing. (4)
26 1-across puts it into 1-down. (4)
29 —Vowels matched eggs. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 393


CENTURY’S NEW
Home Lighting Battery
with these WONDERFUL
NEW FEATURES
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE CONTAINER
You corn see the acid level at a glance.
. . ✓ • ■ . ; . • .. '
GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
3
SILVIUM
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
4
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
GUARANTEED
SUVIA
' ,jg
' jit
mmnmM
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILVIUM
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY. Type CPG 227.
D
a
a
Q-
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge of the battery
at all times.
Va
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.
Alexandria,
N.S.W.
Glass ti^uXcCted
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
«bSILVIUM
CENTURY BATTERIES FOR CARS. TRUCKS, TRACTORS. EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT, MOTOR CYCLES, RADIO,
HOME LIGHTING ARE DISTRIBUTED BY:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Smith Sons &
Rees Ltd., 30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney. Bradley
Bros. Ltd., 55-59 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway, Sydney. Industrial
Sales & Service (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
Lidcombe. Motor Traders Pty. Ltd., 70 Common-
wealth Street, Sydney.
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd.,
5 1 5 Kiewa Street, Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.,
sole concessionaires, I 5 Ackland Street, Adelai e.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart; 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Alien Bros. (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.
