

i
I
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
KITE-FLYING AND AUTOMATION — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3994
Wednesday, August 29, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 313: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
MONTACUTE'S DINING ROOM RELIC OF THE FIRST ELIZABETHAN AGE
AN ever-increasing number of England’s stately homes are being converted
into museums, schools and institutions, but some still succeed in looking
hard times and high taxation in the face and in remaining the homes of
their owners, to whom they have passed through a long line of ancestors and
to the accompaniment of much history. Others have passed into the hands of
the National Trust to be preserved for posterity; one of the most outstanding
of these is Montacute House, which'stands four miles from Yeovil in Somerset.
In this beautiful building erected in 1595, Elizabethan architecture achieved
one of its masterpieces. It expresses in warm yellow stone the rise to power
and wealth of Edward Phelips. an eminent lawyer in the reign of the first Queen
Elizabeth. It was he who led the prosecution of the notorious Guy Fawkes
in 1606, following the unsuccessful plot to blow up the Houses of Parliament in
London. Later he became Speaker of the House of Commons and Master of
the Rolls.
The interior is particularly notable for its rich panelling, elaborate plaster
work and its heraldic glass. In the first Elizabethan age heraldry was closely
associated with social status and played an important part in the decorative
schemes of homes of those entitled to bear arms. The interior of the house
still retains much contemporary decoration and now contains a fine collection
of pictures and period furniture formed by the National Trust.
Some examples of these are shown in the accompanying view of a corner 9f
the Great Dining Room of Montacute, which, like other rooms and galleries in
this great Elizabethan house, is decorated with friezes, tapestries, and rich
panelling; and are hung with portraits of successive generations of the Phelips
family who either made or spent great fortunes in their lifetime. The largest
room in the house is the Long Gallery, which extends 180 feet between its two
lofty oriel windows.


BOOK HUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
DR. BEAN ON THE DARLING
Now reprinted by Angus and
Robertson, Dr. C. E. W. Bean’s The
Dreadnought of the Darling was first
published in London in 1911 and was
put together from a set of articles
written for the Sydney “Herald” after
tours of the outback and journeys by
river-steamer which took the author,
in actual travel or in hearsay, from the
Paroo to Goolwa.
Its origin in the “Herald” of the
period, and its attempt to appeal to an
English audience, give the book a
certain staidness. A gentleman from
the “Herald” in 1911 would never have
dreamed of glamorising himself as
“I”; he is “the Sydney passenger.” He
would never have dreamed of reporting
that the skippers of the river-steamers
swore: they say, of all things, “jolly.”
Still, there are the compensating
virtues of thoroughness and —as of
course we would expect from “On the
Wool Track” and Dr. Bean’s war-
histories —warmth of feeling and clarity
of description. It is a record of
the Darling and the Murray as the great
waterways were in the days when the
boats were still a vital form of trans-
port; when steamers in flood-time
would nose their way up to impossible
places in the middle of nowhere or, in
drought, lie baking in the mud at Louth
for months; and when “the Sydney
passenger” could lie lazing on the deck
while mile after mile of clay banks and
river-gums drifted past, watching the
crew trying to shoot ducks or listening
to the tales of still longer ago.
Though important business went on,
picking up the wool from remote
stations, it is an idle, easygoing, sunny
and watery tale as Dr. Bean tells it,
with much of the charm of A. P.
Herbert’s “The Water Gypsies”; and
perhaps the most fascinating part of it,
simply because most of it is necessarily
so idle, and because the manoeuvring of
boats is always a pleasant thing to read
about, is in the description of navigat-
ing the river in moments when it
became awkward:—
Next day the skipper was obvi-
ously ill at ease with regard to the
water over one of the bars ahead of
him. Several bars were passed with
a foot or two under the keel, and
here and there the rocks just awash
on either beam. The skipper
reckoned it would be a very close
go at Yanda bend. And late that
afternoon the Dreadnought came to
a very curious reach of the river.
The channel, which was running
fairly straight, suddenly widened out
into a circular pool. The right bank
of the river ran straight on. But out
of the left bank some agent or other
had taken a large semicircular bite,
leaving a basin of glassy, curiously
moving water, something the size and
shape of Oxford Circus in London.
... . They put a line on to the bank
astern and let the Dreadnought drift
down on to it; swung her into the
bend, hugging the shore ; and then
slowly and with the utmost caution
allowed her to drop down, foot by
foot as the rope was paid out, creep-
ing along under the bank till she
reached the other side of the pool. . .
What Dr. Bean didn’t see for him-
self he picked up from the locals: tales
of flood, fire, murder, bushrangers,
dingoes, mysterious lights by night and
a most vivid description of a flood
from the Dry Bogan pouring into the
Darling and rushing on into Bourke:
“It was early in the afternoon,”
he said, “and.. . .just then a boy
came by with a message that there
was two feet of water coming down
the river at North Bourke. I looked
up-river—and I’ll never forget the
sight. Far up the bend I saw, coming
rolling down it, a dirty, grimy object
that looked like a great twisting,
twirling caterpillar. As it twirled over
and over it seemed to me to be piled
many feet' high. Down it came,
rolling before it all the tubs and
roofs and boxes and kerosene-tins,
odd scraps of wood, mice and centi-
pedes—all the rubbish that had con-
gregated in the river for the last
eight months or more. It was three-
o’clock then. By five there was
twelve feet of water in the river, and
the next day there was twenty feet.”
In all, with the great rivers, dry or
wet, with the explorers such as Burke
and Wills coming into the story, with
the old-hands and the aborigines, the
wild-life and the trees and wild-
flowers, it makes, if you take it quietly,
a rich and solid piece of reading; and,
if many later writers have covered
much the same territory, still worth
while for its first-hand experiences and
its comprehensiveness.
Words and Politics
For some years the general reader
has been aware that philosophy has
been under a cloud, and it is interest-
ing to see it emerge in such collections
as Philosophy, Politics and Society
(Blackwell), by Peter Laslett, who
says:—
“The Logical Positivists did it.
It was Russell and Wittgenstein,
Ayer and Ryle who convinced the
philosophers that they must with-
draw unto themselves for a time and
re-examine their logical and
linguistic apparatus. And the result
of this re-examination has been
radical indeed. It called into ques-
tion the logical status of all ethical
statements, and set up rigorous
criteria of intelligibility which at one
time threatened to reduce the tradi-
tional ethical systems to assemblages
of nonsense.
Indeed, the reader of Bertrand
Russell’s circus-parade of standard
philosophers, even if Wittgenstein
means to him no more than a couplet
by William Empson:—
“What is conceivable can happen
too,”
Said Wittgenstein, who had not
dreamt of you,
and Ayer and Ryle are no more than
names, must be surprised at anyone
being brave enough to hold that words
mean anything. The authors in this
collection are cautious, of course;
words may not mean much, but, says
T. D. Weldon:—
The purpose of philosophy is to
expose and elucidate linguistic
muddles ; it has done its job when
it has revealed the confusions which
have occurred and are likely to
recur in inquiries into matters of fact
because the structure and use of
language are what they are.
Most of the essays are dedicated to
putting back on the shelves ideas that
have been shaken off in the spring-
cleaning, and a considerable amount
of the method is that of “but never-
theless,” for which the Greeks no
doubt had a word. For instance,
Margaret ’ Macdonald makes a survey
of “Natural Rights,” agreeing that “the
natural man” and “natural rights”
never existed—but, nevertheless, Con-
stitutions are founded on them and
millions of people believe in them:
therefore they are whatever people
believe them to be.
In the same way, W. J. Rees in
“The Theory of Sovereignty Restated”
fits out the modern democratic State
with a variety of sovereigns, “legal,”
“coercive,” “moral,” “influential,”
who may be a person, a majority, or a
pressure-group, and who are
sovereigns when they happen to be so;
and opines that the existence of inter-
national law does not negative the kind
of sovereigns he has established. And
Bernard Mayo, considering the
objection to the theory of “The
General Will,” that a multitude can-
not be said to be of one will, makes
the point that the public will is as
much a resolution of individual con-
tentions as is the individual will of self-
contradictions.
E. & O. E.: one hopes that one has
not misrepresented these complex webs
of words—or fallen into them. Even
for the philosophically uninstructed,
there is a fascination in seeing brilliant
minds ticking-off the points. A. M.
Quinton, for instance, in his essay “On
Punishment,” dealing with the retri-
butist theory that offenders have “a
right to punishment,” or Renford
Bamborough pointing-out Plato’s false
analogy in giving complete control of
the “Ship of State” to the captain:—
The bus-driver has his special
skill and training, but they do not
entitle him or enable him to choose
the route along which he is to drive.
And anyone who thinks “law” is an
exactly settled term or idea need only
consult Glanville Williams on “The
Controversy Concerning the Word
‘Law’ ” to have a whole new world of
uncertainty opened unto him. And
even if one understands completely
these delicate distinctions, or vaguely
gets their drift, or utterly mistakes
them, there is the consolation that they
will continue unsettled as long as man,
if for no other reason than that given
by a moron in Eliot’s “Sweeney
Agonistes”:—
I gotta use words when I speak to
you.
A Parish in Africa
With its treacherous veldt-fires and
stories of farmers just about to give
up when the rains come, and drilling
for water, and water-divining—the
author has a most circumstantial
account of his own prowess with a
divining-rod—All the Way to Abenab
(Faber), by the Rev. Frank Haythorn-
thwaite, resembles a story of the
Australian outback . . . with a differ-
ence. It is an account of Mr. H.’s
parish of Walvis Bay and hinterland.
In the bay, for a change from
droughts, there is some notable fishing ;
a huge industry established only in
1950. Six fish-factories are limited to
a catch of 250,000 tons a season,
mainly of pilchards, with some snoek.
The pilchards are netted from boats
and are sucked through a pipe out
of the holds onto the factories’
conveyor-belts, which carry them to
be weighed and boiled for oil, or
beheaded, scaled, de-tailed, gutted,
cooked, sterilised, canned, sealed,
labelled and packed, .all by machinery.
Up the coast a bit is a more unusual
industry—tide-covered rocks on which
a German, Adulf Winter, caused to be
set up a wooden platform “big enough
for two Rugby pitches.” The locals for
a year called it “Winter’s Folly,” but
then the cormorants, gulls, pelicans
and flamingoes saw Mr. Winter’s point,
that it was safer to sit on his platform
than to be attacked by jackals on
shore. Since then, for ten months of
every year, they do their duty by him,
and every February and March his
employees remove a thousand tons of
guano from the platform, which gives
Mr. Winter an annual income of at
least four, and sometimes five, figures.
Travelling by train around the
parish the reader meets a storekeeper
with the unusual name of Mr. Fritz
Christ; a Mr. Jackson who has a
karakul farm, where they kill the new-
born lambs for their Persian-wool curl;
Mr. T. D. Salt, who owns three farms
where he lets the leopards kill his
calves rather than be a party to their
total extinction, and where the
baboons turn the taps on in the dam
so they can have a shower in the
overflow; and so on. ,
The book ends out in the bush at
Abenab, where the South-West Africa
Company has one of the greatest
vanadium-mines in the world. Here
the centre of life is the club, and they
have a rule that misbehavior brings
instant suspension:—
As this ban operates against the
entire family, bereft thereby of
books, films, and anything else of
entertainment and amenities, there
is some restraining pressure from
the family, too, to ensure tolerable
behavior, not always easy to secure
in a mining camp.
White and Black
Mary Durack’s Keep Him My
Country (Constable) has gone through
three editions in London before a
review-copy found its way to this
office. In the meantime Katharine
Prichard’s “Coonardoo” has been
reprinted, and it is Miss Durack’s mis-
fortune that, while one is glad to see
this overseas success for her very read-
able novel, one must note how much
her story recalls Katharine Prichard’s.
In their essentials the two novels are
practically identical. The theme is
the same—an outback settler’s love
for a lubra; and, though Miss Durack’s
Dalgerie goes off with her rightful
aboriginal husband and gets leprosy,
instead of being seduced by Sam Geary
and going off to disease and death on
the pearling-luggers, the working-out
of the theme is also much the same.
Like Katharine Prichard, Miss
Durack has an old aboriginal woman
mothering the cattleman and acting as
deus ex machina; her hero, like Miss
Prichard’s, gets fever at critical
moments in his amours; and in “Keep
Him My Country” as in “Coonardoo,”
because the central love-story has no
real force—though Miss Durack has
the additional theme of her cattle-
man’s attempts to get away from the
outback—the action is largely casual
and episodic. A homicidal fighting
man, Wilde, for example, drifts in and
does a lot of fighting —but not really
for any significant purpose in the
story.
In broad outline one outback novel
must always, of course, very much
resemble another. The all-atoning
remedy for the writer who wants to do
something different lies in the intimate
observation of character: and in the
angle of vision.
Miss Durack has not the fervor of
vision which makes the descriptions
of the landscape so vivid in “Coonar-
doo” and which lifts the portrait of
the heroine into a kind of poetic
symbol; but, aside from her central
story, she has a . wider range of
characters who do, to a large extent,
give her novel the requisite freshness.
Her cooks, stockmen, Flying Doctors,
drunks, brawlers, aborigines and stray
visitors from the cities are not major
pieces of characterisation, but they are
lively.
Essentially documentary in its
interest but with humanity in these
portraits and with sociological value in
its discussion of the problems of the
aborigines, the novel moves along
through flood, hurricane and heat, with
horse-breaking, mustering, crocodile-
shooting and aboriginal spearings, to
make, in all, a warm and sympathetic
picture of outback life.
Reviewed Briefly
Death in the Limelight: A. E. Martin
OReinhardt). Mr. Martin promised well
in his Brisbane freak-show mystery,
“The Chinese Bed Mystery”; and has
here moved-on to a Sydney vaudeville-
theatre and the murder there of a
hypnotist’s stooge. Mr. Martin has
moved around among show-people, and
his sketching of an outlived American
actor, a Mexican knife-thrower and his
wife, a stage-carpenter, an old door-
man, etc., is first-rate; but as the
mystery moves out to Parramatta, to
the home of the rich old relict of a
vaudeville Shakspearian act, where the
old girl has a waxwork figure of her-
self as Desdemona in bed on a private
stage to lure her dead husband back at
seances at which the hypnotist presides,
it loses touch with reality; and the
solution comes less as a shock than as
a reminiscence.
*** . *
Hotel Bemelmans: Ludwig Bemel-
mans (Hamilton). This is a collection
into one volume of 24 of Bemelmans's
memories of hotel-life from behind
the scenes, with two new essays. One
of the world’s greatest living humorists
in the Mozart tradition—one, that
is, who does not pick and choose his
humor, but is able to transform
material that is in essence not funny
—he is for that reason able to present
the spendthrift and wasteful
millionaire-hotel as a philosophy of
life; and he is as convincing when he
is telling the story of the legendary
maitre d’hotel, Gabriel, whose fabu-
lous feat of anticipation saved Mrs.
George Washington Kelly’s birthday-
party from ruin, as he is in the several
pieces devoted to the tragic career of
the unhappy waiter Mespoulets. With
73 drawings by the author.
* * * *
Mountain Panorama: edited by Max
Robertson (Max Parrish; Australasian
Publishing Co.). Winter-sports and
climbing covered by a variety of con-
tributors including Sir John Hunt, Sir
Arnold Lunn, Sir Stanley Rous, Wilfrid
Noyce and Wynford Vaughan Thomas.
Mr. Thomas describes a visit to Mt
Cook in New Zealand.


7'
7\7- : -
11
Si
m
o
I
1
g i ■,
%
lII™
111
& B
■
tllitl
•V: ■
mmWm
E26liliillll?3
mm
m
■■■■l'
mi 1
■K
H
5*
■
iigl
K
iH
11
111li
m
II
ill
O
§ll
■II
■m
i
■
in
■
in
n
jS
Hi
m
; :
lilll
888888 ’
r-
'
8888
*’ - * /Oyt '^^KoSLt-*
</ / * . >, y
'./' .’ / / - ,*>«
,V'
»*/./
7-f- * *•, / .* . .
• "/. - T- : . V *>.
: --
/»/.•_/*<./, *i/- • .
V- <•.'>'/ - -
'il'-.vVv~V
■v ■‘/rf «. '• /
•;> v.
H
*A
p
IMP
p
\
\
o
Si
A
'Y
IS
■ ,
More than enough
Father’s Day
gifts
to reach the top
of Sydney’s
tallest T.V. tower
"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
80951
For five generations Anthony Horderns’ have been
pleasing fathers—from Great Great Grandfather to your
father to-day. We’re experts at having the right
thing for Dad, and if you just can’t think of
something to give him, ring B0951, and ask for
T.O.P.S. One of our team of shopping experts (or
angels?) will be happy to help you choose the right gift.
RING 80951 AND ASK
FOR T.O.P.S. BOX
2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol 77—No. 3994
Wednesday, August 29, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
STRATEGY OF SURPRISE
THE effect of the soft-war campaign of the Kremlin
has become more and more marked throughout
the world as roving reporters, businessmen (with
temptations dangled in front of their noses in the
way of trade) and soft-shell and impressionable
tourists bring home tales of the Soviet bloc’s
wonders and open-handed friendliness.
It is not surprising that the cunning “under-
ground” in the West finds it easy to insinuate the
idea that defences can be relaxed. Also, that
politicians should compromise with their
consciences.
The Suez incident has, of course, given a
setback to the trend towards Western disarma-
ment. But that is merely incidental. On the eve
of Nasser’s seizure of the canal Sir Anthony Eden
assured the House of Commons that the hydrogen-
bomb seemed to be a deterrent to aggressors
sufficient to enable relaxation of defence-measures
and reduction of forces. The United States Con-
gressional committees on defence-expenditure have
been much in the same mood, which has appealed
to an Administration facing a Presidential election.
In Australia the daily press has generally been
in favor of reduction of the defence-vote. And those
who follow defence activities have noted a listless
air of impotence about the defence departments, as
if the crowd of Ministers, who seem nearly as
numerous as the defence forces themselves, were
tired of the effort and bewildered by the task which
keeps them looking both ways at once.
The Soviet Union and Red China, despite their
blandishments, continue to keep up large armies
aimed at the countries which every statement of
Communist theory—including those issued to (and
after) the Twentieth Congress of the Russian Com-
munist Party and the subsequent ones in the
European satellite countries—marks down for
conquest through Socialist revolution.
True, the existing line is that this revolution
must be brought about by the internal forces of
local Socialism acting in a united front with
Communist-guided leadership. But the second line
of propaganda, which is at present reserved for
Communists, is that when this has been achieved
the way will be open for the transfer of the made-
over countries into the Soviet world-bloc.
It is a cynical reflection that the “anti-colonial”
and “anti-imperialist” bloc has as its objective the
greatest venture in colonialism and imperialism
that the world has ever known: the engulfing of
the world into the kind of rule which subjects the
tame Governments of Hungary, Czechoslovakia,
Rumania and Poland to the iron will of Moscow.
All these Russian colonies are kept in bondage
under the “moral influence” of huge Russian-armed
forces acting on the minds and hides of an unarmed
populace which is shot-down ruthlessly (as at
Poznan) if it dares to resist.
One who believes that the world situation is
even more dangerous today than it has been for
years, because of the relaxation of Western pre-
cautions under the shadow of the hydrogen-bomb
and the flood of Russian and Chinese geniality, is
General Ridgeway, successively commander of
U.N.O. forces in the Far East during the later
phases of the Korean War, of the Nato forces in
Europe and lately Chief-of-Staff of the U.S. Army.
He wrote in an article in the “Saturday Even-
ing Post” early this year that, as military adviser to
U.N.O. after the war, it was his task to seek some
formula by which the free world and the Russians
could keep the peace. “And,” he declared, “from
that experience I learned one bitter lesson—that
in the world today there can be no peace that is
not based on strength.”
The product of “trimming the fat” from the
Western forces had been the Korean war, “in
which skeleton regiments, starved by a disastrous
economy policy, held the line of the Pusan beach-
head until brave men of many nations could join
to fight that bloody ‘brush-fire’ war to a stalemate
and wary truce”: —
To me the lessons of that conflict were clear
—that hope of peace rests solidly on strength for
war. It also shattered, I hoped for ever, the
dreamy-eyed delusion which possessed the minds
of many then—that the threat of the nuclear
weapon alone could keep the peace.
General Ridgeway is firm in his belief that it
was only the build-up of the Nato forces in Europe
on a perilousiy-belated timetable three or four
years ago “which kept the Russian armies from
storming in a grey tide across Europe to the
Channel”—a belief which has solid ground under
it based on exact knowledge of the structure for
aggression of the Red armies in Europe. He adds:
I further believe that the recent switch in
Russian diplomatic tactics, from belligerence to
bonhomie, from surliness to smiles, is a studied
effort on their part to lull and soothe us, and thus
to slow the build-up of that force which guards the
heart of Europe. I am distrustful of the smiles
of Mr. Bulganin and the amiability of Mr.
Khrushchev.
The European Institute for the Study of the
U.S.S.R. in Germany has made a close examina-
tion of changes in Russian military doctrine which
have been contemporaneous with the abolition of
the Stalinist “cult of the individual.” Its material
has been definitive articles in the official Red Army
paper “Krasnaya Zuezda” by Marshals Sokolovsky
and Rotmistrov last year.
Sokolovsky is the Chief of the Combined
General Staff of the Soviet Armed Forces. He
lays it down as a positive theory that the primary
aim in planning overall military policy is to provide
means of depriving the “aggressor” of the
advantages derived from the element of surprise.
He postulates that it is “not enough to be merely
prepared and able to strike blow for blow.”
In other words, the Red Army has developed
the theory that preventive war by surprise attack
is necessary.
Despite the complacence of Sir Anthony Eden
and others about the deterrent effect of atomic
weapons, the Soviet command in its recent essays
has accepted the fact that the next war must be
atomic and that its forces and procedure must be
adapted to take advantage of that certainty, “elevat-
ing the surprise factor to one of supreme import-
ance which requires training to be carried out on
the basis that future actions will take place in the
form of a mighty preventive blow by the strategic
application of atomic and nuclear weapons”:—
Preparation for waging war not only by the
destructive blitzkrieg method involving a power-
ful attack with strategic atomic weapons but also
by simultaneously wearing the enemy down by
applying increasingly harder blows with massed
conventional and atomic tactical arms.
The author of the article in the journal of the
Institute for the Study of the U.S.S.R. declares that
“the present evolution of Soviet doctrine, in con-
junction with the immutable aim of Communising
the rest of the w0r1d.... presents an even greater
threat to the free world now than in Stalin’s time.”
Especially since the Russians stress heavily the
value of distance when conjoined to the initiative.
The Atomic Present
WHEN Sir William Penney, chief of Britain’s
Atomic Energy Research Establishment, demon-
strated to Sydney pressmen the effect of a luminous
watch on a geiger-counter his avowed purpose was
to convince them that they “had been living with
radiation all their lives” and that radioactivity in
small doses was not necessarily dangerous. Although
this reassurance shouldn’t be necessary to a genera-
tion that thinks nothing of having its jaws X-rayed
for signs of dental decay or its feet X-rayed for a
shoe-fitting, the widespread publicity given to
reports of, radioactivity in Western Queensland after
the last Monte Bello tests shows the misconcep-
tions that exist on the subject.
Most people are prepared to accept the
generality that we are living in an Atomic Age.
but are extremely hazy about the implications of
such a statement. In thinking, talking and writing
of matters atomic there has been too great a
tendency to resort to superlatives. This has resulted
in a distorted picture of both the peaceful and
warlike uses of atomic power, in the former case
giving rise to a belief in the possibility of produc-
ing unlimited power at fantastically low cost and
in the latter of the building of ever bigger-’n’-better
bombs until the limit is reached with one capable
of vaporising the entire world. Not the least of the
tasks confronting nuclear scientists is that of giving
public thinking a proper perspective in regard to
their work.
In his Sydney chat Penney probably had in
mind the specific chore of forestalling the rumors
and alarms which on earlier precedents are bound
to follow next month’s atomic-weapons tests at
Maralinga. Professor E. W. Titterton, of the
Nuclear Physics Department at the Australian
National University, Canberra, in Facing the
Atomic Future (F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.), tackles
the broader problem of educating the public on
the possibilities and probabilities of atomic energy
in peace and war. His book is addressed to the
“intelligent layman,” that unfortunate individual
who is sandwiched in between the unintelligent
layman and the unintelligent specialist, possessing
neither the comfortable ignorance of the one nor
the useful technical equipment of the other.
Intelligent laymen who turn to Titterton’s book
for enlightenment will not be disappointed. He
neither talks down to them nor attempts to dazzle
them with unnecessary technical jargon. He splits
an atom, exposing its protons, neutrons and
electrons in all their nakedness, and explains how
the controlled misbehavior of these components can
be unleashed for destruction or harnessed for useful
service. From there he proceeds to the use of
radioactive products in medicine, biology,
chemistry, metallurgy, agriculture and general
industry. These modem maids-of-all-work can
measure tinplate to an accuracy of a hundred-
thousandth of an inch; trace leaks in underground
pipes or cables; detect a single tablet missing from
a sealed packet of aspirin; prevent wilt in tomatoes;
control insect-pests in grain-silos.
Then, of course, the atomic bomb. And the
hydrogen-bomb! Both are discussed dispassionately,
without any attempt to gloss over their frightful
possibilities. Professor Titterton believes that
mankind can no longer afford the luxury of war;
that atomic weapons have made it obsolete. But
he stresses that until all nations are united in this
way of thinking it would be folly for the Western
Powers to abandon their experiments or relax their
defences, and equally foolish not to be prepared
for atomic attacks:—
The free world will always be at the dis-
advantage that the date and time of a nuclear
attack would be decided by an enemy. It is
imperative, therefore, that we be able to absorb it,
retaliate immediately in strength and be able to
continue the fight even with most of our cities in
ruins.... This is a grim picture indeed, but nothing
is gained by efforts to conceal it; on the contrary,
it is the duty of every citizen of the democracies
to understand the position and face it squarely,
for drastic measures will be necessary if we are to
alleviate it and organise for survival in the case of
all-out nuclear warfare.
At the moment most readers will probably be
more interested in atomic problems less catastrophic
than all-out nuclear war. Do atomic-bomb tests
affect the weather? Is there a risk in having a
nuclear power-station near a city? What is the
degree of risk in atomic-bomb tests? Can radio-
activity affect future generations? Can nuclear
reactors explode?
Answering the last question first:—
Nuclear reactors are among the safest of
power-sources. . . .They are extremely sluggish and
conservative systems, and a reactor (has not yet been
designed which, if it should blow-up, could yield
an explosion more violent than its equivalent
weight of T.N.T.; in other words, a nuclear
reactor cannot explode like an atomic bomb.
The real danger, says the Professor, is the possi-
bility of the release of gaseous and other fission
products, but the system can be designed to prevent
extensive damage in such circumstances; “correct
perspective is reached when it is realised that any
nuclear reactor is safer than the petrol-storage
tanks on the outskirts of a large city.” He sums-up
that slow-neutron gas-cooled reactors can never
explode. “Fast” reactors are not so safe. For that
reason they must for the present be built in isolated
areas, and safety-devices must be incorporated to
guard against mishaps.
Atom tests and the weather? The energy
released in a fission-weapon explosion is small
compared with natural phenomena. A normal
thunderstorm releases as much energy as thirteen
atomic bombs; even a hydrogen-bomb merely adds
“one rather small depression in the atmosphere”;
and
an earthquake releases about a million times as
much energy as an atomic bomb and roughly a
thousand times as much energy as the biggest
hydrogen-bomb explosion ever likely to be made.
No final word can yet be given, but meteoro-
logical checks in Britain and America have so far
failed to establish any connection between atomic
explosions and climatic effects.
On the subject of danger from the bomb-tests,
Titterton stresses, as Penney did, that radiation is
always with us, and that the increase in jadio-
activity due to the tests is not sufficiently large to
cause alarm. Measurements taken in the United
Kingdom indicate that “the additional dose from
all the atomic and hydrogen bombs so far exploded
is approximately 1000 times less than the natural
background dose.”
However, the long-term genetic effects of an
all-out nuclear war involving the explosion of a
large number of hydrogen-bombs is a matter which
calls for much more concern and study.
Professor Titterton has no doubts whatever
that nuclear energy will become the world’s major
source of electric power, a development made
necessary by the increasing depletion-rate of fuel-
reserves. It will not replace them suddenly but
will come gradually into use to supplement existing
power-stations of orthodox design.
There are limits to the utilisation of solar heat
and of water- and wind-power; the fossil-fuels (coal,
oil and natural gas) will be exhausted within a few
centuries. Uranium and thorium, on the other
hand, could keep our wheels turning for 50,000
years. Most intelligent laymen would probably
consider that sufficient margin for peace of mind-
Not so Professor Titterton. He merely regards it
as a breathing-space —“time in which to attempt
to control thermonuclear reactions, which would
make energy available by building heavier matenals
from hydrogen, as is done in the stars, or develop
means of utilising the sunlight more effectively,
possibly through the process of photosynthesis. ,


THE RUBAIYAT OF OMAR FADDEN
“There was a door to which I found no key;
There was a veil past which I could not see:
Some little talk awhile of me and thee
There seem ' d—and then no more of thee and me!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Suez Juris
Nobody envies Mr. Menzies his job or
leading the committee which is to bargain
with Nasser over Suez, despite the fact
that he has the opinion of the civilised
world behind him.
Out of the 22 nations represented at
the London conference all but four —the
Soviet Union, India, Indonesia and
Ceylon—concurred with what is called the
Dulles plan, a plan formulated by Britain,
France and the U.S.; also the minority
Shepilov- Men on plan. Nasser has agreed
to a meeting.
Mr. Menzies is to lead a five-man
committee with its other representatives
from the United States, Sweden,
Abyssinia and Persia. If the situation
were left to be managed by the countries
really interested—the owners of the
canal territory and the users of the canal
—there is little doubt but that there would
be a good chance of a settlement. But
it becomes plainer every moment that
the Kremlin, so soft, so purring, so
apparently conciliatory over the past year,
has actually bpen hoodwinking the world
while it cooked-up a plan to force the
present situation and snatch the Arab
world, with the canal and Middle
Eastern oil, securely into its zone.
It was building-up Nasser in the Com-
munist press for two months before his
move to grab the canal, this despite the
fact that he is a despot like Hitler, whose
badge he has adopted and whose Mein
Kampf he has parodied in a work which
is now compulsory reading in the
Egyptian schools.
The Russian delegate to London,
Comrade Shepilov, has, in fact, not merely
differed with the rest of the world that
matters at the conference. He has used
the bribe of Russian help to Egypt
and the Arab world not to come to agree-
ment, even to the point of offering almost
definite aid if any European force should
be used against the Egyptians.
That Moscow’s attitude to the canal
is dishonest is proved by the stand of its
delegates in the U.N.O. Security Council
two years ago—Khrushchev and his
present team were then in office. Their
representative on the Council, Vishinsky,
said on March 29, 1954: —
The principle of free navigation laid
down by the Convention of Constantinople
must, of course, be respected. But adoption
of measures to ensure free navigation
is a matter for States which signed the
convention and not for a chance group of
States. Such States as China, for example,
Brazil, Colombia, Denmark or New
Zealand are not directly concerned with
that convention since they were not
signatories to it.
Now Moscow has demanded that 22
countries, including China, not repre-
sented in London should have a finger
in the pie, and complains loudly that
U.N.O. has been bypassed “in a manner
which cannot be considered normal under
existing conditions.”
Yet, in his 1954 speech, Vishinsky
asked “by what warrant does the Security
Council assume the right to settle prob-
lems which it is not competent to settle
even within the meaning of the 1888
convention? The proper method is direct
negotiation between interested parties.”
It seems obvious that Moscow is try-
ing to use the situation to involve the
Western world in war with the Arab
countries either to give it a pretext to
descend with the Red Army on the
Middle East or to force the West to send
large forces to the Middle East, leaving
northern Europe and Malaya at Russian
mercy.
Another Premiers*
Conference?
There seems to be general agreement
among the Premiers that another confer-
ence on economic problems should be
held within the next few weeks. The
idea is that all Governments, State and
Federal, will by then have presented their
Budgets, so all will have a better picture
of the overall position. They will also
not be inhibited by a desire to keep their
precise financial position secret till
Budget-night, as they possibly were at
the last conference. Moreover, the Prime
Minister should by then be back in Aus-
tralia and the matter of defence commit-
ments should be less obscure.
A prerequisite for success of a second
conference would be a willingness on the
part of some of the parties to modify the
stand they took at the last one. This may
be easier of accomplishment than it
would have been at the end of the other
powwow.
The five States which plumped for
price-control are not rushing headlong
into elaborate controls. Queensland and
South Australia already had a few items
under control and Tasmania has re-
imposed rent-control. In N. S. Wales
Cahill is lukewarm on the subject, but
is expected to make a token move this
week. He says his Government doesn’t
believe in price-controls merely for the
sake of having them, and he feels that
controls are ineffective unless imposed by
the Commonwealth. “But some steps will
have to be taken as a gesture by this
State to show we are interested in arrest-
ing the inflationary trend.” He indicated
that controls might be imposed on some
items in the “C”-series index. He added
that at the Premiers’ conference it had
been suggested that potatoes should be
taken out of the index-regimen because
they were so dear that many people
weren’t buying them. This suggestion
would have to be considered.
This recognition of a fact which house-
wives discovered through necessity long
ago opens up a new line of thought. If
a “Labor” Premier can consider trying
to keep the level by relieving
it of elements which make it rise, why
not be completely realistic and relieve the
basic wage of the compulsion to follow
its swing?
Something more is needed from the
N. S. Wales Government (and others)
than a step taken as a “gesture.”
Royal Melbourne's Chief
Sir Victor Hurley was the logical man
to head the inquiry into the mistake
made at the Royal Melbourne Hospital
when an unconscious woman was pro-
nounced dead and taken to the morgue.
He’s the hospital’s president now, but he
has been associated with it since 1910,
and has been off the job at Royal Mel-
bourne only to go to Gallipoli, and, after
another hard-working interval, to become
Air-Vice-Marshal Director of Medical
Services.
Hurley did a magnificent job for the
R.A.A.F., especially in New Guinea,
where he directed the winners in what
the boys in the medical bases called the
Battle of the Mosquito (malaria) and
the Battle of the Fly (dysentery), as well
as other successes that made the
R.A.A.F. in the islands freer of disease
than some parts of the continent. He also
made one of the most notable of all the
B.M-A.’s Federal presidents.
He was having a holiday convalescence
at the seaside, but he soon snapped out
of that when the slight case of death was
reported at the hospital he reveres and
has worked for for so long.
The Squanderers
For unblushing impudence and ineptitude
it would be difficult to match the Cahill
Government and its public utilities.
Only a few months ago it added vastly
to the burden of N. S. Wales taxpayers
by putting up fares and freights on its
railways and city transport by from 33 to
200 per cent. —so much so that residents
across Sydney Harbor, so close that they
can read the neon-signs in the city, have
to pay 2s. to get to the G.P.O. by one of
the worst ferry-tram-bus services in the
world.
Then, during the past week, having
failed to bulldoze the Commonwealth
Government into placing the burden "of
its incompetence on the shoulders of the
whole of the Australian taxpayers, it Has
come down on its own with a new £5-
million land-tax which will hit everybody,
plus a tax on hire-purchase which the
Premier claims will mulct the vendors but
in some mysterious manner not the
customers, the people for whom he pro-
fesses to feel solicitude but for whom his
heart ceases to bleed when they become
his victims and not those of the Com-
monwealth. He might just as well say
that sales-tax comes out of the pockets
of the vendors.
If the N.S.W. Government conserved
its resources, insisted on a fair day’s work
from its employees and aided private
enterprise to employ and to pay good
wages, there might be some sympathy
with it.
But it is obviously a Government which
divides the country into two classes,
preference being given the privileged
gambler, who in the case of its new land-
tax has his racecourses treated preferen-
tially, presumably because if racecourse
costs went up, attendances and State taxes
on gambling might fall off. The house-
and small-business-owner gets no such
consideration because the Government
has to base its operations on expediency.
The Government of N.S.W. has no
sympathy with private enterprise, and it
has no sense of responsibility in regard
to money, the public’s money, when it
lays hands on it.
For instance, it undertook to build the
Glenbawn Dam in the Hunter River
Valley, largely on the excuse that it
would irrigate large areas and prove a
factor in flood-prevention. The original
cost-estimate was £1,500,000 when it was
started in 1946, and it was expected to
take three years. It is now 10 years on
the way, having employed between 800-
900 men a year, and it is still two or three
years away from completion. It seems
certain —huge damage having been done
by floods in the meantime —that it will
not serve a tithe of the purposes for
which it was supposedly built. It looks
as if, taking the impact of recent price-
and wage-rises and inevitable future rises
into consideration, that it will cost up to
£l4 million, and it is only one of several
enterprises in the list which Mr. Cahill
is bleeding the whole Australian revenue
to keep going.
Man at Work
Sir Dallas Brooks was 60 last week, and
the Victorian Cabinet put on a State
luncheon in his honor. As John Cain,
the then Premier, pointed out when the
Governor’s term was extended to October,
1957, he and Lady Brooks have become
part of the life of the State.
For the first time in more than a
century the most-photographed man in
the State is the Governor, and almost
every other day there are pictures in the
papers of him in action, from opening
Parliament in state to playing ping-pong
at the opening of an obscure welfare-
hall in an industrial suburb.
He was the first Governor to attend a
meeting of Melbourne Trades Hall
Council; the first to throw open Govern-
ment House to children (his last annual
garden-party for children was attended
THURSDAY'S CHlLD—
page 74.
by 3000); the first to go down to the
wharves and see working conditions for
wharfies.
He has the English flair for dignity on
appropriate occasions and a genuine
informality off-duty; but visitors to
Government House are likely to be sur-
prised to find him opening the door to
them; he directly answers the telephone
sometimes, and those expecting him the
next day are likely to get a call the night
before announcing, “Dallas Brooks here.
Now exactly what is happening
tomorrow?” It isn’t surprising, however,
in view of his Royal Marines back-
ground.
Unlike some of his predecessors, the
Governor gets about, particularly in the
country, and constantly asks to meet more
and varied people. He is, without doubt,
the most popular Governor in Victorian
history, and all the political parties in the
State House are hesitant about a change.
The Governor has made his office
a popular reality again by the simple
example of a man at work.
Cahill's "Priorities"
In Newcastle (N.S.W.), though trades-
people dealing with the hospital there
have been complaining that the institution
owed them about £104,000, the Govern-
ment is putting up a nurses’ home in the
main shopping street at a cost of about a
million. It proposes to fit-out the bottom
story as shops to compete with the tax-
payers on whom its extra land-tax will
fall. The Government’s Rural Bank has
bought the site of a hotel on the corner
opposite the post-office in the same street
and intends to erect a bank building.
A few hundred yards away are to be
seen the shabby, ill-equipped wharves of
the Newcastle port, fitted with equip-
ment that belongs to the year 1900 and
described by Mr. Purdue, M.L.A., as
“antiquated, obsolete and money-eating.”
Yet the Government has refused to put
in a coal-loading plant to cost £750,000 —
refused even to accept £750,000 from the
mine-owners to put one in, presumably
because Mr. Jim Healy and the A.R.U.
wouldn’t like it.
The result is that Gladstone, in
Queensland, which spent £250,000 on
modem conveyor-belt equipment recently,
has captured this year’s contract for
300,000 tons of coal from the Victorian
Electricity Commission. Within the first
six months of the present year Victoria
and South Australia have gone to Central
Queensland, 700 miles beyond Newcastle,
for 246,000 tons because Gladstone’s
modernised plant gives the Queenslanders
an advantage which outweighs the addi-
tional length of sea-haul. Central Queens-
land interests are just now in process of
bargaining to export 1,000,000 tons of
coal to England.
But the N.S.W. Government, which
will spend to the limit on a multitude of
queer, unfinished “works” and which
regards poker-machines as commendable
so long as they yield tax, will do nothing
to produce quicker tum-round of ships
and cheaper handling because the Com-
munists and some of their union friends
wouldn’t approve. There is no other
valid reason in sight.
It is time the Commonwealth examined
N. S. Wales expenditure and cracked
down on it.
Japan and Russia
“Mugga Way” : In an “indivisible world”
Australians should be watching with some
interest the current negotiations between
Japan and Russia for a peace-treaty,
which involve the sovereignty of two
islands off the northern coasts of Japan
and the detention of many thousands of
Japanese in Russian hands.
The issue concerns us far less directly
than Suez, admittedly, but it has under-
tones related to the present and future
policies of our past enemy and of our
former ally which deserve thought. The
Japanese Government has just circulated
in selected quarters in Australia its version
of the Moscow talks conducted between
the Japanese Foreign Minister, Shige-
mitsu, and his Russian opposite-number,
Shepilov, and their staffs, which suggests
that solution will not be easy. More
importantly, perhaps, the statements
illustrate once again the impact of agree-
ments made in war-time, including the
fateful Yalta talks at which Roosevelt’s
agreement with the Russians concerning
their gains if they entered the war against
Japan has resulted in a grim shift in the
balance-of-power in the north Pacific.
The Japanese admit that the Potsdam
declaration, made after the end of
hostilities in Europe but before the sur-
render of Japan, declared that Japanese
sovereignty would be limited after the
war to “such islands as the Allied
Powers shall determine,” but they claim
that no such determination has ever been
made by the Allied . Powers. They make
no claim for recovery of South Sakhalin
or the Kuriles, but they are emphatic that
the islands of Etorofu arid Kunashiri are
integral parts of Japanese territory, which
before the war had more than 10,000
Japanese settlers. They protest vigorously
against the Russian assertion that the
Yalta agreement gave these islands and
other territory to Russia.
That agreement, the Japanese say, was
only a document wherein the Soviet, the
U.S. and Britain set forth their common
purposes of war. It did not formally
determine territorial disposition, and “still
less does it bind Japan, which had nothing
to do with it.” On the vexed subject of
“detainees,” the Japanese have protested
at the Russian view that this can be
discussed only after a peace-treaty is
signed.
The discussions show r -up the results
which can flow from war-time agree-
ments. They should also form an
interesting background for the future
policies in Asia of the two nations, and
thus on could later
affect Australia closely.
Snapshots of Suez
“Mac Hoots”: One of my favorite
dreams —of course, I never tell them to
anyone who has read The Psycho-
pathology of Everyday Life —is of being
on the decks of a great liner which is
whizzing with remarkable speed over dry'
land: through leafy lanes, over the pad-
docks ; even once, most excitingly, right
through the middle of Sydney, down
George-street.
/ I never could make out where, except
from some no doubt disgraceful depths
of my psychology, I had got the
trappings for this enchanted voyage,
until, not long ago, I found myself in
a waking moment sailing through the Suez
Canal.
And there, of course, it was: cutting
along that narrow ditch through the
fragile strip of green where there is, 1
believe, irrigation, past oil-tanks shining
silver in the distance, past odd clumps
of buildings where officials and
lived, past the hideous khaki-colored
mountains, and, most of the time, with
the liner towering so high above it that
the water was lost and you really seemed
to be sailing over dry land—very dry
indeed —passing through that heat-
blasted yellow wilderness of the desert. • •
I had been through it years before, in
(I Continued, on next page)


the honorable capacity of Third Purser
(singular) on the Largs Bay; but that is
another story.
So many people have seen the canal,
and in the tremendous circumstances of
war, that a mere tourist’s notes on it
hardly seem worth setting-down; yet
there are one or two memories of it
that, just now, I recall with peculiar
interest.
One is of some British soldiers, not
far up from Aden, playing cricket: the
temperature —dry, scorching heat even
when we went ashore to shop and see
the oasis and the Old Town at dawn—
was about 115. They were so close that
we could watch the bowling from the
ship. They looked as crazy as the
Englishman is always supposed to be ;
and, after the squalid lassitude of
Colombo a few days before —poverty,
sores, beggars, fungus, mould, stink —
they looked magnificent.
One of the soldiers, who was
swimming in the canal, nearly drowned
himself as we passed. The liner was
huge, and what water was left at her
sides she sucked up and swept along
with her. Whirling in this current, half
in the water and half out, clutching
frantically at the cobbled bank, the soldier
kept us company ; his cobbers running
along after him. He was very nearly
one of those casual, meaningless tragedies
of the Army when there is no war on;
but they fished him out somehow.
We came near enough to drowning a
Gyppo, too. He had pulled his flat-
bottomed barge or scow or whatever it
was halfway up the bank to get out of
our road, and then we swamped him
and left him floundering and cursing.
But the representatives of Egyptian
civilisation who spring most vividly to
memory are a dozen or 20 of them,
poor, ragged, emaciated wretches, roped
to a barge like slaves of the Pharaohs,
hauling it along the canal —in that heat!
Those, and that other enigmatic soul
who manifested himself squatting on a
bollard.
Our ship—as happens pretty often in
the canal —got herself stuck on a sand-
bank towards dusk; slewed sideways,
and, amidst shouting and running from
the crew, looked as if she were going to
give us every chance to walk ashore . . .
if there was anywhere to walk to. Though
we had company enough—2o, or it may
have been 50 ships, mostly oil-tankers,
piled-up behind us as far as the eye
could see —the sands began to look
rather too sandy; miles and miles of
beggar-all, as we (almost) say in Aus-
tralia ; not a particularly nice place to
spend the night, with the Gyppos said
to be in one of their tantrums again.
It was then that the bird on the bollard
manifested himself. I don’t think he had
come to watch us; he seemed to have
been there all day; for weeks, for all I
knew. Wrapped up in some sort of
skirt, a bundle of Egyptian humanity, he
was just there; squatting on an iron
bollard in the dusk, miles from any-
where, watching the canal. He could, I
suppose, have been yearning for the day
when Colonel Nasser would take over
that slender, dreamlike waterway, kick
out the British soldiers and be personally
responsible for the ships stuck in the
sand; but I really think he just liked
squatting on a bollard.
POLITICAL POINTS
The London conference on Suez
showed that at least 17 of the 22 countries
represented believe that big and middle-
sized Powers still have some rights in a
world obsessed with the rights of small
Powers.
• •
This is Budget week in Sydney and
Canberra. Cahill will bring down his on
Wednesday night, having already
revealed two of its grim secrets through
a window in caucus. Fadden tells all the
following night.
• •
Those United Nations gentlemen who
are demanding that Australia should set
a target date for granting self-government
to New Guinea should be invited to con-
duct a plebiscite in the upper-Sepik area
where headhunters recently chopped-up
28 members of another tribe.
• •
Mrs. Baulch is one doctor’s mistake
they didn’t bury.
• •
It was a bad day for anti-Anti-Com.
“Labor” in Melbourne last Thursday.
J. G. Williams (Anti-Corn.) tossed the
“official” nominee in a City Council ward,
and the Anti-Corns held the only other
seat they were defending; and that night
Jim Cairns, M.H.R. for Yarra, who
defeated Anti-Corn. Keen at the last
election, got into a tiff at Richmond
polling-booth and was arrested. He was
charged with assault, with assaulting a
policeman and with having resisted arrest.
Bail was fixed at £5. Before becoming
an economist and an M.H.R. Cairns was
a detective.
• •
William Lane’s New Australia project
in Paraguay ended in dismal failure, but
after a lapse of 60 years the attempt is
to be emulated (without the Socialist
trappings) by the people of Numakuma,
Japan. This town of 12,000 people is in
desperate straits through the failure of
the fisheries on which it has always
depended. A few months ago its mayor,
Hideo Kamihara, went to Paraguay,
bought a tract of land and arranged, with
the backing of the Japanese Government,
to shift the complete town to Paraguay.
The first party will leave in October, and
it is planned to have the whole move
completed by the end of next year.
• •
The "Labor” Opposition in the S.A.
Parliament is seeking a Greater Adelaide
on the lines of Greater Sydney and
Greater Brisbane. Playford, quite rightly,
refuses to play, saying that he doubts if
the Opposition really believes in local-
government at all. If it is anything
like Sydney “Labor” it certainly
doesn’t. The policy of “Labor” in N. S.
Wales has been to take the local out of
local-government and build-up Greater
Thises and Greater Thats, to become
creatures of the A.L.P. executive. Under
this system the ratepayers who provide the
revenue for the Sydney City Council have
virtually no say in the election of the
council, their voices being swamped by
the representatives of the industrial
suburbs, picked by the State executive and
elected by the regimented “Labor” vote.
If that’s what Adelaide wants it will go
ahead with the Opposition’s plan. But if
it wants to retain true local-government,
it should resist the move, tooth and nail.
• •
Nasser is reported to have suggested
that Egypt should be allowed to become
“a second Switzerland.” But what Swiss
Prime Minister ever acted like Nasser?
• •
Sounds like a miracle, but athletes from
West and East Germany will compete as
a united German team at the Olympic
Games in Melbourne. Political discus-
sion between the two factions has been
banned.
• •
N.S.W. Local Government Minister
Renshaw told Parliament that more than
one-third of the total amount of claims
for injurious affection under the Cumber-
land County Council scheme has been
lodged by the brewing industry. It seems
that greenbelts and beer-gardens don’t
mix.
• •
Several would-be M.P.s, including a son
of Archie Cameron, are seeking the L.C.L.
nomination for Barker. The by-election
will most likely be a three-cornered con-
test. The A.L.P. is calling for nomina-
tions and the Anti-Communist Labor
party is also putting up a candidate.
• •
When the Commonwealth withdrew
from the land-tax field Fadden esti-
mated that it meant a loss of £6i million
in revenue. That was for the whole of
the Commonwealth. Cahill’s new tax is
designed to bring in £s| million from
landowners in N. S. Wales.
Owners of city property will be badly
hit. The Valuer-General has recently
jacked-up the values to a level far above
that of 1952, when Federal land-tax
was last paid. Municipal councils have
taken this into consideration in fixing
the annual rate, but the Water Board
hasn’t. Nor has Cahill in determining
the rate of his land-tax, which will be
the highest in Australia.
• •
As a sequel to the Lands Inquiry
debate in the Queensland Assembly
REARING TO GO!
Opposition-leader Nicklin proposed a
motion dissenting from the Speaker’s
ruling that Treasurer Walsh could discuss
Mr. Justice Philp “as a witness.” It was
a duty motion, proposed without expec-
tation of success. With members voting
on party lines it was lost 42-21.
• - •
Financier lan Potter, back from a four-
months checkover of financial conditions
round the world, reports that he found
Australia’s standing abroad high; its
long-term prospects in world-finance
extremely good; short-term prospects
faced with a few difficulties, none of them
insuperable. At present, he says, there
doesn’t seem to be much scope for
interesting private capital abroad in Aus-
tralia. “Australians must be encouraged
to save more.” In other words develop-
ment can only be financed out of our
own savings or someone else’s savings.
No one else is prepared to stake us at the
moment, so it’s up to us.
• •
“P.W.R.”: The Bulletin asks what has the
Cahill Government to boast of when, after 15
years of “Labor” rule, N. S. Wales has the
lowest birthrate of all Australian States and
the highest deathrate. It would seem that
the present astronomical high cost of living,
in N.S.W. in particular, probably curtails the
output of infants, while the paucity of the
age-pension ensures a steady increase in the
deathrate. For this sorry state of affairs the
community as a whole must share the blame, but
the Administrations, both State and Federal, are
principally at fault.
All very well, but Federal policy, for
good or ill, affects all States uniformly,
except insofar as it is counteracted by
State policy. The Bulletin repeats,
“What has the Cahill Government to
boast of?”
• »
“Stromlo”: Replying to protests from
pensioners and others against the deletion
of certain drugs, including liver-extract,
from the list of pharmaceutical benefits,
Health Minister Cameron explains that
the advisory committee of doctors and
pharmacists accepts the view of expert
medical opinion that the active con-
stituent of liver, known as vitamin 812,
is more efficacious than liver-extract. It
has therefore been included as a
“benefit.” Folic acid, another constituent
of liver-extract, is provided for another
type of anaemia, and in the case of
pensioners’ preparations it is available
for the treatment of all types of- anaemia.
• •
N.S.W. State executive of the A.L.P. —
the new one set up by the Federal
executive —got very serious about
membership on Friday night. It expelled
Alan Manning, a member of the sacked
executive and three times a candidate for
the Federal seat Lawson. The charge was
that he had published anti-Labor propa-
ganda. Manning declared that his
expulsion was unconstitutional and that
he refused to recognise it.
At the same meeting four members of
the Ironworkers’ Federation who had
been suspended for having allowed their
names to be included on a “unity” ticket
at a union election were readmitted.
They were sternly warned that if they did
it again they’d be expelled. The threat
was rather rich; on most points of
Federal policy the party could put itself
on a unity ticket with the Communists
without having to alter a line.
• •
In the Queensland Parliament they’re
still arguing whether the State electoral
boundaries are rigged in favor of “Labor”
or the Federal boundaries in favor of Libs
and Cockies. In the Assembly “Labor”
has 49 seats against a combined Liberal
and Country-party tally of 24 ; in the
Reps the corresponding figures are five
and 13. Even without a change of
boundaries it would be very interesting
to see a Queensland election conducted
on Federal rolls. All other States use ’em.
• •
For the first time in history, electricity
on a large scale will be supplied from a
nuclear-power station to a national elec-
tricity-network when the Queen opens the
Calder Hall station on October 17. First
step in the start-up of the station was
taken on May 22, when sufficient uranium
had been loaded for chain-reaction to
take place, making the first pile self-
sustaining. The British programme
envisages 12 atomic-power stations in the
next ten years, at a cost of £A375 million,
apart from two stations concerned
primarily with the military programme.
• •
\
“Mugga Way”: If the Prime Minister
returns with new ideas on defence, which
seems likely, the Cabinet reshuffle now
pending may become a major operation.
Canberra pundits feel he will stick to the
present State representation, which will
probably mean that a competent Vic-
torian, Senator Gorton, will go into the
Ministry in place of Spicer, now C.J. of
the new Commonwealth Industrial
Court. In the case of N.S.W., the
impending departure of Eric Harrison
may mean promotion for Fairbaim, or
Howse, or Wheeler. The reallocation of
portfolios will be the important thing,
with the defence functions under a
scrutiny which will not be lessened by
the disclosures recently of the secretary
of the Defence Department, Sir Fred.
Shedden. Primary Industries may rise
from the Ministry to Cabinet status; so
may Supply. Customs may begin its
slide to become, like taxation, merely an
appendage of Treasury. For Attorney-
General the choice is believed to lie
between Supply Minister Beale and
Liberal back-bencher Joske, both of
them Q.C.s.
• •
Naturalisation figures for 1955-56 were
a record; 29,105 new citizens took-out
their papers. Poles headed the list with
4460, and there were 2933 Hungarians,
2448 Italians, 2119 Czechs, 1999 Yugo-
slavs, 1977 Latvians, 1380 Dutch and 1111
Ukrainians. At the rate applications are
reaching the department the figure should
be considerably higher this year.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
/~\NE of the saddest Poppas in Sydney
lost' his hat in a great wind down a
dark lane when he went to change the
library-books, and arriving home reported
the loss with resignation, saying that he’d
used-up a box of matches, but no hat.
His wife said, well, he’d just have to get
a new hat. He said, well, the old one was
worn-through at the peak. His wife said
yes, and little Raphael would have to wait
a fortnight longer for his new pants. Little
Raphael heard this with proper fortitude,
but was up at the crack of dawn, out on
his bicycle, dp the lane and back with the
hat, crumpled and crushed in addition to
having a hole in the peak, but still Poppa’s
hat; so Poppa still goes to work in his old
hat, and Raphael goes to school in his
new pants.—“ Niobe.”
❖ »> *X*
“Zend Avesta”: Not far from Bris-
bane, on a big housing-project, a Choom
from Tyneside, England, struck up a
friendship with a young chap from
Holland, and began to teach him English.
The Dutchman reciprocated by teaching
his Choom mate Dutch. Alas, the English
the Dutchman speaks is pure Geordie,
and the only person who can understand
him is his teacher! The Dutchman is now
"Nice drying day , Aggie."
taking English-lessons elsewhere and is
urging his Geordie mate to do likewise.
“Sari Bahr” (London): Last week I
gave a taxi-driver a 6d. tip on a Is. 3d.
fare. He looked at it in disgust, saying,
“How can a man live!” Asked if he
would take a 2s. 6d. tip, he said he would
take anything. I put the 2s. 6d. back in
my pocket and turned away. “Good old
Laker!” he said.
<s* <s*
“Fairf”: The new high-school in our
town was officially opened by the
Governor-General, and the primary-
school pupils were marched across the
road to witness the junketings.- My six-
year-old niece said that night: “1 didn’t
like the Governor’s car much ; it wasn’t
a nice shape—all straight-looking.” That
settles it. I won’t buy a Rolls-Royce. A
man wouldn’t want to be seen in a car
that wasn’t a nice shape.
* * *
“F.”: All things considered, perhaps
it’s as well Egypt is abstaining from the
Games. Everyone who was within cooee
of the Middle East in War II knows their
national anthem; and the tune suddenly
produced on a solemn occasion by a
massed band of 200—an Army band —
might prove too much for enthusiasts.
The thought of a thousand bar-room
baritones joining-in is attractive—but, of
course, it wouldn’t have done; Egypt
might have declared war on Melbourne;
and the Army words might have shocked
Mr. Brundage. It begins:
Oh, we’re all black s
And we dearly love our King,
Int’a kwis, kwis k’teer
Mungaree bar din
and a more printable part of the chorus
goes:—
Oh, Farida, gibbit backsheesh,
Oh, Farida, mungaree-ee maaleesh.
She’s the Queen of all the Wogs,
All the jackals and the dogs,
Int’a kwis, kwjs k’teer
Mungaree bar din....
❖ ❖ ❖
“Chesterfield”: Let us hold up for
our children’s emulation the politeness
of the woman who came to life in Mel-
bourne City Morgue, who asked as they
put her into the ambulance, and as
though hesitating to appear so rude as
to seem to contradict anyone: “Am I
dead?”
❖ ❖ *:♦
“Mugga Way”: For my money I’d
avoid the letter-receiver to be opened on
the summit of Mt. Kosciusko, a bleak
place, on Christmas Eve next. It will be
open only during the summer touring-
season, up to February 28, and the mail
will be nicely endorsed with words
including “the roof of Australia,” and
“height 7308 ft above sea-level.” Suppose
the idea will appeal to stamp-collectors—
I remember a similar thing 12,000 ft. up in
the Rockies.
* * ❖
“Sparks”: In a Brisbane court the
husband said he was born in England and
“Hush, Tommy, children should be seen and not heard."
had met his Egyptian-born wife while on
a holiday in France. They married in
Australia, the best man being a Spanish
acquaintance, and then his wife worked
as interpreter for the Italian Consul. He
wanted a divorce because his wife pre-
ferred to live with the best man.
“Nobs”: Sydney’s cinemas and news-
reel-theatrettes advertise air-conditioning
in summer (“You’ll be as cool as a
cucumber inside”) and warmth in winter
(“Come in out of the cold”). The half-
baked spring and autumn seasons leave
them indecisive. But now as our continent
resumes the sun our hosts proffer, along
with spine-chilling flicks, theatres that
are “scientifically heated” or “comfort-
ably warm.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ex-Ped.”: It would be just as profit-
able for “Galah” (B. 1/8/’56) to look for
seed-wheat in the lucerne-paddock as to
search for the “neglected positives” of
“askance” and “akimbo,” which are not
negative words. In words of Old English
derivation the prefix “a” means “at,” “in”
or “on.” “Akimbo” is a corruption of
“at keen bow”—at a sharp angle.
“Askance” is related to “askew” and
“a-slant.” The marks made by an ordin-
ary pencil are “delible” or “deleble,” and
the opposite of “ruthless” is not “ruth”
but “ruthful.” “Dignant” is not listed in
my dictionaries, but there does not seem
to be any good reason for its rejection
when “dignation” is accepted.
❖ ❖ , ♦>
“Hoofit”: The Blue Mountains are
justifiably blue: From my station,
second-class return-fare to Sydney has
risen by 45 per cent, and first-class, which
all who wish to sit the two-hour journey
must pay, just over 65 per cent. Women’s
yearly tickets are up by 180 per cent.
Ned couldn’t afford to ride again on
Joe’s trains; he’d take an office-job
pricing the tickets.
■*s* ♦+♦ ♦J*
“Kenyas”: The authorities of a church
school decided that the boy-boarders
might be treated to a film of an improving
nature every Saturday night. After the
first show I asked the housemaster the
name of the uplifting picture. I’m not
sure if his answer surprised me: “ ‘She
Has What It Takes!”’
♦♦♦
“Derwent”: The old convict-settlement
of Port Arthur (Tas.) echoed to the
stirring strains of a military band for the
first time since 1860 when the band of the
Royal Military College at Duntroon put
on a concert for 400 people. The last
band to play there was that of the Suffolk
Regiment of the British Army, to which
500 convicts listened, nearly 100 years
ago. Representatives from Launceston’s
12th Infantry Battalion, which is allied to
the Suffolk Regiment, were present with
the Duntroon band, and after the per-
formance the C.O. presented a scroll to
the Warden of the Municipality as a token
of commemoration of the historic event.
Speeches at the ceremony were recorded,
to be forwarded to the regiment In
England.
♦> <♦
“Henham”: “You’ll bring down GotTi
justice on you if you use language like
that,” I rebuked my 12-year-old daughter.
“What about you?” she said. “You say
it!” “Yes,” I conceded, “I’ll need to
watch my step.” “Don’t worry, Dad,”
said her teenage sister. “After all, you’re
His right-hand man, aren’t you?”
♦l* »>
“Jon Lyn”: All this judo at Sydney
University that has been receiving so
much publicity reminds me to ask,
“D’you do judo?” before venturing even
the mildest pass at any girl, or, if she
appears the studious University type, to
ask, “Do you believe in Platonic love?”
And mean it.
“Zend Avesta”: Took home a pound of
sausages with “plastic skins,” put half
in the pan, stabbed ’em with a fork and
left ’em to fry in their own juice—that’s
the way I’ve always cooked snorks. But
the plastic masterpieces quickly developed
hard and blackened skins, and although
I stabbed frantically at ’em with the folk,
the skins got harder and blacker. Final
result, black and woebegone objects which
would have turned the stomach of a
station dog. I told the bloke at the
snork-shop. “Don’t try and cook them
in their own juice,” he said. “Stick
plenty of fat in the pan. Yum, yum,
lovely! ” I did as instructed, but with no
better result. Worse, in fact. This may
be the plastic age, but surely it’s about
time sausage-lovers closed their ranks
and shouted in unison, “To hell with
plastic skins!”
A/ffOST that is written on child
delinquency seems a little one-sided
to me. However sordid his home-life, a
child must attend school, and therefore
have recourse to some benevolent
authority. And for every delinquent
there are thousands of children who,
living in equally turbulent or neglectful
homes, never commit a crime worse than
breaking a window with a mishit
cricket-ball. It’s these children who
should be publicised, fussed-over and
analysed to see what makes them tick.
If they had half the sympathy and atten-
tion that is lavished on dreary little
delinquents maybe there’d be fewer of
the latter. It was a schoolteacher who
told of an angel-child in her class who
suddenly, for no apparent reason,
developed into an uncontrollable little
horror. The teacher remonstrated with
her, gently at first, and then severely;
the child at length sobbed, “Well, Miss,
you only bother with the baddies!”
“Narumee.”
AND SO TO BEDDOES
If there were dreams to sell
What would you buy ?
What price a new hotel
High as the sky,
Raising up Life’s fresh crown
Higher, to shake you down . . . ?
If there were dreams to sell
For the young man and_ gel,
And the crier rang the bell,
What would you buy ?
"A cottage lone and still
With bowers nigh
Would better fill the bill,”
You might reply ;
“Such pearls from Life’s fresh crown
Fain would l shake me 'down
Were dreams to have at will
For any Jack and Jill” —
Yeah ; pigs might fly.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TUST as Australia seems to be establish-
" ing a film-industry the Australian Agri-
cultural Council announces that mink
is not to be imported. And to compete
with Hollywood it must be * mink —or
nothing. It is no use saying that Aus-
tralian actresses look better in nothing
than in mink, or that Australian bunny is
almost as rare as mink ; there can be no
substitute. The council agreed that mink
could be used for a fur-farming industry
“which would in time conserve overseas
funds and might become a dollar-earner
in a small way,” but was told that mink
might attack native birds, game and
poultry. So some of us will continue to
import mink coats, and most of us will
continue to go without. —“Mugga Way.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Geep”: The Yanks think of every-
thing. I received, a couple of weeks after
a birthday, a card from an American
friend ; a multitone job, showing a dozen
golden butterflies rioting among
sprays of pink flowers. Inside
was the usual doggerel, and on
the front was printed, in
elaborate lettering, “Belated
Birthday Greetings.”
❖ ❖
“Bookie’s Dog”: Pertinent
to comment here on migrant-
names in football-teams: In the
Chatsworth Plate at Caulfield,
first and second horses were
ridden by New Australians.
Jan Wakker, from Holland, just
got 200-to-l chance Palm King
home from Match Play, steered
by Peter Bakos, a Hungarian.
“Josmith”: On one of Sydney’s latest
“gusty westerly” days, the peak-hour
traffic pouring out of the city with the
usual congestion at the Bridge, I was in
the traffic-lane farthest to the right, and in
front of me there was a man on a light-
weight motor-bike. A sudden gust took
him amidships. To regain his balance
he swerved violently to the right, and
found himself facing back-to-front and
in the next lane —an incoming one. When
last seen he was proceeding smoothly
back towards the city, no doubt cursing
quietly to himself, or maybe just laughing
hysterically.
“Rimutuka”: Winter, all right! Of the
11 cars parked in one section of Bris-
bane’s sunny Queen-street four bore
N.S.W. number-plates, three Victorian,
and two each South Australia and Tassie!
♦♦♦
“Private Nobs”: In a tight crowd of
men, women and children waiting to
watch a race, he was explaining a
racecourse scrap between two bookies.
“Yair, took off their bags, they did, and
into it. Good stoush, too!” “Yair?
How’d it start?” asked his mate. “Oh,
one fella reckoned the other didn’t have
a father.” “Didn’t have a . . . Oh! ”
❖ ❖
“Bo”: Can retail-trade snobbishness go
further than the practice, almost universal
among stores which use the system, of
coyly covering-up or obliterating the lay-
by label on a parcel on its being taken
out? There seems to be something to
be ashamed of in having an article put
aside to be paid for gradually, and some-
thing more respectable in getting it on
hire-purchase; or so it seemed from a
snippet of conversation I gleaned in the
lift of a department-store: “Oh, her
hubby can’t have much of a job—l just
saw her coming out of the lay-by! ”
“An Chuidh”: What, dear “Geep,” is
wrong with the origin of haggis (B.
8/8/’56)? It is only a highly-spiced
pudding or sausage made from sheep’s
liver and oatmeal. Daresay “Geep” has
eaten lamb’s-fry and porridge for break-
fast—while it’s obvious he has eaten so
much tripe he is beginning to write it. Pipe
in the haggis there, mon !
“Roirp”: You who must see the world
through glass, either dark or rose-colored,
are advised to get new spectacle-frames
now. Increased import-restrictions will
shortly shorten the supply, and Aus-
tralian producers, my optician tells me,
can’t meet the demand. There is no
restriction on the import of raw lens-
material, classified “essential,” but frames
are classified by short-sighted authority
among sporting items! Maybe our
bureaucrats cultivate rhyming slang:
“Where are my fun-and-games?” “Oh,
you mean spectacle-frames?”
“N.”: In a country town I was in
they resented the habit of a solicitor of
calling them by their surnames. I met
a retired English bank-manager on leave
here and he addressed me as “Brown”
all the evening, and I would not have
had it any other way. “Jack” or “Mr.”
would have been impossible from him.
Perhaps they learn it at their public
schools —at the Australian high-school I
went to it would have bought a fight.
❖ *
“M.H.”: Having taken over a class of
40 boys early this year, I soon began to
“And now the Romance Dance—the "Hepcat Bumpa Jivey in
rock-n-roll bop-time."
realise that these 13-year-olds excelled all
others I’d had in 30 years in their free-
dom of spelling. I began keeping a list
of their inventions. Thus: sposed (sup-
posed), neas (knees), cidison (citizen),
easious (easiest), edjercashinal (educa-
tional), vacksene (vaccine), firsed (first),
actel (axle), hornted (haunted), nightraits
(nitrates), altored (altered), opisot
(opposite), dubbel (double), toules (tools),
beetwn (between), forrid (forehead), spird
(spurred), semmy-racer, semmy-tralor,
fiting (fighting), redgemen (regiment),
"I wonder where they're going for their honeymoon ?”
terris (terrace), hore’sback (horseback),
nothen (nothing), lesson (listen) and
matterafact (matter of fact). Here is a
sentence in the style: “They all thort that
the tertels were crabbes.” Lower-grade
phonetics and infant classes of 60 or 70
make the situation look like getting out of
hand. I wonder if teachers in other States
find spelling and composition deteriorat-
ing as do we in Queensland.
♦> ❖
“Ex-Ped.”: “The hoi polloi” (B.
8/ 8 / ’56) has been a target for English-
language purists for many long years.
The English “the” is redundant, hoi
polloi in Greek meaning “the lower
classes.” “The hoi polloi" is as bad as
“the les Miserables,’’ “the il Duce” or
“the der Fuhrer."
❖ ❖
“T.M.”: Seeing an ad. for prefab,
wardrobes £l2 cheaper than anywhere
else, I rushed off, paid for one and
awaited its arrival. It came, and after
half a day’s strenuous labor was in
one piece. Then I noticed that it had
no drawers, shelves or hanging-rack. The
inside was a complete void. Back I went
to the store, to be told that I hadn’t
paid for extras or fittings. By the time
I forked-out for the lot I was £2 more
out-of-pocket than if I’d bought it else-
where. The moral? Never get excited
over “doing it yourself,” and always
read the small black type.
❖
“Maitri”: It wasn’t only in the ’twenties
that hall-pianos (B. 8/8/’56) were
horrible ; plenty are today. In the middle-
forties I was asked by the mayor of a
Sydney council to arrange a concert in his
Town Hall. The arrangements were
superb: excellent publicity, impressive-
looking programmes, and a slap-up
supper for the performers. The piano had
been well tuned, and polished till it
shone ; there was only one snag—it had
no pedals! The pianist was a good sport
and made no fuss, though she said she
didn’t know what to do with her feet.
I could sympathise: after spending most
of my life sitting at a piano, I changed to
a typewriter; it took me months before
I stopped trying to jam my foot down on
the pedal.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Mullum”: Touching the hire-purchase
of locomotives (B. 15/8/’56), it strikes me
that if the N.S.W. Railways had worked
along those lines, repaying the capital cost
as well as interest over a period of years,
they would not be in the mess that they
are now.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Peter Piper”: “S. M- Herald” “For
Sale” column:
Two graves for sale, South Head
cemetery. Best offer. Phone .
Vacant possession?
♦♦♦
“F.A.M.”: Pretty Mrs. X. broke her
plate on the hospital breakfast-toast.
Her courage and patience had made her
a favorite of the hospital staff, who
recognised the fearful nature of the
emergency and rallied round. One of
the Sisters used her day-off to rush the
plate to her own dentist, and Matron
promised to bar the way to all visitors.
But there was a church-congress in town,
attended by the rector of Mrs. X.’s
parish-church, and he came to see her,
and exercised his divine prerogative to
get past Matron. 'Mrs. X., in embarrass-
ment, held a magazine before her face,
but the good man hastened to put her
at ease: “Don’t worry, Mrs. X. I’m used
to looking at ugly women.”
♦♦♦ ❖ *>
“Nunk”: My wife tells me the new
summer hats are oh, so lovely; so I
guess inverted straw cake-tins are here
to stay, though I could wish that what
will go in them were not more feather-
weight than their cooking.
*l* *l* ❖
“Old Cynic”: Can anyone solve a
problem which has puzzled me after
years of reading the social columns: at
what age does a woman retire from "the
“younger set”? My guess is about 50.
-*£
“G.M.”: Regulation - strike by
Hobart’s postal-workers was having the
effect, we were told, of slowing-up the
sorting and delivery of all mail, both
inwards and outwards. Then the
anomalies began to appear. Letters from
England were being delivered in the city
almost as quickly as letters posted on
the same day in the suburbs. I suppose
a refusal-to-take-delivery strike by
addressees wouldn’t do any good?
A FLAMING NUISANCE!
“In the right circumstances, even the most
seeming mild-mannered of men may achieve a
kiss that will burn and sear.”— Women’s
magazine.
There are those who make the claim
That the tender, soft caress
Is the way to win a dame;
Yet far greater their success
If they'd only emulate
My technique: appreciate
That strong-arm love is what she’s
really cravin’.
Sling ’em round and treat 'em rough
And they’ll love it; that’s the stuff!
A session’s better, too, if you’re
unshaven.
This I learned — oh, long ago
From observing on the screen
Muscled he-men who would throw
Fists, with kisses in between :
Woo with biceps firmly flexed,
Soon the damsel you’ve annexed —
And, the memory recurring at this
juncture,
With some modesty I state
My best handiwork to date
Is a squeeze, three busted ribs, and one
lung-puncture !
Yet I never, I confess,
Gave myself an awful fright
With the thought that my caress
Might cause women to ignite.
For it’s one thing to believe
Women’s hearts you cm achieve
Simply bringing to lists of love strong
action,
And another to find you could
Have ingrained in you a good
Degree of uncontrollable calefaction i
Potent is Romance’s lure
For the skilled practitioner;
Yet l feel I must abjure
Its delights without demur.
For I’m sure if I keep on
Chasing Betsy and Yvonne,
Trouble on myself I soon must fasten ;
For should I come to grips
With my incandescent lips,
Inevitably I’ll be charged with arson!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
DIGGERS’ ADVOCATE
Ted Roberts, who retires from the
Legal Service Bureau next month after
a spell of sickness that has kept him away
from his Pitt-street (Sydney) office for
some time, doesn’t conform to the popu-
lar idea of a public servant. Thirty-six-
hour week? He might work 50, 60, any
number of hours in a week (without over-
time) ; when everyone else went home he
would take out his files, and study the
difficult cases. Many sick and injured
Diggers and their widows and children
have cause to be grateful for those
evening vigils.
On Gallipoli with the 2nd Bn. he won
the Military Medal —the first in the bat-
talion, and one of the earliest in the A.I.F.
C. Kenneth Millar, an eyewitness, gives
some particulars:
The Fisherman’s Hut episode was one of
the heroic things that was recorded —•
many were not. Dr. Bean fully describes
what led up to the abandonment of the
ship’s boat and the attempt to rescue the
wounded soldiers therein. The Second
Battalion, in which Ted Roberts was a
stretcher-bearer, was on the extreme left
of the position held when the Turks
attacked on the second day of the Landing.
The position looked down on the flat beach
and the lonely hut and, of course, the
ship’s boat.
The wounded had been there since the
previous day; Ted Roberts and Stan
Carpenter brought them in, under con-
tinuous fire coming and going, over a
distance of 75yds.; several trips:
The citation was made on July 19,
some three months after the happening.
The reason being that our C. 0., Lt.-Col.
G. F. Braund, was killed on the fourth day
and had made no recommendations. How
unlucky can a unit be? Our next big
battle was Lone Pine, and again our C.O.
was killed. I was a corporal at the time,
and was deeply impressed by the action of
these two bearers. Stan Carpenter was
decorated with a D.C.M. at Pozieres —he
received nothing for what he did at Fisher-
man’s Hut. Some years later I wrote an
article for “Reveille,” calling it “Control
Over Fear,” and instanced the action of
Roberts and Carpenter It was blokes
like Ted Roberts and Stan Carpenter that
make me proud to be an Australian.
Ted collected a later “mention” on
Gallipoli and was wounded at Lone Pine ;
at Pozieres a chest-wound put him out of
the war for good. A former State presi-
dent of the R.S.L., with a wide experience
of war-pension matters, he was brought
in by the Commonwealth Attorney-
General’s Department from outside the
public service to head the war-pensions
section soon after the Legal Service
Bureau started.
• «
“Wusslean”: The day before “Jock”
Simmie’s caricature and potted history
appeared in The Bulletin (15/8/’56) he
took on a new and exacting job by accept-
ing election to the presidency of the
Master Builders’ Association of Vic-
toria.. He had been vice-president of this
80-year-old builders’ organisation for the
last couple of years.
# 0
One of the recipients of honorary
degrees at Melbourne’s University
centenary celebrations was John
Gumer Burnell, Doctor of Engineer-
ing in recognition of his contri-
butions to the knowledge and practice
of engineering in Australia. Dr.
Burnell, a Sydney University graduate in
1908, joined the Victorian State Rivers
and Water Supply Commission, and served
with a field-company in France during
World War I, winning the M.C.
and Cr. de G., and at the end
of hostilities was staff-officer to
the chief engineer. For the last
30 years he has been manager
and a director of Thompsons
(Castlemaine), Ltd., of Victoria.
From 1944-55 he was a member
of the council of the University
of Melbourne, and since 1950
has been a trustee of the
National Gallery. For 15 years
he has been president of the
Castlemaine Art Gallery and
president of the Castlemaine
Technical School.
0 0
Along with his wife and 60-
year-old father, a Russian-born
medico, Serge Udovikov, was
handed his naturalisation
papers at a recent ceremony in
Perth. Six years ago he had his
introduction to Westralia in
more painful circumstances.
While with an Antarctic expedi-
tion at Heard Island he was
struck-down by acute appen-
dicitis, and had to ward-off
surgery by self - administered
medical treatment until wireless SOS
brought H.M.A.S. Australia from Mel-
bourne to the rescue. At one stage, it
looked as if he would have to make a stab
at operating on himself. The Australia
brought him to Fremantle, but several
weeks went by before the patient was
strong enough to undergo the operation.
Udovikov took his medical degree at
Kharkov (Russia), and has been working
as a male-nurse at the Heathcote (W.A.)
Mental Hospital, where his wife is also
nursing. He hopes to put in the next
three or four years on refresher-courses
at the new Westralian medical-school.
• . •
Allen William Nash, the N.S.W. police-
man who died of honorable wounds in
Wollongong hospital last week, was told
of his promotion from senior constable
to sergeant by Police Commissioner
Delaney before the end. He was 40, came
from the central-western town of Parkes,
and had served in three metropolitan
police-districts before going to Port
Kembla. Delaney says a recommendation
will probably be made for a posthumous
award of the Gedrge Medal.
• *
Director of Australian Army music
since 1951, Major R. A. Newman, a
graduate of Kneller Hall, is preparing the
music for 76 national anthems to be
played by the massed Army band of 200
which will begin rehearsing in October
for the Olympic Games. The massed
band will need 168 pieces of music for
each anthem —a total of 12,768 band-
parts, of which Major Newman has com-
pleted 45 anthems or 7560 band-parts.
• •
H. Salter, for many years youngest
health-inspector of the Perth City Council,
is now chief health-inspector. Service
with the council broken in 1941, when he
joined the R.A.A.F. as one of the four
war-time hygiene-officers for the Com-
monwealth. He was the only h.-o. to
attain the rank of Squadron-Leader.
A. A. ROBINS, secretary of the Mining
Managers' Association of Broken Hill
since 1941.
Sydneysider John Stanley Haddin goes
on the board of Daniel Scott Industries,
Ltd. (Melbourne), filling the place of
John Trevorrow, who passed on late last
year. Haddin also becomes chairman of
Richard Wildridge and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
dairy-engineers, and a director of Wilac
Engineering Pty., Ltd., refrigeration-
engineers. He’s already deputy-chairman
of Horlicks, and for over 20 years was
a director of Dairy Farmer Co-op. Milk
Co., of which his father was a founder.
Some years back Haddin was the efficient
manager of the Camden Park Estate
Company, Sydney’s biggest milk-supplier,
and he has owned some good properties
himself in different parts of the State.
• •
Thirty - year - old American pianist
Eugene Istomin, brought here for a 16-
weeks tour by the A.8.C., is the son of
Russian professional singers who fled
their native land during the Revolution.
At six months he began to drop ga-ga
talk in favor of humming, in true pitch,
melodies he heard on the phonograph, at
two years he was singing in three
languages, at four improvising accompani-
ments on the piano ; when he was six
Alexander Siloti, a pupil of Franz Liszt,
heard him accompany his mother’s
Russian songs, and took over his training.
At 17, after a four-year polish-up under
Rudolf Serkin, he made his double-debut
at Carnegie Hall as winner of two major
prizes ; doing concertos, with the Phila-
delphia Orchestra under Ormandy, and
the New York Philharmonic under
Rodzinski. He is a regular on the
VISITING PIANIST
invilation-list to appear at the Prades
Festival in France ; two years ago he was
awarded the Harriet Cohen medal for
the best recital given in London. This is
the last continent he has to conquer.
• •
New chairman of Victoria's admirable
Country Fire Authority is Edwin Andrew
Stanner, former Sydney ; accountant and
secretary, who has been settled south of
the border for the past 10 years, and has
lately been manager in Melbourne of
Victoria Insurance. He’ll be boss of
100,000 men, nearly all volunteers, who
answer the call when the C.F.A. directs
them from its city nerve-centre. The
C.F.A. runs its own minor Olympiad
every year, and, though teams arrive for
it from as far west as Perth, Victorian
firefighters invariably win. The new
chairman says he must maintain this
record and the prestige of the C.F.A.
• •
“Maitri”: The death in Sydney, at 71,
of Victorian-born composer May Brahe
removes from the front-rank of popular
song-writers one of their most successful
exponents. Musical snobs may sniff at
the type of “drawing-room” ballad in
which she excelled: the fact remains she
was gifted with a generous store of
melody and her 300-odd songs are
favorites in every English-speaking land.
Even the best of singers need a break
from songs of the class of Brahms, Wolf
and Richard Strauss occasionally, and in
May Brahe’s ballads they found material
which appealed to a large section of the
public, and which was wholesome and
seldom rubbishy—certainly they were a
godsend to singing-teachers.
Some of her better numbers are well
above the popular-song standard:
“Down simple enough (so
is Handel’s “Hallelujah Chorus”), has an
irresistible, haunting quality (I first heard
it nearly 40 years ago and still enjoy it),
while several numbers in the song-cycle
“Spindrift” reveal an unexpected
strength. A tendency to plagiarise some
of her own earlier compositions was a
fault of her later years: all the same, a
comment by a famous English composer
concerning Tosti’s singing might aptly be
applied to May Brahe’s work, “Small art,
but real art.”
She possessed an indomitable spirit and
the courage of her convictions—even in
war-time she did not hesitate to plead the
cause of world peace. Last time I met her
she was contemplating a lecture-tour of
the U.S., and this‘despite her distressing
lameness. She will be missed by a large
circle of friends and admirers here and
abroad.
• •
Norman Bennett, whose friends say
they have never seen him shed his black
homburg (except for a topper), has been
asked by Melbourne City Council to stay
on beyond his retiring-age, at least over
the Olympic Games period. He is chief-
clerk, but more importantly just now is
also the city’s front-of-the-house man
and master of manners. He knows how
to receive and introduce V.I.P.s from
Royalty downward, and has done so
for many of the 50 years he has been
at the Town Hall; Lord Mayors are often
greenhorns in protocol. As chief-clerk,
he is the city’s third executive ; he might
have been Town Clerk if his retirement
had not been imminent.
• •
“Allan B.”: Former R.A.N. chaplain
Harvey Perkins has been elected general-
secretary in Australia for the World
Council of Churches, succeeding the Rev.
Dr. Malcolm Mackay, who is to take
charge of Scots Sydney. Perkins,
who is 37, will leave his job as Methodist
minister at Mitcham (Vic.). From Wesley
College he went on to Melbourne Uni.
and graduated with first-class honors in
Law and Commerce, did his B.D. at
Cambridge, and later went to Lund,
Sweden, to represent the Methodist
Church at a Faith and Order Conference.
He is married, with three children, and,
incidentally, is house-hunting in Sydney.
« •
Alan Adair Ashman, newly-appointed
third member of the Vic. Housing Com-
mission, was a copy-boy with Melbourne
“Herald” before the last war. Now, at 35,
he earns £3500 a year. From the
“Herald” he got a clerk’s job in the State
Audit Office, became an auditor, and
learned public financing in the Council of
Adult Education and Hospitals Com-
mission before his new appointment.
Ashman was in the Army for most of the
war, but joined the R.A.A.F. in 1944,
qualified as a navigator and was with No.
1 Squadron in the islands, flying Mosquito
fighters. The atom-bomb arrived before
they all bit the Labuan dust.
• •
Into the Silence:
Swept off the rocks while fishing north of
Carnarvon fW.A.), Edgar Herz and Vernon
Pollock Leach, both in their forties and close
friends. Herz, resident M.O. and Flying Doctor
for the area, was a Vienna graduate who had
practised in Shanghai; he settled in Carnarvon
six years ago. Leach, the resident-magistrate,
was a Law graduate of W.A. University and
had been Mr. Justice Wolff’s associate. He
served overseas with 2/16 Bn. and got his
majority.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 68, Charles Wallace
Boswell, M.P. for the Bay of Islands, 1938-43.
Appointed by Peter Fraser Minister to Moscow,
he was New Zealand’s one and only rep.—
the Holland Government abolished the job. A
native of Coromandel, he was an Auckland
University College M.A. and had been a teacher
before he went into Parliament.
In Melbourne, M. B. (Bruce) Harry, formerly
Chief Inspector, Postal Services (now designated
Assistant Director-General), who joined the
South Australian P.O. in pre-Federation days
and was transferred to the central administra-
tion in 1906. He represented Australia at
three international postal conventions: London,
1929; Cairo, 1934; Buenos Aires, 1939.
At Wellington (N.Z.), Fred Roberts, member
of the original All Black team that swept all
before it in the United Kingdom in 1905. Halt-
back in that great combination, he played in
29 of the 32 matches.
At 57, in Cornwall (Eng.), Cardinal Bernard
Griffin, Archbishop of Westminster and head
of the Roman Catholic hierarchy in England ana
Wales. The son of a Birmingham bicycle-dealer,
he served in the R.A.F. in War I and was
ordained in Rome in 1924 after a brillian
scholastic career.
In New Mexico, D. H. Lawrence’s widow.
Frieda; one of the Junker families, the von
Richthofens, she was related to the famous
German war-ace of that name —which, jome
with Lawrence’s bellicose pacifism and socia
origins, gave an interesting twist to a marriage
which is, perhaps, the best-documented !
modern literature. In 1950 she married Angelino
Ravagli, an Italian painter.
In Melbourne, at 74, Charles Joel Matthews,
who made a name as an agricultural journalist m
South Australia and Victoria. In latter >
he was agricultural editor of the weexi.
Times,” Melbourne.
In Sydney, Evangeline B. Moore, daughter of
writer and critic J, Sheridan Moore. An e
member of the R.S J>.C.A. and similar organic
tions, Miss Moore, through her long ( lfe >
sistently advocated a more decent treatment
animals.


\'
A»R Cs for
AIC//HAl y ANP a
VAQOL.B. ' POP FoR.
m, TL&ASS .
ERRAND OF MERCY


ABORIGINALITIES
T'HE editor of our local paper fills-in
A odd corners with: “The people look
for your announcements in this paper.”
How true that proved to be! In last
week’s issue he front-paged the news that
in response to an earlier report of his
shortage of firewood he now had two
loads in his yard and looked forward to
weeks of warmth from roaring fires in his
office. This week’s issue is not so cheer-
ful. One of the loads was removed from
his yard the night following the earlier
issue.—“Raygu.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: The last lingering Chinamen’s
garden has gone from our district —and
an era has passed. Queer fellow was the
heathen Chinee. He would never walk
abreast with his compatriots when return-
ing to the gardens from town ; always he
shambled along in single-file, sing-song
voices passing up and down the line. His
blue dungaree pants invariably had the
maker’s label preserved intact as long as
possible; he habitually carried three-
penny-bits in his ear-orifices—whether for
convenience, or from some Celestial
superstition, or as a cure for earache, I
never knew. Another singularity was his
cigarettes thick, funnel-shaped and
wrapped in newspaper.
* * * *
“Doormat”: Many so-called souvenirs
of Australia are made in Japan, but the
Pitjantjatjara tribe at the Ernabella
mission-station in Central Australia are
busy making real ones for visitors to the
Olympic Games: native-designed floor-
and knee-rugs from pure Merino-wool,
miniature spear-sets, woomeras, and
carved boomerangs. Every year these
natives make and design thousands of
Christmas-cards, but they count the
Games as their biggest opportunity since
letting Cooky get away.
If “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
25/7/ ’56) had spent some time with John
Landy he would have come across his
ghost-fungus in plenty. Landy, a veritable
night-owl for training, used to bring it
back with him after his night training and
scare the boys in the dormitories at
Geelong Grammar School’s Timbertop,
near Buller. Unfortunately, he returned
to the flats o & Corio and never divulged
where he found his fungus. My money is
on the kids to find it, even though they
are in bed by 9 p.m.
* * * *
“Sackville”: That monkey who liked
his noggin (B. 1/ 8 / ’56) could lay only one
claim to the unusual—he drank beer ; in
his native state he would almost certainly
have been a plonk-oh. Esther Warner, in
her book Trial by Sass wood, describes
how natives in the forest villages of
Liberia cut incisions in palm-trees and tie
gourds to the trunks to catch the sap. The
fluid is left there to ferment, when it
becomes palm-wine, and chimpanzees liv-
ing in the surrounding jungle have learnt
to serve themselves. A chimp, the
authoress kept in captivity was blind-
drunk when caught—the sole reason why
he was. Caged and chained, the big
fellow spent his time sulking—until a
human came near; then he would leap
forward with murderous intent. The
native boy whose chores included clean-
ing-out the animals’ cages was faced with
a problem. He solved it with satisfaction
all round. Two pints of palm-plonk and
Chimp was full of good-fellowship.
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: One of the oddities of the
Murray River floods was the salvaging of
an orange-crop worth £2500 at Gol Goi,
near Mildura, by boats. Most of the
30-acre crop was of export-standard, but
because of the difficulty in clipping the
fruit while standing in a boat most of
it had to be sold here. Pickers used two
motor-boats, four row-boats and two
rafts to get the fruit off the trees to wait-
ing trucks.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: A notable tree-family is
Araucariacece. To it belong the kauri-,
hoop-, bunya- and Norfolk-pine, and
from its ancient forests derive all
Australian brown-coal. The French
commander Du Fresne in 1772 tried to
take a cargo of kauri masts from New
Zealand, with fatal results to half his
crew. By 1794 the British were doing
better, and the Admiralty was getting
substantial shipments. Nelson fought his
victorious Trafalgar with all ships of the
line refitted with kauri masts and spars.
Their better performance (than pitch-pine)
allowed more sail and sharper course-
changing. The master of the E. R. Sterl-
ing, the largest schooner ever to come
here, said he never minded cracking a
mast on this run, because it gave him
the excuse of replacing it with a kauri.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Twenty-odd years ago in
Torres Straits my native housegirl excused
her late reporting for duty one morning
with the plea: “Sorry, Missus! I just
pinish hab piccanniny!” In those days
officialdom, under medical persuasion,
Garsh! Which are the dames ?”
discouraged the practice of native women
going about their avocations almost
immediately after childbirth. Last week,
when the Stork arrived before the doctor
in our Melbourne suburban street, the
medico incurred the concerted revilings
of half-a-dozen neighboring matrons
when he directed the mother to take her
hour-old offspring and walk to the car
which was to take her to hospital. I’ve
learned also that in most hospitals it is
now usual for mothers to be made to
fend for themselves within a few hours of
giving birth, and to send them home after
a few days, which seems to indicate that
modern medicine believes in getting back
to the primitive in relation to childbirth.
If the new treatment reaches Torres
Straits, I wonder how Binghi matrons will
react to a reversion to the “old-pashion”
way, from which, to the disgust of their
dusky lords, they were persuaded a couple
of decades ago.
* * * *
“Griff”: A cocky at Boolarra South
(Vic.) dragged off and upended his gum-
boot to rid himself of the clod of earth
that had been annoying him for some
time—and a 15in. tiger-snake dropped out
of the trilby! Very unlikely that Joe had
the same trouble the agriculturist did
about an hour later: Doc. called it
“delayed shock.”
* * * *
“Erah”: Young Erah had had the
rudiments of hypnosis explained to him
at school, and came home to try it out on
the hens. He had six foolish-looking
fowls standing in a row, and in his hand
the seventh with her head tucked beneath
her wing. As he swung her around, I
said, “Suggest to them that they lay some
eggs.” And, do y’ know, next morning
there was an egg beneath a perch and
another in a nest, after two eggless
months!
* * * *
“Jade”: Old Andy’s beefarm is a
regular stopping-place for up-river
tourist-boats, and trippers flock ashore
to buy his honey. One boatload came
back lately with papaws' and pineapples,
but no honey. On arrival at the farm
the tourists had been assailed by a
desperate cackling from an aged Leg-
horn, which, leaning over
the honey-vat to peck at
bogged bees, had fallen in.
Nonchalantly Andy scooped
her out, and she had rushed
away shrieking her distress
as a large red-setter bounded
after her, licking avidly. In
vain Andy assured the
visitors that honey was so
pure it didn’t matter what
fell into it, and that, any-
way, this vat was what he
kept to feed the bees in bad
seasons. Even locals took to scanning
the honey for feathers until a bad season
made sure that Andy had to use it for
the bees.
* * * * *
“Old Mac”: T’lang-atta. or Tallan-
gat-ta, Yarra Yarra or Yanna Yanna
(B. 1/8//56), Wimmera or woomera,
Warragul or Yongala or Eun-
gella—who knows? Few of our early
explorers or settlers were expert linguists
or comparative-philologists, and even if
they had been, it would have been im-
possible for them to put into foolproof
phonetic spelling the many un-English
vowels and consonants that we hear in
the many aboriginal dialects, or to insure
native place-names against the fate of
MxWaa Millar/, Mildoora/z (Mildura) or
Goo/zdiwindi. “Russ” may be right, but
my small Gazetteer Index of Australia
has 17 “Yarra”- and “Yarro”- place-
names, including two Yarra Yarras in
W.A., but only two with “Yanna” ; so,
when I go to Flemington, my few bob will
go on Yamzman — it runs!
“Nalla”: A spot on the Dariir.g
Downs (Q.) I like to visit is the site of
Shingle Hut, so well known to readers
of On Our Selection. The old shack has
long since gone, but memories, and a
post on which all the names of the family
are cut, remain to mark the place. Only
a mile or so off the busy Toowoomba-
Warwick Highway, it is an ideal spot
to boil the billy and read a chapter or
two from the lives of a pioneer family.
The crowded box-trees are gone and
farmlands spread to the horizon, but the
hill where Dad “was sure there was gold”
is still there.
* * * *
nrHE Queensland lung-fish ( Neocerato ■
A dus forsteri ) was supposed to live
only in the Burnett and Mary Rivers, but
large numbers were recently found in
the Brisbane River and Laidley Creek,
several hundred miles to the south of its
accepted natural habitat.
The fish is the only living species of
a group of animals ( Ceratodus ) which
have been found as fossils in many
countries, including Australia. Scientists
still argue whether Ceratodus is fish or
amphibian. It can breathe through a
lung as well as through the gills.
To anglers the lung-fish is a nuisance.
Protected by law, it is a worse bait-
robber than the eel or turtle. Worms
are its favorite diet.
Its eggs are like those of the frog,
and the tadpolelike young spend most
of their time in wet sand and shallow
water before venturing into the deeper
pools. The fish has been known to reach
6ft. in length and to live from 20 to. 30
years.
The natives in the upper reaches of
the Burnett River considered the fish
taboo. Ceratodus, a railway-siding on
the Burnett River, was named after it.
Agricola.
SORCERY
[A “Launceston Examiner” reporter, writing
that the flying-saucer season is here again, went
to Windmill Hill seeking Martian or moon men
but found only “a very thin cat.” Meanwhile,
observers reported that a flying-saucer dropped
mysterious jelly-like substance at Glen Innes
(N.S.W.)]
The saucer season’s here again
And airy miscellanea
Has hovered o’er Glen Innes and,
It’s also said, Tasmania.
To Windmill Hill in Launceston
The eager made a beeline,
But there instead of Martian men
Met nothing but a feline.
More fortunate were Those upon
The odd Glen Innes scene;
They claim their flying-saucer dropped
A mass of gelatine.
We’re not suspicious of the cat,
But jelly from the skies
Invites the thought that someone’s found
New ways to advertise.
N.S.W.
IRAN HEALY.
PUTTING THE RED IN THE
LEGER
[When the second day of a recent race-meeting
at Scone (N.S.W.) had to be abandoned because
of rain, more admission-money than had been
paid in by people on the course was paid out.]
Let’s sneak in to the meets at Scone
And leave old Randwick well alone
Except when the weather’s sunny;
For if it rains on the Hunter course
We may get wet, but with no remorse
We can all come home with money.
N.S.W,
IAN HEALY.


TOD hacked a piece of bread from the
week-old loaf and laid it on the coals
at afternoon smoke-oh.
“That don’t improve the food-value
of it,” Plum, his bosom mate, sneered.
“You’re only wastin’ time.”
Tod turned the bread over. “Toasting
improves the food-value, because it makes
the bread easier to digest,” he growled
back. And before the rest of the ring-
barking gang knew it the argument boiled
over.
The two mates rushed at each other,
and both wild blows connected. Plum
dropped into the fire ; Tod’s eyes glazed,
but he stayed on his feet. The mob
grabbed Tod, and someone dragged Plum
out of the toast.
“Now y’ might be satisfied!” Plum
snarled.
Tod didn’t reply ; he seemed to be still
chewing-over the food-value, or some-
thing. But he worked away stolidly till
just on knock-off time, when he edged
over to Bunny, the next axeman on the
line, and said, “Say, Bun, wot did happen
back there?”
Bunny looked amazed. “X’ mean the
fight?”
“Yair.”
“There was nothin’ to it,” Bunny said.
“Plum jist came at you, and y’ both
swung, and he dropped in the fire.”
A great fight stole over Tod’s dial. “Is
that a fact? Didn’t —er . . . didn’t Plum
knock me on to me knees in the ashes,
and didn’t I hold me arms up like a
prayin’-mantis t’ save meself?”
“Y’re mad! All y’ did when Plum
cracked y’ one was shake y’r head a
bit. . .”
“Well, that beats hell! ” said Tod, vastly
relieved. “/ was flunkin' all the afternoon
l lost the fight.”
Arturo.
* * * *
“Two Jays”: For four or five years a
possum has lived in a cosy hollow in an
old gumtree, except in the spring, when
he disappears, and a pair of kookaburras
raise their family there. Do they eject
Mr. Possum? If so, how? We are
curiously awaiting events this spring, as
the winter tenant has been missing for
some time, and the new tenants are—
a swarm of bees!
* * * *
“Ladimac”: The first three artists
featured in a radio-programme chosen
by the aborigines of a Northern Territory
mission-station were Nat “King” Cole,
Winifred Atwell and Paul Robeson.
* * * *
“Kune”: However much motorists may
condemn semi-trailers for domineering
over the highways, the real Big Boss on
any road still is the old-fashioned steam-
“They usually perk-up after sundown."
roller. Whereas the trailer has weight and
speed, the other has weight and that
most-hated-of-all faults in modem traffic
—slowness. Surprising how many of
these old-timers, with their 14-ton weight
and top-speed of three m.p.h., are still
around. Sydney tramways have four in
more-or-less regular work throughout the
city area, and in the whole of N.S.W.
there are 63, mostly belonging to country
councils.
• * * *
“Papalangi”: I don’t know whether
any Tongan infant, like that little Maori
(B. 8/8/’56), ever died of District Nurse,
but one old lady must have been pretty
tough to survive an attack of Native
Medical Assistant. I read in his diary:
“Fine-motu’a, ages 65 very constipate.
Giving 2 No. 9 bill and sailing enema.”
* * * *
“Saaedi”: With certain of the several
harsh aggressive calls made by the little
wattle-bird the upper and lower mandibles
are rattled together by way of accom-
paniment. This rattling is done at a great
rate, and the combined noise produced is
extremely intimidatory—which indeed is
probably the bird’s purpose. Maybe I
have missed something, but I know of nO'
other avian which augments its vocal
repertoire in this manner.
* * * *
“Llowy”: Perhaps canine telepathy
accounts for this one. Although we live
in a thickly populated suburb blanketed
day and night by the roar of traffic, my
irregular arrivals are heralded unfailingly
by my faithful bitzer. Minutes before I
drive into our street the somnolent
bundle lying on the mat flicks an ear,
then with galvanic suddenness is trans-
formed into a perambulating mass of
excitement. The wave-length -has never
yet been off the beam, and this is the
signal for my spouse to switch on the
kettle so that a hot brew invariably
awaits me.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: No wonder “T.M.’s” wife was
absorbed if she was reading Mates at
B ilia bong (B. 1/8/’56). First introduced
to the series at the age of seven, even
today, if I can cadge the latest copy from
the younger generation, I’m likely to be
oblivious to the outside world until I
finish the latest doings of the Billabong
folk. A guest on a cattle-station looking
for something to read while resting after
lunch, I discovered the series in the book-
case in my room. My subsequent
appearance at afternoon-tea with red-
dened eyes was unquestioningly and
sympathetically accepted when I
explained, “I’ve just been rereading
Captain Jim.” I was then in my early
thirties! And the only reason I do not
read Mates at Billabong nowadays is that
even after all these years the chapter on
Bob’s death can still send me into floods
of tears. Not that the Billabong books
were mawkishly sentimental, but the joys
and heartbreaks of station-fife were
faithfully mirrored in their pages. Even
in his late sixties my father, a hard-headed
bushman, frequently requested “another
of those books about Norah.” To me the
Lintons rank with the Forsyte and White-
oak families as people whom I know far
more intimately than my nextdoor
neighbors. »
* * * *
“Wusslean”: The organisers of Timber
Week (B. 8/8/’56) might find interesting
samples in timber of the Port Melbourne
town pier, formerly known as Liardet’s,
which is now being demolished. Liardet
built it in 1841 ; it has been renovated
several times, but some of the original
redgum piles were standing when the
wreckers took over. One had been
driven right through the wreck of an
“I dunno —I merely pressed one of those buttons."
old whaling-boat. World War I troops
marched along the old pier to embark.
* * * *
“C.A.A.”: The principle of the parlor-,
trick in which a cigarette wrapped in
aluminium foil is bent and twisted is
embodied in the British invention of
electrical heater-tape. The heater-element
of the tape is woven into glass-fibre tape
with a serpentine weave so that it con-
tinuously touches the tape. So far it has
been used for aircraft de-icing, heating
interiors and high-altitude suits, soil-
heating, in transformers and for bonding
veneers to wood in furniture manufac-
ture.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Members of Federal
Parliament who lately visited New Guinea
were a mixed bag, but they agreed suffici-
ently to allow the leader of the delega-
tion, Tasmanian Liberal Bill Falkinder,
to make some useful comments. They
found, he said, that an outstanding feature
of the Administration was the general
attitude of sympathy and understanding
shown by individual officers in relation to
the native people, and they praised the
general “go-ahead” atmosphere. Sugges-
tions included more mechanical equip-
ment for road-making and maintenance ;
that the Australian Army should consider
part-time training in the Territory; pro-
vision of secondary - education for
European children; and encouragement
of native councils.
* * . * *
“Macquarie”: The historic Sydney
home called Little Bridge, last architec-
tural link with the Harris family, is to be
demolished. Erstwhile home of Miss
Mary Ann Harris, daughter of
Dr. s John Harris (who came to
Australia as Army surgeon with
the N.S.W. Corps in 1790, and
who later built Ultimo House,
Sydney, on the site of the present
Technical College in Harris-
street), Little Bridge faces John
Henry-street, which was named
after Miss Harris’s brother, her
own name being perpetuated in
Mary Ann-street, two streets
south. Miss Harris donated a
plot of land for the establish-
ment of a “children’s bank” ; the
rest of the property she be-
queathed as a “children’s play-
ground.” In its day Little Bridge
was an imposing house, but it degenerated
into a slum tenement.
m * * *
“Ceg”: That tin-eating billygoat (B.
8/8/’56): Travellers crossing the Coorong
desert (S.A.) 'may be surprised, if they
stop at Sporting Mack’s camp, to find a,
nannygoat with a lovely schoolgirl com-
plexion. Having a wash outside the
caravan there, I placed a new cake of
toilet-soap on the camp-stool beside the
basin. Nanny appeared from nowhere
and devoured the soap with great relish.
Chewed it up thoroughly and then looked
for more. When I mentioned the matter
at breakfast, another member of the party
was considerably moved by the goat’s
apparent hunger, and went round the
camp raking odds-and-ends of litter into
small heaps. These she embellished with
wooden stakes carrying the inscription
“Goat’s Breakfast.” And Madame
Capricornus went from heap to heap
eating the lot, despite the fact that most
of them included cigarette-butts.
ABOUT BEE STINGS
WHEN you lift the lid of a colony of
bees these cold mornings every bee
moving about the top of the frames, but
too cold to take-off immediately, rears
her abdomen in the air, buzzes with her
wings and thrusts out that polished black
barb. From the apiarist’s point of view
it is about the best thing she can pro-
duce, for it keeps the profession from
being overcrowded.
On the tip of the sting a bead of color-
less fluid clings. This doesn’t drop, but
returns through the hollow barb back
to the poison-sac when the bee recovers
from the shock of intrusion and returns
to her normal stance. For all that, a
forest of upturned barbs, leaking that
kind of tangy poison, carries a message.
Like the general wellbeing of the bee,
the sting is governed to a big extent by
the pasturage. If the honey’s sweet and
the pollen rich she’ll raise a weal on
you like a belt-buckle ; if the flow’s gone
and there’s naught to speak of in the
cupboards the sting will be as mild as a
skeeter’s. >
It depends, too, on how it’s poked at
you. Some bees sting so furiously they
keep on hitting you when you’ve got the
sting under *the fingernail. I’ve beaten
a bee to the draw, knocked her aside
and watched the sting with its poison-
sac flung away and wavering in the air,
with the beads of poison shuttling back
and forth. And if it so happens that
that sting gets the right way round for
business, even after the owner of it has
been flipped into the grass, it’ll go in all
right, to the hilt. It will even penetrate
a felt-hat; it could work its way into
the heart of a finance-company.
It appears, also, that the smell of the
spilt venom is to the bee like blood to a
Gurkha. Wherever a sting is lodged
is the point of contact for a dozen other
warring bees. Things can be quiet in a
yard, but allow the smell of the sting to
stay after meeting-up with a cranky hive
and it’s the end of the peacefulness.
When conditions are bad some apiarists
will wash their arms with a plain soap ;
all of them will hit the most-stung spots
with a few strong puffs from the smoker ;
but, whatever the disguise, the acrid smell
of the poison, if left, will madden the bees.
That could account for the odd case
where you hear of a cornered horse being
stung to death. Thinking about it, I
don’t recall ever hearing about a bee-
herder being stung to death. We’re a
thick-skinned mob, tougher than mules.
B-HERD.


Will
Death Duties
Take the "Lions' Share"
of your Estate?;
This is a problem which often confronts testators
with large estates. Expert advice can prove
invaluable.
Why not now examine and explore the possibilities
of planning your affairs to the advantage eventually
of your dependents?
The Company’s 70 years of specialised experience—
as Executors, Trustees, Agents and Attorneys—is at
your service
Call or write for the Booklet “Important Facts
concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Clasorporated ta Victorfaj Established 1888
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverhgia:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmontb.
2 O'CONNELL STREET*. SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. WUson, C.M.0., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell. St.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, R.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C. ; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.: E. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson
Manager: J. \CL K. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, O B.E. (Chairmnnl ■
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenani A E Axol’
__ yf’ - Norman Jameson. 1
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT22
THURSDAY'S CHILD
/ORDINARILY the Federal
Budget is presented on a
Wednesday night. This week it
will be brought down on Thurs-
day. And while Wednesday’s
child, according to the rhyme,
is loving and giving, Thursday’s
child must work hard for a
living.
Maybe there’s something in it.
In any case, it’s quite the right
cue for the nation at the moment.
The simple prescription of a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay was never more likely to
save a country from economic
stagnation and social discord
than it is in this present financial
year.
Treasurer Fadden will have to
draft his Budget with an un-
satisfactory national background
in mind. Outstanding will be
the facts that wage-costs are
rising again at a time when
prices for exports are tending to
fall (except, perhaps, for wool
and some metals), when develop-
ment is calling for more capital-
goods than our own production
and paid-for imports can pro-
vide, and when profit-earning
prospects are not sufficiently
attractive to bring in all the
overseas capital that we need.
Even the great success of
General-Motors-Holden’s, which
is showing enough profit to
satisfy any investor, won’t
attract sufficient capital, because
its results are outstanding and
are unlikely to be paralleled by
any other concern in the near
future. There is a limit to
motor-car-manufacturing in Aus-
tralia.
What Australia needs very
urgently is capital for public
works and transport. But
Government mismanagement of
these things in some States, and
the unattractive nature of
debenture-investments to over-
seas investors anyway, make
financing of essential public
works from anything but our
own resources very difficult. We
have received aid from the
World Bank and other sources,
but what has come in is far from
adequate for our needs.
In Australia, enterprise is still
lacking in sufficient overall in-
centives, and thrift has too little
reward. We are not working
diligently enough, not produc-
ing enough, not saving enough,
not investing enough. We are
spending too much on everyday
enjoyment.
If, by working harder, we
created more of the things
needed for both everyday con-
sumption and capital-investment,
we would find, like Canada, that
we would be rushed wjth money
by overseas investors. The
reason why we don’t share in
Canada’s investment prestige is
because of the “darg” that seems
to limit productivity and profit-
earning in this country.
Sir Arthur Fadden should con-
sider all these things in preparing
his Budget. Work and enterprise
should not be robbed further of
incentive through too-high taxa-
tion ; thrift should not be de-
prived of its due rewards. And
while spending on non-essentials
should be discouraged, the
approach to the question of
capital-expenditure during a
period of limited resources
should not merely be viewed with
a mind on restrictive measures.
A long-term plan for a more
robust and efficient industry
should underlie any short-term
measures which the Treasury
may think necessary to adopt.
We have been following short-
term policy for the twelve years
since the war ended! In other
words, we have been proceeding
from one panic to another.
Inflation without Progress
A LREADY in possession of
** the knowledge of the dis-
covery of a large deposit of
bauxite on the Queensland side
of the Gulf of Carpentaria, and
forecasting big mining develop-
ments in the north of Australia,
Mr. W. S. Robinson, of Collins
House, has been telling Aus-
tralians not to be so frightened
about prospects of further in-
flation. He associates progress
and expansion with some infla-
tion, and has a dead-set on
present Whitehall financial
policy, likening it to the return
to the gold-standard in 1925
which preceded the depression.
Monetary policy, even at Bank
of England level, has sometimes
been wrong. But the inflation
that Australia is seeing at the
moment is more the result of
political policy than the result
either of too-rapid industrial
progress or monetary policy.
For instance, with that bauxite
deposit in Queensland, it is to
be hoped that some Ministerial
member of the Queensland
“Labor” party does not find that
is is infested with noogoora-burr
or something of the kind and
hold-up development on that
account. At the political level
monstrous burdens have been
placed upon the progress of
Australian industry, usually the
result of trade-union control of
State political machines.
With no indigenous oil avail-
able in commercial quantities
and coalmining unnecessarily
costly, Australians should be
working more hours a week than
countries blessed with abundant
petroleum and hydroelectric
power. Actually the reverse is the
case. We average fewer working-
hours a week than either Canada
or the United States, and many
fewer than the United Kingdom,
which, with regard to fuel and
power, has problems similar to
our own.
For several years the high
price of wool has tended to off-
set our high production-costs
and lack of indigenous pet-
roleum. That phase is passing,
and our shortage of both capital-
goods and consumer-goods is
tending to reveal itself.
Australia doesn’t get enough
production in return for the
wages, overtime and “skill-
margins” that it pays out. That
is the most serious cause of
present inflation. Certainly that
inflation had its beginning in
World War 11, when much more
money than civilian goods was
created in order to finance the
war effort. But the introduction
of the 40-hour week following
the creation of that situation was
a stroke of calamity. And,
though the “freezing” of the
basic wage in 1954 gave the
nation a chance to do something
about its industrial instability
and inadequate productivity, at
very little real cost to the wage-
earner, the interference with
wage-control for political pur-
poses by State “Labor” Govern-
ments recently has set inflation
off again.
In order for marginal pro-
ducers in the mining industry to
pay, it might be necessary to
offset inflating wages by de-
valuing the currency. But that
is no cure for inflation or in-
efficient or politically corrupt
government. Our real need is
for lower production - costs
brought about by increased per
capita production.
The Rutile Boom
TTHOUGH few of the rutile-
prospectors and -producers on
the N.S.W. and Queensland
coast have yet paid a dividend,
the performance of Zircon
Rutile, Ltd., the oldest in the
game, has had a stimulating
effect on most of the others.
The 10s. shares of this Mel-
bourne concern have lately been
sold at over 1305., a price which
puts a valuation of around
£1,750,000 on the undertaking.
In its longish life the co. hasn’t
distributed a tenth of that
amount in dividends, so that the
market is banking on the future,
“And, to make it worse, my husband lost his job and
We spent our savings."
including prospects of the new
venture with Whale Industries,
Ltd., registered under the, name
of Tangalooma Minerals, Ltd.,
and investigating areas on
Stradbroke Island (Q.).
The outlook for rutile is in-
triguing, but uncertain. Aus-
tralia seems to have a good
proportion of the world’s
accessible rutile resources, and
at present the mining of these
is bringing in a sizeable dollar-
income, with prices favorable.
But the possibility of ilmenite
slag in the end producing a
cheaper titanium metal has to
be kept in mind. At the same
time, at present prices of the
mineral, rutile itself does not
represent a high proportion of
the cost of the refined metal.
At top strategic level, too,
present favorable prices for
rutile may to an extent be
“hurley” to encourage the find-
ing of new sources of the
mineral and its associates in
other parts of the British
Commonwealth. Titanium is a
strategic defence metal, of
growing value in the jet-aircraft
industry.
10 p.c. Interest
TAANGER-signals are flying in
the money-market. When
advertisements appear almost
daily offering 10 p.c. interest for
money on three-year terms and
the like it is time to pause and
consider.
Many of the concerns offering
10 p.c. may be able to pay that
rate. Cash-order and terms-
finance companies, provided they
select their risks well, may still
be able to make a good profit
without charging their customers
any more than they are doing at
present. But an established rate
of 10 p.c. on the inside edge of
the regular borrowing market is
going to make it extremely hard
for those on the outside edge to
get money at under 12 p.c. or
15 p.c. And in the case of a
business with only normal
margins of gross profit to count
on, that is an awfully heavy
burden to carry. More particu-
larly where the amount of over-
draft accommodation at pre-
scribed interest-rates is these
days so small.
The danger-signals at present
are mainly to be noted by people
engaged in businesses which
have inadequate capital and face
competitive markets. But with a
little unemployment beginning to
show up, even some of the hire-
purchase cos. may find that
10 p.c. and 12 \ p.c. is too much
to pay. Especially in N.S.W.,
where the new h.-p. tax is coming
into force.
These higher interest-rates are,
in any case, a burden on produc-
tion-costs and an invitation to
further inflation. And they are
a distinct embarrassment to the
banking system, in which
interest-rates received and paid
are very much under those
of the consumer-credit concerns.
Oil and Salt-water
[From F. Owen]
'THE day the news that the
-*• Kuru well had reached
1640 ft. was published, I had
’phone-calls asking the connec-
tion between oil and salt-water
and the depth at which it is
usual to strike oil.
Oil is commonly but not
invariably associated with
“salt”-water, but brines often
occur without any accompanying
oil. Whether water is en-
countered above or below the
gas or oil isn’t a matter of any
great importance or significance,
provided the water is in a stratum
distinct from that holding the
oil and/or gas. Where water is
struck in a stratum elsewhere
known to contain oil or gas, it
leads to the suspicion that the
well may be located too far
“down-dip,” or, in other words,
that “edge-water” has been met.
In such a case, it has to be
proved that it is edge-water
before acting upon the suspicion,
as there are several other proba-
bilities and possibilities.
Where a well has entered
water after striking a gas- and/or
oil-bearing zone in the same
stratum, it is usually (but not
invariably) a case of “bottom-
water,” which is water under-
lying oil in the same stratum and
in direct contact with the oil.
Both dissolved-solid concentra-
tion and chemical composition
of “bottom” and “edge” brines
have considerable bearing on the
interpretation of the geological
history of the beds through
which they (and the oil and gas)
have passed and of the stratum
in which they occur. Hence the
brines provide data which can be
of considerable utility in the
search for oil. , .
The depth at which the oil is
found may vary from surface to
o Continued on next page)


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD JOHN WITHERIDGE late
of Rozelle Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
BERYL MAUDE WITHERIDGE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1520 of 1956
cm the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street, Syd-
ney by the 2nd day of November 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. J. W. MILNE &
BERRY, Solicitors, 310 George Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO PETER HERBERT SCHITTKO late
of Bathurst Migrant Camp Bathurst.—
TAKE NOTICE that MAUD EVELYN
SCHITTKO has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3210 of 1955 on the grounds
if desertion for 3 years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court Sydney by the 30th day
of November 1956 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
PHILIP NORMAN ROACH, Solicitor,
of 160 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.—
I. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LEO POLLARD .late of Nelanglo
Street Gunning in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that the
said MARY EMILY POLLARD formerly
MARY EMILY YENSCH a minor under
the age of 21 years by her guardian
ARTHUR EDWIN YENSCH has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3626 of 1955
•on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Stroet Syd-
ney by the 19th October 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from H. D. McLACHLAN, CHILTON &
CO., Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
::
:
f \
The many services of this Bank now include a
modern Savings Bank at all branches and agencies
of the Bank in New South Wales, Victoria, Queens-
land, Western Australia and Australian Capital
Territory.
The complete banking needs of customers,
including all members of a family, may now be
transacted, conveniently and quickly, at one
office.
The deposits of GB.C. Savings Bank
Ltd. are guaranteed by the parent
company.
The manager at Head Office, or your
nearest branch of this Bank, will explain, gladly t
the full service now available.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
over four miles. The first com-
mercial oilwell Drake’s, in
Pennsylvania, U.S.A. struck
clean petroleum at 68ft. 6in.,
and the deepest commercial pro-
duction to date comes from a
zone lying between the depths of
21,443 ft. and 21,465 ft. in a well
located 35 miles south of New
Orleans, U.S.A.
Nowadays, there is very little
commercial near-surface oil left
undiscovered, and new “pools”
underlying the crestal areas of
text-book anticlines are becoming
scarce. The average depth to
which it is necessary to drill thus
increases year by year ; but it
is incorrect to state that, in an
untested structure such as Kuru,
oil could not be struck at com-
paratively shallow horizons. The
available data for Papua, how-
ever, indicate that worth-while
deposits of petroleum must be
sought in deeply-buried strata.
Most oil-geologists would, of
course, be greatly interested to
receive more information as to
the pressure, flow-characteristics
and composition of the Kuru
gas and of the constitution of
the brines encountered. There
are, however, sound- reasons, at
present, for the reticence ex-
hibited by the operating com-
panies. For instance, any state-
ment issued as to the nature of
the Kuru gas might lead to mis-
interpretation followed by the
petroleum-hysteria which has
been such an unfortunate feature
of the Australian search for oil,
with subsequent disappointment.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
ALTHOUGH Egypt is not
ft- now a member of the sterling
area her economy depends sub-
stantially on sterling credit pro-
vided by the City. According to
a “Financial Times” contributor,
this applies to the covering of
her export/import gap, to
marketing the cotton crop and
to financing her imports. More-
over, the Egyptian banks’
foreign currency is very largely
in sterling holdings in British
banks.
The prompt, thorough and
emphatic steps taken by the
British authorities are note-
worthy for two reasons: they
suggest that the withdrawal of
sterling credit has powerful and
subtle disruptive value ; and they
bear out the conviction, so
forcibly expressed by the Prime
Minister in his broadcast, that
the time for counter-action
against Fascist technique can
never be too soon.
Egyptian sterling accounts are
under strict control. The Board
of Trade has advised the trade
associations that no payments
are being allowed out of them
for goods destined for Egypt
unless already provided for
before July 27. This should
slow-down exports to a trickle.
It is also understood that U.K.
Ambassadors in other financial
capitals have explained the
sanctions and actively sought the
co-operation of the Governments
concerned.
On the assumption—a reason-
able one that these countries
may consider their own interests
lie with those of the Common-
wealth, Colonel Nasser should
have difficulty in obtaining the
credit needed for everyday
trading purposes. Except, of
course, by becoming closer
linked with Moscow. Such a
forced choice would hardly
seem to commend itself to a
man who is reputed to have
Napoleonic ambitions. At all
events, it is a calculated risk
which apparently doesn’t dismay
the British Government.
Suez Repercussions
Except for heavy losses
sustained by speculators in oil
shares aqd for a merry scamper
after dollar stocks, mainly
Canadian, the sharemarkets
have been reasonably firm, with
gilt-edged remarkably steady.
But, apart from forced sales (to
pay for losses) and purchases by
the well-informed, trading was
at its lowest since March. Every-
body is holding off. This is con-
sistent with the time of year as
well as with the uncertainties of
the international situation. And
it is a reminder that our own
economic imponderables, though
obscured by other headlines,
promise to be conspicuous when
the holidays are over.
The mobilisation and troop-
movements will have to be paid
for. In fact, the Suez affair may
already have cancelled-out the
short-term cuts in defence that
were allowed for. The longer-
term consideration, that the
Government may have to keep
in readiness a small but expen-
sive highly-mobile force for
similar emergencies, does not
augur well for the substantial
economies (up to £4OO million)
that were expected to be
declared as trump honors.
While expenditure on research,
guided missiles and nuclear
weapons may still be cut, the
cost of so-called conventional
weapons must rise. The hints
that conscription might be ended,
or replaced by selective service,
during the life of the present
Government are hardly likely to
be repeated.
Furthermore, we are given to
understand that 1957 needs to
be a year of industrial expansion,
running up a huge bill in invest-
ment and requiring to be but-
tressed by a sound external
financial position. If Govern-
ment expenditure always a
constant headache to bankers and
economists —cannot be reduced,
there is nothing for it but further
to lighten the internal pressure.
That means heavier taxation
(probably indirect), suspension
of public works and housing or
a similar politically-undesirable
expedient.
Chekhov: A New Look
The story of “The Seagull” is
a fascinating one. Its immediate
failure left Chekhov—a brave,
good-humored and optimistic
idealist —so downcast as nearly
to drive him out of the theatre
for ever. But the meeting that
followed between Dantchenko
and Stanislavsky led to the
formation of the Moscow Arts
Theatre, which, in turn, almost
foundered after the fiasco of its
second production “The
Merchant of Venice.” Over-
coming Chekhov’s objections,
they put on “The Seagull.” This
not only saved their project but
enabled them to carry out the
arts-for-arts-sake methods that
are now legendary.
To no small degree, the Saville
Theatre production (the third of
John Clements’s classical season)
bids fair to add a momentous
postscript to the story, for it
breaks right away from long-
settled ideas. It repudiates, in
fact, the “heavy Russian” tradi-
tion of burst tear-ducts, whim-
sical gloom and cumulative
despair, consigning the head-in-
hands, I want-to-go-to-Moscow
extravaganzas of introspection
and morbidity to Heartbreak
House.
The new approach of trans-
lator David Magarshack and
producer Michael Macowan is
not to establish a mood, using
the characters merely as fantastic
instruments for its interpretation.
Instead, the persons living on
the Sorin estate are not abnormal
just because they happen to be
Chekhovian. They are, it is true,
disparate in emotions, ambitions
and temperaments ; they are also,
except for Dr. Dorn, always
moving relentlessly away from
happiness. But the important
difference is that they are recog-
nisable human beings, in the
main percipient and integral,, who
face, not shrink from, life’s ex-
periences, only to find them
disillusioning.
• At the one extreme, Sorin, the
landowner, wishes he had
married while Masha, consumed
by the unrequited love of Kon-
stantin (Treplev in the original),
wishes she hadn’t married the
prosaic schoolmaster on the
rebound. At the other, the once-
transparent Nina, now discarded
mistress and third-rate actress,
is saved from utter disillusion-
ment only by the purity of her
character; but not so Kon-
stantin, the idealist, who cannot
reconcile himself to a lower
stature than that of his mind’s
ambition and who blows his
brains out.
One has never seen this play
to better effect. Despite over-
drawing in some of the situations
and the flabbiness of the argu-
ments (there is too much talk
about acting and writing) the
experience is one of real dis-
covery. The more so on learning
that this interpretation was prob-
ably the author’s intent —it
appears that Stanislavsky hit
upon the other and the marked
success that followed laid the
tradition.
As to the acting and produc-
tion, all is praise, delight and
wonder. The performances,
each a separate study, the subtle-
ties of mood, the flexible rhythm,
the contrasts, the silences and the
delineated poetry amount to a
quintessence of art that cannot
be assimilated at a single visit.


rS
ff
-JF-
i
' 5 It
2 9ii
i'V
33-39 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAM WORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £78,000.000.
Has your Executor these qualifications?
The Executor and Trustee of your Will must have
certain qualifications if he is to administer your Estate
in the best interests of your dependents.
(1) He must have wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and other problems. (2) He must
be of absolute probity. (3) He must be accessible at
all reasonable times and (4) He must never grow too
old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private
person but you CAN find them in Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company, ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment A Senior Officer will gladly supply the
Information you desire.
DIRECTORS:
1 ' PLAYFAIR, M.L.0., Chairman;
®* r R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
LEWIS ! D. R. LYSAGHT;
J 2 ! JOHN DARLING;
HUGH DIXSON (Alternate Director).
A. Q. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED,
Local Directors, in addition to those Directors mentioned on the ie/t),'
WARREN D. McDONAJLD, Vice-Chairman; S. G. MeFAKLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Australian Mutual Provident Society
/~\VER its 107 years of existence the
A.M.P. Society has acquired the
dimensions and stature within Australia
of a national institution. Its activities
extend to New Zealand and the United
Kingdom as well, and it is the biggest life-
assurance office established on the
mutual principle in the British Common-
wealth.
Expansion has been fastest over the
last decade due to the rapid increase in
population, depreciation of the currency
and the growth of industrial
superannuation-schemes and home-
purchase associated with life-cover.
The amount of new business written
in 1955 was again a record for the
society. After deducting reinsurances,
99,502 new ordinary contracts were put
on the books insuring £132,426,360 (up
£7,847,857), annuities providing for
£131,788 a year were accepted, and 60,706
new industrial policies issued for a cover
of £11,069,318 (up £765,098).
Total income and its disposition in
each department compare as follows:
Ordinary Department.
Total Ex- Written Added
Dee., Income. Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 27,481
’53.31,829,068 11,870,230 3,629,369231,965 16,597,504
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 20,328
Tax overprovided .. .. .. 1,672,793
’54.33,202,581 12,536,090 3,945,889 242,033 1S n „
Exchange adjustment, £400,320 .. ’ ’
Surplus sale assets .. . . . . 44,991
’55.38,854,548 13,396,283 4,509,342 225,370 9ft - n .
Exchange adjustment, £255,049 .. ’ ’
Loss sale assets .. reduction 19,636
Tax overprovided .. .. .. 100,000
Industrial Department.
Total Ex. Written Added
Dec., Income Claims. penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
Surplus sale assets .. .. . . 5,851
’53.6,933,058 3,072,346 1,428,491 18,630 2,413,591
Surplus sale assets .. .. .. 4,248
Tax overprovided .. . . .. 408,488
’54.7,209,131 3,570,600 1,426,334 45,232 \ 9 nsfl fIC) ,
Exchange adjustment, £80,274 .. J ’ ’
Surplus sale assets .. . . • ■ 9,022
’55.7,385,720 4,144,989 1,509,300 43,925 { 1 638 392
Exchange adjustment, £49,114 .. j ’
Loss sale assets .. reduction 3,781
In the two sections combined gross
income from all sources was £46,240,268
(up £3,828,556), of which premiums pro-
vided £34,556,581 (up £2,833,832) and
interest, dividends and rents, r after
deducting £910,792 (up £351,665) income
and land taxes, £11,683,687 (up
£1,014,724).
After paying all claims and expenses,
writing-off £269,295 against office-
premises and other assets, and providing
£304,163 for exchange-adjustments,
£22,106,896 was added to the statutory
life funds. Allowing further for a loss
of £23,417 on the realisation of certain
assets, and transfer of £lOO,OOO from the
tax-provision, at the end of the year the
statutory funds (including £5,500,000
investment and contingencies reserves)
stood at £312,694,241.
Valuing its liabilities on certain O.D.
assurances with immediate participation
in profits on a slightly less stringent 2f p.c.
(up | p.c.) net-premium basis and assum-
ing an unchanged 2 p.c. rate of interest
for policies with deferred participation
and 2\ p.c. for all other classes of
business (without-profit policies, annuities,
endowment, etc.), thS society disclosed
an O.D. surplus of £8,768,194 (up
£714,178) available for distribution:
. 1954. 1955.
Assurance funds .. £238,127,352 £263,176,220*
Actuarial liability .. 230,073,336 254,408,026*
Surplus .. .. £8,054,016 £8,768,194
Bonus policyholders .. 6,925,900 7,496,295
Reserve contingencies .. 750,000 1,000,000
Reserve interim bonuses 60,000 60,000
Carried forward .. .. 318,116 211,899
* Includes £4,500,000 investments and contingencies
reserve.
Increased reversionary bonuses allotted
to participating policyholders absorbed
£7,496,295 (up £570,395) and £1,060,000
was transferred to contingencies and
interim-bonus reserves.
Reflecting the higher costs of writing
new business, the ratio of expenses to
premium receipts rose in the ordinary
department from 14.47 p.c. in 1954 to
14.92 p.c. last year, and from 24.75 p.c.
to 25.87 p.c. in the industrial section.
The effective rate of interest earned on
statutory funds was better, however ; but
partly because of increased company-
taxation the improvement achieved was
less than half that recorded in the three
preceding years. After deducting income
and land taxes, the 1955 rate was £4 os.
6d. p.c., as against £3 19s. 4d. p.c. in 1954.
To help in the assault on administrative
costs involved in handling nearly three-
million separate contracts the society has
kept itself informed on the latest develop-
ments in mechanisation and other methods
of office routine.
In the investment portfolio there has
been a decided move away lately from
Government securities in favor of higher-
interest-bearing mortgage, debenture and
preference securities and share equities:
Government 1954. p.c. 1955. p.c.
securities! ..£152,226,523 51.0 £146,304,776 45.5
Mortgages .. 98,774,651 33.1 117,632,912 36.6
Loans on policies,
etc 12,937,200 4.3 14,169,041 4.4
Shares and
debentures . . 23,636,807 7.9 30,273,220 9.4
Debtors, etc 4.. 4,059,961 1.6 5,164,772 1.6
Cash .. . . 14,131 0.1 4,069 ]
j- 2.5
Freeholds, etc... 6,055,313 2.0 7,919,678 J
Total assets £298,304,646 £321,468,468
Liabilities* .. 7,378,099 8,307,304
Net assets.. £290,926,557 £313,161,164
t Includes local and semi-Government securities.
$ Mainly accrued interest and outstanding premiums.
* Other than liabilities under policies.
Last term investment in Government
securities fell by £5,921,747 to
£146,304,776 —as a percentage of
total assets, from 51 p.c. to 45.5 p.c.
Loans secured on mortgage increased by
£18,858,261 and on policies, etc., by
£1,231,781.
Company investments were up
£6,636,413, of which £5,977,128 was
represented by debentures. Freehold
properties, etc., entered at cost less
depreciation, were £1,864,365 higher.
The society’s land - development
scheme in South Australia continues to
make progress. An additional 25 farms
were transferred to individual settlers
last year, making 55 farms so far allotted,
and it is planned to make available over
30 more farms in 1956.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd.
r T'HE Australian drinkers’ liking for
beer has long provided brewers (and
Governments) with a steady source of
income, and statistics indicate that the
beer-drinking habit is increasing in
popularity, or perhaps being undertaken
with greater zeal, for production, which
averaged 11.7 gallons a person over the
three years ending in 1939, rose to 24.3
gallons a head for the year to June, 1955,
with every indication of a slight increase
during the year just completed. The
current year will be subject to the
influence of the March excise-increases,
which have for the moment hit beer-
sales in other States.
To meet the higher demand, Queens-
land Brewery, Ltd., has added new build-
ings and plant to its two breweries,
Brisbane and Toowoomba, while secur-
ing a continued flow of trade by improv-
ing and extending its chain of hotels.
The assets of the co. have almost
doubled since 1951, and paid capital,
unchanged for the 12 years prior to that,
has increased by £753,334 to £2 million,
with another £750,000 to be added over
the next 12 months. This latest issue will
be on a 3-for-8 basis, holders of the
199,234 £1 5i p.c. prefs. participating,
as they have in all new issues.
Formed to take over an existing co.
68 years ago, Queensland Brewery holds
several wine and spirit agencies, and
shares with Castlemaine Perkins, the
other major northern brewer, the bulk of
the Queensland trade.
Power-rationing early in 1956 had
some effect on production at the Brisbane
brewery, but the directors regard the
(undisclosed) turnover for the year ended
June 30 as “satisfactory.” To enable
extensions to the Brisbane plant, the co.
bought adjacent premises, and £39,543
of the demolition and alteration costs
has been charged to depreciation, which
brings the charge for the term to £133,542
(up £37,479). A net profit of £207,295
(down £6490) is claimed after making
unstated provisions for contingencies and
taxation:
i —Dividends— N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6$ p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
1951. .128,267 10,958 78,820 43,979 432,197
1952., 127,780 10,958 76,295 40,477 472,674
1963. .138,554 10,958 84,449 43,147 515,821
From contingencies prov., £lOO,OOO 616,821
Profit sale assets, £10,365 .. .. 626,186
8 p.c.
1954.. 180,048 10,958 108,850 60,740 686,926
Profit sale assets, £18,700 .. 705,626
From contingencies prov., £lOO,OOO 805,626
1965. .213,785 10,958 132,167 70,668 876,294
1956. .207,295 10,958 144,061 52,276 928,570
Utilising the £2-million capital for the
full year, an extra £11,904 was required
for the 8 p.c. div., but this was easily
found as earnings covered the pref. div.
and 10.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 12.3, 12.5, 10.6, 10.7 and 11.2 p.c.
bacje to 1951. Profits have been conserva-
tively stated in the past (£200,000 coming
from inner reserves in the two preceding
terms), and there is no indication of a
change in this policy.
The growth of fixed assets has con-
tinued during the term, an increase of
£430,473 lifting the total to £3,274,654,
over £1.5 million above the 1950 figure.
The annual report and published
accounts show fixed assets in total, giving
no information as to the individual values
of the plant, breweries, freehold hotels,
etc., that make up this item (which is
valued at cost, less depreciation). Nor
is any reference made to the increase of
£507,497 in secured creditors, which,
with retained earnings and new capital,
has provided the funds necessary for
the increase in stocks (up £155,461) and
debtors (up £43,352) as well as fixed
assets:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £199,234 £199,234 £199,234
Ord 1,354,377 1,800,766 1,800,766
Reserves .. .. 686,925 876,294 928,570
Creditors .. .. 921,632 665,145 1,242,155
Final divs. .. 66,426 77,510 77,510
£3,228,594 £3,618,949 £4,248,235
Brewery, hotels,
plant, etc. . . 2,518,740 2,844,181 3,274,654
Stocks . . . . 441,785 485,026 640,487
Book debts . . 260,929 282,602 325,954
Investments .. 7,140 7,140 7,140
£3,228,594 £3,618,949 £4,248,235
Further extensions to premises are
planned, or in progress, recent purchases
bringing the entire block in which the
Brisbane brewery is situated under the
control of the co., so that the effect of
the new capital on the high outside
liabilities is uncertain.
The £1 ords. have changed hands
recently at 275. 9d., giving rights a
theoretical value of ss. Bd. At the ex-
rights price of 255. Bd. an 8 p.c. distri-
bution would return 6.4 p.c. The 5| p.c.
prefs. at 20s. 6d. provide a cheaper means
of entry into the co. through the new
issue, but without any substantial differ-
ence in yield. The prefs. have a net
tangible backing of £l4 145., the existing
ords. being covered to the extent of
30s. 4d.
Meggitt, Ltd.
COR many years after it first kicked-
A off in 1911, the main problem faced
by Meggitt, Ltd., was the disposal of the
large quantities of oil turned out in the
process of crushing linseed along with the
linseed meal, for which demand was
widespread as stockfood. That difficulty
was overcome when the co. successfully
induced Michael Nairn, the Scottish
linoleum-makers, to set-up in Australia,
and by the arrangement with Blundell
Spence, the big U.K. oil-merchant, to use
its well-known trade-marks on the local
market.
Now oil has become an important, if
not the major, factor in earnings, but new
difficulties have arisen since the war m
getting supplies of linseed from abroad
(mostly India) to keep crushing-plants
busy. Because of plant-diseases, insect-
pests and fluctuating world prices, to
which the local price is tied, Meggitt has
had only limited success so far in foster-
ing growth of linseed in Australia. To
offset the effect of this on earnings, the
co. has modernised and extended oil-
refining capacity of its mills (there are
four, located in N.S.W., Victoria, S.A.,
and Queensland) to treat bigger quantities
of raw linseed-oil, imported in bulk to
reduce handling-costs, from India and
South America.
Last term, helped along by partial
resumption of crushing-operations using
locally-grown seed, net profit jumped
£13,647 to £85,111:
< Dividends
Pref. Re-
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. servea.t
£ £ £ £
To staff fund, £5OOO 7,250
1951.. 66,593 4000 10 p.c. = 36,918 22,925
1962.. 51,939 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 33,946
1953.. 53,933 4000 10 „ „ 36,918 46,961
1954.. 62,485 4000 12$ „ „ 46,148 69,298
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 49,298
From inner reserves, £115,748 .. 165,046
1955.. 71,464 4000 15 p.c. 55,378 177,132
From inner reserves, £160,000 .. 327,132
1956.. 85,111 4000 15 p.c. = 55,377 352,866
t After deducting goodwill (£116,748), which was
written out of the accounts in 1955.
Written after making unspecified pro-
visions for income-tax and special con-
tingencies and writing-off £32,445 (up
£2596) depreciation, the £85,111 was
enough to cover the pref. charges and
show 21.9 p.c. on ordinary capital, as
against 18.2 p.c. in 1955 and 15.8 p.c.,
13.5 p.c., 13 p.c. and 14.3 p.c. back to
1951. The ord. div. was held at 15 p.c.
The lift in the div.-rate to 15 p.c. in 1955
and the bringing to light in the same year
of £115,748 from inner reserves, followed,
last term, by the disclosure of another
£150,000 from the same source, indicates
that the board is reasonably satisfied with
the co.’s progress. Because of import-
restrictions, however, directors are not
without their doubts about the current
term, but a much broader linseed-planting
programme is being sponsored among
Australian growers and an estimated
115,000 acres will be sown this season
as against only 50,000 acres last year.
After spending £12,722 on fixed assets,
adding £298,595 to stocks (£803,680) and
£46,363 to debtors (£330,753) the co.
still had a comfortable lining of cash,
bonds, etc., of £242,835:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £40,000 £40,000 £40,000
Ord. . . .. 369,182 369,182 369,182
Reserves . . . . 165,046 177,131 352,866
Deprec. reserve . . 332,595 360,279 389,053
Sundry creditors*. 803,616 981,126 778,123
Staff fund . . 39,000 39,000 39,000
Final divs. . . 29,689 38,919 38,918
£1.779,128 £2,005,637 £2,007,142
Land, buildings .. 152,964 154,834 159;771
Plant . . . . 409,392 419,067 426,852
Shares .. .. 43,251 43,251 43,251
Stocks .. .. 329,291 505,085 803,680
Debtors . . . . 173,755 284,390 330,753
Cash, bonds, etc... 554,727 599,010 242,835
Goodwill .. .. 115,748
£1,779,128 £2,005,637 £2,007,142
* Includes unspecified provisions.
Owing chiefly to the transfer during the
year of surplus provisions, current
liabilities were down £203,004, leaving
the working-capital surplus £191,787
stronger at £521,227.
On ’Change the £1 ords. fetch about
48s. to show a return of 6.2 p.c. on a


ENGINEER
GOVERNMENT OF
NORTH BORNEO
The Government of North Borneo
have a vacancy for an Executive
Engineer in the Drainage and Irriga-
tion Branch of the North Borneo
Public Works Department.
DUTIES
Duties of the office will comprise
assisting the senior Executive
Engineer in the investigation, design
and construction of drainage., irriga-
tion and river control schemes,
preparation of contract documents,
plans and estimates and general
supervision and control of such
works carried out either by contract
or by direct labour. He will also he
responsible for the control and dis-
cipline of departmental staff serving
directly under him. Should the
exigencies of the service require it,
he may be called upon to perform
similar duties in respect of other
types of Civil Engineering Works.
QUALIFICATION S
Candidates should be 25 years of
age or over and should have passed
Parts A and B of the Examination
for Associate Membership of the
Institution of Civil Engineers, or
possess equivalent qualifications.
They should have had at least three
years’ recognised practical experi-
ence. - /
CONTRACT PERIOD
The appointment is on contract
for three years and is non-pension-
able. The salary will be £A2,397 10s.
per annum. A cost of living allow-
ance of £A24 10s. per annum will be
paid to a married man with children.
On satisfactory completion of the
contract a gratuity of £A47 will be
payable for each completed period
of three months’ service.
Leave is granted at the rate of
four days for every month of
resident service to an officer under
33 years of age, and at the rate of
five days to an officer 33 years of
age or over.
FREE PASSAGES
Free first-class passages are pro-
vided for the officer and his family.
Simply furnished quarters are pro-
vided at a monthly rental of about
£A7 ss. fid.
Medical attention is frfee.
Application forms and full details
of conditions of service are obtain-
able on request from Professor
Z. Cowen, Commonwealth Liaison
Officer for Colonial Appointments,
University of Melbourne, Carlton,
N. 3, Victoria.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches ana Agencies throughout
the World.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
I m m
V A
7
/o
registered
first
MORTGAGE
debenture
SfOCK
O
Pf * annum
FOR 5 YE ARs
wMtmteed c/m
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £39,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and
Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and Australia’s
Leading Hire Purchase Organisation—
-16.8.56
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
LTSAGHT
10,000 GAL
water tanks
READY TO
ASSEMBLE
TALL
14' 4” diam.
10 7" high
ORB
ft
<ks-x 4^
-s .
SQUAT
19’ 1" diam.
6' 5" high
PRICES
WV‘ Dio. 19'I" Dia.
107" High 6'5" High
BASIC UNIT comprising wall
sheets, jointing material, bolts,
nuts and washers, outlet fitting
and special tools _____
£ll4 £9O
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
STEEL BASE comprising base
sheets, solder, sludge outlet
fitting and special tools
£3B £56
OR—
CONCRETE BASE by cement-
penetrant method. All materials
supplied except cement, sand
land aggregate
£43 £67
Overflow unit available at slight extra cost.
OTHER LYSAGHT
WATER TANKS
25,000 Gallons —£295
50,000 —£4ls
75,000 „ £520
100,000 „ —£s9o
Prices F.O.R.
Newcastle
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LTD., NEWCASTLE
OR JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
15 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
asset cover, excluding depreci-
ation reserve, is £3B Is. sd. first
prefs., £37 Is. sd. seconds, and
395. Id. ords.
Dennys, Lascelles (Geelong)
AFTER 35 rather colorless
years, the post-war boom in
the wool trade brought new life
to this old - established co.
Reserves more than quadrupled
over the 10 years to 1956, while
divs. averaged 14.8 p.c., com-
pared with around 5 p.c. for the
previous decade. In business as
woolbroker and stock-and-
station agent, the co.’s head-
quarters are at Geelong (Vic.),
with branches spread throughout
Victoria and the N.S.W. Riverina.
A 2-for-5 par issue in March,
1955, brought paid capital to its
present total of £546,000 in £1
shares.
Assisted by a good season over
the whole of its territory, the co.
sold, at lower but profitable
prices, a record 107,242 bales of
wool, 4229 more than in the
previous term, while sales of
sheep, cattle and land were well
maintained. Gross earnings rose
by £36,830 (to £815,869), but
increased expenses absorbed all
that, and more, forcing net profit
down £15,309 to £132,644 after
providing £98,000 (up £7000) for
taxation at higher rates and
allowing £30,216 (up £668) for
depreciation:
Re-
June, Profit. , —Dividends— N serves.*
£ £ £
1954. .132,617 20 p.c. = 78,000 379,644
Profit sale assets, etc., £7593 387,237
Tax overprovided, £420 . . 387,657
Unexpl’d addition, £415 . . 388,072
1955. .147,953 171p.c.= 87,750 448,275
Profit sale assets, £4409 . . 452,684
Depreciation bonds, £1406 .. 451,278
Staff fund, £2OOO . . • . 449,278
Tax overprovided, £lOB2 .. 450,360
1956. .132,644 16 p.c. = 87,360 495,644
* Subject to intangibles, £83,428 at
80/6/’56.
The 16 p.c. div. was comfortably
covered by earnings equal to
24.3 p.c. on capital, compared
with 27.1, 34, 25.7 and 17.3 p.c.
back to 1952.
In 1955 independent valu-
ations of the co.’s principal
Geelong freeholds indicated a
market-value at least £500,000
above the cost, less depreciation
figure shown in the balance-
sheet. With disclosed reserves of
£495,644, shareholders, whilst
enjoying a high degree of
security, may hope for some
future capital-gain.
Continuing the steady expan-
sion noted in recent years,
property adjacent to one of the
co.’s Geelong stores was acquired
during the term, the book-value
of freeholds increasing by
£78,884:
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £546,000 £546,000
Reserves .. .. 448,275 495,644
Creditors; etc. . . 204,007 231,308
Staff funds . . 44,320 46,320
Tax provision . . 91,000 98,000
Final div. . • 68,250 60,000
£1,401,852 £1,477,332
Freeholds .. .. 307,623 386,507
Plant, etc. *. " 82,056 82,642
Stock .. .. 54,655 36,087
Debtors .. .. 547,353 702,998
Cash, etc. .. 326,737 185,670
Goodwill .. . . 83,428 83,428
£1,401,852 £1,477,332
Heavier advances following
lower wool-prices would account,
in part, for the steep rise in
debtors, £155,645 higher at
£702,998. Holdings of cash and
bonds fell by £141,067, while
stocks were down £18,568.
There are signs that the
current year may see an improve-
ment in woolrprices, with a con-
sequent strengthening of the
co.’s earnings, provided, of
course, that increasing manage-
ment-expenses can be kept
within reasonable limits.
Supported by net tangible
assets of 355. Id., the £1 shares
at 40s. 9d. return 7.8 p.c.
Swans, Ltd.
A CUT of 2} p.c. (to 10 p.c.)
C*- in the ordinary dividend-rate
following a less profitable show-
ing by builders’ - hardware
merchant Swans, Ltd., in 1955-
56 took the sharemarket by sur-
prise, and last week, after sales
of up to 445. in July, the shares
were bringing only 38s. At the
lower figure the yield from the
scrip on a 10 p.c. div. basis
would be 5.2 p.c. Cover pro-
vided by net tangibles is £36 13s.
the prefs., 325. 3d. the ords.
A fairly full level of commer-
cial-building activity apparently
encouraged the investment
market, despite the slackness in
housing, and on the figures its
judgment on that score alone
would not have been far wrong ;
but the extra ls.-in-the-£ tax had
to be met, and on the increased
capital net profit claimed, after
allowing for the pref. charges,
was only 16.8 p.c., as against
20.2 p.c., 23.5 p.c., 22.1 p.c.,
22.9 p.c., 20.4 p.c. and 28.9 p.c.
back to 1950: —
f Dividends N Re-
May, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1960.. 44.602 6 15 23,829 148,547
Revaluation assets, £66,071.. 214,618
Res. capitalised. £101,192.. 113,426
1951.. 63,787 6 15 36,146 141,067
1952.. 70,668 6 12 J 39,227 172,498
1953.. 68,328 6 12i 39,226 201,600
1954.. 72,442 6 12J 39,227 234,815
1955.. 80,125 6 12| 48,642 266,298
Share-premiums, £49,839 . . 316,137
To staff fund, £lO,OOO . . 306,137
1956.. 82,797 6 10 49,862 339,072
In all, Federal income-tax took
another £20,000 (the total pro-
vision for the year was not dis-
closed) and an extra £2715
(£9539) depreciation was written
off, leaving profit only £2672
stronger at £82,797. That leaves
out of reckoning £49,839 of
share-premiums and £lO,OOO set
aside for employees’ long-service
leave and retiring allowances.
During the year the co.
widened its spread in Sydney’s
suburbs with the acquisition of
the hardware business of Lasco
Pty., Ltd., at Chatswood, on the
North Shore. Plans are being
prepared for a modern ware-
house on the site.
Other branches have been
established in and around Syd-
ney at Hurstville and Parra-
matta, and at Mascot, where a
bulk-store and garage was
opened the term before last. In
1955 a new branch was estab-
lished in the expanding industrial
centre of Wollongong, on the
N.S.W. South Coast. It is
reported to be trading well up to
the co.’s expectations.
Balance - sheet movements
reflect the £99,677 new ordinary
capital introduced (at a 50 p.c.
premium) during the year and
all-round additions to freeholds
and plant (up £34,166), stocks
(up £24,539 to £541,215), debtors
(up £36,720 to £332,363) and
cash (up £60,479):
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 452,467 652,144
Reserves . . .. 266,298 339,072
Creditors .. .. 275,804 238,157
Staff fund .. 10,000
Tax provision .. 66,130 73,544
Final divs. .. 82,802 26,488
£1,108,601 £1,264,405
Freeholds, plant,
etc. .. .. 287,193 321,359
Stocks . . . . 516,676 641,215
Debtors . . .. 295,643 332,363
Cash and invest-
ments .. .. 8,989 69,468
£1,108,601 £1,264,405
The working-capital position
was further strengthened. By
the end of the term on May 31
another £138,285 was added to
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£594,857) and the ratio of
current assets to liabilities stood
at better than 2.7 to one. For
every pound of shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves) out-
side money used in the business
amounted to only 7s. lid.
Bauxite on Cape York
Enterprise explora-
tion Co. Pty., Ltd., a sub-
sidiary of Consolidated Zinc
Corporation, Ltd., has discovered
“a huge deposit of bauxite” on
the Gulf side of the Cape York
Peninsula (Q.). Hundreds of
millions of tons of this ore (from
which aluminium is derived and
refined) are reported to cover an
area of around a thousand square
miles in from the Weipa River
mission, near Albatross Bay, in
the aboriginal reserve.
Full tonnage and grade are
not yet certain, but W. S.
Robinson, father of L. B.
Robinson (chairman of Consoli-
dated Zinc, who made details of
the discovery available), recently
said that “within the past few
weeks, what appears to be one
of the world’s greatest bauxite
fields has been discovered. When
this can be married either to
nuclear power or to power de-
veloped from gas or oil, Aus-
tralia will enter the lists of the
world’s greatest aluminium-
producers.”
Assuming that the bauxite is of
the grade and in the dimensions
indicated, power will certainly
be a potent factor in the
economics of the project.
Canada is the world’s leading
producer of aluminium not
merely because it has bauxite
but because it is the second-
largest producer of hydro-
electricity in the world. One of
the greatest costs in producing
refined aluminium is power.
At the present time Australia’s
power costs are particularly high.
But New Guinea water-power, if
it could be harnessed, might
have possibilities. Or (perhaps?)
Kura gas?


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
The reception-room at the Town Hall
was magnificently decorated with large
bowls of colorful blossom and early
spring flowers for the reception given by
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Sir Frank and Lady Selleck) to welcome
home the Premier and Mrs. Bolte. The
receptions at the Town Hall are always
in the highest traditions of hospitality,
but this one was almost ruined by the
lengthy speeches.
Lady Selleck wore a soft grey woollen
frock which had a draped skirt; her
little hat glittered with iridescent beads.
A black tailored suit, with a mink stole
and tiny black velvet cap, comprised
Mrs. Bolte’s ensemble. Mrs. A. G.
Rylah wore a small cornflower-blue cap
with her black wool-romaine frock.
Lady Herring was in the official party
with Sir Edmund, and with Sir Arthur
Warner was Lady Warner. Others noted
were Sir Frank and Lady Richardson,
Mrs. Leo Curtis, Sir John and Lady
Lienhop, Lady Grimwade, Mrs. Rupert
Downes, Mr. and Mrs. Keith Newman,
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside, the John
Inksters, U.S. Consul-General Gerald
Warner and Mrs. Warner and Austrian
Consul A. Berger and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Comedy Theatre was packed for
the opening night of “The Reluctant
Debutante,” which stars Ursula Jeans
and Roger Livesey. Noted in the audience
were the Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck),
who wore a gown in periwinkle-blue
French-tissue, the bodice of which was
embroidered in matching blue beads ;
Mrs. W. K. Burnside, whose grey gown
printed in large golden roses was worn
with a white Arctic-fox stole; Lady
Warner, her pale-grey taffeta frock having
a full, ruched skirt; Mrs. L. Hartnett, in
deep-midnight-blue satins; Mrs. Ron
Marriott, who allied a short-sleeved
bodice of lime-green velvet to a short,
full skirt of dark-brown minkette ; Mrs.
John Woodhouse, who covered her white
silk quilted frock with a scarlet satin
evening-coat; Lady Tait, in green velvet
theatre-coat banded with white ermine;
Eileen Brennan, whose theatre-coat of
rose-red satin was embroidered with
sequins ; and Mrs. Peter Grey, in a short
grey satin coat embroidered with clusters
of silver sequins.
☆ ☆ ☆
In one of the most exciting fashion-
shows of the season, that of Le Louvre,
of Collins-street, there were models and
copy-models of famous Paris designers
Jean Patou, Christian Dior, Pierre
Balmain and Hubert de Givenchy,
Schuberth, of Italy, and Clare McCardel,
of New York.
It was seen that the waistline may move
according to the type of gown, and that
the sheath-frock is just as popular as the
wide-skirted one. But the sheath-frock
has one advantage: there is always a
smart little matching-jacket, which in
most cases is full and finishes inches
above the waist. This is a departure from
last season’s silhouette, wherein the jacket
worn with a frock was either fitted or
hanging loose, and finishing just above
or below the hips.
There were smooth silk-surahs, silk-
taffetas of paperweight texture and with
a delightful rustle, gossamer-laces, heavy
satins with a mirrorlike surface, , and
polished-cottons that look like satin. One
of the most attractive day-dresses—a de
Givenchy model—was in navy white-
spotted silk-surah. The skirt featured a
sideways drape, finished at one hip with a
large, flat, white-pique bow. The bodice
was cleverly cut high in front, but widely
slit at the back. In direct contrast was
Balmain’s white embroidered - linen
sheath-frock worn with a tiny square-cut
jacket. Worn it was a large straw
hat, which had a high crown draped with
white chiffon.
One of the loveliest formal frocks was
a Le Louvre model of eggshell-blue' lace
mounted on taffeta and organza. The
high Empire-bodice was banded with blue
faille to match the blue silk-faille stole
trimmed with one large rose of the
material. Very much in the Empire
tradition was a„ loose-hanging sheath-
dress in heavy white lace, With Wedg-
wood-blue taffeta emphasising the high
waistline and falling in ends at- one side.
Made of satin in a lovely soft shade of
amethyst, a dance-frock featured a very
wide lampshade-skirt, with a looping of
the satin trimming it just above the hem ;
the bodice was strapless.
Dior’s original was shown in a billow-
ing dance-gown which featured a pea-
cock-hemline, of white pure-silk taffeta
with a blurred-pattern of long-stemmed
pastel roses. Schuberth was represented
by his Savoia-blue taffeta late-afternoon
dress, with a very full ruched skirt,
tailored bodice and deep white-pique
collar—an unusual finish to a taffeta
frock. From Clare McCardel came a
sheath-dress of pure-silk-surah, navy
spotted in white. Covering up the deep
V-necked bodice was a swathed-stole
lined with plain vany-taffeta. Remove the
stole, and the sheath-frock becomes suit-
able for late-afternoon wear.
Georgina Shatin, wife of a doctor,
began painting as a diversion from house-
work four years ago, and has already held
two exhibitions. Her recent exhibition
at the Victorian Artists’ Society Gallery,
at which she showed 40 oil-paintings, was
very successful. Dr. and Mrs. Shatin
have one daughter, Christine, who is a
third-year nurse at a metropolitan hos-
pital. Mrs. Shatin’s sister, Tessa Small-
page, is a well-known singer now living
in the U.S.
Sir Edmund Herring, Lieut.-Governor
and Chief Justice, formally opened the
Kew Little Theatre in South Yarra. Chief-
Secretary A. G. Rylah was also on hand
to congratulate the directors on the
realisation of a dream, and Cr. Buchan
also spoke.
Irene Mitchell received many con-
gratulations for the decor of the theatre.
Chartreuse walls and pale-golden ceiling
with concealed lighting are contrasted
with touches of black and white, and a
frieze of white stars circles the walls.
The theatre will now seat 400 (only 110
in the old. theatre). The stage is much
larger than the old one, and an electronic
board controls the lights. There is aft
orchestra-pit, and the modern dressing-
rooms are painted in attractive colors.
Table-tops in the dressing-rooms are
inlaid with corroboree motifs.
The opening was followed by Irene
Mitchell’s production of “Tiger at the
Gates.” Irene Mitchell covered her pale
Parma-violet satin gown with a gold
lame theatre-coat. Mrs. George Fair-
fax’s short bouffant frock was of white
embroidered Swiss-satin patterned in
palest-pink and grey, and swathed with
a matching pink and grey satin just above
the flared fullness below the knees. Mrs.
Peter Randall’s frock was of lemon
brocade; Mrs. Hal Percy wore full-
skirted blue laces and tulle.
☆ ☆ &
At the friendly and informal party
given by Netherlands Consul G. J. A.
Veling at his Toorak home the three large
reception-rooms were decorated with
spring-blossom and daffodils. Nether-
lands Navy Attache Captain A. H. W.
Von Freytag Drabbe was present with
his wife (she wearing a silver-blue mink
stole with her black suit and tiny winter-
white hat). Others enjoying Dutch hospi-
tality were Mr. and Mrs. Norman
Robinson, Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth
McLean, Mr. and Mrs. W. Pultney Mein,
Mr. and Mrs. John Reilly, Y.W.C.A.
president Mrs. T. C. RentouJ and
secretary Miss E. Woodward, Mrs.
Claudia Creswick, Mrs. W. Burrough,
Mr. P. J. Lynch, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Way, and Mr. and Mrs. John Heath.
SYDNEY
The sky is blue in Sydney at present,
the sun is shining and spring is just
around the corner (sheltering from the
bitterly cold wind).
By October, however, spring should
really have got into her stride, providing
flowers in plenty for Sydney’s first
Waratah Festival, which is to be an
annual affair. In the matter of flower-
festivals Sydney has lagged far behind
such towns as Grafton (Jacaranda),
Goulburn (Lilac), Orange (Cherry-
blossom), etc., but it is to be quite different
in future.
The highlight of the festival in Sydney
is to be a procession on October 13, with
40 flower-decked floats, 300 marchers
and 26 bands, and for a fortnight before-
hand the city will be building up to a
suitable mood with dances, concerts,
sporting-events and the visual stimulus
of flowers, flags and bunting decorating
streets, shops and offices.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two first-nights during the week
brought out fur-coats by the dozen. At
“Kismet,” showing at the Empire, the
splendor of the staging quite dimmed
the dressing in the audience. The biggest
laugh of the evening came at the begin-
ning, when, with a roll of drums, the
orchestra seemed to be introducing the
National Anthem, and all the audience
sprang to its feet, only to sit down again
immediately as the orchestra went on to
the music of Borodin. Someone said that
this happened every night in Melbourne,
where the show ran for nine months.
“Sailor Beware,” at the Royal, opened
on Thursday, and the audience laughed
so much that their teeth stopped chatter-
ing for the first time during the week.
Fur-coats mostly stayed on during the
performance, which makes for a
luxurious-looking audience but not a vivid
one. Noted, however, Mrs. H. J. Brady’s
full-length red coat as a brilliant spot of
color, the lovely posy of daffodils worn
by Mrs. Raymond Beatty, Miss Vera
Allen’s fairytale pink dress, and Mrs.
Cedric Symonds’s elegant dress of green
delustred satin.
Lome Campbell is to play the part of
Mary in the production by the Genesian
Theatre of T. S. Eliot’s “The Family
Reunion.” This play is at present having
a very successful season in London, where
Gwen Ffrangcon-Davies is playing the
part taken here by Lome. The Genesians
have already won a reputation for the
fineness of their presentation of the Eliot
plays ‘‘Murder in the Cathedral” and
‘‘The Cocktail Party.” Their new produc-
tion should create great interest, as “The
Family Reunion,” written in 1939, is said
to mark a turning-point in the history of
English dramatic-poetry. It is to open at
the Genesians’ Kent-street Theatre on
Friday, August 31. The set, by Charles
McKervey, is said to be particularly
striking.
Two Eyes and a Passport is the engag-
ing title of a book which has come the
way of this Letter during the week. It
is written by Alice L. Nettleton, a lady
from Warrawee, who with her husband
made a trip to Britain for the Corona-
tion-year and took in three visits to the
Continent, with England as their jumping-
off ground. Mrs. Nettleton has carefully
noted every little thing of interest during
their travels, and has set it all down
with simplicity and clarity. Homely
items which might escape the eye of a
more ambitious traveller pepper the
narrative: how, for instance, she saw a
whole bed of onion-weed in full bloom
in Kew Gardens; how the rubber-
cushioned seats at the Stratford-on-Avon
Theatre cost only 6s. each and opera-
glasses could be hired for sixpence ; how,
in addition to first-aid people at the
procession, there was a mobile animal-
surgery in case any of the pets were
hurt in the crush; how all the taxis in
Cupar, Scotland, are Rolls-Royces; and
so on. Many people who have made a
similar trip will have their memories
revived by Two Eyes and a Passport,
while those who have not been able to
travel the same route may do so
vicariously by reading the book.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fifty years of remarkable achievement
were commemorated at the annual meet-
ing of the Mater Misericordiae Hospital on
Sunday. When the hospital first started
in a cottage in Willoughby-road (where
the Royal North Shore Hospital also
started) there were a matron and four
trainee-nuns, one of whom, Sister Mary
Justinian, is the present matron, and has
been associated with the whole develop-
ment of the present impressive hospital.
Cardinal Gilroy, speaking at the meet-
ing, made a plea for the management of
money to be “left in the hands of the
women, who can make so much better
use of it than men can.” Tributes were
paid to the hospital and the sisters by the
chairman (Mr. Justice McClemens), State
Minister for Health W. F. Sheahan, the
Hon. Ken McCaw, and State Country-
party leader Colonel Bruxner. During
the afternoon over £BOO was donated
towards the hospital’s funds.
☆ ☆ ☆
The latest news from Vice-Admiral Sir
John Eaton and Lady Eaton, who have
so many friends in Sydney, is that they
will shortly make a return-visit to the
U.K. from Bermuda so that Sir John may
receive the accolade from the Queen her-
self. His K.8.E., it will be remembered,
was awarded, in the latest Birthday
Honors. In London they will also see
Lady Eaton’s daughter Virginia, who is
now Mrs. Christopher Kaye.
☆ ☆ ☆
English actress Jessie Matthews flew
into Sydney on a business visit during the
week. There is a rumor that she may
settle in Australia, and that she prefers
Perth because of the sunshine. Sydney or
Melbourne, however, might be the final
choice because of greater opportunities
in stage- and TV-work.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fashions newer than new will be seen
at the gala matinee at the Phillip-street
Theatre on September 14, for models by
topline French, English, Irish and Austra-
lian designers will be on show there six
months before Europe and the U.S. see
them. Specially designed in Sekers nylon
fabrics, they will be modelled by
Sydney’s ace-mannequins and shown in
conjunction with a stage-presentation by
the artists of the Phillip-street Theatre.
Tickets for the gala matinee are £1 55.,
proceeds being for the Eastern Suburbs
Subnormal Children’s Home. The dresses
will also be shown at David Jones’ for
one week from September 17.
# 4 V
The members of the Stock Exchange
Club are holding a dinner-dance at the
Australia Hotel on Thursday, September
20. It has been arranged purely for the
entertainment of members and their
friends. B. B. O’Conor is president of
the club and R. V. Buzacott hon.
secretary.
☆ ☆ ☆
Gladys Moncrieff is directing the
Spring Concert which is to be held at
the Town Hall on September 8 in aid of
the Chair of Australian Literature Fund,
and will herself be one of the artists
performing. Under vice-regal patronage,
the concert is being organised by Lady
Br-addon, and the producer is Wilson
Irving. The list of performers, which
also includes Virginia Paris, star ot
“South Pacific,” looks most impressive.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another interesting production will be
the Conservatorium Opera Schools
presentation of Mozart’s “Cosi Fan
Tutte,” which begins a season of five
performances on Thursday, September 6,
followed by performances on the Bth,
11th, 13th and 15th. The opera will be
presented with full orchestra, and win
be conducted by Dr. Noel Nickson.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
0
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
#
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH an©
LAUNCESTON
Faith lit th e
Future
Down in the south-eastern comer of South
Australia, between Adelaide and Mount Gambier,
on the Ninety-Mile Plain, is a town called Keith.
In appearance it is no more written to the
specifications of romance than thousands of other
Australian towns. But - wrapped round it is the
story of one of the most dramatic achievements we
can claim in all our national histoiy.
It is in an area famous now for the remarkable
results that have been won there by the addition
of trace elements to the soil.
I recently visited Keith. It amazed me, the
transformation, within a few years, of once “desert”
country to a landscape of flourishing farms.
I walked across areas lush with the growth of
pastures sprung from the addition of copper and
zinc salts—-at the cost of a few shillings an acre
—and saw, on the other side of the fence, untreated
tracts that were sandy and stunted: what the
bushman calls “bandicoot country.”
I saw sheep and cattle fat to the feeding; areas
carrying two sheep to the acre where once they
carried one sheep to ten acres.
And this, because the Australian Mutual
Provident Society had gone in there and applied
the knowledge that scientists had been gathering
for years on the soil’s deficiencies.
That an organisation like the A.M.P. should
show this developmental initiative is noteworthy;
as is the work of the C.5.1.R.0. and its trusty
research teams.
Elsewhere in Australia the infertility of much
of our pasture land is being tackled in a similar
way. Commonwealth and State officers are
collaborating. And agricultural scientists are able
to report officially that we have probably 300
million acres capable of supporting improved
pastures —ten times the maximum estimate of only
a few years ago.
You may understand, then, why I was happy
about my visit to Keith. I saw there what the
Future holds for Australia when Faith is
translated into confident action.
//
7
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Kismet”
It is always pleasant, to be
relieved of responsibilities, so
when the taxi-driver taking one
home after the opening of
“Kismet” moved from Mel-
bourne to Sydney Empire—
asked “How was the show?” and
then, as it is with barbers and
taxi-drivers, proceeded to tell us,
one gratefully bowed out to
his unquestionably accurate
summing-up.
“I saw it three times in Mel-
bourne,” he said as he slid
through the George - street
traffic. “It’s a great show. Did
you get that Morgan St. John
in those mosquito-net thingum-
mies? Man! And that little piece
who plays the poet’s daughter
and marries the Caliph.”
“Madge Stephen s,” we
prompted.
“Yair, yair. That’s her. Sweet
kid. She can sing, too.”
We ventured an opinion: “It
was rather hard to hear the
voices. Some of the songs
weren’t very clear and most of
the small-talk didn’t come over
at all.”
“You missed something,” he
said. “Heard it all in Melbourne.
Clear as crystal. There’s some
clinker songs in it. That
‘Stranger in Paradise’ —that gets
me. Then there’s that ‘Baubles,
Bangles and Beads’ they sing
in the market-place. And ‘Sands
of Time’ that’s the one the
missus likes. She saw it four
times.”
We repeated with a shade of
firmness, “It was difficult to hear
them.”
“It’s a funny thing, that,” he
said, as he paid the bridge-toll
and tossed the tickets out the
window. “Same thing happened
with ‘Can-Can’—they heard it
in Melbourne, but the words
didn’t come over in Sydney.
Bloke from the Elizabethan was
telling me. The acoustics aren’t
too good in the Empire, and
when the orchestra turns it on
full-bore the singers haven’t a
chance. Should do something
about it.”
“You could hear some of
them,” we said in defence of
the orchestra and the theatre.
“John Young, for instance, in
‘Was I Wazir?’ ”
“Yair, yair,” he said. “But
he’s an opera-singer. Knows how
to give out. Good, wasn’t he?”
“He was,” we agreed. “Very
good.”
“And did you get Hayes
Gordon, the bloke who played
the poet? Terrific, wasn’t he?”
“Mr. Gordon’s voice didn’t
seem to have enough strength to
combat with the orchestra,” we
noted. “But he certainly had
plenty of agility and per-
sonality.”
“That’s right,” said the taxi-
driver. “Colorful sort of bloke.
Did you get him when he
drowned the Wazir in the bath-
tub, or well, or whatever it was?”
“A fitting end to his villainy,”
we agreed.
The taxi-driver relapsed into
reflective silence for half-a-mile.
Then, “But it is a good show,
isn’t it? That’s the sort of thing
I like. Plenty of music, slap-up
settings and costumes and
plenty of hot sorts. Did you get
those three little dark pieces who
did those Indian dances?”
“We saw them, and thought
they were very cute little
numbers —if that’s what you
mean by ‘getting them,’ ” we
said.
“Yair, yair,” he said. “That’s
what I mean. Man !”
♦Jt <£« $ ’
“The Gondoliers”
The curtain at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s went up as for nearly
75 years a curtain has gone up
every night on a Gilbert and
Sullivan opera in some city
inhabited by English-speaking
people, and the fun started. The
orchestra, raised on its toes by
Mr. Leo Packer, struck-up its
music, more-or-less reminiscent
of Mozart, and the chorus,
tuned-up by conductor Richard
Walker, took its traditional
positions, made its traditional
gestures and smiled and nodded,
while the all-too-blue waters of
the Grand Canal gleamed behind
it. A gondola drew-up, and out
stepped the smiling gondolieri,
Messrs. Terence O’Donoghue
and Eric Thornton, and the
strains of “List and Learn” filled
the auditorium with sound and
every eye with tears.
The present commentator
looked round the crowded circle,
with its rows of expectant faces.
Although some 57 years have
passed since he first saw a curtain
rise on a Gilbert and Sullivan
opera, he felt positively young.
There wasn’t a teenager present.
Evidently the younger generation
are in a different, though not
necessarily a better, fashion, and
have no fancy for Sullivan’s
pseudo-Mozartian music and
Gilbert’s polysyllabic humor. It
was a fine joke once for the Duke
of Plaza Toro to turn himself
into a limited liability company
to pay his rates and taxes, but
so many dukes have done it since
in actual practice that the jest
has lost its savor . . .
But Mr. Ivan Menzies —beg
pardon, Mr. Grahame Clifford —
is demanding our attention. He is
digging Grand Inquisitor
Richard Watson in the ribs and
discovering to his consternation
that he wears a breastplate. He
repeats the operation' but this
time uses a stick, and every grey-
beard, including the present com-
mentator, dissolves in laughter.
Standing stiffly beside her liege
lord, Miss Muriel Brunskill is
glaring haughtily across the foot-
lights, reminding of not one but
of a hundred previous Duchesses
of Plaza Toro. There seems to
be something spontaneous and
of themselves coming from
Helen Roberts’s Gianetta and
Jane Martin’s Tessa which makes
one forget all the past Tessas
and Gianettas, but when Mr.
Terence O’Donoghue raises his
mellifluous tenor in “Take a
Pair of Sparkling Eyes” one finds
it difficult to make a judgment,
because the memory of a couple
of hundred other mellifluous
tenors stands between us and
appreciating its peculiar flavor.
*Z*
Sydney Opera Group
Sydney’s Metropolitan Theatre
closed its doors for the last time
on Saturday night, after the
Sydney Opera Group had pre-
sented a triple-bill of “intimate”
opera.
Pergolesi’s “La S e r v a
Padrona,” a one-act opera buffa,
served merely to show that the
18th-centUiry composer should
have stuck to the liturgical work
on which his fame now rests. He
shows little feeling for the
theatre; the recitative-phrases
given the singers are dull and
unmelodious; and the comedy
about an Italian nobleman, his
pert maidservant and his half-
witted manservant is lumbering.
It gained little from the treat-
ment given it by Ross Wharton,
Joan Shute and William Hobbs.
Menotti’s one-act opera “The
Telephone,” with its smart crack
at the instrument which can be
a tyrant in our lives, was given
a gay workout by Rae Candy
and Kevin Mills.
A truer measure of the group’s
artistic development was
revealed in the same composer’s
two-act music-drama “The
Medium.” Judith Staff’s work
in the title-role was extra-
ordinarily good. In the second
act, wherein, fearful that she
herself is becoming victim to
supernatural forces, she wreaks
her fury on the dumb boy-
assistant, Miss Staff projected
intense emotion with the utmost
conviction, and her contralto
matched her acting.
“Book of the Month”
“Book of the Month,” by Basil
Thomas, concerns an English
M.P.’s precocious daughter who
writes a novel which immediately
becomes a best-seller, not
because of any literary merit, but
entirely through its sensa-
tionalism. Unfortunately, the
characters in her sordid melo-
drama are only too readily
recognisable as members of her
highly respectable domestic
circle, at that moment trembling
on the verge of inclusion in an
honors-list.
The highlight of J e.a n
Trundle’s production for the
Brisbane Arts Theatre was the
ingenious central section when
the family circle enacts the
passionate, melodramatic plot of
the book. Unfortunately, the
remainder of the piece lacked the
tension of this inset, and a badly
written, overlong third act
weakened the impact of the pre-
ceding two.
Acting honors went to Berys
Marshall and Rose Duclos, as
the precocious novelist and her
aunt respectively.
V.V.
Artbursts
A South Australian
Showing his watercolors at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries,
Duncan Goldfinch is a South
Australian yvho has been long
in the field ; ex-president of the
S.A. Society of Arts. His sub-
jects, all landscape, range from
the coast to the centre in Aus-
tralia and to Spain and the
British Isles.
He seems a man of two minds:
one where he makes a precise
little statement of fact, some-
times rather old-fashioned and
pretty-pretty, sometimes, as in
the picture of a ruined house in
the outback, pleasant in its
clarity ; and the other where he
lets his head and his colors go
and tries for a more decorative
effect.
The second is the more
perilous mood, but it pays-off
better. He gets some excellent
effects in the small landscape
with the curious white fore-
ground where the purple, cor-
rugated mountain looks like a
hippopotamus; in the other
small study of the sunlit white-
gums against a mountain-mass
rich with dark-green and purplish
ochre; and even in the larger
studies of desert-oaks marching
to the mountains, and the thistles
or everlastings, whichever they
may be, straggling tall in the
foreground with rolling hills
stretching to the distance.
♦t-
Mosman Art Prize
Entries for the 1956 Mosman
(N.S.W.) Art Prize close on
September 10. Prizes, to be
judged by Rah Fizelle, are 80gns.
for an oil, 40gns. for a water-
color and 25gns. for a drawing.
Details from the Town Clerk,
Mosman.
Talkies
“A Town Like Alice” (Sydney
State): Strong characterisation
and well - sustained dramatic
tensions lend distinction to this
screen adaptation of Nevil
Shute’s novel. Except for the
last few minutes, all the action
takes place in Malaya, where the
courage and adaptability of a
band of Englishwomen, forced to
wander from place to place
because no Jap commander
wants to be responsible for
them, is conveyed with high con-
viction. There is poignancy, too,
in several gripping episodes, as
in the scene in which Peter
Finch, as the Digger truckdriver,
is crucified for lifting a Jap
officer’s fowls to feed the starv-
ing white women.
Virginia McKenna gives a
highly intelligent performance as
the English girl who acts as
foster-mother to three orphaned
children, and who inspires the
other women to face their diffi-
culties with fortitude. Finch fits
his role with an easy aplomb.
The various Jap commanders
are portrayed convincingly in
character, ranging from the
coldly polite and formal to the
fanatic who regards a theft from
an officer of the Imperial
Japanese Army as a mortal
insult to the Bushido code of
honor.


Brigalow
By
R.S.
PORTEOUS
CHAPTER XXIX
THE grass was long and
green around the Brigalow
Yards, the wild-duck
floated contentedly on the
clear water of the lagoon, and
'the cattle standing in the deep
patches of shade along the creek
flats were sleek-coated and fat.
I know of no more beautiful
sight than a mob of good
Herefords standing brisket-deep
in green grass, some dappled
with sunlight, others deep in the
shadow of the overhanging trees.
Contrasting with the dark liver-
red of their bodies, the white
faces stand out with an entranc-
ing purity, and the white of their
flanks and bellies merges into the
soft green of the grass.
Driving out with the swags
and tucker in the tilly, while the
others followed with the horses,
I had time to pause and admire
them, to gloat over them as
patches of beauty completing a
forest landscape.
Later, when I mounted a horse,
I would see them as individuals
—a cow with a blemish of too
much or too little white for a
good Hereford, one with narrow
hips or cocked horns, a calf that
should have been branded last
muster, or a weaner left too
long with its mother.
I would note, with a cattle-
man’s instinct, that a certain cow
that normally watered at the
Junction Hole was now camped
alongside the Three Mile. Mick
had that instinct to a remarkable
degree. Give him a fleeting
glimpse of a mob vanishing into
dense turkey-bush, and he would
say afterwards:
“Did y’ see that fair lump of
a mickey with the ’igh tail and
no white on ’is flanks? Well, ’e
belongs to the cleanskin cow
Wonga threw the day you got
the buster off Fairy.”
The mickey may have been
only a calf then, a startled
youngster galloping through
thick scrub, but two years later
Mick would recognise him in the
shape of a hefty mickey. And
he was always right.
Although his reactions were
slower, Wonga had an equally
photographic memory for cattle.
In varying degrees we all had,
otherwise we could never have
made clean musters in that
heavily-timbered country. The
ability to note immediately what
cattle were in the mob and what
ones were missing was all-
important.
Strangely enough, although
Carson lacked it, Julie had it to
a degree second only to Mick’s.
/"YUR first day in the scrub
yielded nothing; we saw
nothing except a few tracks that
led us nowhere, and we heard
nothing except a few wallabies
thudding through the under-
growth.
The failure did nothing to
dampen our intense enthusiasm.
Bringing the horses out from the
homestead had delayed our start,
so that we had only taken an
optimistic swing through the
nearest section of scrub.
And there was always
tomorrow—tomorrow with its
lure of the unknown, a hidden
promise that could always make
us forget our failures and look
eagerly ahead. Tomorrow we
would take a mob of coaches in
and work to a definite, infallible
plan.
Plans for snaring scrubbers
are always infallible—until the
scrubbers take a hand.
We sat late around the camp-
fire that night, reliving the past
and planning the future. Jack
Stewart amused himself by being
sceptical in an effort to take a
rise out of Mick. He claimed
to have been lured over to Yaka-
parni under false pretences, said
he doubted whether there were
any cattle in the scrubs, and
that if we did strike any they’d
turn out to be a few quiet old
milkers that wouldn’t even run.
“They’ll run all right,” Mick
laughed. “When we strike the
first mob you won’t even see
which way we went.”
“Your scrubs are open country
compared with the big Dawson
scrubs where / learned the
game,” Jack boasted. “Why, it’s
so thick over there that when you
grab a tail to throw a beast you
can’t see whether you’ve got
hold of a bull or a heifer.”
“We’ll show y’ some thick
stuff t’morrer.” Mick was fight-
ing hard for the honor of Yaka-
parni, but Jack got in the last
word.
“You just follow my tracks,”
he said. “I’ll have the mob
steadied down for you by the
time you catch up.”
Undoubtedly there would be
a wild scramble for the lead
when we struck the first mob.
r T"'HE horses were in the yard
and we had finished
breakfast and cut our lunches
when daylight came.
As always in the early morn-
ing, we were silent. The time
for bragging ended with the
dawn. Daylight was a time for
action, a time to make good
those boasts so recklessly tossed
around the campfire at night.
We saddled our horses,
mounted, and filed out through
the rails, seven purposeful riders
and two eager dogs. Much, I
felt, would depend on those two
dogs.
Between the yards and the
edge of the scrub we picked-up
about fifty-head of quiet cattle
for coaches. A great deal yvould
also depend on them.
The broad plan, endlessly dis-
cussed the night before, was to
drive the coaches through the
scrub, following a cattle-pad to
a waterhole on the edge of the
biggest plain. If we saw no cattle
on the way we would camp them
there and scour the surrounding
scrub. If we struck cattle on
the way Wonga and Tommy
would stay with the. coaches
while the rest of us took after
the scrubbers and endeavored
to swing them into the quiet
cattle.
Beyond that it was useless to
plan. From the moment the
first sticks began to crack
everything would depend on snap
judgment.
We entered the scrub as the
rising sun turned the silver-grey
of the brigalow to a warm gold.
Jack and Mick rode together in
the lead, Wonga and Tommy
kept the tail going, and the rest
of us stayed on the wings ready
to take-off at the first sign of
movement.
No one spoke. The only
sounds were the occasional
snapping of sticks as horses or
cattle trampled on them.
No one smoked. In that calm
morning air the smell of a burn-
ing cigarette could easily warn
the scrubbers before they saw
or heard us.
Once Mick turned in his
saddle, pointed to the ground
and made a sweeping forward
motion with his arm. I nodded.
He and Jack were following
tracks, and the cattle that had
made them were heading in the
same direction as we were.
We rode through patches of
partially open brigalow, where
it was possible to see a few
hundred yards through the grey
tree-trunks; we skirted vast
areas of turkey-bush, that almost
impenetrable home of the
wallaby and the scrub-turkey.
We picked our way through
the melonhole-country, where
fallen logs crisscrossed the
shallow depressions and bright
green wilga-bushes fought with
the prickly-pear for every
square-foot of ground.
Everything grew in profusion
here wild - limes, young
brigalow, pear, bulbous-stemmed
bottle - trees and countless
unnamed shrubs. Savage lawyer-
vines draped their thorny lengths
from tree to tree, and high
overhead the interlocking
branches of the brigalow formed
a silver-grey canopy.
Savage, inhospitable country,
this, where none but a madman
would urge his horse faster than
a walking pace. Well, we were
all mad, or would be when the
scrubbers crashed away in
panic-stricken flight. As Mick
had said, where they went we
could follow.
That was the type of country
we were in when the two leading
horsemen reined sharply and
held up their hands. Within
seconds every man and beast had
come to a standstill; the men
because they had seen the signal,
and the coaches because they
were no longer being pressed
forward. This inhospitable
country was not to their liking.
Very cautiously I edged my
horse forward until I was knee-
to-knee with Jack.
“Cattle ahead,” he whispered.
“They haven’t spotted us yet.
All headed the other way, I
think.” He pointed. “You can
just see the tail-enders, to the
left of that bottle-tree.”
Catching a glimpse of red and
a restlessly switching white tail-
brush I nodded.
“How far ahead do you reckon
this plain is?” Jack kept his
voice at a low whisper,
Mick sat like a statue, never
once shifting his fixed stare from
the cattle ahead.
“About half -a - mile,” I
whispered back.
“Mick says quarter-of-a-mile.”
“Take his word for it. He
knows this country.” I beckoned
to Steve and Duffy. “We’ll work
around them to the left as soon
as these two join us. Wonga and
the kid can bring the coaches
on.”
The infallible plan!
Mick’s horse, restless and
anxious to be- off, backed into a
low dead branch and snapped it
off with a report like a rifle-
shot. One second later he was
galloping, with Jack not half a
length behind him. Fallen
timber, pear, dense brigalow and
ensnaring vines were all forgotten
as those two madmen raced
neck-and-neck for the honor of
first place.
Mick took the honors. Jack
was too good a cattleman to
stay in a position where two
men could only do the work of
one. He had proved he could
hold his own with Mick, and
since it was obvious that Mick
would concede the lead to no
man he fell into place behind
him.-
I was following Jack with the
other two close behind me, and
away in the rear we could hear
the sound of Wonga’s voice, as
he and Tommy frantically urged
the coaches after us.
old Wonga! He knew
the plain was not far ahead,
and he knew that if he could get
those coaches there quickly he
would greatly improve our
chances of success.
The pace was a cracker, and
the noise of the chase must have
been audible for a mile or more.
The scrubbers were crashing
headlong through everything,
snapping branches and trampling
bushes underfoot. Sticks were
flying left and right from the
hooves of our galloping horses,
and from up ahead came Mick’s
wildly excited yell as he burst
through on to the plain, level
with the leaders.
My first impression on break-
ing out of the scrub was that
the whole plain was covered with
galloping cattle, and that Mick
had somehow managed to get
himself right in the middle of
them. Almost immediately I
realised the truth. There were
two mobs, one racing abreast of
us and the other fanned out
ahead in a wild break for the
scrub on the far side of the
plain.
Mick, of course, swung wide
to take in the lot. Apart from
the fact that he could never resist
the lure of chasing the most
distant beast, the policy of head-
ing everything was the right one
now. The leaders of one mob
were right on the heels of the
tail-enders of the other, and it
was a case of all or nothing.
The new leaders beat us to the
scrub, but our blood was up. We
would have chased them through
hell before admitting defeat.
We overtook them, swung
them and headed them back.
Mick was yelling at the top of
his lungs, though in the general
noise of the chase it was impos-
sible to tell what he was saying.
This was the critical time
when one slip, one man out of
position, could undo all the good
we had done. The scrubbers
were back on the plain, fairly
well bunched and still galloping.
The coaches were streaming out
on to it at a fast canter, and the
two mobs would soon meet head-
on. If Wonga did the wrong
thing or if the inexperienced
Tommy rode the wrong way the
result could easily be a hopeless
tangle with cattle escaping in all
directions at once.
Experience and quick thinking
stuck to Wonga. He took in the
whole situation and immediately
swung wide of everything, with
Tommy following him. We were
strung-out in position to encircle
scrubbers and coaclies. His place
was on our tail.
TT was then I realised that Mick
A was missing. He might have
had a bad fall, either he or his
horse might be crippled, but for
the moment we had no time to
think about him.
Jack was in the lead, spurring
recklessly to complete the circle,
and in a matter of seconds it was
complete-six riders galloping
round a mob of churning, be-
wildered cattle. *
Soon we were slackening the
pace, closing the circle a little,
soothing the cattle with “Whoa,
Bally, whoa,” and wishing we
had brought twice as many
coaches with us. There were
bullocks, mickeys and cleanskin
cows in the mob, all of them
mud-fat, and many of them
looking for a chance to escape.
I glanced down at the dogs.
They were right behind me,
tongues out and panting heavily.
In that condition they were not
only useless but in danger of
becoming overheated.
I called, “Bogie, dogs. Bogie.”
The waterhole was only fifty
yards away, and Boozer knew
exactly where it was. His ears
went up m delight as he led
Sneezer for it at a gallop. Given
only half-a-minute in the cool
water and they would be fit for
anything.
We had steadied-down to a
trot, still soothing and contain-
ing the entire mob, when Mick
came back. Neither he nor his
horse was hurt. He was coming
at a gallop, and a length ahead
of him was the biggest and
ugliest scrub bull I have ever
seen —a massive, inbred brute of
a thing with cocked-up horns,
long legs and powerful shoulders.
Mick was yelling, “Look out!
Look out! ” in a series of totally
unnecessary warnings.
No one in his right senses
would have got in the way of
that brute. • I doubt whether
anyone but Mick would have
chased it in the first place, and
certainly no one but Mick would
have slammed it slap into the
mob we had struggled so hard to
pacify.
The bull hit the mob at a
COCK CROW
Wanting to be myself, alone,
Between the lit house and the
town
I took the road, and at the
bridge
Tlimed back and walked the
way I’d come.
Three times l took that lonely
stretch,
Three times the dark trees closed
me round,
The night absolved me of my
bonds
Only my footsteps held the
ground.
My mother and my daughter
slept,
One life behind and one before,
And I that stood between denied
Their needs in shutting-to the
door.
And walking up and down the
road
Knew myself, separate and
alone,
Cut off from human cries, from
pain,
And love that grows about the
bone.
Too brief illusion! Thrice for
me
l heard the cock crow on the
hill (
And turned the handle of the
door
Thinking l knew his meaning
well.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


World’s Finest Airliner
is serving
Australia
■ ■
a u ■
Lockheed Super Constellation
m
across 6 continents
The latest in a line of distinguished
Lockheed airliners, the 1049 G
version of the Super Constellation
is serving Australia. Enjoy the quiet
comfort and speed of the world’s
most luxurious airliner. 24 world
airlines feature Super Constella-
tion service over connecting routes
which cross every ocean and span
every continent.
COMING!
World’s Longest Range Air-
liner —the Super Constellation
1649 A with its revolutionary
high-speed, long range wing.
It will make possible NON-
STOP flights both ways be-
tween the capitals of the world
Qantas and KLM Royal Dutch
Airlines afford Super Constel-
lation service to 5 Continents
from Australia.
»€
LOCKHEED
Luxury
Airliner
Look to Lockheed for Leadership >
gallop. He hit a cow with a
tremendous thud, knocked her
flat on her back, leaped over her
and collided with a bullock. That
steadied him. He shook his head,
looked around him and then
trotted about inside the mob,
his great ugly head held high.
“Look out f’r ’im!” Mick
yelled. “ ’E’ll go y’ scone ’ot! ”
Another unnecessary warning!
In any case we were too busy
trying to steady the mob to pay
much attention to Mick’s
contribution.
“Ain’t ’e a bloody little
beaut?” Mick called.
The “bloody little beaut”
pawed the ground, lowered his
head and charged. He brushed
a cow aside with a thud that
sent her to her knees, and in a
flash we were treated to a
complete reversal of form. Mick
was galloping madly away from
the mob, with the bull less than
a length behind him.
“Stay with the mob,” I yelled
to the others. And to two wet,
eager dogs, “Get hold of him,
dogs.”
We overtook him easily.
Winded from his long gallop,
the bull maintained his furious
charge only for about fifty yards
before easing to a stumbling
canter. The dogs closed in on
him and Mick circled back,
laughing. Sneezer raced straight
for the nose, and as the bull
lowered his head in a charge
Boozer nipped him smartly on
the heel. Bellowing with pain
and rage the bull swung in a
lightning about-face, only to find
the heeler safely out of reach and
the noser resuming the attack.
Three times the manoeuvre was
repeated. The bull was making
no forward progress now; he
was simply going round and
round in the one spot, unable to
decide which of his tormentors
he would gore and trample to
death. Sneezer was in constant
danger, Boozer never. Not until
his mate had secured a firm hold
on the bull’s nose did the heeler
really fasten on to the hock.
It may not be correct to say
the dogs pulled that enormous
mass of bone and muscle down.
Perhaps, in his frantic efforts to
dislodge them, he overturned.
However, we were not worried
over the finer points; the main
thing was that the bull crashed
heavily to the ground. And
before he could scramble to his
feet Mick threw himself across
the hindquarters and locked both
arms around a hind-leg.
“ ’E’s mine, boss,” he called.
“I’ve got ’im.”
“Then you can bloody well
stick to him,” I answered, as I
whistled the dogs and cantered
back to help the others.
Gradually we got the mob
steadied, and moved to the shade
of a clump of brigalow in the
centre of the plain. Many of
them had their tongues hanging
out from overheating, and until
they cooled-down it would be
impossible to drive them.
ILfICK rejoined us, grinning
rather shamefacedly. He
had strapped his bull’s hind-legs
firmly together and was now
anxious to hear what I had to
say, anxious also to make
amends.
“What are you going to do
with the useless bloody animal?”
Jack asked.
“Meaning Mick or his cursed
bull?”
“The bull.”
“I dunno. Cut his blasted
throat, I suppose.”
“Best thing to do.” Jack
laughed, and looked across the
mob at Mick, conscientiously
moving his horse to block a
restless cow. “I had a dog like
Mick once. Always chased the
most useless thing in sight. Send
him to turn a few old cows in
and he’d take off after a
kangaroo-rat. Never could cure
him of the habit. You'll never
cure Mick, either.”
How right he was!
I rode around the mob and
told Mick to cut the bull’s throat.
And never did a man plead more
eloquently for the life of a friend.
His reasoning was typical of
him —anything but sound.
Overlooking the animal’s ill-
bred ugliness, he pointed out that
a man couldn’t get his two hands
around the base of the one horn
and that its feet were as big as
soup-plates. He claimed he had
never in his life run a bigger,
faster or more fierce cleanskin
bull. He said that in a straight
gallop in open country it would
take a really fast horse to catch
him. And jump! Mick leaned
sideways in his saddle and
extended an arm level with his
horse’s wither.
“Cleared a pile of prickly-pear
that ’igh. Took it in ’is stride.
Aw, boss, y’ couldn’t ’ave the
’eart to kill ’im! Cut ’im and
earmark ‘im and let ’im go. We’ll
pick ’im up again.”
I pointed out that* as well as
being a potential danger, the
animal was and always would
be completely worthless. But in
the end I gave in. Mick was so
tremendously proud of his
captive. He sat astride it as I
castrated , and earmarked it,
though he protested mildly as I
knee-strung it. It would spoil
the poor bloke’s speed, he said.
Knee-stringing consists of
making a very small incision
above the knee and severing the
main sinew. When a beast has
been knee-strung it can walk
and, after a little practice, trot.
It cannot canter, and if it tries
to charge it immediately crashes
to its knees.
I wiped my knife on the bull’s
hide and remounted, while Mick
took the straps off. He could
have mounted before the bull
scrambled to its feet, but that was
not Mick’s way.
He slapped it across the rump
with the straps and shouted, “Git
up, Carbine, and see how y’ go.”
Carbine came up charging.
His crippled knee gave way, and
he crashed down almost at
Mick’s feet.
“That’ll learn ’im,” Mick
laughed, walking nonchalantly
away.
I said, “Yes. And one of
these days I’ll miss the main
sinew because my knife is blunt.
That’ll learn you.”
We watched the bull stagger
off into the scrub. Perhaps it
would have been kinder to kil|
him. Yet I doubt it. Twelve
months later we struck him
again, and though he swung his
off-side front-leg in an odd
fashion he still had a remarkable
turn of speed.
We got him many times after
that. He always made frantic, if
unsuccessful, bids to escape,
always became quite docile at the
mere sight of a dog, and was the
subject of many a campfire yarn.
The name of Carbine stuck to
him, and the boys loved him for
the thrills they got out of him.
Yet otherwise he was worth-
less, an ugly stag no buyer would
have taken as a gift, even if we
had been able to hold him in a
paddock. The, scrub was his
home. He was born in it and he
would always return to it, existing
in there through droughts even
after the cactoblastis had
deprived him of every trace of
pear.
CHAPTER XXX
IT was nearly sundown when
we got the mob to the yards.
There had been many anxious
moments coming through the
scrub. Several head had tried
to break away, but always the
dogs were there to discourage
them.
One big bullock broke and
fled as we were yarding-up. He
came back even faster, bellowing
as both dogs sunk their teeth
into his hocks.
The rest of the scrubbers took
the hint and went quietly in with
the coaches. They had a certain
amount of respect for horsemen,
but they really dreaded the dogs.
We put the rails up and let our
horses go. I sent Wonga off to
prepare a meal then, while the
rest of us vaulted into the yards.
We had to draft the scrubbers
off, shut them in one of the
smaller yards and turn the quiet
cattle loose before we could call
it a day.
In the fading light it was
difficult to distinguish one beast
from another, and on one
occasion a snort and a furious
charge warned me I had
mistaken a bad-tempered old
scrubber for a quiet cow. As
Jack said, that was one way of
finding out.
We finished the job by moon-
light, and hurried off for a swim
and a meal. The bright light of
the campfire was reminding us
that we were starving.
“There’s a good moon
tonight,” Mick pointed out, as
we finished eating. “What say
we get fresh ’orses in and ’ave a
crack at pickin’ some up along
the edge of the scrub?”
Duffy and Steve strongly sup-
ported the idea, but I refused to
give my consent.
“We might only disturb cattle
we’d have a better chance of
picking up in daylight,” I
reasoned. “Later in the week we
can give the moonlighting a go.”
“You blokes would work a
man to death,” Jack complained.
“We’ve been on the go for
fourteen solid hours, and you
want to saddle-up for another
lot.” He lay back with his head
on his rolled swag and yawned.
“You know, Bob, old ‘Banjo’
Paterson had this game sewn-up
when he wrote that bit about ‘a
running fire of stockwhips and
a fiery run of hoofs; Oh, the
hardest day was never then too
hard.’ ”
“It wasn’t ‘Banjo’ Paterson,”
I pointed out. “It was Adam
Lindsay Gordon.”
“Right-oh, Gordon if you like.
He still had the game sewn-up.
You’d think he’d spent his time
following Mick through the
scrub.”
“Except that we don’t use
stockwhips.”
“That’s right. Never use one
myself. They’re only a blasted
nuisance in timber. And you
always get some useless galah
That starts cracking one at the
wrong time.”
For a while we all discussed
the advantages and disadvantages
of stockwhips, and then,
inevitably, we started gloating
over our day’s catch. Besides
cows with calves, cleanskin
heifers and a few big mickeys
we had a nice haul of saleable
fats.
A very handsome profit
indeed, and a very promising
beginning.
AT sunrise next morning we
entered the scrub with a
mob of coaches and high hopes.
At sundown we came out of it
with the coaches and seven head
of scrub cattle.
We had only sighted one mob
and everything had gone wrong
—two busters, one lamed horse,
everyone doing the wrong thing
and the mob splitting in about
six different directions.
The only cattle we got were
the ones we threw or dogged,
and the wonder of it all was that
we hadn’t lost the coaches. In
fact, it had been a typical
scrubber-running day. The odds
were always heavily on the
scrubbers.
But we still had our high
hopes. Tomorrow we would
take our catch in to the home-
stead and return for another
bigger and better mob.
By the end of the week we
had sixty-five head in the small
holding-paddock at the home-
stead. We had tailed coaches
through the scrubs by day and
gone out moonlighting by night,
picking up a few head here and
a few there, but never once had
we equalled the success of the
first day. Still, it had been a
wonderful week.
“The best holiday I’ve had for
years,” Jack said.
On the seventh day we yarded
our catch in the homestead
yards and drafted-off the clean-
skins for branding. They were
a mixed lot, ranging in size from
small calves to full-grown cows,
and the sight of several big
mickeys amongst them inspired
Jack and Mick to suggest
scruffing.
Most people would regard
scruffing as hard, dirty and, if
the calves are really big,
dangerous work. No ropes are
used. Two men walk into the
mob and select a calf, one seizing
it by the head and the other by
the tail. They then run it
smartly towards the branding-
fire, dump it on its side and hold
it while the boss brands and
earmarks it.
Performed by two expert
scruffers the job is swift and
apparently effortless, but if one
of the men is inexperienced it
develops into a prolonged tussle
between two straining, sweating
men and a bucking, bawling calf.
It was a method of branding
we most frequently used, because
it called for skill and perfect,
understanding between each pair
of men as well as providing quite
a lot of fun. Put a mob of calves,
some of them mickeys and
heifers with horns three or four
inches long, in a small yard that
already holds six men and a
branding-fire, and you are bound
to have some unrehearsed
comedy.
o Continued on next page}


’yjTE had our full share that day,
** even though we took the
precaution of drafting-off the
three full-grown cows and brand-
ing them in the crush. With their
longer and sharper horns they
could be much more dangerous
than the mickeys, which, after
all, were only overgrown bull-
calves.
When a mickey is dumped on
his side and held there by two
expert scruffers, deprived of his
manhood, earmarked and
stamped with hot branding-irons
he is quite naturally annoyed
about it. On being released he
retires to a corner and broods
over his injuries for a few
minutes before showing his
resentment.
He shows it by pawing up
dust in a challenge, and though
he is usually satisfied with this
exhibition of defiance there are
times when he will back it up by
charging. Quite often his charge
is merely a bluff, and at the last
moment he will sidestep his man
with a terrific nose-blowing
snort and career past. Sometimes
he will come all the way.
“Keep your eye on that bloke
in the corner,” Jack warned
Steve and Duffy as they dumped
a heifer on the ground close to
the branding-fire.
Mick said scornfully, “Aw,
he’s all bluff.” And to prove it
he faced the dust-pawing mickey,
went down on his hands and
knees and began throwing up
dust in a return-challenge.
To his intense astonishment
the mickey accepted the
challenge. With lightning speed
he lowered his head, charged and
blew his nose all over the
prostrate Mick. Continuing his
furious rush he made a swiping
pass at Wonga, missed him by
inches and scattered brands,
burning wood and hot ashes all
over the yard. Someone yelled,
“Look out! He’s coming back! ”
But by then we were all on the
fence laughing at the spectacle
of Mick feeling himself gingerly
for broken ribs.
“Git down and chuck a bit
more dirt at ’im, Mick,” Wonga
advised. “He’s all bluff.”
“I think I’ve got four ribs
broke,” Mick announced
mournfully.
We examined him, found him
only bruised, and told him it was
a pity his neck wasn’t broken.
The mickey kept us all on the
alert when we resumed the
branding, and though we were
hoping he would tackle Mick
again he contented himself with
a few half-hearted passes at some
of the others.
Two days later we trucked the
fats in Dilargo, and after cele-
brating our success at Curly’s we
said goodbye to Jack and
returned to Yakaparni for the
routine branding-muster.
It was rather like returning to
work after an exciting holiday,
for we started at Buckley’s
Yards, where the cattle no longer
fled at the sight of a horseman
and yarding-up was a very tame
affair.
Still, as Mick pointed out, a
man could always be sure of a
gallop when we shifted-camp to
the Brigalow Yards, and the
weaners would always fizz when
we let them out,
T WENT in to meet the Carsons
-*■ one night early in February.
I drove in whistling happily,
humming every song I knew. It
would be great, I told myself,
to have the family back again,
great to know that the big old
house would no longer be
deserted when I came in from
the mustering-camps.
It would be lovely to see Mrs.
Carson sitting at the foot of the
dining-table—a table with
flowers and gleaming cutlery on
it instead of the odds and ends
I had been making-do with.
And Carson. It would be good
to see the old chap stumbling
over the dogs, cursing them if
anyone was in sight, patting them
and feeding them surreptitiously
if he thought he was unobserved.
I was genuinely fond of my boss
and his wife, genuinely pleased
at the prospect of seeing them
again.
It was pleasant driving along.
The engine ran perfectly, the
road had never been in better
order, and the headlights
illuminated patches of fairyland
where it -wound through the
thickly timbered country.
The train arrived, late as usual,
and only three people alighted.
Carrie must have found another
job, I thought, as I hurried
forward to help with the luggage.
I was wrong. There was a
gleam of white teeth in a dark
face behind Mrs. Carson.
“Hullo, Bob,” Mrs. Carson
said warmly. “It’s so nice to see
you again.”
“It’s nice to see you back, Mrs.
Carson,” I answered, and for
some reason I felt my reply was
lacking in warmth.
No one could have shown
more sincere pleasure than
Carson did as he shook my hand
and inquired after my health.
“We’d better dump this stuff
here, Bob, and get the heavy
luggage out of the van,” he said.
We hurried off.
No one had mentioned Julie,
and I was certainly not going to
ask after her.
No one mentioned her until
we were a mile or more along
the road. Carson was sitting in
front with me, telling me how
pleased he’d been about the sale
of the fats, when Mrs. Carson
said, “Julie has gone out west
to stay with some friends for a
few weeks.”
I mumbled something about
that being nice for her. Carson
went on with some longwinded
story about having bought the
house at the coast and put the
money from the unexpected sale
into improvements. I scarcely
heard him. I was thinking that
the road was as rough as hell
and that the car was running like
a worn-out tractor. I was also
endeavoring, for the first time
since my break with Carla, to be
completely honest with myself.
The result was an admission
that I had been deliberately keep-
ing Julie out of my thoughts.
The nejtt step was a grudging
acknowledgment that, since the
road could not have grown rough
during the last hour, nor could
the engine have developed a
series of complaints while it was
standing at the station, I must
be feeling sour because Julie had
not arrived. I was even able
to admit that I had sub-
consciously been leaving the
home-paddocks undipped in
order to let her take part in the
muster.
“What the devil’s the matter
with you, Bob?” Carson asked.
“You’re not feeling crook, are
you?”
“Eh?” I snapped out of my
semi-trance with a jerk. “No,
Mr. Carson. I’m all right. I was
just wondering why the engine
wasn’t pulling properly. It seems
to have a slight miss every now
and then . . , What were you
saying?”
“Sounds all right to me.
Nothing wrong with it. I was
asking you how far you’d got
with the muster.”
“We haven’t quite finished at
Buckley’s Yards yet, but I
brought the camp in today,” I
told him. “The bullocks need
dipping, and we’ll have to get a
killer in tomorrow. We’re just
about out of meat.”
Carson began to relate some
of his fishing experiences, and I
went back to my brooding. I
wondered what had come over
me, whether I was sickening for
something, and in the end I
decided I had been spending too
much time with old Dan.
Wake up to yourself, you big
mug, I said under my breath.
You’re not falling for Julia
Carson, and that’s the bloody
end of that.
CHAPTER XXXI
TTNDOUBTEDLY Carson’s
holiday had done him good.
He had come home in an
excellent mood, a mood that
lasted for more than a week.
He patted the dogs openly and
even praised them. He joked
with the boys, talked to Dan
without abusing him, and never
once complained about his ulcer.
I spent an entire morning help-
ing him with a difficult and
annoying job during that spell
and he never once cursed. We
had finished dipping the home
paddocks, and the boys were
running fresh horses in while
Carson and I repaired the trough
at Number-one bore. Even when
a slipping spanner caused him to
skin his knuckles his good
humor remained comparatively
unruffled.
“Bob,” he said, as I bound his
hand up with a handkerchief,
“have you ever thought about
getting married?”
The question startled me into
an emphatic “Good God, no!
Whatever made you ask?”
“I’ve been sort of thinking of
retiring.” He sat down on the
edge of the trough. “The missus
and J were talking it over. She’d
like to live down at the coast.
More social life and all that sort
of thing. And I’m getting on in
years. Not as young as I used to
be. I’d like you to take on the
job of manager when I do decide
to sit back. But it’s not altogether
the job for a single man. A
bit lonely, for one thing.
Besides, the house would go to
the pack without a woman to
look after it.”
I started to thank him. I was
about to tell him I was a con-
firmed bachelor, and that, much
as I would like the job, he had
better look around for a suitable
married man.
“I don’t want you to make up
your mind now,” he interrupted.
“Take your time. Think it over.
I haven’t even decided to sit
back yet, and if I do it won’t be
this year, or next year either. I
just wanted you to know that
when I do the job’s yours,
married or single. I wouldn’t
have anyone else running the
place.”
It was quite a speech for
Carson, and as I thanked him I
think we both felt a little
embarrassed.
THREE days'later he reverted
to his normal self. We were
yarding a mob at Buckley’s
Yards, and he had driven out
with some arsenic for the dip.
It was a hot day, but my policy
of letting the cattle string-out was
paying dividends.
“It doesn’t matter how far
ahead the leaders get,” I had
repeatedly told Wonga. “Let
them keep walking and get them
in the yards. The tail will
follow.”
The tail, with all its baby
calves, was quite a long way
behind the leaders that day.
When Mick came back to tell me
that Wonga had the lead in the
yards we had nearly half-a-mile
to go. When we finally came in
sight of the yards most of the
cattle were in. None of us saw
Carson until we were about to
put the rails up. He came from
behind a quinine-bush as
Wonga said, “roarin’ like a
scrub bull with the dogs on ’im.”
“What the bloody hell’s going
on?” he demanded. “What sort
of a way is this to yard-up?”
Very mildly I asked, “What’s
wrong with it?”
“What’s right with it? First
Wonga comes along with the
lead and sits down under a tree,
playing a blasted gumleaf while
the leaders yard themselves. It’s
ten minutes before another man
shows up. Ten minutes! I timed
it.” He pulled his watch from
his belt-pouch and tapped it to
press home his point. “And
then Mick wanders along riding
side-saddle. Side-saddle! Like
the women used to! ”
Mick had a habit of riding
with one leg over the pommel
of his saddle when all was going
peacefully.
“Nobody gives a damn about
the cattle,” Carson raged on.
“The whole flaming mob could
have cleared out for all anyone
cared.”
“But they didn’t,” I reasoned.
“They’re all in the yard.”
“How do you know? How
do you know half of ’em didn’t
clear out before you got here?
How can you tell what's happen-
ing if you don’t keep all your
cattle together under your eye?”
1 lost my temper then. I
reminded Carson of some of the
hopeless messes his methods of
yarding-up had caused, and
ended by saying, “If you don’t
like the way I work your
damned cattle you can get
someone else. I’m fed up with
the bloody place.” I caught
sight of Mick’s face and said,
“Stop grinning like a bloody
ape, and put those rails up.”
While the others jumped to
help him Carson put his hand on
my horse’s shoulder and said,
“Dammit, Bob, there’s no need
for you to get upset about it.
I was only trying to tell you the
sort of thing that goes on when
you’re not looking.”
I thought of several sarcastic
answers, but in the end, because
I was afraid of going too far in
front of the boys, I said nothing.
Carson had driven off in his
tilly, and we were unsaddling our
horses before anyone spoke.
“There’s no doubt about the
old boy,” Wonga remarked,
breaking the uncomfortable
silence. “He puts on a decent
sort of a turn when ’e let’s ’is
’ead go.”
Very irritably I told him to
shut up, and Mick, with his
irrepressible grin, said, “Y*
know, boss, the way you’ve been
goin’ lately, you’d make a bloody
good pair.”
T LAY awake thinking over that
* remark for a long time that
night. Mick was quite right. In
many ways I was becoming as
irascible as Carson.
I knew the reason and I cursed
myself for it. I was not falling
for Julie, but I could not get her
out of my mind. She, or the
image of her, kept cropping-up
as I was riding behind the cattle
or watching them on the dinner
camp.
It was an annoying image,
because I had to keep reminding
myself of the things I disliked
about her. I remembered
Albert’s sneering remark, and
immediately felt like taking
another crack at him. Marry
the boss’s daughter! I’d toss my
job in and head back to the Gulf
before I’d come at that.
Thinking about throwing my
job in made me realise how fond
of Yakaparni I had become.
And it spelt achievement for me,
perhaps my first real achieve-
ment. The cattle proved it.
Carson’s offer proved it. If I
went I would only be running
away from some entirely
imaginary situation. I was nearly
ten years older than Julie. And
as for Carla’s remark about her
being in love with me, it was a
piece of fantastic nonsense
probably prompted by jealousy.
Having straightened every-
thing out to my own satisfaction
I eventually went to sleep.
TI7E were camped at the Briga-
’* low Yards when Julie came
home, so I did not see her until
the weekend. She had changed,
I saw then. She was more grown-
up, more assured. Her greeting
as I walked up the veranda
could not have been more
delightfully unrestrained, or
mine more casual.
“Oh, Bob,” she said, taking
both my hands, “I’ve been dying
for you to come in from camp.”
She stepped back, still holding
my hands. “You've got thin. As
thin as a hungry kangaroo-dog.”
“Crook tucker. Wonga let the
beef go bad.” I released my
hands. “Have a good time out
west?”
“Lovely,” she answered. “But
I didn’t like the sheep. I’d hate
to live on a sheep-station,
wouldn’t you? I’m sure you’d
get to smell like one in the end.”
I said, “I dunno. But I prob-
ably smell pretty much like a
cow at the moment. I’d better
go and have a shower.”
For the next couple of months
we got on remarkably well
together. She came out with me
quite frequently when the muster
ended, and if there were
occasional rows they were
usually of my making. Once or
twice she flared up in her old
o Continued on page 24)
MANNEQUIN PARADE
[I The Model]
Now Cinderella slips between
The mirror and the mercer’s eye,
Slim momentary heroine
Of plots whose prologue is good-
bye.
Goodbye! You turn for our
delight
A face as far-away as flowers,
Brief blossoming of winter light
Beneath imaginary towers . . .
And there the silvered prince-
lings come
By stealth at night in motor-
cars ;
And you lie eloquent and dumb,
Watched by your silent
cameras . . .
/ often wonder if those rooms
Were hung with stockings, would
some young
Mechanic take you in his arms
And kiss you hard and wake
your tongue?
[II Her Gloves]
Her gloves are pink
As the young coral
And under waves
She calls the sailors.
Where water moves
In the green peace
Of coral groves
I saw her face.
A.C.T.
/ stole a glove
From her right hand
And saw it die
On the dry land.
[lll The Sisters]
She comes again. That face!
Faces aren’t fair; if I
But looked so, walked so, why
In that girl’s place —
And please don’t stretch my
meaning—
/ swear I’d be the mistress of a
king !
“I quite believe you.” Kings!
Not one, for l would have
A dozen such in love,
Skylarking, banquetings ;
And court and cabinet split,
These praising most my beauty,
those m,y wit.
‘‘l’d go for looks.” Ah well,
That makes a pair of us,
Married — worse —virtuous ;
And happy to be so. Still
It’s not a husband’s charms
That keep a woman prisoned in
his arms.
I sometimes long to show
Another man instead
How sweet I am in bed —
You know ?
“And I to know
Another’s sweetness . . . But
l hear the model’s nothing but a
slut.”
DAVID CAMPBELL.


THIS IS FOR YOU
By HUGH CAMPBELL
THE killer had just kicked
a recumbent Alan Ladd
in the kidneys, and was
making for him with a
knife that had materialised from
nowhere, when Fred Harman
doubled-up his knees and rested
his feet on the back of the seat
in front of him.
“Get your bloody feet off
there!” came viciously out of the
darkness.
Young Harman, at fourteen,
had talked himself into fights
before, and ducked out of them
without being hurt. He had seen
the two boys in front of him,
about his own age and rugged-
looking, at interval.
“Shuddup!” he hissed.
“Shift your feet or I’ll belt
you.”
“You - an’ what football-
team?”
The heel of a shoe, stealthily
taken off in the darkness, cracked
down on Harman’s shin, and he
dropped his legs with a gasp.
“I’ll see you outside after.
Wait for me.”
The accents echoed Ladd’s
ominous “I’ll get you for this”
from the screen.
For the time being the incident
was ended. Harman hunched
his shoulders and sank down
sulkily in his seat. Lex Baker,
thirteen, and a half-a-head
shorter than Harman, noticed
the scuffle, but did not
quite know what it was
about. He could only guess
trouble was brewing. The other
two boys from the Furnace-
street gang, Tom Bennett and
Lenny Fahey, intent on the film,
missed it all.
Harman couldn’t leave well
alone. Five minutes before the
end of the show he lifted his
feet again, and dropped them as
he saw an elbow crooked
threateningly over the back of
the seat to get another whack
at him.
“Y* learn hard! Wait till
after.” The harsh undertone
hissed through the darkness.
The gauzy curtain was still
sweeping across Ladd’s final
triumphant half-smile when
Harman was on his feet. Swiftly
he stepped over the back of his
seat into the gangway behind,
and he was gone through the
exit, before Lex was aware that
he was running, and while Tom
and Lenny were wondering what
was up.
The house-lights came up.
The three remaining Furnace-
street boys stood up, and so did
the two big fellows in front of
them. Now that Harman was
gone, they were big fellows.
Lex was half-a-head shorter than
either of them, and Tom and
Lenny, only twelve, looked
shrimps, because they had not
yet entered the teenage-period
of sudden growth.
“Strike, Clarkey, he’s gone,”
grunted one of the big boys
resentfully.
“Nev’ mind, Sniff. Those kids
were with him. They'll do,” said
the other, and reached over to
give Lex a rough shake on the
shoulder. “Hey, you kids, we
want to see you outside.”
Lex shrugged him off, and
shoved urgently at Tom and
Lenny.
“Come on. Let’s get out of
this quick,” he whispered, as they
began to press into the slowly-
moving crowd. Lex hoped they
would be carried far enough
ahead to miss the other two. He
looked back as he was borne
with the press through the door,
and could see nothing of them.
“What’s up?” asked Lenny, in
the foyer.
“Harman got into a blue with
them two. They’re looking for
a fight. Come on.” hissed Lex,
and pushed Tom and Lenny
ahead of him.
IN the street, among the bright
lights and multitudinous
shadows, it looked as though
they were clear. They stepped
out big for home, but not too
big, because it would not do to
look as though they really were
running.
They were halfway down the
block when a voice said in
Lenny’s ear: “Where’s your
loudmouthed big cobber?”
Lenny, his head on a level with
the other boy’s shoulder, looked
up as he kept walking.
“Gone home, I reckon,” he
replied tensely, noticing as he
spoke that Clarkey was stalking
between Tom and Lex, grasping
an elbow of each.
At the first intersection the
group paused irresolutely.
“You kids all live out Park-
way?” grunted Sniff.
“Yeah, that’s right,” answered
Tom and Lenny in unison,
without pausing to weigh the
significance of the question.
Lex’s blue eyes glazed and
shifted, and his rabbit chin
trembled before he spoke.
“No. Newtown for me,” he
lied. “I go the other way here.”
“But Lex . . .” stuttered Tom,
before Lenny jabbed him in the
ribs. Tom fell silent, and
watched miserably as Lex walked
away.
Sniff and Clarkey looked at
Lex’s back, and then at one
another. - They weren’t going to
go half-a-mile out of their way
to get their own back, especially
when they still had the two
younger boys.
“Think we’ll walk home with
you two,” announced Clarkey in
an unfriendly tone. “Some-
body’s got to pay for what that
big stiff said.”
Lenny wondered what was
going to happen, thought of
making a run for it, then changed
his mind. His dad had won a
Military Medal in Greece, and
had been in plenty of tough
spots. “Never run away from
trouble, son,” he used to say,
clapping Lenny roughly on the
shoulder, with the only show of
affection he allowed for this
steady-eyed son of his. “And
never hit anyone unless you have
a real reason for doing it.”
These two maxims were
whirling in the boy’s brain now.
It seemed as though he might
have to practise both of them
before he got home.
Sniff and Clarkey were guiding
them slowly but purposefully
down the street, prodding them
from behind, and muttering
threats about what would happen
when they got out of the
shopping-area.
“What school you kids go to?”
demanded Sniff suddenly.
“High-school.”
“Arrh! Lah-de-dah! You
won’t feel like talking any of
your French and Latin and
stuff when we’ve busted you up
a bit.”
Tom looked helplessly at
Lenny, but Lenny said nothing,
just kept on walking. He knew
that was what his father would
have done.
A Parkway tram was rattling
along behind them. As it came
abreast, a parked car backed out
across the lines, and the tram
jangled to a stop.
Tom looked at Lenny, jingled
the two pennies he had, and
scuttled into the roadway.
“I think I’ll get a tram home,”
he called.
LENNY watched him go. He
could have made it, too,
before Clarkey had time to grab
his arm, but he just stood there.
Never run away from trouble,
he thought, and said hoarsely:
“Let me go. I’m not running.
I haven’t got the money for a
fare, anyway.”
He felt very small, walking
along between the bulk of Sniff
and Clarkey. But he walked
with his shoulders squared and
head up, trying to keep his
voice and lips from quivering,
though his face was paled so that
the freckles showed as a dark
blotch across his cheekbones.
He would have liked his father
to see him now, sticking to it,
and not running away like
Harman and Lex and Tom.
Thinking of Harman, Lenny
wondered what the gang-leader
had done to start this. “What’d
me mate do to you, anyway?”
“Your mate, is he? Good sort
of mate that runs away. He give
us some lip and talked fight.
When he sees you tomorrow,
he’ll know that doesn’t pay.”
Sniff, his voice clogging with
his long speech, inhaled sibi-
lantly. Lenny stole a glance side-
ways at him, and felt a surge of
disgust for his running nose. He
felt that if he had to fight he
couldn’t hit that. He looked
over the other side at Clarkey.
He was at least Yes, if
Lenny had to hit anyone, he’d
hit Clarkey.
Then he knew that they had
arrived. They were in Peel-
street. Along one side stretched
the brick wall of the spinning-
mill, its dozens of black windows
receding into the distance. On
the other side, an eight-foot
picket-fence, topped with barbed-
wire, guarded a timber-yard.
Between these was the empty
space of the deserted street, lit
by the distorting greenish-yellow
glow of the sodium-vapor lamps.
Sniff pushed Lenny’s back
against the cold brick, and
punched him lightly on the
chest. Clarkey slapped his cheek
experimentally. Then they both
stood back.
“If you fight one of us,” said
Clarkey, “we’ll make it a fair
fight and let you off with what
you get.”
“But I’ve got nothing to
fight you for,” said Lenny. “I
don’t want to fight.”
He stood with his palms
pressed clammily against the
brick. Sniff came close and hit
him on the side of the face, so
that his head thumped against
the bricks.
Tears prickled behind Lenny’s
eyelids, but he blinked them
back. The thump of his head
against the unyielding brick
made his senses reel, and at the
shock of the blow and the
sudden gust of Sniff’s foul
breath in his face his stomach
heaved. He stood there, swallow-
ing and blinking, as Sniff
growled:
“What about that, then? Will
that make you fight?”
“No! ” gasped Lenny
desperately. “I don’ wanna
fight.”
Sniff stepped in again, and let
rip,' hitting Lenny in the same
place.
“What about it?”
“No.”
Lenny’s palms clung obstin-
ately to the rough coolness of the
brick. A stubborn determination
was welling up in him. Sniff
might hit him, Clarkey might
stand off and encourage Sniff,
but he, Lenny, would win. No
matter how much they hit him,
they just wouldn’t get him to do
what they wanted.
SO he stood, head up, blinking
and swallowing, and kept
his hands down, waiting. It was
all up to Sniff and Clarkey.
Lenny wouldn’t give in, and he
wouldn’t run.
Sniff was disconcerted. He
crooked his arm back for another
blow, and then paused. What he
wanted was a fight, and this kid
wouldn’t play the game. He and
Clarkey had some rules of their
own, and bashing hell out of a
kid who wouldn’t hit back was
not in them.
“Aw . . . what’ll we do with
him, jUarkev?” he said.
Clarkey lunged forward and
took Lenny by the arms, pulling
him forward and slamming him
back into the wall.
“Go on. Just hit him once
and we’ll let you off,” he gritted.
“No. I don’t want to.” Lenny’s
words slipped out in a sullen
monotone.
Sniff moved in, breathing into
Lenny’s face again.
“Go on, you can fight a bit,
can’t you?” He was still
belligerent, but there was
entreaty in his voice, as he
jabbed Lenny with a left, right,
in the ribs. But the sting was
gone out of the blows. He was
not getting the pleasure he
wanted out of it.
Clarkey spoke up:
“Let ’im go, then, Sniff.” He
pulled the boy away from the
wall, spun him round, and
shoved him hard between the
shoulderblades. “Run, you
little squirt!” he said bitterly.
“You can do that, can’t you?”
Lenny staggered, recovered
his balance, and slowed to a
deliberate walk. He did not look
back.
“Run, I said!” bellowed
Sniff.
Lenny clenched his teeth, and
kept walking.
There was a patter of feet
behind him, and he hunched his
shoulders for the blow from the
fist he imagined clubbing him on
the back of the head. But he
still walked. Never run away
from trouble.
The sound of running feet
stopped. Sniff had only been
running on the spot to scare him,
but now he realised it was no
good. The kid had won, after
all.
he reached the street-
™ light on the Furnace-street
corner they were waiting for
him. Tom, and Lex and Fred
Harman.
Now that they were home and
safe, they all had expectant grins
on their faces as he came into
the circle of light, and they were
ready to laugh at him. He
walked up to them, tenderly
rubbing his bruised cheek with
the tips of his fingers. It was
up like a football. He wondered
what he could tell his dad about
it. Have to make up something
about a row with Harman.
“How’d you get on?” asked
Tom.
“All right,” he said.
“You were a mug to stay with
them,” laughed Lex. “Why
didn’t you come with me? I
knew they wouldn’t follow me
if they thought it was out of
their way.”
“You were all mugs to get
caught at all,” sneered Harman.
“Why didn’t you get out of it
like I did?” His eyes danced
as he inspected Lenny’s swelling.
“Well, they didn’t hurt you
much, anyway.”
Lenny felt anger rising in him
for the first time that night. On
the way home by himself, he had
begun to feel pretty good, and
yet these cobbers of his, who had
all run away in one way or
another, felt he should have run
too, and resented him because
he had not done so. Wishing
he could find some way to
explain why he had stayed, and
unable to convey the new feeling
of pride he had because he had
stuck with his trouble, he let
his head drop miserably, and
slumped his hand into the pocket
of his shorts. His fingers felt the
money there.
He looked up, drawing out the
coins, and holding them flat on
his palm. A sixpence and two
pennies.
“What’s that? Thought you
had no money,” exclaimed Tom.
“I thought you blokes had
guts,” he spat.
He picked up the two pennies
in his left hand, and tossed them
at Tom.
“There’s the tuppence you lost
getting home safe,” he said
sardonically.
He tossed the sixpence on the
ground at Lex’s feet.
o Continued on next page )


Kstablished 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institution throughout Australia
o'suixivajt
rtumZJj
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £ 1/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
[British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
style for no apparent reason, but,
like her father, she cooled-down
quickly.
Unfortunately I was not made
that way. We had a trivial argu-
ment before breakfast one morn-
ing, and instead of laughing it
off I ended it by refusing to take
her out with me for the day.
I regretted it as soon as I was
out of sight of the house; even
with the dogs for company the
ride seemed dreary and un-
interesting. There was no deny-
ing Julie was wonderful company
in the bush. She belonged to it.
She saw everything, was
interested in everything. She
could identify a certain bullock
before I could and spot a
kangaroo-rat’s nest before
Boozer had sniffed it out.
/"\NCE we had come on a dingo
skulking near the remains of
a calf he had killed. Without
speaking, without even glancing
at each other, we lifted our
horses into a gallop.
We chased that dingo through
semi-open country and thick
timber, we chased him over
ridges and across gullies in a
wild, reckless gallop. He was a
big dog, sleek-coated, fast and
cunning, but we were determined
to put an end to his calf-killing.
We closed with him on an
ironbark ridge between two
creeks. He was tiring then,
panting heavily and weaving
desperately. I pulled out one
of my stirrup-leathers, raced in
and swung at him with the heavy
iron. He dodged the blow, and
as he doubled back Julie raced at
him, swinging her stirrup-iron.
Down came the iron in a wild
swipe, but once again the dingo
doubled back at the critical
mopient. Jn a final desperate
burst of speed hq gained the
creek, scrambled down an almost
perpendicular bank and landed
in a large waterhole.
No horse would have leaped
down that bank, but we did. We
flung ourselves out of our saddles
and jumped, landing in water
waist-deep on me and chest-
deep on Julie. The dingo was
only a few yards ahead of us,
swimming feebly. He didn’t
swim far.
“We got him, Bob! We got
him!” Julie panted joyfully as
I dragged the body to the bank.
Soaked through, her hat miss-
ing and her hair in a tangled
mess, she looked anything but a
sophisticated young woman.
“You shouldn’t have pulled
your stirrup-leather out,” I told
her sternly. “It’s a damned
dangerous thing to do when
you’re galloping.”
“You did it,” she pointed out
with a certain amount of logic.
“What the hell’s that got to do
with it?” I was not in the mood
for that sort of logic. “Damn
and blast it, you’re a girl! You
don’t have to copy everything
I do.”
She laughed and said, “No,
Bob. I don’t want to scalp the
dingo. You can do that while
I go and find my hat.”
npHE Race Club Ball that year
was held on the twenty-fifth
of June. I drove Julie in after a
lot of grumbling about leaving a
warm fireside on the coldest
night of the year.
“There’s going to be a hell of
a frost tonight,” I complained,
glancing up at the glittering stars
as we got into the car. “Worse
than last night.”
“Who cares?” Julie laughed,
and I growled, “I do. I think
it’s a fool of an idea, turning out
for a dance on a night like this.
A man’ll freeze to death.”
I didn’t enjoy the ball. Jack
Stewart was away on a droving-
trip, and Reg, having just
announced his engagement, was
a temporarily reformed
character. To my mind the music
was below standard and the hall
uncomfortably crowded. Julie
had the first dance with young
Rex Wilson, and after a certain
amount of hesitation I walked
over to Carla and asked:
“Would you dance with me,
Carla?”
“Why not?” she answered.
“As a matter of fact I was hoping
you wouldn’t forget me
altogether.”
We talked about nothing in
particular as we danced. I com-
plained about the music and the
overcrowded floor and was
laughed at.
“I think I’ll stroll up to your
place and have a drink with
Doc.,” I said as I escorted Carla
back to her party. “You
wouldn’t care to come, would
you?”
“I would not,” she answered
laughingly. “Strange as it may
seem to you, Bob, I came here
to dance.”
I spent about an hour with
Dr. Greer, and came back feel-
ing the better for his company,
and perhaps his whisky. I
danced with Nita Wilson because
I felt a good lively dance would
help to warm me up, and I
danced with Julie because she
asked me to.
“Are you going to ask me
for another?” Julie asked as our
dance ended. For a moment I
felt like saying, “Save the whole
lot for me, Julie.” But instead
I suggested, “What about the
one after next?”
I kept away from her after
our second dance simply because
I had found it too unsettling.
At one-thirty we said our
farewells and left for home, with
the car spluttering its protests
against the cold.
“Enjoy yourself?” Julie asked
as the engine warmed and settled
to a steady purr.
“Not much,” I admitted.
■pLOODLIT trees flickered
past and vanished into the
darkness behind us. Chilly
draughts eddied through the car,
and 1 turned up the collar of my
overcoat and shivered.
Julie pulled her eveping-wrap
more tightly around herself and
said, “Gosh, it’s cold.” She
wriggled closer and pressed
lightly against me. “Ah, that’s
a bit better.”
A mile or more of trees
flickered past, and I remem-
bered how lightly clad Julie was.
I put my left arm around her
shoulders and she snuggled
closer against me.
“Much better,” she sighed.
It was. It was so much better
that, in spite of myself, my grip
of her tightened. The trees were
doing strange things, the road
was wriggling like a snake, and
I kept saying under my breath,
“Take your arm away, you mug.
Take it away before you make
a fool of yourself.”
Instead, I increased the pres-
sure. The effect was alarming.
Not only were the trees and the
road behaving strangely, but the
engine now joined in by refusing
to pull. I pressed hard on the
accelerator and nothing
happened. I pumped it experi-
mentally a few times, and the
only result was a sucking noise
of the intake. Slowly and surely
the car was rolling to a halt.
“Julie,” I said, “the engine’s
packed-up. It sounds like
ignition.”
I felt her move and I looked
down. In the glow from the
dash-light I could see her small
upturned face and there wasn’t a
single freckle visible.
“I know,” she answered
quietly. “I switched it off.”
My principles, my good
resolutions drifted out to lose
themselves with the memories of
Albert’s sneering taunt among
the scarcely-moving trees.
The car came to a stop, not
gradually, but with a good solid
thump as the front fender
buckled back from its impact
with a box sapling. Dew from
the sapling’s leaves spattered
heavily down on bonnet and
hood. Had it been branches and
hailstones we could not have
cared less.
Ten minutes later, according
to our reckoning, one hour and
forty minutes later according to
my watch, we decided to con-
tinue our drive home. The
engine, by its reluctance to start,
confirmed the fact that there was
nothing >vrong with my watch.
Obviously the engine was cold;
yet we were amazingly warm.
We stayed warm during the
rest of the drive home, although
it took us twice the usual time
to cover the distance.
The dogs greeted us as we put
the car away, and as I patted
them I said, “You’ve got another
boss now, and you’d better be
very nice to her or I’ll tan your
hides.”
Sneezer was, as usual, very
dignified and polite about it, but
Boozer bounded about as though
really delighted at the news and
wiped his dirty paws all over
Julie’s evening-frock.
“Isn’t it wonderful, Boozie?”
she asked, taking him in her
arms and hugging him. “Do you
mind sharing him with me?”
Those two had always had a
lot in common.
He answered by licking her
from ear to ear, and was not in
the least abashed by my rebuke.
'T'HERE was a light in the
J dining-room, we saw, as we
tiptoed along the veranda, and,
having a rough idea of the time,
I had a guilty feeling that Mrs.
Carson was sitting up worrying
over possible breakdowns or
even accidents:
She was sitting by the fire
when we opened the door and
the firelight was gleaming on
her white hair and softly reveal-
ing the calm beauty of her face.
She did not look in the least
worried.
Julie raced across the room,
dropped to her knees, threw both
arms around her mother’s neck
and said breathlessly, “Mummy!
Mummy darling! Guess what!”
Mrs. Carson hugged her and
looked up at me.
“After looking at the pair
of you,” she said, “I don’t think
I’ll have to guess very hard.”
“I’m going to tell Daddy,”
Julie announced, springing to her
feet. “I’ll bet he’ll be surprised.”
She ran out, and in a few
minutes she came back leading
her father.
Carson looked half-asleep and
wholly disgruntled. He had a
blanket draped around his
shoulders, only partly conceal-
ing his crumpled flannel
pyjamas. His white moustache
was in a disordered tangle, and
he was blinking at the firelight.
“Daddy,” Julie said, half-
dragging him towards me, “Bob
and I are going to be married.”
Carson glared at me. He
shook himself impatiently free
from Julie’s grasp.
“What?” he roared. “Damn
and blast it, you don’t mean to
say you dragged me out of bed
at this hour to tell me that!”
He scratched his head, and a
puzzled look spread over his
flushed face.
“1 dunno,” he said. “I’m
damned if I do. I’ve been wait-
ing twelve blasted months for
you to make up your minds, and
you have to pick a time like this
to do it. Well, thank God you’ve
done it at last. I’m going back
to bed.”
The door slammed behind
him, and I said softly, “Good old
Carson. You’ll do me.”
THE END
“Why’n’t you run up and see
if the last tram for Newtown’s
gone yet?”
He turned to Fred Harman.
Fred was still grinning down at
him, as he said:
“Bit touchy, aren’t you? Any-
one would think it was us had
belted you.”
Lenny looked up at his glitter-
ing brownish-black eyes, and
knew Harman didn’t care one
little bit. Harman had got into
a fight, and ducked out of it
without being hurt, as usual.
Lenny stared at him, thinking:
It was Fred those punches were
for —he earned them.
Slowly he clenched his fists
down by his sides, as another of
his dad’s sayings ran through
his mind: If you have to hit
someone, hit him hard and hit
him first.
His fist began to swing.
“This is for you,” he grunted.
He had to reach up, but he hit
Harman flush on the nose, so
that the big fellow went back
two paces and sat down hard.
Lenny left him there, and
turned his back on the others,
making for his front gate. He
rubbed his tingling knuckles
slowly over his throbbing cheek,
and squared his shoulders. He
was beginning to feel good again,
and he didn’t care whether the
others understood or not.
The others let him go without
a word. By tacit agreement, the
Furnace-street gang was under
new leadership.
AIKICHI KUBOYAMA
For Judith Wright
[Aikichi Kuboyama was the first H-bomb
casualty. “Shi no hai,” or ashes ol
death.]
I
Aikichi Kuboyama was a fisher-
man’s name.
He watched the sun come out of
the sea
Like a red chrysanthemum.
There was a smell of cooking;
There was a smell of fish ;
Aikichi, in rope-soled sandals,
Made a wish
On the great chrysanthemum sun
That he might grow blooms like
that
When his fishing days were
done.
Aikichi Kuboyama was a fisher-
man’s name.
He fished for tuna-fish
On the Fortunate Dragon.
II
The radio is spluttering
In a wooden shack.
“Aikichi will fix it
When he comes back.
He is fishing for tuna-fish
And will be many months gone
Put-putting on the ocean
In the Fortunate Dragon.”
m
Aikichi Kuboyama was
Shortsighted. He would blink
And hold a coin close to his nose
And tilt his head and think
Of molecules and filaments
Of atoms and prize blooms
And green-tea-drinking
In paper-walled rooms.
Aikichi Kuboyama was
Shortsighted. I think
He merely shrugged his
shoulders
When the sun went “blink.”
IV
Aikichi Kuboyama looked
At the petals and pollen
From cherry-blossom branches
On the back of his hand fallen.
Aikichi Kuboyama looked
At the ocean sky
At the white ashes falling
The “shi no hai.”
v
Aikichi Kuboyama
Was carried to a house
Flat on a stretcher
As quiet as a mouse.
Aikichi Kuboyama
He did not want to die
Of the ashes of destruction
The “shi no hai.”
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


One-man Canoe-fishing
Kite-flying and
Automation
By
OLAF RUHEN
Author and the kite.
ONCE a month, or some-
times not so often, the
wallowing old tub Chin-
ampa, designed mainly of
afterthoughts and named for a
Mexican oil-field,- negotiates the
Dawson Straits between the
islands of Fergusson and
Normanby in the D’Entre-
casteaux group, and, after paying
its duty calls at Salamo or Sebu-
lugoma or the Government
station at Esa-Ara, heads east-
north-east through the Dobu
Passage.
If it is one of the dancing
days of the lazy north-west
monsoon, it is at this point you
begin to feel that Nature has
nothing more to offer.
To starboard, the squat vol-
cano of Dobu, not dead but
sleeping, throws its threatening
grey-black contours against a
blue sky. To port lies its twin,
an even shakier mountain on
Fergusson Island; and from its
shoulder curls the mounting
steam of a vast thermal region,
all geysers and boiling pools and
delicately colored, exquisitely
formed silicate terraces, an
Australian wonderland that Aus-
tralians never visit, preferring the
more widely publicised wonders
of New Zealand’s Rotorua.
Ahead is the low bulk of
Sanaroa Island and, at a nearer
vantage, the Lion Rock, lapped
by waters of a magical potency:
if a voyager should pause there
to wash he will suffer no ill until
his travels are ended; and
already the crew are preparing
buckets to seize the opportunity.
If there is any wind at all,
somewhere in this vicinity you
will see a small canoe, its
occupant paddling gently down
the wind flying a kite.
It is a remarkably steady kite,
a tiny fabrication of leaves with
a fluttering pandanus tail, a black
patch against the cerulean
emptiness; but, as you watch, it
signals violently, and appears to
struggle upwards against some
violent opponent.
Away beneath it there is a
thrashing of surface water, a
turmoil that in a little while
subsides ; and at this point the
occupant of the canoe hauls on
'.he line.
Once he has the kite inboard
he sets it in the bow with delicate
care before he continues haul-
ing on a further line extended
from the base of the tail; and
in no time at all he lands a fine
fish, a long-tom, a clothyard of
exaggerated garfish.
This, of course, is automation
applied to fishing; one of the
earliest of many examples of
primitive automation that have
come to my notice.
The use of the machine of
which the kite is the key-
component entirely eliminates
the second man of the canoe’s
crew; and it would take this
second man to skip the bait so
delicately over the surface at a
distance from the craft, to
imitate so successfully the move-
ments of the flying-fish on which
the long-tom feeds, to signal the
strike to the paddler, and to play
and tire the fish, holding its head
so firmly above the water when
it is hooked.
And it is a form of auto-
mation which has been in use
for so many thousands of years
that it is possible to evaluate its
total effect on community
employment and prosperity with
a quite unemotional detachment.
So, months after I had first
seen the Dobu kite-fishing, I
landed at a little village on the
island, pulling a dinghy through
the surf at a point where the
water was patchily hot from
submarine hot springs. Here
the sulphur-gas rises in such
quantity that a very brief stay
is sufficient to clean a small
ship’s bottom of weed and
barnacles, but a very brief stay,
unfortunately, is all that is pos-
sible between tides.
The people of this part were
air-minded, I noticed. Crowds
of them stood at the top of the
cliffs, with spinning play-
windmills, laughing and shouting
with the children amongst them.
Ashore, in the village of
Deluba, an old man, Dedo-ido,
sat on a mat in the shade of his
hut, constructing a kite.
His fingers were skilful and
clever. He used a very fine cane,
hardly thicker than the straw of
cocksfoot-grass, but strong and
tough. With this for fastening
and stiffener, he threaded
together a pattern of selected
leaves into a kite shape. From
the centre and the corners of the
squared front, three little dia-
monds of leaf fluttered on short
strings, and there were two more
amidships, one each at port and
starboard. Dedo-ido explained
that these gave lateral and, with
the tail, longitudinal stability.
I have the kite in my study
today. It has no hook. The
self-sufficient bait, at the end of
They use this (says Ola ) to catch fish.
a long line from the tail, is a
clump of the web of the St.
George Cross spider, and it
constantly renews its efficiency
when wet with seawater. Its life
is 18 months, the life of the kite
under constant use; and it is
quite adequate to entangle the
strong jaws of a big fish.
All the twine used in manu-
facture and application is hand-
rolled from the fibre of the
pandanus-root, and is very
strong and light. Operation of
the gear is simple, and does not
interfere with the manipulation
of the canoe.
Not only do these people have
a high protein-intake from their
simplified fishing but their
workaday canoes need be only
tiny—one-man canoes, perhaps
a third the size of a two-man
canoe, requiring much less con-
struction and much less timber,
the latter in sizes more readily
available. Yet each canoe brings
home as much fish.
These Dobuan canoes are
sometimes only about one-sixth
the size of the craft normally
used by fishing-teams in these
islands.
On the other hand a great
many more canoes are used.
Each fisherman is independent
of his fellows ; and there is, of
course, a consequent additional
trade —that of kitemaker —in the
village.
Thus, so far from decreasing
the available work, it seemed to
me that this automotive device
had increased it, increasing at
the same time the benefits
derived from work. And I would
guess that this result derived,
not from its automotive aspects,
but from the fact that, like all
automotive machinery, it is
primarily labor-saving. And to
me the most remarkable feature
of labor-saving machinery is the
amount of work it creates.
Before, the vacuum-cleaner,
the careful housewife spring-
cleaned her carpets once a year,
with an amazing outburst of
energy that still brings remi-
niscent shudders from old-
timers like myself. Now, in
effect, she expends one-twentieth
the energy on her carpets, and
cleans them once a week —just
50 times as often.
Cloth-making is performed
entirely by labor-saving machines
these days, and where a suit of
homespun lasted a man a life-
time a modern cloth outfit lasts
half a year.
The automobile is a labor-
saver, and it takes an enormous
industry to keep it going. Not
only that, but before it came the
average man travelled only a
fraction of the distance he covers
today.
When the super-super-jet gets
us to London in four hours,
saving a considerable amount of
time and energy, who is going
to tally-up the work of the
metallurgists who have produced
water - cooled, pore - breathing
“Honeycomb Sandwiches” of
Inconel X, or Multimet, or
Armco 17-7 PH, or any other of
the fantastic new metals which
will then be essential to offset
heat-friction? Or the hours of
the mathematicians, who are
even now perfecting the new
techniques of navigation which
will be necessary?
A friend of mine, newly
married to a working wife,
played host to me not long ago,
and I was interested that he
mashed the potatoes with an
electric mixer. Counting in the
time spent in removing potato-
mash from walls and floor, and
the time in washing the compli-
cated gadget, he spent far more
energy than I do with a fork ;
and I claim to mash a pretty
potato myself.
That takes no account of the
terrific organisational problems
of evolution, production, distri-
bution and design that lie behind
his wonder-worker ; nor the fact
that he had to work hours longer
to buy his mixer than I did to
buy my fork.
At about the same time I
listened to the claims of a
Government - employed young
architect who, with all the
enthusiasm of youth, was listing
the benefits that modern archi-
tecture had given to modern
man; not least among them
being factors involved with the
best utilisation of leisure.
I didn’t in any way disagree
with him; though there are
facets of modern architecture
which do not entirely appeal to
my taste or to my comfort, I
am wholly with the innovator
in the efficient use of new
materials and new techniques.
But I did point out to him that
we were at the time sitting in a
room of one of a row of houses
that were built for working-men
some 80 years before ; that the
company assembled belonged to
the professional classes, yet, like
most of the inhabitants of the
row, counted themselves lucky
to be living where they were ;
that houses were indeed pricing
themselves beyond the reach of
the ordinary man, in spite of the
greater efficiencies available to
the builders; and that the
advances had so far been of
benefit to very few of us.
The community, in fact, has
never been so short of houses as
it is today. There are not nearly
enough houses being built to go
round. Even at those times when
the building-industry has to
tighten-up for lack of purchasers
there are still too few houses.
And too few cars, and too few
washing-machines, and, for that
matter, not enough eggs, in spite
of a degree of mechanisation
in the poultry-industry.
Each labor-saving device or
technique is claimed to be a
harbinger of greater leisure for
the people. Against its introduc-
tion is postulated the thesis that
it will put men out of work.
Neither argument is more than
temporarily true.
The community is unable to
meet its own demands without a
tribute of work from each of its
members, and any additional
leisure individuals may enjoy is
filched from the community
welfare-chest. Our days are as
arduous and our tasks as time-
consuming as were the days and
the tasks of primitive man ; and
our capacity for leisure, as his
was, is limited by the amount of
time the community can afford
to let us devote to it.
I do not think the Dobu people
fought against the. introduction
of the fishing-kite as a machine
which would put half of their
canoemen out of work; nor yet
hailed it as something which
would enable them to laze away
half their week. It increased
their efficiency and their protein-
intake, and with that they were
content.
It also provided, over the
centuries, a delightfully sedentary
but responsible and skilled occu-
pation for men like Dedo-ido,
the kitemaker of Deluba. And —
who knows? —his studies of aero-
dynamics may yet influence the
world of aviation.
Some day, when opportunity
occurs, I’ll get an expert to
examine the five little outriggers
on his automotive fish-catchers.
“North-Easterner”: A new
R.S.L. memorial-hall in Tas-
mania’s north-eastern town of
Ringarooma has got away to a
good start. While it was building,
a decorated tree was placed on
the roof, by the New Australian
builder, following the traditions
of his birthplace, to drive away
ghosts and evil spirits. Just
before the final sheets of roofing
went on, one of the workmen
made a loud noise, causing any
lurking ghost to leave hurriedly,
and, before it had a chance to
re-enter, the space where the
tree stood was covered over. At
the Sunday-afternoon opening a
crowd stood outside while the
R.C. padre blessed the building.
Inside the hall a quarter-of-an-
hour later another crowd
assembled to take part in a ser-
vice of dedication conducted by
the Anglican padre, assisted by
a Presbyterian and Methodist.
The foundations should be pretty
secure after all that!


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Canterbury Guineas and
the six-furlongs Canterbury
Stakes at w.f.a. will highlight
next Saturday’s racing in
Sydney.
El Khobar is expected to add
the Canterbury Stakes to his
winning sequence. Starover and
Gay Vista are sprinters of
ability, and could be in the
money.
The Canterbury Guineas pro-
mises to be keenly contested, best
prospects being Movie Boy,
Zaheida, Gay Sierra, Grenoble
and Gay Lover.
The field for the Memsie
Stakes at Caulfield next Satur-
day is, at time of writing,
expected to include Sailor’s
Guide, who figures in the Mel-
bourne Cup on 9.2, and in the
Caulfield Cup with 21b. more.
Syntax is rated 51b. superior to
Sailor’s Guide in the Melbourne
Cup. Sailor’s Guide won the
Sydney Cup last autumn with
8.2. He has done well during
his winter spell; has grown a
little taller and filled-out.
Most of the 28,000-crowd at
Warwick Farm last Saturday
were mainly interested in the
first Sydney appearance of the
New Zealand champion Syntax
and his race-conditioned fellow-
Enzedder El Khobar. Syntax
hadn’t raced since winning in
N.Z. in April. His Dominion
form was far superior to that of
any horse that raced there last
season, but as the horses paraded
in the enclosure at the Farm it
was evident that he wasn’t as
forward in condition as El
Khobar, who was made a warm
favorite. N. Sellwood had his
third winning ride on El
Khobar, whose ability to settle
down more quickly than Syntax
and go to the front at will
enabled him to hold off his for-
midable rival in the final run.
Sydney’s best stayer, Caranna,
finished third.
Norman Holland, rider of
Syntax, declared that El Khobar
would not again finish in front
of him. Maybe he will be
proved right; it looks more
than a bit that way after their
first clash.
••. • •
Randwick trainer Ted Hush
got a lot of satisfaction from
the running of the Warwick
Stakes. He prepares Caranna for
A. E. and G. W. Cobcroft, and
the A.J.C. Derby winner handed
out a most promising perform-
ance. He was among the tail-
enders at the half-mile, where
he was conceding El Khobar
more than a dozen lengths, and
even at the home-turn was still
one of the rearguard. Caranna’s
third immediately brought him
into favor for the Metropolitan
and Melbourne Cup. He has
8.12 (21b. under w.f.a.) in both
staying races. He won the
Queensland St. Leger in June
and two days later was a close
second to Redcraze in the two-
mile Brisbane Cup.
There doesn’t appear any
reason why El Khobar shouldn’t
stay a bit of distance, despite
supposed expert opinions to the
contrary. He is expected to
clean-up most of the short-
distance w.-f.-a. contests ; on his
showing at Warwick Farm
opponents will have a job of
staying with him in such events.
His sire, Gabador (imp.), was
bred by Marcel Boussac, and was
one of the best thoroughbreds
to be imported to New Zealand
—a son of classic-winning
parents and a brother of Ardan,
a French champion of post-war
years. Most of Gabador’s pro-
geny have shown sprinting
ability, but on the dam’s side
El Khobar could be relied upon
to show some staying form. His
dam, Gay Abandon, was got by
Theio (imp.) from Silver Beam
by Silverado (imp.) from Spot-
light by Nassau (imp.). A second
foal, El Khobar is closely related
to Argentic, a dual winner of the
C.J.C. Metropolitan Handicap
(N.Z.) —in record time on the
second occasion—and he also
was second in the Auckland Cup
(two miles). Saint Warden, a
winner of the Caulfield Cup, and
a dual winner of the Port
Adelaide Cup, and Starland, a
winner of the Auckland Cup,
both appear ,in El Khobar’s
bloodlines ; all of which certainly
gives him a staying-background
on the dam’s side.
No doubt connections of
Advocate, winner of his last
four races —three at Warwick
Farm and the Rosehill Cup-
now regret that the aged entire
wasn’t nominated for the
Metrop. However, that Rand-
wick staying-event has not
favored the older brigade. Advo-
cate will be reserved mostly for
staying w.-f.-a. contests, in
which he will strike tough
opposition from Syntax,
Caranna and other top per-
formers.
Leading trainers, who have so
many horses in work that it
can’t be avoided, often start two
of their charges in the same
event, and it frequently happens
that the less-fancied of two
runners beats the stable elect.
This happened once more at
Warwick Farm, when outsider
Fire Flash was lucky to beat
Pacemaker in the Wallacia
Handicap. Both are trained at
Rosehill by M. F. Anderson,
who preferred Pacemaker’s
chance, and was right—up to
the final few strides. In fact,
backers of Pacemaker would
have collected had he not shied
near the winning-line. This
threw him out of his stride and
enabled Fire Flash to get the
verdict by a nose. Jockey
George Moore, rider of Pace-
maker, wasn’t exactly smiling
when he returned to dismount.
It was one more race that
should have gone his way. He
had won earlier in the afternoon
on Movie Boy, and on one of
Anderson’s gallopers, Matouree,
subsequently had an easy win
in the final event. Pacemaker
should have made it a treble,
but the incident was just one of
those things always likely to
separate punters from their
money at the moment they were
feeling for their tickets.
Movie Boy’s brother, Prince
Jam bo, and his sister, Love To
All, have been sprinters only;
nevertheless the three-year-old
colt is to be set for the A.J.C.
Derby. One member of the
family-line was Chanak, winner
of several races in best-class
company in Melbourne and a
close second in a V.R.C. Derby.
Movie Boy has come from
behind to win at his last two
starts —at Randwick over seven
furlongs and at a mile at War-
wick Farm, displays which sug-
gest that he should be capable of
making a really good showing in
the A.J.C. classic. His sire,
Jambo (imp.), won races
to li mile in England, and his
grandsire, Felicitation, won the
Ascot Gold Cup, 2\ miles. His
dam, Saros, was got by Helles-
pont (Fr.) from Studio by Man-
fred (who ran second to Wind-
bag in the 1925 Melbourne Cup,
the most thrilling race of that
season).
Knave, unfancied in the
Warwick Stakes, beat all except
the placed horses. He could be
an Epsom show with 8.13. He
won the Q.T.C. Stradbroke
Handicap in June with 8.7, but
had nothing to do with the finish
of the Doomben Ten Thousand,
in which he started at long
odds.
Battle Order won last Satur-
day’s Moonee Valley Morang
Handicap for three-year-old
colts and geldings by half-a-
dozen lengths ; he had won at the
same track last January, and
was ridden a heady race in front
by young apprentice P. Bakos.
Battle Order, who revelled in the
soft-track conditions, is a gelded
son of Carbon Copy and Jungle
Green. The dam is by Deitical
from Green Moth by Greenstead
from Air Woman by Bright
Steel (imp.).
Jockey Arthur Clarke, who
recently completed his appren-
ticeship with Rosebery trainer
Fred Hood, had his most im-
portant success to date when he
won Newcastle’s £2OOO Cameron
Handicap on rank outsider and
veteran galloper English
Standard. Clarke went to New-
castle to ride horses for the
Hood stable, but secured the
English Standard mount on
Saturday morning because he
could take it at the horse’s
poundage (7.9) without having
to declare overweight. Sticking
to the rails till the home-turn,
where the leaders fanned out,
Clarke shot his mount through
to hit the front in the final half-
furlong, downing Cragsley and
Briar Bush in good style.
* * *
No one underestimated West-
ralian pacer Marine Dealer in
his Harold Park appearance on
Saturday night. It was his. first
tun in Sydney since he and his
trainer-driver, S. Woodworth,
were disqualified last year. He
went to the mark odds-on
favorite against a solid 2.18-front
field, and Woodworth drove him
with all the confidence of a driver
aware of the potential at the
end of his reins. Soon chased
to the front past the fast early
leader, Lynbury, he gave his pur-
suers a fright they weren’t able
to get over ; deceptively swishing
his tail, he went to the post full
of running. He still requires a
win to qualify for the 2.14 class
Spring Cup. In next Friday’s
Hurlstone Park Handicap he
bumps Victoria’s Argent, after
two wins to qualify, and is
asked to give her 12yds. Fit —
and she should be now —the
Victorian Speedster should toss
him.
Old Strathfield Jack proved
he’s fit as a fiddle by racing away
with Saturday’s Flying Mile,
rating 2.8 and being first in by
3| lengths. A consistent moke,
Strathfield was having his first
run from a spell that put a lot of
beef under his girth, but he races
big, and he skipped over Satur-
day’s mile with a willingness that
suggests he’ll run the longer
handicap-distances to a nicety in
a few weeks. Gay Knight also
crept in from his hibernation for
a fast-finishing second and a
mile-rate of 2.7|. Both these
old-stagers will test the young-
’uns in the spring.
4- +
First lass to break the
“impossible” smin. for 400-
metres and the slightly longer
440yds., the swimming equiva-
lent of the 4min.-mile, Aus-
tralia’s Lorraine Crapp, who on
Saturday night at Townsville
swam the 400-metres in 4min.
50.8 sec. and 440yds. in 4min.
52.45ec. Her swim also knocked
sideways a raft of other records,
Australian and whatnot. As a
striking measure of her quality,
twice in the three days before-
hand she’d “unofficially” broken
the smin. Lorraine Crapp must
now be regarded as one of the
greatest women athletes the
world has produced. Not as
remarkable a swim, but world-
ranking for all that, Dawn
Fraser’s new world time for 100-
metres (63.35ec.), set at the same
carnival.
* * *
The three batsmen brought
back by the English selectors,
one at a time in each of the last
three Tests, each succeeded
admirably in his first “come-
back” innings. First there was
Washbrook, with his 98 in the
third Test beginning when Eng-
land was 3-17 ; then Sheppard,
113 in the fourth Test (he didn’t
face any collapse—it was 1-174
when he went in); and, in the
fifth Test, Compton, who, start-
ing off, like Washbrook, when
England could have got into a
bad skid, played one of his best
innings ever, for 94.
“K.R.”: The best partnership
in Australia’s first innings in the
fifth Test was Miller and Lind-
wall’s ninth-wicket stand of 48.
The “old firm” have often
bowled together for long spells;
but, in Tests or otherwise, I
can’t recall any previous batting-
partnership of any length
between ’em.
* * *
The first V.F.L. semi-final, at
the M.C.G., with Footscray
defeating Geelong 5.13-6.5, gave
the 80,502 spectators their
money’s-worth. Conditions were
windy and greasy; but two
solid, bustling defences were the
main cause of the low, erratic
goal-shooting. Geelong, too
pacy at first, led 4.2-1.3 at
quarter-time, and was still in
front 6.2-4.6 at half-time. It
suffered a severe loss soon after
when two of its men, skipper
Davis and ruckman Sharp,
collided, and Sharp had to go
off ; he’d been playing a cracker
game. ’Scray’s greater physical
strength began to tell; but it
was still even slogging, and the
scores were level for half the
last quarter. Only one goal was
kicked in the second half —one
of ’Scray full-forward Cross’s
four.
Winner of the 1956 Brownlow
Medal is Footscray centreman
Peter Box, with Geelong’s Peter
Pianto runner-up. Box has
played consistent football all
through, and five times was
acclaimed best man afield.
Badly injured in a car-accident
in 1952, he made a comeback
to football next year; this year
he was in Victoria’s Carnival
team. He is the second Footscray
man to win the Brownlow,
Norman Ware (1941) being the
first.
“Symonym”: Peter Box is a
decisive, deft player and a high
flyer for marks, but one of his
greatest sporting assets is concen-
tration. He is also very keen
on tennis, and Harry Hopman
almost picked him as a Davis
Cup possibility before he went
to Footscray six years ago;
Hopman probably regrets now
losing Box to what he calls
“aerial ping-pong.” Box, now
24, looks every inch (sft. 10|in.;
list. 121 b) a Davis Cup sort,
and the V.F.L.’s scouts are prob-
ably relieved Hopman is now
quartered in Sydney and even
less likely to pick the eyes of
their collection of recruits each
season.
“Aqua”: On August 11
Essendon fielded the oldest and
youngest players in the senior
League on that day. Skipper
Bill Hutchison, at 33, is the one,
and 16-year-old Bob Shearman
the other. Bob wore No. 35
guernsey, its first appearance in
the team for six years, since
champion Perce Bushby left the
club. Apropos, the following
week, against Geelong, “Hutch”
was voted best man afield.
Western Suburbs (Sydney)
full-forward Terry Ingersoll,
with eight goals in the first
semi-final, took his tally so far
this year to 109 goals. When he
reached 101 goals after the last
competition-round a Melbourne
paper reported that he was the
first player in Sydney’s first-
grade Australian Rules to kick
100 goals in a season. It didn’t
dig deep enough in the records:
Stan Powditch, of St. George,
kicked 101 goals by the end of
the 1937 competition-games, and
went on in the finals to 115 all
told. Ingersoll, who may pass
that tally, has signed-up with
Hawthorn for 1957. ,
* * *
In Sydney Rugby Union’s
first semi-final, St. George,
winning 11-3, knocked Eastern
Suburbs out of the running. It
was to some extent a repeat of
their game the previous week,
with the forwards dominating
proceedings; in both games
Saints’ pack shaded East’s. Best
back on the field was big winger
Edgar Stapleton, who, though
passed over by the Test-selectors
this year, has been playing well
in club-matches. As centre
against East he “made” St.
George’s first try, scored its
second after a fine run and also
kicked a goal and a penalty.
* * *
In a bright and open game,
marred at times by bad handling,
“bombed” tries and, conversely,
some slovenly defensive work,
St. George beat Balmain 30-25
in Sydney Rugby League’s
second semi-final. St. George
scored six tries to three, and it
was Balmain’s fullback Barnes
(eight goals) who kept Balmain
within distance. On Sunday, in
Sydney, a City team beat a
Country team 34-22, and, at
Wollongong, Southern Division
just pipped the Maoris 17-16.
T * *
Harry Berwick, after his
brilliant win in the Australian
amateur golf championship, won
the Lakes (Sydney) Open with
a four-round aggregate of 305
—second amateur ever to win
the title. Behind Berwick, on
308, were W. Bolger and Eric
Cremin, who shared the pro.
purse. Early leader Barry
Warren crashed over the final
stages, to finish sixth on 310.
The N.S.W. amateur mixed
foursomes golf title went to
Barry Warren and Miss June
Gillespie, with a record two-
rounds total of 148 —74 and 74.
They won last year with an
aggregate of 155. Keith Pix and
Miss Pat Borthwick hold the
Australian record —147.
* * *
“Allan B.”: America is to
send a team of 326 athletes to
the Olympic Games. Every’
event will be contested whether
there is a chance of winning it
or not. Counting officials, 420
all told will be coming, and it
will cost two-million dollars to
bring them over. The dough
has been raised in the States
without any Government assist-
ance.


Lawson Anniversary
When Henry Died
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
ON a mild spring morning
—the first Sunday in
September, 34 years ago
—the Sunday newspapers
told us that Henry Lawson had
died the day before in his small,
now-long-vanished cottage on the
Great North Road, Abbotsford,
a Sydney suburb overlooking the
Parramatta River.
At the time, a young fellow
of 20, X was spending the week-
end with Hughie Maclean, black-
and-white artist, who had a
camp in a grove of banksia-trees
in Griffith Park, between Dee
Why and Oollaroy, on the road
to Barrenjoey from Manly.
Hughie was one of a colony
of writers and artists who dwelt
in tents among the banksias and
tea-trees, worked on tables made
of driftwood, and lived mostly,
it seemed, on fish, and on prawns
from the Narrabeen lakes.
“Hughie Maclean,” said Norman
Lindsay, “averaged one single-
column drawing a month in
The Bulletin, and managed to
exist on that one source of
income.” Yet I have never
known a happier, more carefree
person.
That Sunday morning there
drifted to Hughie’s tent, in ones
and twos, various members of
the Griffith Park colony, and
some—including Jimmy Muir-
Auld, the artist—who lived in
bungalows on the Dee Why
hillside. Those who came
included Les Robinson (still
going strong); long, lean Cecil
Hartt; Mick Paul, with his black
beard; and A. E. Rosebray,
friend of Harry Garlick, the
animal painter. I can still
remember how, on that Sep-
tember morning, with the wattle
aglow on the Collaroy plateau
and the boronia in bloom along
the Powderworks-road, they all
talked of Henry and “the days
when the world was wide.”
For myself, all that Sunday
there was an image of Henry
that would not leave my mind.
It was my last picture of him,
as he appeared to me the
Wednesday before he died.
Henry had come to The
Bulletin office —then at 214
George-street with George
Reeve, of the “Windsor and
Richmond Gazette,” a wild,
improbable-looking fellow, an
ardent Danny De Leon Socialist,
who was an authority on the
family histories of the early
settlers along the Hawkesbury
River. George helped to found
the Henry Lawson Society in
Sydney some time after Henry’s
death —the same society that
Jack Vincent and Lucy Cassidy
are trying to revive today.
George also wrote a biography
of Lawson, the manuscript of
which went to London, but never
saw publication.
Henry had called that day to
leave with David McKee Wright
the last piece of prose he was to
write, one of the “Elderman’s
Lane” series either “The
Reformation of Johnson” or
“The Passing of Elderman’s
Lane” —which was published in
The Bulletin after his death.
As I came from the editorial
department down the steep,
narrow, cedar stairway at that
old address I saw Henry in the
door of the cashier’s office,
negotiating with Tom McMahon,
the accountant, for a delivery-
payment for the manuscript he
had brought in.
Sometimes Henry insisted on
at least three payments—an
advance-payment before a story
or verse was written, a payment
on delivery of a manuscript,
and another payment, on publi-
cation, with sundry five-shillings
in between. Heaven knows how
Tom McMahon kept track of
Henry’s financial relationship
with the office.
On the front-counter were
scattered Henry’s battered grey
felt hat, his walking-stick (the
one he had swapped years before
with J’. F. Archibald), his pipe
(the old Irish bog-oak pipe that
Rod Quinn had given him), and
matches, handkerchief and
sundry letters and papers belong-
ing to him.
I noticed that Henry had a
look of care, more than usual,
graven deep into his thin, pale,
hollowed face. He had the
appearance of a very sick man.
As a matter of fact, he had never
fully recovered from the illness
that had put him into the Coast
Hospital at Little Bay the
previous September. His grey
hair was bedraggled ; but, though
his grey suit was crumpled, his
high, starched collar was, as
always, gleaming white.
As I neared him he greeted me
with his usual salute —hand to
his forehead, palm outward —
and his customary long, firm
handshake, reminding me, as I
was always reminded whenever
I was greeted by Henry, of
David Low’s true-Jp-life carica-
ture drawn for Jim Tyrrell
(rather than the Longstaff,
Mahony and Rodway portraits),
and Ernest O’Ferrall’s amusing
poem, “Shaking Hands with
Harry.”
Henry took a letter from the
scattered assortment on the
counter and invited me to read
it. It was from a pupil in a
bush school, in a round school-
boy’s hand, not unlike Henry’s
own, and with as many mistakes
in spelling. The boy spoke of
liking Henry’s “Andy’s Gone
with Cattle” and “Ballad of the
Drover,” and asked Henry to
send him “a letter in your own
all for myself.”
When I finished reading the
letter from somewhere out near
Bogan Gate, Henry’s brown
eyes brightened and twinkled,
and, speaking in that strange,
nasal voice of his, between
chuckles, he said: “Wants a
letter in my own fist, and I
haven’t a stamp; and even if
I did my tongue would be too
dry to lick it.” Humor
characteristic of Henry and his
writings. Then, at the counter,
still chuckling, Henry wrote a
letter in reply to the boy out near
Bogan Gate.
And on that Wednesday, in
the same round handwriting, he
autographed for me a copy of
Vance Marshall’s The World of
the Living Dead: Prison Poems
and Sketches, for which Henry
wrote the preface. Vance
Marshall, who also wrote Jail
from Within, is still knocking
about Sydney ; a sprightly old-
timer, who, like George Reeve,
also wrote a Lawson biography
which never saw print.
That Wednesday several of
Henry’s mates drifted into The
Bulletin office, as was their
habit when the news got around
that Henry was in town. Joe
Noonan, of the “Worker,”
turned-up; so did little Charlie
Hynes, who also wrote for the
“Worker,” then edited by Harry
Boote, one of Henry’s best
friends; P. T. Freeman, of the
oversewn overcoat worn to hide
worse patches; Walter Hegarty,
struggling freelance journalist,
who dropped down and died
himself when he heard of
Lawson’s death. And Perce
Cowan, another freelance
journalist who always took it
upon himself to steer Henry to
his tram ; or to his ferry when
Henry was living in North
Sydney, somewhere near Blue’s
Point Road, or in Euroka-street.
On the back of Perce’s fiddle
Henry wrote the inscription:
“To my mate, Perce Cowan, and
his violin, with the gratitude for
light in dark hours.”
The six of them left together,
headed for the Brooklyn Hotel.
Perce Cowan took Henry’s arm
to guide him through the traffic,
but before he did Henry turned
and saluted The Bulletin office.
That was the last time 1 saw
Henry.
Upstairs, outside my cubby-
hole on the editorial floor,
George Reeve, who did not
drink, to my knowledge, was
waiting impatiently. So was
temperamental Lala Fisher,
then associated with Frank Hill
Frontispiece portrait in Lawson’s “The Auld
Shop and the New” which is now a
Lawson-collector’s dream.
in running the “Theatre Maga-
zine.” Lala brushed George
aside and took possession of me,
and when she had stated her
business 1 told her I had just
been speaking to Henry Lawson.
Laughing, she opened her
capacious handbag and showed
me a letter Henry had once
written to her, which she
treasured, carrying it always
with her:
Dear Mrs. Fisher [the letter ran],
I hear that my friend Bod Quinn is
i11....1 don’t want Bod to die yet
(for a week or two) because I’ve got
my black suit in pop.—Yours, Henry
Dawson.
George Reeve, who was
extremely touchy—as touchy as
Lala —and somewhat of a
misogynist as well, left in a huff
and a hurry, muttering through
his fierce black moustache
something about “confounded
female poets” and “bloody
creeks and gullies,” the latter
being a reference to an
anthology Lala had edited in
1899 called By Creek and Gully,
which contained contributions by
Douglas Sladen and A. Patchett
Martin, whose writings George
disliked intensely.
My impressions on the Sunday
following Henry’s death I have
given in the article in Henry
Lawson by His Mates.
The Monday following was
press-day, always a busy day.
and made more so on account of
Henry’s death.
The editor, S. H. Prior, was in
England at the time; on his
return, the following January,
he threw his "“sprig of rosemary”
in Lawson’s memory in a “Red
Page” article, wherein he told of
his last meeting with Henry:
“So you’re going away?”
Henry said. “Well, that’s the
end of me.” Later he said to
S.H.: “I am a bit afraid of you
—you’re so damned serious
when you talk to me, you and
George Robertson, that when I
give you a promise and don’t
keep it I’m ashamed of myself
the next day.”
To me (I was his secretary
then) S.H. said: “Poor Henry!
Though it was not always easy,
I’m glad to say that he and I got
along pretty well together.”
That Monday, dapper little
John Bede Dailey, who was edit-
ing the paper during Prior’s
absence, had me ransacking the
archives for details of Henry’s
career, and chasing up to King-
street to May Moore, the photo-
grapher, for a press print o'f the
dead poet. David McKee Wright
hurried down from his Glen-
brook mountain-retreat with a
“Red Page” evaluation of
Lawson’s prose and verse, and a
poem, “The Dead Poet.” Andree
Hayward, who had not long
joined The Bulletin, also wrote
a poem.
All day Jim Johnson, the one-
armed switchboard operator,
who always reckoned there was
more money in punting than
poetry, was kept busy as the tele-
phone rang. There were frequent
calls from other newspaper
offices, checking particulars of
Henry's life and verse: “Was it
true that his mother was a
gipsy?” “How did he come to be
called Lawson when his father’s
name was Peter Larsen?” “Is
Will Lawson his brother?”
A constant stream of people
climbed the stairway to inquire
where such and such a book of
Lawson’s was procurable or
where the words of such and
such a poem were obtainable. A
noisy drunk wanted to recite the
whole of “When Your Pants
Begin to Go.” An old-timer
from Gulgong, who could \have
been the original “old mate of
your father’s,” called; and so
did two ancient ladies who might
have “waited on the wharf in
black.”
All manner of people dropped
in: Billy Holman, one-time
Labor leader and N.S.W. State
Premier, a friend of Henry, like
Sam Rosa, from the time of the
old Australian Socialist League.
Jack Gant, the host of the
Brooklyn Hotel; Jack reminded
us that when Holman was
Premier of N. S. Wales, a
deputation of Sydney writers,
headed by Bertram Stevens, the
“gentle anthologist,” went to him
and requested a Government
position for Henry somewhere in
the bush.
Holman arranged for Henry’s
settlement on a farm at Leeton
in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, and for the payment of a
salary, on the condition that
Henry. wrote articles or verses
about the irrigation scheme, or
else that he mentioned it when-
ever possible in his writings.
Henry spent some time at Leeton
and wrote a number of articles,
Stories and verses while there.
He intended to publish a selec-
tion of them under the title of By
the Banks of the Murrumbidgee,
which was the title of a Bulletin
poem published in 1916, but he
never got round to gathering
them together.
Writing of Leeton, Henry said
in a letter: “It is a prohibition
area, and tfye driest and thirstiest
I have ever struck, in spite of the
abundant water : supply; and
they rub it into us with picture-
shows with screens showing the
curse of Derrink.”
Other callers on that Monday:
Molly, the barmaid from the
Star Hotel; the Irish sergeant
from the George-street North
police-station ; the old gardener
from the Thomas Walker Con-
valescent Hospital, where Henry
was once a patient; Joe
Seymour, from the dry-cleaning
establishment opposite; Jim
Tyrrell, the bookseller; J. G.
Lockley, the librarian ; “Snowy”
Jones, the obliging barrowman
at the corner of George-street
and Bridge-street.
Indeed, all Sydney seemed to
have known Henry, not only his
fellow-writers and artists, the
people at Angus and Robertson
and the “Worker” office, and
The Bulletin machinists, but
the Salvation Army lass who
remembered “When the Army
Prays for Watty,” and ferryboat
skippers, larrikins from The
Rocks, and Tom Hyland, from
Redfern, one of the last of the
city’s cabmen, and a bit of a poet
himself in the “Bellerive”
fashion.
During the afternoon Rod
Quinn called in and told of a
little trip Henry had intended
taking with him. They were to
saunter from Manly to Hughie
Maclean’s camp at Griffith Park,
where Henry proposed staying
with Hughie for a few weeks.
Henry had hoped that the
holiday would give him needed
rest and improve his health.
Death, however, suddenly over-
took him in his Abbotsford
cottage before he could enjoy the
calm and sunshine of Dee Why
and see again the big seas tumbl-
ing on Long Reef, the swans
coming home to rest on the blue
lagoon, and the ground-larks
running in the quiet sand-dunes.
Yes, there were many visitors
to 214 George-street that after-
noon: Steve O’Brien, who gave
Henry the idea for the poem
“Who’ll Wear the Beaten
Colors,” published in The
Bulletin in 1907; little Jack
Moses, the wine-salesman, of
“Nine Miles from Gundagai”
fame; Con Drew, who wrote
Jinker, the Grafter’s Mate and
The Doings of Dave; and
Father Michael Tansey, who
always fourid the humor of four
lines by Henry irresistible:
Three men met in the corner of a
street,
As three men often do;
One was a priest, the other a priest,
And the third had no money, too.
Fred Broomfield, of the boom-
ing voice—Archibald’s “man
with a book” —wandered in and
recalled doings of the Brother-
hood of the Dawn and Dusk, of
which Sydney Bohemian group
Henry was once a member, and
for whom he coined the motto,
“Roost high and crow low!”
Henry, who in all the bulk of
his writings made surprisingly
few references to his literary
(Continued on page 30)


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
KHP mom SAFE!
SANDERS
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
■'Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period.
Price* and
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd,
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
MELBOURNE , . Normon Bro*. PtJ. LtA
ADELAIDE . . • Vordon Price Ltd.
PERTH t j Deoket Book Co. (AoiL)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONs
MIDDLE EAST POLICY
ESTIMATES naturally vary as
to what extent Communist
influence in the Middle East
prompted or precipitated Egypt’s
“nationalisation” of the Suez
Canal. It would seem fairly
plain, however, from a survey
of Middle East problems by
Charles Malik in the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs,”
that Communist penetration of
the area in the last year or so
has been particularly active.
Professor of Philosophy at
the American University of
Beirut, Minister and later
Ambassador from Lebanon fo
the United States in 1945-55,
former head of the Lebanese
Delegation to the U.N., and
former chairman of the U.N.
Commission on Human Rights,
Malik comments that “Moscow
probably has never in history
had the direct or indirect influ-
ence it now enjoys in the Near
East”:
“Communist parties and front-
organisations are very import-
ant, but they are not the only
avenues of influence. The
manipulation of real or imagined
grievances, of national needs, of
deep-seated anti-Westernism, of
religious fanaticism and of local
rivalries offers great opportuni-
ties to intriguers. When the
game is open it is much better
to achieve your ends through
those who are not identified with
you or even those who persecute
you. Also, Communism thrives
best under persecution, and
therefore at times it deliberately
invites it. Thus the fact that
here or there the Communist
party is banned and Communists
are put in prison proves little
as to the degree of influence that
Moscow actually wields.
“The consummation of this
penetration has occurred during
the last 12 months, but the
studied preparation for it has
been going on for perhaps 30
years. Agents have been trained,
or primed, or enlisted and placed
in key positions—in trade-
unions, in the press, in govern-
ment, in the community at large
and perhaps even in Western
capitals. Not a single word of
criticism of the Communist
world is allowed to find its way
into the Government-controlled
press of some important Near
Eastern countries, whereas
defiant and exultant abuse of
the West is the daily menu of
the reader.
“The increase in recent years
in the reading of Communist
literature throughout the area
has been phenomenal both ip
itself and relatively to the
increase in reading of non-
Communist French, English,
American and other literature.
Many Communist classics are
now available in Arabic, and
the quantity and variety of
Communist literature on display
in Communist bookstores is
simply amazing. A book critical
of Communism will hardly find
a publisher, and if published
will hardly find a reader. In
some countries certain sections
of the press are liberally subsi-
dised by' international Com-
munism.
“It is sometimes very difficult
to tell whether a man is a Com-
munist or a nationalist: both
men use exactly the same
language and resort to exactly
the same tactics. In some
countries the general direction
of policy is dominated by the
Communists, and even the Army
falls under their influence. There
is a persistent wooing of Gov-
ernments and public opinion by
Communist trade-missions, and
the trade-agreements signed with
Communist countries have
increased the volume of trade to
an unprecedented degree.
“Communist industrial ex-
hibits, invitations to visit Com-
munist countries, Communist
musical- and dancing-troupes
and other Communist cultural
incursions have considerably
multiplied in recent months. The
clergy and laity of the Greek
Orthodox Church have been the
particular target of Communist
cultivation: a Greek Orthodox
bishop is going to preside over
the World Conference of the
Partisans of Peace meeting in
Peking.
“Three or four years ago you
could criticise Communism in
public ; now the atmosphere has
become distinctly uncongenial to
that. Even one year ago to be
‘pro-Western,’ whatever the
phrase may mean, was not a
source of embarrassment or
shame ; today it is. Even in the
strictly private circles of very
intimate friends —friends who
themselves are Western-
educated, who directly or in-
directly owe everything to the
West, and who one or two years
ago would have felt a distinct
source of pride and honor to be
identified with the West —people
are consciously restrained either
in saying critical things about
Communism or nice things about
the West.
“All of this constitutes a grand
Western debacle. The point is
that it is all new. This Com-
munist pepetration is the most
important phenomenon in the
Near East at present, more
important, in my opinion, than
the Arab-Israel conflict, and the
interpretation or adjustment of
every other situation, including
the Arab-Israeli problem, should
be made with this matter in
view.
“Among its general causes are
the following:
“The superb performance of
the Communist party, both inter-
national and local.
“The moral rehabilitation that
Communism has achieved since
the Geneva Conference of last
year and as a result of the policy
of coexistence and of the
exchange of visits between the
Communist and the non-Com-
munist worlds.
“Communist success in the
Bandoeng Conference and the
sedulous exploitation by the
Communists of this success.
“The absence of a profound
Western ideology adequate to
refute and replace Communism
in the mind and heart of the
Near East.
“Among the special causes
operative in the Near East are
the following:
“Arab disaffection on account
of Israel.
“Siding by the Communists
with the Arabs at the United
Nations, through declarations
made by Communist leaders and
through agents in the Arab
world, in matters related to
Palestine and to North Africa,
while the West seemed opposed
to the Arabs.
“The Arab refugee-camps
serving as hotbeds of Com-
munism.
‘The recent dominating
presence of the West in the
Near East and the appearance
of Communism by contrast as
a liberator from that domina-
tion.
“The identification in some
instances of the West with
crumbling and despotic
economic, social and political
systems.
“The growth of social
consciousness among the peoples
of the Near East with nothing
like an adequate programme of
reform correspondingly intro-
duced to remedy the unjust and
inhuman social and economic
conditions that have prevailed
since the beginning of time.
“Lack of harmony among the
Western Powers with regard to
their policy in the Near East.
“The political and military
rapprochement between some
Arab countries and the Com-
munist Powers.
“The fact that weak, or
degenerate, or softened-up, or
London “Daily Mirror”
“BETRAY’DIAM: O THIS FALSE SOUL OF EGYPT.”
“Antony and Cleopatra,” Act IV, Scene X.
pro - Communist Governments
developed in some lands while
such development was not an
historical necessity but took
place almost by default.
“The absence of a sufficiently
bold imaginative action on the
part of the West and of respon-
sible leaders and institutions in
the area with respect to books,
magazines, pamphlets, news-
papers and the realm of ideas
in general.
“The age-old spiritual plight
of Greek Orthodoxy in the Near
East, especially in its separation
from Western Christianity.
“The fact that certain elements
in Islam admit of an interpreta-
tion that accords with Com-
munism.
“It is much harder now to
meet this situation than it was
two years ago or even one year
ago. The ambiguities have multi-
plied frightfully. The listing of
the causes at work itself suggests
a programme of action. In par-
ticular, the West must soon de-
velop an objectively just policy
with respect to Palestine. So
long as the injustice done the
Arabs in Palestine continues,
and so long as the Arabs feel
that the West was responsible
for this matter, they will con-
tinue turning to Communism
for succor.
“It is doubtful whether any
policy of appeasement can in
the long run succeed. Let the
West, then, after making sure
of an absolutely fair policy in
Palestine, frankly, firmly and
boldly make the friendship or
at least the real neutrality of the
Near Eastern countries (e.g., in
the Government - controlled
press, in Government declara-
tions, in positive policy-
decisions) a condition for the
friendship of the West towards
them. This is a perfectly honor-
able position.”
Malik would have plenty of
support among the British press
for the foregoing comments, but
there are some who would not
go all the way with him on some
of his recommendations.
A few years ago, when Britain
was quitting Israel, one of the
then-few British papers which
opposed extended conciliation of
the Arab States ventured to
remark that the time might come
when Israel would be Britain s
only ally in the Middle East. In
the light of current events the
prophecy now seems less of a
long-shot than it did then.
London “Spectator,” for
instance, advocating as a matter
of urgency a reorientation of
Britain’s long-term policy in the
Middle East, comments that
“those who claimed that Egypt
and other Arab States were in the
grip of a paranoid nationalism
which made reliance on them
impossible have been proved
right time and time again”:
“The most monstrous stupidity
and bad faith have been and
are being displayed by those who
would prefer any solution in the
Levant rather than the natural
association between the West and
the West’s one sure ally. To
say, as ‘The Times’ said, that,
before taking action, Britain and
her partners would have to
‘gauge... .whether Israel
would take advantage of even
the briefest of trouble’ is an
example of wild misjudgment of
the situation. It is to talk as
though we were the arbiters of
the Middle Eastern scene,
whereas we are, in fact, in
desperate need of sure allies.
“Would Colonel Nasser have
done what he has done if there
were British bases in Israel and
two British divisions in the
Negev? Would he have done
what he has done if a firm stand
had been taken earlier over his
blockade of Israeli shipping
through the canal? There is a
good deal of poetic justice in
what has happened, but that does
not make the fact that our Arab-
fanciers have botched it once
more any the less bitter.
“The case for giving Israel
the arms and the support she
wants is now, if possible, more
conclusive than ever. Colonel
Nasser has broken pledge after
pledge, but his determination to
attack Israel is certainly
unaltered. He is, after all, in the
position of a man riding a tiger
and, rather than be eaten himself,
will turn it loose on his neighbor.
Britain may fear for the Trucial
sheikdoms and her oil-interests,
but it seems fairly clear that
Israel is next on the list of pan-
Arab expansionists. Britain
should therefore supply her with
the arms she needs to defend
herself and conclude an alliance,
if necessary providing for the
maintenance of a British base
on Israeli territory.”
Commenting along similar
lines, John Connell, in London
“Time and Tide,” describes
Britain’s Arab policy as a
“delusion fostered by more than
one generation of Middle East
experts and their disciples that
there is some form of mental
and spiritual kinship between
the British and the Arabs
(among whom it has been
customary, though fallacious, to
include the Egyptians), and that
there is also a great overriding
identity of interest”:
“It has been a protracted,
futile, wasteful and humiliating
love-affair, which has survived
many disillusionments, many
jolts, a deal of spite and a great
deal of treachery.
“The importance and the
tenacity of the myth may be
gauged by the harm which it has
wrought. It brought about the
dishonor of the final retreat
from Palestine in 1948; four
years later, at the time of the
Black Saturday riots in Cairo,
it was exerted to prevent
General Erskine from swift
reoccupation of metropolitan
Egypt; it led to the shameful
sacking of one of its chief
propagators, the hapless Glubb
Pasha; it sustained a constant
surly disregard of obvious
obligations—even of ordinary
courtesy—towards Israel; it
animated Mr. Anthony Nutting’s
pitiful, shattered, ‘diplomatic
triumph’ of the Anglo-Egyptian
Agreement on the Canal Zone ;
it inspired the worst absurdities
of the Baghdad Pact (and look
at Irak’s behavior over the
canal); and it led, directly and
inevitably, by successive acts of
appeasement, to Colonel Nasser’s
coup.
“The roots of the myth were
emotional. There can be no
beginnings of comprehension of
the whole catastrophe without
recognition of this basic fact.
Often it expressed itself in
strategic or economic terms;
but these have always been
merely the external defence-
mechanism to protect the move-
ments of the heart. Even in the
anguish of the end there is the
utter irrationality of baffled
love.”
Also supporting the “Spec-
tator’s” advocacy of strengthen-
ing Israel —and Britain’s ties
with it Stephen King-Hall
notes in a letter to “Manchester
Guardian” that “the West in
general and Great Britain in
particular have a trump card up
our sleeve —the existence of
Israel, the only democratic State
in the Middle East”:
“We [Britain] should instantly
underpin the Tripartite Agree-
ment by concluding a compre-
hensive mutual-defence treaty
for 25 years with Israel. A
treaty giving us the right to use
Haifa as a base and to station
divisions (two should be with-
drawn from Germany) in Israel.
“We should then say to
Nasser: ‘Provided you operate
the canal according to the Con-
vention of 1888 all we need
discuss is compensation to share-
holders. If you play monkey-
tricks with the canal for politi-
cal reasons an Anglo-Israel force
will descend upon you at very
short notice and Alexandria may
be visited by troops from
Libya.’
“I suggest that about the same
time Nasser would be hearing
from Arab League members
messages as follows: ‘By Allah!
your impetuous move has dealt a
fatal blow at the roots of our
policy and your own claim to
lead the Arab world. We are
held together by the general
agreement that Israel must be
exterminated. Now, thanks to
you, Israel has become synony-
mous with Great Britain and we
Syrians, Jordanians and Saudi


Divorce Notices
TO EDWARD JAMES KINO formerly of
Victoria Park Western Australia Address
now unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife MARGARET MERCY KINO has com-
menced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of Separation for
a continuous period of 5 years immedi-
ately preceding the commencement of the
action and there is no reasonable likeli-
hood of cohabitation being resumed. IF
you desire to defend such proceedings you
must file your defence in the Central
Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
within FORTY clear days from the date
of this publication In default of your so
doing the cause may proceed and the
Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence.
DATED this 14th day of August, 1956.
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN & FERRIER, Padbury
ings, Forrest Place, Perth, Western Aus-
tralia, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ZOLTON MAKRAY late of Ashfield
and Drummoyne. —TAKE NOTICE that
ICATHARINA MAKRAY has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1581 of 1056 on the
ground of desertion without Just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
7th day of November 1956 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE, GILLIES & CO., Soli-
citors, 18/20 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Prefer to save money by
mixing your own drench?
For maximum efficiency insist on
SICKLE
BRAND
UM
99 per cent, of particles guaranteed smaller
than 25 microns-—the C.5.1.R.0.
standard for best results!
• Microfine particles ensure maximum , control of
worms in sheep and other domestic animals.
• Mixes easily.
• Non - poisonous sheep
need not be starved before
drenching.
• Prevents pasture re-snfes-
tation.
t
© Packed in cartons contain-
ing 2 x 11 fib. bags
sufficient for 520 grown
sheep.
nil
*/'//;/
lei f I * 'l ‘ » 4
*»//*/ ! | B—
fe/7 te
Ask (or the
FREE
DRENCH
CHART
fr'om your
local supplier.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
COMMONWEALTH FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS LTD.
Reg. Office: 65 William Street, Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box 390 D.
Arabians are faced with the
existence of a well-based Anglo-
Israel force capable of instant
action should we feel disposed
to use oil for political purposes.’
“There is nothing in these
proposals contrary to our exist-
ing obligation as to which India
or the United States could
object. We shall only be putting
teeth into the Tripartite Agree-
London “New Statesman”
“AND THEY ARE ASKING WHETHERI
SHALL SURVIVE!”
ment and moving the teeth close
enough to Egypt to bite if the
need and justification arose.”
Burma and China
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on the sally by Chinese
Communist troops into southern
Burma—“the latest manifesta-
tion of Chinese pressure to the
south, which has been increasing
ever since Peking’s designs on
Formosa came to nothing”:
“In one respect the Red
Chinese may have made a costly
mistake. Even if their troops
turn around and withdraw peace-
ably, they will be hard put to
explain to Asian opinion why
they deliberately violated their
neighbor’s territory.
“Respect for territorial
integrity is supposed to be a
cardinal principle of Mao Tse-
tung’s ‘coexistence’ policy, a
policy he has proclaimed far and
wide. The incursion into Burma
should convince the Burmese
once and for all of the dangers
of putting any faith in him.
‘lt should also mobilise resent-
ment in non-Communist Asia.
This is a point Western
diplomacy must emphasise.”
U.S. Prisoners in China
The, Geneva negotiations
between representatives of the
U.S. and Communist China have
now been going on for over a
year; and while some prisoners
have been released others are
still there, held, as “New York
Times” puts it, “in complete
violation of all law and human
decency for as much as five
years.”
As against this, the paper
notes, the U.S. has put nothing
in the way of the return of any
Chinese from America to the
Chinese mainland and “has put
international machinery at the
disposal of the Communists to
assure that any possible claim
could be heard. And some
Chinese have gone back.”
“After a year of this,” the
“N. Y. Times” concludes, “it
should be plain to anyone that
the Chinese Communists went to
Geneva in bad faith and that
their position has not been
improved by .their tactics. They
have been ‘negotiating’ for a
year on the terms upon which
they would agree to stop doing
something that they had no
business doing in the first place.
“It was not long after the
Chinese Reds got to Geneva that
they made it plain that prisoner-
release was not their real concern.
What they wanted was a ‘top-
level’ conference with the United
States, specifically between Secre-
tary Dulles and Premier Chou
En-lai. The ‘Ambassadorial
level’ wasn’t good enough for
them. So the Americans rotting
in the Chinese prisons were to
be the pawns in a tidy bit of
international blackmail.
“What the Chinese Reds
wanted was a quasi-recognition
and the chance to tell the world
that the United States had dis-
patched its highest diplomatic
officer to talk with Chou En-lai.
The trick didn’t work.
“Thus we [the U.S.] have been
obliged to pit our patience
against Red Chinese obduracy.
We have not broken off the talks.
But by this time our very
patience should have made plain
how difficult is our position and
how cruel and mendacious is the
Red Chinese protestation of any
desire to ‘relieve tensions.’ ”
"Honest John"
The affectionate sobriquet
which trench-mortar sections
earned in two world-wars —
from their custom of arriving,
letting fly and departing with all
possible dispatch, What time the
remaining riflemen oopped the
enemy’s indignant retaliation —
looks as though it might be
passed on to the U.S. units now
ini training with “Honest John,”
the atomic-missile launcher
which, as “U.S. News and
World Report” describes it,
“can hurl atomic explosives at
enemy attacking-forces with
great accuracy, day or night, in
any kind of weather.”
Honest John units, the paper
adds, “are to be highly mobile,
so that they can move into
firing-position under cover of
darkness, hurl their atomic
missiles at enemy troop-concen-
trations or other targets, then
withdraw quickly from the area
to avoid retaliation-fire. The
hope is that, when a unit is fully
trained, it will be able to move
within 10 minutes after launch-
ing its atomic missiles.”
From which it would seem
that, in one respect at least, the
mortar and Honest John have
almost as much in common as
the Colonel’s lady and Judy
O’Grady—except, perhaps, that
the mortar boys needed con-
siderably less than 10 minutes
to. be on their way.
Similarities would seem to
end there, however. The Honest
John units referred to comprise
“a small contingent of Ameri-
can soldiers in Northern Italy
who are engaged in an experi-
ment that may revolutionise
present concepts of ground-
warfare” :
“The experiment is with a
special fighting-force, built
around the 6000 American
soldiers who comprise America’s
Southern European Task Force,
known as Setaf. The unit is
especially designed to provide
the support of atomic artillery
and guided-missiles for the
Italian infantry-divisions which
guard the northern frontier of
Italy. The unit’s weapons,
organisation and tactics are all
without precedent in conven-
tional armies.
“An entirely new organisation
is being used. Instead of
batteries, battalions and regi-
ments, the task-force is com-
posed of ‘task-groups’ and a
‘support-group.’ Each task-
group is built around atomic-
missile launchers, and includes
mechanised infantry-units for
defence of the new deadly
weapons.
“Special vehicles, designed to
protect troops against atomic
fall-out, are being developed in
the U.S., and are to get their
first field-test with the new unit.
Planes and helicopters will be
an integral part of the task-
force. They will be used to seek-
out atomic targets and to deliver
atomic warheads to the missile-
crews.
“Unlike conventional Army
units, the task-groups also are
being set-up to operate for rela-
tively long periods on a com-
pletely independent basis. In an
atomic war the expectation is
that they may be cut off from
contact with their main com-
mand and supply-headquarters.
They must be self-contained to
a large degree.
“The commanding officer,
Brigadier - General John H.
Michaelis, says that the com-
mand relationship, too, is vastly
different from the orthodox one.
“ ‘ln the past,’ he explains,
‘the idea was for a superior
officer to say to his subordinates,
“You do this and don’t ask
questions.” But in the type of
organisation we are building
here my task-group commanders
must often do what they con-
sider right—and then either they
will be dead I will confirm
later.’ ”
Summing-up the hopes for the
experiment, “U.S. News and
World Report” concludes that
“to guard the mountain-
approaches to Northern Italy
without this 6000-man unit the
Italians would need 10 to 15
divisions of conventional forces.
“With the support of the U.S.
atomic task-force, however, the
defence of Italy against overland
invasion with only 3i Italian
infantry-divisions deployed in
this area is considered feasible.
“The same principle of sup-
porting local ground-forces with
tactical atomic units of the U.S.
Army can be applied to other
parts of Western Europe as well,
in the opinion of the Army’s
strategic Experts. If the experi-
ment [in Italy] proves successful
the Southern European Task
Force is to serve as a prototype
for a series of similar units in
the American Army. These units
would provide ground-support
for U.S. allies across Europe
and perhaps later in Asia.
“In that event some military
officers say the U.S. may be able
to reduce its present Army com-
mitment in Europe from 250,000
men —in 5i divisions and sizeable
support organisations—to less
than 50,000 men.”
Room for the R.N.?
Suggesting new homes for
ships of the R.N., J. S.
MacCarthy notes in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph” that
“from reports of the decision to
transfer the naval base at Trin-
comalee to the Ceylon Govern-
ment, it might seem as if we
[Britain] were vacating a bare,
inconvenient and unimportant
anchorage. Nothing could be
less true”:
“The natural harbor is one of
the finest in the world ; the dock-
yard-facilities are good ; there is
well-equipped accommodation
for large numbers of men, a
naval hospital, even married-
quarters (a rare provision in a
naval establishment!).
“Since 1945 the Royal Navy
has withdrawn its connections
from the West Indies, South
Africa, Egypt, India and now
Ceylon. The home ports are
cluttered with mothballed
reserve-fleet vessels, all highly
vulnerable to sudden nuclear
attack. The number of com-
missioned seagoing ships is at a
low ebb, and the recent cut in
defence-costs reduces naval
appropriation by a further £ll
million.
“In short, the Trincomalee
decision is only the latest indica-
tion that a completely new
approach is needed if the Navy
is to be of any future value.
Arrangements should be made to
transfer the bulk of the laid-up
reserve fleet to the Canadian,
Australian and New Zealand
navies, complete, if necessary,
with naval care- and mainten-
ance-parties and even dockyard
personnel and equipment.”
Various Voices
Oliver Poole, C.B.E. (chair-
man of Britain’s Conservative-
party organisation): “You don’t
make the poor rich by making
the rich poor. Freedom would
inevitably be the first casualty
of this policy of equality. Men
are not born equal in body, mind
or spirit. To make, and still
more to keep, them equal would
call for constant interference
from the State.”
Professor R. W. Ditchburn (of
Reading University): “The day
has .gone when scientists can
restrain the development of
weapons or conceal them, or go
on strike against Governments
which want to use them. Nor is
it possible for scientists to act as
Foreign Ministers. But if there
is sufficient will to achieve peace,
then I think science could very
soon create a network which
would be so interwoven and so
strong as to make it very difficult
to break-up the system of world
co-operation world peace.”


Missing Friend
WOULD relatives, or any person know-
ing the whereabouts of relatives of the
late JAMES CUMMINGS, who immi-
grated to New Zealand from Australia
approximately 20 years ago, please com-
municate with the District Manager,
PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua, New
Zealand ?
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A "must” for all
housewives—if you want
to keep them up to the
mark—are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MMROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
associates, wrote of Fred Broom-
field in his poem, “Dind’s
Hotel”:
I sat alone till half-past-eight—alone
with thirst and sin—
When one who’d blown across the
strait —' Fred Broomfield
thundered in.
Vice-editing The Bulletin, Fred
thought my verse “not bad”;
He “chanced” my first and so became
my literary dad.
Quiet, retiring Ted Sorenson —
“Sandy” Sorenson, as he was
known to his fellow-writers —
also came in; as did Dave
Richards (“Homfrey Beale”),
another Bulletin contributor,
who wrote about the outback.
David McKee Wright remem-
bered that, 12 years before —in
1910—after the death of his
friend Herbert Low, Henry
wrote a “Red Page” article called
“Bohemia Buries Her Dead”:
We are glowing too old and too
few now (and our lives have not been
too angelic) not to pay a little respect
to our dead. There’s one of us left
to round up the old writers for the
funeral; one to go out and comfort
the bereaved ones —and he is born to
it; one to fix up any hitch that might
occur when the papers have to be
signed; one to get pars, in, and he
does it somehow, in unlikely papers,
when none of the others would think
of it, or do it in time; one to
philosophise cheerfully on the way
back; and always one with a few
bob to stand drinks all round, hats
off, empty glass on the bar to the
memory of the dead, at the first hotel
in the city, when all is said and
done , ,
We are going to Waverley and
Rookwood overmuch of late, and
coming back one short. It will be a
rather dull time for the last one on the
return journey; but after that it
won’t matter.
They buried Henry on the
Tuesday; but Bohemia had
little or no part in the proceed-
ings. Henry was given a State
funeral, with all its pomp and
trimmings and the attendance ot
all the notabilities of the land,
men whom he never knew and
who never knew him.
Still, as Fred Broomfield
remarked at the Brooklyn Hotel
after the funeral, Henry’s wish,
expressed in the poem The
Jolly Dead March,” was granted
in full;
But I hope that my country will
shout me '
The price of a decent brass band.
Stayers
By J. FRASER
THE agricultural adviser
turned his car on to the
track that disappeared
into the stony scrub.
After a couple of miles the scrub
ended and the track ran on
through a basin cleared among
the rocky ridges.
There were only two farms in
the basin. The adviser could see
their houses and sheds clustered
hospitably together in the
distance.
Then his attention was drawn
back to the narrow road. It
was blocked by a battered utility.
The agricultural adviser pulled
his car up on the side of the
road.
“Come to do some honest
work?” drawled a voice from
some gorse-bushes to his right.
He turned his head to see a
farmer drooped over a derelict
fence with a pair of pliers in his
hand. A laugh revealed the
farmer’s son, also hidden by the
gorse. He was a solid youth
who usually wore with non-
chalant assurance a sleeveless
football-guernsey, but now he
was standing rather self-con-
sciously in a new navy-blue suit.
The adviser was astonished
by this uneasiness. Tom’s usual
manner suggested that his self-
confidence was impregnable.
Even insurance-salesmen became
tongue-tied beneath his tolerant
gaze. And now he was reduced
to human fallibility by the
strangeness of a new suit.
The adviser got out of his
car. “Good-morning, Tom;
hello, Mr. Smith. That fence
looks as if you’ve been darn-
ing it!”
“Yes,” answered Smith, “the
wire’s so rotten that it breaks
every time I try to tie it.” He
eyed his work dispassionately.
“It’ll do. It should give that
crawling devil of a cow some-
thing to think about! Can you
give me a lift to the house?
The boy wants the bus.”
“Certainly, Mr. Smith. When
you’re ready.”
' After Tom had driven past,
the adviser drove on up the
road. He disconsolately
watched Smith’s farm as it
passed by. He noted the sag-
ging fences, the gorse and the
bracken, the paddocks littered
with fallen tree-trunks, the weedy
pastures and the lean animals.
His evangelistic zeal once
more overcame the caution
bred from the derision to which
Smith had treated him in the
past half-a-dozen years.
“You should try this new
strain of rye-grass that the
department has developed, Mr.
Smith. I’ve seen magnificent
stands in country like this.”
Mr. Smith looked contempla-
tive. “I’ll admit my pastures
aren’t much. You probably
know more about it than I.
I’ve only been farming here
forty years.”
He glanced at the adviser, who
avoided his gaze. In his less-
experienced days he would have
accepted that gambit. “I
wouldn’t say that, Mr. Smith,”
he would have said. “Your
forty-years of experience have
given you a knowledge of local
conditions that no one would
question. I am merely here as a
sort of liaison-officer between
you and the research-worker.”
Then the gratified farmer would
have begun a boring, rambling
anecdote to prove that an ounce
of experience Was worth a ton
of theory.
OUT now the adviser kept
a discreet silence and
waited.
“Anyway, I’m carrying four
sheep to the acre, and as long
as I can do that, I’m not going
to touch any paddocks!” Smith
looked the adviser straight in the
eye.
“You old liar!” thought the
adviser; and disgustedly changed
the subject. “How is your hay-
paddock shaping?”
“Nothing to complain about,”
the farmer answered. Then he
added maliciously, “More hay
has come off that paddock than
any other paddock in the dis-
trict. It’s been cut ever since
sub.-clover came in. That’s
seventeen-years straight, and it’s
as good as ever. I’ll get two
tons off it this year.”
“You double-certificated old
liar,” thought the adviser.
“You’ll cut less than a ton of
Cape-weed and silver-grass.”
Weakly he started to reason.
“Trials that the department is
conducting show that rotational
mowing of paddocks”
“Starve the crows!” interrupted
Smith. “Keep off that subject.
That Brown that used to live
opposite almost drove me silly
talking about rotational mowing,
rotational grazing, rotational
calf-paddocks, rotational every-
thing. He used to sound like a
well-educated parrot.”
The adviser was annoyed.
“Mr. Brown made a big differ-
ence to his farm while he was
here.” He gestured across the
road to the neat fences and
the smooth, clean paddocks wait-
ing the mower.
Smith adroitly shifted his
ground. “I hear he’s doing
pretty well now. He bought a
flash house with the money he
got from Cowan. Now he’s
pushing a pen in a city office.
He works from eight- till five-
o’clock five days a week.”
“He didn’t want to live in the
city,” snapped the adviser. “His
wife was an invalid and she
couldn’t get proper treatment
in the country.”
They drove along in silence,
the adviser smouldering. He
sourly observed the shabby old
house as they approached it. It
was surrounded by a disorderly
rabble of rickety sheds and out-
houses. A wormwood hedge
and a sickly gum, the solitary
survivor of a forest, failed to
soften the starkness of the pic-
ture. A score of drooping fowls
lurking among the old tins and
bottles under the wormwood,
and the carcass of a sheep hang-
ing from the straggly gum, were
in keeping.
pULLING-UP at Smith’s
gate the adviser said, “Well,
I must keep going. I’ve got
some literature on irrigation for
Mr. Thompson. I suppose he’s
finished that big dam by now?”
“Yes,” said Smith in a tone
which suggested that he regarded
this • irrigation - nonsense with
philosophic detachment. “How
about a cup of tea before you
go?” Then to dispel any illu-
sion that the invitation implied
a liking for the adviser he added,
“The wife likes someone to talk
to.”
The adviser could see Mrs.
Smith’s anxious face looking out
from the kitchen-window. His
pity for her levered him out of
the car. He remembered her as
a pale, patient woman who had
passed her life waiting in vain—
for a new house, a new car or
even for a mere washing-
machine. Her daughters had
grown-up and married and had
gone to live in the city in new
houses. Occasionally they came
down in their polished cars to see
their parents.
When Mrs. Smith visited her
daughters she was awed by the
electrical gadgets, by the spark-
ling bathrooms and the vivid
gardens. She was always glad
to get back to her old wood
stove, but she sometimes cried
when she looked at the painted-
tin bathtub in the lean-to and
thought of all that lovely porce-
lain and those broad expanses
of gleaming tiles.
The adviser walked down the
garden-path through the aban-
doned beds and riotous weeds.
Then in the angle made by the
porch he was astonished to see
a young bottlebrush with the first
of its scarlet flowers fully open.
Its youthful vigor and beauty
seemed bizarre in such a garden.
“My word, Mrs. Smith, that’s
a beautiful young tree near the
door,” he said as he sat down
at the table.
She flushed with pleasure,
“Yes, it’s only three years old,
too. Mr. Cowan gave it to me
when he was planting.”
“That’s right f I remember he
planted callistemons in his
shelter-belts,” the adviser said.
He had helped plan those
shelter-belts and he felt a touch
of pride whenever he saw the
young trees.
Smith broke in, “Cowan is
doing pretty well, too. He’s in
charge of the tool-department in
his uncle’s store. He was down
last week to look at his trees.
He was driving a big new
American car. I hope young
Thompson liked it, seeing that
it was his money that bought
it.”
“I think Mr. Cowan was sen-
sible to sell,” Mrs. Smith said
defiantly. “It wasn’t fair on
young children when the school
closed. They had to go two
miles to catch the school bus
and then another fifteen miles to
get to school.”
“Sensible!” said Smith. “He
was lucky to find a sucker as silly
as himself to sell out to.”
The adviser tried to bring the
talk back to trees. “The Forestry
Department has several trial-
pots of hardy shrubs and trees
for country districts, Mrs. Smith.
The idea is to find plants that
can grow without all this water-
ing and pampering.”
But the sparkle had gone from
Mrs. Smith’s eye.
“They have some beautiful
native shrubs,” said the adviser
coaxingly.
“It’s no good trying to garden
without water,” she said flatly.
“I’ve only two rainwater-tanks
for everything. For years I’ve
tried to get Henry to put piping
from the dam to the garden.”
As Henry prepared to take his
place on a familiar battlefield,
the adviser excused himself.
Soon he was driving down the
lane that led to Thompson’s
house. His irritation was
soothed by the neatness and
obvious purposefulness of this
farm after Smith’s litter. He
smiled at the young trees in their
orderly rows in the windbreak.
He was delighted by the riotous
growth of clover and grass in a
paddock shut-up for hay.
TTE stopped his car in the
shade of the flourishing
young poplars which ran down
the side of the garden. He
could see Thompson’s wife in a
bright cotton frock weeding the
patch of lawn outside the back
door. She was gay and vital
after the submissive Mrs. Smith.
“Hello, Mr. Roberts,” she
called. “You’ll find Alec in the
implement-shed.”
He was tempted to stop and
talk, but ideas on irrigation
were working like yeast in his
mind. “Thanks. I’ll go and find
him.”
As he walked across to the
shed he could hear Thompson
bellowing a song. He’s just like
one of his Jersey bulls, thought
the adviser. Never in doubt,
never hesitant.
He walked around the corner
of the shed to find Thompson
patching a punctured car-tube.
“Hullo, Alec,” he said. “I’ve
got some dope that pretty well
fits your irrigation problem.”
Alec straightened up. “Hell,
I’m sorry. 1 could kick myself
to death for all the trouble I’ve
put you to. The fact is the
place is on the market. Helen’s
father had a stroke last week.
We had a family-conference and
Helen and I decided to go into
partnership with him to keep his
business going.”
He gave a roar of laughter.
“Can you see me all dressed up
in my Sunday-best, spruiking
about headers and balers? Come
up and I’ll give you a decent
trade-in on the old wreck you
drive.”
His glance fell on the bundle
of pamphlets and books in the
adviser’s hands. “I’m sorry I
dragged you into this.”
Like one of his bulls, Alec
didn’t believe in beating about
the bush.
“That’s all right, Alec ; who-
ever buys the place might be
able to use the information.”
Alec’s brow cleared. “You’re
right there. It’s a perfect set-up
for irrigation. Come and have
a look at the dam. You haven’t
seen it since it was finished.”
An hour later, the adviser was
driving away from Thompson’s
house. His thoughts were
unhappy. In six years he had
watched Brown, Cowan and
Thompson come and go. They
had all been intelligent, pro-
gressive farmers, now they had
left the land for ever. Only the
hay-paddocks, the trees and the
dam remained as monuments to
their transitory enthusiasm.
BY now he had reached the
road opposite Smith’s house.
On the road there was an
animated scene.
Mr. and Mrs. Smith stood
beside the utility. Sitting in it
next to Tom was a strapping
young woman with a bold, con-
fident face. She looked equal
to any situation, from beheading
the rooster for Sunday dinner
to helping the parson quell an
outbreak of vice in the senior
Bible-class.
Tom, on the other hand, still
appeared a little subdued.
Noting this, the adviser mentally
apologised for thinking that
such a trifle as a new suit could
have upset Tom’s serenity. He
saw Smith make a remark
accompanied by a refined leer
and sophisticated hitching of his
thumbs in his braces. Mrs.
Smith’s scandalised titter, Tom’s
uncertainty and the girl’s laugh
all indicated to the adviser that
he was witnessing a scene from
a tender romance that would
ensure a new generation of
Smiths to farm the place as
fecklessly as the last.
But they would at least be
farmers.
The adviser was certain that if
he came back in forty years’
time he would find an older
Tom muddling along on a farm
that looked much the same. That
is, if the girl with the bold face
didn’t take a hand and bulldoze
Tom into tidying the farm. The
adviser could imagine her con-
ducting the eradication of the
gorse and the bracken and the
removal of the fallen timber as
if it were spring-cleaning.
As he passed, he felt like
saluting the Smiths —old Smith
with forty years of haphazard
farming behind him and young
Smith with another forty years
of happy -go - lucky farming
ahead.
Instead, he smiled and waved
enthusiastically. The Smiths
turned to watch the car receding
down the road.
Mr. Smith, still excited by the
reception of his recent epigram,
was stimulated to further efforts.
“Now, what’s he been drink-
ing?” he asked.


Divorce Notice
IN THE - SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— IN Divorce.
Exercising Federal Jurisdiction in
Divorce.
TO ALASTAIR lAN MACINTOSH late of
17 Knoll Avenue Arncliffe. —TAKE
NOTICE that ROSE MACINTOSH has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1680 of
1956 (Federal Matrimonial Cause) on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upward and
is asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st
day of October 1966 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MAGNET & MAGNEY, Solicitors, 79
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
JOHNSTON, Stella, at one time residing
at 56 Church Street, Ryde. Will she,
or any person having information regard-
ing her, please contact the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
re Estate of THOMAS GATES.
MODERNISE YOUR SHEARING SHED
with
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL Woolpress
The Newest Woolpress for faster and easier pressing.
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australian
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day; two men,
65 to 70 or more.)
• Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
9 New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
• Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
9 New Two Speed Action on Roller Bearings for
Faster and Easier Pressing.
AND FOR ALL FENCING WORK
A
DO
DONALDS WIRESTRAINER
The quickest, lightest and most useful. Ordinary fence
can be stretched, cut and spliced in thirty seconds.
AJAX
THE FIRST CHOICE FOR YEARS OF MANY THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP FARMERS
© One box design.
© Double purchase.
© Positive release.
© Always square.
© Fast compression.
© Lightness,
© Spring steel pins.
© Compactness.
© All steel construction.
© Two-speed gearing.
© Demountable mechan-
ism.
O Rapid 4-point door
fastener.
0 Collapsible boxes.
• Strength and rigidity."
# Superior pack holders.
0 Trolley wheels incor-
porated.
AUTOCHAIN
f.LQJB
“AUTOCHAIN” WIRE STRAINER
Its automatic action and efficient grips put it in a
class by itself amongst chain strainers.
ASK YOUR WOOLHOUSE OR MACHINERY MERCHANT
" AGENTS IN ALL STATES
and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N S.W.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Far North Memories, by
Jessie Litchfield, and Pageant, by
G. B. Lancaster.—63 Bl.
To buy Amathea (American
edition), Kilgour's Mare, by Henry
G. Lamond, and A Book for Kidz
(republished as Roundabout), by C. J.
Dennis.—63B2.
To buy the following books:
Narrative of the overland expedition:
Rockhampton to Cape York, compiled
by A. W. Jardine from the journal of
the Jardine brothers and edited by
F. B. Byerley (Brisbane, 1867);
Henry Kendall’s Poems and Songs
(Sydney, 1862) and Poems, edited by
A. Sutherland, with a preface-
memoir (Melbourne, 1890; revised
edition, 1903); Blacks and Bush-
rangers, by E. B. Kennedy (1899);
Kinghorn’s Snakes of Australia; The
Murray River, by A. Kinlock
(Adelaide, 1853). —6383.
To buy or borrow copy of a book,
probably Pioneers, 1837-1860, by
Major-General Kenneth McKay, deal-
ing with the Galong-Boorowa district
(or possibly a larger area) of N.S.W.
—6384.
Information Sought
The old Bulletin recipe for dog-
biscuits ?
Take 81b. of finely-ground wheat
and a sheep’s pluck (heart, liver and
lungs). Boil the pluck, retaining the
liquid for mixing with the wheat.
Mince the boiled meat, add wheat and
mix well. Pour-in warm liquid; add
1 tablespoon of salt; knead into a
firm dough. Roll flat, about
thick, and cut into squares. Bake
till hard.
* * * *
Some particulars about cricketer
Cyril Washbrook’s career?
Born Dec. 6, 1914, he first played
for Lancashire in 1933, making 40
not-out in his first match and 152
in his second. (In 1954 he became
Lancashire’s captain.) He played his
first Test against N.Z. in 1937, but
was passed over for the 1938 Tests
against Australia. After the war
he became a fixture in English Test-
teams, coming to Australia and N.Z.
with the 1946-47 and 1950-51 M.C.C.
teams, and visiting South Africa in
1948-49. Before his recall for the
third Test this year he had played in
34 Tests, of which 14 were against
Australia. Before this year’s Test-
series he had made 2465 runs in Tests,
and had hit six Test-centuries, two
against Australia (112 in the third
1946-47 Test, 143 in the fourth 1948
Test). Until it was broken by
Indians V. Mankad and P. Roy in the
fifth Test against N.Z. in January this
year with a stand of 413, Washbrook
and Hutton had held the Test-record
first-wicket partnership (359 v. South
Africa, 1948-49). The second 1948
Australia-v .-Lancashire game was
Washbrook’s “benefit,” which netted
him £14,000, the record sum raised in
a testimonial.
* * * *
Information on (he “model” dairy
at Menangle (N S.W.)?
Owned by Camden Park Estate Pty.,
Ltd., the Rotolactor, as it is called,
was designed and manufactured in
Australia; it began operating in
September, 1952. (There is only one
other Rotolactor of similar size in the
world, in New Jersey, U.S.A.) The
platform of the Rotolactor, all-steel-
welded, is 60ft. in diameter, mounted
on 20 steel wheels, four of which are
drivers. It revolves on two circular
301 b. steel rails resting on concrete
walls 6ft. above the basement-floor.
Four 2-h.p. motors are mounted
underneath the platform, though only
1 h.p. is required to drive it. There
are 50 automatically-operated bails on
the platform, and 300 cows are milked
per hour by 10 operators; it is
designed to milk 2500 cows twice
daily. The platform revolves com-
pletely every lOmin. The cows enter
the Rotolactor up an inclined ramp
from adjacent holding-yards, and
after one complete revolution the
milking is completed, and the cow
returns to the holding-yards by
another ramp, under the platform.
The milk is taken from the cow,
passed through stainless-steel pipes,
collected in vacuum-sealed containers
located in various places on the plat-
form, which automatically empty into
a dump-vat in the floor of the Roto-
lactor. It is then pumped direct to
the depot, and within 90sec. is
chilled and ready for dispatch. No
charge is made for inspection, but
donations made are used to support
various charities.
Brief Answer*
Fred M.M. (U.S.A.): Yes,* “The
Wizard of Oz,” of several versions,
was a popular song of Australian
troops in the last war Old Timer:
Thanks for writing, but don’t you
think your explanation of the origin
of Camooweal is a wee bit far-
fetched? S.G.R.: Arthur Yates
and Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney, can supply
a tree-lucerne, tagosaste, which has a
white flower. When planting, sow
seed where the plants are to grow,
as they don’t transplant very success-
fully 1.K.: Write Registrar-
General, General Register Office,
Somerset House, London G.P.:
Nothing to stop the Commonwealth
Government carrying out the action
you suggest D.C.E.: The Mair
(U.A.P.) Government introduced the
coalmines-pension legislation in
N.S.W., in 1941.... J.K.: (1) Yes, the
Victorian Government has declared
the opening-day of the Olympic
Games (November 22) a public holi-
day in Victoria. (2) Write The
Organising Committee, Post Office
Building, Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
L.D.: (1) Preference shares are
shares on which a dividend must be
paid before the ordinary shares are
satisfied. Prefs. receive a fixed
dividend-rate, while the ords.’ rates
may rise above that level. (2) The
issue of registered unsecured notes
is one method by which a company
can borrow money. (3) Consult any
registered stockbroker W.M.: Age
provisions bf the Income Tax and
Social Services Contribution Act apply
to all persons qualified by age, pro-
vided their income is within the limits
laid down. The source of income does
not preclude persons otherwise
qualified from receiving these bene-
fits H.J.P.: Refunds of United
Kingdom income-tax in respect <?f
U.K. dividends should be included in
the assessable income. If the U.K.
dividends are assessed in this country
on the net amount received (that is,
after deduction of U.K. tax), Section
26a of the Income Tax and Social
Services Contribution Assessment Act
provides that the amount of refund
is assessable in the year of receipt.
If, however, the taxpayer has elected
to “gross-up” the U.K. dividends,
under Section 12 (3) of the Income
Tax (International Agreements) Act
the refund should be included in the
year of income in which the dividend
was paid... .F.H.8.: (1) The
Hamiltons are a clan. (2) For its
tartan see The Clans and Tartans of
Scotland, by Robert Bain, Glasgow
city-librarian (published 1938)....
J.F.: It is a word which has been
bandied to such an extent that its
meaning has become obscure and it
has lost its original significance. It
has meant, at various stages of use:
shield-bearer (or attendant on a king,
nobleman or knight); a title of honor
implying a rank between knight and
valet; then anyone who had a legal
right to call himself a gentleman (i.e.,
one who bears a coat-of-arms); and
now as a mere courtesy (especially in
correspondence), probably more in
England than here—though it is used
here in correspondence quite
indiscriminately Inquirer (Bur-
leigh) : Sky’s the limit. The husband
will be taxed on his income; what he
gives to his wife has more to do with
the size of her thumb than with the
Taxation Commissioner M.G.L.:
Thanks for the tip P. 8.5.: Writers’
Marketing Guide is compiled by G. R.
Pittaway and Ray Davie and published
by Australian Writers’ Professional
Service, Box 28, 380 Collins-street,
Melbourne. It gives current details
of magazine—and radio-markets and
publishers, covering selected Aus-
tralian, New Zealand and overseas
markets J.L.: Old whipmakers
used any strong, resilient material
available to them —New Zealand flax
(phormium), hemp or fine leather
strips. You would probably find
any good-quality cord suitable for
your purpose. Better, a good
synthetic buttonhole-silk. (A good
silk thread is probably best, but it
clings—and is expensive.) About 12
strands of Sylko thread (as used in
fancywork) makes a good job.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stainps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.J.C.: All it achieved was to
plunge the office into g100m....
A.M.D.: We have more than a faint
suspicion that you are very young.
M.C.T.: The editor has no
prejudice against sweet violets on
mossy banks, except that every mail
brings him an overwhelming quantity
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
of the dashed things J.K.S.: The
same goes for camellias... .R.H.S.:
That conversation with the Sphinx
will have to be carried on elsewhere.
R.M.: Among the worst after-
maths of a flood —any old flood, any-
where —are the inevitable flood poems
that surge into 252 George-street.
D.W.B.: While your effort can-
not be described as “utmost confusion,
unutterable perplexity,” it is still far
short of publication level W.E.H.:
We had to have this:
We take quinine for a feverish cold,
Cough mixture for a cough;
We swallow a couple of sleeping pills
When sleep stands a long way off;
Aspirin we ,say is good for a “head,”
Embrocation for a kick on the shin,
And there’s nothing like a tot of rum
When one has a chill within.
Remedies we take for every ill,
And laud them to the skies,
But no cure has yet been discovered
• For folks addicted Ao lies.
... .J.M.: “I write all kinds of poems.
When anyone dies they come to me
sooner or later to write something to
put in the death adverts. 1 always
write something pathetick. I am not
really a sad sort of fellow like, but
I enjoy writing sad things for relations
of theirs that have passed-over. I
am really very verseatile and can rime
up anything. This poem refers to a
dog, but mostly they’re about
people:
He’s gone and left this mortel vale,
’Twas last week he passed over,
But he still smiles down
And wags he’s tail—
My faithful pal—old Rover!”
G.N.: The Religious Editor was
faintly stirred by the line “The
bubbling effervescence of ar glass of
wine” M.M.: Don’t say that you
are throwing the towel in:—
I’ve loved ’em all, both short and tall,
Through my long, enormous years;
Some left me with an aching heart,
While some I’ve left in tears. _
Now I’m afraid a sour old maid
Has put her brand on me,
Adjust the blame when you hear the name,
It’s Ann O. Domini.
M.L.S.: It’s about time that
Fisher’s Ghost was laid to rest.


See M. S. McLEOD LTD.’S FARMERS’ BOY DISPLAY
AT ADELAIDE ROYAL SHOW
m
*»” v :' : V,
mu
m
K
m
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS’ BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St., Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young St.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Sth. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane. FA2631.
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 115 York
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY. LTD..
32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distributor)
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major 1 ’
and Accessories.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
ORANGE FIELD-DAY
ONE of the most interesting
developments in the post-
war countryside has been the
waxing and waning of machinery
field-days.
In New South Wales, the one
held at Orange by the local
branch of the Graziers’ Associ-
ation hasn’t so far waned. Last
year some 12,000 people turned-
up to look at the farm-machinery
of all kinds, static and working,
the veterinary demonstrations,
the aeroplanes darting like
bright dragonflies against a
venetian-blind of blue sky and
green hill, trailing clouds of
super.; and all the rest that went
to make an attractive show.
This year the field-day com-
mittee, in the optimistic accents
of all proper committees,
expects a bigger roll-up of both
spectators and exhibitors —and
may well get it. It’s a large-
minded project, and one that
deserves success.
The show will be held on
Tuesday and Wednesday,
November 13 and 14, on 75
acres (rented for the purpose)
fronting the main Forbes road.
There will be the usual compara-
tive demonstrations where
machinery is capable of being
demonstrated side-by-side in the
field this will be done: all disk-
ploughs together; all harrows
together; all bulldozers to-
gether ; and so on. All imple-
ments of each type will com-
mence demonstrating at the same
time on adjoining strips of land,
previously allotted, will work
their given allotment, and then
will remain on the strip they
have worked until that par-
ticular demonstration is over.
The machine and allotment may
be marked with a sign (of speci-
Many cattle-owners consider
that marking calves by Elas-
trator rubber rings means
loss of the cod. If the rings
are used according to in-
structions this fear is quite
unfounded. Amongst thous-
ands of cattle-men who are
now regular users of Elas-
trator rubber rings one
crystalised the experience of
all when, after marking 90
Bull Calves, he wrote—“ The
thing that surprised me
more than anything was
that they were in good con-
dition with fat cods.”
fied size) to show the brand of
the machine, a brief description
of it, name of exhibitor, and the
price. When each group of
implements has finished its
demonstration, the next group,
each on its allotment of fresh
ground, will begin. These
demonstrations will continue
throughout the two-day pro-
gramme.
Areas have been marked-out
for comparative demonstrations
of all forms of ploughing, tillage,
and sowing-down equipment;
all forms of mowing, baling, and
fodder-conservation equipment;
all forms of earthmoving, chisel-
ploughing, and similar equip-
ment ; all forms of pumping and
irrigating equipment ; tractor
“general-utility” uses ; all forms
of orchard-spray equipment;
mobile-saws, and the like.
The practical demonstration of
orchard-spraying is a new fea-
ture. Last year there was plenty
of such equipment, in the village
of tents where various firms held
a kind of fair of their products,
but no demonstration under field
conditions.
This year, eight acres of apple-
orchard, about a mile from the
main site, will be used for
demonstration of spray-equip-
ment. Demonstrators wili
provide their own spray, but may
use only the type and strength of
chemical specified by the field-
day committee.
There will be the usual exhibi-
tion of machinery, fencing, silos,
sheds, and so on, that cannot
well be demonstrated in the
field; here, too, an exhibitor can
store or display any farm equip-
ment made or sold by him,
whether similar to the equipment
he has demonstrated or not.
Large-screen closed - circuit
television will be used (for the
first time in Australia) to show in
detail demonstrations of veterin-
ary surgery by officers of the
Department of Agriculture.
But what is particularly
interesting about the 1956 field-
day is the pfoposed new-
implements awards of merit.
Entries for these awards, which
amount to an endorsement by the
field-day committee, through a
panel of independent judges,
must be complete machines or
appliances with definite applica-
tion “to agriculture, horticulture
or other forms of primary
production or pastoral pursuits”
which either:
(a) fulfil some purpose of value for
which no machine or appliance has
been available hitherto; or
( b ) must embody, with consequent
advantage, some new principle of
working.
Such machines must be
available on the Australian
market, through normal retail
channels, and “mere changes of
design, construction or arrange-
ment, which do not involve any
new working principle, will not
qualify an entry for acceptance.”
The entries for this section
close on September 1. The idea
is that the implements will be
tested between the closing date
and November 13, and the certi-
ficates will be issued at the field-
day. Panel will consist of a
scientist, a mechanical engineer,
and a practical farmer; a senior
officer of the Department of
Agriculture and an engineer from
the University of Technology
will probably be asked to sit on
the panel, and there should be
no difficulty in finding a suitable
man for the third place.
The committee emphasises that
the award is non-competitive ;
their object is not to encourage
“a mad scramble between
machinery - manufacturers or
distributors to have their imple-
ments declared ‘the best.’ ” Any
number of machines could
receive awards, provided they
comply with the conditions:
“The award will be an endorse-
ment of the quality, prac-
ticability and economic value of
the machinery concerned.”
The idea is an excellent one.
“Any casual Work out here for a court-reporter ?”
It remains to be seen what is
forthcoming in the way of
entries. But, if the entries are up
to the standard the committee
has in mind, and if there are
enough of them, the award
seems likely to create its own
prestige, and should in time
become a recognised standard
throughout the Commonwealth.
Not all manufacturers will be
keen on the idea, but once it is
established it will be difficult for
many of them to keep out. There
is a need for such an award, or
standard, and the sooner it is
established the better for the
buyer.
J.F.
The Noisy Tractor
“Billjim”: A New Zealand
medico, A. Bell, has pointed to
a rather widespread occupational
disease of farmers deafness
caused by tractor-noise.
While asserting that until
future tractors are made quieter
than present-day types the
incidence of this disease will in-
crease, Bell mentions two ways
drivers may protect their ears
and methods by which tractor-
noise may be reduced.
A driver can protect his ears
by wearing plastic or rubber
defenders (the first-named is the
more efficient) or by simply
plugging his ears with cotton-
wool.
Two of the factors producing
noise on a tractor are loose
tracks and the position of the
silencer, and these may be
tightened and modified respec-
tively. Other factors, of course,
over which the operator has little
or no control, are the condition
of the ground, different uses to
which the machine is put, and
climatic conditions.
Bell says that the only long-
term solution is for an enlight-
ened farming community to
demand quieter tractors. He
believes manufacturers would
achieve considerable results by
redesign.
Cape York Peninsula
“Nedrium”: Neglected North
Queensland doesn’t really start
until you go north of Mossman.
The reason is sugar. There are
other land-products notably
cattle and tobacco on the table-
lands —but these are not in the
same economic class as sugar.
Right up the 500-mile stretch
from Mossman to Cape York
the picture is quite different.
This is all cattle-country, but
the cattleman isn’t much envied.
Partly tangled tropical jungle,
the area doesn’t bring in a great
deal in taxes —a sort of poor
relation. Only a handful of
idealists and a few stubborn
New Staters want to .smarten
the place up.
First place you usually reach
in this territory is Cooktown.
Late last century it had 11,000
people. Now it has a few
hundred, of whom only a few
remain optimistic about the
centre’s future. David Atherton,
Queensland Director of Tropi-
cal Agriculture, believes tobacco
can rescue Cooktown from final
decay. Tobacco grows ‘ well
along the red sands of the
Endeavour River flats, about 10
miles from the town. Problem
is to find growers, as tobacco
is a somewhat demanding crop,
needing special attention. Few
Mareeba-Dimbulah growers are
tempted to shift into isolation.
In the wet season, which may
last six months, there’s virtually
no road to Cooktown —from
any direction. As there is no
train, either, the traveller is left
to A.N.A.’s tri-weekly DC3, or
John Burke’s Government-
subsidised steamer Elsanna on
her northern run. Sometimes,
though, she misses Cooktown,
as there is insufficient cargo to
warrant a call.
Out west from Cooktown,
and northwards up the tapering
peninsula, are the huge cattle-
stations, all measured by the
square-mile. All have their eyes
trained down the stock-route to
the saleyards at Mareeba. Few
can afford to pay the extra and
have their cattle shipped down
to Cairns by the shallow-
draught ex-L.S.T. Wewak,
although this gets the stock there
without loss of condition.
Wewak is the most valuable
of the scanty northern fleet.
Without glamor she sweats up
and down the long and
treacherous coastline, bringing
in station-plant and better herd-
bulls and removing fats and
stores destined for the Cairns
meatworks. In a small way,
Wewak is steadily helping to
conquer the isolation.
The cattleman is relativel>
poor. Prices are low, and tick,
fire and flood lower his turn-
off. If he could move his stock
out quickly and without much
loss, for good returns, then there
would be money for improve-
ments. State agrostologist
Marriott believes that the area
could turn off 30,000 fats each
year with the use of better
grasses, such as buffel. In
general, this improvement of
pasture is confined to small
areas.
One of the most attractive
subjects imaginable for the
armchair-planner of works, this
northern tropical slice is
showered with suggestions for
its development. Of the surface-
glittering schemes proposed only
one that puts in a consistent
appearance seems very practic-
able. That road north from
Mossman, that bitumen high-
way, is certainly an essential.
Such a road would make Cook-
town feel it was part of Aus-
tralia, extend the northern limit
of Cairns cannery’s pineapple-
intake and bring the lonely
cattle-stations closer to ports
and meatworks.
For the rest, it remains a
matter of attention to details.
Better grasses (buffel for the
drier lands, guinea for the coast
and para for the swamps), sub-
division and higher-quality stock
with more and more tick-
resistant zebu-blood. Steady,
consistent effort.
There’s grandiose talk about
exotic crops such as tea, coffee,
sisal and rice—“ Anything will
grow in that soil, with all that
rain.” Those crops have been
grown with success, no doubt.
But beef alone, making two
head of zebu-cross bullocks
graze where one tick-plagued
beast grazed before, can make
an effective rescue.
It’s tough country, some of
it impenetrable range, and not
calculated to appeal to new
settlers, eager Asiatic eyes or
not. Surely, though, the frontier
that parted briefly with the
force of gold-hunger can be
pushed back. This will need
men, money and materials, if
these can be spared from such


PTY
LTD
LAND
COLUMN
THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simplel Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
iero to 50 feet.
m
'hewing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
rhe Bunyip Level is as simple to
>perate in the hands of a 10-year-
ild as the qualified engineer. It
annot get out of adjustment and
s a thoroughly efficient instrument
or use in all general construction
vork—which normally needs an
■xpensive levelling instrument
equiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level compk
is remarkably low priced
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX2515
Agents throughout Australia.
Rill In Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
csys
, ‘jSr* ! 3P*Bp
/
✓
r
r
<3O
•r" -
mm
£ B
m
a
1 1
a
&
i
$• s
I f
\mi
Patent No. 156596
OPERATING COSTS ONLY I/-AN ACRE!
• Fits any tractor P.T.O. Clears an
Bft. strip.
e High tensile Manganese alloy steel
chains harden with use.
©Adjustable friction type coupling
cushions shock loads.
• Price only £l9B F.0.R., F. 0.8., all
capital cities.
a The “Arthur” Rotary Slasher
will clear 5 to 7 acres an hour,
even in tough, dense growth and
operating costs average only 7/6
an hour! Bring YOUR pest-
smothered land into production in
one season!....increase your land
values overnight! Arrange a
demonstration with your nearest
Distributor!
TODSON
Write to the Manufacturers for Illustrated Literature
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS —S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., Power Plant Ltd. VIC.: Moore
Road Machinery Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmores Ltd.;
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., -Lidcom.be; British Tractors
Pty. Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day and Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle
Motors, Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. Export Enquiries to Manufacturers.
national necessities as television.
Perhaps King Cane could lend
a hand to get his northern
neighbor on his feet.
Belter Lambing-
percentages
“L.R.E.”: Efforts to increase
lambing-percentages in the past
have mainly been concentrated
on the ewe. But at the annual
Ruakura Farmers’ Conference,
in New Zealand, some interesting
information came to light on the
management of both rams and
ewes.
Research by three officers at
Ruakura, Dr. D. G. Edgar, L. J.
Lambourne and I. J. Inkster,
should point the way to better
lambings, if farmers like to act
on their findings.
It has been observed that low-
fertility is readily recognised in
stud flocks, but is harder to
detect in commercial flocks,
where sound rams suffer com-
petition with infertile rams,
which may be active workers.
Although the final test of a
ram’s fertility is in his breeding-
performance when joined with
the ewes, it’s highly desirable to
know about his fertility before
this.
In his work, Dr. Edgar has
examined ram-semen for two
reasons: firstly, to detect the
presence of brucella-organisms
which may be present in semen
without any abnormalities being
felt in the testicles; secondly,
to assess the quality from the
fertility angle.
To collect semen-samples, an
apparatus is inserted into the
ram’s rectum, and along this
instrument slight electrical
stimulations are passed. A
sample is collected, and tested
for fertility and disease. The
method of collection is con-
sidered not at all severe on the
ram.
In' research with ewes, Mr.
Lambourne has found that two-
tooths have shorter heat-periods,
and are mated fewer times by
a smaller number of rams than
are older ewes. Among all groups
of rams, one ram is boss, and
bullies the others away from
ewes in season. When many
ewes are on heat, the other rams
serve a reasonable share, but
when few ewes are available, the
boss-ram might be the only one
to serve them.
While this boss-ram might be
the most vigorous and fertile
ram at the start of the season,
after a time he might well be
the least-fertile ram in the
paddock.
Mr. Lambourne says that
experience at Ruakura, backed-
up by experiments overseas, has
shown that a decline in semen-
quality follows excessively fre-
quent mating. However, rams
whose fertility has been impaired
in this way quickly recover if
spelled.
The trials also confirmed
what has been established for
some time —that rams must be
in good physical condition
before being put out. Healthy
rams are necessary for good
conception.
Some interesting work has
been done on improving lamb-
ing-percentages in two-tooths.
Comparisons were made between
one group of ewes intensively
shepherded in a small, easy
paddock during the joining-
period, and another group left
strictly alone in a paddock of
105 acres, except for two
musters, when the rams were
interchanged with those of the
intensive group.
The mating systems employed
affected the incidence of barren-
ness among the two-tooths, but
not among mature ewes. This
was illustrated by nearly twice
as many dry two-tooths in the
extensive flock as in the intensive
flock. In addition, the two-tooths
intensively shepherded lambed
five days earlier than those run
extensively.
On the basis of this experi-
ment, Mr. Inksfer recommends
that two-tooths should be run
separately from mature ewes
during tupping, and should be
tupped in the smallest, easiest
paddocks available. They should
be mustered as frequently as
possibly, particularly during the
last three weeks before the rams
are removed.
It is further pointed out that
the potential of a flock can only
be realised if the ewes meet
fertile rams, and are served by
those rams at a time suitable for
conception.
From these trials it is con-
sidered that the maximum
number of rams should be in
use during the second and third
weeks of mating.
The Merino's Face
“Geep”: R. Fail and R. B.
Dun, of the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture’s Experiment
Station at Trangie, have reported
on the significance of face-cover
in Peppin-Merino ewes. They
compared the fertility, weight
and wool-production of
faced and open-faced animals,
and their results confirm those
J. E. Coop obtained working on
Corriedale and Romney-Corrie-
dale crosses inN.Z. (B. 27/6/’56).
Open-faced ewes, in the 3-4-
year age-group, showed 16 per
cent, greater lamb-production
than covered-faced, the effect
becoming less marked with age.
Other figures favoring the open-
faced animal were weaning-
weight of lambs (1.61 b. greater),
and mature body-weight (6.61 b.
greater at 12 months, 11.31 b. at
18 months).
Fleece-weight differences were
not very marked, though the
average of figures obtained
showed a 0.31 b. advantage in
favor of open-faced ewes. In
this respect, the Corriedale ex-
periments showed a similar clip
difference, but in favor of the
covered-faced sheep.
Both Australian and New
Zealand workers recommend
breeding from open-faced rams.
Hay for the Sideboard
“Antwerp”: Although it’s bad
policy to sell hay off the farm
or even to feed it out in any
paddock except the one from
which it is cut, mixed-farmers
who were unable to sow wheat
because of the wet winter could
supplement their incomes by
sales of pasture-hay this year.
Extra tonnages could be cut
above immediate and long-term
requirements. The sale of even
50 tons of good-quality hay or
lucerne could replenish reduced
incomes considerably.
If hay is sold off the property,
the main thing is to topdress
generously paddocks from
which it has been cut.
White-pesmcum
“Myall”: White-panicum, or
Siberian-millet (as it is erro-
neously called), is very popular
in southern Queensland as a
green-feed crop, and it’s sur-
prising that it is not more exten-
sively grown in the southern
States. It will thrive on any soil
that will grow either Japanese-
millet or Sudan-grass, and is
more palatable than these well-
known fodders.
Although not quite as fast a
grower as they are, it stools in
a remarkable manner, and may
be grazed with complete safety
at all stages of growth. Cattle
should be turned-in when the
crop is from din. to Sin. high,
and it should be kept eaten-down
fairly close, so that it cannot run
to seed. Sown in spring, when
danger of frosts is over, it will
give enormous yields of green-
feed throughout summer and
autumn, until cut by the frosts.
It will stand heavy stocking,
and quickly comes away after
being fed-off.
The seed-bed should be fine,
as the seed is rather small, and
sowing at the rate of 101 b. in
drills, or 151 b. broadcast, is
recommended. The plant makes
a very good hay when cut just
as the panicles are formed, and
may be made into silage or
chaffed.
Should fertilisers be needed,
superphosphate at the rate of
from 2cwt. to 3cwt. per acre will
give excellent results.
White-panicum is a good milk-
producer, and will not cause
hoven or tainting of milk. A
trial plot should be sown by
dairymen and graziers alike.
Bare Hills
“Barboga”: Bare patches of
crop on many Victorian Mallee
sandhills this wet, cold winter
could be covered by thick grain-
producing plants if owners had
followed recommendations by
research-stations early this year.
At the present price of manure
(£2B 10s. a ton of 1:1), and
assuming continuance of the
same extra yield of crop, it would
pay to use 1201 b. an acre of
super, and ammonia 1 : 1 even if
the price fell to 7s. a bushel of
wheat.
Although there would not be
any extra financial return at
this price, the better vegetative
cover left on the hills to protect
them from erosion would justify
the treatment.
Experiments showed no
advantage from applying zinc or
any other trace-element in the
northern Mallee, although some
wheatgrowers claim success with
zinc farther south, around Hope-
toun and Woomelang.
Zinc gives its best results in
extra yield on the Wimmera
black soils, where its use is
general.
Nitrogen
“Sundowner”: Nitrogen is
always important in citrus and
stone-fruit orchards, but it’s
vital that it should be available
to the trees when sap rises before
bud-burst. Recommended appli-
cations are 21b. to 31b. of
sulphate-of-ammonia per tree for
stone-fruits and 61b. to 71b. per
tree for citrus. Urea can replace
ammonia as a soil-dressing used
at 31b. to 41b. per tree.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(9/8/’56)
Reasonably good general rains should be received in
a large part of Queensland during September, .although
the north-west area and Peninsula may be mainly dry,
with little relief until November. Severe wind and hailstorms
likely in October-November. , . e
General rains are likely in most of N.S.W. during Sep-
tember, with the heaviest falls on the s--w. slopes m
the Riverina and far-western division. .Rainfall should then
moderate, but become heavy again during December.
Victoria should receive general rains above average
during September, with the prospect of flooding in the
northern division and the Yarra; similar conditions may
occur in October. ,
General rains are likely in South Australia, with good
follow-on rains for the balance of the year. .
Rainfall should vary from moderate to good in the
south-west agricultural areas of W.A. in September, with
good rains in the Kimberleys, north Gascoyne and portion ot
the goldfields area. However, little relief may occur in the
Murchison and in drought-areas until February.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Higher Education
The N.S.W. Department of Education
is said to be perturbed by the small pro-
portion of high-school pupils who stay
the course and sit for the Leaving. The
result may be a measure making educa-
tion compulsory to the age of 17.
It is to be hoped that more realistic
views will prevail. You can make boys
or girls attend school to any age you
wish, but you cannot make them learn.
The path of education should be made
easier by monetary grants or other aids
for all students willing and able to profit
by higher work. For all others it would
be serious waste of time and money.
And the time wasted would not be only
the time of the teachers and the unwilling
pupils; the progress of the real and able
students would be hindered by the passive
or active resistance of their forced com-
rades.
A boy of 14 is beginning to have some
ideas of his own about his future, and
these ideas do not always coincide with
those of educational leaders. Only 50
per cent, (a liberal estimate) of secondary
pupils are at all bookish. They do not
read much or read well, and their parents
do not set them an example of reading.
In private schools mapy of the post-inter-
mediate pupils attend merely for the
sporting or social activities of the school.
Their parents are often fairly wealthy,
and never expect Jack or Jill to pass the
Leaving.
In tihe U.S.A., “education” is com-
pulsory in many States to al least 17, but
is it education? In some States “beauty-
culture” and “deportment” rate almost
equally with English or mathematics or
history.
We also hear that students are given
trade- or business - experience. A
prominent local educationist on a trip
to the U.S. was given an eye-opener on
this point. The careers-adviser in a big
high-school said he was run off his feet.
Fie had been seeing every garage-owner,
manufacturer and milk-bar proprietor in
the city, asking them if they would like
the free service of two or three boys half-
time for a term. They generally agreed,
and would get the boys standing round
every afternoon, possibly doing a little
work and, at any rate, “receiving busi-
ness- or trade-experience” within the
meaning of the Act.
Education to the age of 17 (post-
intermediate) is very costly, because of
small classes and specialist teachers, and,
except with pretty fair pupils, very
wasteful. The unwilling pupil is the worst
material of the lot. You may make him
sit in the class, you may make him keep
quiet—though that is not always easy—
but you cannot make him attend to the
lesson, or think, or be interested. And
if that is true of a single lesson what
will happen with a series of connected
lessons, as in mathematics?
In fact, youngsters do not always trust
their teachers. When a teacher tells them
that literature is very interesting or
mathematics very useful they think he
says so because he is a teacher paid to
say just that. If such a boy were work-
ing in a garage and the boss told him he
would never get far without mathematics
he would go to tech, evening-classes and
learn painfully what he might have learnt
easily at school a year or so earlier.
It is even doubtful whether compulsory
attendance to 15 is worth while. The
educationist quoted in the foregoing
thinks that unwilling attendance at school
is a serious contributor to adolescent
delinquency. It is worth thinking over. —
Magellan (N.S.W.).
Butter
“J.J.A.” (B. 25/7/’56) doesn’t appear
to know much about dairying or butter.
First, there are three grades of cream in
Victoria, and there are also three grades
of butter. There are also three grades
of butter under Commonwealth export
regulations. The Victorian regulations
provide that choicest cream shall be
capable of being made into choicest
butter, first-grade cream shall be capable
of being made into first-grade butter,
and second-grade cream shall be capable
of being made into second-grade butter.
To suggest mixing three grades of cream
for export butter is plain ignorance.
Second, “J.J.A.” says “testing is done
by tasting.” The diagnosing of trouble
in cream by taste and smell is known as
grading; “testing” means the determina-
tion, by an analytical method (usually the
“babcock” test), of the percentage of
butterfat-content of the cream. Separate
examinations are held and separate certi-
ficates issued for testers and graders.
And what makes “J.J.A.” think that
“the cream is all poured together”? In
the parlance of butter-factories, cream is
“tipped,” not poured; Any grader per-
mitting second-grade cream to be tipped
in with choicest would not last a week
in the game. Grading is not a farce. The
diagnosis of the faults in cream is a
serious technical matter and very im-
portant to the butter-factory.
“J.J.A.” adds that the return from
milk is twice that from butter. Rubbish!
The return from milk for the retail trade
of Melbourne and Sydney is about 60
to 70 per cent, higher than that from
cream for butter-making. But milk for
retail trade forms only a small percentage
of all the whole-milk delivered to Vic-
torian factories. The larger proportion
of the milk is used for the manufacture
of cheese, casein, powdered-milk and
condensed-milk, and it is admitted by
expert dairy-technologists that a com-
petent mixed-farmer can, by skilled use
of his skim-milk for pig-feeding, and in
some cases calves and poultry, get as
good a return as by selling whole-milk
for processing in factories.
City milk is certainly paid for at
higher rates, but it is only a small propor-
tion of the milk received at factories.
It also requires a much higher standard
of quality. Many farmers who produce
low-grade cream would never have a
hope of getting their milk on the city
market. —S. C. M. (Vic.).
Augustan Dictatorship
An “Augustan dictatorship” may not
be a solution to today’s problems (B.
25/7/’56), but it was certainly the answer
to the problems Rome faced at the time.
The course of the republic’s history,
beginning in 510 b.c. with the expulsion
from Rome of the Tarquin kings, has
been traced recently by F. R. Cowell in
his Cicero and the Roman Republic. For
several centuries, in Rome’s pro-
gress from a city State to a
world Empire, it is a story of
hard work, frugal living, battles
with Nature and with neighbor-
ing cities and tribes ; overall a
story of strength, of glory and
—fundamentally—of prosperity.
Briefly, the decline of the
republic was due, in the main,
to the misuse of the huge wealth
accumulating in the hands of a
few Romans (too much luxury
and dissipation), reliance on
slave-labor, destruction as a
class of the small independent
farmer and tradesman (back-
bone of the State in earlier days)
and the creation of an idle,
turbulent population in Rome
itself.
All these factors combined in various
ways to produce the final cause of its
downfall —the rise of military adventurers
and would-be dictators, backed by
armies. Around. 80 b.c. civil war broke
out between two such rivals, Sulla and
Marius, both of whom at different times
massacred large numbers of the sup-
porters of the other —many old Senatorial
and aristocratic families were almost
wholly wiped out at this period.
Thirty years or so later (48 b.c. and
earlier) there was renewed civil war,
“Very well, Verco —you may transfer to Anti-tank."
between Julius Caesar and Pompey ; and
after Caesar’s murder (44 b.c.) it was
renewed yet once more, between his heir,
Octavian (Augustus), and Mark Antony.
With Rome thus exhausted, economic-
ally and socially, and with its manhood
depleted, the rule of a dictator, “benevol-
ent,” yet strong and ruthless enough to
prevent the rise of a rival, was the only
thing possible. As H. G. Wells says in
The Outline of History, “Octavian was
a man of far greater breadth and capacity
than any other player in this last act of
the republican drama in Rome. All
things considered, he was perhaps the
best thing that could have happened to
Rome at that time.”
Many of the succeeding Emperors
were not of the same mould as Augustus.
Therein lies one of the main weaknesses
of perpetual dictatorship. On this point,
Cowell, while recognising the merits of
Augustus, says it is “dangerous to
approve such a ‘totalitarian’ solution
merely because it results in neater and
more efficient public administration.
Tyranny is destructive. It cannot create,
for creation must come from the free
development of individual lives, which is
precisely what totalitarianism and one-
man rule cannot possibly allow.”
Yet there may come times when we,
too, may need an “Augustan dictator.”
Not now. Suez and all thrown in, I can’t
see there is any need at present, in any
of the important countries of the free
world, for a dictator to save democracy.
They must be very grave times indeed
before we willingly give up our freedom
to preserve our freedom.
But, in such really grave times, we may,
for very survival, have to appoint a
dictator with supreme powers—powers
which will endure for the duration of the
emergency or, at the least, for some
specified period, but for no longer. The
Romans of the glorious days of the
republic did just this —the famed Cincin-
natus was but one such dictator—and
their system was apparently foolproof,
for these dictators always yielded-up
their power when thfe time came for them
to do so.
That sort of Augustan dictatorship, for
a limited period only and with adequate
safeguards, could be extremely useful in
a crisis. Because we’ve “muddled
through” before doesn’t mean that we’ll
always be able to do so. —K. R. (N.S.W.).
Diesels
Labor-costs disprove “Transporticus’s”
statement (B. 1/8/’56) that my illustra-
tion of diesel-loco, superiority “proves
nothing of value.”
No one will dispute that wage-costs
are a major industrial headache, so it is
puzzling when “Transporticus” is unim-
pressed by a 66 per cent, crew man-hour
saving on one train. He also appears to
i»ave no appreciation of provision-costs
and maintenance-costs for intermediate
and terminal loco.-depots. These, which
absorb up to 20 per cent, of crew man-
hours involved in a shift of traffic-
service by steam-locos, are totally
unnecessary for diesels.
“T.” asserts that two diesel-locos,
replacing two steam-locos, meant that
“double-heading was still necessary to
haul the train.” Quite so, but the diesels
achieved a reduced running-time and
more efficient service. The appearance
of two sets of coupled locos, is one
thing—the analysis of their relative values
is far different.
The fact of diesel portability allowing
electrical power-transmission is a point
of diesel efficiency not applicable to
steam-reciprocating engine-locos, or to
attempts at turbine-generation on steam-
locos.
Modern industry, after exploiting the
extremes of superheat, compounding and
condensing, has now no place for a
reciprocating steam-engine. Our leading
engineers and industrialists might be very
interested to see “T.’s” “millions of i.-c.
plants with threequarters the efficiency
of steam.”
From the operating point of view, such
diesel advantages as electrical braking,
constant flow of energy to the point of
work and use of maximum power at any
time enable greater avail of momentum
and minimum coupling-movement. These
make for the flexible control of long,
heavy, fast trains far beyond the expec-
tations of steam. If anything, steam has
a slight advantage in acceleration from
a standing start, but nothing in running.
Diesels are here to stay. — Four Threes
(Vic.).
I wouldn’t argue with Clem Lack on
the subject of a new Northern State (B.
8/ 8 / ’56), but one of his points certainly
calls for clarification. Why would the
new State have to find the money for the
“complete dieselisation of the Towns-
ville-Mt. Isa rail-section”? Back in
1951, when I objected to such a policy in
view of the damage it would do the very
important Queensland coal-industry,
“C.L.” was very caustic —“Did I not
realise that the diesels were only to be
used on a few passenger-trains?” How
do we stand now?
The present position is not satisfactory,
but it would not be difficult to improve it,
still using local coal. Although it may
be a bit costly to haul coal as far as they
have to on that line, the basic fact
remains that the whole operation is a
domestic one, using no more than Aus-
tralian currency—no high politico has to
go touring the world cap-in-hand begging
for the wherewithal to keep the existing
set-up running.
Dieselisation is fashionable, but it
immediately adds another straw to our
burden of imports without adding a single
ounce to the production of the district to
set against it. It might help the railway
commissioner to balance his accounts, but
even that is not proved, and there s no
evidence that we could expect any reduc-
tion in freights.
What is quite obvious is that one or
more of those small mining-centres, wnicn
have done so much to decentralise
Queensland’s population, would close-
down and become derelict, and tna
strikes me as far too high a price J° Pjj
for this spurious “progress. iRAi s-
porticus (Singapore).


Petrol Prices
Although the Australian public has
accepted price-rises for many products
without organised protest, the compara-
tively modest jump of lJfd. a gallon in
petrol (with corresponding increases in
other petroleum-products) has raised a
storm of criticism which the oil-companies
cannot really ignore. They control the
distribution and prices of a series of
commodities essential to modern
civilisation.
With petrol, the added cost to the run-
ning of prime-movers generally, as well as
to transport, is a direct charge on all in-
dustry, which will, of course, pass that
charge on to the public. That must mean
further inflation, which will certainly be
felt by the oil-industry itself, thus causing
a plea for a further increase in prices.
In the recent past, Australian oil-
companies have made only moderate
demands, but the explanations regard-
ing the latest rise are not convincing.
The quoted figure of 4.3 per cent,
net profit as an average for all
the ramifications of the world-wide
oil-business is quite irrelevant; the net
profit of over 5 per cent, (as quoted in
a “breakdown” of the price of standard
petrol) on the landed cost (after paying
all charges and taxes) should be satis-
factory for such an easily-sold and quick-
return commodity. This can be verified
by examining the balance-sheets of minor
and major distributors in Australia —par-
ticularly when the huge capital increases
are allowed for.
To blame tankerage charges is also
irrelevant, for even the smaller bulk-
distributors, who do not own tankers or
producing-wells (either directly or through
subsidiaries), have shown highly satis-
factory profits without benefit of tanker
or well. If it is true that “the oil-industry
has no alternative but, reluctantly, to
make these fully justified increases,” then
the fauli must lie within the industry
itself.
I suggest that an important factor is
that the running of “one-brand” petrol-
stations has proved uneconomic. Even
the so-called “independent” stations are
really limited-brand vendors. And the
increased cost, surely, cannot be attributed
to the fact that so much of the output of
the refined products is processed in Aus-
tralia! If so, the importers of foreign-
processed petroleum-products have the
advantage; but they, also, have put the
prices up.
That some of the distributors them-
selves are doubtful as to the wisdom of
imposing the additional is evident
from the fact that on the morning of
August 12 one of the major distributors
was selling petrol “at the old price,'’ and
that, by the afternoon, this lead was
followed by several of its competitors.—
Abdul Assiz (N.S.W.).
Trees
Years ago this northern Sydney suburb
was remarkable for its groves of stately
eucalypts, but when rates started to hit
the three-figure mark many properties
were subdivided and gradually the trees
were thinned-out. Today there’s only
about a tenth of them left. If the devasta-
tion continues the place will soon lose
its chief attraction.
Along our street some big gums must
have flourished for centuries. Last week
a dozen men armed with axes, ropes,
picks and spades brought them low in no
time.
A European country maintains what I
consider is a wholly admirable institution.
When a citizen wishes to fell a tree he
must first obtain permission from the
local council. If a permit is granted the
householder is expected to plant another
tree in a more convenient spot. —Maitri
(N.S.W.).
Atomic Power
I’ll take an even fiver with Mr. Hastings
Deering that “far areas of Australia” will
not be “energised to new life by the
supply of atomic power within the next
10 years” (B. 25/7/’56). It’s a common
idea that this new source of energy only
requires a small black box with a few
wires leading out of it, whereas it really
involves a very large powerhouse with
all the usual fittings of the thermal unit
except that the reactor replaces the
boilers.
As there’s little indication that the cost
per unit will be lower than at present
it would be interesting to know what sort
"The blood rushes to my head."
of inducement will be offered to make us
do with the atom what we are so strongly
disinclined to do with our ample coal-
supplies. In the U.K., where they are
seriously short of coal, they have a
programme which calls for 12 stations
to be built in the next 10 years with a
total output of two-million kilowatts
and a cost of £3OO million.
On the propulsion of ships and aircraft
I’m not disposed to argue with Earl
Mountbatten or General Doolittle, both
of whom may be right, although nuclear
power for any but the largest special type
of aircraft could justifiably be taken with
a grain of salt in the light of current
knowledge.
On ships, I have just managed to
wade through the latest “Transactions of
the Institute of Marine Engineers,” a very
tough and hard-headed bunch, who have
recently had a paper on the subject read
before them. From what I can make out
of the result it would be quite a simple
matter to apply the atom to the pro-
peller, but it would cost roughly three
times as much as the more conventional
power-plant to operate. Transport icus
(Singapore).
Transport
The most pressing need in Australia’s
transport muddle is a sense of proportion.
State railways’ losses may have reached
the stage where they are imperilling finan-
cial stability, but as these losses are
largely due to competition it’s worth
taking a look at the competitors.
In a small area of northern Victoria it
is estimated that it will cost £3,000,000
to repair the damage to roads caused
by recent floods combined with the
murderous pounding of large trucks. The
trucks won’t pay—road-transport neither
builds nor maintains roads so the
ordinary taxpayer will have to do so.
Is that unnecessary slug (part of the cost
of the Section 92 decision) any less objec-
tionable than a railway loss?
Our airways are wonderful, and we
never tire of telling the world how good
they are, but they’ve killed coastal
passenger-shipping and knocked-out any
profit to be had from rail-passenger
services.
How do they stand financially? On the
last figures available the Civil Aviation
vote represented a direct subsidy of more
than £5 per passenger.
There’s something particularly Aus-
tralian —and disturbing—about the way
this sort of set-up is accepted with com-
plete equanimity on the one hand, while,
on the other, the railway position, which
is a direct and inevitable result of it,
causes such hypocritical indignation.
Transporticus (Singapore).
Once again there is a nation-wide out-
cry for better roads, as the drivers of
trucks and cars in the south-eastern por-
tion of the continent strain their trans-
missions and their blood-pressure
extricating their vehicles from bogs and
flooded roads.
The main but least-deserving targets
for criticism are probably the road-
engineers. Their blue was that they didn’t
consider that an annual average rainfall
of 40in. is composed of very dry years
when the surface becomes brittle and
crumbly, and very wet years when this
unstable surface becomes soft and
inelastic. That is about the limit of their
guilt, for the Australian engineer is
renowned for making traffickable roads
under adverse conditions and on a shoe-
string budget.
Second, there are the planners. - But
who, a few years ago, could foresee the
immense grip the internal-combustion
engine would 'obtain on the country’s
economy? Who, say, 20 years ago, fore-
saw that the ordinary working-man would
be able to afford the modern horseless-
carriage?
Third, there are the people who profit
by a modern road-system —the tourists,
the poorest of whom considers £BO a
reasonable holiday-budget; the truck-
operator, who moans of “crippling”
registration-fees but still makes good
profits; and the oil-concerns and rubber-
companies. All of these are crying in
unison, “Why doesn’t the Government do
something? ”
Why don’t these groups, with their huge
financial resources, float a company to
build toll-roads? Large lumps of share-
capital could be provided by the corpora-
tions, and debentures would be attractive
to the smaller investor interested in short-
term security.
And what would be the reaction of the
road-user to paying a toll? I put this
question to tourists and businessmen;
“What would you consider a reasonable
sum to pay for the privilege of using a
dual highway between Sydney and
Wagga?” The highest figure was sug-
gested by a Canberra man —£5. No one
went lower than £2. A man buying his
semi-trailer on terms said, “I’d save ten-
quid a trip between Sydney and Albury.”
I asked tourists using the Eyre High-
way linking S.A. to the West 14 in one
hour through Eucla at the peak of the
Christmas rush —-“Wouldn’t you like a
bitumen road here?” lypical reply was,
“I’d give ten-pounds a trip to have a
sealed surface all the way to the West.
It doesn’t need a mathematician to
point the moral in this. The entire
country would profit if the motorist were
to buy £lOO-worth of debentures and
do without his tour, and if the oil-
companies invested in turnpike-companies
instead of chains of filling-stations. Each
road-user would have his investment
multiplied in a very short time. Burr
Imul (S.A.).
Poker-machines
Why does my reference to raffles run
by church cricket-clubs have no bearing on
the poker-machine dispute (B. 15/8/’56)?
Apart from the publicans, whose aim
was to close the licensed clubs and so
increase their own bar-trade, most of the
opposition to poker-machines came from
the churches. They condemned the one-
armed bandits as immoral, because they
were a form of gambling. I merely
pointed out that they had condoned
another form of gambling (raffles) con-
ducted by sporting-bodies associated with
churches.
Since “C.8.M.” claims that sporting-
bodies can be run without gambling, I
wish he would tell me how it is done. Or
does he mean that you can manage with-
out poker-fnachines if you use other
gambling devices, such as raffles, punch-
boards, chocolate-wheels and other games
of chance? — Mullum (N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 397
Across
I— His Majesty has been out in the
sun, drinking. (7)
4—gig lane reconstructed from
Western Europe. (7)
B—King’s8—King’s Cross is first among
thrashings. (9)
10—Ernest canonised the serious rear,
Isaac. (5)
II — He carelessly takes a girl to the
Northern Territory’s softeners.
(10)
12 —A fuel for heating influential
Turks? (4)
15— Equipment for broadcasting a
manuscript about the President.
(5 > , ,
16 — Pronouns ounces duck one
crescent of the Triassic-Jurassic-
Cretaceous era. (8)
19 — Awnout is a medical man.
though attenuated. (5, 3)
20 — Decree as in a ukulele. (5)
23 See out the course cobbler’s
equipment eligible for the booby
prize. (4)
24 — Dream-tunes are rearranged but
still beyond our control. (10)
26 —Supreme extremes of the alphabet
gem. (5)
28 —1 am on the council comment
about the thing distinguishing a
trolley-bus from a tram skirt. (9)
29 — Encores a fabric grub. (7) •
30 — Forms 150 beasts of burden. (7)
Down
1— Queer Street examiner. (6)
2 Italian’s lowest tide to circle
disorderly Latins. (11)
3 Auburn nigger is out of order.
(6)
4 Drunk, and is so interrupting
Bette Davis's initial. (8)
5 Catalogue with an inclination.
(4) .
6 The Kings in the'ltalian wrath.
(3)
7 Once Huns can become unique.
(8)
9 —Where cats fight an order to
bump off a boy. (8)
13 — Passengers don’t take such
haloed muscle troubles. (5,6)
14 — Australian bird station near Gem-
brook in Victoria. (8)
17 — A pagan one to do after. (8)
18 — Bunny’s coal and the north
services which succeed the
infernos. (8)
21— Mother turned in a current mad-
man. (6)
22 They poison mathematicians. (6)
25—Electrolytic Zinc takes on an
artist who wrote a history of
Israel? (4) _
27—Father makes a report. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 396


THE MARS
SPLIT CASING - RUBBER & ALLOY-LINED
PUMPS
TYPE RANGE
GRAVITY
SUCTION
CORROSION RESISTANT
HEAVY SOLIDS le.g. GRAVED
The MARS
“DRY-WELL”
PUMP
is
1
■n
\
*>
(o
mm
IMMEDIATE
EARLY
DELIVERIES
ALL INDUSTRY’S INDUSTRIAL PUMP
FOR
SAND AND GRAVEL
EARTH MOVING
RECLAMATION
DREDGING
SUGAR MILLS
REFINERIES
POWER STATIONS
CEMENT AND BRICK MFRG.
REPLACEMENT PARTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE
3QV#
*\ / O
*av w
DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES:
H"r! i ,w 6 e l '? Ster , I l, M x^ chinery Co - Ltd., Perth. VIC.: Herbert Osborne Pty. Ltd., 567-569 Little Bourke Street, Melbourne. S.A.: W.
PH, T»i iVS'\, M ™ a y mouth Street, Adelaide. N.S.W. & Qld.: Mars Machine Tool Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd. TAS.: Perkins
S l t° C °l lin t s Street ’ Hobart. INDIA, BOMBAY PROVINCE: R. S. Mehta & Co., Ali Chambers, Fort, Bombay. PHILIPPINES:
lht Earnshaw Dock and Honolulu Iron Works, Manila.
MiDaH
M ANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGE ST. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
