

/
■m
e
SOLER 4
W E
The Bulletin
RIDING THE RED WHIRLWIND-p»ge 2 «^
Hjhe Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3960
Wednesday* January 4, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 219: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.
HAVERFORDWEST CASTLE: WELSH REMNAN OF THE CIVIL WAR
HAVERFORDWEST, the county town of Pembrokeshire, is situated on a
hill overlooking the valley of the Western Cleddau. With a population
of 6000 it was, until recently, the only town of its size in Britain having its
own lord-lieutenant. It had its . first charter in 1154 and was incorporated
in 1479.
The town was English in origin and traditions and during the Middle
Ages it was one of the chief centres of warfare in Wales which centred
around the castle still standing on a bold bluff above the town. Although
the castle is only a shell of its former proportions, part of it is still in use
as a police station.
The castle is believed to have been built by Gilbert de Clare, first Earl of
Pembroke, in 1120. It was visited by Henry II in 1153 and by Richard II
in 1399 when returning from Ireland. In 1405 it withstood the attack of
Owen Glendower and his French allies. This remarkable figure in Welsh
history was the leader of a rebellion which began in 1400 against the
rapacity of the king’s officials. Owen was descended from the royal houses
of Wales and had been a squire to Richard 11. For nearly fourteen years he
was master of Wales and the Border Country. He was declared Prince of
Wales and held Parliaments at Machynlleth, Dolgelley and Harlech. He
made a treaty with the king of France and obtained French support for his
cause, and in 1407 he was joined by a French force of 12,000 men who
landed at Milford Haven, nine miles from Haverfordwest.
During the Civil War the castle was garrisoned for the king but in
1644-5 it was captured by the Parliamentary forces; three years later Oliver
Cromwell issued a warrant for its demolition. This document and others
relating to it are preserved in the archives of the town council of Haverford-
west. Efforts at demolition, however, were not entirely successful and much
of the castle still survives to serve a useful purpose, and from its ramparts a
splendid view of the surrounding country is obtained.


RAISE YOUR INCOME
Wherever you live, a Modern Home-study
Training with STOTT’S will equip YOU
for a well-paid Career or for Promotion
in your present Sphere.
Shorthand/Typewriting
Bookkeeping (Farm,
Station, Commercial)
Accountancy and
Inst, of Secretaries
Shire Cierks’ Exams.
Story Writing
Journalism (Freelance)
Showcard and
Ticket Writing
Dresscutting/Design
Advertisement Writing
Salesmanship
English, Arithmetic
Dairy Farming
Livestock Breeding
Soil/Farm Crops
Dairy Supervisors
Testers, Graders
Farm Arith../Surveying
Handwriting
Nurses’ Entrance
Police Entrance
Commercial Art
Drawing, Sketching
Caricature, Cartooning
Backward Adults *■
Badio (For Amateurs)
Motor Mechanics
Engineering (Diesel,
Mech., Electrical)
Boiler Attendants
Engine Drivers
Dynamo Attendants
Building Construction
Estimating/Tendering
Draftsmanship
Stammerers
General Education
University Exams.
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Svdney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St./ Perth.
—, CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON -----
To STOTT’S: Please send me, free and without
obligation, full particulars of your Oourse/s in—
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 156) AGE
The Red Page
A CHINESE EMPRESS
In The Empress Wu (Cheshire), C. P.
Fitzgerald, Professor of* Far Eastern
History in the National University at
Canberra, presents a career-woman of
A.D. 625-705; in Professor Fitzgerald’s
succinct and luminous 200 pages she
is shown as an evil woman, but a ruler
of great capacity, to whom nothing was
too much trouble, especially murder.
As the heroine of a contemporary 600-
page costume-novel, with the Pro-
fessor’s sketches of voluptuousness and
violence filled-in and colored, she might
outsell “Forever Amber.”
At 13 Wu Chao was installed as
Concubine of the Fifth Grade to the
T’ang Emperor T’ai Tsung, and be-
fore he died is supposed to have had
an affair with the Crown Prince; so
that when the Crown Prince became
the Emperor Kao Tsung he remem-
bered her well enough to want her
back from the convent where she had
gone on the death of his father. Her
return was welcomed, and maybe pro-
cured, by the new Emperor’s No. 1
concubine, the Empress Wang,
felt that the beautiful Wu might break
the spell of the Emperor’s favorite, the
Pure Concubine. Within three years
Wu gave the Emperor a son, and a
year later a daughter, whom she
strangled after a visit from the
Empress, observing to the Emperor
that the Empress had done it.
In this way she progressed in the
Emperor’s affections, and the two are
soon seen working upon their Ministers
to have the Empress Wang put aside
and Wu made Empress in her place.
The change having been effected, the
former Empress and the Pure Concu-
bine were imprisoned in such a way as
to shock the Emperor when he hap-
pened to visit them. Hearing of which
the Empress Wu had the women each
beaten with a hundred blows, their
feet and hands cut off and the
remainder thrown into a brewing-vat,
where they died after several days and
were cut to pieces and beheaded.
She may have poisoned her own son;
she probably poisoned her niece at a
dinner-party and certainly < had her
nephews executed for . . .
but this, Professor Fitzgerald .. t points
out, was most likely an act of policy,
to discourage her family. Former
Empresses of China had failed or fallen
through being merely the instruments
of the ambitions of their powerful
families —the Empress Wu was not
going to be caught that way; she was
going to govern in her own right.
She began by listening to the sessions
of State from behind a screen near the
Emperor. During his illnesses she
gradually got her hands upon public
business; the dead, or murdered, Crown
Prince was replaced by another son
(who was probably her nephew, the son
of her sister, whom she had introduced
to the Emperor’s affections). He was
suspected of a rebel plot and replaced
by a fourth son, who became the
Emperor Chung Tsung on Kao Tsung’s
death. But for only two months; the
pushing of the new Empress Wei of
her family’s fortunes worried the
Prime Minister, who enabled the
Dowager Empress Wu to depose Chung
Tsung, set up her youngest son as
the Emperor Jui Tsung and, putting
him to one side, to rule until, in 690,
she was able to proclaim herself
Empress in her own right, changing the
name of the dynasty from T’ang to
Chou.
At 60 she took as her lover a door-
to-door salesman of cosmetics; a huge
man with a talent for architecture, who
masqueraded as a Buddhist priest,
rioted, committed all kinds of licenti-
ousness, rode into Court on horseback
to answer a charge, built the great
Ming T’ang pagoda (with a height of
294 ft., it must surely have had an area
of 300 ft. square and not “300 square-
feet” as is printed here), and was either
bound and strangled by palace women
or beaten to death by palace guards
after he had become tedious. And at
72 the Empress Wu fell under the
influence of the heavily-painted Chang
brothers, who played-off the rival clans
against each other, took bribes and
became so unpopular that Chung
Tsung, who had been restored to favor
as Crown Prince, was able to lead a
party to behead them on the veranda
of the 80-year-old Empress’s apart-
ments, thereafter resuming the title of
Emperor and restoring the T’ang
dynasty.
And why was this monster tolerated
and respected for 50 years by people,
officials, armies and Ministers? Be-
cause, says Professor Fitzgerald, they
knew she could rule. She was an
extreme illustration of the paradox that
only the ruthless can be impartial. She
had the gift of Elizabeth I of England
and Isabella of Spain for choosing
generals and Ministers. She accom-
plished the conquest of Korea when
it was almost despaired of; she-
redressed Army grievances; she knew
when to defer, as when the people
began to murmur over the proposed
expenditure on a huge Buddha; she
made wise decrees, lifting taxes from
the common people, granting free
representations to the throne, protect-
ing retired officials, etc.
At the same time, she never seems
to have set out to do good; she tolerated
a vile system of secret-police and
•informers, and had it disbanded only
when it grew too hot to hold. But, then,
for those who love power, a resolution
not to try to do good may be the wisest
of the virtues'.
Professor Fitzgerald is worried lest
his readers may be confused by the
Chinese names, and has made an
appendix-list of the cast, a table of
relationships (an argument against
concubinage is the headaches it pro-
vides for genealogists), a table of events,
maps, notes, a list of sources, a Chinese
index of names and a good general
index.
GIRL BY GREEN WATER
Above clear pebbles smooth as glass,
within green weed and webs of air,
the tongues of quick and brilliant fish
move at her mouth, her eyes, her hair.
Her face in water trembles, moves;
splays the light, the water lily.
From pools of silence rivers flow
where all is movement, flux and eddy.
And shadows brush her loosened hair
and comb the sunlight in its strands,
girl, whose slender birdlike hands
comb the light, the green, the cool
that ripple in wide water down
an avenue of stones and wild lilies;
girl, whose silence like a pool
settles, gathers, ripples, eddies.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN SMITH.
Table-talk
Walter Janies, who has written
several pleasant books on wine, has
produced in The Gadding Vine
(Georgian House) a book to which
wine is only an accessory—an acces-
sory before the fact, perhaps; a book
of apecdotes about millionaires who
insulted him with champagne through-
out a meal, memories of books he has
read, the difference between shiraz and
riesling grapes, the old French custom
of women plastering hands and faces
with veal at blood-heat to nourish the
skin, methods of catching and cooking
frogs, interlarded here and there with
stories which would bring the blush to
the maiden’s cheek if one could find
one to experiment upon; and one
might let all this pass if it were not
for a remark on furniture-makers being
“men of very limited understanding.”
No Carpenter, no Christmas; and it
grieves me that one so familiar with
Sir Thomas Browne’s “Vulgar Errors”
as Mr. James should foster one him-
self: the theory that a hot Christmas-
dinner is a mistake in the antipodes
—for if you go to Tonga or any of
those places where the weather is
around boiling-point all the year, what
do they serve-up to celebrate the event?
Hot pig on banana-leaves. And they’ve
been longer than Mr. James in the
down-under restaurant business.
One can sympathise with Mr.
James’s passion for a table polished
over 20 years with gravy-slops and
wine so that it glows like a glass of
old burgundy, though it were better
it were never touched at all than with
beeswax. Beeswax! And there is this
to be said for the shellac he despises,
that he who has a bottle of shellac in
his house need never go to bed
sober . . .
It is a beautifully-produced little
book, and might well be suited to
being read after a dinner reinforced with
the kind of Australian wine one drinks
—except the story told at the end as
an exercise in writing without punctua-
tion: that must be read sober. Some
day, perhaps, one will make the
sacrifice.
Swilliam.
Australia at War
In Australia at Arms (Australian
War Memorial) Norman Bartlett has
collected studies and stories, some
from published books, some specially
written, of Australia’s contribution to
international stoush from the 1860’s
until World War 11.
The editor himself presents the
Maori War, with some reference to a
letter which Mr. Laver, quartermaster
of the 12th Regiment, former officer
of the N. S. Wales Volunteers, wrote
to the Sydney “Herald” about the
storming of Maori redoubts on the
Waikato; and the account of Aus-
tralia’s efforts in the Sudan is taken
from letters of W. J. Lambie, the same
paper’s correspondent. The first
c°ns c iou s ly literary study is from
J. H. M. Abbott’s “Tommy Cornstalk,
published in 1902, an account of the
advance on Johannesburg, a superb bit
of landscape-painting, with men, horses
and guns disposed in wide order; the
languid calm of the officers, the bring-
ing-up of a newfangled Maxim, all
reminiscent of a game of tin-soldiers. /
This formal, almost detached, view
of warfare can be seen to have changed
by the time cavalry makes an
appearance in World War II; there is
an unwonted urgency in Frank Dalby
Davison’s account of the ride .to “The
Wells of Beersheba , there are horse-
mpn HicmnnntinP and charsinn with
men dismounting anu Clldlguig vvuu
bayonets; there is more efficiency m
armaments —war is becoming grimmer.
And by this time flying is taking over
from riding the gaiety of war, as in
T. W. White’s account in “Guests of
the Unspeakable” of how he and Cap-
tain Yeats-Brown were captured after
landing in enemy territory to cut tele-
graph-lines to Baghdad; and this strain
is continued in David Campbell’s
account of a “Recco Over Rabaul”
and the surprise and annoyance occa-
sioned a philosopher at being wounded
for the first time, in the early days of
World War 11, so high up, among such
beautiful and placid scenery.
The Navy, too, always manages to
seem gay and gallant, whether it is
submarine AE2 beating the Turkish
minefields to play hide-and-seek in the
Sea of Marmora, as in H. G. Stoker’s
“Straws in the Wind,” or in the cruiser
Sydney’s duel with the Bartolomeo
Colleoni in George H. Johnston’s
“Grey Gladiator,” or J. E. Mac-
donnell’s account of the blasting of
Sebang; although there must have been
moments when being gay and gallant
came rather hard to Engineer-
Lieutenant F. O. Gillen when he had
to swim out from inside and under-
neath the overturned and submerging
cruiser Perth as recorded in Ronald
McKie’s “Proud Echo.”
Maybe the Timor commandos. had
their lighter moments, and it was some
satisfaction for a company to hold
off 2500 Japs for ten days, as B. J.
Callinan explains in “The August
Show on Timor”; but the experiences
of most front-line infantry make you
wonder how they ever smiled after-
wards, whether crawling into enemy
fire for so long that'one of them went
to sleep from weariness “At Bardia
and Derna” (Chester Wilmot and
Ralph Honner), or slithering 200yds.
along a vile sewer to “Escape From
Greece” (I. D, Welsh), or working an
ambulance at Tobruk (R. J. Ruther-
ford), or under fire shoulder-deep in
water at Gona, or crawling home
wounded from a patrol past searching
Japanese in the campaign on Komia-
tum Ridge (Ralph Honner; Frederick
Howard), or helping men and women
missionaries through mountainous
jungle in “The Nuns’ Patrol” (T. A. G.
Hungerford), or ambushed by Japanese
and commanded to abandon wounded
at “The Bridge at Park Sulong”
(Gilbert Mant), or aboard a Japanese
prison-ship (Hugh V. Clarke), or after
“The First Hours at Gallipoli”
(C. E. W. Bean).
Yet all these affairs had, some kind
of relief; of trees, of mountains, of
movement and in time. It is in the
four studies of the war in France; the
sea of mud, the duckboards, the tracks
and trenches along which the living
walked upon the dead —“The Ridge at
Pozieres” (E. J. Rule), “Winter on the
Somme” (G. D. Mitchell). “A Pillbox
East of Ypres” (J. Maxwell). '“Climax
at Amiens” (V. B. Portman)- 4-that the
infantry plumbs the depths, as perhaps
a few words on Pozieres will demon-
strate: —
Hastening down the stairway, I
found two of our officers seated
close together on a box in front of
a table, on which two or three
candles stuck in their own fat were
burning. Mental anguish was
stamped on their faces.
“Sir,” I said, “I have about forty
men up on top. We have no orders,
neither have we an officer. What
shall I do with them?”
I thought they would never answer
me. They appeared like men who
were waiting for something to
happen. The dull muffled thud of
shells bursting in the ground over-
head kept the flames of the candles
flickering.
“How are your men standing it,
sergeant?”
“They are feeling the strain a
little, sir.”
Another long pause.
“All right, sergeant, take your men
along the trench and attach them to
the company lying in support.”
The military command was absent,
and the voice spoke to me as a father
would to his son.
There is something about that scene
that Dante might have envied.
CANDLEBARK
Up from July’s cold, black bed
the seedling rose to breast the rain.
The sepia root, the crimson stem
lifted through sleet comparisons
to smoke, dove’s feather and wild-plum
skin.
These were the colors caught within
the leaf’s broad loop, the stalk’s fine
thread.
It was so small, it was so great
that fifty days were counted where
fifty autumns were foretold.
In one leaf the triple crown
appeared on a far, enamelled air.
Out of fierce futures of December
spread a scarlet and ochre stain,
and as on a flank of tawny mountain
fell slanting strokes of slate-blue rain . , .
It was so great, it was so small
that time might pass it, like that voice
across the paddock: “Nothing to find
or wait for here—nothing at all.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


lllllliillilil
m
?:W'¥
>:■:
f
> ■ i
ftmwwwii i’iiT^
:ra-s-ra>23
>C ' >^
6
.V «•
Cl
3®?
mrnm>
H
I
H
a
bss&
■
OX-y.
Kelvinator
re t 4T\> ~M H 1
J§ m / Ji m mm
* f|f f# Mi gg jgs §B| Mg
Bargain
MODELS '
225 at £146/10/'
245 at £166/-/'
275 at £lB2/'/'
465 at £195/10/'
485 at £225/'/'
That is ... my new Kelvinator from Anthony Horderns’. It has everything I want in a refrigerator .• *
streamlined cabinet with beautiful pastel interior, a deep freeze, rust-proof shelves on rollers, two big crispers,
automatic defrost, door shelves, and even an insulated butter compartment that stops butter becoming too hard . . .
yet it costs approximately id. a day to run. However, from my budget’s point of view, the most important thing about
the latest luxury Kelvinator is its new, lower price. Anthony Horderns’ gave me a wonderful
trade-in on my old sealed unit refrigerator, and I found their terms the easiest. From weekly
17'9
Kelvinator
SYDNEY
CENTRAL
Specialists


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 4, 1956
Vol, 77—No. 3960
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (.opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
A "GET-TOGETHER" YEAR
THE New Year dawns with the world divided
again between hope and fear.
Hope predominates for Australians. A propor-
tion of them have erased the words “fear” and
“caution” from their vocabularies, having been
almost persuaded by events over the last decade
that life is just one long Christmas Day, with wool
growing on the sheep in ever-abundant quantities,
pound-notes appearing in the pay-envelope in ever-
increasing wads, more horses running, more beer
flowing, and benign Governments ready to open
a window on a better world whenever present
standards pall.
It is a pretty picture, and a popular one, but
it is certainly not shared by all. There is some
impatience in certain quarters that Jeremiahs insist
on disturbing the serenity of the future by making
loud noises with H-bombs at a time when everybody
would prefer to think calmly about the latest sports-
model and the chances of Chase Me Charlie in the
Ashley Stakes. Distractions are shrugged-off, and
anybody who feels uneasy merely has to turn to
the pabulum provided by a great free press and
refresh his or her spirits with a glimpse at the latest
rendering of Signorina Lollobrigida’s figure or the
casualty-list of the day for the N. S. Wales
highways.
The daily press, indeed, is a great comfort to
the spirits in these days. It reassures those who are
moved by the forebodings of prophets and follows
the selfish trends of the on-with-the-dance classes
who are impatient at being reminded that Asia is
swiftly falling into the hands of the Communist
bloc and that the world-revolution moves closer and
closer to our north.
Every opportunity is taken to discount this
reality. The slightest pretence to disarm or to be
friendly on the part of Russia or China is heralded
with loud music; the assurances of Dr. Evatt that
the way to defend Australia is to dispose of our
major means of warding off an enemy are given the
boldest kind of display. The suggestion that there
should be frugality and that the national expendi-
ture on intoxicating liquor is higher than it ought to
be —being now more than the cost of defence —
is scouted as the product of Stiggins-like minds. The
idea that wool might fall further in price or that
other markets are shaky or that it would be well to
make ready for a national rainy day is shrugged
off, by a large and noisy section of the press and
other elements that make public opinion, as some-
thing about which it is unnecessary to think. If
things should come to pass as the prophets of gloom
suggest, then it will be easy to blame the Menzies-
Fadden Government and turn it to political account.
It has been custom throughout the ages to offer up
sacrifices to Olympus in adversity.
It is not, of course, altogether the fault of
Australians that they are optimists. Though it is
the historical fashion to paint our growth as a long
record of unexampled suffering and endurance by a
tough and unprecedentedly hardy people which has
survived only through having souls made of pure
courage enshrined in seasoned ironbark, the fact is
that Australian national growth to present standards
has been the easiest and most comfortable all round
in the history of mankind, even allowing that
earlier generations were nourished on shortages
and very hard work.
By 1805, when there were men alive who were
to live into the 20th century, Australia was a small
convict settlement of 7000 people, of whom 2000-
odd were actually convicts. By 1855 it was estab-
lished, with gold pouring out of its soil, the future
of wool-raising, an industry in which the capital
thus produced could be invested, with profit perman-
ently assured. Self-government for the colonies
had been won, the first steps to form a united Aus-
tralia were already being consummated.
A century later, if not a great country in the
world sense, the Cqmmonwealth is at least the most
comfortable on earth to live in. At the worst in its
earlier phases it suffered only the setbacks which
the rest of the civilised world at the moment was
suffering at the same time and in a greater degree.
In crisis it has not been the stage of tragedy, even
if in the last fifty years it has shared in the British
Commonwealth’s tragedies. Save for a few stray
shots, it has never seen war on its shores.
Today, only 167 years or so after its founda-
tion, it is greater, in population, in real wealth and
in potentialities, than the England of its foundation-
year. Its people are living under conditions which
are unimaginable in their ease and leisure to
three-fourths of modem peoples of the world; cer-
tainly to the whole of Asia, the whole of Dark
Africa, and to much of the Americas and Eastern
Europe. And there is an obsession that this must
go on. It is believed by many that no matter what
happens the present standard of living can be
not only maintained but somehow improved on by
reducing hours, by increasing wages, but at the same
time, by some alchemy, reducing prices; that we can
be kept in security, too, by paring down defences and
holding out the glad hand of welcome to peoples
who are armed to the teeth and who intend to
remain in that state with the definite objective of
overrunning the Western world.
The examples of history are available to
advertise the fatuity of this outlook, which produced
the Rome of Nero—all bread and sports, plenty for
all, work reserved for slaves and a vast complacency
which was more potent in the destruction of a
great Empire than any H-bomb could have been,
Nero’s short reign also proved how swift the fall of
a huge, indolent Empire can be.
Optimism about the future of the Common-
wealth is fully justified if it is linked with effort.
But the country has not been built to the current
stage of development at the pace of the Sydney
City Railway. It is at present carrying just about
as big a load of non-producing civil servants,
luxury-goods and loaf and go-slow as the fabric
will stand or its security permit
The job of keeping prosperity stable in Aus-
tralia is not an overwhelming one. A slightly
accelerated working-pace, an adjustment of wages
to meet world prices and a fair division of sacrifice
(as in the case of prosperity), a better spirit of
co-operation between employer and employee and
Government are all that are needed.
Indeed, with these essentials the Common-
wealth, with its isolation from the danger of
imminent attack without warning, its year-long
mild climate without the devastating winters of
Europe and North America, and its huge,
scarcely-touched mineral resources and living-spaces
should prove a magnet whose force the investors
of older lands cannot resist in the next couple of
decades. This more especially since the reorienta-
tion of trade-routes has given us a new central
position on the globe and endowed us with the
geographical attributes which made England a
great and rich nation.
If there is any resolution which Australians
might profitably make this New Year it is that
1956 should be a year of Get-together in which to
dig a grave for the “class-war” and institute the
same sort of industrial co-operation that has built
up the United States.
Report on the North
EVERY student of the Northern Territory, its
history and affairs, must be impressed with the
confidence it has inspired in its future prosperity.
It has been from the first a land of promise, and
believed to be rich in varied possibilities. Different
explanations may be given of the reasons why the
promise still remains unfulfilled and the possible
has not been translated into the actual; but of the
prevailing sentiment and estimate there can be no
question. Evidence to that effect is both diversified
and voluminous. It abounds alike in the statements
of tourists and in the more formal reports of visits
of inspection.
Few people will dispute the soundness of the
foregoing paragraph. It is not of “The Bulletin’s”
composing; it appeared in an Adelaide publication
50 years ago, though it could have been written
with as much truth yesterday. To illustrate the
attraction the Territory exercised on “men of ripe
experience and sober judgment” the writer quoted
the cases of two South Australian Cabinet Ministers.
In 1873 the Hon. Thomas Reynolds went to Darwin
(then known as Palmerston) on a visit of inspection.
He found things in a hopeless muddle, but liked
the place so much that he resigned his Ministerial
post to settle in the north. Ten years later one of
his successors, J. L. Parsons, also went north to
look and stayed to live; appointed Government
Resident, he administered the Territory from
1884 to 1890 and became one of its staunchest
advocates.
It was during Parsons’s regime that “The
Picturesque Atlas of Australasia” recorded —with
drawings by A. H. Fullwood and F. B. Schell to
support its statements —that
Experiments have conclusively proved that
sugar-cane, indigo, arrowroot yams, sweet
potatoes, custard-apples, jack-fruit, oranges, lemons,
and a great deal more, will thrive splendidly. Rice
can be produced to any extent in the fertile river-
bottoms The Government Resident declares
that the ill-success of agriculturists is attributable
'chiefly to selection of unsuitable land, wasteful
expenditure and bad management. Pastoral settle-
ment is continually increasing. Cattle- and horse-
breeding is established on the north coast and it
is believed that the central portion of the Territory
can carry thirty-millions of sheep. The mineral
treasures awaiting development are practically
inexhaustible. ,
The “Atlas” gave the white population of the
Territory in the ’eighties as about 2000. The
estimate must have been made on a hazy day; the
“Commonwealth Year Book” puts the figure for
1881 at 670. By 1911, when the Commonwealth
took over the Territory from South Australia, it
had only increased to 1730. At that time there
were 450,000 head of cattle in the Territory and
21,000 horses. The sheep still had a long way to go
to reach the figure prophesied by the “Atlas.”
There were 50,000 of them —which is 20,000 more
than there are today. Mineral-production in 1911
was valued at £60,000 —mostly gold and tin, though
there was some wolfram and a little copper. There
was no sign yet of uranium, though the “Atlas” a
quarter of a century earlier had given its imagina-
tion free rein in describing Rum Jungle, where it
found “a wayside hotel a veritable jungle.
Palms and creepers in rich profusion bower-
birds rich bright loam which will grow any-
thing Poett’s plantation coffee, cinchona
anthills hard as rock ” But obviously no
geiger-counters.
Hope and promise were still the guiding-stars
in 1911. Said the “Year Book”: “The spacious well-
grassed runs of the Territory are suitable for horse-
and cattle-breeding. It is anticipated that the cattle-
trade with the East will develop.”
And hope and promise are still evident in the
latest report of Territories Minister Paul Hasluck,
though for the most part it is a sober record of
work done or to be done. It does seem that since
the war Australia’s ugly duckling has at last begun
to make a few tentative moves towards swanhood.
At the census last year the white population was
found to be 16,452, an increase of 7336 since the
1947 census and considerably more than double the
prewar total. Of this number 2500 are school-
children, a fact which, coupled with a £500,000
housing-programme for the present year, gives a
sounder foundation for hopes than most past
optimism has been based on. The cattle popula-
tion, after recovering from drought losses of 1952,
is now back to the million-mark, with an annual
turnoff of 125,000, valued at about £2,500,000.
There is an echo of 1911 in Mr. Hasluck’s
remark that “the export trade in live cattle to the
Philippines has recommenced' and six shipments
totalling 3600 head are scheduled for the current
season.” Government assistance to the beef-
industiy includes the subsidising of transport-costs
on stud-stock brought into the Territory; long-term
loans for bore-sinking; guarantee of bank-loans for
property-improvement; veterinary research —exten-
sions to the Animal Research Institute at Alice
Springs will cost £41,000 this year; provision of
watering-points on stock-routes; investigation of
animal-husbandry problems.
One project is the improvement of 50 square
miles of so-called desert country on which an
experimental herd will be grazed. The cost of
this project is to be committed in 1955-6, at
£18,700. The object is to determine whether
about 100,000 square miles of similar country may
be brought into pastoral use.
In agriculture the Territory has not yet
redeemed the many promises made in its name. It
supplies its own population with fruit and vege-
tables, but export-crops still lie in the future. Twelve
months ago there was talk of negotiations with an
American group for “a pilot-venture to test the
prospects of large-scale rice-growing in the sub-
coastal plains,” with a view to building-up an
export-trade with Asia. It is not mentioned in the
current report, though the Administration is operat-
ing “an experiment-farm at the Katherine, two
rice-research stations in the Adelaide River area, a
quarantine-station for the introduction of rice-seed
from overseas and a mobile group which currently
is conducting trials at several centres in the
Katherine-Darwin region. Rice, peanuts, grain-
sorghum, pineapples, tobacco and fodder species
are under investigation.” Agricultural research will
absorb £41,500 this year and £30,000 is provided
for loans to agriculturists.
Mineral-production (excluding uranium) rose
to a record figure in 1954-55 at £1,500,000.
Development of copper-mining at Tennant Creek
brought copper into second-place—-gold still first —
in value of production. Uranium is excluded from
the figures, though its mining and extraction at
Rum Jungle is the most important post-war develop-
ment in the Territory; it employs 450 men and
explains the rise of a new township, Batchelor,
housing 700 people.'
Although Territories Minister Hasluck shows
no sign of following the example of Reynolds and
Parsons, he, like them, is a believer in the future
of the Territory. He has one big advantage over
his predecessors in that he is not finding it quite so
difficult to squeeze money out of the Treasury —the
Estimates for 1955-56 provide for £6,026,000.
International politics have made it apparent that
the development of our northern province can no
longer be treated as the dream or hobby of a
Minister caught under a tropic spell. It is a
necessity which we neglect at our peril.


NOT IDENTICAL TWINS
“One’s a bouncing boy, but it looks as though we’ll have to keep the other in a humidicrib for the next three yean.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canberra and the Cabinet
The result of the elections is now pretty
clear. After July Senate decisions look
like being subject to the Anti-Communist
“Labor” vote which will constitute the
balance of power.
In the House of Representatives the
picture will have changed materially from
that of June, 1954; changed so disas-
trously for a “Labor” £arty then on the
“up” and looking forward confidently
:o office in 1957, or even before, if it
:ould get control of the Senate this year,
is it almost certainly would have done
nad the trend continued.
The party’s leader now goes back into
the House by the narrowest of majorities
after a photo-finish in his own electorate,
with the prestige of both himself and the
party wrecked. Its divisions, so evident
before the December poll, are accentu-
ated to a point at which it seems im-
possible that the warring factions can
long continue to live together.
Looked at from a numerical viewpoint
the result of the poll has been a catas-
trophe for “Labor.” The Government
can reckon on having 75 members on its
main and cross-bench, against 64 in the
last Parliament. Labor will have 47.
The seven Anti-Communists have all
lost their seats, two of them to the
Government candidates, and “Labor”
lost nine seats to the Government, failing
to win the new seat of Sturt in S.A.
Worse, it has lost, since Dr. Evatt dragged
out his Red-herring, during and after
the Petrov inquiry, a body of ability which
would have formed much of the staple
of its next Cabinet—Nelson Lemmon,
Drakeford, Burke, Bourke and Joshua
(and possibly Keon) would have been in
any “Labor” Ministry formed in the next
three years if the party had remained
intact.
It is not all roses for the Government.
It has lost the help of the Anti-Com-
munists, who last session took over all
its more unpleasant tasks of criticism
and were ready to go to lengths in
attack on the Opposition which were
beyond the range of the Government
parties. The Anti-Communists knew
everything that had gone on in caucus
for years, and Dr. Evatt can congratulate
himself that they were removed before
they really found time and opportunity
to air their knowledge.
Moreover, the Government party has
its own internal problems. There is pres-
sure from all quarters relative to the for-
mation of the new Ministry. There is
particularly a school of thought in favor
of elected Ministries; but that is a
matter in which the agitators are un-
likely to achieve success. With the
example of “Labor” before them, the
leaders of the Government will certainly
be wise if they retain the present system,
which is the only one proved to be effec-
tively workable under the British Consti-
tutional system, and the only one which
can produce a Cabinet in which harmony
and discipline can be maintained per-
manently.
A more important question is the re-
constitution of the Cabinet to make it
more workable. A Ministry of the present
size is unwieldy as a committee or board
of directors, and the present arrangement
under which there is a Prime Minister’s
Cabinet committee of senior Ministers,
dealing with policy, and a committee
headed by Sir Eric Harrison, Leader of
the House, handling administrative
matters, does not go far enough, though
it has been successful as far as it goes.
There is opinion in favor of following
the British system under which the
Ministry is divided into a Cabinet, with
a body of Ministers not in the Cabinet.
There is a great deal to be said for
this system both from the point of view
of wieldiness in operation and training
of junior Ministers for higher posts
through a period in which they gain ex-
perience without being able to exert too
full an influence on policy.
It wouldn’t matter if the non-Cabinet
section of the Ministry were enlarged
slightly by the addition of promising
back-benchers who could act as assist-
ants in the departments like the Treasury,
Post Office and Commerce and Agricul-
ture in which the senior incumbents are
normally overworked and have little
chance to give attention to internal de-
partmental administrative policy. It
would be better, even at some added
expense, to have a few more junior
Ministers than to continue the Constitu-
tionally doubtful system of under-secre.-
taries which has proved to be a dead horse
from the beginning.
Parliament will meet on February 15.
Biliy Sheehan's Nepotism
The controversy which developed be-
tween Mr. Sheahan, N. S. Wales
Attorney-General, anti one of his magis-
trates is an illuminating example of how
justice is administered in N. S. Wales
under “Labor” Governments and must
add to the general wondering about
what really goes on among members of
the Cahill Cabinet.
Mr. Finlay, S.M., a magistrate sitting
at Adelong on November 25, accused the
Attorney-General of having called for
the papers in a case of negligent driving,
preventing the hearing from coming on.
He said that it was not the first time
this sort of thing had happened. Mr.
Sheahan, without calling on the S.M. for
an explanation, attacked him publicly in
his usual style. Mr. Finlay replied in
Tumut Police Court on December 21
that a summons for speeding against Mr.
Sheahan’s nephew had been withdrawn.
The Public Service Board was asked to
inquire, but Mr. Morton, Leader of the
Opposition, has properly demanded a
judicial inquiry, to which demand
Mr. Sheahan has replied naively:
It is unfortunate that I have 2000
relatives in my electorate. It would be a
poor day for democracy if I were not
able to make representations for one of
them for a Traffic Act breach. I made
representations on behalf of my nephew,
as no doubt Mr. Morton has for many of
his constituents in the same type of case,
as every other member of Parliament does.
If the Premier decides on an independent
inquiry it is O.K. with me. I have no-
thing: to fear about this matter.
Mr. Sheahan professes to be very much
annoyed that the magistrate accused him
of Tammany methods and added: “I sup-
pose he realises the implications of Tam-
many—involving gangsterism, bribery
and corruption There is nothing
wrong with making representations ana
leaving it to the Police Department in its
wisdom to deal with the matter.”
What is really needed is a judicial in-
quiry into the whole outlook of the Gov-
ernment on this matter. Does it really
believe it is correct for politicians to
exert influence through representations
to the police by M.P.s or M.L.A.S while
a case is sub judice through the issue of
proceedings? And is it, in particular,
in such cases right and ethical for the
Attorney-General, the very centre of the
administration of justice, to delay the
hearing of a case against his nephew and
to question the line of action which the
police in their duty have believed to be
the right one?
Every defendant has a right to make
representations either to the police who
are prosecuting him or to the court. But
if members of Parliament lend them-
selves to this sort of thing, it seems about
time that they were brought up with a
round turn.
As for Mr. Sheahan, if his words mean
what they seem to mean, a judicial
tribunal might well be asked whether it
is desirable that a man of his viewpoint
should hold Cabinet rank.
A few years ago his admissions would
have brought about his suspension from
the Ministry at his own request—or else —
while the whole matter was sifted.
But “other times, other manners.”
-o
Evattism and "Labor" Policy
At the declaration of the poll in Hind-
marsh (S.A.) C. R. Cameron, who re-
tained the seat for “Labor” rather easily
in a three-cornered contest with a
Liberal and an Anti-Communist “Labor”
candidate, claimed that it was common
knowledge that “a well-known Liberal
member of the House of Assembly had
played a prominent part in the formation
of the Anti-Communist Labor party,”
and that the announcement by the presi-
dent of the party that it would contest
at the State election all seats held by
Labor proved that it was “not only
opposed to Evattism, but to O’Halloran-
ism as well.”
This suggestion that the Joshuaites
are merely Libs, dressed-up may sound
attractive to those who can’t believe that
anyone could possibly leave the “Labor”
party and still be an honest man, but it
isn’t very convincing. The Victorian
Federal members who founded the new
party had a lifetime of A.L.P. member-
ship behind them and were not likely to
be seduced away from their allegiance by
Liberal blandishments. In South Aus-
tralia the viewpoint represented by the
Joshua-Keon group in Victoria has no
spokesmen in the executive, but it must
exist, as it admittedly does in New South
Wales and Queensland.
As to the decision of the Anti-Corns, to
run candidates at the South Australian
elections showing that the party is
opposed to O’Halloranism as well as
Evattism, Mr. Cameron is just playing
with words. To a true “Labor” man
there is no such thing as Evattism or
O’Halloranism; there is only “Labor”
policy. If Cameron himself were asked
the straight question “Do you believe in
Evattism?” he would almost certainly
reply that he believed in the policy of
the “Labor” party.
The latest statement of that policy was
made at the Hobart conference last
February, and it included “No troops for
Malaya.” This policy is not accepted by
the Anti-Communist “Labor” party, but
it is accepted by the South Australian
executive of the A.L.P. and is binding
on all its members, including Opposition-
leader O’Halloran and his followers. It
is no use saying that State “Labor” and
Federal “Labor” are two different things.
Federal “Labor” policy is determined by
a conference consisting of delegates from
all the States; in between conferences
it is interpreted by the Federal executive,
which again consists of representatives of
the States. What may be labelled Evatt-
ism is for the time being official “Labor”
policy. It exists; O’Halloranism doesn’t.
Cabinet-making Caution
“In the ACT” : There is plenty of
good timber available for the new
Federal Cabinet the Prime Minister is
about to pick, but in spite of the prompt-
ings of newspaper-commentators and
other equally-informed observers it can
be guessed that Mr. Menzies will retain
a majority of the team who have mostly
held portfolios during the last six years.
Even if the Prime Minister were more
ruthless than his mellowing years suggest,
he would hesitate before making drastic
changes, principally because most of the
Ministers have done a competent and
honest job, even if there has been little
of the spectacular about the administra-
tion of departments. It would be foolish
to lose the benefit of good experience
merely for the sake of making changes,
or of lowering the average age of Cabinet
by a few years. In addition, as every poli-
tician knows, a man displaced from office
can always become a focus of sour in-
fection, even if he seems unlikely to
threaten any real damage. There is also
the necessity for placating the States,
especially the “outer” ones, by giving them
representation in Cabinet, even if more
able men from inner States are left on
the back-benches.
The crowded back-benches of this
Parliament, of course, must include many
disappointed hopefuls who were first
elected in 1949, and whose talents have
not been put to the fullest use. Few of
them have known the frustrations of
Opposition, and none of them shows any
sympathy when Ministers bemoan the
long hours and heavy responsibilities of
office. 4
These men are entitled to ask what
their prospects are of service in some
form or other, beyond votes and occa-
sional speeches in the House. Mr. Menzies
is acutely conscious of this problem, and
he may have some thoughts to offer on
it. He may also be thinking of some
scheme of making retirement easier for
Ministers, apart from the rather dubious
method of sending them to diplomatic or
other posts overseas. Diplomacy today
is a career job demanding energy and
training, and it should not be allowed
to become a refuge for tired and retired
politicians.
All these problems face the Prime
Minister when he sits down with a list
on one side of the departments—includ-
ing, it is hoped, some revision in Trade
and Customs, Commerce and Agriculture
and National Development designed to
give better service in trade and expansion
—and a list of the members of the Gov-
ernment parties on the other. It should
be possible for him to put two or three
names against each portfolio, and then
to make his selection in the light of all
known factors in each individual case.
The method need not lead to spectacular
changes or omissions. It should lead to
good administration, and to as little dis-
appointment as possible for party-mem-
bers and for the Australian voters who
have shown such substantial and continu-
ing faith in the Government.
The Diligent Bakers
Sydney authorities are having a hard
time with the spread of a desire to be dili-
gent and industrious, and almost every
day there is some new regulation for
checking it.
Fresh elements of difficulty' have
come with the introduction of New
Australians who will go to any length,
it seems, to transgress the law. They
are even prepared to work, strange and
terrible as it seems.
The Law has spent a good deal of
the Christmas holidays dealing with one
of their “crime-waves” which consists
in transgressing the Bread Industries Act,
an inspiration of the unions and a monu-
ment to “Labor” Governments. The
Act provides that no bread shall be
baked before 5.30 a.m.
It doesn’t matter that when bread is
baked after that time it is served to the
consumer hot and oftep doughy, any
more than it matters that zoning makes
it impossible for bakers to compete, and
for housewives to get a bread which
would be called bread in any city except
Sydney. About half Sydney* buys its
bread in special shops because it can’t
digest the stuff which zoned bakeries
with monopolies of rounds wish on it
on the take-it-or-leave-it principle.
The curious thing is that, no matter
what the Law has done so far, it cannot
persuade newly-come foreigners that it
is wrong to work at the ovens before
5.30 a.m. As one example of
what is going on in the underworld of
baking, two inspectors visiting a
bakery at Rose Bay, Sydney, “saw bread
being taken from the ovens at 1.40 a.m.
on August 25.” The general-manager
of the company told the inspec-
tors, it was reported, that he had
begun work at midnight and that other
employees had started at 1 a.m. In vain
was it pleaded that they were installing
a new oven and thought they had the
privilege—granted, they said, to other
bakers in the circumstances—of starting
early.
They were hauled sternly before the
Beak, no doubt wondering why it
is a crime to work at producing some-
thing in the early hours, while it is
legal and commendable for inspectors
to work at catching somebody producing
at the same hours. The company was
fined £l5. The unfortunate employees,
five of them, were each mulcted of £5.
The First Offenders Act doesn’t apply.
There have been other instances which
show that unless some steps are taken the
habits of these foreigners will spread
to Australians. Bakers might even begin
to demand that they be allowed to bake
while the pubs are still open, or ask for
the same immunity from the Law as the
suburban two-up schools and s.-p.
betting-shops.
"Peace" in 1956
With the Congress of the Communist
Party of Russia meeting in February it
is certain that 1956 will be a year of
turmoil in Asiatic, and consequently
Pacific Ocean, affairs.
Already the heat is on. A vast
“peace”-propaganda campaign is getting
under way, with most of the gullible
cheap press of the West ready to play
the enemy game. The manifestations
are spreading like a plague, and the
objectives are clear from the speeches of
Khrushchev and Bulganin on their return
to Moscow.
Khrushchev, who is the dominant
figure in Russia today, said that during
the visits to India, Burma and
Afghanistan:
We have been exposing: the policy of
colonialism that has retarded the develop-
ment of these lands, and we shall always
expose it, which is to the liking of the
people of these countries. The colonial
system has gone bankrupt, and there is
no return to it now.... The Indians are
our friends. That, together with China
and the Soviet Union, makes us an un-
breakable force, which bears out Jjenin’s
words.
Bulganin sneered at the Western press,
and declared that the fraternal treatment
he and his companion had received
“testified to the support of Asian
countries for Soviet policy.”
The meeting of the Supreme Soviet
was delayed for a day or so while the
travellers got their bearings. And amid
loud approving noises from the press
of capitalist countries it was announced
that the military Budget would be cut
10 per cent.
It is symptomatic of the one-sided
reporting of these matters that the same
Western press, especially that of Aus-
tralia, outside the United Kingdom,
scarcely devoted a line to the fact that
the British Government had announced
that “the conception that it would be
possible to send from these islands in
global war 10 or 12 fully-equipped
reserve divisions in time of war was
completely unrealistic,” and that it had
been decided that “only two Territorial
divisions will remain organised at full
scale, together with supporting troops
to meet Nato requirements.” The rest
will be organised in a way which will
{Continued on next page)


For any electoral comment in this issue
requiring signature, David Adams, of 252
George-street, Sydney, is responsible.
make them available only for home
defence and for keeping the wheels of
industry turning.
This is a far greater contribution
towards peace than the Russian cut of
.10 per cent.
One Sydney newspaper during the
week gave out one of its inane ques-
tionnaires to casually-met persons in the
street as to whether the U.S.S.R. should
be allowed to re-establish its Embassy
in Canberra.
Apart from the fact that it was unlikely
that any of those questioned had the
slightest knowledge of what was involved,
the impression was ladled out in the
questions that the Soviet Union Embassy
had been expelled from the Common-
wealth and its members prevented from
remaining here.
The real fact, of course, is that the
Embassy was withdrawn hurriedly and
in panic before the facts about its opera-
tions came out, and that the members
of the Australian Embassy in Moscow
were virtually held as hostages until
the diplomats and one of their spies
not covered by diplomatic immunity
were safely out of the country. The
Commonwealth was actually eager that
the Russians should remain during the
Petrov inquiry. „
There is little question that if the
Soviet Union applies for its Embassy
to be reinstated, it will be reinstated,
provided it agrees that Australian repre-
sentation shall be renewed, and the
Commonwealth is satisfied that there
will be no spy-ring.
Education of the Australian public—
not to mention the Australian press—is
badly needed in these matters. The
Communists and their fellow-travellers
at present are doing all the educating.
POLITICAL POINTS
The enigmatic Dr. Coombs has been
reappointed governor of the Common-
wealth Bank for another seven years.
And so the political riddle of the central-
bank-cnm-trading-bank remains a riddle.
• *
A press campaign has begun in Sydney
in favor of the use of the lash on some
of the young thugs who are terrorising
the city and suburbs. It might have
been more salutary if a little lash had
been doled out to the type of newspapers
which have pppularised the cults of the
bodgie and the widgie and which prove,
by their columns, that the most news-
worthy features of daily life are crime,
accident and nakedness. They are largely
responsible for the education of the un-
strung generation which has lost its
respect for the law.
• •
Apparently the Indian press doesn’t
like the White Australia policy. A report
that Australia would appreciate being in-
vited to the next African-Asian conference
has provoked comment from both the
“Times of India” and the “Free Press
Journal.” The latter accused Australia
of “practising racial discrimination at
its source” and of a “voting record in the
United Nations which places it in the
camp of the colonial Powers.” “Times of
India” said that Australia had only to
study its record to find that its policy is
by no means calculated to win the
trust and friendship of its Asian neigh-
bors.
With regard to India, Australia has
followed a policy pretty much of mind-
ing its own business. Its White Australia
policy is simply based on the fact that
it wants Australia to belong to the Aus-
tralians, and it doesn’t want to become
a colony of India or any other Asian or
European country. What has happened
to Malaya as a result of Chinese immigra-
tion is evidence enough of how the over-
crowded countries of Asia swamp those
with a smaller population as soon as
Europeans develop trade and industry in
those areas. If British influence dis-
appears entirely from Malaya, it certainly
won’t be the Malayans who will run the
country.
India has made it clear enough that it
wants to run its own country in its own
way. Australia wants to do the same.
The reasons it discriminates against
Asians in its immigration policy are
largely economic—an open-door immi-
gration policy would attract Asians on
a scale out of all proportion to the present
inflow from Europe or the United States.
Asian domination of the country would
follow.
It is quite possible that Australia would
be out of place at any Asian-African con-
ference. That is certainly up to the Asian
and African countries to decide. It’s their
show, and if they are going to gladhand
Mao and Chou En-lai, Australia would
be hardly inclined to do the same. Nor
would Australia be likely to side with
Indonesia in the dispute over western
New Guinea.
In all the circumstances, Australia’s
approach to the Asian-African powwows
should be extremely tactful. If we’re not
wanted—well, that’s that. We have no
kick coming.
• •
The Romans had a word for it—
nepotism.
• • i
“Peace” talks with the Chinese Com-
munist leaders in Malaya failed, as they
were bound to fail, and terrorists having
ambushed police on December 29, on
New Year’s Day Australian troops were
in action against them. The bandits de-
manded, in effect, that they should be
allowed to transfer their underground
terrorism into the open, and that the only
brake qn their activities, the British Com-
monwealth defence forces, should be re-
moved. Dr. Evatt please note that the
Malayan Government firmly opposed the
move.
• •
Brimblecombe came home the winner
by 719 votes when preferences were
counted in the Maranoa poll, the last one
outstanding for the Reps, in the Federal
election, and a “Labor” plan was foiled
to win the seat for a well-to-do Indepen-
dent who was ready to play in order to
score off his enemy, Fadden. Final
figures: Brimblecombe, 17,579 ; Russell,
16,860.
• •
Senator John A. McCallum: “In the
past six years the Senate has increased in
stature and it will continue to increase
in stature.” If he means that it is loom-
ing larger and larger as a sprag in the
wheels of government, how right he is!
• •
Lottery-results bring odd stories of
human interest. A recent win in an
N.S.W. super State Lottery bared the fact
that a Customs-agent in Sydney had dis-
tributed a large number of lottery-tickets
at Christmas-time to friends, including
members of the Customs Department
staff. One of these won £12,000, and at
once offered his Customs-agent benefac-
tor £4500.
• •
In one day after the Christmas holi-
days Sydney was 3250 men short on the
waterfront when there were 26 overseas
SAME CURRENCY
and 11 inter-State ships in the port.
Some large ships were without wharf-
labor at all. The reason? “Many
wharfies have taken their annual leave
over the Christmas-New Year season,
irrespective of public convenience.” Of
course, any of the balance who con-
descend to try to make up the leeway
will have to be paid overtime. That is
part of the union’s Christmas ramp.
• •
With the death of Neal Macrossan,
Chief Justice of Queensland since 1946,
the Queensland Government is faced with
the need to appoint a successor. The
choice seems likely to fall on Mansfield,
J., son of a former District Court Judge,
who is Senior Puisne Judge of the
Supreme Court. 'He acted as Chief Jus-
tice in 1950 and was Chief Australian
Prosecutor, International Military Tri-
bunal for the Far East, in 1946. He is
53, and has been a judge since he was
38.
• •
Party-meetings of the Liberal and
Country parties will be held in Canberra
on January 6 and the “Labor” caucus
will meet somewhere about the same
date. The new Cabinet will probably be
announced on January 11 and Parliament
will open for a short session on Febru-
ary 15.
• •
Four South Australian M.P.s said
good-bye to active politics when the
Playford Parliament closed down for
Christmas ; they won’t be nominating for
the election to be held early this year.
Sir George Jenkins was a member of the
Assembly from 1918, with one gap of
three years in the ’twenties; 15 years a
Minister, holding various portfolios. A.
A. Hoare also had a long career in poli-
tics —12 years as a “Labor” Senator and
a similar period in the S.A. Legislative
Council. H. D. Michael was Liberal
member for Light and E. H. McAlees
“Labor” member for Wallaroo.
• •
Dougherty, of the A.W.U., described
as “exaggerated” a report that workers
on the Snowy Mountains project were
gambling to excess. “It is not fair to
malign a lot of hard workers in this
manner,” he added. Malign them? It s
news to hear that any section of the
“Labor” party resents accusations of
gambling. Most people have come to
regard gambling as an unofficial plank
of the A.L.P. platform. It takes prece-
dence over industrial transport when
punters’ cars block the Hume Highway
near Liverpool (N.S.W.) every time there’s
a race-meeting at Warwick Farm. If the
Cahill Government in N.S.W. hadn’t
wanted Warwick Farm reopened it is
doubtful whether the bridge over Cab-
ramatta Creek would be finished even
now. As it is, the structure took longer
to complete than the Sydney Harbor
Bridge.
• •
The Polar motorship Kista Dan left
Melbourne on December 28 for Aatarc-
tica. It will land a relief-party at Maw-
son. So far there have been no reports
of any political stowaways on board.
• e
Victorian landlords, since January 1,
have been entitled to ask their tenants
for an increase in rent up to 25 p.c.
greater than the rent payable 15 years
ago. At December 31, 1940, when rents
were pegged, the basic wage was a little
over £4 a week. It is now over £l2 a
week. According to Frank Foy, secre-
tary of the Real Estate Institute of Vic-
toria, “it is the first relief the majority
of landlords have had for 15 years.”
More than 175,000 dwellings will be
affected, and the average increase will be
no more than ss. 6d. a week, it is esti-
mated. Where premises were not in
existence, or not let, in 1940, but were
let before Dec. 31, 1950, the permitted
increase is 25 p.c. on the first rent. Where
rents have been increased by the Fair
Rents Board to more than 25 p.c. above
the 1940 figure, the landlord has to apply
for any further increase.
“Fair rents” since World War II started
have usually been so unfair that land-
lords have not had the slightest encour-
agement to build new houses for rent.
Governments having failed to fill the gap,
and only a percentage of the population
being thrifty enough to build their own
homes (not to mention the high cost of
building under present industrial condi-
tions), the scarcity of houses and flats
to let grows more acute each year.
• • •
The reconstituted Air Ceylon, in which
the Ceylonese Government, with 51 per
cent, of the shares, is now in partnership
with the Dutch K.L.M. airline (which
has replaced Australian National Air-
ways), will consider this year the pur-
chase of modern aircraft. At present the
corporation will charter K.L.M. planes
for services between Ceylon and Europe.
There is no early prospect of any service
to Australia.
• •
“In the ACT”: If Admiral Byrd’s
“deep-freeze” idea, the planting of pre-
sent food-surpluses in the Antarctic,
there to lie refrigerated for generations
until posterity can make use of them, is
found practicable, Australia may be able
to play a major part in the organising of
the scheme. It is curious that the idea is
being considered at the same time as a
major move to expand our tropical food-
production, both in Australia and in New
Guinea. Association with the Dutch in
West New Guinea in schemes for pro-
moting agricultural output in New
Guinea may lead to important develop-
ments shortly, including self-sufficiency
for New Guinea in rice. Then, maybe,
the ricegrowers of the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Area will have to send their
product to the South Pole, to await the
demands of the increasing millions close
at hand to our north.
r
• •
“Stromlo”: With Mountbatten discus-
sing the possibility of a streamlined
comprising ships carrying guided-
missiles, it is appropriate that Britain is
also announcing spectacular research in
the design of missiles travelling under
water. Water-tunnels have already been
built, as well as a tank for study of mis-
siles from the air entering the water.
Observation-chambers are provided for
high-speed photography, and the Admir-
alty says modestly that the underwater
view of models speeding past the windows
at speeds up to 100 knots “is, to say the
least, impressive.”
• •
The A.W.U. is making another attempt
this month to throw the arbitration
system over in favor of collective bar-
gaining and conciliation. The matter will
be dealt with at the national convention
opening in Sydney on January 23. A
ballot of members rejected a similar pro-
posal a couple of decades ago, but the
atmosphere has changed since. From
the community’s viewpoint, the desir-
ability of the scheme depends on whether
the A.W.U. means collective bargaining
when it says so, or merely intends to
introduce a pressure-group plan backed
by strike-threats and go-slow under that
name. Its threats following the reduc-
tion of the shearers’ wage to accord with
wool-prices in Queensland suggest the
latter method : in fact, the Thornton-
plan brought from Moscow during the
war.


Society
"AND IT'S" PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
A RECENT issue of an English maga-
zine featured a “Quiz for Parents”
anent the translation of slangology
favored by teenagers. “Let’s slink, snake,”
and “Come on, worm, let’s wiggle” have
displaced “Say, lend me your frame for
this creep,” and “Hip it with me, Honey?”
—there can hardly be any males out-
“Hm-m-m! I think you must have been laughing
when I took the impression."
dated enough to ask: “May I have the
pleasure of this dance?” Slang seems to
have re-entered an epoch in which jol-
lity is considered a major crime, as in
the ’twenties, when the bright, but so-
bored, young things outvied one another
in deprecation. Everything was “shy-
making,” “shame-making,” or “positively
Edwardian.” Now it’s “Dig that crazy
drip,” “Who’s died over there?” and
“Keep crawling, maggot.” Well, perhaps
it is no more revolting than “Tophole
show, old girl,” or “Ripping do," old
sport,” and no more unintelligible than
“Prang that ropey type!”—“Narumee.”
“Geep”: How many, other than
bankers, know that five-bob’s-worth «of
our silver currency is a pretty accurate
substitute for a lost avoirdupois-ounce
weight? You can make it up how you
like, of trays, zacks and deeners, or two-
bobs and small change. The answer’s
the same.
“Doynest”: We had planned to adver-
tise my youngster’s boy-size bike for
sale the weekend before Christmas and
put the proceeds towards a larger
machine, but left it too late to get an
ad. in Saturday’s paper. My wife
scanned the classified columns: dozens
of pushbikes offered for sale; nobody
wanting to buy one. Then she had a
brainwave. ‘TIL ring up someone adver-
tising one like ours,” she announced,
“and ask them if they’ve sold it.” I
didn’t get the strength of it at all, until
I heard Mrs. D. saying: “So you’ve
sold your bike? That’s all right—l
wonder if you’d be kind enough to give
anyone else who calls our phone-num-
ber?” It worked; several tardy buyers
were passed on to us, and we made our
sale. It’s the first and only instance I’ve
struck of a really fcee ad.
♦!+
“Metralia”: Singer Mel Torme was
here described as “the velvet fog.”
“Time” magazine shortened him to
“wheezy.”
♦♦♦ ♦> *i*
“Tom Trout” (London): An oddity
that continues to tickle my curiosity aftgr
several years’ residence over here is the
frequent mention in English newspapers
of two highly-placed Australians not
similarly named in Australian journals—
—Mr. Robert Menzies and Dr. Herbert
Evatt. What distinction of the national
psyches is hinted at in this transmogrifi-
cation of R. G. and H. V.? Are the bare
initials too stark for these lush isles, too
like, for comfort, the spiked cattle-
skeletons in a Sidney Nolan painting of
the Centralian desert, while full Christian-
names, like their own Winston and
Clement and Aneurin, plop as gently on
the English consciousness as drizzle on
Kentish turf? Some reason there must
be, too, for Americans seeking comfort
in the short pause of a central initial, as
in Harry S. Truman, where the “S.”
stands, confident and irremovable, even
though the ex-President has himself con-
fessed it stands fo# absolutely nothing.
“Cauboy”: An Australian film has got
into the classics by being included in the
archives of the British Film Institute. It
is “Kid Stakes,” made in 1927, the earliest
child-film on record and the last silent-
film to be made in Australia. It was
based on “Fatty Finn,” the comic-strip
created by Syd Nicholls, and the script
was written by Tal Ordell.
“Four Threes”: Railway history has
just been made with the delivery of a
diesel-loco, from N.S.W. to S.A. It
traversed three States under its own
power and paid for expenses by hauling
a load all the way. For the N.S.W.-Vic.
gauge-difference the bogies were changed
at Albury, enabling the diesel to cover
the other 700 miles without further
alteration. At 1800 h.p. the loco, ironed-
out the heaviest grades and kept to
schedule easily. It could be a good
omen for an improvement that inter-State
travel badly needs; a non-stop express-
train from Melbourne to Adelaide.
<£♦
“Eseven”: I was telephoned by a
P.M.G. official who said that he had
intercepted a second-class airmail pack-
age of mine, containing a manuscript and
international reply-coupons for its (pos-
sible) return. He informed me, with
"Take it back — I’ve got enough to keep clean already.”
stern politeness, that it was against regu-
lations for “anything of value to be en-
closed unless sent first-class airmail.” I
pleaded ignorance, and he courteously
assured me that my MS. would not be
delayed; he would remove the coupons,
which I could collect at my convenience,
and forward under separate cover at an
extra cost of 2s. Have since discovered
that this does not apply elsewhere, proved
by this comment in a letter from the
editor of a South African magazine: “We
cannot understand the ruling of your
Post Office. Writers from the four cor-
ners of the world send us manuscripts
with coupons ” It would be an
Olympian gesture for the P.M.G.’s De-
partment to relax the ban in favor of
sterling-seeking scribes —haven’t too
many tired of coping with the difficulties
of exporting their work, and therefore
exported themselves?
♦> ♦>
“Baggyduds”: Batting-out time with
the Australian Garrison Force in Rabaul,
I noticed one of our daily Jap details
smiling expansively. “What’s he got to
smile about?” I asked. Someone said the
Jap had drawn the right marble and was
due to return home that night on one of
the Jap ships waiting in the harbor. Call-
ing the Jap over, I said, “Look ’ere, you
dog-faced bar-steward, when you get
back to Japan tell all those other dog-
faced bar-stewards not to start any more
wars!” He bowed low and, looking at
me with a twinkle in his eyes, said, “Sir,
I shall convey those very worthy senti-
ments to my fellow-countrymen and can
assure you that they will fall upon recep-
tive ears and be implemented with en-
thusiasm ! ” He saluted and marched
away with a minor victory for Japan.
♦> ❖
“Melbn”: One of the newly-rich left
her home in Toorak to buy a tin of
plastic to fill a hole in the wall of her
sitting-room. On the way, chance took
her to an art-exhibition; so she bought
a picture for five-guineas to serve instead
of the plastic. Her husband showed it to
a friend a few days later and the friend
said, “Why, it’s a McSnoddle; I’ll give
you twenty-guineas for it.” Her husband
is now an enthusiastic collector and, if
he keeps on at his present rate, will soon
have the largest collection of contem-
porary paintings in the city.
♦♦♦ *!♦
“Mac What”: Not only do newspapers
delight in putting an age-label on
their victims (“Hist.,” B. 2/11/’55), but
they also find it necessary, in many cases,
to add “pensioner.” Why not be
thorough? I’m sure we’d all like to
know that “on the platform with Mr. U.
Dumbell, M.L.A., £4500-£5OOO bracket,
who opened the fete, were the vicar, the
Rev. Percy Bole, M.A., 8.D., £6OO-£650
bracket, the chairman of the Building
Committee, Mr. Isaac Skinflint, of the
well-known firm of Cheesepare and Skin-
flint, £7500-£BOOO bracket (subject to con-
firmation by Taxation Department
officials who are investigating).”
■ijt
“Viper”: Latest indication of high
U.S. living-standards is the advent of a
mink toothbrush. May they next invest
with a touch of romance some other»
humble appurtenances: let Tiffany’s sell
platinum egg-beaters and solid-gold gas-
stoves.
♦♦♦ +>
“Maitri”: This yarn is denied by a
professor at. the medical school of one
of our universities to whose lot it fell
to conduct the viva voce portion of the
exams, for “borderline” students passed
on to him by other examiners. A singu-
larly ill-informed candidate reported for
his viva, and to question after question
hazarded the wildest of answers. The
inquisitor led him to the window and
pointed to the building opposite. “Per-
haps you can tell me the name of that
place?” he suggested silkily. “Oh, that’s
St. Michael’s College, sir;” “Well,” com-
mented the prof, with acid, “that’s the first
intelligent you’ve given me.”
Then, as an afterthought, “You might do
better at architecture.”
❖ ❖ *>
“0.W.W.”: On a bus two girls with
golf-bags were discussing some fellow
they called “old Romeo.” “He was off
his stroke today,” one remarked. “That’ll
be the day!” the other said sharply. “I
had to smack his face, anyhow.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kenyas”: I spent the evening with
some friends in a Sydney seaside suburb.
I’d never visited the house before, so my
host guided me to it from the bus-stop.
“I’ll take you in the back way. It saves
a five-minute walk,” he said. We wended
through a long, dark lane. “It’s a wonder
the council doesn’t give you a few lights
-here,” I remarked. “Oh, it has,” he said.
‘There should be several, but it’s a
regular lovers’-lane. They nurl rocks at
the lamps so they can enjoy the dark-
ness.”
BUSMAN’S HOLIDAY
“In the heavy rain on Boxing Day a Mel-
bourne bus-driver swam to get help for his
stranded passengers from the bus stalled in
five-feet of water under a Footscray viaduct,
and returned to duck-dive two or three times
to fasten the tow-chain.”
When five-foot rivers run in Footscray
streets
A driver well may give his bus the sack,
Leaving his fares to stand upon the seats;
But is he justified in swimming back ?
, He’s been engaged explicitly as
“driver,”
And not as “ captain” or as “deep-
sea diver.”
He should have had a coastal master’s
ticket
{And, as a master, should have been
on strike);
The divers’ union will not think it cricket,
Duck-diving to fix tow-ropes, and the
like:
He owes them a subscription for his
dip,
And to the masters’ guild a member-
ship.
In sport, his situations even grimmer;
Olympic fans won’t witness him at all
Either as diver or as distance-swimmer —
His status has become professional,
For when a man with talent finds a
a use for it
Olympic sports have nothing but
abuse for it.
I merely touch upon the major crimes
Committed by this reckless charioteer
That scorn the rules and morals of the
times
And pile him on the rocks with his
career,
Too pleased, no doubt, escaping with
his neck,
To dream of asking salvage on the
wreck.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
STATUES
White statues set upon a green
With ne’er a pigeon on them seen.
Who pose in attitudes most rare,
And crane their necks and squint and
stare,
With trousers cleaned and pressed again,
And shoes with ne’er a spot or stain,
Some tall and thin, some round and fat,
And most of them with a strange hat;
And, if I might this fact disclose,
Er — one, l think, with a red nose.
Starched, laundered statues spruce and
clean,
All playing bowls upon the green.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


T DON’T know how schoolteachers
keep their hands off some of the bigger
boys in their classes. A lad of 15 visits
us, and with roars of laughter gives us an
idea of what some masters suffer in his
large class of boys, all round about 15.
When an exasperated man walks down
the class-room to threaten the worst
offenders, others trip him up, then rise
and bow and apologise in an offensively-
exaggerated manner. When he reaches
the boys threatened with punishment, they
cringe, cover their heads with their arms
and, giving out pseudo-screams, cry
“Don’t hit me, sir! Please don’t hit me” ;
or, “I’ll tell my mummy if you touch
me!” Kindness to animals can be
stretched to cover too much. —“Keem.”
❖ ♦>
“Nurseryman”: The Christmas-tree
tradition did more in a fortnight to de-
forest Victoria than a bad bushfire-season.
Thousands poured into the hills and
chopped down young Pinus radiata or
lopped the tops off big ones, not only
on farms and private property, but in the
State forests and in the Board of Works
catchment-areas. The police caught a few
of the vandals returning through our
town and booked them, but they didn’t
catch the owners of trucks that brought
in huge loads.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Peel-street”: Gavin Casey’s George'
(B. 14/12/’55) brought as much delight
into my house as Father Christmas, but
all unanimously lamented the omission of
George’s reaction to being washed. The
canine medley which rules my roost is
tied up on the Friday evening in order to
ensure his presence for Saturday’s bath.
After being dumped once into the soapy
aftermath of wash-day he now, at the
throw of the washing-machine-switch,
spends the rest of that day in the most
inaccessible corner under the house. A
Qpund of chicken-liver couldn’t cajole
him out nor get him at any time to enter
the wash-house. So it would be interest-
ing to learn the sagacious George’s atti-
tude to wash-tubs —or did Casey, by ex-
cusably failing to pluck up enough cour-
age, never find out?
❖ ❖ *
“Baggyduds”: The old hand-whirling
bread-cutters would be as much out of
place in the modem nuclear-research-
laboratory-like Army kitchens as a baby
in a coalmine. One may have been
pressed into service, from “Q”-store
obscurity, while the Regular Army press-
button job was on sick-leave. Have
recently completed a two-year posting
with Area Command, Liverpool (N.S.W.),
and am willing to bet “Curriedeggs” (B.
21 /12/’55) a year’s pay that he could not
produce one machines, bread, cutting,
hand-whirling, with a permanent posting,
from any N.S. kitchen in that area.
“C.A.L.”: It was my bad fortune to
have to tell a clamoring bargain-sale
mob that a special line had been sold-out
within minutes of opening-time. The
Australians were cheerfully abusive, and
walked off suggesting where the assistant
could put the sold-out stock. New Aus-
tralians presented an arrogant front,
wanting to know how fully 500 people
could so quickly buy-out a bargain-line
—of which only 150 were offered.
Chooms wanted to see the manager, de-
manding of him that he produce the
advertised goods at the give-away price,
all invariably telling him that such a
thing wouldn’t happen in England.
♦ * ❖
“Nakhoda”: Touching nom-de-plumes
(B. 21/12/’55). I have been a twice-
weekly subscriber to Tatt.’s since that
benign institution came to Melbourne
and have used all the approved lucky
charms, like “Still Hoping,” “Wedding
Bells” and “Black Cat,” in order to soften
the heart of the gentleman who draws
the marbles. I have tried to appeal to his
social nature with “How About Us?”
and I have even tried intimidation with
“Last Time!” To no effect whatever.
The other day I used one of my Bulletin
pen-names—the first that saw my light
break in the paper—and won a fiver.
♦♦♦ ❖
“E.H.M.”: A £ 1500-utility may be used
for retailing ice-cream (B. 14/12/’55), but
a hawker calls on us carrying miscellane-
ous products—medicines, cosmetics, etc.
—in a Rolls-Royce. He’s been on the
job about two years. His predecessors
in bombs of ancient vintage and mechani-
cal curiosities slung the job in after about
three months.
“C. Sandy”: Despite the uniform,
“Doric” (B. 21/12/’55), there will never
be a shortage of recruits for the nursing-
profession while there are men . medical-
students. The teaching-hospitals never
have shortages, but in the larger private
hospitals the waiting-lists of trainees are
not very long—the cloistered atmosphere
imposed by tradition-loving matrons may
be to blame. Modern girls love freedom,
and permission to “live-out” might ensure
increased popularity for the profession—
in short, when nurses can go to work like
typists. 4
♦> <* ❖
“O’Johnno”: A bill has gone through
Tasmania’s Legislative Council making it
an offence for a person who is not a
financial-member of the R.S.L. to wear or
be in possession of the league’s badge.
Unauthorised people have flaunted the
badge ; and penalties have been fixed
at a tenner for the first offence and
double that for the second. One point
“I'Ve a horrible suspicion this mans a copyist !”
that is worrying some R.S.L. members,
though, is just how a check can be made
on, say, mainlanders wearing the badge
in Tasmania.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: As I remarked on this
page some weeks ago, the little screen
enslaves as surely as it entertains —a
woman in Los Angeles has obtained a
divorce after citing television as co-
respondent.
❖ »J* ♦>
I
“Doric”: Film-distributors are bad
mixers. At a suburban theatre I have
seen two Westerns on the same night.
On another night I endured for the first
feature Hollywood’s hammiest actor in
“ Don't be ignorant, Charles. We all had to learn once, y'know."
an English film. His girl-friend, after a
bit of, a tiff, walked around in the rain,
contracted pneumonia and died. After
the interval, to my horror, the same
actor starred in an American film. He
married the girl this time and what hap-
pened? After a bit of a tiff she walked
around in the rain, contracted pneumonia
and died.
❖ ❖ ❖
“R.M.L.”: On one of those husband-
versus-wife commercials, compere Alwyn
Kurt asked the husband to retail his
wife’s “annoying little habits.” The hus-
band complained that the missus belonged
to the C.W.A. and “must always be
making something” ; whenever he opened
a wardrobe things fell out on top of him
—raffia-mats, lampshades, plastic-bags,
and baskets. It’s not only C.W.A. craft-
classes that engender such wardrobes.
We have one which, whenever I open it,
showers forth coils of flex; an electric-
drill, flimsy bags of nails, half-open tin
boxes full of nuts and bolts, tins of paint,
and mussy gobbets of steel-wool. Oh,
yes, my husband keeps his pants, jackets,
and best suit there, too —behind several
large sheets of sandpaper!
"JDoynest”: Standard two-dollar hair-
cuts (almost £1 Australian) agreed upon
by the U.S. Associated Master Barbers
and Beauticians have 'the advantage of
making Sydney’s 4s. and Melbourne’s
3s. 6d. look like genuine cut-prices.
“O’Johnno”: In these days of high
costs a valuable aid to home-builders
is a rubbish-dump. One man I know
brought home a big part of the material
he required for concrete-reinforcement
from the town dump, which also hap-
pened to be not far from a factory which
threw out quantities of unwanted steel —
lengths of galvanised pipe, slabs of flat-
iron for fireplace-backs, new screws and
bolts by the gross, and various other odd
lines. Wire and wire-rope, old car-parts,
slightly-damaged primus-stoves which
only required a new half-crown burner-
fixing are found on dumps. Cycle-
owners make frequent trips to the dump
for spare parts, and usually come back
satisfied: and * there are bottles to be
salvaged for sale to marine-dealers. A
neat-looking fence which attracts a lot
of attention was made from steel strips
that had been tossed out. One firm, asked
why there is so much apparent waste in
the way of stuff carted out to the dump,
explained that it didn’t pay to pick things
up from the workshop floor—hence the
quantity of screws, nails, rivets, and
suchlike which the salvager retrieves..
THE FREAK OF FREAKS.
“A Brisbane punter gave his bookmaker £3O
for a Christmas-present.”
The season of goodwill comes round,
And everyone's a real good fellow;
Under its influence profound
Even the nark becometh mellow.
I know a man (this I’ll attest )
So sparked by this December ember,
fie sent a case of Scotch (the best
Brand, too, such as you’d give your guest),
With greeting, to his Federal member!
Dentists have got—or so I’ve heard —
From patients quite expensive presents;
The surly Bung gets not the bird
From drinker, but a brace of pheasants.
For my own part, I do contend
We need some seasonal aberration ;
Thus, every Christmas-time I send
Fifty Coronas to my friend
The Dep.-Commissioner of Taxation.
That serpent’s-tooth, Ingratitude,
Is being de-venomed, and gets blunter.
Let’s take a lesson from a shrewd-
Head, Brisbane's gladdest, maddest
punter.
Most followers of the dead and quick,
Tasting the short-odds handed backers,
Would make a gift of arsenic,
Gladly, to bookies. He got a kick
By handing his bloke thirty-smackers.
Why he should want to swell a wad
Already mighty is a mystery.
Did he, just once too often, nod?
At any rate, he’s just made history.
Will he, this punter, start a craze,
Kindly' to feed the mouths that bite
’em ?
Will others back with pelf their praise ?
The odds against it I would raise
To something like ad infinitum !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
Mummo Christie and the
Chin-waggers
“/-'HIN-WAGGERS” was the irreverent
name the locals had for a worthy
women’s organisation which for years
had met dreamily for tea and gossip.
Now stirred-up by a dynamic president,
newcomer from the big town over the
range, they had burst into a wide field
of activities.
It was the Arts and Crafts brought
Mumma Christie in. She guffawed rudely
at the hand-loom.
“Ten-quid for dat? My old man make
better with pocketknife. Old Country
my mumma make sheet, clothes, ebery-
ting, here plenty ’terial in shop. I don’t
making nothing can buy.”
Everything else she copied avidly,
baskets and papier mache bowls, posies
of felt or fish-scales, even of pumpkin-
seeds and bottle-tops. After each meet-
ing there would be a flurry at the Christie
home as Mumma tried the new crafts.
“Julie,” she would shriek, “get it baper.
Sylvie, make it baste. Peter, your little
Elena been play my izziz, can’t cut noth-
ing, you sharpen quick.”
Mumma had inherited skilled fingers
from ancestors who had been craftsmen
when Hiram, King of Tyre, had the con-
tract for the woodwork in Solomon’s
Temple, so out of this bedlam emerged
knick-knacks which tourists eagerly
bought.
W here was Madame President her-
self, in the Christies’ best room,
where Mumma’s handiwork obscured the
fine old things from the Old Country,
every space overflowing with wool mats,
rugs, crochet, embroidery and shell
trinkets.
Mumma introduced her niece. “Sister’s
gel from Old Country,” she said proudly.
“My time, don’t educating gel, no
school. This one teacher speaking
French, English too.”
The niece brought coffee in tiny frail
cups brought from China long ago by
Mumma’s grandfather.
“How cafe should be,” she said in her
pretty, tripping accent. “Black like night,
sweet like sin, ’ot like ’ell.”
Madame President ignored this unsuit-
able remark and gulped down the coffee,
which she thought resembled sweetened
mud. Brightly she explained the reason
for her visit. The Chin-waggers had
chosen the Christies’ homeland for “Inter-
national Day,” when each branch chose
a country, gave a “talk” on it and dis-
played that nation’s flag. Would Mumma
describe her country’s flag? What color
was it?
Under long lashes, Mumma’s eyes sur-
veyed her room. The Union Jacks which
fluttered among the pampas-grass in the
big antique vases, the Australian flags
embroidered on the tablecloth, the
doilies crocheted with the Southern Cross.
Slowly and with dignity she answered:
“What color my country’s flag? Red,
white, blue, same you. Dis my country,
forty year we nationalised.”
JEAN DUNSTAN.


Keep in
goop
spirits
AO NVug
IVUdSOH
HI9N3
His
PERSONAL ITEMS
Portland, which will be the centre for
the rich trade of Victoria’s Western Dis-
trict and part of South Australia, has had
only two town clerks over the last 67
years. T. E. C. Henry took over the
position in 1888 and served until 1938.
His son, E. N. T. Henry, then took the
helm, and is still on deck.
• •
It was appropriate that Norman Gilbert
should have presided, late in the old
year, at the 21st-birthday celebration of
C.O.R. in South Australia, because he
was one of the key-men when the com-
pany started its own sales-organisation
in Adelaide. In the oil-game for most of
his 51 years, he’s now C.O.R.’s South
Australian manager. Even when he was
in the A.I.F. (rank, captain) his job was
mostly oil—seeing that planes, ships and
Army vehicles got the right sort at the
right time and in sufficient quantities.
These chores were performed in New
Guinea and the Dutch East Indies, and
in the Philippines, where he spent seven
months attached to the U.S. Forces. He
makes no parade of his executive art, and
is as far removed as possible from the
button-thumping. type of big business-
man made familiar by Hollywood and
OIL
(for that reason, perhaps) not unknown
in these parts. Considerate to his staff
and fond of a joke, he relaxes mainly
in keeping his motorboat shipshape for
fishing-trips on the Murray. His wife is
a granddaughter of the Bishop Short who
was S.A.’s first bishop, and of Captain
Alexander Tolmer, S.A.’s first Police
Commissioner, who blazed the gold-
escort highway from the Bendigo diggings
to Adelaide.
• •
Dr. Edward Ronald Walker, succeed-
ing W. D. Forsyth as Australian
permanent representative to U.N.O. in
New York, with rank of Ambassador,
was born at Cobar (N.S.W.), collected a
Sydney M.A., and went on to bag a
Cambridge Ph.D. and a Litt.D. Began
the academic side of his career as lec-
turer in Economics at Sydney Univer-
sity in 1927, Fellow of the Rockefeller
Foundation, Cambridge, 1931-33, Pro-
fessor of Economics at the University of
Tasmania from 1939 to 1946 ; adviser
to N.S.W. Treasury and Government of
Tasmania and, later, the Department of
War Organisation of Industry’s deputy
director-general and executive-member
of the National Security Resources
Board. He was on the h.q. staff of
Unrra in 1945, and was also Australian
representative on the executive board of
Unesco. His job till he takes up his new
appointment is Australian Ambassador to
Japan: before that, he was Economic
Counsellor in Western Europe, with his
office in Paris. Author of a string of
economic publications, including The
Australian in War and Reconstruction.
“Cauboy”: When Ray Lawler’s Aus-
tralian play, “Summer of the Seven-
teenth Doll,” had its season at the Union
Theatre, Melbourne, extended, the longest
theatrical memory couldn’t recall such a
thing having happened to any other
Australian author, though there was a
strong move in this direction for a play
by the late Furnley Maurice, put on by
veteran producer Beresford Fowler.
Placed at Sunshine (Vic.), Maurice’s play
concerned a revolutionary upheaval' of
the workers which was sidetracked when
the revolutionaries discovered that a
shedful of barrels supposed to be full of
high explosives contained hard-liquor.
While the audience glared, the actors
polished-off the contents of one of the
barrels every evening. In his zeal for
Australian drama Mr. Fowler had pro-
vided real beer ; at the end of the week’s
run there was a unanimous demand from
the actors that the run of the play should
be extended for at least another fort-
night.
• •
An old friend’s valedictory:
Albert Edward Heath, C.M.G., was one of
the most remarkable characters in Australian
commerce and industry. Born of a Tasmanian
pioneering family in Maryborough (Q.), he
went to a State school, but his early education
was checked when he was bitten by a snake,
and the accident damaged his heart —a handicap
for the rest of his life.
He entered the world of work at the end of
a broom, sweeping-up chips in a furniture-
factory for ss. a week, but worked at home to
qualify as a chartered accountant. At 25 he
was in business on his own account in Sydney,
eking out earnings in his practice by coaching.
Despite his physical disabilities, he was a
keen soldier in the old St. George Rifles, and
was commissioned for active service with the
18th Battalion, A.1.F.; but his will was stronger
than his damaged heart, and he was passed
out before going overseas. No military cause
which needed his help, financial or otherwise,
was ever turned away during his lifetime. By
the time he was 40 he was a power in Sydney
commerce, having become general-manager of
Saxton and Sons, a large-scale timber-concern.
Very interested in Chamber of Commerce
affairs, he was the representative of the Aus-
tralian National Committee of International
Chambers at several world-congresses-—at
Vienna, Berlin, Paris, Montreux and, last year,
Tokyo—and was trade-adviser to the 1.T.0.
conference at Geneva in 1947. From 1934 to
1938 he was N. S. Wales Agent-General in
London, and in 1935 was given a C.M.G., pre-
ferring it to a knighthood.
Before his term was up he returned to organ-
ise the N. S. Wales timber industry, of which
he became a sort of benevolent dictator; his
word was law among the co-operating firms. In
between these duties he managed to carry on
as president of the Sydney Chamber of Com-
merce for three post-war two-year terms, to act
as chairman of Babcock and Wilcox (Aust.),
and of Beard Watson and Allen Taylor and Co.,
and to sit on the board of Union Trustees and
some other firms connected with timber.
During the war he was a member of the
Capital Issues Board, But he was never too
busy to give his time to a patriotic cause, and
the military and naval forces were indebted
to him for trophies and contributions on a
generous scale.
A keen lover of Australian history, he was
instrumental in a fund being raised for the
repair and maintenance of Governor Mac-
quarie’s tomb in Mull (Scotland). Also, he was
a committeeman of the Australasian Pioneers’
Club.
At 68, he was in process of retirement from
his positions in the timber-trade and was look-
ing forward to a few years of comparative
leisure when he had a fatal coronary occlusion
at Castle Hill, Sydney.
• •
F.-O. Tom Stoney, of No. 2 Opera-
tional Training Unit, Williamtown
(N.S.W.), first R.A.A.F. pilot to fly 1000
hours in jets, had most of his early experi-
ence of jets with 77 Squadron in Korea.
He went into the R.A.A.F. in War 11,
flew in operations from the U.K. with
456 and 35 Squadrons, re-enlisted in
1948 and saw two tours of operational
duty in Korea, the first flying Mustang
fighters, the second flying Meteors. A
flight-sergeant during the U.N. with-
drawal to Hum Hung late in 1951, he
personally led many missions to protect
ground troops and, for work there, col-
lected the Distinguished Flying Medal
and the American Distinguished Flying
Cross.
“Jock”: John Farrell, calling it a
day at 81 after 66 years with
J.C.W., has been the Firm’s touring-
manager for years, but earlier was on-
stage in “Struck Oil” and “The
Mikado.” Melbourne-born, he was a
cafiboy at the age of eight, became office-
boy to Williamson (then of the firm of
Williamson, Gamer and Musgrove)
when he was 15, and has been associated
with every Gilbert and Sullivan company
under the Firm’s banner during the past
53 .years; on G. and S. comic-opera
itself he’s as good as word-perfect.
• •
A blind solicitor has issued a writ
out of a Melbourne court on behalf of
a blind Army officer. The solicitor is
Dudley A. Tregent, who lost his sight
in World War I. The Army officer is
Lieut. Lawrence McCredie, who lost
his sight through an explosion at Pucka-
punyal (Vic.) three years ago. The claim,
for £30,000, is against the Commonwealth
and 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
• •
“Fitz”: Latterly, Alex Holmes had been a
Sydney tram-conductor, Bondi or Bronte run:
a slight, fair-haired bloke with a pleasant
smile, known to hundreds of regular strap-
hangers. On Monday he was due in Africa to
take on a new job.
Born in Brisbane, educated at Sydney Tech.
High, now 47, Alex’s first job was making
women’s handbags; then to sea, for Burns Philp;
then work as a sailmaker; and a taste of
western N.S.W. dust, tending Otway Falkiner’s
cattle and sheep on old Widgiewa.
After that, nine months with Alf Henson’s
boys (of whom “Darky” Blandon, later Aus-
tralian featherweight champ., was the star),
taking on the locals. Alex, a fedder, too, saw
a fair bit of country and collected picturesque
experience in his tent-fighting days. Apropos
one boxing-team—not Henson’S —he remarked:
“You fought seven hours a day on bread-and-
treacle and were lucky to get brawn for
Christmas-dinner.” Then a variety of jobs—
factory-hand, flower-seller, rabbit-oh, tent-
maker, builder’s laborer, steelworker. An
amusing letter to N.S.W, Premier “Tubby”
Stevens landed him a job on the trams in the
middle of the depression.
Alex has no complaints about tram-
conducting; but his major interest was outside
stops and signals. Whenever able to escape
he went bush, studying birds, insects, small
animals, snakes. He collected for zoos and
museums, has been a member of several
scientific expedition. For 10 years he edited and
mostly wrote “Bird World and Pets’ Digest”;
he wrote for Crosbie Morrison’s “Wild Life,”
for the English magazine “Cage Birds,” and
he has written for The Bulletin.
He’s really fond of snakes. You had only
to see him handling Joe, a sleepy old carpet-
snake, at his Woollahra (Sydney) home to be
sure of that. There, too, a variety of rare
birds, a pair of pygmy flying-squirrels, a
garden with lovely bush-orchids.
A reader-book-collector, at artist Bill Prior’s
place the night before his departure he picked
up Kingsford Smith’s The Old. Bus, noted his
host’s interest in aviation and, before his plane
NATURAL HISTORY
left, dumped a pile of books and newspaper-
clippings on the subject on The Bulletin’s
front-counter, with a message for Bill to help
himself. Typical, too, of his casual generosity
—demonstrated also by gifts of bush-orchids to
two recent acquaintances.
He went to Africa at the invitation of the
Armand Denis Film Corporation, an American
concern that specialises in moving-pictures of
wild-life. Alex’s job will be to establish
breeding-colonies of small animals and birds
from all over the world on 20 acres of virgin
bush near Nairobi, Kenya, to obtain wanted
species and, generally, to look after the area
and its inhabitants. A lifetime dream come
true.
Bora in Broken Hill and educated at
St. Peter’s College, South Australia, and
Melbourne University, R. H. (Rob) Wain-
wright has been a Queenslander for 20
years. After a double-term as president
of Brisbane Chamber of Commerce, his
interest has turned to helping New Aus-
tralians find their feet in Queensland ; for
six years he has been president of the
State New Settlers’ League. Director of
NEW SETTLERS
several of the Burns Philp subsidiaries,
member of the Marine Board of Queens-
land, and general-manager of Penneys,
Ltd., chain-stores, he has little time left
for golf.
• • -
An Archasological and Anthropologi-
cal honors-man of Cambridge, Ph.D. of
Oxford, J. A. Barnes has been given the
Chair of Anthropology at Sydney Uni-
versity. Now Reader in the subject at
the London School of Economics, Pro-
fessor Barnes relieves A. P. Elkin, retiring
early in the New Year.
• •
Rich in experience, John Riches lately
lobbed in Melbourne per migrant-ship
from London. Thirty-six, he’s been
blacksmith, permanent Navy man, deep-
sea diver, ballroom-dancing champion,
welder, A-grade Soccer-referee and judo-
expert. Like post Naval blackies, he took
on diving, and had 14 years of it before,
during and after War 11. Apart from the
conventional clearing of inlet-valves and
wire-fouled screws, he’s, helped recover
bodies from an Isle of Wight ferry which
was opened by a German mine in Ports-
mouth, and he was in at the salvage-
attempt on submarine Affray after she’d
gone down in the Channel, with the loss
of 180 lives. Nastiest half-hour —trapped
under a bomb-splintered jetty in Singa-
pore, pulled out by his water-mate feet-
first just in time. Swiftest ascent —in the
same area, where a wharf-sentry warned
him that a hungry-looking crocodile Was
heading, with intent, towards him. Out
here the man of parts hopes to get in a
bit of Soccer-refereeing, and to get down
under again, this time for Thursday
Island pearlshell.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 80, Stephen Henry Hosking,
known throughout the Commonwealth and New
Zealand as a breeder and judge of Friesian
cattle for many years. He came from Corn-
wall at the beginning of the century with a
consignment of stud cattle for J. H. McConnel,
of Cressb'rook station (Q.), and stayed to
branch-out with his own St. Gwythian stud.
He leaves a daughter and three sons.
In Melbourne, John Joseph Holland, Labor
M.L.A. in the State House for more than 30-
years. He entered Parliament in 1925, worked
hard for co-operatives and social-welfare
schemes, and founded the Postal Electricians’
Union. He only had five days’ taste of office —
as Minister for Public Works in the short-lived
Cain Ministry of 1943.
In London, at 80, L. C. Braund, one of the
greatest English cricket all-rounders in the
early years of the century. He played in 20
Tests against Australia, and came here with the
1901, 1903 and 1907 English sides. He made
and 102), with his best two bowling-efforts 8-81
two Test-centuries against Australia (103 not-out
and 5-61.


J.ENDEAN


'T'HE Long Feller had his arm in a
sling and a bandaged head. “I’m
fencing down along the road,” he
explained, “and the axe skithers off a
knot when I’m trimming the hump off
a post. Me leg’s lookin’ a bit bloody
when this old hen pulls up her car and
comes cluckin’ over. ‘Nothing but a bit
of skin lifted,’ I tell her; ‘l’ll tie it up
now and dab a bit of sheep-dip on
tonight.’ ‘Rubbish,’ she says; ‘you
need a couple of stitches and a shot of
anti-tet. Get into the car.’ When I’m
in the car, I notice an L-card on the
windscreen. The old girl sees me eyeing
it. ‘First time I’ve been out on my own,’
she says. We’re doing fine till we come
to the steep bit at the top of the long
hill, when a speed-merchant shoots over
the crest, hugging a bit more than the
middle of the road. The old girl’s
reflexes aren’t too bad, only they make
her jab her foot hard on the gas as she
swings to the left. We skid on the loose
gravel in the gutter and—whang!—a tree
hits us fair between the headlights.
Shock and abrasions for her, concussion
and a busted arm for me.” —“Hist.”
* * * *
“Woorarra”: The busy highway ran
for half-a-mile or so between a large,
reed-fringed lake and a series of shallow
swamps. When swamp-hens wished to
cross the narrow strip of bitumen they
usually preferred to walk rather than fly.
This practice was responsible for many
casualties, strangely enough nearly all
during the mating-season. During the
rest of the year deaths were rare in spite
of the fact that traffic was just as brisk.
Which peculiar set of circumstances
causes this observer to reflect that “luv”
must be just as confusing a business for
birds as it is for humans.
* * * *
“Bass”: Don’t know if there’s any
record of wasps tackling the funnel-web
spider of Sydney —Atrax robustus —but
wasps will go for trapdoor-spiders, even
ripping off the dopr and going down
the hole after them. There are sundry
such cases on record, and in some of
them the wasps have turned the spiders’
tunnels into their own nests, replacing
the trapdoor with a few dry leaves and
twigs. The funnel-web belongs to the
same group as the trapdoors, of which
there are dozens of species, distinguish-
able by having four breathing-openings
instead of the two which suffice for other
spiders, a pair of slender tails aft, and
fangs which strike downwards instead of
meeting in a pincer-grip.
* * * +
“Q. Ree”: When we wanted odd-jobs
done about the place we just passed the
word to her boy-friend via our Fijian
house-girl. Soon hordes of Fijians would
be falling over themselves to do as he
said, while he would not even bother to
supervise. As we normally have to
stand over them to get things done, I
thought he must be of chiefly rank, and
asked the girl.. “No,” she said, “he has
a liquor-licence.” Cost of a job was the
price of a bottle of whisky for Saturday
night. As there were always dozens of
them, we thought there wouldn’t be
much harm done.
* * * «
“Bellfield”: From the top of a cli f
overlooking a small bay south of
Cronulla (N.S.W.) I watched the shoal of
sweep in towards the shore, pur-
sued by 4ft.-long school-sharks. Close
inshore the salmon seemed to realise the
trap; quickly they wheeled and shot out
towards the open sea. The manoeuvre
was instantly frustrated by a section of
„the attacking force breaking formation
to cover the gap. The salmon doubled
back in a tight turn, headed inshore for
a few yards, then pivoted suddenly and
again tried to break through the cordon.
Again the opening closed. By then the
northern arm of the bay was too close
to permit another attempt; the shoal
swung inwards in a frantic about-face —
only to find that the cordon had closed
in behind. The victims were cornered
as completely as if they had been beasts
worked by well-trained dogs. As I
waited for the inevitable attack the bay
suddenly became a flurry of big, plung-
ing bodies —porpoises, the school-shark’s
hereditary enemy. The salmon escaped
in the ensuing melee.
* * * *
“E.M.”: Invited by our New Austra-
lian neighbor to look over his garden,
we saw much to admire. Then we came
upon a plant in a pot, its long shoots
carefully trained and fastened to the wall.
A blackberry !
“Harbel”: “Bass” won’t get many sup-
porters for his claim that “hundreds of
vegetarian-marsupial types are thriving
while practically all the carnivorous
types have become extinct, or nearly so”
(B. 7/12/’55). A surprising number of
our marsupials are not strict vegetarians.
Bandicoots, for instance, once believed
to subsist entirely on roots, are now
established as mixed eaters, with grubs,
insects, mice and even small lizards pre-
ferred to vegetarian diet. That pretty
little creature the sugar-squirrel mixes a
diet of insects with his native blossoms;
and though the tiny squirrel-glider eats
nectar from native-flowers, he also
relishes moths and has been observed to
eat hornet’s larvae. Ellis Troughton, in
Furred Animals of Australia, states that
"Here comes the cattle-boat from the North-West."
the spotted phalanger kills and eats
small animals and birds, while brushtail-
possums not only eat dead birds but
rabbit-fur has been found in their
stomachs. The various marsupial-mice
and -rats are largely carnivorous.
Wholly so are the “native” and “tiger”
cats, which, though scarcer than they
were, are far from extinct.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Some things change but little
in the deep south of New Zealand.
Connoisseurs of the speerit can still
satisfy their cravings for the real McKay
if they know their way about. The true
Hokonui whisky is still being produced,
as in the right locality the label with the
skull-and-crossbones bears witness. Not
half-a-dozen miles from Invercargill
they’re distilling stuff that sells at
thirteen-bob a time, but the genuine
article comes from farther in. There, for
ten-bob, they’ll procure. you Hokonui
complete with label and a guarantee it’s
at least three weeks old. Chief takers
in these piping days of peace are
northerners, not foolhardy enough to
tackle the stuff themselves, but willing
to let some mug make a goat of himself.
Only a true Scot has fortitude enough to
meet Hokonui on its own ground.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Our host upended the
two-gallon stone demijohn to drain the
last few sweet drops of party-wine.
With a soft, ominous plop the nose and
face-features of a large very-dead rat
blocked the opening. A sickly silence
descended on the throng, and the party
collapsed. Neither the unfortunate wine-
merchapt nor anybody else ever
explained how Mr. Rat could have
attained healthy adulthood in his stone
prison.
***.*.
“J.P.C.”: For five years now I’ve
watched in vain for the reappearance of
the brolga, or native companion as some
still know it, on the Vic. western plains.
These birds were an attractive feature of
our swamps, and when away from the
water always created a pleasant diversion
for the traveller by rhythmic movements
that would inspire a choreographer.
There seems no reason for their absence,
as climatic conditions haven’t altered
and all other water-birds still frequent
the locality, according to migratory
habits. The shotgun pests don’t seem to
be any worse, either. One of the com-
pensations I’ve experienced in mono-
tonous country is the company of bird-
life, and the disappearance of any one
species is therefore badly missed.
* * * *
“Nangabrook”: “Motuku’s” claim (B.
30/11/’55) that its spermaceti gives extra
buoyancy to a whale is an old belief
that’s been disposed of. The “case,”
which may be 20ft. long, is really a
gigantic transformed nose which has lost
its smelling-power, but has special
breathing-functions ; certainly the biggest
nose of which we have any record. The
spermaceti-oil it holds corresponds to
what is contained in the hump of a
camel —it’s a store of food accumulated
during periods of lush feeding and
drawn-on during lean times. The whale
doesn’t need any assistance to either dive
or surface. It develops tremendous
power by using its tail-flukes as a pro-
peller ; if you ever see a whale just hauled
from the water, note how those flukes
resemble a ship’s screw. The power that
tail can develop can be gauged from the
fact that a harpooned whale has been
known to dive straight down and hit
bottom hard enough to break its neck —
at over 250 fathoms.
* * * *
“D.W.K.”* But was the depiction of
land ploughed on the left-hand an artistic
bloomer (B. 16/11 /’55)? I once had a
right-hand single and a left-hand single
mouldboard. I used them for ploughing
a steep hilly orchard; the idea was to
lay the furrows up to the trees with the
right-hand and plough back with the
left-hand. You had to go up the hill
empty. The only difference with the
left-hand on the level was that you had
to “Gee back! ” instead of “Come here! ”
as with the rigtff-hand plough.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Ornithologists have tended
to overestimate the relationship of honey-
eaters and eucalypts (B. 14/12/’55).
All other blossoms are in the aggregate
of first-rate importance to the nectar-
loving clan. Thus the barren heathlands
of coastal N.S.W., covered with such
flowering-shrubs as grevillea, dwarf-
apple, honey-flower, etc., support hordes
of honeyeaters. My own district con-
tains large areas of eucalypts interspersed
with extensive patches of heath, the
whole crisscrossed with many small
streams. No fewer than 22 species of
honeyeaters have appeared in this locality
during my two years’ residence, and only
six of these have kept exclusively to the
big timber. Of the balance, the majority
like to mix their brew with that of a
flowering-shrub, while a few are rarely
found outside the heath. As an interesting
sidelight on the influence of environment:
the brushwattle-bird, shy and elusive
when dwelling in heath, tends to become
quite matey on the rare occasions when
he takes up residence in big timber.
OLD GARDENER
This is his door of Heaven, this garden,
All that is holy flourishes in here,
His dream, his star, his Lady, his dominion,
His place of refuge hedged by leaf and flower.
He leans to earth, a Huckleberry Finn
Grown older, patches at the knee and rear;
He sulks, drinks beer, is not a neighbor-seeker;
Only the man-who-mends-the-mower enters
here.
Boys are afraid of him, will not trespass
To plunder nests, to steal his fruit or hide
Searching for* wayward balls and climbing
trees—
His hands are heavy on a boy’s backside.
But these same hands are tender on the rose
Reflecting on his palms her crimson glow;
Her petals know his trembling finger-tips;
A woman might have known them long ago.
Darting from air the urchin sparrows trust him,
Quarrel for crumbs on lip and knee from where
He sits so still a hand might sprout a leaf
Or limbs twine branches round the rustic chair.
He is a sacrifice to spring’s green fire,
He fights the summer heat with hat and hose.
And learns the whole of life with leaf’s sad fall,
And buries the petals of his fallen rose.
After the storm he strokes the cypress-pine,
Apostle head bent to its dark lament;
And when he leans towards the swollen earth
To him it cries with love, “I wait. I want.”
N.S.W.
PIXIE O'HARRIS.


THE Lord Howe Island butterfly-
cod, with its brightly-colored
waving fins and tail, is a very beautiful
fish. When visiting that island, I asked
a resident where was the best place to
see them. He said, “Taronga Park.” —
“Doric.”
* * * *
“Puss”: The friend handed the engine-
driver a bag containing a cat, which he
wanted him to abandon as many miles
away as possible. Putting the bag on the
floor of the loco., the driver chatted for
a while; then he stooped down, opened
the furnace-door and into the flames
went the old sugar-bag. White-faced and
sick, the cat’s owner staggered back gasp-
ing that he “didn’t mean . . . didn’t
want” Off went the loco., and in
due course the driver let the cat out of
the bag (he’d tossed in a bag that had
been on the footplate) within easy access
of its owner’s place. The look on that
bloke’s face when the cat returned home
was a joy to behold.
* * * *
“Benbow”: The portholes in the
Quetta Cathedral at Thursday Island (B.
23/11/’55) do not exist as windows of
the building. Actually there is one port-
hole, coral-encrusted, on exhibition within
the entrance of the cathedral, a museum-
piece which was recovered from the
wreck. The Quetta had the old-fashioned
square ports, which were closed by dead-
lights, not hinged on the inside as in
modern ships, but fitted-in from over the
side by the ship’s carpenter when weather
indicated they would be needed. Each
deadlight consisted of a rectangular
wooden fitting about 2ft. square and
several inches thick. In the centre of this
was a round disk of thick glass which
allowed a little light to pass through. No
doubt it’s the presence of one of these on
exhibition which has given rise to the
story that the windows are ports from
the Quetta.
* * * *
“Four Threes”: On the loco.-run,
Bricky got the urge to tantalise old
Crusty. “Y’ want a landlady like mine,”
Bricky taunted, pointing to the brown-
paper parcel tucked in behind the injec-
tor steam-pipe. “Steak, onions and
spuds; all a-cookin’ f’r tucker at th’
terminal. None of them redgum-
sandwiches f’r me,” he bragged on.
Crusty didn’t bite, but gave Bricky
another notch of the cut-off lever as an
answer. “Ah, gettin’ a bit niggely, eh?”
Bricky jibed, and swung on the banjo
for more steam. When they reached the
terminal Bricky laid out his lunch with
a running commentary, including “And
this,” holding up another brown-paper
parcel, “is the dessert.” . . . Dead silence.
It will be a long while before Bricky
lives down the time he baked two large
slices of cream-cake for his tucker.
* * * *
“Noah”: The buxom lady on the
roadside station moved forward to greet
the guard as the night “fast” steamed in.
“The boss says for you to pick-up in
No. 2 road, kick two down the sheep-
race and clear the shed-road. He’ll be
back by then. He’s over home putting
the kids to bed. They’re playing-up bad
tonight.” In 10 minutes a determined-
faced stationmaster, still rebuckling his
belt, relieved Mum at the fort. “The
young beggars’ll give no more trouble
tonight,” he told her; then headed-off
to supervise the rest of the shunting.
* * * *
“Motuku”: Tailless birds don’t seem
to miss their tails except when braking
suddenly. Oui scavenging sea-eagles, div-
ing to pick up scraps from the beach, use
their outspread tails very effectively ; but
I’ve never seen any bird to beat the
gannet. Once it has started its dive it
doesn’t often change its mind, but a
shark or dolphin can cause a split-second
change in its plans. Photographs of
gannets braking at full-speed to alight on
a cliff-face show wings curved forwards
and inwards and tail opened like a fan
and bent forward under the body, to
bring the bird to a full-stop right at its
landing-ledge. Loss of its tail would be a
severe handicap.
* * * *
“Hist.”: One way of avoiding the job
of taking the dog for a walk is to acquire
a dachshund. Dachs. have a fascination
for young women. They cry “Isn’t he
lovely! May I pat him?” and attractive
acquaintanceships can follow such in-
cidents. To ensure resting comfortably
at home, just tell your wife about them.
* * * *
“Bass”: Suitable seasons in 1955 have
led to bumper crops in W.A., with, also,
swamps, rivers and estuaries holding the
best assortment of wildfowl they’ve held
for many a year. It’s also thrown a little
light on what initiates the breeding-cycle
in birds. Winter-nesting birds mate at a
time that will ensure the young hatching
when there’s plenty of food, which would
normally be well into, or towards the end
of, the rainy season; so something that
occurs at the beginning of winter must
stimulate the endocrine glands and in-
duce mating. Could be the rain, or the
new greenness, or the cold, or a com-
bination of all, but from 1955 experience
I’d say the rain is the most potent factor.
We got that in -unusual quantities in
February, when we didn’t get much green
and the cold wasn’t excessive; but,
“Pardon me, but could you direct us to the mammoth old-time dance?
whereas the first clutches usually appear
about August, they were on the swamp
in May. No doubt the mating instinct
was triggered by the February rains. Simi-
larly, whereas a second clutch is usually
produced about October, there appeared
to be three hatchings by that time. I’m
even wondering if some of the first hatch-
ing, which were flying by September, may
have mated and brought out a clutch too.
SAILING INSTRUCTIONS
To lie as lovers while your crazy boat
Bucks on a cream of foam to keep afloat
And while the black foreboding of a storm
Obsesses all your sky and the alarm
Of lightning forks its tire above your heads;
To gather up your tenuous worn threads
Like navigators, calm at the abyss
Or braving compass points by Charybdis
And Scylla; or to kneel on splintered pine
Of deckboards while the gale records Force
Nine
And gladly pray, your heart buoyed up with
love,
And give no thought to the great fury of
The seas dark-green and plenteously fished —
This is an end devoutly to be wished.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
Old Bore's Almanack For 1956
Jan. : There will be a day when Sydney
will not have one case of murder, rape,
bodgie-bashing or “daring” banditry,
and a deep gloom will settle on the news-
rooms of the two afternoon-papers at
the effect this will have on circulation.
The President of a Central American
banana-republic will slip across the
border with the contents of the national
“peter,” only to find that it consists of
phony currency placed there in anticipa-
tion of his flight. A workman in the
railway-shops at Eveleigh (Sydney) will
experience no trouble in removing by
truck from the workshops the 36ft yawl
he has been paid overtime to make as a
“foreigner” for himself. There will be
only one road-fatality during a weekend
in Victoria, and a traffic-expert will claim
that motorists are becoming more aware
of road-dangers.
Feb.: There will be a record number
of road-fatalities for a weekend in Vic-
toria. Four murderers doing life-
sentences at Cherokee Bend (Wis.) peni-
tentiary will escape while on their way to
play a polo-match against a team from
another prison. The Mangelwurzel
Marketing Board will launch a £38,000
publicity-campaign to popularise the use
of the mangelwurzel as a salad-vegetable.
Messrs. Bulganin and Khrushchev will
be guests of the Prince of Monaco, and
at a banquet in their honor Khrushchev
in a speech will attack his host for per-
petuating a “feudal political system.
N.S.W. Premier Cahill, opening a new
bridge started 15 years ago, will refer to
his Government’s determination to ‘ push
on at top speed with public works.”
Sydney’s “Daily Mirror” will reverently
disclose that a mystery lady punter lost
£l5OO on one race.
Mar.: A spokesman for N.S.W.
poultryfarmers will claim that unless the
price of eggs is increased operators will
be forced to walk-off their farms. Two
days later a Sydney outer-suburban
poultryfarm will change hands for
£23,000 —a record price. The Doc. will
announce that he will risk being perse-
cuted and smeared by fighting alongside
Premier Cahill against the Libs, in the
N.S.W. election-campaign; Mr. Cahill
will say that he considers the present
would be the ideal# time for Dr. Evatt to
meet Mr. Hugh Gaitskell, the new
British Labor leader, to co-ordinate
Socialist policies between the two coun-
tries. Moscow Radio, announcing a 98.9
per cent, vote for the Government can-
didates at the U.S.S.R. elections—the
only party permitted—will boast that this
reflects the people’s satisfaction with the
Government’s record.
Apl. : “Pravda” will take a leading
Soviet composer to task for failing to use
themes in his latest symphony which
would suitably express the contempt of
the New Democracies for Imperialist war-
mongering and brutal colonialism. A
new ordinance passed by the Labor-con-
trolled Sydney City Council will ex-
pressly give permission for barrowmen
to park their limousines all day beside
their barrows. A financier who wins
first-prize in a Mammoth lottery will tell
reporters that he doesn’t need the money,
but supposes he’ll be able to make use of
it. There will be some thunder and light-
ning in Melbourne with some rain, and
every paper will refer to it as a “freak
storm.” “Pravda” will reveal that the
corkscrew was invented by the Russian
scientist Vassilev Brainoff.
May: The staff of the Mangelwurzel
Board (increased from 82 to 179) will be
asked to work overtime four nights a
week to cope with the extra work made
necessary by the publicity-campaign.
Cauliflowers will retail in Brisbane at Bs.
each, and the president of the Vegetable
Retailers’ Association will explain that
the high price is caused by tb€ dry condi-
tions. During a divorce case a Sydney
judge will refer to a witness as a “kept
woman,” and in a letter to the “S. M.
Herald” a reader will deplore “this
studied insult to all de facta wives.” A
French Government will set a new record
by lasting only 24min. 17sec.
June: A Hollywood cloak-and-dagger
film will appear in which the hero neither
smiles blithely nor makes a speech while
he is fighting a sword-duel. A 20-year-
old blonde who marries an 82-year-old
owner of a chain of luxury hotels will
tell reporters it was a case of love at
first sight. Christian Dior’s ukase that
his new I-line “snake-hip”-look will dis-
place the defined waist will draw acid
comment from spokesmen for various
women’s organisations, and they will pre-
dict that women will not be dragooned
into looking freakish. A Japanese rider
will take his horse to court for having
kicked him in the ribs. It will be dis-
closed that overtime is costing the Man-
gelwurzel Board £ll4O a week.
July: Cauliflowers will go to 9s. each
in Brisbane, and the president of the
Vegetable Retailers’ Association will
explain that the high cost is due to the
rain. Department-stores will report a
phenomenal rush by women for frocks
made with the I-line “snake-hip”-look.
Lady Docker will meet Jack (“Spot”)
Comer in a hopscotch-match, and subse-
quently will express surprise that this
escapade should arouse public interest.
An ex-employee of the Mangelwurzel
Board, in a letter to a daily, will claim
that he took four weeks off without leave
and wasn’t missed, and that the board’s
library contained hundreds of crime-
thrillers specially bought to keep the
typists occupied. A 97-year-old man
from Coyote Springs (Utah) will be the
bridegroom at a shotgun-wedding.
Aug. : The Government will announce
that a new £450,000 building will be
erected to house the Mangelwurzel
Board, the enormous expansion in its
marketing activities having made this
necessary. A Brooklyn (N.Y.) woman
will seek annulment of her marriage to
her Chinese husband on the ground that
she had mistaken him for a white-man
suffering from jaundice. Residents of a
Sydney suburb will wonder why their pot-
hole-riddled road has been replaced by
a beautifully-bitumined surface, and it
will be disclosed that it is on the direct
route from the city to a new dog-racing
track. A man will ask in English for
bread at a King’s Cross (Sydney) deli-
catessen, and will be told that foreign
languages aren’t spoken in that shop.
Sept.: A painting depicting an evis-
cerated cadaver on a marble slab at the
morgue will win a special prize at a con-
temporary-art exhibition for its “poetical
concept.” A Hollywood star will fell
a gossip-columnist that she hasn’t quite
made up her mind whether she’ll be re-
marrying her second husband for the third
time or her third husband for the second
time. Colonel Nasser will order that the
Egyptian armed services will do all their
drill at the double, and this will be
accepted as a directive that the Army is
to get away to a flying start in case the
country is invaded, and thus preserve its
best fighting traditions. An Adelaide
judge will ask counsel what a witness
meant when he said he thought some-
thing had tasted “onkus.”
Oct.: The chairman of the Mangel-
wurzel Marketing Board will express keen
disappointment at the failure of the
public to respond to the board’s publicity-
campaign to popularise the mangelwurzel
as a salad-vegetable. In a joint-statement
issued during a visit •to Eire, Messrs.
Bulganin and Khrushchev will declare
that, historically, ethnologically and geo-
graphically, Scotland and England, as well
as Northern Ireland, rightly belong to
Eire, which can depend on the Soviet’s
moral support in its struggle to right a
grievous wrong. The N.S.W. Lotteries
will begin drawing three lotteries a day,
and the unpaid debts of N.S.W. hospitals
will reach record figures.
Nov.: A Sydney judge will advocate
“party leave” each month for long-term
prisoners to prevent their becoming anti-
social. Marilyn Monroe will leave her
studio in a huff because she hasn’t been
given the role of Lady Macbeth in a
forthcoming production. Emperor Hiro-
hito of Japan will receive a gold-medal
for his poem, “To the Silverfish, Which
Chewed My Underpants.” Following
publication of a photo showing him
laughing at a Washington preview of a
Martin-and-Lewis slapstick comedy, a
Soviet diplomat will be recalled to Mos-
cow : three days later Moscow Radio will
announce with regret his death, caused
by warts on the liver.
Dec.: Simultaneously with the an-
nouncement that the estimated loss for
the year by the Mangelwurzel Marketing
Board will exceed £114,000 will be one
that the salary of the board’s chairman
is to be raised from £4250 to £5500. Sea-
men will threaten to tie-up all coastal
ships unless their demands for bath-salts,
hair-oil, nylon dungarees and finger-
bowls are met. A man who is rescued
by a lifesaver after having been swept
out to sea by a strong undertow will thank
his rescuer. The estate of a Labor poli-
tician, who used to describe himself as
“the representative of the horny-handed
wage-plug,” will be sworn for probate
at £183,000.
BO.


IX L
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Pachers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1878.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney*
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
rverbial Problems
L lOVERBIAL problems will
-* face Australia in an acute
n during this New Year. In-
quate productivity has be-
le almost a cliche when
bribing the fundamental
\ tkiless in our economy, but
i » a cliche that we shall have
to bear with if we are to
cope with the realities of the
situation.
High costs and inadequate pro-
ductivity are the two sides of
the same coin. We can toss the
coin about as we will, but one
side or the other comes up in
every case. What is needed is a
new type of industrial currency,
with increased production on
one side and lower costs on the
other. v
Rising costs have plagued
Australia for a number of years
without checking the exuberance
of our paper-money prosperity
to any great extent. This was
partly because of some inherited
strength dating back to the pre-
war years, and largely because
high export prices and a world
shortage of most commodities
masked the true position. The
Korean war saved the country
from a nasty jolt in 1952-53 and
later years—it sent the price of
wool soaring again. But now
wool is down very considerably,
and the old nagging problem is
revealing itself in an increasingly
acute form.
At the moment there is no
fortuitous circumstance in sight
which might offer a prospect of
relief from our inherent diffi-
culty. No reprieve is in the
offing. There possibly could be
one lurking round somewhere.
But it would only defer the fate-
ful day when a national stock-
taking will be forced on us and
a revaluation made in the light
of world conditions.
Between 1948-49 and 1954-55
average weekly wages almost
exactly doubled in Australia. In
that same period industrial out-
P ut was severely affected by the
40-hour week. There has been
recovery to something like pre-
war rates of man-week output
ih the manufacturing industries,
but overseas countries have left
us standing in this respect. We
are unable to compete with
Britain in most manufactures,
while in Germany costs are much
lower even than in Britain,
We have been left behind by
the more mature economies of
the United States and Europe,
and of Japan as well. While Aus-
tralia was slipping back under
the impact of the 40-hour week,
and then making some recovery,
productivity in the U.S.A.,
Canada, Britain, Germany and
Italy went steadily ahead,
Over the past six or seven
years the rise in costs in Aus-
tralia has been at a far greater
rate than that in any other major
country.
Our “prosperity” has been
high-cost, inflationary prosperity,
Most of us have been producing
too little while wanting to spend
too much. We are doing too
little for the money-wages we
receive. And we are sadly defi-
cient in necessary public works
and other capital goods. The
great national development—the
building, the roadmaking, the
railway-construction that a
visitor to Australia sees when he
arrives—is largely the result of
the efforts of an earlier genera-
tion of Australians.
In 1956 there is every prospect
that we shall have to face the
facts of economic life with more
determination than we have done
over the past 15 years. Some
’ old - established manufacturing
, and construction industries, as
'well as newer ones, are already
in difficulties. Management is
being put to the test, and wage-
earners who don’t pull their
weight will be in danger of losing
their jobs and causing others
to lose theirs.
Our low rate of production,
no longer bolstered by a high
export income, in itself is indi-
cative of tighter credit conditions.
Finance will be hard to get on
a fixed-interest basis. And that
will create difficulties for Govern-
ments, local-government bodies
and industry. The pinch is likely
to be felt by the sharemarket
also.
But, whatever our problems in
1956, most of them may still be
overcome by working harder and
more intelligently as a team.
And few in the long-run really
need be worse off. It is just a
question of adapting ourselves
to realities.
Overseas Balances
TTOLDING of “gold and
balances abroad” by the
central bank stood at £297
million in the penultimate week
of the Old Year, That is not
the full extent of our overseas
balances, but it is about £25
million lower than the average
for September, 1955, when the
Prime Minister made his “hold-
the-line” statement. Our
balances are still well within the
limit set by the P.M. But some
debt - servicing commitments
have to be met in the first half
of 1956.
Commonwealth-N.G.
Timbers
■pOR its first full year of
• operations Commonwealth-
N.G. Timbers, Ltd., earned a
net profit of £169,610. That
was after depreciation provision
of £101,306.
The company is jointly owned
by Bulolo Gold Dredging and
the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, with the latter owning
the controlling interest. It is
exploiting a stand of pine
timber in the Bulolo Valley.
From the permitted intake of
pine logs, 32-million square feet
of plywood was made, and it
was marketed in the United
States, Australia and New
Guinea. Lower costs are
expected as the plant runs in,
but timber-stands will get
farther away from the mill as
the closer areas are worked out.
Sawmill and joinery operations
should contribute more during
the current year.
After writing-off previous
losses and establishment
expenses, a credit balance of
£89,985 is carried forward.
Transport Failure
/''VNE of Australia’s gre a t
economic problems is that
of transport. Transport in-
dustries in particular are at the
mercy of trade-unions and State
Governments which are run by
trade-unions, and the 40-hour
week bears with special heaviness
on almost all forms of transport.
It is not practicable to speed-up
either land- or sea-transport very
much, in which case the reduc-
tion of nearly 10 p.c. in hours
worked each week is an un-
avoidable burden.
The Tariff Board has com-
mented that before the war most
goods were carried by rail or
water, and there was evidence of
competition between the two;
road-transport was developing,
but was not important, whilst
carriage of goods by air was
negligible. Now, in spite of the
the existence of four forms of
transport, costs of shifting goods
have increased much more than
has the cost of goods themselves.
The board also notes that the
increasing use being made of air-
transport for goods normally
freighted by the other three
methods suggests either that air-
freights are becoming increas-
ingly competitive, or that the
older services are inefficient or
insufficient.
“I Want you to make a careful audit of the cashier's hooks.
He hasn't been pestering me for a rise lately."
A Tariff Board inquiry into
Australian shipbuilding provided
evidence of a steep increase in
sea-freights since the war and
showed that many ships are old
and- inefficient —also, that there
was “no spirited move to replace
them.” There was evidence also
of a big decline in general
cargo carried in ships, with
the trend towards bulk cargo,
in which they have a monopoly.
There was little evidence of
internal competition in the
coastal shipping trade.
As to rail-freights, the board
has had no opportunity of
examining them. It points out
that almost all the railway-sys-
tems are Government-owned and
-controlled and suspects that, in
many instances, policy regard-
ing freights and modernisation
of the services is influenced more
by Budget considerations than
by consideration of the broad
national interest. (The Bulletin
would add that the attitude of the
States to road-transport lacks
the national approach also.)
The hesitancy of the N.S.W.
Government in particular to
move with the times is shown by
its reluctance to put diesel loco-
motives on to its railways. But
in 1953-54 the Commonwealth
Government, on the Transcon-
tinental Railway, operated diesels
at a cost of £230,925 where
steam-locomotion would have
cost £1,063,851. On a mileage
basis diesels cost 41.2 d., com-
pared with 189.2 d. for steam.
Components of the mileage fig-
ures include, for diesel, 16.6 d. for
fuel, crew’s wages 12.4 d., main-
tenance 6d. For steam the cor-
responding figures were, fuel
64.8 d., crew’s wages 23.7 d.,
maintenance 29.3 d.
The Commonwealth Railways
Commissioner has reported that
“the economies effected have
more than repaid the capital
cost of the locomotives in the
last two years alone.”
To this the Tariff Board adds:
“Cost-reductions on this scale
over all the railway-systems of
the Commonwealth would, if
reflected in freight-rates, have a
more widespread effect on costs
than on the mere costs of trans-
port of goods by rail. There is
no doubt that the control over
road-transport and the imposts
paid by road-hauliers are in-
fluenced by the need to make
public transport-systems pay;
hence, if rail-freights were
reduced, there would be scope
for reductions of imposts on
road-transport.
“The board considers that the
transport problem is of such com-
plexity that it will not be solved
by the action of individual units
acting independently. Subsidiary
to the main problem are separate
problems of great magnitude
such as the break-of-gauge in
the railway-systems, the moderni-
sation of the coastal shipping-
fleet, the construction and
maintenance of highways for
road-transport and the extension
of air-facilities for air-transport;
and none of these can be deter-
mined without a proper appreci-
ation of defence needs, of Budget
demands, of the development of
the motor-vehicle industry in
Australia, of the nature, source
and cost of fuel, and of the
need for keeping down costs that
press so heavily on primary and
secondary industries.
“Agreement at the highest level
on broad policy is essential, as
is also a recognition that Aus-
tralia, with its vast distances
between large centres and with
much of its exports produced
outback, cannot afford make-
shift arrangements and must be
prepared to scrap inefficient
methods if it is to hold its place
in competition with other
countries.”
Transport costs, as the board
points out, affect costs of all
primary and secondary produc-
tion, and at present appear to
be “an undisciplined force.”
Earthmoving Plant
AN Australian industry which
has shown great expansion
since the end of World War II
is that engaged in the production
of earthmoving machinery.
The bulldozer is a “natural”
in the present Australian
scheme of things. Only
crawler-tractors and other power-
units, large-capacity excavators
and special-purpose machines in
limited demand lie outside the
range of local production. Plans
have been announced to produce
in Australia major components
of crawler-tractors. Malcolm
Moore Industries, Ltd., Mel-
bourne, through a subsidiary,
proposes soon to deliver Chal-
lenger crawler-tractors with
between 20 p.c. and 30 p.c. Aus-
tralian content.
The whole Australian industry
employs about 3500 persons,
and last year produced equip-
ment valued at about £l2 million,
representing roughly 80 per cent,
of total Australian requirements
of construction and earthmoving
equipment, apart from tractors.
(Continued on next page )


-T-V
Good Reward
People lose money every day—m one month
there were 47 advertisements in one morn-
ing daily newspaper offering rewards foe
the return of money lost in wallets, parses,
and hand-bags. The amounts lost varied
from “a large sum” and "five-pound notes” to
"four weeks’ holiday-pay”, and the rewards
offered ranged from "good” to "generous”.
The way to avoid losing “large sums*
of money is not to carry them, and you can
do this"if you make a practice of paying by
cheque. A cheque account with the Bank
of New South Wales is simple, safe, and
convenient.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
★ Enquire at any branch of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST AND LARGEST TRADING BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(IHOOBFOBATXD IN NEW BOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITT)
A5549C
KEROSENE
TfTTOQ
PRESSURE
lamps
j>urn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON I* PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia . In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
During the year ended
September, 1955, the value of
production was 40 p.c. higher
than for the previous 12 months.
Price-increases accounted for
about p.c. of this increase.
Compared with the actual level
of production a year ago, the
increase is more than 25 p.c.
During the past six months an
upward trend noted in April has
continued, and a further 15 p.c.
lift in production has been
achieved.
Firms in New South Wales as
well as those in Victoria have
shared in this increase. The in-
dustry is now busier than it was
12 months ago, but some firms
are working well below capacity.
Overall, approximately 80 p.c.
of capacity is being utilised.
In Victoria, outstanding orders
have been reduced, and now
represent only four months’ pro-
duction. In N.S.W. there has
been a reduction both in the
rate of ordering and in the
volume of outstanding orders.
Unless the rate of receipt of new
orders improves over • the next
few months, some revision of
manufacturing programmes will
be necessary.
The volume of imports of con-
struction and earthmoving equip-
ment increased in 1955. Imports
(including stone-crushing
machinery) in 1954-55 totalled
about £3.5 million, compared
with just over £3 million in the
previous year. Competition from
imports continues to cause con-
cern to some sections of the
industry.
The industry has made repre-
sentations to the Federal Govern-
ment concerning the level of
imports and hopes to get a
greater share of the available
market. The dampening effects
of credit-restrictions and lower
Government spending may there-
fore be avoided., but, according
to investigations by the Division
of Industrial Development, a
cautious attitude prevails, par-
ticularly in N.S.W.
Steel-supplies have improved,
and stocks are now more evenly
balanced. Some firms, however,
continue to operate largely on
imported steel. The supply of
steel castings has also improved,
but delivery delays of up to three
months are quoted for new work.
During the past 12 months the
major cost-components increased
by about 10 p.c. In some cases
increased production enabled
unit-costs to be held fairly steady.
Generally, prices have increased
or are about to be increased by
between 8 p.c. and 12 p.c. Some
firms have not raised their prices,
and one firm has reported a
slight reduction over the past
six months.
Employment has increased by
10 p.c. since April, and 20 p.c.
over the past 12 months. The
labor situation has eased slightly
since April, but overtime is still
general. There has been an
increased tendency to obtain
=r p % fromsubcon -
A b P»“ to^
competition from imports. In
addition, stocks held for disposal
by public authorities continue to
depress the market The industry
as a whole therefore looks on
the future prospects with caution,
Unless there is an improvement
in the order position over the
next few months, present levels
of production may be difficult
to maintain. There is some hope,
according to the D.1.D., that a
greater share of the available
market will be obtained in 1956,
particularly by those sections
which have suffered most
severely in the past from import
competition.
London Airmail.
From Herbert Holman
TTIS constant troubles over,
Clement Attlee is a much-
relieved man. Yet, viewed
objectively, his rather testy,
backstairs withdrawal is a sad
end to an unsparing 35 years of
public service.
A well-to-do young man of
high education and gallant mili-
tary conduct felt so keenly for
the sufferings of the poor that
he devoted his life to their cause,
drifting into politics on their
behalf. By accident, as it were,
he became stop-gap leader and,
by merit and political acumen,
so consolidated his status as
never to be seriously challenged
(the Laski intervention was ab-
surdly gauche). In war-time he
overcame the pacifist tendencies
of his party and served with dis-
tinction in the War Cabinet and
with loyalty to his rival, Chur-
chill. He swept into govern-
ment on a tide of popularity,
initiated a social revolution and
steered the Labor party away
from the virulent Marxism
endemic on the Continent; and
he held the leadership for 20
years—the longest tenure since
Gladstone.
Yet, by the time of his party’s
third, decisive defeat at the polls
in May, 1955, he was a
politically broken man, as the
television cameras clearly
showed.
To a professional politician of
long experience there can be
worse' happenings than failure,
followed by overthrow. Mr.
Attlee’s main worries were two-
fold : jealousy, dissension and
acrimony in the camp; and, more
upsetting, the dismal failure of
his creed either to adapt itself to
the times or to appeal to an
electorate now freed from the
agonies of his younger days.
“The young people,” he said,
disconsolately* “seem to have
forgotten what happened in the
past.”
Always loyal to his cause, he
remained at the helm because
his abrupt withdrawal earlier
would have plunged his riven
party into—who knew what?
When he decided to step down
it was because the background
noises were so discordant as to
be quite intolerable.
There was, for him, no limpid
fanfare in honor and respect.
Whose Hush?
One regrettable element in
his passing was that old, familiar
touch of uncharitableness to-
wards a disfavored colleague.
He made sure, by his timing,
that Herbert Morrison’s chances
would be at their lowest. Thus
another respected elder-states-
man sees a lifetime’s service re-
duced to ingratitude and disillu-
sionment. In view of Morrison’s
firm belief that the political
future of his party lay in adapt-
ing itself tp the needs of the
British people, as distinct from
giving them stronger doses of
doctrinaire Socialism, the loss
to the Right is severe.
Oddly enough, the new leader,
Hugh Gaitskell, was accorded
just such a bright flourish as his
predecessor was denied. The
Labor party has never before
given a young hopeful so as-
siduous a grooming nor so over-
whelming a return. Moreover,
the wider world applauds his
success. Will he, it is asked, be
the architect of a virile and re-
sponsible Opposition, capable of
providing the potential alterna-
tive government essential to the
two-party system?
Insofar as he is probably the
only figure in the Labor party
capable of even making a start
on this formidable task, his elec-
tion is to the general good. He
has the intellect, the patience
and the capacity for such a
transformation, all things being
equal. Successively the pro-
tege of Dalton, Cripps and
Attlee, the darling of the T.U.C.
and respected, though distantly,
by the masses, he has already
considerable status as well as re-
sources of conciliation indispens-
able to a leader.
But he will, nevertheless, have
to work miracles. He has no
lieutenants comparable in stature
to Bevin, Cripps and Morrison.
And, like Attlee, his affinity with
the working-class is purely sen-
timental —and he has nothing of
the East End background that
put Attlee above class suspi-
cion.
To strive for unity he must
win over the diehard Blimps in
the constituencies and assimilate
—or vanquish—the Bevan jack-
in-the-box. That he is alive to
this is plain enough from recent
and extremely blatant divaga-
tions from the cold impartiality
of a clearsighted economist.
Whether he achieves his end
remains to be seen. But the
means, however determined, do
not promise to be edifying. Al-
though he is unlikely to pin his
flag to nationalisation or even
to the dog-eared tenets of the
party constitution, he must find
some emotional banner to parade
before the near-converted. This
will probably be the formula,
roughly: An intensification of
the attack on “Tory inequality,”
plus redistribution of income,
plus an ultimate classless society.
In other words, still more class-
war.
This is the paradox: Simply
because he is, socially and pol-
itically, well to the Right he
is bound to take an apparent
stand more extreme than that
of his predecessor’s self-avowed
Left of Centre.
No Retreat from Moscow
The “assistance and promo-
tion of cultural relations with
the U.S.S.R.” seems to be im-
mune from the suspicions and
uncertainties which so blemish
other dealings with that re-
public. They send us dancers
which a London impresario
presents commercially for profit.
We send them “Hamlet,” which,
though capacity-booked, runs
into a five-figure deficit, the
Soviet Minister of Culture’s
share amounting to at least
250,000 roubles (say, £BOOO
Australian).
It is understood that the
Foreign Office made the first
move last spring and that the
British Council conducted the
negotiations. The Russians
asked specially for a Shak-
spearian play. This was not
easy to arrange, since neither
the Old Vic nor Stratford-on-
Avon was available. So
Tennent Productions obliged
with the first of its Peter Brook-
Paul Scofield season.
It is not the easiest of exer-
cises to sit in the Phoenix
Theatre and imagine oneself to
be a Muscovite watching foreign
actors and having to rely upon
headphones for a running trans-
lation, but it enables one to
appreciate the forethought and
consummate craft that have
been applied to this production.
Peter Brook (who speaks
Russian and who has never be-
fore directed a play) has con-
trived, by streamlining the
action and highlighting the
dialogue, to present a stylised
amalgam of picture, mood, de-
clamation and forthright
histrionics, the whole, distinct
from the usual Russian lavish-
ness, being sombre and austere.
The actors serve him well,
especially in their avoidance of
hamminess where the situations
are wide open for it (such as,
for instance, having to man-
oeuvre themselves from near
the prompt-corner to upstage-
centre to deliver a rhymed
couplet). Scofield’s Hamlet is,
speaking figuratively, excellent
gymnastics: the full projection
permits of neither subtlety nor
subjective interpretation but
rather amounts to a display of
technique; he acquits himself
with all the economy of effort
of an athlete at the peak of
training. Hence his reading is
without depth or subtlety. He
appears, on the surface, to be
grave and overconscientious
about his responsibilities, en-
tirely humorless and of a sanity
that is only mildly affected in
moments of passionate anger.
Alec Clunes’s Claudius is
graphic and of superb dramatic
presence, but the kindest we
have ever seen. Ernest The-
siger’s Polonius is a gem,
firmly-sketched, yet with no more
than a suggestion of pomposity
and sycophancy. The women
are not quite as telling as the
men, although Diana Wynyard’s
Gertrude conveys a certain pre-
dilection for being easily-led.
Mary Ure appears mistakenly
to have modelled her Ophelia
on our own traditional upper-
crust, even to a stiff upper-lip
and a Sunningdale accent, but
the tartiness of her madness has
pathological realism.
Except for the First Grave-
digger, played with a ripe fresh-
ness by Harry H. Corbett, the
production entirely lacks humor.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
VOU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview with
Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring your
responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite simply
arranged, and you will be immediately freed from the
irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy
of the Company’s helpful booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” be posted free to you.
’ —DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN O. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd.—the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD;
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McFARRANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless (A’sia), Ltd.
t>Y the end of 1956, or thereabouts,
Australia will have television. And
A.W.A. is to provide the electronic and
other transmission equipment for four of
the first six stations to be erected —one
Government and two commercial in both
Sydney and Melbourne. The Govern-
ment stations are estimated to cost about
£373,000 each to equip, and are the first
of a projected network of 14 stations to
be erected over a period of seven years.
They will have a range of about 50 miles.
In practice, however, the programme
range can be extended by satellite or
relay stations connected by radio-links
or coaxial cables —Tele-Luxembourg
(Europe), which now has a reception-
radius of 120 miles, is a case in point.
Indeed, new developments in propaga-
tion technique suggest that world tele-
vision is a possibility in the not-too-
distant future.
As a shareholder in Amalgamated
Television Services, Ltd.—one of the
two Sydney commercial stations in
which John Fairfax and Sons and others
are also shareholders —A.W.A. will be
directly interested in TV broadcasting as
well, and has recently entered into an
agreement with the National Broadcast-
ing Co. (U.S.A.) to distribute its tele-
vision films for programming in Aus-
tralia. And arrangements have been made
with the Radio Corporation of America
to form a jointly-owned subsidiary to
make phonograph-records in Australia
under the R.C.A. label, of which
A.W.A. will be sole distributor.
The co. will, of course, manufacture
TV-receivers for sale direct to the public.
First releases will be 17-inch sets, origin-
ally estimated to cost about £l5O, includ-
ing sales-tax; but subsequent rises in
wage-rates and cost of materials might
bump up the figure by the time these sets
get on to the market. Estimated Aus-
tralian sales for the first four years have
been put at 9500, 25,500, 78,000 and
115,000, a total of 335,000 for the period.
Competition in this field promises to be
very keen.
More money will be needed for de-
velopment of the television and engineer-
ing sections to provide facilities for
manufacture, and for stocks of both raw
materials and finished products. But no
hint is given as to the amount likely to
be involved, or whether shareholders will
be asked to assist. “It may be some little
time before we gain the benefit of our
expenditure,” the board says. Overseas
experience in connection with TV-equip-
ment is that servicing and sales of parts
have been the best contributors to net
earnings.
Meanwhile, the existing business con-
tinues to expand and to turn in satis-
factory profits. It includes production
of broadcast-transmitters, radar, vehicu-
lar-operated traffic-signals, and marine-
and aerial-navigation equipment, etc., all
of which are largely the requirements
of Government and other public bodies.
Some of the co.’s products have won an
international market in the aerial and
maritime fields, and some have been
adopted by the British Army. Research,
however, especially in the widening field
of electronics, is an expensive item. In
addition the co. turns out broadcast-
receivers and radiograms, is interested
in eight subsidiary and associated con-
cerns, and holds a large number of
patents covering specific aspects of radio,
radar and television.
Last term all operating sections contri-
buted to a growth of £1,314,128 (26.6
p.c.) in turnover (£6,243,683). After
allowing £145,983 (up £37,693) for depre-
ciation and unspecified amounts for taxa-
tion, etc., the net result benefited by only
£16,772:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1951.. 149,938 Ilf p.c. = 73,036 76,902 1,326,754
1952.. 155,398 Ilf „ „ 83,470 71,928 1,398,682
Reserves capitalised, £125,205 .. 1,273,477
Share premiums, £34,780 .. .. 1,308,257
1953.. 190,985 12$ p.c. = 108,685 82,300 1,390,557
Profit sale assets, £25,025 .. .. 1,415,582
1954.. 247,071 15 p.c. = 146,072 100,999 1,516,581
Share premiums, £32,187 .. .. 1,548,768
Added reserves, £3123 .. .. 1,551,891
1955.. 263,843 15 p.c. = 146,072 117,771 1,669,662
•After deducting intangibles, now £85,811, and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £1,345,792).
The £263,843 of profit claimed was 27.1
p.c. on average capital as against 25.3,
21.9, 21.9, 24.1, 22.5 and 21.6 p.c. back to
1949. The distribution was maintained
at 15 p.c., of which 2\ p.c. is called
bonus, not to be regarded as a permanent
feature, the chairman says. On share-
holders’ net tangible funds the profit was
approximately 10 p.c.
Continued growth of the undertaking
is further reflected in net additions of
£228,360 to plant, etc., and £370,701 to
stocks, to help meet which book-debts
were reduced by £82,902 and £152,284
was added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, etc., and shareholders
put up £160,938 of fresh capital
(£128,751) and share-premiums (£32,187)
—final call on the 1953 new share-
issue :
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .-. £973,815 £973.815 £1,102,566
Reserves .. .. 1,476,370 1,602,394 1,755,473
Depreciation reserve 1,126,116 1,228,470 1,345,792
Sundry creditors, etc. 1,328,126 1,272,042 1,424,326
Final div. .. 66,950 97,382 97,381
£4,971,377 £5,174,103 £5,725,538
Freeholds, etc.* .. 574,741 534,106 684,772
Plant, etc.* .. 1,161,182 1,313,349 1,541,709
Shares ... .. 288,400 288,400 303,177
Stocks ... 1,847,729 1,866,529 2,237,230
Book debts ~ 982,209 1,021,008 938,106
Cash, etc. .. 31,305 64,900 34,733
Intangibles ... 85,811 85,811 85,811
£4,971,377 £5,174,103 £5,725,538
*At cost, subject to specific reserves (now
£1,345,792).
The more-or-less liquid surplus
(£1,688,362) was £105,349 stronger,
despite the outlay on fixed assets.
Prepared to wait for its benefits, the
market prices the f.-p. ss. shares at
17s. 9d. (20s. 3d. a year ago) to return
4.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. distribution. A 5.6 p.c.
return would require a 20 p.c. distri-
bution, or, say, a one-for-two new share-
issue at par and a \s\ p.c. div., which
would then call for only £8347 more
profit than was claimed last term. Net
tangible cover is 12s. 6d. (book-value).
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
'T'HE immediate return from the co.’s
f.-p. £1 shares at the current price
of 665. (61s. a year ago) is an unexciting
3.8 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. Still,
taking the long view, the scrip may well
contribute to the basis of a sound invest-
ment portfolio. A 15 p.c. distribution
would lift the yield to 4.5 p.c., and last
term’s net return from investments alone
(£297,159, up £46,838) was equal to 19.8
p.c. on capital.
The dividend is usually covered, more-
or-less, by returns from investments,
leaving the underwriting surplus, or most
of it, available to swell investments and
returns therefrom. This policy of profits-
allocation ensures strong reserves, with
a consequent high earning-power in rela-
tion to capital alone, and, at intervals, in-
creases in the amount distributed as
dividends as well as the issue of bonus-
scrip. Also, during a period of rapid
extension of the underwriting field, share-
holders may be asked to contribute fresh
cash-paid capital on favorable terms.
At September 30 last this big Sydney-
controlled fire, marine and accident
office, which has world-wide connections,
had reserves totalling £4,777,426, of which
£2,275,000 was earmarked for unexpired
risks. Paid capital stood at £1,500,000,
having been doubled by a par issue early
in 1951 to help finance, the widening
of activities overseas. It was the
first time shareholders had been
called upon for over 40 years,
the capital account having advanced
from £75,000 in 1910 to £750,000 in 1934
by transfers from reserves. Appearances
are that, for some years ahead, benefits
are likely to come firstly from a lift in
the dividend, and then, when the cautious
board considers the time appropriate, the
issue of bonus-scrip.
The improvement of £29,913 in last
term’s profit came wholly from invest-
ments, the net underwriting surplus was
lighter again:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£.£ £ £
1952.. 285,215 12i p.c. =140,625 144,590 3,474,329
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,459,329
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000.. 3,684,329
1953.. 323,664 12$ p.c. =152,344 171,320 3,855,649
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,840,649
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 3,990,649
1954.. 370,932 12i p.c. =187,500 183,432 4,174,081
To staff fund. £15,000 4,159,081
From inner reserves, £200,000 .. 4,359,081
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000.. 4,584,081
1955.. 400,845 12i p.c. =187,500 213,345 4,797,426
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 4,777,426
The £400,845 of profit claimed was a
comfortable 26.7 p.c. on capital as
against 24.7, 21.5, 25.3 and 22.2 p.c. back
to 1951. It consisted of 19.8 p.c. net
return from investments (£297,159) and
6.9 p.c. net underwriting surplus
(£103,686). The 12| p.c. div. was thus
more than twice covered by net returns
from all sources. That leaves out of the
reckoning a disclosure of £200,000 of
inner reserves and £225,000 added to the
reserve for unexpired risks.
The £200,000 brought from hiding was
used to form a wholly-owned subsidiary,
Associated Insurances, Ltd. (paid capital
£200,000), which will reinsure some of
the parent’s risks. When the offshoot
becomes firmly established, it is intended
to write business direct with the public.
The parent’s shareholders might then be
given an opportunity to subscribe new
capital.
Net premium income increased by
£451,506:
Net Loss Expense
Sept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses.* Rate. Rate.
£ £ £ p.c. p.c.
1951. .2,469,470 1,124,171 993,429 45.5 40.2
1952. .3,029,330 1,455,242 1,123,942 48.0 37.1
1953.. 3.040.480.1,495,828 1,184,899 49.2 39.0
1954.. 3,119,449 1,651,667 1,197,171 52.9 38.3
1955. .3,570,955 1,913,830 1,328,439 53.6 37.2
* Includes contributions to staff fund, but excludes
taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
Another pleasing feature is the continued
drop in the expense-rate, down 225. p.c.
last term. Workers’ compensation and
motor-vehicle risks were mainly respon-
sible for the growth of 14s. p.c. in the
loss rate. The gross underwriting sur-
plus (£328,686) was £58,075 stronger,
but the net figure (£103,686) was £16,925
lighter, due to bigger provision for un-
expired risks (£225,000, up £75,000),
making the reserve for this purpose
£2,275,000, equal to 63.7 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 40 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
The strong protection for both policy-
holders and shareholders is in this
form:
t 1954 v 1955 N
p.c. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £3,791.686 41.2 £3,662,159 37.6
Cash, etc. . .. 586,409 6.4 636,708 6.5
Shares, etc. . . 1,685,125 18.3 2,183,023 22.4
Mortgages .. 953,281 10.4 936,488 9.6
Book debts .. 1,006,112 10.9 1,121,887 11.6
Freeholds .. 1,176,856 12.8 1,196,995 12.3
Total assets ..£9,199,469 100.6 £9,737,260 100.0
Liabilities* .. 3,540,387 3,346,083
Net assets .. £5,659,082 £6,391,177
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
The year’s net addition of £497,898 to
shareholdings, etc., and contraction of
£129,527 in Government securities partly
reflect formation of the new subsidiary.
Concrete Industries (Australia ), Ltd.
TT is perhaps trite, but still true, to
-*■ remark that a statistical approach to
a likely share-investment may have cer-
tain demerits unless coupled with a know-
ledge of the trading background of the
co. in question and some appreciation of
its trading prospects. This group—
parent holding co. and 25 subsidiaries—
is in the concrete-construction trade. It
kicked off as Cement Linings, Ltd., in
1936, and has been well-handled and
profitable from the start.
The name was changed to the present
title in 1946, when a 45-acre block at
Villawood, near Sydney, was bought
from the Federal Government, and a
vigorous programme of expansion began.
Here various subsidiaries have set up
alongside each other, and operations fol-
low flow-lines, the aim being to quicken
and cheapen production. Activities,
which are nation-wide, range from manu-
facture, reconditioning and lining of
water-supply pipes (the line on which the
business grew up) to erection of “Mono-
crete” homes, factories and other build-
ings, production of concrete tiles, bricks
and pre-stressed beams, and a variety of
other concrete products used by public
authorities and in rural and secondary
industries. Total output is taken in
fairly even proportions by the building
trade and civil-engineering and public-
works projects.
Divs. averaged 10.6 p.c. for the first
six years, followed by a steady 5 p.c.
for the five years to 1945. The rate rose
from 6 p.c. in 1946 to 10 p.c. in 1951
and has remained steady at the same
generous level since. Generous because
the margin is comparatively narrow and
the prop for capital slender —when the
books last closed the £720,218 of capital
had the support and assistance of only
£82,829 of reserves, subject to £18,567
of intangibles. Still, it has been a satis-
factory performance considering the
rapid growth of the undertaking—in 1946
paid capital was £lOO,OOO.
For the year to June 30 last most of
the factories worked to capacity in all
States, and turnover (amount unstated)
was a record. But competition and the
upcreep of costs kept margins narrow.
After allowing £41,810 (up £2270) for
depreciation and £46,500 (up £19,000) for
taxation, the improvement in the net
result was £10,751:
► Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividend.—— x serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Assets revalued, £45,000 .. .. 88,371
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 38,371
Capital-issue exp. written-off, £1667.. 36,704
1951.. 52,638 10 p.c. = 34,359 18,279 54,983
Capital-issue exp. written-off, £1667.. 53,316
1952 ..53,001 10 p.c. = 45,756 7,245 60,561
1953.. 67,503 10 „ „ 54,347 3,156 63,717
Share premiums, £6870 .. .. 70,587
Capital-issue exp. written-off, £3601.. 66,986
1954.. 67,097 10 p.c. = 58,232 8,865 75,851
1955.. 77,848 10 „ „ 70,870 6,978 82,829
* Subject to intangibles, £18,567 at 30/6/’55.
The £77,848 of profit was 11 p.c. on aver-
age capital as against 11.5, 10.6, 11.6 and
15.3 p.c. back to 1951.
The big question for the future is what
effect the tightening of credit will have
upon turnover and profits. S<bme curb-
ing of capital outlay in both the public
and private 'Sectors of the economy can
be expected. On the other hand there is
overriding condition of further expansion
of the economy as the flow of migrants,
backed by natural increase of population,
continues. So the slowing-down of ex-
penditure on capital projects may not be
very severe. And orders on hand are
sufficient to ensure a satisfactory result
for the current term, the chairman says.
However, stronger competition and the
continued upsurge in wage-rates can be
expected to bite deeper into profit-
margins. The 10 p.c. div. is therefore by
no means secure.
When the books closed there was


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Officer.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIS &
OSUIJJVAjv
wfa. aw
6RC>
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers* Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BATTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
INSURANCE SUPERVISION
There are many advantages in letting an
experienced firm of Insurance Brokers and
Supervisors handle your Insurances.
Their wide experience is of great value
in the preparation and supervision of
Insurances and attendance to claims.
No charge whatever is made for this
service, and no change need be made in
your present Insurance Companies.
Consult, without obligation—
RAWLINGS & GARDNER Pty.,
Ltd.,
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors,
16 Spring St., Sydney. BU 3445
108 Queen St., Melbourne. MU 4081
FaHA in tJic
Future
DAVIES & COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
mm.
Another year has closed, a new calendar
comes out . . .
Looking back on 1955, I think we can say
it was a good year, in general. At any rate, it
brought the world economically to a better condition
than ever before.
The picture isn’t perfect. It probably never
will be to the idealistic eye, for change is a
“constant” in living. But this much can be seen
in reward for the effort of 10 post-war years:
The reconstruction of war-wracked countries
is being completed, millions are better fed,
production is far above pre-war levels, and
stability has been restored to the currency of many
nations.
It was my good fortune to spend several
months of 1955 in the United States and Canada,
in a climate of high prosperity.
The North American continent went on
advancing at amazing pace during the year. The
gross national product of the U.S.A. in the
September quarter rose to the record annual rate
of 391,500 million dollars, equal to £174,000 million
in Australian money.
I quote that stupendous figure because it
shows how American industry is propping up the
strength of world stability. In sight of the confidence
expressed in long-term assessments of the economy,
it is a happy pointer to the future.
" To the healthier condition of the world, Britain
also is contributing. And that is important to us
because of the strong bond we have in kinship and
commerce with the United Kingdom.
Such is the world setting in which Australia
faces 1956.
The year, no doubt, will present us with
national problems, but they will be only a test of
our worth as a people.
With a show of that Courage which the
pioneers have bred into us, we can make 1956 one
more brilliant stage in Australia’s march forward.
// *
7
ELECTRIC LIFTS hydraulic
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
10s. 3d. belonging to the bank
and sundry creditors at risk in
the business for every £ of share-
holders’ funds:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
£> £> £
Paid capital 550,000 687,746 720,218
Reserves . . 63,717 75,851 82,829
Overdraft .. 198,750 224,690 189,243
Creditors . . 84,730 190,223 223,504
Tax provis’n 40,385 29,618 43,587
Final divs. 27,500 30,732 35,819
* 965,082 1,238,860 1,295,200
Land, build-
ings, plant 446,759 494,312 525,838
Shares .. 66,045 66,539
Stock . . 344,887 380,159 422,295
Debtors .. 154,460 279,350 261,505
Cash .. 409 427 456
Intangibles .. 18,567 18,567 18,567
965,082 1,238,860 1,295,200
During the year £35,447 was
clipped off the overdraft, £31,526
more was spent on fixed assets
than was written-off, and
£42,136 was added to stocks, in
at cost or under. To help meet
the outlay book-debts were
reduced by £17,845, the amount
coming to sundry creditors was
increased by £33,281, and share-
holders put up £32,472 of fresh
capital—final call on the 1954
new share-issue.
The shareholding is in Red-
land Tiles (Aust.), Ltd., in which
Redland Tiles, Ltd. (U.K.), is
also interested. The plant, which
is to turn out cement tiles of
Roman design, is due to start-
up within the next few weeks.
Since the beginning of 1955
the price of the f.-p. £1 ords.
fluctuated between 295. 9d. and
255. At 265. 6d. (last sales) the
return is 7.6 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover is
21s. 9d.
Beard Watson & Co., Ltd.
THERE is a time-lag between
the period during which a
co. earns profits and when it
reports them. During this lag
changes can occur in the
economic position which react
on the investment outlook, and
therefore upon the market for
the shares. For the year to July
31 last trade generally was
buoyant, and so was the share-
market. Then the balance-of-pay-
ments position threatened
trouble, import-restrictions were
imposed, money became pro-
gressively tighter, and the hire-
purchase finance-houses were
asked to restrict their lending.
At the same time wage-rates and
other costs strengthened. Fear-
ing the effects upon trade
generally, investors revised their
estimates of prospects, and there
was a general easing of share-
prices during the last half of
1955.
Hence the f.-p. £1 ords. in
B.W. and Co., which has a sound
financial structure and enjoys a
prominent position in the high-
and medium-grade furniture,
furnishing-drapery, china, glass-
ware and kitchenware trades,
etc., rose from 275. 6d. at the
beginning of 1955 to 425. in July
last and then eased steadily to
325. at the close of the year. The
return at 325. is 6.6 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis. The 7 p.c.
first and 8 p.c. second prefs. at
235. and 245. yield 6.1 p.c. and
6.6 p.c. respectively. Net tangible
cover is £27 9s. 4d. firsts,
£l4 ss. 4d. seconds and 38s. lOd.
ords.
During the last few years the
management has given a lot of
attention to brightening the store,
improving display and shopping
facilities for customers, whose
wants have been re-examined
and inventories adjusted, all
without any sacrifice of the high
standard of service for which the
store is noted. Turnover isn’t
disclosed, but Government
statistics show substantial in-
creases in sales for practically
all the co.’s lines for the 12
months to June 30 last.
Still, keen competition and the
evergreen costs problem kept the
gain in net earnings moderate.
After setting aside £5115 (down
£1394) for depreciation, £40,467
(down £2538) for taxation and
whatever was considered neces-
sary for sundry contingencies, the
cautious board figured profit
only £5478 better at £73,010:- —
, Dividends N
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Re-
Jly.,Profit. 7 p.c. 74 p.c. 74 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
’49..59,783 2100 3938 28,627 122,550
’5O-59,924 2100 3938 28,627 147,810
Inner res. disclosed, £69,000t. 216,810
’5l-91,518 2100 3938 28,626 278,664
Federal land tax surplus,
£8075 281,739
’52-49,649 2100 3937 28,627 296,724
’53-46,422 2100 8937 28,627 308,482
8 p.c. 10 p.c.
’54-67,262 2100 4200 38,168 331,276
’55-73,010 2100 4200 38,168 359,818
* After deducting goodwill, £67,660.
t From stock reserve, £51,500, and con-
tingencies reserve, £17,500.
The pref. divs. —they are sub-
ject to the, outmoded N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act of 1931
—called for £6300. The balance
of the year’s profit was 17.4 p.c.
on the £381,687 of ord. capital,
compared with 15.9, 10.5, 11.3,
22.3 and 14 p.c. back to 1950.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
that rate appears to be in no
immediate danger, although
trade shows signs of becoming
sticky in spots.
The financial position im-
proved, and the outside debt is
moderate, which means much in
a period of tight money:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital—
Pref. .. £82,500 £82,600 £82,500
Ord. .. 381,687 381,687 381,687
Reserves .. 876,142 398,936 427,478
Creditors, etc. 92,749 132,661 156,911
Tax provis’n 29,500 44,500 42,100
Final divs... 20,772 28,668 28,668
983,850 1,068,952 1,119,844
Freeholds,
etc. .. 332,852 332,852 832,852
Plant .. 14,190 10,395 12,035
Stocks .. 456,862 517,920 556,705
Debtors .. 110,386 138,725 143,240
Cash. etc. .. 1,400 1,400 6,852
Intangibles. 67,660 67,660 67,660
983,350 1,068,952 1,119,344
Stocks (up £38,785) are clean
and appear at “not exceeding
cost”; they are the most vul-
nerable point in the co.’s armor.
All recent improvements to the
store have been written off out of
earnings. The year’s growth in
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£479,118) was £26,902.
New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd.
The co. has changed its
balancing-date from September
30 to June 30. Latest accounts
thus cover the nine months to
mid-1955. During this period
the mill handled 31,223 tons of
0.3720 z. ore, and 3511 tons of
0.2720 z. heavy battery-sands,
for 10,0220 z. fine gold and
12,4790 z. silver. And the saw-
mill, , the co.’s best profit-
earner, turned out 1,774,859
super feet of sawn timber. The
profit from mining was £9497
and from timber, etc., £38,893,
a total of £48,390, or 5 p.c. on
the £950,371 of capital, which
is in 4,472,332 shares of 4s. 3d.
each.
Profit for the preceding 12
months was £32,712, of which
£13,967 came from mining and
£18,745 from timber, etc. So
it was timber that put the spring
in the latest profit-figure.
During the year £150,000 was
transferred from general
reserves to a goldmining-profit
reserve, from which a 3d. div.,
or 5.9 p.c. (£55,904), was paid
in February last, and another
3d. a share was sent out from
the same source on December
22.
Ore reserves at June 30, 1955,
were put at 127,151 tons (down
20,000 tons), or a little over
three years ahead of the mill at
last term’s annual rate of
throughput. However, more
ore, some of it better-than-
average-grade, is being exposed
at the Golden Peaks and Home-
stead leases, but the tonnage has
not yet been measured.
Because of this, and because
of benefits expected under the
Goldmining Industry Assist-
ance Act —the co.’s claim in
respect of last term was approxi-
mately £25,000, but the exact
amount has yet to be officially
determined —and the possibility
that the Koranga joint workings
(a sluicing venture) might soon
make a small contribution to
the pool, shareholders’ prospects
for the current term have
brightened.
When the books were ruled
off there were cash and debtors’
balances totalling £107,893 to
meet £36,616 coming to sundry
creditors. Stores figure at
£84,576, and shares and pre-
payments at £11,869.
The co.’s own shares have
been fairly steady around 2s. in
the market over the last 12
months. The return at 2s. is
12.5 p.c, on a 3d. div. basis.
Ravenshoe Tin Dredging
Arrangements have been made
for a temporary supply of
current about April next. This
will enable enough water to be
pumped from the Herbert River
(Q.) to float the pontoon and
proceed with erection of the
superstructure. A full supply of
power, which will enable the
dredge to commence digging, is
not expected to be available until
about the end of 1956.
During the year to June 30 last
£98,437 was spent on preparatory
development and construction
and charged to capital account,
making it £457,384. Share-
holders put up £99,937 (ss. a
share), raising paid capital to
£299,645 in 400,000 £1 shares
called to 15s. each. Purchase-
money owing on dredging sub-
leases, etc. (now £105,001) was
reduced by £48,425, and £42,018
was added to the Government-
guaranteed overdraft, making it
£126,208.
Delay in equipping the pro-
perty has been due entirely to
failure of the Queensland Gov-
ernment to make power from the
Tully Falls scheme available on
the date originally promised.
This has added considerably to
the capital cost of the venture,
and, in addition to the final ss.
a share on issued capital, called
since the close of accounts, fur-
ther funds will be needed.
Exactly how much, and how it
is proposed to raise the money,
is not mentioned.
Meanwhile the co. has missed
some high prices for its tin,
which remains on the ground.
The leases near Mt. Garnet (Q.)
are estimated to contain
31,000,000 c.y., averaging
t. 0., assaying 72 p.c. metallic
tin. The dredge-capacity is
about 3,000,000 c.y. p.a., and an
85 p.c. recovery is anticipated
With tin around present prices
ithe co. could win good profits.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
The Archbishop of Melbourne, Dr.
J. J. Booth, assisted by the Rev. Stanley
Ball, baptised at Christ Church, South
Yarra, last week the baby granddaughter
of the Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks, and daughter of Lieut.-
Commander Robin Byrne, R.N., and
Mrs. Byrne. The baby, named Jennifer
Victoria, wore a fine white linen frock
beautifully embroidered and finished
with lace-insertion, the work of three
girl-students at the Emily McPherson
College. Godparents were Lieut.-
Commander Byrne’s sister, Mrs. Michael
Roberts, of Bermuda (for whom Marion
McPherson was proxy), Mrs. John
Baillieu and Mr. Richard Allen.
Lady Brooks wore a suit of carbon-
blue shantung and a rose-pink star-
cloche finished with flowers across the
front. Mrs. Byrne’s H-line frock was
of green, black and white printed-silk,
her curvette of black velvet. There were
many distinguished guests at the
ceremony, and later a small afternoon-
tea party was held at Government House.
☆ ☆ ☆
Already people are referring to Christ-
mas, 1955, as the time ' of “the great
deluge,” for not since 1875 has there
been such a period of continual rain.
The weather drove campers back from
the seaside to their homes, film-houses
did a roaring trade, and anyone seen
aimlessly wandering abput the city
- streets looked miserable and unhappy.
Not until the holidays were over did the
weather become warm and pleasant.
* ☆ *
Themes for Christmas-cards seemed
more widely varied this year than ever.
Victoria’s State crest ik imprinted on the
front of the card sent out by the Premier
and Mrs. Bolte, while inside is a re-
production of the main stadium for the
Olympic Gamtes. The card of Minister
for Transport A. G. Warner and his wife
had the Spirit of Progress centred among
planes, ships, and other means of trans-
port. The City of Melbourne crest
decorated the front of the card sent out by
Lord Mayor Selleck and Mrs. Selleck,
while inside, in lovely color, was a pic-
ture of the stage-decorations seen at the
Lord Mayor’s Ball earlier in the year.
The High Commissioner for Canada
and Mrs. Irwip sent out a simple card ;
its only decoration, Canada’s coat-of-
arms. Canadian Trade Secretary Roy
Blake and Mrs. Blake used a colorful
maple-leaf to decorate their card. The
Chinese Consul’s card was long and
narrow with the cover showing a Chinese
scene and good-wishes in Chinese writing.
Lady Disney chose an Australian scene
of lovely gumtrees, and from the Vigano
family came a card with the picture of
a snowy Christmas morning, a reproduc-
tion of a painting by Madame Vigano.
☆ ☆ ☆
Thousands of people gathered in the
Alexandra Gardens for the City
Council’s ceremony to herald 1956. High
overhead at midnight appeared the
illuminated words: “Welcome 1956 —
Olympic Year”; underneath, in fire-
works, was the Olympic Torch. Prior
to the Tivoli artists giving their pro-
gramme of variety-acts there was a
“spiritual hour,” which lent the one
touch of seriousness as the old year was
passing. * '
At Chevron, where on New Year’s
Eve the dining-room was gay with
balloons, diners noted included Judge
and Mrs. Fraser, Mr. and Mrs. John
Carrodus, Mr. and Mrs. S. Aarons,
Mr. Frank Christie and his wife, and
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Bucklow.
Claridge’s and Giro’s were very gay.
At Ciro’s it was Colony Club Night,
and among the guests who greeted the
New Year were Mr. and Mrs. Royden
Honeyman, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Moore,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bourchier, Bob
Boberski and his sister Doreen, the
Frank Marlands, Mr. and Mrs. Angel,
and Mrs. Marian Smith.
☆ ☆
Although Anne, elder daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Fred Langford, lives with her
parents in Camberwell, she chose to be
married from Netley, the family seaside-
home at Sorrento. White and gold ever-
lastings gathered from the cliffs decorated
St. John’s Church, where the Archbishop
of Melbourne (the Very Rev. Dr. J. J.
Booth) officiated, assisted by the Rev.
Eric Kent.
The bride chose a short white Swiss-
embroidered cotton gown cut on clas-
sical lines, with a lace-mantilla mounted
on a long tulle veil and caught with a
diamond-pin. She carried a posy of
white everlastings, and was attended by
her sister, Mrs. John Boykett, and Mrs.
John Plaisted, Janys Packer, Rosemary
Norris and Helen Heath, who wore frocks
of white Swiss-cotton, each one em-
broidered with a different-colored motif.
In their hair were lace-triangles and they
carried lace-parasols trimmed with posies
of everlastings. The bride’s cousin, Judith
Picken, was flower-girl; she wore a
simple white embroidered frock and a
halo of everlastings.
The bridegroom, Albert, only son of
Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Twigg, of Manifold
Heights, Geelong, had Ewen Letts as
best man, and groomsmen were Askin
Morrison, John Johnson, Peter Harkness
and David Yoffa. After the ceremony,
which was fully choral, a reception was
held at Netley.
☆ ☆ ☆
Lady Hyde, who, with her daughter
Deirdre, will fly to Manus Island early
in the New Year to stay with Captain
and Mrs. M. J. Clark and their daughter
Judy, was one of the hostesses during
the seasonal revels. The party she gave
also marked the end of Deirdre’s science-
course at the University, where she also
got her double-blue for sport. Silvered
foliage, colored baubles and red, white,
yellow and green candles were effectively
used as decorations in the reception-
rooms. Lady Hyde received her guests
wearing a deep-sapphire-blue wool-
frock with a matching jacket. Deirdre’s
bouffant frock of delphinium-blue
organza had an off-the-shoulder bodice
and festoon-skirt. Among the guests
were Major-General and Mrs. A. C.
Shortt, Mr. John Bloomfield, M.L.A.,
and his wife and daughter, Air-Vice-
Marshal J. E. Hewitt, Mrs. Simon Fraser,
Mr. and Mrs. David Syme, Lady Snow,
Janet Campbell, Emily Maudsley, Don
Casey and David McGlashan.
Mrs. Robert Hunter lives at North-
wood Park, Seymour, where her husband,
who is a member of the V.A.T.C. com-
mittee, has a large stud. Mrs. Hunter,
who has two children, displays her taste
for fashion mostly at various race-
meetings.
Drawcard at Caulfield on Saturday
was the running of the International
Stakes (won by the Queen’s jockey,
W. H. Carr), in which jockeys from
America, Italy, France and South
Africa also competed, as well as well-
known Australian jockeys.
Wife of the chairman of the Mel-
bourne Racing Club, Mrs. Robert Gove,
wearing a princess-coat in hyaciiftto-
blue wool and a matching hat, enter-
tained a large party at luncheon. Among
her guests were Mrs. A. C. Shortt (wife
of the chief of the U.K. Liaison Staff),
the Marchesa Noretta Serafini (wife of
the Consul-General for Italy), Madame
Le Bas de Plumetot (wife of the French
Consul), Mrs. Givon Parsons and Mrs.
Joseph Wiedenmayer (wives of the U.S.
Consuls), Mrs. A. H. W. von Freytag
Drabbe (wife of the Netherlands Naval
Attache), Mrs. Norman Robinson, Mrs.
Robert Hunter and Mrs. John Cain.
SYDNEY
Well, 1955 went out with a tear and
1956 came in with a smile, if rain and
sunshine can be taken to represent these
things. Everyone seemed gay and happy
at the opening of the year—a good
augury, it is hoped, for the days to
come.
Sydney celebrated with many private
parties and gay gatherings in the open—
at Manly (where it is estimated that
50,000 danced and sang in the streets), at
Bondi, Coogee, Cronulla and King’s
Cross. There was a televised variety-
programme at the Cross, but there were
fewer numbers there than usual (just the
mere 27,000, it seems).
Nobody seems to mind that most of
this open-air revelry at New Year is
called a Mardi Gras. The term should
only be applied to the Tuesday before
Ash Wednesday, and represents a last
gay fling before the austerities of Lent.
Some people went on from party to
party, refreshing themselves with a dip
in the ocean at dawn. At Palm Beach,
where New Year is traditionally cele-
brated by the Pacific Club’s Annual
Dance, this was catered for and a break-
fast of grilled-steak and iced tomato-juice
was served at 6 a.m. Another large
party was given by Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
McWilliam (of Darling Point); some 100
guests welcomed the New New. Fancy-
dress, once a “must” for New Year, is
losing its popularity, persisting only in
fancy-hats or paper-skirts, but the beach-
togs which are the thing for New Year’s
parties now are so bright and gay they
practically become fancy-dress them-
selves.
☆ ☆ ☆
The J. D. K. Roches gave their
usual New Year’s-morning party at their
home, Cranford, Edgecliff. It was in
the nature of a farewell-party, as the
Roches leave on Oronsay on January 14
for Bermuda and Peru. They will be
away about eight months, returning via
Mexico and U.S.A. Tlieir daughter,
Mrs. Michael Jones, will stay at Cranford
during their absence while her new home
in Darling Point-road is being re-
decorated.
☆ ☆ ☆
Herewith a little plea for the correct
rendering of “Auld Lang Syne.” Nearly
everyone puts “for the sake of” and “for
the days of” into the fourth line, but this
should simply run “For auld lang syne.”
The correct words of the verse (which is
generally sung) are:' —
“And here’s a hand, my trusty here,
And gie’s a hand o’ thine,
And we’ll tak’ a right guid-willie waught
For auld lang syne.”
The meaning of “fiere” is “comrade” and
“waught” means “draught.” The second-
last line is something of the nature of
the “braw bricht moonlicht nicht,” for
if at midnight on New Year’s Eve you can
say “We’ll tak’ a right guid-willie waught,”
then you’re all right, d’ye ken?
☆ ☆ ☆
How we sound to the children! Tony,
aged six, was told to “run out and play,”
instead of remaining with the adults.
“But I want to stay and hear you talk,”
he said. “It’s like listening to the wire-
less.”
# #
It was pleasant to see that so many
Sydney women who are prominent in
social-welfare work received honors from
the Queen in the New Year’s list. Noted
among them were Mrs. Dorothy Mowll
(0.8. E.) and Mrs. Ruve Cropley, Mrs.
Kathleen Burrow, Mrs. Elsie Hill (Far
West Children’s Health Scheme), Mrs.
Thelma Metcalfe (president of the
National Council of Women) —all Mem-
bers of the British Empire.
V V V
Now that it’s time for resolutions, let
us hope that the party-makers resolve
to inject a little originality into the
merrymaking of 1956. Sydneysiders, and
probably other “siders” also, tend to
follow well-defined patterns in their
parties, always asking the same people
and doing the same things, with the
result that much that should be gay is
repetitive and monotonous. But attend-
ances at most of the big social functions
were lower in 1955 than in previous
years, an indication that a revolution in
party-organising is called for.
And a plea from a man with two flat
feet: “Please ask the givers of cocktail-
parties to provide plenty of chairs for the
sedentary types.”
'fr ☆ ☆
Family-parties filled two stands at the
White City for the opening of the “Water
Follies” on the second-last night of the
old year. It was a clear, fresh night,
with the rising moon a counter-
attraction to the aquabelles, the singers,
dancers, acrobats, champion divers and
swimmers. By the way, this Letter here
puts it on record that she has seen noth-
ing more comic than the diving clowns
at this show since Charlie Chaplin first
swam into her ken. The proceeds of the
opening-night were donated to the
Eastern Suburbs Sub-normal Children’s
Home, and the very fine attendance was
organised by the Woollahra Ladies’
Auxiliary, headed by Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere.
The accompanying charming study is
of Rosemerie Newell, elder daughter of
the Graham Newells, of Wollstonecraft,
whose engagement to Leycester Devenish-
Meares was announced only three days
after her return from a year’s travel of
Europe and the U.S. Rosemerie was
accompanied on her tour by her sister
Mardi, who became engaged to M.
Robert Guglielemina, of Nice (France),
and who will return to France to marry
him after Rosemerie’s wedding in May.
Leycester is the twin-son of Mr. and
Mrs. Osborne Devenish-Meares, of
Wollstonecraft.
Pam and Freddies Bamberger were in
the audience for the Christmas Eve open-
ing of “Teahouse of the August Moon”
at the Royal, and they were full of first-
night jitters by proxy for their daughter
Hilary, who plays the geisha-girl Lotus
Blossom in this really delightful little
satire on the world’s different modes of
living. It will be interesting to see how
Sydney reacts to this gentle, subtle,
soothing and amusing play. It has a
quality of ease which we haven’t seen for
a long time.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of Sydney’s prettiest girls,
Margaret Tarrant, of Greenwich, will be
married early in the New Year (Febru-
ary 11 is the date) to lan Sinclair, who is
a legal-eagle turned grazier. The
marriage will take place at St. David’s
Church, Lindfield, and after their honey-
moon the young couple will make their
home at Glenclair, Bendemeer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Two little stories from the Christmas
season may bring us with a smile into the
New Year. One concerns the three-year-
old who, getting overexcited on Christ-
mas Eve, was packed off to bed at 5.30
p.m. An hour later she woke up, found
it daylight, thought it was the next morn-
ing and wailed unconsolably because
Santa Claus hadn’t left any presents!
The second story is told by parents
who took their two littlies into the city
to see the four trees in the park which the
City Council illuminated so beautifully.
But the children, aged four and six, had
not been to town at night before, and
they thought the whole city was a Christ-
mas-tree. William-street struck them
duttifi with amazement, and, as they could
not read, the neon-lights flashing on and
off lost their crude advertising force and
took on a quality of magic. The harbor
was equally entrancing, but it brought
one disappointment, for the four-year-
old, having the lighted ferries pointed out
to her, thought there were fairies to be
seen and that she had missed them.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated In the
Country*
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
V Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the Sehool.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHEK, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
The Gateway to Disarmament—
A graphically presented booklet titled
"MUTUAL INSPECTION
FOR PEACE"
shows you how President Eisenhower’s plan can bring
all of us a step closer to a lasting and just peace.
Free to you, upon written request, to
U.S. INFORMATION SERVICE
46-48 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Divorce Notices
IN•THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce./
TO IRIS BLAIR EVANS late of Clifton
Avenue Faulconbridge New South Wales
and TO COLIN SHOOTER late of Railway
Parade Faulconbridge New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that KEITH ROBERT
EDGAR EVANS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4631 of 1955 on the ground
of adultery by the said IRIS BLAIR
EVANS with the said COLIN SHOOTER
If you or either of you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by Ist March 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. DUDLEY WEST-
GARTH & CO., Solicitors, of 369 George
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO EDWARD KELLY late of 9 Society
Street Toowoomba Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that GRACE JOHANNA KELLY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3219
of 1954 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards under Queensland law and is
asking the exercise of the Court’s dis-
cretion in her favour If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 13th day of March
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. E. R.
TRACEY & CO., Solicitors, of 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Music of 1955
With two opera-seasons and
a steady stream of celebrities,
most of them under the A.B.C.
banner, Sydney’s musical-year
was rich and varied. *
The Italian Opera Company,
brought out by the Firm, pre-
sented 14 operas, nearly all old
and trusted war-horses —the
box-office didn’t allow for
experiments. The standard of
settings and dressing was gener-
ally high and the company had
several outstanding voices,
notably dramatic-tenor Umberto
Borso, Australian lyric-tenor
Kenneth Neate, lyric - soprano
Gabriella Tucci, baritone Afro
Poli and basso Salvatore
Catania. With one or two ex-
ceptions the acting was woeful.
The short season of opera
courageously put on by National
Opera in the torrid weeks of
February achieved a steadily
improving standard, and in-
cluded a “Boheme” in which
local players acted better than;
and sang almost as well as, the
importers.
There was a Beethoven Festi-
val which included several sym-
phonies and concerti, all con-
ducted by the husky Viennese
Kurt WoeSs, who obviously
knows his Beethoven backwards
and invested his readings with
vitality and sound musicianship.
Concert-goers and -listeners
were well catered for by the
A.8.C., its line-up of celebrities
being the most impressive for
many years.
There was Mattiwilda Dobbs,
a beautiful young negress who
supported a regal platform-
manner with a pure and flexible
coloratura which she used over
the widest possible range of
song.
The Sicilian Luigi Infantino
gave added proof that no voice
can thrill an audience like a
tenor that combines power with
beauty of tone, but choice of
offerings was severely restricted
—operatic excerpts and Neapoli-
tan folk-songs sung with the
greatest gusto.
.There was Hans Hotter, the
German baritone, a giant of a
man and an incomparable ex-
ponent of the lieder of Schubert,
Schumann, Strauss and Hugo
Wolf—one of the world’s really
great singers.
Sylvia Fisher, returning to her
homeland after triumphs abroad
for some years, held the
dramatic-soprano fort with dis-
tinction, her heroic and
declamatory singing being par-
ticularly memorable.
Another Australian returned
from some years of successes
overseas was John Cameron,
rapidly Gorging his way into the
front rank of baritones. He
highlighted a too-short season
with an exceptionally fine per-
formance of a Beethoven song-
cycle.
Anna Russell brought packed
houses down with her up-
roarious satires on music and
musicians, and the Trapp
Family Singers were charming
entertainers in the field of folk-
lore.
There were four pianists from
abroad: the Bulgarian Ventsi-
slav Yankoff, looking nearer 19
than his 29 years, with a magni-
ficent technique and a mature
interpretative sense and no
mannerisms; the American
Julius Katchen, who played with
great competence but lacked
fire; Monique Haas, the
French girl, who stuck mostly
to the music of her compatriots,
with some consequent aridity
and austerity in her pro-
grammes ; and New Zealander
Colin Horsley, a vastly-
improved pianist who drew on
a wide repertoire and gained his
best effects where delicacy of
trill, scale-passage and filigree-
work was called for. Sydney-
born Gordon Watson, returning
from abroad on a private visit,
played a Liszt sonata notably
well and generally created a fine
impression in a late-season
recital.
fhe viol family was repre-
sented by Max Rostal, a fiddler
with a good tone, though not
in the first flight, and Ernst
Friedlander, a ’cellist who could
hold his own in most company.
Sir John Barbirolli, his usually
enormous vitality reduced by a
severe illness, still gave some
very good performances, and his
wife, Evelyn Rothwell, made
her oboe sing sweetly. The
other conductor was Josef Krips,
16st. of bounding energy, with
a personality and memory
phenomenal enough to allow him
to dispense with a score even
at rehearsal!
Musica Viva, making a strong
comeback after a year or so
in the doldrums, brought out
two very fine ensembles: the
Pascal and Koeckert Quartets.
Standards continued to be
high in the annual vocal and
concerto competition with which
the A.B.C. encourages young
singers and instrumentalists.
The big Mobil Quest competi-
tion was won by Marjorie Con-
ley, who, if her lovely soprano
and manner of using it continue
to improve, could go right to
the top.
One of the best works per-
formed during the year was
Verdi’s “Requiem,” with the
Sydney Orchestra and the Hurl-
stone Choir under Goossens —
whose Sydney Conservatorium
Opera School continued to tread
little-used paths by producing
Verdi’s “La Forza Del Destino”;
and doing it very smoothly, too.
* * *
“The Teahouse of the August
Moon”
“Each month, they say, the full
moon makes the earth wonderful,
but the greatest of all full moons
is the moon in August.”
And who, indeed, are we to
doubt it, particularly after seeing,
at Sydney Royal, this charming
little fable on how Uncle Sam’s
Army, which could obliterate a
city in an instant, finds it infin-
itely more difficult to bring Uncle
Sam’s democracy to the village
of Tobiki on Okinawa.
Under the command of a
bored Colonel Wainwright Purdy
111 (“that means he’s a sonofa-
sonofa-son ”), each of a
batch of young American officers
takes over a small village con-
sisting of a handful of poverty-
stricken peasants who are
generally enthusiastic about any
ideas that might bring them the
tangible wealth that represents,
to them, the American Way of
Life.
One major even succeeds in
teaching his whole village to sing
’“God Bless America” and to
recite the alphabet from A to M,
but young Captain Fisby hardly
knows what is happening to him
—in short order he has a No. 1
geisha-girl, a kimono and a
straw hat “that the wind blows
through” ; the village, unable to
sell its output of cups and
cricket-cages, leaps to prosperity
by selling the product of its local
stills to the liquor-dry occupa-
tion-forces ; the proposed school-
house for the village becomes a
tinsel teahouse, and the newly-
formed Ladies’ Guild eagerly
accepts the tutorial presidency
of the No. 1 geisha-girl.
The whole thing has a light
and charming humor that makes
much more of it than any bare
accounting might suggest, and
demonstrates the welcome and
increasing capacity of Uncle
Sam to take himself lightly.
Hugh Thomas, as Sakini,
Army-interpreter - extraordinary
between West and East, and
compere - announcer - philosopher
to the audience, steals the even-
ing so easily that it’s hard to
believe he was born in Pennsyl-
vania, U.S.A., and not in Tobiki,
Okinawa. Grant Taylor, as the
Colonel, John Bonney, as Cap-
tain Fisby, and Hal Thompson,
as Captain McLean, who is sent
from “psychiatric” to “examine”
Fisby but stays to enjoy the
simple life, are all in excellent
comedy-form.
Hilary Bamberger, if not a
very Japanese geisha-girl, is an
attractive one nonetheless, and
Mary Fukuda and Harry Chang
supply, individually, the authentic
Japanese and Chinese elements
required.
%
“The Firstborn”
There was a rhyme, or a
ditty, which went, roughly:
The Pharaoh had a daughter with a
most attractive smile,
Who found the infant Moses while
bathing in the Nile;
She took him home to dear papa
and he believed the tale —
Which was just about as probable as
Jonah and the whale.
And that is the vague impres-
sion left by the performance of
Christopher Fry’s “The First-
born,” by the Independent
Theatre Workshop at North
Sydney.
The players, and producer
Noelann Gandon, give the piece
a neat-enough production, with
occasional bursts of heat and
emotion, but the play needs
much more than that to help it
over-—with little action and
practically no character, the
exalted word - spinning and
spangles of metaphors need
actors with all the technique and
polish in the world to make
acceptable dramatic material of
them. True, the lines some-
time soar and glint in the upper
air while the stage waits beneath,
but far too often they fly away
from the point instead of to it.
Thus, for example, when the
Pharaoh’s firstborn falls dead,
Fry gives half his cast oppor-
tunities for a profusion of deli-
cate or resounding verbiage
which has less than a fraction
of the tragic effect of Horatio’s
three-line farewell, or of the
“Break, heart; I pr’ythee,
break!” with which Kent prac-
tically ends the agony of Lear.
Admittedly the examples are
supreme, but they point the way
for Fry, or anyone else, to
bring verse down hard to the
needs of the stage instead of
straining away from it in way-
ward, if graceful, flights of airy
words.
These, the real difficulties in
presenting Fry at any time, quite
o’ercrowed the admirable spirit
in which the Workshop Group
went for the play. Some of the
players notably Robert
McDarra, who gave Moses a
measure of black-bearded
dignity; Carmel O’Laughlan,
who gave Miriam a kind of
tortured vitality; and Reginald
Livermore, who made an eager,
worried adolescent of young
Rameses contrived to inject
some character into practically
characterless roles, but the
others had little but sound to
put into the almost empty
vessels Fry gives them.
&
“Jack and Jill”
For young and old, this year’s
panto at Sydney Tiv. strikes a
responsive chord at both levels.
Jack’s mission is no ordinary
hill-climb —he scales the “un-
climbable mountain” for a pail
of magic water, an unknowing
accomplice in crime to a crooked
Mr. Twist and a nasty old witch.
But everything rights itself, Jack
is duly given his princely title
and the numerous side-plots
provide a good many laughs,
while the Beryl Ellis Starlets use
nimble feet and bright faces in
the background.
With pleasant voice and easy
manner, Nina Cooke convinces
the small boys in the audience
that she is Principal Boy; and
funnymen Joe Church and Joe
Lawman keep the audience in a
continual wheeze*—Church as
Simple Simon and Lawman as
a boisterous Dame Horner.
Roslyn Dunbar is a vivacious Jill.
The speciality-acts provided
by the talented Judas Juvenile
Dancers are bright entertainment
and their Russian dances and
acrobatic-turns quite spectacular.
One member of their group
manages to tap-dance with his
partner and beat-out a polished
tune on the drums to the last
head-roll, all in the one act.
In all, a tiptop panto, in which
even Davy Crockett finds a
corner.
Talkies
“French Cancan” (Australia,
Melbourne): Directed by Jean
Renoir, a son of the artist, this
storm of feminine beauty, legs,
]j n g er j e j OV e and languor has a
story, and a very good one. It
tells the tale of how the cancan
became the rage of Paris and
bow the Moulin Rouge became
the Mecca of that thirsty pilgrim
t h e world-tourist.
j t ab arose in the brain of
s b o wman Danglar (done ex-
tremely well by Jean Gabin),
whose single objective is his
love of the theatre and who steers
his way through a sea of singers,
comediennes and dancers, all of
whom become his mistresses,
according to theatrical tradition,
without deflecting him from his
purpose for an instant, though
jealous lovers they have jilted
try to murder him and the heir
of a European kingdom shoots
himself out of disappointment.
At the opening of the Moulin
Rouge, Nini (beautifully acted by
Maria Felix) won’t dance
because Danglar is engrossed
with his latest star, a singer, and
all is chaos; but she whizzes on
when the music starts, and the
opening is terrific. The color is
good, the pace is frenzied and the
number of characters enormous,
but director Renoir handles his
material with all the ease and
assurance with which his father
handled pigments. Some of his
compositions are surprising in
their beauty.
“Strategic Air - Command”
(Sydney Prince Edward): This
Paramount film, made with the
co-operation of the U.S. Air
Force, has plenty of excitement
in its slight but firm story, and
is also an impressive account of
America’s big force of giant
intercontinental - bombers, with
their crews waiting 24 hours a
day for a retaliatory-alert in the
vital Arctic area.
The photography of massed
aircraft at great heights is most
arresting ; a refuelling operation
in mid-air is a striking demon-
stration of the smoothness of
the organisation; and there is
a crash-landing in the wastes of
Greenland depicted with con-
vincing realism.
James Stewart and June
Allyson play the main roles with
warm and affectionate under-
standing.
f ‘The Seven-Year Itch” (Syd-
ney Mayfair): A diverting
comedy about a nearly-middle-
aged grass-widower who suffers
a mixture of reactions when a
friendly, unconventional 22-
year-old blonde invades his flat.
It has the benefit of an excellent
performance from screen-
newcomer Tom Ewell, who did
the play for three years on
Broadway. He makes full use
of a wide range of facial expres-
sions and an excellent sense of
comedy-timing. As the feather-
brained blonde, Marilyn Monroe
gives her best performance yet,
and her curves certainly orna-
ment the flatscape.


The Village Hapden
By
E.O. Schlunke
TOM MATHESON and I
had been very good
friends at the Teachers’
College, and I’d heard
from him for the first few years
after we’d gone to our separate
appointments; mainly exuberant
accounts of his encounters with
headmasters and inspectors,
which I more-or-less expected.
He was the kind of man who
didn’t take kindly to the
restraints of authority. Then
for six months after he’d written
that he was going to a small
town called Belluga, which
neither of us had ever heard of,
I’d heard no more of him.
We had struggled through our
student-days, like so many
others, on a shoestring-budget,
so it was one of the biggest
surprises of my life to find that
the man who was parking the
low, sleek Jaguar beside my tiny
Morris at the beach at Bondi
was my old friend Tom. But
when he saw me he came rush-
ing over and gave my hand a
tremendous wrench.
“I’ve been too bedevilled to
write,” he said, “and I knew
that I couldn’t make you under-
stand what was happening to
me in a letter. I’m a grazier
now.”
We fairly soon got round to
the events which led to his
leaving the department. Off-
and-on during those holidays I
heard so much about the affair,
told in Tom’s vivid and excited
manner, that I have as complete
a picture of it all as if I’d been
there.
Tom is an eager and vital
sort of fellow, who had refused
to become bored, even with
teaching. Every new appoint-
ment was an adventure for him ;
to him each place had a differ-
ent atmosphere, which he was
quick to analyse, then praise or
condemn. I could readily
imagine him arriving at remote
Belluga; leaping off the train
before it had stopped, his keen
blue eyes alert for everything
significant, his sensitive face
betraying his first impressions,
his long fair hair flopping this
way and that with the speed of
his movements.
JJNE of the first things he was
told about Belluga was that
it was a “football-town.” That
didn’t mean much to him,
because most towns have a
preference for some sport or
other, and it is more likely to be
football than any other.
But after a few days he began
to realise that Belluga’s interest
in football was unique. It was
a small town of only a thousand
or so people, and normally one
wouldn’t have expected a town
of that size to field a first-grade
team which could put up a good
showing against towns five to
ten times its size, and even hold
the Group’s challenge-cup. It
was possible only because of
Belluga’s methods. Tom got a
hint of what these were when he
Was having a talk with a fellow
staff-member about his new
town.
“You’ll get on very well with
the locals,” the teacher said, “if
you’re a good football-player.”
“I don’t play football now,”
Tom told him. “Golf is my
game.”
“Oh, you won’t get any golf
here,” the other man informed
him. “They don’t approve of
it.”
Tom ignored the “they” ; he
knew the extent to which leg-
pulling is practised in the
country.
“In that case, I suppose I can
play tennis,” he said.
“You can, provided they don’t
want you for a working-bee on
the football-ground.”
He disregarded it again; but
a few days later he got a much
stronger indication of what foot-
ball meant to Belluga. He went
into a barber’s shop to buy
some cigarettes. There was a
group of young fellows in the
place, but no haircutting or
shaving going on; they were
talking football, which is
common enough in country
barber-shops.
“Any Australian?” he asked
the man behind the counter.
The man looked at him with
interest
“You’re the new teacher here,
aren’t you?” he asked.
“Yes,” said Tom, and told
him his name.
The man ducked down
obligingly below the counter-
level, but before he came up
with the cigarettes, a big, tall
fellow from the group accosted
Tom.
“Say, Tom,” he said, with
country familiarity, “this is a
good chance to join you up
with our football-club. I’m the
treasurer. There’s nothing like
doing it here and now.”
The fellow was so obviously
certain of instant, unquestioning
compliance, that Tom was
astonished and inclined to be
resentful. Still, he assured me,
he said politely, “But I’m not
going to play football.”
“Oh, you can’t mean that,”
the treasurer replied with
exaggerated concern. “We all
know that you played a good
game as scrum-half at the
teachers’ college. We need a
scrum-half.”
The man said it, so Tom
assured me, as though Tom’s
own feelings on the matter need
not be considered at all. But
Tom shook his head.
“I’ve had enough of being
knocked about and trampled in
the mud by a lot of cavemen.”
TOCULARLY, he said it, in
J blunt country style, thinking
that after all the man might be
trying to be pleasant after his
own manner, offering him the
compliment of a place in the
football-team. Yet the fellow
winced as if he and the whole
town had been deliberately in-
sulted ; and the rest of the group,
who had been eavesdropping as
though the discussion was
immensely important to all of
them, looked vastly perturbed,
and some even angry. Tom
thought it might be a good idea
to soften his refusal.
“You’d be sorry to have me
in your team. I’ve lost my pep
since I’ve left college. I’d lose
your matches for you.”
The man, Fred somebody, his
name was, seemed a bit
mollified.
“But you’ll become a financial
member of the club?”
“How much?” Tom asked,
stalling for time. He remem-
bered the teacher who suggested
that he’d be obliged to place
himself at the service of the
football-club, and he held back
for two reasons; the first that
he didn’t like being pushed
around, and the second that he
suspected that it was all part of
a joke which the teacher had
arranged at his expense.
“It’s graded according to how
much you can afford. For a
single man on the salary you’re
getting it’s six-pounds.”
“Oh, come on,” Tom said,
laughing, sure it was all a joke ;
“I could join the Millions Club
for that much.”
“It would be only a pound if
you’d strip,” said the treasurer.
Tom laughed again.
“So you want to fine me five-
pounds because I won’t play.”
“Not exactly that,” Fred told
him. “It’s just that we expect
everyone who lives in the town
and district to do his best for
the club. If you won’t play,
you pay.”
Tom didn’t like the obdurate
tone; it didn’t sound so much
like a joke any more.
“Well, I’m not going to play,
and I’m not going to pay
either,” he said; and turned to
the man behind the counter:
“Those cigarettes, please.”
The tobacconist shook his
head.
“No Australian,” he said.
Tom was sure the tobacconist
had been about to give him Aus-
tralian cigarettes before the
treasurer accosted him; more-
over, he noticed that all the
others had Australians. But he
knew that it wouldn’t be politic
to rush a tobacconist.
“All right, I’ll take English,”
he said.
“No English, either.”
Tom found that hard to
believe.
“Well, then, tobacco.”
“No tobacco, either.”
Tom looked at him severely,
then at the others who had
gathered round.
“Come on,” he said, “you’ve
had your little joke. I’ve got to
get back to school, and if I
don’t have my smoke I’ll be
knocking the blocks off those
little demons in my class.”
“It’s no joke,” said the
tobacconist.
“That’s right,” said the
treasurer, “it’s no joke.”
It didn’t need a man of Tom’s
susceptibility to recognise that
the group around him was
hostile, and that the tobacconist
was punishing him. He felt' he
had wandered into a tribal
community where ordinary
standards of behavior were not
recognised.
Tom got himself out of the
shop with as much dignity as
he could command.
■OTIS colleagues at the school
told the same story.
“We’ve all been through it.
There’s no escape for you; best
to change your mind and join
right away.”
I could imagine how Tom’s
blue eyes must have flamed. He
told them he wouldn’t let a
bunch of yokels dictate to him,
or take any six-pounds from, his
undersized salary.
They only grinned. “Wait
until the committee’s been to see
you,” they said.
On the way home from school
that night Tom could see that
the news of his defiance was
getting round. In the few days
he’d been there, nearly all the
townspeople had got to know
him by sight; they nodded to
him pleasantly when they passed
in the street. Now they still
nodded, but only those who
hadn’t heard of his crime were
smiling; the others were
reserved and watchful, preserv-
ing what diplomats would con-
ceivably call an aggressive
neutrality ; they wouldn’t accept
an invitation to drink with him,
for instance, but they took the
trouble to present an inoffensive
excuse.
The next few nights he spent
in his hotel. He’d got a room
at this place by the use of the
teachers’ secret-weapon against
hotelkeepers, his knowledge that,
if accommodation is refused, the
refusal can be used to the detri-
ment of the publican when he
applies for renewal or transfer
of his licence. And this place
was a desert; a great, empty,
echoing building; even the bar-
room was never crowded except
on special occasions.
Tom’s room was up a flight of
battered, bannisterless stairs,
which looked as if they’d had a
Three Musketeers battle up and
down them a century before,
and at the end of a dark, cob-
webbed corridor. A double-
door with no fastenings led on
to a balcony which had a hole
in the floor large enough for a
man to fall through.
The hotelkeeper was not a
sinister type, though he had the
right setting—he was fat and
lazy; he didn’t want to be
bothered in his old age. He and
Tom were getting on well. In
the mornings Tom got his own
breakfast, then took tea and
toast to the hotelkeeper’s bed-
room for him and his wife. At
night they got him his dinner.
When trade was brisk Tom
helped ip the bar, where he was
never allowed to pay for any-
thing. Tom considered it a
satisfactory arrangement.
Perturbed about the attitude
of the townspeople, he confided
in his landlord. Old Bill took
a serious view of the situation.
“You’ve been rash,” he said,
shaking his snow-capped old
head at Tom. “The committee
will be after you.”
“While I’m in my room I’ll be
safe,” said Tom, making an
attempt at . cheerfulness.
“There’s that staircase. There’s
that booby-trap on my balcony.”
“You don’t know the commit-
tee.” Old Bill’s tone was awed,
which surprised Tom. Old Bill
was a man not easily impressed ;
used to pub-brawls, rowdy
pushes and whatnot, as most
hotelkeepers are. Tom tried
again to belittle the affair.
“I’ve heard about that com-
mittee, but I’ve never seen it;
perhaps it’s like the Guyra ghost
A GOOD THING
But this fruit-dish (I suppose it is for fruit;
The reason for its being never was)
Was made by human hands. You see the dent.
The maker trembled and the shape was lost,
Or found; you can determine which: I can’t
Insist but this bowl seems to me
Most perfect imperfection. It seems good.
Besides it has a story, has some point—
As human things must have if they are true.
The girl that made it was a girl I loved.
And she loved me, while she was making this.
You see her fingers trembled, made a dent *
That gathered all the glaze and ruined it
For those that want the smoothness of machines.
I wanted love, and found the whole thing good.
And later, when the girl and I were mad,
Our sensible arrangement fallen true,
Shouting at one another in a little room
As though we stood a block or two apart,
Calling each other stranger, stronger, and destroyer—
As though the words might somehow say our thought—
Nothing the world held in that crowded room,
Not bed nor desk, not talk, not thought, not self
Had any truth or being; nothing real:
The whole thing stagey, someone’s clever book.
Only this bowl that she made with her hands
Seemed real enough to make our hatred false.
So real she lifted it to smash but said,
My God, it’s good! And we both laughed. And so
The dish survived. And later, as two sane
Intelligences should, we parted; no bitterness, no smash.
She left the bowl with me. And that is that.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Registered FIRST MORTGAGE Debenture Stock
LONG
TERM
INTEREST
616 %
6%
s’/2%
CURRENCY -
10 & 15 years
4 to 9 years
3 years
5%
5%
4!4%
4%
3%%
3V4%
24 months
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly free of
exchange
ASSETS EXCEED £36,000,000
Prospectus may be obtained from
ATT. MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the
E., S. & A. BANK LTD.
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
and
Industrial Acceptance Corporation ltd.
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE
ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
Brokers to the Issue
lAN POTTER & CO., MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY
lAC.G
that had all the locals scared.
The investigators never saw it.”
“You’ll see it, my boy,” said
Bill.
TN due course Tom saw the
A committee.
They came to his room late
at night, after he had gone to
bed. He heard them crashing
up the dilapidated stairway and
tramping along the echoing
corridor. He had no doubt
from the first sound that it was
the committee; and the knock
they gave on the door was the
type of M.V.D. knock he was
entitled to expect.
Tom rather enjoyed a spirited
argument, and he’d never let
anybody browbeat him. Yet
when he heard the heavy
trampling and that knock, his
heart speeded up and started to
hammer.
He did not hurry to open the
door. For one thing, they were
knocking on the wrong one.
Without consulting Old Bill he
had moved into a large family
bedroom where he could enjoy
the expansive luxury of sleeping
in a double-bed ; he had moved
out the two smaller beds and
dragged in a writing-desk and
some armchairs he’d found in an
upstairs commercial room;
quite an apartment he’d made
for himself. He pulled on
trousers, slippers, and a
flowered - silk dressing - gown
warranted to stun the un-
sophisticated locals, opened the
door very quietly and called to
where his visitors were bashing
at room thirty-seven.
“Are you gentlemen looking
for someone, or have you merely
come to wreck the building?”
As far as he could tell in the
gloom, they were completely
disconcerted. They came
tramping along to his door.
“But Old Bill told us room
thirty-seven, didn’t he, Joe?”
“Yes, room thirty-seven.”
“It was room thirty-seven, all
right.”
They were aggrieved, as
though Tom had .been allowed
to score a try when he was off-
side. When they came into the
range of his bedroom-light he
had a good look at them, and
his uneasiness decreased. They
looked like parents, and if there
was anything he knew how to
deal with, it was parents. One
was enormous, but he’d paid for
his extravagant physical develop-
ment by an acute curtailment of
his mental powers. Tom could
tell by the length of time it took
him to absorb the fact that
despite his authoritative in-
formation, Tom was actually
living in room forty-five.
The next fellow, the one
who’d been addressed as “Joe,”
was also robust, but a smaller
man with a relatively pleasant
and amiable face. He looked
the brightest of the three. The
leader of the gang was a sturdy
man with a set, determined look
on his face, his forehead creased
by lines of worry. He intro-
duced himself as Les Ward, the
president of the football-club,
Joe’s surname was Ritter, and
the big bull was aptly known as
Bull Townshend.
Tom invited them in, treating
them with elaborate politeness.
He felt this might make them
uneasy over barging-in so late
at night. But it was wasted ;
they were obviously used to
visiting people when and how
they pleased. He stoked the
fire, put them into easy-chairs
round it, gave each a glass of
rum from the bottle Old Bill had
given him, and stood with his
back to the fireplace, looking
down on them as if they were
ill-behaved pupils come to report
for punishment. He said noth-
ing ; forcing them to speak first.
They looked at each other,
not noticeably abashed ; at least
Ward and Ritter looked at each
other; Bull seemed to be
excluded from the brainwork.
Tom wondered why they had
brought Bull along; he just sat
there, scoffing up the rum. Tom,
who knew his footballers, told
me how well he could imagine
him as a football-player of
about twenty years before ; one
of those tank-like forwards who
get down and push irresistibly;
who, when they get hold of the
ball, are inspired to frenzy;
head used to batter any man
who tries to ,stop them; who
ram their way forward heedless
of all odds; who ram their
heads into the earth when
tackled, and are even . capable
of breaking-off goalposts with
them. The others, he was sure,
were ex-footballers, too ; they
had pushing confidence and
aggressiveness, a suggestion of
physical violence even in the
way they moved chairs into
place.
WARD started the talking.
’ ’ “We’ve come about the
football-club,” he said, in hearty
man-to-man fashion.
“Football-club?” Tom said.
“You have a football-club here,
have you?”
“I believe our treasurer has
spoken to you about joining it.
He asked you to play, too,”
Ward said, firmly correct.
“Oh,” Tom said indifferently.
“That’s quite possible. I’m so
used to coming to new towns
and being badgered by people
to join this and that, that I never
remember a thing about it.”
- That, he thought, was putting
them nicely in their places. But
he got a surprise ; and from Bull
Townshend, too.
“He remembers all right!”
Townshend’s eyes fled as Tom
looked around at him, but Tom
could see the remnants of a grin
on the part of his face he
couldn’t hide.
“All right,” Tom said,
changing his attitude, “we’ll say
I was approached. Well, I
refused. What about it?”
Joe Ritter held up a hand
imploring peace.
“We don’t want any bad feel-
ings,” he said, in a surprisingly-
gentle voice; “It’s just that our
club means a great deal to us,
and perhaps you don’t exactly
understand. Now, if you’ll let
us explain it all to you”——
Les Ward cut-in. “Belluga
has always been behind us one-
hundred per cent., men, women
and children. We don’t want
any scabs. One in, all in.”
It was their earnestness and
their conviction of their own
goodness and rightness, Tom
told me, that he found most
baffling. There seemed to be no
way in which a normal and
reasonable person could counter
it.
“Oh, come,” he said, banter-
ingly, “you can’t mean that.
Not everybody. Not the babes-
in-arms.”
“Yes, yes,” Ritter broke in,
bouncing up and down in his
chair with eagerness. “That’s
the beautiful thing about it; as
soon as a new baby is born,
before it is even registered with
the C.P.S., its parents make it
a junior member of the football-
club. Then, as soon as they are
a few years old, we teach them
to save their pennies to pay their
own subscriptions.”
“For God’s sake!” Tom
exclaimed, shocked. “Robbing
the little babies of their ice-
creams! ”
“No, no,” Ritter objected in
plaintive distress ; “you mustn’t
say that. That’s not the way
they think of it at all. It’s all
in the wonderful training they
get. They understand what a
privilege it is to be members of
the club ; they get that way they
can hardly wait until they’re
allowed to become senior mem-
bers and pay a full sub-
scription.”
“Damn it all, that’s awful,”
Tom objected; “that’s the
method Hitler used, and Musso-
lini, and all the old primitive
priests and witchdoctors.”
Ward cleared his throat
noisily. “Look here,” he said,
getting on to the man-to-man,
be-reasonable track * again!
“we’re only a small town; we’d
never win a match if we didn’t
have our system and carry it
out to the letter, see? Every-
body in Belluga plays football,
thinks football, works football,
You ought to see us; in action,
On weekends and holidays we’re
rolling the football - ground,
planting grass on it, repairing
the seats and fences, painting
the buildings. The women knit
the players’ guernseys, they
mend their torn shorts and socks,
they staff the refreshment-stall
to make money for the club,
they run card-parties and
dances. And us experienced old
Payers, we give all our spare
time to organising the games
and training the youngsters,
That’s a bigger job than you
think, too. All the kids are in
\ L As soon a * a Belluga boy
earns wal £ hls f°otball-
training begins.
Tom had noticed the enthusi-
astic training by the children, at
school and after hours, and had
put h down to one of those
fevers which periodically grip
children and just as quickly pass,
Hed noticed, too, the adults
showing them how.
It was at this stage, Tom
assured me, that he really
understood what was going on
in Belluga. The ingenuousness
of it nearly disarmed him.
Anyone but Tom would prob-
ably have shrugged his
shoulders and said, “If that’s the
way they feel about it, why
should I worry? They can’t
mean any harm.” As it was, he
tried to keep calm and make
them see it as it appeared to a
sane and objective outsider.
“It’s the pressure you use to
regiment everybody that I
object to,” he told them. “No
matter what objective you have
in mind, it’s undemocratic; it’s
evil and horrible.”
Ritter bounced up and down
in his seat again. “We’ve got
to keep faith with our players,”
he explained. “We can’t expect
them to put everything they’ve
got into a game if they know
that anyone in the town is
slacking. What right would we
have to call a player up before
the committee for not playing
his best all the time, if we knew
that there was someone in the
town not doing his bit?”
“It all sounds quite crazy to
me,” Tom told them. “The
whole conception js so medieval,
so primitive, that I have to
resist you on principle. The
more you talk about your club,
the more I’m convinced that I
can’t possibly have anything to
do with it.”
“In that case,” Ward said,
drawing himself up like a tribal
judge, “you’ll be called upon to
appear before a full meeting of
the club, which means the whole
adult-population of the town and
district; and if you still refuse,
you’ll be expelled from the
club.”
“Don’t be silly,” Tom replied
quite naturally. “How can you
expel me when I’ve never been
a member?”
At this stage Bull Townshend,
who had now emptied the rum-
bottle, stirred himself to another
effort.
“He talks too much,” he said,
in a bellicose tone. “I’m getting
tired of him. I’d like to give
him a good punch on the nose.”
“No, no,” Ritter objected.
“We must win him over to our
side. Let me make another
appeal. I ask you to think of
the children, and of all the
serious repercussions there will
be if you refuse to join us. The
children like you, and they
respect you as a man of educa-
tion and intelligence; so think
of how they will be upset if
any action of yours leads them
to question the wisdom and the
rightness of their parents and
the leaders of the town.”
Tom was fond of children 1
even if he did sometimes refer
to them as “little demons”; and
nothing outraged him so much
as adults taking advantage of
them.
“I’rii not going to leave this
place,” he said, “until I’ve con-
vinced them that you are a gang
of stupid tyrants.”
They jumped out of their
seats.
“We’ll certainly expel you if
you try that,” Ward said.
“Better let me punch him on
the nose here and now,”
bellowed Bull Townshend.
“Look here.” Ward advanced
on him, not threatening actually
to hit him, but giving him the
feeling that if he did it would
nearly kill him. “We’ll give
you five days to make up your
mind.”
“I don’t want five days. I’ve
told you already.”
“Better take the five days. By
that time you’ll realise what it
means to be expelled. And re-
member this, none of the few
people whom we’ve been obliged
to expel were able to go on
living in this town.”
They left after that; strong,
ominous and righteous.
TN the next few days Tom felt
the weight of their dis-
pleasure.
It was not exactly like the
unionist’s treatment of a “scab.”
It was less vindictive, but more
repellent. During the war he
had taught in a town where
Italian prisoners - of - war were
farming. A woman living on
the outskirts of the town, whose
husband was away in the Army,
had taken one of the Italians as
a lover. When that poor
woman had appeared in the
street, said Tom, there was the
same horrified withdrawing
from her vicinity as the Belluga
citizens now practised on him.
He declared that it had a
horribly demoralising effect on
(Continued on page 24)
BOY AND HIGH-ROCK
Twenty miles away from home
there is a lion. Every spring
I climb his flank; to shoulder and flank
the live trees cling.
The dead trees grip his lichened flesh
and foothold granite of his bone.
I am not patient like a tree, unresting
till I stand alone.
I make a song that has no words,
for I am taller than word or deed
when, with my country quiet as a map,
I lean from the lion’s head.
Songs are useless that have no sense
beyond the sound of rising wind;
so I come down in search of what, high up,
I wish to find.
But who in the shelter of flank and paw
can learn the lightning’s flash of pride?
Down here the gentle bluebell stands
by helichrysum’s side.
Every spring I come to this:
from valley and flower I shall bring to rhyme
the strength of the lion and myself—
when it is time.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


A Victim Gratefully Recalls
The Overcrowded Schoolroom
By OLAF RUHEN
I WAS idly leafing through
the dispatches of one of our
far-flung correspondents the
other day when I came upon
a sentence which read: “This is
liable to mushroom into one
of those stepping-stones which
some Senator may use for a
clarion-call,” and I was trans-
ported, as I often am by imagin-
ative writing, into a kind of
seventh Heaven of delight, ,in
which I walked around repeat-
ing the excerpt over and over.
It never saw the light of pub-
lication. A niggardly sub-editor
refrained from using it. Jealous,
without a doubt. And I found
to my dismay that I had no
recollection whatever of the
nature of this thing that was
going to mushroom so unex-
pectedly into a stepping-stone.
I seldom manage to get any
sense whatever out of the far-
flung missives of this particular
correspondent, and possibly it
was just a chimera that was go-
ing to mushroom into clarion-
calling masonry; but still I
turned it over and over in my
mind, without coming to much
of a conclusion. Except that an
Australian Senator would hardly
have the initiative to sefee, like
Chanticleer, upon a mushroom-
ing stepping-stone for his clarion-
call. So I figured the locale
must be Washington, where
many a mushrooming clarion-
call has dropped with a dull
thud like a tombstone in the
creek.
Later on, however, it occurred
to me that the phrase could be
used, with a revealing clarity,
to illustrate the pother kicked-
up by the current outcry of
teachers regarding overcrowd-
ing in schools.
There has been quite a lot of
it. I myself have been subject
to a mushrooming sense of
horror at the picture evoked of
teachers tottering on the brink
of breakdown; of little children
subjected to the depressing
rigors of too close a confine-
ment in each other’s company ,
of future citizens sitting in ser-
ried rows as though qualifying
for membership in some future
propagandist’s captive audience.
For I, too, am a victim of the
overcrowded schoolroom.
So, I suppose, was everyone
who went to school with me. The
period didn’t last too long. I
got away from school the
moment the Law and my
father allowed. But I look back
and realise the stamp of it will
stay with me the rest of my
days.
They pulled down the old
schoolroom after I had been
going there six months, and
they built another one ; but I still
remember the first very vividly.
It was a dark room, with dark
oleographs on the wall, dark
maps and a dusty blackboard.
The long desks were banked up
in tiers towards the back of the
room, and the long benches on
which we sat were so over-
crowded that, on my first day,
when, at the teacher’s instruc-
tion, I sat down at one end, an
even smaller boy fell off the
other.
It was a back row, elevated
rather steeply—you began at
the top of the class—and he fell
down a couple of steps as well,
and bawled, so that I got the
reputation of being a trouble-
maker and won the immediate
envy of my fellows.
They were simple days, and
the solution for overcrowding
was simply to sit closer. To-
wards the end of that year, what
with all the new houses going up
along Forbury-road, we pre-
sented the appearance of a sec-
tion of the stand at a Test-match.
But the new school was fin-
ished during the Christmas holi-
days. The old gymnasium was
still good, and it was dragged to
the new site by teams of labor-
ing horses, egged-on by their
drivers and a host of small boys,
most of whom had the idea of
starting a stampede amongst
the Clydesdales so that they
would have the rare opportun-
ity of seeing a complete disinte-
gration of a schoolroom.
It was a much better site—-it
adjoined the local trotting-track,
which, indeed, served for a .little
while as a football practice-
ground, and might have con-
tinued to do so except that the
activities of small boys inter-
fered with the greyhound-cours-
ing area. The hares certainly
got over-exercised; and after
a day’s football the brush-
fences would lose some of their
efficiency.
But we would go to school
early so we could sit on the fence
and watch the horses training.
Some of us —not I —did all right
out of this. Two of my school-
mates became bookmakers, and
one flourished so well he was
“Remember the good old days last week when the
big all-day-suckers were a brown?”
able to give the game away when
they made it legal, and so
robbed it of the cream. (I should
explain this was a New Zea-
land school.)
In fact, we were so happy
that it is only during the last few
years that I have realised how
underprivileged we were. It is
impossible, I ain told, for a
teacher to cope adequately with
a class of much more than 30.
I was one of a class of 60—a
sardine in the can of learning.
Moreover, this class was the
smallest in the school, which,
in its new form, was a magni-
ficent, unexpandable brick edi-
fice set in the middle of a group
of growing suburbs.
At its opening the Minister
for Education spoke to crowded
rows of parents who sat grotes-
quely at the new desks, actually
built child-size, with sloping
tops that could be adjusted to
a level, thus approximating
post-school writing conditions.
One wall of each room was
given over to huge rows of win-
dows, and a small coke-fire was
installed convenient to the dais
of every teacher. Desks in each
room were in pairs, except for
a row of singles to which the
anti-social and the recalcitrant
would in time be drafted.
For a time we had room to
move. But the growing sub-
urbs had their way. The school,
which consisted of six classes
and an infant-room, grew to
around . 600 pupils ; and most
of the classes, which we called
“standards,” consisted of about
40 small boys and 40 small girls,
segregated as carefully as might
be in those crowded spaces. The
rooms were just not adequate,
and three often had to sit in
desks built for two. I was for-
tunate, I suppose, in being in a
standard as small as ours was.
Yet I didn’t consider myself
fortunate. I was a confirmed
back-seater, and I considered
the opportunity for cover in a
classroom such as ours rather
limited. At that stage I would
much rather have dropped back
to the class behind us, where a
solid phalanx of alphabetically
inferior pupils would be ranged
between the R’s (the Robertses,
the Richardses and the Ruhens)
and the teacher’s eye.
With three at a desk, it’s
easier to keep an eye on what
the other fellow is writing in the
weekly—not yearly—examina-
tions without developing a squint
which could well become per-
manent. I still have the legacy
of this developed ability. In a
Sydney tram I can read the other
fellow’s newspaper without in-
curring the slightest animosity,
and this in contradistinction to
my wife, who induces her vic-
tims to shake the paper angrily,
turn over pages in exasperation,
and sometimes favor her with
long steady looks from beneath
frowning brows.
But it was important to know
how you were going, in exami-
nations. It was necessary for
comfort to have a good pass
without coming anywhere near
the top. The fellow who came
top was required to sit for a
week beside Mary Shad, and
coach her on anything she did
not understand. It made for a
solid week. Mary understood
nothing. Also Mary smelled,
just a little bit. Her hair was
always tangled; her teeth were
always gapped.
Coming second was not so
bad. You struck Ena McKee;
and as we passed into our teens
we began to see that Ena’s men-
tal shortcomings were balanced,
or at least compensated for in
some slight degree, by her physi-
cal attributes. In more tender
years her coaching remained a
chore, so one regulated one’s
examination-answers accord-
ingly.
Many an anguished week I
spent sharing a single-row desk
with Mary Shad. To this day
I can balance myself with all
the accommodation of long
practice on much less than my
allotted half of a bus-seat, and
never even squirm.
Some disadvantages of the
crowded conditions were imme-
diately apparent, even in those
less-discriminating years. For
one thing, the teacher, in order
to remain sane, was obliged to
enforce a fairly strict discipline.
The immediate harm in that was
countered by simple recipes, such
as learning to sleep on the side,
or rubbing the affected part with
rosin (a form of faith-healing,
I am convinced).
Sometimes the damage was
averted altogether by the ability
to tell a good story, and this
sharpened a good many wits.
One of our dumbest fellow-
pupils became a hat-salesman
immediately after leaving school,
graduated to motor-cars, and
by now is probably an important
executive and a landed pro-
prietor as well—all through the
early acquisition of this ability
to tell a good story.
But the damage came later,
when a selection of us joined
the Services, forearmed with
such an ability to circumvent
the Sergeant that, had there
been more of us, it might have
affected the war-effort the
parade-ground effort, anyway.
On the whole I am inclined to
agree that classes should never
grow to such an extent that dis-
cipline becomes necessary.
It was inevitable that we
should pick-up some learning.
Most of us got away from
school with a smattering of Eng-
lish, mathematics, history, geo-
graphy and so On. We had some
idea of why weather-conditions
developed, and therefore why
certain areas of the world would
produce certain products. We
could certainly spell, and our
general knowledge exceeded that
of today’s junior graduates.
At age-twelve we came away
with a store of seven-years’
learning which would, I suppose,
have taken an intelligent adoles-
cent brain about three or four
months of reasonable effort to
acquire. And I think that
present-day teachers are, in a
sense, wise not to insist that their
pupils learn all this by rote and
carry-it around with them. The
hours that I spent listening to
Mary Shad’s attempts to mem-
orise the seven-times tables could
much more profitably have been
devoted to selling newspapers, a
pursuit in which I might con-
ceivably have gained a know-
ledge of human nature.
I had the Mary Shad variety
of experience multiplied many
times during the year my sister
taught my class. I did quite well
that year because, for one thing,
I took a hand at times in mark-
ing the home-work. But I tend
to believe that it was in those
weeks I spent co-operating with
slightly dumber pupils that my
anti-social tendencies were born.
Much has been written about
the danger of epidemics in over-
crowded schoolrooms, but it
didn’t come into my experience.
Our big epidemic came in the
Christmas holidays, and so
didn’t count. Anyway, we were
kept off the beach, which was
never what you would call
crowded. In other years we were
disgustingly healthy, and the
annual line-up for “Attendance
Certificates” on Prize Day used
to look like a school roll-call.
But sex, of course, reared its
lovely head in the conditions of
propinquity into which we were
thrust. For six wonderful
months I sat behind a glorious
girl, who had long red tresses
down to her waist, green eyes
and freckles. She was generally
regarded with admiration, not
for her appearance, but for an
amateur boxing ability of no
small merit.
In my favored position behind
her I was able to write her notes
all day long, and stuff them
into the ribbons which bound
her plaits. From here she could
recover them, and replace them
with answers, without giving
the game away to the teacher.
A toss of that lovely head would
land the missive, still contained
in its hiding-place, right back
on my desk. On the rare
occasions when I was caught fid-
dling with her ribbons I was
able to meekly confess that I
was pulling her hair.
In the schoolroom the romance
progressed apace, but when, all
eagerliess and no experience, we
made an agreement to pursue it
in other fields, and actually met
for that purpose, we both blushed
and stammered, and talked of
other subjects, and finally made
our separate ways home.
For her I wrote my first poems.
I painted a portrait, too, but that
was less successful.
Other experiments that began
in that classroom were carried
to much more conclusive stages.
The advent of one small girl
turned a surprising number of
lads to the pursuit of sex, and a
revelation of some of the subse-
quent after-school orgies would
have far eclipsed the accounts
which newspapers have pre-
sented with such a wealth of
detail and such a surfeit of
moralising—recently. Strange
to say, some of the participants
in the orgies I mention were in
later years to profess themselves
thoroughly shocked by the
newspaper revelations.
But the gay and adventurous
little girl who began it all made
an excellent marriage, and in
her small orbit became a society
leader —and entitled to the posi-
tion, because she had developed
into a matron of taste, discrimi-
nation and intelligence. I have
often thought how lucky she was
not to have been discovered and
“rescued.”
A perhaps rather peculiar
aspect of that overcrowded sub-
urban school was its exception-
ally high scholastic record. In
the last year I was there our
Dux was fourth in the nation-
wide scholarship examinations.
We did well at sports, too. We
had held the Athletic shield for
13 years in a competition of 20
or more schools.
Memory, of course, is liable to
be tricky, and there were pos-
sibly dozens of factors in our
schooling which worked against
good citizenship. It didn’t seem
like that. School was a place
where we> sat and chanted our
mnemonic poems and our multi-
plication-tables ; and built maps
out of flour and water, and
stuck little pieces of coal and
wheat and wood on them, and
had our imaginations titillated
by reports of the great world
soon to open out to us; and that
there were 60 of us instead of 30
we found no great hardship. We
found the reverse, probably.
And as I remember it, our
teachers were men and* women
of a particularly equable temp-
erament. They had to be. Only,
it probably would have been
easier for them had there been
fewer of us. There would have
been fewer papers to mark.
Perhaps it is some such con-
sideration as this last that has
been mushroomed into a step-
ping-stone for a clarion-call, as
our far-flung correspondent,
himself the product of a later
educational system, remarked
/If so, I insist that it is merely
the foundation for a rumor too
indigestible to build upon.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Sewes you right
By
RAY
ALEXANDER
WELL, I’d done a bit with
the trotters. Old man’d
played round with the
trotters in the bush
when I was a kid. Grew up with
them, you might say. Driven
them in work, but not in a race.
Too young to drive in a race
when the old man was alive.
Good sport, the old man.
Drank a bit too much for doing
any good with the trotters ; but a
good old toiler, and earned his
drink, I’d say. And we—that’s
me, Mum and the three sisters—
we felt the pinch when he turned
it in ; that is, when he died.
They used to say he was a
drunkard and all that, but I tell
you we felt it when he wasn’t
round no more ; and it’s no fun
builder’s-laboring when you’re
thirteen, I can tell you. Just
hard work, splinters and aches
at first; but you get used to it,
and they’re good fellows to
work with when you get to know
them especially when they
know you’re working to keep the
family.
Well, the older sister —she was
about 17 when the old man died
—she was going to work. But she
got married pretty soon after—
not that she was giving Mum
much, I reckon. But that’s a
different story, and we got
through ; but what I was going
to tell you about was when I go
down to see the sister and have
a look at the trots.
You see, when Mum died I
thought I’d have a burl at the
trotters in the city. I knew a
fair bit about thSm because the
old man, I reckon, was one of the
best hands you’d see with a
trotter; any kind of horse, far
as that goes. “Always work from
the near-side!” he’d shout; and
“Look at the way y’ got ’im
tied!” or “That girth’s too
bloody tight!”
Rough-’n’-ready he was, but
always got the fads about his
gear an’ which side the horse
you work from an’ things like
that. And just that he didn’t
have the money or anyone to buy
him a horse, I reckon, or he’d
have maybe given up the grog
an’ won a lot of races.
Anyway, I give up builder’s-
laboring for a while and go to
the city, though Fred Sykes,
that’s the carpenter, didn’t want
me to leave. Sorry I did now,
but then, it was a change, and
easier, I thought. I got a start
with Meredith. He was training
for a few clients with a bit of
cash, and he had a few horses
of his own. Well, I worked with
him for a few years, working
them and strapping, then I went
back home. Well, our home
wasn’t there, not for us, that is,
but I mean to the home town.
And I boarded with the Sykeses ;
Fred went out of his way to give
me a room because he reckoned
I was the best worker he ever
had.
This time there was a boom
in the building—you know the
way it is in the building—and he
called himself a builder; and he
looked after me. And, funny
thing, I put most of it in the
bank. Maybe because I had a
sort of plan in the back of the
skull then. I don’t know, but it
seemed the only thing to do.
I had a drink with the boys and
a game of pool, but mostly it
went in the bank, and I tell you
it was a fair bit.
Harry—he was a mate of mine
there—he talked me into having
a run with the local League team,
and I got interested. After that
it was cricket, and I thought
that maybe kept me from having
nothing to do but stand round
and drink beer.
Trots up there were all right,
but playing this sport didn’t give
me much of a chance to go and
watch. And I don’t bet if I don’t
watch. Do your money cold
that way, I always say; and so
the money stays in the bank.
But then the football season
was over —for us, we missed on
the semis ; and I go along to the
trots. I go in the car with Fred
and his wife, and it’s a good day.
Fred being a builder and know-
ing a fair few people, and some
the right ones, gets a few good
tips and we win a few quid.
That meeting sort of gets me
going. I’d forgotten about the
trots with Meredith not giving
me a chance. So I go to the city
thinking of being a big-gun
driver pretty soon or something
like that. But seeing the trotters
again after a break gets me sort
of keyed-up and I start to think-
ing how work’s getting a bit
slack in the building-line again,
and about how I could maybe do
a bit of killing two birds with the
one stone.
TTHE first little bird happens to
be my young sister Sue, an’
a nice young kid, too. She’s not
long married to this young city
fellow, an accountant, and I
been thinking I’d like to go and
see her.
A real trooper, Sue; always
liked her best, I reckon. I
remember at Mum’s funeral the
other two, that’s Pam and Freda,
nearly went hysterical. You’d of
thought they were losing some-
one they thought a lot of or
something. If they did, they
never showed it before, and that’s
what counts, I reckon. I
remember young Sue just looked
up at me, disgusted like ; she was
the one who thought a lot of
Mum.
Anyway, I thought I’d go and
see young Sue and her husband.
Never seen him before, but Sue
wrote and said how nice he was
and that was good enough for
me. And she told me all about
their cute little house and said
come along and see us some-
time; and I thought maybe I’d
take her up on it.
Suppose you think it strange
me not being at the wedding
and not giving her away maybe.
Well, they had no wedding, that
is, not formal-like; just a
registry-joint. I would of been
the one give her away if there
was a big wedding because I
don’t think we got any uncles or
that, not as I know of, that is.
And there’s a big meeting or
two Spring Carnival or some-
thing—on at the trots, and so I
thought it’s maybe a good
chance to duck over for a look
at the trotters, the good-’uns.
And there’s a sort of a third
bird for this stone: well, Mere-
dith’s got a daughter, and I still
got a sort of a crush on her;
you know the way it is.
When I was there before, with
Meredith, that is, we sort of give
each other the eye, and more than
that. Well, the point is it led to
Meredith an’ me having a chin-
wag. And in this chin-wag he
tells me in a nice, roundabout
sort of way that I’m not good
enough for his daughter. You
know the way it is, not enough
means to support her or some-
thing like that.
That’s the way with these
blokes. They hump a few nags
round the bush and maybe win
a race here and there. Then
because they got the gift of the
gab, they talk some bloke in with
a few quid and he buys them a
nag. And it’s a good nag, maybe
a classy two-year-old at the
sales, and he wins a few races
with it and the guy with the
cash thinks he’s on velvet and
buys the trainer-bloke a few
more nags and he’s a big-shot
trainer.
I’m not saying this happened
to Meredith; I’m not sure. But
that’s the way it is, and soon they
think they’re King Muck and
won’t let their daughter talk to
anyone hasn’t got a limousine.
Well, most of their daughters
don’t want to talk to anyone
hasn’t got a limousine; but
Barbara, that’s Meredith’s
daughter, she’s not like that.
She’s always the same, and talks
to anyone.
Though I say it myself, I’m
big and dark and you know
what I mean. Well, she sort of
fell for me, I reckon ; maybe
only a schoolgirl-craze sort of
thing ; she’s only about seventeen
at the time. But I reckon we’d of
got on pretty well only for her
old man. She’s got the charm;
that Barbara.
The way I see it, if I go to the
trots and see her there and tell
her the way it is, me having a
few greenbacks and that —well,
I thought, that is if she still feels
the same about it, she could
maybe tell her old man and we
could sort of patch things up.
Anyway, I lands in the big
smoke and hops a train, an
electric, out to North Sydney.
And Sue’s at the station waiting,
and I thinks to myself this
accountant bloke’s a pretty
lucky guy. So she takes me to
their little place and it’s a swell
little joint, a good view, good
neighbors, Sue says, and a cosy
place like that —what more could
you ask for?
And her husband, Dick that
is, comes out of the shower and
gives me a good hard hand-
shake and a fair-dinkum smile
and “Pleased to meet you” and
I like him straight-off. Then Sue
starts to say something and
blushes and then gets it out that
she’s going to have a baby. And
I congratulate them; then I
crack a few jokes, and Dick
laughs and I know he’s a decent
bloke.
I ask them if they’d like to
come to the trots, and they say
they’re sorry but they booked
their seats months back for the
opera tonight. And I’m just as
pleased, because what I want to
do tonight you don’t want to
be walking round with your sister
and brother-in-law; embarrass-
ing enough, I reckon.
So we have an early tea and
I thank them and wish them
both good-luck and all that,
and I say I’ll stay in a hotel if
I stay-over and not to worry;
and I grab a train for the city.
T>EING a big meeting at the
trots I guess it’ll be best if
I get there early. I buy a trot-
paper off one of the news-kids
and it gives the first race at 7.25
and three specials. One of
them’s a horse of Meredith’s, and
in the big race, and I remember
it’s one I used to work for him.
It’s now six-o’clock and I see
a bus with “Racecourse” written
on it and I can’t think of any-
thing else to do, so I jump this
bus and out to the trots. And
the bus stops right at this little
pub just opposite the trots. I’m
just getting out of the bus and
trying to decide whether I’ve got
time for a drink before I go over
and try to get a stand-ticket
when this voice says “Well, look
who it is!” and I look and it’s
Jim Collins used to do a bit of
punting for Meredith.
He’s standing outside the pub
with a middy in his hand and a
couple of other silk-tie lairs
standing beside him and he
introduces me and says: “Come
on in and have one for the
books.”
His hangers-on laugh and I
figure it’s a variation on one for
the road. But I tell him about
wanting to get a stand-ticket.
He says, “Here, but it’s the last
one. I just gave one to Fred and
Chicka here,” and he hands me
a ticket.
Well, I offer him the cash for
it, but he won’t take it. Anyway,
blokes like Jim always get those
sort of things on the grouter, I
reckon. So I buy them a drink.
The shout goes round and we
start talking about the trotters,
naturally, and he tells me he
give Meredith away. More likely
the other way round, I figure;
but I listen to him. And he tells
me he’s with a dinkum bloke
now, name of Brunt, new in the
game.
He starts telling me about a
few good things he’s got to back
for this Brunt tonight, but I
don’t take much notice. I’m not
interested in cleaning the ring
tonight and I order another
round. “Make mine a whisky,”
I tell the barmaid; and the
others look at me.
“This’ll be my last,” Jim tells
me. “Got to get over and see
what they open Bonny Lore at,”
he says. “The boys’ll be staying,
won’t you?” he says. And they
“yes” him, but say they’ve got to
be there and get a price about
this Bonny thing, too, pretty
soon.
Jim darts off and I don’t see
him again that night; and I stay
for another two shouts with the
boys. They stick to the beer,
but I make my last two whiskies
—damn’ fool now I come to
think of it! By the time we get
to the ring in the paddock I’m
feeling a bit crook on it. They
stick around for a while and this
Bonny nag blows to tens and
they snap it.
VI7E get a seat in the grand-
stand and it’s not far from
where Barbara and her mother
usually sit. We sit and wait for
them to come out for the first
and I’m feeling pretty sick. But
hell, when those horses start
walking on to that track and that
bloke says “Your attention,
please. The starters are coming
on to the track for the running,
of the first event, the Qualifying
Stakes,” or something—l tell you
it’s a tonic for me.
There’s a bit of a breeze and
it fans the racetrack-smoke
along under the track-lights.
Things start to hush-up, and
bookies don’t call so loud or so
often, or that’s the'Vay it seems,
and the clerk of the course leads
the mokes past the stand as the
announcer runs through them.
This is only a maiden, you
know, a Qualifying Stakes, but
that’s the way it gets you. It’s
a big night and you know what’s
coming. Some of the nags do a
snake-walk past; and they look
as though they got all night.
Some Of them are on their toes
and in a sweat already; and
they’re the highly-strung types.
Others are pulling so hard on
the bit you’d wonder they
didn’t split their mouths up to
their ears.
They do their preliminary —
trotters, or pacers they are, have
a long warm-up—and we look
for this Bonny the boys have
backed. She looks fine, they
reckon ; but I reckon she’s pacing
like a crab. % But I don’t say
anything. She’s a big mare; a
big bay with big bones, and
carrying a lot of condition over
them. And she’s the type of
mare can carry condition. She’s
got a sort of grace like one of
those new diesels you see on
the way down in the train. Looks
like she could go for a week ;
but she’s going like a crab be-
cause something’s hurting her,
I reckon. And she still does it
when he lets her out along the
back.
There’s one big brown in the
race and I check him in the trot-
paper I bought and it says “May
need the run. First run. from a
spell.” But he looks as forward
in condition as anything in the
race and I reckon he could take
it out.
Well, they jump away and you
can see this mare’s not going to
pace an inch; she’s fighting the
hopples. She breaks up; and
she’s out of it; and the boys
tear up their tickets. But it’s a
great race; and they’ve, got a
lap to go. The red light flashes
and the bell rings, and here’s the
bloke sitting easy as you like on
this brown, tucked on the fence
one from the lead. They hit the
Leger and he’s still there; no
effort. Anyway, the leader turns
it in and the big brown gets the
run as, the leader shifts on the
turn and races away; you can
put down your glasses. I’m
pleased because I picked the
winner. I didn’t have a penny
on him, but I don’t care.
Next hot tip of Jim’s is one of
Brunt’s in the race before the big
race. I keep the eye peeled for
Barbara, but I don’t see her and
I’m glad because maybe it’ll give
this beer and whisky a chance
to wear off.
Anyway, I’m still feeling not
too sure about myself but enjoy-
ing the trots. It’s a great spec-
tacle ; and you got no idea how
I get worked-up over t6e trots.
I always think it’s the old man
in me. Then it’s the fourth, and
Chicka goes in big on Brunt’s
horse, a likely-looking little
customer name of Imperial Son.
Fred goes easy, says he’s not
going to do the rent on a couple
of nags someone tells him; and
he’s smart because this little
fellow runs into a pocket round
the back in the last lap. He gets
a run when it’s all over and flies
to run third.
TTP to now I haven’t had a bet,
and I haven’t sighted Bar-
bara. It could have been the
whisky chasing the beer, I don’t
know, but I start to play the
smart-alec and spruik about this
horse of Meredith’s. I tell this
Fred and Chicka that I used to
look after this horse as if he
was my own because I knew
some day he was going to be a
champion. “And when I was
there,” I says, “he’d only won a
Beginners’ in the scrub!”
Well, I make out I’m a pretty
fair judge of a horse, and I
make it sound as if I’m the one
responsible for him being in this
brass-race. And the boys are
doing their dough and they lap
it up. So we walk into the ring
o Continued on page 30)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.*
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, to*,
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/1 6/
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z;
British Empire £3 Foreign .... £3/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.:.Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
1
Circular Cherti for all typa*
of Recording Iwtrunwrit*
tor any dm ot Madtioary
or Equipn»an«
METER CHART’S • SpacUky
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
him. He could hardly eat or
sleep ; he had the most terrible
fits of rage against everyone in
the town; and when he
happened to see a member of
the committee, even if at a
distance of half-a-block, he
could feel his skin creep with
revulsion.
Well, he didn’t appear before
the full meeting, and he didn’t
get expelled. In fact, he joined
the club. He found it was quite
true that you couldn’t live in
the town once the club had
expelled you. Old Bill told him
that he’d have to leave his hotel
even though he risked losing his
licence over it; he’d have no
customers while Tom was there.
No one else would allow Tom
under their roof. The principal
of the school, too, told him that
he’d have to have him removed.
“Why did you want to stay
there?” I asked him. Because
to me the natural thing to do
seemed to be to refuse to be
bullied and to apply for a move.
“Well,” he explained, “I
suppose it was mainly obstinacy
and a desire to get even some-
how with the committee.”
In the first place, he felt that
it would be a greater triumph
for the committee if he left
than if he stayed. He’d made up
his mind to liberate the children
from the committee’s tyranny,
and though for the time being
he couldn’t do it openly, he was
determined to prepare the way
for it secretly. He knew what
he could do with children.
They liked him, and he could
make them like him still more.
He would work on them subtly
so that they wouldn’t say he
was acting subversively; just a
doubtful look here ; a withdraw-
ing of enthusiasm there; some
lessons in the use of honest
reasoning . . .
He also had a conviction that
if he kept quiet and watched for
the opportunity, the time would
come when he would be able to
challenge and overthrow the
committee. There was still
another reason, and a very
potent one, too; he’d met a
girl he felt he couldn’t leave to
be processed into a standard
Belluga adult citizen.
A very good-looking girl,
too ; her father the only really
big grazier in the district, and
she his only child. Tom
admitted that this latter fact
might have attracted him, too,
at first. Or perhaps that she
was so universally considered to
be the major prize by the
young men of Belluga that he
found it impossible to be out of
at least that competition.
It’s often like that in a
country town.
Tom had admired her in
casual encounters before his
trouble, and really got to know
her at a dance (organised on
behalf of the football-club) soon
after his enforced conversion,
when everybody was making a
deliberate and rather sickening
fuss over him. While he was
watching her, and waiting with
much hand-clenching and lip-
biting for an opportunity to ask
her for a dance, Ritter came
sidling up to him.
“Nice girl,” he said, “isn’t
she?” Ritter never missed
anything.
“Wonderful, wonderful.” Tom
would have agreed with anyone
on that question.
“Marvellous hockey-player,”
Ritter proceeded.
“Is she?” Tom said. “I’m
more interested in her dancing.”
“Dancing is all right,” Ritter
admitted. “It makes for light-
ness and ease of movement.
But you really ' want to know
how they shape at hockey.”
Tom couldn’t see the point of
this. What pleasure was there
in imagining her among those
flying sticks and perhaps getting
a crack on her perfect nose?
“That girl,” Ritter muttered
in his ear, in such an ecstasy
that Tom could almost have con-
cluded that he was in love with
her himself, “married to the
right man, could be the mother
of half-a-team of superb
footballers.”
Tom turned on him in amaze-
ment. Ritter hurried on.
“ ‘Married to the right man,’
I said,” he reiterated.
Tom still said nothing. But
he was shocked. That unique
and splendid girl married to a
Belluga footballer! Ritter, who
had apparently been consoling
himself for the lost opportunities
of youth on somebody’s rum-
bottle, went excitedly on.
“It nearly happened, too. It
looked most promising. But
when it came to the point, she
refused him. It was a great
blow to the club.”
IvrOTHING could have been
better designed to bring
out Tom’s chivalry. A lovely
girl at the mercy of the sinister,
plotting committee; and she all
the more endeared to him by her
resistance to their designs.
As soon as the music stopped
he rushed from the deplorable
Ritter to engage her for the next
dance, and I could readily
imagine how he kept his crowd
of competitors at a distance by
the volatility of his conversation.
Then the music started again,
and for the time being no one
could threaten an interruption.
I had this dance-scene told to
me many times, always with
great animation ; sometimes just
the dialogue, sometimes with
analytical and descriptive
supplements. It was, he assured
me, the core of the whole of the
succeeding events. They danced
for a while in silence, matching
steps; then the girl said, “I
believe you’ve been in trouble
with our committee.”
She didn’t say it, as any of
the others would, as though he’d
disgraced himself thereby. She
said it rather in the manner of a
high-school student excited
about a classmate being sent up
to the headmaster; or like an
innocent but mischievous
churchgoer discussing a fellow-
member who’d been too high-
spirited for the minister’s liking
at a church-social.
“Yes,” said Tom, “I did have
an argument with them.”
He felt ashamed that she
should know of his submission.
He didn’t think it would be wise
to tell her of his reservations.
Not yet, anyhow. She had that
fresh, young, candid, almost
schoolgirlish-look which led
him to believe that she might
not understand his need of
deception.
“Don’t worry about it,” she
said, drawing the wrong con-
clusion. “You’re not the only
one.” Then with an air of great
daring she confessed, “/ was in
trouble with them once.”
“Oh, yes,” he said, thinking
that he might be able to tell her
after all; “I heard a hint of that.
I’d like you to tell me all about
it.”
“It wasn’t much. I upset one
of our footballers. It made him
play so badly that it lost us a
couple of matches.” .
Although she was quite
serious, he had to laugh.
“How did it happen?”
“There’s not much to tell; I
only refused to marry him.”
“I’d probably shoot myself if
you refused to marry me.”
She surprised him with a
tantalising look, though it was
brief and of an Arcadian
innocence.
“The safest thing would be
not to ask.”
“I intend to ask. But first tell
me about the other man. Had
you been encouraging him?”
“Not really. I just threw my
arms around his neck and kissed
him when he’d scored a couple
of magnificent tries. That
started it.”
“I’m not surprised.”
“Well, it made him quite silly
about me, though I’d meant
nothing by it. But since he was
the most attractive boy in
Belluga, and I’d been brought-up
to admire footballers above all
other men, I went round with
him for a while.”
“Then, glory be, you dumped
him?”
“Yes, but you’d never believe
the trouble it caused. It cost
my father a thousand-pounds;
a donation, they called it,
towards the cost of the club’s
new dressing-rooms.”
“Great Scot, a thousand-
pounds! Didn’t they threaten
to expel you?”
“Oh, no.” She gave him a
mischievous smile. “That’s only
for serious offenders.”
“That was an awful lot to pay.
Surely the goodwill of the club
couldn’t have meant that much
to you or your father.”
“Not exactly. You see, Dad
was in a tight spot over another
matter, and he needed some help
from the locals. But that’s
graziers’ shop-talk. It might
bore you.”
“Not if you tell me,” he said.
“Well, you asked for it. You
see, nearly all the big holdings
around here have been cut-up
for closer-settlement. Then we
heard that our place was going
on the list. Dad was terribly
upset; he just lives for his land
and his sheep, and it would
break his heart to lose it after
it’s been in the family for so
many generations. Our only
chance was to get a public-
petition against the resumption
on the grounds that Dad has a
stud-flock that supplies high-
quality breeding-sheep for small
settlers dozens of miles around.”
“It seems odd to me that a
football-committee could pull
any weight in a matter of
political policy.”
“You haven’t been here long
enough. The football-commit-
tee runs everything in this
town. You see, everybody
belongs to the club, so the com-
mittee claims the right to act in
every matter affecting them.
You’d never believe how they
push themselves in. There’s not
a thing they don’t know about
and interfere with.”
“And just how did an intelli-
gent girl like you feel about that
state of affairs?”
“It wasn’t a matter of how I
felt. I was so concerned about
Dad and our land.”
By that time Tom felt that he
was making very good progress
indeed. He took a look at
Ritter, watching everything and
everybody with a proprietary
air, and he had a conviction that
somehow or other, through this
girl, he was going to discomfit
him mightily.
NEXT time he saw Daphne
was at a football-match.
He contrived to sit. beside
her, but not once during the
match could he feel sure that
she knew he was there. That
was how people felt about foot-
ball in Belluga, even Daphne.
They were playing at Wag-
hurst, a town nearly ten times
as large as Belluga, with a
wealthy club which employed
five “paid players.” These paid
players, like those in so many
country towns, were recruited
mainly from crack city teams.
Paid players are provided with
well-paid jobs in the town
and free hotel - accommoda-
tion for their families, and
receive as well a direct re-
muneration from club funds
varying from three-hundred
pounds a season for an average
player to one-thousand pounds
for a brilliant man who can also
act as coach and captain. It was
Belluga’s great grief that they
could not afford to employ a
paid playing-coach.
The Waghurst star was an
extremely expensive fullback, a
lovely player to watch. A horde
of Waghurst women around
Tom, some of them middle-aged
matrons, were reeling with bliss
as they watched him perform.
The grace and ease With which
he caught the ball when it came
hurtling down, wet and slippery,
from a powerful kick by the
Belluga fullback; the out-
rageous nerve with which he
evaded the tackles while he took
his time to get in his return-
kick ; the ferocious certainty
with which he hunted-down,
overtook and grassed a flying
Belluga winger in possession of
the ball; the calm and casual
way in which he converted tries
from the most difficult angles,
and kicked penalty-goals from
nearly jialfway!
He had a winning manner.
He seemed to get an enormous
amount of fun out of the game.
When his female admirers were
shrieking in terror lest he be
caught before he got in his kick,
imploring him by his first-name,
“Johnny! Johnny! ”to take care,
he’d manage a little friendly
gesture of acknowledgment
before he dropped the ball, and
then it was a case of “Look out,
Belluga!” If it wasn’t a field-
goal, it would at least yield a
gain for the team of half the
length of the field.
Tom caught Daphne actually
weeping. He discovered that it
wasn’t only because of the
crushing defeat being inflicted
on her own team; it was as
much from admiration of
Johnny Payne. Not, as Tom
was at great pains to assure me,
that it was a normal and natural
admiration, but a development
of the way she’d been brought-
up under the shadow of the
Belluga committee’s domination.
Johnny Payne was an outstand-
ing football-player; because he
belonged to an upper-priesthood
of sport, he merited the utmost
in devotion and worship from a
girl like her.
“If only we had a player like
that in our team, we’d never lose
a match,” she said repeatedly, as
if nothing on earth could be
more desirable.
When the match was over
some enthusiast came rushing on
to the field with an enormous
wreath of flowers and hung it
round Johnny Payne’s neck.
There was a great roar of
applause and laughter at this
romantic, but locally unheard of,
gesture. Apparently it' made
Johnny uncomfortable ; he took
it off, and walked along the rails
with it until he saw Daphne.
Even Tom had been so
affected by the adulation of the
crowd for Johnny that it was
quite a surprise for him to find
that close-up he was just an
awkward and rather bashful
boy. He held the wreath out
to Daphne, red-faced because he
didn’t know what to say or how
to say it; then suddenly the
words came in an unregulated
rush.
“You’re the most bonzer
sheila I’ve ever seen. I always
look out for you when we play
Belluga.”
The Waghurst women round
about howled with dismay. But
the gesture did not diminish
Johnny’s popularity; rather the
opposite. As the crowds filed
out of the gates, Tom heard
weighty judgment pronounced:
“Well, you can say what you
like, but I reckons it was real
nice for Johnny to give it to a
Belluga girl after the trouncing
we gave them.”
AT the dance put on that
night by Waghurst there
was popular, romantic agree-
ment that Johnny Payne was to
have most of Daphne’s dances.
Lanes opened up each time
the music started to give him
unimpeded and non-competitive
access to her, and spectators and
dancers craned their necks to
share the mutual pleasure which,
comment led Tom to believe,
the two young people were
obtaining from each other’s
company.
Tom did contrive to have a
few dances with her, but the
overt disapproval of all present
left him in no doubt that he was
being a tough-hided interloper.
Tom told me he could have
endured that, if Johnny hadn’t
made such a point of gyrating
near them so that he could ogle
Daphne over the heads of his
silently suffering partners, or if
he’d been able to assure himself
that Daphne wasn’t more or less
on the lookout for him.
(To be completed next week )
NOVEMBER EVENING
Here in this blue world, in this dusky land
Where sky and river marry, comes no sound
Of man; the drifting earth hears, evening-bound,
Only the lips of water on the sand,
The hush of grasses. Here one lies becalmed.
But tell the lapwing, tell the gull, this charmed
World is a fancy; say they are beguiled
By a soft blue mist, that from this dusk, this child,
Shall grow the dawn, when every beast goes armed
And man and earth no more are reconciled.
W.A.
RANDOLPH STOW.


Coming Southward
Riding the Red Whirlwind
2. Can Asia Be Saved From Communism?
By DENIS WARNER
LOOKING back over the
past 10 years, the West’s
only real achievement in
Asia since winning the
Pacific war appears to have been
the granting of independence
to India, Pakistan, Ceylon and
Burma by Britain and to the
Philippines by the United States.
And even this has been
heavily qualified by the catas-
trophic casualness with which
India was partitioned, and the
quaint but enduring belief
expressed by some of the
leaders of the newly-independent
countries that colonialism is still
a greater danger in the area
than Communism.
The separation of Pakistan’s
administrative headquarters
from its principal centre of
population by a thousand miles
of foreign and unfriendly terri-
tory was an act of madness ;
partition cost scores of
thousands of lives and will
inevitably lead to further blood-
shed and distress.
And intolerance of the gutter-
ing candle of colonialism and
tolerance of the bushfire of
international Communism is a
form of suicidal mania in both
Burma and India.
Matched with other develop-
Tnents, however, it is encourag-
ing that India, Pakistan and
Ceylon still remain with us in
the Commonwealth, and that
Pakistan is our military ally in
the South-East Asian Collective
Defence Treaty.
Perhaps because it looks so
exclusively towards the United
States, the Philippines attracts
even less attention in Australia
than other Asian States; but
here, also, there have been some
cheering results.
Largely due to the efforts of
President Ramon Magsaysay,
the Hukbalahap movement —
which, like so many original
war-time resistance - groups in
Asia and in Europe, was Com-
munist-inspired—has been virtu-
ally eliminated as a post-war
threat, and the Filipino people
generally are as friendly dis-
posed towards the West as the
average Siamese, who suffer less
from xenophobia and anti-
whiteism than any other people
in Asia.
For the rest, the West can
count few blessings from all its
plurality of post-war policies.
No mission, for instance, was
ever more misguided than
General Marshall’s immediate
post-war attempts in China, as
President Truman’s special
envoy, to reconcile the National-
ists and the Communists.
Communists negotiate for the
benefit of themselves alone ; but
the West had not learned this
then; and, when one recalls the
Geneva-conference decisions on
Indo-China early in 1954, may
not have learned, even now,
that when they talk compromise
the Communists merely intend
conquest.
The Mao Formula
What happened in China after
the failure of the Marshall
mission, when the numerically
and materially inferior Com-
munist forces swamped the
Nationalists, was not politically,
or socially, or even militarily,
the result merely of Nationalist
ineffectiveness.
It was not that the National-
ists were corrupt and the Com-
munists pure.
Though the material the Com-
munists turned to their own
ends was the suffering hundreds
of millions of Chinese peasants
with empty bellies, the downfall
of the Nationalists lay primarily
in the successful application of
Mao Tse-tung’s politico-military
science, which states explicitly
the formula by which the weak
can beat the strong in what the
Communists call “colonial and
semi-colonial” countries.
Mao’S theories are a brilliant
blending of the political with
the military, of war and “peace,”
of guerrilla warfare in the
country with political warfare in
the cities, of strategical inferior-
ity with tactical superiority. But
the countless Western post-
mortems that dissected the
remains of the Nationalists
looked for natural causes of
death,, and so often overlooked
the strengths of the virus to
which they had been exposed:
the result was total failure to
appreciate that Mao had
founded a revolutionary science
that might be applied with equal
“Blast these corrugations !”
facility in every Asian —and, for
that matter, every African —
country.
Long after the Red Flag was
fluttering from the Peking mast-
head and the Chinese Commun-
ists were acknowledging the
leadership of the Soviet Union
and carefully toeing the
Cominform-line, the West was
still hopefully tinkering with the
idea that the Chinese revolution-
aries were merely agrarian
reformists and not Marxists at
all!
This assessment was a typical
result of the incomplete
examinations to which I have
referred. It is true that in the
late ’twenties and early ’thirties
Mao incurred the wrath of the
Communist party by his in-
sistence that the cloth of Com-
munism had to be individually
tailored to fit the requirements
of China. As a party organiser
in Hunan province he had found
himself in a ludicrous position,
trying to stir up revolution
among the virtually non-
existent proletariat, while ignor-
ing the untapped reservoir of
millions of discontented
peasants. And it was not until
the mid-’thirties that Mao’s
theories about the peasants were
fully accepted by the party ; not,
it should be noted, as a devia-
tion from the ultimate Marxist
goal of industrialisation, but as
the means to tl;e end.
Western Blundering
This initial confusion among
the Communists themselves
complicated, the Nationalist
symptoms, and thus their
inaccurately-diagnosed collapse
led in turn to other misfortunes.
For instance, when the South
Koreans clamored for tanks and
artillery and aircraft to match
the forces the Communists were
building in North Korea, they
were poohpoohed by their
American advisers.
“Look at China,” the Ameri-
can military advisory group in
Korea used to reply to the
plaintive Korean requests.
“Tanks and planes didn’t get
Chiang Kai-shek anywhere.
What Asia needs in an Army
is a man with a gun.”
The result of this naive over-
simplification was that, while the
Russians went on arming the
Northerners with a spearhead of
a hundred T-34 tanks and some
efficient artillery regiments, the
Americans in the South per-
sisted with their view that tanks
and artillery had done nobody
any good in China and would
serve no purpose in Korea.
They learned better in the last
week of June and the first weeks
of July, 1950, when nothing in
the available American arsenal
could halt the Red advance;
and, by then, it was almost too
late.
In Indo-China, the French,
with the lessons of both China
and Korea clearly before them,
remained openly contemptuous
of the Communist Vietminh
until the very day of their in-
glorious defeat at Dien Bien
Phu in May, 1954.
They used to caff the Vietminh
“les jaunes” and sneer at their
refusal to engage in positional
warfare. They were sure the
Communists were engaged Mn
nothing more original than a
war of attrition.
“They’re only trying to wear
us out,” they argued. “It’s just
a matter of persistence on our
part. The Viets will never dare
to engage us in open battle.”
They were right-up to a
point. Mao had laid it down
that a Communist Army should
engage in battle only when it
Was sure of victory. And with
their own lessons of the near-
disaster in Korea in the 1951
spring offensive to guide them,
the Chinese advisers counselled
their apt Vietminh pupils to run
away until, in the spring of 1954,
General Henri Navarre pre-
sented the elite of the French
Union forces in Indo-China on
a platter at Dien Bien Phu, and
16 battalions were annihilated
in the concentrated Vietminh
onslaught.
Suddenly, and too late, the
French discovered that what
they had thought of as a cam-
paign of attrition was, in fact, a
carefully-planned annihilation.
Blissful Underestimates
In every Asian country the
West and its allies, in opposing
Communism, have been saddled
with the weight of their
ignorance. -
The refusal to accept the fact
that the indoctrinated Asian
fighting-man is a worthy foe is
almost pathological.
I remember chatting with the
commanding-officer of the Ist
Battalion, Middlesex Regiment,
in Korea just a few days after
the British had taken over a
share of the Naktong River line
in the first months of the war.
The colonel was scathing about
what he called the “school-
children battalions” that had
routed the Americans.
He, too, learned his lesson.
Not the least of the dangers
associated with this blissful out-
look is that overestimation often
follows the shock associated
with the initial discovery of
underestimation. This has
occurred time and again, but
nowhere more disastrously than
in Korea.
The Chinese “Volunteer”
Army under Peng Teh-huai, a
veteran guerrilla-leader from the
earliest days of Mao’s campaign-
ing in the mountains of cenftral
China, had manpower and the
elementary Mao principle that
small forces operating far
behind the enemy’s front-line
confuse and tie-down his forces
and thus enhance the prospects
for a major thrust elsewhere.
But that this worked so
spectacularly in the Yalu River
offensive late in 1950, when the
Chinese Communists first
entered the Korean war, was
due more to a combination of
the remote - control General
MacArthur exercised from
Tokyo and to the fact that the
Bth Army and 10th Corps, the
two U.N. forces, were separated s
by a wide gap made to order for
Mao’s theories of warfare than
to any basic Communist
superiority
Peng’s guerrillas sped along
the mountainous spine of Korea,
far behind the U.N. lines, and
the main Communist forces
looked for tactically inferior
forces and struck hard. To the
U.N forces, and to the world,
China was suddenly Brob-
dingnag; the Bth Army and 10th
Corps reeled back over the 38th
Parallel in a rout that made the
first disasters of July seem like
an organised military manoeuvre.
T ® » j-rr , ,
It was a very different story
m the following spring, when
the U.N. forces now a compac
group under the tactical
command of the Bth Army, held
“ap™or.L W cLTse r S d e y^. e
But when the offensive was
and
part of a mllllon Chinese and
North K ° rean wn t^°^ ce the
ready for the c, ™P‘deprace the
West suddenly held off. It
the Communists licked and
could not believe that this was
true,
, M
China s New Army
We are paying dearly for this.
The alacrity with which the
Communists learned their lesson
was instantly reflected in their
call for peace talks. Even in-
doctrinated man could not stand
against metal, they realised,
And thus, while negotiations
dragged on for months at Pan-
munjom, the creation of the new
Red Army began. The loose,
unwieldy peasant-force was knit
into a compact, modern fighting-
arm, based on the Soviet Red
Army.
When the Korean war began
the theoretical strength of the
Chinese Red Army was 70 army
corps, or 210 divisions. Today
its strength is 35 army corps, Or
75 divisions. Manpower has
been cut only slightly ; the divi-
sions have grown in strength
from about 10,000 men to
16,000-18,000 and about five
times in firepower.
A continuing process of selec-
tive demobilisation is now
weeding-out the veterans of the
Civil War, and the junior com-
mands are being filled by men
who gained their experience, first
in victory and then in defeat, in
Korea.
Should the West ever be called
on to face the Chinese Red
Army in war, it will encounter
a very much tougher foe than
the Korean force of 1950.
,
Long-range Plan
But, imposing as the figures
I have cited may seem in com-
parison with the Western armies
of the day, we have seen noth-
ing yet. The Chinese intention
is not just to build a gredt Army
but an Army that will be free
from reliance on supplies from
the Soviet Union, and which
will ultimately have its own
nuclear weapons—an Army, in
short, that will be too strong to
oppose.
This is not a short-range plan,
The Communists rarely have
short-range plans. Mao once
told his students in Yenan that
it was all very well to have the
spirit to beat the enemy before
breakfast, but that any concrete
plan to do so was suicidal. He
described the 10 years of war
against the Nationalists—includ-
in 8> incidentally, the fantastic
Long March which took the
lives of 80,000 of the 100,000
who embarked on it—as merely
the preface: the full chapters,
he said, were yet to come,
At the earliest, China could
become self-sufficient in arms at
end of The first three Five
ar aas ’ _ or .12 years hence,
Tbe emphasis in the first and
second plans is the construction*
of heavy industries China must
t reb] e her iron and steel output
h 7 the construction of two vast
new works before she can even
be §‘ n t 0 contemplate the pro-
ductlon of ma J or weapons of
war - ' . ,
Small-arms, bazookas, ex-
Pl° sives and a variety of minor
weapons are produced in con-
sjdefable £ tilies n ow, and
avai r a ble to equip the
Vietminh armies in th 4 e 5 0sta
o£ (he Indo _ China war^
* tanks truck la artil :
**
( Continued on page 27)


——INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Eong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Caulfield’s 50,000 attendance
was a fitting reward for Mel-
bourne Racing Club’s enter-
prise in bringing leading
overseas jockeys to Australia to
compete in the International
Stakes. Many of the big crowd
went to Caulfield specially to
see those noted horsemen in
action, and to compare their
riding styles and ability with
the local jockeys.
The Queen’s No. 1 horseman,
W. H. Carr, brilliantly won the
International on the favorite, Sir
William, defeating Brookon,
ridden by American J. Adams,
with South African H. Wright
third on Blonde Bascillia, the
minor placegetters being out-
siders. All the visiting horse-
men acquitted themselves well.
At her second start following
a spell Firth, a Masthead (imp.)
filly from Narbada, had an easy
win in Caulfield’s La Petite
Maiden Stakes for two year-old
fillies. Trained by Phil Burke,
the youngster is raced by her
breeders. Her lines indicate
staying ability, as her dam is a
Dhoti (imp.) mare from Miss
Gallant by Windbag from
Gallantic by Heroic.
Prominent Melbourne sports-
man A. R. Creswick, who has
spent many thousands of pounds
on horseflesh and has won many
races in the process, paid a lot?
of money, 3300gn5., for Centre-
way as a yearling at the Rand-
wick auction last April. The
brother to Delta won at his first
race-start in Caulfield’s Durban
Stakes for maiden two-year-old
colts and geldings. The colt is
brother also to Deep River
(now in the U.S.A.) and to
Midway. Delta won 22 races
and £48,269 in stakes, and
Centreway already is being
hailed as another Delta. The
colt has the right background,
and Caulfield racegoers were
impressed by his sterling per-
formance. Mentone trainer
Fred Hoysted might be shelter-
ing a potential champion, whose
owner will give him every
chance to develop.
Four Chantry (imp.) yearlings
were catalogued at the last Mel-
bourne sales, and one of the
cheapest lots was a winner in
two-year-old Maiden company
at Moonee Valley during the
holiday period. He was Sir
Chantry, who cost owner-trainer
R. G. Chapman a modest 85gns.
Having his third race-start, the
colt scored with something in
reserve. He comes fro*i the
family which produced Playboy,
winner of the A.J.C. Derby,
and Hoyle (Moonee Valley
Cup). His dam, Floy Bunsby,
is a Manolive mare from Floy
by Captain Bunsby (imp.).
Chantry won eight races in
England.
Recount, another winner in
Maiden two-year-old company
at Moonee Valley, is a speedy
type and could quickly add to
earnings. Costing lOOOgns. as a
yearling at the New Zealand
auction—-the bid of Melbourne
trainer Theo Lewis —he is a son
of Count Rendered (imp.) and
Love Letter by Parchment and
comes from a family of
Dominion gallopers which has
including Sumner, Lord Advo-
cate, Treasurer and Cottingham.
Achilles, winner of £14,494 in
stakes, including the 1950
A.J.C. Epsom Handicap and the
All-Aged Stakes, carried the
colors of A.J.C. committeeman
T. L. Baillieu, who might have
another equally as successful in
the two-year-old colt Troy.
Opening his winning account in
the Tattersall’s Juvenile Maiden
Handicap at Randwick, Troy
ran on strongly to beat the
better-fancied Reign and Black
Simon. Troy’s dam, Whippet, is
a Whirlaway (imp.) mare from
Corbiere (imp.) by Le Phare.
The progeny of Achilles, a hand-
some individual as racehorse
and as sire, are racing in their
first season, and Troy is. his first
winner.
Form worked out correctly in
Tattersall’s Carrington Stakes,
favorite Lindbergh having a
comfortable victory over Apple
Bay and veteran Spearby.
T. Mullane, who has long been
associated with Harry Darwon,
trainer of Lindbergh, rode an
excellent race. It was Lind-
bergh’s fifth success this season ;
he now is living up to the
promise he showed at two years,
when he won £11,520 in stakes,
his wins including the Randwick.
youngsters’ double, the Sires’
Produce Stakes and Champagne
Stakes, as well as the Breeders’
Plate.
Former A.J.C. paddock-
bookmaker Jack Shaw races
Star of Egypt, who opened her
winning account in Maiden
juvenile company at Randwick.
She cost Shaw 700gns. as a
yearling, and is by Nilo (imp.)
from Jeanette by Brueghel (imp.)
from Pannett by Pantheon
(imp.). Her family lines include
Polycletan, a winner of the
Metropolitan.
In his win at Randwick
Transmonde indicated that he
might stay a bit with more
experience. Lindbergh is best to
date of the progeny of his sire,
Transatlantic (imp.). Dam of
the colt, Veiled Beauty (by
Veilmond), traces back to
Positano (imp.), sire of noted
stayers in earlier years, among
them Lord Cardigan, Lord
Nolan and Rainbird, three
winners of the Melbourne Cup.
Pantomime was a speedy filly,
her wins including the A.J.C.
Kirkham and Widden Stakes,
and her two-year-old daughter,
French Fable, appears to have
the family pace. At her second
race-start she cleared out from
opponents in Tattersall’s Second
Maiden, giving part-owner
George Christmas a seasonal
and welcome change of luck.
He hadn’t won a race in years,
his previous success having been
with Pantomime. He bred
French Fable, whose sire
(according to the racebook) was
Emperor (Fr.) or Royal Blue
(imp.), but Christmas stated
after the race that Emperor
definitely was the sire. The
stable had something to go on,
as another member, Star of
Egypt, who had won a few days
earlier, had been defeated in
trials by French Fable, a shapely
filly with ability to get to the
front quickly and stay there.
Pantomime is a daughter of Ajax
and Ajixa, a winner of the
Gimcrack Stakes, by Brueghel
(It.) from Volume by Valais
(imp.). E. D. Lawson trains
French Fable, and his stable is
in luck.
One of the most improved
Sydney gallopers is Co Supreme,
who up till Saturday had won
four races from his last five
starts. He cleared out from the
opposition in the Randwick
Pace Welter, his first success in
open company. Now a five-year-
old, he has come solid with
racing, and trainer Harry Plant,
Q f Bernborough fame, has the
Crown Street gelding particu-
larly fit.
....
Pert h Cup (two miles) was won
, 4 _ to4 yabaroo, defeating
Dominic an d Rexaldo. Mallant,
winner of the Perth Derby but
beat en favorite in the Cup, was
bred at Qa k Range Stud (N.S.W.)
and is by Nilo (imp.), w h o is
en j o ying a great run of success
as a s j re Nilo is located at
Segenhoe Stud, Scone, quite close
to oa k Range. Dam of Mallant,
Constant Belle, is by Constant
Son (imp.) from Shirrob by
Baralong (imp.). The colt, who
has the Carbine blood in his
make-up, is expected to race in
the eastern States in the autumn,
He has won nine races.
....
Ajax, winner of 36 races and
£40,275 in stakes, and one of
tbe most brilliant horses to have
raced in this country, figures in
the pedigree of two-year-old
Clan Stewart, who showed some
of the Ajax speed when winning
a Newcastle sprint by several
lengths and later surprised in the
A.J.C. December Stakes, which
was run during heavy rain.
Clan Stewart is a son of
Golden Chance (imp.) and
Boorabil by Brueghel (imp.)
from Beam (half-sister to Ajax)
by Marconigram (imp.) from
Medmenham (imp.) by Prince
Galahad.
New Zealand’s 30th National
yearling-sales will be held at
Trentham, Wellington, on
January 16 and 19, when 388
lots will be submitted. The colts
and fillies are from the
Dominion’s top studs.
* * *
Nominations have closed for
this year’s Inter - Dominion
Pacing Championship, to be run
at Harold Park: 85 horses from
four States and from New
Zealand have been entered. The
calibre of the horses nominated,
the spectacle which trotting pro-
vides at the Harold Park Race-
way, and the lure of the big
prizemoney—the Final’s worth
£12,500 —should combine to
make this the best Inter-
Dominion ever. Four meetings
remain before the carnival is
staged on the second Saturday
in February. Qualifying heats
will be run on the 11th, 15th and
18th and the Final on Saturday
the 25th.
Harold Park record-holder
and glamor-horse of 12 months
back, Uncle Joe is being
brought slowly to his peak at
the gymkhanas. Uncle Joe is the
type of horse to win an Inter-
Dominion: he’s a big, game
fellow who gets over a lot of
ground, is untroubled by racing
wide and unwinds a powerful
sprint. But Uncle Joe went in
the tendon when he looked
ready to sweep what he had left
unswept before him; and Bert
Alley’s task of bringing him up
for the bard Inter-Dominion
grind on the Harold Park course,
which is severe on a horse with
bad legs, is a tough one.
Incidentally, Uncle Joe’s full-
brother, Ronald (Robert Derby-
Zetland’s Pick), a little fellow by
comparison with his big brother,
was beaten a nose at the last
Harold Park meeting in one of
the closest finishes ever on that
course. Star Haven, Ronald and
Travis Hall went to the line in'
that order, a nose and a nose
between them.
As a captain Keith Miller
doesn’t please everyone all the
time. Early in the season one
critic accused him of “half-
heartedness” in grade-cricket,
because he disappointed specta-
tors by not batting or bowling
in one or two matches —mainly,
he claimed, to give his team-
mates more of a chance. Justi-
fiable criticism; though, in other
circumstances, Miller might have
been accused, as was George
Giffen, of “hogging” the batting
and bowling.
Then, in the Shield game
against Queensland in Brisbane,
Miller was blamed for N.S.W.’s
failure to win outright—because,
on the last day, he did not
shake-up dilatory batsmen,
delayed his second-innings
closure, connived at the waste
of time listening to the Mel-
bourne Cup broadcast and did
not in the second innings bowl
Davidson, wrecker of Queens-
land in the first innings. On
these points Miller believes there
should be other forms of enter-
tainment (such as the Cup
broadcast) to attract crowd? to
the cricket; arid Davidson actu-
ally was unfit to bowl well.
Even on the closing and the
shaking-up—well, if the match
had been lost, Miller’s captaincy
would have had something more
to answer for.
Miller is also accused of
indulgence towards team-mates
in big cricket as well as in
grade. For instance, a batsman
failing is promoted in the second
innings to ensure him another
chance —and fails again. Or
the speedmen, after breaking
through, are taken off for the
spinners, and the attack gets
collared. In answer, a batsman
picked for first-class cricket
should be able to bat in any
position; and, similarly, a first-
class spin-bowler should have as
much chance as the fast men to
get wickets —and, anyway, the
fast attack, if bowled too long,
can also be collared.
Then there is Miller’s playing-
on in the rain against Victoria in
Melbourne. After Miller him-
self and Crawford had Victoria
down 4-70 at lunch, his con-
tinuing with a sodden ball
enabled the Victorians to rally.
In the upshot, with play on the
second day interrupted by rain
and with no play at all on the
last two days, it didn’t matter at
all, and it may not have made
much difference in any event.
But one or two oT his critics
continued the lambasting.
Miller gave as his reason for
playing in the rain the giving to
paying customers of a full day’s
cricket instead of a mere hour
or so. Not too many cricketers
think in that way. Miller with-
out doubt has the good of the
game at heart; and in this rain-
incident he rightly believed that
the wider view of benefit to
cricket as a whole outweighed
the disadvantages accruing to
N.S.W. in one game. Anyway,
whatever Miller’s faults as a
skipper, no one at present is
more fitted than he to lead
N.S.W.
John Lill, with 89 for S.A.
against Queensland in the game
won by S.A. on the first innings,
was unlucky to miss a century
in his first Shield game. Captain
of Adelaide University team, he
recently led an S.A. second-XI
side against Victoria in Mel-
bourne. He is a son of A. G.
Lill, who in 1925 won the S.A.
football-league’s highest award,
the Magarey medal.
The Victoria-N.S.W. second-
XI match in Sydney, played just
before Christmas and won on
the first innings by Victoria, was
given different ratings by the
press of the two States. The
Sydney press featured it, pos-
sibly mainly because several of
the N.S.W. men were getting
their “last chance” to win back
a place in the State side. (N.S.W.
skipper Carroll, who made 177,
did so.) By contrast, the Vic-
torian press almost ignored the
game—gave no preview of it
or team-lists, and only the
sketchiest reports. One paper
even persisted in labelling Vic.
double-century-maker Hunting-
ton Huntingford.
Queensland ’keeper Wally
Grout in N.S.W.’s first innings
caught the first four batsmen to
go, and took six catches in the
innings. Not an Australian
record, but close to it. One at
least of the catches, a dive to leg
to dismiss Burke, \vas in the
Oldfield class. When Tallon was
out through injury in 1951-52,
and in other matches when
Tallon was away, Grout’s dis-
plays behind were so efficient he
was given a good chance of going
to England in 1953 ; but Tallon
returned at near his best and
Grout had to drop out. With
Langley and Maddocks around,
he’ll probably miss the trip to
England again this year; but
he’s not far behind them as a
’keeper.
* * *
Kurrewa IV, first across the
line in the 1954 Sydney-Hobart
yacht-race, crossed second in
this year’s race, a mere 20min.
behind another cutter, Even,
after it had been even-Steven
between her and Even all the way
down. Winner of the race on
handicap was the yawl Moonbi,
one of the smallest yachts in the
race.
* * *
There were rash forecasts that
the Hungarians were going to
run a “four-minute” mile, with
other runners given the chance
of beating Landy’s Australian-
record 4min. 2sec., at the meet-
ing in Sydney. But Rozsavolgyi
(first) and Tabori (second),
though having the race always
in hand, were for some reason
never really flat-out; Roz. won
in the outside time of 4min. 7.8
sec. There was one new Aus-
tralian record at the meeting—
Graham Thomas, of N.S.W.,
improving on his own time for
the 3000-metres steeplechase.


all have to make the long
journey across the Trans-
Siberian railway.
Soviet technicians and man-
agement have taken over the
responsibility for the construc-
tion of 156 major industrial
projects in China, and, whatever
the limitations in Chinese man-
agement and technical skills, we
cannot doubt that the Russians
will succeed, or that in 10 or 12
years’ time a sufficient reserve
of trained Chinese will be avail-
able to carry the industrial
revolution from the primary into
the secondary stage.
To ensure this, of course, the
Chinese need to be certain that
their plans will not be upset by
a major war. Like the Rus-
sians, the Chinese never tire 1 of
telling us they are men of
“peace.” They don’t, of course,
pretend that “peace” means the
maintenance of the status quo.
As they see it, the revolution in
China is only a part of the con-
tinuing world revolution, and
must go on until capitalism is
eliminated and we are all
enthusiastic shouters of slogans
and the Red Flag flies in all
lands.
But though they are oppor-
tunistic, they are not adven-
turistic in their pursuit of this
goal. They are sure they can
win without major war.
They thought there was a
grand chance in Korea to make
a quick killing and, by using
the stratagem of calling their
expeditionary force “volunteers,”
to localise the campaign. Their
guess was only half-right, but
they correctly interpreted world
opinion .when they bargained on
containing the conflict in Korea.
Formosa Objective
Again, to any student of Mao
Tse-tung, it was clear that the
Communists had no intention of
precipitating a world war in the
Formosa Strait last January.
Their intention was to demon-
strate their newly - developed
strength against a target that no
Power in its senses would
precipitate a world war to
defend.
They chose the tiny, rocky
island of Ikiang, north of the
Tachen group that clusters along
the coast of China a couple of
hundred miles south of
Shanghai.
On Ikiang, Chiang Kai-shek
had fewer than a battalion of
guerrillas, but to take it the
Communists turned on a com-
bined land-sea-air operation that
all Western intelligence-agencies
had hitherto considered far
beyond their capabilities.
Jet-fighters and twin-engined
jet-bombers, operating from new
fields around and south of
Shanghai, swooped down on the
unhappy garrison, while a com-
pact naval force, headed by a
couple of new destroyers —a
present from the Soviet Union —
hammered away from the sea.
Under cover of the bombard-
ment, lines of landing-craft
swept to the beaches in classic
imitation of the leapfrog land-
ings that took the American
forces across the Pacific in the
Second World War.
While the Western world held
its breath and waited fearfully
for the Third World War to
develop, the Communists sat
back like farmers watching the
harvesting of a bumper crop.
Without firing a shot, they had
Chiang Kai-shek’s forces on the
Tachens proper and their
American backers —in a cleft
stick.
Clearly, the Communists had
the capacity to blockade the
islands. Even with two big
American fleet-carriers con-
stantly on guard, there was no
certainty that the garrison could
maintained. The evacuation
of the civil-population, as well
as the military garrison, by
American and Chinese ships
followed automatically, and the
Communists took, unchallenged
possession of the islands.
The indications along the
Fukien coast today are that this
process will be repeated towards
the end of the first quarter of
this year.
The Communists have built
six fields capable of accommo-
dating jet-planes.
They are all within striking-
distance of the islands of Matsu
and Quemoy, neither of which
can now be considered
defensible.
Quemoy, for instance, lies
within the sweep of the China
coast and could be held only by
securing a beachhead on the
mainland near Amoy. This
would be a major operation, of
which the Nationalists, alone,
are incapable.
The Communists, having
already softened-up world opin-
ion on the question of the off-
shore islands, can be reasonably
confident that the United States
is not prepared to become reck-
lessly involved over islands
which, as the Western world
tends to see them, serve little
purpose other than to provide
an opportunity for Chiang Kai-
shek to thumb his nose at
Peking.
When the Islands Go
Considered in purely military
consequences the loss of these
islands would be of little
moment in the general Asian
picture.
They are useful Nationalist
intelligence-centres and their
radar-installations can give some
slight warning to Taipeh, the
Nationalist capital on Formosa,
of Communist air-activity.
But ruling out the possibility
—which, in fact, no longer
exists —of Chiang Kai-shek
making a successful landing on
the coast of China, they are,
militarily speaking, expendable.
Psychologically, however, they
are vital—and of this Peking is
well aware. Formosa lives on
hope. Talk to the Generalissimo
—or the Gimo, as Chiang is
still called on Formosa —and the
question is not “if” but “when.”
And, miraculously, he has
managed to keep the spirit going
down through the ranks.
I saw a lot of an old friend
in Formosa early last year. Just
after the last war his wife and
son and my wife and daughter
used to share rooms in a
Japanese inn in the mountains
outside Tokyo, and we husbands
used to dash up for alternate
weekends to see them. My
friend was as realistic in those
days as anyone I knew; but in
Taipeh last February he, too,
was talking “when,” and not
“if,” about the return to the
mainland!
But he knows, and everyone
else knows, that when the off-
shore islands have gone, the last
chance of returning to China
will have disappeared for ever.
And what this will do to morale
on Formosa it is not difficult to
guess.
The Overseas Chinese
What it will do to the over-
seas Chinese more than
10,000,000 of them —scattered
through the rest of South-East
Asia is also predictable.
Peking attaches such import-
ance to the overseas Chinese
that the Provisional Consulta-
tive Committee, consisting of 28
members, which was set up in
1949 to put in motion the
People’s Government of China,
included an overseas Chinese
representative among its elite.
His name was Tan Kah Kee,
a Justice of the Peace in Singa-
pore, who, because of his
principal interests and his vast
fortune, used to be known as
the “Pineapple King of Malaya.”
Acknowledged leader of the
Hokkiens, the most numerous of
the Chinese tribal groups in
South-East Asia, Tan, through
his son-in-law, Lee Kong-chian,
probably the richest man in the
area, still holds the reins of
great power in Singapore and
Malaya.
It was largely due to his
influence that Lin Yutang, the
Chinese philosopher and author,
was forced to resign from
Singapore’s Nanyang University,
which, in concept, was to have
been a great seat of non-
Communist culture in South-
East Asia. But Tan Kah Kee
wanted no part of Lin Yutang,
with whom he had quarrelled
years before at Amoy Uni-
versity. Nor did Peking —
which attracts 8000 Chinese
students each year from South-
East Asia —wish to see the estab-
lishment of any rival, anti-
communist university. Tan
spoke, and Lin left.
After the Afro-Asian confer-
ence at Bandoeng last April I
spent a few days in Djakarta.
One day, at a lunch with half-
a-dozen Djakarta Chinese, the
discussion turned, as usual, to
Communism. The fear of these
men was not for the safety of
Formosa, but for what was
happening because of the
Formosa Strait withdrawal —in
Djakarta itself.
“I’ve moved my son from
school to school, trying to keep
one jump ahead of the Com-
munists,” one of the Chinese
lamented. “By the end of the
year there won’t be one anti-
Communist Chinese school left
here.”
Through their internal lines
of communication, their close
“My theory is that prevalent velocity-variations and pressure-fluctuation
in air-mass impede the Woomera rockets."
co-ordination by organisations
such as the World Federation of
Trades Union Liaison Bureau,
which was set up in 1949 to
serve as the Communists’
“general staff” in Asia, through
the overseas Chinese and
through other subverted and in-
filtrated minority groups, and
finally through direct party
links, the Communists have the
initiative in Asia.
They have it not only in
broad outline but in detail. The
objective is the conquest of
Asia, and every cog has its part
in the machine and one cog
turns another.
Peking, Battle-h.q.
The question of Russian
leadership was all satisfactorily
settled as early as November,
1949: the directives come from
Moscow and the Cominform.
Even before the Peking
regime had established itself,
the Cominform journal, “For a
Lasting Peace, for a People’s
Democracy,” was being distri-
buted in a Chinese-language
edition.
Leaving aside occasional soft-
shoe turns by performers like
Comrades Khrushchev and Bul-
ganin, however, Peking is battle-
headquarters for the Far East.
It works like a great Red heart,
pumping the red blood of
revolution into every corner of
Asia.
It was the sdurce of the
techniques and much of the
material aid for the Vietminh
victory in Tongking against the
French; it is there to reinforce
Ho Chi-minh in his demands
that the Geneva Agreement
must be fully implemented, and
that all Vietnam must go to the
polls next July 20 to “unify” the
country.
It is the driving-force behind
the Free Thai movement, which
is breaking down the frontiers
through south-eastern Yunnan
to Laos, and is readying itself
to push through into north-
eastern Siam.
Malayan Dangers
The Malayan Communist
party, its futile campaign of in-
discriminate terror long since
ended, also follows the Peking
line.
No longer does the mass of
the country’s population travel
in terror along lonely jungle
roads, fearful that every turn
may produce a fallen tree and
the murdering crack of machine-
gun bullets. Death these days
from a Communist bullet is
highly discriminate.
The “war” in the countryside
that Mao laid down is not
waged against all; the “peace”
in the cities is.
No more disturbing example
of the effectiveness of this policy
is available than in the orderly,
clean and seemingly law-
abiding Colony of Singapore, to
all intents and purposes the
administrative showpiece of
Asia.
In this city of nearly twelve-
hundred-thousand people, two-
thirds are Chinese. The Kuo-
mintang has withered here with
every Communist success in
China. Communist leaders con-
ceal their party-membership, but
by their acts and deeds daily
proclaim themselves as the van-
guard of the revolution.
The Chinese schools have
turned Red, the unions likewise.
Just about any time you want
to see it, you can find school-
children practising the yangko,
the Communist harvest-dance
that Mao turned into a social
mime, an outlet for the frenzied
emotions of the People’s Courts
when he was calling for —and
getting—the blood of the rich
landlords of China.
In Indonesia, President
Soekarno, making his first
approach towards the Peking
bandwagon, cites the Commun-
ist Administrations of the Soviet
Union and China as examples
of the “progressive” type of
Government best suited to
Indonesia.
From a total membership of
fewer than 5000 in 1948 to the
command of more than
5,000,000 votes in 1955: this is
how the Communist Party of
Indonesia has grown.
It is a grim enough scene, and
we must face the probability, the
certainty, that it will become
worse.
AH South-East Asia
That President Ngo Dinh
Diem has survived so long
against so many hostile elements
in Vietnam is an extraordinary
tribute to his courage and deter-
mination. He had to try to
pump life into a headless body,
and, to an astonishing degree,
he has succeeded.
But the initiative in Vietnam,
as elsewhere in South-East Asia,
remains with the Communists.
They can produce the Geneva
Agreement to prove their rights,
and, anyway, they are on safe
ground.
The West would not intervene
to help the French when the war,
perhaps, could have been saved,
and its signatures to the Geneva
Agreement were the admission
of total defeat. Is it likely, the
Communists reason, that the
West will change its mind and
attempt to retrieve a situation
it deliberately helped to create?
Vietnam will probably sur-
vive beyond the election-date —
July 20. It may even struggle
on for a year or two. The Com-
munists do not spoil their
chances by premature action.
But that they will strike —and
win—in South Vietnam, though
probably by subversion, it is
impossible to doubt.
The sort of chain-reaction this
must produce is frightening to
contemplate. Despite the
success that attended the
election-campaign of young
Prince Morodom Sihanouk—
who abandoned his throne, jazz-
bands and concubines to rally
Cambodia against the Vietminh
in a manner that could have
been a salutary lesson for the
wretched Bao Dai in Vietnam —
his country’s livelihood is too
closely linked with that of
Vietnam to survive with a Com-
munist neighbor on its eastern
border.
The great Mekong River,
which . empties itself into the
South China Sea through South
Vietnam, is navigable by large,
ocean-going ships beyond the
Cambodian capital of Phnom
Penh, and though there are
plans for improving the railway-
link with Bangkok and building
a new port on the south coast,
they are not being pursued with
salvation-winning vigor.
Laos, which hangs like a
basket on the other end of the
Indo-China carrying-pole, is
even less well placed. And in
both countries, Left-wing dis-
sidents are in active liaison with
Ho Chi-minh and the Commun-
ist Vietminh in Hanoi.
Since 1950 the Vietminh have
made no secret of the fact that
they regard the revolution in
Indo-China as embracing Laos
and Cambodia, as well as Viet-
nam, and their continuing con-
trol of subversive and revolu-
tionary activities in these coun-
tries is such that the Pathetlao
(Communist) Government in
the two northern Laotian pro-
vinces, Sam Neua and Phong
Saly, openly seeks direction by
radio from Hanoi.
The highly unpleasant fact
that we in Australia must face
is that one day the whole South-
East Asian fabric may fall apart.
The Communists’ moth-eating
processes have neglected no part
of the area. The collapse will
not affect just one country but
many, and eventually, the Com-
munists anticipate, the lot.
C Continued on page SO)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
CHANGE OF PILOTS
X>RESS farewells to the retiring
A leader of the British Labor
Party (Clement Attlee), and hails
to his successor (Hugh Gaitskell):
Mr. Attlee:
London “Economist”: “His-
torians will be wise to pay closer
attention to the phenomenon of
Clement Attlee than some of his
contemporaries have done.
“It has been usual for Mr.
Attlee’s detractors to portray
him as a meek and colorless
little man, as ‘the sheep in
sheep’s clothing’; in fact, how-
ever, the greatest single contri-
bution that Mr. Attlee made to
British political history was
that, by the strength of his
character, he -seized much
greater power over his Labor
Government of 194.5 than his
party thought it had given him.
YOUTH
AGE
YOUTH
AGE
YOUTH
AGE?
YOUTH
'Lor' Lovaduck!'
London “Daily Express "
SOME GET SO RESPECTABLE
“It has been usual for Mr.
Attlee’s sympathisers to portray
him as Labor’s magnet for the
floating vote, to say that ‘Mr.
Attlee has gone round the
country looking like the sort of
man who might be suspected of
voting for Mr. Attlee’; in fact,
however, in domestic policy
(though not always in external
matters), he has been on what
is called the Left of his party.
His early roots lay beside all
those strange turn-of-the-century
rebels against Edwardian
society, with their exaggerated
moustaches, beards and ideals.
“If Mr. Attlee had been born
in Petrograd, instead of in
Putney, he would quite certainly
have thrown bombs in his
youth. Many of his successes,
and some of his failures, have
been founded on the fact that
nobody has ever quite believed
this.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“There is no doubt that Mr.
Attlee’s inclination has been for
some time to give up the leader-
ship. Few men have shown as
little desire to cling to office.
Yet his career has been remark-
able by any standard. He was
six years a Prime Minister and
Deputy Premier for five years
before that. He has been a
party-leader for longer than any
other man in this century.
During that time his fitness for
the office has occasionally been
disputed but never openly
challenged.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The enigmatic side of his
[Attlee’s] character is illustrated
by the fact that seldom has one
who possessed such authority
over his party had such a talent
for reducing the dramatic to the
humdrum.”
The same: “His [Attlee’s]
chief title to fame is that after
and during many years he did
weld a fissiparous party into a
still-seething but not Centri-
fugal entity. This was a re-
markable achievement for one
who was first pitchforked into
prominence by a fluke —the
Socialist electoral disaster of
1931. But the prominence was
not undeserved. The Major
Attlee who fought in the Dar-
danelles was the political pro-
genitor of the true patriot who
was one of Sir Winston
Churchill’s most loyal, unflinch-
ing and efficient colleagues dur-
ing the Second World War.”
* # *
London “Daily Mail” : “Some*,
one said ‘Mr. Attlee touches
nothing that he does not de-
hydrate.’ It is true. His speeches
sound like the rasp of a dead
leaf across a pavement. Readers
of his memoirs marvelled that
one in the midst of big events
could be so dry-as-dust and
matter-of-fact.
“With such a personality he
was never a ‘future Prime
Minister,’ yet he was six years in
Downing-street.
“It is astonishing. So are other
aspects of his career. When one
sees this diffident, rosy, avun-
cular figure at some public func-
tion one thinks: ‘Good lord!
That’s the man who gave away
India.’
“Or did he do that? Was it
he or the march of events? We
do not mean obvious events, like
the wars. We mean that Mr.
Attlee’s party aroused forces
which, when they came to power,
they could not control.
“For a generation they had
denigrated the Empire. What
Khrushchev is saying now Sir
Stafford Cripps said 20 years ago
—and Mr. Attlee did not
disown it.
“Yet later he was a true and
faithful Deputy Premier to the
brilliant leader who fought for
the survival of the Empire. And
later still, as Prime Minister, he
rearmed Britain though he
was instinctively opposed to arms
and militarism.”
* * *
Mr. Gaitskell:
“London Financial Times ” :
“Ten years ago he [Gaitskell] was
unknown. He first entered the
Flouse in 1945, together with
many other unknown young men,
at the age of 39. Within a year
he was in the Government as
Mr. Shinwell’s assistant at the
Ministry of Fuel and Power,
within two years he had taken
Mr. Shinwell’s place, within five
years he had become Minister
for Economic Affairs and Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer. Now,
after another five years, his own
divided party has elected him its
leader by an impressive majority
and he has become Prime
Minister presumptive.”
The same: “For the country
[Britain], the importance of Mr.
Gaitskell’s succession will lie
largely in his realisation of the
power, in an era of full employ-
ment, of organised labor. There
is a natural tendency for the
Labor party and the trade-unions
to move apart. Mr. Gaitskell,
more than any alternative leader,
may be able to persuade them
to agree on a new and common
policy. He may, in this sense, be
able to put into practice a more
extreme Left-wing programme
than would otherwise have been
possible. In the everyday,'
emotional sense of the word, Mr.
Gaitskell is hardly a Left-wing
man ; in practice, however, his
deep belief in economic equality
and his ability to translate his
aims into accomplished fact may
well cause the next Labor
Government to adopt a radically
redistributive policy.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “He
[Gaitskell] has emerged trium-
phant from the first ballot of the
Parliamentary Labor party with
a clear majority of 47 over the
combined votes of his two oppon-
ents. For Conservatives this de-
cisive vote for Mr. Gaitskell
brings a warning that the Parlia-
mentary Labor party, if the maj-
ority of its members have their
way, will emerge as a stronger
fighting force at the next general
election.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “It is
not the horny-handed sons of
toil who, through a lifetime of
rebellion and protests, receive
the Ministerial plums. Now
the intellectuals, the lawyers, the
career-men have taken over.
“Earlier Socialist Administra-
tions were formed, for the most
part, of men who had made their
own way. Snowden, Clynes,
J. H. Thomas, Shinwell, Arthur
Greenwood were some. Even
Ramsay MacDonald was ‘local
boy makes good.’ And Bevin of
course. That they have had
their day is suggested by the re-
jection of Mr. Morrison and Mr.
Bevan.
“Mr. Gaitskell has had no
first-hand experience of working-
class life. Mr. Attlee was the
same. He missioned in the
East End of London, but was
not brought up there. His in-
terest in the underdog was in-
tellectual and sentimental. So is
Mr.- Gaitskell’s.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “Mr.
Gaitskell must guard against
effacing himself too completely.
The party has been sadly lack-
ing in drive since it returned to
Opposition. This is a defect that
Mr. Gaitskell will be expected to
put right. And as a potential
Prime Minister he will possess
a considerable reserve of author-
ity that, properly used, should
enable him to play a decisive
part in the shaping of policy.”
Indonesia
London “Economist” com-
ment on “two things” demon-
strated by the Indonesian people
at the recent election:
“The growth of the Indo-
nesian Communist party (P.K.1.)
has been as rapid as the most
pessimistic observers have re-
ported, but, on the other hand,
the party is probably not in a
position to demand inclusion in
the country’s first elected
Administration.
“The upshot of this political
paradox is, on the whole, hope-
ful. It is possible that, in the
final analysis, the Masjumi
(Council of Indonesian Muslim
Associations) will move up from
second place to first, displacing
the National party (P.N.1.),
which has consistently main-
tained the lead it gained in the
earliest returns. But neither
party will be strong enough to
form a Government of its own
resources, and the P.N.I. would
find it unprofitable to antagonise
the two religious parties by in-
viting the Communists to join
the coalition.
“There are thus firm grounds
for the opinion recently ex-
pressed in Amsterdam by the
governor of the Bank of Indo-
nesia, Mr. Sjafruddin Prawira-
negara, that there is now a
possibility of an efficient and
workable coalition of the three
biggest non-Communist parties
(including the unexpectedly suc-
cessful breakaway Moslem
group, the Nahdatul Ulama).
“Two other hopeful signs are
the refusal of Parliament to meet
the request of the Opposition
parties that the mandate of the
present Masjumi-led caretaker
Government be revoked; and the
appointment of the efficient and
anti-Communist Colonel Nasu-
tion as chief-of-staff of the Indo-
nesian Army. This almost
amounts to a guarantee of no
direct action by the P.K.1.: it
was Nasution who crushed the
Communist rebellion at Madiun
in 1948.
“In combination, these cir-
cumstances make it possible,
almost for the first time since
.the emergence of the Indonesian
Republic, to feel moderately
optimistic about its future.
Already, since the young Prime
Minister, Dr. Harahap, assumed
office last August, there has been
a marked improvement in his
country’s economic and financial
health and, indeed, in its inter-
national relations with two of
the countries most closely con-
cerned with its welfare —Hol-
land and Australia.
“The chief specific external
dispute in which Indonesia is
involved is the contention over
the sovereignty of West Irian,
or West New Guinea, the last
remaining Dutch - controlled
territory in the area. It is a com-
plicated issue—complicated by
the fact that most of the in-
habitants of West Irian are
neither Indonesian nor Dutch,
nor well able to speak for them-
selves, and complicated also by
the strategic interests of Aus-
tralia, which rules the other half
of the island.
“Talks are about to begin at
The Hague ; but they are not
expected to reach an agreed solu-
tion. The best thing that could
happen—certainly the best thing
for Indonesia—would be to leave
it in limbo for the time being.
Time may well be able to pro-
duce the solution that argument
plainly cannot.”
Elections—Overseas
View
While the British press took a
fairly warm interest in the Aus-
tralian elections and, in the
main, generally applauded the
Menzies victory, chief concern
centred more on the future than
on the actual electoral tussle
itself.
Election-comment ranged
from “it would have been best
for the Australian Labor Party
had its leader, Dr. Evatt, lost
his Parliamentary seat” (London
“Time and Tide”) to “Dr. Evatt
deserves the gratitude of Social-
ists the world over” (Michael
Foot in London “Daily
Herald”). London “Economist”
opined that “the Australians
have made it clear that no
person or party tainted with
Communist sympathies will be
allowed to govern”:
“Mr. Menzies has thus wiped
out his referendum defeat in
1951, when the electorate
rejected the Constitutional
amendment to give him powers
to proscribe Communism.”
The London “Daily Tele-
graph” view was that “by ruth-
lessly exploiting the bitter
differences among his opponents,
most notably the difference
between those allegedly pro-
Communist and those violently
anti - Communist the latter
actually made common cause
with the Government coalition
—Mr. Menzies has reduced Aus-
tralian political life to a
shambles in which he is the only
pillar of strength.”
A fairly common view, how-
ever, was that, while the elec-
tions were well fought and well
won, they were not fought on


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
67 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
"The Miracle
of Lourdes"
The cures at this Catholic shrine
cures of the crippled and
dying by forces unknown to
science have stirred endless
controversy for nearly 100 years.
In January Reader’s Digest,
a Protestant (who lived in this
French town, questioned doctors,
nurses and patients) gives docu-
mented facts about Lourdes and
its miracles.
Then there’s “What your
children need most,” “Super-
aspirins against arthritis,”
“The rich rewards of com-
passion” ... a wealth of stimu-
lating articles in the January
issue of Reader’s Digest. Make
sure of your copy today, only
two shillings, at all newsagents
and bookstalls.
essential issues. Thus the
“Daily Telegraph” continued to
the effect that “Mr. Menzies’s
success in fighting the election
as a personal battle with Dr.
Evatt on the issue of Commun-
ism, without any real effort to
discuss vital issues and policies,
will only be justified if his Gov-
ernment now makes use of its
new three-year mandate to deal
with the country’s pressing
economic problems”:
“Hitherto Mr. Menzies has
lacked a working majority. The
August Budget was a knock-
kneed effort to control consump-
tion, as was the appeal to the
private banks to restrict credit.
“With his new majority, Mr.
Menzies will now have a man-
date to take additional measures
to secure a favorable oversea
trade-balance. Quite possibly,
in the process, Mr. Menzies will
provide the Opposition with
genuine grievances on which it
can fasten. But this will be all
to the good. It is high time
Australian politicians began
arguing about brass tacks rather
than Red scares.”
“Manchester Guardian,” too,
found that “the campaign was
disappointing”:
“What should have been the
main issue, the high costs of
living and of production, got
little notice from either side;
red-herrings were in , good
supply. The truth is that, until
Labor gets a leader (whether Dr.
Evatt in a better temper, or
somebody else) who can keep the
party’s two wings acting in
harmony, Mr. Menzies’s coali-
tion will be hard to shift.”
Turning to what, presumably,
should have been the “vital
issues,” and what are considered
the main problems of the future,
two papers spoke with almost a
common voice. In “New York
Times” Barbara Ward set the
economic risk before Australia
as being, like Britain’s, in “an
upsurge of consumption which
has outstripped the country’s
power and perhaps will to
produce”:
“In 1954 and 1955 people
spent on personal goods—-and
particularly on motor-cars —not
only most of their rising incomes
but half as much again, a
phenomenon made possible by
the extraordinary extension of
instalment-buying in Australia,
which now covers virtually every
item of personal consumption,
even down to stockings,
costume-jewellery and ladies’
handbags.
- “There can be little doubt
that some time in the coming
year strong measures will be
needed to check domestic
demand.”
In a somewhat longer
analysis of the same problem,
London “Financial Times” con-
ceded editorially that “Australia
has, of course, had a run of bad
luck in export-markets”:
“The price of wool, which
normally accounts for about
half of her export-earnings, has
moved against her since the
middle of 1954. Whatever the
Australians had done, they were
bound to experience some diffi-
culty as a result of this adverse
turn in world-markets. It so
happened that the turn occurred
at a time when sales of their
second most important export,
wheat, were sticky, and foreign-
exchange earnings from this
commodity had also fallen off
from the level of previous years.
“But difficulties over exports
do not account for the whole of
the trouble. The balance-of-
payments figures covering the
latest Australian financial year
to June, 1955, show that even if
export-income had remained at
the level of the previous year,
there would still have been an
extremely serious deficit in
1954-55. In fact, Australia’s
foreign earnings over the year
fell by only £A36-million, while
her spending abroad rose by
over £A2CO-million.
“There is no mystery about
the origins of this spending-
spree. The Australian national-
income figures show clearly the
forces inside the economy which
generated the external deficit.
Gross domestic income
increased in money terms by
some 5 per cent. But total per-
sonal expenditure increased by
9 per cent., expenditure on
capital equipment by 15 per cent,
and on industrial and commer-
cial building by 25 per cent.
Meanwhile, purchases of motor-
vehicles for business and private
purposes together rose by 28
per cent.
“Thus the real difficulty in the
past year is that Australia’s own
production has not risen nearly
fast enough to accommodate
these growing claims on the
national resources. Indeed,
when allowance is made for the
fact that prices appear to have
been around 2 per cent, higher
in 1954-55 than in the previous
year, and the population had
increased by another 2 per cent.,
the output of goods and services
per head of population can
hardly have increased much at
all.”
On those foregoing problems
London “Economist” shares the
view with most other British
papers that the Menzies Govern-
ment should come out fighting:
“Now that Mr. Menzies has
won, he should be asked to
reveal his constructive pro-
gramme. The anti-Evatt cam-
paign is over ; but presumably
the anti-inflation campaign
looms ahead and will not be
anything like such easy going.
Before the election Mr.
Menzies could argue that he was
unable to do anything drastic
with a majority of seven —a
credit-squeeze, import-cuts, a
standstill Budget, but none of
them more than palliatives.
There will be no more excuse
for half-measures.”
The Cold War
World War 111, described by
“U.S. News and World Report”
as being “waged more intensely
than ever,” with Russia “win-
ning hands-down”:
“War as waged by the Soviet
Union avoids shooting by the
armed forces of Russia. It is
conducted by infiltration, sub-
version, revolution, diplomacy—
by bluff and bluster —and, on
occasion, through actual war
waged by satellites.
“In this type of war the U.S.
has been on the run for nearly
10 years, and recent events
indicate that the U.S. still is on
the run, unable to cope with
the type of offensive that the
forces of revolution utilise.
“The American people, from
1917 to date, have spent
$BBO,OOO-million and sacrificed
1.5-million dead or wounded in
three wars that they hoped
would ensure a world in which
Americans could live in peace.
Yet, at the moment, the world
is shaped less to American liking
than at any other time in years.
“Communist influence is
breaking out into the Mediter-
ranean area, where Western
power had been predominant.
Russians, setting-up an Embassy
in West Germany, are gaining a
diplomatic toehold within that
country from which they had
been barred. Norway, the
northern anchor of the defence-
system for Western Europe, is
reported to be giving assurances
to the Russians that Norwegian
bases will not be available to
the Western Allies unless Nor-
way herself is attacked.
“In India, visiting Russian
leaders enjoy a tremendous re-
ception. At the same time,
Communists are nibbling at
what remains of Indo-China.
There are growing Soviet over-
tures to Japan. Even Canada
is being pressured to look to her
neighbors across the North Pole
and to be less closely tied to the
U.S.
“In the Far East, World War
111, Russian style, is continuing
to go in a direction much to the
liking of Communists.
“Russia’s technique is to wage
war with ideas, not directly with
guns or atom-bombs or
hydrogen-bombs or guided-
missiles. The push-buttons in
this modern type of war are in
the hands of diplomats and
propagandists, not in the hands
of soldiers.
“Military weapons are there,
too, in abundance - but as a
Minneapolis (U.S.A) “Star”
INTERNATIONAL SALESMAN
warning to those who might
object to Communist methods,
and as supplies for satellites or
revolutionary groups that might
wish to use them for actual
shooting.
“Propaganda in all forms is
accepted as a technique of that
war —and the " propaganda-
campaign is world-wide.
“To spread the Communist
message, the Soviet Union and
her satellites are estimated offi-
cially to be spending more than
$3OOO-million each year. Addi-
tional sums beyond computation
are spent by Communist
organisations throughout the
world. Communist expendi-
tures have been estimated at
$ 150-million a year in France,
more than $4O-million in Italy,
$3O-million in Germany and
$24-million in India.
“It is the ability of Soviet
propagandists to make the world
believe that black is white that
baffles non-Communist nations
and puts them at a strange dis-
advantage in World War HI,
Russian style.
“The facts are these:
“Russia, since 1939, has
extended her dominance over
740-million people and five-
million square-miles in 17
countries. Soviet imperialism
shows a growth without com-
parison in modern history.
“Nations of the West, in the
same period, have given up con-
trol over 693-million people,
and six-million square-miles of
territory in 23 countries. Never
has history shown such a
record of voluntary action to
free colonies.
“Yet Russia, the master-
imperialist among nations, is
making vast gains among one-
time colonial countries by con-
vincing them that the Western
nations are the arch-imperialists.
“All Russian propaganda, so
powerful in World War 111 as
Russians wage it, is based upon
the premise that people can be
convinced that peace is war, that
war is peace, that black is white
and white is black. Words,
more than guns, are Soviet
weapons.
“The Nazi technique of ‘the
big lie’ has been perfected by the
Communists. An untruth is
repeated so often that eventually
many people come to believe it.”
In what is almost an answer
to the foregoing comment,
Hugh B. Lester, a retired
brigadier-general of the U.S.
Army, suggests in a letter to
New York “Herald Tribune”
that “knowledge of the failure
of the ‘containment’ policy is
finally filtering through to the
[U.S.] public”:
“We [the U.S.] have for a
long time been offering and
supplying arms to many coun-
tries —large and small, demo-
cratic and totalitarian —any, in
fact, that would join with us or
our allies in the ‘cold war’
against the Soviet bloc. We
even offered arms to Egypt
under these terms. All
obviously in pursuance of the
‘containment’ policy. India
protested vigorously- over the
arms supplied to Pakistan, as
did Israel over those to Irak.
“Why, then, should anyone be
surprised that Czechoslovakia,
given the opportunity, should
join the arms-‘peddling’ busi-
ness ; or doubt she would be
given that opportunity eventu-
ally? What informed person
really expects the Russians to
agree to German unification,
with the whole incorporated
into Nato?
“The ‘containment’ policy
makes at least three assumptions
which seem to be fundamentally
erroneous. First, it assumes
that the difficulties plaguing the
world arise from Communism
instead of Communism arising
from these difficulties: poverty,
ignorance and bigotry.
“Second, it assumes that the
Soviet challenge is primarily a
military one. Probably it can
be shown that some nations
have a vested interest in this
assumption the ‘cold war’
agitators—and if there were no
Communists they would have to
invent some. It is also probably
true that some really believe
that naked, brute force is con-
trolling in the affairs of men—
the politic real school. If this
were valid the ‘Communist
baby’ would have been'
destroyed, as proposed by Mr.
Churchill, ‘in its crib’ at the end
of World War I.
“Third, it assumes that all
nations outside the Soviet bloc
have the same causes for fear
of, and equal reasons for oppos-
ing, Communism —when, in fact,
Pakistan fears India, Korea
fears Japan, Israel fears Egypt,
France fears Germany, Greece
now fears Turkey, yes, and
nationalism fears colonialism
even more than any of them
fears Communism per se.
“Nato, Seato, Anzus, et al,
had they been in existence,
might, and probably would,
have either delayed or pre-
vented World War 11, but they
are almost certain to fail to con-
tain Communism now. Two-
thirds to three-fourths of the
people of the world want and
demand adequate food, shelter,
clothing and education. And
they want these now. U.N.
technical assistance, Point IV,
Unicef and Unesco make better
vessels for achieving these pur-
poses than do bombs and air-
planes, naval craft and military
alliances.
“For these reasons, I believe,
the sooner the foreign-policy
makers of this country [U.S.A.]
not only recognise ‘containment’
for what it really is—the diplo-
matic counterpart of the
Maginot Line —but also take
positive steps inside the U.N. to
develop a stable economic and
political world as suggested
here, the better for the peace
and security of all.”
"La Prensa"
The Buenos Aires newspaper
“La Prensa” was confiscated by
Argentine’s dictator, Perdn, on
March 20, 1951, and turned
over to his General Confedera-
tion of Labor. Peron’s short-
lived successor, General Lonardi,
who refused to restore the paper
to its owner and to independ-
ence, was roundly criticised —by
overseas papers, anyway—for
what was taken as a demonstra-
tion of bad faith by the new
Government.
General Aramburu, Lonardi’s
successor, who has done what is
commonly applauded as the de-
cent and democratic thing by re-
storing the paper to its original
publisher and editor, Dr.
Alberto Gainza Paz —living in
exile since Peron ousted him and
took over the paper —has thus
given what New York “Herald
Tribune” describes as “the best
possible proof of the new Argen-
tine Government’s intent to con-
duct itself democratically and in
the nation’s interests.”
Of “La Prensa” itself, “New
York Times” comments that it
“was not just an ordinary news-
paper” :
“It was an institution. In
quality it ranked with the
great newspapers of the world.
In politics it was independent,
and it played a great role in the
social and charitable life of
Buenos Aires. It stood for
freedom in a country that had
become a tyranny under Juan
Perdn.”
Freedom of the press being
one of the main issues involved,
the return of “La Prensa” was,
as “New York Times” adds, “a
red-letter day for the jounalistic
world”:
“A great independent news-
paper returns to circulation
under its rightful owners and
with its loyal staff that refused
to work for Perdn’s stooges.”
To which London “Daily
Telegraph” added: “All too
rarely does freedom recover any-
thing snatched from her by
tyranny. But here at least she
has resumed her own.”
K. P. Thompson (British Con-
servative M.P.) : “I think we
should let the Russians come [to
Great Britain] next year. We
could show them a busy, pros-
perous country, united in the
pursuit of peace, but hating war
only less than Communism.”


and it’s an open-betting race, and
they’re laying fives this Piper
Boy. I tell them at that it’s a
give-away and to prove it I flash
twenty-quid to a hundred in the
bookie’s face; and the boys
follow-up.
So we’re back in the stand and
they’re coming on to the track,
and I sight Barbara. They
probably only got there in time
to see the big run, and I try to
think of some way to see her
after the race. With the twenty
smackers on, I’m hoping I’ll be
able to say “Well, the Piper won
well,” or something like that.
And they’re doing their prelim.
There’s no nag in this looking
like a crab ; they’re all trained up
to the minute. Sleek, they look ;
and the horses have got the look
they know they’re a grade up
on the mokes ran before them.
Things start to tense-up. Same
as before any other big sporting
do. But here you’ve got the
smoke under the lights and the
cool night air as well as the
horses and their drivers.
The starter’s whistle’s gone
and they’re lined at the tapes.
Piper Boy’s on .the pole-line off
scratch and some of them are
giving him 48-yards. And your
stomach starts to run around,
faster than some of the nags, I
reckon; and you wonder if it’d
run as fast as this if it wasn’t
being chased by whisky. But
they’re ready to jump now. And
you can hear Fred or Chicka
or someone saying “Let ’em go,
y’ mug!” and then one of them
puts in my ear “I hope he gets
there for us.” -
A little gong, a murmur from
the crowd and they’re off. The
black horse slips to the front. I
rub the hands and say to myself
“Come on, Piper!” because
honest I always did like this
horse. Kind, he was, but full of
spirit; and you always knew
when you had him. They’re
down past you the first time
and a bay name of Hebron heads
the black and Meredith eases
him in behind on the fence.
This way they race for two
more laps; just small moves at
the back of the bunch. Meredith
sits on the black and the goggles
over his eyes make him look
like a pilot you see in the movies
just about to press the trigger
on the enemy-plane. And that’s
the way it is with Meredith;
just about to make his move at
the bell.
They start to move from the
back, and Meredith’s manoeu-
vring for a run. He gets it and
the crowd’s screaming. Along
the Leger straight and the black’s
in front with challenges coming
hot and strong. He gets to work
on the black and one of the
hangers-on is screaming “He
won’t see it out now. He went
too soon.”
And that’s the .way it works
out. One of the backmarkers
ranges up to him in the straight
and they fight it out; but the
bookmarker’s a bit solid and he
nuts the black. And the roaring
stops. When they come back to
weigh-in, the black’s tired as
hell. His sides are going in and
out like an overworked bellows.
And the pair with me go silent
as if they were at a funeral.
I don’t know what it was to
this day, but something got me.
Maybe it was the drink working
in me; maybe the pair of
morons around me. After all I
spruiked like a know-all and put
them on a loser when they were
already doing their dough.
Maybe it was even seeing the
horse the way he was: real
worn-out and wet and dragging
his legs slow. .
T>UT it happened and that’s all
I know: I raced to the front
of the stand and I shouted at
him. You know the way they
shout.
“You couldn’t drive bloody
pigs!” I shout. And I let him
have it, no punches pulled.
“You moved too bloody soon,”
I shout at him—and probably
worse than that; I just can’t
remember. And —I don’t know
what it was made me shout at
him like that. Not the twenty-
quid, I know; I’m not one of
them lousy losers.
A lot of people look, because
it’s a big race and it sounds bad.
But they’d of just passed me off
as another drunk done his dough.
What got me was the way Mere-
dith looks up at me; the way
they got a right to look at a
bloke like that, I reckon. Where
the drivers weigh-in at the trots
they’re close to the people and
they sit in the gigs for a while
till the boss-steward says “Dis-
mount.” And that’s the way it
was: Meredith there looking up
with a grin, and he recognised
me, I know.
Well, that’s cooked the goose
far as that’s concerned; and
worse than that, I swing round
and there’s Barbara, her big
blue eyes all over me, right
through me. And I walk up the
back of the stand and down the
ramp.
The boys have blown. Never
seen them again, which is maybe
a good thing. Down the ramp
I walk, out into the crowd, and
I feel the way you do first time
you back-lip your Mum, only
worse. Stomach sick, brain
sicker. That’s the way it was.
Over towards the ring I walk
and I’m not sure who I am, then
I remember and I wish I hadn’t.
And it’s like this, and I even con-
sider that electric train, I think.
Then this little runt taps me
on the shoulder, and he’s blow-
ing as if he’s just run one of
those marathons, “You’re old
Jack Broughton’s son, ain’t y’?
Young Johnny?”
“That’s me,” I sort of stutter
back at him." The way I feel I
wonder who’d be wanting to talk
to a bum like me, let alone the
way this little bloke’s eyes are
popping as if he’s just found a
lost explorer or something like
that.
He steers me over out of the
crowd and on the way I get <■
sort of a blurry memory of his
face. “Yair, y’ should remember
me,” he says. “ ’Arry ’lggins.
Used to knock about with the
trotters for years. Crossed your
tracks a few times. A great
’orseman your old man. Would
’a’ been one of our best if he got
the breaks.”
And I’m remembering this
little puff-face and how I’d often
heard the men and the old
man, too —around the tracks say-
ing what a good judge he was.
And he’s making all he’s saying
now sound genuine; and it’s
good; and I’m starting to feel
better already, because I tell you,
I’ve still got a lot of respect for
the old man.
And about the other. Well,
it’s just as I say to myself at the
time —“It serves you right!”
Their methods of destruction
are confined neither by morality
nor legality. Bulganin’s smile
here, Khrushchev’s denuncia-
tion of colonialism there,
economic aid and promises of
aid, Marx and Mao and murder,
revolution and counter-
revolution, bombs and ballet.
There is a line and a policy to
suit every country and every
situation. Those who oppose
are fought: those who co-
operate cuddled ; and it doesn’t
pay to be cuddled by a bear.
Fuel for the Fires
We can propagandise as much
as we like about Communist
colonialism in Estonia, Latvia
and Lithuania and other places
the Asian has never heard of:
we might as well decry the Man
in the Moon.
We may talk till the cows
come home about Tibet: it is
as remote from the average
Asian town and average Asian
knowledge as it is from Alice
Springs.
But when the Communist
talks about capitalism and
imperialism and colonialism he
translates them into immediate
and understandable terms. He
points to the tuan besar and his
fat belly and his fine motor-car
and everybody knows what he
means.
And Communism, it is clear,
must be a very good thing
indeed if it means that the tuan
besar goes and everybody gets
his belly and his motor-car. And
if it is not the belly and the car
the Communists are offering, at
least it seems so, and until the
day of the great awakening,
which is always too late, the
rabble-rousing cry, “Down with
the tuan besar,” is a good
alternative.
The Communists believe that
a revolution. cannot be success-
ful unless blood is spilt, and
through their People’s Courts in
China and North Vietnam they
have demonstrated very effec-
tively that mobs can be moved
and captured by its promise and
sight.
I was discussing this one day
in Rangoon with Ba Maw, the
war-time Burmese collaborator,
who, in recent years, has been
flirting backstage with the
Communists.
“Where the Americans make
their error in trying to fight the
Communists is in believing they
can buy every man in Asia with
a loaf of bread,” he said. “You
offer the Burmese their choice
between a good slogan like
‘Down with Colonialism’ or
‘Liberty, Equality and Fratern-
ity’ and a loaf of bread and I’ll
bet you they’ll take the slogan
every time.”
In terms of bread, what the
West, in general, and the
United States, in particular,
have given to Asia since the war
dwarfs all Communist contri-
butions. But the slogans have
all come from the Communists,
and, however inedible they may
be, they have been fuel for the
fires of the Asian revolution.
The Clear Warning
The Japanese were the match
that set a light to every country
where Western influence had
hitherto been predominant; the
Communists provided the back-
log—and the fan.
' They turned China and Indo-
China into bonfires. They have
a brisk blaze in Indonesia.
They’re not just poking at
charred embers in Malaya ; and
they have given clear warning
of the shape of things to come
in Siam.
The fire failed to catch in
Burma, India, Pakistan and
Ceylon, and, with their unfail-
ing flexibility, the Communists
turned to other methods. That
is why Khrushchev and Bul-
ganin suddenly made the
remarkable discovery that they
are really Asians.
And, though we may legiti-
mately credit both Nehru in
India and U Nu in Burma with
considerable awareness of the
Communist potentialities, the
fact remains that Communism in
these countries has suddenly
achieved a new respectability
and the cry, “Down with
Colonialism,” though meaning-
less in completely free Burma
and of no more significance
than unhappy Goa in India, is
still a rabble-rousing slogan
whose support lends credence to
the views of old Ba Maw.
With Nehru escorting him
like a dowager with her
debutante daughter, a coy Chou
En-lai made his bow to Asia
and Africa at the Bandoeng
conference. It is a fair bet that
if the Asian and African coun-
tries get together for another
meeting our friends the Turks,
the Irakis, the Pakistanis, the
Siamese and the Filipinos—to
name some of the most genuine
of the anti-Communist • bloc at
the last meeting—will this time
find themselves hemmed-in by
Uncles Nikita and Nikolai on
one side and a much less bash-
ful Chou on the other.
They have Asia burning
merrily, and we in Australia
would be doing ourselves the
most monumental disservice if
we ignored the sparks that
are carried southwards on the
breeze.
The Slorp of Dog Collaz
Dan
By Mary
Kent Hughes
NO, mate, he wasn’t a par-
son. He made dog-col-
lars for a living. It was
like this, see. Dan and
I had been cobbers since we were
kids on the Peninsula. When
we came home we weren’t too
keen on the city life after a
while, so we went bush. We did
the sheds in the Riverina off and
on cook’s offsider, rouseabout,
whatever was offering.
We finished up mining up
Tennant Creek way until I
broke me leg and wasn’t good
for the heavy work any more
it being about three-inches
shorter than the other one, see.
So we came down to Melbourne,
but it was just like 1919 all over
again. Footpaths too hard on
the feet, too many people about
pushing and shoving. Pubs
crowded after work, a bloke
couldn’t hardly get a drink with-
out being drawn into a brawl.
“Gawd I’ve had this” says
Dan one’ day “Let’s ’ get a
shack in the bush, near enough
to get down to the city for a
race-meeting and that. Time we
drew a service-pension, anyhow ”
cct, „ T '
Im easy,” I says. “The
beer’s good’ anywhere these
ays '
So we came up here and found
an old miner’s hut on the river-
bank. We fixed her up and
made her a bit comfortable;
then Dan started getting restless.
I could see it coming on him.
Fidgety he W3,s, like '& dog thcit
scents a possum but doesn’t
know what part of the roof to
start barking at.
“It’s no life for an active
man,” he says. “It’s a gentle-
man’s existence. What do we
do? Go down and collect the
pension, buy a bit of stuff and
do a bit of cooking. Nothing
Wrong with the place ; suppose
they’d call it a beauty-spot. But
a man’s just going to seed."
It was then he got the inspire-
tion. The life suited me well
enough; I was doing a bit of
prospecting and making beer-
money at it. And we lived well
on the two pensions, pooling
them. But Dan always was a
progressive kind of bloke. His
eyes sort of twinkled and he had
a grin on him as he called the
dog over. I could see he’d been
hit with a big idea.
“Here, Magpie,” he says—the
mong was black and white —
“let’s take a geek at that collar
1 mad e you, boy.”
He took °ff the collar and
turned it all ways.
“Fair dinkum, it’s not a bad
i ob ” he sa ys.
And it was a real smart col-
* ar ’ w hh bits of brass bashed
into and all. And then he
outs with the idea.
“Til make a few more and
take em *° one of the shops
next d a y r m in town,” he says,
And then he can t start quick
f aough ‘ Dlgs 5> ut J? ls ° d cut-
throat razor and a bit ot leather
and gets to work.
W ELL, that’s how the industry
ij started. Twice a week he
catches the bus down to Mel-
bourne to sell his collars and
soon hfi’s evpn spndimr thpm
S-State And S one day
w hen he’s in town and I’m sit-
ting on a log peeling some spuds
gQ just C3.light
along walks a sheila. Middle-
aged and plumpish, but smart as
paint. ’
“Is this where Mr. Mortimer
lives?” she says, with a real
pleasant smile. “I’m a client
of his from Adelaide, and while
I’m in Melbourne I thought I’d
just drop in and see how these
beautiful collars are made.”
Well, I’m not giving away any
of Dan’s trade-secrets, but I
brings her in and stokes up the
fire and makes her a cup of tea
to fill in the time, like, till Dan
gets home.
She tells me she has one of
these gift-shops in Adelaide, and
Dan’s collars are her most pop-
ular line. Soon we see him
coming up the track in his town-
clothes, with Magpie at his heels
barking all round him. The
mong had been sitting at the
bus-stop most of the day.
Well, the lady stayed to tea
with us and Dan was in great
form. He showed her all his
stock and actually made a collar
for her so she’d see how he put
in the brass studs. I got a bit
worried about that because it
doesn’t do to tell all you know,
and I had a nasty feeling she
might be picking his brains for
her own ends, as it were.
But I needn’t have panicked.
Her little fat hands were not the
sort for manual work, with their
long puce nails.
Well, the three of us had a
real enjoyable evening until it
came time for Dan to put her
on the late Melbourne bus.
After that, he took to shaving
on the days he didn’t go to Mel-
bourne. Then he gets an order
from her, and a letter inviting
him to look over her shop if he
happens to be in Adelaide any
time.
“No time like the present,”
says Dan ; and he’s off on the
midday-bus.
TPHAT’S the last I see of him.
A But I get a letter, see? Here
it is:
Dear Mike,
I’m stopping in Adelaide.
I’d like you to come and live
with us, but you know what
women are, about the booze and
that. The best thing you can
do is sell the old shack (you can
keep my share) and get yourself
a job as a hotel-useful. That
way, you’d get plenty to eat and
drink and always have someone
to talk to, so you won’t be
lonely.
Good luck, see you again.
Your cobber, Dan.
P.S. You might put Magpie on
the train.
So here I am... Thanks, mate.
I don’t mind if I do.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited ,
fire, marine and accident insurances
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors! THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A . G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P. BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8881. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney
Branches in all States .
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established XBus m Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
, ( England )
NJS.W. Branch:
t Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of “The Song of a Prune.”
—6239.
Words of the song “On the
Wallaby Track,” beginning:
Roll up your bundle and make a neat
swag,
Collar hold of your billycan and your old
tuekerbag,
It’s no disgrace to be seen with your swag
. on your back
While searching for work on the wallaby
track.
—6240.
Words of song “Death of Lowry,”
of which only the following frag-
ments are known:
.... bathed in his own gore,
.... and Lowry was no more.
—6241.
Words of song “Tambaroora
Gold,” beginning:
Oh, I’ve travelled for experience
And oft-times have been sold,
But you don’t get home on Charlie
For his Tambaroora gold.
—6242.
Information Sought
What different stages of political
control has West Germany undergone
since 1945?
After the collapse of Hitler’s Reich
(May 5, 1945) West Germany was
ruled by Allied Military Governors
till 1949, when they were superseded
by High Commissioners representa-
tive of Britain, France and the U.S.
On May 5, 1955, the three High
Commissioners signed a proclama-
tion ending the occupation statute,
and West Germany became an
independent sovereign State.
* * * #
Was Henry Lawson ever assigned
by the editor of The Bulletin to
carry his swag from Sydney to
Hungerford ? If so, details ?
It would be difficult to say whether
Lawson was ever assigned to carry
his swag anywhere by the editor of
The Bulletin (Archibald). It is
likely, however, that he chose to go
to Bourke and had his fare paid by
The Bulletin. For some time he
worked round Bourke as a painter;
then, with Jim Grahame and a few
others, he set out looking for work.
Grahame’s account of the months he
spent with Lawson was published in
the Feb. 19 issue of The Bulletin,
1925. According to this, they went
first to Toorale station, where they
worked as rouseab'outs during the
shearing. When that cut-out, they
went to Goonery, then Gumbalie,
and finally struck the road to
Hungerford. Still carrying their
swags, they returned to Bourke
broke. Lawson eventually returned
to Sydney by rail, travelling on a
drover’s pass. It is of interest to
note that Grahame categorically
states that Lawspn never shore a
sheep in his life. Lawson would
have been about 24 or 25 at the
time.
* * * •
Some information on the deriva-
tion of “Ironbark” in “Banjo”
Paterson’s “Tne Man from Iron-
bark” ?
From Sydney May’s Story of
W altzing Matilda: “Paterson’s
humorous poem ‘The Man from
Ironbark’ seems to deal with a vague
place far out to the west and of no
definite location. The name Iron-
bark occurs in many localities. There
is a mining-company operating at
Bendigo in Victoria, the Ironbark
South Gold Mining Co., N.L.; Stuart
Town on the Sydney-Bourke railway,
236 miles west of Sydney, was once
known as Ironbark (T. A. Coghlan’s
Picturesque New South Wales). Then
there is an Ironbark Creek and an
Ironbark station, 14 miles north-east
of Barraba on the Bundarra-road.
Originally settled by William Spencer,
one of the pioneering brothers,
William and John Spencer, it was at
first a very large holding, but has
been subdivided. Ironbark station
is now operated by the Ironbark
Pastoral Company, manager Mr.
W. S. Spencer. Another Ironbark
pastoral-holding is in the Lachlan
district, near Young. Near Forbes
there was an Ironbarks Hotel kept
by a Mr. B. Harris. But one’s imagina-
tion tempts one to think of some
little place right away from settle-
ment, from where such a bushman
could come to visit a city and would
later retail his experiences to his
fellow-stockmen. So we could locate
it at Ironbark, one of the mail-
changes on Cobb and Co.’s mail-
route, from Narrabn to Moree, where
there was a little country inn, now
all gone. Doubtless in the bar of
this inn we could imagine this
bearded stockman relating his dire
experiences.”
* * * *
What are some of the lowest
innings-totals in Test-cricket ?
The lowest Test innings-total is 26,
made by N.Z. in the second innings
of the second Test against England
in Auckland in March, 1955. In
England-Australia Tests, Australia’s
36 at Birmingham in 1902 is the
lowest total; Australia was also out
for 42 in Sydney (1887-88) and 44
at The Oval (in 1896). England’s
lowest is 45, in Sydney in 1887-88
(not the Test in which Australia made
42). Of low scores in other Test-
series, N.Z. was out for 42 against
Australia in Wellington in 1946, and
South Africa made 30 against Eng-
land at Port Elizabeth in 1895-96
and the same score, also against
England, at Birmingham in 1924;
again against England, 35 at Cape
Town in 1898-99. As a record low
aggregate for two innings of the one
Test, South Africa made 36 and 45
against Australia in Melbourne in
1931-32.
* * * *
Some information on the wood
known as blush-tulip oak?
The blush-tulip oak ( Tarrietia
actinophylla ; Bailey; Sterculiacece ) is
also known as the booyong, stave-
wood, ironwood and blackjack. It
is a pink- to brownish-colored,
moderately open-textured, straight-
grained, tough, strong wood, with
rather pronounced rays. The sap-
wood, pale in color, is liable to
destruction by the powder-post borer
(Lyctus ) and fungal-stains during
seasoning. Used for general
building-purposes, bent-work for
chairs, cabinet-work, staves, axe- and
tool-handles and plywood, the timber
is suspect when exposed to the
weather or in damp atmospheres. It
occurs as a large tree, often with
broad and prominent buttresses, in
the brush-forests of northern N.S.W.
and Queensland.
* * * *
What were the causes of the Labor
victory in (1) the 1943, (2) the 1946
Federal elections? (3) Number of
seats held by Labor after those two
elections ?
(1) Victory was largely a product
of Labor’s campaigning on the
“Brisbane Line” lie and the insinua-
tion that the previous non-Labor
Governments had been “defeatist in
outlook and preparation”; it also
claimed, in effect, that the war then
was as good as won, and that victory
had only been possible under a Labor
Government. The Opposition parties,
too, were weak and divided, at vari-
ance among themselves. (2) Prob-
ably mainly because, as Labor had
been in office during the winning of
the war, the people decided to give
it the chance to “win the peace.” As
The Bulletin said at the time
(B. 2/10/’46): “In other countries
it is an accepted fact that it takes at
least two elections to pull down a
Ministry with two-thirds of the seats
in the Chamber in which Ministries
are made and unmade. So it is
nothing to the discredit of Mr.
Menzies that he failed to encompass
the defeat of the Ministry thus cir-
cumstanced at one effort.” (At his
second attempt, of course, on Dec.
10, 1949, Mr. Menzies did “pull
down” the Chifley Ministry.) (3) At
the 1943 elections, Labor won 49,
seats, having gained 14 and lost one.
The U.A.P.-U.C.P. Opposition held
23 seats. After 1946, Labor held 43
seats, and the Opposition parties 29
(including two Independents).
* * * *
Some information on the mara-
thon course for this year’s Olympic
Games in Melbourne?
Commencing and finishing at the
main-stadium, the Melbourne
marathon-route goes by way of St.
Kilda-road and Dandenong-road to
East Oakleigh, 13 miles; the runners
will return over the same route. The
course is entirely bitumen-road
through a built-up area. Some fairly
steep climbs—the highest point on
the course is 280 ft. above the lowest
—front the runners on the outward
run; but it’s mostly downgrade on
the run home. The course is con-
sidered to be about mid-way in
gradients between the 1948 London
and 1952 Helsinki courses. Signs
posted at five-kilometre intervals will
enlighten runners on their progress;
a bright line painted along the road
will ensure that competitors follow
the right track. The course will be
carefully patrolled during the race,
and nine check-points, including the
one at half-way, will be maintained.
Feeding-stations will be connected by
two-way radio and telephone with
the main stadium, the central control
for the race. As the runners pass
the various check-points, their times
will be radioed to the main stadium
control-room and displayed on an
arena progress-board: main-stadium
spectators will thus have an accurate
record of the race from start to finish.
Brief Answers
Noorumboon: A deck-tennis-court
is 14ft. by 22ft R.F.F.: (1) Under
Commonwealth Monetary Regula-
tions permission must be obtained to
send gold coins out of Australia. You
would need to apply to the Com-
monwealth Bank. (2) There are many
reputable dealers; write to Mr. J.
Hunt-Deacon, Secretary, The Numis-
matic Society of South Australia,
Adelaide Museum, Adelaide. How-
ever, English gold is not very popu-
lar in the U.S.A. and can be pur-
chased fairly cheaply from dealers.
W.V.M.: Write Department of
National Development, Canberra....
W.J.P.: The article was titled “Poet
Turned Sadist” and was written by
Leo Kelly. It appeared in the Sydney
“Sun,” September 27, 1954 J.S.:
Field-Marshal Sir Thomas Blarney,
Australia’s war-time Commander-in-
Chief of the Armed Forces, died in
Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital on
May 27, 1951... .A.McK.: The
water-level in the radiator should be
approximately 2in. from the top of
the filler-neck. If possible, use rain-
water when refilling, as the use of
hard water can result in a deposit on
the inner side of the cooling-surfaces,
reducing the radiator’s efficiency....
S.K.E.: In brief, since compulsory-
voting, in 1925 the Bruce-Page Gov-
ernment was returned convincingly to
office, and won again in 1928, when
Labor made substantial gains; in
1929 Labor was swept into office;
in 1931 and in 1934 the United
Australia party and the Country
party routed Labor; in 1937 and
1940 Labor made gains, without
winning office; in 1943 Labor swept
the polls and was returned in 1946;
and in 1949, 1951, 1954 and 1955
the Lib'eral-Country party has routed
Labor R.J.: Write the Linnean
Society of N.S.W., Science House,
Gloucester-street and Essex-street,
Sydney E.J.S.: (1) The Royal Mint
pays for gold on the standard con-
tents. (2) The price at Dec. 14 was
£l4 6s. s£d. per ounce. (This is
gross-price, and lodgments are sub-
ject to treatment- and assay-charge.)
(3) Yes; standard gold is .9166 fine.
A.P.: Air-travellers coming into
Australia from New Zealand do not
have to be vaccinated against small-
pox R.J.: Aids to Bacteriology,
by H. W. Scott-Wilson —19s. 9d.
(post. 7d.); Duke’s Bacteria in Rela-
tion to Nursing —33s. (post, lid.);
Bacteriology, Bryan and Bryan—
19s. 6d. (post. lid.). Three good
books on the fundamentals of the
subject L.H.H.: The Cuban-pine
\Pinus caribcea) should be suitable
as a softwood for the area referred
to. However, no definite recom-
mendations can be made without in-
formation as to the nature of the
soil, drainage, aspect, elevation, etc.
Other species worth noting are the
hoop-pine (. Araucaria cunninghamif),
bunyah-pine (. Araucaria bidwilli),
kauri-pine ( Agathis robusta ) and
Mexican-pine ( Pinus patula >. In
view of the importance of soil-
conditions, best to contact the
Queensland Forestry Department,
Brisbane.. . .M.E.S.: From “Over
the Ranges,” by “Banjo” Paterson.
D.J.H.: The U.S. gold-dollar,
according to condition, has a collec-
tors’ value of 30s. to £2; gold value
is about 17s. 6d. The three-cents
piece is worth 3s. 6d H.K.L.:
There is a legend that in the early
18th century a London innkeeper put
a small slotted-box on each table
with a sign “To Insure Promptness,”
and that the word “tip” was
formed from the initial-letters of the
sign K.E.E.: Burrungurroolong is
an aboriginal word meaning “plenty
of water” N.V.A.: Britain last
won the Ryder Cup for golf in 1933
at Southport, England P.J.8.:
Unicef, the United Nations Inter-
national Children’s Emergency Fund,
was established by the General
Assembly on Dec. 11, 1946, to bring
aid to child-victims of war and for
child-health purposes generally. In
Dec., 1950, the Assembly expanded
the terms of reference of Unicef to
include long-range needs of children,
“Want me to see a lawyer? We may be able to get him
on an assault-and-battery charge
particularly in underdeveloped coun-
tries. In Oct., 1953, Unicef was
extended by the Assembly without
time-limit, and “International” and
“Emergency” were dropped from its
title. The fund is now helping with
child-care programmes in 75 countries
and territories of Asia, Africa,
Europe, Latin-America and the
Eastern Mediterranean area 8.5.:
Yes, Will Ogilvie’s “Solitude” is in-
cluded in Australian Bush Ballads,
edited by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing E.R.: There was no
Rhodes Scholar award in N.S.W. in
1950 C.0’8.: The area of the
Vatican is 109 acres.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/12/'55)
Under the Single cycle, most of the continent should
experience a year of good rainfall, although in most cases
autumn rains are likely to be patchy and below average.
Queensland should receive heavy rains during January,
but becoming patchy from February onwards, with good
general rains at the close of April.
Good falls may occur on the coast and tablelands and
part of the western division of N.S.W. during January, but
the remainder of the State poor, though with general
rains commencing in June.
General rains should commence in Victoria during
May, and the same is applicable to South Australia, although
the latter State may receive good falls in the pastoral dis-
tricts during January.
Apart from some good rains in the Kimberleys during
January, Western Australia confined to poor rainfall.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
N.M.J.: Sorry, but we will not be
circulating that ode among the elec-
tors of Ballarat, or anywhere else, for
that matter T.D.: Well, seeing
that it was so neatly typed within a
map of Australia it probably deserves
some space:
Australia—lovely land of wealth and
beauty rare;
With mountains high—rivers strong and
desert bare.
Sheep and cattle grazing gum-trees
straight and tall;
Golden radiant sunshine showering on all!
Animals so strangely weird—birds of
plumage bright;
The Southern Gross a-shining through
the night.
Untold riches in the earth —beauty’s
wealth above;
So here’s a toast—-Australia, the land we
love!
L.M.G.: A hundred other verses
like “Annual Event” hit us at this
time of the year L.F.: Room for
three stanzas of “Weather Report”:
Rising rivers, boggy roads,
Beetles, insects, frogs and toads.
Going places you won’t get—
Pleasures of a Queensland Wet.
Cyclone warnings, cars all stuck.
“Swim to safety? Try your luck.”
Think it may get deeper yet
For it is a Queensland Wet.
No potatoes, milk bogged down,
Water running through the town.
Why complain, you must not fret;
It’s just another Queensland Wet.
.... L.M.: “Spring is here like the
sigh of a rumoring breath”—well,
it was, three or four months back.
. ...D.R.: Girl who wanted ‘‘her
own man to wash-up the dishes”
now interviewing applicants in the
basket... .J.1.H.: Thanks, any rate,
for the seasonal greetings R.8.C.:
We afe inclined to agree with you:—
It’s axiomatic that no one can
Prevent an old drunk Irishman
From brooding on a fancied shame.
J.R.: Could not resist your
grumble against “The Grumble
Brigade”:
They grumble about politics, they grumble
about the trade;
They swear at everything, they are the
Grumble Brigade.
They sling off at the Commos, they spit
at democrats;
They blaspheme all the country and
moan about the rats.
They criticise the barmaid and run down
bottled beer,
And grumble about the service so everyone
else can hear.
They scream reform at the Government,
they don’t like Christmas-cake;
They sack their Secretary—all because
of a mistake.
They nag at their wives’ whims and
growl when the kids want cash,
And never give in to a salesman because
“the stuff he’s selling’s hash.”
They curse the coolness of the weather
and the absence of any shade,
And comply with all' the principles and
laws of the Grumble Brigade.
J.W.B.: “How awkward it is to
be a sardine.” How true P.F.:
Quite promising for 17, keep on
J.K.S.: Now making its way to its
home-port 1.P.: ‘'Why should I
think that I could ever write?*’
Why? R.J.: We flee whenever
we sight a poem dealing with
“Philosophy’s riddle -me - ree”
M.W.: “Thud-thud, through the
tea-tree and bottlebrush” it is travel-
ling back to the King River
A.E.P.: We regret that we must
decline your kind invitation to “pull
the self-starter and take the wheel.”
J.M.: Joseph, without wishing
to appear to be callous, we simply
can’t find accommodation for
“broken-hearted mothers” whose
“eyes are brimming wet”
C.K.W.: “The Master and His
Mate” both lost their tickets.


Is it cruel to mark and
tail lambs and mark calves
by Elastrator rubber rings?
The findings of the British
Veterinary Association sup-
port the claim that, pro-
vided they are used on
newly-born lambs and calves
Elastrator rubber rings
cause no discomfort or pain.
The findings are quoted in
full in the “Elastrator Bulle-
tin,” a copy of which is
available on application to
Elastrator (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.,
125 William Street, Mel-
bourne.
HITS
LYS
PROOF
IBM**** ,mm
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
" ™" r ' i
* J, S'*
*■ ''■* V * , V -ir-ff l - <,
>,;
* *
iilK
m
:
■w**
mfflm *SF % **• J
sm
m
mS
m
■ ■ ■■•: '■....-'• _.. .. J. .-: .
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WATER FOR THE INLAND
WATER for the inland has
’ been the dream of a good
many men, . myself included ;
now, with the formation of an
Australian Water Research
Foundation, it seems appropriate
to outline something of these
early plans. Many Bulletin
readers, of course, will be
familiar with the theories of
Bradfield and others. But some,
particularly younger ones, may
have only vague notions of what
these theories were.
The idea of irrigating our vast
inland dates back to about 1883,
when Sir Richard Baker, a South
Australian politician, advocated
filling Lake Eyre from the sea.
The theory was that a large sur-
face of water in the inland would,
by evaporation, increase the
rainfall. *
Scientists and engineers
generally don’t think much of
the notion, but I still hold that
the filling of Lake Eyre from the
sea at Port Augusta, which is
Bft. above sea-level, is a long-
range plan that will some day
be necessary and will be made
possible with the aid of modern
mechanisation and science. We
can now desalt water easily and
cheaply. We also need a large
surface of water in the Centre
to produce clouds by evapora-
tion to make rain scientifically.
Lake Eyre is 39ft. below sea-
level.
In 1887 a Queensland engineer,
E. A. Leonard, read a paper
before the Royal Geographical
Society advocating much of
what is now being done on
North Queensland rivers. Leo-
nard suggested much of what Dr.
J. C. Bradfield proposed in his
big scheme in 1939.
Dr. Bradfield proposed that
in North Queensland, which has
the highest rainfall of any part
of Australia (in 1945 it had well
over 200 in.), the floodwaters of
the Tully and other rivers should
be turned into the Burdekin,
and that a 400 ft.-dam should
be put at the 1400 ft.-level of the
Burdekin. By that means Dr.
Bradfield thought he could divert
enough water under or over the
Great Dividing Range to deliver
60,000 cubic-feet of water a
minute at Muttaburra, on the
Thompson, which is the head-
waters of the Cooper, and thus
irrigate the river-flats of the
Cooper right down to the shores
of Lake Eyre.
Subsequent military aerial-
surveys have proved that Dr.
Bradfield was wrong. But the
value of Dr. Bradfield’s work
remains in the nation-wide in-
terest he aroused in irrigation
for the inland.
About the same time —in
1939 —lon Idriess (who has wide
bush and inland experience), in
his book The Great Boomerang
further publicised the idea of
irrigating the inland. Idriess,
wisely, did not lay down any
hard-and-fast plans: but he did
suggest that it might be possible
to divert the floodwaters of cer-
tain rivers the Norman, the
Flinders and others that flow
north into the Gulf of Carpen-
taria—back over the Selwyn
Range and down into the
Georgina and Diamantina
(which' flow down into the east
side of Lake Eyre), and thus
irrigate an enormous area of the
inland.
A few years later an engineer,
L. B. S. Reid, proposed a
detailed plan to dam and divert
the floodwaters of the northern
rivers on the eastern side of the
Gulf —the Walsh, the Tate, the
Lynd, the Gilbert and others —
over the Selwyn Range down
into the Diamantina at Winton,
which is 612 ft. above sea-level.
This plan never seems to have
aroused much interest, although
I think it is practicable.
My own opinion is that we can
irrigate the Centre and North of
Australia. We can irrigate in
three ways: by dams, weirs and
tanks. We can dam all the
coastal rivers in the North,
from the Fitzroy on the east
coast to the Fitzroy on the west
coast.
None of these large coastal
rivers presents any engineering
difficulty. On the Katherine
River, in the Northern Territory,
there is, 16 miles up from the
present town of Katherine, a
great gorge in the ranges that is
an engineer’s dream.
It is deep and narrow, and
if it were dammed it would hold
a vast storage of water. Catch-
ment-area is 40in.-rainfall
country. From a dam there we
could hydroelectrify much of
the northern part of the
Northern Territory and irrigate
all the beautiful river-flats on the
Katherine and Daly rivers.
The Victoria, the Ord and the
Fitzroy rivers could all be
dammed and used for irrigation.
There is a splendid dam-site at
Geikie Gorge on the Fitzroy,
two more in the Leonard River
and Baker River gorges. Watch
the Fitzroy, for it is one of the
best rivers in the North.
At Yampi Sound, on the
rugged West Kimberley coast,
there is a 40ft. rise and fall in
the tide. I suggest that we could
harness that tide. In and around
the numerous islands in Yampi
Sound there are narrow straits
and channels between islands and
mainland. With the high rise and
fall of the tide there is a con-
tinual rushing to and fro of a
great volume of tidal water, and
those tides never cease, never
sleep, and never go on strike.
We could anchor large barges
fitted with waterwheels in the
tidal waters, and the tides would
turn the wheels and thus generate
the power to electrify the whole
"The flies are tame here!"
of the West Kimberley and make
furnaces to smelt the iron ore
of Yampi Sound on the spot.
The three great rivers the
Georgina, the Diamantina and
the Cooper that pour down
into Lake Eyre from the east
will need weirs: the country is
too flat for dams. Those rivers
head up in North Queensland
from the Selwyn Range. Every
three or four years (or more
frequently after the big rains)
they may come down singly. In
cycles of about 15 years they
all come down together, and then
Lake Eyre is filled. If at the same
time all the great sandy rivers
on the west side of Lake Eyre
also come down, then there is
a record filling of the lake, as
in 1950.
These inland rivers do not
flow along well-defined channels.
They are more like strings of
waterholes and flooded plains
than like ordinary rivers. When
the great floods come down they
fill-up the waterholes, which
may be 10 or 12 miles long,
200yds. wide and 50ft. deep.
Then the floodwaters spill-out
over the beautiful black-soil
plains. These plains are irri-
gated naturally by the many
small channels —hence the name,
the Channel Country.
These great sprawling, slug-
gish rivers meander down for
700 miles into Lake Eyre. We
could weir the large waterholes
quite easily and cheaply with
earth-and-log weirs, put another
20ft. or so of holding-capacity
on to them, and then —perhaps
with sprinkler-irrigation, which
has reached a high state of
efficiency grow all kinds of
fodder on the river plains.
Away over on the west side of
Lake Eyre, the Anna, the Neales,
the Macumba, *the Finke and
others that flow down into the
lake are too shallow and sandy
even for weirs in most places.
But modern earthmoving-equip-
ment could scoop out large tanks
of many million-gallons capa-
city. Again, with sprinkler-
irrigation, enough fodder could
be grown in the good years to
fatten the cattle in the dry years.
The sin. rainfall around the
north of Lake Eyre does not
seem much to irrigate with; but
that rain does not fall a few
points at a time, but in great
deluges of 4in, or sin., sometimes
as much as 10in., in a night. We
must conserve that water where
we have it and when we have it,
by scooping out numerous tanks
of the “turkey-nest” type, with
long drains to feed them.
Immediately north of Lake
Eyre, where the Finke (the
longest river in Central Aus-
tralia, with the headwaters up
above the Hermannsburg Mis-
sion on the other side of the
Macdonnell Ranges) runs into
the Macumba, a flood means a
huge tangled net of swollen
creeks and watery plains. About
70 miles north of Lake Eyre is
Dalhousie Springs, an oasis of
about 13 acres of spring- water.
Right across the inland —say,
due west of Alice Springs—there
are ancient sunken rivers. These
could be used in a large-scale
scheme for watering the inland.
All the water that falls on such a
catchment as Ayers Rock, which
has a 12in. rainfall, could be
drained away. The inland is a
vast experimental area in which,
with the help of modern science
and machinery, we can work
wonders. Given water, we can
plant great belts of trees. In
time, we will make use of the
large caverns of water under
the Nullarbor Plains.
MICHAEL SAWTELL.
The Pittman Technique
Considerable publicity has
been given to the work done by
Professor Vincent and Mr. R. G.
Marquez in the establishment of
clover on the acid-soils of the
Pilliga Scrub, in New South
Wales. The successful method
used by Mr. Marquez appears to
involve the drilling-in of
inoculated clover-seed with a
two-to-one mixture of lime and
superphosphate in bands.
In recent months Hartwig and
Weir, of the N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, Professor Wad-
ham, of Melbourne University,
as well as Sydney University
scientists, have advocated a
similar technique for clover-
establishment in many parts of
Australia on the acid-sods which
constitute so much of our un-
improved grazing-country.
A couple of months ago, Dr.
J. Melville, Director of the
Grasslands Division of the
D.5.1.R., New Zealand, publi-
cised this method as a “new tool”
for clover-establishment in “diffi-
cult” country in N.Z., and our
own C.5.1.R.0. in recent
announcements endorses the
method for certain soils.
E. J. Breakwell, pastures-
adviser for the A.M.L. and F.,
and formerly of Sydney Uni-
versity, whose development of
the “sod-seeder” made the prac-
tice of this technique simple and
economical, also advocates the
use of inoculated seed plus basic
super., or a mixture of lime and
super., instead of straight super,
in acid-soils, The concentration
of the fertiliser in bands in close
proximity to the inoculated seed,
which appears to be an im-
portant fact in the success of
sod-seeding, can destroy the
rhizobia if the acidity of the
super, is not neutralised by lime.
But what concerns me is the
fact that there is very little
recognition of the fact that this
technique was originated by an
officer of the Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture, H. A. J. Pitt-
man. His method was based on
the results of experiments carried
out in May, 1941, at Inverloch,
in Gippsland (Vic.). His findings
are contained in a brochure put
out by the Victorian Compost
Society, which is a condensation
of an address given to the society
in 1946.
This one short report covers
fully the work described as new
by various scientists and depart-
ments. The Pittman method has
been employed successfully by
many farmers and graziers in
Victoria for a number of years.
The report is deserving of
publication in full, but if, for
reasons of space, this is im-
practicable, it can be summed-up
by saying that in the acid-soil
of the Inverloch district, inocu-
lated legumes sown in bands in
intimate contact with 50-50 lime
and super, outproduced un-
inoculated seed by from seven-
fold in the case of Mt. Barker


The "FARMERS' BOY"
DOES A MAN’S JOB ABOUT
THE PEACE
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
ment illus-
trated is the
World-famous
“ FARMERS ’
B
c:
BOY” STEPPED - AXLE
PLOUGH.
Write or telepnone your nearest
State Distributor for free particu-
lars and for free demonstration of
the attachments that interest you:
N.S.YV.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BU 1511.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8551.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1551.
Q’LAND: Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2631.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
115 York St., Launceston. VV. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2495.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., !Ltd.
74 CasUereagU bt., ojunej.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... 2/-
k Yearly 22/6
Z- - ‘°“ °
building •
tow
P\> H
wtc«W|
IK** 1
HIM 6
OROO*^
i£*'°
P.W 1
w*»
rO° m
BtO
|6»
T. 5
(vCt
Tt»
me
Write to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
"D," Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, foi
copy of SMALL
HOMES BOOK.
WHEN YOU USE "DURABISTOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WALLS. INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS,
Qget right down to bedrock cost. You gain
ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions. •
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixes
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
'DURABISTOSvS^SHEETS
siib.-clover to more than thirty-
fold in the case of Greenfeast
garden-peas.
Although Pittman generally
recommends a matured 50-50
lime-super, mixture as most
satisfactory and economical, he
was not adamant on this par-
ticular ratio, and the Aust.
patent (application No. 127,817)
which was granted to Pittman
and his farmer-collaborator,
Anderson, in October, 1944,
covers various ratios, including
the l-super.-2-lime used by Mr.
Marquez in the Pilliga Scrub
area.
It is interesting to note that
Pittman and Anderson gave their
provisional patent gratis to the
War Inventions Directorate in
May, 1943, as a means of easing
the crucial phosphate-shortage of
the war-years.
A public notice printed in the
“G. and N. Co-operator”
(7/4/’49) and in the Melbourne
“Argus” of the same date
advertised that this patent was
free for any organisation or in-
dividual to use without royalty
payment or fee of any kind.
This notice (copy available)
described the Pittman method as
the sowing of legume-seed with
rhizobial inoculation with a well-
matured mixture of lime and
superphosphate in bands through
a drill. At that time the “sod-
seeder,” which is the type of
drill that Pittman envisaged, had
not been developed.
I am particularly concerned
that H. A. J. Pittman should be
given full credit for his author-
ship of this technique, because
he has suffered professionally by
his forceful advocacy of it.
I understand that in 1949
H. A. J. Pittman appeared before
a Public Service Tribunal and
was reduced in grading and
salary because, contrary to an
instruction from the then
Director of Agriculture in Vic-
toria, Mr. Mullet, he advised a
soldier-settler from the Murray
Valley to try inoculating sub.-
clover with rhizobium and sow-
ing it through a drill (i.e., in
ribbons) with a mixture of lime
and super;
This is the method which suc-
ceeded in the Pilliga. This is the
method which played a major
part in the success of sod-seeding,
and is currently advocated for
acid-soils by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, C.5.1.R.0.,
D.S.I.R. in New Zealand, the
University of Sydney, and the
Dean of the Faculty of Agricul-
ture of Melbourne University.
It is the method that I would
advocate from my own observa-
tions (with the addition of minor-
elements where necessary) for the
high-rainfall, acid, phosphate-
deficient soils of the coastal plain
of Victoria, or the Silurian mud-
stone soils of the Great Dividing
Range, for the “granite” country
of the highlands of Central Vic-
toria, for the difficult County
of Cumberland soils, and else-
where.
I think it is only fair that Mr.
Pittman’s work as pioneer of
the technique should be fully
and widely acknowledged.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Occupational Disease
“L.C.”: If your dog collapses
for short periods, or begins to
slow-up when working sheep, he
may not be shirking: could be
heart-trouble caused by over-
work. Other symptoms of this
trouble are intermittent coughing
and heavy breathing or grunting
noises as he dozes. The condi-
tion doesn’t affect appetite.
As no good dog likes missing
work, the best thing to do is to
wean him from it gradually, cut-
ting out his help on overstrenuous
days and getting him used to the
idea of resting. Good lean meat
and some well-beaten eggs each
week will supply him with the
nourishment he needs and keep
him at normal weight. He will
want lots of water.
Fat-lamb Lessons
“Catskill”: Major lessons
from the Australian Meat
Board’s 1955 export-lamb com-
petition were:
1. The British market is now
discriminating against too much
fat. Overfinished lambs are at
a disadvantage.
2. Australia’s unsightly car-
cass brands are a definite disad-
vantage.
The winning pen, exhibited by
Mr. and Mrs. Hancock, of
Warracknabeal (Vic.), was by a
Southdown ram out of English
Leicester-cross ewes. Most
other State winners were by
Southdowns, but an excellent pen
of fast-grown classy carcasses
were by a Dorset Horn from a
Dorset-Corriedale ewe. Exhibitor
was the well-known Mr. Daw-
kins, of Newbold stud, South
Australia.
Zinc-sprays
“Big Billy”: S.A. Department
of Agriculture has established
that an 80 per cent, saving in
labor-costs can be made in zinc-
spraying by using a drive-past
boom.
However, they strongly advise
against combining zinc and oil
for scale-sprays. Firstly, zinc-
sprays are preferably applied in
early summer, while oil-sprays
for scale-control are most
effective in mid-summer.
Secondly, it is probable that the
efficiency of the oil is reduced.
Thirdly, the type of application
required for effective zinc-spray-
ing is quite different from that
required for an effective oil-
spraying.
At present, there doesn’t seem
to be any alternative to the care-
ful hand-spraying method of
applying oil-sprays for the con-
trol of scale-insects.
Spraying with zinc is costly in
terms of man-hours when large
areas of citrus have to be covered
by manually-operated rods or
guns. The boom satisfactorily
operated in the Berri district is
constructed of lin. galvanised-
piping in the shape of an in-
verted letter U, the spray-
material being fed into the boom
from both ends. Nozzles, in
pairs, on Y-yokes, are welded
into the boom in such a way
that one nozzle on each pair
faces slightly ahead, with the
other facing slightly to the rear.
This enables spray-mixture to
be applied to the tree as the out-
fit approaches, passes, and leaves
the tree.
Even though two trips per
row are required with this
equipment, the method repre-
sents a very considerable saving
in man-hours, because, instead
of a driver with two men operat-
ing the spray-hoses, only the
driver of the tractor is now
required.
On an area with 1400 fully-
grown citrus-trees, tests show a
reduction in labor-costs of 80 per
cent. Under the old method
three men were needed for five
days, giving a total of 15 man-
days, costing about £37 10s.
Using the boom, one man does
the job in three days at a cost
of £7 10s. Slightly more spray-
material is used, but, as this is
cheap, it isn’t a significant
factor.
The outfit has a two-cylinder
double-action pump, with a
maximum output of 12 gallons
per minute, mounted on a 200-
gallon vat, and is suitable for
all classes of orchard-spraying,
including oil-spraying for control
of red-scale of citrus. The boom
also has been proved to be quite
adaptable for winter applications
of zinc-sulphate to deciduous
trees such as peaches, apricots
and pears.
Footrot Facts
“Merino”: It’s not the work
nor the cost that is so important
in eradicating footrot from the
flock; the vital thing is to do
the job properly, and to take
adequate precautions against
reinfestation.
December to March is the best
time to tackle the job—holidays
or no holidays. Proper paring is
impossible without drawing
blood. Every foot must be pared
thoroughly.
All tracks and paddocks must
be spelled for at least a week
after a suspected mob uses them.
Affected sheep which have not
recovered by autumn should go
to the butcher.
These and 'other facts are
stressed by the Vic. Department
of Agriculture, which conducted
a successful eradication last year
(1955) for 2s. 2d. a sheep—
about the value of |lb. of wool.
Cost included labor, formalin,
and temporary foot-baths.
Lactation Periods
“Ballarat”: Short average-
length of lactation is a big factor
in the low average-production
of Australian cows, compared
with cows in the more advanced
dairying countries, such as New
Zealand. Which raises the ques-
tion : What is a satisfactory
lactation period?
In most of the recognised
dairying countries it is accepted
that cows should be milked for
10 months, spelled for two
months, and that they should
calve 12 months after the pre-
vious calving.
Main causes of short lactation,
in order of importance, seem to
be: low level of nutrition;
wrong month of calving ; infer-
tility ; uncontrolled matings;
inheritance.
Poultry Care
“Hortus”: Fowls mostly perch
in the same spot each night: if
droppings are watched periodi-
cally, a good check may be kept
on their health and condition.
It’s fairly safe to say that, if
the droppings are of a firm tex-
ture or reasonably firm, irre-
spective of color, the fowls are
in good order.
If, on the other hand, the
motions are of a loose nature,
especially watery, milky or
slimy, then something remedial
is required at once. A good dose
of castor-oil is the best initial
medicine.
Regarding color of droppings,
there are so many variations that
no hard-and-fast rule can be
followed. Soil affects coloring.
Hens scratching in chocolate soil,
for instance, will deposit a
similar kind of dropping. Those
on a light sandy loam will tend
to pass a lighter-colored motion.
If the diet is a fattening one
—i.e., the birds are not receiving
a balanced ration, but one with
too much carbohydrates the
droppings will be from light-
yellow to dark-yellow in color.
If hens are getting a diet which
is forcing their production, their
droppings will tend to become
very dark. So a normal healthy
color seems to lie between those
two extremes. It is generally
referred to as a deep black-
brown.
It’s wise to investigate care-
fully when motions are very
light, particularly if they are
loose and either sulphur-yellow
or green.
A yellowish tinge seems to
indicate some liver trouble. The
bile is not functioning properly.
In a small backyard flock,
probably too much fatty food
has been given in the boiled-
up “scraps.” Give one-fourth
grain of calomel twice a week
to affected birds until the yellow
color disappears.
Too much wet grass or other
greenstuff, or yellowish-green
grass covered with sand, may
give fowls diarrhoea with
greenish streaks. A teaspoon of
castor-oil given right from the
jump will do good here.
Look out for a reddish, slimy
or jelly-like streak ; symptoms of
worms. Poultry running on the
same small lot year after year
always get wormy and suffer
from both round-worms and
tape-worms. If the bowel-
movements are closely examined
you will find the excrement con-
tains many small worms and
eggs.
Always keep a good worm-
powder handy and mix it
thoroughly with the dry-mash.
A level-filled matchbox of worm-
powder is enough for 40 adult
birds. For round-worms, an old
remedy was pumpkin-seeds or
raw carrots.
If you are sure any fowl has
tape-worms, starve it for a day
and then give eight drops tur-
pentine in a teaspoonful of
castor-oil.
Apart from the texture and
color of droppings, the sick
bird is bound to show signs of
something wrong, such as dull-
ness, weakness, loss of appetite,
a tendency to isolate itself, leg-
weakness.
Irritation from lice lowers a
fowl’s vitality very quickly. A
handful of sulphur put into the
feed twice a week will cause
lice to disappear.
Crosscuts
The new Water Research
Foundation reports three field-
days in January—the first to-
morrow (Thursday) at Bega
(N.S.W.).
=l= * *
“Macleay Argus” (N.S.W.
North Coast) reports that several
farmers on the Bellinger River
have used a.i. in their herds:
semen from Jersey and A.I.S.
bulls (proven sires) at the Aber-
deen cattle-breeding centre,
owned by that very go-ahead
concern, the Hunter River Co-
operative Dairy Co.
* * *
Queensland Sugar Board re-
ports an additional payment of
£3 3s. a ton to be made about
the end of January for “up to
peak” sugar-delivery by that
date. With the current advance,
this will bring the amount ad-
vanced on sugar to the end of
January to £3B 3s. a ton.
C.S.R., the Sugar Board’s agents,
will advise mills of particulars
of the interim payment.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: Using radioactive
phosphorus, U.S. Department
of Agriculture experts have suc-
cessfully developed a method of
measuring phosphate in any
soil so accurately that it can be
expressed in terms of pounds of
superphosphate-equivalent per
acre. The method is now being
employed to improve phosphate-
fertiliser recommendations.
* * *
“P.”: January and February
are bad months for lambs in
many Victorian districts—a good
many going down to entero-
toxaemia (pulpy-kidney). Especi-
ally those bought for fattening
on cow-grass and rape. Best
method of control for fat-lambs
is the quick-acting antiserum.
* * *
For a long time there’s been a
need for an authoritative list of
scientific and common names
of insect-pests in Australia. The
matter was brought up at the
A.N.Z.A.A.S. conference at Bris-
bane in 1951, and a committee
was elected to see to it. The list
has now come out as C.5.1.R.0.
Bulletin No. 275 “Common
names of insects and allied forms
occurring in Australia.”
KNOW AT A GLANCE
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing,
particularly when you have to
make a snap decision—in the
yards, or shed, or in the pad-
dock—with a type, perhaps,
outside the main run of your
experience. And that’s when
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card comes in handy,
as growers, classers, students
and others concerned with the
handling of wool have dis-
covered, in most parts of Aus-
tralia. Cheap, too 7/6.
Send name and address with
postal note.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Efficient Management
Business- and production-management
(B. 14/12 / ’55) are rapidly gaining
recognition as having a significant
influence on a nation’s welfare.
Despite criticism of American high-
pressure methods, the fact remains that
the U.S.A. leads the world in production
of consumer-goods. And it is in that
country that business-management is
studied and implemented to the full. Pro-
vided there is a market —and there always
is one for the right goods at the right
price—wise management will cater for it
at a reasonable profit.
Efficient management includes the co-
operation of employer and employee in
seeing that every hour worked is fully
productive, without hardship or injustice
to anyone. Nothing is more ruinous to
industry than wasted time, and many an
enterprise has failed, not because of a
shorter working-week, but because of
unequal distribution of labor and the
consequent overpowering cost of pro-
duction.
Good management means not only
mechanical proficiency, but also the
practice of applied psychology in handling
a plant and its workers. Already in
Australia some companies haVe found
that this has led to better understanding
and co-operation between employer and
employees. Increased working-hours
would certainly keep everyone longer on
the job, but only scientific management
will raise the percentage-rate of produc-
tion and spread the burden evenly among
all concerned. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Darwin
How many years since “Murran-ji”
visited Darwin (B. 7/12/’55)?
Buses n’ow run to Parap and to the
hospital at least every half-hour in the
day ; at night they run less frequently,
but do take folk to the pictures and home
afterwards. They also run for sports-
meetings and the like.
There are no shanty-shops being built
in Darwin ; most business-firms are build-
ing good premises on concrete founda-
tions —with every evidence of strong
faith in the future of the town.
Admitted, the town is overstaffed with
Government officials, but the blame for
that' is with Canberra.
Darwin has a large number of tennis-
courts, and dances are held two and three
times weekly at the different halls —
R.S.L., Buffalo Lodge and Masonic Hall,
not to mention the mess-halls of the
different Services stationed at Darwin.
Practically all the hostels are run by the
Government; if they are badly furnished
and without the ordinary things civilised
people are accustomed to, the fault lies
with Canberra.
Many private residents own their
homes, whether wharflaborers or others.
More homes would be built if materials
and labor were available, but the Gov-
ernment collars most of these for Gov-
ernment building.
If there are no trees in the streets of
Darwin to provide shade, there are trees
in the gardens facing these streets, and
they provide not only shade but color,
especially when the callypalum-trees,
poincianas and frangipani are all in flower
together. And no base-rate clerk’s wife
ever has to walk many miles along empty
streets to do her shopping—the buses run
frequently in and out of the suburbs and
stop to pick-up or set-down passengers
at any street-corner. Also, there are shops
and general stores at Parap, Fanny Bay,
Nightcliff and other suburban areas.
The Darwin sports-oval is in the town-
area, about five-minutes’ walk from the
shopping-centre. The Gardens oval is
about one-and-a-half miles from Darwin,
and taxis and buses run there frequently
when sports-meetings are held. A basket-
ball-field is within the town radius, less
than a half-mile from the shopping-
centre, and the Air Force, Army and
Navy also have their own sports-ovals.
Rifle-shooting, cricket, tennis, basketball,
hockey, football, baseball and motor-
cycling, to mention only a few sports, all
have their devotees. There are 10 foot-
ball-teams and nine hockey-teams.
As for Alice Springs being one of the
most attractive towns in the Common-
wealth —few Darwinites will agree with
that. If “civil servants make every effort
to remain there,” that’§ good. Darwin
can do with half of what it has at present,
and Alice Springs is welcome to the
surplus.— Darwinite (N.T.).
Hungry Skippers
There are no “hungry skippers” today
(B. 14/12/’55), but many of the older
Ones remember their early days at sea
when they were hungry between bites of
hard-tack. They often worked 24 hours
a day, with no overtime, and living-con-
ditions were bad. Many served before
the mast as able seamen and were paid
£4 per month before they came to the
poop or bridge. And what about all
those years when they slogged along be-
tween watches to earn their second, first
and master’s tickets, which, with a clean-
sheet as to conduct and ability, eventu-
ally gained them their commands?
Then came this pilotage exemption,
and if you could not take your ship into
any Australian port, day or night, any
weather, and tie her up at the wharf with-
out a pilot, then you did not get a com-
mand. Or, if you had one and did not
qualify in a given time, you made room
for one who did.
Look at a large-scale chart of any of
our main Australian ports (Brisbane for
choice) and take a decko at the approaches
through Moreton Bay. / You’ll see what a
would-be pilot has to memorise for one
port alone.
You may have entered and left Bris-
bane dozens of times as a junior officer,
and as a watchful and ambitious one, but
climb that bridge in the best of weather
and watch your skipper or pilot dodging
the shoals of Moreton Bay before he
reaches the river-mouth, then the tortuous
run up to his berth, often having to swing
his ship in a strong wind and tide!
If the laborer is worth his hire, why
begrudge the shipmaster his 50 per cent.?
—S. Hawkes (Q.).
H.-p. in Retailing
Figures prepared by the Common-
wealth Statistician show that hire-pur-
chase trading in Australia now accounts
for approximately 10 per cent, of annual
retail-sales. But although this proportion
appears high, it does not follow that it is
dangerously so. Nor does it support the
contention that, in the event of a sub-
sidence in our boom-conditions, a high
level of hire-purchase activity will hasten
any decline in trading. It is necessary to
break-down the published figures in
several ways.
First, allowance must be made for the
amount of initial capital supplied by
purchasers in the form of deposits and
advance-instalments. Of the £267.7-
million of hire-purchase sales effected for
the 12 months ended September last, de-
posits and advance-instalments accounted
for £106.2-million, or 39 per cent. So
the amount of capital actually being sup-
plied on a time-payment basis is £ 162-
million. If this figure is expressed as a
proportion of annual retail-sales, the
ratio of time-payment transactions is
reduced from 10.3 per cent, to a less-
formidable 6.2 per cent.
Second, the figures should be grouped
to show the type of goods sold under
hire-purchase agreements. The three
main classes given by official figures are
motor-vehicles, household-goods, and
plant and machinery. Of the £ 162-million
of time-payment capital used last year
for the purchase of these goods, £115.3-
million (71 per cent.) was used for the
purchase of motor-vehicles, £40.3-million
(25 per cent.) for household-goods and
£6.2-million (3.8 per cent.) for plant and
machinery.
Finally, to appreciate the overall im-
portance of these transactions they should
“That’s what happened next!”
be expressed as a percentage of total
retail-sales. Thus,, the amount of time-
payment capital used for the purchase of
motor-vehicles represented only 4.4 per
cent. of annual retail-transactions,
household-goods 1.5 per cent., plant and
machinery 0.3 per cent.
Considered in this light, the importance
of hire-purchase finance in retail-trading
is comparatively small, and it would
appear that isolated fluctuations in its
activities would leave the overall pace of
retail-trading unaffected.
By no means, however, should the
figures be ignored. Considered in respect
to particular industries they are of great
importance.
In the motor-industry, for example,
although credit facilitated the purchase of
motor-vehicles which represented only 4.4
per cent, of total retail-sales, it should be
noted that these transactions also repre-
sented 19.1 per cent. —or almost one-
fifth —of all motor-vehicle sales. A de-
cline in hire-purchase operations in this
field could strongly influence both the
volume and pace of the industry’s activi-
ties. This becomes more significant when
it is remembered that the motor-industry
and its allied services now hold a key
position in the country’s economy.
If the volume of hire-purchase trans-
actions shown for household-items could
be split into particular types of goods,
such as electrical-appliances, furnishings,
etc., these figures could be of interest to
the more studious investor. As they
stand, however, their volume- appears to
be insufficient to be of any importance
to total retail-trading or even to the
investor interested in specific retailing-
fields.
The figures for plant and machinery,
of course, reveal that industry generally
is not contributing to any expansion in
hire-purchase activities, however much
it may be seeking credit through the
orthodox channels,
To these conclusions the only quali-
fication necessary is that concerning the
reliability of the hire-purchase figures
published.
Because of the widespread nature of
time-payment transactions, it is unlikely
that details of all hire-purchase operations
in Australia would be incorporated in the
Statistician’s figures. Departmental-
stores, for example, finance many of their
own transactions, as do some other large
trading-houses. Moreover, there is a
reluctance in many concerns, particularly
smaller ones, to supply information re-
quested by the Statistician, which means
that the published figures reflect only the
volume of business done by the large
credit-houses.
This, however, would alter the con-
clusions reached only as regards their
detail. They would merely appear to
understate the position. In broad out-
line the figures given would present a true
picture of the hire-purchase scene.
At least they provide some answer to
the vague fears often associated with hire-
purchase activity.—X. Y. Z. (N.S.W.).
Licensed Clubs
There is nothing undemocratic about
the new Queensland legislation govern-
ing licensed clubs (“Double X,” B.
7/12/’55).
It means, simply, that if a club holding
a liquor-licence refuses to admit to mem-
bership any applicant eligible under its
written rules, the applicant may appeal
to the Licensing Commission.
Surely “Double X” does not suggest
that this is any less democratic than the
old “Star Chamber” method of selection
under which any candidate, no matter
how reputable or honorable, could be, and
often was, “blackballed” on religious or
racial grounds.
The disclosure by the Queensland
Premier, Mr. Gair, that one Brisbane club
had a ban against Jews and Lebanese
born in Queensland, and that another
had “blackballed” a Queensland judge,
reveals the nature of the discrimination
formerly practised in these august estab-
lishments.
“Double X” and others apparently
want to perpetuate an anachronism of this
democratic age by retaining clubs as
close preserves for a hand-picked coterie.
In the past, club-members rarely had
the opportunity to vote for or against
a new member. Such decisions were
made solely by the committee, and if
only two members (probably one was
sufficient in some clubs) objected to a
nomination, the candidate was not
admitted.
Now, the rejected member’s appeal is
heard by a special tribunal consisting of
a nominee from the Licensing Commis-
sion, a representative sent by the aggrieved
person and a representative of the club.
The club must explain to the tribunal
exactly why it objects to having the
member, and unless the objection satisfies
the tribunal it will order the club to admit
him to membership.
If “Double X’s” concept of democracy
is that one or two members only in a
committee of 10 should be able to reject
the nomination of a candidate for mem-
bership, it differs radically from mine
and that of the majority of Australians.
—Sineus (Q.).


Savings-bank
Increased competition from some of
the trading-banks when they enter the
savings-bank field will result in the exist-
ing savings-banks having less funds
available for investment in Common-
wealth and semi-Government loans
(their favorite form of investment). As
the new banks will have other avenues
in mind, these loans will not be so easily
filled.
It seems that the funds of the new sav-
ings-banks will be lent to the parent
banks for use in their own general bank-
ing—and such moneys could not be put
t° better use. With the increased com-
petition and its own expensive overhead,
the State Savings Bank of Victoria will
doubtless show poorer trading-results,
and the ultimate effect could be that it
will be driven into the arms of the Com-
monwealth Bank. Such a move would
probably suit the bigger bank very well.
If that does happen, the Common-
wealth Bank would have available to it
a chain of branches throughout Victoria,
all well-staffed and housed in substantial
premises. It would give representation,
by way of a branch, in many places
where there are at present only post-office
agencies. Those premises and staff would
become available for general as well as
savings-bank business, although that
would take time, as most present savings-
bank staff is not qualified to undertake
general banking. They would need to be
trained, and probably would not take
kindly to it, as they are exceedingly well
paid at present for conducting the very
elementary savings-bank side.
Another aspect of the increased com-
petition will be the opportunity afforded
the general public to keep, “at call,” in-
creasingly large amounts earning interest
at 2\ per cent. Already, by opening
“trust”-accounts and other manoeuvres,
and by keeping accounts on lines similar
to those of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, individual depositors can have
several passbooks with the maximum per-
missible amount in each. The entry of
the trading-banks into the field will in-
crease the opportunity for this sort of
thing, which, from the old conservative
banking viewpoint, may not be so good.
Conservative banking-practice required
that interest-bearing deposits, other than
genuine small savings-accounts, should
be for fixed terms, as the paying
of interest for large individual deposits
payable at call was regarded as risky.
Originally, of course, the express pur-
pose of savings-banks was to encourage
thrift among artisans and mechanics (as
they were then called), who, up to that
time, were without facilities for earning
a little interest on their small savings.
Things have moved a long way from that
original conception, and the position was
recognised as undesirable by the Royal
Commission on Banking, which made a
very definite recommendation on the
point. Not only was that recommenda-
tion ignored but the state of affairs to
which the commission drew attention has
been greatly aggravated.
If, however, other institutions are en-
couraged to make a bid for available
deposits by offering the facilities men-
tioned, then it is only fair that trading-
banks should be allowed to acquire, on
similar terms, a share of these deposits.
Deposits are the lifeblood of those banks,
which finance almost every phase of the
nation’s economy and industry.
There is this to be said for the moves
now being made by the trading-banks,
the funds they collect in their savings-
banks will, when used in their general
banking, be in a more liquid form than
in Government, semi-Government and
long-term credit-foncier loans. It is not
sound banking-policy to “borrow short”
and “lend long,” and that maxim holds
good despite the existence of a guarantee
by any State Government. The experi-
ence of the late lamented Government
Savings Bank in N.S.W. proved that.
It will be interesting to see how the
trading-banks fare in this new line. It
does not seem likely that they will be
permitted to offer higher rates for deposits
than the other savings-banks, but, despite
that, they will acquire a large share of
such business. One thing is certain —
they’ll be able to conduct it much more
economically than the present expensive
set-up of the Victorian Government bank.
Signs are already appearing that the com-
missioners are waking up to what is in
the offing.
The use of deposits, collected in the
new savings-banks, over a much wider
field of enterprise than heretofore will be
of greater benefit to the community at
large. Failure to appreciate that aspect
has been the basis of some criticism
levelled at savings-banks in the past.
They seem to have taken the view that
“Did you have to send all my clothes to the laundry?”
they were merely collecting-agencies for
filling the ever-open Government loans.
—Perce Entage (Vic.).
Prison-labor
The Victorian Government proposal
that prison-labor should work on altera-
tions at Pentridge, Victoria’s main jail,
brought protests from unions which con-
sidered they were affected. These out-
bursts tend to conceal some very real
problems.
Obviously, cheap prison-manufactures
must not be permitted to compete un-
fairly with goods manufactured by those
who have to meet a costly wages-bill.
On the other hand, it is not hypocritical
to talk of the convict’s right to work.
The greatest deficiency of our present
penal-system is the amount of time during
which the convict has nothing to occupy
his mind. Even if many criminals are
incorrigible, some can be helped to find
self-respect by learning a trade and
acquiring a pride in achievement.
At the same time, the cost of main-
taining a prison is high, and we have not
discovered a satisfactory alternative to
imprisonment in many criminal-cases.
That cost can be reduced by employing
the convicts in some form of productive
activity. The problem of cheap prison-
labor is by no means insurmountable.
A more difficult problem could arise in
a period of unemployment, but an argu-
ment based on deprivation of employ-
ment is untenable in these days of pros-
perity. A pity these effusive trade-union
leaders do not pay more attention to the
needs of the community and of people
who, although at present imprisoned, are
still fellow-humans with a capacity for
becoming useful members of the com-
munity.—D. M. (Q.).
“Labor’s” Next Move
The overwhelming defeat of Labor
under Evatt’s leadership has brought
home for the second time in two years
the fact that A.L.P. policy is out-of-step
with Australian thinking.
It is useless for those who control the
party to lay all the blame for their defeat
on Evatt, or to blame sectarianism or the
redistribution of electorates. Those
factors, although present in the election,
were certainly not strong enough in
themselves to cause such a large per-
centage of voters who supported Labor
until 1949 to swing their allegiance to
the Liberal and Country parties for the
third time since then.
By far the greatest factor in Labor’s
defeat was the fact that the average Aus-
tralian is not prepared to hand the
supreme government of the country to a
party pledged to Socialisation.
The old .Socialist creed is hopelessly
out-of-date. The average worker realises
that his share of the fruits of industry is
greater than ever before; he realises the
strength of the trade-union movement,
and, if he is sensible, he realises that a
healthy counter-pressure to its strength
is essential. He knows that the lowest
standards of employment today are to be
found in the large Socialist undertakings,
such as transport; he knows the precari-
ousness of such Socialist “enterprises” as
Glen Davis.
Most important of all, however, the
average Australian worker realises that
he is living in a period of phenomenal
growth, and if he is in the 30-40 age-
group he has seen the country’s secondary
industries grow remarkably, in a few
years, from practically nothing.
Socialisation would mean death to an
expanding economy such as this. It
would turn the Holden factory into an-
other Glen Davis, would drive overseas
capital out of the country and put a
stopper to full-employment.
It is useless for the A.L.P. to go to the
Australian electors with a policy that was
smuggled out of Moscow in 1921, when
the most productive section of the present
community was in swaddling-clothes or
schoolboy-knickers.
It is ludicrous to hear intelligent
Labor candidates attempt to justify
Socialism bn the public platform— not
because they believe in it, but because
they have signed a written pledge to stick
to it, sink or swim.
A revolt of the younger members is
badly needed in the A.L.P., a revolt that
■will bring to the top men under 50 whose
thinking is not conditioned by the
shearers’ strikes of the ’nineties or the
dole-queues of the ’thirties —men who
will throw the Socialist plank out and
substitute a progressive policy that will
benefit the national economy as well as
the individual worker.
After all, the Liberal party, under its
present Federal leader, was in the political
doldrums until it streamlined its organi-
sation and its policy. It also admitted
younger men to its Parliamentary ranks
and will soon, it is hoped, admit more of
them to Cabinet.
Until Labor does drop Socialisation it
will never govern in the Commonwealth
arena, and will remain a hopelessly and
dangerously weak Opposition.— Dick
Turpin (N.S.W.).
Nicholas Institute
A fine idea was fulfilled when Prime
Minister Menzies officially opened the
new Nicholas Institute for Medical and
Veterinary Research at Sassafras, in the
Dandenongs near Melbourne. The four-
story 70-roomed concrete mansion, set in
130 acres of timbered parklands, is the
former home of Aspro-king Nicholas and
is widely known as Burnham Beeches
mansion.
Part of the estate has been converted
into poultry-runs, sheep-pastures and
cattle-paddocks. The building itself has
been converted into laboratories, with
other rooms for research-equipment. In-
cluded also are administrative-offices,
research-libraries, lounge- and dining-
rooms, 20 acres of exotic gardens, a
heated swimming-pool and other recrea-
tional facilities for the staff.
Hothouses which formerly held the
Nicholas orchid-collection have been,
adapted 'for breeding-purposes and tropi-
cal experiments. Initial research will con-
centrate on coccidiosis, a scourge of
poultry, the aim being to discover methods
of ensuring resistance through nutrition.
There will also be research into para-
sitical diseases of sheep, and the part
played by nutrition in developing resis-
tance. There will be pharmacological re-
search with morphines and barbiturates.
The whole set-up has been described
as a stroke of imaginative genius. There
is certainly nothing like it elsewhere in
Australia, and the P.M. said he felt safe
in saying there was probably nothing like
it in the world today. High praise was
due to the generosity and public spirit
of the Nicholas family in establishing this
research-centre.
Men who have taken-over include
pharmacologists, bacteriologists, biolo-
gists, biochemists and veterinarians; they
will direct research in association with
Melbourne University and C.5.1.R.0.,
and with allied scientific institutions
throughout the world.— Allan B. (Vic.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 363
Across
I—Fool1 —Fool put on a scale. (6)
4—A bounder swears among the
dead. (8)
10 They decide not to encourage
diggers. (11)
11-—West one swallowed by me. (3)
12 Ducks met the Queen’s river-
gauges. (10)
13—Ornament to cover a joint with
the chief. (4)
15 Isn’t about the east course for
many Grand Nationals. (7)
16—Fatten the seals and suchlike?
(3)
20 —Odd to leave the shoddy jib. (3)
21 A girl and a boy in a proud old
craft embitter the age. (7)
24 Anything like Bikini is an
imposition. (5)
25 — Flautist put in with 24 black-
birds by this ratcatcher. (4, 5)
26 — Sport at St. Moritz. (3)
27 A 40-perch area on a twitch with
regard to a Greek poet. (11)
28 — Don’t produce so much beyond
compare. (8)
29 — Doesn’t work at all diligently,
but pants just the same! (6)
Down
1— Keynote put on Captain John-
son’s ancient citizens of Epirus.
(9)
2 Stinging fish clear of all charges
at first. (8)
3 A listener (over 50) spoils Harry,
Duke of Norfolk. (4-7)
5 Behaves in Spencerian style when
the seaman lugs one Teddy’s. (6)
6 A portion of the church peas
in a stew. (4)
7 The Doone country Othello who
has retired. (6)
8— Studies cookery. (5)
9 I interrupt monsieur across the
Channel; it is hazier. (7)
14 —Bile in the air with a parrot
guide to public opinion. (6, 4)
17 — Gets smaller guarantees of work-
ing conditions, pay, etc. (9)
18— A Garson’s yes-men. (7)
19 — Autocratic cop diets to get a
change of disposition. (8)
22 — Feature of a bung watch credit
is refused. (2, 4)
23 — Arms fruit in a steamer. (6)
24 — 1-across is in the country. (5)
27 —Pierce with this truant. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 362


*
6RG
BATTERIES
5
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
