

SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
GETTING THE GOOD OIL — PAGE 23
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77—No. 3969
Wednesday, March 7, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
BELFAST'S CATHEDRAL OF
ST. ANNE WILL BE A
WORTHY EDIFICE
/''VNE of the most impressive buildings
in Belfast is St. Anne’s Cathedral, a
dignified, modern building in Donegall
Street. The work of building began in
1899 to the designs of Sir Thomas Drew,
and it was built around the old parish
church of St. Anne, which was
demolished in 1903.
The completion of the Cathedral was
retarded by two world wars, and during
the second one it narrowly escaped
destruction in successive air raids which
cleared a wide space around the
building.
The architecture of St. Anne’s is
Romanesque in style ; the proportions are
massive, and even in its uncompleted
state it is an imposing structure. Plans
for the completion of the Cathedral
provide for transepts opening out at
right-angles to the Nave from the present
temporarily enclosed Choir. The tower,
210 feet in height, will contain the
Chapter House and Companile from
which a peal of bells will ring out across
the city.
An outstanding feature of St. Anne’s
is the West Front, illustrated here, which
was built as a memorial to those who
died during the 1914-18 war. Above the
three portals are symbolic sculptures.
Within the Cathedral is a beautiful
series of mosaics which took over seven
years to complete ; Ireland’s patron saint,
St. Patrick, is the subject of one;
another, consisting of 150,000 pieces and
forming the roof of the Baptistry, repre-
sents the Creation; whilst others are
superb examples of Celtic design.
The Nave is exceptionally wide (89
feet) and has some fine sculptural and
mosaic work. The aisles are paved with
three colours of Irish marble in intricate
designs and the carved pillars depict
various pursuits of mankind —agricul-
ture, industry, science, shipbuilding and
the arts, etc. A relief on the south wall
of the Nave commemorates Lord Carson
(d. 1935), a famous Ulsterman who led
a semi-militant organisation against the
Home Rule Bill, 1912-14.
No. 288: the Homeland Series by The House of Seppelt.


If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can train you to write Short
Stories, Articles, Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc., that will SELL.
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stotts Correspondence College |
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfeil
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —— --
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 556) AGE
BOOKHUNTEB, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obta
volume, let us find it for you —fiction, text 000,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only »
cessful.
The Red Page
JAMES MILSON
The Life and Times of James
Milson, by Roy H. Goddard (Georgian
House, Melbourne, 505.), is very well
printed on good paper, with excellent
and abundant maps and plentiful
photographs and drawings by Geoffrey
Ingleton. But as history, partly be-
cause Mr. Goddard at times uses the
method of the historical novelist—
inventing conversations and the like—
partly because of the lack of proper
documentation and partly because of
frequent obvious errors of fact, the
publishers’ recommendation of it as
“an important piece of work, not only
to the student of Australian history, but
for everyone who takes an interest in
the development of the Australian way
of life,” needs considerable qualifica-
tion.
Milson reached Australia in the
Albion on August 18, 1806.
Mr. Goddard should have produced
his evidence for his account of his life
in his boyhood years: that, “born of
substantial yeoman stock,” he was edu-
cated at the King’s School, Grantham,
the school of Isaac Newton; that with
wise encouragement from Banks,
botany and astronomy became his
scientific studies and that “in other
directions he unconsciously prepared
himself for life in a new land which
was to profit by his gifts.” And still
more does he need evidence for his
claim that “if Macarthur is the father
of the wool-industry... .then Milson
may be regarded as the father of the
milk-industry in Australia.”
The whole of the evidence which
Mr. Goddard offers to support this
claim is the fact that in 1826 a news-
paper mentioned that Milson’s cottage,
which was on the North Shore of
Sydney Harbor, where it was burnt
down, was called “the Milk House.”
In fact, the Blaxlands, Howe of
Glenlee and at least a dozen more
have greater and prior claims to be
called the founder of dairying. Milson
definitely had no hand in founding the
dairying-industry in Australia.
As to the assertion that Milson came
to Australia as a protege of Banks —
in Banks’s voluminous papers his name
is never mentioned. Indeed, his name
is never mentioned in any public
records until about 1819, save once in
the Sydney “Gazette” three years after
his arrival, when he advertised that he
was leaving the colony. If he held a
commission in the Duke of Rutland’s
yeomanry it is again incongruous with
his known early record in Australia.
According to Mr. Goddard, Milson
brought letters to Governor King,
whom he called on after he landed
and who “cordially reciprocated his
good feeling”; that thus “a firm tie of
friendship with the King family was
immediately established.” The con-
versations with King are recorded in
detail verbatim. King allegedly quotes
Banks as referring to Milson as “an
agriculturalist” and a “botanist.” He
supposedly advised him to colonise the
North Shore of the Harbor. And as
a climax to the story King is described
as sending for his secretary Mr. Blax-
cell—who in reality had ceased to be
his secretary some time before —and
making arrangements to give the new
arrival “assigned men” as servants,
including one named Martin Regan.
(“Make sure it is Martin Regan: I
have had him with me for a time and
he’s a likely fellow.”) But the fact
is that Mr. Regan did not arrive in the
colony until 13 years after this conver-
sation took place—he came in the Tyne
in 1819.
Mr. Goddard advises us that King
said to Blaxcell: “Prepare a promis-
sory grant of land in the name of
lames Milson and make it ready for
the Governor’s signature on his return
from the interior.” As King was no
longer Governor, he seems, to say the
least of it, to have been acting some-
what ultra vires.
However, the whole account of these
proceedings is apocryphal in every
detail. King was not in Sydney after
the Albion arrived. He was ill at
Parramatta Government House—so ill
that at the period he was supposed
to have communed with Milson he was
still in such a condition that he had
to get his wife to finish a letter to
Bligh in Sydney. He remained at
Parramatta for weeks afterwards. It
is improbable that he ever saw Milson.
Moreover, the promise of a grant
of the North Shore land to Milson
in 1806 is a myth. It is completely
contradicted by Milson’s own state-
ment in a memorial written to Sir
Ralph Darling in 1828, in which he
states that he was given a general ticket
of occupation over 300 acres of unoccu-
pied land on the North Shore in 1824
and that at the same time Sir Thomas
Brisbane was pleased to grant 50 acres
of land. In this document, dated
August 4, 1828, he states “that your
memorialist has resided upon the
North Shore for upwards of five years,
where he expended a considerable sum
on buildings and improving the land,
and, in fact, he first established it.”
Governor Bourke (H.R.A., I, Vol.
16) in 1833 makes it clear that Milson
had leased the Milson Point site from
Robert Campbell, and in August, 1828,
had tried to “jump” it, a proceeding
in which the Government refused to
acquiesce.
The first grant in that area was made
to one Lightfoot in 1794 ; and when
Milson established himself there the
North Shore around Neutral Bay and
what is now Lavender Bay was not the
terrifying wilderness that Mr. Goddard
suggests. There were quite a few
grantees and others there —Gore, Berry
and Wollstonecraft, et al.
The next chapter follows the fortunes
of Milson in 1806 to Parramatta, where
it is alleged he went on King’s advice to
consult the Reverend Samuel Marsden,
since “this enterprising clerical agri-
culturalist would be in a position to
advise him of the best place to obtain
colonial experience.” All the minutiae
of what he was told when he inquired
for Marsden are related with particu-
larity; also with particularity the author
describes how Marsden received the
traveller —the conversation is vamped
up from Marsden’s letters in the
Mitchell Library to other people—and
apprised him that “not far from here
on the Castle Hill Road is the energetic
widow Kilpack, who has successfully
managed the Kilpack farm since her
husband’s death. Her flocks are good
Spanish breeds and have been crossed
with Mr. Hassall’s sheep.”
Exactly why Mr. Marsden referred
to the lady as Mrs. Kilpack, seeing that
she had in 1799 married a man named
Higgins, and why he told Mr. Milson
(if he did) that her sheep were Spanish
sheep, when he himself had just made
a survey for Governor King of the wool-
producing sheep in the colony and must
have known that she hadn’t any, must
be left to the departed spirit of the
rough parson to explain. Eventually,
after passing through a very curious re-
bellion and taking a loyalist part
jn it of which nobody seems
to have heard till now, and after
establishing himself in a quarrying
business and as a shipping pro-
vidore at Neutral Bay, Milson is
said to have become an immediate
favorite with Governor Macquarie: —
Milson was in close contact with
Macquarie, acting as his confidential
land-steward and superintendent of
the Government farm on the site of
the present Botanic Gardens. Upon
agricultural matters Milson was able
to give Macquarie the benefit of his
practical experience in the colony,
and in view of his botanical know-
ledge he was allotted the task of
laying-out the Government House
grounds with trees and ornamental
shrubs. Supplies of seeds were
received from Kew Gardens, and a
number of young pines from Nor-
folk Island, successfully propagated
by Milson, were distributed to the
settlers.
This is no less extraordinary
than much that follows. Milson and
his wife are pictured as dining with
the Governor on March 6, 1810, when
the Dromedary caught fire in the
Harbor ; the Governor says nothing of
it in his journal.
When, in November, 1821, Milson
(allegedly) “accompanied Macquarie
on his last visit to the farmers and
settlers of Castle Hill and Toongabbie,”
the Governor must have known even
less about it. Actually, he was away
on the Hunter and at Port Macquarie
during November, and when he made
his last visit to Toongabbie and Castle
Hill in January, 1822, he certainly was
not knowingly accompanied by Mil-
son —his diaries are extant..
Mr. Goddard records the marriage
of Milson to Elizabeth Kilpack in St,
Philip’s Church on January 8, 1810,
and reproduces what purports to be a
copy of the marriage-certificate. Like
some other documents and inscriptions
which he purports to reproduce his
version does not square with the
original. It omits the description which
appears in the St. Philip’s Register after
Milson’s name: “servant or laborer.”
The only mentions in records of any
description of Milson during the period
of Macquarie’s rule are the certificates
of family marriages and births, the fact
that some damage was done to his
property by Government cattle, and a
record in the “Gazette” that he became
a member of the Bible Association in
1819. He did not sign the loyal address
with 1300 others on the accession of
George IV. He was not on the list
of those qualified to sit on juries. He
is not anywhere mentioned up to that
stage as having received any grant of
land. He has no attention from the
Bigge Commission either as a witness
or in the lists of inhabitants.
But he turns up as caretaker of
Government House, Sydney, in 1823,
with a very humble salary for a few
months in the time of Brisbane.
The Milsons have a fine record
among Australian colonists. The
original Milson and his descendants
have been famous as yachtsmen on
Sydney Harbor, as pioneering graziers
as far north as the Mt. Isa country.
Some of them are as familiar as the
post-office clock round Boulia to this
day. Their blood has produced fine
citizens, doctors, lawyers, men of dis-
tinction in every walk of life. In the
last war they produced one descendant
of outstanding gallantry.
James Milson himself has a special-
ised historical interest only as a
pioneer yachtsman. Otherwise he was
merely one of a small army of humble
immigrants of character who came out
to Australia with nothing and by
shrewd judgment and hard work rose
to affluence and founded useful
dynasties. During his first 42 years
in the colony there is, apart from
yachting, no reference to him of any
note in historical documentation save
thaf concerning his property and
personal interests.
M. H. Ellis.
Books on Their Travels
Rosemary Dobson’s latest book of
poems Child with a Cockatoo is to be
republished in the U.S.A. by the Uni-
versity of Michigan press—the first
time any Australian book of verse, so
far as this Page recalls, has ever been
taken-up in America.
Another Australian book on its way
to a world-audience is Norman Lind-
say’s classic The Magic Pudding, which
the Penguin people are putting into
their series for children, where M. G.
Skipper’s The Meeting-Pool is already
included.
The latest word on the Penguin
Australian Poetry anthology, which
was selected by Kenneth Slessor, R. G.
Howarth and John Thompson, is that
it is still on the schedule but is unlikely
to be printed before next January.
Essays by Marianne Moore
Miss Marianne Moore once re-
marked, casually, to a passing steam-
roller:—
As to butterflies
We can hardly conceive of one’s
attending you,
But to question the congruence of
the complement is vain,
If it exists . . .
and in her book of critical essays
Predilections (Faber) she is very much
like her own butterfly darting about
the steamrollers of T. S. Eliot, Ezra
Pound, Wallace Stevens, E. E. Cum-
mings and W. H. Auden; sometimes
fluttering around them in the oddest
possible manner:—
The Cantos are concerned with
books, arms, and men of unusual
genius. They imply that there is
nothing like the word-melody of the
Greek ; we have that of Latin also
—Vergil and Ovid. One’s ear can
learn from the Latin something of
quantity.... .The Cantos imply that
there is pleasure to be had from
Propertius and Catullus, that
Catullus is very winning. . . .It is
apparent that the Latin line is
quantitative . , .
but continually alighting, by an
instinct that seems happy chance, on
the drops of nectar in her authors . . .
whether it is the significance of the
switch from “pig” to “piggy” in
Edward Lear’s line “ ‘Your ring,’ said
the Piggy, ‘I will,’ ” or —appropriately
after the pig—a quotation from
Bacon’s prose, or a bit from the
“Cantos” about Venice: —
And at night they sang in the
gondolas
And in the barche with lanthorns;
The prows rose silver on silver
taking light in the darkness.
It would be naive to expect from
Miss Moore the long, well-organised,
smooth-flowing essays which other
writers submit when they publish their
criticism: she has always preferred to
fly zigzag. But there are perceptions;
there are appreciations and (of
Wallace Stevens and Cummings) over-
appreciations. There is quite a dis-
arming article on “The Dial” in its
great days when Pound, Eliot, Padraic
Colum, Yeats, Saintsbury, John
Cowper Powys and D. H. Lawrence
were among the contributors; and there
is at all times Miss Moore’s unique
prose-style:—
Decorum, generosity and genially
decorative improvements to the
proofsheets were matched in Gordon
Craig by an unsubservience justify-
ing the surname “crag” as synonym
for Craig. I recall Ezra Pound’s
precision as translator of Boris de
Schloezer —reinforced by an almost
horrendous explicitness on returned
proofs. But nothing supplants in
recollection the undozing linguistics
and scholarly resourcefulness of
Ellen Thayer as assistant editor;
occasional untender accusations from
(Continued on page 35)


41
GS,
\ i A\ X" 1 X .<iS>
' '•• *' V - r ~ "-' --t- , > - X A
SwSS
Bis
x
sw. . ;
JL3
\v *>■•■:
a
1
m
finw
: S
U
..
Whh
a
mzz
«w
•: ': ? (- i
o o
! mm
HK s ..
... . . . . .
• • ~ • . •
m
*
■ i
•'Jr *3
X
\t2 J 63
c
t-£-
ao 1
r
~ i*w* »
r
E
[
sjl:?!
•n
O
rt
B 0
ffl
«
♦
«
Design and build gour own furniture with
NEW EASYBUILT
Here’s Furniture that will grace the most modern home. Made of kiln-dried New Zealand
Radiata Pine, each unit is designed by experts and produced by experienced craftsmen.
Equally suitable for painting and polishing, its natural light colour and lustre
produce a wonderful beauty when stained. Moreover, because you can buy this furniture
in kit sets, piece by piece, or even leg by leg, and in widths 14\ inches and
20 inches, ready for home assembly, you can make your own designs to solve any
space or storage problem. Assembling the units, which are all pre-cut
and marked is simple. Screws and nails are supplied and the only tools required are screw
driver, hammer and a pail punch. Available on Our Very Easy Terms.
. :'f' w „,, .....
■'TRUTH IN ACVtRTISING''
Anthony Hordern;’
ILLUSTRATED BELOW ARE ONLY A FEW OF THE ALMOST ENDLESS
VARIETY OF FURNITURE COMBINATIONS WHICH CAN BE ACHIEVED
WITH 'EASYBUILT. DEMONSTRATED IN TOOL DEPT. TO-MORROW.
Lower Ground Floor, Pitt Street Level
CALL OR WRITE FOR BROCHURE AND PRICE LIST
320
321
322
323
324
32S
2 31
227 228 229
2 30
234
233 234 337 2 38
33l
333
336
339
Optical
Service
Offers a thor-
ough service to
those doubtful
over the condi-
tion of their eyes.
You are invited
to avail yourself
of our lay-by
service. It’s a
wonderful help
when it’s some-
thing you want
later. Just a
small deposit of
4/- in the £ se-
cures the goods
being offered.
We’ll reserve
what you want
(except furni-
ture) . Lay-By,
Second Floor.
Here is one of
the most appre-
ciated services.
Our famous
Clothing Hos-
pital does re-
pairs, invisible,
mending, alter-
ations, re - fit-
ting, re - lining,
etc., for your
clothes. Moder-
ate charges.
Also, we have a
service where
leather coats
and jackets are
re - conditioned.
Ground Floor,
George Street.
POSTAL ADDRESS IS BOX 2 712, G. P. 0., SYDNEY. TELEPHONE T. O.
8095 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3969
Wednesday , March 7, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victqria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
✓
COMING HOME TO ROOST
IN times of general economic hardship assoc-
iations that existed cordially even during the stress
of war are almost’bound to become strained ; and
it is part of a statesman’s duty, in the confusion and
irritation of world trade troubles, to be firm in his
country’s interests but to show* diplomatic considera-
tion of the rest of the world’s problems.
Mr. McEwen, handling the new, separated port-
folio of Trade in the present Menzies-Fadden
Government, is going to have an exacting job on
his hands, as will the Prime Minister himself.
Whereas the crisis of war brings, as a rule, national
unity, economic crises tend to bring national dis-
unity—and international friction. The late Prime
Minister Chifley it was who said that the most sen-
sitive nerve in the body was the hip-pocket nerve ;
and in days when pressure-groups spring-up
in' every city and township there are bound
to be economic nerve-storms around most of the
time that trade is on the down and costs are on the
rise.
Mr. McEwen has criticised the United. Kingdom
for having “impaired Australia’s opportunities to
sell food on U.K. markets” by “State trading which
operated to deny Australia the price-advantages
that would naturally have gone with post-war
shortages.”
During and since the war Australia has made
considerable concessions to Britain in the contract-
prices at which it has sold most primary products.
Generally the.prices have been below ©pen-market
parity. But Australia has not been alone in this.
Maoriland has had its meat and dairy-produce
contracts with the United Kingdom, and a number
of countries were signatories to the Wheat Agree-
ment, under which wheat was sold to wheat-import-
ing countries at below world-parity for some years.
In mo§t eases these term-contracts covered
the producers against ‘ the contingency'of a fall in
world prices ‘during their currency, and in any case
were part of ah insurance-policy against additional
world-wide inflation, as well as a contribution to
Western-world reconstruction after wartime suffer-
ing and disaster.
Although he has spoken critically about the
U.K. treatment of Australian exports, Mr. McEwen,
in a well-balanced address to the House of Repre-
sentatives, said the Australian Government’s policy
was not to rebuke anyone, but to meet the situation
of the moment and to plan to avoid any serious
dislocation of the economy.
The time has come in Australia, however,
where some sections of the community, if not
deserving of rebuke, should be told pretty bluntly
the facts of our economic situation, which are that
we are not producing enough, and at the same time
are spending too much. Britain suffers from a
similar problem, but in most instances it can under-
cut Australian manufacturers in world markets. It
works upwards of 44 hours a week ; Australia, a
reluctant 40.
Mr. McEwen, in commenting that the U.S.
method of giving-away surplus stocks of primary
produce was likely to hit Australia more than any
other country exporting land products, added that
it would be a wry paradox if the U.S.A., in giving
aid to others, should seriously impair Australia’s
natural trading opportunities, weaken its economy
and stultify its development. Already, he said,
some manufacturing countries were using subsidiel
and other devices to protect uneconomic agriculture
and similar primary industries.
“Our first problem,” said Mr. McEwen, “is to
produce more of what we can produce efficiently.
Our second problem is to be able to contrive rela-
tionships with the rest of the world which will permit
us to sell competitively what we can produce com-*
petitively.” The time had come when manufac-
turers had to develop an export-consciousness and
earn exchange if capital-goods, raw materials and
other producer-goods were to be imported in suffi-
cient quantities to keep the wheels of their own
industries turning.
The most important side of the “really serious”
balance-of-payments problem, said the Minister, was
to ensure that Australia had the right of entry into
overseas markets on fair terms. In respect of
import-restrictions at this end, “we will be fair in
our international trade practices. But all this will
not suffice unless overseas countries who sell to us
give our products reasonable access to their mar-
kets. Given this, and following the courses I
have outlined, progress and stability will be pro-
tected and assured.”
The position of Britain at the moment is that
for a long time, as basically a manufacturing
country, it has been obliged to subsidise local agri-
culture to economise on shipping in war-time
emergency and in post-war reconstruction.
It has, of course, been obvious that under the
strain of buying, even at a discount, in booifiing
external markets for primary-products, the United
Kingdom itself has had to practise the most rigid
economy. In the immediate post-war years, when
its greatest Continental competitors were laid low,
it had to keep wages down to a limit and hours up
to a maximum and freights as low as possible in
order to live. It had to get along somehow while
its supposed allies, and even its Dominions —in
which Dr. Evatt was the leader of the hunt —yelled
to free its outposts of its “oppressive colonialism” in
every aspect except defence of which they, includ-
ing Australia up to 1950, carried only the most
meagre share.
For over 10 years since the war the United
Kingdom has been compelled to send its young
conscripts, badly needed in the home labor-market,
abroad to defend such places as Singapore and
Malaya and the seas around India and Ceylon and
the trade-routes through the Mediterranean, which
other people ought largely to be defending.
Circumstances are now catching up with the
United Kingdom. The high cost of its imports has
meant high cost-of-living. Rising cost-of-living
and the example of other countries has brought into
its economy the poison of go-slow and wage-de-
mands which, while they may be just enough in the
face of circumstances, inevitably mean rises in the
cost of British export-goods that turn potential
custom away.
Australians are not yet treating the situation
on a realistic basis. Our productivity is too low and
our costs are too high. But neither Dr. Evatt nor
Mr. Cahill will admit this, and it makes it difficult
for politicians of another color to tell the people the
truth. And none of the eight economists who issued
a manifesto a few weeks ago mentioned the words
“production” or “productivity” anywhere in his
diagnosis or prescription.
Meanwhile the danger-signs are up in the United
Kingdom. The harassed little country, which is
just now staying out of the world wheat agreement
for realistic reasons which sound unanswerable in
London, though they may not to farmers in the
Antipodes, has found itself forced to raise defence-
pay and service-pensions and at the same time cut
its defence-programme and admit that the economic
position makes it impossible to do what should be
done.
Britain’s problems are not yet intimately, ours.
But Britain is such a large market for Australian
goods that they very soon will be, as we are likely
to know to our cost.
The Future of Wheat
WHEAT, Australia’s second-most-important export
item, is in the news again, with the refusal of Britain
to re-enter the International Wheat Agreement be-
cause it makes no provision for restriction of acreage
or disposal of existing surpluses.
The agreement, which first came into force in
August, 1949, is an attempt to equate the needs
and desires of a large number of countries which
import wheat with those of the exporting countries,
of which the chief are the United States, Canada and
Australia. The first agreement was signed by 37
importing nations and the three abovementioned
exporters, plus Uruguay and France. Russia and
Argentina (exporters) remained outside the agree-
ment ; so did Germany and Japan (importers).
The exporting nations agreed for a period of
four years to sell specified minimum quantities of
wheat each year, if required to do so by the import-
ing nations, at the maximum price quoted in the
agreement. Similarly, if required to do so by the
exporters, the importing nations were obliged to
buy specified quantities at the minimum price for
the relevant year.
All in all the agreement was one of those tidy
schemes which look as if they will suit all parties.
It answered the requirements of double-entry book-
keeping in that when the guaranteed quotas of the
four exporting nations were added-up they exactly
balanced the total quotas of the 40-odd importing
nations. But that is not the same as saying that
the needs of the importing countries tallied with the
available surplus of the exporters.
No amount of international goodwill and co-
operation can order the seasons and crops so as to
guarantee that. In the beginning the International
Wheat Agreement worked fairly smoothly, but by
the time it came up for renewal in 1953 the condi-
tions of world-shortage which had dominated think-
ing in the immediate postwar years had gone, and
the conference met in the knowledge that there were
vast carryover stocks of wheat in Canada and
America and, to a lesser degree, in Australia.
Britain, the chief importing nation, with a
shrewd eye cast on the accumulated stocks, pro-
tested that the proposed price in the new agreement
was too high and withdrew from the scheme. As
Britain’s quota had been 178 million bushels, this
meant a drastic reduction in the export quotas of
the producing countries. As a result, the quantity
of wheat to be handled under the agreement
was reduced from 581 million bushels in 1952-53
to 422 million bushels in 1953-54. The subsequent
withdrawal of Italy and Sweden from the scheme,
and the later return of Italy on a reduced quota,
brought the figure down to 393 million. Of this,
Australia’s export quota was 45 million bushels,
compared with 89 million bushels under the earlier
scheme.
Under the old agreement the maximum price
was 16s. 6d. a bushel; under the 1953 agreement it
was 18s. with a minimum of 13s. lOd. or
14s. 9d., depending on country of origin.
The reason for the increase was clear enough.
In the period 1949-53 all quota-wheat was sold at
the maximum price. The importing countries were
only too willing to take it at that price, as the rate
for “free” wheat was much higher ; for the last
year of the period Australian “free” wheat averaged
21s. 2d. a bushel.
By 1953-54, however, the effect of the cairy-
over stocks began to be felt, as all exporting
countries had bumper harvests.
In consequence, with abundant “free” wheat
available, the importing countries were not so eager
to take their full quotas of I.W.A. wheat. The
scheme handled not much more than half the
agreed quantity. Naturally in these circumstances
the maximum price became a dead-letter. As far
as Australian exports are concerned there has been
no distinction in the price of I.W.A. and
“free” wheat since August, 1953. The price
dropped progressively from 18s. 3d. in August, 1953,
to 14s. 6d. in September, 1954. It remained at that
price for 12 months, but towards the end of last
year fell further, to 13s. 4d.
Meanwhile, world-stocks of wheat continued to
mount. At the close of the 1954-55 season America
held 1020 million bushels, or considerably more
than its average annual production ; Canada held
494 million bushels, approximately a full year’s
harvest; Australia’s total was 95 million bushels—
more than half a crop. In addition, Argentina, a
competitor outside the 1.W.A., had 60 million
bushels.
In the aggregate these stocks represent more
than two years’ export-requirements at current rates.
When this is taken into consideration Britain’s
abstention from the scheme is* not surprising ; the
remarkable thing is that more importing countries
have not followed the same course.
World-production of wheat has increased by
20 per cent, in comparison with prewar years, and,
although population has also increased considerably,
consumption has lagged behind production. Many
countries which imported large quantities of wheat
before the war now grow all or most of their re-
quirements ; some have even become small ex-
porters. The United Kingdom’s wheat crop in the
years 1935-39 supplied, on the average, 23 per cent,
of the country’s needs ; today it supplies 34 percent.
This is due partly to the increased acreage sown as
a result of Government subsidy and partly to an
improvement in the yield per acre. The corres-
ponding reduction in imports means a T definite loss
to the exporting countries, although Britain,
whether inside or outside 1.W.A., is still the largest
single buyer of wheat.
Australia’s position in the wheat-world is
unique in that it produces less than 3 per cent, of
the total crop, but supplies round about 14 per cent,
of the exports. The acreage sown in recent years
is about 22. per cent, less than the average of the
five years to 1938-39, so this country cannot be
accused of wildly overproducing wheat since the
war. However, a succession of good seasons and
other factors have resulted in improved yields, so
that the crop for every year since the war has been
bigger than the prewar average.
Last year Britain was our best wheat customer,
taking 19 million bushels (other principal buyers
were India, 17 million bushels; New Zealand,
eight million; Germany, five million; Japan, two
million ; Eire, two million ; Holland, two million.).
Canada’s share of the British market was, however,
many times greater than ours—in 1954 between
six and seven times as great. Canada’s bigger crop
and shorter sea-haul are a part-explanation of this,
but the more important factor is the difference in
quality of the grain. British millers prefer the hard
wheat supplied by Canada.
Even when the huge world-stocks are taken into
consideration there seems no case at present for
a drastic reduction in Australian sowing. But
some thought might well be given to the growing of
definite types of wheat for definite markets. This
would involve the introduction of a grading system
for wheat and the scrapping of the time-honored
f.a.q. system. Many men in the industry think this
change is long overdue.


“AND SOME FELL ON STONY GROUND.....”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Elections
The two State elections held on Satur-
day illustrated current trends, though
the result in N.S.W., even allowing for the
solid swing from “Labor,” showed that
too many Australians still put party-
loyalty above political decency.
Mr. Playford, in South Australia, with
redistributed electorates, came back for
another three years with 21 seats to
“Labor’s” 15, plus three Independents.
“Labor” will possibly have won a seat-
one from the Government in exchange
for Chaffey, won by the Government. At
any rate, Playford will have another three
years in office with a workable majority
—2l to 15 Labor and 3 Independents.
His position is as solid as a rock and
when he next goes to the polls, if he
intends to continue, he will have been
21 years in office.
In N.S.W. it was a different kind
of election. The “Labor” party had
been in office for 15 years, under three
Premiers. The first two of the series had
left office to share in party-spoils through
fat appointments, for which neither was
suited. The residue-leader, Mr. Cahill,
went to the country with a party split
into ardent Communist supporters and
less ardent anti-Communist supporters ;
in fact, the most cynical collection of
opportunists and careerists of the devil-
take-the-hindmost type that had ever
gone to the polls in N.S.W.
The Federal leader of the party, after
one furtive appearance with Mr. Cahill,
kept away from the campaign despite all
challenges, and the internal organisation
of the party worked in sections, some
of whom were more anxious to cut the
throats of Industrial Groupers than to
beat the Liberals and Country party.
No Government has ever gone to the
country, even in N.S.W., carrying
such a burden of smells and incom-
petence. It went charged openly by the
press with squandering, political dis-
honesty and corruption, and it ran away
from the accusations, most of which
would have sent a politically honest
Premier to the courts to defend his repu-
tation and that of his Ministers. It de-
pended for defence against the over-
whelming attack, in which nearly the
whole of the press joined, on the arrange-
ment of the electorates planned in ad-
vance to assure that the industrial districts
would be the controlling factor, and that
the full pressure of union-leadership
could be brought to bear.
That, in the circumstances, there is
more than an even chance that Cahill
and his sorry pack of followers will still
be able to govern with the help of the
Speaker and one or two others is a chal-
lenge to the State. One would have
expected in a decent democracy, especi-
ally in view of the fresh vigor with which
Mr. Morton conducted the Liberal cam-
paign, that such a boiling of political
iniquity would have been swept out of
office on to the garbage-heap on a non-
party vote.
However, on the whole, considering
the nature of the electoral arrangements
and the weight of union pressure which
is organised to intimidate the workers of
the compulsory-union State, and par-
ticularly their wives and families, the
result can be counted as satisfactory.
“Labor” has definitely lost nine seats, with
four or five, in which the result was on a
razor-edge when this was written, still
doubtful.
The Government which went to the
polls with 56 seats of its own, plus two
Independent “Labor” men, against a com-
bined Opposition of 36, will be lucky if
it can hold office with the support of
Mr. Clive Evatt, whose policy is one of
hobnobbing with the Communists and
who will therefore follow Jock Garden’s
famous Leninist injunction to his fol-
lowers in respect of Mr. Lang, and “sup-
port Cahill as the rope supports the
hanged man.”
ITie Premier, will, of course, have to
find a Speaker, and he will go into power
with open war in progress between Left-
and Right-wings for control of the
Ministry. Moreover, he will face an
Opposition which is not only stronger in
numbers, but in quality. The advent of
Mr. Davis Hughes, who has won Armi-
dale, will very greatly strengthen the
Country party, which contains a bunch of
hardworking young members of great
promise. The election of F. O. J. Purdue,
as an Independent in Waratah, which
“Labor” won last time by 12,000-odd
votes to 5700, is an event which has
double significance. Mr. Purdue is a
man of great local stature, an ex-Lord
Mayor of Newcastle, and is likely to
snatch the championship of the northern
industrial area from the hands of the
feeble carpet-baggers who represent
“Labor” there. He is a man who will
almost certainly become a major figure in
the House by sheer force of personality
and likeableness.
On the whole, the “Labor” Ministry
has a rough time ahead. It can’t stand-up
to criticism, and even the advent of a
couple of capable opponents at the last
election in the Legislative Council
embarrassed it beyond measure.
It has had no assets hitherto save a big
stick represented by an overwhelming and
servile majority in the Parliament. To
survive as approximately the equal in
strength with the Opposition will be diffi-
cult, if not impossible. If its existence
depended on its ability or its merits it
would collapse at once.
The Bayard of Brisbane
“Labor” political scenes have exhibited
lively vignettes in the past week: Mr.
Cahill thrashing about in the toils of the
unanswerable critics of his political ethics
in N. S. Wales, while Dr. Evatt gives a
splendid display in the role of a chame-
leon ; Mr. Chamberlain pacing the boards
as an ardent patriot, reformer and hater
of careerists in W.A., where there are still
some political morals, while presiding
over the greatest aggregation of soulless
careerists in history in their task of
implementing the Communist-inspired
Hobart Conference programme for the
destruction of Australian defence.
On the whole, however, the show has
been stolen by Messrs. Bukowski, Boland
and Gair in their sensational piece, “Did
She Fall or Was She Pushed?”, played to
a cynical audience at the Queensland
Labor-party Conference by a large cast
of sleek place-hunters in Mackay.
Mr. Gair is the hero of all the scenes.
Ostensibly he went to the conference as
a rebel, the leader of a sternly righteous
Cabinet, unanimous to the last man in its
determination to do the right thing and
not be forced into the position of offering
an election bribe of three weeks’
annual holiday on full pay to every elector
in Quensland on the eve of the election.
Never “let it be said that Mr. Gair
would do such an unethical thing unless
dragged by the scruff of the neck to the
hustings while the promise was squeezed
out of him like the pips out of a lemon.
It might even have been that he was
really reluctant to take the step which
was being forced on him, for it affected
his civil-service costs and his Budget;
and in any case it was quite unnecessary
from an electioneering point of view,
because the Queensland electorates are
so gerrymandered that he could scarcely
lose so long as he had the “Labor” label
on him.
The “battle” at Mackay centred round
the election of Queensland Central Execu-
tive, and it was really a battle for con-
trol of the party by the Communist-
allied elements. Before the eleqtion, to
clear the way and test voting-strength,
somebody put forward a motion for the
formation inside the movement of an
agency to fight Communists in the unions.
This being defeated with applause, the
poll was taken and resulted in a victory
for what is called “the Industrial Wing”
in Queensland —this means the Com-
munist-inspired wing opposed to the
industrial-group idea.
The strange thing is that both sides
nominated Mr. Gair and his Deputy
Premier, Mr. Duggan, for the executive,
so that he and Mr. Duggan and a faith-
ful follower, Dr. Dittmer, M.L.A. for
Mt. Gravatt, were elected, presumably
acquiescing in the Industrial Wing policy
that only three politicians should now sit
on the executive. Mr. Walsh, the Treas-
urer, who has sat on the Executive for
15 years, and Mr. Power, the Attorney-
General, were defeated, the one polling
only 50 votes out of 134 and the other 47.
The executive acquired a representative
of the F.E.D.F.A., which has just been
fined in the south for carrying on an
illegal strike and whiqh recently admitted
Comrade Ernie Thornton, of forged
ballot-paper fame, to membership with
due adulation. It also gains a representa-
tive of the Postal Workers’ Union, a
Leftist-inclined body which would be still
Communist-run in some States if the
Commonwealth secret ballot legislation
would allow ; one from the Boilermakers,
a Communist-led union ; also one from
the Leftist A.E.U. and the newly-Leftist
A.W.U.
It is quite clear that Mr. Gair, the
Archangel of Moderation, is in queer
company and has queer supporters, who
immediately proclaimed a motion that
he should introduce the three-weeks’
holiday provision by legislation pronto
in the next session. Mr. Gair, in whom
the Communist-wing must have had
great confidence, since the voting-figure
for his election to the Q.C.E. showed that
he had received nearly 80 of their votes,
against 50 of his “own” group’s, shouted
that he would resign if a resolution were
passed giving him orders. They passed
it. The world waited finger-on-lip for
Mr. Gair to use Parliament’s powers of
privilege and drag the impudent bullies
of the Legislature to the Bar of the
House for punishment.
All he did was to compromise. He
won’t introduce the bill at once —only,
it seems, within this year.
And now Brisbane’s ex-Lord Mayor
Frank Roberts, formerly Labor M.L.A.
for Nundah, intends to oppose the
Premier as an Independent, on the issue
of whether the Government should
“govern or be governed.”
Sidney Myer's Memorial
Before Sidney Myer died in Melbourne
he said: “Happiness is in spiritual
things” ; and he bequeathed a large charit-
able trust-account, part of which was to
be devoted to providing music for the
people. Up to date £400,000 has been
spent, most of it in rather an uninspiring
manner —as on Sunday free concerts
which have seldom been of a high order.
Now, however, it is to be devoted to a
much more distinguished project —a
£lOO,OOO music-bowl, equal to the world’s
best, to be built on ten acres in the
Domain and admirably situated overlook-
ing the Yarra. Free opera, orchestral
concerts, ballet and drama can be there
enacted, and it is a pity it won’t be com-
pleted in time for the Olympic Games
because, at any rate in magnitude, it will
rival the Olympia of the ancient Greeks,
since there will be seating for 10,000
people and landscaped slopes and lawns
which will accommodate a quarter of a
million. The torpedo-shaped stage will
have room for 250 musicians, actors or
ballerinas, and amplification will carry
the sound of their instruments and voices
over a half-mile radius —probably
further. The experts of the C.5.1.R.0.
have guaranteed the acoustics.
There will be all the necessary equip-
ment and amenities like milk-bars, kiosks
and tea- and coffee-rooms. If Victorians
could be trained to civilised
habits there is no reason why eventually
open-air restaurants on the European
model couldn’t be added.
So Sidney Myer isn’t likely to be for-
gotten, any more than Alfred Felton. It
all depends on what use is made of his
benefaction. A committee of manage-
ment representing cultural interests,
including the City Council, is to be
set up to supervise and control the use
of the bowl, and it is to be hoped they
will make a better job of it than the
Felton trustees have lately made of
Felton’s bequest. Felton stipulated that
only works calculated to elevate the
public taste were, to be bought. If the
Myer committee follows the lead recently
given by the Gallery trustees with some
of their acquisitions, the music-bowl
may yet resound with the caterwaulings
of crooners and negro entertainers.
Manufacturing Outlook
“In the ACT”: In recent boom years
many of Australia’s manufacturing indus-
tries have been disinclined to listen to
advice. Many of them have felt that it
wasn’t necessary, and that things would
continue to be good for ever, despite the
high turnover in manpower, and the
loss of efficiency and production appar-
ently inevitable under full and overfull
employment.
Now, with the short-range prospects a
little grim, despite the certainty of mag-
nificent opportunities later (if the imme-
diate difficulties are overcome), there is
more disposition to listen to the experts.
This, of course, is a tendency not con-
fined to manufacturers. Even Govern-
ments have been known to seek some
advice, and perhaps a little bolstering or
readjustment of policies.
The immediate certainty is that import-
restrictions will reduce the £5lO million
or so which was spent in 1954-5 for the
importation of materials, plant and com-
ponents for the use of manufacturing
industries. Total imports of all kinds in
that year amounted to £847 million f.0.b.,
and that figure must be reduced, under
the present policy, by £2OO million in the
approaching year of 1956-7.
This in turn must mean a downward
revision of some manufacturing schedules,
and consequently some temporary unem-
ployment. The experts in Canberra are
warning of this, while offering useful
advice on how to lessen the blow and
reduce the duration of its effects. They
are saying to manufacturers that the
slowing-down in development will be
general unless manufacturers are willing
and able to earn more export income for
themselves on a substantial scale. To be
significantly useful, it is being stated by
informed authority, the amount of export-
earnings needed from manufacturing
should be a minimum of £lOO million a
year, or about ten times export earnings
from manufactures today. Indeed, it is
being suggested, we may be on the thres-
hold of a state of affairs where the prin-
cipal preoccupation of manufacturers will
not be protection of the internal market,
however important that is, but rather the
availability of export markets.
There has been a remarkable develop-
ment in manufacturing recently, and it is
as well for the economy . that it has
occurred. The annual level of invest-
ment has reached £2OO million, and the
total investment in new capital resources
in manufacturing industries has amounted
to £l5OO million since 1945. Since 1949
the volume of factory output has in-
creased by more than 40 per cent., com-
pared with a factory-employment increase
of only 10 per cent., which suggests that
efficiency is really increasing, even if not
so fast as in the United States, and with
less activity in replacement of obsolescent
machinery and processes.
Industry now faces the challenge of
understanding the full implications of all
aspects of the economy, including'full
employment and national development.
Thar He Blows!
Among “Labor’s” new recruits to the
Federal Parliament as a result of the
anti-Communist split in Victoria was one
who was a little out of the ordinary run
of A.L.P. candidates. He was not a
union official; he had not acted as sec-
retary to a “Labor” Minister, and he was
neither a lawyer nor a journalist.
J. F. Cairns, who defeated S. M. Keon
for the Yarra seat last December, held
till then the post of lecturer in economics
at Melbourne University. An economist
is something the Federal “Labor” party
could well find room for, if only for the
rank-and-file to turn to for guidance when
they are trying to unravel and reconcile
the rival economic theories of Evatt,
Calwell, Ward, Dan Curtin and other
masters.
Mr. Cairns, judging by his remarks in
the Address-in-Reply debate, is a Socia-
list, but not a doctrinaire Socialist. At
least, he claims that his party doesn’t
believe in socialisation “under any and
all circumstances; it believes in sociali-
sation when justified by public interest,
and it believes that public interest de-
mands much socialisation.” This appears
to mean that the new member supports
the “watered-down” interpretation of the
socialisation objective, but that he wants
it watered-down with heavy-water.
Proceeding from the general to the par-
ticular, Cairns cited whaling as “a classic
example of services that are essential to
the community but which could not be
conducted profitably and successfully by
private enterprise.” The statement is not
likely to enhance Cairns’s reputation
either as an economist or a logician. By
what reckoning does he make whaling an
essential service? Almost the entire pro-
duct of the whaling-stations is exported,
so that the industry is a useful earner of
foreign exchange, but that doesn’t make
it any more an essential industry than is
crayfish-trapping, another useful dollar-
earner, which so far no one has suggested
nationalising.
As evidence of the inability of private
enterprise to carry-on whaling success-
fully, Cairns quotes the indiscriminate
slaughter of whales a century ago:
Because of the improvident plundering of
the seas around Australia, the whaling-
industry, which was a very successful and
important industry from 1808 or 1809 to
1840 or 1850, disappeared as an industry.
Indisputable, but hardly an argument
against private whalers working under
present-day conditions of strict inter-
national regulation!
The former economist proceeds:
Another justification for public enter-
prise is the conservation of resources.
Whaling is a special example. No more
than six stations can operate [on the Aus-
tralian coast]. We know that private
whalers are out to get the maximum kill,
and that depletion of whale-stock follows
as a likely consequence.
This is utter nonsense. The five private
whaling-stations on the Australian coast,
like the Government station at Carnarvon
(W.A.), are allotted a quota each season.
This quota must not be exceeded, and
there has been no suggestion that any
station has tried to do so.
The Whaling Commission has per-
formed a very useful service in helping
to demonstrate that whaling can be con-
ducted profitably in Australian waters.
But there is no more reason for a Gov-
ernment to permanently engage in whal-
ing than there is for it to run sheep-
stations or butchers’ shops. The decision
to dispose of the Commonwealth whaling-
plant is therefore quite logical. Which is
more than can be said for Mr. Cairns s
arguments against it


POLITICAL POINTS
Saturday was touch-and-go for Cahill.
One more touch and he’d have gone.
Votes yet to be counted could still supply
the touch.
• •
That the alarm evident in N. S. Wales
“Labor” camp last week was well justi-
fied was shown by Saturday’s poll. As
soon as the first batches of votes were
hoisted in the tally-room it was apparent
that a swing against the Cahills was “on.”
As the count progressed it became obvi-
ous that the Government had lost several
seats ; the only question was whether it
would lose sufficient to put it out of
office. The question was still unanswered
when counting closed for the night and
the few additional votes checked on Sun-
day gave little further information.
• •
“Labor” went to the polls with 56 seats
against a combined Liberal-Country-party
tally of 36. There were also two Inde-
pendent “Labor” members who, through-
out the last Parliament, had generally
supported “Labor.” The Opposition
parties had to win 12 seats to oust the
Government.
On the weekend tally they seemed to
be sure of seven gains and were still well
in the race in a further five. In addition,
“Labor” had lost one seat, Waratah, to
an Independent (F. O. Purdue, a former
Lord Mayor of Newcastle).
• •
Seats which could be marked as
Liberal gains were Coogee, Drummoyne,
George’s River, Parramatta and Suther-
land, while the Country party recovered
Armidale and Dubbo, lost in 1953.
Those in doubt were Concord, Mudgee,
North Sydney, Ryde and Young. They
were still in doubt when this went to the
printer. It seemed that in all five seats
the result would depend on absent votes
and (in all except Ryde) on the distribu-
tion of preferences.
Excluding the five seats, the position on
Monday was: “Labor,” 44 ; Independent
“Labor,” 1 ; Liberals, 27; Country
party, 16; Independent, 1. With Arm-
strong’s support “Labor” thus needed to
win three of the doubtfuls to retain
office.
• •
At no time during the count did any
liberal or Country-party seat appear to
be in danger; the Opposition vote im-
proved in every electorate.
• •
PI ay ford’s L.C.L. Government remains
in power in South Australia after Satur-
day’s election, with virtually the same
majority as in the last Parliament. With
preferences to decide the issue in Chaffey,
Ridley and Wallaroo and with several
hundred votes still to come in Burra, the
position on Monday was: Liberal-
Country-League, 19; “Labor,” 15;
Independent, 1.
Independents seemed most likely to
win Burra and Ridley ; the Government
Chaffey and Wallaroo. In both Chaffey
and Ridley the “Labor” candidate will
be the man excluded ; in the former seat
the official A.L.P. card gave second-prefs.
to the L.C.L. candidate, but in Ridley
the Independent, T. C. Stott, one of the
Australian delegates to the International
Wheat Conference in Geneva, was
favored. On the above reckoning the
net result of the election would be that
“Labor” improved its representation in
the old Parliament by one seat at the
expense of an Independent.
Anti-Communist “Labor” candidates
polled very poorly. Only in Port Adelaide
and Edwardstown, where there were no
L.C.L. candidates, did they collect any-
thing like a respectable tally.
• •
Bolte’s L.C.P. Government survived a
challenge to its narrow majority in the
Victorian Assembly on Saturday by
winning the Mornington by-election.
Final figures at close of counting: R. C.
Dunstan (L.C.P.), 13,766; H. C. ThorneU
(“Labor”), 7367. These figures are sub-
stantially the same as were recorded for
the two parties at the general election
last May.
L.C.P. candidate V. O. Dickie also won
the Legislative Council by-election for
Ballarat—or will when the preferences
of the Anti-Communist are distributed.
This poll, too, was a vital one. Bolte
needed the seat to retain the majority he
holds (with Country-party support) in the
Council.
• •
It's no use trying to excuse the atom-
bomb by suggesting sun-spots as the cause
of Sydney’s abnormal weather. Obvi-
ously the atom-bomb caused the sun-
spots.
• «
“Stromlo”: So “Labor” won’t join the
Foreign Affairs Committee because it
thinks the Government doesn’t like its
foreign policy! It may be right there,
but Senator John Gorton (Vic.) probably
hit on the real reason when he said
that the party feared that any of its mem-
bers who joined the committee, and thus
had the opportunity of informing their
minds on foreign policy by hearing the
confidential evidence tendered to it in
camera, would probably soon realise the
fallacies of their party’s own “policy.”
Education in facts could be a dangerous
thing for the Hobart theorists and their
followers who are being deliberately pre-
vented from securing it.
* •
Instead of showing so much interest in
whales last week in Canberra, “Labor”
“I had a terrible feeling for a moment, Bert, that I was going down
for the third and last time.”
should have been looking for Jonahs in
their own midst.
• •
Liberal gains on Saturday were a
personal triumph for Pat Morton, who
took over the leadership of the party only
five months ago, when it seemed to have
less chance of gaining the confidence of
the electors than at any time in several
years. By vigorous and forthright
methods he led the party in a fighting
campaign which had “Labor” on the
defensive from the start, and brought the
Opposition within an ace of victory.
Morton’s outstanding qualities are
honesty and sincerity—which apparently
still count for something in New South
Wales, even after 15 years of cynical
misgovernment.
• •
A pres le Gair ?
• o
Raising of the Red Flag by the Rus-
sians on Australian Antarctic Territory
did not indicate any Soviet intention of
claiming territory, according to External
Affairs Minister Casey. But does Moscow
concur?
• •
A 64-dollar question: Were Clive
Evatt’s well-wishers, who on Monday
were congratulating him on the imminent
offer of a Supreme Court judgeship, a bit
precipitate?
• •
Former members who return to N.S.W.
Assembly as a result of the swing are D.
Hughes, who won Armidale for the
Country party in 1950 and lost it to J. E.
Cahill by 13 votes in 1953 ; Liberal K.
Ellis, member for Coogee 1948-53, now
back again at the old address; D. D.
Cross, Liberal member for Kogarah
1948-53, now member for George’s
River, where one of the biggest swings of
the election occurred. In 1953 F. O’Neill
(“Labor”) won by 3600 votes; on Satur-
day he trailed Cross by 1800. Even con-
ceding “Labor” the 759 votes polled by
the Communist candidate on Saturday,
this is still a very big swing.
• •
Barnyard talk in the Reps.:
Sir Arthur Fadden (in answer to a ques-
tion): I point out that at the 30th June, 1953,
the unexpended balance of Commonwealth aid
road-funds granted to Western Australia by
the Australian Government totalled £373,000.
Mr. Ward: Chicken-feed!
Fadden: I agree, but the honorable member
will see how the chicken has grown to a rooster.
At the 30th June, 1954, the unexpended
balance amounted to £487,000.
Ward: Still chicken-feed.
Fadden: Still chicken-feed. Now we come
to the turkey. By the 30th June, 1955, the
unexpended balance had increased to £1,163,000.
• •
One result of the series of man-to-man
chats arranged by the Prime Minister last
October was an undertaking by hire-
purchase companies to raise the minimum
deposit on motor-vehicles to one-third.
Last week the same people announced
without any chats with the P.M. or other
Government representative —-that
“vehicles for commercial, business and
farm purposes” should be excluded from
the rule. As “business” is one of the
most elastic words in the car-trader’s
vocabulary this virtually meant the end
of the one-third deposit—and of the
hopes placed upon its value as a curb on
inflation.
On Friday, after the announcement had
met with a rather hostile reception from
the press and a section of the h.-p. trade,
the committee responsible issued a further
statement saying that the recommenda-
tion would first be submitted to all h.-p.
companies. If these approved, an
approach would be made to the P.M. to
seek his approval for the proposed altera-
tion. That certainly seems a better way
of doing things.
Simultaneously with this announce-
ment, figures issued by the Common-
wealth Statistician showed that h.-p.
business for the December quarter in-
creased by 7 per cent. As the companies
had agreed to limit expansion to 10 per
cent, for the nine months ending June
30 next, some heavy brake-work will be
needed if the undertaking is to be kept.
• •
Independent N-.S.W. “Labor” member
Chalmers, who switched from Hartley to
Nepean, might have done better had he
stayed put. Nepean gave him fewer than
1400 votes. In Hartley, W. Z. Black,
who took over the Ind. “Lab.” role from
Chalmers, is running close to official
“Labor” man Weekes, with the prefs. of
two Independents and a Communist to
decide the issue.
Odds seem slightly in favor of Black.
In Kahibah, T. Armstrong, the other
Independent Laborite, should retain the
seat on Liberal prefs.
• •
Bathurst seems to be bitten by the
Greater Metropolis bug. Its municipal
council is seeking to absorb two areas,
each of about 20,000 acres, from the
Abercrombie and Turon shires. Claim-
ing that the change would lose them 25
per cent, and 12£ per cent, respectively
of their revenues, the two shires are pre-
senting a joint case when the commis-
sioner appointed by the Local Govern-
ment Department begins his inquiry at
the end of April.
• •
A daylight-express train-service be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne will be
introduced on March 26. Diesel loco-
motives and air-conditioned carriages
with buffet-cars will be used, and the
service will operate three times a week
in each direction. Victorian railways are
negotiating for a similar service between
Melbourne and Adelaide.
• •
Holland claims the doubtful honor of
being the most densely populated country
in the world. The score at January 1
was 10,821,111, which, for Holland’s land
area of 12,500 square miles, works out at
866 persons to the square mile. Those
large Dutch families which have come to
Australia under the migration scheme
must be finding the unaccustomed elbow-
room a change.
• •
“Viewer”: Apparently TV is going to
be big business, even in the comparatively
small market offered by Australia. Im-
port-licences issued so far have been for
£2\ million, of which the national
stations accounted for one-third and
commercial interests two-thirds. Most
of the licences were for transmitting- and
studio-equipment. Let’s hope we viewers
get our money’s-worth.
Melbourne’s female Nimrods struck
their first snag when a lightning-strike
held-up trams on five main Melbourne
routes because two instructor-drivers
refused to train conductresses in tram-
driving. After giving one girl a try-out
in traffic a male driver refused to take her
out again. Tramways-union secretary
O’Shea, who raised no objection to
women drivers so long as they were paid
the same wage as men, interviewed chair-
man Risson, but was unable to shake the
determination of the driver.
• •
“Emtee”: At the Tasmanian A.L.P.
Conference Premier Cosgrove shook the
dust off bank-nationalisation, and
blamed banks for encouraging higher in-
terest-rates and branching-out into other
fields of activity, such as the luxurious
hire-purchase. Yet his own Agricultural
Bank of Tasmania, for long looked-to as
the chief supplier of funds for home-
building, has been throwing money about
like a man with no arms during the
current financial year. With prospects for
the coming year not much better, the
waiting-list of would-be borrowers was
fast approaching the thousand-mark at
last count.
• •
Victoria completed 23,332 houses last
year, an improvement of 1476 on the
previous year and 221 above the next-
best year, 1951.
• •
“Mango”: The drift from the land,
shown in “Honest Frank” par. (B.
8/2//56), applies equally well in my
area, Casino, on the N.S.W. north coast.
Between the two elections in 1950 and
1953 the rural polling-places around
Casino showed a loss of over 250 voters.
To this can be added at least another 100
to cover the younger members of the
family who have “had dairy-farming.”
And this at a time when, according to the
experts, dairying was experiencing “boom
times.” So long as we have town jobs
offering “lollies-and-chocolates” condi-
tions, we shall continue to see our young
people leaving an industry that should be
helping to correct our adverse trade-
balance. Why can’t our Governments
take a leaf out of Britain’s book? Over
there farming and industrial jobs offer
the same conditions to both employers
and employees. Result: there’s no short-
age of farm labor.
• •
U.S. Army and Air Force reps, are arriv-
ing to see trials of the Australian-designed
pilotless-aircraft, and to study the main-
tenance and operation of the Jindiviks.
The visit is associated with negotiations
for the sale of the craft to America. De-
fence Production . Minister Harrison
describes the U.S. interest as “most
stimulating,” and says he has high hopes
for the outcome of the visit and talks.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
r pHERE were only half-a-dozen pas-
J- sengers, all men, on the airliner pre-
paring to take-off at the city airport when
a delay drew attention to the arrival of a
third hostess carrying a baby; obviously
a healthy baby, but much too young to
be of any interest to a commercial-travel-
ler, a businessman, a soldier-on-leave, a
member of Parliament or a couple of
hardened journalists on their way to
report- the opening of a new industry in
a country town. So we settled down to
Dale Carnegie-ing each other and admir-
ing those convenient little whisky-bottle§
the airlines so thoughtfully provide. It
was quiet when the aircraft’s engines were
switched-off at the country airstrip'—
except for the click, click, click, of high-
heels running . . . and a young woman
held tight to her baby and a sympathetic
air-hostess, the tears flowing. The pilot
told us the story, how it all started with
a diverted inter-city airliner and a hurry-
ing ambulance, a baby whose life had
hung by a thread. —“Burr Imul.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦>
“Deg.”: Melbourne “Herald” already
has an “Olympic Games Reporter”
training to smash word-records.
♦> »> ♦♦♦
“Apemantus”: In Perth a young man
has been placed on a £lOO personal bond
to be of good behavior for six months
for “having had evil designs on a
woman.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Eureka”: When the Quiz Kids broad-
cast from Bathurst (N.S.W.), the first
question was “Which Australian Prime
Minister lived in Bathurst?” All were
silent except the guest quiz-kid, who
hailed from Bathurst, and he answered
“Macquarie.” Maybe the face of the
bronze figure in the little park at
, Bathurst came as close as bronze or Ben
Chifley could manage to a smile.
♦;♦ ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”: English buses don’t
know the sober simplicity of the Sydney
trammie’s book of stubbed tickets. Near-
est is a printed sliver of thick paper,
which, before surrendering, the “clippie”
slips into the mouth of a small machine
belted to his waist; raising his fist he
strikes at the top, the machine hiccups a
sharp, metallic “Ping!” in protest or
acknowledgment, and disgorges the ticket
minus a small segment. But this is
elementary. One machine apparently
holds a roll of blank paper and a
miniature printing-set. Having worked
out your fare, the conductor inserts his
finger into a telephone-dial, and proceeds
to dial fare, fare-stage, and, I suspect, the
date. The gyration of a handle at the side
then causes the ticket to protrude like
the tongue of a naughty boy. A variation
on this replaces the dial by a set of cali-
brated wheels. Both these machines are
the delight of small children travelling
en famille, for, with several tickets to dis-
pense, the conductor doesn’t bother to
separate them, but hands them over in a
strip which may be a yard long, with
which the children happily festoon each
other for the rest of the journey.
*l* *t* ♦>
“Leech”: Aged 3: “Daddy, once a
long time ago, when I was just a little
girl and you weren’t even born ”
♦+♦ *** ♦>
“Panhandle”: Two Pan-American Air-
ways officials. Miss Freida Keliiwahine-
kawineokalani and Mr. Milton I, might
well be arrested and charged, in the
words of John Milton, with “committing
short and long.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“F.S.”: Melbourne Tramway chairman
Risson should be strongly advised
against putting outside-ads. back on his
juggernauts. When reams were used to
boost the exhibition of modernistic
paintings which Melbourne “Herald”
brought out from Europe, the Town Hall
was packed for a fortnight; dozens of
lecturers bellowed at the mob, morning,
noon and evening; the jargon spread
from Portland to the Gabo, from Bass
Strait to the border, and even children
bought paints and brushes and sent
masterpieces to exhibitions. Now no-
body can do a decent drawing of a cup-
and-saucer.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Old Mac”: Stop me if you’ve heard
this one, “0.W.W.” (B. 15/2/’56); but
A Scot never goes about wearing kilts :
he wears a kilt.
“Pevin”: Fifteen-year-old Bettine had
lost her ruler, and her voice carried
clearly over the class, suddenly hushed
“If you want anything in this World you've got to cry all night for it!"
as a teacher appeared in the doorway:
“Somebody’s pinched it! ” “It’d be a
lot better if somebody smacked it,” re-
plied the cold voice of authority.
A - 4
v * *
“Shandy B.”: Ex-host was gloating,
“There are ten bottles still packed in ice
in the electric copper,” he informed me.
“They only drank those out of the fridge
and wash-troughs.” “Well,” I said sourly,
“if you’ll just give me a hand to clear up
the worst of the mess from your birthday-
orgy, we’ll get to bed.” The first noise,
shortly after dawn, shook us awake. The
second had us sitting up in alarm, and the
"This ought to burn the boys up, Lulu!"
third had ex-host racing out to the
laundry. He came back and sagged down
on the bed. “Listen,” he said. Another
explosion shuddered through the house.
“How stiff can a man be!” he groaned.
“The copper has short-circuited and
boiled the ice, and the ice has boiled the
beer. I can’t salvage a bottle without the
risk of having my head hacked off. Not
that I wouldn’t be better off without a
head,” he added morosely. “Bang! ” went
another bottle.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pevin”: The new English-teacher,
somewhat vague about school-routines
and -timetables, had set his first exam.-
paper. During exam.-week he was sur-
prised to be aceosted by y four of his less-
enthusiastic 15-year-olds: “Mr. New, that
question on ‘Julius Caesar’?” The teacher
patted his pockets: “Left it in my desk.”
“But what should we have done with it?”
Mr. New remembered, anyway, and
explained what he had in mind for an
answer. The boys nodded sagely and
went off, while the newchum congratu-
lated himself on having made an impres-
sion, after all. When the exam, was held,
the next day, the whole class showed a
remarkable grasp of the work on “Julius
Caesar.”
♦S’ ♦!♦
“Narumee”: An issue of “Lilliput,”
an English magazine, was devoted to
wine; illustrated ads. and knowledge-
able articles listed the virtues of wine-
drinking, instructed as to choice, decant-
ing and serving, named suitable brands
and vintages for every occasion. French,
Spanish, German, Italian and even South
African wines were mentioned and
praised. Australian? No . . . My next car
will be a Mercedes.
“Jobber”: “Embee’s” reference
to Johore (B. 15/2/’56) reminds
me of when the Sultan was buying
horses in New South Wales at the
beginning of the century. I hap-
pened to be the bank ledger-keeper
where his dough was stacked, and
believe me it was a goodly pile. He had
a wonderful top-plate. Sometimes he
wore an ordinary plain set, but when he
lobbed-in, all smiles, with the upper-plate
set with diamonds it caused a sensation.
*s♦ ♦♦♦ <£♦
“C.A.L.”: The managing-director had
joined the staff-manager, who was
“O-pipping” from an observation-post
commanding the emporium’s three
ground-floor entrances. “Male staff con-
tinually going out and coming back,” the
m.-d. commented. “Yes, sir,” agreed the
s.-m.; “they’re often called-upon to run
messages. We can’t get boys, and so
seniors from male departments have to
do these jobs.” The managing-director
didn’t seem happy. “Messenger-boys at
fifteen-pounds a week! ” he snorted. “It’s
bad enough paying juveniles five-pounds
a week to stroll around town and listen
at record-bars and juke-boxes, but I’ll bet
half the men doing their work are in the
pubs every day in the firm’s time.” “It
wouldn’t be fifty per cent, every day, sir,”
the staff-manager hastened to reassure his
principal. “With the change of pro-
gramme every Friday at the theatre oppo-
site, I’ve seen fully sixty per cent, going
into the afternoon matinee.”
❖ *
“Little Bay”: Floods in our N.S.W.
South Coast district prevented the school
bus from getting through. My daughter
missed three days’ schooling. Although
the reason was obvious and the floods had
been front-paged in city and local press,
the headmaster sent me a “please
explain.” Only my husband restrained
me from writing that my daughter’s name
was not Lorraine Crapp.
♦> ❖
“C.A.A.”: Geelong (Vic.) will be trial-
ground for an extension of the Victorian
police-system: a modified D.24-operation
for the policing of a city of 85,000. Seven
wireless-motor-cycle outfits and two cars
similarly equipped make a 24-hours-daily
patrol of the city and suburbs and keep
in radio-contact with headquarters. The
experiment is being directed by Superin-
tendent F. Simpson, who supervised police
arrangements during the Royal visit.
“Metax”: A pie containing 10001 b. of
apples, 5001 b. of flour and 2001 b. of sugar
is being made for a festival at Cygnet, in
the Speck’s Huon Valley, on March 17.
It will cost £250 and will be distributed
free to 16,000 people—each will get a
two-square-inch piece.
❖ ❖ *
nrHE Italian mother got on the bus at
the comer of Lonsdale-street and
Russell-street, Melbourne, with her young
son, so newly turned-out and well-
scrubbed as to be fit for nothing but his
first day at school, holding tightly to her
hand. For a fortnight she took him to
the school-door. He grew in assurance;
no longer timid —or spruce. One morn-
ing, after getting off the bus, he spoke
severely to his mother at the bus-stop;
she was being told that it was not proto-
col for a boy’s mother to take him to
school. “Hooroo!” he said, and rushed
off on the dangerous journey to the
school-door by himself, leaving his
mother shaking her head over her lost
bambino. Soon he was making the bus-
journey on his own. Some months later
he came aboard in the school’s football-
guernsey, with “19” on the back, his foot-
ball-boots slung over his shoulder. “Ah,
said the conductor, “John Coleman, 1
see.” “Too right,” said the bambino. He
jumped off the bus and started for the
school on the run. “Hey,” yelled an-
other boy, “here’s loe Palooka! Hows
it goin’, Joe?” “0.K., Hopalong, it’s m
the bag.”—“T.”
THE HOTEL PROBLEM
“Hilton Hotels, of the U.S.A., and Mr. Ling,
of Hong Kong, plan building luxury-hotels in
Sydney. The £3-million Hilton pub will have
television and a bathroom to every room; the
£750,000 Ling pub will have a glass-bottomed
swimming-pool through which diners below
can watch the swimmers.”
At Mr. Ling’s the town-elite.
Each according to his whim,
Will swim and watch the people eat
Or eat and watch the people swim.
But Hilton people won’t demean
Themselves with such an exhibition
For they will see or swim unseen :
In private baths; by television.
To dine, dive, have a bath or look ?
I’d never know in which to stay,
Except that my bank-savings-book
Advises me to stay — away.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


T>RISBANE will soon have a surplus of
" buckets, tins, tubs, old saucepans and
other ewers and pitchers: they’re going
to mend the leaks in the roof of our
million-pound City Hall! —“Rimutuka”
❖ ❖ ♦>
"‘Spokeshave”: Melbourne’s Olympic
organisers predict that citizens will be
struck all of a heap by the festival-decora-
tions, abstract designs in bright blue,
yellow, black, green and red in geometri-
cal shapes. An Olympic-torch 25ft. high
will gush lights 60ft. into the empyrean.
The committee is looking for a way to
make the torch smoke. They might use-
fully consult the architect who designed
the chimney for the dream-home of a
friend of mine.
❖ ❖ +l+
Can any city boasting only
two commercial radio-stations beat
Hobart for the number of soap-operas
a day? Monday to Thursday, the stations
average no fewer than 20 serials each.
They begin at 8.45 a.m. and finish at
10 p.m. Most instalments are 15-minutes,
giving 10 solid hours of romance, mur-
der, adventure or what-have-you. And
should some appetite remain insatiate
the national programme daily contri-
butes three.
*** ♦♦♦
“C.A.A.”: Employers in Perth have
been set a facer by the granting of full
Sheffield Shield cricket-status to Westralia
next season. It has long been the custom
when an inter-State sporting team is play-
ing in Perth for all city office-staff to be
granted free afternoons for the duration
of the fixture.
❖ ❖ +:♦
“E.H.M.”: I heard one broadcaster
decelerate a race-description. One of
the horses got a bad start, which evidently
forced the broadcaster’s blood-pressure
up; in a voice of great carrying-power,
but with stuttering incoherency, he de-
scribed the race until the horses were
half-a-furlong from the winning-post.
Then his voice grew weaker and weaker
until it finally faded away into a gasp
of relief when the horse that missed the
jump got up first to the post. He had
thirty-quid on the winner, at 14’s.
*l* ♦>
“Narumee”: Tell “Wusslean” (B.
22/2/’56) that we pen-pushers who
supply fiction for women’s magazines
have to model our heroines’ phizogs on
those of fashionable film-stars. Audrey
Hepburn is responsible for the heart-
shaping, but we shall be permitted to
revert to the oval with the Grace Kelly-
Prince Rainier wedding coming up; we
may even be able to sweep our girls’
blonde tresses back into buns, after
months of gamin-wisps on the forehead.
I’ll be glad; I’ve had heart-shapes; but
my thin-, round- or square-faced hero-
ines were evidently what my stories fell
flat on.
£« »Jt
“Tom”: In front of his home at
Burwood (Sydney) on a Saturday after-
noon a citizen busy hosing-down his car
was clad in a pair of shorts and, trans-
parently anxious to observe the pro-
prieties, a plastic raincoat.
“Melbn”: After 40 days of continuous
hot weather and no rain Melbourne
gentlemen walked under a pitiless blue
sky in their shirt-sleeves. Some have
been seen in exclusive cafes without ties.
Pre-war a young lady was arrested in
Collins-street for walking from a taxi into
her apartments in a swimsuit. Cos-
tumes much scantier are common on that
thoroughfare these days, and the other
afternoon a cafd served cakes and ices to
customers seated at tables on the pave-
men in upper Collins-street —with one
eye lifting for a policeman.
♦> ❖
“Joe Blow”: I’ve seen emergency-cords
in trains pulled deliberately dozens of
times, and have never known one not
to work. Anyone who was in that por-
tion of Greta Camp (N.S.W.) known as
“Silver City” will bear me out. The
trains from Sydney passed right by Silver
City one mile before the scheduled halt
at Greta-station, and every night there
was a forced halt at Silver City for the
Armidale Express and Glen Innes Mail.
Sometimes a newchum would pull the
cord early and leave the last car over
the little creek that runs by Silver City.
One black night our P.T.-sergeant was
awakened by the screaming of the
emergency braking-system, and proved
his own fitness by a magnificent leap
through the open door into the creek.
Officialdom pleaded, reasoned and threat-
ened, but all to no avail. I didn’t see this
myself, but our B.S.M. swore he saw the
cord pulled by a half-colonel one wet
night.
❖ *l*
“Cunedda”: Of 135 pupils at Home-
bush High School, Sydney, who sat for
the 1955 N.S.W. Leaving Certificate, 92
per cent, passed, and 50 won scholar-
ships which entitle them to free university-
education. There are about 3000 Com-
monwealth scholarships made available
"I'm afraid it still looks a teeny bit like whatever it's
supposed to represent !”
each year, about 1250 of them in N.S.W.
Three Homebush High boys—Frank
Phillipson, Frank Coomb and P.
Schuleshko —were among the first
hundred scholarship-winners.
+X+ *l* ❖
“C.A.L.”: “This is where the nobs
live,” I remarked when driving an eastem-
States visitor through a well-to-do Perth
riverside area. “Oh, a cane-rake com-
munity,” he remarked, and I asked him
what he meant. “Well, it’s this way,” he
said. “Back home I’m in a large depart-
ment-store patronised by the upper-strata.
When they buy anything they tell the
assistant to charge it. I sell cane rakes
for three-and-nine, compared to ten-bob
for better-quality steel ones. The steel
“ That's enough—now give your sister a go.”
ones sell well among cash-customers from
industrial suburbs, but the cane ones are
invariably bought by the entry-customers
of the better-class districts who love to
put on dog and give the impression they
are people of means.”
♦X*
“Voyager”: In a letter from a couple
who wish to travel from England to
India by car:
We are chasing a dozen or so Consulates, for
visas for our trip to India. Some countries
want a vicar’s certificate that we have no
Jewish streak in us, others need special letters
of recommendation. Jordan will not grant
permission before Irak has given theirs, and
Irak will not do so before Iran has signed.
And when we collected the Persian visa, we
discovered that it would expire before we could
get there.
“Doormat”: The A.B.C. will handle
15,000 recording-tapes and 200 micro-
phones for 50 soundproof studios in Mel-
bourne during the Olympic Games. The
commission will be host to about 120
broadcasters from nearly 50 nations.
A.B.C. staff may rise to 150 by Novem-
ber, and a large part of the Radio-Aus-
tralia programme will be suspended to
leave transmitters free for all com-
mentator.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Deg.”: For some weeks past the
MSS. instructions in “Answers” have con-
tained a repeat of the line “be shortened
or altered as the.” As a hopeful par.-
writer I expect it’s been there to empha-
sise the sharpness of the sub-ed.’s blue-
pencil.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Agar”: To an evening meeting of the
school Parents’ and Friends’ Association
in the home of the president only two
fathers (one the president’s husband)
were attracted, and both were “hams.”
The meeting dragged on, wandering off
into too many feminine cross-trails of
thought, and masculine interest flagged.
Soon a murmur of deep voices was heard,
rising gradually but steadily to a level
at which all could distinguish the rapt
discussion of “condensers” and “impe-
dance” and “Q” and “standing wave-
ratio.” In vain did the wives concerned
send frantic signals. Is there anything
as bad as a “ham” for single-minded
absorption? It’s the same at a social
gathering: be there more than one “ham”
present, in no time they are huddled in
a comer, oblivious of their surroundings,
solemnly intoning their cabalistic litany.
*• ❖ *■
“Kros”: Read the other day where
one of four fellows all pining to take out
the same girl decided to run a “book” on
the outcome. The “bookie” started
favorite, but the event went to a 4-to-l
outsider; still, he collected and so was
happy. And, anyway, the winner may
find he collected only a nag.
❖ ❖
“Sack”: The wife, reading an auto-
biography by Lady Churchill, enthused:
“There’s no doubt about the way old
Winnie can put things! His wife says
the nicest thing he ever wrote was: ‘I
got married and lived happily even after.”
I chuckled. Nobody but the Old Master
could take a hackneyed one like that and
give it a cynical, humorous and yet affec-
tionate twist by altering just one word
—one letter, in fact. I was extending the
subject with enthusiasm when the cheers-
and-hisses suddenly exclaimed: “Wait a
minute. I must have read that wrong.
He didn’t say ‘even,’ at all; he just said
‘ever.’ ” Then, as it caught up with her:
“Gosh, I must be a subconscious phrase-
maker ...” I fear it will be a long
time before I succeed in deflating her to
normal.
♦♦♦
“S’Berry”: Within a half-mile of Perth
G.P.O. there’s a factory-site for sale,
with vacant possession of its modern
buildings and equipment. It’s guaranteed
free from rabbits; in fact, the vendor-
company, once a big dealer in rabbits, has
been killed-off by myxomatosis.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: Heard the daily-help
from near-by relating snippets from the
radio-news. “Yes, they got ’em,” referring
to recent arrest of two car-thieves, “and
they’re demanded in custard.” Then
about the flooded areas: “They moved
all the women and kids last night, and
they’ve been filleted.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Brick E.” As to “Four Winds” as a
house-name (B. 25/1/’56), from the day
I started work on a relative’s cottage at
Gerringong (N.S.W.) till the finish of the
job, winds from every direction never
ceased trying to tear the structure down
as we tried to put it up. “This place,” I
growled, “reminds me of a book we had
for supplementary reading when I was
going to school: Four Winds Farm.”
Visiting the place later I noticed it bore
a name: “Four Winds.” I was standing
grinning at the nameplate and holding
my hat down, when a truck battled up to
the peak of the hill. The driver looked
out, sighted the name, and flung a remark
back on one of the winds: “ ‘Cop-the-
Lot’ ’ud be more like it!”
POOR PRAWNS
“Instead of a tasty morsel, the prawn has
degenerated into something to treat with
disgust.” —Extract from a letter to “S. M.
Herald” from J. C. C. Bingham, manager of
Evans Head ( N.S.W .) Fisheries Co-op.
Once, we had prawns worthy to go
With beer that Bung was proud to pull.
Both had big heads, it’s true; but, oh,
In body they were very full!
Those king-prawns, in their armor bright,
Big in the chest, of perfect figure,
Thick whiskers evidencing might,
They were indeed a handsome sight,
Full of Samsonian strength and vigor.
They roamed the ocean as they willed,
On plankton and on stoush they fed.
Big jews they chased and damn’ near killed
(So truthful fishermen have said).
Game-fisher men with oily hair,
Who hailed from Naples or from
Venice,
Hunting the monsters in their lair,
Often suffered an awful scare —
Those huge, strong prawns were quite
a menace.
How often have I had to wield
Pliers upon its jointed hide
Ere some crustaceous giant would yield
Flesh that way once Australia’s pride!
The true Lucullan feast it graced;
A few such prawns, and one was sated.
That noble breed has been displaced.
Today’s prawns are a race debased,
They’ve horribly degenerated.
The old-time prawn would scorn to be
Caught in the same net as such runts ;
To be parked on the same plate he
Would deem the greatest of affronts.
This was his one abiding pride :
That with his rich flesh he could thrill
us.
The epicure he satisfied,
The gourmand filled. But, today’s snide
Prawn —only with disgust he’ll fill us !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Keep in
goop
SPiRi TS
c W «RS trENGTH
'HOSPITAL
“RANDY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Except as a measure of his modesty
the brief Who’s Who biography of Errol
Solomon Meyers (passed on in Brisbane),
gives little indication of the eminent
surgeon’s character. His academic quali-
fications were M.B. and F.R.A.C.S. Yet
he was one of the leading authorities on
the surgery and pathology of cancer of
the neck and head, and in his State
pioneered the surgical procedure for its
treatment. But his outstanding achieve-
ment was his devoted insistence on the
establishment of a Faculty of Medicine
for Queensland University. He began his
campaign in 1922, at a time when, hav-
ing reached his A.A.M.C. lieutenant-
colonelcy in War I, he was demon-
strating in anatomy at Brisbane Dental
Hospital. Aided by three other medicoes
(one of them, J. V. Duhig, collaborated
with him on a treatise on neck-cancer),
it took him 14 years of plugging before
his dream materialised. Five years later
he was elected Dean of the Faculty, and,
in 1946, was given the Chair of Social
and Tropical Medicine. His three sons
are medicoes.
0 0
Professor S. H. Roberts, Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University of Sydney, will
be packing his ports soon for a six-months
inspection of university methods in the
U.S. and Canada.
0 0
Ernest James Breakwell, one of several
specialist-contributors to The Bulletin’s
Royal Easter Show supplement, is widely
known to land-men for his work on the
acid-soils around Lismore (N.S.W.) and
in association with that useful implement
the sod-seeder. Then senior lecturer in
Agronomy at Sydney University, he
directed the Uni.’s pasture-research pro-
gramme “which is well on the way to
solving the problems of establishing
improved-pasture in the Richmond-Tweed
region.”
With A.M.L. and F. as pastures-
adviser since 1954, he stresses the con-
tinuous nature of that Uni. programme,
which has gone beyond the study of the
red, basaltic soils in his time to an inves-
tigation of many types. Likewise in
character, his comment that the sod-
seeder (patented by the University) was
a “team-effort,” that Harold Jenkins, his
2/i.c. (now in charge) “had a lot to do
with k.”
E.J. had his first taste of agricultural
education at Yanco Agricultural High
IMPROVED-PASTURES
School when his father was Head (the
Murrumbidgee-side school, with its
memories of Sir Samuel McCaughey, has
a “Breakwell House” in memory of
Breakwell senior), went on to Fort Street
and Sydney University, graduated with
honors in Agriculture, collected a Mas-
ter’s degree at Adelaide, was plant-
breeder and lecturer in Agronomy at
Roseworthy and bred several “weapon-
class” types of wheat —Rapier, Javelin,
Scimitar, Dirk, Sabre.
Joined a vet. unit in War 11, finished-
up as a major in command of a Horse
Transport outfit, saving petrol. He’s com-
pensated since. Brown and burly, with
the outdoor look of many agricultural
scientists, he sees a fair bit of the out-of-
doors and uses a lot of petrol, advising
farmers and graziers how to care for
pasture, from the Darling Upwns in
Queensland, through N.S.W., down to
Victoria’s Western District. Doing that,
and keeping an eye on like work on scat-
tered A.M.L. and F. properties, he aver-
ages a yearly 30,000 miles in his own car,
some 10,000 in other people’s cars and
jeeps.
0 0
“Ek Dum”: A little more needs to be
£aid about Colonel Clarence Pike. He
had his niche in World War I history as
an administrative officer of Monash’s
peerless,, hand-picked staff, and his work
as a co-ordinator of the intricate plans
of 1918 “before Amiens” has been given
due recognition, both by his chief and by
Charlie Bean. After the war, he was one
of the famous “original ninety-four” who
founded Legacy in New South Wales in
1927, was president during the hardest
year of the depression, when youth was
suffering most, and kept the chairmanship
of the Junior Youth Committee for many
years—kept, in fact, an active interest
in Legacy-work right up to the time of
his last illness. Many a youngster,
orphaned by war, owes his start in life
largely to the kind-hearted aid and en-
couragement of C.P.
9 0
Sir Edward Macartney, who has gone
on in Brisbane at 93, came here from
Dublin when he was 20. - He joined the
Q.N. Bank as a clerk and ended as chair-
man of the local board. A one-time
councillor of Ithaca Shire he had also
been a Minister of Lands, and then
Queensland Agent-General in London.
Admitted as a solicitor in 1891, at the end
he was partner in Thynne and Macart-
ney, and chairman of firms with interests
ranging from newspapers and chemicals
to dry-ice and insurance.
• •
Nelson College, which produced Lord
Rutherford, will celebrate its centenary
this month. As part of the commemora-
tion, Sir Charles Darwin, direct descend-
ant of Origin of the Spede.y-Darwin, will
deliver the Rutherford Memorial Lecture.
His subject will be: “Rutherford’s work
in relation to the establishment of the
atomic number.” Sir Charles was one of
the first to whom Rutherford communi-
cated his revolutionary idea.
0 0
Charles Douglas Candy, 0.8. E., who
takes-over as Deputy Chief of the Air
Staff in April, with the acting-rank of
Air-Vice-Marshal, was born in Mel-
bourne 44 years ago, went to school at
Caulfield Grammar, and then through
Duntroon. He had operational’ command
and staff-appointments in the U.K., West
Africa and South-West Pacific, collected
two “mentions,” and finished-up War II
as SASO, R.A.A.F. Command. Took the
1947 course at the Joint Services Staff
College in England, was Director of
Organisation and Staff Duties at Mel-
bourne, 1950-’52, and attended the 1953
course at the Imperial Defence College.
For the last couple of years he has been
Senior Air §taff Officer No. 3 Group,
Bomber Command —units of No. 3 Group
were the first in the R.A.F. to be equipped
with V-bombers (Valiants) —and is still in
England.
0 0
Young Melbourne artist Margaret
Stones, whose studies of Australian
flowers struck the popular fancy when
they were shown a couple of years ago,
has smitten the public fancy even harder
in London. Galleries, private collectors,
bequests and specialised collections have
rushed her work. London “News
Chronicle” describes her as one of the
world’s finest botanical artists.
0 0
A. J. Anderson, of C.5.1.R.0., who
was awarded the Australian Medal of
Agricultural Science for 1956 (top-award
for Australian agricultural-scientists), is
a world-authority on the effect of molyb-
denum on plants. In 1955 he gave an
address by invitation at the John Hopkins
University (U.S.A.) on his subject, and
back in 1942 he described the first demon-
strated response of a pasture to molyb-
denum (at Meadows, S.A.) in the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural Science’s
journal. His work has made possible
pasture-improvement over millions of
acres.
9 0
Graduate of Canterbury University
College (N.Z.), B. E. V. Parham, who has
been Deputy Director of Agriculture in
Fiji, is now D. of A. in Western Samoa.
Before going to his Fiji job he was
assistant-mycologist at the Cawthron In-
stitute, Nelson (N.Z.).
0 0
Newly-elected president of the Wine
and Spirit Merchants’ Association of
South Australia, A. J. G. Maitland
joined the Distillers’ Agency in Perth
over 20 years ago. He enlisted in the
Second A.I.F. in 1940 and put in six
WINE-AND-SPIRIT
years with the Army Service Corps, but
strongly denies having had anything to
do with the troops’ grog-issues. Opened
the Adelaide branch of his firm after the
war and became a popular and valued
member of both State and Federal
councils of the trade. Still soldiering
with the militia, Maitland is O.C.
Central Command Army Service Corps
troops ; he was awarded M.B.E. in 1953.
0 0
Royal-commissioner into allegations of
Crown-leasehold dealings in Queensland,
Kenneth Russell Townley, J., was a
barrister in Townsville when Hitler’s
war started, got his A.I.F. number, was
commissioned in 1942, and ended the
Pacific war on Borneo. In 1945 he was
appointed Judge Advocate at the Aus-
tralian war-crimes trials at Morotai, and
in 1950, by then judge, he presided over
those at Manus Island. Not quite 54.
O 0
A drop-shorter of Gallip. and France,
John McCracken went into the Queens-
land Public Service when he was a
nipper of 16. Steps taken since include
assistant-secretary of the P.S. Board,
senior inspector and, from 1939, Public
Service Commissioner. To speed-up hear-
ing of industrial claims, he has been
seated on the Industrial Court Bench,
fourth-member.
o 0
The tobacco-gold Philip Morris
packets now being sold in Australia carry
the legend “New York —Melbourne —
CIGARETTES
London”: an indication of the potential
importance of this American investment
in Australia.
Clark T. Ames, jnr., vice-president in
charge of production and a director of
the U.S. firm, is 63, tall, soft-spoken,
unassuming. He was here in 1953, when
he picked the site for the Philip Morris
factory at Morrabin, Melbourne, and he
lobbed-in again from Manila for a three-
week visit before pushing-off to Singa-
pore, Delhi, Karachi, Cairo, Istanbul,
Athens, Rome, Switzerland, England then
home. He’s been in the tobacco-game
for 48 years, comes from Richmond,
Virginia (of late years, New York), and
finds time for a little golf and cards.
Says certain types of Australian tobacco
are excellent, and emphasises that smokers
get exactly the same blend, wherever
Philip Morris cigarettes are made.
The company has big plans of expan-
sion. Soon they will be manufacturing in
Pakistan, and probably in Venezuela. In
those plans Australia seems likely to be
the chief centre for export in the sterling-
area. Already shipments have left here
for 10 countries.
• •
N.Z. manager of the Commercial Bank
of Australia, K. L. Le Sueur, has been
elected chairman of the Associated Banks
of N.Z., succeeding H. W. Whyte, of the
National of N.Z. C. P. Edwards, chief-
manager for the Australia and N.Z.
Bank, becomes deputy-chairman.
0 0
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 79, E. A. (Ted) Hamilton,
a man of many occupations, among them vet.,
station-manager, g.-m. of the Dairy Farmers
Co-op., chairman of the Milk Board and orchid-
grower. He was a son of A. G. Hamilton,
whom old pupils still gratefully remember for
his work as headmaster (at Willoughby, among
other places) and University lecturer.
At Armadale (W.A.), at 71, Leon R. Wilkie,
pastoralist, who came to Westralia as a lad of
11. His first property was Glenlassie, near
Kojonup, after which he acquired Edjudina
and other stations near the eastern-goldfields
and Mt. Magnet, his latest acquisition being
Hazeldene, near Armadale.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 81. Robert A.
Handcock, who played in the Rugby Union
team that toured Australia in 1897.
At Royal Naval Hospital, Plymouth (U.K.),
Michael J. Bayfy, C.P.0., R.N. Air Service,
only son of Captain Frank B. Bayly, of Inra-
combe, North Devon. Michael Bayly served
in H.M.A.S. Sydney in Australia and Korea,
1950-52.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 70, Rev. Jasper
Calder, for 27 years Auckland’s Anglican city-
missioner. An associate of the city’s yacht-
clubs, he was known as “the yachties’ chaplain.
During his 10-years’ retirement he farmed one
acre, the vegetable products from which went
to the poor and needy. Son of the Rev. Ven-
Archdeacon Calder, his own son, f> e ''
Matthew Calder, keeps-up the family tradition.


OBVIOUS


ABORIGINALITIES
r F'HE village cop of film and fiction
is invariably portrayed as an un-
observant clot who couldn’t detect a
Commo at a wharfies’ meeting, but our
local Johnop has made a discovery that
will upset all the recognised systems of
distance-measurement, relativity, zero-
establishment and datum-fixing. What’s
more, the sleuthing was done in his own
time —while on holidays. Not even Ripley
knew that there is a place called The
Black Stump—a hamlet about 35 miles
west of Coolah (N.S.W.).—“Fairf.”
* * * *
“Delta”: Brass-plates as marks of
favor issued to aborigines were not the
“ Yap, yap, yap; nag, nag, nag—a man's glad to get to Work for
peace and quiet."
prerogative of “Big Guvment” only.
Graziers found them helpful in manag-
ing the station blacks. I came into pos-
session of two. One is inscribed, “Gallo-
wang, King of Delta, 1893.” Gallowang,
who filled his position with dignity,
broke his neck when he fell from a tree
in search of “sugar-bag.” His successor
was deposed for complicity in a robbery ;
hence my two plates. A small plate was
sold recently at auction in Melbourne for
£7 7s.
* * * *
“Harry L.”: A working-bullock had
the advantage over the horse in those
“Must be pleased to see us. Look at her wagging her old tail!"
“snap”-pulls they used to stage. A bul-
lock-team’s first pull is its best. On the
other hand, a horse-team doesn’t give of
its best until it has warmed-up. Coming
to a nasty stretch towards evening, old-
time bullockies invariably camped close
to it; the horse-team men, faced with the
same hazard, would camp half-a-mile
back from it. Both found they thus stood
their best chance of getting through.
* * * *
“Kia-Ora”: Staying at an N.S.W.
country hotel and having dinner. Baby
sitting on the dining-room floor eating a
piece of bread-and-butter, and alongside
her sitting Mine Host’s native-bear; so
I handed him a piece, too. The koala
put his head on one side and watched
baby. Baby took a bite; bear had a
nibble, then placed his piece down and
took a few steps towards baby. Baby
scolded; bear retreated. This happened
three times, then they both ate their
bread. Baby finished hers, crawled to
bear, and handed him her crust. He
accepted and began to eat; baby resented
and, pointing a finger at him, cried-out
loudly. Bear moved backwards across the
well-polished linoleum, slipping and slid-
ing, but never taking his eyes off baby,
till he came to a bowl of gumtips and
hid among them. All voted it the best
floor-show they’d seen.
* * * *
“Shellback”: When an arc-lighting
system was established in Rangoon —the
abode of every fly on earth —the large
opal globes had open tops, and within
an hour after lighting they were all ex-
tinguished by the millions of insects which
filled the globes up to the junction of the
carbon-pencils. Globes open at top and
bottom were tried and, within an hour
after lighting, dead flies were piled in
heaps beneath every globe and scaven-
gers had to be employed to cart them
away. On the Irrawaddy River, when
running by searchlight at night just be-
fore the monsoon set in, the engineer
attending these lights would often be
knee-deep in dead flies, and in the course
of an hour or so bucketfuls would be
dumped into the river. Where current
is handy it might be worth experimenting
on some of our Australian flies with a
heat-light as described. Night-flying
moths which do their dirty work on"
apples and pears are particularly vulner-
able to a bright light.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: Inflation must have struck
the reptilian market if that New Aus-
tralian is getting £3-a-knob for blue-
tongue lizards (B. 8/2/’56). Just prior
to Hitler’s “blue,” when an otherwise
sane cobber of mine was in that indus-
try, even a tiger-snake wasn’t bringing
more than six-bob on the Australian
market.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Big Mick was trying the
hole in the bend with the spinner, and
had drifted pretty well down to the rapids
before he felt a mighty tug on the line.
Shipping oars, he hauled in fine till he
had the big cod alongside and managed
to get a grip on its gills as the rushing
water took the boat. Down the rapid
they went, where the waters churned
over stones; the boat and Mick sank,
parted company and Mick battled on one-
handed through the swirling suds and
eventually cast-up in a waist-deep back-
water where a trout-maniac was whipping
the water with fly. The t.-m. goggled at
his dripping form—and the 301 b. cod he
dragged out on the pebbly beach. “Strike
me fat! ”he said at last. “No wonder an
angler can’t get fish when you blankards
go after them like cormorants.”
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: On a property at Windermere
(Vic.) they still harvest in the old way.
The crop, reaped and stooked, is built into
a stack. A double-yoked, high-sided hay-
cart is the first step for tossing sheaves
to a second man on a scaffold halfway
up the stack; two men are kept busy on
top. The job, of course, can be done a
lot quicker with a pick-up baler and
elevator, but I don’t think it is economic
reasons that keep the four old-timers out-
of-date. Their completed job is a per-
fectly-proportioned cone-shaped stack
covered on top by finely-pitched thatch-
ing, and I reckon it is the contented
satisfaction of building it that keeps them
a bit longer on the harvest. Rural design
has suffered from the machine-age, and
the plain, rectangular bale-stack shows, in
comparison, that farmers can be artists
when building a sheaf-stack.
“M’Lou”: Like Great Britain, Cyprus
and Mauritius, Australia imposes six-
months’ quarantine on imported dogs,
with Alsatians and dogs of the Alsatian-
type totally prohibited. In Austria,
France, Spain, Canada and New Zealand
any dog certified healthy by a qualified
vet. may enter freely. Germany, Portugal
and the South American and South
African countries require that a similar
certificate be signed. Other countries
discriminate against specific diseases only.
Dogs entering the U.S.A. must be cer-
tified free of rabies ; in Bermuda and the
Barbados Islands they must not have
had contact with foot-and-mouth disease ;
and Sweden insists on a blood-test to
prove them free from leptospiral
infections.
* * * *
“Swelpme”: The regular divisions in
a concrete-road —necessary to allow for
contraction and expansion—used to be
fixed while the concrete was being
poured ; modern practice is to saw the
joints in after the concrete gets its
“initial setting.” Sawing ensures that the
joints are in the right places, and also
eliminates the hampering “breaking” of
the concrete during a pour. A steel cir-
cular-saw is used for the cutting, but the
teeth are commercial-diamonds, set in
the circumference. The idea of using
gems as saw-teeth is not new. Some
sizeable jobs were done with similar
tools quite a time ago. The saws weren’t
circular and they were made of brass,
while the gems were beryl, topaz, chryso-
beryl or sapphire. But there was nothing
wrong with the jobs they did—nor with
the tradesmen who wielded them, even
if they did leave saw-marks on the granite
sarcophagus which casketed Cheops’
body.
* * * ♦
“C. Coral”: Indian shipbuilders, be-
cause they object on religious grounds to
the use of animal-tallow, are using ripe
bananas for “greasing” the slipways
when a new boat is being launched.
Come to think of it, the banana or its
skin should be a “natural” for the job.
* ♦ * *
“Ceg”: It was my happy lot to sail
the waters of Sydney Harbor aboard the
yacht Athene, the owner of which was
well-versed in mathematics. Lunch used
to be taken in the still waters of Quaran-
tine Cove, and spuds were boiled in sea-
water on the primus. A pound or so of
the murphies would be put in the billy,
small and large together. It was then, if
any ladies were aboard, that the dis-
cussion started. “Aren’t you going to
cut the bigger ones? They’ll take longer
to cook if you don’t halve them.” Die
mathematician maintained that all would
be cooked to a turn at exactly the same
time ; from memory, his argument turned
on the fact that the larger spuds presented
a greater surface to the heated water.
* # * *
“Motuku”: I doubt that “Woorarra’s”
purple gallinule is the champion avian
all-rounder (B. 8/2/’56). It can certainly
run, but any of its smaller relations, the
true coots, which have lobed toes, are
much better swimmers, and, although
they do not generally fly if they can find
ground-cover when alarmed, they can fly
both faster and further than the gallinule.
Aquatic birds that are excellent swimmers
and flyers, as well as being proficient
and not ungraceful walkers, are the
magpie-geese. With a shotgun I have
followed great flocks of them across grass-
fallows and found I couldn’t walk fast
enough to get within range, and as soon
as I started to run they took to flight.
For their aquatic activities in settled
districts they prefer swamps with tall
trees near by sentry-posts by day,
roosting-perches by night.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: Though the stick-insect
may bear a superficial resemblance to
the praying-mantis, it is very different in
temperament and habits, the stick-bloke
being a strict vegetarian, the mantis an
“eat-’em-alive-oh.” Our large phasmids
(stick-insects) all seem to be under-
powered, with legs and wings barely able
to support their weight, but some of the
smaller ones (leaf-insects) are more ener-
getic and mobile. Several species mav
reach plague-numbers and do a lot of
damage to native trees. The mantids are
all very active, and the snatching stroke
of their hooked forearms is quick as a
flash. The smallest I know is about an
inch long and nearly black —good camou-
flage against the butt of a tree, where it
lies in wait for tiny ants. I saw one of
the big fellows put up a good fight with
a two-months-old kitten, which won on
a t.k.o.
’NEATH A SHADY BANYAN-TREE
A nutmeg-pigeon’s cooing where the river-figs
are growing,
And a blood-finch calls its mate amidst the
swaying river reeds.
By jungle trees and cliffs of stone the Daly
river’s flowing
Where the magpie-geese are feeding on the
drying nut-grass seeds.
And I sit beside its waters ’neath a shady
banyan-tree,
Watching leaves upon its surface drift and eddy
as 1 gaze
Where a baramundi splashes as it swims towards
the sea,
And the dollar-birds are calling in the leafy
jungle maze.
The giant prawns are feeding, and I watch their
colors fading
’Midst dark-green sedge before me where the
water-beetles glide.
And on a sandy islet a lone jabiru is wading
As it hunts upon the beaches of the slow
receding tide.
The crimson-wings come gliding in to where
their mates are calling,
And I glimpse then colored plumage ’gainst
the silver sunlit gleam.
They chatter ’midst some foliage where the
tea-tree blooms are falling
As a shroud of creamy petals on the slowly
moving stream.
How calm the scene before me where a
rainbow-bird goes skimming
Over the drifting waters rippled by the morning
breeze.
And by a reedy shoreline, where some pigmy-
geese are swimming,
A wisp of smoke goes trailing o’er the
dark-green mango-trees.
A blackman poles his dugout where the yellow
reeds are lying,
And I glimpse a trapped fish writhing on his
fish-spear’s jagged prongs;
Whilst o’erhead comes strident crying where
black-cockatoos go flying
To seed-beds on the river-flats by lily
billabongs.
A tractor engine’s roaring where a peanut-
planter’s ploughing
Within a sunlit clearing flanked by green
riparian trees.
And over all a sea-borne wind through swaying
reeds is soughing
To recall nostalgic memories from the
jade-green northern seas.
N.T,
W. E. HARNEY.


OUAIL? Chicken Maryland? Plebeian
fodder these days, compared with
the vanishing bunny. Brer was bringing
10s. 6d. a pair in Melbourne last week.
•—“Big Billy.”
* * * *
“Geep”: Before breaking-camp, and
when the fire is down to a few coals, it’s
common practice in parts of Westralia
to bury in the ashes a chunk of meat
wrapped round a dose of strychnine.
There’s enough heat left to fill the air
with a smell no dingo can resist. But if
there are no dingoes within smelling-
distance the bait stays there. That’s why
old hands never light a campfire on the
site of a previous one; they don’t fancy
strychnine with their barbecue.
• * * *
“Inglegar”: The chain-gang’s pick-
marks are evident in almost every yard
of S’ Tommy Mitchell’s Pass of Victoria,
just west of Mount Victoria (N.S.W.).
One of the gang’s jobs was to cut sand-
stone-blocks for the causeway on one
section of the pass, and to cart them to
the site. They were unmanacled for this
work, so one fellow, Connolley, kept his
eye peeled for the moment the sentry
reached the limit of his go. Then he did
his dash. His pals handed the deed down
in two words cut into the sandstone wall,
“Connolley Escapes.” It’s still there.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Your “hawk,” “Quo
Vadis” (B. 15/2 / ’56), is the fork-tailed kite
(Milvus migrans ). “An inlander mostly”
—yes, so far as eastern Australia goes;
I haven’t seen much of him this side of
the Darling; but the planes for London
pass above him all the way to the Medi-
terranean. This is the fowl which has
caused aircraft to crash ; there are swarms
of them above Asian ’dromes. In Calcutta
a milling cloud of them moving slowly
across the city indicates the progress of
the garbage-cart below; the local custom
of tipping the garbage in heaps
on the roadway for the cleaners
to shovel into carts suits the
kites nicely—the operation
allows thorough inspection of
all offerings, which are snatched
from cart-level. They favor
railway-stations, too ; I’ve seen
them hanging in the air-currents
above refreshment-rooms, to
swoop and neatly lift the pie or
cake for which Abdul had paid
his last anna. They must be
of enormous value in the East
for their scavenging.
* * *
“Emjai”: Amateur bone-
setters were sometimes success-
ful with animals. My farmer-
uncle once set and splinted his
horse’s broken leg, trussing
Dobbin in a sling of stout sack-
ing until it knit. The horse
worked for years afterwards. In
our mining-town we kept goats,
and Mum thought she could do
the same when Bally, the big-
horned nanny and rogue-leader
of the mob in garden-raids,
muffed her take-off from a
mound with the sooled dogs on
her tail, crashed over the fence
and snapped a foreleg. Mum’s
splinting and nursing were doing
fine until Bally went bush. She
returned some weeks later, with the leg
set, but back-to-front. Her big horns
continued to make entry for the mob
through any weak spot, but when shooed
she turned her armament on the dogs,
and limped sedately to the gate to be let
out.
* * * *
m
“Noah”: Closing of the 22-mile Ben
Nevis to Navarre rail-spur in nor’-west
Victoria, despite arguments for its
developmental use, inspired settlers in
the locality to make good the loss them-
selves. Plans are being considered for
converting the line, into a roadway as a
transport- and stock-route. The project
has a few engineering problems at
bridges and cuttings, but generally the
line is ideally suited for conversion. Sur-
rounding country is a valuable pastoral
area, and the initiative shown by its
people in this case indicates that future
development is in the right hands.
* * * *
“C.P.M.”: Can’t have “Cowyard
Kate’s” contention (B. 15/2/’56) that in
sheep “new wool displaces the snowy
whiteness of their skins.” The skin is
pink ; it is the first growth of wool that is
white.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: In those areas where the
yellow-robin dwells its pleasant piping is
the first voice to welcome the dawn.
Friendliest of all the amiable robin clan,
it frequently comes to almost touching-
distance of you in the bush, to then eye
you curiously without trace of fear. As
it builds in an exposed position, it would
seem that the eggs and young would be
easy pickings for predators, but the
yellow-robin must be counted a successful
species. The breast of both sexes is
bright yellow, but, as it keeps close to the
ground, only the inconspicuous greyish-
olive back is presented to the high-flying
buccaneers. Moreover, the nest itself is
a masterpiece of camouflage. One I saw
recently was about Bft. off the ground in
a paperbark-tree and beautifully con-
structed of coarse grass, rootlets and
leaves, bound together with cobweb. On
the outside of the nest streamers of bark
from the tree were hung in such cunning
disarray that the structure blended im-
perceptibly into the site.
* * * *
“Erah”: I can now tell a recent “Abo-
riginalities;” inquirer why a swamp-hen
shouldn’t flash fits white tailpiece at a
pursuer. I fired at a white blaze among
swamp reeds, and it cost me a good foxy-
pup. * ' ,
* * * *
“Mari”: The bees that have visited
our garden this summer seem to have
been intent on committing suicide. The
open end of a dark-blue plastic-hose
entices dozens in—those first in invari-
ably come out dead, no matter how care-
fully the tap is turned. I thought thirst
drove them there, until we were deluged
with 12 inches of rain, and still they did
it. Oddly enough, they are not interested
in the equally open end of a faded pale-
blue plastic hose on another tap.
* * * *
“F.A.M.”: The word “Humpybong,”
meaning “dead houses,” was used by
aborigines to describe the area chosen
“Protest about WOT”
for the first white settlement after Oxley
discovered the Brisbane River. The
choice of this site was a poor one, as
fresh-water was not easily obtainable,
and many of the convicts died. The
settlement was moved to the present site
of Brisbane, the blacks called the
untenanted buildings left behind Humpy-
bong, and for many years the place was
known by that name. It is now
Redcliffe.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Having heard of Victoria’s
fishing-regulations, invading the State in
Upper Murray parts I headed for the
police-station and asked for a licence.
“Yes,” the cop said, “go to Wodonga ;
they have ’em there.” I was, I said, head-
ing for Gippsland—away from Wodonga.
“All right,» then ; you can get * one at
Bairnsdale.” “And what,” I asked, “will
all the trout around Omeo think of me
without a licence?” The copper grinned
and resumed stabbing at his typewriter.
On reaching the old valley I was glad
I hadn’t bothered to call at Bairnsdale,
for the fishing is not what it was. My
young niece came trudging up from the
river in the dusk and grumbling that they
had “gone down for a good night’s eeling
and all they could catch was trout.”
* * * *
“Maitri”: While on a trip to Japan a
friend was fascinated with the great
Manila-lilies she saw in the Philippines,
so she bought some of the plants to grow
in her garden here. They flourished
and increased in number, but year after
year, to her intense disappointment, they
failed to blossom. Unexpectedly, my
friend fell sick and died ; then, ironically,
within a two of her death they
burst into bloom —dozens of huge white
pollen-filled lilies, flowering on stalks 7ft.
to 10ft. tall.
* # * *
“Gossipper”: Sam, pensioned-off after
a lifetime in stokeholds, accepted an in-
vitation to spend his retirement on his
nephew’s small-crops farm. On his first
day he sauntered down the rows of
greens, just reaching the end of the cul-
tivation when nephew tumed-on the
spray-lines. Sam hurried up to the tool-
shed. “Hey,” he yelled, “lower the water-
pressure! Your pipes are leakin’ every
few feet!”
* * * *
“Jas”: Watching avian life in the
underbrush, I sighted a pair of log-
runners. Both sexes soberly clad—though
the cock had a brief splash of rufous on
the upper breast—they looked not unlike
certain quail-thrush. Shy birds normally
as are all denizens of the underbrush, they
endured by close-range scrutiny with-
out alarm. Blithely they amongst
the debris, raking, not only with claws,
but also with long stiff tails —a trick surely
unique among avians.
* # * *.
“W.F.T.”: I’ve often wondered why
someone hasn’t developed the eel-market.
Right along our east coast there are
streams that teem with splendid eels, but
even farmers rarely eat an eel. There is
nothing nicer than fried-eel, while jelliexl-
e'el is a dish for the gods.
GOLDEN WHISTLER
Lightly, politely, the cool nor’-easter
tempers the sun as it comes from the sea.
So blue the sky, the clouds so white,
that everything sings in sheer delight —
birds, cicadas and tree-frogs too
in a throbbing, lovely hullabaloo.
Sweetest of all the golden whistler
sings from the bronze-leaved myrtle tree,
like a small girl taking hands and pleading
“Leave it all and come with me.”
Though I must work, my thoughts fly too,
golden bird, and I follow you
through melaleucas, cherry-rose,
to where the coachwood’s campfire glows
and the flame-tree stands
with welcoming hands
deep in the heart of the forest lands.
N-S.W.
E. NORMAN.
A QUEENSLAND STUD
LYNDHURST, on the Darling Downs
near Warwick (Q.), where since 1886
the McDougalls—C. E. (Charlie) and then
his younger brother John Graham (J.G.)
—bred famous racehorses from imported
sires, beginning with Archie (by Rapidity
from Eugenie) and ending with The Buz-
zard (by Spion Kop from Valescure), ha!s
been sold.
The property, approximately a thou-
sand acres, with half-a-mile of river-
frontage on the Condamine, was bought
in 1875 by Charlie’s and J.G.’s father.
On the father’s death in 1882 Charlie, the
third son, then in his teens, undertook the
management of Lyndhurst.
It was he who started the stud, with
the purchase of Archie from A. F. Smart,
well-known breeder, of Sydney, who had
married Charlie’s mother’s sister, Augusta
Weston. She and Mrs. McDougall were
granddaughters of Major Johnston, of
Annandale, said to have imported
Northumberland, second thoroughbred
stallion to come to Australia (one of the
Major’s less-notorious activities).
Smart gave Charlie the choice of
Archie or another horse, named Warwick,
and fortunately he chose Archie, who
was remarkably successful at the stud.
“There was hardly a race-meeting in the
colony at which some of his progeny
did not win,” says a writer of the early-
’hineties.
Archie was followed by Brazenose
(half-brother to Gozo), Musketoon (by
Trenton from Mona) and Ardon (by
Tartar from Ardea).
In 1905 Larulad (by Ladas from
Treasure) was imported, and was leading
sire in Queensland until Charlie Mc-
Dougall imported Syce (by Cyliene from
Skyscraper). Syce was followed by Sere-
mond (by Desmond from Serenata) and
High Force (by Tracery from Vaucluse).
A favorite saying of Charlie’s was
“Horses are my hobby, but it’s cattle I
make the money from.” This was no
less than the truth, as he had also built
up, at Lyndhurst, a fine Shorthorn stud.
In 1923'Charlie died, and J.G. suc-
ceeded him at Lyndhurst. At this time
the progeny of Seremond and Syce were
still winning races: in that year they won
rich races in three States.
J.G.’s first sire was High Force, and
in 1931 he imported the great Spion Kop
horse The Buzzard, who became the
greatest stake-winning sire in Australian
racing-history. The Buzzard’s progeny
during his 20 years at the stud at Lynd-
hurst numbered 170, and they collected
all the most important races in Australia,
including two Melbourne Cups Old
Rowley (1940) and Rainbird (1945).
The Buzzard died in 1952, and in 1955
J.G. also died, at the age of 80. In a
family of seven sons it was ironic that
only Charlie and J.G. did not marry.
Thus there were no sons to inherit Lynd-
hurst, and so it has been sold.
F. A. M.


IXL-AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
xm
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NBO - BABRBEE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon tiie orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
I]
-c^ v
o'*
©e
JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental Cream
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
3fr:
, N -
and stops tooth decay BEST!
Every time you brush your teeth with Colgate
Dental Cream, you can actually feel how smooth
and clean they are. Your teeth are whiter . . .
brighter . . . and you are assured of round-the-
clock protection against decay-causing enzymes.
That’s why Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest—
America’s largest—the world’s largest selling dental cream.
Get the family economy size and save up to 1/8
vasA
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“The Position Is Fluid”
pROM the sharemarket’s point
A of view, the economic posi-
tion at present is fluid (to use
a term from wartime com-
muniques referring to an un-
certain but active situation).
And that, of course, is not to
say that it is liquid in the
economic sense. Far from it,
in many cases. It is, rather, a
shifting position of changing
fortunes, with favorable and un-
favorable factors intermingling,
and a good deal of pushing and
pulling going on.
The new five-year 4£ p.c.
local-government loans have
been welcomed, but the rate on
Commonwealth bonds has
been lengthened by investors
to around £4 12s. per cent.,
including redemption. Wool
prices have firmed since Janu-
ary, and the greater volume of
production may offset the
overall drop in price for the
year, but the effect of the Aus-
tralian wharf-strike has yet to
show-up. Consumer-demand is
still high enough to be inflation-
ary, especially in view of the
impact of import-restrictions yet
to come, but some industries are
recording falling turnovers and
trading-losses. The reinstate-
ment of quarterly basic-wage
adjustments is beginning to
make itself felt in N.S.W. pro-
duction-costs. Heavy tax-
assessments have to be met after
the end of this month. The
export position for wheat is not
exhilarating. And Britain’s
economic difficulties are bound
to be reflected in Australian
trade-returns eventually.
Australian sharemarkets are
down about 7 p.c. or 8 p.c. on
last year’s peak. Investors are
still sorting-out the investment
merits of different stocks —that
is where directors don’t abruptly
break into their meditations with
bad news about stock-values,
etc., or good news about take-
over offers. A fair amount of
sorting-out remains to be done,
and the probability of a rise in
interest-rates this year is likely
to have an overall (and down-
ward) effect on share-prices as
well.
Prosperity Pickle
pROM London: The Chan-
cellor’s emergency measures
(which, in effect, amount to a
third Budget within ten months)
were forced upon him by the
heavy gold losses and the decline
of confidence abroad in sterling.
The pound, it seemed, was head-
ing for a devaluation otherwise.
They also endorse the failure,
in the conflicting conditions of
a Welfare State subject to the
enormous strain of defence com-
mitments, of his predecessor’s
“free” economy. Bank-rate has
risen, in three steps, from p.c.
to 5\ p.c. in thirteen months, but
its classical function as a red
light to the economy has proved
to be inadequate, although its
effect, in association with the
credit “squeeze,” has not been
inconsiderable.
Reactions to the Chancellor’s
announcement are favorable but
qualified. The City expected
greater severity, and is disap-
pointed that the high degree of
Government current expenditure
has been left undisturbed. (It
was a shock to learn, simultane-
ously with the new decrees, that
the Estimates were £ll7 million
more than last year.)
Gilt-edged securities showed
a further drop in price, offering
a yield of nearly 5 p.c. That
there was no rush to buy was
taken as an indication that the
institutions believed that the
lowest point had not yet been
reached. And the “Financial
Times” index of ordinary-shares
sank below the October, 1954,
figure—a fall of nearly 50 points
—cold comfort for those who
sought a hedge against inflation
and failed to take their profit last
year. There are doubts, too,
whether Mr. Macmillan’s dis-
counted savings will meet the
inflationary gap which, with
pending wage-claims, is esti-
mated at £4OO million. Nor does
the City look with approval upon
the Treasury’s propensity to flood
the market with bills.
The broader view is more
optimistic. The reduction of the
bread and milk subsidies,
amounting to a comparatively
trivial £3O million, is applauded
for its political courage—the
nation can stand Id. on a loaf
and id. on a pint of milk without
going hungry. Spending-power
is more likely to be curbed by the
hire-purchase restrictions under
which deposits for consumer-
goods are increased from 15 p.c.
and 331 P-c. to 20 p.c. and 50 p.c.
respectively. Furthermore, it
will not be possible to get round
the ready-cash difficulty by rent-
ing say, a television-set, since all
service-charges and nine months’
rent must be paid in advance.
Industrial hire-purchase con-
tracts will also be affected (to a
degree that may, perhaps, be less
salutary than with household
goods), and the investment allow-
ance —virtually a subsidy—which
Mr. Butler conceded to industry
in 1954 has been suspended.
The Chancellor still preserves
the firm intention of letting the
economy have its head so far as
is compatible with prudence. He
doesn’t propose to introduce
building-licences or import-con-
trols. The measures, he claims,
are only to give the country
“breathing space.”
There is no wide disparity
between the extremes of respon-
sible opinion. At the lower, the
adequacy of the remedies is in
question. So, too, is the thought
of bank-rate as high as 5£ p.c.
for anything but a short period.
The further 1 p.c. since a similar
increase a year ago adds an esti-
mated £4O million to the national
debt. It also bears cruelly upon
the small man who will have to
pay 6i p.c.-7i p.c. for his money,
if he can get it. Similar rates will
apply to the issues of debentures
if they, too, can get past the
Capital Issues Committee.
On the other hand, the mighty
industrial concerns are com-
paratively unhampered because
of their enormous income and
vast reserves. There are, too,
whisperings in the City of loans
being negotiated privately with
the institutions—which would
seem to be endorsed by the with-
drawal of the latter from the
sharemarket.
But the favorable opinion is
that the outlook for 1957 is a
good one, so long as we can
weather 1956. And, of course,
the Chancellor’s emergency
measures are only preliminary to
his April Budget.
Hire-purchase Torpedo
'T'HE hire-purchase companies
are reconsidering their own
voluntary arrangement to restrict
h.-p. advances on motor-car sales
to minimum deposits of 33| p.c.
Tooheys 6 p.c. Notes
WITH a subscription of 90 p.c.
to the £2,338,875 issue of
6 p.c. convertible notes, directors
of Tooheys, Ltd., consider them-
selves satisfied with the public
response. The issue was under-
written. The £1 unsecured notes
become £1 ords. on January 31,
1962.
If, as appears likely, they
come on to the market below
par, they should be good holding
for those prepared to wait six
years and who are satisfied with
6 p.c. in the meantime. Tooheys
at present pays 8 p.c. on its ords.,
and is expanding rapidly.
Caledonian Collieries
A BOUT a year ago it was fore-
** cast in The Bulletin that, if
profit-earning remained con-
stant, and capital-expenditure
stayed around then-existing
levels, ord. shareholders in
Caledonian Collieries should
come into the picture at the end
of the 1956 term.
That appears likely to be the
position on latest developments.
For the 1955 year (ended Dec.
31), Caledonian is clearing the
remaining four years’ pref.
arrears (22 p.c.) and paying 6 p.c.
in respect of 1955. That will call
for £130,003, against £92,859
handed-out in each of the three
preceding years, but earnings and
finances should be adequate for
the purpose.
If in future the co. should
decide to pay an all-round 6 p.c.
to shareholders it would call for
£89,274 a year. (The 6 p.c. prefs.,
reduced to 5 p.c. under the
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act,
participate with the ords. up to
8 p.c.) The minimum 6 p.c. rate
has recently been restored by
legislation.
For the calendar-year 1954,
Caledonian showed a net profit
of £320,087, of which £200,000
was earmarked fc>r future capital-
expenditure. The Bulletin com-
mented at the time:
After setting aside £213,000 (up
£115,000) for taxation, reserving
£BB,OOO (up £28,000) for future
income-tax, and allocating £194,040
(up £5479) for depreciation and
amortisation, net profit for the year
was £57,778 higher at £320,087. On
the net-profit figures claimed, last
year’s taxation provision is astonish-
ingly high, especially when it is noted
that of the year’s earnings, £200,000
was set aside for future capital
expenditure, which is presumably
tax-free.
“The modernisation and mechanisa-
tion programme being followed by
your company is still involving heavy
capital expenditure, but results to
date fully justify the steps being taken
to improve the efficiency. The liquid
resources of the company, after pay-
ment of arrears of preference divi-
dend, are being fully utilised for this
purpose.” That is the only comment
in the directors’ report on what is an
obscure but interesting financial
situation. It would appear that when
capital expenditure ceases not only
should appropriations now made for
that objective be free for div.
purposes (subject to limitations
imposed by the Joint Coal Board),
but earning-capacity should increase
as well.
Earnings in respect of the year
to December 31 last are not yet
available, but they should be
similar to results for the 1954
term, subject to appropriations.
Caledonian produces about
I, tons of coal a year, as
a rule being beaten only by
J. & A. Brown and Australian
Iron and Steel.
Conditions in the trade are
more difficult than they were,
because of the growing popu-
larity of residual-oil fuels. But
modernisation of the co.’s plant
should be of considerable
advantage; two pits have been
fully mechanised, and other
mechanisation is going on.
Caledonian is Howard-Smith
controlled, and there is little
activity in the shares. The ords.
direct last sold at 13s. 3d.; sellers
now ask 15s. 6d. Main market
interest is through Howard
Smith, Ltd., itself.


Jtfuih in Hie
k
It seems to me that Australia is due for a strong
revival in the development of its mineral resources.
At a time when Balance is a watchword in the
national economy, we have come into a new era
for mining, with all its balancing attributes.
Long gone are the romantic gold rushes, when
half-won fields were left for the promise of quicker
riches in another reef. Australia is taking an im-
portant place among the world’s producers of radio-
active ore.
Miners in the Northern Territory were
scratching the Rum Jungle area 60 years ago—for
copper. Now the clamour is for uranium from
that and other Australian fields.
Floyd B. Odium, president of one of the biggest
industrial corporations in America, estimates that
by 1965 the United States alone will require
4,000,000 tons of uranium ore a year for nuclear
projects. It is more than all that is being mined
today.
However, there is no need to dwell upon one
source of atomic fuel to appreciate Australia’s
stake in mineral development as a whole—for its
own sake, and for the impetus it gives to other
industry.
Lots of minerals are here and are vital and
must be won increasingly to supply our expanding
needs.
Governments can do so-much for mining—in
surveying, exploring, advising, encouraging, and,
not least, in fostering research. But in the end it
becomes a matter for the individual, the syndicate,
the company.
* Canada has shown what courage and persis-
tence will do in this developmental sphere. The
Canadians set out a few years ago to prove what
they had in mineral reserves. And we know that
they have been rewarded in amazingly rich dis-
coveries of oil and ore.
They are, of course, an investing people with
a firm Faith in their country’s Future ; and their
incentive spark has helped to give Canada today the
richest currency in the world.
//
34
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
aa
a
BO
&
ERVICE TO
AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY
This Bank played its part in the development of some
of Australia's earliest industries. By to-day's standards
their plant and techniques were modest—but they
demonstrated the progressive spirit of their times.
Down through the years we have continued to serve
Industry of every type and to make available the fruits
of our long experience to those who seek friendly
and helpful advice.
At Head Office, or af our branch nearest to you,
our officers will be glad to discuss how the Bank, with
its modern facilities and services, can help you.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
A/TAORILAND is keeping a
wary eye on its export
markets. It has cause to do so.
With overseas reserves down to
£67 million there is no room
for complacency. Any material
price-recession, even if only
temporary, could be disastrous.
The Government has a few
months’ respite as receipts for
exports build-up to their normal
June peak. By then it hopes that,
with importing whittled down by
the credit-squeeze, reserves will
have recovered sufficiently to
withstand the lean income period
from July to December.
In the year to June 30, 1955,
exports brought in a total of
£220 million (N.Z. currency),
against £24 million in the
previous 12 months. A sub-
stantial part of the fall was
attributable to the time-lag in
receipts for meat and dairy pro-
duce during the changeover from
long-term contracts to free
marketing a non - recurring
factor.
Prospects for the current 12
months period are much brighter.
In the six months to December
31, export income has been £llO
million against £77 million the
previous year, and the heaviest
returns will come in over the
next six months.
On the score of production
there is ground for satisfaction.
Output of wool, meat and butter,
which together account for about
80 per cent, of export income,
is substantially higher. Cheese
ftput is down, but only because
the deliberate diversion of
manufacture to casein, for which
there is a buoyant market.
Prices for Produce
The price prospect is not quite
so happy, but is not such as to
cause any alarm. Wool is a shade
easier, but appears to have
steadied. Meat is selling at
slightly lower prices. Dairy pro-
duce is bringing higher returns,
but industry leaders warn that
wide price-fluctuations are likely.
Wool production in the
1954-55 season, ending June,
totalled 455 million pounds,
greasy or equivalent. Production
for the 1955-56 season has been
estimated at 475 million pounds,
but this may prove to be over-
optimistic. A more likely figure
is 470 million pounds—a rise of
15 million pounds. The average
price realised so far this season
has been about 4 per cent, down
on the previous year. As a very
rough estimate, total returns for
the season may be £4 million
down on account of price and
£3 million up on account of
volume —a net reduction of £1
million. Wool last year realised
£93 million, or about 40 per
cent, of total export income.
Meat
Meat accounts for about 23
per cent, of export income. The
total weight of meat produced
for export in the first three
months of the present season,’
that is to December 31, was
95,750 tons, an increase of 8.5
per cent, compared with the
same period of the previous
year. Output of export lamb was
12 per cent, up at 60,956 tons,
and baconers totalled 2803 tons,
against 664 tons.
To some extent recent heavy
lamb-killings are borrowings
from the future. A dry summer
in a large part of the South
Island has drastically reduced
feed-supplies and caused a heavy
inflow df stock to the freezing-
works. In the first three months
of the season South Island lamb-
killings were 42 p.c. above those
for the same period of the pre-
vious season.
Maoriland lamb, which com-
prises more than 50 p.c. of total
meat exports, is selling in London
at slightly below the high levels
of January, 1955. It should be
noted, however, that in the
seasonal pattern of private
trading in prewar years a
pattern which is now re-emerg-
ing—the t first quarter of the year
was usually one of easing whole-
sale prices in the United King-
dom. A consideration in assess-
ing market prospects is that a
year ago substantial Ministry of
Food stocks remained to be dis-
posed of. Today there are no
Ministry stocks, though stocks in
the hands of private traders
totalled 82,700 at the beginning
of the year. A steady clearance
of these stocks from the record
production season of 1954-55 is
being made.
Butter and Cheese
Butter and cheese together
account for about 26 p.c. of
export income. The dairy
season runs from August 1 to
July 31. In the 1954-55 season
butter-production was 149,000
tons ; this season it is expected
to reach 163,000 tons. Cheese-
production, which was 95,000
tons in 1954-55, is expected to
fall to 86,000 tons because of
diversion to casein.
So far only about a quarter
of Maoriland’s export butter and
one sixth of its cheese has been
sold. Prices have been good, but
experience of the free market
during the last 18 months has
shown that sharp price-fluctu-
ations are to be expected in the
course of any 12 months’ trading.
In the last calendar year, for
instance, butter fluctuated
between 3255. and 4045. per cwt.
and cheese between 150 s. and
2745. per cwt. (N.Z. money).
Butter prices reached an all-
time peak of 4045. in December,
but fell sharply to 3605. in mid-
February. They were then still
275. per cwt. above where they
were at the corresponding time
last year, but a further decline
is likely. The falling market was
expected and is a reflection*of the
seasonal increase in the quantity
of butter arriving in Britain.
The cheese market has shown
a strong improvement, and is
expected to remain firm. At mid-
February the price was 2735. per
cwt., against 1535. per cwt. a year
previously. Maoriland cheese
prices in the first half of 1955
were forced to a low level by
the existence of huge Ministry of
Food stocks. Now that these
have been liquidated and fresh
supplies coming forward are less,
prices have risen.
Cost of Money
A good deal of attention con-
tinues to he concentrated on
interest-rates. The rise of one-
quarter per cent, in the maximum
average rate for bank-overdrafts
has been followed by higher rates
for fixed deposits. The 24-month
rate has been raised from 2 p.c.
to 2{ p.c. Upward adjustment of
post-office and other savings-
bank deposit- rates is long over-
due, and can be expected soon.
The maximum post-office rate at
present is p.c.; that is payable
only on the first £5OO deposited.
There is a strong feeling in
financial circles that the Govern-
ment is tackling the interest-rate
problem in a grudging spirit and
that much more than small piece-
meal increases will be necessary
if the inflationary pressures in
the economy are to be satisfac-
torily met.
Meantime, the National Provi-
dent Fund’s scheme to make the
limited supply of local-body
loan-money go further has come
into operation. Local bodies
may deposit in a pool money
which they have raised but do
not immediately require and
other local bodies may borrow
from the pool to meet their
urgent needs. Rates of interest
payable on money deposited
range from 1 p.c. for three
months to 3f p.c. for 24 months
and over. A scheme of a similar
nature was formerly operated by
a brokerage firm. The official
organisation of the pool will no
doubt be of some help to local
bodies, but their finance prob-
lems will not be solved while
their borrowing-rate is restricted
to 4i p.c. An increase is expected
as soon as the Government
decides what it is going to do
about its rate for conversion and
new loans this year.
(Finance continued on page 24)


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
'THAT the market prices the f.-p. £1
ords. of this young Australian giant
at 455. 6d. (335. 9d. a year ago) to give
an immediate return of no more than 3.9
p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis is a tribute to
the co.’s commercial standing, its financial
record, and its prospects. The investor
who looks for a moderate 5.2 p.c. on his
money counts on a 12 p.c. distribution,
which was nearly 1£ times covered by
last term’s net earnings. The 5 p.c. prefs.
at 19s. yield 5.3 p.c. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £lB 2s. sd. prefs. and
28s. 2d. ords. There is plenty of room
for a further lift in the div. —it was raised
from 8 p.c. to 9 p.c. last term —both on
the score of the statistical position, which
is historical, and on the near prospect of
continued improvement in profitable
operations.
The organisation, which extends
throughout Australia and New Zealand,
consists of parent co. —an offshoot of the
big 1.C.1., England—and 12 subsidiaries,
whose activities fall into four main
groups, namely chemical, explosives,
alkalis, plastics and dye-stuffs. The New
Zealand offshoot is for the most
part the distributing agent for
tjbe English and Australian pro-
ducing cos. The board has planned
well, and spent a lot of money on large,
first-class producing units, which have
been an important factor in enabling the
general level of the co.’s own selling-
prices to move steadily downward since
1953, while file Australian wholesale
price-index has continued to climb.
The policy has been to replace imports
by local manufacture. Since the public
first gained an equity interest in the busi-
ness in 1950, £10,676,008 of fresh share-
capital (£4,156,505), share - premiums
(£519,503) and debenture - money
(£6,000,000) has been gathered. A moder-
ate dividend policy has been followed,
the rate climbing from 5| p.c. in 1950 to
9 p.c. last term, average for the six years
being 7.2 p.c., which called for only 52.8
p.c. of the available profit. Over the same
period reserves shot up from £985,979 to
£4,971,436, and an aggregate r of
£5,027,426 was set aside for depreciation
of fixed assets. Paid capital now stands
at £13,150,000, of which £1,000,000 car-
ries a fixed cumulative 5 p.c. Both the
pref.- and debenture-moneys are earning
a lot more than their keep.
Buoyant trading conditions, together
with increased output from additional
plant and introduction of new lines, sent
last term’s turnover up by £1,037,000
(3.3 p.c.) to a record £32,443,000. All
sections of the undertaking contributed
to the improvement. Even more pleas-
ing was the spring of £405,226, or 23.5
p.c., in declared net earnings, which
reflects the management’s success in its
assault upon unit-costs by efficient con-
trol, research, work-study and staff-
training :
, Dividends N
Year, Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.t
£ £> & £> &
’52. .1,140,164 50,000 7 p.c. = 618,257 2,133,872
Reserve adjustments, £736,357 net 2,870,229
Added intangibles, £56,482 .. 2,813,747
’53. .1,229,048 50,000 7 p.c. = 705,797 3,286,998
From deferred tax res., £46,500 4,077,525
Unexplained reduction, £51,000 net 3,282,998
’54. .1,722,777 50,000 8 p.c. = 924,750 4,031,025
From deferred tax res., £46,500 4,077,525
Less added intangibles, £189,899 3,849,010
Unexplained addition, £137,923 .. 3,986,933
’55. .2,128,003 50,000 9 p.c.=1,093,500 4,971,436
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. f Deducting
intangibles (now £991,631).
Written after allowing £1,323,566 (up
£106,027) for depreciation and £1,808,587
(down £16,969) for taxation, the
£2,128,003 of profit covered the pref. div.
and 17.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against
14.4, 11.6, 12.3, 16.9 and 10.7 p.c. back
to 1950. That leaves out of the reckoning
various adjustments to the accounts inter-
fined in the table.
The addition to intangibles (£189,899)
and the unexplained addition to reserves
(£137,923) appear to have some connec-
tion with the purchase, at an unstated
figure, of more ord. shares, and with them
a controlling interest (69.9 p.c. of the
£2,000,000 of issued capital) in BALM
Paints Pty. To help finance the deal the
parent co. sold its holding in Metal
Manufacturers, Ltd., and increased its
holding in subsidiaries (in at cost) by
£674,170 net.
Net earnings have yet to receive full
benefit from this and other developments,
including a growing demand for soda-
ash and caustic-soda from the glass- and
soap-making industries, new petroleum
refineries and the aluminium project at
Bell Bay (Tas.). And sales of poly-
thene-film (for packaging foodstuffs), of
vinyl-film (plastic raincoats), of vinyl-
coated fabrics (car and furniture uphol-
stery), of titanium-dioxide pigments
(paints), and of insecticides and veterin-
ary drugs are all expected to increase, and
so are sales of 1.C.1.’s polyester-fibre,
“Terylene,” used in the textile-industry.
Also a £2\ million project for the manu-
facture of polythene locally will presently
pass from the blue-print to the construc-
tion stage.
The year’s net addition to freeholds,
plant, etc., was £1,021,505, to stocks
£763,866 and to book-debts £393,343:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £18,150,000 £13,15o!o00
Reserves 4,832,757 5,963,067
Debentures .. .. .. 6,000,000 6,000,000
Outside interests* .. .. 1,389,050 954,234
Overdraft 714,008 679,672
Creditors, etc 4,698,487 5,670,134
Taxation, etc. .. .. 3,778,690 3,927,289
Final div 528,505 676,583
£35,091,497 £37,020,929
Freeholds, plant, etc. .. 12,546,095 18,567,600
Stocks 11,756,475 12,520,341
Debtors 6,010,947 6,404,290
Shares, etc. .. .. .. 1,285,372 855,934
Cash, bonds 2,690,876 2,681,133
Intangibles .. .. .. 801,732 991,631
£35,091,497 £37,020,929
* Includes proportion reserves.
Part of the growth in fixed assets was
on account of the co.’s new biological-
research station at Croydon (Vic.) and
the central-research laboratory at Ascot
Yale (Vic.). The former is now staffed
and erection of the latter, expected to
cost about £500,000, is well under way.
The importance of research in this class
of business is thus obvious. To help meet
the year’s outlay shareholdings, etc., were
reduced by £429,438 and £971,647 was
added to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc.
H. C. Sleigh, Ltd.
THOUGH the co.’s earning-power lost
some of its vigor last term, available
profit was still at the very satisfactory
rate of 18.2 p.c. on the equity capital and
the 10 p.c. div., an annual event for the
last six years, has been sweetened (since
the close of accounts) with a one-for-five
new issue of 456,200 £1 ords. at a premium
of ss. each to those on the register at
October 6 last. The money, which is to
be used to lighten the outside debt and
finance the war at the petrol pump,
which means further expansion of the
business, will lift paid capital to
£3,337,200, of which £600,000 carries a
fixed cumulative 5 p.c. Since the pref.
div. and 10 p.c. to the ords. on that lot
will call for £140,382 less profit than was
won last term, it doesn’t seem too optimis-
tic to expect a lift in the dividend-rate
when conditions in the trade become more
settled and the new capital adds a little
grist to the mill.
Hence the market prices the f.-p. £1
ords. at 345. 9d. (335. a year ago) to give
an immediate return of 5.7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div., or 6.9 p.c. should the distri-
bution rise to 12 p.c. The prefs. at
15s. 4d. yield 6.5 p.c. Including the new
capital (£456,200) and share-premiums
(£114,050), net tangible cover is
£6 9s. lOd. prefs. and 265. 3d. ords.
Well spread throughout all the States
except Westralia, the business falls into
four main divisions: (1) importation and
distribution of petroleum and petroleum
products, (2) an import-export section
which handles primary and manufactured
products and trades mainly with the U.K.,
Europe, Middle East and Southern Asia,
(3) a merchandising department which
handles the co.’s own ana some agency
lines, and (4) a ship-chartering branch
which acts as general agents and brokers
for the chartering of tonnage, etc.
All sections are operating at a profit,
though rising costs and other things, in-
cluding keen competition, have narrowed
margins. The effects, however, have
been substantially offset by increased
turnover. Last term the co. sold a record
80,000,000-odd gallons of “Golden
Reece” petrol—previous year’s gallonage
not disclosed. One factor which helped
to boost sales was purchase, shortly
before the close of accounts in 1954, of
the N. S. Wales and Queensland subsi-
diaries of Purr Pull Oil Industries, Ltd.,
and with them marine terminals at Bris-
bane and Cairns, a number of country
bulk-depots, large delivery-fleets and
many retail-pump outlets in each State.
The net cost of this deal was £840,000 —
£lOO,OOO cash and the issue of 740,000 £1
ords. at a premium of 6.6 d. each. The
co.’s contracts with the Government for
supplies of turbine aviation (jet) and
other fuels, as well as oils, etc., to the air
force, navy, army and long-range weapons
project, together with continued growth
of ordinary public demand and erection
of new service stations helped to jack-up
turnover, too.
After allowing £346,194 (up £41,882)
for depreciation and £259,716 (up
£45,662) for taxation, the spring in net
earnings was £126,466:
Parent Co. Only.
Divs. —>
p re f To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. £ serves, serves.*
’52..116 Jl3 30,000 10 p.c.= 82,925 3,188 344,808
To staff fund, £5OOO 339,808
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Profit sale assets, £55,010 .. • • I
’53..190,066 30,000 10 p.c.=104,800 55,266 l 441114
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ••
W/off share exes., £6llO .. • • J
Share premiums, £71,599 net .. I
Profit sale assets, £7646 .. • •
Unexplained addition, ££240.. l 676,923
’54..317,636 30,000 10 p.c.=121,964 165,682 (
To staff fund, £BOOO .. ••
W/off share exes., £7358 .. ..J
Profit sale assets, £36,064 .. • • I
Unexplained addition, £669 .. l 877.916
’55..444,102 30,000 10 p.c.=226,842 187,260 I
To staff fund, £23,000.. .. .-J
* Subject to intangibles (now £.134,982), and
excluding staff contingency reserve (£50,106).
The £444,102 of profit was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 18.2 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 23.5 p.c. and 21.6
p.c. for the two preceding years. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was a healthy
11.8 p.c. Thus appearances are that the
£2,536,882 of pref., mortgage, long-term
loan and bank money in the business at
June 30 last was making a handsome con-
tribution to the pool for the ords.
All-round growth of the undertaking is
the feature of balance-sheet figures:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Preference .. .. £600,000 £600,000
Ordinary .. .. 2,184,480 2,281,000
Reserves .. .. .. 676,923 877,916
Outside interests.. .. 3,413 3,606
Mortgages .. .. 508,800 585,100
Long-term loan ~ .. 447,410 657,493
Overdraft . . .. 213,092 694,289
Creditors 1,890,888 2,250,557
Tax provision .. .. 451,718 872,890
Staff funds .. .. 27,431 50,106
Final divs .. .. 136,954 241,842
£7,141,109 £8,614,799
Freeholds .. .. 981,474 1,514,805
Leaseholds .. .. 227,960 271,602
Plant, etc. .. .. 3,208,267 3,496,920
Shares other cos. .. 3,052 7,926
Stocks 1,444,471 1,702,186
Debtors 1,108,625 1,460,538
Cash 46,033 25,840
Intangibles .. .. 121,227 134,982
£7,141,109 £8,614,799
To help meet net additions totalling to
£1,475,254 to fixed assets (up £865,626),
stocks (up £257,715) and book-debts (up
£351,913) the co. added £1,127,249 to
the outside debt, raising it to £4,187,439,
equal to 225. 3d. for every £ belonging
to shareholders in the business at June
30 last. The new share-issue should help
to ease the position in this respect.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
THE experience of shareholders in this
old-established softgoods wholesaler
has not been a fortunate one. Of recent
years, however, the outlook for the busi-
ness has improved, following changes in
the nature and origin of merchandise
handled, and the co.’s entry into the
retail field, where a subsidiary, Hustlers
Pty., now operated a chain of 33 drapery
stores in Victoria, N. S. Wales, South
Australia and the A.C.T. Six of the 33
shops were opened last term, and three
since the close of accounts.
After transfer of headquarters from
London to Melbourne in 1919, much of
the co.’s former trade in imported soft-
goods began to slip away, due to growth
of the Australian textile trade and the
fact that specialty-houses and the big
department- and chain-stores began to
import direct. Then slump, exchange and
the tariff put the finishing touches to the
gradually changing trend.
In 1934 the co. trimmed its
sails by clipping ss. (£152,218)
off each £1 ord. share, repay-
ing the debenture debt (£150,000, held in
London) and returning £162,500 of pref.
capital. Stocks and book-debts were
worked down for the purpose. That re-
duced paid capital to £744,277, including
£287,500 of 6 px. pref. money, of which
£lOO,OOO was returned in 1941. The total
figure remained at £644,277 until 1948.
Since then the pref. shares have been con-
verted into ords., and the total on the
register has climbed to £1,462,500, mostly
by par issues, last of which was one-for-
five (243,750 £1 shares) in November,
1954. The new capital has been used for
all-round expansion of the business, in-
cluding development of branded proprie-
tary lines and extension of retail trading.
The ords. received an average of 7.3
p.c. for the decade to 1929, but went
hungry for the next seven years. They
came back into the picture with 2\ p.c.
in 1937, and have remained there since,
the rate climbing to 12 p.c. in 1951 fol-
lowed by two lots of 6 p.c. and two of
10 p.c. to the close of last accounts.
For the 12 months to July 31 last both
wholesale and retail turnovers increased,
especially in proprietary lines. Still, after
allowing £47,651 (up £6105) for deprecia-
tion and £149,305 (up £22,488) for taxa-
tion, there was a slip of £61,631 in net
earnings. But that was mainly because
the 1954 profit included 17 months’ trad-
ing by the subsidiary, whose balancing
date was changed, and also benefited by
a lower tax charge on account of the
losses in 1952 and 1953:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
July 19, Profit. f —Dividends. serves. serves.*
£ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £1986 .. .. 1,286 113
Tax overprovided, £22,351 .. 1,290,464
Unexplained reduction, £4423 .. 1,286,041
'5l .. 312,930 12 p.e.=131,685 181,245 1,467,286
Profit sale assets, £2782 .. .. 1,470,068
Tax overprovided, £25,611 .. 1,495,679
Unexplained addition, £2925 .. R 498,604
% Loss.
’52 . . 35,991 6 p.c.s= 73,125 1,389,488
Profit sale assets, £8066 .. .. 1,397,554
From inner reserves, £175,059 .. 1,572,613
*53 .. 12,675 6 p.c.= 73,125 1,486,913
Profit sale assets, £11,675 .. .. 1,498,588
Written off subsidiary, £6580 .. 1,492,008
Long-service leave, £40,000 .. 1,452,008
Unexplained reduction, £21,449 .. 1,430,559
July 31, Profit. ' ’
’64 .. 302,517 10 p.c.=121,875 180,642 1,611,201
Profit sale assets, £7960 .. .. 1,619,167
Long-service leave, £5OOO .. .. 1,614,167
Unexplained reduction, £9684 .. 1 604,483
’55 .. 240,086 10 p.c.=146,250 93,836 L 698.319
* Subject to intangibles, £72,178 at 31/7/’55.
The £240,086 of profit, which leaves out
of the reckoning items interlined in the
table, was 16.4 p.c. on capital as against
24.8 p.c. for the previous term and losses
aggregating £48,566 for the two before
that, when earnings (parent co. in par-
ticular) were hit by the fall in prices,
buyer resistance and rising costs which
followed the balance-of-payments crisis.
In 1953 the co. reduced stocks
by £1,788,783 and wiped-out the
overdraft (£2,127,091 at the previous
balance). At the same time £175,059 of
inner reserves (mainly in respect of
debtors’ balances) were disclosed. The
resilience of net earnings since suggests
that the adjustment of stock-values in the
books was prompt and adequate.
Ihe financial position strengthened,
the improvement in the more-or-less liquid
surplus, or working capital (£2,448,073)
being £230,728:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
„ , 1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £1,218,750 £1,218,750 £1,462,500
Reserves .. .. 1,486,913 1,611,201 1,698,319
Mortgage .. . . 115,000 115,000 125,000
Overdraft .. .. 8,991 215,946 726,309
Creditors, etc. .. 603,538 1,353,361 580,091
Staff leave .. 39,089 42,163
Tax provision .. 29,000 107,401 159,068
Final div. .. 73,125 85,312 102,375
£3,595,317 £4,746,060 £4,895,825
Freehold, etc. .. 358,578 365,192 419,642
Fittings, etc. .. 134,459 173,650 216,299
Shares .. .. 4,667 4,627 4,627
Stock, etc. .. 2,136,592 3,051,807 3,021,616
Debtors .. .. 799,367 1,049,029 1,150,901
Surplus account .. 45,041
Cash, bonds .. 55,203 31,918 10,562
Intangibles .. 61,410 69,237 72,178
£3,595,317 £4,746,060 £4,895,825
The £243,750 of fresh capital together
with an extra £510,363 from the bank
and surplus earnings, etc., was used
mainly to lop £773,270 off the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., and
carry £101,272 more stocks. The growth
in freeholds, etc. (up £54,450) and fittings,
etc. (up £42,649) was chiefly on account
of new stores opened by the retail sub-
sidiary.
Since a high proportion of the goods
now handled is bought on the local
market, import-restrictions are not ex-
pected to have a marked influence on
turnover. The wholesale trade has held
well since the close of accounts, but that
of country stores has tended to ease,
owing to credit-restriction, which is
delaying settlement of accounts.
The f.-p. £1 shares at 245. Id. (255. 6d.
a year ago) return 8.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 365. 4d.j
Stott & Underwood, Ltd.
PERFORMANCES of this relatively
small but old-established distributor
of typewriters, calculating-machines and
other aids to office efficiency, have been
disappointing since the public became
interested in 1951. Certainly more than
enough has been earned to pay a steady
10 p.c. div., but the profit has come down
by annual steps from £28,160 in 1952 to
£14,340 last term, when the shrinkage
was £2282:
May To Re- Re-
-31. Profit. t —Dividends serves Berves.*
£, £ £ £
1951.. 21,876 10 p.c. = 7,116 14,760 62,379
Unexplained addition, £152 .. .. 62,531
1952.. 28,160 10 p.c. = 9,000 19,160 81,691
To retiring allowance, £4OOO .. 77,691
1953.. 20,012 10 p.c. = 9,000 11,012 88,703
Tax overprovided, £352 .. .. 89,0 w
Profit sale shares, £899 .. •• 89,951
1954.. 16,622 10 p.c. = 9,000 7,622 97,5<6
June,
Tax overprovided, £154 .. .. 97,<30
1955.. 14,340 10.8 p.c. = 10,725 3,615 101,34 a
•Subject to intangibles, £9OOO, 31/5/’54.
The period covered by the latest
accounts was 13 months, so the 10.8 p.c.
div. was at the rate of 10 p.c. p.a. The
£14,340 of profit claimed was 14.4 p.c. on
average capital as against 18.4, 22.2, 32
and 24.3 p.c. back to 1951.
The recent increase in nominal capital
from £150,000 to £500,000 and mainten-
ance of the div. at 10 p.c. suggest the
board considers the worst of the co. s


ELECTRIC
LIFTS
HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States.
Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
25
How to enjoy a glass
of Bell’s
m'
mm
mm
m
m
m
mmSm
m
m
m
m
mm
m
m
i
m
m
555
mm
m
5«
Wm
M
n
lEH
! ■ ,
mmMmm
52
Sniff it. . • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it. . • Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
1)17¥ ¥ OLD SCOTCH
BJjJLJL kJ WHISKY
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd, • Distillers, Perth, Scotland • Est. 1823
2
BEIXS
cotcl. Ift
-ZtLJSJt'J*'
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—AnVT.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), E. R. KNOX, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
R. J. VICARS, A. H. DICKINS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
36in.
mm
HA
\ rfr ft
4
m
: rr
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot*
water systems and Household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
*Co/dßubber*
Another Goodyear
i
First with “Cold
Rubber’s” miracle
mileage figures! First
with “Cold Rubber’s”
extra toughness to
combat the rugged-
ness of Australian
roads and offer their
greatest mileage
potential ever.
Up to 22% More Mileage
The more compact tyre tread rubber resists road abrasion as
never before . . . transforms itself into thousands of extra
miles of cost-reducing wear.
Greater Safety "Cold Rubber" has a mole-
cular structure twice as compact as other rubber
reduces puncture and blowout risk to absolute minimum.
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS
and Tyres-with-Tubes with "COLD RUBBER"
y i2i b
troubles have been left behind.
To provide more working-capital
and lighten the outside debt,
180,000 new ss. ords. were issued
at par, one-for-two, about three
months before the books were
ruled off. That raised paid capital
to £135,000, on which 10 p.c.
would call for all but £B4O of last
term’s profit.
A heartening feature is that the
physical volume of sales has kept
on increasing. The things which
have hamstrung net earnings!
have been a readjustment of
agencies, extension of the busi-
ness to Victoria and Tasmania,
the training of additional sales-
staff and the inevitable disloca-
tion and' expense associated
therewith. In 1953 the co. relin-
quished its N. S. Wales agency
for Addressograph Multigraph
Corp. (U.S.) and took over the
Victorian and Tasmanian fran-
chises for the products of Under-
wood Corp. (U.S.), Block and
Anderson, Ltd. (U.K.) and
Original-Odhner (Sweden). It
already held the N.S.W. fran-
chises for the products of these
cos. A small subsidiary renders
specialised engineering services.
The Melbourne branch, which
earned but little profit last term,
is expected to make a much
better showing at next balance.
Overall net earnings are reported
to have picked-up toward and
since the close of accounts, and
a new branch was recently
opened at Port Kembla. Subject
to the effects of import-restric-
tions, not expected to be severe,
maintenance of the 10 p.c. div.
may not prove beyond reach.
The financial position im-
proved : —•
1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. .. £90,000 £135,000
Reserves .. .. 97.57 G 101,345
Mortgage .. .. 49,813 49,462
Overdraft .. . . 109,321 65,512
Creditors, tax pro-
vision .. .. 48,136 74,662
Final divs. .. .. 4,500 6,225
£399,346 £432,206
Freehold .. .. 98,335 98,335
Plant, vehicles . . 38;743 41,079
Shares in subsids. .. 1,005 1,005
Stock . . . . 154,831 187,504
Debtors . . . . 96,843 93,374
Cash, prepayments .. 589 1,909
Goodwill .. .. 9,000 9,000
£399,346 £432,206
The £45,000 of new capital,
together with an extra £26,526
from sundry creditors, etc., was
used mainly to reduce the over-
draft (down £43,809) and carry
more stocks (up £32,673).
The market sums up the risks
by pricing the f.-p. ss. shares at
ss. 6d. to return 9.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 7.3 .p.c.
should the rate drop to 8 p.c.
Net tangible' cover is Bs. 9d.
Mary Kathleen Uranium
This is the co. from which the
British Government, with the
enthusiastic blessing of the Com-
monwealth Government and
others, has just agreed to buy at
least £40,000,000 - worth of
uranium-oxide over the next
seven or eight years.
It all came about in this way.
The co. was formed in 1954 by
A.O.E. to buy the Mary Kath-
leen leases (N.Q.) from the
Walton - McConachy syndicate
for £250,000. Later A.O.E. and
Petroleum Drilling decided to
jointly form a £2,500,000 treat-
ment co. to process the ore —a
totally inadequate proposal. In
March, 1955, Rio Tinto (London)
was induced to come in, complete
the exploration programme —
which it did at a cost of about
£3oo,ooo—and erect a treatment-
plant, etc., if results warranted.
Rio formed a subsidiary, Rio
Tinto (Aust.) Pty., to handle the
projett, which it has been now
decided to bring to full-scale pro-
duction by installation of the
necessary plant, etc. Meanwhile,
Rio steered the negotiations with
the British Government, and its
Australian offshoot acquired 56
p.c. of issued capital of the Mary
Kathleen co., in which A.O.E.
now holds about 35 p.c. and
the syndicate 9 p.c.
Construction of the treatment-
plant, township, a 3500-million-
gallon reservoir, roads, airstrip,
etc., is expected to cost upwards
of £8,500,000, which Rio has
agreed to find on a secured and
redeemable basis at 6 p.c. p.a. up
to £9,000,000. Ore-treatment is
expected to begin not later than
early 1959.
Arrangements have also been
made for the Mary Kathleen
plant to treat a “certain amount”
of outside ore, which is presum-
ably to be included in the con-
tract already referred to. Also,
the U.K. authorities have agreed
with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment to buy £20,000,000-worth
of uranium-oxide to be produced
from ore from the South Alli-
gator River area (N.T.), provided
the cos. concerned prove, by the
end of 1957, that they have
enough ore of millable-grade to
fulfil the contract. N.A.U.C.,
in which the Atlas co. of New
York holds a 50 p.c. interest, and
several other cos. have large
leases in this area.
The price to be paid for the
oxide by the U.K. has not been
disclosed, but is said to be based
on a cost-plus-satisfactory-return-
to-the-seller basis. It is not yet
clear whether those on A.O.E.’s
register will be asked to assist
ultimately. A.O.E. will be
entitled to about 35 p.c. of Mary
Kathleen’s profits, after pro-
vision has been made for repay-
ment of redeemable capital, plus
interest thereon. Greatest im-
mediate benefit goes to Petroleum
Drilling Corp., which has pulled
a £315,000 compensation plum
out of the pie.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
All the talk this week has been of sun-
spots, luxury-hotels, French fashions,
elections, the price of tea (down two-
pence), the price of eggs (up sixpence),
how to get rid of mildew-stains, and the
“new season’s line.”
The hotels sound very grand. The
first, proposed by a Mr. John Houser
representing the American Hilton Hotels,
will cost three-million-pounds and will
have 400 bedrooms. The only trouble is
that the three-million-pounds has yet to
be found, but once that little thing has
been fixed-up, tourist-trade in Sydney
should improve considerably. Mr.
Houser has seen three suitable sites in the
city, and doesn’t seem to worry that
they’re all built on.
The other proposed hotels are at Potts
Point and at Manly. The one at Potts
Point is to have a car-park, open-air
lounges (with swimming-pools) and a
dining-room with a glass roof through
which the diners may watch swimmers
in a pool above. It is to be built on the
site of the present Cairo private-hotel.
Perhaps these new ventures in Aus-
tralian hotelkeeping will also include
(one thinks wistfully) a reading-lamp for
every bed, an ashtray in every room, even
maybe a wastepaper-basket. Perhaps
there will be a telephone in each room,
too, and when one lifts the receiver
someone will answer it. Also, the waffs
might be soundproof, so that one cannot
hear the conversations in the room next-
door, and there might not be any fan-
lights through which the hall-light will
shine directly on the would-be sleeper’s
eyes. The h. and c. in the bedrooms will
perhaps be connected by pipes which do
not go gurgle-gurgle-gulp in the stiff of
the night, there may be fruit for break-
fast (not prunes), the morning-tea may
be brought in a pot on a tray, and the tea
might be hot.
☆ ☆ ☆
Portraits of Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere,
Mrs. Tom Bateman and Mrs. John Flynn
were the main points of interest in the
art-show and cocktail-party which Sig-
nora Aldo di Francesco gave for a num-
ber of their friends at her Darling Point
flat on Saturday. Signora di Francesco
came from Venice to Sydney (where her
husband is lecturer in Italian at the uni-
versity) three years ago, but says she has
been painting in good earnest only since
she and her husband found their present
home, where there is splendid light and
a stimulating view over the harbor.
☆ ☆ ☆
Monday, March 12, will mark the 71st
anniversary of the departure of the
Soudan Contingent in 1885, of which
today there remain but five survivors,
veterans C. Wearne, R. Ashworth, P.
McCabe, F. Rauchle, P. Douglas. A
remembrance reunion will be held in
the afternoon at C.E.N.E.F. auditorium,
and will be attended by the Governor,
Sir John Northcott.
# # #
Preparation for a gay season are
afoot. Although it has been decided not
to hold a Red Cross Ball this year,
inaugural committee - meetings have
already been held for the International
Ball (set down for August 2) and the
Elizabethan Ball (scheduled for mid-
September).
President of the Elizabethan Ball this
year is Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, with Lady
Boyer as deputy-president. Following
Mrs. Dekyvere’s advice that it is wise to
have two appointments for executive
positions, Mrs. Hans Tronser and Mrs.
George Sample have been elected secre-
taries, with Mrs. H. C. Coombs as
treasurer and Mrs. D. Ball as ticket-
secretary.
For the International Ball, of which
Mrs. C. M. Guiney is president, there
are three secretaries: Mrs. F. Groth,
Mrs. Des O’Shea and Mrs. Ken Point-
ing. Mr. C. R. McKerihan is treasurer,
and Mrs. R. Lay will be in charge of the
international table-decorations, always
a feature of the ball. The Pageant of the
Nations, to be included again this year,
will be organised by Mrs. Lucille Rath.
Meanwhile there are two always-en-
joyable dances quite close at hand. The
Loreto Ex-students’ Annual Ball at the
Trocadero on March 19 will be one of the
first to welcome-in the new season. Mrs.
L. W. Ritchie is the president, and the
debutantes will be received by Air-Vice-
Marshal A. L. Walters and Mrs. Walters.
The Town and Country Ball, one of
the glamor-events of the Easter season,
will be held at Prince’s on Wednesday,
March 28. Executive-members of the
committee assisting the president, Mrs.
Clinton Ayers, are Mrs. W. MacPhillamy,
Mrs. J. Austin, Mrs. C. Parsons, jnr.,
Mrs. J. D. Hemphill, Mrs. D. M. Osborne
and Mrs. W. F. Gordon. Proceeds from
this ball are in aid of the Smith Family.
Many people in academic circles, as
well as in advertising and fashion, will be
interested to learn that Miss Amy Cump-
ston’s first book of poems, “Human, My
Race” (Pacific Press), has just been
published.
An M.A. from Sydney University,
Miss Cumpston (in private life Mrs.
Frank McGrath ) was for 10 years p.-r.
officer and advertising-manager of a
large firm manufacturing sportswear.
Since the birth of her daughter Rosalind,
now 15 months old, she has devoted her-
self to household duties and to writing.
She is a member of a family famous
academically. Her father, Dr. J. H. L.
Cumpston, Director-General of Health in
Canberra for 34 years, was the author
of books on Australian explorers Sturt
and Mitchell, and of a third yet unpub-
lished; her sister Mary, formerly with
the Department of External Affairs, is
now a lecturer in history at London Uni-
versity ; her brother John, a Doctor of
Letters from Melbourne University, is
Australian Consul in New Caledonia,
and two other brothers, Bruce and Alan,
are doctors in general practices. Amy is
a prolific writer of short poems, from
which those in “Human, My Race” have
been selected, and has written two verse-
plays, both on historical subjects. Photo
by Norton-Trevaire.
Some turns of speech which are per-
fectly clear to those who speak English
as their mother-tongue completely con-
fuse those who are just learning. In-
stance the New Australian who said in
a bewildered way, “The tram-conductor
says my stop is not the next one but the
next one! What can he mean?”
* ☆ ☆
Good times must be coming back if
the giving-away of sample-packets of
things is any sort of a reliable straw-in-
the-wind. During the week have come to
hand a packet of breakfast-crackles, a
packet of cigarettes (“Smoke them for a
week and you’ll never smoke any other”)
and an envelope of cleansing-powder
(“Please use this”). If this goes on,
before long we’ll be back to the days
when the baker gave out little French-
rolls free, the grocer gave the children a
bag of sweets when the bill was paid and
the butcher actually delivered the meat.
* ☆ ☆
One of the Garden Club’s projects for
1956 is a garden for the blind, full of
sweet-scented flowers. Plans are just
being made, but it is thought that Phillip
Park, which is next-door to the Royal
Blind Society in William-Street, will be
the site of the garden. The City Council
is said to be interested in the idea, but
as yet no definite decisions have been
made.
February 29 went off very quietly,
especially when compared with the
goings-on it occasions in Denmark. By
Danish tradition, it is reported, a girl
can propose to a man on sight on Leap
Year Day, and if he refuses he must give
her a dozen pairs of gloves. (In Aus-
tralia you have to know the man and he
is only up for one pair of gloves if he
refuses!) This year Copenhagen spinsters,
67 strong, invaded a near-by island
which is known as Bachelor Island be-
cause so many of its men are single. The
men were armed with a dozen pairs of
gloves each and told to “resist to the last,”
but when the spinsters returned to Copen-
hagen they reported one wedding, one
engagement and 15 girls missing.
MELBOURNE
Biggest do of the week was the Aus-
tralian-American Association’s luncheon
in the Royale Ballroom, when 500 guests
were present. Guests-of-honor —the
president of Pan-American Airways, Mr.
Juan Trippe, and his board of directors
and their wives—were received by the
chairman of the association, Sir John
Latham, and Lady Latham. Also assist-
ing with their reception was Mrs. R. G.
Casey, president of the Women’s Group
of A.A.A.
In the official party were Sir Edmund
and Lady Herring, Minister for Trans-
port Warner and Mrs. Warner, and the
acting Consul-General for the U.S.A.,
Mr. Givon Parsons, and Mrs. Parsons.
The Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck) was
also an official guest.
Mrs. Juan Trippe was smart in a black-
and-white printed-cotton frock and a
black eye-veil. Mrs. W. J. Mullahey, of
Honolulu, on her first visit to this country,
chose a very attractive ensemble of ink-
blue silk, spotted in lighter blue and
topped with a white curvette. Mrs.
Clarence Young, here on her second visit
in four months, is the well-known TV
actress Lois Moran ; her husband is vice-
president of the Pacific-Alaska division
of P.A.A.
Among those who came to greet the
visitors were Mrs. W. W. Killaugh, wear-
ing a wedgwood-blue linen frock with
tiny bows scattered over the full skirt;
Mrs. John Mack (Macedon), whose choice
was a beige-nylon frock patterned in
flowers in autumn-tonings; and Mrs.
Frank Marland, whose frock of leaf-
brown guipure-lace was on slim lines,
with fullness below the knees achieved by
inlet godets. Mrs. Marion Smith was
accompanied by her new daughter-in-
law,. Mrs. Bernard Smith, who chose a
natural guipure-lace frock and small
brown hat. Others present were Mrs.
Angus Jones, Mrs. Alex Finlay (whose
trip abroad with her husband has been
cancelled by her father’s illness), and
Mrs. Joseph Weidenmayer (whose choice
was a pastel-pink silk frock with finely-
pleated skirt, topped with a very tiny hat
of white straw). With Mr. Basil Murphy
was his wife, Dr. Deborah Buffer Murphy.
☆ ☆ ☆
Guests at the delightful dinner-party
given by Mr. and Mrs. S. Aarons at their
East St. Kilda home enjoyed not only
the delectable dinner cooked by the
hostess but also the colored movies,
taken by the host on their recent travels.
Pictures included shots* of Switzerland,
Honolulu, America and London. Mrs.
Aarons chose a smart black-chiffon frock
with a finely-pleated skirt. Among the
guests were Dr. and Mrs. L. Joel (the
doctor also showed pictures of Heron
Island, taken when he and his wife spent
a holiday there), Dr. and Mrs. W. McDer-
mott, and Mr. E. Haisman.
\
☆ ☆ ☆
For her marriage at South Yarra
Presbyterian Church to Sydney medico
Dr. Tim Furber, Judith Holden, daughter
of Mrs. Ken Guest, of Eltham, and the
late Captain L. H. Holden, wore a long-
sleeved gown of oyster-white French-
silk taffeta with the bodice of guipure-
lace encrusted with pearls and opalescent-
sequins. Her fingertip tulle veil fell
from a pearl coronet. Her sister, Mrs.
Nigel Boyd Graham, was matron-of-
honor, and Gwen Trescowthick was
bridesmaid. Their ballerina-frocks of
oyster-white French-silk taffeta were cut
on princess-lines, with very full, stiffened
skirts. They wore Alice-in-Wonderland
diamente bands in their hair. The ’groom,
who is the son of Dr. and Mrs. T.
Maynard Furber, of Sydney, had his
brother, Dr. John Furber, as best man,
and Harry Long as groomsman. The
reception at Menzies Hotel was attended
by 100 guests.
Mrs. John Carrodus gave a luncheon
at her East Malvern home to assist the
funds of the South Yarra Auxiliary to
the Y.W.C.A. Among her guests were
Mrs. Erwin Fauser (president of the
group), Mrs. J. M. Saunders, Mrs. D.
Welsh, Mrs. J. K. Cokefair, Mrs. P.
Keen, Mrs. S. Aarons, Mrs. W. B.
Faulkner and Mrs. Bettie Fitzgerald.
☆ ☆ -iV
Plans are already well advanced
for the Dogura Fair to be held at the
home of Dr. and Mrs. W. T. Agar, 14
Studley Park-road, Kew, on April 28 to
raise funds for the extension of work
of the Dogura Hospital in New Guinea.
Miss Jane Muntz, of the Royal Victorian
College of Nursing, is president of the
committee, and Mrs. H. G. Connell is
hon. organiser. Colonel J. Bowe,
Matron-in-chief of the Royal Australian
Army Nursing Corps, is a member of
the committee ; Miss Eileen Heegan is
hon. secretary, and Mrs. R. S. Hart hon.
treasurer. A novel idea will be the
Children’s Corner, where a trained
kindergartner will keep the children
occupied while mothers are busy buying
at the produce-, book- and art-stalls. Sir
Peter McCallum, patron, will officially
open the fair at 2.30 p.m.
☆ ☆ ☆
Claridge’s, newly decorated, opened
with a gala-night. Minister for Immigra-
tion Harold Holt and his wife (she
wearing a short bouffant frock of
stiffened white faille patterned in glow-
ing pink roses and trailing sequinned
green leaves) were there. They were in
a large party arranged by Mr. and Mrs.
Harry Long to farewell Mrs. Charles
Lane, who leaves shortly for a holiday in
Trinidad. Another party included Mr.
and Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss and Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Watts. Mrs. Walter Ebstein
wore a lovely finely-pleated orchid-pink
organza coat over a short bouffant black-
taffeta frock. Mrs. Michael Cavanaugh
(Ararat) wore a short frock of white
patterned in China-blue. Mrs. Harry
Cavanaugh’s short black Chantilly-lace
frock was worn over white taffeta. A
striking sheath of orchid-pink satin, slit
at both sides of the very slim skirt, was
worn by Mrs. Claudia Crewwick. Jill
Daveren’s short black pleated frock
carried a sash and a large bow of black
silk taffeta.
Judith Mary, only child of Mrs. Edward
Bannon, of Armadale, and the late Dr.
Bannon, formerly of Warrnambool, has
announced her engagement to Christo-
pher Beecroft, youngest son of Sir John
and Lady Allison. Judith, who was
educated at Sacre Cceur, went on to
Invergowrie to be instructed in domestic
duties. Christopher was educated at Mel-
bourne Church of England Grammar
School. Judith is wearing a ring com-
posed of a square-cut emerald, sur-
rounded with diamonds. Plans for the
marriage later in the year are now in
progress.
In the bush-setting of the home of Dr.
and Mrs. Rex Walpole, of Box Hill, the
Raveloe Auxiliary of the Animal Welfare
League held a barbecue. Both setting
and night were perfect, and pretty cotton
frocks were worn. President Mrs. David
Warford-Mein was present with her
husband, and other committee-members
accompanied by their husbands were
Mrs John Warlow, Mrs. Derek Rumbold
and‘Mrs. Allan Wright—all three were
ticket-secretaries for the barbecue.
Others present included Barbara Murray
Smith, Margaret Jupp, Mrs. John Morgan,
Mrs. Eric Fullarton and Mr. and Mrs.
Len Bennie.


Cl/ARD
suMth/ cu
PROTECTA
stmt-M Rigi.
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE *
I'ERTU ,
W. C. Penfold
, Norman
• Va
. Docket B
Si Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bros. Pty. Ltd.
rdon Price Ltd.
ook Co. (AuU
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
$
r\ n
4
□
l
HBMBWB
AVIATION'
9
SERVICE
Operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LTD
An Associate of
The British Petroleum
Company Limited, London
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Mozart in Melbourne
Mozart was 35 when he died.
He wrote such an incredible
amount of music in all sorts of
forms and for so many instru-
ments and voices in that short
time that a dozen festivals could
be given in his honor without
repeating a single item.
It was apparently a simple
matter for him to write one
symphony after another. He had
his mental distresses —poverty,
neglect, self-pity, a wife and
other matters but he poured
them all into his music, which is
why it is alternately gay and
tragic.
Sir Bernard Heinze’s delicate
appreciation of Mozart seems to
include an understanding of these
things, and his selections for the
Mozart Festival at Melbourne
Town Hall reflected all the
moods of the composer. His
conducting of the Symphony No.
40 in G Minor was enchanting,
and the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra responded in a spirit
that seemed to satisfy the con-
ductor.
Soprano Glenda Raymond
sang “Whither I’m Going I
Know Not” and “My Last Hope
Vanished,” from a forgotten
opera, in a voice that was full
of charm, though it lacked
volume —there were some tasks
that Mozart set her which few
mortals could manage.
Ronald Woodcock essayed the
Violin Concerto No. 3 in G
Major, which Mozart is said to
have written for his own use.
The Sydney violinist played it
with great skill and some fire and
boldness. Visiting English pianist
Irene Kohler played correctly,
with score, the Concerto No. 19
in F Major.
The “Jupiter” Symphony was
the big occasion, but the choicest
items were the lovely little bits
written for oboes, clarinets and
horns, and instruments of that
sort. The exquisite performance
by Thomas Wightman of the
solo part in the concerto for
bassoon and orchestra elevated
that lowly instrument into a
new class. There was no instru-
ment existing in his time that
Mozart wasn’t interested in: if
he had been in Australia he
would probably have written a
concerto for orchestra and bull-
roarer.
♦> ❖ *l*
Gafni
The Hungarian tenor has con-
tinued to demonstrate in his
Sydney season that the two years
he spent off the concert-platform
were put to good use, particularly
in regard to interpretation.
He has been especially impres-
sive in the 17th- and 18th-century
Italian songs—Alessandro Scar-
latti’s fine song “O Cessate,” in
which legato passages are mixed
with sudden changes of tempo,
and Monteverdi’s “Lasciatemi
Morire,” its phrasing and tone-
shading first-rate. Durante’s
“Vergin, Tutto Amor,” set to a
grovelling plea for mercy by a
sinner, carried less conviction,
but in Pergolesi’s “Nina” the
swelling, ascending scales carried
just the right weight for this plea
of a lover for the awakening of
his beloved.
The best declamatory singing
the tenor has produced was in
Eleazor’s aria from Halevy’s
little-heard opera “La Juive,” in
which the Jew hurls defiance at
his Christian captors before he
is cast into boiling oil. Gafni
sang this with rafter-shaking
head-notes. Though his poker-
face reflected none of it, there
was a good quota of warmth
and emotion in the “Portrait”
aria from “The Magic Flute” —
and, surprisingly, Mozartian
delicacy, too. The lush “Una
Furtiva Lagrima” was good bel
canto singing.
Some of the icy grief was miss-
ing from Schubert's “My
Abode,” but in the same com-
poser’s “The Lover’s Pledge”
the lilting optimism was better
conveyed.
Gafni’s Neopolitan folk-songs
are delivered with an Italianate
air—the popular “A Vuchella,”
the joyous “Siamo Paissn,” in
which love and fishing-bait are
delightfully mixed, and the
rhapsodic “Chi se ne scorda
chiu.” The high-speed intricacies
of Aaron Copland’s nonsensical
“I Bought Me a Cat” were
delivered in tiptop English.
* *t* &
Melbourne Tiv.
The stage at Melbourne Tiv.
has been half-frozen —or, rather,
half the stage is frozen and the
other half remains the same old
boards that were trod by Little
Tich and Harry Lauder and Mo
and Nellie Stewart.
In the current show the
wooden part is stood- and
walked-on by Barry Rugless, a
Sydney nightclub entertainer
who mimes well; Jack Powell,
who rattles drumsticks on any
surface from fryingpans to
tables; Rih-Aruso, an Austrian
cyclist who rides pushbikes on
air; and comedians Joy and Joe
Lawman.
Behind these worthies Adele
Inge, Reg Park, Billy Rayes and
Doris Faye, Barbara Howe,
Romano and Maureen, Wim de
Jong and the Tiv. lovelies slither
about the ice cutting geometrical
figures which make the gestures
of the boardwalk-entertainers
seem clumsy.
The final ballet, “Mont-
martre,” is also the most
ambitious. It contains the Dance
of the Apaches, wherein Wim
de Jong and Dorothy Hickey
play the parts of sentimental and
sadistic male and masochistic
female with all necessary
savagery and violence —though
the edge is taken off their fury
by the delicate grace of their
skating.
♦♦♦ *
“I Have Been Here Before”
Put on under the astute direc-
tion of Leila Blake, J. B.
Priestley’s “time-study” “I Have
Been Here Before” was pre-
sented at Sydney’s Adyar Hall
“in the round” centrally
staged, with audience sitting
around as though in a knitting-
circle.
Experimenting with Priestley’s
experiments is not a bad way of
rejuvenating some interest in
them, and Miss Blake brought
it off very well, skilfully
manipulating her characters
within the confines of the
restrictive setting.
Gustl Korner plays the
mysterious old German pro-
fessor who comes to a little old
pub on the moors in the north
of England, there finds the
people whom, in his madden-
ingly mysterious way, he had
expected to find, and then sees
them work-out their lives on the
pattern he expects.
What Mr. Priestley means by
it all doesn’t matter particularly
—it has its dramatic values, and
Owen Weingott, who seems con-
tent these days to make an
occasional appearance if only
to prove he’s one of the best
actors about the place, does just
that again as the drinking,
nervy executive whose wife
skedaddles with the young
schoolteacher —just as the pro-
fessor expected or intended.
Judi Griffiths, as the wife,
Leon Peers, as the teacher, and
Betty Dyson and Edward
Hepple, as the English pub-folk,
are all very good.
Artbursts
Surrealism
Confronted by four masklike
faces on pillars, accompanied by
a crescent moon, two fish and a
youth and maiden in slacks, the
art-lover might be tempted to
lament once more the “meaning-
lessness” of surrealism: but in
the little card beside this picture
in her exhibition at Morgan’s
bookshop, Sydney, Miss Mavis
Earl demonstrates that she has
a perfectly clear idea of what
she has painted. It repre-
sents :
Solidity of the past, friends and
experiences of a well-ordered time (a
solid cliff)! White birds of happi-
ness and peace, only remembered.
Divided by a cold clarity (fish and
the sea) which announces the present
(the foreground figures), over-
shadowed and insecure.
The painting, of course, still
has to mean something as art
as well as symbology; and this
one does —Miss Earl, a young
painter holding her first exhibi-
tion, has a pleasing sense of
color and design. Her slender
talent shows best in the water-
colors ; most of the oils are
muddy.
* *l* ♦!«
Art Prizes
Morgan’s bookshop, where
Miss Earl’s exhibition is hang-
ing in a pleasant, small, upstairs
gallery, intends to continue
holding art - exhibitions from
time to time. It also intends to
give an annual prize of
50-guineas for a painting,
alternating the awards between
conventional and “contempor-
ary” styles. The first award will
be made about October this
year: details will be announced
shortly.
Rockdale (N.S.W.) Municipal
Council is again to give an art-
prize this year, to be judged by
Erik Langker. There will be
120-guineas for the winning oil
and 60-guineas for the win r. mg
watercolor. Closing date, July
14 ; open to all artists through-
out the Commonwealth; further
details from the chief clerk,
Town Hall, Rockdale.
Talkies
“Marty” (Sydney Esquire): A
sympathetic study of ordinary
people, naturally acted, and
directed with imagination and
integrity. It is the simple story
of a 34-year-old butcher who
lives a drab, though not poor,
life in New York’s suburbia.
Paunchy and rather rugged of
face, he has given up the quest
for a wife as hopeless; he
spends his Saturday nights either
looking at TV-shows or having a
few beers with other bachelors
as bored and lonely as himself.
His Italian mother browbeats
him into going to a dance, where
he meets a 29-year-old school-
marm who has also almost given
up matrimonial hope. Their
shy and halting romance is
delightfully developed with
deftly-etched domestic touches.
Ernest Borgnine and Betsy Blair
handle the chief roles.
“The Benny Goodman Story”
(Sydney State): An odd charac-
teristic of most filmed bio-
graphies of Tin Pan Alley per-
sonalities is the singularly un-
exciting lives they led. In this
one the music kicks-off with a
spot of Mozart, then moves
smartly on to that of Mo Finkel-
baum and co. Trumpeter Harry
James does his best to blow his
front-teeth out, a: id Gene Krupa
tries hard to atomise an area of
pigskin. It’s thermal music,
quite a lot of it distinctly listen-
able. But the story is feeble.


The Tough Guy
By PETER
WARD
HENRY was making a
fresh urn of coffee when
they came in. He had
heard their loud-mouthed
talk coming nearer from outside
on the street, then they came
through the doorway and
slouched down the aisle between
the booths and sprawled in the
end one. Henry looked side-
ways at them. Smart alecks.
Three young smart alecks.
They all wore gaberdine over-
coats, unbuttoned and turned up
at the neck. Their hair was
cropped and thickly oiled. The
blond one sitting facing the front
of the shop wore a yellow sports-
shirt buttoned at the throat. The
two opposite him had dark hair.
The blond one was chewing
gum. He put his fingers into his
mouth and pulled the gum out
in a long strand and held it
above his head and chewed it
into his mouth again.
The dark-haired one on the
aisle turned around and called
out, “Hey, Pop! How about
some service?”
Henry was filling a saucepan
with water from the sink. “In
a minute,” he said.
The one oil the aisle turned
back to the blond. “The man
said in a minute. How long’ve
we been here now? ”
“Couple of minutes.”
“That’s what I thought. Pop
needs a clock or something.
Maybe the joint can’t afford a
clock.”
Gus, the dark-haired one near
the wall, said, “We’ve got plenty
of time.”
“I don’t like waiting around,
that’s all. I’d rather be doing
something.”
“There’s nothing to do.”
“It’s a hell of a night,” agreed
the one on the aisle. “It’ll rain
again soon.”
He turned around again. “Hey,
Pop! What’s the hold-up?”
Henry put the top back on the
urn. “Be right there.”
Henry did not want them in
the place, anyway. They would
buy a cup of coffee and think
that that entitled them to order
hjbi around.
The blond one was lounging
back against the wall. He said
to the one who had called out,
“Shuddup, Mai.”
Mai bristled. “Aw, what’s up
with you? You want to get
served, don’t you? You want
some coffee, don’t you?”
“Shuddup.”
Gus nudged Mai with his
elbow. “There’s only one thing
Frank wants and there’s none of
it here.”
Except for the three, the place
was empty of customers.
Frank, the blond one, stared
at the doorway. “I should have
rang Connie up at work today.
She would’ve come out tonight.”
Gus said impatiently, “What
do you want to fool around with
her for? She gives me a pain.”
“Who’s asking you, Gus?”
“I’m just saying.”
“Well, don’t.”
“O.K. O.K. Keep your shirt
on.” Gus’s voice had become
high-pitched. “She’s not worth
arguing about.”
Frank looked at him threaten-
ingly. “What’s the dirty look
for ... ? Forget it, will you?”
A/i'RS. SIMMONS came from
behind a curtain at the back
of the shop with an enamel tray
of minced meat for hamburgers.
She put the tray in the refrig-
erator and Henry said to her,
“See what they want.”
Mrs. Simmons was about the
same age as her husband Henry,
in the middle-fifties, but plump,
and she did not wear glasses.
She walked down to the end
booth and smiled at the three
customers. “What would you
boys like?”
Mai said, “Well, well, well.
So we get served!”
Frank said shortly, “Coffee.”
“Coffee for three?”
“I’m doing the ordering,
aren’t I? I meant coffee for
three.”
He knew from the shocked
expression on the woman’s face
that she did not regard him as
a “boy” any longer.
Mrs. Simmons said quietly, “I
beg your pardon . . . What else
would you like?”
“Toasted sandwiches for
three ; and three coffees.”
“Wait a minute,” Mai said to
her. “I didn’t say I’d have a
toasted sandwich. I want a ham-
burger.”
“Hamburgers are crumby,”
Frank told him decisively. “Have
a toasted sandwich.” He gave
the order to Mrs. Simmons,
“Coffee and toasted sandwiches
for three.”
Mrs. Simmons started to walk
away but Mai stepped into the
aisle and called out, “Hold on!
I said I didn’t want a toasted
sandwich. I want a hamburger.
Make mine a hamburger.”
She said, “You can have what
you like, only make up your
mind.” '
“I know what I want. I want
a hamburger.”
“All right.”
Mai sat in the booth again
and said to Frank, “I told you I
wanted a hamburger.”
Frank leaned across the table,
his shoulders hunched-up. “I
was doing the ordering. When
you go into one of these places
only one does the ordering.”
“I can do my own ordering.
I’ve got a mouth.”
“You’re ignorant.”
Gus said, “He wouldn’t know
what that meant.”
“I still know what I want. I
don’t need you to tell me what
I want.” *
Frank lounged back against
the wall. “You talk too much,
Mai. Shuddup.”
Mai flicked his hand at him.
“Aw. . .”
Henry said softly to his wife.
“Hurry up with that stuff. The
coffee’s just about ready. The
sooner they go the better.”
“Did you hear what that blond
one said to me? The rude young
whelp! ”
Henry did not answer her.
US said, “We could have gone
down to the gym. tonight.”
“What do we want to go to
the gym. for?” Frank asked
him. %
“Archie Bishop’s sparring
tonight.”
“Archie Bishop. So what?”
“He’s good. He’s good now.
Fast. He’s built himself up a
lot too.”
Frank said, “I could belt the
ears off him twelve months ago.”
“That was twelve months ago.
You should see him now. I
watched him last week. He’s
really something now. He’s got
a beautiful left.”
Mai said, “You probably
couldn’t get near him now. You
haven’t trained for a year.
You’re all out of condition.”
“Don’t depend on it,” Frank
told him. He took a cigarette-
pack from his inside pocket and
shook a cigarette on to the table
and said, “Give me a light.”
Gus lit the cigarette with a
lighter. Mai reached across for
the pack, which Frank had left
on the table, and shook it. It
was empty. He swore and rolled
it between his hands.
“Got any more?” he asked
Frank.
“That was the last one.”
Gus put a tobacco-tin in front
of Mai. “There’s the makings.”
“Don’t feel like that weed. I
want a tailor-made.”
Mai stood up and walked
towards the front of the shop
where Henry and Mrs. Simmons
were working. The shelves
between the refrigerator and the
electric-stove in the window were
stocked with bottles of soft
drinks. Next to the cash-register,
on the counter which enclosed
the working area, was a triple
tray of chewing-gum. Mai
could not see any cigarettes.
“Do you sell cigarettes?”
Henry was toasting the bread.
He turned his head to see who
it was, then spoke to the toaster.
“No. We don’t sell cigarettes.”
Mrs. Simmons explained,
“They’re too much trouble. We
don’t handle them. There’s a
milk-bar a few doors down. They
sell them.”
“Q.K. Thanks.”
Mai went outside. It was rain-
ing again.
He was gone about ten
minutes. In the meantime, the
coffee and sandwiches had been
served. When he came back t«
the booth, his face was slightly
flushed and his eyes sparkled.
Mai said, “Have you blokes
been in that milk-bar down
there?”
They said no, they hadn’t.
“You should see the Greek
dame down there! Jeeze!” He
whistled between his*teeth. “She’s
got colossal long black hair —
and that ain’t all she’s got. You
should see her! You know how
some of these Greek dames
are?”
Gus asked him, “How old is
she?”
“She looks about eighteen.”
Frank said, “Then she's prob-
ably sixteen. Those Greeks and
Italians develop early.”
“She’s developed, all right,”
Mai agreed. “I bought a milk-
shake and got talking to her. ’
Frank drank some coffee.
“What did you talk about?”
“Aw . . . This and that. You
know.”
Mai had remarked that it was
a crook night and the girl had
agreed that it was ; then she had
walked to the back of the shop
to wash glasses in the sink. He
had spent the rest of the time
looking at her reflection in the
mirror which ran the length of


LET
TLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1608 in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD,
(. England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney*
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUIUVAN
PTEUU
TRADE
MAR*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers.
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
the shop. She had not
acknowledged his “Good-night”
when he left.
Mai said to Frank, “You need
some cigarettes. How about if
we go down there after we leave
here?”
“Okay. I’ll have a look at her.
You can’t do any good with
those Greeks, though. Their
fathers won’t let them out of
their sight.”
“How do you know that?”
“I know. You never see a
Greek girl out with an Aus-
tralian, do you?”
“I don’t know. I haven’t
noticed. You can’t always tell a
Greek girl, anyway.”
A GIRL with short curly hair
came in out of the rain and
placed her umbrella at the back
of the first booth, which was
side-on to the counter. She was
in her late teens, and very pretty.
She unbuttoned her pink plastic
raincoat and said, “Hallo, Mr.
Simmons. Hallo, Mrs. Simmons.
How are you tonight?”
Henry said, “Good-night,
Sylvie. Working back?” and
Mrs. Simmons smiled at her and
said, “Hallo, dear. It’s a dread-
ful night to be out.”
Sylvie hung her raincoat on a
peg near the door. “I know,”
she said. “I’m going home as
soon as I have a cup of tea. I’ve
been working again.”
Henry said, “You work too
much. Sandwiches?”
“Yes, please.”
She sat in the first booth,
side-on to the counter, and talked
to Mr. and Mrs. Simmons while
they made up her order.
When she came in the three
had stopped talking and Mai and
Gus had turned around in their
seat so that they could look over
the top of the booth at her.
Frank moved along the seat near
the aisle so that he was sitting
facing the girl. He could look
at her naturally without appear-
ing to be doing so.
The girl was sitting with her
legs crossed. She wore high-
heel shoes. Her legs looked nice
with high-heel shoes. She grew
conscious of their stares and
glanced down quickly once, then
looked away and asked Henry
if he had been busy. Henry told
her that he had not. If was the
weather.
Mai turned around and
smirked at Frank. “Not bad,
eh?”
“Very nice.”
Gus asked Mai, “How about
the Greek dame?”
“Aw, the Greek dame. .
Frank said to them, “What
did she say when she came in?
—that she’d been working
back?”
Mai said, “I wasn’t listening.
I "Was looking.” Gus didn’t
know, either.
Frank continued, “I’m sure she
said she’d been working. Now,
if she works around here, she
must live around here”
“Yes. Yes. Yes,” Mai
prompted him.
“Well” Frank smiled. “I
could offer to walk her home.”
Gus said, “And she would let
you.”
“Why not? Aren’t I respect-
able-looking? If she doesn’t want
to walk I could get a cab.”
Mai was a bit hostile towards
Frank. “What about us?”
“You! . . . What good could
you do? She wouldn’t look at
you if you was done up in cello-
phane.”
Mai was silent. He knew that
Frank was right. When it came
to pick-ups he just folded-up by
himself. He needed support. Not
like Frank. Frank could talk to
strange girls easily enough and
they did not seem to mind. He
and Gus would have to leave this
to Frank.
Frank said, “I think I’ll have
another cup of coffee. You
blokes stay here.”
“Aren’t we in on this?” Mai
asked him.
“Can’t rush it. Just wait
there.”
TCRANK took his cup and
saucer to the counter and
said to Mrs. Simmons, “Another
cup, thank you.”
She filled it tot him and asked,
“How about the other boys? Do
they want any more?”
“No, they’re right. We’re
going now.” He stood at the
counter. “I think I’ll drink this
here.” He made a pretence of
looking around for sugar, then
took his cup and saucer over to
the girl’s booth.
“Do you mind if I have some
sugar?” he asked her.
Sylvia pushed the sugar-bowl
over to him.
“Thank you.” He sugared the
coffee and stirred it slowly.
“Terrible night, isn’t it?” He
tried to modulate his voice so
that it was soft and deep and
pleasant.
“Yes,” the girl replied. She
took a bite of a sandwich and
chewed it slowly, looking away
from him.
Frank could feel that she was
uncomfortable and he had not
wanted that to happen. He stood
in the aisle, sipping his coffee and
considered whether or not he
should sit in the booth with her.
He knew that Mai and Gus were
watching him.
He said to her, “They make
good coffee here, don’t they?”
The girl ignored him, and that
made him slightly angry.
“I said they make good coffee
here.” She did not say anything.
“Hey! ... Didn’t you hear me?”
She spoke without looking up.
“I drink tea.”
“You should try the coffee . . .
You work around here some-
where, do you?”
Sylvia tried to appear uncon-
cerned at the intrusion, but she
was having difficulty swallowing.
Frank sat in the seat opposite
her and smiled. “What’s up?
Can’t you talk?”
Sylvia was flushed with anger
now. She looked at him steadily
and said deliberately, “Would
you go away, please? I’m trying
to eat.”
“You can eat. I’m not stop-
ping you. I’m just trying to be
friendly, that’s all. I thought
maybe you’d like me to take
you home.”
“Will you go away?”
Mrs. Simmons pushed back
the dividing section between the
counter and stood in the aisle
next to the booth. She stood
with one hand on her hip and
the other on the table.
“Why don’t you go away and
leave the girl alone, you cheeky
young whelp?” she snapped.
“Go on . • • Get out of there
and get back to your own table.”
Frank stood up. “Who do you
think you’re talking to?” The
carefully modulated voice was
gone now.
Henry came out from behind
the counter. “She’s talking to
you. If you’re going to cause any
trouble, you’d better get out.”
“I’ll go when I’m ready.”
.The girl collected her coat and
umbrella and said “Good-night”
as she ran out on to the street.
HENRY said hotly, “I don’t
want alecks like you coming
in here causing trouble, frighten-
ing people away. I don’t want
you in here again. Understand?”
“I wouldn’t come into the
crumby joint, anyway.”
“You better go.”
“I’ll go when I’m ready.” He
sauntered back to Mai and Gus.
They waited for Frank to
speak first. He said, “Give me
a smoke.”
Mai gave him a cigarette and
Gus lit it.
Frank gritted, “Did you hear
what the old girl called me?”
Gus nodded. “We heard.”
“I’d like to take them apart.”
“Forget about it,” Gus told
him.
“I won’t forget about it. Don’t
worry about that.”
Mai was feeling scared.
“You’ll only get into trouble.”
“Tin at wouldn’t worry me . . .
Did you hear what she said?
And the old bloke ordering me
around! I feel like staying here
all night, now. I’d like him to
order me out again.”
Mai stood up. “Come on.
Let’s go.”
“Sit down. We’re not going
yet. We’ll stay a while.”
Mrs. Simmons came down the
aisle with a tray, collecting the
sugar-bowls. She collected them
all, except the one on their table,
and took them back to the
counter. She went behind the
counter and commenced to fill
them with a scoop from a sugar-
bag.
She said to Henry, “This bag’s
just about finished, Henry. Will
you bring up another bag?”
“There’s one already opened,”
he said, and walked to the back
of the shop behind the curtain.
Frank was waiting for him
when he came out, laboring
under the strain of an almost-full
bag of sugar.
As Henry staggered past the
booth, Frank put his foot out
and tripped him. Henry fell
forward over the bag, and the
sugar spilled halfway up the
aisle.
Mrs. Simmons screamed and
rushed down to him and helped
him to his feet. His face was
red and he was trembling un-
controllably.
“You did that on purpose!”
he shouted at Frank. “You
tripped me on purpose! ”
Frank still sat in the booth.
“Aw, shuddup.”
“Don’t you tell me to shut up.
Don’t you! ”
“You fell.”
“I did not fall. You tripped
me. If I was a bit younger I’d
knock you down! ”
Frank stood in the aisle. “Hit
me. Go on. Hit me. Have
a go.”
Mrs. Simmons ran out of the
shop.
Henry’s voice quavered. “I’d
hit you, all right. I’d hit you,
you cheeky young lout.”
“All right, hit me.”
Mai took Frank by the arm.
“Come on. I’m going.”
Frank shook him loose. He
said to Henry, -“You said you
were going to hit me.”
Gus walked towards the
doorway, his shoes crunching the
sugar, and called back, “Don’t
be a fool, Frank. We’re going.”
Frank said to Henry, “Just
don’t try to order me around
again, see?”
“Get out! Go on, get out!”
Mai was waiting halfway,
between Frank and Gus. He was
really scared, but he did not
want Frank to know it.
Frank said. “Out of the way,
Pop,” and pushed past Henry.
They stood outside the shop
and looked down the street. The
Greek girl was standing outside
of the milk-bar on the footpath
looking up at them. They could
see her clearly in her white
overall.
Frank said, “This way,” and
they walked in the opposite
direction, Frank in the middle
and Mai and Gus on either side.
GUS said, “Did you see the
old girl rush out?”
“I saw her,” Mai said.
“Where do you think she
went?”
Frank snapped, “Who cares?”
They walked two blocks to the
intersection and stopped near a
tram waiting-shed.
Gus asked, “Will we wait for a
tram?”
Mai said, “I’d rather keep
walking.”
“We’ll wait here,” Frank said.
“We might get a cab. We can
get the tram if it comes.” It was
drizzling rain. “Let’s move into
the shed.”
It was dark in the shed. They
stood near the gutter, looking
down the road ; then they heard
a rustle in the far comer and
saw a piece of pink raincoat
showing from the edge of shadow
cast by the blue lamp high above
the roadway, shining down on to
the waiting-shed roof.
They peered into the gloom
and knew who it was by the pink
raincoat.
Mai was getting excited again.
“It’s the dame who was in the
joint,” he whispered.
Frank punched him in the
kidney lightly. “Not so loud.
I’ll see if she’ll talk to me now.”
Gus walked to the edge of the
shed, looking down the deserted
road. He did not want any
trouble. Frank could get him
into a lot of trouble. He couldn’t
leave him, though.
Frank stood near the girl and
said, “You left in a hurry. Did
you get upset, or something?”
THE girl stood up and walked
towards the front of the
shed.
Frank walked with her. He
said, “You should’ve finished
your tea. My name’s George,
and that’s Bill and that’s Johnny.
Now, what’s yours?”
Sylvia was clutching her
umbrella tightly. She could not
see anyone along the street.
There was a high factory-wall at
the back of the shed which ran
half the block and joined another
factory-wall. There were no
shops or houses. Only closed
factories.
Perhaps a tram would come in
a minute. Nothing could happen
in a minute.
Frank said, “I was going to
take you home. Where do you
live?”
Sylvia turned her back to him.
“What’s up? Don’t you want
to talk? Are you too stuck-up
to talk? You don’t think I’m
good enough for you, eh?”
Gus said, “Leave her alone.”
Frank turned on him. “You
shuddup! I’m not talking to
you, see? Just mind your own
business. I’ll do the talking.”
“She won’t be in it.”
“I told you what to do . .
He turned back to the girl. “You
tell me where you live and I’ll
take you home in a taxi.”
The girl made a move to step
on to the roadway, but Frank
put his arm in front of her. His
hand touched her waist. She
felt hot under the coat.
She sprang back from him and
choked, “Keep away from me.”
She appeared to be crying.
“I didn’t come near you. You
came near me.”
He took a few steps towards
her.
“Don’t come near me. Please!
I’ll scream. . . I’ll scream!”
“What do you want to scream
for? I’m not going to hurt you.
What’s your name? I didn’t
catch it back there.”
Gus said, “Lay off, Frank.
Don’t be a fool.”
Mai said nervously, “You
don’t want her to scream, Frank.
We better go. We could get into
trouble.”
Frank said savagely, “0.K.,
you blokes go. Go on. It’d be
better if you did.”
The girl appealed to Gus,
“Help me. Please help me. Don’t
go away.”
Gus had not thought that it
would turn out like this. He
walked towards Frank and the
girl. “Leave her alone, Frank.”
“If you come any nearer, I’ll
drop you, Gus.”
“Just leave her alone.”
Mai said from the roadway,
“I’m going.”
Frank said to them, “The both
of you go.”
The girl was crying, “No . . .
no, please!”
Mai was illuminated by the
headlights of a car. It screeched
to a stop beside him and a man
shouted from the already opened
door, “You boys stay where you
are! ”
A POLICEMAN shone his
torch around the shed as he
got out of the car. He took
hold of Mai by the arm and the
girl screamed and rushed
towards him.
Gus was paralysed. He
watched while another police-
man got out of the car from the
driver’s side and walked towards
the shed.
There was a scrape of leather
on the asphalt and Frank was
running out of the shed, down
the street alongside the high
factory-wall. A voice called out,
“Stop! Come back here!”
He kept running. He reached
a corner and turned into the side-
street. It was a long street and
his legs were heavy with fatigue
before he was halfway to the
other end. He could see the blur
of a light on the corner. When
he reached the light he would
turn back around the block
again. They wouldn’t think of
that.
He was running with his eyes
shut some of the time, and when
he opened them, the light did not
seem much closer. His breath
came in sobbing gasps and his
ears pounded. There was only
the sound of his running and his
ears pounding.
And then there was another
sound—the squeal of tyres and
the sound of a car-engine
accelerating, coming nearer, and
the screech of brakes and he was
bathed in light and a voice told
him, “Stay where you are.”
There was a brick wall behind
him, very high, and he could not
run any more, anyway, so he
stayed where he was.
A dark shape loomed over him
and said something and hit him
over the head. He had never
been hit so hard. His head
snapped sideways and his ears
sang like an electric-buzzer. He
felt sick all over his body.
Frank clung to the dark shape
which was so big it seemed to
tower over him. “Don’t hit me!
Don’t hit me again, mister. . .! ”
He was crying now.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 813 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
r
d
mm
J
fily advice you
/
Excuse me for just a moment. There are one or two important
things I’d like to say and I’m, sure you’ll be interested.
I want to introduce Crusader’s new 1955-56 range of modern
suitings. I’ve seen some pretty attractive cloths in my time.
But, for quality, weave, distinctive patterns and pleasing
shades, these top them all.
For 47 years, the Crusader Mills have been producing cloth that
compares more than favourably with the world’s best. This
year, however, they have excelled themselves.
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, they have created a wide,
rich range of suitings, every one of
which is guaranteed pure wool,
guaranteed to give years of hard
wear, and guaranteed never to fade
or shrink. In other words, guar-
anteed quality.
So, if you want the smartest suit
in town, take my advice . . . ask
your tailor to show you the new
Crusader Pattern Book.
Special
Seiecftbnrv
double warp
doubSwefi
Cvusailct
6r us afar doth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 5.115
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy booklet, Theatre Royal, by
C. H. Bertie. —6274.
Information Sought t
Some novels and other works
dealing with the life of Cagliostro?
“Count Alessandro Cagliostro”
(1743-95), whose real name was
Giuseppe Balsamo, murderer, forger,
alchemist and arch-impostor, is the
subject of several novels. Memoirs
of a Physician, by Dumas, is founded
on his adventures; there are also
The Fateful Diamonds, by J. Rhys
(1934), Cagliostro: the Splendor and
Misery of a Master of Magic, by
W. R. H. Trowbridge (1910), arid
Cagliostro, by Johannes von Guenther
(1928), translated from the German.
One of the best accounts of'his life,
adventures and character is in
Carlyle’s essay “Cagliostro” in his
Miscellanies. The Memoires pour
servir a Vhistoire du comte de
Cagliostro (1786) are not now
regarded as genuine.
* * * *
Names of winners of the Australian
men's-doubles tennis-title since World
War I?
1919-20, P. O’Hara Wood and
R. V. Thomas; 1921, R. H. Gemmell
and S. H. Eaton; 1922, G. L. Patter-
son and J. B. Hawkes; 1923, O’Hara
Wood and C. B. St. John; 1924,
N. E. Brookes and j. O. Anderson;
1925, Patterson and O’Hara Wood;
1926-27, Patterson and Hawkes;
1928, J. Borotra and J. Brugnon;
1929-30, J. H. Crawford and H. C.
Hopman; 1931, C. Donohoe and R.
Dunlop; 1932, Crawford and E. F.
Moon; 1933, H. E. Vines and K.
Gledhill; 1934, F. J. Perry and G. P.
Hughes; 1935, Crawford and V. B.
McGrath; 1936-37, A. K. Quist and
D. P. Turnbull; 1938-39-40, Quist
and J. E. Bromwich; 1941-45, no
competition; 1946-47-48-49-50, Quist
and Bromwich; 1951-52, F. Sedgman
and K. McGregor; 1953, K. Rose-
wall and L. Hoad; 1954, M. Rose
and R. Hartwig; 1955, M."*A. Trabert
and V. Seixas; 1956, Rosewall and
Hoad.
* * * *
What was the affair of the Diamond
Necklace, associated with French
history ?
In 1775 the Court jewellers,
Boehmer and Bassenge, made a neck-
lace on order for Madame du Barry,
favorite of Louis XV; but before it
was completed the King had died,
and its price was far beyond the
reach of any other possible buyer.
Cardinal de Rohan (1734-1803), un-
popular at Court and wishing to be
taken into favor, was duped by an
adventuress calling herself the
Comtesse de Lamotte-Valois and who
pretended to be in the service of
Marie Antoinette, into believing the
Queen wanted the necklace; and he
bought it on credit. Rohan was
accorded an interview with the Queen,
as he thought (actually it was a
Demoiselle d’Oliva), who “pardoned”
him and promised to pay for the
necklace in instalments if he would
act as security. On obtaining the
necklace De Lamotte and her husband
left France, and sold the diamonds
overseas separately. When the first
instalment became overdue, the
jewellers sought an interview with the
Queen, and the plot was exposed.
Rohan and the girl Oliva were
arrested, but acquitted after a sensa-
tional trial. De Lamotte and her
husband were captured; she was
imprisoned and he sent to the
galleys. Marie Antoinette, though
innocent, suffered a lot of un-
popularity over the affair.
* * * *
(1) Is North Sydney a city? (2)
What are the requirements in N.S.W.
for a place to be called a city ?
(1) North Sydney is not a city, but
a municipality. (2) Under Section 11
of the Local Government Act, 1919,
the Governor may proclaim as a city
a municipality which (a) has during
the five years next preceding such
proclamation had an average popula-
tion of at least 15,000 persons; ( b )
has during the said period had an
average gross income from all sources
of at least £20,000; (c) is an indepen-
dent centre of population and is not
a suburb, whether residential, indus-
trial, commercial, or maritime, of any
other municipality or centre of
population.
* * * *
The cereals rye and wheat are said
to contain the same protein and
gluten. Is there any similarity
between the proteins of oats and
barley ?
Protein of the four cereals men-
tioned is of approximately the same
chemical composition, but differs
chiefly in respect of the physical
characteristics of the individual
proteins. The protein of the four
cereals consists essentially of an
albumin, a globulin, a prolamin and
a glutelin. The prolamin and the
glutelin of wheat-protein form the
water-insoluble substance commonly
known as gluten, and to this extent
wheat-protein differs from that of
the other cereals. The prolamin of
rye is similar to that of wheat, but
because the physical properties of the
glutelin are different it is not possible
to extract a substance similar to
gluten from rye-flour—the basic
reason for rye-bread’s being of a
heavier texture than bread made
from wheat-flour. Neither the
prolamin nor the glutelin of oats
and barley possesses the same physical
properties as those of wheat, so that
these two cereals are similar in that
respect, and differ from rye and
wheat.
Brief Answers
C.H.H.: “Tarama” is an aboriginal
word for laugh; “tarana” can mean
either a large waterhole or to fly (.as
a bird); “taranna,” a large species
of duck H.H.: Write the Consul-
General, 37 Wentworth - road,
Vaucluse, N.S.W G.G.: No
method that we can recommend.
Cheaper to have it done quickly and
cleanly by an expert L.C.P.: (1)
There is no exhibition in Sydney
similar to the one held in the
Treasury Gardens, Melbourne, by
Melbourne “Herald”; however,
inter-State entries are accepted for
(his exhibition. The main outdoor-
exhibition in Sydney is held by the
Strath Art Group, but this is only
open to members (returned-servicemen
and -servicewomen). We know of no
exhibition where all work submitted
is exhibited, but there has been a
display of work in the open at King’s
Cross in recent years. (2) Other
exhibtions held during the year:
Society of Artists’ annual exhibition
(information from 166 Phillip-street,
Sydney); Royal Art Society’s annual
exhibition (information, c/o Dudley
Menser Pty., Ltd., 175 Pitt-street,
Sydney); Archibald, Wynne and
Sulman competitions (information
from National Art Gallery).
Information on current competitions
available to artists is always on
display on the notice-board at the
Art Gallery A.D.B.R.: It is very
unlikely that comets arise from the
impact of large meteors on the moon.
There is no doubt that when a large
meteor does strike the moon some
of the material would be made hot
enough to be turned to gas, but this
gas would quickly spread-out and
would be unlikely to remain as an
entity in the form of a comet
F.J.C.B.: (1) Bernborough is by
Emborough (imp.) from Bern Maid,
by Bernard. (2) Yes. (3) His
progeny have won races in America,
and he is in the first 20 in the U.S.
sires’ list; he has had no important
winners so far. (4) A. Mulley rode
Bernborough in a long sequence of
wins-^15 —before the Caulfield Cup
of 1946, in which he carried 10.10
into fifth place. At his next start —
in the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes —
Bernborough, with W. Briscoe up in
place of Mulley, broke-down; he
didn’t race again, and a few months
later went to America. (5) The
stud-book must here be accepted as
the authority. (6) Such a claim was
made, but there appears to be no
proof. (7) Culverson does race in
W.A.; he is by Culverhill out of
Citesha, by Excitement (imp.) (8)
No. (9) Phar Lap, by Night Raid
from Entreaty, by Winkie, won 37
races, 36 of them in Australia. His
other win was in the Agua Caliente
Handicap in Mexico, on March 20,
1932. He died at Memlo Park
(California) on April 5, 1932, from
natural causes.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered'for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.F.: Not at that length. “The
Other Fellow’s Mind” might be
interested in the facts Peter
Gregory: Since you say it’s a true
story we must make room for
this much of your “Sorrowful
Recollection”:
C.D.: Will you please call and
remove those frogs H.T.: The
cannibal and the missionary are old
friends of more than 70 years’ stand-
ing J. 8.: “On! On! Along the
sunlit stream” they drifted out of
sight, never to be seen by us again,
we hope J.8.0’M.: “A Wet
Night” is too watery S.K.: If you
are progressing it is only at a snail’s
pace PJ.: It finished-up among
the stragglers K.J.R.: If that is
what living at King’s Cross does to
you, we suggest that you change your
address 1.V.: Maybe a lawn-
mower would help R.W.M.: You
will have to puff harder than that to
blow open the door to print
M.P.: Oh, well, you are forgiven this
time, but don’t let it happen again.
They had travelled up from Sydney,
One explained without ado,
To shoot some wallabies and foxes
And take a pot-shot at a ’roo;
“We’re sick of rusty tins and bottles,
Would like some live game for a
change,
And pitch our camp in the open bush .
At the foot of some wooded range.”
Now me, I’m a shooter through and
through.
And a bushman of no mean grade,
So 1 offered to lead the chaps to the game
And felt pleased at the plans I’d made;
I knew of a hut on my cousin’s run
That was equipped with a fireplace and
table,
Where the chaps could camp like the
bush-folk do
If the city chaps were able.
Then we made our plans for the shoot
nc-xt day,
Plans to shoot all the game on the
station;
We would meet just at dawn at the bend
in the creek
And begin a fine day’s recreation,
At the bend in the creek at dawn next
day
I watched for the chaps from the city,
But they must of all died or forgotten to
wake
And I thought of the shoot, what a
pity.
When the sun rose high in a cloudless sky
I heard the first sound of objection,
It was the sound of a gun, as for game
there was none
For it came from the hut’s northern
direction.
I was hurt to the core when it was fol-
lowed by more,
At the bottles and tins it was directed,
And I felt badly to know I was fooled
by their show
Of sincerity I had wrongly respected.
But fancy me thinking that the chaps
from the “Smoke”
Would rise before sun-up when the
bush-folk awoke,
Or take to the scrub like the true
shooters do
Through the timber and dog-bush and
waitawhile too.
To shoot bottles and tins was much
easier fun
For they’re lifeless and closer than
game on the run,
And what’s more there’s nc> walking—
and the ridges look rough;
As for getting through fences on the
chaps it was tough.
* -v
I thought bad of those chaps on that
much-wasted day,
Now I look back and laugh for the
time’s slipped away;
But in case they return some day with a
view
Of shooting a wallaby, a fox or a ’roo,
I’ve chosen a place where the going’s not
rough,
Just north-east of the river up over the
bluff,
Where the targets are plenty and the hills
are not steep—
Here I finish my story at the town’s
rubbish-heap.


Unknown Industry
Getting
the
Good Oil
By GRAHAM PHILLIPS
SOME time on a drive
through the bush you may
happen to spot a wisp of
smoke sneaking up through
the trees. Since there’s no
human supervision in sight, you
may feel that it’s wisping up
from an embryo bushfire. If
you stop and trundle over you
may find that it isn’t. Nonethe-
less, your wisp of smoke may
have been worth a look.
The smoke, in this case, will
rise from a small gully—which
is why you were unable to see
its parent fire. The gully will
not be dry, but will contain at
least a trickle of water, prob-
ably with dams about 3ft. deep
at intervals. Nor will the wisp
of smoke be unsupervised. The
gully has hidden the two men
who, day and night, take turns
to watch what’s making the
smoke.
The fire is a large one, almost
a log-furnace, and heats a square
tank about the size of one of
those Continental baby-cars. The
Cooling-system—a bit primitive, but it works.
tank isn’t handsome, and looks
worth about two-bob ; actually,
it quite recently cost £l2O.
Perched by the stream there’s
also a shack. Hessian curtains,
cardboard walls, blue-mottled
with rain.
The two insolvent-looking
gentlemen who live here
welcome you with a bottle of
beer. “You’d sooner have
Scotch?” Out comes a bottle.
Nor are they offering hospital-
ity they can’t afford. Between
them they knock out a steady
£lOO a week, and so long as the
wind doesn’t get too strong
they’ll knock it out all the year
round. You are, in fact, look-
ing at one of our notable
industries.
Australia’s eucalyptus-distil-
ling industry is so little known as
almost to seem furtive. It is, in
fact, perfectly honorable, and if
primitive, there are good reasons
for its remaining so. And,
primitive or no, it usually makes
a profit.
One reason the industry is so
unobtrusive is that the right
kind of trees grow in the wrong
sort of places—thick scrub,
stony hilltops. These valuable
trees didn’t select their barren
locales by choice ; it was only
there our first settlers omitted to
kill them off. The soil in these
out-of-the-way spots was too
poor for anything but gumtrees
to grow.
Besides this hole-and-corner
geography, there’s another
reason why the eucalyptus-
industry misses the industrial
limelight: no skyscraper silos
or vast factories mark its
presence. But you’d have a
whopping factory were it
possible to centralise under one
roof all the isolated stills tucked
away in the bush. They num-
ber about a thousand.
The money our friends in the
bush make is, of course, just a
start. By the time it circulates
to the ends of the earth the oil
makes a lot more money for a
lot of people, and thus helps our
general prosperity.
Australia is still the world’s
richest source of eucalyptus-oil.
However, we’re no longer the
only source; and of that sad
tale, more later.
As I need hardly bother to
say, Australia is well stocked
with eucalyptus-trees. My dic-
tionary claims that eucalyptus-
trees and gumtrees are the same
thing. However, they tell me at
A. J. Bedwell Pty., Ltd.—
biggest firm in the game—that
they reserve the word gumtree
for those kinds bearing little oil
to speak of.
No botanist myself, I’d
always thought the chief virtue
of our gumtrees lay in being so
much alike that you felt at home
wherever you went in Australia.
I knew that koalas insisted on
one species and flatly refused to
eat any other. But I put this
down to finickiness on the part
of koalas, rather than any great
difference among the gums.
However, I was wrong; the
trees do vary enormously, but
each kind of tree sticks to its
family-traits. Ignoring changes
of soil or season, the right kind
turns out oil with a standard
chemical make-up.
Though the quality doesn’t
vary, the quantity does. Hence,
the eucalyptus-trade scowls at
the juicy young growth of
spring. Perversely enough, this
is the least rich in oil.
It is worth noting that the
oiliest of the oil-bearing trees
are those types which put in a
late appearance on the evolu-
tionary timetable. Apparently
just to muddle the non-botanical
brain, these are called pepper-
mints. But they all look like
gumtrees to me.
That you pass a single day
without making use of eucalyp-
tus in some guise or other is un-
likely. The oil has a strangely
varied industrial repertoire.
(When I say oil I mean oils: as
with most things that grow on
trees, there are different kinds.)
In their efforts to sweeten the
human breath, toothpaste-
makers lean heavily on eucalyp-
tus ; the oils also find their way
to soap-factories in both hemis-
pheres. An Australian firm
holds a patent to crystallise one
type of oil into menthol; and
the same oil permeates dis-
infectants and detergents.
Another is popular as a lubri-
cant for the human bronchial-
Heating-up ... vapor, passing through pipe under water for 60ft., condenses to liquid.
tract; it often lurks in the more
fiery cough-mixtures and vapor-
rubs. And confectioners use it
to ginger-up their peppermints
and other such fiery confections.
More than to any other single
town in the world, the filling of
these assorted needs brings
wealth to Braidwood, in
southern New South Wales.
Round these parts grow several
kinds of eucalypt which might
almost be said to sprout pound-
notes.
On a bush-walk I’ve yet
myself to stumble by chance on
anyone distilling eucalyptus, or
anything else. But I did
recently take a trip to Braidwood
on purpose to look over this
highly profitable neck of the
woods.
I went down by railway, cer-
tainly in perfect safety, at about
15 miles an hour. Still, the
slowest train in the country
offered as compensation a
carriage lined with cedar, and a
chance to read the paper with
more poise than you can while
doing the 80-mile-an-hour jig
imposed by the diesel-express.
Coincidentally, the Sydney
paper had an item from Braid-
wood way. The previous week,
a gentleman had ignored all
warnings and set out from there
for Cooma across the lonely
spurs of the Southern Alps. He
was lost for a week. And a
heavy fall of midsummer snow
—vaguely attributed to Russian
activities with the atom —added
to fears for his life.
However, unlike that other
gentleman who “excelsiored”
his way to a conclusion in verse,
he turned-up in perfect health.
In such perfect health, in fact,
that, having cleared-up the
matter of which direction to go,
he continued his walk.
According to the press, he’d
kept his strength up on a light
diet of gumtips and melted
snow. Over a cup of railway
tea I brooded about this item,
and made a note to ask Braid-
wood’s opinion of the matter
when I got there. That he was
lucky to find midsummer snow
was clear ; but it struck me that
the solid portion of his diet was
too pungent a form of vege-
tarianism to be let pass without
inquiry.
These musings were termin-
ated by having to repress a
pungent exclamation on finding
that a cup of railway tea costs
a shilling presumably more
profitable than beer.
Despite byg on e political
pledges, no railway joins Braid-
wood to the world. To make
up, the road is almost apologeti-
cally good, and the bus whizzes
you along from Goulburn in a
bit over an hour.
In the pale afternoon-light we
pulled-up at the racecourse just
outside Goulburn and picked-
up a tall young sportsman:
“How’d you finish up,
Tom?”
“Oh ... I’d have done all
right only . . .”
As we bowled along I noted
what was for Australia a curious
absence of eucalyptus- or any
other trees. Sheep-country,
this. To Braidwood, eucalyptus-
oil merely adds wealth to an
already wealthy district.
The man who wants to raise
crops won’t find the soil as rich
as he’d like. But they’ve lately
been topdressing it by plane.
It responds well.
We crossed the Shoalhaven,
and just before we entered
Braidwood there was a road-
sign: To Bateman’s Bay . . .
Bateman’s Bay brought back
a memory of an enthusiastic
country schoolmistress to whom
I was once exposed. In her
efforts to instil a more refined
mangling of our mother-tongue
she taught such elocutionary
rhymes as:
“It’s a gee dee,” said the blue
jee;
“Ay’ll seel awee to Bectemen’s
Bee,
The weevelets plee, they darnce
and swee .... ”
The product of this instruc-
tion was a class of farmers’
kids —in those days mostly bare-
foot —who all spoke and swore
at each other in mincing May-
fair accents. I remember the
puzzled look on the inspector’s
face when he came round, as
some young hopeful read aloud.
“Yes, yes,” said the inspector.
“Not so much jam.”
Braidwood has not suffered
the face-lifting which has given
some country-towns a stereo-
typed look. Most of the shop-
verandas are still supported by
wooden posts, instead of float-
ing in the air like somebody
riding a bike no-hands.
The. bus pulled-up opposite
the Bank of New South Wales,
where I was to be a guest of Mr.
and Mrs. Harris, the manager
and his wife. I ambled across,
to be informed by Miss Harris,
a promising youngster, that
Mummy had just gone over to
meet me.
Things straightened themselves
out, and Mrs. Harris told me
she’d arranged for Mr. Tony
Taffa to pilot me around the
countryside next day. Since
Tony is a buyer for a eucalyptus-
firm, he’s a busy man, and it was
extremely kind of him to put
himself and his truck at my
service for a whole day.
In the morning we boarded
his ute and purred off into the
countryside, which, in the fresh
of the morning, looked a very
satisfactory shade of green. The
brown-snake of a road looped
across a series of low, round
hills ; like watermelons.
To the right, however, across
a valley gemmed with sunlight,
we could see another batch of
hills about which there was
nothing low or gentle—part of
the ranges leading to Kosciusko,
fierce and castellated.
Tony nodded towards them:
“Plenty of good oil-bearing
(Continued on page 34)
Condensed oil and water pours from outlet-pipe.


Whale Industries, Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS in Newcastle and
Hunter River Steamship Co. have
been offered two ss. shares in Whale In-
dustries, Ltd., for each £1 share in their
own co. Directors of the Newcastle co.
say they will accept the offer themselves,
and recommend other Newcastle share-
holders to do so.
Last sale of Newcastle Steam shares
before the offer became known was at
125.; they have since risen to 18s. Whale
Industries shares have been around 10s.
for some time, so, on market values, the
Whale offer is attractive.
The Whale offer is subject to review
by independent accountants and valua-
tors, but on last published figures there
was a net tangible backing of 295. Bd.
behind each £1 Newcastle share. Last
year, however, the co. made a loss, and
no div. has been paid since 1954. Div-
record over the last 10 years has been
very slim.
The Newcastle Steam fleet consists of
the Karuah (1353 tons) and the Mulu-
binda (1264 tons). They represent the
chief assets.
* * * *
By catching its 1955 quota in 66 days,
36 days faster than in the previous
season, when the whales were in their best
condition, and averaging about £stglo a
ton more for its oil, Whale Industries,
Ltd., in 1954-55 recorded its most suc-
cessful year since it began operations.
Sales were over £720,000 compared with
something more than £640,000 in 1954.
Formed in June, 1951, the company
offered 2,000,000 ss. ordinary shares for
public subscription, at par; and to the
shareholders of three proprietary cos.,
none of which had commenced opera-
tions, ordinary scrip worth £35,000 was
issued in exchange for their share-capital
of £3500. These companies, Whale Pro-
ducts., Pty., Ltd., Hi-Protein Pty., Ltd.,
and Farm Margarine Pty., Ltd., act as
the working subsidiaries for the parent
concern, operating at Tangalooma, on
Moreton Island, off Queensland, one of
the five whaling-stations on the Aus-
tralian coast.
On paid capital of £535,000 profits
have been 13 p.c., 19.8 p.c., 28.6 p.c.
and 35.2 p.c. up to 1955.
Last year’s figure of £188,434 (up
£35,629 on 1954) was struck after writing-
off £lO,OOO (down £5000) for deferred
maintenance, ship-repairs and con-
tingencies, £70,000 (up £20,000) for de-
preciation, and setting aside £81,653 for
taxation (up £42,053 on the previous
term’s adjusted provision of £39,600):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Y Dividends N serves. Deficit.*
31, £ £ £ £
Premium paid for subsidiaries’ shares 31,500
Preliminary and establishment exes.,
etc., £45,062 76,562
1952 .. 69,431 6 p.c. = 32,100 37,331 39,231
Reserves.*
1953 ..105,722 10 „ „ 53,500 52,222 12,991
1954 ..152,805 14 „ „ 74,900 77,905 90,896
1955 ..188,434 20 „ ~107,000 81,434 172,330
* After deducting intangibles, £31,500 at 31/10/’55.
Raised to 14 p.c. in 1954 (from 10 p.c.),
the dividend was further advanced to
20 p.c.* leaving £81,434 to be added to
reserved.
To speed-up the processing of whales
at Tangalooma, new plant was installed,
enabling about a 50 p.c.-greater daily
throughput. Expenditure on this and
other plant and amenities, including
duplication of electrical and steam-
generating equipment, amounted to a net
£55,863. The cost of major surveys
required to be made this year to two of
the company’s three catchers will be
covered by the deferred-maintenance
account.
The increased debtors at October 31
(up £88,344) is explained by later de-
liveries to overseas buyers and conse-
quently delayed payment:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £535,000 £535,000 £535,000
Surplus .. .. 64,945 122,396 203,830
Provision for * de-
ferred mainten-
ance, etc. .. 15,000 25,000
Creditors .. .. 23,873 12,458 9,242
Tax provision .. 89,650 107,500 130,000
Dividends .. 53,500 74,900 107,000
£766,968 £867,254 £1,010,072
Plant, buildings, etc. 405,137 381,055 )
Ships .. .. 119,152 112,124 ) 549.042
Stock .. .. 55,876 30,515 27,010
Debtors .. .. 54,564 48,100 136,444
Cash .. .. 80,285 263,960 266,076
Intangibles .. 51,954 31,500 31,500
£766.968 .£867,254 £1,010,072
Something that strikes the eye in that
table is the large cash holding.
On present indications, the chairman
reports, whale-oil prices over the current
term will be at least as good as in 1955.
A recent development of some promise*
perhaps, is the offer by American
interests to buy all the whale-meal pro-
duced in Australia.
At 10s. the scrip returns 10 p.c. on the
20 p.c. div. Net asset support is 6s. 7d.
Rootes (Australia), Ltd.
IMPORT-restrictions may have a greater
significance in the affairs of Rootes
(Australia), Ltd., than of other British
motor-companies whose manufacturing
programmes in Australia have reached a
more mature state of development.
The company, in which Rootes Motors,
Ltd., of England, owns 2,500,000 ordinary
10s. shares, took over the Australian
business of Rootes, Ltd., the export sub-
sidiary of the Rootes Group, at the be-
ginning of 1954, and under licensing
arrangements made with the English com-
panies Rootes (Australia) acquired sole
rights to the manufacture, assembly and
distribution of their products for an
initial period of 25 years. In return the
Australian company is to pay a royalty
of 2i p.c. of the factory-price of any
materials or components which are manu-
factured or bought by it in this country.
At present cars and trucks are
assembled at the co.’s plant at Fishermen’s
Bend (Vic.) from components supplied by
Rootes Motors, Ltd., and by local manu-
facturers, who account for some 34 p.c.
in value of total vehicle-content. The
imported fraction consists of such basic
items as panels and motors.
The company last year completed ex-
tensions to the Port Melbourne plant
costing £1,000,000, and an 83-acre site
has been acquired near Dandenong in
Victoria, where it is proposed to carry-
out manufacturing activities.
“Such a major development,” says the
managing-director, “must of necessity in-
volve very careful thought and planning
of a long-term nature. In consequence
no immediate developments should be
anticipated, but [the company is]
already studying both the economic and
technical problems involved.”
Commensurate with the payment of
reasonable dividends to shareholders, the
intention is to finance building and equip-
ping the plant as far as possible from
ploughed-back profits.
The rate of distribution has evidently
been settled-on at 10 p.c., which, gauged
by results of the first 19 months of
trading, should leave the business with
a substantial amount for ploughing-back
purposes:
y— Dividends To Re-
Jly., Profit. Pref. < Ord. ~ serves. Deficit.
31, £ £ p.c. £ £ £
6 p.c.
Loss sale fixed assets, £lO9 .. .. 109
Preliminary expenses w/off, £52,565.. 52,674
Reserves.
’C4..300,023* 14,546 5.7= 55,000 224,650 177,803
Loss sale fixed assets, £877 .. .. 176,926
’55..558,870 45,000 10 =165,000 348,870 625,796
* Seven months only.
Less the pref. div., profit last term was
equal to 31.1 p.c. on ordinary capital, as
against 28.4 p.c. (on the basis of a full
year) in 1954.
Some idea of the position occupied by
Rootes in the Australian market is given
in the following table of new-vehicle
registrations:
Cars— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Hillman 4,258 6,133 6,378
Humber .. .. .. 1,535 2,232 2,053
Sunbeam-Talbot.. .. 116 89 73
Total registrations .. 103,085 142,733 168,914
Commercial —
Commer 2,126 2,702 2,221
Hillman .. .. .. 12 60 994
Humber .. .. ~ 2 3 ■—
Karrier 51 86 115
Total registrations .. 55,518 65,292 70,432
During the 1955 term additions to the
co.’s buildings and plant at Fishermen’s
Bend and purchase of the freehold land at
Harrisfield involved a net outlay of
£745,535:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955.
Pref £750,000 £750,000
Ora 1,650,000 1,650,000
Reserves 171,976 525,796
Due to associate cos. .. 134,247 371,178
Creditors 231,955 203’,306
Tax provision .. .. 260,000 375,000
Final divs 69,546 187,500
£3,267,724 £4,062,780
Land, buildings .. .. 516,939 921,804
Riant, etc. .. .. 115,366 456,036
1,828,882 1,806,503
Debtors, etc 31,318 32,403
Cash 775,219 846,034
£3,267,724 £4,062,780
Following the latest import-restric-
tions, which reduced quotas of assembled
vehicles by 25 p.c. and of unassembled
vehicles by \2\ p.c., some contraction in
business over the coming months seems
inevitable.
Results so far have been highly satisfac-
tory, but from the viewpoint of share-
holders it is perhaps to be regretted that
the advantage which Rootes secured in
1946 in being the first British motor co.
to establish an assembly-plant in Aus-
tralia hasn’t resulted in a more advanced
stage of manufacturing in this country.
The 10s. ordinaries at 14s. yield 7.1 p.c.
Coote and Jorgensen
/CHAIRMAN B. O. Smith told share-
holders in Coote and Jorgensen, Ltd.,
Sydney automotive gearmaker and
engineer, that the co. needed a consider-
able amount of additional capital because
of the present financial position and the
co.’s plans for the future. Negotiations
with Borg-Warner Corp., U.S.A., for
Australian manufacturing rights were
continuing.
Profitable trading should be resumed
before the end of the year. (Accu-
mulated losses, etc., total £735,834).
Mr. Smith said that if fixed assets
had to be replaced, or were re-
valued, at present costs, the excess over
the book-value would probably offset
the establishment loss.
C.C. Engineering
CONSIDERING that competition is
stiff and skilled labor in short supply,
the increase in C.C. Engineering’s turn-
over, up 18jr p.c. on 1954, was quite a
satisfactory performance. Contributing
to the bigger sales were licensing arrange-
ments made recently with American com-
panies covering the manufacture of high-
pressure, low-volume agricultural spray-
ing-equipment and a couple of household-
gadgets, which are reported to be yield-
ing encouraging results.
Among other lines turned out by the
company from its recently-erected factory
at Granville are Trabon lubricating-
systems, tool- and cutter-grinders, printers’
benchsaws, hydraulic broaching-presses,
screw- and arbor-presses, drop-hammers,
ice-cream cone - making machines,
logging-saws, Shopsmith woodworking-
machines, Jamieson punches and Duncan
case-strapping machines.
Another factory at Glebe handles
general-engineering and the production of
machines to special design. The heat-
treatment and hardening sections of the
business are presently being transferred
to factory-buildings bought last year
from Mackenzie Bros. Pty., Ltd., and the
co. is negotiating with a British manu-
facturer of special-alloy steels for rights
to new heat-treating methods.
The company has also developed sugar-
cane harvesting and loading machines,
but before regular production is begun
the machines are being further experi-
mented with under field conditions.
After deducting depreciation’ £17,292
(up £2398), and taxation, £33,929 (up
£2302), net profit improved by £10,400
for the 1955 term:
C. C. Engineering Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.Cy Ordinary serves, serves.t
£ £ £ £ £
Net addition to reserves on consolida-
tion, £lB,lOO 134,726
Reserves capitalised, £32,331 . . .. 102,395
Tax for previous years paid, £21,531.. 80,864
Share premiums, £4250 . . . . 85,114
1951..43,344 1500 10 p.c. = 19,724 22,120 107,234
Added intangibles, £lO7O .. .. 106,164
Sundry addition to reserves, £47 .. 106,211
1952..44,461 1500 10 p.c. = 27,691 15,270 121,481
1953.. 64,927 1500 10 „ ~ 34,928 28,499 149,980
Less reserves 0. C. Die Castings, Ltd.,
£26,012 123,968
Profit shle shares C. O. Die Castings,
Ltd., £9822 133,790
1954..58,562 1500 10 p.c. = 38,381 18,681 152,471
Add subsidiary’s reserves, £20,938 .. 173,409
Loss sale assets, £3990 .. .. 169,419
Added intangibles, £17,470 .. .. 151,949
1955..68,962 1500 10 p.c. = 46,530 20,932 172,881
t After deducting intangibles, now £17,470.
On increased capital the higher earnings
gave about the same return as in the
previous year—l4.s p.c., as against 14.9
p.c. Before that the percentage of profit
to average ordinary capital was 18.2 p.c.,
15.5 p.c. and 21.2 p.c. back to 1951.
Except to the extent of dividends
received, the profits of C.C. Die Castings,
Ltd., have been excluded from the con-
solidated accounts over the last two years,
following the sale of a large number of
shares in the co. in 1954, which helps to
explain the lower return on capital.
While funds are profitably employed,
however, the ordinary dividend, at
10 p.c. since 1948, looks pretty secure,
although in the rapid growth of capital
the net asset support for each ordinary
share has become slimmer.
The new ord. capital offered to share-
holders earlier this term is to be intro-
duced in four equal quarterly instalments,
beginning wtih ss. on application last
September 30, an arrangement which
should reduce to a minimum the need
to pay dividends on idle capital.
Amalgamation of the accounts of T.
Green and Co. Pty., Ltd., engineers and
brass-founders, with the consolidated
figures, in 1954 shown as an in-
vestment item, resulted in a net addi-
tion of £3468 to reserves, the difference
between pre-acquisition profits and
reserves and the excess of cost over par-
value of the shares. A loss of £3990 was
made on the sale of property at St.
Leonards.
Reflecting the need for increased stocks
of raw-materials and finished-goods to
meet the continued change from a seller’s
to a buyer’s market, inventories were
£126,976 higher at balance-day. To
finance this and other additions to free-
holds (up £32,328), plant (up £40,627) and
debtors, etc. (up £52,631), an extra
£15,000 was borrowed from M.L.C.
Assurance Co., £88,173 from the bank
and £52,032 more owed creditors. Share-
capital and profits provided another
£127,397:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref .. .. £30,000 £30,000 £3o,n^'
Ord 377,605 413,499 603,016
Reserves . . . . 150,680 152,471 190,351
Outside interests.. 94,302
Secured loan . . 50,000 45,000 60,000
Overdraft . . .. 132,975 101,145 189,31 S
Creditors, etc. . . 167,422 99,800 151,882
£1,002,284 £841,915 £1,124,517
Freeholds.. .. 232,417 185,128 217,466
Plant .. . . 261,837 161,382 202,009
Investments .. 137,430 160,000
Stock . . .. 844,469 249,593 376,569
Debtors, cash .. 163,127 108,382 161,013
Intangibles .. 700 17,470
£1,002,284 £841,915 £1,124,517
On the basis of a 10 p.c. distribution
a return of just over 8.5 p.c. is available
from the fully-paid £1 ords. at the current
price of 235. 6d.
A. E. Goodwin, Ltd.
nrHE difficulties which this Sydney and
Port Kembla engineer and ship-
builder got into in 1947 have been put
well behind over the last few years.
Following the war, arrangements were
made to lease from the Commonwealth
Government factory-buildings at St.
Mary’s in N.SJW., to which it was
planned to transfer most of the plant
from the Lidcombe factory, and to buy
the plant and stock at the Port Kembla
shipyard, which the co. had operated
for the Commonwealth during the war.
To finance its plans the company went
on to a public basis in 1946, and issues
of 50,000 ordinary and 50,000 5 p.c.
preference £1 shares were made at par.
Difficulties first began to appear in
1947. The interruption to production
caused by the move and the problems of
establishing production at St. Marys,
aggravated by strikes and shortages of
materials, forced the company to lean
very heavily on bank-credit in order to
carry on, and in October the Common-
wealth Bank appointed as receiver
chartered-accountant B. O. Smith, who
remained in control of the co.’s affairs
until May, 1951.
During the last five years profits have
been equal to 49.1 p.c. in 1951, 18.4 p.c.
in 1952, 16.5 p.c. in 1953, 19.2 p.c. in
1954, and, last year, to 25.1 p.c. of
average ordinary capital employed. The
£144,064 earned in 1955 was written after
provision of £22,905 (up £1701) for depre-
ciation and amortisation, and £66,000 (up
£10,000) for taxation:
, Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord.—— \ serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
Intangibles written-off, £17,153 .. 49,234
Unexplained addition, £17,145 .. 66,379
1951.. 69,977 11,250 8 = 10,980 47,747 114,126
1952.. 88,591 2,500 8= 37,332 48,759 162,885
1953.. 95,277 2,500 8= 45,018 47,759 210,644
1954.. 768 2,500 10= 56,272 51,996 262,640
1955.. 144.064 2,500 10= 56,272 85,292 347,932
* Includes 3$ years’ pref. div. arrears to 30/6/’5O.
Reserves at June 30 amounted to
£347,932, and net asset cover for the two
classes -of capital, treating as fully paid
an issue of 301,950 ordinary shares made
in November, is £26 Is. 6d. for the prefs.
and 275. Bd. the ords.
Some valuable alliances have been
formed with American companies under
which A. E. Goodwin obtained rights to
manufacture their products in this
country. Among the latest of these were
the Adams motor-grader and the Good-
win-Alco diesel-electric locomotive, for
which an initial order of six was booked
with the South Australian Government.
Last term expenditure of a net £20,460
on freehold property and £72,088 on
plant, and a more-than-threefold increase
in the value of stocks and work in pro-
gress (up £595,294 to £874,861), was fin-
anced by cash (down £89,989), overdraft
(up £368,488) and trade credit (up
£90,210):
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1956.
Pref £50,600 £50,000 £50,000
Ord 562,825 562,725 601,100
Reserves .. .. 210,644 262,640 347,932
Overdraft .. 40,925 368,488
Creditors, etc. .. 191,336 158,872 249.082
Tax provision .. 110,867 119,108 132,713
Final divs. .. 47,518 36,263 29,386
£1,214,115 £1,189,608 £1,778,701
Freeholds .. 39,131 30,130 59,590
Leaseholds . . 32,440 23,411 25,322
Plant, etc. .. 215,519 223,877 295.965
Shares .. .. 500 500
Stock .. .. 443,713 279,567 874,861
Debtors .. .. 469,751 505,986 495,815
Cash, etc. .. 13,061 117,137 27,148
£1,214,115 £1,189,608 £1,778,701
During the year the surplus of current
assets over liabilities rose £29,708 to
£618,155. The new capital which was
due 10s. on November 30 last and 10s.
by May 31 should help during the present
period of restricted credit.
At 235. 3d. the return on the £1 ords.
is 8.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div., which the
directors say they intend to maintain.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .... 2/r
Yearly Subscription 22/6
INVEST
YOUR HONEY
INTHE
STATE
ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION
OF QI'EENSIAM^^
and obtain tbe benefit
ol the INCREASED
Interest tale of
PLUS ibe added
convenience of a
SHORT TERM INVESTMENT
I
I
YEARS
n usb mm
0
The Queensland State Electricity Commission Loan Is a
gilt-edged Security, completely safe, with repayment in full
at maturity guaranteed by the Queensland Government,
Interest is payable half-yearly, and your Loan securities can
be used to borrow money if required'or converted to cash if
necessary 1
APPLY NOW
through any Branch of the Commonwealth
Trading Bank, any Stockbroker, or
direct to the Queensland State
Electricity Commission in Brisbane!
The Loan is Undenwritten by
lan Pootep & Co.. Melbourne .
fife.
LOAN
CLOSES
THIS SAT.
10th March
On and off
By KEVIN McAULIFFE
THEY had been digging all
day. The trench lay like
a snake on its belly glid-
ing up the road. Mud
was piled on each side up the
hill where the pipes would go.
Red Brady wiped the sweat
from under his hat-brim and
put the battered felt back on his
head. Sweat lay heavy on his
chest and cruised down the deep
cleft in his brown back.
It was near knock-off time.
They were working on con-
tract. The real-estate firm was
opening-up the new land. It was
hoped that people would come
here when they had the water
and light.
They had named the area
Ferndale. It was to be an outer
suburb when the Tramways
got stuck into it and laid tram-
lines. As it was, it meant ten-
minutes’ walk to the terminus,
the new suburb, and half-an-hour
from there in to the city. “Not
such a great distance away,”
said Spud Jones, wiping his
hands on a sweat-rag. He was
wet from the tap and his arms
glistened.
“No distance at all,” said Red
politely. His mind was battling
with the problem of finance, a
home out here with Beth, among
the trees of Ferndale, the deep
seclusion newer suburbs can
give.
Spud grunted. A shock of
snowy hair fell over his fore-
head and he pushed it back to
let his grey eyes stare into twin
pools of blue.
“You got a place yet?”
“No,” said Red. He’d remem-
bered that Spud had been his
listener on a previous occasion.
“There you are,” said Spud
gently; and he waved his hand
in the direction of the water-
pipes lying ready for the morrow
by the newly-laid trench. “All
right?” He waited expec-
tantly.
“More than that,” said Red,
looking at him squarely. But
Spud smiled and said no more.
Red felt that Spud had been do-
ing a bit of thinking during the
afternoon. He had been, him-
self.
TT was the heat. And the sun.
And the space. And the
sweat. All the picks going up
and coming down. Picks bit-
ing into the thick, red clay and
shovels lifting it out. A gang
of men working for pay or a
group of pioneers opening-up
new land for settlement. People
would come here to live, build
houses and raise families.
There’d be love and hate, death
and life, a real life among real
people in a new country.
Men had made history by do-
ing a lot less than this gang had
done here today, and the same
firm would build the houses
later on as well as providing
the finance for people to buy
them with.
He thought of Beth as he
washed. They’d been married
three years now. Were expect-
ing a new baby. The little chap
would be waiting for him with
Beth in the tiny, two-roomed
flatette. Beth wasn’t worry-
ing much about that scratch on
the baby’s foot. He’d noticed it
when he was bathing him last
night. There didn’t seem to be
any sign of infection. But he’d
have another look at it tonight.
It wouldn’t be like Beth not to
worry if it were anything serious.
He wasn’t conscious of it, but
he made a fine study standing
there against the sun going down
behind the hill. He wore no
shirt, the brown shorts were
sweat-stained, bare feet in sand-
shoes. But it was his hair that
lit him up. A fiery mop of crisp,
curling waves.
Men were collecting the picks,
shovels and other gear to be
dumped in the tool-shed before
departure. The foreman was
walking the trench making sure
that everything had been put
away. He was a fat, good-
natured man, as most fat men
are.
Now they were crowding into
the other iron-roofed shelter
used as a dressing-room. Men
were getting out of their work-
togs and reaching out for clothes
left hanging during the day on
nails, driven hastily into the
temporary hut. Some never
bothered about dressing and
stayed as they were.
|3UT Red was the only one
who hadn’t bothered with a
shirt. All the others wore them
home, even if they didn’t work
in them. Red generally wore a
shirt home, too ; but today he
had omitted it. Beth was a bit
huffy with the new baby coming.
She wanted a place with a bath-
room to herself. She went over
to her mother’s place during the
day, but was getting tired of that.
It was only natural to complain.
Red got a lift up to town with
one of the trucks that happened
to be around; he didn’t seem to
need a shirt.
Nobody commented, on the
walk along the road to the tram-
terminus. All of them were in
high spirits. A few cool beers
in a favorite pub, a hot tea and
the paper, a restful evening,
bed. There were no complaints.
Nobody said anything in the
tram. They filled most of it
themselves. Cigarettes were
rolled. Smoke and friendly
chatter filled the cabin where
Red was sitting inconspicuously
in the back-seat near the window.
He was wishing he could afford
more than a cigarette now and
again, while congratulating him-
self that the habit was wearing
off. He’d be able to forget all
about it soon. The tram halted
for more passengers; all the
seats were filled and the new-
comers had to strap-hang. They,
too, were regulars ; same people,
same tram, same faces.
He got out in the. city.
Walked down the lane leading to
the station. Now his bare torso
was getting some attention.
Most of the men wore ties,
summer suits, panamas with
snap brims. He thought they’d
be clerks, office-workers, shop-
assistants. Some of them looked
prosperous. All of the women
were well-dressed. Many were
stockingless; legs wore an
attractive golden summer tan.
A few smiled. Others averted
their eyes. Most of them spared
a glance.
Taking the square to Central-
station was worse. And the
people in the train stared openly.
The carriage was overcrowded
as usual. He placed his back
against the door. A man in the
corner seat lowered a newspaper.
A youth said something to a
friend sitting next to him. A
blonde opposite was sitting with
her bare knees crossed. She
smiled. A girl sitting next to her
made a half-smothered excla-
mation. Another laughed, and
the sound was cut-off suddenly
and hung in the air. A thin-
faced man looked at him sternly.
An older woman frowned.
Heads turned around to stare.
What was the matter with
them? Why did they look at
him like that? Hadn’t they
ever seen a man without a shirt
before? But they still stared.
There were titters from a row of
girls in the next carriage. He
felt the blood mounting to his
cheeks.
“It’s all right,” he said from
his position at the door; “I’ve
got a shirt at home.”
They remained staring for a
moment. Then the eyes returned
determinedly to the newspapers,
the novels and the landscape.


THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
23rd March to 3rd April, 1966—10 days 8 nights.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE BARTON PATERSON
formerly of Wyalong N.S.W.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLEN OLGA PATERSON
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4150
of 1954 on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 30th day of April
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from D. M. COOK, Solici-
tor, 132 Sharp Street, Cooma, or his
agents, BERNE MURRAY & TOUT,
Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
iF THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.— In Divorce.
TO YALMA DAWN BUSSOLA address
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your hus-
band KENNETH JOHN BUSSOLA has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
If you desire to defend such proceedings
you must file your Statement of Defence
in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within 40 clear days from
the date of this publication In default of
your so doing the cause may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence
DATED this 22nd day of February 1956.
UNMACK & UNMACK, of 12 Howard
Street, Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
WESTERN AUSTRALIA— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL EMMERSON sometime of
R.A.A.F. Station Pearce Western Australia
address now unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife INA EMMERSON has
commenced proceedings against you in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
by you for a continuous period of three
years or more and seeks the exercise of
the Court’s discretion under Section 2i
of the Matrimonial Causes and Personal
Status Code 1948 If you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your de-
fence in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth Western Australia within
forty (40) clear days from the date of this
publication In default of your so doing
the cause may proceed and the court
will pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. ROBINSON
& RUSSELL WILLIAMS, of 49 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth, in the State ot
Western Australia, Soloeitors for the
Plaintiff. DATED this 27th day of
February, 1956. —Signed Registrar.
Missing Friend
EDWARD MILLS JONES, DECEASED
Would WALTER JONES and PAUL
JONES, sons of the abovenamed, or any-
one knowing their present whereabou .
please communicate with the Dlbiki
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Christchurch, JNew
Zealand.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlement* of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alired S. White; A. O. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
Branches in all States .
p. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Orb and Beau Chief,
winner and runner-up in Caul-
field’s Futurity Stakes, are not.
engaged in next Saturday’s New-
market Handicap, but the minor
placegetter, Kingster, is expected
to make a bold bid for the big
end of the £3OOO stake.
The Newmarket was first run
in Melbourne in 1874, when the
winner, Maid of Avenel, took
1.17 to cover the six furlongs.,
The record now stands at 1.1 Of,
shared by All Veil (1941) and St.
Ardent (1929). Australasian
record for six furlongs is the
I.Bf set by Aurie’s Star at
Flemington in 1940; he carried
10.2.
Despite his defeat into fourth
place in the Futurity, Copper
Year still is a good Newmarket
show, as is another from
Adelaide, Matrice. Copper Year
is selected to win, with Kingster
and Matrice next-best.
Racing at Flemington next
Saturday is expected to throw
further light on prospects for
the Australian Cup, run two
days later; but this longest
handicap-event of importance on
the Australian Turf calendar
(2 miles If furlong) has been
difficult for takers of the odds,
and next Monday’s contest might
also prove tricky.
New Zealander Cambridge
(third in the nine-furlongs St.
Clair Handicap at Caulfield last
Saturday) is selected to win the
Cup, from Wodalla and Glitzern.
Much more richly endowed
than the £4lOO Cup, the V.R.C.’s
£lO,lOO Queen Elizabeth Stakes
(If mile ; weight-for-age ; four
prizes) will also be decided next
Monday. Last autumn the w.f.a.
contest was run on the second
day and the Cup on the fourth
day—an interval of one week.
Staying-talent doesn’t look any-
thing like strong enough to
warrant the change, and most
likely the V.R.C. will revise its
1957 autumn programme.
Leading Melbourne jockey W.
Williamson’s mount in next
Saturday’s V.R.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes should have plenty of
support if his record in this sprint
is a guide to winning-prospects.
Williamson is expected to pilot
the consistent Centreway, who
should be one of the hardest to
beat in this two-year-old Flem-
ington classic. Centreway has
won at his only two starts.
Williamson’s first win in this
event (run over seven furlongs)
was on Delina in 1944. Since
then he has won it four times —
Iron Duke (1949); True Course
(1950); Usage (1951); Pure
Gold (1952).
Fred Hoysted, trainer of
Centreway, has won the Sires’
Produce four times Ungar,
True Course, Usage, and Pure
Fire. Centreway’s chief danger
should be Starover, easy winner
of the Merson Cooper Stakes at
Caulfield.
Caulfield racing was a pointer
to the Randwick prospects of
three-year-old Sailor’s Guide,
star Melbourne colt of that age.
Sydney jockey N. Sellwood made
a special trip to take the mount
on Sailor’s Guide in the Wood-
cliff Handicap (H mile), which
he won by a narrow margin,
from Glitzern and Pushover.
Sailor’s Guide might have had
an easier task had he not been
hampered at the half-mile, when
King’s Call fell. The perform-
ance was highly regarded by
close observers as a Sydney Cup
guide and the three-year-old was
made Cup favorite, while his
price for the V.R.C. St. Leger
(to be run next Saturday) is very
short. Before contesting the
Sydney Cup he is expected to
run in the Randwick St. Leger.
Melbourne’s smart three-year-
old filly Arbolado, easy winner
of Caulfield’s Stanley Plate, will
be set a tough task to win the
V.R.C. St. Leger, as few fillies
have proved equal to downing
the colts in the classic. Trainer
Des Judd also intends to send
her to Sydney for the Adrian
Knox Stakes at the A.J.C. meet-
ing which opens on March 31.
Her sire, Woodburn (imp.) won
up to 2\ miles in England, while
her * dam, Jenny Law, bred on
staying lines, was got by Law
Maker (imp.) from Jennifer by
Whittier from Frances Tressady
(V.R.C. Derby and Oaks) by
Tressady (imp.) As the family-
lines also include Blue Boots
(Brisbane Cup), Blue Slipper
(Q.T.C. Derby) and Blue Vest
(Queensland Cup), Arbolado is
sound enough from a staying
viewpoint.
Soon after weights for the
Doncaster appeared connections
of The Orb expressed dis-
appointment at his 9.2 (same as
King’s Fair, and 21b. more than
Connaught), and they intended
to give the Randwick mile a
miss. However, in view of The
Orb’s subsequent fine form—he
chased Rising Fast home in the
Orr Stakes at Moonee Valley
before his latest success—there
is likely to be a change of plans.
Trainer Basil Conaghan had
designs on the Q.T.C. Strad-
broke Handicap and the
Doomben Ten Thousand, but at
time of writing it seemed that
The Orb might come to Sydney
for the big Randwick mile. It
is 20 years since a Melbourne-
trained miler won this tough
contest, but not many have
competed.
Two of Saturday’s Randwick
winners seemed to have a bit
of luck on their side —Moulin
Rouge, in the Two-year-old for
fillies, and Bonny. Rob, in the
Edensor Park Handicap. French
Fable, runner-up to Moulin
Rouge, sat back in her stall
when the starting-gates were
released and was one of the last
to leave the machine. It was a
game effort that took her to
within a short-head of Moulin
Rouge, who was never worse
than second. Prince Jambo,
too, was left a number of
lengths, and he put in a remark-
able run. Fifth for home,
where Bonny Rob (the winner)
had a lead of five lengths over
her nearest opponent, he was
beaten less than a length.
An interesting two-year-old
runner at Randwick was The
Burn, one of T. J. Smith’s team,
and having his first start in
public. An outsider, he
finished on strongly for third-
money. The colt is by
Midstream (imp.) from Blue Sox
by Double Remove (imp.) and
is from a sister to Flying Shuttle,
a winner of the A.J.C. Adrian
Knox Stakes. He’s also related
to Windbag, Loquacious and
Feminist.
It is a bit of a step from
winning a moderate middle-
distance event at Randwick to
success in the Sydney Cup, but
the Grand Charles stable is
hopeful the four-year-old Way-
"What'll you bet ?”
side Inn (imp.) horse will be
equal to the occasion. Grand
Charles started equal-favorite
for the Warwick Handicap (11
mile) on Saturday, and finished
full of running. In fact, he was
going away from pacemaker
Landy, who, seen in a new role,
had a lead of half-a-dozen
lengths into the straight.
Beaupa, third, may soon re-
enter the winning-list. Grand
Charles won with 7.9, and drops
to 7.4 in the two-miler. Beaupa
carried 8.7, 21b. more than his
Cup impost, while Landy’s 7.10
was I.lb. above his impost in the
longer race. Maybe Landy
isn’t as good as he’s been rated.
Grand Charles is from Blue
Tulip by Rampion.
New Zealand - bred filly
Interest Rate had a fairly easy
win in a Hawkesbury Maiden
Two-year-old, and more wins
should soon follow. She is by
Gold Nib (imp.) from Rawal-
pindi by Broiefort (imp.). Rawal-
pindi is a half-sister to Green-
horn, winner of 13 races in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, includ-
ing the V.R.C.’s Bagot Handicap.
Warwick Farm trainer Norman
Turnbull won a Rosehill Maiden
Handicap some time ago with
Grey Lace, but he could do
better with her half-sister, Den-
telle. This three-year-old filly
opened her winning-account in
a Hawkesbury Maiden, and may
have got under the stable’s guard,
as she started at 66 to 1. How-
ever, her performance indicated
further success and she could
prove a stayer, being from a half-
sister to Euphrates, a winnner of
Q.T.C.’s Queen’s Cup in record
time. Dentelle is by Confessor
(imp.) from Chantilly by Picca-
dilly (imp.). >
Murren (imp.), a son of
Mieuxce (winner of the French
Derby), sired Chieti, easy
winner of a Newcastle Juvenile
Handicap on the same day that
another Murren product, The
Orb, had his much bigger win.
Chieti was the first foal of
imported Cider Cup, and
belongs to the family which pro-
duced Rose Verte, a winner of
the French Oaks, and Crudite,
a winner of the Grand Prix de
Paris.
+ +
“Jock”:' Three Sydney Lords
have all won inter-State honors
in sport. Ron, one of Australia’s
best post-war Soccer goalkeepers,
has “repped” against English,
South Africa, Chinese and
Austrian teams. Ken has repre-
sented N.S.W. at water-polo, and
hopes to compete at the Mel-
bourne Games. Bill is rated one
of the best hockey-players in the
State. All three are ex- members
of the Police and Citizens Boys’
Clubs.
K. * *
“C.A.A.”: A Victorian Cricket
Association decision is likely to
do away with “testimonials” in
Melbourne. Idea is to create a
provident-fund for players who
have represented the State in
first-class games. Some players
who have already retired from
the game will probably receive
payments. The fund is to be
financed from gate-receipts.
“N.A.8.”: Sydney H. Pardon
edited Wisden from 1891 to
1925. Although county-captains
and even the M.C.C. consulted
him on cricket lore or the finer
points of the game, Pardon, as
far as is known, never played
cricket. It was his quiet boast
that he wrote special articles for
the “Times” on four subjects —
cricket, horseracing, drama and
opera. He died on Nov. 20,
1925.
Indian all-rounder Vinoo
Mankad, following after Wilfred
Rhodes and Keith Miller?
becomes the third to have taken
100 wickets and scored 2000 runs
in Tests. In four Tests against
N.Z. this season Mankad made
526 (including a 223 and a 231)
and took 12 wickets; his tally is
2002 runs and 147 wickets. On
India’s tour of Australia in
1947-48 Mankad achieved some
notoriety for twice running-out
opener Billy Brown for backing-
up too far at the bowler’s end —
a legitimate means of dismissal.
* * *
“R.”: As other host-nations
have done, Australia will call on
her defence-forces to help with
the big Games. The R.A.N. will
provide three warships to act as
starting-vessels for the Olympic
yachting-regajtta: a destroyer, a
frigate and a corvette, they will
carry officials and press- and
radio-men covering the events.
Also, six Navy motor-boats will
be stationed at marks on the
course, and Navy bofors anti-
aircraft guns will be used to
start the races. Army men are
working with the technical staff
of the organising committee, and
200 of them have been co-opted
as officials in the rifle-shooting
events. The R.A.A.F. so far has
one duty, an all-important one
—flying the Olympic flame from
Darwin, after its arrival from
Greece, to Cairns, where the
record 2750 miles Torch-relay
to the Olympic Stadium will
begin.
* * *
“Tas.”: Have just learned the
origin of the standard 18-hole
golf-course. They were deliberat-
ing on this point at St. Andrew's
without being able to come to
any conclusion when a
foundation-member arose and
said: “Gentlemen, you know
it has always been my custom to
start a round with a full bottle
of'Scotch whisky in my bag. 1
also carry a glass, which I can
fill from this bottle eighteen
times. Naturally, I find the game
pleasing as long as there is still
a drink, of which I have one
before each tee. Once the bottle
is empty, my health might be in-
jured in this rigorous climate.
Since it is unlikely that the
manufacturers will increase the
size of the bottle, the course
should have eighteen holes.”
* *
Jack Dunleavy’s promising
young pupil Billy Todd (10.9)
gave a great display of scientific
boxing against Italian Franco
Vescovi (11.0£) at Leichhardt
Stadium. Bill did not look so hot
in round-two, when a round-
house right dropped him
compulsory “eight” and his
right eyebrow was gashed open,
but he rocked Franco with a
right in the fourth, and, mainly
per medium of stinging straight-
lefts, had Franco in such a state
over the concluding rounds that
the re‘f. cried “Gibraltar for
ever! ” or words to that effect.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
)
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f 0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2
Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Mainly fine, with occasional cyclones, thunderstorms, cloudbursts, waterspouts and floods
WEATTHER FORECASTS
By OLD BOOK
ON Monday evening,
February 6, 1956, having
noticed an easterly swell
during the day, and
having guessed from the
weather-reports of the past
week of heavy rains and flood-
ing along the Queensland coast
that a cyclone was approaching,
I informed my wife to that
effect.
The Sydney Weather Bureau
newspaper-report said nothing
about it.
The heavy atmosphere and
high humidity on the Tuesday,
combined with a light easterly
wind, confirmed my fears, and
from long experience indicated
to me that the cyclone was
approaching fairly rapidly and
appeared likely to come nearer
to Sydney than usual. I expected
on the Wednesday morning to
find a moderately strong east
wind and intermittent rain-
squalls, and when I rose at
5 a.m. that is exactly what was
in evidence.
As the cyclone drew nearer I
knew that the wind would
gradually veer S.E. and increase
in intensity, probably on Thurs-
day morning. It did. The
wind, still S.E., should then
increase to a full gale on Friday
morning, its strength depending
on the distance of the centre
from Sydney. It may be
recalled by Sydneysiders that
those were the conditions, with
heavy rain and flooding through-
out the night of Thursday, 9th,
and Friday, 10th, and during the
forenoon of Friday.
Until I opened my paper on
Friday morning I had not seen
or heard from the Sydney
Weather Bureau any mention- of
a cyclone at all, though that
bureau should have seen the
reports. ffom Queensland and
the indications, for nearly a
week, from the N.S.W. North
Coast.
On the Friday mo/ning,
enclosed in a “box” on the front-
page of the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” was the following
announcement:
WARNING OF CYCLONE
The Weather Bureau late last
night warned that a cyclone was
expected to form on the North Coast
early this morning.
A Weather Bureau official said
that, so far, no estimate of the
strength of the cyclone could be
made.
The bureau forecast heavy rain
for N.S.W. today between the coast
and ranges.
This was the first mention of
a cyclone, the first effects of
which had been felt on the
Tuesday and Wednesday, and
which had already passed the
N.S.W. North Coast and arrived
off Sydney, the centre —from the
fact that the wind tended to veer
to the south during the Friday
morning—being almost oppos-
ite Sydney to the east, and fairly
close.
The metropolitan forecast for
the same day (Friday, 10th)
was: “Further heavy rains,
strengthening easterly winds,
rising seas”—i.e., the conditions
which had developed on the
Wednesday and Thursday.
I have now become accus-
tomed to this forecasting of yes-
terday’s weather today; and,
using my experience and obser-
vation, in conjunction with the
excellent and fairly accurate
forecasts by Lennox Walker in
The Bulletin, I can usually
make an accurate-enough daily
forecast myself. But I am con-
tinually astonished at the
apparent ignorance of the long-
known principles governing the
general behavior of cyclones in
both hemispheres and in all the
big ocean-masses.
An occasional cyclone will
wander off its predictable course
and behave in an unorthodox
manner, an odd one even turn-
ing back on its course and
meandering about vaguely ; but
these are very, very few.
Ninety per cent, or more of
them follow the cyclonic
“party-line,” with slight and
expected variations.
And what is one to make of
"a cyclone is expected to form
on the North Coast this morn-
ing”? The cyclones which
affect the Australian eastern
seaboard, and sometimes the
interior, never, never, “form on
the North Coast.” It is a
meteorological impossibility.
They have travelled many
hundreds of miles, carefully
watched, before they reach the
N.S.W. North Coast.
I do not claim to be an expert
on cyclones, and my meteoro-
logical knowledge is rudiment-
ary, though backed by long
experience ; in my seafaring
days, during which I experienced
“Cripes, this weather makes th' flamin' weeds grow!"
cyclones (called typhoons there,
but the same thing) off the coasts
of Mexico and China, and during
the period, much later, when I
served on light-stations on, and
off, the Queensland coast, the
guiding principles under which
these circular storms operate
were instilled into me by experts.
I have found them, generally
speaking, infallible, and with the
aid of a barometer, and frequent
careful weather-observations, I
have many times predicted the
approach of a cyclone on the
Queensland coast, and fairly
accurately plotted its course and
rate of movement—assisted, of
course, by reports from other
stations and from the Brisbane
Weather Bureau.
During my brief sojourn at
Lady Elliott Island the centre
of a cyclone passed over us. An
eerie and rather frightening
experience is that sudden still-
ness, and silence, except for a
distant, bansheelike moan,
echoing round the walls of that
atmospheric chamber of calm.
Cyclones follow the same
general pattern all over the
world, except that in the
Northern Hemisphere the rota-
tion of the wind is anti-clockwise,
and clockwise in the Southern.
Cyclones rise in the Coral Sea
over a fairly large area, not far
south of the Equator. I assume,
without definite knowledge, that
the exact location in which they
generate determines their course
and whether they will travel
close enough to the coast for
their effects to be felt. Many pass
too far out in the ocean to
affect the weather, or they affect
it very little. An odd one
crosses the coast in the far north
and travels down through
Central Queensland, eventually
swinging away to cross the
N.S.W. North Coast,
When the extreme depression
has generated a cyclone that will
probably affect the Sydney area,
and it has attained sufficient
intensity, it begins to move
roughly S.S.W. The rate of
movement varies considerably,
and is sometimes consistent and
sometimes variable. Some travel
as little as five to 10 miles a day,
others as much as 100 miles or
more. Sometimes one will
hesitate and hang about a par-
ticular area for up to a week
before resuming its devastating
journey, as one I experienced at
Dent Island in the Whitsundays
did.
The course is roughly para-
bolic, with a gradual l approach
to the coast, which it may reach
anywhere between Cape York
and Brisbane ; rarely lower, I
think. A cyclone passing as far
as 200 miles out will affect the
weather a good deal, and closer
than 50 miles the effect is
considerable,
Having reached the coast, or
its closest point to the coast, the
cyclone travels, very roughly,
parallel to it, then swings fairly
sharply out to sea and eventually
loses intensity and peters-out
somewhere in the Tasman sea.
The distance it travels varies
considerably. Some approach
the far-northern coast of Queens-
land and almost immediately
swing out to sea. Many come
as far south as Brisbane before
veering away, and if they are of
severe intensity the weather
along the N.S.W. North Coast
is affected,
A few—more in the last eight
years than I can recall before -
come as far south as Newcastle
and as close as 30 or 40 miles
east thereof, but have usually
then already started the outward
curve. All the N.S.W. coast
will be affected by these in
varying degrees,
A very occasional one—such
as the recent February one I
have referred to—continues on
a southerly course well past
Sydney. Purely from observa-
tion, I should judge that the
centre of this one was due-east
of Sydney between mid-morning
and mid-afternoon of Friday,
February 10.
Some cyclones gradually lose
intensity as they travel, and
these are probably the ones that
swing out to sea early. Some,
such as this last, gain intensity
all the time until they begin to
leave the coast, when the inten-
sity usually lessens gradually,
Now and then, however, one will
retain its intensity until it is
well out into mid-Tasman Sea,
and remain stationary there, or
with little and uncertain move-
ment, for perhaps a week,
making the Tasman-crossing an
unpleasant experience.
The area affected by a big
cyclone may be as much as a
500-miles or more radius from
its centre, the velocity of the
wind diminishing towards the
outer edge. There is no wind
in the centre, the area of which
would, I think, be difficult to
compute. The one I have men-
tioned at Lady Elliott was
travelling slowly at approxi-
mately 30 miles a day, and the
time the calm lasted was a bit
more than an hour (from
memory), so that its centre
would have been from 1 mile
to \\ mile in diameter. It was
not a large one.
I don’t know, and doubt if
anyone else does, whether there
is any relation between the size
of the cyclone and that of its
centre.
The first indications of an
approaching cyclone on the
Queensland coast are a heavy
N.N.E. or E. swell (depending
on the direction of the centre)
and usually a flat calm and hot,
oppressive weather, lasting over
a period varying according to
the distance and rate of
approach, as do the other
portents.
Next, if you are well within
the affected area, and the cyclone
will pass over or to eastward of
you, comes a light E. wind,
gradually increasing and bring-
ing light squalls and ’ showers,
As the storm approaches, the
wind-velocity gradually
increases, with heavier and more
constant rain. If the' storm will
pass over you the wind will
remain E. until you pass the
calm of the centre, when it
suddenly shrieks in from W.
without warning.
If, as usually happens in the
Sydney region, the storm will
pass to the E. at some distance,
the wind, increasing in force
the nearer the centre approaches,
gradually veers to the S.S.E.
and then S., when the centre
will be due-east of your position,
The centre past, the wind veers
to the S.W., and, the cyclone
then usually having begun its
outward curve, the weather
clears rapidly; the wind gradu-
ally eases, and finally, when it
is well past, there will be a
light westerly wind as the storm
trails its ragged hem behind it.
There is no definite cyclone-
season. It is said to be from
December to February ; but we
frequently experience them as
late as May, and I remember
clearly a year (I think 1950)
when we had one in May, two
in June, and one early in
August. In fact, my recollection
is that they have tended to get
later over the past 15 years,
Extremely accurate forecasts
G f the approach and progress of
a cyclone are issued by Brisbane
Weather Bureau, from the first
report from the lonely weather-
station at Willis Island, itself
on the .fringe of the Coral Sea,
until it has passed or dissipated,
I should imagine the informa-
tion from which these forecasts
are made, gathered from fre-
quent reports from light-stations
and others, is available to the
N.S.W. weather-men, and if not
already supplied should be asked
for—and used,
Sydney weather-forecasts, as
served-up in the press, are the
most inaccurate I have met any-
where in the world,
What is more, they appear un-
necessarily inaccurate some-
times. To quote only one
instance, I remember a night in
the summer of 1953 when I was
U p and about until 3 a.m. It
commenced raining heavily and
steadily about 9 p.m. and con-
tinued all that night and all next
day and well into the following
night without intermission. The
metropolitan-forecast for the 24
hours from 9 a.m., to my utter
confusion, was: “Mainly fine,
with occasional showers” ; as it
had been the day before.
I don’t know what time the
bureau has to. hand in its fore-
cast to the “Herald,” but surely
it need not be much before
midnight. Surely it would not
have been impossible, when the
unrelenting, unremitting rain
made it apparent that that par-
ticular forecast would probably
be most inaccurate, to withdraw
it and amend it.
I suggest that a few hints
from Lennox Walker and data
from the Queensland bureau
should ensure some advance
information on the daily weather
which does not rival the news-
paper comics.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE MIND OF NIPPON
FOR obvious-enough reasons
most overseas comment on
Japan tends to concentrate on
politics and economics, so it is
interesting to find Hamilton Fish
Armstrong, editor of the U.S.
quarterly “Foreign Affairs,” giv-
ing considerable space to an
examination of the mentality of
post-war Japan.
“Even a first visitor to Japan,”
Armstrong notes, “does not
remain oblivious for long of the
tensions concealed beneath the
smooth surface of Japanese
reticence and politeness”:
“Lafcadio Hearn wrote a half-
century ago that ‘the Japanese
lives not by thought, by emotion,
but by duty.’ The classical rules
of obligation and duty, with their
emphasis on codified tradition
rather than individual decision,
have been shaken deeply in the
past 10 .years ; but they are still
potent, and the effort to live up
to them in the new conditions
created by Japan’s first major
defeat in history and first foreign
occupation produces strains of
its own. Little by little you come
to feel that you are among a
people possessing immense
powers of self-control and at the
same time existing singly and
collectively close to the break-
ing-point.
“The breaking-point comes
when obligations conflict. This
is something which always
threatens, for they pervade every
phase of life duty to the
Emperor and to the nation, to
one’s parents, to one’s reputation.
When the conflict is irreconcil-
able there is a real nervous crisis.
For the individual it may end in
suicide ; this does not, as with
us, indicate despair, but such a
high degree of self-discipline and
courage as to be in itself an act
of virtue.
“For the nation, the only
honorable exit from what seems
a humiliating situation will not
be national suicide, of course,
but still an act of national des-
peration, a throw of the dice for
revenge and glory unlimited, or
for ruin. This manner of paying
the people’s debt to Emperor and
country may be imposed on the
civilian authorities by fanatical
nationalists in the armed forces,
as in Manchuria in 1931, or it
may be by choice of the
dominant governing clique, as in
the secret dispatch of the
Japanese Fleet to Pearl Harbor in
1941 while Ambassadors Kurusu
and Nomura were still negoti-
ating with [U.S.] Secretary Hull.
“Since the war, the tendency to
violence in both private and
public life has been checkedthe
suicide-rate has fallen, and there
is a pause in what had become
the habitual and methodical
assassination of political leaders.
Nor are there visible fiortents at
present of violent actions ahead
in the international field. The
national patrimony accumulated
by years of incredibly hard work
since the Meiji Restoration was
squandered in one gigantic
gamble, and today the country
lacks the material resources to
undertake programmes of con-
quest even if its rulers still had
the ambitions of a quarter-
century ago. One era has closed,
one method of attempted adjust-
ment to the realities of personal
and national environment has
ended in failure. The new era
has hardly begun, the new
method has not yet been decided.
“The tradition that there are
stern penalties for being caught
in the web of conflicting duties
has schooled the Japanese to
avoid making categorical state-
ments and taking hard-and-fast
positions. In politics, specifically,
their realisation since the war
of how completely their former
leaders miscalculated Japan’s
capacity to seize a dominating
place in the world has increased
their reluctance to commit them-
selves to fixed opinions or pro-
grammes. Leftist leaders exhort
and warn ; but where they speak
concretely it is usually against
something, and where they are
for something it usually is vague.
“When I questioned them
about international issues I
found them as much handi-
capped as everyone else by their
lack of knowledge of what the
world has been doing and think-
ing in Japan’s 15 years of isola-
tion from it; and on social ques-
tions I found them unable or
unwilling to define their Marxist
slogans in concrete domestic
terms. Among the leaders of the
great Centre parties, with
honorable exceptions, the golden-
rule has been prudence.
“Whatever ambition the
Japanese have had to regain poise
and a sense of direction has not
been helped by the fact that we
first imposed one set of policies
on them, and then urged them to
do, in important respects, just
the contrary. We treated the
Germans in a similar way, first
with edicts against fraternisation
and militarism, then with exhor-
tations to join their brothers in
the Western camp and rearm.
But the Germans possessed the
material basis for creating a new
national prosperity by their own
hard work, and their economic
rebound from the war has given
them back their pride and self-
assurance - some would say
almost too amply. The Japanese
lacked the physical means for
building their own life afresh and
thus gaining a renewal of self-
esteem and confidence.
“Wherever one travels today—
Istanbul or Tehran, Buenos Aires
or Djakarta—German salesmen,
engineers and bankers are found
crowding into Government- and
business-offices, offering German
wares and services on the easiest
terms. They meet with special
success in underdeveloped and
formerly colonial areas, for,
having been losers in the war,
they are not suspected of im-
perialism.
“Japan was also a loser, but her
exports do not enjoy similar
advantages. They have succeeded
in marketing a varying line of
goods in many foreign countries ;
indeed, they are considered
potentially such dangerous com-
petitors that when Japan was
recently admitted to the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(Gatt), Britain, France, Aus-
tralia and 10 other important
export-markets for Japan made
reservations depriving her of
important advantages.
“The fact remains that
Japanese traders encounter ex-
change-difficulties in buying their
former supplies of raw materials
in South-East Asia, and are ex-
cluded, so far, from their prin-
cipal former markets in China.
Moreover, in the Philippines,
Formosa, Indonesia, Hong Kong,
Thailand, Burma and Malaya the
Japanese are remembered as
conquerors, and, despite im-
proving relations, Japanese
traders still operate there under
a hostile handicap.
“Unlike the Germans, too, the
Japanese have been tasting defeat
for the first time, and their reac-
tions remind foreigners more of
the German behavior after 1918
than since 1945. In the First
World War it never seems to
have occurred to the Germans
that they could have been beaten.
The war was a German war, and
Imperial Germany was united
under the Kaiser in patriotic
fervor to win it. Defeat came
as a crippling shock. Nobody
wanted to take over responsi-
bility from those who had failed.
Governments were weak and
lacked direction. There was a
passion for amusement.
“The second war and the
second defeat were different for
Germany. The war was a Nazi
war. The people were not
united. When defeat came,
they guessed in advance what it
would be like. Somehow it was
less of a psychological shock to
find again that German leaders
had miscalculated, that Ger-
many once more had gambled
wrong and still was not going
San Diego ( U.S.A .) “Union”
DRILLING FOR OIL
to rule the world. After the
successive failures of the Kaiser,
Weimar and the Nazis, the
natural temptation was to float
politically, to avoid engaging in
parties or programmes. Yet the
free part of Germany has
developed quite a cohesive
political structure. Nobody
would accuse Chancellor
Adenauer of unwillingness to
accept responsibility or of in-
decisiveness in using it.
“Japan fought the Second
World War on the losing side.
The Japanese fought it under
their Emperor, and their rever-
ence for him, their duty toward
him, made them happy to sacri-
fice everything in his name,
their lives, of course, included.
It was a national war, fought in
a Kamikaze spirit. Defeat was
stupefying.
“Parallels must not be exag-
gerated, for many of the cir-
cumstances differ. The Allied
attitude toward Germany was
much less punitive in 1945 than it
had been in 1918 ; however, it
was not harsh toward Japan in
1945, either. In Germany after
this war the Allied policy was to
replace the German Adminis-
tration, local and national; in
Japan, on the other hand,
General MacArthur tried to
reform and utilise the Japanese
Administration.
“In spite of this advantage,
Japan’s response to the chal-
lenges of defeat has not been
like Germany’s. By comparison,
she has seemed to be marking-
time. There is intense pre-
occupation with amusements of
every sort theatres, fairs,
excursions, Pachinko gambling-
emporiums, all are jammed.
The programmes of political
parties are not clearly defined,
and political doings excite only
mild public interest. A study
made for Unesco indicates that
even among young people the
urge to play an active role in
politics is negligible (though this
does not mean they are un-
concerned about issues like
military service that touch them
directly).
“Japanese often blame the
prevailing mood of hesitation
and indifference on the loss
of confidence in traditional
beliefs, and observances. Old-
established ethical standards
have been undermined, but
people have not yet found new
ones which they can fully
respect. The Japanese were not
averse from the democratic
reforms ordered by the Occupa-
tion authorities; it is a
commonplace to say that, as a
people, they are highly adapt-
able, and when their old
methods and principles failed
they were more than willing to
try those which had been
proved more successful.
“Or did they only think that
they wanted to try them?
Study of the Japanese youth
indicates that democratic
principles often have been
accepted in the abstract, but are
not considered applicable in the
Japanese social context, where
respect for public authority and
filial obedience contradict ideas
of individual judgment and
independent action.
“It is while they are still in a
most unsettled frame of mind,
then, that the Japanese people
now find themselves subjected
to the pulls of conflicting
interest set in motion by the
Cold War. They are unsure of
their friends, their enemies and,
above all, themselves; Their
inner thoughts, if we could
know them, would probably be
surprising.
“Like others caught in the
Cold War, the Japanese wish
they could escape into some
magic haven of calm. Argu-
ments are beginning to be heard
whether Japan might not find
neutrality a possible role. There
is a good deal of confusion as
to what would be the price of
making the effort or, still more,
of succeeding in it.
“In longing for neutrality the
Japanese are not different from
myriads of others all around
the globe. Most people every-
where think of neutrality as
signifying peace; and since
they yearn for peace they
wonder whether commitments
to either of the great camps
might not be avoided, or, if
already in existence, made less
binding, less automatic. Further,
Japan’s history of militaristic
misrule, her frightful war-
losses and her experience with
atomic bombing do give her
more title to be irrationally
pacifist than many others who
seek to flee the obligations and
risks of the world as it is.
“It was not by chance, then,
that the Soviets opened their
propaganda - drive to bring
Japan into the so-called
‘neutrality-belt’ even before
they made similar bids to
Austria, Yugoslavia and, most
recently, Germany. In
‘Pravda’s’ words, neutrality is
now ‘on the agenda of con-
temporary life.’ It appears
there under various titles—
‘areas of peace’ (Nehru), ‘active
coexistence’ (Tito), ‘active
neutrality’ (Vice-President Hatta
of Indonesia), ‘virile neutrality’
(‘Le Monde,’ Paris). As yet the
slogan for Japan has not been
formulated. But since the
Japanese are still so deeply
under the impression of the
defeat and Occupation it will
probably emphasise mistrust of
both the great antagonists, of
course with the specific purpose
of reducing Japan’s feeling
about the United States to the
level of her traditional feeling
about Russia. If the Japanese
could be brought to lump the
Soviet Union and the United
States together in suspicion and
dislike, that would represent a
tremendous Soviet advance.”
Learn to live
with your worries
• Some anxieties are useful: they
spur you to greater effort. But
many worries simply distort
your judgment and wear you
down.
In March Reader’s Digest
author Ardis Whitman tells the
kind of worry you should learn
to overcome, and how you can
wisely profit by putting sensible
anxieties to good use.
Then there’s “Private Life
of Adolf Hitler,” “The one
and only Benchley,” “World’s
most wonderful store,” “House-
keeping at the Arctic’s edge,”
“The test that tells how fast
we live” —a wealth of articles
from leading magazines and
current books in the March
issue, now on sale. Only two
shillings at all newsagents and
bookstalls.
Freedom of the Air
Talking-points raised by the
suggestion that the British Gov-
ernment should jam inflamma-
tory Greek broadcasts from
Athens to Cyprus:
London “News Chronicle”:
“Certainly these Greek broad-
cast-attacks have been unprin-
cipled. Obviously they have
succeeded in inciting young
Cypriots to violence. But we
[Britain] have been broadcast
at (if there is such a phrase) by
Berlin, Rome and Moscow in
abundance. Instead of jam-
ming Lord Haw-Haw we tuned-
in to him and survived the
experience.
“Jamming means fear. It
means fear of the truth, or fear
of lies. In Cyprus the jamming
would presumably be for the
benefit of Cypriots, but it would
still —and this is the least argu-
ment against it —betoken fear.
“More important, as The
Times’ has pointed out, is the
destruction of a principle to
which there should be no excep-
tions. At one stroke all our
criticism of Soviet jamming
becomes hypocrisy.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian
“Never before, in war-time or
in peace, has the British Gov-
ernment jammed foreign broad-
casts. Nor, so far as is known,
has the United States. We have
been able to claim, in contrast
to the dictatorships and the
Communist Governments, that
we were ready to let people
judge the truth for themselves.
This is one of the strongest
moral claims which the Western
democracies have been able to
make.”
The same : “People will say—
and they will be justified that
when the British Government is
in difficulty its fine moral prin-
ciples take second place.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph :
“There is nothing sacrosanct
about the radio, and if, on bal-
ance, jamming would help to end
terrorism in Cyprus, jamming
there should be.
“But we are bound to say that
in our view it would not. It is
possible to argue indefinitely,
about the laws which should
govern freedom of speech, and
about where liberty ends and
licence begins. But in this case
jamming would be too late, too
open to retaliation and too sus-
ceptible of misinterpretation.”
* V *
“Yorkshire Post”: “If
[British] Government decides on
jamming it will be throwing
away a tradition of maintaining
the freedom of the ether a tra-
dition upheld even when our


8
m
■ ■
ms! :
mm&
.
.
.
I
WJ
S
* 25®
■••■-« mmm
m
H—
|:*PSiSBlii^^*
5.5-55
SSS
SSSSKSSa&S?
5
>l5-555:
;-55:-x»
s /> > 5 <■ ->'
Holden has all the features
that mean most to you
Because Holden is designed and
I built specifically for Australian
conditions, no other car combines
all its advantages at such low cost.
For from £B7O plus sales tax, Holden gives
you a 6-cylinder, 21 h.p. engine; out-
standing economy (30 m.p.g. is reported by
many owners); proven dependability and
low maintenance costs; Australia-wide
availability of spare parts; high resale
value; clean good looks and comfort for a
family of six.
Ever since Holden was first produced,
hundreds of owners have written spon-
taneous letters of satisfaction.
From Armadale, W.A., Mr. M. M.
Paterson wrote: 9
I feel you are justly entitled to this
little note of my experience over nearly
70,000 miles of very pleasurable motoring ...
The car has been over a large part of our
country roads and tracks and has given
unfailing satisfaction under all conditions .. .
The car is driven hard all the year round,
and one of its most pleasing features has been
its capacity to retain performance without
continual tinkering and adjustment. . .
I know of nothing within £5OO to £6OO of the
price to equal my Holden for all round
performance and safety on any road
More Australians buy Holden than any
other make simply because Holden offers
the best value for money there is on the
Australian car market.
The demand for Holden continues to be
heavy, so may we suggest that you place
your order as soon as possible.
HOLDEN *
Australia’s Own Car
LIST PRICES FROM £B7O PLUS TAX
* REGISTERED TRADE MARK
•Convenient GMAC hire, purchase
arrangements are available.
•“Air Chief ” car radio is specially
designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
existence was at stake in the
Second World War. It will serve
notice on the world that it
chooses to stifle the opponent’s
voice rather than to meet him in
argument. And it will be setting
a precedent which will assuredly
be followed if it seems expedi-
ent to do so in the future.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “We
are not arguing about the merits
of free speech at Hyde Park
Corner or Glasgow Green. We
are dealing with outrageous lies
and incitements to murder and
terrorism directed at excitable
people whose reaction to hostile
propaganda is very different
from our own.
“There is no point in compar-
ing ‘Lord Haw-Haw’ with the
rabble-rousers in Athens and
Cairo.
“ ‘Lord Haw-Haw,’ with his
‘Gairmany calling,’ became a
national entertainment. The
Grecian and Egyptian subverters
are taken in deadly earnest. They
have enormous influence, and
their goadings have inflamed the
peoples of Cyprus and Jordan
to violence and murder.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“Freedom of the air is invoked
in support of the Athens broad-
casts to Cyprus. But since
when did the right to freedom
include the right to incite to
murder? Freedom of the press
would be no defence. Any editor
who published the messages that
radiate from Athens would find
himself in jail—and so would
those who distributed the
papers.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”: “It
is hardly surprising that those
responsible for restoring order
have reserved the right to jam
Athens broadcasts to Cyprus if
they consider it necessary. This
proposal has provoked a number
of heated r protests at our pos-
sible abandonment of what the
‘Manchester Guardian’ chose to
call ‘a principle of universal
application.’
“What principle? The ‘free-
dom of the air’? What nonsense!
If we chose, by technical means
easily at our disposal, to prevent
our supposed allies ih Athens
from inciting the people of
Cyprus to riot and revolt, could
it really be argued that we were
weakening our case against
Russian jamming of Western
broadcasts? If we forgo the
jamming of Athens radio —thus
allowing the Greeks to be heard
to say things they will eventually
want to deny they ever said —
will the Russians be more dis-
posed to stop their jamming of
the 8.8. C.?
“Of course not. The prin-
ciple we stand for is that of the
free exchange of information
and ideas. If the Western radio-
stations were busy inciting the
Russians and the East Euro-
peans to revolt (which they are
not) Russian jamming would be
justified. If Russian broadcasts
to this country [Britain] had an
appreciable audience and
appeared likely to provoke a
revolution we should lose no
time in jamming them.”
U.K. Economy
Background comment to the
British Government’s latest anti-
inflation moves:
London “Daily Mail ” ; “The
truth of the whole matter is that
Britain must earn as much as she
spends, and, at the moment, she
is not doing it. If our prices are
too high our exports will fall,
and so will our standards of
living.”
* * *
“New York Times” : “Britain
has a population that lives by
what it exports. Hence it must
produca the right goods at com-
petitive prices and sell enough
of them abroad to purchase food
and raw materials, maintain the
value of the pound sterling, keep
up a high and rising standard of
living at home and, on top of
all this, create a structure of
military security that ranks in the
world only after the United
States and Russia. All this has
to be done —or attempted—after
the devastating impoverishment
of two world wars and a long
economic crisis in between.
“Whenever one thinks of
these things it almost seems as
if that tight little island was being
called upon to perform a
miracle.”
* * *
London “Financial Times ” ;
“Pressure is now building-up to
London “Time and Tide”
FOR ASIAN AUDIENCES
a large series of wage-increases.
The demands total some £4OO
million, and of that sum a con-
siderable part will have to be
met. There cannot for a moment
be any suggestion that there is
a breathing-space in which in-
flation can be brought under
control. The Government’s
struggle against inflation is a
campaign, against an advancing
enemy.” 4*
The same: “The Prime Min-
ister’s appeal to industry to try
to keep prices do\yn will receive
a sympathetic hearing, all the
more because he prefaced it with
his promises to reduce Govern-
ment expenditure. As price-
increases have a chain action
every attempt should be made
to limit them to a minimum.
“On the other hand, the pres-
sure for higher prices will con-
tinue. Only in some industries
can wage-increases be absorbed.
Higher transport- and coal-prices
could well come before many
months are out, and if they do,
extra pressure will be put on the
rest of industry. In this way one
can only entertain restricted
hopes for the purely psycho-
logical part of the campaign for
price-stabilisation.”
* * *
London ‘‘-Economist” : “Do
the Prime Minister and the City
[London’s financial centre]
realise that to curb inflation and
to try to tone-down an increase
in prices are by no means neces-
sarily the same thing?
“The suspicion arises that the
Prime Minister, at any rate, does
not. Many people have concluded
that the Government intends to
ask employers and trade-unions
for their co-operation in a ‘pact’
to hold down prices and wages,
although presumably (and very
dangerously) this would not
come into effect until after the
current round of wage-increases
has battered its way through the
soft shell of employers’ resis-
tance.
“Whatever the other merits or
demerits of such an agreement,
it should be made clear from
the start that it would not be an
anti-inflationary policy. Indeed,
in one sense of the word ‘infla-
tion’ (the sense of ‘pressure upon
resources’), it would be a deliber-
ately inflationary act.
“Obviously, if the present
round of wage-increases is not
followed by a similar round of
price-increases, then the new!
and higher level of real wages
will enable British consumers
to drag more real resources into
domestic markets and away from
export markets. A voluntary
price-freeze would help, not
hinder, them in doing that. What
is needed is to cure the
fever, not to hold down the
thermometer.”
The Soviet
Commenting on the Soviet’s
new five-year plan (for 1956-60),
London “Economist” notes that
the first impression is the Russian
economy “starting its sixth lap
at a scarcely-slackened pace”:
“Once again, national income
is to be increased by 60 per
cent.; industrial production
during the same period is to be
raised by 65 per cent., compared
with the 70 per cent, planned for
the last five years. True, the
objectives of the previous plan
were substantially exceeded, but
there is no reason why the new
ones should not be surpassed
too. The overfulfilment of in-
dustrial targets, particularly of
those for heavy-industry, has
now become part of an estab-
lished pattern.
“The fate of the consumer will
greatly depend on the success
of the agricultural plan, but here
the precedents do not inspire
great confidence. The failure of
the last plan can be gauged from
the fact that the grain-target for
1960—180 million tons is
exactly the same as for 1955.
It would appear that to break
this deadlock the plannners now
rely more on further mechanisa-
tion and a greater use of fer-
tilisers than on Mr. Khrushchev’s
shock-treatment through the
‘conquest of virgin lands.’
“A total of 1,650,000 new
tractors are to appear in the
countryside during the next five
years—about as many as are now
available —but it is doubtful
whether the planners will really
succeed, over such a short period,
in doubling the productivity of
the Russian farmer.
“But despite its agricultural
Achilles-heel, Russia presents a
tremendous economic challenge
to the West. Not only has it
grown from a backward country
into Europe’s industrial giant,
but it now begins to compare
with Western standards of pro-
duction per head of population.
“By 1960 Soviet output per
head of the basic industrial com-
mg.dities will approach the
present West European one,
though it will still lag far behind
the American levels.”
On the Soviet’s external affairs
London “Time and Tide” com-
ments that “the twists and turns
are less inconsistent than they
appear and have their own
internal logic, even if at times
it is only the logic of sowing
as much confusion as possible in
the West”:
“If the Western press reacted
less violently to the Soviet mood
the confusion would be reduced.
A smile from Bulganip does not
mean peace and a scowl from
Khrushchev does not mean war.
Behind both smiles and scowls
there is a great singleness of pur-
pose.
“There is no secret about this
purpose. It is restated regularly
in the Soviet press and most
recently, with admirable clarity,
in the January issue of ‘Kom-
munist,’ the weightiest Soviet
political journal. In an article
entitled ‘Some Questions of Con-
temporary Capitalism,’ V. Chep-
rakov is at great pains to refute
the contention of ‘bourgeois’
economists that the modifications
which have taken place in our
capitalist economy have upset
the basic conclusions of Marx
and Lenin. He states the Com-
munist case without the least
ambiguity :
“ ‘Between the victory of the
proletariat in our country—a
victory that opened the epoch
of world revolution —and the
final destruction of world capi-
talism lies the whole historical
period of the general crisis of
capitalism. This period is full
of rivalry and struggle between
Communism and capitalism,
which will end inevitably in the
victory of Communism... .since
the transition from capitalism to
socialism on a world scale takes
up a whole epoch, the relative
length of the epoch of the dying-
away of capitalism is natural; if
is this that predetermines the
historical inevitability of the co-
existence of two different social
systems.’
“Even those unaccustomed
to Communist phraseology can-
not fail to see what Mr. Chep-
rakov is saying—that the funda-
mental conflict in the world
today is between Communism
and ‘Capitalism.’ It is the Com-
munists’ belief that our form
of society is doomed and that
the Soviet, Russian-dominated,
imperialist Communism will
triumph ‘inevitably.’ How long
our ‘dying-away’ will take is
not certain, and the unpleasant
necessity of coexisting with us
is therefore to be accepted, but
it is obviously the duty of every
Comniunist, and especially all
those who rule in the Kremlin,
to make this period as short as
possible and assist in every
way the ‘inevitable’ process of
history.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Beer-gardens or Beds?
Drive about the suburbs and some of
the larger N. S. Wales country-towns and
you’ll see where fortunes have been spent
on beer-gardens, no expense having been
spared to provide drinkers with comfort
and entertainment.
What great places these hotels would be
if even half the amount had been spent
on beds, baths and facilities for the travel-
ler to sleep and eat in comfort!
Despite the stock excuse that shortage
of staff prevents the publican from pro-
viding traveller-comforts, there is no
shortage of staff in the beer-gardens. —
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
Hanging
The House of Commons vote against
hanging for murder should remind Aus-
tralians that it’s time we also settled the
question once and for all —on a national
The fact that abolition has been almost
achieved in a country where the hangman
has been considered a necessary part of
the legal machinery for centuries —58
people were once sentenced to death in
one day at the Old Bailey—indicates a
definite world-trend. In countries which
have done away with capital punishment
murder has not increased ; in some cases
It has decreased.
Hanging belongs to the days of dun-
geons, leg-irons and torture-chambers.
Man is becoming increasingly aware that
prevention of crime does .not imply the
savage punishment of wrongdoers so
much as education, improved social-con-
ditions and treatment of the victims of
their own impulses and weaknesses.
The death-penalty in Australia is a
matter of party-policy, its application
differing in various States and fluctuating
with the political see-saw. The ludicrous-
ness of this position is seen in the fact that
murderers solemnly condemned by the
courts have been saved from the rope
by a change of Government.
It is time for complete review by the
Federal Government of the whole matter
of capital punishment, even if it means
revision of the criminal laws of each
State— Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Leaving-certificate English
“Wackford’s” reasons for the decline
in the standard of Leaving Certificate
English passes in N. S. Wales (B.
15/2/’56) are hardly satisfactory.
It’s a common, but erroneous, assump-
tion that teachers of English are not
specialists. In Department of Education
high schools, which prepare the majority
of students, teachers of English are
specialists in the narrowest sense of the
word. Nearly all of them are B.A.s who
majored in English and history, and most
of them, on graduating, studied the
methods of teaching English when doing
their post-graduate work for the Diploma
of Education. In the five N. S. Wales
high schools where I have worked I have
not met a non-specialist teacher of Eng-
lish teaching Intermediate Certificate
candidates, let alone those studying for
the L.C. .
It is difficult to obtain definite informa-
tion as to the academic qualifications of
private-school teachers of English, but the
standard of passes in the best of these
schools indicates the teaching to be both
authoritative and skilful.
I don’t think you can blame the stud-
ents’ lack of reading, either. L.C. students
read as much today as they ever did, but
one seriously doubts whether they have
the intellectual and emotional receptivity
of students of earlier generations. In dis-
cussion and written work there is little
evidence of the imaginative faculty. The
distractions of post-war life are no doubt
largely responsible for these shortcom-
ings. Among them, from the point of
view of the English-teacher, must be listed
the greater interest among candidates in
mathematics and the sciences. These sub-
jects have little transfer-value to the study
of English, as have the subjects that they
have largely displaced —Latin, French
and history.
The best explanation of the declining
standard is suggested in “Wackford’s”
statistics. Statistically, it is not valid to
compare the 1949 and the 1955 figures for
passes in English. In 1949 the students’
knowledge of both language and literature
was tested in one paper ; in 1955 it was
tested in two.
The present language- or expression-
paper requires a far more thorough know-
ledge of the essentials of written language
than did its predecessor and, in some
respects, so does the literature-paper.
Thus, it is not simply a matter of poorer
teaching and poorer pupils; rather, it is
largely one of examiners with higher and
more exacting standards. And rightly
so. — Badiped (N.S.W.).
School Discipline
I am in favor of caning in schools
(B. 8/2/’56), because in each class of
50 there is always a percentage for whom
caning is the only cure for disobedience.
No adult likes hitting a child, so when
Tommy did what he was told not to do I
reasoned with him and he tactfully agreed
with every word. When he persisted in
his disobedience I warned him that next
time he would be hit. Came the next
time and he was, and the result was
obedience without any ill-will. — Sohano
(Q-).
Why Flood-relief?
I have every sympathy with the women
and children who get caught in floods,
but surely the people whose properties
are devastated know all the risks in
advance and are prepared to take them
for the sake of big profits in the lush
years. It seems that we taxpayers are
carrying some of the insurance for
people who know quite well that a flood
every so often is inevitable.
It is a gamble to live in these places
and invest in them, just as it is a gamble
to put stock on some of the really arid
areas, but I’d like to see the public and
"H for Harry, E for Eddy, L for leather, I for Loy, C for Charlie,
O for orange, P for penny, T for two, E for Eddy, R for -”
political reaction to the suggestion that
public money should be spent on restock-
ing properties after a drought. News-
paper articles have recently noted that
the Hunter Valley, for example, is one
of the richest agricultural valleys in the
world because of the floods. This means
that in non-flood years everyone there
should be making a packet—including
enough to cover losses in the floods that
all of them know must come.
I agree with Sir Earle Page that the
long-range answer is flood-prevention and
"It’s me that he’s after — I Went out with his girl last night."
flood-mitigation. But, in the meantime,
what about piping-down a bit on this
relief-business? Then the Government
might tackle the real problem a little
sooner. —In the Act (A.C.T.).
Britain and the U.S.
“Terry the Tory” (B. 21/12/’55)
points-up my contentions (B. 4/5 / ’55)
when he quotes the hundreds of millions
of pounds that were invested by Britons
in American industry in the 19th century,
only to be liquidated in two world wars.
That amount of money ploughed-back
into the activities of the people of Britain
would have resulted in a set of conditions
far different from those written of by
Robert Blatchford in “The Clarion,” in
articles which appeared in the book The
White Slaves of England in the ’nineties.
There also would have been a far smaller
export-crop of convicts to the Americas
and to Australia.
This ploughing-back of the money to
form a home market was, so to speak,
the ball England fumbled, and the one
that Henry Ford, two or three decades
ago, picked up and shot for goal.—
8.N.F., California, U.S.A.
Mowbray House
With the death of headmaster Lancelot
Bavin early this year, Mowbray House
School, Chatswood (N.S.W.), is to be
converted into an Electricity Commission
sub-station and offices. It’s an ignoble
end for the gracious tree-surrounded
buildings where the Bavin family built-
up one of Sydney’s finest prep.-schools —
a school that produced three Rhodes
Scholars and scores of other celebrities.
The main building now awaits recon-
struction as a modern office-block, the
playground harbors a dozen or so of the
gum-green commission trucks, and the
field, with its nets and centre cricket-pitch,
is now carved by a broad gravel roadway.
Before his death the Old Man opposed
all moves either to shift or knock-down
the school chapel. Placed some 50yds.
below the main building, this is surely the
nicest bit of miniature church-making in
Sydney. If it can’t be kept where it is, it
should at least be moved to an equally
attractive site. — Adrian Wintle (N.S.W.).
Japan
The appointment of the experienced
Sir Alan Watt, formerly Australian Com-
missioner in South-East Asia and Singa-
pore,, as Ambassador to Japan highlights
the increasing importance of that coun-
try’s trade- and other relations with Aus-
tralia. The question of trade, however, is
still a delicate one.
A year or so ago (B. 17/11/’54) I
wrote in “Other Fellow’s Mind” that
everything must be done to see that
Japan, then in a bad way economically,
“recovers its economic strength and be-
comes a strong member of the free world”
—for “it is better to have the strength
and power of a revived Japan on our side
than against us.” All of which is still
true, except that Japan is no longer in a
‘ffiad way economically” and has revived
in a remarkably short time,
Japan is making rapid economic pro-
gress. It is now, after Britain, the second-
biggest shipbuilding nation in the world,
most of its industries are booming, and
it is looking all over the world for trade.
(Recently a bill was sponsored in the U.S.
Congress to restrict imports of Japanese
textiles; but Mr. Dulles, U.S. Secretary
of State, rightly opposed it, and the bill
was rejected.)
The Menzies Government appears to be
handling Australia-Japan trade capably
—it has doubled over the past 12 months
or so, with the balance in our favor. But
Japan wishes to increase “substantially”
its wool-imports, and there have been a
few Japanese businessmen in Australia
lately seeking to step-up trade in other
directions.
The Federal Government supported
Japan’s admission to the General Agree-
ment on Tariffs and Trade —which, how-
ever, does not apply to trade between
the two countries —and has done well in
handling import-quotas from non-dollar
trading-areas such as Japan.
For instance, although total imports
have not been increased at all lately, Aus-
tralian importers can now choose their
imports over a wider field. Also, the re-
served list limits competition by Japanese
goods with similar goods from other
countries, and with home products, while
at the same time enabling Japanese
exporters to obtain a larger share of Aus-
tralian trade. Which should satisfy
everyone.
Japan must remain with the West, and
to do so must trade with the West. The
Australian Government seems to be doing
its share along these lines. — Kros (S.A.).
Teaching
Twenty-five years ago, when I first
started teaching in primary schools, there
was an idea that teachers should teach.
No benevolent Parents and Citizens’ Asso-
ciation supplied the school with radios,
tape-recorders and duplicators, nor did
industrious gentlemen produce textbook
after textbook.
We were shown our class and told to
go to it. From 9.30 to 3.30 —lunch eaten
standing as we supervised the playground
—we slaved at them and hoped that what
they did learn they learned from us.
This year my son entered fourth-class
in an N.S.W. primary school and brought
home a list of books needed to “enable
him to make the best use of his educa-
tion.” Cost: 355. What on earth it wm
be when he reaches high-school fifth-
year I am afraid to think.
These textbooks have their uses, and
in some schools were used moderately
25 years ago. Today they are being over-
used in a rather foolish attempt to turn
children into students before they have
stabilised themselves as pupils. Fourth-
class boys (nine-year age-group) have to
be taught; they are not capable mentally
of taking textbooks and learning their
work from them.
Possibly I’ve reached the “good ola
days” stage of life, but this I know: 1
spend nights teaching my lad work from
his textbooks that his teacher is paid to
teach him. — Obadiah B. (N.S.W)-


Britain and Australia
“Burr-Imul” (B. 15/2/’56) isn’t the
only one who dreams of transporting
Britain’s industries to Australia, leaving
the Old Country as a purely agricultural
and cultural centre.
It’s a pleasant dream, but where are the
fine roads, the adequate bridges, the
efficient, speedy network of railways
needed for large-scale industrial expan-
sion? Where is the plentiful, never-
failing water-supply, piped to allow for
colossal demand?
Where are the housing and transport
for millions of extra workers? Where the
schools for their children, the hospitals
for their sick? And where are the ports
with the most up-to-date equipment and
the highly-organised and reliable labor-
force that would ensure the fastest turn-
round for the ships?
Isn’t the solution a joint industrial-
development policy, as advocated by Sir
Clifford Heathcote-Smith in a recent issue
of “Everybody’s”? He suggests a bi-
lateral Australian-U.K. Advisory Council
to “cover all aspects of resettlement —
numbers, rate, social services, finance,
housing, and transport.” He calls this “a
modest beginning.”— Narumee (Vic.).
Labor’s Line
Since 1949 it has become plain that
the A.L.P. is selling a line that doesn’t
appeal to the average Australian, new or
old.
Labor’s policy of socialisation of the
means of industry, production, distribu-
tion and exchange is unwholesome in an
expanding country such as this. Not
only is it antiquated but it provides first-
class ammunition for Labor’s opponents
at each election and embarrasses those
individual' candidates who signed the
socialisation pledge only to secure en-
dorsement.
It would be interesting to know just
how many of those who cast their votes
for Labor at the recent Federal election
really believe in the policy that looms
so large in the party’s platform.
Consider the case of a 30-year-old man.
He was bom in 1926, when the post-war
boom was at its height, and was only
13 years of age when the last war started.
He was too young to know anything of
the depression or to serve in the armed
forces during the war.
It is useless for the A.L.P. to try to
sell this man a Socialist policy taken
into the party’s platform in 1921.
Most vjorkers today realise that their
prosperity—with that of the country —de-
pends on the prosperity of the industry
that employs them. They can see for
themselves the conditions that apply in
such State instrumentalities as
and are sensible enough to realise that
prosperous industries subject to fair-
yage arbitration offer much more.
The A.L.P. will have a future only
when it produces a platform that will
help to make industry prosperous and,
at the same time, help the worker to get
his fair share.— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Queensland Hotels
How does the present application of
the Queensland Liquor Acts assist to re-
lieve the accommodation-shortage?
There were 1379 licensed-victuallers in
the State (population 386,803) in 1890—
It always growls like that at policemen!”
approximately one pub to every 280 per-
sons. In 1953 there were 1234 pubs (pop.
1,298,543), or one to about 1052 persons,
representing a loss of 145 pubs and a
population-increase of 911,740.
I don t know how many more licences
rave gone overboard since then, but
Queensland s population at the last cen-
- U l ( l 0/6 i 54) u ad increased to 1 >318,393,
which makes the gap even wider.
In the 10 years 1944-53 hotels de-
creased by 46 (1280 to 1234), at the rate
of 4.6 a year.
An amending Act in 1935 decreed that
the number of existing licences be not
increased. Surely in a rapidly-expanding
country fewer hotels must mean more
swill and less accommodation. And with
an ever-rising consumption of liquor,
those licensees that remain reap a richer
bar-trade harvest every time a pub folds-
up, while there is less chance than ever
of the weary traveller getting a bed for
the night.
More, and not fewer, hotels are needed
in a growing community.—Quo Vadis
(Q-).
Warning Motorists
The ruling of Stipendiary Magistrate
Stonham, in an N.S.W. country court,
that a motorist who warns a fellow-
motorist of the presence of a traffic-
policeman is liable to be charged with
an offence seems a bit tough, but I sup-
pose there is something in it.
A citizen who gives an ordinary law-
breaker the tip that the police are just
around the corner deserves to be hauled
before the Beak and punished, but some-
how a speeding motorist seems to be in a
different category. In the first place, one
would have to know why he was speed-
ing. He might be showing-off a power-
ful car, or he might be racing for a
doctor ; he might be anxious to reach
the nearest pub before closing-time, or he
might be taking someone to hospital. A
motorist who exceeds the speed-limit is
technically liable, but an understanding
magistrate will generally consider the cir-
cumstances.
Broadly, the aim of our police-system
is to prevent people from breaking the
law, not allow them to do it and then
punish them. If I were exceeding the
speed-limit in a built-up area, with a
policeman trailing behind ready to pounce
on me the moment I had covered the
minimum distance to justify a booking,
the fellow-motorist who tipped me off
should get a road-safety award rather
than a fine. Had he merely grinned and
said to himself, “He deserves all he gets,”
my car could have got out of control,
I could have knocked down a pedestrian,
or I could merely have been ordered to
“Pull in, driver,” by a conscientious cop.
But because I get the right tip at the
right time, none of these things happens.
I receive a well-merited fright, reduce my
speed to the legal limit, smile at the frus-
trated cop in my rear-vision mirror and
release him to hot-foot it after some other
motorist who didn’t have the luck to be
tipped-off.
There’s a lot to be said on both sides;
Magistrate Stonham’s warning, while it
might be good law, doesn’t necessarily
make for camaraderie on the roads. —
Peter Simble (N.S.W.).
Women and the Land
I can add my experience regarding the
difficulties facing women who might wish
to be farmers in Australia,
My daughter, now 30, took her B.Sc.
in dairying at Reading University, Eng-
land, in 1945, along with the usual out-
put of 30-40 dairying-graduates, more
than half of whom were girls. Before
this she had taken her British Dairy
Farmers’ Certificate at our County Farm
Institute, and subsequently her National
Dairying Diploma as a post-graduate
degree, all of which entailed con-
siderable practical farming experience as
well as theoretical work,
She was immediately appointed senior
dairying-instructress at a County Farm
Institute, where she was responsible for
teaching men as well as women, and also
doing advisory work. A few years later
she became farm-manager on a first-class
dairy and arable farm, responsible for all
farm-work and in control of the labor
employed, which included several men,
as well as women, in the dairy-depart-
ment.
No one in England thought there was
anything unusual about this —the county
dairy advisory officers are practically
all women and hold a much-appreciated
place in the agricultural communities.
When I emigrated to Australia with the
rest of my family in 1951 I naturally
thought that, in a land of primary pro-
ducers, there would be ample opportunity
for my daughter in some branch of the
dairy-industry once she had become
accustomed to Australian agricultural
conditions. It seems, however, that there
are no openings whatever in that line for
a woman, and that “she would be better
to learn shorthand and typing and take a
job in the city.” Rather than do this she
has remained in England— Medico-
Agricola (W.A.).
National Debts
In comparing the New Zealand
national debt in 1912 (£lOO million) and
1928 (£328 million) “C.S.” (B. 15/2/’56)
forgot to mention the effect of World
War I. This caused national debts in all
the belligerent countries to soar.
The British national debt, for instance,
was £661,473,765 in 1913-14. In 1919 it
had mounted to £7OOO million.
Considering that factor, as well as the
decline in the value of money and the
increase in population, the rise in New
Zealand’s indebtedness wasn’t too bad at
all. — Ctjnedda (N.S.W.).
R. D. Meagher and the Dean Case
The “Service Department’s” account of
“R. D. Meagher and the Dean Case” (B.
22/2/’56) does a grave injustice to the
memory of the late Sir Julian Salomons.
It said that Meagher “confided to him
[Salomons] as a professional secret that
Dean after his trial had admitted his guilt
to him.”
There is not a word of truth in the
charge that Sir Julian had been guilty of
the very serious offence of the disclosure of
a confession made to him as Meagher’s
professional adviser. The facts were—
as described by Sir Julian in his speech
in the Legislative Council —that Meagher
was consulting him in his chambers as
counsel in a matter totally unconnected
with the Dean case. At the conclusion of
the conference Sir Julian asked Meagher
how his client Dean was getting on, and,
after Meagher had answered that ques-
tion, Sir Julian expressed his firm opinion
that Dean was a guilty man. Then
Meagher boasted that he knew that, and
that Dean had confided to him that he
was guilty.
This confession was made by Dean
after he had been convicted, and when
Meagher was agitating for a royal com-
mission to inquire into the justice of
Dean’s conviction and to secure the grant-
ing of a pardon. In promoting with
others this agitation for the granting of a
pardon to a man whom he knew was
guilty, Meagher was, of course, guilty of
a conspiracy to defeat the course of
justice.
At first Meagher denied the charge
against him made by Sir Julian, but
when, in reply to Meagher, Sir Julian re-
peated the charge in another speech in the
Legislative Council, Meagher, in a speech
made in the Legislative Assembly,
admitted the truth of what Sir Julian had
said, expressed his remorse for what he
had done, and declared his intention of
resigning from Parliament, leaving the
State and seeking to rehabilitate himself
in another country. This action is what
the “Service Department” describes as
“resigned when he became the centre of
the legal storm.”
Meagher’s contrition was not very long-
lived. He resigned his seat in Parliament,
but did not go abroad, and he subse-
quently re-entered Parliament. —R. Clive
Teece (N.S.W.). 7
Dr. Coombs
J. B. Chifley, an ardent advocate of
nationalisation of banking, was instru-
mental in promoting Dr. Coombs to the
governorship of the Commonwealth
Bank from another war-time department.
Does R. A. Cotton (B. 15/2/’56) think
for one moment that the late Prime Minis-
ter would have appointed anyone to this
vital post other than an adherent of his
own line of thinking?
Admittedly Dr. Coombs has retained
the position under Menzies, but Govern-
ments do not change public servants.
Finally, although the Federal Cabinet
may imagine it is directing the policy of
the central bank, the governor is
steering the course. Ministers must rely
on the second-in-command, and, in many
cases, have little knowledge of the sub-
ject.—C.B.M. (N.S.W.).
R. A. Cotton doesn’t tell the whole
story. Dr. Coombs acquired his
economics at the London School of
Economics and Political Science of Lon-
don University, where he studied under
some of the more radical professors who
later were in the British Labor Cabinet,
and where one of the chief lecturers was
Harold J. Laski, member of the execu-
tive committee of the Fabian Society and
chairman of its publishing committee.
The London School of Economics
(to use its short title), was founded in 1921
by the Fabian (Socialist) Society. Lord
Haldane, who persuaded Sir Ernest
Cassel, one of the world’s richest men,
to settle large sums on the school, stated:
“Our object is to make the institution a
place to raise and train the bureaucracy
of the future Socialist State.” The school
provides economists who become “ad-
visers” to Governments (of any com-
plexion) and banks, showing clearly that
no conflict of aim exists between Socialism
and orthodox financial practice. It would
be ludicrous to suppose that Sir Ernest
Cassel provided large sums in ignorance
of their objective.
Graduates of the school are convinced
Socialists, believing in State-ownership
and -control, and the methods used by
the founders of the school, the Fabian
(Socialist) Society, are best described in
the words of George Bernard Shaw, one
of its members: “Our propaganda is
chiefly one of permeating-*-we urged our
members (who are all Socialists) -to join
the Liberal and Radical associations in
their district, or even the Conservative
association —we permeated the party-
organisations and pulled all the wires we
could lay hands on with the utmost ad-
roitness and energy, and with great suc-i
cess . . . planting ideas that would never
have come into their heads had not the
Fabians put them there.”
Other graduates of the school, all
steeped in Socialist philosophy, become
writers, propagandists and press-corres-
pondents ; newspaper, Government and
other economists ; and university-lecturers
in economics anjl politics, etc. The line
they put out is lapped-up by ignorant and
uncritical electors, who don’t know that
they are being mentally conditioned with
the Socialist virus, because Socialism is
never mentioned. — C. H. C. (Vic.).


At what age should
lambs be marked and
tailed? There is a
wide divergence of
opinion on this matter
and thje recommended
age varies from one
week to three months.
The most reliable
authorities, however,
affirm that the
younger lambs are
marked the better
and that Elastrator
Rubber Rings should
be used.
LYSAQMTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm
m
sms,
-rnr-r.
* i
SB
;; m
*****&*?■>*.„»
, y
m
I
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd-
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTI NG, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
INVERLOCH EXPERIMENTS
REFERENCE having been
made by Mr. Schoeffel and
other contributors to the early
experiments carried out by Mr.
H. A. Pittman on my property at
Inverloch (Vic.), my own com-
ments may be of interest.
The experiments started
because we didn’t get results
from 16 tons of super, put out in
1940. We set out to find the
reason.
In about 1897, soil was taken
from a paddock on my father’s
place at Bacchus Marsh (Vic.)
and sent to India to be used when
sowing lucerne-seed: that fact
stuck in my mind.
In 1925, with the help of J. J.
Pascoe and the late H. A.
Alexander, of Commonwealth
Fertilisers’ field-advisory service,
we were establishing sub.-clover,
Wimmera-rye and phalaris at
Nerrimu, near Violet Town, and
in one paddock had no results.
Mr. Penhall, of the mer-
chandise-department of Golds-
brough Mort, Melbourne, told
me that he had a pamphlet
written by a Mr. H. A. Pittman,
of the W.A. Department of Agri-
culture, giving directions for
using cultures to inoculate seed
before planting. In 1933 the
Perth branch of Goldsbrough
Mort forwarded cultures which
we used, and from then on we
got results. Commonwealth
Fertilisers held two field-days on
my property, Merrimu, to
demonstrate these results.
After failure to establish pas-
tures at Inverloch, I got more
cultures from Western Australia,
but time-lag, and the fact that
nobody could tell me what the
effective life of a culture was,
upset my plans.
While awaiting delivery of
some culture from WA-, I went
to Burnley Gardens to see if
the Victorian Department of
Agriculture could supply cul-
tures. I interviewed Mr. Frank
Drake, of the agrostology-
branch, who sent me to see Mr.
Stan Fish, of the plant-research
laboratory, and there, with Mr.
Pittman (who had meantime
joined the Vic. Department of
Agriculture), we talked over a
plan.
I provided virgin ground, all
seed, manures, labor, fenced
plots and maintained plots. The
plant-research laboratory found
the cultures, and Mr. Pittman
came down and laid-out and
planted the plots. It was due to
Mr. Pittman’s knowledge of the
different things that could kill
the microbes in the cultures that
we got results.
For a start we had basic phos-
phate to sow with the seed, but
I hadn’t bought enough, so we
reverted our own super, with
slaked-lime: that was the start
of the various mixtures of lime
and super, which culminated in
the Pittman technique, and the
widely-used 50-50 lime-super,
mixture.
Tbe use of super, without lime
when sowing-down clover and
grass is a waste of seed, super,
and time.
Many farmers around here,
thanks to the Pittman technique,
are producing more annual
revenue than the original capital-
cost of their properties. Land
that was once considered worth-
less now carries good dairy-
herds, top-quality beef-cattle, fat-
lambs which bring good prices
at Newmarket, and it produces
good wool.
W. Harvie Anderson.
Lime-coated Clover-
seed
The “Man on the Land”
article by one of our leading
agronomists, E. J. Breakwell
(B. 1/2/’56), and his reference
to lime-pelleted clover-seed, has
prompted me to add a few words
concerning the use of lime in
establishing clover (particularly
subterranean-clover) on the
“problem” soils in the higher-
rainfall districts of New South
Wales.
As adviser to an agricultural-
seed company during the last
four years, I have had the oppor-
tunity of inspecting dozens of
pastures sown to sub.-clover, to
find that red-yellow seedlings
were predominant, indicating
that inoculation was ineffective
or that the rhizobium had
perished.
I am not conversant with the
early work of H. A. J. Pittman in
Victoria, but I have followed
with interest the more recent
C.5.1.R.0. experiments on the
N.S.W, southern tablelands.
Several years ago A. J. Anderson,
of C.5.1.R.0., established that
sub.-clover could only be grown
successfully at Grabben Gullen
(near Goulburn) by correcting a
threefold deficiency of phos-
phate, molybdenum and lime.
The practical result of this work
was that molybdenum-super-
phosphate was first broadcast or
drilled at l£-2cwt. per here, and
then inoculated seed was drilled-
in with 2cwt. carbonate-of-lime
per acre.
This method is expensive,
because two separate operations
are needed, and inefficient, be-
cause the molybdenum-super-
phosphate is not, in many cases,
sufficiently close to the develop-
ing sub.-clover seedlings. It is
obvious that the relatively small
amounts of lime (2cwt. per acre)
Inoculated and uninoculated Greenfeast peas, planted in
alternate rows, on Mr. Anderson’s property in 1941. Sixty
inoculated plants half-filled a chaff-bag; peas from sixty
uninoculated plants went into a foolscap envelope. A big
percentage of the plants in untreated rows died.
drilled-in with the seed would
not alter the soil-acidity, but
would only provide a suitable
alkaline environment in close
proximity to the seed, so that the
rhizobium could survive, and
hence form effective nodules.
It has been my opinion for
some time that only very small
amounts of lime would be
necessary with inoculated seed,
provided the lime is in intimate
contact with the inoculum. This
has now been 'confirmed by
Loneragan, Meyer, Fawcett and
Anderson, of the C.5.1.R.0.
Division of Plant Industry, Can-
berra. In tests on an acid-soil
(pH 5.2) at Rye Park, it was
found that by inoculating sub.-
clover by the wet “slurry”
method and then rolling the
damp seed in lime (51b. lime for
101 b. seed) 91 per cent, nodu-
lation was obtained. When the
seed was inoculated but not
rolled in lime the nodulation was
only 31 per cent.
These experiments were sown
by hand, and therefore the lime-
pellet” would not be sufficiently
stable to be used under normal
field-conditions when seed is
sown through drills, rotary-
broadcasters or from aircraft.
During the last two months
we have developed a reliable
method of lime-coating sub.-
clover seeds using calcium-
carbonate and a suitable ad-
hesive. Tests so far indicate that
germination is not adversely
affected, as the lime-coating
dissolves readily in moist soil.
The main problem, however,
appears to be whether the rhizo-
bium will survive inside the lime-
coating for a sufficient time to
make inoculated lime-coated seed
a practical proposition. We have
enlisted the aid of both Pro-
fessor J. M. Vincent, of the
University of Sydney, and
K. Marshall, Bacteriologist of
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, who are carrying out
“survival” tests of the rhizobium
inside the lime-coating.
We hope that these tests,
together with field-trials during
the coming autumn, will prove
that this method of establishing
clover is feasible. If the lime-
coating does protect the rhizo-
bium against either acid-super-
phosphate or acid-soil, then this
method should have a wide appli-
cation in establishing sub.-clover,
whether it is drilled on prepared
ground, sod-seeded into native-
pasture, or surface-broadcast
with superphosphate by rotary-
spreaders or from aircraft.
M. V. O’ Reilly.
Jerseys at Bega
At the first show staged by the
Bega Agricultural Society 99
years ago there were no Jersey
cattle. Chief interest centred in
the ploughing-matches, one of
which was won by Daniel Gow-
ing with a horse-drawn team,
and the other by Charles Mc-
Gregor, with bullocks. In 1956
the Jerseys at Bega were repre-
sentative of much of the real
wealth of this N.S.W. South
Coast area: in fact, with the
exception of a beef-section, no
other type of stock was exhibited.
Mark Eckerman, of Pella
stud, Eudunda (S.A.), who
judged the Jersey breed at the
R.A.S. last year, came to Bega
to judge at this year's show, and
expressed delight at the high
quality and keen competition.
The Bega A. P. H. Society will
only accept entries from regis-
tered Jersey stock and competi-
tion this year was strong, despite
the flooding prior to the show,
which prevented some breeders
from trucking-in their stock.
The champion-cow award —
always a distinction in this
butter-producing district was
won by Kameruka Estate with
Easter Bonnet’s Jessie (imp.),
which had been bought overseas
by A. Dowie, Kameruka Estate’s
former manager.
This cow, described by Mr.
Eckerman as having “tons of
capacity, brimful of quality, but
perhaps a little small,” is still
milking.
Parrabel stud, which is con-
ducted by father and son, R. and
C. C. Cochrane, at North Bega,
gained the prize for the reserve-
champion cow with Austral Park
Bright Cowslip; also, to the
same stud, champion heifer and
reserve-heifer.
O. Guthrey and Sons, of
Yarranung, Bega, took the award
for the champion bull, Glenavon
Silver Lock, a neat, loose, well-
grown animal, closely followed
by Kameruka’s Aristocrat’s
Loyalty, who gained the reserve-
ribbon.
The young bulls always attract
attention in this district. Junior
champion was Kameruka’s
Hopeful’s Courage, with H. I.
Salway and Sons’ Wilgo Design,
of Cobargo, reserve-champion.
The group of dairy-stock
showed the capacity of pedigree-
stock when working, because the
winning group were all milk-
ing. These were exhibited by
C. and N. C. Guthrey, of Elen-
grove, near Bega, and were sired
by Rockleigh Hallmark.
The dry-cow class, over four-
years, attracted 19 entries, and
the judge paid tribute to their
quality by bringing most of them
into the centre of the ring. C. A.
Taylor’s Gailee Masterpieces
Gwendoline took the award,
with C. C. Cochrane’s Parrabel
Royal Lady in second place. The
judge said they were all “a jolly
fine lot of cows.”
To encourage the new breeders
—competition is very strong
among the established ones —a
special prize was offered for a
bull bred within the Bega police-
district. Thisjwas won by W. T.
O’Brien’s Kenilworth Golden
Oxford, the strain being that
of the late Ken Taylor’s Kenil-
worth stud at Tanja.
The installation of a public-
address system was an innova-
tion for Bega, and a good one.
A. MacGregor.
1867 Plough
“Theo”: On “Aboriginalities”
(B. 8/2/’56) “Torwood” quoted
from a report of the National
Agricultural Show, in 1867, list-
ing parts of a plough, and asked
for an explanation. At that time
the proportion of completely
cleared land in the coastal-belt
was very small, and a wheel on
a plough would have been voted
an encumbrance.
In the settled districts, many
blacksmiths, of whom there was
then one to every four or five
miles, had developed an almost
uncanny skill in making a plough
that would hold its width and
depth of furrow almost auto-
matically.
The ploughman adjusted the
“bridle” at the traction-end of
the plough for the desired width
and depth of furrow, and, with
a good pair of horses and
properly cleared land, the rest,
to a good ploughman, was just
“playwork.”
When the rain-forest was
felled and burnt-off the logs and
stumps remained. The logs were
heaped and burnt. The hard-
wood stumps were left to be
burnt-out in later years when the
sap had dried-out. The brush-
wood stumps, once dead, decayed
more quickly and could then be


CATTLE
TROUGHING
$
SEPTIC TANKS
&
WELL
LININGS
o
CONCRETE
PIPES
Quality counts; that's why you should always specify
HUME Cattle Troughing, Septic Tanks, Well Linings or
Reinforced Concrete Pipes. Hume Cattle Troughing is fire-
proof and rustproof, easy to erect and of'sturdy construction.
Hume Septic Tanks have proved an outstanding success
throughout Australia. Hume Well Linings give you water
all the year round for domestic use, watering of stock and
irrigation. Hume Reinforced Concrete Pipes are ideal for
stormwater drainage culverts, water supply and sewerage.
HUMES LIMITED
(operating throughout Australia)
N.S.W. OFFICE; 43 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
PHONE 8X4165. G.P.O. BOX 3516.
FACTORIES: ADAMSTOWN, GRAFTON, HARDEN, LISMORE,
QUEANBEYAN, RYDALMERE, TAMWORTH.
"The FARMERS' BOY"
“SERIES II” or “MAJOR”
Ploughs, Scythes, Mows, Cul-
tivates, Sprays, Hoes, etc.
The attach-
me n t illus-
trated is the
world-
famous
“FARMERS’
BOY”
ROTARY SCYTHE
Write or telephone your nearest State
Distributor for free particulars and
for free demonstration of the attach-
ments that interest you:
N.S.W. : Grazcos Co-operative Ltd.,
46 Young St., Sydney. BUI6II.
VIC.: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90
William St., Melbourne. MU 8661.
S. AUS.: M. S. McLEOD Ltd., 176-
180 Pulteney St., Adelaide. W 1561.
Q’LAND : Buzacott’s (Q’land) Ltd.,
443 Adelaide St., Brisbane. FA 2681.
TAS.: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd.,
116 York St., Launceston. W. AUS.:
Western Machinery Co. Pty. Ltd., 494
Murray St., Perth. BA 2496.
Sole Australian Agents:
Hubert Stokes & Co. Pty., Ltd.
74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Best
Mineral
Supplement
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
r
OS
fcM-
-I*'
E*L*t» sto
too*
doh*
C *\C'C
4
’Dlc€a£(h.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRLCALCIC PHOSPHATE
Amy particulars gladly supplied l
Writ, (o DAVIS GELATINE: G.PO B« 3583.
SYONEY • G:P.O 80. 4058, MELBOURNE • G.P.O.
N2E. ADELAIDE • G.P.O. Bo« 758 K, BRISBANE
• G.P.O Bo> 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
'PHENOVIS'—Brand of PhenotMasJno
Wouldn’t YOU
Spend
Fivepence
PHENOVIS
n
5
O
m
%
or MORE WOOL/
Yes, you've probably paid less but 'Phenovis' Drench,
costing about sd. per sheep per drench (that's only
1/3 a year!) KEEPS THE WORM BURDEN IN SHEEP
TO AN ABSOLUTE MINIMUM.
'Phenovis' is the most effective drench ever used by
Australian Graziers . . . therefore it pays you to us«
the BESTI
‘ PHENOVIS ’ IS EFFECTIVE BECAUSE:
1. It is made from extremely fine ground
Phenothiazine.
2. It effectively controls the major
intestinal worms found in sheep.
3. Worm free sheep produce 25%
more wool than worm infested sheep.
4. Helps sheep resist reirtfes-
tation.
5. Helps keep pastures con-
tamination free.
Insist upon
the SUPERFINE quality
'PHENOVIS'
LIQUID OR POWDER
ORDER now from your Supplier
i DEPEBDJBLEJKIMjL
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
c
PHE.46X.2999
.PjLOTECTIIML PBODfICT
' OFAUSTRAUA~&~NEW ZeIIANiT ITo.
ploughed-out. Those that per-
sisted in staying green had to be
grubbed. Naturally, the first few
years of cultivation amounted to
little more than “tickling,” and
bullocks, being more steady than
horses, were preferred for trac-
tion.
This is where the “soleplate”
came in specially useful. It was a
piece of steel bolted to the in-
side of the land-side near the
heel-end, and its purpose was
to increase bearing-area on the
bottom of the furrow. It was the
chief fulcrum-point in the work.
When a root or small stump
stayed progress the conveniently
long handles were used to judge
whether the obstacle could be
tom out.
About the beginning of this
present century it was noticed
that the great weight exerted on
the sole of the plough caused a
hard-pan in the subsoil, and the
plough as we now know it,
miming on wheels, was evolved.
Silage
“Silo”: Silage is the cheapest
form of stored fodder. Less
material is lost in making silage
than in making hay, and well-
stored silage does not spoil in
storage.
Silage requires only one-third
of the storage needed for hay.
Where the fodder is needed as
long-term protection against
drought, weatherproof storage is
essential. Tower-, trench- and
circular-pit-type silos give great-
est protection.
The advantages of the tower-
and circular-pit-types are well
known, but for ease and
economy of' construction the
trench-type silo has much to
commend it. Usually it can be
built with equipment already on
the farm. Trenches are from
3-Bft. deep. Spoil from the
trench may be used to build-up
the sides above the ground, and,
of course, protection from sur-
face moisture must be provided.
For long-term fodder it is best
to ensile heavy-yielding crops,
such as maize, sweet-sorghum,
or Sudan-grass, rather than
pasture.
Peaches
“Wewack”: Peach-growers at
Tatura (Vic.) Research Station’s
field-day were told that the most
profitable fertiliser for irrigated
peaches in Goulburn Valley was
31b. of sulphate-of-ammonia plus
41b. of super, per tree in the
spring, then another 31b. of sul-
phate-of-ammonia in mid-
January and super, with the
cover-crop.
Six pounds of sulphate-of-
ammonia in one spring-dressing
produces less fruit and more
rejects than the split spring-
autumn dressing. “Leave out
potash and make money by
saving it.”
So far, straw-mulch is .by far
the best soil-management treat-
ment. It costs about £45 an acre
to maintain each year, but
produces about 3| tons more
canning-fruit an acre more than
the normal treatment. Net ad-
vantage is about £loo' an acre.
Correct timing'of irrigations,
according to fruit-measurement,
is a very practical way of increas-
ing yields.
Dogwood
“W.C.Q.”: The dogwood, or
turkey-bush, common in western
Queensland, and occurring occa-
sionally in coastal districts, is a
proved poisoner of * sheep and
cattle. Likely to grow near ring-
barked box- or brigalow-forests
it’s a shrub up to Bft. high with
narrow leaves and white “bell”
flowers.
Causes little harm to stock on
good grass, but deaths are fre-
quent among hungry, travelling
stock. First signs are usually
drowsiness, “falling asleep on the
march,” and clumsy movements.
Then the animals go down, with
difficult breathing and muscular
twitching, and death comes
within 24 hours.
There’s no cure, so hungry
stock should be driven fast
through infested areas and never
camped in such places.
Faijm Hints
“Insol”: If you occasionally
buy pigs at saleyards, don’t make
the mistake of immediately
placing them in the paddock
with your own pigs. An isolation-
pen isn’t hard to make, and can
save a lot of trouble. Keep new
pigs in it for three weeks, to see
if any disease is going to develop,
before letting them run with
the others. An isolation-pen is
also handy if there is an out-
break of disease among the old
inhabitants. In either case, don't -
neglect slight symptoms.
“Big Billy”: Paddocks in
which underground grass-cater-
pillars are suspected should be
closely examined by walking
across and sampling with a
spade, at intervals, to a depth
of 2in. If four to six larvae per
squarerfoot are found the area
should be treated before the
end of March with 12oz. D.D.T.
(mixed with superphosphate) per
acre.
“C.A.A.”: S.A. tests show that
gammexane (8.H.C.) has proved
most effective in controlling flies
breeding in waste-disposal areas.
Gammexane was used at the rate
of loz. for every 12 square-
yards, or 251 b. per acre, with a
commercial duster to spread the
powder.
“P.S.” (Canada): Trials here
have shown that clover-seed pro-
duction can be increased by as
much as 300 per cent, by
systematic use of domestic bees.
It is estimated that there should
be two colonies of bees to each
acre of clover. And, of course,
if bees are thus used to any
extent there should be a marked
increase in honey-production.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/2/’56)
. The particularly high sunspot-activity has intensified
rains considerably in NJS.W. and Queensland. This is not
surprising, as the sunspot outbreaks are possibly the largest
ever observed.
consequence, further heavy rains and floods may
occur in Queensland and N.S.W. during the first half of
March.
The southern half of Victoria should receive moderate
rains during March, but the Mallee, Wimmera and north-
country area should get only light rain, with no general
rams likely until May.
Some light to moderate rains should be experienced in
South Australia during March, although portion of the east-
central and upper-south-east may receive moderate rains
above average.
Western Australia should receive g'ood rains above
normal in the East Kimberleys, and these rains should extend
southward to the goldfields area and down the south coast
during March.
LENNOX WALKER.


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
SYDNEY
Advance booking essential.
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
trees over there. You know
they’re there. Can’t get at
them, though. Need a
helicopter.”
Tony is right. Helicopters
seem the only answer to some
of the problems of modernising
the industry. The clumps and
coppices of oil-bearing trees are
mostly insufficient to keep even
a small plant permanently in
operation in the one spot. That
is why a still is limited in size
to the square drum already
mentioned. When a growth of
trees is temporarily exhausted —•
had all its leaves cut and cooked
—the operators can pile them-
selves and their still on a lorry
and move on to a coppice which
has had the requisite three- or
four-years’ rest and is again
ready to be harvested.
Either air-transport or cen-
tralised eucalypt - plantations
would make it possible to
replace the primitive stills with
a more modern, though less
portable, steam factory. How-
ever, current helicopter-rates
make this part of the solution
unlikely for the present.
Transport of leaves for other
than the shortest of hauls is
very uneconomical indeed.
“These two chaps we’re visit-
ing,” said Tony, “have a lorry
to cart their loads of leaves
down to the still. Some of them
keep to the old horse-and-cart.”
Why can’t the still be set up
right beside the eucalypts to be
cut? Because a still needs
running-water to condense its
vapors. Most of the oil-bearing
trees are found on dry, other-
wise barren, hilltops, where
running-water, to put it mildly,
is somewhat scarce.
Accordingly, it was at the
bottom of a gully that we found
our men. Though the gully was
a small one, its sides put on a
very good imitation of a cliff,
and 1 tottered down like an
arthritic dowager. For I was
nursing about £lOO of borrowed
camera.
Since the names of the two
men who operate this still are
too intricately European for
journalistic comfort, we’ll call
them Tom and Harry.
They were trampling about on
top of their still when we
arrived. It had just been loaded
with a charge of leaves, and, to
get the most from each firing,
you always cram the leaves
down to squeeze a few more in.
Prancing away there in the sun-
light, they looked like an
athletic version of those girls
you hear about who tread
grapes in Spain.
Introductions over, they
resumed their dance atop the
still, and I tried to photograph
it. I can only assure you it
would have made an excellent
picture. Thanks to the camera’s
expensive complexity the nega-
tive turned out more than
usually negative.
Next, on with the lid.
Naturally, the whole show must
be air-, gas- and steam-tight. To
this end, the join round the lid
is sealed with a handy com-
modity—mud.
Even in the diamond-glitter of
the morning sunlight, the
furnace beneath the still glared
red and white. Working this
vegetarian Moloch seemed a
pleasant way to earn fifty-notes
a week. But, of course, you
never see the drawbacks in
somebody else’s line of work.
It is very important that the
still should have some water in
it as well as , leaves. I learnt
later from Mr. Arthur Webb —;
Bedwell’s local representative —
that, despite its cost of £l2O, a
still’s average life is only about
three years.
“Why?”
“The water in the district is
often hard, corrodes the metal.
Some elements in the eucalyptus-
vapor are pretty fierce, too. But
the main reason is the men’s
forgetting to put water in the ;
bottom of their stills.”
“You mean they burn them
out just like a housewife might
a saucepan?”
“That’s right.”
Tom and Harry, however, had
everything going in apple-pie
order. In a surprisingly short
time Harry went and felt the
pipes which plunge from the top
of the still into the neighboring
brook. He nodded. They were
getting hot.
The pipe travels about 50ft.
under water. In this hilly country
Nature seldom provides enough
water to cover 60ft. o pipe. In
many cases, therefore, the
brooks have to be dammed
every 6ft. or so. The result
looks a bit like a model of the
Panama Canal, with the vapor-
pipe piercing the “locks” at
intervals.
Sometimes a deluge turns the
upland trickles into torrents.
Away go the dams. And, some-
times, away go pipe, still and
shack as well. Since the nature
of a still demands that it always
be set-up near a watercourse,
this is another reason for its
abbreviated life-expectancy.
The pipe finally empties into
a barrel almost sunk in the
ground: the still was now boil-
ing, and a trickle already begin-
ning to run from the pipe’s
mouth.
Since the still contains both
water and eucalyptus-leaves, both
ordinary steam and eucalyptus-
vapor come down through the
pipe. Both are condensed into
a liquid as the pipe passes
through its 60ft. of brook. And
it is, of course, essential to
separate them when they
emerge, water being unsaleable.
The separation is done very
simply. As the mixed liquid
trickles into the barrel the water
sinks to the bottom. The oil
behaves as oil is traditionally
supposed to do —floats on top.
A pipe from the bottom of the
barrel siphons-off excess water.
At another still I looked at
later this pipe was found to be
blocked. Had we not gone to
examine it when we did, valu-
able oil would have overflowed
the barrel’s rim, floated away
with the creek.
“It’ll be a frog, that’s what
it’ll be. They get in there and
block it up,” said one man.
A frog would, of course, find
it difficult to sabotage operations
by entering the overflow-pipe
via the still and its boiling
vapors; it would have to hop
into the pipe at the lower end.
Moreover, the whole caboose
emits a most threatening odor
of eucalyptus, which would
surely warn-off anything that
could smell it —maybe frogs are
deficient in this department.
Certainly on that occasion no
frog was found. I pursued the
possibility later, at head-office.
It was voted “Not exactly
impossible.”
Another cause of oil-loss,
however, is more frequent, and
doesn’t stretch the bounds of
possibility at all:
“They just go away and forget
it. It runs away.”
Harry, who doesn’t look the
sort to let good oil go to waste,
showed, me how at intervals he
bails it from the top of the
barrel. Just like skimming
cream from a milk-jug.
Whatever tradition says about
the matter, not every kind of
oil so obligingly floats on water.
Tea-tree oil (the firm spells it
“tee-tree”) is distilled by a
similar process to eucalyptus, but
it’s trickier to collect the dis-
tillate. Tea-tree’s essential oil is
“Those horror-‘Comics are having a terrible effect on Mum and Dad."
heavier than eucalyptus; but,
though too heavy to float on
water, it’s not quite heavy
enough to sink with decision to
the bottom. Oil and water have
to be sorted out.
In the eucalyptus-distilling a
black mass of charred leaves
remains in the still at the end
of the operation, and getting
them out is just as nasty a job
as you’d come across. To help
with this, they sometimes rig-up
a small derrick. A sheet of
chicken-wire goes under the
leaves when they first go into
the still. Later, you just turn a
winch, and up they come.
We all climbed into the truck
and started up the melon-shaped
hills to have a look at the area
from which Tom and Harry cut
their leaves. On the way, Tony
told me how not all operators
got on as well together as did
Tom and Harry. Months of
isolation, coupled with broken
nights to tend the still, can play
the dickens with men’s nerves.
Not so long before I went
down that way the lonely life
had affected two operators’
nerves so badly that one of
them murdered the other.
Man-and-wife teams are not
uncommon. One such couple
hailed from somewhere in
Europe, where they had evi-
dently been used to a somewhat
more urban milieu. Still, they
lived in the usual rudimentary
shack. But once a week they’d
come into Braidwood to sell
their oil, he looking every inch
a diplomat and she a diplomat’s
wife.
There are some freelance
eucalyptus-operators who buy
their own stills and equipment,
go into the hills and, as it were,
prospect for their own oil-
bearing trees.' The firms that
buy their oil are only too glad
to be relieved of the trouble
and expense of doing this for
them. Hence, freelance-
distillers (to coin a pleasantly
suggestive term) both ask and
get a few pence a pound extra
for their oil. Every week or so
they come in from the outlying
hills, trot round town seeing
representatives of the various
oil-firms, then sell to the highest
bidder.
When oil is selling well there
is certainly money to be made
by a hard worker. Later that
day we visited two distillers,
outside whose grey shanty there
glittered like jewels two spank-
ing new cars. Both owners were
single, and such good friends
they usually went visiting
together. But they wouldn’t
dream of piling into the same
car. No, pride of possession
must be satisfied, the world
given tangible proof of what
they had earned by their sweat
in the bush. So they would drive
along in procession, each man
behind the wheel of his own
car . . .
We arrived at the coppice;
having always been pretty hazy
on the word’s meaning myself,
perhaps I’d better amplify it. It
is the group of stumps left from
the first cutting-down of the oil-
bearing trees. Fortunately the
eucalypt is a tree that is, to
quote one authority, “very
tenacious of life.” The stumps
quickly grow shoots and leaves,
and it is these which are called
coppice-growth.
It takes from three to four
years for this coppice-growth to
be ready to face-up to another
pruning. However, from the
industry’s point of view, the re-
growth has several advantages
over the original growth. The
first one is obvious: foliage
growing on stumps is a jolly
sight easier to get at and harvest
than was that on the original
trees. The second advantage is
that, for some inscrutable reason,
the regrowth is also richer in
oil.
If you hold a leaf of an oil-
bearing tree up to the light you
can see the little glands which
contain the oil. I tasted one,
and was more than ever inclined
to disbelieve the tale about the
chap who lived on gumtips and
snow.
The trees Tom and Harry
were working on go by the
Biblical name of Eucalyptus
dives, from which comes an oil
called piperitone. The tree has
a more-down-to-earth name:
broadleaf peppermint. None-
theless it is a member of the
eucalyptus clan.
Until about three years ago
piperitone was extensively used
in the separation of metallic
sulphides—whatever that means,
Anyhow, whatever this process
may be, it is now performed by
some newer, and presumably
more efficient, means,
lienee, it looked for a while
as if piperitone would be out
of one of its main jobs. Fortun-
ately, industrial revolutions have
a knack of opening one door as
they close another, and about
this time an Australian firm took
out a patent on a way to
crystallise top-quality menthol
from piperitone. This process
keeps Eucalyptus dives sprouting
leaves just as fast as it can.
Another important class of
eucalyptus-oil is called cineole;
it’s popular with soap-makers,
It is, in 1 act, a paragon among
soap-ingiedients, because it
performs a double-function'
offers both scent and service.
Cineole is a natural solvent,
making short work of grease,
and while going about this job
it emits an aroma of quite
singular virtue. It not only
cleans; it smells clean.
The coppices of oil-bearing
eucalypts could be enlarged,
and at the rate the world is
using their oils they will prob-
ably soon have to be. Some
enlargement could be achieved
merely by killing the non-oil-
bearing gums that surround the
coppices.
The leaves are harvested or
chopped with murderous knives.
And the knives also come in
handy to chop-up passing
snakes. Snake-bite is the chief
occupational hazard.
The chief nuisance is wind.
You just can’t handle this kind
of raw material in a strong wind-
But it’s all right to leave a pile
of cut branches in the open for
a while. For the leaves do not
lightly relinquish their oil-
content ; it takes a furnace to
make them.
A reason why the industry
remains undeveloped is the
threat of competition frorn
cheap-labor countries— especially
Spain and Portugal. How did
Spain get her eucalyptus-trees.
The same way we got our
Merino sheep. She sells her
eucalyptus all over the world,
but has not yet succeeded m
selling any to us.


sm tm Men aai* m m n Df-i mcrrt
PHARAOH TO FAROUK
by H. Wood Jarvis. In a most graphic
style, Mr. Wood Jarvis has related the
history of Egypt from 3000 B.C. to the
present day. His book has the quality
of a pageant, and important personali-
ties come vividly to life. No reader can
fail to be interested in and entertained
by history so expertly presented
34/9 (post 1/1).
THE EDGE OF THE SEA
by Rachel Carson. Written by the
author of The Sea Around Us, this book
is a fascinating study of the creatures
that live near the coastline and are
shaped by and depend upon the tides,
waves and ocean currents. The book
is beautifully illustrated by Robert W.
Hines. 22/6 (P° st 1/1) '
You’ll find these, and all the books you want at . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. : : 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
A GREAT NEW NOVEL BY
HOWARD SPRING
“These Lovers Fled Away’
Available from all booksellers
18s. 9d.
COLLINS
PUBLISHERS
authors, of stupidity or neglect of
revisions, being found invariably to
be reversible.
Miss Moore is obviously making too
much use of the prefix “un” in her
effort to be unununusual, but there can
be no doubt that her writing, in spite
of its awkwardness and impenetra-
bility, is shrewd, tough and original:
in a word, nutty.
Randall Jarrell
Australian readers should be grate-
ful for at least one kindly mention in
Randall Jarrell’s Selected Poems
(Faber); —
Woe’s me! woe’s me! In Folly’s
mailbox
Still laughs the postcard, Hope:
Your uncle in Australia
Has died and you are Pope.
For many a soul has entertained
A Mailman unawares —
And as you cry, Impossible,
A step is on the stairs.
And, if the book is seldom in so light
a vein, but for the most part sings,
more-or-less in Auden’s manner, the
swan-song of Europe, there is still much
to be grateful for: for, though too much
of it is on the one note of disillusion
and despair, Mr. Jarrell writes with
intimate knowledge of European cul-
ture and deep feeling for humanity.
His epigrams have stinging force: —
There set out, slowly, for a Different
World,
At four, on winter mornings, different
legs ...
“You can’t break eggs without
making an omelette”
—That’s what they tell the eggs.
and his longer poems, sometimes rather
loose, have grace and imagination —as
in his elegy for Robinson Crusoe, for
example:—
“So, so. The years ticked past like
crabs
Or an hour inched out to heaven,
like the sea.
One day, by my black hand, my
beard
Shone silver; I looked in astonish-
ment
And pinched my lean calves, drawn
with many scars,
“With my stiff fingers, till the parrot
called
In my grum quavering voice: ‘Poor
Robinson! ’
My herd came bleating, licked my
salty cheeks ;
I sobbed, and petted with a kind of
love
These joys of mine—the old, half-
human loves
“That had comforted my absent
life . . .
I have dreamed of men, and I am
old.
There is no Europe.” The man,
the goats, the parrot
Wait in their grove for death; and
there floods to them
In its last thundering spray, the sea,
the sea!
It is not the sort of poetry to fill one
with delight; as Yeats said, once and
for all, passive suffering is not a subject
for poetry. But, with some remark-
ably realistic poems of World War II
and a few American pieces as well as
the general picture of civilised, historic
Europe falling into decay and brutality,
it is excellent of its kind.
Reviewed Briefly
The Pawns of Fear: Jason Manor
(Seeker and Warburg). A private-eye
on a seaside holiday seeks to free a
rich widow and her stepchildren from
$. bad American broadcaster who has
the widow in his clutches. The scene
broadens as the broadcaster is found
to be the head of a Fascist organisa-
tion appealing to the rich, but in fact
the tool of the most unlikely foreign
Power. The poor little rich girl and
boy with the motor-cars and swimming-
pools and free-and-easy manners, and
the vicious broadcaster and his silly
drunken widow are rather well handled,
and except for the hysterical scream
of American democracy justifying
itself at the end it is a much-better-
than-usual thriller.
* * =N *
Ancient American Pottery: G. H. S.
Bushnell and Adrian Digby (Faber),
This beautiful book, illustrated in
color and black-and-white, with
informative introduction and com-
mentary, is the first volume to cover
the whole field of ancient American
pottery in Mexico, Peru and the south-
western United States. For the expert
it will be indispensable; while the lay-
man with any interest in pottery—or
indeed in art generally—-cannot fail
to be fascinated by the reproductions,
whether of the typically bold and vivid
decorative style or the sometimes
grotesque and sometimes charming
vases and drinking-vessels made in the
forms of frogs, dogs, fish, birds and
corn-cobs.
* * * *
The Wreck of the Golden Mary:
Charles Dickens and Wilkie Collins
(Arthur Barker). With an introduc-
tion by Herbert van Thai, this is one
of the novelettes which Dickens and
Collins wrote for the Christmas
numbers of “Household Words.” It is
a story of the survivors of a shipwreck
perishing one by one in their open
lifeboats, much enlivened by the prattle
of a kind of seafaring Little Nell, a
golden-haired child who is, of course,
doomed from the moment she sets
foot in these excessively Victorian
pages. Even as a curiosity it is, in
every possible sense of the term,
woeful.
* * * *
The Vicarious Years: John van
Druten (Heinemann). With the same
light-handed, almost airy technique
which has brought him so much suc-
cess as a playwright, John van Druten
makes his short novel an interesting
study of a young man’s absorption in
the lives of other people. The setting
is middle-class London just after the
First World War, and though the story
that unfolds is ordinary enough, the
reader, seeing it through the eyes of
the adolescent, is led to share his
interest and even excitement. In the
lives of most people there is a portion
which, as the author says, “seems to
have been lived almost at second-
hand.” Sometimes it leads to emotional
maturity, as in this story, sometimes
it continues through a lifetime. It has
received little attention from writers,
and “The Vicarious Years,” though
slight, is a book well worth reading for
this reason. * * m
A History of Golf: Robert Browning
(Dent). With eight plates in color and
more black-and-white plates, it begins
T^^/rSlald th fn L , 0 5 02 H b?t
SS r^°La S ;°Sv d e X
forbidden in 1456 to be played in
churches or churchyards; there are
references to a game called Chole as
far back as 1353, in whi s
teed, as is shown by a pain g s
being played m Rome, painted in 1624.
No matter what was responsible, it is
amazing how many paintings and
photographs of apparently respectable
people playing golf can be dug-up
down the centuries. Something ot
what golf means to golfers may be
gathered from the 1 Chronological
Table of Leading Events m the
appendix:
1502: James IV buys golf-dubs
and balls from the bow-maker of St.
Johnstoun (he., Perth).
1503: “The Marriage of the
Thistle and the Rose J af P es IV
and Margaret Tudor, daughter or
Henry VII of England, celebrated at
1504: fames IV goes to golf with
the Earl of Bothwell.
1513: Battle of Flodden and death
of James IV.
* * * *
The Inheritors: William Golding
(Faber). What a pity that C. J. Dennis
appropriated the only title for this
opus—“ The Glugs of Gosh” would
have been perfect. Not that the books
bear any resemblance to each other,
Golding’s novel is all about Ha, Fa,
Lok, Mai, Nil, Liku and such—
Neanderthal men, women and children,
who come in contact with Homo
Sapiens (of a very primitive and com-
parative sapience, of course) and, not
surprisingly, come off worst. To this
reader it all seems very pointless, and
the difficulty of working out which of
the Glugs is which, and of what sex, is
not compensated for by any revelations
historic, prehistoric, archaeological or
imaginative.
Batsman’s Paradise: Ronald Mason
(Hollis and Carter). The modern
psychological-novel brought to cricket-
hterature The author, neither a welh
and L'wStes
pleasant on the village-
™ ■ bu( Xrwise is rather hea B
Mos( q( his herQes belong well
an( j are remote f ro m the
(a u b limited audience in
/VUJ> * * * *
qqjg third volume of L. S. Amery’s
M Political Life, 1929-40, sub-titled
« The Unforgiving Years” (Hutchin-
sor A covers the period of the depres-
s[onj the formation of the MacDonald-
Baldwin Government, the muddling
p er j od 0 f semi-sanctions which tossed
an unwilling Mussolini into Hitler’s
all-too-willing arms, and the tragic
hesitations and delays and fumblings
which led the world into war in 1939.
T h e story is carried to the fall of the
Chamberlain Government, about which
a inside history—seen from
Amery > s point of v iew—is revealed.. It
is the Product of d-
endowed with perception and humor
but equally with the personal prejudices
ol one involved in the events which he
describes—Amery himself had a part
in the destruction of Chamberlain and
the installation of the Churchill
Government, in which he became
Secretary for India and Burma. His
book naturally does not place m corn-
plete perspective the part in pioducing
the muddle of the 1930’s played by
the Eden-Amery group, so full of
excellent visions and lack of confidence
in nearly everybody but themselves,
but it presents one main version and
is calculated to provide interesting
reading when taken in parallel with,
say, Sir Samuel Hoare’s (Lord Temple-
wood’s) account of the history of the
same period.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 372
Across
I— Sent about those gloved in
baseball style. (8)
4—Fool creation of the Mad Hatter?
(6)
9 Custom makes you wise. (5)
10— Flutter convulsions about 50. (4)
11— Tree Queen in the rank. (4)
13 — An inquiry about your existence
on gallery walls? (3)
14— Weary tree blushing. (5)
15— Harrowed the profligate coppers.
(5)
16— Plonk town on N.S.W.’s south
coast introduces the Hiroshima
demolisher with love. (5)
17 — A spectacular show-off which
restricts growth. (7)
19 — Three-note melody suggests
where the miner’s light goes out
because Robin is after a bee.
„ 0,3)
20— The Latin and here from the
same source with regard to
morality and duty. (5)
24 Smashed jar in a dark bat. (5)
25 The half-thousand’s after the
general city in Yorkshire. (5)
26 Of the French duck twosome.
27 The girl is Mrs. Jolson? (4)
28— Sink into printing materials. (4)
29—Documents left by the dead
explorer. (5)
31 — Missing seaman despatched here.
(6)
32 Take part in a game against one
who doesn’t come as a theatre
supporter. (8)
Down
1 — Ben confused the point of a
fish-hook vegetable fancied as a
dessert. (7)
2 Greenwich has this period
between one event and some
other one. (8)
3 Article at the Latin ego with a
craze of an extreme type of 32-
across. (12)
5 Article’s ancient Roman weight
is like Anglo-Saxon. (2)
6 Who joins together the century
trimmer? (7)
7_Good round publicity on the
beef saying with a contradiction
in it. (7) .
B —Deer coins for an American
behind I, N, H, and D. (12)
jo—Fish accompanies Jolson to the
wood when getting in first. (12)
j 2— Systematically wastes the order
of a breakfaster who refuses to
accept pancakes? (8,4)
18 —This suggests a pub-crawl by a
Hutton. (7)
21— Spanish grandee concealed Jolson
on leave. (7)
22 — Angrier traverser. (7)
23 — No gems for sprites. (6)
30 —The punter who has placed his
bet regards himself as being this
location of a body line field. (2)
Solution to Crossword No. 371


FARMERS! GRAZIERS! DAIRY FARMERS!
•. %>>
m: ■■
mm
' ?
m
mm
Si
m i ii#i
,<- -
H
*
“ >*.
mmm
>•••
• v
■* *
■
lHiaiim..
mmm
#om
mm
* .<>
€
Illustrated is the Graham
“J” 10-ft. Spring Clamp
Trailing Plow—plowing at
5 in. depth with Heel Sweeps
attached.
for rapid moisture penetration
for maximum absorption of every
downpour
—for u deeper feeding area for plant roots
On flat, undulating, rough, rocky or stump country
-the Graham does a stupendous job
★ Builds a mulch into the soil.
Ar Doubles the subsoil moisture.
★ Quickly builds soil fertility.
★ Shatters the hard pan.
★ Conserves soil moisture.
Ar Prevents erosion by water and wind.
★ Gives a perfect seed bed easier, quicker.
★ Cultivates from 2 incites to more than 16 inches.
★ Cultivates rough country that no other implement will
stand.
★ Produces a better pasture-better crop yields.
A demonstration will prove the
Graham miles ahead in Perfor-
mance, Durability and Results.
Contact the local Graham Plow agent in
your district. Arrange a demonstration
of a Graham Plow behind your own
tractor —on your own land.
LAND MEN NOTE!
Whether your property is located in the
dry western areas or in the moist coastal
belt, we can advise you how to specifi-
cally cultivate your soil and produce
better pastures and crops. Write us
immediately. Or just fill in the coupon
below and send to us for full particulars
of the Graham Plow.
Illustrated is the Model “E” 7-ft. Spring Clamp GRAHAM
PLOW with Depth Control Wheels, which sells at £lB5. It
is available with long or standard shanks. Row spacings are
adjustable. Width may be increased to 9 ft.
Two types of Depth Control Wheels may be used. Indi-
vidually Adjustable Depth Control Wheels (£27/10/- extra),
or Standard Depth Control Wheels (£4O extra). Available
in 5 ft., 7 ft. and 9 ft.
GRAHAM PIOW
The original and genuine chisel plow is patented throughout the world ana
manufactured in Australia under licence from the G raham-Hoeme Plow Co.,
AmariNo, Texas, U.5.A., by
YEOMANS PROPRIETARY
LIMITED
537 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
MX 1784, MX 1884
GRAHAM PLOW- IMPROVES THE SOIL!
NAME
ADDRESS
(State make and model of your tractor)
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
