

1
m
Send a gift of wine to your friends, relatives or business
associates in Britain, for birthdays, weddings, anni-
versaries and all celebrations. From stocks in their
London cellars, the House of Seppelt can arrange im-
mediate deliveries of their products to any address in
Great Britain. Xour nearest office of B. Seppelt & Sons
Ltd. will supply details of this service. Orders for
delivery in Great Britain before Christmas must be
placed before 16th November.
Full Details from
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P.O.
BR?SBANE B °BnJ r, ME ™? URNE: Box 233 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE. Box 352 E G.P O. FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
q „ C SY STAL ST - BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST., LONDON, E.C.4.
The Bulletin
CANDIDATE FOR POLITICAL HONORS — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4003
Wednesday, October 31, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 322: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
STAPLEFORD PARK, CENTURIES-OLD ENGLISH MANSION
ONEo0 NEo [ the mansions in the Midlands of England is Stapleford Park,
which stands five miles east of Melton Mowbray in Leicestershire. The
house, which is owned by Lord Gretton, is surrounded by extensive and
veneiable lawns, parklands, and fine trees. It is open to the public at certain
times. v
il n centu,r Y Stapleford belonged to Henry de Ferrers, who fought
at the Battle of Hastings under William the Conqueror. Thereafter it is
associated with many names—Vesey, Derby, Lancaster, Gaunt—until, in 1402,
it passed through marriage to Robert Sherard. The Old Wing, illustrated here,
was built in 1500 by Robert's great-grandson, Thomas. This, the oldest part
of the house, is remarkable for its heavy ornamentation, which consists of
sculptured figures standing in niches beneath Perpendicular canopies, and basso-
relievo panels of Biblical and other scenes beneath the windows. The panels
depict such scenes as the Annunciation, the murder of Thomas a’Becket and
the return of the Ark. On the south-east end of the Old Wing, which carries
a surprising Dutch-like gable, is a six-panel interpretation of the storv of
Creation. J
In the many spacious rooms of this great mansion can be seen paintings
by such artists as Romney, Canaletto, Geerarts, superb examples of Louis XV
and XVI furniture, carvings by Grinling Gibbons, fine mantelpieces by Adam
and Rysbrack and many other outstanding features. In the Drawing Room
can be seen a Dresden vase, which was presented by the Kaiser to the late Lord
Gretton when he won the Heligoland Yacht Race in 1899. One side of the vase
shows a view of the Palace of Potsdam and on another, the German eaHe
One of the largest rooms in the house is the Long Gallery, 80 feet built-in
1899, and which accommodates some fine pieces of English and French


1500 KHUN XEIi, Box 2671, G.P.0.,
A service for readers. That difficult to
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only
cessful.
The Red Page
IN ARNHEM LAND
In 1948 a joint Australian-American
scientific expedition led by C. P.
Mountford went to Arnhem Land and
collected 13,500 plants, 30,000 fish, 850
birds, 460 animals, some thousands of
aboriginal implements, miles of color-
film and innumerable photographs and
tracings of cave-paintings from Chasm
Island, Groote Eylandt and Oenpelli.
We heard something about this
in the resplendent Unesco volume
“Australia: Aboriginal Paintings,” and
now we hear much more in Charles
Mountford’s monumental Records of
the American - Australian Scientific
Expedition to Arnhem Land, pub-
lished by the Melbourne University
Press as the first of a series of four
volumes. The others will deal with
“Anthropology and Nutrition,”
“Botany” and “Natural History.”
This reviewer, mercifully, is not
learned enough to join in the con-
troversies lightly touched-on by Mr.
Mountford on pages 418 and 419, as
to the precise significance of the carved
figures at Yirkalla and the methods
(native spear-points; or rasps, files and
knives from an abandoned R.A.A.F.
camp) by which they are manufac-
tured. But obviously here is a vast
wealth of first-hand information and
observation for the experts to sift and
absorb; and one is glad to join with
the four forewords —by Mr. W. S.
Kent-Hughes, by Mr. Calwell, by Mr.
W. A. McLaren of the Department of
the Interior and by Mr. Mountford—
in giving due credit to all concerned.
This is indeed a major contribution to
our awareness of this continent.
For the general reader it is a book
to dip into.
There are the pleasing adventures
of the various parties as they make
camp at Chasm Island and Groote
Eylandt, swimming flooded rivers or
getting shipwrecked in outlandish
places; and a most heartfelt note by
Mr. Mountford on Oenpelli, which, one
had always suspected might have
rather a warm climate: —
Although the early mornings and
late evenings were sometimes
pleasant, the hours of daylight were
the reverse. The widespread in g
plains and rocky hillsides reflected
the burning heat of the sun, and the
hot winds and smoke from the grass-
fires lit by the aborigines added to
the discomfort. Every day the
temperature within the tents rose to,
over 100 degrees F., and on several
occasions reached 108 degrees F.
Nor were the nights much better,
for when writing-up our notes or
preparing the specimens gathered
during the day the mosquitoes
attacked us and myriads of moths,
beetles and other flying things
crawled into our eyes and became
entangled in our hair and clothing.
There are oddments of curious and
interesting information such as that the
aborigines throughout Arnhem Land
use the juice of one of the tree-orchids
(Dendrobium sp.) as a fixative to hold
their colors on bark or stone; or that,
as Mr. Mountford found, all aborigines
can paint—“l did not meet an aborigine
who could not or did not want to
paint.”
There are the original words and
translations of aboriginal songs. One
from Groote Eylandt is particularly
useful to know, for it has such a sooth-
ing effect on barramundi or whatever
spirits are in charge of them that they
can be both seen and speared more
readily. The words, which do not
seem exactly encouraging to barra-
mundi, mean “See the fish; stick spear
in back; skin the fish; eat the fish;
edge of mangrove swamp where fish is
caught”; and in the native tongue they
run:—
Jinwulu
Dari-waipu-daru
Mulugu-dari
Wuru-murumu
Lapatali.
There are descriptions of
corroborees, such as the “Dance of the
Young Stingrays'.” There are many
aboriginal legends; among which, if
some are as boring and nonsensical as
perhaps our own strange folklore and
even that of the Greeks would be to
an aborigine (what would they make
of a maiden changed into a heifer by
a god and tormented by a divine gad-
fly?), there is still much pleasure to
be obtained from the story of the
man Buma-buma who lives by himself
in termite-mounds and eats honey,
bandicoots and goannas—a most
idyllic existence—or of the double-
men, Barun-barun, who are joined back
to back and have to walk everywhere
together. They still live in a cave at
Tjeraidui, but they no longer allow
anyone to visit them.
Then there are the numerous black-
and-white reproductions of bark- and
cave-paintings; and if the present
reviewer always refuses to let his head
g 0 OV er primitive art—it is the art of
children—many of the designs are
nevertheless both striking and pleasant,
an( j the little running-women of
Oenpelli, which so strangely resemble
t he art of the African Bushmen, and
which look like dainty clothes-pegs,
have always a curious fascination. And
this at least must be said for these and
ot her drawings that they have some
living quality of line which shows in a
photographic reproduction and is lost,
through the heaviness of the pen, in a
tracing. Not, of course, that one
should be anything but grateful for
the patient and arduous work that has
gone i nto the tracings,
“ And fina iiy s if o ne excepts the
met iculous explanations of the paint-
jngs as c hiefly of interest to the experts,
tbere are haunting glimpses of the dim
past of this continent: in the myth, at
p ort B rac j sbaw of a fair-haired people
w h o came to search for trepang and
brought wives and swords with them,
and have been early Dutch or
Portllguese visitors; and in the much
more anc i e nt myth of the ever-enchant-
• Mimi sp i r i t .people who are
sup p osed f 0 have drawn the running-
women at Oenpelli and who were so
tall and thin that they could hunt
only i n still weather, otherwise the
w j nd WO uld break their frail bodies,
p or SQ e i aborate and scholarly a
duction the book has a remarkably
index—this reviewer couldn’t even
r; . ~ f _
Unesco in lb . ,
all ov e r P^ ace to P eet „
redoubtable Buma-buma again. But
perhaps that, too, will be adequate ror
the experts; and one must not finish
on a note of complaint. It is a work
of the first magnitude in its field.
James McAuley's Poems
James McAuley states his aims
clearly in his new book of poems, A
Vision of Ceremony (Angus and
Robertson). He is trying to write
or obliged to write: who are we, as
Slessof said, to argue with our lutes?
—a kind of “sober drunkenness ’; he
chooses “calm bare solemn words”;
he advises others, or himself, to
Scorn then to darken and contract
The landscape of the heart
By individual, arbitrary
And self-expressive art.
L et y°9 r speech be ordered wholly
al \ mt ellectual love ;
|?. U( ? lc a f te u c ? r ? a ma f e
Wlth clear "S ht from above -
Calmness, bareness, solemnity: these
are austere ambitions. One thinks of
other poets who have followed them,
Matthew Arnold and Eliot, and who
have achieved—what? Never robust-
ness; never the ruggedness of the
earth; never, as a final and total impres-
sion, richness; never lyrical delight;
never, in the Shakspearian sense, drama
on the grand scale . . . but at least, and
it is much, calmness, bareness,
solemnity.
Mr. McAuley has defined, not the
only method for poetry; not the greatest
or most rewarding; but one of the
many possible methods, and one in
which we may expect to find Spartan
virtues.
When Mr. McAuley is at his best we
do. It is the absence of all ornament
and overstatement, as well as the
presence of exactness and purity of
style—plus a rare undertone of music
—that makes the perfection of his
lyric about the pallid-cuckoo, whose
repetitive notes, sometimes sounding
all through a summer night, have led
less-appreciative souls to call him the
“brain-fever bird”: —
The pallid-cuckoo
Sent up in frail
Microtones
His tiny scale
On the cold air.
What joy I found
Mounting that tiny
Stair of sound.
There is a shrewd, nuggety plainness
of style—if one misses the wit of A. D.
Hope —in his satirical “Letter to John
Dryden,” a long poem stating a
Catholic viewpoint on the modern
world:—
The law of Moses said it very
clearly:
Man cannot live by Oslo lunches
merely.
The clearest statement of the line of
thought which runs throughout the
book, and some of the best of his
poetry, clear and cool, is in part of
“The Hero and the Hydra”:—
In spring the air breaks with the
splintering cry
Of lust and rage; bright feathers
stain; red blood
Flows from the bull’s flank ; insects
pierce and die ;
And all would perish in that
wrathful mood
I thought, until in vision once T saw
The goddess Ceremony giving law
To creatures of the wild air and the
wood ;
Excitement changed to dance and
courtesy.
Far out upon a seaward rock she
stood
And watched the wheeling gulls, the
parquetry
Of fish that slide within the tranquil
wave . . .
These, then, are the occasions when
Mr. McAuley achieves his aims; and,
with his extension of the range of Aus-
tralian poetry into New Guinea, and
his expression of the Catholic view-
point, they make him worth reading.
But the occasions are not nearly so
frequent as one could wish. Echoing
Housman, Yeats, Coleridge, Tennyson
(in the fine ending to “The Ascent of
Heracles”) and, chiefly, the pastoral
style of the 18th century —
But mostly, stilled to trance, O palm,
Your paradisal plumage rears
Its fountain, and amidst the calm
A milky flowering spathe appears ;
Which an ascending youth incises
Deftly with a bamboo knife,
Whence a fermenting fluid rises . . .
it is largely a cerebral, stylised sort of
poetry which, even when it touches life
for a moment in “Mating Swans” or
the New Guinea landscapes, quickly
sinks back into mere painstaking
literary and philosophic exercise. Mr.
McAuley is more often dogged than
solemn; and he cannot hope to be
“bare” when he insists on wearing the
clothes of Pope and Dryden.
Love in the Blue Mountains
Helen Heney has made a mixed grill
of old and new Australian themes in
her new novel, This Quiet Dust (Angus
and Robertson). It begins on the Blue
Mountains, at Wentworth Falls, with
the calf-love of 16-year-old artist Noel
Bailey for an invalid old judge’s 26-
year-old wife, Henrietta Raine. She
tends towards her little son’s tutor,
just out of World War I, and goes as
far as being found in his bedroom, at
night, in her dressing-gown by her old,
scheming sister-in-law; and the old
judge has a stroke and dies.
But the tutor becomes a master at
a great public school and very properly
marries Mr. Bailey’s schoolmistress-
cousin Dulcie; and, moreover, young
Mrs. Raine discovers that she has not
been the judge’s one and only love;
his solicitor, Alec Raine, is his natural
son. This hurts her feelings; she runs
around with men, marries and divorces
an impossible ship’s-officer and inter-
feres with the marriage of Alec Rame s
daughter to a New Australian lawyer
and of her son Steve to a squatter s
daughter. .
All this gets poor Henrietta ready
for the main point of the book, when,
rich, raddled and sozzled, in Pans just
after World War 11, she marries a
gigolo, an alleged Russian. Noel
Bailey, now a world-famous artist, in
some kind of Army job, is asked by the
family to go to Paris and vet the gigolo.
With this gigolo Miss Heney becomes
really good. Yes, he says, he married
Henrietta because he wanted a pass-
port to Australia —but what of that?
Who else can do anything with her?
And after a well-managed trip to
Germany to fix up the gigolo’s pass-
port and to allow him to say goodbye
to his alleged sister and his former
girl-friend, the couple proceed to
England, where, indeed, the gigolo lays
himself out, and really worries, to get
Henrietta off the dope. She blossoms
for him like a flower; they proceed to
Wentworth Falls; he labors to become
a leader in Wentworth Falls society—
and then the aged, scheming judge’s
sister discovers that the gigolo was
already married when he married
Henrietta.
At a family-conference Steve’s young
squatter’s daughter tips the beam for
doing nothing. Then the gigolo begins
to urge that all that is required to
complete his and Henrietta’s happiness
is an adopted child —a German child.
Noel Bailey, on his way to Europe on
some art-matter (be an artist and see
the world), is asked to bring the child
out with him. Before he goes it dawns
upon him that the German child will
be the gigolo’s own child, begotten,
moreover, when the gigolo was sup-
posed to be saying good-bye to his
“sister.” Nevertheless, Noel takes on
the job, falls for the gigolo’s wife in
Germany, “marries” her and brings
her back, with the gigolo’s child, to live
just down the street from the gigolo
and Henrietta at Wentworth Falls.
As a novel, it’s a lively game of
chess, brightened by some brilliant
strokes of insight, especially into the
tortuous but logical mind of the gigolo,
to whom the rest are merely back-
ground-figures.
Dance-band Leader
Son of a London blacksmith who
became a grocer as cars took over
from horses, Henry Hall explains in
his autobiography, Here’s to the Next
Time (Odhams), how he rose to be the
best-known dance-band leader in
England.
It is surprising, but natural, that a
great number of the best-known English
dance-band leaders have studied in
classical academies—indeed, some of
the bqst-known American dance-music
composers and arrangers have been
Englishmen with academy-degrees:
and Henry Hall was no exception. He
studied piano and trumpet at Trinity
College, then trumpet at the Royal
Academy, and finally his father got him
a job at 12s. 6d. a week in the Salva-
tion Army’s music-department, where,
typing letters, proof-reading and copy-
ing music, he “learned to read music
as most people read their evening
papers, with an eye which sorts out,
almost by instinct, the important and
the incorrect.”
Aged 18, in 1916, he was kicked in
the stomach by a Field Artillery horse
during an air-raid. In army-hospital,
they put him in charge of accounts,
then, after he had been awarded three
days C.B. for playing the piano in the
floating officers’-mess on the Solent, he
was transferred to the Cadet School
at Trowbridge as an all-purpose
musician, arranging music, playing for
dances and touring in revues as
Godfrey Tearle’s batman, and in his
spare time practising.
After the war he washed about tiy-
ing to get listened-to with small trios
until, late in 1922, he got a job as
deputy-pianist in the Manchester Mid-
land Hotel dance-band. His was only
o Continued on page 35)


Y.
Y.
fi
V
v
Summer shoe smartness begins
from Anthony Horderns 9
m
Tan Leather Sandals: Crepe rubber soles, full & half
sizes 5-10, 74/-, leather soles, 65/-. Size 11 2/G extra.
“Pablo Slax”: London tan and taffy brown calf,
with wedge leather soles, full and half sizes 5-10, 61/-.
Leisure Scuffs: Tan or cherry calf, full and half sizes
5-10, 49/6; without backs, 43/3. Size 11 2/6 extra.
/ .
J-!
I I
Summer Sandals at 54/-: In tan calf with wedge
leather soles, full and half sizes 5 to 10. Priced at 54/-.
Marshall Moc. Front Casual 9 89/6
Marshall tan moccasin front casual on English last in fit-
tings “D,” “E,” and “F,” genuine welted leather soles, they
are in sizes 5 to 10 and priced at 89/6. Size 11 is 2/6 extra..
A UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS
nthony Horderns'
POST YOUR ORDERS TO ROX 2712, G.P.0., SYDNEY. POSTAGE EXTRA. TELEPHONE R 0951


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 4003
Wednesday, October 31, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
' Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Co-llins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0. ), Wellington.
SATELLITES IN REVOLT
THE situation which has now developed in the"'
Communist set-up is typical of what has been
confusing the world for several months. Everything
is paradoxical about it, and it is difficult to know
whether it has arisen from deliberate policy con-
ceived in the tortuous minds of the Kremlin or
from a spontaneous outburst of rebellion in
satellite countries which may be exploited by Russia
to further effect.
The beginnings of the present sequence of
events go back to Khrushchev’s bewildering speech
—which Moscow has belatedly said to have been
“cooked” by the U.S. State Department to suit its
own purposes —made at a secret session of the
Russian Communist party on February 25 last.
The text of this speech came out in June. At the
same time the wooing of Tito began in earnest, and
as a first step towards his placation the Cominform
was abolished, and with this move —ostensibly—
went united action by the satellite nations of
eastern Europe towards a more liberal policy.
This seemed a most peculiar sequel to the
conference which only the previous September had
established a united “defence force” for the
satellite countries and Russia, virtually integral
with the Red Army and under the supreme com-
mand of Marshal Koniev, Russia’s top commander.
A redeployment of Russian troops had followed
this agreement.
The various talks with Tito had been followed
by the development of considerable disturbance in
some of the satellite countries, attributed generally
to restlessness caused by the new policy of freedom
proclaimed by the Kremlin and the decision to
abolish the cult of “individualism” and “Stalin-
worship.”
The change of line involved the deposition of
a lot of Stalinists of heavy tonnage and influence
who, like the unfortunate Beria, were reckoned to
be dangerous to the Khrushchev regime.
It is not to be wondered at that the enlightened
citizenry of the Russian colonies, held down by
Red force, were somewhat bewildered by the “new
look” of the Kremlin and especially by the “new
look” of Khrushchev, the alleged hater of Stalm,
who as late as 1955 had been held up in the official
Russian encyclopaedia published by his Govern-
ment as “one of the closest comrades-in-arms of
J. V. Stalin.” The other top-ranking war-lords of
the Khrushchev regime—Molotov, Voroshilov,
Mikoyan and Kaganovich—were merely referred to
as plain “comrades-in-arms.”
At the same time it was made clear that the
“new look” did not mean new principles. Moscow
Radio, following the disclosure of the text of
Khrushchev’s speech, on June 29 announced that
under the new historical conditions such inter-
national organisations of the working-class as the
Comintern and the Cominform have ceased their
activities, but it does not follow from this that
the international solidarity and need for contacts
between fraternal revolutionary parties which take
a Marxist-Leninist position have lost their
significance.
This statement has been reinforced within the past
few weeks by the publication of a letter from
Moscow headquarters reminding Communist parties
abroad that they are merely colonial adjuncts of
the Russian Communist party and subservient to
its policies.
Behind the chasing-out of the Old Stalinists,
like Rakosi of Hungary, and the digging-up and
canonisation of the Old Titoists who over a number
of years were solemnly tried and shot as
deviationists, saboteurs and—invariably—spies and
agents of the imperialist British and Americans, the
aims of Moscow Communism, the colonial policy
and cold-war policy of the Kremlin have remained
unchanged and unchangeable. But those under
their thumb seem to have found it difficult not to
take Khrushchev and Bulganin at their words
that they wish to see the Communist system
“democratised.”
How much is real about the restlessness in
Poland especially and how much is contrived by
Moscow for its own purposes it is difficult to
estimate. Only one thing is beyond question:
the economic condition of Poland and Hungary
especially has been worsening.
The food situation in eastern Russian
provinces, thanks to a poor harvest, is also unsatis-
factory, and there is a threat of a bad winter
ahead. The Poznan riots were obviously a
product of starvation and repression. But of what
the leniency of treatment of the rioters which
followed was a symptom it is not so certain. It
may have been an emanation of Moscow policy
contrived as part of the “soft war.” It may have
been the emanation of Moscow’s realisation that
it could not go too far with the Poles without
exposing to the world in all its raw brutality the
internal machinery of Russia’s imperialist
colonialism in a way which might not have gone
down with British and American parlor-Pinks and
the sensitive Indians and Indonesians.
The aftermaths in which the Gomulka Com-
munists replaced the Stalinist Communists may
either have been a manoeuvre by Moscow to
replace an old gang by a new gang which. would
be more amenable to the new Kremlin policies and
more useful in conciliating Tito, whose aid is vital
to the U.S.S.R. in the conquest of Europe. But,
again, they may have been produced either as a
piece of propaganda to persuade the West that the
Kremlin does not control the satellite countries and
that they are free to choose their own Governments,
or a device to forestall anti-Communist revolution
which would have thrown Poland into the arms of
the West and cut-off the colony of East Germany,
so vital to Russian aggressive aims, from direct
communication with Moscow by surface route.
The breakaway of Poland from the Iron
Curtain group could only be the prelude to the
swift reunion of Eastern and Western Germany
and a complete reorganisation of the balance-of-
power in Europe. Both for Russia and for the
West a united Germany would make Europe a
different type of place to live in.
Whatever the objective or the motive-power
behind the Polish changes, all that has happened is
that one gang of Communists has been replaced by
another.
Whether Gomulka’s gang will be strong enough
to continue to hold the Polish people in bondage,
or whether the Poles in the majority are satisfied
with the bondage, remains to be seen. One thing,
however, is certain. The condition of the Polish
workers verges on starvation on the edge of a
threatening winter, and the Polish Government,
whether its liberalism is a pretence or genuine, is
using it for all it is worth as an excuse to reverse
its previous scorn of Marshall-plan aid in a
Machiavellian scheme to bribe the toilers away
from the Russian zone. They are cunningly court-
ing American aid, while hostile to American world
policy.
The position in the southern satellite countries
behind the Iron Curtain is not so obscure. With
the dismissal of Rakosi, who had been Moscow’s
agent in Budapest for a decade, and the new
Hungarian rapprochements with Bulgaria and
Yugoslavia, it seemed a couple of months ago that
any crisis among the Magyars was over.
But on October 1 it was suddenly announced
that the year’s crop-production had largely failed,
especially in the staple of maize, and that in
consequence famine rations would be the rule in
Hungary during the winter.
At the same time a coal-shortage was dis-
covered, which caused the withdrawal of 50 per
cent, of trains and more than 1500 buses and lorries
from civilian service “to save fuel. 7 ’ The closing-off
of many large railway-stations was announced. It
was asserted officially that all this would be
necessary for three weeks. At the same time
conscripts who had been released from training
were called up and there were reports of large
movements of Russian troops and general restless-
ness throughout the country. It was guilefully
hinted that the Red Army was in process of going
home.
Last week, following the changes in Poland,
came a sudden blast of vigorous revolutionary
ardor in Buda, beginning among university students,
as had an earlier and milder manifestation, nipped
viciously in the bud in Czechoslovakia at the time
of the annual meeting of that country’s Communist
party, before any violence could develop.
As in Poland, the disturbances have resulted,
in the instant swapping of an Old Gang of rulers
for another Old Gang headed by the pliant Nagy,
who a year ago was being denounced as a traitor,
deviationist, provocateur and spy for the
imperialists.
In his takeover of authority he has had the
all-too-prompt aid, under martial law, of Russian
military forces, most of which were supposed early
in the month to be leaving the country.
He has proclaimed his adherence to the
Moscow bloc as has his fellow-avatar of freedom
in Warsaw. Khrushchev, Gomulka and Nagy,
whatever else they may be, are three Communist
thugs bound together in a common policy.
So far, whatever has been achieved by the
rebels, Moscow control continues. Revolutionary
elements have been tempted to expose themselves
prematurely and get shot-down. But discontent
with old Communist regimes has not yet been
placated by the transfer of the members of those
regimes and their replacement by others just as
subservient to Moscow. The Western • world has
had the worst momentarily hidden from it.
It remains to be seen whether the devices of
the Communist leaders can hold the situation
together in the coming weeks in the face of
obviously organised revolt.
It has not been a good year for Communism
whatever the physical results. Its propaganda and
manoeuvres in the East and Africa have strengthened
the determination of Western Governments to resist
it, have consolidated the political parties of divided
France, have brought France and Western Germany
together. They have also, despite all blandish-
ments, antagonised the Indians so that Nehru within
the past month has roundly denounced Commun-
ism as a system which can only be established
through brutality and bloodshed. The Asian
peoples must even now note a marked difference
between the methods of British colonialism and
Russian colonialism.
With proper encouragement the satellite
countries of Eastern Europe could be restored to
Western civilisation. And the Moscow Govern-
ment is obviously becoming unstable and creaking
at the joints as it has not creaked since before the
great purges of the early-Stalin era.
Budget Sittings Ending
[FROM CANBERRA]
NOTHING spectacular has • been said or
accomplished during the Budget sittings of Federal
Parliament which are ending this week.
The Budget has been debated with far more
constructive criticism coming from the Govern-
ment back-benches than from the faction-tom and
dismayed Opposition. The necessary bills have
been passed, again with the best suggestions coming
from the Government side for their improvement.
The absence of a truly critical Opposition has
made the sittings rather more frustratingly irritat-
ing than usual, because the front Government bench
has shown little disposition to produce more than
the bare minimum of argument for its case, and
none towards replying to the series of proposals
from its own supporting members.
The suggestion has been made in the lobbies
that the ideas of the private Government members
on Budget-improvement and on social services—
including national superannuation—should be
embodied in a small booklet which could be widely
circulated. The impact of these ideas in such a
form might be greater than having them buried and
out of sight in “Hansard,” and it might awaken
Ministers to the desirability of ceasipg to rely for
ever on the advice of their departmental
bureaucrats.
In the background the private members have
also been more active than the Government. The
Public Accounts Committee has produced some
excellent reports and taken a good deal of evidence.
A private committee of Government members has
investigated the rail-gauge problem, paying all
their own expenses in visits to several States with
the exception of their fares —a remarkable and
thought-provoking precedent.
There has, of course, been what the newspapers
term a “reshuffle” of the Ministry, but that has
accomplished little in the necessary direction of
getting defence under some sort of co-ordinated
and efficient control. There has been no real
attempt at economy, even in the use of Government
cars for the transport of Ministers’ wives, of House
waiters and waitresses, and of Ministers’ typists;
no true attempt to encourage the increased produc-
tion which would solve most of our economic
troubles; no endeavor (except, again, by some
private members) to grapple with the grave issues
raised by the continuation and increased severity
of import-licensing. Banking reform has been
side-stepped again, on the pretext that this is not
the time even to consider it, and there has been
long and inexcusable delay in reconstituting the
committee on amendment of the Constitution,
which lost its chairman when the Attorney-General
went to the Arbitration Court Bench.
In other words, the Government .is displaying
signs of prolonged office without the stimulus of a
keen and ambitious Opposition. Minister are
expressing pleasure at the prospect of a Parlia-
mentary recess which will probably last at least
five months, and the staffs of the House, with their
recently-increased salaries, are also contemplating
a long period of well-paid leisure.
This sort of thing is hardly good enough in a
period when the nation (not to mention the
Premiers) is looking for a lead which will hold
and expand our trade overseas and consolidate tne
prosperity which is still apparent internally, me
individual Ministers concede the dangers ot
complacency, but none of them seems prepared to
make an issue of the subject. Perhaps the Prime
Minister will devote some of the recess to examining
the current needs and planning some effective
action on them.


COMMUNIST CROSSROADS
“Just where do we go from here, Khrushchev?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Silence of Bert Evatt
The silence of Dr. Evatt and his usually
vocal Shadow Cabinet on foreign affairs
is an intriguing concomitant of the latest
trends of Russian politics in eastern
Europe. Some comment on events in
Hungary and Poland certainly should
have been forthcoming from a party
whose leader not long ago preferred the
say-so of Molotov on a matter affecting
Australian security to the findings ot
three Australian judges.
Perhaps, like the Kremlin during the
past week or so, Dr. Evatt has learnt
from experience that silence is better
than explanation in some situations. As
the Kremlin is saying nothing about its
revolutions, so Dr. Evatt and his fol-
lowers are saying very little either about
the European outbreak or about the
milder revolution which the A.L.P. is
suffering in its own ranks.
It is difficult to believe that a party-
leader who has always held himself up as
the Messiah in Australia of the ‘four
freedoms” doesn’t wince as he hears old
supporters like Dr. Lloyd Ross, secretary
of the N.S.W. A.R.U., proclaiming that
“the Labor party is in danger of crumb-
ling at the grassroots both because branch
critics and minorities may be intimidated
into silence, and because freedom of
discussion is disappearing in some
branches
Dr. Ross wrote in the press last week
that “no union could hope to survive it
it applied the tests of conformity that are
being enforced,” adding:
Some of those in the branches who are
most vocal in support of the democratic
rights of colonial countries are most deter-
mined to suppress all critics within the
Labor party—even when the critics have
said nothing! And liberty of discussion
which Labor has defended on behalf ot
the Communists is being denied to those
who are opposed to Communism in the
branches.
He thought “Dr. Evatt, who once pro-
posed that a Declaration of Rights be
written into the Australian Constitution,
might be invited to prepare a Declaration
of Rights for all members of the Labor
party.” .
There was no response to this invita-
tion, but the trail of incidents in which
minority branch-leadership endeavored
to suppress the votes of majorities
opposed to the “official” A.L.P. view-
point and sometimes has been
suppressed instead —continues.
Wages and Politics
Political hypnotism is an overpowering
influence, and the temptation to delude
the mug-voter is too much for the
average politician. Mr. Cahill showed
at first some hesitation about incorporat-
ing the latest cost-of-living rise in the
N.S.W. basic wage, but it needed only a
few ominously whispered threats from
the Leftist Trades and Labor Council
and he was in full accord.
The Victorian position was, of course,
made clear before the issue of the C
series quarterly index. Victoria has
wisely drawn out of the procession
toward the vortex.
In Queensland the industrial court
promptly dealt with the matter before
Trades Hall agitation could be whooped-
up to torhado strength. It refixed the
wage on the basis of only 4s. a week of
the 7s. c.-0.-l. increase, excluding
potatoes and onions from consideration.
It expressed the opinion that the index
didn’t “purport to be a complete index
of price-fluctuations in all commodities,”
but that it was “only an indicator of
price-trends,” and that consequently
increases in potato- and onion-prices
“made the index unreal as to retail prices
generally.” It is difficult to understand
why the court didn’t carry its logic to a
full natural conclusion.
Mr. Cahill, after his first momentary
hesitation, made up his mind firmly. The
N.S.W. Industrial Registrar on October
23 announced that, as from the first pay-
period in November, the new male basic
wage for employees under State awards
would be £l3 145., a rise of 11s.
Cahill, like other extremists of Evatt’s
type, seems to regard the situation as
one which can be used to forward the
cause of Socialism—and, incidentally, of
the blackmarkets —by “control of prices,
interest-rates, capital-issues and profits,
the abolition of the payroll tax, the
incidence of immigration, imports and
Commonwealth expenditure.” Mr. Cos-
grove (Tasmania) is in the same mood.
On the day on which Mr. Cahill spoke
the Metal Trades Unions, backed by the
A.C.T.U., applied to the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court for basic-wage increases and
the restoration of quarterly cost-of-living
adjustments in all States except W.A.,
where the metal trades are under State
awards. This at a moment when the
A.C.T.U. was still battling valiantly
for a two-hour nationwide strike on
November 8, presumably to bring
pressure on the Prime Minister’s wage
conference, which opens on November 13.
This conference, as Mr. Menzies
informed Mr. Ward in reply to a propa-
ganda question, has not been called “to
discuss the ways of repressing wage-
rates but to achieve some uniformity in
methods of wage-fixation.” He is hopeful
enough to believe that “commonsense
may produce an answer.” Others,
including the Federal Opposition and
the Federal A.L.P. executive, which has
called a special meeting in Canberra for
October 31 to discuss the present
economic situation and issue instructions
to the “Labor” Premiers who are to
take part in the conference, are hopeful
that it may provide further means of
destroying the power of the Federal
Government to govern.
Bolte Pays Off
On July 15, during the goodwill tour
overseas of Henry Bolte, two top men
in the motor - industry turned up
unexpectedly after a 500-mile trip to
attend a dinner at Toronto (Canada) in
honor of the Victorian Premier.
They were Ichys Sale, president of the
Ford Motor Co. of Canada, and T. J.
Emmert, executive vice-president; and
though all parties were owlishly silent
after the talk that followed, it was reason-
able to assume the Ford leaders had not
chartered a plane to make a dinner-
speech.
The announcement by Bolte that Ford
would build a car-plant costing several
million, which would be one of the
biggest undertakings in Victoria, came
last week, and the Premier immediately
introduced a bill in the Assembly to sell
400 acres of Housing Commission land
to the company at £5OO an acre.
The site, at Broadmeadows, on the out-
skirts of Melbourne, would have pleased
those interested acutely in the develop-
ment of the State if it had been chosen
near Bendigo, Portland or Ballarat, and
did not, as this site must, add to the city
sprawl; but Ford announced that its
Geelong factory would be modernised and
fully engaged in fooling and manufac-
turing.
U.S. executives, of course, don’t look
to the development of particular States
or areas when they weigh the value
of a plant-site ; they are more likely to
look at the nation as a whole.
It is significant, though, that both big
U.S. companies have settled in Mel-
bourne, and Baron Von Oertzen
announced within two days that Volks-
wagen, of which he is managing-director
for the Southern Hemisphere, would be
centred in Melbourne and within a few
years would contain 70 per cent.
Australian content.
A few years ago a General Motors
brochure claimed that production in the
south-east of the continent was Australia’s
highest, and compared with the world’s
best. It may be the climate. It may be
the political climate, too.
Secure Security
“In the ACT”: During the last few
weeks the “Labor” party has been renew-
ing its criticism of the Petrov royal com-
mission and the admirable report which
that commission issued. By inference,
these attacks have meant criticism of the
Security Service which was instrumental
in arranging for Petrov’s defection and
for the handing-over of Soviet documents
of far greater value than the majority of
Australians yet realise.
These attacks made it apparent
that any change of Government
in the future, especially if the Evatt-
Ward combination ever unhappily took
over, might well mean the destruc-
tion of the Security Service and the
dismissal at once of its present highly-
trained and efficient staff. Consequently
the Prime Minister last week introduced
his bill to put the service on a statutory
basis and to protect its members, “subject
only to the Parliament,” from what has
been until now and would otherwise
remain the Crown’s right to dismiss them
summarily.
Mr. Menzies said the Government had
been convinced by the attacks on the ser-
vice during the royal commission that the
legislation was necessary for the protec-
tion, and therefore also for the efficiency,
of the service. He paid tributes to its
director and staff, and said that Australia
had good reason to be both grateful for
and proud of the achievement and repu-
tation of the service. At the same time
he stressed that it had no police function
or powers and was purely advisory. It
could not direct any department on
measures of security or interfere in the
administration of a department. It did
not trespass on the field of the three
armed Services, but co-operated with them
and their intelligence organisations, and
thus in a real sense constituted "‘a fourth
branch of the defence force.’
As the Prime Minister spoke, Mr. Ward
made notes eagerly, and Dr. Evatt listened
with keen attention. It was obvious that
the Opposition would do its utmost to
discredit the service when the debate was
resumed.
Steel for the West
A week ago Westralia gained a new
industry when Premier Hawke officially
opened the B.H.P. steel-rolling mill at
Kwinana, on Cock burn Sound, 12 miles
south of Fremantle and next-door to the
British Petroleum Company’s giant new
oil-refinery. The plant, erected at a cost
of £3i million and capable of producing
150 sizes and types of steel-sections, has
a production-rate exceeding 100 tons a
shift. To begin with it will employ 90
men on a one-shift-a-day basis. In the
range of products covered this will be
sufficient to meet all Westralia’s require-
ments and it will to tha.t extent relieve the
pressure on the rolling-mills in New
South Wales.
Construction-work on the plant was
begun in March, 1953, and the fence-post
plant—a separate unit —went into pro-
duction in April, 1954, since when it has
turned-out more than three-million posts.
Work on the main plant ran well ahead
of schedule and last May the first ship-
ment of steel billets —raw material for the
rolling-mill—was unloaded at the new
1350 ft.-jetty. The mill rolled its first bar
on July 16.
Considered alongside the vast expan-
sion projects in course of development at
Port Kembla and Newcastle the
Kwinana mill is not so impressive, but it
is a beginning, and forward-looking Wes-
tralians haven’t yet given up hope of pei -
suading B.H.P. to wed Yampi iron-ore to
Collie coal to give their State a full-scale
steel-industry.
Potato Peril
“Collins Street” : The poor potato has
been subject to vicious attacks in Vic-
toria in recent days by prominent men,
including economists, the Premier, the
Lord Mayor and lesser gourmets ; and
even the Government Statistician has
joined the attack by implication in an-
nouncing that the new cost-of-living rise
of Bs. would have been a mere Is. if
potatoes (with an onion flavoring) had
not been included in the “C”-series index
on which the award is based.
According to the Encyclopaedia
Britannica, which these fellows have
clearly neglected to consult or they would
have choked, the potato is 75 to 80 per
cent, water ; 11 to 20 per cent, starch ; 1.5
to two per cent, protein, and two to three
per cent, fibre and mineral salts or ash,
and its value both as a food and in the
manufacture of by-products is because of
its starch.
It is doubtful if the forthright English
nobleman in the early 17th century
had the benefit of a similar analysis after
Sir Walter Raleigh (or Drake, or some-
one) had brought them to Britain in 1585,
but he threatened to sack any of his estate
employees he found filling themselves up
with potato-rubbish instead of good
honest food, such as a dozen eggs for
breakfast, no doubt.
The noble squire’s indignation rose
from human feelings for the welfare of
his inferiors ; today in Melbourne leaders
ask rich and poor alike to eschew them
for the welfare of the national purse and
demand that the potato should be
removed from the “C”-series index when
its price becomes prohibitive.
The request is reasonable enough, and
realistic, since potatoes have been re-
moved in fact from the everyday diet of
all but the very few in this country who
don’t have to count the cost.
Moreover, the 75.-a-week cost-of-living
rise for potatoes, if the Government had
not ended the automatic c.-0.-l. rises,
would have meant increased rail, tram,
gas and electricity costs, as well as in-
creases in rents on controlled houses, an
excessive additional price for the public
appetite for the luxury.
“I would not eat sixpence-worth of
potatoes a week at the present price,” said
the Premier, joining in the chorus to
eschew them. Still, there was a wistful
note in his voice as he said it.
Fraser, M.L.A.
“D.”: Alec Fraser, M L, A , has done it
again. The crown for political guile in
Victorian politics, it was generally con-
ceded, would go to him when Artful
Albert Dunstan died, and he has certainly
wangled —writing not in hostility but in
mere wonder —his way round.
He was a senior Government officer
when he left the civil service and became
g.-m. of the Great Southern Co-op. Co
Dunstan, a political soul-mate, appointed
him chairman of the Transport Board in
1937, and during the war he was chairman
of the State Liquid Fuel Board, director
of Emergency Road Transport and a
member of the committees dealing with
cargo and “war roads.”
The only party Fraser had neglected
to woo came in at the end of the war, and
Cain replaced him by his own appointee
on the Transport Board ; but the Country
party came to the rescue and put him in
the Senate, and, when he lost his seat,
made him general-secretary.
He left the C.P., a political surprise
until the Liberals endorsed him lor
Grant, which he held for a couple of
years until again defeated, and he was
then found the safe Caulfield East seat.
There were some strong rivals for an
Assistant Ministership in State Cabinet
last March. It was worth £2650 a year.
Result: Fraser, 1.
There are two seats in the Caulfield
area: Caulfield, held by J. A. Rafferty,
a political tyro in comparison with
Fraser, and Fraser’s Caulfield East. Under
the redivision of seats,' Fraser’s has
disappeared. The L.C.P. State executive
met, and it must be obvious by now who
won the endorsement for Mr. Rafferty’s
seat.
Trafalgar Day Launching
A guard-of-honor stood in readiness;
the Showboat arrived, bringing official
guests, including top Naval men and
M.P.s ; an interested crowd, mostly chil-
dren, had taken-up available vantage-
points ; and a Naval band breezed
through such apporpriate tunes as “All
the Nice Girls Love a Sailor.” A warm
Sydney sun smiled down as the anthem
and a “Present Arms” from the guard
signalled the arrival of the official party ;
and Lady Slim took-up her position on
the launching-platform.
A ceremony of launching followed:
the principal officer of the dockyard
(Engineer Captain G. I. D. Hutcheson)
made his invocation; the blessings of the
Protestant and Roman Catholic chaplains
were then respectively passed on the ship
(Australian launching history was made
by the joint blessing); then the mass of
spectators chanted the prayer set-down
on the printed leaflet earlier handed-out;
the Lord’s Prayer and a hymn followed.
Lady Slim then named the ship, and cut
the ribbon that sent the champagne-bottle
crashing against the ship’s bow—and
H.M.A.S. Vampire was away, sliding
majestically from the Cockatoo Island
dock into the water of Sydney Harbor,
where an escort of three little tugs puffed-
up to chaperone her introduction to the
sea. Her complement of workmen waved
to the crowd, who, led by Captain
Hutcheson, gave the ship three hearty
cheers.
The Vampire is the latest of the
R.A.N.’s Daring-class ships. She is a
sister-ship to the Voyager (launched at
Cockatoo in 1952, and due for completion
at the end of this year) and the Vendetta
(launched at Williamstown, Victoria, in
1954, and due for completion towards the
end of next year). The Daring-class ships
are product of an expansion and merging
of “weapon”- and “battle”-designs. They
are a cross almost between the light-
cruiser and the destroyer.
Vampire’s namesake, as with her sister-
ships, was a member of the “Scrapiron
Flotilla,” whose Mediterranean exploits
of the last war are a byword of Naval
history. She has something to live up to.
t
Hungarian Revolution
“Ek Dum” on the satellite revolt:
The Polish "revolution” by October 29 seemed
to have gone the way of Moscow. The Soviet
had a distinct advantage. Its Precautions were
infinitely stronger than in Hungary,
were very much larger, partly because Poland
provided it with sea-access to the world at
Farge through Gdynia, partly because Warsaw
was a sort of capital of the Iron Curtarn
satellites where conferences were mainly hel
and where a large military command was seate
under one of the Red Army s top marshes, a
Pole who had deserted his county and who
had commanded an important and success)
Armv-group during World War 11.
Finally, because Poland held strategic air
positions commanding the Baltic and becaus
sufficient strength' could be kept there in reser
(I Continued on next page )


to assure that East Germany would be held if
the worst happened.
The process in Poland seemed to be simple.
First some rebellious elements were encouraged
to show their hands—prematurely—so that the
authorities would know where resistance lurked.
Then a new Communist Government, fully
sympathetic to and working with Russia, was
installed, one which was in a position to shout
for liberty without having the slightest intention
of granting more than had been available
before.
The promises of demooratisation which went
with the inception of this “new” regime acted
like a poultice and drew whatever rebellious
dements were organised into the open. Then
the Red Army, already placed, chopped them
up.
Hungary is a cat of rather different color.
The German conquerors gave way to the
Russian conquerors who roved it with help
from such lamous Comintern characters as
Rakosi, raping and burning and murdering until
the poverty-stricken place was seemingly
subdued. The head of the Soviet-style
Presidium a couple of years ago was still Rakosi,
with Imre Nagy chairman of the Council of
Ministers and Erno Gero Minister for the
Interior. Rakosi has gone under the anti-Stalin
purge. The other two, having retired gracefully
for a brief interval without coming to much
harm, are back in power, held up as saviors.
They have had to face, and will face, more resist-
ance than the Russian agents in Poland.
■ Apparently the Russians have taken no chances
with the rebels. The revolution was better organ-
ised and with more advantages. It is centred in the
west at Gyor fßaab), which is only a few miles
from the Austrian border on the Vienna-Buda
highway, a town full of people who have known
the Western way of life —I stayed at an inn
kept by a former denizen of Erskine-street,
Sydney, last time l was there. In the south
its centre is Szged, at the Yugoslav border, a very
awkward place to have revolution and blood-
shed in just now. Further west in the south is
another stir-up at Pecs. All these are on main
communication-routes.
The rebels have given the new Government a
bad few days, but they have paid dearly in the
wholesale mowing-down of men, women and
children carried out with normal cold Russian
ruthlessness. Following this, the tactics of the
Nagy Administration have been typical. They
are seeking to beguile the dissidents by taking
into the Government leaders of the “freedom”
parties, some of whom will no doubt die of
heart-failure in the approved Moscow manner or
fall out windows when a little dizzy with
admiration for Messrs. Khrushchev and
Bulganin, whose agents have now besought their
followers to “stop killing. You have won.”
The United Nations, of course, has sum-
moned the Security Council to “deal” with
the situation. It will pass pious which
will be vetoed by the Russians, who, however,
must be thoroughly disquieted since the troubles
are spreading to Albania, where strikes against
Russian military control were reported. They
must have a real fear that the hand of the
guileful Tito, eager for a united Eastern
European defence-barrier against Russian
aggression, may be behind some of the resistance.
And they must be wondering whether, if a real
struggle develops, the Red Army can hold down
East Germany and Czechoslovakia without
precipitating a World War.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Cahills, the Sheahans, the Kellys,
Prove the influence of fellies
Irish-named in politics no idle furphy;
But beneath the greater power
Of another one we cower —
That jumped - up Irish potentato
Murphy.
• •
Reported that the ballot-papers for
the Sydney City Council election on
December 1 may be about 2ft. long by a
foot wide. They’ll come in handy after-
wards as wrapping-paper for the fruit-
barrows.
• •
The Queensland Industrial Court
granted an increase in wages under State
awards on the basis of the no-spuds
index; the N. S. Wales Industrial Court
threw in spuds-’n’-all. A crazy set-up, of
course, but not so crazy as it seems. Both
authorities went by the book, but the
Brisbane’s court’s briefing allows it to
use its discretion in deciding to what
extent it should apply the Statistician’s
index-numbers. The Sydney court has
no choice ; it is required by law to adjust
wages in accordance with the “C”-series
all-items index, which includes potatoes
and onions—and fares.
• •
Nominations for the Wentworth
(N.S.W.) by-election to fill the vacancy
caused by Eric Harrison’s departure for
London as High Commissioner close
on November 22. Polling - day is
December 8.
• •
South Australia is once again deciding
whether or not to go to the dogs. Close
on 30 years ago a greyhound-racing com-
pany was formed in Adelaide, but was
unable to get permission to operate. Since
then several attempts have been made to
get permissive bills through Parliament,
but all have failed. The latest effort is a
private member’s bill to legalise tin-hares.
Playford is against it, but it was intro-
duced by a Lib. and voting will be on
non-party lines.
• •
Evatt minor, who with Sydney Univer-
sity lecturer Buckley and an unnamed
“third man,” is undertaking a self-
imposed pilgrimage to Cyprus, intends to
let the Cypriots know that Australians are
“with them” in their struggle. What
Australians does Clive speak for? His
party has expelled him, and the people
of Hurstville, who returned him as a
"Labor” man, have expressed no opinion
on Cyprus. His fellow-traveller Buckley,
who has decided that Britain should get
out of Cyprus, says “It’s better to get out
rather than wait and be picked out.”
Clive hasn’t lived up to that principle.
He stayed in the Australian-Russian Asso-
ciation until the A.L.P. told him to get
out or else. He stayed in the N. S. Wales
Cabinet until he was kicked out. He
stayed in the N. S. Wales “Labor” party
until he was kicked out. Wonder how
long he’ll stay in Cyprus?
• •
By 33 votes to 19 the central executive
of the Queensland A.L.P. has expelled
T. A. Foley, former Lands Minister, on
the grounds that it is “irreconcilably
opposed to corruption or misuse of office
by any elected member.” For a body
holding such views, the executive has
been rather tardy in taking action to
protect its good name—it’s over four
months since the royal commission found
Foley guilty of corrupt conduct.
• •
Despite the Q.C.E.’s lofty-sounding
explanations Foley’s expulsion seems to
be more a move in the faction-fight with
Gair than anything else.
• •
At the same meeting the executive
suspended H. R. Gardner, M.L.A. for
Rockhampton, whose offence was that
he had allegedly accused the executive of
“bulldozing its way through the three
weeks’ annual-leave issue.” Apparently
the boys are also irreconcilably opposed
to criticism.
0 0
External Affairs Minister Casey left
Sydney on October 23 bound for three
meetings—United Nations in New York,
Anzus in Washington and Colombo Plan
in Wellington. On his departure he
emphasised his belief in “close personal
relations between responsible persons in
various countries.” He also stressed that
international understanding could not be
promoted by public discussions alone,
with representatives speaking in the full
glare of press, radio and TV. Such talks
admitted of no subsequent compromise,
and meant that many speeches were aimed
more at propaganda than at reaching
agreement. The only good that had come
out of the Security Council discussions on
Suez had been the outcome primarily of
private talks, not of the public discussions.
• •
Attacking the Government for failing
to Iqalt the inflation disclosed by the latest
cost-of-living figures (including spuds),
the Doc. offered the old and often-
rejected panaceas once more. The creep-
ing inflation would continue, he said,
until prices are fairly fixed on an Australia-
THE LAW'S DELAYS
wide basis, profits limited in a just measure,
inadequate pensions reviewed, interest-rates
reduced throughout Australia, and a system
of capital-issues control reintroduced.
There was not one word about the
necessity for harder work or greater pro-
duction by all. “Control and strangle” is
apparently all “Labor” can think about.
• •
“In the ACT”: Migration figures for
animals for 1955-56 showed that monkeys
topped the list for “scientific” arrivals,
2600 having come for the Salk vaccine
programme. Migrants from Britain
numbered 125 cattle (54 Shorthorns, 30
Herefords, and other breeds in smaller
numbers), and there were 46 horses, 208
dogs and 23 cats. America contributed
48 cattle, and New Zealand sent 75 cattle,
334 horses, 4937 sheep, 69 dogs and 14
cats. Zoos and circuses imported 60
“zoological” animals for permanent
quarantine, and other arrivals included
78 queen-bees from U.S., Italy and New
Zealand, 109 small laboratory animals for
scientific purposes, and a large number
of aquarium fish. The “departures”
included 445 horses, 7611 cattle, 107,588
sheep, 34 goats, 503 dogs and cats, 82,394
head of poultry and 28,083 birds, fish and
zoological specimens. Most of the cattle
went from Queensland to the Philippines
for slaughter, and almost all the sheep
went from W.A. to Singapore for the
same purpose..
• •
Sydney’s first two drive-in theatres
were opened last week. Concurrently, an
appeal against the rejection of an appli-
cation for a drive-in licence for a site at
Dub bo was dismissed on the grounds
that the site did not comply with a Gov-
ernment regulation which forbade a
drive-in theatre to have an entrance
within a mile of a railway-crossing.
Alderman Ford, Mayor of Dubbo, in
commenting on the decision, said the
regulation had been altered only in the
last three weeks. “One wonders whether
this recently-introduced regulation was
not designed specifically to block one
drive-in application, rather than to
safeguard patrons of drive-ins every-
where.” The crossing in question is a
“seldom-used one on a road which is
not formed beyond the crossing.”
/ • •
Only in N. S. Wales has the Govern-
ment adopted a narrow restrictive policy
towards drive-in theatres. Only in
N. S. Wales have drive-in licences become
valuable assets to be traflicked-in at
fantastic prices. Surely the Cahills
realised at the beginning that restrictions
would lead to vested interests and rake-
offs and other nasty features?
• •
More Queensland “Labor” M.L.A.s
are expected to be put on the mat by
Bukowski and Co.
• •
N. S. Wales Housing Minister Landa,
introducing a bill to curb misleading
advertisements, mentioned a case where
ah article made in Australia carried a
tag which might lead a purchaser to think
it was made in America. “Some people
like to think that articles made outside
Australia are better than those made in
Australia,” he said. Later he told how
he had bought a pair of shoes, apparently
of a well-known brand, alleged to have
been made in U.S.A. He subsequently
found that USA was a town in Japan.
That old Nipponese trick has been known
for years, but J. J. Maloney, M.L.C.,
Minister for Labor and Industry, on
whose behalf Landa handled the bill in
the Assembly, isn’t likely to be
enthusiastic at his colleague’s tacit
admission that he is one of those who
“like to think that articles made outside
Australia are better than those made in
Australia.” And shoes, of all things!
Maloney is a former general-secretary of
the Boot Trade Employees’ Union.
• •
Greek is no longer Greek to Clive
Evatt; it’s publicity.
• •
It’s still illegal to advertise a foreign
lottery in N. S. Wales or to sell tickets
in one. “Foreign” in this case means
one having its headquarters outside
N. S. Wales, e.g., Tatt.’s, the Golden
Casket or Drysdale’s Tasmanian Lottery.
Consolidated Press, prosecuted for having
published an ad. for the Drysdale flutter,
pleaded Section 92 of the Constitution,
which provides that trade and commerce
between the States shall be free. The
High Court dismissed the plea, saying
that a lottery was not trade and com-
merce, but “was in the nature of
gambling.” Perhaps Mr. Tallentire,
director of the N. S. Wales State Lottery,
will now stop referring to his. overgrown
money-extractor as an “investment.”
“Emtee”: After each election for the
Tasmanian House of Assembly it is
fashionable at poll-declarations for
successful candidates to attack the Hare-
Clark system which put them in. Never-
theless, succeeding Parliaments all run
their courses without any word of
electoral reform desecrating the contented
air of the House. It’s the same with the
Hobart Show. Every southern Tasmanian
would bet his last cracker on Show week
being wet and cold. But no one
considers changing the date of the show.
• •
Writing in the Melbourne “Age,”
Deputy - Opposition - Leader Calw e 11
admitted regretfully that there was little
prospect of the Menzies Government
being defeated in the Senate, as the Anti-
Communist “Labor” party would keep
it in power. This produced a letter from
Senator McManus, the new Anti-
Communist Senator, pointing out that the
Government would be defeated if all
members of the two Opposition parties
voted together. He went on to say that
in the Budget debate only 18 out of 28
Evatt “Labor” Senators voted and that
on the motion of protest against defence
dismissals only 22 out of 28 voted. Two
“Labor” Senators had been absent
through illness, but Evatt had not sought
pairs for them. McManus said that he
himself had been present at every divi-
sion and had voted against the Govern-
ment every time. If Evatt’s Senators
“would do the same the Government
would be beaten.”
• •
State mines in Queensland lost £257,621
last year. Most of this was accounted
for by the three coalmines —Collinsville,
£143,101; Styx River, £13,104; Mt.
Mulligan, £42,414. The Bowen coke-
works lost £45,321 and the tin-treatment
plant at Irvinebank £13,681.
• •
Hungarians rose and gave the Reds a
trouncing;
Meanwhile in New South Wales the
Cheques are bouncing.


S ocie ty
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
r r i HE energetic sisterhood responsible
for the anniversary-tea at our
church stared in horror at the snowy
pyramid decorating a dinner-plate. “Miss
Blank is very sorry, but she never eats
potatoes,” murmured our table-clearer
apologetically. A hasty conference, a
unanimous verdict, and the rejected spud
rejoined the all-too-short stockpile for the
second sitting.—“Vincit.”
❖ ❖ +♦♦
“Cash Count”: A chap went into one
of our Melbourne suburban branches to
draw money on an account he kept at
another branch of the bank. Told he
would need to be identified, he whipped
out his false teeth, and displayed his full
name embossed across the plate. Paid
on the spot.
“D.R.” : There’s a house on Queens-
land’s Gold Coast called “Chez Nous.”
The name of the one next door is “Chez
When.”
♦»♦ *** ♦!♦
“McKim”: Caught cadging in the
main street of a northern N.S.W. town, a
character said he was merely following
the Biblical injunction to “Ask and
receive.” He received all right—six
months.
♦♦♦ ♦:♦ ❖
“Mugga Way”: The Weather Bureau
decided as a result of “climatological
comparisons” that there was a good
chance of Melbourne Olympic weather
“You pay as you look for the next three years, dear."
“being similar to that of the Berlin, Lon-
don and Helsinki Games.” Anyone know-
ing Melbourne weather in November (or
any other month) will agree that there is
“a very small chance of meeting extremes
of heat,” and everybody will be gratified
to learn officially that weather conditions
are unlikely to prevent the setting of a
number of new records. A well-equipped
spectator for the Games on any day will
wear sunglasses, panama, sandals, fur-
coat, wind-breaker, muffler and ear-muffs,
and will carry one thermos full of iced
tea and one of boiling coffee, together
with such other refreshments as climato-
logical observations suggest. If an
umbrella and a mackintosh can be added,
everything should be set for what even
the bureau acknowledges, in its 54-page
booklet on the subject, as “the abnor-
mality of Melbourne weather.”
♦+♦ +£♦ *
“Yair” r When nylon pound-notes are
made, as someone says they will be, wives
will naturally ask for more because they
ladder so easily.
* *
“Counter”: Nominate “operation”
as a word as overworked as “structure”
(B. 17/10/’56). During the war years,
“operation” applied to a large-scale
action. Now when the boy-scouts hold a
bottle-drive, it becomes “Operation
Empties.” Our electrical dealer sent
around a pamphlet advertising “Opera-
tion Trade-in.” I suppose when they’re,
wheeling your sheet-draped body along
the hospital corridor, you’re on the way
to “Operation Operation.” The only
fitting use of the word I’ve noticed lately
is the Victorian R.S.L.’s appeal for
£250,000 to “accommodate and care for
aged or needy war-nurses and war-
veterans” —“Operation Gratitude.”
♦i» »>
“Doormat”: At one of our Rotary
lunches the “sergeant-at-arms” pounced
on and fined a member for taking John
Landy with him to visit a factory where
all sorts of clothes are mass-produced—
it was feared that Landy might have got
a stitch on the eve of the Games.
* ♦> ❖
“True”: When a witness at Casterton
(Vic.) court swore “to tell the truth,
the whole truth, and anything but the
truth,” the Clerk of Courts insisted on the
oath in conventional, less meticulous
form.
♦♦♦ ♦> ❖
“Narumee”: Inn-signs in Britain are
moving with the times ; there is “The
Flying Saucer” in Kent, with space-
gremlins peering from portholes, and
“The Jolly Minister” in Yorkshire, an
equestrian portrait of the Minister for
Agriculture and Fisheries, Mr. Heathcote-
Amqry, fittingly clad in a city suit, hold-
ing a furled umbrella in lieu of whip, and
brandishing a bowler-hat aloft. Isn’t it
time pubs here were rid of those dreary
facades inscribed “McS will’s Hotel”?
Give our culture a fillip by having artists
design appropriate signboards for topical
names: “The Bob’s Mob,” “The Pothole
and Soft Edge,” “The Parking Dilemma,”
“The Disgruntled Migrant,” “The Whinge
and Wharfie,” “The Up in Arms,” “The
Bert and Bristle,” and, of course, “The
Looker’s Lair.”
»+♦
“Sherlock”: The draughtsman’s micro-
scopic writing (B. 10/10/’56) reminds me
of an old brother of mine who attributed
his keen eyesight to having always
worked, as a detail-draughtsman, in a poor
light. But Premier John Robertson could
tie him up. Surveyor-General Twynam
received from bluff John a long report
to be written-out in copperplate for read-
ing in the House. My brother was given
the job. The writing was as rugged as
John’s speech, but after much puzzlement
and with the help of all his colleagues, my
brother worked it all out, all but one
word. Mr. Twynam held it upside-down,
sideways and at arm’s length without
success. “I’ll take it over to Sir John,” he
said. Believe it or not, Sir John didn’t
know, himself. After much cogitation he
“Are you sure this is the right place?"
gave his instructions: “If it’s one of my
words it’s a bloody good one ; make a
tracing of it and put it in.” Which was
done. No doubt a number of people
boggled over the strange hieroglyphic
later on.
❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: What’s old in new men’s-
wear? Fellow who bought a grey brocade
waistcoat in Egypt 33 years ago decided
to have it altered to a modern style for a
family wedding. But the tailor to whom
he took it was dismayed: “You couldn’t
alter that! Why, it’s the very latest thing
in men’s fashions!”
♦> *> ***
“Actin’’: There are disturbing possi-
bilities in the British announcement that
a helicopter equipped for television trans-
mission broadcast pictures of Cambridge
to several TV monitors in a hotel in the
centre of the city. Nudist sunbathers will
just have to go underground.
*X* ❖ ❖
“Bo”: Celebration is an art-form
brought to its highest expression by
women. A friend’s wife in the bus homing
from town had the light of triumph
shining in her eye ; she had been to town
to “celebrate,” and had bought three
frocks. It seemed that for weeks she had
been going twice weekly to the dentist
and had just had the last of 31 fillings
fixed up, plus a scaling. So she simply
had to celebrate ... so will her spouse,
both cause and effect, with his cheque-
book.
* ❖
“Adieu”: When one of our heavier
members sat on a chair and it collapsed
the chiefs-of-staff called it sabotage and
levied sixpence-a-head on the whole
Senior Form. The 30 members of the
guilty class voted to pay this harsh penalty
in pennies and halfpennies ; they covered
the master’s desk. He Was momentarily
stunned; he laughed weakly, then a
chalk-box, half-filled by one of our
ratbags, “fell” to the floor. Declaring the
joke over, the honorable master said
the copper must be silver by lunch-time
or else. The shopkeeper who provided
most of the coppers was not amused at
having to check them back, but you can’t
please everyone.
♦J* ❖ *♦♦
“Clerk’s Fee”: “Geep’s” account (B.
17/10/’56) of unwanted files recalls the
days when the late C. J. Dashwood, K.C.,
was Crown Solicitor, and the solicitors
on his staff shared one large room. In
the corner behind Micawber’s chair was
a large locked tin trunk. When the legal
opinion sought by some Government
department presented difficulties, old
Micawber surreptitiously unlocked the
trunk, and, with a sigh of relief, deposited
in it the file, to slumber with other
insoluble problems. The trunk was nearly
full when the room was divided into four
small cubicles, separated by hollow
asbestos-sheeted partitions. When these
were halfway up, one night after the
others had left I helped the old man
empty his trunk. He stood on a chair and
dropped the files, as I passed them up,
into one of the half-finished partitions,
which the builder closed up next day.
That was 40 years ago, and I suppose
the Crown’s opinion wasn’t really needed,
anyway.
* ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: Palmerston North (N.Z.)
shops have been surprised by a sudden
demand for nylon stockings by 18-year-
old Army recruits from near-by Linton
Camp: “the cheapest nylons you have.”
As to size: “Anything that will fit a
shapely three-oh-three.” Seems that the
lads have discovered that nylons make
the best pullovers ,for protecting rifles
from dusty barrels and their custodians
from c.b. punishment.
*i* ❖
“Ardoyne”: Hobart’s criminal court,
where Professor Orr has been proceeding
against the University of Tasmania, must
surely hold the Australian record for con-
tinuous use as a court-of-law. The build-
ing was put up for use as a church in
1833 ; for the past 111 years, since 1845,
it has been a criminal court.
* » ❖
“D.J.G.”: As with “Young and Jack-
son’s” for Prince’s Bridge Hotel (B.
17 /10/’56), “Meet you at the G.P.0.”
means, in Melbourne parlance, on the
steps of the old post-office on the corner
of Bourke- and Elizabeth-street. Properly,
it’s the Elizabeth-street P.O. The real
G.P.O. is the best part of a mile away,
at the Spencer-street end of Bourke-
street. But nobody would make an
appointment to meet there on the out-
skirts of the city, in that drab, uninviting,
inhospitable building. The Elizabeth-
street P. 0., with its friendly grey stone-
work, broad steps and sheltering porti-
coes, has been a favored haunt of
loungers, shoppers, lovers and New
Year’s Eve revellers for generations.
* ♦:♦ *
Paragraphs on addressing g.p.s.
boys by their surnames only bring
home the problem that faces the press on
most Saturday afternoons, when I have
to follow G.P.S. sports for the evening
editions. With major teams in cricket or
football the Christian-names of the boys
are soon memorised by the reporters,
but in recent weekends devoted to schoo
athletics an afternoon of fifty to sixty
events has been common, winners being
notified as Smith, Jones or Brown.
Whether Tom, Dick or Harry is another
guess. Reporters therefore are forced to
use imaginary Christian-names, Munro
being automatically initialled as U,
Gable “C,” McKell “W,” and so on.
A fond parent having seen his off-
spring break some record during the day
must criticise editors when he sees
the evening paper that his son, e* „
House, has the initial L, for litue,
before his name.—“Rekab.”
ALWAYS WITH US
“Three drive-in theatres opened around
Sydney last week, and the P.M.G., Mr. David-
son, addressing a convention of commercial
broadcasters on television, said there would
be a place in every Australian home for the
radio-receiver.”
There’ll always he a place for radio,
There’ll always be a place for the
picture-show,
There’ll always be a place for television —
Everywhere, without intermission.
And wherever you go you’ll be hearing
voices,
And seeing things, and putting up with
noises,
And the voices and the noises and the
pictures and the jivin’
Will drive you out to a drive-in.
Oh, men may come and men may go,
But there’ll always be a place for radio,
And there’ll always be films to entertain
Where men may come and go insane.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A BRISBANE grocer labels his door-
way display: “Well-laid eggs, 3s. lid.
doz.”—“Rimutuka.”
❖ ♦♦+ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: TV already presents pro-
blems to parents in our Sydney suburb.
Our radio-shop gives free window-
displays nightly (amplifier under awning)
at which hordes of young fry stare until
as late as 10 p.m. Several bring boxes
to squat on. One seven-year-old, lugged
away in the middle of “The Air Adven-
tures of Jet Jackson,” put on a turn of
tantrums at the injustice of Mum letting
his not-much-older brother remain.
❖ *l* *X*
“E.P.M.”: What’s really behind the
cult of dark glasses? High-pressure sales-
manship by the craft of optometry plays
a big part, aided by fashion moguls, but
there seems to be more to it than that.
Could it be that, as a counter to the
utmost possible revealment of the form
divine, the owner thereof has unconsci-
ously harked back to the Oriental code by
which Arabian women veiled everything
but their eyes? Some form of purdah
seems essential to women, even if it must
be interpreted by contraries.
❖ *X* *X*
“C.P.G.”: During Victoria’s road-
safety campaign a transport-driver had
his truck ordered off the road for repairs.
He rang the depot for a towing-truck.
The chief mechanic arrived with the tow-
truck and began a heated argument as
to the cops’ knowledge of affairs
mechanical. The cops got a bit heated in
return and turned their attention to the
"Just your phone-number, beautiful."
tow-truck. Result: Another tow-truck
had to be called to tow towing-truck and
transport away.
*> ❖ ❖
“Ngaire”: Biggest barbecue ever held
in the Southern Hemisphere was staged
at Henderson, New Zealand’s North
Island fruit-growing and wine-making
district, by the Yugoslav community, with
"IT DOES say here they're entitled to ten-minutes' smoke-oh."
open-air dancing in national costume,
singing, donkey-rides and feasting. Two
hundred lambs, the same number of
chickens and 50 hams were barbecued,
with potatoes roasted in olive-oil, all to
raise funds towards a new R.S.A. hall.
♦> * ❖
“Observer’s”: I was sitting behind two
boys in a bus ;' one asked the other if
he had heard about an acquaintance in
trouble for taking a beaut, pocket-knife
from the display-counter of a big store.
The second lad knew about it; had been
there at the time. “Of course,” he said,
“Joe wasn’t really caught lifting the
knife. They only found that on him after
he had been copped getting a stone to
sharpen it with.”
<5
“Taka”: At a road-block set up at
Auckland, N.Z., to recapture an escaped
safe-blower a motorist drew up, singing
“I’ve got pigs, I’ve got horses, I’ve got
cows, I’ve got sheep, I’ve got all live-
stock.” The young constable was equal
to the occasion: “You’re all right, boy,
you just go on through. But don’t you
let me hear you sing T fooled you!”’
“Jock”: Initials of the manager of the
newly opened Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.)
branch of the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, Mr. Dechow, are L. S. D.
*X* * *x*
, “Ceg”: All right, Tony Baloni is the
world’s champion eater of gargantuan
meals (B. 17/10/’56), but I know of two
distinguished eaters who managed on pro-
bably less than “Zorok’s” wage. One,
who manipulated heavy levers in a rail-
way signal-box, got through the day’s
work on a couple of bananas, and main-
tained that one should never eat until the
m f 0 f Uth J W l ered .u Copio !! sly at ,h 0U S ht
of food , the other, who was shown on a
newsreel, favored a tumbler of sea-water,
some nice fresh seaweed and a raw hen-
egg Those two should have qualified for
X championship-belt of some sort-not
that they d have much to strap it round.
“Maitri”: The boys of a school with
Scottish traditions made the life of an
extremely wealthy neighbor a hell-on-
earth with their bagpipe-practice. He
complained to the school authorities and,
receiving no satisfaction, to the council,
and, faring no better,, consulted lawyer
after lawyer. Then a friend came along
with a suggestion; the rich neighbor
groaned like bagpipes himself, reached
for his cheque-book—and the school now
boasts a new soundproofed building
devoted solely to music-practice.
❖ ❖ *i*
“Doric”: One French custom I hope
never comes to Australia is the habit of
tipping theatre-ushers. . I was warned
before attending a Paris performance and
handed over 25 francs. I have been told
that the usher waits a few seconds if
nothing is forthcoming and then demands
her right in no uncertain terms —in
English if the language-barrier raises its
blushing head.
*> ❖ ❖
“M.C.M.”: When I was a credit-inter-
viewer a husband and wife ran true to
pattern until I asked “Occupation of
husband?” Wife blurted out “Cleaner.”
Husband jumped out of his chair, banged
on my desk with a fist like a ham and
shouted for all to hear, although my firm
prided themselves on privacy, “Blast you
to hell, woman, how many times do I have
to tell you I’m a scavenger? A scavenger,
a poor bloody scavenger!”
*> *j*
“Justin Thyme”: Sorry, “C.A.L.,” but
I have to correct you on “Battle Bridge”
(B. 10/10/’56). This bridge was at the
foot of Taverner’s Hill, Parramatta-road,
and is said to have derived its name from
the frequent fights among the teamsters
who camped there for the night in pre-
railway days. The old inn there was the
first reached from outside the city. The
overhead railway-bridge near Lewisham
was in those days an arched one, com-
monly called “The Viaduct.” As for
the site of Mungo Scott’s flourmill, its
only fights were junior cricket-matches on
a concrete pitch. At night time the area
was too badly lit for cards or two-up, and
in daytime was too visible to passing
train-passengers to offer the seclusion
favored by spinners. There were so-
called “pushes” from Newtown and
Leichhardt, but their battleground was
Annandale.
❖ ❖ *>
“Emtee”: When Hobart’s Australian-
Italian Club formed a choir the
staunchest internationalists might have
wondered at their handing the baton to a
Chinese conductor. But Father Wang
had trained for the priesthood in Rome,
speaks Italian like a native, and being
unable to return to Communist China
had been invited by his present Arch-
bishop to minister to Italian migrants
in Tasmania.
♦> +i* ***
“0.G.”: After I had licked three air-
mail stickers which refused to stick to my
letter, the smiling official at our Sydney
suburban post-office became helpful.
“You shouldn’t use those on top,” he
advised. “Take one from the bottom,
and you’ll be right.” “What’s the differ-
ence?” I asked. “Oh,
there’s no difference,” he
said, “but at night the
cockroaches climb on
the counter and eat the
gum off the top ones.”
“Bagot”: The lino, on
the counter of the ancient
W.A. country pub was
pitted with thousands of
tiny holes. I told Mine
Host that a new one was
overdue. “Yairs,” he
agreed, “it’s the flaming
cockroaches.” He took
me into the bar late that
night and switched the
light on myriads of
industrious ’roaches suck-
ing liquid joy from the
grog - soaked counter -
covering.
❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: I was talk-
ing to a teenager when
two passing girls flashed
him happy smiles.
“Gee!” he exclaimed.
“Wonder what they
want? I’ve been out
with them both, and they
are only a couple of
plats.” “And what do you mean by
‘plats’?” I inquired. “Plats,” he repeated.
“Platonic lovers, of course.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Muskeen”: About those phonetic-
spelling alterations (B. 3/10/’56): Why
not substitute “uv” for “of” and “i” for
“ay” in order to conform with prevailing
Australian pronunciation. The charm of
our literature would be greatly enhanced,
as exampled in the following couplet:
Hi! Hi! Farmer Gri,
Brin a nuver lode uv hi..
However, if “c” is to be eliminated in
favor of “s,” how do we go with words
like “chicken”? My girl-friend Seselia
would be greatly shagrined if I were to
greet her with “How’s my little shickerdee
ter nite?”
❖ ❖ *l*
“Uramao”: The first visit of Apostolic
Delegate Carboni to New Zealand has
been a memorable one ; but it did not
bring forth from the North Maoris such
picturesque phraseology as greeted
Apostolic Delegate Ceretti many years
ago. At that great gathering of natives
the chief spokesman referred to the
Apostolic Delegate as “the eye of the
Pope,” and concluded: “Remain with us,
O Father ; and if there are any holes in
the fences of our souls you’re the one to
mend them.”
+s♦ >t*
“Metralia”: I hear Sydney’s Palladium
is rehearsing a ballet, each member to
weigh not less than 15 stone. “The .
Good-Humored Ladies”?
+ji
“P.C.M.”: If there is no reference to
the Revolution in Paris now, there was
in 1919. I was shown through a museum,
somewhere near the Place de la Concorde,
wherein was displayed the first blade of
the original guillotine, with a label stating
that it had severed 2642 heads before Jt
became blunt and was replaced.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Simon”: On my way to work I pass
a vacant lot in front of a house with half
a hundred red-and-grey granite tomb-
stones set up on display. They never
seem to be fewer, which may be because
of cremation. They are priced at £25
or £3O each, and that they are not stolen
must be on account of sentimental
feelings of burglars ; a respectable person
would hardly elect to lie under a stolen
stone.
THE EVER-PRESENT PROBLEM
Should we yield to requests
That we ban future tests
Of all weapons of nuclear fission ?
And to old method cling,
Letting murderer swing,
Or demand for it swift abolition ?
Simple problems like these
May be settled with ease —
Perhaps even sans some crusade, eh ? —•
But there’s one you will find
Is a far tougher kind.
It is this: Can you hang out till
pay-day ?
Very blithely you start
Off your pay-week, and part
With your pelf with a carefree abandon,
For your mind holds no dread
Of the days well ahead,
Or the probable mess you will land in.
There are beers with the boys
And the usual joys;
Then it comes —and oh! is it a grey
day !
The insidious thought
That will get you distraught:
Can you possibly hang out till
pay-day ?
You have failed to allow
For some items, somehow —-
That haircut, some bills, your dry-
cleaning —
And before you know what
You have gone through the lot.
Despairing, you then begin gleaning
Old pocket, old “plant”;
But the yield’s all too scant.
Well past your financial heyday,
You ponder with gloom,
As the bust follows boom :
How the hell can you hang out till
pay-day ?
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
MOVIE PLOT
The prosecution-witness fears the gang
Who trail his car and trap him near tne
docks ;
From shoulder-holsters gats are pulled —
Bang! Bang!
Witness will shortly go into the box.
ZAKE.


For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
mmwm
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Walter Russell Crocker, who succeeds
Sir Douglas Copland (resigned to form
the new Australian Administrative Staff
College) as High Commissioner for
Canada, represented Australia in the same
capacity in India from 1952 until last year,
when he became Ambassador in Indo-
nesia. Now 54, he’s from Parnaroo (S.A.),
was educated at Adelaide University,
Oxford and Stanford (California), and
joined the Colonial Service in Nigeria in
1930, transferring a few years later to
the League of Nations and 1.L.0. A
lieutenant-colonel in War II (Croix de
Guerre and Ordre du Lion, Belg.), he was
farming at Parnaroo for a time after the
war, then joined U.N., was chief of the
African Secretariat, and left to become
Professor of International Relations at
the National University, Canberra.
9 9
Passed through Sydney on his way to
the U.K. on leave, Kenneth W. Simmonds,
M.L.C. of Nyasaland, and Financial
Secretary to the Protectorate Government.
Born in Scotland and educated at Cam-
bridge, Simmonds has been in Africa for
21 years, and in Nyasaland for the past
five. He was a member of the fiscal com-
mission and the final conference which
led up to the federation of Nyasaland
with Northern and Southern Rhodesia.
• 9
One of the better-known personalities
in the oil industry, Eric Norman Wheeler
has just retired from Vacuum as its repre-
sentative on the Mornington Peninsula,
where retired Victorians sun themselves,
when there is any sun. Eric Wheeler is
one of the old hands in petrol. He began
in 1914, went off to the war for four years,
and was Vacuum rep. in Wellington,
Wanganui, Hobart, Mildura, and Warr-
nambool in the years up to Hitler’s exit.
He’s a well-known golfer and a lesser
punter on the Peninsula, but his chief
interest (and address, more or less) is now
Mornington Pier, filling his tank with —-
fish.
• •
Queensland radio-man Tom McGregor,
one of the Australian Federation of Com-
mercial Broadcasting Stations panel
covering the Olympic Games, was a
member of the State panel covering the
Queen’s visit, and knows a bit about
sport. Linked with his position as 4BC’s
programme-manager, he has controlled
the station’s sporting-service for almost
two decades, he was the first Queensland
commentator to use walkie-talkie equip-
ment to broadcast big golf and, on the
participating side, he has played grade-
cricket and Amateur League football.
Born at Falkirk, Scotland, Tom started
his travels early, and has covered half
the globe. Varied education includes
correspondence, Adelaide University, and
art-school. With the A.B.C. early in the
OLYMPIC GAMES BROADCASTS
piece, he was on the Perth panel for
Gloucester’s visit in 1934. Joined his
present station the following year and,
before War II (in which he wqs with the
R.A.A.F., flight-lieutenant), produced
plays and created radio-characters such
as “Inspector Castlemaine,” “Burton
Trent” and “Pat Noonan” who became
well known in radio-play-conscious house-
holds in Queensland. He has written
many short stories, has an aptitude for
radio documentaries, broadcasts a weekly
“Storyteller” session, and plays golf and
surfs when possible. His wife is “Jane
Young,” the musician, also well known
on Queensland radio.
• •
Bill Fitz Henry: Another “Mudgee
(N.S.W.) notable” (B. 24/10/’56) is John
Stevenson, chairman of the Mudgee
Legacy Contact Group, keen worker for
the Mudgee branch of the Arts Council
of Australia, and a mine of information
about the discovery and early history of
the place, particularly the explorer-
surveyors who first entered Cudgegong
Valley. A surveyor himself, and the son
of a surveyor (Bulletin poet R. D. Fitz-
Gerald served his articles with his father),
the specialised interest is, perhaps, natural.
Apparently John Stevenson is a keen man
with a theodolite. Up at Mudgee they tell
a tale of him, out bright and early one
morning in war-time New Guinea taking
a line, only to find his sight obscured by
a figure some distance away. He angrily
shouted and waved to the figure to move
out of the line. It was some little time
before he realised that the intruder was a
lone Jap soldier.
• •
Off to England on a British Council
scholarship next month, F. H. Hibberd,
Physics lecturer at New England Univer-
sity. An honors graduate in Science from
the Westralian University in 1945, he
joined the staff of Sydney Uni. Physics
Department the following year, collected
a Master’s degree there for a study of
“some effects associated with thermionic
emission from incandescent filaments,”
and went to the tablelands university
some three years back.
At Armidale, apart from teaching, he’s
been investigating the ionosphere, an
electrically-conducting region of the
upper atmosphere some 60 miles above
the earth. From a high-powered radio-
transmitter in the university grounds,
radio waves are sent into the ionosphere
and the effects are then observed by study-
ing at Katoomba (N.S.W.) a second wave
transmitted from Brisbane by the
P.M.G.’s Department and reflected above
Armidale.
F.H. (who’s the third New England
lecturer to receive a British Council
scholarship within the past four years:
others are P. E. H. Barratt, senior lec-
turer in Psychology, and R. A. Smith,
senior lecturer in Physics), will go into
these high and electric matters further at
Cambridge’s Cavendish Laboratory,
where he’ll work with J. A. Ratcliffe,
F.R.S., one of the world’s leading authori-
ties on ionospheric research, and at the
D.S.I.R. Radio Research Station at
Slough.
• •
Rotary district-governor for N.Z.’s
40th district (which takes in all the South
Island) for 1957-58 will be Malcolm
Leadbetter, rector of Waitaki 8.H.5.,
Oamaru. A Victoria University College
M.A., he had a fine sporting career
(Rugby Union and track) and was a staff-
officer, reaching the rank of lieutenant-
colonel, in War 11. Served for a short
time with Australians in New Guinea.
• •
Home after 17 months abroad, Harold
Thomas Stitfold, former Under-Secretary
of the Westralian Health Department and
ex-chairman of the Royal Perth Hospital
Board. Seconded to the Commonwealth
as Deputy-Director of Manpower during
War 11, he’s held down a number of
senior executive jobs in the W.A. Public
Service. His trip, a fact-finding expedi-
tion, took in most of the leading London
hospitals, as well as one of 1400 beds in
Stockholm, in which attendants negoti-
ated .long corridors on kids’ scooters, and
food was carried to patients on small
electric-trains. His opinion agrees with
that of most Australians who have had
professional experience of hospitals here
and elsewhere—that 600 beds should be
the limit for any hospital.
• ®
“Jac”: Mention of Ulex Ewart (B. 17/10/’56)
stirred 13-year-old memories of awe-struck
O.R.s, mostly Darwin-singed, posted as the
working corps of the R.A.A.F. Staff School
(forerunner of the College) founded in 1943 in
an arcadian setting at Mt. Martha (Vic.). None
of us had previously encountered such a con-
centration of “scrambled eggs,” and for sheer
intensity of Air Force brass it would have been
a target second* to none for the Nips. The
Directorate comprised: Air-Vice-Marshal Bill
Anderson as Commandant, Ulex Ewart (then
Group-Captain) as 2/i.c., and Gerald Packer,
Ron Fleming and Ken Ranger (all Groupers).
The junior boy of the brains-trust was Wing-
Commander Tommy White (now Sir Thomas),
who subsequently out-ranked them all as
Minister for Air and who recently completed his
term as High Commissioner in the U.K. Among
the visiting lecturers I recall Air-Vice-Marshals
Bostock (currently M.H.R. for Indi, Vic.) and
McNamara. Familiarity with “strength” of this
kind for a few months meant that the odd bods
about the place were quite blase concerning even
the visits of the Chief of the Air Staft, Air-
Marshal (now Sir) George Jones.
Some of the R.A.A.F.’s “aces” passed through
the school: names which come to mind include
Dave Vernon, of Catalina fame, Bruce Rose
(who flew with one more leg than Douglas
Bader, but was no less an example of having
what it takes), Ross Little, Purvis, Isaacs,
Douglas, and Dave Colquhoun, the last-flamed
now Group-Captain at Home Command H.Q.
The late Air-Commodore Harry Cobby, whose
George Medal award for the rescue incident, at
Townsville came through while he was at Mt.
Martha, succeeded A.-V.-M. Anderson just
before 1 was shipped off to less idyllic parts.
• •
Harry Hey, chairman and managing-
director of Electrolytic Zinc since 1952,
has been associated with that concern
since 1917. Originally from Yorkshire,
England, he had some of his education
there, some at Victoria University
ZINC, LEAD, COPPER
College, New Zealand, and a great deal
of it in the field. President of the
Australian Institute of Mining and
Metalluigy, 1943, 1944 and 1949,
A.I.M.M. Medallist, 1951, president of
the Fifth Empire Mining Conference in
1953 and Kernot Medallist last year.
Relaxation—golf.
• •
From truck to concert-platform sum-
marises the career of 24-year-old Waver-
ney Ford, bass-baritone, and first Westra-
lian to secure a contract with the Eliza-
bethan Theatre Trust Opera Company.
The engagement, dating from October 14,
enabled him to leave his truck-driver’s
job and concentrate on singing. Winning-
posts on the way have been the vocal
section of the A.B.C. Talent Quest last
year, appearance as a finalist in the A.B.C.
concerto and vocal competitions this year,
and the men’s championship and bass
solo in the recent Westralian Musical
Festival. The engagement resulted from
two auditions before leaders of the Eliza-
bethan Trust Opera Company during its
Mozart season in September.
FRANK MUNRO, general-manager of
Anthony Hordern’s. As noted on this
page at the time, he succeeded J. W.
Cameron in September this year.
T. A. G. Hurigerford, editor of
Australian Signpost, the Canberra Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers’ anthology of
short stories, critical and historical essays,
poetry and whatnot (sighted, with the
morning mail, on the Red Page desk),
looks tough: more like an Army com-
mando, or a handy middleweight pug,
one might say at first glance, than a cele-
brated author. First glances are notori-
ously misleading—writers come in all
shapes and sizes—but Hungerford has
been a commando and, one suspects, he’s
still tough physically ; and a certain pug-
nacity lingers in his prose and conversa-
tion. Guest-speaker at a literary dinner
at Sydney University some little time
back, he spoke on literary censorship with
a few picturesque examples. Speeches at
such entertainments are treated rather
like wine; the discriminating diners lean
back, sample them, approve them or
ignore them. There is no excitement
either way. Into this atmosphere Tom’s
words dropped like boulders. There was
a moment or two of surprised silence,
and then his audience began to enjoy it,
expressing pleasure almost rowdily. His
Ridge and the River, which became an
Australian best-seller, put him into the
“celebrated” class immediately.
• •
Into the Silence:
At 61, in the Repatriation General Hospital,
Springbank (S.A.),- William Valentine Leach,
since 1949 superintendent of S.A. primary-
schools and supervisor of N.T. schools. In
1921 he became assistant-master at Adelaide
High, in 1924 he was senior-master at Port
Pirie High, in 1927 he was appointed an
inspector of schools (youngest ever to hold the
post in S.A.) and in 1945 rose to assistant-
superintendent of primary-schools. Wounded in
action in World War I.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), Dr. Raymond Kirk,
M.R.C.P., F.R.A.C.P., chairman of staft at
Dunedin Hospital. Sailed with the first echelon
in early War II as 20th Bn. M. 0., saw service
in Egypt, Greece and Italy, and favorably
known to a wider circle of medical men for the
manner in which he coped with an epidemic ot
infectious hepatitis at Alamein.
At Cheltenham (Eng.), former Australian
musical-comedy artist Grace Johnstone, who
starred for many years in Drury Lane pro-
ductions and was well and affectionately known
to War I Diggers as “Johnnie” at the Aldwych
Hut in the Strand.
In Brisbane, at 81, B. H. Krone, first Head of
Bundaberg State High School. He was a teacher
with Queensland’s Department of Public Instruc-
tion for 50 years.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 87, Robert Adam
Horne, who opened the Bristol Piano Co. at
Christchurch 53 years ago.
In Melbourne, at 84, Sydney Owen Manner-
ing, one of Melbourne’s leading singing-teachers
for many years. Born in England, he settled m
Melbourne in 1920. He appeared in musical-
comedy with such stars as Billie Burke ana
Maude Fane.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 64, Angus
McLagan, M.P. for Riccarton; Minister for
Manpower, and Peter Fraser’s right-hand man,
during War II (earlier, Minister for Employ
ment, Labor, Mines and Immigration), and ms
president of the New Zealand Federation
Labor. Son of a Scotch miner, he was himseu
a miner at the age of 14.


* *
[r ; S all right, i^/RXIB }
lit PAy.*
V .
A/0, / y M SLR 6 you
PA(P OAST TlM£ .
('LL Pl\ IT.
\\ .
no, ( ; m CERTAIN rr
WAS you PA<P LAST TfM£.
f R£MgMß£R* you HAP
//
TO CHAMOg A NQTO,
*
<a, THAT WAS LAST
Wg£K , No, Joan ; (T IS
,wy Tu&tsi 4 /y
,
/% « WAS y<?o who 'Paip
L-AST. { B£m£M3£(Z TtiS
cotioocroQ was rup£ secAvgs
\ you TOOK. So LONG TO fWP ~
VU MON^y.
L f?£M£Mo£fl do u>, t.AP(tS
—you Gcftti PAtp , Abu), wilo
you alu>lu Al£ 'To SHour
r°zy°o?%.


ABORIGINALITIES
MATTIE is a solid, old-fashioned
farmer, but a recent reading-up of
genetics has led him to some confusing
conclusions on inbreeding: When I com-
plimented him on the sprightliness pf a
recent foal he replied in all earnest, “Aw,
I’ll probably have to hit it on the head-
it’s sired by its own father.” —“Cloudy.”
* * * *
“Emlyn”: Grandpa, aged 80, who can
still go around the golf-course in a stroke
for every year of his life, and who thinks
nothing of felling a tree on his property
himself and splitting it up for firewood,
recently got a present from one of his
considerate sons in the city—a gadget for
“The paper says it'll be cool and cloudy, with showers."
picking-up golf-balls to save him from
stooping.
* * * *
“Bass”: Weather has a habit of confus-
ing even meteorologists who seek to
harness it with unalterable laws. The
cyclone that swept the north-west of
W.A. last February was a case in point.
Cyclones in the Northern Hemisphere
sometimes describe a loop to the left,
while those in the Southern Hemisphere
do a right-hand loop ; in both cases the
blow is said to have moved “cyclonically.
This movement is dictated by barometric
situations which are apparently so fixed
in operation that one authority has stated
that a cyclone can’t loop anti-cyclonically,
because it’s impossible for the necessary
conditions to occur. Now a W.A. scien-
tist who plotted the course of the Febru-
ary blow has found that it did loop to the
left. Apparently the impossible can
happen —with weather.
* # * *
Old Stoodley, who used prac-
tically to own our small country town
as well as his small property a few miles
down the main road, also owned the first
and only car in the district. Mechanics
was a sealed book to him, nor did the
town boast a garage, so that when the
brakes on Stoodley’s high-slung model
failed completely he solved the problem
of opening and shutting gates on the
place by always carrying a blackboy.
The blackboy would jump out, open the
gate while Stoodley circled round and
straightened for the run at the gate, then
close it, race madly after the car and leap
aboard before the old man could change
into a higher gear. But in the township
the blackboy could not be entrusted with
the intricacies of shopping. Stoodley
would therefore slow-down as much as
possible, cruise past the butcher’s roaring
his order across the street and repeat
the process as he passed the general-
store. Then he’d drive on out of town
till he reached a place where he could
turn safely, and drive back again along
the main street. Meanwhile the shop-
keepers would have hurriedly made-up his
order, and, running out into the street,
would heave the parcels aboard as
Stoodley cruised past. There were a few
breakages at first, but with practice the
throwers became expert, and accounts
were later settled ,by mail with no extra
charge for the mobile delivery-service.
* * * *
“Bunty”: My five-year-old nephew has
refused to eat sausages since he came
back to town after visiting a dairyfarm ;
he had never thought they might have
feelings, he said, until he saw the live
sausages hanging from the cow.
* * * *
“Postie”: Listened to a radio-
adaptation of The High and the
Mighty to see how the script-writer
dealt with the situation when the No. 1
engine caught fire. It was a let-down.
The captain merely said, “Put the
extinguisher on her, Dan.” In the book
the captain said, “Pull the bottle on the
b , Dan.”
* * * *
“Mrs. Fitz” (Canada): I hope I’m not
too late for this discussion on the first
use of camels in Australia. My maternal
grandfather, George Telford Weale, who
went to Queensland somewhere between
1840 and 1850 as a surveyor, journeyed
by camel to central Queensland to survey
that territory. He named Camooweal
after himself and the camels, and
Georgina River for one of his daughters.
We have been in Montreal for 31 years
and, thanks to a friend in Brisbane, have
not missed one copy of The Bulletin.
A record, perhaps?
* * * *
“Maitri”: Lately our cat was missing
for a whole week, and returned on the
morning when the Salvation Army man
called for the monthly collection of news-
papers, etc. He makes a fuss of Puss
every time he comes, so we poured into
“I hate these exhibitionists."
his sympathetic ear the tale of P,’s
truancy. “Only away for a week!
exclaimed the Blood-and-Fire expert.
“That’s nothing! My fellow went off for
a month!” We cheered up: if a cat with
an S.A. background can flutter off for
weeks, ours can’t be so bad, after all.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Mangrove-clothed Long
Island, in central Torres Strait, is the
breeding-place of hordes of mosquitoes,
and may possibly have been the locality
which the Spanish captain De Prado
named The Island of Cantharides when
he went through the strait 350 years ago.
It supplies long, straight mangrove-poles
for house-building, and we used to pull
in there to cut firewood for the lugger ;
but the boys often had to protect them-
selves from the vicious skeets by plastering
their bodies with mud. Further north,
three miles or so from the Papuan coast,
the marshy, low-lying island of Saibai was
another mosquito-rendezvous; they’d
even attack occupants of boats moored a
mile out, and special coconut-husk fires
had to be kept going in the villages. In the
Mekeo district of Papua the natives had
their own form of mosquito-net; one
of these, collected by Sir William Mac-
Gregor when he was Administrator of
New Guinea, is in the Brisbane Museum.
A bag 15ft. long by sft. wide, fashioned
from the gauzy-looking covering of the
coconut-palm, sewn together and closed
on three sides, leaving the fourth side
for entrance and exit, it was suspended
from the rafters of native houses by
cords, the lower edges resting on mats;
very stuffy and close, but apparently it
kept out the mossies. One old fellow I
knew on Darnley Island claimed to have
baffled mosquitoes by undressing in the
corner of the room (he was a native
policeman garbed in blue uniform), then
turning out his hurricane-lantern and
crawling quietly across the floor to the
opposite corner, where they couldn t see
him in the dark.
* * * *
“Bass”: An attempt is being made to
find a specimen of the noisy-scrub-bird
in W.A. This bird, first discovered by
Gould’s assistant, John Gilbert, in 1842,
is (or was) a ground-living species with
a very loud, sweet call which gave it its
specific name, clamosa, meaning noisy.
The generic name, Atrichornis, means
“without hair,” and refers to the fact
that the bird’s gape lacks the bristles
found in most birds. Since Gilbert s dis-
covery less than a score of specimens
have been taken, and no positive identifi-
cation has been made in W.A. for 50
years. That doesn’t prove it’s extinct,
but it makes it seem probable. A similar,
but slightly smaller, member of the genus
(Atrichornis rufescens ) still exists in
northern N.S.W., and another closely -
species, Atrichorms rut e see ns
jacksoni, haunts the Macpherson Range
country in Queensland.
* * * *
“O. K. Lee”: Not only birds have an
acute time-awareness. On the tick ot
6.30 each evening a green house-frog
used to make his appearance on a chair
directly beneath the hanging petrol-gas
lantern which lit the dining-room ot my
Torres Straits Island bungalow. He
came for the easy provender in the form
of falling insects with singed wings.
There were evenings when good natural
light made it unnecessary to light the
lamp, and failure to do so brought regu-
larly a peremptorily-croaked reminder
from my guest. And, in my present Mel-
bourne suburb, there is a stray tyke which
has adjusted perfectly to the 40-hour
week worked by the factory round the
comer. Every morning on the way to
work I pass him, a good half-hour before
the factory-hooter blows, waiting for the
workmen whom he has adopted from
Monday to Friday. On Saturday and
Sunday mornings, when the factory is
closed, he regularly appears on my door-
step at the precise minute he would report
at the factory were it working.
* * * *
“Old Opencut”: “Wester’s” world
cattle-population statistics (B. 10/10/’56)
omitted one astonishing set of figures:
Against Australia’s 15 million Britain, on
her tight-little-island farms, carries the
same as Canada —10 million head.
“Narracoo”: The U.S., with a cattle-
population of 97 million (B. 10/40/ 56),
runs a bad second to India. Roarfiing the
sub-continent are 200-million cattle, com-
prising a wondrous variety of breeds.
India’s publicity people vouch for the
figures.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Most birds like their mid-
day siesta during summer with notable
nonconformists among the very smalt
species. Magpie, thrush and butcher-bird
are at their brightest in the early morn-
ing and subdued round midday, whereas
blue-wrens, white-throated warblers
and the lovely scarlet-honeyeaters con-
tinue their pleasant songs and other
activities throughout the day. During
cold months big and little birds alike are,
at best, sluggish singers, mainly because
they have, to work harder to get enough
tucker.
* * * *
“Wa”: For a bird whose native call
is rhythmic, compact and tuneful,
nominate the grey butcher-bir on
formal occasions, Cracticus torquatu
Butch’s unvarying two-bar phrase, e
livered with musicianly precision, holds
surprises. Nature has endowed him with
a sense of musical pitch the keenness of
which has been denied to many ins>
mentalists and vocalists. IF human
rehearsals, like those of h s human
counterparts, are marred b> £ j
phony called “tuning-up. But^ y a^eb
rehearsing he cleans-up his piece at d =,
dead on the note.. Butch
knows when he is in tune, f rehears-
he strikes correct pitch hesopre
ing, gives his piece the final once over,
then preens himself for the day.
STATION CHILDREN
Down where the coolibahs mark the wind
Of an old bush creek, and the rushes bind
Its gentle banks, the children play
Through the golden haze of a winters
day.
Station children, free of school,
With a kelpie pup, by that quiet pool
Play with the quiet intent of youth,
When truth is fancy and fancy, truth.
Down where the water-weeds tall and
slim,
Like sentinels stand, by the water's brim,
They hide-and-seek by the old grey gum
To whom all birds and children come.
And Home is the red roofs stretching yvide
On the far plain’s face; whilst, the cross
astride
Its darkening face, is an old grey mill
That groans and twists to the wind'at will.
As it marks the wild ducks’ ebony flight,
In a shrill reproach from the face of night,
Leaving the shadows, ghostly grey,
To toll the knell of a lovely day ;
And the children to seek on an old bush-
A path that has felt through the ages
back
The beat of other childish feet
When play is ended and rest is sweet . . .
Leaving the trees to mark the way
Of a winding stream* where the shadows
play
Their own grey game of hide-and-seek,
O’er the tranquil face of a twilit creek.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


'T'HE last three of the horde of Chinese
A who had once invaded our north-
Victorian goldmining town were Ah
Youk, Hardtimes and Little Jimmie.
Poor, harmless old relics they appeared
then, as they trotted along in their
Brown’s-cows style, though Hardtimes
was suspected of the murder of a police-
man in the Bendigo camp in the long
ago, and on his deathbed was third-
degreed regarding that unsolved crime.
But he “No saveed” to the end.
While Hardtimes fossicked, the others
worked a plot of veges and vines, and
Little Jimmie jog-trotted the produce
around the town in the familiar cane-
baskets on a shoulder-pole; a load to
make a strong man stagger. When he
finished that he substituted kero.-tins for
baskets and would spend half the night
liquid-manuring his cabbages.
Not since those days have I encountered
reference to the earhole’s use as a purse,
but Little Jimmie, as filthy as they come,
invariably dredged small change from
his ears ; and if we, kidlike, were ever
detected putting a coin in the mouth we
were rushed to a tap for a mouth-wash,
with the horrible suggestion that it might
have been in a Chow’s ear.
That was why Mum always boiled the
treys before putting them in .the
Christmas-duff.
Emjai,
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Our town has produced an
international footballer. He no longer
lives here—they don’t step straight from
country clubs to representative touring-
teams. But his doings on the field are
often reported in our paper, with photo-
graph—his wedding-photograph, with the
bride cut Out.
w : The only trouble with Unk
Whites Dead Heart horseman drawing
power for his electric-guitar from a bunch
of overhead wires (B. 11/7/’56) is that
those are telephone-wires— they carry
the wrong current for an electric-guitar
and, anyway, not enough of it. A circuit
would'go to' r Tarth *throSrti °the hcmc
Shocked, the animal would bolt possibly
injuring the rider or, worse, smashing the
guitar. b
♦ * * *
u- „ , , . , ,
Dolphin : My 23rd birthday was set
m a box-compartment of a speeding (?)
westrahan tram: present were me, a
;k lo °d abo and a dozen bottles of
ger. With the two glasses from rail-
ways mod con. overhead we tore into
e grog. When it was gone Darkie hauled
bottle of plonk from under his seat,
e party resumed. At some hour in the
° U u °? seat - My
un u? t n e deck * ; Plck 11
p later, 1 thought. But it wasn’t there
when I got up. “Did you take
my comb?” I growled. “No,
boss,” he replied, “but have a
lend of mine.” He held out my
comb. I was about to stack on
a turn when I recalled that my
birthday was being celebrated.
“A bit screwy,” I thought: “my
birthday, but I’m giving the
presents! ” I held my peace and
handed back the comb. And
somehow I’ve always felt that
that birthday gave me the most
pleasure.
* * *
“Sack”: Many canary-breeders
presume to teach Nature her job
by temporarily removing the
first eggs laid and substituting
marbles. The theory is that
the hen will sit on the first eggs
while laying the next, thus start-
ing the germination-process,
only to ruin everything by
letting the eggs grow cold
during the spells between laying.
Hence the marbles —when the
last egg is laid -the full clutch is
returned and the dummies
removed. A young acquaint-
ance, however, not believing
that a canary’s i.q. could be
low enough to permit her
mistaking a marble for her egg, carved
imitation eggs from balsa-wood, identical
in shape and size and painted in perfect
likeness. It took a very discerning eye to
detect the ring-ins. The canaries picked
’em first go and bunged them out of the
nest. Dashed, the idealist tried marbles.
They were accepted happily.
* * * *
“P.C.M.”: What State or colony is
“B. A. Ker” referring to when he says
that local-government by shire council
began in 1906 (B. 10/10/’s6>? The Gipps-
land (Vic.) shire in which I was born in
1896 was founded in 1878, and I am sure
there were others earlier in Victoria.
* * * *
“Cooroy”: Over 50 years ago as a
result of a politician’s promise of a rail-
way, the pis 6 hostelry at Jundah (Q.) was
renamed the Railway Hotel. The nearest
rail-facilities are still at Longreach, 146
miles further up the Thomson River.
* * * *
“In the N.T.”: An official survey is
now being made of the pearlshell beds in
northern Australian waters on the Con-
tinental Shelf, and which at some unspeci-
fied date will be the subject of adjudication
by the International Court. Primary
Industry Minister McMahon said it was
necessary to establish the condition of
the beds after years of pearling operations
by Australian and Jap fleets, and he
announced that the results of the survey
would provide a guide to future pearling
activities. The survey is being made by
the fisheries division of McMahon’s
department and the C.5.1.R.0., with a
diesel-driven auxiliary-ketch chartered
from Thursday Island for six months.
The master is a former R.A.A.F.
navigator, and most of the crew are Greek
sponge-divers who came to Australia for
pearling work,
* * * *
, ®" : '' ve seen stranger creatures
t,emg led around on leads (B
,2/ ? . A *! r ' m forrunal (N.S.WJ
psed t 0 lead a pet fox about. More amaz-
ing was the sight of a. chap leading a
young spotted native-cat down a Sydney
suburban street. He held the spitting,
snarling little fury on a cord tied to a
stick whip-fashion and was thus able to
keep the creature at a safe distance from
his legs. I don’t know how he had
managed to fasten the cord around the
cat’s neck. On a Sydney beach a little girl
asked me would I mind “Archie” while
she had a swim. She was an unconscion-
able while before returning to claim her
P et ’ durin 8 whic h time thousands of
P e °P le had a covert snigger at the
eccentric who was sitting on the sand
“He Worked right up from the bottom."
holding back a very small but very eager
tortoise by a light dog-leash. Still, I might
have been lucky. The naturalist Count
Langsdorff recorded that he saw Indian
children in a South American village lead-
ing a huge Brazilian spider around like a
lapdog with a piece of string tied around
its waist.
* * * *
“Leirum”: I once worked on a Charle-
ville (Q.) station when a youth was thrown
from his horse, some of his broken ribs
impinging on his lung. While crossing
a dry creek, the sulky in which the patient
was being rushed to town overturned,
precipitating the occupants into the rocky
bed. Strangely the patient’s breathing,
which had been agonising, eased. At the
hospital the doctor said the second
accident had, by dislodging the impinging
ribs from the lungs, staved off almost
certain death.
“Burrumbush”: Can’t agree with
“JByramine’s” method of throwing and
tying a wild beast (B. 26/9/’56). Once
you leave your horse and catch the beast’s
tail he will whip around and charge.
Then when he is off balance you heave
on the tail and down he comes. If he is
a long-horned piker and his horns miss
you by inches you really do heave. When
he hits the ground you grab his top leg
and hold it well off the ground, whether
by wrapping both arms around it or any
other way ; you then lift the bottom leg
to the top one and tie with your strap.
How “Byramine” can hold his down with
the tail between its legs and then tie its
two hind-legs together I can't work out.
Never forget that it can still get up and
charge even though its legs are tied
together. I have never seen the man who
can pull a strong beast down by the tail
on the ground if it spreads its hind-legs
and refuses to charge.
* * * *
“Harry L.”: In a very dry time I have
seen young sandalwood-trees ringbarked
by rabbits up to 4ft. from the ground.
And an old boundary-rider who used to
look after a rabbit-netting fence told me
he had seen a rabbit climb a near-by foot-
high anthill and jump the fence.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Does history record the name
of the imbecile who introduced starlings?
They don’t sing, you can’t eat them —even
the Mediterraneans who pot our native
birds would be insulted if you suggested
starling-pie—and they are lousy in every
sense of the word. As always, they have
become a springtime plague in the Sydney
suburb for which I am enrolled, nesting
wherever they can find a roof-cavity and
dropping their blasted lice all over the
place. It doesn’t moderate the rage of
one victim to reflect that “starling” is the
only known rhyme for “darling.” Even
contemporary poets, who make such
heavy weather of rhyming and scansion,
refuse to avail themselves of it.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A bullocky in New
Zealand’s early days who frequently
appeared in court for insobriety, etc.,
revenged himself on magistrates, court-
officials, police and Government-heads in
general by giving each of his bullocks
the name of some prominent gent, con-
nected with the enforcement of the law.
When passing through towns and where
officials most do congregate he addressed
his team luridly, and the magistrate, who
heard himself threatened with having his
liver cut out and his skin taken off him,
could allegedly do nothing, in view of
old Phil the Bullocky declaring he was.
speaking to his animals.
* * * *
“Moora”: With surface-water non-
existent, recently-sown pasture on “sand-
plain” country north of Perth is kept going
by bore-water lifted from 300 ft. by wind-
mills which have a vane-wheel 25ft. in
diameter. Any bigger wheels or a deeper
lift by wind in Australia?
KAPUNDA MORNING
Morning drains, between the hills,
The girdling dam of darkness dry,
And up beyond the eastern ridge
The dawn like sulphur floods the sky.
A palisade of bulrush stalks —
Lean spears before an ancient pass —- ■
Surrounds the silent ribbon pool
Like spikes around a sheet of glass.
The eastern light flung crashing up
In armfuls from behind the hills,
Too heady now for beak and bird,
Wakes tumbling hearts and reedy bills.
Up the winding patchwork creek
A morning breeze bends flag and stem,
And colors on the creek-bank run
Like magic down its ragged hem.
And there the blue crane, still as death,
Stands as the sun spears through the trees,
Where, lapped by wind, the water burns
In flames of opal round his knees.
And then, awakened by the sign,
His wings inarm that golden ray,
And like a rising cross he gives
His benediction to the day.
S.A.
COLIN THIELE.
SNAKES IN EDEN
"STATURE selected some Pacific islands
' to be the nearest things to Paradise
on this earth, but most of the best of
them have been spoiled by accidental or
deliberate introductions of an assortment
of pests.
On Lord Howe Island rats came ashore
from a stranded steamer and soon bred
to plague numbers. Not only did they
well-nigh ruin one of the island’s main
sources of income—the Kentia-palm-seed
crops—but by robbing nests they exter-
minated five species of beautiful and
harmless birds found nowhere else on
earth.
On other islands ship-rats cause
immense damage to the coconut-palms.
The little sensitive-plant, whose leaves
fold when touched, was introduced as a
garden curiosity to Samoa. Now every
gardener there has to spend half his time
hoeing out what has become a prolific
weed which grows again if the smallest
twig is missed.
Before Europeans introduced firearms,
smallpox, t.b., rum and opium, the Poly-
nesian inhabitants of the Marquesas group
of islands enjoyed what was undoubtedly
the easiest life on earth. Today, of a
population estimated to number at least
50,000 when Captain Porter, U.S.N.,
visited them in 1820, only a few hundred
survive.
On Nuka-Hiva, made famous by
Herman Melville in his book Typee —he
should have spelt it Taipi—life is now
made miserable by a tiny but vicious
species of sandfly, known locally as nono.
Apparently they were brought there
accidentally in larval form in a ship’s
water-cask.
Hawaii had no mosquitoes until about
a century ago. Their introduction is said
to have been the deliberate act of an
American sailing-ship skipper. He used
to have a high old time there with the
Polynesian girls. Then some stern
Puritan missionaries arrived and instituted
a regimen as strict as the “Blue Laws”
of Massachusetts.
Next time the captain called he found
a curfew keeping everyone at home after
sunset. The law was enforced by native
constables, made zealous because they
were rewarded with half of any fine
inflicted for breaches of the missionary
code.
The captain returned again a few
months later, this time bringing a cask
of water filled with mosquito-wrigglers.
According to the local legend, he put it
ashore with the remark: “One good turn
deserves another.”
Few human beings in history have
earned more curses than that Yankee
ship-master. I’ve directed a few at him
myself.
Ex-R.S.M.


Could you act as
Executor
without expert advice?
Complexities of estate administration, probate duties
and varying State taxation laws demand specialised
knowledge in executorship.
Many executors have found that by co-joining Union
Trustee as executor or trustee they can transfer the
burdens of estate management to experienced hands,'
and at a moderate cost that is often more than
justified by time and money saved through expert
knowledge of administration.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and ask for the booklet, “Important Facts
Concerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald, Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. 0. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT26
Business. Rollery. Ete.
C.-0.-l. and Shares
AFTER a fairly sustained
recovery, there has been a
tendency for share prices to
slacken. The wage-spiral menace
has raised its head in N.S.W.
again with a vengeance, and
trade-union irresponsibility is not
getting any better.
Wool prices have become
more uncertain as well.
The sharemarket is by no
means without its purple patches.
But selectivity is the keynote in
investment-buying at present.
Sometimes (as in the case of
Electrolytic Zinc) the market
almost fully anticipates favorable
company developments; in
others (such as Mauri Bros, and
Thomson) they are almost a
complete surprise.
But there continues to be a
sprinkling of such developments
right through the market. There
are also the occasional setbacks.
The worst of these appear to
have now occurred.
Reichhold Chemicals
TNVESTORS who took up the
-*• 288,018 10s. ords. which were
offered by Reichhold Chemical
Industries as recently as Feb-
ruary, 1955, at par have done
amazingly well. And share-
holders in Euston Chemical
Industries (formerly Euston
Lead) who in August, 1955,
accepted something like 62
Reichhold 10s. shares for every
100 Euston £1 shares have
made a good “save” on their
original investment.
Reichhold 10s. shares are now
365. in the sharemarket.
In 1939 Reichhold Chemicals
Inc. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., was
formed to manufacture, under
royalty and certain patent rights,
the products of Reichhold
Chemicals Inc., U.S.A. The
whole of the capital was sub-
scribed by the American co. in
association with the Colonial Gas
Association and A. C. Hatrick
Pty., Ltd. The Reichhold co. in
the U.S.A. is the world’s largest
manufacturer of synthetic resins,
and also makes chemical colors,
plasticisers and industrial
chemicals. The Australian co.
began manufacture of these
things at Botany (near Sydney)
in 1939.
On August 7, 1953, Reichhold
Chemical Industries (Aust.), Ltd.,
was formed and later acquired
control of all the shares in
Reichhold Chemicals, A. C.
Hatrick Pty., and A. C. Hatrick
(N.Z.), Ltd. The Hatrick com-
panies had for a long time been
distributors of Reichhold pro-
ducts and other industrial
chemicals.
The new public co. issued
908,978 10s. shares as considera-
tion for the takeover, 3004
directors’ qualifying shares, and
the public snapped-up 288,018.
That made paid capital £600,000
in 10s. ords. Since then 206,084
shares have been issued in
respect of the Euston Chemicals
purchase.
, Following flotation, consoli-
dated profit leapt from £162,871
to £248,035 in 1954-55. For the
1955-56 year profit has been
disclosed at £255,210.
After allowing for a 5 p.c. div.
on pref. shares in a subsidiary,
last year’s earnings were equal
to 35.6 p.c. on average ord.
capital, and a 15 p.c. div. was
paid, as against l\\ p.c. in the
preceding year.
The business is expanding
rapidly. The co.’s products are
used extensively in the manufac-
ture qf paints, varnishes and
lacquers, and have a wide appli-
cation in many other industries
—for instance, in the manufac-
ture of textiles, printing-inks,
paper, furniture plywood, rubber,
leather, brake-linings and waxes
and polishes.
In order to ease the strain
on finances a one-for-two issue
at par (to bring in £351,000) will
be made to those on the register
on Nov. 1. In addition, from a
revaluation-surplus of £355,796
arising from a reappraisement of
shares in subsidiaries, a bonus-
issue of one-for-two will also
be made to those registered at
the same date.
The two issues will have the
effect of doubling paid capital,
and carrying it up to £1,406,084.
It is hoped to pay 11 p.c. on
the new capital, and at 365. for
the shares, cum everything, the
prospective yield is a shade under
5 p.c.
Electrolytic Zinc
T>ROBABLY one of the biggest
capital reconstructions ever
to take place in Australia,
Electrolytic Zinc is forming a
new holding co., E.Z. Industries,
Ltd., which will offer three of
its 10s. ords. for each ss. ord.
or pref. in Electrolytic Zinc Co.
of Australasia, Ltd. If the pro-
posal goes through, paid capital
of the new co. will be £lB million,
compared with £3 million in the
present co.
The reconstruction, in effect,
will amount to a one-for-five
bonus-issue* and the co. will be
capitalised next to B.H.P. in size
and a million ahead of Australian
Paper Manufacturers, with
which, incidentally, Herbert
Gepp, who did much to establish
Electro. Zinc, was also associ-
ated.
E.Z. last term made a profit of
£2,832,949, an increase of
£411,182, and almost eqhal to
present capital. Large provisions
have been made annually for
depreciation and amortisation.
Div. last year was an all-round
65 p.c., compared with 55 p.c.
in the preceding year.
At present the ss. ords, are
selling at 665.
Bradford Cotton
MAINTENANCE of profit-
earning at around £470,000
after providing £41,682 addi-
tional tax was a pretty good
effort by Bradford Cotton Mills,
Ltd., last year. The usual
p.c. ord. div. called for £348,636 ;
prefs. took £9186 and employees’
shares £12,231.
Productivity increased during
the year ; so did sales.
The co. has spent £2,094,756
over the past five years without
asking shareholders for more
capital. In 1955-56 £550,000 was
spent on plant out of current
resources. At June 30 last plant
stood in the books at £5,194,908
(cost), less depreciation,
£2,210,382.
The plant is highly efficient,
and the co., says chairman Stan
Wreford, “is well equipped to
prosper in the months that lie
ahead.”
Bradford Cotton has had a
good record over many years. Its
capital of £3,045,431 (£153,104 in
prefs.) has not increased
appreciably since 1952.
At 40s. for the ords., the
yield of 6| p.c. looks as secure as
most things in the sharemarket.
The investment in Burlington
Mills is turning out rather better
than seemed likely a year ago.
Matea Forests, Ltd.
SEPARATED from Whaka-
tane Paper Mills, Ltd., in
1947, when Whakatane Board
Mills, Ltd., was set-up to manu-
facture woodpulp products,
Matea Forests has a block of
4.1,000 acres of Pinus radiata on
the southern side of the great
Kaingaroa State Forest in the
north island of New Zealand.
It is negotiating with the big
Tasman Pulp and Paper Co.,
Ltd., which is now manufactur-
ing newsprint at its £2O-million
plant at Kawerau, to take over
its plantations, as they adjoin
the “Murupara Working Circle”
of State forests which Tasman
is now exploiting, and which
embraces already about 200,000
acres of pine timber.
Matea directors, in their last
“He's been like this ever since they called in the
auditors at his office."
report, say that negotiations with
Tasman are still continuing.
Tasman has made an offer for
the Pukahunui block, and
“stockholders will be advised as
soon as there is anything to
report.” *
Prodding Firms into Export
[From Canberra]
Tl/iORE and more Australian
'■*•*•*■ secondary industries are
being incited by the Govern-
ment, through the Trade Depart-
ment, into investigating
possible export markets. The
drive, with adequate funds,
is being treated as urgent-
objective is an extra £2O-million-
worth of exports this year—and
its basis is realistic.
No big displays are going to
trade-fairs just for prestige. But
when good-quality Australian
products are available in ade-
quate quantities and at competi-
tive prices campaigns are
launched which achieve quite
remarkable results, whatever
some of the carping critics may
say. The drive is world-wide,
with a lot of concentration at
present on Asia, New Zealand
and South Africa. (At long last,
a good shipping-service is now
operating between Australia and
South Africa.)
We have now 25 young and
eager trade - commissioners
abroad, and more will be
appointed soon. On the home
front the department is going
through the list of manufacturers,
trade by trade, and prompting
hundreds of firms to help their
own interests and the nation’s
by going after overseas markets.
Admittedly, the departmental
officials are sometimes close to
despair. Acting-secretary Dr.
W. A. Westerman told a Sydney
gathering the other day that
when it was suggested to a
business that someone should
go overseas to probe markets
the trip was usually grabbed by
the managing-director instead o(
being given to the sales-manager.
“It’s amazing,” he said, “how
often the managing-directors
seem to think that much of the
export market is concentrated
around Los Angeles, or Miami,
or Paris.”
Markets are fair for primary
products, although the headache
of the dumping of U.S. sur-
pluses is always present.
Currently, vigorous but unavail-
ing protests are being made
against the American grab of
one-third of the Indonesian flour-
market and the presenting of
23-million bushels of wheat to
India. However, the real drive
is for manufactured exports,
including processed foods (Aus-
tralia is the world’s largest
exporter of canned meat and
fruits) and other products, includ-
ing, now, Australian-built cars.
Initial moves come both from
manufacturers and from the
trade-commissioner service.
If the trade people abroad
see a possible opening they tell
the department, which then
passes the news on to manu-
facturers. The market is
analysed, the source of its present
supplies assessed, the import-
licensing and tariff picture
summarised, wholesale and
retail demands set out, and
the names given of reputable
agents.
Sales campaigns are not
undertaken until there are the
goods available in plenty for the
buyers whose interest has been
excited. The department also
watches freight-rates, and when
necessary takes some action.
For example, until recently
Bradford wool-tops were getting
a freight-concession to Bombay
which was not available to Aus-
tralia. Representations by the
department to the shipping com-
panies resulted in extension of
the concession to this country,
a vital point in a highly com-
petitive market, and it now
remains to be seen whether it
will be justified by an additional
volume of exports to India.
It looks as if we will gain
about one-third of the wool-tops
market, in place of nothing
previously.
The department seems to agree
with the Tariff Board that, with
costs a vital factor in competitive
'exports, the Government should
grant higher depreciation allow-
ances and remove the payroll
tax, but it can’t comment openly,
of course, on Government
policy. It also urges some
manufacturers to contemplate
export at cost only, with the
idea that the larger turnover will
increase the profits within
Australia.
There is a good deal of satis-
faction in the fact that many
firms are now working double-
shifts, and finding it highly profit-
able to have their plant in longer
operation.


For Your
EUROPEAN TOUR
new and used cars for sale with
repurchase price guaranteed, or
rental at advantageous terms.
FAIRWAY MOTORS LTD.,
Southampton, England.
"1
CLOTHES
mm-mm
sgssssm
WA
:
■
mu
m i
\ML' /7/;i
; • . v /;; f/A
a. m.«
L. W' : '?
A-V*
; i
nfei
/•:
i*
'ill
H
' / '
KB®
Step out with confidence
Smartness IS admired
Stamina’s A-l De Luxe Sports Trousers win every time. They
win admiring glances, approving comments. They win favours
for you, and friends . . . because you look so very well groomed.
When buying, you will note the added improvements that are
making these attractive Stamina trousers the finest buy in
town . . . the American Top Waist; the Zipper Front that gives
you true neatness; the famous para-lined non-slip waistband;
the genuine, solid leather belt ...
All this, plus top class workmanship and the very finest materials
make these trousers easily your best buy.
ASK FOR
Stamina.
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
r rHE announcement of another
£5-million Government loan
on the same terms as the £ 10-
million issue of last June con-
tained no surprises for Maoriland
investors. The timing, the
amount and the terms were as
expected.
It is just as well for the success
of the loan that the amount
sought is small.
The June loan was over-
subscribed by £3.1 million, but
the stock quickly went to a
discount. In recent weeks the
Government has been buying its
own securities in the market in
order to bring yields down, but
they are still a little above the
iates offered for the new loan.
Higher Interest
The following table shows
what the three sections of the
June loan were yielding at
market prices on September 27
and how yields were reduced
over the next three weeks:
Yield, p.c. Yield, p.c.
Stock. Sept. 27. Oct. 18.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
41,15/6/159 4 11 1 4 9 3
41, 15/6/’6l 4 12 6 4 10 ■ 2
41, 15/6/’66-’67 4 14 6 4 13 7
Full subscription of the loan
now offered would bring the
Government’s total borrowing
this year to the substantial total
of £27.8 million—£lB.l million
from the domestic market, £4.7
million from the United States
Export-Import Bank and £5
million from London. In addi-
tion, £40.6 million of maturing
loans totalling £49.8 million has
been converted in the biggest
operation of the kind in N.Z.'s
history.
Undersubscription of two big
local-body loans has recently
emphasised the continued
pressure for higher interest-
rates. The underwriters in one
week were left with 50 p.c. of
a £565,000 Wellington City
Council loan and 80 p.c. of a
£150,000 Hutt County Council
loan.
The fact that most of the
applications received by the
Wellington City Council were for
the 12-year term at the higher
rate of 4| per cent, is an
indication of the importance
which investors are attaching to
interest-rates.
Pref. Shares
The trend to higher yields on
preference shares is confirmed by
new issues which are being made
at the recently permitted rate of
5J p.c., often with additional
participating rights.
One company, Northern
Roller Milling, recently found
that it had to raise its rate from
5 to 5£ p.c. to get full subscrip-
tion of a £125,000 issue. On the
other hand, J. Mercer Industries’
£50,000 issue at 5} p.c., with
participating rights to 6£ p.c.,
was substantially oversubscribed.
Wellington Woollen is offering 5|
p.c., with participating rights
to 6| p.c., for its £50,000
redeemable preference issue.
Prices of current preference
shares have slowly declined over
the last two years as fixed
interest-rates have risen. It would
not be surprising if there were
some further falls.
Woolworths (N.Z.) Pro-
perties prefs., which 18 months
ago were selling at 235. 6d. to
yield 4\ p.c., are now priced at
20s. 6d. to yield 4f p.c. These
are probably the most highly
regarded of all N.Z. preference
shares.
Hume Industries (N.Z.) prefs.
dropped 2s. last year and
another Is. this year, now selling
at par, 20s.j to yield 5 p.c.
Felt and Textiles of N.Z.
prefs. are currently selling at
395. 6d. to yield 5-f p.c.
Fletcher Holdings C prefs.,
which started this year at par,
205., to yield 5 p.c., are now
selling at 18s. Bd. to yield 5| p.c.
Dunlop N.Z. prefs. are sell-
ing at 15s. 6d. These are £1
shares carrying a nominal divi-
dend of 4} p.c., less social-
security tax, or a net £4 3s. 3d.
p.c. At the current price they
yield p.c.
Hawkins Holdings, when
announcing a new issue, took
the rather unusual step of rais-
ing the rate on its existing
preference shares from 5 p.c. to
5i p.c. It will be interesting to
see if other companies follow the
same procedure when they
require new preference capital.
Some Australian companies have
already done so.
Nevertheless, it hardly seems
logical for individual companies
to raise the rate on issued shares
when interest-rates rise, as any
attempt to reduce the rate if
interest-rates fell would rightly
be regarded as a breach of faith.
Depression Relic
Meantime pref.- shareholders
in a number of companies still
await restoration of the 20 p.c.
interest-cut which they suffered
under the National Expenditure
Adjustment Act of 1932.
Notable among these com-
panies are: Wright Stephenson,
pref. div. reduced from 5| p.c.
to 5 p.c.; Denhard Bakeries,
reduced from 8 to 6f p.c.;
Rotoiti Timber, reduced from
8 p.c. to 6f p.c.; D.1.C., reduced
from 6 p.c. to 5 p.c.
All these companies are now
paying ordinary dividends at a
high rate, and there seems no
good reason why a depression
law, no longer justified by
economic conditions, should con-
tinue to be used to hold
preference-shareholders’ return
not only below the rate which
they were promised when they
took up the shares, but even in
some pases below the rate at
which new issues are being made.
The National recently
suggested that the Government
should take action to restore all
interest-cuts made under the
1932 Act.
Under the law as it now
stands, 15 p.c. of a co.’s pref.-
shareholders must petition the
Supreme Court before restoration
can be made.
The presentation of such
petitions is hindered by the fact
that pref.-shareholders are an
unorganised group. Their only
representatives are directors, who
also represent the ordinary share-
holders, and the interests of the
two groups are often opposed.
There seems no reason, how-
ever, why the directors, if they
consider that justice requires
restoration of div.-cuts, should
not take the initiative by calling
meetings of pref.-shareholders
to arrange for petitions to be
presented to the Supreme Court.
Savings-bank Rates
The rate of interest for money
placed on fixed deposit in the
Post Office Savings Bank under
the Government’s new scheme
will be 3i p.c., against current-
account rate of 3 p.c. If the
money is left in for less than a
full year interest for the first
three months will be forfeited.
If it is left in for less than two
years, the rate will be 3j p.c.
for the first full year and 2\ p.c.
thereafter. After the money has
been on fixed deposit for two
years it will retain the 3\ p.c.
rate, but will be on current
account.
The scheme had drawn heated
protests from building-societies,
which are at a disadvantage in
two ways in competing for
deposits. They can pay 3j p.c.
only if money is left with them
for three years and they do not
have the status of trustee
security, which the Post Office
has and which they maintain
they should have too. Their
case seems to have merit, and it
will be surprising if something
is not done to assist them.
Exports and Imports
Overseas exchange figures for
September showed a deficit of
£8.4 million, compared with a
deficit of £7.2 million in Sep-
tember last year. Export receipts
were £5.8 million down at £13.8
million and total receipts were
£5 million down at £16.9 million.
Payments for private imports
were £4.3 million down at £18.2
million and total payments were
£3.8 million down at £25.2
million.
For the 12 months to the end
of September the deficit was £3.6
million against a deficit of £27.2
million in the previous 12
months. Export receipts were
£38.6 million up at £277.1 million }
the increase being spread over
all classes of exports except
wool, which showed a small
reduction. Government capital
receipts were £7.2 million down
at £7.6 million. Total receipts
were £26.2 million up at £315.4
million. Payments for private
imports were £7.5 million, or
3.1 p.c. down at £235.4 million.
Total payments were £2.5 million
up at £319 million.
In the Long-run
A refreshingly objective and
long-sighted view of the credit-
squeeze was taken by the chair-
man of George Court and Sons,
Mr. A. M. Seaman, in his address
to shareholders.
The steps taken under the
Reserve Bank’s policy of finan-
cial control were, on the whole,
justified and necessary for the
financial well-being of the
community, he said. In the long
run, therefore, the company
should benefit rather than suffer.
Mr. Seaman’s remarks carried
weight because the immediate
effect of the squeeze has been
to reduce substantially the
volume of hire-purchase trading
done by his compapy, particu-
larly in its home-appliance and
furnishing departments.
A constructive attitude was
also taken by Mr. C. W. Salmon,
chairman of Cory-Wright and
Salmon, another firm which has
felt some of the immediately ad-
verse effects of the squeeze. “We
do not subscribe to any pessi-
mistic view of New Zealand's
economic future,” he said. “We
are confident about the long-
term outlook. However, the
Government’s policy to combat
inflation has brought about a
changing pattern, which affects
many trading businesses. Not to
have a policy to meet this chang-
ing pattern would be wrong.”
Another pat on the back for
the Government’s policy came
from the president of the N.Z.
Retail Motor Trade Association,
Mr. R. B. Gibbons, who said
it appeared that a definite im-
provement had been effected in
the economic structure of the
country.
Insurance Losses
The South British Insurance
Co.’s balance-sheet revealed
much the same pattern as that of
New Zealand Insurance a few
weeks earlier. Though net
premium incorqe rose by 11.9
p.c. to a new peak, a 16 p.c. rise
in losses and a much larger
provision for unexpired risks
caused net profit to fall slightly.
The ratio of losses to premium
income rose from 61.1 p.c. to
63.4 p.c., the highest for 25 years.
On the other hand, the ratio
of expenses to premiums fell
from 25.8 p.c. to 21.6 p.c. Net
profit was £38,520 down at
£975,673, but that was after
transfer of £450,000, against
£150,000 in 1955, to unexpired-
risks reserve. Net profit repre-
sents an earning-rate of 47.3
p.c. on capital of £2,063,280, or
12.1 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
of £8,096,724.


The WILDCAT
COUMN
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd.
A MODERATE div.-rate, which left a
sizeable slice of the profits available
for reinvestment, has assisted the steady
growth of the big Dunlop group over the
past six or seven years. Ord. div.
remained at 8 p.c. from 1947 until 1954,
when it was lifted to 8£ p.c., the latest
distribution being increased to 9 p.c.
following a year of record sales and
earnings.
Supported by net tangible assets to the
extent of 345. 7d., the f.-p. £1 ords. last
sold at 325. Id., to return 5.6 p.c. from a 9
p.c. div., the 10 p.c. prefs. (asset backing
£l3 15s. 6d.) returning 7 p.c. at 28s. 6d.
Dunlop Rubber Australia, Ltd., the
group-parent, was formed in 1920 after
the third reconstruction of a co. origin-
ally registered in 1899 to acquire the Aus-
tralian rights and interests of the English
Dunlop Rubber Co. Since 1920 it has
absorbed Perdriau and Barnet Glass.
The co. is best known as a manufacturer
of all types of rubber tyres, and tyre sales
accounted for 70 p.c. of the group turn-
over in the last financial year. However,
Dunlop interests extend over quite a wide
field, for, as well as claiming to be the
“largest manufacturer of automotive
batteries in Australia,” the group also
produces numerous rubber and synthetic-
rubber products, industrial plastics, air-
craft components, waterproof clothing,
shoes, and tennis and golf equipment.
Paid capital has increased by £3,103,325
since 1950, 1,267,500 £1 shares being
offered to shareholders at a premium of
7s. 6d. in 1951. The acquisition of Ken-
worth Rubber, Ltd., in 1955 resulted in
the issue of 370,032 shares, bringing paid
capital to its present total of £7,798,980,
of which £930,000 is in 10 p.c. prefs.
During the latter half of the year to
June 30 the demand from the automotive
industry was affected by import- and
credit-restrictions and higher rates of
sales-tax; however, it was necessary to
employ the full productive capacity of
the co. throughout the term in order to
meet demand. Turnover (undisclosed)
rose to a record level (in excess of £4O
million) and net earnings also reached a
new peak. After putting away £1,054,917
(up £792,694) for taxation and £819,395
(up £117,996) for depreciation, net profit
was £227,895 higher at £1,300,225:
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Net r Dividends ~ To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1952. .888,389 10 8 527,119 361,270 2,767,645
Tax overprovided, £9035 .. .. 2,776,680
Reduction intangibles, £9O .. .. 2,776,770
Unexplained increase, £34,970 .. 2,811,740
1953. .754,679 10 8 600,000 154,679 2,966,419
From special stock reserve, £100,000.. 3,066,419
To contingencies reserve, £163,396 .. 3,229,815
Added intangibles, £537 .. .. 3,229,278
1954 1,100,975 10 84 631,687 469,288 3,698,566
Unexplained additions, £123,550 .. 3,822,116
Added intangibles, £895 .. .. 3,821,221
1955 1,072,330 10 84 645,410 426,920 4,248,141
Reduction intangibles, £928 .. .. 4,249,069
Profit sale assets, etc., £171,909 .. 4,420,978
1956 1,300,225 10 9 711,208 589,017 5,009,995
* After deducting outside interests,
t After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £731,543)
Earnings covered the 10 p.c. pref. div.
and 17.5 p.c. on ord. capital, compared
with 15, 15.9, 10.4, 14.6 and 18 p.c. back
to 1951. The higher ord. div. on a larger
capital called lor an additional £65,798,
but 45.3 p.c. of the earnings went to
reserves, which were also augmented by
capital profits, etc., amounting to
£171,909.
New plant and additions to premises in
Victoria, S.A. and W.A. added £1,362,936
to the book-value of fixed assets (1928
valuation or cost less depreciation), while
heavier stocks (up £362,830) and debtors
(up £552,181) accompanied the higher
turnover, the bank advancing a further
£1,357,596 to help finance these move-
ments :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
19.54. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £7,267,500 £7,428,948 £7,798,980
Reserves .. 4,430,142 4,980,612 5,741,538
Outside interest 119,819 39,359 22,421
Debentures, etc. 1,656,000 1,582,500 1,482,500
Overdraft .. 779,800 2,137,396
Sundry creditors 1,804,081 2,620,293 2,372,673
Tax reserve .. 1,056,477 1,191,583 1,287,522
Final divs. . . 395,223 390,020 413,585
£16,729,242 £19,019,115 £21,256,615
Freeholds, etc. 3,266,702 3,697,675 4,324,469
Plant, etc. .. 2,776,472 3,254,865 3,991,007
Stocksf .. 5,655,411 7,249,838 7,611,668
Debtors .. 3,549,077 3,989,843 4,542,024
Investments . . 5,534 86,284 49,419
Cash, etc. .. • 744,470 8,139 6,485
Intangibles .. 731,576 732,471 731,543
£16,729,242 £19,019,115 £21,256,615
t After deducting special reserve, £200,000.
The amount due to creditors fell by
£247,620 and the annual repayment of
£lOO,OOO reduced the mortgage debt,
which, incidentally, carries a relatively low
(4y p.c.) rate of interest.
A growing population and a high per-
capita distribution of motor-vehicles
strengthen the co.’s long-term prospects,
while earning-power should benefit from
the capital expenditure of recent years.
The current term will see further additions
to plant and premises, and, as it seems
unlikely that bank-finance will be as
readily available as it apparently was in
the previous term, it may be necessary to
supplement undistributed earnings by a
loan or note-issue.
Appleton Industries, Ltd.
A LTHOUGH . never falling below a
satisfactory level, the earnings of this
Queensland - based manufacturer have
fluctuated violently since its formation as
a holding co. for N. V. Appleton Pty.
and Naco Trading Pty. in 1948. Com-
pared with the preceding term, earnings
were more than doubled in 1950 and
again in 1951, but had fallen sharply by
1954, only to jump again by over 172
p.c. in 1955.
Hot-water systems, steel window-
frames, electric stoves, plastic sinks,
washing-machines and other domestic
appliances are manufactured by the
operating subsidiary, but the production
of louvre-windows at the Hendra
(Brisbane) works is the co.’s chief source
of income.
Branches in N.S.W., Victoria and
South Aus. assist in supplying an
Australia-wide market, while a strong
export trade has been built-up serving
“more than 70 points.”
The co. plans a gradual withdrawal
from the less-profitable appliance-field to
enable greater concentration on the
manufacture of other products for which
there is a strong demand from both local
and overseas buyers.
In 1954 50,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. were
issued redeemable at par by annual instal-
ments, the last of which is due in 1960.
Ord. capital reached its present total,
£500,000, in 1955, a one-for-one bonus-
issue following revaluation of freeholds.
Turnover continued to improve during
the year completed on June 30, but rising
raw-material and labor costs made trading
less profitable, and net earnings fell by
£39,760 to £111,770 after providing
£78,292 (down £8000) for taxation and
£32,036 (up £5740) for depreciation:
Appleton Industries and Subsidiaries.
< Dividends
Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. tained. serves.
£ £ £ £
1950.. 48,178 10 p.c. = 16,000 32,178 19,088
Surplus on sale of assets, £l2 .. 19,100
1951.. 98.959 10 p.c. = 18,497 80,462 99,562
1952.. 62,766 10 ~,, 20.000 42,766 142,328
Surplus on sale of assets, £341 .. 142,669
1953.. 69,497 10 p.c. = 20,000 49,497 192,166
1954.. 55,564 2,194 10 „ ~ 20,833 32,537 224,703
Assets revalued, £119,754 .. .. 344,457
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 .. 94,457
1955.. 151,530 2,850 10 p.c. =37,500 111,180 205,637
Capital profit, £129 .. .. .. 205,766
1956.. 111,770 2,550 10 p.c. =50,000 69,220 264,986
The pref. div., on capital reduced by
annual repayments, took £2550 of the
profit, the balance equalling a return of
21.8 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
29.7 p.c. in the previous term and 25.6,
34.7, 31.3 and 53.3 p.c. on the lower
capital of the four years back to 1951.
Ord. div. was unchanged at 10 p.c.
The directors regard “improved pro-
duction methods as the real answer to
rising costs of labor,” and greater manu-
facturing efficiency has been achieved by
internal reorganisation and the installa-
tion of new plant. Expenditure on plant
and equipment added a net £14,862 to the
book-value (freeholds, 1955 valuation ;
plant 1947 valuation plus cost) of fixed
assets during the term:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital* .. £300,000 £545,000 £540,000
Reserves .. .. 243,086 205,637 264,98 G
Overdraft .. .. 179,258 50,981 197,409
Creditors .. .. 211,728 133,027 178,599
Tax provision .. 34,900 86,300 78,300
Final div 10,833 25,000 25,000
£979,805 £1,045,945 £1,284,294
Freeholds .. .. 110,595 231,389 231,598
Plant, etc 165,022 156,565 171,218
Stocks .. .. 516,091 480,871 662,561
Debtors .. .. 169,399 176,790 218,487
Cash .. .. 315 330 430
Intangibles.. .. 18,383
£979,805 £1,045,945 £1,284,294
* Includes 6 p.c. cum. prefs. redeemable at par in
five yearly, instalments to 31/12/’6O.
As in the five preceding years, over half
the earnings went to reserves, but in
order to carry much heavier stocks (up
£181,670) and debtors (up £41,697), the
co. increased its overdraft by £146,428
and added £45,572 to the amount owing
to creditors. Stocks, 51.5 p.c. of total
assets, include a large quantity of locally-
produced steel, greater supplies of which
have reduced the need for the more costly
imported product.
Arrangements have been made for the
manufacture under licence by the co. of
Teleflex remote-control gears for the
operation of louvre and other types of
windows. Demand has been well main-
tained in the current term, and, with
adequate supplies of raw materials avail-
able and new plant coming into opera-
tion, another successful year is indicated.
Supported by net tangible assets of
15s. 4d., the f.-p. 10s. shares at 12s. 9d.
return 7.8 p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribution.
Davies, Coop and Co., Ltd.
"COR the eighth successive year this
A 31-year-old group of cotton-spinners,
weavers, dyers, underwear-manufacturers
and textile-printers has increased its
annual earnings, demonstrating once again
that its reliability as a profit-winner isn’t
dependent on wholly-favorable trading
conditions. Heavy capital-expenditure
has added £1,657,078 to the group’s fixed
assets over the last six years, and earnings
have yet to receive the full benefit of the
co.’s expansion programme.
Paid capital has increased by
£1,822,071 to £2,572,071 (including
£300,000 in 6 p.c. prefs.) since 1950, over
a quarter of this addition resulting
from the issue of scrip in exchange for
assets other than cash. Shareholders were
offered 2,000,000 ss. shares at par in the
1953 term, during which the big Bradford
Dyers Association (U.K.) took-up scrip
to the value of £450,000. Other trans-
actions leading to an increase in capital
included the acquisition of Associated
Textile Printers and Hollins Mills of Aus-
tralia, whilst in the current term Minster,
Ltd., received 150,000 ss. units as partial
consideration for the sale of the assets,
less freehold, of Sydney Cotton Mills.
The development of Footscray (Vic.)
and Rydalmere (N.S.W.) properties will
lead to a concentration of manufacturing
activities at those centres, while plant in
other States also assist the co. to supply
an Australia-wide market.
Turnover (undisclosed) for the year
completed June 30 last was maintained at
the slightly reduced level of the preced-
ing term, but the greater efficiency of new
plant and the introduction of new lines
(utilising both cotton and synthetic fibres),
lifted earnings, which also benefited from
the completion of the Footscray dye-
house. Provision for co.-taxation was
£59,500 higher at £288,500 and an extra
£21,135 (to £129,642) was charged to
depreciation, leaving a net profit of
£453,914, an improvement of £80,201 or
21.4 p.c.:
i Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. C p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.*
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1961.. 303 15,000 91,416 823,246
Share premiums, £47,727 .. .. 870,973
From outside interests, £7652 .. 878,625
1952.. 148 18,000 124=117,252 111,896 990,521
Share premiums, £175,928 .. .. 1,166,449
Added on acquisition of subsidiary,
£8327 .. , ~ j 174 776
Intangibles appear, £21,882 .. .. 1,152,894
1953.. 18,000 124=155,307 77.270 1,230,164
Profit sale land, £55,000 1,285,164
From tax reserve, £50,216 .. .. 1,335,380
Added intangibles, £221 .. .. 1,335,159
1954.. 18,000 164=248,027 71,999 1,407,158
Assets revalued, £1,196,397 .. .. 2,603,555
Less addition intangibles, £213 .. 2,603,342
1955.. 18,000 15 =263,719 91,994 2,695,336
Tax overprovided, £BOOO .. .. 2,703,336
Provision long-service leave
(accumulated), ’ £28,753 .. 2,674,583
Profit sale freehold, £14,183 .. ..2,688,766
1956.. 18,000 15 =835,186 100,728 2,789,494
‘After deducting intangibles, now £22,816.
The unchanged 15 p.c. div. called for
an additional £71,467 to cover the capital
received in the previous term; earnings,
after meeting the pref. div., equalling
19.5 p.c. on ord. capital compared with
20.2, 20.9, 18.7 and 24.7 p.c. back to
1952.
Despite additions during the term, the
sale of property, and depreciation, left
freeholds (shown in the balance-sheet
mainly at 1955 valuation) only £1250
higher, net additions to plant (1938 valua-
tion or cost) amounting to £270,405:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital £2,278,637 £2,502.292 £2,534,571
Reserves .. . . 1,429,261 2,717,652 2,811,810
Mortgage . . .. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Overdraft, net .. 386,327 804,802 611,886
Creditors . . .. 800,496 632,624 760,658
Tax provision . . 216,843 230,879 288,886
Final div. .. 161,632 157,843 176,593
£5,297,196 £7,071,092 £7,199,404
Freeholds .. .. 842,076 2,244,848 2,246,098
Plant, etc. .. 698,583 1,104,838 1,375,243
Shares other cos... 37,684 37,684
Stocks . . . . 2,051,962 2,438,085 2,281,458
Book debts, etc... 1,682,472 1,223,321 1,236,605
Intangibles .. 22,103 22,316 22,316
£5,297,196 £7,071,092 £7,199,404
Arrangements have been made with the
A.M.P. Society to secure finance for
planned and present building commit-
ments, but it is anticipated that the sale
of buildings at present occupied by the
co. will provide most of the funds needed.
Creditors were waiting for an extra x
£118,034 and debtors were up by £13,284
at the end of the term; however, stocks
were lower by £156,627, and the amount
owing to the bank, less cash in hand, was
reduced by £192,916.
The recommendation of the Tariff
Board in regard to duty on some com-
peting imported goods has not yet been
made public, but if its findings are favor-
able to the co. greater utilisation of plant
will be possible.
At 1 Is. 9d. the f.-p. ss. shares return 6.4
p.c. from a 15 p.c. div., the £1 6 p.c. prefs.
giving a similar yield at 18s. 3d. Net tan-
gible asset backing for the prefs. is
£l7 14s. lid. and 11s. 3d. for the ords.
S.A. Rubber Mills, Ltd.
r\N its excellent record as a public
company S.A. Rubber Mills has been
marked high in the favor of investors on
Adelaide ’Change. Looking to the possi-
bilities of extra dividend benefits or a new
share-issue (an annual event in recent
terms), the market sent up the price of the
ss. shares from 13s. to 16s. just before
the annual meeting in September. The
hopes haven’t so far been realised, and the
scrip has lately settled at around 155., to
yield 5 p.c. on the basis of an unchanged
15 p.c. div.
Rapid development in the motor indus-
try has helped stimulate the growth of
the business, paid capital of which has
risen fourfold (to £400,000) since 1950.
Shareholders put up the last £lOO,OOO
during the 1955-56 term, at par.
Last year earning-power lost some of
its strength, but the £127,923 (up £13,956)
profit claimed, after providing for taxa-
tion at the new rate and charging an addi-
tional £24,363 (£90,308) depreciation on
fixed assets, was still an impressive 37.4
p.c. on the average amount of capital
paid-up. The earnings of the previous
term represented 47.2 p.c., compared with
48.5 p.c., 41.9 p.c., 33.9 p.c., 24.8 p.c.
and 25.9 p.c. back to 1950:
To Re- Re-
June Profit. r Dividend— serve*, serves.
30, £ £ £ £
Share premiums, £13,200 .. .. 82,586
Share-issue exp*. written-off, £2414.. 30,172
1949.. 17,827 10 p.c. = 7,404 10,423 40,595
1950. . 25,891 10 „ „ 10,000 15,891 56,486
Share premiums capitalised, £10,000.. 46,486
1951.. 37,239 10 p.c. = 13,000 24,239 70,725
Unexplained addition, £B3 .. .. 70,808
1952.. 50,888 12$ p.c. = 18,760 32,138 102,946
1953.. 62,897 12$ „ „ 18,750 44,147 147,093
1954.. 96,953 15 „ „ 28,125 68,828 215,921
1955. .113,967 15 „ ~36,250 77,717 293,638
1956. .127,923 15 „ „ 51,250 76,673 370,311
The dividend absorbed £51,250, or £8750
less than the charge for a full term (at
15 p.c.), leaving £76,673 to be added to
reserves, now £370,311. There are no
intangibles.
The co. has factories at Edwardstown
(S.A.) and Dandenong in Victoria, where
it processes crude rubber into goods for a
wide range of industrial and general
uses. Considerable headway has also
been made in the industrial plastics field.
In 1956 production and sales again
reached new high levels, and over the
opening months of the current term these
figures have been “fully maintained."
Forward requirements of customers are
reported to promise well for the future.
Balance-sheet figures reflect vigorous
growth:
Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £200,000 £300,000 £400.000
Reserves , . .. 215,921 293,638 370,311
Overdraft .. .. 47,096 68,462 151,117
Creditors . . ~ 101,523 191,659 240,085
Tax provision .. 113,015 93,510 124,252
Dividends .. .. 28,125 36,250 51,250
£705,680 £983,519 £1,337,015
Freehold land, build-
ings .. . . 98,008 195,180 222,615
Plant, vehicles, etc. 152,216 221,058 288,631
Stock . . . . 223,548 313,610 520.836
Debtors .. .. 204,015 214,083 281,200
Cash, prepavments,
etc. ~ .. 27,893 39,588 23,733
£705,680 £983,519 £1,337,015
To meet the expanding demand for its
products, particularly from the motor
industry, the co. spent £95,008 more on
fixed assets than it wrote off, and added
£207,226 to stocks and work-in-progress
(in at cost or market-replacement at
£520,836). Book-debts stood £67,117
higher at £281,200.
Share-capital and retentions provided
about half the finance needed, and bank-
overdraft (up £82,655) and trade creditors
(up £48,426) the rest. When the books
closed there was 10s. 2d. of outside money
(overdraft and creditors) for every £
belonging to shareholders in the business.
Net tangibles on conservative book-
values amounted to 9s. 7d. a share.
Working-capital (the excess of current
assets over liabilities) was £310,315 (up
£96,665).
Brooklands (Holdings), Ltd.
Distributing motor-vehicle parts
and accessories, Brooklands Holdings
has shared in the prosperity brought to
the trade by the heavy post-war demand
for motor-vehicles. The co. was formed
in 1955 to facilitate changes in the
administration and capital structure ot
Brooklands Accessories, Ltd., ord. share-
holders in that co. receiving, in effect, a
one-for-two bonus issue on exchanging
their shares for scrip in the new co. No
public issue was made, the paid capital ot
£519,719 being issued in exchange for the
old shares. Holders of the 25,000 £1
7 p.c. prefs. received a similar interest
in the new co.
Operating in Victoria and N.S.W., the
co.’s five subsidiaries distribute a large
range of automotive spare-parts, service


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON^
OSUMJVAN
pmno .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LEITERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE, MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS aVd OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL." BRISBANE
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRSDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Eilters, Steam Valves,
etc.
Missing Friend
TO WILLIAM PHILLIP EUSTACE
SWEET (son of THOMAS SWEET), for-
merly of Alberton, South Gippsland, Vic-
toria. —WILL the abovenamed person, or
anyone knowing of him, please communi-
cate with the undersigned, when he may
receive information to his advantage.—*
GIBSON, MACPHILLAMY & PHIPPARD,
Solicitors, 43 Phillip Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.?
SBBS l Bl|} IIBAO pUB SJIIBIIIJIIOO g SSOJO\f
uoj)B||9poo jadn§ paaipoi
■' ■ ■
•«—JWr- M
ißiißimwin
isnv
r
■■■ :
H
ii
ms* 1
; : |§§&
%WWI
0U
ts
II
!S:SESS i •<
The latest in a line of distinguished
Lockheed airliners, the 1049 G version
of the Super Constellation is serving
Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort
and speed of the world’s most luxurious
airliner. 24 world airlines feature Super
Constellation service over connecting
routes which cross every ocean and
span every continent.
Qantas, Air India International and KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines afford Super Constellation service to
5 Continents from Australia.
COMING!
World’s Longest Range Airliner—the
Super Constellation 1649 A with its
revolutionary high-speed, long range
wing. It will make possible NON-STOP
flights both ways between the capitals of
the world.
>c
LOCKHEED
Luxury
Liner
LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION Burbank • California • U. S. A. / Look to
and repair electrical and
mechanical equipment, and hold
agencies for English manu-
facturers Joseph Lucas and S.
Smith and Sons.
The number of motor-vehicles
in Australia has almost trebled
over the last 11 years, enabling
considerable growth in the co.’s
earnings and turnover during
that period. The annual accounts
(to April, 1956), the first under
the name of Brooklands Hold-
ings, showed an improvement in
gross earnings of £2138 (to
£581,508), but expenses took an
extra £7240, resulting in a small
drop in net earnings. A high
level of earning-power has been
maintained:
Brooklands Accessories & Subsidiaries.
f Dividends ,
Pref. R e .
April, Profit. 7 p.c. , Ord. serves.
£ £ p.C. £ £
1952.. 109.993 1750 174 = 38,478 295,269
Tax overprovided, etc., £1521. 296 790
1953.. 111.787 1750 = 38,478 368,349
Tax overprovided, £21,966 .. 390,315
1954.. 117.856 1750 = 38,478 467,943
Profit sale assets, £941 .. 468,884
Tax overprovided, £159 . . 469,043
Unexpl’ed reduction, £1978.. 467,065
1955.. 128.356 1750 = 54,969 538,702
Brooklands (Holdings) , Ltd.
Less “goodwill,” etc., on re-
organisation, £164,899 . . 373,803
Profit sale assets, £3292 .. 377,095
Tax overprovided, etc., £270.. 377,365
Preliminary exp. w/off, £4628 . 372,737
1956.. 123.891 1750 15 = 74,208 420,670
* After deducting intangibles (£187,038
at 30/4/’56).
Net profit of £123,891 is down by
£4465 after allowing £16,901 (up
£3680) for depreciation and pro-
viding £86,900 (down £4600) for
taxation. After covering the pref.
div., ord. capital returned 24.7
p.c., equivalent to approximately
37 p.c. on the Brooklands
Accessories capital, which in the
previous four years had returned
40.3, 52.8, 49.2 and 51.9 p.c. The
15 p.c. div. (worth p.c. to the
original shareholders) took
£74,208, reserves gaining a net
£46,867 over the year.
Expanding trade and new-
model vehicles necessitated
heavier stocks (up £115,680),
while the construction of new
premises at North Melbourne
and Orange (N.S.W.) increased
the book-value of freeholds by
£66,171 and plant, etc., by
£18,427:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £25,000 £25,000
Ord 329,813 494,719
Reserves .. .. 538,702 420,670
Outside interests.. 15
Overdraft .. .. 44,221
Creditors, etc. .. 223,934 326,061
Tax provision .. 91,500 86,900
Final divs. .. 42,102 50,347
£1,251,066 £1,447,918
Freeholds .. .. 213,167 279,338
Leaseholds.. .. 14,174 13,693
Plant and fittings 83,833 102,260
Stoclfs .. .. 531,926 647,006
Debtors .. .. 369,347 403,738
Cash .. .. 38,619 • 1,283
£1,251,066 £1,447,918
Financing most of its expansion
from profits, the co. has also had
assistance from the bank, while
the amount due to creditors has
risen by £102,127.
The current term promises to
be successful if increased
operating-costs can be absorbed ;
sales have remained at a high
level, and a steady demand can
be expected;
The growth of the motor-
vehicle industry in Australia is
reflected by the chairman’s state-
ment that “the quality of the
products manufactured in Aus-
tralia has reached a very high
standard, and by far the greater
proportion of our requirements
are now obtained from local
sources.”
The £1 prefs. have a net
tangible-asset backing of
£37 12s. 4d., the ss. ords. being
covered to the extent of 9s. 3d.
Last sale of the prefs. brought
20s. 6d. to return 6.8 p.c., the
ords. at 12s. 3d. yielding 6.1 p.c.
from a 15 p.c. div.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
LAMOR stock in the rutile
section of the Stock
Exchange lists, Zircon Rutile,
Ltd., is also the pioneer rutile-
miner of the Australian east
coast. Its sales last year reached
a further high (but unstated)
record, and it is said that the
1956-57 output should exceed
this.
But nowhere in the co.’s
accounts are the statistics usual
to a mining company given. No
throughput figures, no outturn
results. And no ore reserves,
though, on a beach, grade of ore
reserves, anyway, is probably
difficult to talk about when over-
burden is included.
Lack of such information sug-
gests that the mining investor
should make a new sort of
approach to this new sort of
industry. For some time the
sharemarket has been pressing on
regardless. It has a vague idea
that a new boom mining
industry, in which Australia has
world pre-eminence, is develop-
ing, and that only the surface
has been scratched so far.
That may be so in a. mining
sense; but from the Stock
Exchange point of view more
than the speculative surface has
been scratched when the 255,000
issued 10s. shares in Zircon
Rutile have a market-value of
just on £2} million.
Last year the co. made a profit
of £325,333, after charging
£52,500 of taxation. And it paid-
out £102,000 in an 80 p.c.
dividend.
That is a very fine perform-
ance. But it should be remem-
bered, from the market’s point of
view, that it would take over
20 years to get back the present
market price at that rate of dis-
tribution. At last year’s rate of
earning, it would take about
eight years to see the market
price covered. But already it is
clear that a good deal of present
earnings are required for plough-
ing-back into plant-expenditure
and the like, which is only of
value so long as mining opera-
tions are profitable.
However, the co. is looking
confidently towards the future.
Wallace H. Smith, the chairman,
says the future of the mineral-
sands industry appears to be
assured for some years ahead.
“Your co. has made long-term
contracts at favorable prices for
a substantial proportion of the
planned output. This applied
particularly to the forward rutile
position, but there are already
strong indications of an improve-
ment in the demand for zircon
and a consequent upward turn in
the prices which are now obtain-
able for the latter product.”
Mineral leases appear in the
co.’s balance-sheet at £16,200,
which the board considers a
nominal sum. It is therefore
going to capitalise share-pre-
mium reserve by an IS-for-100
bonus-issue, and is to issue four
new 10s. shares in a new holding
co. for every one held in the
present co. These readjustments
won’t make earnings any easier
or mineral potential any greater.
The co. has plants at Byron
Bay, Port Macquarie and
Boggingar. A unit owned and
operated by Titanium Corp. of
Australia, Ltd., at Tewantin
(Q.), in which Zircon Rutile has
a half-interest, started produc-
tion of rutile in April and is
approaching its rated capacity.
Under a joint arrangement with
Whale Industries, Ltd., . a co.
called Tangalooma Minerals
Pty. has been formed to work
deposits on Moreton Island (Q.).
A large number of additional
lease-applications have been
lodged with the N.S.W. Mines
Department, and it is expected
that they will be granted as
leases in due course.
The co. is Australia’s largest
producer of zircon ; demand for
this in the past has been limited.
But prices are improving.
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd.
of this big tin co.,
along with a number of
others now in the Anglo-Oriental
stable, was originally in the
hands of the Prattens, of
Sydney. Then in 1934 their
interests were passed to the
London Tin Corporation.
When the war ended only
two of the co.’s three dredges
were found on its property, the
other had been dismantled and
taken away. One machine was
got back into production in
May, 1946, and the second, a
year later. In 1950 shareholders
received their first post-war
distribution, of 5 p.c. Since then
divs. totalling a nominal 136.08
p.c. have been handed out.
In 1955 both dredges worked
the whole of the term and out-
put was lifted 344.52 tons to
1213.57 tons of slightly richer
(76.3 p.c.) concentrates, equal
to 925.9 tons (up 288.8 tons)
metallic. Patchy ground was
encountered by No. 2 dredge,
working the Sungei Garing area,
and to achieve the 39.6 p.c.
bigger output of ore the co.
treated 83.6 p.c. more dirt:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Houi’s worked 4,452 9,734 15,062
Cub. yards
treated .. 1,874,000 4,403,000 8,085,000
Area dredged
(acres) .. 32.83 65.09 156.35
Ore recovered
(tons) .. 395.92 869.05 1213.57
Av. assav
(p.c.) . . 74.2 75.9 76.3
Ore-yield cub.
yd. (1b.).. .47 .44 .34
Costs cub. yd.
(pence) . . 10.73 8.58 7.48
So, notwithstanding a higher
average price for concentrates,
A
net profit of £170,626 showed a
gain of only £4662:
Mch., Income. Exes. Profit. Div.
£ £ £ £
War claim recovery, £6419
From dredge removal reserve,
£120,713 15 p.e.
1954. .273,078 178,051 95,027 91,980
From dredge removal reserve,
£138,304 .. '.. .. 25 p.c.
1955. .512,620 346,656 165,964 153,300
Profit sale assets, £2204 .. 27.5 p.c.
1956. .727,368 566,742 170,626 168,630
(All figures sterling. Rates of div. are
those declared, but the amounts are less
30 p.c. Malayan income-tax.)
Lifted from 15 p.c. to 25 p.c. in
1955, the div. was jacked-up
another 24- p.c. last year to a
nominal 27.5 p.c. The amount
actually distributed to share-
holders after deducting Malayan
tax, 19.25 p.c., was just covered
by net earnings.
Working-life of the two
properties is put at about three
to four years, subject to the
level of recoveries and the price
of tin. The patchy nature of
the ground makes accurate fore-
casts of production impossible,
but, according to the co., “there
is no reason why the dredges
should not continue to maintain
a satisfactory record.”
When the year ended cash and
book - debts amounted to
£796,886, against current
liabilities of £172,157. Stores and
spares at cost or under figured
at £253,088.
On Sydney ’Change at present
the f.-p. 10 s. shares fetch
around 11s. 6d. A year ago the
price was 13s.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Topics of the -week :
Drive-in theatres and how you have to
drive out such a long way before you
can drive-in.
All. the people who are going to the
Olympic Games with hotel accommoda-
tion at £7 7s. per head per day and the
11s. opening-day tickets being offered at
£5 ss. each.
All the people who are not going to the
Olympic Games, the Chinese Opera
Company (Sydney is to have them
instead), the Ned Kelly production, the
Hungarians.
Princess Margaret saying to the
Governor of Kenya: “See you later,
alligator,” and its right response, “In a
while, crocodile.” (It is always well to
know the correct thing to say to Royalty.)
st a ☆
Welcome arrivals during the week
were Governor-General Sir William Slim
and Lady Slim, who have been spending
a three-month holiday in England. They
were in Sydney only a few hours, having
arrived by Qantas; they were met by
the Governor, Sir John Northcott, with
Government and Service representatives,
and then drove to Government House.
Later in the morning they left by
R.A.A.F. Convair for Canberra. Lady
Slim, who personally favors the fashion-
able cinnamon, brown and beige tonings,
wore these colors both, for arrival and
departure.
☆ ☆ ☆
A wonderfully successful crush made it
almost impossible to move at the open-
ing of the “Dining At Home” Exhibition
(David Jones’ Gallery) in aid of the
Karitane Mobile Clinic. Danish Consul-
General Henning Hergal explained in his
opening speech all about the George
Jensen silver which was a feature of the
exhibition, some of which will be on sale
in D.J.’s new shop on the 6th floor, and
some special exhibition-pieces have been
specially sent out on loan from Denmark.
Well-known Sydney'women decorated the
tables, among the most beautiful being
Lady Lloyd-Jones’s Formal Dinner with
its silver bowl of lily-of-the-valley and its
two jade figures ; Mrs. William Northam’s
Thanksgiving Day Luncheon ; Mrs.
Philip Rudder’s Continental Breakfast;
and Mrs. Norman Jenkyn’s Festive Party
table. The exhibition will be open till
November 2.
☆ ☆ ☆
Along the lines of:
“This’ll teach ’em
To say Beauchamp
is the verse of the week:
“Causing foment
At the moment,
The potato, the onion.
And Tony Moynihan.”
☆ ☆
Collars were mostly worn back-to-front
at the recitals given at the Town Hall
during the week by Fernando Germani,
titular organist to the Vatican. It is
always so at organ-recitals.. Also in the
audience at the opening recital were noted
Dr. A. Redler, Consul-General for
Guatemala, and Mrs. Redler, who had
entertained their party of 12 at dinner
beforehand.
☆ ☆ ☆
United Nations Week was celebrated
in Sydney by a ceremony at the Cenotaph
at which the Minister for the Army, the
Hon. J. O. Cramer, gave the address and
laid a wreath on behalf of the Federal
Government. Wreaths were also laid by
the Hon. J. J. Maloney (representing the
Government of N.S.W.), the Rev. W. J.
Hobbin for the U.N. Association of
Australia, and Colonel Edwin Penfold,
Australian Councillor for the World
Veterans’ Association.
☆ ☆ ☆
Women’s organisations were strongly
represented at the luncheon held at Mark
Foy’s Grey Room as part of the United
Nations’ Week celebrations. Chief
speakers were the Begum Durrani, look-
ing very striking in a satin patterned
dress and a cream sari, and Mrs. Hugh
Williams, who explained all about the
specialised agencies for U.N. Mrs.
Preston Stanley, vice-president of the
U.N. Association, was in the main chair
and Mrs, P. N. Warren spoke the words
of thanks, seconded by Mrs. J. Metcalfe.
A colorful group were the Philippine
ladies wearing their national-dress, with
warmly exuberant Madame Agbayani
demonstrating the “good - neighbor”
iheme • which ran through a|| , he
speeches,
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere has made 1956
a year of record achievement in her work
for charity. As president of six social-
committees she has raised a total of
£17,700 since the beginning of the year.
For the Royal Blind Society her Black
and White Ball committee raised £9400 ;
the Elizabethan Theatre Ball made £3000,
the Gala Preview in aid of the Totally
and Permanently Incapacitated Ex-service-
men £2000 and the Red Cross Gala Pre-
view £l300, while for the Eastern Suburbs
Home for Subnormal Children her Wool-
lahra Ladies’ Auxiliary made another
£2000.
Mrs. Dekyvere has also been closely
associated with the St. Vincent’s Hospital
Centenary Appeal and worked for the
fete which last week raised £3600. She is
a member of the committees of the Navy
League and the White Cross (St. John
Ambulance) as well as being a member
of the Board of the Independent Theatre
and the Phillip-street Theatre. Always
quick to give others credit for the work
they do, she herself is acknowledged by
her committee-members to be an inspir-
ing leader and a fine organiser, Photo
by Dayne.
Nature puts on the decor at Jim
Bendrodt’s new Caprice restaurant over
the water at Rose Bay, for the sky and
the harbor and the twinkling headlands
can be seen as a lovely picture from every
chair. Features of the place are the rosy
lighting in the ceiling (guaranteed to take
10 years off your face!) and the delicious
food (guaranteed to put 10 years on your
figure?).
☆ ☆ ☆
An unusual travel-book by Bulletin
contributor Mabel Wain Smith is to be
in the bookshops by December, its
name Land of Swift-running Horses, its
setting Mongolia. Mrs/Smith, who now
lives in Sydney, is a Philadelphia Quaker
who made up her mind to travel while
still in college. A Sister of novelist Nora
Wain, she spent some years in China
and three years in a Japanese intern-
ment-camp. Her wide travels have taken
her also to Korea. This book about
Mongolia is being published by Harrap
and promises to be full of interesting
material.
<r ☆ ☆
Both president and secretary of the
Lady Mayoress’s Ball Committee, of
which the final meeting was held during
the week, are looking forward to visiting
Melbourne next month. The Lady
Mayoress herself will attend the first
week of the Olympic Games with her
husband, Aid. P. D. Hills, and her
second daughter Maria, while the secre-
tary, Mrs. C. M- Guiney (who returned
only recently from a Melbourne trip to
see her horse Nydello run at Caulfield)
plans to return shortly both for the Cup
and the Games. The Lady Mayoress’s
Ball, by the way, raised the very gratifying
sum of £947 for charity.
☆ -ft ☆
For the Schumann Centenary cele-
bration there will be an illustrated
lecture by* Peter Platt in the Great Hall
of the University on Tuesday November
6 at 8 p.m., followed by piano and vocal
items by Melvin Bennett and Paula
Clarkson. This has been arranged by the
Goethe Society with the help of the
Music Department of the University.
MELBOURNE
The Governor and Lady Brooks
attended the dinner-dance at Menzies’
organised by a committee headed by Mrs.
D. J. S. Mackinnon to help the funds of
the Lort Smith Memorial Appeal for the
Animal Welfare League. Lady Brooks
wore a lovely white satin gown cut on
Princess lines, the high Empire-bodice
defined with a narrow black velvet ribbon
finished with one French pink rose, Dame
Mabel Brookes, who is president of the
league, chose white satin brocade and a
white mink stole, Mrs. D. J. S. Mackin-
non’s sheath-frock was of heavy guipure-
lace, with whirls of white pleated tulle at
the hemline. Mrs. Len Buxton’s chiffons
were patterned in tiny black circles, and
the skirt had a peacock-hemline.
Ticket-secretaries were Mrs. lan Miller,
who wore a frock and matching-coat of
‘Ming-blue satin, and Mrs. Hamilton
Sleigh, whose frock and coat were of
pale-grey faille patterned in a blurred
design of mauve and blue hydrangeas and
pink roses.
☆ ☆ ☆
The new Olympic swimming-pool is a
masterpiece of design, and this Letter was
one of the 8000 spectators who were
fascinated by the prowess of the wonder-
ful line-up of girl swimmers, headed by
the Sydney lass Lorraine Crapp, whose
rhythmic action is a sheer delight. The
high-tower diving of Barbara McCaulay,
too, has to be seen to be believed, and she
looked a picture in her white swim-suit.
The display certainly augured well for our
girls’ success in this sphere at the Games.
Journalist Mrs. Marjorie Burke, who
has been appointed public-relations-
officer and funds-organiser for Oppor-
tunity Clubs, is organising a TV Pajrty
Plan to raise £l000 to buy TV-sets for the
clubs, which operate in industrial suburbs.
The idea is for set-owners to hold viewing-
parties to celebrate the opening of tele-
vision, guests to give a small donation.
Mrs. Burke’s plan has been commended
by the Premier and the Chief Commis-
sioner of Police. Those with TV-sets who
are willing to help this good cause should
contact Mrs. Burke.
Not far from the city, in a wonderfully
decorated wool-shed, almost 200 guests
sat down to dinner and later danced.
This function was arranged by a band of
women who call themselves the Anony-
mous Group, and who work for Dr.
Cunningham Dax; head of the State’s
Mental Hygiene Department. All the
money raised is devoted entirely to the
Mentally Retarded Children Kew Cot-
tages. This function netted £lO50 —a
splendid achievement. A feature of the
evening was the help given to the Group
by young husbands and their wives, and
they included Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey
Tolson (she is the daughter of Sir Frank
and Lady Selleck), Mr. and Mrs. Max
Mitchell and Mr. and Mrs. John Cox,
Mrs. Alex Finlay wore a full-skirted
frock of scarlet taffeta, Mrs. Jack Steele
a short grey faille frock embroidered in
opalescent sequins, Mrs. Ronald Nott
black French lace, and Mrs. Eric Rogers
a sheath-frock of white guipure-lace.
* ☆ ☆
“Operation Gratitude” will benefit to
the sum of almost £5OO from the dinner-
dance at Ciro’s organised by Mrs. Zois
Economou and her friends. Lieut.-
General Sir William Bridgeford and Lady
Bridgeford were welcomed by Mrs.
Economou, whose short frock was of
pastel-pink satin. Lady Bridgeford’s
formal gown of black heavy corded faille
was patterned in white chrysanthemums.
Among the guests were R.S.L. vice-
president P. D. Hayes and Mrs. Hayes,
Mr. and Mrs. Keith Newman (she Wear-
ing a black silk ballerina-frock), Dr. and
Mrs. Kevin Churches, Mr. and Mrs.
W. K. Burnside (her gown of cinnamon-
brown Chantilly-lace), the George Shep-
herds, and Mr. and Mrs. T. C. Rodda
(her choice was a black-and-silver
embroidered tulle frock).
☆ ☆ ☆
The artistic floral-decorations in the
reception-rooms of Mrs. Eric Cottrell's
Toorak home were greatly admired by
the 150 guests who were at an American-
style luncheon she gave to aid Red Cross.
A huge crystal bowl heaped with pink
roses and mixed with lily-of-the-vallev
was centred on the dining-table;
branches of white lilac and roses mingled
with purple lilac and iris in the other
reception-rooms. Those who attended
included the wife of the Premier, Mrs.
Henry Bolte, Mrs. W. J. F. McDonald,
Lady Warner, Mrs. Eccles McKay,
Dame Mary Daly, Mrs. Gerald Warner
(wife of the U.S. Consul-General), Mrs.
J. Wiedenmayer (wife of the U.S.
Consul), Mrs. John Heath, Mrs. Gray
Staley, Mrs. Saul Aarons, Mrs. John
Carrodus and Mrs. T. Wallace Mitchell.
Mrs. Cottrell was assisted by her sister,
Mrs. Norman Spry, Mrs. Leo Curtis.
Mrs. Robert Wallace Mitchell and Miss
Marion McPherson.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Anne Therese, younger daughter
of Mrs. A. R. Marron of Elwood and the
late Dr. S. H. Marron, was married at
St. James Church, Garden Vale, she wore
a gown of cream nylon-organza
embroidered on the bodice with pearls,
mother-of-pearl iridescent beads and
crystals ; her veil of Limerick-lace had
been worn by her mother. She carried a
small trail of orchids. Her sisters-in-law,
Mrs. John Marron and Mrs. Richard
Marron, were the matrons-of-honor;
their frocks were of cream chiffon
embroidered in a scroll design, their little
hats of honey-toned feathers ; they carried
posies of orchids. The bridegroom,
Antonio, is the eldest son of Colonello
and Signora C. Colacino of Naples, Italy.
Best man was Geoffrey Phillips. Recep-
tion was at the Hotel Windsor.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mine Host of the Mayfair, Tom Busst,
invited a number of guests to a late-
afternoon party to view his newly and
beautifully decorated hotel, to see his
Olympic decorations, and to taste his
special Olympic "cocktail, “Brundage
Buster.” Among the guests were Lady
Bridgeford (who represented her hus-
band), Mr. and Mrs. David Dickson (he
is president of the Warrnambool Racing
Club) and well-known businessmen and
representatives of press and radio. If you
would care to try the “Brundage Buster”
here is the recipe: loz. brandy, of
sweet vermouth, }oz. vodka, dash of
maraschino, dash of apricot-brandy,
squeeze of lemon-juice. Serve with ginger-
ale and soda in 7oz. glass. Mr, Avery
Brundage, after whom it is named, should
certainly get a kick out of it!
CANBERRA
A community project creating interest
in Canberra is the Y.M.C.A. Building
Appeal, which has for its immediate goal
the raising of £30,000 towards the
£200,000 building to be started next year.
When completed it will be one of the
most modern recreation-centres in the
Commonwealth.
One of the many functions in aid of
the plan was a bright afternoon-party at
the Hotel Civic on Friday, organised by
Mrs. B. R. Roberts and Mrs. J. K.
Lawrence. The reception-rooms were
decorated with large arrangements ol
purple and white lilac, with tall iris
blooms and small bowls of deep-red
tulips. Mrs. lan Campbell, president of
the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the Y.M.C.A.,
presided, wearing a small petalled hat in
emerald-green velvet with her slate-grey
suit. Highlight of the afternoon was a
talk and demonstration of make-up by
much-travelled beauty specialist Mrs.
Nona Field, Ph.C., of “Innoxa,” England,
who wore a deep-purple velor hat with
her double-breasted black tailored suit.
In her warm and witty address Mrs.
Field said: “With all the new nourishing
creams and lotions, we have no need tc
go around looking like dried prunes this
summer.”
Noted among the well-groomed guests
Mrs. John Stubbs’s striking hat in
Chartreuse fur-felt featuring a buckle and
bow in front; committee-member Mrs.
P. C. McGovern’s small platter-hat in
mustard felt trimmed with black; and
Mrs. P. C. Lucas’s ink-blue felt hat
swathed in grey chiffon. •
A musical programme was provided by
Mrs. E. Fisher and Mrs. M. Law.
Proceeds of the afternoon benefit the
appeal.


Divorce Notices
TO ROBERT IRVINE Address Unknown.
—Take NOTICE that your wife MARY
ELLEN IRVINE has commenced proceed-
ings against you in the Supreme Court of
\\ estern Australia for Divorce on the
grounds of (1) Separation for a con-
tinuous period of not less than five years
and there is no reasonable likelihood of
co-habitation being resumed. (2) Entire
failure for three years immediately pre-
ceding the commencement of the action to
make periodical payments of maintenance
under an order of a competent Court If
you desire to defend such proceedings vou
must file your defence at the Central Office
Supreme Court Perth within Forty clear
days from the date of this publication In
default of your so doing the action may
proceed and the Court will pronounce
judgment and may make orders against
you in your absence. DATED the 22nd
day of October, 1956. —G. J. BOYLSON,
Registrar. LOHRMANN TINDAL &
GUTHRIE, of 89 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, Solicitors for the abovenamed
MARY ELLEN IRVINE.
TOGRACE ANN MAY WILLIS formerly
of Perth W.A.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband EDWARD TALBOT WILLIS has
commenced proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Western Australia for
Divorce on the ground of Desertion by
you for a continuous period of three years
or more or alternatively on the ground of
separation for a continuous period of not
than five years there being no reason-
able likelihood of co-habitation being re-
sumed IF you desire to defend such pro-
ceedings you must file your defence in
the Central Office of the Supreme Court
at Perth within FORTY clear days from
the date of this publication In default of
iour so doing the cause may proceed and
tne Court will pronounce judgment and
r™ - VOll in your absence.
DATED fills 2Cth day of October, 1956.
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. FRED
CURRAN & FERRIER. It Forrest Place,
Perth Western Australia, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff.
Missing Friend
Missing Person.—LESLIE J GRIST for-
merly of Arden Street, Coogee, Svdnev oi
an\ person knowing his present where-
abouts. please get in touch with the
I' 1 STRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE, P.O , Rqs
7t'aland^ am^ton Ua ' V ’ Wellington, New
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Built entireLy in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros, Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Artbursts
Italian Art
Walking round the big travel-
ling exhibition of “Italian Art
of the 20th Century” at the
N. S. Wales National Gallery,
all bright and thin as tinsel, this
commentator suddenly noticed
that he was treading on a piece of
abstract art and knew' not which
way to jump.
For it was the floor. Si, si,
as we used to say at the Pensione
Morandi before setting out to
see the Botticellis at the Uflizi,
the floor. What else but abstract
art are all those beautiful pieces
of wood, inlaid in their herring-
bone pattern?
They go this way; they go
that way ; they zig and they zag
like billyoh. And if they are not
just such a kind of abstract
music as Gino Severini’s
“Rhythms of Forms” or Nino
Franchina’s silver-winged kero-
sene-tins, the commentator will
eat them. The only essential
difference is that the floor is
more useful, more harmonious,
more beautiful.
And really it does seem non-
sensical, an extraordinary criti-
cism of the age, to send these
nonsensical abstracts all the
way round the world: especially
when just the same sort of thing
can and is being done locally.
Still, if one continues with a
delicate catlike tread over the
masterpiece of the floor, there
are a number of very interesting
things on the walls, and even a
few fine ones.
There are the paintings which
are interesting because the artists
have glittering contemporary
reputations. Campigli’s dolls
have gone round the world and,
even if they still look like dolls,
there they are. Chirico’s “Still
Life,” with fruit, fish and a
decapitated marble head, is rich
in his baroque manner.
There are the oddities designed
to startle, chief among which is
Alberto Viani’s exceedingly rude
white nude ; a sculpture which
has not, however, quite so large
a behind as a piece one saw in
the museum of modern art in
Paris.
There are paintings which
nearly succeed, the lively experi-
ments: like Antonio Corpora’s
“Red Gully,” which, even if it
is not Hieronymus Bosch, is
quite captivatingly hellish; and
Virgilio Guidi’s “Spatial Sea-
scape” made up of nothing but
bands of blue and cream ; and
perhaps the green bogey of
Ennio Morlotti’s “Idol”; and
that kind of thing. . .
And then there are the good
things, like Gino Severini’s spiky
fish, the flowers and landscape of
Pisis and Tosi, Menzio’s blue
“Bridge on the Po River,”
Giovanni Omiccioli’s “Old
Fisherman by the Sea” (if it is
not too lurid) and, among the
sculptures, Mastroianni’s stone
“Nude,” a very chunky bit of
cubism.
And finally, here and there,
are the really fine things: Fausto
Pirandello’s “Roofs,” a landscape
which Conder might have
painted; an admirable black-
and-white section ; a nice bronze
“Cock” by Marcello Mascherini
and a most vital bronze head,
full of expression with its pointed
nose and twisted lips, by Marino
Marini.
Had one not, for fear of
hurting the beautiful abstract
floor, felt obliged to walk on
one’s hands from this point on,
there might have been more to
notice.
{4
The humble toadstool comes
into its own in an exhibition of
paintings of wildflowers and
fungi by Daisy Wood at the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau
gallery in Melbourne. There are
brown, purple, green and scarlet
fungi and fungi with green-
hoods, all as meticulously painted
as the yellow banksia, the
kangaroo-paws and the Diuris
orchids. Pottery by Anne
Sutherland is included. If they
lack life and lustre, her jugs,
bowls and vases don’t lack
polish.
❖ *l* *>
Latest addition to the aesthetic
charm of Melbourne is the
Olympic Torch which towers like
a gigantic funnel 85ft. into the
air at the Flinders-street inter-
section, which was still the
world’s busiest intersection on
the Sunday on which 70 men
brought the torch and hoisted
it into position with 80ft. jibs.
By some engineering magic the
four tons of wire and metal
appears to be floating 25ft. above
the roadway, completely obscur-
ing the view of the Shrine of
Remembrance where another
eternal flame burns. When the
torch is lighted at night and the
flames and the smoke come
pouring from it the effect should
be striking enough to serve as an
inspiration for the modern
architect and sculptor.
Stage and Music
Mozart in Melbourne
The Australian Opera Com-
pany has moved from Brisbane
to Melbourne and a very wel-
come visitor it is.
The curtain rises at Her
Majesty’s, Joseph Mozart Post,
with sparrowlike alertness, points
his baton and immediately every-
thing becomes intensely busy.
The orchestra, ponderous in
numbers but light in movement,
leaps fully clothed into the rush-
ing stream of Mozart’s music
and John Cameron, valet to
Count Almaviva, springs into
melodious action. A few
seconds later Susanna Valda
Bagnall prances in on pert feet,
followed in quick succession by
Doctor Bartolo Neilson and
Wilma Whitney Marcellina, and
before the audience has got its
decks cleared the stage has
become so thickly populated with
personified emotions in fantastic
relation to one another and in
constant movement that nobody
knows where he is, particularly
the critic, busy looking for
something to find fault with.
He might think that Marcel-
lina’s undignified behavior con-
tradicts the swift grace of
Mozart’s music, but would
Mozart think so? Once at
rehearsal the composer crept
up behind the leading lady,
put his hand under her skirts
and pinched her leg and
she let out a scream of terror.
“There! That is how I want it,”
he said. It was the human note
he wanted.
Nobody before him got that
human note into the voice as
much as he did. Dramatically
speaking, producer Dennis
Arundell seems to have
grasped that principle of
Mozart’s, and Joseph Post is
doing the same with his instru-
mentalists. Kenneth Rowell
almost gets it with his settings,
and the only thing seriously out
of tune in the whole performance
is the ridiculous facial make-up
of the actors. It only serves to
make them look iike actors.
The show continues at the
same exciting tempo. Count
Almaviva is demanding in im~
passioned accents the jus primce
noctis of the Lord of the Manor
from Figaro’s fiancee, to Figaro’s
indignation, and the plot becomes
so complicated that the mind
loses track of it. It is not worth
bothering about, However. There
is nothing confused about the
music. The beauty and gaiety
of its line never wavers and every
now and then up pops some
famous aria like “Voi che
Sapete,” sung adequately in the
present instance by Bettina Ben-
field. It was an all-Australian
cast for the first performance—
the Elizabethan Trust wanted to
show what it can do without out-
side assistance. Weil, they’re
doing pretty well. They’re
growing up, though not quite
as fast as Mozart.
Some men grow slowly, like
the oak, some quickly, like the
poplar. It is staggering to think
that Mozart was 20 when he
composed “The Marriage of
Figaro” and that he did it all
in four weeks.
The second performance of
the opera was distinguished by
the glorious singing of Sena
Jurinac, as the Countess. Her
excellence in Mozart opera was
apparent. Her beautifully subtle
voice, her tonal variations and
the pure line of her singing, did
not falter. The brilliant acting
and lovely voice of Sesto
Bruscantini as the count’s valet
ran hers a good second.
Joseph Post took the music
along at a slower and more
delicate pace than at the first
performance—so much so that
the performance lasted 20
minutes longer and the company
in general showed marked
improvement.
“The Magic Flute”
“The Magic Flute,” the Aus-
tralian Opera Company’s second
offering, was the last instrument
Mozart took-up to express his
astounding talent, and out of it
he got some of his ripest music. It
is commonly asserted that it was
his interest in Freemasonry that
took him to it and that, in
collaboration with his crack-
brained librettist, Schikaneder,
who was a member of the same
lodge, he tried to make it a
satire on Maria Theresa, who
had put a ban on the Freemasons
and was using armed troops to
break up the lodges.
It might be so —other geniuses
have been activated by less
worthy motives —but whatever
the motivation it doesn’t show in
Mozart’s music. The form of
“The Magic Flute’’ might be
best described as Christmas
panto. It has its good queen, its
wicked fairy disguised as the
priest of Isis, its dragon and its
clowns who have no perceptible
relation to the action.
The difference is that the
goodies and the baddies and the
wise and the foolish all sing
equally noble music. That
Mozart succeeded in glorifying
his Christmas panto, is a tribute
to the magic of his music ; it
was a tribute to the Australian
Elizabethans that they succeeded
in making the clotted nonsense of
the libretto sound gay, profound
and dignified according to the
occasion, and they would prob-
ably have done so even if sundry
foreign importations had been
omitted.
The importations are in world-
class, but the general standard
of the voices was excellent and
Joseph Post and his orchestra
were terrific. As Sarastro, the
high-priest, Stanley Clarkson was
superb in voice and action, Sena
Jurinac, as Pamina, gave a
polished performance and
Geoffrey Chard was delightful as
Papageno. Stefan Haag was
responsible for a masterly
production.
&
Pekarek
Rudolph Pekarek had a nicely
balanced programme for his latest
Brisbane subscription concerts.
To match the vitality of Beet-
hoven’s Eighth Symphony there
was the Ninth of Shostakovich,
in many ways the lightest of the
Russian’s recent works though
some of its frivolities which
sound pleasant enough at first
do not wear well. For all that,
this was a convincing perform-
ance, admirably controlled, and
scoring its greatest success in
the reflective passages of the
work. In the slow movement
even the bassoon was able to
rise to lyrical heights rare for
that instrument.
The Beethoven Symphony,
pure musical gold throughout,
came at the end of the pro-
gramme after the orchestra’s
enthusiasm had taken a batter-
ing from a hot breathless even-
ing and a listless audience. It
was not without stirring
moments, but fell short of
achieving the sense of elation
inherent in the music.
Fernando Germani was a self-
effacing soloist in a Handel
Organ Concerto. His playing
was a graceful interlude in the
concert, and it was refreshing
to hear the organ played with
such clarity— too often it sounds
like a grumpy dragon trying to
shake the ball about its founda-
tions.
In this company, Hamilton
Harty’s “Comedy Overture” was
heavy-handed gaiety. Much
more entertaining were some old
tunes from the south of France,
arranged by Darius Milhaud'
i -e modern orchestration added
a touch of acerbity to their
antique liveliness, and the strong
rhythms had the proper effect of
setting the feet tapping.
D. J. M.
*i« *z* *
Germani
The Vatican’s titular organist
began his Sydney season with an
exposition of clear, fluent and
scintillating playing, always at
his most authoritative in the more
majestic pages, as in the wonder-
fully serene middle section of
Bach’s Toccata, Adagio and
Fugue in C and in the contem-
plative phrases of Cesar Franck’s
“Grande Piece Symphonique.”
In the whirling rapid passages
of the Fugue of the Bach the
weaving of the separate melodies
was effected calmly and in tone
of shining purity, while his
masterful touch made the most
intricate rhythmic counterpoint
seem the simplest of operations.
Another device — the long-sus-
tained note accompanied by
rapid passage-work — was an
object-lesson in co-ordination of
feet and hands.
Even allowing for the spiritual
quality inherent in the Franck
work, the programme was pre-
ponderantly secular in content.
Handel’s Prelude and Fugue in
F Minor, with its lush harmonies,
strong melodies and firm struc-
ture, and.Daquin’s tenth “Noel,”
with the organ’s immense
resources trimmed to meet its
light graces, provided a fascinat-
ing study in contrasts of com-
positorial style.
S. W. K.
It is not everybody’s cup of
tea to spend two hours listening
to a couple of thousand tin-
w'histles belching sound, so one
marvelled at the comfortably full
Town Hall for Germani’s second
Sydney programme — perhaps
some wanted to know if the
Town Hall’s kist o’ whustles still
whistled. As 8.15 approached,
the lights slowly dimmed and
there was a general hush. The
little man in tails was applauded
loudly as he made his way up
to the organ ; then, a brilliant
spotlight sliced through the dark
hall and showered on to the
console.
Germani drew a few stops,
pressed several pistons and
launched into Bach’s Prelude and
Fugue in D. The Prelude, with
its opening fortissimo pedal
scale-passage, was done vigor-
ously, and the intricate Fugue
taken at a slightly slower pace
than most recorded
doubt in deference to the organ’s
rather heavy pneumatic action.
Then, a Pastorale by Pasquini,
gently flowing and reflective,
with plenty of scope for soft
individual registers. Bach’s
showy transcription of a Vivaldi
Concerto in A Minor followed,
after which the Vatican organist
slid off the organ-stool, bowed
a few times and disappeared
backstage.
He was back after the interval
to play Mozart’s Fantasia in F
Minor, with its chunks of
musical cement in the allegro.
In the andante, Germani
extracted from the 120 stops a
quite amazing array of orchestral
colors. At times, above the
“double-basses,” one could catch
“violins,” “flutes” or “oboes.”
Lastly, Max Reger’s Fantasia
on the Chorale “How Brightly
Shines the Morning Star,” in the
fifth variation of which Germani
played the melody in octaves on
the pedals.
Then the clapping started, and
he obliged with three encores —
two Bachs and a Widor —before
they switched off the wind.
A. W.


Eruption
BY "DRIFTWOOD FOURWINDS"
I WAS nursing a lone beer
in the bar of the Kamerang
pub at ten-o’clock on a
sunny morning when in
breezed “Potty” Potter.
I was the first, sole customer,
and the barman was too busy
stoking-up the freezer with
bottles for the day’s fray to be
free to yarn ; so, perched in my
laundered come-to-town whites,
I had been amusing myself
absorbing the parade evolving
outside the window.
Across the puddle-rutted road
faced the corrugated-iron shop-
fronts of Chinese traders, their
windows barricaded by pusil-
lanimous bars and wire-mesh.
In the doorways squatted de-
hydrated old cadavers of
Oriental women in loose pink
trousers, contemplating with
tranced eyes that seemed to hold
communion with the occult.
Knots of boys strode past with
a skip in their step and their
limbs swinging cleanly; the sun
splashing on their pelts as on
polished bronze gongs. When
bright new laplaps swayed on
their thighs or gaily-printed
kerchiefs adorned their necks or
hibiscus-blossoms bloomed in
their thicket of hair you could
guess they had arrived fresh into
town for a jaunt.
A jeep would hurtle juddering
over the ruts, loaded with Malay-
mixture faces, and the boys
would scatter, crimson-stained
broad lips giggling. Under the
verandas other indolent choco-
late figures clustered wistfully
about the windows of the trade-
stores, computing the prices of
the fascinatingly desirable Hong
Kong - manufactured trinkets
within, against the number of
hole-in-the-middle New Guinea
shilling-pieces hidden in their
clutched coconut-frond plaited
baskets. A limousine-taxi would
cruise by with the glossy
shoulders of a sophisticated Tolai
behind the wheel and a while-
attired red-faced master among
the rear cushions.
Then a pair of marys might
mannequin past, and excitement
would stir under the awnings.
The high-spirited “Wowyas” and
salacious remarks would evoke
self-conscious feminine smirks
and swayings of hips and
breasts under their tissuey
blouses. Some of the South
Sussex women have a cast of
cheekbones that presses their
eyes to an Egyptian appearance.
When the swept, Nefertiti-effect
is crowned by a peroxide-golden
halo, combined with a delicacy
of limb and shy manner, the
picture, I was deciding, is not
repellent.
Perhaps it was as well that
Potty’s short jaunty figure in
T-singlet and blue denims
materialised in the doorway
at that point.
“Well, spare me days!” he
roared. “If it isn’t the dark
sardonic dial of Horrie Wells!”
“Am I correct in surmising
that the approaching vegetation
is the hirsute antennae of H. F.
Potter, Esquire?” I inquired
rhetorically, peering at him under
my shading Hand like a statue
of an explorer eyeing bright
distances.
“Your optics serve you
accurately,” he said, hoisting
onto the next stool. “What's this?
Grogging-on assiduously at half-
past-ten on a Thursday morning?
I was under the impression that
you were being paid to manage
a plantation.”
“Hmm,” I counter-attacked.
“I heard that you had signed-on
as the mate of the Binatang.
Likewise I observe that she is
berthed down at the wharf dis-
charging copra. Does the ship
run more smoothly in the absence
of its new supernumerary
mate?”
“Oh, well, er .. .er ... ahem,”
he coughed into a fruity chuckle.
“One has to have an occasional
respite from the White Man’s
Burden, don’t you know. But I
see that you do know,” he added
sarcastically, up-ending my
bottle into a fresh glass.
Potty was a pert, short man
with a round head on which
his scalp was beginning to show.
He had been endowed with no
distinctive features other than
an amplifier-voice. But to this,
with keen psychological instinct,
he had added an enormous ginger
moustache like the outstretched
wings of a bird. Under it his
mouth lurked hidden, so that
when his teeth peeped out coyly
in a smile an unexpected charm
was revealed. Without the voice
or the brush he would have been
insignificant. With the larynx
only he would have been
grotesque. But plus the mou-
stache he was a triumph. And a
personality.
Potty has tried a turn at half
of all the possible occupations
in the Islands —except mission-
ing. And at different times I
have earned my beer- and kaikai-
money from most of the various
departments of the other fifty
per cent. So that between us our
conversation was comprehensive
and far-ranging.
A BOTTLE or so later Potty
. brushed the froth off his
squirrel-tail moustache and
asked, “Have you ever been to
the Malice Group, Horrie boy?”
“No,” I grinned. “Although
I’ve heard plenty about it. Seems
that out there you end-up either
going round the bend or putting
your revolver in your mouth
and jerking the trigger.”
“A modicum of exaggeration,
perhaps, but that description
would identify the place,” agreed
Potty. “We went foraging out
there after copra the trip before
this, and it was a disturbing
experience for me to view the
peak again after all the years
since I escaped. Particularly as
in the serene sunshine the island
reared so greenly benevolent it
was almost unrecognisable to
me. I was trapped there all of
a Nor’-west season one time, so
that Malian Island always looms
in my nightmares perpetually
stormy and dark and dripping
and animose.”
“What were you doing out
there?” I asked, becoming
interested.
“Looking after Lametia planta-
tion for four months to release
Xavier Gregson for leave,” he
explained.
“Probably you know that the
first ship to spy the island way
back in the early days was
called the Felice. And with the
customary egotism of the old
mariners they charted the
cluster as the Felice Islands.
However, when the Germans
planted it they usually referred to
the group by the native name
for the main island —Malian. It
was „ not until years later, with
the advent of the facetious Aus-
tralians, that some wry humorist
combined the two names and
christened the peak and its dot-
ting satellites the Malice Group.
“I’m telling you, boy. There
never was a title that fitted any-
thing more aptly. The forgotten
handful of individuals stationed
there seem devoted solely to the
occupation of justifying the nick-
name.
'THERE were three estates on
A my side of the island, Potty
went on—the one I was taking
care of, and about two miles
further along another two adjoin-
ing belonging to Bismarck
Plantations Co., Ltd.
The two company places were
managed by a couple of the
crankiest old hermits in the
Pacific. Their lives were devoted
to a feud. The only thoughts
that ever fluxed in their minds
were schemes for frustrating
each other. Every smallest action
they ever committed had its
origin, no matter how deviously
indirect, in the sole motive to
confound one another. Of course
when two old nitwits dedicate
their existence to one another,
even though in vehement enmity,
they really love each other basic-
ally, irrespective of their
incapacity to realise it.
Henry, the nearest to me, had
been a schoolteacher, which was
easily detectable from his speech.
He would never say “It is me”
when the expression should have
been “It is I.” Silvery-haired
and slight, with silver-rimmed
pince-nez spectacles, his manner
was prissy and prim and sterile.
Perhaps a trifle too old-
womanish.
It seemed that, after twenty
years in the classroom, the con-
clusion had descended on him
like a bolt of lightning one day
that he loathed children. Why
it took him all of twenty years
to wake-up to the little horrors
I don’t know. But from that
enlightenment he graduated to
copra-plantations.
Matt, who sat on the estate
further over, had been a cattle-
station manager who had
developed an antipathy towards
the Australian blackfellow and
had reached New Guinea in the
process of seeking some region
where abos. were not among the
fauna. That was Matt’s version,
anyway. Henry scornfully •
denied it, and insisted that Matt
had been a boss-drover who had
skipped the Northern Territory
before an investigation into the
correct ownership of a mob of
overland cattle.
That story could have been
mere spite, though, because Matt
used to retaliate with the theory
that Henry had been expelled
from teaching for interfering
with little girls. Whether dry
old Henry had ever been capable
of such things I don’t know, but
with regard to Matt I was pre-
pared to believe he could not
have been a boss-drover with
elastic ethics, because he exuded
the manner. He was hearty and
humorous and crude. Perhaps a
trace too earthy.
Years before, the two of them
had associated moderately
smoothly. At least, as well as
anyone ever does with a com-
pulsory neighbor on a frustrating
isolated island. But the time
arrived when Henry, who had
been managing the Far place in
those days, attained sixty-two
and retired to Australia. Matt
then took the opportunity to
apply for a transfer to Henry’s
place because it possessed a
better bungalow.
A new young bloke arrived up
fresh from home and Mother to
occupy Matt’s plantation. How-
ever, the young fellow’s ability
to endure the Malice Group’s
mood and lack of dance-halls
and cinemas expired about the
same time as Henry’s patience
with Melbourne’s Antarctic
temperatures and lack of
environment for free eccentricity.
But when Henry returned, Matt
had settled comfortably into his
estate, and Henry was compelled
to accept all that was available
—Matt’s old place.
From that situation the
ensuing animosity was engen-
dered. Each found himself
managing a plantation which
had formerly been in the charge
of the other, and they threw
all their energy and ardor as
fuel into the fire of rivalry to
outdo each other’s previous
records of copra-production.
THIRST time I visited Henry I
was relaxed in a reclining
cane-chair in his main room.
His bungalow was only a native-
material construction, the usual
style, sago-palm-leaf roof on
bamboo battens with latticed
sago-stalk walls and split-limbom
slat-floors. The old boy had a
passion for tidiness and clean-
liness, and by the application
of plenty of glossy paint and
much scrubbing an effect of
immaculateness and light filled
the open room. An effect dimmed
somewhat by the constant grey-
blanket of the outside sky.
Shelves of books neatly lined
the walls. No more than a
bottle-top’s throw outside the
windows a high, frightening,
purple swell rolled in from
infinity' and burst against the
cliffs, exploding the salt spray
high into the air. The house-
garden was withered, and the
vegetation all along a belt a
hundred yards in from the cliff-
edge was devastated, poisoned by


GOODYEAR TUBELESS OUTPERFORM
ALL OTHER TYRES
mV)
one
ft
most eftgo
riess oo ** n
**&
teftss
I
\
X
1
X
X
\
X
N
X
>1
\
n
V
m
%
1
m
:•. o :•
Check this
convincing register of
ADVANTAGES
Better
Puncture Protection
When a Goodyear Tubeless
Tyre is punctured, the amaz-
ing Grip-Sea! Construction
clings tightly to the punctur-
ing object, preventing loss of
air and permitting the com-
pletion of the journey without
changing tyres on the road.
increased
Blowout Safety
Most blowouts are caused,
not by cuts, but by bruises.
With Goodyear's Grip-Seal
Construction and extra
strong tyre body, the break
enlarges very slowly. Result
a slow leak rather than
a dangerous blowout.
Increased Mileage
Lighter weight means
cooler-running with Tube-
less Tyres. Then, too, there's
no friction between tyre
and tube to generate tyre-
darnaging heat. Particu-
larly at high speeds, you
get a cooler-running tyre
that gives LONGER, safer
tyre life.
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS
me wind-flung brine. The
bungalow vibrated from the
violence of the surge so close at
hand.
“I do not see, Mr. Potter,”
Henry was complaining, “why I
should be persecuted by being
forced to live in this disgraceful
shack. That mansion was built
for me under my supervision with
all my requested alterations in-
corporated. And it is not right
that is now occupied by another
person who was perfectly satisfied
to exist in a er fowlhouse
like this for so many years.”
In limped Henry’s awkward
hairy anthropoid of a boy with
glasses, water and rhum-negrita
on a tray. Henry in starched
shirt and laundered long trousers
poured the drinks and stuttered
in his nervous manner, “I expect
a considerable bonus this year,
Mr. Potter. I have instituted
radical improvements to this
estate since I took charge. You
wouldn’t credit the shocking
state of neglect the previous
manager allowed it to—er —
descend to. I was compelled to
erect new buildings throughout.
My greatest problem was inject-
ing discipline into the laborers.
They had been allowed to slack
as they wished and enjoyed a
perpetual holiday. 1 have almost
doubled the amount of copra-
production during my sojourn
here.
“One of my very first actions
was to eject my predecessor’s
houseboy and install my own
boy, Muan here,” and he
bestowed a tender, grandfatherly
smile on the hovering gorilla.
“I did not care for my pre-
decessor’s mankimasta, as he
calls his houseboys. You under-
stand that the word ‘mankimasta’
has an obscene connotation.”
He added a malicious rider:
“I do not doubt, however, that
the employment of the expres-
sion is—er—justified in the case
of my particular predecessor.”
VX/TIEN I first called on Matt
I found him bent over the
innards of a jeep in his garage.
His backbone creaked as he
straightened-up inquiringly. Im-
mediately a grin creased his
warty, whiskery face. He slapped
his greasy hand hastily on his
tattered overalls before present-
ing it to be shaken. Almost
before the introduction was com-
pleted he launched into a swear-
ing tirade. “Gawd, sometimes I
wonder if I’m ever goin’ to get
these vehicles straight after the
way they were previously ruined.
That stupid old coot Henry
don t know the difference
between a sewing-machine and
an egg-beater! Come and have
a drink.”
Matt’s house was a suburban-
style fibro-asbestos building, and
you could see that his boys
worked to keep it straight, but
Matt scattered grimy machine-
parts and tools and cowboy-
magazines and muddy boots
about faster than they could
cope. He would kick a dog off a
chair and collapse into it. “It
absolutely beats me why they
took old Henry back after the
botch he made of this place for
years,” he declared.
Fair dinkurn,” he continued,
he didn’t use to manage it.
His boss-boys did. He had about
nine of ’em. All superfluous.
They used to appear at the
veranda-rail every afternoon and
report a mob o’ lies. And the
old idiot would be satisfied and
pay ’em terrific wages, while a
hundred yards past the house the
plantation was just a neglected
jungle. I’ve nearly doubled
copra-production since I took
ove;,”
A handsome youngster, with a
refreshing smile and wrapped in
a white laplap, brought in a
plate of sandwiches.
To prove how ignorant the
eld coot is ; see this lad of mine,
\\eben? When I transferred
irom the other place to here 1
nad to leave him behind because
his contract to that estate had
not expired then. Along comes
Henry and turfs him out of his
house with a snort and demotes
him onto husking copra!” Matt’s
voice had risen to an indignant
shrill, but then dropped to a
scornful tone. “The smartest
mankimasta in New Guinea!
“Henry preferred his own
houseboy, as he calls him. How
ignorant can you get? He’s
lived in the Island twenty years
and don’t understand pidgin yet.
In pidgin houseboy means a
house that boys live in. The
correct term for a boy who works
in the master’s house is ‘manki-
masta.’ Henry reckons the word
has a shady meaning. I wouldn’t
know. My mind don’t run along
such channels. I only know that
it’s the word boys use, so it
must be right. There is only one
correct version of pidgin; the
pidgin they speak. It’s their
lingo. They invented it.”
pOTTY interrupted his yarn to
J order a new bottle from the
barman, and added: That gives
you a sample of their dialogue,
and the respect and admiration
the two old fellows held for
each other.
Matt was two years older than
Henry, by the way, and, at the
time I’m telling of, Henry was
65. They were both too old for
plantations, had lived alone too
much, and had stayed in the
Islands too long.
The road from my place to
Matt’s passed almost by Henry’s
door. Whenever Matt’s boys
visited my boys of a weekend
they always had to circumambu-
late by a back track, because if
Henry spotted them passing his
house he would unleash his
mastiff and urge it after them,
cackling with glee as they
scattered in terror from the
bounding monster at their heels.
Once Henry sent his truck to
the Mission on the other side of
Matt’s place to borrow a dozen
bags of rice. That must have
been one of the rare, incredible
occasions when the sky was not
leaking its morose dribble and
the driver-boy neglected to take
a tarpaulin. On the way back
dark clouds began to coagulate,
with the threat of thoroughly
wiping-out the rain-arrears
accrued during the brief lull.
So the driver-boy paused at
Matt’s house just as the first
spatters of the deluge stung down
onto the bags of rice. He begged
for the loan of a tarpaulin. “A
tarpaulin! A tarpaulin!”
repeated Matt incredulously, as
if he had been asked for a tap-
dancing octopus. “I haven’t got
one.” He had three.
Such was the sort of Christian
antics they repeatedly dealt each
other.
The major incident, in which
they buried their teeth in each
other’s throats, mounted to a
climax just before I served my
period and left the island.
It so happened that both of
their estates were divided-up into
different sections by lines of ficus
rubber-trees as are many copra-
plantations, and hedged in
between the two properties
spread a block which by title
belonged to Henry's plantation.
However, this area was bisected
by a deep eroded ravine, and
for that reason, by consent, for
as far back as anyone could
remember, the division on Matt’s
side of the ravine had always
been harvested by Matt’s planta-
tion and the section on Henry's
side had always been harvested
by Henry’s plantation.
Often of a weekend I would
carry a, rifle and wander high up
on the flanks of the volcano
stalking wild pigs. The back
areas of all our estates extended
well up the hillsides, and on the
rear boundaries of their two
plantations, where the ground
reared on edge, the gorges
dropped tremendous and the
contorted palms pointed in every
direction but straight upwards,
the uncollected coconuts of years
rotted knee-deep in the gloom
beneath the undergrowth. If the
pair were ever in search of more
nuts to increase their output
th6y had no need to look else-
where than up on their back
slopes.
But, of course, if they had
even attempted to investigate the
rear regions their arteries would
have snapped like glass-tubes at
the first steep climb, long before
they had so much as approached
the upper reaches. So for per-
haps fifteen years all they knew
of their domains was what could
be inspected from a jeep or
tractor bumping along the main
tracks.
Because that view displayed
scrupulous tidiness they lived in
the dream and delusion that all
beyond their perimeters of vision
lay equally as neat and
thoroughly harvested. Conse-
quently, when they began with
gusto the no-rules no-ethics feud
to outdo each other’s previous
copra-production, the only
source of additional supply that
Henry’s' T eye could discern was
the other side of the ravine on
this block of palms which legally
belonged to his estate.
C'O he two-finger-typed out a
request to his head-office for
the prevailing arrangement to be
rescinded, for the reason that the
manager of the other estate was
neglecting and abusing the other
half. He asserted that the ravine
was no obstacle to him; he
intended to construct a bridge ;
and maintained that as the total
sector was legitimately part of
his plantation only he should
be allowed the mandate to
harvest copra from it.
It is doubtful whether Henry’s
allegation of neglect against Matt
convinced his Sydney office an
iota, for they kept a corres-
pondence-file bulging with
twenty years of accusation and
recrimination from the two old
boys, and understood them per-
fectly. It is more likely the
influencing factor was that both
estates, although in reality
belonging, to the parent firm,
were registered in the names of
two different subsidiary com-
panies. Maybe the actual share-
holders were slightly different;
in any case, the company's head-
office insisted that the exact value
of the copra which Matt dried
from the nuts he harvested on this
section had to be strictly credited
to Henry’s estate after his costs
of producing it had been debited.
What pricked Henry was his
knowledge that Matt was clan-
destinely adding most of this
copra to his own plantation’s
output to boost his production-
figures and crediting only a false,
negligible share to Henry’s estate.
Formerly Henry had manipu-
lated this trick for years, and
now that the positions were
reversed he, quite accurately, held
no doubt that Matt was indulg-
ing in the same skulduggery.
In allowing Henry to handle
solely the entire area rightly
belonging to him, the general
manager may have seen a way
to eliminate the considerable
existing extra account-work.
Whatever the explanation, by the
ship two months following
Henry received a directive, and
Matt a carbon-copy, instructing
Henry to proceed with the con-
struction of a bridge, on whose
completion the whole of the
sector would become his jurisdic-
tion.
Matt instantly scrawled an
angry, illiterate retort to his
superiors, but they replied that
they had already issued instruc-
tions and curtly requested him to
abide by them. I visited Matt
only a few hours after he
had received this answer, and
the purple blood-capillaries on
his nose stood out as defined as
the veins of a pawpaw-leaf. I
thought the old fellow was on
the verge of a stroke, he was so
puffed in the face and furious.
Later, to Henry’s insistent
queries, I admitted cautiously
(Continued on next page)


that Matt was not precisely
rapturous at the new arrange-
ment. That was sufficient hint
for Henry. He fully visualised
Matt’s indignant wrath, and
gloated unrestrainedly.
Henry’s gloat diminished by
degrees as his bridge-construc-
tion progressed, for it became
more and more apparent daily
that he had tackled a spiky
problem in promising to span the
ugly ravine.
For a start, he had no solid
logs within hand. Colossal trees
reared from the gorges and
ridges on the inaccessible upper
regions, but down on the flats
of his estate all that he could
muster was coconut-palm trunks.
The ravine gaped thirty-feet
across, and ordinarily palm-
trunks, though rather spindly,
might have sufficed if the old
boy had been able to shore
piles under the middle of the
bridge. But this watercourse
dropped in a V, and secret water
trickled Lord knows how far
below, out of sight beneath
tangled greenery.
As the problem grew more
apparent Matt developed the
habit of daily chuttering along
in his jeep to inspect the project
from his side of the gorge. He
would cut the rattling engine,
step out, cane-stick in hand, pant
to the edge, and, hands on hips,
ridicule the operations in
facetious idiomatic pidgin to
Henry’s unfortunate boss-boy
and helpers grappling with logs
and ropes and saws across the
gulf.
One morning Matt’s visit
coincided with Henry’s inspec-
tion just at the stage when eight
palm-trunks, by Herculean
efforts, had been manoeuvred into
position across the gap. Indubit-
ably they spanned the ravine
with a five-foot lip over the earth
on each side, but across that
distance they hung uneasily
tenuous, with a pronounced sag
in the middle.
Rude old Matt guffawed across:
“Remember, Henry, the order
said that I was to keep control
of this half ‘until the bridge is
completed.’ Haw! Haw! Looks
as if I’ll have control for a good
many years yet. What are you
gunna keep that dropsical belly
up with?- Skyhooks? Who’s
gunna be the first to drive the
tractor acrorss with a load of
copra? You? Haw! Haw!”
The numerous wattles of
Henry’s dewlap swelled
ominously, indicative that his
blood-pressure had been boosted
to a new high, but he ignored the
ribaldry and grimly continued
instructing his boss-boy. He
explained to me later, with much
spluttering, that to have replied
would have been to lose dignity
by indulging in the same sort
of ill-bred uncouthness as “that
other person ”
Henry, in his bamboo-and-
leaf hut, began to lose sleep over
his bridge. Which probably
meant that he achieved none at
all, for both old boys had reached
the age when they were satisfied
by about four hours’ doze a
night. Not that his inflexible
determination to score over Matt
and secure the copra from the
other half of his block even
slightly diminished or wavered.
But the knotty technical prob-
lems of the structure were in-
creasing Henry’s rum-consump-
tion.
Finally he decided that props
rammed into each side of the
perpendicular walls of the
ravine and slanting diagonally
up to the centre of the bridge
would supply the necessary
support and strength. Subse-
quently his boss-boy opined that
they would not. Henry main-
tained that they would. His boss-
boy expressed the belief that such
stays would prove utterly inade-
quate. Henry asserted his stead-
fast conviction that such stays
would be entirely satisfactory.
Furthermore, he insisted that
their erection be commenced
forthwith.
Grumbling, the boss-boy him-
self, dangling from a rope, per-
formed most of the pick-work—■
hacking holes in the walls to
insert the props. Four stays were
thus positioned and lashed to
the belly of the bridge by cane-
vines. And ficus-poles were laid
horizontally across the top to
provide the table-surface for the
tractor-wheels.
TTENRY then pronounced that
the bridge was safe for the
boss-boy to drive the vehicle
across.
The boss-boy contended fer-
vently that the structure was
not.
Henry declared that any boss-
boy of his would immediately
without hesitation drive the
tractor over and that anybody
declining to do so automatically
relinquished any position or
status that person might happen
to possess.
His boss-boy vehemently
expressed his definite preference
for being a healthy intact un-
employed kanaka rather than a
deceased boss-boy. In addition,
the boy intimated pregnantly
that he would be pleased to drive
the tractor about on the other
side after Master had manipu-
lated it across. Master huffily
declared that he was eagerly
willing to do so, but regrettably
in his old age his eyesight had
declined, and, much against his
inclinations, this prevented him
driving. Being blocked at that
stalemate, Henry grumpily
stalked off with the boss-boy’s
derisive grin following him.
I learned soon after I arrived
on the island that visiting either
of them in the evenings was not
encouraged. They would keep
one ear locked attentively to
their radio-programmes whilst
bending the other ear irritably in
my direction. However, I knew
that Matt’s radio had been dead
for a fortnight preceding this
stage, so it happened that, the
night following, I was sitting with
him in his bungalow sharing his
evening meal.
Matt’s driver-boy was a cousin
of Henry’s boss-boy, so that Matt
was in possession of all the
latest developments. Continually
throughout the meal he laughed
gleefully. “So Henry can’t per-
suade anybody to drive the
tractor acrorss his patent bridge,
eh? Hee! Hee! If the old coot
has so much confidence in the
frightful-lookin’ death-trap why
don’t he drive it acrorss himself?
Haw! Haw!”
Matt’s boy glided in and
mumbled at his ear that his boss-
boy desired to speak to bister at
the back-door.
Grumbling, “Why the hell
didn’t he speak this afternoon?
It’s night-time now,” Matt
excused himself to me and
stumped out.
For a few moments I caught
only the low murmurs from the
rear. Then Matt’s roar blared,
“Wonem ! Oli bungim nau?” *
“Yesa, Masta. Nau nait, tasol
igat mun na oli inap bilong
lukluk, na oli wok long stilim
nau.”
“Nalafela lapun Masta istap
wan-taim?”
“Emi stap ”
Matt swore violently and
wholeheartedly and full-
bloodedly. He came charging
back into the room with
massacre in his eyes.
“What’s up?” I queried, rising.
“That bloody Henry is down
at the bridge now with all his
boys, and he’s got ’em scavenging
in the moonlight gathering nuts
from under the palms on my
side and carrying them in bags
over their shoulders back to his
tractor on the other side! Grab
that torch. Come on!”
As he trotted for the garage
Matt bawled over his shoulder
to his departing boss-boy to run
to the boys’ dormitories and
rouse every boy on the place and
order them to make for the
bridge as fast as their legs could
patter, to join us there.
“Yessah,” yelped the lad
enthusiastically, and accelerated
off.
In his furious haste Matt
flooded the jeep’s cylinders, then,
in trying to clear them, exhausted
the tired battery, so that the
starter-motor jibbed and refused
to turn more. S w e a r in g
dementedly, he lashed and
ranted at his houseboys as they
gaspingly pushed the vehicle to
the lip of the down-slope. The
wheels commeftced to roll. I
sprang in beside Matt. The
houseboys flung themselyes in a
tumble into the rear.
Matt released the clutch-pedal
with a jolt that nearly smashed
my head through the windscreen,
and the engine blared. Jarring
over the lumps and puddles we
clattered along the grass-hedged
lane, with the headlight-illumi-
nated coconut-palms spearing
like child’s-tale beanstalks up to
castles in the night.
I had thoroughly revised my
notions about older drivers
being more cautious drivers by
the time we reached the bridge.
Matt killed the engine, and we
sprang out.
TYIMLY in the moonshade
U under a near-by palm a boy
stood irresolutely with a bag half-
full of coconuts. Further behind,
other similar figures with bags
were ranged.
“What are you doing? What
are you doing, hey?” Matt
screamed, plunging at him over
the bracken. “Stealing my nuts!”
he raged, as he lambasted the
boy over the head and shoulders
with his walking-stick.
The boy dropped his bag and
fled.
Roaring incoherently and
flourishing the stick, Matt
charged at the others. After a
brief hesitation they clutched
their laplaps securely with one
hand, and, holding their sacks
in the other, bounded in flight
over the vegetation towards the
bridge.
“Cut ’em orf, Potty. Your
legs are' younger than mine,”
roared the old fellow hoarsely.
“Cut ’em orf!”
1 launched into a half-hearted
stagger after them, but then
slowed. The argument was not
mine. That I happened to be in
Matt’s camp when the incident
erupted did not imply that I
was partisan to him. The old
boys could wage their ridiculous
adolescent vendetta on their own
without my participation.
Wheezing like a leaky bellows
and cursing between gasps, Matt
floundered after them towards
the bridge. When he reached its
edge he perceived for the first
time in the moonlight’s softness
that Henry and his tractor con-
fronted him, motionlessly and
silently, at the other side. Matt
collapsed onto a boulder to
recover his breath. I straggled
up slowly.
As soon as his lungs settled,
Matt swore malignly in Henry’s
direction: “You! I’ll get you
fired over this. Stealing my nuts
at night like a bush-cat scroung-
ing in a rubbish-tin after dark.
You’ll have to repay me every
single nut!”
“You assume too much
prerogative, sir,” pronounced
Henry coldly. “I will have you
reprimanded for interfering with
my boys in the execution of their
duty and for trespass on my
property. My instructions stated
that as soon as this bridge was
complete, / was to harvest all the
copra from this area, and you
were to cease to have any further
control over it. Well, the bridge
is finished.”
“What do you mean,
finished?” hooted Matt, rising
to his feet- and approaching
Henry menacingly across the
bridge. “Your tractor can’t
cross the useless thing.”
“But my boys can, and I have
decided to harvest this area with-
out benefit of the tractor. Which
I am fully entitled to do. The
bridge is completed. You have
no right to be standing here
now. It is only my magnanimity
that restrains me from ordering
my boys to carry you bodily
away.”
Matt exploded a blast like the
safety-valve on a boiler releasing
a jet of pressure.
“Carry me!” he choked.
“Just wait until my boys arrive
and we’ll see who removes who.”
Thrust forward, he stuck an
angry fist under the upright
Henry’s nose. “As for your
bridge . . . you won’t have one
tomorrow. I’m going to issue
my boys with axes and save a
lot of lives by cutting the
dangerous thing down.”
Henry abruptly abandoned
his dignified attitude at this
threat and spluttered with rage.
“If I see a boy of yours any-
where near this vicinity with an
axe I’ll go up and punch your
nose; old man though you are.”
“Old man!” screamed Matt.
“I’m only two years older than
you and walk ten years younger
If you think you can damage
me, just have a go now!”
FROM that tossed spark the
inflammable situation
ignited. One instant the pair
were crouched pugnaciously with
noses together like belligerent
fighting-cocks. The next they
were embroiled in a scuffling
flurry of flailing arms. The
gathering of boys at one side of
the ravine, and myself with a
couple at the other, stood rooted,
gaping and dumbfounded.
Picture the setting: on the
brooding cone of an extinct
volcano lost in the limitless
expanses of the Pacific Ocean:
night, with massing squadrons of
clouds and the moon’s silver
aura on the silent peaks, and
below, the standing regiments of
coconut-palms upright at atten-
tion: a black crevasse splitting
the earth, and spanning above it
a swaying bridge on which
struggled two feudal lords
watched by their motionless
minions of the two camps on
either side. The stage was set
for an orgasm of drama;
for a battle of titans such as
might reverberate down through
history as did Horatius’ stand on
another bridge in ancient times.
But instead of a thundering
clash of giants it was a pathetic
scuffle of opaque ghosts ; the
ineffectual scratchings of a pair
of shrunken, animated effigies,
the surviving relics of two men
who had lusted half a century
before. Their poor knobbly
bones rattled on the bridgework
as they rolled. Their breath
gasped frighteningly through
ancient, perished lungs.
Full of the absurdity of the
spectacle, I bounded forward
arid, calling Henry’s boss-boy
to help me, levered them apart.
I clasped struggling Matt around
his fragile waist and lifted him
with no more effort than restrain-
ing a wriggling fox-terrier. The
boss-boy held Henry.
The vile epithets they spat at
each other between shuddering
gasps for air! It was an educa-
tion to my juvenile ears. I lugged
the squirming Matt over to the
jeep and deposited him in a
seat. I revved the engine, and
just as I eased it into gear and
began to wrestle with the
steerin?-wheel to manoeuvre the
jeep back onto the road the
Malice Group’s rain, which had
held off long enough to observe
the scene in the moonlight, closed
in and dropped on our heads in
torrents, impressing the stamp
of termination on the incident.
Back at the house I propped
old Matt into a chair, dabbed
antiseptic on his abrasions,
agreed “Yes-yes” to all his
excited claims, forced a brandy
into him and tucked him into
bed. Then I walked down to
Henry’s and repeated the process,
seeing him also safely in bed
before I set out in the moon-
filtered drizzle for home.
I reached my own cot well
after exhausted yet
chuckling. Next morning the
ship’s siren hooted in the bay
and Xayier Gregson’s face
appeared fresh back from leave.
Four days later I departed with
the ship from the island.
POTTY’S tale had held me.
“Did you ever hear how the
bridge story finally finished,
Potty?” I asked.
“Eh?” he ejaculated, looking
up, rolling with his fingers the
brush of his moustache. “Listen,
boy. Between those two on that
island no incident ever ends.
Insults of twenty years ago are
as fresh in their minds as if they
occurred yesterday. They are
merely chapters in a continuing,
accumulating story.
“When we wended out there
last trip, as the ship reached their
plantations in turn, each
clambered aboard spitting vitriol
in the direction of the other as
fanatically as ever.”
“What!” I exclaimed. “Don’t
tell me they are.j/i'W out there
alive and retaliating?”
“My oath,” chuckled Potty.
“Thinner and more wrinkled,
but more intense than ever. 1
don’t reckon they’ll ever
give up.” , ,
. “Well,” I said, “I thought the
New Guinea islands were
supposed to be unhealthy. Those
two must have discovered some
preserving elixir.”
“Yeah. And I know what it
is, too,” leered Potty meaning-
fully at his amber beer with its
generous froth. “Heres to
equally long and hearty fives
for both of us, Horrie me boy.
And he raised his glass with a
wink.
UNDER THE BRIDGE
Where the wide-windowed flats
gaze into the Harbor’s garden,
where the round - shouldered
bridge
bears with the gossiping fishwife
tides,
holds like a prison’s warden
keys of access, keys of egress,
into and out of the hard day’s
labor.
Beneath the pylon’s dignity
the green and childish grass is
kept
well in its place, the small birds
there
are seen but barely heard unless
the angel passing wing has swept
the grits of noise, the dust of
sound
into the moment’s quiet corner,
has brushed the traffic to a
lull . . .
Then sudden splinters and bright
chips
of the birds’ callous song fly up
from the pylon’s cold and stony
foot;
kaleidoscopic chirps and quips
shake into shape, fall into place,
dew-glint in the grass and startle
a cupboard full of skeletal cats
from gutter dreams of righted
wrong
into a drunken bums’ rush
at the lawn’s pool of flying fish
till the dew-dropping sing-song
is a twittering spray, a shower of
spleen
and nine lives’ bad luck to the
cats.
Then noise comes down again
like a storm
over the sun of things, a burden
to the always overloaded hearing,
and the eyes turn to the gazing
flats
and away into the Harbor’s
garden ;
while, up above, old bent back
stands still and carries the weight
of day .
N.S.W.
BRUCE BEAVER.
SPRING MATTRESS
The mattress, the mattress
is a trampolino. Children,
children, when we tried to fly !
Remember ?
Children, children,
life is a trampolino, trampolino-
act with a
bounce, leap, turn and
fall, the three dimensions
of a merry world. O
lambkins, such
springy turf! O lambs,
why do we have to graduate
to become
tigh trope- walkers?
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


Faith in the
Future
\
0
It would have taken a courageous prophet to
have foretold as late as fifteen years ago that grains
of sand from Australian beaches would be going
into the manufacture of jet aircraft that would cut
across the sky faster than the speed of sound.
«
But it is happening: one more instance of how
daringly we can think and act in this remarkable
age.
Among the beach minerals it is rutile, source
of titanium, that is most in demand. Titanium is
light, strong as steel and highly resistant to heat
and corrosion. About ninety per cent, of its
present production is going into frames, engines and
parts for super-sonic jets.
America, Britain, Holland, West Germany
and France lead in the bidding for base material
to make it—and rutile commands a price of £ll5
to £l2O a ton, nearly ten times more than its
commercial cousin, zircon.
One authoritative estimate has put the
available reserves of rutile along our eastern coast
at 700,000 tons in high-grade deposits, and not
less than 1,500,000 tons in lower-grade. That
calculation was made when the range of activity
was mainly on northern New South Wales and
far south Queensland beaches.
But now the interest has extended right along
the coast. Applications for prospecting and
mineral rights go as far north as the tip of Cape
York Peninsula.
The question is not whether this wealth—an
estimated £7,000,000 this year—lies in the keeping
of our shores, but how far we should go in mining
it. My own view is that we should recover all the
commercial sands we can, provided always that
their extraction does not interfere with the use and
beauty of the beaches.
The progress of the world invites it. The
potential earning-value of the industry warrants
it. And it gives Australia an important place in
the field of international supply.
// Z/asA
7
Aleller for grandfather
By M. TRAILL BARTLEET
“t-vEG-TOP,” Mother said
YJ to me, “I want you to
X take this note across to
your grandfather.”
“You mean now?” I
answered in disbelief.
Mother nodded absently, as
she signed her name, blotted the
note and folded it. “I want your
grandfather to get it before he
goes home. It is important. You
won’t forget before you get
ihere?” she added with a touch
of anxiety.
The implied mistrust passed
me unnoticed. There was a
much graver issue at stake. I
felt it fitting to mention it.
“But, Mother, the whistle
hasn’t gone yet.”
“It will be quite all right this
time—l am asking you to go, do
you see? And it will blow, just
about the time you get there.
Go to his office; you know
where. And be careful.”
I was going to the mine with
an urgent note for my grand-
father ; going before the whistle
blew at three-o’clock. I felt the
importance of - this very keenly
as I went down the wide, stone
steps into the rear courtyard of
of the house. It sent me walking
sedately in the correct direction,
looking not to right or left or
downwards, but straight ahead,
the spotless envelope held in
front of me like a flag of truce.
The track worn in the grasses
ended a hundred yards ahead
in a post-and-rail fence, where
a beaten patch of earth showed
the scuffling of feet. I ignored
the overtures of a wagtail sitting
atop the fence, and never paused
to wonder if his feelings might
be hurt. I was going to the
mine.
Beyond the fence the track
picked itself up and wound
downwards to the huddle of high
black structures, passing the
powder-magazine on the right.
The green grass on each side
gave way to a scattering of black
coal as fine as grains of sand ;
a clump of bluebells swayed
delicately. The grass disappeared
altogether, and I was there.
I held my little flag of
importance in front of me, telling
everyone that I was there on
legitimate business.
The winking ponies were
plodding up out of the tunnel-
mouth ; the skips, with their
loads gleaming silver and black,
rattled behind them. The skip-
rope was a greasy snake twisting
between the rails. Even as I
watched, the whistle blew, and
the rhythm of noise, the clang
and the humming, the chug and
the clanking, slowed and
dwindled to a steady hum.
“Hullo, Snowy,” a miner
called to me. His smiling eyes
were ringed in white against the
grime of his face, his cap with
the little lamp was pushed back
on his head.
“I have to give a letter to my
grandfather,” I told him, and
was a little disappointed when he
nodded absently, as if this were
something of no importance.
I picked my way along the
path beside the skip - rails,
between covered machinery
mumbling to a standstill, amid
spurts of coal-dust, sniffing
appreciatively at the busy smell
of steaming ponies, sweating
men, grease and tar. The little
beaten track led me right through
the mine, to a small office grimy
with coal-dust, its one door
swinging outwards towards the
swamp.
■pAINT lettering, spelling
± Manager, advised the
unenlightened that this was my
grandfather’s office.
I approached the door care-
fully. Of course, I had been
there before, but never when the
mine was working—well, prac-
tically working. At other times
it had been at weekends, or an
afternoon late on pay-day, when
Grandfather, steel-blue eyes
twinkling, would count out our
pocket-money; sixpence and a
penny to th£ older ones, three-
pence and a penny to the
younger: It was never more,
never less, and . only given on
pay-days; a little hoard to be
saved, or spent carefully, for a
fortnight.
I peeped in the door. Grit-
laden cobweb, like black lace,
festooned the one window;
maps, charts, graphs and one or
two engravings were tacked on
unlined walls. The table, worn
smooth at the edges, held papers
stacked in neat heaps, weighted
down with lumps of coal, blue-
metal and the complete works of
Robert Burns in two volumes.
A long, thin pen threatened to
fall off the top of the inkwell,
and a pipe with a bent amber
stem was possibly responsible
for the thick smell of tobacco.
Everything was there but
Grandfather, his usual position
on the swivel-chair with horse-
hair poking from the seat being
occupied by a silver cornet.
Everything was there but the
Manager, and the whole room
had an atmosphere of anticipa-
tion, an electric current of
expectancy.
The door swung a little on
rusty hinges, and I pushed it
back against the wall and sat on
the rough, wooden step. Already
a few of the miners were leaving,
fanning out in twos-and-threes
on the slope towards the swamp,
the railway-line, and the village
beyond. Metal tuckerboxes
swung at their sides, and one or
two of the moving men paused to
roll and light cigarettes or an
occasional pipe.
Some were leaving, but not
all, for, following the line of the
skip-tracks to the screens, close
to the railway-line, I could see
a knot of them, small and black,
clustered busily round something
on the slope of the track. These
must be the pit-top men or the
screen-men, for quite obviously
the underground men were going
home.
I leaned forward, straining to
see that group of men, and found
what I was looking for, a figure
standing a little apart, easily
distinguishable because of the
stick which was raised, lowered
and pointed in a series of rapier-
like gestures.
Grandfather was there.
Curiosity led me down, clutch-
ing the letter as if to ward off
any suggestion of guilt. Halfway
down, I could see the reason for
the activity, for the straining
men, the gesturing stick. A skip
had been derailed and was in
likelihood of slipping down the
slope of the track. Something
in the attitude of my grandfather
told me that he wasn’t pleased
about it.
As I came closer, I heard a
man’s voice say, “Don’t let her
go, Bill, for God’s sake!”
I stopped when I heard the
clear, quiet voice of Grandfather.
“No, indeed, Mr. Hodge. No.
Not for His sake, but for my
sake. For Robert Scott’s sake.”
The stick was twisted and
flourished and flicked in the
region of his heart. I stayed
where I was. Grandfather was
angry.
In grunting silence the empty
skip was suddenly righted and
the men stood back, the rivulets
of sweat on their faces leaving
streaks of pale skin.
“There we are, Mr. Scott. All
set.”
“Aye.” Grandfather leaned
on his stick, managing to do so
without bending the ramrod of a
back. “Aye. It would appear
so.” His voice had dropped a
tone lower and each word was
a soft and separate sound: “It
should not have happened.”
The stick punctuated each
word with a full-stop tapping on
the coal-grit. “It must not
happen again. Such a small
thing, it would seem, is in danger
of disrupting the whole progress
of the mine. I shall find that
little gentleman, the Engineer,
my son-in-law, and personally
instruct him, personally, I say,
instruct him that whatsoever is
wrong shall be righted forth-
with. Good-day.”
13 ELUCTANT and good-
natured grins followed as I
turned to walk beside the tall
alpaca-coated-figure up the hill
to the mine-office.
Grandfather did not speak;
and as I looked tentatively up at
his face, his fine moustache
seemed to be quivering at each
tip. The strong nose, the deep
eyes set beneath bushy brows at
the base of the high forehead,
reminded me a little of my new
picture-book, given to me by
Grandfather himself, with
pictures of Vikings and ships.
The hill became a ship, the
slope upwards a wave, the office
the Captain’s—the Captain’s . . .
but I could not find the word.
I waved the letter up as sail, and
knew the delicately-twirling
walking-stick with the silver
knob to be nothing other than the
ship’s wheel, guiding us on to
something unknown but very
wonderful.
We reached the office and
Grandfather took off his hat,
displaced the cornet, and sat
down, holding the fine
instrument carefully. He looked
at me gravely.
“Well, little one?”
“I have a letter for you, Grand-
father, from Mother.”
“Aye.” He looked at me
absently, fingering the cornet.
The steely glint faded from his
eyes and he adjusted the
instrument. “I think we’ll have
a wee piece of ‘Annie Laurie.’
Aye, we will.”
I listened enraptured at the
glorious notes, watching his
progress round the office, seeing
the long-fingered hands, the
pouted cheeks rosy beneath the
tan. I listened as the plaintive
music swelled out, filling the
office, escaping through the door,
rolling down the hill, becoming
part of the summer breeze, the
drying grass, the low, shim-
mering water of the swamp. I
listened and never knew when
it had stopped, until Grandfather
was r e.p lacing the cornet-
mouthpiece with his pipe and
opening one of the volumes of
Robbie Burns.
“Well, lass,” he said, seeking,
with sure fingers the page he
wanted. “Do you remember your
last lesson?”
I put down the letter, pulled
at my socks, and placed my
hands, fingertips to fingertips,
lightly in front of me. I
remembered it well enough until
I reached ‘O wad some Pow’r the
giftie gie us,’ when by great mis-
chance I used the English version
of a verb. Grandfather’s eyes
rolled backwards in his head
with pain and despair.
“I beg your pardon,” I told
him, my cheeks pink with shame.
Then I began all over again.
Grandfather punctuating the
lines with nods of approval.
“That’s the lassie,” he told me
at the conclusion, and I sighed
with pleasure. “We’ll have this
once again next time, and then
we go on to the ‘mouse’ —‘Wee,
sleekit, cow’rin’, tim'rous beastie,
O what a panic’s in thy
breastie!’ He rolled the words
across his tongue in a soft, rich
burr, then stopped suddenly,
marked the page in the book and
closed it.
“Come, lass, I want to see your
father before I go.”
He gathered up his hat, his
pipe, his key-ring. I followed
him out the door, where he
paused to pat my head before
striding off to the labyrinth of
skips and engines, rails and
buildings.
TT was not until he was out of
sight that I remembered the
letter. In my stomach was the
nausea of disaster.
Not only had I not given him
the letter, but I did not even
have it any more. The magni-
tude of my carelessness held me
to the one spot on the ground,
beyond the office door. Then,
as my knees appeared to be
sagging a little,*! sat down on
the step, the better to face the
awful truth.
It proved a good thing that l
did so, for my eyes, blurring,
fell on the books on the office
table. The reason for their
fascination for me was not clear,
until I had wiped my eyes on
the hem of my skirt, when I saw
only too clearly the end of a very
white envelope emerging from
one of them.
Of course! It was there.
Grandfather had snatched it
from the table and used it as a
bookmark. Laughing with relief,
I jumped up to get it, pulling
at the swinging door in my haste.
I did not even notice that the
door had banged behind me, for
the letter was crisp and cool in
my hand and smelt faintly of
Mother.
So I had the letter and all I
{Continued on page 34)


FERRIS
INDUSTRIES
LIMITED
PAID-UP CAPITAL
£235,000
(MAIN TRADING
SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.)
issue at Par (£5O)
of £50,000
Registered Deposits
(RANKING BEFORE SHARE CAPITAL)
bearing interest at the rate of
I
o
participating
up to
PER
ANNUM
CURRENCY 7 YEARS
Each £5O Deposit backed by assets of £l4o—a sound
investment in an expanding company.
Additional working capital is required to finance the manufacture
of Ferris Television Receivers, Channel Master Television Aerials,
spare accessories and component parts.
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application for regis-
tered deposits may be obtained from:—
The Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES LTD.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale. XW0221.
A. D. Meares and Bishop, Brokers for the Issue,
126 Phillip Street, Sydney. 8W4145.
Any member of the Sydney Stock Exchange.
This announcement is abridged and does not fully conform to the
requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936. Applications for
Registered Deposits will be received only on one of the Forms of
Application referred to and endorsed upon the printed copy of the
Prospectus.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W RADFORD (Vice Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Brandies in all States Agencies in all Country Centre*
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN CUNNING THOMPSON late of
Rand in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that PHILIP JOHN
THOMPSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No- 2188 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to de-
.fend you may enter an appearance in the’
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Third day of
January 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
A. J. McLACHLAN, HOARE & CO., of
6 Wynyard Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANNABELLE DOREEN FLYNN late
of 69 Park Street Erskineville.—TAKE
NOTICE that SYLVESTER FLYNN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2655 of
1956 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause and excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the Third day of January 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. H. RICHARDS, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, City
Agent for J. W. SALMON, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 21a Belmore Road, Rand-
wick. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK ROY JACKSON late of
Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. Ball’s
Head Road Waverton near Sydney and for-
merly of 26 Veda Street Hamilton New-
castle—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET
JACKSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2728 of 1954 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 27th December 1956
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from E. R. MANN & CO., Soli-
citors, of 42 Bridge Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
' II
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARKERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NSO - BARREBE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATI}RE
BABBEKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3y), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Cayley’s What Butterfly Is
That? and Tillyard’s The Insects of
Australia and New Zealand. —6414.
Words of verse “A Man Is at His
Best Out Fishin’.” —6413.
To contact anyone with recordings
of famous war-time speeches willing to
allow copy of same by tape. Agreeable
to a fee. —6415.
Information Sought
Brief account of the sinking of the
Ballarat in World War 1 ?
The steamship Ballarat, 11,120 tons
gross, with a normal speed of 14
knots, was built in 1914 for the P. and
O. Line. On Feb. 19, 1917, she left
Melbourne on her fourth voyage as a
transport, with 1600 soldiers on
board; she also carried £l6 million of
bullion, which was removed to a
cruiser off Sierra Leone. The Ballarat
was then in convoy, but nearing
Britain the vessels separated, eacli
escorted by a destroyer. The Ballarat
was escorted by H.M.S. Phoenix, zig-
zagging as she went; at 2 p.m. on
April 25 she was struck in the stern
by a torpedo, and her main engines
were soon under water. (The Ger-
mans, it is believed, thought the
bullion was still on board.) The
troops were taken off, without loss of
life, by destroyers and drifters; this
was largely due to the elforts of the
officer-in-charge, Colonel McVea, who
had been on the Southland, the only
other Australian troopship to be
attacked and badly damaged
during World War 1. Ballarat sank
early the following morning 1\ miles
from the Lizard light, the crew also
getting off without loss of life. Cold
and exposure, however, caused several
subsequent deaths.
* * * *
Information on the Danish clock
described in a recent radio-broadcast
as “the world’s most wonderful
clock” ?
The timepiece referred to would
be Jens Olsen’s “universal” (or
“astronomical”) clock in Copenhagen
Town Hall, popularly known in Den-
mark as the Eighth Wonder of the
World. Jens Olsen (1872-1945),
Danish instrument-maker and clock-
repairer, devoted a lifetime’s study to
designing and perfecting the clock. By
the 1920’s he had finished all his cal-
culations, but the making of the 14,000
units necessary did not begin till 1944.
The country’s leading specialists
assisted Olsen; because of his
thorough preliminary work, his death
in Nov., 1945, did not set back opera-
tions. The Clock was set going by
King Frederik and a granddaughter ot
Olsen’s, on Dec. 15, 1955. “The
nearest approach yet to perpetual
motion,” it incorporates a calendar for
570,000 years, and its slowest-turning
wheel, which gives the motion of the
celestial pole, will take 25,700 years
to complete one revolution. It gives
local Copenhagen time, Central Euro-
pean time, sidereal time, true solar
time, the equation of time, sunrise and
sunset by mean time and true solar
time, time of day anywhere in the
world, revolutions of the planets,
eclipses of sun and moon, rising and
setting of the star?, motion of the
celestial pole, day of the week, date,
month and year; and the calendar
shows the phases of the moon and all
the movable feasts. And it is claimed
that it will lose only one second in
a thousand years. (.Information from
articles in the Danish Foreign Office
Journal.)
Titles of books of poems by (1)
John Neilson and (2) his son, John
Shaw Neilson? (3) What was the
first John Shaw Neilson poem pub-
lished in The Bulletin ? (4) Did he
write many poems for The Bulletin ?
(5) What pen-names did he sometimes
use ?
(1) Poem for Recitation: Love’s
Summer in the Snow (1893), The Men
of the Fifties (1938). (2) Old Granny
Sullivan (1916), Heart of Spring
(1919), Ballad and Lyrical Poems
(1923), New Poems (1927), Collected
Poems (1934), Beauty Imposes: Some
Recent Verse (1938), Unpublished
Poems of Shaw Neilson (1947), edited
by James Devaney. (3) “Marian’s
Child,” published in The Bulletin of
May 4, 1895. (4) Not many. Between
1895 and 1924 The Bulletin printed
only 17 John Shaw Neilson poems.
(5) “Charlie Chaucer” and “Horace
O’Hazy.”
* * * *
Some information on the first-cover
envelopes connected with the maiden
voyage of the Mariposa ?
The collection of first covers is a
popular hobby among Australian
philatelists and souvenir enthusiasts.
One Sydney collector (Mr. J. O.
Critchlow) has more than 200
colorful covers commemorating first
voyages, stamp-exhibitions, pictorial
stamp-issues and historical events,
such as the coronation of Queen
Elizabeth. Stamp-collectors all over
Australia are applying for the special
embossed-cover envelopes com-
memorating the revival of American-
flag passenger-ship services across the
Pacific. The envelopes will be carried
to San Francisco on the maiden
voyage of the Matson liner Mariposa
(due to leave Sydney on November
24) and stamped there for return to
their Australian addressees. The
Mariposa cachets (available free to
collectors) will be franked in Sydney
with the special Olympic Games post-
mark, and will go as ship-mail to San
Francisco for back-stamping. Postage
payable on cachet-covers to be
returned to Australian senders via San
Francisco is Is. 3d. for the first
ounce and* 9d. for each additional
ounce. Postage on cachet-covers
lodged at Sydney and not intended for
return to Australia is for the
first ounce and 4J[d. for each
additional ounce. Philatelic societies
may get these covers for distribution
to members by writing to Mariposa
Cachet, c/o Hill and Knowlton Pty.,
Ltd., Box 4229, G.P.0., Sydney, or to
Matson Line offices.
* * * *
Did the author of the song “D’ye
Ken John Peel’'’ have any connection
with Australia ?
Yes, the author was John Wood-
cock Graves, son of John Graves, a
plumber, glazier and ironmonger of
Wigton, England. Born in 1795, the
son had comparatively little education
and at 14 he began to work for an
uncle who was a house-, sign- and
coach-painter; but he learnt little
from him. He owed more to an old
bachelor, Joseph Falder, a friend of
John Dalton, the scientist. Graves did
some drawing, and at one time wished
to study art, but his circumstances
did not allow of this, and he became a
woollen miller at Caldbeck. There
he was friendly with John Peel (1776-
1854), with whom he hunted, and
whom he featured in his famous song.
Unfortunate with his woollen-milling,
Graves left for Tasmania, and arrived
in Hobart in 1833 with his wife and
children. Except for a short period in
Sydney, he remained in Tasmania for
the rest of his life and died in 1886.
Sydney Gilpin’s The Songs and
Ballads of Cumberland includes six
poems by Graves.
* * # *
Some information concerning Nicoi
Drysdale Stenhouse, sometimes
referred to as “the Maecenas of Aus-
tralian literature ” ?
Stenhouse, lawyer and patron of
letters, was born in Scotland on June
27, 1806. He was educated at
Berwick-on-Tweed Grammar School
and Edinburgh University, and
became clerk to Sir William Hamilton,
who at that time was practising as an
advocate in the Court of Sessions,
Edinburgh. Through Hamilton he
met many leading literary men, includ-
ing Thomas de Quincy, with whom
he corresponded for years. In 1839
Stenhouse emigrated to Sydney, where
he practised as a solicitor and took
a prominent part in legal, literary,
educational and scientific circles. It
was the help which he gave to Aus-
tralian writers, including Daniel
Henry Deniehy, Charles Harpur and
Henry Kendall, that caused him to be
known as “the Maecenas of Australian
literature.’’ Stenhouse’s writings,
which have not been collected, show
him to have been a man of wide learn-
ing with a good prose-style. He was
an examiner in thb faculty of law and
a member of the Senate of the Uni-
versity of Sydney. He died on
February 18, 1873.
Brief Answers
W.H.McL.: Writing for Australia:
A Nationalist Tradition in Australian
Literature? by Cyril Brown, pub-
lished by the Hawthorn Press, 15
Guildford-lane, Melbourne
E.M.C.: Write Gaston C. Renard,
Box 5295, G.P.0., Melbourne
Curious: (1) To prevent the plaster
from sticking to the moulds, coat the
moulds with shellac; then coat the
cast with shellac before painting. A
spot of glue-size added to the plaster
when casting will retard the setting
of the plaster, but will make the
plaster harder. Suggest you try stone-
dental-plaster for your purpose. (2)
Glycerine should soften the ribbon.
... .N.L.C.: Of nominal value only.
... .R.McK.: Donations may be sent
to either of the two trustees of the
Steele Rudd Memorial Fund: R. S.
Byrnes (President), 483 Wickham-
terrace, Brisbane; or N. K. Harvey
(Hon. Treasurer), 6 Gladstone-road,
Highgate Hill, Brisbane D.P.:
Captain Moonlite, by Charles White;
published by Marchant and Co.,
Sydney. Other books by Charles
White in the same “Bushranger”
series included accounts of Ben Hall,
Frank Gardiner, John Vane, Ned Kelly
and Martin Cash... .C.J.W.: Write
W. R. Cumming, Secretary, Common-
wealth Literary Fund, Prime
Minister’s Department, Canberra....
J.M.S.: Write Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
A.L.M.: Suggest that you write
direct to the Public Trustee, 19
O’Connell-street, Sydney..'. .J.McD.:
Annual Catalogue of Australian
Publications (price, 25.), obtainable
from Commonwealth National
Library, Canberra.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
F.P.: Your “Jingles that Jangle”
just jangle... .A. 8.: “A F9OI and
His Money” has four vivid lines:
Oh, let me go! Oh, let me go!
You only want my hard-earned dough.
You do not love me, you scheming trollop,
It is only the banknotes in my wallet.
E.C.N.: Don’t tell us that that
old maid is still looking for a burglar
under her bed....L.H.: At least it
has a homely touch: —
Some sing of fish and chips
And others of lamb’s fry,
But I my lid I dips
To a juicy, hot meat-pie.
....J.G.: Not much left to do with
dingoes S.C.R.: Not claiming any
meteorights P.: Elementary....
F.M.: Prospecting’s almost a worn-
out field C.J.L.: Travelogue
1.A.M.: Amazing... .R.D.: May
seem tough to you, but it’s a common-
place of used-car salesmanship
P.H.: They fill a car with booze and
drive it around and get smsshed-up
it no longer makes a short story
H.A.S.: There are drawers all over
Australia filled with dejected, rejected
little stories of what might have been.
T.J.: Well, that kind of ghost-
story went out 50 years ago with that
way of telling it R.: Common-
place... .E.P.: We didn’t take to
“The Bottle”... .J.S.: Liked the point
about the play-within-a-play, but the
rest is immature C.T.8.: Much
too much ;F.H.L.C.: Neither done
well enough... .J.M.: Something
there, but where? ... .D.K.H.: Not
quite.... R.E.R.: Ditto... .H.P.: No
verve... .J.F.K.: All talk T.K.:
Crude H.J.: You found it comic
and you left it bathetic... .J.G.:
Humor ticked-off item-by-item....
M.V.D.: Paragraph F.: What’s
the use of a lift without a story?....
K.M.: Liked the fiathead-fishing. but
the rest is meretricious.... T.K.:
Contributions beginning
Onward to victory ! Forward we must go !
Sons of Australia, prepare to meet the foe.
Step off with the left, follow with the
right,
Remember you’re an Aussie —never dodge
a fight.
invariably march straight into the
w.p.b W.L.G.: Next time you
find yourself in the backyard at 10
p.m. forget about the stars and con-
centrate on the snails... .M.E.: You
might try singing it next month in the
streets of Melbourne R.L.A.: “If
you do not see fit to publish tills in
your newspaper, please notify me
within 30 days.” Brother, we made
up our minds within 30 seconds
C. 8.: Admire the sentiments, but
not the poetry 8.W.: Sorry, but
there are no nesting-places at 252
George-street for your tropic birds.
F.G.: Now, that’s a weighty
observation:
As we go through life we find
Other people not our kind.
B.McA.: Labelled “not wanted,”
“The Bureaucrat” was tied with red-
tape and filed in the office-tomb....
E.A.S.: Whenever we sight a poem
beginning
What a mighty, mighty thing’s the Tem-
pestuous Sea,
Gigantic waves, bashing, crashing on sands
and rocks,
we immediately put up the storm
windows.. . .D.1.F.: It didn’t make
the grade... .J.M.: Thank Heaven!
“Joe he’s gone to he’s rest”....
J.R.C.: “Each day we’re faced with
the same round of duties.” Such as
reading poems like “Repetition Drives
You Crazy”... .M.E.: The whole ten
bit the dust P.M.O’S.: “The Intro-
duction” is not the sort of poem
likely to replenish your pockets....
E.8.F.: You can have that crocodile
back L-B.: “Dear Sir, as we need
scarcely state, horses are inarticulate.'
We sometimes wish that some poets
were the same... .L.J.M.: It seems to
be sound advice to us:
To all men who find that
Most pictures are boring,
But whose protests their wives
Insist on ignoring,
And drag them, out weekly,
There’s one way of scoring,
Lay back in your seat and
Sleep with loud snoring.
G.D.L.: Try a women’s paper.
H.A.W.: We liked the masterly
finish:
Ma was swinging from the ceiling.
He rushed outside and called a cop.
“My ma-in-law has hung herself,” he said.
“Did you cut her down and let her drop ?”
“Did I cut her down? She wasn’t dead.”
F.McD.: Suggest that you send
to the lady herself the poem beginning
“Oh! What joy untold doth thy red
lips h01d”... .W.H.W.: “Reason and
calm judgment informs me that the
enclosures are not up to your
standard.” That statement receives
our endorsement... .K.L.: That
precious style is a positive hindrance
to the acceptance of your manu-
scripts L.P.: What were you trying
to write —a short story or a sermon?


Blow-by-blow Confession of a Battered Contestant
Candidate
for
Political
Honors
By BEN BOW
‘ ‘T-r7-rELL, gentlemen, it
\X/ seems that we must
VV admit defeat and con-
cede the seat. Now
post-mortem time has arrived.
We must consider what is neces-
sary, now that the Federal elec-
tions are over, to win the State
elections in five months’ time.
The first thing is to select, as
early as possible, a strong can-
didate.
“Has anyone a suggestion?
The man chosen must be a resi-
dent of long-standing, with a car
and a telephone, of course; no
particular handicap, such as a
job in the police-force, which
might make him unpopular with
any section of the community
—for instance, a hotelkeeper
would not be a good choice.
“He should be able to get down
to the level of the ordinary
worker. He should have suffi-
cient money to be able to fight a
campaign without embarrass-
ment to himself. [Oh, yeah! ] He
must be married. He must be
a returned serviceman. He
must have no particular religious
affiliation which might cause
difficulty to his campaign, and he
must have undoubted loyalty to
the party.
“Now, who amongst us
measures up to those standards?
Incidentally, he must not be too
young, nor must he have one
foot in the grave. It’s up to us,
gentlemen, and I suggest that the
sooner a suitable choice is made
the better chance we have.”
Our glances moved round the
room.
“What about Miller?”
No, that trouble with the bar-
maid at the Royal puts him out.
“There’s Saintly.”
“He.’d have us all in the Salvos
in a month! ”
“Order, gentlemen. I hardly
think Mr. Saintly a good choice
myself . . . Well, gentlemen, it
is really desirable to make an
announcement today, if we can,
while the electorate is still elec-
tion-conscious.”
“What about you, Ben?”
“Now there you are, gentle-
men! I feel sure that Mr. Bow
could swing the seat.”
He did, did he?
Anyway, this is where the
world’s champion sucker fell for
it, hook, line and sinker. Too
old to be caught by the thimble-
and-pea tuck, but not too old to
fall for this.
“Would you just run your eye
over this form, Mr. Bow?”
The upshot of it all was that
Mr. Ben Bow left that Sunday-
morning meeting, immediately
after the Federal elections,
pledged to stand as a candidate
at the next State elections.
“And before you go, Mr. Bow,
perhaps you’d give a few details
to the editor of the paper. He’ll
be round in a few minutes. 1
have sent him a message.”
♦♦♦ *
COMEWHAT belatedly Mr.
Bow arrived home for
lunch.
“When do we go to Brisbane?”
“Have you got your gold-pass
yet?” “It was just on the wire-
less that they’ve made you a
member of Parliament, and that
means we go to Brisbane, doesn’t
it?”
“Listen, you. Get this. Under
no circumstances whatever is
Brisbane to be mentioned here.
It is only because the sitting mem-
ber never leaves Brisbane that
I’m standing for this election.
Also, didn’t I say I’d get rid of
that infernal wireless?”
“Yes, Father. You said that
there was never anything on it
except politicians yapping, and
you’d get rid of the damn’ thing.”
There was a knock at the door.
A young fellow with a camera.
“The editor sent me round to
get your photo, Mr. Bow, and
while I’m here one of Mrs. Bow,
too. No, Mrs. Bow, just as you
are, in your apron . . . Well,
good-bye. I’ve got to get a block
out and dead-line’s just around
the corner.”
“Ben, what did he do that
for?”
“You’ll know in the morning,
my dear, when you see yourself
in the paper in that get-up, with
the tea-towels on the line, and the
wall of the shed alongside you.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
- MORNING, Mr.
Bow. So you’re our candi-
date for Woopville? I’m Dash,
the sitting member for Cityton. I
have come up here to give you a
hand for a week or so. We’ll go
round the country. I under-
stand that meetings will be
arranged for us in small centres.
I have the itinerary here. The
first is tonight at Gullystand.
Perhaps we would go in your
car.” . . .
Home for an early lunch.
Never mind doing any more
work. The Bow family will have
to starve for the next few
months. It was perhaps unfor-
tunate that I did not advise the
wife that I was bringing a mem-
ber of Parliament home for
lunch or she might not have set
the meal out in the kitchen . . .
The road to Gullystand starts-
off on bitumen for the first 20
miles. After that, for another
20, it is mostly a series of lakes
and craters full of water.
There had been a bit of rain,
and the engine stopped in some-
thing like a squatter’s dam, but
by the kindness of Providence,
and using the starter-motor in
first-gear, I was able to crawl
out of it. Twenty minutes was
long enough to dry the engine.
1 took off the fan-belt at the
next hole. The water came as
high as the floor of the car. Only
once did the rear wheels slip in
the mud, and then Mr. Dash
took the wheel, while Ben Bow,
candidate for Parliament, shoved
behind, and the car slowly crept
through to hard ground.
Jimmy Dunkold, party politi-
cian by instinct and farmer in
actual fact, was waiting for us
at the Gullystand pub.
It was five-o’clock. The mill
was crushing. The bar was full
of canecutters.
No reticence about Jimmy:
“Here you are, all you blokes.
This is your new member, Ben
Bow, and this other bloke is Mr.
Dash. He’s a real member
already. Ask him for anything
you want. Now’s your chance.
Anything you want.”
No reticence about Jimmy.
What odds if Mr. Dash was in
Opposition and had less pull
than I had?
There was only one thing to
do. Drinks for the bar; and
could we stay the ,night? We
could, but not for tea. Jimmy
and his wife expected us. We’d
better leave the car at the pub
and walk a little way to where he
had parked his truck.
The little way stretched out to
a mile-and-a-half between rows
of cane, and round stretches of
water. The reason Jimmy had
parked his truck there became
obvious. It had no lights, and
he had neglected to comply with
the law of registration. Not only
no lights but no silencer, or
seats, either.
Another mile or two brought
the house in sight. There had
been a fresh in the creek and the
barramundi were committing
suicide. We had a whole fish
each for dinner.
At the little C.W.A. hall that
night Jimmy was in the chair.
The audience of 20 must have
come in tractors.
Mr. Dash would address us
. . . The things that fellow knew
about politics were nobody’s
business. He knew about it all.
He knew who bought sugar. Who
fixed the price. Why the mill-
peaks were only half what could
be grown on the assignments.
I was really beginning to learn
a few things when Jimmy said:
“Now, ladies and gentlemen.
I’m sure you’re glad to have
heard Mr. Dash, but there are
many things he could not tell us
and we want to know about it
all. I’ll call on Mr. Bow to tell
you them.” . . .
>;<
'T'HE mill was crushing. Three
'*• shifts. The pub was next to
the line.
When a rake of trucks was
wanted half-a-mile away some
galah hung on the whistle-cord.
A steam loco, stopped outside
the window and its safety-valve
whimpered for an hour.
The south-bound Mail passed
through at about 1 a.m., and a
goods had to be shunted into the
siding to let it pass. The north-
bound came through at half-past-
three.
A glassy-eyed member for City-
ton had some trouble finding the
facility of the pub, which was
right at the bottom of the yard,
and had to ask me for directions.
Breakfast consisted of billy-
goat, and Mr. Dash made some
notes about country pubs ...
The road improved a bit after
we left Gullystand. There had
been less rain, for another 40
miles. We reached the new
settlement of Avalon.
Our contact-man here was Alf
Puddifoot. He was not a good
farmer, so we had no difficulty
finding his place. house
stood near the fence on a poor
farm. The door was open, but
the building was empty. There
was no ceiling, no lining. A
wood-stove smouldered in a
detached slab-kitchen.
Well down the paddock we
could see some figures. A
woman, three children. The car
floundered through the mud; one
or two of the kids came to meet
us. Yes, Mum was trying to
catch a sow. Dad had gone to
town.
We helped to catch the sow,
and if anyone wants an interest-
ing job that is just it. About
three-hundredweight of pig, as
quick as lightning, running about
in six-inches of mud ; too greasy
to hold unless by a leg. No, Alf
wouldn’t be home until nightfall.
The farm was not paying at
present. They were selling four
pigs. The man would come for
them later on. Alf had hitch-
hiked to town (20 miles), and
would get back the same way,
but if he didn’t come until nearly
dark she would drive the utility
up the road to meet him. There
was a bad place in the middle of
the paddock where nothing
would grow. See, with the yellow
grass on it. Would we stay for
a cup of tea?
She was so obviously anxious
for us to have the tea that there
was no question of refusing. We
remained. The kids told us of
the tame wallaby, of the dog, of
Milly the cow, who had three-
day sickness.
We had the tea. There was
nothing but to try the next farm.
A better farmer here, but so deep
into the agricultural bank that he
did not really know how far.
Still, he had a crop to take off.
Would we have a cup of tea?
You couldn’t possibly go away
without a cup of tea. How could
anyone go away without a cup
of tea?
This farmer was a supporter
of ours. We had two cups each.
He’d come with us and show
us a few of the blokes. Two
farms down the road. Don’t
worry about this bloke. He’s
practically a Commo. Now,
there’s Mick Kelly. He’ll be all
right.
Mick was half-a-mile away,
driving a tractor. He left the
tractor standing, and joined us.
He wanted to see his wife for a
minute. There’d be a cup of
tea ready in a few seconds. After
all, he must have one himself,
mustn’t he?
Well, if you were a politician
what would you do? We had
more tea.
Now we ought to see Guiseppe
Cantastorelli. He has a big
influence with the Italian com-
munity.
Sure thing, we’ll call on Can-
tastorelli.
“A drink first, yes? No?”
Guiseppe brought out a bottle
of brandy. “Another brandy, of
course, and now la mia moglie
ha fatta la tea. Si. Si. Every
Australian taka da tea.”
So we taka da tea . . .
At the next farm it was lunch-
time. “You’ll take tea, won’t
you, Mr. Dash?” You bet he
will . . .
Now to drive back to the pub
at Gullystand.
There was an old vehicle on
the road. It had once been a
six-cylindered American car,
maybe 20 years ago. It had been
converted into a truck. All the
mudguards had dropped off. The
seating-arrangements were fast-
ened on with wire. Only one
light burned, so dimly that you
could hardly see it. The silencer
had gone to find the mudguards.
It was unregistered.
Three kids clung on it. A
woman was driving it slowly
down the road. She was going
to look for her husband. It was
Mrs. Puddifoot. Alf had not
been able to get a lift home . . .
♦J* £ ♦*«
VI7E reached again the pub
’’ at Gullystand. The
evening meal also consisted
of goat. The same billy-
goat. But there was blanc-
mange-and-jam for a sweet. You
could have tea if you wanted it.
How hard a politician’s innards
have to be!
More rain had fallen during
the day, and Dead Man’s Creek
was over the road. We would
have to leave the car here until
tomorrow or the next day, when
Jimmy Dunkold would drive it
to town. We, ourselves, would
have to go by the north-bound
Mail, which was due at 3 a.m.
That is, if it was on time.
(Continued on page 27)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to —
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/13/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
MELBOURNE CUP
SELECTIONS
Ray Ribbon, 1; Redcraze, 2;
Caranna, 3.
This year’s £15,500 Mel-
bourne Cup (two miles), to be
run at Flemington next Tuesday,
is expected to draw the biggest
crowd for many years ; the city
is crowded with racing and
Olympic Games’ visitors.
With Australia’s greatest race
as, of course, the highlight, the
Flemington meeting will begin
next Saturday, when the main
attractions will be the £7OOO
Derby, the £2500 Maribyrnong
Plate (two-year-olds), the weight-
for-age £2OOO Mackinnon Stakes
and the £2OOO Cantala Stakes.
The best horses of Australia and
New Zealand will compete.
Redcraze, Cup topweight with
10.3 (including penalties
totalling 101 b. for wins in the
Metropolitan and the Caulfield
Cup), would appear going
strictly on form —to have the
rich prize all sewn-up. If suc-
cessful, he will be the fourth
New Zealander to win the Cup
in the past five years. Dalray
started the ball rolling in 1952.
Rising Fast won in 1954, and
Toparoa last year. And this
page’s choice for the Cup is also
from over the Tasman.
No. 1 saddlecloth has been
carried to victory by Rising Fast,
Dalray, Delta, Comic Court and
Russia in the past 10 years, so
a lot of weight hasn’t beaten the
best horses. Cup winners with
lOst. or more have been Carbine,
10.5; Archer, 10.2; Poitrel,
lOst.
Rising Fast, back to his best
form, has had plenty of support
to down Redcraze. Rising Fast
is a remarkable horse, and has
raced in all seasons since he was
a two-year-old. He is now
seven. This will be his third
Melbourne Cup start. He won
with 9.5 in 1954, and was second
with lOst. to Toparoa last year.
Ray Ribbon, who beat Rising
Fast by inches in the Cox Plate
at Moonee Valley on Saturday,
finished in the middle of the field
in last year’s Cup,with 8.13. He
now has 9.6.
When Phar Lap won the 1930
Melbourne Cup that amazing
galloper started at 11 to 8 on,
hottest favorite in the history
of the two-miler. He was an
unlucky third at even-money the
previous season. No other Cup
favorite has started at less than
6 to 4 against. Favorites have
done reasonably well since Phar
Lap’s year (1930): Peter Pan
(4 to 1), Marabou (9 to 2), The
Trump (11 to 2, equal), Rivette
(5 to 1), Dark Felt (7 to 2, equal),
Sirius (3 to 1), Dalray (5 to 1)
and Rising Fast (2 to 1). Prior
to 1930 few Cup favorites did
the right thing for punters.
Melbourne owners of three-
year-olds' believe they have an
excellent chance of keeping the
Sydney invaders from winning
the major portion of the £7OOO
Victoria Derby prize. They
managed to do so last spring,
when Sailor’s Guide won from
Arlunya and Sydney-owned
Caranna, but five Sydney-trained
three-year-olds won the classic
between 1949 and 1954 inclu-
sive. The only Victorian to
score over that spread of years
was Alister in 1950.
Melbourne’s best Derby pros-
pect should be Summalu, with
Medulla and Araleum outside
chances. Best from Sydney
should be Monte Carlo, Ham-
ham Hill and Bernfield. Harn-
ham Hill, though still a maiden,
could improve on recent dis-
plays. He will be well suited by
the long stretches of Flemington.
Derby selections: Harnham
Hill, 1 ; Monte Carlo, 2;
Summalu, 3.
Harnham Hill has been an
unlucky runner so far, hut has
earned the best part of £3OOO
from minor placings. A maiden,
Playboy, won the A.J.C. Derby
in 1949, but maybe no maiden
has yet won the Flemington
classic (early records of the Mel-
bourne Derby do not show
whether a prior non-winner had
landed that classic). One thing
seems certain: Harnham Hill
looks like developing into a top-
class four-year-old.
Improving upon recent per-
formances, Melbourne colt
Medulla galloped himself into
the Derby picture by his dashing
win in Moonee Valley’s First
Greenvale Handicap for three-
year-olds. Medulla has a staying
background, and on the dam’s
side goes back to Spearhead
(imp.). He is a son of Neapolitan
(imp.) and is from Perm by
Hellespont' (imp.). Neapolitan
won a number of English races
to a mile-and-a-half, and his sire,
Nearco, was unbeaten. Medulla
is now trained by Roy Shaw,
who last week took him over,
together with several other horses
formerly prepared by Theo
Lewis.
Sydney’s latest racing find,
two-year-old grey colt Grey
Prince, carried a penalty and
narrowly won the Moonee
Valley St. Alban’s Stakes, mak-
ing his record: two starts, two
wins. Raced by Dr. Roy Croft
and Bob Watson, the grey will
not be overraced this season, the
plan being to give him a chance
to make a name for himself at
three-years.
Two-year-old winner Au
Courant, like the earlier Canter-
bury winner Ascendancy, is
raced by American owner R. J.
Kleberg, Jnr., for whom Rand-
wick trainer Fred Allsop is doing
a good job. Allsop had to bid to
3100gns. for Au Courant
for his U.S. patron at the Rand-
wick yearling sales last Easter.
The filly, bred at Barramul stud,
Kerrabee (N.S.W.), narrowly won
Rosehill’s Juvenile Stakes last
Saturday from the favorite,
Merry Inn. By Star Kingdom '
(imp.) from Delspring, Au
Courant belongs to the same
family as Hall Mark, Murray
Stream, Nuffield and Trivalve.
Redcraze seems the logical
winner of the Mackinnon Stakes
—and four of the last six winners
of the Stakes also won the Cup
three days later (Comic Court,
Delta, Dalray and Rising Fast).
Last year Rising Fast won the
Mackinnon, and went close to
the Cup.
Former unsuccessful Victorian
sprinter Mandingos won his
seventh successive event when he
easily landed the Rosehill Flying
with topweight 9.1, starting at
odds-on. He wouldn’t have
blown a candle out at the finish
of the suburban sprint. Man-
dingos may be tested in the
Villiers next month, though he
has yet to show what he can do
at a mile. In finishing third after
being cramped for room in the
final furlong or so, Fire Flash
drew attention to his prospects
in the Q.T.C. Derby, to be run
at Brisbane on November 17.
Next Saturday’s Hotham
Handicap is also expected to
prove a Cup guide. The last two
winners of the Hotham didn’t
start in the two-miler, but three
winners of both events in late
years have been Foxzami (1949),
Sirius (1944) and Dark Felt
(1943). Hiraji, second to Dark
Marne in 1947, won the two-
miler the following Tuesday,
while My Hero, Hotham winner
in 1953, ran third in the Cup
to Wodalla and Most Regal.
Royal Feast bolted in with
Rosehill’s First Parramatta
Stakes, for which he was backed
from 20’s to 13 to 2. The geld-
ing, a maiden till Saturday, is
trained at Rosehill by Colin
Papworth for paddock fielder
Ken Ranger, and was ridden by
Stan Cassidy—a welcome change
for that horseman, ending a
sequence of 70 losing rides.
* * *
Eight pacers have been chosen
to test a moving barrier (of the
type used in America) in an
Invitation Mile at Harold Park
this coming Friday night. In
barrier-draw order they are (at
time of writing) Young Wexford,
Van Hall, Defiance, Port Logan,
Mineral Spring, Brilliant Moon,
Gay Knight, Marine Dealer
(there may be a few alterations
to the line-up before Friday).
The field should get over the mile
in pretty slippery time, and
provide a race worth going a
long way to see. On the basis
of horses with the greatest early
speed placed from the outside,
and graded into the fence to the
slowest beginner, Marine Dealer
gets handicapper Marx’s vote as
toeiest off the mark.
It takes a good one to sprint
from a rearward position to near
the lead, be given a breather
there —coasting one out —and
then sprint against a strong
challenge for the last two fur-
longs. Spring Scott did this to
win the 2.19-class Cabramatta
Handicap at the Park last Friday
night; she recorded 3.6| for the
Ilf furlongs (mile-rate, 2.6|),
which is one of the best times
run for the distance on the track,
and not far outside Ribands’s
2.5 f record; and she fought-off
a solid challenge from a capable
Blanche’s Best in doing it.
With her only recent failure to be
first home in about nine starts
caused by a slow start in the
Spring Handicap the previous
week, Spring Scott is one of the
best of her sex racing. By
U. Scott (imp.) from the Jack
Potts (imp.) mare Belle Potts,
she’s bred to do what she’s doing.
+ +
Landy will, after all, run at the
Games ; he has decided that he’s
fit enough. A good thing, as
Australia has no better sporting-
ambassador around the place,
win or lose. And, even against
the many class rivals he’ll be
meeting (and there’ll still be
many, without the Hungarian
trio), he must be accorded a fair
enough chance of winning a
gold-medal.
* * *
A Melbourne morning daily
(24/10/’56) asked, “Has Jon
Henricks passed peak?” A
reasonable query, as Henricks is
now 20; and swimming is the
one sport where peak of per-
formance is usually reached in
the ’teens, In this case Henricks
himself straightway answered, at
"If’s BUTTERFLIES We're after!”
Melbourne Olympic Pool, the
very same night, by clocking
55.1 sec. for 100-metres, fastest
time ever for the distance in a
50-metre pool. On Saturday he
won the official Olympic trial in
55.8 sec.
• • • •
One or two other outstanding
swims at the trials: last Thurs-
day night Lorraine Crapp, swim-
ming 100-metres in 62.45ec., clip-
ping o.Bsec. off her world-record,
set less than a week before ; then,
soon after, assisting in setting a
new world-record for the 4 x 100-
metres relay. On Saturday night
Murray Rose’s winning of the
400-metres freestyle in 4min.
27sec., fastest time ever recorded
in a 50-metre pool.
“Moorapi”: Terry Gathercole,
of N.S.W., who won the 200-
metres breaststroke at the trials
in 2min. 39.55ec., seems to be
Australia’s hope for retaining of
the Olympic title, won by John
Davies at Helsinki in 1952. He
swam the distance recently in
Brisbane in better time (2min.
36.45ec.), which is Bsec. ahead of
the U.S. Olympic-trials winner.
His Brisbane time has been
beaten in Japan and China this
year, but only slightly.
* * *
“K.R.”: Three members of
the Australian hockey-team for
the Olympics have played
Sheffield Shield cricket. The
team’s captain, lan Dick, and
Maurie Foley have both played
cricket for W.A., and N.S.W. s
Brian Booth could be a future
Test-batsman. Three others in
the team worthy of note are
the Pearce brothers of W.A.,
Mel, Eric and Gordon. Apropos,
W.A., Australia’s strongest
hockey-State, recently won the
Australian hockey championship
in Melbourne. (A sister of the
Pearces, Morna, captained Aus-
tralia at the women’s hockey-
carnival in Sydney earlier this
year.)
* * *
“Veryl”: Most of our
Olympic swimmers are only
teenagers, but as a rule our
representatives in other fields
are at least slightly older. Two
exceptions are 16-year-old
N.S.W. schoolboy Sven Coomer,
who won the Olympic-trial
pentathlon and is in the Games
for that event, and the same-
aged S.A. marksman Peter
Papps, who won the trial rapid-
fire pistol-shooting, and so will
also represent.
* * *
“S^m”: A Maroubra (Sydney)
girl, Edith Cochrane, had no
challengers for a place in the
Olympic team, and was accord-
ingly selected ; she’ll be the first
Australian lass ever to compete
in the women’s Olympic kayak
event (over 500-metres), to be
staged at Lake Wendouree in
November. At Manly Reservoir
recently she recorded 2min.
27.8 sec. for the 500-metres into
a slight headwind—time which
would have been good enough
to have gained her a place in the
event at the 1952 Games
* * *
“Pillo”: Some of the first
enrolments in Lindsay Hassett’s
new school of cricket in Mel-
bourne have been women. Inci-
dentally, Hassett has almost a
State team of masters at his
school Ernie McCormick,
Doug Ring, Jack Hill, Joe Plant,
John Chambers, John Edwards,
George Murray and himseif.
With one exception all have
represented Victoria, and four
of the seven have played Tests.
* * *
There was a strong dash of
thrissel and rois at Rushcutter
Bay when British Empirt
bantam-champ. Peter Keenan
(8.54) went in against Aussie
champ. Kevin James (8.6, after
a frantic last-minute sweat-off)
to settle the issue for the Empire
belt. The Glasgee lad, proving
a game bird for a bantam,
scotched any ideas that James
had on his title when in the
second round he sat the
challenger on the canvas four
times, after which James, glassy-
eyed more than somewhat, must
have appreciated the ref.’s inter-
vention. Tall, thin, awkward,
southpaw, James was 2-to-l-on
to take the title. The Scot’s ability
to get in and under hard and last
nullified the reach-and-heignt
advantage.


No trouble about being
called ; the bar would be open
all night. The mill was on shift-
work in the crushing-season, of
course. They would call us at
half-past-two.
Not trusting country pubs, and
having the facility of waking
myself, I shook Dash at half-
past-two.
The Mail, we found at the
station, would be a bit late. The
mosquitoes were early. They
were there in millions. We lit a
little fire and sat in its smoke.
Dash had his gold-pass, and
thought he’d be able to get a
sleeper on the Mail for the rest
of the way. He got a sitter in
the second-class with two abos.
and a Chinaman.
The Mail delivered us just be-
fore breakfast.
“And, gentlemen, it is fortu-
nate that you were able to get
down. The country is largely cut
off by the rain last night. We
had four-inches here. However,
thpse creeks run off very quickly.
We’ll borrow Joe Woodhead’s
car for you this afternoon. You
are due to speak at the twenty-
seven-mile at eight tonight, and
there’s a message for Mr. Dash.
Will he please ring-up the party
leader at Parliament House at
once? There are developments
in his own electorate which need
his urgent attention.
He books a call. The tele-
phone-wire is down. . .
* ❖ *
“TTAVE you got your personal
letter ready yet, Mr. Bow?”
“Personal letter?”
“Yes. You see, these things
are done to a schedule. First the
candidate draws up a personal
letter, a copy of which is sent
to every elector on the roll. This
letter gives his reasons for
entering Parliament.”
“Well, that’s easy: ‘Because
you asked me to’.”
“I’m afraid that wouldn’t do.
Let me help you, Mr. Bow.
‘Realising that the present wide-
spread suffering is entirely due to
the vicious Government now
occupying the Treasury benches,
with practical Communists in
control who care only for them-
selves, etc., etc., I have decided
to offer myself to the people of
Woopville.’ We’ll get six-
thousand of these printed, and
you can personally sign every
one of them. Then we’ll post
one to every elector.”
And did I get writers’ cramp?
And did the postman get a
headache? Every day he
brought back a dozen marked
“Unknown.” “Deceased.”
“Gone.” “No such address.”
But not all were unkindly
received. Did I not get an
answer from one woman at
Gully Flat and five in town
saying they’d be glad to keep the
affair going?
1 did.
Did I not get an answer from
the secretary of the Railway
Union telling me to lay off?
I did.
Did not an irate opponent
personally redeliver one of my
own letters to me with appro-
priate remarks?
He did! . . .
“There is also the first appeal
for funds, Mr. Bow. This should
be signed by the candidate also.
Fourteen-hundred of them.”
Fancy me putting the touch
into fourteen-hundred people!
The town’s biggest bum, Ben
Bow!
♦t+ » *i*
“TT would be better if Mrs. Bow
A could get away with you to
the country districts for a few
days, Mr. Bow, or rather do you
mind if I call you Ben? It
makes a much better appeal to
the ordinary man-in-the-street if
he can call his candidate by a
Christian-name?”
“So now I’m to be called
Ben? What more can happen
to me?”
“Well, Mr. Bow, if you were
a doctor you would be known
as Doc., which I think slightly
worse . , . By the way, what’s
Mrs. Bow’s name? She should
also use her Christian-name as
much as possible.”
“Brother, I’d like to see you
try! On the wedding-certificate
it says Jacqueline Felicia
Everingham. We all call her
Mum, but a good many years
ago she was called Mae, after an
actress named Mae West, whom
she was supposed to resemble.”
“Mae West? Must have been
before my time; I don’t recall
her. We’ll use that, and when-
ever she answers the phone get
her to say Mae Bow speaking,
will you?”
“Oh, yeah! You have first
try.”
He did. There was more than
a chilling silence at home: “Why
did you tell them my name
was Mae? Don’t tell me
any more lies! No one
knows about it except you
—and that redheaded girl at
the exchange nearly had a fit
four times this afternoon! ”
So four people had rung her
up? What, only four? Forty-
four ring me up every day at
least. Three of them before
breakfast and two after mid-
night. . .
❖
“"VTOW, Ben, we want you to
help young Tallants a bit
up at the Tops. He’s contesting
that seat almost on his own, and
must have at least one supporting
speaker. Will you go up there
and give him a couple of meet-
ings? It’s only ninety miles
away. He’s staying at the Royal,
and the road’s good. If you
leave at five you can easily
do it.”
Who am I supposed to be
now? Malcolm Campbell?
“And be careful not to get
involved in an accident. It could
easily cost you five-hundred
votes. Of course, if you were to
get injured yourself you might
get a sympathy vote ... If, let
us say, for instance . . .”
AH right. So, dodging the
wallabies and cattle on the road
I drove to the Tops and found
young Tallants. He had
arranged two street-meetings. I
was to address both of them,
following him.
The previous day, after
wondering why my own
supporters had not been jailed
for slander, or at least sued for
ten-thousand of the best, .1 had
been told that a candidate must
keep his remarks conservative
and refined, but that a support-
ing speaker must walk into the
Government as hard as he could.
Must apply what was described
as “destructive criticism.”
This time I was the supporting
speaker. Tallants spoke first.
He used what I thought was
the dreariest recapitulation of
everyday knowledge I had ever
heard. I was bored to tears.
But my turn came at last. Now
would I tell the people what I
thought of the Government!
The great day had at last arrived
when I could denounce to the
whole world the rascality under
which we had suffered for so
long!
I spoke for twenty minutes.
I had just touched lightly on
Ned Kelly, truly an injured
citizen, by prevailing standards
—truly a gentleman, in fact—
when the chairman nudged me
and whispered that there was
another meeting and the loud-
speaker was hired for only
another hour.
We moved to the other meet-
ing. Tallants stepped beside me.
He had a request to make.
Would I please refrain from
alluding to them as cutthroats,
thieves and bushrangers?
We went to the pub for a few
minutes after the meeting. Two
men were talking together. I
overheard the words: “I think
he must be Eddie Ward.”
*l* ♦> *
“{yOOD - MORNING, Ben.
Have you brought your
radio-scripts with you? You
recall I asked you to get out
some radio stuff yesterday? If
you nip round to 480 you could
put them on the recorder. Any-
how, we have radio-time booked
for you' this afternoon, and
you’ll have at least one ready.
Better go now.”
It was at the top of a three-
story building. There was a
queue waiting, and no waiting-
room. We stood in the passage-
way.
A young man sneaked silently
out of a door over which a red
light burned. He closed it after
him as if it contained jewellery
and came to me:
“Mr. Bow, we have five
minutes booked for you at lunch-
time and again tonight. That
means two scripts, at least. Can
you get them written and round
here by eleven this morning? I
should be able to take them then,
though, as you can see, there is
plenty of pressure at election-
“Fellow-members of the human race!" —
times. All these other people
are here for the same thing.”
The red light went out and he
jumped back into the room.
So now I’ve got to write
brilliant, inspiring radio-scripts,
too, have I? They must be
appealing to women in the day-
time and must inspire their
husbands to political fervor at
night.
Each script must be suave,
bold, insinuating, aggressive,
original, witty, sarcastic, force-
ful, ruthless and convincing. It
must contain no matter which
could offend. It must relate to
the election. It must take exactly
five minutes to read. It must
stand repetition.
It seems unfortunate that my
name is Ben Bow instead of
Mark Twain Or Charles Dickens.
I took two of these composi-
tions round to the studio, waited
half-an-hour after the appointed
time, sat in the chair before the
microphone and read off the
stuff.
“Now, Mr. Bow, I will play
over the opening theme. When
the music fades-out I will give
you the nod and you commence
reading.”
Simple. A military band
commenced to play loudly.
Suddenly the music faded away,
the announcer was semaphoring
with both hands.
“Is this where I begin?”
“All right, cut it. Mr. Bow,
when you see me drop my
hand start reading, and nothing
else at all!”
The band swelled and faded:
“You are listening to Ben Bow,
the candidate who has the
remedy for all your troubles . . .”
“Thank you, Mr. Bow. I can
use this one at once, but by
ten-o’clock tomorrow I’ll want
five more scripts from you.”
Only five. And by tomorrow
morning . . . Home to lunch.
“Oh, Daddy, they are so
clever! There is such a funny
man imitating you on the wire-
less. You should have heard
him. I laughed until I cried. . .
Here he comes again. Listen
. . . ‘Yeeouw ’r lustnin’ to Ben
Bow. Th’ cannerdate ’oo ’as
the remedy f’r all yer
trubbles’ . .
Who is this person? Can he
be myself? Speaking straight
from the Gabba? Straight
Woolloomooloo? Straight
Fitzroy?
“TVTOW, Ben, today I would like
you to get your personal
pamphlet out , .
“I did that! You remember —
that letter I signed six-thousand
times. Surely you haven’t for-
gotten that girls were here night
after night typing the addresses?”
“No, old man, that was your
personal letter. This is your
personal pamphlet. It will be
eight-inches-by-five. It will be
a folder. The first page will have
your name and photo. The
second will have your personal
history. The third page will have
your personal policy, and the
back will have the party’s policy.
We will print and distribute ten-
thousand of them.
“The back page will also have
a list of the polling-places in
your electorate. By the way, do
you know how many polling-
places there are in your elec-
torate? . . Just fancy a candi-
date not knowing how many
polling-places there are in his
electorate! For your informa-
tion, and please remember it this
time, there are twenty-eight.
“Now let us consider this per-
sonal history of yours. You can
leave out the Order of Buffaloes.
That won’t get you any votes.
So you began as a telegraph-
messenger? Why did every
politician from the Prime
Minister down have to start as
a telegraph-messenger? That’s
been worked to death already.”
I recalled the time I rode the
red pushbike and never thought
it would be held against me. My
personal history? He came back
with a rough draft. I glanced
over it and broke into a mild
sweat... Maybe I’d better scram
for South America.
The list of polling-places. I
counted them. Twenty-eight, all
right, but there seems to be
something wrong. Let me check
this. Ah, here he comes.
“Just a minute, Joe. What
would you think of an organiser
who left three polling-places off
the candidate’s personal folder?
That’s just what you’ve done,
my boy. Doesn’t anybody vote
at Deephole nowadays? What
about Flooded Crossing? I
seem to recall an election there
only last December. Isn’t Bald
Hill still on the map?”
“How lucky we noticed it,
wasn’t it?”
Nohow can a man take a trick
with a guy like that for an
organiser!
❖ ❖
‘“yOUR personal canvass, Ben
A —how is it getting on?”
“Eh? My personal canvass?
You mean, to go round from
door to door knocking people up
and asking them to vote for me?”
“I certainly do, and remember
that you don’t even know your
opponent’s name. If they ask
you who you’re against just say,
‘Some Labor bloke.’ Do you
get it?”
-All right, we’ll start at the
beginning of the electorate.
Junction-street.
Now here’s a woman sitting
in a rocking-chair. I’ll talk to
her. I’ll try her for her vote.
“Certainly, Mr. Bow. I’ll vote
for you. You won’t find my
name on that roll of yours. I live
in Brisbane. But I’ll vote for
you just the same. After all,
it’s all Queensland. You see,
Auntie was sick and George had
been out of work for a while
because the meatworks had
stopped, so I said I’d stay with
them for a day or two. Let’s
see, that’s four months ago.
Doesn’t time fly? But I’ll have
to get back before the election,
because my husband always
scrutineers for the Commos, and
he’d go crook, but I’ll vote for
you for sure. You’re a Red like
us, ain’t you? I heard a bloke
say so at your meeting last night.
He said, ‘He’s a damn’ sight
worse than the Commos,’ he said.
So you must be right.”
Now, here’s another woman
sitting on a veranda . . .
After half an hour: “Sure,
Mr. Bow. I’d like to vote for
you, but of course I can’t. This
is old Joe Dumm’s electorate.
He always comes up from Bris-
bane a fortnight before the
election. Your part is the other
side of the street.”
♦
“-yOU are advertised to
speak at the Crossed
Keys tonight, Ben. See that
you’re there in ample time. Tip
the police off. You will not be
supported by other speakers.”
I got to the Crossed Keys
at ten-to-seven. The bar of the
Keys was solidly jammed.
The meeting had been adver-
tised to start at seven. At
twenty-past-seven the organiser
drove up, full of beans.
He bounced into the lounge of
the pub, borrowed two chairs
and a table without even asking
for them. Put them on the truck,
and said:
“Well, Ben, if you’re ready
we’ll begin. Ladies and gentle-
men, it is my pleasure to intro-
duce to you Mr. Ben Bow. After
what will doubtless be a most
interesting address Mr. Bow will
be most pleased to answer any
question at all which you may
wish to ask. Ladies and gentle-
men, Mr. Bow.”
“Ladies and gentlemen, as you
know” ——
“What about the rise on the
beer?”
“Yeah! Tell us that one!”
“Who put up the beer”
“Ladies and gentlemen, the
character in his shirt-sleeves has
evidently not suffered from any
shortage of beer”
“That’s dirty, that is!”
“Don’t tell us you never had
a beer yourself!”
“My friend, as soon as I get
off this truck I’m going to have
a beer in this very pub. I only
regret that the Electoral Act
prevents me from asking you to
join me”
“Boo! What yer giving us
now?”
“As I was saying, the Gov-
ernment of this State has got
into the hands of the Reds”
“What d’y’ call y’r own
molD?”
“Who shoved up the
cigarettes?”
“The worst employer in this
State is the Government itself.
There’s a policeman there. Ask
him if he does not agree”
“Leave the poor cow alone!”
“My friend, all I can say is
that this is the first time in your
life you have taken the side of a
policeman . .
So, perhaps with two consecu-
tive sentences at most spoken
without interruption, the meet-
ing progressed, until the pro-
prietor of the picture-show came
over and asked us to go away
(Continued on page 34)


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO NORMAN BONSFIELD HUGHES late
of 7 Sybil Street Kogarah New South
Wales and H.M.A.S. Balmoral.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS HUGHES has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1131 of
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse fpr three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorc
Registry Supreme Court King Street o}
nev by 20th December 1956 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
L. W. WILLIAMS, Solicitor, of 79-81
Campsie Street, Campsie, or his Agents,
JONES JONES & JONES, Sorters, °f
183 Pitt Street, Sydney—J. DOUGH Ail,
Registrar. -
IN THE SUPREME 30URT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK ARCHER late of 81
Charles Street Erskineviile Nev* South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that GRACE
MADELINE ARCHER has fiteda Petition
for Divorce No. 915 of 1956 m «
ground of desertion without just cause
excuse for three years and upwards U
you wish to defend you may . .
appearance in the Divorce S
Supreme Court King Street S y
20th December 1956 and obtain a cop.
the Petition without obarge from L.
WILLIAMS, Solicitor, 79-81 Camp
Street, Campsie, or Ins Agents .
JONES & JONES, Solicitors, of I* 3
Street, Sydney.—J. DOIiGHAN, Reg -
Missing Beneficiary .
STATE OF HARRIET EUZABETH
UGHES, deceased.— Whereabouts
ught of WILLIAM ERIC NIENABER,
metimes known as BILL CLAR ,
the abovenamed d^“& iU^n d 1920.
is last heard of m Bro Ken ri
DTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN tw
ch person is before the 21s .
inuary 1957 to send by post to b g
EtTHUR CAMPBELL ot
rie Street, Adelaide, South Austran.
ecutor of the will of the deceas
rtieulars of his claim to a
r will, otherwise he mil b« »»
am the distribution of her
rted by direction o^tInSRYMILL,
South Australia. —STEVENS, k
JUCAUT & JACOBS, Solicitois
secutor.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SATELLITE UNREST?
ANY symptoms of unrest in
Eastern Europe will, of
course, always provoke hopeful
press-comment on the seriousness
of troubles within the Com-
munist empire, and recent evi-
dence —stirrings of defiance in
Poland and conferences between
Khrushchev and Tito at Brioni
and Yalta —has, as the following
sampling indicates, produced a
varied crop of speculation:
J. E. M. Arden, in London
“Spectator ” : “Something critical
is taking place in the Soviet
empire and in Russia itself. In
Stalin’s time the problem was
simple: orders were given and
if, as a result, everyone starved
or felt their national feelings
insulted, why then they starved
quietly and pocketed the insult or
else were shot. And any local
Communists who showed any
signs of hankering after alterna-
tive policies were hanged into the
bargain, after admitting what
revolting swine they were. But
Khrushchev has not been able
to get rid of his rivals and there
is no question of a one-man
show.”
The same : “Khrushchev is not
specially popular with his
colleagues. His policies—and
indeed his private behavior —
have an air of unprincipled
adventurism about them. This is
the one issue on which all his
rivals can unite. It has been
reported that the Party Presi-
dium has not accepted Khrush-
chev’s theory that the Yugoslav
Communist Party is orthodox —
as indeed how could they with
Yugoslavia almost entirely
de-collectivised while neighbor-
ing Bulgaria is, under consider-
able pressure, approaching total
collectivisation. The Soviet
situation is jumpy, and all sorts
of surprises are possible.”
♦ * *
Edward Crankshaw, in Edin-
burgh “Scotsman” : “We can be
certain only of two things arising
out of the Tito-Khrushchev con-
versations at Brioni and Yalta.
The first is that there is, or has
been, a quarrel among the
Kremlin leadership. The second
is that this quarrel has involved
Soviet policy towards the
satellites and Yugoslavia.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in “N. Y.
Times” : “Evidence continues to
accumulate that the process of
dissolving monolithic Stalinism
has brought with it incipient
chaos and confusion.
“Orthodox Communism is
still quarrelling over Tito’s
theory that there are many roads
to ‘Socialism.’ This has caused
noticeably increased tension
both within the Soviet bloc and
among the Marxist parties of the
outer world. The Stalinists, it is
clear, are neither completely
removed from power nor have
they abandoned their dictatorial
precepts. The result is a serious
ideological and political
argument.
“It would appear that even
inside the U.S.S.R. rival factions
are contesting for power. And
outside there is obvious
indecision. The Poles, having
granted some liberty after the
Poznan riots, find freedom is a
commodity difficult to ration.
The Hungarians are puzzled to
discover that dictatorship is hard
to continue without the familiar
dictator.
“Yugoslavia, having extorted
from Moscow a big price in
return for friendlier relations,
seems to be insisting upon fuller
payment than many Russian
leaders wish to make. This situa-
tion not only loosens the Soviet
bloc politically. Everywhere
within the Marxist sphere it has
sowed ideological doubts.”
% * *
“New York Times ” editorial
comment: “The evidence sug-
gests that the process has gone
too far to be stopped, regardless
of what Moscow does. The
edifice of Communist rule in
Eastern Europe was built on a
foundation of Soviet troops, lies
and political oppression. Today
the will of the Eastern European
people is making itself heard
ever more clearly. And that will
unmistakably is for true
independence for freedom and
for a decent material life.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “Com-
munist-party delegations bound
for Belgrade to study Yugoslav
methods and experience are
almost treading on each other’s
heels.
“The ideas which began to
burgeon in Eastern Europe after
the Soviet party congress last
February and have since been
assiduously cultivated by the
Yugoslavs are evidently surviving
the douches of cold water thrown
on them by the Russians. But it
must not be assumed that they
are having an equal success in
each country. They have in
fact cracked the monolithic uni-
formity of the block. Every-
where, it is true, there is evidence
that the Communist rank-and-file
and the intellectuals are in fer-
ment. But in the party juntas
there are conflicting emotions ;
after all, men accustomed to
take their cue from Moscow and
to the protection of the Red
Army or the political police are
bound to view askance ideas that
threaten to undermine these bul-
warks of their existence.”
The same: “In the long run
the crux of the matter —and this
concerns the West as well as the
Communists—is the demand
implicit in the Yugoslav case:
namely, that Communist coun-
tries should be free to act inde-
pendently abroad as well as at
home. The Russians preach the
.idea of ‘peaceful co-existence’
between two rival blocs. The
Yugoslavs, on the other hand,
maintain that the whole idea of
blocs is a mistake; blocs are
a threat both to world peace
and to the independence of the
smaller Powers, while the right
to be neutral is, in their view, a
guarantee of both.
“Unlike the Russians, they
[the Yugoslavs] do not brand
Western Socialists as mere
‘opportunists.’ They claim the
right to mix freely or hold aloof
as they see fit. To the Yugoslavs
all this is inseparable from their
ideas on independence in
domestic policies. Freedom to
play their own neutral role is not
enough—much though they no
doubt enjoy the prestige this
gives them.
“What they seem to be work-
ing for is Russian recognition of
the right of all Communist coun-
tries to take independent deci-
sions in foreign policy, and they
want this because nothing less
will really permanently guaran-
tee their own independence of
Moscow.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”
editorial comment: “Shrouded
in mystery as Soviet develop-
ments still are, two points stand
out: the ambitions of Marshal
Tito, the head of an economic-
ally dependent and militarily
negligible dictatorship, to form
eventually a Balkan federation
independent of Soviet control,
are causing the Kremlin quite as
much anxiety as the ambitions
of Colonel Nasser, head of an
economically bankrupt and
militarily negligible Middle
Eastern dictatorship, to form
eventually an Arab empire, are
causing the West. And the dis-
agreements within Moscow on
how to come to terms with Tito
are no less severe than those
within the Atlantic alliance on
how to settle with Nasser.”
The same: “In essence the
two situations are not dissimilar.
The Soviet Union came to terms
with Tito earlier this year in the
hope of enlisting his support
during the dangerous period of
post-Stalin relaxation. But just
as Britain’s rapprochement with
Egypt in 1954 has not served
to pacify the upsurge of Arab
nationalism, so Mr. Khrush-
chev’s rapprochement with
Yugoslavia has not tempered the
upsurge of independent thinking
among the satellites. Mr.
Khrushchev had argued, against
the strong opposition of Mr.
Molotov, that it was wiser to
heal the Soviet-Yugoslav rift,
even at the price of ideological
concessions to ‘Titoism’ than to
cling to the ‘only one Moscow
road to Socialism’ theory, at the
cost of continuing the Belgrade
rift.
“He seems, however, to have
miscalculated the effect on the
satellites, particularly Poland, of
allowing Tito to think for him-
self. By healing the Belgrade
rift he has opened countless other
fissures all over the Communist
empire.”
* * •
“Yorkshire Post” : “It would
be a mistake to look upon
Marshal Tito as the Anthony of
London “News Chronicle”
“COME ON IN—THE WATER’S FINE."
20th-century Communism with
disciple-rulers from other Com-
munist States rendering him
homage; but it would probably
be correct to see in him the man
to whom other satellite States
look with special interest, since it
was he who broke with Russia
over an issue of interest common
to all —the degree of rigidity with
which they were to be fixed into
an economic system of which
Russia was the beneficiary.”
* * *
Joseph and Stewart Alsop, in
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” : “At
least one thing is reasonably sure
about the mysterious journeys
of Khrushchev to Belgrade and
Marshal Tito to Yalta. The
prime cause of this commotion
in the Soviet bloc lies in Poland
rather than in Yugoslavia.”
* * #
London “Daily Mail”: “Once
men sniff freedom they want
more of it, and the result of the
loosening-up process has been
revolt and rebellion. Malenkov
got the first dose in East
Germany in 1953.
“Last June the bread riots
broke out at Poznan, Poland,
and there has been unrest in
Hungary, Bulgaria, Rumania
and the Ukraine. Political
leaders from these countries
have been to Yugoslavia and
returned full of praise.
“They reason: ‘Khrushchev
says there is more than one road
to Socialism, so why should we
not pursue it, like Yugoslavia?’
Herein lies the danger of a
collapse of the satellite-system.
“When nations seek other
roads to Socialism they may
stumble on the path to
independence. Already the
process has gone far enough to
make it hard to reverse.”
* * *
Gordon Shepherd, in London
“Daily Telegraph”: “The matter
goes far deeper than a mid-
century tussle between two
Communist systems.
“It is the nostalgia of all
these Danubian nations for that
security and collective Great
Power status, lost since 1918,
which gave to Russia’s post-war
satellite empire its only pretence
of natural cohesion. And it is
their yearning to rebuild this
common homeland without the
remote control of Moscow
which has now made a political
challenge out of Yugoslavia’s
ideological ‘heresies.’ ”,
World War III
British press-comment on what
London “Economist” describes
as Field-Marshal Montgomery’s
“annual look into the crystal ball
at the shape of wars to be
avoided”:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“His [Montgomery's] main con-
tention is that our [Britain’s]
present military organisation
and provision is quite hopeless
whether for the purposes of a
police-war or those of a general
war.
“We have, unhappily, just had
evidence that it cannot respond
quickly to the onset of what, in
the military sense, is no great
problem. When the Suez Canal
Zone was evacuated, we were
told that this step would permit
the formation of a swiftly mobile
strategic reserve. When the Suez
Canal was grabbed, nothing of
the sort seemed to exist.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “He
[Montgomery] offends the old
school by favoring a single fight-
ing Service in place of the exist-
ing three,
“There will always be distinc-
tions between land-, sea- and air-
forces. But to retain separate
organisations and Ministries
is out of date in the nuclear age.
What is wanted is one Ministry
of Defence with real power.
“And what is true on the
national scale is even more so
when we shift to the inter-
national scene. There is no 100
per cent, interlocking of effort,
forces, or ideas. If war should
come again the old-fashioned
apparatus of mobilisation and
communication would rumble
ponderously into action and, as
Lord Montgomery says, we
should be lost in a logistical
morass.”
» * V
Edinburgh “Scotsman ” ‘ “In
his [Montgomery’s] opinion, if no
plans are made we [the West]
shall face the East with an
archaic war-machine, unformed
ideas, and in a political muddle.
‘What is the use of working for
economic integration or of
building-up military strength,’ he
asked, ‘if the Western nations
have not first agreed on their
political association and long-
term aims?’ ”
* * *
London “Economist”: “Essen-
tially, the advice [Mont-
gomery’s] is the same as it was:
the focus is on nuclear air-power,
singly controlled, to restrain the
enemy or strike him down if he
attacks, with a shield on land of
‘powerful, compact fighting divi-
sions of all arms,’ possessing
‘their own organic atomic fire-
power’ ; a basic condition is
instant readiness without reliance
on mobilisation; and the
emphasis for policy is on com-
plete unity—of arms, services,
allies and ideas.
“It is only too easy to see how
different this picture is from the
present facts, despite Nato.”
The same: “His [Mont-
gomery’s] assumption all the
time is that, by their unity, their
central control and the proper
use of science, the Western Allies
can achieve ‘immense economies
and saving of effort.’
“How this ‘far less expenditure
of wealth and effort’ is to be
achieved is not made at all pre-
cise. Indeed, the Field-Marshal’s
insistence now on the role of the
Navy points the other way: hav-
ing given a soldier’s blessing to
air-power, ever since he started
to look ahead to World War 11,
he now blesses sea-power, both
to seek out and destroy sub-
marines and to deliver nuclear
missiles from ‘mobile bases.’
“He does no sums, and his
simple answer to the question of
economy would be ‘unselfish
solidarity’ (he gives his blessing,
too, to a united Western Europe).
“No doubt, as always, this
famous commander-astrologer-
gadfly’s prognostications, above
all perhaps his belief that most
battles must now be nuclear, will
provoke great argument; but,
again as always, they throw into
sharp relief what is not being
done.”
"Bull"
Commenting on reports of
restiveness among British reser-
vists recalled to the Army
because of the Suez emergency,
London “Time and Tide” notes
that “The ugly business of dis-
orderly and half-mutinous pro-
tests among the men recalled to
the colors has a number of
human and understandable
reasons, but these are by no
means the whole story” :
“There is a deeper explanation
in irresponsible propaganda.
Popular newspapers and popu-
larity-hunting M.P.s have been
making huge play for years
past with allegations of ‘bull.
No doubt there has been sub-
stance in some of these allega-
tions, though by no means in all,
but the loud-mouthed critics
have never given a thought to the
difficulties confronting the autho-
rities or to the fact that certain
kinds of soldiering are inevitably
time-wasting.
“Time hangs heavy on the
hands of those who have nothing


TUMdty&KlAttMtt.
DIELSAN
DIELDRIN DIP
Registered by the Department of Agriculture,
N.S.W., without modification of claims and
recommendations.
Rate of use which ensures efficiency at lowest
cost established by interstate trials in
Australia and other countries.
Q Does not harm the wool.
Lice and ked control under I£d. per gallon of
Dip. Maximum blow-fly protection under sd.
per gallon of Dip.
FOR RELIABILITY, QUALITY AND EFFICIENCY AT
ECONOMICAL PRICES-DEPEND ON DIELSAN
Available from YOUR LOCAL AGENT OR:
BOOTS PURE DRUG CO. (AUST.) PTY.
376 EASTERN VALLEY WAY, ROSEVILLE,
LTD.
N. S. W.
in their heads, and the minority
of sulky malcontents are better
occupied scrubbing floors than
brawling in their huts or loafing
in the N.A.A.F.I.
“It is a very painful fact
that a proportion of our youth
has never had any discip-
line worth talking about, at
home, in school, or even at
work, till they join the Army.
What they most profoundly
resent is having to stand up
straight, recognise superiority of
rank and authority and do what
they are told. The mud-slinging
popularity-hunters have done
more damage to Army morale in
quite a short time than the malig-
nancy of the Communist agita-
tors has done in 40 years.
“It may be added that a
responsibility hardly less heavy
lies on the Socialists, who have
worked like beavers to destroy
national unity over Suez. They
have half-convinced a dangerous
number of soldiers that their
time is misspent if they hang
about with no action, but would
be even worse misspent if they
were called upon to do some-
thing. Every army has always
had its sprinkling of uncon-
scientious objectors. Our own
[Britain’s] Army has now far too
many of them, thanks to the pro-
pagandists who put press, per-
sonal or political popularity
above the national interest.”
On the same subject, London
“Spectator” adds that the Army
has not been able “to work out
a satisfactory substitute for what
was once thought of as ‘discip-
line,’ and now tends to be dis-
missed as ‘bull’ ”:
“The general faith in the
efficacy of arms-drill, ‘spit and
polish’ and the rest has dimi-
nished sharply since 1939 ; in
any case they are not easy to
apply in the case of reservists.
‘Exercises’ which are designed to
fill time, rather than to use it,
are quickly discerned and
derided.
“The lesson from the ‘in-
cidents,’ in fact, is that the
present structure of the Army,
though it may look reasonable
on paper, is unsatisfactory when
put to the test. If the Army has
to rely as heavily as it apparently
does on reserves it must adapt
itself to their changing require-
ments ; and the Government, in
its turn, must adapt its strategy
to the Army’s limitations.
“If these ‘incidents’ have
taught this lesson, that the new
Army requires to be reorganised
to meet new circumstances, they
will have served their purpose.
The danger is that irresponsible
reports will magnify what are
either trivial or reasonable com-
plaints out of all proportion.”
Various Voices
James Bowman, chairman of
Britain’s National Coal Board:
“There are those who say that
the atomic age is just around the
corner and the coal-industry
won’t be wanted beyond 1970.
All I can say to this is that all
the evidence produced by those
who have studied the problem
points in the opposite direction.
We look like needing a very large
coal-industry in Britain at least
till the end of the century.”
* * *
President Eisenhower : “We
cannot face the future simply
by walking into the past—back-
ward. We must act with the
knowledge that peace can be
sustained, for all the world, only
with wider and growing markets,
rising living - standards and
flourishing world trade among
the free nations.”
Martin Redmayne, D.S.O.
{Lord Commissioner of the
Treasury): “Inflation, though it
is slow poison for the [British]
nation, and a millstone for those
on fixed incomes, is by no means
an unhappy state for the majority
of citizens. The worker thrives
on it, those in industry and
commerce get borne on the tide
of it, rates and taxes swell with
it; it is a happy dreamland.”
* * m
U.S. Under-Secretary of State,
Robert Murphy: “The free
nations cannot tolerate indefi-
nitely the concept of a divided
and precarious world community
in which peace rests only on
the fear engendered by nuclear
stalemate. Despite the variety
of changes that have taken place
on the Soviet scene, the main
elements that make the Soviet
Union a threat to our security
remain unaltered.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Homes for the People
Discussing the problem of housing
the homeless (in rented dwellings),
N. S. Wales Housing Minister Landa
has pointed out that the Landlord and
Tenant Act has been amended especially
so that investors could safely re-enter
the field of building houses to let. Up to
date the number of takers has been
small.
The reason? So long as the legisla-
tion exists in its present form it would
be a matter of moments, almost, for a
Government to control any property not
at present controlled. And, in view of
its record, it is not surprising that the
present regime is unable to command
the confidence of those who could
and, under different circumstances,
undoubtedly would build homes to let.
The Landlord and Tenant Act in
N.S.W. is very much overdue for repeal.
So little of it serves any purpose other
than to “protect” a section of the com-
munity very much able to protect
itself that a completely new Act is
necessary.
Tn W.A. —where the legislation was
adjusted a year or so ago to provide for
the resumption of owner-tenant con-
tractual relations with a right of approach
to a court where the parties could not
agree—the situation has resolved itself
into one where homes to let are readily
available and the number of approaches
to courts for resolution of differences are
insignificant.
In N.S.W., with the removal of the
last of the price-controls except rent-
control, the owner of rented property is
the complete bunny. While wages are
three times as high now as they were in
1939, and the returns from most other
investments are in keeping with wages,
property-owners are expected to be
content with a net return one per cent,
greater than their 1939 figure.
Looking at the effects of the legisla-
tion in all the States, it appears that the
position is reasonable in all except
Queensland and N. S. Wales. Victoria is
not so well off as are the other three
States, but recent amendments to the
legislation will ease the situation when
its full effects are apparent.
In N. S. Wales there are still far too
many homes underoccupied and too
many overcrowded. Letting-rackets still
flourish, and only heartbreak lies ahead
of the young people unless they can
afford 12-guineas and more per week
for short-term furnished lettings. Homes
to let are decreasing in number year by
year as private owners sell them to their
tenants or, where vacant possession is
obtained, on the open market.
The State Housing Commission has
announced that in future the bulk of its
construction programme will be devoted
to homes for sale, while it is struggling
to get rid of its present stock of rental
dwellings. The outlook is grim, and will
become grimmer, for people who, for
various reasons, are compelled to rely on
rented dwellings for their homes.
It is apparent that, where rental and
tenancies are least controlled in Aus-
tralia, the housing-problem itself is least.
The N. S. Wales Government has main-
tained its rigid controls for so long that
any benefits they might have conferred
upon the community would have been
apparent long ago. Since the position is
still most acute, no harm can be done by
removing the controls and giving the
position an opportunity to rectify itself.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
£337 Million
When a unionist loses a shilling a
week from his wage-packet by order of
an Arbitration Court it is represented as
a national disaster; but when a section
of the community loses £337 million of
its spending-power over a period of five
years—well, that passes without a com-
ment save for possible mention as a bit
of Tory propaganda.
The unfortunate fact remains that,
since the peak year of 1950-51, the value
of Australian primary production has
fallen from £751 million to £414 million.
This situation calls for an all-party
review. Costs to the farmer rise with
every rise in the wage-spiral and his
prices go steadily down. Fertiliser, petrol,
kerosene and diesel-fuel, sprays and insec-
ticides have all had from three to four
price-rises during the last two years, but
the farmer is still what an enterprising
American described as “a man who pays
what the other fellow wants when he
buys something, and sells at what the
other fellow wants to pay when he sells
something. Therefore he is either a
philanthropist or a damn’ fool—probably
both.” —Pineap (Q.).
The Decimal System
Arthur Falk (B. 19/9/’56) assumes that
the decimal-system is superior to our
existing, basically duodecimal, inch-
shilling-dozen system. This has yef to be
proved.
The sole solid basis for the decimal-
system of counting is the number of
fingers on a pair of human hands. This
physiological fact led to the development
of a numerical system depending on
multiples of 10. European countries, to
bring their weights and measures into line
"Gives me the pip , all this yap about greater productivity."
with decimal counting, adopted the same
system for weighing and measuring, but
leaving the circle divided in multiples of
60 and creating a temperature-measure-
ment system—Centigrade—in which zero-
absolute and the freezing-point of water
are separated by the odd figure of 273
decrees.
And to what purpose? The French
housewife still counts her eggs by the
dozen—because three eggs fit the hand
comfortably—and the Swiss watchmaker
uses as his standard of length the “ligne”
or the twelfth-part of an inch. The truth
is that after a century or more of the
decimal-system Europeans are still not
very happy with it.
Would it not have been more logical to
convert our entire counting-method to
duodecimal? The terminology is already
there —dozen, gross, great gross—and the
system has some enormous advantages.
The greatest of these is the number of
factors of 12. Ten has but two factors —
five and two. Twelve has four factors —
six and two, three and four. So we would
have double the small numbers which
would divide into our base-number.
Critics have said, “But that still deprives
us of that very valuable factor five, and
you can’t very well do without it.” The
answer, of course, is “Use the five to
multiply the twelve.” The result is 60,
and we have thus unified our counting-
system with the division of the circle and
the measurement of time as both these
systems are at the moment.
To analyse the system: we take two,
three, four, five and six as our basic
factors and we give the duodecimal-
system the flexibility the decimal-system
lacks ; we combine the best features of
both systems and, for the first time, bring
into line weighing, and the measurement
of length, angles and time. —Burr Imul
(S.A.).
Land-tax
Apart from the generally obnoxious
aspect of a tax that intrudes upon the
preserves of local-government, land-tax
as proposed by the N.S.W. Government
will most certainly prove to be a wasteful
tax in that too large a proportion of the
estimated tax-yield will be swallowed in
collection-costs.
Land-tax, if it must be imposed, should
be levied on all land at a flat rate and
should be collected by local-governing
authorities along with their rates and
passed on to the Government, less an
agreed-upon levy for collection.
Cost of collection would be relatively
small and it would be easy enough to pro-
vide for the passing of the tax on to
tenants. Residential land up to, say, £lOOO
u.c.v. could be exempted and so protect
the owner and occupier of the ordinary
type of residential property. —Cave
(N.S.W.).
School-leaving-age
One of the measures suggested for
reducing delinquency in Victoria is
raising the school-leaving-age to 15
immediately and, later, to 16.
There is no evidence so far, however,
to show that delinquency is worse in
Victoria than in other States where the
leaving-age is higher. In the United
States, where the leaving-age is 16 in most
of the States and 18 in a couple of them,
delinquency is, from all accounts, far
more prevalent.
Keeping a boy at school for another
year or two after he turns 14 will not
save him from delinquency —it may even
increase his tendency towards it, par-
ticularly if he has already obtained all
that schooling can give him. Such a
youngster may well chare under a sense
of frustration, feeling that he is being
denied the opportunity to earn his liveli-
hood and to do a job that appeals to
him and is well within his capacity,
An inherent fallacy in the whole theory
is the idea that increased schooling is
beneficial to the individual,
Some children would, undoubtedly,
benefit if the age were raised ; others—
possibly a considerable proportion—
would not. From all accounts delinquency
is just as prevalent amongst teenage
schoolchildren as it is among those who
are earning. Raising the leaving-age
would do nothing to solve the
delinquency-problem. It would, however,
add appreciably to the burdens of many
parents and —at present augment the
difficulties of the State in providing
schools and teachers.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Savings-bank Deposits
“Ceg” (B. 17 /10/ ’56) is rather unfair
to the State Savings Bank of Victoria a
bank I’ve known from the inside for 20
years. The pivot of his criticism is the
fact that the bank’s deposits increased by
only £4 million in the year ended June,
1956. The wonder is that there was any
increase.
Naturally, those depositors who liked
the idea of keeping their savings- and
trading-accounts under the one roof took
the first opportunity to do so. Others
who had overdrafts with the . trading-
banks were urged to transfer not only
their own but their whole family s
accounts. So there was at first a steady
flow of money across to the new savings-
banks ; but that flow has now died to
a trickle.
It is worth noting, too, that the trading-
banks had their savings-figures bolstered
by internal transfers.
“Ceg” is wrong in claiming that State
Savings Bank managers do not chase new
business. True, they have not in the past
competed with their trading-bank counter-
parts at the bowling-club or R.S.L. clubs
for business —in such places it is not a
question of creating new business, but
merely a matter of fighting for a share
of what already exists.
The State bank’s staff has done its mis-
sionary work in the schools and factories.
Currently, 385,000 pupils have accounts
in the school-bank department, with an
aggregate balance of just on £2 million.
And as each leaves school he will receive
a personal invitation to transfer his
account to the local department.
In pre-war days, officers of the bank
went into factories to lecture employees
on the virtues of thrift, and made specia.
provision for them to bank in their wor -
ing hours through “definite-pui pose
accounts —the forerunners of the cuiien
national savings-groups.
Nor is it true that the bank has taken
only half-hearted measures to meet
new competition. No fewer than -
branches were opened during the bnancr
year, and there have been several m
since. The bank has struck a ve -
shrewd counter-blow by arranging '
Victoria's State Electricity Commis
for the latter’s customers to pay
accounts at any branch of the ban
service almost every householdei in ±
bourne is using.
Competition is as good for banking a
any other business, but I’m willing
that next year’s figures will show
toria’s State Savings Bank naore
holding its own. — Cash Count (


Medals
The Army Medal Section seems to be
considerably embarrassed by the failure
of some 470,000 veterans from World
War II and Korea to claim the medals
which the section is holding in trust for
them.
Why should it be necessary to claim
them? Since applicants are merely re-
quired to quote full name and address
and former service-number, it follows
that the section relies on Army Records
to decide the actual entitlement. So why
not mail them to the last recorded address
of the men and women concerned? If
this had been done as soon as the medals
were available, probably 90 per cent,
would have come into the right hands.
Why this reluctance to claim medals
which are, after all, a public acknow-
ledgment of service given to one’s
country? A few of the 470,000 may be
too modest, considering the service they
gave as trivial compared, say, with the
hammering taken by the civilians of
London; many are too lazy to be
bothered lodging a claim; some 'were con-
scripted against their wills and still resent
it; others just want to forget the whole
unpleasant business.
It does seem, however, that the status
of medals' has slumped—there are so
many of them about and so
large a proportion of the popu-
lation is entitled to them that
any distinction they bestowed has
virtually disappeared.— Hist (N.S.W.).
Public-service Cuts
As one who has made a quasi-honest
crust inside and outside the public
service, I feel qualified to break a pencil
with “In the ACT’ (B. 25/7/’56), who
apparently is, or has been, a working
journalist.
How would his no-recruitment-for-
three-years plan work in the case of a
metropolitan daily or national weekly?
At the bottom of the ladder cadets would,
in the learning of their profession, be
somewhat handicapped by having to do
at least some of the work of the copyboys
who had not been recruited. At the other
end of the line, management would snort
at paying an editorial screw to a man
who spent a good deal of his time
subbing.
Outside the public service .and journal-
ism, it would be reckoned bad business
for highly-paid executives to devote part
of their time to non-executive matters
which should engage the attention of men
on a much lower salary.
Since “In the ACT” says it’s easy to
point to examples of loafing in the public
service, he has, presumably, a lot to do
with public servants, and should know
that those on salaries of approximately
£l6OO a year still have to punch a bundy,
a requirement seemingly not insisted
upon by newspaper managements—as
evidenced by the Australian Journalists’
Association’s sensible but repeated
appeals for members to sign the office
time-books.
It can be contended that punctuality
in attendance does not guarantee
conscientious work, but hasn’t “In the
ACT” seen a public servant, after an
uneasy glance at the clock, leave a pleas-
ing company of journalists, who,
•although officially engaged on their
rounds or assignments, find this no
reason to break-up a pleasant
gathering? There is no
statistically significant differ-
ence in the numbers of loafers
among public servants,
journalists, tinkers or tailors.
By his contention that an
independent committee of
capable businessmen should
overhaul the Federal depart-
ments, “In the ACT” tacitly
declares his no-confidence in the
ability or real desire of the
department’s own organisation-
and-methods teams to perform
this task efficiently. He should
know that intra-departmental
investigation-teams consist of
ambitious humans determined to
advance their own positions,
and, since this advancement
comes after proven ability to
save costs, the odds are on the
overhauling job being done
efficiently.
As far as the allegedly
swollen numbers of the public
service are concerned, the
enlarged post-war ramifications of gov-
ernment must be considered. With that,
and with the increase in the pre-war and
post-war staffs of private business, it
appears that the public-service increase
in staffs is not disproportionate.—
VINGTER (Vic.).
Hire-purchase
My old bomb having given up the
ghost and being worth only £l3O at the
boneyard, I decided to get a lighter
utility in good condition, and finally
settled on a popular make which had a
£470 price-tag on it.
I raised £2OO cash, which left me £l4O
short, so I signed on the dotted line for
a h.-p. agreement over two years.
That costs me £8 15s. a month, which
includes insurance of £2OO on the car.
It looks all right on the surface, par-
ticularly as the bank wouldn’t extend my
overdraft for another £l4O.
For the £l4O I’m borrowing, however,
I’m going to repay £2lo—and £7O seems
a lot to pay for the privilege of borrow-
ing £l4O for a couple of years. Add
£2 Bs. for the 24 bank-orders which are
necessary for the payments, and there’s a
tidy sum represented in “additions” to
the original loan.
And the utility isn’t mine. I’m driving
it per favor of the h.-p. company,
although I’m bound by contract to keep
it in good condition, register it and care
for it like a ewe-lamb.
What gets me is this: the bank wouldn’t
advance the £l4O, which would have
represented a return of £l5 Bs. to it on
the first year, and half that on the second
year. But it was still willing, despite my
overdraft, to allow me to enter into the
contract with the h.-p. company.
It doesn’t seem to add-up to good
business —the more I have to pay to the
h.-p. company the less I’ll be able to pay
off the overdraft. — Fordpop (Q.).
Rail-gauges
The scheme advocated by W. C. Went-
worth deserves the support of everyone
interested in Australia’s progress. I took
some part in the spate of correspondence
which filled the papers about 30 years
ago when the Bruce-Page Government
was in power. The plans were ready and
Bruce was prepared to make a start.
Unfortunately an election was in the
offing and he had to postpone the idea.
The Government was defeated and the
new Labor Government pigeonholed the
plans indefinitely.
Again, just before the last war, Sir
Harold Clapp was commissioned to draw
up a comprehensive plan for the total
unification of all the railway-gauges in
Australia. The advantages were demon-
strated by completion of the Brisbane
extension of the N.S.W. standard-gauge,
and the extension of the Trans, line from
Port Augusta to Port Pirie.
Sir Harold Clapp’s plan was duly com-
pleted and presented to Parliament. It
was to cost £2OO million. No doubt
something would have been done but the
war halted any hope of that until normal
life was again possible.
Only now, when transport throughout
Australia is in a state of chaos and grow-
ing worse daily, has Mr. Wentworth got
the House to listen to him. What he
advocates is only a part of the vast net-
work needing unification, but it is the
most urgent part. The smashing of the
highway from Sydney to Melbourne, and
like deterioration beginning in Victoria,
shows the urgency of some alternative
scheme being undertaken immediately.
It would be madness to allow an
interested road-transport company to
build a colossal road-system while the
railways, the only real transport for
heavy goods, are starved and losing
“Could YOU do better with only a nailfile?”
millions. The Government must do the
job and the sooner the better. A standard-
gauge track to Melbourne is imperative
and cannot be delayed. Mr. Wentworth’s
other schemes are hardly less urgent.
The manpower needed to run road-
services is 10-times that for the railways.
“Thanks for the lift home , Charlie."
A train of 1500 tons can be operated by
three men. It would need 100 to man
enough lorries to carry that weight.
Further, upkeep of roads is quite as costly
as that of railway-tracks.— John S.
Dence (N.S.W.).
Wine and Grapes
Sales of Australian wine in the U.K.
should reach a million gallons this year
and create a post-war record, according to
information reaching Australia from
London.
The increase has been brought about
mainly by sales of blended sweet sherry
which, because of its reasonable price and
good quality, has become very popular.
Other countries may copy the Australian
idea, however—Spain and Portugal have
already done so, but only in a small way
so far.
The trade thinks that Australian c.i.f.
prices should not go above 1 Is. per gallon,
otherwise importers would have to raise
prices above the straight 10s. a bottle or
reduce the strength to below 30 per cent,
proof spirit, which would not be good
business, particularly when the trade
looks so promising.
Difficulties confronting the French
growers have also helped to boost Aus-
tralian sales.
A section of the London trade con-
siders that the long years in which French
table-wines have dominated the British
market may be numbered. Recent price-
rises may drastically reduce consumption.
The year looks like being one of the most
difficult ever experienced by French
growers. February frosts wrought
havoc in many Bordeaux vineyards, and
the French Government has withdrawn
its export-subsidy of about 10s. a hogs-
head. Labor- and transport-costs have
risen.
These difficulties are being passed on
to the wine-drinkers in the U.K. at the
rate of Is. 6d. or 2s. a bottle on the
cheaper wines. Importers of Spanish,
Portuguese and especially Australian
table-wines are making the most of this
opportunity. A free public tasting of Aus-
tralian wines at a Glasgow exhibition
resulted in a remarkable sales-increase,
particularly in Scotland.
While prospects look bright overseas,
Australian grape-growers are not at all
happy with the prices paid for grapes over
the past few years. Prices are pounds—in
some instances £lO per ton —below the
cost of production determined by the
Federal Bureau of Economics in a survey
made last year.
A deputation from the Federal Grape
Growers’ Council recently put to the
Minister for Primary Industries a case
for higher prices, and asked for some
form of stabilisation. Many growers have
pulled out unwanted black varieties, and
if this continues the time may soon come
when there will not be enough grapes to
keep up the export of wine to the U.K.
Most of the makers realise this and
have expressed their concern. Some
authority to fix uniform prices is badly
needed if competition is to be eliminated,
but just how to implement this is the
problem.
The Minister has agreed to call a con-
ference of makers and growers in the
near future to see if some method can be
devised. Growers contend that this should
be possible, especially as excise-duty in
Australia is favorable and more or less
stable. It would be a misfortune for all if
the trade in Britain, built up after much
hard work and expense, was ruined
because supplies could not be guaranteed,
—R. M. (N.S.W.).


Contrary to the
opinion of many
graziers weather con-
ditions need not be
taken into considera-
tion when marking
lambs. If Elastrator
Rubber Rings are
used the work can be
carried out with equal
safety whether the
day is hot with blow-
flies prevalent, or is
cold and wet.
m
TTr
l l:
>r?
riL t
The new 3 h.p. “Farmers’ Boy Major” fitted with
plough turning over 9in. width and 9in. depth.
Our illustration shows one use for the
“FARMERS' BOY
MAJOR”
which with the well known Farmers’ Boy Series II is filling
the wants of those who need a 3 h.p. as against a 1£ h.p.
Multi-Purpose Tractor. Both have a similar large range of
accessories for rotary hoeing, scything, ploughing, culti-
vating, etc., etc.
For full particulars please contact your nearest
State Distributor.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hubert Stokes & Co. p ty. Ltd., 32
Whiting St., Artarmon. JF4396-JFIIBO.
Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 46 Young et.,
Sydney. BUISII.
Victoria: Grazcos Co-operative Ltd., 90 William
St., Melbourne. MU8551.
Stb. Aust.: M. S. McLeod Ltd., 176-180 Pulteney
St., Adelaide. W 1551. , . , ~
Q’land: Buzacotts (Qld.) Ltd., 443 Adelaide »t.,
Brisbane. FA2631. _ v b
Tasmania: Cameron & Sutherland Ltd., 110 lors
St., Launceston. Laun. 2645.
173 Murray St., Hobart. 82264.
W. Aus.: Western Machinery Co. Pty., Lta., w*
Murray St., Perth. 8A2495.
Australian Agents:
HUBERT STOKES & CO. PTY- LTIJ.,
32 Whiting Street, Artarmon. jF4396^jrx^-__
INFORMATION COUPON
(Please post to your nearest State Distribn or
Please post me, free, details of the “Farmers’ Boy Major
and Accessories.
NAME *
ADDRESS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE HENTY DISTRICT
THE town of Henty was named
after an early station-owner
who was a member of the well-
known Henty family, pioneers
of W.A. and Portland Bay,
Victoria. In 1866 Edward Henty,
J. Henty, and S. Stephen Henty,
held station interests also in
N. S. Wales—l 4 in all.
To reach Henty, one travels
along 40 miles of asphalt road,
from Riverina’s capital, Wagga,
on the Murrumbidgee. The
stretch of plains, enclosed in the
far distance by undulating green
hills, discloses, with each mile,
the type of “improved” country
now becoming characteristic 'of
the southern districts of the
State. Judges of pasture and
fodder competitions have recently
said that nowhere in New South
Wales has the change in the
pattern of agricultural produc-
tion been so pronounced as in
the southern districts.
From Henty, the highway
leads on for about the same
number of miles to the Victorian-
border city of Albury. The type
of agricultural and grazing land
makes it plain why buyers
of sheep and cattle representing
Victorian and N. S. Wales
interests operate locally to an
extent which makes the whole
district a sort of market; some-
times buyers come from as far
afield as South Australia.
We speak of Harden-
Murrumburrah, Cowra-Blayney-
Bathurst, Albury-Corowa, as if
these districts were self-
contained areas (as, in a sense,
they are), and, similarly, Henty
and Culcairn are linked.
Henty’s urban area was
created in January, 1911. Present
population is approximately
1150. The Culcairn Shire has
an area of 600 square-miles, and
a population of 4500. Average
size of holdings is 650 acres.
There are still about 12 pro-
perties within the shire with an
area of 2000 acres or more, but
all the original large holdings
have been cut up.
Mr. James Jervis, honorary
research-secretary of the Royal
Australian Historical Society,
has kindly given me some
information on the original
holdings of the Henty family.
Henty and Neil held Round Hill
(4500 acres) in 1866; Walla
Walla (44,800 acres) was in the
hands of S. Stephen Henty.
Round Hill carried sheep, Walla
Walla cattle.
Of late years s.w.-slopes
graziers have patronised the
sheep-sales at Henty a good
deal. There have been some
attractive yardings of Corrie-
dales, particularly.
The township’s altitude is
about 800 ft., but to the west the
country would rise in parts to
100 ft. to 150 ft. above this, in
undulations. To the east the rise
may exceed 200 ft. above the
township level. The climate is
rather cold in winter, and most
of the rain comes in the winter ;
summers are fairly dry, normally.
Temperature is not excessive—
the normal temperature for low-
elevation inland areas.
Carrying-capacity varies quite
a bit, from natural pasture to
fully improved, with all the
shades between. Normal carry-
ing would be something like a
dry sheep per acre —perhaps a
little less —but under intensive
improvement this could be lifted
to 1| ewes per acre or better ;
provided there has been some
fodder-conservation to with-
stand the normal, fairly dry,
autumn. .
Rainfall is around 21in. —lower
than the western side, and
higher than- the eastern side.
The district is good, sound,
grazing country. It has been
used extensively for wheat in the
past, but sheep are the main
source of income.
Soils vary. There are small,
low-lying, wet patches, and types
vary from grey-loam-shale to
granite. But the bulk of the
soil is particularly suited to
pasture-improvement. White-
and grey-box can be seen in the
well-fenced paddocks, and there
is a quantity of natural pine in
some areas, and probably (from
my observation) more pine has
been planted as windbreaks in
the plain paddocks, of a number
of properties.
At Culcairn Show, * held
recently, the Jersey judge said
that the entries submitted were
in splendid condition ; the Short-
horn judge said quality was high
and that the champion female
could be shown to advantage
at State competitions ; and the
judge of the Corriedale, Border
Leicester and Romney Marsh
sheep (J. Daley of Wagga)
commented very favorably on
the standard of all three breeds.
The grand-champion Merino
ram, owned by A. F. Piltz, was
a magnificent type of sheep, a
fine-wool. The champion Corrie-
dale ram (housed) was owned by
J. M. Maher.
Something of an innovation
was a farmer’s class for “three
dual-purpose ewes,” and another
for “two most payable wethers.”
First place in the State finals
of the husbandry-section of the
1956 Merino ewe-competition
was filled by H. W. Kreutzberger,
of Wattle Park, Henty. The
competition is conducted by the
“Farmer and Settler” newspaper,
in conjunction with the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture. Mr.
Kreutzberger has a property of
1113 acres, together with a
smaller holding of 230 acres
situated four miles from the main
property.
His main property is sub-
divided into 19 paddocks, with
water in each. In the past, in this
portion of the Riverina, water
was rather a problem. Sub.-
“ G’wan home!”
clover was first sown on the
property about 30 years ago, and
has now spread through every
paddock. Perennial-rye and
HI-rye were introduced in recent
years. There are also small
experimental areas of phalaris.
Superphosphate is largely used—
a yearly “spread” of from 30
to 40 tons.
Approximately 100 acres of
oats are sown annually, thus
providing for winter grazing and
harvesting. The State judge, Mr.
Hawkins, found some 10,000
bales of pasture-hay and 3600
bushels of silo-stored oats. The
number of sheep to be shorn
on the property (shearing is now
over) was over 2000. Mr.
Kreutzberger also carried 110
head of cattle.
Sheep are of Mungadal-blood
(A. Hordern, Hay), exceptionally
well - grown, medium - wool
Merinos.
The southern inland zone
1956 Pasture and Fodder Com-
petition, conducted by the Royal
Agricultural Society of N.S.W.,
was won by R. B. Scott and Son,
Glen Elgin, Henty, with a score
of 830 points out of a possible
1000. Round Hill Pty., Ltd.,
Culcairn, was five points behind
the winner. Third was A. D.
Chant, Beechworth, near
Coolamon.
The Scotts have 2250 acres,
subdivided into 39 paddocks, all
of which have from time to time
been sown to pasture and top-
dressed. Principal pastures were
Wimmera-rye, Mt. Barker and
some Dwalganup sub.-clover,
and lucerne. Some of the early
work with subterranean-clover
dated back to about 1928.
In the past, when Henty was
mainly an area for wheat, the
district had some notable
farmers. Now, with the changing
pattern of land use, the district
is showing what can be done
with a more balanced system of
agriculture.
Mary Last.
Pittman Technique
The Bulletin was good enough
to publish, in the issue of January
4, 1956, details of the origin of
a method of clover-establish-
ment for acid soils where healthy
nodulation does not naturally
develop.
The method, known widely as
the Pittman technique, which was
developed before 1943 by
H. A. J. Pittman of the Victorian
Department of Agriculture, has
made pasture - improvement
possible by the successful and
economical establishment of
clover in all the high-rainfall acid
soils of Victoria, and in many
parts of N.S.W.—notably the
Pilliga Scrub.
The technique involves the use
of 50-50 lime and super,
heavily concentrated in bands
with inoculated clover-seeds.
Vigorous growth and healthy
nodulation has resulted by this
method on soils as acid as
pH 4:1.
Bulletin readers, and in
particular those who wrote at
the time, to the paper and also
to me personally, will be
interested to know that the Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture featured the Pittman tech-
nique in plots in their R.A.S.
display in Melbourne last month.
The plots showed, on a typi-
cally acid (Wandong) soil, the
response by clover to:
2cwt. super, broadcast (nil).
lOcwt. lime and lcwt. super.
broadcast (meagre).
2cwt. 50-50 lime and super,
drilled (excellent).
Furthermore, the display by
Commonwealth Fertilisers fea-
tured pasture-plots from the
property of an enthusiastic Pitt-
man disciple (J. Prictor, Carls-
ruhe). These plots demonstrated
similar successful clover-estab-
lishment by sod-seeding 50-50
lime and super, with 2oz. molyb-
denum-inoculated seed.
These displays, and a recent
article in the Victorian “Journal
of Agriculture” giving endorse-
ment to the method and acknow-
ledgment to the originator, bring
to a happy ending the sad story
outlined in my letter to The
Bulletin in January.
It seems clear that at long last
all Australian authorities accept
Pittman’s “philosophy” regard-
ing the use of reverted or 50-50
lime and super, in clover-estab-
lishment on the acid soils which
form so much of our high-rain-
fall country.
Another feature, and to me
an even more startling and im-
portant aspect of the Pittman
“philosophy,” now needs proper
examination.
Pittman has long argued that
the greater part of all super-
phosphate used' to top-dress
pastures in Australia is wasted,
that the broadcast-spreader and
even the dropper are implements
we cannot afford to use, and
that fertilisers, particularly
superphosphate, should be
drilled into the soil in ribbons,
preferably 18in. or more apart.
My own experience with using
the sod-seeder for top-dressing
seems to confirm this. But any
method that claims to increase
the value of our imported ferti-
lisers needs fullest investigation.
On present usage, the sub-
stantiation of this claim could
mean a free gift of an extra
million tons or more of much-
needed imported superphosphate
to the primary producer.
K. G. SCHOEFFEL.
Improved Pastures
“Agricola”: The trap-rock
and granite-belts of South
Queensland stretch from
Warwick south to the border and
west to Texas.
Extremes of temperature are a
feature. The mercury may rise to
100°F. in the summer and fall to
10 °F. in the winter. The rainfall
is modest, the average for the
past 60 years being 29.5 inches.
It’s easy to imagine what effect
this would have on natural
pastures. The advent of spring
storms and warm weather
promotes rapid growth, and early
frosts burn-off the grass, leaving
it dry and unpalatable.
Improved-pastures are helping
to overcome this. In 1955, 4650
acres had been laid down to
improved species, and in 1956 a
further 1550 acres were sown.
The results have more than
justified the expenditure, and
improved-pastures will play a
major role in beef- and wool-
production in this area.
Winter pastures are favored,


m
LTD
LAND
COLUMN
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simple! Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
m
I
II
Reading the Bunyip Level. Atmosyner «
buttons pressed in.
Ideally serves
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
rero to 50 feet.
m
mt
1
mmm
Showing atmosphere button and tube in
position.
The Bunvip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
a?
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
YEOMANS
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
337 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
31X2515
Agents throughout Australia.
Dill in Coupon and send to us for
full facts of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
NAME ...
ADDRESS
6808
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly 22/6
and the following mixtures (per
acre) have given good results.
In the trap-rock country:
Lucerne, l|lb.; Mt. Barker
sub.-clover, ; phalaris, 31b.;
cocksfoot or Wimmera-rye, lib.
The mixture for granite-soils
is:
White-clover, lib.; Mt. Barker
sub.-clover, 21b.; phalaris, 31b.;
perennial-rye, lib.
Winter pastures predominate
in this part of the State. They
give a feed of high-quality
protein when it is most wanted.
Summer pastures have proved
successful, and these mixtures
have been sown.
In the trap-rock soils:
Lucerne, 21b.; Mt. Barker
sub.-clover, 241 b. ; Rhodes-grass,
41 b.
In the granite soils:
Mt. Barker sub.-clover, 21b.;
Rhodes-grass, 31b. to 41b.
Compaction of the top-soil in
the trap-rock country is a bit of
a problem.
Several landowners have tried
“keylining” the paddocks. They
think, if the run-off of water is
stopped, compaction may be
prevented and the water that
would otherwise be lost will be
retained in the soil.
.A. Clothier of A.C.F. and
Shirleys, and G. R. Lee, State
Agricultural Agrostologist, have
been largely responsible for
encouraging improved-pastures
in these areas.
Graziers have grasped the
opportunity to provide their
stock with a protein-rich winter-
pasture. Woolgrowers have been
able to breed flock replacements
and fatten culls off the shears.
Beef-producers have noticed
a marked improvement 'in the
condition of their cattle.
Even if these pastures haven’t
always carried more stock per
acre, the stock has been better
conditioned. And if this were
the only benefit, the improved-
pastures would be very valuable.
Cattle-tick
J. F. Doyle: Spread of cattle-
tick in the central highlands of
Queensland is worrying cattle-
men. The central-highland
region comprises the shires of
Bauhinia, Emerald and Peak
Downs, and about two-thirds of
the Jericho Shire, the aggregate
area being about 3500 square-
miles. Distance from the coast
varies from 100 to 300 miles. .
Continual wet seasons have
caused the cattle-tick to spread
hundreds of miles into cattle-
country previously considered
clean, and ticks have appeared in
the Aramac and Tambo areas.
The main trouble confronting
the cattlemen is that plunge-dips
have not been put down, as they
were not needed until recent
years. And, besides, dip-building
is a lost art to-day. But pre-
fabricated steel dips are now
available. Brisbane price for a
3000 gal. dip, 39ft. long and Bft.
deep, is about £413.
Potash from Suint
“Geep”: Suint is defined as
the naturally occurring fleece-
components which are soluble in
cold water. A. J. Farnworth, of
C.5.1.R.0. Wool Textile Research
Laboratories, has published the
results of preliminary' investiga-
tions of these components.
Though its actual composi-
tion is ill-defined, suint consists
mainly of potassium salts of
fatty-acids, together with traces
of phenols, reducing sugars,
urea, and other minor com-
ponents, both organic and
inorganic.
The average potassium-content
of suint was found to be 26
per cent. Sodium, calcium,
magnesium, aluminium, and
iron, occurred in amounts from
1.3 per cent, down to mere
traces. Among the organic-acids
identified were acetic, citric and
oxalic.
With suint comprising about
1.5 per cent, of the original
greasy weight of wool, and
itself containing, say, 26 per cent,
potassium, a little arithmetic will
show that the annual Australian
wool-clip contains about 8000
tons of potassium.
This is equivalent to about
15,000 tons of potassium-
chloride, which is the form in
which most of our potash-
fertilisers are imported. Our
imports of these fertilisers were
13,500 tons in 1954 and 26,800
tons in 1955.
Leaving out the small per-
centage of our clip that is
scoured in Australia, it can be
seen that we export almost as
much potash in our wool as we
import in the form of fertiliser.
This is a pity, but at present
there’s little that can be done
about it.
Though there has been some
development on the Continent
(but very little in U.K.) of pro-
cesses for the recovery of potash
from scouring-liquors, it is
dubious if the process at its
present stage can hope to
compete commercially with
large-scale mining production.
The problems are economic, not
technical.
Protein Per Cent.
“Parilla”: Protein-conscious
stockowners who cannot grow
good lucerne-hay should do
their best to make a good sample
of clover-hay; protein-content
is only one or two per cent,
lower than lucerne’s 15 per cent.
Wheat has 10 to 12 per cent,
of protein.
Silage made from young grass
has plenty of protein, but there
is so much water mixed with it
that stock have to eat a lot of it
to get their required amount of
protein.
Being low in protein, dry
grass is a poor feed. There’s so
little protein in a stomach full of
it that stock cannot eat enough
to get their requirements.
Of the concentrates, meat-meal
has a protein-percentage of 40
to 60; linseed-meal, 30; and
proprietary pellets, 20 and more.
Growing animals need a
minimum of 10 per cent, protein
in their diets. Stock being
hand-fed during a drought can
get along on 5 per cent, protein
—no less.
It is wasteful to provide too
much protein in the ration.
Everything above the animal’s
needs is converted into energy
which can be obtained much
more cheaply from other food.
Skeleton-weed
“Pirro”: Sulphate-of ammonia
at seeding-time can play a big
part in controlling skeleton-weed
in wheat-crops, according to
experiments at the Ma 11 e e
Research Station, Walpeup
(Vic.).
Outstanding results there
followed the application of
1201 b. per acre of sulphate-of-
ammonia as well as the normal
amount of super, at the time
when wheat seeded, followed by
spraying with ester 2, 4-D at |lb.
acid-equivalent per acre when
the centre stalk of the weed began
its upright growth.
Two years of this treatment
almost eliminated the weed.
Some regrowth is expected, but
further work should improve
these results.
Single plants; and small patches
of the weed, can be wiped-out
by spraying with 101 b. of
sodium-borate per 100 sq.-ft.,
or 61b. of a 3:1 mixture of
sodium-borate and sodium-
chlorate per 100 sq.-ft. Nothing
is likely to grow on these patches
for at least two years—not even
skeleton-weed.
In Walpeup experiments,
M. and amine 2,4-D did
not control skeleton - weed
effectively. These weedicides are
safer than ester 2,4-D for con-
trolling wild-mustard and wild-
turnip in cereal crops.
The effect of sulphate-of-
ammonia on skeleton-weed opens
up the possibility of a connection
between the effect of the nitrogen
in this fertiliser, and the nitrogen
in lucerne-soil, where the weed
is also kept under. Lucerne
controls skeleton-weed well in
the Riverina.
Crosscuts
“0.W.W.”: The seventh Inter-
national Grassland Congress will
open at Massey College, Palmer-
ston North (N.Z.), on November
7. About 41 countries and terri-
tories will be represented.
Largest delegations will come
from Australia, U.K. and U.S.A.
First I.G.C. was held in Ger-
many in 1927 ; the last in the
United States in 1952.
* * *
A New South Wales stock-
regulation requires all plants and
planting material sent from
Queensland to or through
N. to be free of all soil and
to be dipped in an approved
insecticide —a precaution against
cattle-tick. Dr. S. A. Trout,
Queensland Director of Horti-
culture, reminds nurserymen, in
particular, of this regulation:
all such material going by post,
road, rail, sea or air must be
treated under the supervision of
an officer of the Queensland
Department of Agriculture and
Stock, who will issue a certificate.
* * *
“Big Billy”: According to
agricultural experts, S.A.’s
wheat-harvest would be
increased by more than half-a-
million bushels if new and
recommended wheats were more
widely grown. As it is about
100 varieties are now favored,
many of them nondescript types
which give lower yields and pro-
duce flour of poor baking-
quality. Only seven varieties are
being recommended by the
Department of Agriculture for
next season. They are: Dirk
48, Sabre, Claymore, Gabo,
Javelin 48, Scimitar, and
Wongoody. High-yielding
Insignia, Bencubbin 48, and
Pinnacle, missed-out because of
poor baking-quality.
* * *
“Billjim”: With the possible
exception of metabisulphite, no
additives are needed to hasten
the fermentation of silage in this
country. Not a great deal is
known about the action of
sodium-metabisulphite, but it is
likely to be beneficial where
silage is made from high-protein
material such as lucerne or
pastures containing a high per-
centage of clovers, or is made
early in the season from sappy
matter. It is also of advantage
where harvesting-equipment does
not permit material to be wilted
prior to ensiling.
9 # *
1.C.1. reports that lambs up to
10 weeks showing signs of photo-
sensitisation (sunburn) should
not be drenched with pheno-
thiazine, if they are on lush
pasture. Chlorophyll in green-
grass is the cause of the trouble.
Carbon-tetrachloride shouldn’t
be used either, under these con-
ditions. Safest drench for sun-
burnt sheep (although, under
normal circumstances, far less
efficient than phenothiazine) is
bluestone-nicotine-sulphate.
* * m
F. E. A. Cameron, president of
the N.S.W. Border Leicester
Association, is concerned about
inferior types of fat-lamb
mothers being offered to Vic-
torian and southern Riverina
buyers as Border Leicester-
Merino ewes.
¥ * *
R.A.S. report that a big South
American rancher, J. D. Nelson
of Buenos Aires, has written to
the society asking for informa-
tion about Australian grass. He
mentioned the King Ranch
pastures, in Texas, had been
“greatly improved” by new
grasses, including green panic
and a strain of buffel, from
Australia.
¥ * *
Santa Gertrudis breeders, who
made a flying tour of U.S.
ranches earlier this year, plan to
go again in May next year.
* * *
Agronomist Jim Jessup, of
Leeton (N.S.W.), thinks there’s
room for more siimmer-crops in
the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area: “Unless this is followed
up there will be a lot of waste
irrigation-water in the summer.”
Sunflowers could be grown, but
the last crop grown on the
M.I.A. went for birdseed —find-
ing a market was the main
worry. Jessup points out that
there is a local demand for
cotton. A Leeton man has grown
the American variety, Acala, and
a bale sent to the Cotton Market-
ing Board brought 14d. a pound
and took first prize at the
Brisbane Show.
* * *
“Evidence has been accumulat-
ing for a number of years that
sulphur-deficiencies exist in
many N.S.W. soils, especially in
the north and north-west, and
that responses to superphosphate
have been due in many cases
almost entirely to the sulphur-
content of the fertiliser. In one
trial conducted by C.5.1.R.0. at
Armidale on a basalt soil, sub.-
clover did not respond to either
phosphorus or nitrogen, but the
application of sulphates gave a
200 per cent, increase in yield
six weeks later” (B.X. Rothwell,
N.S.W. Soil Conservation
Service).
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered— in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(21/10/'56)
The recent heavy rains in Victoria have been ample
substantiation of the estimates, and, in ,consequence, further
rains above average should occur in that State during
November, with the main rains occurring in the first half of
the month.
Reasonably good rain should occur in Queensland
during November, although rain may be only moderate on
the central coast and patchy in the Maranoa and Warrego.
N.S.W. should get moderately good rain during
November, above normal in the far west and portion of
the Riverina, with some heavier falls on a section of the
North Coast.
General rains, above average, should continue in S.A.
during November, with heavy falls in the interior and
Central Australia.
Little relief may occur in the drought-areas of W.A.
until February. The Kimberleys, De Grey, East Gascoyne,
and part of the s.-w. central north, may receive good falls
in November; patchy elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


had to do was sit on the step
and watch and wait for Grand-
father. He had to pass this way
on his walk home.
The door appeared . to have
jammed. I leaned against it,
then bumped it severely with
my behind. This was painful to
me and of no consequence to
the door. I took the grimy knob
in my hand and rattled it in a
fury and it separated itself from
the lock and fell to the floor.
So I had the letter, and all I
had to do was wait for Grand-
father. If I could not get out the
door, I could not even see Grand-
father. It was quite possible
that I would have to sit there
all night and Grandfather would
never get the letter and Mother
and Father would think I was
dead.
It consoled me a little to think
of this, and I forgot to cry.
Already I could see the white
faces of my family, hear the
hushed voices and the remorseful
tears of the sister who had burst
my red balloon. It was a strongly
comforting picture, and in some
paradoxical way restored my
commonsense.
I began to call out, loudly and
at regular intervals. Even to
myself, alone in the closed room,
my calling seemed rather thin
and puny. As each cry seemed
to become less resonant, I
doubted very much if it would
ever be heard above the noise
of the mine.
My eyes filled with tears of
6elf-pity. There was no doubt I
would have to wait until morn-
ing, alone in the office with the
cobwebs, Robbie Burns and the
cornet.
THE cornlt . . . The cornet
made a good noise, especially
on (he high notes.
It seemed rather heavy when
I picked it up, so I sat in the
chair and balanced it on the
edge of the table.
The first real sound, when I
managed it, startled me, myself.
Heady with success, 1 tried it
again. It was better, far better,
but had no resemblance what-
ever to the fine sounds Grand-
father wrested from it. I
managed another note, a very
satisfactory one with a long,
wailing tail to it.
I was not to know then that
beyond the door, half-a-dozen
people had stopped abruptly in.
their efficient and legitimate
business. I was not to know that
Grandfather had paused with
one foot on the log bridge across
the swamp, walking-stick frozen
in mid-air. Nor could I know
that Paddy O’Shea, the screen
foreman, was lurking behind a
wagon, crossing himself; nor
that Thomas, the old watchman
who had just come on duty, was
repeating “Glory be to good-
ness!” over and over again.
My father, a more practical
man, who dealt in facts rather
than leprechauns, had traced the
sound and begun a loping run
towards the office. His intention,
very naturally and creditably,
was to reach the office before his
father-in-law, and save the life
of the practical-joker.
I was not to know any of these
things for some minutes, for I
had become drunk and dizzy
with my successful use of th'e
hitherto magical instrument. It
even occurred to me that with a
little practice I would possibly
become as proficient in the use
of it as my grandfather, and that
perhaps he would be disposed to
intersperse the lessons with those
of Robbie Burns. I had forgotten
why I was playing it, until I
heard the frantic pulling and
wrenching at the door and saw
my father stumbling in, the stick
and Grandfather a few paces
behind.
“Bless my soul,” said Father,
taking-in the situation at a
second glance and mopping at the
tears and spittle on my face with
a lump of cotton-waste.
“I was locked-in,” I said
hesitantly.
And, as no one seemed to have
anything to say, I gave the letter
to Grandfather.
because the audience could not
hear the programme.
The organiser’s turn again.
“Well, Ben, old man, that’s
what I call a good meeting for
the Crossed Keys.”
His idea of a bad one would
probably include a trip to the
hospital in the ambulance.
❖ ❖ ❖
TONIGHT', gentlemen, we
deliver the How to Vote
cards into every letterbox. The
area has been divided into sec-
tions, and several cars will
operate. When you finish your
section, please return to these
rooms, where some ladies will
have supper ready for you, and
I have arranged for a few
cartons of beer to be here,
already cooled-off. Ben himself
has to speak first at the Ten
Mile Hotel, but as soon as that’s
over he can join us and help.
“In the meantime, as his car
will be here, because he will go
to the meeting in the truck, I
suggest that Mrs. Bow—oh, I
beg pardon, I mean Mae—should
drive the car and go on with the
distribution with two of her
children.”
He doesn’t know how Mae —
or Mum as she used to be before
her husband nominated for
Parliament —drives a car. With
the hand-brake half-on, in a
series of kangaroo-hops.
This time she had to go dead-
slow down the middle of the
road, at night, and use the
starter about every 200 yards.
Next day I had to buy a new
battery.
And nothing can compensate
me for the fact that when the
campaign started my wife was
a member of the Church Guild
but at its finish had become a
swearing chain-smoker.
I got back from the meeting
to learn that the three Bs of
politics are bull-terriers, barbed-
wire and bullants, all of which
livened-up the distribution of
How to Vote cards by night in
unaccustomed neighborhoods.
But every letterbox got a card,
and someone nearly got a charge
of shot from an old gentleman
in his pyjamas.
♦j+ *> ❖
Tomorrow, ladies and
gentlemen, will be elec-
tion-day. Tonight at ten-o’clock
the truck will come back from
Ben’s last meeting. It will pick
up the stalls and tarpaulins. It
will also take care of the tables
and chairs. These will be
delivered at polling-points by
half-past-tive. in the morning. The
far end of the electorate will be
taken care of from Gullystand.
Mr. Dunkold has it well in
hand . .
Just as well —it’s 200 miles
long!
“The delivery of the stalls will
be finished, and I suggest that
you all go home and rest,
because it is absolutely vital
that you be at the booths again
by a quarter-to-eight. The poll
commences at eight, and your
scrutineers’ authorities must be
presented to the presiding
officers before then.
“Also, remember to examine
the inside of the boxes care-
fully. You can never take any-
thing on trust in a Queensland
State election. As it is not
unlikely that the presiding-
officer may be hostile to us, you
must be prepared to challenge
any vote at all.
“Each of you has a piece of
black sealingwax, and you are
entitled to seal the boxes your-
self with your own personal
seals. Make a bird of every-
thing. Signed authorities from
Ben will be available at every
booth, and I must again impress
on you the importance of never
letting anyone get inside with-
out a How to Vote card in his
hand.
“Make sure that the scrutin-
eers who will witness the count-
ing are inside before the poll
closes. They will not be
allowed in later. We will
rendezvous here after all is over.
Ben and Mae will drive their
car round the electorate all
day encouraging their sup-
porters” . . .
About mid-afternoon Mae
said to me: “You know we’re
going to be beaten, don’t you? ’
“How . . . ?”
“Because we’re gaining in the
garbage-tins. You’re leading by
three to one in the rubbish-
buckets. That means you’re
losing in the ballot-boxes.”
♦♦♦ ❖
I MET Joe Dumm later. It
was the day after the election-,
and I was at the aerodrome.
After suffering defeat, young
Tallants had called on me, and
I was seeing him back to Bris-
bane to resume his interrupted
law-course.
Waiting for the same plane to
take him back to the city sights
was Joe Dumm. His three-
yearly visit to his electorate was
over, and he was on his way
home. A victor.
Second Thursday
By LOUELL A GALE
TO Mrs. Daisy Webster it
seemed that the large
hand of the post-office
clock had an invisible
weight tied to it, holding it back
from the 12. She had already
looked in. the door three times,
and each time the long black
pointer had only told of the
passing of a couple of minutes,
yet to her it seemed more like
ten.
She let the door close quietly
and limped around to the
sheltered side of the building,
taking her stiff joints out of
reach of the probing icy fingers
of the June wind.
Charlie Jones was propped up
against the wall, his woollen
scarf, as usual, dragged tight
across his chest under his
threadbare woollen jacket, and
his hat pulled down low on his
ears. He was blowing on his
scarred and toughened hands,
the knobbly knuckles showing
white under the brown-spotted
skin of old age.
Daisy grinned and settled her
bulky form against the wall
beside him, pushing his crutch
upright as it slipped towards
her.
“Snooty Sarah’s got ’er best
scowl on again,” she croaked
cheerfully; then shivered despite
her many layers of multicolored
garments. “Wouldn’t do the old
witch no harm to let us wait
inside out of the wind. Me
rheumatism’s something cruel
today. It’s nearly ten, though,
Only another five minutes.”
Charlie frowned, and rubbed
his aching hands together. The
dry skin whispered like old
leaves touching in the wind.
“Old bitch, you mean,” he
growled. “That’s what she is.
Do her good to stand out here
in the cold like she makes us.”
They were joined by several
more old ones as he spoke, but
there were no queries as to the
subject of his complaint. They
all knew too well the impatience
of the senior female clerk who
“didn’t believe in. pensions.”
Her refusal to start paying
before ten-o’clock so she would
have time to get ready infuriated
them all, and she had become
a focal-point for all their
grumbling on pension-day.
But Daisy Webster’s sharp eye
had spotted something unusual,
and Sarah Brown’s shortcom-
ings could wait.
“Say, that’s a new coat, ain’t
it, Aggie? My, it does look
nice!”
A/lISS AGNES BOLT’S prim
face flushed and her blue-
tinged lips trembled with the
excitement of being noticed,
“Yes ... yes ... it is nice, isn’t
it?” she quavered, for the
moment too happy to feel her
usual resentment of that dread-
ful Mrs. Webster’s uninvited
familiarity. “My sister Millicent
gave it to me, and she’d only
had it for three years, too.” She
smoothed the warm cloth of
the too-large garment with a
shaky but loving hand, not even
noticing how ‘her work-
roughened skin caught on the
wool.
“It is nice,” Mrs. Townley
said in her soft, querulous voice.
“Look, Alfred,” tugging at her
husband’s sleeve, “look at Miss
Bolt’s nice warm coat.”
The bent, white-haired man
beside her smiled sadly at the
hint of envy in his wife’s tone
and nodded. “You are indeed
fortunate,” he said pompously.
“One needs a warm coat this
weather. Now, when I. had my
own business I remember I
bought”
He was interrupted by an
exclamation from Daisy
Webster. The old woman
chuckled, her bright, beady eyes
glinting maliciously. “There’s
Ethel Potter going in the
grocer’s,” she said. - “Bet she
don’t buy nothing, she’s just
hiding from-us. Thinks nobody
Knows she gets the pension, and
won’t come in the post-office if
there’s anyone else there.” Her
voice roughened with scorn.
“Me, I ain’t got such silly ideas.
I’ve worked hard all me life
and paid me tax and now I’m
Only gettirt’ what I’m entitled
to!”
“Ah, yes, it’s foolish to be
sensitive about such things,” a
thin, precise voice chipped in.
turned and beamed on
a small perky little man
whose thin face was compara-
tively unlined and whose dark
hair was hardly touched with
grey. He might have passed for
50, but his clothing betrayed
him. The celluloid collar and
cuffs and the pleated cotton
dicky were all yellowed with
age and proclaimed his genera-
tion.
“Hello, there, Mr. Laycock,”
Daisy said respectfully. Mainly
because of his consistent absten-
tion from the usual pension-day
gossip she considered William
Laycock to be “a real superior
gentleman.” For him to address
a remark to * her gave her
immense satisfaction and
aroused the curiosity of the
others. They lapsed into silence
and listened to the exchange.
“How are you today? You
ain’t got your stick, I see.”
The small man smiled thinly.
“I’m feeling much better, thank
you kindly, Mrs. Webster. But
this waiting around in the cold
won’t do me any good. I really
do think that woman should be
reported for her officiousness in
not paying us earlier ; or at least
she should be made to let us
wait inside out of the cold.”
This statement, aired regularly
each fortnight by one or other
of them, brought an immediate
vocal response—a heated spate
of indignation and bitterness,
and avowals of determination to
do something about it. But it
had never gone further than
words, and it was unlikely it
ever would.
Mr. Laycock had shivered and
turned away as soon as he had
finished speaking, his momentary
rapport with them already
broken. He was not conscious
of the clamor around him—he
could think only of the hot soup
he would have as soon as he
could buy the cubes. That was
the worst part of pension-day;
he always vowed he would not
get there until at least a quarter-
past-ten, show them he still had
a little dignity, but somehow he
never had any money left to
provide breakfast on that morn-
mg, and he simply couldn’t wait
a minute longer than he had to.
Out of the corner of his eye
he saw old Mrs. Potter come
out of the shop, glance
quickly towards the post-office
and scuttle into the butcher’s
next door. His tongue flickered
around his lips as he tried to
decide whether he’d buy half-a-
pound of sausages or have a
treat today and get a nice piece
of tender steak. He knew, of
course, it would have to be the
sausages, but it was nice to think
about the steak.
The demands of his empty
stomach were too insistent for
him to think of anything but
satisfying them, and he was
startled when Daisy Webster
spoke to him again, her mouth
close to his ear.
“Have you got the time, Mr.
Laycock? Is it ten-o’clock yet?”
He glanced around vaguely,
suddenly becoming aware of the
discordant murmur of the
creaking, worn-out voices ; then
fumbled in his vest-pocket for
his watch, his last link with a
dignified and independent past.
But before he could answer
her question the loud boom of
the Town Hall clock sounded in
the distance.
THE buzz of conversation
stopped as if a door had
closed on it. Old heads lifted,
faded eyes narrowed, and, as
remote as complete strangers,
they slowly shuffled forward in
a wavering line, through the
door and up to the counter. The
social niceties of pension-day
were over. Now each was a
separate entity, engrossed wholly
in the latest plan to make the
money stretch a little further;
and, who knows, a miracle could
happen! For once there might
even be a little over, instead of
always not quite enough.
LATE SPRING
The moon drained white by day
lifts from the hill
where the old pear-tree fallen in
storm
springs up in blossom still.
Women believe in the moon :
this branch l hold
is not more white and still than
she
whose flower is ages old,
and so l carry home
flowers from the pear
that makes such obstinate tokens
still
for fruit it cannot bear.
Q-
JUDITH WRIGHT.


A new novel to repeat the fabulous success of
Moulin Rouge
Pierre la Mure’s
Beyond Desire
The most romantic story of all time. Based on the life and loves of Felix
Mendelssohn, and set in the glittering artistic world of nineteenth-century
Europe. 18s. 9d.
COLLINS
CROWDED GALLERIES
DAME MABEL BROOKES
In collaboration with Sir Norman Brookes
An autobiography containing anecdotes of famous people and chapters by
Sir Norman Brookes, who reviews tennis stars and great matches.
At all booksellers - - 30/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
ENTERTAINING READING
THE SEARCH FOR BRIDEY
MURPHY
by Morey Bernstein.
This strange and fascinating account of an
American woman who, under hypnosis, recalled
“another life” in 19th - century Ireland, has
aroused controversy throughout the world. “The
book makes interesting reading, all the more
so because Bernstein has an eye for the
dramatic.” (NEW YORK TIMES.)
18/9 (post 1/-)
ZOO QUEST TO GUIANA
by David Attenborough,
who tells of the experiences of himself and
three companions on their 8.8. C. -London Zoo
expedition to British Guiana, where they went
to film in the wild and bring back alive “some
of the strangest, some of the loveliest, and some
of the most horrifying animals in the world.”
More than 50 photographs.
27/- (post 1/2)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-9 S Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
a fortnight’s engagement, but in a lul
on New Year’s Eve, being requested
“Play something—quick!” he brough
down the house with Chopin’s “Butter
fly” study, and Arthur Towle, th
Midland Hotel’s managing-director
told the head-waiter that Mr. Hall musi
be kept on. Early in 1923 young Mr
Hall was made leader of the band
Early in 1924, when the various L.M.S
hotels amalgamated, Towle was made
controller, and told Mr. Hall to arrange
music for the company’s new luxury
hotel in Perthshire, the Gleneagles.
You might think all this a wonderfu
run of luck for a 26-year-old, but there
was more to Henry Hall than luck. He
knew Dan Godfrey, Jnr., the 8.8.C.’s
Manchester music-director, who intro
duced him to Herbert Carruthers, the
8.8. C. head at Glasgow; and the
8.8. C., which until then had not usee
any outside dance-bands except the
London Savoy Orpheans and Savoy
Havanas, was prevailed upon to broad-
cast the opening night of the new
Gleneagles band; a great success: —
It meant that the L.M.S. Directors
would be behind any further efforts
I made to put not only Gleaneagles
but Henry Hall on the air.
Recording contracts followed, and
by 1931 Mr. Hall had 32 L.M.S. hotel-
bands under his control, and buzzed
about England like a bee visiting
flowers, from Manchester to Liverpool,
Birmingham, Leeds, Glasgow, Edin-
burgh, Dornoch, Ayr, dealing with
such matters as stem protests against
the playing of Gilbert and Sullivan on
the Sabbath at Gleneagles from none
less than Sir John Simon, Chancellor
of the Exchequer:—
Towle, knowing, I suppose, the
general feeling was for Gilbert and
Sullivan, told me to remember that
I had not mentioned it to him !
In January, 1932, Hall was asked to
Savoy Hill, told that Jack Payne, who
had contracted his band to the 8.8. C.,
was leaving, and was asked to form the
first official 8.8. C. dance-band. He
resigned his hotel-bands, and on March
15 opened on the 8.8. C. The suave
public manner of the English entertain-
ment industry obliterates the tooth-
gnashing of famous London band-
leaders over the rise of this provincial
musician, as it does of the happenings
that led, exactly five years later, to
Henry Hall’s resignation. Eric Masch-
witz had begun to put on “an increas-
ing number of star-bands” —Ambrose,
Sid Bright, Billy Cotton, Roy Fox,
Geraldo, Carroll Gibbons, Nat Gonella,
Brian Lawrence, Sydney Lipton, Joe
Loss, Felix Mendelssohn, Jack Payne,
Oscar Rabin, Harry Roy, Lew Stone,
Maurice Winnicke:—
Perhaps it is understandable that I
reflected on this list with some
uneasiness . . .
Moreover, they were shifting his own
broadcasting-times about, and “regu-
larity is the keynote in establishing a
radio feature.” So Henry Hall went
out into the cold—to enormous success
with a band touring the halls; and,
incidentally, the 8.8. C. gave him for
nothing the entire dance-music library
he had built up there, “five thousand
orchestrations which had cost approxi-
mately eight guineas each.” As to the
value of arrangers, his 8.8. C. orchestra
had ten “principal arrangers” —there
were as many as nine programmes a
week.
His story of his time on the air is
full of changing band-combinations
and techniques, of people he met
during his trips to America, and
personalities who appeared in his
“guest - nights”; gatherings which
brought together Tauber and the Mills
Brothers, or, on one programme,
Ronald Frankau, Doris Hare, Leslie
Sarony and Layton and Johnston. At
an audition in these years he turned-
down Vera Lynn ... He was filmed
and televised.
His broadcast “guest-night” was
revived during the war, and he went on
to a second Command Performance
(1948), a tour of South Africa and a
television-show, “Face the Music.”
The rest is music, except the story
of the dance-band trumpeter, Frankie
Wilson,
then regarded as one of the greatest
trumpet soloists and a gay, likeable
Lancashire lad. [He] came to me
and refused to play on a Sunday.
It was wrong, from his point of view,
to play dance-music on the Sabbath.
It was to have been a rehearsal for
the Command Performance of 1934, on
the following Tuesday, but; —
No amount of persuasion from
me could make him change his mind
—Royal Command or- not, he
wouldn’t p1ay...... Frankie Wilson,
some time later, gave up his job at
the 8.8. C., worth £l5OO a year,
plus recording fees, etc., to follow
a Christian life . . .
Now you’ve heard everything.
"Landfall"
Nicely printed by the Caxton Press,
Christchurch, and supported, like its
counterparts in Australia, by Govern-
ment finance, the New Zealand
quarterly “Landfall” has lately taken
an increased interest in Australian
literature and is interesting to read
here for its detached and intelligent
opinions.
It goes in for the cool, dispassionate,
scholarly type of review, with a tone
rather like that of the “Times Literary
Supplement” and, with its emphasis on
current literature, resembles a blending
of the best elements of “Southerly” and
“Meanjin.” Australian books reviewed
in the current issue—Harold Stewart’s
Chinese poems should have been favor-
ably mentioned—are A. D. Hope’s
“The Wandering Islands,” Judith
Wright’s “The Two Fires,” Harold
Stewart’s “Orpheus” and Vance
Palmer’s “The Legend of the ’Nineties.”
New Zealand reviews include a
notice of the Oxford Anthology of New
Zealand Verse (of which no review-
copy has yet reached “The Bulletin”)
mentioning the incredible exclusion of
Arnold Wall but otherwise rather too
generalised. James K. Baxter con-
tributes a verse-play for radio much
influenced by Dylan Thomas, and
there are articles on “Views of China”
and “The Culture Industry.”
Reviewed Briefly
Seven Centuries of Popular Song:
Reginald Nettel (Phoenix). Treads the
well-worn path from “Sumer is
icumen in,” with examples of English
popular songs up to the present day
and a commentary on theatrical and
social conditions, as, for instance, the
battle between English and Italian
singers at the time “The Beggars’
Opera” was produced, the circum-
stances that popularised the “Lilli-
bullero,” the kind of gathering that
used to sing lewd catches, etc. No
music, but a dozen plates, ranging from
the script of the Agincourt carol to
the Luton Girls’ Choir.
* * * *
Dutch: Theodore Bonnet (W. H.
Allen). In his second novel the author
of the best-selling “The Mudlark” has
again produced a story rich in human
interest and with an individual charac-
ter. The main stream of the plot
concerns the discovery of a genuine
Rembrandt in the bar of a dingy little
pub in a small industrial town near San
Francisco. Into this flow all the little
life-stories of those connected with the
Rembrandt, while world-events and the
atmosphere of San Francisco and the
town form a vivid and lively back-
ground. Ironic wit is allied to close
and sympathetic observation. This, too,
should be a best-seller.
The Hound of Earth: Vance Bour-
jaily (Seeker and Warburg). That no
man can escape the hound of earth,
his own humanity, is the “message”
of this novel. Allard Pennington, a
scientist, who tries to live alone with
his feelings of guilt about having
worked on the atom-bomb, finds him-
self hounded and trapped by his love,
compassion and responsibility to those
around him. The scene is set in the
toy-department of a New York store
during the two weeks before Christ-
mas. Every character is drawn with
force and reality, though the emphasis
is more on the frustrations of human
beings than on their achievements, and
the picture of twisted personalities is,
in the last event, rather repulsive.
# * # *
Bedrooms Have Windows: A. A.
Fair (Heinemann). This is Erie Stanley
Gardner when he writes, not so well
as about Perry Mason, about Donald
Lam, the legman for the old harridan
owner of a detective agency, Bertha
Cool. But Mr. Lam is improving.
This time, he succors a girl who has
been thrown out of a cocktail-lounge
for not having an escort, and gradually
he is drawn into a complicated mess
in which a husband and a wife are
found together shot dead in a motel;
the wrong husband and the wrong
wife. The end is a little forced for
Gardner, but the book sustains his
reputation as the clearest weaver of
complicated plots in the business.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 406
Across
I—A god and a painter combined in
the persons of Foch, Mont-
gomery, Ney and such. (8)
4—Spatter Aubrey going to bed. (6)
9—Communist bloke under shelter.
(7)
11— Torments continually the last half
of 1-across. (7)
12— Role snare is back. (4)
13 — The streaky hide on this which
makes a lower wincer bold when
confused? (7, 3)
16 — Always a little boy is turned
inside out. (7)
17 — Fancy! It’s just about interrupt-
ing one mother and confusing a
madte. (5)
18— South mallet who can malinger?
, (7)
19— The disconsolate batsman walk-
ing to the pavilion has this
prospect. (7)
20 — Area of Australia requiring two
kinds of kitchenware, one for
cooking, the other for mixing.
(5, 5)
22—Employer is sure to change. (4)
24—Celebrated feed off the floor, in
this circumstance. (7)
26 —Doubled diamond swallowed by
Jolson. (7)
28 — Rough carpeted. (6)
29 Babble like a brook that is next to
us environs. (8)
Down
1— American sailor places one in
1100. (3)
2 The Queen as a cleric to scold
and echo. (11)
3 Quadruped aspiration associated
with gallery contents. (4)
5 Nelson term is enough for the
listings of names. (10)
6 Fifty in the first-class Moslem.
(3)
7 Who can be expected to beat the
country bumpkin in a car run
by a little hot-water chopper.
(4-7)
8— Where a beard may grow within
an inch. (4)
10 —Scoffer who pushes the jockeys
off the horses. (7)
12 —Section run by a literary editor
who scoffs at verse? (5, 6)
14 — House seen to change nous. (11)
15— One fur-bearer and one fur can
be sprayed. (10)
17—Sentencing Do-Nothing Menzies?
(7)
21—Help business with a bookie. (4)
23 —Fruit upset a boy. (4)
25—Label. (3)
27 —Sun is rising according to the
Spanish. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 405


? *
t' j. i ~ : \\
fa"** "•’•■
||!ll®i II
AM r l’;
■* d ' / ,I'*
’■•.if ’1 -i \* ‘. ! * .' •
- Mm ! 1 r *
\V* A'' ’■ »'■
' }‘ !
M , .. ■ *
••■•' A •:>. i-
jy:.-;-l;
Vi •• ! ; -I''
VJ
i:S:H
:.^?T
■■'V
'
fe.HS&’.j
. ...
i :*• -
L#s-
. Vf 7
¥»*r&j
■I I, &J
•j •
iliill
wn
mm*
V-’VV'i;:
J ’ V % -V ; j '
SBIS
fg||t||
. I ;
IBllllpl
n iss r ~%i
i m m
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON*
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA6IBB (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: 86565, 84448
