

m
jt>
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
RUSSIA AND MELBOURNE OLYMPICS PAGE 28
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 77— No. 3971
Wednesday, March 21, 1956
Price 9d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper
No. 290: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
BRAMALL HALL, ONE OF ENGLAND'S ANCIENT MANSIONS
CHESHIRE is a county which, like Herefordshire, is noted for its many
picturesque black-and-white half-timbered houses and buildings. It is
a county, also, which has had a long history of warfare for it was contested
by the Ancient Britons, the Romans, the English of Northumbria and of
Wessex, the Danes, the forces of Alfred and of Canute. Its subjugation by
William the Conqueror did not bring it peace for it was still exposed to the
raids by the Welsh whose boundary it shares. It figured in the Wars of the
Roses and was crossed by the Highland invaders who carried the flag of
Bonnie Prince Charlie southward in the Jacobite Rebellion of 1745.
Cromwell’s men were active in this county during the 17th century
when they ' searched many of the great mansions for arms. One of those
which engaged their attention in 1643 was Bramall Hall, a beautiful half-
timbered mansion situated about two miles south of Stockport. Soldiers
surrounded the house while others rounded up the horses in the park and
drove them away. The owner of the house at that time complained, ‘‘they
searched my house for arms again and took my fowling piece, and drum,
with divers other things. Next day, after they were gone, came Prince Rupert
—his army, by whom I lost better than a hundred pounds in linen and other
goods, besides the rifling and pulling to pieces of my house.”
Bramall was originally owned by the Bromeales but early in the 15th
century it passed by marriage to the Davenport family in whose "possession
it remained for five hundred years. They altered the house in the 16th and
18th centuries; the great hall which was at one time open to the roof now
has an Elizabethan drawing-room over it. Most of the fine half-timbered
exterior was rebuilt between the years 1590 and 1600. The interior is no
less beautiful and visitors can see fine examples of timber and plaster-work
in the spacious rooms which now serve as a museum, owned by the Hazel
Grove and Bramall Urban District Council. On display in what is called
the Paradise Room is a 17th century tapestry, representng the Fall of Man,
which occupied more than thirty years of Dorothy Davenport’s life before
the tapestry was completed.


If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express jour thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S can 'train you to write Short
Stories, Articles,. Written Sketches, Radio
Talks, Pars, Verse, etc,, that will SELL,
Read these extracts from Stott-Students
letters
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lOO/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount I shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“1 had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
—— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
my name
ADDRESS
(S.B. 656) AGE
IiOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text boon,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only u suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
THE YOUNG SAM JOHNSON
by NORMAN LINDSAY
Because of Boswell, Johnson has be-
come the most dominating literary
figure of his generation. But for
Boswell, he would have faded-out as
the compiler of a dictionary who wrote
only one poem which has endured to
the present day, and that only for such
readers of poetry who can take pleasure
in the ponderous mechanism of the
heroic-couplet on a theme of misan-
thropic nihilism. By Boswell’s art, he
is presented to us as a mind unques-
tionably great—and yet his works are
palpably those of a scholarly medioc-
rity. It is this anomaly between John-
son’s talk and his writings which makes
him such a fascinating figure, so that
any work which augments our under-
standing of him becomes of first impor-
tance to all Johnsonian addicts.
Boswell skated rather hurriedly over
Johnson’s early life, anxious to get on
with the rich material of his personal
contact with him. in any case, he had
not access to the contemporary letters,
diaries, parish records and written
tradition which are at the disposal of
present-day research. An authoritative
documentation of his early years was
necessary to complete the full-length
portrait of Johnson, and this has been
done admirably by James L. Clifford
in his Young Samuel Johnson (Heine-
mann).
This is a biography in the best
manner, written in a clear, lucid,
unaffected style, and with that rarest of
all attributes in a biographer, modesty.
Clifford does not take charge of his
subject with an air of tolerant superi-
ority, which assumes an inspired
knowledge of his private life, his
motives of action. Since the blight of
Freudianism, it seems extremely diffi-
cult for a biographer to escape this
smug, complacent posture of intellec-
tual omnipotence, which is irritating
enough even from a brilliant prose-
writer like Lytton Strachey, but utterly
intolerable from the lesser writers who
lay their hands, as one did recently, on
such majestic figures as Browning.
Clifford indulges no sapient judi-
cations on debatable matters of conduct
or morals, but documents carefully all
evidence relating to them and leaves
opinion at a nice balance of probabili-
ties on both sides of the question. He
has an immense respect for Johnson,
but he rejects that idolatry which is
just as biographically objectionable as
Freudian debunking of all dignity in
its subject.
In the case of Johnson’s marriage
Boswell leaves the London years a
blank, accepting Johnson’s sentimental
references to his Tetty as evidence that
it was a happy one, but Clifford’s re-
searches reveal that it was extremely
disrupted, as was inevitable between a
man in his early twenties who marries
a woman in her late forties. They lived
in poor lodgings on an insufficient in-
come. As a Grub-street journalist,
Johnson spent most of his time in town,
mocking-about with Savage and other
penurious scribblers, while Tetty took
to drink and drugs, and finally banished
Johnson from her bed ; no doubt, at
her age, finding his amatory ardors in-
tolerable, and putting Johnson to con-
siderable ill-ease on that score. She
had wit, and one recorded remark of
hers to Johnson gives a very illuminat-
ing key to the tone in which they
squabbled. As he was about to say
grace, she stopped him with: —
“Do not make a farce of thanking
God for a dinner which you will pre-
sently protest not eatable.”
Another deficiency in Boswell’s
“Life” is the lack of a clear picture of
Johnson’s youth at home and the per-
sonalities of his parents, of whom Clif-
ford gives excellent character-studies.
Nor is Johnson’s mysterious brother
Nat overlooked. Boswell barely men-
tions him and Johnson hardly ever re-
ferred to him. Clifford’s researches
reveal why: Nat was a boozer and a
noisy talkerin taverns, and the couple
of letters from him extant are evidence
that he was not gifted with “literature”
—“Sir, has he literature?” was a ques-
tion asked of any aspirant for Johnson’s
patronage. Moreover, it seems clear
that Nat embezzled money due to his
mother ; for which he was ejected, or
fled from, the home. But as he died at
the age of 24, he conveniently removed
himself as a possible nuisance to John-
son’s later years.
Again, Clifford devotes careful
studies to the personalities intimate with
Johnson in his youth, and their re-
sponse to him is extremely enlightening
as to Johnson’s intellectual attainments
even in his ’teens. That two such dis-
tinguished and mature intellectuals as
Gilbert Walmesley and Cornelius Ford
should have accepted the uncouth,
gangling, socially-inept youth on terms
of mental equality is a sufficient evi-
dence of his strong and dominant per-
sonality even at that date. And for all
his ill-dressed, shambling figure, his
odd mannerisms of facial contortions
and spasmodic gestures, he was just as
effective with the ladies of Walmesley’s
exclusive social circle. All his life
Johnson was able to command that
immediate deference even from
strangers. No one could be for a short
time in his company without saying to
himself, “This is a remarkable man.”
There is another essential content in
Clifford’s biography which Boswell’s
must have inevitably lacked, and that
is the sociological conditions which
make the background of the period.
Boswell, living in them, accepted them
as understood by his readers, but Clif-
ford builds them up vividly. His avidity
of research into any trifle relevant
to the Johnsonian stage-setting is amaz-
ing. He knows the period as intimately
as if he had lived in it, which he has
done mentally for years, as his other
works on Mrs. Thrale, Dr. Campbell,
Pope and his contemporaries, attest.
Any triviality about Johnson that
can be documented is carefully investi-
gated. When at Oxford, Johnson once
absented himself from lectures for four
days. On his tutor inquiring the
reason for this truancy, Johnson said
casually that he had been sliding in
Christ Church meadow. The date of
this sliding happens to have been re-
corded —Nov. 6th. The query then
raised is, how came ice in Christ Church
meadow so early in November?
Weather-diaries are looked-up, and are
found to record that the weather of that
date was extremely cold, with snow . . .
This is biography as it should be
written. Any clue should be folio wed-
up, for a triviality may lead to a signi-
ficance. And Clifford misses nothing.
But research on such terms requires
unlimited time and enough money to
pay expenses, and there American
scholars have the immense resources of
their universities behind them. That is
why all the best historical and bio-
graphical research is being done by the
American universities today, and why
nearly all MSS relating to the great
figures of European literature is now
bought-up and lodged in American
institutions.
It may seem remarkable that Bos-
well, on the spot and in contact with
Johnson and many of his contemp-
oraries, should have so little to tell us
of Johnson’s London period as a journ-
alist and a publisher’s-hack between his
arrival in London and the compilation
of his dictionary, which brought him
literary notoriety and a comparatively
stable income. For that period he de-
pended on casual reminiscences from
Johnson, which picked-out only a few
high-spots, and imply that Johnson
lived in a state of extreme penury the
whole time. Certainly he was hard-up,
but Clifford’s investigation makes it
clear that his penury was mainly due to
his own laziness. He lists over 60 pro-
posals for publications made by John-
son to the booksellers and publishers,
none of which he ever put a pen to.
His letters to Cave, the editor of the
“Gentleman’s Magazine,” are full of
excuses for delayed copy. And since
Johnson had written nothing notable
except his “London,” which got him
immediate recognition, his complaint
in that poem of
Slow rises worth, by poverty op-
pressed,
must be referred to the undoubted fact
that his poverty and obscurity were of
his own begetting. If he had followed-
up that first success in the key it was
written, but turning its attack from the
general to the particular on the spec-
tacle of life before him, he would have
had the notoriety and financial success
he desired. And in addition to that,
he would have brought the town about
his ears . . .
Which brings investigation to bear
on the amazing disparity between John-
son’s written and spoken words. His
spoken words are witty, epigrammatic,
incisive, and ruthlessly uncompromis-
ing. His written words are circum-
locutionary, loaded with antithetical
and qualifying clauses, and slowed-
down till all emphasis is padded out of
them. The spoken word defines the
salient content of Johnson’s mind. He
was a realist who rejected all romantic
idealisations. He was sceptic of all
esoteric assumptions that could not be
factually demonstrated. He had no
belief in human integrity and a sar-
donic contempt for all pretensions of
generous emotion. He knew that moral
precepts had no effect on human con-
duct, and that the only principle by
which mankind could be forced to face
self-knowledge and a responsibility for
its own actions was by a ruthless appli-
cation of the lash. And his destiny
had given him every qualification for
applying that lash with tremendous
effect. He had a powerful intellect,
a potent body, a pugnacious spirit, and
great physical courage.
And just turn to his writings. His
essays are sermons dealing-out the sort
of fustian on conduct and morals that
were being tub-thumped from every
pulpit. He endorsed the most bigoted
religious dogma, and he attacked as
“infidels” such enlightened minds as
Gibbon and Hume who had the courage
to try to inspire clear thinking in the
I mediaeval fog of religious ethics. It is
significant that even in talk Johnson
defended his religious bigotry with a
ferocity that could only come from a
deep-down scepticism. And when it
came to literary values, he attacked
all those writers whose works have
survived as classics, while the works
he praised have long since been de-
posited on time’s rubbish-tip. No
wonder he hated writing, when all he
did was to scribble journalism, do
hack-jobs for publishers, and squander
his erudition on compiling a dictionary
—a mere trade-job of general utility,
and no contribution to creative litera-
ture. The greatest prose and poetry
in the English language was written
without any need for a reference-book
on the etymology of words.
And all through that, up to the last
day of his life, Johnson was tormented
by the incessant attacks of bad-con-
science ; by a consciousness of guilt.
It is so preposterously out-of-key with
any rational explanation that even an
astute biographer like Clifford is
puzzled to account for it. Of course
the Freudian asses have rushed in with
their bedraggled CEdi pus-complex to
explain it as an unhealthy attachment
I to the mother and hatred for the father.
Johnson, according to their textbook
formula, had rejected “her whom he
most wished to love” and therefore
developed “a torturing sense of guilt.”
It is hardly worth commenting on such
drivel. No man had a saner outlook
on his parents than Johnson. He had
the normal boy’s affection for his
mother, but even in youth he accepted
her as a simple and rather stupid
woman, while he regarded his father
rather in a tolerant spirit of humor:
“Sir, he was a foolish old man—that is
to say, foolish in talking of his
children” . . .
Johnson’s own efforts in later life to
put a label on his consciousness of
guilt are just as absurd. He attributed
it to having been disturbed by sensual
thoughts, to his shortcomings as a hus-
band to dear Tetty, to his idleness, and
to hints of possibly having gone off
the marital rails with a stray wench or
two. It really puts one out of count-
enance to read of Johnson blithering
about his fear of eternal damnation for
such fatuous lapses in conduct and
morals. For surely the cause of his
bad-co'nscience is apparent enough . . .
Johnson was gifted with a special
faculty of mind which is expressed in
his talk. It was a faculty that the age
he arrived in badly needed to revitalise
I its stagnant outlook on life and ideas.
Voltaire had precisely the same faculty
of mind: a capacity for swift and clear
thinking on all social, moral, political
and aesthetic problems on which
thought had become obsolete by chang-
ing conditions ; a sceptical and sardoru
outlook on all false sentiment ove
human behavior; a refusal to accef
any dogma, religious or scientific, witl
out subjecting it to a ruthless inquis
tion —in short, a re-energising of tb
whole bedevilled system under whic
human life exists, the objective of whic
we label “civilisation.” If this is no
done at intervals by a powerful mine
able to stir-up moribund mental tissue
in a community to the reception of new
and vital ideas, the whole procedure of
life lapses into muddle and moral
anarchy, and allows all sorts of dema-
gogues, religious fanatics, and megalo-
maniacs to play hell with it.
Johnson, in common with Voltaire,
had that energising power of mind;
and we can see, by what Voltaire did
with it, what Johnson did not do.
“Candide” is being reprinted and read
(Continued on page 35)
THE POET AGES
The sooty bush in the park
is green as any forest
for the boy to Ije below
with his arms around his dearest;
the black of the back street
is washed clean as any cloud
when the girl and the boy
touch hands in the crowd.
Nothing’s better than love,
and to want and to hold;
it is wise in the young
to forget the common world;
to be lost in the flesh
and the light shining there;
not to listen to the old
whose tune is fear and care—
who tell them love’s a drink
poisoned with sorrow,
the flesh a flower today
that’s shrivelled by tomorrow;
it is wise in the young
to let heart go racing heart,
to believe that the earth
is young as they and sweet;
* and the word that should be sent
from age back to youth
is that every kiss and look
is truer than the truth—
that whatever we repent
of the time that we live,
it is never what we give—•
it is never that we love.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


WE DELIVER DAILY TO 325 SUBURBS WITHIN 14 MILES OF SYDNEY
■
SELECTED
AR
S
P
WmHm
mm
.
I
: ■
a
ft:'*?:-* v> > :
111
*
Ml
■
HI
m
■I
iMsiaaa
m®
llllllll||;:|
iliiiitl
Specially selected by Anthony Horderns’, these
creamiest of mock pearls can be worn with
almost anything. They are wonderful
accessories for all-year-round wear. A single
row of these lovely pearls are priced
at £2/5/-; a double row of pearls, £3/5/-;
a triple row of pearls, £4/5/-. These pearls are
attractively boxed for gift giving.
These are all available in our Jewellery Dept.,
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
tM&Ms
i&&5&
E A^'
«B<w
if JO, JO
C» ir\- i
'X
<2
»B
*&*&*s>
W
HR
.
g-ai
38
and
famous quality watches
Jewellery Repairs
In Anthony Horderns’
we have a Watch and
Jewellery Repair Ser-
vice. On the Ground
Floor, Pitt Street Level.
Down Quilts
Remade
Anthony Horderns’ will
re-make your old down
quilt to look like new.
We are quilt special-
ists, and all quilts are
re-made by quilt ex-
perts in our own fac-
tory. Only the best
quality materials are
used for the coverings.
Please write for a quot-
ation now, before the
cold weather arrives.
m
*
>
S'
KSB
is
Sfis*?
1(*
iO-
✓
asss
s«
.
Si
£
■
.--f' ■•
yi'
Gent’s “Cyma” Navy Star,
17 jewel -Swiss wrist watch.
Sweep seconds hand. Water
and dust proof. Stainless steel,
priced at £27/10/'. 9 carat
gold, ultra thin case, priced £35.
Gent’s “Cyma” reflector
17 jewel Swiss watch. Sweep
seconds hand. Water resistant
and dustproof case. Chrome with
stainless steel back, £22/10/'.
9 carat gold, priced at £3l/10/'.
Gent’s “Roamer’’ 17 jewel
Swiss wrist watch, sweep sec-
onds hand, dust-moisture proof.
Imported ceal. ChrPme steel
back, priced at £l6/10/-; and
gold filled, priced at £l9/18/-.
Gent’s “Roamer” seventeen
jewel Swiss wrist watch, sweep
seconds hand. Dustproof case,
seconds hand. Water resistant
and dustproof case. Chrome
steel back. Priced at £l2/15/'.
Box 2712, G.P.0., Sydney
FOR ALL MAIL ORDERS
A
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING
1


the Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3971
Wednesday, March 21, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
IT'S UP TO INDUSTRY
BOTH the nature and the public reception of the
Prime Minister’s current helping of measures to
curb inflation and cope with increasing overseas
trade problems illustrate the difficulties which beset
any Commonwealth Government so long as the
Constitution is inhibitive and public opinion is what
it is.
The scheme is, and must be, part of a complex
and unintegrated series of operations. Already
some of these have been launched. Last September
came limited import-restriction of which the ambit
is not to be widened. An agreement, which goes as
far as the Government dares press it but which does
not go far enough, subsists with the time-payment
interests.
It can only be an agreement, since the Com-
monwealth has no Constitutional power to curb
inflationary time-payment dealings in general. Any
approach to some of the States which could legis-
late would be met with a triumphant chuckle at
the thought that once more something had arrived
which might be used both to embarrass the Liberal-
C.P. Government at Canberra by a refusal and to
buy the support of another pressure-group with
political funds to bum.
Export-expansion is a vital feature of the
Government’s plans, and there are measures in train
to deal with that and to encourage the increase of
productivity of the land and industry in general, a
matter mentioned in broad terms by Mr. Menzies
last Wednesday, since the current Budget amend-
ments are concerned with it to some degree.
The immigration programme and the ration-
alising of capital-investment and imports to meet
the needs of the situation enter into the problem.
And so—very much so—does the wage-problem,
continuity of work and the productivity of the
working-day.
This, indeed, is the heart of the matter, since
wages, and particularly the amount of production
obtained in return for them, irrespective of the
hours worked, are a determining ingredient of
economic national success or failure. On what the
employer receives in productivity for his organisa-
tion, whether in machine- or employee-output, can
depend our ability to compete in the world at large
and to expand our exports.
It is obvious that what the Government is aim-
ing to accomplish—and what must be accomplished
—can only be achieved by a tight-knit co-opera-
tion between Commonwealth, States, industry and
commerce, employer, employee and the press in
the operation of an overall plan.
The wool industry is our staple. Wipe it out,
and there is no Australia as we know it. All classes
share in the bounty of wool, the workers among
them. Those in the industry—shearers, storemen
and packers and others—have lived on the fat of
the land, having laid down the principle which has
been accepted by arbitration courts that their wages
should rise and fall as prices rise and fall when
over a certain level. The A.W.U. has been firm and
enthusiastic about this principle while prices have
been rising. Now that it is called on to apply it in
the light of a fall it refuses, bucks the law, resorts
to illegal resistance. And this at a stage when
Australian overseas trade-balances have been
withered-away, and when the wool-cheque is being
kept up to present levels only because of the in-
creased production per sheep and acre, due to good
seasons and the elimination of the rabbit.
The A.W.U. has no intention of co-operating
to save the national economy from recession. Who-
ever suffers, it must not be the shearer. He will
strike the industry into ruin and the country with it
rather than live by the principle to which he has
stuck firmly while it operates in his favor.
The transport industries are in the same posi-
tion. While overseas trade, in particular, suffers and
trade-balances disappear, the Waterside Workers’
Federation under its Communist bosses is fighting
for higher pay, allowing the goods which are the
material of the national income and of national
prosperity to rot on the wharves, putting up costs,
inhibiting earnings. With huge deficits in railway
departments and tram- and bus-services the
employers are concerned with little but getting
their own way, in N. S. Wales collecting only such
fares as they care to collect, piling up demands for
margins, increases, overtime, privileges, fewer
hours and less work per hour. The same applies
to the civil services generally, as it does to the coal-
industry, which is suffering because of sea-carriage
difficulties and competition with oil which is begin-
ning to drive it out of many fields.
The press—the so-called “capitalist press” —
does little to condition public minds into right
thinking ; radio plays along with selfishness all the
time. The pressure-groups have an open slather.
Whenever any new steps are taken at Canberra a
host of savage sectional propagandists, including
Communist leaders, are asked to use the columns
of the great Sydney papers to ride their particular
hobby-horse and further their own selfish causes.
Mr. Menzies has increased sales-tax or excise
on motor-vehicles (steeply on pleasure-cars),
luxury goods, beer, spirits, tobacco, etc. He has
raised company-tax by a shilling in the £. The idea
is to discourage imports and to provide £ll5 million
a year to pay for State public works that are not be-
ing supported by the public in the loan-market. In-
flation should be checked by the measure.
In the financial field, bank-overdraft rates rise
from their present unreal level to an average of
per cent., and fixed-deposit rates by 1 per cent,
to help stop the drift of fixed deposits into fields
where the money can earn a much higher short-term
rate of interest.
These measures are the result of the advice of
a committee which contains not only economists
and civil servants, but bankers and businessmen of
the standing of Sir Daniel McVey.
Much that should be going into savings and
rational investment is going down Australian necks
or into exhaust-gas on the roads through burning of
petrol and depreciation of motor pleasure-vehicles.
And to the “extent to which the deficit cannot be
financed by borrowing other people’s savings from
overseas, the inevitable result is inflation, with
higher costs and prices all round.”
Tackling this facet alone, of course, will not
stabilise the whole position. As “The Bulletin”
pointed out last week, the overall problem is re-
presented by the fact that there is too much money
in the hands of people who are merely potential
spenders and in the hands of others mainly in-
volved in speculation ; that there is not enough pro-
duction, not enough efficiency (employer and em-
ployee), not enough profit, not enough savings, not
enough genuine, productive investment.
The cure does not lie in shirking distasteful
issues, or merely in checks on imports or wasteful
spending. And it cannot be administered by the
Government alone, though perhaps the greatest
mistakes that Governments have made is in not
recognising this.
The cure, in fact, can only be made by industry
itself. Productivity per head must be increased ;
costs must be brought down. Governments can
only put on the brakes, as Mr. Menzies himself
knows.
Who's Making the Crisis?
ALTHOUGH Dr. Evatt has steered clear of official
engagements in New South Wales since his token
appearance on Cahill’s platform on policy-speech
night, he has put in several personal-appearances in
Victoria. In Melbourne on a recent weekend he
spoke at three different functions.
First he told a meeting of the Australian Rail-
ways Union that the “Labor” party was doing its
best to prevent a “deliberately manufactured crisis
in Australia.” Coming from one who has been
preaching since 1949 that a crisis is perennially at
hand and that only the return of a “Labor” Govern-
ment can save the country from its dire effect, this
is rather rich. If a crisis is now being deliberately
manufactured, what has become of the one that has
been threatening for seven years? Can it be that
it has been averted without the advent of an Evatt-
led Government? Or is this new threat the same
old crisis?
At the country conference of the Victorian
“Labor” party the Doc. spoke of the attempts that
were being made “to keep the standard of living of
the worker as low as possible.” Attacking the pro-
jected rise in interest-rates (since announced), he
said they “would mean higher profits for people
closely allied to the Federal Government” but
would cut the amount of money available for the
building of schools, hospitals, and other important
national works. The mixture of libel and Yarra-bank
logic conveniently ignored the fact that Govern-
ment loans have been becoming increasingly hard
to fill at the interest-rates offered, and that, according
to State Premiers, school- and hospital-building-
programmes have already had to be curtailed in
consequence. If the Doc. was not aware of this,
ex-Premier Cain, seated at his elbow, should have
been able to enlighten him, but “Honest John” didn t
do so. Instead, he spoke with undisguised glee of
the financial troubles besetting the Bolte Govern-
ment which supplanted his own last year.
The two leaders were together again at the
centenary Labor Day dinner at the Melbourne Town
Hall. It must have been a pretty good dinner,
because, according to the “Age”, the Doc. was
greeted with “sustained cheering and the singing of
‘For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow’ ” when he rose to
speak.
In the appropriate spirit of jolly-good-fellow-
ship Evatt appealed for solidarity in the party and
said that there were indications that the movement
(small “m”) was emerging from its “difficulties”
strengthened and would reach greater heights.
Cain, responding rather nobly to the call for soli-
darity from the man chiefly responsible for losing
him the Premiership and a third of his Parliamen-
tary following, took his cue from Evatt’s earlier
speech and forecast that action about to be taken by
the Federal Government would show “that the
opponents of ‘Labor’ had not changed their atti-
tude in the past 100 years. They still tried to
reduce wages, and they believed the way back to
stability was by restrictions against the poorer sec-
tions of the community.”
These opponents of Labor aimed at creating
another 1929-30 depression era, and it was the
duty of Labor to prevent this.
Cain didn’t bother to remind his audience that
“Labor” Governments were in office both in Can-
berra and Melbourne in 1929-30 and that he himself
was a Minister of the then Victorian Government.
To have done so might have necessitated explain-
ing why, if “Labor” could avert a depression now,
it was unable to do so then.
The remarks of Evatt and Cain were not
isolated utterances ; speeches by members of the
Federal “Labor” party, some of them old hands,
others new recruits to the Parliamentary ranks, but
apparently eager to prove their willingness to fol-
low the path laid down, show that the “manufac-
tured-crisis” is the New Look approach to the old
party line. It was plugged several times in the
course of the debate on the Governor-General’s
speech.
Mr. Webb, member for the new Stirling (W.A.)
seat, revived the unemployment-pool myth of 1949
and, after tying it on the Prime Minister, continued,
It was this Government that appointed the
notorious Professor Hytten to the Commonwealth
Bank Board. Professor Hytten said there should
be a pool of unemployed of from 6 to 8 per cent.
That is the direction in which we are heading at
the present time.
“Notorious” is scarcely an appropriate adjec-
tive for Professor Hytten, though it Is notorious that
almost every “Labor” man in Canberra has at some
time or other misquoted or misrepresented a small
section of the paper he delivered at a scientific
congress in Hobart in 1949. As to the “direction
in which we are heading,” Mr. Webb must get his
information from some other source than the Com-
monwealth Statistician. According to that
authority the number of persons receiving unemploy-
ment benefit at the end of January was 4742 out of
a work-force of 2,770,800 —in other words, an
unemployment puddle of 0.14 per cent.
Mr. Ward, of course, never makes a speech
without referring to unemployment, and his con-
tribution to the Address-in-Reply was no exception.
Thus:
The Government’s policy of restriction will
create widespread unemployment. It believes in
a low-wage policy because if wages can be kept
down that will be a method of reducing demand.
Mr. Cope, MJLR. for Watson, which is next-
door to East Sydney, borrowed one of Ward’s old
catch-cries and advocated a cessation of migration
until all Australians are housed. Continuing on
this theme he forecast unemployment and said that
when the Government brought in its “proposed
economic sanctions” we would see “want and misery
even worse than we saw in 1952 and 1953.”
Whether Cope’s limiting of the degree of
prophesied misery to something worse than the
minor setback of three years ago instead of giving
it the dimensions of the 1930 depression were due
to conscience, caution or incomplete briefing is
not known, but very few people are likely to have
their blood made to creep by a mention of the “want
and misery” of 1952-53.
Mr. Chambers, member for Adelaide and one-
time Minister for the Army, placed no such limita-
tions on his gloom. He saw in the present state of
the economy the pattern which preceded the 1930
era, and “we can now see prospects of another
recession.”
However, even for Mr. Chambers the picture
is not all gloom. There is a way of escape:—
I hope the day is not far distant when the
Australian people will realise once and for all that
the only party that can govern this country in the
interests ,of Australia and the Australian people
is the party which comprises the present Opposi-
tion, the Australian Labor Party.
In expressing that hope, Chambers was voicing
what is in the mind of every member of the “Labor
party and which inspires all their talk about unem-
ployment and “deliberately manufactured crisis.
Looked at in daylight, “Labor’s” New Look
policy is the same old policy of saying anything, no
matter how reckless and damaging it may be to
confidence and stability, which offers a vestige of
a chance of frightening the electors into putting
“Labor” back on the Treasury benches.


THE NEW RUSSIAN STEAM-ROLLER
(See page 28)


PLAIN ENGLISH
Why the New Taxes?
Why has the Federal Government found
it necessary to levy heavy taxes on luxury-
spending, with the aim of putting the
brake on inflation and helping to pay tor
State public works?
The story begins with World War 11.
During the war there was a great sacri-
fice of productive effort through concen-
tration on fighting the war. Many kinds
of national development came to a
standstill, hundreds of millions were spent
on military effort alone, normal activities
had to be neglected to that extent, and
Australia slipped back industrially be-
cause its working assets tended to become
worn-out and its manpower unsettled.
During the war an excess of money
issued in relation to limited civilian and
industrial production established the
basis of ominous inflation —there was
much more money about than civilian
goods. Price-control was ineffective.
With the end of the war there were
the wastage and arrears caused by six
years’ military effort to be made up. The
situation clearly called for a longer and
harder working-week in order to rehabili-
tate the country.
Instead, in 1947 the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court introduced the 40-hour
week, as against 44-hours previously
worked. The effective working-week soon
became much less than 40 hours. The
40-hour week has been a national
disaster
About the same time the expanded
social-security system of pensions, child-
endowment, medical benefits, etc.,
imposed additional obligations on the
working community to increase their
production.
Productivity per man or woman
employed fell for some time after the
war, instead of increasing. Such was the
demand for labor to do the things that
war had prevented being done that there
was soon “overfull” employment, and
trade-unionists tended to become less
diligent and less productive than ever.
This laxness spread to some manage-
ments.
' Costs-of-production, wages and prices
soared.
Altogether, because of the operation of
the 40-hour week and the fall in effort
by wage-earners during the fewer hours
of the working-week, production by Aus-
tralians in total has not been enough to
meet the higher standard of living asked
for by the present generation and the
wider spread of social-security benefits,
as well as the public works and private
enterprises the country needs —all of
which have to be provided for out of
the combined present efforts of Austra-
lians as a body.
The Federal Government has no out-
right Constitutional power to restore the
44-hour week. Powers in this connection
are jointly shared by the Commonwealth
and the States.
For some years after the war high
prices "for wool, wheat, metals, etc., pro-
vided Australia with such a large over-
seas income that we were able to import
a great volume of overseas raw materials
and manufactures, which helped to offset
the low rate of industrial productivity
within Australia.
Now wool and wheat prices have
fallen, while most overseas goods are as
dear as, if not dearer than, they were
when our export income was high. As a
result, Australia can no longer afford to
import as much as it could two years
ago, with the result that supplies of
many things are likely to become scarcer
and dearer in Australia.
With overfull employment, the national
income has tended to be distributed more
among the spenders than among the
savers. The middle-income and upper-
income classes are taxed particularly
heavily. There has thus been less saving
for investment purposes than in pre-war
years, and so it has become particularly
difficult to finance the national works
(such as railway-reconstruction) that
have been so urgently needed ever since
the war.
Failure of the public to support Gov-
ernment loans needed to finance State
public works over the past two years has
forced the Government into the creation
of new money to do part of the job. The
issue of this new money has been inflation-
ary ; the works should have been fully
financed by “old” money taken from the
public in the form of taxes or volunteered
by the public in the form of loans in order
to prevent this inflation.
At this point the Federal Government
has decided to impose additional sales-
tax and excise on luxury and non-essen-
tial spending in order to do three things—
(a) curb inflation by taking money from
the public to pay for national works in-
stead of creating new money through the
issue of Treasury-bills; (b) ensure that
essential national works are still carried
out, even if at high 40-hour-week costs
by extravagant State Governments;
(c) restrict the demand for luxury
imports.
What the Menzies Government has
done is only one step towards the
achievement of a solution to Australia’s
inflationary high-cost problem. The
nation is not producing enough, not sav-
ing enough, and not creating sufficient
national assets. State Governments and
all industry, employers and employees
together, will have to co-operate in
achieving these things.
Once they are achieved, and costs of
production are brought down sufficiently,
the prospect ahead of Australia is one
of extraordinary progress.
The remedy for our present ills can
be tersely summarised: A really fair
day’s work for a fair day’s pay—plus a
little extra work for the good of the
nation.
Travelling-companion
Comrade Malenkov, having an uncom-
fortable trip to Britain, was the right-
hand man of Stalin. He was “discovered”
by Stalin, nurtured by Stalin, took part
in all Stalin’s purges and was Stalin’s
main legatee and executor.
He and all the present gang of ruffians
who haunt the Kremlin and are promot-
ing the world-revolution rose in the wake
of the great Russian idol. So did the
Australian Communist party. It de-
nounced in unmeasured abuse everybody
who dared to suggest that Stalin was a
bloodthirsty tyrant, the murderer of
millions, the blood-brother of Hitler and
the cunning architect of world-revolution
and of plans to wreck the English-speak-
ing democracies.
As soon as Comrade Malenkov suc-
ceeded to the throne, however, doubts
began to arise, and some of Stalin’s in-
struments, including Malenkov’s old
friend and associate Beria, came to a
sticky end.
Now the crisis has reached its height.
Moscow has told the world that Stalin
was everything his worst enemies believed
him to be.
The Australian Communist party will
not blush. Blushes are not in its reper-
toire. Moscow now says that Stalin was
on a level with Hitler and Goebbels, so
it accepts with its usual meekness. It is
merely a tool to the Kremlin’s hand.
When the leaders of that slaughterhouse
turn over, Comrades Sharkey and Healy
and Brown (of the A.R.U.) turn over.
The attitude of the world to Comrade
Malenkov is curious. He arrived in Lon-
don and was politely received. All the
newspapers played up his winning smile,
his apparently gentle and pacific disposi-
tion and his pattings-on-the-head of
children. They mentioned his apparent
scorn of the safety precautions which had
been taken to protect him from the pos-
sible wrath of the haggard exiles whose
mothers and fathers were in Soviet
prison-camps or under the cold cellars of
the Lubianka with bullets in the backs
of their heads. There was no mention of
the horrors of Malenkov’s past, no word
about the slave-camps or the exiles.
Then Moscow gave tongue. It flung
itself on Stalin and raked him hip and
thigh. Few remarked cynically that the
people who were doing it had been the
instruments of his brutalities and had
risen to eminence by doing his bloody
and treacherous work. Perhaps the spec-
tacle of the change in Comrade Malenkov
was so arresting that nothing else in the
general view attracted the eye. In a
moment, after Moscow showed its teeth,
and blotted-out the attempts of Western
journalists in Moscow to report the Rus-
sian reaction to Khrushchev’s speech, the
fat visitor ceased to be a child-patter.
He became Security-minded and
returned to the normal habit of trapsing
round London at high speed guarded by
his own parade of marble-eyed janis-
saries, burp-gun armed. His rosy smile
gave way to the stony stare of the
doomed. He looked as if he had acquired
a companion on his travels: the ghost of
Marshal Tukhachevsky, erstwhile Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Red Army who
went to the Coronation festivities of
George VI in Britain as Russian repre-
sentative and returned to Moscow to find
himself a Fascist and British spy and
target for some of the first bullets of the
great Stalin-Malenkov-Molotov purge of
the later 19305.
Developing the North
“In the ACT”: There were sound rea-
sons for the somewhat self-congratulatory
speech of Territories Minister Paul
Hasluck when he tabled the report of the
Northern Territory Administrator, Mr.
F. J. S. Wise, on a recent world tour of
observation.
The Minister, referring to the fact
that the Territory’s population had
grown from 10,868 in 1947 to 17,563 last
year, and that mining production was
up from £643,000 in 1949 to £1,761.000
last year (excluding uranium), said that
some of the changed outlook “was
directly related to an increased effort by
this Government.” It was doing more,
he said, than any previous Government
to provide services and capital works, and
to stimulate industry.
Even the pastoral industry, stationary
for many years, was expanding under the
new long-term leases with their compul-
sory development conditions. In the last
five years £680,000 had been spent on
increasing and improving stock-routes.
New country had been opened up for
settlement, and there were far more
facilities for research and extension work
in animal industry problems and animal
husbandry.
Predicting that within ten years from
now the Territory would double its pre-
-1949 beef-output, Mr. Hasluck also men-
tioned the wave of optimism regarding
mineral prospects in the Territory, and
the investment of capital by private com-
panies in Australia and from overseas in
the exploitation of known deposits and
the search for further deposits.
These remarks were supplemented by
the Wise report, which laid some stress
on agricultural prospects, notably with
rice, tobacco and cotton. This “problem
country,” where development is increas-
ingly urgent in view of happenings in
some of its close Asian neighbors, re-
quires skilled and devoted attention by
the authorities responsible for land use,
for exploitation of minerals, and for
establishment of new and profitable in-
dustries. It appears that many of the
problems are now being tackled in the
right spirit.
Ringed with Red Fire
The situation in the Middle East con-
tinues to worsen. The Arab countries and
Cyprus are full of busy Communist
agitators, some open, most underground,
stirring-up as much strife as they can
against the British and the Americans and
hoping to drive them out of the Arabian
and Persian oilfields and deny them the
use of the Suez Canal and the landing-
grounds of Egypt and the Middle Eastern
countries. Israel has become a special
focus of their attention.
Israel is a pretext for war which is
being exploited for all it is worth. Russia
has a special interest in it because of its
powerful Jewish backing in the United
States and because there is no better
centre round which to fan the fires of
Arab hate until they get out of control.
Something like a state of war exists
between Israel and every adjacent
country. The expelled Arabs whose lands
have been taken over by the busy Israelis
keep up a constant agitation. The Arab
and Israeli zones in Jerusalem, which is a
small but turbulent edition of Berlin, are
held by force of arms, and denizens
walk warily of the rifle-bullet which
awaits those who step over defined lines,
however innocently.
The removal of Glubb Pasha from
command of the Arab Legion was a
shaking-off of restraint on Arab hate for
Israel and of the Arab kingdoms who
lean to the West. The Jordanese Arabs
itch to roll into Tel Aviv and join in the
immolation of Israel’s 1,600,000 people.
Last week the Israelis were watching
Jordan closely on the east. On the south
they were feverishly digging trenches and
other defences around strategic points.
Overlooking the Egyptian-held air-strip
at Gaza, and not more than a mile from
it, a large party, headed by Ben-Gurion,
the Premier, and General Dayan, Chief
of the General Staff were installing con-
crete machine-gun posts, and barbed-
wire aprons and digging fortifications
round the small holding-settlement of
Mivtahim. Premier, general, men and
women, and even children, were all wield-
ing the spade and the hammer or operat-
ing the concrete-mixers.
On the north, Syria on March 8 placed
its borders with Israel under direct mili-
tary command following “incidents.”
North, east, and south. There remains
the sea. Out in the Mediterranean, 60
miles from Syria and 40 miles from
Turkey’s mainland, lies Cyprus, which
was Venetian before the Turks captured
it in 1571. They ceded it to the British
in 1878, and are content that it should
remain in British hands. Its 357 Z square
miles are a vital aircraft defence-base of
the Middle East—vital to Britain, to
Turkey and the Baghdad Pact countries
and to Israel. Greece, which is trying to
wrest it out of the hands of the United
Kingdom, though as a country it is in-
capable of maintaining its own meagre
economy, has defence burdens greater
than it can carry.
The fact that the Eden Government,
so ready to give away any part of the
Commonwealth nominated by New York
editors, is determined to maintain it,
shows its importance.
Two Governments?
The slow-moving Commonwealth Com-
mittee on the Stevedoring Industry, after
eighteen months cogitation, has issued an
interim report, which the equally slow-
moving Mr. Harold Holt has tabled in
Parliament.
The committee has only completed
half its inquiry. It still has to go into
the “costs and profits of the industry.’’
If it doesn’t hurry up there will be noth-
ing but costs —certainly no profits and no
industry for it to investigate.
Mr. Healy and his fellow-Communists
of the Seamen’s and other unions affected
are killing the business as. fast as they
can without regard to the interests of
Australians, even of their own union-
members.
Mr. Holt, it appears, asked for the
interim report, since the Government
thinks that “it looks as though it might
have to act speedily in regard to water-
side unrest.”
It will.
Much of the season’s export fruit in
Tasmania is wasting on the wharves.
The great ports of the mainland are clut-
tered-up. The export industry, as the
Communists intend, is drifting to dis-
organisation, the harbors full of ships,
costs being piled up by loaf and stop-
page and go-slow and damage accentu-
ated in Sydney by the rainy season.
The report of the committee as pre-
sented to Parliament doesn’t throw much
more light on the subject than Mr. Holt.
The slow-moving investigators have dis-
covered that “certain arbitral functions
in relation to stevedoring operations
which belong to the Arbitration Court
should be handed to a new body by
Parliament.”
These are power to regulate conditions
of employment, the standard of supervis-
ion and methods of work, powers of de-
registration and suspension of workers
and employers, alternative systems of im-
posing fines as disciplinary measures
against both sides, administrative powers
to combat restrictive measures by
wharfies and recruiting and deregistra-
tion, etc.
The committee decided that the in-
dustry must be run by casual labor ; that
permanent employment was impractic-
able. It admitted the Watersider Workers’
Federation’s “practical monopoly” —the
Communists, of course, in principle are
dead against monopoly. It says the
union has correlating obligations to sup-
ply labor and if it doesn’t it shouldn’t
have a monopoly!
All this anybody could have told the
committee about the W.W.F. before it
started inquiring. And the trouble can be
largely settled by freeing the wharves of
Communist-type control, breaking the
monopoly by forcing the union to admit
suitable men who are prepared to work in
it at award rates, and by taking off the
register those who are not prepared to
work under award rates and conditions.
The position is fast coming in which
the big unions will have become the real
Government of the Commonwealth: a
Federation directed by the Communist-
party Central Committee and the A.W.U.
The greater unions seem to think they
have arrived at that position now. The
Building Workers’ Industrial Union is
at present impudently taking a referen-
dum as to whether Australian workers
should allow themselves to engage in
jobs connected with atomic trials designed
for the defence of this country and the
rest of the British Commonwealth against
the U.S.S.R., which claimed recently to
have exploded the biggest hydrogen-
bomb ever let-off.
This trend in union operations needs
stopping with great suddenness.
"Labor's" Foreign Policy
The continued refusal of Federal
“Labor” to join the Foreign Affairs
Committee is lamentable —the more sc
since every debate on international affairs
reveals how profoundly ignorant most
Opposition members are on the subject.
Many of them realise their deficiency
and are satisfied to leave “Labor’s”
Foreign policy to its most vocal exponent,
while they concern themselves with the
industrial problems on which they cut
their teeth in trade-union politics before
(i Continued on next page )


their translation to the national field. But
there are others who set thdfriselves up,
if not as experts, then at least as men
who have taken the trouble to make them-
selves familiar with the overseas scene.
As an example of this type the speech
Mr. Bryant, M.H.R. for Wills, contributed
to last week’s debate on international
affairs is illuminating.
Mr.. Bryant explains the problem of
world peace thus:
On the one side, apparently, we hare
the people of the United States of America,
and on the other side we have the people
of Kussia. These people, apparently, are
poles apart. We have, then, a total of 360
million people, one-eighth of the world’s
population, holding seven-eighths of the
world at bay through their failure to
agree.
What an extraordinarily naive inter-
pretation of the world-situation! What
an extraordinarily ridiculous interpreta-
tion ! Russia and America are
“apparently” presented as co-partners in
crime, whose “failure to agree menaces
the rest of the world. There is no mention
of why they disagree; no mention of
Russia’s vast conquests ; of Communist
infiltration in many parts of the world;
of the Nato pact in which most of the
free countries of Europe have aligned
themselves with America. The seven-
eighths of the world now held at bay
by Russian-American disagreement in-
cludes all the Nato Powers, all the Seato
Powers, Red China and all the Soviet
satellites, Israel and the Arab States, and
the other countries of Europe, Asia,
Africa and South America. And, of
course, Australia. Remove this foolish
Russian-American disagreement, and all
would be well! . .
Mr. Bryant regrets that whereas it is
fair to say that up to 1949, Australia
was the leader of the middle group of
Powers,” it has under the Menzies
Government lost that position and has
“become simply another vote in the party-
politics of the nations.” He wants Aus-
tralia to “point a very sound and
independent way” :< —
The conquering spirit that has moved
nations in international affairs for thous-
ands of years has caused untold misery.
We should stand against this sort of thing
and withdraw our troops from Malaya on
that premise alone.
Who does Bryant consider is attempting
to conquer Malaya? Our troops? The
British? Malaya’s Chief Minister Tunkun
Abdul Rahman has no objection to the
presence of either in his country, and
no doubts as to who the would-be con-
queror is.
Only three weeks ago he said:
I heartily thank all those members of
the Security Forces, both those who come
from overseas and those whose homes are
in Malaya, for their gallant and successful
efforts in preventing militant Communism
from imposing its will on the people of
the Federation.
The member for Wills is equally ill-
informed on the position in Cyprus.
Criticising British policy there, he said
that “Labor” believed that “the half-
million Cypriots, on that little island
which has been embattled for thousands
of years, have every right to rule
selves and decide their own destiny.”
Fair enough, but the stumbling-block
is that the Cypriots can’t agree oil what
is to be their destiny. The Enosis party
is not seeking self-rule, but union with
Greece, which the 100,000 Turkish
minority not mentioned by Bryant won t
stand a bar of.
“Labor” policy as expounded by
Bryant seems to be something like this:
“It .would be a marvellous world if every-
body Were friends, therefore everybody
should be friends and it would be a
marvellous world.”
It’s a very fine policy, too, in theory. To
realise its difficulties in practice Bryant
has no need to look outside his own
caucus.
POLITICAL POINTS
and Loan Council time comes round
again he’ll line-up to collect his share of
the proceeds.
• •
Victorians will vote next Saturday on
the question of late or early closing of
pubs. On the indications it should be
10-o’clock by a short head.
• •
In referendums on closing-hours
—and there have been many of them in
the early-closing States —the issue is never
a straightout one between early- and
late-closing. The six-o’clock vote is
always swollen by those who would really
like the pubs to close down altogether
and those who have no strong views one
way or the other, but simply vote for
the continuation of the status quo. The
influence of this last group was shown
clearly in Gallup-polls taken at the time
of the N. S. Wales liquor-referendum. In
the three States where early-closing was
in force early-closing won the poll; in
the three late-closing States, late-closing
won. In other words, the large neutral
section in each State merely voted for
“no change.” Liquor-referendums are
a custom-honored Government method
of passing the buck. Premier Bolte, of
It seems that most of the things the
Bulletin has said about Stalin in the past
thirty years are in danger of being
accepted as the orthodox line for all
loyal Communists.
• e
Cahill’s Cabinet Pudding is full of the
same old pips.
• ©
Victoria Cross winners living in Aus-
tralia are to be given a trip to London at
Commonwealth expense to enable them
to attend the celebrations arranged for
the centenary of the first awards of the
V.C. That’s one free trip no one will
criticise.
• e
Last year there was a suggestion that
the Federal Government should supply
fruit-juice to schoolchildren on a basis
similar to the free-milk scheme. Now
the N. S. Wales Citrus Growers’ Associa-
tion is to consider a plan for an orange
a day for every schoolchild in N. S. Wales
—at Government expense. It’s remark-
able how concerned all these people are
for the health of the children: —provided
someone else pays for it.
• •
After last week’s excise-increases the
Menzies-Fadden Government can hardly
be said to be run by the breweries.
• •
In N. S. Wales the Attorney-General
(Mr. Sheahan), the Minister for Health
(Mr. O’Sullivan), the Minister for Trans-
port (Mr. Wetherell), the Minister for
Housing (Mr. McGrath), the Minister for
Public Works (Mr. Renshaw), the Minis-
ter for Conservation (Mr. Enticknap),
the Minister for Lands (Mr. Hawkins),
the Minister for Labor and Industry
(Mr. Landa), have been relieved of their
portfolios. Their places will be taken by
Mr. Downing (Attorney-General), Mr.
Sheahan (Health), Mr. Wetherell (Con-
servation), Mr. McGrath (Public Works),
Mr. Enticknap (Transport), Mr. Landa
(Housing), Mr. Nott (Lands), Mr.
Maloney (Labor and Industry). In other
words “the mixture as before,” but with
the ingredients in slightly different order.
Messrs. Nott and Maloney had previously
been Ministers without portfolios.
Mr. O’Sullivan, who voluntarily stood
down from Cabinet, is the only absentee
from the “new” team; Mr. Simpson
(without portfolio), the only newcomer.
In addition to these changes, the offices
of Attorney-General and Justice have
been combined under former Minister
for Justice Downing. This, of course,
has nothing to do with criticism levelled
at former Attorney-General Sheahan in
the last Parliament. . That gentleman’s
transfer to Health has been made, Premier
Cahill explains, “because of his wide ex-
perience, ability and vitality.”
There’s a new portfolio—Child Wel-
fare and Social Welfare. It goes to Mr.
Hawkins, de-rusticated from Lands.
Main Roads becomes Highways; 'super-
vision of this department will be in the
hands of Local-government Minister
Renshaw.
• •
The A.W.U. and the graziers don’t
believe in “shear-and-shear-alike”!
• •
A solemn proclamation will soon lift
the ban on the import of sausage-casings
from the United States, where a nasty dis-
ease of swine has been practically wiped-
out. Announcing this, Federal Health
Minister Cameron said the news would
relieve the smallgoods-manufacturing
industry (he didn’t say anything about
the sausage-eaters), and would be “re-
ceived with satisfaction by the United
States, which imports large quantities of
sheep-casings from Australia.” What goes
on which?
0 0
Cahill’s comment on the new taxes: “I
find it difficult to appreciate the need for
people to tighten their belts in the midst
of prosperity.” But then Joe has always
believed in having his cake and eating it,
too. He’ll join in the howl of protest
against the imposition of the new
charges, but when Premiers’ Conference
ROLL OUT THE BARREL!
Victoria, is quite entitled to hold one ii
he wishes to. But there’s no need to pre-
tend that it is any more democratic than
an Act passed by a Government demo-
cratically elected to govern.
• •
America is to launch a dozen satellites
into space between July, 1957, and June,
1959. The report that the Soviet intends
to deal similarly with Poland, Czecho-
slovakia, Hungary, Rumania, Bulgaria,
Albania and East Germany has not been
confirmed.
• •
Will the States be prepared to refer
to the Commonwealth power over hire-
purchase? Menzies told a press con-
ference the other day that if they did, it
would be possible to deal with h.-p. trans-
actions from both ends, “the interest in
and the interest out.” He added that he
would talk to the States about it in due
course.
• •
' Rum-currency again—paying for State
public works out of increased excise on
grog and the like.
• ©
Although Evatt and Co. would like to
think that the elimination of the Anti-
Communist “Labor” party from the Reps,
meant the end of the section, the party is
by no means dead in Victoria, and if the
Ballarat by-election for the Legislative
Council is any guide, most of its sup-
porters are still very much against the
Doc’s party. Of the 6444 votes gained
by Tobin, the A.-C. Laborite, 5109 went
to Liberal candidate Dickie and only
1335 to the official “Labor” man,
Williams. This means the Libs, collected
almost 80 per cent. Many’s the time
when they haven’t done as well as that
on Country-party prefs.
• •
Scot’s Church, Melbourne, held a
special day of prayer against 10-o clock
closing; it lasted from nine a.m. to
six p.m. Apparently there’s no six-
o’clock prayer - swill problem in
Melbourne!
• •
By the way many “Labor” men now
speak of former party-members and
trade-union secretaries who became con-
ciliation-commissioners it is clear that
they expected those gentlemen to become
rubber-stamps to give official approval to
all trade-union demands. Galvin, a former
A.R.U. official who earned the enmity of
the movement by diis margins-judgment,
is a case in point, and J. R. Donovan is
another.
Donovan was M-L.A, for Murray in
the N.S. Wales Parliament for two years
and was later private secretary to Eddie
Ward— hardly the type of man who could
be regarded as having a bias towards the
graziers. Yet his award, which reduced
shearing-rates by 5 per cent, (removing
part of the prosperity-loading added when
wool-prices soared), could not have been
received by the A.W.U. with more venom
if it had emanated from the president
of the Graziers’ Federation.
• •
Enticknap drew the unlucky marble
in Cahill’s Cabinet reshuffle. Transport
has been thrown from one lap to another
in the past few years, and no recipient
has been happy about the gift. The new
man gets it with the certainty of a whack-
ing deficit for the current year. Next
year’s problems are his.
• •
Nine Greek sponge-divers have come
out to try pearlshell-diving out of
Broome. They were selected by the
pearling-officer of the Dept, of Primary
Industries, E. Norman, a former master-
pearler.
Broome will be interested to see how
their performance compares with that of
Japanese and Koepanger divers.
• •
Announcing that the migration-target
for the current financial year was likely
to be reached, with an intake of 125,000,
the chairman of the planning council,
Hulme, said there was no pro-
blem in migration from the U.K. in
terms of numbers, and assisted sailings
of Dutch migrants were particularly
satisfactory. The Governments of the
Scandinavian countries and Switzerland
did not want immigration possibilities
openly publicised, but leading Scandin-
avian journalists who had been encour-
aged by the Australian Government to
visit us had provided valuable publicity.
Last year 130,795 people arrived in
Australia with the intention of remain-
ing permanently, but permanent depar-
tures reduced the gain by migration dur-
ing the year to 95,317.
» •
In Melbourne for the Liquor Hours
referendum —he’s supporting the reten-
tion of 6-o’clock closing—Clive Evatt
told an audience that the “brewery-com-
bine” was the greatest single corrupter of
Australia’s political life. “It corrupts
the leaders of every political party” Clive
has had personal experience of only one
political party, the A.L.P., which is led
in N. 1 S. Wales by Cahill and in Canberra
by brother Bert.
• •
Revised estimates for the 1955-6 wheat
harvest place the figure at 195.6 million
bushels. Yield per acre —19.4 bushels
—was the highest ever. All we have to
do now is sell the crop.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
WHAT is all this poppycock about
French cooking?—the famous M.
Oliver flying in to tell us of the fabulous
dishes he serves at the Grand Vefour,
where millionaire American girls have to
be'taught not to drink Coca-cola with
their caviare!
Nom d’un pipe, we are not all mil-
lionaires, and those of us who have
sampled the average Parisian cafe have
other views: the “fixed price for tour-
ists” to which is so cunningly added so-
many francs for the napkin, so-many for
the roll, so-many for the butter, so-many
for the cutlery even, plus the percentage
for service, plus the tip on top of that;
the awful paper tablecloth (at so-many
francs extra) plonked on top of the wads
of filthy “cloths” at which other diners
have been feeding for the past week;
the soggy omelette which is all you can
possibly afford; the dreadful vin
ordinaire.
Four-shillings for a roll-and-coffee for
breakfast at my hotel, seven-and-six if
you had one bad egg with it; £3 at one
of the better hotels for a chicken-dinner
“Something to drink out of, Grandpa!”
no better than you could get at any
Sydney hotel for less than half the price.
I must admit that I ate one satisfying
meal in Paris, though; and that was
when, lured into a hamburger-joint by the
offer of “biftek anglais,” I was con-
fronted with a slab of raw horse-meat.
At least I didn’t want to eat any more
that day.
Mac Hoots.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pevin”: Even the despised Western
yields a turn of expression both com-
pact and vivid: “Abbie was young, but
in places where girls grow up, she had.”
“Stan”: Makers of electric washing-
, machines may be losing a fortune by not
exploiting to the full the possibilities of
their products. Twenty-odd-dozen mus-
sels for a Saturday-night party were
cooked to perfection in a washer, previ-
ously scoured, and later deodorised to
prevent detection by the host’s wife, who
was at the pictures. The hint is offered
free to salesmen at beachside resorts, and
husbands everywhere.
♦2« ♦> <£♦
“Satukaki”: I have moved to a place
in the country where the telephone-
exchange closes between 1 p.m. and 2
p.m., so I was surprised to get a ring at
1.30. The caller was the elderly spinster
who runs the post-office-cwm-store.
There was a large parcel for me, and
would I collect right away? Couldn’t
think of any parcel due, so said I would
be along later when I had finished lunch.
“But it looks like a leg,” came a trembl-
ing reply, “and I’m sure you would like
to take it away whilst no one is around.”
I recalled the long-overdue spare tin-leg
that Repat. had had for repair. “I’m not
in any hurry for it,” I replied. “But,”
she insisted, “I’m sure you don’t want
anyone to see it.” When I arrived at the
store the she was serving a motorist, and
she waited until he was well away before
dragging the fearsome parcel from be-
neath the counter. I felt a shudder as she
struggled to pass it over to me, and I
hadn’t the heart to crack the joke that
was on the tip of my tongue. Opening
the shop-window she surveyed the road
to make sure the coast was clear, and
then told me to make haste. As I left
the store with my leg tucked underneath
my arm I heard a gasp of relief. I must
ask Repat., next time, to use a box, or
at least to wrap the limb so that the
kneejoint does not articulate.
❖ ❖
“Ilean”: Returning-officers at a South
Australian polling-booth on March 3 had
an extra duty—preventing electors from
putting their votes in the money-box on
an automatic drink-dispenser.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Narumee”: After the Coronation, the
Queen’s visit, Christmas, and Moomba,
Melbourne has now broken-out in a
rash of posters covered with Olympic
circles. Rattling past the tenth or so on
the suburban train, the housewife glanced
up from her shopping-list, smiled with
relief, and murmured: “Oh, yes! Mince
for the {neat-balls!”
“Sister Ellell”: Among the fairly
regular callers at our Mess during the
last stoush was an amusing officer from
up the line. His plain dial would appear
around the flap of the mess-tent, and his
greeting was invariably, “Good evening,
ladies, one and all.” In answer to our
query as to his health at the height of
the Wet, he unbuttoned his safari, and laid
bare his chest. “Take a panoramic at
that,” quoth he. “Isn’t that the best
little drop of prickly-heat you’ve ever
seen?” We agreed; even though we
scratched away interminably ourselves,
we couldn’t demonstrate. But what
amazed us even more was that his chest
was not hirsute, and we said so. He
replied that he usually was, but owing
to the exigencies of service he’d let
another officer pull it out! We told him
that, quite frankly, we did not believe
him; so he said that on his next visit
he d prove it, only if the hair had not
grown by then he’d have to bring a
“stand-in.” He flatly refused to satisfy
our curiosity any further, and we had to
wait. They tumed-up later. Seemingly,
because of no air-raids (up to then!) they
combated boredom by taking to
gambling: for as much hair as could be
grasped between the thumb and fore-
“Oh, yes. Now show me some divots.”
finger'from the opponent’s chest, bets
were taken, on the count of odds or
evens, at a quid a time!
♦jt
“Kia-Ora”: What is in woman’s nature
to evoke her modern practice of shopping
in the furnishing-departments for frock-
and skirt-lengths, and going to the dress-
materials for curtain-lengths?
♦{«
“Vincit”: Organists are certainly a
dying race, and not only for reasons
specified lately in The Bulletin. A
mediocre performer, a sound knowledge
of the hymn-tunes and the selection of
very simple voluntaries enabling me to
make the grade, I thought I had the
organ at my fingertips until, having satis-
tied myself that all was in
order with the ivoried tiers
and the multitudinous push-
button assembly, I went into
action. The resultant blast
could have been heard four
streets away. Frenzied stop-
tugging did nothing to mini-
mise the sound. Ultimately
light dawned, and the Full
Organ foot-pedal was pressed
into silence. Fate was un-
kind —the music chosen for
this masterly exhibition was
“Sweet and Low.”
* * $
“Doormat”: A Melbourne
man has invented a machine
which can take down your
order if you happen to be
looking in a shop-window at
night. His “ordermatic” is
an electronic recorder, and
will even take a deposit so as
to clinch the bargain. You
place two-bob in a slot near
the window, then tell a near-
by microphone your name,
address, etc., and it’s all
taped-down. The goods are
delivered next day to your door. It’s the
only machine of its type in the world, un-
less you count its distant relation —the
one-armed bandit.
♦j* ♦*+ ♦S-
“Rodney”: Should there be politicians?
While one paper seems to take one view,
with “100 m.p.h. Gusts in Northern
Towns: Strong Local Appeal to M.P.,”
another paper takes the other—“ Minister
Flying to Flooded Areas: Hundreds
Barricade Their Doors.”
*l* ***
“P.M.”: Balzac reckoned that the
primary aim of artists was to paint with
the hand as they saw with the eye. But
reading press-comments stung from pro-
minent modernists by criticism of their
entries in recent competitions and exhi-
bitions suggests that the predominant
urge now must be to paint with the hand
while the eye looks at something else.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Proposals by the Muni-
cipal Association of Victoria for a rise
in dog-registration fees from five-bob to
ten-bob, brought a warning from Premier
Bolte that an increase in fees would
probably lead to an increase in the num-
ber of stray dogs, which were already a
menace to poultry and sheep in country
areas, and to children in the city. Besides,
dogs do a valuable service to society by
eating dogs’-meat—if they didn’t, it
would be served-up to you-know-who.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Stretch”: When an old lady, during
the inevitable weather-conversation, told
me it was not because of the Bomb, I
was surprised and pleased. “No,” she
continued, her voice hushed by the im-
mensity of the secret she was about to
impart, “it’s not the atom-bomb —it’s
this radar!"
“Joanne” :* On the door of the Glades-
ville (Sydney) branch of the Common-
wealth Employment Service: “Office-
hours: 9 a.m. to 5.06 p.m.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“J.E.”: When cyclone Agnes struck over
Cairns, storeman Donald Camp hopped
on his roof with hammer and nails.
Agnes puffed and huffed and heaved, and
the piece of iron Camp was nailing lifted.
In a second he was higher than the tele-
graph-poles ; sailed bumpily at speed
through the air for 200yds ; then the iron
dived. Now 28, Camp was known in
Queensland a bit earlier as a jockey—
which may account for his getting off
his latest mount with only a few bone-
fractures.
% ♦>
“Spinifex”: When the Sultan of
Johore (B. 7/3/’56) arrived in Sydney
the shipping-folk, fearing trouble with
the immigration authorities, were loath
to let him land. The Sultan made some
acid remarks about Australia’s willing-
ness to accept his money for her thor-
oughbred horses, but not him. When the
hitch had been unravelled The Bulletin
came to light with some verses and a full
page of illustrations by, I think, “Hop."
To the best of my recollection, the
verses went summat like this:
The Sultan of Johore
Was about to step ashore.
A high-priced diamond-hilted smile his dusky
features wore.
(His teeth had been attended-to by dentists m
Johore.) \
Said the skipper, at his door,
“There’s a duty ’ere on ore.
Likewise diamonds; an’ wot’s more, t
I must treat you as an alien in the meanin’ o
th’ law.”
Then a dreadful oath he swore.
Did the Sultan of Johore.
“I’ve bought some beastly horses heah . . ,
I won’t buy any more.’'’
Then he slammed his cabin door,
Did the Sultan of Johore.
Which so impressed the skipper
That he let him go ashore.
AND SO, WE SAY FAREWELL....
“Mr. James Fitzpatrick, world-famous maker
of 300 film-travelogues, said Sydney Harbor
Bridge would, be ‘a big thing’ in the film he
is making of Australia.”
Welcome, Mr. Fitzpatrick, to our beau-
tiful city;
Are you thinking of giving color-film
away ?
In that case, if it fines-up, it will be a
pity —
You could have done Sydney for a
month past in nothing but grey.
Talking of grey, are you really making
Our Bridge ‘‘a big thing’’ ?
It could hardly be said we’re in love
with it any more.
Couldn’t you have someone saying, “ I’m
tired of that old thing —
Where does it lead to excepting to
clammy North Shore?”
No; rather would we join you in your
world-famous litany
Saying, “Farewell, beautiful Sydney,
and your hot, humid spells !
Let us go with Mr. Fitzpatrick to Mexico,
Greenland or Brittany —
To any of his 300 paradises anywhere
else !”
N.s.w.
SWILLIAM.


ON January 20 I wrote to a Govern-
ment department in another State,
seeking pamphlets and some readily-
available information. A letter arrived
back, dated January 27, giving me the in-
formation and thanking me for mine of
January 20. The pamphlets were pro-
mised u.s.c. They arrived shortly after-
wards, perhaps a day earlier because they
carried an extra 3d. late-fee postage. This
would seem commendable promptitude
even on the part of a competition-con-
scious private firm, but from a Govern-
ment department would have been
staggering if my letter hadn’t been dated
1955, the reply, 1956. —“Geep.”
♦>
“Narumee”: Let’s get this right before
the clans descend, “Old Mac” (B.
7/3/’56) and “0.W.W.” (B. 15/2/’56).
A Scotsman doesn’t go about wearing
kilts or A kilt. He wears the kilt.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: Several Sydney stores
have their own training-schools for shop-
assistants. Two put applicants for jobs
through a kind of third-degree as to ante-
cedents, intelligence and whatnot before
giving ffiem a chance to learn shop-assist-
ing. It is from behind their counters that
courtesy and service are the rule rather
than the exception.
“M’boro”: Residents of Red-
cliffe Peninsula, popular sea-
spot near Brisbane, voted out
a by-law amendment aimed at
allowing unrestricted Sunday
entertainment. Only 49 per
cent, voted, but this was taken
as good going by previous polls ;
11 and 18 per cent. Advocates
of the open-Sunday move wanted
to make the Peninsula “a sec-
ond Coney Island.” Opponents
including the churches
called it the “commercial
Sunday” campaign, and said it would
bring in too many louts. Blows were
swapped between Redcliffe aldermen in
the council-chambers before the issue
reached public settlement.
♦♦♦ ►>
“Kelly’s Friend”: If “W.P.T.” (B.
29/2/’56) strolls along New Oxford-street
the next time he is in London he will
find that somebody beat Governor
Phillip to the honor of being canonised
in order to become patron of a church.
They did it better in the Old Dart, too,
by ordering a statue of the patron-
“saint,” and putting it bang on top of
the steeple. The church is St. George’s,
Bloomsbury, and the original of the
statue was his Majesty George the First.
A few lines were composed in honor of
St. George the First:
When Harry the Eighth left the Pope in the
lurch,
He ruled over England as Head of the Church;
But Qeorge’s good subjects, the Bloomsbury
people,
Instead of the Church, made him head of the
steeple.
♦J*
“Judee”: Lithgow (N.S.W.) Rotary
Club holds a weekly dinner at which
there is usually a guest-speaker, often
from Sydney. The president (Alderman
W. Z. Black), managing-director of the
brewery, and Mr. Alf Hutton, a hotel-
licensee, were deputed to make the guest-
speaker welcome, and duly introduced
themselves. “I represent Alcoholics
Anonymous,” the guest-speaker said,
“and will speak on that subject tonight.”
i* +>
“N.L.”: On a suburban screen:
“Johnny Jones required at the office.” A
scuffling and whispering among the boys
at the front, then: “That’s you, Bill-
see you later, Bill.” Bill’s father, it
seems, had religious views, and didn’t
see eye-to-eye with “the pictures.” Bill’s
mother was more broadminded, and so
Bill went “to play” with Johnny—at the
pictures. When Bill’s father came home
unexpectedly, Johnny’s mother called the
theatre and he went home to safety.
“W.P.T.”: The outer-Sydney real-
estate agent who advertises “Speaking
English, French, German, Hungarian and
Polish” would be better suited to selling
lots in Paradise —but no doubt that’s
what he assures them it is.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: When Victoria had barmaids
a couple of decanters were kept con-
spicuously handy, one containing a weak
brew of tea (“sherry”) and the other
raspberry-vinegar and water (“port”).
Most licensees closed their eyes to the
deception, and the money paid-over by
gallant shouters subsequently found its
way into the ladies’ purses. But the old
cigar-trick is still working. Only the other
day a publican showed me a cigar which,
he said, was worth a couple-of-notes a
week to him. When asked to join in a
drink, his invariable reply is, “No thanks,
a wise hotelkeeper never drinks in busi-
ness-hours, but I’ll take a cigar and
enjoy it later.” That one cigar had been
working for him for well over two years.
❖ ❖
“Eddas”: My own childhood ambition
to “pull the emergency-cord and see what
happens” was fulfilled. In 1943, travell-
ing (on leave) from Rockhampton to
Brisbane on the mail-train, we were a few
miles past Bororen, with the train hurt-
“ Time, ladies and gentlemen, please! Five-o clock closing here!"
ij ng a i o ng at about 50-miles-an-hour,
w hen I felt a terrific bump. Looking
out of the window down to the rear
bogie, which should have been under
my seat, I saw a wheel crazily skidding
along the rail, spinning at all angles,
This was my big chance—l immediately
pulled the cord. Nothing seemed to
happen. When I had also pulled the
pipe-housing bracket from the wall, and
yelled instructions to my counterpart on
the opposite side of the carriage to “pull
the chain,” the train came to a standstill.
Hopping out to inspect, we met a panting
guard debating with himself whether the
matter was serious or a prank. He found
a cleanly-broken axle, indications show-
ing that the axle had been almost sawn
through before the train had been
assembled. Sabotage, no doubt. When
the guard seemed to consider the
matter seriously, and opined that had we
proceeded a further half-mile the train
would have encountered a series of
curves, and almost certainly have been
derailed, my cup of glory was over-
flowing. We arrived in Brisbane at
4.30 p.m., 10i hours late.
♦> ❖ *■
“Ex-R.S.M.”: I suffered no shortage
of pocket-money when I was a kid. A
driveway led to the rear of our suburban
home, lined with pepper-trees whose
branches swept the ground; a favorite
haunt of couples. Every morning I would
hurry down to search the ground under
those pepper-trees. Usually there was at
least a pocket-knife, a few coppers or
even a silver coin or two which had rolled
out of a man’s pocket. Once I found a
fountain-pen and Bs. ; the owner adver-
tised for the pen and I returned it to
him, but he waved-away the Bs. Out of
gratitude I told him that our chaff-shed
farther up the drive had no lock on the
door and was a dry refuge m wet weather,
After that I frequently found a sixpence
on the ledge by the door. Alas, a new
family moved into the house alongside
the driveway, and an old maid told my
mother of the “awful goings-on” in the
seclusion of those pepper-trees ; and so
my father put up a pair of high double-
gates, topped with barbed-wire, across the
entrance to the driveway. I never forgave
that old witch for cutting-off my income.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Ilean”: Psalm 104, I find, is very
sound on drinking; it mentions water
with which “the wild asses quench their
thirst,” and “wine that maketh glad the
heart of man.”
* ❖ ❖
“Geep”: Can anyone tell Me why, of
all the pronouns, only I is always printed
with a capital?
❖ ❖ ❖
“M.E.H.”: In the back-dated film he
stropped a blade-razor, reversing his
strokes on the edge of the razor instead
of the back. There were a few guffaws
besides mine. It is a safe bet that
millions of even middle-aged men have
never had cutthroat razors at their
throats; the sign “Sorry, No Shaving”
in many barbers’ shops makes it almost
impossible these days.
* ❖ *
\
“Apemantus”: School - trained in
traffic-safety, a 17-year-old described his
motor-cycle riding-test: “Got asked a
lot of guff about crossing-lights. No
need to say, but they’re easy. You can
always beat the red by a few seconds, but
you have to be quick!”
CITY-BOUND, 11 a.m. Saturday, eight
empty seats on the tram; the con-
ductor helped-off an elderly lady on
crutches, and was not featured in the
newspapers. Same morning, I sent a tele-
gram ; walked up to the gentleman
waiting behind the queueless counter.
Next day drove back from a popular
beach-resort at a steady 35 m.p.h.; and
a taxi gave me the right-of-way. Baker
calls with, in his basket, four different
kinds of bread, and scones and buns.
Garbage-men put the lids back and col-
lect my offerings from behind the house.
In the main street, busy morning, garage-
man looked puzzled when I asked for an
appointment to get the car greased—had
her on the hoist in four-minutes. Aus-
tralian cigarettes on the counter, likewise
bottled-beer. Shop-people everywhere in-
terested and courteous. Road damaged
by heavy rain—morning-paper mentioned
fact that 50 men had worked all night to
get the holes filled before morning. Girl
assaulted, dark night—papers screamed
at this unusual savagery ; squads of police
on job, offender caught within 48-hours
. . . Nothing to skite about here in Bris-
bane ; but I hail from Sydney.—
“Macnell.”
HINTS FOR TINTS
“New hair-tints for women include pineapple
(an ashy-blonde), summer-peach (golden-
blonde), ripe-apricot (pale-red) nectarine
(reddish-brown), plum (greenish-blonde) and
burnt-banana (shaded-blonde).”
It started with Eve, you know.
She couldn’t stand the hue
That Nature gave her hair; and so
two uses
She discovered (to men’s woe )
For the only fruit that grew:
She dipped her tresses into apple-
juices.
And perhaps it wasn’t bad.
Ah, but she’d have stunned her mate
(And reached her own tonsorial
Nirvana ).
If only she had had
The means to impregnate
Her “crowning glory” with some
burnt-banana!
Our women have, since then,
Never ceased the search for shades
To make their hair look what it
ain’t. From carrots
To peroxide, hydrogen,
They have used all tonal grades,
Including yellow of the crested-
parrots.
Platinum’s no longer in;
Bottled-ginger, too, is through.
The fashion now for Daphne and
Diana,
Is for plum or nectarine.
Soak the hairdo in the goo;
But, girls, DO have a go at burnt-
banana !
Fruit-confusing it must be
For the simple man who’d con
The scene upon our warm and golden
beaches,
And before him, startlingly,
See pineapple-hair upon
One of our best sun-ripened summer-
peaches.
Oh, the tint of ripening corn
Had some glamor, I’ll attest —
Witness the shining locks of Grace
and Lana.
But forget it. Please adorn
Manes with fruit-tints. And the best ?
The perm, that’s painted like a
burnt-banana!
N.s.w.
S.W.K.


.. the
Reservations:
aristocrat of Australian skies
TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Just notched his 95th birthday at
Canterbury (N.Z.), Sir R. Heaton Rhodes,
who was Minister of Defence in the
Massey Government. He served in
S’Africa in 1902 ; was at Gallipoli and
other theatres during the Kaiser’s war
as commissioner of the Red Cross, and
collected his K.B.E. in 1920.
0 ©
Chairman of the Australian Water
Research Foundation, Jack Gordon
Beale, M.L.A., told a Bulletin man thaf
the organisation hopes to spend about
£30,000 a year on water-research. The
proposed method is to invite universities
to nominate someone to do the work, the
foundation weighing-in with the neces-
sary funds. But first, of course, there is
the problem of raising money. Apparently
the foundation has the support of some
big firms, particularly those interested in
spray-irrigation and industrial uses of
water.
Ames Irrigation, of which J.G.B. is
governing-director, has for some time
been interested in Geddes’s water-
WATER-RESEARCH
haryesting work at Badgery’s Creek
(N.S.W.). And the organisation seems
to have got over one big hurdle for
similar projects in the fact that dona-
tions to it and membership-fees are
allowable as tax-deductions. C.5.1.R.0.
normally acts as referee for the Taxation
Department in such cases, so the Water
Research Foundation must have satisfied
C.5.1.R.0. on scientific bona tides.
An engineer with an impressive string
of letters after his name, from Austra-
lian and U.S. professional bodies, Beale
has been interested in water-problems for
a long time and, as a consultant, has
viewed them in a variety of countries.
Keen on Rugby (Union and League) and
boxing in his youth, at 39 he stays in
hard condition by swimming, tennis, and
regular work-outs at judo. Claims if you
don’t take holidays—he doesn’t —you
have to keep fit. He’s represented South
Coast in the State House since 1942.
0 0
“Fitz”: Cuthbert Dale Collins —the
Cuthbert was soon dropped—who has
passed on in Melbourne at 58, wanted
to be a writer when he was a nipper and
lived to bank shoals of royalty-cheques.
The son of a medico and brother of Vice-
Admiral Sir John Coffins, Dale was born
at Balmain (Sydney), the family moving
later to Victoria. Dale’s first literary
effort won him five-bob from “Dame
Durden,” who ran the children’s-page in
the old “Tasmanian Courier.” As a cub-
reporter on Melbourne “Herald,” he
found time to write pars., articles, topical
verse and stories for The Bulletin,
Melbourne “Punch” and “Table Talk.”
His first novel was a N.S.W. Bookstall
Co. paper-back, Stolen or Strayed, a
crime-story located in Melbourne and
along the Murray River. Then came his
big chance. In 1922, A. Y. Gowen, an
American cement-millionaire, arrived in
Brisbane, travelling the world in
the Speejacks, a 64-ton motor-yacht.
Gowen wanted a colorful writer to
accompany him and report; Dale got the
job, and out of it came The Sea-trdcks of
the Speejacks, and his second novel,
Ordeal, which became a bestseller, was
produced as a play in London, and later
as a film. Altogether he wrote close on
20 novels, many books for children, a
work descriptive of the Victorian
countryside, a brief autobiography, and
a great deal of fiction for English and
American magazines. He travelled
extensively and enjoyed life, always
looked like a prosperous, sportive
businessman on a holiday, was good
company, open-hearted, and a great
yarn-spinner.
© •
“Smithy’s” radio-operator on many
flights, J. S. Stannage has resigned from
his job as manager of Station 3ZB (N.Z.)
broadcasting - service to become
managing-director of a chemical concern.
He was there when P. G. Taylor did his
famous job over the Tasman (feeding oil
from the port- into the starboard-motor,
clinging to a strut when the port-
propellor splintered), and he was radio-
operator of the Canberra when
Kingsford-Smith and Ulm were found in
the Simpson Desert. He came from
South Africa, and met “Smithy” in San
Francisco, thereafter being one of his
team on many flights.
• •
“Cauboy”: If Hollywood has its Oscar,
Melbourne has its Erik. Whether Mel-
bourne’s Erik will attain to the inter-
national importance of Hollywood’s
Oscar remains to be seen, but if Eric
Reimann and Beverley Dunn, who won
the awards this year, aren’t as good actors
as some of the stars who get the American
award the game’s not fair. Reimann
collected the bauble for his weirdly-amus-
ing performance in “My Three Angels,”
the convict play staged at Melbourne
Comedy. Miss Dunn starred in the Mel-
bourne Little Theatre production of “I
Remember Mama.” The presentations
were made by Hayes Gordon, star of
“Kismet,” with “honorable mentions”
for Frank Thring, Ray Lawler, Roma
Johnstone, Trixie Grey, June Jago and
Doris Fitton. The award was inaugur-
ated by George Pravda, the brilliant
German actor who has just returned to
Europe, and is in honor of Erik Kuttner,
the German histrion who escaped from
the Hitler terror just before World War
II and settled in Melbourne.
• •
Youngest delegate at the Australian
conference of police-technicians in
Sydney was Det.-constable Peter Eaves,
of the Hobart C. 1.8.; a nephew of
black-and-white artist Jack Quayle. He
served with the Navy in War 11, after-
wards worked at gunsmithing, and joined
the Force three years ago. Went through
general police-training before being
posted to his present position, 0.1. C. of
the Ballistics Section. At 29, he’s the
youngest of his kind in Australasia.
• 0
“M.G.S.” on a master of menus:
Brigadier Cyril Maurice Lloyd Elliott,
0.8. E., holds down the most succulent job in
Melbourne —director of catering for the 1956
Olympics. He has something of the appearance
of a Paris chef of the grand school, mingled
with a suggestion of medieval monasticism.
But he didn’t get the appointment on the
strength of his looks. He has an astonishing
capacity for the detail of his subject—and needs
it. For Olympic Village, with its staff of 2000,
its 6000 athletes and their strappers (male and
female), its 11 dining-rooms in 11 groups, will
take some feeding.
Brigadier Elliott has to provide multiple
menus for the nationals of 73 countries, taking
into account the religious peculiarities of diet
of Moslems, Brahmins, Jews, Buddhists and
the like, and the racial fancies of Chinese,
Malays, Finns, Russians, Hungarians, and so
on. Make allowance far religious festivals
and national days—for instance, the Yanks’
traditional turkey and cranberry-sauce on
Thanksgiving Day—and fit all this into the
needs of various athletic types and different
stages.
Also, most need different diets when train-
ing and performing. Then there are calories:
the average Australian takes in about 3000 per
day, the soldier about 4000, the hungry athlete
in the order of 5000. A flyweight-boxer may
need only 3500, a weightlifter mightn’t be able
to get by with less than 5500.
Specimen menus have been sent off to
countries concerned for comment; 110 chefs,
avec raw-materials ranging from ghee to arroz
con polio and letsh s khrenom e yablokami,
will be imported. As for liquor, if the Village
doesn’t get a licence to sell it they’ll probably
give the stuff away.
All of which hasn’t got Elliott flummoxed.
Organising is his business. A staff-corps man,
trained at Singapore and Quetta, he joined the
A.I.F. in 1940, was successively G 2 Ist Aus-
tralian Corps; G 1 Seventh Divvy; chairman.
Joint Administration Planning H.Q. Land
Forces; B.G.S. H.Q. Second Army; chairman
directing Joint Planning H.Q. Land Forces;
D.A.G., A.H.Q.; i.c. Administration, Southern
Command.
• •
Appointed to command the Seventh
Armored Division, now in Germany,
Major-General J. W. Hackett is an Aus-
tralian with long service in the British
Army. His mother is that celebrated
Australian woman Dr. Deborah Buffer
Murphy, whose many “firsts” include
first passenger to fly from Australia
to England. His grandmother, Grace
Bussell, was the heroine who saved 80
survivors from a wreck off the W.A. coast.
Educated at Geelong Grammar, he was
dux there, subsequently graduating from
Oxford into the Bth Hussars. In War II
he led the 4th Parachute Brigade in the
ill-fated Arnhem business. Badly winged,
he went into hiding, worming his way
out of Holland four months later.
• •
Here sketched, 6ft. of solid bone and
muscle wtih veranda-eyebrows for pro-
tection from tropical sun —English-born
Tom Cole, who has taken some 34,000
crocodile-skins from Papua and New
Guinea in the last five years.
Came to Australia in 1923, went to
western Queensland with sheep, went on
a cattle-station, droving and the rest.
Worked his way through Northern Ter-
ritory to the Kimberleys, became head-
stockman on Wave Hill at the ripe age
of 22, managed 4000-square-miles Bullita
at 23, then horse-breaking for Vesteys,
later taking-up a block on the Wildman
CROCODILE-SKINS
and Alligator Rivers and starting buffalo-
shooting. Bought, for £4OOO, Goodparla,
in the news now as site of the Sliesbeck
uranium-leases.
A few more cattle-stations passed
through his hands before his becoming
caught-up in Sydney, handling croc.-
skins. Demand for skins sent him to
New Guinea, looking for more, and there
he introduced commercial hunting of
crocodiles. Later he took-up 200 acres
of coffee-country in the Wahgi Valley,
5500 ft. above sea-level in New Guinea’s
western highlands, often referred to as
the Kenya of Australia. Exports skins
to America, England and France.
e •
New arrival among Canberra’s
diplomats, P. R. Gunasekara, High Com-
missioner for Ceylon, here presented.
Educated at Royal College, Colombo,
DIPLOMACY
and Cambridge (where he read for
Economics Tripos and graduated M.A.),
and sometime principal of Mahinda
College, South Ceylon, he later enjoyed a
lucrative practice as a barrister in Galle.
He headed a commission into offences
under textile-control during War II and
was later a district-judge at Kurunegala,
his post immediately prior to the Austra-
lian appointment. A keen and able
public-speaker, and a pleasant host, he
hobbies at bridge, and many trophies
testify to his skill in tournament-play.
• •
“S.”: Frank Worsley, of the Endur-
ance (B. 14/3/’56), had a brother in Aus-
tralia, Lance Worsley. He had also been
a seafarer, but when I met him (at The
Bulletin office) he had settled in New-
castle (N.S.W.). He used to talk about
how he had missed going South with
Frank, due to being at sea at the critical
moment; and also of a gas-turbine he
had invented. Two or three years ago I
read of an L. Worsley being drowned at
Newcastle: ffnd that, I take it, was Lance.
• . •
“Alain”: B. S. L. Deane, returned again
as Liberal M.L.A. for Hawkesbury in the
N.S.W. Parliament, didn’t do any cam-
paigning ; he was too busy otherwise.
Most of Bernie’s electorate was flood-
bound, and much of it was temporarily
under water. As emergency flood-services
officer for the district, he spent days on
an Army duck, and what families he
didn’t help to rescue he supplied with
food.
© •
Into the Silence:
At Wau (New Guinea), in a car-crash, Robert
Kerr McLaren, M.C. and Bar; Scot-born,
Light Horseman of War I, veterinary-surgeon
before he got his 2nd A.I.F. number in 1939.
After the Eighth’s surrender in Malaya he
fought on with Chinese guerrillas before
capture, then escaped (with Chinese Johnny
Funk, who was in Melbourne a few years back
to see Diggers he had helped escape). On
Mindanao McLaren removed his own appendix
with a pocketknife in his hand and a mirror on
his knees. Two days later he was chased into
the mountains by a Jap patrol. Finally returned
to Australia by British submarine, he later
parachuted back into Borneo, attached to
Intelligence.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 83, Claude H. Moses,
who, born in N.S.W., arrived in N.Z. when a
child. A Fellow of the International College
of Dentists, and a past-president of the N.Z.
Dental Association, he was active in fostering
the Dominion’s school dental-service.
In Brisbane, at 67, John Hindley, who, 33
years back, built the City Hall’s foundations.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), B. A. Y. Wynne-
Yorke, for 25 years language-master at Christ’s
College, Christchurch, till his retirement in
1950. He was with the East Yorkshires in
World War I.


y,l ?
IAH&& ar£ yoo, Ha RRy r
My AfalL-PoUSrt IS ST ILL U/ST. ZIP
M£ UP l 7 M IN AN
Awful- -Huaßp/. ;/ Sib*
NICE TIMING


ABORIGINALITIES
QUEENSLAND grazier, trying to get
his wool out under near-flood condi-
tions, turned truck and load over. He
and jackeroo climbed out, jacker. shaken
and worried. Said the boss: “We’ll
never have a chance like this again,
Jack. Nip home and get the grease-
gun ! ” —“Suvic.”
* * * *
“Jackaranda Jim”: R. L. Stevenson
said something about it being a more
blessed thing to travel than to arrive.
Let’s try it out . . . Owner of Kalpowar
cattle-station, in York Peninsula, George
Watkin, with three mates, headed 300
head for Mareeba saleyards, 200 miles
away. Three weeks of gluey stock-routes,
the Wet at its wettest, banked-up rivers.
When they were crossing the Normanby
the flood took charge, and Watkin had
a savage bit of battling before he crawled
out on the bank. The following week a
redback-spider tackled him while asleep
—he rode in a semi-coma for several
days afterwards. Got his beef there —and
lost 281 b. of his own on the way.
* * * *
“8.5.”: The Southern European
migrant who lives in our street came past
carrying a pup, and I stopped to admire
it. “Yes, he ees-a da beaut,” said Tony.
“Pura da loaf, y’know.” It took me a
while to work it out. The pup was cer-
tainly pure-bred.
* * * *
“Masta Mak” (N.G.): About 100 miles
north-west of Madang I made a resump-
tion-survey for the Awar aerodrome.
"You've got to take things easy, get things off your mind, relax -”
Local kanakas were recruited for labor,
but I took with me from Lae two experi-
enced survey-boys, one of whom carried
the theodolite and controlled the rear-
end of the tape. We had the chain run
out, and Kokowari sat down with it
against his side. Feeling something move
beside him he shouted curtly to the local
at the other end, “You no ken wokim
chain,” but got the answer, “Chain i
stap!” You could almost see the brain
ticking-over until the reply took effect
and he realised that the tape was not
moving. The yell and mighty leap
took him halfway down the hill,
and it was a good 10 minutes after
I dispatched the surprised death-
adder before Koko was persuaded
back up.
* * *
“C.P.G.”: Nominate as the
nearest living equal to a 4in.
suction-pump a big poddy-calf.
Cocky, just finished milking one
of his cows, was undoing the leg-
rope when he saw the big poddy infiltrate
right up to the bucket. Before he could
get to it, it dived its head in, and in one
mighty indrawn “whoosh” practically
drained the bucket before making a
forced retreat.
“Ceg”: Blessing of the fishing-fleet at
Queenscliffe (Vic.) a few months back
has, so far, not had the desired effect.
In fact, the local Borough Council has
requested the Fisheries and Game Depart-
ment to inquire why for six months or so
the staple catch, baracoota, has been
absent from the Bay. It’s simple. On the
one hand the Church blesses the fleet; on
the other hand the Fisheries and Game
Department protects the porpoise. As
many as 20 fair-sized fish have been
found in the stomach of one porpoise,
which seems enough to make the Church’s
blessing porpoiseless.
* # * *
“Four Threes”: Bricky’s heart melted
every time he and old Crusty passed the
gate-house on their loco. But the girl
on the gates wasn’t responsive. Then
Bricky hit on the idea of a love-offering,
so next time past the gates he threw out
a shovelful of coal for the gate-house fire.
On the next trip the girl only gave a
frozen stare, but Bricky stuck to his guns,
and again out went some more black-
diamonds. It was then Bricky listened to
the outburst of abuse from the girl’s
father, a brawny navvy. It was just bad
luck that the spot chosen for delivering
Bricky’s donations was behind a bush
where the navvy was accustomed to have
a lay-off. Bricky has bought himself a
racing-dog instead.
* * * *
“Bitie”: After my cuckoo-clock fin-
ished announcing 11 p.m. I heard a con-
tinuation of the calls outside my
window. Investigation discovered a
mopoke on a tree. I waited till
the midnight-hour struck; again the
mopoke answered, and was still calling
when I switched out the light.
* * * *
“Lavengra”: Half-a-crown per pig-tail
was offered for all brought in off the
station. A week later Scotty rode in from
the out-station and saw the boss. Fol-
lowed a long tale of how, chasing a pig,
he had taken a fall, the saddle had rolled,
and the horse had escaped with the saddle
swinging under its belly. It was caught
"I really should be on a diet myself."
three days later, exhausted and galled,
the saddle kicked to pieces. Estimated
damage, at least £25. Scotty finished by
producing four pig-tails and asking to
be credited with 10s.
* * * *
“Kelms”: A ring found on the remains
of a seabird washed up on a beach near
Geraldton (W.A.) was sent to the Dom-
inion Museum, and the bird was proved
to be a gannet that had been ringed as
a nestling in New Zealand. It’s the first
authentic case of a gannet making that
trip, although two other birds, the flut-
tering-shearwater and the double-banded
dotterel, occasionally visit our W.A.
coast after nesting across the Tasman.
With many southern-nesting migratory
seabirds there’s a strong suspicion that
the movement is entirely eastwards
around the globe and back to their nest-
ing-sites. Thus a bird found on the W.A.
coast may have travelled eastwards from
islands off the South American coast and
be halfway home. But that doesn’t hold
with the gannet, the fluttering-shearwater,
and the double-banded dotterel. They’re
plentiful on the east and south-east coast
of Australia, and only rarely does one
make the extra journey to W.A., so the
movement is almost certainly westwards.
Strange, because that’s against the pre-
vailing global winds, and there’s a long
hop across the Tasman to start with.
* * * *
“J.P.C.”: Ideas that prompt travellers
to deface natural beauty-spots are, I’m
told, psychological mysteries. The Sister
Rocks, near Stawell (Vic.), are a good
(or bad) example of this, with initials
carved and painted on sheer vertical faces
of some 20ft.-high mammoth boulders.
No sensible steeplejack would attempt
these efforts without the aid of scaffold-
ing, yet the apparently insatiable urge of
vandals seems to overcome all natural
tendencies of self-preservation. Damaged
man-made monuments are often written-
off as acts against society, but in this case
the desecrations must surely approach
some form of destructive insanity. A
warden armed with the old-fashioned
saltpetre-charged gun might be the cure.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Not all avian importa-
tions are a total loss, as some people
suppose. The skylark and song-thrush
are harmless birds and famous vocalists
while the greenfinch and goldfinch both
have pretty songs, with the latter attrac-
tive and useful into the bargain. A black
mark against many immigrants is their
tendency to jostle native birds out of our
gardens. In this kind of competition
their long history of human association
must be an advantage ; indeed, their diffi-
culty would be to exist without man’s
cultivated paddocks and plots. Incident-
ally, the man-wise Indian-dove, despite
its being preyed-upon by domestic cats
and nest-robbing boys, is in extremely
flourishing condition round our coastal
cities and towns, while our native
Columbidoe are almost everywhere in
decline.
1 “Jon Lyn”: “H.C.8.” (B. 29/2/’56)
has got himself in a flamin’ tangle over
Illawarra flame-trees. The real flame is
Brachychiton acerifolia. B. diversifolia is
catalogued by most nurserymen as the
kurrajong, although the N.S.W. Forestry
Commission classifies this noted shade-
and fodder-provider of the dry country as
B. populneus. But what really wounds me
is calling Erythrina crista galli (a speci-
men of which lovely garden exotic I
cherish) a coral-tree! The coral-tree, so
popular on N.S.W. Illawarra dairyfarms,
is E. indica. Another thing, the flame
flowers in early summer, the coral in
winter; and, to keep the records clear,
there"w at least one Australian coral,
Erythrina vespertilio, the batswing-coral.
* * * *
“Bass”: Mutton-fish are well known
along the W-A. coast. Some regard them
as among the tastiest of the shellfish;
others hold that there’s a fortune for the
genius who can incorporate them in
truck-tyres. This is due to the different
manners of preparing them for cooking.
They must be thoroughly pulverised
before they go in the pan —and I mean
pulverised. It’s no good bashing them
with a rolling-pin on the breadboard.
They’re definitely a hammer-and-anvil
job, although you mustn’t hit them hard
enough to send the hammer right through
them. Simply keep up a steady hammer-
ing until the -fibres are all broken. Then
fry them in plenty of fat or olive-oil, and
they’ll be tasty and nourishing. Without
the treatment you can’t cut them with an
axe.
* * * *
“Noah”: Unimaginative names aren’t
restricted to our native flora. In Vic-
toria’s north-west wildflower country,
the Grampians, a borrowed Scottish
name, shows narrow descriptive thought,
and the mountain place-names include
Ladies’ Hat, Elephants’ Hide, Wool-
sacks, The Whale’s Mouth and The
Menagerie. No doubt such names are
the result of impressions, but they were
dull impressions. Placemames, like
nicknames, unfortunately assume per-
manence, and I suppose bottle-brush will
ever continue to grow in the Grampians.
* * * *
TORRENTIAL rains here around the
Balonne, in sou’-west Queensland,
have brought sandflies in myriads. Kan-
garoos, which appear to be least immune
among native animals, have suffered
fatalities; survivors of the onslaughts
have sought refuge in deserted shearing-
sheds. Old bucks sometimes stand chest-
deep in waterholes until nightfall permits
uneasy feeding through grass alive with
mosquitoes.
Even the evil-smelling English fox,
pariah among native game, is harried un-
ceasingly, and mid-afternoon last week
one appeared on our concrete veranda,
where he sat morosely crunching a bone
discarded by the station-dogs and sur-
rounded by swarms of insect-pests.
Mustering sheep along a sandridge, my
horse shied from a great pile of dried
tussocks, from beneath which an old black
sow appeared. A volley from the .38
ended her lamb-killing career, but the
grass-mound, with sandflies swarming
around it, still looked suspicious, and,
dismounted, with gun ready, I had-visions
of an enraged wild-boar rushing forth.
Cautious prodding with a stick pro-
duced alarmed squeaks, and we un-
earthed eight small pigs . . . One animal
at least, seldom credited with any great
intelligence, has its own effective defence
against the cursed insects.
K.W.R.
ROADSIDE GUMS, AUTUMN
Today I come back singing to that road
between eroded banks where giant trees
creep to meet the rain-god on their knees.
Sheathed in moonlight-colored bark, they tower.
.Their falling leaves wreath me in scent and
shower.
But none, aloof and grey, seems to recall
how on this very acre, in such shade,
I came among them stranger and afraid.
Have they forgotten? Or have they decreed
the boon then given I no longer need?
In days when I was often desolate
they were the only solace that I knew.
I walked among them, as their shadows grew,
my heart a dry brown leaf of burnt December,
longing for vpices. . .
O, trees, you must remember
how the Flamenco wind sprang up to dance
with pods for castanets, and lively phrases
stirring dark wet glades and secret places,
locking the saber trees in swift embraces. . .
Till, happy, too,
I laughed with you,
and ever since my heart’s stood at September.
See where long rays of sunlight break
through boughs that lift and stir and shake,
as one by one the grey trees wake —
For now at last my grand old friends remember.
Q.
E. M. ENGLAND.


r pHE narrow road winds tortuously
down Rough Mountain by hairpin-
bend and zigzag across spur and gully.
In one spot it is possible to look down
and see two stretches of road directly
below. Here Sam hit a boulder one
evening in the old tourer and the cranky
steering did the rest, putting him over.
Somehow the bomb kept its wheels on
the steep slope, sliding and lurching, till
it hit the road below at breakneck speed
and took off on the roadway again. Sam
managed to pull it up in a couple of hun-
dred yards. “Y’ know, a bloke can be
dead unlucky,” he told us later. “I was
goin’ the wrong way then, an’ had t’ drive
back two miles before I found a place
wide enough t’ turn round!” —“T.
Doon.”
* * * *
“W.G.D.”: Asked by whom, when, and
where from, camels were introduced into
Australia, I couldn’t say. I do know
that there were working-camels as well as
light-riding ones. Did they come in at
the same time, and from the same place?
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: Perth’s meat-inspectors
think that kangaroo-meat is finding its
way into sausages, and they’re on the
track of it. They’re not against ’roo-meat,
but they say it must be marketed as such,
prepared under suitable conditions, and
certified fit for consumption. Anyone
who knows Westralian ’roo-country will
agree that complying with those require-
ments would be impossible. Anyway, you
don’t get much marketable meat off a
’roo—l’ve shot boomers that yielded less
than 201 b.—and even though sausage-
machine meat is different, there’d be no
fortune in it. There aren’t many ’roos in
sou’-Westralia. I know they’re a pest on
some properties, but I’m speaking as a
Too-shooter, and, anyway, the big greys
are protected in most places south of
Geraldton. I know places up north where
“ When We bought this place it Was advertised as having a Water-frontage .”
I could slaughter ’roos and get paid a
bounty for doing it, but you’d never get
the meat to a market. If only you could
drove them!
# + #
Macquarie”: The cartage on those 50
♦ w 8 ’ sufficient cement to lay them,
fR A B6
ni'fiS V JJ \ 1 ““ 12 2s '
initial cost was even more exorbitant,
Considering that one bag of cement lays
about 225 bricks, the odd two-bob should
have bought the cement required. Fifty
bricks at £2 works out at £4O a thousand,
and not even the deepest-dyed black-
marketeer operating in the mad boom
of 1951 got that price for the very best
texture-bricks. I submit that, over the
years, a nought went astray in the
records; either that or the bricks were
some of the golden ones out of Ted
Dyson’s “Golden Shanty.”
* * * *
“Macnell”: Touching on bulging gun-
barrels, about 1942 we were issued with
our first anti-aircraft ammo fitted with
the VT (variable-time) fuse, which had
a transmitter in its nose to explode the
shell nearing its target. Destroyer at the
time; exercise-shoot to test the sensitive
things. First few rounds all right, then
one hell of a bang, close. That gun-crew
had been known to get one away after the
cease-fire order, but not this time! In-
spection showed the barrel, mid-length,
bulging about 3ft. and blown open in
long shreds. Thenceforward, as captain
of the gun, I made a point of watching
our firing from behind the gun-shield.
* * * *
“Tabba”: What a load of tucker a
kookaburra can hold! Every morning
when I started the tractor out in the
scrub there he was' ogling the ’dozer-
blade. He and the ’dozer took their first
bite together and stayed together all day
That bird had no fear of the great lum-
bering machine. I was clearing firebreaks,
which meant one chain pushing scrub
and one in reverse. Kooka would often
pounce down within a foot of the steel-
tracks and would be grabbing around the
front of the ’dozer almost before I’d got
into reverse gear. I never saw him tackle
a snake, though. Sometimes we dug one
out from under a tree, but he never gave
them more than a cursory glance.
* * * *
“Russ”: An imported blackbird that
has frequented my neck of the woods
for several weeks imitates the calls of
butcher, milkman and other tradesmen.
He even gives the sound of telephone-
and door-bell good enough to mislead
you, and disgusts a pet cockatoo by fling-
ing Cocky’s few pet sentences back in
his face.
* * * *
“Gossipper”: Nephew’s wife asked
Sam, the retired stokehold-hand, to keep
an eye on the wash-boiler fire while she
did some shopping. Sam attacked the
coal-heap with a shovel and fed the
flames. Within half-an-hour he had to
keep the water running to compensate for
evaporation caused by the inferno. When
nephew’s wife returned two hours later
to rinse and hang the wash its whiteness
was something to behold. She was grate-
ful for Sam’s attention, but reckons that
2cwt. of coal a wash is not economic.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: My story of the fright-
ened bird which sheltered on a stockman’s
saddle from a marauding hawk was
no plagiarism (B. 22/2/’56); it actually
occurred in outback Queensland. There,
these quiet little brownish-grey fellows
are ground-lovers, and live mostly in the
cover of grass-tufts, spinifex and brush-
shrubs. They run swiftly when disturbed,
are re i uc t an t to fly, and I’ve never known
them to seek tbe sanctuary of trees, or to
possess a bird-caU or -whistle. They're
f . . Vf , \
l ° o { nmdl y for town-hfe-there the
shanghai and air-rifle have cleaned them
out. To nature-lovers they could no
doubt be easily likened to “desperate
beautiful atoms”; the people of inland
“You’re Wrong , Mick —they shifted that big heap o’ sand this morning .”
Queensland know them simply as “grass-
birds.”
* * * *
“Tabba”: Ever tried selling machinery
to cockies? One big company I used to
represent quoted their tractors without
belt-pulley. “That’s the trouble with
your crowd,” the cockies would say. “So
and So’s quote theirs complete with belt-
pulley. I have to pay extra for yours.”
Later I represented So and So’s, and the
cockies said: “That’s the trouble with
your crowd, they stick a belt-pulley on.
What use have I for that? Such and
Such’s quoted me for a tractor and give
a separate price for the pulley if I want
it.” You just can’t win.
* * * *
“Old Mac”: The first blokes I can
recall humping their blueys were on their
way to the Eungella diggings, and their
swags were nearly all blue. At that time
blankets were obtainable in three colors
—white, red, blue —and the blue one,
with its bright-red blanket-stitching at
each end, was the obvious choice, as it
did not “show the dirt” like white or red.
The original “Tasmanian-bluey” coat was
made from the same sort of heavy blue
blanket-cloth.
“Kelms”: Brumby-chasing
on the coastal plains north of
Perth, I never noticed a horse
show any reluctance to leave
a dried-up waterhole and
head for one that was still
operating (B. 8/2/’56). In
fact, one- way of trapping
them, or at least making sure
we’d know where they were,
was to fence-off all the water-
holes bar one —it was a safe
bet they’d go the rounds till
they got a drink. I’ve seen
brumbies dig in the bed of a
dried-up soak and get a
drink, while cattle thirsted for
water that was only about a
foot down; and they’ll do
even better than that. Once
ran a brumby stallion from
near the Pindar Plains across
to the coast. He headed for
all the rough going he could
find till he hit the beach. I
knew the district well and
there wasn’t a watering-place
for miles, but that stallion
got a drink. He dug down in
the beach-sand just back from
the ocean and drank the water that
welled-in. I knew you could do that
along there and get fresh-water; but I
hadn’t expected a brumby to know it.
* * * *
“Mullum”: In towns subject to recur-
rent flood-damage it is now standard
practice, whenever a flood is imminent
to put a thick coating of grease around
door-jambs of safes and strong-rooms.
Once worked in a country bank in which
this precaution wasn’t completed before
floodwaters overwhelmed it. Later,
when the door was opened, two men were
washed off their feet and the contents of
the strong-room were scattered through-
out the office by the rush of the pent-up
waters.
* * * *
TO garnish their diet, kanakas working
on a Bulolo gold-claim set spring-
wire snares for mumots (bandicoots).
Walking along the water-race next
morning, Mac, the overseer, found one
snare sprung and a dog hanged by the
neck and truly dead.
Mac went to where the boys were
shovelling.
“Husat ’e kisim mumot long trap?” he
asked, jerking a thumb towards the race.
“Husat ’e workim trap?”
Opi, a plump Watut, jumped forward.
“Me workim!” he exclaimed, grinning
and thumping his chest proudly.
“You come,” Mac replied, and took
Opi to the snare to see his reaction.
There Opi froze. He knew the dog.
It belonged to a workmate from another,
and not too friendly, tribe. Bigfella
trouble loomed.
Opi turned slowly back with furrowed
brow and a glisten of sweat. He picked
up his shovel quietly and went to work,
while Mac, to get the whole thing over
quickly, told the rest of the gang there
was a dog strung up.
A bunch downed tools and legged it to
the water-race. The culprit stayed be-
hind and wielded his shovel with record
diligence.
Smelling strife, Mac made sure cff his
ground. Again he asked Opi: Imi
straight, Opi? You putim trap? You
makim disfella dog die finis? Dog bilong
otherfella man?”
Complete change of front. Opi
dropped the shovel and thumped his
chest in vehement denial. “No got! Me
no putim! Me no got savvy long ’im!
True!’’
Near by, Ngai, owner of the deceased,
and still unaware of the dead dog’s
identity, was making fiery comedy of the
affair with his “one-talks” and had been
too busy raising laughs to accompany
the first inspection-party.
“Goodfella fashion long hangimup
dog long neck bilong ’im! O, goodfella
fashion true!”
He doubled up with laughter. The
joke was killing him. The suspense was
killing Opi.
When Ngai and his mob went off to
see the dog, Mac also smelled killing in
the air. Opi and his Watut cobbers
awaited Ngai’s return with sticks, knives
and shovels.
A sudden outcry in the distance
announced shocked identification of the
body. The Ngai faction came back
screaming fight full blast, and Mac
stepped between the parties.
“Orright, Ngai, Opi! Spose all you-
fella fight, me kaikai ’im disfella dog!
Me shootim all otherfella dog bilong
you. Makim altogether die finis!
Savvy?”
Situation savvied. Quick peace
effected. Corpse produced, and that
night all (native) hands had a dip at
the aromatic dog-stew.
Fashion bilong New Guinea.
YBSUL.
THE INITIATES
Rhythmic dust,
Red-clouding the sinewed shanks
Of the male tribe, who wrest the heavy-lidded
stare
From two boys, focus of the dancfe;
Tingeing the turkey-down armlets. Sweat-bare
Chests wealed with grief and manhood
Slip in easy counterpoint to the clack-click;
Quiver the ochre totems in the sun;
And feet, calloused with Haast Bluff walkabout,
flick
Rhythmic dust.
Dripping a strange motionless shadow,
The microphone listens intent, not lost with
head
Bowed, like the semicircle of chorus,
But anxiously feeding the twin spools with
near-dead
Culture. The serious frowns bend
Under broad-brimmed hats, check the volume
and tone
And flap at flies. Not noted
At all are the amused smiles of naked stock-boys
in their own
Rhythmic dust.
S.A.
IAN V. HANSEN.


LET YOUR HOLDEN DEALER SHOW YOU WHY
HOLDEN
is 4 times more popular
than any other utility
m
m
pp^
immiiiiiEi
niiiiiiiin
miiiimmimmimiimim
HfS Official registrations recently
published show that Holden utility
sales for 1955 totalled 16,220 com-
pared with 3,794 for the next most popular
model. What better proof could there be
of the extra satisfaction and value that
Holden gives.
Holden is the only utility that combines:
6 cyl., 21 H.P. “ square ” engine performance
• Outstanding dependability and petrol
economy—many owners report 30 m.p.g.
• Passenger car comfort and ease of handling
—turning circle is only 37 feet. • Generous
pay load area —75 f100r length and
56-13/16' width. • Nation-wide availability
of specialised service and low-priced, factory-
guaranteed parts. • High resale value.
• Low first cost of £B5O plus tax.
Your Holden Dealer invites you to
accept an invitation—at no obligation what-
ever—to drive Holden Utility. Learn first
hand how flexible and powerful it is—
particularly under load. Get the facts on
how much Holden can save you in first
cost, running economy and resale value.
If you can't call at your Dealer's showrooms
for a demonstration , ring, and he will take
a Holden utility to you.
Owner praises HOLDEN
“. . . Our first utility purchased last year
has covered approximately 21,000 miles
and has covered that mileage without any
trouble or inconvenience through break-
downs etc. Replacement parts have been
nil and the economy is excellent, and with
this in mind we have no hesitation in
recommending Holden for the Building
Trade . . .”
Fricker Bros. Limited, Carrington Street,
Adelaide. S.A.
HOLDEN * Australia’s Own Utility
List Price £B5O plus tax. *Registered Trade Mark
Australia's Own Panel Van. List Price £865 plus tax
Convenient GMAC hire purchase available. Air Chief car radio is specially designed for Holden.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY * MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden dealers throughout Australia
0197
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
&'MSJ
Thanks to
NEO-
-15 A Iv KE lil'j
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
•when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
WvitG toddy for FREE LITERATURE
babeere DISTRIBUTION CO.
XDept. 3i), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSONS
dSUHJMK
TRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
nßtn OFFICK AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS C : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
"ONE FOR THE ROAD"
nrAXING expenditure on
A luxuries in order to get the
money to pay for public works
has today some poetic justice in
it. The heirs to the new order
in Australia—a new order in
which the 40-hour week is the
keystone, with a governmental
Budget policy of full-employ-
ment and social-security of
almost equal structural im-
portance have palpably not
honored their obligations to do
a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay in order to provide the sub-
stance of the new order. Nor
have they shown any great desire
to take the place of the investing
class which they have largely
supplanted in the redistribution
of incomes that has followed
full-employment. Consequently
there has been too much con-
sumer-spending and not enough
investment; not enough produc-
tion and not enough saving,
Hence the poetic (or economic)
justice in deriving an investment
element out of luxury-spending,
So the boys in the bar who
say “One for the road” may in
truth be having one for the road
—the main-road outside. (The
additional excise on beer is 2s. Bd.
a gallon, equal to 2d. a lOoz.
glass.) But the road will more
directly benefit from the extra
3d.-a-gallon petrol tax the
States will get a penny of it,
making Bd. a gallon altogether
allocated for State roads, of
which 40 p.c. must be spent on
rural roads.
Value of the Remedy
The Menzies proposals have
short-term value only; their
merit rests in what they can do
to persuade or assist the working
population to increase produc-
tion.
They will tend to halt inflation
by overcoming the necessity to
create new money by issuing
Treasury bills to finance public
works.
Thus the people will be given
some further time in which to put
their own affairs in order and
to satisfy their own economic
consciences by doing a fair day’s
work for a fair day’s pay. That,
as a people, they are certainly
not doing today, however much
extra some others in the com-
munity may have to do as a con-
sequence.
High production-costs, as well
as inadequate productivity, can
only be met by increased output
by each person in return for his
or her pay-envelope.
indirect laxes
Under the supplementary
Budget, sales-tax on passenger-
cars goes up from 16f per cent, to
30 p.c. On commercial vehicles
from 12! p.c. to 16f p.c. Goods,
other than cars, previously taxed
at 16! P-0., now 25 p.c. Spirits,
excise raised 15s. 6d. a gallon,
Tobacco, up 4s. a pound (3d. an
oz.), cigarettes, 6s. a pound (3d.
for packet of 20), cigars, ss. 6d.
a pound.
The 10 p.c. sales-tax categories
and most of the 12! P-c. items
stay as they are.
Company-tax is being raised
by Is. in the £ to a maximum of
Bs. in the £.
That, in outline, represents the
sting in the supplementary
Budget presented by the Prime
Minister on Wednesday night,
The aim is to raise by these
means £ll5 million in a full year.
1 Cash Deficit
1 Already, though the Federal
Government has budgeted for
a revenue surplus of £49 million,
it appears as though it will be
faced with a cash deficit of £3O
million for the present financial
year. This is largely because of
the state of the loan-market,
which has thrown upon the
Commonwealth the necessity for
providing out of its own
resources not less than £67
million for State public works
and the like. On top of this there
was a failure of a conversion
loan in December last year. It
is hoped to meet all or part of the
£3O million deficit out of the
indirect taxes levied as from
March 15.
Up to December 31 last the
Government had to find short-
term finance for a half-year
revenue deficit of £7B million and
a loan deficit of £27 million. This
involved the discounting of
Treasury-bills with the central
bank, among other expedients.
The revenue-deficit will rectify
itself during the present half of
the year, but the problems of
the Loan Fund seem likely to be
with us for a long time to come.
Taxing for “Works”
During the current year, which
ends on June 30, the Loan
Council borrowing programme
amounted to £l93£ million,
which comprised £l9O million
for the States and £3£ million
for emergency wheat-storage.
Alongside some such figure
in 1956-57 the present increases
in excise, sales-tax, company-tax,
etc., are expected to raise £ll5
million in a full year. It
can be said that all tjbis
amount will go to the States
to finance their public works
(though the Federal Government
will get all the kicks that go with
the collection of it). The loan-
market will be tried for the rest,
no doubt at a higher interest-
rate. But Commonwealth public
works, as of yore, will be paid
for out of revenue. The estimate
for the current year in this regard
is £lO4 million, including Snowy
Mountains and P.M.G. expendi-
ture.
Constitutional Inhibitions
In its Constitutionally - in-
hibited way, the Federal Govern-
ment is endeavoring to cope with
what is largely a physical (or
industrial) problem by financial
means. Lack of adequate pro-
ductivity, which The Bulletin
has so long emphasised, and
which Prime Minister Menzies in
his March 14 speech acknow-
ledged, is the fundamental pro-
blem in Australia today. As Mr.
Menzies said, the attack on the
productivity problem was the
positive, as opposed to the nega-
tive, of economic action.
“To put it quite clearly,” Mr.
Menzies said, “we canmot have
increased development and in-
creased individual consumption
without increased individual pro-
duction, saving and investment.”
But in the short-run the most
effective way to relieve the infla-
tionary pressure in Australia was
to reduce the volume of pur-
chasing-power which created it.
Whether the levying of tax is
on luxury-spending will have all
the benefits hoped for remains
to be seen. It should certainly
take spending-power from
luxury-spenders and convert it
into public works, at the same
time discouraging the manufac-
ture of luxury goods. It should
also obviate the necessity to
create new money in order to
pay for works. It all should have
an anti-inflationary effect in this
way. But what effect it will have
on the cost of living is some-
thing to speculate over. The in-
creased cost of petrol may have
a general (if small) effect on
living costs. Some of the other
items may not be important.
And, in the end, productivity
per unit—male or mechanical-
must be increased considerably.
Interest Rates
'THOUGH no mention of the
Commonwealth borrowing-
rate was made by Mr. Menzies
in his financial - emergency
speech, bank-overdraft rates will
be allowed to rise to an aver-
age of 5| p.c., with a maximum
of 6 p.c., from the previous
maximum rate of 5 p.c.
The rate paid on fixed-
deposits will be raised by an all-
round 1 p.c.
The £ll5 million a year which
it is proposed to raise by the new
taxes should reduce the need for
public borrowing considerably.
Overseas Trade
A IDED by last year’s import-
cuts, good seasons for
primary-produce exports, and by
the tax on motor-cars and
petrol, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment hopes to achieve a
balance between imports and
exports by the middle of this
year.
Increased Company-lax
T'HE raising of the rate of
income-tax on companies by
a shilling, making it a maximum
of Bs. in the £, is a controversial
item in the Federal supple-
mentary Budget.
Mr. Menzies said that the
weight of company-taxation was
undoubtedly much lower in Aus-
tralia than in overseas countries
like the U.K., Canada and the
U.S.A.
Actually, in Canada, the rate
is the equivalent of 9s. in the £l,
against the new maximum rate
of Bs. in Australia. But in
Canada there is a 20 p.c. tax-
rebate on dividend-incomes, so
that on distributed profits the
burden of tax in Canada could
be well below the Australian
rate.
However, the main objection
to company-tax in Australia is
the anomalies that exist in it.
It is double-taxation without
rebate. No allowance is made
for the inadequacy of deprecia-
tion provisions of past years in
meeting present-day replace-
ment-costs. Capital-erosion is
hastened by the hard-and-fast
depreciation - allowances under
the income-tax law.
In his Budget-speech of
August 24, 1955, Sir Arthur
Fadden spoke of the technical
merits of the recommendations
of the Huime committee in
respect of depreciation on fixed
and wasting assets. The pro-
posals had “the merit of com-
bining in a skilful way a number
of diverse requirements.” But
because the level of investment
in plant and buildings was then
“too high for general stability,”
the Treasurer decided that “the
wisest course is to defer action
at this time.”
Perhaps, now that the ls.-in-
the-£ increase in flat-rate
company-tax has been decided
on, draining £3O million (in a
full year) away from companies,
the time may be ripe to recon-
sider the many anomalies in
company-taxation and finance
which make the future of private
enterprise a great deal more
precarious than anyone in
Canberra seems to suppose.
The Sharemarkets
CJHAREMARKET reaction to
the anti - inflation tax-
programme (including increased
company-tax) and the higher
overdraft rates was quite mild.
Though excise has gone up 2d.
a lOoz. glass of beer (2s. Bd. a
gallon), Tooth shares, for
instance, kept around 50s. The
scrip had slipped from its 1956
“high” of 535. 3d. some weeks
prior to the “supplementary
Budget.”
That was the general pattern
of the market.


FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1265.12C
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest leatures
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD..
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Ansi.)
avv
m
Your son's future
may depend largely
on his ability
to manage his
money efficiently.
Start him on the
right road early
in life by giving
him an A.N.Z.
Cheque Account |
now. Allow him
to see for himself
the cumulative
effect of small
transactions,
and encourage him
to make a confidant
of his A.N.Z.
Bank Manager.
r.v u v a
ifi • ■ •gM
r -’V , - -.a
- AvLi;a?
\/A
.. \i,
■V s;
$ v^ippl
A-N-Z
* * *
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 800 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia and
New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
1ANZ.81.2428
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
CANE- ITE
Acousti-tile ceilings-
QUIET. BEAUTIFUL
V N
-W
‘ " - j 7-4 -
Architect: Ivor Lloyd
Look at the ceiling of this
modern Oatley, N.S.W.,
home. Cane-ite Acousti-
Tile is beautiful and func-
tional, fits in with all
modern decor. The 484
sound traps in each 12-
inch square tile cut all
irritating noise by 65% !
And, of course, noise
reduction promotes greater
concentration and effici-
ency, better health. Cane-
ite Acousti-Tile can be
installed easily over, exist-
ing walls and ceilings.
Repainting does not reduce
its noise absorption quali-
ties. Call your nearest
CSR representative for free
acoustical advice.
A
CANE-ITE
cousti-tile
FOR NOISE REDUCTION AND ACOUSTICAL CORRECTION
Made by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO*
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at Sydney, Wagga, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Adelaide, Pprth.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
T>Y raising its long-term
borrowing rate to 4| per
cent, the Maoriland Government
has met the demands of the
market. It had no option, within
the boundaries of sound finance,
but to do so.
The record size of the £5O
million conversion loan, re-
inforced by heavy future commit-
ments and by investors’ growing
insistence on a more adequate
reward, left no doubt about that.
Of even more importance,
economic stresses made the adop-
tion of higher interest-rates
imperative.
The rise in the Government’s
borrowing-rate will be part of
a general upward adjustment of
interest, which can be expected to
have a tonic, stabilising effect on
the economy.
The only puzzle is why the
Government resisted for so long
the cogent arguments for higher
rates.
Cheap Money Outmoded
Cheap money, reasonable and
desirable in the early post-
depression years and during the
war, has long outlived its use-
fulness.
In the post-war boom, con-
tinuing into recent years of over-
full employment, it has merely
had the undesirable effect of
encouraging spending at the ex-
pense of essential saving. It has
been a potent factor in the un-
healthy expansion of the money-
supply through excessive credit-
creation, resulting in a disequi-
lubrium which has made itself
manifest in the dangerous deple-
tion of overseas reserves, even in
a time of high export returns.
The futility of attempting, by
means of the credit-squeeze, to
make money scarce, while at the
same time holding it rigidly to
an artificially cheap price, has
long been apparent. The law of
supply and demand may be
ignored for a time, but only at
the high cost of economic distor-
tion.
Maoriland’s immediate task is
to bring savings up to the level
of investment. It has lagged far
behind other countries, facing
a similar problem, in adopting
higher interest-rates as a natural
and necessary adjunct to direct
controls. Saving, hindered by
Government interference with
the market mechanism, would
ultimately be enforced anyhow,
in a disorderly and painful
manner, by the natural, irresist-
ible pressure of inflationary
forces.
Thrift
Higher interest-rates will, in
a general sense, encourage thrift.
Dearer money will bring capital
expenditure under closer
scrutiny, and, in conjunction
with the credit-squeeze, may help
in securing the nationally
desirable allocation of available
resources.
Investors, exhorted into sub-
scribing to recent Government
loans, have had the dishearten-
ing experience of seeing them
come on the market at an im-
mediate discount. Last Novem-
ber, by undersubscribing the £lO
million national development
loan by £300,000, they gave the
Government notice that they had
had enough.
It was clearly unthinkable this
year to ask them again to accept
in the name of patriotism an im-
mediate capital-loss caused by
the Government’s adherence to
a policy which was patently
damaging to the economy.
New and Old
The new long-term rate of 4f
per cent, is a shade above latest
market yields. The short-term
rate of 4 \ per cent, is a little
below market yields, but in-
vestors are unlikely to quibble.
The Government will naturally
want to get as much of the
money as possible into long-
term stock, particularly in view
of its heavy debt-redemption
programme in forthcoming years.
The 1955 national-develop-
ment loan rates were:
11-year term, 4 per cent., issue-price
£99, effective yield, £4 2s. 4d.
per cent.
3-year term, 3| per cent., issue-price
£99 10s., effective yield,
£3 18s. lOd. per cent.
The loan was on offer when
comparable long-term stocks
were showing a return of
£4 7s. 6d. per cent. Since then
the market yield has continued to
rise, but lately has been rather
irregular.
The 4f per cent, rate now
offered is the highest for many
years. It represents a rise of If
per cent, since 1950, when the
3 per cent, loan was issued at a
slight discount.
The Government has no doubt
satisfied itself that the terms it
is now offering are attractive
enough to make the huge con-
version operation a complete
success. It could not afford any-
thing less than complete success
in view of its need for new
money and in view of the £2B
million of internal debt maturing
next financial year.
The present operation is per-
haps not quite so formidable as
it at first appears. Of the total
of £5O million, £2O million is
held by State departments and
presents no problem, while the
Government is probably able to
control a fairly substantial por-
tion of the remaining £3O million.
In deciding to include two
later option issues in the
present conversion-operation the
Government has no doubt been
influenced by the desirability of
leaving the decks clear for a new
national development loan later
in the year.
The decision to issue the loan
at par is wise. The practice of
issuing at a discount was not
attractive to . small investors,
many of whom did not under-
stand it.
It is not expected that the rise
in the Government-loan rate will
have any material effect on cur-
rent prices of marketable
securities. They have already
been discounted in line with
tighter money conditions, which
the official Government rate now
reflects.
Overseas Funds
Maoriland’s overseas exchange-
balance for January showed, as
expected, a slight improvement.
There was a surplus of £3.8
million; against a deficit of
£2.2 million in December and a
surplus of £2.9 million in
January, 1955. Compared with
the corresponding month of the
previous year exports were £3.7
million up and Government im-
ports were £413,000 down.
Private imports, however, rose
by £144,000. Subsequent im-
provement is revealed by net
overseas assets figures, Which at
February 15 had recovered to
£74 million from the low point
of £62.6 million.
The full effects of the credit-
squeeze have not yet filtered
through, but they are expected to
show up distinctly in the Feb-
ruary import figures and to have
a heavier impact in following
months. The pressure is on
now, tax-payments having given
an extra twist to the screw.
Overdraft Restraint
During March, tax-payments
will drain £5O million of the
trading-banks’ cash away into
the Public Account. To ease the
pressure on the banks, reserve
ratios have been temporarily
reduced from 26 per cent, of
demand liabilities and per
cent, of time-liabilities to 7 per
cent, and 3 per cent, respectively.
The ratios will be increased again
within a few weeks, and both the
Reserve Bank and the trading
banks have made it plain that
there will be no easing of
restraint on overdrafts.
Meantime, while the Govern-
ment is squeezing the business
community, it is not exactly
squeezing itself. Net Govern-
ment borrowing from the
Reserve Bank and the trading
banks at January was _ £92.7
million, nearly £l3 million more
than it was a year previously.
It will, of course, be reduced by
the inflow of tax-payments.
Finance Minister Watts, com-
menting on the Public Account,
has predicted that, for the year
to March 31, receipts and expen-
diture will be reasonably close
to Budget figures, though Cus-
(iContinued on page 17)


i
URR
U
33-39 HUNTER ST..
SYDNEY.
Offices at
TAM WORTH and
ORANGE.
TRUST AND AGENCY
FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £73,000,000.
Has your Executor these qualifications?
The Executor and Trustee of your Will must have
certain qualifications if he is to administer your Estate
in the best interests of your dependents.
(1) He must have wide experience in the solution of
business, financial and other problems. (2) He must
be of absolute probity. (3) He must be accessible at
all reasonable times and (4) He must never grow too
old for sound judgment.
You cannot find all these qualifications in a private
person but you CAN find them in Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
If you would have particulars of the services offered
by the Company, ring B 0377, or write, and make an
appointment A Senior Officer will gladly supply the
information you desire.
" DIRECTORS: " "
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT; SAMUEL HORDERN;
JOHN W. DUNLOP.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others,
Administrator, etc.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LIMITED.
Associate Directors, in addition to those mentioned at left:
WAKBBN D. MCDONALD, Vice-Chairman; S. G. MeFABLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.
TT is a measure of the extraordinary
prosperity of J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.,
that of its present issued capital of
£722,537, bonus-issues of shares have
accounted for £615,393, that reserves
now exceed capital by £3215, and that
only once in the last 28 years have divi-
dends been less than 15 p.c.—in 1931,
when the distribution was 10 p.c.
James Fielding formed the company in
1910 to take over the business which he
had acquired five years before from the
near-bankrupt Sydney Cardboard Co.
The public was only moderately inter-
ested, and the co.’s initial offer of 8000
£1 shares was undersubscribed by £2473.
A three-story factory-building was
erected at Buckingham-street (Sydney),
the co.’s present headquarters, and the
output of cardboard boxes and cartons
increased. In 1914 the company installed
the first corrugating-machine in this
country, and, during World War I, when
supplies of tinplate were scarce and dear,
the business developed rapidly. Expan-
sion inter-State followed the war, and
factories were set up by associate com-
panies in Victoria and Tasmania.
Since World War II the co. has erected
a modern factory on 16 acres of land at
Kingsgrove to which it plans to transfer
eventually all activities from the Buck-
ingham-street premises.
Over the years Fielding has followed
a “regular programme of investment” in
shares and real-estate which have contri-
buted very usefully to earnings.
Last term, after making undisclosed
provision for depreciation and taxation,
net income from all sources amounted to
£187,021, an increase of £35,949:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Y Dividends serves, serves.
£ £> & £>
1948.. 82,568 22J p.c. = 59,050 23,518 558,276
Reserves capitalised, £22,194 .. 536,082
Dividends forfeited shares, £2 .. 536,084
1949.. 86,124 22\ p.c. = 62,940 22,184 558,268
From tax provision, £50,000 .. 608,268
Profit sale assets, £56,621 .. .. 664,889
Assets revalued, £422,559 .. .. 1,087,448
To property provision, £2,421 .. 1,085,027
1950.. 106,778 41 Jp.e.*= 119,268 1,072,537
Reserves capitalised, £422,559 .. 649,978
1951.. 118,470 15 p.c. = 107,949 10,521 660,499
1952.. 119,833 15 „ ~108,386 11,447 671,946
1963.. 114,594 15 „ ~ 108,977 5,617 677,563
1954.. 151,072 Hi „ „ 127,172 23,900 701,463
1965.. 187,021 22i „ „ 162,732 24,289 725,752
* Includes 18£ p.c. special dividend.
Dividend on ordinary capital was lifted
to 22i p.c., of which 5 p.c. was a 50th-
anniversary special bonus. Employee-
shares, which are held by about 60 p.c. of
the co.’s regular employees and account
for £18,272 of the capital-figure, received
a maximum 25 p.c. Since 1951 all
employees have participated in a mea-
sured weekly production-bonus.
Balance-sheet figures, in their published
form, don’t give much information, but
the overall view is that of a very com-
fortable financial position:
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £718,116 £720,418 £722,537
Reserves .. 677,563 701,463 725,752
Creditors, etc. .. 246,688 545,803 437,048
Staff fund .. 8,317 8,092 7,513
Final diva. .. 54,135 71,983 80,908
£1,704,819 £2,047,259 £1,973,758
Freeholds .. 755,951 931,032 904,051
Plant .. .. 220,739 171,639 222,939
Stock .. .. 166,728 204,037 199,153
Debtors, cash, etc. 661,401 740,551 647,615
£1,704,819 £2,047,259 £1,973,758
During the year about as much was in-
vested in new plant and machinery,
chiefly for the carton-printing and box
departments, as was written-off freeholds
and retained out of earnings, so a reduc-
tion of £99,909 in current liabilities was
matched almost equally by a fall in
stocks, and the total of debtors, cash,
investments, etc. The surplus of current
assets over liabilities on September 30
was £321,299, an increase of only £2089
on the previous term.
At 85s. (755. 6d. a year ago) the £1
ords. return 4.1 p.c. on the basis of a
22\ p.c. div. Net asset-cover is 40s. a
share on conservative book-values.
O. T. Lempriere and Co., Ltd.
r pHE stock-in-trade of this old-estab-
lished metal-merchant and -processor
comprises basic raw materials for a
number of important secondary indus-
tries, including the engineering, building,
printing and paint trades. Originally
only a minor part of the activities of
the partnership (as it then was) as a
general merchant, the trade in ores with
European merchants became its principal
business following development in the
latter half of last century of the silver-lead
deposits in the Zeehan district of Tas-
mania. Operations were later extended
to Kalgoorlie, Broken Hill and the min-
ing centres of North Queensland.
During World War I ore-shipments
were disrupted, and to keep the business
alive the firm turned to processing ores
locally. Alloy-manufacturing was also
commenced, and in 1923, plant was
erected at Alexandria in N.S.W. for the
smelting of tin-concentrates. Other
metallurgical processes and manufactures
were afterwards added, and the co. has
become increasingly a manufacturer.
Public interest in the company dates
from the issue in 1949 of 60,000 5 p.c.
£1 prefs., at par, and 60,000 £1 ords. at
a premium of 10s. a share. Paid capital
then amounted to £240,000, and no other
shares have been issued since.
The following table summarises O. T.
Lempriere’s trading-results as a public
company:
Parent Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividend. N serves, serves.*
5 p.c. Pref. Ord.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £69 .. .. 76,935
Share-issue expenses, etc., £4723 .. 71,212
1949.. 20,351 760 8 p.c. = 9,800 9,801 81,013
Loss sale assets, £l4O .. .. 80,873
1960.. 27,390 3,000 8 p.c. = 14,400 9,990 90,863
Profit sale assets, £126 .. .. 90,989
1951.. 65,165 3,000 12 p.c. = 21,600 30,565 121,554
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Loss sale assets, £ll .. .. .. 121,543
To stock-fluctuation provision, £30,000 91,543
1952.. 64,482 3,000 12 p.c. = 21,600 39,982 131,425
Loss sale assets, £639 .. .. .. 130,786
Note-issue expenses, etc., £2710 .. 128,076
1953.. 57,593 3,000 12 p.c. = 21,600 32,993 161,069
Profit sale assets, £2214 .. .. 163,283
To stock-fluctuation provision, £25,000 138,283
1954.. 42,612 3,000 12 p.c. = 21,600 18,012 156,295
Profit sale assets, £2917 .. .. 159,212
Assets revalued, £174,613 .. .. 333,725
To stock fluctuation-provision, £25,000 308,725
1955.. 64,572 3,000 12 p.c. = 21,600 29,972 338,697
* Subject to goodwill, £50,000 at 30/6/’55.
Earnings have been enough to pay the
pref. div. and show a return on paid
ordinary capital of 16 p.c., in 1949, 13.6
p.c., 29 p.c., 34.2 p.c., 30.3 p.c., 22 p.c.
and 28.7 p.c. up to 1955. Last term’s
consolidated net £54,572 remained after
provision of £18,842 (£15,796 in 1954)
was made for depreciation on fixed
assets, and £33,666 (£25,000) for income-
tax but before appropriating £25,000 to
metal-price fluctuation-provision. Min-
ing operations of the subsidiary, Point
Lookout Antimony Mines Pty., Ltd.,
which have been carried on at a loss for
several years, were suspended during the
year, and it is reported to be engaging in
trading activities with profitable results.
The co., which became a wholly-owned
subsidiary last year, presents separate
accounts. Net profit of £7388 was re-
corded in 1955, which reduced accumu-
lated losses to £39,404, but no specific
provision has been made for the loss
anticipated on the sale of mining-plant.
This could amount to £50,000; however,
directors say it will be more than covered
by the reserve created last year when
book-values of the parent’s N.S.W. and
Victorian freeholds were written-up
£174,513.
Balance-sheet figures disclose a com-
fortable state of finances:
Consolidated Balance-sheet,
Paid capital— 1953. 1954. 1955.
Pref £60,000 £60,000 £60,000
Ord 180,000 180,000 180,000
Reserves .. .. 161,069 156,295 338,697
Stock-fluctuation
provision .. 30,000 65,000 80,000
Notes .. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Overdraft .. .. 78,568 210,349 228,571
Creditors .. 163,674 180,049 224,222
Tax provision .. 37,799 31,785 31,807
Final div. .. 15,900 15,900 15,900
£827,010 £989,378 £1,259,197
Freehold .. .. 62,502 73,760 271,448
Plant .. .. 67,082 85,168 128,914
Shares subsidiary . 400 400 901
Shares other cos. 4,226 4,226 4,226
Stock .. .. 379,883 443,228 482,849
Debtors, etc. .. 262,176 331,849 370,041
Cash .. .. 741 757 818
Intangibles .. 50,000 60,000 60,000
£827,010 £989,378 £1,269,197
At June 30 current assets of £713,083,
which exclude advances to the subsi-
diary, exceeded liabilities by £212,583,
as against £242,802 on the previous bal-
ancing-date. Main movements during
the term were the writing-up of assets, a
net increase of £43,746 in plant, and
£42,516 rise in book-debts carried, fin-
anced by reduced stocks (down £10,379),
and bank- and trade-credit (up £18,222
and £44,173 respectively).
The £lOO,OOO issue of 6 p.c. deposit-
notes matures in April, 1959, but before
that noteholders will be allowed to
convert their notes into ordinary shares
on payment of a premium of 7s. 6d. a
share.
Net asset-support for the £1 ords. is
525. 3d. and for the 5 p.c. cum. prefs.
£8 16s. 3d. At 375. 6d. the ordinaries
yield 6.4 p.c. on a 12 p.c. dividend, more
than twice-covered by profits in 1955.
The prefs. are quoted to give the same
yield at 15s. 6d.
Anderson Meat Industries, Ltd.
'THE well-established “Anderson’s
sausages” company will undertake
further expansion from an issue of ordin-
ary capital to shareholders who were on
the register on' March. 13. The new £1
shares will be issued in the ratio of one
for every five held, and are payable in
full on application by April 20.
The co. has built-up extensive interests
in New South Wales since 1918, when the
business was first begun. Its meatworks
at Wallangarra (on the N.S.W.-Queens-
land border) are one of the biggest pri-
vately owned abattoirs in the State, and
its sausage and smallgoods division in
Sydney is another big producer. The
subsidiary, Anderson’s Sausages, operates
a number of meatworks under lease on
the north coast of N.S.W., including sub-
stantial premises owned by Norco Co-op.
at Byron Bay. Since 1954 another sub-
sidiary, Byron Whaling Co., has operated
the only shore-based whaling station in
N.S.W. It has a yearly quota of 120
whales. In 1955 the results of this co.
were described as “most successful.”
Meat-exporting to the United King-
dom reverted to a more competitive
trader-to-trader basis during the year,
but, notwithstanding this and bad floods
in February and March, results for 1955
were the best recorded. After charging
£39,458 (£25,778, 1954) depreciation, and
providing £78,765 (£61,000) taxation, net
profit of the group rose to £111,625, an
increase of £13,228 on the previous year,
and equal to 21.4 p.c. on capital, as com-
pared with 19.3 p.c. in 1954:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividend — serves, serves.
1953 •• 97,344 Nil 97,344 105,976
Formation expenses, £3431 .. .. 102,545
Goodwill written-off, £1575 .. .. 100,970
Unexplained reduction, £3BO .. .. 100,590
1954 .. 98,397 10 p.c. = 51,050 47,347 147,937
Capital profit, £2720 150,657
Unexplained reduction, £1506 .. 149,151
1955 .. 111,625 10 p.c. =T5T,050 60,575 209,726
(Of the £97,344 earned in . 1953, £81,120
was earned before Anderson Meat Indus-
tries took over the private companies and
was carried to capital reserves.) Dividends
of 10 p.c. forecast in the memorandum
covering the sale of shares in 1953 have
been well cleared in the last two years,
and directors are confident that the 10
p.c. distribution will be maintained.
Trading so far this term has been more
than satisfactory compared with corres-
ponding periods, they say.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a consider-
able expansion of business:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1953. 1954. 1955.
Paid capital .. £508,800 £510,600 £510,600
Reserves .. .. 105,976 147,937 209,726
Outside interests .. 1,123
Mortgage .. .. 29,500
Overdraft .. 118,565 82,656 318,182
Creditors .. .. 151,734 100,961 162,338
Tax-provision .. 52,700 61,280 98,996
Pinal div. .. 25,530 26,530
£937,776 £928,964 £1,355,995
Freehold .. 147,044 149,502 233,282
Leasehold .. 13,778 13,411 8,388
Plant, etc. .. 224,122 254,829 424,682
Stock .. .. 230,436 220,821 286,705
Debtors .. .. 154,703 206,407 314,286
Advances .. 146,356 05,227 63,843
Suspense account.. 9,801
Intangibles .. 3,431
Cash .. .. 11,905 18,767 15,008
£937,775 £928,904 £1,355,995
The co. carried an extra £107,879 debtors,
£65,884 stocks and spent £248,610 net on
additions to fixed assets, including
modernisation of the smallgoods divi-
sion, financed from earnings and by the
addition of £326,403 to its outside debt.
Within the next 12 to 18 months it is
planned to double the numbers of live-
stock treated at Wallangarra. This meat-
works has strategic rail-connections with
Queensland and N.S.W., and is better
suited to development than the Byron
Bay works. The meatworks at Karumba,
in Queensland, was disposed of last year.
Ex rights, the £1 stock is at 295., yield-
ing 6.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
rights at 10s. would give a slightly lower
yield when fully-paid.
Lanes Motors (Holdings), Ltd.
T ANES Motors (Holdings) has cele-
brated the rise in sales-tax on motor-
vehicles by announcing an interim div.
of 15 p.c., which compares with interim
of 10 p.c. and final of 20 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term.
Recent announcements of plans by
motor-companies to expand their manu-
facturing facilities in Australia sug-
gest that it may not be long
before temporary problems simi-
lar to those recently facing Ameri-
can and British car-makers are ex-
perienced by their counterparts here.
Already for some time now the market
for most durable consumer-goods (re-
quiring a less formidable investment of
capital for their production than in the
motor-industry) has been very well
supplied.
Motor-vehicle distributors are also
likely to be affected. But, while doubts
may exist about future prospects, there
can be no question that over the five
years that Lanes Motors has been a
public co. shareholders have done ex-
ceedingly well. Since 1950 dividends have
averaged 22 p.c. a year, and, for original
buyers of the co.’s ord. shares at their
issue-price of 12s. 6d., there is an added
capital-gain of approximately ss. a share
on current market-values.
Consideration for the £645,000 share-
capital of the proprietary concerns taken
over by the holding company in 1950
was £1,040,535, paid in cash. Then, before
the public was invited to subscribe for
628,000 ss. ords. at a premium of 150
p.c., the co. issued £BO,OOO 5 p.c. pref. and
£418,000 ord. capital, at par. After the
public-issue paid capital became £655,000.
Lanes distributes, in Victoria
and the N.S.W. southern Riverina,
Chrysler, Plymouth and De Soto cars,
Fargo and British Fargo trucks, Morris
and M.G. cars, Morris commercial-
vehicles and marine-engines. The co. also


DAVIES A COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
LIFE ASSURANCE
evv Ice
FOR
<SU
YEARS
t \ e
a-.:
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since 1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
FaltJi in Ihc
Future
I like Mr. Dag Hammarskjoeld’s description
of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Project as
“A translation of Australia’s pioneering spirit into
modem terms.”
In one crisp phrase the United Nations’ Sec-
retary-General has summed it up in a way that
cannot fail to stimulate our Faith in Australia.
It comes well from one in his distinguished
position, for the Snowy project is a glowing example
of how our national expansion is being quickened
by the work of people arriving here from other
lands.
The Snowy is the biggest single work we have
ever attempted. Because of the special conditions
of height and stream that permit it, it could be the
biggest thing of its kind we will attempt in this
century.
At an estimated cost of £420 million, it is
planned to provide electrical power for great indus-
try; 17 power stations; storage of water in four main
dams, and wider irrigation of the Murrumbidgee-
Murray area; 84 miles of tunnels, and at least 400
miles of racelines.
And the work is advanced as it is because tech-
nical skills and labour have been added to it by
people new to this country.
The over-all contribution of newcomers to
Australian production is on a broad canvas. Their
high proportion in the extra labour force available
to Newcastle and Port Kembla has helped in the
dramatic development of the iron and steel industry
over the last six years.
Others have gone into factories, on to farms,
into seasonal work in primary industries.
More than 75 per cent, of the number by which
Australia has increased its work-force since the war
are from overseas. One in every eight workers in
this country today has come to these shores since
1946.
We do well to recall this; and to remember
that while we go on translating plan into per-
formance, we should welcome the people who come
here to build Australia with us as their own and
their children’s home.
y
toms-duty and sales-tax have
been boosted by higher imports.
Last year the Government had
an over-all cash surplus of
£17.7 million caused partly by
buoyant revenues exceeding esti-
mates and partly by £7.5 million
under-expenditure on works
projects because of physical
limitations. This year, Mr.
Watts says, works-spending is
close to estimates, and, because
of an appreciable decline in the
receipts from small savings,
which normally help to finance
works, it will be necessary to dip
into the Consolidated Fund.
Budget Policy
In its Budget proposals for
1956-57 fiscal year the Govern-
ment should provide for a sub-
stantial cash surplus. In the
taxation field nothing should be
given away. Indeed, some
increase in indirect taxation on
luxury goods would be in order
economically, if not politically.
But little will be accomplished
by taxation unaccompanied by
drastic restraint on State spend-
ing, with pruning wherever pos-
sible. Taxation alone is too
likely to cut into savings instead
of spending. In the year to
March last, while private in-
comes rose by 9 per cent., sav-
ings fell by 22 per cent, and ex-
penditure on consumer-goods
and services rose by 15 per cent.
Direct tax took 7 per cent more
and indirect tax 21 per cent,
more.
The plain fact is that Maori-
land has been spending beyond
its resources, thereby generat-
ing inflationary pressures, which
have upset the balance-of-pay-
ment overseas and which, if
unchecked, may, by raising
costs, impair exporters’ abili.y
to compete on world markets.
However desirable expenditure
may be in a young, rapidly-ex-
panding country, the immediate
call is plainly for saving—and
it is up to the Government to
give a strong lead to the private
sector by example as well as
precept.
Share Prices
Though fixed-interest-security
prices have wilted in the recent
atmosphere of rising rates, equity-
shares have, of late, shown a
comparatively firm front. Several
second-line issues, which had
been subject to persisjent selling
for a considerable time, have
perked up noticeably in the last
few weeks. It may be that many
of the weakest holders have been
shaken-out of the market al-
ready. The relative firmness of
demand during the period of
income-tax payments, together
with the success of recent new
company-flotations, sliows that
the credit-squeeze has not shaken
the confidence of that section of
the public which has funds
available for investment.
A possible sidelight on interest-
rate anticipation has been pro-
vided by the strength of the two
leading insurance issues, South
British and New Zealand, both
of which have made big gains
since the beginning of the year,
though with some later reaction.
It has been the custom of both
companies to place underwriting
profits to reserves and distribute
as dividends to shareholders
interest-earnings on their huge
investments. Higher interest-
rates could, therefore, mean
higher dividends later on.
provides service and spare-parts
facilities.
Last year consolidated net
profit of £466,891 (up £131,368)
was struck after providing £3063
(£3185 in 1954) depreciation and
£245,400 (£171,610) taxation.
Provision for bad and doubtful
debts (apparently not made in
1954) was £10,000:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Re-
June, Profit, f— Dividends—v serves.*
Pref. Ord:
5 p.c. 20 p.c.
£ £ £ £
Share premiums, £325,500 388,147
Preliminary expenses,
etc., £17,905 .. 370,242
’51.. 428,970 4,000 57,500 737,712
Stock - fluctuation provision,
£50,000 687,712
’52.. 486,061 4,000 115,000 1,054,863
’53.. 261,027 4,000 115,000 1,196,890
’54.. 325,523 4,000 115,000 1,403,413
Long - service leave provi-
sion, £15,000 .. .. 1,388,413
30 p.c.
’55.. 456,891 4,000 172,500 1,668,804
* Subject to goodwill, £86,249, at
30/6/’55.
Ordinary dividend, at 30 p.c., was
up 10 p.c., of which 5 p.c. was
a bonus. The ratio of profit on
paid-up ordinary capital was
equal to 78.8 p.c. in 1955, as
against 55.9 p.c. in 1954, 44.7 p.c.
1953, 83.8 p.c. 1952, and 73.9
p.c. in 1951
Since the 1953 term, when im-
port-cuts were felt most heavily,
turnovers have been moving up-
wards again, although over the
latter half of the present term
it is expected that the latest
restrictions, introduced in
October last year, will begin
to have effect on sales. Further
import-cuts are not contemplated
by the Government at present,
and the company says it is confi-
dent of continuing to operate on
a satisfactory basis for share-
holders.
New spare-parts branches were
opened at Bendigo and Camber-
well during the year, and this
term the Albury branch was to
move into bigger premises. New
premises are also to be provided
in Melbourne for a commercial-
vehicle sales-room (at Carlton)
and spare-parts service (at North
Melbourne).
As the result of highly suc-
cessful trading the co.’s finances
are in an extremely liquid
state:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955.
Pref £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ord 575,000 575,000
Reserves .. .. 1,403,324 1,668,804
Creditors, etc. .. 294,523 313,914
Staff fund .. .. 15,000
Tax provision .. 171,705 245,405
Final divs. .. 59,000 117,000
£2,584,052 £3,015,123
Freehold, leasehold,
etc 439,792 636,112
Shares .. .. 91,168 91,779
Stock .. .. 943,409 824,642
Debtors .. .. 253,439 331,087
Loans .. .. 461,000 661,000
Cash, bonds .. 308,995 584,254
Intangibles .. > 86,249 86,249
£2,584,052 £3,015,123
At June 30 cash and Government
securities stood at £584,254 (up
£275,529), loans to companies at
£561,000 (up £100,000; though
it is not stated if these are
secured or not), and investments
at £91,779. Stock was £118,767
lighter at £824,642, and book-
debts standing at £331,087 were
up £77,648.
At 17s. 9d. the yield from the
ss. ords. on a 30 p.c. div. basis
is 8.4 p.c. Net asset-cover for
the ss. ords. is 19s. Bd., and for
the unlisted £1 pref., £29 4s. sd.
Peko Mines, N.L.
AN initial div. of 6d. per
2s. 6d.-paid share has been
declared by Peko Mines, N.L.,
payable April 23. It will call
for about £156,000.
The first full year of pro-
ductive operations at the Ten-
nant Creek (N.T.) mine was com-
pleted on June 30, 1955, but
throughput for the year was only
23,692 tons. From this, con-
centrates with a content of 1523
tons copper, 33590 z. gold and
12,2 lOoz. silver were dispatched
for treatment. (Profit for 1954-55
was £44,618.) Average recovery
of copper-in-concentrate during
the period was about 61 p.c. of
milling tonnages.
By the end of the 1954-55
financial year throughput was in
the vicinity of 3000 tons of ore
a month, and during the four
weeks to February 8 millings
were up to 4097 tons.
The concentrates are averag-
ing about 25 p.c. copper and
Bdwt. to lOdwt. gold to the ton.
Value, at Australian prices, of
concentrates has recently been
about £190,000 a month.
With copper at the record
Australian price of £507 10s. a
ton, it is to Peko’s benefit to
increase output as quickly as
possible. By the end of the
present financial year it is hoped
to be treating 5600 tons a month.
It is the wet season in the N.T.
just now, and though Tennant
Creek is to the south of the zone
of heaviest rainfall, the “wet”
tends to slow-down Territory
transport. In October of last
year Peko milled over 4000 tons
during four weeks, and little
appreciable advance has been
made since.
The initial div. of 6d. a share
would suggest profit-earning at
present at the rate of over
£300,000 a year from a revenue
of over £2,000,000 a year at
present record copper prices.
Ore reserves at June 30 of last
year included 224,000 tons
of proved ore above the 500 ft.
level assaying 10.3 p.c. copper
and 232,000 tons of indicated
ore above the 750 ft. level assay-
ing 7.5 p.c. Recent recoveries
have averaged over 9 p.c. copper-
in-concentrate.
Ore-values, ore-volume, metal-
prices and mining and milling
costs need to be more clearly
established before the mine can
be valued with any assurance.
Diamond-drilling continues to
produce interesting evidence
of mineralisation, but big
new tonnages of high-grade
ore need to be developed. Peko
is at an interesting but rather in-
definite stage of development
and milling operations.
With the acquisition of most
of the shares of Cloncurry
Uranium, N.L., Peko has an
issue of over 6,000,000 2s. 6d.
shares. At 10s. each the market
value of the mine is more than
£3,000,000.
Percussion Drilling
“S.A.”: Exploratory drilling
in 1955 in the United States was
expanded to new record-levels,
with the petroleum - industry
recording 12,271 “wildcat”
completions, an increase of
about 8 p.c. over the previous
year’s high. There was a total
of 56,682 wells completed in the
U.S.A. From this it will be
noted that the wildcat wells
accounted for 21.6 p.c. of all
wells completed. In the case of
the wildcat wells, approximately
35 p.c. were completed with the
percussion-unit.
This means that a total of
4300 wells were drilled by cable-
tool plants.
In my opinion exploratory-
drilling in Australia should be
carried out by the cheapest and
most accurate method —that of
percussion. Admittedly it takes
much longer, but it is ten times
cheaper than rotary-drilling.
When oil is found and share-
holders’ money is no longer
involved, certainly the rotary
method would be the most
satisfactory.
Also, I believe that the search
for oil in this country should be
limited to districts where
possible production could be
obtained at the maximum of
5000 ft. There is less risk in
drilling three holes to 5000 ft.
than one to 15,000 ft. .The deep-
drilling below 5000 ft. would be
justified only when all possible
shallower horizons had been
tested.
Admittedly, deep-drilling pro-
vides much information for the
geologist, but it is a very
expensive project.


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Social life gathered swift momentum
during the week, with shows of various
kinds providing a sort of trial-run before
the great Easter Show, which begins next
Friday, but doesn’t “open” till the follow-
ing Wednesday. (Query—did an Irishman
start the R.A.S.?)
In any case, last week we had an
international exhibition, four mannequin-
parades, two art-shows, an exhibition of
toys and sports-goods (100 per cent. Aus -
tralian-made, 40 per cent. New Australian-
made), and a pageant by the Boy Scouts at
the Town Hall.
The mannequin-parades were varied,
the most unusual being the one showing
children’s-wear which Mr. and Mrs.
George Carter, of Brisbane, gave (to the
accompaniment of a buffet-dinner) at the
Wentworth Hotel. Buyers from Queens-
land (where the dresses are made at
Beenleigh), from Victoria and from all
oyer N-S.W. flew-in for this parade, when
nine sweet, small girls, aged from two-
and-a-half to nine years of age, showed
the clothes with great demureness and
charm. Their compere was Keith Smith,
well known for his delightful session on
the A.B.C. “A Word From Children.”
Beril Jents showed her new season’s
models at her salon in the St. James Build-
ing, and the makers of Vilene presented
imported-creations by famous Continental
designers at a party at Prince’s. Also at
Prince’s were shown the 123 dresses
designed and made in Australia from
French-cottons which are to be featured
at the French Exhibition at the Easter
Show.
The art-shows included an exhibition
at David Jones’ Gallery of reproductions
of the school of French painting—this
show being opened by French Ambas-
sador M. Renaud Sivan—and an exhibi-
tion of watercolors by John Maund at
the Grosvenor Galleries, for which the
opening words were spoken by Mr. R.
Else Mitchell.
☆ ☆ ☆
The “Know Your Neighbor Week” at
Legion House, organised by Mrs. J. H.
Pelly and the committee of the auxiliary
for the Catholic Welfare Bureau, proved
very colorful and informative, with
exhibits ranging from Chinese-carved
furniture to tiny Italian shoes, beaten-
copper plates from Belgium, and, from
Ireland, coffee-cups decorated with a
design from the Book of Kells.
Cardinal Gilroy, in opening the exhibi-
tion, said that as trustees of the land
we live in we had a duty to welcome those
who come to make a contribution to it.
Included in the week’s activities was a
film-night (when films of travel in other
lands were shown), a discussion on the
necessity for welfare-work in the modern
W'orld (for which the speakers were Mrs.
Tom Bateman, Miss Eileen Davidson,
Dr. C. M. Guiney and Monsignor
McCosker), and an international concert.
There was also an international dinner
by candle-light, which was attended by the
Governor, Sir. John Northcott, and the
Apostolic Delegate, Archbishop Romolo
Carboni. Special dishes for this dinner,
contributed by members of various Con-
sulates and Trade Commissions, ranged
from a delicious steak-and-kidney pie,
representing the U.K., to exotic Chinese,
Indian and Philippine confections. Presi-
dent of the sub-committee organising this
dinner was Mrs. C. M. Guiney.
it tic ft
Those who love cooking-demonstra-
tions will be fascinated by the “Oh, For a
French Wife! ” presentations being given
by some of Sydney’s prominent French-
women at David Jones’ George-street
store every afternoon this week. The
recipes shown are taken from the cook-
book of that name, and the women par-
ticipating are Madame Evelyn Playoust,
Madame Thevenet, Madame Daniele la
Grave, Mrs. Loyd Ring Coleman and
Madame Alice Brenac.
# # #
Considering the amount of rain
gardeners have endured for the past three
months, it was amazing to see how
creditable a display the Anthony
Horderns’ staff made for their third
annual Autumn Flower Show, held in
the Fine Art Gallery at the store. Three
suburban gardening-societies (St. George,
Hunter’s Hill and Strathfield) contributed
to the exhibition, and, with flowers
brought from as far afield as the Blue
Mountains, there was quite a colorful
and artistic display.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted with sorrow, the increased taxa-
tion on cosmetics. Shaving-requisites for
men have also been slogged, but not
wedding-rings, which have been specifi-
cally excluded. No doubt the Govern-
ment thinks that with bare-faced women
and grisly-faced men there is not likely
to be much marrying or giving in
marriage.
Jennifer Moore, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. J. R. Moore, of Walma, Walgett,
has just announced her engagement to
Alan Friend (also of Walgett), son of Mr.
and Mrs. W. S. Friend, of The Astor,
Macquarie-street. Photo by Norton-
Trevaire.
The Toy, Sports Goods and Stationery
Fair at the Trocadero was full of interest-
ing things this year. Do you know that
you can get a golf-bag with 15 separate
divisions for clubs? That shuttlecock is
the most popular indoor-game among the
younger folk? That there’s a little
aborigine doll called Jedda, who has soft
brown eyes and clutches a baby-
kangaroo? That Davy Crockett suits
are very quiet at the moment, but that
cowboy suits, like teddy-bears, go on
for ever? That a soft and hygienic filling
for pillows made from tea-tree bark is an
Australian invention by an Austrian who
has been here for 15 years? That some
“cuddly” toys are now being filled with
foam-rubber? That koala-bears and
pandas are catching up with the teddy as
first-favorite? That you can buy Alice
in Wonderland in French if you want to.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Anzac Festival Committee has
extended the closing-date for its essay-
competition, “The Story of Anzac”
(written for children), from April 1 to
April 8. The music-competition is now
closed.
☆ ☆ ☆
Some hint of what television has in
store for us (about November, in time
for the Olympic Games) is given by
Talbot Duckmanton, A.B.C. television-
executive, who has just returned from a
five-months’ world tour. “For women-
viewers,” says Mr. Duckmanton, “we
plan to get films on overseas fashions
from America and Europe, and as we
develop we hope to exchange material
with other countries on interior-decorat-
ing and home-management.” He also
mentions an interesting development in
France —communal viewing: a large
screen is set-up in the central village-
square, and people coming there sit
around and talk at night. This system
is also beginning in parts of Italy, and
seems to hold tremendous possibilities for
education in certain countries.
* ☆ *
The Country Women’s Association’s
34th annual general conference is to be
officially opened by the Governor on
Tuesday, April 10, at 2.30 p.m. in Sydney
Town Hall. Usually the conference
(which will last to the 13th) is attended
by from 800 to 900 delegates as well as
many visitors, but it is not yet known
whether the recent tragic floods will affect
this year’s attendance. The election for
president will be held on April 11 at
2 p.m., those nominated being Mrs.
Agnes J. Bell (Peak Hill), Miss Mary Hall
(Coolabah), Mrs. Thelma Kirkby
(Bellata) and Mrs. J. A. Lander
(Darlington Point).
MELBOURNE"
The retiring High Commissioner for
India, General K. M. Cariappa, gave a
late-aftemoon party at Menzies’ to say
goodbye to the many friends he has made
here. Among those at the party were the
Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Mrs. Harold
Holt (who wore a wide-brimmed emerald-
green straw hat with a patterned silk
frock in more muted tonings), Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside (attractive in a red-
spotted white frock), State Cabinet Minis-
ter G. S. McArthur and his wife, the
W. K. Burnsides {she wearing a cocoa-
brown nylon self-patterned frock and
small matching flower-trimmed hat),
Mrs, R. G. Casey, English visitors Mrs.
Eve Herbert and Lisa Brionda, and
Mrs. Claudia Creswick (whose black
sheath-frock had the deep hem finely
pleated).
☆ ☆ ☆
Ciro’s was packed for the luncheon-
and-hat show organised by Mrs. W. K.
Burnside and her committee for the
Royal Melbourne Almoner Auxiliary
Ambulance Fund. Lady Selleck (the Lady
Mayoress), who opened the show, wore
a smart navy frock and a small hat in
pastel-blue. Mrs. Burnside’s choice was
a silk-tweed suit in a mixture of black
and cognac; her green feather-cap was
gold-tipped. Also in the official party
were Mrs. Henry Bolte, Mrs. Roy
Chambers (president of all Royal Mel-
bourne auxiliaries), Mrs. A. G. Warner,
Lady Disney and her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Alex Hay. Others present were
Mrs. L. Dooling, Mrs. W. P. Mein, Lady
Angliss, Miss May Angliss, Mrs. Norman
Lynch, Mrs. Angus Jorges and Mrs. Don
Hutchison.
The engagement has been announced
of Elizabeth Anne, only daughter of
Colonel and Mrs. R. H. Spraggett, of The
Cottage, Government House, to Dr.
Clive Keith Coogan, only son of Mr.
and Mrs. Rupert Coogan, of Burwood,
Sydney. Col. Spraggett is private-secre-
tary to the Governor, and Anne was pri-
vate-secretary to Lady Brooks from 1952
to 1953. Now at the University doing the
Social Studies course, Anne was born in
London and spent her early years in
South Africa. Dr. Coogan is senior
tutor at Queen’s College, Melbourne
University; he attended the Sydney Uni.,
and later obtained his Doctorates of
Philosophy and Physics at Bristol. The
engagement was celebrated at a party
given by Anne’s parents at The Cottage.
The marriage is planned for early next
year.
As it is French Fortnight, many firms
are holding fashion-parades, one of the
largest being the display of French-
cottons at the Hotel Australia. It was a
revelation to see what local designers had
done with simple cotton, but, of course,
the beautiful patterns of the French-
cottons sold themselves. The house of
Le Louvre produced a gown which could
have graced the most formal function.
It was a combination of pdle-blue and
pale-pink polished-cotton. The skirt was
immense, the close-fitting bodice strapless,
and down the back floated the long ends
of the flat bow which highlighted the
bodice.
At the Mutual Store (whose window
won first-prize in the competition for the
best French-window) the fashions were
simple, elegant, easy-to-wear and excellent
in design. More important, they were
budget-priced. Jackets of suits featured
three styles: the nipped-in waistline, the
boxy double-breasted jacket (which was
cut to just below the waist), and the finger,
tip loose jacket. Materials mostly used
were of tweed, either in herringbone or
flecked designs. Grey flannel and natural
jersey were used to make smart frocks,
and these were dressed-up with accessories
in the new cognac shade.
One smart natural-flecked tweed had a
slim skirt and a double-breasted jacket,
with flap-pockets, and the jacket was slit
at the back seams. Very smart also was
a slate-grey tweed-suit which featured
black velvet cuffs and collar, the jacket
being fingertip-length. Attractive, too,
was a Ming-blue jersey frock with a full
skirt and fitting bodice; the white pique
collar was finished with a saucy bow,
and there were white cuffs on the short,
push-up sleeves.
Cocktail-frocks and evening-frocks were
eye-catching. One lovely gown of white
organza was printed in a design of.sprays
of lily-of-the-valley. There was also a
candy-pink chiffon gown cut on Grecian
lines. A long stole, attached to one arm,
could be worn as a sari. With the suits
and frocks were worn smart hats in the
latest shapes and designs, all from the
model-salon in the store.
V V V
As her contribution to French Fort-
night gaieties, Irene Mitchell produced
“The Lark,” translated by Christopher
Fry from Jean Anouilh’s play (its first
production in Australia). Overseas critics
have said that this is the best play about
Joan of Arc which the English theatre has
seen, and at its premiere at the Arrow
Theatre, a capacity audience sat spell-
bound through the performance, in which
Beverley Dunn was the Maid.
In the audience were the wife of the
French Consul, Madame Le Bas de
Plumetot (she wore a short black faille
frock and mink stole), Mrs. Maurice
Belz (also in black frock), Lady Selleck
(whose lovely short frock was of black
Chantilly-lace), and Mrs. Massey Burn-
side (who covered her frock with a royal-
blue velvet coat).
☆ ☆ *
At Kurneh, the lovely home of Sir
Norman and Dame Mabel Brookes, an
exhibition of Dame Mabel’s Antiques was
officially opened by Lady Brooks, the
wife of the Governor; funds will go to
the Kurneh auxiliary of the Queen Vic-
toria Hospital. Lady Brooks was wel-
comed by Dame Mabel, who is president
of the Q.V. hospital, and Mrs. Lindsay
Mildred, who is president of the Kurneh
auxiliary. Lady Brooks wore a lovely
gown of magnolia satin,, with a royal-blue
ribbon outlining the high Empire bust-
line, and finished with one large French-
pink rose. Dame Mabel’s gown of old-
gold brocade, patterned in small pink
roses, had side-panels on the skirt. Mrs.
Mildred’s choice was a gown of copper-
brown Chantilly-lace, the pattern outlined
with bronze sequins.
It was a night of formality and lovely
gowns. Mrs. John Buckland wore a
simply-cut gown of deep-midnight-blue
velvet; Mrs. Bernard Evans chose the
same color and added a jacket of chiffon.
Mrs. Percy Northrupp, in emerald-green
taffeta, brought her two daughters, Patsey
and Sue Cohen ; Patsey was in white-
embroidered organdie, Sue in ice-blue
faille. Mrs. Peter Sleigh’s bouffant gown
of white lace had a strapless bodice of
pastel-blue satin. Mrs. John Turnbull,
of Hobart, chose royal-blue chiffon for
her short frock. Ellen McCool, repre-
sentative of American “Vogue,” wore a
sheath-frock of deep-red velvet. A
striking short hooped-frock was worn by
Mrs. Bing Molyneux; of white silk-
organza, it was horizontally striped in red,
with the stripes broken to show a large
flower-pattern. Ticket-secretaries were
Mrs. Robert Gove, who wore black-and-
gold brocade, and Mrs. Ross Grey Smith,
who was smart in black.
# # V
At the card-party organised by the
Lady Mayoress for the March appeal for
Red Cross 200 tables were booked. The
cake-stall was staffed by members of the
Ethel Nilsen Day Nursery women’s com-
mittee, the doll-stall by members of the
Catholic Welfare Organisation. Lady
Selleck, who wore a floral-patterned blue-
and-grey silk frock and a blue straw
platter-cap, was assisted by Dame Mary
Daly, chairman of the functions commit-
tee of Red Cross.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MAVIS IRENE GREY (nee MAVIS
IRENE MAYTOM) formerly of Bondi.—
TAKE NOTICE that HAYDEN GREY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 597 of
1956 on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
25th of May 1956 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt
Street, Sydney, New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar. __ w
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO DONALD WALTON HENSON late of
53 Alexandra Street, East St. Kilda in
the State of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE
that LORRAINE MARY HENSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4417 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 15th day of May 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from R. H. RICHARDS, Solicitor,
2nd Floor, Manchester Unity Building,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in the
State of New South Wales. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.,., 22/6
CHATEAU TANUNDA
.11
X
\\\
The First Shipment of Gold
'News of the discovery of gold in the Bathurst
district in April, 1851, reached England more
than two months before the first samples of
Australian gold.
Records indicate the first consignment of gold to
leave Sydney was dispatched by the firm of Smith,
Campbell & Co., who forwarded 249 oz. by the
Thomas Arbuthnot, sailing on June 3, 1851, to D.
Dunbar, Esq., of London. The total gold consign-
ment carried by the Thomas Arbuthnot was 253 oz.
10 cwt. Although this quantity is extremely small in
view of the tons of gold which were being panned or
dug out of the earth in N.S.W. and Victoria by the
end of the year, this is believed to have been our first
gold export. The immense expansion in the gold
industry which followed is shown by the fact that,
between August 1, and December 6, 1851, Victoria
shipped away 31,734 oz. This included nearly 27,000
oz. on the 'Hero.’
A major reason for the tardy flow of gold ex-
ports at the time was that ships arriving in Sydney,
Melbourne, and Geelong were often deserted by their
entire complements and had to find scratch crews for
the journey to England.
Since Australia produced nearly half the world’s
gold output in the 1850’s (the figure to-day is less than
3 per cent.), the export of gold to Britain became an
immensely valuable source of revenue to shipping
companies. Total shipments in 1852 amounted to
856,000 ozs.—the largest single shipment in that year
—98,900 ozs. was made by the "Phoenician." In the
100 odd years since the discovery of gold in Australia,
we have sent abroad hundreds of tons of gold.
j
CHATEAU TANUNDA
Product of the House cT
Agents in N.S.W.
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED.
Seppeit
v\v'
.IL.
EST. 1838
GFII
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
Second Moomba
At time of writing Melbourne’s
second Moomba threatened to be
even more terrific than its pre-
decessor, largely because the
organisers had decided that the
necessity for keeping in a con-
tinuous state of madness for a
fortnight might be beyond the
capacity of the population, so
they condensed the bacchanalia
to eight days of intensive jolli-
fication.
It opened with a bang—
Moomba motor-car racing at
Albert Park, attended by
100,000 ; a Moomba Henley-on-
the-Yarra, which, owing to the
fierce competition elsewhere,
drew smaller crowds than usual;
Moomba cycle-racing round the
Treasury Gardens; Moomba
motor-cycling, and Moomba fire-
works.
The fireworks were greeted
with mixed feelings by the Gil-
bert and Sullivan Society, which
was giving “Utopia, Limited” a
run-over in the Treasury Garden
before 5000 people, who were
deafened by the screaming of
the rockets and the explosions of
the hungers.
There was more Moomba on
the Monday. Heralded, accom-
panied and pursued by 30 brass-
bands, 46 decorated floats
ambled through the city before
the eyes of 500,000 people, while
an aquatic-festival was develop-
ing on the Yarra, where the
Moomba Queen was crowned
amid scenes of splendor which
beat Cleopatra’s celebrated Nile
trip to a frazzle. A Moomba
floral-show at the Town Hall,
a banjo-concert, water ski-ing
and speedboat-racing, a race-
meeting and athletics filled-in
any pauses in the programme.
Anybody looking for the cul-
tural side of Moomba could slip
into the Kelvin Hall and see
Peter O’Shaughnessy’s play, “The
Migrant” ; or watch Mr. William
Onus throwing boomerangs ip
the Alexandra Gardens, or the
National Theatre doing “The
Merry Wives of Windsor,” or
Mr. Eugene Utassy conducting
an international concert. They
could also hear famous Aus-
tralian authors talking about
their books in the Lower Town
Hall, which had been turned into
a ship, with coils of rope and
fenders and a funnel which, for
some strange reason, found their
way below-decks, along with a
cargo of Australian books
astounding in their scope and
numbers. There were also half-
a-dozen art-shows, including an
exhibition of 166 French con-
temporary paintings, which,
however, aren’t strictly Moomba,
but belong to French Fortnight,
which happens to synchronise
with the local frenzy.
At any time and in any place
a person with a sufficiently acute
sense of hearing could have
heard Moomba roars coming
from the Yarra-bank, the Trea-
sury Gardens, Flemington,- and
a dozen other rendezvous for
the Moomba spirit. The mightiest
roar of all came from Olympic
Park when John Landy, running
in the Australian mile-champion-
ship, turned back to help a fallen
competitor, and then, despite a
bruised foot, wheeled and
whizzed off to a victorious finish.
A Moomba item of the highest
merit was the giant pumpkin
grown by Mr. H. Teece, a
Queenslander, in answer to a
challenge from a former
American Ambassador that his
country could grow a bigger
pumpkin than Australia. Mr.
Teece girded up his loins and
produced a pumpkin which,
when duly weighed before the
U.S. Consul-General at the
Royal Horticultural Society’s
Moomba show at the Town Hall,
easily turned the scale at 1601 b.,
whereas its American opponent
was a miserable runt of a cucur-
bit weighing a mere 671 b.
4$ ♦> *
“Aida”
Many of the thousands who
swarmed over Melbourne
Treasury Gardens for the
National Theatre Opera Com-
pany’s performance of “Aida”
were probably seeing opera for
the first time, so it was fortunate
that the production was the star-
turn of the Moomba programme.
It was something of an
achievement on the part of pro-
ducer Lennox Brewer that the
ponderous equipment of the
Court of Egypt was shifted to
the Treasury Gardens, and that
slaves, soldiers, dancing-girls,
princesses and a small but effi-
cient Egyptian Army, tq the
number of 400, were comfort-
ably accommodated underneath
the elm-trees.
It was likewise creditable that
the music dispensed by the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra and
four choral-societies conducted
by Dr. Herman Schildberger got
through without undue distor-
tion, and that Charles Linwood,
as Radames, Loris Synan, as
Amneris, William Howard, as
Amonasro, and Jean Marks, as
Aida, made a deep impression
both with their singing and their
acting—it wasn’t their fault that
the amplifiers made a mess of
their fortes and lost most of
their pianississimos altogether.
The dark trees, the sky, the
floodlit lawns and the white mass
of the Treasury Buildings in the
background made the loveliest
of settings.
<£♦ 4>x +
Borovanskys
The Borovanskys closed their
Sydney account with “Giselle”
and “Aurora’s Wedding.” In
the former, Jocelyn Vollmar
made a limp, hysterical dance of
the peasant-maiden’s disillusion,
and was overshadowed in the
forest-scene by the discipline of
the Wilis and their Queen (Eve
King).
In between the savories of
“Aurora’s Wedding,” Peggy
Sager, as Princess Aurora, flashed
with all her usual polished pre-
cision—a stylish exclamation-
martc to finish a distinguished
season.
Musica Viva
Musica Viva Society’s suc-
cessful first subscription-concert
at Sydney Con. presented hus-
band-and-wife team John Glick-
man (viola) and Sybil Copeland
(violin), with ’cellist Lois Simp-
son and pianist Marta Zalan.
First item was the Brahms
Piano Quartet in C Minor, Op.
60, and the foursome collabor-
ated very nicely l — scherzo and
allegro full of surprises, with
staccato phrases from piano;
the beautiful andante theme
given-out by ’cello; and in the
allegro finale Miss Zalan’s
sparkling arpeggi above the close
harmony of the strings.
Mozart’s Duo in B Flat for
violin and viola, in the com-
poser’s “song”-style, was sensi-
tively played, the last movement
quite Bachlike in character.
After interval came the first
Australian performance of Gor-
don Jacob’s “Prelude, Passacag-
lia and Fugue.” Jacob, a con-
temporary English composer,
writes clearly and intensely. The
Passacaglia was studded with
chromatic passages, while the
lively classical nature of the
Fugue almost seemed the work
of a 19th-century theorist —ex-
cept for the pizzicato passage
halfway through.
’Cellist and pianist then joined
husband-and-wife to round-off
the programme with Dvorak’s
Piano Quartet in D Major, Op.
23 —a work full of Slavonic
good-humor.
A.W.
♦x* »x* *z*
Pro Musica
Sydney University’s Great
Hall was the setting for the first
concert by the newly-formed
Pro Musica Orchestra, under
Professor Peart’s baton.
The orchestra, trooping on to
the platform under the cold eyes
of sundry oil-paintings, plunged
spiritedly into Rossini’s Over-
ture —“La Scala di Seta” —fol-
lowing with Mozart’s Concerto
for Violin and Orchestra in G
Major, K 216. Soloist Harold
Curby, playing richly and
accurately, was at times over-
shadowed by Peart and co.
Next came Haydn’s “Clock”
Symphony, No. 101, tempting
the pair of grandfather exami-
nation-clocks to join the fray.
If they did, they were well
submerged in the surprisingly-
powerful tutti of the orchestra.
William Walton’s “Siesta”
found the audience very much
awake, as was Prof. Peart, ably
steering his players through the
short, breezy work. Prokofieff’s
“Symphonie Classique” was
served-up attractively, with an
eye for concerted passages,
where the orchestra seemed to
shine.
And if there was a lack of
confidence in the strings, or some
sluggishness in the woodwinds,
or, in quieter passages, a general
insecureness, one must blame
the perfect acoustics of the hall.
4 A.W.
Arthurs ts
French Exhibition
For the past 50 years or longer
most art-fashions have originated
in Paris, and all but a few
artists in every country have
taken their cue from that artistic
Mecca. The few who haven’t
are generally regarded as hope-
lessly outdated.
In the main, Melbourne con-
temporaries paint, or think they
paint, as contemporaries do in
Paris, but, judging by the show
of current French painting at
Buckley and Nunn’s, the locals
are out of step with Paris.
The French artists appear to
be trying to paint like Corot and
Constable, not like Braque and
Picasso, and, if they don’t suc-
ceed as well as those masters,
they have at least produced some
very pleasant pictures.
Bra Ouezec’s “The Seine at
Courbevoire,” Corda’s “Pro-
vencal Landscape,” Lauzero’s
“Montmorency” and Parturier’s
“Barges in Saint Mannes” do tell
you something of what France
looks like.
* ❖
Showing portraits, landscapes
and still-life at Melbourne
Athenaeum, James Govett and his
mother were both pupils of Max
Meldrum, and both display, in
varying degrees, the quality of
his teaching. There is a sensi-
tiveness in Mrs. Govett’s still-
life which is repeated in her son’s
landscapes, though not so much
in his portraits, which tend to
paintiness. An unusual item in
the show is a collection of copies
by James Govett of famous
paintings in the National Gallery
in London. It requires con-
siderable skill to catch the glow
and the depth of a Rembrandt,
and there is quite a lot of it in
these copies.
♦> »J*
In Melbourne, the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau shows abstracts
by George Johnson, an artist of
that island. The abstracts, priced
from 50 to 150 guineas, aren’t
unattractive, and compare favor-
ably, as to design and color, with
the tens of thousands of similar
articles produced in Melbourne.
*> ♦> *l*
Latest Sydney art-competition
is that organised by the South
Strathfield Parents and Citizens’
Association. It is confined to
watercolors, the prize is 40gns.,
and the judges are G. K.
Townshend, Eric Langker and
Rufus Morris. Entry-forms and
other particulars from the Secre-
tary, South Strathfield P. and C.
Association, South Strathfield
Public School.
Talkies
“The Vanishing Prairie”
(Sydney Paris): This Disney
full-length nature-film presents
the teeming fife of what, on the
surface, appears to be the un-
inhabited prairie-lands between
the Mississippi and the great
western mountain-chain. It is
a fascinating record of the
struggle for survival among
numerous animals, reptiles and
birds, there are good touches of
humor, and it’s all magnificently
photographed.
“The Desperate Hours”
(Sydney Capitol): Three escaped
convicts terrorise a businessman
and family in their suburban
home. Director William Wyler
keeps the tension on for 90-
minutes, and Humphrey Bogart,
as leader of the trio, and
Frederic March and Martha
Scott, as parents anxious to
protect their children but always
casting about for means to out-
wit their urfinvited guests, give
sterling performances.
“Land of the Pharaohs”
(Sydney Mayfair): Turgid melo-
drama about Cheops’ evil
second-wife, who uses a cobra
and a knife to rid herself of the
two obstacles to her acquistion
of untold wealth. The special
fate reserved for the greedy lady
(Joan Collins) is telegraphed well
in advance. Production-credits
include some fine settings and
ingenious technical devices, a
portrait of some power by Jack
Hawkins, as the gold-bemused
Pharaoh, and a performance of
dignity by James Robertson
Justice, as the captive-architect
Pyramid-designer.
“The Tender Trap” (Sydney
Liberty): A lightweight comedy
about a gay bachelor, his
women-trouble and his devious
means of trying to extricate him-
self from the toils. Frank
Sinatra, as the optimist, and
James Wayne, as a married
man on a temporary scoot, con-
tribute most to the spontaneity
of the doings.


THE
FACTORY
WALL
By KEVIN K. McNAMARA
AS usual, he came home, and
the sun was going down,
the short, squat, ugly
buildings leering their
shadows into the na r r ow,
smoky streets. He turned that
corner, came into that street, his
street.
And this was home. This Was
the street. His eyes were rigid,
revolted, and his boots puffed
out concrete-dust, his tread
heavy, too heavy to measure, no
scale big enough. Home. He
coughed, deep and raw, and
brushed a large hand along his
upper lip.
A thin man with prominent
cheek-bones, low hard jaw,
underslung, a bony swelling
about the top lip, on and just
underneath each side of the
lean nose. His lips pressed hard
together, relaxed, pressed, and
his boots made a massive thud-
ding sound in his ears.
He passed all the gates, the
little gates set in fancy wrought-
iron fences. The gas-boxes, the
bright red, newly-scrubbed steps.
The lace curtains. And over it
all the soot, factory fumes, a
haze of the city’s belching
breath.
There was the Crawfords’.
Thank God he did not live there ;
thank God he lived on the other
side of the street. It was im-
portant, that. The thin line
between.
The Crawfords’ place was
slammed up against the wall of
a factory. The factory wall itself
was blackened and greasy with
layers of dirt. On the dirt, or
perhaps in it, a man had written
fools. What did that mean?
Was the man mad? Above the
wall were the chimneys. Tin
chimneys arranged in neat and
dirty rows.
Something moved in his
mouth, but rather than spit he
pressed hard on his lips and
worked his prominent Adam’s
apple.
Past the doors, their panels
cracked and weathered, past the
balconies, onq-time elegant up
high, one-time presenting a view
of fields and streams and clusters
of fragile flowers. Or had the
factory come first? Could any-
one be crazy enough to build
houses round that factory? It
didn’t seem possible.
His hand tightened on the
handle of his bag. His arms did
not swing. Every day this street
was getting longer, though he
was still young in years, and
every day this street became
more etched in his mind. The
air now made his nose itch.
As he walked, he took a hand-
kerchief from his pocket. He
could see the handkerchief
clearly—the sun had not
yet gone—and he saw that it was
dirty, though he had not used it.
His wife said that it was im-
possible to get anything really
clean, despite the advertisements.
She’d tried everything.
Past the few small shops, their
signs old and out of date. A
partly-unstuck poster flapped like
the wing of a beaten bird. Coca-
Cola. Past the chemist-shop.
Home Permanents, —Be Beautiful.
Past the grocery. Bargain Day —
Big Savings. Past the grubby
children with hands and noses
pressed against the cold glass
windows. Past the half-hearted
milkbar, a girl of fifteen behind
the counter, guardian of the
milk-shake mixers. She watches
the man go past her, sticks out
a hip, her mouth ridiculously
exaggerated with lipstick, talks
to a customer: “Ya see the fella
in ’at picture? Fella with all ’ose
muscles? Gee . . Laughter.
And he walked on, irritated.
The door. Just like all the
other doors, the knocker large
and heavy, carved, ornate. He
pushed, and the door swung
open.
TJOME. He stood on the
threshold, black and heavy
with the setting sun behind him.
A ten-year-old boy, his son,
stopped sketching in an exercise-
book and stared up at the heavy-
shouldered figure of his father.
His eyes widened a little,
motionless.
Overhead, a train smashed
onto the bridge like a metallic
maniac. Steel on steel, pound-
ing, spitting sparks, polluting the
air a fraction more, the bridge
shaking, the air shaking, nerves
shaking in an unseen and subtle
and dangerous way.
“Where’s your mother?” It
was a deep and quiet voice, and
his son did not hear it, be ause
the train had not yet passed. It
was a long goods-train.
They both waited, hardly
breathing, for the train to go.
Then silence, with the ears buzz-
ing and jumping like overworked
muscles.
“I said where’s your mother?”
“Out the back. Did you bring
a shilling?”
“Talking out the back, eh?”
“Yes. Have you got it? The
shilling?”
He found a shilling in his
pocket and dropped it into the
boy’s hand.
“Thanks,” the boy said.
“Don’t go ’way. Tea’ll bo
ready.”
He walked through to the
kitchen, put his bag on the table,
which was covered with a
chequered plastic cloth, and sat
down. He put his elbows on the
table, listening. Outside in the
yard his wife was talking to the
woman next door. He heard the
words, but they did not seem to
make sense, seemed to blend and
churn to a sodden mixture in his
head. He shut his ears to it.
Slowly, he raised his head and
looked at the wall. The wall-
paper was fined with diamonds,
a rose in the centre of each
diamond. In the top left-hand
corner of the wall was a brown
stain, like the map of some weird
country, like a psychiatrist’s card
in his ink-blpt test. What does
this look like? Another country,
far away, or perhaps another
country within the same country.
Another aspect, another life.
He took out the makings and
rolled a cigarette. The tobacco
was over-damp and the end of
the cigarette was almost too hot
to hold between his lips. Smoke
needled his eyes.
“You’re back.”
He did not look at her. “Same
as always.”
“It’s dark in here.”
“Leave the light off for 'a
while.”
“Don’t be silly.” She hit the
switch with her thumb. It was
bright and hard in here now
with the plain white shade cast-
ing a grey circle over the ceiling.
“Why is it you never leave the
light off when I ask you? Why
is it?”: —his voice was con-
trolled, but bitter.
“Oh, come on!”’ She walked
across and plugged in the
electric-jug. It hummed. “We’ll
really have to get this cord fixed,
you know, because it’s
dangerous. I read in the paper
only yesterday Did you get
today’s?”
He always brought today’s.
He did not answer, so she went
to his bag and unclipped it,
taking out the evening news-
paper. While the jug muttered
and sang in a senile way, she
spread the paper out on the table
with one hand, the other on her
hip, squinting at the page, suck-
ing at her lip.
“Wouldn’t it amaze you!”
She continued reading.
“Some of the things that
go on.”
He said nothing.
“Fella here shot his sweet-
heart and everything. A good-
looker she was, too. Peroxide
probably.”
"COR the first time that evening
he looked directly at his
wife. The bobby-pins in her hair
seemed to glint brazenly, drawing
attention to themselves like the
girl in the milkbar. He slowly
mashed the end of his cigarette
on his matchbox and flicked the
butt out the door.
“Don’t do that; ’tisn’t clean.”
“No ; it isn’t.”
“What’s wrong with you?
Something happen at work? You
haven’t had any trouble? You’re
tired; that’s what it is.”
“I saw Bradshaw today. I
saw him today.”
“Did you? What’s he look
like? The young one or the
old one?”
“Junior. The son. He come
through, inspecting. Y’know?
Looking around at the mob.”
He turned and turned the
matchbox in his rod-like fingers,
staring at it.
“And Riley was with him.”
“I remember him. Frank
Riley. That fella used always to
be hanging around with you, oh,
about eight years ago. Had red
hair and freckles—and serious
eyes.”
“He was just like me, I used to
think. Exactly like me. We used
to work in the same room
toge|her. Where I am now. At
the furnace. And he was a
friend.”
“Wait a minute,” she said, and
went across to the boiling jug.
She poured water into the tea-
pot, replaced the lid.
“I used to like that man,
because he always used to listen.
Sometimes you’d get an idea or
a feeling about something. It
could be politics or something.
And you could talk about things
to this Riley and sort of hammer
out ideas, if y’ get me.”
She was pouring the tea into
a/cup. She said, idly: “The tea
will be awhile yet. I’m late
tonight.”
“He studied, and I said I was
going to study, too.”
His hands came down to the
table, touched it, and they
clenched, his breath trembling in
his lungs. “You know, all these
years and years, 1.. . ” It
strangled in his throat unsaid and
he brought his fists up to his
forehead.
“There is something wrong.”
She stood frozen, the cup in
her hand. The diamonds on the
wallpaper were submerged in the
liquid glare of light. In the room
there was the smell of steel from
the factory.
“When I knocked-off for
lunch, I went outside, like always,
and I saw ’em. Bradshaw, tne
factory owner’s son, and Riley,
and some girl, all riding in this
bloody big imported Buick,
laughing. And I couldn’t help
remembering that when &iley
was walking around the furnace
he didn’t even show he knew
_ 55
me.
She waited, not moving.
“I always wondered how
Riley got the money to go to the
university. It takes a lot of
money. Know how he got it?
I found out. At the races.”
She laughed. The sound was
tinny and unreal.
“At the races?”
“At the races.”
CJHE shook her head, laughing,
and came across the floor
with the cup, a few drops of tea
spilling over the edge.
“He didn’t say a word about
it at the time. Just went to the
races.” He looked at her from
the corners of his eyes. “And
all he ever did was listen.”
She put milk, sugar in the cup,
stirred nervously.
“You know, after I saw Riley,
he was important. He made me
feel bad, sitting there in that
Buick . . . And then he wasn’t
important.” He darted his
tongue over his lips, spilling it
out. “He didn’t mean a thing,
all of a sudden, and there was
something worse there. You ever
felt dissatisfied? Have you?”
She gave a whispered laugh.
“Why”
“No, don’t. Let me finish.
You know how it is to feel sort
of like a balloon, getting bigger
and bigger all the time and feel-
ing you’ve got to do something
before you bust?”
“Don’t talk silly.”
“No; no, I mean it. Listen.
You ever read a book or seen
a picture and felt like you’ve got
to do something? Look. Here’s
an example: You’re working in
the foundry, like me, and it’s all
hot and all you see is the big
fire and the hellish sunset the
fire makes, the furnace like a
big mouth, and the men all
around you, sweating, see, and
all the . . . agony . . . and you’ve
got to do something. . .”
“Now you’ll make me
annoyed ; so don’t. Drink your
tea.” She lifted her top lip,
showed her teeth, flicked her
head. “What agony?”
“Don’t you know at all?”
He examined . her face care-
fully, hoping.
“You’ve been drinking.”
“Fergodsake. I’m trying to
let you know. A man works and
shovels and throws it in the
furnace and it’s all burned up in
the big fire. And the fire goes
on and on all the time. And the
sweat. You should see human
faces red from the furnace light
and hear the breathing and smell
the sweat for eight years. Eight


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
-
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
gal
SJWOOO% '
JNOHdOWVSD
Here is your oppor-
tunity to select from the com-
plete catalogues of Irish
Gramophone records by Irish
singers and instrumentalists, etc.
Our Special Department posts
records to all parts of the world,
specially packed to ensure safe
transit. Complete list of all Irish
pressed records sent
Air-Mail. Post Free O w
/>;£*■s FOR YOUR FRIENDS
IN IRELAND
Through Cott’s easy, trouble
free service you can send gifts
of Furniture, Household Goods,
Cookers, Radios, Gramophones,
Refrigerators, Accordeons, etc.,
to your friends in Ireland, at
prices far lower than if goods
were sent from abroad—no
Customs Duty—no fear of
damage.
imei
>'rr
SPECIAL 'US/G' CATALOGUE
SENT FREE ON REQUEST
COTTS
(MAIL-ORDER)
STORES LTD.
KILCOCK, Co. KILDARE,
IRELAND
The Firm known to Irish people at Home
and Abroad.
You are cordially invited
to visit the
IGIANZ STAND
at the
ROYAL EASTER SHOW
STAND 47A
Claret Street
(rear of Wine Industry Exhibit)
Experienced staff will be in constant attendance to advise on
various ICIANZ products serving Agriculture and Industry.
# Agricultural Chemicals
• Animal Remedies
© “Visqueen”
• Plastics
• Ammunition
• “Vynex” Furnishing
Fabric
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
years. And wait not being
stupid. You know? Not being
stupid enough to be content.
See?”
"I’ve been working hard all
day. In the house all day. I’m
not going to suffer out this kind
of thing. What’re you trying to
say? You’re just frothing off
at the mouth because you’re a
failure, so why don’t”
His ears twitched, his scalp
jerked back, and his eyes seemed
to stretch a little farther apart.
“I’ve got a good mind to . . .”
He opened his mouth, closed
it. It didn’t matter.
TT wouldn’t impress her even
A if he told her about Lennie,
who was fifty-nine, old and
shrunken, squint-eyed, hard
muscles, broken mouth, and no
hope. No one, no one at all,
seemed to see the sorrow in
Lennie. . Maybe he imagined it.
Maybe Lennie didn’t care either.
His wife said, grating, “What
you should worry about is the
bills.”
Another train roared over the
bridge and the tea in the cup on
the table shimmered and rippled
into troubled waves.
“I almost quit today.”
“You what?”
“I went right up to the boss
and almost quit, but I didn’t.”
Her jaw shifted, eyes retreating
into her now-puffy face. “What
would you do that for?”
“It was right after lunch.
Right after I saw the Buick. I
started thinking all kinds of
things. For instance, how you’ve
only got one life and how it
seemed so stupid to be just
shovelling everything into that
furnace and coming home —here
—to this place every night. I
just got sick of it.”
He waited while she arranged
her face, adjusted her mind.
“You’ve got a son; responsi-
bilities.” Her jaw went in and
out of her neck. “You’re a
married man. You think we
were put on this earth to have
fun. All of us have different
jobs and we’ve got those jobs
because the good Lord deemed
it so.”
He looked sadly at his iron
hands, eyebrows low.
“Someone’s got to do the
laboring and it’s no use ducks
trying to dress up like peacocks,
neither. We all have our right-
ful place ...”
He shut his ears. His mind
had reddened over the years. The
glow of the fire in the furnace
was always with him, and the
dirty factory wall, and the girl
in the milkbar. And, deep
inside himself, was the ambition.
He stood up suddenly, almost
dramatically, with his hand to his
mouth.
“Are you listening? Are you
listening?” She peered up at him,
sideways. Something in his face
made her say anxiously, “Come
on now, have your tea. It’ll be
ready now.” She laughed.
“Look at the time! ”
“No. Keep it warm. I’m
going upstairs.”
He heard her voice trail after
him as he walked out of the
kitchen, up the trembling stairs,
hand on the banister that was
pitted with the scars of living.
He went into his room and
switched on the fight.
THE corner-bookcase held
about sixty books. He went
over, sat down on the bed and
turned the key of the bookcase.
Slowly, he swung open the glass
door. His fingers touched the
binding of a book. The touch
excited his senses, and desire
burned in circles in his chest.
He did not take a book out,
simply touched one. All those
books were medical books and
he had read every one, had
understood every one. It was
fascinating and wonderful.
Medicine.
He lay back on the bed and
closed his eyes and thought about
it. The network of the nervous
system, the diagnosis of disease,
the instruments —and everything
antiseptic, everything clean,
white clothes, doing something
valuable, making a contribution
to . . . well, humanity. And to
yourself.
“Dad.”
He opened his eyes.
“Mum said come down for
tea.”
“In a minute. What’ve you
been drawing in the book?” He
reached out and took the exer-
cise book. “Elephants. But
they’re the wrong color.”
“In India they paint them red.”
“Do they?”
“Annually. And blue. And
green. All colors. Gee. Imagine.”
“Isn’t that Ceylon? I read
somewhere. . .”
“It might be. I’m not sure.
But imagine. All colors. Boy,
would I like to see that!”
“Maybe you will.”
“And Africa. The Hons.”
“Yeah! ” And him, his son,
being there, a doctor.
They looked at each other, the
boy beginning an open-mouthed
smile. The realisation formed in
the boy’s head. For the first time
it seemed like it could be real and
not just a day-dream.
But his father came suddenly
to his feet, boots smacking the
floor. His father went to the
door, turned, said, laughing,
“And pink elephants, too!”
Down the stairs, the whole
staircase shaking, or maybe he
was shaking, maybe the whole
world shaking. His wife, mouth
open, “Where’re you going,
where’re you”—and the words
cut with the slam of the door.
Past the factory wall. Still
there, that wall, smug and dirty.
The pub. No; not this pub.
Too many people he knew.
Wife’s bosom pals, men at the
foundry. The next pub. There’s
plenty. More pubs than anything
else. And in this pub he became
drunk.
HE came home slowly, not
feeling exactly drunk, just
foggy, just angered. The neons
twisted to purple snakes across
his vision. He could not read
the glass writing, and that was
a good thing. He went on, past
the grocery again, saw the
chimneys, staggered and crooked
and out-of-focus, and the wall.
He thought: I will get a job
driving an ambulance. I can
drive. I will ask the man-in-
charge if I can drive one of their
ambulances.
And what if they won’t let me
drive their ambulance? Their
nice, white ambulance? Dirty,
sunk in dirt, could never get the
dirt out, living too close to the
factory wall.
And the wall broke apart in
his mind, formed a mouth,
blackened teeth and acrid
breath, laughing. Never!
Clouds of smoke. And the
factory wall. The beer-bottle in
his hand. He smashed it at the
wall and it exploded dark-brown
glass, one fragment cutting his
jaw. He let it bleed, worked
with the jagged neck of the beer-
bottle, scratching slowly and
hysterically at the one word,
fools.
He seemed to scratch at it
for a long time, but it wouldn’t
come off, and he finally had to
stop. He fell back, dropped the
bottle-neck in the gutter, where
it glinted.
Tired, emotionally drained, he
walked on and on, his lips work-
ing, cursing the wall, promising
his son, thinking of the ambu-
lance. And the factory wall.
The factory wall just stayed
there.


£
&
BEFORE YOU SEE HER TONIGHT put
on your new Fancy Navy Stamina Suit
As every woman knows, blue gives a man
a chance to look his best. AND, you know,
there IS something about the cut of a Stamina
two-piece double-breasted blue suit that gives
a man that quality look—adding extra smart-
ness, giving that breadth of shoulder and
chest without drape, that men rightly demand.
When you add to this stylish yet essentially
comfortable fitting, the beauty and richness
of the attractive Crusader Pure Wool Worsted
Cloth from which your Stamina Suit is pre-
tailored, you have all the ingredients of a
suit you are proud to wear.
Yes! When you want to look your best, call
in at your favourite Stamina Retailer and
obtain a STAMINA 2-PIECE D.B. SUIT.
ASK for:
Stamina/Y ,j
»*B PHUS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
"ssrir
WANTED
Quarters with skylight for
Sculptor. Clay and primus
provided. Some rent.
Allan Parkes,
14 Moore Park Road,
Paddington, N.S.W.
Missing Friends
TO IRIS JOY CAROLINE EDDINGTON
formerly of 270 Glenhuntly Road Elstern-
wick in the State of Victoria Married
Woman but now of parts unknown and
to JOSEF BALIKO formerly of 270
Glenhuntly Road, Elsternwick in the State
of Victoria Truck Driver but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
lAN THOMAS MONTGOMERIE EDDING-
TON the husband of IRIS JOY CARO-
LINE EDDINGTON has instituted divorce
proceedings against you in the Supreme
Court of the State of Victoria in its
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes Jurisdic-
tion for a dissolution of his marriage on
the grounds of your adultery AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless
you enter an appearance in the office of
the Prothonotary of the Supreme Court
of Victoria on or before the 30th day of
April 1956 and file an answer thereto on
or before the 10th day of May 1956 the
cause may proceed in your absence.
LESTER & PEARN, of 443 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
abovenamed Petitioner.
SHERRIFF (nee RUSHWORTH), MARY
ANN, at one time of Ballarat district of
Victoria. —Will the abovenamed or her
issue or anyone knowing their whereabouts
please contact the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
A.N.A. House, 44 St. George’s Terrace,
Perth, W.A., estate of Fanny Rushworth,
deceased.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELIZABETH FLORENCE SCHILLER
late of Vine Street Marsden Park via
Riverstone N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that
WILLIAM ROBERT SCHILLER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 315 of 1956
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 25th day of May 1956 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. ROBERTSON
PARKHILL ROFE & MOFFITT, Solici
tors, 12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, in
the said State.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To get hold of anything of
historical interest on early Australian
boxing—photos, paintings, books, etc.
—6279.
Copy of the score of the musical
“Rio Rita.”—62Bo.
To exchange Roget’s Thesaurus for
Fowler’s Modern English Usage.
—6281.
Information Sought
Something on the origin of the
kelpie ?
The kelpie breed was evolved
between 1870 and 1880. In the early
development of the wool-industry
flocks were small and needed constant
protection from wild dogs, and from
aborigines, too. They were there-
fore shepherded and “folded” every
night; but as their numbers increased
and they spread-out on the western
plains it was no longer possible to
shepherd them, and the old style of
sheep-dogs—mostly the rough-haired
collie and crosses of it—now proved
unsuitable for working the large
flocks, especially in the summer. Two
squatters, Elliot and Allen, had
heard of a wonderful strain of
smooth-haired collie in Scotland,
bred by Rutherfords, and said to have
a strain of fox, influencing their
being silent, wide workers. Elliot
and Allen brought out a pair, and
these —Brutus and Jenny—contrived
aboard ship to present the colonists
with a litter on arrival —all of these
black-and-tan, except for a little red
that resembled a fox. The best of
this litter, a black-and-tan named
Caesar, was mated with a fine black-
and-tan bitch brought from Victoria
by a Mr. Gleeson. She was thought
to be a cross of the black-and-tan
collie with the dingo; her name was
Kelpie. Her litter contained one
bitch-pup which resembled her so
strongly that it, too, was called
Kelpie; and this one went to C. B. W.
King’s station, Woolongough, near
Forbes. At 12-months she competed
in the first sheep-dog trial held in the
Commonwealth, and won easily. Her
pups then became known as
“Kelpie’s pups”—then merely kelpies.
* * * *
(1) Process used to determine the
gluten- and protein-content of
wheat ? (2) Could a farmer with a
sound basic knowledge of chemistry
buy the necessary equipment and
make the test himself ?
(1) The gluten-test is done on flour,
so that when gluten-content of wheat
is referred to, what is meant is
gluten-content of flour obtained from
the wheat. A beginner should
acquire skill in gluten-washing on a
flour of known protein-content; as
the gluten-test is a simple method of
assessing the approximate protein-
content of flour, the figures obtained
in both tests should agree fairly
closely. Ten-grammes of flour is
made into a dough-ball of bread-
making consistency with water, and
the dough-ball allowed t*) stand for
about five minutes: prevent a skin
forming on the ball by sprinkling the
inside of a glass-beaker with water
and inverting beaker over dough-ball.
The dough-ball is then placed in the
palm of one hand and kneaded
gently with the fingers of the other
hand under a stream of gently-
running cold water. The washwater
is caught in a porcelain dish, so that
any small particles of gluten that are
carried out can be recovered. When
the gluten is washed fFee of starch,
the water in the dish is stirred to
bring the starch into suspension;
after allowing the gluten particles to
settle, the starchy water is poured off.
A fresh lot of water is added to the
dish, and the process repeated until
the particles of gluten in the dish
are free of starch. These particles
are recovered by rubbing the main
mass of gluten on them. The
gluten-ball is rubbed between the
fingers, and the fingers are dried on
a towel, until the gluten becomes
almost too sticky to handle. The wet
gluten is then weighed in a con-
tainer of known weight, and the
weight of wet gluten divided by the
empirical figure 3 will give the
approximate weight of dry gluten;
alternatively the wet gluten in the
container may be dried in an oven
at 160 deg. F. for 15 minutes and the
oven then allowed to recede to
130 deg. F. for the remainder of the
drying period; total drying-time, 4-j
hours. The weight of dry gluten
so obtained should approximate
protein-content of the flour. To
arrive at the determination, a
chemical-balance is necessary, prefer-
ably one with an order-of-accuracy
of one-milligramme; if the weight of
dry gluten is required, a hot-air oven
with automatic temperature-control is
also necessary. To determine the
approximate protein-content of wheat,
it is necessary to grind the wheat in,
say, a hand coffee-mill or small
hammer-mill. The meal is sieved
over a flour-silk, and the gluten-
determination done on the flour so
obtained. In this instance, it is
necessary to establish a factor for
the relationship between the figure
obtained and that obtained from
white flour milled from similar
wheat, because the flour will be con-
taminated with bran-chips, which
would be removed in normal flour-
milling process, If a number of
gluten-determinations are to be made,
this may be done on a gluten-
washing machine designed for the
purpose. Protein-content of wheat
or flour is arrived at by chemical
means, and is much more complicated
than the gluten-test, although the
figure obtained is an accurate one,
not subject to personal errors, as
with the gluten-test. The protein-
determination method is set-out in the
latest edition of Methods of Analysis
of the Association of Official Agri-
cultural Chemists, obtainable from
any leading technical-bookseller. (2)
The gluten-determination test can be
done by a farmer prepared to acquire
the skill necessary to obtain accurate
results, but purchasing the equip-
ment and acquiring the skill would
hardly be justified.
Brief Answers
P.P.: (a) Most unlikely, (b) No.
H.H.W.: The Commonwealth
Bank’s constitution has been formu-
lated and amended by Australian
Governments, both Labor and
Liberal. The central bank has a
monopoly of the note-issue (a most
profitable monopoly) and the right
to call-up “surplus investible funds
of the trading-banks,” including the
Commonwealth Trading Bank. It
has been frequently denied that the
Commonwealth Trading Bank derives
any benefit from the statutory
deposits made by the private banks
with the central bank, and this
appears to be so “E. J. Holton”
(Perth): As Commonwealth loans are
trustee securities, it is presumably
legal to invest counterpart funds of
international loans in public loan-
offerings. These are mostly used to
finance State public works. Presum-
ably, if World Bank loans have been
obtained for a specific purpose they
are used solely for that purpose, or,
if temporarily invested in Common-
wealth loans, can be made available
(as a last resort by discounting opera-
tions with the central bank or by
capital-expenditure out of revenue or
Budget surplus) when required for
that specific purpose 0.M.: (1) If
a male, the amount required would be
approximately £543; if a female,
approximately £650. (2) Yes, it could
be arranged through any life-
assurance company C.F.W.:
“Mac” (or its abbreviation “Me” or,
sometimes, “M’ ”) is a prefix in names
of Scotch Gaelic or Irish origin
signifying “son of.” It is equivalent
to the Norman “Fitz” in Fitz Maurice,
the Irish “O” in O’Grady, and the
Welsh “Map” or “Ap” in Aprichard
(’Prichard). A confusion with the
Latin magnus probably accounts for
the meaning of “great,” which the
prefix “Mac” sometimes seems to
bear... .D.M.A,: The highest price
for comeback wool in N.S.W. —and
world-record price—is 322 d. for
Viyella/A.K.S., sold in Goulburn in
the 1950-51 season J.K.A.G.:
Payment of endowment for legitimate
and illegitimate children is the same.
An endowee having the care, custody
and control of six children under the
age of 16 would receive endowment
of £ll per four weeks —payment at
the rate of £1 per four weeks for the
first child, and £2 per four weeks
for each additional child;.. .1.L.: A
copy will be sent to you. Also, it is
to appear in a forthcoming anthology
of old bush songs, edited by Douglas
Stewart and Nancy Keesing
J.S.O’M.: If the poem to which you
refer begins:
I have a rendezvous with Death
At some disputed barricade
When spring comes back with rustling
shade
And apple-blossoms fill the air,
it is by Alan Seeger (1888-1916), and
it bears the name of the first line....
D. 8.: The Duke of Edinburgh is a
son of Prince Andrew (Andreas) of
Greece and Princess Andrew of
Greece (Princess Victoria Alice Eliza-
beth Julie Marie of Battenberg); he
was born on June 12, 1921. He
relinquished his title of Prince Philip
of Greece and Denmark on being
naturalised in 1947, taking-up the
surname Mountbatten, which was
granted by Royal Warrant in 1917 to
his mother’s father, the first Marquess
of Milford Haven (or, as he was
better known, Prince Louis of
Battenberg).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
A.C.D.: If ever you sin again,
write on one side of the paper
0n1y... .C.F.R.: If you were as slow
at selling apples as you are at
getting on with the yarn, no wonder
you earned so little S.D.H.:
Why the wordy description of family-
affairs of no moment to the story?
E.F.: Your cats will have to
fight it out on somebody else’s
window-sill T.H.W.: No dough
for “Our Daily Biread”...
You use such tangled sentences it
is sometimes hard to follow you.
M.J.FI.: You sling a lot of
French and Spanish into it; but
the English is horrible N.M.:
There is the ring of hooves in it,
but it’s a rough gallop G.S.: We
waste one-tenth of our time reading
about how somebody knocked-out
his pipe, or tilled it, or asked for a
match! F.R.: Glad to hear you
are pleased with your new washing-
machine, but no space for poem on
fact A.G.D.: No need to explain
that “the characters are fictitious.”
Nobody would take them to be real.
G.P.S.: Your “wild and lovely
bird of freedom” is flying back as
fast as a postage-stamp can carry
it H.N.S.: Your ‘‘Ploughman’’
should have plodded his way home
by now H. 8.: “Heart-throbbing
like a motor-car” is a peerless line.
A.O’H.: Why doesn’t she adver-
tise for a husband? :
Unwanted, she pines in an Austral clime,
A sad lady calling, imploring alone;
Eer long aching wail of neglect in her
prime
Is unheard, and unanswered —now ’tis a
moan.
J.M.: Inclined to agree that it
was “written in a weak moment.”
E.D.: It never lived up to the fine
promise of the two opening-lines:
Come, come, cobbers all, fill another
bottle!
Australia ! Australia 1 Land of golden
wattle!
K.B.: The steeplechase-yarn fell
at the first jump.... A.C.W.: The man
who writes in faint pencil has only a
faint chance... .E.R.F.: No use for
verse about “the land of sorrow and
of gloom, where tears are rife and
sad sobs b00m”... .S.M.: Your
notion seems to be that any number
of words can be cut into lengths and
called a “poem”... .E.G.: If we
were compiling a book of hymns
it might go in. ...V.S.: “Whither
wilt thou go, my fleeting thought?”
Home L.P.: A new day is born
every day, and about a dozen poets
want to tell us about it P.8.W.:
Any verse that starts “Why didst
thou diest,” perisheth without a
struggle C.0’8.: That matri-
monial battle will have to be fought-
out elsewhere... .A. 8.: It sounds as
if it needs oiling:—
’Ttvas only an old bark humpy,
That was built beside a creek,
But it made my throat all lumpy
As I heard the old door squeak.
A.D.: Hard to make a lyric of
the Leader of the Opposition, but
there’s one stirring couplet:—
So it’s three loud “Hips” and one
“Hooray” for good old Dr. Bert,
The complexities of legislation he can
handle like an expert.


W*
////
/
m
MMSTARt
bnurtain you
w vouji homz!
EDUCATIONAL
FILMS
for
INDUSTRY
and
COMMERCE
• ECONOMICAL
• ENTERTAINING
• PRACTICAL
l
CINEVOX PREMIER
16 MM. SOUND PROJECTOR
This lightweight, portable projector is ideal for movies at home,
educational and religious films. It is lightweight (only 36 lbs.) and
packs completely into one case; there is no outside transformer—you
just plug it straight in. (240 volt A.C.)
The Cinevox Premier is easy to operate, film threading is amazingly
simple. Maximum brilliance and clarity in the screen image and
exceptional fidelity of sound reproduction are assured at all times.
the kodascope film library. From this library you can borrow all
types of 16 mm. sound films for entertainment and education.
CINEVOX PREMIER Price £199/10/-
(AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.
SEND COUPON NOW!
To: Kodak (Australasia) Pty. Ltd., 386 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me full details on the Cinevox Premier.
NAME
ADDRESS
Kodak
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
me Peebles of hotels
by
Geolt
Bingham
MR. PEEBLES was con-
tinually grateful to the
makers of duplicating
machinery. It was not
exactly that he admired the
actual machine, of that he was
entranced by the mechanics of
it. What pleased him was the
rapid and efficient manner in
which it turned out leaflets, and
Mr. Peebles wanted leaflets to be
turned out, in large numbers, to
carry his thoughts like winged
messages into every home in
Wirril Creek. Deftly, then, he
ran the roller down a sheet, lifted
it, inspected it, and placed it
with another hundred.
Years ago, he remembered,
they had to be written by hand,
painfully and slowly ; and then,
when the glory of the typewriter
burst upon him, typed in single
or with carbons. But even that
work had been tedious. In addi-
tion, of course, there was the
“Coolbucca Guardian,” of which
he was the Wirril Creek corre-
spondent. In the columns
generously provided by a copy-
hungry editor he had been able
to make small incidents appear
of great importance, and to add
dignity and significance to the
doings of friends and neighbors.
But however valuable the
“Guardian” may have been as a
medium of spreading good ideas,
Mr. Peebles depended even more
upon the personal touch of his
duplicated messages.
A/TR. PEEBLES, finishing the
hundredth copy, paused
a while to think on what he had
written. He had called a public
meeting. True, he had been given
no authority, but what of that?
Whence comes authority of that
sort, anyway? Mr. Peebles
scratched his chin with an inky
finger and pondered abstract
byways of philosophy and civics
... But he had warned his friends
and neighbors and he knew
they would be there. The people
of Wirril Creek enjoyed Mr.
Peebles’s public meetings. Mr.
Harding, the dapper postmaster,
would be secretary and Mr.
Peebles himself would be chair-
man. But, Mr. Peebles now
sadly reflected, they were little
closer to their original objective.
That objective was worthy. It
had come to Mr. Peebles as in
a vision. One evening, as autumn
had fallen softly about Wirril
Creek, merging its blue smoke
of a short twilight along the
valleys and the hills, he had
chanced to look towards the
Memorial Hall, clear against the
skyline because it was on the
rise of the hill, and trees about
it had been cleared away. Mr.
Peebles, who, because of his
afternoon reading suffered
about this time from a mild
amblyopia which somewhat
obscured his normal sight, this
evening saw a hall about which
were soft-foliaged oaks, poplars
shivering from ecstasy, as Mr.
Peebles knew to be the custom
of poplars, and, besides the oaks
and poplars, a fence. No fence
in fact existing about the hall,
Mr. Peebles was forced to admit
a vision.
Beautifully the hall fence
swept about the building, a tall
curving affair where the gates
were, and although lower as it
tapered from the gates, still
maintaining dignity of form, and
adding to the hall an almost pre-
ternatural beauty. It struck Mr.
Peebles forcefully that the hall
had never been done justice, and
that that sort of a fence
was wanting. Only for a
moment did his misty sight
allow him the transitory
glimpse of the wonderful —after
which he blinked, and the fence
vanished, leaving only the dull
sight of an unfenced public hall.
Gone for ever, thought ML.
Peebles.
FOR ever? No! A firm con-
viction entered the heart of
the evangelistic Mr. Peebles that
here was a vision which should
be given the substance of reality.
Mr. Peebles, in a way, was a
prophet, tall and sparse of frame,
with something of the same
visionary stuff in his spirit as
animated prophets of old. A
white spirit was Mr. Peebles,
burning amid the rural sloth of
Wirril Creek.
He set himself at the type-
writer and Wrote an article for
the “Guardian” in which he
pointed out that a fence of some
sort was wanting at the Wirril
Creek public hall. His article,
too, was not without some
results.
Mr. Brinall, the local store-
keeper told Mr. Peebles that
he knew Pat Reggin had split
rails and mortised posts which
he could not use on account of
labor and which were lying there
for any white-ants who cared,
unless Mr. Peebles hopped in
and got them. This only drew
a snort from Mr. Peebles, who,
far from wishing to hop in, made
his opinions of split-fences fairly
well known.
No, the freelance writer stuck
grimly to his original vision, and
would not budge a trifle, for
opposition only implanted it
more firmly in his mind. Further
to his article he had called a First
Public Meeting, at which he had
propounded his ideas. The folk
of,Wirril Creek, being fairly
polite on the whole, had not
actually laughed at his idea, but
without that sort of laughter
they managed to convey to Mr.
Peebles their absolute incredulity.
Mr. Brinall clung stoutly to split
rails and mortised posts, particu-
larly those of Pat Reggin, but
Mr. Peebles opposed any such
deal in local fences.
Then the Second Public Meet-
ing had been held, and a Third,
until the idea of the fence began
to filter into the minds of the
people. They listened to Mr.
Peebles’s plan, heard about -his
oaks and poplars, and the fence,
which smacked to them of the
impossible. They did exactly
nothing, and all the organiser’s
leaflets seemed a waste of effort
until someone suggested a
subscription-list.
TN Wirril Creek a subscription-
list is an insidious thing. No
one can place his name without
a fair contribution, and the cus-
tom is to glance over the list and
remark that So-and-so was pretty
tight when you come to think of
it. And in the long run just
about everyone contributes.
From a meagre fiver the
total ran to seventy-pounds, each
mite and otherwise being faith-
fully recorded by the local
correspondent in the “Guardian”
to the shame and glory of the
givers, it being in itself an
impetus to charity. As Mr.
Peebles himself commented on
the final total “No mean
effort.”
The money being in hand,
Mr. Peebles believed it remained
only for him to call a meeting,
place his original scheme, and
have it accepted. That meeting
he had called, but the local
people were strongly against his
project. The sum of seventy-
pounds they regarded with some
awe, and the responsibility
towards its right spending they
shouldered with severity of
judgment. What more, they
asked, would you want than a
nice netted fence, strong netting
with hardwood rails and posts?
What was wrong with good
northern timber? Outside of
fences Mr. Peebles could see
nothing wrong with northern
hardwood. Pruned box-trees he
thought excellent for city and
suburbs, but not, not Wirril
Creek. Against this lack of
vision, the iron soul, the flaming
spirit, the prophet substance of
Mr. Peebles violently revolted.
In disgust he closed the meeting,
tempted almost to abandon the
project, but the vision, and
seventy-pounds, would not let
him rest. The duplicator then
rolled again into action, and
leaflets piled up for distribution
by Mr. Harding.
MR. PEEBLES welcomed the
visit to Mr. Harding as a
sort of mental pick-me-up. Mr.
Harding measuring sugar to the
grain in his post-office store, neat
and dapper as his crisp brown-
paper bags, was prepared to
receive the local prophet.
“Good-morning, Harold,” he
said.
“Good-morning, Arthur.” Mr.
Peebles flourished a bunch of
leaflets.
“Exactly,” said Mr. Harding.
He tilted the sugar-measure
slightly, so that the grains moved
slowly towards their destination.
“We’ll get these out, Arthur,
but” He paused, dug the
shovel into the bag and eased
it a fraction of an ounce. Mr.
Peebles waited patiently.
“I think, Harold,” he said,
“we should give them an idea of
just what your gates and fence
would look like.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Peebles slowly.
IT was a grand Public Meeting.
On the night appointed there
was no lack of attendance.
Whereas, normally, a meeting
scheduled to commence at eight
invariably commenced at eight-
thirty, there was, this time, no
lack of early arrivals. There was
a sense of big things in the air.
What made all curious was the
fact that Mr. Peebles had been
missing these last few days. That
he had gone to Sydney all knew.
The matter of seventy-pounds
had also cropped up, but there
was a general disappointment
disguised as relief when it was
announced that that seventy-
pounds was in the care of the
Hall Committee and not to be
accounted for by the “Guardian”
writer.
The fence-experts were there
in force. Mr. Brinall refused to
move from his original rail-and-
post idea, and Mr. Percival, a
mild man at home, and a strong-
minded man abroad, was all
against Mr. Peebles’s idea.
The meeting awaited, with
some tenseness, the arrival of Mr.
Peebles, he being the chief figure
in this fence drama, and when
he appeared many an eyebrow
was lifted at the spirit of con-
fidence with which he entered
the hall. There was a sigh, a
slight murmur, and the meeting
was about to open. Mr. Peebles,
from his position on the stage,
viewed with enormous delight the
crowd which had assembled. A
prophet without a crowd is
always at a disadvantage.
“Gentlemen,” he said, taking
note of the rustle of bodies and
the creaking of seats, deeming
it to be music in itself, “gentle-
men, we are here tonight to
(Continued on next page )


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THOMAS CASSIDY of Marriekville
near Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that KENNETH
ANTHONY GRAY has issued a Petition
for Divorce No. 3290 of 1955 on the
ground of your adultery with BARBARA
GLADYS GRAY and you have been
named as co-respondent If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 15th day of May
1956 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from R. H. RICHARDS,
Solicitor, 2nd Floor, Manchester Unity
Building, 160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
in the State of New South Wales. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 67 of 1956.
TO WALTER LEONARD HERINGTON
late of Hotel Campsie Campsie near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales.
—TAKE NOTICE that NOELINE
HERINGTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 67 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1899-1954 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 25th
day of May 1956 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. WILLIAM HODGEKISS &
COMPANY, Solicitors, of 141 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
'
&
MM
■HI
.
i
¥M.
'
HB.
r* ** *»i
'
Mam
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
ANNOUNCE
THE BEAUTIFUL NEW W-l-D-E V-l-S-l-O-l
VAUXHALL
Once again Vauxhall sets the
pace for beauty and practical
styling. New functional style
features are the deeply curved
“wide-view” windscreen and
wrap-around rear window for
clear vision all round.
Vauxhall offers outstanding
value for money, with trad-
itional mechanical excellence
and brilliant new features.
Inside and out, new features
v attract the eye . . . new colour
harmonies and interiors styled
for deep comfort; new door
locks and window winding
mechanism. Relaxing comfort
for six with ample room for
luggage.
VauxhaU’s engineering excell-
ence is again evident in im-
proved brakes and easier
clutch action, while “balanced
ride” suspension and accurate
re-circulating ball steering give
cushion-smooth riding at all
speeds with safe, sure hand-
ling.
Choose the powerful, luxur-
ious 6 cylinder O.H.V. 23.44
h.p. Vauxhall Velox (List
Price £l,OlO plus tax) or the
economical, “happy medium”
4 cylinder O.H.V. 15.63
Vauxhall Wyw rn (List Price
£945 plus tax).
The New Special Value
VAUXHALL 10 cwf. Coupe UTILITY
23.44 h.p. 6 cylinder O.H.V.
Performance with prestige!
Sleek and smart . . . offers
important new mechanical
features . . . new brake effic-
iency . . . improved oil control
rings. The new Vauxhall 10
cwt. Utility (List Price £965
plus tax).
VAUXHALL
4 Cylinder Wyvern; 6 Cylinder Velox;
6 Cylinder 10 cwt. Coupe Utility.
* G.M.A.C. Confidential
Hire Purchase is avail-
able . . . ask your Vaux-
hall Dealer.
A General Motors Product
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BRISBANE • SYDNEY ® MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VCI/40
discuss the matter of a fence and
gates for this Hall.”
“Get on with it, Harold,” said
Mr. Percival from the rear of
the hall. “Get yourself elected
chairman.”
“Ah,” said Mr. Peebles, in no
manner perturbed by the laugh
raised. “Yes, there is the matter
of a chairman Now if anyone
would care to . . .”
“I nominate Mr. Peebles as
chairman and Mr. Harding as
secretary,” said Mr. Brinall.
THE election completed, with
scarcely concealed pleasure
Mr. Peebles arose to declare the
meeting open. Mr. Harding
having read the minutes, the
meeting began in earnest. How-
ever, Mr. Peebles had some
warning to give. “I warn you,
ladies and gentlemen,” he said,
“that this meeting will be drawn
out, prolonged and generally un-
satisfactory unless we stick to
the matter in point—that is, the
gates and fence for the hall.” He
paused a moment, and added,
dryly, “We are not here con-
cerned with the pros and cons
of certain forms of government,
farming, and marketing of pri-
mary products. I shall call any
member to order who proposes
to indulge in personal comments
or private grievances.”
“In other words,” said Mr.
Pat Hickey, who was well
acquainted with local customs,
“you don’t want no arguments.”
“The meeting, ladies and
gentlemen,” said Mr. Peebles
with gravity, “is open for dis-
cussion.”
Silence fell, not the gentle
drifting sort of silence such as
had fallen that autumn evening,
but the silence that is often
before a storm. The crowd
tensed in its chairs, waited
ominously for the first person
to speak so that it might break
in torrents of comment and sub-
merge ideas and plans in floods
of scorn, disapprobation and
laughter. For this reason each
was loath to be the first.
Mr. Percival arose. “Mr.
Chairman,” he said, and the
audience relaxed like a sea
against an unresisting shore, “I
am here tonight to say that I
don’t want to start no fights but
I reckon that whatever sort of
fence goes up we don’t want no
convent-walls.”
It was a pity Mr. Percival
started upon that foot, but the
meeting had to go on, and so
Mr. Peebles answered with
gravity. “No, of course not, Mr.
Percival,” thereby greatly aston-
ishing that gentleman so that he
subsided in his seat. Mr. Peebles
then said that they had heard the
speaker’s remarks and was there
any further discussion?
There was discussion,
naturally, but the flow of it Mr.
Peebles firmly and patiently
steered into correct channels.
He cut away the verbiage of
extraneous matter, snipped the
shoots of personal venom,
cleared the trailing and obscur-
ing creepers of personal
reminiscence, and insisted only
that his fence and gates be dis-
cussed. Finally, and with some
disappointment, the audience
sensed it was being robbed of
its usual verbal fight.
And that did not please Mr.
Percival. He arose and said,
“Mr. Chairman, ladies and
gentlemen, I propose that we
have what sort of fence we like.
I propose we have a cyclone-
fence and -gates.”
“I second that,” said Mr.
Hickey, whose ideas about fences
were not fancy.
Mr. Brinall, who resembled a
bulldog in many ways, opposed
such a highfalutin scheme. He
wanted to know what was
wrong with a post-and-rail fence.
Mr. Peebles reminded him
there was a motion on the books,
but begged to be allowed to show
the audience something which
might guide them in their
choice of a fence.
With that Mr. Harding left
the stage, and proceeded down
the central aisle towards what
was, on famous three-monthly
occasions, a projector-room.
Much as a rabbit disappears,
so did Mr. Harding become
hidden in the room, the lights
failed and the hall was in dark-
ness. Surprise was spent in gasps
until a light flashed upon a screen
which Mr. Peebles had succeeded
in unrolling. Mr. Peebles faced
the audience with a billiard cue
in his hand, and this added
height to his tall form.
A S Moses must have called
forth water with his rod, Mr.
Peebles conjured a picture with
a stumping of his cue. Mr.
Harding flashed on the first pic-
ture, which was Mr. Brinall’s
post-and-rail fence, and very
rural it appeared. It was greeted
with little enthusiasm. Even Mr.
Brinall was silent about it.
Mr. Peebles explained in
sepulchral voice that he had gone
to some trouble to have these
depictions executed. He thumped
again, and with all joy cried,
“Next slide please,” and in a
mingling of colors the old was
withdrawn and the new appeared,
this time presumably the sawn-
hardwood fence with netting,
but Mr. Harding had to retrieve
it and reverse it until it showed
correctly. >
Mr. Peebles did not comment
upon this picture, and forth came
convent-walls, serenely peaceful,
and enough to shame the soul
of Mr. Percival had he not been
a man toughened by lifelong
struggling with his wife.
“These, as you see. are convent-
walls,” said Mr. Peebles, and
offered no further comment.
He stumped, this time majesti-
cally, and into view slid the
scene which no audience could
have resisted. It was the local
hall, the very hall in which they
sat, but now it was a Hall. The
brush-boxes, pruned, which had
appeared in other depictions
were shamed by the oaks and
poplars that almost moved,
shivering their soft green over
the spellbound audience. Per-
haps it was that richer green of
the lawns which showed them up
as being soft, and the green on
those lawns never belonged to
the North Coast, but to the artist
only, but they helped. More,
however, than lawns were the
gates and fence themselves.
Mr. Peebles drank in the
glory of the scene, for it was his
vision revived or realised, a fence
that swept about the Hall, assist-
ing it to draw up the robes of
its dignity and ponder with
solemnity and sedateness the
matter of life and the world.
From its frontal facade it stared
calmly, even contemplatively,
from the surround of its fences,
down at the audience now seated
within itself.
i
“VT7ELL, well, well!” said Mr.
r ▼ Percival absently, and
aloud. Mr. Peebles, on hearing
that comment, cried “Lights” and
the light shone, and there was
Mr. Peebles standing triumphant,
the resemblance to Moses vastly
increased, the light brilliant upon
him, the eyes of the audience
slightly dazed, and there might
have been something of Elijah
on Carmel, as well as Moses
upon Horeb.
Any who felt inclined to
oppose the new motion gave way
to popular feeling. Mr. Percival
graciously withdrew his motion,
and proposed the new. He did,
however, ask about costs of such
a project, but on these points Mr.
Peebles reassured him.
Unanimous then was the verdict,
and all that remained were the
matters of tenders and com-
mittees and sub-committees, all
so remote from the glory of the
vision.
It was when this business con-
cluded, the audience dispersing
in a creaking and clapping of
seats, that Mr. Peebles began to
wonder. It came to him that
the struggle was ended. True,
he would write in the “Guardian”
of this triumph, but henceforth
no more meetings, except busi-
ness ones, no more leaflets, no
doubts, no verbal or stand-up
fights, no comments throughout
the district, no gossiping discus-
sion with every meeting of two
or three people. No more of
that.
And Mr. Peebles was ever so
slightly sad, as perhaps is the
prophet when he has scourged
the sin from his people, and they
sin no more.


Men of Law
Solicitors, BARRISTERS, clients
By R. D. CHARLTON
THE term “solicitor” is an
unfortunate one. It brings
to mind the story of the
stately gentleman who,
while taking a stroll, was
accosted by a lady of easy
virtue.
“Madam,” he said, drawing
himself to his full height, “do
you know that I am the Crown
Solicitor?”
“Howdydo,” said the lady,
“I’m the half-crown solicitor.”
In point of fact, a solicitor
is not allowed to solicit. Some
of the lesser luminaries of the
profession have been unkindly
and defamatorily called “ambu-
lance-chasers,” but the general
run have to obtain their business
by more devious and less
obvious means such as by
sitting in their offices and wait-
ing for it to walk in.
The American term “attorney”
has none of the unfortunate
implications of the other word,
and while, if the Hollywood
films truly depict the American
method of dispensing justice,
such method leaves little to
admire, in this respect at least
the American system is worthy
of emulation.
A solicitor is a man who
thinks he is never paid ade-
quately for his services. Let
solicitors congregate in a group,
and sooner or later the conversa-
tion will turn to the question
of costs. And by costs I mean,
of course, the remuneration
payable to a solicitor. Doctors,
architects and accountants
receive fees for their services,
but solicitors always receive
costs, and always these costs are
of an inadequate amount.
Solicitors will talk for hours
among themselves about costs;
they seldom discuss costs with
their clients, unless the clients
complain. Then they will go
to great pains to explain to their
clients that the scale of costs
applying in 1900 was so much,
that the statutory increase since
allowed is so much, and that the
cost of living since 1900 has
increased by so much, leaving a
remarkable deficiency in favor
of the client.
The client sometimes then
asserts that as a solicitor is
more-or-less a fungus on the
face of society (or in other
words, an unnecessary evil) his
remuneration should have
nothing to do with the cost of
living.
That really starts something;
by the time the solicitor has
justified his existence and the
reasonableness of his charge,
the client is only too glad to
pay the original account and an
additional charge for the solici-
tor’s explanation, and to escape
into the open air.
The strange part is that from
time immemorial solicitors have
been using the same argument.
In 1900 the solicitor quoted the
scale of 1850; in 1850 the
solicitor quoted the scale of
1800; and so on. It seems that
the solicitor, learned and astute
as he undoubtedly is, will never
catch-up with the cost of living.
Solicitors are adept at creating
atmosphere. Some of the
younger and less-experienced
men have bright new offices,
shining counters and shelves,
and comfortable chairs on which
to seat clients, but the old practi-
tioners retain their down-at-heel
offices with hard seats in the
waiting-room, battered desks
behind the counter, and rows
and rows and rows of tattered
and yellowing papers occupying
the shelves. The whole office
bears an air of poverty and
decrepitude. One wall is occu-
pied by volumes in half-calf;
the client is not to know that
these volumes were picked-up
for a song at a bailiff’s sale, are
hopelessly out-of-date, were
never of much practical use at
any time, and have never been
removed from the shelves for
the last 40 years.
Inside the solicitor’s own pri-
vate office, two of the walls are
lined with books coming within
the same category as the books
in the general office. The
dozen or so books which are all
that the solicitor actually needs
to refer to in his practice are
piled untidily on his desk amidst
a litter of instruction-papers
tied with red tape and docu-
ments sewn with green tape.
To add to the effect, a number
of black deed-boxes are
arranged more-or-less uniformly
on the floor, with names painted
on the top. All the matters
represented by these boxes were
disposed of 20 or more years
previously, but they are retained
in sight to assist in creating the
atmosphere mentioned earlier.
The atmosphere in question
is created for two main reasons:
(1) The general decrepitude is
to indicate to the client that (a)
the solicitor is too busy to
clean-up the general mess, (b)
the standard of costs is so low
that nothing better can be
afforded. (2) The array of legal
volumes is to instil the essential
awe in the breast of the already-
trembling client.
An occasional client gets the
impression that any solicitor
who can’t afford better offices
can’t be much good, and goes
somewhere else.
if he goes to one of the older
offices, and finds the same dilapi-
dation, he thinks the first
solicitor mightn’t be so bad after
all; if he goes to one of the
newer offices, conducted by one
0 f the brighter and younger
members of the profession, he
finds the waiting-room so empty
that he gets the impression that
the furniture looks new because
it isn’t much used by clients.
In the end he usually returns
to his original solicitor
genemi ak ofmusty as
he patiently sits on a hard seat
in the bare, cold and draughty
waiting-room.
One of the occupational
hazards endured by solicitors is
the tendency to lose hair. A t
an early age a solicitor’s hair
generally begins to depart; it
has never been authoritatively
decided whether this is due to
the hair-raising stories fre-
quently related by clients, to the
constant head-scratching while
considering a difficult point of
law, to the stuffy and congested
atmosphere in which a solicitor
habitually works, or to the fact
that grass never grows on a busy
street.
Whatever the reason, it is
an undisputed fact that,
amongst all the professions, the
solicitor’s head stands out like
a bald beacon.
A sight not often granted to
a layman is a gathering of solici-
tors at a convention; specially-
dimmed lights are used to pre-
vent undue glare from hundreds
of naked, gleaming scalps.
Although many clients don’t
suspect it, solicitors have at
times a pretty wit, which is gen-
erally exercised outside business-
hours. Like an old and
respected solicitor in a small,
sub-tropical town who, coatless
on a hot November day, in the
absence of a porter, helped an
old lady with her bags into a
railway-carriage. The lady, un-
aware of his identity, wished to
show her appreciation. The
solicitor waved aside the prof-
fered sixpence, saying, “Madam,
my charge is never less than
ten-and-six.”
It is in the convivial atmos-
phere of his club, when the
worries and frustrations of the
day are temporarily forgotten,
that the solicitor tends to un-
bend. He inclines a willing ear
to a colleague’s story, and in
turn relates one arising from
an incident which happened that
day in his office. Exhibiting the
glow arising from his relaxed
feeling and a couple of whiskies
under his waistband, a solicitor
has at times been barely recog-
nisable by a client.
It is not generally known that
most of the hard work j n a
so fi c j tor ’ s office is done by his
All the solicitor has to do
i s t 0 sit in his office and interview
c ]i en ts which as anyone might
realise ’ i s a’ very easy and
p i easa nt method of passing the
da y
Occasionally a solicitor might
a a document (such as a
££££*?“” f 'transfer of
& «hold land > if il “ involv f
docutien ikT® mortgages!
d ™£ } ea s«, granfs S of
easement and declarations of
by
trusll ly P re P area y
on e°t the stall.
If the solicitor is old enough
and lazy enough he can gener-
ally pass-on the interviewing-
work to his managing-clerk,
who, although unqualified,
usually knows a great deal more
about the law than his employer,
In such event, the solicitor,
after reading the morning mail,
is able to slip away to his club,
returning in the evening to sign
the outgoing mail.
Some solicitors, in an effort
to reduce their arduous duties,
either buy a rubber-stamp or
authorise their managing-clerks
to sign the mail. This practice
is frowned on by some Govern-
ment departments, which, rather
unreasonably it is felt, insist on
the solicitor’s personal signature.
If the office is big enough, a
costs-clerk is appointed; by
virtue of the nature of his duties
he holds a high and honored
position in the office and is in
frequent consultation with his
employer. Solicitors have some-
times been heard to say that they
do not know what they would
do without their costs-clerk,
while costs-clerks —as well as
other persons—have sometimes
been heard to say that they do
not know what solicitors would
do without their costs.
This statement is always
heartily endorsed by solicitors,
inadequate though such costs
may be.
♦> ❖ ❖
TT has been said that there are
two stages in the life of a
barrister —the first when he
wants solicitors, and the second
when solicitors want him.
A barrister is a man who
practises at the bar; when he
practises long enough (at his
clients’ expense) he becomes
experienced, and it is mostly at
this stage that solicitors want
him.
Sometimes he varies his court-
appearances by sitting in com-
fort in his room (called
“chambers”) writing an opinion,
Most people have opinions and
? om ® P e ?P le express them. A
t> a rnster invariably expresses his
opinion, and, what is more, he
invariably gets paid for it, which
\ s one of main distinctions
between a barrister and the
ordinary man-m-the-street.
bv M b a 7 ris l. s th are° P sub°s™u!nav
barristers are subsequently
co“soS
MrS 'w'th *e thought that
even the judges of the highest
ascertain
uuf ° my W — • as . c ® rlam
wh?ther . “ ° I ST II 5 ° r
wrong is to have the matter
tested m the court a procedure
much beloved by barristers, as
well as by solicitors
A barnster loves best a client
who wont pay as a matter of
principle. The client, who him-
self often has more money than
principles, refuses to pay, say,
the local-council rates, amount-
mg to £l5 6s. lid., because the
council hasn’t done any work on
his road for the last 14 years.
The barrister gives an opinion
that, bearing in mind this, that
and the other, there might be a
possible chance of a successful
defence on equitable grounds.
The council sues in the
magistrate’s court and succeeds.
The man with a principle at
stake, ably aided by his barris-
ter, takes the case on appeal to
a higher court, which, through
some fortuitous stroke of
fortune (such as the rate-notice
failing to contain a comma in a
vital spot) upholds the appeal.
The council, ably aided by its
barrister, appeals to a still
higher court, which finds in
favor of the council.
Thereupon, on counsel’s
advice, the man of principle
seeks leave to appeal to the
highest court of all. Leave is
refused, the man of principle,
having paid his legal costs in
advance, first takes umbrage
and then goes bankrupt, the
solicitor takes his cut of the
costs and retires from practice,
the council’s barrister takes silk,
and the council takes the unfor-
tunate but unavoidable step of
levying an extra rate of 2d. in
the £ to pay its costs of the
action which it won.
And the whole thing started
from a barrister’s opinion and a
principle at stake.
Barristers cannot take instruc-
tions direct from a layman, but
only through a solicitor. In
other words, a solicitor acts as a
buffer between counsel and
client. It will thus be under-
stood what is meant when a
solicitor is called “an old
buffer.”
The legal profession is
divided into two branches,
peopled by barristers and solici-
tors respectively. The solicitors
belong to what is called the
“lower branch” ; in other words,
the solicitors do all the dirty
work.
They obtain the evidence,
arrange for the witnesses, pre-
pare the barrister’s brief, do all
the multitudinous things that
must be done in an action. All
that is left for the barrister to
do is to go into court and bully
the opposition witnesses. To
his own witness, a barrister can
be like a cooing dove; to an
opposition witness, he can
assume all the ferocity of a
sabre-toothed tiger.
One reason for allocating the
barrister to the higher branch
of the profession is that he is
sure to be paid for what he does.
He is engaged by the solicitor,
who is honor-bound to pay the
barrister’s fees.
In some English-speaking
countries, a barrister is not
entitled to sue for his fee. This
is a relic of the days when
barristers belonged .to “the
gentle or non-mercenary stratum
of society,” and were expected
not to charge for an appearance
in court. At a later stage of
evolution they were allowed to
accept “gifts,” which were
placed in a small pocket in the
back of the barrister’s gown.
Generally, the solicitor, poor
fellow, has the unfortunate and
sometimes difficult task of
extracting costs from his client.
If, through some unforeseen
circumstance, there is a shortage
of costs, it is never the barrister
who loses.
In the less-civilised portions of
the British Commonwealth of
Nations persons are admitted to
practise as both barristers tind
solicitors, but actually the two
functions are rarely combined.
Most solicitors wouldn’t be
(Continued on page 34)


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chaiiman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. B. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
FOR SALE
BUZACOTT ENGINE, 6 h.p.,
800 r.p.m., in good order and
condition. Best offer.
A. BENJAMIN,
230 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Phone: MA2166.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Flyweight Championship of Aus-
tralia : Leichhardt Stadium, Thursday
night, March 15, 1956: Teddy
Rainbow (7.13£) versus Bindi Jack
(7.13). Referee, Vic. Patrick.
Decision, “No fight.”
Where the rainbow meets the
bindi,
Or vice versa, would a shindy
Worth a ringside or a bleachers’
in the famous Leichhardt hall
Seem a likely proposition—
One to fill you with ambition
To be joining in the “Fish-ohs!”
which the nicer patrons call?
Well, a bloke who saw them
reckons
That they did meet, with their
secon’s,
An’ Vic Patrick in the centre (or,
in two-up lingo, “guts”),
But before the time expires
Out crawls Victor, and retires,
Saying (in effect) to Bindi, and to
Rainbow also, “NUTS!”
* * *
In winning the weight-for-age
Carbine Stakes (2| miles) at
Flemington on Saturday, Dun-
sinane had to be ridden with
every ounce of Ron Hutchinson’s
vigor to stall-off Vernet. Wod-
alla was a distant third. How-
ever, a do no better
than win, and it isn’t wise to
compare w.f.a.- and handicap-
form when assessing Cup
chances. Melbourne’s best bet
at the moment in the Sydney
Cup would appear to be Sailor’s
Guide, but Dunsinane seems
nicely placed on 8.3. Vernet has
7.10 in the two-miler.
Melbourne stayer Pushover,
winner of the Australian Cup,
has been penalised 41b. for the
Sydney Cup, making her weight
8.4. Few horses attempt to win
these two long races in the same
season, and it’s a double rarely
achieved. Three stayers of
years ago to land both Cups
were Saxonite (shared first posi-
tion in the 1912 Australian Cup),
Realm (1907), and La Carbine
(1900).
At least one inter-State three-
year-old will most likely contest
the £5OOO Adrian Knox Stakes
on the final day of the A.J.C.
autumn meeting. Run over a
mile-and-a-half, this event is for
three-year-old fillies, and on her
runaway success in the V.R.C.
Kewney Stakes Arbolado might
take beating. Arbolado carried
9st. to victory at Flemington and
all runners in the Adrian Knox
Stakes will have 8.7. The Mel-
bourne galloper’s chief danger
in the Adrian Knox should be
Evening Peal, who easily won the
Sappho Stakes at Warwick Farm
with 8.7, and is Sydney’s best
three-year-old filly. Evening
Peal really looks the best in
Australia. She has won the
V.R.C. Wakeful Stakes and the
V.R.C. and the Q.T.C. Oaks in
succession.
A.J.C. Doncaster Handicap
and Sydney Cup horses will—
the weather gods permitting—
have their final public trials at
Rosehill next Saturday when the
S.T.C.’s autumn meeting should
prove one of the most attractive
for years. Entries included
top-class Melbourne and Sydney
performers as well as Somerset
Fair, owned in New Zealand and
trained at Randwick and run-
away winner of the Chipping
Norton Stakes at Warwick Farm
last weekend.
Winners of the Chipping
Norton have included such good
ones as Delta, Comic Court,
Carbon Copy, Bernborough,
Katanga, Reading and Defaulter,
and going further back,Phar Lap,
Rogilla, Ammon Ra, Limerick,
Amounis and Windbag. Bern-
borough (1946) defeated Flight
and Russia in a thrilling race, and
his time, 2min. 2isec., established
a record which still stands
This year’s Rawson Stakes
(w.f.a.; nine furlongs) at this
S.T.C. fixture has drawn what
should be the best field for
several seasons. Last year there
were only three starters, Prince
Morvi (now in America) winning
narrowly from Finito, with
Gallant Archer third.
Few horses win six races in a
row, especially handicaps or set-
weight events, but Half Hennesy
completed that notable sort
of performance in comfortably
winning the Autumn Handicap
at Warwick Farm. A country
galloper, he has scored his last
three wins at Randwick, Canter-
bury Park and the Farm. Maybe
connections are regretting he was
not entered for the Sydney Cup,
but this well-bred stayer hasn’t
done a two-miles preparation.
He may win middle-distance
events at the Randwick autumn
carnival.
Half-Hennesy made a lowly
beginning: at his first start, about
12 months ago, he finished third
in a Moree two-year-old event
worth £5. He was then unplaced
at the same track, after which he
was spelled until this season, and
he has now won nine races. A
gelding, he traces back to
Trenton on the dam’s side. His
French sire, Precotant, won 10
races in France, up to
furlongs.
Before racing at Warwick
Farm, New Zealander Slogan II
was not seriously considered a
Doncaster chance, but he won
the seven - furlongs Liverpool
Handicap in brilliant fashion
with 7.12 and has.4lb. less in
the Randwick mile. He has
won at a mile at Randwick.
Premise, who failed by half-a-
head to land a plunge in the
Liverpool, goes up 21b. to 7.10
in the Doncaster. Connaught
shaped well enough in the
Liverpool to give him prospects
in the Randwick mile, but at
9st. he appears to have his share
of weight.
“Horses for courses” applied
when Blazeaway, confidently
supported by the stable but not
given enthusiastic consideration
by the public, won the final
Warwick Farm event, the
Cabraniatta Handicap. Though
he carried top weight, he won
with something in reserve. He
has had 10 starts at Warwick
Farm for five wins and four
seconds. Blazeaway is trained
at Rosebery by S. Wheeler, one
of the younger generation of
mentors, who considers the geld-
ing a Sydney Cup show with
8.2. He has won at Randwick
at a mile-and-a-half with 7.3.
The £2500 Champagne Stakes
(six furlongs) on the third day
of the A.J.C. autumn carnival
(April 4) will give Sydney’s best
two-year-old filly, French Fable,
a chance to add to her impressive
winning-record—three in her last
four starts. The filly made short
work of her 18 opponents in the
Warwick Farm Regent’s Park
Handicap, despite her 9.2 and the
heavy going. L’Aurea, from a
wide barrier position, acted up to
smart track trials in finishing
third. She has yet to win a race,
but that might not take long.
It would be interesting to know
why Warwick Farm bookmakers
took a set against Somerset Fair
in the Chipping Norton, because
the handsome Randwick-trained
horse towered above rivals, and
had won the Queen’s Plate
(w.f.a.) in Melbourne a week
earlier. He had failed in the
mile-and-a-half Queen Elizabeth
Stakes two days later,- but last
Saturday’s field was weak by
comparison. Somerset Fair
eased from an overnight price
Of 2 to 1 on to 10 to 9
against, £nd some course punters
had big wins.
Randwick trainer Frank
Dalton has been preparing horses
for Norman Fraser for many
years, and another winner was
added to the list when Black
Simon easily landed a Canter-
bury Park Two-year-old Maiden
“Well, do you or don't you Want a return-bout ?”
for colts. Black Simon is a
stylish-looking colt by Gold Nib
(imp.), whose sons and daughters
have won numerous races.
Darby Munro landed his first
winner as a trainer when
Midswell, ridden by Ted Doon,
was successful in the Newcastle
Flying Handicap. It was the
closest finish of the day, with
heads separating the first four
horses. The crowd gave Darb
a round of cheers. Maybe he
will have more luck training
horses than did brother Jim,
who was also brilliant in the
saddle.
When the first yearling by the
imported sire Smokey Eyes, by
Stardust, was paraded at the
Melbourne sales keen competi-
tion sent his price to 2050
guineas, bidder being former
jockey S. Bourgoine, who will
train the youngster for J. Sexton.
The colt is a half-brother to
Winemaker (S.A.J.C. Derby),
and also is related to Don Pedro
and Precept. His dam, Crown
Seal, is a Hall Mark mare from
Lineage by Spearhead (imp.).
Smokey Eyes was a top-class
English performer, winning the
Goodwood Stewards’ Cup and
other races. His sire, Stardust,
is sire of Star Kingdom (imp.);
first-season progeny of Star
Kingdom won £21,302.
There was keen bidding for
the only progeny of Gabador
(imp.) at the Melbourne sales.
This was a nicely-turned colt
from Subject by Timanova
(imp.) from Subdued by Ring-
master (imp.); he topped the
first day’s prices at 2700gns.
Purchaser was Charlie Wey-
mouth (Mentone), who bought
the colt for a client who gave
instructions to make certain of
securing him. The yearling is
from a half-sister to Sublime,
winner of the New Zealand
Oaks.
“P.0.M.C.”: In a radio-ses-
sion, jockey Jack Thompson told
his questioner that he’d won 800
races during 19 years in the
saddle —an average of 42 a year.
Always a man of few words,
Jack was brevity itself in explain-
ing why so many “good things”
aren’t. He said: “Blame the
horse.”
* * *
In conjunction with Mel-
bourne’s Moomba Festival, the
Victorian Trotting Control
Board put on their Moomba
Cup at the Showgrounds track
last Friday night—with £lOOO,
a 50-guinea trophy and an
inscribed rug to make the event
attractive from both owners’ and
trainers’ viewpoints. One of
the original team of three taken-
over by F. E. Kersley in his
comeback after a spell as a
steward, Cneyenne came from
the 12yds.-mark to down Ardri
and Maori Home. When taken-
over by Kersley, Cheyenne was
a moderate country performer;
but Friday’s win was his ninth
this season, his eighth at the
Showgrounds, and completed a
hat-trick of wins in the last
three weeks. His mile-gait of
2.11 4/5 for the 12i furlongs
was sound; he is now one of
the slickest pacers doing the
Melbourne circuit.
The Victorian Pacers’ Derby
comes before the Sydney classic,
due in April, and so the best of
the Sydney neddies go down for
a crack at the Yarraside plum,
then return with a team of Vic-
torians and a scattering of South
Aussies and Westralians on their
hammer. Set-down for Friday
this week, with £l5OO-worth of
12j furlongs to be run, the Vic-
torian Derby itself drew nine
entries from N.S.W., two from
S.A. and one from the West.
+ +
The sadness and gloom in New
Zealand on the death of Opo the
dolphin was tempered somewhat
by the great news a day or two
later of a milestone in N.Z.
cricket history—the winning of
its first-ever Test. After its
trouncings by West Indies in the
first three Tests, it caught the
visitors on a “sticky” in the
fourth and last Test.
N.Z. ’keeper in the last three
of the four Tests was Sammy
Guillen, who came here with
the West Indies in 1951-52 and
’kept in the last three Tests
against Australia and in the two
also played against N.Z. He
came back soon after and settled
in N.Z. Guillen becomes the
11th player to have represented
two countries in Tests.
Guillen’s 10 predecessors, in-
cidentally, are: Midwinter, the
Englishman who is the only
player to have represented both
countries in England-Australia
Tests ; four Australians, Ferris,
Murdoch, A. E. Trott and S. M.
J. Woods, who played for Aus-
tralia v. England and later for
England v. South Africa; F.
Mitchell and F. Hearne, who
played for England v. S’Africa
and for S’Africa v. England
(Mitchell also represented South
Africa against Australia); the
Nawab of Pataudi, who came to
Australia with England’s 1932
side and made a century in his
first Test against Australia (he
later captained India against
England); Amir Elahi, who
played for India v. Australia and
for Pakistan v. India; and A.
H. Kardar, Pakistan’s captain
on the 1954 tour of England, who
can be singled out from the
others in that he is the only Test-
player known under two names
—it was as Abdul Hafeez that
he toured England with India in
1946.
, , , , I
There will be no overseas
cricket-team touring Australia
for the next two seasons; next
visitor will be England in 1958-
59. In the 1957-58 season an
Australian team will visit South
Africa. Which means that at the
end of next season two Aus-
tralian sides will be chosen—the
one fots S’Africa and one to go
to N.Z.'
* * *
“K.R.”: Noel Pidding, Rugby
League Test fullback and winger,
recently announced his retire-
ment, at 28. He’s had three over-
seas trips to England and France,
and was expected to be well in
the running for a fourth, when
the Kangaroos leave at the end
of this season. Pidding was one
of the greatest Rugby League
goalkickers, and thus was a pro-
lific points-scorer. For N.S.W.
against Queensland he kicked in
all 169 points, as against Dave
Brown’s next-best 117 and Dally
Messenger’s 116; and I believe,
though I haven’t any exact
figures, that the points he has
scored in Tests against England,
France and N.Z., totted-up, ex-
ceed those of anyone else.
* * *
“Selja”: Three Sydney Rugby
Union footballers competed in
the' Australian athletics titles this
year. Least-known of the three
as a footballer but best-known
as an athlete, Geoff Goodacre,
who won the 220yds. and 440yds.
hurdles. (He set the only new
Australian time recorded at this
year’s titles, 52.4 sec. in the 440
yds. event.) Goodacre plays foot-
ball with Randwick, as does
Herb Barker, who won the 161 b.
hammer-throw —Barker is a Test
Rugby Union centre. Third of
the trio is Manly and N.S.W.
centre Barry Roberts, who
finished fourth in the 120yds.
hurdles.
* * *
“Doynest”: A 21-year-old St.
Kilda (Melbourne) Aussie Rules
player, Mervyn Dihm, who suf-
fered a broken neck in a motor-
cycle crash last year, resumed
training the other night and had
an impressive work-out. Dihm
spent months in hospital, and was
told by doctors that he would
never handle a football again.
Now he hopes to take part in
this season’s struggle for the
elusive premiership.
* * *
With men swimmers it’s Aus-
tralia, the U.S. and Japan
who have all the champions. In
the ’thirties Japanese flying-fish
held several world and Olympic
swim records, and soon after the
war there was the great distance-
swimmer Furuhasi; another
worth mention is the Japanese-
American Nakama, wjio visited
Australia early in 1939 and for a
time held half-a-dozen Australian
records. Jon Henricks thinks the
Japs will do well at the
Olympics; and it has now been
reported that among the cherry-
blossoms they are organising in
various ways to try to put Japan
back on the swim throne.


Overall Survey
DEFENCE AND THE COLD WAR
By "EK DUM"
THE current problems of
defence for the Western
Powers are almost as
difficult as those which
beset Hitler’s opponents in 1939.
The solutions are, of course,
conditioned by experience, but
the thought and the theory are
not nearly so dangerously con-
fined as in that year of unhappy
memory.
Theory in 1939 envisaged war-
conditions born of the twilight
era of 1916-18, when war was
emerging—but only just emerg-
ing—from the era of the horse ;
when mobility was in its infancy,
mechanised war was only a
relative term, and air-power was
a mere accessory.
Theorists of the aggressive,
concerned with attack, had
reached the stage of thinking in
terms of swift movement, of
attrition on wheels and tracks.
A few on the opposite side to the
Guderians (who gave flesh to
such ideas of the aggressive),
were aware of this but
they were hampered by the
natural limitations which always
beset people who are not aggres-
sive. They were afraid to think
in terms of counterstrokes —
“defence by aggression” —be-
cause in democratic countries
politicians and others would not
have liked it. Their watchword
was “safety” rather than
“victory.”
Most defence thinkers thought
that mobility could not win
against massive entrenchment.
Hence the popular delusion that
any attack by land from the
German side against France and
other countries would bog-down
against the Maginot Line a
fortification which was a curious
tribute to political opinion in
Western countries. It was
believed that here the invaders
must batter themselves to pieces
against entrenched manpower,
which there would be ample time
to mobilise.
These beliefs were so deep-
r.ooted that Hitler was not taken
very seriously for months after
his earlier blows against Poland,
where he and his generals found
themselves a fine exercise-ground
and worked-out their Blitzkrieg
tactics.
The Air War
So much for ground-war—
massive obstacles backed by
massive manpower, against speed
with limited equipment. Then, as
everybody admitted, there was
the air, and this was the focus of
attention —too much so.
The German, French, Russian
and American theorists had no
doubt what would happen in a
major war in the air this time
—it might prove decisive at a
very early stage. Russian propa-
ganda-papers were full of stories
of single squadrons of Red
bombers (it must be remembered
that this was a period when the
500-pound bomb was a prodigy)
which flew out of Moscow in the
early evening and returned at
dawn, having completely wiped-
out Berlin.
When the test came in 1940 it
became evident that the British
had thought more on the right
lines and in the right order than
anybody else on the defensive
side. They had a just appreci-
ation of the limitations of the
bomber, though they had a very
neat programme of heavy
bombers themselves bombers
which later, in all types, led the
world, carried greater weight of
bombs with more reliability over
the necessary European distances
than the Bl7s and 8295. They
provided faster light vehicles
(Mosquitoes) for lightning raids
over the same distances than any-
thing else with wings. They in
time had squadrons of anti-
submarine patrols, if not enough
of them.
Altogether, the British had the
groundwork laid for future
operations on the basis that, in
these matters, only experience
could teach, and that, because
of the cardinal factor in their
outlook, they would have time to
get the experience from actual
warfare in time to win.
That cardinal factor of their
air-thinking was their priority to
(a) means of detecting approach-
ing bombers and (b) wiping them
out. The Battle of Britain proved
them right. It proved right their
estimate of bomber-capacity,
their wisdom in having a rela-
tively small Army abroad on the
Continent, the correctness of
their air-policy since 1935.
The failures were those of
others than the British Govern-
ments —the failure of France and
the Low Countries to appreciate
that the danger was common and
the task of defence of all a unity.
They failed to understand the
possibilities of mobile land-war.
The Germans failed in over-
estimating the power of the
bomber as a destroyer of both
material and civilian morale.
Their intelligence-service did not
detect the existence of radar,
and therefore failed to appreciate
the value of fighter-defence.
Mistaken in these matters, they
were unable to appreciate that
fighter-defence, and the experi-
ence of bomber-attack, would
give their opponents time —
having laid down embryo proto-
types of various experimental
kinds: Lancaster, Halifax, Stirl-
ing—to develop deadlier types of
bomber than themselves,, who
already were tied to static types
on which their production-lines
were running full bat.
The British built up a bomb-
ing-policy with some practical
knowledge of what bombs could
do in actuality, as apart from
theory. British theory, in fact,
dominated air-policy throughout
the war in Europe.
Behind Britain’s thinking on
land- and air-warfare, about
which it was basically right, was
the axiom of naval necessity. It
realised the need for limited
defence against heavy naval
attack, capital defence to prevent
invasion, and defence primarily
against the submarine and the
raider, its greatest peril being
from strangulation of the com-
munication-lines by which food
and war-materials were brought
to the island.
There were gaps between
Britain’s correctness of theory
and its ability to apply that
theory. And this was linked with
another element of both aggres-
sion and defence of which the
British Government did not
realise the potency —the condi-
tioning of public opinion. If,
following the depression —at the
crucial period when the time was
ripe to prepare defence against
the threat of Hitlerism—the
British Government (or the Aus-
tralian Government) had
launched a large and effective
defensive arms-programme, it
would have been assailed in its
own press and by the whole
of the Labor party. (The cold
war was then only in its infancy
as a technique, potent as it was
in use.)
In Australia we have had
plenty of this sort of thing since
the war. The establishment of a
rocket-range in Central Australia
was the signal for a loud-
mouthed campaign against “war-
mongering” and the danger to the
native tribes of the Red Centre
—who weren’t there to be
endangered.
Every atomic or hydrogen
explosion —except in Russia —is
pointed to as another example of
the brutal manner in which
democratic Governments en-
danger innocent populations
through radiation, or interfere
with the weather.
Propagandists
National Service is ridiculed
as useless, so as to make those
called-up feel that it is a futile
waste of time, and this propa-
ganda is extended to capture the
sympathy of employers and —
especially mothers. If the
Government decides to start a
large munition-works, the cry
goes up that it is a wasteful
squandering of money ; that it is
so near Sydney as to endanger
the city. Communist unions like
the Building Workers organise
special types of strike to hinder
construction, special wage-claims
to build up the cost: “site
money,” etc.
Spying is held to be almost
laudable. It is held to be loath-
some for the Government to
maintain a counter-espionage
service—even by Dr. Evatt, who
did not think so when he was in
office. (It is symbolical of the
attitude of mind which is being
produced in Australia that there
are thousands of people who,
in some twisted way, seem to
believe that the Government, in
revealing the operations of native
spies per the Petrov Commission
inquiry, was far more wicked than
the spies themselves.) The proven
seller to the Soviet Embassy
of contemptible and damag-
ing gossip about his fellow-Aus-
tralians, a man branded as a
cynical liar before the Commis-
sion, has been able to appear on
platforms to receive the cheers
of Australian workers and to
contest elections.
The “label” is cultivated. To
hear Dr. Evatt utter the word
“McCarthyism” is to feel that
that perverted form of patriotism
must be diabolically worse than
any bloody purge organised by
Moscow, far more immoral than
slave-camps, suppression of free-
dom of speech or the turning of
whole countries into prison-
camps—escape from which is a
capital crime.
In the propaganda-war there is
a new element, developed since
1939 ; and the aggressors have
all the advantages on their side.
Because of public opinion,
Leftist politicians and a soft-shell
press except perhaps for the
United States, where statesmen
are manoeuvred into positions of
attack, sometimes indiscreetly—
most Governments, including the
British Government, are afraid
to dwell on the full truth. The
enemy, through diplomatic and
public and press channels, makes
conciliatory approaches which
charm public opinion. Under
cover of those approaches the
fifth-column work goes on apace,
unrealised, uncountered, since
who in a democracy can interfere
with freedom or licence of pro-
paganda?
Any Government in the West
which spurns the hands of the
underground saboteur, which
refuses to negotiate with people
armed to the teeth and bent on
quietly encroaching into every
crack of Western armor, is a
“warmonger,” a “Wall-street
aggressor,” “flunkey” or
“lackey” of “imperialism,” or
“running dog of brutal jack-boot
capitalism.”
Governments faced with this
situation are hard put to it to
explain to the bulk of their
nationals how they can reconcile
their repudiation of the specious
schemes for peace (which would
strip the West of its power of
resistance) with their actual pro-
fessions of desire for peace ; and
why it is necessary to arm
defensively. They are limited in
what they can do by what they
think public opinion will stand.
They are faced with the same
problems as in 1939 in propa-
ganda to induce electors to bear
what is necessary in the way of
taxation and limitation of living-
standards. In teaching the public
the urgent need of defence
against Russian aggression they
are braked by scruple and
fenced-in by the necessity en-
forced on democratic Govern-
ments of trying to combat un-
scrupulous lying with truth.
They are naturally afraid to
spurn or expose the most hypo-
critical Moscow overtures, in
view of the general repugnance
to war in their own countries.
This, of course, is looked on
with scorn by the Muscovite
propagandists who carry the war
into “enemy” countries like Aus-
tralia. They have the initiative,
they have the incentive of con-
quest, and they have no brake in
the form of effective anti-sedition
laws.
The mark of their success is
that they have persuaded the
whole Labor party to adopt the
Communist line on defence.
They have persuaded the unions
to make higher and higher wages
and shorter and shorter hours
their gods, because they
know that this programme,
which they have propagated
everywhere save in America, will
weaken and increase the cost of
the defence of the country in
which they are operating and
ripen it for the world revolution.
They have taken advantage of
the weak laws, which treat the
Red-anting of the civil service
and wholesale spying and diplo-
matic sabotage as a sort of bad
joke. Freedom of speech and
writing gives them the chance
to oppose every defence-move
with a barrage of vituperation.
The Nato Picture
Leaving out the United States,
defence of the Western world
becomes more and more a matter
of what propagandists and their
followers will allow. The Nato
picture is not pretty. West
Germany does not wish to incur
heavy defence-costs. France, as
a defensive unit of the great
comity of democracies,* seems
to be a spent-force, its defence-
programme motivated largely by
a need for American aid, by a
knowledge that if it does not
ride with Nato its economic posi-
tion must become precarious and
the centre of gravity shift to
Germany. Its corrupt, careerist,
Socialist politicians wouldn’t
hold out against Russia for
ten minutes. M. Mollet, the
last of the long line of
minute-gun Premiers, praises
the change in Russian outlook.
And French divisions and French
armament-programmes wilt. The
French Communist party, with
almost a third of the members
in the Assembly, grows in
strength and impudence and
cynicism. Collaboration in high
places has become a scandal.
In Britain, for years, Govern-
ments have battled bravely to do
their part. Bled white by the
armament - programmes which
saved Europe during the war,
the people have unselfishly sent
their sons to conscription under
the National Service scheme--
not merely to do three months in
a comfortable camp, with beds,
but into the actual battle-line in
Korea. A vast programme of
invention has kept the British
ahead of the rest in the develop-
ment of war-machines and
weapons, taking it by and large.
But now the limit seems to
have been reached, judging by
the latest programmes. The
legions, so to speak, are begin-
ning to come home. In every
country in the Middle East the
forces of aggression have been
waging their propaganda-war
with success. The British have
been turfed out of Egypt, Israel,
India, Pakistan, Burma, and out
of Sudan, where the new
“Government of freedom” cele-
brated its liberation of the
country by sticking nearly 200
unfortunate tax - defaulting
cottonfarmers into a black hole
where they suffocated in a single
night.
Little Cyprus is a world issup.
If it belonged to Russia its fate
would be settled overnight. The
leaders would long ago have
been arraigned at secret trials,
at which, thinking of lacerated
fingernails, they would have con-
fessed that they were the
traitorous agents of British
imperialism. They would all have
been shot in the back of the
neck without mercy, and without
a word being said publicly in
their favor.
The minor organisers of
revolution and their families
would have been sent without
trial to labor-camps in Siberia.
Thr mere passive supporters
would have been massacred or
drafted elsewhere. An active
campaign against treason and
treachery would have enlisted the
sympathy of the world, which
would have been told that
Moscow had freed Cyprus of
colonialism.
In Cyprus the bulk of the
population favors the British
view of the island’s future; but
it is not the wives of soldiers
murdered in cold blood who are
the objects of a world-campaign
to invoke sympathy. The revo-
lutionists and their Communist
supporters everywhere hold the
centre of the stage in a world-
wide contest to make the British
withdraw, to win another victory
for Kremlin policy.
All this is bad enough. But the
results come closer home. As
lh 1939, both the United King-
dom and Australia are gradually
losing their teeth because public
support for anything like
adequate defence is slipping
away, and the Governments
show signs of retreating before
the onslaught. In fact, despite
foresight and British military
enterprise, the cold war is being
lost, “withdrawal” is the key-
word in every activity connected
with defence.
There are plenty of signs in
the Commonwealth. Pleas for
recruits for the forces, for in-
stance, are uniformly based on
enumerations of the attractions
and compensations of service,
rather than on the really dramatic
need for the existence of strong
cadres.
Men are asked to join, not
because of patriotism and
demand for them, but because of
high wages, amenities, etc. The
Australian Army is anxious to
publicise the supreme comfort in
which troops live.
The same tendencies are evi-
dent in lesser degree even in
Britain, whose troops in Korea
(Continued on page 34)


SJ'SIS
i
#,
X:
Qg>
-4-
/5r
my*r\
A
V
nn
aa
0
*
ir c
](?c
id
AVIATION
SERVICE
6*
JVC
W
gr%
The BP Aviation Service
is operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH
OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
{in association with
the British Petroleum Company
Limited )
6/5/55
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA AND THE OLYMPIC GAMES
r F'HE Soviet’s snow- and ice-
athletes lately outscored
every other nation at the Winter
Olympics at Cortina d’Ampezzo,
in Italy, and if “U.S News and
World Report” form-guide on
the subject is any indication,
Russian athletes will provide
formidable competition at Mel-
bourne this year.
“The way it looks now to a
lot of sport-experts in the West,”
the paper comments, “the Rus-
sians are very likely to win at
Melbourne”:
“Soviet tactics leave no doubt
about the Kremlin’s determina-
tion to win the Melbourne
Olympics. The Russians have
been aiming deliberately at this
goal for years. The whole force
and financial backing of the
Soviet Government have been
thrown into the campaign.
They’ve gone about it with the
large-scale efficiency of a nation
preparing for war.
“An army of 12-million sturdy
youths has been assembled for
this athletic offensive. Training-
camps resembling military posts
have been set-up throughout the
vast area of the Soviet Union.
“Athletes have been awarded
ranks, like soldiers, and are pro-
moted up through the ranks as
their skill increases. Highly-paid
jobs go to athletic winners. All
this has been done at Govern-
ment expense and under Govern-
ment direction.
“Some sport-officials in the
West have questioned the
amateurism of the athletes this
Soviet system has produced. But
none can question the system's
effectiveness. No nation has ever
risen so fast as a Sport Power —
from nowhere to the top in a
few years.
“Russia never before had even
competed in the Winter Olym-
pics. Yet Russians won the un-
official team-championship at
Cortina in their first attempt.
Since the Communist revolution
the Russians had never competed
in the Summer Olympics, either,
until 1952. Then they almost
beat the U.S. at the first try.
“If the Russians win at Mel-
bourne, Western officials now are
beginning to realise, the Kremlin
will have achieved one of its
greatest propaganda successes
since World War 11. And the
victory would be at the expense
of Russia’s greatest rival, the
United States.
“American athletes for decades
have dominated the Olympic
Games. Only once since 1920
has any nation outscored the
U.S. in the Summer Olympics,
and that also was a dictatorship,
Nazi Germany, in 1936. A Soviet
triumph over the U.S. at Mel-
bourne would surely be hailed
by Communists everywhere as
proof of American ‘decadence’
and the superiority of the Com-
munist system.
“What Westerners now are
realising is that Communists are
not the only ones who would be
impressed. Among millions of
people throughout the world
athletic skill carries enormous
prestige. It is regarded by many
as an indication of national
health and vigor.
“Not only that. Athletes are
proving to be powerful propa-
London “Daily Express"
WHERE WILL THEY TURN UP NEXT?
"... and our interpreters—Comrades Maclean and Burgess ."
ganda-agents, effective ambas-
sadors of goodwill. A champion
athlete can open doors that diplo-
mats cannot unlock.
“Russia, already engaged in a
world-wide campaign of ex-
changing delegations, undoubt-
edly would find greater oppor-
tunities to get Russians into other
countries and lure foreigners
into Russia if it could hold out
the bait of an Olympic-cham-
pionship team.
“Soviet chances of achieving
this goal appear good. At Hel-
sinki, in 1952, Americans saved
their team-championship only by
swamping the Russian men in
track and field. But since then
Russian men have set half-a-
dozen world-records in track and
field. Distance-runners such as
Vladimir Kuc, hurdlers such as
Jurii Lituev and hammer-
throwers such as Mikhail Krivo-
nosov are considered likely to
crack the U.S. track- and field-
monopoly at Melbourne.
“In women’s events, Russians
are rated supreme. Their
Amazonian women hold at least
10 world track- and field-records,
including the shot-put and discus-
and javelin-throws.
“Gymnastics, a big part of the
Olympic programme, are a Rus-
sian monopoly. Russian Soccer-
teams are the scourge of Europe.
Russians are strong in boxing
and weight-lifting. Russians have
won world titles in shooting.
“Soviet athletes have even
challenged Western nations at
their own traditional national
sports—and won. They have
beaten the British at rowing,
the Canadians at ice-hockey, the
Scandinavians at skiing. And
at Helsinki in 1952 they threw
a real scare into the US. in its
own game of basketball.
“It was not until the closing
days of the 1952 Olympics that
the U.S. team passed Russia in
the unofficial point-totals. The
final score was U.S. 614, Russia
553£. With the rapid improve-
ment Russians have been show-
ing since 1952, American sports-
men fear the 1956 positions may
very well be reversed.
“How has Russia improved so
fast? The answer: Russia has
turned sports into a big State
business. Like nearly everything
else in Communist life, athletics
have been taken over by the
Government.
“An All-Union Committee on
Physical Culture and Sports was
created with the status of a
Cabinet Ministry.
“Physical-training is com-
pulsory for every schoolchild.
Any child who shows athletic
promise is singled-out for special
training in one of several-
hundred ‘sport-schools.’ The best
of those athletes, in turn, are
graduated into higher ‘sport-
schools,’ where specialised skills
are taught by expert, State-paid
instructors.
“Trade-unions operate addi-
tional training-centres and
sponsor countless athletic teams
of all kinds. So do universities.
“Financial rewards go with
athletic success in the Soviet
Union. If an athlete shows
championship promise, a good
job is provided one sure to
leave him plenty of time and
opportunity to train. And the
pay has been known to go up
after an athlete wins an im-
portant international contest.
“To single out the best in
Russia’s army of athletes, local,
regional and national meets and
contests are held periodically
throughout the Soviet Union.
Nikolai Romanov, chairman of
the All-Union Committee on
Physical Culture and Sports,
recently reported to the U.S.S.R.
Council of Ministers that more
than nine-million school-
youngsters and three-million
trade-union athletes took part in
such contests.
“Avery Brundage, American
sports-leader who is currently
president of the International
Olympic Committee, reported
after a tour of Russia last year
that Soviet officials told him the
U.S.S.R. has in training four-
million track- and field-athletes
alone, with 800,000 other athletes
being trained in gymnastics.
“Money in plenty is provided
for this enormous programme.
The Soviet Government’s budget
in 1954 allowed 29,000-million
roubles —more than $7OOO mil-
lion at the official exchange-rate
—for health-measures and
physical-culture. In the same
year, the All-Union Trade Con-
gress announced that 600-million
roubles $l5O million was
spent from that organisation’s
funds on athletic training.
“When Soviet teams go
abroad, as to the Olympics, or
when foreign athletes visit the
Soviet Union, the Government
or one of its agencies picks-up
the bill for all expenses.
“By contrast, no Government
money is provided for American
Olympic teams. Funds are
raised by contributions of in-
dividual sportsmen —and some-
times fall short of the amount
needed.
“Russia’s motives in this big
sport-offensive are unquestion-
ably clear by such official Com-
munist pronouncements as these
two:
“ ‘The superiority of Stalinist
Socialist athletes over capitalist
athletes must be continually
demonstrated.’
“ ‘Physical-culture and sports
are not a matter of amuse-
ment, but a matter of State
importance.’ ”
Purges
The dismissal of Sergei N.
Kruglov, Soviet Minister for
Internal Affairs, would seem to
indicate that the lot of what one
commentator lately called
“Russia’s top cop” is not a par-
ticularly happy one.
The Moscow radio announce-
ment of Kruglov’s dismissal gave
no reasons or indication of his
fate, but, as Milwaukee (U.S.A.)
“Journal” comments, “the life-
expectancy of Soviet superpolice-
men, once they fall from favor,
is not long”:
“Kruglov is no doubt ponder-
ing (if alive to ponder) that
Yezhov purged Yagoda, Beria
purged Yezhov, and he, Kruglov,
purged Beria as recently as
1953.
“Perhaps it is true, as a recent
book contends, that ‘the purge’ is
an inherent and permanent
aspect of Soviet totalitarianism.
“Dr. Zbigniew K. Brzezinski,
in The Permanent Purge, pub-
lished by the Harvard Univer-
sity Press, writes that purges,
great and small, have marked
Russian history since the Com-
munists took-over in 1917.
“ ‘The purge is a perpetual pro-
cess of shifting, reshifting, elimin-
ating, pushing-down, promoting,
intimidating,’ he writes. ‘lt is
associated with the terror used
to frighten the populace, but may
range from dismissing a' man
from the Communist party or
from his job to exile or death.
It is used to provide an outlet for
accumulated tensions, to revive
and stimulate internal activity, to
make room for new blood in
party and State organisations. As
Stalin once said: “I believe that
sometimes, from time to time,
the master must without fail go


&
r
f,
m
lH
m
&
4 w%
trwd
(Elftß
fei"
MK
SB
*BSS
Wf!
wjmim
The demand i> > or
WHITE HO ME
Smoothness,
are qualities
true judge
Whisky • •
flavour and fragrance
well understood by the
of this superb Scotc
* Have you tried it?
through the ranks of party
with a broom in his hand.” ’
“The purge is essential to Com-
munism’s leaders, Dr. Brzez-
inski writes, because their
regime lacks the standards and
methods to encourage change
and mobility, and the close con-
tact between leaders and people
that are fostered by a Constitu-
tional Government. He predicts
that no degree of Soviet stability
will end the purges and their
violence.”
Malta
If it eventuates, the proposed
integration of Malta with the
United Kingdom, with three
Maltese members sitting at
Westminster, would (“New York
Times” notes) “start a new
chapter in one of the most
famous little islands in the
world, and it would also start
one more experiment in the
ever flexible, ever - new but
historically ancient ‘Mother of
Parliaments.’ ”
The course of integration has
not gone altogether smoothly,
however. After the proposal
had been examined, the Kilmuir
Report said that “it is for the
Maltese people themselves to
determine and demonstrate
clearly and unmistakably
whether the proposals of the
Maltese Government do indeed
correspond to their own wishes.”
In the resulting referendum,
with Prime Minister Mintoff’s
Labor Government plugging the
proposal and Dr. Borg Oliver’s
Opposition against it, nearly 75
per cent, of the voters showed
themselves in favor of integra-
tion. Only about 60 per cent, of
the electorate went to the polls,
however, so the affirmative vote
represented only about 45 per
cent, of the possible total voting.
The voting was further com-
plicated by the entry into the
political field of the Catholic
Archbishop, Mgr. Gonzi, who,
fearing the effect of integration
on his Church’s influence in the
island, demanded categorical
and permanent assurances in the
new Constitution that nothing
be done “either by legislation
or administration which
diminishes or detracts from the
prerogatives now enjoyed by the
Catholic Church.”
Failing to get a formal British
assurance to this effect, the
Archbishop issued a clear direc-
tive to his flock to vote against
integration. “A striking result,”
London “Economist” comments,
“was that, while the Archbishop’s
forceful intervention must have
turned a fair number of voters
away from integration, half of
his flock still voted in defiance
of his wishes, for which he
claimed the backing of the
Vatican. One must realise that
in Malta, the Catholic Church is
not merely dominant, but un-
challenged to a degree unknown
in Italy or France today.
“The Archbishop based his
defence of his refusal to parley
at a critical stage in the cam-
paign on the charge that the
Premier had shown disrespect
for the Vatican by publishing
without warning correspondence
involving it. It may be doubted
whether the Vatican has in fact
approved of the extreme to
which Mgr. Gonzi has carried
his political struggle. There is
more experience of these matters
at Rome. Fears may already be
arising of an open conflict
between clerical and laicist
forces for the first time in
Maltese history.
“Malta’s advance from
colonial status, already difficult
enough because of the island’s
economic dependence on and
strategic connection with Britain,
will not gain from such a con-
flict. In the atmosphere of un-
certainty and hostility which
now hangs over Valletta, this
seems all too likely to be the
shape of things to come.”
Other British papers are about
as divided on the issue of
integration as the Maltese people
themselves. Typical comment:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“If, as a result of the Church’s
intervention, the Constitutional
proposals do not receive a deci-
sive majority, the ensuing resent-
ments may well, in the long run,
lead to the very anticlericalism
which the Archbishop fears.
“Even had the islanders
declared themselves plainly and
overwhelmingly in favor of
integration, there would remain
serious doubt, from the United
Kingdom standpoint, about the
wisdom of a measure implying
a fundamental change in the
conception of our Parliament
and Constitution. To attempt
such legislation when the issue
still sharply divides the Maltese
themselves would be dangerous
as well as unwise.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“There is one way in which Mr.
Mintoff could help to overcome
these doubts. If he resigned his
office as Prime Minister the
Opposition would not be able
to form a Government. There
would have to be an election,
and the circumstances then
would be such that only the
politically indifferent would
choose to abstain. In that case
a majority for the Labor party
would be clear evidence of the
Maltese people’s wishes.”
* * *
London "Daily Express” :
“The idea of joining Malta to
Britain should now be dropped.
Such a break with tradition can-
not be contemplated in Britain
when it causes so much con-
troversy in Malta.
“But what prompted the desire
to send Maltese delegates to
Westminster? The urgent need
to secure a better deal from
Britain.
“It is up to Britain now to
help Malta replace poverty with
prosperity. The island’s
economy should be built up with
British know-how and British
cash.
“Malta’s long and unflinching
loyalty deserves reward.”
The Hanging Vote
British press comment on
the free vote in the House of
Commons in favor of abolition
of the death-sentence:
London “News Chronicle” :
“We must resist any attempt to
use the fact of abolition as an
excuse for arming the police—
‘replacing one deterrent by
another.’ One of the main
reasons for ending the death-
penalty was that it did not deter.
Yet it is undoubtedly necessary
that the courts should be ever
vigilant about the illegal carrying
of weapons, and that offenders
should get stern treatment. Our
policemen must be protected. But
to arm them would be to blunt
their strongest weapon—public
trust.”
* * *
London “Daily Herald” ; “The
vote to end hanging is a victory
for civilisation that can rank
beside the vote to abolish slavery.
It is a vote to purge the most
sordid shame from our national
life. It marks the defeat of the
stubborn superstition—long since
disproved—that it was essential
to hang people by the neck to
protect the community. The fight
has been a long one. This
country [Britain] is almost the
last in Western Europe to decide
to sack the executioner.”
* * *
London “Daily Express” :
“The no-hanging vote in the
Commons is a triumph for
emotionalism. It cannot be
claimed that it is based on
reason, for all the logical argu-
ment is in favor of retaining this
immense deterrent. Nor does it
reflect the public view. It is
quite clear that the majority-
opinion is against abolition.
Sympathy is on the side of the
victims. What, then, will be the
feeling now in cases of calcu-
lated murder by poisoning? Or
if a professional criminal should
risk gunning-down a policeman
in order to avoid arrest?”
* * *
London “Daily Mail” : “What
is to be the alternative punish-
ment? If life-imprisonment, will
it be the same as for reprieved
murderers now—anything up to
about 16 years? Will there be
some differentiation between
passipnate and cold-blooded
murderers? Will a Haigh or a
Heath be set free to seek new
victims? Or will such human
tigers be left to rot?
“What about prison-officers,
who point out that a murderer
could kill one of them without a
London "Time and Tide”
THE BOY AT THE DYKE
change in his sentence? Or the
police? Will armed robbers, free
from the fear of the gallows,
make their work more
hazardous?
“Our own [“Daily Mail”] view
is that the House went far ahead
of public opinion. Some change
in the law on hanging is desired
—but we believe it to be a change
short of abolition.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post” : “We should
have preferred to keep the
supreme penalty in reserve as a
deterrent against murderous
attacks on police and warders
and against the work of the
coldly calculating killer, such as
the poisoner. Clearly the decisive
influence in persuading members
to vote for abolition has been
recent fear that innocent men
could be hanged. There is a
dreadful finality about the death-
penalty. That indeed is what
makes it a dread deterrent.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“A sensible, fair, ethically right
and humanely administered
system has been sunk by a broad-
side of emotional sentiments.”
* * *
The same: “Nothing in this
controversy seems to us more
remarkable than that for every-
one who feels for Nancy there
are a dozen apparently more
moved by the sufferings of Bill
Sikes.”
• * *
The same: “Some would have
us believe that there will now be
fewer murders. In a situation
where statistics and human judg-
ment are so much in conflict it
is best to say that we shall wait
and see. Indeed, we should be
wise to suspend our judgment of
the results of abolishing the
death-penalty, not for five years,
not even for 10, but for 20 years.
Only when a whole generation
has grown up to which execu-
tions are things of the past shall
we be able to say with confidence
that this change is in fact an
improvement. Only then, pre-
sumably, will murderers now due
for reprieve be coming out of
prison. Only then shall we
know how safe it is to give them
their liberty.”
Various Voices
Sir Percy Spender : “While the
armed truce and the arms-race
continue, the world will always
have hanging over it the awful
possibility of war thermo-
nuclear war —in which the sur-
vivors, such as they may be, will
gaze only upon a world made
barren and desolate. It is against
these dreadful emergencies that
we prepare, indeed must prepare ;
for what other course is open to
the free world?”
Pat Hornsby-Smith {Parli-
amentary Secretary to the British
Ministry of Health ): “The nation
[Great Britain] is in a ‘have-your-
cake-and-eat-it’ mood. With one
voice they cry ‘Cut Government
expenditure’; with another,
‘Build more schools and hos-
pitals, clear the slums, build more
roads’ and, apparently, pay
everyone more, money. Some-
times they ask M.P.s to do both
in the same letter. You cannot
have your cake and eat it—and
we have been positively gorging
the national cake—for a long
time. If we do not stop we are
going to be a sick nation —
swollen with inflation, scarred
with unemployment, and seeing
all the standards we have built
crash down.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Undersexed ?
The main photographic features of a
Melbourne morning-daily would fre-
quently make Lady Godiva seem unpro-
vocative by comparison.
I am reminded of the yarn about a
seaman suspected by Customs. Far from
having any pornographic material, he
asserted, he hadn’t even a pomograph.
May I suggest that some press-photo-
graphy and some fashions are rapidly
making the pomograph obsolete?
There are too many half-naked
women —a slide-rule may prove me
wrong, but if I err, I do not err barely.
This general preoccupation of the press
and looseness of law no doubt fairly
reflect some facts of the market-place.
One might suggest offence against decent
morality or affront to the best Australian
womanhood, but that is considered a
medieval or at least Victorian-age
attitude. So let’s speak in terms of
economics and sex.
First, economics. High salaries are
paid to editors, photographers, composi-
tors, etc., to produce a wide range of
provocative material. This in turn pro-
duces some tribal discomforts. These in
turn we ease by a more-highly-paid
judiciary and an expensive police, penal
and psychological service, all of which
devote time, tyres, type and grey-matter
to the pursuit and “adjustment” of sex-
offenders.
On second thoughts, this may not be a
matter for an economist, but for a
psychiatrist. It is not at all clear who
is normal and who subnormal. A very
good case could be made for the virile
normalcy of any male who reacted
criminally to some of the stimuli applied
to him in the press and in the streets.
A distinguished legal graduate of a
leading Australian university once sug-
gested that the male who went in for
this kind of thing, whether as absorber
or peddler, far from being oversexed or
even normal, might well in fact be under-
sexed. I have looked, therefore, with
some interest to see whether these much-
featured but underdressed young ladies
in the press have later been criminally
assaulted in Collins-street by some aver-
age Australian male. On finding that they
apparently have not, I regard this gradu-
ate with a new respect.— Moomba (Vic.).
Penny a Pound
For over 50 years I have been supply-
ing various commodities to Brisbane’s
Roma-street markets with reasonable
satisfaction to all concerned. Lately,
however, I was bewildered by a letter from
the agent telling me that six tons of pro-
duce had been condemned for not con-
forming with some new legislation or
regulation.
The law is that from now on any
grower who sends bagged pumpkins to
Brisbane markets for gastronomical pur-
poses must mark /stencil his name,
address, grade, etc., on every bag, using
the letters “B” for big, “M” for medium
and “S” for small.
The price of pumpkins to the grower
at present is a penny a pound, and I hope
whoever thought-up this latest regulation
gets pumpkins for breakfast, dinner and
tea. I do—l grow ’em and can t afford
peas at 2s. 6d. a pound—E. G. A. (Q.).
Greece and Cyprus
Having spent long periods visiting
Greek churches and monasteries scattered
throughout Hellas, I have grave fears for
the outcome of the deportation of Arch-
bishop Makarios.
Like any people who have lived tor a
long time under foreign yoke—the Greeks
were occupied by the Turks for 300 years
—the Greeks are fanatically nationalistic.
The church has always been closely
identified with leadership of Greek
struggle for freedom. It was Bishop Ger-
manos who rallied the Greeks in 1821
for the war that gave them freedom from
the Turks.
Archbishop Damaskinos was the
symbol for Greek freedom during the
Nazi occupation and at the time of the
Communist civil war against the rest of
the community. Priests took up rifles
and fought with their folk against the
Nazi divisions between 1941 and 1944.
Whatever justification the British Gov-
ernment can claim for this drastic action,
I cannot help feeling that the deporta-
tion of Archbishop Makarios and the
other ecclesiastics will put the clock back.
—Cosmos (Vic.).
Flood Prevention
Of course, flood-prevention would be
better than open-handed and well-meant
generosity to the sufferers after the event
(B. 9/3/’56).
As clearing of country progresses and
more houses and sheds are built and more
roads are made, the run-off of water must
steadily increase. The rain of recent
years may have been exceptional, but it
is also inevitable.
A survey by some competent authority
is urgently needed to stop the loss of life,
livestock, production and general wastage
following the storms. Little can be ex-
pected from the present N.S.W. State
Government, which has been in office
for many years and done nothing.
Surely some plan to prevent much of
the devastation is not beyond the know-
ledge and skill of our engineers.—C.B.M.
(N.S.W.).
“Universities and Reading”
H. A. Lindsay’s letter (B. 29/2/’56) on
English-teaching at Australian universi-
ties, and more especially Adelaide, seems
hardly to square with the facts. Adelaide,
according to him, does not encourage
the study of contemporary Australian
writers. Has he ever read the Calendar?
He will find listed among the books pre-
scribed for study works by Douglas
Stewart, Kylie Tennant, Dal Stivens, Tom
Hungerford, etc. Are these sufficiently
modern?
With regard to re-
search, Mr. Lindsay
should know enough
about it to realise that
if Marcus Clarke and
Henry Kendall have
been selected by re-
search-students, this is
their own choice. It
does not preclude some
future student with
the necessary ability
from writing a thesis
on, say, “The Lot of
the Lindsays.” The
only objection to this
would come from the
Lindsays themselves,
who might object to
this premature em-
balming.
Mr. Lindsay wants
an English-department
to become a forcing-
ground for young
writers. But surely the
first duty of a univer-
sity is to give students
some knowledge about
the medium in which
they will express them-
selves afterwards, if
they have the necessary
inclination and ability.
It is certainly not to push third-
rata writing on to minds that have not
yet acquired the knowledge to discrimin-
ate between what is bad and good, simply
because the writing happens to have a
local and contemporary meaning. No
one at a university is ever discouraged
from writing Any university lecturer
will tell Mr. Lindsay that the difficulty is
to overcome the students natural aver-
sion to self-expression.—M. Bryn
Davies, Department of English, Umver-
sity of Adelaide, S.A.
“Safer Surgery”
James Holledge’s excellent article on
“Safer Surgery” (B. 15/2/’56) should
reassure nervous patients, but it may give
rise to some minor misapprehensions.
For instance, a surgeon cannot “take
your heart out in his hand” to massage it
“You'll have to go. Visiting-hour is over."
back into action ; he incises the chest-
wall, inserts his hand, and takes the
heart into his hand still within the chest.
Some may sew pieces of cloth together
for suturing practice, though I confess I
have never seen one at it. While such
an exercise would undoubtedly give a
novice the “feel” of the instruments, the
texture of living'tissues is quite different
from that of cloth, which could not
reproduce the conditions existing at an
operation.
And about the ability to “knit bones.”
A surgeon merely reduces fractures —sets
the fragments into their normal positions
—and his methods of doing so are skilful
and often most ingenious. Thereafter he
waits till the natural healing-processes
knit or unite the bone-ends, holding them
meanwhile in the correct position by
plaster, splinting or other means.
As for the “artistry of a fine em-
broiderer,” there may be fine stitches,
especially in plastic surgery, but the
embroiderer’s art is out of place in living
tissues, and out of the operating-theatre
few surgeons can stitch enough to darn
their socks. — Leech (N.S.W.).
The New Zealand Cross
There were a few errors in G. Stur-
rock’s comments on the New Zealand
Cross (B. 15/2/’56). This rare award
was instituted in N.Z. in 1869 to rec-
ognise exceptional acts of gallantry per-
formed by local militia, volunteers and
the armed constabulary in the Second
Maori War of 1861-66.
The ribbon was crimson, not purple,
and the cross was suspended not by the
ribbon through a ring, but by passing it
through a straight bar connected by a
“V” to the medal —as with the V.C. In
the eight provisions of the warrant insti-
tuting it there was no suggestion “that
the New Zealand Cross was to rank next
to the Victoria Cross.” Nor can I see
evidence that “Queen Victoria signified
her interest” or that “she expressed dis-
pleasure at the apparent imitation of the
V.C.” Displeasure, yes, but it was more
firmly based upon a Constitutional objec-
tion.
By Order in Council, Wellington,
March 10, 1869, “His Excellency the
Governor, Sir G. F. Bowen, with the
advice of the Executive Council ....
doth by this present Order institute a
Decorative Distinction .... and doth
make and ordain the following regula-
tions.”
The Governor, in forwarding this
dubious order to Earl Granville, the Sec-
retary of State, took the precaution of
remarking that “It is, of course, well
known here that the Queen is the ‘foun-
tain of honor’ and alone can institute
Orders of Merit and other distinctions
. , . thereby preparing a possible
cushion for a proconsular fall,
He judged rightly , for the Secretary of
state’s reply was a courteous but firmly-
administered rebuke. He stated flatly,
« Y ou have overstepped the limits of the
authority confide d to you by her
Majesty” and “I think it necessary to
point this out to you in order that no
precedent may be established for taking
a similar step hereafter either in New
Zealand or in any other British Colony.”
And quite a lot more!
By the time Bowen had read to the end
of this jobation, however, he must have
breathed more easily, for the Secretary of
State finished with, “But I proceed at once
to add that under the very exceptional
circumstances of the Colony I have felt
at liberty to lay before her Majesty my
recommendation that the regulations
which you have issued and which, taken
strictly, are at present void, may be con-
firmed. Her Majesty has been pleased to
accept that recommendation.”
I cannot see any evidence there that
“Queen Victoria signified her interest.”
If she did, it was by objecting to the
principle. Actually, the Queen was con-
fronted with a fait accompli and, after
forthrightly stating her position, grac-
iously gave in.
Those, briefly, were the official labor-
pains of the N. Z. Cross; but why was
the award ever conceived? Possibly the
assumed need for its rested upon a mis-
understanding. His Excellency’s accom-
panying letter mentions that Colonel
■Whitmore, head of the colonial
forces and the prime instigator
of the award, sought (in 1869)
“some distinction in lieu of the Victoria
Cross and other rewards of honor, rank
and promotion which are powerful incen-
tives in all regular armies.”
That clearly suggests the misapprehen-
sion that the V.C. could not be awarded
to local levies —and it could not at the
outbreak of the war (1861). To cover
just such claims as the Maori War might
make, however, an amending warrant had
been passed on January 1, 1867, whereby
officers and men of all colonial local
forces were henceforth to be eligible.
The Royal Warrant, in fact, specifically
mentions “operations which We have
undertaken against the Insurgent native
tribes in Our Colony of New Zealand.”
Benefiting by this amendment, Major
Charles Heaphy, Auckland Militia, was
awarded the V.C. (“London Gazette,”
February 8, 1867) retrospectively for an
act of gallantry performed on February
11, 1864. Was that fact unknown at
Wellington?
Colonel Whitmore’s supplication seems
to have been rather in the tradition of
Oliver Twist’s. For the N.Z. Cross,
awarded only to 20 whites and to three
Maoris, remained so utterly exclusive an
award that it functioned as a redundant
duplication of the V.C. and never pur-
ported to fill the contemporary need for
a field-service decoration.
G. Sturrock’s closing paragraph implies
that the N.Z. campaign-medal was
awarded by the Home Government
exclusively to the regular British forces
engaged. That is not so —all the local
forces, very rightly, received the medal,
too.—A.G.M. (S.A.).


Asia
“Plain Australian” (B. 22/2/’56) would
do better to urge the study of Asian
history in our schools. At present in
N.S.W., only a small part of Leaving
Certificate history is concerned with the
major Asian Powers. There is an honors
course on the history of the Pacific area,
but few students elect to do it. Inter-
mediate history only touches on Asia
where it illustrates certain aspects of
British colonial history.
What is needed at the L.C. level is an
extension of the course to include a
study of those countries which lie near
Australia —countries with which we are
closely connected through the Colombo
Plan and Seato. In the Intermediate
course there is need for a broad and
simplified study of the whole of Asia,
with European colonisation treated as
just one of the many incidents in its
history.
Studies such as these would do far
more to promote understanding than
would languages, which, in high schools,
can be made to reflect only dimly one or
two aspects of a country’s culture. —
Badiped (N.S.W.).
Tasmanian Education
Tasmania’s Intermediate examination,
abolished some years ago, was replaced
by what is called the Schools’ Board ex-
amination, which, to the uninitiated,
sounds like a one-standard exam, right
through the schools.
The private schools, however, objected
to the State Education Department’s
methods and instituted a Schools’ Board
exam, of their own, with university
examiners.
On the other hand, the State Schools’
Board exam, is set by the entrants’ sub-
ject-teachers, who, with naturally vary-
ing standards, can pass a child on his
year’s work, though the child may not
have passed on his papers.
While this method has its points, there
is so much room for abuse that lowered
standards can be, and are in many cases,
the result. University authorities have
noted in the degree-examinations a de-
terioration of standards apparently trace-
able to this method of examining.
Actually the State Schools’ Board
exam, is an internal exam., while that of
the private schools is an external one.
In the latter, intending candidates must
work within the scope indicated by the
university examiners; in the State inter-
nal exam, the limit of the scope is set by
each examining teacher, who therefore
is in the position of being teacher, setter-
of-papers and examiner all rolled into
one.
It seems a bad mistake, on most counts,
to have cut out the Intermediate, which,
by avoiding complicafions and confusion
of standards, at least helped to get pupils
into their stride for the State-wide univer-
sity-matriculation examination. Although
something may be said against exams,
of a set standard, especially where a cer-
tain type of candidate is concerned, no
“ Bungers—not candles!"
one has yet devised a fairer method of
general assessment of schoolchildren’s
knowledge.—J. M. E. (Tas.).
“Wackford’s” comments (B. 15/2/’56)
on the decreasing percentage of passes in
Leaving Certificate English apply to all
States —but is teaching the important
cause? In Tasmania, at any rate, the
shortage of qualified English-teachers is
not immediately apparent. The case is
rather that teachers with qualifications in
English must teach other subjects to make
up for the shortage of qualified teachers
there, especially in maths, and science.
I believe that home-circumstances of
candidates are the most important factor.
Today, more and more children whose
parents could not have the advantage of
five years of secondary education are able
to present themselves for the Leaving.
These candidates, many of them from
homes where English is not correctly
spoken, lack the habit of immediate and
correct expression which is essential for
examination success.
Also, for them literature has no part in
home-life, and they must rely on private
reading and the limited forcing that can
be given in school. Consequently, many
do not reach pass-standard, much less
honors-standard: they lack the back-
ground to do so. A few years ago matricu-
lation-candidates came almost entirely
from comfortably wealthy and/or edu-
cated parents, and failure could be
ascribed to laziness or lack of ability, but
not so today.
The Tasmanian system does in some
measure divorce English expression from
literature. For exam, purposes, the two
are quite separated, expression-exams,
being designed to depend as little as pos-
sible on a knowledge of literature. Fur-
ther, a pass in English expression at
Schools’ Board (fourth-year) level is the
only English demanded for matriculation.
In fifth-year, English literature is merely
an optional subject. It is interesting to
note that many more fail in literature
than in expression at Schools’ Board
level, where both subjects are attempted
by all pupils.
This might seem to prove “Wack-
ford’s” contention that pupils must get
down to their reading, but I agree with
“Sybil” (B. 15/2/’56) that young people
today do read widely. The fault, as far
as examination results are concerned, is
that literature-exams, have not kept pace
with the times. We are still trying to
make all secondary-school pupils adopt a
critical, academic attitude to literature
according to the standard of 30 years
ago, when many passed, but few enjoyed
what they read—at the time, anyway.
Today the accent is on pleasure in
reading, and pleasure cannot be measured,
especially in a written exam. Yet, to let
a few of our pupils enter universities we
must subject them all to the traditional
English-literature exam, and kill a good
deal of the enjoyment of reading that
the schools try to foster.
Finally, in places where English litera-
ture is an optional subject, I think that
what “Wackford” says about teachers
applies even more to pupils. A boy who
is doubtful about what course he should
follow is dumped into English, because
“anyone can do that.” — Pevin (Tas.).
Reading in Schools
Some Victorian schools are tackling the
reading-problem from an intelligent angle.
In place of one “set” book to be labored
over throughout the year, so that the
scholar will be able to “analyse” any of
the major characters, 10 novels of the
student’s own choice must be read in his
own time, and a brief review written on
each. The only restriction made is that
the selection be varied —not more than
two historical works, two science-fiction
stories, and so on.
Under the old system, usually some-
thing of Scott or Dickens was rammed in
indigestible chunks down the scholar’s
gullet, giving him a lifelong distaste for
Scott or Dickens and inculcating the
erroneous belief that good books were
dry as dust and therefore to be avoided
in future.
The new system means that excessive
time cannot be devoted to the study of
any one work. In other words, the student
sets his own pace and reads what he
pleases and when he pleases —which is
what he will do ultimately, anyhow, if he
takes to reading at all after schooldays.
And the writing of reviews provides
better scope for composition than the
painful production of “essays” on hack-
neyed subjects.
The same idea could be applied, with
benefit, to the study of Shakspeare. Half-
a-dozen plays, simply read through with-
out tedious delving into “sources,”
“characters” and the mechanics of the
drama, would be a far happier introduc-
tion to the Bard than the customary
exhaustive treatment of a single, and
usually badly chosen, play.—D.J.G.
(Vic.).
Radio in Schools
There are more difficulties with radio-
lessons in schools than “Wackford” men-
tions (B. 8/2/’56).
Teachers work to a programme, with
the year’s work in weekly parcels. Many
headteachers like next year’s programme
-—or at least the outline —to be complete
before the Christmas vacation. Teachers
in one-teacher schools, too, are often of
the same mind. Frequently the radio-
syllabus is not to hand this early and the
radio-lessons can thus clash with the
planned course. Inspectors are guided
by the programme, so teachers cannot
afford to deviate too much.
Some children live in homes Where the
radio blares incessantly, and they become
adept at shutting it out and concentrating
on private thoughts. The whole class
can sit perfectly still, and yet there will
be some who cannot tell a thing about it
afterwards.
Radio is concerned mainly with hear-
ing—not the best medium for learning.
To be effective each session must be pre-
ceded by sound preparation and followed
by teacher-supervised application. This
belies the popular belief that radio and
films make work easier for the teacher.
They are an aid to better results, cer-
tainly, but work and planning must still
go into the lesson.
The necessary repetition of the tool-
subjects (the three R’s), plus tables and
spelling, sometimes makes radio a luxury
in a stringent timetable. — Shorry (S.A.).
Crusades and Mouldy Crusts
Sydney’s evening-papers have become
self-appointed crusaders, and any real or
imagined injustice is sufficient for a front-
page splash of interviews and pictures.
Most of the tilting is done at Govern-
ment-department windmills Repatria-
tion, Child Welfare, Local Government,
Housing Commission are all feeling the
blunted point of the journalistic lance.
The injustice is usually one that has
been committed against an individual.
Someone has been refused a war-pension,
someone else is being put out of a com-
mission house for not paying the rent for
six months, or some bright lout has stolen
a couple of motor-cars and the inhuman
Child Welfare Department is placing him
in a correction-home.
Too often the story is published with-
out any check on the facts. Generally
the story is not untrue as far as it goes.
The misrepresentation lies in what is
left out.
A while ago, for instance, Sydney
“Sun” ran a story of a doctor whose ail-
ment had not been accepted by Repat. as
a war-disability, so he was ending his
days in an old-men’s home. The facts
given in this story were true, but any
one reading it would have thought that
Repat. had been responsible for the
transfer of the patient from the R.G.H.
at Concord to the home.
What wasn’t told was that the normal
procedure after diagnosis and non-
acceptance was followed in this case, as
it is in thousands of others. The patient
was removed to a hospital of his own
choosing to receive treatment as a pri-
vate patient. The hospital he went to
was a large city one at which he had been
an honorary for 25 years. It was this
hospital that had arranged his admission
to the old-men’s home —the hospital to
which the doctor had given 25 years of
free service. Yet Repat. was made to
appear the culprit.
Far from righting wrongs, the papers
are merely creating a public dislike and
distrust of Government departments.
They are bringing into disrepute a body
of people who, in most cases, are trying
to do a good job. — Rann (N.S.W.).
Inflation
People on fixed incomes are hard hit
by inflation (“Samzac,” B. 15/2/’56) but
advocates of deflation often lose sight ot
the tragic results it would have on our
“pay-as-you-go” economy. Our current
prosperity doesn’t look so good, either,
if we examine the insecurity of the
average man and consider just what de-
flation would do to him.
Thirty years ago the middle-class
young man could save enough by the time
he wished to get married to set-up house
and have a small reserve against emer-
gency. Houses could be rented, and
rents were low. Owning his own furni-
ture, with money in the bank, his income
met family needs without the necessity
of his wife earning.
Today there is little chance of renting
a house; he must buy. Few have the
necessary £lOOO required as a deposit
without mortgaging life-policies or bor-
rowing from relatives. His life-savings
invested, but mortgaged, he has incurred
a liability of some £l5OO. Furniture on
hire-purchase without deposit increases
this to at least £2OOO. He cannot avoid
such a debt and obtain a home.
Both man and wife must earn to meet
payments. They face life with all they
own and their joint earnings for the next
20 years mortgaged. The property and
goods they have contracted to pay for
were purchased at inflated values. They
seldom realise their insecurity or how
their equity could vanish and payments
off capital become impossible if deflation
took place.
Some enterprising couples build homes
at the weekends with their 'own hands.
They usually have to borrow to obtain
materials, and such homes are seldom
acceptable to banks as security.
Others share homes with relatives,
seldom happily. A lucky few obtain
rented houses or flats. The high rents
make it necessary for both to continue
earning, but any surplus money is their
own. The deflation that would ruin the
home-buyer would make their savings
worth more.
To the home-buyer must be added most
of the farming community. If they are
not paying for farms at inflated values
they are paying for new plant and
machinery. Deflation would hit them
just as hard.
Those who owned homes before the
war are well off today and mostly safe
from the threat of deflation. It is the
generation now setting-up homes, or who
have done so over the last 10 years,
who are in this dangerous position.
If an expanding economy is not main-
tained, and deflation averted, banks will
be forced to foreclose on thousands of
homes and finance-companies. The wide-
spread loss of savings and workers
homes, the misery and frustration, might
well mean the collapse of our whole
system. —L.F. (Q.).


When the knife is
tail lambs and to
used to mark and
mark calves the un-
pleasant job of dress-
ing wounds is un-
avoidable. In con-
trast to this the Elas-
trator Rubber Ring
method of marking
and tailing involves
no wound-dressing
and at the same time
offers' a greater degree
of safety and protec-
tion.
THE ROYAL EASTER
SHOW
23rd March to 3rd April, 1956—10 days 8 nights.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MECHANICAL HARVESTING
T AST year the Queensland
*- J Cane Growers’ Council and
the Australian Sugar Producers’
Association sent a delegation of
three—G. Quaid, R. Muir and
E. T. S. Pearce—to study
mechanical harvesting in
Louisiana, Puerto Rico, Florida
and Hawaii.
There has been a Mechanical
Harvesting Committee in the
sugar-industry since 1947, and,
as it happens, all three members
of the delegation (who are other-
wise prominent in the industry)
have represented their assoc-
iations on the committee since
it was formed.
There is, then, nothing new in
the concept of mechanical har-
vesting of cane under Australian
conditions, or, for that matter,
in its practice.
The Fairymead Sugar Com-
pany, at Bundaberg, has been
experimenting along these lines
for some time, and a substantial
part of the crop on its own
plantations is now harvested
mechanically. A number of
inventors Tofts, Moloney,
Hodge, Rasmussen, Kinnear and
others —have developed machines
which cut and top, and which
have found a limited application
in the industry. The C.C.
Engineering Co., in Sydney, has
done a lot of experimental work
over the last two years with both
canecutting- and load i ng -
machines; and C.S.R. is also
interested. The Tofts did ex-
tensive work on mechanical load-
ing, and, of recent years, several
manufacturers have produced
modifications of the original type
of front-end loader built by the
Mechanical Harvesting Com-
mittee to the design of G. Quaid.
In a lengthy report, the
members of the delegation
describe what they saw in the
various countries visited. They
don’t recommend the importa-
tion of any of the machinery seen
in Puerto Rico, Florida or
Hawaii, as none of this seems
applicable to Australian condi-
tions. They do, however, recom-
mend that “consideration be
given to the importation, and
trial under our conditions, of a
Louisiana-type cutter and a
loader with shaker-piler attach-
ment.”
The Louisiana cane-crop
normally totals about five-million
short-tons, and between 80 and
90 per cent, of this is cut and
topped mechanically. The pro-
portion would probably be
higher but for the difficulty of
working machines in the rows
alongside the deep drainage-
ditches. Nearly all the crop is
loaded mechanically, and “the
speed of loading with the modern
standard type of loader has to
be seen to be believed.”
Cutters are designed to lay the
cane on the ground in a way best
suited to the type of loader used,
and loaders are admirably
adapted to transport. Machines
and methods are “basically uni-
form,” although there are
different makes. Louisiana has a
uniform terrain: and here, of
course, there is a contrast with
the Australian industry, spread
over 1300 miles and varying
from intensely tropical to sub-
tropical.
The Louisiana canelands are
flat, alluvial plains bordering the
Mississippi, and drainage is one
of the main problems. Climate
is temperate, and there are severe
frosts from December to Feb-
ruary, in which young plants or
ratoon-canes are frosted-back to
the ground, and setts or stools
lie dormant until shoots begin
to show about March. The crop
then grown has to be harvested
by the following Christmas, and
the crushing-season usually
extends only about 60 days, mills
operating on a seven-day week.
The crop, then, is harvested
with from seven-to nine-months’
growth, and the cane is immature
by Australian standards, more
than 10 tons of cane being
required to make 1 ton of sugar.
But the crops average about
25 short-tons (equivalent to
about 214 long-tons) per acre,
with some crops giving up to 36,
and even 45, short-tons per acre.
Crops are normally erect, and
so are suitable for mechanical
harvesting. But in the 1945
season there was a fair amount
of lodged cane, and one manu-
facturer fitted pick-up attach-
ments to about 50 machines.
Further modifications to pick-up
attachments were made last year.
Cane is planted in rows 6ft.
apart, and the rows are hilled to
a height of about 18in. above the
interspaces. Ridges are formed
before planting, and are, of
course, necessary because of the
wet condition of the soil and the
fact that setts or stools have to lie
dormant for about three months.
Even before mechanical harvest-
ing, 6ft. interspaces were the
general rule in Louisiana, but the
designing of machines to fit
these measurements has made the
spacing uniform. The deep drain-
age-ditches occur at intervals of
from 10 to 20 rows.
The canecutting-machines have
naturally been designed to lay
the cut cane across the inter-
spaces, with the ends lying on
the ridges, leaving bundling to be
done by the loading-machine.
The cutting-machines have chain-
conveyor attachments which can
carry the cut cane out to one
'side of the row being cut, and
thus lay a number of rows of
cane across one interspace. By
a procedure known as circling,
the machines can lay six or eight
rows of cane across one inter-
space ; without it, three or four
rows are laid in one heap-row.
The machines, then, leave a mat
of cane to be handled by the
loaders.
The cane is nearly always cut
green by the machines and is
burnt on the ground before
loading.
The high ridging, which would
make the use of portable tram-
lines impracticable, also virtu-
ally eliminates the use of stand-
ard motor-trucks. So high-
wheeled, rubber-tyred, sided
carts are used, drawn by high-
clearance tractors.
The loaders form their own
bundles by piling the mat of cane
as they move forward, very much
like the Australian type of front-
end loader. The thickness of the
mat and the depth of the inter-
spaces enables bundles up to
14001 b. to be piled without much
travel. The grab is then closed
on the bundle, it is lifted and
swung out to the side of the
machine, the grab is opened, and
the cane drops into the cart,
which is hauled parallel to the
loader. The cane is dropped
lengthwise, falling into chain-
slings. Each cart carries about
24 to 34 tons of cane.
The whole process works
smoothly, with a very high speed
of loading if the supply of carts
is kept up to the loader. The
larger machines can, under
favorable conditions, load up to
500 short-tons in a nine-hour
day.
From the loading-station, cane
is transported by road in 15- to
20-ton trailer-box trucks (what
we would call semi-trailers,
pulled by prime-movers.) At
the mill, the semi-trailers are un-
loaded by grab, and the load
goes to the feeding-table; or is
dumped on the cane-heap to go
there later.
Quaid, Muir and Pearce make
the comment that the Fairymead
type of machine does quite good
work in Australia, but the
bundles dropped by it are not
suitably placed for handling with
a front-end loader. So they
operate with jib-type loaders.
But now that the much cheaper
front-end loader has been
developed, they think it a good
idea to try-out the Louisiana-
type cutter, which lays the cane
in a position suitable for
handling with a front-end loader.
The machines are “far too
expensive” for the average
Queensland and N.S.W. cane-
farmer to buy. But mills, or
groups, or harvesting contractors
could own them, and, in an
emergency, cut on a number of
farms in one day (they are quite
mobile), leaving the farmer to
load mechanically: “A job that
can be done with comparatively
cheap equipment and a minimum
of manpower.”
Regarding mechanisation in
geperal, the members of the dele-
gation warn that there are hidden
costs, and that, wherever it has
been introduced, the impetus has
come from shortage of man-
power rather than from the pro-
spect of cheaper harvesting.
They also emphasise that it is.
highly probable that there would
have to be all sorts of modifica-
tions to Australian conditions.
Still, the whole subject seems
well worth further investigating.
Early Lamb-weaning
“Billjim”: According to Rua-
kura (N.Z.) experts J. D. C. Scott
and J. C. Gerring, weaning of
lambs much earlier than is
normally practised could be the
key to a much more efficient
system of management of pro-
duction.
These experts have come to
the following conclusions which
they recommend for all fat-
lamb properties:
Wean all lambs when feed is
becoming short.
Wean them on to a paddock
containing a short, leafy bite
(clover-dominant pastures and
the aftermath of hay-crops pro-
vide excellent fattening).
Rotationally graze the early-
weaned ewes on a small propor-
tion of the farm to save feed and
prevent them from becoming
excessively fat.
Send fat cull-ewes to the
freezing-works as soon as pos-
sible.
So far as hill-properties are
concerned, Scott and Gerring
advise weaning all lambs about
34- months after lambing (par-
ticularly if there is a shortage of
feed), placing them on spelled
paddocks, and cleaning-out the
rough and weedy paddocks with
the ewe-flock.
They emphasise that if maxi-
mum lamb-growth, good weight-
gains by cattle, a high lambing-
percentage and satisfactory
pasture- and weed-control are to
be maintained, weaning should
take place before most of the
feed-supplies have been con-
sumed by the ewe-flock.
Points for any flock-owner to
consider are:
Will early weaning enable
more total feed to be grown?
Will the feed usually available
at this time of the year to be used
more profitably by restricting the
intake of ewes and using the feed
saved for lambs and cattle, and,
later, for flushing the ewes before
and during mating?
Will the weaned lambs do well
without their mothers?
Will the deliberate reduction
in the amount of feed allowed
“Yes, you’ll find a very backward and uncivilised tribe
about two miles further on.”
the ewes have any adverse effect
on their subsequent breeding-
performance or on the total
wool-growth and -quality?
Will early weaning confer any
advantages or impose any diffi-
culties in the day-to-day handling
of the flock or on the manage-
ment-policy generally?
Nitrogen for Legumes
“Columbia”: Although
legumes such as peas, lucerne
and sub.-clover are famous for
their ability to fix nitrogen in the
soil, and we know that a nitro-
genous fertiliser such as sulphate-
of-ammonia can kill clovers in
lawns, research-workers are find-
ing that, at some stages of
growth, legumes can benefit from
nitrogen.
Giobel, of New Jersey
(U.S.A.), has pointed to the value
of nitrogenous fertilisers to start
young legumes growing strongly
so that they will begin to fix
nitrogen themselves earlier than
otherwise.
He has found this to be
specially valuable in poor soils
where there is not much natural
nitrogen. It is thought that
nitrogen helps the legume to
absorb minerals and plant-foods
more quickly and easily.
Experience in parts of Vic-
toria suggests that nitrogen
might stimulate winter-growth of
pasture^ —even those which con-
tain legumes.
Neither of these developments
has been recommended to
farmers yet, but they could be
valuable ways of stimulating
even better pasture-growth in
future.
Importing of Plants
“L.C.”: Importing of plants
(B. 1/2/’56) can be undertaken
by any individual without loss
if certain regulations are
observed.
At the outset the matter should
be discussed with the quarantine-
department of the State’s Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
If doubts arise concerning the
plant’s desirability, its history
may be sought from the Chief
State Botanist.
Given this clearance, arrange-
ments for the quarantining of the
plant must be made in advance.
Usually this is undertaken by
a commercial nursery favorably
known to the quarantine
authorities or, in the case of a
plant of national value, by the
Botanic Gardens of a State.
The period of quarantine is
usually 12 months, though the
term may be extended until the
authorities are satisfied the plants
are disease-free.
Fruit-fly
“M.F.D.”: Recent wet
weather has demonstrated the
need for a fruit-fly poison that
will withstand moisture.
From mid-December I
splashed the poison (recom-
mended by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture) on the
foliage of my tomato-crop every
two or three days, and some-
times oftener, and kept the fruit
wholly free of infestation. But
with the almost-hourly rainfalls
which began in February I found
it impossible, or completely use-
less, to follow the same routine,
with the result that the fruit soon
became infected and I lost all
my late crop.
If the poison recommended by
the department were even
mildly rain-resistant it would
help a great deal, but I am con-
vinced, from observation, that it


THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f 0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £l/16/-
6 months 18/6
3 months 9/6
British Empire .... £2 Foreign .... £2/10/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
"The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
Nothing cooks as well as an AG A
5*2
M
7u
Pt
...and
no cooker
costs less in the long run
Cooking on an AGA
is a housewife’s dream
• Your AGA has two hot plates and two
ovens—one for baking and roasting—the
other for simmering. • Even oven heat
guarantees fine cooking—just like a baker’s
brick oven. You can go out for the day
leaving the dinner in the simmering oven.
• Thermostatically controlled the temper-
atures are always right: no pre-heating is
necessary. Put your dishes straight into the
oven. • Hot plates —boiling and simmering—
take three eight-pint saucepans on each. You
can boil a 4-pint kettle of water in 4 minutes.
• Dishes can be left to simmer for 24 hours
without any possibility of burning or thicken-
ing. • So reliable —that from all cookers
offering, the Australian Antarctic Expedition
chose AGAs for all their bases.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY
to your nearest capital city
Please send me complete details free and
without obligation: —
The AGA is the most
economical cooker in the world . . •
• No matter how often you cook, or how
many you cook for, AGA is guaranteed
not to burn more than a specified small
amount of coke. Over the years, this repre-
sents really big fuel savings and more than
compensates for AGA’s higher initial cost.
• 10 years’ guarantee means that actually
you get a lifetime of service from your AGA.
• Hot water at will—the AGA is not only a
superlative cooker, but will provide a
continuous supply of hot water to sink,
bathroom and laundry. • Included in the
price of the AGA is a wonderful set of
cooking utensils with specially machined
bases. • Easy terms are available. Fuel savings
provide a substantial part of your payments.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
51-57 GOULBURN ST\, SYDNEY
432 BOURKE ST.. MELBOURNE
113 GRENFELL ST., ADELAIDE
CNR. MARGARET & ALBERT STS., BRISBANE
MALLOCH BROS,
5» WILLIAM ST., PERTH
Ft BO
washes-off with the first fall; if
half-an-hour of sunshine follows,
or if there is a fine warm break
even without the sun, the fruit-
fly becomes busy and undoes all
the grower’s work of preceding
weeks.
Years ago the department
recommended glass traps con-
taining a lure, but later discarded
them as being of little value. I
used these traps for some years
and, contrary to the department’s
experience, had a high opinion
of their value. I used to empty
them two or three times a week
and found they contained
thousands of flies of all types —
blow-flies, house-flies and fruit-
flies.
The only real disadvantage the
traps had, in my experience, was
that, being made of glass, they
were easily breakable. Now
that they are on the market in
plastic I intend to try them again
next year, in addition to splash-
ing poison on the foliage. The
traps have the great advantage
that rain does not interfere with
them.
“Gee”: W.A. Department of
Agriculture has recorded three
new hosts for the Mediterranean
fruit-fly (Ceratitis capitata) —
tomatoes, olives and walnuts.
Fortunately, infestation has been
noted in only a few isolated
cases.
In 1955 the February rainfall
was an all-time record of 6-1-in.
(previous average less than |in.).
It is suggested, and hoped, that
these new infestations have
simply been a manifestation of
increased fly-activity following
such unusual downpours, and
that with a return to normal
conditions the fly will not become
a serious menace to the State’s
economically important tomato-
crop.
The next few tomato-crops are
to receive more than usual
attention from Government
entomologists.
Colic in Horses
“Bill C.”: Horse-colic is
usually preventable, though
there’s no doubt some nervous,
highly-strung horses are more
susceptible to it than quieter
types. It can drag on in a
chronic form and repeat often,
or a horse may have but one
attack in its life. Many horses
never have colic.
The quick, excitable feeder
may be more-or-less constantly
suffering from colic. To slow-up
his bolting of food, feed him
only small quantities of chaff at
a time. A small feedbox helps.
Another cause of lingering colic
is uneven teeth, leading to poor
mastication of feed.
The acute form which can
cause death, comes on very
suddenly, the horse looking
round at his flanks and showing
signs of pain. He may throw
himself about and roll wildly on
the ground, causing serious
internal injury.
In the less-severe form, the
horse merely stretches-out on the
ground, often rising apparently
well in two hours or so. This
form is often caused by the
animal drinking a large amount
of water when hot and sweating
after a morning’s work. It is
also often associated with the
horse bating wild passion-vines
and the like.
A remedy much used for treat-
ing colic in Queensland consists
of raw linseed-oil, 1 pint,
and chloral-hydrate, loz. The
materials should be kept on
hand, and the drench given as
soon as the horse shows signs of
cramps.
Another cause of colic-
symptoms in working-horses is
retention of urine. If a horse,
when working, tries to stretch-
out, he should be allowed to
urinate immediately.
Sudan-grass
“W.C.Q.”: Sudan-grass can be
handy on dairyfarms, but the
seed should always come from a
reliable source, for, at a glance,
Johnson-grass seems identical
with Sudan. The first is the most
poisonous of the sorghums,,
whereas the second can safely be
grown for pasturage if certain
points are observed.
If there is any doubt as to
whether Johnson-grass has got
into the paddock, pull up a stool.
Johnson-grass is deep-rooted and
very drought-resistant; Sudan-
grass is a surface-rooter.
Dark-green Sudan less than
18in. high, whether first- or
ratoon-growth, is especially
dangerous. U.S. experts think
that the prussic-acid is higher in
grass on land with low phos-
phorus and high nitrogen than
on land with plenty of phos-
phorus and low nitrogen.
Drought, by stunting the grass,
lengthens its toxic cycle.
It’s wrong to assume that
young Sudan will make non-
poisonous hay. The only Sudan
recommended for hay-making,
as for grazing, is 2ft. to 3ft.
Solar-stills
“Geep”: It is pleasing to read
of official interest in the use of
solar-energy for desalting
water, but I think “Billjim”
(B. 29/2/’56) is stretching a point
when he says that the solar-still
tested at Mildura is the world’s
first.
As far back as 1872 a solar-
still of fair size was operating in
South America. It was located in
the vicinity of Antofagasta,
Chili, an extremely arid region
noted for its deposits of nitrate-
fertiliser. The daily production-
rate of approximately lib. of
water per square-foot was similar
to that of the Mildura still.
The development of solar-stills
is largely a matter of economics,
most favorable conditions pro-
bably being those in which the
object is the supply of stock-
waters from highly-mineralised
underground sources. Stock can
tolerate quite high saline con-
centrations —up to 700 grains per
gallon for beef-cattle, and even
900 g.p.g. with sheep. Distilling-
costs per gallon will thus be
greatly reduced, as stock-water
of the above concentrations
could be prepared from a blend
of the original water and a
relatively small proportion of
distilled water.
Bun-stacks
“Berri”: Bun-shaped silage-
stacks are gaining popularity
over the wedge-design—primarily
because they are safer to make
with a tractor and buckrake.
They are also easier to seal
with earth to make a more per-
manent storage than the self-
sealed uncovered wedge, which
is often fed-out during the
autumn after it is made.
Young sheep can often be
seen playing on top of covered
buns, which are warm because
of the fermentation going on
inside them. When you want to
feed-out the bun, take the earth
off, and the stock can eat the
silage where it stands.
No carting‘needed, unless the
fodder has to be taken to stock in
another paddock.
Farm Hints
“Cleanup”: Cream*that looks
slimy and can be drawn out in
gossamerlike threads is called
“ropey.” Cause is an organism
present in stagnant water which
cows pick-up on legs, udders,
etc., when wading in dams,
waterholes or swamps. Milking-
sheds and -fittings are soon con-
taminated, resulting in a long
period of infection unless
prompt action is taken. Find
source of trouble and keep cows
away from it. Clean all bails,
leg-ropes, walls and floors ; then
sterilise with 6 tablespoons 12£
per cent, sodium-hypochlorite.
Scatter dry lime over floors.
Trough-watering, provided the
water is kept fresh, is the best
preventive.
“Plane Creek”: Saving all
grass-cuttings, pulled-up weeds
and plants, and rotting them
down under shrubs, trees or on
top of resting garden-beds
means a saving on the manure-
bill. The brighter look on
mulched plants in comparison
with unmulched ones in hot, dry
weather is plain evidence of the
value of the mulch. Surface-
feeder-roots are protected from
severe heat, moisture is saved
and the soil gains in humus.
Plant-refuse does most good
when made use of with cow-
or horse-manure.
“Ticks”: Ticks have appeared
on the previously tick-free
Darling Downs. They were
recently found near Dalby, and
an area within a 10-mile radius
of the post-office there has been
proclaimed tick-infested. Downs
cattlemen have asked the
Queensland Agriculture and
Stock Department to quarantine
any holding on which ticks have
been found.
“Croweater”: A simple crow-
trap can be made in a quiet
corner of a netted yard by using
netted wooden frames for two
#des and the yard fences for the
other two sides. Cover the top
with netting, except for a wood-
lined opening in the centre about
12in. square. Bait the trap with
a few stale eggs and some ripe
meat. Crows will alight on top
and find their way in; their
wingspan will prevent escape.
“Dan”: There are dangers in
feeding stock with dusted grain.
Copper-carbonate and the mer-
cury fungicides used for dusting
for bunt, smut and other fungal
diseases are cumulative poisons.
Even if the treated grain is fed
only in small quantities poison-
ing will not be avoided; the
stock will die as soon as suffi-
cient poison gathers in the
system. Grain treated with hexa-
chlorbenzene to control fungi has
been fed to stock without ill-
effects: it doesn’t accumulate in
the organs.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/3/’56)
The heavy rains in portion of Queensland and N.S.W.
are ample substantiation of the effect of the particularly
high sunspot-activity which has prevailed for some time.
Further heavy rain, with the likelihood of flooding, is
likely in Queensland during April, but in N. S. Wales, apart
from moderate rains on the coast and portion of the table-
lands, rains should be mainly light and patchy.
The southern half of Victoria should receive reasonably
good rains during April, but light elsewhere in the State.
Light to moderate, patchy rains should occur in South
Australia, although better falls may occur in the upper-
north.
In Western Australia, heavy rains should occur in the
West Kimberleys, De Grey and Fortescue, with good falls
in the south-east and lower-south-coast, but light elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


s ifl TO
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This? /
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
seen dead in a barrister’s wig
and gown, while most barristers
prefer the excitements of the
court to what they consider the
humdrum existence of a
solicitor.
Many years ago, when a few
prominent men at the bar began
to shed their hair, they started a
custom of wearing wigs to hide
the vacant patches, and this
custom has now become so
firmly established that a barris-
ter may not appear in the higher
courts without his wig.
Similarly, barristers wear
gowns, which represent a con-
siderable saving in clothing-
expenses. So long as a barrister
wears wig, gown, trousers, socks
and shoes, nobody knows, and
nobody cares, whether he wears
anything else. Some say that
the less clothing he wears the
higher the standard of advocacy.
When a barrister gains a suffi-
ciently high opinion of himself,
he takes silk i.e., becomes
appointed a Queen’s Counsel.
This is the highest rank a barris-
ter can attain before elevation
to a judgeship. When he takes
silk, he can command a higher
fee, and can appear in court
only if supported by a junior
barrister. Naturally, the junior
barrister does most of the work,
and is able to prompt his senior
when the latter has not read his
brief before going into court.
It’s just too bad for a Q.C.
who has overestimated his
ability and solicitor-appeal, and
finds that the solicitors won’t
engage him, plus junior, when
they can get an equally good
barrister without junior.
If a solicitor wants a case to
last twice as long as he thinks
it should, he engages a Q.C. If
he wants it to last twice as long
again, he engages two Q.C.s.
The possibilities are then almost
endless, limited only by the
depth of the client’s pocket and
the patience of the judges.
Before a brief is delivered to
a barrister, his fee is marked on
it. If the fee is not satisfactory,
he returns the brief; if satisfac-
tory, and the case extends
beyond one day, the barrister
gets an additional fee called a
“refresher.” This is more
refreshing to the barrister than
to the client.
Almost invariably, when the
barrister leaves the bar of the
court at the end of the day, he
and his colleagues adjourn to
another bar. There, in an
atmosphere of peace, goodwill
and good-fellowship, the man
who has disagreed vehemently
in court with his learned friend
has an amiable discussion with
the same learned friend, and the
cross-examining tiger becomes
gentler than the gentlest cooing
dove.
Whereas, in course of time, a
solicitor acquires a goodwill
worth much in terms of mone-
tary value and other things, a
barrister when he dies leaves
nothing but a reputation.
Whether good or bad, it is
preserved as an enduring monu-
ment in the pages of the law-
reports over which succeeding
generations of barristers will
pore and ponder and some-
times wonder. ~
and elsewhere abroad live harder
than Australian, Canadian or
U.S. troops. There is a disposi-
tion on the part of the new Eden
Government to compromise with
public opinion rather than to act
according to need.
Reduced Defence
This has resulted in the new
defence - programmes, which
show a distinct drawing-in of
horns, some of this on pretexts
of economy, the greater necessity
for home-defence and the claim
that certain features are out-
moded.
Reporting the conference of
Nato Powers held in Paris in
the middle of last month, the
“Times” summed-up as “the
broad background of most of the
member-countries” that, with
rising costs and wages and Ser-
vice pay, they cannot increase
their present defence - expendi-
tures, and therefore it is a ques-
tion of making the best of exist-
ing financial means.
It was reported that many of
the countries were “still geared
to a military-machine which, in
the event of war, would provide
them with weapons and methods
scarcely more modern than thoke
in use at the end of the last war.”
They can “only deal in
priorities.” And in the exercise
of priority-policies surrender
seems to be the watchword.
The British Government, for
instance, some time ago decided
to cut down the planned expedi-
tionary Territorial force for
service in case of need on the
Continent from 12 divisions to
two. All coastal-defence bat-
teries have been wiped-out as
obsolete, though many artillery-
men doubt the wisdom of doing
so, whatever they may think of
the existing equipment.
The authorities have decided
to “give up the anti-aircraft
command in the United King-
dom.” The principle of com-
pulsory national service is being
tampered with. British troops
have been withdrawn from the
Suez Canal zone months ahead
of time. Troops in Malaya are
being reduced to be replaced
by locals.
These moves are symptomatic
of the atmosphere when com-
bined with the facts that large
pay-rises all-round have been
conceded to British forces every-
where and that there is a distinct
tendency in British defence-
propaganda to stress the effi-
ciency of automatic air-defence
methods and the more modern
devices calling for less man-
power than was needed in the
older types of war.
This tendency Moscow appears
all too ready to encourage by its
ballooning propaganda about its
own lethal novelties—which may
be as false as its bomber-propa-
ganda of 1939.
The Royal Navy is scrapping
all ships in reserve nof capable of
putting to sea at short notice.
The economies otherwise are
over a wide range, but these do
not matter so much as the
startling trend of overall defence-
policy.
The U.K. Government admits
that “there is no change in Soviet
long-term policy, which funda-
mentally aims at world domina-
tion.” But it holds, or professes
to hold, that the advent of the
hydrogen-bomb has enormously
strengthened the power of the
deterrent, and that, provided the
deterrent is maintained, the likeli-
hood of global war has
decreased. It says:
The main threat to our freedom
and security will come from an
intensification of the cold war in all
areas susceptible to Communist pene-
tration, and our forces must be pre-
pared against the outbreak of limited
wars Accordingly, in present cir-
cumstances, the level of our defence-
effort must be maintained. The forces
will become smaller but hard-hitting,
and will be deployed and organised to
meet the altered threat.
Deterrent Plans
The plan, therefore, is marked
by great changes in policy from
1939. A primary—perhaps the
primary—objective is (as opposed
to the fighter-defence of the last-
war beginnings) to build-up the
“V”-bomber (deterrent) force
for the delivery of nuclear
weapons—a strategic force, of
which the operating Valiant and
the soon-operating Vulcan will
form the core to hit sources of
aggression.
The manned fighter has not
been abandoned in the air-
defence scheme, of which it must
for some time remain the back-
bone, but “lethality of power” is
to be increased through fitment
of guided air-to-air missiles, to
begin at once with the induction
into the R.A.A.F. of a new
special version of the Swift.
The concept of close defence
of vulnerable areas against
nuclear attack is to be abandoned
as “outmoded” and replaced by
a manned-fighter programme
integrated with ground-to-air
guided-weapons in order to make
the coasts impregnable against
air-penetration.
The Navy, reduced in size, is
to be modernised, and is regarded
as a primary weapon of the cold
war in its operations directed
at producing goodwill and keep-
ing the peace in distant parts of
the world. Anti - submarine
measures, guided-missiles and the
use of nuclear power are all in
the air in the R.N.
It seems that the British Army
is to be ground very fine in the
mills of reform. On it will fall
“a large part of the reduction,”
which
will involve considerable reorganisa-
tion, including reductions in establish-,
ments, training-staffs, headquarters
and administrative and supporting
units,
but also a “new concept of flexi-
bility to enable it to give a good
account of itself in global war.”
The overall forces in all Ser-
vices will in Britain fall from
800,000 to 730,000; the active
forces by about 37,000. The
reserve and auxiliary forces are
shrinking, as are the volunteer
numbers, in which there has been
a “disturbing decline.”
The total all-round reductions
in the Army will be about
100,000 by 1958, and the fighting-
component of the remainder will
continue to dwindle in relation to
the administrative “tail,” in
respect of which the figures are
astonishing.
Administration seems, indeed,
to grow as the fighting-com-
ponent is withdrawn.
It has been pointed out that
in England in 1884 the adminis-
trative “tail” was only 3 per cent,
in an Army of 180,000. By 1914
this had grown to 6 per cent.;
at the outbreak of World War II
it was 11 per cent. By 1946 it was
38 per cent., and today it is 40
per cent, of the British Army—
and of the Australian probably
more.
Australian Policy
It remains to be seen what the
year will bring forth in Aus-
tralia.
Here, save for the guided-
missile development, everything
is obsolescent. Reserves tend to
languish, and weaponry is a
stage behind the rest of the
world. Aircraft come into service
and are demonstrated when other
countries are abandoning the
types which we have labored to
produce. Only in ground-pre-
parations of aerodromes, etc.,
and at Woomera is real progress
made.
Especially in view of the
British drawing-in of horns, Aus-
tralian defence needs a searching
examination.
As British effort decreases our
responsibility in the Pacific in-
creases. There is, of course, a
tendency to discount the fact
that the Russians and Chinese—
irrespective of constriction of
manpower in the Services in the
British Commonwealth —are con-
tinuing to build-up their man-
power by a joint intake of
4,000,000 to 5,000,000 trainees
,a year. The total number of
U.K. National Servicemen who
have passed through training has
only reached 1,000,000 ; the U.S.
annual post-war intake has been
less than a third of the potential
enemy’s even in peak years.
And the cold war, save in
actual trouble-spots, seems to
command little deterrent atten-
tion. Its skilled operatives are
making great headway in the dis-
ruption of the Australian,
economy, defence and security.
They rejoice as they hear the all-
too-common view of their
activities as those of a “few
ratbags.”
If, as tjie British and American
Governments # obviously think,
the cold war* is currently the
dangerous part of * the present
phase, more should be«done
about it in an organised > way.
If Communism needed to •be
handled through special legisla-
tion in 1951, the need now* is
double what it was. But with
Dr. Evatt’s victory on the -Com-
munist-party Dissolution Act
Referendum, the Government
seems to have washed its hands
of the whole matter.
THE AUSTRALIAN
What have they done to you, Australian, what have they
done ?
That you think no longer on the gum-leaves and the great
red sun?
What have they taken from you, Australian, the cruel Greek
gods?
That you’ve lifted your feet from your native earth, for-
saking its sods?
Now why don’t you rise, Australian, and think today on
the hut?—
The seven rifles on the wall and the knives to strip and
cut ;
And the tall dead white gums round the gully blazing in the
heat,
And the smell of the dry ferns, wholly, fully, odorous and
sweet ;
Lake’s grey fence, blue in the heat, their rounded strainers
w^te,
And Lake’s grey house upon the hill, half hidden from my
sight,
And Greenwood’s sad old bony horse that ambles down the
track
Eating dry grass and sand all day and slowly ambling back ;
A few gold saplings on the rise, a dry leaf flying high,
And, stumbling down among the fern, the lost Italian’s cry:
All of the past, the white topee, the tea-tree vague and
green,
The scented swamp, the violet wild and the white clay in
between,
And tins that lie about the hut, chock-full of bullet-holes,
And the deep dark mark of a 44-bore on the dead white
gumtree boles.
And that was my life and that was me, in the old days that
have gone,
Before the cruel gods set their mark on the native Apollyon.
You’re set down here on an island small, you that loved to
feel , . * j
Beneath your feet the swagger and sway of a mighty
continent’s reel,
Of stars that lifted to lick your skies with white blazing
faces,
And a sun that burnt with its searing seal Australia’s many
races.
And a long long lift of long brown plains and great eagles
flying,
And the backward sweep of the ocean’s leap and the grey
bush’s crying,
And the road that ran with a rapid swing, with a ceaseless
stride
From Delegate down to Orbost and fast down to Bairnsdale
side . . .
That leapt like a streak past Providence Ponds and took the
miles to Sale,
That thundered down to Morwell and Traralgon with the
mail ;
That sundered all the bush between, across the Haunted
Hills,
That dashed you down to Warragul, a long road, white and
still.
From Warragul to Dandenong and from that hamlet down
By way of Murrumbeena until you hit the town . . .
Grey Melbourne on the Yarra, that city by the sea,
That hurts me with its coldness and is never home to me:
That slings me down to Spencer-street to catch the Sydney
Mail
And rattle past brown Seymour and Wangaratta in a gale,
Till last we come to Albury, the town of golden leaves,
And wend by way of Sydney and still my heart grieves.
So, what have they done to you, Australian, what have they
done?
The cruel Greek gods that with their rods rule the cruel
sun?
What have they done to you, Australian, what have they
done ?
Penned beneath New Zealand skies, staring at the tide,
Half New Zealander and now half Maori race beside . . .
Listening with exultant heart to haka and to songs
Sung by the bronze-faced warriors to whom your love
belongs,
A wanderer now by pah and field, a worshipper of men
Whose gods, Ingoa and Atua, are but yourself again . . .
Smelling the yellow sulphur, feeling the warm mist spray
That flies up from the geysers round Rotorua way . . .
Feeling the rough round pumice, strolling through lava-
holes,
Picking up sulphur nodules and blue and red-gold shoals
Of heat and smoke and foam and spray, and longing to be
back
Riding through Australia down some old outback track.
N.Z.
EVE LANGLEY.


PRISON WAS MY PARISH
Rev. Baden P. H. Ball
The remarkable life story of a Chaplain
at Dartmoor and Wandsworth prisons.
At all booksellers - - - 22/6
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY :: AUCKLAND
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THE BOGEYMAN
by Vince Kelly. This is an incredible
but true story of a plainclothes police-
man's uninvited visits (under many
guises) to opium dens, restaurants,
hotels and guesthouses and wherever
the law was being broken.
18/- (post 7d.).
GALLOWS ON THE SAND
by Morris h. West—a romantic adven-
ture story that provides all the ingredi-
ents for first-class entertainment: a
disillusioned hero who seeks escape m
treasure hunting, a sunken galleon, a
lonely tropical island, a thoroughly
modern villain and a very beautiful girl.
16 1- (post 7d.).
Obtainable from all booksellers and...
NGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
Street, Sydney.
A GREAT NEW NOVEL BY
HOWARD SPRING
“These Lovers Fled Away
Available from all booksellers
COLLINS
18s. 9d.
PUBLISHERS
today. Who today could read “Ras-
selas”? Good-conscience in Voltaire
allowed him to say “After all, this is a
world tolerable enough.” Johnson did
nothing but groan at it as a monstrous
imposition on a concept of happiness.
One may ask in vain why a mind
like Johnson’s corrupts its special
faculty and reverses what Yeats calls
the “Creative Mask.” Fear is the only
rational explanation ; fear of arousing
collective fury over an onslaught on
all its social and ethical prejudices, its
accepted tenets of popular morality.
Johnson must have known what to
expect if he started bludgeoning bishops
instead of obsequiously bowing to
them, and what mob-frenzy would
have been aroused if he had attacked
all its social, ethical, and aesthetic pre-
judices. We know what the English
are once their inherent Puritanism is
aroused. If Johnson had done his job
as dictated by his special faculty, he
would have been howled-at as a moral
anarchist, a corrupter of the young, a
destroyer of all social decency and
decorum . . .
To me, his written style alone is
enough to expose the corruption of his
special faculty, by its evidence of irreso-
lution and evasion of conflict, carefully
censoring all pugnacity in the state-
ment of ideas. An idea that might
arouse opposition is so smoothed and
padded and rounded-off that all offence
is deleted from it. Translate any
written passages into Johnson’s spoken
idiom and that is apparent: —
How often has this been the fate
of students, every man of letters will
declare, and perhaps, there are very
few who have not sometimes valued
as new discoveries, made by them-
selves, those observations, which have
long since been published, and of
which the world therefore will re-
fuse them praise; nor can that re-
fusal be censured as any enormous
violation of injustice; for, why
should they not forfeit by their
ignorance, what they might claim by
their sagacity?
In Johnson’s spoken idiom, this pon-
derous statement of a common-place
would be compacted to: “Sir, a man
who claims as his own discoveries made
by others has only himself to blame if
he is trounced as an impostor or an
ignoramus.”
Johnson exhausted his pugnacity and
the vigorous statement of his ideas in
talk. Talk was a drug he could not be
without. Deprived of it, he was aban-
doned to that limbo of silence in which
there is no escape from the attack of
bad-conscience. No wonder one land-
lord ejected him from the premises be-
cause his groans at night disturbed the
neighbors. Groans from the great
“Perceptor of Public Morals,” the
majestic “Castigator of Vice”—do we
need any other evidence of Johnson’s
moral corruption than these titles of
the public’s reverence for him?
Donald Wolfit
The immensity of the loss to the
Australian theatre because of rotating
grandfathers is a calamity that has yet
to be measured: not only did we lose
Christopher Fry’s grandfather (or was
it his father?) because he went broke
in Melbourne but also, so one learns
from Donald Wolfit’s First Interval
(Odhams), we lost the grandparent of
this famous Shakspearian actor for
much the same reason—
My grandfather Tomlinson lived
in the days of the great gold-rushes.
At 19 he was in Australia and
returned penniless but with gold
earrings, the tan of a gypsy, and a
taste for liquor which shocked the
smug Victorian town.
Grandfather Tomlinson went off to
Canada, and raised an enormous
family in the backwoods, where bears
used to come and study the babies
in the bassinet.
Thus deprived of any chance of the
actor’s having been born here, Aus-
tralia has not yet had the opportunity
of seeing Wolfit on the stage—about
the only leading Shakspearian from
England who has not made the voyage
in recent years, and one whom Philip
Lindsay, the novelist —among others—
has always praised so highly that it
seems we have really missed some-
thing. There remains the minor con-
solation of meeting him in “First
Interval” ; which, if not the same thing
as seeing an actor on the stage, is a
very good autobiography and
perhaps a rarity among stage-lives in
that Wolfit says he wrote it himself.
He writes admirably.
Those with a taste for life rather
than theatre will find the early chapters,
describing his childhood, the best of
it: his father getting up in the middle
of the night to drown the cuckoo-clock
in a bucket of water when it wouldn’t
stop striking ; his fabulous goldseeking
grandfather ; and his uncle Erland, a
severe, formal gentleman from Eton
and Oxford, who collected police-
truncheons for some mysterious pur-
pose best left untouched by Freudian
investigation.
But if ever life and the theatre were
inextricably entangled they were so
in Donald Wolfit’s career ; for, though
his parents. wanted him to be some-
thing respectable, like a scientist, he
seems to have been born to act, and
describes his progress from the
humblest beginnings to the West End
with extraordinary gusto.
Barnstormers, sword-swallowers and
acrobats at country fairs kindled the
the light in his childhood—
Another highlight was the
occasional visit from a sword-
swallower who disposed of a good
four feet of steel down his throat.
This he followed by drinking half-
a-gallon of paraffin and setting light
to his breath so that he belched forth
flames 15 feet long across the
heads of the onlookers. Culminating
these amazing feats, he stretched
himself on the ground with paving
stones across his chest and invited
onlookers to smash them with an
enormous sledge-hammer which his
lady-assistant stood ready to provide.
His first stage-appearance was in
crinkled green paper as Robin Hood
in a play written by a schoolmistress at
the Parish Church School at Newark,
a production only slightly marred by
the fact that the boy playing Maid
Marian had just had ringworm and
had to wear his own bald, shaven poll
instead of the proper blonde wig.
Wolfit became locally celebrated for
his imitations of various musichall
comedians ; played both the hind- and
front-legs of a donkey in a pantomime ;
and while still a schoolboy bicycled 19
miles in the rain to Nottingham to ask
Fred Terry for a job.
As he gets going in his stage-career,
the book is full of entertaining stories:
the time on the tour of Yorkshire when
Ophelia’s coffin, having last been used
in South Africa, appeared on stage
with the large label across it, “Pick-
fords. Not Wanted on the Voyage” ;
the night at Newport when, as one of
Macbeth’s servants in the castle, dash-
ing enthusiastically about after the
murder of Duncan, he set his wig
alight with his flaming torch; the
“thunder-race” at West Stanley a
sort of tin-gutter backstage where
boulders were rolled to make thunder
—down which one night the boulders
bounced over the fly-rail and nearly
squashed the three Weird Sisters,
one of whom was [Wolfit; the
time at Whitehaven when, playing the
Mesmerist in “The Bells,” he was
bombarded with bottles by the slightly-
irritated audience . . . but the theme
that most impressively emerges through
all the picaresque adventures is Wol-
fit’s persistence, and the pittances for
which actors were then prepared to
work on their way up to the top.
Wolfit started, in a touring Shaks-
pearian company, as a stage-manager
with walk-on parts, for no pay at all;
he “turned cartwheels” when Fred
Terry put him into the cast of “The
Scarlet Pimpernel” at £4/10/- a week ;
and was still pleased when he fell from
those heights to £3/10/- a week
“tumbling in and out of baronial halls,
Scottish castles, manses, rectories,
vicarages and miners’ cottages” with
the Arts League Travelling Theatre,
The book concludes with some
strictures on G. B. Shaw for not
leaving his money to a national theatre,
and some useful thoughts on theatre-
management. Mr. Wolfit believes that
the theatre needs control by actor-
managers more now than at any time
in its long history. The dramatist needs
it most of all.
Occasion of Glory: Arthur Calder-
Marshall (Cape). Despite an unpromis-
ing beginning in which attention is
focussed on several minor characters
in a confusing way, this novel has a
fairly good story to tell and a theme to
expound. A city of Mexico, where the
people have substituted superstitious
dramatics for their banished religion,
lies close to a great valley which is
almost destroyed by soil-erosion. The
regeneration of this valley becomes the
religion of the city’s police-chief; and
his fight for this faith against the lg-
norance of the charcoal-burners who
destroy the forests and the stratagems
of government officials, tied-in with his
love for a rich American girl, makes
the story.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 374
Across
I—Resembling an appreciation for
Albert Eisenhower. (5)
4—Handcuffing a fellow with a
strong grasp. (9)
9—Printer’s measure plunges into
vegetables. (7)
11— One noted for majestic wrong-
doing on the way down? (7)
12— Clean chit (anagram). (9)
13— Turk seaman of the French half-
century. (5)
14— Pronoun inheritors arrive after
tea. (6)
16 —Century or the upturned’s body.
, (6)
20— The most dreadful restorer of
Diana’s energy? (6)
21 — Part of the head church. (6)
23—An influential Moslem in a
rejoicer of shareholders —so,
encore! (5)
25—Twist churchwardens are the
target of stranglers. (9)
—Drinks the middle note or faces.
(8)
-B—Turk was slain by Othello in this
beer taken by the pianissimo
duck. (6)
29—He reveals who doesn’t retain the
record? (9)
30—Gwydir gent’s funeral music goes
right to the heart of it. (5)
Down
1 — A saucy ewe blushing with an
opening imitator and a preposi-
tionless Turin editor. (9)
2 It points out a language of Asia
on a rocky mountain. (9)
3 Die Spanish conveyance of
spirits. (5)
5 An overturned Sarah’s sounds
which are common in French —
and American English. (6)
6 Is Jolson unable to duck up with
a melon? (9)
7 Although creeper-covered, Yours
Truly competed in a contest. (5)
8— Leave the captain’s journal
written up for a Russian play-
wright. (5)
10 —Safe direction on a remedy. (6)
15 —German tree on Albert is vital.
(9)
17 — Pig-stealer’s dad put in with 24
blackbirds by a rat-catcher?
(4, 5)
18— The manner in which a petticoat
talks. What a peach! (9)
19 — The copper has a girl. (5)
22 —Toffs are not sick in the steamer.
(6)
23 — Current bounder in an ancient
Babylonian city. (5)
24 — Polonius died behind this
French city. (5)
26 —The old man was in front, but
lost colour. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 373


E
bam
ENERGY
BATTERIES
mmL
m
wm
■ .
m
SisfewP - : • i
ray
jSjgjft
iip | gis >'-, * i- £pjf Sp
!vi*:•:•:*
m
\ti
V ...; ;■■J; " : ‘ ■-
\ I'• . " J , V*r* f.’i-’i ** *»v . !,*.* ;
J ' ' • ! - '* >" - trip!
M i “i j ! , \i ! -., _
m > : ; ||| !< - -'■ t * *i I rt I
■ i '•’'L" i
r v ' Miy I **
til
a&KS»
V.v ’-y ; ;
«
impiiiip
' v
iSfei
m-y.
•tii&ii
AS USED BY N.S.W.
AND COMMONWEALTH
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
COUNCILS AND LEADING
FLEET OWNERS, ETC.
Equipment on Radiola for
23 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE*
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON}
Manufactured by
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MAG 188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B6565, B4448
