

No. 308: the Homeland Series hy the House of Seppelt.
1
-m
e
SOLERO
SWEET OJR DRY
im
The Bulletin
PIE-HUNGER —PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 3989
Wednesday, July 25, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
FROM STAMFORD THE BARONS
MARCHED TO RUNNYMEDE
ONE of the most interesting and historic
market towns in Britain is Stamford, the
centre of a rich agricultural area in the East
Midlands of England. Its name is derived
from the old Roman ford which crossed the
River Welland at this point. As early as the
year a.d. 449, Stamford is mentioned as being
concerned in the defeat of the Piets and Scots
by the British chieftain Vortigern, with his
Saxon allies under Hengist. The settlement
developed rapidly under Saxon influence and
it became an important centre in the district.
Stamford became a Royal Borough in 972
under a Charter of King Edgar and a mint was
established there. The Normans recognised
its importance and built a castle to control
the main road, and encircling walls to protect
the town. Industries and trades were developed,
and by the 12th century Stamford cloth was
renowned throughout Europe. Parliaments,
Councils and important gatherings were held
there during the Middle Ages and the town was
frequently visited by Sovereigns when engaged
upon national affairs. William I and William
11, Henry I in 1110 and Stephen in 1140, and
many later kings all visited Stamford.
King John frequently visited Stamford during
his troubled reign, and in 1215 the barons, who
opposed the King's autocratic rule, assembled
there with an army of two thousand knights
before commencing their march to Runnymede,
there to extract the famous Magna Charta from
King John.
In the 15th century, Stamford contained six
monasteries, several religious schools and
seventeen churches. In 1461, during the Civil
War, the town was almost entirely destroyed,
but by the end of that century many of its
splendid churches had b'een restored. One of
the finest of these is St. Martin’s Church,
illustrated here, which dates from 1480 and is
built entirely in the Perpendicular style. A
conspicuous feature of the interior is the
magnificent monument to Lord Burghley, Lord
High Treasurer of England, who died in 1598.
Stamford is a town rich in Elizabethan,
Jacobean and Georgian houses; it is also a
town of noble towers and spires, acknowledged
by Sir Walter Scott as the grandest sight on the
long road between London and Edinburgh.


sssig&S? z
cessiul.
The Red Page
THE FAIRYTALE OF COONARDOO
Katharine Susannah Prichard s
Coonardoo is a most welcome reprint
from Angus and Robertson. A novel
which, with “Working Bullocks/’ is the
basis on which its author’s reputation
has been founded, it must have con-
tinually provoked curiosity during its
long absence from the bookshops; and
if. during the quarter-century since it
shared the honors of a “Bulletin
novel-competition with M. Barnard
Eldershaw’s “A House Is Built” and
was first published by Cape, it has lost
something of the impact which its
force and daring then aroused, it still
reads interestingly on the whole and
remarkably well in parts.
Katharine Prichard, if I remember
rightly, has usually been discussed as
an exponent of “realism ’ in Australian
writing. I doubt whether the term can
properly be applied to her recent gold-
fields trilogy, which is the strangest
mixture of economic statistics and
political fantasy, and it seems equally
inappropriate when applied to the
beautiful fairytale of “Coonardoo.”
Certainly the landscape in “Coonar-
doo” is realistic. I do not recall any
other Australian book —novel or docu-
mentary —in which the bare stones of
the far outback, blasted by centuries of
heat yet so full of the secret small life
of birds and animals and wildflowers.
have been set down more vividly. In
contrast to the Brent of Bin Bin novels,
where the countryside is so often merely
generalised in a nostalgic dream, the
flowers and shrubs just a pretty blur,
not named and known. Katharine
Prichard knows her hot saltbush plain
intimately, minutely; she explores it
with love and patience; she relishes its
particularities, harsh or weird or
charming; and so, when she re-creates
it in her prose, it comes up alive in
every detail:—
Trees stretched out from the foot
of the hills, acacia, thornbush and
mulga; gidgee, round, dark-green
and glossy-leafed, the water-tree
from whose roots, if you were
bushed, you could get water. Mulga
gave the sky between the web of its
twigs and branches, with leaves fine
and tough, grey-blue of the wild-
pigeons’ breasts. A flock of kanga-
roos, gingery-red as the earth they
hopped over, forty, perhaps, young
things, does and an old boomer or
two, scattered away through the trees
and over the plains. Java-sparrows
flew off with faint sweet tinkling
cries. The mulga now and then was
hung with pale-yellow tasselled
blossom, and long flat seed-pods.
Paper-daisies spread in drifts under
the trees and away over the flat land.
Trails of the desert-pea spilt new
bright blood beside the track.
It is not altogether essential for a
novelist to have this intimate know-
ledge of Nature. The countryside in
Dickens is usually sentimentalised,
almost personified, to fit the mood and
tempo of his story; it is a kind of
incidental music, and he lives by his
characters. Yet how welcome such
fidelity is when you come upon it! —not
merely because it carries conviction
but also because the mere names of the
plants and birds, rich from the earth,
give color and vigor to the prose itself.
What an admirable word, after all, is
“mulga”—plain, solid, as uncom-
promisingly Australian as the thump of
a kangaroo’s tail. And how the solid
prose fills with light and the earth’s
fertility from the mulga’s pale-yellow
blossoms and those invaluable flat
seed-pods!
If Katharine Prichard learned how
to write about the countryside from
D. H. Lawrence, as she is supposed to
have learned her outlook on sex, she
studied in an excellent school: for
Lawrence, like Hardy, the Powys
brothers and all the other writers of
the countryside who so enriched English
prose with bugloss, bindweed and St.
John’s-wort. always had the most alert
eye for significant and vital detail. But,
though some of Katharine Prichard’s
short-stories, where men are always
likely to suffer metamorphosis into a
stallion, have indeed sounded rather
like Lawrence, there is no perceptible
influence in her Nature-writing. The
cadences are her own; the observation
is her own. She seems, simply, to write
out of her own knowledge of the hot
north-west, and out of profound love
for every living thing that stirs in it.
And when you camp with the stockmen
and aborigines, mustering the cattle in
“Coonardoo,” you do camp with them:
unmistakably in that country and no
other —and a fine country, too, as
Katharine Prichard paints it in its clean,
searching heat.
Certainly, too, at least in her account
of Sam Geary. Katharine Prichard is
realistic in her depiction of the rela-
tions between white men and black
women. In fact I believe that, as so
often happens in Australia when a
writer attempts to be honest, the
simple, unsensational, obviously truth-
ful picture in this aspect of her book
originally caused something of a
rumpus.
More than realistic, she is fair, even
affectionate, in her portrait of Sam
Geary. Sun-scorched, gingery, bulbous-
eyed, frequently going on a bender and
always with his harem of gins, Sam is
a scoundrel, there is no doubt about
that. When, in his cups, he debauches
the aboriginal girl Coonardoo. thereby
precipitating the tragedy of the novel,
he typifies about the worst that can be
said of the crude white overlord
amongst a primitive people. Yet
Katharine Prichard, in this novel, is
seeing life too clearly to pretend that
Coonardoo was wholly unwilling, or
unduly surprised by what occurred; and
Geary—a bachelor in a hot country,
among native women glad to attend
him—is given his justification. Even
though the novelist does seem at times
to be making merely a villain out of
him, he emerges in the end as
a rounded, thoroughly convincing
character—by far the surest in the
book, indeed: though we see him only
in brief glimpses —with something dis-
tinctly likeable about him: a man, after
all, with the robustness of the pioneer
and a redeeming Rabelaisian humor:
A tall, heavy man, wearing his
belt under a loose flabby paunch,
Sam still carried himself with a
swaggering jollity, and liked to air
his argument for polygamy in hot
crowded hotel bars, and on sprees,
up and down the river. He enjoyed
nothing more than to rake a dilapi-
dated Bible from his pocket and
read aloud the story of Judah, or
recite the number of Solomon’s
I wives and female accessories . . .
But, decorated though it is by the
incidental realism of Geary and the
setting, the central story, upon which
the whole dramatic effect of the novel
depends, is far indeed from anything
one could call realistic.
I have never found it easy to believe
in the picture, so often submitted by
English novelists, of normal, adult
males living for years in a state of
complete chastity; and here, where
Hugh Watt has erred with Coonardoo
once in his youth, where the black-gin
is still said to be attractive, where she
herself, with no encumbrance of hus-
band or lover, is puzzled and hurt at
Hugh’s aloofness and yearning for his
physical companionship, and where,
after his nagging wife has left him, the
settler takes the girl into his house and
lives alone with her year after year
without once touching her and with-
out even an occasional spree in town
to break the monotony of his virtue, it
is really impossible to accept the situa-
tion as plausible.
Perhaps it would be credible if Hugh
were portrayed as some impassioned
idealist; and indeed a powerful drama
might have been made out of some
tormented creature tom by the conflict
'between lust and idealism, as Trollope’s
superb Mr. Crawley is torn, in a differ-
ent way, by his inability to cope with
the complexities of practical existence.
But Hugh is not so portrayed. His
idealism—a fact certainly stated —is
vague and mild; and, as the novelist
herself has shown in the story of his
youth, fairly easily to be conquered.
Perhaps, again, the situation would
be credible if Hugh, from temperament
or the weight of years, had been
indifferent to women. But if he were
indifferent, where would be the drama
in the situation? What point would
there be in that sudden, harsh, alto-
gether unexpected outburst when,
having learned that Geary has de-
bauched her, he throws Coonardoo in
the campfire? There cannot be a
drama where the characters do not have
dramatic feelings.
No; we must accept the author’s
word for it—stated in an apparent
afterthought, as if Katharine Prichard
were trying to explain her own novel
to herself—that Hugh is not indifferent:
that he has, in fact, been tortured for
years by his inhibitions: and so we are
thrown back upon the original improb-
ability. We are also obliged to believe
that Coonardoo, a black-gin on a cattle-
station, free from most of the standard
European inhibitions, as she has shown
by her pursuit of Hugh and her matter-
of-fact acceptance of Geary, young,
attractive and a widow, would not
have sought consolation for the cattle-
man’s neglect with some more practical
companion, black or white.
What would really have happened in
the situation as Katharine Prichard has
laid it down, after the nagging Mollie’s
departure? Hugh, most likely, would
simply have taken Coonardoo for his
mistress. Then indeed, had more
tension been bought into Geary’s
campaign, there would have been so
point in the drunken rape, in the n -
murder at the campfire, and 1
Coonardoo s tremendous final curtain,
stalking back, diseased after she has
been with the pearling- gg
on the deserted station. There are the
possibilities here for a great tragic
drama. But what we have is a curious
mature of realism and fantasy, still
powerful indeed, but uncertain.
The whole movement of the no e ,
in fact, seems uncertain. It gives the
impression that Katharine Prichard,
moved by some strong impulse to paint
the life and the land of the
stations and by a feeling as muc
poetic as sociological for the decay of
the aborigines, made-up her s ory as
she went along. Bis, to^ a large extent,
what is called ad hoc ° u
think of one incident, then you think
hard and add another Nothing
happens inevitably, as it does in an
organically constructed drama where
all events flow from the sure develop-
ment of character. .
Here, Hugh might marry Jessica his
first fiancee, who arrives on the station,
and does not like the life, or he
might not. Except that an incident
would be missing, it would not matter
which way the decision went. Warieda,
Coonardoo’s husband, might die when
the witch-doctor points the bone
at him, or he might not: the novel
could get along just as well either way.
Hugh, when he disappears to town and
comes back unsuitably married to a
servant-girl, might have married any-
one or no-one—there is nothing in his
character to make it inevitable that he
should make so rash (and unlikely) a
choice. Geary might ravish Coonardoo,
or he might not—he always has an eye
for her, certainly, but has no settled
design or overwhelming passion. Hugh,
when he discovers that he has been
betrayed, might throw Coonardoo into
the fire, or he might not —it is only in
the afterthought that he is discovered
to be smouldering with suppressed
desire for her. Geary and Hugh, when
they meet again, might fight, or they
might not —it is mildly surprising that
they don’t. Hugh’s long-lost daughter
might suddenly return to the station or
she might not —she. is neither expected
npr needed. And Coonardoo, after
Hugh has thrown her in the fire, might
go off to the luggers and her doom, or
she might not —the likeliest thing, as
Hugh himself imagines, is that she
would creep back to the house again
after a few weeks.
There is no preparation for most of
these incidents; there is no tension;
consequently, with the drama also
weakened by its improbability, the
novel never moves with the sure
impetus nor strikes in the end with
the impact it needs for greatness.
Fundamentally the weakness lies in the
characterisation: the white women are
stock-characters, Coonardoo a fairy,
Hugh negative; only Geary—in the
little we see of him—has any real
force.
But if it has missed greatness, there
remain both a certain solidity and a
vein of poetry in this essentially
immature novel. Out of its realism in
everything but the central story comes
a rare picture of a way of life in remote
and beautiful country-—the cattlemen,
the blacks by the waterhole, the horses,
the cattle and the landscape with its
wildflowers and wild creatures. Out of
its episodic construction comes an
appealing naturalness, a lifelikeness,
which, while it weakens the drama,
possibly reinforces the interest of the
novel as a picture of this kind of Aus-
tralian life: slowed-down, casual,
governed so much by chance —the
drifting-in of a drought or a Sam Geary.
And out of its central unreality comes
a touch of the poetic quality of
legend: Coonardoo, no more than a
wraith of shy devotion, never for one
moment strikes me as a living portrait
of a black-gin; but as an embodiment
of the tragedy of her race —in the
abstract conception, the mere Noble
Savage, which other writers have too
often repeated —she has a wistful charm
which becomes, in the final chapters,
moving and dignified, like an elegy.
D.S.
LUCK OF THE MORNING
Sprayed wings on yellow road,
With all your brave young talk
Brother, you’ve lost the morning,
Said the old white hawk.
Feasting’s as good as napping
To blunt that finer care
For swift and lethal traffic
That takes the unaware.
Your rabbit’s dewy heart,
I have plucked from its rib,
And a post is fine to perch on
Tuckered to the bib;
But I was never hoodwinked
By hunger at a kill,
Eye must be overlord
Where chance has greater skill—
Therefore is frost upon my wings
While you are brown and dead,
So here’s to the luck of the morning,
The old hawk said.
N.Z.
GLORIA RAWLINSON.
Imaginary Cricket
Malleson at Melbourne, by William
Godfrey (Museum Press), breaks new
ground—it is the stray of an imaginary
cricket-tour of Australia by an M.C.C.
team.
No real-life cricketers can be recog-
nised. It purports to be a novel (the
name William Godfrey “disguises the
identity of one of the most striking
young English novelists of today”), the
basis of the plot being the conflict
between Malleson, the M.C.C. skipper,
and his deputy, Clarkson, who thinks
he should have been given the
captaincy.
Descriptions of play read truly, and
the scores of the matches, down to the
maiden-overs by each bowler, are given
in full. One or two slight errors in
figures and names, such as might
happen in a book of a real tour, have
crept in: for instance, the English
batsman Shaw’s average after the
second Test is 45, not 47, and, for the
one innings. Carstairs is given in one
place as . caught by Malleson and in
another by the ’keeper McLeon. A
more serious mistake, first-class
matches in Australia never continue
till 6.30. Though necessary, perhaps,
to the action, it is unlikely such a bad
umpire as Pollitt would be given a
representative game; and no Aus-
tralian cricket-writer ever writes with
such an English outlook as does Cal
Ashendale.
It’s all done very well, though it
seems to be only the clash between
Malleson and Clarkson that gives the
Australians any chance at all of
winning. The title derives from the
o Continued on page 35)


m
m
m
m
V.J
m
■
in
<S:-:vv
A
1
m
&
&8S
wk
wm
m
wm
m r- "' v
?V. ..y>-
Ta* /orms used to drive me crazy .
Then my wife bought a
Kelvinator from Anthony Horderns 9 .
Tax forms still drive me crazy , but boy ,
what a relief to know I only pay 5% interest and 16/2 wkly, .
for the best refrigerator in the world.
a TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
nthony Horderns’
fill!:
• Four popular models
• Kelvinator 1® cubic foot refrigerator with standard defrost, priced at £195/10/-
• Kelvinator 10 cubic foot model with fully automatic defrost, priced at £225/-/-
• Kelvinator 8 cubic foot model Spacemaster de luxe refrigerator, priced £166/-/-
• Kelvinator 7f cubic foot Spacemaster standard model refrigerator, at £146/10/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS ELECTRICAL CENTRE ON THE GROUND FLOOR, PITT S


The Bulletin
Vol. 77—No. 3989
Wednesday, July 25, 1956
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521 ;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
OUR HAUNTED ECONOMY
SOME radical change of form will be required if
the special Premiers’ Conference called for August
16 is to reach unanimity on problems vital to the
financial stability of Australia. No doubt one factor
deciding Treasurer Fadden to change his mind
about awaiting the return of the Prime Minister
was the difficulty of preparing State and Federal
Budgets in advance of decisions which might be
made at the conference. But a more potent
influence still was the knowledge that the June
cost-of-living figures would show a considerable
rise in prices, and the certainty that, with the impact
of the 10s. Federal basic-wage rise and the N.S.W.
fares-and-freights increases still to be felt, the
September quarter would continue the trend.
The Commonwealth Statistician released the
June figures last week; the rise in the C-series
index was the highest since 1952, equivalent in terms
of the Federal basic wage to 7s. a week in Sydney.
The announcement was followed by comments
reminiscent of 1952, at which time almost everyone,
including many “Labor” politicians and trade-
union officials, was convinced that the periodical
leaps and bounds of the basic wage were of no
real or lasting value to the recipients and that the
time had come to call a halt.
A halt was called in August, 1953, by the
Federal Arbitration Court, which. remarked in its
judgment that the decision gave “good ground for
an expectation that the prices of commodities,
particularly consumer-commodities, will tend at
least to be stabilised.” The court emphasised that
the basic wage was not a living wage “in the sense
of having been assessed at amounts purporting to
meet expenditures requisite to meet some standard
of needs.” It pointed out that the then basic wage
included “some 50s. a week which certainly has
no relation at all to any assessment of needs or
the cost of providing for them.”
This comment is of great importance, yet it
has been consistently ignored by the A.C.T.U. and
the State “Labor” Governments which have
moved in various ways to defeat the purpose of
the court by maintaining the practice of quarterly
adjustments on wages paid under State awards—
and also on the wages of Government employees
under Federal awards. Queensland ignored the
Federal court’s decision right from the start, and
the Cain Government in Victoria was not far
behind. Tasmania and Westralia at first suspended
the adjustments, but later conformed to “Labor”
policy. Cahill, in N. S. Wales, conscious of his
huge bill for railway- and tramway-wages, held
out for a long time, but finally bowed to the
dictates of the Trades Hall.
His policy of yielding to an ill-informed
pressure-group and of allowing himself to be led
by the nose when he should have been giving an
intelligent lead to the working community vitiated
the whole intention of the Federal wage-fixing
authority. Patience and co-operation were what
were most needed, but “Labor” Governments have
always been reluctant to tell their supporters
unpalatable facts, and their training unfits them
for the exercise of patience.
There is every reason to believe that the
suspension of automatic adjustments would have
had the desired effect if the States had co-operated
wholeheartedly. At the time of the suspension the
inflationary spiral was slowing down—the basic
wage rose 425. in 1951 and 30s. in 1952, but in
1953 the rise in the C-series index-number was
equivalent to only 9s. The steadying tendency
continued in the first part of 1954; there was no
marked rise in prices until after the “margins”
decision, the purpose of which was to restore to
skilled workers some of the advantage they had
lost over the untrained. That was the time when
the Premiers should have acted with restraint,
giving jhe economy time to absorb the extra cost.
Instead, they joined in the A.C.T.U. clamor for
margins-for-all, and to allay the “unrest” their
own party had created those who had not already
done so gave way to the agitation for quarterly
adjustments for Government employees and men
under State awards.
Legalistically the “Labor” Premiers claim
they didn’t interfere with their State industrial
courts, but the Federal Arbitration Bench, in its
judgment in the 40-hours case, showed how Gov-
ernment action can force the hands of the court.
That was the occasion when the N.S.W. McGirr
Government, with an election pending, jumped the
gun and legislated for a 40-hour week while the
Federal court was considering the case. The court
commented that it would be wrong for it to criticise
the exercise by a sovereign State of its powers and
it would not do so, but
it is, of course, very obvious that the N.S.W. Act
did alter very material economic and political
facts and did, during the hearing of the case,
present this court with a fait accompli in relation
to a substantial section of its industry and, to that
extent, did affect the freedom with which the
court might otherwise have acted.
Similarly, the recent addition of 10s. to the
basic wage can be said to have been forced on the
Federal court by the action of the “Labor” States.
It was the 40-hour week which really started
the inflation-ball rolling, though war-time controls
were for a while able to conceal the effects
statistically.
In the same judgment the Federal judges said,
We should not overlook that the workers
themselves will, in respect of the unadjustable
part of their wages and salaries, bear a very sub-
stantial part of the increased costs of the 40-hour
week.
This is another part of the judgment which
the “Labor” movement has never accepted,
preferring instead to pretend that wage- and salary-
earners can by some trick of administrative leger-
demain enjoy indefinitely the benefits of improved
living-standards in services and leisure without
paying for them. Despite all the outcry about wages
slipping further and further behind costs the Com-
monwealth Statistician’s index shows that “.real”
wages at the end of 1955 were still as high as they
were in June, 1953, shortly before the suspension
of quarterly-adjustments. There has been a slight
drop since, but the figure is still higher than at any
time prior to 1952.
At the meeting on August 16 Treasurer Fadden
is expected to suggest that the States should dis-
continue quarterly adjustments and undertake not
to legislate to increase wages under State awards.
The attitude of the four “Labor’-govemed States —
N.S.W., Queensland, Westralia and Tasmania—
has been that they will not agree to this unless
prices and profits are also pegged. This, of course,
is in accordance with trade-union and A.L.P. policy,
and so long as the Premiers accept the shackles of
that policy it is hard to see them accepting Fadden’s
proposals.
A third article of Evatt-“Labor” financial
faith—that it is possible for a Government to raise
as much loan-money as it wants at low-interest
rates even though it has found it impossible to get
enough at high-interest rates —has been discarded
by the “Labor” Premiers in their Loan Council
dealings, though they still give' it lip-service. The
necessity of having to raise money where it could
be found instead of in the magic fountains
apparently available to Dr. Evatt and the A.C.T.U.
forced them to accept this reality. Possibly Fadden
hopes they have been taught another lesson in the
facts of economic life by the soaring costs of
public-service and transport wage-bills, the direct
result of their preferring the one-sided opinion of
the A.C.T.U. to the carefully considered judgment
of the Federal Arbitration Court.
Europe's New Threat
WITHIN the past two years the face and outlook
of the world have changed in a revolutionary way.
This has been mainly because of what has happened
in Continental Europe, and there and elsewhere
in relation to armament and rehabilitation.
The post-war boom in British-speaking
countries of the West had been very largely the
result of the depressed or ruined conditions in
countries less fortunate: countries which have been
occupied by the enemy or “the Allies”; countries
whose normal competition used to peg the world
levels of livelihood, comfort and prosperity;
countries which have had to tool-up, stock-up,
building from the rubble with labor forces reduced
in number and depleted in efficiency by war.
The ruined countries had to pay, and they had
United States dollars to pay with, so they didn’t
care. The conquered all did really well at the
hands of the conquerors. The riposte of the
Japanese gentleman who responded to the compli-
ment that Japan had been docile under the
American occupation: “Who wouldn’t be docile
if somebody was giving him billions of dollars for
nothing?” might have been uttered with £qual force
right through Europe.
Germany, France, Austria, Italy have all been
pulled out of their ruin with two kinds of jack—
the jack of their own energy, plus industriousness
and will to work, and the kind of “jack” that comes
out of the U.S. and U.K. Treasuries.
They are rehabilitated to the point at which
they can compete in the heavy-industry business
against their helpers and rescuers on more than
equal terms. They have little unemployment.
Almost daily they snatch large contracts from
British and Dominion industry.
French, Germans and Belgians are supplying
railway rolling-stock and mining equipment which
three years ago came, as a matter of course, from
Britain. The French are carrying-out quarrying
contracts on the Snowy Mountains scheme which
Australia ought to be capable of carrying-out
with its own genius and labor. The Mormon
Church, in the guise of the Utah Construction
Company, is making a monkey of large-scale
constructional industry in Australia by modern
methods, even when it has to contend with a 40-hour
week and Australian union-leadership.
The United States, Germany, Scandinavia,
Italy, even Spain and Japan, are all going forward
with a rush because they are governed by a gospel
that hard work means prosperity. The British Com-
monwealth countries are caught in the spiral of
wage-rises and loaf and reduced hours. But, in
particular, the star of Continental Europe is rising.
As Mr. Menzies pointed out in Bonn, German
exports to Australia have increased more than
tenfold in the last five years, and this is very largely
true in regard to many other overseas countries
dealing with Continental Europe.
There is, however, another phase coming.
This arises from the new policy of Russia which
was outlined by Shepilov at the Twentieth Congress
of the Communist party in Moscow in February,
and passed almost unnoticed in the Western world.
It is a policy which explains almost everything that
Russia is doing.
Russia has not abandoned its determination
to act as the central organising base of world-
revolution, which Stalin in November, 1939, pro-
claimed it to be. Khrushchev announced the main-
tenance of the intention in the “Report of the
Central Committee” which declared: “Our party
has the inflexible resolve to achieve the great aim
—Communism.. . .It is invincible because it
is supported by the working-people of the whole
world. Under the banner of Marxism-Leninism,
which is transforming the whole world, the Com-
munist party will lead the Soviet people to the
complete triumph of Communism.”
Shepilov wrote the epilogue by proclaiming
the method, which tends to explain the new open-
arms method of approach to the West by the
guileful Soviet leaders. They propose to resume
an old plan. By gaining access to the Labor and
Socialist parties of Western countries they hope to
attach Communism to them as an ally and to
frame their policies for them from within a united
front by creating a vanguard leadership which may
not necessarily look Communist —in fact, to follow
the policy which is giving such fruitful results in
the A.L.P. in Australia.
In Australia conditions ideal for this technique
have long existed. Where “Labor” is in power an
outside union-junta makes policy; capture the
unions and the junta and you capture Government
and Parliament and the right to decide who shall
nominate for its seats, to control legislation through
members who are elected by threat of withdrawal
of endorsement.
This is only one leg of the new technique of
peaceful war on capitalism. The other is a dual
policy of using Communist parties outside Russia to
destroy capitalist economies by constantly urging
on the workers to demand higher wages, shorter
hours, less automation, slower work, more leisure
and more amenities and pensions and at the same
time using Russia’s undoubted advantages for price-
cutting in cQmmercial competition with the world,
beginning in Asiatic countries.
Every stress in Russia is on the building of
heavy-industry and the creation of a large reservoir
of modem technical skill. It has been highly
advanced since the end of the war, when Russian
technical methods were still antediluvian, largely
by using imported and conscripted German know-
how, till it has become a challenge even to the
United States, which, in the face of what Russia
and Germany are doing, is reorganising such train-
ing-centres as the great Massachusetts Institute of
Technology to meet the menace of modernised
European competition in technical skill.
There is no doubt about what is coming.
Shepilov said:—
We propose to the capitalist world that it
compete with us in the sphere oi peaceful
economic and cultural development. We are fully
convinced of the victory of our new, young,
thriving system.
If Russia sets out to convince the new countries
of Asia that it can produce export goods in compe-
tition with the European countries and the U.S.A.
it won’t be limited by many of the restrictions which
are handicaps in democratic countries. It has its
own method of wage-fixing and of determining
price-levels and standards of living not available
to countries which are not ruthless dictatorships.
It settles labor disputes with tanks and auto-
matic arms as it did at Poznan last month. Its
wage-fixing and hour-determination machinery is
entirely unanimous. It bears no argument. It tells
the worker to take such-and-such a wage and work
such-and-such hours —or else.
It seems, on the slant given to the new “peace-
ful” policy of Communism by the speeches at
Moscow in February, that Europe has as much to
fear from Russian industrial competition as from
Russian arms.


McGRR-R-R-R-R!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Blow, Joe!
Premier John Joseph Cahill, of
N. S. Wales, thought fit to deny
last week that he had, in a moment of
despair, exclaimed that the finances of
the State were so bad that the Govern-
ment was close to the “Jack Lang days.”
But the matter does raise a point which he
might well ponder over.
In J. T- Lang’s day it was the Govern-
ment Savings Bank of N.S.W. which
closed its doors and sealed the doom of
the “Labor” Administration of that time.
Under Cahill several State enterprises,
including the Blacktown tileworks
(Cahill’s own baby), have got into deep
water; but it seems as though it will be
the collapse of the N.S.W. Government
Railways (and associated transport)
and their exorbitant charges which will
ultimately bring the end of the Cahill
political racket.
One useful feature of the unbroken 15-
year term of “Labor” Government in
N.S.W. is that it has allowed “Labor”
policy and administration to run its full
course and reach its logical result.
“Labor” policy has for 40 years been
one of exploitation of what the other
fellow has done —“the redistribution of
wealth,” and all that sort of thing. For
15 years “Labor” in N.S.W. has worked
to death the railways assets (as well as
so many other public assets) that were
established by previous Administrations.
Its maintenance, renewal and extensions
have been wholly inadequate, even
making concessions for the punishment
transport took during the war. And, since
it is a trade-union-dominated Ministry,
it has allowed the railways to be run for
the benefit of the A.R.U. instead of for
the State as a whole.
The breakdown of the State railways
system, now so shockingly apparent, is
the direct result of the McGirr-Cahill
Administrations —the incompetence and
lack of constructive background of the
Ministry, the appointment of blown-out
politicians and favored trade-union
officials to jobs where technical ability
was essential, and the yielding to the
wanton demands of the unions and other
pressure-groups.
What has happened, in effect, in
N.S.W. —and it applies to many things
besides railways—is that, 15 years ago,
“Labor” took over, and since then the
McGirrs, the Cahills, the Sheahans, the
Kellys, the Heffrons and the rest have
dragged everything down to their own
level. Incompetence, decay, disorganisa-
tion and political perversion are every-
where.
The wreckage that the McGirr and
Cahill Administrations have caused in
essential services and industry in N.S.W.
(not to mention its spreading effect over
the whole Commonwealth) couldn’t have
pleased the late Stalin and the present
Khrushchev more if it had been done
by the Communists themselves.
Labor's Incubus
It would seem from the attitude of the
A.L.P. Executives, Federal and State, that
a conclusion has been reached that the
Cahill Government has become an
incubus and a danger to “Labor.” And
with good reason.
There is no doubt what would happen
to the arrogant, inept and suspect
thing which calls itself the “Government”
of N.S.W., and which is even shabbier in
most of its aspects than the Government
of Lang, if the electors had a chance to
implement second-thoughts on the last
election.
The breakdown of its transport, its
disregard for civil-service discipline,
its widespread failure with its public
works (some of which, if completed to
schedule, would have saved millions to
farmers and townsmen in flood-damage),
all advertise its nature.
The expulsion of its ex-Minister, Clive
Evatt, is obviously the first move in its
destruction, and it is clear to anybody
who has contact with industrial leaders of
“Labor” that no one awaits with more
eagerness than they the revelations about
drive-in theatres and other matters which
he promises to make, and the blast which
he says he intends to emit about the rises
in fares and freights.
It is quite clear that with the Cahill
Government in office, after a long train
of strange events, allegations and associa-
tions, those who are responsible for the
endorsement of its members are uneasy
as to whether the odor that hangs about it
might not presently lead the way to a
devastating uproar. They would like to
see the last of Cahill even at the expense
of putting “Labor” out of office, and if
his own people could find a way to do
it following the fare-rises and the
complete breakdown of suburban railway-
transport during the week he would go
tomorrow.
The Leftists of the United Front A.L.P.,
of course, dislike him more than they do
the Liberals. The Communist-led unions,
whose leadership is again making ground,
are pinning everything on the chances of
wins at the next Federal and Victorian
elections. They would feel it a great step
on the way to the realisation of these
Communist aims if they could put Dr.
Evatt and his henchmen E. J. Ward and
the fast-rising Johnson (of Hughes), who
was an employee of the Federated Clerks’
Union in the days when the Communist
party was its boss, into power at Canberra
with pliant Leftist “Labor” Governments
in office in the three eastern States.
This is now the aim of the Federal
A.L.P. Executive and the Communist
party in common, and there is accumulat-
ing evidence that they feel it would be
more easily achieved if the problems of
finance were left on the hands of the
Liberal-C.P. in the interval before the
next elections take place. They are, of
course, not unmindful of the fact that the
Federal Government has lost its Senate
majority and that the Federal Ministry is
moving towards major reconstruction.
Roads and the Rain
The wet weather, which has isolated
hundreds of properties, made hundreds
more unworkable, caused huge flood-loss
of stock and property and prevented
wheat-planting over whole districts, has
also emphasised how deplorably back-
ward Australia is in the matter of road-
communications.
There is no national policy, and the
State policy has been governed by fear
lest highways should sap the traffic from
the nearly bankrupt railways. In N.S.W.
in particular, everything possible has been
done to inhibit road-competition, and
now that road-competition has become
inevitable as the result of the Privy
Council finding, and heavy inter-State
traffic on which the balance of market-
supply depends in some perishable com-
modities has developed, it has been proved
how deplorable are inter-capital com-
munications.
Last weekend N.S.W. and Victoria
were cut-off from each other, except
through byroads over long detours. It
was reported that the flat 30 miles of the
Hume Highway between Tarcutta and
Holbrook, the main link with Melbourne,
was no better than a quagmire. This
stretch of road is barely above creek-
level. Even in India generations ago, all-
weather roads were built through such
stretches on the Grand Trunk sufficiently
high above waterlevel to place the sur-
face out of reach of normal floods and to
act as levees as well as highways, with
timber planted along the bases of the
embankments to prevent breaking-away.
On most of this stretch a rise of a few
inches in the waters covers the road.
By the weekend, the State Govern-
ment’s minions were having a frantic time
trying to prevent drivers of heavy-duty
trucks loaded with perishables from
breaking-through the barriers which had
been erected by the Main Roads Board
and wrecking whatever repairs are being
hastily improvised to make the Highway
temporarily trafficable.
The Army Minister offered help, but
it was refused by Mr. Renshaw.
What is happening in the Tarcutta area
is merely an incident, but it serves to
emphasise how casual is the whole road
policy of the Commonwealth. As the
director of the N.S. W. Chamber of Manu-
factures pointed out during the week,
“the total revenue from taxation on petrol
and the motor industry is £124 million a
year, and of this only £65 million a year
is spent on roads throughout the Com-
monwealth.” Taxation on motor-vehicles
will no doubt increase considerably in
the next few months —Viktoria already
has announced that there will be an
increase of an average of 50 p.c. in
registration-fees from November, mostly
on heavy vehicles to help repair the
damage done by floods and inter-State
heavy traffic.
Inter-State highways are surely a matter
with which the Commonwealth could
deal on its own initiative. It is cer-
tainly up to Canberra either to provide
all-weather communication suitable for
heavy defence and commercial fast haul-
age between all the capitals on a long-
term plan or assure that somebody else
does it.
It isn’t only the flat country in the
Riverina in which blockages occur. It
is not abnormal for the southward main
roads to be temporarily cut within 50
miles of Sydney.
Off-course Tote
“Collins St.”: Premier Bolte will out-
strip Premier Cahill on current form in
the race for the rich stakes to be won by
legalising and taxing off-course betting.
Present intentions are to pass the bill
in the Victorian spring session and to
have it proclaimed for operation within
a year.
Both Bolte and Rylah, his deputy, have
been impressed by the success of the
Totalisator Agency Board in Maoriland,
which Rylah had a first-hand look at
this year, so there is little doubt what
form the bill will take. The four metro-
politan racing-clubs in Melbourne now
are framing a skeleton for Government
drafting.
The Totalisator Agency Board has
been operating five years in New Zealand.
It has a central off-course organisation
which notes all bets made with it and its
agents, closes-down a considerable time
before a race, and telephones its com-
missioner at the course, who puts the
totals on each horse. The man at the
track gets precisely the same dividend
(if any) as the man pruning the Lorraine
Lee.
Rylah left no doubt about his favor-
able impression with the Maoriland
brainwave when he returned in March,
and since then West Australian pro-
tagonists of legalised s.-p. bookmakers
have recanted in favor of a tote scheme.
The T.A.B. has been operating five
years. Last year it handled £2O million,
of which it collected about £1,700,000.
Bolte sees this with the hungry eyes not
merely of a modest racehorse-owner
anxious to keep the race-clubs afloat but
also of a Premier who has been informed
that in the next 15 years State training-
hospitals will need an extra £2O million
to be maintained at a proper standard.
The organisation and establishment of
the totalisator-network will take at least
a year. New Zealand’s organisation has
been carefully developed. The premises
have been selected to avoid the objection-
able features of gambling-shops, and
some look like banks.
It should be quite a pleasant change
to the back-lane betting, with its hovering
element of gangsterism.
- ✓
Public-service Cuts
“In the ACT”: It is extraordinarily easy
for taxpayers’ associations and politicians-
out-of-office and newspaper leader-
writers to declare that Government
spending can and must be cut by reduc-
ing the size of the “swollen public
service.” It is almost equally simple to
point to many examples of redundant
jobs, of loafing, of excessively high
salaries in the p.s. The fact remains
that the entrenched privileges of the
public servant make a curtailment in
numbers a matter of the utmost difficulty.
Ministers are more apt to back their own
departmental heads in moves to boost
the size and importance ofi their depart-
ment than to take the hard and unpopular
line of insisting on real economies.
Therefore the problem can be best
tackled from the other end, and sug-
gestions are already being made in Can-
berra to that effect. The idea is that for
a period of two or three years all recruit-
ment to the Federal public service, includ-
ing temporary employees, should stop.
The only exceptions should be the sub-
ject of special reports to Parliament, and
subject to approval by vote of both
Houses. The departments would be
told, it is being suggested, that with no
more juniors or temporary employees
available, and with the gradual attrition
of numbers due to retirements and deaths
over a period of three years, they would
have to continue to do all essential work
with lessening numbers. Most Govern-
ment employees would have to work a
bit harder —which in 99 cases out of 100
would involve no real hardship at all,
and no overtime —and the unnecessary
jobs would be quickly discovered and
eliminated.
The plan would be useless if it were
believed that at the end of three years
vacancies would be suddenly filled.
It should be made plain that during the
period an independent committee of
capable businessmen would examine the
functions and work of the departments,
and assess the minimum needs of man-
power. The dozens of tame economists
who fall over each other in the corridors
of several Federal departments might
suffer, the clerks taking out reams of
unnecessary “statistics” might find them-
selves exposed to a bleak breeze for the
first time in their lives, but the civil
servants performing useful community
jobs, and contributing, though indirectly,
to production, would have nothing to fear
and everything to gain. In the meantime
the juniors who would otherwise find
shelter in the public service would be
able to enter private industry, with benefit
to themselves and to production of goods
and services.
Adoption of such a plan would
demonstrate that the Government meant
what it said when it asserted that all
sections of the community should submit
to economies in the interest of beating
inflation and expanding the output of
goods for sale at home and abroad.
1500-million Dollars
For a dollar-hungry nation, Australia’s
promotion of its tourist attractions in the
United States is pathetically inadequate,
and it is underlined by the grateful thanks
expressed to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment by Sir Charles Lloyd Jones, the
chairman, in announcing Australian
National Travel Association’s modest
plans, for a grant of £50,000 a year.
The latest comparable figures of
Government grants for advertising and
promotion abroad are those for 1954:
U.K., £941,000 ; South Africa, £207,000 ;
Hawaii, £120,000; New Zealand,
£150,000, and Australia, £15,000.
These figures relate to the Government
grants, not to total national advertising
for tourists, and there has been a large
increase in. the votes since 1954. Britain
is one of two nations probably spending
£2,500,000 a year in advertising itself;
Hawaii’s vote has jumped to £300,000,
and Maoriland’s promotion is supple-
mented by trade advertising.
American dollar-spending on travel is
colossal. The estimate was made early
in the season by U.S. travel-authorities
that $ 1500-million would be spent abroad,
and in the first two months of the season
a London “Daily Express” survey showed
250,000 Americans in Britain. Britain
officially expected 1,120,000 tourists
during the season, of whom 350,000
would be from the U.S. It seems the
official estimate will be outstripped.
Spending in Britain by all visiting
nationals is expected to reach £l9O
million.
The smaller countries have done
equally well. There were 200,000 tourists
in Greece last season, and they spent
£lO million. Every third visitor of 56,000
in West Berlin was an American.
Seasoned American millionaires such as
Randolph Sevier (president of the Matson
Navigation Co.), Alfred Bloomingdale
and Juan Trippe (president of Pan
American Airways) have been surprised
this year by our inertia in attracting
dollar-spenders. It is true they are in
disagreement about the allure of koalas,
abos and kangaroos, but they are
enthusiastically united about the Aus-
tralian sunshine, golf, skiing and fishing.
American travellers are increasing
numerically at the rate of 15 per cent, a
year, and Juan Trippe’s experts have
assured him they will travel increasingly
in—in this order —Japan, the Philippines,
South-East Asia, New Zealand and
Australia.
Canberra’s £50,000-a-year to A.N.T.A.
was given as a “mark of Government
confidence” in its work. It is com-
paratively trivial to an organisation that
is long established and national in
character when contrasted with the Vic-
torian Government’s £35,000 to the
newly-formed Victoria Promotion Com-
mittee, which has been organised to pro-
mote Victoria’s tourist charms.
The Victorian committee in its first
year has £50,000 to spend. A.N.T.A. has
£73,000, and hopes for £lOO,OOO. It is all
part of the pattern of Canberra’s incorri-
gible inability to rise to an occasion that
hasn’t been risen-to in every Budget since
Federation.
A.N.T.A. is aiming eventually at a
budget of £250,000, but at the present
level of Canberra assistance and thinking,
it may be too late, and American spend-
ing declining, when this level is reached.
Queensland Lands Inquiry
The full report of the Queensland Lands
Department Royal Commission was
released last week and will be tabled
when Parliament meets on August 1. No
further legal action, says Premier Gair,
will be taken on the report.
In finding former Lands Minister
Foley guilty of corrupt conduct in
soliciting £lOOO for “Labor”-party funds
from F. M, Bell, Townley, J., said that
he didn’t give the magistrate’s acquittal
of Foley a great deal of weight. He had
had more opportunity of observing Foley
as a witness, he had heard other wit-
nesses, and had had before him “evidence
which was not admitted by the magistrate
and Was not admissible before him.” He
had no hesitation in accepting Mr.
o Continued on next page)


Justice Philp’s evidence of his conver-
sation with Bell at the Queensland Club
“probably within fifteen minutes of the
conversation between Foley and Bell.”
As between Foley’s story and Bell’s, he
said an important factor in assessing
credibility was demeanor. On occasions
Foley “hedged and obviously floundered
and left me with a distinct feeling of
dissatisfaction.” It was not to Bell’s
credit that he was prepared to act against
his conscience so long as it was legal to
do so, “but it does not follow that he
was also prepared to commit perjury.”
On the other hand, an aspect of Foley’s
character revealed in transactions with
R. S. White showed “that he had no
very high regard for his duty as Minister
for Lands, and was prepared to prosti-
tute his office as such Minister for the
benefit of Mr. White.”
His Honor said he suspected that the
memorandum which purported to have
been put on Bell’s file by Foley on
December 14, 1949, had not been put
there until January, 1950, or later.
Besides the Dutton River lease, on
which the commissioner found Foley
guilty of corrupt conduct, there were
other transactions with White in which
the Minister acted with gross partiality.
Of Peter Fleming, mentioned in the
Senate by Senator Wood in connection
with allegations of corruption, the com-
missioner said he found “not a scintilla
of evidence” that he had ever had even
the remotest connection with any dealing
in any Crown lease. Nor could he find
any evidence of corruption in connection
with various leases mentioned by V. R.
Creighton (Lands Administration Board
chairman, now under suspension). On
the other hand, nothing in the actions of
Creighton could be interpreted as corrupt
conduct. His commission did not
require him to judge whether Creighton
or any other person had been guilty of
misconduct.
. Parliament will presumably get an
opportunity of discussing the report
when it is tabled next week. Gair has
so far been unusually reticent on the
subject He has said that no further
legal action will be taken. Will any other
action be taken? Three years ago, when
a royal commission found N.S.W. Mines
Minister J. G. Arthur had acted
improperly in connection with Reginald
Aubrey Doyle he resigned his seat and
was expelled from the “Labor” party,
which has since repeatedly refused to
readmit him. The offence proved against
Arthur was not so grave as those of
which Townley, J., has adjudged Foley
guilty.
POLITICAL POINTS
Cahill says that for his Government
to freeze the basic wage would be an
admission that it didn’t know where it
was going. Well, does it?
• •
With a disregard for superstition which
must have made some members shudder,
Mr. Wolfenden, who is to report on
N. S. Wales Parliamentary salaries, fixed
the final day for submissions by members
as Friday, July 13.
• •
Acting-Premier Rylah has asked other
Victorian Ministers to submit ideas for
economies in the Budget due in September
and has also asked businessmen for
suggestions to assist him in preparing
for Fadden’s anti-inflation conference.
He’s urgently in need of both ; the Spring-
street Treasury is facing a £5-million
deficit.
• •
“Labor” is howling for “action” to
meet the financial situation. As an
example to others, presumably, the
N.S.W. branch of the party is to decide
whether the State Government should
seek a return of taxing-powers from the
Commonwealth. Before instructing the
Cahills it will discuss the matter at its
State conference next June.
• •
An enginedriver involved in a train-
crash at Otford (N.S.W.) last week told
the “Sun-Herald” about a previous “slight
derailment” in which he had been con-
cerned. “I went to sleep and went the
points and was fined £4 for my trouble,
it was due to excessive overtime. I’d
done 40 hours in three days and I was
dead beat.” The N.S.W. State Govern-
ment is at present introducing legislation
to restrict the working-hours of drivers
of road-transport in the interests of
“public safety.” Unless the legislation
is made to apply also to train-drivers
the belief will surely arise that the legis-
lation is really in the interests of railway
finance.
• •
A Sydney landlord has applied to the
Fair Rents Board for permission to raise
the rents of 53 tenants by 50 per cent.
The tenants are trade-unions; the
premises involved are their offices; the
landlord is the Trades Hall.
• •
Coincidental with the release of the
new Holden (up £4O to £1142), Earl
Daum, G.M.IT.’s Australian boss, fore-
cast an export trade to New Zealand of
2000 Holdens this year. About 1700 have
been shipped since exports began late in
1954. Car-agents in N.Z. predict the
early development of a £AS-million-a-
-year market in Australian cars.
• •
N.S.W. Taxpayers’ Association has
suggested to the Cahill Government that
higher salaries for M.P.s should be
deferred until “economic stability” is
restored to the State. It points out that
while there is no doubt that Mr.
Wolfenden will deal capably with the task
set him, the responsibility for any increase
will rest on the Government.
Apart from the money involved, we feel
there are very important moral issues at
stake and that an example of restraint by
the Parliament is badly needed.
The example is needed, all right.
Whether it will be given is a different
matter.
• •
One outcome of the Adelaide meeting
of the Transport Advisory Council should
be a full-dress Commonwealth-States con-
ference aimed at a nationwide survey of
the needs and prospective development of
all kinds of transport. Rail-deficits, the
destruction of roads, the inadequacy of
highways, poor cargo-handling facilities
on wharves, air-freighting in remote
areas, and a variety of other subjects
should be fully documented and served up
piping hot to the Prime Minister and the
Premiers for open and frank discussion.
Transport is our commercial lifeblood.
In a war it could be crucial. It’s time we
looked at the complete picture, no matter
how intimidating the financial aspects
may be.
Despite retrenchments in the motor-
industry, talk of unemployment seems
rather premature. The Commonwealth
Employment Bureau had 30,000 vacancies
on its books at the end of June, and the
total number of persons on unemploy-
ment-relief was only 7003 —less than a
quarter of one per cent, of the work-
force.
• •
When the A.C.T.U. deputation asked
“Labor” Minister Hplt to ask the Gov-
ernment to appoint a royal commission
on profits it presented him with a mass
of written material “bearing on the ques-
tion.” This allowed Holt to suggest that
he should defer a reply until this informa-
tion had been analysed by the depart-
ment and he had considered the
matter. He suggested that the A.C.T.U.
should give some more detailed indica-
tion of the subjects which it thought
should be considered, and come back
again next month.
• •
Malaya is seeking a national anthem.
Prize, 10,000 Straits dollars ; requisites,
“a certain solemnity, dignity and stirring
quality.” Perhaps we could let them
have “Advance, Malaya Fair,” as a
Colombo Plan gift.
IRRESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT
“What’s that? Another complete breakdown of suburban trains?
Cost-of-living up again? Inflation out of hand in New South Wales?
Depression threatening? Well, why ask ME about it? I’m only the
unions’ stooge here!”
Land-tax was originally designed to
break up the big estates. It didn’t
succeed. Cahill’s new land-tax is purely
for revenue and much of it will be derived
from city properties. It’s a tax not on
profits but on capital-values, payable
irrespective of whether the property
shows a profit or a loss.
• •
Increases in wages in Victorian public
utilities covered by the 7s. c. 0.1. rise will
be Electricity Commission, £370,000;
tramways, £140,000; Gas Corporation,
£70,000; Board of Works, £12,000.
Melbourne City Council will have to find
another £33,000. Only the Gas Corpora-
tion and the Board of Works took the
news without hints about passing it on.
The Board of Works was sitting pretty.
It had just increased its rates.
• •
Most municipalities in N. S. Wales
have adjusted their rates on revalued
property so as to bring in approximately
the same revenue as before. Not so the
Water Board. It charges the same old
rate on the new valuations. In some
cases this means that this year’s water-
rates are almost double last year’s.
• •
“Symonym”: Melbourne has pro-
duced successfully its first public TV
show, a static picture of Spencer-street
Bridge, followed for an hour by cartoons
and documentaries; and there will now
be two-hourly screening periods every
week-day from Herald-Sun Television.
(The rival combination of Age-Argus-
Warner-Hoyts, General Television Cor-
poration, is a step behind, complacently
proclaiming it can avoid the mis-steps
the leader makes.) The first public test
was splendid and stimulated sales of sets
—which was, no doubt, its intention.
Both commercial groups expect to lose
substantially in their first years of opera-
tion, but have bought expensive
“successes” abroad.
o ®
After the unfortunate intervention of
the U.S., via its representative in Athens,
in the Cyprus problem, it is interesting to
learn of America’s own difficulties over
its vast base on Okinawa. The U.S.
forces have requisitioned 42,000 acres,
or about 12 per cent, of the total area of
the islands, to the dismay of the protest-
ing inhabitants. An investigating sub-
committee failed to satisfy the Okinawans
concerning the acquisition of new land
on a permanent basis, including another
12,000 acres sought by the U.S. Marine
Corps. The issue has become a redhot
political one in Japan, where there is
little sympathy with the strategic outlook
of the U.S., and where the ancestor-
worship of the Okinawans is regarded as
giving them the highest rights to lands
handed down by past generations.
• •
The Doc. wants Federal Parliament
summoned to discuss living - costs,
although he knows as well as anyone
how powerless Parliament is to do any-
thing without the agreement of all the
States. Evatt would be better employed
asking Cahill to come into line with
Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania
on State wages—but perhaps he’s not
speaking to Joe at the moment.
• •
It’s a wonder those unions which
recently asked the Cahill Government to
reduce the working-week in anticipation
of automation didn’t point out that
Russia reduced the working-week in
Soviet factories and offices four months
ago. As a result of this, while Australian
workers have to slave away for 40 hours
every week, Russian Comrades have to
work only 46. Previously it was 48.
• «
Opposition-leader Morton proposes a
six-point plan to get N. S. Wales “out of
its economic mess.” He thinks the Cahills
should
(1) establish public-works priorities, with
high priority for the rapid completion
of productive works;
(2) extend as far as possible the private-
contracts system for works;
(3) return wage-fixing powers to the arbitra-
tion court;
(4) set-up a productivity council of skilled
businessmen, scientists, and trade-
unionists to suggest the best ways for
increasing primary and secondary
production;
(5) prune State Government expenditure
to eliminate waste and inefficiency;
(6) overhaul the transport system to
increase efficiency and lower freight
costs.
Morton accuses the Cahills of having
strangled development in N. S. Wales,
thereby encouraging industry and workers
to drift to Victoria and S.A. It is a fact
that of the 193,000 migrants settled in
Australia during the past two years,
80,000 have gone to Victoria, against
46,000 to N.S.W.
© •
“K.Mc.”: The recent end-of-session
sitting at Canberra wasn’t nearly as
exhausting as the one held at the end of
June, 1938, which lasted almost 48 hours.
Some of the boys had smudged the fore-
head of J. H. Prowse as he dozed, and
later when Mr. Speaker tried to draw his
attention to it Prowse mistook the signs
for an early-morning greeting and bowed
gravely. Dr. Evatt’s predecessor for
Barton, Albert s Lane, was snoring so
vigorously that Bernie Corser suggested to
the Chair “that the honorable member for
Barton be no longer heard.” At one stage
when only Prime Minister Lyons and
J. L. Price, who had the floor, were
awake, the P.M. asked Price to desist
from thumping the table as he “might
wake the boys.”
• •
The meeting of the Agricultural Coun-
cil, scheduled for Canberra last week,
was postponed because of the illness of
two State Ministers for Agriculture. New
arrangements are being made, and the
meeting will be in August, possibly
coinciding with the special Premiers’
Conference.
How True!
FROM “The Great Australian
Adjective” by W. T. Goodge (a
Bulletin versifier of the 1890’s):
The roads were bad and muddy;
Said he, “Well spare me days,
The Government’s —— ways
Are screamin’ funny,


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
"DEPORTED from Cloncurry (Q.) that
. a motorist who left the ignition-keys
in his car was fined for not leaving the
vehicle secure. At this rate, my wife
will soon be facing a fine for forgetting
, to lock the backdoor when she goes out.
1 Laws used to be framed to protect the
law-abiding. Today, it seems, the
criminal must be protected from the
honest man, to the extent that laws are
passed to punish those otherwise honest
men who “tempt” criminals. The claim
made by Inspector Risch, of the Queens-
land Traffic Department, that the
motorist, by leaving the keys in his car,
is tempting someone to take it, leads quite
logically to the conclusion that the mere
possession of property is a crime, in
that it tempts others to steal. —“Remar.”
<j«
“Hiped”: Grading Irene was a head-
ache. Her only interests were boys and
films. “Ask your mother,” said the
Head in desperation, “just what she does
want you to be.” The reply relieved the
situation not one whit: “Mum said except
for teaching and nursing and commercial
work she isn’t very fussy so long as it’s
something spectacular."
■*s!•
“Opsimath”: Regular Saturday-after-
noon deluges don’t discourage Melbourne
suburbanites from pottering about in
their gardens; but one greenfingered gent,
pruning roses in the rain on the Pascoe
Vale-road brought me to a momentary
full stop. He was wearing a military
uniform, minus badges of rank. From
peaked cap and button-up-tight collar
to knee-to-ankle leather gaiters he was
the complete Red Army infantryman!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Becks”: Sign of the changing times
and fashions. In the window of a Sydney
men’s store, alongside pricey two-piece
suits, are displayed three waistcoats at
five-bob each.
“Doric”: In our London hotel one
could enter a bathroom at any time,
morning peak-hour or otherwise, and
find it vacant, the floors and tubs dry,
with no evidence that it had been, or was
likely to be, used. On the Continent it
was different —all the bathrooms were
locked, and one had to call a maid to
open them. When I did this in
Florence, excitement was intense —the
whole domestic staff was in a hubbub.
After much preparation, I was cere-
moniously led along many passages until
I came to the Holy of. Holies—the bath-
room. It was large, and in the centre was
an immense bath, full to the brim with
boiling water. I had to wait till it cooled
sufficiently to put my hand in to pull the
plug, so as to add cold water. Four-bob
for this luxury.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Pronto”: This New Australian surely
qualifies for re-classification. Asked by
the police what he would do if involved
in an accident, he promptly answered,
“Change my name and address.”
* *> *
“Buskin”: Ned Kelly had better look
to his laurels —the Sentimental Bloke’s
running him a close second. Ned has
“We're transferring you to Dubbo branch , Proctor. You don't seem
to be able to concentrate here.”
appeared in fiction, drama, verse, ballet,
art and film. The Bloke has managed
verse, art, film, ballet and music and has
now made an appearance on long-
playing microgroove. A local production,
it does The Bloke and Doreen full
justice.
♦** ❖
“Malua”: He’d evidently had his fair
share of mother-in-law strife. “She’s
just an old witch,” he confided to his
offside*. “In fact —as I told her to her
face—she ought to be a test-pilot in a
broom-factory.”
“Hello, Tom? Tm afraid I have some had news.”
“Avon”: Are bandsmen less versatile
than they were? The question is
prompted by an old photograph of a
bicycle-band in Christchurch (N.Z.).
Formed in 1892, and claimed to be the
only one in the world, it came into being*
through the efforts of Samuel Stephens,
the English bandsman, and a local
enthusiast, Fred Painter. It lasted till
1910. Nine players appear in the photo,
all mounted on two-wheelers. One is
belting his drum with one hand, steering
with the other; cornetists, trombonist
and French-horn adopt the same method
of locomotion on a macadam road. How
they kept formation, wobbling neither
in note , nor direction, beats me.
* ♦> *
“Paddy”: There’s something about
bookshop bargain-sales that gets you. I
walked into one “just to look around”
and came out with a book on how to
grow gladioli, an encyclopaedia of place-
names and two volumes on military
tactics, all of which “may come in handy
some day.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”: The fact that some
Springboks don’t speak English is some-
times inconvenient, but according to a
story going the rounds in New Zealand
it has its advantages. When one S’African
lot were touring England a member of
the aristocracy entertained them at his
baronial hall. Just as they were about
to sit down a factotum of the manor
approached the skipper and
said meaningly that the plate
to be used at the banquet was
highly prized by his lordship.
The captain thereupon asked
his host if he might open the
meal with grace said in
Afrikaans. He then addressed
his team in that lingo: “Look
here, you jokers. The old
chap’s got a lot of good stuff
on the table. If I see any of
you with so much as a spoon
in his pocket he’s got to reckon
with me. Amen.” Then the
bowed heads were raised and
the feast commenced.
“Wusslean”: My spouse insists that
linoleum must be polished—everyone
polishes lino.; it wears out quickly if you
don’t. And, besides, appearances must
be kept up. My own difficulty in keep-
ing-up on a polished surface she attri-
butes to “the clumsy way” I walk. But
at last I have an authoritative statement
which will, I hope, put an end to this
hazardous practice. An Essex coroner,
inquiring into the death of a woman who
had slipped on highly-polished lino.,
declared that the housewifely habit of
polishing floors was “an iniquitous
system,” and advised the woman’s
husband to refrain from polishing floors
unless he wanted to risk shortening his
own life. Next time I slip on the kitchen
lino., my denunciation of the iniquitous
system will be supported by irrefutable
documentary evidence.
❖ ❖
“Versal”: A friend arrived back from
lunch on her first day in a new job to
find all the office staff listening atten-
tively to a large, hearty man, dressed in
tweeds. “Yes,” he was boasting, “I find it
quite a job to keep my weight down. I
belong to two or three clubs, and I’m very
well known all round. After lunch with
one client and a few drinks with another
. . . well, you know how it is. These
social contacts are essential in business,
but they play the devil with one’s weight.”
Obviously one of the directors, she
thought. But no—the local ratcatcher!
❖ ❖
“C.P.G.”: There are careers for all in
the Commonwealth public service.
Latest example is given in an advertise-
ment in the Commonwealth Gazette call-
ing for applications for the position of
experimental assistant at Maribyrnong
(Vic.) “to carry out measures in creep-
testing.’ Sounds a fascinating profession,
but young girls and old men who fancy
themselves as creep-testers are warned
that “These duties are considered more
suitable for an adult female.”
❖ ❖
“S.M.S.”: Friend, a salesman in one
of Sydney’s large department-stores,
boasts of how easy it is for an unsatisfied
customer to get a refund at this shop.
Accordingly, when a woman returned
an umbrella, demanding her money back,
he willingly gave her £5 19s. 1 Id. He was
replacing the brolly on the stand when a
fellow-salesman saw it and remarked,
“Thought it was the last one of that type
that the woman shoplifted this morning?”
❖ ♦>
AT sea once again on a destroyer. After
the squeamishness had eased —years
ashore play havoc with a once-seasoned
stomach —the radar-officer, young and
keen, showed me around. Bemused and
fascinated—apparently these days the
captain sinks his enemy from a remote
room glowing with phosphorescent radar-
tubes, the bridge is used mainly for sun-
baking, and if the first pull of the plonker
doesn’t score a direct hit something’s
badly wrong—l asked: “And seaman-
ship? That hasn’t changed, of course.”
The technician went on talking about
strobes and traces and radar-plots. That
afternoon fuelling from another destroyer
while under way was on the programme.
I repaired to the bridge, wondering
whether that would be done by elec-
tronics. It wasn’t. The slicing approach
of the other ship was done as of yore,
and just as beautifully. The line was
heaved, the messenger and then the tow-
wire were passed ; the fuelling destroyer
sat back on it in as clean and quick an
operation as I’ve seen. A now-retired
admiral once wrote: “Seamanship has
been, is, and always will be, the prime
concern of a fighting Fleet.” Nice to
know his dictum is still, in the midst of
electronic marvels, appreciated.
“Bosun’s Mate.”
DON’T BE AN APE, RUFE!
“Rufus, the 12-year-old bachelor orang-
outang of Sydney’s Taronga Park Zoo, has
been refusing obstinately to go to bed. Trust-
president Sir Edward Hallstrom said: ‘Perhaps
he was lonely ; but soon he will have a mate.
We are going to make the introductions next
month.’ ”
Gone for you, Rufe, that period of
gladness
When all your world was sparkling,
full of joy ;
Your hairy phiz reflects a growing'
sadness.
Has time become the harder to
employ ?
For long, before your bars, the human
horde had,
By their diversity of type and look,
Amusement rich and satisfying afforded
You. And you deemed your durance
well rewarded.
Now, from your nook,
You view with somewhat jaundiced eye
the dozens
Who gather there to gink and gawp
all day ;
Those who (though they’d deny it) are
your cousins —
And not too far removed at that, you’d
say !
Life has, for you, lost something of its
savor.
Rufe, Homo sapiens sometimes gets like
that —
Your peanuts and bananas lose their
flavor ;
Everything’s out of joint, and in disfavor;
Life’s fallen flat.
This agitated mood that’s now possessed
you,
This most unnatural urge to spurn your
couch,
Are symptomatic of a deep unrest you
Are suffering, the cause of all your
grouch.
The celibate life to which you’ve been
addicted
Perhaps denies your ego’s sublimate.
Well, Rufe, soon you’ll no longer be
afflicted,
For in Romance’s coils you’ll be
constricted:
You’re getting a mate!
Sir Edward’s going to make the
introductions ;
Oh, all will be respectable and correct!
No jungle - sparlings, no primeval
ructions ;
Your' manners, Rufe, you’d better
soon perfect.
Yet, in your simian mind maybe you
wonder
(As very often does the human goof)
If you’re not making a colossal blunder —
Your peace, perhaps, rent permanently
asunder.
Anyway, good luck, Rufe!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


FOR all Sydney’s after-dark attractions,
the city’s most coveted night-spot is
the Observatory. The Ob.’s four-nights-a-
week “box-plan” for the public (organised
parties, limited to 15) is usually booked
out 15 to 18 months ahead. Chief
Astronomer Harvey Wood tells me it’s
been that way for years. Not, he
says, from any widespread scientific
interest in astronomy, but because “a lot
of people just like to have a look at the
stars.” —“Kune.”
$4
“Sparks”: Victorians won’t welcome
the news that the Brisbane River is now
muddier than Melbourne’s Yarra, but
it’s true. Recent tests by Marine Depart-
ment experts showed that during May
about 445,000 tons of mud from the
upper reaches of the river swirled past
the Hamilton test-point at about 14231 b.
a second in a one-knot tide. Each gallon
of water carried 37.8 grains of silt;
enough mud was carried downstream to
cover a 10-acre farm with topsoil 3ft.
deep. One heretical expert said the Yarra
was never at any time as muddy as the
Brisbane River is now.
❖ ❖
“Mugga Way”: Visitors to most art-
galleries in the U.S. can buy at modest
cost authentic reproductions of famous
paintings exhibited there, as well as
facsimiles of sculpture, ceramics, folk-
art and handicrafts from various parts of
the world. This has become big business,
with receipts touching about seven-
million dollars a year. Authorities regard
the sales as primarily an extension of
their galleries’ educational functions, but
one effect has been improved designs in
many kinds of manufacture. This seems
an example Australian galleries might
follow with profit to themselves and
pleasure to their patrons.
“Renraw”: Profound reasoning of the
sapient female! The weekly wash
flapped on clotheslines in inclement
weather. Back-fence gossip was inter-
rupted several times to remove half-
dried clothes from the line, to be
repegged as the sun broke through. After
a couple of hours of salvaging the semi-
dries one housewife reached the end of
Before the recession We Was building great, palatial
ten-thousand-quid luxury homes."
her tether. She pegged her wash on the
line, turned-on the hose and drenched
tne lot. “Now I won’t have to worry
over what s dry and what isn’t,” she told
her neighbor.
“Clem”: The lengthy title of “Geep’s”
whisky-tome (B. 27/6/’56) reminds me
that I once came across a slim treatise
on the theological pros and cons of
whiskers. Written by James Ward (1769-
1859), the book was called A defence of
the Beard on Scriptural Grounds—giving
18 Reasons why Man is bound to grow
a Beard unless he is indifferent as to
offending the Creator and Good Taste,
“Jon Lyn”: “Sandgroper’s” quest for a
“curn-loaf” (B. 11/7/’56) reminds me of
a like embarrassment suffered by a young
Scot, a junior in a publishing house,
who was sent to an airline-office for a
photo of a “Comet undergoing repairs.”
The girl at the inquiry counter wrestled
with his burr for some minutes before
she hazarded an interpretation: “Is it
current underwear repairs you want?” she
asked. Scotty beat a hasty and confused
retreat; I’d love to know what the lass’s
next move would have been had he
answered “Yes.”
*l* »>
“Bert the Carpenter”: I knew one of
those people who “don’t feel the cold”
(B. 27/6/’56). He was the genuine article.
A bit on the plump side, but not
blubbery, he took a swim every
morning all through winter.
He’d work on the framework
of a high building in the
bitterest weather, wearing only
a shirt, trousers and sandshoes
without socks. He used to
boast he’d never had a cold.
Then he copped his first attack
of influenza; pneumonia fol-
lowed, and he was dead within
a few more hours. We were
surprised, but his doctor
wasn’t. He explained it thus:
“Generally the way with these
never - had - a - day’s - sickness
people. Through not contracting any of
the common complaints their systems
don’t build up any antibodies against
infections. As a result, when they do
catch something they may go out like
a candle.”
>j«- £4
“Moorapi”: Legal decorum was
momentarily suspended in a Melbourne
court while a motorist of three-score
years stood on his head and leapt smartly
back to his feet. He was demonstrating
what he had done in the course of
sobriety-tests at a police-station, the
acrobatics being a voluntary part of the
performance. Jury, in absence of further
police denial of the youngster’s athletic
prowess, acquitted him of drunken and
dangerous driving.
»;♦ »> ♦♦♦
“Zorok”: For the sports-day of a
country high-school some of the girls
wanted to wear gym-tunics instead of the
shorts prescribed. But the sports-master
was adamant. “Tunics are out,” he said.
“It’s to be shorts or nothing!” The
brides-to-be wore shorts.
♦Jt
“Ymar”: Seasick-tablets (B. 27/6/’56)
are one way of combating mal-de-mer;
there are dozens of others. Faith in the
cure undoubtedly helps; though a
thought of the assorted objects floating in
wharfside waters might well defeat even
the firmest faith in the efficacy of a glass
of seawater. A pad of cottonwool
strapped to the solar-plexus gives relief
to some; the same can no doubt be said
of a drink of champagne, or vinegar,
eating an apple, eating a large meal, fast-
ing, lying down, keeping up, walking to
windward, wearing shaded glasses,
repressing the diaphragm, deep breath-
ing, plugged ears, and all die other cures.
Novelist Cecil Roberts, after 20 years of
trying anything and everything, declared
all equally useless. One cure made him
deaf, another voiceless, and a third
temporarily blind. Of the supposedly
infallible pojous plaster on the diaphragm
he says: “Seasickness in normal condi-
tions is an unspeakable agony, but sea-
sickness with a porous plaster tearing at
one during every convulsive spasm is the
refinement of cruelty.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Rimutuka”: Going the rounds is the
cricket-yarn of the Yorkshire lad
“Well, Well! You're painting my favorite sleeping-quarters ."
domiciled in Sydney, who excitedly
relayed the news that Miller “came right
back on his stoomps.” “Stumps, not
stoomps,” he was told. “Naw!” says he.
“Stumps is what you put on letters.”
♦t< +l+ ♦>
“S.C.R.”: Commissioner Grinsted,
Eastern Australia Territorial Commander
of the Salvation Army, told this one on
his Queensland tour. He visited Sweden
in the- capacity of the Army’s inter-
national-youth secretary. His Swedish
was non-existent, and on seeking a few
words which might help him strike-up
friendly relationships without the stiff
formality of an interpreter he was told
that if he said in English “Who stole the
till?” that would be the Swedish equival-
ent of “How do you do?” Armed with
this intelligence he approached a group
and smilingly demanded, “Who stole the
till?” The girls curtsied, the boys gave
a little bow of acknowledgment.
Encouraged, he continued on his way
with a “Who stole the till?” here and a
“Who stole the till?” there. “Until,”
related the commissioner, “after about
150 repetitions of it I was beginning to
wonder who did steal the darned till 1 ”
“Cecla”: She objected to buying our
lottery-ticket from the local agent.
“Whenever he sells a winning ticket he
tells everyone. He’s not going to get the
credit for our win.”
♦> ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: We were expatiating on the
glories of the Taj Mahal —the graceful
dome, the lofty arches, the gardens, the
vistas—when our Italian friend who’d
once toured India with an opera-com-
pany made his contribution. “And very
comfortable, too. Hot and cold!” We
gazed at him puzzled, till one of us
remembered there’s a pub in Bombay or
somewhere which bears the same illus-
trious name.
♦S *s >s
“Con Fuoco”: I held office in a
society which decided to get itself regis-
tered under the N.S.W. Charities Act.
From that hour I was persecuted by a
police-sergeant who’d come banging on
my door at any old time, holding-up my
work while he dragged out all my past
history. Other members were subjected
to the same sort of thing; the ladies
were particularly upset when policemen
arrived without warning and their land-
ladies began to get the idea that their
“guests” might have been consorting.
After I’d assured my sergeant about 10
times that I’d had no convictions—no,
not for murder, rape, robbery-under-
arms, speeding, driving - under - the -
influence, nor had ever been hauled up
before the Beak at the juvenile courts
as a youngster—he suggested silkily that,
with such a lilywhite record, I wouldn’t
mind being fingerprinted. As a re-
spected citizen I did mind, and waxed
indignant, but he tried to soothe me with
the information that office-holders had
been known to skip off to other States
with the funds. As any society I’ve had
anything to do with always got more out
of me than I got out of it, I still wasn’t
pleased.
“Bo”: Joe complained that his arms
always felt tired lately, and that' he’d
have to go and see an eye-specialist. It
didn’t seem to make sense, until he
explained that he now had to hold the
heavy telephone-book out at full arm’s-
length to read the small print.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pioneer Paddy”: Morning-tea time in
a Hobart cafe. Two women enter and sit
at my table. One reads the menu, and
plumps for a double-decker sandwich.
“How about you, Duck?” she asks her
friend. Duck reads the card over and
says she thinks she’ll try this “Welsh
rabbit.” “Oh, don’t risk that, Duck,”
warns the first lady. “Not with all this
myxomatosis about.”
AT MAITLAND
Is an angel in at the Angel Inn?
I ask, for I declare
I've been to the George and Dragon
And only George was there.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.
TOPS IN POPS
A DREAD spasm in the lumbar region,
■*-*“ plus an intense dislike for house-
hold chores involving sooty chimneys,
culminated in a decision to banish for
ever from hearth and home all
trace of forest leviathan or subterranean
fossicking.
In this, presently aided and abetted
by Voice, which suggested (per air-
wave) that perfection-plus, mess-free,
room-warming apparatus was available
immediately to successful competitor in
exciting contest: no nerve-racking
exposure to rapier-witted Mind Master,
no tedious testing of sponsor’s products,
no raiding of musty shelves for
appropriate ending to impossible rhyme.
No, siree! The only requirement was
the listing in correct order of the seven
topmost tunes according to current
plebeian fancy.
Highland forebears and a pathetic desire
to dodge an unpleasant household duty
prompted swift mailing of entry. The
result—a modest three —whetted the
appetite for more. However, since it
seemed the popular palate must not be
trifled with, a certain amount of concen-
tration and effort was evidently desirable.
With a tearful farewell to such old
favorites as the Market Report, the String
Quartet and that ever-intriguing
mystery “Crime on your side,” listening-
habits were completely reorganised. An
amazingly polyglot mixture was sifted,
sorted and scanned.
Confident that success was just around
the corner, and completely “pop
besotted,” writer went into action, only
to discover that, despite the elaborate
and painstaking preparations, submitted
list was still astoundingly at variance with
the masses —dreams of fireside bliss
finally shattered for ever by announce-
ment that list hadn’t scored so much as
a single placegetter.
Some knowall in sunny Queensland
collected the room-warmer.
BELLE CARLIN.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Sir Earle Page, M.P., on a Grand Old
Man of Medicine:
Dr. Robert Scot Skirving, who passed on last
week in Sydney, had been a most remarkable
figure in the Australian medical profession for
over 70 years. He was a great doctor, a great
writer, a great teacher and a great citizen. He
was descended from Scotch, English, French
and Irish sources, and was in a sense a citizen
of the world; but he was a great Australian.
As a boy he trained on the Conway for the
British Navy, but was invalided out —and lived
to be 96, after serving with distinction in the
Boer War and the First World War (in which
two of his sons also served; one, a doctor
of great promise, was killed at Suvla Bay).
Despite the time lost in the Navy, Scot
Skirving graduated from Edinburgh University
at the age of 21, in 1881. He became super-
intendent of Royal Prince Alfred, Sydney, for
the years 1883 and 1884. On his resignation he
became an honorary assistant-physician (1884-
89) and then full honorary physician (1889-
1911). From 1912 until his death he was an
honorary consulting physician to that famous
hospital. At the same time this versatile doctor
was honorary surgeon at St. Vincent’s Hospital
from 1889 to 1923, and then an honorary con-
sulting surgeon there until his death. He was
a foundation-member of the Royal Australasian
College of Surgeons and a member of the
Council of the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians.
He thus combined in hjs person both surgical
and medical specialties. This very fact shows
him as a remarkable link between the practice
of medicine and surgery before and after the
great discoveries of modern medicine and,
particularly, the aids to diagnosis of radium,
X-rays and the like. His early apprenticeship
to the sea taught him how to tie knots securely
around bleeding vessels. This was especially
valuable in the days before asepsis, when the
first maxim of surgery was to “get in quick and
get out quicker.”
His intelligence, acute observation of human
nature, and wide experience made him a great
diagnostician. It also made him a great teacher.
Scot Skirving knew his Bible from cover to
cover. He punctuated his clinical lectures with
apt quotations from the “Old Book” and from
his nautical and general experience; and made
an impression on his students which stayed with
them for life.
He conducted a big practice on the highest
plane. If he found a patient only imagined him-
self sick, he sent him empty away. Consulted by
a lady surfeited with the social round, he
examined her and wrote a prescription: “Two
millet brooms.” By the time she had worn
out the brooms, he explained, she would be all
right. The lady went to a more fashionable
and discreet physician.
Scot Skirving had a lively sense of humor
and a wonderful store of anecdotes. He was a
charming companion, and a wise adviser for
young doctors, in whose problems he was
always interested. He retained, almost until the
day of his death, complete possession of his
faculties. He was able to come down to his
office —“the receipt of custom,” as he called
it —to see old friends, even if there were no
patients. A few days before his death he was
desolated because he could not come to the
dinner which the Country party was giving in my
honor, as he “couldn’t stand the smoke of
tobacco.” He himself had always chewed
tobacco, but smoke now upset him, and he
didn’t think “all the others should be forced
to chew tobacco also.”
Everyone who was privileged to know him
will always think of him as one of those
bright spirits who both enjoyed and enlivened
life while he was here, and who left the world,
by his noble service to humanity, very much
better than he had found it.
• •
Captain John Harnetty, who has done
a good job of public-relating for the
Army in Malaya, dropped in on his
ARMY PUBLIC RELATIONS
return to Sydney. At 42, he’s seen a
fair bit of territory since he left Australia
in 1?40 with the 2/Ist Pioneers. A staff-
sergeant in the Middle East, he later
served in New Guinea and Borneo, and
after the war went back to what he’d
been doing before radio-publicity.
Joined 8.C.0.F. press-unit in early
1948, was due to come home when the
Korean War broke out, stayed to do a
p.-r. job with 77 Squadron; also with
the Commonwealth Division at various
periods. Then back to Australia, and
off again to Malaya with the Australian
contingent.
• •
Passed the 105th milestone in Perth,
Mrs. Martha Addenbrookq, who was born
in England in 1851, and managed her
own home until five years ago. Four
generations of her descendants attended
the birthday-party.
• •
’ Melbourne Racing Club is cockahoop
about the new handicapper, Edward H.
(Ted) Williams, who takes over forth-
with. A sun-tanned countryman, whose
home is at Cootamundra (N.S.W.), and
an ex-serviceman, he has already weighted
horses for more than 1000 meetings, took
the Randwick stipendiary stewards’
course, and has acted as stipe at N.S.W.
provincial meetings. His first weights will
be for the important J. J. Liston Stakes
meeting at Flemington on August 15,
and he’s resigning immediately from the
N.S.W. Southern Districts Racing Asso-
ciation. It will be like being raised from
the Maiden Plate to weight-for-age.
• •
“Allan B.”: Reginald Stephen, former
Bishop of Tasmania and later of New-
castle, whose passing at the age of 94
has been noted (B. 18/7/’56), was one
of Geelong Grammar’s first crop of
pupils—his father was a founder of the
now-famous school. At Trinity College,
Melbourne, the late Bishop gained a
reputation for wit and high spirits, and
for a line of independent—in fact, radical
—thinking which was characteristic of the
man who reckoned every young fellow
should be revolutionary; even in later
years he had a fresh, critical and candid
turn of mind. From 1910 to 1914 he
was a very forthright Dean of Melbourne,
then was Bishop of Tasmania for five
years, going to Newcastle in 1919 ; he
retired in 1928 owing to his wife’s ill-
health. He went to great lengths to help
many a rector where help was needed,
but he could be glacial with grumblers.
If not the greatest scholar of his church
in Australia, he was the best educated.
• •
A Scottish medico. Dr. Elizabeth Gib-
son, has been appointed medical-super-
visor of infant health in Westralia. She
was in charge of the Medical Auxiliary
Service in Sarawak when the Japanese
invaded Borneo, was interned and spent
nearly four years as M.O. of a camp for
women and children. Her work there
won her honorable mention in Agnes
Keith’s book, Three Came Home. For
the past 10 years she has been a
medical-officer with W.A.’s Education
Department.
• •
“D.”: Burly, tweedy, companionable
Aubrey H. L. Gibson, appointed Mel-
bourne National Gallery Trustee from
a strong field of nominations including
Tristan Buesst, Ken Myer and others,
has been round the world continuously
and into every notable gallery frequently
—just the sort of knowledgeable fellow
Governments should appoint to give
counsel.
He’s a collector (particularly of the
younger Australian artists); connoisseur
(having taken a silversmith’s course);
sketcher (not much chop as a young
artist); Rat (of Tobruk); traveller;
sportsman; agriculturist; writer {The
Rose Bowl, a travel-book); entrepreneur
(director of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust); art-director (in a way ;he shows
50 pictures in the gallery of his home at
Toorak, and rings the changes with 200
others).
He went into business when his paint-
ing failed to stun his friends, and now is
chairman of A. H. Gibson Industries,
Ltd., and, to prove that’s no mere stroke
of fortune, has been president of the
Institute of Sales and Business Manage-
ment.
• •
Benjamin McCleery,'of Borden (W.A.),
has, at 83, taken-off on a three-months’
trip to Ireland and back. He will touch-
down at Boston (U.S.A.) for a reunion
with his 79-year-old brother, whom he
hasn’t seen since he left Belfast 60 years
ago to join what was then the Westralian
postal-service.
Allan Pickering becomes new Clerk of
the N. S. Wales Legislative Assembly, on
the retirement of H. Robbins. An M.B.E.
and M.Ec., Pickering is 55, has been on
the Parliament House staff since 1922,
and has been Assistant Clerk since 1947.
A councillor of the Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W., he’s also hon. sec.
°f Agricultural Societies Council of
Country Shows (whose office is con-
veniently opposite Parliament House, in
Macquarie-street), thus providing a
valuable personal link between the R.A.S.
and the country shows.
Flight-captains of R.A.A.F. Transport Flight, Japan, sketched at
Canberra; l. to r., Flight-Sergeant lan Robert Walker, 25, from
Melbourne; Flying-Officer Robert Eric Chaseling, 24, Melbourne;
Flying-Officer Denis Carter, 24, Melbourne; and Squadron-Leader
Gordon Waller, 34, from Balwyn (Vic.) but originally from England.
Waller was with R.A.F. squadrons 221 and 69 (Malta) during War
H. and on his earlier tour of duty was A.D.C. to General Robertson.
Brisbane Office: George Green, whose
caricature appeared on “Personal” page
last week, is, of course, president of the
Royal National Agricultural and Indus-
trial Association of Queensland —he
succeeded J. A. Heading in December.
• . •
For the first time in the history of the
Adelaide Stock Exchange, son follows
father (at a distance of some years) as
ADELAIDE STOCK EXCHANGE
president. The late Andrew Young was
president from 1932 to 1948. The son,
Donald, has had a seat on ’Change since
* 9s ?> but joined his father’s stockbroking
business when he was lb now 43, he
Bas s 0“ wl . th hl . m ,earn “® the ro ? es -
Dn the boards of several Companies,
n Y . , of <st Ppter’s Did
„ . non. treasurer OI ot. retei s vjia
Collegiates, a governor of the Pres-
bytenan Girls College, a former State
Commissioner of Toe H, an elder of the
p rP oU v f P H an rhiirrh and nast-cnand-
P g
deacon °' Freemasons.
• •
p rank Ropan whose friends at his
, braille Kogan, t e ■„ , . 1S
Jorne-town ot Maryborough call him
Digger, has pleased all hands (except
those who wanted the senior adminis-
trator appointed from within the service)
, . X? ■ __ e
during his six months probation as Mel-
bourne’s Town Clerk. His appointment
now j s recommended for confirmation.
U. from Marvhnrmifrh vrrv
mu Th from M™y”or“ugh, indeSi-born
there, matriculated there, enlisted there
an( j became town clerk there. His
a b se nces were five years in the Army—he
. „ Mf i „ nr Ld ac llpntpnhni
began as a private and ended as lieutenant
in a radar unit in New Guinea and a
couple of years as maths-master at
Mordialloc High. His appointment met
a mixed press late last year, since he had
only six years’ municipal experience, but
it is now much mollified. He took up
teaching after he graduated and took a
double in degrees, Arts and Commerce.
After all that, he’s just 40.
“B.”: Past Australian offerings that
have managed to make Shaftesbury-
avenue haven’t set the Thames ablaze,
but, with the bill reading “Sir Laurence
Olivier presents,” Ray Lawler’s “Summer
of the 17th Doll” is assured of the best
of starts when it opens in London early
next year. Lawler also has to his credit
a neat little pantomime built round
Jimmy Bancks’s Ginger Meggs. It ran a
successful holiday-season when presented
by the National Theatre a few years ago.
TTie day Meggsy makes the West End
we’ll know the Australian theatre has
really arrived.
“Doynest”: Two Fulbright Scholar-
ships have, by coincidence, gone to two
Victorians by the name of Ward who are
not related. Miss Diana Ward, of
Brighton, graduated last year with a B.A.
degree and Diploma of Social Studies;
she will concentrate in the U.S. on
medical social work. lan Ward, also of
Brighton, is a Master of Commerce ; he
will study economics in California.
• ©
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 76, Francis Harmsworth Way,
who might well be described as “Sydney’s most
gentlemanly accountant.” Chairman of the
Permanent Trustee Co., Ltd., and a director of
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd., he was on the
Prince Alfred Hospital board and was president
of the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants from 1948 to 1950. Senior partner
in Cooper Brothers, Way and Hardie, chartered
accountants, he retired in 1954.
At Campbell Town (Tas.), at 95, Frederick
Burbury, pastoralist and Corriedale-breeder, of
Hilly Park, Parattah. An M.H.A. for a time,
he was one of the members of the first Oatlands
Municipal Council in 1907 —Askin Morrison, of
St. Peters Pass, Oatlands, is now the only
survivor.
In Wellington (N.Z.), at 79, Colonel Herbert
Edward Pilkington, who joined the N.Z.
Artillery in 1896; served in South Africa; left
with N.Z.’s first expeditionary force in the
Kaiser’s show, and was Q.M.G. when he retired
about 25 years ago.
In Brisbane, at 49, E. O. Handy, business-
man and Liberal-party candidate for Mt.
Gravatt in the Queensland State elections in
May. Served with the A.I.F. in the Middle East
and New Guinea.
At 53, in Melbourne, Samuel H. Paterson,
one of the best-known provincial journalists in
Australia, and an official of the A.J.A. (Vic-
toria District). Educated at Caulfield Grammar,
he had more than 30 years’ experience succes-
sively with newspapers at Omeo, Bairnsdale,
Camperdown, Ballarat, and for the last 15 years
with the Geelong “Advertiser,” latterly chief-
of-staff.
In England, at 75, Charles Seeling, of the
original All Black Rugby team of 1905. He
was reputed to be the finest forward in the
world. The team’s triumphant tour of the
United Kingdom half a century ago established
its name, the only defeat being by a Wales team.
In 1910 Seeling went to England to play Rugby
League for Wigan. Right at the end he had
booked passages for himself and his wife to
New Zealand to see the Springboks play, and
then to settle in Wanganui.
In Sydney, suddenly, Sergeant Richard
Brownette, police prosecutor. A well-known
figure in the courts for several years, he had
also represented N.S.W. in inter-State debating
competitions. His son, Reginald Francis
Brownette, became a solicitor three weeks ago.
In Brisbane, at 79, Daniel E. Joyce, managing-
director from 1925 of Helidon Spa Water Co.
Pty., Ltd. He was president of Queensland
Rowing Association.
In London, at 73, Dr. Alfred Hope Gosse,
T.D., M.D., F.R.C.P., distinguished cardiologist.
Born in South Australia, he went to school at
St. Peter’s, Adelaide, went on to Cambridge,
and finished his medical course at St. Mary’s.
Served in Mesopotamia in World War I, at
Basra, and later at Beit Naama, where, as
C.O. of the Officers’ Hospital, he did excellent
work. Back in England in 1919, he became
physician to outpatients at St. Mary’s,
specialised in diseases of the chest, and later
joined the honorary staff of Brompton Hospital
and Midhurst Sanatorium.


FACE-VALUE


ABORIGINALITIES
VS7HEN W.A.’s Land Settlement Board
’ ’ stops ploughing this year it should
have put up a world-record for the big-
gest area of land ploughed in one place
by one authority—l4o,ooo acres, in the
Gairdner project, halfway between
Albany and Hopetoun. That’s just
another record to the big State, which
already claims the longest fence in the
world (the 1100-mile No. 1 rabbitproof
fence across the State from the south coast
to the Eighty-mile Beach), the biggest
paddock in the world (fenced by the ocean
on the west and north, the No. 1 rabbit-
fence on the. east and the No. 3 fence on
the south), and the biggest area under one
roof (Wicherina dam, Geraldton’s water-
supply, with a capacity of 105,000,000
gallons; the roof-area is roughly 18
acres). There might also be a claim for
the longest furrow in the world. On con-
tract to W.A. Railways I once ploughed
firebreaks alongside the line from Merre-
din through Nungarin and Wyalkatchem
to Goomalling, and along a spur-line
to Bullfinch, then back on the other side
of the line to Merredin. Total distance
was well over 600 miles, with not too
many breaks. There must have been
stretches where the furrow remained
"Since they struck it rich he attends to the cuisine.”
unbroken for the best part of 100 miles,
KeJjns -
* * * *
,
hour Threes”: The color-sense of
birds is a probable explanation for the
loss of avian company I have noticed
when driving a dielsel-locomotive. Birds
are friendly travelling visitors, and will
fly alongside a steam-train, sometimes
only a few feet from the cab-window. On
a 200-mile trip you may often be accom-
panied by, in relays, most varieties of
local bird-life, and even the water-birds
rarely disperse from a swamp at the sight
of a steam-train. It could be the bright,
unfamiliar coloring of diesels that make
birds wary; loco-blokes, who like their
company, are hoping that reassurance will
come as the birds get used to the new
hues.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: We have the politest pig.
Gave him a helping of old-stock tinned-
cherries. He quietly first-coursed the
sweet syrup, then ate the cherries one-
by-one, modestly spitting out each seed
to make a neat little pile!
* W * #
“Half-Dirty”: Bush telephone-exten-
sions seem to be able to do their job
when the odds look heavy against them.
I’ve seen ’em fixed to trees so far apart
that it was difficult to sight the lower
portion of the span-wire for grass and
debris. In others the top wire of a fence
worked as a connecting-link, with beer-
bottle necks wedged in post-holes for
insulators. All in all, it seems that if
point-A has a connection to point-B, and
the telephone works, then such refine-
ments as tie-spreaders, porcelain insula-
tors and V-braces are only so much
superficial nonsense.
* * * *
“Waldo”: We had got a lift in a
utility that was going to Menindie, in the
far-west of N.S.W. As a big kangaroo
hopped across the road ahead of us the
driver said: “You got to look out for
them. A car hit one along here the other
night. The ’roo was layin’ in the middle
of the road and jumped up right in front
of the headlights. Busted the radiator
back on to the fan. The driver of it
didn’t have a clue as to the trouble. A
woman, of course. Huh! ’Nother one
got bogged and tore out the diff. trying
to get out. Got no mechanical sense,
that’s what’s wrong with ’em.” When
we reached Menindie the driver got out,
stretched and said: “Well, I’d better get
going and round-up me husband —he’s
here somewhere.”
,****!
“C.P.G.”: This was a case when
delivery was really c.o.d. Chap fishing in
the Loddon River (Vic.) hooked a cod ;
what he thought to be a lump of weed
attached to the dorsal-fin turned out to
be a wallet containing £8 and some
papers showing the owner’s name. The
wallet had dropped in the river a fort-
night earlier.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Came across a
ghost-fungus the other night, and for a
moment it darned near scared me. A
toadstool, and the fruiting body of the
fungus Pleurotus lampas, it’s rare in my
neck of the woods now, but you’ll
occasionally find it at the base of dead
tree-stumps on which, of course, its
mycelium is living. In daylight you
might pass it without a second glance,
which is a pity, because it’s worth a
closer look. You can’t ascribe a definite
shape to it —some bodies are umbrella-
shaped, some turn up at the edges to look
like lilies, and others, the larger ones,
resemble ragged soup-plates. On top
it’s fawn at the edges, merging to dark-
brown at the centre, the whole getting
darker as the body ages; underneath it’s
almost white, with deep gills like a mush-
room, but, unlike a mushroom’s, they
taper well down the stem. Even in day-
light it’s striking. At night it’s arresting:
it glows with a cold, ghostly light that
makes a big clump show up at 60-70yds.
The light is the usual type of living lumi-
nescence, produced without heat from
some substance manufactured in the lumi-
nous cells; but it differs from animal-
luminescence in that it’s continuous until
the toadstool has fulfilled its function
of producing spores.
* # * «
“J.P.C.”: Local landmarks often have
unoriginal names ; from travels in Vic-
toria I know of many dubbed One Tree
Hill, Dead Man’s Gully, Baldy Point,
Ferny Creek, etc. But I struck one
original in a rocky mount near Ararat
known as Good Morning, Bill. One of
the many stories is that a lonely boundary-
rider, wishing to relieve the monotony of
greeting only his horse and his dog each
morning, added a prominent object to his
salutations. He was observed raising
his hat to the mount, and from then on
the name stuck.
“Fair Mac”: In the charts printed with
“Captain Cook’s Own Story” (B. 2/5/’56)
I looked for and failed to find Pigeon
Loft Mountain. The peak which bears
this name stands inland from the coast
some 20 miles south of the Shoalhaven
River, and every resident thereabouts
will tell you it was named by Cook. If
so, a gift for nomenclature can be added
to his other accomplishments, for no
name could be more apt. Part of the
Great Dividing Range, Pigeon Loft is
perched on the crest of a ridge and
reaches up much higher than any other
point within miles. A seafaring mate
of mine informs me that skippers on
coastal-craft regard Old Pigeon as one
of the most reliable landmarks along the
coast.
* * * *
C. Rylands: “H.C.B.’s” par. about
the glass-bottles (B. 30/5/’56) was a long-
awaited confirmation of my father’s claim
that my great-grandfather was the chap
who invented the marble stoppers, at his
Barnsley (Yorkshire) factory. Dad used
to tell of his boyhood visits to the glass-
works, but as, according to his story, the
family fortunes disappeared down a coal-
mine in the bust of the ’nineties, and as, in
our times, we never saw any such afflu-
ence as a glassworks might reasonably
produce, I discounted his story. Further,
being a prodigal son who left home in his
early teens and never returned, I never
got around to inquiring into the history of
the almost legendary glassworks. Now
I may be able to convince the missus that
the assorted catches on the fowl-pen gates
are the products of an inherited talent for
invention.
* * # #
“Kerba”: Inverting a beer-mug as a
challenge to the whole bar (B. 27/6/’56)
dates directly from Studebaker, the
pirate. A native of Heligoland, he was
known, by reputation, in a thousand
ports, but not by sight, since no survivors
lived after he had dealt with a ship. A
favorite whim of the gigantic buccaneer
was to sail peacefully into a port, go
ashore to a tavern, and order the biggest
beaker in the place. In one draught he
would empty the vessel, then set it down
on the bar—inverted. That told every-
body present that Studebaker was, or
had been, there. Whether there were
ever any acceptors of the challenge is not
recorded; certainly there were no
winners, since Studebaker ruled the roost
for many years before being brought to
justice. A somewhat fantastic story goes
that when the pirate and his crew were
finally caught and sentenced to decapita-
tion, Studebaker requested a pardon for
any of his men that his body could run
past after being beheaded. Such a thing
being utterly impossible, the request was
granted. The axe fell. Immediately the
headless body struggled up and reeled
past 12 men in the line before the execu-
tioner recovered enough to trip it.
Incidentally, a large beaker is still known
as a “studebaker” in his old haunts.
* * * *
“Nailil”: My attempts at poultry-rais-
ing in the Torres Straits islands convinced
me that even the domestic hen, which is
not remarkable for its mental capacity, is
capable of varying its voice to indicate the
nature of some predator threatening its
brood. A staccato clucking was an invari-
able indication that a hawk was circling
overhead. A slow cackling told me
infallibly that a goanna was raiding the
nest. But the most unusual was a peculiar
sort of twittering which I’ve never heard
from any other hens, and which was
reserved solely to denote the sortie of the
only venomous snake in the Archipelago.
I rated the warning as unique because the
hens would ignore the presence of all
other species of wriggler.
* * * *
“Maitri”: A couple on an N.S.W.
station-property had the luck to employ
a wizard of a Chinese chef, but were
wise enough never to inquire concerning
the contents of the delectable dishes he
served up. Once when they entertained
neighbors at dinner the chef really spread
himself, and they dived into the tasty mess
with enthusiasm. Then the host disin-
terred a bone of curious shape. “Now,
what sort of an animal owned that?” he
asked. As his wife gazed at the find
horror succeeded her curiosity. She
jumped up and tore down the hall
screaming forte and agitato, “Spot, Spot,
Spot!” bent on discovering whether or
not the basis of the concoction was the
fox-terrier pup. It wasn’t.
* * » *
“Noah”: My neighbor, a part-time
fox- and rabbit-hunter, always follows
the same ritual after a day in the bush.
The time between after-tea and bedtime
smokes is fully occupied in carefully
cleaning his rifle and routine attention
to digging-out gear. Whetting a keen
edge to his skinning-knife is a serious
business. But all this isn’t mere cere-
mony ; it is a reflection of the fact that
the acquisition of each hunting-implement
was, due to the economic times when they
were bought, a memorable event —an
appreciation of values that could well be
noted by today’s youth, v
THE BOREHOLE
A fretted blue facet on Waratah Hill,
Damp, dank and dark in its maidenhair frill;
With cowslips and daisies and bluebells near by,
The crop of the Borehole looks out to the sky.
Gold of the Turon, Broken Hill’s silver-lead,
The copper of Cobar, the Iron Knob red,
Gemstones and tin and uranium ore,
Glow with romance from the earth’s treasure
store —
The crop of the Borehole, a much ravaged
troll,
Or drab Cinderella with dirty rag-doll,
Crouches unnoticed, unminstrelled, forlorn,
In this brush-bowered glen ’neath the daisies
new-born.
Black diamonds, black diamonds, the earth’s
richest dower,
Prime-mover of progress, the fountain of power,
Black besom, dark drudge of a steam-driven
world,
Reach out for your fame with your banners
unfurled.
Stand forth with your slogan writ bright on your
scroll,
The covenant carried where’er colliers roll,
The guarantee golden betwixt Pole and Pole:
World witness, world warranty —“Best Bore-
hole Coal.”
A toast to the Borehole, with high ringing
cheers,
The humble Old Faithful these hundred long
years
Has steam-fed the life of a land young and
strong,
Well earning, deserving this laurel of song.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.


t DROPPED a quid easily in a bet while
A passing through the Centre. A ’Ghan,
newly arrived with his camel-team, was
leading one of the oonts to water, and
an acquaintance at the pub brought up
the question of its drinking-capacity. I
hazarded a guess of 15 gallons. Bill
said he’d bet an even quid he’d double
that quantity. I took a quick screw at
the hump and took him on. The animal
with the snooty expression gave the best
imitation of a suction-pump I’d seen. It
polished-off threequarters of a full 44-
gallon drum, lifted its melon up, shot me
a supercilious look, then knocked-off the
rest. We retired to the pub then to
liquidate the debt and emulate the oont.
—“Aeolus.”
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: A duck may not be
handicapped in its pedestrian prowess by
web-feet, but otters apparently are. More
than once in Borneo was I surprised by
the ease with which my decrepit pariah
would catch any otter that came out of
the river, tempted by the chooks, by day,
out on the loose. Incidentally, log-
raftsmen, when “making-up” on night
tides, seemed casual about crocodiles,
but would come out of the water if the
otters were about.
* * * *
“Noah”: Among the occupational
terms that have no utility in everyday
language is one peculiar to goldmining.
Removing the water from a flooded shaft
is known as “unwatering.” In closely-
allied occupations the terms “draining”
or “pumping” adequately express the
same technical meaning, and one wonders
if the obscure grammatical bona fides of
“unwatering” should not be disputed.
The word isn’t confined to miners’
vocabulary; it’s included in the glossary
of a Government mining department’s
brochure.
* * * *
“Iherd”: A farmer-neighbor found his
oow down with milk-fever, With his only
safety-razor he shaved a spot to make
the curative injection, then placed the
razor on a fence-post. While he was
busy over the cow a crow swooped and
suavelled the razor. Well, a golf-ball
does resemble an egg, but what could the
sable fowl have mistaken a Gillette for?
„ , * »
“Woorarra”: The attitude of wild birds
to caged ones is worth considering for
the strange light it throws on avian
psychology. Butcher-birds, kookas and
currawongs often destroy, or at least
savagely attack, caged birds of a kind they
would never molest if met in the wild.
Magpies—not properly predators—some-
times kill escapees of their own species
that seek to join the flock. The four
fowl mentioned are noted for toughness,
but I have seen a tame galah strutting in
his owner’s garden, roughly handled by
a number of normally mild birds, and
have collected a lot of evidence of a
similar nature which, if not conclusive,
seems significant. There are exceptions,
notably finches, which accept into their
flocks and breed freely with escaped
prisoners. Beyond that, many cases are
on record of wild birds feeding caged
youngsters, sometimes without regard to
species. A curious feature about the
relationship between free and fettered
fowl is that any hostility displayed is
usually one-sided. The prisoner, for
his part, mostly exhibits a pathetic eager-
ness to fraternise with his wild brethren.
# * * *
“Sack”: Beehives in walls (B.
4/7/’56)? The oldest-established in
Australia was probably the one in the
historical old Mint building, in Sydney s
Macquarie-street. It had, in fact, been
there so long that inestimable numbers
of tiny feet had worn a sizeable hole in
a mortar-joint which formed an entrance
to those internal voids that existed in
most of the old stone buildings (despite
the popular faith in the superior work-
manship of “the good old days”).
* * * *
“Heresone”: Ancient Romans called
the spirits of the dead, among other
things, lemures. Murray Islanders,,
according to lon Idriess in his Drums of
Mer, called them lamars. I am not
suggesting that a Roman galley strayed
off-course and was wrecked on Mer, but
the Spaniards and Portuguese were
around those parts in the 16th, 17th and
18th centuries, and both those tongues are
derived from Latin.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A weighty and fearsome-
looking squid—total length, 13ft. and
estimated to measure 30ft. to the tip of its
feelers before, apparently, a sperm-whale
had mauled it, and with an estimated full
weight of nearly 3cwt. —came ashore at
Makara Beach (N.Z.), and the Welling-
ton Dominion Museum is preserving
it. R. K. Dell, the Museum concholo-
gist, says it is the only one scientists
have had an opportunity of examining in
70 years,
* * * *
“Villefair”: The site of our job was
behind a series of tennis-courts fenced
with chain-wire, and I was stooping over
my work when something whizzing like
a shell knocked my hat off and continued
on its way. A golf-ball. I retrieved the
pill and tried it for size in the diamond-
shaped mesh of the chain-wire. At the
biggest space the clearance was less than
three-eighths of an inch. The ball had
come through the side-fence, crossed
the comer, then shot through the back-
fence —and cleared both meshes cleanly!
Wonder just what odds there would be
against a bloke doing that if he were
trying to!
* * * *
„ x/r , ...
“Fuzzy Wuzzy : Much rejoicing was
caused by the announcement of pay-
increases ranging up to 30 per cent, tor
the native members of the Australian
Army’s Pacific Island Regiment. Third-
year sgts. are getting up to £l5 a month
more, privates from 695. to £5 a month,
A detachment from the regiment was
highly praised recently for its work while
manning Nutt Point, Manus Island, in
a camp previously occupied by the
R.A.A.F. It showed high efficiency in a
variety of ways.
“Loug”: In the bush-town surgery’s
waiting-room the sweet young thing told
me: “I’ve got an atomic nerve. Keeps
running up and down my arm. I m sure
Doctor can do something.” Her tnend
said: “My toenails are growing too
fast.” The medico was young, single
and competent; I’m still curious as to
how he dealt with these two unusual
complaints!
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”: Long past the first
flush of youth, the wheat-and-sheep
cocky became engaged to a girl from
another State. Naturally the family were
curious to know all about her, but he was
noncommittal. Asked was she good-
looking, he replied “F.a.q.” Pressed
closer for such details as whether she
was tall or little, he scrubbed the inquisi-
tion with, “Aw, I reckon she d stand a
coupler good droughts.”
PORTRAIT OF THE GANGER
Roarmg his hoarse obscenities
Above abashed antagonists
he hammers home his emphasis
With gnarled unmanicured fists.
Mario and Spanish Dick,
Angus, Boris, old O’Neill
Grin shamefaced discomfiture n
(Swinging their spades in arcs of steel).
Despite his sly salacious tongue
They bear him with a wry affection;
Pointing with pride his ugliness
The squidlike nose, eyes and complexion.
But Joe the Greek disclaims him as
A most pernicious scandal-spreader;
Trouble-brewer, family-wrecker,
Five-ace man and double-header.
From bluchers up to wideawake,
Past dungarees and Jacky Howe,
Flaring with anger, Blue replies,
“I oughter dong the floggin’ cow!
While Tango laughs to see such tun,
Such dignity outraged and pure;
joe the Greek has slid away
Eel-like in discomfiture.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.
Garun, the Green-backed Turtle
(Related by Mungi of the Birrikilli tribe )
IN the country Bammanoo, at Elcho
Island, a father and his son, Kananika
and Oolorumbo, made a canoe.
“What is this canoe?” asked the son.
“Torpinta,” said his father.
The two men took a rope and turtle-
spear. They paddled the canoe out into
the saltwater, looking for turtles. The
two men saw the tortoise-shell turtle,
with long neck and sharp nose, called
Gooartjee. They paddled the canoe up
to him and the son stood up in the canoe
and speared Gooartjee.
“That’s right, my son,” said the father.
“You have killed him for you and me
because I am very hungry.”
Now, the white-breasted sea-eagle man
Tjootpalla saw the two men kill the
turtle. “It is better that I take that
turtle,” he said.
Tjootpalla changed into an eagle and
swooped down on to the canoe. He
caught hold of the turtle in his hands
and flew up and away with it. As he
flew away he cried out, “This turtle
belongs to me!”
“He belongs to us!” Oolorumbo
shouted back.
The two men in the canoe followed-up
the eagle. “Let Tjootpalla take the turtle
and leave it on the shore. We two will
follow him,” the father said.
The sea-eagle man flew to the shore
with the turtle and sat down on the sand
to eat it. The two men drove the canoe
up on to the beach and ran up with the
paddles in their hands. Kananika the
father called out, “Hey, Tjootpalla, clear
out. This turtle belongs to my son and
me.” He ran up and hit Tjootpalla hard
with the paddle. “Go! Look out for
turtle yourself,” he cried.
Tjootpalla the sea-eagle man was badly
hurt from the paddle. He flew away
and landed on a big rock near the salt-
water. “Ah,” he said, “I die here. This
my body I leave here. My spirit goes to
another country.”
The' two men looked after Tjootpalla
as he flew away from the turtle. They
saw him land on the big rock near the
saltwater. “Hah,” they said, “there he
has stopped.”
The father and the son cut-up the
turtle on the sand. The shell, the bone
and the skin they left on the shore.
Gooartjee the turtle spoke: “All right,
I leave my bones and my shell here. My
spirit goes back to live in the saltwater.
Kananika the father said to his son,
“Let us go out and look for something
else now.”
The two men set off in the canoe.
They paddled over the saltwater and
they paddled along the shore, looking
out with the turtle-spear ready.
Two turtles came out of the jungle in
the country Kurrkadingurra. They came
out on to the beach and began to lay
their eggs in the sand. The two men saw
the turtles on the beach. They drove
the canoe up on the shore and stepped
out. They were cramped and cold as
they walked, stiff-legged, up the beach.
Kananika had a dilly-bag on his back
hanging from a string round his fore-
head. The green-backed turtle with the
big head, called Garun, was laying eggs.
Kananika called out to his son, “Go on,
kill her.”
This Garun had a blind eye. Tne
son, Oolorumbo, got a big stone. He
hit Garun on the head with the stone
and killed her.
“Get a fire going,” Kananika said to
his son. “I will cut this turtle up.” The
two men made a fire on the beach and
cut-up Garun the turtle. They took out
the guts and the liver. They cooked the
turtle on the fire and ate her.
This blind-eyed Garun spoke: “You
two men have killed my body. But my
spirit you cannot kill. Igo now to stay
in the saltwater at my country Gooraya.”
Now, when these two men had eaten
Garun the turtle, the father spoke again:
“Come on, let us go and look round for
more turtle.”
Father and son pushed the canoe into
the saltwater and paddled away. Along
the shore they paddled, past the man-
groves, the rocks and the beaches, with
the rope and the turtle-spear laid by and
ready.
Now the spirit of Garun got up and
looked out from the shore. She saw
those two men coming in the canoe.
“Ah,” she said, “they are here again. I
will make a fire. Might be those two
men would try and kill my spirit.”
As the two men paddled up, the spirit
of Garun made a big fire. The canoe
came closer. The spirit of Garun got up
and looked. “Ah,” she said, “those two
men are coming to kill my spirit.”
Then the two men in the canoe saw a
big sea coming up behind them. It was
rearing up and curling over behind them.
The two men ran the canoe up on to the
sand. As they did so the spirit of Garun
took a big firestick and came down on
the canoe. That canoe went up in one
huge blaze and roar.
“Ah,” the two men cried, “might be
we die, and might be we live!”
But with a noise like thunder boom-
ing and crashing the sea came up and
over the two men. It swallowed them
and sent them down and down. Those
two men were finished.
There on the beach the spirit of Garun
the turtle spoke: “Look, Kananika, and
you, Oolorumbo, you killed my body
at that country Kurrkadingurra. My
body stayed on that shore. You came
here. You came here to kill my spirit.
My spirit has killed you now.”
ROLAND ROBINSON.


WORLDS FASTEST JET!
LOCKHEED
r>
>1
*
n
in
c
u
V
m
jo
m
m
m
The F-104 STARFICHTER
Is the most advanced air-
plane of its type ever devel-
oped. Dimensions: height 13 feet,
6 inches; length 54 feet, 9 inches
Wings: knife-sharp, and only 7 1 * feet,
from fuselage to wing-tip. Engine: Gen-
eral Electric J 79, which develops more
thrust per pound of engine weight than any
other tuibojet of comparable size. Electronics
system: new «plug in* type, to permit quick
changes and replacement of components. Pilot’s
seat: downward firing ejection type, the first in a
production jet fighter. High, T-shaped ♦floating* tail;
twice as effective in controllability as conventional tail
designs. Armament and top speed: both are military secrets,
but the Lockheed F-104 can overtake and destroy any plane
of any size— known today.
The STARFICHTER’S dart-like configuration, perfected by extensive
wind-tunnel tests, permits the F-104 to flash through the sonic-barrier,
routinely, without a tremor. And even at supersonic speeds the
STARFICHTER has unmatched ease and decisiveness of control - because
never before have so many advanced design and engineering features been
so superbly combined in one aircraft
Like all Lockheed-built planes, the F-104 has inherent «design flexibility* that
makes it readily adaptable to a variety of military requirements —at a substantially
lower cost to the purchaser.
Lockheed s leadership in the design and production of military airplanes, of nine widely
different types, is again demonstrated by the F-104 STARFIGHTER.
“MISSILE WITH
A MAN IN IT
LOCKHEED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION, BURBANK. CALIFORN IA, U. S. A.
Look to Lockheed for JET Leadership, Too.
' ' -• ’ '• V’ '• , - ■ •
' • ‘
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRGB&
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3r), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Between
Ourselves
-—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SIXPENCE ONLY
each week
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Up 20s. in Nine Months
\&7HEN, late in 1955, afraid
that he would soon have
to face the triennial polls,
Premier J. J. Cahill, as
election - bait, unpegged the
basic wage in N.S.W., he knew
—or should have known—that
the buying-power of wages,
based on the C-series index, was
still 20 p.c. higher than it had
been when war broke out in
1939.
There are arguments about
the strict relevancy of the C-
series index to present-day living-
costs ; but it is nevertheless the
index which Mr. Cahill accepts
in fixing wages in his own State,
and it is the most reliable to be
had. So, accepting it, we had
the position that towards the end
of 1955, allowing for all infla-
tionary developments, the basic
wage then bought 20 p.c. more
than it did in 1939.
Furthermore, fewer people are
on the basic wage than there
were in 1939. Most unions since
then have managed to get
awards for margins for “skill.”
As a result most unionists were
on a far better wicket than in
1939, and were in 1955 assured
of full employment if they were
prepared to work diligently.
In view of the inadequacy of
output per man per hour in
Australia ever since the war, and
in view of the previous wage-
spiral that had almost wrecked
the Australian economy, Premier
Cahill’s action was one of the
most wanton acts of economic
violence ever committed against
Australia. If he cares a jot about
the finances of his decrepit and
demoralised railways he must
know that wages are far too high
in relation to the services
rendered by the staff, and that
the railways are not only virtu-
ally bankrupt, but also becoming
increasingly inefficient and
dangerous.
But economic facts didn’t
worry Premier Cahill. So the
basic wage was unpegged, and
it followed the pressure of
margins-awards, the 40-hour
award and the long-service leave
award in adding to the infla-
tionary flames in N.S.W.
As a result, the basic wage in
N.S.W., as from the first payday
in August, goes to £l3 3s. a week.
That is exactly a pound a week
higher than it was in September,
1955. The good work of the
“stabilisation” period is rapidly
being undone, and to those who
know the “form” of Premier
Cahill and those who are behind
him—of both colors —a reckless
inflationary jag is in prospect.
The rise in all fares
charged by N.S.W. Govern-
ment transport-services since
July 1 will in itself provoke a
further steep rise in the next
quarterly cost-of-living index,
and thus the spiral threatens to
get speedily out of hand.
Minster, Ltd.
C'PECULATION over the
> nature of the bonus-issue to
, be made by Minster, Ltd., has
been set at rest: the bonus is to
be three for four, calling for
874,000 10s. ords., and it will
lift paid capital from £582,488 to
around £920,000.
The move precedes the
duplication of the plant, which
should be in full effect in three or
four months. On its single plant-
unit the co. made a net profit of
£192,134 (33 p.c. on present
capital) for the year to June 30
and paid the usual 15 p.c. div.
Present earnings would more
than cover 15 p.c. on the bonus-
increased capital, but profits
should soon have the help of the
doubled plant-capacity. No
future div.-policy has been
announced.
The co. is strategically situated
in Dandenong (Vic.), and demand
for its rubber-based carpet is well
in advance of present produc-
tion, in spite of the setback in
the motor-car industry.
Minster 10s. shares rose to 38s.
just prior to announcement of
the bonus-issue terms, but have
since dropped back to 355.
Kuru (Papua) Gas
[From h. Owen]
SECOND only in importance
to the striking of gas in Kuru
No. 1 well (B. 15/2/’56) early in
January of this year is the news
that the bore —after blowing
wild for six months, in spite of
the efforts of one of the best-
qualified oilwell-tamers in the
world —has now been conquered.
In May last the flow of gas
was successfully controlled by a
directionally-drilled relief-hole,
“ Quick, Harry, add a naught on to this —here comes
a likely sucker."
Kuru No. la, and, early in June,
the gas-flow was “killed” by seal-
ing No.l well with cement. The
latest report from Papua
announces that Kuru No. 2 well
was spudded-in on June 23 and
had reached the depth of 566 ft.
by the end of the month. In
addition, the top string of
18fin. casing has been landed
and cemented at 563 ft.
The well is thus in good con-
dition for reaching, shortly, the
1000 ft. gas-horizon. This time,
however, all precautionary
measures to prevent another
blowout can be taken, and the
equipment will incorporate
adequate blowout-preventers, by
means of which the gas—even
when under enormous pressure
—can be controlled as soon as
the reservoir is pierced. It will
enable, also, the securing of
accurate data with reference to
bottom-hole pressures and gas-
flows under various conditions,
thus allowing a very fair idea to
be formed of the extent and
nature of the Kuru reservoir.
The availability of unadulter-
ated samples of gas will allow
complete physical and chemical
analyses, and will add vastly to
the accuracy of the forecasting
of the potentialities of the Kuru
structure.
In these circumstances, it isn’t
surprising that a sharp rise has
occurred in the price of Oil
Search shares, under buying-
pressure from London. Whether
the present price of the shares is
justified—particularly in view of
the enormous capital-valuation
entailed —is a question more for
the investor than for the oil-
geologist, but the buyer of shares
should at least realise that the
information to be expected from
Kuru will not materially affect
oil-prospects much beyond the
limits of that structure.
To the east, the deep Kariava
well has proved the barrenness of
the geological column in that
direction. To the south-east, the
Purari-Vailala fault-zone /which,
owing to the existence of surface
oil and gas-seeps was, as early
as 1912, rather foolishly named
the “Vailala Oilfield”) forms a
geological barrier between the
Western Papua Basin, of which
the Kuru structure is a part, and
the Aure Trough to the east. This
is confirmed by the fact that no
well drilled to date within the
limits of the Aure Trough has
shown any sign of commercial
production.
In the event of the Kuru struc-
ture proving to be a commercial
producer, a vast potential oil-
field is opened up to the west.
For this reason, the results not
only from Kuru 2, but from
Barikewa —which is expected to
spud-in mid-August—and later
Morehead will be awaited with
very keen interest.
That the operating cos. are
optimistic seems obvious from
the announcement that drilling
operations are being speeded-up
by bringing in, early in 1957,
three Sikorsky 58 helicopters,
each capable of lifting slightly
more than 40001 b., for the pur-
pose of transporting all drilling
and service equipment, thus
eliminating the waste of time
involved in roadbuilding in
what includes some of the most
difficult terrain in the world.
New England Antimony
A FTER paying £51,750 (£35,500
of it in cash) to the vendors
of the property (near Guyra,
N.S.W.), and raising £123,250
from the public, New England
Antimony Mines, N.L. (formed
in Melbourne in November,
1953), quickly spent its cash
resources on plant and develop-
ment, and found it necessary to
raise £25,000 on mortgage from
Commonwealth Mining Invest-
ments (Aust.), Ltd.
In the year to March 31, the
co. struck dry weather that shut
the plant down for 55 days from
late in November. Development
was given precedence over min-
ing, and grade of milling-ore was
lower than estimates because of
dilution with dump material and
developmental ore. Treatment of
3424 tons produced 447 tons of
concentrates, and 62 tons of prill-
ore was recovered.
Sales of concentrates and prill-
ore (478 tons) brought in
£38,520, and concentrates on
hand (30 tons) were valued at
£2150 at balance-day. Expenses
were £54,035, and the year’s loss
£13,365.
Plant-capacity, the board says,
is well up to prospectus
estimates, and future output
“should result in a reasonable
margin of profit.” Ore reserves
are not accurately known, but
ore in sight should keep the mill
going until the middle of next
year. Prospecting is hoped to
(Continued on next page)


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy
O'SUIJJVA]V
vixm. ...,
S IS SR'S.
Trade
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yor#
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
Missing Friend
COOK, Frederick G., deceased, late of 220
West Princes Street, Glasgow.—WlLL
any person who knows the present where-
abouts of GORDON, RODGER and
NORMAN (now believed to be in Aus-
tralia), sons of CRAWFORD COOK, who
died in 1921, and MRS. ELIZABETH
COOK, please communicate with MILLER
THOMPSON HENDERSON & CO., 190
St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
A father’s advice
~, Os cjfti&b tUo/s defend# the a/ay
ijMs handht uumey. \9
£TL&ur thwd ata/didv
have ■y6an/&uvC chigoe,
acayunt f (Xjh&zt feant tdisoafetj a*uh,
Csrnv&i&MX/ hy — and/
h&tave/Tnfr, feiyefe {y chzynt ’jyiaAec t/uu
fahaidt&us (Fhe’o income/ t&X AjtzaiHs
'ituic/v-taei£si/-- thaw 4s CL'Ce/vttiMsOfflUrtMds
hnuhojp I4v hiawnef a chwjMt/‘i£e&*wit. hhut )
pjj- foUMe,' lhfed 'ijOta jrut&ieh/Unth> A, htiv&n-
{&fyuthh&. hhanh TftajuLj&v&ntt' ac
CfV fe ) And -ysw7wd> QeSfvici*
J'T&u/f
6U /tn&ur t !) fetve,hcafecC udtfe this
oh- htlurfexithiMhah-j arud
h AjVC&flvniituh' 'tj&us ~tb dc -hthatedue. "hhwwi
asstatr /r*s sfchis <2eu^4 / >vi/ Z'f&tt' c&tts h^^h,
tOe h(/h&o^
Your enquiries about a cheque account will be
welcome at any branch of the
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and largest trading bank in Australia
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
V5616C
AMPOL PETROLEUM LIMITED
£1,500,000
ISSUE OF REBISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
INTEREST RATE
PARTICIPATING
12 years, t 5 years, 20 years at the option of the applicant.
PUBLIC SUBSCRIPTION LISTS OPEN THURSDAY, 26th JULY, 1956
PROSPECTUS available from
Bank of New South Wales—any branch in Australia.
Members of recognised stock exchanges throughout Australia.
BROKERS FOR THE ISSUE
N.S.W.: A. D. MEARES & BISHOP, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.
VIC.: J, B. WERE & SON, “Capel Court,” 375 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l.
S.A.: GAVIN F. GARDNER & CO., 20 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
OLD.: i. B, & FRANK CHARLTON, 406 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
W.A.: J. B. WERE & SON, Prudential Building, 189
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
TAS.: SMITHIES & LANGFORD, 140 Collins Street, Hobart.
UNDERWRITERS:
J. B. WERE & SON
This is not o prospectus and does not constitute an invitation to subscribe for the notes mentioned herein
disclose additional supplies of
ore.
Plant, buildings, etc., are in the
books at £78,243, mine property
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
MAORILAND is fortunate in
that steeply rising farm-
production has coincided with
falling export-prices in recent
months.
Had it not been for the rise
in the volume of exports the
effect of declining prices on over-
seas reserves, already run-down
by an excessively high rate of
importing, would have been
disastrous. As it is, the Govern-
ment has been given a breathing-
space to apply disinflationary
measures designed to bring
spending down to a level more in
line with income.
The value of exports in the
calendar-year 1955 reached a
record £258.9 million, £14.4
million more than in the previ-
ous year and even £lO.B million
more than in the 1951 wool-
boom year.
The trend has continued since,
in spite of falling prices. In the
first five months of the current
year exports brought in £149
million, against £l2O million in
the corresponding period of
1955.
Aerial Top-dressing
The most important factor in
boosting farm-production has
undoubtedly been the rapidly
increasing adoption of aerial
top-dressing.
In the year to March, 1950,
5000 tons of superphosphate
were applied by air to 50,000
acres; in the year to March,
1956, 350,000 tons were applied
to 3,400,000 acres. In the same
period agricultural chemicals
applied by air increased from
17,000 to 278,000 gallons. In
the last year alone the weight of
fertiliser spread by air increased
by 45 per cent, and the area
treated by 38 per cent.
For aerial top-dressing to be
maintained on the present scale
a continuation of high prices for
meat and wool is probably
necessary. On the other hand,
increased productivity has
already put many farmers on
poorer country in a stronger
financial position.
It is claimed that much hill
country, which in the past has
carried only one sheep to the
acre, may in future be able to
carry about three.
Prices and Money
So far as the immediate
economic future is concerned, it
should be recognised that the
full effect of declining prices
hasn’t yet been reflected in
receipts through the banking
system.
Take wool, for instance. In
the 12 months to the end of May
export receipts were £2.4 million
up at £95.5 million. But total
wool-sales for the season ended
June 30 were £5 million down at
£B9 million. This fall will show
up in receipts through the bank-
ing system later in the year.
Meat-export receipts for the
calendar-year 1956 will probably
be appreciably above the 1955
total of £59 million. In the 12
months to the end of May they
were £25 million up at £72
million, and in the first five
months of the current year they
were £5.9 million, or 21.8 per
cent., up at £32.8 million.
The continuing high level of
meat-export income is attributed
to the substantial carryover of
meat from the 1954-55 year and
to the sustained increase in pro-
duction in the present season.
Total export meat-production
in the nine months to the end of
May was 362,821 tons, 5 p.c.
greater than the record of
345,479 tons established in the
same period last year. "A notable
feature was the increased output
of chilled beef, nearly 25 p.c. up
at 16,847 tons. Lamb-production
was 1.6 p.c. up on a tonnage
basis.
Prices, however, have declined
substantially all round. At late-
June current prices, compared
with a year before, were down
approximately as follows: Beef,
12 p.c.; lamb, 4 p.c. to 7 p.c.,
according to weight of carcass ;
ewe mutton, 15 p.c. In the case
of beef there had been a much
heavier fall earlier, with a sharp
recovery in June.
The reason for the price-
decline lies in heavily increased
supplies on the market from
British home farms, from
Argentina and from New
Zealand.
Dairy Produce
Butter-production for the first
10 months of the current season
to the end of May reached a
record 197,321 tons, 6.9 p.c.
more that! in the corresponding
10 months of the previous year.
Price has fluctuated widely.
From an all-time peak of 4025.
per cwt. in December it fell to
2905. at the end of April, but
late in June had recovered to
3355. The April-June price in
1955 was 3425.
“The Times” recently com-
mented that the price of 2905.
looked a good deal nearer the
enduring value than the present
3355. If New Zealand producers
wished to hold their position in
the United Kingdom market
they would have to adapt them-
selves to a lower price, it said.
In fact, the outlook for butter
prices doesn’t look encouraging.
Butter supplies from all sources
in Britain in the calendar-year
1956 are likely to be consider-
ably more than the 335,000 tons
placed on the market in 1955. If
increased sales have to be made
at the expense of margarine,
prices will be depressed.
Cheese-production for the 10
months to the end of May was 7
p.c. down at 94,707 tons, com-
pared with the same period of
the previous year. Price has been
consistently strong, and late in
June stood at 2765. per cwt.,
against 1755. a year before.
Prospects are good because of
limited supplies. Milk-powder
and casein markets are also in
good shape.
The British Market
Maoriland meat and butter
producers are showing increas-
ing concern about the protection
of their all-important British
markets, which last year took
£196.6 million of the Dominion’s
total exports of £259 million.
Since 1947 British farmers
have had guaranteed prices and
guaranteed markets for their
products. As a result, produc-
tion has increased 55 p.c. since
the years immediately before the
last war.
If present policies are con-
tinued, United Kingdom home
production will absorb an ever-
increasing share of the market
for meat, leaving less available
for imported meats.
Now, with Argentina stepping-
up supplies of cheap meat to
Britain, New Zealand’s market
is in grave danger of being
squeezed, in spite of the privilege
of “free entry.”
New Zealand butter has a
margin of preference over
foreign butter of 15s. per cwt. on
the British market. In 1932,
when the Ottawa agreement was
signed, foreign butter was land-
ing in Britain at 100 s. per cwt.,
and the N.Z. preference repre-
sented a protective tariff on an
ad valorem basis of 15 p.c. With
rising price-levels over the last
20 years, the protection has, in
effect, been reduced to 3 p.c. or
4 p.c.
On the other hand, U.K. goods
imported into New Zealand in
general enjoy a margin of prefer-
ence over foreign imports of 20
p.c. or more.
To sum-up: Maoriland will
need to export an increasing
amount in future years to pro-
vide imports for a rapidly
expanding population. The
United Kingdom will remain
the Dominion’s main market in
the foreseeable future. Increasing
supplies from British home
farms, from N.Z. itself and from
competing producers will tend
both to limit the size of the avail-
able market and to depress
prices. Any material rise in
British unemployment will
intensify these effects. No effort
should be spared to develop new
outlets now. And, above all,
internal costs must be held in
check if the Dominion is to sell
successfully in a more competi-
tive era.
and development at £67,991,
debtors, stocks and stores at
£6951, and preliminary exes, at
£4560.
Paid capital figures at £139,500,
less p. and 1. debit of £13,365.
The C.M.I. mortgage is £25,000
and sundry creditors £6610.
Another £2500 may be bor-
rowed, under present arrange-
ments, from C.M.I.
The future of the show as a
mining investment depends very
much on what development
reveals over the next 12 months.
The ss. shares are offered at 3s.
on ’Change, buyers bidding
2s. 6d.


Have
you made your WILL?
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY ITO.
Incorporated in Victono in 1878
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
k Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY. •
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,657.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H.
M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming
Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M. Campbell,
David Wilson M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan ©. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Prestige, Ltd.
A POORER performance by the New
Zealand subsidiary was „ the main
reason for the small downturn in the
Prestige group’s net profit last year. As
in Australia, some manufacturers in the
neighboring Dominion have been subject
to severe competition from abroad, fol-
lowing the relaxing, some time ago, of
restriction on imports. Now, as in Aus-
tralia, trouble in balancing overseas-
trade payments has lately led the N.Z.
Government to further tighten-up on
import-licensing, which, in its case,
Prestige expects to result in an improved
turn of business as the current year
progresses.
In Australia, Prestige maintained its
share of the local hosiery market, and so
far this term turnover is reported to be
at the “same satisfactory” level. Pros-
pects for the rest of the group appear
reasonably bright. New summer-season
lingerie is said to have been well received
by the trade, and fabric sales, which
showed an improvement in 1955-56, are
expected to pick-up further this term
as imported materials become scarcer.
After eliminating the interests of
minority shareholders in the subsidiary
cos. and setting aside £138,063 (£132,484
in 1955) for depreciation and £106,386
(£119,602) for taxation, consolidated net
profit in 1956 was £182,599:
Prestigb and Subsidiaries.*
t Dividends To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ p.c. £ £ £
1952.. 65,062 8& 5 5 p.c. = 46,762 813,512
Share premiums, £7,588 .. .. 821,100
Net addition reserves, £12,578 .. 833,678
Profit.
1953.. 140.620 8& 5 7sp.c. = 70,892 69,728 903,406
Net addition reserves, £6149 .. 908,555
1954.. 209 8 & 6 7$ p.c.= 70,892 92,317 1,000,872
Tax overprovided, £2513 .. ..1,003,385
Net reduction reserves, £2918 .. 1,000,467
1955.. 185,499 8&5 9 p.c.= 81,422 104,077 1,104,544
Loss sale assets, £7446 .. .. 1,097,098
Tax overprovided, £3229 .. .. 1,100,327
Unexplained reduction, £2963 .. 1,097,364
1956.. 8& 5 10 p.c.= 98,440 84,169 1,181,523
* After eliminating outside shareholders’ interests.
t Subject to, intangibles, now £19,384.
Allowing for the pref. divs. the £182,599
was equal to 22.2 p.c. on ordinary capital,
as against 23.8 p.c. in 1955, 20.6 p.c. in
1954 and 17.4 p.c. in 1953.
In 1952, because of the need to write-
down stocks in Prestige Fabrics and the
roller- and screen-printing subsidiary
Dapco Pty., Ltd., at the end of a bad
trading-year, the group recorded a net
loss of £65,062. Reorganisation of
activities followed, in which Dapco’s
works at St. Marys (N.S.W.) were closed-
down, and all fabric-printing was trans-
ferred to another subsidiary, Dyecraft
Pty., Ltd. Later on the fabric-conversion
section of Prestige Fabrics was taken
over by the parent co.
On the evidence of the latest accounts,
better results are now being achieved by
the fabrics side of the business, but it
seems likely that the lingerie- and
hosiery-making activities of the parent
co. will continue to be the main strength
behind earnings for some time to come.
At March 31, 1955, Prestige Fabrics had
a debit balance on its p. and 1. account
of £165,180.
Since then the £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. pref.
capital held by the public has been
exchanged for a like amount of pref.
scrip in the parent co., making Prestige
Fabrics a wholly-owned subsidiary, and
the co. no longer publishes separate
accounts.
Combined balance-sheet figures for
the group disclose a further consolida-
tion of the financial position:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £303,050 £303,050 £478,050
Ord 701,978 701,978 701,978
Reserves . . .. 1,000,872 1,104,544 1,181,523
Outside interests .. 223,079 231,171 61,932
Loan . . . . 600,000 475,000 450,000
Overdraft 734,555 774,205 751,231
Creditors . . . . 290,019 290,711 270,697
Tax provision . . 181,418 121,097 162,549
Final divs. .. 50,084 61,085 68,510
£3,985,055 £4,062,841 £4,126,470
Freeholds .. .. 718,371 733,415 713,402
Plant .. .. 1,256,320 1,353,625 1,322,561
Shares .. . . 65,980 70,730 70,730
Stocks .. .. 1,655,309 1,538,160 1,614,848
Debtors . . .. 244,361 340,041 383,349
Cash, etc 33,513 7,486 2,196
Intangibles, etc. .. 11,201 19,384 19,384
£3,985,055 £4,062,841 £4,126,470
Stocks were up £76,688 to £1,614,848,
and, showing a faster rate of growth,
debtors were £43,308 higher at £383,349.
The net surplus of current assets over
liabilities was £108,817 stronger, at
£747,406.
Notwithstanding a more confident
report from the board and the addition
of one point to the final dividend
(making 10 p.c. for the term), the share-
market prices the ss. ords. at 6s. 2d.
(compared with 7s. a year ago), to return
8.3 p.c. At 21s. 6d. and 13s. 6d. respec-
tively the 8 p.c. and 5 p.c. prefs. each
yield 7.4 p.c. Net tangible cover is
£4 18s. for the prefs. and 13s. 3d. ords.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
THE solid reserves of this old wool-
broker, with an ancestry going back
to 1848, are reflected in the net
asset backing of around 38s. for each £1
stock-unit. And there have been no
“revaluations” in the last half-century.
A sound holding proposition, the investor
at the current price of 30s. 9d. would
obtain a return of 5.2 p.c. on the basis
of a continued 8 p.c. div. Primarily wool-
broker and stock-and-statjon agent, the
co. is also in business as station-owner
and merchant. The issue, in 1953, of
800,000 £1 shares at a premium of ss.
brought paid-capital to the present level
of, £4 million.
Dependent mainly on the wool industry,
the co.’s earnings vary with wool prices
and seasons.
Although there was a considerable
increase in the quantity of wool handled
during the term, prices were down. Profit
for the year ended March last was lower
by £168,269 at £506,028, mainly due to
reduced earnings from the co.’s stations.
Dividend, down from 10 to 8 p.c.,
required £320,000, and, after writing-off
goodwill at £l5OO and repeating the
special staff-fund grant of £26,000,
reserves benefited by £166,084 from the
year’s activities:
Net
Mar., Earnings. ✓— Dividend Reserves.
£ £ £
Goodwill written off, £18,450 1
1951 .. 718,164 15 p.c. = 480,000' f 2,180,497
Special grant staff fund, £30,000 J
Surplus tax provision, £219,617 .. 2,400,114
Goodwill written off, £19,786 ]
1952 .. 457,094 10 p.c. = 320,000 f 2,497,422
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 j
Goodwill written off, £3OOO .. 1
1953 .. 609,061 10 p.c. = 320,000 1 2,763,483
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Share premiums, £200,000 . . . . 2,963,483
Tax overprovided, £141,195 .. .. 3,104,678
Interest arrears recovered, £24,784.. 3,129,462
Goodwill written off, £34,661 1
1954 .. 704,259 12 p.c. = 456,000 1 3,377,060
Special grant staff fund, £ 26,000 J
Goodwill written off, £25,752
1955 . . 674,297 10 p.c. = 400,000 ( 3,599,605
Special grant staff fund, £26,000.. j
Goodwill written off, £l5OO
1956 .. 506,028 8 p.c. = 320,000 1 3,765,689
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 J
Depreciation at £307,234 was lower by
£16,560, and provision for taxation
£90,000 less than that of the previous term
at £450,000. Profit was equal to 12.7 p.c.
on paid capital, compared with 16.8,
20.1, 19, 14.2 and 22.8 p.c. over the
previous five years. Shareholders’ funds
returned 6.7 p.c., against last term’s
8.8 p.c.
The book-value of the co.’s fixed assets
has increased by over £lf million in the
last five years, new capital and share
premiums bringing in £1 million. This
rate of capital-expenditure is being
maintained, and last year saw the pur-
chase of Melton Bragg and Co., Dubbo,
as well as the opening of four new
branches.
Work on the new Victorian woolstore
is almost completed, and the renovation
of both Melbourne and Sydney offices is
under way. To help meet development-
costs a long-term loan, secured by mort-
gage, has been obtained from the A.M.P.
Society (of which, incidentally, T. S.
Mort was one of the founders):
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Reserves .. 3,377;060 3,599,605 3,765,689
Mortgage .. 1,009,041
Creditors \ 8 . 616 > 161 9,301,134 9,510,555
Tax provision.. 1,096,769 1,160,397 1,002,644
Final divs. .. 342,000 280,000 200,000
£17,331,900 £18,341,136 £19,487,929
Freeholds, etc. 2,349,657 2,589,388 3,030,125
Plant .. .. 630,518 694,599 782,091
Stocks .. .. 755,059 728,232 751,951
Shares, Fenwick
and Co. .. 73,636 73,536 73,536
Shares, other cos. 65,298 65,318 67,843
Advances, etc. 7,404,322 9,880,897 12,404,774
Cash, bonds, etc. 6,053,600 4,309,166 2,377,609
£17,331,900 £18,341,186 £19,487,929
Cancelled and delayed wool-sales neces-
sitated increased advances to clients, and
there is a corresponding drop in the hold-
ings of bonds and cash. The degree to
which this and similar cos. finance the
pastoralist is indicated by the fact that
advances comprise the bulk of the £12.4
million owing to the co.
Since April, wool prices have been
rising, and this improvement, late in the
season, has led to an optimistic outlook
for the 1956-57 sales. Since the accounts
were closed, advances have been reduced,
and the co. is in a good position to get
its share of the benefits flowing from
higher prices and an expected good clip.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
MARK FOY’S accounts reveal yet
IYI ano ther co. suffering reduced profits
as a result of rising expenses. Despite
improved turnover and higher gross earn-
ings, the net profit of £134,906 is £28,961
below that of the previous year, wage-
increases and Saturday penalty-rates lift-
ing expenses to a higher level. Share-
holders’ cheques will be worth less, too,
for, although last term’s 15 p.c. div.
could have been repeated without diffi-
culty, the board thought it prudent to
recommend a 12£ p.c. distribution.
The last decade has been a prosperous
one for the retail trade generally, and this
old-established department - store has
accumulated substantial reserves. High
sales-tax, credit-control and import-
restrictions, as well as increasing expenses,
have made conditions more difficult
-during the past year, competition keeping
margins low.
After allowing £26,349 (down £272) for
depreciation, an unstated amount for
taxation, and contributing £lO,OOO (down
£5000) to the staff fund, net profit at
£134,906 represents a return of 8.4 p.c,
on shareholders’ funds. On ord. capital
the return was 21.9 p.c. (after payment of
pref. div.), compared with 27.5, 21.6, 17.5
and 21.1 p.c. over the previous four years.
Gross earnings for the year (£1,271,080)
were £13,589 higher, but the in-
crease was more than offset by the extra
£42,550 swallowed by expenses:
f Dividends \
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 212 16,374 15 p.c. = 81,056 54,782 469,771
1952.. 16,374 12$ „ „ 67,546 52,037 521,808
1953.. 111.193 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 40,782 662,590
Profit sale assets, £7OO .. •• 563,290
1954.-133,167 16,374 12$ p.c. = 67,546 49,247 612,537
Unexplained addition, £875 .. 613,412
1955.. 867 16,374 15 p.c. = 81,054 66,439 679,851
Unexplained addition, £1282.. .. 681,133
1956.-134,906 16,374 12$ p.c. = 67,546 50,986 732,119
Reserves benefited by a net £52,268,
“capital assets” account increasing by an
unexplained £1282, previously unappro-
priated profits being called on in the
establishment of a div.-equalisation
reserve of £60,000.
The financial structure is sound and
well balanced, no significant movements
occurring during the term. Paid capital
has remained at £813,269 (including
272,902 £1 prefs.) for over 20 years:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pret £272,902 £272,902 £272,902
Ord 540,367 540,367 540,367
Reserves .. .. 612,538 679,852 732,119
Overdraft .. .. 139,495 192,122 194,480
Sundry creditors* 310,775 281,282 306,630
Tax reserve .. 146,142 192,335 154,323
Final diVs. .. 48,715 55,468 41,960
£2,070,934 £2,214,828 £2,242,781
Property .. .. 814,172 822,043 843,226
Plant, etc. . . 80,000 88,000 95,000
Stocks . . .. 975,507 1,082,739 1,095,987
Book debts .. 190,548 202,779 189,498
Cash, etc 10,707 18,308 19,070
£2,070,934 £2,214,828 £2,242,781
* Includes internal provisions, etc.
Stocks are up by £13,248 to £1,095,987,
the value being stated after deducting an
unspecified provision for market fluctu-
ations. Ample allowance for depreciation
over the years has led to a very con-
servative book-value for plant and
property. Plant, £6041 higher at £95,000,
includes modem machinery at the co.’s
knitting and woollen mills, and premises
for future use in Parramatta are among
property stated at £843,226 (up £21,183).
Disclosed reserves amount to £732,119,
and comprise 46.1 p.c. of shareholders’
funds.
During last year’s take-over scramble
the £1 ord. shares rose to a “high” of over
705., falling gradually as rumor and
speculation weakened. Last sale brought
385., to yield 6.6 p.c. The prefs. return
5.6 p.c. at 21s. 6d. Net tangible assets
provide 48s. Bd. of cover for each ord.
share.
Difficult trading conditions are ex-
pected to affect immediate prospects, and
the directors have stated that the in-
creased turnover necessary to offset higher
exes, has not been achieved in the first
four months of the current term. The
retail trade is fairly quiet at the moment,
and no spectacular improvement can be
expected,
Horwood Bagshaw, Ltd.
A FALL of over 46 p.c. in net profit
shows in the accounts of Horwood
Bagshaw, Ltd., for the year to March.
Turnover (undisclosed) is claimed to be
“only slightly under previous years,” the
reduction of earnings being attributed to
rising costs and strong competition in
a well-supplied market —circumstances
common to many industries today.
A manufacturer and distributor of
agricultural machinery, general engineer
and well-boring contractor, the co.
kicked-off as J. H. Horwood and Co.,
Ltd., in 1912, taking its present name
after acquiring the business of J. S.
Bagshaw and Sons in 1924. Headquarters
and factory are in South Australia,
branches in Victoria and N.S.W. and
agents in the other three States. Paid
capital amounts to £576,659, of which
prefs. account for £76,659 ; cash-issues in
1953 (£84,413) and 1955 (£154,591)
brought ords. up to a face-value of
£500,000.
At £66,846, last term’s operating profit
was down by £80,107, following a slip
in gross earnings of £60,220. The sale
of fixed assets resulted in a surplus of
£11,679, which brought net profit up to
£78,525, after allowing £38,153 (down
£6242) for depreciation and estimating
tax at £55,000, or £38,000 less than last
term. Ordinary div. has been reduced
from 10 p.c. to 8 p.c., but, on the
increased capital, it required an extra
£5469 at £40,009:
t Dividends——,
A&BPref. Ord. Re- Re-
Mch. Profit. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. tained. serves.
81, £ £ £ £ £
Unexplained addition, £1859 .. 204,648
1952 . . 85,448 4600 26,100 64,748 259,396
Unexplained reduction, £395 .. 259,001
1953 . . 136,023 4600 26,098 105,325 364,326
1954 . . 154,664 4600 32,640 117,424 481,760
Unexplained addition, £753 .. 482,503
1955 .. 146,953 4600 34,540 107,813 590,316
Reduction capital reserve, £4216 .. 586,100
Tax underprovided, £53 .. .. 586,047
8 p.c.
1956 .. 78,525 4600 40,009 38,516 624,563
Reserves have more than trebled in the
last five years, and improved by £34,247


DAVIES Sc COLLISON. Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—A DVT.
36in.
8
■!
' ::
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will last
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PJY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear”
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Qear.
LIFE ASSURANCE
'e'tvice
FOR
©D
YEARS
■V
I
Keeping old
friends; making new
friends, since .1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building:, Hunter & Blight Streets, Sydney*
You’re sure of longer mileage with
good/^ear
TUBELESS
Now even better: made with
miracle "Cold Rubber"*
■3fr COLD RUBBER with
a molecular structure
twice as compact and
far tougher than other
types of rubber, resists
road abrasion, increases
mileages more than
22%.
□
Tens of thousands of motorists have proved Goodyear
Tubeless tyres last longer, ride more smoothly, than any other
tyre. They've rolled them over bush tracks, hammered them
along city streets, sped them along highways, found little sign
of wear when other tyres have failed.
And million-mile-a-year taxi operators have posted up
record tyre-mileages, set further recap records and, when
replacement time came, invested again, confidently, in time-
proven Goodyear Tubeless.
Punctures may damage tube-type tyres beyond
repair save with Goodyear Tubeless
When a tube-type
tyre is punctured by
o nail, air escapes
through nail hole
and between tyre
and tube, then on
through valve hole.
Tyre can be irrepar-
ably damaged be-
fore halt is made.
'( jam
ssaisam
Exclusive Grip-Seal
construction of
Goodyear Tubeless
means tyre clings
tightly around nail,
prevents air-loss, per-
mits completion of
journey. Puncture
may be repaired at
convenient time.
GOOD/fEAR tubeless
AND TUBE-TYPE TYRES
cissA
after adjustment for under-
provided tax (£53) and a reduc-
tion of £4216 in the “capital
reserve” due, presumably, to the
expenses of the share-issue made
during the year. Earnings were
down to 6.5 p.c. of shareholders’
funds, compared with 14.5 p.c.
in the previous term, increased
capital as well as a smaller profit
contributing to the lower rate.
After payment of pref. divs., ord.
capital showed 14.8 p.c.
The cost of improvements to
the new Victorian showroom
and offices is included in £lOO,OOO
devoted to capital-expenditure ;
after depreciation the book-
value of plant and properties is
up £68,978 at £620,875. The
reduction in stocks (down
£18,340 at £703,292) and
creditors (46,712 lower at
£204,912) indicates a cautious
approach to the current year:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £76,659 £76,659
Ord 345,409 500,000
Reserves .. .. 590,316 624,568
Overdraft.. .. 124,124 136,000
Creditors, etc. .. 344,624 259,921
Final div. .. 23,024 22,300
£1,504,156 £1,619,443
Freehold property,
plant, etc. .. 561,897 620,875
Stock .. .. 721,632 703,292
Debtors .. .. 216,497 282,115
Cash .. .. 14,130 13,161
£1,504,156 £1,619,443
Reserves are strong at £624,563,
and outside liabilities amount to
only 25.8 p.c. of the total assets.
Net tangible backing is almost
455. for the £1 ords.
An exceptionally wet season in
the eastern States, lower overseas
prices for agricultural products
and tighter internal credit have
caused a slackening in the pur-
chases of farm machinery. The
trend to greater mechanisation
of farming continues, how-
ever, and although the co.’s
immediate prospects are not as
bright as they were, the present
div.-rate doesn’t appear to be
in great danger. Fluctuating
fortunes appear to be the lot of
the primary producer, and his
misfortunes will inevitably affect
those firms serving primary
industries. Selling at 245. 4d. on
Adelaide ’Change last July, the
f.-p. £1 ords. are now at par.
Southern Motors Holdings
A S anticipated by investors,
Southern Motors Holdings’
first annual accounts (to April)
disclose a big profit.
Operating in Melbourne, the
co. was formed in May, 1955,
acquiring all the paid capital in
the 26 - year - old Southern
Motors Pty., Ltd., with the issue
of shares to a face-value of
£lBO,OOO. Foundation - share-
holders then added £50,000 to
paid capital with a cash sub-
scription, and the public quickly
paid-in another £BO,OOO to bring
total paid-up capital to £230,000
in ss. shares.
Revaluation, and undistributed
profits taken over, less goodwill,
gave reserves a good start at
£68,137. The subsidiary co. is
the sole metropolitan distributor
of Pontiac cars, and is one of
Melbourne’s four Holden dis-
tributors.
Showing 48.8 p.c. on capital,
profit of £105,444 is arrived at
after allowing £2524 for depreci-
ation and providing £77,112 for
taxation. On total shareholders’
funds the rate of earnings was
29.7 p.c. Preliminary expenses
(£4996) and goodwill written-off
(£3074) left shareholders and
reserves to share £97,374. The
\l\ p.c, dividend required
£40,250 of this amount, and
reserves, strengthened by the
balance (£57,124), now total
£125,261. Shareholders’ funds
account for a little over 58 p.c.
of balance-sheet totals.
Freehold properties, shown at
either cost or recent valuation,
stand at £208,691, and extensions
and additions are planned.
During the term a used-car lot
was opened as an outlet for used
vehicles, and two further yards
are to follow soon. Land,
adjacent to North Melbourne
premises, has also been acquired
with future expansion in mind.
There was a strong demand
for last year’s public issue, and
the ss. shares were soon over
11s. There are net tangible assets
to the value of 7s. 9d. for each
share, and last sales in Mel-
bourne brought 11s. 6d., to
return 7.6 p.c. on the 17j p.c.
basis.
Credit-restrictions and the
high rate of sales-tax are intensi-
fying the strong competition
evident in the new-car market,
but the directors are confident
that the co. will operate success-
fully under these conditions.
Their optimism seems to be well
founded, for, with a new model
helping to maintain the high level
of Holden sales, the distributors
of this vehicle enjoy a favored
position in the trade.
“Papinaipi”
Papuan apinaipi petro-
leum Co., Ltd., is making
an issue of 3,000,000 ss. shares
with alternative choices as to
method of payment of calls. The
directors reserve the right to
accept additional applications for
a further 1,000,000 shares rank-
ing equally. Existing share-issue
is 879,321 ords. of ss. each.
A negotiable option will be
attached to each share entitling
the option-holder to take up one
ss. ord. at par by payment in
full at any time within five
years from the date of the pro-
spectus. The co. reserves the
right to require option-holders
to take up their options by pay-
ment in full on a month’s notice
at any time within five years
from the date of the prospectus
on an announcement by the
Administrator of Papua of the
discovery of oil in commercial
quantities in the co.’s permit-
area.
Existing shareholders are
entitled to priority in allotment
in respect of 2,000,000 shares.
Underwriters have taken
400,000 shares, ahd Associated
Australian Oilfields, N.L., has
taken firm 500,000 shares.
Arrangements have been con-
cluded with Associated Aus-
tralian Oilfields whereby that co.
has agreed to sell its National
T 32 mobile drilling-plant, with
all spares, casing, drill-pipe and
ancillary equipment, recently
imported from the U.S.A., to
Papuan Apinaipi in exchange for
fully-paid shares at par outside
the scope of the present issue,
but carrying the same rights as
the shares of the issue. The
actual number of stich shares
remains to be determined, but
the estimated approximate
landed value of the drilling-plant
and associated equipment is
£220,000.
This arrangement is to enable
Papuan Apinaipi to begin drill-
ing at the earliest possible date.
[On page 14 of this issue of “The
Bulletin-” oil-geologist L. Owen dis-
cusses the activity in Oil Search
shares, the Kura gas-strike, and the
geological differences between the
western and eastern oil-prospecting
areas of Fapua.]
When all shares and options
are fully availed of, Associated
Australian Oilfields, N.L., will
hold approximately 331 pc.
the total issued capital at the
completion of full subscription,
and will nominate two directors
to represent it on the Papuan
Apinaipi board. Associated
Australian Oilfields, N.L., is to
go on with the investigation of its
areas in the Gulf of Carpentaria
and Bonaparte Gulf, and will
retain the Sullivan 300 a drilling-
plant for general exploration.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
People wavered during the week
between bitter complaints about the cold
(the minimum was 40.4 degrees—is that
really cold?) and rejoicing about the sun-
shine and warmth (the maximum was
over 65 degrees). They also wavered
between spending their money on the
winter throwouts at the sales (this was
when the temperature was in the forties)
and on the new season’s stock, spotted
pure-silk, embroidered linens and Swiss-
cottons at 275. 6d. a yard (this was when
the temperature was in the sixties).
* ☆ «
There was a great rally, 600 strong, at
the afternoon party at the Trocadero for
the diamond jubilee of the National
Council of Women. Almost every woman
prominent in Sydney’s public life was
present and every important organisation
was represented. There were 60 seated at
the camellia-decked official table —a
happy though probably unintentional
substitute for 60 candles on a cake.
Several people had to overcome con-
siderable difficulties to be present. The
Governor, Sir John Northcott (who had
been told, he said, “to wrap up warmly
and not talk much”), was just recovering
from influenza. Mrs. J. Metcalfe, State
president of the N.C.W., had to borrow
a pair of crutches to come along, because
of an accident to her knee, and Miss
Gladys Moncrieff, who was suffering from
bronchitis, could stay only half-an-hour —
doctor’s orders. However, as promised,
she sang “Land of Hope and Glory,” and
was warmly applauded. The main
speaker was the Federal president of the
N.C.W., Miss Ruth Gibson, who spoke
mainly about her recent visit to the 10th
session of the U.N. Status of Women
Commission.
☆ ☆ ☆
A tip of which one hopes never to
make any use was that given by Dr. John
McGeorge in his talk on “Murder and
Its Motives” last week. “If you ever
find yourself in the box for murder,”
said the doctor (who is also a lawyer, by
the way), “wear a black frock with white
touches, a black hat and a demure look.”
The only objection is that it would be
so embarrassing if you found the judge
wearing the same sort of hat that you
were.
Dr. McGeorge’s lively talk was given
at the At Home of the Ladies’ Auxiliary
of the Royal Empire Society to a large
and fascinated audience. Guests-of-
honor were Lady Manners, Lady Collins
and Mrs. W. H. Trethowan, attractive
wife of the recently appointed Professor
of Psychiatry at Sydney University.
When introducing the speaker, Mrs. Roy
McKerihan told an amusing story of
the much-married American who was
amazed to hear that an Australian she
met had been married for 35 years. “All
that time with the one man!” said the
American. “Haven’t you ever thought
of divorce?” “No, not divorce,” said
the Australian. “But I’ve thought of
murder.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Spring hats are showing in the shop-
windows. They are more like huge
meringues than anything, swathed all over
with white or pastel organdie and
trimmed with one perfect rose. Price?
Eighteen-guineas (including sales-tax).
☆ ☆ ☆
A new kind of social function which
proved very successful was the Book
Review arranged by Lady Plowman in
aid of the St. John Ambulance, and held
at her Bellevue Hill home. The reviewer
was Mr. Ernest Burbridge, a witty and
amusing speaker ; the books he reviewed
included Patrick White’s Tree of Man.
This sort of gathering is a welcome
change, and, as it promotes lively con-
versation, could well be encouraged and
imitated.
# # #
Mr. Leslie Rees, Federal Drama Editor
for the Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion, gave an interesting talk on the
relationship between literature, drama
and the theatre at the literary-luncheon
at the Royal Empire Society on Thurs-
day. In making special reference to
Douglas Stewart’s “Ned Kelly” he said
that Mr. Stewart had done much to
reconcile literature with the theatre, and
that the coming production of the play
by the Elizabethan Theatre Trust should
be a landmark in the history of Aus-
tralian theatre.
Among those who attended the
luncheon were Dr. Colin Roderick, Mr.
and Mrs. R. D. Fitz Gerald, Mrs. Rees
(who is co-author with her husband in
travel-books), Mrs. Ted Scorfield, and
Mrs. W. R. Donohoe with her daughter
Patricia, who recently returned from
abroad.
☆ ☆ ☆
Noted in town were honeymooners Mr.
and Mrs. Rod O’Connor, who returned
this week from a two-months’ visit to
Hong Kong and Singapore. They flew
to Tasmania on Friday and will make-
their home at Cressy. Mrs. O’Connor
was formerly Miss Rosalind Cameron, of
Launceston.
☆ ☆ ☆
A late-afternoon cocktail-party was
held at the Rural Bank last week —it was
given by the committee of National Opera
—to welcome home from its successful
extended tour of Queensland the cast of
“Madame Butterfly” and the honorary-
director of Nat. Opera, Mrs. C. T.
Lorenz, who organised and directed the
tour. Eight of the principals sang solos
and concerted numbers from various
operas, and Mrs.' Lorenz spoke of the
many amusing emergencies which had
arisen on tour and of the unorthodox
means which had to be adopted to over-
come some of them. There was a big
roll-up of supporters.
Rania Sanderson, of Wallah, Narrabri,
has recently become engaged to Lionel
Manchee, who is the only son of the
John Manchees, of Yamburgan Station
(Q). This is the second engagement in
the Manchee family in the past few
weeks, the other being that of Peter
Manchee, of Weetah, Moree (son of the
(Alan Manchees), to Mary Kirkby, of
Bellata (N.S.W.). Rania’s photograph is
by Dayne.
The first daffodils were sighted in the
shops this week, priced at 2s. each. Old
Chinese philosopher, he say: “If you
have two loaves of bread, sell one and
buy a daffodil.” Sydney florist, he say:
“If you want to buy a daffodil, you’ll have
to go hungry!”
☆ ☆ *
Dame Mary Gilmore’s birthday-party
is to be a big affair this year. It will be
held in the Paddington Town Hall on
August 15, at 8 p.m., and will be in
aid of the Chair of Australian Litera-
ture. Tickets (155.) can be had from
Walter Stone, 64 Young-street, Cremorne,
or from W. E. Fitz Henry at The
Bulletin.
“The growing influence of women is
something we must reckon with in the
future,” said the Governor, Sir John
Northcott, at the diamond-jubilee cele-
bration of the National Council of
Women. “I speak with feeling on this
subject,” continued his Excellency, “as
my family consists of a wife, two
daughters and four granddaughters!”
* ☆ *
Helen Roberts, who will be the
principal soprano in the Gilbert and
Sullivan season to start in Melbourne on
August 11, arrived in Sydney during the
week from New Zealand. With her is her
husband Robert Walker, who will have
several roles as well as directing produc-
tion. Their arrival prompted the follow-
ing catty conversation (which
Melbournites may skip if they wish):
“Why do most of the big theatrical
productions start in Melbourne?” “Oh,
that’s because they want to give them
a tryout in the provinces before bringing
them to the capital!”
MELBOURNE
The glory of ancient Greece was the
inspiration for the magnificent backdrop
which dominated the Town Hall stage for
the Lord Mayor’s Ball. Bathed in
brilliant sunshine and set against a
changing sky, the Parthenon was fronted
by a paved court, in which moss and
trailing-plants grew among the stones.
Here was the figure of a Greek athlete,
his torch lit from the flame which glowed
from a stone plinth. Between two huge
boomerangs gleamed a lighted shield
bearing the city’s crest. Terraced lawns,
reaching from the edge of the dance-
floor to the stage, were set with cycla-
mens, tawny orchids and scarlet and
palest-pink poinsettias. At the back of
the official enclosure was a backdrop of
royal-purple velvet centred with the
Olympic circles, and from the balcony
hung the Olympic banners.
Heralded by an R.A.A.F. trumpeters’
fanfare, the vice-regal party, with the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress and
other official guests, walked through a
guard-of-honor composed of scarlet-
coated officers of the Royal Melbourne
Regiment.
Very beautiful was the ice-blue
duchesse-satin gown worn by Lady
Brooks. The bodice was folded into a
V-neckline, cut wide to the shoulders,
and the very full skirt had extra fullness
at the back to form a slight train. A
diamond tiara was worn with it. Lady
Selleck’s gown was of pure-silk oyster-
pink duchesse-satin, richly beaded in a
design of true-lovers’ knots and scrolls
which emphasised the Empire-bodice
and outlined the deep points which fell
into a wide skirt of deep-geranium-red
satin. Mrs. Robin Byrne’s gown had a
wide neckline and was buttoned down
the centre-front.
Designed by herself, the gown worn by
Mrs. A. G. Rylah was outstanding. It
was of velvet in deep-cornflower-blue
and featured a hooped-skirt. At intervals
the skirt was caught with posies of
Parma-violets to reveal a white-lace
underskirt. Mrs. Harold Holt’s full-
skirted gown of white Chantilly-lace was
unusual, for it featured a skirt cut short
in front and with a dipping hemline at
the back. Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson (daughter
of Sir Frank and Lady Selleck) was
attractive in a full-skirted gown of sea-
blue tulle, matched with a wide taffeta
stole. A sheath-gown of heavy silver-
lace, which had a heavily-jewelled bodice,
was worn by Mrs. Leo Curtis.
# # #
This city’s oldest public-institution, the
Athenaeum, celebrated its 117th anni-
versary with an Olympic Year Celebra-
tion Dinner in the Union House at the
University. Olympic flags and brightly-
colored Olympic travel-posters were
appropriate decorations.
The large official party, received by
Athenaeum president Trevor Rapke and
Mrs. Rapke, included Acting-Premier
A. G. Rylah, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Sir Frank and Lady Selleck),
Sir William and Lady Bridgeford, Sir
John Latham, Labor Minister G. O. Reid
and Mrs. Reid, Acting Chief-Secretary
Murray Porter and Mrs. Porter, and Prof.
lan Maxwell and Mrs. Maxwell.
* * *
Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Arma-
dale, was the setting for the marriage of
Judith, only daughter of Mrs. Edward
Bannon, of Armadale, and the late Dr.
E. Bannon, of Warrnambool, with Chris-
topher Beecroft, youngest son of Sir
John and Lady Allison, of Kew.
The titian-haired bride chose a full-
skirted gown of white velvet, the long-
sleeved bodice embroidered with pearls,
the wide, stiffened skirt threaded with
white satin, finishing at one side in a large
bow. Her three-tiered tulle veil was
caught with a circlet of orange-blossom
and her bouquet was of white gardenias.
Her two bridesmaids, Gillian McLean
and Jenny Holmes, wore short bouffant
frocks of white velvet, the rounded neck-
lines banded with white fur. White-fur
Alice-bands were on their heads, and
their short white gloves were also banded
with fur. They carried posies of white
camellias tied with green ribbon. Brian
McHutchison was best man and John
Allison was his brother’s groomsman.
Mrs. Bannon, assisted by the bride’s
godfather (Dr. John Bryan) and Sir
John and Lady Allison, received the
guests at a buffet-dinner party at the
Hotel Windsor.
Dexter Vaughan has come from
England to appear in the Olympic Year
International Fashion Parades. A honey-
blonde (during the war she was voted the
most glamorous member of the
W.R.A.A.F. ), she is married to film-
producer Philip Azlewood, now making
a documentary film in Europe. She has
worked in Paris and toured Japan, South
America and French Morocco with
Christian Dior’s collections. She has also
modelled for well-known English
designers Norman Hartnell, Victor Stiebel
and John Cavanagh. Photo by John
Warlow.
Operation Gratitude, which was
formally opened this week by the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, will receive
the proceeds from the gala dinner and
International Olympic Year Fashion
Show. It is an R.S.L. appeal in aid of
ex-servicemen and -women, including the
Returned War Nurses.
In the official party at the gala night
were the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Sir Frank and Lady Selleck), she wear-
ing a lovely mist-blue satin-gown; Sir
William and Lady Bridgeford, Consul
for France M. Le Bas de Plumetot and
his wife, the Consul-General for Italy
and the Marchesa Serafini, and Mr. and
Mrs. Stanley' Hunt. They were received
by the co-managing-director of the Myer
Emporium (Mr. A. H. Tolley) and Mrs.
Tolley, she wearing a lovely white lace
frock under a white faille coat. Five-
hundred guests sat down to dinner in the
Myer Mural Hall, among them Mrs.
Robin Byrne, daughter of the Governor
and Lady Brooks, and Mr. and Mrs.
Kenneth Myer. Magnificent gowns and
furs were worn.
Mrs. Warrender, who was with her
husband, the Hon. Simon Warrender,
wore a short frock of white guipure-
lace. Cut on sheath-lines, it was strap-
less and had a white satin bow across
the front of the bodice. Mrs. Rodney
Myer, who was with her husband and
mother (Mrs. A. G. Silk), wore a short,
strapless frock of white lace, appliqued
on black satin. Mrs. Harry Long and
Mrs. Noel Dixon both chose short frocks
of black Chantilly-lace* Mrs. D. Git-
sham’s lovely and unusual form-fitting
gown was of Paisley brocade ; Mrs. John
Carrodus chose a short bouffant frock
of royal-blue silk-organza, with the skift
very finely pleated. Mrs. Jim Wallace
wore a black wool-jersey frock with the
scooped-neckline of the bodice trimmed
with rows of tiny multicolored pearl-
shells.
* ☆ *
The third and final play by the Eliza-
bethan Trust Drama Co., “The Summer
of the 17th Doll,” is now at the Comedy
Theatre. No striking gowns were seen in
the audience on opening night; ballerina
frocks were the most popular choice,
although there were a few formal gowns.
Mrs. Rupert Downes chose a full-length
evening-gown of black velvet, and Mrs.
T. Wallace Mitchell a short black one,
with a jacket of leopard-skin. Professor
and Mrs. George Paton were in the
audience with Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gib-
son, and also present were Mrs. Fred
Parslowe (with her brother Mr. E.
Haisman), Irene Mitchell (she will pro-
duce “Tea and Sympathy” at the Princess
Theatre for Garnet Carroll), and Helen
Roberts, who will be seen in leading roles
during the Gilbert and Sullivan season at
Her Majesty’s.


NORTHERN TERRITORY
IN BRIEF
96 Pages with Sketches
and Photographs
Price: 3/6d. Posted 4/-
From—
ANGUS & ROBERTSON,
Sydney and Melbourne
or
N.T. PUBLICATION
SYNDICATE,
592 Warburton St.,
Alice Springs, N.T.
N.T 1N....8R1EF
CURED
Ca&h/
suK'bl'l CU
PROTECTA
6Vml- fejf
Suitable (or every type of - business II record*
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send (or lull detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —•
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH .
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Boob Co. lAuat.)
Holder Large Potentially
Valuable
RUTILE AREAS,
Queensland, requires assist-
ance from sound company
to test and exploit.
Contact
BEACH SANDS,
P.O. Box 73,
South Brisbane
Divorce Notices
IN~THE~ supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Uivorce. ___
TO JOSEPH HAROLD STEPHEN
WEAVER formerly of Campsie and
EDNA DAVIS formerly ol Five Dock.
TAKE NOTICE that IRENE GRACE
WEAVER has filed Petition No. U 99 ot
1954 praying for Divorce from JUb-k*'**
HAROLD' STEPHEN WEAVER on the
ground of his adultery with EDNA DAVIS
It you the said JOSEPH HAROLD
STEPHEN WEAVER wish to defend you
xnav enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King,Street
Sydney V the State of New South Wales by
the 21st day of September 1956 You the
said EDNA DAVIS may apply to the said
Court to be let in to defend and service
upon you will be deemed to be complete
by the 24th day of August 1956 A copy
of the Petition may be obtained free of
charge from MR. JOHN W. BINNE ,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, 1 9 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BETTY DAWN NEAVE late of Pad-
stow.—TAKE NOTICE that ROY NEAVE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2581
of 1955 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 2nd day of October, 1956 and
obtain a copy of the ion without
charge from WILSON & THOMSON, of
155 King Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Missing Friend
PENNING. —The undersigned Solicitors
desire to trace GEORGE WILLIAM
FENNING or HARRY FENNING or
FREDERICK FENNING (children ot
GEORGE FENNING), all of whom many
years ago migrated from England to Aus-
tralia with their widowed mother, who is
believed to have remarried. These children
or their descendants (who may have
adopted their stepfather’s name) could
be entitled to share in an English Estate.
—LYNCH & MACDONALD, Solicitors,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne.-
lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Store*
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE;
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
,092 MT. ALEXANDER RD„ ESSENDON. VICTORIA.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“Witness for the Prosecution”
“I know who did it,” one s
wife announced triumphantly
only a few minutes after the
curtain had gone up on Agatha
Christie’s “Witness for the
Prosecution” at Sydney’s Eliza-
bethan Theatre. “And it’s a
shame about the eight cats.”
“Sssh! ” we hissed. “And don’t
be silly. Miss Christie probably
doesn’t know herself at this
stage.” . . . .
“Sssh!” said someone behind
us. .
The concern about the eight
cats, rather than the murdered
old lady who owned them, was
probably occasioned by the fact
that one’s wife also has eight
cats which follow her about in
a seething forest of fur with
eight tails swaying and waving
like inverted sky-hooks.
At the first interval one con-
sidered the evidence so far
wealthy old lady done-in with
a cosh somewhere between 9.30
and 10 in the evening; amiable,
penurious young fellow who has
been developing friendship with
her for some time visited her on
same evening; eminent solicitor
and barrister, like a couple of:
well-fed and distinguished old
bloodhounds,-believe the young
fellow’s story that he left the
old duck early and was home
before 9.30 p.m.; young fellow’s
wife, a Russian whom he married
on the Continent, supporting his
story, though not very convin-
cingly ; and the murdered
woman’s dour Scottish house-
keeper asserting that she heard
the young man talking to the
old lady at an incriminating
hour of the evening.
Then the cops, who believe the
obvious; and the young fellow
is up before the Beak in Old
Bailey.
“It’s quite obvious,” said one’s
wife, standing in the foyer.
“Nonsense,” we said; “noth-
ing is obvious at this stage.”
And so back to the evidence
in court the housekeeper’s
damning statement ; the young
fellow’s wife confounding him
and the rest by putting a noose
arouqd his neck with hangman-
like efficiency; the evidence
about the blood on his sleeves ;
and some pleasant exchanges
between the Bench and the rival
barristers.
“Wait till the next act, and
then you’ll see I’m right,” said
one’s wife over a lemonade
during the next interval.
“For once you’ll have to
apologise,” we said.
Then the next scene —in the
defending barrister’s chambers
—and the mysterious other
woman with the letters and the
razor-scar ,on her face. Then
Old Bailey again, and one sneak-
ing a triumphant sidelong smirk
at one’s wife. And next Miss
Christie piling it all on a little
too thickly and confounding the
confusion that has already been
twice confounded.
And then, while the audience
applauded Philip Stainton
(defending barrister), HarVey
Adams (solicitor), Richard
Beynon (accused), Nicolette
Bernard (his wife) and the rest
of a long cast, one looked at
one’s wife, who was wearing that
enigmatic little smile Which she
always assumes when, as usual,
she is absolutely right.
Rocking back to Wynyard in
Mr. Winsor’s rattler, one asked
her, “How did you guess?”
“I didn’t guess,” she said. “I
knew.” And then, with that
feminine peculiarity that enjoys
a mystery twice as much if it’s
not a mystery to them at all, “I
thought it was very good.”
“But how . . .?”
“You can just tell these
things,” she said. And then, “I
hope all our cats are all right.”
* *l* ❖
Los Angeles
In her Brisbane concerts this
soprano quickly demonstrated
why her reputation is almost
legendary overseas. It is a pity,
though, that she is not singing
more opera in Australia, for
opera seems to be her first love,
though perhaps it has to run in
competition with the songs of
her native Spain. To these in
particular she brings her own
brand of charm and sophistica-
tion, qualities that suit the more
modern Spanish pieces, though
the Falla Popular Songs could
reek a little more of the gutter
than they did in these recitals.
It was in the lieder section of
her programmes that one could
sense the soprano’s operatic
background. Here even Schubert
and Schumann songs sounded
like arias, and impressive ones
at that. But, finely sung though
these songs were, the approach
lacked the authentic feeling for
the essential mood of each song
that Irmgard Seefried, for
example, so movingly com-
manded.
The impressions most likely to
remain of Victoria de los Angeles
are those of the most purely
beautiful voice to come this way
in years. It was nowhere heard
to better advantage than in two
dramatic songs by Respighi and
in a Hebrew melody by Ravel —
this last, “Kaddisch,” a long
paean of praise, was the pinnacle
of an evening of vocal loveliness.
D. J. M.
£« $ &
Kurt Woess
The Viennese conductor began
the subscription - concert at
Sydney Town Hall on Saturday
night leading the Symphony
Orchestra through the “II
Seraglio” Overture, but scarcely
a bubble of Mozartian effer-
vescence rose to the surface.
There followed “Furiosa,” by
the contemporary Swiss com-
poser Liebermann. The double-
fortissimo blast with which it
began nearly twisted the big
organ-pipes at the back ; there-
after, except for a short middle-
section, it was as if several chaff-
cutters, concrete-mixers and
jackhammers were having it out
with the berserk brasses.
Robert Masters (violin),
Muriel Taylor (’cello) and Kin-
loch Anderson (piano) were the
soloists in Beethoven’s Triple
Concerto, and they made the con-
versation between their instru-
ments one of intimate charm,
yet always crisp and to the point.
The final movement is an essay
in pure rhythm, and Woess gave
it life and lilt, while holding an
excellent balance between the
solo - instruments and the
orchestral bulk.
Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony
ended the programme and there
was immense vigor and dramatic
urgency in the opening section,
an unmistakable note of the
macabre in the sardonic scherzo,
and then the brilliant blaze of the
final allegro.
* &
“A Question of Fact”
This, the Independent Theatre’s
current offering at North
Sydney, is a drama by Wynyard
Browne of psychological and
domestic interest.
A young schoolmaster, newly
married, has just discovered
that he has been brought up as
an adopted child and that his
father was hanged for murder.
The first act establishes the
effect this news has on him, and
on his young wife and his rela-
tion to his school work.
The second act rather tedi-
ously drives this point home, but
the third act springs to life with
the return of his mother, who,
far from being the poor old
woman his imagination has
conjured up, turns out to be a
confident and successful fashion-
buyer, played with wit and poise
by Doris Fitton.
The schoolmaster and his wife
are played by Edward. Lowe and
Joan Bray, who both show fine
promise in their ability to
express emotional tension.
* * *
University Festival
, “The Trojan Women,” by
Euripides, and Sheridan’s “The
Critic,” both on the same pro-
gramme at Sydney Uni., seemed
strange bedfellows at first glance.
The former, with its bitter
denunciation of the marauding
Athenians just after the fall of
Troy, was kept alive largely
through the efforts of Joanne
Williamson, as an insult-spitting
Helen, and Douglas Bladon, as
a clanking, armorclad Menelaus.
The Chorus was insecure, and
Peter Platt’s offstage trumpet
bilious.
But if the weepings and wail-
ings of “The Trojan Women”
momentarily dampened the
Wallace Theatregoers, Sheridan’s
tongue-in-cheek opus on theatre-
life more than revived everyone.
It was an excellent all-round
production, with Grahame Kent,
David Bluford and Peter Mac-
Donald in topnotch form, and
with clever lighting and scenery.
Both productions by the
Sydney University Players.
A. W.
Artbursts
Australian Art Society
The Australian Art Society, a
sort of pale shadow of the Royal
Art Society, gets too severely
criticised these days because
when, as here, artists are trying
to paint conventionally their
weaknesses are instantly
apparent; whereas with the more
experimental .schools anything is
likely to be praised because
there are no fixed standards. At
least a sound painter might
emerge from the sincere technical
efforts here made.
But not much more remains
to be said about the society’s
current exhibition at David
Jones’, Sydney, except that there
are glimmerings of quality in the
watercolors by Miriam Moxharn.
W. H. Hibble and Lionel Taprell.
Garrett Kingsley has a head-
study of some charm ; and there
are two interesting oil-landscapes
by T. de Roty Fodone and Sam
Goddard, the first with a fresh
viewpoint, the other completely
conventional but unexpectedly
substantial.
♦♦♦ *
Moya Dyring
Moya Dyring’s exhibition of
oil-landscapes from abroad at
Sydney Bissietta Gallery might
have looked a great deal more
impressive if good frames
weren’t so shockingly expensive
these days. She paints with
scraggy drawing and a tacky
surface and consequently does
best in quick, small canvases
which have rather the effect of
watercolor travel-notes: notably
“Metro,” “Tour St. Jacques” and
“Le Bousslet.”
Talkies
“Anything Goes” (Sydney
Prince Edward): A lively back-
stage musical, with Bing Crosby
and Donald O’Connor singing
and hoofing in between some
amiable wrangling, as joint-
producers, about the respective
merits of the dancer each has
selected for a leading role. One
scene in which O’Connor dances
for children in a playroom on
an Atlantic liner is a gem.
“The Revolt of Mamie
Stover” (Sydney Regent): A
dull plot—about a brassy
American prostitute in Honolulu
who, during the war, aims to
become a realty tycoon —and
duller dialogue, plus Jane
Russell, don’t help this one.
“Gaby” (Sydney Liberty):
Tepid remake of Sherwood’s
“Waterloo Bridge,” with the
original story put through the
mincer. Leslie Caron, whose
elfin charm suited so well the
fantasy of “The Glass Slipper,”
fails to adapt herself to the
dramatic necessities of this story,
and John Kerr doesn’t wring
much conviction from his role of
the soldier-lover.
“Jubal” (Sydney Capitol): The
best Western since “Shane” and
“High Noon,” this has a solid
story about a rugged, likeable
middle - aged cattle - rancher
(Ernest Borgnine) whose young
wife (Valerie French) tries her
wiles unsuccessfully on a decent
new young ranch-hand (Glenn
Ford). A rejected lover (Rod
Steiger) views the proceedings
with a jaundiced eye, and, lago-
like, does fatal mischief. Charac-
terisation is sharp and the
hatreds of men forced to live in
isolation are skilfully developed.
£+ >Jt- <2*
“Jack Daw”: “That was
before World War I,” says The
Bulletin’s Melbourne Show-
man. (6/6/’56), speaking of the
“Volga Boat Song” “rising from
timber-rafts floating down that
river to the Black Sea.” These
world wars have a way of chang-
ing the course of things; today
the Volga flows into the Caspian
Sea.


Brigalow
By
R. S.
PORTEOUS
STORY TO NOW
Bob A nders, 26 - year - old
cattleman, goes as overseer to
Yakaparni, far out in Central
Queensland, an appointment
arranged by city bank-manager
Forster, who knows that owner
Carson and head - stockman
Albert Newton are badly running
the station. Newton leaves
angrily after a showdown and
Bob engages as a new team
tough little horseman Wonga
Watkins, Mick Grey, Steve
Hartley and Duffy Spooner. Car-
son, quick-tempered but shrewd,
and quietly managed by Mrs.
Carson, leaves running the cattle
to Bob, who, at the Dilargo
township pub run by Curly
Ryan, meets Dr. Greer, and sub-
sequently his daughter Carla,
and takes her to dances. The
Carsons’ teenage daughter, Julia,
comes on vacation from city
schooling. Bob, escorting her
about the station, thinks her
rather plain and very affected,
but finds her already a first-rate
horsewoman.
CHAPTER XV
DURING the next few
days Carson and I were
kept busy repairing a
broken pump-rod on
one of the bores. We drove out
in the tilly each morning, starting
early and finishing late in a race
to get the mill pumping before
the cattle drank the big tank
dry.
It was hot, backbreaking
work, winching up the heavy
casing, length by length, until we
came to the break, but Carson
never once complained. He was
in ah excellent mood, despite
the fact that the country was
badly in need of rain.
The cattle were in good con-
dition, but the grass was so dry
that it needed only one match
to set the whole run ablaze.
I pointed this out to Carson,
and he said, “It wouldn’t do
much harm. We’ll get the rain
any day now, and a good fire
would only clean-up all the
rubbish. I’ve got a good mind
to put a match to it myself.”
I wondered what was making
him. so cheerfully optimistic, and
it was not until we had the bore
pumping again that I found out.
Unable to contain himself any
longer, he told me he had bought
the new car and arranged for it
to be railed to Dilargo.
“But, good heavens,” I ex-
claimed, “you haven’t even seen
it! You can’t buy a car like
that, as if you were sending
for a new pair of riding-pants
by mail-order.”
“Who says I can’t?” he
demanded. “I’ve done it, and
it’ll be here on Thursday morn-
ing’s train. I haven’t said a
word about it to the missus or
Julie. Keeping it as a surprise.
I thought you and I might slip
in and collect it, and then you
could drive it home.”
I laughed, but I promised to
keep his secret.
Next day I caught a quiet
horse and rode off to see how
the water was holding-out up the
top end of the run. Julia did
not ask if she could come with
me. Her attention had been
entirely taken up with Wonga
lately. She sat on the top rail
and watched while he was work-
ing in the yard, squatted in the
dust beside him and talked
jyiule he rolled a smoke, and
rode a quiet horse out with him
when he exercised a youngster
outside. She said she thought he
was simply marvellous. Until
that afternoon I had no idea
whether Wonga enjoyed her
help and company or thought her
a nuisance.
I was riding home early,
intending to put in the rest of
the afternoon training my dogs,
when I saw Wonga and Julia
cantering through the timber
some distance away, i thought
“.There’s one good thing about
it, the kid saves me from having
to do the coaching-work every
time Wonga takes a fresh one
out.”
And then I reined-in and'
stared. Wonga was riding the
coach and Julia the youngster.
There was no mistaking the
semi-crab wise gait of the half-
broken colt, nor was there any
mistaking the small figure plying
a strap and punching vigorously
with her heels.
The pair of riders disappeared
behind a thick patch of box-
saplings ; then I raced to cut
them off.
Carson would be furious if he
found out about this, but no
more furious than I was at that
moment. The old boy would
probably demand that I sack
Wonga on the spot; a very
reasonable demand, too, I felt.
Riding a raw youngster is
hard work. In timbered country
it can .also be extremely
dangerous for an inexperienced
horseman. At one moment you
may be using all your energy
in an effort to keep a colt canter-
ing, and seconds later you are
straining to stop him from bolt-
ing. He may take fright and
buck —a goanna scuttling for
the safety of the nearest tree
will provide him with an
excellent excuse for that and
his general tendency to go side-
ways makes it all " too easy to
collide with a tree.
Both riders had eased to a
walk when I pulled pp in front
of them, and both were
obviously surprised to see me.
Wonga said, “It’s a fair cop,
Julie.”
“Too right it is,” I answered
savagely. “Get off that colt,
Julia.”
“I wasn’t aware I had to take
orders from you.” Her small
freckled face was flushed, and
she was still panting from her
recent exertion. “What if I tell
you to mind your own busi-
ness?”
“Get off,” I repeated.
Wonga edged his horse in
close and secured a firm hold on
the cheek-strap of the colt’s
bridle.
“Hop down, Julie,” he
advised. “I’ve got ’im.”
She vaulted lightly off and
stood flicking her leg with the
crupper-strap dangling from her
wrist.
“Well,” she asked, staring
up at me defiantly, “what are
you going to do about it?”
What she really meant, but
could not bring herself to ask
was, “Are you going to tell
Daddy?”
“What I should do,” I told
her, “is take that crupper-strap,
tan your behind with it and then
sack Wonga.”
Her eyes blazed and the flush
spread from her face right down
to the open V of her shirt.
“You wouldn’t dare!” she
gasped.
For a second or so I thought
she looked like a very small
replica of Carson about to burst
into one of his rages. It must
have been the flush, coupled
with the expression, because
Carson had a broad face with
heavy jowls, whereas his
daughter had an oval face end-
ing in a pointed chin.
The look of blazing indigna-
tion faded almost at once.
Before I had time to answer she
put her hand on my horse’s
neck, and said pleadingly, “Bob,
you won’t blame Wonga, will
you? It’s not his fault, really it
isn’t. I kept at him and at him
till he gave in and swapped
horses with me . . . Didn’t I,
Wonga? I nagged you into it,
didn’t I?”
I admired her for taking all
the blame, but I was not giving
Wonga a free pardon. I
abused him for his weakness,
told him he had no brains and
no sense of responsibility. I
pointed out that Julia might
easily have been smashed-up,
and I drew a vivid picture of
what would have happened had
they met Carson instead of me.
To all of which Wonga replied
gravely, “Yair, boss. That’s
right.”
In the end I snapped, “Oh,
shut-up and get on your horses.
The right ones this time.”
I helped Julia shorten her
stirrup-leathers while Wonga
lengthened his, and we all rode
home together.
and I went in to
Dilargo to collect the new
car the following morning. Like
a pair of guilty schoolboys, we
sneaked off in our working-
clothes, Carson muttering some-
thing to his wife about going to
look at some pear in the bullock-
paddock.
On the way to town I asked
him about the prickly-pear
conditions. Like most cattle-
properties in Queensland, Yaka-
parni was owned by the Crown
and leased on a long-term basis,
subject to certain conditions.
When the pear began to spread
alarmingly the Government
made the clearing of certain
areas one of the conditions.
“I’m supposed to keep the
open country free of pear,” he
admitted. “Supposed to clean
some of the scrub country, too.
but that’s just damned ridicu-
lous. If I put twenty men on
they wouldn’t clean it up in a
hundred years.”
I pointed out that there was
quite a bit of scattered pear in
the open country, especially
along some of the creeks, and
he said resignedly, “Yes, I
know. I’ll have to put someone
on to poison it this year, but
it’s hard to get anyone to do it.
The poison takes all the skin
off their hands.” He swerved
violently to avoid a rut, and
added defiantly, “But I’m not
going to touch the stuff in the
scrubs. Damned if I am. Just
waste of time and money.”
“If it’s one of the conditions,”
I pointed out, “you’ll have to do
something about it.”
“Damn and blast it, Bob,” he
swore, “it’s bad enough to have
the ranger talking like that with-
out you starting. He’ll be along
in a month or two wanting to
know why I haven’t done this
and why I haven’t done that.
I dunno why he can’t mind his
own business.”
Instead of pointing out that
the Crown-lands ranger would
be minding his own business if
he demanded results I changed
the subject . . .
The new car was a roomy
tourer, a sleek thing of glossy
paint, gleaming nickel-plating
and that fascinating but indes-
cribable smell peculiar to all new
cars.
Carson, immensely proud of it,
declared there was not a car
in the district to come up to it,
but once we got it untrucked he
would have nothing to do with
it. All my efforts to get him to
drive it were of no avail. He
simply wouldn’t listen to me.
“Do you want me to smash it
up before they it?” he
asked. “You drive it home, and
I’ll follow you.”
I refused to be the one to
break the good news, so in the
end we compromised. He drove
on ahead in his old tilly, and I
followed with the new car.
The three of them were wait-
ing at the front-gate when I
drove up, and somehow I doubt
whether Mrs. Carson and Julia
were as surprised as they pre-
tended to be. After all, Carson
had made the purchase by mail,
and as car-agents usually adver-
tise themselves by their
envelopes and Mrs. Carson was
always on hand to sort the mail
when Dan brought it up from
the mailbox she must have had
an idea that something was
afoot.
However, both she and Julia
were most enthusiastic, and we
all had to go for a drive at once.
When we got back it was time
for Mrs. Carson to prepare the
evening meal while Carson
watered his vegetables.
Carson thought it would be a
good idea if I took Julia out
for half-an-hour and started
teaching her how to drive.
I didn’t think it was a good
idea at all, and I said so before
I even commenced my instruc-
tion.
“What’s the good of you
learning to drive now?” I asked
Julia. “You’ll be going back to
school soon, and it will be years
before you’re allowed to take
out a licence.”
She stared at me for a moment
before asking, “What makes
you think that? How old do
you think I am?”
I had never given the matter
a thought, but when she put it to
me, I looked her over carefully,
weighing her self-assurance
against her lack of height. Had
she been a filly I wouldn’t have
been fooled, but I really knew
very little about schoolgirls.
“About twelve-and-a-half,” I
said. “Or thirteen.”
She looked at me with positive
hatred. “You’re frightfully
smart, aren’t you?” she said, in
her most superior accent. “I’m
almost seventeen. Now do you
think we might get on with the
driving-lesson ? ”
I was so staggered that I
moved out of the driver’s seat
without further argument.
TPHE rain started that weekend,
1 and we had moderate falls
every day for the next week.
Carson began by being most
jubilant. The rain had come in
time, we were in for another
good season.
By the end of the week his
outlook was gloomily pessi-
mistic. The sky was clearing,
and though we’d had fair grass-
rain there had not been enough
to run the creeks. Unless
we got some really heavy
falls soon we’d be in
for a bad year. He remem-
bered one season like this:
same conditions as this exactly;
no early storms, nothing but this
light, drizzling type of rain in
January, and before the end of
the year the cattle were dying
like flies.
Things could be even worse
this year, with the place over-
stocked with breeders. He
didn’t like the look of things at
all.
I sincerely hoped he was
wrong, but as the weeks went by
without further rain I began to
feel as pessimistic as he was. I
knew nothing of the carrying-
capacity of the property in a bad
year, but if we were, as Carson
said, overstocked with breeders
I thought we should be trying to
sell some.
“No,” Carson said when I
suggested it to him. “There’s
no market for breeders at
present and we’d have to prac-
tically give ’em away.”
I quoted the old saying about
thirty-bob in the bank being
better than a dead cow in a
waterhole, but he only said, “We
may get the jain yet. The cattle
are in good condition, and
there’s a nice green shoot in the
grass.”
All of which was quite true.
The country looked fresh and
green again, and the gloss on the
coats of the cattle proved they
were feeling the benefit of the
fresh grass. Only time would
show whether Carson’s decision
was the right one. The price of
cattle might go up or it might
come down, we might be on the
verge of a good season or a
THE CHALLENGE
In vain the arrogant mountain
flings
His challenge to my gazing face,
Vaunting his proud and ancient
race,
His kinship with the dawn of
things.
Is it a challenge ? or a leer
Wrinkling hi s age - old
countenance ?
Or does he dart a pitying glance
Illumined by a sliding tear?
Pity or envy for my brief
But sparkling life, so swiftly
passed
Between a first hour and a last
Yet deeply stirred by joy and
grief,
While his ten-million ages have
But chipped a handsbreath from
his crest,
Furrowed his hoary cheek, and
pressed
Into his ribs a paltry cave.
No more, old friend, my foot
shall try
Your giddy cliffs, your falls of
rock,
Or with unhallowed hobnails
shock
Your imperturbability.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts'' no. 25*
First General Post Office, Sydney
The First Postage Stamp
In the year of Queen Victoria’s accession,
1837, a reformer with a bright idea
announced that if Great Britain cut the
cost of delivering a letter in half, the Post
Office would make more money.
He published a pamphlet to show how he arrived
at such an unorthodox conclusion, which seemed
to defy the laws of economics as then understood.
His name was Roland Hill, who fought an almost
lone-handed fight for penny postage.
In spite of derision, he continued his cam-
paign, and succeeded in getting a Commission
appointed to examine his proposals, at which he
gave extended evidence. The report of this
Commission was a triumph for Roland Hill; it
reported that letters of less than one ounce en-
closed in a stamped envelope be delivered within
a radius of twelve miles of the G.P.O, for one
penny.
While the British Parliament was con-
sidering this report, a copy of Hill s pamphlet
and the Commissions report reached the Post-
master, James Raymond, at Sydney, who, having
no Parliament to consider, acted upon his own
initiative.
He instructed an engraver, William Wilson, to
make a steel die, embossed some sheets of
writing paper with it, and sent a sample to the
Colonial Secretary for submission to the Governor,
“in my opinion,” he wrote, “a penny will com-
pensate for the paper and delivery, while so
low a rate will induce an influx of letters that
will ultimately replenish the revenue.”
He had been completely sold on Roland
Hill’s idea. Governor Gipps was also im-
pressed. “Let the experiment be tried,’ he
minuted the submission, “but the price must be
fixed at lid., or Is. 3d. per dozen."
So, on 14th November, 1838, the Government
Gazette announced to the public at large that
letters prepaid in this way would be delivered
free ; where the money had to be collected by
the postman, the charge would be 2d., as usual.
Two years later, the price was reduced to Id.
These postage stamps were the first to be issued
in the British Empire, and, for general delivery,
in the world, and preceded the issue of stamps
in Great Britain by two years.
The stamp was of a neat design, slightly
larger than a florin, having the words "General
Post Office, New South Wales” in an outer
circle—the centre being occupied with the Royal
Arms and motto: "Dieu et mon droit” and the
single word "Sydney,”
The letter sheets, with the stamp impressed,
which when written on were folded over and
sealed with a wafer, continued in use for twelve
years. Many thousands were issued, but they
have become extremely rare and valuable.
On Ist January, 1850, -adhesive stamps were
first used in N.S.W. These were not perforated
and had to be separated by being cut with
scissors. It was not until 1860 that perforated
stamps were used, and the story is that perfora-
tion was an idea thought up by an old lady in
Tasmania who ran a sheet of stamps through her
unthreaded sewing machine.
When stamp collecting became a craze,
copies of the first N.S.W. embossed stamp
covers were much sought for, and big prices
were paid for them. To cash in on this, the
Post Office resurrected the old steel die, which
had been used for sealing mail bags, and printed
quite a number in the 1870’s. These re-issues
were eagerly purchased, and it was a long time
before it was discovered that they could be
detected from the originals by being embossed
on a folded sheet of paper, giving two impressions
of the die instead of one.
All Colonies used their own postage stamps
until the first Commonwealth stamp was issued
in 1913 —a Kangaroo on a map of
Australia; this was followed at the
end of the same year by one
bearing the head of George V..
The popular Kookaburra 6d. -
stamp was issued in 1914.
Philatelists were quick to
discover variations in colour,
design, perforations and
watermarks, but the public
at large simply sticks on a
stamp and trusts the Post
Office to do the rest, without
bothering about variants.
•POST
as
*os
3
POOTfI
Early embossed
Stamp
First in Quality First in Favour
CHATEAU TANU NBA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
*Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application
HF2S
drought. At that stage we had
no means of telling. But one
thing we did know —many a
man had been stampeded into
selling his cattle cheaply by the
fear of drought or a falling
market.
CHAPTER XVI
MICK, Steve and Duffy were
back with us, and we
were mustering from the home-
stead, giving the newly-broken
ponies their first taste of real
work.
Julia came out with us every
day, and though I disliked the
idea of having a girl with the
mustering-team I had to admit
she was a big help to us.
Her affections, I noted, were
quickly transferred from Wonga
to Mick. In their constant hope
that a beast would break and
give them an excuse for a wild
gallop they were twin souls.
I reproved them both for it,
Mick for deliberately allowing
cattle to get a start instead of
forestalling them, and Julia for
taking unnecessary risks.
Mick looked sheepish and said
nothing, but Julia said, “Oh,
stop fussing, Bob. Why are you
always worrying about me get-
ting a buster?”
“I wouldn’t care if you broke
your neck,” I told her. “Only
I promised your old man I’d
look after you. Now get around
to the far side of the mob and
tell Duffy I want him.”
She rode under a low limb,
snapped off a short dead branch,
and trotted away.
It was Mick who originated
the method, now used by all of
us, of attracting Duffy’s atten-
tion. Instead of riding up to
him and telling him I wanted
him, the messenger broke off
a handy stick, rode quietly up
behind Duffy and hurled the
stick at his horse’s rump. The
result, particularly if Duffy
happened to be riding a young
or touchy horse, was often spec-
tacular. Fortunately Duffy was
a good horseman. He also
rapidly developed an extra sense,
so that it became just about
impossible to surprise him.
We finished the home-muster
the day before Julia went back
to school. Carson, who still
refused to drive the new car,
drove her in to Dilargo in the
tilly while we got fresh horses.
We were about to start wean-
ing—a long, tiring business, apt
to be very hard on horses. The
pattern throughout the muster
would be two days mustering,
drafting-off the weaners, and
dipping, and every third day set
aside for bringing the weaners
in to the homestead.
We enjoyed the mustering, but
we all disliked the slogging foot-
work of drafting in the yards.
Every stray bullock, every steer
and every calf old enough to be
taken away from its mother had
to be blocked and put in one
yard, while the cows and calves
went on down the crush and
through the dip.
“Went” is not the right word ;
they had to be forced. The
cows had to be prodded in the
ribs with sticks, shouted at and
often manhandled into the dip.
A pall of acrid dust hung over
the yards. It covered us in a
powdery film, clogging our
throats and nostrils, clinging to
our lips until we licked it off
and spat it out, or washed it
down with a swig from the
waterbag.
“Seventy-five per cent, cow-
dung,” Steve declared, clearing
his throat and spitting before
taking a drink.
It was no exaggeration.
Covered inches deep with years
of cattle droppings ground to a
fine powder by countless tramp-
ling hooves, the floor of the
drafting-yard would have made
excellent fertiliser.
The only relieving touches
came when some bad-tempered
old cow went on the prod and
forced a man to leap for the
fence. Mick really loved that,
even when he was the victim.
Not content with sidestepping a
charging cow, he could seldom
resist the temptation of teasing
the infuriated animal with his
hat in an effort to induce her
to have a second try. Always
cheerful, he seemed to reach the
peak of happiness when his life
was in danger.
When it was too dark to
distinguish one beast from
another we knocked off, went
for ,a swim in the waterhole, and
ate our evening meal by the light
of the campfire.
We should have been too tired
for anything except sleep; but,
instead of turning in, the boys
formed an orchestra. Steve and
Duffy each produced a mouth-
organ, and in spite of his deaf-
ness Duffy played beautifully.
Wonga played a gumleaf better
than any man I have ever heard ;
I am not much of a judge of
music, but to my untrained ear
that trio produced delightful
melody.
Until Mick joined in. Mick
was not the type to be left out
of anything. With knife and
fork and the petrol-tin we used
for boiling the corned-beef he
proceeded to accompany them.
The fact that his timing was all
out worried him not at all.
Volume was all that counted.
Worse still, if the tunes were
even vaguely familiar to him he
sang, or rather he shouted, the
words with a raucous, off-key
gusto.
The combined din then
drowned the noise from the
yards, where lonely weaners
were bawling desperately for
their mothers, and anxious
mothers bellowed back in
answer.
Once Wonga stopped playing
and stared at Mick as if
fascinated. “Marvellous!” he
exclaimed. “Bloody marvellous!”
Mick finished the verse, drag-
ging the last word out on a com-
pletely false note, before asking,
“What’s so flamin’ marvellous?”
“You,” Wonga told him. “You
go up and down the scale, hittin’
the wrong notes goin’ up and
cornin’ down. It’s marvellous
you don’t sort of fluke it and hit
the right one sometimes.”
ON the second night we had
nearly two-hundred bawling
weaners shut in the yard and
about half that number of
mothers walking up and down
outside the fence bellowing
lustily for their offspring.
The noise was deafening, a
constant reminder of the trouble
awaiting us in the morning.
Two - hundred - head would
normally be a small mob for five
men, but the mob in that yard
was not normal. With the ex-
ception of a few bullocks and
older steers it was a yardful of
dynamite awaiting the oppor-
tunity to explode. And we were
all well aware that the explosion
would occur the moment we
dropped the rails. They would
fizz out of the yard, not as a
united mob, but as a collection
of lonely, thirsty individual
youngsters, each one determined
to race off hell-for-leather in an
effort to find its mother.
Attempting to block that first
mad rush would have been about
as foolishly futile as squeezing
a lighted hunger in an attempt
to stop it from exploding. And
then there were the waiting
mothers. We could, and would,
run them well away before we
dropped the rails, but the more
determined ones would be back
almost as soon as we were.
“Whacko! ” Mick exclaimed
as we mounted our horses in the
first cold light of dawn. “This
is gonna be good.”
I didn’t agree with him. It
was my responsibility to keep
weaners and mothers apart and
get the weaners safely into the
small holding-paddock at the
homestead. I had made my plans
and given each man his instruc-
tions, but so many things could
go wrong. Carson admitted he
considered himself lucky if he
got eighty per cent, of his
weaners in. With a team of
keen, experienced stockmen I
hoped to do much better.
No effort on our part could
block the first wild rush, but
we could at least guide it. Mick
was to take one wing and Steve
the other. Wonga and Duffy
would back-up while I stayed
in the tail, where I could more-
or-less keep an eye on every-
thing.
“Let them gallop and keep
them going straight along the
car-track for home,” I told the
boys. “When we get to the open
patch about half-a-mile down
we’ll ring them from Mick’s
side.”
We mustered-up every cow
within sight or sound of the
yards, ran them away at a smart
gallop and raced back to the
sliprails. Speed was everything
now. Get the rails down and the
weaners out before the first
mothers came bellowing back.
There was a. feverish urgency
in the air as we hurled the heavy
rails aside and remounted. Like
jockeys lining-up at the starting-
barrier the four boys backed
their horses into the gap while
I rode into the yard to make
sure the last weaner came out.
“Right,” I called. “Let ’em
go!”
They went. In a swirling cloud
of dust they scrambled madly
through the opening and raced
for freedom. And weaving
through the ironbark saplings,
ducking under low quinine-
bushes, we raced with them,
intent only on keeping them
together.
Mick and Steve with the
leaders were opt of sight in the
first few seconds, but for the
moment I had no time to worry
about them. The tail had to
be kept going in the same direc-
tion and at the same pace as the
leaders, and many of the weaners
in the tail were beginning to
realise that they were galloping
in the wrong direction. Their
mothers were behind them.
Already I could hear the first
faint maternal bellow far back
in the dust of our passing.
It was at times like this that
Mick shone. He had no need
to look for an outlet for his
boundless energy ; it was all here,
laid-on for him. To hold the
mob together called for furious
riding, to swing and ring it
called for timing and judgment.
He swung the leaders just as I
burst into the patch- of open
country with the tail dragging
dangerously far back. You
could never tell beforehand how
a mob of weaners would react.
Sometimes they all maintained
the same mad pace and at others
the tail lagged until the mob
became too strung-out to be
manageable.
Mick swung them to the left,
and one after another we fell-in
behind him, forcing the mob
round in a complete circle, ring-
ing them. It was like a gigantic
Catherine-wheel, the cattle spin-
ning round and round while we
raced in a wider circle ready to
turn back the flying sparks.
And all the time we were
soothing them; calling “Whoa,
Bally, whoa. Steady, Bally,
steady.”
We had to ease the pace down
to a walk and get them manage-
able before they became over-
heated.
We scarcely had them steadied
when the first old cow came
trotting towards us, bellowing
lustily as she ran. I caught a
glimpse of others as I waved
Duffy. His light weight and
splendid horsemanship made
him the best man for the tiring
and unenviable job of keeping
the mothers away. Our fast
work was nearly over ; his was
only starting, for as fast as he
(Continued on next page)


Men in Wool
sz.
/
/
•w
X
m
%
DW23
the jackeroo ..
. . the apprentice to the grazing industry, the embryo station
manager and perhaps, some day, grower of his own wool.
Bob (we’ll call him Wilks) started that way on a 400,000 acre
station on the Darling, when the river fleet paddled the wool down
to Morgan, returning with decks stacked high with station
merchandise from fencing wire to stud rams from Bungaree.
Bob later drew a 20,000 acre treeless western plain, long denuded
by rabbits and by lopping for starving sheep. He collected
Mulga seed, raised 10,000 young trees, planted them all over his
paddocks, shut up areas to regenerate herbage, cleared rabbits,
and, after ten years in partnership, Bob and Nature are growing
one of the best clips in the west.
Dalgetys is proud to have been able to help Bob in his outstanding
achievement.
M)alg&tys
Always Dependable
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
got one cow turned and headed
away another would appear and
come bellowing towards us.
But that was Duffy’s problem.
At the moment ours was to stop
the weaners from ringing, and
get them headed in the right
direction at a reasonable pace;
often a difficult and touchy
operation.
As Wonga once said, “Any
mug can get ’em ringin’, but it
takes a good man to stop ’em.”
TN this case Steve stopped
them. A bunch of the bigger
steers on the outside of the ring
swung wider than usual and he
forced his horse quickly into the
gap, turning them out from the
main mob. Still doing our best
to soothe them down, we urged
others in behind the offshoot.
The Catherine-wheel had
stopped spinning, and we had
the mob trotting in the right
direction. Soon we would have
them eased-down to a walk, and
the big danger would be over.
Being short-handed we might
lose one or two determined
weaners or an odd cow might
escape Duffy and link up with
us, but we had the mob under
control.
As it happened, Duffy had
more than he could handle that
morning. The oncoming mothers
were attacking on a broad front,
and he simply could not cope
with them all. I swung back
to help him, and a moment later
an old cow slipped out behind
him. He wheeled smartly, his
horse coming round in little
more than its own length, and
bore down on her.
If he had allowed her to join
the mob we would have been
better off, but in the heat of the
moment he was not to know
that. The old girl knew where
her calf was, and nothing was
going to keep her away from it.
She came on in a frantic burst of
speed ; Duffy closing with her
at every stride. He was shoulder-
ing her, forcing her away with
the weight of his horse, when
the tightly locked trio bit our
tail-enders at a gallop, scattering
the startled weaners.
In a split-second order turned
to chaos, and when we finally got
the mess straightened-out we had
lost six weaners. _ We had also
acquired the old cow, now walk-
ing contentedly along while a
great lump of a steer with horns
nearly four inches long did his
stupid best to suck her.
For some reason it was always
like that. The older the calf
the more determined the mother
was not to part with it.
I didn’t reprove Duffy. It
was nearly an hour before I got
close enough to speak to him,
and he still looked miserably
ashamed. The mob was walking
quietly along the car-track then,
with Wonga in front and the
lead-bullocks following closely.
The old cow and her overgrown
calf were right back in the tail
“You can drop back to ine
tail and keep an eye on your
cow,” I told Duffy “Run her
off as soon as you see a chance.
I’ll mind her calf.”
There was no need to tell him
to do it without upsetting the
mob again. The look of grati-
tude on his face told me that.
The wretched cow had made a
fool of him once. She would
not do it the second time. He
had to wait some time for his
chance, but when it came he
made no mistake: The cow
paused to crop a bunch of grass,
leaving a gap of about four-
feet between herself and her calf.
Before either of them realised
what was happening Duffy’s
horse was in the gap, forcing the
calf to leap into the mob and
the cow to bound in the other
direction. The old girl sprinted
twenty yards before it dawned
on her that she had been tricked,
that once more she had been
separated from her calf. She
twisted and turned, first one way
and then the other; but, when-
ever she turned, Duffy’s horse
was on her shoulder, pressing her
back and forcing her to keep
galloping.
I wish I could have watched it
all, because it was an exhibition
of horsemanship and stock-work
at its best. Unfortunately my
attention was very quickly taken-
up with the cursed calf.
Duffy returned as we were
putting the mob through the
weaner-paddock gate. He was
grinning with pleasure.
“We fixed ’er that time, boss,”
he said, patting his horse’s neck.
“He’s a bloody beaut little horse,
this one. You could win a camp-
draft with ’im anywhere.”
All Duffy’s horses were super-
horses, according to him, and
had I shown my disapproval of
his earlier effort by running the
old cow off myself he would
have been as deeply hurt for his
horse as himself.
CHAPTER XVH
'T'HE weaning went on like
A that, with only small varia-
tions. The mobs varied in size
and behavior, but even the
mildest of them had enough
initial sting to satisfy Mick.
We yarded each mob in the
home-yards, dipped them,
steadied them on the water in
the small holding-paddock, and
returned to the camp for more.
There were weekend breaks,
and breaks when we stayed at
the homestead overnight to kill,
or to run-in fresh horses.
When Carson brought our
camp-gear in from the Brigalow
Yards for the last time we had
fifteen-hundred-head crammed
into the small holding-paddock ;
fifteen-hundred children waiting
to be educated.
Their education, a job known
as “tailing the weaners,” would
begin at once. Even Carson
admitted the need for that,
although he had not done it for
years. Every day for a week
we would drive them out and
tail them on good feed. At sun-
down we would yard them for
the night, run them through the
drafting-yards before breakfast,
and then tail them out again for
the day.
By the end of the week they
would not only have forgotten
their mothers; they would be
tractable and easy to work, both
in the yards and on camp.
All the first day they were
restless, so that we were kept
constantly on the move, turning
them back and steadying them
down. The most trivial incident,
like the snapping of a stick or
the snort of a horse, was enough
to start the whole mob running.
Even the sight of a man dis-
mounting served as an excuse for
a general panic.
“Yardin’ this mob tonight,”
Wonga prophesied, “is goin’ to
be like herdin’ a mob of goannas
into a holler-log.”
He was not far wrong. We
approached the yard with them
in a tightly packed mass in spite
of our efforts to make them
string-out.
Carson, knowing we were
short-handed for such a mob,
had very nobly offered to come
down to give us a hand with the
first yarding. When I thanked
him and told him we would be
able to manage he looked
relieved and said he’d send old
Dan down to help.
I was not very keen on the
idea, but I said nothing. Dan
was all right for yarding his
milkers, but he had never been a
stockman and was long past the
age for fast work.
“Keep the leaders moving,” I
had said repeatedly. “If we can
keep them headed for the yard
the rest will follow.”
We could not keep the leaders
headed for the yard. They kept
doubling back along the wings,
and the best we could claim was
that we had the whole churning
mob moving in the right direc-
tion.
“Stay in the tail and keep it
moving,” I told old Dan when he
arrived, mounted on the night
horse. “And if things go wrong
keep right out of the way till we
get them sorted out again.”
“Don’t worry about me,
mister,” he answered. “I can
look after meself. They’re only
a mob of poddies, anyhow.” The
old chap was full of confidence.
Somehow I was not, although
we had certain factors in our
favor. There were very few
trees in the approaches to the
yard, and two stout wings led
out like welcoming arms for
nearly two-hundred yards from
the entrance. Once we got the
weaners inside those wings their
means of escape would be
greatly restricted.
We seemed to have them mov-
ing in nicely, and it was begin-
ning to look like a tame yarding
when the lead doubled back. In
less than a minute the entire mob
had turned, so that, instead of
riding behind a mob of red
rumps, we were confronted with
a sea of white faces, and every
face was looking for a chance
to escape.
Odd ones fizzed out, forcing
us to swing wide in an effort to
hold them. We were wheeling,
propping and shouting then, but
being steadily forced to give
ground, crowded back by weight
of numbers.
“Pull back and take a swing
at them,” I yelled.
We raced to one side and then,
one behind the other, we spurred
our horses across the face of
the mob, yelling like maniacs as
we galloped. That turned them.
They gave way, scampering with
us and turning inwards.
“Hi!” we yelled. “Hi! Yi!
Yah!”
'T’HE dust rose in a cloud, hid-
■*- ing the entrance to the yards,
but not concealing the unwel-
come truth that the weaners were
ringing. Round and round they
went in a mad, tightly-packed
wheel, with the dust billowing
above them and rising high in
the still evening air.
And right in the middle of that
whirling mob was old Dan,
feverishly trying to retain his
seat on the panic-stricken night
horse.
God knows how he got there.
We had swung the mob around
him in our excitement, I suppose.
But the important thing was that
his life was in danger. If he
became unseated he would be
trampled to death before we
could do a thing to save him.
With his usual recklessness
and quick thinking, Mick saved
him. He forced his horse inside
the outer circle, causing a stream
of weaners to fly off at a tangent.
We slipped in behind him and
watched the wheel unwind itself
and stream helter-skelter across
the flat.
“Block ’em now!” I told the
boys. “I’ll see if Dan’s all right.”
It was impossible to see him
through the dust-cloud, but I
trotted into the thick of it just
in time to see the night horse
THE SHELL
N.S.W.
He comes to this room to find his love
and sees a white shell move.
Of morning and lacquer and water-shadow
a tide flows in upon the flowers
and the shell beside their bowl.
A goldfish flies beyond the window,
down, down through its deepening pool.
Breasting a tide of dark and light,
hearing inexplicable wings
and seeing a shell turn to a flower
under seas where no seas are,
a lover says the strangest things
to his girl whose face could be that flower,
is something just as near, yet far.
“Stay, like a flower made from a shell.”
Swung by the tide she moves away.
Nothing is ever held quite still.
MARGARET IRVIN.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... «L*i 21-
y early Subscription « 2216
NOTHING EQUALS
■ wuntrs mm mma I
warm ray
TRIPLE PURPOSE
SLOW COMBUSTION
AIR CONDITIONING
ROOM HEATER
Latest Model (No. 2A) has
over 5,000 cu. ft. heating
capacity, and gives full view
of blazing fire through open
or closed front. Modern
artistic appearance finished
in cream and walnut porce-
lain enamel and reasonably
priced.
ms
mmmmm
zsmmm
Owing to luei saving the "Wannray ACTUALLY
COSTS NOTHING
■MM■
%
m
I i
H
-
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces. •
Model No. 3 Super
Deluxe
Large Capacity Over
8,000 cu. ft.
Special large firebox far
long burning without
attention.
Tfv<r;i large hotplate for
cooking.
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES»S^ E r sSm
OF PRICE!
WARM RAY
HEATING
TUBES
%. s
The secret of Warmray’s efficiency is toe I®**“**^
Tubes (illustrated above), which are built e Mrtnw _
The air in the room passes through these tubes ““"JJ
ously, thus maintaining an even warmth in every P
the room.
BURN WOOD pREAMjOT pWCTENCT
AND CLEANLINESS
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and Hardware
Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Dbtributo*s»
Chains House, Martin Place, Sydney,
Telegrams: “Warmray.” 8L2Z17.
If unobtainable locally phone,
illustrated Brochure and name of nearest agents .
spin sharply round and deposit
the old fellow at its feet. For-
tunately he was not hurt, though
he swore his shins were broken
by the pressure of the mob. He
disproved that claim by scram-
bling to his feet and catching his
horse.
“I always said that team of
yours was mad,” he muttered
indignantly. “Tryin’ to kill a
man, that’s wot they was up to.
Just to get a laugh out of it. And
I know who was at the bottom
of it. That bloody cacklin’
Mick! I’ll give ’im cackle.”
He was trembling violently
with a mixture of indignation
and relief at finding himself still
alive.
I think sheer terror had kept
him in the saddle, and once the
danger passed he simply relaxed
and fell off.
“Better get out of the way,”
I told him. “We’ll be bringing
them back in a few minutes.”
“I’m goin’,” I heard him say
as I raced off. “I wouldn’t stay
with this turnout for quids.”
On the second attempt we
yarded the weaners in a style
seldom seen anywhere but on the
motion-picture screen. They
started off at a canter and we
kept them at a canter, steering
them for the open sliprails and
forcing the leaders through in
the semi-darkness before they
had time to realise what was
happening. It was not a
manoeuvre to be proud of, but
at least we got them yarded with-
out the loss of a single beast.
“Blime!” Mick said, as we
leaped off to put the rails up.
“We’d go well on the pitchers,
wouldn’t we?”
“Had a bit of trouble, eh?”
Carson asked when we rode up
to the house and dismounted in
the dark.
“A bit,” I admitted. “But
they’re all in now.”
I TOOK the dogs out next day,
and, though they caused
several minor rushes in their
enthusiasm, the weaners soon got
used to them.
Right from the start the differ-
ent natures of the two dogs
showed-up. Sneezer had dignity
and the courage of a lion. His
mate was a larrikin who believed
that discretion was the better
part of valor.
Julie had for some reason
called him Boozer, and the name
stuck. It certainly suited him.
Sneezer turned-out to be a
“noser,” a rare and valuable
asset when dealing with scrub-
bers. Quiet cattle he was con-
tent to work by nipping them on
the hocks in the ordinary way,
but if a beast gave serious
trouble or started to bail-up he
invariably secured a hold on its
nose. Even the wildest scrub bull
would surrender and seek the
protection of the mob after that
treatment.
Boozer was a heeler, with no
ambition to try any other hold.
He knew which was the danger-
ous end of a beast and he stayed
away from it.
When we started to use them
on scrubbers we soon found that
no charging beast could scare
Sneezer. He dodged its wilder
rushes and stayed in front until
he got his teeth into its nose.
Nor could a charging beast scare
Boozer—for the very simple
reason that he was never in the
firing-line. He lurked in the
background, ears pricked expect-
antly and pink tongue lolling
from a mouth that positively
leered, until his mate had the
raging animal fully occupied ,
then he rushed in and grabbed it
by the hock.
The larrikin in Boozer
showed-up in a score of ways.
He quickly learned that the
exciting pastime of chasing
kangaroo-rats and goannas
meant punishment, but he could
never resist the temptation of
flushing them.
He had an incurable habit of
sneaking gently up to a
kangaroo-rat’s nest, and then
suddenly pouncing on top of the
nest. When the startled rat
leaped out and raced away
Boozer looked at Sneezer with
such an obvious leer that we
could almost hear him saying,
“Go on, Sneezer, you chase it!”
If Sneezer fell for the tempta-
tion and had to be punished,
Boozer fairly gloated over him,
bouncing around with a wide
grin that plainly said, “What a
mug you were to fall for that!
until I felt inclined to use my
belt on him as the real culprit.
BY the third evening we had
the weaners stringing into the
yards like a mob of milkers.
With two eager dogs weaving
about on the tail nothing dared
to break away or even hang
b^ck
“About time the blasted dogs
did something to pay for all the
beef they’ve been eating,
Carson growled that night.
After two days without any-
thing to growl about he simply
had to find an excuse, however
trivial. There was also a little
more behind it, I discovered
later. Mrs. Carson had been
elected president of the C.W.A.,
completely routing Mrs. Greer.
From now on she would have
to attend every meeting, and I
gathered she had worked in a
little subtle propaganda on the
unsuitability of the old tilly as
a presidential car, because
Carson clicked his teeth loudly
for some time before asking:
“Do you think the boys could
manage the weaners without you
for an hour or two tomorrow,
Bob?”
“Easily,” I assured him.
“What do you want me to do?”
There was another rattle of
moving dentures.
“I thought I might get you
to teach me to drive the new
car. I’ll have to drive the missus
in every time there’s a blasted
meeting now, and there’s no
sense in wearing the tilly out
when the other car’s standing in
the garage doing nothing.”
Carson was not a good pupil.
He disliked the idea of driving
anything except his old tilly, and
he approached the job of learn-
ing a new technique with a
fidgety impatience and an
absolute lack of confidence. His
gear-changing, alternating
between timidity and ruthless-
ness, produced some appalling
noises, and at each grinding of
gears he let the car wander oft
the road while he peered at the
floor, apparently searching for
shattered cogs or other mutilated
bits of machinery. Over and
over again we went through the
drill, until at last he stopped the
car with a jerk that almost
hurled me through the wind-
screen.
“How the bloody hell can I
learn anything with you nagging
at me all the time?” he
demanded. “Change seats with
me and drive home. I’ll take
it out and teach myself this
afternoon.”
We changed seats, and as I
drove off he growled, “I dunno.
Damned if I do. Why do they
have to stick these newfangled
things in cars? There was noth-
ing wrong with the old Ford
gear-change. A man knew where
he was with that. I’ve a good
mind to write and tell the makers
of this one what I think.”
I only smiled. Carson was
always threatening to write to
various manufacturers and tell
them what he thought of their
goods. A broken axe-handle, a
chisel that lost its edge too
quickly, or even a nail that bent
when he was driving it had all
inspired abusive letters to
makers. The letters were nevei
written, because Carson did all
his writing at night, and long
before then he had invariably
cooled-down and completely for-
gotten what had stirred him up.
Once he almost put his
thoughts on paper. He was bor-
ing a new ironbark gate-head
when the bit jammed and broke.
With only a very moderate and
half-hearted curse he removed
the broken bit, fitted a new one
in the brace and resumed boring.
The second bit jammed in the
same hole. Carson jerked at it
impatiently and broke it.
He really let himself go then.
“That’s the finish,” he roared.
“That’s the end of it. Cursed
useless, blasted lumps of hoop-
iron! 11l write to the makers
straight away. I’ll tell them what
I think of their infernal bits.”
He hurled the brace at the
gate-head and stalked off to the
house, muttering as he went. Ihe
garden gate slammed behind
him, and he strode purposefully
along the veranda. Outside his
office he paused and poured him-
self a drink from the waterbag
hanging there. He drank two
pannikins of water, and then
came back to search for another
bit. ,
“You know, Bob,” he said
conversationally, “one of these
days I will write and tell ’em
what I think.”
He took his wife in to Dilargo
for the meeting, driving the new
car with a «sort of grim deter-
mination. He never lost that
attitude to it, nor did he ever
completely master the gear-
changing. On several occasions
I felt like telling him he should
write to the makers and compli-
ment them on the remarkably
rugged construction of the gear-
box.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE big muster was over, and
everything, or nearly every-
thing, was in its place. The
bullocks were in the bullock-
paddock, the weaners in the
weaner-paddock and the breeders
out bush. The few weaners that
had escaped us were out bush
also, but there were not enough
of them to worry about. Only the
scrubs still remained an untidy
mystery.
The stockmen would have
been paid-off until the ticks
began to worry the cattle had we
not received a visit from the
Crown-lands Ranger. He
stayed with us for a week, made
a thorough inspection of the
property, and made no secret
of the fact that he was displeased
with Carson’s attitude towards
the pear.
“It’s no good saying one thing
and meaning another, Mr.
Carson,” he said. “Unless you
get all your outlying pear
cleaned-up and make a good
showing in the scrubs in the next
few months I’ll have to haul you
up before the Land Court.”
Before he left we had all
changed our occupation from
stockmen to pear-poisoners, and
the Batsons were back on the
payroll, making a showing with
the pear in the scrub.
We hated the work, hated the
dull monotony of riding quiet
old horses that did not object to
being burdened with bottles of
poison in split-bags, loathed the
way the poison ate through split-
bags and clothes, besides taking
the skin off our hands, and
detested the stabbers that either
allowed the poison to spurt all
over everything in the vicinity of
a pear-plant or else clogged com-
pletely.
One of the worst features of
the work was the feeling that
we were getting nowhere and
achieving nothing. The pear was
spreading faster than we could
destroy it. It all seemed such a
futile waste of time that I
scarcely had the heart to reprove
the boys for loafing on the job.
Emus, crows and other birds
were eating the fruit and scatter-
ing the seeds over the entire run,
and the knowledge that as you
poisoned one bush a dozen moie
would be springing up had a
bad influence on everyone’s
approach to the job.
Nevertheless both Carson and
I were now aware that unless a
very determined effort was made
to check it the pear would
eventually take possession ol
Yakaparni and every cattle-
property in the district.
The ranger made that pain-
fully clear when he said, “It’s
not merely a matter of appeasing
the Land Court, Mr. Carson. It’s
a question of who is going to
be in possession of the property
in fifteen or twenty years’ time.
You or the prickly pear? I’ve
already seen thousands of acres
of good grazing-country ruined
by pear; country you could
drive a buggy through ten years
ago, and now a wallaby couldn’t
get through it.”
He must have thrown quite a
scare into Carson, because
within a month we had twenty
men on poisoning, and we were
kept busy both supplying the
camps and inspecting the work.
My stockmen rode in to
Dilargo every weekend and I
drove in on several occasions. I
told myself I was only going in
because there was a dance or a
picture-show on. Once I decided
I was going in for a few beers
and a yam. But whatever the
excuse, there was no escaping
the fact that I always finished the
evening with Carla.
rnntinued next week)
{lO
SONNET: VIRGIN FOREST
1 remember a land of evening eyes .
That were a rough-worn path, and whose mist-hair
Swept in a sudden singing valley, where
Shrouded trees had dreams of bellbird cries.
There, in a frJnd moist world which knew that skies
Were blue, and was not awed, which held the air
A captive in dewed valleys, 1 grew aware
That this land’s age is strength, that rock is wise.
In a soft land where water bleeds from stone
And clings like hooked vines to trees, and mist
Sighs silver silences in stream-beds, throat-
Deep echoes hover, bird-warm and alone.
I have known the birth-song, and have kissed
The earth-dews, and have drunk where leaf-truths float.
N.S.W.
THOMAR W. SHAPCOTT.


• H
■
imi
iiWiliiiill
:s ; "
-.■■ .s-: :•
'
&m
H
REGISTERED
FIRST
mortgage
debenture
STOCK
o
ANNUM
F °* s year s
m
mm
NjiiiitiiHr.
r m-
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before maturity in certain
circumstances—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all finance com-
panies in Australia. Assets exceed £39,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue :
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Trustee for the Debenture Stockholders :
The Perpetual Executors & Trustees Association
of Australia Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to—
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. & A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD., and Australia’s Leading
Hire Purchase Organisation— 27.8.56
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPO R AT ION LINITED
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH HOBART
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
■
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Recollections of squatting
in Victoria . . . from 1841 to 1851,
by E. Curr; Dachshunds, by Daglish;
The Roaring Fifties and Below and on
Top (1899), both by Edward Dyson;
and Views in Ne,w South Wales and
Van Diemen’s Land (1830) and Views
in Australia (circa 1826), both by A.
Earle. —6356.
Photos, old or new, of the township
of Canbelego (N.5.W.).—6357.
To sell first five numbers “Art in
Australia” and special publications
“Art of Heysen,” Hilder, Martens,
Streeton and Blamire Young.—63sB.
To buy copy of Green Mountains
and Cullen Ben Bong, by Bernard
O’Reilly ; or a copy of the presenta-
tion edition containing the two ( Green
Mountains and Cullen Ben Bong ) in
the one cover. Any condition. —6359.
To buy a copy of Landtakers, by
Brian Penton. —6363.
To correspond with Australians,
particularly Australian soldiers who
fought in North Africa in World War
11. (Write Fred M. Meyer, Box 74,
Kinderhook, Illinois, U.S.A.)
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of name of Brisbane
suburb Moorooka; also meaning of
name of Queensland township
Camooweal?
Information Sought
Brief biographical details of Dean
Inge ?
Born in Yorkshire in 1860, son of
the Rev. William Inge, Provost of
Worcester College (Oxford), and said
to be descended from Edward 111, he
had a brilliant academic career. He
became a Fellow of King’s College
and (1889-1904) Fellow and Tutor at
Hertford College (Oxford), select
preacher at Oxford and, later, Cam-
bridge, and in 1907 became Lady
Margaret Professor of Divinity at
Cambridge. He was Dean of St.
Paul’s Cathedral, London, from 1911
to 1934. Dr. Inge was an outspoken
Anglican writer, essayist and
preacher; after he retired he continued
to be a public figure, and wrote many
newspaper-articles. Because of a
pessimistic outlook and frequent pre-
dictions of disaster, and a dry and
austere manner in the pulpit, he
became known as the “Gloomy
Dean.” His voluminous output
included his Outspoken Essays (two
series), The Philosophy of Plotinus,
The Platonic Tradition, Christian
Mysticism, Studies of English Mystics,
God and the Astronomers and The
Victorian Age. He died on Feb. 26,
1954.
* * * *
Some annual rates of salary paid to
members of the N.S.W. police-force ?
On a base rate of £l2 13s. per week,
here are various rates (some omitted)
as from 11/11/ ’55 —Superintendent
lst-class, £2051; 2nd-class, £1941;
3rd-class, £lB3l. Inspector lst-class,
£1551; 2nd-class, £1511; 3rd-class,
£l4Bl. Sergeant lst-class (including
detective-sergeant lst-class), over five-
years service in grade, £1292; less
than five-years service in grade, £1277.
Sergeant 2nd-class (including det.-
sergeant 2nd-class), over five-years
service in grade, £1252; less than five-
years service in grade, £1237. (Sergeant
3rd-class and senior-constable have
been omitted for space reasons.)
Constable lst-class (including det.-
const. lst-class), 12th-year and there-
after service in grade, £1131; seventh-
year to llth-year service in grade,
£1116; first-year to third-year service
in grade, £lOBB. Constable (including
det.-const.), seventh year and over,
£1035; £lO per annum less for each
year less of service down to first year,
£975.
* * * *
Particulars of the windjammer
Moshulu ?
Built by William Hamilton and Co.,
Glasgow (Scotland), for a German
firm, she was launched on April 20,
1904, as the Kurt; she was of 3102
gross tons. Plying in the nitrate trade
between Hamburg and America, she
was in American waters when the
U.S. entered World War I, and was
requisitioned by the U.S. Govern-
ment ; she was renamed Dreadnaught,
and then Moshulu. In 1921 she was
sold to a San Francisco firm, and
was put into the Pacific trade, carry-
ing lumber and copra. In 1924, when
a shortage of cargo made it
uneconomic to run her, she was laid-
off for three years; in 1928 she was
again laid-olf, for seven years; in 1935
she was added to the famous Ericsen
fleet. She was used in the grain
trade till 1940, when the Germans
captured her. In 1943 she ran
aground in Norway, and was not
sailed again during the war; in 1947
she grounded, and capsized, but
was raised again. She changed hands
several times, and in 1952 she was sold
to German owners, who had already
put back into service such well-known
sailers as Pamir and Passat; it is not
known here whether Moshulu is back
in commission. Moshulu came to
Australia many times, firstly in
August, 1907, for the last time in Jan.-
March, 1939. (Information from the
Shiplovers’ Society of Victoria.)
* * * *
(1) Recipe for making hop-beer ?
(2) Is it possible to buy fermenting
brewers’-yeast ?
(1) Assemble 4oz. hops, 71b. treacle,
loz. whole ginger, s£gals. water, 1 cup
brewers’-yeast. Mix all but the yeast,
and bring to the boil; keep boiling
gently for two hours. Transfer to
a non-metal tub, and let it cool. Add
the yeast and stir well, and let stand
for 16 hours. Then put in a barrel,
and let stand for two days with the
bung out and the barrel slightly
canted. Then bung tightly. Fit to
use in a week. (2) Yes, most
breweries will supply this if you take
your own container; don’t know of
any other suppliers.
* * * *
(1) Biographical details of the Aus-
tralian writer M. Barnard Eldershaw ?
(2) List of works?
(1) M. Barnard Eldershaw is, in
fact, two persons, Marjorie Faith
Barnard and Flora Sydney Patricia
Eldershaw. Marjorie Barnard, born
at Ashfield (Sydney), B.A. of Sydney
University, was for a time librarian
at Sydney Technical College and,
later, librarian for the C.5.1.R.0.
Flora Eldershaw, bom at Darlinghurst
(Sydney), also B.A. of Sydney Uni-
versity, was senior mistress at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
Croydon. (2) Novels are A House Is
Built (1929), which shared with
Katharine Prichard’s Coonardoo the
Bulletin prize for the best novel sub-
mitted in 1928, and which ran, in an
abridged version, as a serial in The
Bulletin as “The Quartermaster,”
beginning 22/5/’29 —it is the story of
the fortunes of James Hyde and his
family in N.S.W. for 50 years from
1839; Green Memory (1931), a story
of Sydney in the middle 19th-century;
The Glasshouse (1936), set on a
Norwegian ship on the way to Aus-
tralia ; Plaque with Laurel (1937),
recollections concerning a lately
deceased author, Richard Crale; and
Tomorrow and Tomorrow (1947),
Australia as imagined, somewhat
macabrely, 400 years hence. Other
writings include Phillip of Australia
(1938), Essays in Australian Fiction
(1938), My Australia (1939) and The
Life and Times of Captain John Piper
(1939). Each has also published books
under her own name.
* * * *
Some information on the British
philosopher C. E. M. Joad?
Born in 1891, he entered the British
civil service in 1914, leaving it in 1930
to become head of the Department of
Philosophy at Birkbeck College (Uni-
versity of London), a post he held till
his death on April 9, 1953. He was
on the 8.8.C.’s “Brains Trust,” where
his wit and disregard for the con-
ventional answer made him a con-
troversial figure; he became known
as the “prophet Joad.” Novelist,
philosopher, pamphleteer and news-
paper-columnist, he wrote over 40
books, two of his best-known being
the Guide to Philosophy and the
Guide to the Philosophy of Morals
and Politics; in 1932 he published
Under the Fifth Rib, self-styled a
“belligerent” autobiography. An
acclaimed Socialist, but too
individualist to be a good Socialist,
splenetic, overbearing, an intellectual
snob, critical without real cause of
Australia and of America, he was
described by one writer at his death
as “one of the most glittering of the
mayflies which hover over the deep
streams of English culture, and yet
very often he showed which way it
was flowing.”
Brief Answers
E.W.T.: (1) Moore’s Corner was
the north-east corner of George-
street and King-street. (2) Named
after William Henry Moore, who
arrived in Sydney in January, 1815,
to become, with Frederick’ Garling,
the first Crown Solicitor of N.S.W.
(3) He lived in a house on that
corner, hence its name. In 1834 the
property was cut up and sold for
£10,318 16s. Bd. (4) and (5) No
information. (6) Moore Park was not
named after William Henry Moore.
C.R.: The name “Digger,” says
Dr. C. E. W. Bean in the Official War
History, “became common among
New Zealand and Australian soldiers
in 1917. It displaced cobber (comrade)
and mate as a form of address. Dur-
ing the third battle of Ypres it came
to denote an Australian private, much
as Tommy denoted a British soldier.”
Bean added that the term was “said
to have been used originally among
gumdiggers, especially in New
Zealand.” However, “digger” was
also common in Australia long before
1917, particularly during the gold-
rushes, from around 1851 J.F.H.:
“Three Years with Menzies,” by
Stewart Cockbum, a former press-
secretary to Mr. Menzies, ran, in each
successive issue, from B. 24/3/’54 to
B. 21/4/’54....A.McC.: The Bulletin
Reciter was recently reprinted by the
N.S.W. Bookstall Co. Pty., Ltd.,
corner Market-street and Castlereagh-
street, Sydney R.W.F.: You will
have to write N.S.W. Department of
Mines, Box 48, G.P.0., Sydney, for
brochure on beach-mining for rutile
and zircon. Afraid the one we
reserved for “Titanium” (B. 27/6/’56)
was only a spare one we had in the
office H.M.: Income of up to £7
a week does not affect pension of a
married couple. No pension is pay-
able if income is £l5 or more a week,
and there is a reduction in each pen-
sion when income is between £7 and
£l5. You would not be entitled to a
full pension J.C.L.: Write Lennox
Walker, Crohamhurst Observatory
(Q.), Australia’s leading authority on
long-range weather-forecasting, whose
forecasts can be read each week on
the “Man on the Land” page
J.M.: Wills not in writing are, as a
general rule, void. Most wills, to be
valid, must be signed at the end of
the will by the testator (or some other
person in his presence and by his
direction), and such signature must
be made or acknowledged by the
testator in the presence of two
witnesses present at the same time,
the witnesses to attest the will in the
presence of the testator J.H.:
Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney J.F.:
Your inquiry passed on to “Rimu-
tuka,” who should know all the
answers, with the request that she
answer you direct J.A.: Keratitis
is inflammation of the cornea (the
front part of the outer coat of the
eyeball)... .L.E.: The bomber raid
on Tokyo by an American force under
Major-General Doolittle was in April,
1942. President Roosevelt announced
that the attack was made from bases
in “Shangri-la.” Actually, of course,
Doolittle’s planes were carrier-based.
S.C.W.: Hendrik van Loon, the
“popular” historian, died on March
11, 1944. He was a native of Rotter-
dam (Holland), but became a
naturalised American citizen
H.W.: If the total net value of
property (which includes money in a
bank) possessed by a single person is
£2lO or more, the annual rate of
pension is reduced by £1 for every
complete £lO of the net value of the
property over £200; eligibility for
pension ceases altogether if net value
exceeds £1750... .J.A.: Income tax
is not levied on gifts unless they are
gifts made in relation to an office of
employment. Commonwealth gift-
duty is payable if gifts made by the
same donor over a period of 18
months exceed £2OOO C.H.:
Where a person derives an income in
excess of £lO4 an income-tax return
must be lodged. On the figures
quoted no income tax will be payable,
by reason of the age-relief provisions,
assuming the husband is over 65 years
and the wife over 60 L.J.C.: This
year’s Bulletin Sydney Show Supple-
ment was the issue of March 28, 1956.
... .S.A.S.: The May school-holidays
in N.S.W. next year fall from May
10 to May 20....R.A.: The books
mentioned would be of no commercial
value unless in perfect condition,
which, it appears, is not the case.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
T.M.: Your genius is hardly
mountainous enough to sustain that
“Mist” N.S.: You should read
Kenneth Slessor on “Sleep”....
D.R.R.: The elegy for George
Bernard Shaw is quite good, without
that extra force and wit that would
carry it into print... .N.N.: Leave it
to C. J. Dennis M.C.: They’re
authentic and they’re harmless; but
that’s not enough... .J.W.: At least
it is possibly the only elegy ever
written for propeller-driven aircraft.
. ...R.J.A.: You’re in:
. ...F.C.: “Small and Fair” is small
and —fair... .D.F.C.: On the tenth
reading we decided that, though
“Ceased be their eager surge” might
pass, “The snuffle rifts the way”
must remain for ever baffling.
THE AWAKENING
Now tlie pitch and the toss,
Better known as the boss,
Came along to Morven Downs,
With him he brought three of a sort,
For ploughing- and sowing these grounds.
This’s a mighty job,
And we only get a few bob,
Why should I toil all seven days in the
week,
For my keep and eight-pounds-ten,
Tend a another drunk’s work sleek,
When higher paid jobs are easy to seek,
And find with other men,
Surely I know of some other life,
Maybe a gentleman driven by strife,
Or as I turn my weary head west,
I think of someone —of someone who’s left.
She could be a queen deprived of a throne,
Or a vagavond dreamer —wandering alone.
But what ever is this lady’s plight,
The hospital on duty by day and by night,
As her tiny fingers of morning bright
Drew upon the books of drowsy night
And cunning and alcohol are of no avail,
When going home with fortune and deep
design,
The chance that sobrietry, and the honey
blonde are mine.
When my suit case falls in that speed
sweep train,
And my bulgen pockets takes the strain.
K.S.S.: We dodged your
galahs.... A.F.: Tempted by your
prefiistoric monsters but the point
isn’t really clear, you’ve overworked
the “chorus” rhyme, and it’s too long.
J.P.: We’ll just take a nibble at
it: —
’Twas in ninety-two in the shearers’ strike,
The cook stood at the door,
His apron and cap was snowy white,
He had often stood there before.
The swagman approached,
His knot on his back,
His billycan carried his pup.
His face was as brown as the strap
on his hat
Or the bowyangs that kept his pants up.
He squatted on his haunches, made marks
with a stick,
And complained of the corns on his feet,
Which prompted the remark, It is going
to rain,
And his famishing hunger for a bit of
meat.


Gavin Goes Gastronomkal
Pangs of Pie-hunger
By GAVIN CASEY
SYDNEY artist and some-
time Bulletin contribu-
tor Pete Harrigan, in
company with another
art-student in London, one even-
ing contributed much to the
confusion of that great city by
roaming the streets offering
astonished Englishmen “a pound
for a Sargent’s pie.”
He didn’t get one, of course,
until he was back in Aus-
tralia, when the makers may
have wondered why output and
profits soared for a few months.
In the United Kingdom pies
are to be had in private homes
and restaurants, and some of
them are very good, too. But
there seems to be no longer
any equivalent of the Australian
meat-pie, a steaming snack with
plenty of gravy, to be devoured
from the hand under the stars
or the street-lights by the late
toiler or the late pub-crawler.
They have, in the pubs, where
it is served in chunks, a mon-
strosity known as “veal-and-
bacon pie,” and it must have
done more to encourage migra-
tion to Australia, the other
Dominions and the colonies than
the potato-famine did in Ire-
land.
Cold, greasy, and heavy as
lead, “veal-and-bacon pie” pro-
duces, in all but cast-iron
stomachs, acute indigestion,
followed for a long period by
yellow jowls, an extreme dislike
of life, and a lusty hatred of
the place one is in and all the
people around one.
It may, at some time in the
past, have been a noble dish,
but at the time that Pete
Harrigan and myself were in
London there was a marked
shortage of both veal and bacon.
Finding a fragment of each or
either in among the masses of
almost raw dough that made up
the pie was harder than winning
the lottery, and watching
Englishmen eat the stuff, and
imagining the pangs they would
soon suffer, was a favorite pas-
time of the more sadistic anti-
British foreigners.
However, you don’t have to
be suffering from a meat-hunger
to develop a raging pie-hunger,
as I found out in New York.
There, there was ample meat
of the choicest kinds, with deli-
cious sea-food and poultry to
break the monotony. It could
be washed down with every sort
of excellent drink, including the
Scotch that was then virtually
unobtainable in the United
Kingdom.
But there were no pies—or
at least none with meat in them.
There was every sort of des-
sert pie, including kinds we
never see here, like nesselrode
and pumpkin, but for some
unknown reason the friendly
and palatable association of hot
meat and gravy with pastry has
vanished from the American
table.
The hamburger, clutched in a
bread-roll for outdoor eating,
seems in the U.S. to have re-
placed the meat-pie altogether ;
and though a good hamburger
is a nice form of nourishment
it is not what you want when
you want a meat-pie.
After a pieless existence for so
long that we drooled at the
thought of one, some of my Aus-
tralian colleagues and myself
discovered a restaurant called
the Mayan Room, right below
our office, where, on one day a
week, they had a dish very like
the real thing. Incidentally,
they also had George, an affable
Italian bartender who, before
going off to the U.S., had been
an electrician and had spent
some time working on the
Sydney Harbor Bridge for a firm
of contractors.
For each day of the week the
Mayan Room had a special
plate, a favorite of some over-
seas nation, on its menu, and on
Saturdays at lunch-time this was
“Beef Steak and Kidney Pie,
English Style.” It would have
surprised most Englishmen, for
individual serves came piping-
hot in containers about the size
of babies’ bath-tubs, and all
the vegetables, as well as the
meat and gravy, were under the
crust. But it was wonderful
pie, rich and satisfying, with
the pastry as light as cumulus
clouds and the gravy darkly
thick.
Our office did not open on
Saturday mornings, but with this
bait to tempt us we came from
far and wide on that day to
satisfy our raging pie-hunger.
American friends frequently
joined us, and they always came
back for more, lamenting what-
ever lapse in the national
memory had made the nation’s
cooks forget how to make
meat-pies. We left behind us
quite a few Yanks who will,
for the rest of their lives, have
occasional pie-hungers that will
have to be satisfied to prevent
them from biting pieces out of
passing waitresses.
The sausage-roll and the pasty,
close cousins of the pie, seem
also unknown to city Americans,
and their novelty, as well as
their toothsome taste, enabled
a number of Australian host-
esses to have triumphant suppers
or savories -on - the - sideboard
when they entertained.
Big eaters at any time, like
all cold-country peoples, the
north-eastern Americans could
get through astonishing quanti-
ties of such dainties along with
a few cocktails, and their eating
of meat-pies and the like was
always accompanied by ecstatic
yelps, and the shrill, urgent
demands for recipes, which were
freely given.
As with good, strong beer,
Australia seems to be one of the
last strongholds of the meat-pie
in the English-speaking world,
and the humble, portable,
occasionally leaky dish has
added much to the nation’s
merriment, as well as to the
average weight of the citizenry.
At my age few things seem
as good as they used to be, and
no pie will ever taste as beauti-
ful to me as the deep, gravy-
oozing monsters a certain Mrs.
Mclnerney used to sell from a
tiny shop in Hannan-street,
Kalgoorlie, 30 and more years
ago. They were so big and so
good that they “went off like
hot pies” at sixpence when no
other one-man pie was sold in
the town for more than four-
pence.
But there are still many good
pies around, in Australian cities
and elsewhere, some of the best
being tumed-out in hotel kit-
chens for the counter-lunches
served at the bars (at a price).
And in places like Toowoomba,
Queensland, men still seem to
get pie-hungry in the of
the night, judging by the number
of tiny pie-carts whose fires
glow and whose chimneys
spread a gentle, aromatic smoke
and savory smell of hot pastry
on the street-corners.
Significantly, no doubt, the
meat-pie seems to have held a
major place in the diet of Aus-
tralian artists for generations.
In his Brisbane days, Bulletin
artist Les Such held high rank
in and was one of the champions
of the Queensland Pie Eaters
Association, an organisation the
members of which had a secret
sign, involving the whacking of
elbows, the wringing of burnt
fingers, the scooping of imagine
ary forkfuls of peas into the
. „
mouth, and various other ges-
times Pie-eaters well - met
needed no further introduction,
and would soon be seen arm
in-arm, hastening to the nearest
pie-shop.
Where men work shifts,
and knock-off both hungry and
eager for bed, pies always
popular, and on the Westralian
goldfields of my youth there
were some mighty pie-stalls, as
well as shops.
One of these Cafes de Move-
a iong used to be stationed at
the main street-intersection in
Boulder, near the Golden Mile,
and a strange fate once befell it.
This stall was a great four-
w heeler, with a fire under its
ovens a bout the size of a power-
bouse furnace, and accommoda-
tion for a score of eager eaters.
j t b a d a varied menu, but “Pie
and p eas ,” with an extra ladle
graV y on top, was the firm
f avor ite. Over and around it a
vast tent-structure of canvas
spreac j 5 pegged to the street and
shielding the pie-eaters from the
vu i gar g a ze.
Opposite its site was the ter-
minus a f a very s h or t tramline,
which ran a mere m q e to t he
m - anc j w hich was used only
t bree times a day, at the change
of And the largely-idle
e nf the
L r 8 i th e for
whmh .oostedjhere for
m h 24 1 l s(aU an = | q£
p £
the P PP •... ht in
App roaching inidnigUt in
those
g P
hours a day, were
alw iy g
the tr m .
Come on, Joe, the driver
(or the conductor) would say,
looking at ms we
better git goin.
Joe, enjoying ins beer, wouia
look at his timepiece, and snarl,
‘ Garn. Yer fast.
“I ain’t. I set it when the
clock struck eleven.”
“Let ’em wait, anyway,
There’s time fer anothery.”
“All right, on’y then we’re
off.”
All this would end in real
lateness, a frantic dive into the
tram, and the shriek of steel
wheels on rails as the thing
took-off in a shower of blue
sparks like a jet-propelled
missile.
The really big night was the
one on which the pie-stall took
off after it!
The humiliation and discom-
fort of honest pie-eaters is not,
perhaps, a thing to laugh at. But
it was hard not to laugh the
night some man of twisted
genius hitched the Cafe de
Movealong to the back of the
tram with a length of stout steel
cable from the mines.
Canvas ripped and pegs tore
free. Men, pies, peas, crockery,
cutlery, and red-hot coals flew
everywhere. The stall lurched
and leapt and poured hot gravy
on its patrons.
The trammies sobered-up in
half-a-chain, and the night-
shift men at Fimiston who lived
in Boulder and didn’t have bikes
were very late home that night.
Entertainment, in the form of
shouts in the darkness, hasty and
passionate language, and fights
here and there, was still on
when at last they arrived. But
there were no pies.
Consequently, a true and
terrible pie-hunger was on the
populace next day, and it’s a
pity that no statistics were kept
on the Boulder consumption for
the period. The pie-stall pro-
prietor, if I remember correctly,
resumed business as soon as
possible—but this time in a
solid brick shop which, if tied
to a tram, would merely pull
the back out of the tram.
Pies may lack vitamins, and
because of their pastry they may
contain too many calories and
make you fat. Just what’s in
them may, as in the sausage, be
a mystery. They may contribute
to blood-pressure, hardening of
the arteries, excessive thirst and
child-delinquency. They may
no longer be quite as delicious
as they were in my youth,
when I had only eaten a few
thousand and they still, like
everything else, had novelty.
But after all this writing about
them, the pie-hunger is on me
again, and I’m going out to
have some for lunch.
Treasure Around Our Shores
By CLEM McCAFFREY
GOLD and silver bullion,
diamonds, gold - plate,
Spanish dollars from the
Philippines, Dutch gold
bound for the Indies and the
jewelled loot of Chinese temples
—this, and maybe more than
history or legend records, lies
unaccounted for about Aus-
tralia’s and New Zealand’s
shores.
It is true that treasure tales
often become embroidered over
the years, but in many of these
instances the evidence is
unimpeachable. Nor do all
belong to an era when unnamed
galleons pursued vague courses
to forgotten destinations. Some
are of recent date.
One very recent planting is the
£ 14,000-swag of diamonds lying
somewhere in the seabed
wreckage of a Dutch aircraft
shot down by the Japs off Carnot
Bay in north-west Australia.
Going back a bit, in the days
before Queensland was created
a separate colony, Frank
Lascelles Jardine, then Govern-
ment Resident in Cape York
Peninsula, unearthed a tidy
amount of Spanish gold that was
possibly part of a bigger hoard,
though no more was ever found.
The great galleons en route
from Peru to the Spanish home-
land sometimes, of course,
travelled via the Philippines, and
in so doing passed through the
reef-strewn waters of Torres
Strait. One of the most fascinat-
ing legends associated with this
region is that of “the ship with
the silver keel.” Apparently this
story had its. origin in the
choreography of a native dance,
which, according to local tradi-
tion, re-enacted the wreck of a
strange vessel near by, back in
the “dream-time.” The ship is
believed to lie just off Darnley
Island.
Theorists suggest that keeling
a ship with silver would have
provided greater space for
precious metals in the hold, as
well as serving to disguise its
presence in the case of attack.
Old Spanish helmets, coins,
plate and Toledo-steel blades
have been found round about;
and off Darnley Island are the
stone walls which native tradi-
tion says were built in the long
ago by invaders who wore “steel
clothes.”
Off Stephen Island a box of
rubies was unearthed by a sea-
captain named Bruce back in the
1890’s. He followed-up a native
legend that told of stowaways
burying a precious box on the
island and, digging at the site,
located the rubies.
An old Spanish, gun inscribed
“Santa Barbara, 1596” was
unearthed from the sand at South
Trees Point, near Gladstone
(Q.), by a survey party working
there in 1853, though nothing
else was found.
Not all treasure-seeking need
be confined to northern waters,
though. Expeditions periodically
set out in search of Dutch gold
alleged to lie in the sands along
our western coast —deposited
there by survivors from wrecks
of Dutch ships en route for Java.
As recently as 1900, Maxi-
milian Rojaz, a Filipino, was
hanged in Fremantle Jail for the
murder of Captain John Riddle
of the schooner Ethel. Rojaz,
along with a group of cutthroat
Filipinos and Malays, signed-on
with the Ethel at Broome. After
putting out to sea they murdered
Riddle and took over his ship.
Before execution, Rojaz con-
fessed to complicity in the loot-
ing of a million Spanish dollars
from a bank on the island of
Luzon, in the Philippines.
According to his story, the gang
immediately headed for the West
Australian coast, and either there
or on an island near by the haul
was buried. Rojaz wanted the
Ethel to go and collect it. He
went to the gallows without dis-
closing any details of the site.
Then there is the 4000 oz. of
Australian gold that lies in the
rotting hulk of the General
Grant, five fathoms deep in an
island cavern of the Aucklands
Group, 400 miles south of the
New Zealand mainland. Expedi-
tions still seek it.
An American sailing-ship of
1200 tons, with its maiden
voyage just completed, the
General Grant sailed for British
ports from Hobson’s Bay (Vic.),
on May 4, 1886. It carried a
full complement of 83
passengers, mostly successful
diggers returning home.
What gold they might have
carried privately is not known ;
but it is known quite definitely
that amongst the general cargo of
wool and hides were four strong-
boxes each containing IOOOoz.
The General Grant set course
for New Zealand, but little more
than a week later was inexplic-
ably off-course, 400 miles or so
south, and near to Disappoint-
ment Island.
In attempting a passage
through the group of islands in
the dark the ship was driven by
the gale into a cavern beneath
cliffs towering 400 ft. overhead.
Its mastheads ploughed into
overhanging rock, and the ship
sank.
Fifteen survivors managed to
exist on near-by Adam Island
till picked up by a passing
whaler. The gold lies there still.
But most fantastic of all tales
of local treasure is that of the
“Inverloch millions.” In a sand-
hill at Inverloch, near Wonthaggi
(Vic.), you may—-if the story is
right, and if you are luckier than
your predecessors unearth
£200,000,000-worth of treasure,
the loot of Chinese temples.
According to Donald
Nicholson, who died not long
since, and who was still search-
ing for it up to the end, the
treasure was buried there by his
grandfather round about 1900.
Nicholson, Snr., had been a
(i Continued on page 34)


M
*
MAtT
HOPS
o
0
&
r
ja^!s
CO
. NS?V, At
S')
There’s
o]o
in
every
glass
A glass of Sheaf
does you a power
of good
tastes good too!
STOUT
BY TOOTH & CO, LIMITED
SS. 187.1 t
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Rosehill’s enclosures were well
filled—an excellent winter
attendance —for the running of
the S.T.C.’s £2lOO Winter Handi-
cap, an attractive late-season
sprint which was introduced in
1948, since when no jockey has
won it twice. Karendi holds the
time-record, 1.24, made three
years ago. On a soft track for
the latest race of the series, easy
winner Cragsley ran the seven
furlongs in 1.27 f.
Cragsley must be a hardy type,
he having competed in five
events between June 16 and July
21 over distances from six to
about 11 furlongs, the latter run
being in the Doomben Cup a
week before his success in the
Winter Handicap. At Doomben
he had beaten only a few home,
which didn’t surprise Sydney
race-followers, who regard
Cragsley as essentially a sprinter.
Cragsley had shaped fairly in
the Doomben Ten Thousand.
Next Saturday Rosehill will
stage the second leg of the winter
double, with a strong field of
stayers expected to compete in
the £3lOO S.T.C. Cup.
Ken Austin, nowadays a
prominent Turf figure in New
Zealand, and formerly an
auctioneer of bloodstock in
Sydney and an authority on the
breeding-side of racing, won the
A.T.C. Metropolitan in 1949
with Count Cyrano, one of his
own breeding. He races Rose-
hill Second Two-year-old
Maiden winner Monte Carlo,
who is from Bobalong, a half-
sister to Count Cyrano. The
colt, who is also closely related
to Phar Lap, bolted in with the
Rosehill sprint, and he could
be a classic hope in the new
season, which will open next
Week.
Monte Carlo is by Lucky Bag
(imp.), sire of Slogan 11, winner
of last April’s Doncaster ; Austin
races Slogan II in partnership
with Frank Dalton, who trains
that New Zealander and also
trains Monte Carlo. Bobalong
is by Lord Bobs (imp.) from
Raphis by Night Raid (imp.)
from Entreaty by Winkie (imp.),
so the colt is bred on sound
staying-lines.
Failure at prior starts didn’t
prevent a headlong rush by
punters to be on Morvi’s Pride,
a supposed “good thing” for the
Rosehill Second Two-year-old.
He finished in the middle of the
field after a slow start, which,
anyway, probably settled any
winning chance he might have
had. But, then, the brother of
Prince Morvi would have had
to be a super colt to beat Monte
Carlo. He may do better next
time.
In the early part of this racing
season Sir Dolph gave promise
of being a smart winner, but it
wasn’t till Saturday that the
Good Company (imp.)-
Credulous colt opened his
winning account, in the Rose-
hill First Two-year-old Maiden.
The colt, raced by H. H. Yardley,
is trained at Randwick by Tom
McGrath, and the win would be
a tonic to McGrath ; he hasn’t
been in the best of health for
some time. In earlier years Tom
McGrath was, of course, a crack
jockey, mainly on Melbourne
tracks. Sir Dolph belongs to the
family which produced the
Trump -and Victory Lad. His
dam is by Ajax from Mecrida by
Chivalrous (imp.).
Caulfield had its quota of out-
siders in a nine-event programme
—rather a hazardous Saturday
afternoon’s temptation at the
best of times. One of the
“roughies,” Sandara, winner of
the second Two-year-old Handi-
cap, started at 50 to 1. Sandara
had galloped well at Fleming-
ton, but race-form had not been
impressive. She is trained by P.
Burke for A. Sheahan, and is
by Sandastre (imp.), a top-class
staying-performer in England
and in France; his progeny are
racing in their first season.
Aloof, dam of the winner, is a
Regular Bachelor mare from
Lady Merna by Perinthus,
tracing back to Carbine’s best
son, Wallace. Beau Vite, Skipton
and Gaine Carrington belong
to the family, so Sandara could
develop into a staying type in
the coming season.
New Zealand - bred Maori
Gold, winner of Caulfield Lilli-
mur Handicap (one mile), is now
regarded as a Derby proposi-
tion ; certainly he won in attrac-
tive style. Bred by Mrs. Alister
Williams at her Te Parae stud,
Masterton, Maori Gold is by
Sabaean (imp.) from Hornet’s
Nest, an imported mare by
Flyon from Kettle of Fish by
King Salmon. He should stay,
being related to Faux Tirage
(imp.) and to Tudor Minstrel,
winner in England of eight
races and £24,629 in stakes.
* * *
Sydney owner Miss M.
O’Neill, who has enjoyed a fair
measure of success with her
small team (including Prince
Leo, Prince Astra and others,
trained by Fred Hood), paraded
a natty chestnut yearling colt
at the Randwick sale of blood-
stock last Friday, but she passed
him in when bidding ceased at
700gns. The colt will pro-
bably now be prepared for
racing by Hood, who has given
him the necessary early educa-
tion. A half-brother to Prince
Leo, the colt is by Tauber (imp.),
whose first progeny brought high
prices at the Randwick yearling
auction last April. Tauber is one
of the first sons of top stayer
and sire Chanteur II to be
represented in N.S.W. He won
races in England at from five to
11 furlongs.
An interesting item at the
Randwick auction was Gay
Vista’s yearling brother, a geld-
ing by Port Vista (imp.) from
Gay Fault. He brought
2300gns. His half-brother, a
weanling colt by Nilo (imp.), sold
for 700gns., and is to race in
Melbourne ; his dam, Gay Fault,
was also sold, fetching 525gns.
Gay Fault is in foal to Charleval
(imp.). The yearling brother to
Gay Vista already is bigger than
that brilliant winner of 15 races.
Several weanlings—thorough-
bred progeny born earlier this
season —were sold at the Rand-
wick auction, mostly for low
prices. Some were well-bred
stock, but most of them were
in the rough, otherwise they
would have brought keener
bidding. Owners would prob-
ably have found results worth
the trouble of getting the young
horses bright and shiny for the
sale-ring. One weanling, by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Ginger Nymph, looked a likely
type, but he was passed in at
600gns. Maybe he will come
up again for sale as a yearling,
and just as likely will bring a
high price.
“Bookie’s Dog”: Sad com-
mentary on the class of the
Australian thoroughbred: Early
charts on the Caulfield-
Melbourne Cups double
show that of the first seven
fancied horses in the Caulfield
race six are Enzedders; in
the Flemington event four
out of the first six are from over
the Tasman. Only local horses in
the top brackets are Sir William
and Sailor’s Guide.
+ +
It’s now one each and two to
go, with England’s winning of
the third cricket Test—first time
England has ever beaten Aus-
tralia at Leeds. The fourth Test
begins tomorrow. England
deserved its innings win in the
third Test; it proved to have,
when needed, the batsmen and
the bowlers to take charge of
proceedings—even though only
two or three in both categories.
On paper the Australians had
batting strength right down to
Lindwall at No. 11; but twice
they failed to put a reasonable
quota of runs on paper. It was
“We got one, too!”
a bad pitch at the end, but Aus-
tralia’s first collapse was on a
good enough wicket. On the last
day or so only Harvey, playing
a masterly second-innings knock,
Miller and, to an extent, Benaud
shaped anyway like Test-
batsmen.
Once more Australia was
Licked, Locked and Lakered —
which has become too much
of a habit. (And to think it was
“Typhoon” Tyson everyone was
most concerned about when the
team left for England!) Laker
was the main destroyer in the
third Test. As with other spin-
bowlers before him (like Grim-
mett, for instance), Laker, now
34, is apparently at his peak in
his thirties. He has done better
against the Aussies on each of
their last three tours. In three
Tests in 1948 he was given a
hiding, taking 9 wickets for 472,
av. 52.44; in 1953, again in
three Tests, he again took 9
wickets, much cheaper at 23.55.
(In the third Test alone this year
he took 11 wickets, av. 10.03.)
* * #
The inter-State baseball
carnival for the Claxton Shield,
held each year, gets under way at
Norwood Oval, Adelaide, on
Saturday. The carnival, staged
on various ovals, is spread over a
week, to finish at Weigall Oval
on Sunday, Aug. 5, with a play-
off if necessary or Champion
State v. The Rest. Five States
will compete —N.S.W- (holders),
Vic., Q., S.A. and W.A. At the
end of the carnival an Australian
team is to be selected, to play,
if it’s possible to bring ’em out,
a top-line American amateur
team as a pipe-opener to the
Olympic Games.
* * *
Winner of the N.S.W- amateur
golf title, Jack McCarthy staged
a sensational finish to defeat
Lee Patterson at the 37th hole.
McCarthy won three holes in a
row, two of them with birdies.
After that he was included in
the N.S.W. team to play inter-
state matches next month. His
team-mates will be H. Berwick
(captain), N. Bartell, P. Heard,
P. Langham, L. Patterson, B.
Warren, E. Rigney and Noel
Wade (reserve).
* * *
After 19 wins straight (the
last six last year and 13 this
year) Melbourne on Saturday
had its first defeat in the V.F.L.,
per favor of Footscray, which
had inflicted the last loss on
Melbourne, last July. The Bull-
dogs won in the rucks, and a
solid defence kept the Demons’
forwards astray; Footscray,
10.12-7.17. For last possie in
“the four” ’Scray now has the
edge on Carlton, which drew in
a thrilling game with giant-
killing (or, at the least, giant-
scaring) St. Kilda, 8.18-9.12.
Collingwood, eaten alive by
Richmond Tigers earlier in the
year, did the masticating this
time, 14.16-8.5. Geelong, though
struggling and in danger at
times, was a little too good for
Hawthorn, 12.13-10.14. Fitzroy
beat “Sowth” 15.15-11.15, and
Essendon rebuffed North, 10.18-
6.11.
“Blufire”: St. Kilda coach
Alan Killigrew says and does
the right things to keep his
improving team that way. After
their exciting one-point win over
Footscray supporters were
calling for cheers for individual
players. “Don’t forget,”
“Killer’s” voice bellowed, “there
are 18 players in this side!”
“M ag p i e”: Collingwood’s
remarkable success as a V.F.L.
club—it has won more premier-
ships than any other league-
team and has rarely been out
of the “final four” in nearly 60
years of competition—has two
main ingredients. A player has
to be 100 per cent, fit and in
form before being selected; a
“name” is not enough. Also,
with few exceptions, talent is
recruited from local teams,
which ensures complete district-
support. Thus springs that
almost fanatical will-to-win
which is part of the Collingwood
make-up—lB men playing all-out
for 100 minutes for the Black-
and-White, whatever their in-
dividual abilities.
* * *
Sydney Rugby Union compe-
tition-leader Randwick played
without vim for three parts of
its game with lowly Drum-
moyne, and trailed 6-19 ; then
the Greens, firmly adjusting their
hosiery, went over for three
tries, two converted, in the last
quarter-hour, to get out of it
with a 19-all draw. University
and Eastwood also played a 19-
all draw, with ’Wood getting a
try and goal in the last minute;
the Students led 16-3 at half-
time. (’Varsity, as a team, is
in sprinting class only; lately it
was beaten by Parramatta after
having had a 20-point lead at
the interval.) In a fast, pretty
hectic game, Gordon defeated
East 14-8 ; St. George, one short
most of the game, beat North
11-8 ; and Manly scalped Parra-
matta 21-6.
* * *
“Keima”: N.S.W. won three
of the four Rugby League games
with Queensland this year, but
all four were very close, and a
couple could have gone either
way. That goes for the fourth
of the series, in Brisbane last
Saturday ; spectacular and excit-
ing, it could, with a bit of luck,
have been won by Queensland.
Bit different from 20 or 30 years
ago, when the Northerners,
despite having stalwarts like
“Mick” Madsen, Heidke and
“Babe” Collins, were usually
beaten by N.S.W. by a cricket-
score margin.


Centenary of the Lover-Composer
The Story of
Robert Schumann
By S. W. KEOUGH
ONE HUNDRED YEARS
ago next Sunday (July
29) Robert Alexander
Schumann died at the age
of 46. He died in the arms of
his wife. It ended one of the
greatest love-stories of the 19th
century, and, in music, the most
fruitful husband - and - wife
partnership on record.
Schumann’s life ended in an
asylum at Endenich, outside
Bonn, capital of present West
Germany. He had then been
incarcerated there for two years,
but it was only in the last two
days that his wife was permitted
to see him. He was lucid enough
to know her, and put an arm
around her in a last farewell.
Later Clara recorded in her
diary: “I would not give the
memory of that embrace for the
world’s treasures.” A woman
with a character to match her
own remarkable musical gifts,
she had inspired him to write
some of the most beautiful music
in existence.
Robert Schumann was born
on June 8, 1810, at Zwickau, in
Saxony, a musically-rich district
which had produced Bach and
Handel, and in which three years
later Wagner was born.
Robert’s father, August, was
a book-publisher of some literary
attainments: he was translator
of, among other worki, Byron’s
Beppo and Childe Harold. While
he lived he encouraged his son
ift the study of both literature and
music, but on his death, when
Robert was 16, the mother and a
guardian decided that the boy’s
future lay in'the law. So to
Leipzig University, where, as a
studiosis juris , he opened the
piano far more often than he did
tomes on jurisprudence, and
his natural bent for the instru-
ment soon became apparent.
Next year he went on to
Heidelberg University, where,
after more unwilling years of
law-study, came the stroke of
luck. The head of the Faculty,
Professor Thibaut, celebrated
authority on Roman Law, found
his own chief relaxation in
music; and he advised Robert
to make music his career.
In a plea to his mother to
release him, Robert wrote:
“Jurisprudence so ossifies and
freezes me that no flower of my
imagination will ever again long
for the world’s spring.” The
mother threw the decision back
to the teacher from whom he had
first learned while at Leipzig,
Frederick Wieck, whose emphatic
judgment was that the young
man had the potentialities of a
great virtuoso.
Frau Schumann agreed; the
Law bowed itself out in favor
of the Muse, and 20-year-old
Robert began study in earnest
with Wieck, in whose house he
lived.
Then, a little over a year
later, apparent disaster struck
Schumann. He had been in the
habit of practising on a small
dumb keyboard, and to
strengthen the weaker fingers of
his right hand he used a device
(unknown to Wieck) by which
the third finger was held rigid.
The exact details of the device
have never been made clear, but
the result was that the finger
became permanently paralysed.
It was the end of all hope of
his becoming a concert-pianist;
but, as Beethoven’s deafness had
ended his established career as a
pianist before he was 30, so
Schumann turned by necessity to
composition.
Schumann, however, had by
no means finished with Wieck.
He had first entered Wieck’s
house for piano-lessons when he
was 18, and Wieck’s daughter,
Clara, was then a small girl of
nine, but preparing for her debut
as a pianist at the famous
Gewendhaus in Leipzig. This
proved so outstanding a success
that shortly afterwards her father
took her on a tour of Germany
and to Paris, and she was
acclaimed the greatest prodigy
of her day.
Clara was going on for 17, on
the threshold of a career that was
to place her in the front rank of
the world’s virtuosi alongside
Liszt and Thalburg, when
Schumann began to take his first
unpianistic interest in her.
Plaudits and praise from all over
Europe had left no mark on her
disposition. Their feelings for
each other quickly ripened—
Clara herself said long years
afterwards that she first began
to love Rpbert when she was 12.
The reaction by Wieck to the
first signs of the romance was
immediate and savage. He
ordered the composer out of his
house, forbade his daughter to
see him again or to enter into
any correspondence, and when
Schumann followed Clara to
Dresden, whence Wieck had
taken her to part them, her
father threatened to shoot him
if he again came within sight of
Clara.
As a young man Wieck had
apparently taken seriously to
religion ; had even taken orders ;
then, after preaching one sermon,
he abruptly left the Church and
took to teaching music.
Domineering, self-opinionated,
mean-spirited, he practised such
mental cruelties on his wife that,
after 10 years, she divorced him.
For four years Wieck stopped
at nothing in an endeavor to
break-up the romance between
Schumann and Clara; and it
grew steadily stronger. He
arranged long tours for her ; the
separation, for a man of
Schumann’s highly-strung nature,
given as he was to periods of
moody and sometimes
melancholy reflection, was the
worst possible thing for him.
+ +
On one of these occasions,
when no word had passed
between them for months, Clara,
in a recital she gave at the
Gewendhaus on her return,
played his “Symphonic Studies,”
and the manner of her playing
the work left no possible doubt
in the mind of her lover, who
was in the audience. In her diary
she wrote: “I had no chance of
showing you my inmost heart in
private, so I did it in public.”
They became engaged then, she
being 18. It added fuel to the
flames of Wieck’s fanatical
opposition. He began a
campaign of slanderous rumors
against Schumann, until his
daughter had to leave home.
The composer was forced at
last to the desperate resort of
the law-courts, not so much to
scotch the slander as to resolve
the opposition to the union. The
“law’s delays” of which Hamlet
complained ate up another year
of their lives before the case was
determined in Schumann’s favor.
They were married on September
12, 1840, the day before Clara’s
21st birthday.
When Schumann first turned
to composition on the shattering
of his piano-career he wrote for
the instrument he knew
intimately, and soon the first of
a steady stream of masterpieces
flowed from his pen, among them
the “Paganini Studies,” “Kries-
leriana,” the “Symphonic
Studies,” the exquisite “Scenes
from Childhood” and
“Carnaval.”
This latter work is typical of
Schumann’s sense of whimsical
humor and poetry. It is Com-
posed of 20 miniature sketches ;
some represent traditional
characters at a carnival, such as
Harlequin and Columbine,
Pierrot and Pantalon ; others are
of real / people—his friend
Mendelssohn, and Chopin, Clara,
even himself, all under fanciful
titles.
He himself appears as
Florestan and Eusebius, his two
pen-names: they were indicative
of the two sides of his character,
the first the impetuous
enthusiast, the other the quieter,
more introspective fellow.
“Carnaval” remains one of the
most charming piano-works
extant, full of haunting
melodies. It ends in a surge
of exuberance, the “March of the
Davidsbundler Against the
Philistines.” There is a story to
this last section.
Just after he began com-
posing, Schumann led some of
his young musical friends in a
campaign against the com-
placency with which so much
poor - quality music was
accepted. To further this he
founded the “New Journal for
Music,” Schumann being editor
and chief writer. His trenchant
attacks against the milk-and-
water criticisms of the day and
against the stilted conventions
that were clogging Italian opera
—“Butterfly-dust” was his terse
description of that then-decadent
form —quickly had the German
public sitting up and taking
notice. He built the paper up in
his 10 years’ editorship into the
most celebrated musical journal
in Europe.
He had freshness of style,
humor and a flair for epigram-
matic expression ... “The gentle-
men of the orchestra taste a new
composition as if it were a sour
apple”; of a carping critic:
“Music induces nightingales to
sing, lap-dogs to howl”; “He is
a good musician who under-
stands the music without the
score, the score without the
music”; of Bach’s rnusic:
“Everything is made as if for
eternity”; of the opera
“Euryanthe,” by Weber: “It cost
him a piece of his life.”
“Honey-daubing” was his
pithy term for the nothing-but-
praise type of critique.
The young intellectuals who
shared Schumann’s enthusiasm
for a new deal in music he
banded into the “David Club”
( Davidsbundler ). Their musical
enemies were the Philistines, the
old fogies who could see no merit
in anything new. The “March of
the Davidsbundler Against the
Philistines” thus epitomises in
crotchets and quavers his fight
with the pen against the powers
of reaction.
His campaign helped immeas-
urably to raise the standard of
musical taste. He was a powerful
propagandist for the works of
Bach and Beethoven ; he was the
first to recognise the worth of
Chopin; his famous phrase:
“Hats off, gentlemen, a genius!”
was a remarkable piece of
prescience, seeing that he used it
after hearing only one work, the
“La Ci Darem,” Opus 2, com-
posed by the Pole when he was
only 16. Later in his life he was
to make the greatest find in
music Schubert’s C Major
Symphony —from a heap of
dusty, neglected manuscript
which had been valued on the
composer’s death at the
equivalent of a few shillings!
The union of Robert and Clara
Schumann brought the best out
of both of them—-in character,
and in the enrichment of their
separate arts ; she the interpreter,
he the creator.
+ +
Robert’s wedding-gift to his
bride —the cycle of 26 songs
which he titled “Myrthen”
(Myrtles), myrtle-leaves being
worn by German brides in place
of the orange-blossom favored
by their English-speaking sisters
—contains some of his loveliest
songs: “Dedication,” the most-
sung and best-loved of any he
wrote; “The Nut Tree,” “The
Lotus-Flower” and “Thou Art
Like a Flower” (both set to
Heine poems), and “Thou Art
My Soul.”
Schumann himself called that
year, 1840, his “song-year.”
During it he composed more
than 100' songs, most of them of
lasting greatness and some com-
parable with the best of
Schubert, who in the field of the
lied alone surpassed him.
Schumann was a sovereign
example of a man supremely
well equipped for a special task,
arriving in history at exactly
the right time to take the fullest
advantage of it. The arch-
romanticist of music, he came
on the scene when Romanticism
was coming to full flower. It
was a spirit born in literature,
a revolt against a classicism
that had become stultified and
moss-grown.
In music it was sparked-off
by the poets, who were stepping-
up their passions to sizzling
voltages. Byron’s Manfred and
Goethe’s Sorrows of Werther,
filled with exotic sins and
morbid thoughts of suicide, had
in particular fired the young
intellectuals all over Europe.
Beethoven, the classico-
romanticist, handed on the new
torch to Schubert, the first of the
purely-romantic men of music,
but he was dead at 31, only 20
months after Beethoven. His
logical successor was Schumann,
who not only seized upon the
poems for his material but even
went to the novel for his inspira-
tions, for the novelists had
fertilised the movement potently.
Paris had at the time as fine
a collection of literary geniuses
as had ever congregated in one
place, among them Balzac, then
writing his gigantic Comedie
Humaine; Victor Hugo, divid-
ing his time between the novel,
the poem and the drama;
Dumas, most prolific of tale-
tellers; George Sand, the cigar-
smoking mistress of Chopin and
the poet Alfred de Musset
(among others); Prosper
Merimee, Madame de Stael,
Theophile Gautier, Stendhal,
Sainte-Beuve, Chateaubriand and
Lamartine.
Chopin, born the same year
as Schumann, and Mendel-
ssohn, born a year earlier —both
destined to die before they were
40—carried with Schumann the
banner of the young Romantics ;
but, because in music romance
can best be expressed in song,
in which the other two played
a minor role, Schumann became
the outstanding protagonist.
At the end of his “song-year”
the composer temporarily turned
aside from the song and devoted
his energies to other forms,
notably the symphony and the
string-quartet. Though less
facile here than with the lied
and the piano-music, he never-
theless wrought music that has
lived.
It is one of the paradoxes of
our present age, when it’s
fashionable to debunk romance
and extol in overblown
orchestral works the tonal
beauties of the brass-foundry,
that the music of Schumann,
steeped in young love, in the
beauties of fields and flowers
and the awakening of spring,
is as fresh and vigorously alive
—and as popular—as it has
been for over a century.
One reason —apart from such
undying qualities as the haunt-
ing beauty of the music—could
be that the songs remain a
challenge to the intellect, not
alone of the singer and the
accompanist (and his piano-
accompaniments are raised to
high status in the general
scheme) but also to the listener.
Schumann’s music has subtlety
as an extra ingredient; hidden
beauties are revealed often only
after repeated hearings. There
will always be singers and
audiences who will respond to
their eternal challenge.
Three years after the marriage
of Schumann and Clara, and
shortly after hediad finished a
big cantata, “Paradise and the
Peri” —a task that had left him
mentally exhausted—the pair
made a tour of Russia, she to
give a series of recitals. It was
midwinter, and the slow
journeys through that icy land
induced in the composer a
hypochondria. Shortly after
their return he began on a
setting of Goethe’s “Faust,” but
suffered a serious breakdown.
It was the first sign of the
organic nervous disease —its
exact nature has always been a
puzzle to doctors —that was for
the next 12 years to make slow
but inexorable inroads into
Robert’s mind., tnd before the
advance of which his art was to
retreat and to shrink, and finally
be brought to complete ruin.
The doctors suggested a
change of environment as the
only way to get the composer’s
mind back on art even keel; but
it was Clara who succeeded
where the change of locale —to
Dresden —had failed. She hit on
the device of fugal exercises,
each taking the same subject and
working on it separately, later
correcting their work together.
So effective was this “game”
of Clara’s that Robert was soon
sufficiently recovered to com-
plete his Piano Concerto, the
first movement of which he had
begun four years earlier. This
work, though overshadowed in
greatness by Beethoven’s last
three, remains the best-loved of
all the works in this form. He
even rose above the imperfec-
tions in the orchestral score
which mar .his essays in the
symphonic sphere, though, in
these there is always the engag-
ing nature of his melodies to
partly redeem them.
For the next five years he
alternated periods of worth-
while composing with terms of
increasing mental strain. There
were times when it even became
a physical torment as well, for
his ragged nerves gave rise to a
skin-condition which he him-
self described as “itching and
twitching in a hundred places
at once.” Despite this, he was
able to complete two more
masterpieces: his “Rhenish”
Symphony and the magnificent
“Manfred” Overture.
(Continued on page 34)


Fuith Ist the
Future
Britain’s First Sea Lord, Earl Mountbatten,
said in Australia recently that ships and aircraft
of the future would be moved chiefly by atomic
power.
America’s General James Doolittle mentioned
to us, as a casual fact, that nuclear propulsion in
the air was well within sight. *'
So a piece of radio-active rock, unused and
rejected for centuries, will be a source of untold
power in days to come. This is one of the great
unfolding mysteries of Creation.
For Australia it is also a reminder that one
of our increasing aims must be “mineral develop-
ment in a mineral age.”
We have uranium. Large deposits have been
proved in the Northern Territory, Queensland and
South Australia. While these are being worked,
surveys and prospecting continue in every State
for further bodies of radio-active ore.
Research into the development of atomic
energy for Australian industry has been brilliantly
started.
With all of this—the recovery of ore, the
training of research workers, engineers and
chemists —we have to press on; for vast advances
are being made overseas.
v Last February, President Eisenhower was able
to release from the American stockpile 88,0001 b.
of Uranium-235, worth £446 million, for use in
civil atomic projects throughout the world.
It is no fantasy, then, to say that within the
next 10 years, far areas of Australia will probably
be energised to new life by the supply of atomic
power.
The prospect for such benign employments
of this Servant of the Age seems closer now, when
the climate of the world is improving and all the
great Powers have been able to agree on the
formation of an International Atomic Energy
Agency to promote the exchange of nuclear
knowledge in power-provision, medicine, industry
and agriculture.
We are indeed at the edge of a new era—and
Man’s fuller possession of the earth is hinged on
the sharing of an atom!
//
ee'ittx,
y
m fiII*!BITISK
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
c o h t k fit 8 g mv a o a . i a i 8 o f
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE BRITISH COMMONWEALTH
HTHOUGHTS on the British
A Commonwealth of Nations
inspired by the conference of
Prime Ministers in London:
London “Observer”: “During
the three or four centuries that
the British were creating their
Empire they were also develop-
ing the revolutionary political
system of fully democratic repre-
sentative government. Gradu-
ally the two processes began to
influence each other. The loss
of the American colonies con-
vinced Britain that the demo-
cratic process being developed
at home must also be applied
abroad. Just as the British
upper-classes, with enlightened
self - interest, extended self-
government to the whole popu-
lation of this island, yielding
their monopoly of power but
preserving their own existence
(unlike the French aristocracy),
so did Britain come to treat her
overseas possessions.
“It became a maxim of our
Imperial policy that by granting
colonies self-government we
would retain their connection
with the United Kingdom ; and
it proved a winning idea. Of all
the former Imperial Powers,
Britain alone has succeeded in
developing a Commonwealth of
free and equal States that
formerly were in relation of
parent to child or master to
servant.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“The temptation to confuse
Commonwealth with Empire is
sometimes too strong for other-
wise sober minds to resist: yet
the difference is profound. A
nation can be forced into
becoming part of an Empire,
but it joins the Commonwealth
of its own free will.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“Commonwealth co-operation is
an undoubted reality, though it
does not always function when
and where it should. It is per-
haps in the field of trade and
finance that it functions most
steadily and universally.
“All the members of the Com-
monwealth except Canada are
within the sterling area—which
also includes some non-
members. This is a strong bond
of union, which ought, how-
ever, to be cemented by even
more consultation and ex-
changes of information than at
present.
“In matters of defence the
white Dominions co-operate, and
with them Pakistan, but India,
shortly to be followed by
Ceylon, maintains her independ-
ence of alliances and has a
somewhat different outlook on
world affairs from Britain and
London “Daily Mirror”
“FOLLOW THAT CAR!”
the predominantly British mem-
bers of the Commonwealth.
“Diplomatically, however,
these differences of outlook have
not stood in the way of useful
collaboration, and the exchange
of opinions at the conference
on the recent trends of events
in the Communist world should
be of great value.”
■* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“For Britain, the principal
advantage is that the Common-
wealth acts as a shock-absorber
as the old Empire crumbles
away piece by piece. The Com-
monwealth idea is a salve miti-
gating the national humiliation
that decline in Imperial glory
always brings in its train. The
Netherlands, and possibly
France, have good cause to
regret not evolving such a
euphemism themselves. That is
why it is so essential to Britain
that some formula should be
devised to meet the problem of
our still vital strategic bases.”
The same: “For the newer
members gaining complete inde-
pendence, the Commonwealth
represents at least a temporary
shield from some of the gusts
of world rivalry, both diplo-
matic and economic. This shield
can be strengthened, both by
revision of strategy to bring it
into line with political and
nuclear possibilities, and by new
methods of economic aid, as
well as by a more equitable
sharing of costs in both fields.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “How
can Britain help these new
nations?
“First of all by rejoicing at
and encouraging them in their
independence.
“Secondly by investing money
in them to show our confidence
in their future. This is a risk
which must be taken.
“Thirdly by dropping the title
‘Colonial’ to describe the great
Office of State responsible for
our still dependent territories.
At the moment Colonial and
Commonwealth affairs are kept
very much apart. The time is
coming when they should be
associated more closely.
“Fourthly by holding the next
Commonwealth Conference in
one of our great sister-nations.
Every other year this confer-
ence should be held outside
Britain. Every other year it
should be held here in London.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “It is argu-
able that the intervals between
conferences should be made
shorter and that the procedure
should be more formal. If this
were done a greater element of
continuity would automatically
result. This could apply with
special force to the economic
structure of the Common-
wealth.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”: “The
most constructive and original
thought at the present time
comes perhaps from India. Mr.
Nehru’s remarks in praise of
the Commonwealth, made at
the height of Mr. Khrushchev’s
visit to India, were not enough
weighed here.
“In many ways the Indian
thinking is new. It is time that
its outline was better known.
The Indian conception is that,
while in the past it was under-
standable that the prime interest
in the Commonwealth should
lie in trying to achieve, within
limits, a common foreign policy
among the self-governing units,
today this has been displaced. .
“The prime aim of the Com-
monwealth today, it is said in
India, is to maintain and de-
clare to the world certain general
conceptions about political be-
havior, most of them proceed-
ing from the principles of
freedom, toleration and
humanity. To preserve these
and extend their sway in the
world is the Commonwealth’s
first purpose.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Those who, like JVIr. Nehru,
Mr. Strijdom and now Mr.
Bandaranaike, seek to use it
[the Commonwealth] and exploit
it for their own devices as long
as it suits them and then flounce
noisily out of it, must be
brought up pretty sharp against
the views, the belief, the faith
of those who care for the Com-
monwealth, who have made
sacrifices for it, who have put
into its great vision the best they
know, whose sons have fought
and died for it.
“Hard thinking, as Mr.
Menzies is ceaselessly, point-
ing out, must be done
about the future of our
association of nations —hard
thinking in Delhi, Colombo and
Pretoria and here in London —
if we are not to be just a
scattered family but are to have
(as Mr. Menzies urged in a
powerful and moving speech to
the Royal Empire Society) ‘a
joint authority and moral force
that the w r orld sadly needs.’ ”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
whole political structure of the
Commonwealth is an astonish-
ing political achievement. Its
members are all ‘independent’
and are completely self-govern-
ing. All but two recognise the
British sovereign, Queen Eliza-
beth 11, as the chief of the State
and give allegiance to the
Crown. The two, India and
Pakistan, are independent re-
publics but recognise the Crown
as the symbolic head of the union
that exists within the Common-
wealth.
“The amazing factor in this
situation is that this by no means
impairs the actual entity of the
Commonwealth itself. It is
highly flexible. It has no central
bureau, no defence-command.
No one gives orders. It is a
free association of free peoples
who intend to remain free. For
that very reason the Crown can
be the symbol not of sovereignty
but of freedom. There was no
prototype for this structure, and
it has no exact counterpart. But
it is a political and moral reality
in the present world.”
Soviet—Two Views
The visit to the U.S. of West
German Chancellor Adenauer,
closely followed by that of
French Foreign Minister Pineau,
provided what New York
“Herald Tribune” describes as
“an interesting illustration of
harmonies and discords in the
Western alliance.”
Each agreed on the need for
continued Western unity, the
further development of Nato,
and the tie-up between German
unity and European security—
M. Pineau commented that “any
extensive reduction in armed
forces requires the concurrent
solution of major problems such
as the reunification of Germany.”
“Is there,” the “Herald
Tribune” asks, “any basic con-
tradiction between a healthy
scepticism concerning the
Soviet Union’s professions of
peaceful intent and a willingness
to expand contacts across the
Iron Curtain? M. Pineau, who
is ‘resolutely hostile to a Popular
Front,’ says no. He proposes
that increased communication


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Sfps
m
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
1
'
m
«\ \ \1
t;£. >
'■ y -yXy.
i
k
Hty advice "tb y&u
Excuse me for just a moment. There are one or two important
things I’d like to say and I’m, sure you’ll be interested.
I want to introduce Crusader’s new 1955-56 range of modern
suitings. I’ve seen some pretty attractive cloths in my time.
But, for quality, weave, distinctive patterns and pleasing
shades, these top them all.
For 47 years, the Crusader Mills have been producing cloth that
compares more than favourably with the world’s best. This
vear, however, they have excelled themselves.
/
Using only Pure Australian Fleece
Wool, they have created a wide,
rich range of suitings, every one of
which is guaranteed pure wool,
guaranteed to give years of hard
wear, and guaranteed never to fade
or shrink. In other words, guar-
anteed quality.
So, if you want the smartest suit
in town, take my advice ... ask
your tailor to show you the new
Crusader Pattern Book.
Special.
Selc^ iDn '
doubie warp
DOUBIJEWEFt
(ftusailet
J<uZu^L
Cmaiet Cloth
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
C 5.115
between East and West be con-
sidered as an experiment.
“‘What risk shall we have
incurred,’ he asks, “so long as
the community we have organ-
ised for security purposes
remains strong and our mutual
will to preserve our civilisation
continues unshaken?’ ”
The important differences
between the two visitors, the
“Herald Tribune” notes, were
that “the West German Chan-
cellor emphasised the need for
awareness by the free nations of
the Soviet Union’s continued
hope to impose ‘unlimited
dictatorship’ throughout the
world; France’s Foreign
Minister, on the other hand,
urged the re-establishment of
‘contacts with the countries of
the East, which until now have
wilfully isolated themselves,’ to
see to it ‘that our most essential
ideas penetrate into the Soviet
Union and the satellite countries.’
“Those qualifications, of
course, lie at the root of the
question. The danger of the new
Soviet economic and political
offensive is that it may weaken
Western security-arrangements
by making them seem un-
necessary. If the ultimate Soviet
goal of world conquest, unaltered
under a Stalin or a Khrushchev,
is kept clearly in mind ; if the
West remains strong and displays
vigor and imagination in seizing
the economic and political
initiative, the new ‘channels of
expression’ which, in M. Pineau’s
words, ‘are opening up’ between
the Soviet Union and the free
world need not be a one-way
avenue of Red propaganda. As
Mr. Dulles put it in San Fran-
cisco :
“ ‘lf we continue to show free-
dom as a dynamic, liberalising
force, then we need not fear the
results of' the peaceful competi-
tion which the Soviet rulers
profess to offer.’ ”
Long-range Aircraft
As the far-flung posts of
Empire become a little farther-
flung, strategic considerations
call for still-longer ranges from
aircraft, and, as London
“Financial Times” comments,
the situation has changed
materially in four or five years:
“Then we were still in the
Canal Zone, Cyprus was secure
and Enosis was exemplified by
bar-gossip and a few Greek flags
in the poorer streets. The jet-
transport required by the R.A.F.
needed no more than 2500-miles
range with its payload of
18,0001 b.
“The change in the strategic
situation last year resulted in
the cancellation of the y.lOOO
and the ordering instead of long-
range Bristol Britannia turbo-
props.
“This radically altered situa-
tion has yet another aspect.
Whereas a year ago the North
Atlantic route was the unique
long-range stage, it now becomes
Britain’s normal hop for travers-
ing the Commonwealth in the
isolation of war.
“East-about, the first stop is
at Aden, over 3500 miles, Singa-
pore (if still available) is another
4000 miles and Port Darwin 2100
miles beyond that.
“Since one flies to such places
non-stop due to some political
necessity—war, the carriage of
military goods, or reinforcement
—the use of alternative landing-
places will be denied one, so that
sufficient reserve-fuel must be
carried to allow for the
exigencies of weather, or of
mechanical failure necessitating
flying at an uneconomically low
altitude.
“This all adds up to the need
for aeroplanes with a still-air
range of 6000 miles. The later
Bristol Britannia will be just such
an aeroplane, firstly because of
the greater economy of its turbo-
props and secondly because it is
much less affected by any
enforced reduction in cruising
altitude.”
German Defence Bill
The bitter arguments in the
U.K. oyer the rearming of West
Germany have long since sub-
sided, and currently there is an
almost unanimous hostility in the
British press towards German
reluctance to pay support-costs
for British troops in Germany.
Originally the Bonn Govern-
ment was disinclined to pay any-
thing, but that attitude could
hardly survive the argument that
the country’s own defences
would be a long time in the
making, and that, in the mean-
time, it would have to depend on
the occupation - troops of
Britain, the U.S. and France.
Britain asked for considerably
less than the actual support-cost
of its forces in Germany, and
even that figure was whittled
down in the final agreement,
which moved London “Daily
Telegraph” to comment that it
was not surprising that “the
Minister for Defence [Sir Walter
Monckton] announced the
agreed amount with such
obvious distaste”:
“The figure is £l6 million
short of our [Britain’s] extremely
modest claim; we shall receive
not much more than one-fifth of
the cost of our forces in Ger-
many ; of the balance, about
£43 million must be paid in gold ;
and though any cash-payment is
an advance on the original atti-
tude of the Bonn Government
there is a terribly familiar taste
of a search to evade responsi-
bilities about it.
“It is true that the payment
has been fixed for the current
year only, but it would be foolish
to suppose that the amount will
increase in subsequent years.
“German defence-burdens are
still insignificant compared with
our own. The German economy
is extremely prosperous—there
is no question of incapacity to
pay.
“We have made a poor bargain
—rather worse, apparently, than
struck by the Americans and the
French. The blow to our pro-
gramme of economies will be
quite substantial. The only quid
pro quo, and that is quite vague,
is the prospect of Germany
placing armament orders with
British firms.
“It does seem a pity that more
reasonable terms were not pre-
cisely defined when the Occupa-
tion Statute was ended.”
To which Edinburgh “Scots-
man” added: “Germany appears
to be unloading part of a burden
which she ought to carry, for she
has hardly begun to build up her
contribution to Western defence.
“According to Sir Walter
Monckton, we have accepted this
settlement in the interests of
European solidarity. That seems
to mean that Germany would
simply have refused to pay more
whatever might be the conse-
quences. There is not much
evidence of European solidarity
in the German attitude.
“Sir Walter says that the right
to negotiate for the future on
merits has been kept open. But
this has to be read along with
the statement by Herr von
Brentano [the German Foreign
Minister] that no more support-
costs will be paid after this year’s
contribution. Clearly the Ger-
man Government does not wish
to go to the polls next year with
the necessity for justifying to the
electors further payments for the
upkeep of foreign troops.”
Soviet's New Look
A summary of the effects of
the Soviet’s “new look” by
David Gammans, British Con-
servative M.P., in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The Americans, like the rest
of us, hope that the dangers of
Russian aggression have passed,
but they doubt if it is anything
but a change of tactics, and they
are more interested in deeds
than in words. Britain still has
misgivings, but seems more
inclined to give Russia the
benefit of the doubt.
“Large numbers of people on
the Continent believe they can
do a deal with Russia from a
position of military weakness,
while countries like Ceylon and
Iceland obviously consider that
any fear of Russian expansion
has passed altogether.
“India, Burma and other
Asian countries are convinced
that the danger never existed at
all and that there is not much
to choose between the two
world-groups. Egypt and some
of her Arab neighbors are pre-
pared to profit by the situation
by playing off one Power against
another.
“We all hope there is a more
congenial wind coming from
Russia, but we must surely not
exclude from our calculations
that the whole business could
be a gigantic swindle. Direct
military aggression such as we
saw in the seizure of Czecho-
slovakia, the Berlin blockade
and the Korean war only served
to create Nato and rearm the
free world, and the realisation of
this fact may be the real reason
for the discrediting of Stalin.
“The new Kremlin policy
might hope to attain the same
end by sapping from within.
Russia, by encouraging the
growth of neutralism, playing
up to the forces of nationalism
and by suggesting that Nato, as
a military force, is out of date,
might achieve her declared ends
much more effectively.
“In this confused situation we
would do well to remember the
warning given by ex-President
Truman in London when he
said: ‘All who claim to have
been converted may not in fact
have cast out the old Adam,’ and
told us that ‘we and all our
friends and associates should
not be careless about our
strength and unity.’ ”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Production Costs
“In the ACT” says the Commonwealth
must take a substantial measure of
responsibility for our high production-
costs (B. 27/6/’56). Greater responsibility
rests on the N. S. Wales Government for
introducing the 40-hour week, granting
employees an additional week’s statutory
holiday, lifting the suspension on auto-
matic wage-adjustments, and permitting
indiscipline and go-slow in Government
services and public works.
The 1951 Federal so-called “horror”
Budget paved the way for a reduction in
costs, but the State, private enterprise and
its employees failed to co-operate. In the
three-year period 1952-55 many com-
panies reaped enormous profits, but failed
to lower prices to keep wages down.
Each industry seeks lower costs, but at
the expense of other industries lowering
their prices. Before an industrialist or
trade-union leader complains about the
inflation of production-costs or living-
costs let him answer this question: What
is my industry, or union, prepared to do
towards lowering costs and prices? If
his policy is to let the other fellow make
all the sacrifices, then he is just a
hypocrite.
Automation won’t solve our high-costs
problem if workers are going to absorb
all the additional profits in higher pay,
a 30-hour week, and easier going than
ever. —K. Me. (N.S.W.).
Augustan Dictatorship
I am surprised that such a distinguished
historian as Professor Arnold Toynbee
foresees the only hope for democracy's
survival in this atomic age in the dic-
tatorship of another Augustus. That
proposition is a complete contradiction
in terms. It presupposes that democracy
could continue to exist under a despot —
which would be the position, however
benevolent the despot’s intentions might
be.
The inherent and fatal fallacy, of
course, is that such an Augustus, if he
could be found ideally to meet all the
requirements of just and benevolent
dictatorship, could not be democratically
elected; he would have to be elevated
and maintained in power by a system of
political janissaries, a colossal praetorian
guard with, as a means of effective polic-
ing and punitive power, the monopoly
of an arsenal of atomic weapons. In this
nightmare world, the Latin proverb
Quis custodiet ipsos custodes? (“Who
will guard the guards?”) would pose the
unanswerable query.
Peace was the price for which ancient
Rome consented to the supremacy of
Augustus. As Virgil wrote:
Then battles o’er the world shall cease,
Harsh times shall mellow into peace.
Then Vesta, Faith, Quirinus, joined
With brother Remus rule mankind
Grim iron bolt and massy bar
Shall close the dreadful gates of War.
Under his supreme power, the whole
executive and judicial authority in matters
spiritual and temporal, human and divine,
was placed in the hands of the Emporer.
If for a time the people retained the show
of legislative power, it was a mere
shadow of the ancient sovereignty of the
people, since the legal tradition which
gave magisterial edicts the force of law
during the magistrate’s tenure of office
reduced every other kind of legislative
authority to an empty form when all
official power was centred in a person
who held office for life.
The historian Karl Hoeck sums-up the
political character of the Augustan Age
as follows:
“No law or election could be carried
through in opposition to the express will
of the Emperor, because he could invali-
date by his tribunician veto every asser-
tion of magisterial or popular authority ;
on the other hand, according to law, his
will was not sufficient to ensure the accep-
tance of a candidate or of a statute,
since the Emperor had no right to com-
mand either the Senate or the people.
“Nevertheless, this reciprocal limita-
tion and supplementation of the supreme
political authority existed in theory only,
not in fact. For where the legal compe-
tence of the Emperor came to an end, its
place was taken by a power of which the
Constitution took no cognisance, but
which held all political affairs in the
embrace of its mighty arm. This was the
effective sovereignty of Augustus, out-
flanking and controlling all other
authority, which broke down the bul-
warks erected against absolute govern-
ment and opened the way for the
despotism of his successors.
“The Senate , was composed of his
creatures, the populace was won over
by bread and games, the Army attached
to him by booty and presents ; and thus
he had in the curia an obedient instru-
ment of his schemes; the comitia were
the echo of his will, and the legions gladly
fulfilled the commands he gave. The
Senate and people might enjoy mean-
while the ancient forms of a free State;
they were but vain shadows when the
supreme head was minded to accomplish
his will.”
There is no message for humanity
haunted by the atom-bomb, no political
salvation for tormented world democracy,
in a new Augustan dictatorship.— Clem
Lack (Q.).
Government Cheques
“Dix” (B. 11/7/’56) can’t understand
why a big electrical undertaking would
not give change for a Government
pension-cheque. Possibly it had learnt
from experience.
There is no guarantee that the person
tendering such a cheque is the payee.
It is a common fallacy that Government
cheques are as good as gold—as many a
businessman has found to his cost.
One type of Government cheque that
“goes off” regularly is the tax-fefund.
In my boarding-house days, our mail was
left on a table near the front-door for us
to collect as we passed. My refund in its
easily distinguished envelope was picked
up by a fellow-boarder, and not for many
months did I learn what had happened.
By that time the light-fingered one had
vanished into the labyrinth of Mel-
bourne’s boarding-houses.
There is on record, too, at least one
case of a postman misappropriating
refund-cheques. Which all lends point to
“Look! Side-saddle !”
a sign I saw in a pub: “We have an
arrangement with the bank. We don’t
cash cheques, and they don’t sell beer.” —*
Cash Count (Vic.).
Public Servants
There s about as much basis for the
banal criticism of the public servant (B.
-0/6/ 56) as there is for classing ail
m 2 1 her ' l^' laws as tmsybodies.
The public servant licks no more stamps
than an insurance clerk, he deals with no
more files than are necessary for
efficiency. If he says “No” and means it,
he is an improvement on the businessman
with the modern tendency to say “Yes”
and mean “No.” The p.s. couldn’t
possibly be less obliging than the average
gentleman behind a counter, and don’t
“Nothing like it for an impacted wisdom-tooth
tell me that he’s the only one who dis-
cusses racing during working-hours.
As for that cup of tea he’s supposed to
have always at the ready, at least he
pays for it himself and has no swindle-
sheet on which to enter his morning-
coffee or lunch-at-the-club with the mate
who suddenly becomes a potential
customer of his employer.
Licking stamps, handling files, collect-
ing sick-pay, reading newspapers, passing
bucks, acting rudely, drinking tea,
accumulating superannuation, pushing
bells, initialling letters—none of these is
a pursuit reserved for the civil servant
alone. The only real difference between
the average public servant and the average
“other man” is that one is paid by the
Government, the other gets his money
elsewhere. — Geep (W.A.).
“The White Man’s Burden”
“C.C.C.” (B. 13/6/’56) need not have
gone to Fiji to find the discontents he
mentions. They can be found everywhere.
It is the prerogative of man to grumble,
and our colored brethren, wherever you
find them, have always been partial to the
strong drink which, according to
“C.C.C.,” opens the door to the white-
man’s naradise
There was ‘a time—happily in the
distant past—when the roving white man
intent upon trade in Darkest Africa used
cheap alcohol as his currency, with very
evil results. His bad reputation was
passed on to the more reputable officials
of local Governments who followed him,
but they lived it down in good time. But
the British colonist learned a lesson—if
the natives of any land we had to
administer wanted hard drink they would
have to rely upon their own traditional
booze. Most of them were able to manu-
facture a liquor of their own which would
soon put any white man under the table.
Today, because addiction to hard drink
is too easily learned by natives having
contact with white men, the new Powers
in Asia favor prohibition. They know
the dangers of strong drink. The Fiji
Islands possess a legislature and an
Executive Council, both mixed bodies
made up of British officials, Fijians and
the Indian colonists. If the dark-skinned
people of these islands are denied free
access to beer or whisky, it will certainly
be because the Government of the islands
knows it is not good for them.
, It ill becomes some of these folks to
talk about “freedom,” and it is unfortun-
ate that most of them have such short
memories. Indian migrants have been
settled since Victorian days, per ships of
the Nourse Line—sail and steam, and
known in days gone by as the “coolie
ships”—and wherever they have been
settled under the British flag they have
done themselves pretty well. In Africa
and the Pacific and Atlantic oceans th
were taken in to help develop backward
lands and islands. There were no slaves
—the doors of Mother India were always
Q p en to welcome them back when con-
tracts were finished, but most of them
knew w h en they were vyell off, and they
stayed.
Today Indian colonists outnumber the
Fiji Islanders and some day will no doubt
provide a problem just as they have done
in South Africa.
Our traducers will be quick to rise up
and blame Britain for “one of her
mistakes.” We have made many such
mistakes for which we are now beginning
to suffer. Ingratitude is quick to smother
gratitude, to forget the helpful develop-
ment of many lands undertaken in the
time of our Administrations. The people
forget, or perhaps have never known, that
many of these settlements were once
ridden with fever and disease. Today
they have become assets, and that is the
signal for the cry of “Freedom.”
The situation in Ceylon today may call
for cheers from the thoughtless in the
Fiji Islands who have never known any-
thing else but tolerant freedom. What
they do not know is that all the masses
are likely to get out of new freedoms
is a new set of masters, not always so
kindly benevolent as the old ones.
When it is necessary to do something
constructive for Fiji it will no doubt be
done, and the whisky-drinking white man
‘who pushes off the
With a skin darker than his ,
have an Y th ing t°, has
r eason this kind of E g „
een ° ut °* ate or at e
ce nt ur y.
+ Thereare too many people
today who only realise what is good alter
they have lost it.— Anglo-India (N.S.W.).
Butter
There is more in this cream-grading
t k an mee ts the eye. As “Agricola” points
out (g 4/ 7/ ’56), there are three grades
c f crea m with very little difference in
price. Does he know that there is only
one quality of butter?—the testing is done
by tasting and the cream is then all
poured together.
j n short, the grading is a farce. Of
course it’s not good for the export-trade,
One of the main overhauls needed is in
the butter-factories,
Another urgent reform needed is an
equalising of the prices of milk and
butter. The return from milk is twice that
from butter—with less work. The milk*
producer’s lucrative business obscures the
butter-producer’s struggle. A balance
should be struck with one half of the
industry helping the other,
A dairyfarmer can only work about a
60-acre farm and live. To try to live on:
60 acres, growing beef, sheep or gram,
as “Agricola” suggests, would be absurd.
—J. J. A. (Vic.).


IPSWICH GRAMMAR SCHOOL
FOUNDED 1863
FIRST OF THE NINE GREAT PUBLIC SCHOOLS
IN QUEENSLAND
m * iMsst
mm
wm
PRIMARY TO MATRICULATION
LIMITED VACANCIES FOR BOARDERS FOR 1957
APPLY NOW
Applications Also Accepted for 1958 and 1959
PROSPECTUS ON APPLICATION TO THE HEADMASTER
C. E. OLSEN, B.Sc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
WOOL TECHNOLOGY
SOME work was commenced
in Australia in the 1930’5, but
full emphasis was not given to
wool-technology until the end of
World War 11. There was then
a large accumulation of stored
wool (nearly eleven-million
bales; equal to one full
season’s world-production), and
the total production of artificial
fibres had exceeded the available
supplies of clean-wool.
To put the wool-industry on
a sound footing the Common-
wealth Government passed the
Wool Use Promotion Act in
1945 and the Wool Industry
Fund Act in 1946. These rein-
forced the Wool Publicity and
Research Act of 1936 and made
substantial sums of money
available to promote the use of
wool and for research into wool-
production and wool-textiles.
In 1945-46, for example,
£85,000 was spent on sheep- and
wool-research; today the figure
exceeds £500,000, excluding
expenditure on wool-processing
research.
This financial support should
bring big advances in wool-tech-
nology. Already, myxomatosis
has resulted in a 72-million-
pound increase in the 1952-53
clip alone. At 7s. a pound, that
meant over £25 million to Aus-
tralia. Scientific study on the
sheep-blowfly has also produced
impressive results; it probably
saves the country about £l5
million a year.
Many sheep-diseases, including
the important black-disease,
have been controlled, and
scientific study of drought-feed-
ing has shown that, with mobs of
sheep on sub-maintenance diet,
it is more profitable and humane
to feed them once or twice a
week than to spread their ration
over seven days.
How much the sheep-industry
already owes to pasture- and soil-
investigations cannot be esti-
mated yet—although much has
been done, only a beachhead has
been established. An example of
progress in this field is the
discovery that compounds con-
taining the minor-elements
copper, cobalt and zinc added at
the rate of 71b. to the acre or
less, together with superphos-
phate, enable land regarded as
largely valueless to carry ane-
and-a-half to two sheep to the
acre.
Many different groups of
workers are contributing to the
research-programme. Work at
the School of Wool Technology
has involved a study of the
relationship of sheep to their
environment and made some con-
tribution towards a better under-
Many graziers who
recommend the use
of Elastrator Rubber
Rings for the mark-
ing of lambs do so
because they have
observed that lambs
so marked suffer no
set-back. This is sup-
ported by the com-
ments of one promin-
ent user who states—
“ After twenty min-
utes lambs show no
sign of having been
done and leave the
yard and mother up
better, showing no ill
effects.”
standing of what affects utility-
values of various wool-types of
sheep.
Briefly, it has been found that
where sheep get sufficient to eat
to grow a heavy fleece of 111 b-
. of greasy wool, strong-
wool types (60’s) cut 3i-lb. more
per head than fine-wool types
(74’s) running in the same flock.
On the other hand, with poor
native-pastures running sheep
which clip only 51b.-61b. of wool
there is no loss of weight with
even the superfine types (80’s).
Improved-pastures, efficiently
stocked with sheep clipping 91b.-
1 lib. per head, show llb.-l|lb.
differences in favor of stronger
types, and this just makes up for
the lower price of such wools.
It follows that under good
conditions, it is more profitable
to select for strong-wool types,
whereas the most economic
return from fine- and superfine-
wools can only be expected
where feed is relatively scarce.
Improved-pasture tends to
change the situation from where
it pays to grow fine wool, to one
where fine wool and the stronger
types both give much the same
return per head. There is noth-
ing inconsistent between im-
proved pastures and fine wool;
more fine wool could, and
would, be grown if the wool-
trade paid enough to make up
for the lower clip per head, or,
in some cases, for the higher
mutt on-value of the sheep which
grow the stronger types of wool.
Pasture-improvement not only
increases the wool-return per
head but permits greatly in-
creased carrying-capacity, thus
increasing yields per acre. Since
"‘feed-cost” increases for each
successive pound of wool pro-
duced per animal, under certain
conditions on . well-improved
pastures it is more economical to
run a greater number of lower-
producing animals than to seek
those last extra “high-feed-cost”
pounds of wool from fewer high-
producing sheep. This is yet
another refinement of manage-
ment permitted by pasture-
improvement.
A conference held by
C.SJ.R.O. in May, 1954, recom-
mended : “That the use of
fleece-measurements in selection
[of Merinos] would result in a
substantial increase in the rate
of flock-improvement. Such
selection was practical in the
Merino-industry in Australia,
and was already in operation in
some flocks.”
The implication of the
methods advocated was that “the
rate of improvement of Merino
sheep would be doubled,” and to
make these methods available to
the industry in N. S. Wales the
School of Wool Technology has
inaugurated a flock-testing
service.
The main purpose of flock-
testing is to improve the accuracy
of selection for wool; it is com-
plementary to the existing
methods of selection and culling
used by the industry.
Since appearance is not always
a good guide to production, the
mistakes made in picking the
best (and worst) producers slow-
up the rate of improvement. It
is easy for a classer to pay undue
attention to striking character-
istics which may be of greater
importance in breed-type than
in productivity; also, it is diffi-
cult to maintain a constant
standard of culling when an
operator is fatigued.
In contrast, the flock-test lays
down certain standards which
“I’m a bit old-fashioned , perhaps, but I still like ’em with a decent chassis."
can be accurately maintained
within a flock. The standards
are concerned with:
(a) The constitutional ability of
the sheep to survive, produce
and, with ewes and rams, repro-
duce.
( b ) The quantity of wool
produced.
(c) The quality of the fleece in,
first, such commercial-appraisal
features as quality-number,
character, color and handle, and,
second, in measurable charac-
teristics such as fibre-diameter,
staple-length and crimps-per-
inch.
Flock-testing does not replace
normal classing. It is a practical
technique that does not interfere
with normal shearing-procedure.
In practice, the amount of
detailed recording varies with the
importance of the sheep. Top
stud-rams, for example, would
be examined in great detail,
whereas flock-ewes are subjected
to the minimum test of a primary
culling for constitutional defects,
followed by fleece-weighing and
commercial appraisal.
The methods can also be used
by the flock-man who breeds no
rams, but can gain from the life-
time improvement of his young
ewes. Similarly, the small stud-
property which breeds enough
rams to supply its own require-
ments will benefit from testing of
young rams and ewes.
The most widespread and effi-
cient effect on the industry,
however, will come from the
large stud-property which allows
its potential top rams and ewes
to be tested. If this stud is
making real progress in im-
proving wool-production the
benefit will be diffused through
the flocks which purchase rams
from it to the grade-flocks which
depend on the studs for almost
all their genetic improvement.
In the past, research-workers,
teachers, extension - workers,
agricultural-journalists, valuers,
managers of estates and other
professional workers for the
pastoral-industry, have been
largely drawn from university-
courses in traditional subjects,
such as pure-science, engineering,
agriculture and veterinary-
science. More often, their train-
ing has been at diploma- and
certificate-level in agricultural-
and technical-colleges without
matriculation-standard of entry.
In far too many cases senior
workers have had no opportunity
for tertiary education, and their
knowledge, usually highly
specialised, comes from long
practical experience and from
personal contacts in the industry.
This is especially true in wool-
commerce, where men aspiring to
the highest positions in wool-
broking and woolbuying must get
a substantial part of their train-
ing outside of formal instruction,
or spend a year or more in an
overseas wool-centre, such as
Bradford, Leeds or Boston.
The degree-course in wool-
technology aims to provide a
pool of graduates with a liberal
scientific outlook, and the habit
of exact and logical thought.
These men will be familiar with
the latest developments in fields
relating to wool-production,
wool-commerce and wool-use.
They will also be good practical
men, capable of handling wool
and recognising its technical
characteristics.
A relatively recent report, pre-
pared by an expert of the Aus-
tralian Wool Realisation Com-
mission, emphasises the lack of
sufficient liaison between scien-
tific organisations and experts in
the growing, selling and manu-
facture of wool. One broad aim
of the wool-technology course is
to link producers, buyers and
users of wool. On machines of
the textile department, for
example, trainees will be able to
follow particular lots of wool
(Continued on page 33)
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There's a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


A
Number
Value
£
GROSS SALES
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
500
50
70
1,400
400
500
KILLED FOR
RATIONS
Sheep
Cattle
Pigs
30
/
48
*COST
STOCK A T»Tri*T»
ON HAND 30/6/’56
*Strike out whichever is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
9,400
448
7
46
12,220
2,688
80
23
LOSSES BY DEATH,
ETC.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
70
2
14
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section B
10,637
Total value Section A
■
£17,359
B
jjt
*COST
STOCK k T»T7"r*nr
J .J M.
ON HAND l/7/’55
* Strike out whichever is not
applicable.
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
5,000
100
5
50
8,000
400
50
45
PURCHASES—
AT COST
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
2,000
300
2
4,400
2,500
30
NATURAL INCREASE
Sheep
Cattle
Horses
Pigs
3,000
100
80
Total number should agree
with total number in
Section A
10,637
Total value Section B — Deduct
£15,425
Note —The profit on Livestock Account is £1,934,
i.e., Section A £17,359, less Section B £15,425
PRIMARY PRODUCERS' INCOME-TAX GUIDE
[Specially prepared by a Bulletin expert ]
A primary producer is a person who carries on the business of a grazier, wheat-farmer, poultry-farmer,
apiarist, orcbardist, sugar-planter, market-gardener, oyster-grower, etc., but not 'that of a fisherman. The classi-
fication of a person as a primary producer is not disturbed if he derives only part of his income or incurs a
loss by carrying on a business of primary production, e.g. a ‘Titt-street grazier.” Partners and beneficiaries,
where the partnership or trust is engaged in a business of primary production, are also classified as primary
producers.
Income-tax returns of primary producers for the year ended June 30, 1956, should be completed on Form “B”
and lodged by August 31, 1956, irrespective of the amount of profit or loss. The Commissioner of Taxation
will grant an extension of tune beyond that date if a reasonable explanation is given to him in writing.
Income tax and social-services contribution are levied on taxable income, which is gross income less allow-
able deductions.
Unless a primary producer lodges with his income-tax return an election in writing that he does not wish
the averaging provisions to be applied in his assessment, or unless his taxable and average income BOTH exceed
:£4,000, the averaging provisions will apply. Under these provisions the taxable income of the current year is
L.;»«sre<a*l at the rate applicable to the average income, which is the average of the five years, consisting of the
year erf income and the four preceding years.
The mating of an election to eliminate the averaging provisions may prove an advantage where current
Income is less than average income and a primary producer expects to retire from business within several years.
The following provisions relate to income earned in every part of the Commonwealth by a resident of any
State.
GROSS INCOME
• Gross income consists of payments and allowances
received in money or kind for work done, profits from
any business activity, and income from investments.
Examples are: —
1. Profits from wool, wheat and produce. See separate
heading.
2. Profit on livestock transactions as calculated in Live-
stock Account.
3. Agistment fees and timber royalties.
4. Bounties, subsidies and drought-relief.
5. Gross earnings from contracts, cartage or other work.
6. Insurance claims received for loss of livestock, crops,
etc.
[Note: The taxpayer may elect, when lodging his
return, to have insurance-recoveries on livestock losses
spread over a period of five (5) years.]
7. Market value of live or other trading stocks given
away.
8. Depreciation allowances in previous years to the extent
recovered by sales of permanent assets.
9. Salaries, directors’ fees and other earnings by the
primary producer.
10. Interest, rent and dividends received by him.
O Gross income does NOT include: —
1. Surplus of proceeds from sales of permanent assets
over original costs.
2. Value of fodder purchased or produced for own use
and on hand at year-end.
3. Gifts received, other than for services rendered, includ-
ing legacies from deceased estates.
4. War-service, old-age, widow’s or invalid pensions.
5. Income-tax refunds.
6. Bonuses on insurance policies.
7. Dividends from goldmining shares.
ALLOWABLE DEDUCTIONS
• Expenses and losses incurred in gaining or producing
gross income, or necessarily incurred in running a business
for that purpose, are allowable deductions. Examples
are: —
l. Operating Expenses
a. Salaries and wages paid to employees, pay-roll tax,
and cost of food for business employees.
b. Rent (excluding that for private residence), rates,
agistment fees, hire of plant and equipment.
c. Repairs to plant and equipment used in primary
production, but not repairs to own residence.
d. Car expenses, including petrol, oil, repairs and regis-
tration.
e. Power, fuel and light, except that used for private
purposes.
f. Seeds, fodder and fertilisers.
g. Livestock expenses, including veterinary fees, shearing,
crutching and droving, licks, vaccines, medicines and
breeding service-fees.
h. Selling expenses, including cost of bags, woolpacks,
cases, commission, cartage, freight, advertising and
storage.
*. Travelling expenses, excluding those of a private
nature.
/. Insurance on vehicles, plant and equipment, stock and
crops, and workers’ compensation (excluding domestic
servants in private residence).
k. Cost of communication, except that of a private nature.
1. Interest on borrowed money used in the business.
m. Accountancy fees, bank charges, replacement of small
tools, subscriptions to trade organisations, etc.
«. Depreciation. See separate heading.
2. Special Capital Expenditure
a. Eradication or extermination of animal or vegetable
pests from the land.
b. Destruction and removal of timber, scrub or under-
growth, indigenous to the land.
c. Destruction of weed or plant growth detrimental to
the land.
d. Preparation of land for agriculture and ploughing and
grassing for grazing.
e. Draining swamp or low-lying land to improve the
agricultural or grazing value of the land.
f. Preventing or combating soil-erosion, other than by
erecting fences.
g. Construction of dams, earth tanks, underground tanks,
irrigation-channels or the sinking of bores and wells
to conserve or convey water for use in primary
production.
h. Construction of levee-banks or similar improvements,
t. The cost of purchase and erection of wire and wire-
netting for pest-prevention purposes.
[Note: The cost of special plant and equipment for
the above operations is not an allowable deduction,
but is subject to normal depreciation allowance.]
3. Personal and Family Allowances
a. The following table sets out the maximum deductions
allowed for dependants who are residents of Australia
and whose separate net income does not exceed the
specified limits. The phrase “separate net income’'
includes exempt income ( e.g., “tax-free” dividends),
but it does not include a legacy under a will, house-
keeping allowance or pin-money. Where the depend-
ant is a wife, husband or daughter-housekeeper, the
deduction is reduced by £2 for each £1 by which
the separate net income of the dependant exceeds
£65, and it vanishes if the dependant’s separate net
income exceeds £129. The deduction in respect ot
a child under 16 years, a student child and an invalid
relative is reduced in each case by £2 for each £1 by
which the dependant’s separate net income exceeds
£52. Proportionate deductions are allowed for depend-
ants who are maintained during part of the year only.
The income derived by a woman prior to her marriage
during a year of income is not taken into account
in the calculation of the proportionate deduction
allowable to her husband for that year:—
Maximum
Deduction
(1) Spouse—wife or husband .. .. £l3O
(2) Daughter-housekeeper of widow or
widower, provided she is wholly
engaged in keeping house for the
taxpayer . .. .. .. .. £l3O
(3) One child under 16 years .. .. £7B
(4) Each other child under 16 years .. £52
(5) Student child—between 16 and 21
years, receiving full-time education
at a School, College or University .. £7B
(Note: Deduction reduced by value of
any assistance given by Common-
\ wealth or State in connection
with education of child.)
(6) Invalid relative child, stepchild,
brother or sister not less than 16
years, and in receipt of invalid pen-
sion or certified by Department of
Health or approved medical practi-
tioner as being permanently incapaci-
tated for work .. .. .. .. £7B
(Note: Deduction reduced by the
amount of invalid pension.)
b. Father or mother .. .. .. .. £l3O
(Note: Deduction reduced by the
amount of the parent’s separate
net income, which would include
an age pension.)
c. Housekeeper —if wholly engaged in keeping
house for taxpayer and has care of children
under 16 years or invalid relative .. .. £l3O
d. Medical expenses—paid in respect ot the
taxpayer, his wife and children under 21
years, daughter-housekeeper, invalid rela-
tive, mother or father, to doctors, nurses,
hospitals, chemists, opticians, dentists
(limited to £3O per person) and for the pro-
vision of hearing-aids, artificial limbs, etc.
Maximum per person .. .. .. .. £l5O
Note: (a) Expenses in respect of
daughter-housekeeper, invalid
relative, mother or father are
not deductible if the deduc-
tion as a dependant is not
also allowable.
(b) Expenses recouped by a
Government, public author-
ity, society or association
should be deducted from the
gross claim.
e. Funeral expenses—maximum .. .. £3O
f. Premiums paid on life assurance and per-
sonal accident and sickness policies, pay-
ments to superannuation funds, and to
medical- or hospital-benefit funds, in
respect of the taxpayer, his wife or children
(no age-limit). Maximum deduction .. £2OO
g. Education expenses —amounts paid for or in
connection with the full-time education at
a school, college or university or from a
tutor in respect of a dependent child under
21 years. This deduction includes school
fees, cost of board and accommodation,
fares to and from school, college or univer-
sity, text-books, stationery and uniforms.
Maximum deduction per child .. .. £75
h. Gifts of £1 and upwards to certain charities.
i. Rates —water and council —paid on private
residence.
7. Calls paid on shares in mining companies.
[Deduction is limited to one-third of the amount of calls
(which do not include application and allotment money)
paid on shares in companies carrying on, as their prin-
cipal business, mining or prospecting operations in Aus-
tralia for gold, silver, base metals, rare minerals or oil
and in companies carrying on, as their principal busi-
ness, afforestation in Australia.]
4. Trading Losses
Trading losses of the previous seven years are allowable
deductions in the current year to the extent that these
losses have not been absorbed by profits. Personal and
family allowances are not deductible in arriving, at the
amount of a trading loss.
DEPRECIATION
• Primary producers may elect to calculate deprecia-
tion on their working assets by the “prime-cost” or
“diminishing-value” method. Under the “prime-cost”
method the same amount of depreciation is allowed each
year until the cost of the assets has been eliminated. The
“diminishing-value” method provides for the annual
allowance to be calculated on the written-down value at
the beginning of each year. Written-down value is cost,
less depreciation allowed to date. Depreciation on assets
purchased on time-payment can be calculated on total
cost, including interest-payments, or on cost excluding
interest-payments. In the latter case, the interest-payments
can be claimed as allowable deductions from gross income.
Depreciation is allowed on an ‘‘extent-of-use” basis in respect
of assets used for both business and private purposes.
Q A • special 20% annual depreciation allowance (calcu-
lated on cost) is granted to primary producers on structural
improvements, plant, machinery and equipment, excluding
motor-cars. This allowance applies where the asset has been
purchased after June 30, 1951, and installed by June 30, 1956.
In the case of structural improvements, it also applies where
the Improvements have been commenced before June 30, 1956,
and completed by June 30, 1957.
The allowance is granted in respect of residential accom-
modation erected on the property for employees, subject to a
maximum cost of £2000 per employee.
• Depreciation on plant and equipment purchased prior
to June 30, 1951, is allowable at the following rates: —
Motor vehicles and lorries .. .. 15%
Buggies, sulkies, drays and wagons 10%
Motor tractors .. .. .. .. .. ,. ., io%
Boring plant .. .. io%
Agricultural implements .. 10%
Windmills .. .. .. .. 5%
Barns and stables—
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. ., 2%
(ii) Wood and/or iron .. 3%
Woolsheds—
(i) Stone, brick or cement .. .. .. .. 1J%
(ii) Wood and/or iron .. .. .. ,. .. 2%
Iron grain-silos 3%
Fences [excluding those allowable as Special Capital
Expenditure (item i.) ] .. .. .. .. ., 3%
WOOL, WHEAT & PRODUCE ACCOUNTS
These accounts include gross sales for the year, the value of
produce used by the taxpayer, his family and employees, and
the values of stock on hand at the beginning and end of the
year.
Unsold wool, wheat or produce on hand at June 30, 1956,
must be valued at cost, market selling-value, or cost of
replacement at the option of the taxpayer. “Cost” in the
case of shorn wool is the cost of shearing. The deduction
allowed for the value of each of these items on hand at
July 1, 1955, must agree with the value at June 30, 1955, as
shown in last year’s return.
LIVESTOCK ACCOUNT
LIVESTOCK ACCOUNT
• Primary producers have the option of valuing
livestock on hand at the end of each financial year
either at “cost” or at “market selling value.” The
method of valuation selected, should be stated in
writing at the time of lodgment of the first return,
and cannot be changed unless approved by the Com-
missioner in special circumstances.
The “cost” method of valuation, which is generally
regarded as more satisfactory, has been followed in
the above example. Under the “cost-price” method,
livestock on hand at the end of the financial year and
livestock killed for rations are valued at the average
cost of stock on hand at the beginning of the year,
purchases during the year, and natural increase, which
for this purpose may be valued at any amount per
head not less than the following miniinum values: —
Sheep 4/- per head
Cattle .. .. .. £1 „ »
Horses .. .. .. £1 „ ,,
Pigs - 5/- „ „
Sheep on hand at June 30, 1956, in the above
example have been valued at £1/6/- per head, calculated
as follows: —
Stock on hand at l/7/’55 .. .. 5,000 8,000
Purchases .. .. .. .. .. 2,000 4,400
Natural increase at 4/- 3,000 600
10,000 13,000
13,000
Average cost per head .. .. .. £- = £1/6/-
10,000
0 If the whole or any part of livestock on hand at
the end of the year can be identified as livestock on hand
at the beginning of the year, purchases or natural increase
during the year, it is permissible to value the livestock
so identified at ‘'actual cost” instead of ‘‘average cost.
Selected values for natural increase would in these
circumstances be taken as actual cost.


THE
BUNYIP
LEVEL
Simplel Accurate!
Foolproof! Fast!
mm*
■
* i'
i | ft
Rsading the Bunyip Level. Atmosphere
buttons pressed in.
Ideally senes
FARMERS, GRAZIERS,
ENGINEERS, PLUMBERS,
BUILDERS, LANDSCAPE
GARDENERS, ROAD
BUILDERS, BULLDOZER
OPERATORS . . .
—and anyone who needs to find a
level for laying in contours, sloping
drains or to determine a variation
in height. It is very suitable for all
levelling work necessary in farm
dam construction. Levels can be
laid in at any distance apart from
zero to 50 feet.
Showing atmosphere button ami tube in
position.
The Bunyip Level is as simple to
operate in the hands of a 10-year-
old as the qualified engineer. It
cannot get out of adjustment and
is a thoroughly efficient instrument
for use in all general construction
work—which normally needs an
expensive levelling instrument
requiring technical skill.
The Bunyip Level complete
is remarkably low priced at
£ll/17/6
(INCLUDING FREIGHT)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
537 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
MX2515
Agents throughout Australia.
Bill in Coupon and send to us for
full fact® of the BUNYIP LEVEL.
NAME
ADDRESS
the *•** of
Down com®
building •••
pt& N l Ilf
lD^
#<>24*
pthH
O' I ***
tto
rf*>®
R«*
ftOO*
etc
“V 5
Writs to Wunder-
lich Ltd., Dept.
“D," Box 474,
G.P.0., Sydney, for
Lcopy of SMALj.
HOMES BOOK. J
WHEN YOU USE "DURABESTOS"
FOR EXTERIOR WAILS. INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS,
&get right down to bedrock cost. You gain
ways, because you obtain a modern, colour-
ful home, a home that is attractive, permanent
and just right for Australian living conditions.
Easy to handle, your carpenter quickly fixes
"Durabestos" Asbestos-Cement Wall and Ceiling
sheets for you—there is no waiting on other
trades. No waiting for "Durabestos" either, as
ample stocks are held by authorised timber and
hardware merchants.
*DURABESTOS'SSSSSHEITS
through all processing-operations
and see for themselves the effect
in manufacture of characteristics
apparent in the raw material.
The course consists of four-
years’ full-time study. The first
year covers basic training in
general science, and the second
and third years are for vocational
subjects essential to all branches
of the wool-industry. In the
final year students may specialise
in wool-production or wool-
commerce. Fourth-year work
will include a project to give each
student opportunity to show
initiative and originality. It is
hoped that association with lec-
turers and teachers engaged in
research already under way will
enliven curiosity and interest in
students. The greater part of the
first- and second-year work will
be common to the degree in
textile-technology when this is
established.
Students must spend at least
a year on approved properties
to appreciate production-condi-
tions. They can normally do
this in their vacations during the
four years of the course.
Graduates of the course will
be the wool-technologists of the
future. The technological
approach in the last 20 years has
already been justified by results,
and the future holds challenging
problems. Increased burr- and
seed-content and the occurrence
of “tender” wool are problems
which, today, seem no nearer
solution than the rabbit- and
blowfly-problems were 15 years
ago. But these, and many other
problems facing the pastoral-
industry, will be solved by
science in the future.
C. L. Goldstone.
"Safflower"
“Aeolus”: An interesting
experiment is being made at
Waite Agricultural Institute
(S.A.) in the cultivation of a
weed found growing in the
locality.
The late Dr. Horowitz, former
plant-geneticist at the institute,
discovered the weed growing in
a gutter, hybridised it, and over
a period of years developed a
plant which may well be a rival
to flax.
The plant has been named
“safflower.” Seeds yield an edible
oil, and the fibres are superior to
flax in many ways; one of the
main advantages is that the plant
does not clog the machinery in
harvesting. Roots decay readily
in the ground and do not inter-
fere with subsequent cultivation.
Turkey Raising
“B.”: Some of the biggest
turkey-farms in Australia are on
the Speck, and the reason isn’t
hard to find —the island is free
from foxes.
This factor has caused some
farmers to shift from the main-
land ; one I know making a
success of things in Tassie has
tried every State.
Although the feeding of
turkeys differs from feeding
other poultry, they have one
thing in common: they should
be allowed free range in sunny
weather.
One of the musts in the big
bird’s ration is manganese-
sulphate, a corrector of defici-
ency-diseases. From day-old to
12-weeks the following mixture
is recommended: ground-wheat,
251 b.; bran, 201 b.; ground-
hulled-oats, 201 b.; maizemeal,
201 b.; meatmeal, 151 b.; salt con-
taining manganese-sulphate, \\b.
The last-named ingredient is
arrived at by mixing lib. of the
mineral with 40lb. salt.
From 12-weeks on to market-
ing age good results will come
from the following ration:
pollard, 451 b.; bran, 301 b.;
ground-oats, 101 b.; meatmeal,
151 b.; salt (with manganese
added), lib.
Excellent results also can be
expected from turkey-pellets (or
calf-pellets) as an alternative to
these rations, but they are more
expensive.
See that alternate or rotational
paddocks are provided for the
free use of the birds. These areas
become quickly contaminated
and the only way to clean them
up is to expose them to the
weather for 12 months. Com-
plete disinfection will be
achieved if the paddock is
spelled for two years. One acre
should be available to each 200
birds to avoid overcrowding.
A dry-mash should always be
available, with a wet-mash fed
twice a day, reducing this latter
to one at the end of three weeks.
After the birds are a few days
old a little finely-chopped green-
food can be added to the wet-
mash, and some may be fed
separately.
If available, use skim-milk
liberally both for mixing the
mash and for drinking purposes.
Also useful is a little cracked
grain in the evenings, and at the
end of six weeks whole wheat
and oats, with cracked maize. It
is also important that fresh
green-food, shell-grit and clean
drinking-water should be pro-
vided always.
Turkey-rearing isn’t easy in
the early stages, but with
patience and perseverance all
your trouble will be well
rewarded.
Forced-air Drying
“Sundowner”: Studies by U.S.
Department of Agriculture
indicate that the efficiency of
drying grain with forced air is
markedly influenced by struc-
ture-design.
The research (demonstrates
that drying is most efficient when
the air flows directly through the
grain from the point of air-intake
to the point of exhaust.
More direct flow, the
researchers say, can be achieved
by the use /of perforated floors,
or by increasing the number and
reducing the spacing between
air-supply ducts. Generally,
these changes would mean more
expensive storage-buildings to
build or buy. However, the
greater drying-efficiency afforded
would permit a reduction in the
capacity and the power-require-
ments of the fan used to move
air through the grain. Or, if the
fan-capacity were kept
unchanged, more grain could be
dried with the same power.
The observations plainly
demonstrate that under forced-
air drying, stored grain does not
dry simultaneously throughout
the structure. Instead, drying
proceeds on a “front,” first when
air contacts the grain, last where
air is exhausted.
When air is introduced only at
intervals, so that much of the
drying-air must follow curved
paths through the grain, drying
along these fronts will be slower
than that occurring along the
straight-line path of air flowing
directly from intake to exhaust.
Drying in such storages is com-
pleted only when the grain along
the most devious air-flow is dry.
This was shown by experi-
ments made in a quonset-type
structure, in which air was fan-
pulled through spaced vents in
the outer wall and discharged
through a screen-tunnel that ran
full-length down the centre of
the storage, at ground-level.
Samples of wheat removed at
points about the same distance
between the outer wall and
tunnel, and within a few feet of
one another, had dried to the
same extent after 289 and 339
hours of fan-operation. The
289-hour wheat was in the path
of direct flow of air from intake-
vent to tunnel; the 339-hour
wheat lay in an area between
two such direct paths.
Antibiotics
“Geep”: Particularly since the
discovery of penicillin, the anti-
biotic-industry has made giant
strides. By far the greatest use
of antibiotics so far has been in
the field of medicine, but their
possible application to agri-
culture is now receiving a lot of
attention.
Streptomycin, for example,
has been found effective used in
sprays against some bacteria-
caused plant-diseases. But as
most plant-diseases of com-
mercial importance are caused
by fungi, attempts are now being
made to develop antibiotics
which are specifically active
against this form of pest.
Griseofulvin, a product of a
species of penicillium, has been
found to affect the growth of
many fungi to such an extent
that the host-plant suffers no ill-
effects, even though the fungus
is not actually killed. Actidione,
produced by certain strains of
streptomyces, is active against
smut-diseases, but unfortunately
is toxic to the plant itself at con-
centrations only a little in excess
of that required to control the
smut.
But with continued research,
and improvement in production-
methods leading to lower costs,
antibiotics may soon play a big
part in agriculture.
Farm Hints
“Feeder”: Feed some hay to
the cows after each milking
before they return to the pad-
docks. It’ll take the edge off
their hunger, and they graze the
pasture more slowly when they
go back. The same hay put out
in the paddock would probably
be ignored.
“Nutri”: Nutritionists report
that an unidentifiable “some-
thing” in lucerne has made sows
ovulate more than sows on a
non-lucerne diet: increase is an
average of 1-1| egg, which
results in extra live pig per litter,
with no loss of weight.
“C.A.A.”: C.5.1.R.0. tests in
Westralia have brought to light
an improved method of con-
trolling lucerne-flea and red-
legged earthmite. The new mix-
ture —4 fl. oz. of 25 per cent.
D.D.T.-emulsion and 1 fl. oz. of
malathion 50 per cent, miscible-
oil—is safer and less expensive
than other insecticides. It should
be sprayed three to six weeks
after the opening rains.
“Big Billy”: For roundworms
in pigs, add either fcodium-
fluoride or piperazine with the
feed. The first may be added at
lib. per 100 of dry-feed, and pigs
must be fasted for at least 24
hours beforehand. A further
dose should not be given for four
weeks. Piperazine, a new
product, has the advantage that
it can be fed with wet-feed, and
no fasting is required, but it’s
more expensive. Treat the sow
before she farrows, put her in a
clean sty, and shift the litter to
a clean paddock after 10 days.
Treat young pigs at weaning,
and again four weeks later, and
rotate paddocks.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(15/7/’56)
Queensland should receive moderate follow-on rains
during August, although mainly dry in the Peninsula and
the north-west area, where there may be little relief until
November.
In N.S.W. the coast should have only light to moderate
patchy rains during August, but general rains are likely
elsewhere, with the heaviest falls on the south-west slopes
and in the southern Riverina.
Victoria should experience fairly heavy general rains
in August, and this may lead to further flooding, particularly
in the northern division.
General rains above normal should occur in South
Australia during August, with good rains above average
in Central Australia, but the Territory mainly dry.
The south-west agricultural areas of Western Aus-
tralia should receive general rains above average, with
particularly heavy falls between Perth and Albany. Light
to moderate rain should occur in the Gascoyne and gold-
fields areas, although some isolated heavy falls may occur
in these divisions.
LENNOX WALKER.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
BTRUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND. Managing Director. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches ill all States Agencies in all Country Centres
shipping-agent, and with three
other businessmen had formed a
syndicate to supply food and
equipment to the Chinese during
the war between China and
Japan, 1894-95.
Payment was made in gold
and jewels looted from Chinese
temples, but the trio, not wishing
to entrust their takings to the
banks, buried it instead.
Donald Nicholson quarrelled
with his father, to whom the
exact location had been made
known, and his father died
without the whereabouts of the
treasure being divulged.
During the war - years
Nicholson, succeeded in interest-
ing the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in his search. Army
engineers were directed to the
site and prepared plans to blast
away part of the hill. On the
day fixed for the operation a
vault was got ready at the Com-
monwealth Bank, Melbourne.
An armed guard stood by in
readiness. And only minutes
before the scheduled time for
blasting word came through
cancelling the operation. No
explanation was made public.
Nicholson stuck to his story,
and gave, in all, 15 years to seek-
ing the treasure. It remained
elusive.
But elusiveness is a special
characteristic of lost treasure.
Over the past couple of hundred
years some 450 expeditions have
sought the fabled Cocos Island
booty, and it still evades
recovery.
At Dusseldorf, whither the
Schumanns had gone, ill-
advisedly, for Robert to take up
a position as conductor, there
came to them a blond 20-year-
old North German with a letter
of introduction. He played for
Robert and Clara a piano-
sonata he had written, and a
few minor pieces. The
Schumanns were enthralled, and
it prompted Robert to write an
article for his old paper. He
titled it “New Paths,” and in
it he made the prediction that
in Johann Brahms the world had
found another great genius—the
most prescient snap-judgment
ever made in music, for Brahms
was quite unknown and had
written only a handful of pieces,
The article created tremen-
dous interest, and brought from
the disciples of the Wagner-
Liszt school of “new” music
a ferocious response, for
Schumann had trenchantly
attacked the pair for what he
deemed their extravagant style
and vulgarity. He himself in his
later period had turned back to
the classical forms, and they
sensed a future and perhaps
powerful enemy in Schumann’s
protege—a fear that future
events were to justify.
Schumann referred to Brahms
as his “young eagle,” and said:
“I should deariy lov4 to be at his
side in his flight over the world.”
He was denied that wish, for
Brahms’s own triumphs were to
be delayed until his middle
J
y * t"\ u r t
The Dusseldorf venture was
disastrous. Schumann had got
to the stage where he would
pause, Ins baton raised m front
of the orchestra, lost in thought
for minutes .t a time. This
dieamy contemplation, an in-
tense concentration on his
inward mental life, had been
his characteristic since boy-
hood. Once as a young man
he_had gone boating with a girl
After sitting for an hour in
silence lost in his own thoughts
he sudoenly came to life, pressed
her hand and said: Now we
understand each other per-
fectl y-
One Herr Witting, commis-
sioned to find out the tempi of
one of his works by his pub-
lishers, was received by
Schumann amiably. The com-
poser asked him if he smoked,
and, on being told he did, the
composer helped himself to a
cigar and lapsed into his
customary silence. Suddenly he
roused himself, asked again,
“Do you smoke?” and again
resumed his smoke-dreams. He
didn’t even notice his puzzled
visitor depart,
Two months after Brahms
first came to them there was a
carnival in Dusseldorf. It was
raining, and midwinter, but the
streets were filled with merry-
makers. During the festivities
Schumann, wearing an old
dressing-gown and slippers, went
out of his house, ran to a bridge
and cast himself into the icy
Rhine. He was dragged out by
two passing boatmen, and a few
days later was taken to the
asylum.
Clara, who had borne her
husband eight children, out-
lived him by more than 40
years. She rounded-off her own
career as the greatest woman
pianist of the 19th century with
a tour of England. In one of
her London appearances we get
a further glimpse of her
character,
If was fhc custom then at
tZLlft otJn
J ou . ses ? f the .^ eat to ke f f pro '
ThTv P ZI Z
8 the arts—a
f J
er J 1? S 1 ® u a .y S «
Mozart, en e
Court-composers were treated as
lackeys and lived and ate in the
serva nts’ hall.
The usual red silken rope was
stretched across the music-
room? separating the sheep
f rom the goats. Clara announced
quietly g ut firmly that she
wovdd begin only after the rope
was rem oved. It was removed
__ and after that night that
symbQ l of snobbery disappeared
ever
Brahms m in love with
Robert’s widow, although she
was 14 years his senior . s As she
had done with Robert 16 years
before, so she now inspired the
young Hamburger to write great
songs. But she saw clearly that
friendship was the only possible
thing for them; and they
remained friends until her death
at 77, a year before his.
Zoom-Anshan
By JOHN K. EWERS
DOROTHY sat by the
window where she
could watch the jets as
they went by, screaming
low over the heads of the crowd,
Tony was piloting one of the
jets. To the people packed in
the roped-off enclosure the air-
pageant was a miracle of
modem flying. To Tony his
share in the display was a
matter of routine skilled,
precision - timed but still
routine.
To Dorothy it was not quite
that. No, she could never feel
that jet-flying was routine for
anyone. She had not wanted
Tony to transfer to jets, but m
personal wants P
On the carpet in the tmy
lounge-room there was an air-
pageant m miniature. Donald
Meteors, De Havillands, Hali-
faxes, helicopters and seaplanes
—they were all there, modelled
out of balsa-wood by his father.
But the jets were his fancy just
now. As each real jet dived
over the airfield, Donald made
his own toy describe a quick
arc and his voice reproduced the
sound with extraordinary faith-
fulness.
“Zoom-arrsh!”
Dorothy did not know which
was worse—the sickening noise
that rattled at the window-pane,
or the boisterous delight of her
six-year-old son.
The jets were coming in now,
two rows of them, five abreast,
wing-tips almost touching. The
heads of the crowd followed
their flight, turning when they
turned, involuntarily ducking as
they skimmed low, and lifting
again as they began to climb,
Dorothy looked down at her
kni tting. The little garment
was near i y finished and in a fort-
night Tony would have, perhaps,
another air-minded son.
she shudderetL She did not
want *° him “ other son '
But not .air-minded like
j3 ona [ d quiet boy; bookish,
h Or a girl y J he could
§ v whose ha^r she could
"ith
, , e ...
, Zoom-arrsh. See, Mummy,
tbat s bow Uaddy goes.
“Yes, dear,” said Dorothy.
But she was hardly aware of
having answered him. She was
thinking of the seven years she
had lived in Air Force barracks,
small rooms, neat, air-condi-
tioned, all-electric . . .
Her friends always said, “How
lucky you are, Dorothy! No
housing-problems. And the
last word in mod. cons.! ”
They were comfortable
enough and there was plenty of
bright companionship with the
wives of other flying-men. A
little brittle, perhaps, this life
with its bridge, dances, cock-
tail-parties and regular picture-
shows. But there was variety,
too, since they never stayed
long in one place. Tony had
served in every State except Tas-
mania, and Dorothy had gone
happily with him.
CjHE knew she could never
have been so happy with
anyone else. But sometimes
she felt a longing for a home of
their own, and always she was
nervous about flying. If Tony
“Are y ’ all right, mate?”
had not been a jet-pilot she
would, perhaps, have minded a
little less Donald’s preoccupa-
tion with toy aeroplanes and his
delighted cry of “Zoom-arrsh!
Zoom-arrsh! ”
Dorothy looked up from her
knitting to the window. The
jets were coming in singly now.
The first came in, turned on its
side almost upside-down, and
skimmed across the airfield only
two-hundred feet above the
ground.
Donald ran to the window.
‘That wasn’t Daddy!” he
cried.
Then the second came in.
Donald flattened his nose
against the glass.
“That wasn’t Daddy!” he
shouted again.
Dorothy had no idea which
was Tony’s plane. They all
looked alike to her. She knew
that at the end of its low-level
run each jet did a roll-over,
followed by an almost vertical
climb. Tony didn’t like this
low-level stunting. A bit risky,
he said it was. But nothing to
worry about, really.
She heard the first scream as
it began its steep ascent. Then
the second. A third plane went
past, a fourth. She saw the
heads of the crowd follow each
one, then pivot round to greet
the next as it came in.
The actual roll-over took
place well out of the range of
the window. Only the high
whine of the upsurging jet told
of its success. But a fraction
of time after the seventh plane
flashed out of sight, there was a
resounding crash and a loud
explosion.
Dorothy heard it and froze.
The crowd seemed to become
momentarily rigid. Donald
pressed harder against the pane,
then drew back.
“That wasn’t Daddy!” he
cried.
The words shattered the
numbness that gripped Dorothy.
She was aware of a cloud of
black smoke drifting into the
screen of the window. She saw
the eighth plane veer sharply,
gather a little height, roll-over
and climb. The others followed
suit. And all the while Dorothy
sat there trembling.
Donald had rushed back to
his squadron of jets. He picked
one up in each hand.
“That wasn’t Daddy!” he
shouted. “Daddy would go
like this. Zoom-arrsh!”
Dorothy turned quickly away,
npHE crowd was moving now;
drawn, it seemed, by some
irresistible magnet towards the
smoke that was thickening as
she watched. Whistles sounded,
The crowd halted, but bodies
pressed on bodies, urgent to see.
Dorothy’s mind could not
frame the picture of what they
might see. She shut her eyes,
Her clenched hand was pressed
to her mouth and her teeth bit
into the skin.
“Zoom-arrsh!” cried Donald.
The drone of the jets was far-
distant now. When Dorothy
looked again the smoke was
blowing over the whole air-
field. The crowd seemed static,
save for a few stragglers at the
rear. They were turning and
beginning to drift back the other
way. Her heart was cold within
her. The sentient part of her
seemed to be outside her body,
searching the sky for the nine
remaining planes, yet not know-
ing what to look for.
“That wasn’t Daddy! ”
Donald had cried.
Yet she could not be sure.
She wanted to get up, to rush to
the door, to run outside to some-
one who would know. She
could not move.
Then feet came up the stairs
and paused at the little landing
at the top. Dorothy turned to
stone in that moment, but the
feet went on down the corridor.
She dared to look out of the
window again.
The people were hardly on
the move now. Blue-uniformed
men were pressing them back.
Some tried to resist the move-
ment, reluctant to be parted
from the horror that lay some-
where out of her vision. On the
clear runway beyond the crowd
she saw the streak of an
ambulance flash by.
Donald came to the window.
“Is the air-pageant over,
Mummy?” he asked.
“When eai will Daddy be
coming?”
“Soon, dear.”
The words seem to come from
somewhere outside her.
The first of the returning
planes swept down, flattened to
a smooth landing and taxied
away behind the smoke. Then
the second, and the third.
“Which one was Daddy?”
“I don’t know, dear.”
She rose and went to the
kitchen. She had just put the
kettle on the stove when she
heard the footsteps again. More
urgent this time, they clattered
to the landing. She stood wait-
ing for the knock on the door.
But the footsteps went on, still
urgently, down the corridor.
She heard a knock at one of the
other flats.
She tried to figure whose it
was. For a moment she felt
an urge to rush outside and see
at whose door they were knock-
ing. Instead, she took down a
tin of scones and began
mechanically to butter them and
arrange them on a plate. From
another tin she took a fruit-
cake and cut it into slices.
Donald came in and she gave
him a piece.
YX7HEN the tea was made she
covered the pot with the
tea-cosy. Tony liked his tea
immediately he came in. He
liked it hot.
She sat again by the window.
The crowd was thinning now.
The smoke had drifted to the
other side of the airfield and
lay in a grey pall against the
distant trees.
The footsteps sounded again.
Running footsteps up the stairs.
This time they stopped outside
the door. Dorothy crouched
in her chair, waiting. But no
knock came. The door burst
open and Tony came rushing
in. Dorothy tried to stand but
before she could move he was
on his knees beside her. His
arms were around her and her
head was against the harsh blue
serge of his tunic. She was
crying softly.
“Tups! Are you all right?”
he said.
He could feel her body shak-
ing with sobs.
At that moment Donald joined
them.
“You were good, Daddy,” he
shouted. “This is how you went:
Zoom - arrsh! Zoom - arrsh!
Zoom-arrsh!”


NEW NOVELS
ANGLO-SAXON ATTITUDES
by Angus Wilson. “In its pettiness and
its occasional gleams of grandeur the
English middle class in our time has
rarely been more convincingly portrayed.”
(The Observer, London.) “....a very
brilliant handling of period and atmo-
sphere.” (Sunday Times, London.) Book
Society Choice. 18/9 (post lid.)
. COMMANDER BRADY
by J. E. Macdonnell. Jim Brady joined
tlic Royal Australian Navy as a raw re-
cruit. and the story of Ills lower deck life
was told in Jim lirady, leading Seaman.
In this new book we meet him as a Lieu-
tenant Commander, commanding Circe,
a wartime destroyer. 17/- (post bd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY. 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
NOW AVAILABLE AGAIN FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
H.M.s. ULYSSES
A NOVEL BY ALISTAIR MACLEAN
The Great Epic of the Sea
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
WATERFALL
by Dorothy Lucie Sanders
Another delightful family novel about the Montgomeries
of Pepper Tree Bay.
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
Retail Price, 15/6d.
Hodder and Stoughton Ltd.
setting of the fifth Test, where the
nipper and the last man, after the way
of fictional schoolboy heroes, make a
highly improbable stand of 131, to give
England the Ashes.
Historical Pelicans
The “social” approach to history, as
pioneered by Trevelyan and his school,
has much more charm for one
enthusiastic lay-historian than the dates
of kings and battles of his schooldays,
the political history of his adolescence
and the deadly dull Marxian
materialistic interpretation of a little
later. Two recent Pelicans, The
Waning of the Middle Ages, by J.
Hiuzeinga, and Cicero and the Roman
Republic, by F. R. Cowell, are excel-
lent examples.
The former author wrote his work
as a result of a desire to know what
made the artist-brothers Van Eyck and
their contemporaries tick. This
launched him into a scholarly examina-
tion which included not only the kings,
the politics and the material forces but
also the arts, religion and philosophy
—in fact, the whole social structure of
the period in which they worked.
Cowell uses the attractive device of
comparing Roman society with our
own, with all due respect to the differ-
ences in outlook, with glances at the
farmer, the industrialist, the business-
man and trade-communications.
The social hierarchy is lucidly
explained and the magistrates (those
bugbears of youthful examinees) fall
into their proper places. The Roman
people come alive as a nation under-
standable in terms of ourselves, and
the outstanding figures are vividly
painted as products of their preceding
period and as the moulders of the
future.
"Town and City "
David Rowbotham’s collection of
sketches and short-stories. Town and
City (Angus and Robertson), mostly
from “The Bulletin,” shows a fastidious
taste in words at the service of a talent
somewhat wary of emotions and of
people.
His warmest feelings are for history,
in his three studies of “The Fiver’s
Inn,” the ancient Queensland pub, and
Parson Glennie who preached there,
and the Leslies, Russells, Coxes, etc.,
who rode in to the service.
His swift, watercolor hand with
countryside:—
The rider spat inaccurately into
the bushes, and the sun came out.
It fingered in after-rain fashion the
oak and the apple-tree and lit the
sassafras and palm. The rock-lily
among the parasite-fern woke into
flame and the rider marvelled . . .
caused a murmur or so of appreciation
when it began his contributions to this
paper in “Service at the Inn”; and it
seemed only a little while later that
the paper’s morning-tea was sweetened
by inquiries about the author of “A
Lady by Choice,*” a 1000-word analysis
of a demi-mondaine in a beach-suburb,
her living-room, kitchen, wardrobe,
tastes in literature (the novels of Mr.
Thwaites) and music (“La Golondrina”)
and relations with her gentlemen-
friends.
“She is sentimental,” says Mr.
Rowbotham —it is not a vice he culti-
vates himself in this sketch, or in
“Chiming Doorbell,” a fuller study,
with dialogue, of a mother and three
daughters in an industrial suburb, an
admirable essay in that style in which
the author must chronicle in a perfectly
even voice, without a smile or an
inflection of surprise or wonder, the
distasteful, the ordinary and the
atrocious.
When he employs this tone in the
wider field of the short-story he loses
a good deal of its effect of reality to
what is obviously, and necessarily,
invention. The brilliant and cold-
blooded murder of a reluctant suicide
in “Reginald Sampson,” the
breaking by his congregation of “The
Minister” betrayed by his wife, have
not the same force as the far less
violent or rounded “Chiming Door-
bell” . , . It is when he is a little vague,
as in “A Schoolie and a Ghost,” where
a murder is merely suggested in the
atmosphere of a deserted mining-town,
or when his realism is not twisted into
a plot, as in “And Away We Go,” the
record of a night of drink, taxis and
girls, that he is most convincing.
Reviewed Briefly
The City Boy: Herman Wouk
(Cape). Introduces a stout little boy
named Herbie Bookbinder who sees
life from a tenement-home in the
Bronx, New York, and from a
summer-camp in the hills. He is 11,
Jewish, troubled with brains and
imagination, rather short on courage
and athletic ability; a thoroughly
engaging small boy who comes as a
complete and refreshing change from
dead-end kids in blackboard jungles.
Written before “The Caine Mutiny,”
this simple and amusing story has now
been published for the first time in
England.
* * * *
The Judge and the Hatter: Simenon
(Hamish Hamilton). These are two
rather-good Simenon stories. “The
Witnesses” is the story of a judge with
an invalid wife; he goes out at night
to get her medicine, and there follow
a series of embarrassing meetings. At
the same time, he is presiding at the
trial of a man charged with murdering
another and putting him on a railway-
line—the parallels between the circum-
stantial evidence surrounding the
accused, and the possible interpreta-
tion of the judge’s night-adventures if
his wife were to die, give the judge a
heavier head than does the influenza
with which he is enveloped throughout
the trial. But the second story, “The
Hatter’s Ghosts,” is even better, a
masterpiece in which the reader
observes a respectable murderer,
engaged in doing-away with a special
list of women, unsuspected though the
whole town is seeking him. The
peculiar soilure of Simenon’s writing
is admirably adapted to the crazy
, • aMOC rsf this methodical
personGt is an excellent detective-story-
person, u is
m-reverse.
¥ * * *
, . X%T „ A/r - r rrm i n
Climb the Wall: r • , “Mr
(Museum Press). Mr. Cro •
Pilgrim” carries on, in the dearm o
good English heroes, helping a girl
over a garden-wall, and then discover-
ing her running away from the house
where she has fired three revolver-shots
at someone she didn’t like. There is a
certain amount of half-convincing
adventure in halfway-houses with halt-
dressed girls, and old, threatening gents.
in luxurious cars, from which it emerges
that a gang headed by some air
other is trying to get the girl s■ mother
indicted for murder and to 1
with the booty from a £kony antique-
business. Many men and one woman
die to make this book pos 1 ,
remains improbable.
* * * *
_ _
Depends What You Mean By Love:
Nicholas Monsarrat (Cassell). Three
novelettes: “Heavy Rescue,” a story of
air-raid rescuers, their enlistment,
training, work and death during the
World War II air-raids; “Leave Can-
celled,” a careful account of an officer’s
honeymoon-afternoon and -night with
his teenage wife when he had to go
back in the morning; and “H.M.S.
Marlborough Will Enter Harbor,” the
story of the struggle of a torpedoed
sloop into harbor in Ireland half-full
0 f water “Heavy Rescue has a first-
rate account 0 f a company-concert and
a vicious picture of a disapproving
wife; “Leave Cancelled” is a nostalgic
id y lJ of a ni g ht -° f - love preceded by a
rounc j Q f war-time London; and, of
courses t h e sloop-story is a brilliantly -
aut j ien^c description,
c a i en( j ai . of Tiahuanaco: H. S.
g e p am y an d p. Allan (Faber). Mr.
j} edam y w jll be remembered, with
a g ec . doilj for a book in which,
n q uencec j by the satellite-theory of
Hoerbiger . he SU g ges ted that the earth
had on ce bad a different moon from
on£ w£ know; whichs drawn
increasingly into the earth’s gravita-
fmally fdl upon us and
Flood Qur present moon!
f, e promised, would sooner or later do
t be same thing. Here, re-examining
with his collaborator the celebrated
Tiahuanaco gateway now 12,500 ft.
b jg b - n tbe Andes; prehistorically at
sea -level—he finds the intricate carv-
j n g S 0 n the gate to be a “calendar,”
recording, for the time of one solar
year, “the motions in the heavens of
a cosmic body which existed then, but
which exists no more.” The theory
is interesting; but the detailed analysis
of the “calendar,” which occupies most
of the very long book, is only for the
specialist.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 392
Across
I—lt helps you to furnish early
November accommodation in
Melbourne. (8)
s—Resort to the sheathing bract if
he was impolite at first. (6)
10— Pranking on the hunt for birds.
(7)
11 — Boston poet mentions one of the
“Little Foxes” whose 23-down
was disappointed that the 1-across
was 12-across. (7)
12— Filleted fish are B —l. (8)
14— Will tribe’s color. (6)
15— Negative alternative. (3)
16 — Tivoli bill changes of course. (5)
18—Mosque officials give him hams
carelessly. (5)
20— Roy Rene led back the
mannequin. (5)
21— Broken jar in a great b'at. (5)
22 Down 40 winks. (3)
24—Faster to change rake with
machine-gun fire. (6)
26—Ate off the sardine fuel for cook-
ing like this seaweedy sea. (8)
28 — Former editor goes to poetical
India with a tabulated reference
list appended. (7)
29 — Yours Truly blanched when
transfixed. (7)
31—Gaudy slash about the king-
emperor. (6)
32—First World War general holds
50 or 500 by New Guinea. (4, 4)
Down
1— See a Moslem ban a brutish
fellow. (7)
2 North-east Communist role is first
associated with another to make
a pair. (9)
3 Japanese sash. (3)
4 He keeps an official record about
a private American faculty up
before the guttural. (9)
6 Proclaiming a hotel takes 51 and
101 to warble. (11)
7 A complimentary drink to a saint.
(5)
8— Eternal. (7)
9 Bashful Aunt Sally. (3)
13 —Sex title Flo revised as the title of
a Heilman play. (6, 5)
17 —Tiny country ring around San-
mar. (3, 6)
19— Shy relative’s henchman. (4, 5)
20 — Concealing mother’s ruler. (7)
23—Go droop the wrong way for
Tray, for instance. (4, 3)
25—Racehorse can’t win without this
additional clause. (5)
27—Nothing divine and not even rum.
(3)
30—500’s piano case for seeds. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 391


> ssJg»' \ ■■■■■' % V '
' * V * ** '
L-- s -
m
*K -*»Sk
<*r
r **
i«
<.. iiJ
■ ■■ ■■:■:■ •••:
?. ,#■
R
v.-.,-
S r*"\
< : -- t;;\, .••■>■ :•:* •*■; : <- $f
3TW
iisi
■
».*
l % *■
' %
I###
111
£v2
Hnfti
Your Wome 9 uour Car 9 anti
Ks the breadwinner you work hard to provide your family with
every ounce of material welfare you can afford, doing your utmost
to keep them happy, healthy and secure —that’s as long as you live!
Is that enough? Of course it’s not, if you want for them a secure
future, because you know there is the troubling possibility that
you may not always he here to look after them . . .
Plan now for the future security of your family with an M.L.C.
Family Income Policy which will provide for a guaranteed
monthly income for your dependants. This policy offers the
greatest life assurance cover for the premium you can afford. Here
are the actual benefits provided by an M.L.C. Family Income
(Scale 3) Policy upon d,eath within the selected family income
period of up to 20 years.
(1) Full amount of policy plus bonuses.
(2) Guaranteed Monthly Income for balance of the selected
period.
the policy holder survive the period for family income
the policy continues as a general life policy.
The M.L.C. also offers variations
of these family income benefits
-—particulars will be readily
supplied without obligation on
request .
Coniact the nearesf M.L.C.
Office or Representative for
further details of this Plan.
General Manager:
A. F. DEER.
V,?.
BE WELL ADVISED BY THE M.L.C. MAN
ML49a/FP
The
»'.L.U
(incorporated in N.S.W.)
The MUTUAL LIFE and CITIZENS'
Assurance Co. Limit
