

'
A
■
V
r-
/
e
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
“A WOMAN’S WORD m -mge 20
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4011
Wednesday, December 26, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
ST. ALBANS ANCIENT
CLOCK TOWER,
A RARE MEDIEVAL SURVIVAL
"DEW English towns can rival the
-*■ historical associations of St. Albans,
which, with its Saxon, Roman and British
predecessors, can claim a history going
back 2000 years to the dawn of
Christianity in Britain. It is the successor
of the first City of Verulamium, which
gained the distinction of being the only
city in Britain to have conferred on it,
by Rome, the dignity of a Municipium,
by which it became the centre of Roman
civilisation in Britain with special rights
of jurisdiction.
Among the Roman legionaries stationed
at Verulamium was Albanus, who
adopted the Christian faith and during
the persecutions which followed the Edict
of Diocletian in a.d. 303, he sheltered a
Christian priest. He was denounced and
brought before the Governor, who
sentenced him to death after his asser-
tion that “I, who was a soldier of Ccesar,
am now a soldier of Christ.” After the
most atrocious tortures which failed to
move him, he was taken out to die on the
scaffold. It was with the greatest diffi-
culty that an executioner could be found ;
finally a condemned criminal at last
consented upon a promise of a pardon
and much gold to undertake the task.
Immediately after dealing the fatal blow
the executioner was struck blind and the
Governor died miserably after a long and
agonising disease from which he could
not be cured.
The body of St. Alban, the first
Christian martyr in Britain, was buried
where he fell and later a shrine was
erected over his grave to which pilgrims
thronged from all over Britain. "The
shrine was followed by a Saxon
monastery and later by a Norman Abbey,
and around this ecclesiastical centre
grew the medieval town of St. Albans.
Still standing in the busy centre of
the town is the Clock Tower, built
between 1403 and 1412. It is constructed
of flint and rubble with stone dressings,
and is one of the few remaining medieval
bellries in England. It contains a
14th-century bell which was sounded at
four-o’clock each morning to call
apprentices to work, and at eight-o’clock
each evening it sounded the curfew.
No. 329: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BO'OKHUjNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—-fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
ceaaful.
Th e Red Page
NEWS FROM JAPAN
As he flies into Japan in Chapte
One of his new travel-book Th
Country Upstairs (Angus and Robert
son), Colin Simpson is attacked b
thoughts that must have worried man;
a travel-writer:—
The doubt that turned over in my
head... .was that, this time, the
the gamble an author makes when
he stakes a year of his life on
producing a book to attract an
economic number of readers would
not pay off. ...“You could well be
on your way to becoming one of
the best-travelled bankrupts in the
Southern Hemisphere.”
So, from the word “go,” the reade
finds himself hoping that Japan won
let Mr. Simpson down. High price
make long stays rather difficult
Japan, and every time Mr. Simpson
spends 6s. or Bs. Australian on
whisky the reader’s anxiety i
redoubled: “O Heaven, let it blow it
top,” one says, as Mr. Simpson survey
Fujiyama, “and make him Johnny
on-the-spot!”
Indeed, it is this ability to take the
reader along with him that makes the
good travel-writer, and Mr. Simpsoi
has rarely done better than his geisha
party, where he says exactly what they
had to eat, what songs they sang anc
what games they played. He even
manages to communicate enough o:
the exquisite gaiety of these trainee
entertainers to explain how beautifu
young girls can amuse men for an
evening without—well, without. At
cost of about £BO for the party —
geisha-parties are not, he says, for
the poor.
There is the same immediacy in his
picture of the hotel-maid who led him
down the street to his bath a
Miyajima; or the young lady in white
shorts and Bikini-top who bathed him
in Tokio; or the hospital-interne Who
acted as his guide in his off-hours, thus
helping to pay himself through another
medical course, and then went back
to prescribe in matters of life and death
at the hospital.
He livens-up the horrors of Hiro-
shima by having survivors and doctors
and authorities talk about it; and, in
the Philippines, makes something ol
the suppression of the Communist
Huks by having President Magsaysay
tell him over the breakfast-table of the
stratagems by which some leaders were
brought over and a group of Huks
leaders were lured into a clearing
where they could be machine-gunned.
He even tries to turn the history of
Japan into a conversation-piece for
himself and a learned Englishman he
calls Longman, but that is a little too
much for the method to take. For
himself, however, he forms the opinion
that the English-teachers who teach
Japanese students the poems of T. S.
Eliot and the prose of Joyce’s
“Finnegans Wake” might have been
better employed teaching them enough
ordinary everyday English to carry on
a conversation with a visiting travel-
writer. The idea of a Japanese student
trying to cope with Eliot is certainly
titivating, but so is the effort of the
travelling English-speaker to prescribe
respect for the Japanese point-of-view.
How many Australian university
students who read French can speak
it? And one who is hurt that the
Japanese cannot carry on a conversa-
tion with him in English should not be
seen writing:—
I resolved to devote an hour a
day to learning Japanese from a
book I had called Japanese in a
Hurry. (I never did, of course.)
If one is a little sharp with Mr.
Simpson here it may be because, among
some acid remarks upon tail-stories
told at the Japanese expense, he is
particularly severe upon the one about
the Japs copying the broken handles
of the tea-cups sent as samples for
an English order. It was one’s only
story about Japan—one brought it out
fondly at any party where Japan was
mentioned. Evidently it was everyone
else’s story, too —which explains the
cloud upon the face of a Sydney
advertising-executive when one told it
to him a while ago. He’d been going to
tell it himself.
Still, if Mr. Simpson has taken from
most of us this valued possession, he
has given us much in exchange: that
lovely artificiality of diverted water
that provides the setting for the
Imperial" Villa at Kyoto, for instance;
or the gold-leafed Kinkakuji pavilion
that was burned down by a mad priest
in 1950 and so wonderfully restored; or
luncheon with Tsudayo-san, the tayu
of the Bunraku theatre at Osaka; or
the naughty strip-tease girl who came
down on the apron-stage at the side-
street theatre and borrowed a cigarette;
or the kicking in the tough single-
combat called “karate” at Tokyo
University, which even the judo experts
sheered off; or jai-alai, played by
specially imported Basques in the
Philippines, a kind of wall-tennis, or
fives, in which the players wear the
long, curved bat on their hands like a
glove; or the trouble Mr. Simpson had
taking a flash-photograph of down-
town Osaka . . .
Then there is how it feels to be
entertained by a middle-class Japanese
family; or to pick up a handful of
pearls at Atami and let them dribble
through your fingers as an Englishman
explains that these are only some of
the annual ten tons of culture-pearls,
of which his firm buys about four
tons; or exactly what happened in
Japan on the day the Emperor decided
to surrender and the Army Minister
shot himself and seven young leaders
killed themselves in front of the palace;
or how at a tea-party one should not
tilt the bowl of tea passed round for
admiration because the party-giver has
composed a picture inside it, of the
tea-leaves . . .
Mr. Simpson, who before he went on
his travels was one of the best press-
layout men in the business, has
endowed his book with a magnificent
set of pictures, some from Japanese
sources, others that he took himself,
and almost half of them in color.
LANDSCAPE
An old land effects no release
From its past by a contemporary shade ;
But, vast and reluctant to cease,
Just shrugs and stays through the forms
it has made.
The rock is adamant yet yields
Its enterprise, yields its dynamic strain
As a new man tilling the fields.
A whirlwind that moves on a silent plain.
The flooding light takes all, persists
Drains back to model our ovm relief,
Contours of waiting where strength
consists
In slow statement of ultimate belief.
VICTORIA.
NOEL MACAINSH.
Faintly Fishy
Beautiful though its title is, Maurice
Constantin-Weyer’s The Private Life
of Fishes (Richard Bell), translated
from the French by Ray Turrell, might
more suitably have been called “The
Fish That Got Away,” for it is a
strangely slight, vague, muddled and
inconclusive little book in which the
author skips lightly from one subject
to another, sometimes scientific, some-
times descriptive, sometimes remem-
bering the days when he fished in
Canada, without ever seeming to know
quite what he wants to write about.
Still, it cannot help being faintly
fishy; therefore faintly attractive to all
to whom this important subject is as
dear as it should be.
For instance, even though he seems
to contradict himself by his own
recommendation of a Red Tag for
wet-fly fishing, and if all one’s own
experience seems also to contradict him
(what about the day at Duckmaloi
when they were rising to the black
ant, yet would not touch any black
fly unless it had a tip of red at the
tail?), it is still interesting to hear M.
Constantin-Weyer assert that trout
have no interest in color: and he brings
some powerful evidence to support
him, notably that of Sir Herbert
Maxwell, who dyed his yellow mayflies
blue or red and found they were just
as acceptable.
M. Constantin-Weyer does, too, deal
a little with the private life of fishes,
and offers the appalling information
that the male lamprey (at least making
some amends for the dreadful things
that female spiders do to their
husbands) bites his spouse to death
while mating. And also—a very
curious example of the marital relation-
ship—-there is the story of the parasitic
Ceratias, a dweller in the depths of
the ocean: —
The male of Ceratias, which is
very much smaller than the female,
dings to her with his tongue and
ends up by becoming permanently
attached to her.... [He] is ten or
twelve times smaller than the female,
and he ends by being so home-
bound that the circulation of his
blood and his digestive system
depends entirely on the female. She
breathes for him ; she eats for him.
All this nourishment serves a single
purpose: it strengthens and develops
an enormous....
Really, the wonders of Nature will
never cease!
Idriess When Young
Mr. lon Idriess has to step warily
these days, in his peregrinations about
Australia, to avoid the places where he
has been before and, in a book like
The Silver City (Angus and Robert-
son), where others, like Mr. George
Farwell, have been before.
Still, it is always allowable for a
famous author to revisit the scenes of
his youth, and to remember how he
drove as a child in his father’s sulky
from Lismore to Tweed Heads, and
later on long trips out and around in
the Broken Hill district; how Tam-
worth has changed since he went to
school there; how the family had to
travel 1700 miles from Tam worth to
get to Broken Hill in 1900—Tam worth,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Cock-
burn, Broken Hill:—
Dad’s job, throughout life,
involved considerable travelling.
All Mr. Idriess omits from such
excursions is Dad’s business. When he
finally gets down to Broken Hill
history he leaves no astonishment
unturned on that well-worn track: how
a share in Broken Hill was lost at
cards; how this foolish person sold a
share worth so many millions for a
few hundreds ... He is much fresher
in his memories of being a boy at the
School of Mines there and a worker
in the Assay Office of the Big Mine,
and of his second job, as a seaman on
the paddlewheel steamer from Sydney
to Newcastle and up the Hunter to
Morpeth.
He is also good on the development
of Iron Knob from a mere supply of
ironstone for the silver - smelting
furnaces at Port Pirie to the foundation
of a steel-industry with its base across
the Spencer Gulf at Whyalla; and
especially good on Tully Wollaston, a
South Australian who, working with
the Hatton Garden firm of Hasluck
Brothers, broke the European belief
that Australia’s brilliant opals were not
merely fakes; and he ends with a “Last
Secret” of the Darling —a chain of lakes
from Menindee down to Wentworth
which might be kept flooded, instead
of left to dry up, and make “Menindee
to-Wentworth one great orchard.”
HERE WE GO ROUND
Beyond the humming of the busy tractors,
The metropolitan scuttle, hustle and crush,
There lurks, deceptive dream of
malefactors,
the bush.
Impassive, and impervious to
improvement
In its breathtaking, brain-bewildering
hush,
—Faint crackling of a twig, invisible
movement —
the bush.
Indifferent, cruel, ageless and insatiate,
These are the epithets that you must push,
—Arid autonomy —but don't
depreciate
the bush.
So if you would aspire to be a ringer
Or jack your filly to a winning rush
You must just once, my good Australian
singer,
go bush.
S.A.
M. BRYN DAVIES.
Bubbling with Goodwill
“Mr; Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean,
“I’ll tell you what they do in North
Queensland. They effervesce hospi-
tality.”
“Good heavens,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“You don’t mean to say they foam at
the mouth?”
“Not when they meet Mr. A. C.
Lock,” said Mr. Shean. “They couldn’t.
Mr. Lock never misses a chance to
print a name and pay the name a
compliment. You take the Babinda
Hotel, for example. It is managed by
Mr. and Mrs. Rex Willett, two persons
with delightful personalities, who have
the welfare of the travelling public at
heart ... as, no doubts they have. I
should think they all just bubble with
delight.”
“Well,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I am
sure the world would be a better place
if we all effervesced a bit more. But
what is Mr. Lock doing up there
hissing and steaming and boiling away
amongst all these delightful people in
Queensland? Has he written a book
about the Babinda Hotel?”
“As far as 1 can make out,” saic
Mr. Shean, “Mr. Lock’s Tropica:
Tapestry, published by Georgian
House with some hideous colored
photographs that alone are worth
anybody’s money, is about the sunset.”
“I have a dim recollection,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “that the subject has
been mentioned before.”
“Still,” said Mr. Shean, “it does go
on every day. And so does the dawn.
And so does Mr. Lock. There are, if I
remember rightly, fifteen dawns and
sunsets, all gorgeously described, in the
first forty pages.”
“Read me one,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“The distant blue hills and pearl-
colored water,” said Mr. Shean, “tinted
with exquisite colors from the reflec-
tions among the clouds of the setting
sun, was a scene that held us breath-
less. The half-moon in the sky; the
reflections of the countless trees; the
slate shadows meeting the cerise and
gold, all combined and created beauty
equalled only by sunrise on the
Johnstone River at Innisfail.”
“By Jove,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I
mustn’t fail to see Innisfail.”
“It would take your breath away,”
said Mr. Shean. “But it didn’t,
fortunately, take Mr. Lock’s. He has
breath enough left for hundreds more
sunsets; and he uses it.”
“But you don’t mean to tell me,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “that Mr. Lock
went to Queensland only to describe
the sunsets?”
“I can’t make out why he went
there,” said Mr. Shean. “He did
mention at one stage that he intended
to investigate the Burdekin Falls
water-conservation scheme”
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I’ll bet
that effervesced.”
“But I can’t remember,” said Mr.
Shean, “if he ever got there. What with
getting bogged in the sunsets and the
sandhills, and being chased out of town
by the birds”
“Emus?” said Mr. Gallagher.
“All kinds of birds,” said Mr. Shean.
“Thousands of birds. I never heard so
many birds in all my life. The earliest
astir were the magpies. Their carols
could have been an angel’s chorus.
Worthy rivals were the songs of the
(i Continued on page 35)


| SERVICES FROM AUSTRALIA’S “SENIOR STORE” |
■
m
Wm
lit
••
m
m
m
mm*
mm
f«g§t
m
Liquating that Social. Solecism, a Spot on Your Tie, seems a far cry from a
jolly Birthday Party for 600 laughing children, but both stem from the same source
.., Anthony Horderns’ policy, simply and long established ... TO GIVE SERVICE.
It could be said that to organise the gargantuan Birthday Party every Saturday
for over thirty years, a Party which has become a legend with thousands of men and
women who remember listening to their first Birthday Call over a radio as new and
exciting then as Television is today, is something beyond the call of duty.
We, however, believe that the service of which this Birthday Party is but a
small part, has been the means, no less than honest merchandising, of the warmth of
feeling that exists between the people of this State aiid ourselves.
Of these famous Anthony Horderns’ Services we say only, “These are for
you. We hope you will use them.” Whatever your pressing problem ... a button
on your coat or breakfast for the Maharajah, Anthony Horderns’ are geared to take
care of it. P.S. Book now for January Birthday Parties.
£e
HERE ARE SOME OF ANTHONY HORDERNS>. FAMOUS SERVICES:
BREAKFAST: From 8.30 to
10 a.m., Mon. to Fri.
PARCEL PARK: Leave your
parcels for 6d. per day. Pitt St.
POST OFFICE: With two
trunk call boxes. Grd Fir., Pitt.
SAVINGS BANK: Operates
during shopping hours. Pitt St.
DINING ROOM: Which has
a liquor licence.
Dry Cleaning: A 48 hour
service. Ground Fir., George.
Free Ladies’ Lounge and
Toilet Rooms.
MOTHERS’ REST ROOM.
Prompt Taxi-call service.
EXTENDED CREDIT PLAN.
World Book Club. Pitt St.
Expresso Coffee Bar on
Ground Floor, Pitt St.
TROUT LICENCES: In the
Fishing Tackle Department.
Senior Licence 10/-; Junior 5/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SEND CHRISTMAS GREETINGS TO
SETreSflte
pis
ALL OF OUR CUSTOMERS


The Bulletin
Wednesday , December 26, 1956
Vol 77—No, 4011
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Plade, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington .
WHAT A YEAR!
NINETEEN-FIFTY-SIX has been a two-faced
year. It came in with a smile; it goes out with a
scowl. Last January, on the world stage, there
were smiles -on the faces of Bulganin and
Khrushchev —a phenomenon that raised optimistic
hopes in many lands. The Kremlin gentjemen were
smiling with satisfaction at the result of their
personal-appearance tours of India, Burma and
Afghanistan, in the course of which they had gone
out of their way to slander the Western Powers,
particularly the United Kingdom, although they
had already accepted an invitation to visit London
in the spring.
In England both party-leaders could manage
at least a token smile. Hugh Gaitskell had just
succeeded Attlee as leader of the British Labor
party, defeating Nye Bevan rather decisively in the
party poll. Eden, too, could smile. The year just
ended had seen him elevated at last to the Prime
Ministership after many years in waiting as Heir
Apparent to Churchill; it had also seen a general
election which had confirmed him in office for (he
hoped) five years. Actually, Eden’s smile was only
half-hearted. He had his problems; a “Bulletin”
cartoon of the period depicted him in a cactus-
infested Garden of Eden, prophetically applying
the secateurs to an exceptionally spiny plant labelled
“Middle East.” In America, with Eisenhower’s
health making his running for the Presidency
somewhat doubtful, political leaders were going
through facial contortions, with Republicans trying
to wear a smile and Democrats trying not to.
There was no doubt about where to look for
the smiles in Canberra; the faces of the Lib. and
Country-party tigers were wreathed in ’em. The
Menzies-Fadden coalition had just won its fourth
successive election and was numerically stronger
in the Reps, than at any time since 1949. For this
it owed considerable thanks to the Victorian Anti-
Communist Labor party or perhaps to Dr. Evatt,
whose devotion to the slogan “I’m right, so you
must be wrong” was the principal cause of the
formation of the A.-C.L.P. The Government’s
position in the Senate was not so smileworthy. It
had come within an ace of bringing-off the almost
impossible—a 3-2 win in 6very State—but in
Victoria the odd seat had gone to Anti-Communist
thus making the numbers of the Govern-
ment and the Opposition equal. This would
have been enough to make Evatt and Calwell, the
begetters of the Senate proportional-representation
system, smile, but for the fact that they knew that
the two A.-C.L. men could be relied on not to vote
the Government out of office as. long as the Doc.
was the alternate P.M.
Failing that consolation the Federal Opposi-
tion found little else to smile at. On the contrary,
they seemed overloaded with gloomy forebodings.
Quite early in the year they resumed their doleful
prophecies of disaster which had been the stock-in-
trade of Labor ever since the defeat of the Chifley
Government in 1949. Evatt set the ball rolling by
talking of attempts to create “a deliberately-
manufactured crisis in Australia” which it was
Labor’s duty to prevent, and Victorian Opposition-
leader Cain supported him with, “These opponents
of Labor aimed at creating another 1929-30
depression era, and it was the duty of Labor to
prevent this.” Others followed their gloomy lead.
In State politics five Governments began 1956
with the .prospect of a general election ahead of
them. For most of them the outlook was no smiling
matter, but in the upshot all managed to survive
the ordeal. The Cahill Government in N. S. Wales
almost had the grin taken off its face. It lost seven
seats and for a brief space after polling-day the
grin was suspended in mid-air, not certain whether
to return to its customary resting-place or to settle
on the untried countenance of Opposition-leader
Morton. Habit won. In Queensland, despite the
Labor faction-fight, the shearers’ strike and a land-
scandal which "cost Lands Minister Foley his
portfolio, though not his seat, the Gair Government
came up smiling and with its numbers unchanged,
secure in the knowledge that so long as it retained
control of electoral boundaries and rolls nothing
short of an atom-bomb or a complete ban on the
use of sugar could shift it. Playford (L.C.P.) was
returned in South Australia with undiminished
strength, and Hawke (Labor), in Westralia, with a
gain of three seats. Smiles were almost evenly
distributed in Tasmania, when, after a dissolution
caused by the defection of a Labor Minister, an
election gave a 15-all result. Under Tasmania’s
unique electoral law the Treasury purse-strings went
to Labor as the party which secured the highest
aggregate of votes; the Libs, supplied the Speaker
and Chairman of Committees.
Victoria, the only State to avoid a general
election in 1956, had more important things on
its hands, and the general glow of self-satisfaction
that settled on the collective face of Melbourne
the day the Olympic Games opened and became
more and more expansive with each successive (and
successful) day should last well into 1957.
‘ Elections over, gloom settled more-or-less
uniformly on the State Governments, with mounting
transport deficits, higher taxes and terrific increases
in freights and fares the general pattern, particularly
in N. S. Wales. Two Premiers’ Conferences failed
to break the deadlock over the anomalies in State
and Federal wage-fixing. In the party-political
field the split in the Labor party became wider, with
mass expulsions in N. S. Wales and the formation
of a Democratic Labor Party. By December Ward
was saying plaintively that the heart seemed to
have gone out of the Labor movement in
N. S. Wales.
Not that ’the Liberal or Country parties were
entirely happy. The N. S." Wales Libs., after two
quick changes of leadership, were still somewhat
undecided about the future, and the Federal leader-
ship was under strong rank-and-file criticism over
its immigration policy, import-restrictions, banking
and other matters. The Wentworth by-election,
contested by several Independent Liberals and won
by the endorsed candidate Bury by only a small
margin, crystallised this feeling.
Overseas events of the past few months have
been of such a nature and on such a scale as to
need no recapitulation. Ike smiled his way back
to a second term, but has had little reason to smile
since. Nor has any other national leader with his
sights fixed more than a few weeks ahead. Eden’s
political future is precarious indeed, and although
Bulganin and Khrushchev have reason to be pleased
at the Anglo-French rebuff at the hands of
America and the U.N., they have seen the whole
value of their glad-handing tours and their
denigration of Stalin brought to nothing by their
brutality in Hungary. The year ends with the
blocked Suez Canal a fitting symbol of the general
muddle in world affairs.
Hungary and Humbug
ONE of the features of the Hungarian situation is
the silence which has fallen on' the leaders of
Australian Labor, who a little while ago were so
indignantly raucous about British-French “aggres-
sion” in the Suez Canal Zone, manfully abusing the
Western allies for having given Russia a good excuse
for its actions against the Magyars.
The Russian action began to be prepared long
before there was any hint of an Israeli invasion of
Egypt. ‘ Indeed, European papers—and “The
Bulletin’* —pointed to the unusual events which
began to happen there as early as October 1, when
there was rationing on the pretext of crop-failures,
closure of important transport areas to the public,
Russian troop-movements, commandeering of
petrol, trains and road-transport. Apart from
that, the idea that Hply Russia would need to use
as an excuse actions by the capitalist West is a
strange one in the mouths of people like Mr. Ward
and Dr. Evatt, who have rarely let an opportunity
pass to do a good turn to Moscow and its Australian
sycophants and who have generally supported
Russian policy (save when casual expediency
rendered it unsafe to do so) throughout their
strange political careers.
There could, of course, be no excuse for
anything that has happened in Hungary. It has
been no mere incident. It has been a prolonged,
ruthless, deliberate suppression of an uprising
which was general to all classes, and which is marked
by a desperation which has proved that the
flungarians to an astonishing extent prefer death
to a continued subjection to the rule of foreign
Communism. It has been marked by whole-
sale murder, by extinction of all human rights,
by the imposition of the death-penalty without due
trial, by widespread confiscation and destruction,
by kidnappings, by the violation of women on the
grand scale which always seems to go with
“liberations” by the Red Army.
.In countries other than Australia and the
sodden mass of U.N. bodies manned by the delegates
of dictatorships for the most part, it would be unsafe
for any union-leader not to wholeheartedly condemn
the Hungarian atrocities. And in the Common-
wealth in particular one would expect to find Labor,
whose Federal leader modestly professes to be the
father of the four freedoms in this “capitalist
country,” to be heard leading a fiery crusade against
the Budapest horrors, invoking the aid of every
unionist to succor the oppressed and the exiles.
But since his effort at exculpation of the
murderers on the ground that they had been set a
bad example by the British, there has been scarcely
a squeak out of Dr. Evatt. And Mr. Ward has had
nothing to say, though he made some startling
admissions in Adelaide to the effect that all was far
from well with the party. Mr. Calwell has uttered
a few lukewarm platitudes.
But Albert Monk, president of the A.C.T.U.,
is now back from the International Conference of
Free Trade Unions in Brussels with first-hand
information.
There was no doubt in the minds of the dele-
gates to that conference about the position after
hearing all the multiplicity of reports and evidence
put before them. They passed resolutions adjudging
the U.S.S.R. guilty of the crime of genocide which
had been perpetrated against the Hungarian nation
through massacre and' mass deportations. They
accused the Kremlin of relying in its policies on
“sheer force,” and described its rulers in the light
of their proceedings as “morally bankrupt, politi-
cally dishonest, economically oppressive and
socially reactionary.”
All this Mr. Monk heard and recorded in his
interviews when he returned, plus the fact that when
he left the conference it was estimated that 30,000
Hungarians had been killed, another 100,000
wounded and perhaps 30,000 deported to Siberia.
He recorded, too, that “the people of Hungary are
disappointed that world attention has been directed
towards Suez rather than toward their own land,
and feel that the United Nations have let them
down.” He failed to emphasise the action which
the conference took, because obviously it would
have deeply embarrassed him in his relations with
his masters in unionism and leaders in politics at
home.
In Britain, militant unions have gone to the
length of refusing to load Russian ships. They have
welcomed refugees and found homes for them.
The A.C.T.U., after hearing Mr. Monk’s report,
passed the chief resolutions of the Brussels confer-
.ence. It has actually given trade-union bodies
permission to discuss the Hungarian position!
The Communist party of Australia, through its
official organ, has declared that the Russian action
was taken because “a real danger was imminent of
Hungary being turned into a Fascist State.” The
dishonest humbug behind this assertion exposes
itself in the light of the Russian offer to send
volunteers to aid the brutal Nasser, who models
himself openly on Hitler and who, against the plead-
ings of all the vestiges of constitutional bodies
which have survived under his rule, carries on the
government of Egypt as a one-man military dictator.
The Australian Communist party, of which men
like Healy, Elliott V. Elliott, Brown of the Rail-
ways Union and other ardent allies and co-operators
with the A.L.P. and participants in A.C.T.U.
activities are leaders and directors of policy, says:—
Soviet armed action to smash the Arrow
Fascists, the Horthyites, neo-Nazis, Whiteguards
who launched a reign of terror in Hungary on
October 23, should be therefore supported by all.
Does Australian unionism intend to continue
to co-operate with these people? Do unions which
call themselves moderate intend to continue to
associate with them in or out of the A.C.T.U. and
use their support? Do the unions intend to continue
to back men like Evatt, who has been following
virtually the Communist-party foreign policy since
he rushed to the defence of Russia during the Petrov
Commission and showed himself prepared to accept
the word of Molotov before the findings of
Australian ’judges?
If it does it will make the gorge of most decent
workers rise. Most men, Left or Right, have come
to the same inescapable conclusions as the Inter-
national Federation of Free Trade Unions of which
the A.C.T.U. enjoys membership.
President Eisenhower says that “the terror
imposed upon Hungary negates almost every article
in the Declaration of Human Rights,” and “that
these human rights have been repudiated so
flagrantly is cause for world-wide mourning the
recent outbreak of brutality in Flungary has moved
free peoples everywhere to reactions of horror and
revulsion”: —
It denies the principle that no one shall be
subjected to cruel, inhuman or degrading treat-
ment; it denies that no person shall be arbitrarily
arrested, detained or exiled; it denies that all are
equal before the law and entitled to its equal
protection; it denies the right to freedom of
thought, conscience and religion, the right to
freedom of opinion and expression, the right
to freedom of peaceful assembly, the right not
to be held in slavery or servitude and that the
will of the people shall be the basis of govern-
ment.
It denies, in fact, every right which Dr.’ Evatt
and the unions have professed to fight for in Aus-
tralia. And their mild reactions and their interest
in the situation only as something which they might
turn against the British and their own Government
marks the limits of their hypocrisy—if there are
limits.


THE RIGHT TO STRIKE —IN HUNGARY


PLAIN ENGLISH
Lessons of Wentworth
The Liberal party’s official candidate,
Leslie Bury, won Wentworth Federal seat
by a narrow majority of 1102 from his
two Liberal, one Labor and two
Independent opponents. But the
Liberal organisation had a bad fright.
With an outstanding official candidate,
young, personable, with a record of
administrative success and selected from
among a young forest of aspirants, it
nevertheless seemed at some stages that
Mr. Robson might beat him.
The campaign was hard-fought, and
part of the reaction was certainly not
against Mr. Bury but against the
bureaucrat-toleration of the Liberal
party, which has become a subject for
stinging comment in many quarters.
Sir Leslie Morshead remarked at the
annual meeting of the Bank of New
South Wales, for instance, that it was
“regrettable that a Government express-
ing belief in free enterprise should be so
reluctant to act in strengthening the
ability of the system to survive the
challenge of Socialism.” And he said it
with feeling, for the trading-bank system
lives on the edge of a political precipice.
The Liberal party is by no means
Socialistic in spirit. Its actions in regard
to C.O.R. and A.W.A. make that clear
enough. But where de-Socialisation of
something Socialised by Labor is too
much of a bother, it is prone to let things
stay as they are. This is made the more
inevitable where it relies on the advice of
departmental heads.
Mr. Robson, who fought on a demand
that the Liberal party return to its 1949
policy and see it carried out, had a very
substantial vote.
While, however, the poll should give
Liberal headquarters and Parliamentary
leaders room for thought, it should also
come as a cold shock to Labor.
Labor’s campaign in Wentworth gave it
a sovereign opportunity to test its beliefs
against a divided Liberal party. The
result showed that, with more indus-
trial population in the electorate, there
was a swing against Labor so heavy that
it must give the A.L.P. cause for alarm
and doubt as to whether, on the present
distribution —though there will be a redis-
tribution before the next general poll
if Parliament runs out its term —Labor
isn’t likely to lose heavily in marginal
seats if sent to the country now.
Dr. Evatt, with his peculiar sympathies
for the Russian viewpoint, is certainly
not a campaign-winner.
Foreign Aid
By a policy of passive resistance, the Vic-
torian Medical Board had declined to
register foreign doctors, despite the
chronic shortage, until the Bolte
Government in its autumn session passed
the Medical Registration Act. It was
promptly proclaimed, but it wasn’t until
the end of the year that any real results
appeared.
These show that the board’s policy of
ca’canny and job-control persists. The
board was given power to register those
they considered had special qualifications
in their own countries and whose services
would be useful to Victoria.
Ninety-six foreign doctors applied, and,
with considerable publicity, including
pictures of the happy recipients, the regis-
trations of the first eight were announced.
No more followed, and curious officials
and newspapers, inured over almost two
decades to the backing and filling of the
board, inquired and discovered that the
other 88 had been rejected because they
were not of international standing and
better (in the board’s opinion) than
locally trained doctors.
The great numbers of migrants, a large
proportion of whom are settling in Mel-
bourne, are entitled to doctors who can
speak their own language, and Victorians
are entitled to the benefits of their special
skills ; and it may be that Bolte, who is
concerned about the unfair advantage
taken of the wording of the Act, may
have to appoint a different board.
Acquisitive Mr. Cahill
N. S. Wales Premier Cahill has been
passing a few remarks on prices. He
says that when he was at the Premiers’
Conference a short time ago he produced
proof that basic-wage rises were “by no
means the sole cause of price-increases.”
It isn’t surprising that the “proof” he
produced didn’t cause any sensation in
Federal circles. No one with any
knowledge at all has ever contended that
basic-wage rises are the only cause of
price-increases. What is maintained is
that when inflationary tendencies are
present they are aggravated by automatic
quarterly adjustments of wages and that
each successive rise gives a further twist
to the inflationary spiral.' Cahill himself
expressed strong views on this subject
until someone twisted his arm and told
him to conform to “Labor” dogma.
In reply to Opposition-leader Morton’s
suggested panel to investigate the cause
of price-increases, Cahill says that the
man-in-the-street could inform Morton of
the cause —“it is the acquisitive urge of
people who have goods to, sell.”
Coming from Cahill this may b£ taken
as a confession. His Government doesn’t
do much in the way of selling goods, but
it does a very big business in selling
services. On Cahifl’s say-so it is there-
fore reasonable to assume that it was an
acquisitive urge that made his Govern-
ment steeply increase fares and freights
on trains, trams and buses a few months
ago.
The acquisitive urge must also be
blamed for the higher electricity bills the
people of N. S. Wales are now receiving
from Cahill’s distributing authority ; for
the higher stamp-duties they now pay
for the same (or less) services than
formerly ; the higher water-rates they pay
his Water Board; the land-tax they now
pay where none was paid before.
There is no denying that the acquisitive
instinct is very strong in most human
beings, but “Labor”-Socialist Govern-
ments should, by definition, be able to
rise above it. If they can’t then
how can they expect lesser mortals to do
so? If they can, why don’t they? If they
do, then Cahill must have some other
explanation for his own price-rises. And
if he has, then perhaps it is barely
possible that mere acquisitiveness isn’t
the full explanation of other
price-increases.
Making Us Better Known
“In the Act”: Those Australians who
complain when overseas that there seems
to be little to show for the large amounts
paid out by the Commonwealth and
States for propaganda on Australia’s
opportunities and resources have found
support from many visitors to the
Olympic Games. These people have sug-
gested that we should do much more to
“sell” Australia, and this weight of
evidence from so many quarters surely
indicates that at the least we have con-
centrated our appeals in too few centres
instead of spreading the message over
wider areas.
Two recent visitors to Canberra, a
Canadian Minister of State and an Aus-
trian journalist, both said their peoples
were profoundly ignorant of Australia,
and that they themselves had been sur-
prised and impressed at the dynamic
quality of our life and the prospects of
this country when it was more populated
and developed.
So far as Central Europe is con-
cerned, it seems likely that earlier ignor-
ance of us will be dissipated to a great
extent by the aid we are giving to
Hungarian refugees—although we mustn’t
overlook the fact that the United States
and Britain are both taking far more of
these ..distressed people than we can
manage to shelter. But the Canadian
report is another one in a long and
depressing series.
It is true that few Canadians know or
care much about Australia —and it is
equally true that few Australians know
much about Canada, beyond the
mistaken impression that it is in most
respects a sort of appendage of the
United States. The fault isn’t wholly
with Australia. The Canadian national
motto expresses the fact that the nation
stretches from ocean to ocean, but few
Canadians feel that Canada is a Pacific
Power, just as few Australians, with the
population concentrated largely on the
Pacific coast, realise that Australia is an
Indian Ocean Power.
The Canadian visitor, Mr. Paul Martin,
who is Minister of Health and who also
supports Mr. Lester Pearson on many
United Nations occasions, was at some
pains to stress Canadian support of Nato
but declined to be drawn into a discussion
as to whether Canada might soon con-
sider joining Seato or the Anzus Pact.
He did point out, qffite properly, that
with Russia a near neighbor of Canada’s,
there was a natural inclination in his
country to think too little about the
problems of Asia and of Australia.
Still, he felt his visit, which was
including a number of Asian countries,
would help to direct more attention from
Canada towards this area. He added, a
little shamefacedly, that although our
Ministers were well known in Canada,
where they usually called on their way to
London or Washington, he himself was
only the third Canadian Minister to come
to Australia in the last 33 years. He
hoped the percentage would improve.
Festivity t
Bushfires ringed Sydney as hundreds of
thousands of last-minute shoppers trained,
bussed and trammed their way into the
city to catch up on their Christmas shop-
ping. The thermometer climbed steadily
through the week to 96 degrees off Wed-
nesday of last week, the hottest Decembet
day for three years.
At the height of the bushfire outbreak,
fire-brigades had nearly a thousand calls,
more than they had ever received before.
On the one day, Wednesday, the fires
destroyed 14 private homes, three farms
and a church. On Friday a complete ban
on lighting fires in the open was ordered
by Chief Secretary Kelly. No. one will
be permitted to boil the picnic billy
during the holiday-period, the State,
subject to the effect of local thunder-
storms, being like a tinder-box.
As the fires raged, Sydney’s beaches
did a' roaring turnover in sweltering
bodies. City-dwellers, workers and
visitors, however, found temperatures
indoors “cooler” than in the open air.
The larger air-conditioned stores, cinemas
and restaurants opened inviting arms to
exhausted window-shoppers.
To cope with the teeming crowds dozens
of extra police (including probationers)
and policewomen were stationed as
traffic-regulators at the city’s major inter-
sections. Taxis, difficult to procure at the
best of times, reached an all-time scarcest.
On Wednesday night the Lord Mayor
officially opened the festive season when
he switched on three miles of colored
lights decorating the city and its
approaches. Highlight of the City
Council’s decorations is a 50ft. pine-
tree festooned with fairy-lights near the
Hyde Park War Memorial. Not to be out-
done, suburban railway-stations, gar-
landed with fairy-lights, had the
Christmassy look, too.
Meanwhile, perhaps heeding the Lord
Mayor’s request to “make the city gay
so overseas tourists who stayed on after
the Olympic Games will carry away a
good impression of Sydney,” the citizens
of Sydney had set about their own
preparations for the festive season.
Hundreds of North Shore gardens
glittered colorfully with illuminated
Christmas-trees of different shapes and
sizes to fit as many different pockets.
From the tenth-story windows of flats at
King’s Cross and Elizabeth Bay more
fairy-lights winked their message of good-
will from smaller, table-size trees. Heat-
wave or no heat-wave, it was Christmas-
time, and Sydneysiders had no intention
of forgetting it!
The stops themselves, however, lacked
some of the sense of inventive fantasy of
past displays.
But on the terrace of a big store oppo-
site the War Memorial end of Hyde Park
weary shoppers sipped coffee to the
accompaniment of recorded carols and
the popping of an unending supply of
diaphanous soap-bubbles.
Though the daily press appeared to be
indulging in columns of wishful-thinking
about a “record spending-spree,” reports
from individual retailers indicated that it
was a “quieter” Christinas in “the trade.”
Book which has taken the fancy of the
crowds this year is Sydney author Colin
Simpson’s The Country Upstairs, a travel-
book on Japan. One shop sold more than
a thousand copies of it in just over two
weeks.
An unusual highlight of the pre-
Christmas season has been the visit of
aboriginal artist Albert Namatjira to the
city. Namatjira, after a rollicking week
of activities—including Tivoli show, TV
appearance and numerous receptions—
raised the eyebrows of his hosts when he
criticised the treatment of aborigines in
the outback.
Air Competition
Air-transport, which has a surprisingly
indifferent press, is one of the fastest-
growing industries in the nation. At
Ansett’s annual meeting in Melbourne
chairman Reginald Ansett announced an
increase of 21 per cent, in passenger
traffic compared with the previous year,
despite strong competition.
Ansett’s total was 231,000 passengers,
which was 39,000 more, and freight rose
1300 tons to 8000 tons, air-miles by
356,000 to 4,673,000, and revenue by
£400,000 to £2,100,000. He gave his
competitors’ passenger-figures as T.A.A.
up 9 per cent, and A.N.A. as down 4|
per cent.
These figures indicated that although a
younger rival was overhauling both, the
chief private competitor in this field was
losing its place to a Government service.
•The full view of A.N.A. and T.A.A
activities is rather different.
A.N.A. is the largest freight-carrier in
the British Commonwealth, and last year
lifted 46,018 short tons (42,636 in the
previous year), compared with T.A.A.’s
21,267 (20,320). The passenger totals of
the two chief competitors were T.A.A.,
743,503 (684,570), and A.N.A. 609,569
(637,154).
Air-freight is becoming the dominant
measuring-stick in aircraft-operation.
The official graph of its growth at the
Department of Civil Aviation shows a
continuous and steep rise each year.
"Opening 11 the Canal
“Ek Dum”: Developments in the past
week show that the Suez crisis is no nearer
being over than the Hungarian affair.
Britain, of course, will be the
greatest sufferer from the delay in re-
opening the canal, along with France,
Norway and the rest of Western Europe.
Norway depends in its economy very
largely on its shipping and passes the
second-largest number of vessels and the
second-greatest amount of tonnage
through the canal each year—about 1900
transfers and 16,000,000 net tons.
On December 12 press correspondents
at a seance with Lieut.-General Wheeler,
the U.S. Army engineer in charge of
clearing the canal, sought to discover what
his intentions were. He praised what had
been done in opening Port Said Harbor,
admitted, that if he could use British-
French resources as well as those
chartered by U.N. from the Dutch and
Danes, Germans and others the canal
would be navigable much earlier. He
agreed that the British and French had
assembled about “as • fine a fleet” for
salvage purposes as could be got together
and he also agreed that there had been
discussions on the basis dictated by Nasser
that the fleet should stay and help with-
out its crews, a proposition utterly un-
tenable.
The U.N. salvage-fleet chartered from
Holland, Denmark, Germany and
Belgium, including two German vessels
chartered formerly by the British, would
assemble in about 10 days’ time at the
north and south ends of the canal.
It was made plain during the interview
that while the Allies had been making
rapid progress in clearing the northern
end of the canal, the Egyptians had done
nothing whatever to prepare the way for
the clearing of the channel at the southern
end.
It seems that at Paris, U.S., U.K. and
France had further discussions of a plan
under which the canal should be handed
over completely to Egypt after having
been cleared, that the U.S. and others
should finance development of the water-
way through the World Bank and canal-
users co-operate with the Egyptian Canal
administration. This arrangement would
be under U.N. sponsorship, which at
present means under United States spon-
sorship, subject to Nasser’s acquiescence
in details.
The whole thing is a complete negation
of everything the U.N. and the U.S. pro-
fess to stand for. And if U.N. and its
dictators expect to have a shred of moral
authority left after acquiescing in such
a procedure they must fie optimists.
By December 14, though there was no
public announcement, Mr. Dulles and
Mr. Selwyn Lloyd, the British Minister,
had discussed the Suez situation and it
was unofficially stated that (videi “The
Times”) “it seems that the United States
is now ready to urge Mr. Hammarskjoeld
to persuade his representatives for salvage
operations in Egypt, General Wheeler and
Mr. McCloy, to do all they can to arrange
for the use of British and French salvage
vessels and crews. These crews, if they
are servicemen, would wear civilian
clothes, with United Nations armbands.”
The fleet would fly U.N. flags, be sub-
ject to the orders of the U.S. controllers
as approved by Nasser, and carry U.N.
identity-cards. But at the time of writing
it looked as if the plan would fall through.
It was estimated by various authorities
that if this arrangement were come to,
the canal might be cleared, for 10,000-ton
vessels at least, within seven to ten weeks
and handed back eventually to Nasser,
who wrecked it, free of charge and in good
order. If British vessels were not used it
might take seven months.
It was then suggested that as soon as
clearance began the status quo as before
the Israeli invasion should be reverted to
and a discussion take place—in New
York, of course—on the future of the
canal, at which Britain and France would
be present as well as Egypt. Altogether,
the arrangement sounded as if a com-
plete surrender of principle, salvage
materiel and staff would be made by the
British and French, preliminary to an
(Continued on next page)


adjournment in Manhattan, twhere they
would be told the future by Washington
and Nasser.
Unfortunately for finality in the Middle
Eastern business, Israel is proving tougher
than either Britain or France. Its
existence is at stake. It has been warned
again and again that the Arab States
intend' to destroy it. It has no faith in the
United Nations, which failed to enforce
the armistice terms and thus produced
the recent incidents. Its Premier, Ben
Gurion, has therefore announced firmly
that in no circumstances will the Gaza
strip from which Israel was subjected to
so much aggressive harassment be
returned to Egypt.
Senator Kefauver, the Democratic
Vice-Presidential candidate, on December
8 described the U.S Middle Eastern
policy as “disgracefully inconsistent. ....
vacillating and indeterminable.”
He declared that in the course of a
“romance” with Nasser, the U.S. had per-
suaded Britain to evacuate the Canal
Zone without obtaining Egyptian guaran-
tees for all of free passage of ships
through the Canal. The romance (he
said) cooled off when Nasser accepted
Russian arms but flowered again when
Mr. Dulles offered American aid to build
the Aswan Dam—only to withdraw the
offer on the very day Egypt accepted it.
Finally, when Egypt nationalised the
canal, the U.S. first threatened economic
sanctions, then offered economic aid.
“With this record,” he said, “it ill
becomes us to adopt a holier than thou
attitude.”
Some of the American press are just as
outspoken. One journal last week
declared that two things saved Nasser
after his army was crushed in Sinai: the
Anglo-French intervention, which made
him a martyr, and the United States.
When the United States rushed to
Nasser’s defence, forced Britain and France
stop their advance and adopted the
unequivocal view that its closest allies
were committing' unjustified aggression, it
gave Nasser the chance to win back,
through nothing costlier than diplomacy,
everything he had lost —Sinai, the canal,
perhaps even a whole new set of planes
and tanks.
Australia’s Mr. Casey was outspoken.
He described Egypt’s blockage of the
canal as “an act of international spite”
which could not be justified on any
military grounds. He expressed “con-
cern and resentment” at the slow progress
being made to open the canal, describing
it as “intolerable that the Egyptian
Government should be allowed to remain
in the position where merely by its say-so
it can block the United Nations from
carrying out the essential international
task of clearing it as quickly as possible.”
A final attack, perhaps the strongest of
all, comes from former Belgian Prime
Minister, M. Spaak, the foundation
president of the United Nations, who has
succeeded Lord Ismay as Secretary-
general of Nato. One of the most influen-
tial and respected statesmen of Europe,
he has written that the brand of justice
meted out to Britain and France over the
Suez Canal was “nothing but a carica-
ture.” He says that “in an organisation
where 'impartiality was supposed to rule,
power or cynicism has actually carried
the day.”
The time will arrive when history may
rob Sir Anthony Eden of the title of
champion blunderer and pin it on to
somebody in Washington.
Washington, indeed, which professes a
fanatical hate of Communism, has in its
actions over the canal and the use of the
United Nations as an instrument of
done more to strengthen
U.S.S.R. influence in Asia than anybody
else has ever done.
POLITICAL POINTS
In celebration of the Anglo-French
withdrawal from Port Said the city is'
decorated with portraits of Nasser.
Feelthy postcards?
• •
Sydney newspaper barons have given
a touching example of the Christmas
spirit. The proprietors of the “Herald”
have stated that they are satisfied that
there was no ground for grave allegations
made in their Column 8 against
executives and staff of Consolidated
Press and they unreservedly withdraw
them. For its part Consolidated Press
states that anything it said about the
“Herald” or its proprietors and executives
“was never intended to reflect upon their
personal integrity.” That tidies-up 1956.
It’s an open-go again after January 1.
• •
Final count in the 'Wentworth by-
election gave the seat to L. H. Bury, the
endorsed Liberal candidate, by 1102 votes.
At the end of the primary count the
figures were: Bury, 13,956; Starr
(Labor), 6455; Robson (Ind. Lib.),
6414; Bartley (Local Lib.), 4109 ;
Sindel (Ind.), 1470 ; Laing (True Lib.),
1167. After Laing, Sindel and Bartley
had been eliminated the scores were:
Bury, 16,766 ; Robson, 9996 ; Starr, 7056.
The split-up of Starr’s prefs. made Bury
17,460 against Robson’s 16,358.
• •
Much of the agitation against Bury’s
nomination for a Lib. blue-ribbon seat
hinged on the fact that he didn’t live in
the electorate, but in reality most of the
votes were against the Government rather
than against Bury. That sort of thing
happens in “safe” seats. When Billy
Hughes died in 1952 the Government was
suffering a temporary decline in popu-
larity, as it is now, and a result was the
big vote recorded for Independents against
the endorsed Liberal, Turner, at the
Bradfield by-election. Yet at the two sub-
sequent general elections Turner rdrnped
home. Bury is an able man, and now he
is in he’s not likely to meet much oppo-
sition next time.
• •
Whatever comfort the Labor party
may derive from the Liberal party’s close
call in Wentworth it won’t get much from
its own candidate’s performance. The
Labor vote was 3000 fewer than at
the last general election.
• •
The Antarctic vessel Kista Dan is
heading south with 29 members of the
Australian National Antarctic Research
Expedition aboard. They’ll study
weather conditions, cosmic rays,
terrestrial magnetism and other fields of
science as part of Australia’s contribution
to the International Geophysical Year.
• •
Gloomy prophecies of mass unemploy-
ment uttered by numerous “Labor” M.P.s
at the beginning of the year and repeated
when import-restrictions were tightened
haven’t been realised. At the end of
November there were 10,096 persons
receiving unemployment-relief. This was
an increase of 551 for the month, but
was 239 fewer than at the end of August.
At the same date there were 27,986
vacancies registered with the Common-
wealth Employment Service, an increase
of 106 during the month ; 36,113 persons
were registered for employment, com-
pared with 33,505 a month earlier. The
monthly review of the Department of
Labor and Industry ascribes this to early
registration by students leaving school.
• •
An American insurance company
which accepted the whole £6O-million risk
for personal-accident to cover the 6000
men of the U.N. police-force in Egypt
has approached British underwriters to
>,cover some of the risk. Weil, the U.S.
policy in the Midcjle East hasn’t inspired
too much confidence lately.
• •
A standing committee on productivity
has been appointed by the Ministry of
Labor Advisory Council; it includes
representatives of the Chambers of Com-
merce and Manufactures and of the
A C.T.U. A good idea, but the name
doesn’t seem quite right. What is needed
is a dynamic committee, not a standing
one.
• »
Sydney Lord Mayor Jensen has pio-
mised to make a careful investigation
before deciding the rights and wrongs ot
a recent decision to shift fruit-barrows
from George-street. He says:
No pressure from barrowmen or from
any political sources will detei us nom
making a careful investigation before
taking action one way or the othei.
So for the meantime we don’t know
whether the barrows are coming or
going. # #
All argument between Protectionists
and Freetraders didn’t die out when a
protective tariff became the accepted
policy of the Commonwealth. The
wrangle still rages. When it was
announced last week that there had been
a considerable improvement in overseas
trade figures in recent months two com-
ments were quickly forthcoming. K. F.
Coles, president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, promptly urged
a relaxation of import-restrictions, saying
CHRISTMAS-BOX FROM WENTWORTH
that this could be done without depleting
overseas reserves. Latham Withall,
director of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce, came back quickly with a
warning against “precipitate action.” He
urged that the first loosening of controls
should be in respect of essential raw
materials and capital equipment.
On this occasion Withall was on sound
ground. We cannot stabilise our over-
seas-trade position until we are regularly
exporting manufactured goods on a con-
siderable scale, and this predicates
imports of raw materials and capital
equipment with which to make the goods.
• •
One of the bitterest disappointments
suffered by the Sydney press during 1956
was when a case of alleged “scandalous
conduct” was held in closed court and
press-reports barred.
• •
Denying claims that New Australians
are responsible for an increase in serious
crime, Superintendent Caiman (chief of
the N. S. Wales C. 1.8.) said that the
increase was due merely to the general
increase in the population and that it was
offset by an increased number of arrests.
“Crimes committed by New Australians
this year were only fractional.” Frac-
tional? Does that mean that when a New
Australian sets out to commit a crime
he only half-does it? Or is it that several
New Aussies band themselves together to
commit one crime?
• •
Production of “general-purpose” syn-
thetic rubber will begin in Britain in
1958, but the Board of Trade declares
that Malayan exports of natural rubber
won’t be adversely affected, “because the
world demand for natural rubber is
sufficient to absorb the total supplies.”
Rubber-growers in Malaya and elsewhere
may consider that statement a little
elastic.
• o
Sales of premium savings-bonds,
promised by the British Chancellor of the
Exchequer last April, began in November.
On the first day sales totalled £5 million.
The bonds do not bear interest but there
are monthly drawings for prizes ranging
from £25 to £lOOO. Bonds are not
transferable, but may be repaid at any
time on application ; they are included in
each successive draw until they are repaid
or the holder dies.
« #
Swartz, M.H.R., Parliamentary
Secretary for Trade, is forecasting that
exports of manufactured and semi-
manufactured goods will be 30 per cent,
higher this financial year than in 1955-56.
He says that rising standards of living in
South-east Asia are creatipg a big demand
which offers an excellent opportunity for
Australian exporters. The opportunity
has been there ever since the war, but
unfortunately this country hasn’t taken
full advantage of it.
0 0
Where do our politicians get their
knowledge of Australian slang? Debat-
ing the Sugar Agreement Bill, Senator
Wood (Lib., Q.), commenting on the
decline in the consumption of jam, said,
“It was accepted in years gone by that
on every dinner-table there had to be a
pot of jam.” At 'this Senator Maher
(C.P., Q.) interjected, “The ‘cocky’s
joy.’ ” Senator Wood agreed, “Yes, the
‘cocky’s joy.’ ” Stone the crows! Don’t
these pollies even know their own
language? “Cocky’s joy” means treacle
or golden-syrup—items much more
closely related to the Sugar Agreement
than jam.
• «
The N. S. Wales executive of the
A.L.P. last week endorsed the expulsion
of 45 members. It also withdrew the
charter of the Erskineville, Mosman and
Alexandria branches and suspended that
of the Waverley branch. The majority
of the expelled members had walked out
of the party and joined the Democratic
“Labor” party; these included the
secretaries of the Erskineville and
Alexandria branches. Others were
expelled for opposing A.LIP. candidates
at municipal elections.
• •
Sydney “Tribune” still professes to
believe that the Hungarian rising is a
movement of Fascist reactionaries against
the properly - constituted Hungarian
Government.
• •
Up to the end of October exports of
aircraft and parts from the United
Kingdom totalled £stg.B9.3 million ; it
seemed certain that the £stg,loo million
would be reached by the end of the yea.r.
• •
From C. H. Voss, Clamart, Seine,
France: —-
In B. 11/4/’56 I mentioned that Communism
in France was on the wane. The violent
incidents, following on the Hungarian drama,
during which the Communist party’s offices
were partially burnt out, have been a serious
setback to the disciples of Stalin. The Com-
munist party in France will never recover from
the blow.
In a Bulletin article at the beginning ot the
year it was stated that France was a stumbling-
block to her allies. Her resolute action in the
Suez affair doesn’t confirm such a contention.
It must not be forgotten that the French wanted
to go right through to Suez and occupy the
whole of the canal. The cease-fire was a great
disappointment to them. Again it must be
remembered that, if any observers from the U.N.
go to Hungary, it will be due to the vigorous
appeal of Pineau, the French Foreign
Minister.
The dilatory methods of the U.N. have
given Nasser a breathing-space, and, with the
backing of the U.S.S.R., he will be more difficult
than before. The French are very concerned
about Israel, which, if not protected by the
U.N., will be obliterated from the map by the
hordes of Arabs surrounding the tiny State.
Israel, well on the way to topple Nasser from his
perch, was, like the British and French, called
to order, and made the scapegoat.
If the world, during the last few weeks, was
on the verge of war, it was entirely Nasser s
fault. It was Nasser who has been arming
consistently the Algerian terrorists. The
capture of the Athos, carrying a huge cargo ot
arms and munitions, was positive proof ol
Nasser’s complicity. There are good reasons,
therefore, for France’s disappointment at npt
being allowed, with her British allies, to get rid
of the dictator once and for all.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
OOME say it was our habit of
putting-on Said; others that we
were off-Said; others that we were no
sooner inSaid than we were out Sai d;
others remind us that Shakspeare foresaw
it: “Thou Said, thou unnecessary letter! ”
And so, in the season of Passing the Port,
enough Said. —“Suky Tansee.” *
❖ ❖ *4*
“Rumel”: One of those overheard-in-
the-Christmas-shopping-rush scraps of
conversation, about which I shall be lost
in surmise for weeks to come; “I hear
Doris is sick ; what’s wrong with her?”
“I haven’t a clue, dear, but you know
Doris—it’s sure to be something
glamorous . . .! ”
“Emptor”: Describing the first water-
polo match televised in Melbourne the
commentator told us: “If you look
towards the centre of the pool you will
see the ball which the players use. It is
a round ball.” I suppose it’s necessary;
that morning I had seen a square egg at
the Department of Trade packaging
exhibition.
“Mac Hoots”: I enjoyed Mr. Eddie
Samuels’s comic-opera “Song of the
Snowy” enormously in the A.B.C. broad-
cast. It sounded like “The Maid of the
Mountains,” “Rose Marie” and “The Girl
of the Golden West” all rolled into one:
with romance. New Australians, heroic
guides, noble sentiments about this great
national undertaking, and everything.
But, as a purist in poetry, with an ear too
sensitive to the excruciating, might I beg
Mr. Samuels not to rhyme “moan” with
“home” every time the wild winds moan
up there?
♦jt
“Tom”: It’s remarkable the number of
unlikely houses that sport television-
aerials. In my walks about my home
suburb I often pass brand-new luxury
villas unadorned by abstract TV sculp-
tures, then come across a shabby old
cottage proudly topped by its aerial. In
a street of small wooden cottages built
about 50 years ago—the area. has long
been restricted to brick —two had
television; one was newly-painted and
neatly kept, but its neighbor looked as if
the paintbrush hadn’t been applied to it
since the original coat, and its front garden
was a wilderness. Perhaps it was a case
of “keeping up with the Joneses,” or
maybe television is an outward and visible
sign of an inward and unostentatious
wealth, denoting who the Joneses really
are.
❖
“W.P.T.”: Bathurst (N.S.W.), with a
population round about 15,000, has 17
hotels, yet Katoomba (N.S.W.), with a
population of over 16,000, rising to over
60,000 in the holiday season, has only
three hotels. Probably this is because of
Katoomba’s resolve that visitors who are
paying to see the Three Sisters don’t get
away with seeing six.
£« +> +X+
“L.R.M.”: Asked a six-year-old with a
Newstralian name where she came from,
and was slightly discomforted when she
answered, “From a cabbage, of course.”
❖ ❖ *t*
“8.N.F.”: The report here of the lady
who so womanfully switched from spring
to autumn cleaning to meet exigencies of
different climate in Australia goes to
show that the pioneer spirit is still on
deck. She is several times up on the
unhardy souls who have given up
Christmas-dinners of roast-beef and plum-
pudding, with or without snapdragon, at
between 90 and 100 in the shade. Now
that Hallowe’en is being introduced into
Australia, who will step in to correct the
seasonal festivals to their rightful place
in the year, swapping it over to make
place for Easter in the spring? Maybe,
too, there are aboriginal rituals with
appropriate terminology adapted to
festivals rooted in the soil!
. ♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“Roger Mike”: The W.A. Education
.Department requires teachers to attend
15 minutes before school starts. During
his first term young Chalker was always
late —and whiskery. Came the holidays,
and next term he was at least punctual
and less whiskery. It was during the
third term, when his electric-razor was
almost run-in, that the headmaster,
attracted by unusual sounds, copped him
shaving in class. Since then he has bought
an alarm-clock.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Vega”: A contest between a youth
determined to get into jail and a Brisbane
magistrate trying to keep him out
resulted in victory for the youngster, but
only after stealing his third car and park-
ing it outside the C. 1.8. The prisoner
no doubt will, behave well during his two
months in Boggo Road under threat of
being turned out if he doesn’t.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: Simple piety can’t be alto-
gether dead. The other day I was talked
into lugging a great bunch of flowers to a
distant suburb for a Christmas do. Two
elderly women boarded the train at
Redfern and settled themselves in the
compartment with me and the blooms.
One of them took an eyeful of the
agapanthus. “Stars of Bethlehem,” she
said. “Isn’t it marvellous they should
be out at Christmas-time?” But the other
had caught sight of my crucifix (poor-
man’s) orchids, and had pushed across to
investigate. “See, Rose,” she exclaimed,
pointing to that portion of the orchid
which ,could pass for a crucified figure ;
“this is far more wonderful. Our Lord
on the Cross!” Then they genuflected
just as people do in church or before
wayside Calvaries in Europe.
■£♦ <£♦
“Narumee”: The copywriters have dis-
covered child-psychology. An ad. in an
English.weekly describes a box of bricks
“Thank you, Angus; the Wee bairn's asleep the noo."
as a suitable gift for a four-year-old, and
adds: “Each brick laid will stimulate his
desire to create.” That couldn’t be more
correct, but hardly in the sense intended.
From my kinder-teaching days I remem-
ber how one kid would pile bricks one
on top of the other, and another knock
them down with a malevolent grin. The
builder would create all right, usually
by bashing the wrecker, who’d retaliate,
and*then there’d be two creating.
■ijf
“Ceg”: Tell “Hattie Hop” (B.
12/12/’56) that the man in possession of
that T\?-set would have to give it up, as
it was not acquired in market overt.
Knew a bloke who bought a car, paying
cash for it, from a firm of suburban
motor-traders who had it on display in
their show-window facing the street; he
received formal notice requiring him to
surrender it to the manufacturer’s agents
on the ground that the car was under
H.-p. agreement to them from the suburban
dealers. He got legal advice that, having
bought in open market, his title was
good. But the legal gent, also advised that
the car be not left standing about
unattended, and be locked-up at night
because in case of an attempt to repossess
he would have been put to the trouble
and expense of suing for its return. That
left suing to the others, and they did
nothing ; but it was a good try-on.
“Dolphin”: Running lengthwise along
modern warships are large pipes carrying
sea-water for firefighting, and to provide
icy showers, especially popular in the
tropics. The pumps which circulate the
water under high pressure can, if
necessary, suck oil-fuel from the tanks
and deliver it to the boilers. An elderly
leading-stoker was behind in his work;
the watch was nearing its end; in his
haste he accidentally opened the suction-
valve of a pump, so that it began sucking
from an oil-tank. He then set it discharg-
ing to the officers’ showers. The oncoming
watch-below took-over; the engineer-
officer handed-over and scooted off for
a quick shower. His opinion of elderly
leading-stokers was never made public.
“Bettibelle”: Go easy, par.-writers who
make pin-money out of radio-announcers’
mistakes. The announcer has only him-
self to blame for bloomers like “Clown
Prosecutor” and “West Windies,” but in
many cases blame the script-writer. An
over-abundance of sibilants, harmless
enough on paper, can be disastrous when
read aloud. An announcer reading a com-
mercial for a country store in our town
said “Yes, Bloggs stock everything, from
sheer stockings to seal stinks.” I feel I
must defend him —I wrote the copy.
“Ranger”: Having been persuaded to
read “Romeo and Juliet,” I notice that the
Bard was long-sighted enough to foresee
that piece of kindly advice “Draw y OUr
neck out of the collar” worded slightlv
differently in these more civilised times as
“Pull yer ’ead in.”
♦> \
“8.A.K.”: All women are not Mamie
Eisenhowers; hence the flap when two
young wives arrived at our Big Do of
the year wearing frocks identical in color
and material and very similar in design.
We males, of course, noticed nothing, but
every female in the hall had twigged the
calamity within three seconds. It was
their “Oh, the poor things! ” that woke us
up. By that time the poor things were
fairly bolting for different exits. An
hour later both were back, each clad in
her second-best. That’s the trouble with
women —no faith in reasonable parley.
A spun coin and one could have stayed-
put in No. 1 gladrags.
* *
“Aerogenes”: Young Cedric astonished
us by announcing, after his latest dis-
appointment in love, that he was going
to get a horse; for in this motor age a
good horse is almost as hard to come by
as a good woman. Maybe Cedric’s an
anachronism, too: he wants one.
<«• +>
INTENTION of Hal Gye in connection
IV! w ith The Bulletin’s serialising of
Low’s Autobiography brings back the
time when Hal and I spent a fortnight in
Tasmania, gathering material for a small
book, which duly paid the expenses x of
the jaunt. In Hobart we met David
Low, who was on a Bulletin assignment
covering the island’s notabilities.
Low seemed above-average height,
slim, and a dressy model. And how he
could talk! But he was also a champion
to walk, anywhere, any distance; talk
at the same time.
When Gye and I left Launceston we
firmly intended to ride our bikes to
Hobart, but retired at Ross and caught
the train. Gye was dressed in neat riding-
breeches with smart leggings, and, with
his snap-brim hat, looked like the rider
of ten Cup-winners. I was dressed in a
roll-necked sweater with a, cap (pants,
too), and looked like an amiable pug,
being six-foot-two and broad.
These travelling-outfits provided a
couple of amusing incidents.
The morning after our arrival at Hobart
we were meandering our way to the
railway-station for our good clothes
when a Damon Runyon character stopped
me: “So y’re over here to have a go at
Court Oaks, are y’?” I knew Court Oaks
from my schooldays in Hobart. He was
now a rough, tough Tasmanian heavy-
weight champion and worth keeping away
from. “That’s right, mate,” I said; “I’m
going to have a good big piece of him.
Been sparring with Bill Lang the past
two months. In great form.” “Have
y’, now?” said the character; “it might
be worth havin’ a quid on y’.”
Again dressed in road-outfit we caught
the 8 a.m. train out of Hobart. On the
way another character leaned across to
Gye and said, “What you ridin’ today,
son?” Gye raised his eyebrows and
looked at me. Evidently races somewhere.
I nodded, looked as wise as I could, and
said, “Might as well, we’ve got our money
on.” Gye turned to the character, and,
with that quizzical smile of his, said,
“We’re taking two horses along. Now,
the one you see me riding in the third
will be the one.”
TIM.
RESURGENCE
I feared the Games had sapped away
The murderous pleasures of my day,
And, angrily resigned to read
The praise of Beauty, Youth and Speed,
And more-or-less preparing for
Love-sonnets by the Editor,
I was most pleasantly surprised
To find my fears unrealised;
For though the Season bodes them ill
With threats of genial goodwill,
The front-page men revert to Fact
With GIRL’S SHOCK DEATH and
TWO MEN HACKED:
“Oh, heaven be praised!” 1 told my wife,
“I feared they’d lost their faith in life !”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


HARD to say whether it is a reflection
of the spirit of the people, but
my dictionary takes up a page-and-a-
half in defining that rather distasteful
word “work.” Play gets only a quarter-
page ; obviously the compilers think
people would rather read about work
than do a bit.—“Nidus.”
* ♦> ♦>
“El Arem”: A character in one of our
daily’s comic-strips started to cook
“Still teaching maths at the college, Wakson?”
spaghetti a week ago and still hasn't got
round to making the sauce. Maybe it’s
the answer to inflation.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Chip”: N.S.W. Transport Depart-
ment has put up for sale a number of
trolley-buses (displaced from the roads by
ordinary buses) and tram-seats from £2O-
- for handy and economical weekenders.
People live in old-fashioned old trams
and buses all over the State, but to live
in an old trolley-bus—that is the height
of fashion ; and here, too, may be one’s
only chance of sitting on a tram-seat.
❖ *X* *l*
“Jake”: Reading through the' 1915
“Punch” Annual, I happened to notice
this:
Voice on telephone (from Berlin): “Well,
have you dammed the Suez Canal yet?
Turk: “Yes— often!”
❖ * *
“Pallamana”: Touching on Peter
Simple’s” overworked word “structure
(B. 17/10/’56), I’d nominate “step-up.”
Nowadays production is always stepped-
up,” never increased; particularly in
radio news-sessions. Nobody ever
“decides” or “prepares,” they always
“plan.” Runner-up must be
“scraping the bottom of the barrel. A
quirk of radio news-readers and an-
nouncers is their inability to pronounce
“subsidiary”; it comes out as “sub-
siduary”; I’ve yet to hear that i
sounded. And they tack superfluous
“r’s” on the end of words like “law.”
*X* *X*
“Two Jays”: Where is this “fresh”
business going to end? My frozen-fish is
labelled “ocean fresh,” dehydrated
vegetables are “garden fresh,” tinned
pineapple is “plantation fresh, butter is
“dairy fresh,” and dried fruits are
“orchard fresh.” Pies are advertised as
“oven fresh.” I am now awaiting a
description of tinned meat will it be
“abattoir fresh” or “flesh fresh,” I
wonder?
* * *
“Aeolus”: His rather old car pulled
into the kerb, and he was underneath
making adjustments. Stretched out on
his back and struggling to put things right
he was quite invisible to the driver of the
powerful gutter-flusher approaching, and
as it passed he copped the lot. Difficult
to assess who was more surprised, the
motorist who got a shower when least
expecting it or the gutter-flusher driver
who was flooded with a stream of abuse
as the saturated motorist struggled from
beneath his car.
* ♦>
“Lorna'Doone”: The play was “The
Deep Blue Sea.” As the curtain came
down at the first interval I thought of the
heroine’s unsuccessful bid for suicide, her
thoughtless sport-loving paramour and
her rejection of her reserved, judicial
husband. The complete stranger next to
me said, “She’s in a proper mess, isn’t
she?” 1 replied, “Indeed she is. Per-
sonally I’d have had a go at warming the
judge up with a bit of affection!” “Ah
no, dear, that would never have done —■
he’s green wood!"
“Castlereagh”: The few frauds of
doctors and chemists against Australia’s
National Health scheme have been mild
affairs compared with those in French
colonies. The French Vice-Minister for
Health says a penniless patient in French
Guiana cost the public authority nearly
16 times as much a year as one in France.
A Guadeloupe doctor claimed £15,562 for
his year’s service at 500 francs for each
consultation by a-n indigent person. This
meant, the Minister pointed out, an
average of 100 patients a day. The doctor
claimed to have seen 203 patients in one
day, and had been paid £125 for that
day’s work. A French Guiana medico
secured £4690 for services to a town
of 2600 people (all indigent); he pre-
scribed medicines to the value of £27,325
—all ordered from two chemists’ shops
at a distance of 200 miles, run by his
“Dear Dorothy Dix: Shortly my boyfriend and I are becoming engaged,
but We are of different religions...."
brother and sister. Martinique returns
revealed allegedly plague-stricken com-
munes where the number of sick people
last year considerably outnumbered the
rest of the population. All of them, in-
cluding employers of labor, shopkeepers,
tax-collectors, postmasters and policemen,
were apparently indigent.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Emtee”: To savings-bank tellers,
bottles of threepences, boxes of pennies
and halfpennies, and socks full of dirty
notes are all part of the job, but a teller
of my acquaintance was rocked to his
rubber-bands when a depositor staggered
up to his box carrying a very full
kerosene-tin. “Just sold my car to a bloke
up-country,” was his cheery explanation.
“He paid me in two-bob pieces!”
♦>
“Me Me”: Our bright young baker
toots the horn of his iriotor-van as he
nears our place. “Saves time,” he explains
briskly. “I’d never get my run done other-
wise. The best way is to leave your order
and something to wrap it in on the stairs.”
Shades of the old days! A two-wheeled,
horse-drawn vehicle, with a tall boxlike
container for the bread tilted precariously
backwards, and the baker perched high ;
the baker lugging his basket in and out of
the customers’ houses while Dobbin
rested. I can remember the baker bring-
ing my mother a basket more than half-
full of mangoes two or three times a
week while they were in season. “Only
go to waste, Missus,” he explained to
Mum. “I told Mrs. So-and-so [a few
streets away] that you could use them,
with all your children.” There were 10
of us. The surplus v/as made into mango-
chutney, and the baker scored a few
pickle-bottles of the home-made, com-
menting, “Best turn I ever did myself.”
♦j* ♦j* +X+
“Geep”: Some officers will sign any-
thing put in front of them (B. 21/11 /’56),
but not all. A mate of mine, a medically-
grounded Spitfire pilot, browned-off with
office-work, was told to draft a specifica-
tion for protective treatment of engine-
parts during storage, and appended to a
long list of spares treatable: “rags, bags,
bones and bottles.” He sent the typed
draft to the Squadron-Leader as a mild
sort of joke, but to his horror it was
signed and whisked across to the Grouper
without amendment. The Grouper didn’t
miss it... or my mate.
“Apemantus”: Nagged about a requisi-
tion apparently signed by a medical-
officer away on leave, Sister-in-charge was
indignantly defensive. “Of course it’s his
signature! What more do you want? It
has to be 5 ” she insisted; “his is the only
one I can copy.”
*l* *>
“Tom Trout” (London): In the
’twenties we Sydney kids chased after the
occasional whiskered old gentleman,
crying “Ziff!” In the ’forties, bearded
myself, it was taken for granted I was
an eccentric or in “Eureka Stockade.” But
in England today, too many flourishing
growths adorn the faces of young men to
provoke comment —and, to cancel charges
of aestheticism, I’ve spotted a building
laborer, an electrician and—ln Blackpool,
of all places—a tram-conductor, all with
Ned Kelly growths. It was disconcerting,
then, to have my latest modest effort
greeted with ribald laughter in France ;
and, in Italy, one of my landlords went
so far as to make a mock assault on it
with his nail-scissors—not, apparently, a
distaste for beards as such, but a penchant
for tailored ones, which makes an over-
all fungus seem as barbaric to them as
moustaches sans beards were to the
ancient Rdmans.
THINGS WE’D LIKE TO SEE
A dentist with hollow
Tooth, trying not to swallow
While colleague is filling the cavity ;
An M.P., maintaining,
While rival is gaining
Near vote-counting end, all his suavity ;
A doc., testifying
In witness-box, trying
To nut-out his own queer calligraphy ;
The radio quizmaster
Who misses a plaster
Through not knowing what is
“tachygraphy
A candid snap, taken
Soon afterJ she’s shaken
Awake, of a haughty - miened
mannequin;
Society matron
Who proudly lends patron—
Age, gurgling champagne from tin-
pannikin ;
The preacher whose sermon
Has had ’em all squirmin’
Compelled (what could be more
ironical ?)
To hear played-back taping,
With consequent gaping
At voice that’s so deadly parsonical.
The nudist-club member
In early September
Who cracks His top set, teeth
a-chattering;
The fan at the talkie
Who’s given the walkie
Because she just can’t stop her
nattering;
A new ladies’ college
For “finishing”-knowledge,
And called in the ad. “dignatorium”;
And, for benedicts copping
The burdens of shopping,
Beer-gardens in every emporium! '
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
HAPPY MEW YEAR
I GANT vouch for the age of my
grandfather-clock, but it could be
older than some that Bulletin contribu-
tors’ pars, have exhibited; it was my
Granny’s and came into our home on
her death. I would be round about six
or seven years then. It refused to tick and
was treated as an ornament.
At. about 10 I itched to get inside it;
1 locked the door of my room and, with
several plates to hold the pieces, began
dissecting. Having gone as far as I
thought safe I reset the parts and put the
old chap back in his mahogany case, gold-
colored rope filling the corners of the
face. It now ticked, one-a-second, and
kept good time.
When I was 15-16 my father had'a
German clockmaker inspect it carefully ;
he said it was in as good order as it could
be. It met with hard knocks on public
works in Scotland and England; then it
made the big shift from England to Aus-
tralia in 1910, and wandered about
Queensland —Cordalba, Gayndah, Ipswich
and two other Brisbane suburbs.
DURING the war, when I got put out
of the house I rented and had to
build a temporary home, the works were
stowed away in a box. Six months ago I
opened the box and could hardly see the
works for spider-webs; I burned them o 2
with lighted paper, gave the works a
kerosene-bath, repaired two working-
parts, started the pendulum, and it ticked.
The bell is of good solid metal and the
hammer is heavy enough to give it a good
thump, but in tinkering about to stop it
striking two minutes before the hour I
made it strike 8 at 7 and 11 at 10.
This misleads the neighbors; when I
get time I’ll have to correct it. But I’m
getting to like the auld clock ; I’m reach-
ing close to 84 years now, and it’s comfort-
ing to hear it hammer oot the wee sma’
’oors in the nicht, even if not precisely the
richt anes. In my opinion it’s about 180
to 200 years old, and it will see the New
Year in in as good time as the A.B.C. —
and beat them by an hour to the strike.
DEE'LAK.


For speed, smoothness and pressurised comfort
1
sr
HE?
Kwwm
TAA VISCOUNTS
Australia’s most popular airliners
Bookings : TAA Booking Offices in all States or any authorised Travel Agent.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The surprising thing about Roland
Robinson, whose aboriginal legends in
The Feathered Serpent have just beep
published, is that he was born in
England: a proof that talent can always
overcome such a disadvantage ; for, just
as his legends sound more authentically
aboriginal than anyone else’s, so his
poetry of the desert seems to spring
straight from the hot Australian, earth.
He got the material for The Feathered
Serpent by travelling the Northern
Territory on a motorbike —which, since
he fell off every five miles or so, may
partly explain his intimate contact with
the earth. By profession he is a green-
keeper at a Sydney golf-course.
• •
“Fitz”: Well, David Low has certainly
gone a long way in black-and-white art
since, at the age of 11, in 1902, he used
to win, month after month, the drawing-
competition conducted on the children’s
page of W. H. Fitchett’s magazine “The
New Idea.” One of the drawings, I
remember, was of a pig, and when, later,
I first saw it, I was struck by the smooth-
flowing line, even at that stage of his
development. No doubt his first book,
Low’s Annual, published in his native
N.Z. in 1908, would not be easy to come
by these days, but there are copies to be
had in Sydney of his Caricatures, pub-
lished in 1915, and of The Billy Book,
published in 1918 by the N.S.W. Book-
stall Co., with an introduction by James
Edmond. Since he left these parts David
Low’s name has appeared on the title-
pages of nearly 30 other illustrated books.
• •
The sky was the limit for criticism of
R.A.A.F. leaders during the war, and
for some years after it; but there was
little, if any, of Felix R. W. (Scherg)
Scherger, the Air-Vice-Marshal who has
been named by the Prime Minister as the
next leader of the
R.A.A.F. Despite his
eminence in the
service, he has
retained most of his
popularity ; he owns
one of the chief
attributes of success,
an ability to get on
with people. Popu-
larity in the Service
is one thing—but he
was also popular with
Asians during his
recent two years as
commander of the
R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
forces in Malaya.
Scherger is a pro-
duct of Ararat (Vic.)
and Duntroon, and
didn’t join the
R.A.A.F. until he
had graduated. The
R.A.A.F. held him in
reserve for, the early
part of the war, to be
rewarded by his zeal
and bravery 1 when he
was unleashed in
New Guinea. One
of the outstanding
pilots of the Pacific
war, leader of the
First Tactical Air Force, he commanded
No. 10 Operational Group in New
Guinea and the assaults on Aitape
(Wewak) and Noemfoor Island ; though
badly smashed-up he came back flying, as
his officers and men knew he would.
The R.A.A.F. reckons an airman should
fly, particularly The Brass. They have
one in Scherger. At 52 he flies jets.
• •
It was known among his cobbers in the
retail-trade and in newspaper-offices in
Melbourne for some months that Sir
Norman Myer was incurably ill, but the
end came last week very suddenly indeed.
He had been expected to live a year.
Unlike the other Australian capitals,
one department-shop dominates Mel-
bourne the Myer Emporium and
Norman Myer (with, of course, the post-
war boom behind him) made it the fifth-
biggest shop in the world.
Myer claimed to envy George J. Coles,
opposite him in Bourke-street, controlling
the biggest retail-chain in Australia —
“Wonderful shops! All cash!” —but
Coles, at least until the acquisition of the
Penneys chain in Queensland, used to
lament that Myer’s still had in its one
centre a greater length of selling-counters
than all of Coles.
Myer’s life was devoted almost
exclusively to the business, and he was
about the shop every day, and often after
hours. Quick buying and selling
fascinated him. He wasn’t interested in
politics, but he loved Melbourne very
much, and the Civic Development
Association, which, on the whole, has
been a good influence in the city, was a
Myer front.
Kenneth Baillieu Myer, a son of Sidney
Myer, the founder, seems certain to be the
next chairman, but the financial brains of
the big shop, Arnot H. Tolley, joint
managing-director, will still listen to the
rhythm of the cash-registers.
• •
Just as The Bulletin’s blockmakers
were starting on the David Low cartoon
on pags 22 of this Patrick McMahon
Glynn dropped into the Sydney office on
his way back to Westralia after visiting
Melbourne for the Olympics—he is a son
of the Patrick McMahon Glynn who
figures in the Low drawing and who was
a member of the first Commonwealth
Parliament and spent 20 years in the
Federal House. The son, Adelaide-born
and Melbourne-educated, went to the
West in 1929, took-up 1400 acres at
WESTRALIAN GRAZIER
Boyup Brook, and raises fat lambs—
Corriedales —thereon. In Melbourne he
was particularly impressed by the courtesy
and efficiency of the police and by the
runners —he represented South Australia
in the half-mile and mile in the 1924 and
1926 Australian championships; he also
played cricket and Rules, but these days
sticks mainly to golf and fishing—par-
ticularly in the early autumn when the
herring in their millions darken the waters
of W.A.’s south-west coast.
• •
Touched-down at Perth on his way to
Sydney, Norman Granville Beale, an old
China hand, now 72, who was sent to
China by a British firm of electrical-
engineers in 1909 and has lived there ever
since. At the moment he’s intent on
seeing as much of the world as he can.
Ship-salvage is a hobby, and his home in
Hong Kong is a base for visiting
salvage-concerns from all over the world.
• •
“F.R.G.S.A.”: Dan O’Brien (B.
12/12/’56) is the honorary general
director-secretary of the RoyaL
Geographical Society of Australasia
(Queensland), in addition to being the
honorary treasurer. A protege of the
founder (Dr. J. P. Thompson), Dan has
served the society in a strictly honorary
capacity for more years than this Fellow
can remember. He has pulled it up by the
shoestraps from a struggling “study
circle” to a strong organisation with head-
quarters on Brisbane’s busy Anne-street.
Add to his already-listed accomplish -
mehts those of author {Adventures of
Stephen Kelly), raconteur, lecturer, and—
altar boy; possibly the oldest in Queens-
land, because Dan’s well past his three-
score vears and ten.
• •
“H.M.N.”: Mrs. Pratten, of Turee,
N.S.W. (B. 12/12/’56), can be sure that
the lines on her tray are a paraphrase of
part of Will Ogilvie’s ballad “The Station
Brand.” In my Fair Girls and Gray
Horses the full stanza goes:
For ask of the drovers from North of Bourke,
The Kings of the Overland,
Which are the horses to stand the work:
They will tell you—the Tringa brand!
And question the mailmen in flood-stress met,
Flogging, down in the mud,
Which are the pearls when the plains are wet:
They will tell you—the Tringa blood!
And ask the men of the Furthest Back
What their favorite campers are
In the whirling dust when the stockwhips crack;
And it’s TRI and a Bar!
“Tringa,” or “Tringadee,” was a station-
name, probably imaginary, which Ogilvie
used in two other poems, “The Muster
from Tringadee” and “Taken Over”—the
first, the nostalgic thoughts of a blind
man taken to a yard of Tringa cattle by
his mate, and the other referring to the
old station being taken over by the banks.
The Bulletin par. assumes that the
brand mentioned, D R, was used on
cattle; but in this case the reference is
to the horses, or “campers” as the horses
used on drafting-camps are called. It is
also certain that Turee horses, and not the
Dangar Suffolks, are meant; wonderful
horses though the latter were, they were
not “campers.”
You will probably be deluged with
answers to Mrs. Pratten’s query.
Ogilvie’s verses stuck. . An aunt of mine
corresponded with him for years after
he returned to his native Scotland, and
through all his letters ran his love for
this country and the horses and horseman-
ship of his youth.
• •
One of Victoria’s best-known school-
masters, “Bosh” Bowden, has called it a
day after 55 years at Scotch College as
boy, master and vice-principal. Captain
of the school, cricket captain (the first
boy to score 1000 runs in a season), foot-
ball captain (kicked 21 goals in a game
against Xavier) dux of modern languages ;
Rules League footballer, Old Digger,
and for many years senior French master.
A pleasant par. by a Melbourne “Sun”
columnist on Bowden’s retirement raises
the question—common enough in any dis-
cussion of schoolmasters —of the origin
of his nickname: “We’re told it’s short
for boshter —that schoolboy expression
which means the hallmark of excellence.”
Bulletin contributor “Young Greenie”
disagrees:
While not for one moment depreciating
the fact that he was, is, and to us his boys
always will be “boshter” in the sense
mentioned, I feel that the explanation of the
nickname misses the point—an important
- one since it is a key to his character. It
is a terse summary of his reaction to
, pretension, heroics, skiting, lies, and such
faults and attitudes of boys and men to
which a proper reply might well be “Oh,
bosh!”
An interesting point is that neither
“Young Greenie” nor the “Sun” writer
mentions Bowden’s Christian names or
even initials. Jim Abercrombie, Bulletin
financial writer, went to Scotch. Con-
sulted, he seemed amazed that anyone
should ask such a question. “Why, he’s
just called Bosh—has been for years and
years.” And that, when you come to
think about it, is a special kind of fame.
• •
T. M. Ashby, who has had 35 years of
civic administration in Auckland (N.Z.),
including 12 years as Town Clerk—he
resigned last year—is now Mayor of
AUCKLAND'S MAYOR
Auckland. He’s the first man to bring
off the double, in that sequence, in the
city’s history, but it’s been done in reverse.
P. A. Philips, Auckland’s first Mayor,
later became Town Clerk and held down
the job for 27 years. The new man is
an accountant, secretary and solicitor,
and was awarded an 0.8. E. in 1951.
• •
The Commonwealth Bank’s latest
grant for research in Agricultural
Economics goes to establish 38-year-old
Henry Paul Schapper, of Perth, as
Reader in that subject at the University
of Western Australia. ‘The grant came
hard on the heels of Schapper’s Ph.D.
from that Uni. Senior researCh-fellow in
Ag.Ec. in the Institute of Agriculture,
much of his recent researching has been
into the resources and returns of five
major farming regions in W.A.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 36, F. J. (Jim) Philp, eldest
son of Mr. Justice Philp. Accountant with the
C.S.R., he served with the R.A.A.F. in World
War 11. ' „
On the island of Majorca, at 59, John R.
Govett, since 194-1 chairman of Consolidated
Zinc Corporation and its principal sub-
sidiaries. His father, F. A. Govett, was one
of the founders and the first chairman ot
Zinc Corporation.
At Fremantle, at 71, Herbert Gladstone
Wilson, full-time secretary of the Fremantle
R.S.L. sub-branch. His war-service was with
the R.A.N. —he came to Australia, on loan from
the Royal Navy, in 1913 —and in W.A. he was
on the R.S.L. State Executive for several terms.
Like his father before him, and his son, a
distinguished Science graduate, he was a Free-
man of the City of London.
In Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital, at 62,
Alexander Henry Dennett, M.L.A. for Caulfield
(Vic.) from 1945 to 1955. He was Mimster
for Agriculture and Forests (1947-50) and
Chief Secretary (1950) in the Hollway Liberal
Government. One-time chief-of-staff of Mel-
bourne “Argus,” he served in both World
Wars.
In Perth, at 60, Old Digger and veteran
stockbroker Henry Reid, who, up to when he
retired last year, had been a member of the
Perth Stock Exchange since 1941, and a member
of the Exchange committee for six years. Was
with the 10th Light Horse.
In Auckland (N.Z.), Dr. Maud Seymour
Geddes, London Ph.D. for a thesis on industrial
psychology, and author of Girl Workers in
N.Z. Factories. Her husband was Dr. William
Geddes, who’s senior lecturer in anthropology at
Auckland University College.
In Perth, at 86, Alfred Augustine Moffat,
former Curator of Intestate Estates, and
actively associated with football in Westralia
for over 60 years. A player in the ’nineties,
he was life-member of the Perth club, its
president during the Kaiser’s war, and more
recently president of both the W.A. National
Football League and of the Australian
Football Council.


Ck , ( SAW THIS IN Town.
it’S a R£AU TH«aee/
v v
YfS5 wo uP ro
sr<\e Hep, ionite
T7XCKUNG <?N TH£ pHOUB/
% J
l MST can't look AT This'
AG- — -H& 1 3 GO(NGr 'TO
STs? (ttf b th£ .
UQtHT- UJZuL’ l


ABORIGINALITIES
r T''HE working-bee was in full swing—
-18 cubic-yards of concrete to be
mixed and poured. Three long hoses,
from tap to drum near the mixer, brought
the water, but the trouble was to regulate
the flow, the ideal being a flow that just
equalled the quantity we were using. At
smoke-oh we had got it just right; but
the tap was turned off at the break, and
“It's all right for YOU — you can DRAW!”
after “blow-up” we were right back to
taws again. A Boy Scout offered to take
over. Trial and error established the right
pressure, but when lunch-time came it
seemed that the whole rigmarole would be
on again. On resuming, however, he
regulated the flow perfectly first try.
Amazed, I asked him how he did it.
Immediately a compass came out of his
pocket: “I just took a bearing of the
handle of the tap; when it’s pointing
nor’-nor’-east it’s turned on just enough.”
That kid should go far.—“Sackfair,”
“Tom Trout”: Seeking souvenirs of
home in the south of France, I would
occasionally reach out and" crush a gum-
leaf, enjoying the crisp, clean smell of
eucalyptus ; or, seeing a “mimosa” palely
blooming, declare it to be a wattle —
despite the puzzled protests of English
friends. But the remembrancers whose
attentions I would gladly have waived, as
I suffocated with head withdrawn deep
into the sleeping-bag, were the mos-
quitoes—as big, resourceful and relent-
less as any that had my blood in Queens-
land !
“He’s not the same bird since he had an audition on TV."
“O. K. Lee”: In Queensland Govern-
ment files: A Crown Ranger of the
Lands Department had reported a grazing
property as having a carrying-capacity
much less than that ascribed to it by the
official who had previously inspected it.
On being asked for an explanation, he
replied: “If my predecessor maintains
that is six-acre country, then all I
can say is that he must have inspected it
through the upturned and wavering end
of an empty bottle.”
H* -N
“Hoppy”: With a gay air the Old Man
rang from his city home advising me of
•his find of a genuine married couple, the
male half able to milk and grow vege-
tables. The Sus left the pair near the
township pub, and it wasn’t easy to tear
them away from the Saturday mob
around the pianola. They turned out
treasures, always cheerful; the morning
scene was amazing, best-half tearing her-
self away from the stove to wave to better-
half as he moved slowly to the dairy in
his patent-leather shoes. After three
pleasant weeks I awoke to find our
invaluable ones fled, leaving all in order,
but no explanation to console. Several
couples later, seeking to buy sheep in
the north, I was on a train which made
lengthy stops when I saw a familiar figure
in uniform and patent shoes moving
along a platform. With a few minutes to
spare I was able to greet opr temporary
farm-hand who, with no lack of aplomb,
apologised for the departure, also for
telling my boss of vast experience on a
northern station. The young couple
were saving, and each year had been
taking working-holidays, a dream-farm
the object.
“5 GR”: Touching on long lifp of
war-souvenirs reminds of when the Old
Man unpacked his gear that had been
stowed away for five years. Saddlery,
except the leather, was riddled by white-
ants, full-dress uniform crumpled into
dust; so did mess-kit; but one item
remained untouched—a straw hat.
Harrow must have produced a glue-
covering modern scientists don’t know
about.
* * *
“Salmon Gums”: The old belief that
mountain-devils never drink has been
dispelled by a W.A. man who studied
moloch in captivity. The little bloke’s
skin is remarkably absorbent, and he gets
the name “thorny devil” from the fact that
Nature has put bumps and nodules all over
his body in order to give him the maxi-
mum amount of covering—even the
condensation that occurs on cold desert
nights gives him all the moisture he
requires. There’s a big chance that in the
dry interior, where he may go 12 months
or more without a shower, moloch never
wets his tongue. But this observer found
that after a light rain in summer his pets
licked the damp ground and lapped-up
water from leaves. This ability to drink
orally must come in handy sometimes
when he’s casting his skin. Young
molochs do this twice a year, adults once,
and the new skin isn’t absorbent
immediately.
He He * H=
“J.P.C.”: As lads we included among
our ambitions the possession of a good
pocketknife, and prided ourselves on our
versatility in applying same for any use
from opening a bottle to .stripping-down
a bike-dynamo. I recently lost mine, and,
having only plug-tobacco for the pipe,
asked the loan of one from the team of
lads working near by. The lengthy process
of paring the plug with my thumbnail
drove home that ambitions, like times,
have changed for modern youths, aspiring
now to wrist-watches and cigarette-
lighters.
“Sevenelms”: Having returned from
New Zealand, where Chinese herbalists
were paying £3 2s. 6d. per oz. for beef-
gallstones, 1 asked my neighbor, Ken the
slaughterman, what he knew about this
business. He told me that in Melbourne
the supply was lagging far behind
demand, and some of the shrewdheads
made some lovely ersatz stones with dyed
concrete of the right shape, hardness and
color, but the Pats jerried to them right
away and said “No cholesterin, no good.”
Which fruitless attempt to deceive the
Celestials duplicates an effort of some
years ago. Malayan rhino-horn for
medicinal purposes was fetching 20 Straits
dollars per katti (l|lb.), so some of the
Borneo hunters, having almost cleaned-
out their territory, sent a sample horn to
friends on the Congo Basin, who sent back
African rhino-horns of similar size and
shape, with the cheering information that
this small size was a drug on the market
and figuratively “tuppence a dozen.”
Gleefully a few of these ring-ins were
included in the next parcel of Borneo-
horns to the Chinese merchant, and by
the next upriver launch came the relevant
“kfra,” which read:
9—No. 1 Borneo horns at $2O per katti.
3—Boma horns (suitable for mah-jongg
tiles) at $3 per katti.
* * * He
“B. A. Ker”: Hitherto our locally-
grown spuds have always behaved like
normal murphies ; this year, however, they
seem to have developed a determination
to flaunt the fact that they are cousins of
the tomato. The result is that the arms
are covered with clusters of what could
very easily pass for young tomatoes,
Opened, the fruit shows small seeds very
similar to those in an immature tomato,
The taste, at first, is almost negative,
except for a slight acidity, but f few
moments later there comes a lingering
flavor which steadily becomes more
repugnant. Knowledgeable persons claim
that the fruit is the seed of the potato,
Whether spuds could be grown from such
seed I don’t know ; but by what cockeyed
arrangement hak Nature equipped a
species so that it reproduces at both ends?
* * * *
“Kelms”: “Old Mac” isn’t the only one
to be confused by the names given to
some of our smaller marsupials (B.
3/10/’56), but, basically, they are no
stranger than “kangaroo.” Probably the
names have a poetry of their own in
aboriginal talk. Numbat, a beautiful
little striped creature that lives largely
on termites, was given that name, or some-
thing like it, by the aborigines of the York
district of W.A., and “wai-hoo” by the
natives from King George’s Sound. 1
like numbat best, and so, obviously, did
the early settlers. Dalgite is as near as the
pioneers could get to the aboriginal “dol-
goitch,” and mundarda is almost the same
as the native “mandurda.” The honey-
mouse had at least two entirely dissimilar
aboriginal names in its habitat. Perth-
district natives called it “ice-pin” and 300
miles south it was “nool-boon-goor.” The
pioneers and early collectors settled for
noolbenger.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: In the summer Aviary-bred
budgerigars do their feeding and chatter-
ing in the cool of morning and evening,
perching in complete silence during the
hottest part of the day. So, when at mid-
day on a real scorcher I saw one of mine
on the floor of the aviary, jerking and
twisting spasmodically, I thought he was
taking a fit. Investigation disclosed that
he was writhing and wrestling with a
lettuce-leaf in his beak. Finally he
achieved his object and relaxed in obvious
content —almost completely swathed in
cool, moist lettuce.
# * * *
IN a just-concluded exhibition of land-
title documents, arranged by the
N.S.W. Registrar-General’s Department,
one could easily follow the changes —the
development from “old title” deeds to
Torrens Title. The first was a cumber-
some, but necessary, method of land-
transfer registration ; the latter as simple
as it is convenient.
On show was an extract from a grant
of 200 acres to one Isaac Nichols, of
King’s Plains, by Governor Philip
Gidley King in 1805. What old Isaac
got was to become much of the business
centre of Sydney’s suburban Chatswood.
The area is worth a cool million-pounds
and includes Chatswood station, biggest
revenue-producer on the North Shore
line.
There was a grant, top, of 60 acres of
the Waverley Estate to one Hatley, Jnr.
The accompanying documents showed
that he sold the area to William Foreman
for “an old horse, worn out.” Foreman
in turn got rid of the estate to Barnett
Levey for “a cask of wine (sour).”
A time-book used by the department
showed that the first employee to clock-
in on November 22, 1887—probably the
office-boy—got to work at 8.40 a.m. and
reached for his hat at 4 p.m. Most of the
others signed-on at times varying from
8.40 to 8.55 a.m.—but they all dropped
their pens by four-o’clock. As befitted
his office, Registrar-General Christopher
Rollestone didn’t begin toil until 9.30
a.m. But he evened matters up by
remaining behind until 4.20 p.m.—pro-
bably to see that the cat was put out.
JOCK.
SONG FOR ANGELA
/ saw a blue-eyed drover, on a shining
golden das,
Droving sheep across the saltbush, on a
piebald horse,
And he whistled as he rode, in a splendid
sort of way,
With a kelpie dog behind him, and one on
either wing.
Oh, drover, muster me a song to sing.
Oh, I can’t do that, but you shall take
my whip
With its smooth cane-handle ami its
greenhide thong
And frack it for yourself, to muster your
own song.
I saw an opal-digger, in the dry, white
west,
Digging in the heat, with a halo of dust,
And of all the lovely opals, he said that
the best
Were dark down underground, in a secret
seam.
Oh, opal-digger, dig me up a dream.
Oh, I can’t do that, but you shall take my
pick,
And its fine cold steel will dig for you,
Provided you’ve the arm to swing it true.
1 saw a sweating shearer, with a great,
white heap
Of wool at his feet like a drift of snow,
And he’d wipe his brow, as he caught
another sheep ;
With an eye to <the clock on a beam
above.
Oh, shearer, clip me off a lock of love.
Oh, I can’t do that, but here’s my comb
and cutter,
You shall take them both, and learn to
shear
A white lock of love for yourself, my
dear.
N.S.W.
ANNE BELL.


CJEEN those ads. for a “powerful dual-
wave radio-receiver, range 12,500
miles” (implying that radio-waves never
need to travel more than halfway around
the earth)?
Try tuning-in to radio-stajtion WWV
at the U.S. Naval Observatory, Washing-
ton, D.C., which broadcasts time-pips
every second, 24 hours a day. It is heard
best on frequencies of 10 and 15 mega-
cycles (30 and 20 metres). In the evening
the waves come by the shortest route,
about 9700 miles to Sydney across the
Pacific Ocean, which is then in darkness.
But in the early morning, with the whole
of the short route bathed in sunlight, the
waves come the long way around, 15,000
miles across the North Atlantic, Africa
and the southern part of the Indian
Ocean.
How do we know? Because the radio-
waves, travelling at 186,000 miles per
second, take .05sec. to come by the short
route, .08sec. by the long one. The
difference of .03sec. is easily measured
with modern electronic timekeeping
equipment in use at the National
Standards Laboratory in Sydney, the
P.M.G.’s Research Labs, in Melbourne,
and the Commonwealth Observatory in
Canberra.
Tidbinbilla.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: On a door opening out of the
kitchen in the old-fashioned station-home-
stead hung a notice: “Please do not
open these rooms till last minute, other-
wise Snow and her boyfriend will sleep
on bed.” I was still registering a double-
take when the voice of my hostess called:
“Snow! Snowflake! Where are you?”
Whereupon an enormous
white cat shot into the
kitchen, closely followed
by the decrepit tabby
tom which lived in the
washhouse.
* *
“L.E.8.”: Fear of
water-shortage still has its
hold in the outback. After
a passing-shower the
wrens were madly dis-
porting themselves in a
blocked guttering. “Hey,
Mum,” shrieked young
Bill urgently, seeing the
spray fly over the ver-
anda-edge, “they’re wast-
ing water!”
• *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An
article here mentioned
sandalwood-trees being
cut. That’s not strictly
correct.' Sandalwood is
pulled; that is, as far
as possible, it’s dragged
out of the ground by a
horse and dray, the idea
being to get as much root
as possible, since the
roots contain valuable
quantities of oil. Sandal-
wood did more for W.A.
than just bring in a few
thousand pounds —it opened up the
country. Many of the early prospectors,
and practically all the more famous
explorers, at some time or another
followed the tracks of sandalwooders.
This tree is essentially a dry-country
product, and it goes further into the desert
than almost any other tree except mulga.
So the men who went after it were nearly
always a couple of hundred miles ahead
of anyone else.
* * * *
“Brick E”: Cypress-pine must surely
be the most contradictory of all timbers.
Strength for weight it is the
weakest I know. As a youth
I used a piece of four-by-
three cypress in a scaffold,
which snapped under a load
that a three-by-two of the
much lighter Oregon would
have carried, thus teaching me
the wisdom of the scaffold-
inspectors’ edict: “On no
account may cypress be used
in scaffolding,” Yet, where
tensile strength is not im-
portant, cypress can outlast
most timbers. For one thing, it
is almost completely immune
from attack by termite or
borer; and, reasonably pro-
tected from the weather, it is
practically everlasting. The
doors of St. Peter’s, Rome,
hung for 1100 years, and were
reputed to be in excellent con-
dition when Pope Eugenius IV
replaced them with bronze. At
that, the wood was scarcely
seasoned in comparison with
some other cypress preserved
today mummy-cases 5000
years old.
* ft *
“Geep”: I was impressed
years ago, at a demonstration
of froth-flotation in Kal-
goodie, by the ease with which a froth
could be “killed.” One moment, a seeth-
ing mass of bubbles; the next, after
adding, two drops of Solution-X, not a
bubble. Wish I could remember what
X was, for it occurs to me that there’d
be a ready market for it in this season of
Westralian sideshows. Given a water-
pistolful of X, think of the fun the enter-
prising customer could have in the Bubble:
Bath booth.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The two newcomers to,
the country pub shot the wild-turkey out
bush one afternoon, plucked and dressed
it and gave it to the chef. “Have it to-
morrow,” said one. There was no turkey
listed at the next midday meal. Nor at
night. They queried the hostess. “What!
Didn’t you have any? All cleaned-up at
lunch-time. It was on the menu.” It was,
too. She showed them. There it was, in
all its simplicity: “Chicken Fricassee!”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: A party of orni-
thologists looking for the noisy scrub-bird
in thick scrub-country in s.-w. W.A.
failed in that mission but accomplished
one almost as difficult —they heard the
.call of the almost-extinct bristle-bird. It’s
good to know that this small, wrenlike
“ What's Wrong with the stew ?”
bird still exists in at least a corner of the
big State, but its days are almost certainly
numbered. It nests in green tussocks or
small shrubs, the round nest having an
opening in the side ; and' although its
cunning concealment and the bird’s
elusiveness might have been proof against
the duller carnivorous marsupials, they
won’t prevail long against the imported
fox. A specimen collected in 1945 was the
first seen for 40 years, and it hasn’t been
seen since. Its near cousin, the rufous
bristle-bird, once relatively common in
eastern Australia, has been found in W.A.
only in a very narrow coastal strip near
“Yes, dear, I'm managing QUITE well."
the Leeuwin, and probably is extinct now
even there. It hasn’t been positively
identified in the locality for over 50 years,
and although its call may have been heard
in 1940, that can’t be accepted as proof—
both the bristle-birds have a variety of
loud, clear calls and a mistake could easily
be made.
* * * *
“Archbell”: Our town’s garbage-man
told me that his firm had sold an old
chap (living out some miles) a second-
hand one-ton truck. The buyer arrived
on foot a few days later, having had a
blow-out on the way to town. Broke the
bad news thus: “Had a rotten bit of
luck ; bust me flamin’ bladder,”
* * * *
“Aqua”: A fabric in a water-fowl
design, the work of Arnhem Land
aboriginal stockman-artist Mawalan, has
been shown in London’s fashion-centres.'
It had won an Australia-wide textile-
design competition. Mawalan’s original
drawing was partly painted in natural
ochres, applied with brushes made of
stringybark and tufts of human-hair.
* * * *
“Bass”: Some of the most reliable of
the early reports on our natives —at least
in W.A. —emphasise that the abos. were
free from lice until after the advent of
the whites. But they must have been
plagued with flies. Dampier records that
during parts of the day on the Kimberley
coast it was impossible to do any work
effectively because the hands were kept
busy driving flies from the eyes, and he
said that the natives had poor eyesight,
due to their not being able to keep their
eyes more than half-open. There must
have been something in that, because he
caught some by sneaking on them.
Further south, at the Swan River,
Vlamingh testified that the flies were a
continuous torment. So that’s one plague
that Was pretty widespread.
* * * *
“Spin”: Remarkable how many are
still surprised to find that some of our
song-birds can hold their Own with the
best European whistlers. Vlamingh’s
men could have vouched for that when
in the Swan River they searched among
the reeds for the sweet-throated “nightin-
gale” which reminded them of home.
Personally, for beauty and power and gay
abandon I’ll back the Van Demonian
jackass against anything the Old World
can put up. And I doubt if Europe has
anything to equal a magpie’s carol..
Even our honeyeaters and wattle-
birds can sometimes put on a turn
that’s an astounding contrast to their
usual harsh calls. Fact is, Australian
song-birds have been largely overlooked
because our more peculiar avian types
have been publicised instead. Everybody
knows the kookaburra, the curlew and the
mopoke; very few are aware that,
Vlamingh’s “nightingale” is a little brown
bird we call the reed-warbler.
* * * *
“A.G.P.”: A country editor of my
acquaintance writes the clearest short-
hand, sets type by hand and on the
machine, solicits ads., selects the kinds
and sizes of type and runs his biweekly on
a flatbed machine almost 100 years old.
His other hobby is collecting abo.
skulls. “Had to give it up,” he told me.
The police-sergeant objected because he
would have to hold an inquest.
* * * *
lyrkME some rare birds that aviculturists
have saved from extinction (B.
5/12/’56)? Right.
Ever seen a siskin in Australia? If
any exist they are in aviaries, but the
bird that aviculturists evolved from a
species of siskin is as well-known here
as in the rest of the civilised world: the
canary.
Moreover, man improved on Nature
in the process.
“Gravelsnatcher’s” claim that any seed-
eating bird will live and thrive if
released falls apart when applied to the
canary. More canaries have been
released in Australia —albeit by mischance
—than were starlings or sparrows, yet
free-flying canaries do not exist.
It is true that budgerigars and finches
swarm in huge numbers in bush and
desert; nevertheless, only the aviculturist
can save them from ultimate, if gradual,
extinction. In my youth budgerigars,
zebra-finches, redheads and diamond-
sparrows abounded in our eastern N.S.W.
district. Now civilisation has swallowed
up bush and paddock, and the birds have
gone. But their descendants inhabit the
locality as before—in aviaries. And the
budgie and zebra population probably
exceeds the old-time total.
What’s more, from the original
primarily-green bird the aviary-bred
budgerigar has been developed into the
most diverse-colored bird in existence,
while the zebra is established in two
colors never seen in the bush: pure white
(with black eyes, therefore not an albino)
and a pretty shade not given justice by
the universal name of “fawn.”
SWELPME.
NORTH-WIND
Winter was green under mist in the water-
course,
Frost’s whip-sting —
Oh, send us a north-wind to trouble the
air
With the wild dust of spring.
Red-silted dust and gold of the pollen
Whirling as one—
Let us wake to a bird with a throatful of
summer,
To a blow from the sun.
Our blood was not made out of south-
wind and frost
For windbleak weather,
We were bom when the light was a flame
in the grass,
The sun hot on leather. >
Then forgive us who ride with the sun
in our eyes
Our wild summer ways,
Think gently of u$ as we drink the hot
honey —
We are eating our days.
S.A.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.


AMPUL
PETROLEUM LIMITED
Highlights
of Chairman’s Address
In his address to the Annual Meeting of Stock Owners, held
in Sydney, Wednesday, 19th December, 1956. The
Chairman, Mr. L. J. Thompson, reported: —
# Sales Increased to £18,500,000 being cent, above the preyious
year.
# Profits .... ...... Net Profit after provisions amounted to £779,820; an increase
over the previous year of £193,872.
9 Reserves &
Unappropriated
Profits Totalled £4,088,143 which gives more than 89 per cent, cover
for ordinary capital of £4,608,038.
0 Dividends Continued at the rate of 12| per cent, but is actually greater to
the extent that it is also payable on the Bonus issue made during
October, 1955, in the ratio of one for four from Share premium
reserve.
# Second Bonus
issue A general Meeting sanctioned a second Bonus issue payable from
Share premium reserve in the ratio of one for five. Bonus
, certificates are now being prepared for delivery.
9$ New Share Issue a new issue of Ordinary capital will be made at par in the ratio
of one new Ordinary Share for every two Ordinary Stock Units
held on the 15th February, 1957, payable 1/- on application on
or before Ist April, 1957; calls of (1/-) per Share half-yearly
commencing Ist October, 1957, and a final call of (2/-) on Ist
October, 1958. The issue is underwritten by J. B. Were & Son
free of charge.
When this issue is completed the Company’s issued capital
(including £1,000,000 Preference) will be almost £10,000,000.
# Assets The Assets of the Company and its subsidiaries total a sum
bordering on £20,000,000.
# Petrol Rationing Unless there is a marked deterioration in the international
situation, in the opinion of the Board, there is little likelihood of
petrol rationing being introduced or necessary.
# Search for Oil The total contribution made by your Company of Wapet’s
Exploration costs (amounting to £13,000,000) is £1,417,940.
The Federal Government is being asked for assistance before
discovery (rather than after discovery) by granting relief from
taxation on the total capital outlay on the search for oil in
Australia.
41 Spirit of Australia For the first time in Australia a film has been produced which
visually highlights the year’s results and marketing activities.
OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY
40,000 PROUD AUSTRALIANS
fIMPOL
R Hi
/T I2Z2iM
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
HIGH and rising wool prices
are assuming increasing
importance in Maorilands
economic scene.
Averaged out, prices so far this
season are about 10 per cent,
above last year’s level. At the
Auckland sales, early in Novem-
ber, the average price of 49.3 d.
a pound was 14 p.c. above that
realised in November, 1955. At
the Wellington sale, late in
November, the increase appeared
to be substantially more.
Prices seem to be at least on a
par with those received in 1953-
54, which, excluding the 1950-51
wool-boom year, were the best
ever recorded for woolgrOjWers.
It is plain that a continuation
of ruling prices could add a very
large sum to N.Z.’s export
income for the current year.
That is more particularly so
in view of an estimated increase
in production of 8 million
pounds, from 462 million pounds
in'- 1955-56 to 470 million
pounds in 1956-57.
Last season 462 million
pounds sold at an average 46.2 d.
a pound to realise £88.9 million.
Assuming over-all increases of
8 million pounds in volume and
10 per cent, in price, total realisa-
tion would be just on £lO million
up at £98.5 million, second only
to the 1951 figure.
Mr. Watts has stated that,
unless the increase becomes very
much greater, there does not
appear to be any need to freeze
producers’ funds. The 1951 freeze
was introduced only after con-
sultation and full agreement with
farmers’ organisations. It will
not be reintroduced without
similar consultation.
Butter Contrast
As a matter of fact, any fears
of renewed inflationary forces as
a result of a possible wool boom
are largely offset by the butter
situation, which is, to say the
least, uncertain.
The United Kingdom butter-
market is weak. The price of
N.Z. butter has recently fallen
to the lowest level since free
trading was resumed. Butter has
actually been selling at less than
cheese for the first time in his-
tory. British stocks have more
than doubled in the last 12
months, and, with vast quantities
arriving before the end of
December, the outlook for
prices is distinctly unfavorable.
Cheese prices, recently at an
all-time high, are expected to
fall as a result of greatly
increased supplies coming on
the market. A t favorable
climatic season has caused
British home production to rise
by 50 per cent.
Declining dairy prices could
easily clip £lO million off N.Z.’s
export income, so that, unless
wool prices soar, there seems no
need to fear that a suddenly
rising income may upset
economic stability.
Meantime net overseas assets
are suffering their customary
decline from the seasonal peak,
which was £lOO million at the
end of May. During October
they fell by £8.5 million to £78.7
million, their lowest since
February. They were, however,
still £3 million higher than 12
months before. It will not be
till January or February that
reserves will begin to build-up
again as receipts for exported
produce flow in.
In the 12 months to the end
of October overseas exchange
transactions recorded a surplus
of £4.6 million, against a deficit
of £24,9 million for the previous
12 months. It was the first time
in two years that the annual
figures have shown a surplus.
Export income rose by £36.9
million to £280.8 million./
N.Z.’s public accounts for the
tfx months to September 30
show that Consolidated Fund
receipts at around £67 million
were steady compared with the
corresponding period last year.
Expenditure, however, was
nearly £lO million higher at £7B
million.
The increases in expenditure
were generally in line with
amounts provided in the
estimates. A gratifying feature
was the continued increase in
small savings. The amount
received for investment from the
Post-office Savings Bank for the
half year was £ll million, com-
pared with £5 million in the same
period last year.
The Government’s £5 million
Progress Loan was oversub-
scribed by £253,370. It is hard to
understand why, as the rates of
interest offered (4f p.c. for three
years, 4£ p.c. for five years and
4| p.c, for 11 years) were
bettered by £ p.c. or more by
comparable stocks freely avail-
able in the market while the loan
was on offer. Since the loan
closed the gilt-edged market has
weakened further as the follow-
ing prices and yields for the week
to December 15 show:
Stock Price Yield p.c.
to Final
Maturity
£ s. d. £ s. d.
4| p.c. 15/6/’59 100 7 6 415 2
4£ p.c. 15/6/’6l 100 10 0 416 2
4| p.c. 15/6/’66-67 100 15 0 4 15 8
Another rise in controlled
interest-rates seems unavoidable
next year. Market pressure in
that direction is building up
strongly. A number of big local-
body loans have recently failed
to secure full public subscription,
amounts ranging from 22 to 80
p.c. being left with the under-
writers.
National Tobacco
At National Tobacco’s annual
meeting on December 13 it was
decided to hold an extraordinary
general meeting to consider fully
Rothman’s offer (B. 12/12/’56).


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
osuuJVAir
Cv PTKtfft
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yorfc
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIB STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL." BRISBANE
«-£»n
.
S 3
Q
&
T/
0
'•S33&
■
: 'Y>
■mm
-fc—
rmmuTE
...an A.N.Z.Cheque Account
much more convenienf
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her,
' accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. theque account for your daughter
or for any other member of your family?
A-N-Z
W
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 875 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World.
1 A N 2 . 94.2484'
Business, Robbery, Etc
A Year of Downs and Ups
A USTRALIAN Stock Ex-
changes have closed for
1956 after a year of keener
bargaining and more difficult
prediction of trading results and
economic trends.
Share prices, on an average,
touched bottom in June, after
a slide from August of the
previous year with only one
major rally (in April) in between.
Since June there has been a
fairly steady recovery, and
closing quotations for 1956 are
slightly stronger than those for
January of this year, and up
noticeably on those at the June
30 mark.
For the past two years the
economic pattern has* followed
generally the prediction of The
Bulletin at the beginning of
1955—a period' of economic
gear-changing, “with varying
scenery, but the trip on the
whole should be satisfactory so
long as the passengers behave
themselves during the tight
pinches.”
The passengers haven’t be-
haved themselves entirely well—
especially some politicians, who
may very aptly be described as
passengers. The reintroduction
of basic-wage quarterly adjust-
ments by Premier Cahill, of
N.S.W., was panicky and reck-
less political misbehavior, and
it has had disturbing infla-
tionary effects on the whole
Australian economy already,
as well as helping to drive
industry from his own State.
Victoria’s Liberal Premier
Bolte has scored heavily in this
regard, attracting big new over-
seas industries, and the advertise-
ment given to Melbourne by the
Olympic Games will assist that
State further.
The past year, on the whole,
has produced many shocks on
the Stock Exchange. There has
been, for instance, the slump in
Paccal, the glamor-stock, follow-
ing popular overestimation of
the Co.’s field in the petro-
chemical industry and a succes-
sion of plant troubles. Its
position is now improving.
Then there have been troubles
of another kind. Company after
company (mostly in Sydney) has
had to stand up and admit that
in the past its stocks or work-
in-progress have been over-
valued, the trouble in some cases
having its origin back in the
1951 recession.
This stock - overvaluation,
during a period of import-
restriction, makes one wonder
what the situation would be if
import-controls were relaxed
and those importers who are
buying at higher than first cost
(because of trafficking in
licences) were faced with keen
competition.
Import-restriction has created
many problems in trade arid
industry in Australia, including
the excessive loading of retail
“I’m from the flat above. Can I borrow a cup of sugar?”
prices because of the interposir
tion of an extra middle-man
who gets an extra rake-off
because he happens to have a
quota he doesn’t really want.
The sharemarket has had its
ups as well as its downs in 1956.
Takeovers and reconstructions-
to-thwart-takeovers sent prices
up ; in other cases gambling on
takeovers that didn’t come off
has been followed by heavy
sharemarket falls, especially in
the case of city retailers who are
now facing a difficult trading
period. There have been some
pleasantly surprising bonus-
issues.
In early 1957 there will be a
flush of big new issues for the
dealer in “rights.” B.H.P. is
making a one-for-five issue,
1.C.1. two for five, Goldsbrough,
Mort one for five, and Ampol
Petroleum one for two.
The present year finishes with
a number of stimulants operat-
ing in the economy. Some are
good, others bad. Better wool
prices are improving our trade-
balance, for example ; but higher
wage-rates are adding to the
inflationary spiral again.
'T-l wr i rr
*, . .. j,
A USTRALIA S wool clip for
1956-57 is now estimated at
4,529,500 bales, or 1488 million
pounds’ weight. A total of 268-
million pounds of clean wool
is expected to be available from
all world sources m the present
season.
The Minister for Primary
Production (W. McMahon) has
produced statistics in Csnbcrr3,
to show that present world con-
sumption is very close to pro-
auction, and that mill stocks are
at a low point. Wool prices m
Australia continue at firm level,
as they have been ever since the
Suez situation arose. It has been
suggested that the market was
stimulated by (among other
things) fears of devaluation of
sterling, and that since these fears
have been partly removed by the
support afforded to Britain by
the International Monetary
Fund this speculative buying
may slacken. > f
No pronounced effect from
this development has yet been
visible on wool prices. But over
the past five months the benefit
of increased revenue from wool
and other exports has been
apparent in our overseas trade
figures, which have shown a
favorable balance of £74 pillion,
compared with a deficit of £36
million in the same period of
the preceding year.
Burnie Board
A SSOCIATED Pulp and Paper
is doing well out of its hard-
board venture at Burnie. The
manufacture of hardboard from
wood-fibre was a natural sideline
to the making of pulp and paper
from Australian hardwoods, and
Associated Pulp reports that,
under the ownership of a
subsidiary, Burnie Board and
Timber Pty., the hardboard mill
“has proved a very satisfactory
investment, and its products,
which are of a high standard,
continue to fill a much-needed
community want.”
Geographically, the Burnie
board-mill is situated, in an area
where boards made by other
manufacturers are in shortest
supply. The Masonite co. is
not yet producing at Eildon
(Vic.); its output still comes
from Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.), and C.S.R. building-
materials are mostly manu-
factured in the Sydney area.
Associated Pulp is extending
its manufacturing activities
beyond Tasmania, and is erect-
ing a new hardboard-mill, to
cost £1,500,000, between pris-
bane and Ipswich (Q.). Forests
within a short distance of the
mill-site have been acquired,
The plant has been ordered and
major items are in the course of
construction.
In its manufacture of fine
printing-papers (about 50,000
tons a Y ear ) Associated Pulp
continues to do an efficient job,
though jt has a protective tariff
0 f ord y 2 p.c. ad val. British
and 5 p c foreign. This, it says,
j s j ower than that of any other
coun try i n the world,
j n ds determination to utilise
ds asse ts and opportunities to
the full, A.P.P. is proposing to
run sbeep and cattle on its
j asman i an properties that are
not afforested
The c 0 h as £7,077,848 of
ca pj ta l at work in its varied
unc jertakings. It is paying a 9
dividend.
Sydney Newspapers
r rHOUGH N the Herald and
1 Weekly Times in Mel-
bourne reports buoyant circula-
lions for the “Herald” and
“Sun,” with demand for
advertising-space continuing as
strongly as ever (it seems also to
have been able to pass-over
“Woman’s Day” to John Fairfax
and Sons and Associated
Newspapers, Ltd., Sydney, with-
out shedding a visible financial
tear), Sydney newspapers, on
the other hand, have been
having a bad trot.
In Sydney, consolidated net
profit of Associated Newspapers
(evening “Sun,” “Sun-Herald”
and other weeklies) fell by
£118,702 to £112,518 for the
year ended September 30. An
“alarming” rise in costs is
regarded as the chief reason for
the slump in profits. Since the
close of the financial year the
price of the “Sun” has been
raised from 4d. to 5d., and
advertising rates have been
lifted 12£ p.c.
Most of the ord. shares in
Associated Newspapers are now
held by John Fairfax, Ltd.,
publishers of the “Sydney Morn-
ing Herald.” The Fairfax shares
have been selling at a shilling or
so below par for some time.
Truth and Sportsman, Ltd.,
which publishes Sydney’s other
afternoon paper, the “Mirror”
(now sd. also), as well as
national “Truth,” showed a drop
of £20,721 (to £109,966) in its
profit for 1955-56. The ord. div.
has been kept at 8 p.c. Rising
costs and industrial trouble are
blamed for the slip in earnings.
The Herald and Weekly
Times, in deciding to sell
“Woman’s Day” to the Fairfax
group, was influenced by the
high degree of competition
between gravure women’s
magazines. The price received
was nevertheless “quite sub-
stantial.” with, in addition, “a
share of the profits of ‘Woman’s
Day’ under its new ownership
for a period of years.” Chairman
Giddy added, perhaps a little
pointedly: “Our interest in the
journal relates only to profits that
may be made.”
International Capital
ALTHOUGH another Inter-
national Bank loan of
$5O million to Australia is
reported to be on the way, it is
suggested in Canberra that the
bank may soon indicate concern
at the extent of demands for
capital throughout the world.
It is believed that Australia
may have led the way in
dampening-down the upsurge of
demand for development, solely
on the ground that there is in-
sufficient money available to
meet all demands and that a
nation which shows signs of
restricting the natural instinct for
expansion in the light of this
realistic fact may fare better than
one which seeks maximum funds
for projects which may be
eminently desirable but for which
capital is simply not available.
One of the factors in this
situation is the sudden concentra-
tion of developmental plans in
Asian countries, and it is sur-
mised that the bank is establish-
ing some system of priorities for
the use of its available funds.
It is pointed out <in Canberra
that the bank is competent to set
up such a system, whereas a
priority system for public works
in Australia is impracticable
because State Premiers feel it
would be political suicide for
them to agree to any move which
might mean the by-passing of
works in their individual States.


A Group of Experts to Manage
Ss II "
TSL
m
■r
YOUR ESTATE
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent Trustee Company to look
after your affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
(V ice-Chairman )
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
J. R. Faviell
C. H. Locke
Manager: IS. L. Shatv
Assistant Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary: &
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officers
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company: V
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
ALTHOUGH the ’Wales is the oldest
(and largest) of Australia’s private
trading-banks, it has not lost the initiative
and enterprise which marked its estab-
lishment nearly 140 years ago. Last term
the ’Wales entered the savings field,
Bank of N.S.W. Savings Bank, Ltd.,*"
opening for business on January 19, 1956,
with a paid capital of £1,000,000.
Occupying a position of great im-
portance in the economy the banks have,
naturally, been subject to a fair amount
of Government control over recent years
in an attempt to ease inflationary pres-
sures. Central-bank policy has been
designed to restrict bank-credit, while an
unfavorable balance-of-payments for
each of the last three years has affected
the banks’ liquidity and therefore their
capacity to extend further credit. In the
twelve months to October, ’56, the
advances made by Australian cheque-
paying banks fell by £4B million to £965
million, and although overseas funds
have benefited recently from higher wool
prices and severe import-restrictions,
bank-credit is still scarce and likely to
remain so for some time yet.
Reflecting these conditions, the latest
accounts of the ’Wales (to Sept. 30) dis-
close a fall in both deposits and advances.
However, earnings were more than main-
tained, even without the contribution from
the savings-baftk.
During the term shareholders were
offered one £2O share, at a £5 premium,
lor every three held, paid capital rising
to £17,560,000 (£8,780,000 in 1953), and
£1,097,500 coming in from premiums. The
new capital assisted in the extension of
banking facilities, the number of branches
and agencies increasing by 50 to 974, of
which all but 22 are in Australia and
N.Z. The book-value of premises jumped
from £7,000,000 to £9,000,000, largely as
a result of the purchase of the former
“Herald” building in Sydney. The
balance-sheet, however, shows a declipe
of £6,463,642 in total assets, advances
falling by £16,014,440 and deposits (in-
cluding £8,957,341 from the savings-
bank) by £12,454,563:
Trading Bank Only.
„ ' 1954 - 1955. 1956.
Paid capital £13,170,000 £13,170,000 £17.560,000
Reserves . . 10,769,240 11,277,835 . 12,779,981
Notes ..- 80,917 80,917 80,917
Deposits, etc. 456,082,876 450;879,061 444,424,498
Final div. . . 296,325 _ 296,325 395,100
£480,399,358 £481,704,138 £475,240,496
Liquids . . 131,591,143 126,909,604 134,705,912
Special a/cs.* 84,760,650 72,206,977. 72,318,717
Advances .. 257,254,345 273,918,153 257,903,713
Premises .. 6,250,000 7,000,000 9,000,000
Other assets 543,220 1,669,404 1,312,154
£480,399,358 £481,704,138 £475,240,496
* Statutory deposits with central banks,' Australia
and New Zealand.
By the end of the term the ratio of
liquids (excluding special accounts) to
deposits had improved, rising from 27.7
to 30.3 p.c. The ‘strictly controlled
advances, made mainly for short-term
needs, dropped over the year from 59.9
p.c. to 58 p.c. of deposits. Special
accounts showed little variation (funds
released in Australia being offset by an
increase in N.Z,), but represented a pro-
portionately larger share of the lower
deposits. At September 30 the savings-
bank reported deposits of £41,465,268,
advances totalling only £338,076. Under
the licence granted to the savings-bank
at least 70 p.c. of deposits must be repre-
sented by Government or semi-govern-
ment securities or deposits with the
central bank.
Interest-rates were increased half-way
through the term, but a reduction from
15s. p.c. to ss. p.c. in the rate of interest
paid on the large special accounts partly
offset the gain. In a little over eight
months the savings-bank had contributed
£37,135 to consolidated earnings, the
parent co. claiming a profit of £1,780,033
(up £86,138) for the term. The amount
written-off premises was not disclosed,
nor were the provisions for taxation,
doubtful debts, investment-fluctuations
or contingencies:
Net To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1950.. 847,790 ‘8 p.c. = •702,400 145,390 0,791,663
1951. . 954,006 8 „ „ 702,400 251,606 7,043,269
1952. . 997.769 8 „ „ 702,400 295,369 7,338,638
1953.1,117,535 81 „ „ 746,300 371,535 7,710,173
Share premiums reserve, £1,646,250 9,356,423
From inner reserves, £1,000,000 .. 10,356,423
1954.1,491,417 9 p.c. = 1,078,000 412,817 10.769,240
1955.1,093,895 9 ~.,,1,185,300 508,595 11,277,835
Consolidated Figures.
Share-premiums, £1.097,500 ... 12,375,335
1956.1,817,168 9 p.c. = 1,375,387 441,781 12,817,116
The dividend-rate, lifted from p.c. to
9 p.c. in 1954, was unaltered, total earn-
ings (£1,817,168) equalling 11.8 p.c. on
average capital, compared with 12.8, 12.4,
12.7, 11.3 and 18.8 p.c. back to 1951. For
a full term a 9 p.c. distribution on the
larger. capital would call for £1,580,400,
or £236,768 less than last term’s earnings
from both banks.
At £34 10s. the f.-p. £2O shares return
5.2 p.c. from a 9 p.c. div. ; the consoli-
dated balance-sheet showing a net tangible
backing of £34 1 Is. Id. per share.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Re-
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves, serves.t
£> £> ■ £> £ £
1951. . 678,937 209,273 167,885 301,779 4,044,924
Less taxation reserve, £10,250 .. 4,034,674
Add exchange fluctuations, £8954 .. 4,043,628
To staff fund, £539’ 4,043,059
1952.. 727,093 226,370 191,213 309,510 4,352,599
Less taxation reserve, £4OOO .. 4,348,599
Add exchange fluctuations, £7020 .. 4,355,619
To staff fund, £BO7 4,354,812
1953.. 837,004 250,704 207,396 378,904 4,733,716
Add tax reserve, £27,000 .. ... 4,760,716
Less exchange fluctuation, £45,754 .. 4,714,962
Unexplained reduction, £23,398 .. 4,691,564
1954.. 990,132 261,756 228,790 499,586 5,191,150
Add tax reserve, £3OOO .. .. 5,194,150
1955.. 1,054,518 293,698 272,360 488,460 5,682,610
To staff fund, £42,500 .. .. 5,640,110
Less tax reserve, £10,500 .. .. 5,629,610
1956. 1,191,961 318,849 309,268 563,844 6,193,454
* Expenses includes dividends to shareholders, 1951-
52, £21,600 ; 1953, £27,000 ; 1954, £36,000 ;
1955, £45,000 ; 1956, i £54,000.
t Includes special tax reserve, now £70,000.
r T' I HE A.P.A. has been doing lifb and
7- accident business throughout the
Commonwealth and New Zealand since
1912. In common with most other under-,
writers, the co. has enjoyed a great
expansion of business since the war’s end,
with the benefits going to policyholders
and shareholders both.
Last term, writing well within its con-
servative life tables and conditions, the
co. put a net £2,179,873 (up £240,299)
of new business on the books, bringing
the total of sums insured in the life
department,, after deducting reassurances,
to just on £2O million. Net premiums
(£663,725, up £50,006), and interest,
dividends, rents, etc. (£258,321, up
£28,852), brought in a total of £922,046
(up £78,858), of which claims, surrenders,
etc., took £251,999 (up £27,131) and
agency < and management expenses
£186,433 (up £20,611). The remaining
£483,614 was added to the life fund,
lifting it to £5,603,549. Not included in
this figure is the reserve for new-business
expansion (£70,000).
At the end of the year the life fund
exceeded liabilities by £152,617, of which
£122,027 was allotted to policyholders in
reversionary bonuses at last year’s
increased rates, £B5OO was transferred
to staff provident fund and £22,090
carried forward.
A slightly less stringent basis of valuing
policies in force was adopted during the
term, but the effect on the surplus was
Under the new method more
modern mortality tables were adopted,
and the interest-rate assumed in actuarial
valuations is now 3 p.c., compared with
the old rate of 2| p.c. It compares with
an improved (up Is. Bd. per cent.) net
effective rate of interest earned last year
on the statutory life fund of £4 10s. lid.
Actual mortality experience was 47 p.c.
of expectation (old tables) as against 45
p.c. the previous year and 44 p.c. in
1954. The further rises in costs were
reflected in the expense-rate, equal to
26.3 p.c. of premium income as against
25.2 p.c. the year before.
In the accident-and-general department,
in which greatest progress has been made
in the last ten years, premium income
was up £18,689 to £165,696, nearly five
times the 1947 figure. Thanks to the
rapidly growing volume of business
expenses (£68,835, up £7297) were held at
the same ratio as the preceding year.
Claims totalled £66,398, representing 42.1
p.c. of premiums after allowing for
unexpired risks, compared with 49.1 p.c.
in 1955. Before arriving at last year’s
surplus the* co. increased special accident
reserve by £B5OO (to £30,500), which is
approximately the difference between the
actual claim ratio of 42.1 p.c. and the
47.5 p.c. assumed. The average of actual
experience for the last seven years was
45 p.c., but fluctuations in claims over
recent terms have indicated the desir-
ability of providing for an average claims-
rate within the likely limits of actuality.
The underwriting surplus available for
Shareholders was £14,036, up £4807. Net
interest, dividends, etc., amounted to
another £70,076 and taxation refunds, etc.,
to £34,143, a grand total of £118,255. Of
this an additional £34,000 was appropri-
ated to the staff provident fund set-up
last year, and £54,000 distributed to
shareholders. Leaving out of considera-
tion the non-recurring earnings the 15
p.c. div. (up 2\ p.c.) was comfortably
covered by normal profits, which equalled
23 p.c. on capital.
Government securities (up £214,300)
and company shares (up £84,455) account
for most of the co.’s £7,046,881 of assets:
1953. 1954. 1955. 1956.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 2,524,120 3,336,474 3,868,159 4,142,459
Mortgages.. 477,128 390,961 348,412 415,730
Loiyis on
policies, etc. 100,013 109,006 142,321 162,839
Book debts,
cash, etc. 174,938 198,621 212,321 232,491
Equipment. 10,337 22,153 ' 8,382 8,298
Properties.. 526,006 387,028 382,696 380,510
Shares, etc. 1,545,333 1,538,703 1,620,099 1,704,554
5,357,875 5,982,946 6,582,390 7,046,881
Creditors .. 264,169 431,796 539,780 493,427
Net tangibles 5,093,716 5,551,150 6,042.610 6,553,454
Assur. fund* 4,345,699 4,797,330 5,187,238 5,669,827
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1953,
£40,878 ; 1954, £51,393 ; 1955, £58,803; 1956,
£66,278.
Net tangible assets (up £464,491)
exceeded the statutory life fund, etc., by
£883,627, which was £523,627 more than
paid capital.
During the year the co. decided to
extend the scope of its business to fire and
general insurance, something it had
previously dropped quite early in its
career. For the purpose a new subsidiary
co. called A.P.A. Fire and General Insur-
ance Co., Ltd., was set-up with a nominal
capital of £1,000,000. The co. intends
to proceed cautiously with the new
venture and a treaty agreement has been
arranged with a large tariff co. on
satisfactory terms.
The unlisted £1 shares at present fetch
425. (375. a year ago and 345. twelve
months before that) to return 7.1 p.c. on
the 15 p.c. div. basis.
Timbral, Ltd. (Sydney)
A HOST of industrial, agricultural and
mining chemicals is turned-out at
the Rhodes (Sydney) plant of Timbrol,
Ltd. Known by almost unpronounceable
polysyllabic names, they are used in the
manufacture of a wide range of products,
including such things as hormone weed-
killers, deodorants, wood-preservatives,
paints, disinfectants, plasticisers and
asphalt flooring-tiles. The modern D.D.T.
plant has a capacity in excess Of half of
Australian requirements.
Registered in 1925, Timbrol scrip was
listed on Melbourne and Sydney ’Changes
in 1941, the war-time demand for
chemicals stimulating the growth of the
co. Improving plant, production and
earnings after the war, the co. raised the
ord. div.-rate from 7 p.c. to 8 p.c. in
1951, when profits were mqre than double
those of the preceding year. A 10 p.c.
div.-rate on an enlarged capital was
established in 1954, when earnings jumped
again, this time by almost 200 p.c. In
the same year a wholly-owned subsidiary
was formed in New Zealand to facilitate
distribution of the parent’s products.
Bonus-issues in 1950 and 1951 (one-
for-four), adding £101,027 to paid capital,
were followed in 1952 by a one-for-two
par issue of 215,053 £1 ords. Paid
capital at June 30 last was £960,313, of
which £lOO,OOO carries a fixed 5£ p.c.
div.
Turnover for the term completed June
30 reached an (undisclosed) record figure,
despite an abnormally wet season which
affected the sale of agricultural chemicals
and an “unexpected delay” in the develop-
ment of the creosote market. But because
of higher costs and keen competition,
earnings fell by £41,815 to £117,503 after
providing £134,609 (up £2107) for
depreciation of parent assets and an
unstated amount for taxation:
Parent Co.
r- 1 Dividends To Re- Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. t Old. serves, serves.*
SO, 54 p.c.
’52.. 65,146 5500 8 p.c. = 40,174 19,472 200,223
Assets revalued, £80,374 .. .. 280,597
’53.. 62,663 5500 8 p.c. = 55,211 1,952 282,549
Parent and Subsidiary.
Profit sale land, £41,279 .. .. 323,828
•54..184,186 5500 10 p.c. = 86,031 92,655 416,483
’55..159,318 5500 10 „ ~ 86,032 67,786 484,269
’56..117,503 5500 10 „ „ 80,031 25,972 510,241
* Subject to intangibles, £30,526, 30/6/’56.
Dividends, including the unchanged 10
p.c. ord. div., took 77.8 p.c. of the earn-
ings, which, after covering the pref. div.,
equalled 13 p.c. on ord. capital, following
17.8 p.c. and 20.7 p.c. in the two preceding
years.
By the end of the term stocks had
been reduced by £55,655, and, although
working capital was down slightly (to
£750,715), the shareholders’ equity in the
co. had improved:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord 860,313 860,313 860,313
Reserves .. .. 416,483 484,269 510,241
I-oan .. . . 478,000 456,000 434,000
Overdraft .. 160,273 91,579
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . . . 315,494 282,292 308,778
Final divs. .. 88,781 45,766 45,766
£2,259,071 £2,388,913 £2,350,677
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 1,096,922 1,109,641 1,123,013
Stock . . . . 690,733 883,388 827,733
Debtors, etc. .. 312,066 364,490 368,537
Cash, bonds ~ 128,524 568 568
Intangibles .. 30,826 30,826 30,826
£2,259,071 £2,388,913 £2,350,677
Outside liabilities were reduced, the over-
draft falling by £68,694 and the secured
loan (from the A.M.P.) by £22,000.
During the year a proposal for amalga-
mation with “another co.” was rejected
by the directors.
In the current term the demand for
many Timbrol products has increased,
and with a better season expected, greater
sales of agricultural chemicals should be
possible.
Net tangible assets provide a cover of
31s. 2d. for each f,-p. £.l ord., and at
395. 3d. there would be a return of 5.1
p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
Beale and Co., Ltd.
A/TUSICAL instruments escaped the
increases in sales-tax that fell on
other “non-essentials” earlier in the year,
which helps to explain why the number
of pianos turned out by Beale and Co.
in the 1956 term was the biggest since
1929.
Unavoidably, production will be lower
this year, for though the demand con-
tinues, import-licensing will limit the
number of pianos that can be made.
To offset this loss the co. has


THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O'SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—
SYDNEY W. C. Fenfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE Norman Bros. Pis'. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . Vardon Price Ltd. 1
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Anst.)
Now you can FORGET your
iSWISi
Thanks to
NEO-
JFSARItERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARR ERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3c), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In, Divorce. ,n
TO JESSIE MARY SYKES late of Scone.
—TAKE NOTICE that SIDNEY EMDEN
KITCHENER SYKES has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4391 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist March 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from PIKE
& PIKE, Solicitors, 141 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN SHIELDS late of Bulli or
Thirroul.—TAKE NOTICE that CHARLES
FREDERICK SMITH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3333 of 1950 against his
wife DOROTHY IRENE SMITH on the
ground «that you have been guilty of
adultery with her If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist day of March
1957 and obtain a copy, of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS,
MADDOCKS COHEN & MAGUIRE, Soli-
citors, 38 Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EVDOKIA ACHILLEOS late of Glebe,
—TAKE NOTICE that MICHAEL
ACHILLEOS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No, 4429 of 1956 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Ist day of March
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAM
Registrar. ,
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ANNIE MARY MATILDA GRIFFITHS
late of East Brunswick in the State of Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that REGINALD
JOHN GRIFFITHS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4428 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Ist
day of March 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. MADDOCKS COHEN &
MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38 Martin Place,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN. RegMrnr.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Mirks. —Anvs.
Missing Friend
TO ALEXANDER JAMES TAYLOR for-
merly of Upper Fern Tree Gully but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife NORMA MAY TAYLOR has in-
stituted proceedings against you for
Divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office at the Supreme Court of Victoria
at Melbourne on or before the Ist day of
February 1957 and file an answer in the
said office on or before the 11th day of
February 1957 the case may proceed your
absence notwithstanding and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —JONES &
KENNEDY, Solicitors, 213 Nicholson
Strop*V Fno 4 's r r^ v , Victoria.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting: Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
COMMUNIST
INFILTRATION OF
CATHOLIC CHURCH
An American Bishop, the
Most Reverend Cuthbert
O’Gara has revealed that
Communism has penetrated
the Church in America. He
sees corroding elements in
Catholic classrooms and lecture
halls and EVEN IN
CATHOLIC* PAPERS AND
PERIODICALS!
Bishop O’Gara’s electrify-
ing . speech, suppressed in
most parts of the world, now
available in the current League
of Rights Intelligence Survey,
a monthly digest of the facts
behind the news, £2 2s. a year.
Order from:
THE VICTORIAN
LEAGUE OF RIGHTS
Bok 1052 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Ratabliahed 1878.
Head Offices 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN 0. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
fcSTKUAN ROBERTSON. NORMAN FRAZER. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N* E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in ail States Agencies in all Country Centres
A* P • A.
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION LIMITED
Incorporated in New South Wales, 1912
Highlights from the Chairman’s Address to Shareholders
Mr. Leslie J. Thompson, in his address to Shareholders at the Annual Meeting,
reviewed the Company’s operations for the year and its progress over the past decade.
The following highlights are taken from his address, viz:
NEW BUSINESS
The volume of new business written during
the i year (less reassurances) amounted to
£2,179,873, and compares with £1,939,574 for
1955.
The total of the sums assured (including bonus
additions) as at 30th September last, after
deducting reassurances ceded to other offices,
is now just on £20,000,000.
INTEREST YIELD
The net effective rate of interest (i.e. after
deducting income tax) earned on the assur-
ance funds, including reserves, was £4/10/11
per cent., as compared with £4/9/3 per cent,
for the previous year.
LIFE DEPARTMENT—SURPLUS
The surplus earned by the Life Department
was £152,617 including £lO,OBB brought for-
ward and non-recurring income (principally
income tax refunds, etc.) £14,951, and has been
appropriated in the following manner:—
Allotment of bonuses to Policy-
holders, at the same increased
rates as in the previous year .. £122,027
Transfer to Profit and Loss
Account for provision for Staff
Provident Fund 8,500
Balance to be carried forward .. 22,090
£152,617
ACCIDENT DEPARTMENT
The premium income in the Accident
Department was another record aP £165,696
compared with £147,007. This department has
made great strides over the past 10 years by
progressive increases from £34,739 in 1947 to
£165,696 in 1956.
Before transferring the Accident Department' 1 '
surplus fo Profit and Loss Account the Board
raised the special Accident Reserve to £30,500
• —an increase o| £8,500.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
The General Fund profits of the year consist
of:—
Net interest, rent and
dividends £70,076
Profit transferred from
Accident Account .. 14,036 84,112
Profit transferred from
Life Revenue Account
(for staff Provident
Fund Provision) .. 8,500
Other income being In-
come Tax Refunds
and Income Tax over-
provided in earlier
years 34,143
£126,755
The Board has appropriated a sum of £42,500
for a staff Provident Fund to supplement the
present staff Superannuation Fund.
Regarding the balance of the profits of the
year, the Board recommends that the dividend
for the year be raised to 15%.
This is more than justified, because the normal
General Fund profits of £84,112 are equal to
an earning rate on Capital of 23.36%.
The carry forward of profits to next year will
thus be £83,009 which is equal to 23% on
capital.
ASSETS
The Association’s assets now total £7,046,881
of which 58.8% is represented by Government
and Semi-Government Securities.
NEW SUBSIDIARY COMPANY
During the year the Board decided to expand
the scope of the Association’s business to
include fire and general insurance business,
but to do so by means of a separate Company
which was registered on 27th June, 1956,
named “A.P.A. Fire and General Insurance
Company Limited,” with an authorised capital
of £1,000,000.
In conclusion I submit the following import-
ant figures which highlight the Association’s
progress over the last ten years.
DECADE OF
Assets
Reserves and Life
Assurance Funds
Sums Assured in Force
(Life)
Total Income
PROGRESS
1946 1956
£3,228,000 £7,047,000
2,702,000 6,134,000
9,720,000 19,306,000
475,000 1,192,000
branched out into the manu-
facture of cabinets for “one of
the larger distributors” of tele-
vision-receivers. The demand
for sewing-machine cabinets is
also holding well. Because of the
slackness in the furniture trade,
however, the veneer-making
section has been seriously
affected.
On the year, trading profit
from the various activities
showed a small gain, but after
setting aside £18,650 (up £3550)
for taxation, net earnings were
written £428 . lighter at
£32,908: ’
Re-
June Profit. , Dividend serves.
30, £ £ £
To staff fund, £2OOO . . 53,701
1951.. 31,770 124 p.c. = 14,409 71,002
Profit sale assets, £lO,OOO . . 81,002
To staff fund, £lOOO . . 80.002
1952.. 23.814 10 p.c. = 11,575. 92,241
To staff fund, £lOOO .. 91,241
1953.. 22.500 10 p.c. = 11,5.75 102,166
Tax overprovided, £3939 . . 106,105
To staff fund, £4OOO . . 102,105
1954.. 24.051 15 p.c. = 17,363 108,793
Assets revalued, £58,871 .. 109,789
Reserves capitalised, £57,875 109,789
To staff fund. £4OOO .. 105,789
1955.. 33.336 10 p.c. = 17,363 121,762
To staff' fund, £2,000 . . 119,762
1956.. 32.908 10 p.c. = 17,303 135,307
On capital raised to £173,625
by a one-for-two bonus-issue a
couple of terms ago, the £32,908
was just under 19 p.c., as against
19.2 p.c. in 1955. Shareholders'
10 p.c. (equal to 15 p.c. before
the gift) thus looks pretty secure.
Still, as its history shows, the
co.’s position is fairly vulner-
able. With the beginning of the
depression in 1930 the piano
trade virtually collapsed, and, in
1934, to dispose of accumulated
losses it was decided to reduce
by half the ordinary capital of
£210,000. Later, in 1944, in a
further attempt to get the co.
on its feet another £89,250 (equal
to Bs. 6d. a share) was written
off and, at the same time, the
prefs. were converted into
ordinary shares. In the country’s
post-war prosperity Beale has
been' able to make good its
recovery, though' most of the
jettisoned capital remains lost.
Following the establishment of
new overseas contacts last year,
worth-while economies are being
made in the purchase of certain
raw materials, and new
machinery has enabled the co. to
adopt more modern methods in
some departments. When import-
restrictions become easier it is
planned to instal additional
machines.
Outlay on buildings (£34,240)
was mainly connected with
extensions to the lacquer depart-
ment completed towards the end
of the year. The benefits from
this expenditure will be reflected
in this year’s accounts:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital. £115,750 £173,625.£173,625
Reserves . . 112,143 121,762 135,307
Overdraft .. 7,547 22,876
Creditors . . 36,721 40,836 48,414
Tax provision 15,000 33,450 35,080
Staff fund.. 4,000 4,000 2,000
Final divs... 11,575 8,682 8,682
£295,189 £389,902 £425,984
Freehold . . 41,129 100,000 134,240
Plant, etc.. . 42,397 42,248 40,424
Shares .. 17,876 18,376 20,876
Stocks . . 133,145 156,970 163,146
Debtors, etc. 36,264 54,048 67,038
Cash, etc. . . 24,378 ' 18,260 260
£295,189 £389,902 £425,984
To finance these additions and
carry extra stocks (up £6176) and
debtors (up £12,990), the co.
used its holding of bonds and
debentures, added £15,329 to its
overdraft and owed another
£7578 to trade creditors. When
the books closed there was only
4s. 7d. of borrowed money
(overdraft and creditors) in the
business for every £ of share-
holders’ funds, and more-or-less
liquid assets exceeded all
liabilities by almost two to one,
so finances are soundly based.
Mjndful of the past, however,
the sharemarket at present pays
no more for the scrip than 235.
(265. 6d. a year ago), to yield
8.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible asset cover is
355. 7d. a share.
Grimley, Ltd.
(CONSISTENTLY good results
have been turned in by
Sydney - registeied motor-
accessory and saddlery merchant
Grimley, Ltd., over the last
decade. In its 36 years the co.
has never made a loss, and only
on a few occasions has it failed
to pay an ordinary dividend.
Since 1946 the distribution to
ord. shareholders has averaged
14.9 p.c. out of profits that
represented (after pref. divs.)
29.4 p.c. on the mean ordinary
capital employed. Extra benefits
in the first half of the post-war
decade were in the shape of gift-
scrip issued to ord.-shareholders
on a one-for-six basis, in 1948,
and op a two-for-nine basis, ip
1950. Cash issues, partly ip the
pature of a boous, too, because
of the high market premium op
the scrip, have added apother
£77,888 to ord. capital. The
latest issue was made early this
term when ord. and pref. share-
holders took up 37,967 £1 ords.
at a 50 p.c. premium, one for
five.
The present co. was registered
in 1920, with the object of
acquiring all the capital of
another concern of the same
name then operating in Clarence-
street, Sydney, and Butler Bros.
(Aust.), \ Ltd., Brisbane, both
established last century and
both well-known m the harness,
saddlery and carriage-hardware
trade.
The earnings of the Queens-
land offshoot are not disclosed,
except to the extent of dividends
paid to the parent, but the co.
appears to have substantial
reserves of its own. Most of
last year’s profit seems to have
been passed on :
Parent Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, , —Dividends—, serves, serves.
Pref. Ord.
73 p.c. 15 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Share premiums capitalised,
£20,000 134,583
Share premium's, £15,228 .. 149,811
1951.. 46.507 4500 17,633 24,374 174,185
To assets realisat’n res., £4OOO 178,185
1952.-45,024 4501 19,474 21,049 199,234
■1953..37,059 4500 19,474 13,085 212,319
1954.. 4501 19,474 14,814 227,133
1955.. 207 4500 19,475 13,232 240,365
To assets realisation res., £341 240,706
1956.. 4500 19,475 15,398 256,104
Including a £22,500 dividend
from the subsidiary and after
providing £4138 (£3786 in 1955)
for depreciation and £lO,BOO
(£7500) for taxation net profit in
1956 was struck at £39,373, up
£2166 on the previous year, and,
after paying p.c. on the prefs.;
equal to 26.9 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 25.2 p.c., 26.4, 25.1,
31.2 and 35.7 p.c. back to 1951.
For the ninth successive year the
div. was 15 p.c.
The current term has opened
up satisfactorily, Operations in
Queensland are expected to feel
the benefit of the recently-
completed programme of exten-
sions and improvements to the
Brisbane warehouse, and a
further expansion of activities is
planned for N.S.W., to be
financed out of the newly raised
capital.
Only the parent co.’s finances
are shown in this balance-sheet
comparison:
Parent 00.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. . . £60,007 £60,007 £60,007
Ord. . . 129,829 129,829 129,829
Reserves . . 227,133 240,365 256,104
Overdraft . . 42,244 76,107 70,940
Creditors, etc. 66,710 63,561 65,715
Final divs.. . 15,233 15,233 15,233
£541,156 £585,102 £597,828
Freeholds . . 55,267 55,267 55,267
Plant, etc.. . 15,820 21,072 23,305
Shares other cos. 27 27 2/
Shares subsid. 90,000 90,000 110,000
Due by subsid. 48,149 52,961 44,387
Stock, etc.. . 207,783 217,982 230,391
Debtors .. 123,838 147,488 134,146
Cash . . #72 305 305
£541,156 £585,102 £597,828
Chief movements were a rise in
stocks, etc. (up £12,409), and a
fall of £13,342 in debtors.
Another 20,000 £1 ords. were
taken up in Butler Bros.
Grimlfey’s investment in the co.
is shown at par, an extremely
conservative basis of valuation.
A combined balance-sheeL for
parent and subsidiary shows
reserves of £429,816—£173,712
above the figure for the Grimley
alone. Inner reserves also seem
to be considerable. During the
year the Brisbane and Fortitude
Valley freeholds of the Queens-
land co. were valued for mort-
gage purposes at well over the
book-value of all the freeholds of
both cos.
Favorably regarded on
’Change, the old f.-p. £1 shares
fetch 48s. for a satisfactory yield
of 6.2 p.c. on the basis of a
15 p.c. div. Net tangible asset
support (parent and subsidiary)
is 655. 3d. a share. At 245. the
prefs., cover £lO 19s. 3d., return
6.2 p.c.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
The illuminated-trees in the park and
at the entrance to the Harbor Bridge are
a feature of Sydney Christmas again this
year, and Christmas-trees in private homes
are becoming more and more ambitious
as colored electric-lights become avail-
able. The Christmassy atmosphere was
certainly created at the party of the
Royal Empire Society, where two
decorated trees sparkled, and where
carols rang out continuously. The Garnet
Hallorans were hosts to lots of people,
including High Commissioners, Trade
Commissioners, Information Officers,
Service heads, etc.* The party was held
on three levels of the R.E. building and
went along at a lively pace.
ft ft ft
The J. C. Williamson Christmas-party
mustered as usual a rather exotic gather-
ing of folk theatrical and literary, the
former with profiles and deep rich voices,
the latter in assorted shapes and sizes.
Host Harald Bowden did the honors,
and one of .the topics of conversation was
how the parson who christened him knew
it was Har aid and not Har old (this is real
cocktail-conversation).
Lettie Craydon (remember her in
“Simon and Laura,” “Blithe Spirit,”
“Arsenic and Old Lace”?) held a little
court of admirers. She is to appear in
“Janus” next week with Jessie Matthews,
who was also at the party in a red hat
with dingle-dangles.
Helen Roberts, of the Gilsullivan com-
pany, dominated the scene in a pepper-
mint-pink dress of dacron which she
made herself, and a super hat with roses.
Noel Ferrier was celebrating his 26th
birthday and had been given a tiny fob
like a leather carriage by Dulcie Gras
(“Tea and Sympathy”).
Eric and Win Wahlquist, just back from
three months in New Zealand with their
two-year-old Robin, were also at the
party and had some interesting comments
to make on N.Z. Win said that the low
cost of living there astounded her. Butter
was 2s. a pound, eggs 3s. 9d. a dozen,
milk (half cream) a pint, filet steak
3s. 6d. to 4s. a pound. (Let’s all go to
New Zealand!) In some ways, she said,
New Zealanders are ahead of us in
fashion, though not generally so fashion-
conscious. They have a color for
accessories over there called “coffee-frost”
which she hasn’t seen here and which is
most attractive. Her favorite town was
Dunedin, not because she has the Scottish
blood, but because “the weather was so
lovely there.” That should surprise the
New Zealanders.
ft ft ft
Ernest Llewellyn, the Symphony
Orchestra’s concertmaster, came home
during the week after 11 months touring
Europe and America “observing and
absorbing music.” At the party which
the Orchestral committee gave the
Llewellyns he said that the vitality of
music in America was amazing.
“Imagine,” he said, “going from an
orchestral concert on to a chamber-music
concert and then home with friends to
play for another two hours!” This was
what New York musicians would do and
was a gauge of their enthusiasm. Mrs.
Llewellyn (who was Ruth Smith, daughter
of A. E. Smith, the well-known violin-
maker) said that she was not a musician,
but had found the trip a wonderful
experience. She particularly commented
on the opportunities to shop that there
were in New York. Apparently you can
buy yourself a hat there in the middle
of the night if you want to.
☆ ft ft ■
It was at the Christmas-party of the
Aisling that the most unusual Christmas-
cake was seen. The Aisling is a society
for those interested in Irish cultural
matters, so Miss Mary Hegerty, the
society’s charming secretary, traced a
Celtic design from an ancient Irish
looking-glass and had it transferred to
the cake. Solicitor James Meagher, who
is president, was chief welcomer to the
guests, who gathered in the Ulster Room
of the I.N.A.’s new building and heard
Mary. Blake, Nora Hill and Michael
Sheahen sing traditional Irish songs, saw
14-year-old Helen Conway, prizewinner
at the Sydney Eisteddfod, perform the
intricate Irish national dances, and joined
in the singing of every type of Irish
song.
Mrs. Lucille Rath is a well-known
personality in Sydney's cultural circles.
Before coming to Australia six years ago
she was noted both for her singing (she
toured Europe in opera) and for her work
in films with the Gainsborough com-
pany, as well as for the work she did
with the American Red Cross in England.
Since coming to Australia she has been
active in the formation.and development
of the Cammeray Music Group (one of
the liveliest suburban groups in Sydney)
and is much in demand as an organiser
of international concerts and pageants.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Some parents, while anxious to keep
up a belief in Santa Claus, have found
it necessary to tell the small fry that
Santa has only a limited amount of toys
and has to buy extra ones, so that
parents have to* pay for some of them.
Otherwise they felt they could not cope
with the demands of the youngsters, One
parent put out a bottle of pop for Santa
last year, which was, of course, found to
be empty next morning. This year the
children pointed out that Santa didn’t need,
a glass. “He drank it out of the bottle
last year.”
The name of Santa Claus and Father
Christmas seem to be used indis-
criminately by parents, shops and
children, but they are not ready the
same. Father Christmas is an English
person, portly and jolly and interested
in the feasting part of Christmas. Santa
is, of course, St. Nicholas, and came to
us from Holland, via America and
England. He is more the gift-giving
personality, and it is interesting to note
that, among other things, he is the patron
saint of small boys, retail-stores and
pawnbrokers.
ft ft ft
“Alice in Wonderland,” as presented
at the Phillip-street Theatre, is the
essence of grace and humor —indeed the
essence of Lewis Carroll. Kathleen
Gorham acts and sings without affecta-
tion, and, of course, dances beautifully.
There are so many excellent comic parts
it is hard to single out any particular
ones, but the Cheshire Cat of John
Parker and his Simple Simon type of
Carpenter in duet with the Walrus are
especially appealing. “How did the
Walrus and the Carpenter get in with
‘Alice in Wonderland’?” you ask?
Well, how did anything get into Wonder-
land?
ft ft ft
Two interesting visitors who have been
in Australia for five weeks, and who left
during the week, are the Peter Scotts,
known to many travelling Australians
who have visited their Severn Wildfowl
Trust in England. Mr. Scott, who is the
son of Scott of the Antarctic, was chair-
man of the International Jury for
Yachting at the Olympic Games. He
and Mrs. Scott have been the guests of
Sir Edward Hallstrom while in Sydney.
With their cameraman, Charles Lagus,
they have been looking at Australian
birds, and* hope to import some varieties
to the Severn Trust.
V V V
The John D. K. Roches gave their first
Christmas-party during the week, when
the engagement of their daughter Jennifer
was also celebrated., Jennifer’s fiance is
Tom Reynolds, of Gladeswood Gardens.
The Roches’ second party will be given on
New Year’s morning.
MELBOURNE
Two huge Christmas-trees glittering
with lights, spun-glass balls and tinsel
were the dominant decorations at the
happy informal party given by the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress in the Lower
Town Hall. In the reception-room, where
supper was served, were bowls of
hydrangea, gladioli and peony-roses.
The 400 guests had an opportunity of
viewing the new portrait of Queen
Elizabeth, a copy of the one Italian artist
Annigoni painted for the Worshipful
Company of' Fishmongers, and the one
of the Duke of Edinburgh by Dargie.
Lady Selleck wore a gown of turquoise-
blue satin-brocade, full-skirted, the
bodice silver-embroidered and with straps
of rhinestones. Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson
assisted her parents with the hostessing,
wearing a short frock of champagne-
tinted guipure-lace.
Guests included Air-Marshal Sir John
McCauley and Lady McCauley ; Chief-
Secretary A. Rylah and Mrs. Rylah;
Legislative Assembly Speaker McDonald
and Mrs. McDonald ; Consul for France
M. Le Bas de Plumetot and his wife ;
Austrian Consul F. L. Berger and Mrs.
Berger; Consul for the Netherlands
G. J. A. Veling ; Mr. and Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, and Mr, and Mrs. W. K. Burn-
side ; Cr. Sir Harold Gengoult Smith, his
wife and daughter Marion (the latter’s
ballerina-frock of watermelon-pink silk-
organza) ; Cr. and Mrs. Fred Hardy and
daughter Sue (whose choice was a strap-
less bouffant frock of white Swiss-
embroidered organza); Mrs. Lou Sallman
(in old-gold satin-brocade) ; Margot
Evans (attractive in a short white
organdie frock) ; Cr. and Mrs. Robert
Solly and their daughters Eileen and
Noel ; and Mrs. Norman Bennett (her
short, Princess-line frock of amethyst
satin worn with matching satin shoes).
Su Israel is a trained nurse by profes-
sion, but a natural acting ability has
brought her many leading roles in Little
Theatre productions. In the Christmas
show “As Long As They’re Happy” she
plays the role of the existentialist wife,
complete with matador-pants and pony-
tail hair-do, whose younger sister gets a
“crush” on a visiting crooner-celebrity.
Earlier this year Su played Sabrina in
“Sabrina Fair.” Athol Shmith photo.
The emphasis was on youth for the
happy and informal dance given by the
Governor and Lady Brooks, and many of
the guests were from the visiting warships.
Lady Brooks wore a diamond tiara with
her gown of billowing white tulle and
lace, which was re-embroidered in opales-
cent and silver beads.
Sally Manifold looked charming in a
bouffant strapless gown of white tulle
highlighted with a crimson satin sash.
Elizabeth Mildred wore a white faille
gown which had a jewel-embroidered
fitted-bodice; her twin-sister Patricia
chose mist-blue tulle with a matching
satin sash that looped at the back and
fell into the hem of the skirt. Mary
Parker’s crinoline-gown was of blush-
pink nylon-tulle and featured matching
satin-bands down the skirt. Tasmanian
Marsha Turnbull’s beautiful gown of
white chiffon was finely shirred, the wide
skirt scattered with rhinestones.
June Dalrymple’s frock of dove-grey
taffeta had the Empire-bodice emphasised
with gunmetal lace, which was repeated
on the skirt. Mrs. Derek Beaurepaire’s
mist-blue satin gown was very full, the
bodice cut wide to the shoulders. Mrs.
John Buckland wore pastel-pink lace
mounted on satin. Mrs. R. Spraggett’s
white laces had a waterfall of white
chiffon at the back. Mrs. E. J. Murphy,
from Los Angeles, wore white-and-gold
lace. Mrs. W. Littlejohn’s choice was a
gown of plum-toned satin.
ft * ft
St. Augustine’s Church of England was
the setting for the marriage of Wendy,
eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. H.
Reuss, of Shepparton, and James Carvel
McColl. The bride’s classical gown of
ivory satin-brocade had a straight-cut
neckline, long sleeves and a graceful skirt
slightly trained at the back. Her elbow-
length double-tulle veil was caught with a
circlet Of white flowers, and she carried
a white Prayer Book and gardenias. The
bride’s sister Robin and the bridegroom's
sister Janice and Claire Mackie were
bridesmaids, each in a short, full-skirted
frock of white nylon highlighted with a
Ming-blue satin sash which finished in a
large bustle-bow. They wore Ming-blue
satin shoes and carried small bouquets
of white hyacinths. The bridegroom, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. N. J. McColl, of
Strathmore, had Stewart Margetts as best
man. Reception was held by the bride's
parents at Grosvenor, Shepparton.
ft ft ft
The Lord Mayor’s Holiday Camp for
Country Children at Portsea was officially
opened by Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck ;
first children to use the camp came from
Mildura, Horsham, Shepparton, Orbost
and Mario. Great improvements have
been made to the camp since it first
opened. The large voluntary staff in-
cludes doctors and dentists, and the small
hospital and dental-clinic are the last
word in modernity. New addition to the
children’s playground is a large Wirraway
aeroplane, and the joy of just sitting in
the cockpit is unbounded. On the open-
ing day Lady Selleck accompanied her
husband, and with Cr. Maurice Nathan
was Mrs. Nathan. Chief Railways Com-
missioner Brownbill was accompanied by
Mrs. Brownbill. Others in attendance
were Town Clerk Rogan and Mrs. Rogan,
the A. E. Doyles, Mr. and Mrs. Ken
Guest, Mrs. Constance Day, Mrs. John
Newton, Mr. George Winwood, and the
Matron of the Margaret Coles House,
Miss Alice Adcock. -
ft ft ☆
Of interest to the Western District and
the Young Liberal and Country Party
Movement is the engagement of Leah
Brigid O’Toole and Philip Lynch. The
son of Mr. and Mrs. R. T. Lynch, Kew,
Philip is Victorian president of the Young
Liberals. Leah, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. O’Toole, of Glencullen,
lllowa, is also an active member of the
same organisation. Philip is an Old
Xavierian and an Arts and Education
graduate of Melbourne University ; Leah
is doing occupational therapy.
ft ft ft
Invitations have been issued by Mons.
and Madame Joseph Szwieca and Mr.
and Mrs. Maurice Ress to celebrate the
marriage of their daughter and son,
Suzanne and Leon, to take place at the
St. Kilda Synagogue on January 6, with
a reception afterwards at the Oriental
Hotel. Suzanne and her brother arrived
from Paris about 18 months ago ; their
parents and three sisters will be here from
France in time for the wedding,
ft ft ft
Guest-of-honor at the luncheon-party
given by Mrs. A. T. Smithers at Chevron
was the Premier’s wife, Mrs. Henry Bolte.
The hostess wore a grey pure-silk foulard
frock and small pink petal-hat. Other
guests at the luncheon were Mrs. A.
Rylah, Mrs. John Casson, Mrs. L. J.
Dooling, Mrs. Alan Bernaldo and Mrs.
Bill Jones.
☆ ft ft N
Jill Palmer’s 21st-birthday party at No.
9 Darling-street was a very happy and
informal affair. Receiving the guests with
her mother; Mrs. Dudley Macdougall, her
brother lan Palmer and step-sister Marcia
Macdougall, Jill wore a short bouffant
frock of white silk-pique interwoven with
gold-thread, and with gold embroideries
on the strapless bodice and hipline of the
skirt. Mrs. Macdougall’s choice was a
short sheath-frock of brown-shot faille
embroidered with rhinestones and
crystals. Among the guests were Mrs.
Graham Monk, whose short frock was of
garnet-red satin ; Sue Millear, in white
tulle skirt and a strapless satin bodice;
Lorelle Herman, her pretty frock of white
patterned in pink roses ; Sally tlawkes,
whose pastel-pink nylon frock had the
apron-front skirt draped to the back and
cut away to reveal rows of pink tulle;
Helen Hadley, her choice a white
polished-cotton patterned in brown and
green leaves ; and fylrs. Peter Tremayne,
who wore palest-grey silk-organza etched
in a faint black design, and with narrow
ruffles of grey lace outlining the strapless
bodice.


T. & G. Mutual Life Society
RECOR D PROGRESS
Assurances in Force Exceed £354,000,000
At the 80th Annual Meeting held on Wednesday, 19th December,
at the Society’s Head Office, the Chairman, Mr. H. G. Brain, said: —
“Before presenting tne Directors’ Report
and Accounts I wish to refer with deep
regret to the death, on 15th May last, of
Mr. A. R. Stewart, Chairman of the Board
of Directors. He joined the Board in 1922
shortly after the death of his father who
had been appointed during the Society’s
first year of operations. As Directors for
nearly 80 years father and son gave wise
and friendly counsel which contributed sub-
stantially to the progress of the Society.
I had the honour to be elected Chairman
of Directors and Mr. H. W. Buckley was
elected Deputy Chairman.
During the year the Board appointed
Messrs. J. R. Burt and H. D. Stewart as
Directors to fill vacancies. Their high
standing and wide experience will
materially assist the Board. You will
share our pleasure that Mr. Stewart con-
tinues the distinguished line of Directors
from a family identified With the Society
throughout its existence.
New Business
I am pleased to report that the Society
has continued to serve its policyholders
and the public in a manner that must give
general gratification. The Society confines
its operations to Australia and New
Zealand and the New Business completed
was again a record in its history. In the
Life Departments 102,050 policies were
issued assuring 47f million pounds, an in-
crease of 2 million pounds on the previous
j ear’s total. The increase was due sub-
stantially to the business completed under
Superannuation and Group Assurances
Schemes. Many existing schemes entrusted
to the Society w’ere revised and extended
for the better protection of the employees
concerned and many new schemes were
placed with it. Our experience in this
field is such that employers welcome the
expert advice freely available.
Assurance Funds
The Statements of Account for the year
have been presented in a form wffiich your
Directors believe will demonstrate more
clearly the nature of our Society’s opera
tions. Life Assurance contracts are mainly
long-term and the ultimate payment of
benefit may not occur for many years.
During the intervening period the Society
must build up funds to meet the eventual
liability and must invest them to ensure
the security of the policy benefits. Funds
now’ amount to 111 million pounds in the
Life Departments and £339,000 in the Acci-
dent Department.
The principles adopted by the Board in
the investment of these funds may be
stated quite simply as security of capital
with a satisfactory rate of interest. Your
Directors have paid particular attention to
ensuring a proper distribution of assets
among the different classes of investments
suitable for a Mutual Life 'Society.
Rates of interest continued at a satisfac-
tory level and the interest earned on the
mean assurance funds was £4/6/0%, an
improvement of 4/-d.% over the previous
year. Healthy expansion and efficiency in
methods have enabled us to show a further
reduction in the ratio of operating ex-
penses. Excluding Taxes the ratio of total
expenses to total income in the Ordinary
Department was reduced from 13.73% to
12.89%. In the Industrial Department,
w’herein the Society’s Agents attend to
Policyholders’ requirements in their homes,
the reduction w r as from 28.17% to 27.56%.
Owing to a substantial increase in the
provision for Income and Land Taxes the
ratios of total expenses, including Taxes,
to total income show a smaller reduction
from 14.99% to 14.85% in the Ordinary
Department and a slight increase from
29.70% to 29.72% in the Industrial Depart-
ment.
Payments to Policyholders
Payments to policyholders and bene-
ficiaries during the year exceeded 7j million
pounds. Death claims, though greater
than the previous year were well within
actuarial expectation and the amounts pay-
able on matured endowment policies were,
of course, covered by funds accumulated
for the purpose.
The Accident Department showed further
expansion and its Premium Income ex-
ceeded £500,000 for the first time.
The Actuary’s Report again brings good
news to policyholders. The conservative
bases of valuation were maintained and
more than 2J million pounds will be used
to provide increased bonuses to policy-
holders in both Ordinary and Industrial
Departments. Increased benefits will be
provided under certain Accident policies.
«
Progress Under Mutual System
The programme for the current year is
one of continuous progress. Our aim is to
make available a complete Life Assurance
service to cover all requirements, so that
the greatest number of people may benefit
from the undoubted advantages of Life
Assurance on the mutual principle. As an
illustration I would remind you that our
Society was one of the pioneers in making
available Life Assurance for diabetics.
The range of contracts offered covers all
forms of Life Assurance and Personal
Accident and Sickness Insurance.
Payment of premiums is arranged on
the basis most suitable to the policyholder,
whether it be by payment direct to the
Office, by Bank Order, by deduction from
salary or wages under Group conditions,
or through the Industrial Department by
collection at the policyholder’s home. The
Society makes available a personal service
through which people may voluntarily make
provision for financial security according
to their own needs.
Staff
Our progress is attributable in no small
measure to the devotion to duty of the
men and women of the Field and Indoor
Staffs. ' Members of the Board fully
appreciate their work and you may rest
assured that your Society is in good hands
and will continue to make a notable con-
tribution to the well-being of Australia
and New Zealand.
Value of Life Assurance
The outlook today has elements of un-
certainty—both political and economic—
under the shadow of the international situ-
ation : and in such times Life Assurance
has a special appeal. There is no other
method of building Up an asset of com-
parable security' and elasticity, with the
unique feature that your programme of
savings is automatically completed without
cdst when the emergency created by death
of the person assured arises. No form of
industrial investment carries with it the
degree of taxation exemption applicable
to your premium payments: and you have
the satisfaction of knowing that the
moneys you entrust to the Society are
playing their part in the development of
every phase of National life.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs; H. W.
Buckley. R. A. Rowe, J. R. Burt and
IT. D. Stew r art, aiid the retiring Auditors,
Messrs. J. M. F. Relph and W. M. Scott,
were re-elected.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“You Never Can Tell”
Peter O’Shaughnessy’s pacy
version Of Shaw’s “You Never
Can Tell” at Sydney Independent
gets into difficulties because the
problems and characters in it no
longer have any real interest for
a 1956 audience.
Against Clem Kennedy’s
Dufyesque backdrop of the sea-
front at Torbay in Devon, Shaw’s
characters posture, stand on their
dignity, make rhetorical protesta-
tions of love, retract them, and
in genera] carry on with absurd
abandon. Nearer its own time
this might have been ridiculously
funny—even with the limitations
of some of the members of the
Independent’s cast.
The particular social
phenomenon Shaw is making fun
of is the New Woman, the
emancipated blue-stocking to
whom sex is a mere question of
“chemistry.” It goes without
saying that one of the “moments”
in the play is the melting of the
iceberg with the most elementary
of all chemical experiments.
As Valentine, the “five-shilling
dentist” who sees matrimony as
the only way out, Keith Buckley
relied too much on explosive out-
bursts of rage to achieve the
subtle comedy of his cat-and-
mouse play with Rhonney
Gabriel’s New Woman.
On the other hand the “irre-
pressible” youngsters of Eliza-
beth Waterhouse and Reginald
Livermore were as spryly
idiotic as necessary ; and Kevin
Brennan made an amusing, if a
little overdrawn, entry as the
Q.C. who puts the jigsaw-
puzzle together in the last scene.
But the one part which does
survive—pnd one which has
found itself in innumerable
films and plays since is the
diverting portrait of the sagely
übiquitous waiter (superbly
played by David Butler) who
slips wryly through the play
dropping a “You never can tell,
sir, you never can tell! ” here and
there.
❖ ❖
Chinese Opera
The present writer was not
unprepared for the Chinese
Theatre. He was not seeing it
for the first time. He had seen
it often enough long before the
Red conquest, in the open air in
village squares and temple court-
yards, inside small provincial
theatres and in enorrpous play-
houses in Shanghai, and on tour,
in places like Penang and Kuala
Lumpur, where there are even
larger Chinese populations than
in Melbourne.
It was always done in the same
way, and as it had been done for
countless generations. The
orchestra banged and brayed
and rattled, and paid no more
attention to the proceedings on
the stage than romping kids pay
to their parents. The heroine
screamed in a shrill falsetto
which sounded lika a whistling
train entering a cutting, and the
hero stamped and strutted, and
sometimes, for no apparent
reason, lifted his left foot up to
the level of his right knee and
stood thus for several seconds,
and it was evident from his
facial expression that this was a
gesture of immense importance
and not to be lightly disregarded.
Generals with flagstaffs stuck
in their ihoulderblades fiercely
menaced one another with long
speeches, while the heroic
armies performed astounding
acrobatics in the background ;
and to show that they were in
good condition the generals
themselves sometimes threw a
back-somersault and a hand-
spring.
The audience laughed and
talked and ate melonseeds and
wiped their faces in hot towels
passed to them by attendants,
and paid no more attention to the
classical Chinese theatre than
did the orchestral players. It
was all nice clean fun and as
simple as a glass of water, and
if somebody had told us Occi-
dentals (whom the management
usually accommodated wi t h
seats on the stage, as they did
in the time of Shakspeare) that
one of these days it would be
produced in London and Paris
and rapturously acclaimed by the
connoisseurs and the public, we
wouldn’t have believed him ; and
as for the management, it would
have been astonished.
Yet here was the curtain going
up on precisely the same show
at the Princess, Melbourne!
“The Drunken Beauty” was
hilariously amusing if you knew
the story of the famous beauty
Yang Kuei-fei,, the favorite con-
cubine of Emperor Ming Huang,
who invites her to his arbor to
drink wine and admire the
flowers, but forgets all about her,
having gone to the chamber of
another lady; so she solaces
herself by drinking herself silly.
You didn’t need to know the
idea behind it to enjoy “Where
Three Roads Meet” ; and, while
from any human or assthetic
viewpoint “In Yentang Moun-
tains” was flaming nonsense, the
way General Meng Hai-Kung’s
army vaulted into General Ho
Tien-lung’s fortress would have
impressed an Olympic athlete.
The Scarf Dance, in which the
dancers, male and female, wove
long red scarves into unbelievably
lovely patterns, was pure,
unadulterated beauty.
It was the same show, yet not
the same show, because the all-
too-efficient lighting which came
from on top, from front, back
and both sides, flattened out all
contrasts, denatured the color
and made the traditional
costumes look tawdry and
tasteless. The classical producer
was fortunate in having only the
sun or a few candles to light his
show.
“The Messiah”
It may have been a hangover
from the Olympic spirit which
produced what sounded like the
best performance on local record
of the “Messiah” at Melbourne
Town Hall by the oldest phil-
harmonic society in the British
Commonwealth of Nations.
Or perhaps the touch of in-
spiration in Sir Bernard Heinze's
direction came from the fact
that he was using the original
score published by Dr. Arnold
and loaned from the collection
of Dr. Dailey Scarlett, of Bris-
bane.
This had several implications.
The alleged “improvements” of
countless editors of Handel, to
which countless audiences have
listened, were necessarily absent
and what the packed Town Hall
got was a simple, vigorous
restatement of Handel’s original
intention, which to most of the
hearers must have seemed like
a new work. The orchestra did
not smother the soloists and the
choristers bathed themselves in
clear unsullied waters.
Glenda Raymond’s soprano
was revealed in all its beauty
and better than it was at the
Olympic Pool. Anne Levin aired
a rich if not deep contralto, Max
Worthley comforted the people
with an exceptionally warm
tenor and in “Why do the
nations so furiously rage
together?” the bass of Stanley
Clarkson was tremendous.
The Philharmonic gentlemen and
ladies have never sung the
Hallelujah chorus better.
Artbursts
William Hunter
To William Hunter at the
Athenasum went the distinction
of being the last. exhibitionist
of the year in Melbourne. His
show was also unique in includ-
ing a display of child-art —not
the art of his own childhood but
the art of the budding geniuses
of the Edithvale State school,
near which he lives.
He makes the observation that,
as to any artist who is not lost
in the past or in the popular
cliches, there is to children only
one time —here and now: a very
true observation, even though
his own work sometimes con-
tradicts it . . . Most of his'
pictures of the inland and
Naniatjira’s country follow much
the same conventions that Rex
Battarbee taught to the
aboriginal artist, and his abstract
compositions aren’t altogether
innocent of the modern cliches.
“I Discover Me,” “I Go to
War with Walter Mitty,” “War
Comes to Me,” “I Meet the
Cognoscenti” and “I Hold an
Exhibition” are lampoons by
Mr. Hunter directed at Mr.
Hunter and very amusing they
are. The best shows him exhibit-
ing one of his pictures to the
critics, who are collapsing in
horror around him.
Talkies
‘Meet Me in Las Vegas”
(Sydney St. James): Despite the
appearance of a whole string of
singing guest-stars in this sump-
tuously-set M.-G.-M. musical,
dancing is all that matters in it —
and, at that, the customers
certainly can’t complain that
they have been diddled. Cyd
Charisse is the ballerina whose
whirlwind romance with a
wealthy ranch-owner sets every-
body on their toes.
“Pardners” (Sydney Prince
Edward): This frothy - Martin-
and-Lewis burlesque has the
goofy member of the comedy-
team as a city playboy who is
seized with a yen for cow-
punching. There are one or two
noteworthy original touches in
the knockabout, and Martin is
a smooth foil to his exuberant
pard.
“The Ladykillers” (Sydney
Embassy): Alec Guiness has
done it again. Assisted by
masterly make-up, he mixes
crime and humor, as he did in
“Kind Hearts and Coronets,” in
a mocking stbry about a quintet
of city bandits, of which he is
the macabre master-mind, who
co-opt the innocent services of
Alec’s temporary old landlady
to help land the loot. When she
accidentally becomes aware of
her part in its success and
announces she is going to the
police they set about trying to
bump her off, but things work
out differently. Very ingenious
and uproariously funny.
“My Sister Eileen” (Sydney
Lyceum): F.a.q. comedy about
the tribulations faced by two
country sisters who come to
N’Yoik to seek careers, and who
have to take their ideals in at
the seams to make life tolerable
in the bohemian locality where
they have their diggings. With
some none-too-inspired hoofin’
and croonin’.
“Smiley” (Sydney Mayfair):
A wholesome and delightful film
about a small outback Australian
boy and the scrapes he gets into
—and out of —urged by ambition
to own a bike. Under Anthony
Kimmins’s direction the film
gives an authentic picture of a
small township, the humor
bubbles spontaneously, Smiley
and his mate talk and act as
bush-kids do, and Colin Peterson,
as Smiley, is naturalness itself.
Only weakness is an attempt to
inject some drama, with the local
Bung as a purveyor of opium
to the abos. Ralph Richardson
etches-in a neat portrait of a
breezy bush-parson, John Mac-
Callum is the villainous beer-
puller, Chips Rafferty a stern but
kind - hearted police - sergeant,
Charles Tingwell an understand-
ing schoolmaster, and Jocelyn
Hernfield an attractive school-
marm.


A Woman's
Word
By
RAY MATHEW
YOU must know that I
live in a room and a
kitchen in a house that
is full of rooms with
kitchens. I live on tlje ground-
floor near the front door and
the telephone so that, want to or
not, I become involved with
everyone in the house and with
all of their friends that are on
door-knocking or phone-ringing
terms. But the ones I become
involved with most pleasantly
are the girls upstairs.
They live four flights up, next
to Heaven, and, hardened sinners
as they are, sentimental as they
are, womanly and interfering as
they are, they are good friends
to me in their womanly way. We
share gin occasionally in hot
weather, drink gallons of tea
and pry into one another’s lives.
We have mutual friends —our
circles overlap—and we gossip
about them, which helps to stop
me writing novels.
But it was not just to gossip
or just to drink tea that Lorna
dropped-in the other night. She
let me think so, though, until
the fourth round of tea.
“This is a country habit,” I
said, pouring. “Tea at every
spare minute. I can’t shake
myself of it.”
“It’s nice,” said Lorna. “Ina’s
coming down to stay with me
next weekend.”
“I am unmoved,” I said.
“Sorry. I’ve spilt some tea in
your saucer.”
“It’s not often you give me a
saucer,” said Lorna. “You
know, don’t you, that you’re
madly attracted to her?”
“It’s almost frightening,” I
said. “I’m not.”
“She’s attractive.”
“ You’re more my type.”
“Oh, for Heaven’s sake, Will!
Don’t work like a machine.
Just because I gave you a cue,
there’s no need to give me the
line.”
“Let’s forget about Ina. Let’s
drink tea.”
“Actually, she’s coming down
for the wedding.” Lorna
sipped her tea and stared at me.
“Whose wedding?” I asked,
realising as I spoke that this
was it.
“Annette’s,” said Lorna.
“Are you terribly upset?”
“Why should I be?” I
poured more hot'water into the
teapot.
“I’m so glad you’re not,” said
Lorna. “You’ll be able to come
to the wedding with us. Annette
said it’d be all right.”
“You know I’m in retirement,
I’ve given up life. I’ve got to
work. I’m not going to any-
body’s wedding.”
“Oh,” said Lorna. “I see.”
She looked infuriatingly sympa-
thetic.
“Actually,” I laughed, “if
she’d been just a bit more
clever—or just a bit more
interested —I’d probably have
fallen in love with her; gone
like Sunday.”
“You gave a good imitation
as it was.”
“Madness,” I assured her. “I
enjoyed the act, I got carried
away.” •
AND I remembered suddenly
and very vividly the three
days it had lasted until the night
before Good Friday when we
had gone fishing and she had
convinced me she was an
innocent, so that I started talk-
ing to her about life like a
benevolent fatuous old man and
had just 'kissed her cheek good-
night ; and had woken up the
next morning and realised how
boring I’d been (and how bored)
and that I wasn’t in love at all
and that she must have been
laughing at me.
She was not an innocent at
all.
“It’s time she was married,”
I said. “Nb one should be
allowed to remain as naive as
Annette.”
“You may have let her remain
naive, dear, but I doubt if Hans
will.”
“Hans?”
“The groom. He’s German.
Tall, blond. Terribly masculine,
I believe. Perhaps that’s what
she needs, somebody positive.
You took her fishing, didn’t
you?”
“Yes.”
“Well, don’t get annoyed.
I’m sure it was charming.”
“You are a bitch.”
“I suppose so,” she sighed,
and she gave a little wriggle of
satisfaction. “But I don’t mean
to be. Ido it without thinking,
really I do. And I know you
don’t mind. You just write me
down as catty in your notebook
and wonder if I’ll fit into the
Great Australian Novel. Will I
tell you what I write down in
my notebook, about you?”
“No!” I yelled. “No!” We
both laughed.
FRIDAY morning, Lorna
brought Ina down to my
room to see me. She used to
do this in a spectacular way
whenever Ina was in Sydney.
I think it was her way of
saying, you can have him now-
In any case she was always
contriving to throw us together
because, as she put it, “I’d
never begrudge you any fun.”
I assured her repeatedly that Ina
didn’t attract me in the slightest,
assured her so vehemently that
even I (seeing her tolerant smile)
began to think I was deceiving
myself.
But it was true: Ina was not
my type. She dressed well,
looking as smart and smooth as
a fashion-magazine, which was
rather intimidating. And she
was intelligent in a very
masculine way so that I
couldn’t talk to her as tolerantly
as one likes to talk to a woman
and was nervous with her; her
maliciousness worried me in a
way that “womanly” talk does
not. Besides, she was tall and
thin, like a fashion-picture,
which is just not my type.
They were both dressed to
kill.
“Claws sharpened,” I asked.
“Off to the wedding?”
“Heart-red,” said Ina, display-
ing her nails.
“Terrifying,” I said, and
meant it. “Well, I don’t want to
hurry you away but I’m expect-
ing someone.”
“You’re not entertaining
again!” said Lorna. “I thought
you were in retirement, working
on your novel.”
“I have to experience life.”
“Who are you entertaining?”
asked Ina. “Anyone I know?”
“Hardly likely,” I said,
smirked.
“You are discreet,” said Ina
with approval.
“He smuggles them in,” said
Lorna with disgust, “and he
smuggles them out. He’s never
let me meet one of them.”
“How would I explain you?”
“Well, it’s not sociable,” said*
Lorna. “But I suppose it’s
because you’re so terribly
secretive that you have such a
placid existence.”
“If you mean that I don’t
expect people to get on well with
one another just because they
get on well with me,” I said
rather huffily, “then you’re quite
right.”
“You’re terribly English,” said
Lorna. “Terribly.”
“Go away before I give you a
black-eye.”
I meant it, too.
“My, you can be positive
when you want to,” said Ina,
laughing at me. I’d been judged
again and found wanting.
AT the most inconvenient
moment of that afternoon the
telephone rang. I give everyone
I know a secret ring (two rings,
then stop, then ring again),
which flatters them and enables
me to ignore them if I’m busy.
But this wasn’t the secret ring.
It could have been anyone—
the Prime Minister, the Queen,
a publisher. I put on my
dressing-gown and went .to the
phone. It was Lorna.
“Will,” she said, “you’ve got
to come and rescue us.”
“What’s the noise I can hear?”
“I’m ringing from a pub.”
“Which?”
“The Regal,” she said.
“Which pub has nothing to do
with it.”
“The Regal’s the best in
Sydney. You don’t need
rescuing.”
“We’re having a terrible time,
Will. We’re really frightened.”
“Who’s we?"
“Ina and I.”
“You don’t need rescuing.
What are you frightened of?”
“The Germans.”
“Really,” I said, “it’s draughty
in the hall. I can’t talk about
the political situation now.”
“I’m sorry I disturbed you,”
said Lorna. “Give her my
apologies. Let your friends just
die.”
“Right,” I said and hung up.
But the afternoon was spoilt.
What if they were in trouble?
“What if they are in trouble?”
I said. “I feel a bit mean.”
“What about me?” said my
friend.
“Oh, I’m never mean to you."
“Aren’t you?”
t>UT the phone rang again. It
was Lorna.
“WiU,” she said. “We’re leav-
ing the Regal now.”
“So what?”
“They’re leaving with us.”
“Who?”
“The Germans.”
“What Germans?”
“I tried to tell you before,
Will, but you wouldn’t listen.
Not the Germans in Germany,
the Germans from the wedding.
We can’t get rid of them. Every
time we tried to go, they kept
us.”
“You couldn’t just walk away,
I don’t suppose! Really, Lorna,
your’e a grown woman
now”
“Oh, Will, don’t be unsym-
pathetic. They’re terrible. They
kept us here. And now Ina’s
told them we’ve got to go
shopping.”
“Why?”
“Just an excuse, Willto get
away. But they said they’d come
with us. So I said, quick as a
flash—you’d have been proud
of me, Will —that they couldn’t
because we had to buy a
brassiere.”
“Well?”
“Well, they just laughed and
said, in a terribly guttural way,
that of course they would come
with us.”
“Well, let them go with you.”
“But we don’t want to buy a
brassiere! ” She sounded
hysterical.
“How do you get yourself into
these messes? You’ll have to
EDUCATION
Loving is needing, is my erudition;
knowledge educed when l was a long time lonely.
Since you came here all my wanting only
makes anxious truth of early supposition.
Note my extravaganza of desire
in which unfashionably fierce l rave ;
note the serenity with which you lave
methodically my plethora of fire.
To what seems diffidence from you compare
my spluttering and drastic indiscretion.
Captive to none, in simple self-possession,
you have compelled me prisoner unaware.
Tell me you have a gentle need of me
that l may need you, not so violently.
VICTORIA.
LAURENCE COLLINSON.


&
fe}
The man
ii
in the
Stepping into a Stamina two-piece suit is like stepping
into your own, brand new car. You get a “lift” from its
spanking good looks. But a rich appearance isn’t every-
thing. You want, also, the quality that goes with it. And
you couldn’t find better quality than this handsome, hard-
wearing Crusader worsted. It’s pure wool. It’s all wool.
It’s guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
You’ll have a millionaire look, and millionaire comfort,
too, all the year round. It’s the suit you’ll want the
minute you see it.
ASK FOR
wmmm.
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
i
mm
CLOTHES
CH'ttS
buy one. Or tell the truth. But
you’d find that hard.”
“There’s no need to be
sarcastic.”
“There’s nothing else I can
do.” I hung-up and went back
to my room.
“You were a long time,” said
my friend.
“So what? Lorna’s in trouble.
1 was a long time. So what? I
don’t like Germans. They're so
clean.”
“My ancestors were German.”
“Oh, not all Germans,” 1 said.
“Only the clean ones.”
“Thank you.”
“Now don’t start being silly.”
“I’m not being silly. Who’s
Lorna, anyway?”
“Just one of the girls upstairs.”
“I suppose I’m just one of the
girls downstairs.”
“There you go! A man
can’t”
We had a row, a beauty. It
was not a successful day.
'T'HE friend (perhaps a friend
no more) had gone by the
time Ina knocked at the door.
“Will,” she said, “make me
some tea. I’ve had the most
dreadful time, traumatic.”
She was obviously upset, so
I made tea and soothing noises
while she sat and watched me.
She kept making distressed but
fashionable gestures of smooth-
ing down her hair. She told me
about the wedding.
The wedding was all right,
except that it looked odd with
only the two girls and Annette's
parents on her side of the
church and wgh Hans’s ten
German “brothers” in a solid
masculine mass on his. After
the wedding they went back to
the flat where Annette’s people
lived.
Her mother had decorated it
with a few' flowers and had got in
a large supply of drink that
quite obviously, quite early, was
not large enough. Her father—
always an ineffectual man —got
drunk almost immediately.
The girls gave their presents
—kitchenware of a rather cattily
practical type —and the Germans
gave theirs. It was a water-set,
a jug and six glasses, tj|d together
with a cord that was decorated
with little paper swastikas.
When Annette opened the
parcel and saw the flags she
thought it was a joke and
started to smile. I could imagine
it easily—-her big eyes opening
wide in their affected way, the
half-smile she used in her
bewildered little-girl pose, the
flickering biteable tongue ; I’ve
never met anyone who can be
more deliciously amazed.
The girls began to laugh too,
but the Germans looked so
seriously pleased at Annette’s
bewildered delight that they
stopped. They stopped once and
for ajl when one of the
“brothers,” called (significantly
enough) Fritz, pinned a picture
of Hitler on the wall. Then
Hans and his friends began to
sing.
“Don’t laugh, Will,” said Ina.
‘ They sang Deutschland TJber
A lies. We sang it, too.”
“You and Lorna sang it?”
“Lorna didn’t know it.”
“Why did you sing?/
“I had to,” said Ina.
I had never known her do
anything before because she
“had to.”
“I was standing beside a
dreadful little man from Ham-
burg,” she said. “And he just
looked at me until I started to
sing. But I pretended I didn’t
know the words.”
“D/d you know them?”
“I learnt them at a party in
Berlin, as a joke, at an R.A.F.
station. That was only a year
ago. Everyone said Hitler was
dead, then. I was/only in
Berlin a few days. They told
me there were Germans like
Hans’s friends.”
“Who told you?”
“The other Germans, the real
ones. Oh, Will, you are stupid.
Can’t you follow anything?”
“Well, I just don’t know why
you’re upset. They sang, which
was probably not pleasant. They
appear to be Nazis, which is
very nasty. But that’s all that
happened. And perhaps they
were joking. What did Hans
do?”
“Hans!” said Ina. “Hans —
he’s the worst of the lot, the ring-
leader, their very own Fuehrer.
He’s even got sabre-cuts. If you
could feel what it felt like. It
was so terrible and silly.”
After the toasts Hitler, the
Fatherland, the bride-and-groom,
the Queen (ineffectually pro-
posed by Annette’s father) —
everyone drank beer except the
girls and Annette’s mother. A
woman of childlike charm, she
had never in her life understood
anything unpleasant and now
she clucked soberly from,savories
to glasses with her usual air of
intoxication. The Germans, as
Ina pointed out, loved her; they
could ignore her with such ease.
They began to ignore every-
one ; they talked in German,
which Lorna kept saying was
terribly rude of them, until the
one she was standing near trans-
lated for her:
“Once Hans is back in Ham-
burg, he will forget this Aus-
tralian girl.”
They told stories which made
them laugh and which Ina, with
two months in Europe, knew
more about than they realised.
She didn’t translate any of them
for Annette or her mother. They
mentioned Kinder, Kuche,
Kir che.
“Anyway, I can’t imagine
Annette with children, kitchen
or church,” I said.
“Neither could they,” said
Ina. /They could only imagine
her one way. They gave the
marriage six months. And I’m
sure, sure that they mentioned a
wife in Germany.”
jCANE of them said that he was
saving for a car, a Volks-
wagen—“not only for patriotic
reasons,” he said.
They all talked of saving; of
getting a lot of money ; of going
home to swank; to join the
Army; of getting away out of
Australia to save Hans from
this girl; to get him and all of
them back in Hamburg. They
boasted about the women there,
of Hans’s girl who had some-
thing you could get hold of.
“I can just imagine,” said
Ina, “what the Hamburg girl
looks like. But only just.”
“What’s there between these
blokes and their precious bloody
Hans?” The touch about the
Volkswagen had upset me ; I was
saving-up to buy a Holden.
“All brothers,” said Ina. “But
Hans is father. They’ve been
sharing the same house. It’s like
children, a secret-society—pass-
words and all. Only Heaven can
know how they got into the
country. They were boasting, I
think (they were talking so fast),
about being illegal immigrants.
Oh, they’re so smart! Like nasty
little boys in a gang. They said
Australia was a bloody place,
said it in English ; said dozens
of things. Lorna was red with
rage, red. And I was feeling
so Australian. I’ve never felt so
patriotic before, except when I
was in England.”
Then the drink gave out.
Annette’s father fell asleep.
The reception was over. But by
this time Fritz, who seemed to
be leader after Hans, had become
interested in the girls. He
handed Lorna the last glass of
beer.
“Thank you,” he said.
“Laugh.”
Lorna stared at him.
“Drink,” he said. She stared
again. “Drink,” he said and
raised the glass to her lips.
She drank.
“If she hadn’t opened her
mouth,” said Ina, “he’d have
poured it all qver her dress. And
then they took us to the Regai.
What could we do? We had to
be polite for Annette’s sake.
She’s stuck with them. Hans
hasn’t been here long enough
for a divorce.”
“They’re only just married,”
I said. “Poor Annette wouldn’t
dream of”
“If you can’t see, Will, that
that marriage is impossible, you
are very naive, very.”
“No, I’m not, but married a
few hours”
“Can you imagine anyone we
know, even Annette, drinking to
a picture of Mr. Menzies at a
private party and singing
‘Advance Australia Fair’? Can
you?”
“No. No.”
“Well, they are more political
than that. And more sinister.
No one we know could put up
with it.”
TEN Germans set out with the
girls for the Regal, but by
the time they got there (across
the street) there was only Fritz,
a nicer one called Hermann, and
two with no English. After a
couple of drinks the girls
wondered where Hans and
Annette were.
“Married,” said Fritz. “Honey-
moon.”
The girls looked shocked and
drank their beer. They got up
to go.
“Not go,” said Hermann in a
pleading tone.
“Stay,” said Fritz. “Drink.”
They drank. They got up to
go again.
“Is fun?” said Fritz, banging
his glass. “Is fun? Is fun?” He
looked red in the face and angry.
They sat down again.
Then Lorna excused herself
and rang me. I was useless to
her but she went back and told
the Germans that she and Ina
o Continued on page 34)
FROM THE WESTERN
CITY
The sun sets red in the sea,
The land-wind blows from the
east,
A "continent stands between
My homesick heart and its quest.
How wicked and impolite,
Sparkling, tender, cruel,
Lazy, crazy and swift,
Dissonant, musical,
Repellent hut limitlessly
To be desired and sought
Seems Sydney. 1 can see
Each bay, building and street
More intimately than ever
With immediate sight;
Hear its jostle of voices,
Its watery loud or quiet
Own voice. Here it is calm
And very orderly,
All clean and decently planned,
Seldom cloud in the sky.
While, pressing close to this
scheme,
The hot land, old and wild,
Hides separate —kept apart
Like some unruly child
Locked in soundproof cupboard •
Plotting it may be
Eventual revenge,
But that is far away.
And / long for the old city
From whose releasing hands
The settlements spread away,
But never without bonds.
Australia’s endlessness
Has never seemed so vast
When the ocean has swallowed
the sun
And the land-wind blows from
the east.
W.A.
NANCY KEESING.


LOW'S
Autobiography
David Low, of course, made his name and did some of his
greatest work in his years with “The Bulletin,” and one of
the several things that specially helped him was his conflict
with “Billy” Hughes. Here he is in the midst of that fight.
6
( Continued)
—UNFORTUNATELY as Billy’s
; stock rose in London, it fell in
| Australia. The fulsome tributes
\ to the new leader from the
| Antipodes, his gifts and
ill wisdom, his dominating person-
ality, when cabled back to Australia, did
not impress Billy’s Labor supporters
favorably. The feeling grew that our
Billy was being “used” by intriguing
British politicians, or, worse, that the
cunning Imperial authorities were seduc-
ing him away from “Australia First.”
By the time Billy had returned home,
so strong were the apprehensions that he
found his Labor-party comrades receiving
him not with welcome but with dark
suspicion.
Much water had flowed under bridges
in other quarters also. The Easter Rising
in Dublin and its suppression had greatly
upset Irish-Australians, who were decid-
ing, with the help of their extremely
active nationalists and sectarians, that
England, after all, was only “the land of
cant, humbug and hypocrisy” and
deserved a hiding, anyway.
Altogether it was not a propitious
moment for Billy to announce his big
decision to put the question of Conscrip-
tion to a referendum.
No free people had ever before been
invited to vote its men into military
service. Voluntary recruiting had done
very well. Perhaps Billy had promised
too much in London ; perhaps to arm,
equip, feed, pay and transport 200,000
men per annum would soon strip the
country of active manpower and cause
an economic breakdown.
Decision on the limits of prudence in
these respects called for sober, detached
judgment and balancing of risks; and,
when made, for implementation with a
minimum of social disunity. In short,
for statesmanship.
Instead, the issue was thrown into the
ring and a political dogfight unparalleled
for irrelevance and confusion began
immediately. The country was torn
apart.
THERE was much that was pertinent
for argument. Questions, for
instance, as to whether voluntaryism was
fairer than conscription, or the other way
around ; whether it was moral to con-
script men before wealth ; what was to
happen to the troops when the war
ended; and how, why and where the
troops were needed.
Ireland’s grievance against England, on
the other hand, had precious little to do
with the issue. But this is a contrary
world, and so, in the long run, actively
fomented by the remarkably able Dr.
Mannix, Coadjutor Catholic Archbishop
of Melbourne, it proved the decisive
element.
The Irish vote in Australia represented
nearly twenty-five per cent, of the total
voting-power and was largest by far in
New South Wales. Mannix was a
striking personality, a spellbinder with a
queer combination of „ dignity and
demagogy, direct and provocative,
generating heat, excitement and occasion-
ally frenzy.
After the Dublin Rising, the hostile
element in this community, backed-up by
the entire Roman Catholic press and
hierarchy, with the exception of one
protesting Archbishop in Western Aus-
tralia, dominated the scene and swamped
the politicians, experts, economists and
worthy citizens who confined themselves
merely to relevant debate.
Billy made the fatal decision to put his
troublesome prelate [i.e., Dr. Mannix] in
his place. That was his mistake, for he
was beaten at his own game.
A duel began. The Archbishop, settling
his biretta firmly on his head, proceeded
to switch the issue until it seemed that
the Battle of Dublin Law Courts had
been moved to the Sydney Post Office and
his audience were about to fire their
lethal votes at the oppressor. The blind
unreason of expatriate nationalism-cwm-
sectarianism rose to the surface as the
flock consolidated. A few months before
these Australians had been eager to deal
blows for England. The answer to Billy’s
referendum was No.
THROUGH this jungle I ploughed
conscientiously, weighing pros and
cons. I took my responsibilities as a
satirist very seriously and was much con-
cerned that my aims should be at the
right targets.
In general my cartoons of that time
had upheld the war-aims in more-or-less
dignified allegory and kept check on
passing events. When it came to the point
I supported Yes, largely because, what-
ever little confidence 1 had in the argu-
ments for Yes, 1 had still less in the
arguments for No.
I was influenced by reasons as much
humane as political and military. I still
thought voluntaryism was the only toler-
able way of raising fighting forces in a
free democracy in time of peace—an 4 in
war-time, too, except in conditions of
desperate emergency. The war was going
badly, and it seemed to me that the
point had arrived at which a system of
compulsory selection taking account of
individual circumstances would be better
than the cruel farqe “voluntary” recruiting
had become.
The means to ensure a continuous
stream of recruits had already changed
by easy stages from persuasion to
pressure, from pressure to persecution.
The “voluntaryism” was becoming merely
nominal, the reality a degrading man-
hunt.
My cartoons recommending Yes did
not prevent me, however, from an inter-
mittent criticism of the Prime Minister’s
disastrous mishandling of the whole
question the prevailing conditions.
My cartoons were now being reprinted
around and “quoted” in platform
speeches. My mail, both abusive and
complimentary kinds, began to increase
HON. .TENS AUGUST HUCHES
Minister o) CobTawo
SENATOR HON. TED HUGHES.
Assistant MjnisTer
HON. PATRICK MPMAHON HUGHES.
Min i iter o| Internal Aftaina
SENATOR HON. E.D HUCHES.
V«oe P'eiidenT E«ecwK«e Council
HON. LITTLETON HUGHES
A.*A« £>T}WT Mjn i sT«r
HON. W. HUGHES,
SENATOR HON G.F. HUGHES
tAiriiiTcr o[ Def-erice..
HON. W. A. HUGHES
Minister Of Works
HON. BIGJOHN HUGHES
Treasvner
HON. JOSEPH. HUGHES
Minister oj- tVic N&vpr.
HON. WILLIAM MffiPlS HUGHES,
IT
HUGHESITIS
[THE BULLETIN cartoon that “Mr. Whoosh ” evidently enjoyed. Ministers depicted are (BACK ROW) : Jensen, Groom,
Russell, Glynn, Millen and Webster. (Front row): Pearce, Watt, Forrest, Cook and Hughes himself. By nice
coincidence, a son of one of them—Glynn— was in The Bulletin office being interviewed and sketched ( by
Dubois) on the day the etchers started on the above reproduction.]


DAVID LOW RARITY
The etching from which this block was
made is inscribed: “To Jim Tyrrell, the
Ist attempt, from Woj”—Low thus
pointing the slip he made with his
etching-signature.. . almost a hallmark
of beginners.
prodigiously. I was by now made aware,
by indications pleasant and unpleasant,
that I had attracted notice, and, further,
that my “specialisation” in Hughes was
considered by some of his supporters to
be in fact persecution. When another
cartoonist drew me in a cartoon about
Hughes I had an uneasy feeling that I
was on the way to becoming a political
symbol myself.
Australia voted No. The rebuff to the
Prime Minister at the referendum and
his expulsion from the
Labor party did not
deflate the Prime
Minister’s ego, but
rather increased it to
the point of identifying
his own retention of
power with the winning
of the war.
He formed a
“National” Govern-
ment with the anti-
Labor Opposition, and
the press began to wilt
under the imposition of
a censorship becoming
more political than
military and seemingly
directed rather at pre-
serving Billy’s personal
prestige than at depriv-
ing the enemy of
advantage and en-
couragement.
I had never shared
the opinion that Billy
Hughes himself and the
war-aims were insepar-
able. Rather the oppo-
site. It seemed to me
that his Dominating
Personality, from being
a national asset, had
become a d efinite
liability, if not a positive
danger; and that both
the country and the
war-effort would be
better off with a less disruptive Prime
Minister.
A/fY cartoons reflected this view week
by week by featuring Billy carrying
a penny-balloon inscribed “D.P.” for
Dominating Personality. Since it was
easier to censor textual statement’ than
the subtle cumulative implications of
caricature, I had a charmed life with
the censors until one day Billy’s vanity
exploded and he took steps to have me
suppressed. I quote from The Bulletin
the following account of one incident:
Low liad done a fine war-cartoon, which
had been duly submitted to the censor and
passed. The telephone tinkled.
“Mr. Prior, isn’t it? The Editor of ‘The
Bulletin ? About that cartoon you sent
along. It must not be published.’’
“What’s that?’’
“It must not be published. Mr. Hughes
will not allow it to be published.’’
“Mr. Hughes? Who is Mr. Hughes?
The censor?’’
“No, the Prime Minister.”
“I don’t know him in the matter. The
cartoon has been passed by the Chief
Censor and you’ll see it in ‘The Bulletin’
next week.”
“It mustn’t appear, Mr. Hughes says.
IV>n’t you understand, the Prime Minister
will not allow it to appear.”
“Then ‘The Bulletin’ will not come out
next week at all.”
Thank God for an editor who stood
by his cartoonist. That was too much
for Billy. Upon thought of the uproar
that would follow the inevitable explana-
tion of The Bulletin’s non-appearance,
Hughes changed his mind, and The
Bulletin came out as usual, with the
cartoon.
But pretty soon life was made more
difficult for me. An amendment of the
War Precautions Regulations was issued
tightening up power to censor cartoons.
After that it become a game of hide-
and-seek, in which I was not always able
to keep my nose above water.
i TpHE time was right for me to publish
The Billy Book, a fantastic account
in caricature of Hughes’s adventures
during his travels to and in Britain.
One can’t be mordantly satirical all
the time, was an essay in mere
humor, “softening with loving swit the
social scene.” It was a publishing success
at 25., and it had sales of about 60,000,
bales of it going overseas to the soldiers;
but its reception proved to be a good
demonstration of the decisive contribution
made to the effect of a book of cartoons
by the element of time.
The Billy Book made no particular
political point, except that in certain
- aspects a Prime Minister could be comic.
There are always, of course, the dullards
who cannot discriminate between farce
and satire and incline to think that any
liberties taken with the personal dignity
of a public man come under the heading
of attack, not only on his policies but
on his very existence. But in the prevail-
ing controversial atmosphere, and in the
frame created for me by Billy’s admirers,
the book took on the semblance of an
ambush bristling with malice.
Useless for me to say that it was just
fun. Since I was critical of Hughes in
The Bulletin, the contention that I was
being only jocular in The Billy Book
seemed obvious nonsense.
Hughes himself thought so, and when.
Ted Russell, one of his own Ministers,
RECRUITS
Says the “gag” to this part of the original page-cartoon by Low (titled “One
Recruit and Another”): “The modest person in the newspaper is ‘The Bulletin’
artist” In this instalment he tells how he got on.
who was also a friend of mine, gave him
a copy he ripped it up and threw it in
the corner.
The legend of my bitter animosity to
Hughes grew, and his admirers began to
give me some of my own medicine, his
press accounting for me as being a
failure squatting in a corner warped with
envious hate at people like Hughes who
had got on in the world.
Stories were printed that Hughes
declined to meet me, that I declined to
meet Hughes, that when on a certain
occasion I walked into a room he had
walked out, and that he had tried to have
me barred from the Parliamentary press-
gallery.
In fact, however, we met often enough.
The first time was in the company of his
predecessor as Prime Minister, Andrew
Fisher, a very different chap, tough but
with gentle black eyes and friendliness
towards artists. In Andrew’s presence a
certain cordiality was constrained all
round.
Next time, in the lift of Parliament
House, was more natural. As we slid
downwards Billy, Hector Lamond, a
Labor leader who was the friend of both
of us, and I, Hector tactlessly presented
me, whereupon Billy cast doubts on the
legitimacy of my birth. I had to reply,
of course. The term “bastard” was a
term of endearment, however, in
Australia in those days, and we preferred
to take it as such.
There were other occasions, none
particularly notable for amiability or
courtesy.
Among the roses I received from fans
and reviewers arrived a contra supply of
raspberries, which grew in number day
by day. Among my letters one morning
was one in wild calligraphy signed A. J.
Whoosh, complimentary and asking for
the original of that week’s cartoon.
“Another fellow wanting something for
nothing,” thought I, poking the letter
into my “File and Forget” pigeonhole.
A week later Hector told me the Prime
Minister was wondering why I had not
replied to his letter. I looked out Mr.
Whoosh’s letter and scrutinised it afresh.
Good heavens! It was not from Whoosh
but Hughes, Mr. Dominating Personality
himself.
I was surprised. But less so when I
turned up .the cartoon concerning which
he had so kindly expressed his admira-
tion. It represented him as having so
completely dominated his Cabinet that
his personal characteristics had become
superimposed on those of each and every
Minister.
I had it nicely framed and sent to him.
The decencies must be preserved.
If everything were properly stage-
managed in this world I should have
hated Billy like poison. I should have
been his John Wilkes Booth. But,
however disappointing to confess, it was
not like that at all. Had I been cast up
on a desert island with him (my supreme
test of human relations) I have no doubt
I would have liked him ; though I should
certainly have done my damnedest to
stop him from making himself king.
AFTER a general election at which
the “National” Government and Billy
were victorious, Hughes concluded that
the No vote at the referendum must have
been someone else’s fault, so he decided
he would give history a chance to correct
itself by putting the question again at a
second referendum.
Once more with incredible tactlessness
he provided his opponents with all the
ammunition they needed to frustrate his
purpose. In a final miscalculation of
public opinion, as if to make quite sure
that Conscription would be defeated, he
anticipated a Yes victory by calling-up
potential conscripts in advance.
With my call-up papers as a phantom
“Hugheselier” I attended with the rest,
coughed and hopped to the satisfaction of
the M.O. and was passed as fit for service
to await call. My conscription attracted
some attention, and one or two news-
papers made no secret of their suspicions
that Hughes had deliberately chosen this
means of shutting - lip “his most
pertinacious critic.”
My destiny became a matter of concern
to the public as well as to myself. The
call-up caught me, like many another
conscript, at a bad moment in rhy private
affairs; for the paper-famine in New
Zealand had killed my father’s business
stone dead, my only adult brother was in
camp, and I was now the sole earner and
support of the whole family.
My entering the war might not defeat
the enemy, but it would certainly defeat
the Low family.
I could justly have claimed a defer-
ment to put my affairs in workable shape.
But in the event my private affairs did
not come up, and I could not get a word
in edgeways.
The Bulletin Company promptly filed
a claim for exemption on the grounds
of National Importance. To add a top
note, I caught influenza, and I drooped
before the court like the Last Rose of
Summer as the wrangle went on as to
whether I was of more value fighting or
helping Hughes at home, whether any
cartoonist could be of National Import-
ance, and what had happened to other
cartoonists.
Such cartoonists as the court could
recollect by name were in khaki as
official war-artists making drawings of
soldiers in the trenches, so by implication
I could look forward to a continuation of
artistic usefulness, albeit under official
instructions; but there would not be, of
course, political cartoons about Billy,
which would be an offence coming from
one wearing the King’s uniform.
At this point voices began to rise.
After an interesting and —to everybody
but me —diverting discussion, the court
decided to leave things as they were, and
I was delivered back sneezing and
(Continued on page 25)
“BILLYWOG”
(“Babies cry for it”)


Luxury Air Travel
will soon be
available from
SYDNEY to
HONG KONG via
Darwin and Manila
Lockheed Super Constellation
This faster service introduces a new high standard
of comfort in both First and Tourist class air Travel
on this major QANTAS route.
The Super Constellation K)49G a Lockheed Luxury
Liner is scheduled for regular weekly flights
between Sydney and Hong Kong early in 1957.
QANTAS world routes link 25 countries and 5 continents
i
Wo
Qantas Empire Airways, K. L. M. Royal Dutch Airlines
and Air India International afford Super Constellation
service on world routes from Australia.
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, California Division, Burbank, California, U.S.A. / Look to Lockheed for Leadership I
For Sale
BELLEVUE HILL HOME
Cottage, 3 bedrooms, garden
study, garage, ocean breezes, level
land, best sunny position.
30 Fairweather Street,
Bellevue Hill. FM 6627.
£9500.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To bu* The Lives and Loves of
Frank Harris (4 Vols.). —6435.
1 -To buy From the Fly to the Sepik,
by I. Champion.—6436.
Mr. Henry Arthur Fletcher writes
from London: “I would like to con-
tact these relatives, last heard of
living in Australia—brothers Reuben
and Ben, sister Alice Mary (all born
at 75 St. Johns-road, Hoxton, Lon-
don) and nieces Winnie and Dorothy
(brother Reuben’s children; born
Lewisham, London).” —6440.
To buy copy of A Son of Australia
(the reminiscences of W. E. Parry-
Okeden), by Harry C. Parry.—643B.
Information Sought
• 4 -
Who, generally, is responsible for
Australian roads ? What is being
done to improve them ?
There are in Australia at present
524,478 miles of road, of which
107,236 (20.4 p.c.) are classified in
accordance with State legislation.
The main responsibility for their
maintenance is that of the Main
Roads authorities in each State. The
remaining 417,242 miles (79.6 p.c.)
are, excepting several thousand miles
in western N.S.W., under local-
government control. The principal
arterial network, therefore, comprises
a relatively small proportion of the
total mileage. Some 20,000 miles
have been added to the network since
1939, mainly in Queensland (9000)
and Western Australia (6000). Since
1946 the total number of motor-
vehicles (they now exceed 2,000,000)
has increased more than 100 p.c.
This increase in traffic-density and in
heavy-transport has revealed the soft
spots: deficiencies in width and
strength of roads, bridges and
facilities generally ; congestion of
traffic in and around capital cities
and provincial centres, in many cases
through inadequate thoroughfares.
State Main Roads authorities realise
these deficiencies and have made
extensive plans for forward pro-
grammes multi-lane and wider
highways, etc. ; but they never have
the resources. National expenditure
on roads has increased from
£26,581,919 in 1946-47 to an
estimated £84,000,000 in 1954-55, a
216 p.c. increase. It has been
estimated that a total of £557,598,000
will be required for capital works on
primary roads over the next 10 years
—quite apart from maintenance —to
provide for estimated traffic in
accordance with accepted road
standards. The total financial require-
ments for secondary roads (local-
government) for the same period is
estimated at £442,027,000.
* * • *
Some information on the measuring
(in magnitudes ) of the brightness of
stars ?
The ancient Egyptians, the first to
grade the brightness of the stars,
used six grades of brightness, and
these six have been retained; some
variations between the grades have,
however, been introduced. The lower
the figure, the brighter the star —
i.e., a first-magnitude star is brighter
than a second-magnitude star. A
star of sixth magnitude is the faintest
star that can be seen with the naked
eye. One first-magnitude star is as
bright as 100 sixth-magnitude stars;
expressed another way, each magni-
tude is 2\ times as bright as the
next-faintest magnitude. Fractional
magnitudes are used by astronomers,
some of the brighter stars being less
than 1. Sirius, the brightest star in
the heavens (though it’s not the most
powerful), is —1.6 magnitude, while
Vega is 0.1, Arcturus and Capella 0.2,
and Procyon 0.5. At the other
extreme the largest and most modern
telescopes can now record stars of
less than 21st magnitude.
* * * *
(1) Has Queensland cricketer Ken
Archer ever played for Australia ?
(2) Is he still playing ? (3) Which
was Ron Archer’s first Test ?
(1) Yes. He played in three Tests
against England in 1950-51 and two
against West Indies in 1951-52, open-
ing the innings each time. In the
second 1950-51 Test he made 26 and
46 (top-score), in the third 48, and in
the fourth 0 (caught off his bat-
handle) and 32; he was dropped from
the fifth-Test team. In the first. Test
against West Indies he made 20 (out
to a “miracle” catch by skipper
Goddard at silly-point) and 4, and in
the second 11 and 47, being then
dropped and never subsequently
recalled. It is widely believed, as
stated by Miller and Whitington in
their Straight Hit!, that he was given
. the “rawest of deals” by the selectors
—“Four brilliant demonstrations of
fielding [against W.l.], two dismissals
to really phenomenal catches, one
brilliant 47 and O-U-T spells Out.”
(2) He played in the first Sheffield
Shield game this season, captaining
Queensland against N.S.W., but on
the last day of the game announced
his retirement from first-class pricket.
(3) The fifth Test against South
Africa in 1952-53 (also lan Craig’s
first Test-match). Ron Archer was
chosen when both Miller and
Lindwall were unavailable through
injury; he made 18 and 0, and took
1-97 and 0-23. The Test was won
by South Africa.
Information Supplied
Replying to the “Service” Page’s
“Does Anybody Know?” (B.
12/12/’56), Mr. Gordon V. Keenan,
40 Albert-road, Warragul, Vic.,
writes: “I don’t know anything about
the N.S.W. cradle, but I was born at
Pine Creek (NX), in 1896 and reared
there at the time' when hundreds of
Chinese worked cradles; later, on the
Driffield, I worked one myself. The
box, as I remember it, was about 3ft.
6in. high, 3ft. 6in. wide arid sft. long,
the width tapering from 3ft. 6in. at
the rear end to lft, 6in. at the front
end. The cradle- or rocking-movement
was given by curved rockers fitted to
the cradle bottom; these*were rested,
complete with pins, in and on bearers.
The handle, at the wide end, was
pulled towards the user, and then
thrust away with a rhythm. The
wash being shovelled into the hopper,
the cradler took his stand, cradle-
handle in one hand, a water-dipper
on a long stick in the other —dipping
and pouring water on the wash, the
while with a bare foot he agitated the
wash-dirt so that it passed freely
through the hopper. The hopper was
built so that it could be easily lifted
out and the stones too large to pass
through the in-holes thrown away to
provide a clean start with the next
fill. The wash passing through the
hopper fell on to a tray that sloped
from the front to rear; this tray was
the same width as the cradle, "but
2in. shorter at the rear, so that the
wash was free to again fall on to a
second tray which sloped towards the
front. The wash passing from this
tray fell on to a third tray, which
again sloped to the rear and dropped
the wash on to the gently sloping floor
of the three-decker cradle. Each
sloping-tray and the cradle-floor was
so fitted that a piece of woolly
blanket could be stretched covering
the whole of the tray, the fitting of
the blankets such that they could be
readily removed for washing at least
four times a day—for these are the
gold-catchers and -holders. If the
side that had the chance to gather
the gold was dabbed face-down in
clean water, the gold fell into the
dish or tub easily. The size of the
cradle depended on the man: I’ve
seen some ‘Long Toms’ 6ft. long,
and I’ve seen cradles with only two
trays. In these the top tray sloped
from the rear to the front, so that
the second tray could drop the wash
at the rear end of the sloping-floor,
which was used as another tray.
Some had little strips of wood laid
across the floor to form ripples.
The cradle could always be tested to
see if there was gold in the wash.
This was done by washing the tail-
ings: if it was losing gold the cradle
sloped too much on the trays. If the
test was taken after a couple of hours’
work, the blankets might be found
to be loaded with heavy silt, with
the gold skidding over the top—which
meant *that the cradle should be
cleaned up more often. Used as the
Chows used them —standing on one
leg, stirring the hopper with the other
foqt, and dipping water with one
hand and rocking the cradle with the
other —I cannot think of any work
that uses so many muscles. And if
the wash is free-running, and has, say,
one or two dwts. to the dish, I can
think of nothing so pleasing to work
at as thf old ‘miner’s cradle.’ ”
Brief Answers
R.S.: Sorry, but that Brief Answer
(B. 7/11/’56) was in reply to your
question. That is all the information
we are able to give. If the sun
enters each sign of the zodiac on a
fixed date each year, we don’t see
how any answer in thousands of years
b.c. is possible F.A.F.: (1) In
1820 Lancelot Iredale opened a
hardware business in Sydney, beside
the markets, which he carried on till
his death in 1848. In 1850 the
business was sold to Frederick
Lassetter, Iredale’s son-in-law, who,
with two or three others, continued
to run it in partnership. On Sept. 7,
1863, the partnership*was dissolved,
and Lassetter then took over as sole
proprietor. A move was made to
larger premises in George-street on
Dec. 7, 1863, Frederick Lassetter
continued to run the business for over
50 years, dying in office on Sept. 5,
1911, aged 83. (2) Write the N.S.W.
Registrar - General’s Department,
Sydney. However, a search through
the department’s records will be
made only on receipt of the prescribed
search-fee of 10s J.E.: In the five
years before World War I Western
Europe (including Britain), considered
as one entity, was the biggest
importer of wheat in the world. The
biggest exporters to Europe were
Russia (average annual exports, 152-
million bushels), U.S.A. (104-million),
Canada (96-million) and Argentina
(80-million). In 1915 Russia’s
exports of wheat suddenly stopped.
After the war, by the early 1920’s
the acreage under wheat had been
so increased in the U.S.A., Canada,
Australia and Argentina that the
loss of Russia’s exports and decline
of Europe’s own production (due to
the ravages of the war) were quickly
made good; and the total world-
supply of wheat in the five years
1920-24 was in fact substantially
greater than in the five years ending
1914. (Europe had a bumper harvest
in 1923, which brought the wheat
position back to normal.)
L.J.: Hastings Deering Service, Ltd.,
suggest you contact Mr. Frank
Ullum, Service Manager, Ford Motor
Company, Eagle Farm, Brisbane —
an expert on the subject
D.C.: Though we know of no one in
Queensland, Eyesight (Ferguson
System) Training (Manchester Unity
Building, 185 Elizabeth-street, Sydney)
and Eye Culture (107 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney) both offer treatment
by correspondence.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(16/12/’56)
Heavy rains are probable in the coastal areas of
Queensland during January, with consequent flooding; rain
patchy in the western division and poor in the south-west
and southern-border areas.
In N.S.W. there should be reasonably good rain on the
coast and tablelands during January, but patchy and varying
from light to moderate in the western division. However,
general rains should commence in March, and a wet autumn
and winter should follow.
General rains above normal should occur in most of
t Victoria during January, with the heaviest falls in the central
division and north-east. Gippsland may be an exception,
with light to moderate rain, below average.
The agricultural areas of S.A. should receive good rain
during January, but light in the interior. General rains
should occur in February, with the possibility of flooding in
the upper-north.
In W.A., January should be a dry month, with pre-
dominantly hot temperatures. However, good rains should
occur in the north-west during February and move south-
ward through most of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
L.J.L.C.: It would not be
December if two or three bushfire
poems did not arrive in the morning
mail L.A.M.: You put more
thought into the covering-letter than
into the poems A.S.: “Alas!
Alas! You are one of those Who in
the basket doth repose” F.H.F.:
Couldn’t find a nesting-place for the
jenny-wren J.E.R.: Admired the
sentiments, but not the poetry
JJP.O’K.: Next time you visit Bondi
beach it might be an idea if you went
in for a dip J.P.S.: Sorry, but the
bush-grave in the clearing left us dry-
eyed. ~ .J. 8.: Just a string of con-
ventional couplets L.M.: You
can’t welcome them with “might and
main” in our columns E.E.F.:
Hopeless... R.R.8.: You’re about 40
years too late with that effort
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
J.1.F.: You are forgiven seeing that
you are only a tender 17 R.0.H.:
“Squawkabout” is now squawking in
the basket A.W.: The writing of
poetry is a little more than filling-in
time when you have nothing else to
d 0... .A.R.: It took the count in the
first round D.L.: From what old-
time album did you rescue that little
pressed flower? J.N.R.: Still
deafened by the “booming breakers,”
the seething city’s “ceaseless clamor,”
not to mention the “shrill cicadas
singing in the sunshine” R.A.:
“Misfire” misfired 1.A.R.: You
will have to cry for your lost youth
elsewhere N.A.R.: Sending back
one albatross
Who searches the deep for his slippery
prey,
From early morn to the evening grey.
.... M.W.: Returning “Homesick.”
... .M.McK.: When last seen the cat
was still chasing its tail J.S.: Can’t
see you winning the lady back with
verse of that description
D.A.F.8..: It casts but a feeble glow.
... .L. 0.: You can rest assured that
the moon still shines A.E.R.: A
very rugged offering L.T.: Ah,
there must always be a you: —
The palms’ castellations, magnolia bloom,
The fronds of bananas, the ocean’s boom.
The tropical fragrance condensing in dew,
The moonlight sonata of beaches —and
you!
. ...T.A.R.: “For either your
approval or w.p.b.” Sorry, but
they’re for the w.p.b M.Y.S.:;
Learn to express yourself with greater
clarity V.F.: We could not resist
this:
When I was just a little child,
I did like steak and kidney.
But my piece de resistance
Was oysters fresh from Sydney t
Then, in my teens, with no regrets,
My shillings I poured forth,
To purchase juicy pineapples,
From Queensland’s sunny North.
And so the years passed swiftly by.
Now, what I long for most,
Is just a few potatoes
From Tassie’s North-west Coast.


wheezing to The Bulletin uncondi-
tionally.
THIS was front-page stiff. I had a
mixed press hostility at both
political extremes, friendliness in the
middle. I judged that many solid citizens
found in the basic assumptions of my
cartoons a reflection of their own feeling.
Among those who had a vested interest
in the Prime Minister’s political glamor,
and in the more rabid quarters where I
had become an object of open execration,
it had been assumed that I would be
finally shut-up. It was almost too much
S. H. PRIOR
as seen by his grandson, Bill Prior, who was
still going to school when he made this
drawing.
to have me back officially stamped
Important.
And there was, of course, the lunatic-
fringe. One critic argued that for me to
draw cartoons about the war when I
was not in it wa£ indecent. Another
demanded that, since my cartoons were
now of National Importance, I should
turn over a new leaf and in future admire
Hughes.
All the known puns on my name flew
about, and I learned from various sources
that I was, taste, a sybarite
living in immoral 'ease while others
suffered, a hireling and a clown; or,
alternatively, a voice of the people, a
defender of the oppressed and a
statesman.
Probably in connection with an
astonishing allegation that I was a war-
profiteer, I found myself bracketed with
W. A. Holman, the Premier of New South
Wales, and Willie Watt, the Federal
Treasurer, who were both the subjects of
manhunt at the time. “The last man and
the last shilling!” said the columnist.
“What a contest it will be between Mr.
Watt and Mr. Low —each striving to be
last. We guess the honors will be
divided. Mr. Watt will be the last man
and Mr. Low will have the last shilling.”
The second referendum duly took place.
Once more the country was torn apart
with a jagged pandemonium in which
could be discerned fitfully the shrill howls
of the Irish banshee and the angry shouts
of Billy. Needless to say, No was carried
again, this time by an overwhelming vote.
Voluntary enlistment sagged, its neck
broken. A situation of complete frustra-
tion was avoided only by the unexpected
end of the war.
j]N that particular chapter of Australian
history I had made some bitter political
enemies in both camps. But also some
good friends.
One was Henry Stead, the same Henry
Stead I had dispossessed of fyis seat at
that welcoming luncheon at Adelaide five
years or so before. Henry was the son
of W. T. Stead, the famous British
journalist and social reformer, and he
had inherited his father’s integrity, besides
“Stead’s Review,” a property of his
family in Australia.
Henry was that rare thing, an honest
thinker. While all around patriotic
citizens were striving to distinguish black
from white through a fog of “loyal”
preconceptions, Henry eschewed all
loyalties save for the truth as he saw it.
Gracious, gentle and eminently sane, he
and his “Stead’s Review” were a pool of
light during some murky periods. We
clicked. I admired and liked him, and I
profited greatly from his wide European
outlook and experience. It was at his
house and in his company that I met a
new circle.
Like attracts like, and Henry’s
personality was sufficient to exclude the
kind of boneheaded “realists” who take
pride in not looking beyond their noses.
His friends —writers, civil servants,
politicians and a few Cabinet Ministers
—exchanged ideas on the war and the
post-war future with eyes on the distant
horizons.
Most of them were nominally Liberals
or Conservatives in politics, I
remember. My own intimates
had been, with few exceptions,
of the political Left, but in this
company my belief was con-
firmed that well-disposed men,
whatever their party allegiances,
do not differ so much in their
essential aims.
7
EN the distortions and suppres-
sions of war I had looked to
Henry Stead for an objective
view with the undertones and
overtones. Now the war was
over, the Peace Conference
ended, the Versailles Treaty
signed, and the League of
Nations had taken shape in a
fog of scepticism.
Among Henry’s friends I
found something of what I had
been looking for—analyses of
these events and their signifi-
cance, a cool estimation of the
prospects of the peace, and, in
particular, of the League ideas.
Only a simpleton could
befieve that all would be well
automatically if representatives
of all nations were assembled
under one roof; but at least
here was something more than
rhetorical gas, the practical
possibility of a move towards
the end of war.
I was fired with enthusiasm. Here was
a worthy cause.
Henry had, I think, a feeling that the
Russian Revolution would mellow into
experimental liberalism. He deplored the
Churchill expedition to Archangel in aid
of Denikin and Kolchak as wrong-
headed as well as immoral. His sympathy
in the Polish war was with Brussilov
rather than with Pilsudski.
Great happenings were afooti As the
“Hal Gye has an inspiration,” said
Low’s original caption.
world picture widened in the news my
interest deepened.
©NE bright morning, striding down
Collins-street to my studio, I ran
into Henry. He buttonholed me.
“David, how would you like to go to
London?” says he.
“Maybe,” says I. He showed me a
cable from the London “Daily News,”
asking him to negotiate with me about
joining its staff.
COOK HUGHES TUDOR
(together):
“Somebody’s going to be pushed out soon and
it’s not me!”
[In the political tangles after the 1916 (Conscription)
referendum a move was afoot to form a National War
Ministry, and Low here cartooned the top aspirants.].
Henry evidently expected me to be
surprised, so I obligingly was. But for
some months I had been studying the
British newspapers and shooting arrows
into the air in their direction. The
“Manchester Guardian” had already pro-
duced a number of my Hughes cartoons.
Following my early practice of making
the Post Office work for me, I had posted
olf about fifty copies of The Billy Book
to various key people in Britain, writers,
publicists and editors. Most of them
found their way, I have no doubt, into
the wastepaper-basket, but one fell into
the lap of Arnold Bennett, who wrote
a useful paragraph about it in the “New
Statesman.”
I had looked up the files and had read
closely and with approval A. G.
Gardiner’s leaders in the “Daily News”
about the Peace terms. I put him and
his managing-director, Henry Cadbury,
without their knowing it, on my posting-
list for a personal copy of The Bulletin
every week as a kind of remote hint. I
calculated from the look of their paper
and the look of their competitors that
they could do with a cartoonist.
So Henry’s cable was not entirely a
bolt from the blue.
I agreed. Jubilant, I continued my
walk. I met a journalist friend.
“I’m off to London,” I s^ys.
“How much 1 ?” he asks.
“Princely, my boy,” I says.
The newspapers next day served me
right:
PRINCELY SALARY
LOW LEAVES FOR LONDON
TT SOMETIMES talk too much. It was
£3o a week. Good, when a pound was
a pound, but not as good as all that. A
minor prince, perhaps. Or a dispossessed
prince.
It suddenly struck me that in all my
eight years in Australia I had been so
interested in the drawing and the politics
that I had forgotten to ask' for a rise. I
had had no contract and the piecework
terms and rates I ended with were those
at my beginning.
William Macleod now journeyed from
Sydney to offer me a packet of shares in
the paper to raise my income to £lOOO
a year. But, great as was my affection for
the old man and The Bulletin, I could
not have forgone my chance to go
a-roving if he had offered me the whole
paper. On the other hand, I would have
gone to London at half the money.
My “princely salary” haunted me for
quite a while. I found myself clasped
and congratulated by all sorts of people,
including many I did not know and
some whose approval was distinctly
unwelcome.
Feeling was not, however, unanimous.
My hostile critics reawakened to the
opportunity with zest. Readers of one
vituperative journal opined that the
“Daily News” would provide congenial
surroundings for me, since “had it pre-
vailed in war-time, the Britisher would
now be humbly walking in the London
gutter while the Prussian goose-stepped
on the sidewalk.” Readers of another
were informed that compliments from
Arnold Bennett to me meant
nothing, since he was poor
stuff himself.
I found myself again the
subject of unflattering news-
paper cartoons by other
fellows, showing me being
seduced away with heavy
bribes from my supposed job
of guarding The Bulletin’s
cash-box. “Smith’s Weekly,”
of Sydney, which was no
friend of mine, put the case
in a nutshell:
Mr. Low is out of place in White
and Anglo-Saxon Australia. He
will be thoroughly suited on the
Quaker paper to which he is
going. It hates Mr. Hughes and
loves the colored races. It
stands for Pacificism, brother-
hood of man, no Army, if possible
no Navy, in fact, for Defeatism
generally. It is welcome to Mr.
Low, and his works,
Tempers were not
improved by “Billywog.”
Among the facetious items I
had included in The Billy
Book was a design for a
Hughes toy, “Billywog,” with
instructions for use: “Blow
up with wind until head
expands, then release hole in
face, whereupon Billy will
emit loud noises until he goes
flat.”
A Sydney trader was fired
with the idea of manufactur-
ing “Billywog,” so I reduced
the idea to tangible form on
glove-puppet lines, modelled
a head of Hughes in plasticine
and sold him the puppet-rights outright.
In due course puppets of “Billywog”
appeared around and about at Billy’s
comings and goings, wagging, gesticu-
lating and mocking the indignant original
according to the mood of the wearer.
HDID not pack my bags to go without
sorrow at leaving many friends. As
a small boy the opinions, too often
contemptuous, of outsiders of my choice
of a profession had driven me into a
defensive solitariness. As a youth,
although I became gregarious'enough to
be socially at ease in the world, I had
continued to cultivate a private self-
sufficiency and was wary of complicating
loyalties and dependent friendships. In
my early twenties, when not in the
C. J. DENNIS
window, so to speak, I could stand my
own company for long stretches without
discontent.
But for all that, in those black depres-
sions which follow overconcentration,
when all work seems fruitless, bad, waste
of time, when the mind rattles like a pea
in a hollow drum, and confidence is
replaced by despair, I imagined with long-
ing a second self that could know what
one was at and estimate truly the success
or failure of the attempt.
At such times what a priceless boon
would be a clear-headed outside judge,
to whom one' could toss one’s piece with
“Good or bad?” and accept the verdict
with confidencefas from one familiar with
the conditions of creation.
In Melbourne I was fortunate enough
to count two. I shared a studio with
Hal Gye, a caricaturist, and C. J. Dennis,
poet, was our inseparable. Before settling
in Melbourne I lived as a fellow-lodger
with Den for a space, and finished my
{Continued on page 27)


Fftfjjt lH 'HvC'
Future
\
When I was talking recently to my friend Mr.
Hy Cox, of Peoria, Illinois (U.S.A.), he used the
expression “functional curiosity” to describe part
of the special branch of work on which he is
engaged.
I thought how admirably it fitted an engineer’s
vital approach to the study of the constant
improvements and modifications in modem
machinery.
And it occurred to me that “curiosity” is one
of the least-understood words in the language. Its
meaning embraces care and diligence. That is its
Latin derivation —cura: care. It is an attribute of
a searching mind.
Where would we be today in science and
invention were it not for the men and women whose
intellects have brought us out beyond the rims of
progressive achievement?
For some—the the Edisons, and back
along a brilliant line—the satisfying of curiosity
has led to a lasting fame. Through it all, lit by
flashes of genius, runs the stream of sound,
constructive thinking by people who are the doers
and the causers to be done —whether it be in science,
agriculture, mechanical engineering, or anything
else.
It is close to us. It is all around us.
The Minister in charge of the Commonwealth
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation,
Mr. R. G. Casey, was able to tell an international
conference at Canberra recently that Australian
research on the reduction of evaporation of stored
water has benefited every country in the world
that has a water shortage.
That gives our scientists a world rating, in
their departments. Plainly, it is the result of
“curiosity” —of the diligence reflected in laboratory
tests and field experiments. And as with that, so
with other work awaiting us as a nation.
My advice to our students, therefore, is to put
a questing note into their studies, whatever career
they may choose.
It is not so much what they can memorise from
books, but what they can contribute in original
thinking, that will make Australia great.
180
////asf^f s
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP
QUEENSLAND— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT LENTHAL STEPHEN for-
merly of Caravan Park Scott Street Haw-
thorne Brisbane in the State of Queensland
and C/o Kamel Stephen Ltd. of Pacific
Highway Raymond Terrace in the State of
New South Wales and Ballarat in the State
of Victoria whose present whereabouts are
unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that EDGAR
JAGO has commenced an action against
you and TERRENCE GEORGE GEARING
for damages for negligence No. 727 of
1956 If you wish to defend this action
you may enter an appearance if the
Registry of the Supreme Court of Queens-
land at Brisbane within Forty-four days
from the publication of this notice You
may obtain without charge a copy of the
Writ of Summons from MESSIEURS
CHAMBERS MeNAB & CO., Solicitors, of
33 Queen Street, Brisbane. —DATED this
Nineteenth day of December, 1956. —L.
CHRISTOPHERSON, Second Deputy
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Federal Matrimonial Cause.
TO RONALD ARTHUR DICKS late of
57 Pittwater Road Collaroy.—TAKE
NOTICE that BARBARA DICKS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3458 of 1950
on the ground of desertion without jus!
cause or excuse for three. years and up
wards and is asking for the exercise o.
the Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a;
of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 1
you wish to defend you may enter ar
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney b.'
Bth April 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from W. -4.
GILDER, SON & CO., Solicitors, 2"
Hunter Street, Sydney.—J, DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
SPORTING NOTIO NS
YO UR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
HE'S OFF!
TACK PURTELL is off to ride
** in England early in the New
Year for the stables of Noel
Cannon and H. C. Leader at
Newmarket, who have 70 horses
between them, some of them top-
notchers. '
Purtell is one of the best-
known, and best-respected,
citizens in Melbourne; rich,
retiring, pessimistic —if he’s
riding a hot favorite he may
stretch a point and concede
it a “fair cha n c e.” An
industrious and studious fellow
of 7st. 81b., he lives in a
simple but costly new house in
solid Brighton, spends his after-
noons-off in his wrought-iron
factory and his evenings with
books, preferably philosophy.
He has been Melbourne’s best
jockey for years—he wins the
jockeys’ premiership only occa-
sionally because he does not
ride for the bigger stables. In
other ways most undistinguished
in appearance, he wears his cap
so far forward at such an ugly
angle he can be seen furlongs
off: he sits up and forward in
such an ungainly style in a finish,
and he never makes the exciting
last-to-first run that (sometimes)
distinguishes other riders.
Instead, he rides exactly to
suit his personality. He likes to
ride close to the leaders and
be with them; despite his
appearance, he most often wins
close finishes ; he doesn’t wait
for a run on the rails or go
the long way round the leaders.
He waits for them to part, and
takes the middle course. Aside
from all that, he rides triers
only.
He won his first race as a
green apprentice at his third try,
and the horse, Bonus, led all the
way. The apprentice got up even
earlier than usual the next day
to see what the newspapers had
to say about the new Bobby
Lewis. Only one had noticed
him, and recorded: “Big Horse
Bolts with Small Jockey.”
Strapper.
• • • •
The A.J.C.’s £3lOO Summer
Cup (li mile), chief attraction
today (W ednesday) at
Randwick, dates Ijack to the late
1860’s. In most years it was
decided at 13 furlongs, but the
last three Cups have been run
at a mile-and-a-half. Well-
fancied horses have been success-
ful in it in recent years. Viteren,
at 5 to 1, landed the money last
year, beating the favorite,
Andonni, and Livorno. Lightly
weighted horses have won most
Cups.
• • • •
Summer Cup selections:
Prince Delville, 1; Beaupa, 2 ;
Spanish Fiesta, 3.
Some smart two-year-olds
should be in the line-up for the
second event of importance on
this afternoon’s Randwick pro-
gramme, the £l5OO December
Stakes (six furlongs). Turkestan
has done well in races and in
training, and should be hard to
beat.
• • • •
Due to be run at Randwick
this coming Saturday, Tatter-
sail’s £1750 Carrington Stakes
(six furlongs), first leg of the
club’s annual double, was last
year won by the favorite, Lind-
bergh, beating Apple Bay and
Spearby. Backers, in fact, have
picked the winner in the last
three seasons, the other success-
ful favorites being Gay Vista
(1954) and Karendi (1953).
Fastest time for the race —I.loi
—is shared by Pavilion (1930)
and Bernborough (1945).
In the early part of its history
Tattersall’s Club Cup (January 1)
was staged by the A.J.C., but
for the past 55 years the race has
been handled by Tattersall’s
Club and has been run at a
mile-and-a-half (early Cups were
decided at two miles). Most
winners of the race have come
from the group weighted
between 7st. and Bst. Dewar
(1942) holds the time-record,
2.30. W. Cook and N.
McGrowdie have each ridden
four winners of the race. Next
Tuesday’s Cup is worth £2OOO,
plus a £3OO Gold Cup. Blaze-
away, ridden by Arthur Clarke,
was successful in last January’s
Cup, beating Grand Stream and
the favorite, Prince Delville.
Bernie Howlett, 18, inden-
tured to Randwick trainer Frank.
McGrath, was dux of the
A.J.C. apprentices’ school for
1956. He received his ’prizes,
the Perkins Cup and the
Wootton Saddle, at the annual
ceremony at Randwick, presided
over by A.J.C. chairman A. G.
Potter. John Hannybel, 17,
runner-up, was handed the
Potter-Mackay Saddle, while
Ray George won the Bartle-
Munro Saddle. Other prize-
winners included R. Toovey, L.
Bridge, J. Hughes and D. Allen.
In the school, which has been
functioning for about 20 years,
Norman Larkin and stipendiary
steward Jack Gaxieu are in
charge of the young lads.
Average attendance is 45 from
an enrolment of 70. A veteran
trainer voiced the general
opinion that the A.J.C. should
make it compulsory for all
apprentices to attend the school.
• • • •
Randwick mentor Bill Kelso
passed on some sound advice to
budding horsemen in a brief
speech at the A.J.C. apprentices’
annual handout. “Don’t go for
the whip, lads!” he said. “The
leading jockeys” mentioning
names —“simply love to see you
trying to get that stick into play.
Ride with your hands and
heels.” Sound talking. Too
often have races been thrown
away by inexperienced
apprentices fumbling for the
whip and hindering rather than
assisting their mounts. Even
some of the jockeys riding their
share of winners are not expert
when it comes to bringing the
whip into play.
Sydney Turf Club will stage at
Rosehill on Saturday, April 6
next, possibly the richest day’s
racing in Australian history.
Chief drawcard will be the new
£lO,OOO (minimum) Golden
Slipper Stakes for two-year-olds,
run at six furlongs ; first accept-
ances, January 31. The £5OOO
S.T.C. Cup (ly mile), the weight-
for-age Rawson. Stakes (nine
furlongs) and the Quality Handi-
cap for top sprinters will be on
the same bill. The meeting will
be held one week prior to the
opening day of the A.J.C.’s
autumn carnival.
First of the progeny of
Tossing, a smart galloper on
Sydney tracks in recent seasons,
have arrived ; his 15 foals at
Mrs. L. Powell’s Willunga
property, Wellington (N.S.W.),
are promising types. Birdwood
—one of Sydney’s best sprinters,
and winner of the 1954 Oakleigh
Plate (run in record race-time
lmin. 4sec.) and the same year’s
Newmarket Handicap—is now
located at P. E. Brown’s
Randwick Lodge stud, Whitting-
ham (N.S.W.). Birdwood, a
handsome individual, is expected
to sire extra-smart sprinters.
• • • • ,
In a recent sprint at Rosehill a
prominent stable started two
horses - different ownership
and one, a hot favorite, missed
a place. The other, also strongly
supported, won. Tote-punters
lost a lot of money on the
favorite, beaten on its merits.
Had the stable pair been
bracketed as in other countries,
including New Zealand, those
who supported the short-priced
runner would have shown a
slight profit. This bracketing of
stablemates affects tote-bettors
only; punters who bet heavily
with bookmakers wouldn’t enter-
tain the idea. Anyway, for them
it wouldn’t be practicable. There
have been many instances on
Australian tracks of the stable
fancy finishing out of a place
and the stable’s “second leg”
winning, generally at elastic
odds.
The success of New Zealand
horses in Brisbane, Sydney and
Melbourne in recent seasons is
sure to have Australian buyers
operating to the limit at the
national sales of yearlings in
N.Z. next month, with keen
competition for the close
relatives of Rising. Fast, Dalray,
Monte Carlo, Gendarme, El
Khobar, Hot Spell and Prince
Cortauld.
+ 4-
Wicketkeeper Gil Langley now
also, like Miller and Johnson,
retires from first-class cricket.
Langley first got into the S.A.
team in 1945, but didn’t estab-
lish himself for another year or
so—as rover, he also about that
time repped for S.A. in football.
His first overseas tour was to
South Africa in 1949-50 as under-
study to Ron Saggers, and he got
his first big chance against South
Africa here in 1952-53 when
Tallon was out through injury
and Saggers (who earlier had
seemed destined to be Tallon's
successor) had had to give the
game away because of a serious
leg-injury. Langley seized his
chance, and when Tallon re-
turned the following year the
South Australian was preferred
against West Indies.
Since then Langley has been
Australia’s No. 1 ’keeper,
though Tallon regained his place
for one game, the first Test in
England in 1953, and Maddocks
got the job in three Tests against
Hutton’s side in 1954-55. (In
England this year Langley
missed two Tests through injury.)
More than one Australian bowler
has said that he preferred to
bowl with Langley behind the
sticks. Very safe, he took more
catches in Tests (83) than any
other Australian ’keeper, Old-
field, with one catch less, being
next-best. A likeable and
popular fellow, Langley was
handy with the bat, and his round
100 in his last first-class innings,
against N.S.W. the other day, was
a fitting farewell.
• • • •
The teams for the McCabe-
O’Reilly testimonial, beginning
in Sydney on January 5,
will be picked tomorrow night
(December 27). Here are a
few who’ve stood out in
this year’s Sheffield Shield:
Firstly there’s to be noted
N.S.W.’s three outright wins in
three games under the new
leadership of lan Craig; Craig’s
own batting (in par-
ticular his 155 in Perth); Bob
Simpson, now of W.A., after
some early failures, also batting
nicely, twice just missing his
century—but getting it (112 not-
out) in the second innings
against Q. in Perth ; left-hander
Shepherd, a couple of big scores
on W.A.’s Eastern States tour
(173 against Q- his best); young
O’Neill, of N.S.W., shaping
well; and Peter Burge, looking
as if next time he’ll become a
fixture in Australia’s Test side,
a couple of solid centuries.
• • • •
A double-century (206 ; highest
Shield score in Perth) by N.S.W.’s
Bill Watson, after a run of outs ;
another one (220, in Adelaide)
by Burke, after a “pair” against
W.A. in Sydney; some incon-
sistency, too, by Victorian bats-
man Shaw, nephew of Hassett—
but a couple of his knocks this
year stamping him as a batsman
of distinct promise; Loxton,
though probably past his best, a
hard-hitting 134 against S.A.;
Harvey in form ; Mackay, back
in the never-failing sheet-anchor
role for Queensland —why was
he only successful once in this
role in England? ; and N.S.W.
opener Carroll, a couple of
centuries in what amounts to an
undeservedly belated attempt at
higher honors. S.A.’s best bats-
man has been Gavin Stevens,
who regained a place in the side
this season after being dropped
for a year or so.
Among the bowlers, W.A.’s
medium-pacer Ray Strauss has
turned-in some of the best figures.
His team-mate Ron Gaunt, who’s
also had some success, is con-
sidered to be one of the fastest
bowlers in Australia. Other pace-
men of promise are Victoria’s
left-handed lan Meckiff and
S.A.’s Beagley, and there is also
Queensland’s handy all-rounder
Bratchford, who took 5-28
against Victoria. And of course
Ray Lindwall is still around,
and still fair enough. Queens-
land also possesses one of the
most promising of the young
spin-bowlers, Freeman ; another
spinner of whom his State holds
high hopes is Victorian left-
hander Kline. N.S.W. has three
good spin-bowlers, Benaud,
Treanor, who’s been picking-up
some handy wickets, and new-
comer Martin, a left-hander (and
useful batsman).


cartoons by night on his washstand while
he read proofs aloud in bed. After that,
Hal and I took our studio, and Hal
arranged to illustrate Den’s book. Thus
the association was confirmed.
Hal was a fantastic chap, thin, with
long hair parted in the middle, a way of
waving his arms about and an irresistible
wit. When he wasn’t drawing theatrical
caricatures for The Bulletin, or illus-
trating Den, he was painting watercolor
symphonies with a dreamy effect which
he produced by losing his temper with
them and putting them under the tap.
After the second jet of water the picture
almost disappeared, leaving plenty to the
imagination, which pleased mightily those
who had the imagination.
Den’s chief claim to fame at first was
that he was the author of the “Austra-
bloodylaise,” a vernacular piece known
far and wide in Australia, of which the
opening stanza gives the flavor:
Fellers of Australia, blokes and
coves and coots,
Pull yer bloody pants on, tie yer
bloody boots.
But he was then deep in the planning
of a volume, The Sentimental Bloke,
All changed, of course, since Low drew this — they’d now go by car.
which was to bring him wide fame and
an honored place in Australian poetry.
Meanwhile Den filled-in as a civil servant
complete with two-inch starched collar
and vest slip, an effect quite unsuited to
his bony-nosed Roman face.
JUT ERE were a couple of characters in
“ whose company I found rest and
understanding. We could laugh, shout,
sing, exult, mourn, curse the wrongdoer
in the open, as we. wrestled with our work.
(I was always one to talk to my work
as it came out on my old drawing-board
perched on a broken armchair.)
Our trio expanded into an odd mixture
of fellowship. Painters, poets and writers,
of course, actors, farmers, civil servants,
businessmen, politicians, an occasional
Cabinet Minister, and on one red-letter
day even Melba herself, the immortal
songbird.
All I remember of her was that she
was a bullying woman who ate a good
deal and swore a lot.
It was all one. Even on the blackest
days I found relief in that pool of good-
will. In no other company could I ever
have tried the experiment of sharing a
studio.-I have had many since, but all by
comparison have had a touch of
loneliness.
LIFE was not all travail. We had our
relaxation; but our studio was for
work, not play.
I worked an eight-hour—sometimes
ten-hour —day, and with evenings spent
moving around seeing people, it was a
busy life. Making a cartoon occupied
usually about three full days, two spent
in labor and one in removing the
appearance of labor.
Sometimes I wondered whether I was
not taking too much trouble. But when
l learned that the methods of Breughel,
Callot, Daumier, Gillray and the other
Old Masters of Caricature had been
similarly thorough, that Tenniel took two
or three days to make a “Punch” cartoon
and that Linley Sambourne kept a huge
picture-library and rooms full of “props”
and frequently set up models and photo-
graphed his compositions in advance, I
concluded that what had been good
enough for them was good enough for
me.
Old Macleod had a story about a young
artist that came to see him looking for
encouragement. “I’m very quick,” ,said
the aspirant; “I can do a drawing in
twenty minutes.” “We don’t want quick
drawings,” said old Mac. “We want
good drawings.”
THE passion for authenticity some-
times led to diversions. I remember
once having to draw a steamroller. A
steamroller is hard to “fake” convinc-
ingly, so I telephoned to the corporation
office asking where I could see one at
work.
The official was most obliging. He
inquired where my studio was and sent
one along. Soon, sure enough, a smoking
funnel appeared turning the corner, and
all I had to do was to lean out of my
window and draw it.
The driver was proud of being “took”
for The Bulletin, and drove like a
Government House chauffeur. Ido not
know whether the expense appeared in
the rates.
WE .used a lot of live models, and I
bought a lay . figure. Besides its
usefulness, I had romantic ideas about
every studio needing to have a lay figure.
Well, a lay figure comes in handy, if
you can stand it. The thing is so
damnably dead. Personally, when we
had ours I kept forgetting it was there
and having nervous jumps at finding a
foreign and sinister presence in the room.
I took a dislike to the fellow and we got
rid of him.
We had our “props,” too. I acquired
a stuffed British lion, a present from an
admirer who thought it might come in
handy for war-cartoons. It was of heroic
size, magnified in the stuffing and posed
in the attitude of one about to spring
upon the Christian martyrs. The morn-
ing after it arrived the unexpected
menace nearly killed the charlady with
fright. We had to get rid of him, too.
Too big, too disturbing.
At odd weekends, when the need for
fresh air asserted itself, we three would
shut up shop, assemble some tins of
beans and walk over the hills and far
away up to Den’s brokendown old house
at Toolangi (the same house which was
rebuilt magnificently in Den’s later
affluence to fulfil its destiny as
picturesque background when John
Masefield visited him about ten years
later). In those days we had to light the
fire carefully in the old range because a
snake lived there, and the only chance
of a bath was in an ice-cold waterhole
with crayfish on the bottom of it.
YOUNG, romantic, sitting in congenial
company on top of the wooded
wilderness in the open clear blue Aus-
tralian night listening to Den’s new gramo-
phone, the hills echoing back Lina
Cavalieri’s honey soprano pouring out
“O Sole Mio.” That filled the heart.
That was a taste of happiness.
Why leave it? Why tear myself up
by the roots again to start afresh in the
unknown? Money? Only fools think
of money as the supreme value. Fame?
Fame is an irritating and exasperating
thing that never comes for the right
reasons. Curiosity? I never could pass
the door of Opportunity without trying
the handle.
In my four years at Melbourne I had
acquired a fairly wide circle. There were
places and faces I was going to miss.
Tom, old Ed, Bob, Bradish, Ted, Hector,
Storky, Frank, Dan.....
Dan was an experience. I had lived
long enough to know that politics was
not the exclusive province of politicians.
I had become aware of mysterious shapes
in the sidelines, anonymous outsiders
engaged in vague activities concerned with
the working of democracy. Dan was one
of these. He was never seen in Parlia-
ment, but he had the entry to all the
political backrooms, and the way to get
into touch with a Minister was through
Dan.
This big, bluff, hard-bitten man exuded
a large geniality, I have no doubt with an
ulterior motive. Even my little quota
of influence was cultivated. I responded,
with my own ulterior motive. It was a
liberal education to move around in the
political jungle with Dan, spreading
Corona cigars, calling Ministers by their
Christian-names, throwing them a word
of praise or blame, slapping their backs,
and in general behaving as though he
had something on each one of them, but
would not use it unless he had to.
I never knew what Dan’s precise
function was. When I asked him he
always changed the subject. I heard him
described as an “organiser,” but of what
there was no clue. I assumed he was a
“fixer.” He was the nearest approach to
Personal Power I met in Australia. Such
a man should have been sinister, but,
surprisingly, he was not. Quite the
contrary. Everybody, including myself,
thought him a lovable character. ,
*TpHERE were my Parliamentary pals.
What about Hector Lamond of the
A.W.U., the friend of Billy, who was
also my friend? Hector, pink of face
and wild of eye, was a fanatic with tfie
tenacity of a bulldog with a mouthful of
trouser-leg when his passions were
aroused. Yet tears would start down his
cheek when he sat on our sofa, full of my
mother’s soup, listening to my sister
mournfully singing a saccharine ditty like
“Little Grey Home in the West.”
Farewell goes out sighing.
I would miss my own particular
familiars of Collins-street. Old Cham-
pion, say. Where do wild Social
Democrats go in the winter-time? Who
in 1915 would have identified the mild
old gentleman, editor of a tiny literary
monthly, walking tremulously, with the
aid of two sticks in the Melbourne sun-
shine, with the determined young
ex-artillery-officer H. H. Champion, of
the 1880’s, who introduced John Burns
and Keir Hardie to political life, and
who with Burns and Hyndman led a
riotous mob of unemployed through
Loncjon’s Clubland, leaving a trail of
broken windows? No one, I wager.
Illness, disappointment and age had long
since withdrawn Champion from politics
to books. But he retained an interest in
justice and right.
Whenever I did a cartoon which in
content departed from the strictly sane
view I was sure next day to run into
Champion, advancing slowly down the
street like a conscience. He would stop,
look me in the eye, smile gently and say,
“Not quite, David, do you think . . .?”
Very effective criticism, coming from the
old war-horse.
Fare thee well! and if for ever....
f TpHE politics of peace were reasserting
themselves in Australia as I departed.
The people were obviously sick of war,
Europe and foreigners. The intricacies
of world politics were receding again
before more evident troubles at home.
Labor leadership was weak and nega-
tive. People began to ask themselves if
Labor as an organised force was proving
itself a political and moral failure.
Politically it had, for the time being.
The assertion of its moral failure was,
JOYNTON SMITH
" Smith’s Weekly” didn’t like Low —
maybe fie wasn’t a stwong enough
bawacker for the Bwitish Empwiah.
as usual, loudest from those who held it
as a dogma that the responsibility of the
worker to society was to work, to dig,
shunt, stoke and lump to the glory of
God and the happiness of his betters.
Both ends of the social and political
scale have their narrow reactionaries, and
your stupid Left-winger is. only your
stupid Right-winger with a different hat
on. Mobs, rich or poor, are equally
capable of rising or falling to an
occasion, according to the active spirits
which inspire them at the moment.
With weak leadership on the Left, and
a determination to stand no nonsense on
the Right, when the war-clamps were
removed the impelling visions of a better
life of love and opportunity all went into
cold-storage.' Faces on the Right grew
harder. On the Left the old revolt against
the divorce of politics from ethics lost
dignity and began to look like a rising
of mutinous slaves.
I was impelled to close my Australian
career with the publication of an
exasperated “Message to Everybody”
(B. 23/10/’l9). A somewhat naive and
turgid ebullition which might have been
expressed better by the old lady who said,
“How much nicer everything would be
if only people were nice to one another.”
I had the grace to end it with the hope
that I should not be regarded as a hostile
critic of the land that had been a/home
to me for eight years.
(To be continued next week)
A David Low joke-block for The Bulletin —on the jockey wasting 9½lb. to take
the mount, and the punter wasting fifteen-pounds backing the cert.


AN Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
A-N-Z
* *
ABRIDGED STATEMENT OF
AGGREGATE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
OF THE TWO BANKS.
(excluding inter-bank balances)
30th SEPTEMBER, 1956.
(Expressed in Australian Currency)
ASSETS £A
Cash in hand and balances with Bankers 30,695,194
Cheques of other Banks 11,730,167
Money at cajl 3,200,250
Treasury Bills 7,540,607
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 37,483,000
Investments 44,224,699
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 56,160,822
Loans and Advances to Customers and
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances
and other Engagements .. •• 30,189,751
Bank Premises 8,154,538
£A423,479,045
LIABILITIES £A
Paid-up Capital 12,801,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss
Account Balance 10,355,476
Current, Deposit and other Accounts .. 370,132,818
Acceptances and other Engagements for
Customers 30,189,751
£A423,479,045
Over 875 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua, and New Guinea
and in London. A
Hugh D. T. Williamson, General Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HUNGARY
British and u.s. press-
comment on - the Soviet’s
ruthless suppression of Hungary
—this “terrible portent for the
world,” as Sir Anthony Eden
described it:
“Christian Science Monitor ” :
“If ever an attack wasTaunched
‘with the aim of restoring
colonial rule which had been
overthrown by the people,’ to use
a phrase from the Bulganin
letter about Egypt, the Soviet
resubjugation of Hungary cer-
tainly fits that description.”
* * *
Paul Ignotus, who escaped
from Hungary, in an interview
with London “New Statesman” :
“The rising was started, as far
as I could see, by two centres of
intellectuals: (1) the Hungarian
Writers’ Association, in which
Communist authors such as the
novelist Dery had for a long time
fought Stalinism very bravely,
and (2) the association of
Communist undergraduates, the
Petofi Club. It was they who,
inspired by the Polish example,
went into the streets and pro-
claimed that the Hungarian
people must act decisively to
bring about Socialist democracy
and liquidate the remnants of
the Rakosi dictatorship.
“These were joined by people
of all sorts and especially the
industrial workers. The latter
were in fact most intransigent in
their fight against Muscovite
rulers, and since then they have
continued to fight, either with
arms or with strikes and
sabotage, although other sections
of the population seemed ready
to accept a fait accompli. In the
democratic national revolution
which started with the rising the
whole population took part.”
* * H= ,
Karel Norsky, in “Manchester
Guardian”: “There is an im-
pressive unanimity among the
refugees that the fight in
Hungary will go on regardless
of cost. Indeed, after dealing
with Hungarian questions even
for a few days one is left with
the impression that there is a
nation of 10-million miniature
Churchills. There is also agree-
ment among the refugees that
the best help that can come from
abroad is moral leadership exer-
cised by the United States
through the United Nations.”
* * *
London “Economist”: “The
most convenient feature of the
Hungarian exodus is that the
young and able-bodied are
heavily represented in it. These
were the groups most actively
concerned in the fighting, are
mostly without dependants, and
had strength to reach the
frontier. So far as can be seen,
well over 60 per cent, are
teenage youths and young men
of working-age. They cover
every walk of Hungarian
working-life. There* is a sub-
stantial proportion of industrial
workers, skilled and unskilled,
but few peasants. Although in
terms of broken families, of
fathers separated from wives
and children, and young boys
sent out on their own, this
implies many personal tragedies,
it does facilitate the task of
absorbing them into British life.
They are a migrant working-
group rather than a typical
refugee-group, in which the old,
infirm and professional element
usually tend to predominate.”
The same: “In terms of
population, the number of
Hungarians to be absorbed [in
Britain] is, over a period, small
—but it comes on top of
immigration from elsewhere,
including the coloniesthe
British refugees expected from
Egypt should enjoy the same
care as the Hungarians, and
there may be 5000 of them. The
Government and . local
authorities will have to take all
this into account in their plans
for housing. There will be other
problems, educational, cultural
and, indeed, even political—for
the young Hungarians have their
minds formed in an entirely
different mould of ideas, even
though their detestation of
Russia is profound, and their
love of liberty evidently
irrepressible. But. in all but the
special need for speed, these
‘melting-pot’ problems are ones
in which the British are fully
versed ; the Hungarians are only
the latest in a long series of
refugee contingents who have
both diversified and enriched the
complex fabric of British life.
Their record suggests that they
will enrich it indeed.”
* * *
Walter Lippmann, in New
York “Herald Tribune” : “There
can be few in this country [the
U.S.] "who have not felt how
sharp is the contrast between
what we have been saying about
Hungary and what we are doing.
The stark and brutal fact of the
situation is that Hungary lies
wholly within the iron grip of
the Red Army, and that neither
we nor our allies in the Atlantic
alliance have the means to
intervene and to challenge the
Red Army.”
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “In Hungary we have
a classic case of a nation
enslaved by foreign troops while
its people resist with every
means at their command. Is
there nothing that the United
Nations can do? Why does not
the United Nations at least
repudiate the puppet representa-
tive of Hungary and recognise
the real fact that no true repre-
sentative of Hungary is at its
session?”
The same: “The hard truth is
that the heroism of the
Hungarian people in the cause
of freedom has not been
matched by courage or deter-
mination or effectiveness on the
part of the nations of the free
world or on the part of the
United Nations.”
The same: “U.N. observers
could interview some of the
100,000 refugees who have fled
to Austria. They could inter-
view the correspondents who
were in Hungary during the
active phase of the revolution.
They could examine, the avail-
able documentary record of
these past weeks. If the Soviet
Union protests that this evidence
is ‘one-sided,’ then the clear
answer is that it is the Soviet
Union alone which fears and
prevents the entrance of U.N.
observers into Hungary.”
* * *
Anna Kethly, leader of
Hungary’s Social Democratic
Party and formerly a member
of Imre Nagy’s Cabinet, in, a
letter to “New York Times”:
“Had the U.N. acted upon the
aggression committed against
Hungary with a speed and
singleness of purpose comparable
to its intervention in the Middle
East, had it formulated its policy
as clearly and unequivocally, no
doubt would now surround the
issue, which is, quite simply,
this:
“Instead of complying with
the U.N. resolution of November
4 the U.S.S.R., a permanent
member of the Security Council,
has not only refused to with-
draw its troops but has imposed
a military regime upon Hungary.
Shielded by Russian military
might, a puppet-Government
has been set up which, it is
generally agreed, would not last
a single day in a free Hungary.
Nonetheless, this Government’s
representative has so far been
permitted to masquerade as a
bona fide U.N. delegate.”
* * 9
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“It [U.N.] is also devoid of the
slightest claim to embody the
moral conscience of the world.
Its delegations vote according to
the instructions of their Gov-
ernments and not according to
the personal opinions of their
barred. The aim should be to
prove to the Soviet leaders, over
a period of time, that they have
less to lose from negotiating a
settlement.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times’: “If
‘workers’ government,’ given 10
years to liquidate its enemies,
prove its inevitability and begin
its miracles, cannot commend
itself to a country close to
Soviet Russia and under its
benevolent wing, but has to fight
Washington "ost and Times Herald”
“I'LL BE GLAD TO RESTORE PEACE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST, TOO”
members. But let us at least
recognise our failure to help
Hungary, without cant.
“To write, as the Archbishop
of Canterbury has done, that ‘the
united moral conscience of man-
kind has been more effective to
aid Hungary than any armed
intervention at this moment
could have been’ may be no
more than nonsense: the united
moral conscience of mankind
does not exist.
“But to go on to say that ‘it
may perhaps even be compelling
Russia to pause’ must sound
heartless and cynical to the
people in Hungary themselves.
There is no sign of a pause. On
the contrary, all the signs are
that the Russians are replacing
their pre-revolution garrison
with froops from Asiatic Russia
less likely to be sympathetic.”
* * *
Hugh Seton-Watson, Professor
of Russian History at London
University, in a London “Spec-
tator” article: “The task of
Western policy is now not so
much to convince the rulers in
Moscow that they would gain
from a settlement, as to make
the present situation intolerable
to them. There are many ways
in which the West can be beastly
to the Soviet leaders. Every type
of boycott, diplomatic pressure
and propaganda should be con-
sidered.
“It is particularly important to
exploit the low morale of the
Soviet Army, and to show the
Soviet intelligentsia that the
Soviet Union is a moral pariah
in the whole world, and especi-
ally in Europe, and why.
“The only reasons for rejecting
any measure should be either
that it would not be effective
or that there was a serious danger
that it would precipitate the
world war which it is the aim of
Western policy to prevent.
Otherwise no holds should be
for survival against the workers
themselves, how can it be
presented as not only good but
inevitable to the people of Italy
or Egypt, India or the Argentine?
Henceforward it is not capitalist
democracy that will be on the
defensive against the inevitability
of history but Communist
dictatorship. The initiative has
been wrested: an idea has been
destroyed.”
U.N.O. or Not
Two views (condensed) on
two sides of the question:
“Diogenes,” in London “Time
and Tide” :
“Until now it [U.N.O.] has
been, in respect of the task of
keeping the world in a
complete failure.
“The only time U.N.O. has
functioned to some purpose was
on Korea. It was able to do
so then only because (a) the
Russians, having walked out of
the Security Council in a huff
some time before, were not there
to exercise their veto, and ( b )
because America wanted action.
“But for the temporary
absence of the Russians,
America would have had to
face the issue of whether to let
Korea go by default, or to act
on her own. Does anyone
believe that America would have
allowed Korea to go by default?
Her interests in Asia were far
too great for that.
“The movement of world
events demands clear policies
and sometimes swift and stern
decisions. I have never known
anything to emerge from a com-
mittee but a blur ; and the
Assembly of the United Nations
is worse than a committee. It is
a mass-meeting.
“Decisions have to be taken
by individual men, by individual


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
, ; . ; . f.
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’, to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . .
ADDRESS
12 months £2/Q/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Powers. Not to take them when
need be, but to allow them to be
bogged-down for weeks, months
and years on end in U.N.0., is in
effect to decide in favor of the
enemy.
“We must face the blunt truth
about U.N.O. It can, when
pushed, take action on ‘little
wars,’ though the odds are that
the action will be ineffective and
may do more harm than good.
But in respect of great issues it
can function only with the con-
sent of the two great Power
blocs, the Russian and • the
American, which now dominate
the world.
“In short, it can function "only
if the enemies are allies. It
could be pushed into action on
Egypt. On the mass-mifrder in
Hungary it could do nothing but
bleat.
“This situation within U.N.O.
is not a temporary or accidental
thing; it is a permanent condi-
tion. For any combination to
act effectively, there must be
underlying agreement as to pur-
pose. That underlying agreement
is absent from U.N.O;
“Our interests would be better
served by an alliance with other
Powers with similar interests
and a similar philosophy, not
bound by the ‘perfectionist’ rules
of an ineffective U.N.O. Those
rules were drafted on assump-
tions which have been utterly
disproved, are being disproved
and will continue to be dis-
proved. In any reappraisal of
our position we must face that
elementary fact.”
London “Economist” editorial
opinion: “During the next few
months there will undoubtedly
be louder complaints than ever
from various quarters in Britain
about the lopsided way the
[U.N.O.] Assembly operates,
about its preference for pulling
the tail of a retreating Western
Imperialism when it should be
girding its loins against the
danger of the Communist
advance.
“The cynical may say that
Britain and France have at last
given the Asian-African group
some justification for its oft-told
tales of Western wickedness,
and that it ought to be pleased
at finding that it was right all
along.
“But many a man in the
British street, contrasting the
way the Assembly keeps up the
pressure on his Government with
its lack of effectiveness in the
matter of saving Hungary from
Russia’s grip, will be inclined to
ask whether things would not
go better if the whole elaborate
affair were scrapped.
“There is a simple answer to
that question. The Assembly
exists. Even if Britain and
France took the drastic step of
withdrawing from the U.N,
altogether, the organisation
would survive. It is not an
impartial judiciary; it has no
means of securing enforcement
of its decisions; even the moral
force of its verdicts is impaired
by the fact that they are
obviously the result of an inter-
play of sectional interests (as are
the decisions of national Parlia-
ments).
“But, to adapt a phrase of
Mr. Butler’s, it is the best world
forum we have. To flout it, or,
worse, to boycott it, would be
to turn - down innumerable
opportunities of exerting influ-
ence. Even the Russians, when
they found themselves voted
down by huge majorities time
after time in earlier Assemblies,
were never unwise enough to
stage more than a brief walkout
(and even that did not pay
them).
“It may be easier for a nation
that finds itself condemned by
the great majority of its fellows
to shed some of its illusions and,
from the ‘sinner’s’ point of view,
to see the Assembly more clearly
for what it really is.
“What would be inexcusable
would be to pretend that the
Assembly does not exist and to
throw away the opportunities it
offers for aligning national
policy with the policies of as
many other nations as possible
»-or at least, when that course
is barred, for explaining national
policy with sincerity and
patience to a unique audience
whose members, whatever else
divides them, have a general
interest in peace.”
Syria
Syria, sitting on Israel’s
northern border and driving up
like a wedge between the two
Baghdad Pact countries, Turkey
and Irak, is, with its steady
build-up of Communist arms,
commonly tipped as the next
most likely trouble-spot in the
Middle East.
Within handy distance of the
U.S.S.R., strategically placed for
trouble-making in three of the
West’s few remaining friends in
the Middle East, and straddling
vital oil-pipelines, the country
has, by all reports, been going
steadily Communist for a long
time.
Among several commentators,
Sefton Delmer notes in London
“Daily Express” that in many
visits to the Middle East he has
been “forcibly impressed by the
progress made by the Soviet in
Syria since the war as compared
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
STAKING A NEW CLAIM
with the other Middle Eastern
States”:
“Only since the advent of
Nasser to Egypt has Syria been
seriously challenged as the most
important secret satellite of
Moscow in the Middle East.”
A “Manchester Guardian”
summing-up sees Syria as “the
home of Arab nationalism in its
least restricted form”:
“Syria is proud of having
extricated itself from France, and
of having no commitments to any
Western Power. From this came
its unwillingness to join the
Baghdad alliance. Its President
believes that Syria’s strength can
be increased by obtaining arms
from Russia, very’ cheaply, and
believes that this can be done
without passing under Russian
control.
“The genuine Syrian nation-
alists doubtless share his confi-
dence. But the Syrian Communist
party is the best-organised Com-
munist party in the Middle East
and it holds key positions in the
Syrian 4rmy: out of the inter-
national rivalries in the Middle
East it may hope to come to
power, if not at once at least
in the not too distant future.”
To which Edinburgh “Scots-
man” adds that “Syria is now
undoubtedly the most promising
point of penetration for Soviet
subversive activity in the Middle
East”:
“Syria has an excellent
strategic situation. She is the
terminal of the main pipeline
supplying Britain’s oil, yet
because she is still predominantly
an agricultural country, and has
recently made a series of barter
trade-agreements with the Com-
munist countries, she is less
dependent than most of the other
Arab States on oil revenues.
“Also, the internal political
situation in Syria is ideal for the
Soviet purpose. The Army is
the only effective force in Syrian
politics. The nominal Govern-
ment has little real control.
Martial law is in force, and the
Army controls not only the
internal-security forces but also
the press apd radio through the
propaganda-department.
“There is strong Communist
support in the Army, and the
young officers, excited by
Nasser’s successful military coup
in Egypt, and hysterically hostile
to Israel and to the West, hre
.just the men to swallow the
Soviet bait and then find them-
selves in the Soviet trap.”
Commenting on this Com-
munist influence in the Syrian
Army, London “Economist”
describes its head, Colonel
Abdul Hamid Sarraj, as “about
as near to Communism as one
can be without actually carrying
a party-card.”
The same paper continues,
however, that it is the internal
political trend in Syria, rather
than the arrival of Soviet arms,
that is the immediate danger:
‘‘The arms situation needs to
be looked at in a perspective
which too few people vouchsafe
to it. Whatever is coming in, the
Syrians are even less able to use
the material than the Egyptians
were, and their training in its use
and maintenance will take years.
“What stands to reason is that
unless the Russians want to use
the goods themselves (which'
they did not do in Egypt, or the
collapse on the first two days
of the Israel attack must have
been less complete) they are
unlikely to hand out large
quantities of arms to an even
less efficient but equally over-
confident Army. To do so
would be to run the risk of
watching Syria surrender
another huge consignment to
better-led soldiers (Israelis, for
example, or Turks).
“What seems likeliest is that
the Russians will supply just
enough to keep Colonel
Sarraj and his political friends
in the local lead. Part of the
programme will be to rock the
Government of Irak by creating
instability along the major Iraki
line of oil-export. The consolida-
tion of the Left-wing grip on
Syria would leave the country
at the mercy of Soviet exploita-
tion long after the dust had
settled at Suez, Sinai and Gaza.”
The Soviet’s long-term aim,
Joseph and Stewart Alsop sug-
gest in New York “Herald
Tribune,” is the final destruction
of British power—the efforts to
strangle the oil-lines across Syria
“amount in fact to a joint
Egyptian-Soviet push to destroy
Britain once and for all as a
great Power, and even as a
viable economy.”
Editorially, the “Herald
Tribune” comments that “a
strategic situation from which
Soviet air-forces could menace
the whole Middle East, a
geographic situation which gives
Syria control over several vital
pipelines, and a political situa-
tion in which a fundamentally,
unstable Government has
designs on its neighbors means
that an explosion might come at
Any time.
“This is precisely the kind of
potential crisis in which the co-
operation of the United States,
Great Britain and France should
be assured—before the need for
action arises.”
On much the same line, “New
York Times” comments that
“since we [the U.S.] have elected
to play the game through the
United Nations, our leadership
will have to be exercised there.
Syria, like Russia, is working
both in and out of the United
Nations. She will have to be
watched closely by the free
world. A nation that works for
and with Russia in a situation as
critical as the Middle East is a
menace.”
C. L. Sulzberger, “New York
Times” foreign-affairs writer,
suggests further that the Soviet
threat in the Middle East can
best be met by the U.S. joining
the Baghdad Pact, which it
invented but did not join:
“By participating in the
Baghdad alliance we would be
close at hand should Russia do
anything so dangerous as to
send military ‘volunteers’ to
Syria or Egypt. In the past,
when areas vital to us were
threatened by Communist force
—as in Formosa—we had
alliances permitting us legally to
intervene without infringing on
regional sovereignty. Associa-
tion with the Baghdad Pact
would henceforth offer such an
excuse in the Middle East.”
Supporting that Sulzberger
view, London “Daily Telegraph”
comments that “Russian pene-
tration of the Middle East
challenges U.S. policy at every
point—as a Nato ally of Turkey ;
as architect of the Northern Tier
now overleaped by Soviet
control of Syria; and as signa-
tory of the Tripartite Declara-
tion designed to keep the flow
of arms within safe bounds.
Has this policy been totally
abandoned?
“The most reasonable assump-
tion is that by joining the Afro-
Asians in denouncing Britain
and France Mr. Eisenhower
hopes to retrieve Western influ-
ence in the Middle East.
“There is indeed one con-
structive move that might be
made in this direction: by
becoming a full member of the
Baghdad Pact the United States
could immensely fortify this
alliance and at the same time
serve warning to the Russians.”
Various Voices
Mr. Dulles: “It would be a
great mistake to believe that
stability and tranquillity can be
permanently established merely
by emergency measures to stop
the fighting [in Egypt]. It is
necessary to attack the basic
problems of the area. The many
nations which want peace must
also be prepared to struggle for
the conditions necessary for a
just and durable peace.’*
Mr. Nehru: “Whatever argu-
ment there may be for Soviet
intervention in Hungary, one
thing is clear. The Soviet Army
was there against the will of the
people. Soviet intervention in
Hungary has powerfully affected
the prestige of the Soviet Union
and her people.”
Denis Healey (British Labor
M.P.): “The [British] Govern-
ment’s action during the last four
weeks is the biggest free gift to
Communist propaganda since
the war. If [the Foreign Secre-
tary] is so concerned to draw
some credit from the catastrophe
would he consider putting for-
ward the Prime Minister’s name
for the Nobel Peace Prize on
the ground that he has given a
conclusive demonstration that
aggression does not pay?”
A young Hungarian refugee :
“Tell the West not to be afraid
of the Russians. The troops
they sent against us were
cowardly and weak. If help had
reached us in time we could
have beaten them.”
Mr. Selwyn Lloyd: “When
the balance-sheet of this [Suez]
affair is made up in two or three
years’ time there may be a very
different assessment from that
now expressed by most of the
delegations at the United
Nations.”
Lord Home, on the same
theme: “The stout Common-
wealth fabric has stood the
strain.”
Prime Minister Eden : “It is
futile to speak of the rule of
law unless* there is not only the
will but also the means to
uphold it. If we renounce the
use of force when law cannot
command order, then we are in
fact undermining the rule of law.
We are leaving the world open
to the lawbreakers.”
Secretary of the U.S. Air
Force, Donald Quarles: “There
are two essential elements to the
strategic position of the free
world. One is to maintain a
powerful retaliatory force that
is constantly ready to respond
to aggression. The other is to
maintain enough strength around
the periphery to thwart the
Communists in their covert
tactics of infiltration and sub-
version, and thus to force any
aggressors out into the open
where mutual defence-measures
can be invoked and where the
evidence of their aggressive
intent will be clear to all the
world.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Quality
The comments upon the growth of the
public service (B. 12/12/’56) may be
arithmetically correct, but, like previous
criticisms of the same order, are mis-
leading and superficial.
_ Surely it is time somebody commented
upon the decline in the quality of our
human resources? And who better than
The Bulletin to do this job?
On another page of the same issue we
learn that cartoonist Low left school at
the age of 11, and we are about to learn
that this lack of schooling proved no bar
to his progress in the world.
It needs little reflection to note that the
proportion of men with Low’s intelligence,
energy and aggressive instincts in the
community is either static or is declining.
With full employment, the lower orders
of the public service are swelling with
people whose attitudes aptitudes are
the reverse of Low’s. And even in high
places we find education being made a
substitute for these active qualities.
I don’t profess to know how society
can measure each individual’s rating, but
I do ask you to take these differences into
account. We have been laboring for
much too long under the Socialist con-
ception of equalitarianism, which
counts nations and individuals as units
without regard for character or
conscience.— lan Allan (N.S.W.).
Olympics
The success of our team at the Olympic
Games suggests that the international
Olympic rules should be revised to
provide for the holding of the Games in
the Southern Hemisphere at least every
third or fourth Olympiad.
For 60 years our team and other
Southern Hemisphere teams have com-
peted in the Northern Hemisphere out
of season and without time to acclimatise,
and for a very modest tally of medals.
Now, in running third to the U.S.A.
and Russia, we have shown that a
Southern Hemisphere team in its own
country and its own season, and with
time for proper preparation, can more
than hold its own.
South Africa, New Zealand, South
America and Australia all have cities
quite capable of staging the games. Of
course a city must apply for the Games,
but once the rules were altered to give
them a chance many Southern
Hemisphere cities would show as much
initiative as Melbourne.—Ess (Vic.).
Why No Money?
It’s enough to make even the most
conservative ask if it isn’t time our
financial system was overhauled, when
we read of a farming district such as
Orchard Hills, about 30 miles from
Sydney, being without water because the
existing mains are too small to build-up
the supply, and, in the words of the
Water Board’s chief-engineer, “there is
no finance to lay larger ones.”
Years ago we used to speak of
“money,” but now it is always referred
to as “finance,” presumably to make ,the
man-in-the-street think there is some
difference between the two terms —that
while money may be plentiful, there is
no “finance” to carry out certain much-
needed public works.
But, be it money or finance, the
question which demands answer is: why
is it not available for undertakings the
people need? We are short of roads,
bridges, , schools, hospitals, irrigation-
dams and a host of other amenities for
which civilised peoples are clamoring,
simply because, under our crazy financial
system, only so much money can be
made available during each financial
year.
That is bad enough, but when we know
that a goodly portion of such money is
spent on frills rather than necessities,
even the most dyed-in-the-wool upholder
of the present system might well cry out
for a change. What are our economists
doing that they have not shown the
various Governments the folly and
inflated cost of allowing public works to
drag out over a period of years instead
of being completed promptly?
The real test should fie whether a work
is necessary or not; if it is, money should
be made available for its completion in
the shortest possible time, without, of
course, incurring penalty-rates or over-
time. An undertaking that is allowed to
drag on over a period of years, as so
many are, is either begun before its time
or else the people requiring it are deprived
of its use for an unreasonably long
period.
The only excuse for allowing public
works to drag on over a period of years
is that employment fen them is more-or-
less stabilised, but as there are so many
undertakings waiting, that is a poor
consolation to the general public.
It isn’t so much that we are short of
money, even under our present system,
as the long-drawn-out way in which we
spend it. In a period of rising costs this
inevitably means that original estimates
are often doubled or even trebled. I
can’t think of any more effective way of
wasting public money.— M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
Road Safety
As “T.K. Ill” says of cars and drivers
(B. 5/12/’56), “every machine carries the
obligation of care and restraint in its use.”
Statistics on the causes of road-
accidents show clearly that lack of due
care and restraint is largely responsible
for casualties, indicating that the real
problem is less one of education, in the
technical sense, than of convincing every
person who takes the wheel of a vehicle
that he has a heavy responsibility towards
his passengers and other road-users.
Possibly the average tuition is too short
—novice drivers are inclined to boast
about how few lessons they had before
taking out their licence. It might meet
“T.K. Ill’s” requirements for basic train-
ing if, as I suggested previously («B.
3/ 8 / ’55), all driving-licences were made
provisional, the holders being required
to submit themselves for further, tests
after, say, six months.
As I pointed out then, however, no
statistical evidence is available as to the
relation, if any, between length of driving-
experience and road-accidents. Observa-
tion suggests that the novice driver is
usually careful and scrupulously obedient
to traffic-rules. The really dangerous
fellows are those who are temperamentally
unfit to drive —the man who takes too
many drinks, the speedster,' the selfish
fool who expects everyone else to give
way, and the man who is simply careless
and inattentive.
Unfortunately these defects of tempera-
ment are not usually revealed in a licence-
test, when the driver is naturally on his
best behavior, but they show up sooner
or later in his record of accidents and
convictions. It would seem plain com-
monsense to make renewal of licences
dependent on the driver’s record, and
to make penalties progressively stiffer.
This would keep bad and negligent
“I hale these formal affairs."
drivers off the road altogether.—Wuss-
lean (Vic.).
It should be more widely appreciated
that people cannot be taught to drive
cars by advertisements. Pedestrians can,
perhaps, be persuaded to look both ways
before stepping off the kerb, but pious
platitudes about driving carefully will
never produce better driving. That has
to be taught.
Probably the most important move in
this direction in Australia has been the
“Fill her up , mate; it's my last chance."
Victorian decision to establish a police
driving-school on the pattern of the
London Metropolitan Police driving-
school at Hendon. By teaching the police
to drive to what they call a system, they
have succeeded in reducing accidents to
their vehicles from one in 8000 miles
to one in 70,000 miles, and there is no
reason why the same system should not
be taught to all drivers in Australia.
This might be difficult with existing
drivers —most of them don’t realise that
they need teaching—but if all the propa-
ganda put out on road-safety were directed
to persuading them to learn the “Hendon
system” something might be achieved.
Therq, is a suitable textbook available in
the instructors’ manual for the Hendon
school. It is on sale in England under
the title Road Craft, but it would be
advisable, because of the differences in
regulations, to produce an Australian
version. That should not be difficult.
Legislation “to restrain the careless and
the reckless” are not the solution to the
road problem. Without the co-operation
of drivers, such legislation would need
a vast army of police to enforce it. It
would be infinitely better to teach road-
users to observe safety precautions at all
times and not only when under the eye of
the police.
While possibly the most important,
driver-education is not the only factor in
road-safety. The careless pedestrian
causes a high percentage of accidents,
and experience overseas indicates that a
lot can be done by improving the road-
systems. That is becoming a pressing
need in Australia.
The classification of causes of accidents
is always a little suspect, since it is often
made on inadequate information,
Another point is that “failing to give
right of way” is one of the listed causes,
but “insisting on right of way” is nBt
mentioned. The driver with the “last
opportunity” should take the action
necessary to avoid an accident, but too
often, when he has the right of way, he
fails to do so. — Insurance (Vic.).
Power Across the Channel
In his reference to the exchange of
electrical power between France and
Britain “Transporticus” (B. 5/12/’56)
does not mention that one of the factors
put forward when the scheme was
suggested after World War II was the
difference between French and English
eating-habits.
Household demands reach their peak
at different times of day in the two
countries. It was felt that if the English
housewife could be supplied with French
power to cook breakfast this would be
preferable to imposing power-cuts on
domestic supply. And vice versa, of
course. —Tabba (Q.).
Senior Citizens
As the expectation of life increases, so
the problem of dealing with elderly people
needs increasing consideration.
Pensions and charitable schemes have
their important place, but more is needed
to bring happiness and comfort to the
aged. >v At the same time, from an
economic point of view, it is essential to
get the best value for the nation.
That raises the question of retiring-
age and the more-or-less established prac-
tice in most organisations of replacing
staff at 65 years of age. At this age the
mental capacity and drive of men vary
so much that no set rule can be laid
down. The circumstances of each
individual call for different assessments.
Today many men on being retired imme-
diately take-over other posts and do very
well, but their experience, knowledge and
know-how are thus lost to their original
firm.
There are many problems, not the least
being the fact that old men often become
most conservative and will not allow
modern methods and ideas to prevail. On
the other hand, their long association with
a particular enterprise can be most
valuable.
One of the troubles of age is to keep
people interested and in some way
employed, and research specialists should
look for means whereby our senior citi-
zens, especially those in poor circum-
stances, can get jobs and earn a little
money.
This huge reservoir of labor could, if
rightly organised, be very useful in
increasing this country’s production. —
C.B.M. (N.S.W.).
One of the most difficult social
and political problems, adequate care
for the elderly and aged, is being
handled in many places by a com-
bination of self-help and private initiative,
but seldom with the vigor and success
marking the Over 50’s Association of Vic-
toria, of which the president and chief
mover is S. M. Gilmour, who for most
of his time is also secretary of the Vic-
torian Employers’ Federation. 'The asso-
ciation’s pride is in finding suitable jobs
for elderly persons. More than 1800 have
now been found work. Medical rehabili-
tation-work is planned, and the objective
is that all who can give effective service
will be given opportunities to continue
working. In addition, Gilmour points out
that other reasons for encouraging greater
employment of older men and women
(\4ho are efficient and conscientious)


include the changing age-structure of the
community, the increasing length of the
average life-span, and the productive-
manpower needs of the nation. —C. M.
(Vic.).
Hospital Finances
Victoria’s hospital-finances are in a
parlous state once more. From the great
public hospitals to the little country
centres, all are battling. Tradesmen are
forced to wait for their money, a generally
unsatisfactory arrangement.
One prominent base-hospital had its
wages-cheque returned unpaid from the
bank recently, and only Government
assurances that the deposit would be
forthcoming induced the bank to provide
the ready cash.
When Mr. Cain lured Tattersall’s away
from Tasmania one of his main argu-
ments to objectors was that Victorian
hospitals would be the main beneficiaries.
No doubt they get a share, but so does
the Treasury. Public subscription helps,
but in these expensive days that is limited.
Two rises in as many years have put
beds in an almost luxury-class. Latent
scheme is to limit public wards to those
who, less allowances, are earning only the
basic wage, and to extend the inter-
mediate wards with a minimum charge of
17gns. weekly.
Very few in employment are on the
basic wage—margins, overtime, travelling-
time, etc., take them out of this class.
But even with Commonwealth benefits
and association payments deducted,
there would still be a staggering bill to be
met by those unfortunate enough to be
hospitalised for any length of time. The
effect on a young couple with a family
who struck a black patch would be almost
disastrous.
No doubt the hospitals have to make
ends meet, and their administrators have
enough on their hands at the moment
without senseless criticism, but if the
Government cannot make more money
available, what about it foregoing its
share of Tatt.’s and diverting it to
hospital-finance? This could easily be
classified as a public subscription, for it
is only the man-in-the-street’s five-bobs
that make the lottery’s marbles click. —
R. E. (Vic.).
Public-service Freelances
Agree with “Geep” (B. 5/12/’56) that
a knowledge of his subject is a good
qualification for a freelance writer.
Ability to express himself lucidly is
another, but one that isn’t noticeable in
many articles written by highly-placed
civil servants. Such articles are obviously
accepted because of the writer’s official
title.
But that’s beside the point. “Geep”
cites a soil-conservation officer who
“writes because he’s tin expert in his
field” and consequently “may be doing
a public service by publishing his results
as widely as possible.” Undoubtedly he
is doing a public service—the very
service he’s being paid by the public to
“Try it upstairs .”
do. That’s his job—to find out all he
can about soil-conservation and
publicise his findings. But when he
demands extra pay for the same job from
outside sources, then I maintain he's using
his official position to invade a profes-
sion for which often he has no
qualifications.
For years the Westralian Agriculture
Department published a journal contain-
ing informative articles written by the
department officers in dull language and
bristling with ponderous terminology,
Only those farmers who were vitally
interested in a particular subject could
plough through the stuff. The officers
had the knowledge and the means of
spreading it, and they did a remarkably
good job within the limits imposed by
their lack of journalistic skill, but their
knowledge wasn’t being dissemiftated as
it could have been. /
Then, a few years ago, a qualified
journalist took-over, and the journal
immediately became readable, attractive
and sought-after. The articles are still
supplied by the department officers, but
they’re edited and presented by a man
who knows his job, and the informa-
tion they contain has a far wider public.
As a result the technical men are able
to give the State better value for the
money the State pays them, because
their talents aj-e being combined with
those of a man who is as accomplished
in his profession as they are in theirs.
When a Government employee uses
his official title to place paid articles on
his particular field of work, then he’s
charging the public for information for
which it has already paid. It’s public
property, and it’s part of the officer’s job
to make it known. If he writes his articles
during normal office-hours he obviously
has no right to charge anyone for them ;
if he hasn’t got the time, inclination or
ability to write them he should be
prepared to supply the facts to a
journalist who can put them in readable
form.—Squinter (W.A.).
Extradition Treaties
A good many of our newer Aus-
tralians will breathe more easily
if the Government adopts the recom-
mendations of the Parliamentary Foreign
Affairs Committee and abrogates the
extradition-treaties with the Communist-
controlled countries, Albania, Czecho-
slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania and
Yugoslavia—treaties which were made
many years before the Communist era.
The committee said that in such
countries the normal safeguards of justice
didn’t seem to apply, and the authorities,
on their own admissions, fabricated evi-
dence, extorted false confessions and con-
demned and executed innocent men for
political purposes. The maintenance of
extradition-treaties with such countries,
the committee said, was “inappropriate,”
and they did not think that abrogation
would make any significant change in this
country’s, capacity to prevent Australian
criminals from escaping punishment by
flight abroad.—M. W. (N.S.W.).
Criticism
There’s more to criticism of the arts
(B. 17/10/’56) than condemning a book,
painting or film. The most important
function of criticism is to stimulate—
without this stimulation, real art in any
form cannot thrive.’ Moreover, criticism
in itself has contributed substantially to
the world’s literature as well as influencing
the trend of creative work.
Instead of comparing artists or authors
with the makers of suits or furniture it
should be realised that the first are pro-
ducing something on which most people
need guidance, while the latter will be
quickly found out if they foist shoddy
goods on their customers. Similarly, any
evidence of professional men’s inefficiency
soon gets around—their clients are also
their critics.
Every man who produces something
has a reputation to maintain, so it is in his
best interests to do high-grade work. The
critic’s duty lies not so much in warning
“Oh, Sir Brain—what are We here for? What is our destiny
in this vale of tears ?”
that a certain work of art is inferior, as
in encouraging the creation of better stuff
by judiciously criticising everything, good,
bad or indifferent.
Art must be criticised only as art, and
not as merchandise. If every piece of
creative work were regarded as a chattel
to be haggled-over in the market-place,
the norm of quality would soon drop.
Although a man may be depending on art
for a living that is no reason why critics
should ignore his faults. Such hypocrisy
would be unfair to the artist and public
and detrimental to artistic Standards. —
Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Loans and Taxes
Why isn’t there some real taxation
incentive to persuade people to subscribe
to loans —taxation theory has long left
behind the idea that the purpose of
taxation is only to raise necessary money?
Farmers are allowed to deduct from
their taxable income money spent on
many improvements to their land. This
has done more than any other single
factor to increase primary production; a
similar incentive could increase the whole
country’s production of capital assets.
If subscriptions to loans were made a
deduction from taxable income there
would be an incentive for both the well-
paid wage - earner (particularly the
unmarried man) and for “the capitalist”
to subscribe. The Government would be
happy to get the money ; the States would
be happy in spending it; the economists
would be happy because spending-power
would be reduced; and the individual
could save despite high rates of taxation.
It is even possible that some of the
money would be spent to good purpose.
Loans so subscribed should become
taxable income when sold within, say,
10 years, unless used for private capital
purposes —for example, to buy a home. —
Taroom (Q.).
Teachers’ Holiday-pay
The news that the N.S.W. Government
had difficulty in raising some £2 million
to provide holiday-pay for its 18,000
teachers set me wondering how much
will go to teachers who do not resign at
the end of the school-year but return for
two or three weeks of the new term in
order to collect holiday-pay before sever-
ing their connection with the department.
Of the 18 staff-members at our local
school, two will be receiving holiday-
pay to which they are not morally entitled
—one is resigning for family reasons, the
other took care to return from abroad
two weeks before the school broke-up.
This practice appears to be generally
accepted throughout the profession, and,
as teachers are now among the better-
paid public servants and the school
vacation spreads over six weeks and six
days, it would be interesting to know
how much is being paid out by the
various Governments in such
circumstances. —Carlyle (Vic.).
Actions and Words
In the welter of propaganda material
churned out by several diplomatic
missions in Canberra, the careful
reader with enough time on, his hands
can sometimes run across informa-
tive “uncabled additions.” A case in
point is the Indian report of a banquet
in New Delhi on "November 29 in honor
of Chou En-lai’s second visit to India.
During it, Nehru remarked to Chou, “We
all know how your nation has worked
towards peace, and' how you have
exercised great patience.... It is my
hope that your country and your people
and the people of India will progress
through peace and love,” sentiments to
which Chou made suitable response. He
welcomed the increasing economic,
cultural and other contacts, and declared
there could be lasting peace only when
relations between the nations of the world
were established on the basis of the “five
principles of peaceful co-existence.”
These fine speeches in praise of peace and
co-existence have a familiar ring. In
Australia at least China’s actions are
regarded as more important than any
words of China’s present leaders. —
Stromlo (A.C.T.).
The Lord Mayor
As the Lord Mayor of Sydney is
elected by popular vote, why doesn’t the
same apply to suburban and country
mayors, and even to shire-presidents? In
his own particular area, the Mayor of,
say, Parramatta is just as important to
local citizens as the Lord Mayor of
Sydney is to his city-dwellers.
It seems that these municipal elections
are rapidly becoming a farce. Where I
live few of the candidates bothered to
put out any literature, and few of the
ratepayers had heard of more than half
the candidates —they did not know
whether they were engineers or clerks or
whether any of them knew the difference
between a concrete higfiway and a
bullock-track.
The lack' of interest in the elections indi-
cated that only a small percentage voted
with any sense of civic duty, the rest voted
mainly to avoid a fine. Some idea of the
waste of public money can be had by a
glance at the advertised results in the
columns of the big city dailies, as well as
in local papers. Some suburban munici-
palities took-up about a fifth of a page
in a Sydney daily, giving details of the
voting in which few were interested.
Ratepayers would be interested to
know just how mudh they will have to
pay for these expensive advertisements.—
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DEMAND FOR VETS
ONCE, perhaps, the vet. was
the man called to have a
look at a sick horse or dog when
it was so sick that nothing could
be done for it, anyway. Today
the vet. is a first thought; and
awareness of his value is increas-
ing.
But his species isn’t increasing
fast enough!
Roughly, the vet. comes in
two sizes: as a general practi-
tioner whose main function is
the prevention and treatment of
ill-health in individual animals,
in a similar manner to his
medico-counterpart; and, since
the other main role of veterinary
science is the protection of the
community from diseases of
animal origin, he appears also
—usually as a Government
officer —on research and advisory
work, food-inspection, quaran-
tine and the, control of trans-
missible diseases.
Other vets, may be employed
by universities, research-
institutes and private firms, on
research and advisory work, and
there’s more and more call for
them in all modern-style animal-
production.
To enter the profession in
Australia, it is necessary to
graduate from the Faculty of
Veterinary Science at Sydney or
Queensland University: students
can do their first-year studies at
any Australian uni., then proceed
to Sydney or Brisbane. Allowing
for some slight differences here
and there, the following is a
pattern of the course:
First year: Foundations laid
for future study with courses in
the basic sciences—chemistry,
physics, botany and zoology.
Second year: Main subjects,
anatomy (study of structure of
the normal animal), physiology
and biochemistry (study of the
various body-functions), and
animal-husbandry (care and
management of livestock). The
student is concerned with the
study of the normal animal, so
that later on abnormal or patho-
logical conditions can be under-'
stood.
Third year: Major subjects
continued, and further time
devoted to anatomy, physiology,
biochemistry and animal-
husbandry. Students also
commence the study of disease
(pathology); visual and micro-
scopic examination of diseased
tissues ; changes brought about
by disease-producing agents.
Fourth year: Divided between
*£, study of the courses of disease
and the effects of these on the
animal, together with principles
of diagnosis and treatment.
Fifth year: More advanced
According to some
American scientists
ewes grazing on
legume pastures are
frequently hard to
breed requiring far
more repeat services
than those in the
drylot or on green
pastures. Authorities
recommend graziers
whose flocks feed on
legume pastures to
put them on non-
legume pastures 10
days before breeding.
A further recommen-
dation which could
save trouble and lamb
loss is to mark and
tail the lambs with
Elastrator Rubber
Rings which do not
involve open wounds
and the resultant
danger of infestation
by disease germs.
study of several subjects, notably
surgery, clinical medicine and
obstetrics. Application of
animal - husbandry (including
nutrition and genetics) is also
taken-in. Such subjects as meat-
inspection and pastoral botany
are included in the syllabus.
At all stages of the veterinary
course students engage largely in
practical work, the essence of
learning in all fields of applied
science. This includes dissection
in anatomy and pathology,
laboratory-work in physiology,
bacteriology and parasitology,
and clinical work in medicine,
surgery and obstetrics.
Both Brisbane and Sydney
Veterinary Schools are equipped
Illustrations on these “Man on the Land” pages are from Dr. F. T. Bowman’s book,
"Citrus-growing in Australia.” Here, in striking contrast to the familiar geometrical
type, is a corner of a property growing citrus “on the contour.” Dr. Bowman (Principal
Research Officer, N.S.W. Department of Agriculture) says this method is rapidly
increasing in popularity.
with farms at which students
are given practical training.
Students are required to gain
practical experience during
vacation in stock-breeding and
the feeding and management of
stock on approved farms and
stations.
Arrangements are also made
for senior students to spend
several weeks at veterinary-
research stations and with
Government veterinary officers
and private practitioners. Experi-
ence with veterinarians is
valuable inasmuch as the student
meets at close-up the problems
he has to deal with, and learns
to apply academic knowledge
gained at the university.
After five years’ study and the
passing of necessary examina-
tions, the Bachelor degree
(B.V.Sc.) is obtained. This
degree is necessary for any
veterinary appointment or
for registration under State
Veterinary Surgeons’ Boards.
The degree is also qualification
for the degree of M.V.Sc., to be
taken in Melbourne or Brisbane.
The degree of Doctor of
Veterinary Science is awarded
to candidates who have fulfilled
certain prescribed conditions,
and made some notable contribu-
tion to veterinary science.
Scholarships provided by the
Commonwealth Government to
assist students seeking higher
education can be used advan-
tageously in the veterinary-
science field. As well, some State
Governments provide scholar-
ships or cadetships to enable
students to undertake training;
in return students usually have
to serve that State as a veteri-
narian for several years after
graduation.
v - Prospects for veterinary
graduates are good. Many
graduates are going into private
practice ; more practices are
being established in country
centres than hitherto.
In some rural areas co-
operative organisations (such as
butter-factories) arrange sub-
sidies to induce veterinarians to
set-up practice. Once there, they
can give expert advice to the
co-operatives on fheir problems
as well as advising local farmers
on preventive measures,* animal-
husbandry, etc.
Veterinary officers of the
Department of Commerce and
Agriculture are stationed in
various parts of Australia,
particularly at meat-export
works, and are responsible for
the inspection of all meat and
meat-products exported from
Australia. At the Common-
wealth Serum Laboratories, sera,
vaccines and other biological
products for the control of
human and animal diseases are
produced.
State Agricultural Depart-
ments are short of vets. ; in
these departments they’re
responsible for control of disease
amongst livestock, inspection of
meat for human consumption
and dissemination of knowledge
to farmers and graziers. There
are, as well, opportunities in
State veterinary laboratories in
disease-diagnosis and research.
Then there is a very consider-
able vet. - shortage in the
C.5.1.R.0. and in universities,
where they’re needed for research
and teaching: of course, in this
time of specialisation, high
academic attainment is required
in these fields.
Young graduates of promise
get opportunities to do specialist-
research overseas in their chosen
field bacteriology, pathology,
parasitology, nutrition, animal-
breeding. Australian degrees are
recognised in the U.K., and some
Australians hold high appoint-
ments there and in other
countries.
But a bit of slick careers-talk
needs to be done to fill the quota
on the home-front. It is esti-
mated that an additional 40
to 50 graduates will be required
in each of the next 10 years.
A survey by the Australian
Veterinary Association has
found that “though the ranks of
the profession have been con-
siderably augmented in recent
years, there is still an unsatisfied
demand for ’ veterinary
graduates.”
There are reasons for this
quite apart from the obvious one
of increased population: increas-
ing attention being paid to
control of animal-diseases;
increasing awareness of the need
for care of sick and injured
animals ; growing recognition of
the importance of food-
production, and recognition of
the role of veterinary science in
maintaining the health of food-
producing animals ; provision of
more money for research,
advisory and regulatory work,
stemming from a realisation that
a sound livestock industry is
essential for national prosperity.
R. A.
Sheep in Gear
“Nerrin”: Sheepowners are
becoming more and more aware
of the need for gearing-up sheep
in advance to the use of con-
served fodder and concentrates.
Unless sheep are trained to eat
such things as silage, chou
moellier, grain, stubble, and even
hay, they often lose condition
badly before the fodder does
them much good.
In Gippsland (Vic.) ewes have
developed pregnancy - toxaemia
and died through refusing to eat
an abundance of hay put before
them when natural feed was
short.
Lambs generally dislike silage
before they are trained to eat it;
weaners often prowl around
stubble before they get the
courage to enter it ; and grain
can cause serious trouble if
gorged by sheep which have not
been geared to it.
Fortunately, good management
and training can overcome these
troubles.
For instance, sheep can be
trained to eat hay if lucerne
or some other high-quality
fodder is mixed with it for a
start.
Spraying some molasses on it
will help sheep to get used to
silage.
Some older sheep will
encourage weaners to enter
stubble, and a little grain at a
time in the beginning—say, 2oz.
a head daily will prevent
troubles from gorging.
Improving Wheat
“Sundowner”: A South Aus-
tralian survey has shown that in
a 20-year period from 1934 the
percentage of foreign matter in
the State’s wheat-crops, which
reduces millable quality of the
flour, has increased by only .46.
Discussing this survey, depart-
mental agronomist W. C. John-
ston says the percentage of
foreign matter in a grain-crop
should be kept below 3.5. How-
ever, on only eight occasions in
20 years has this been achieved.
Growth of foreign matter' can
be checked and wheat-standards
raised, Johnston says, by giving
attention to the following
points:
Where cropping rotations are
narrow, longer intervals between,
crops and the development of
good clover pastures, by
seeding-down and adequate top-
dressing to improve soil-fertility.
Greater fertility will not only
give higher-yielding -crops but
will build up the protein content
of the grain.
Sow suitable varieties of good-
baking-quality wheats.
If the seed-bed is carefully
prepared, objectionable weed-
seeds will be germinated and the
plants subsequently killed. This
will reduce the tainting of grain.
Spraying of weedy crops will
increase yields and further
reduce the amount of weed-seeds
likely to get into the grain.
Control of wild-turnip by
spraying will bring about a
reduction in the competition to
wheat in early growth and enable
denser and heavier-yielding crops
to be grown, particularly in
lighter soils.
Melilotus can be checked,
and even eliminated, by spraying
with 11b. sodium or amine
2,4-D (acid equivalent) per acre,
but care must be taken to avoid
crop-damage by spraying when
the crop is not more than 6in.
to 9in. high.
Allow crops to mature before
harvesting. Grain-quality will
be lowered if too much green
material is included ; it will lead
to overheating and the develop-
ment of injurious moulds.
Riverina's Capital—
and Sheep
SAY “Wagga Wagga” slowly,
and the aboriginal meaning,
“Call of the crows,” is under-
stood. But the country centring
on Wagga Wagga —focal-point of
M. H. Ellis’s article on the soil-
conservation and power-farming
revolution of the past 10 years or
so (“Man on the Land,” B.
19/12/’56) —is today, as Mr.
Ellis pointed out, very different
from the former land of dead
sheep and dispelled hope.
Today the Wagga Wagga
country is a rich pastoral area,
with Wagga itself the hub of 35
surrounding Riverina towns, all
in their own sheepbreeding, wool-
growing districts. It’s the Capital
so far as the graziers’ marketing
and purchasing of sheep are
concerned.
On the main railroad between
Sydney and Melbourne, only-
about 40 miles from the Hume
Highway, it has a good service
of rail- and motor-transport to
suit sheep-buyer and -seller,
whether the purchaser is a
Sydney meat-buyer w-ith exacting
requirements in fat sheep, or a
Victorian buyer for big lines
of “stores.”
An average yarding of sheep
at Thursday’s weekly sheep-
market is approximately 5000,
and it is rarely that there are
any withdrawals of sheep.
At the “specials,” held alter-
nately by Wagga branches of
Dalgety’s, Younghusband’s, Aus-
tralian Mercantile, New Zea-
land Loan, Farmers and
Graziers, etc., an average
yarding, principally of stores, is
approximately 10,000, mostly
crossbreds.
Crossbred sheep are the main
interest of Wagga graziers, and


Best
Mineral
Supplement
1
Os
OM-
ILt»P
stf*
BOH*
ffc©'?
2?
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
‘D^ai-Oi.
« STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC phosphate
Aaj particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: GJ>X) 80. SSBJ.
SYDNEY • GAO. 80. 4058. MELBOURNE • GAO.
80. 712 F. ADELAIDE • GAO. 80. 758 K. BRISBANE
• GAO 80. 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
are largely stocked. But the
market also often offers large
lines of a splendid type of
Merino, large-framed, strong-
woolled, sent in for sale from
the western areas.
There is often quite a lot of
dust, and sometimes a little burr
in their wool—the result of sheep
running on stubble but this
doesn’t lessen the attractiveness
of the sheep with the south-west-
slopes buyers, near-by Gundagai
and Cootamundra graziers
wishing to stock-up with larger-
framed sheep than they can
breed in the hillier country, and
even for those of the rich
Muttama valley, some distance
away.
The Dorset Horn breed in
lambs, particularly, appeals to
local and “slopes” buyers.
Millionaire Tyson purchased
sheep for a mere song in the
Wagga district in a drought year,
and made history by swimming
the sheep across the flooded
’Bidgee to take them to the
Victorian market, and to make
a huge profit on his gameness.
The large stations owned by
Donnelly are still. there;
Borambola is one, though it is
now cut-up to a smaller “sheep
run.” F. W. Hughes, with his
thoroughbred - stud producing
Melbourne Cup winners, was a
latter-day owner.
Production, also, of dairying
and wheat has always been a
boast of Wagga, and rightly so.
It is all very different from
the “hayseed” picture. Wagga
itself has gardens throughout the
city, swimming-baths, etc. The
Wagga beach is floodlit by night,
and there are motels as well as
the (numerous) hotels. Its
Olympic pool .et the city back
£142,000.
Thousands of bales of wool
(both Merino and crossbred) are,
of course, dispatched to Sydney,
Melbourne and Albury each
year. In Corriedale wool a 68-70 1
count is usual. The Southdown
stud of Brunskill and Sons is
renowned; the rich river-
country of the ’Bidgee suits the
Southdown. From Mangoplah,
near Wagga, some of the best
Corriedale ewes I have seen for
a long time were purchased by
a south-west-slopes neighbor.
Some details of the wool and
the class of sheep:
Corriedale ewes: Lambing
(3 and 4yr. ewes) approx. 70 per
cent. Joining: to Polwarth rams
to obtain size in lamb. Wool
value ; saleability as a “store”
lamb. Strength of lamb.
Phenovis drench employed after
weaning, especially.
Corriedale-Dorset: A particu-
larly large-framed type ; especi-
ally in hogget-wethers—proving
the joining to be a desirable one.
Merino - Border - Leicester : A
large-framed Merino ewe was
purchased from the west, and
the resultant Merino-Border lamb
bred in Wagga district .brought a
top-price when sold this year.
Southdown : This breed not as
much in evidence as formerly,
but when bred from good stock
and run on suitable rich country
has proved remunerative to the
Wagga breeder. The Riverina
breeder is concentrating more on
local market than overseas.
A prominent Riverina grazier,
in summing-up the sheep position
at Wagga in 1956, says:
1. Despite the abnormal rain-
fall of this year, and the natural
detriment to sheep, local graziers
have overcome resultant losses
of lambs —in some cases, even
with everything in favor of
proper management, a 50 per
cent. loss.
2. The Riverina sheepman is
quite prepared to spend money
in drenches such as Phenovis (the
more expensive drench), blue-
stone, arsenic and nicotine,
and has adopted a different
programme of sheep-manage-
ment ; despite seasonal and
unexpected changes, he has still
won through.
Graziers, generally, in the
district are prepared to spend
more money (and their taxes will
he helped) to eradicate footrot,
with its resultant loss in condition
and appearance in general of the
sheep.
This is evidenced in the fact
that in all sales of sheep—
“specials” or “weekly”—each
particular line is listed as dipped,
drenched, and lambs “Pheno-
vised.”
Mary Last.
Cutting Lucerne
“Dereel”: Although lucerne
makes the best hay, it needs care-
ful handling when being cut and
cured, to give its best food-value
to stock. The chief aim is to
keep the leaves on the stems.
For this reason lucerne hay is
best made in the windrows, where
the leaves draw moisture from
the sappy stems. The lucerne
should be cut as soon as it begins
to flower and before the stems
harden and the leaves wither.
Cut as close to the ground as
possible without injuring the
mower-blade, to get the maxi-
mum amount of material and to
force new growth from the
crown and not from the old
stalks.
It is best to cut lucerne as
early in the day as possible, but
not until the dew has evaporated.
Leave the cut material in the
swathe only long enough for it
to wilt. This takes only a few
hours in hot weather; up to
several days in cool, moist
weather.
On hot, sunny days lucerne
can be cut in the morning, raked
at lunch-time, cocked during the
next morning, and stacked the
day after. Windrows should, be
loose enough to circulate air
freely.
The best stage to bale lucerne
is when the stalks are tough but
dry enough for no sap. to be
noticeable when they are twisted
tightly. Stalks should not be
brittle.
It is a good idea to turn the
cocks an hour or two before
carting them, to dry the bottoms,
which might have become damp
on the ground. In very hot
weather, it is often best to confine
carting to early morning and
evening.
Never graze lucerne close to
the ground and into the crowns.
Hay Crusher
“Father Time”: Recent addi-
tion to haymaking-machinery
has been the hay-crusher, which
is mounted on a hydraulic lift
behind the tractor to which a
mower is side-mounted. The
crusher hastens drying by
squeezing much of the juices out
of the stems.
It is most suitable for lucerne
and other thick-stemmed crops,
halving their growing time
during good weather, and allow-
ing more hay to be made in a
given time.
The crusher, however, gives
no benefit in poor drying-
conditions, and can actually be
detrimental during wet or humid
weather.
Pre-lambing Wool
“Big Billy”: Research in New
Zealand has found that clips of
pre-lambing wool are much
superior to post-lambing wool
from the same flock.
Made by the Woollen Mills
Research Association in Dunedin,
the investigations disclosed that
even when the portions suitable
for worsted combing were sorted-
out and processed the pre-
lambing wool gave a better
performance in the mill.
Discussing the findings,
research-officers L. F. Story,
D. A. Ross, R. L. Bratt and
K. H. C. Lewis point out that
shearing before lambing has been
found by experience to have
considerable advantages. Fewer
lambs are lost, because shorn
ewes are more likely to go to
shelter to lamb if there is a spell
of bad weather. In addition,
lambing and suckling are easier.
Against this are the facts that
shorn ewes are more difficult
to catch at lambing and bearing-
trouble is harder to deal with.
While all the officers agree that
the advantages of pre-lambing
shearing outweigh the disadvan-
tages they emphasise that one of
the most potent objections is that
it is cruel to shear sheep in
winter and expose them to the
cold. This can be refuted on
two grounds. First, sheep do not
have as sensitive a temperature-
controlling me chan i s m as
humans, so they do not feel the
cold so much. Second, if it is
cruel to a ewe to shear it in cold
weather, how much more cruel
is it to its lamb to be born only
a few weeks later and to be
subjected to a sudden change
from heated surroundings within
its mother to a cold paddock?
The mill tests showed that pre-
lambing shorn wools were much
Citrus-rooting—in favored and in unsuitable soil conditions. Much is heard of
root-development, good and bad, but effective examples are usually lacking. So a
Westralian farmer pulled up this pair and took the picture.
superior, because they were
sound, whereas many of the
post-lambing shorn fleeces were
tender. When the combing-type
wools shorn from the two clips
were processed the pre-lambing
wool was still superior, giving
less combing noil and a stronger
yarn.
Oat Dormancy
“Sunset”: As some relatively
immature new-season’s oat-seed
does not germinate well because
its coat is impermeable to
oxygen for a few months, it is
wise to delay harvest until the
oats are dead-ripe—particularly
if the early harvest-weather has
been cooler than usual. If in
doubt, get the seed tested.
In this respect, Victorian seed
is more satisfactory than
Tasmanian - harvested seed,
reports J. Tilt in the- “Tasmanian
Journal of Agriculture.” How-
ever, 12-months-oid seed can be
sown as early as desired without
risk of faulty germination.
Capons
“Agricola”: The flesh of
caponised cockerels is very
tender, with a delicate flavor.
The birds can be eaten when old
and no coarseness of flesh will be
noticed. Housewives on the
lookout for something tasty pay
higher prices for capons.
Poultrymen are finding it pays
to cater for this market. Thanks
to hormones, it’s no longer
necessary to mess about with
operations. A pellet of hormone
injected beneath the skin on the
neck does the trick.
The synthetic female hormones
most commonly used are Stil-
boestrol and Hexoestrol. When
absorbed, they “damp down” the
normal male hormone and the
bird develops female charac-
teristics. The effect is the same
as if the testes had been removed.
Anyone can put the drug in
the right place with a little
practice. The loose skin on the
top of the neck is the site usually
chosen.
Pull the skin away from the
neck with thumb and finger, and
push about half-an-inch of the
needle through the skin. Push
the plunger down and the pellet
will lodge in the cavity between
skin and muscle. Pull out the
needle and the job’s done.
Birds should be chemically
caponised when about 10 weeks
old. If you want very heavy
birds, do the job when the
cockerels are 12 weeks old and
give a larger dose, but don’t wait
until the birds grow spurs. A
prime capon has no spurs.
Plastic for Frosts
“Big Billy”: A plastic film is
being used in the United States
to protect vegetable-crops against
frosts. Moreover, the lightweight
film of clear polyethylene used
gives an earlier yield.
Price of the plastic is as yet
prohibitive, but large - scale
production is expected soon to
bring it within the reach of all
market-gardeners.
Research has demonstrated
that tomatoes covered with the
microscopipally-thin film matured
12 to 16 days earlier than with
plants protected from frost by
individual waxed-paper covers.
The film enables the plant to get
a quick, vigorous start. It will
also protect late crops from
being damaged by frost before
the fruit is foully matured.
Dead Heads
“Swanee”: Naturally, there’s
nothing much that can dis-
appoint a wheatgrower more
than to find that his thick-
looking crop has not a grain in
the ears. Most common reason
is a damaging frost at flowering-
time, when the sex-organs are
too damaged to set seed.
When frost strikes, one part
of a paddock can be affected, but
another part can have an aspect
which beats the cold-wave.
Another reason for dead
heads is root-rot, which cuts off
the nutriment to the ears and
prevents grain being formed:
usually occurs in overcropped
soil; less active after the land
has been left out under clover
for several years. Plants fail to
mature ; there’s a brownish color
on the straw just below ground-
level.
The other cause of grainless
ears, or carroway-seed-sized
pinched grain, is stem-rust, which
also cuts off nutriment from the
grain.
Common during muggy
weather, rust remains one of our
worst wheat diseases. Main
weapon against it is the rust-free
varieties, which, however, do not
remain immune long, because
new races of rust are being
formed all the time.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Increasing success
is attending the mating of cross-
bred ewe weaners to lamb as
two-tooths in S.A. In most cases
up to 80 per cent, better has been
obtained. The weaners must be
well grown at mating (dropped
early, say, April or May). They
should have received no check,
and should have been fed with
oats through the lean autumn
and early winter period to
supplement paddock feed. Run
them at an easier stocking-rate
than mature ewes and give them
ample time to pick-up condition
before being next mated.
“Sundowner”: A recom-
mended summer-fodder crop in
over- 18in.-rainfall areas is 2-4 lb.
chou tnoellier per acre, 41b. rape,
8-101 b. Sudan - grass, 4-Blb.
lucerne. To get the best return
from these crops good soil-tilth
and up to 2cwt. super, per acre
are essentials.


had to go. “Go where?” said
Fritz. Lorna looked dumb.
“Where?” she said.
“Shopping,” said Ina.
“Ve come?” pleaded Hermann.
“Yes, ve vilj. all come,”
declared Fritz.
“Oh, no, you don’t!” Lorna
wagged a finger at them and
looked as gay as she could. “I
have to buy a brassiere.”
“All vill buy,” said Fritz.
“All vill buy,” chorused
Hermann, with enthusiasm.
“Hermann was really rather
nicer than the others,” explained
Ina. “Gentler. After that, Lorna
rang you again and you were
still useless, so we all went to
buy a brassiere.”
At the store Ina told them
very catefully that they would
have to wait on the ground-floor.
She Knd Lorna waved them
gooclbye as the lift-doors closed.
Unfortunately they came down
the escalator a few minutes
afterwards right into the arms of
Hermann, who loved escalators.
“Are here,” he shouted. “The
vomen.”
Everyone in the store looked
and Fritz and his friends hurried
to join them. The little party
went out on to the street.
“We must go home now,” said
Ina.
“Is far?” asked Hermann.
“Ve vill all go home,” declared
Fritz.
The others looked pleased.
“But you can’t,” laughed Lorna.
“The room’s in a terrible state.”
“It is known,” said Fritz
without smiling, “that women
are untidier than men.”
“Veil known,” agreed Her-
mann. “All go?”
They walked down Market-
street towards the tram, the girls
exchanging useless glances and
Ina, in her “Vogue”-clothes,
trying to look as though a
crowd of leather - jacketed
Germans had nothing to do with
her. They came to a fruit-
barrow. Fritz stopped by it.
They all stopped. He bought two
apples and gave one to each of
his silent friends. Hermann
looked hurt, but they smiled and
made a joke in German. Ina felt
ill. To look like “Vogue” and
carry a long umbrella while
escorted by Germans who were
eating apples was not, in her
view, the thing.
FRITZ bought two more
apples. He gave one to
Lorna and one to Ina. Hermann
looked hurt again.
“Eat,” said Fritz. “Good for
you.”
“Always hungry,” I said.
“What did you do?”
“What could I do?” said Ina.
“I said that I wasn’t hungry. I
said that I hated apples. I said
that I was not' in the habit of
eating in the street.”
“And?”
“And he just kept saying, ‘Eat,
eat, eat’ in a very definite voice
that got louder every time, until
a small crowd had gathered.
Fortunately only those in the
front row could see what it
was all about, and there was
nobody there that might have
known me.”
“What did you do?”
“What could I do?” she said
again. “I ate it, bite by bite,
chew by chew —every bit, while
everyone watched me. Fritz
looked stern and Hermann kept
jabbering ‘ls goot? Is goot?’
like a damned parrot. Lorna
just giggled; she has no dignity.
I’m very fond of her, but she
just hasn’t any dignity at all. It
was an extraordinarily juicy
apple. I’ve stained my glove.
Look.”
I looked and tried to have
dignity, not to laugh. “How did
you get away? And where’s
Lorna?”
“We came to a hotel they
knew, but I knew it too. I went
in one door of the Ladies’ and
out the other. God —or the
devil more likely—knows what
they’ve done to Lorna by now! ”
I poured more tea and tried
not to laugh, but it was no good.
Ina, the poised one, eating an
extraordinarily juicy apple in the
street; Lorna, the terrible, being
forced to do anything she didn’t
want to do in a hotel; it was
something to laugh about. I
laughed.
“You don’t understand,” said
Ina. “How could you? If any-
one had told me! I know
it sounds funny. But! .. .
but they were so grim.
It was terrible. I felt just the
way I was supposed to feel in
the war and didn’t. I wanted to
save the Jews and burn Berlin.
They bullied us like—animals.”
And she was crying, real tears!
“When I was in Berlin,” she
said, “there was no one like
them. They were in the Army
when they were fourteen. Of
course I was only there for three
days, but —but there can’t really
be many people like that in the
world, can there? Can there?”
“I’ll get you something to eat.
You must feel like eating.”
“I have eaten,” she said
bitterly. “What I feel like is
joining a political party.”
“Gee!” I was impressed. “It
must have been a terrible time.”
“There was another thing,
Will. We ran into Roger. You
know what a fool he is and how
droopy and English he looks.
Well, he stopped to talk to us,
and they were rude to him. They
kept talking loudly in German
so that we could hardly hear
him. And as he walked away,
while he could still hear, Fritz
asked us why we talked to such
weaklings.
“I tried to laugh it off but
Lorna was furious and said so.
You know how impulsive she is
and we didn’t have Annette to
think about now. She said that
Roger was a genius and very
sensitive and intelligent and all
sorts of things, but Fritz just
laughed at her and said some-
thing about men being men and
women not understanding and
that weaklings like Roger should
be beaten down and not treated
like equals or Australia would
end-up like England.”
“Gee,” I said again. “I sup-
pose he’d include me as a
weakling.”
“I’m sure he would,” said Ina.
She looked so concerned that
I felt a great deal more fond of
her than usual. So I gave her
some food and then some hot
milk and aspirin and sent her
(carefully) off to bed.
“But what about Lorna?” she
said.
“Pity the Nazi that tangles
with her! ”
AT twelve-o’clock there was a
knock on the door. I was
sitting and telling myself that
I was working and wondering
where Lorna was, so that
although the knock was a bit
gentle I was sure that it was her.
But it was Ina.
♦“I couldn’t sleep,” she said.
“I’m worried.”
She was wearing a little-
girlish nightgown, and slippers
too big for her. Her longish
hair was unwound and she’d tied
it in two silly pigtails. She
looked more like a girl than I’d
ever seen her before.
“I’ll make some tea,” I said.
It seemed the only way to avoid
complications.
So we sat there drinking tea,
stewing it and spinning it out,
telling one another how admir-
ably Lorna had coped with
indignant wives, almoners and
religious cranks.
At three she arrived. Her eyes
were shining. They were close
to tears.- She leant against the
door.
“My God,” she said. “It was
terrible.”
“Traitor,” she said to Ina. She
noticed her clothes. “Am I
interrupting anything?” she said.
“Of course not,” I said.
“Of course not,” said Ina in
her normal, nasty way.
“Of course not,” said Lorna,
almost convinced.
“What happened?” I said.
“Everything. Nothing,” said
Lorna. “Have you left me some
tea?”
I poured her a cup.
“We went dancing,” she said.
“You can’t imagine the lies I had
to te|| to convince them that
Ina hadn’t been taken by white-
slavers and still definitely even
so couldn’t be found. The
dancing, though, was quite
pleasant. Hermann is rather
sweet.”
“I like them smoother,” said
Ina.
Lorna looked at her and then
at me. “Hm,” she said.
SHE danced with all of them,
though not all at the same
time, and they sang the German
words to all the songs they knew.
Everyone thought they were
charming, and they behaved
very well —just had a good time.
(“Terribly Continental though,”
said Lorna.)
But then they began to get
excited and to talk about dance-
halls in Hamburg, and the girls
there, and how everything was
different from bloody
Australia.
A big boilermaker (“He must
have been a boilermaker,” said
Lorna, “at least!”) was going to
hit them, but the manager came
and soothed everybody. (“I kept
trying to leave,” said Lorna,
“but the Ladies’ had only one
door.”)
Then they danced again. But
a little man with glasses kept
wanting to dance with Lorna
and the Germans didn’t like it.
They were going to hit him but
Lorna told them that she wanted
to dance with him and she
would. Fritz then pointed out
that, she was a fool, and that
men were men and women
didn’t understand, and that
weaklings, etc., etc.
Hermann .said, “Not goot.”
“And suddenly,” said Lorna,
“I was shouting at them and cry-
ing and telling them to go to
Hamburg or Hell or somewhere
and using the most terrible
language and everyone was
staring at me.”
“So?”
“So the manager asked me to
leave.”
“That was lucky,” said Ina.
“But not pleasant,” she added.
“Of course it wasn’t pleasant:
came with me. And all the
way home they’ve been explain-
ing to me that women should
not drink so much and that I
was a bad girl and that if I’d
been in Germany in the war and
so on and so on. And now I’ve
just finished fighting the four of
them off at the door.”
“I’m sure you did it very well.”
I spoke quite sincerely.
“I’ve never fought you off.”
“I've never given you cause.”
“Children! Children! ” said
Ina.
“In any case,” I said, “we’re
rid of them.”
“That is nice,” said Ina. “We
can quietly recover now.”
“Tomorrow,” said Lorna
viciously, “they are coming to
take us to the mountains.”
“Oh, Lorna!” said Ina.
“«7E don’t want Fascists run-
’ ’ ning round the place,” I
said. “The landlord’s bad
enough. You should have done
better. You have been careless.
It’s not like you, Lorna.”
“I had to get inside the door.
I had to get rid of them. I’m
terribly,, terribly tired.”
“What,” said Ina, narrowing
her eyes, “are they taking us-to
the mountains for ?”
“They say it’s to visit the
honeymooners,” said Lorna,
“and I think that’s all they’re
planning.”
“Visit Annette!” I said. “She’s
only just been married.”
“Oh, do stop worrying about
Annette! Think of us.” Lorna
blew her nose violently.
“Annette will probably enjoy
having Germany to lunch. Hans
is probably a bit of a bore.”
“You don’t want us to barge
in on Annette, do you?” said
Ina.
“I don’t imagine that Annette
would want anyone to barge in.
She’s rather naive about
weddings.”
“Then we shan’t go,” said
Ina. “You can put them off
for us. They’re too insistent for
us.”
“They’re coming here to
collect us,” said Lorna.
“Will can answer the door.”
They looked at me.
“Me?” I said. “What will I
say?”
“Anything,” said Ina. “Be
imaginative.”
“Use your notebook,” said
Lorna.
“Well,” I said, thinking of
four frustrated Stormtroopers.
“Well, I suppose I’ve got till
Sunday to think of something.”
'“When I said tomorrow,”
said Lorna, “I meant, of course,
today. It’s after twelve.”
“God help us!” I began.
“If you don’t get rid of them,”
said Lorna, “I’ll never forgive
you ; I’ll make your life a perfect
Hell. You’d better get some rest.
They’ll be here at half-past-
seven.” She gathered her things
together. “Are you sleeping
upstairs?” she asked Ina.
“I’d better,” said Ina, as
though she had the choice. “Will
may need his strength for the
morning.”
AFTER they’d gone I had
another cup of tea and
thought about it all. The whole
thing was ridiculous.
What could one possibly say if
one were a weakling surrounded
by Huns at half-past-seven on a
Saturday morning? What?
What?
I fell asleep thinking about it,
and when the bell woke me it
leapt back into my mind again
and seemed even more ridicu-
lous than before, funnier, more
dreamlike. Hysterical girls, I
thought; unmarried females at a
wedding; too many beers; a
masculine manner . . . But the
bell was ringing again.
I put on my dressing-gown
and answered the door. There
were four of them there, looking
tame enough; not big, not
brawny, not brutal, but fresh-
shaven, young, clean. Ina, I
remembered, said they were in
the Army at fourteen.
“I’ve a message for you,” I
said pleasantly. . “The girls had
to go away for the day. They
were terribly sorry.” I made as
if to close the door.
“Not possible,” said the one
who must be Fritz. He put his
hand out and held the door. ,
“They had to go early,” I
said, articulating clearly and
shouting the way you do at
foreigners. “Gone away.”
“Not possible,” said Fritz,
very firmly. “You are sure?”
“Look,” I said, pointing.
“Their milk’s gone.”
My dramatic gesture dis-
covered three bottles of milk on
the doorstep and I had to try
and look as though they obvi-
ously belonged to other residents.
“They have gone.” .
“Not goot,” said the one who
was Hermann, and he explained
it in German to the other two.
“Why?” said Fritz.
“A telegram,” I improvised.
“For Lorna. She was very
upset. She had —to —go.”
“Why?” said Fritz again.
“Why?”
“Why?” I repeated. “Her
grandmother.”
“But she gave her vord,” said
Hermann in a sad voice. “She
gave her vord.”
“You are sure?” said Fritz,
staring at me. His eyes, I
noticed guiltily, were a positively
steely blue. He ran the thumb
of his left hand round inside his
belt. They were all, I realised
suddenly, wearing thick leather-
belts.
“Quite sure,” I said.
“But she gave her vord"
Hermann sounded incredulous.
“She gave her vord !”
“A woman’s word,” I said.
“A woman’s word.”
“Where is this grandmother?”
said Fritz. Even his questions
were, statements.
“Eastwood,” I answered, with
hardly a pause.
“What number? What
street?”
I invented an address, feeling
I was defying the Gestapo and
conscious all the time of Fritz’s
eyes. He looked worried.
“She gave her vord,” said
Hermann again, but by now the
phrase had lost its pathos. I was
beginning to find it sinister.
“She gave her vord,” he said,
and stared at me, hard.
“A woman’s word, a woman’s
word.” I tried to look man-of-
the-worldish.
“This Eastwood,” said Fritz.
“It is on the road to the
mountains?”
I looked at him. His eyes were
hard as glass. “Yes,” I said.
“We’ will call,” said Fritz.
“The. address, please?”
I repeated it and he wrote it
down in an efficient-looking
address-book. “She promised,”
he said. “Hans will expect us.”
“She gave her vord,” said
Hermann, “and to take her to
the mountain we have hired a
Volkswagen.”,
Not only for patriotic
reasons I shut the door,
so quickly that Fritz dropped the
book he was leaning on it. I
listened at the door till they went
away, Hermann lamenting about
ihr word, and when I heard the
car start I peeped out to make
sure they’d gone.
/CHILDREN, secret - society.
Nazis—l don’t know. Only 1
saw a car full of Germans who
were in the Army at fourteen set
off for the mountains by way of
Eastwood and I wondered what
sort of a honeymoon it could
be with them.


dar Authors
SHINING HARVEST
fay E, V. Timms. The ninth novel
in Timms’s great Australian saga is
set against vivid backgrounds of Paris,
London and N.S.W. 100 years ago.
■l6/" (post 9d.)
,ROAMING ROUND NEW ZEALAND
by Frank dime. Written in hi*
usual graphic style, this record of
the author’s New Zealand tour is
beautifully illustrated with 31 pages
of photographs. 25/- (pb'*t 9«L)
US & ROBERTSON LTD.,
SYDNEY 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C,l
MF 6466..
BLACK COCKATOOS MEAN SNOW
by ELYNE -MITCHELL
This pastoral navel, set in an Australian sheep-farming valley, surrounded
by wild mountains 9 among whose high solitudes men may find wisdom and
peace, unfolds the lives of highly individual people who have become part
of the land they love. It traces the heartbreak of an impossible marriage,
the doubts of a reluctant bachelor, and conveys the satisfaction and genuine
romance of family life.
Retail Price in Australia, 15/6 (postage extra)
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
mnmi: & limited
for a good start to The New Year
BUY
Dead Man’s Folly
by AGATHA CHRISTIE
a full-length Poirot story from The Queen of Crime
vailable Now From All Booksellers
COLLINS —PUBLISHERS
FLYNN’S FLYING DOCTORS
Harry Hudson
The Royal Flying Doctor Service from its inception to the present day.
128 illustrations by the author.
At all booksellers - 25/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
harmonious shrike-thrush, and the
liquid, mellow notes of that arch
flautist, the butcherbird. Shrill cries
from peewees were intermingled with
the raucous calls of stormbirds and a
flycatcher repeatedly whistled a
chromatic scale, as though practising
for a competition.”
“They do seem a bit effervescent,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “but surely they
don’t chase him?”
“The moment he starts his car they’re
on to him,” said Mr. Shean. “The
notes of a butcherbird echoed from
the nearest Moreton Bay ash as he
entered his vehicle and moved
away from Mount Grahame camp-
site. As. he moved away from Marian
(a place, not a maiden, if I read him
rightly) several spur-wing plover were
emitting their staccato yet sad cries
among the rocks in the river, as though
yearning for something unattainable.”
“They were yearning for more of
Mr. Lock,” said Mr. Gallagher. “They
sped him on his way with song. I
remember one time, just as I was
climbing into my vehicle to drive away
from Middle Wallop, when I was visit-
ing England, the whiff-whaff burst
into the most glorious melody it had
ever been known to utter. And the
long melancholy lowing of the great
crested hornbill as we fled from
Tanganyika ... I like Mr. Lock’s
feathered friends.”
“So do I,” said Mr. Shean, “if only
there weren’t quite so many of them,
and if they weren’t stuck on like
postage-stamps. I like all sorts of things
in his book. It is impossible to go
driving and effervescing and warbling
for months around North Queensland,
meeting and paying compliments to
the entire population, industriously
turning over every tombstone, without
dropping on to many a good thing. But
I do wish that Mr. Lock would not
subject me, in the course of his most
estimable researches, to so much
useless information.”
“But how else could he write a
travel-book?” said Mr. Gallagher.
“The whole art of writing a travel-book
is to collect masses of useless informa-
tion, which you care nothing about,
and your reader cares nothing about,
but which, until instantly you forget
it, gives both of you the feeling that
you are being educated.”
“I have an awful feeling that I shall
never forget the Pioneer Sugar Mill,”
said Mr. Shean. “It just won’t melt.
In 1882 the late G. R. Drysdale
acquired the mill from its founders,
Messrs. Spiller and Brandon. He intro-
duced the first irrigation-system from
open lagoon water in this district. In
1884 the output was 740 tons. In
1951”
“If you don’t stop,” said Mr.
Gallagher, “I shall, like the spur-wing
plover, emit a staccato yet sad cry
among the rocks in the Pioneer Sugar
Mill, as though yearning for something
unattainable.”
“But the floor area of Coutts (Pty.),
Ltd., is reputed to be the most spacious
in North Queensland,” said Mr. Shean.
“Thank heavens you told me that,”
said Mr. Gallagher. “That makes all
the difference. Come and effervesce
a little hospitality.”
Reviewed Briefly
Beyond the River’s Mouth: Jack
Harvey (Cassell). From youth in
Western Australia the hero of this
novel goes to sign on as a boy on a
tramp-ship at Melbourne. His life as
seaman takes him all over the world;
a ketch to Tasmania; a freighter to
India; a convoy through the Medi-
terranean; June with her Chevrolet
in New York; Wendy joining the
W.A.A.A.F.s in Melbourne; torpedoed
in convoy from the U.S. around
Iceland. A bleak and in the end grim
picture of the seaman’s life, which, of
course, will hardly deter people from
reading about it or living it.
* * * *
. :
The Mary Deare: Hammond Innes
(Collins). A sailing-ship is almost
run-down by a 6000-ton tramp, lights
on,, steaming through heavy seas, no
one on her bridge. Later the sailing-
ship sights the tramp, the Mary Deare,
again. A salvage-operator on the sailer
boards the tramp; there seems no one
there—and then he sees a man who
calls himself the captain. Follows an
inquiry to determine what happened
to the ship and its real captain ... A
sea-mystery, told with considerable
suspense.
* * * *
The Shepherd’s Calendar and Other
Poems: Spenser, edited by Philip
Henderson (Everyman). First issued
in 1932 in this edition, Spenser’s glassy
finish constitutes no less a challenge
now than then or before then; a
challenge which Mr. Henderson raises
to a virtue:—
To Spenser the idea that “the
style is the man” would have been
meaningless ; to him there were. as
many styles in poetry as there were
kinds. He could well distinguish
between the personal and the
impersonal style in a poet’s work,
and realising this impersonal element
in great poetry he deliberately set
himself to acquire it, as Milton,
Pope, Keats, Shelley and Bridges
did after him, and, as suggested,
largely through him.
If anything could set the student to
studying Spenser it is surely so vast and
so intriguing an assertion as this.
* * * *
The Black Hearse: Frederic Freyer
(Hale). A thriller set between the U.S.
and Europe. The hero is financed in
New’York to produce a picture on the
Continent, and part of the deal is that
he should take across a costly American
car. Then he meets a curious girl he
met under curious circumstances long
ago in New York; she turns out to be
one of the stars in his picture. He
finds eventually that the picture is a
front for some financial jiggerypook
which involves the appearance of a
sinister black hearse at important
points in the story . . . which is
ingenious but forced.
* * * *
Schumann: Joan Chissell (“Master
Musicians” series; Dent). First pub-
lished in 1948, it has been increased
in this 1955 edition from the discoveries
of Wolfgang Boetticher, in the chapter
on piano-music. It is an excellent
example of the series: an admirably
concise 54-page biography, followed
by chapters, with illustrations, on
Schumann’s piano - music, songs,
orchestral music, chamber ■■ music,
choral and dramatic music and on
Schumann as a critic; then a catalogue
of dates in Schumann’s life set against
dates in the lives of other composers
(Schumann was 17'when Beethoven
died, for instance, and 23 when
Brahms and Borodin were born); a
catalogue of his published works (listing
individual songs and movements in
cycles and suites); a list of people in
his life with something about them;
and an index.
*' . * * ■
Another Tree In Eden: David
Duncan (Heinemann), The near
future. Atomic warfare has been
abandoned and a great scheme for
irrigating the deserts of America from
the ocean has been put into practice.
From the salts which remain after the
water has- been purified are extracted
enotigh uranium, gold, stiver, tungsten,
etc., to power the whole project and
to provide- heat for the scheme to cany
the water over the Sierras in the,form
of steam, A new era of hope and pros-
perity for the human race promises.
But the new purified water turns out
to have some strange property which
causes peculiar changes in those who
drink it. From this develops _ the
unusual story.' About scientists, it is
technical in parts but intelligible to
the non-scientific,
* * * *
Funnily Enough: John D. Sheridan
(Dent). A pale shadow' of the days
when essays by Chesterton, Belloc.
E. V. Lucas, etc., were put put-in-neat
little books—-at any rate, it’s a neat
little book-
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 414
Across
I—Main show, if misrepresented, is
effeminate. (8)
s—Wisdom which makes English
audiences laugh? (6)
9 Place in which 5-across and 10-
across are associated. (8)
10— One sketched President Jackson’s
namesake. (6)
12— Relatives permit a change of
views. (5)
13— The more morose King George
has the umpire changed. (8)
16— It may take a bed to grow this
left bed. (4)
17— Demonstrate the truth of a girl
source from which anything is
derived. (10)
19—Publicity assistant, but why
reproachful jn manner. (10)
21— Thin inclination. (4)
24 —The twitch of an Italian keen on
moonlight, poems and kisses.
, e . (8)
*s—Dress-circle artist in many an
old film. (5)
-B—None back her Majesty’s vessels.
(6)
29 Richard, Queen Elizabeth, and
Edward negotiated. (8)
30— Chides a reason for snivelling
in the steamer. (6)
31—Martin’s eats. (8)
Down
1— Disorderly town custom. (4)
2 Rattler Luther swallows spoil
cans. (7)
3 The less untidy enter a muddled
cattle queen. (6)
4 Turf associated with a drink
from a fountain. (4)
6 A decoration —otherwise give a
title to the Northern Territory.
(8)
7 Swallow holding, a market boy
who may visit us some day from
another planet?* (7)
8 — Novel alternative deviates from
the upright setting of “A Street-
car Named Desire.” (3, 7)
11 —Outback worker has some
bowling after getting a quack.
(7)
14— Food is a change for bare clowns.
(5-5)
15 — It is found in the brain region
which attracted the attention of
the Duke of 9-across. (7)
18 —Nudes ran in confusion, being
not yet caught. (8)
20—The little Maine inhabitants to
souvenir. (7)
22 Tariff introduces them to the
place for a spot on leave. (7)
23 — Two boys go to the dog. (6)
26 — Scene vi is given first, and we are
upset. (4)
27 — When Caesar dies, or dies when
changing. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 413


■
IS
■
mm
m ~
"" "«iT
>m
.- k
• -*»
■■■■•
iSsaSB
% m :
.
p. M
;•■ :&>*** «i
. .. -Ss
«3C
121
■ sar: '
::
ft*
fist' :
!?ais te.- ! _g
* *„ VT •* tw *"» 4, ilS
„V$ T ."..» ' ,1
iinij" m;
**iU
ilHMiii
*'■,.'
1
Mrii
~SS.
im?#-
w% # St
!§iiiii»*p ~" ~
' .. :■ :
■
/'I ■-... • v- : .
s*&«**&
l f f'vqSSffi&ZxM
■:• i.’Kv
b ~'*r **h. ■ jT,I
ipHKiK
i ■Vsfirjf
m#m ***** ■• -**■ -*
- ■
Site*
.
:'-■■•
■
,I»J w *»l °*Uv r .<~ r -
***. .^,,.„ <.& <M. wiwu^
; 'JM—.«. ,>,lWt,wJWa««..JWlll» <»»»<•■>•*« ■~>~mM .~..i*A, ...„ «£ . i . ><
Wttt . ■ Mr,~*t........ MMWMVH , , .*«*»«■» ~ ... *»****».. <mW <.>!«««.< ■■ ■■ ■„ « ..,,
SI IB IBP ifegP iH# 1 Js#r ®' r •■■ ;/
1 Msf MW & Mi&m
Head Office of The City Mutual Life
at 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney,
No
Shareholders
ALL PROFITS BELONG TO THE POLICYHOLDERS
To Men of Property
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being
sold to pay death duties? It can happen
to you. Death duties must be paid in
cash before your heirs can inherit. The
City Mutual Life has a policy to provide
this cash so that your assets go
unencumbered to your heirs.
For further information, write, ’phone or
call the nearest office of the Society.
The City Mutual belongs to the policyholders —over 137,000 Australians
who enjoy the protection and security of City Mutual policies. The sur-
plus for last year was a record at Bonuses to policyholders
were substantially raised. Profits are returned to policyholders, each year,
in the form of bonuses.
SAVE INCOME TAX. Don’t pay away in income tax, money that could
be securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember, you can pay up to
£3OO yearly in premiums and deduct it from your income tax return. By this
means, a proportion of your investment in assurance is actually paid for you.
There is a type of City Mutual policy to suit every individual need.
Enquiries, forwarded to our Head Office in your State, will receive immediate
attention, without obligation.
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
Incorporated in N.S.W. iBjB
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 2021.
Q'S&nd■ City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: FA 2371.
W.A • Citv Mutual Building, 62 St. Georges Terrace, Peith.
Telephone: BF 1451.
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: MB 2561.
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William Street, Adelaide.
Telephone: LA 4831.
Tas.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Telephone: B 2504.
