

~c=r
'*s*
SOLERO
SWEET OJR DRY
The Bulletin
PICTURESQUE ISLANDS IDENTITY — PAGE 25
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 77 No. 4008
Wednesday, December 5, 1956
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
EROS STANDS AT THE
CROSSROADS OF THE EMPIRE
IN a city as old as London there can
be few streets and centres which have
not some claim to distinction. Accord-
ing to tradition, if you are looking for
someone you will find him if only you
stand in Piccadilly Circus long enough.
Since it is the hub of the West End, every
visitor to London passes, sooner or later,
through Piccadilly Circus, from which
radiate many of the most famous - of
London’s streets.
Westward from the Circus runs
Piccadilly, the street which bears the same
title as the Circus; the origin of its name
is dubiously connected with the word
“Pickadil,” meaning a ruff or frill.
Northwards from the Circus runs Regent
Street, sweeping in a bold but carefully
controlled quadrant to Oxford Circus.
To the east runs Shaftesbury Avenue, the
street of theatres ; and Coventry Street,
leading to Leicester Square. Haymarket
and Lower Regent Street are the main
arteries running south from the Circus.
Day and night the never-ending flow
of traffic proceeds around this busy
centre, and the pavements are thronged
with people from all the countries of the
world. Presiding over this boisterous
scene is the statue of Eros. Poised on
one precarious foot and with outstretched
wings, he surveys the busy traffic gyrating
round his fountain which stands in the
centre of the Circus.
Eros, the winged archer, was the work
of Sir Alfred Gilbert, for which he
received the sum of £3OOO ; and the
monument was set up in the last years
of the last century in memory of the
Earl of Shaftesbury, a great benefactor
of children. This beautifully sculptured
figure stands above a bronze fountain
with two octagon shaped basins which
are decorated with Cupids. The steps
surrounding the fountain are usually
crowded on warm summer evenings by
those who find entertainment in watch-
ing the innumerable multi-coloured
lights and signs which flash around the
Circus, adding gaiety and excitement to
the hub of London. On nights of
celebration,, such as the Cup Final or
Boat Race, the fountain is guarded by a
ring of policemen to discourage those
whose ambition is to climb to the summit
of Eros.
No. 326: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STORY WRITING &
FREELANCE JOURNALISM!
1 TARN AT HOMT
. . . and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a big demand for well-written
work. Bead these extracts from the letters
of STOTT-Students:—
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“'During the past six months my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting-.’ The amount I
shall receive for this article alone will
almost pay for my Course.”
“During the Course, I sold five stories,
which more than paid for my fees.”
mmßMmm
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
" St.. Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
———CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(S.B. 2356)
1500KHlJN TER, Box 2671, G.F.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—-fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only it suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
"ROBBERY UNDER ARMS"
A letter written by Rolf Boldrewood
(T. A. Browne) to J. G. Lockley (“Red-
gum”), who used to run Lockley’s Library
in Hunter-street, Sydney, has been
brought to The Bulletin by Mr. H. H. I.
Massie, a grandson of Robert George
Massie, who married Annette Browne,
the novelist’s sister.
Obviously in reply to queries from
Lockley, it gives precise details of who
was who in Robbery Under Arms,
shortly to be made into a film by the
J. Arthur Rank organisation, and also
settles the question of the exact location
of “Terrible Hollow,” the gully where
the stolen cattle were hidden —-it has
been reported that Rank agents flew to
the Kimberleys to look for a suitable
gorge.
The Massies themselves, apart from
the connection with Boldrewood, were —
and are —quite a family. Mr. H. H. I.
Massie is a leading Sydney architect and
consulting-engineer. His father, H. H.
Massie, played Test cricket for Australia
at the Oval in 1882 ; and another of the
family, R. J. A. Massie, was also thought
to be of Test standard until he was
wounded on Gallipoli.
Robert George Massie was one
of a family of 22 children ; of whom,
while one married T. A. Browne, another,
Lucy, married Sir Frederick Darley,
Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor of
N. S. Wales.
Boldrewood’s original letter came back
into the Massie family from Lockley’s
hands ; and, until her death last year (at
99£), wax in the possession of Miss Hester
Massie.
Here, signed T. A. Browne, is the
letter:
18th Sept., 1907.
Dear Mr. L„
I have your letter of 13th and
willingly accede to your request. I
remember you very well at Mr.
Maddock’s, and, noting your intelligent
management of the library business,
prophesied a rise in life for you—l
trust it has satisfied your aspirations.
With reference to “Robbery Under
Arms,” the leading actor, “Starlight,”
was made up of several characters
whose adventures I worked in—for
instance, Sergeant Wallings, of the
Dubbo police, was shot dead by a man
[known] as “Midnight” in the same
way as “Starlight” shoots Goring in the
book.
The Marston brothers were portraits
—the men very fine specimens of the
“native bom” Australian who had
taken the wrong road—more’s the pity!
If the Boer War had been on at the
time they would have distinguished
themselves.
I saw a horse come to a goldfields
meeting and win the big handicap
much as Rainbow does in the story.
He was stabled in a tent where the
owner (a groom; an old jockey) slept
himself. One of the stewards told him
he would be late and to hurry up—
“ Never was late in my life” (he
croaked). “Won’t yer start at the
advertised time?” taking out a big old
watch. He mounted with great
deliberation and won—“by the length
of a street.” A protest was entered,
but no sufficient evidence was
furnished that he was entered in a
wrong name —so the old man saddled
up, took his money and went off. I
never saw him again.
“Midnight” was tracked up by the
police to the Queensland boundary.
They shot his horse and mortally
wounded him. He refused to tell his
real name to the police'when he was
dying.
The father of Dick and Jim was
drawn from an old-hand that I knew,
said to have been transported for
poaching.
The four warders that were shot in
cold blood belong to “another story,”
also the bank-robbery.
“Terrible Hollow” is a real place
on the Gwydir River, New England,
New South Wales. I knew the
inspector-of-police who arrested the
Queensland cattle- and horse-stealers
who planted stolen cattle and horses
there. The walls were said to be
3000 ft. high there, and there was a
narrow stony gully the only pathway
into or out of it. The convicts knew it
in old times, but for many years no
one else.
The stealing of a thousand head of
cattle from the Mount Cornish Inn,
where at that time there was said to be
sixty thousand head, was a fact, and,
with such immense herds of cattle as
were then known to be in Queensland,
was quite possible.
In the winter the cattle “made back”
in great distances, and were not
mustered until spring, so that it was
comparatively easy to build yards and
muster a large lot without any of the
people “on the frontage” being any
the wiser. As a matter of fact, I saw
the man who was credited with being
the leader and manager of the expedi-
tion—the imported bull fixed the
evidence. The real culprit was a
splendid bushman and a grand-looking
fellow.
The Australian girls Bella and
Maddie Barnes, also Aileen Marston,
were specimens of the ordinary bush
natives, many of whom are remark-
ably good-looking and superior in
appearance, education and refinement
to the average of the female British
peasantry.
A man named Pelly, known as
“Major Pelly,” who died in West
Australia, and a bushranger named
Frank Gordon [Gardiner?] were both
erroneously said to be the models for
“Starlight”—but such was not the case.
Pioneers from Australia
There are many direct links with
Australia in the history of the N.Z.
county which Mr. W. J. Gardner
writes about in The Amuri: a book
which is published by the Amuri
County Council in celebration of the
Canterbury centennial. The Amuri is
a practically invisible speck of plains
and mountains in the South Island, and
Mr. Gardner has celebrated it, in 432
pages, with a massive and intricate
dignity worthy of a history of the
British Empire.
But the county, when you get to
close-quarters with it, is a speck of
respectable dimensions: 2256 square-
miles, valued today at £2,813,655 and
originally bought from the Maoris
(who used it only to walk through on
their way to the mountains for green-
stone, or occasionally as a refuge from
tribal warfare) for a total of £2000;
and its history, if Mr. Gardner has
necessarily made it chiefly of local
appeal, has.patches to interest a wider
audience.
One of the district’s principal
pioneers was George Rutherford,
who emigrated from Scotland to
Sydney in 1839, settled first at Yass,
N. S. Wales, moved to the Edward
River, then to Kulnine on the lower
Murray, then to Adelaide to educate
his children (the nearest school to his
Kulnine property was 300 miles away)
and finally, in 1860, across the Tasman
to. the Amuri —sailing, as so many of
the wealthier pioneers did, as fully-
equipped as the Swiss Family
Robinson: —
The party consisted of George
Rutherford, his two eldest sons
(Andrew aged eighteen, and William,
sixteen), their half-brother Walter;
William Lewis, a carpenter, and his
wife.... besides 268 stud-rams....
thirteen bullocks, eleven horses, one
pony and a mule.
The Rutherfords also brought a
bullock named Mizzen, who, for some
reason, was so cherished that he is
commemorated to this day in Mizzen
Peak, the second-highest point in the
Amuri’s Leslie Hills. And it was
Andrew Rutherford, writing home to
his mother in Australia, who set down
for all time the perfect description of
this austere country —the heights of
which, in a more recent period of settle-
ment, were lately described in one of
the best little books to come out of
New Zealand for years, B. Stronach’s
“Musterer on Molesworth” ...
“I like this country,” wrote young
Andrew Rutherford; “nothing but grass
and wind.” He should have added,
though, and no doubt he did, snowy
mountains on the perimeter and wild
rivers rushing through it,
There were other Australian
pioneers—known, says Mr. Gardner,
as “shagroons,” which does not seem
altogether polite, though perhaps it
was well-meant:—
During the ’sixties and ’seventies
the Australian element, quietly rein-
forced and maintained, dominated in
the Amuri, just as it dominated the
early pastoral history of Canterbury.
. The better type of shagroon (there
were many of the worse) were hardy,
resourceful men with a great eye
for country. They had seen sheep
and sheep-farming in many parts of
a great continent, but they were
always ready to ride off again, to see
better country, better sheep and
better ways of raising them.
This Australian element was
represented in the ownership and
management of most of the Amuri
runs. Besides the Rutherfords at
Leslie Hills, Mendip Hills, Sherwood
and Montrose [the land these
pioneers sat upon!] and Tinline at
Lyndon, there were F. C. Tabart,
J. H. Davison, H. J. Mcllraith,
T. H. Wigley, William du Moulin
and J. and D. McArthur. Lyndon
and Highfield were owned by Aus-
tralian partners, the former by
South Australians, and the latter by
Tasmanians.
Mr. Gardner traces the Amuri’s
prosperity back to John Macarthur’s
establishment of the wool-industry in
Australia, and the district would prob-
ably have been stocked with Australian
sheep, only the goldrushes and the
land-boom were on over here when
the first runs were being opened-up and
both sheep and shipping were scarce.
The sheep had to come overland from
the neighboring province of Nelson, by
tracks known only to the Maoris (who
usually forgot them halfway); and one
whole flock, of which it appears only
a few stragglers were founa later, got
lost: —
“In a state of mind bordering on
desperation,” Clifford ascended the
highest peak... . From the summit
he saw to the south-east “at perhaps
a distance of thirty or forty miles
. .. . . what appeared to be plains, with
clumps of bush scattered here and
there, a river running through
them.” In the foreground lay “a
sea of hi 115”.... Once again Clifford
could see no way forward, and his
sheep were too exhausted to face
the trip back through the mass of
“spear-grass and low wild Irishman,
mixed up with long grass.” He
had no alternative but to abandon
the flock and return to Flaxbourne.
The first explorer into the district,
William Heaphy—or one of the first;
the point is difficult to determine —got
himself almost as hopelessly lost as
the sheep. He hurt himself falling
down a mountain; ran out of food
and lived on thistles; and at one time
—-though he recovered and plodded
back to safety—“laid himself down
exhausted in as open a space as he
could pick out, placing his pocket-
book and chart in a conspicuous situa-
tion, with no hope of ever rising again,
and with the very so-so satisfaction of
thinking that some passer-by might see
his body or his bones.”
Thus, over Heaphy’s fortunately
salvaged bones, the way was opened
for the settlers; and among these, as
well as the Rutherfords, one must not
fail to mention “Dick the Philosopher,”
a humble but legendary soul described
in a footnote (he was a shearer); and,
quite the most striking character in
Mr. Gardner’s gallery, the fiery George
Duppa who mixed in politics, kept
racehorses, made a fortune in the
Amuri and retired to England to play
the village-squire; and whose formid-
able talents for business can be judged
from this sample of his conversation
with a neighbor: “I want to speak to
you on business, damn friendship and
that sort of thing, you know I owe you
one, and I sold my run to get money
to pay you off. I shall bid against you
at the sale . . . Oh, damn agreements
in writing. I shall bleed you.”
The book, with a colored frontispiece
and an immense amount of detailed
information on the county, has been
very handsomely produced.
“The Singing Gold"
Mr. Frederick T. Macartney com-
plains (R.P. 21/11/’56) that the Red
Page reviewer of Dorothy Cottrell’s
Singing Gold (R.P. 24/10/’56) quoted
a passage from the revised edition of
Australian Literature as having been
written by “Morris Miller,” whereas it
should have been referred to as Mr.
Macartney’s writing (“my writing,” as
he says).
Perhaps, in future, the reviewer
might show a punctilious exactitude,
even bordering on the “definitive,” and
refer to this very passage as “Morris
Miller’s writing, based on original
sources, rearranged and variantly
edited by Frederick T. Macartney!”
This statement may be confirmed by
a comparison of pages 580-1 of the
1940 volumes with page 125 of the
1956 edition.
E. Morris Miller.
Reviewed Briefly
Springtime: J. B. Morton (Con-
stable); Subtitled “Tales of the Cafe
R leu,” this collection of stories about
artists, poets, their patrons and
mistresses in the Latin quarter of Pans
is so very close in manner and material
.to Murger’s immortal “La Vie de
Scheme” that, except that it is faintly
up to date and brings in Cubism and
whatnot, it can hardly be said to lead
a separate existence. It has a dim,
nostalgic charm, like the champagne
left over from last night’s party.
* * * *
The Awkward Age: Justine Glass
(Peter Owen). The problems of
adolescence discussed by a lady who
was for eight years beauty-editor of
the London “Daily Sketch,” when she
had to answer 4500 letters a week.
Miss Glass has an unusual collection
of “flower-remedies” for difficult teen-
agers: a tired, day-dreaming boy who
caught a lot of colds was put on
clematis, “the properties of which
counteract lack of interest,” and a
youth who irritated his family by
constantly tapping his foot was dosed
with larch —he is now “working happily
and contentedly in a hotel.”
* * * *
By Jumping Cat Bridge: Kenneth
McNeill Wells (Heinemann). A
Canadian journalist - turned - farmer,
writing about the ducks and bees and
weather on his four acres in Ontario.
It doesn’t seem exactly necessary for
journalists and their wives, even when
released in the countryside, to sing
“Tra-la, tra-la!” all through the spring-
time—“ Spring was singing. Spring was
ringing her bells, her million bells.
‘Spring!’ shrilled Lucy. ‘Tra-la, tra-
la!’ ‘Tra-la!’ I boomed” —but there
is a pleasant pig that ran off in a
neighbor’s wife’s nightdress.
* * * *
The Atom of Delight: Neil M. Gunn
(Faber). Those who have enjoyed Mr.
Gunn’s novels of the Highlands will
also enjoy this autobiography, though
a bit more Highlands and a bit less
metaphysics would be welcome.
Before and after he catches a salmon
with his bare hands, and even while he
is doing it, Mr. Gunn meditates so
profusely on life, time and psychology
that the fish gets just about drowned.


STORE OPENS 8.30 A.M.
A "TRUTH fN ADVERTISING .
nthony Horderns’
HAVE BREAKFAST WITH VS
SBSiiff
an
Mlilli
i
iiti
S' - : x
m
H i
Hi
■
*#?
HH
a
.
3*
:
• 'v :
/
§M
m
I
fmwfll ill ' ■ ,- •
Isigs^
:•
■:
: . :•"•■.
ssgg
SSsSwS
000^"
iiiiiiiiiiafffiffrr 8
iJ
1
' - :" : 1’..""
BUY YOUR NEW
ADMIRAL TV SET
from
£29
deposit
AND THREE YEARS TO PAY
We guarantee that every TV set you purchase from Anthony Horderns’ is brand new, factory
fresh and has never been a demonstration model, therefore you get the full life from your
cathode ray tube. Also we can give you immediate delivery [ for this famous Television set.
TRUTH IN .ADVERTISING
80951
RADIO AND ELECTRICAL DEPT., GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. ’PHONE 80951 FOR SERVICE!


The Bulletin
Wed/iesday, December 5, 1956
Vol. 77—No. 4008
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams,
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place 1 , Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Wellington.
OUR MASTERS IN U.N.
T)HE outstanding feature of Middle East develop-
ments is the exhibition it has made of world
“peace” organisations.
The United Nations came into existence on
October 24, 1945, with the blessing of starry-eyed
Leftists like Dr. Evatt and Mr. Frankie Forde and
amid the sardonic grins of the Stalins and the
Molotovs. Some of the Pink founders are still
starry-eyed, and .Molotov, at any rate, is still
grinning; but for the world at large the “United”
Nations has been more of a disaster than the League
of Nations, providing a platform on which the
members could stage their fights in the open and
an organisation which could be used by ambitious
great Powers for their own selfish ehds by dictating
or influencing the actions of satellites.
A glimpse at the world organisation of busy-
bodying nations which has grown up since the war
reveals an alarming picture. U.N. has become a
body used by the United States to thwart Russia,
by Russia to thwart the United States, and by both
to wreck the British Commonwealth as it existed
in 1945.
The key U.N. positions seem all round to
be held by Americans or by Communists or
nationals of small nations.
There is, beside, a bloc of 21 nations—“all
members on a basis of absolute equality”—in the
Organisation of American States. They are all
equal, from the Dominican Republic upwards, in
their firm adherence in U.N. organisations to a
single main policy which seems to have been made
in Washington.
As in the United Nations, nearly all the key
administrative positions in the O.A.S. are filled
from Washington, but the initiative shown by these
countries (of which Cuba’s leadership of the attack
on Britain and France last week was a fair
example) in following leads which strengthen the
U.S. and help to dismember the British Common-
wealth and destroy British influence is remarkable.
As a bloc they form nearly a third of the
effective, voting-strength of the United Nations,
and their histories as democracies are illuminating.
Argentina’s Government was created in bloody
revolution; Bolivia’s Government came into power
by force (1952); in Brazil, speech and the press are
not free and there is not absolute freedom of
political organisation; Chile has a popular Govern-
ment of sorts, better than most; Colombia’s Presi-
dent came into power in 1953 by a revolutionary
seizure of the Government; Costa Rica is a nation
half the size of Victoria, with a population of
800,000; Cuba is governed by virtue of a military
seizure of power; the Dominican Republic was
occupied by American marines for eight years before
1924, and it lives under a dictatorship of force
applied by the unpleasant Trujillo, who has been in
complete control outside the Constitution for some
years; nobody seems able to agree as to exactly what
territory constitutes Ecuador, the U.N. estimate
differing from others by as much as 70 per cent.;
El Salvador is smaller than Alexandria station in
the Northern Territory, and is governed by a
dictatorship of the “Revolutionary Party of
Democratic Unity”; Guatemala’s Government was
established by revolution in 1954 (it is half the size
of Victoria); Haiti is an unstable negro island
of 10,000 square miles, which was occupied by the
U.S. for 19 years before 1934, and its Government
was established by a military juqta in 1950; the
President of Honduras lit-out for foreign parts in
October, 1954, and was replaced by a dictator who
has never since succeeded in compiling an electoral
register (its area is a third bigger than Tasmania,
the population about the same as Melbourne);
Mexico, which takes little part in U.N. affairs, is,
of course, a large nation with a population of
25,000,000; Nicaragua uses the “Australian ballot”
at elections —i.e., ballot-papers not printed by
political parties, as seems to be the usual thing in
the Americas. The reigning President of Nicaragua,
“backed by the army, has no effective opposition.”
Panama is the size of Tasmania. Its President
was chief-of-police, who succeeded to Presidential
office when the former Vice-President was charged
with assassinating the present gentleman’s prede-
cessor in October, 1952. It lives out of the Panama
Canal and the registrations of U.S. shipowners who
wish to avoid home taxation, and has a large adverse
trade-balance with the United States. Paraguay is
two-thirds the size of Victoria, with half that State’s
population. It is governed by. a President who is
“head of the Army,” and had no opponent when
he was elected and no votes against him at a poll
at which nearly 4000 brave electors out of 240,000
turned in blank ballot-papers. Peru lives under a
military junta and a President who made a
“successful coup” in 1948. There is now a Congress,
but it acts on the “or else” principle with bayonets
at its jugular-vein. Uruguay has a party in power
which has been there for 85 years; it is smaller
than Victoria, with about the same population.
The President of Venezuela, which is part of the
U.S.- oil-empire, assumed office by “judgment of
the armed forces,” confirmed, of course, by servile
Constitutional agencies. Its hothouse oil-
civilisation is distinguished by an infantile mortality
of 68 per 1000 of live births.
Add to these great nations (all equals of the
United States in the Organisation of American
States and of the U.K. and Australia in the U.N.)
Liberia, Irak, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon,
Afghanistan, Egypt, Indonesia (whose Govern-
ment has just been denounced for its corruption
by its own resigning Vice-President), Israel, Persia,
Yemen, Albania, Bulgaria, Ethiopia, Greece, the
Irish Republic, and one has a pretty good conspectus
of the membership of the United Nations, which
is “open to all peace-loving States recommended
by the Security Council.”
All these are entitled to be represented by
equal numbers of delegates at Assembly meetings
and to have in the Assembly equal voting-powers
with the great nations.
It is about time we got out of this gaggle of
unstable and cackling agents of the world’s power-
manipulators and into a position in which the
British Commonwealth is able to choose its own
agents, become the keeper once more of its own
conscience and make its own friends.
Not until this is done will it be possible for
us to live as equals with the United States.
At present Washington is mired by its own
associations and shamed by its policies. It is a
sad thing to see, more especially when it is
remembered that if'the U.S. h£d not been so com-
pletely isolationist in 1939 and had stood by the
rest of the world in a determination to prevent the
advance of Nazism an inch further, there might
have been no Second World War; also, that if it
had worked in line with its English-speaking allies
during the latter part of the war, instead of with
Stalin, there would have been no Russian
expansion.
President Eisenhower has said that differences
with the U.K. and France affect only a particular
incident and should not be construed as a weaken-
ing of the great bonds that have so long joined our
nation with the United Kingdom and France. But
if this is so his conception of the nature of the
bonds differs from that of the U.K. and France,
which are not prepared to accept as conditional to
it the right of Washington to put its allies in the
comer and summon the Liberians, Yemenites and
Haitian negroes to share in taking a whack at them
while in disgrace. International bonds imply
equality as between great Powers.
Tariff-makers At Work
A STATUTORY authority which conducts most
of its proceedings in public but which in ordinary
times attracts little public notice is the Australian
Tariff Board. The prescribed purpose of . the
body is “to assist the Minister in the administra-
tion of matters relating to trade and Customs,” and
it is required to inquire into and report upon such
matters as claims for new, increased or reduced
duties; the necessity for granting bounties; com-
plaints of undue advantage being taken of tariff-
protection; general effect of the working of the
tariff.
In the year ended June- 30, 1956, the board
held public inquiries covering 32 subjects and
involving, in addition to a large amount of confi-
dential evidence, 4Q44 pages of transcript taken
from evidence tendered by 331 witnesses. - The
range of subjects was wide—small items such as
purse-frames, tinned fish, tape for zip-fasteners,
screwdrivers and passionfruit juice; cotton piece-
goods, metal-working machines, motor-vehicles,
locomotives. The board’s annual report summarises
some of the reports it handed to the Minister
during the year. These are interesting in that they
illustrate the way the board works and the principles
which guide it. As an example, in rejecting the
application of a company mining asbestos in
Westralia for a duty of 40 per cent, on imported
asbestos, with an exemption for imports used in
combination with at least 15 per cent, of Australian
asbestos, the board said that the company had given
scant consideration to the effect of its proposals
on Australian companies using asbestos and, in
turn, on the community.
In a different category was the application of
another company for a duty on “record-changing
devices,” following upon two previous unsuccessful
applications.
The board said it believed the co. had increased
its efficiency and that with more opportunity to
compete it should be able to reduce costs still
further. As the industry was still in the develop-
mental stage, it considered a case for*protection had
been established; a duty of per cent, was
therefore recommended.
The board-is continually faced with the problem
of deciding relative standards of efficiency. Its
policy is “not to recommend assistance to an
industry that ip not reasonably efficient,” but it
doesn’t lay down a rule that every section of an
industry seeking protection shall achieve the same
standard as the most efficient concern in that
industry. “Because one manufacturer with a large
share of the market can continue without assist-
ance, should the other manufacturer be deprived
of assistance on the grounds that it is inefficient?”
The board thinks not, and prefers to judge each case
on its merits.
Another debatable question is the relative
values of bountibs and duties as forms of protection.
Both problems entered into a determination on
assistance to the tractor-industry last year. The
industry already enjoys protection by bounty.
Further assistance was sought. The board decided
that the time had not arrived for replacing the
bounty by a duty, but that it was evident that
increased bounty payments hadn’t produced any
substantial increase in the output of tractors. It
considered the form of assistance needed was
bounty-cum-duty, “with the bounty element
decreasing and the duty element increasing.” It
recommended a small duty as likely to provide a
greater stimulus than a higher bounty, adding that
this “would be an indication for the future of a
trend towards tariff-protection rather than the
relatively insecure and restrictive method of
bounty.”
On the other hand, a bounty was granted on
cellulose-acetate flake on the grounds that “due to
the interchangeability of viscose textile products
with those of cellulose acetate composition” a duty
on the acetate would be, an undesirable form pf
protection.
Quite apart from its primary function, the
Tariff Board renders* a valuable service to industry
and the country by the industrial and economic
surveys with which it prefaces the annual reports on
its operations.
Referring to suggestions that the tariff should
be used as a medium through which the rationing
of imports could be controlled, the board clearly
sets its face against such a proposition. Any attempt
to use the tariff as a control or do manipulate the
protective rates “to make them perform some
function other than that of protection would tend
to destroy the work of over 30 years.”
The board holds no brief for import-
restrictions —by obscuring the normal trends of
trade they make its task much more difficult —
but: —
If control were exercised through the tariff
the impermanence of protection would have an
unsettling effect on trade and industry generally
of far greater disruptive character than that which
has resulted from the “stop-and-go” application of
import-restrictions.
The board- stresses, as “The Bulletin” has often
stressed, that in the long run the balance-of-
payments position can only be corrected by
increasing export earnings. This means more
exports of manufactured goods; primary products
cannot carry the burden alone.
A prerequisite of increased exports is increased
production, which, in turn, calls for greater
co-operation between employers, employees and
Governments.
Full employment has many advantages for
both employees and employers; to the employee it
gives security, and to the employer it gives a
customer with money to spend. It can, however,
be wrecked by abuses Both sides have so much
to gain from full employment that the call is now
clearly for co-operation to make sure that the
uncontrollable disadvantages of the policy vrill not
get out of hand and create economic conditions
that could result in unemployment.
While urging the necessity for exports, the
board is conscious of the competition, actual or
potential, of low-cost countries which offer a
challenge even on our home-market.
The board cannot see how the challenge can
be met unless management possesses leadership ot
the highest competence and can call on technica
planners and workers of a standard apparently not
available in sufficient numbers at present son-
larly, there is scope in some labor organisations
for a better understanding of the economic pro -
lems created by uninhibited demands for sUI
higher wages management and employees are
entitled to the clearest lead from and sympatne i
treatment by the various Governments concerned
and the co-operation and goodwill of all those
« engaged in industry.
Co-operation and goodwill are two com-
modities that have been in short supply m Australia
in recent years. Anyone who can supply me
for increased production of them will have gon
a long way towards solving most other production
problems as well. - jfJ*:


WHO DO YOU LIKE, IKE?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Unionism and Force
The drift towards Communist methods
in the “Labor” party is marked anew by
the drive which is being organised by the
illegal N. S. Wales A.L.P. executive to
produce “100 per cent, unionism” in the
State, with a view to increasing member-
ship of the unions and party.
It has been decided by a joint organis-
ing-committee of the A.L.P. and the
unions affiliated with it that after
January 1 members will not work with
non-unionists. Transport-workers will
refuse to carry goods to factories which
employ non-unionists.
The moves highlight two facts. One
is that Mr. Cahill’s compulsory-unionism
legislation proved disastrous and tended
to drive men out of some of the bigger
and more glowering organisations like
the Transport Workers’ Union, which
claims to have lost 5000 members and
£17,500 a year in revenue ; also, that at
least 100,000 unionists in are
unfinancial and the overbearing union-
bosses need money.
The new bludgeoning scheme is aimed
not merely to force men utterly at
variance with every principle the A.L.P.
now stands for into the unions to subsi-
dise the “Labor” party. It is also to be
used against the members of the Demo-
cratic Labor party. A large number of
moderate workers who belong to no
union or party seem to be finding a home
in Mr. Manning’s new body, and it is
felt that if they can be forced into unions
the unions will be able to deal with them
more effectively and dragoon them and
their wives into seeing the “Labor”
light.
Compulsory-unionism, applied by force
of union bullying, is just as objectionable
as, or more so than, the Government
variety. It is a wicked invasion of the
political rights of a man of Liberal-party
or Country-party principles to force him
to belong to a body which is affiliated
with *the kind of “Labor” party which
now exists in N.S.W., which is as near
to the Communist party in its aims and
thinking as is possible. It is just as
vile that unions should contemplate an
overriding of the law which under many
awards permits persons with conscientious
objections to remain outside the unions.
That anybody should be compelled to
support the Evatt Labor party with his
funds through union subsidies is as much
against public policy as that those who
object should be forced to come into a
union in which they can be tried and
punished, harassed or persecuted and
fined by union officials.
However, that the lawless rulers of
“Labor” have it in mind to impose com-
pulsion does not mean that they can do
so with impunity. One of these days
somebody will come down on the
perpetrators of these illegal pressures on
decent workers with a thumping claim
for damages at common law, thus estab-
lishing a precedent which will make the
guilty parties very sorry for themselves.
Fortunately, there is still a law in the
land which would compensate any man
who was illegally deprived by thugs and
party-politicians of his legal right to live.
Art in the Money
During the Olympic festival in Mel-
bourne attendances at the Commonwealth
Bank’s Victorian head-office in Collins-
street have been more like those at a
musical-comedy hit than at a mere collec-
tion of Australiana; by the time the
main stadium is cleaned up about 250,000
will have viewed it.
The originator was Dick Ovenden, the
artist whose caricatures appeared fre-
quently in The Bulletin in the ’twenties,
who had booked the Athenaeum gallery
for a show by the Aranda watercolorists
and others during the Games in the belief
that the visitors would like to see a
collection of paintings by Albert
Namatjira (and the other aboriginal
artists developed by Rex Battarbee) and
representative Australian artists.
In response to the Lord Mayor’s appeal
to business-houses to do their duty by the
Olympic guests, Lenard Dooling, chief
manager in Victoria for the bank, invited
Ovenden to bring his show to the head-
office, and the artist was very happy to
decorate the main business-chamber, as
well as the bank’s big lounge, with his
hangings.
Dooling also flew in wildflowers, chiefly
from West Australia; brought down many
of the sculptures of William Ricketts
from his Mountain Gallery in the
Dandenongs, just outside Melbourne ; and
put in an attractive display of Australian
timbers from Alstergren’s.
The response was immediate and pro-
longed, and on some days the bank has
had to delegate attendants to keep the
queue moving. Whether the bank has
won anything more than hearty goodwill
and gratitude will not be known until
next year’s accounts are published; but
at this writing Ovenden had sold about
£3OOO-worth of paintings. He was
literally and physically in the big money.
Dooling looks like Jack when he first
saw the beanstalk.
Holidays Plus
“D.”: Most Victorians find the State
public servant an affable enough fellow,
and the way to the top in the service is
usually along the path of conscientious
duty; but he received ample time off to
keep him sweet-tempered long before the
current proposal to give him 11 days
at Christmas, or the equivalent with extra
days after the New Year.
This financial year he is receiving 21
days’ annual leave; six public holidays,
five Easter days and the Olympic holiday,
aside from the Christmas-New Year holi-
day. Long-service leave of six months
comes after 20 years, and cumulative sick-
leave, after the same period, is at the rate
of eight days a year on full-pay and eight
on half-pay.
There has been a tradition in State
politics of paying the public service miser-
ably, due, no doubt, to the hostile
influence of the Victorian Country party
to city workers —any city workers. In
the latest determination, however, the
public servant has been adequately
rewarded, aside from his security and
superannuation, compared with the man
in competitive employment; and a second
lot of annual holidays at Christmas-time
is too much of a good thing.
Taxing Artists
Bolte has promised a review of 1 the new
entertainment-tax (which has now come
into operation in Victoria) if cinema
attendances are reduced substantially and
the Government wins its case against
uniform taxation in the High Court next
year.
Cinema-proprietors are perturbed at
their prospects, with less spending-money
in the. hands of picturegoers, additional
charges for seats and the impact of tele-
vision, which received a flying start in
and its environs from the
interest in the Olympic Games.
An even sounder case could be estab-
lished for the abolition of entertainment-
taxi on theatre-tickets; but the theatre,
despite its great following in the capital
cities, has no spokesman—or, at least, no
spokesman who makes himself heard
effectively.
A tax on Australian theatre-seats is a
levy on artistic employment in a country
from which a substantial number must
depart to follow their bent. The theatre
uses all the arts —writing, music, dancing,
painting, singing—and its production-
costs have risen enormously in recent
years, necessitating high prices which
bring them into the high entertainment-
tax scale.
Decisive Hour for 1.L.0.
“Stromlo”: Can the 37-year-old Inter-
national Labor Office regain its character
as a tripartite organisation, representing
Governments, employers and employees
by nations? If not, should Australia con-
tinue its expensive representation on a
body in which, to quote Sir Richard
Snedden, U.K. employers’ delegate, at the
meeting in Geneva last June, there are
at least eight delegations in which those
haphazardly labelled employers and
workers are bound to their Governments
hand and foot, body and soul, and who
dare not deviate one inch from the party
line,
and at which the tripartism of which
1.L.0. was once so proud was described
as “a mere optical illusion”?
The decision will depend on the meeting
of the governing body scheduled for this
month, but as this is written the Aus-
tralian Government has given no hint
of its intentions, in spite of the strong
plea for decision by the Australian
employers’ representative at the same
conference, Mr. L. C. Burne.
The report of the Australian delegation
(a tripartite one as usual) was tabled in
Parliament in Canberra in the closing
weeks of the sittings, and as usual received
little attention in the newspapers. Yet it
poses questions which demand urgent
attention by the Government, by
employers and by workers, including the
crucial issue of the representation at
1.L.0. meetings of Communist countries’
“employers.”
In it the Australian Government repre-
sentatives, Dr. I. G. Sharp and Mr. G. A.
Jockel, do not commit themselves on the
question, merely remarking that most
employers seemed to favor amendment of
the constitution to preclude representa-
tives of socialised industry from being
“employers’ delegates,” and that the
majority of Government speakers, includ-
ing those from the U.K. and Italy,
opposed constitutional amendment.
However, a careful reading of the
report discloses that the Australian
Government representatives voted with the
majority which supported the credentials
of the “employers’ ” representatives from
Bulgaria, Rumania, Byelo-Russia, Czecho-
slovakia, Hungary, Poland, the Ukraine
and the U.S.S.R., and that the Australian
employers’ and the workers’ delegates
each voted with the minority.
(It also discloses, as a matter of interest
which may have some bearing on the
subject, that on the question of the creden-
tials of the workers’ delegates from Spain,
which were challenged and on which the
Australians again divided, the employer
and worker delegates from the Soviet
countries “for the first occasion... .voted
not only differently from each other,
but also differently from their Govern-
ments.”)
The Australian Government delegates
admit that the conference was rendered
“more complex” by the presence of dele-
gations from Communist countries, and
that, “on the surface, was lacking in its
customary coherence.” At the same time
they claim that the Communist delega-
tions played an adequate part in the tech-
nical work of the conference, and except
for “one or two minor outbursts in the
plenary session” carried out their work
in a “less explosive manner than previ-
ously and with noticeable reduction in
overt propaganda.”
Their general finding is that 1.L.0. has
been through a phase in which the con-
ference techniques have been severely
tested, that its practices have proved them-
selves, and that while adaptation may be
needed in the next year or so, there is an
increasing feeling that there is little
wrong with the basic methods used by
the organisation in its work, and that with
minor modifications “they can cope with
any new pressure which might arise.”
Mr. Bume, speaking of the split vote,
said “it was not unexpected, but neverthe-
less disappointing, that the Australian
Government should vote with the Com-
munist bloc,” a statement which will be
understood by all who have followed the
course of 1.L.0. in recent years but not
any more palatable because of its un-
doubted truth. He added to his report a
recommendation for an urgent decision
by the Government before the meeting
of the governing body, saying it was
no longer a matter of political expediency,
or the intrusion of managers of nationalised
industries into 1.LT.0., but the question of
the survival and rights of free competitive
employers as a distinct unit in the tripartite
character of 1.L.0.
The Government can’t afford to delay
much longer in making-up its mind on
the subject. Before it does so, Ministers
could profitably devote some time to
reading the report. It might accelerate a
decision.
On fo Imperialism
“Ek Dum” : In the light of more detailed
information than has been published in
the Australian papers about the proceed-
ings over Suez, the behavior of the United
Nations and United States becomes more
and more bewildering.
Even the sober American papers find
difficulty in supporting the implacable
attitude of President Eisenhower and Mr.
Dulles —for though he is a sick man Mr.
Dulles is still Secretary of State. Not only
has the President refused to approve the -
British-French action, but it is clear that
he has refused to even meet British and
Australian Ministers.
Mr. Hoover, who is acting for Mr.
Dulles, is said to have rebuffed Mr.
Casey, who (according to the “Times”)
put forward suggestions that the presence
of U.N. forces in Egypt be
used so as to ensure a start
on negotiations for permanent solu-
tions of Middle Eastern questions and
that teeth should get put into the initial
emergency-force of U.N. by the inclusion
of strong troop elements, including those
of Canada and New Zealand.
However, the U.S. stood pat on its
demand that British-French troops must
be immediately withdrawn, otherwise oil
sanctions and other sanctions will operate
asainst the United Kingdom and France.
"While this strange position exists, with-
out further clarification the position
seems to be that President Eisenhower
has used an opportunity to establish the
ascendancy of the United States in the
West at the expense of Allies who have
bom a greater burden by far, propor-
tionately to their resources and popula-
tions, than the United States. They have,
indeed, ruined themselves in two wars in
the defence of humanity and civilisation,
while out of both wars the United States,
whose soil remained inviolate, has come
richer and more powerful than before;
the only country of first-class standing,
indeed, which has economically benefited
from either war.
It is, however, heartening to know that
such papers as the “New York Times
have backed Mr. Casey’s proposals. It has
described the agreement between Mr.
Hammarskjoeld and Nasser as one which
would “reduce the United Nations police
to a protective guard for the Egyptian end
of the Moscow-Damascus-Cairo Axis’
and declared that the “most hopeful
enterprise the United Nations had ever
undertaken would depend on the dubious
good faith of the Egyptian President”:
Only when such resolutions have been
passed [i.e., aimed towards permanent settle-
ment of the Middle Eastern problems] and
i have been backed-up not only by Egyptian
acceptance but also by a United Nations
police-force strong enough to command
respect for them will it be possible to call
for complete British, French and Israeli
withdrawal from the scene.
President Eisenhower seems to take the
stand that the U.S.A. is the overriding
power in the United which
all are supposed to be equal. He says
there is no quarrel between the United
States and the British and French. He
views this matter from the point of view
of a parent chastising two naughty
children who have refused to obey a
large and opulent uncle who has cornered
the world’s oil through the fortuitous
.action of some bandit nations. When
they become obedient and sorry he is
ready to forgive them.
He proposes, apparently, to use the
situation to enable him to establish
United States control of the Middle East
and Suez and particularly of the Baghdad
Pact. In this combination his Govern-
ment has hitherto refused to join. Had
it done so there would be no such situa-
tion as now exists in the Middle East.
Mr. Menzies’s statement on Novembei
30 put the question of Anglo-American
relationships forcibly.
He said, correctly, that if differences
between the British and Americans were
not speedily bridged, Russia might pursue
its aggressive policies even more actively.
“Statesmanship on both sides of the
Atlantic must concentrate on rebuilding
(Continued on next page)
SPECIAL
in next issue of
The Bulletin
Commencing in the Christmas
Number of The Bulletin
(December 12 issue)
t&USs
Autobiography
will be an exclusive Bulletin
feature as a serial.
N.Z.-born David Low became
famous as a Bulletin cartoonist in
the decade that ended in 1920.
While still a young man he went
to London, and rapidly became
world-famous.
His fascinating life-story — or
success-story — from a piano-case
studio in Christchurch to a suite
in Melhury Court in Londons
West End, from . before Billy
Hughes to after Colonel Blimp,
crowded with literary and political
personalities of world stature, and
intimate glimpses of the London
scene, is exclusive to The Bulletin
in Australia.
Beginning December 12
in a first 15,000-word instalment


the old bridges.” It “needs to be made
clear once more that the defence of the
free world depends essentially not upon
resolutions of the General Assembly, but
upon the closest and most friendly
co-operation between the Great Powers
of Western Europe and the United
States.”
He asks that matters of difference be
swiftly put aside and for a plain statement
on the part of the leaders of the great
nations involved that their cohesion
would remain and that under any or
all circumstances they would work
together and if necessary fight together
to resist and defeat Communism. He
called for “goodwill and quick under-
standing and the earliest possible meeting
on the highest level.” This was wise
advice, as wise as his summary of the
position of the United Nations:
If the present state of affairs is allowed
to continue, the United Nations itself may
become, unhappily for the world, a
discredited institution, and the grand '
alliance which can alone put strength into it
may be weakened so seriously that feckless
action on the part of the Communist
Powers may be positively encouraged.
This puts it very modestly and .hopefully.
The U.N. so far has proved a promoter
of either U.S. or Communist policy and
of disruption and the weakening of the
great Powers which alone could stem the
advance of Communism.
Of the Middle Eastern situation, Mr.
Menzies said that the first thing was to
get the facts right and that they “cojild
be put this way”:
Great Britain and France have been
ordered out of Egypt by the General
Assembly of the United Nations. Their
forces are being replaced by a fragmentary
United Nations force which is pretty clearly
not designed to be a fighting body.
The whole operation appears to be based
on the consent of Colonel Nasser and
subject to whatever conditions he thinks fit
to impose. This means that, Egypt’s
military defeat having been arrested on
the very threshold, Colonel Nasser remains
in possession of the field and appears to be
dictating the terms as if he were the
victor.
Israel, “having been ordered out of the
territory which she so swiftly captured
from the Egyptians,” after being menaced
on all sides with the arms notoriously
provided by Moscow, “finds herself once
more hemmed-in by those who are
hostile to her and whose capacity to
attack her is being steadily built-up.”
It is perfectly true, as he says, that the
General Assembly of U.N. “seemed so
eager to divert its attention from the
massacres of Hungary that it concen-
trated all its fury upon Great Britain and
France” and that Nasser without any
condemnation from this curiously
oriented body has sabotaged the canal
and put it out of action for many months
—in ufter defiance of agreements or any
interest save that of himself and Moscow.
Finally (Mr. Menzies says) we are
witnessing a state of affairs in which “the
current oil supplies of Great Britain and
Europe have been terribly reduced, petrol-
rationing has been reintroduced, and a
great deal of unemployment seems inevit-
able ; in which Russian morale has been
elevated ; the already difficult economic
situation of Britain aggravated, the
prestige of Great Britain and France in
the Middle East swept aside, and the base
of European defence, which includes the
maintenance of the defensive positions in
the Middle East, gravely impaired.”
Well might he confess himself baffled
by the activities of the General
Assembly of the United Nations: —
The terms of the Charter make it quite
clear that what might be called the executive
body—the Security Council —was set-up
in the hope that the peace of the world
would be defended by co-operative action
primarily of the great Powers. The new
role of the General Assembly appears to
reverse this principle, because not only
are many small nations offering to give
instruction, but the great Powers themselves
have been specifically excluded from any
effective part in the operations.
His reminder of the disastrous effects of
the division of the great Powers of the
West on Turkey and the Baghdad Pact
was as pertinent as his reminder that
“the very essence” of the proposals which
he and'his colleagues from the London
conference were sent to Cairo to present
was “that the character of the Suez Canal
as a free international waterway must
be preserved by taking the canal out of
the political control of any one nation.”
Every move U.N. makes demolishes
some more of the principles both of the
United Nations Charter and of the
London Agreement.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Country-party Federal Conference
in Canberra backed the British Govern-
ment to the full over Suez. It was the one
party which firmly opposed the original
British withdrawal. Earle Page’s voice was
almost the only one raised in doleful
prophecy in Australia when the first move
to get out was made.
• •
Wentworth Federal poll takes place on
Saturday in a confused atmosphere in
which “Labor” has had cause for rejoic-
ing as the fight goes on between Liberal
candidates rather than between Liberals
and “Labor.” At any rate, defeated
Liberal independents will have one con-
solation which a “Labor” independent
wouldn’t enjoy in similar circumstances.
There will be no tight-lipped A.L.P.
junta waiting to expel them for bucking
the party orders.
• •
It is nearing the end of Australia’s best,
longest and happiest sporting binge, but
there are no complaints about the Olympic
circles under everybody’s eyes.
• •
Because of a voting-system which it
almost needs Dr. Messel’s Silliac com-
puter to crack, the results of Sydney’s
municipal elections won’t be definitely
known for some days ; but it seemed on
Monday that there could have been a set-
back which would leave Labor able to
govern the City Council only with help
from the Democrats, Communists and
Independents,
One forecast prophesied four or five
seats for Civic Reform, two or three for
the Liberals, two fop- Democratic Labor,
one each for Communist party and an
Independent, and eight A.L.P. The new
Lord Mayor, the six-foot H. F. Jensen,
who won his chair on a reduced majority,
thinks “it is impossible for us to lose
control of the council.” If the A.L.P.
wins amid all the soupy odors that hang
round it, it certainly will have proved how
impossible it is to defeat anything with
a “Labor” tag to it round Sydney.
• •
Though in reduced strength, “Labor”
rule will probably continue in Sydney
municipal affairs. And while it continues
Sydney is more likely to have fruit-
barrows, smelly markets, other smells,
etc., than it is likely to have the
honor of holding an Olympiad. Mel-
bourne is running away from Sydney in
civic affairs. It isn’t controlled by the
dead, doctrinaire hand of the A.L.P.
Not only at the municipal level is
Melbourne ahead of Sydney. Victoria has
been getting more overseas capital than
has N.S.W. Vic. Premier Bolte made a
special trip to the U.S.A. to attract
dollars to his State. The doctrinaire
“Labor” Premier of N.S.W., Cahill,
wouldn’t be game to leave his party affairs
long enough to take a trip abroad
—the “bhoys” might do him over in
absentia.
Victoria is governed by a Government;
N.S.W. is run by a racket. That is the
essential difference between the two
States.
• •
Chairmen of two big Australian trading-
banks have spoken within the past week ;
both sharply criticise the extent to which
Government controls have shackled the
Australian economy. Morshead, of the
’Wales, remarked that it was “regrettable
that a Government expressing belief in
free enterprise should be so reluctant to
act in strengthening the ability of the
system to survive the challenge of
Socialism.” And Giddy, of the
National, aptly points to the U.S.A. and
Canada as two economies, comparatively
lightly hampered by Government inter-
vention, which a young and expanding
country like Australia should study and,
where appropriate, copy.
• •
When the United States, largely on its
own initiative, became embroiled in the
Korean affair it gave almost a sigh of
relief when Australia backed-up its stand
and promptly offered airmen and troops.
However small that contribution may have
been, it was a signal gesture. In the case
of Suez and U.S.A., Australia’s sighs have
been of another kind.
The U.S. Army has dispensed with its
last mules. Still, there’s no reason why
they should be turned out to grass or sent
to the knackers —after all, there should
be room for a few more in the State
Department.
9 9
Moscow has “strongly denied” sug-
gestions that she is building-up her armed
forces in the Eastern European satellite
countries. That was all that was needed
to confirm the West’s suspicions.
9 ®
Nothing clears the industrial air like a
few facts, especially when they’re
economic. On the morning of the gas-
workers’ stopwork-meetings in Melbourne,
Bolte published the wages of fitters, their
assistants, laborers, mobile-crane drivers
and stokers, disclosing the Government
was paying them all £2 a week or more
above award rates, with 3s. a shift (instead
of the award 25.) to alternating shift-
workers, The gasworkers decided to go
quietly, asking the Trades Hall Council
to make a new approach to Bolte to get
the c.-0.-l. rises. (It would be interesting
THE LOPSIDED CHAMP.
to know, though, why the Government
pays £2 above the awards.)
• •
The publishers of Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” copped a £13,300 fine in
Sydney Central Summons court for
having advertised a “foreign” lottery —
that is, a Tasmanian one. There were 68
charges against the “Tele,” and, presum-
ably, 68 ads. In 65 proven casSs there
was a fine of £2OO each. On December
19 last year the paper was fined in respect
of one charge, and it appealed to the
High Court, which in October dismissed
the appeal. Counsel for the newspaper
said leave to appeal to the Privy Council
was being sought. Feeling between State
Governments running “lot’ries” has been
tense as competition has sharpened.
• •
“Croweater”: Tom Playford’s 18
years ift office as S.A. Premier is an Aus-
tralian, but not a British Commonwealth,
record. Lord Malvern (formerly Sir
Godfrey Huggins), who resigned last
month as Priminister of the Central
African Federation (Rhodesias. and
Nyasaland), had 23 years of unbroken
reign, having become Premier of Southern
Rhodesia in 1933 and Chief Minister of
the Federation three years ago.
• •
“In the ACT”: Oversea sales of Aus-
tralian wheat this marketing year reached
the gratifying total of 125-million Ijushels,
so that despite the large crop of 196-mil-
lion bushels there’ll be no addition to the
carryover. A reduction in North Ameri-
can production and stocks is forecast,
although U.S. disposals to lodia and
elsewhere still menace Australian markets.
Outlook for the next harvest isn’t good.
The acreage under crop, with the possible
exception of the drought years 1943-45,
is one of the lowest for several decades,
and total crop prospects are poor. Most
likely estimate is 125-million bushels. If
exports keep up stocks in Australia by the
end of the 1956-57 wheat-year may have
fallen to 45-million bushels.
• •
After annual meetings in Manila, Bang-
kok and Karachi, the Seato Council is to
hold a meeting in Canberra, probably
next March. Parliament House will be
used for the gathering, and the Foreign
Ministers of the eight member-nations,
as well as senior members of their
diplomatic services and their military
advisers, will attend.
• 9
“Labor” has been soft-pedalling on its
socialisation objective since 1949 and
making much of the “watered-down”
interpretation. At least one M.t.C. in
N. S. Wales has no such inhibitions. C.
Colbourne, replying to an inquiry
whether he believed in the private owner-
ship of property, said on October 24:
If the honorable member were a
member of the Labor party he would
believe as I do. That is the fundamental
difference between the Labor party, which
does not believe in the private Ownership
of property, and those opposed to the
Labor party, who believe not only in the
private ownership of property but also in
its exploitation for their own gain.
Colbourne is not, of course, authorised
to speak for the opponents of his party.
But is, he authorised to speak for the
A.L.P.? The party executive hasn’t
disowned his statement.
e •
Next Antarctic whaling season, begin-
ning in January, the whaling-fleets will
be given only four days in February in
which humpback whales may be taken
freely. The International Whaling Com-
mission has refused to extend this limited
season, a decision of considerable import-
ance to the Australian industry, which
relies on the humpbacks travelling north-
ward from the Antarctic.
• ®
Resignations from Communists have
been so heavy that membership of the
party in Great Britain is expected to fall
as low as 20,000. Several trade-union
leaders, known for years as convinced
Communists, have expressed their disgust
with Moscow. And a quarter of the
editorial staff of the “Daily Worker,”
including some of long service, have
resigned over Hungary.
The rot is a serious one which has
been setting-in ever since Khrushchev’s
exposure of Stalin. The drift-away
amounts to a clear-out, so far as the
intellectuals and emotionals are con-
cerned. These people, fancying Com-
munism as a kind of crusade for the
special betterment of underdeveloped
races and for the enlightenment of the
satellite countries, have seen their hopes
savaged, first by bureaucratic cynicism
and finally by the Hungarian massacre.
Reservations notwithstanding, Com-
munist power on the industrial front is
weaker. Members of tfie E.T.U., already
inclined to flaunt their arrogant leaders,
will be more assertive. Union-leaders
who are known to be Communists are
being displaced. Finally, the hardening
of opinion against Russia, combined with
the confused state of the party-organisa-
tion in Britain, hardly makes for
efficient prosecution of the party-line.


Society
"AND IT'S RPINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
lIUHEN the on 10-o’clock
™ closing failed Melbournites
shivered at the humiliation they would
endure when the sophisticates of the
world flocked in for the Olympic Games.
Nobody seemed to remember that when
the Games were held in Los Angeles
in 1932, the U.S.. was in the grip of
Prohibition. There was no undue
criticism of America; a few humorous
articles, and that’s all. —“Orrong.”
“Ess”: Melbourne is a city ‘of blazers.
My first impression was that there must
be hundreds of Olympic teams here.
Then I began to look closer: the stout
little important-looking chap, whom I had
imagined a big Russian official, turned
out to be wearing the sporting-ensemble
of the North. Balwyn Quoits Club. And
the long-striding girl with the thick blonde
hair, at first sight a super javelin-thrower
from the polar regions, bore the insignia
of a famous girls’ school. Every weekend-
sportsman from Hobart to Cape York
seems to have come to Melbourne in his
club-colors ; the color-schemes 6f the few
Olympic athletes you spot seem quite
“Of COURSE we d love to come —provided we don't have to dress-up .”
subdued against the blazing background.
Might as well dig out the 20-year-old
blazer I wore when I was runner-up in
the Combined Junior Technical Schools
sack-race.
* *%* *l*
“Rimutuka”: A Melbourne letter tells
of the writer’s conversation with a lad in
the Games queue. About twelve, he held
a wad of paper-money: “Forty-quid here,
and Mum and Dad and
me sister are in the
line, too. Dad makes a
lotta dough selling the
tickets.”
“Robbie’’: The
Olympic - torch affair
reminds me of when a
celebrated educationist
visited our* town. A
dinner was arranged,
but a young teacher
convinced the officials
that the visitor ate
only toast, washed
down with sodawater.
“A bit eccentric,” he
explained. It turned
out that the guest, duly
regaled with toast and
bubbly-water, was a
hearty eater and a lover
of Scotch. The bright
boy finished-up in the
Far West.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Billabong”: Tele-
vision is bringing poetry
to Melbourne; I
noticed a full-page
advertisement along the
lines: “You get a
better view on Channel
2.” I’m waiting for the other two stations
to come out with, “You’re in Heaven on
Channel 7,” and ‘Things look fine on
Channel 9 but we’ll have to wait for
smellivision for: “Widgies thrive on
Chanel 5.”
. ❖ *> *>
“Fenix”: I’ve just laid out £2 for .12
months’ membership of a co-operative
purchasing organisation in Sydney. A
very exclusive organisation it is, accord-
ing to the advertisement, “not open to the
public. Only ex-servicemen; union-
members ; State, Federal, municipal or
local-government employees or self-
employed persons and their families are
admitted.”
“J. 8.”: Somebody in our suburb
remains loyal: the Rising Fast Coffee and
Snack Bar in the main street was resplen-
dent with newly-painted sign when I saw
it a week after the Cup.
-£♦
“Muskeen”: According to the “Taxa-
tion Record” (U.S.A,) of July, 1956, an
American barmaid in the habit of
balancing two to four glasses of beer on
her bosom while serving customers was
adjudged by the United States Revenue
Department an entertainer ; and there-
fore the bar in which she worked was
subject to a cabaret-tax of 20 per cent.
Back-tax collected amounted to £19,864,
though the question whether this should
not have been assessed as a front-tax may
yet constitute grounds for appeal.
■»£«■ -ije *
“Tabba”: Of all the notices one meets
in public places I had thought the most
impossible of analysis was above the door
of a naval canteen: “Don’t push. Ji.et
those who are going out iirst! ” Now I
I have come into a hotel room to find
“Excuse me, but did you happen to see a golf-ball come this Way ?”
by the light-switch: “Please! Put light
out when not in use.”
* * *
“Wyuna”: I didn’t think the time had
arrived for appeasement in comic-opera.
When German’s “Merrie England” was
produced around 1921 the song “The Yeo-
men of England,” sung' by Howett-
Worster, referred to: —-
Spaniards and Dutchmen and Frenchmen
and such men
and to:— •
Austro-Hungarians and Russian
Barbarians.
The other day, on the air, the singer
contented himself with reference to:
Nations to eastward and nations to
westward.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Curate’s Egg”: In the matter of mili-
tary titles in civilian life, “Kui” (B.
7y 11/’56) reminds me of a meeting of
directors of a large concern in Queens-
land where a middle-ranking executive
objected to the omission of “Major” from
his name in the minutes of the previous
meeting. At the next meeting the omis-
sion had been rectified ; a second cor-
rection recorded the chairman of directors
as Lance-corporal Brown. At the third
meeting the minutes showed such a pre-
ponderance of ex-N.C.O. titles that the
chairman suggested: “It seems as though
we’re holding sergeants\mess rather than
directors’ meetings, and I suggest that
henceforth we revert to our civil titles.”
So passed the brief interlude of martial
glory in the record of Bloggs and Co.
* ❖ ❖
“Zorok”: Chap was telling me that at
one drive-in theatre doubts arose as to
the honesty of its ticket-man, and the
management decided to check the tickets
he’d been issuing. But the two checkers
soon gave it away, embarrassed;
apparently the billing and cooing going
on wasn’t on the screen alone. So not
only do drive-in cinemas “provide a long-
needed service for cars,” as “S.E.T.”
points out (B. 28/11/’56), but also, it
seems, for those occupying them.
* *l*
“Dplphin”: Uncanny radar-accuracy
and deadly gunfire had made the Aus-
tralian cruiser Shropshire as good as a
secret-weapon to the U.S.N. 7th Battle
Fleet when she slid alongside a Yankee
tanker in Leyte Gulf. An Australian tar
leant over the rail holding a Shropshire
pennant—ss. each in the canteen. A Gob
called to him: “Say, buddy, how much
do the pennants cost?” “A dollar,”
chanted the tar. The Yank took it liter-
ally. “Well, goddam! Me and all my
buddies will buy them for a dahlar each! ”
Realisation that the Yankee dollar was
worth over seven-bob started a thun-
derous stampede to the Shroppie canteen,
which sold out of pennants in three
minutes flat.
“R.E.”: First-war Digger firrested
riding a bike under the influence in a
Victorian country town complained bit-
terly to the magistrate about his lodgings
of the night before. They must have been
pretty crook if, as he asserted, they were
the worst he’d ever struck. The magis-
trate convicted and discharged the old
warrior on the ground that anyone who
rode a bike, shickered, on a busy inter-
state highway was taking his life as much
in his hands as if he’d been on the Western
From.
* ❖ ❖
“Anglican”: “Rev. Bagley,” of
Footscray, Vic. (B. 14/11/’56), who
befriended the future Archbishop Booth,
of Melbourne, was actually the Rev. John
T. Baglin. A very big athletic chap, he
once travelled between two railway-
stations riding on the buffers, having
mistaken the space between carriages for
an open doorway (the lighting wasn’t so
good 50 years ago). He emerged, shaken
but otherwise unhurt, at the first stop, to
finish the ride inside the carriage.
❖ *> ❖
& “Wandana”: Next wild plane to be
caged is the one in which Captain Harry
Butler flew the first airmail service in
Australia. It is coming back to his home
town, sMinlaton (S.A.); a gift to the
district as a memorial to him. Known
as the Red Devil, the plane, a Bristol, was
brought from England to Australia by
Butler in 1919. Macßobertson Miller
Airlines, of Perth, owned it in more
recent years, and it was in W.A. that the
chairman of directors of Robbies Air-
craft Co. located it. Intention is to house
it in a £3OOO building on the tree-planta-
tion which runs down Minlaton’s main
street.
♦♦♦ *t*
“Hattie Hop”: I told the salesman who
presided at the delica/essen-counter that
there had been a bad egg in my last half-
dozen. “I’ll give you another for it,
he replied readily ; but I said, “I couldn t
expect you to do that. You only have my
word for it.” “Well, I’d rather take your
word for it than have you bring me back
the bad egg,” he returned. “Some of our
customers would.’’
PASS ON YOUR "BULLETIN"-
if you wish, but there is a way of keeping
faith with your friend or relative and at
the same time retaining your Bulletin
for reading at your leisure those special
articles and stories you sometimes nib'
through lack of time when the issue is
current. This year give him a Bulletin
Gift-subscription. Take you five-minutes.
Just fill-in the subscription-form m this
issue and post it. Towards Christmas we
will send him a Christmas-card aonouno
ing your gift and signed 'with your name.
No money handy? Then we’ll send yo
an account in the New Year.
OLYMPIC LESSON
A Yankee parson vaults to Heaven
On the afternoon front-pages;
There’s not a breath of scandal, even,
While the Olympic battle rages;
Miss Cuthbert smiles and shows the medal
To which the love of fame has spurred
her . . .
But how much crime does this soft-
pedal ?
It’s crowded-out my daily murder!
One' must admire the boys and gals
With discus and with javelin,
But what about professionals ?
Should they not have a chance to win ?
The hold-up man who bashes you,
In thirty-seven seconds, flat —
He has his little records, too,
But no one ever thinks of that.
I hope that when we have returned
To saner and more normal times
Our front-page writers will have learned
The sporting way of treating crimes :
“The cops are moving to rescind
Bill Sykes’s record-breaking run
Because he had a helping wind;
Besides, they say, he beat the gun.”
Some judge may then be heard to state :
‘‘John Smith —disqualified for life ;
I find your hammer underweight
For throwing at a twelve-stone wife!”
W-hat front-page crimes we might Have
had
By keeping strictly to the letter!
We need some rules for being bad
To make our clumsy criminals better .
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


A/rY niece’s small daughter was
presented with an expensive gift by a
male acquaintance of her mother’s. “He
must be wealthy if he can afford to give
away presents like that one?” 1
hazarded. “Wealthy!” echoed my niece.
“I’ll say he is! Why, he works on the
rocket-range! ” —“Maitri.”
“Nosmo King”: Parked in a half-hour-
limit area the car had a roughjy-scribbled
notice on a large sheet of paper on the
windscreen: “No Petrol —No Stickers.”
Passers-by added their comments: “No
Brains,” “No Money,” “No-hoper.” The
traffic-inspector had the final word as he
placed his dreaded sticker in position:
“No kidding.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pioneer Paddy”: During a recent
important court case in Hobart a radio-
“He may be a good rocker , but he's a lousy roller.”
announcer reading the news attributed a
very serious remark to the Clown
Prosecutor. Next day we heard that there
was trouble in the West Windies.
❖ ❖
“Irving”: Mislaying of a file (B.
14/11/’56) caused several weeks’ nervous
tension for a section-head, dreading being,
asked to produce it for the Minister, until
a junior clerk was detached from all other
tasks, at his own suggestion, to search
for the all-important bundle.
The lad inquired if there would
be any reward —his heart’s
desire, he said, was a bath in
the Minister’s private bathroom.
The boss agreed; the junior
returned half-an-hour later with
the missing file, which, of course,
he had found by accident before
he approached the section-head.
The boss stuck to his word, and
for another nerve-wracking half-
an-hour kept nit in the corridor
while the junior wallowed in
the Minister’s luxurious tub.
“Bo”: The getting-in of outstanding
debts by businessmen in a comparatively
small way, after the debtors have remained
deaf to reminders, entreaties and threats
of legal action, often means throwing
good money after bad, and a lot of them
are written-off as bad-debts. But a florist
who does a good bit of wreath-work,
having exhausted the usual number of
monthly reminders, sends a final one with
which goes a covering-note to the. effect
that if it is not met within seven days the
bill will be sent to the next-of-kin —a
name easily obtained from either the
undertakers or the funeral announce-
ments. It never fails. Who, having sent
a wreath, would want the family to know
that the sender was trying to wriggle out
of paying for it?
“R.E.”: A construction-firm had been
paying 15s. weekly travelling-time since -
commencement of job. Friday, payday,
workers were curtly informed: “Travel-
ling-time will be discontinued forthwith.”
Twelve-months ago it would have meant
the boss frantically searching for a new
crew. But on the following Monday there
was not a single absentee.
*+*
“P.0.M.C.”: Australian divorce laws
may need reforming or co-ordinating, but
the patience demanded of persons wait-
ing to be heard in N.S.W. becomes
curiously strained. A couple I know grew
so bored with waiting to be parted that
they have come together again.
♦j- <£♦
“Kenyas”: There was a time when
church-spires and -steeples dominated the
skyline of any respectable city ; later, sky-
scrapers and the like almost completely
obscured the religious architecture —
pessimists might claim the change
symbolised something. Nowadays,
travelling over Sydney bridge I notice
that all the tall buildings are eclipsed by
cranes and derricks; they certainly hold
pride of place. It’s heartening to know
that some day it may be possible to rent
an office, even if it’s still impossible to
buy or rent a modest dwelling.
<* ❖
“Derwent”: Buying a leather handbag,
my wife discovered that the customary
slab of mirror for powder-operations,
etc., was missing, and was told the item
is now sold separately because of sales-
tax on leather-goods. Women’s and
children’s leather cases carry a sales-tax
“I do love your new hat, dear!”
of 25 per cent, if a mirror is in the case,
"but the figure is dropped to 12} p.c. with-:
out it. Thus vanity is assessed by the
Treasury as 50 per cent. —“Vanity of
vanities; fifty per cent, is vanity! ”
* ♦> ❖
“Tiberius”: For “Zend-Avesta’s”
benefit (B. 7/11/ ’56), the locals on Capri
also pronounce Michele as Mikaily (or
Mikailay) unless they are talking to
foreigners, whose ideas on the pronuncia-
tion of Italian names they are always pre-
pared to accept for the purpose of the
moment. The name Capri itself provides
an example. The pre-war song-hit having
taught the world that the accent is on the
second syllable, many guides prefer to
place it there when speaking to their
charges, especially if these are Americans.
❖ ❖
“Danawan”: The U.S. jet-fighter flying
at supersonic speed that shot itself down
while the pilot was trying out new
20-m.m. cannon, by running into shells
it had discharged a few seconds before,
has given new life to an old idiom: pilots
will have to look out for themselves from
now on.
♦j- ♦>
“Rimutuka”: No doubt many a little
woman is seething with indignation over
the Queensland State Industrial Court’s
decision that men cooks “produce work
superior in class, quality, and quantity”
to women’s, and are therefore worth more
money. But what do they mean by more
money?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Was surprised to hear the
office-juniors whistling Chabrier’s
“Rhapsodie Espagnol.” “Since when
have you taken on classics?” I asked one
of them. “Why, that’s the latest hit,” he
explained; “it’s called ‘Hot Diggity.’ ”
Chabrier * broke almost every piano he
played ; maybe he would get a sudden
vision of what they’d do to his music.
+J* .
“Selby”: New tax on cheques created
headaches and fruitless cruising around
post-offices, to be met with: “Sorry, no
penny duty-stamps available. May have
some tomorrow.” Government decided to
turn a blind eye to unintentional, or
otherwise, offenders. When questioned
on what line private banks woujkl take,
one official huffily remarked: “Our custo-
mers are men of' integrity.” Some of
their customers will be surprised to hear
this.
♦> ++<•
“Quo Vadis”: To the potential
customer the poultryman explained he
didn’t trade on Sundays. His visitor was
insistent, and indignant. He often worked
on the Sabbath —on the wharves. “O.K.
The chooks are yours —at treble rates,”
said the vendor. The wharfie saved face
—and bought. But he didn’t come again.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Long Bay Boy”: I always thought
Dick Tracy was a fair cop until the
episode. in which he used a class-
photograph to trace brother Rughead.
Is nothing sacred? Could they do it
in Australia? If so, there is a clear case
for a yearly visit by vocational-guidance
officers who must put to each child the
question: “Do you intend to make crime
your profession? You are warned that
if your class-photograph is taken it may
be used in evidence against you.”
♦> >>
AS a child, playing at home, I dashed
out of the house and called to my
sister, “Come quickly, and see the funny
old duck they’ve put in the diningroom.”
She came at once, her mouth watering
at the thought of a bird succulently
roasted, and ready to eat.
But her pleasure was not to be
gastronomic ; she gazed at an oil-painting
of an elderly lady with hair parted in the
centre and curls set symmetrically around
the ears and neck, and two over each
temple. A lace collar atop her black
dress, accentuating the drooping
shoulders of that era, at the neck a lovely
old brooch, and all surmounted by a gold
chain draped across her bosom.
The painting did not show the good
bone-structure so beloved of artists, and
the slightly-puffy face gazed at us
enigmatically. My mother reproved us:
“Funny old duck indeed! She’s your
great-grandmother —on your father’s side,
of course!”
Some years later, when Great-grand-
mother had been hanging over the mantel
for so long we had become used to her,
I realised that when I awakened in the
morning my face, heavy with sleep, was
very like hers. I mentioned this to my
sister, and one wet Sunday afternoon we .
spent hours doing me over in her period,
collar, brooch, curls and all; and lo-and-
behold, I was the spittin’ image!
I bemoaned this to my father. He
muttered about chickens coming home to
roost; but added kindly, “Never you
mind, Lorn; she had a very good
business-head on those sloping shoulders.”
That was pretty cold comfort.
As time went on I realised that I was
getting more and more like her. Then
the earthquake which gave Adelaide such
a helluva shake swayed and rattled our
house on the edge of the fault. The only
thing dislodged was Great-grandmother.
She slid down the breast of the chimney
and came to rest on the mantel a
cracked frame and a ghost of a smile I’m
sure she didn’t have before. So, in to
town to be repaired. Cleaned-up,
replaced on the chimney - breast,
resplendent in a new frame, she had a lot
more detail, and a light behind one
shoulder hitherto unnoticed.
Lately, a little lass of six noticed I had
pierced ears, and, when I was calling on
her mother she amused herself putting the
hooks in and out of my ear-lobes. As I
was leaving she said, “Could I come and
sleep in your house one night?” I agreed,
thinking it a subtle form of flattery. She
came later, and as I tucked her into bed
she said, “Have you still got holes in
your ears?” That had been the attraction.
Next morning she added insult to injury
with a true and childlike broadside; as
I took her into the diningroom for
breakfast, she clapped her eyes on Great-
grandmother: “Was that you, when you
were a little girl?”
Taking umbrage, I replied, “No. That’s
an elderly lady.”
She gave me an unbelieving sidelong
glance . . .
Old duck, indeed!
Lorna Doone.
OBSTINATE OBMUTESCENCE
“Several types of shellfish, including bivalves
and crayfish, are able to change their sex.”—
Nature note.
1 asked a clam if this were true;
It seems he didn’t have a clue —
He just kept dumb.
And yet it may be he was mad
Or sad to think he could be Dad
Or might be Mum.
And then an oyster I approached;
The subject once again I broached.
To my delight
It opened wide as if to yap;
Then with embarrassment its gap
It closed-up, tight.
A fresh-caught, armorplated cray,
Friend of the drunk, was next. Its way
Forthwith I barred
And put my quiz •* Which was the aim
Of bivalves —to be cove or dame ?
I listened hard.
Something it seemed to say, the clot!
Poor satisfaction, though, I got
From that short yarn-oh;
For, though it seemed a masculine bloke,
With long, strong whiskers, yet it spoke
In a soprano.
My store of knowledge to enrich,
Moliuscs I’ve asked: Why do they switch
To female sex ?
Do thus they exercise their guile
By being boss-cocky for a while
On rocks and wrecks?
Conspiracy of silence I
Am met with ; though I know not why . ..
Well, bloke or dame
Or both together—this I know:
Though oyster may be buck and doe,
It tastes the same !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Harry Giddy, whose speeches at the
annual meetings of the National Bank
are always worth hearing for the breadth
of their national outlook, isn’t a banker
at all; he is a member of the successful firm of
accountants Wilson, Danby and Giddy. He
isn’t a recluse, either, as are so many men
who deal in big money; he is a very popular
Melbourne clubman.
His speech last week, in which he suggested
that as the nation grew richer we could afford
to rely more on free enterprise and competition,
was his 13th and best as the National’s chair-
man, but he has been an optimist about his
■country even when conditions weren’t so rosy.
A long listing of Melbourne companies rely
on his financial sagacity in their boards, includ-
ing the Herald and Weekly Times, of which
he took over the chairmanship when his old
mate, Keith Murdoch, died; but he also spends
a lot of time for personal satisfaction for the
Royal Melbourne Hospital, the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute and similar causes, and
during the war chaired Red Cross’s
rehabilitation committee.
More, he’s highly skilled with his hands:
turns out, at a well-equipped workshop at his
Toorak home, craftsman’s articles in wood,
particularly fishing-gear; with business friends
he made weaving-looms for Red Cross during
the war; nowadays he takes his fishing-gear
once a year to Moreton Bay. His hobby is a
natural outlet; he wanted to be an engineer,
but he had to sing in St. Paul’s Cathedral Choir
School for his education and get to work smartly
as a clerk to earn money.
LESLIE BURY, endorsed Liberal
candidate for Wentworth (Eric Harrison’s
former seat), and a young man (43) of
unusual ability and experience. He could
be an asset to the Government as a
financial adviser and administrator. (A
very likeable fellow, too.)
First to occupy the Chair of Agricul-
ture at Sydney University—there couldna
ha’ been a more canny choice —Emeritus
Professor R. D. Watt has been appointed
executive officer by the Men of the Land
society, wjiose objectives naturally have
appealed to hiiq as very much in line with
his own teaching ever since he came here
from his native Ayrshire (Scotland).
Born and brought up on his father’s
farm, and in the normal course of things
destined to till the Caledonian wilds, he
went instead to Glasgow University and
the West of Scotland Agricultural College.
At the one, M.A. and B.Sc.Agr,; at the
other, the National Diploma in Agricul-
ture with honors, and the gold-medal for
first in the exam, (open to candidates from
all universities and agricultural colleges
in the U.K.) and the National Diploma in
Dairying. Then, on a Carnegie research-
scholarship, to Rothamsted; thence to
South Africa ; and so to Sydney (1910).
A Farrer Memorial medallist.
• •
“S.”: I had the pleasure of dining in
Sydney with Kylie Tennant and Mr. Hsu
Kuang-Hsiao, poet, playwright and cul-
tural-relations personage of the Classical
Theatre of China: a quiet, likeable
gentleman, Mr. Hsu —whom we called
vaguely “Mr. Shoe” —with a ready laugh
to offset his seriousness and the strain
he must have been under, talking through
his quick-witted interpreter. I think
Mr. Hsu told me —even with the inter-
preter my Chinese wasn’t quite adequate
—that China now has Shelley, Byron
and Walt Whitman in Chinese; that
Henry Lawson is, or shortly is to be, on
the list; and that “Romeo and Juliet,” in
Chinese, was playing in a Peking theatre
when the company set out on its travels.
I suppose Henry’s acceptability to the
Left is part of the reason why he gets
around ; but he’s a most creditable repre-
sentative for this country and I can
imagine his direct little tales and simple
landscapes transferring very well into
Chinese —what on earth can they make
of Shelley? Mr. Hsu also told me that
his own poems sell either ten thousand
or tens of thousands of copies at each
printing . . . but at that point I gave up.
• •
Apart from the distinguished military
career the war records record, Lt.-Col.
C. Hellier Evans, D.S.O. (who has passed
on in Melbourne), shared an unusual
sporting record back in his native N.Z.
Nearly 60 years ago he and his brothers
Frank, Oliver and Harley, all playing for
the Te Arai Polo Club at Gisborne, won
the Junior Cup in the Savile Cup tourney
at Hastings—only time in the long history
of polo in New Zealand that a team of
four brothers has won a national
event. The lad who was to be Lt'.-Col.
Evans with the Enzedders in France in
War I was captain of the team ; they
belonged to a noted Poverty Bay family.
• •
Notched 90 in Perth, Alfred Sandover,*
noted businessman and chairman of
directors of a firm with big department-
stores in both Perth and Fremantle.
Bom in Plymouth in 1866, he came to
South Australia, and then in 1884 moved
to Perth, where he went into business with
a brother, founding the firm which
eventually became Harris, Scarfe and
Sandover. A keen organiser, for 50 years
on the executive council of the Perth
Chamber of Manufactures, he’s a past-
president of the Perth Chamber of Com-
merce and has been a member of the
council of the W.A. Employers’ Federa-
tion and of the W.A. Uni.’s senate.
• •
After taking-out a bronze-medal in
the double-sculls at this year’s Games
(partnered by fellow-policeman Murray
Riley), Merv Wood has decided to ship
his Olympic oars. This was, of course,
his fourth Olympics. At 19 he was the
baby of the eight-oar crew at the 1936
Games (they came nowhere); in 1948 he
won and in 1952 came second in the
single-sculls. So he’s won each of the
three medals. As well, he’s won a few
other championships and titles ; a couple
such wins were the single-sculls at the
1950 Empire Games and, with Riley, the
double-sculls at the ’5O and ’54 Empire
Games. Fittingly, as a sportsman in the
real Olympian tradition, he was given the
honor of being Australia’s standard-
bearer at both the 1952 and the present
Games.
Present Australian single-sculls champ.,
20-year-old Stuart Mackenzie could be
another Merv Wood. Standing 6ft. 4in.
and scaling over 14st., he was going great
guns to lead most of the way in the
Olympic event; miscounting the marker-
buoys, he slowed-up too early, and was
headed by the Russian youngster Ivanov.
(Not that he offered excuses.) Educated
at The King’s School, Sydney, he repped
for his school in football, cricket, rifle-
shooting and athletics —he won the
G.P.S. discus-throw —as well as, of
course, rowing in the eights in the Head
of the River. At 18 he was chosen in
N.S.W.’s 1954 King’s Cup eight-oar crew.
• •
“Brolga”: It’s my bet that Victoria’s
Commissioner of Police (B. 7/11/’56)
is known as “Mr.” Porter by his own
request. It is in keeping with the character
of that grand soldier that he should wish
to show he’s quite capable of maintain-
ing authority in a civil position without
the backing of his military rank. I’d
reckon that any police-officer who has
been personally hauled over the coals by
the Commissioner will agree that there
was no need for the use of any military
rank to make the interview a memorable
occasion. And he knows merit when he
sees it. When he commanded the 2/31
Battalion during the sharp tussle in Syria,
where he earned his D. 5.0., “Uncle Bill”
often claimed to have the best regimental
chaplain and best M.O. in the 2nd A.I.F.
They were, respectively, Donald Redding,
now Bishop of Bun bury (W.A.), and Hal
Selle, now Medical Superintendent of
R.P.A. Hospital, Sydney.
« 0
This page cannot go to press without
a brief note on the passing of The Star.
No names, no pack-drill—just The Star.
How many Bulletin blokes, and wool
blokes, and shipping blokes, and other
blokes of Sydney, in their day, in their
turn, in their bemused way loved her.
The Star! And gone now. They were
due to pull the last schooner, to pour the
last nip there last week.
One of the two Gledden travelling-
fellowships awarded by the Westralian
University has been annexed by Perth
engineer William David Benson, who got
the glad tidings on his 35th birthday.
Joining the A.I.F. in 1940, after taking
his B.Sc. in engineering subjects earlier
that year, he resumed his studies after
demobilisation, taking B.E. and B.A.
degrees as a rehabilitation student. Since,
he has held a job as engineer with the
Metropolitan Water Supply Department
in Perth. His fellowship, valued at £lBOO
a year, is for two years: he’ll spend the
first doing a post-graduate course in
public-health engineering (at the Imperial
College of Science and Technology,
London) and the second having a look-
see in Western Europe and the U.S.A.
Two younger brothers are medicos; one
is doing post-graduate work in the U.K.,
the other practising in Perth. Their father
was for more than 20 years R.S.L. State
secretary.
• •
' In line with Enzed churches giving
women a bigger look-in than hitherto,
the Congregational Union of New Zea-
land has for the first time inducted a
woman chairman —only the fourth
occasion that that’s happened in the
world. She is Miss Hilda E. A. Small,
former member of the London Mission-
ary Society, with which she started in
Western Samoa in 1917. As another step
in the same direction, the conference of
the Methodist Church of New Zealand
also made history by electing its first
woman to the vice-presidency, highest
office open to a layman. She is Sister
Rita Snowden, a deaconess for years and
author of several books of a meditative
character. Coincidentally, both grew up
in the Nelson district and both now belong
to Auckland.
• •
Calling it a day after half-a-century
service at Victoria University College,
Wellington (N.Z.), senior technician H.
E. Strawbridge, who in both wars did
valuable work in devising mine-detectors
and anti-submarine counters used in
ports throughout the Dominion. Hailing
originally from Parkville, Melbourne, he
can count up many distinguished men
who passed through his workshop, one of
the tops among them Prof. C. N. West-
Watson, chief scientist of Australia’s
Atomic Commission.
• •
Head bookman in the Adelaide Library
—and one you’d pick for just that sort of
post on head-contours alone —Hedley
Brideson is the fourth holder of the job
since 1900. Like two of his predecessors,
he joined the Library as a cadet and stuck
at night and midnight studies till Adelaide
Uni. rated him B.A. In 1941 he made a
first-rate fist of organising the Library’s
world-wide research-service, and is him-
self as avid a reader as he looks —by no
means a general addiction of those who
live among books. His choice mostly runs
to history and biography; and there’s
time, too, for lecturing at the School of
Mines on such themes as debating, chair-
manship and —preaching what he thus
practises—public speaking. Married Jean
Mclntosh, Sydney librarian.
«
• •
Due soon on the bookstands, “Quad-
rant,” a new quarterly edited by James
McAuley. In the proofs it looks a very
promising starter, both in get-up and con-
tent. Handsomely designed and printed, it
is produced under the aegis of the Aus-
tralian Committee for Cultural Freedom,
which relates it to Britain’s “Encounter,”
India’s “Quest,” Austria’s. “Forum,”
Latin America’s “Cuardernos” and other
similar magazines sponsored by the Inter-
national Congress for Cultural Freedom
DAVID LOW, as seen by Hal Gye when
they shared a studio in Melbourne at the
beginning of Low’s own brilliant
caricature-cartooning career with The
Bulletin. “Hal was a fantastic chap,”
says Low —but that’s nothing to what
either the pages, always brightly personal,
of “Low’s Autobiography’ or the pictures
illustrating it as a serial will be saying of
literally scores of others in the instalments
beginning in next week’s BLLETIN
Christmas Number.
or by national committees affiliated with
it. As a sample of things to come, the
first issue of “Quadrant” includes contri-
butions from A. D. Hope, Judith Wright,
Rosemary Dobson, Roland Robinson,
Denis Warner on Communism in South-
east Asia, George Molnar on architecture,
and Alan Villiers on Cook’s seamanship
(Villiers is currently doing a study on
that subject for the Hakluyt Society’s
edition of The Journals of Captain Cook).
McAuley—rSydney-bom and -educated,
two volumes of poetry published, and
currently senior lecturer in government
at the Australian School of Pacific
Administration —has a dry sense of
humor and the kind of wide flexible grin
that Malcolm Muggeridge turns on the
world.
• •
Relieved on retirement by Commodore
J. C. Morrow, D. 5.0., D.S.C., as Naval
Officer-in-Charge Western Australia,
Captain J. K. Walton took over command
in the West 17 months back. A Westra-
lian, Walton had a bad knock when
H. Hobart was torpedoed in the
South Pacific in 1942. Other ships he
served in were Perth and Quickmatch;
peace-time postings included London and
eastern States, with award of 0.8. E.
Commodore Morrow, who’s been Second
Member of the Naval Board, Melbourne,
since last year, is a former superintendent
of training at Flinders, C.O. of the R.A.N.
Training College, and Naval Attache,
Australian Embassy, Washington.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Elliston (S.A.), at 55, W. E. S. Symons,
, manager of the branch department of Elder,
Smith and Co., Ltd., since 1954. Joimng Elder s
in 1916, he’d managed several S.A. branches ot
the firm, and became West Coast supervisor
in 1946.
At Toowoomba (Q.), at 76, James Lockie
Wilson, C.8.E., leading Queensland pastoralist.
Founder in 1905 of Calliope station, near
Gladstone, which became one of the States
foremost Hereford studs. Prominent figure in
the United Graziers’ Association, the Royal
National Association, the Australian Hereford
Society and other civic bodies. Served m the
Boer War and World War I.
At Geelong (Vic.), at. 65, Rev Alexander
Henry Stewart, Presbyterian Chaplain-General
ut the Australian Military Forces. Ordained in
1920, he was appointed chaplain-general in
1945 and served in Japan and Korea.
At Dalby (Q.), at 75, Thomas Fortescue,
prominent Freemason; member ot the com-
panions of the Star of the West Lodge tor
54 years, and A Very Excellent Companion. .
At Ryde (Sydney), at 104, Thomas Rush,
► brother of champion sculler Mtek Rush.
Living at the end with his niece, widow ot
Harry Parkes (son of Sir Henry).
At Northam (W.A.), at 74, Lionel Water-
man Viveash, member of one of the Northa
district’s pioneer-families. Besides working h
farm, he conducted a racing-stud for 12 years
near Northam and, with a brother, was inter
in a noc’-west pastoral property.
At Elwood (Vic.), Leo Little, Q.C., for many
years a brilliant criminal-defence
Military Cross with the 37th Battalion m W
I, he later surrendered a commission to hecorm
a. sergeant-pilot in the R.A.A.F. fo P
Melbourne and University Aussie Rules too
bailer of note, he was also Australian handb
champion.


THE OLYMPIC SPIRIT


ABORIGINALTIES
TPHE fear of Torres Straits skin-diving
natives that the Almighty will—by
visitation of sharks, sea-snakes or other
hazards of , m.-0.-p.-fishing punish
undiscovered or undisclosed sin is so real
that on some islands a species of open
confession before a drift starts is the
rule. Crew-members sit in a circle and
each confesses aloud his secret sins, if any.
There is no holding-out, because of the
belief that an unconfessed sin will bring
disaster on the cutter or lugger. As island
communities are small and most of the
sins are monotonously amorous in charac-
ter, the disclosures, strangely, don’t
touch-off personal reprisals. Immorality
is punishable by Government-sponsored
village-law as well as being a spiritual
offence, and the penitent knows that he
“I've been asked by the church guild, sir, to see if you had a few pictured
you don't want —you see, We're having a jumble-sale."
will have to take his medicine when the
drift is over, which knowledge seems to
satisfy injured fathers, husbands or
brothers. —“Laetitia.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Beating the former record
snapper caught on rod and line in New
Zealand (at Whatipu) and also the Aus-
tralian record fish caught by the same
method (near Sydney), Aucklander C. G.
Marks hooked in a trawling-net in 70
fathoms a 361 b. snapper. It was caught
in the 50ft. trawler San Marie near
Stephenson’s Island, between Doubtless
Bay and Whangaroa. The former N.Z.
record fish was 331 b.; the Australian
biggest 351 b. soz. Latest N.Z. catch was
39in. long and 36in. in girth.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Nick, respected citizen
and long-established caf£-owner in the
little country-town, introduced the new
Greek migrant. “Bill,” he said, “is related
to one of the most famous generals in
Greek history.” He pointed above the
doorway, where hung an imposing portrait
of the illustrious soldier of other
days. Formalities over, Bill departed
kitchenwards.. Leaning close, Nick con-
fided to me hoarsely: “In spite of this,
Mr. McKenny, Bill is actually nothing
but a dirty big first-class waster!”
* * * *
“Moorapi”: In course of erection at
Moliagul (Vic.) is a memorial to Flynn of
the Inland, who was born in that town
in 1880. The 17ft. column, of sandstone
from local quarries and marble from
Centralia similar to that used for the
memorial church at Alice Springs, will
be unveiled on December 9. Moliagul
first leapt to fame with the Welcome
Stranger nugget.
* * * •
“Aqua”: The stentorian quality
developed in the voices of our outback
women is truly wonderful. A London
daily, praising Australian Joy Nichols as
the musical-comedy find of the year, says
she sings her numbers “in a voice that
calls the cattle home across the Great
Australian Bight.”
#** * *
“Wester”: The New Aussie’s name was
Carlo Pietro, and he couldn’t speak
English, his mates said. Often he’d
call at the inland post-office for mail,
point to the P-box and then the C-box
and leave with nothing. Until, one day,
he was handed a long, thin parcel,
obviously a car number-plate. The
silence broke. “Sol’ t’ parsted,” he said
mournfully.
* * * *
“Bass”: “Shellback” asks was the
storm off W.A.’s nor’-west coast last
February really a cyclone (B. 14/11/’56).
I’ll tell him what I know about it and
let him judge. Its exact point of origin
isn’t known, but all told it travelled about
5000 miles, brought an average rainfall
of 2|in. to over 600,000 square-miles of
country (the over-7in. area was more
than 70,000 square-miles), and it precipi-
tated about 100,000,000 acre-feet of water
over W.A. and the Northern Territory.
It covered its 5000 miles in about a fort-
nightj did thousands of pounds’ damage
to towns as far south as Geraldton, and
alarmed shipping off Fremantle and in
the Bight. It had all the accepted features
of a cyclone, revolving in a clockwise
direction and with a centre of extreme
low-pressure, and it was in one of the
world’s recognised cyclonic areas. Similar
blows, described scientifically as
tropical cyclones, have hit the nor’-west
on an average of two a year over the last
86 years ; and in addition there are the
smaller blows, known as the cockeye-
bobs, which bring much of the rain to
the Kimberleys and the Gascoyne. The
cockeyes can wreck towns and sink
luggers; they can transform dry creeks
almost immediately into raging torrents.
The big blows can scatter a fleet of
modern warships. Now, “Shellback,” are
they cyclones?
* * * *
“Keima”: Reference here to the tran-
sits of Venus recalls the misfortunes of
18th-century French astronomer Guil-
laume Legentil. He wished to observe the
1761 transit, and decided he could see it
best from India ; but the Seven Years’
RADIO 2UG
TONIGHT
"SAY
WHAT
YOU
THINK"
War was then being fought, and it so
delayed him that he didn’t reach India
till the transit had passed. Eight years
had to elapse before the next ..transit, but
Legentil determined to be in India for it,
and so stayed-put. The transit duly
occurred on June 3, 1769. June 2 and
June 4 that year were glorious days, but
June 3 was hopelessly cloudy; and so ?
after that interminable wait on a foreign
strand, Legentil saw absolutely nothing
of Venus in transit. Heading home, he
was twice shipwrecked, eventually getting
babk to Paris —after being away 11 years
—to find that he had been presumed dead
and his property already distributed! ,
* * * *
“Kelms”: He was bigger than a hornet,
and black, and he was dragging a big
grasshopper over rough ground, using his
strong legs and one pair of wings. When
he —or more probably she—came to a
rise, another pair of wings were brought
into action to lift the burden over; but
the garage-wall called for an even greater
effort, so yet another pair started-up.
That was its limit, but. it was enough to
carry the ’hopper up well above the top
of the door, where it was placed in a
niche in the brickwork. Then the wasp
spun a web around its prey and departed ;
but soon it was back with some mud, with
which it plastered the ’hopper securely to
the wall. Didn’t see the act, but I presume
some eggs were laid before the tomb was
completed. I could have captured the
wasp and taken it for possible identifica-
tion, but I’d never seen its type before
and I’m reluctant to take specimens of
rare species because of the danger of
exterminating them. Anyone classify it
from my description?
* * * *
“G ravelsnatcher”: Challenge
“Swelpme” to give instances of avi-
culturists saving “many rare birds from
extinction” (B. 7/11/ ’56). Birds faced
with extinction have become rare through
natural processes extending, usually, over
hundreds of years, and caging them
wouldn’t arrest that trend. Moreover
they’re almost invariably the sort to
which imprisonment would mean death;
while, conversely, the bird that can
flourish in captivity is the type that does
best in the wild state. Cockatoos, galahs,
budgerigars, parrots and finches are all
recognised cage-birds and all noted for
the numbers in their swarms in the bush
or desert. Never struck the society-finch,
but if it’s a prolific breeder, as “S.” says,
I’d back it to establish itself in, say, sou’-
Westralia. No bird is entirely helpless,
and a seed-eater would soon get a living.
On appearances the Indian or Senegal
turtle-doves that were released in W.A.
about 60 years ago should have been
wiped-out by the local birds-of-prey ; as
it is, they’ve become confounded
nuisances.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The measures adopted by
New Zealand’s Government to arrest
inflation includes clamping-down on the
time-payment system. One segment of
the Dominion’s population that
appreciates pay-as-you-use is the Maori.
Concerning one amenity the system as
applied may be summed-up in four acts:
(1) The instalment-man setting-up treadle
sewing-machines for the wahines in the
whares ; (2) wahines transfer to out-of-
doors and peddle away more for fun than
for sewing Henare’s pants; (3) the
wahines’ dusky kids take possession and
indulge in speed competitions; (4)
arrival of the time-payment man with a
truck to gather up the machines and
return them to the shop.
* * * *
“Rock-picker”: The young learner-
shearer was having a rough time with the
wethers, and the wethers were having a
rougher time with him. A slip of the
handpiece and there was one dead sheep.
Sheepishly he asked the trump what he
would do with the carcass. “Oh, don’t
worry,” said the boss. “Just throw it
in the corner. We’ll use it for patches.”
* * * *
From Dame Mary Gilmore, who was
mentioned in The Bulletin article
referred to:
As a matter of historical value I was glad to
see Ken Barratt’s account of his people, “The
Browns of the Rivers,” in The Bulletin. Let
me add a few more bits.
“Captain” Bfown would never allow work
on Sunday, so the rival steamers always got
the Sunday loading, his loss being sometimes
£3OO or £4OO in one lot.
The family’s first property in Melbourne, 1
was told, consisted of what is now Toorak,
but was lost when the family solicitor
absconded to America with the deeds. The
family had property and the usual estates in
Chancery in England. The deeds for these
on their way to Australia sank in the London
on January 11, 1866 (the celebrated actor G. V.
Brooke was among those who were lost in the
London).
Many years ago I read in the “Times” that
the mother of Captain Brown was one of Dr.
Barnardo’s early helpers.
Entomology and natural history ran in the
family for generations. An antecedent was the
first British naturalist to go to Madagascar.
There he found a giant web-spinning spider,
similar to the one in Australia; ours caught
small birds, as I have seen, and of their webs
our aboriginals made fishing and snare lines. 01
the Madagascar spider-web enough silk was
gathered to make a shawl for Queen Victoria,
of which she was very proud; it was so
beautiful, so fine and so light.
Of one of Captain Brown’s sons, then about
eight, and in the habit of getting up at early
dawn, I once asked, “Why do you get up so
early, Horace?” “There’s different spiders,
then,” he replied.
When Capjain Brown ran his fleet in the
’eighties, Wentworth was the third-largest port
for cargo in N.S.W. The two larger were
Sydney and Newcastle.
With his own vessel, Mrs. Brown’s grand-
father ran the blockade of Chinese pirates as a
trader in the East. When I was young the
Brown house was a treasury of Eastern weav-
ing, porcelain and ivory carving.
AT THE CANTON CAFE
At the Canton cafe
Prawns onions garlic mince and mush-
rooms
Slide around on the smell of frying lard
Like goldfish in a bowl, assault the nose
In deliberate succession.
Old digger opposite, shiny with sweat,
Bends across his plate and wistfully
speaks —-
‘‘Workin’ on the Kyogle line long time ago
There was a Swede goin’ to New Guinea
For gold; wanted a mate to hold a rifle
While He dug; I shoulda gone ;
I feel the heat, cant work in the heat.
I didn't go ; a man shoulda gone,
I mighta made a quid.”
Imperturbable waitress leads a heart
To the trump sitting at the island table
Completely surrounded by smoke and
onions.
“That was before the war,” says the old
digger;
“That was before l got married.”
Brown eyes with bloodshot whites
pleading
Held a gun on me while he dug in his
pockets:
“Spare two-bob for an old feller ?”
And onions onions onions from the
kitchen.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.


IXL
This World Famous Brand Is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Pachers of*—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED '
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
‘ AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
qou should
know
[he
Jxx
<SS
(2 /2 S
-
csso
-bi| University Engineers
More than halve the wear in your car engine by switching to Esso Extra
Motor Oil today. This modem superior lubricant has been proved, in com-
pletely independent tests, to more than double the lile of automotive engines.
So cut top overhaul bills, get a cleaner, more efficient motor with the
equivalent of four extra octane numbers in increased performance by speci-
fying Esso Extra Motor Oil.
to s/ve vou Moee re am
r^CSsso
■
T
ATLANTIC UNION OIL COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
ANEW Australian who had been fish-
ing off the North Queensland coast
rushed back to the camp claiming that the
sea was swarming with snakes—if you’ve
never seen it before, it does take a bit of
believing. They’re, sea-snakes, of course,
and at times they drift on top of the water
in a solid mass. There are over 50 species
and Australia can claim about a dozen
of them. All are venomous, but deaths
among Europeans are rare —native fisher-
men in the East are the main victims.
Most sea-snakes produce their young in
the water and few grow longer than 6ft.,
though the record for this country is
12ft. 4in. The commonest species in
Australia—the “yellow-bellied,” found in
all tropical waters—is often washed up
on N.Q. beaches after a heavy blow. —
“Agricola.”
# # * *
“Tabba”: Wanted a long five-eighth
auger-bit and bought what the shopman
called a wagon-bit. The shank is square
and tapers-off at the end without any
shoulders, so that it just slips out of the
chuck when I try to withdraw it from a
post. Anybody with a wagon is welcome
to it if he can tell me what use a wagon
has for it.
* * # *
“Eegrek”: Thfe largest of the blocks
of Castlemaine granite over the grave of
Burke and Wills in Melbourne cemetery,
weighing 35 tons, presented a problem to
the road-hauliers of the day. The con-
tractors undertook to quarry and deliver
it to Melbourne for £l3O, but it had
already cost them £2OO when it was still
only two miles away from the Mt. Alex-
ander quarries. Crab-winches were used
to move it from there to Harcourt railway-
station, and the journey lasted six weeks.
Trouble was again experienced in raising
it into the prepared railway-truck, and
the journey to' Spencer-street station
necessitated frequent stops when the axles
became overheated.
* * * *
“Cooroy”: Apropos party-line phones
(B. 14/11 / ”56): during a conversation
with his agent over one in Western
Queensland the speaker followed a remark
with “Don’t you think so, Mrs. Merino?”
Before the lady realised her position she
chimed in with, “Of course I do, Mr.
Woolbags”; then quickly slammed on
her receiver as Woolbags remarked: “One
less stickybeak on the line.”
* * * *
“Mackville”: The ball of silver-grey
fur‘curled around the foot of the box-
sapling could have been mistaken for the
body of a dead possum, but there was
something wrong about it. I pushed
through the scrub to investigate and saw
a phenomenon. The ball was composed
of thousands of inanimate processional-
caterpillars (“itchy grubs” in my youth).
And over the mass extended a bluish,
furry mould similar to the fungus which
sometimes appears on decaying vegeta
tion, but much more prolific. I probed
the caterpillars with a stick and found
they were alive. There is no novelty, of
course, in the sight of perhaps 50
processional-caterpillars wriggling along
head-to-tail like long, thin, furry snakes,
but how such an uncountable numbei
came to be in a massed collection, and
for what purpose, has me puzzled.
* * * *
“Wester”: Thousands of steel sleepers,
imported from Great Britain, are to be
used on the Great Northern Railway (Q.)
to Cloncurry and Mt. Isa, en route to the
Mary Kathleen uranium-field. Cost,
around £3 each—some three times the
price of wooden sleepers, which fall too
easily to termites.
“Woorarra”: A surprising number and
variety of birds nest on the ground.
Excluding sea-birds, but including those
of estuaries and inland waters, I make
the tally of habitual ground-nesters a
shade over 100, about half that number
just escaping the classification, and
a few casuals which can’t make up their
minds. The latter include several ducks,
which sometimes hatch their babes in
hollow spouts and sotnetimes 'on the
ground—surely unpredictable alternatives.
Among habitual ground-nesters it seems
odd to find several pigeons and two
parrots. One usually associates parrots
with hollow spouts, often at dizzy
heights, but the ground- and night-parrots
forsook the safe habit of their tribe, with
the result that they are extinct, or almost
so. We have a grass-owl which nests
on the ground, and a cave-owl whose eggs
are hatched on the floor of caves. A
ground-nesting land-hawk seems out of
character, but the swamp-harrier builds
its substantial structure among the grassl-
and swamp-fowl upon which it preys.
The greatest peril to native ground-
nesters is the imported fox, and the
menace grows greater as rabbits decrease.
SUMMER EVENING
Now let the evening fold us gently in,
Children of grace, and certainly of sin :
Let be for all the one grave, deep delight,
Man knows alone at coming in of night.
The magpie has a hundred things to say
He quite forgot through the long drowsy
day;
Or he was wise to keep his last and sheer
Music until a star should come to hear.
And may this music and this listening star
And this delight.be with us still when far
From the safe harbors of the day we creep
Across the lonely oceans of our sleep.
U.S.A.
ERNEST G. MOLL.


(bbumtob +#
U
V
; OJL>- —\
--
' —rrT'flf
1
w
m
TfljL
a
COVE 'N
3
C 3
3^
C 3
o
>2>
3)'j
<rl
v-mj*
8
o&Uc£
CR
E /
9-r*
m
-Ulul.
<s»^s»
0 00 J
®
'"-4
©
cK>»iX
c-s
-«Vi^
1 Buckingham 4 Duke of York
Palace Statue
2 Horse Guards 5 Nelson's Column
3 Admiralty 6 Wellington Arch
and St. George's
da
N
In Old Bond Street, at the very heart of
London’s quality tradition, is the home of
Benson & Hedges. Here, for close on a
century, Benson & Hedges have quietly
pursued their task of providing cigarettes
made of the finest of fine tobaccos, blended
with superb skill and care.
It is this unchanging, unswerving regard
for quality which still makes these famous
Benson & Hedges cigarettes, in the familiar
red tin, the choice of those smokers whose
concern is with quality first and not with
price.
For, after all, what do a few pence matter
when smoking is to be a real enjoyment and
pleasure—when only the best will do?
’ APPOINTMENT
ED MAJESTY THE QUtlft
TOBACCONISTS
BENSON A MEOCIS VTO
Bensoncmj. Hedges
OLD BOND STREET • LONDON • W
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney*
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest. rate 9.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Business. Rollery, ETC.
Market Bubbles
'"THOUGH the sharemarket is
still at a much lower level
than it was in July, 1955, strong
bubbles of particular interest
keep rising to an otherwise
flatfish surface. This applies not
only to shares in respect of which
favorable announcements of a
definite nature have been made
by the company concerned ; the
sharemarket is making its own
deductions concerning the effect
of present economic develop-
ments on particular enterprises.
Hence strong rises in Masonite,
Associated Pulp and Frederic
Ash.
Stimulated by actual company
announcements have been
Email, Tecnico and Australian
Wool Brokers, among several.
The economic position is
certainly full of interest, even if
not of stability. The export
situation is improving, there is
more money coming into the
country, the urge to expand
is still strong in most essential
industries, and the Duke of
Edinburgh has been making some
inspiring observations. On the
other hand, the internal cost
position is not good, and the
effects of the Suez crisis on
world costs and availability of
raw materials has yet to be
determined.
Cash and Conversion Loan
HTREASURER FADDEI)! has
reason to be pleased with
the success of the latest Common-
wealth loan. The cash offering
of £29.2 million brought in
£30.1 million, and £36 million of
£40.8 million maturing loan was
converted ; £3.5 million was
redeemed, and £1.3 million is
still outstanding.
Terms offered on the new loan
were slightly more in the
Government’s favor than on the
previous offering. And there is
now a tendency for hire-
purchase rates to shorten.
Enterprise and Progress
ADDRESSING shareholders
in the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, chairman H. D. Giddy
this year discussed the extent of
Government intervention in
Australian industrial affairs and
made some striking comparisons
with other countries.
The great events of our recent
history Federation, World
War I, the world depressioh,
World War 11, and the estab-
lishment of the so-called Welfare
State —have all provided oppor-
tunities for the acceleration of
this trend in Australia.
From determining just what,
how and when the small
shopkeeper or individual pro-
ducer may sell or produce, there
tower legislative controls com-
prising import-restrictions, price-
controls, bank-credit control,
foreign - exchange control,
interest-rate control, wage-deter-
mination, and Government-
sponsored marketing regulation.
To these must be added the
sweeping influence of heavy
taxation.
“The proportions of expendi-
ture for civil purposes in both
U.S.A. and Canada are well
below ours,” said Mr. Giddy,
“and far below that for the
United Kingdom. Leaving
defence out of the discussion, if
the United States and Canadian
ratios applied here, public
expenditure would be lower by
around £5OO million and £3OO
million a year respectively!”
Even granting that these com-
parisons are rough, he continued,
in plain language they mean that
the American and Canadian free
markets are much wider and far
less obstructed than ours or the
British. There is a vital lesson
for us in this, because the
dynamic quality evident in these
two great North American
nations is exactly what Australia
needs if we are to forge ahead
unhampered. Those countries —
and there are others, West
Germany, for example—give full
recognition- to the virtues of the
free market and to the incentive
of rewards for individual enter-
prise and effort. They refuse to
become bogged-down by search-
ing, through Government restric-
tion, for economic security at any
cost. They also suffer less from
inflation than almost anyone
else, itself a powerful destroyer
of open-market conditions.
Bank Profits
nrHE Bank of N.S.W. chair-
man, Sir Leslie Morshead, in
his annual address pointed out
that although the maximum
overdraft rate of interest in
Australia was increased from
5 p.c. to 6 p.c. in March,
increased earnings were sub-
stantially offset by the fall in
total advances, a rise of 1 p.c.
in interest-rates paid on interest-
bearing deposits, and a reduction
in the rate of interest received on
balances lodged in the special
account with the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia. As this
i eduction, from 15s. per cent,
to ss. per cent., applies to the
whole of the £62 million now
held in that account, it will be
apparent that the effect on the
’Wales’s earnings is considerable.
This additional excursion of
the Government and the central
bank into the realms of profit-
control is a form of discrimina-
tion against a sector of the
economy whose profits are
moderate either by the standard
of other industries or by the
standard of banking-systems in
other countries. The major
portion of the earning-power of
the trading-banks has been
virtually pegged for many years,
and, unlike other businesses, the
banks have had to absorb
steadily - rising costs almost
wholly by increasing mechanisa-
tion and improving efficiency.
The Sydney Basin
[From L. Owen]
AS a general guide—clearly
to be accepted as such—it
may be stated that marine beds,
rhythmically deposited, offer
suitable source - beds for
petroleum and that porous
and permeable strata, folded,
faulted and even slumped
to produce traps possessing an
adequate closure, offer a promis-
ing environment for the segrega-
tion and preservation of the
petroleum generated. It must be
remembered, however, that
conditions which allow of the
generation of petroleum in
small, uncommercial lenses are
much more commonly encoun-
tered than is usually recognised.
Within the confines of the
Sydney Basin, however, I have
not encountered the combination
of conditions —except in a few
restricted areas —necessary for
any reasonable hope of the
presence of deposits of economic
value.
The only well at present
drilling within this basin is the
Dural bore (B. 23/11/’55),
located over a year ago and
spudded-in in mid-July of this
year. On November 28 the well
had reached the depth of 3072 ft.
Three shows of gas have been
reported to that date.
The first occurred at 1334 ft. ;
on analysis, it was found to
consist of 93 p.c. of inflammable
gas, predominantly methane.
For reasons not stated, the show
was considered to be derived
from the Upper Coal-measures
and was “regarded as encourag-
ihg because the more favorable
zones lie at deeper horizons.” My
own opinion is that it came from
a lignitic lenticle in the Hawkes-
bury sandstone, and that it is
without significance in the search
for oil or even for commercial
gas.
The second and third shows
were encountered at 2940 ft. and
3063 ft. respectively, presumably
in the lower portion of the
Narrabeen beds. Both shows
may, of course, have migrated
upwards from the Upper Coal-
measures which the bore should
now be approaching; further
shows of gas are to be expected
as the well deepens, but it is
very doubtful if, in sum, they
will be worth collecting for sale.
In view of the failure of the
Balmain colliery to produce
commercial results from a very
large exposed surface of
Upper Coal-measure beds, the
chances of payable gas-produc-
tion from a borehole, with a
very much smaller surface to
draw upon, are remote.
Gas (predominantly methane)
is found, normally, in coal-beds
and in carbonaceous strata
generally, and its. presence has
no bearing on petroleum
prospects.
Coote and Jorgensen
A DECISION has at last been
reached by the Borg-Warner
Corp. (Chicago) and Coote and
Jorgensen, Ltd., Sydney. The
market has been speculating for
many months about whether the
Chicago firm would come to the
party, or, if not, whether British
interests would be in it.
Coote and Jorgensen, engineer
and gear-cutter, as a modest-
sized concern did well for a long
time, then overexpanded, and
after the 1951 recession got into
trouble.
In the two years to mid-1952
£1,213,000 of new capital had
been issued, raising the total to
£1,633,000, all but £120,000 of
it in ords. The debt increased at
an even greater rate.
Ord. divs. averaged 10 p.c. for
the nine years to 1950, followed
by 8 p.c. and 4 p.c. in 1951 and
1952 respectively. Since then (to
June 30 last) losses have totalled
£1,053,586.
The loss for 1955-56 was
£251,498, compared with
£537,991 in the preceding year.
Intangible assets in the
balance-sheet are now in the
vicinity of £814,000, which is
slightly more than half the ord.
capital.
Borg-Warner’s terms are:
(1) C. and .J. to write-off 108. on
each of the 1,513,000 £1 ord.
shares;
(3) Borg-Warner will take up, at
par, 1,300,000 10s. ords. for cash;
(3) Borg-Warner will take up
1,300,000 0 p.c. participating
prefs. of 10s. each for cash;
(4) Borg-Warner will be given an
option to take up, for cash, a
further 500,000 10s. ords. at be-
tween 13s. and 175., and a further
500,000 C p.c. par. pfrefs. at 135.;
(5) Subject to agreement on the
other terms, Borg-Warner will
offer to buy the existing pref.
shares—7 p.c.s at 305., the 5
p.c.s at 15s.
Assuming that the writing-
down is carried out and the deal
goes through, but before the
exercise of any options, paid
capital will rise to £2,176,500, of
which £650,000 will be ords. held
by Borg-Warner and £756,000 by
outsiders ; with £770,000 of pref.
shares, all held by Borg-Warner.
Borg-Warner’s immediate ord.-
share interest would be about
46} p.c., wijh 100 p.c. of the
prefs. (which have voting-rights
while the divs. are in arrears).
Control largely passes to Borg-
Warner when the deal is com-
pleted. It ofily requires the
exercise of the option over the
additional 500,000 of 10s. ords.
to give it a predominant piopor-
tion of the ord. shares. And in
the meantime the prefs., which
have had no div. since 1954,
carry voting-rights.
The arrangement should
mean the entry of a powerful
force into the Australian auto-
motive industry, and the
rehabilitation of Coote and
Jorgensen finances should begin.
(At June 30, 1955, C. and J.
owed the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney £2,949,673.)
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
£AN anybody, outside Govern-
ment circles, fairly indicate
how we stand, where we are
going and what price we shall
have to pay for Nasser?
The country is riven by an
intellectual cleavage powerful in
feeling. Two 'junior Ministers
have resigned in circumstances
every bit as strong as the Prime
Minister’s own disagreement with
the policy of the Chamberlain
Government. Three of the
Sunday “Observer’s” trustees
have also resigned, but for a
different reason that they
couldn’t support the editorial
policy which castigated Eden for
his “crookedness” and called for
his dismissal.
Scenes in the House of
Commons have never been wilder


ESTABLISHED
IN THE YEAR 181?
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
DIRECTORS:
Sm LESLIE MORSHEAD, k.c.b., k.b.b., C.M.G., D. 5.0., President
JOHN CADWALLADER, Esq.
The Hon. R. C. WILSON, c.m.g., m.l.c.
D. B. LEWINGTON, Esq.
S. G. ROWE, Esq., d.s.o.
p
FAIRFAX, Esq.
DUNLOP, Esq.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES
General Manager H. C. C. MARSHALL
Assistant General Manager R. J. ABERCROMBIE
Chief inspectors D. W. GARLAND, R. R. McKELLAR, A. STEWART-RICHARDSON
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th September, 1956
Authorized Capital—
-878,000 Ordinary Shares of £2O
each - £17,560,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors 17,560,000
£35,120,000
Issued Capital-
-878,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid
Reserve Fund - -
Premiums on New Share Issue
Proposed Addition for the Year
£10,250,000
1,097,500
652,500
Proposed Final Dividend payable November, 1956
Profit carried forward
Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills Payable
and Other Liabilities, including Provision for
Income, Land and other Taxes and Contingencies
Deposit Account of Bank of New South Wales
Savings Bank Limited
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks ™
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as per
contra —.—
£17,560,000
12.000,000
395,100
779,981
£30,735,081
434,333,189
8,957,341
80,917
1,133,968
£475,240,496
46,580,694
£521,821,190
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers £18,532,062
Money at Short Call —London 4,125,000
Short-dated Treasury Bills —Australia and London 22,375,000
£45,032,062
61,820,000
10,498,717
27,485,253
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of New
Zealand - —.— •—, •
Government Securities —Australia, New Zealand
and Fiji—at or under market value
Local and Semi-Government Authorities’ Securities
at or under market value -
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Amounts due by Other Banks ~
513,665
50,579,037
11,095,895
Loans and Advances to Customers and Local Bills
Discounted (less Provision for Bad and Doubtful
Debts)
Bank Premises at cost, less amounts written off
Shares in Bank of New South Wales Savings Bank
Limited - - -
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit, Guarantees, etc., as per contra „
£207,024,629
\ ;
257,903,713
9,000,000
1,000,000
312,154
£475,240,496
46,580,694
£521,821,190
H. C. C. MARSHALL, General Manager.
C. R. WATSON, Chief Accountant.
L. J. MORSHEAD, President.
J. CADWALLADER, R. C. WILSON, Directort.
Net Profit for Year ended 30th September, 1956, £1,780,033
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
(incorporated in new sooth wales)
BALANCE SHEET as at 30th September, 1956
Authorized Capital—
-10,000,000 Ordinary Shares of £1
each ..... £10,000,000
Issued Capital—
-1,000,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid _
Profit carried forward
Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills Payable,
and other Liabilities, including Provision for
Income Taxes and Contingencies _ _
£1,000,000
37,135
£1,037,135
41,465,268
£42,502,403
Cash at Bankers —
Bank of New South Wales £8,957,341
Commonwealth Bank of Australia 2,625,000
Short-dated Treasury Bills —Australia _
Government Securities —Australia
at the lower of cost or redemption value
Local and Semi-Government Authorities’ Securities
at the lower of cost or redemption value
Loans and Advances to Customers
(less Provision for Bad and Doubtful Debts)
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances
£11,582,341
3,750,000
£15,332,341
23,543,241
3,037,202
338,076
251,543
£42,502,403
H. C. C. MARSHALL, General Manager.
C. R. WATSON, Chief Accountant.
L. J. MORSHEAD, Chairman.
J. CADWALLADER, R. C. WILSON, Directors
Net Profit for the Year ended 30 th September, 1956, £37,135
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET as at 30th September, 1956
Authorized Capital—
-878,000 Ordinary Shares of £2O
each £17,560,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors 17,560,000
£35,120,000
Issued Capital-
-878,000 Ordinary Shares fully paid
Reserve Fund
Proposed Final Dividend _
Profit carried forward
£17,560,000
12,000,000
395,100
817,116
Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Accrued Interest, Rebate, Bills Payable
and Other Liabilities, including Provision for
Income, Land and other Taxes and Con-
tingencies —.
Notes in Circulation ..... -
Balances due to Other Banks
£30,772,216
475,798,457
80,917
1,133.968
£507,785,558
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, Guarantees, etc., as per
contra , „ 46,580,694
£554,366,252
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers
Money at Short Call —London
Short-dated Treasury Bills—Australia and London
Special Account with Commonwealth, Bank of
Australia _
Statutory Deposit with Reserve Bank of New
Zealand ... ..... .....
Government Securities —Australia, New Zealand,
and Fiji ..... .....
Local and Semi-Government Authorities’ Securities
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Amounts due by Other Banks
Loans and Advances to Customers and Local Bills
Discounted
Bank Premises
Accrued Interest and Sundry Balances
Liabilities of Customers and others on Letters of
Credit, Guarantees, etc., as per contra .....
£21,157,062
4,125,000
26,125,000
£51,407,062
61,820,000
10,498,717
51,028,494
3,550,867
50,579,037
11,095,895
£239,980,072
258,241,789
9,000,000
563,697
£507,785,558
46,580,694
H. C. C. MARSHALL, General Manager. L. J. MORSHEAD, President.
C. R. WATSON, Chief Accountant. J. CADWALLADER, R. C. WILSON, Directors.
Net Profit for Year ended 30 th September, 1956, £1,817,168
A5639h
or more out of control, with
enraged Labor members upbraid-
ing the Prime Minister as a
murderer and in other no less
unparliamentary language.
Private and Public Views
The odd thing is that, while
dons expostulate and moralists
throw up their hands, the
Government actually stands
stronger in the public confi-
dence than it did before
the Egyptian landings. This
is not so much a vindication
of Eden as an affirmation that
the ordinary men and women
have kept their heads better than
the intellectuals and enlightened
moulders of public opinion.
This circumstance should be
heartening to the Prime Minister.
For in others’ eyes he has never
set a foot right since he took
over from Churchill. It is
doubtful if any previous Prime
Minister of such good record
has suffered so rough and lonely
a passage. The Opposition,
because he is leader of the Tories,
are after his blood; and they
are, as a body, so puny by com-
parison with ttye weight of affairs
pressing upon any potential
Government, that they can do
nothing better than belittle or
disparage.
For some reason, certain
sections of the press have gone
out of their way to depreciate
Eden on almost every occasion,
showing him as a muddling,
vacillating old “has-been,” over-
spent, overtired and overweary.
Certainly, he has done little or
nothing to refute these criticisms
or to strive to win the confidence
of his critics.
Yet he has enjoyed the (almost)
full confidence of his party and
colleagues and maintained,
without campaigning, the respect
and affection of the broad mass
of the people.
It may well be that, as a
sensitive and at times touchy
man, by bristling against extra-
vagant criticism, he has
encouraged it. And he has
certainly given the impression
of “going it alone,” impatient of,
aifd angry with, his traducers.
Steadfast Eden
The rightness or otherwise of
recent actions is a matter for
historians. Eden, who believes
in Britain and the Common-
wealth no less passionately than
does Churchill, may have ignored
Great Britain’s decline in power.
He may even have over-
compensated for his mistrust of
dictators. Who can say?
The fact remains that, during
the whole of his long preoccupa-
tion with foreign affairs, he has
striven, by tactful negotiation, for
peaceable settlement. And if,
after months of laborious work,
the plan has shattered he has
started all over again, patiently,
hopefully. He must have had
very strong reasons indeed for
not turning the other cheek to
Nasser.
The Egyptian incident was a
huge gamble, or, maybe, a huge
bluff. Only the passing of time
can shovy whether it succeeded
in averting a war in the Middle
East or whether it was an ill-
timed thrust. Everybody is
puzzled to know why, once
having taken place, the landings
were cut short.
All that remains is to wait on
events. Obviously, the presence
of a Nasser or any other despot
who can nip Britain’s —and
Europe’s—lifeline is irreconcil-
able with stability or with our
standard of living. The show-
down has been forced. The
immediate cost is heavy. Every-
thing rests on the showdown
leading to the safeguarding of
supplies, particularly of oil,
whether routed through the
Mediterranean, round the Cape
or obtained from the Americas.
In circumstances such as these
the odds are against the man who
takes the initiative. A worsening
of the situation might well mean
the end of Eden’s career.
Capital Murder
It rather looks as if the Silver-
man Bill for abolition of the
, th-nenaltv will suner a
"P d g ath The Commons
the - bil i on a f ree vote,
and the Lords rejected it. Now
the Government has interceded
Pmidde°Bm C and ro the Se abolh
H? n T s S not without cause,
, have been outsmarted,
Under the new bill the death-
penalty is restricted to five forms
of murd er — all involving, or
to involve, “agents of law
and order ”__ an d to successive
murderers. A literal reading sug-
gests that the shooting of a
policeman or a prison-officer is
a more heinous crime than the
poisoning of an invalid for his
money. For the latter, like
strangling, stabbing and most
sex-murders, is a “non-capital”
murder for which the punish-
ment is imprisonment for life.
Plainly, the Government has
had to take notice of very heavy
representations from the Home
Office and to recognise that
ne ?^ er ffi e p 0 nor th< :
g^^^^dett^rryout
o h fficers f feel tl are I fully pro .
tected again * t profes y si Snal
criminals,


Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd.
invites you to discuss
this subject.
DIRECTORS
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman;
Sir EDWAfcD R. KNOX, Vice Chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; D. R. LYSAQHT ;
JOHN W. DUNLOP ; JOHN DARLING ;
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Managing Director.
W. S. MATTHEWS, Manager.
C XECUTORS and Trustees are sometimes subjected to criticism because they are merely
■*—' carrying out the terms of a Will which is sadly out of date or which does not
correctly express a Testator’s wishes. •
Is your Will up to dote? Perhaps you would like to discuss its terms luith us. We
would be glad to arrange an appointment for the purpose. Thereafter your Solicitor
can do what is necessary towards any required alteration.
Full information on this subject will be freely given on application. Why not telephone
B 0377 and make an appointment for the purpose. A Senior Officer will always be avail-
able to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s helpful booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee,” be posted free to you.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR
ABSENTEES AND OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY Offices at Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (CANBERRA)
LIMITED
Enquiries as to the services
and advantages offered by
Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany (Canberra) Ltd. —the
Associate Company in
Commonwealth Territory
may be directed either to
that Company, at its offices
in Industry House, cnr.
National Circuit and
Blackall Street, Canberra,
or to this Company, at
S 3-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney.
Local Directors, in addition to
the Directors of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited:
WARREN D. MCDONALD,
Vice-Chairman.
S. G. McEAREANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mauri Bros. & Thomson, Ltd.
Parent Co.
t Dividends —.
t Pref.——j Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ord. serves.
£, £, £ £, £,
1951.. 86,716 13,500 2190 15 p.c.= 42,843 526,317
Assets revalued, £295,460 .. .. 821,777
1952.. 94,087 13,500 2190 15 p.c.= 42,843 857,331
Reserves capitalised, £285,620 .. 571,711
From provisions, £70,000 .. .. 641,711
1953.. 96,621 13,500 2190 ' 8 p.c.= 64,748 657,894
From provisions, £?000 . . . . 666,894
1954.. 909 13,500 2190 9 p.c.= 73,670 680,443
1955.. 13,500 2190 10 „ „ 84,261 697,722
Assets revalued, £476,657 .. .. 1,174,379
1956.. 142.684 13,600 2190 11 p.c.=107,030 1,194,343
Reserves capitalised, £486,497 .. 707,846
AfAURI Bros, and Thomson surprised
the market with the size of its latest
gift, a one-for-two issue to ord.-share-
holders who were on the books at Novem-
ber 2. Referring to the likely distribu-
tion on the new capital, the chairman said
that “future dividends, of course, must
depend on future profits, but your
directors do not expect that it will be
possible to maintain the present rate of
ordinary dividend . . .” Including the
issue of 100,000 shares to employees, ord.
capital will become £1,559,491, on which
last year’s profit of £142,684, after paying
the pref, divs., represented 8.1 p.c.
Assuming then, for the immediate future,
an 8 p.c. distribution (equal to 12 p.c. on
the old ord. capital figure) the return on
an ex-bonus price of 355. would be 4.5
p.c. Previous bonus-issues were in June,
1952, when £285,620 of ord. scrip was
distributed, one-for-one, and in 1925, when
£126,000 of reserves was capitalised, also
doubling capital. Following the 1952
bonus the div. was 8 p.c.
The present issue is to be financed from
the revaluation of shareholdings in
subsidiary companies. Because of the
co.’s conservatism and the fact that the
N.S.W. Companies Act regarding holding
cos. requires no more information than
is given, the accounts as presented to the
public disclose very little information of
any value to shareholders in assessing the
real worth of their investment, in terms
of earnings or net assets. Hence the
sudden movements on ’Change when the
news is broken. And, in the process,
shareholders who have previously dis-
posed of their holdings are liable to feel
resentful.
It has been apparent, however, that the
subsidiary interests, to which all trading
operations have been passed in the last
few years, have been expanded remark-
ably. Since the last issue of bonus-scrip
nearly 4} years ago, £285,620 in ord.
capital has been raised in cash issues and
another £347,244 to acquire minority
interests in the subsidiaries and new
businesses:
Parent Co.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £171.900 £171,900 £171,900
Ord 809,350 847,044 972,994
Reserves .. .. 680,443 697,722 1,194,343
Overdraft .. .. 92,267 146,379 254,463
Creditors, etc. .. 71,155 96,058 401,349
Due to subsids., etc. 199,534 252,041 329,706
Final divs. .. 49,141 50,197 66,225
£2,073,790 £2,261,341 £3,390,980
Freeholds, plant, etc. 283,526 294,352 338,566
Shares subsids., etc. 1,666,235 1,757,719 2,798,136
Due by subsids., etc. 124,029 209,270 254,278
’£2,073,790 £2,261,341 £3,390,980
Activities of the group spread through-
out the Commonwealth and New Zealand,
and include the manufacture and/or
importation of yeast, vinegar, bottle-seals
and supplies and equipment for cordial-
manufacturers, brewers, bottlers, bakers,
confectioners and restaurant- and hotel-
keepers.
Something more than half the increase
in the parent’s investment in subsidiary
and allied concerns represented additions
at cost. This and the co.’s outlay on fixed
assets (up £44,214) were covered by the
issue of 125,950 £1 ords., bank credit
(up £108,084) and creditors, etc. (up
£305,291). The last item includes pro-
visions for taxation, staff benefits and con-
tingencies. Advances to various offshoots
were £45,008 higher (£254,278) and
another £77,665 (£329,706) was owed to
others.
G. E. Crane and Sons, Ltd.
Parent Co.
/ Dividends To Ee- Ee-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
& & £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £18,426 .. .. 310,290
1950.. 77,260 2,562 21,618 53,080 368,370
Assets revalued, £138,264 .. .. 501,634
Eeserves capitalised, £108,050 .. 393,584
1951. .137,515 7,096 26,776 103,643 497,227
10 p.c.
1952. .144,821 10,000 32,422 102,399 599,626
Tax overprovided, £15,000 .. .. 614,626
1953. .127,506 10,000 32,422 85,084 699,709
1954. .152,298 10,000 32,422 109,876 809,585
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
Add on consolidation, £104,283 .. 913,868
Eeserves capitalised, £32,422 .. 881,446
Unexplained reduction, £792 .. 880,664
12| p.c.
, 1955. .180,725 10,000 42,959 127,766 1,008,420
Assets revalued, £23,526 .. .. 1,031,946
Unexplained addition, £23,188 .. 1,055,134
1956. .166,634 10,000 44,580 112,054 1,167,188
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest.
C'TRONGLY entrenched in the builders’-
supplies trade and well-padded
financially, 89-year-old G. E. Crane and
Sons came through the year ended June
30 with barely a falter.
Not much is said in the annual report
about the year’s business, but obviously
the co. and its shareholders have ground
for satisfaction with a performance which,
despite the slackness in home-construction
and the bigger labor- and tax-bill, fell
1 only £14,091 short of the record
£180,725 profit earned in 1955. The
£166,634 claimed after depreciation and
tax provisions of £41,411 and £109,800,
respectively, covered the 5 p.c. pref. div.
and a solid 43.9 p.c. on capital,
compared with 49.6 p.c. the year before.
Considering the scale of earnings, the
ordinary dividend (averaging 11.4 p.c.
over the last seven years) has been con-
servatively rated, and reserves have
developed a very healthy appearance as a
result. At June 30 accumulated trading
surpluses, etc., stood more than twice the
height of paid capital, which includes
£140,472 of bonus ord. scrip transferred
from reserves in 1951 (one for two) and
1955 (one for ten). On share capital and
reserves both the profit written in 1956
was equal to 9.7 p.c.; in 1955 the return
was just under 11 p.c.
The business had its origins in Sydney
in 1867, and in 1908 was registered as a
proprietary co. In 1948 capital was
reconstructed and the public invited to
subscribe for 6000 £1 ords. at 10s.
premium and for 100,000 £1 5 p.c. cum.
prefs. at par. That made capital £272,950.
Since then another £lOO,OOO of 5 p.c. pref.
capital has been raised and £183,690 ord.,
including the 140,472 bonus shares. The
last cash issue was of 43,218 ords. at
par in 1950, one-for-four.
In 1955 activities were reorganised and
the manufacturing and marketing func-
tions transferred to two newly-formed
subsidiaries, Crane Copper and
Aluminium Pty., Ltd., and G. E. Crane
Pty., Ltd. The factories are at Concord
and Forest Lodge (Sydney) where
aluminium and light-alloy sheet, strip and
circles, copper and copper-alloy sheet,
strip and circles, lead sheet, pipe and
dampeourse, tinsheet and tubing, brass-
fittings for water-, sewerage and gas-
services, extruded-metal containers and
building-trade sheet-metal products are
made. The co. also makes much of the
production plant and all of the tools and
dies used in the Crane factories. Else-
where it has a controlling-interest
in C.O.N. Pty., Ltd. (Queensland), and
is sole owner of Crane (Victoria) Pty.,
Ltd., which act as distributors for the
N.S.W. cos.’ products.
Security is the keynote of the balance-
sheet. Of the £2,477,660 funds employed
in the business, 69.5 p.c. belong to Crane
shareholders:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref. * .. .. .. £200,000 £200,000
Ord. 356,640 356,640
Reserves .. .. .. 1,008,420 1,167,188
Outside interests . . .. 52,060 73,504
Overdraft .. .. .. 439,814 360,880
Creditors .. . . .. 231,246 182,900
Tax provision .. .. 123,755 109,800
Final div 26,748 26,748
£2,438,683 £2,477,660
Land, buildings .. .. 375,917 461,924
Plant, etc 470,424 556,070
Shares 16,500 16,500
Stocks, etc 983,017 945,172
Debtors 564,026 487,767
Cash .. .. .. 28,799 10,227
£2,438,683 £2,477,660
Current liabilities of £680,328 were
covered by stock, debtors and cash more
than twice over.
Plainly expecting the co. to be more
generous with shareholders, the share-
market has lengthened the price of the
£1 ords. in recent months from 575, to
635. 6d. for a yield at the higher price of
3.9 p.c. on a 12£ p.c. div. basis. Net asset
support for the scrip is 85s. sd. Cover
for the tightly held prefs. (not seen on
’Change so far this year) is £8 12s. 4d.
Kia-ora Industries, Ltd.
AN improving turnover in all depart-
ments is claimed by Kia-ora Indus-
tries, Ltd., but, as yet, earnings have
received little benefit, intense competition
forcing the co. to absorb rising costs and
expenses by reducing profit-margins.
The co. has two operating divisions,
one producing canned foods, cordials and
sauces for local and overseas markets, the
other turning-out corrugated- and solid-
fibre containers, paper-cups, etc.
Registered as 0.T., Ltd., in 1909, the
co. took its present name in 1951, when
both pref.- and ord.-shareholders partici-
pated in a one-for-one bonus-issue. The
pref. div.-rate was altered from 8 p.c. to
5 p.c. in the same year, and a further
£175,000 of pref. capital raised, lifting
paid capital to its present total of
£600,000, including £200,000 in 5 p.c.
prefs.
Following the reorganisation of pro-
duction procedures, the canning opera-
tions in Sydney and Melbourne were
transferred to the Bendigo (Vic.) cannery
where modern high-speed plant has been
installed. The container division has also
been re-equipped and moved to new
premises in the Melbourne suburb of Box
Hill.
An 18.2 p.c. increase in food sales on
the local market was claimed by the co.
for the 1954-55 period, and a further gain
of 15.3 p.c. is reported for the year ended
last June, during which container sales*"
(up 11.2 p.c.) and exports (up 15.9 p.c.)
also improved. The co. produced 85 p.c.
of all soup exported from the Common-
wealth during the term.
The almost complete failure of tomato
crop for the third successive year necessi-
tated the use of the more costly imported
tomato-pulp, and, with the impact of
rising costs on profit-margins, the ratio of
profit to sales fell. A higher investment
income (up £lO9O to £14,379) helped to
bring about a £2OB increase in the net
earnings, calculated at £67,481, after
providing £27,634 (up £1521) for deprecia-
tion but only '£12,000 for taxation. No
explanation is given for the comparatively
small tax-provision:
Pakent and Subsidiary.
, —Dividends— N To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
5 p.c. 71 p.c.
1953 .. 62,921 10,000 30,000 22,921 415,724
Profit sale assets, £1299 .. .. 417,023
1954 .. 64,366 10,000 30,000 24,866 441,389
Assets revalued, £38,511 .. .. 479,900
Profit sale assets, £2127 .. .. 482,027
1955 .. 67,273 10,000 30,000 27,273 509,300
Profit sale assets, £3955 .. .. 513,255
1956 .. 67,481 10,000 30,000 27,481 640,736
Ord. div. was unchanged at 7| p.c.
Earnings, after providing £lO,OOO for the
pref.-shareholders, represented 14.3 p.c.
of ord. capital, compared with 14.3, 13.6
and 13.2 p.c. in the three preceding years.
Working-capital fell by £106,310 to
£285,314 over the term, creditors (includ-
ing tax-provision) increasing by £139,860
while the bank advanced a further
£132,738:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Preference .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Ordinary .. 400,000 400,000 400,000
Reserves .. .. 441,389 509,300 540,736
Overdraft .. 246,211 383,009 615,747
Creditors, tax pro-
vision . . .. 151,717 142,664 282,524
Bividend .. .. 30,000 30,000 30,000
£1,469,317 £1,664,973 £1,969,007
Freeholds, leaseholds 177,666 247,369 258,762
Plant . . . . 294,822 334,364 453,921
Shares .. . . 119,776 123,344 130,19
Stock .. . . 674,939 638,160 791,70
Bebtors . . .. 201,238 320,930 333,41
Cash .. .. 877 806 1,01
£1,469,317 £1,664,973 £1,969,00
New plant accounted for most of the
£130,950 added to the cost-/m-deprecia
tion figure shown for fixed assets, and
with most of the co.’s expansion pro
gramme completed, some reduction in
outside liabilities may be expected
Stocks were considerably heavier a
£791,700 (up £153,540), but there has
been some reduction in the current term
New plant and improved production-
methods have led to a higher earning-rate
in the first four months of the current
temi, and turnover in both food and con-
tainer divisions has continued to improve.
Bearing in mind the strong reserves as
well as the improving turnover, the
market prices the f.-p. ss. shares at 7s. 3d.
to return 5.1 p.c. from a p.c. div. At
14s. 6d. the prefs. return 6.8 p.c. There
is a net tangible asset backing of 1 Is. 9d.
for the ords. and £5 14s. Id. for the
prefs.
A. J. Benjamin, Ltd.
TNNER-CITY congestion and the high
-*• cost of public transport have
encouraged the development of pros-
perous retailing centres in Sydney suburbs,
and, as the large chain-stores discovered
some time ago, suburban retailing can
be quite a profitable occupation.
One of the large Sydney suburban
retailers, A. J. Benjamin, Ltd., carries on
a hardware, grocery and softgoods busi-
ness originally acquired by the late A. J.
Benjamin in 1906. Well-established at
Chatswood, on Sydney’s North Shorff, the
co. has extended its interests to Broken
Hill and Blakehurst (Sydney) in the last
three years, and is planning to open a
department-store in the new “Top Ryde”
shopping-centre (about eight miles from
Sydney), now under construction for
Regional Centres, Ltd., in which the co.
has a substantial shareholding.
Benjamin’s has expanded rapidly in
the past few years, and, since conversion
to a public co. in 1951, the book-value
of tangible assets has jumped from
£360,331 to £1,060,439. The public issue
of 200,000 ss. ords. in 1951 brought in
£50,000 plus £25,000 in premiums, sub-
sequent offerings in 1953 and 1956 (both
one-for-two at a Is. 3d. premium), rais-
ing another £283,125, including £60,625
in premiums.
The purchase of Davis Hardware Pty.,
at Blakehurst, early in the last term, in-
volved the issue of 50,000 ords. The
£485,000 paid capital includes £20,000 in
redeemable prefs., held by the M.L.C.
Assurance Co., repayable in instalments
of £5OOO every five years.
Turnover for the year completed June
30 last increased by £377,732 to
£1,870,121, and, although higher expenses
reduced the ratio of profit (before tax)
to sales from 6.1 p.c. to 5.5 p.c., net
earnings showed some improvement.
Provision for taxation was £8422 higher
at £40,017, and an extra £2450 (to


DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... BJSi 2/ r
Yearly Subscription.. 22/6
IV Give him a I
ROLLS RAZOR
NOW WITH
THE NEW
SUPER
BLADE
£0
NOW BETTER
THAN EVERt,
A wonderful Xmas gift! Now better than ever with
new process Super blade. Gives smoother; faster,
closer, more luxurious shaves than ever. Honed and
stropped in its case, the one hollow-ground blade of
Sheffield steel gives YEARS of shaving—saves pounds
in blades. Open-blade efficiency with the speed and
ease of a safety razor. At leading stores, gc.ii/L.
chemists and tobacconists .£5/7/0
ROLLS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA Pty. Ltd.
Wholesale- Distributors:
E. H. MAAS & SONS PTY. I.TD., 8a Castlereagh St., Sydney
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
A Goyern/ne/?f-Guarfl/»teecf 5%% !
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
£s's'-% LOAN
For 5, 10 or 20 Years
The Loan is your opportunity to secure almost double savings bank interest
throughout the term you choose—s, 10 or 20 years. The New South Wales
1 Government guarantees payment of half-yearly interest and repayment of
principal in full at maturity.
Subscriptions, interest and repayment at maturity are free of exchange in terms
of the Prospectus. If you wish, your interest will be credited direct to your
bank account.
An Authorised Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western
Australia and Tasmania. All Trust Funds —including Superannuation,
Provident, Medical Benefits, Church and Club—can earn this highly
• profitable rate.
Instalments are accepted. If desired, you can pay a 10 per cent, deposit on
application, and complete instalment payments by 28th February, 1957.
WHERE TO INVEST
A
You can invest at any Commonwealth Trading Bank, through a stockbroker,
or at the Sydney Water Board offices.
Issued at par, Loan No. 164 is underwritten by J. B. Were & Son, and will close not
later than 15th December, 1956.
£8975) was charged for deprecia-
tion, leaving net profit £2612
stronger at £62,853:
Parent Co.
( Dividend \ Re-
Jne. Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves.
30, 5 p.c.
’52..28,652 1250 10 p.c.= 17,500 60,298
’53-35,473 1250 10 „ „ 17,500 77,021
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Share-premiums, £21,875 . . 98,896
’54-58,526 1250 12J p.c.= 28,438 127,734
Share-premiums, £15,000 .. 142,734
’55..60.241 1250 12i p.c.= 33,906 167,819
Share-premiums, £51,250 . . 219,069
Pre-acquisition profits, £7502 226,571
’56-62,853 1091 12£ p.c.= 43,333 245,000
* Subject to Intangibles, £61,000 at
30/6/’56.
The redeemable pref. capital was
reduced by £5OOO during the
term, and, after covering the
smaller pref. div., earnings repre-
sented a return of 17.8 p.c. on
average ord. capital, following
19.7, 21.8, 19.5, and 15.6 p.c.
in the four preceding years.
Reserves were strengthened by
the addition of £51,250 from,
share-premiums, £12,500 of
which appears to have come
from the issue connected with
the Blakehurst purchase.
Extensions to the Chatswood
premises and the acquisition and
remodelling of the new branch-
store contributed to the £67,298
increase in the cOst-Zm-deprecia-
tion book-value of fixed assets:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1965. 1956.
Pref £25,000 £20,000
Ord. .. .. *297,500 465,000
Reserves .. .. 167,821 245,002
Mortgage .. .. 96,000 96,000
Overdraft . . .. 57,361 92,650
Creditors .. .. 135,997 137,793
Tax provision . . - 32,095 40,775
Final div. .. 17,500 24,219
£829,274 £1,121,439
Freehold .. .. 179,870 225,603
Plant, etc. .. 76,578 98,083*
Investments . . 2,959 2,959
Stock .. . . 292,193 335,637
.Debtors . . . . 237,548 362,616
Cash . . .. 1,126 35,481
Intangibles .. 39,000 61,000
£829,274 £1,121,439
Proceeds of the share-issue were
partly absorbed by the term’s
capital- expenditure, and,
although holdings of cash and
deposits were £34,355 higher, the
overdraft was increased by
£35,289, more money going v int.o
debtors (up £125,068) and stocks
(up £43,444). Working-capital
improved by £150,383 to
£438,297,
The extensive additions to the
Chatswood premises will not be
completed until the middle of
1957, and it is hoped to open
the new Ryde department-store
some months later ; so it would
appear that the co. will have to
wait until next term before see-
ing any appreciable benefit from
the capital tied-up in these pro-
jects. Pref. divs. and a continued
12£ p.c. distribution on the
larger ord. capital would call for
£59,125, or £3728 less than last
term’s earnings.
Supported by net tangible
assets amounting to a shade
under 75., the f.-p. ss. ords. last
sold at 7s. lid. to return 7.9 p.c.
from a 12\ p.c. div.
Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd.
WARNINGS last term from the
■ big silver-lead-zinc and
copper mine at Mt. Isa were the
highest recorded . since Mt. Isa
Mines scrip was listed on
Australian ’Changes in 1947.
Located in nor’-west Queens-
land roughly 1000 air-miles from
Brisbane or Adelaide, the (now
air-conditioned) mine has been
yielding silver-lead ore since
1931. Copper - mining was
commenced during the war, and,
following completion of the
modern copper - smelter in
1952, production was stepped-up
considerably, and now a “sub-
stantial proportion” of earnings
comes from this source. .
As with other isolated mining-
centres, transport problems add
to costs and the difficulties of
management, . both lead and
copper smelters being closed for
four weeks of the last term as
a result of inadequate deliveries
of coal. At present portion of
the blister-copper produced at
the mine is sent overseas for
further refining, much of it to be
shipped back to Australia for
sale. To overcome this position
the co. proposes to construct a
copper-refinery at Townsville
(Q.), but, as yet, no definite
indication has been given as to
when this will take place.
There was an increase in the
amount of exploratory work and
diamond-drilling last term, and
the low-to-medium-grade ore-
reserves at June 30 last were
2,000,000 tons greater in the
silver-lead-zinc section and
2,700,000 tons better in the
copper section:
r Assay—■ n
Ag.,Pb.,Zn„ Cu.
Lead-zinc. — Tons. Oz. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Carbonates .. 400,000 3.5 7.5
Sulphides ..13,800,000 6.1 8.1 6.1
Total .. ..14,200,000 6.0 8.1 6.1
Copper — „ „
Sulphides .. 7,570,000 3.7
Oxides .. .. 230,000 6.0
Total .. .. 7,800,000 —; 3.7
Of the lead-ore, 12,200,000 tons
are classed as “prospective,” the
copper total including a “pro-
spective” 4,800,000 tons. Large
areas north and south of the
lease were acquired following
“encouraging” results from
exploration of the extensions of
the Mt. Isa orebodies.
A smaller quantity of lead-ore
was treated during the term, a
big increase in the production
of copper-ore being responsible
for the higher total tonnage, up
138,284 tons to 1,382,476 tons: 1 —
Orb Milled.
Lead, Copper, Total,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
1953 .. 641,520 206,380 847,905
1954 .. 645,083 565,897 1,210,980
1955 .. 670,514 573,678 1,244,192
1956 . . 656,738 725,738 1,382,476
Assay-values (silver 6.20 z. per
ton, lead 7.7 p.c., copper 3.8
p.c.) showed little variation
except for the zinc content,
which dropped from 5.9 p.c. to
5.4 p.c. The smelter produced
more copper,, but there was less
silver, lead and zinc: .
Lead Blister
June Silver, Bullion, Zinc, Copper,
* go, Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1954.. 2,872,493 35,725 20,512 19,869
1955.. 370.920 39i730 18,701 21,585
1956. .3,289,645 36,545 15,648 24,408
Present production of all ores
is around 5500 tons (mined) a
day, and it is hoped to almost
treble this rate by 1961.
Higher metal prices, particu-
larly for copper, helped to lift
revenue from metal sales, after
deducting transport and
refining costs, by £3,513,874 to
£17,296,830, mine - expenditure,
including lead-bonus, increasing
by £1,759,970 to £10,304,709.
The added income boosted net
profit to £4,301,931, or £994,681
more than in the previous term,
after providing £993,584 (up
£52,334) for taxation and
£1,400,000 (up £600,000) for
depreciation. Also charged
against income were royalties
(£BO,OOO ; nil previous year) and
prospecting £46,250, down
£26,842:
Net
June, Profit.* < —Dividends— v Reserves.
’53..1,668,663 15= 863,597 5,105,000
’54..2,096,274 20 = 1,151,462 6,049,812
’55..3.307,25d 25 = 1,439,328 7,917,734
Tax-refund, £312,618 .. 8,230,352
’56..4,301,931 25 = 1,439,328 11,092,955
* After deducting debenture interest and
allowing for depreciation.
Earnings equalled 74.7 p.c. of
paid capital, so the unchanged
25 p.c. div. left plenty for
reserves. A High Court judgment
improved the position even more,
providing for tax-refunds (for
the 11 years to June, ’55)
totalling £312,618.
Undistributed profits include
approximately £1,000,000 of
exempt income, which in due
‘course will be transferred to a
tax-free feserve. Total reserves
are almost twice the £5,757,312
capital:
1955. , 1950.
Paid capital .. £5,757,312 £5,757,312
Reserves .. 7,917,733 11,092,954
Debentures . . 1,151,656 1,013,524
Creditors, etc... 1,105,812 1,220,334
Overdraft .. 38,156 326,748
Due to subsidiary
cos. . . . . 723,694 1,110,164
Tax provision.. 1,006,592 . 1,031,192
Dividends .. 863,597 863,597
£18,564,552 £22,415,825
Mines and plant 8,520,937 9,322,302
Shares other cos. 1,133,024 .1,101,618
Stocks .. .'. 7,695,055 10,167,097
Debtors . . .. 831,028 843,772
Bonds and cash 384,508 981,036
£18,564,552 £22,415,825
Valued at cost (co. valuation in
the preceding term), stocks again
show a sharp increase, rising by
£2,472,042, and, with a sub-
stantially larger holding of cash
and bonds, current assets exceed
current liabilities by £7,439,870.
At 31s. 9d. the f.-p. ss. stock-
units return 3.9 p.c. from a 25
p.c. div., buyers taking a long,
speculative look into the
interesting future.


Women's Letters
MELEOUBNE
There were 400 overseas guests among
the 2200 who attended the ball at the
Town Hall given by the Lord Mayor,
city councillors and the Olympic Civic
Committee.
The Governor and Lady Brooks walked
to the dais between scarlet-coated officers
of the Royal Melbourne Regiment; a
fanfare of trumpets followed, then the
organ, and bands of the R.A.A.F. and
Army played the National Anthem.
The decof was striking. A backdrop
depicted a view of the city against a blue
sky. In the foreground were the tree-
lined banks of the Yarra, while sloping
down to the floor was a lush green lawn
on which were, in white, the Olympic
circles. And all round the edge of the
stage were banks of lovely flowers.
Flanking the flower-banked official dais
were two Olympic torches, each held by
a golden hand mounted on a square base
of Tasmanian granite, each corner resting
on the back of a golden kangaroo. Within
each torch glowed a red light, which
shone out through thousands of tiny
apertures made to form various types of
Australian native-flowers.
Lady Brooks wore a lovely gown of
ice-blue tulle, the dropped shoulders of
the bodice edged with deeper-blue velvet.
Silver embroideries were on the cascad-
ing panels of the full skirt. The Prime
Minister was accompanied by Dame
Pattie, who wore a gown of gold lame
with the pink of her Order as contrast.
The Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck) chose
a gown of iridescent French-lace in
heavenly-blue mounted on nylon-tulle,
the bouffant skirt draped to one side to
reveal edgings of lace ; the bodice was
held with iridescent straps. Mrs. Henry
Bolte’s oyster satin-brocades had the skirt
slim in front, the fullness of the back
caught by one large matching rose. Mrs.
A. Rylah, wife of the Chief-Secretary,
chose a strapless gown of white pure-silkj
the bodice edged with blue to finish at
the back in a bow with sash-ends.
Other lovely gowns were Mrs. Maurice
Nathan’s ice-blue satin; Mrs. Ronald
Nott’s pale-pink point-d’esprit made with
a long-torso bodice and with bows on
the graceful skirt; Mrs. Leo Curtis’s
dusty-rose silk-shantung; Mrs. Philip
Eleoate’s pale-yellow pleated nylon-tulle,
with its skirt of three tiers ; Lady Clarke’s
oyster satins embroidered in pink and
white; Lady Gengoult Smith’s short
black velvet with a bustle-bow at the
back; her daughter Marian’s picture-
frock of white and pink, with layers of
nylon-tulle petals forming the skirt, and
the off-shoulder bodice encrusted with
pearls and beads ; and Ann Curtis’s white
re-embroidered lace bodice and full white
tulle skirt.
1
☆ ☆ ☆
Legacy’s dinner-ball, held at the Palais
de Danse, St. Kilda, was a success in
every way. Green and bronze leaves,
rhododendrons, peony roses, gladioli and
iris made a brave show in the decorative
scheme.
The Governor and Lady Brooks were
present, with Governor-General Sir
William Slim, Prince Jean of Luxembourg
and his wife, Princess Josephine
Charlotte.
Lady Brooks chose a wide-skirted gown
of ice-blue tulle, with the Empire-bodice
banded in deeper-blue velvet. With it she
wore a matching tulle stole and diamond
tiara. The vice-regal party were met by
Legacy president R. W. Gaylard and
Mrs. Gaylard (she wearing a pearl-grey
chiffon gown, with the full skirt flowing
from a fitted bodice inset with panels of
guipure - lace). Princess Josephine
Charlotte chose a short frock of glitter-
ing silver lame, with jewelled embroideries
on the bodice, and with the swathed
flame-toned chiffon at the waist matched
by her stole.
In the large official party were Mr.
and Mrs. Avery Brundage, the Marquess
and Marchioness of Exeter, Chief-
Secretary A. Rylah and Mrs. Rylah (she
wearing cornflower-blue velvets), the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Lady
Selleck’s gown of rhinestone-studded
mist-blue brocade), U.K. High Commis-
sioner Lord Carrington and Lady
Carrington (her gown of palest-green and
silver brocade), the ball president (Mr.
F. W. Rowlands) and his wife, and
chairman of Legacy’s finance-committee
(Mr. E. T. Bazeley) and Mrs. Bazeley.
Also present were Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly McDonald and
Mrs. McDonald (her full-skirted gown of
rose-pink pure-silk faille with matching
Chantilly-lace forming an apron-effect),
Professor A. Amies (immediate past-
president of Legacy) and Mrs. Amies (in
pale-pink nylon-satins), Legacy vice-
president Ross Shelmerdine and Mrs.
Shelmerdine (she wearing a full-skirted
gown of sapphire - blue pure - silk
erhbroidered with sprigs of white flowers).
☆ ☆ ☆
To introduce their Australian friends
and to entertain members of the Aus-
trian Olympic team, Austrian Consul
F. L. Berger and Mrs. Berger entertained
at their Toorak home. It was an out-
door party in the lovely garden which
slopes down to the river’s edge ; there
were colored lights strung through the
trees, Austrian background music,
dancing by Austrians in gay costumes
and the new season’s wine, Wiener
Heuriger, was served. “ Wiener Heuriger”
could be translated as “Wine Garden,”
and the Viennese custom is that vintners,
having their small holdings around the
Vienna woods, have the right to sell the
Dame Pattie Menzies makes her curtsy to H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh
at the banquet given at Menzies’ Hotel by chairman W. S. Kent Hughes
and members of the Australian Olympic Committee, while the Prime
Minister looks approvingly on.
new season’s wine direct to the public.
They do so in their small houses and
courtyards, which are gaily lit, and there
are music and dancing, and guests drink
the new wine, eating with it, cold meats,
cheese and bread.
After aperitifs on the terrace guests
moved into a large marquee. Here
balloons in the national Austrian colors
of red-and-white were strung across the
roof, and decorating the ivy-twined pillars
of the marquee and hanging on lines
above the heads of guests were
gingerbread-hearts, later given to the
guests.
Mrs. Berger, welcoming the 400 guests,
wore a national Austrian dress of red-
trimmed black skirt, jacket and white lace
blouse. The Austrian Olympic team
captured the sartorial honors: the men
in their tailored suits of honey-colored
barathea, the girls wearing trim suits in
the same attractive shade. Guests
included Archbishop and Mrs. J. J.
Booth, Sir Clifden and Lady Eager, the
newly-appointed Bishop Fox, of St.
Patrick’s Cathedral, Minister for Labor
Harold Holt and Mrs. Holt, Sir Frank
and Lady Tait, Legislative Assembly
Speaker McDonald and Mrs. McDonald,
Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside, Sir Arthur
and Lady Warner, and Mr. and Mrs.
Norman Strange.
Later Mr. and Mrs. Berger entertained
about - 150 young guests at a dance in
the marquee to celebrate their son Peter’s
successful termination of his second year
in medicine.
* ☆ ☆
Bowls of lovely pink dogwood
decorated the reception-rooms of the
South Yarra home of U.S. Consul-
General Gerald Warner and Mrs.
Warner for the delightful cocktail-party
they gave for American visitors here, for
the Games. Many guests had come
straight from the Main Stadium, among
them the Mayor of Los Angeles (Mr.
Norris Poulson) and his wife. Lieut.-
General Emmett O’Donnell, of the U.S.
Air Force, was at the party with his staff-
officers. Other guests included Jesse
Owens, former American champion
sprinter, U.S. Consul J. Wiedenmayer
and his wife, U.S. Air Force Attache
Lieut.-Colonel John Hussey Jnr. and his
wife, Lieut.-Colonel Collas Harris and
Mrs. Harris, Assistant U.S. Air Force
Attache Major L. Donnelly and Mrs.
Donnelly, Chief-Secretary A. Rylah and
Mrs. Rylah, and Mr. and Mrs. W. W.
Killough.
A buffet-supper for 20 guests followed
the cocktail-party, at which guests-of-
honor were U.S. Assistant Secretary of
State Walter Robertson and Mrs. Robert-
son, and Mr. Howard P. Jones, Deputy
Assistant Secretary of State.
☆ ☆ ☆
Most impressive moments during the
cocktail-party on board H.M.S. New-
castle came when guests stood in silence
as the Royal Marines “Beat the Retreat”
and the White Ensign was lowered slowly.
The party was given by the Flag-Officer
Commanding the British Fleet in the
East (Rear-Admiral Kaye Edden) and the
captains and officers of H.M.S. New-
castle, Consort and Cockade. The 200
guests included Service chiefs and their
wives and R.A.N. personnel. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. H. J. Buchanan, from
Sydney, were welcomed by many of their
friends at the party.
☆ ☆ ☆
St. Peter’s, Toorak, was the setting for
the marriage of Pamela St. Clair Wilson
and Peter Neville Pierson Lewis. The
bride, who is the youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. St. Clair Wilson, of Wel-
lington, New Zealand, chose a gown of
magnolia embossed-satin and a waist-
length tulle veil caught with a pearl
coronet. She was attended by tiny
Sharon Lewis, the bridegroom’s niece,
who wore a dainty frock of white hail-
spot nylon mounted on pink taffeta;
rosebuds were wreathed in her hair. The
’groom, who is the elder son of Mrs. M.
Pierson Lewis, of South Yarra, and of
Mr. J. Pierson Lewis, of Mundi Mundi
station, South Australia, had his brother
Tony as best man. Reception was at the
home of the bride’s mother; she wore
a frock of black pure-silk with a small hat
of yellow-gold silk roses.
☆ ☆ ☆
A big Olympic party was given by Mr.
and Mrs. Lionel Newton at Ripponlea,
the home of Mrs. T. G\ Jones (who is
Mr. Newton’s cousin). Guests danced in
the lovely white-and-gold ballroom,
strolled in the wonderful garden or sat
round the swimming-pool. Mrs. Newton
wore a sheath-gown of white guipure-
lace; the Empire-bodice emphasised with
a sash of rose-pink satin. Mrs. T. C.
Clark, from Oklahoma, U.S.A., who with
Colonel Clark is a house-guest of Mrs.
Newton during the Games, chose a lovely
gown of orchid-pink satin. Mrs. Jones’s
gown was of deep-royal-blue and black
satin-brocade.
Among the guests were Mrs. Ronald
Nott, who wore with her Princess-line
frock of ice-blue satin a short matching
coat; Mrs. Alan Benjamin, in lilac tulle
skirj and blue satin strapless bodice ;
Senora Sylvana Civita (South America),
whose short black broche-satin frock was
finished at the waist with a large diamente
buckle; Mrs. Richard O’Neill (Cali-
fornia), her silk-linen frock in ice-blue
tonings ; Lady Connelly, in white Chan-
tilly-lace; Mrs. Ralph Freedman, her
unusual short bouffant frock of stiffened
black organza appliqued with black lace-
motifs, the strapless bodice carrying in-
sertions of mauve organza to match the
deep frill on the hem of the skirt; and
Mrs. A. G. Silk, the bodice of whose
dove-grey satins featured pear-shaped
crystal-embroideries.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the Victoria League’s dinner-dance
at Menzies’ Hotel guests were received by
president of the dance-committee Dame
Mabel Brookes, senior vice-president
Mrs. lan Connell and her husband, Mrs.
Ronald Austin and Marjorie Tatnall. A
black tulle gown scattered with blac
sequins was worn by Dame Mabel; pear
embroidery was on the strapless bodice
Mrs. Connell’s oyster-satin • gown
geranium-red pleated-chiffon was Mr
Austin’s choke ; and Marjorie Tatnall
gown featured a wide skirt of white tul e
allied to a strapless bodice of whit
guipure-lace, color-contrast being pro
vided by an olive-green satin sash.
Mrs. F. Hobill Cole’s short frock was o '
hyacinth-blue guipure-lace. Black tulJe
mounted on layers of grey-and-whit
tulle was chosen by Diana Learmonth
Pearls and matching sequins trimmed th
fitted bodice of the amethyst chiffon frocc
worn by Marion McPherson. Of powder
blue and silver lame was the gown chose
by Pamela Middleton. Paddy Wilkinso
wore orchid-pink chiffon. Mrs. Len Vos
Smith’s ballerina-length frock of whit
organza was covered with sparklin
opalescent sequins.
☆ ☆ ☆
A novel party given for Olympi
Games visitors was that by Mr. and Mrs
James McGauran. They hired the launch
Mississippi, which brought the 50 guest
right to the foot of their riverside Toorak
home. After luncheon, served in
marquee, guests went by launch to Haw
thorn, returning for afternoon-tea.
The hostess wore a French-mode
frock of cafe-au-lait lightweight wool
which had a pleated side-drape. Overseas
guests included Mrs. Avery Brundage
the Mayor of Melbourne in Derbyshire
(England), Cr. R. \V. Loake, and Mrs
Loake ; the Mayor of Delano, California
(Dr. Loader), his mother and sister (Mrs
Margaret Davis), and several other over-
seas civic leaders and their wives.
☆ ☆ ☆
The decor at the International Red
Cross Olympic Ball at Scott’s Hotel
on Friday night was certainly striking.
It included a large Red Cross carved out
of ice and a 4ft.-high figure of Florence
Nightingale made of margarine. The
floral section was made up of orchids,
rhododendrons, hydrangeas and gladioli,
potted shrubs and greenery.
The 500 guests were received by the
president of the ball-committee, Dame
Mary Daly, and the chairman of the
Victorian Division of Red Cross, Colonel
A. Spowers,
Dame Mary wore a gown of pale-grey
Chantilly-lace made over orchid-pink
satin ; pearls, rhinestones and pale-pink
sequins embellished the bodice. Lady
Lienhop’s gown of orchidq>ink satin had
the cuffed bodice encrusted with garnets,
pearls and rhinestones; the skirt had
fullness at the back. Lady McCauley
combined tulle and lace in her elegant
grey gown.
One of the loveliest frocks was that of
Mrs. Ronald Nott. Of hail-spotted petal-
pink net, it had a long-waisted tucked
bodice. Mrs. Jim Peters was in white
and silver lame, and wore with it a
peacock-blue taffeta coat which had a
shawl-collar. Mrs. John Gough’s pale-
cognac heavy silk-shantung gown featured
a deep quilted hemline. Mrs. Stanley
Korman’s black satins were patterned in
tropical flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
When she was married at Canterbury
Presbyterian Church Esther, youngest
daughter of the late Mr. A. H. Brown
ans the late Mrs. H. W. Bayliss, formerly
of Wangaratta, wore a gown of white
pure-silk taffeta finished with a matching
sash. The fingertip tulle veil fell from a
coronet of taffeta and pearls. The brides-
maid, Barbara Cox, wore a princess-line
ballerina frock of white flocked-nylon
over lavender taffeta. She had a circlet
of white and lavender flowers in'her hair
and carried a matching bouquet. The
’groom, John Hanson Sawyer, who’is
the only son of Mr. and Mrs. S. J.
Sawyer, of Glen Huntly, had- Warren
Bonning as best man. The reception was
held at the Hotel Australia.


: x
0
General Credits Ltd
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Rates ranging from 5|% for 2
years up to 7 % for five years
and over. Cumulative stock
carrying 6£% compounded on
yearly rests with currencies
of five to fifteen years. Pros-
pectus available at all branches
of The Commercial Bank
of Australia Limited,
Members of Stock
Exchanges and Offices
of the Company.
Bankers for the Issue:
Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited.
Directors : Sir John Newman-
Morris, C.M.G. (Chairman), V. H.
Stanley-Low (Managing), J. M.
Ford, E. W. Cox, John Glen, Eric
Hughes, J. F. Hughes, F. G.
Menzies, C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
General Credits Limited is sponsored by Automobile
Fire and General Insurance Company of Australia Ltd.
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
4951
Legal Notice
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE of the Dominion
of New Zealand, as administrator of the
estate of MARGARET NESBIT JENKINS,
hereby calls upon MARY ANN SCOULAR
(or SCOULER or SCOWLER), some time
of Otaki, New Zealand, Married Woman,
and last heard of in Sydney, New South
Wales, arid any issue claiming through
her any share or interest in the estate
of the said MARGARET NESBIT
JENKINS, late of Otaki, New Zealand,
Widow, to forward such claims to the
undersigned within 90 days of the date
hereof, after which period the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE intends to apply to the
Supreme Court of New Zealand at WeL
lington for an Order authorising the dis-
tribution of the said estate without re-
serving any share or interest for the said
MARY ANN SCOULAR (or SCOWLER
or SCOULER) or her issue. Dated at
Levin, New Zealand, this 23rd day of
November, 1956. —G. O. WAKE, District
Manager, Public Trust Office, Levin, N.Z.
Would anyone seeing this notice and
knowing the whereabouts of Mary Seoular
(or Scouler or Scowler) or any of her
issue, please draw their attention to this
notice.
Your OWN Grain Storage 3
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
WWflWf -
mmmi
AND AUGERS
SILOS
• Heavy gauge galvanised sheets
9 Easily erected permanent
9 Rodent and weatherproof
• Steel earth rings and loading plat-
forms available as extras if required
AUGERS
9 Designed to fill and
empty Lysaght Silos
#Segmented con*
struction for easy
assembly
9 Unique vertical
filling avoids
congestion
Q Vertical sets
complete with
. wall brackets,
chute tubes,
etc.
AUGERS* Suitable
types of Augers to
meet all needs are
available at attractive
prices.
WRITE for further in-
formatin and Agents'
Names to Dept. No.fi j
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght (Australia! Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities.
SSAZ/56
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Rainmaker”
The current offering at
Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre is
described as “a new, romantic
comedy,” which it is ; it might
also be described as having
something of the spirit of a mid-
Western folk-piece in its tale of
a phony rainmaker who stays
on a drought-stricken cattle-
property long enough to con-
vince the homely daughter of
the place that she isn’t homely at
all, and then escapes one jump
ahead of the sheriff. ,
Although there are no real
grounds for comparison, some-
thing in the atmosphere recalled
“The Devil and Daniel Webster”
—possibly it is the way Frank
Waters, as the rainmaker,
suddenly materialises in the
doorway when Lizzie says “Hell,
Hell, Hell! ” ; possibly it is the
way he disappears at the end
when Lizzie decides to settle for
the sheriff’s deputy ; or possibly
it is something in Waters's
lithe, attractive performance that
recalls the late Walter Huston’s
superb version of Old Nick.
Whatever it is, the atmosphere
is admirably created and main-
tained—no doubt by producer
Leo McKern —and Waters’s
beautifully judged and stylish
extravagance makes for one of
the best performances one has
seen from him.
McKern also plays the father
of the family and plays him
with that unassuming style and
detail for which one remembers
his Shakspeare—he still manages
to remain unassuming when he
wipes spilt paint off the floor
with his shirt-tail without
removing the shirt.
Patricia Hill’s Lizzie is
another one for her album, and
Kevin Miles, Robert Levis,
Desmond Rolfe and John
Bluthal complete an excellent
cast.
“Tea and Sympathy”
Now at Sydney Royal, and
already favorably reviewed on
this page when it opened in
Melbourne, Robert Anderson's
discussion of the problem of a
teenage schoolboy wrongly
suspected of homosexuality
makes pretty solid pudding—one
can’t help recalling what a light
trifle a recent French film made
of a vaguely related story about
a pure young man who gathered
wildflowers until a visiting
countess took him away to Paris
for a night or two.
Still, the opening - night
audience at the Royal was
absorbed by the piece and an
occasional gasp seemed to
indicate that Mr. Anderson was
saying things which are not said
in the best drawing-rooms,
Neil Fitzpatrick gives a
remarkably sensitive portrayal of
the young man in difficulties, and
Dulcie Gray brings a gentle
intelligence to the housemaster’s
wife who believes that her
husband’s prescription of “tea
and sympathy” is not the right
medicine in this particular
situation.
■£♦
“The Good Old Days”
At the opening of the current
Sydney Tiv. show a barber’s-
shop quartet, with moustaches
that would have strained six
gallons of soup, came down
among the customers and handed
out jugs of ale. The present
commentator landed one and,
having sniffed it cautiously,
sampled it and found it fair
dinkum. A nice idea, one
thought, and settled more
comfortably into the pew with
the intention of making the
noggin last as long as possible.
One had only lowered the tide
by a couple of inches, how-
ever, when the bloke with
the face-fungus was back like
a barmaid at closing-time
and whisked away the mug
while it was still half-full. Next
time, by Heavens, one will have
a length of weighted rubber
hose in the other hand.
Possibly, of course, the
management was afraid that the
audience might express its dis-
approval by hurling empty beer-
mugs at the performers, but there
was no need whatever for any
such trepidation —the show’s a
good-’un by any standards, with
George Wallace, as Sophie the
Sort on the Bus, and Maurice
Colleano and Jimmy White keep-
ing the house in fits for a con-
siderable part of the evening ;
with Jenny Howard, Queenie
Paul and Millie Hansen showing
how much you can get out of a
ditty by wringing it out with
your bare hands instead of
slipping it through the modern
washing-machine technique.
Among the rest of the even-*
ing’s warbling, hoofing, juggling
and clowning one noted the Hon.
Tony Moynihan wandering
amiably, if a little aimlessly,
about the stage ; and, in a couple
of solos, that lovely little dancer
Edna Busse, as lost as a butterfly
in a sideshow.
$ *
National Youth Orchestra
There were many encouraging
signs in the concert given by the
National Youth Orchestra of
Australia, under Gordon Day,
at Sydney Con. The high strings
conjured an uncommonly good
tone, especially in Haydn’s
Serenade in C, where the serene
mood gave them time to shape
the tonal structure. Under
pressure of speed, however, as
in parts of the Liszt Piano
Concerto No. 1 in which
Beatrice Tange as soloist played
with crisp forthrightness
to become ragged.
There were some good per-
formances from individual wood-
winds —clarinets and oboes were
excellent, but the bassoons
lacked the necessary weight.*
t Beethoven’s “Egmont” Over-
ture, with which the programme
opened, is a severe test of in-
cisive and disciplined playing; it
is heroic music, and that quality
was wanting in the reading. It
was still listenable, with the four
string-sections working quite
well.
Next to the Serenade, the best-
balanced playing was in the
“Beer Gynt” Suite No. 1. There
was grace in Anitra’s Dance, and
liveliness in the final phases of
the Hall of the Mountain King.
But the build-up to the big
climax lacked full drive.
Some traditional Christmas
hymns, and the “Fledermaus”
Overture its basic lilt well
maintained completed 'the
programme.
Artbursts
Olympic Arts Festival
While crowds of 100,000 were
cheering the victors at the
M.C.G., the Pool, Lake
Wendouree and, other venues, a
powerful magnifying glass would
have been required to make a
multitude out of the audiences
that attended the Olympic Arts
Festival of architecture and
sculpture at the Wilson Hall in
Melbourne.
If an odd Olympic visitor had
strayed through the portals of
that strange-looking glass-house
he wpuld have found that the
sculpture certainly matched the
building. If a decent bit of carv-
ing—anything, for instance, as
beautiful as an Olympic athlete —
had got into the show it would
have looked as out of place as
a tiger in a fowlpen. One work
stood out among the others —Ola
Cohn’s “Maternal.” Miss Cohn’s
modelling of the woman clasp-
ing a child, with two more of
her offspring clasping her legs,
is sensitive and tender, and she
has brought out the beautiful
quality of the wood to perfec-
tion.
The best exhibits in the archi-
tectural division were the photo-
graphs of barracks, barns,
churches and houses built in
Sydney, Hobart and Melbourne
between 1790 and 1820. Eliza-
beth Farm at Parramatta, Dun-
troon at Canberra and Bungari-
bee near Sydney are so rich,
dignified and lovely, while the
modern buildings are so
commonplace and arid, that one
wonders why the modern archi-
tects don’t copy them instead of
copying one another.
M. G. S.
Talkies
“The Kentuckian” (Sydney
Mayfair): Burt Lancaster, who
directs and leads in this frontier-
town action-piece, does a very
good job on both counts.
Characterisation is sharp, the
story—about a widower and his
young son who can’t escape the
ramifications of an old back-
woods feud —hangs together
well, and there is ample action.
Diane Foster and Diana Lynn
are the rivals for the he-man’s
biceps.
“Cast a Dark Shadow”
(Sydney Capitol): This English-
made thriller has Dirk Bogarde,
as a rich-widow fancier of
homicidal tendencies, and
Margaret Lockwood, as a well-
heeled widow whose shrewdness
and wit save her from the fate
of her predecessor. Acted with
spirit, kept on the move, and
with credulity not overstrained.
“Wichita” (Sydney Plaza): The
last eight Westerns released in
Sydney have had the same hero:
the gentle fellow whose detesta-
tion of violence is ever frustrated
by the machinations of baddies,
and who is reluctantly forced to
reach for his six-shooters. The
bulletproof goodie in this case
is Joel McCrea, who looks as sad
as a spaniel whale he fills his
opponents with hot lead.


“Dot Alma”
By E. O. SCHLUNKE
WHEN my father sold his
well - improved farm
near the Murray and
moved to a newly
settled district right on the
northern, edge of the Riverina,
my mother was very reluctant to
make the change.
She cherished the refinements
which the women round about
A 1 bury had been able to squeeze
out of their husbands once the
demands of the farms had been
met. 'Nice homes, some even
of brick, with lino, on the floors
and one room at least carpeted ;
pianos and piano-lessons for the
girls, tennis-courts at many of
the places ; the shy beginnings,
in fact, of an, admission that man
does not need to live by bread
alone.
At Hopetoun, where we were
going, she knew they were still
so busy grappling with Nature
that the only things shich were
admired were strong muscles
and shrewd business ability. Still,
as my father repeatedly assured
her, we were not moving among
strangers. There was a com-
munity of our people there, all
belonging to families we either
knew or had heard of; and,
most important, there were the
Ventners.
It was the Ventners who
more-or-less Reconciled Mother.
The name was a synonym for
dazzling financial success, and
as far as my mother was con-
cerned everyone who bdre it
wore a halo.
The original Ventner had had
a nose for the kind of land that
was likely to increase rapidly in
value; he was always about
fifty or a hundred miles ahead
of the slow advance of the
German settlements that spread
,from South Australia through
the Victorian wheat-belt into
New South Wales, always
pioneering areas of cheap
unsettled land, and reselling it to
settlers in the. next wave at
double or treble the price he had
paid for it., But time caught up
with him at Hopetoun, and
instead of repeating his previous
performances he built himself a
large brick house in which to
spend his last days in comfort.
He died just before it was com-
pleted. But several of his family
were still at Hopetoun.
One, Rudy Ventner, had a
wife from the refined south, and
a family of about our ages
whom Mother hoped would be
“good company” for us, and not
too crude, as the children of
pioneers were apt to be. The
other Ventners were Alfred, a
bachelor of middle age, and his
mother and sister, who lived in
the famous brick house on the
old Ventner property.
This family had no interest
whatever for us children, but
quite a lot for our mother. She
had known the sister slightly at
qpe time, and as soon as it
became generally known that we
were moving to Hopetoun, this
woman began to write excited,
sentimental letters to my mother,
recalling a great friendship in
their girlhood and anticipating
the delight of renewing it.
The letters kindled a generous
response in my mother’s warm
heart. Soon she was recalling
touching incidents and steadily
magnifying Alma into a major
influence in her early life. She
told us repeatedly how lucky
she was to have such a true and
noble friend waiting so eagerly
for her at Hopetoun.
“And she’s got such a
wonderful home, too ; the most
marvellous big brick hopse;
better far than anyone has down
here.”
A/TY mother’s grief on seeing
the new farm, and particu-
larly the new farmhouse, which
my ‘father had described to her
as tolerably good, was deep and
shattering.
“I’ll never be able to ask Alma
Ventner here, and so I’ll never
be able to go and see her,” my
mother wailed.
But after about 48 hours
divided between weeping,
unpacking and alleged sleepless-
ness, my mother 'ceased her
grieving and attacked the
problem of improving the
appearance of the weatherboard
house with a frightening
ambition.. We two youngest
boys were driven to long days
of repairing and painting the
outside, while the two girls
scrubbed, polished, made and
hung curtains and painted the
inside.
In the first week of our
occupation a message arrived
from Alma Ventner to the effect
that she was dying to see Mother,
and urging her not to delay until
her house was ready to receive
visitors, but to reverse the
usual procedure and come to her
place at the first opportunity.
To us this seemed a very
generous and sensible attitude,
but Mother was not at all happy
about it. She declared that for
the time being she was far too
busy to go visiting; but there
was a certain severity about her
mouth which suggested that
there were other reasons for the
delay, too feminine for juvenile
males to understand.
During the next week one of
the Rudy Ventner boys rode
over on a horse to tell us they
were all coming to visit us on the
following Sunday. My mother
was extremely sweet to him and
filled him with cocoa and
kuchen. He stayed for the rest
of the day helping us to paint
the house ; and when it got too
dark for that he put in a couple
of hours with us chipping the
grass off the flat ground beside
the house which was to be our
tennis-court. He had heard
about tennis and was enthusiastic
about learning to play it.
The Sunday visit was a great
success. Mother declared in an
emotional voice, and with a hint
of ready tears in her eyes, that
we had found “wonderful new
friends” in the Rudy Ventners.
We youngsters were delighted,
because this impression had
induced Mother to accept the
invitation to return their visit the
very next Sunday.
We knew, naturally, that the
Rudy Ventners had only a
weatherboard house, and
Mother was obviously relieved
when she saw that, while it was
better than ours, it had suffered
considerable damage from a
large growing family. She had
no need * for feelings of
inferiority.
While we were having a
tremendous afternoon-tea of a
great variety of cakes, Mother
was stopped with her mouth
wide open by a question from
Mrs. Ventner as to whether she
had been to see Alma.
“She’s been talking about
nothing but seeing you, ever
since she heard you were
coming.”
It made Mother look guilty^.
especially since we were in th
act of visiting and she couldn
protest that she had no time fo
such relaxation. But Mr
Ventner made light of it.
“Alma can wait,” he assurec
my mother. “She’s only an ole
maid. You wouldn’t want to pu
yourself out to visit her.”
There was a giggle from th
young Ventners as if they wer
rather lacking in respect for thei
aunt. One of the odd reason
for this seemed to be that sh
was always referred to as “Do
Alma” by her German-born
mother, who couldn’t pronounc
the word “that.” They gav
examples of their grandmother’
references:
“Dot Alma, she such a gooc
girl.”
(She was over fifty, it wa
explained to us.)
“Dot Alma, she wash, she
scrub, she polish all day.”
I was surprised at how readily
my mother seemed to be
reassured ; her eagerness to see
her old friend now seemed to
be ebbing fast. Even when we
pressed her to have the Rudy
Ventners at our place the nex
Sunday she agreed, though she
must have realised that it mean
a further slight to Alma.
AT our afternoon-tea, which
competed ably with the
previous Sunday’s in quantity
quality and variety, Mrs
Ventner reported quite unfeel-
ingly that her sister-in-law was
dreadfully injured because my
mother had not been to see her.
Poor Mother had another oJ
her fits of contrition.
The Rudy Ventners, however,
still treated the matter as of no
importance. The father went
further than last time to assure
my mother that his sister was a
“cranky old maid” and undeserv-
ing of her notice. One of the
older girls, missing the warning
look from her mother, piped up
and said:
“She says you’re too stuck-
up to come and see her, because
they haven’t got a motor-car.”
We laughed, because we knew
very well that it wasn’t some-
thing we had that was causing
the delay. But Mother was very
upset. Our visitors, amused at
the whole affair, put themselves
out to comfort her.
“She’s not normal,” said Mr.
Ventner. “The fuss she makes
about that house of hers!”
They looked at each other
with the smug comfort of the
normal. The eldest boy, hitherto
too ardently absorbed in watch-
ing every movement of one of
my sisters to take much notice
of the conversation, broke out
and said:
“She’s never let me come
inside it. Always talks to me
outside the back door if I go
over to see her.”
“What about the time Karl
came down to stay with her?
his father asked. “That’s my
brother who lives way up at
Gilgandra. He was going to
stay a week, but he could stand
only a couple of days. After that
he moved over here.”
“Wasn’t she nice to him?
my mother asked apprehensively.
“It wasn’t that,” Ventner told
her. “He just couldn’t be
comfortable for a second. The\
had wet, cold weather that kept
him indoors, so he was under
Alma’s eye all the time. Hes
a heavy smoker, you see, and
as soon as he got out his pipe
she’d rush fbr her dustpan and
broom, and stand over him
ready to gather up every match


Chateau Tanunda “Historical Firsts” No. 30*
-
— f&ir, *%&*»
* v •*%s*
m
%w
-
r ?
f i, i
mi
mm
mm
t/A
II
11
ff
<SU:
m.
m m
Australia’s First Mint
The discovery of gold in New South Wales
in 1851 and the vast increase in the com-
munity’s wealth which followed, created a
demand for the establishment of a local
mint. There was a serious shortage of
gold coins and for a considerable period
much of the trading on the goldfields was
done in gold dust and nuggets.
One consequence of the lack of ready
money in the colony was that there was
insufficient coin to buy the gold being
produced.
These problems speedily came to official
attention. As a result, a committee of the
N.S.W. Legislative Council recommended
that Britain should be asked to allow the
establishment of a mint in Australia and,
on December 19, 1851, a petition to this
effect was sent to London.
With some right on its side, since Victoria
was rapidly developing into a greater gold
producer than N.S.W., Melbourne pro-
tested strongly against any move to give
Sydney the sole mint for Australia. How-
ever, under an order in council of August
19, 1853, the Melbourne protests were re-
jected and formal permission was granted
Sydney to create a branch of the Royal
Mint. A year later, designs were approved
for an Australian sovereign and half-
sovereign.
The Sydney Mint, which was housed in
Macquarie Street, was opened on May 14,
1855. In the next four years, it coined
more than £5,000,000 worth of sovereigns
and it ultimately produced the impressive
total of 149,000,000 sovereigns. Since,
however, Victoria alone produced more
than £100,000,000 worth of gold in the ten
years between 1852 and 1861, and
Australia’s gold output was nearly
£200,000,000 between 1898 and 1911, this
was only a small part of the total.
Oddly enough, the Sydney mint was
ultimately closed in 1926 because it could
not make a profit. In its last 11 years of
operations it accumulated a deficit of
£17,000.
In spite of the fact that Australia’s first
mint was established in 1855, it was not
until 1863 that Britain passed an Act
declaring that the Australian sovereign
could become legal tender throughout the
Queen’s Dominions and it was another,
three years before this decision was
officially proclaimed.
Although Melbourne’s original protests
against the establishment of a mint in
Sydney were dismissed—as also was a
request from the Victorian Legislative
Council on July 31, 1852, for a local mint
—Melbourne was finally granted per-
mission to strike its own coins in 1869.
A Melbourne mint was opened on June
12, 1872.
Establishment of a mint in Sydney did
much to stabilise Australia’s currency.
At one stage in our early history, traders
had to deal with a mixture of coins that
included guineas, Portuguese johannas,
Indian mohurs, Dutch guilders, Spanish
dollars, ducats, pagodas and rupees.
There was also a period when nun was
the main medium of barter, and still an-
other when holey dollars and dumps
(struck from Spanish dollars) were in
extensive use.
However, even a mint in Sydney did not
end all the currency problems of the day.
Between 1851 and 1868, more than 400
varieties of copper tokens were in use in
Australian shops. When these tokens
and old copper coins were finally with-
drawn, about ten tons of them were
collected.
First in Quality —First in Favour
CHATEAU TANUNDA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
NSW. AGENTS:
★ ★ ★
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 years
*Copies of each of the series printed on Art Paper, available free on application from Tucker & Co, Pty, Limitea
HF3O
he dropped and every speck of
ash he might spill.”
Then Mrs. Ventner cut in:
“She keeps Alfred’s slippers
at the back door, and he’s never
allowed into the house until he’s
changed into them. I saw him
do it one day when I was over
for afternoon-tea,”
“You make me quite nervous
about going to see her,” Mother
said, but I suspected that she
was clutching at this additional
excuse for delay.
“You certainly won’t see me
there,” my father decided.
“Taking off my boots before I
go into her house, as if it was
a heathen temple! ”
TN town a couple of days later
when 1 was carrying some of
Mother’s parcels for her, we
were accosted by a tall, thin,
spinsterish lady with a lean,
hawk-nosed face and a formal
manner.
“You don’t remember me,
I can see that,” she said accus-
ingly to my mother, “although
I wrote to you as soon as I heard
you were coming to live in our
district.”
“Oh, Alma Ventner! ” Mother
exclaimed in tones to match the
letters. “How wonderful to see
you! I’ve been wanting to come
and visit you so much, but it’s
such a terrible business moving
into a house and making it fit to
live in.”
“You weren’t too busy to see
the Rudy Ventners three times,”
Alma Ventner replied, exposing,
the depths of her injury in her
voice.
“The children, they were so
taken up with the Rudy Ventner
children,” my mother said, with
an unction which would have
made any of the child-loving
people of her world forgive her.
“After being parted from all
their friends near Albury, I just
couldn’t deny them their
pleasure.”
But Alma Ventner was
unmoved, despite being an aunt
to so many. She licked her lips
in a nervous manner that made
me fear she was going to repeat
to my mother’s face the accusa-
tion that she was “too stuck-up.”
“Well, anyhow,” she said, “are
you coming to see me, or aren’t
you?”
“Yes, I want to come, as soon
as it suits you,” Mother said,
cornered and rattled. “I tell you
I’ve been trying so hard to make
my house look decent enough
to have people to visit me.”
“Next Wednesday afternoon
at half-past-two.” A challenge.
“Thank you, I’d like that very
much,” Mother said, in her best
formal manner.
Then they were smiling at
each other and bowing polite
farewells.
TjHHEN Wednesday arrived
Mother was full of hesita-
tions. She kept looking at
various aspects of our house and
shaking her head desolately over
the impossibility of ever inviting
Alma into it. *
We drove along an avenue of
sugar-gums up to the front door
of a big brick house that was
obviously an exact replica of
many of the homes in the district
we had come from, designed for
the convenience of the builder
rather than the occupier; It was,
however, outstanding in neat-
ness ; while, a feature we had
never seen before, a battery of
doormats from the edge of the
veranda up to the front door
demanded pointedly that we
remove every speck of dust from
our shoes.
As we knocked and listened to
distant movements inside, we
could imagine the long hall run-
ning past several doors on either
side, through a screened arch,
into a large vestibule at the
back. At either side of the front
door there were narrow panels
of rippled, colored glass, and
as we continued to wait while
mysterious thumping and
rumpling sounds went on inside,
I could not resist the temptation,
despite my mother’s horror, to
try to look inside and see what
was happening.
It’s all right, I couldn’t see
anything,” I reassured her,
although I had vaguely discerned
a queer rising and falling pro-
gress towards the door, like an
exaggeration of the walk of a
cripple with one leg very much
shorter than the other.
Alma was dressed formally in
a long, black frock with lacy
stuff round the high neck and at
the cuffs. She greeted my mother
with stiff politeness, as if she
were-still far from forgiving her,
then she turned to me and a look
of -blank astonishment and
dismay came over her face.
“It’s not your husband!
Didn’t he come?” she exclaimed.
“He asked me to apologise,”
my mother said, not realising
how serious the situation was.
“He’s so terribly busy getting
the farm in order. It was in a
really dreadful state, almost as
bad as an Irish farm, he says.”
The look of dismay remained
on Alma’s face.
“Alfred stayed home from
work especially, and everything,”
she said.
But I could see that neither
my father’s absence nor Alfred’s
neglecting his work was her
main concern. She looked as
if something about me caused
her acute apprehension. All sorts
of speculations rushed through
my mind, including an uneasy
one that in her spinsterish acute-
ness she was able to discern an
ebullient masculinity in me which
I’d imagined I’d been able to
keep hidden.
She backed out of the door-
way, inviting my mother in;
then looked at me again with
misgiving and said, “I suppose
he’ll want to come inside?”
I knew very well that she
wanted me to stay outside, but
I could see nothing but solitary
boredom and the possibility of
missing afternoon-tea, which at
Alma’s was reputedly superior.
“I’ll grant her this,” Jier
brother had told us, after a
recital of her queernesses, “she’s
a wonderful cook.”
So I marched in resolutely.
A CLEAN and new-looking
carpet ran the length of the
long hall, and at its sides the
floorboards had been waxed
and polished until they looked
like high-finish furniture. We
turned into the first door on the
left, into a tidy sitting-room, to
see an aged replica of Alma
propped, upright and wilful, in
an armchair. She exclaimed
excitedly at the sight of my
mother, in the manner of the
German-born.
“Dot Alma, she so wonderful
happy when she hear you coming
to live near our place,” she said,
with an articulation so rapid
that I was astonished. “Every
day she say to me, ‘One day more
near the day when my dear
friend come to be at our place.’ ”
She clung to both my mother’s
hands, and rattled away uninter-
ruptedly until Alma intervened
to show Mother to a seat. Alma
didn’t look at all pleased at
having her mother dominating
the scene ; she took Mother to
the other side of the room, and
sat me beside her mother, who
immediately turned the flood of
her conversation on me, watching
me keenly and switching from
one subject to another. She
caught me looking at the clean
fireplace,' reproachfully perhaps,
because it was a very cold day,
and immediately saw what I was
thinking.
“Dot Alma, I say to her, ‘We
should have a fire for your fine
friend,’ but she say, ‘No.’ Dot
Alma, sometimes she got no
sense.”
Alma jerked around from her
lukewarm talk with my mother,
as prickly as could be.
“You know what a mess fires
make —bringing in the wood ;
dropping dirt everywhere; then
the smoke staining the walls and
curtains ; then the fireplace all
blackened; and ashes floating
all about the room when you
clean it.”
She said all this with a
terrible asperity that made my
mother protest that we didn’t
need a fire ; that it was really
quite a warm day. But Alma’s
face remained severe and
clouded, and she continued to
stare at me in an offended
manner.
My mother sent me significant
glances, indicating my feet. It
took me a long time to realise
that Alma was taking exception
to the manner in which my heels
were digging into the carpet. I
hastily placed my feet flat near
my chair and after that, each
time Alma looked at me, I
lifted them into the air to show
her how lightly I was touching
the pile. I could see that she
was far from being amused.
Presently old Mrs. Ventner
suggested afternoon-tea, and
Alma stood up with a despair-
ing glance in my direction, which
suggested that I would be certain
to upset my cup. She began to
bring things in, taking such a
long time over her trips down
the hall, that my mother offered
to help her. But she said “No,
no, no, no,” quite frantically,
recalling to me what her brother
had said about her being a
cranky old maid.
TDUT it was a magnificent after-
noon-tea. When I’d sampled
a piece of everything without.
doing any more damage than
scattering a layer of flaky
pastry over the carpet in front of
me, I readily agreed to my
mother’s suggestion to take a
look around outside.
Alfred had not turned up,
though I’d been waiting for him
to appear in his slippers, so I
said I’d go and tell him the tea
was on.
I didn’t find Alfred. No doubt
he’d seen me arrive and, not
liking boys any more than his
sister did, he’d gone out to do
some work. I speedily became
very bored and allowed my
curiosity to lead me into doing
things which my mother had
often warned me against.
At the back of the house was
that familiar sight, the “old
house” still intact beside the new
one. Down Albury way the “old
house” was always recognised as
the legitimate property of the
young. Even if used in part for
storing things, it was still a play-
ground and skating-rink and
gymnasium. I didn’t hesitate to
open the door and walk in.
The room I entered was a
kitchen, and to my astonishment
it appeared to be still in use
as a kitchen. There was a fire
in the stove, the usual furnish-
ings, and all neat and tidy.
I got out as quickly as I
could, thinking that a married
couple employed on the farm
must be living there. But before
I was out of sight of the place
I heard the screen-door on the
back of the new house slam,
and out came Alma with a teapot
in her hand, too concentrated on
speed to notice me.
Across the veranda she went,
down a set of steps to a covered-
way that led into the kitchen
I’d peered into. In a few
moments she shot out again with
her teapot steaming, across the
covered way, up the steps,
across the veranda and into the
new house again.
With astonishment I realised
that she was using the old
kitchen to spare the new., one,
and that was the reason why
she’d been so vehement in her
refusal to let my mother help her.
This, I decided, would be a
great joke to share with her
nephews. I was so pleased at
being able to avenge myself for
my hostile reception that I was
content to return to the sitting-
room, with the intention of
gloating over Alma’s unaware-
ness of my discovery.
{Continued on next page)


Rooms lined with
CANI-ITE insulating
wallboard are up
to 15° warmer in winter,
15 cooler
in summer
Yl
Another insulation trick with Cane-ite
Lay Cane-ite Ceiling “Batts”
(short size, pre-packaged Cane-
ite lengths) end-to-end between
ceiling joists. Makes room 5-10
degrees cooler in summer,
warmer in winter and absorbs
roof leaks all for approxi-
mately £3 per room.
The only wallboard that
INSULATES as it DECORATES
Manufactured by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division \
Things were still very cool
there. A stiff conversation was
stalking to and fro between
Alma and my mother; and old
Mrs. Ventner • was gasping and
choking and dabbing at her
face with a handkerchief, irritat-
ing her daughter. Mother rose
to say we’d leave, but at the
same moment the old lady
demanded plaintively to be
taken to her room.
Alma tried to put her off by
telling her that Alfred wasn’t
there, but she pointed at me
and said indignantly, “He’s a
big, strong boy. He can help
you.”
I forward, eager to do
the right thing at least once
during our visit. But Alma
looked very reluctant:
“Her room is in such a mess.
No matter how hard I try I can’t
keep it clean.”
The old lady gasped and
heaved in such evident distress
that Alma had to give in. We
half-carried her into a bedroom
next to the sitting-room, and put
her down in an inclined invalid-
chair, where she immediately
showed signs of relief.
For a sick-room it was
remarkably tidy, but Alma
pranced about it, snatching up
offending objects and rearranging
others. The old, lady took hold
of my hand to stop me going
away before she had recovered
her breath, then, waiting until
Alma had rushed onut of the
door with her arms full, she put
her other hand on her chest and
said:
“My heart. One day very
soon I die and go to heaven, I
think.”
She couldn’t speak so rapidly
now, and had to take a rest
after each sentence.
“One day in the night-time
it will come.”
She rolled pathetic old blue
eyes up at me until she got her
breath again.
“I wake up in my bed and I
cannot breathe. Hardly I can
call to Alma to put pillows under
me. One day she will not hear
me, and I will die. Always I
tell her to put her bed in a room
near to me, but she will not
listen.”
She heard Alma returning and
stopped. Then, deceitfully, she
began pointing out the view of
hills which had decided her to
choose this room for herself.
AN the way home Mother
said, “Alma doesn’t know
how to enjoy a good house;
she only makes herself and her
guests uncomfortable. I didn’t
like the visit at all.”
Then she looked at me and
included me in her sympathy:
“You must have had a very
uninteresting afternoon, too.”
“Oh no,” I said, eager to
spring my surprise. “Miss
Ventner uses the kitchen in the
old house. And she wants her
mother to die because she
messes-up her bedroom.”
Mother couldn’t believe it at
first; the daughter of a good
Lutheran family so lacking in
the religious duty she owed to
her mother. But I convinced her.
Then she acted as if the dreadful
suspicion had to be kept from
everyone, including myself.
For a douple of days she did her
work absentedly, with a frown
of concentration on her face ;
then, unable to contain herself
any longer, she confided in me.
“Hard as it is going to be,”
she said, “I must do my
Christian duty. I’ll have to go
and see Alma and make her
realise that she myst take better
care of her mother. If Mrs.
Ventner should die \without me
doing anything, I’d feel that I
was responsible before God.
We’ll go this afternoon.”
We had to wait twice as long'
at the front door thaj time.
“She’s rolling out the hall-
carpet for us,” I told Mother.
“And probably pulling dust-
covers off the furniture in the
sitting-room,” Mother said, with
a tinge of malice.
Then the door opened with a
jerk and Alma stood there as
severe and defensive as if she
knew exactly what was in my
mother’s mind. We were reduced
to a few jerky phrases until we
were seated in the lounge-chairs,
which still looked cleaner than
new. Then Mother leaned
forward and said, rather too
significantly, “We dropped in to
sefc if your mother got over her
nasty turn.”
“Oh, her!” Alma said curtly.
“She’s tough. She’s an old
pioneer’s wife. It will take a lot
to kill her.”
Mother was embarrassed;
then she took a plunge which
must have needed all the courage
she possessed.
“She seemed very ill to me;
and she told Harry that she
expected she’d die soon, because
she won’t be able to make you
hear when she wants you at
night.”
Alma turned on me with an
expression of tremendous scorn.
“So that’s what she was telling
you behind my back, was it?”
She took a deep breath as if
she were going to blast me and
my testimony off the face of the
earth; but whatever devastating
thing she was going to say was
cut short by a loud banging on
the wall and the shrill voice of
the old lady from the next
room:
“Are you talking about me
dying?”
A LMA jumped up with a great
start, and we all followed
her into the bedroom.
“Mother,” Alma was exclaim-
ing indignantly, “whatever do
“Boy, I'm hungry! I could eat a rider , then
chase the horse!”
you think you’re doing? You’ll
knock the plaster off the wall.”
But the mother was equally
indignant.
“I am going to die, I tell you.”
She turned to Mother and me.
“And it will be her fault.”
We swung round, expecting to
see Alma flushing with guilt, but
she finished her anxious inspec-
tion of the wall, rubbing her
fingers lightly over little marks
where the old lady’s stick had hit
it. Then she turned to us.
“She’s been talking about
dying for fifteen years.”
“But you must remember,”
Mother said, in a gentle voice
which sounded ineffectual after
the strident voices of the other
women, “that she is getting older
all the time, and some day soon
she will die.”
“Ha,” Alma retorted
arrogantly, demolishing my
mother. “She’ll never die.”
“I will die,” the old lady
shouted, banging her stick on
the floor. “I tell you 1 will die,
some day soon in the night-
time, because I won’t be able
to make you hear.”-
“I really don’t see,” Mother
said to Alma, a bit more forcibly
this time, “why yoii can’t sleep
in the room next to her.”
“Ha, don’t you?” Alma
replied. “Well, can you tell me
any reason why she shouldn’t
move back to the room next to
me?"
“Little poky room in back of
the house,” Mrs. Ventner
exclaimed indignantly.
“Why should you have your
big room at the front,” Alma
demanded, “and mess-up the
whole house, when I have to do
all the cleaning?” She wheeled
round on Mother. “Can you tell
me that?”
“She’s your mother, and you
should respect her,” Mother
said bravely. “The Bible says
so.”
For a moment .I had an excited
feeling that Alma was going to
say something blasphemous;
but, coming from generations
of awed and unquestioning
devotees, she had to give ground.
“All right, I respect her,”
Alma said, “but if she wants me
to look after her she’ll have to
move next to me.”
From then on it was a dead-
lock ; who was to move next to
whom. Alma was so adamant
that Mother even appealed to
old Mrs. Ventner to move, but
she was just as obstinate.
“It’s my house, what my
husband built for me, and I’m
going to have some comfort in
my old age in it, what he didn’t
get.”
Then she passed-out in one of
her turns. Alma propped her
up with a very cross and
unwilling expression on her face.
“That’s what happens when
(i Continued on page 30)
“GREATER RELIANCE ON PRIVATE
ENTERPRISE NEEDED IN FUTURE”
—Bank Chairman of Directors
“Australia has everything to gain, now, by reversing the
trend of the last few decades and setting out to widen, the scope
of the free market and the opportunities for individual
enterprise based on the incentive of reward,” stated the
Chairman of the National Bank of Australasia, Mr. H. D.
Giddy, at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders last
Wednesday. Continuing, he said:
Direct controls are incompat-
ible with the free market
mechanism. Price control,
which should be correctly called
Price Fixation, capital issues and
profit controls and the like —
and, of course, nationalisation
—strike a death blow at the
dynamic forces of individual
enterprise and independent
competition.
At present, in Western Aus-
tralia, a Bill, if passed by the
Parliament in its present form,
will give to a single Government
official wide and arbitrary
powers to interfere directly
with businesses or with indi-
viduals carrying on business.
Such measures are a. gross
violation of freedom.
The tremendous impact of
Government activity and inter-
vention is frequently not recog-
nised, but the effects are very
great.
In the case of our country
it is both fundamental and prac-
tical for us to ask how far
Government intervention can go
without further weakening, or
perhaps crippling, individual
incentive.
While most will agree that
there are certain services which
cannot easily be provided by
other than public authorities,
probably many could be more
efficiently, more cheaply and
more progressively handled by
private enterprise operating in a
competitive market.
In return for the virtues of a
free market, all members of the
community must be prepared to
accept the risks and the responsi-
bilities entailed. The individual
must give of his best, in work
and ability, in the knowledge
that by so doing he has greater
rewards open to him and the
real value of the rewards going
to others will not be impaired.
Those actually in business in a
free market, whether as indi-
viduals or per medium of
corporate entity, have special
responsibilities toward the com-
munity as a whole in respect of
the privileges enjoyed as a result
of being free and independent.
Vast Scale of Expenditure by
Public Authorities
Mr. Giddy stated, “Public
authority expenditure last
financial year was nearly £l4OO
millions, equal to a little over
32 per cent, of national income.
Of this, almost 5 per cent, was
for defence and approximately
27 per cent, for civil purposes.
In the United Kingdom, public
authority expenditure was
equivalent to the extremely high
proportion of over 39 per cent,
of national income, defence
being equal to nearly 10 per cent,
and civil to about 29 per cent.
By contrast, in the United
States of America last year,
though public authority expendi-
ture equalled approximately
28/29 per cent, of national
income, defence expenditure
was equivalent to 14 per cent,
and civil to only about 15 per
cent. Canada’s public authority
expenditure was also equal to
approximately 28 per cent, of
her national income, with
defence at about 8 per cent, and
civil at about 20 per cent.
The proportions of expendi-
ture for civil purposes in both
U.S.A. and Canada are thus
well below ours, and far below
that for the United Kingdom.
Indeed, leaving defence out of
the discussion, if the United
States and Canadian ratios
applied here, public expenditure
would be lower by around £5OO
millions and £3OO millions per
annum respectively.
The North American Example
Even granting that these com-
parisons are rough, in plain
language they mean that the
American and Canadian free
markets are much wider and
far less obstructed than ours or
the British.
Those countries give full
recognition to the virtues of the
free market and to the incentive
of rewards for individual enter-
prise and effort.
They refuse to become bogged
down by searching, through
Government restriction, for
economic security at any cost.
They also suffer less from
inflation than almost anyone
else, itself a powerful destroyer
of open market conditions.” In
conclusion, the- chairman said,
“There is a vital lesson for us
in this, because the dynamic
quality evident in these two great
North American nations is
exactly what Australia needs
if we are to forge ahead
unhampered.”
Balance Sheet
Assets, at £287,000,000, were
£3,000,000 higher, a rise of
£6,000,000 in deposits, etc.,
being offset by a decrease of
£3,000,000 in the contingent item.
Liquid assets, £10,000,000
higher, improved to 9s. Id. in
the £ of deposits from Bs. 6d. a
year ago.
Net profit increased by nearly
£62,000 and gross earnings by
£738,000, but the latter rise was
offset by an increase of £688,000
in working expenses.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
World’s
Finest
Airliner
Serving
■ &
■ ■ •
Lockheed Super Constellation
across six continents and over the seven seas
The latest in a line of distinguished
Lockheed airliners, the 1049 G version
of the Super Constellation is serving
Australia. Enjoy the quiet comfort
and speed of the world’s most luxurious
airliner. 24 world airlines feature Super
Constellation service over connecting
routes which cross every ocean and
span every continent.
Qantas, Air India International and KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines afford Super Constellation service to
5 Continents from Australia .
COMING !
The new, faster, bigger, longer-range
Lockheed Luxury Liner (Model 1649).
It will make possible NON-STOP
flights both ways between the capitals
of the world.
•>c
"A
LOCKHEED
Luxury
Liner
Lockheed aircraft, California division, burbank, California, u.s, a. / Look to Lockheed for Leadership !
DRIVEN POTTY
By MAUREEN LUSON
a W77E simply must have
\V / one,” declared Eunice,
VV “Absolutely Every-
body has.”
Joe reluctantly left the body
dangling over "the bath-tub, and
shut the book ; he had learned
by bitter experience the import-
ance of Absolutely Everybody.
Before he married his pretty
and charming wife, Joe had
thought of Everybody as being
a nice chap, rather like himself,
who enjoyed his golf and fishing,
grumbled about taxes over a
beer or two, and generally lived
an independent sort of life.
Now he had come to realise
that Everybody was, in fact,
Nobody. Your clothes, conver-
sation, taste rn books, movies,
and food, the color of your
carpets and your wife’s lipstick,
depended upon the dictates of
Absolutely Everybody. This all-
powerful influence had long
been personified in Joe’s mind as
one of those pearl-sprouting
women with a cultured voice
who, each time you visited her
home, screamed: “My dear, you
must admire our latest little
toy!”
The little tpy might turn out to
be a deep-freeze, or a two-toned
American car reminiscent of a
crouching dinosaur with bared
teeth. Absolutely Everybody,
who \yas often an aunt or cousin
of Eunice’s, would relate how
completely squalid existence
without it had been. And all the
way home, Eunice would tell
Joe how, naturally, she didn’t
aspire to darling Thelma’s
standards, but she did feel they
should think about getting a new
refrigerator, or a more modern
type of car.
Eunice’s kitchen was full of
electrical appliances that did
everything to food except eat
it; they were never used, and
Joe’s relatives, who were No-
body, said they were a waste of
money.
Meenyong (French for “Dar-
ling”), the ill-tempered poodle
bitch, and Bung-Ho (Chinese
according to Eunice), the minia-
ture Pekinese, were also hang-
overs from Absolutely Every-
body’s crazes for useless and
expensive dogs.
TT was understandable, there-
fore, that Joe’s voice was
nervous when he asked what
Absolutely Everybody had this
time.
“I do wish you’d listen, darling.
I told you—an Indoor Garden-
area. Of course,’ added Eunice
accusingly, “as we haven t got a
patio, or even a sunroom, we
couldn't attempt anything
ambitious.”
“No,” said Joe gladly,
“But I do think a few potted
plants would do something need-
ful to this room, said Eunice
with the glassy, unseeing gaze
that boded acute concentration,
“Lovely,” said Joe. He
thought some nice scarlet gera-
niums would be cheerful about
the place ; much pleasanter than
the flower-arrangements of three
bulrushes and a tigerlily lavoied
by Eunice.
“I’ve decided on philodendron,
saintpaulia, beloperone and
chlorophytum to start with,”
said Eunice. “Oh, and bil-
bergia.”
“Very good selection,” said
joe, who had never heard of any
of them. “NVhat about an aspi-
distra?” he ventured,
“No, I prefer fatshedera lizei.
Now, sweetie, if you’ll help me
move the bookcases away from
the window, I can measure the
size of the stand, and you can
start on it right away.”
“Stand?”
Joe’s heart sank. He was an
unhandyman.
“We have to have a stand.
It’ll be quite a simple job. You
use odd bits of wood from any-
where. Three shelves, one
behind the other, with gaps in
between,” explained Eunice, with
typical clarity.
She laid a delicate hand on
one of the bookcases.
Joe removed eight shelf-loads
of books, then manhandled the
two heavy myrtle bookcases to
the other side of the room, while
Eunice stood with her left hand
gripping her chin, and her right
describing vague parabolas in
the air.
Then she said she thought
after all the bookcases would
balance better on either side of
the door into the dining-room.
Joe tumbled the books back
on to the floor, dragged the book-
cases to their new positions, and
had just carried the weightiest
lot of books across, when Eunice
said perhaps the bookcases did
flow more into the decor against
the wall opposite the window.
Turning quickly, Joe dropped
most of the books on his feet.
But when he had replaced the
bookcases against the wall, and
the books on the shelves, Eunice
kissed him, and said that was
wonderful, and now he could go
and look for odd pieces of wood.
She was a little upset when Joe
pointed out that the only odd
pieces of wood he had, apart
from kindling, were the old
kitchen fly-wire door, and a
broken broom-handle; and that
he was totally'incapable of trans-
forming these into the stiles,
cross-rails, end-rails, bearers,
muntins and braces that would
be required for a plant-stand.
THREE weeks it took, to get
the wood cut and planed,
and another two weekends bereft
of golf or fishing before Joe
finished a rickety contraption
that, he had to admit to himself,
didn’t look at all the sort of
stand that would be tolerated by
Absolutely Everybody.
When he brought it into the
living-room, Eunice observed it
from all angles for several
minutes; then she said it was
perfectly beautiful, and Joe was
the cleverest, but Absolutely
Everybody had those fascinating
wrought-iron stands with drip-
trays, and didn’t Joe think one
like that would add tone to the
room?
Joe did think a wrought-iron
stand would add tone to the
room; he carried the wooden
one baek to the garage, where
Eunice said it would be so useful
to put tins and things on.
Meanwhile the plants had
steadily accumulated ; they dis-
played no flowers, only leaves
from pea- to olive-green, some
drooping wearily, some pug-
naciously erect; and they were
ranked on every window-sill, on
the mantelpiece, and on the
coffee-table. One day Meenyong
bit Bung-Ho, and Bung-Ho
retaliated, and the flailing bundle
of tails, paWs and teeth rolled
under the coffee-table, elevated
it, and sent all the saintpaulias
glissading on to the off-white
carpet.
Eunice ; said that the wogsies
were norty-porty, and it was
lucky they forecast a fine week-
end, because on Saturday she
and Joe could drive out to some
nurseries and pick up some nicer
saintpaulias; and the carpet
needed shampooing anyway, so
Joe could do it in the backyard
on Sunday.
That was another weekend
ruined.
The next weekend Eunice
Wanted the wrought-iron wall-
brackets fixed; these curlicues,
Joe learnt, were to hold zebrinas
to highlight the dull side-window.
Eunice had marked the sites
with pencil.
NO sooner had Joe got the
plugs in and swept up the
plaster and brick-dust, wrestled
with the overlarge screws, and
adjusted the brackets, than
Eunice went glassy - eyed,
frowned, and said they were
perfect, but could Petsie possibly
move them all two-and-a-half
inches higher, and half-an-inch
to the left?
She arranged the trails of
zebrina to cover the damage to
the walls.
“Don’t fuss, darling,” she told
Joe. “Nobody will notice.”
Joe’s relatives, who were
Nobody, were very expert
handymen.
The big wrought-iron plant-
stand was most attractive; the
only drawback Was that none of
the plant-pots fitted the holders.
Eunice said it didn’t matter at
all, because Absolutely Every-
body had those dinky imported
hand-painted flower-pots, and
Joe could bring some from the
city—they might as well have
enough for all the plants while
they were about it —and Joe
could do the repotting on
Saturday and Sunday.
The Indoor Garden-area,
thought Joe unhappily, kept him
at home more weekends than
the outdoor one; he wondered
ignobly if that had been Abso-
lutely Everybody’s bright idea.
WINTER closed-in with damp
chilliness that penetrated
down chimneys and under
doors ; Eunice kept the living-
room sunblinds partially down,
in case there should be any sun ;
she said that direct sun through
glass was very bad for her plants.
“What about a fire, then?”
Joe asked, shivering.
“Why, Jo-ey! That would
kill them! Plants mustn’t be
kept in heated rooms!”
They sat, uncomfortably, in
the dining-room, with the one-
bar electric-fire.
In spite of this self-sacrifice,
o Continued on next page)
THE MERRY-GO-ROUND
My daughter on the merry-go-round
laughed because she rode alone
to see the mountain’s hood of snow,
the city strewn with marionettes,
the wave dissolve without a sound
fan below her wooden roan.
As, if it were a spike of glass
and leaf-of-gold—light and air—
she gripped a rod of graven brass,
and “Now !” she cried because she, too,
heard what birds and clouds could hear
when the dun sirocco blew
in vain against great Pegasus.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton
Manager for Australia.
. • ."v '
m
& ,
ms
<x '
m
i
e^n
pUJfi ' /
—a series of contributions on questions of the
hour by leading international aviation personalities.
s.
Chief Engineer of British European Airways
makes this contribution on . . .
SHENSTONE
BEVERLEY
Keeping an airline airborne
If aeroplanes were perfect and couldn’t go
wrong, airline chief engineers would not be
necessary. Reality is not like that. B.EA.’s
100-odd aircraft are kept flying by hard work
on the part of the engineers, and sometimes
even the 'best planning and the hardest work
cannot avoid the unforeseeable that lurks
in any mechanical contrivance.
’The facts are roughly these : there are
over 3,000 men and women working in
B.E.A.’s engineering base, and at outstations
from Stornoway to Istanbul, involved in
planning and working toward safe, sure and
punctual air services for the public. In terms
of money it costs B.E.A. about £4,000,000 a
year to keep these 100 aircraft flying. That is
a lot of money and it can only be reduced
by concentrated development over many
years toward better aircraft and improved
techniques.
That leads to pioneering and B.E.A. has
invited headaches by introducing an entirely
new kind of engine—the Rolls-Royce Dart
in the Vickers-Armstrongs Viscount. It has
no military history and is still the only pro-
peller-turbine in service. But it is very
satisfactory, and although we still have some
piston engines in service, I shall be glad when
I have to deal with nothing but turbines—
the Dart now, later the Tyne, and whatever
comes after.
AVIATION
SERVICE
serves aviation well
The BP Aviation Service
is operated in Australia by
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LIMITED
(in association with
The British Petroleum Company Limited) 4/56
A Christmos-gift to
Fascinate-
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING"
A " Bulletin " Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia ioo years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography in the short space of three years
since it was first published in book-form.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon receipt
of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
the plants didn’t appear to thrive.
Eunice tended them lovingly,
sponging their leaves with damp
cloths, spraying them with insec-
ticides, feeding them liquid-
manure, testing their water with
a thermometer to make sure it
was room-temperature. All that
happened was that the fatsjiedera
dropped most of its leaves, and
the rex begonia developed evil
splodges of mould.
Eunice decided they were all
starved, and, the next Saturday,
she made Joe drive out to the
hills for some sacks of leaf-
mould, while on Sunday he
mixed compost under her direc-
tions, and then repotted all the
plants again.
“My plants are the nicest
hobby I’ve ever had,” Joe heard
her telling Absolutely Everybody
over the telephone. “So reward-
ing.”
Winter went on, and it went on
raining.
There were two wet weekends
in succession.
One evening, as they sat over
the one-bar fire in the dining-
room, Eunice said: “Of course,
sweetie, you don’t feel the cold
like I do.” Then she sighed:
“Absolutely Everybody’s gone
north.”
These apparently innocent
statements were a baited hook
for Joe ;he took it: “Why don’t
you go up and stay with those
cousins of yours? I can manage
quite well by myself for a fort-
night.”
She opened horrified eyes:
“Why, Jo-ey! I couldn’t leave
you. And,you couldn’t manage.
What about the wogsies? And
the plants?”
“The dogs can go to a kennel.
And what’s difficult about water-
ing a few plants?”
She hung over the arm of his
chair: “All right, Petsie. If you
insist. I’ll phone them tonight.
And I’ve written down all about
the plants for you.” The two
large sheets of instructions in
Eunice’s most legible hand-
writing rather belied the casual-
ness of her approach.
TOE did manage quite well for
J the first week.
Early on the Saturday morn-
ing, he washed up five days’
dishes, pushed the vacuum-
cleaner round the kitchen-floor,
and blew the dust off all the
clocks.
Therd remained only to water
forty-one pots of plants, feed,
spray, and sponge them. Joe
brought in the wheelbarrow, and
took the pots out to the back
veranda in relays; he arranged
them well on the edge to be
clear of the eaves, looked at the
sky, grinned, and put his fishing-
tackle in the car.
But the small bank of cloud
that had portended a gentle, pot-
watering shower bellied up into
threatening black and purple
bundles before mid-afternoon ;
Joe, far out on the bay' in his
small boat, cocked h worried eye,
pulled in his lines, and started
the engine.
The wind backed, and a
vicious south-westerly lashed-in
with sheets of icy rain. Joe gave
up all hope of getting back to
his starting-point, and ran before
the racing tide to the nearest
beach;
By the time a series of
meandering buses had carried
him back to where his car was
parked, and he had driven to
pick up his stranded boat, and
then home across the city, it was
pitch-dark, and the wind still
spat rain against the windscreen.
It wasn’t until he had garaged
the car that he remembered the
plants. And that the back
veranda faced due south-west,
and abutted on a concrete path.
His torch showed two sur-
vivors, both species of ivy ; the
rest were only snapped stems and
draggled leaves and broken
shards protruding from lumps
of sludgy compost.
jC VERY lunch-hour during the
following week, Joe trudged
from flower-shop to flower-shop,
from garden - department to
garden-department.
As he didn’t know chloro-
phytum from bilbergia, he hadn’t
a hope of replacing the collec-
tion exactly, but by Friday he
had assembled thirty-nine dinky,
imported, and now very scarce
pots, and thirty-nine plants with
pea- to olive-green leaves.
The repotting took him till
midnight on Friday, and the
whole of Saturday morning ; in
the afternoon, he collected Meen-
yong and Bung-Ho from the
kennels, then went to the airport
to meet Eunice.
Eunice said she’d had a mar*
vellous time, and seen Absolutely
Everybody; t she spent the
greater part of the journey home
asking the wogsies how much
they’d missed their kissy-missis.
At home, she flew, like a
pigeon to its loft, into the living-
-room. Joe braced himself to
explain just why all the plants
had been left out in the worst
•gale since 1890-something, and
to beg for approbation of his
replacements.
T 7 UNICE stared, stepped back-
-®-/ wards, and gripped her chin.
Then, still glassy-eyed, she
retreated further, pursing her
lips. By the mantelpiece she
stopped, stared unseeingly at
the mirror, and ran a wetted
finger along her eyebrows.
Joe quailed as she drew a long
breath.
“I’ve been thinking,” said
Eunice.
She swung round arid poured
charm all over him:
“Those old plants—they don’t
really do much for the room, do
they, sweetie? Now, an
aquarium let into the wall—that
would be dramatic. With lit-up
fishes and things swimming.
And, of course, Absolutely
Everybody’s got them. If you
could just help me move the
plant-stand away, 1 could see
just how much wall-space
there is. And the plants would
make the back veranda quite
interesting.”
Joe said: “They would,
wouldn’t they?”
Nobody understood how he
felt. Absolutely Nobody.
LIGHT ON A LIGHT MATTER
If you see what light can bring
Then you know what life must mean.
I will tell you, I will sing
All the things that / have seen.
Dew that fell at highest noon,
Girls that loved to love by day,
Magpies .that outsang the moon,
Nights that turned the night away.
Miracles are common things
Frequent as our daily breath
Glancing as the poet sings
And our one escape from death.
Bright and dark the dancing tree,
Magic from the living sun ;
Dark and bright has you and me
Starred forever in its run.
Longer than a formal prayer,
Shorter than the act of love,
'Brilliant through the dancing air
Shines the singing fact of love :
Sunlight on a stone takes breath,
Green leaf answers back the gold.
Naming neither life nor death
Light creates our only world.
N.S.W.
RAY MATHEW.


Divorce Notice
TO .TAMES BATTLE Respondent late of
38 Bargehouse Road North Woolw'ch
London England.—A Petition for Divorce
has been filed against you Upon applica-
tion by letter to The Registrar Divorce
Registry Somerset House Strand London
England a copy of the Petition, will be
sent If within 69 days hereafter no appli-
cation lias been made nor appearance
entered the Court may hear the Petition
and pronounce judgment.—B. LONG,
Registrar.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Picturesque Islands Identity
The Baron of Maron
By K. A. SAXBY
IF Heinrich Rudolph Wahlen
was not in actual fact a
titled baron of the Kaiser’s
German Empire, as is some-
times claimed, then he certainly
ought to have been.
Admittedly, his domain was
mostly ocean; but his income,
in the palmy pre-1914 days, made
that of many & European prince-
ling seem like an old-age pension.
And,* unlike most of the
princelings, he created his own
barony and built his own castle.
Away out in the Pacific, to the
west and north-west of Manus
Island, is a wide-flung scattering
of tiny islets. They are the
Hermit, Anchorite, and Ninigo
groups, and the outlying islands
of Manu, Maty and Aua
The nearest-in ones, the
Hermits, are about 90 miles
direct from the nearest point of
Manus, and the farthest-out,
Maty and Aua, are over 200,
With the exception of some ol
the Hermits, they are all flat,
low coral atolls, capable of grow-
ing little else but jungle and
coconuts.
The foundation of Wahlen’s
fortune was laid when he cleared
the jungle from many of the
islets and replaced it with coco-
nut-palms. He made his head-
quarters at the Hermits, where a
group of green, bush-clad vol-
canic hills rises out of a reef-girt
lagoon. There, on the crest of
the 360 ft.-high island of Maron,
he began, in 1903, to build his
castle.
Wahlen, a Prussian, was born
m the 1870’s, only a few years
after the triumphant proclama-
tion of the German Empire at
Versailles. He grew up to regard
the Kaiser as little less than a
god and Bismarck as his high-
priest. He came out to German
New Guinea in his early twenties,
and his natural organising
abilities, good connections, and
his strongly-held conviction of
white, especially Prussian,
supremacy secured him rapid
promotion in the big planting
and trading firm of Hernsheims.
Before long he was their
inspector.
The story goes that around
1898 he was sent by Hern-
sheims to look over the planting
and trading possibilities of the
Western Islands, as they are
collectively called, with a view
to commencing operations there.
Wahlen liked very much what
he saw, especially the 150,000
“kanaka” (native-owned) palms
on Maty and Aua, and the rich
harvest of trochus- and green-
snail-shell to be gathered from
the reefs.
He figured that cheaply-
purchased native copra and
marine shell could bring in
necessary finance while regular
plantations were being estab-
lished. But he had no intention
that Hernsheims* should benefit
by his ideas. Keeping his plans
to himself, he bluffed his firm
into dropping theirs by stressing
the unhealthy climate of the
atolls.
In the days when all New
Guinea was regarded as a white-
man’s grave, the Western
Islands probably had more
mosquitoes and malaria than
most places. That, together with
the local shortage of labor,
stopped the company, but it
didn’t stop Wahlen. By the dawn
of the new century,- he was ready
to launch out for himself and
go into business as the uncrowned
king of the Western Islands.
His plans were successful. He
acquired and planted a large
part of the Hermits, most of the
Ninigos and Anchorites, and
half each of Maty and Aua. By
1914, copra from half-a-million
palms and marine shell from
hundreds of miles of reef were
netting him more than £lOO,OOO
a year.
His castle at Maron was a two-
storied mansion, electrically-lit,
many-roomed, wide-verandaed,
porticoed and balustraded, and
crowned with a tower and flag-
staff from which fluttered the
Imperial German flag. It was
set in lawns and courts planted
with imported English grass, and
was staffed with a small army of
native servants.
Imported cattle and deer
roamed the park. Many kinds
Who’s this on horseback? And dressed for the part, too! And not a bad sort
of mount, either, by the same token. Well, it’s not the Baron. The picture is from
“Low’s Autobiography,” which vouches for it that this is David Low, in his
Australian days, sampling the wide open spaces. The dressing for the part could
have been characteristic of him then. “The Bulletin” etcher who brought the block
down last week was here as a boy in Low’s day, and says he remembers Dave as
an always-neat little chap (height, like age, is relative); very dapper in a hard-hitter,
but (he emphasised) no way conceited. He says that, coming into the office, Low
always took a cloth, put right foot, left foot on table and gave his boots a shine
(could have been present par.-writer’s table; it’s a bit dusty still). So we glimpse
Low as another saw him then, adding, for good measure, that he was “a bonzer
little bloke.” How Low then saw, and now sees, himself is fully and frankly
recorded in “Low’s Autobiography,” sent from London to “The Bulletin” to use
as a serial, because it was in “The Bulletin” that Low did all his Australian
caricaturing and caricature-cartooning. The serial, abundantly illustrated, begins
in next week’s “Bulletin” Christmas Number (December 12). It is a picturesque
life-story crowded with the great personalities of the world.
°f tropical fruit-trees and brilliant
topical flowers flourished in
the orchard and garden. Roads
and driveways were laid-down
ior the smart ? arria S e drawn by
P aired Australian horses.
Wahlen’s plantations became
regular ports-of-call on the main
German shipping-line, Hong
Kong to Rabaul. Many other
overseas vessels, often carrying
distinguished passengers, also
called-in.
Wahlen’s hospitality* at Maron
became legendary. There is no
direct evidence to support the
story that unattached male guests
staying overnight were supplied
with shapely Samoan or Maty
Island girls to comfort their
beds, but if not the women, then
certainly the wine, and song were
turned on.
The Kaiser’s health was drunk,
or rather drowned, in cham-
pagne. Liquor flowed in
cascades. Dinners were like
banquets, with anything up to a
dozen courses, and guests wore
full tropical evening-gear, com-
plete with cummerbund and
dinner-jacket.
Civilisation certainly reached
amazing heights on this steaming
speck of a Pacific island
hundreds of miles from any-
where.
The “king” didn’t neglect his
native subjects, over whom he
had all but life-and-death power.
He realised from the start that
they were too few and debili-
tated to work all his plantations,
and imported indentured New
Guinea laborers, whom he ruled
with a rod of iron. But he
watched over the native islanders
with a paternal solicitude.
a hundred years ago, there
were several thousand people in
the Western Islands. European
diseases introduced by sailors
and beachcombers decimated
them. When Wahlen began
operations about 1900 there
were only about 1500 left, two-
thirds of them on Maty and
Aua.
Unlike the black “fuzzy-
wuzzy” New Guinea natives,
these islanders were yellowish-
brown Micronesians, probably a
by-blow from the Carolines, 900
miles northward.
Wahlen did his best to
revitalise the race and bump-up
the birthrate by importing husky
Solomon Islands men and paying
baby-bonuses to the women, but
in this, at least, he failed. In 1950,
the first post-war census revealed
only 30 natives at the Hermits,
280 in the Ninigos, and 500 on
Maty and Aua —little more than
800 all told.
Fortunately, today they seem
to be maintaining their numbers.
Crossbreeding with outside
natives has darkened the Ninigo
folk, but out on Maty and Aua
the strain is still fairly pure.
These two isles are the home
of the free-loving, light-skinned,
long-tressed maidens who so
charmed the hearts of many
European visitors, from aristo-
cratic anthropologist Pitt-Rivers
to simple German sailors like
Charlie Matthies.
There is no record of what
effect they had on Wahlen him-
self. Like all South Seas beauties,
their charms have lost nothing
at all in the telling, but they
certainly are a considerable im-
provement on the average New
Guinea “mary.” Post-war
missionary influence seems to
have put an end to the era of
free love.
This was the “kingdom” that
Wahlen lost when the German
Empire crashed at the end of
World War I. His plantations
were expropriated, and later
sold separately to Australian
soldier-settlers,
The establishment at Maron,
supported by nine plantations in
Wahlen’s time, could not be
adequately maintained on the
income from only one. This
became more than ever true
when copra-prices toppled in
1930. The big house fell into
neglect and decay, and today
even a sizeable fortune could
not restdre it to its former glory.
Jungle has claimed much of
the park and part of the planta-
tion, also. The descendants of
the cattle and the deer run wild
in the bush. The banquets and
parties are buried in the past.
Overseas liners no longer call at
Maron. The occasional visit of a
small copra-coaster or Admini-
stration trawler from Manus is
a red-letter day.
Six of the Western Islands
plantations are still being worked
at intermittent half-pressure.
Aged, and in many cases over-
grown, the palms are no longer
capable of anything like their
former output. Turnover of
European staff is high—even in
these days of two-way radio, life
out on those equatorial sand-
banks can be grimly monotonous
and deathly lonely, to say noth-
ing of year-round steaming heat
by day and howling swarms of
mosquitoes by night.
Only one manager since World
War II has dared to take his
wife out there to live—she left
after a few weeks. Health is a
serious consideration the
nearest hospitals are 150 miles
away over open ocean.
The islands are not popular
with the New Guinea labor
Trochus and greensnail were
fished-out by Jap poachers
between the wars (they are
coming back again now). Only
high prices for copra and
marine shell are keeping the
islands in business.
Heinrich Rudolph Wahlen
himself, now over 80, is still alive
and active in Hamburg. He is
associated with an international
group of bankers and financiers
which has laid claim to mineral
rights over 5000 square-miles of
mainland New Guinea, on the
ground of a German Govern-
ment grant in 1914.
It is, as befits him, a big claim,
but it will fail. That country
includes, among other things,
Morobe goldfields, and Wahlen
and Co. may just as well lay
claim to Buckingham Palace for
all the prospects of success they
have.
It would maybe have been
more to the point if he had
tendered for his old plantations
when they were advertised a few
years after the Japs surrendered.
He might have really been able
to do something about restoring
his fortunes that way.


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD,
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 7820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.134.1
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£200,000,000
Offices :
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH and
LAUNCESTON
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
At the Games
“Jasby’s” report on watching
some highlights:
First, a double-highlight —the
Vladimir Kuts double. Kuts
doesn’t look like a runner. He
hasn’t the long legs of Landy,
Pirie or Lawrence. He’s stockily
built, but with magnificent arms,
chest and shoulders.
His secret seems to be power
and endurance rather than
speed. Where the average
runner gives the impression of a
pair of fast-moving legs carry-
ing a body round the course,
with Kuts the feeling is that the
powerful body is doing the work
and in some way is providing the
propelling power that drives the
legs on to victory.
But the head works, too. In
the 10,000-metre race, when
Pirie was shadowing him stride
for stride over the first few laps,
many people thought the
Englishman was making the
Russian run his race for him.
Pirie may have thought so,
too, at first —but not for long.
He stuck close behind the leader,
matching his changes of pace,
speeding-up when Kuts speeded,
and declining to pass him when
he slackened. Then Kuts seemed
to move aside purposely, and
Pirie found himself slipping
through to the lead. Fifty yards
further on the Russian passed
him again and went on to widen
the gap beyond hope of Pirie
ever closing it.
Then for lap after lap the
running-machine surged around
the ground, wildly cheered over
the la§t two laps by a crowd he
had completely conquered. After
breaking the tape he loped
around for a “Victory” lap,
waving to the crowd and openly
exultant at his win, to receive an
ovation he could hardly have
hoped to better in Moscow.
In the 5000-metres it was a
similar story, except that not
one Englishman but three—
Pirie, Ibbotson and Chataway—
were dogging Kuts’s heels.
Whether the trio were work-
ing to a plan to counter the
champion’s wearing-down varia-
tions of pace is immaterial. With
three laps to go Kuts broke right
away from them, clapped-on an
amazing pace and went after
Pirie’s world record (13min.
36.85e9.). He didn’t get it, but
his 13min. 39.65ec. left the
Olympic record far behind.
Victory lap, triumphant grin
and ground-shaking ovation as
before!
.If Kuts was an exultant
winner, the happiest gold-
medallist of the Games, judged
on behavior, was New Zealander
Read, first home in the 50-
kilometre walk.
Grinning broadly when he
entered the ground for the last
lap, comfortingly aware that his
nearest rival was two minutes
behind him, he grinned his way
round the ground to the
finishing-line.
Then, when there was no
longer any necessity to keep-up
the eccentric gait that makes
competitive walking a little
difficult to take seriously, he
allowed his pleasure to suffuse
his whole body, right to his toes
and fingertips. He waved his
hands, danced, skipped, trotted
and cavorted round the arena
on a “Victory” lap, shaking
hands here and there en route ;
was hugged by a compatriot
who jumped the fence; paused
for photographers, official and
forbidden —all the while his face
beaming with pleasure and
pride.
He had walked further in the
preceding four-and-a-half hours
than most of the 90,000
spectators had walked in the
previous fortnight.
Tensest quarter-hour of the
Games came in the final act of
the high-jump, with Queens-
lander “Chilla” Porter the only
remaining challenger to world-
champion C. Dumas.
It was 7.30 p.m. and the two
men had been in the arena for
five hours continuously, on top
of two hours before lunch. Dusk
was closing-in, the lights were on
in the stands, from which it was
difficult to pick-out the black-
and-white bar fin. short of 7ft.
The two each took seven or
eight minutes to prepare for a
jump. Both failed twice at
6ft. Ilf in. Dumas would sit
down, chat a while, walk up and
look at the bar, feel the run-up,
caress the soil.
Then he’d stroll around, do
a few bends and suddenly streak
off downfield on a 100 yd. sprint;
jog back, take off his track-suit,
measure his run, tighten or
loosen his shoelaces; trot
around some more. Then, finally
deciding that the right moment
had arrived, he would move to
his- previously-marked spot,
pause a moment and begin his
run to the bar.
Porter’s tactics were similar,
but even more prolonged.
Instead of the sprint, he sub-
stituted periods of sitting on the
ground, communing with him-
self. The donning and doffing
of track-suit, lacing and unlacing
of shoes, the measuring, the
feeling, the little jog-trots and
all the rest of it were all there.
This business is not mere
showmanship or temperament.
It’s the jumper’s way of pre-
paring his mind and spirit for
the attempt. His body, thanks
to training ancj practice, is ready,
but his nerves and thoughts must
be brought under control.
Unless at the moment he
begins his run he can bring him-
self to believe, to know that he
can . clear that bar, he may just
as well run underneath it. When
that is said, all’s said.
In his third attempt at 6ft.
ll|in. Dumas had the
knowledge that in his own
country he had already cleared
more than that height. Porter,
at inches beyond his previous
best, was in unknown territory.
The bar shivered as Dumas
soared over it victoriously;
Porter’s supreme effort brought
it down into the pit as he rose
to his feet to congratulate the
winner.
A member of The Bulletin
publishing department, who was
there as a paying spectator,
adds a note on the same high-
jump: “The high-jump finished
in the dark, but how the Yank
Dumas can jump! He’s a wizard.
Only eight steps and, relaxed as
a wet rag, over he goes.”
Glamor-girl of the discus-
throwers was not Nina of the
Hats, nor even the winner
Fikotova of Czechoslovakia, but
American negress Earlene Brown,
reputedly 19 years of age and
looking as if she weighs a stone
for every year of it.
With gleaming ebony skin, big
spectacles and a beaming
mammy-like smile, she captured
the crowd every time she took
up her stance. But glamor isn’t
everything in , discus-throwing ;
neither is weight. The Brown
girl finished fourth.
Glamor and championship-
material were combined in the
’Polish girl broad-jumper,
E. Krzesinska, holder of the
world-record (20ft. 9iin.).
A tall, slender schoolgirl, with
a golden plait hanging down her
back, she ran towards the mark
with an easy stride, leaped per-
fectly in what was obviously the
best effort of the series, then
put on her track-suit and sat.
down to wait for the
measurement.
It soon came —20ft. 9fin. —
equal to her own world-record
set in Budapest last August.
The girl clapped her hands
together in joy, stood up and
danced a few little skips, and
then knelt down at the feet of a
team-mate, hugging her round
the legs. The other lass
responded by rolling her over
like a young puppy. A charm-
ing, unaffected scene, far
removed from the atmosphere
of, say, Melbourne football
finals!
* * *
Australia’s first gold-medal
came on the fourth day of the
Games, Monday, November 26'.'
This was the women’s 100-metres,
with the blonde Sydney girl Betty
Cuthbert following in Marjorie
Jackson’s 1952 flying footsteps. Her
time, too (11.55ec.), was the same
as Marge’s.- In further identity with
the 1952 race, third-place also went
to Australia —at Helsinki Shirley
Strickland, in Melbourne Marlene
Matthews. Betty Cuthbert later
made .it a double by winning the
200-melres,_ with Marlene Matthews
again in third-place; both times, toq,
the German Christa Stubnick came
second.
Besides the women’s 100-
metres, five other gold-medals
were decided on the fourth day,
and records were set each time.
Two of the three athletic events
went to U.S.A., the other to
Norway, and U.S.A. and Russia
each won a weightlifting division.
Tom Courtney, of America, won
the 800-metres in lmin. 47.75ec. —
I.ssec. better than American Mai
Whitfield’s time in winning in both
1948 and 1952.
The pole-vault was won by the
“Vaulting Parson,” Rev. Bob
Richards, with a vault of 14ft. 1 Hin.,
a fraction better than the 14ft. lliin.
with which he won in 1952.
The javelin was won by Norwegian
E. Danielsen, with a throw of 281 ft.
2j-in., easily beating American C. C.
Young’s 1952 distance (242 ft. Ofin.);
it was also a new world-record. Also,
it was Norway’s first gold-medal in
a track-and-field event since 1920.
Tommy Kono toppled two world
and four Olympic records in winning
the light-heavyweight weightlifting;
while the Russian Voroviev set
world and Olympic records in win-
ning the middle-heavyweight division.
On the fifth day American
sprinter Bob Morrow won his
second gold-medal, in the 200-
metres ; two other Americans
filled the places.
Morrow’s time, 20.65ec., beat Jesse
Owens’S 1936 Olympic record of
20.75ec., and Morrow became' the
first man since Owens to win the
Olympic sprint-double.
In the discus U.S.A. also filled the
first three places; A. Oerter, the
winner, with a 184 ft. throw,
set a new Olympic record. F.
Gordien, who came second, still has
his world-record (194 ft. 6in.).
The hop, step and jump was won
by world-record holder and 1952
Olympic winner Ferreira da Silva, with
an Olympic-record jump of 53ft. 7|in.
He gave Brazil its first 1956 go'ld-
medal. In second place was one of
Iceland’s two representatives at the
Games, V. Eirnarsson.
The heavyweight weightlifting
division was won by American Paul.
Anderson, who broke Olympic jerk
and total records.
In the rowing and sculling U.S.A.
won the eights, Italy the four-oars-
with-cox, Canada four-oars-without-
cox, U.S.A. the pair-oars both with
and without cox, and Russia the
single- and double-sculls.
The pentathlon was also decided,
being won by the 1952 winner, Lars
Hall of Sweden. Sweden, incidentally,
has won the pentathlon at every
Games since 1912, bar 1936, when
Germany won. America finished
second to Russia in the feams event.
Fencer Christian d’Oriola, of
France, winner also in 1952, won the
individual foils.
Apropos the recording (B.
28/11/’56) of Australia’s winning its,
first-ever hockey-game at an Olympics
2-0, let it likewise be noted that Aus-
tralia’s Soccer-team, which was in the
Games for the first time, also began
with, at Japan’s expense, a 2-0 win.
Both Soccer and hockey teams were
eliminated in the quarter-finals.
Highlight of the sixth day, from
Australia’s point of view, was
Shirley Strickland’s win in the
80-metres hurdles Australia’s
second gold-medal.
The previous day, in a heat and a
semi-final, she’d clipped O.lsec. off the
Olympic record (new time, 10.8 sec.);
in the final she set a new world-
record, 10.7 sec. Australia’s Norma
Austin, of S.A., came third. Shirley
Strickland thus became the first
woman to win the same track-event
in two successive Games.
Other gold-medals on the sixth day
(last Wednesday), beside the 5000-
metres and the women’s 80-metres
hurdles, were the shot-put, won (as
could have been safely bet on months
ago) try Parry O’Brien of U.S.A. —
Olympic-record throw of 60ft. llin.;
the 110-metres hurdles, won by
Calhoun, of U.S.A., with two other
Americans in the places (Olympic-
record, 13.55ec.); the 20-kilometres
walk, won by L. Spirine of Russia
(first time this event has been held);
and the women’s javelin-throw, won
by I. laounzem, of Russia, with an
Olympic-record of 176 ft. Bin. (In
fourth place came the 1952 winner,
Zatopek's wife.)
On the seventh day three gold-
medals were won.
Chris Brasher won the 300-metre
steeplechase, in Olympic-record time
of Bmin. 41.25ec., to give Britain its
first track-and-field gold-medal since
it won two events in 1936. Brasher
was at first disqualified, but the
Hungarian Rozsnyoi and Norwegian
Larsen, who filled the places, denied
that he caused any interference.
Yet another gold-medal went to
America when Charles Jenkins won
the 400-metres in 46.75ec. Australia’s
Kevan Gosper failed to qualify for
the final, though his time in his semi-
final (46.25ec.) was the fastest ever
by an Australian —faster, too, than
Jenkins’s final-winning time.
In the fencing Italy won the epee-
team gold-medal, as it had done in
1952. Hungary was runner-up.
This was the first night of the
swimming, with the Australian
swimmers dominating the heats
of the 100-metres freestyle, both
men and women.
The eighth day (last Friday) saw
Betty Cuthbert’s second gold-
medal, in the 200-metres, and
the remarkable effort of the
three sprint-swimmers, Henricks,
Devitt and Chapman, in filling
the three places in the 100-
metres freestyle, the first
swimming gold-medal decided.
Henricks’s 55.45ec. easily beat the
Olympic record of 57.15ec., set by
Scholes of U.S.A. in 1952. Devitt
and Chapman also beat Scholes’s
time, and Devitt, in registering
55.85ec., is only the second swimmer
(after Henricks) to beat 56sec. for the
distance in a long-course pool.
Henricks’s win was Australia’s first
Olympic freestyle gold-medal since
1924.
Devitt has filled more second-places
in sprint-races than firsts, usually to
the brilliant Henripks; in any other
country at present he’d be national
sprint-champion.
Other gold-medals this day:
The decathlon, won by American
negro Milton Campbell, with 7937
points (new Olympic record); world-
record holder Rafer Johnson, of
U.S.A., second.
The women’s shot-put was won by
a 16st. Russian steamrolleress, Tamara
Tychkevitch, with a distance of 54ft.
sin. (Olympic record —and, apropos,
2£in. better than the best Australian
male effort, by Barry Donath, in the
men’s shot-put).
The women’s 200-metre breaststroke
was won by Ursula Happe, of
Germany, in 2min. 53.1 sec. (Olympic
record).
In the canoeing Russia won the
Canadian pairs, 10,000-metres;
Rottman, of Rumania, the Canadian
singles, 10,000-metres (the best
Canada could do in these two events
was 7th in the singles); G. Fredriks-
son, of Sweden, the kayak-singles,
10,000-metres; and Hungary the
kayak-pairs, 10,000-metres (with
Maroubra lifesavers Green and
Brown winning a bronze-medal in this
event, Australia’s first-ever canoeing
medal).
G. Sheen, of Britain, won the
women’s individual foils, and in the
shooting Linnosvuo, of Finland, won
the 50-metres free pistol.
The ninth day, the last day of
the athletics, saw two gold-
medals won by Australia —by the
girls both times, one in the track-
and-field, one in swimming.
Australia (Misses Cuthbert, Strick-
land, Mellor aftd Croker) won the
4 x 100-metres relay, in Olympic and
world-record time of 44.55ec., having
earlier set a world-record (44.95ec.)
in winning the first heat. There was
no baton-dropping this time. Miss
Cuthbert became the first woman
athlete to win three gold-medals at the
one Games.
Not to be outdone by Australia’s
male sprint-swimmers the previous
night, our three star girls came first
(Dawn Fraser), second (Lorraine
Crapp) and third (Faith Leech) in the
women’s 100-metres. The winner’s
62sec. was a new Olympic and world-
record, Lorraine Crapp’s 62.35ec. also
breaking the previous world-record
(62.45ec.), set by herself.
Features of the day also were the
1500-metres and the marathon. The
1500 went to a “four-minute” miler,
Ron Delany, of Ireland —somewhat
(Continued on page 33)


Reporters, Strike Odd Ones
All in the Way of News
By C. MCNEIL
BUNGS and bank-managers
(very able assayers) rate
reporters as pretty poor
risks, somewhere around
black-and - white artists,
musicians and bootlace-sellers.
And they are right ; for when
you put it up against what a
factory-hand can get, daily
journalism today is not a very
highly paid profession.
Yet there are plenty of these
journalists around who would
not get out of the game for any-
thing. They are happily—or
slaphappily—stuck against a
great magnet called News.
They see it happening —some-
times a ddy before the general
public reads about it. They get
on Christian-name terms with
the people who make it, and
know what sort of men they are.
They get really close to what is
going to be read over breakfast
next morning.
They see and hear things that
don’t always get into the
papers; they sometimes go out
after one story and find a totally
different, better one; they are
being perpetually surprised.
If they change their job they
might go into public-relations,
which still lets them hang
around newspaper-offices. You
rarely find one who has left the
life completely for something
more secure, more lucrative,
quieter, and therefore pretty
dull.
Here, then, is a mixed-grill of
the kind a reporter gets on his
menu. Some of it is conversa-
tion, which did not make the
news-columns. Some of it is the
background of stories that did.
It might explain why reporters
keep a very open mind when
they are going out on a job—for
you can never tell what you will
be doing, hearing, or seeing
when you get there;,
* & »>
r pHE crowd was about 200,
T most of them from cars they
had parked, and they therefore
risked being locked in for the
night, for this was in Centennial
Park, where they close the car-
gates at sunset.
They were watching two
towing-trucks pulling from one
of the smaller ponds in the park
a little sedan car.
The first thing that stood out
was the yellow square with the
black “L” for learner fastened
in the rear window.
No one had been drowned, or
anything like that, the crowd
knew. There had been a
woman and a man in the car.
They had got very wet, and
had seemed to be agitated and
suffering from shock and had
made their own way up to a
near-by hospital for a check-up.
With the little sedan again on
dry land a big sergeant stepped
forward and picked up one of
the objects rushing out with the
water. It was a woman’s shoe.
According to the experts in
the crowd, and according to the
opinion of the sergeant at that
stage, here, if ever there was
one, was a case of the woman
driver.
With all the hundreds of acres
of Centennial Park to drive into,
only a woman, learning to drive,
could end-up in the pond.
Bystanders who were there a
bit earlier told the sergeant they
had seen the man and woman
jump from the car. She had
been very upset and had
excitedly grabbed things out of
the car before wading in to dry
land.
Good. All a sort of evidence
to the same conclusion . . .
Well, at the hospital, the
sergeant, with reporter.at <dbow,
learned from the couple that the
woman was a competent driver
who had held a licence for a
number of years.
She had been teaching her
husband to drive.
* ♦> *
THINGS were quiet in the
little police-station out on
the fringe of Sydney and the
boys were discussing a detective-
sergeant of the C. 1.8. known
sometimes as “Gunner.”
This “Gunner” is a brilliant
after-dinner speaker, a very
good mixer, and gets quite a lot
of difficult assignments calling
on his powers of diplomacy.
He is widely respected, and is
a very likeable man to talk to.
He earned his nickname by
shooting dead several criminals
in circumstances that gave him
no alternative . . .
Anyway, that was just the line
of talk when a young constable
came out with: “I shot some-
thing once.”
“Oh?”
“We were in a warehouse,
my mate and I, and both of us
were new. The call was
intruders on premises, and we
were looking for them and I was
scared stiff I had my gun out
“Can I help you, Noah?”
creeping along behind some
lockers and my mate was away
over in the back of the building.
“I heard a click,” the young
constable went on. “My knees
were belting together, and I
stepped out from the lockers and
yelled out ‘Put ’em up! ’
“I couldn’t see a damn’ thing
in the dark. Nothing happened.
Then there was a terrific
whirring noise.
“So I let go straight at it.
“Stopped it all right. It was
the bundy” . . .
Another constable there asked
the reporter if he had heard of
Sergeant Blank, who earned
distinction in the force by
accidentally shooting himself
twice in the one foot. The
reporter had not.
“First time,” said the
constable, “he had to go out and
shoot a dog that had been hit by
a car.
“It had to be done, but he
didn’t like the job. Anyway, he
decided to get it over quick, but
in his hurry his hand must have
shook.
“First one put the old dog
away, second one went through
his boot.
“He gets back out of hospital,
is on duty two nights and
there’s an armed hold-up.
“Out goes the sarge in the
P.D., and they’re tearing around
all over the joint and didn’t find
a soul.
“They gave it away and get
back to the station, and the sarge
is standing in the middle of the
floor and puts his gun back in
his holster.
“He notices that the flap on
his holster won’t go down and
then he sees that the hammer
on his gun is still back.
“Do you know how he let’s
the hammer down? —pulls the
trigger!
“Straight through his boot,
and they’ve still got the hole in
the floorboard.”
♦> ♦!+
DID anyone here do
Canungra?”
A few yells affirmed that they
had, and one that he hadn’t, but
that it couldn’t have been a
patch on this.
It was a Sunday night, in the
wild scrub that lies between the
exclusive Sydney suburb of
Clontarf and the sea. Even so,
the terrain was like Canungra
jungle-school without question
mainly up hill —but the “troops”
were a very mixed bag.
The leader was Sergeant Harry
Ware, of the Cliff Rescue Squad.
The rest were the; “bodies” he
had been able to assemble in a
hurry.
There were detectives, sticking
to their hats to the end;
uniformed men from police-
stations; Safety Bureau men
who had been peacefully booking
motorists ; one crown-sergeant;
and one first-class inspector, a
Mr. Larsen, with silver braid on
his cap.
There were also reporters, and
photographers with cameras.
Usually these saw such doings
in their semidetached way from
the sidelines. But this time
Harry Ware had asked the press
to help on the actual job—
because there was more than a
ton of ropes, reels, batteries and
powerful lamps and other gear
that had to be lugged for a mile
through the scrub, and then for
hundreds of feet up, and down,
a cliff-face where a youth was
trapped on a narrow ledge.
To make the going more
interesting in the Canungra
sense there was no moon, and,
further, the party of 30 pro-
gressed by dead-reckoning.
Maybe a Clontarf possum or
two heard' these observations
that night:
A Safety Bureau man: “I’ve
ripped the seat out of my pants.
That bloomin’ post . . . what’s
the sign say?”
His friend: “ ‘Do not pick
the wildflowers.’ ”
A photographer, falling, and
taking the weight of his camera-
gear : “Hey, shine your torch on
this . . • Well, the lens is all
right.”
Sergeant Ware: “Hold it, up
front! Give the laddies with the
rope a rest.”
A 16st. detective: “I’m
positively exhausted, Sergeant.”
A reporter, sliding, he thought,
through space down a rock and
then feeling Inspector Larsen’s
mighty hand pin him to the rock
like a beetle to a card: “Whew! ”
A voice at the back of the
patrol: “Is there a doctor in
the house —I’ve got battery-acid
all over my pants.”
Another voice: “Put in a
dry-cleaning bill.” Derisive
laughter . . . the police can t
claim for dry-cleaning.
Another photographer fell, this
time badly damaging his camera.
His colleagues conferred with
him and decided on a way which
would let him still get photos
when the time came. The
photographer was cheerful again.
At one point the party went
within an ace of being trapped
by an incoming tide. Finally,
after a long climb, battered by
the tough going, they took up
rescue-positions above the youth
on the ledge.
The police-launch Nemesis
and an Army launch were hove-
to offshore shining their spot-
lights, which lit up the youth’s
white shirt down on the cliff-
As Harry Ware tied the rope
around himself he
quietly spoke to his
assorted assistants, for
their guidance.
“Now,” he told them,
“I don’t know what it’s
going to be like down
there. There’ll probably
be rocks coming around
my ears while I go.
I’ll be hanging, or I
might be walking, down
the cliff. Just you do
what Constable Tyson
here relays from my
signals and evefything’ll
be fine.”
Harry Ware went
over the cliff at 9.15
p.m. in the dark, and
dark it was.
About 10 minutes
later a sharp whistle-
blast came up.
Constable Tyson
ordered: “Hold it!”
There was a long whistle-blast.
“Lower again slowly,” said
Constable Tyson.
A few minutes later came
three whistle-blasts, and the
rescuers began slowly pulling-in
the ropes the one round
Harry Ware and the one he had
taken for the youth.
A voice, pulling on one of the
ropes: “Gee. This seems light.
I think we’ve been baited.” . . .
Light, because on that rope,
pulling between a probationary-
constable and a reporter, was
Inspector Larsen.
As Harry Ware and the youth
came together to the cliff-edge,
Ware’s rope spun. He yelled in
pain as his chest hit the rock,
but when he got his breath he
said: “Get him up first.” . . .
Then it was all over, except
for the long climb back to the
cars
As the party went, a panting
voice said: “I keep thinking of a
schooner, nice and cold, with
frost on it.”
There were cries of “Pound
him!” “Lean on him a little!”
“Throw him to Nemesis! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
MR. R. Osborne, an English
migrant, lived at the Heath-
cote-road migrant-hostel.
To get to work he had to walk
down to Georges River, catch
a ferry for about 50yds. and
then walk up to the East Hills
railway-station; and so to
town.
The reason for the short ferry-
trip was that a footbridge over
the river there had collapsed
some months before, and the
new one was not quite complete.
Along with Mr. Osborne,
about 500 people a day used the
ferry night and morning,
coming from similar hostels, a
Navy establishment and an
Army camp.
One night when Mr. Osborne
and about 20 others were wait-
ing for the ferry on the little
landing the boards collapsed, and
some of them found themselves
in the Georges River.
Interviewed later, Mr. Osborne
said that there was really nothing
to complain about. The ferry
and its landing were only
temporary. The migrant-hostel
was only temporary . . . and the
people living there had to put
up with things like that. They
couldn’t expect a lot of money
to be allocated to building the
new footbridge any quicker than
it was being built. Everything
was temporary.
Mr. Osborne was clearly not
a complainer.
A reporter put away his note-
book and asked him if Australia
was quite what he expected when
he came here.
Not quite, he said. The picture
painted in London was a little
rosier than reality, as far as
housing and things like that went.
But he thought it was quite true
as regards opportunities. Some
things, though, did take work-
ing out.
For instance, there was the
strike.
There was a European fore-
man, who for some reason was
not popular with the men. So
they held a meeting and passed
a vote of no-confidence in the
foreman.
They stopped work until the
firm agreed to fire him.
The firm made no bones about
it, and dismissed the man with-
out notice. But he was a
unionist, too, and such a dis-
missal was wrong, according to
the unionists. So they went on
strike again to have him rein-
stated and fired properly.
Mr. Osborne said he just didn't
understand it.
+> ❖ ❖
TEE semitrailer was loaded
with paint and putty, so
when it went off the road plenty
of weight went with it.
It ploughed into one wall of
the fibro cottage and kept on,
going out through the other wall.
The roof collapsed on it. The
impact pushed the cottage abofit
3ft. off its foundations.
No one was killed. A lad
asleep in the cottdge did not
even wake-up till he heard voices
long after the accident. Yet
unbelievable things had been
done to the cottage.
All the floors sloped up and
down like ramps. Most of the
interior walls were askew.
Ceilings had caved-in and the
sky showed through.
“Come and have a look at
the bathroom,” said a police-
sergeant on the job.
The tub was filled with debris
and tiles and covered with
broken beams.
Neither the sarge nor the other
police on the job could remember
.a smash exactly like it, but one
recalled a case involving a motor-
bike.
“It was an illegally-use,” he
said. “He was tearing down the
street and got out of control and
went through the car-gates of a
place and up the drive.
“The drive lifted pretty
sharply and that must have given
him the take-off, because he hit
the wall five-feet up.
“It was fibro, and he went
clean between the battens. That
was lucky enough for anyone,
but he did it twice, because he
went across the carpet and out
between the battens on the other
wall.
“It bent the handlebars clean
back and lifted off the side-
guards, but he only got a
couple of scratches.”
“I remember,” said another
of the police, “a funny one with
a bike in the bush.
“We get a call there’s been
o Continued on page 30)


C.S.R. Co’s HALF-YEARLY REPORT
Points from General Manager's Report to Shareholders
® C.S.R.'s raw sugar production in Australia
* Fiji raw sugar production reduced by rain
* 30% increase in sales of chemicals
C.S.R.'s seven Australian raw sugar mills
should produce 220,000 tons of raw sugar in
the 1956 season, Dr. R. W. Harman, General
Manager of the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Ltd., said in his recent half-yearly report to
shareholders.
Production from C.S.R.
mills is slightly less than
last year. A cyclone in
March caused severe
damage to sugar cane v in
the areas,north of Towns-
ville where the company’s
4 Queensland mills are
situated. (C.S.R. owns 7
of Australia’s 34 raw
sugar mills—4 in north
Queensland and 3 in
northern N.S.W. and
produces about one-fifth
of the Australian output
of raw sugar). Total Aus-
tralian production of raw
sugar for the 1956 season
(from all mills including
C.S.R.’s) is expected to
be about 1,197,000 tons,
62,000 tons more than in
1955.
Fiji sugar production
reduced by rain
The cane crop now being
harvested in Fiji has been
seriously affected by abnorm-
ally wet conditions in the
early months of the year. The
raw sugar output is expected
to be about 143,000 tons, a
very disappointing result.
A record acreage has
been planted this year.
The appearance of the
young cane is satisfactory
and if weather conditions
continue to be normal
there should be a good
output of raw sugar next
season.
International Sugar
Agreement
A full examination of the
working of the International
Sugar Agreement was due this
year. A conference was called
under the auspices of the
United Nations and took
place in New York in May
and June. The conference
failed to reach agreement at
that session, mainly on the
question of export quotas for
individual countries, and it
was agreed to reassemble in
October at Geneva. The Com-
pany is represented at the
Conference.
British Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement
■The United Kingdom Sugar
Act has come into operation
and the present system of
State trading in sugar that
has been in operation in the
United Kingdom in recent
years will cease from Ist
January, 1957. The United
Kingdom Government’s con-
tractual obligations under the
British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement will not be affected.
Discussions on the new
arrangements are taking place
at present in London between
Commonwealth producers and
the British Ministry of Food
and the new Sugar Board.
Australian Internal
Sugar Agreement
The Sugar Agreement of
1951 expired on 31st August,
1956, and a similar agreement
for a further five years has
been made between the Com-
monwealth and Queensland
Governments subject to ratifi-
cation by the Commonwealth
Parliament. Under the renewed
agreement the wholesale price
of 1A sugar remained at the
price at which it was fixed in
May, 1956, viz., £B2/1/- per
ton, the corresponding retail
price being lOd. per lb.
Australian Refined
Sugar Sales
During the year ended 30th
September, 1956, sales of
sugar and sugar products from
our Australian refineries
amounted to 493,000 tons, an
increase of 12,000 tons or 2i%
on sales for the previous year.
New Zealand Refined
Sugar Sales
The quantity of refined
sugar products sold from our
Auckland refinery, 97,500 tons,
for the year ended 30th Sep-
tember, 1956, was practically
the same as for 1955.
Ocean Vessels
Construction of our new
“Rona” has continued accord-
ing to schedule. The vessel
DISTRIBUTION OF RETAIL PRICE
OF REFINED SUGAR IN AUSTRALIA
RAW SUGAR MILCERS
17.8%
REFINING
14.7%
CANE FARMERS
iiiiii
41.4%
WHOLESALE AND
RETAIL GROCERS
14.2%
TRANSPORT
EXPENSES
(and sundnes)
11.9%
Australia’s 9,000 cane farmers and 34 raw sugar mills
receive about 6d. out of the lOd. per lb. retail price of
refined sugar. The remaining 4d. goes mainly to meet: —
• cost of transporting the raw sugar from the north
to the refineries (about Id.)
• cost of refining (about lid.)
• cost of distribution through the grocery trade
(about lid.).
Sundry costs of the sugar industry include assistance
to the fruit growers and processors.
should be launched during
the third week in December,
and we expect to take delivery
at the end of next March.
Distilleries
Sales of distillery products
from our Sydney and Mel-
bourne distilleries are cur-
rently at about last year’s
levels.
Sales of building
materials steady
Sales of our building
materials have remained steady
despite the fact that there
have been signs of slackening
in building activity. Restricted
finance for home building has
continued to limit sales in
the domestic field but there
has been a steady demand for
our building materials for
commercial and industrial
work.
New sales offices have been
opened in Hobart and Wol-
longong to give improved
service in these areas.
A firm overseas market
continues for Australian blue
asbestos and production is
being expanded as quickly as
possible to meet the strong
export demand.
C.S.R. Chemicals
sales increase
The value of sales of
chemicals made at the Rhodes
and Lane Cove factories con-
tinued to increase and, for
the year ended June, 1956,
was 30% above the preceding
year. In addition sales have
improved for products made
by the various overseas com-
panies for which C.S.R.
Chemicals is the Australian
agent. We are building up a
worthwhile export trade in
some of our chemical pro-
ducts, largely as a result of
oversea visits by officers of
the Company.
C.S.R. chemicals are
widely used in Australian industry
Industrial chemicals made by C.S.R. Chemicals
Pty. Ltd. are used in the manufacture of medicines
such as aspirin, phenacetin, sulpha drugs and
other pharmaceutical products; foodstuffs; textiles
and fabrics; plastics hardware, packaging and
toys; lacquers, paints and synthetic enamels.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUEZ COMMENT
IIfHEN Nasser first seized the
* * canal British press-opinion
separated into two main schools,
one for direct action, the other
for negotiation; when British
and French troops landed in
Egypt the common criticisms
were that the action was too
late and that it was taken with-
out proper consultation with the
U.S. or with the members of
the British Commonwealth.
When a cease-fire was ordered
it was held to be the result of
American or Russian pressure,
or both, and contended that an
action which showed some
promise, of success was thereby
doomed to failure.
Obviously, as the following
typical British and American
press-comment suggests, Prime
Minister Eden has been having
the roughest time of his career,
and with papers like “Man-
chester Guardian” and London
“Economist” more-or-less after
his scalp he is by no means out
of the woods yet.
“N. Y. Times” editorial com-
ment : “The results to date
hardly justify the great risks
taken and the high cost of the
operation. Israel had completed
her victory with amazing ease
before the British and French
landed. Most of the Suez Canal
has been occupied with little
fighting and few casualties, but
it will take about three months
to clear the canal of the ships
the Egyptians sank in it. Mean-
while sea-traffic must go around
the Cape. The British and
French may well have succeeded
in breaking Nasser’s unilateral
and illegal grip on the canal,
but he is yet to be reckoned
with and international control
is still to be negotiated.
“Above all, Colonel Nasser
stays, and his position in the
Moslem world is still high.”
The same: “As Canadian
Prime Minister St. Laurent said
a few days ago, the crisis has
‘strained the Western alliance
and the bonds of the British
Commonwealth more than any
event since the Second World
War.’ It has also divided the
British people as nothing has
divided them in this century.
“Anyone knowing the extent
of the provocation that Britain
and France had from Nasser
and the worthiness of their
aims had to sympathise with
the action taken and hope in
their hearts for a speedy suc-
cess, but the moral aspects left
nagging doubts.
“The magnitude of the risks
being taken became obvious
when the threatening Notes
arrived from Marshal Bulganin.
No one can know just what they
meant and just how far the
Russians were prepared to go,
but certainly they were alarming,
and they were followed by the
hasty acceptance of a British-
French cease-fire long before the
Suez objectives were achieved.”
* * *
C. L. Sulzberger, in “New
York Times” : “The ultimate
test of wisdom for any specific
foreign policy is, unfortunately,
not always its morality but also
its success. In neither category
does the Anglo-French adventure
into Egypt pass scrutiny. The
Suez Canal is not and will not
be controlled by them. They
have had ,to withdraw their
sudden and highly pragmatic
support for Israel, which is now
more isolated than ever. They
have severely.strained their inter-
national bonds and prestige.
Colonel Nasser, their obvious
enemy, remains in power and
will probably emerge as a greater
regional force than ever before.
Their military resolve and tech-
niques appear tarnished. Their
long-range influence in ap area
of vital interest is even weaker
than previously.”
The same: “What are the
results of this unhappy failure?
First of all, it becomes apparent
that the role, at this historical
juncture, of any but a super-
power is pitifully limited. The
only two Western allies with
apparent freedom of action have
demonstrated that, in reality, no
such freedom exists. Small
nations and even middle-sized
nations can no longer act alone
in what they imagine their best
interests to be. Britain and
France have sacrificed much
influence and reputation.
Hungary is gone, Poland
menaced. The handwriting
looms large on Israel’s wall.
And Egypt would have been
down the drain had not Russia
intervened so strongly. It now
appears inevitable that the rem-
nants of Britain’s and France’s
Imperial structure will disinte-
grate more rapidly than hitherto
indicated.”
The same: “Meanwhile the
entire Western-alliance structure
is weaker. Nato requires
dramatic strengthening if it is
to survive much longer. The
Baghdad Pact, which we [the
U.S.] invented but never joined,
is wobbling on oblivion’s border.
And Seato, never' much more
than a mapmaker’s exercise in
planning, is even more shadowy
than before.
“The lack of military punch
displayed by Britain and France
cannot instil much Asiatic con-
fidence. And the French, who
had a real Army in Indo-China
when Seato first was founded,
have virtually nothing left there.
Even * the Balkan Pact, mori-
bund for two years, seems
eligible for a tombstone.”
* * *
Air-Chief-Marshal Sir Philip
Joubert, in London “Daily
Express “ Why did they stop?
Why, when the Egyptian Army,
its morale lowered by a heavy
defeat, was retreating fast down
the canal, did the British and
French Governments decide to
halt their forces? From the
purely military aspect such a
halt could be nothing but
disastrous operationally, and
lowering for the morale of our
troops. From the Egyptian
angle it was a gift from Paradise.
Nasser’s ‘Father of Lies’—the
Cairo Radio —could claim quite
logically that it was Russia’s
threat of intervention, backed by
world opinion, that had made
the Allied Governments hold
back.”
The same : “In military history
the unfortunate results flowing
from such hesitations are all too
clear. Never have they led to
success, only to massive and
disastrous failure. Why, then,
was the decision to halt taken
by Sir Anthony Eden and M.
Pineau?”
The same: “The dilemma in
which the Allied Governments
find themselves is poignant. If
they know something of vast
importance which compelled
them to their present course,
apparently they cannot reveal it.
So they have to appear as futile
and irresolute before world
opinion.”
* * *
Angus Maude, “Suez Group”
M.P., in London “Spectator”:
“The Government were on
balance right to use force, fright-
ful though the risks were. What
I now have to ask is whether
they were right to do it if they
were not determined to go
through with it to the bitter end.
It certainly was no part of the
policy of the ‘Suez Group’ to
stop at Port Said! In view of
the appalling danger of going in
at all, were the extra risks
involved in total occupation of
the canal so much greater as to
justify the chance of a total
moral defeat? Are we not now
in danger of losing everything
we risked without anything to
show for it?
“Many of the Government’s
supporters are utterly be-
wildered. We admired the
Prime Minister’s courage and
steadfastness in taking the action
he did. Is it all to be wasted?
Why did we stop? If it was
because of the Russian threat,
then Russia will soon be immov-
ably entrenched in the Middle
East. If it was because of an
American threat to starve us of
oil, then responsibility for the
ultimate destruction of Western
interests in the Middle East—
and perhaps of the Atlantic
Alliance —rests squarely on Mr.
Eisenhower, and we admit to the
world that we are now an
American satellite.”
* * *
London “ Spectator” editorial
comment: “It is necessary to


The Andrea Daria's
untold story
"My legs . . . they’re caught,”
moaned Martha Peterson. Her
husband, hurled from their
cabin by the crash, crawled back
to find her pinned under the
wreckage.
December Reader’s Digest
brings you the heart-rending
story of Dr. Peterson’s futile 5-
hour struggle to save his wife,
as the stricken liner slowly sank.
Then there’s “Are you a
bore?,” “Rebellion at Poznan,”
“Why there cannot be another
war,” “Open your eyes to beauty
around you”—thirty-two stimu-
lating articles, no less, in
December issue of Reader’s
Digest. Only two shillings, at
newss +n nds and bookstalls
make ..are of your copy today.
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established lnun »* deign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterlog, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Now, even more value in Holden Utility
EXTRA POWER AT
NO EXTRA COST
JPI INCREASED POWER increased handling ease in traffic increased
SX ft load hauling capacity these are the three great improvements you gain
with the more powerful engine now in Holden Utility.
With 70 gross B.H.P. performance, and higher compression ratio of 6.8 to 1,
Holden Utility offers new punch at the same low price of only £B5O plus tax
less than Holden Utility cost in 1952.
You’ll find, too, that Holden Retains its famous petrol economy reported
by many owners to be 30 m.p.g. Today more than ever you get more for your
money in Holden.
Drive Holden today. Discover for yourself Holden Utility’s new performance
and value. Your nearest Holden Dealer will be delighted to show you how
well this improved Holden can handle your kind of load over your kind of road.
Let him arrange for a demonstration today and prove for yourself that Holden
is the utility for you.
HOLDEN* Australia's Own Utility
LIST PRICE £B5O PLUS TAX *registered trade mark
AUSTRALIA'S OWN PANEL VAN £865 PLUS TAX
CONVENIENT GMAC HIRE PURCHASE ARRANGEMENTS ARE AVAILABLE.
THERE ARE TWO “AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIOS SPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR HOLDEN.
General Motors-Holden’s Limited • Brisbane • Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Perth
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUTVAjJgTRALIA XI2J
recognise where British Govern-
ments have gone wrong in order
to decide how they can begin to
go right. Some tasks have an
obvious urgency: for instance,
a closer alignment of British
and American policy in the
Middle East. To go it alone
may be popular for the moment,
but in the long run this is not a
possible course for this country
to adopt. Suez has clearly shown
that Western interests in the
Levant can only be maintained
with difficulty without American
support, while rumors of MIGs
in Syria and Russian tech-
nicians in Egypt should con-
vince the State Department that
America would be the first to
lose from an elimination of
British influence in the area.
“Then there is the Common-
wealth: the damage done by
unilateral British decisions over
Suez must be made good by
closer consultation in future, so
that an association which is our
chief foreign-policy asset shall
not be needlessly thrown away.
“In the Middle East itself the
necessity for complete revalua-
tion of policy is as great as ever.
Israel is now more exposed than
ever to an Arab revanche backed
by the Soviet Union; nothing
that has happened invalidates
the arguments for an Anglo-
Israeli alliance as the corner-
stone of any stable Middle
Eastern system. The Arab States
must understand that no limited
war against Israel is possible for
them even when backed by
Russia. Surely, after the events
of the last months, no British
statesman will think it possible
or desirable to appease the Arabs
at the expense Of the West’s only
natural ally in the Middle East?”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”: “It
is now obvious, both from the
proof of huge-scale supply of.
Soviet arms to Egypt, and from
the still-menacing threat of Soviet
intervention, that the Anglo-
French action in the Suez Canal
area intercepted a danger far
greater even than that of a
general Middle Eastern war. The
dreadful vision emerges of an
Arab bloc, armed and backed
to the hilt by Soviet Russia,
engaged in a death-struggle with
an Israel whose cries for aid
against extermination could not
go unheeded by America and
the other Western Powers: of an
Armageddon fought by Middle
Eastern men and women as
Moscow - contrived instruments
of a Great Power duel. This
danger has not yet by any means
been destroyed.”
• # • e
The same: “Before the cease-
fire, it was acknowledged by
many in the Opposition, besides
those supporting the Govern-
ment, that swift practical success’
would go far towards vindicating
the Anglo-French action. Since
the cease-fire, however, it has
become increasingly apparent
that anything short of the com-
plete occupation of the Suez
Canal may leave our cause —
which is the cause of peace; —a
long way from victory.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“The saddest aspect of the
present situation is that a task
half-finished looks like being
worse than —or at least as bad as
—a task not even undertaken.”
The same: “Peaceful, even
competitive, coexistence is dead.
Soviet policy has killed it, and
the status quo , upon which the
false peace of the last eight years
was based, is irrevocably
shattered. Communism is on the
march everywhere. In the
Middle East, Soviet arms and
equipment' valued at least at
£l7O million have been
poured in, apart from indirect
economic aid, and in Europe
massive Red Army concentra-
tions are reported from East
Germany, Poland, Russia and,
of course, Hungary.”
The same: “Britain tried to
give a lead in the Middle East
and failed at a vital moment.
America must now face facts,
and not only throw her great
weight behind the forces of
reason in the United Nations
and so defeat the aggressive voice
of Egypt and Russia, but must
also make it quite clear that
Nato is ready to act in the way
it was meant to act; The crisis
exists in Europe and the Middle
East alike. Nato’s responsibilities,
include the maintenance of order
and peace in Europe and, through
Turkey, also in the Middle East.
This great instrument is there
to be used.”
* * *
Stewart and Joseph Alsop, in
N. Y. “Herald Tribune’: “The
Anglo - Franco-Israeli interven-
tion in Egypt may have been a
mistake. It may have been
immoral. It may have been ill-
planned. But, in fact, the opera-
tion was succeeding rather
brilliantly when everything that
had been gained was lost again
by a premature cease-fire.”
The same: “American policy
was never designed to make the
best of the bad business of the
Anglo-Franco-Israeli operation
in Egypt. Instead our. policy
seemed to be chiefly designed to
punish the British, French and.
Israelis for their disobedience to
big brother State Department.
Hence we joined with the Soviets
at the United Nations. We
placed the utmost pressure on
London, Paris and Jerusalem to
accept an immediate cease-fire.
And we paid very little attention
to the possibility that we were
thus making a bad business a
lot worse.”
The same: “The British and
French might have rejected
Bulganin’s ultimatum if they
could have hoped for American
support. But President Eisen-
hower, while opposing Soviet
intervention in the Middle East,
was also saying the same things
to London and Paris that
Moscow was saying. The only
difference was in the tone of
voice. Hence the British and
French, caved-in and agreed to
an immediate and unconditional
cease-fire in Egypt.
“The State Department then
turned on Israel, angrily
threatening to expel the Israelis
from the United Nations if
Prime Minister Ben-Gurion
refused to withdraw his troops
from Egypt. So the Israelis
caved-in, too; and humpty-
dumpty Nasser was triumphantly
put back on the wall again.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“The wider horizon is beginning
to look rather less discouraging.
This crisis has unmasked
Russia’s ambitions in the Middle
East and the extent to which
her penetration has already been
carried,”
* * *
London “Observer ” : “Our
attempts to conduct an inde-
pendent British policy in the
Middle East have led to some
strange consequences. The British
and French 12-hour ultimatum
to Egypt (following the massive
attack on Egypt by Israeli forces)
and the subsequent bombing and
invasion of Egypt—actions
justified by references to
President Nasser’s book and past
speeches, and now by an allega-
tion that Russia was about to
move into the area —will have
profound ill-effects on our real
interests. They have already
proved of incalculable value to
Communism by diverting .world
attention from Russia’s barbaric
subjugation of Hungary. They
will encourage the Arab States
to look more keenly towards
Russia for support, particularly
since Britain and France seem
to have shown an active partisan-
ship with Israel (which will also
add to the future troubles of
Israel). They have lost us the
confidence of Washington, where
the President first heard of our
ultimatum via the press, and of
the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, whose resolu-
tions and requests we ignored.”
The same: v Tt is now a race
to see who will fill the vacuum
created by the paralysis of
British influence.
“Only swift action by the
United Nations, with American
support, can now prevent Russia
from flowing into this vacuum
on a wave of Arab popular
indignation. If the average Arab
in Syria and Jordan feels that
only Russia can effectively
guarantee his security against
Israel, now in his eyes backed*
by Britain and France, he will
inevitably turn to Russia.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “In
Britain the choice of policy—
and the responsibility—lie with
the Conservatives. They have a
majority in the House of Com-
mons, and only they can make
a change.
“Should they not ask them-
selves whether the present
Prime Minister can hope to
carry out any kind of construc-
tive programme? His policy,
although intended for the best,
has been a failure. His arbitrary
action, although designed in the
general interests of the world,
has brought on him the deep
suspicion and distrust of other
members of the United Nations.
“Even the American and
Canadian Governments, who
should be our closest friends,
can hardly have the same
confidence in him as before.
While he remains Prime
Minister it will be impossible to
convince the world that British
policy has taken a new direction.
“With a new Prime Minister
and a new Cabinet, many people
in this country and abroad
would be willing to give them
the benefit of doubts. But how
soon will the change be made?
The longer it is delayed the
greater may be the injury to
Britain, the Atlantic alliance, the
Commonwealth, and the United
Nations.
“The greater, too, will be the
danger that, through mis-
handling, the present crisis may
grow into a third world war.”
* * *
London “Economist” editorial
comment: “One fact stands out
above all; it is that none of the
perils can be averted, and none
of the opportunities be grasped,
without the American alliance —
or without the positive exercise
by the Americans of their power
and influence.
“The great task of statesman-
ship now is to rebuild the
alliance. There is no substitute.
We cannot, as we should now
know, go it alone. It is no
answer to say that, if the
Americans will not act, we will
act without them; we cannot.
The facts of power remain:
Russia cannot be resisted,
whether the challenge is by
direct attack or by indirect
subversion, nor can the United
Nations be activated, without
the Americans. That is why,
despite the resentful regrets of
those who naturally gird against
the decline in Britain’s world
power, much the largest casualty
of the Middle Eastern mis-
adventure (and of the manner
in which it was embarked upon)
must be seen to be the trans-
atlantic link.
“The recipe is simple, if
harsh. We must learn that we
are not the Americans’ equals
now, and cannot be. We have a
right to state our minimum
national interests and expect the
Americans to respect them. But,
that done, we must look for their
lead. And they, on their side,
must accept, as they have not
done, the obligation to protect
our interests and provide, as they
have not provided, clear
leadership.”


There are no
BETTER CEILINGS!
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are renowned, not only for
their beauty of design, but because they are truly
permanent and trouble free. Decide now on INEX-
PENSIVE Wunderlich Metal Ceilings—Ceilings that
• LAST A LIFETIME • SELDOM NEED REPAINTING'
© DO NOT STAIN OR CRACK • NEED NO REPAIRS
Ideal also for covering over faulty or dilapidated
ceilings in old homes.
Ask your local hardware merchant, 'phone MX 2411 or
write to Wunderlich Limited, Dept. M, Box 474, G.P.Q.,
Sydney, for prices and illustrated catalogue.
modern
METAL CEILINGS
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
in sizes 5f ins. x 3j ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
: £2
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O'Sullivan [g;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
304 -306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
ROSENE
TILLEY
, RgcjcJ.
PRESSURE
tamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ [OO% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON I* PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD.. ESSEN DON. VICTORIA.
you come here starting
quarrels,” she told Mother.
Mother jumped up, offended,
and marched to the door. On
the third of the doormats she
stopped and turned back.
“Just think, Alma, how you
would feel if you came into
your mother’s room one morning
and found she’d died through
not being able to make you
hear! ”
“You tell her that,” Alma’s
voice came back. “It might put
a bit of reasonableness into
her.”
TT was only a few weeks later
that old Mrs. Ventner died,
of a heart-attack, during the
night.
There was a tremendous
funeral and nothing said about
whether Alma had any share of
the responsibility. But I could
see that Mother was uneasy. At
last she spoke to me, after
making sure no one else would
overhear, her eyes wide with the
drama of the situation.
“I can’t sleep for thinking
about it,” she said, “and when
I do go to sleep I dream of Alma
sitting up there in that big brick
house of hers in triumph. I
tell you, it’s not right.”
“But what can you do?” I
asked. #
“She caused her mother’s
death, and she should repent or
she’ll go to hell.”
“Perhaps she is repenting,” I
suggested.
Mother stared at me as if this
was an entirely new thought;
the severe look on her face gave
place to a more characteristic
one of compassion.
“Perhaps she is,” she said.
“Perhaps she’s suffering agonies
of repentance and needs a friend
to comfort her.”
“She could be,” I agreed.
“Get out the car quickly,
Harry ; we must go to see her.”
As we drove over Mother
prepared herself for her ordeal:
“If she’s repenting it will be
easy. I hope she’s repenting,
because then I’ll know what to
do. But if she isn’t, we know
from past experience that it’s no
use accusing hSr. She only
becomes quarrelsome. What I’ll
do is just sit there looking sad
and sympathetic. That will
melt her, even if she is like I
saw her in my dreams. She’s
been well brought up, and if I
act towards her in true Christian
meekness and love I’m sure that
she will be brought to see the
light.”
This time we didn’t knock
very long on the front door, but
soon went around to the back.
Alma was just coming out, her
arms full of brooms, scrubbing-
brushes and floor-mops. Before
she spoke to us she turned and
locked the door; then she
greeted us with a busy smile, far
too animated to be affected by
the expression of sorrow which
Mother had prepared for her.
“Aperitif ?”
“I’ve just given it a good
clean-up,” she said, with great
satisfaction, “and fumigated it
to kill all the germs. So you
must excuse me if I take you
into the old house.”
She led us into a shabby little
sitting-room where she didn’t
seem to care what I did with my
feet.
“My room is here and Alfred’s
is there. The only other room
is the kitchen. But it’s quite
comfortable,” she said.
She chatted away amiably
about the advantages of a small
home as if there was nothing of
greater importance on her mind.
But my mother had her duty.
“Your mother’s death must
have been a great shock to you,”
she said, putting on her sym-
pathetic expression again.
“Oh, no, not really,” said
Alma. “God decided it was
time for her to go, and He just
came and took her.”
It was the. complete answer
which the pastor always used,
and Alma seemed quite satisfied
that there was no more to be
said. Then, before Mother could
follow up, Alma began to talk
about their girlhood days
together.
For the first time since we’d
seen her in town she was neither
irritable nor abnormal, but
talked eagerly to my mother in
the cordial tones of her letters.
Mother watched her and
listened and seemed to be con-
founded. She had come pre-
pared to see Alma either sitting
in triumph in her big house or
torn in agonies of repentance,
and she was neither. I could see
her deciding that the Devil had
got into Alma in a way so subtle
that it was impossible to do
anything about it.
Mother was incapable of
being deliberately rude to any-
one, but I could feel her
gradually withdrawing all her
sympathy from Alma, while
Alma become more and more
affectionate. As soon as she
decently could Mother got up to
make her farewells, showing a
certain amount of reserve, since
she was too honest not to show
her disapproval.
“Come again soon,” Alma'
urged her, with girlish eager-
ness. “We really must have a
good old heart-to-heart talk
about those grand old days.”
/~)N the way home Mother was
thoughtful for a long time.
Then she burst out, “Now that
she’s got everyone out of her
house she thinks that she’s going
to keep it clean and perfect for
ever; and that makes her
happy.”
It was too obscurely feminine
for me to comment on, so I
waited for the second and more
dramatic outbreak which I was
sure would be coming.
“She might think that she’s
got all she wants in this life,”
my mother said, with a little
grimness showing at the corners
of her mouth, “but I wouldn’t
like to exchange with her in the
next.”
And gentle, compassionate,
Christian creature that she was,
I still had a suspicion that she
felt a certain amount of gratifi-
cation in the prospect.
an accident at the seven-miles,
and we go out, and there’s two
things lying on the road.
“One of them’s a horse, and
he’s winded.
“The other’s a young bloke
out cold —he had concussion, but
he got all right in time.
“That was all there was. But
we knew the bloke, and knew he
rode a motorbike. There wasn’t
one on the road.
“There were skid-marks near
the horse, and then the road got
hard and you couldn’t see a
thing.
“We decided someone had
come along and pinched his bike,
but we had another look next
morning.
“We found the bike then —in
long grass off a bend two-
hundred yards up the road!
“He’d hit the horse, and the
bike had kept going, through
under its belly, and kept upright
till it went off the road at the
turn,”
❖ ❖ ❖
NORFOLK - STREET, New-
* town, Sydney, has a row of
back-fences on one side, and the
splintered palings of Newtown
Infants’ School on the other.
Maybe you'd call it a tough
district.
One Sunday afternoon the
back-fences were lined with
faces, all of them staring up at
the roof of the school opposite.
Other people stood on the foot-
path and a tribe of barefoot
kiddies yelled excitedly near the
police-truck.
Two sheets of iron on the roof
of the school lifted, and the white
face of a boy appeared. The
sergeant in the schoolyard yelled
at him: “Back ' you go! Get
back the way you got in.”
The boy said this was the way
he got in.
He pulled himself up out of
the iron roof and stood for a
moment on the eave, 60ft. sheer
above the asphalt of the school-
ground !
He walked up the steep iron
sheets to the peak of the roof,
about 10ft. higher still; then
turned and walked along the
peak for about 30yds.
Then he lowered himself over
the eave and groped for a rusty
drainpipe.
He slid down this for 15ft.
onto another sloping roof,
lowered himself over its eave and
slid down another 20ft. of sheer
rusting drainpipe to the ground.
The sergeant, walking him by
the elbow over to the truck,
locking him in, said: “You’re in
trouble now, you know.”
The boy said: “We didn’t do
nothing.”
A constable’s head appeared
on the second-floor of the school
and called: “There’s more of
them up there!”
Two more boys got up out of
the gap in the school’s iron
roof.
They followed the first boy’s
course, but halfway down the
final drainpipe the last and
youngest boy became scared.
“Where do you put your feet?”
he called in a little voice.
People in the gathered crowd
in Norfolk-street murmured.
The sergeant let the other boy
show him how to get down. Soon
the three of them were locked in
the truck.
They drove off, on the way to
the police-station.
The crowd formed little
knots along the footpath, then
dispersed. In five minutes there
wasn’t a person, young or old,
in the dusty street or along the
fences.
A reporter made a routine
phone-call later to see what the
boys had been charged with.
“Nothing,” said the detective.
“We’re satisfied they were just
bird-nesting like they said.
There’s nothing in it at all for
you blokes.”


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO CLIFFORD GEORGE GREEN late of
Petersham.— I TAKE NOTICE that SYLVIA
MYRTLE ADELE GREEN has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3051 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 7th day of February 1957 and obtain
a copy of the * Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO THOMAS HENRY HOUGHTON late
of Marrickville. —TAKE NOTICE that
YVONNE LOUISE HOUGHTON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 760 of 1956
on the ground that you have deserted her
without just cause or excuse and have left
her continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of Febru-
ary 1957 and obtain a copy of the Peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
WILSON & THOMSON, Solicitors, of 155
King Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO DAVID HENDERSON late of 64
Hillcrest Avenue Bankstown. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET JEAN HEN-
DERSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3684 of 1956 on the ground of
habitual drunkenness and cruelty for three
years and upwards and habitual drunken-
ness during three years and upwards and
failure to support If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearahce in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th February 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from ,7. BIRNIE JACKSON &
COATES, Solicitors, of 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friends
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
VICTORIA.
TO MR. A. W. DELAHUNTLY formerly of
Camp Street Chelsea in the State of Vic-
toria.—TAKE NOTICE that LORRAINE
MARY DELAIIUNTLY has commenced a
suit against you in this Honourable Court
and is applying for at dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground that you the above-
named Respondent have without just cause
or excuse wilfully deserted her and with-
out any such cause or excuse left her
continuously so deserted during three
years and upwards' And take notice that
if you intend to defend this suit you are
required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the office of the Prothonotary
of this Honourable Court at Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the State of
Victoria on or before the Fourth day of
January 1957 and further file an answer
in the said office on or before the
Fourteenth day of January 1957 AND
TAKE NOTICE that in default of so
doing the Court may proceed to hear this
suit in your absence AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that at the hearing of
this suit you as respondent herein may be
ordered to pay Petitioner’s costs of this
suit.—MOONEY SULLIVAN & O’HARA,
Solicitors, of 7 Centreway, Mordialloc, in
the State of Victoria, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, whose address *for service of any
documents is C/o MESSRS. McGINDLE
& HAINES, Solicitors, of 37 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the said State.
WOODLANDS, Harry.—Would any person
knowing the whereabouts of HARRY
WOODLANDS (brother of MAY COWAN,
deceased. JESSIE DUNWELL, deceased,
and MRS. JANET MILLARD), who left
Birmingham, England, in about 1907,
lived at Wagga Wagga, where he worked
as a carpenter and who, it is thought,
was a member of the A.I.F. in the First
World War, ask him, or his issue, to
communicate with TIETYENS ANGEL &
JACKLING, Solicitors, 509 Kiewa Street,
Albury, New South Wales?
SECRET RED TEXTBOOK
ON BRAINWASHING
Brainwashing (4/3 posted). Cold,
terrifying fact—a synthesis of
secret Communist textbook.
The Final Secret of Pearl Harbour
(40/- posted), by Admiral Theo-
bald. Foreword by Fleet Admiral
Halsey. Proves beyond doubt
that the attack bn Pearl Harbour
was planned in WASHINGTON!
U nconditional Hatred (43 / -
posted), by Captain R. Grenfell,
leading British naval strategist.
Shocking facts about Allied role in
World War Two.
Write for full list to:
THE HERITAGE BOOKSHOP,
Box 12261,, G.P.0., Melbourne.
British and U.S. publications not
available elsewhere in Australia.
Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
in Hie
“Christianity has often been described as a
religion of the book.” The force of this truth
impressed me as I was reading it. The phrase was
that of Mr. Colin Roberts, an authority on ancient
scrolls, in a 8.8. C. talk on the history of the Codex.
It comes to mind now, with reports that an
international committee’s translation of papers
found in 1945 near Luxor, the city of the Pharaohs,
may give us a fifth Gospel: according to St.
Thomas.
Ancient writings are a deeply instructive study.
The Greeks and Romans wrote on terracotta, on
tablets of waxed wood, or on rolls of parchment.
But early Christian texts unearthed in Egypt have
been in Codex form; that is to say, they are books
of folded sheets bound together, and inscribed on
papyrus made from reeds that bordered the Nile.
Archaeologists say that this distinctive treat-
ment of the written word became apparent in the
second century»after Our Lord. In that and
succeeding centuries, the works of the Evangelists
were being copied by scribes: the Christian
message was being carried across to Northern
Africa by missionaries and travellers.
Excavations of sites which the Greeks and
Romans occupied in Upper Egypt have given up
thousands of papyri in codex form; in Greek and
Latin; on pagan and Christian subjects.
For the Christians, the codex seems to have
been in deliberate use from the beginning. Scholars
have found that the teachings of Christ were
meticulously copied and circulated in book form
while the Jews were continuing to use rolls for their
sacred writings.
It remained for another age, with the invention
of printing, to open wider the door to Scripture and
to civil learning.
In our own times we are inclined to take all
this for granted. But there, at the dawn of
Christianity, was the key to literature as we know
it in the Bible and in books: we see it preserved
in fragments that proclaim a living Faith.
177 a
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
FOR CHRISTMAS GIFT-SUBSCRIPTIONS
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
months’ gift-subscription to “The Bulletin,” to be posted
weekly, as from the first issue after Christmas,
TO:
Address
FROM:
Address
Special hand-colored Australian Christmas Card
announcing my gift to be signed as from
{NOTE: These cards will be despatched to reach their destinations
about one week before Christmas, unless a definite date is requested.)
12 months £2/8/-; 6 months £l/4/6; 3 months 12/6.
These prices include postage and apply whether the subscription is
paid direct to “The Bulletin” or any newsagent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2/13/6 loreign £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copies of the following:
Rhodes’s Pageant of tbe Pacific &
vols.); Welsby’s Moreton Bay books,
Russell’s Genesis of Queensland-
-6428.
To sell Australiana and nautical
works. —6429.
Information Sought
A bibliography on the present-day
police-force in Britain ? ■ .
1 The British Police (1951), by J. M-
Hart; Guardians of the Queen s
Peace • The Development and WorK
of Britain’s Police (1953), by George
Howard; Crime and the Police
(1951) by Anthony Martienssen; A
Short History of the British Police
(1948), by Charles Reith; Scotland
Yard (1954), by Sir Harold Scott;
Police Administration (1952), by i-
Lewis Thomas. As well, there are
the following annual reports: Com-
missioner of the Police of the
Metropolis (for 1954; Cmd. 9471,
H.M.5.0.); H.M. Inspector of
Constabulary, Scotland (for 1954,
Cmd. 9493, H.M.S.O.)* H.M.
Inspectors of Constabulary—Counties
and Boroughs in England and Wales
(for 1953-54; H.M.5.0.); The Police
Service in Britain (Reference
Pamphlet R.F.P. 2695; COI).
* # * *
(1) Have any modern type-faces
been produced based on the manu-
scripts of the Bo&k of Kells or the
Lindisfarne Gospel? (2)
information on (a) the Book of Kells,
(b) the Lindisfarne Gospel ?
(1) Mr. B. Montgomery, Supervisor
of Printing Trades at the School of
Graphic Arts, Sydney Technical
College, states that he knows of no
attempt to produce such a type-face.
Neither of the books, he says, has a
style of lettering acceptable today,
and, though probably influencing the
development of lettering, neither
would be suitable as a model for a
modern type-face. (2) ( a ) From 789
to 804 a Northumbrian scholar,
Alcuin, was Abbot of St. Martin’s,
at Tours (France), and was asked by
Charlemagne to produce a more
readable style of lettering. Alcuin
accordingly developed the Carolingian
miniscule, the beginning of the lower-
case of today. It was thought
formerly that Alcuin had written
the Book of Kells, but later research
holds that some of it was written m
the 9th century in a monastery in
Kells (Ireland), founded by St.
Columba, and some in the monastery
on lona (Scotland) also founded by
St. Columba. It is, however, written
in Alcuin’s miniscule, and many con-
sider it the most beautiful manuscript-
work in existence. ( b ) The Lindisfarne
Gospel is believed to be dated about
700; it is written in a form of sharply
defined capitals mixed with a more
rounded form of capitals, or uncials.
(Around this time, Lindisfarne, not
Canterbury, was for 100 years or so
the centre of the Christian religion in
England.).
* * * * '
Is Eire a member of the British
Commonwealth of Nations ? If not,
when did it separate?
Eire is a sovereign independent
State; its Parliament exercises
jurisdiction in 26 of the 32 counties of
Ireland. In April, 1916, there was a
rising in the south of Ireland against
British rule, and a republic was pro-
claimed. In Jan., 1919, the Dail
Eireann (National Parliament)
reaffirmed Ireland’s independence.
However, in fact, Ireland was at this
time still part of the United Kingdom.
In 1920 an Act was passed by the
British Parliament under which
separate Parliaments were set-up for
“Southern Ireland” (the 26 counties)
and for “Northern Ireland” (six
counties). This scheme was accepted
by the six northern counties, but
rejected by the south. On Dec. 6,
1921, a treaty was signed by Britain
and Ireland by which Ireland accepted
Dominion status, subject to the right,
duly exercised, for Northern Ireland
to remain separate. This 'agreement
was ratified by all three Parliaments.
Subsequently the Constitutional links
between Britain and Eire were
gradually removed by the Dail, final
separation being brought about by
the Republic of Ireland Act 1948,
which came into operation on April
18, 1949. (Northern Ireland, of
course, remains part of the United
Kingdom. It has its own Parliament,
but also returns 12 members to the
House of Commons.)
Brief Answers
C.C.: For all practical purposes,
no difference at all. The term simply
means that the purchaser’s name is
inscribed in the register K.F.A. :
The report has not yet appeared; it
will be in a later issue C.K.: The
missing word: ‘‘other’’ P.C. W.:
Climax Baler Co., Ltd., Emerald- and
Burton-street, Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada R.C.W.: Warrawee
means “come here”... .M.D.: Angus
and Robertson advise they have in
stock Myer’s The Bulldog; price 375.
(post Is. 2d.) C.M.K.; The reply
to “Hist.” on the “Other Fellow’s
Mind” page (B. 28/11/’56) should
answer your query... .J.G.C,: Write
Burns Philp and Co., Ltd., 7 Bridge-
street, Sydney R.8.Y.: (1) The
Commonwealth leased the Cockatoo
Island Dockyard to private enter-
prise in 1933. A company was
formed by a few Sydney businessmen
under the name The Cockatoo Docks
and Engineering Co., Ltd. (later I ty.,
Ltd.). Sir Keith Smith, Vickers
representative in Australia, joined the
directorate in 1937. (2) In 1947
Vickers purchased 75 p.c. of the com-
pany’s shares and, one year later,
acquired the balance. The Cockatoo
Docks and Engineering Co. Pty.,
Ltd., became a Vickers subsidiary;
Sir Keith Smith became chairman of
directors; Engineer-Captain G. I. D.
Hutcheson became managing director.
K.T.: The Duke of Wellington
and the Earl of Winchelsea duelled on
Mar. 21, 1829... .0.P.: Bristol
Sycamore helicopters have been m
use by the R.A.N. since Jan., 1953.
R.B.G.: Adolf Hitler became
Chancellor of Germany on Jan. 30,
1933 E.W.D.: The earliest written
schemes extant of the catechisms are
those of Kero of St. Gall (Bth
century) and Otfried of Weissenburg
(9th century) C.P.: Corbndge is a
town in Northumberland, England,
on the Tyne, 16 miles west of New-
castle. It has a Roman station
(Corstopitum) ancf a 17th-century
bridge.. . .J.G.H.: In the 1947
Stawell Gift A. C. Martin (from
4+yds). and D. J. Gardner (Byds.)
dead-heated in 11 14/16sec. Martin
won the run-off in 12 6/16sec
G.H.T.: The A.B.C. has in its His-
torical Recordings Library a collec-
tion of the sort of speeches to which
you refer, and there is also a collec-
tion in the National Library at Can-
berra. These collections, however, are
preserved for archival purposes or for
use in historical documentaries and
are not available for general audition.
F.R.A.: The following technical
papers may be obtained from the
South Pacific Commission, Noumea,
New Caledonia, or Box 5254 G.P.0.,
Sydney: “A Bibliography of Tropical
Housing”; “Reclamation of Tidal
Mud Flats in Tonga” (by W. Straat-
mans, Head of the Department of
Agriculture, Nuku’alofa, Tonga);
Western Samoa —“An Economic
Survey” (by V. D. Stace).
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor ; they
will, be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
R.M.8.: We must have a little of
your
J.P.O’D.: Not at all bad for an
“Awake, Australia! ” poem
L.R.: We prefer the bust
They start promisingly but don’t
arrive N.J.W.: “The Creek”
nearest but too rough L.C.S.: A
nice small impression and, oddly,
none the worse for the strange
“OOO” at the end of every stanza.
N.J.W.: So far as memory
serves you are the first poet ever to
rhyme “trollop” with “gallop.” The
poem, all the same, trots 0ff....
E.A.: Motoring poem needs so many
repairs that you’d better trade it in
for a new one... .K.R.R.: Not
enough point; and rhymes such as
“walls-fall” • and “floats-creosote”
look # merely inefficient V.J.S.:
Touches of a genuine bush-ballad
style; but too many rough patches
and not enough story J.V.: Too
jaunty and jingly. Might make a
song J.C.H.: Still a bit wordy,
and glum J.O’G.: Choruses flat.
0.0.: Really the best thing you
can do with that snake-poem is put
it on an ant-heap... .V.D.W.: Buy
a typewriter with the proceeds of
your poetry; if any Q.N.: “Fat”
thin... .G.D.L.: Chuck it... .1.1. T.:
“Corn” is.
DIRGE TO GINGER MY DOGGIE
Whence away has my pal been tempted,
tho’ mine to call,
Does he remember his fair-haired play-
mate —an’ all,
And if I did’st kneel and pray o’ a-mght
by my bedside,
Would’st he who’st taken my gmger-
coated pet an’ kept him betimes—
Lend him back if only littlest whiles,
that I may’st know he wears
His same old doggie-smile—for which I d
cared, lov’d —and “He” now shares- —
0 Ginger dog a-lack-a-day. Come home
boy:
Oh come!
When to our farm little Helen does come,
and dear wee Rhonda,
They miss happy romps with their tail-
less friend —the doggy wonder
And widened their eyes, roll’d ’em —when
told a truck wheel a-severed
Your tail, and the /log-doctor tidied it
whils’t (you were) under his needle
Asleep: making you doubly precious—
tvw> guineas it cost Daddy!
Twice as wide your smile after an’ miss
it does your dear laddie . . .
O Ginger dog a-laek-a-day! Come home
boy.
Oh come!
You followed at dusk-fall our lad Stan,
pursued in sportive mood
His bike, to hills above the glade —where
is, a “poison” notice, ’tis understood:
Home, at midnight—in his wakened
dreamings he’d thought to hear, woe-
ful
Howlings, but drowsily turning heavily
sleeping . . . early rising remorseful
Finding no ginger-haired canine comrade
accompanying herding
Of milkers. If not a-lying ’neath limpid
swamp heed my keening in this word-
ing—
O Ginger dog a-lack-a-day. Come home
boy
Oh come!


Under test conditions
lambs dropped by
ewes grazing on unim-
proved natural pas-
tures were nearly
2 lbs. heavier than
those from ewes fat-
tened on green lucerne
and lucerne hay.
Moreover, although
the over-fat ewes cut
more wool this advan-
tage was not enough
to compensate for the
extra feed given to
them. Tests also show
that lambs marked and
tailed by Elastrator
Rubber Rings are
better protected
against fly-strike and
have better resistance
to shock and set-back.
RIVERDELL FLATS
Old Burleigh Road,
BROAD BEACH,
Surfer’s Paradise, Q’land.
NEW ULTRA MODERN FUR-
NISHED FLATS TO LET, for
long or short periods. Every
Comfort,’ including Refrigeration,
Hot and Cold Water, Wall-to-
Wall Carpets and Inner-spring
Mattresses throughout. Close to
Surf (patrolled beach). Near
Lennon’s New Hotel. For ideal
holiday accommodation, write
now to Resident Proprietors.
ARTS
Circular Charts for all type*
of Recording Instruments
ter any dais of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACiMI# O'SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
UrSAQHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
mm
m '
"V '
mmmm
mAmrimk
SttNBGflsNM i wmSm
:
-■4-
■
m:
... ! •
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Fiye Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHrS" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
SANTA GERTRUDIS
HTHE fifth annual Santa
Gertrudis bull-sale at Risdon,
Warwick (Q.), was a record-
breaker. In less than an hour,
12 bulls had been sold for a
total of 20,680gn5. This worked
out at an average of 1723|gns.,
as compared with 933 j last year
and 11831 in 1954.
Highest price was a bid by the
Peel River Land and Mineral
Co., Goonoo Goonoo, Tam-
worth ; paid for Risdon Broad-
caster, a 20-month-old bull in
top condition. Broadcaster was
a champion at the last Brisbane
Exhibition. His sire is Coz
(imp., U.S.A.) and the dam
Con No. 204 (imp., U.S.A.).
This bull had been built up
for the Exhibition, and his daily
weight-gains under the 77-days
test feed-trial were 2.41 b., a
figure below that of other bulls
that had not been prepared in
the same way for the same
Exhibition. Broadcaster weighed
17001 b. when submitted to
auction.
J. G. Walker, Cumberland,
Longreach, paid the second-
highest price of 2300gns. for
Risdon Budget. This bull, born
in December, 1954, weighed
17081 b. at time of selling.
Two bulls are going to Alice
Springs. They were purchased
by Webb Bros., who intend
using them on , the property ■
which normally carries 8000 to
9000 breeders in a flush season.
The bulls —Risdon Beau Geste
and Risdon Barrister brought
1600gns. and 1780gns. respec-
tively. They will reach Alice
Springs by way of Wallangarra,
Broken Hill and Quorn.
H. Rea, Charters Towers, paid
1500gns. for Risdon Brigadier.
Mr. Rea has a herd of Zebu
cattle, and his; intention is to
cross them with the Santa
Gertrudis.
Risdon Brilliant, calved
November, 1954, was bought for
1350gns. by D. J. and F.
Whittaker, Broadmeadows, Glen
Innes. Hendersen and Reid,
Jedburgh, Longreach, bid
I2'sogns. for Risdon Bandbox, a
23-month-old bull of excellent
type.
A “crowd shy” 22-month-old
bull, Risdon Boom, brought
1400gns., and goes to H. Innes’s
property at Gin Gin. The
bidding took place in the ring,
with the animal tethered in his
stall. Although “crowd shy” the
bull shows plenty of paddock
temperament and is of excellent
conformation and type.
“Now try the more complicated slip-knot.”
A new buyer at Risdon sales,
R. Appel, Mimosa, Gayndah,
paid 1250gnsi. fosr Risdonj
Broadside, a bull born in
January, 1955.
H. W. Uphill, Keadool,
Ulamambri, purchased Risdon
Banker for 2150gns. and the Peel
River Land and Mineral
Company paid 2200gns. for
Risdon Beacon.
The first bull auctioned,
Risdon Banjo, brought 1400gns.
and went to H. Bassingthwaite,
Yarrawonga, Wallumbilla.
In a 77-day feeding-trial
supervised by the Department of
Agriculture and Stock, daily
weight-gains were:
Bull Total Increase Daily
weight in 77 days Gain
Banjo .. 1566 Ib. 3261 b. 4.21 b.
Broadside .. 1504 „ 274 „ 3.6 „
Beacon .... 1440 „ 200 ~ 2.6 „
Banker .... 1712 „ 252 „ 3.3 „
Broadcaster 1700 „ 186 ~ 2.4 „
Brilliant .. 1632 „ 250 „ 3.3 „
Bandbox .. 1506 „ 266 „ 3.5 „
Brigadier .. 1332 „ 306 ~ 4.0 „
Boom .. .. 1452 „ 266 „ 3.5 „
Budget .... 1708 „ 318 „ 4.1 „
Beau Geste 1440 „ 302 ~ 3.9 „
Barrister . . 1412,, 294 „ 3.8 „
At the close of the sale, Sir
Rupert Clarke, managing-
director of King Ranch (Aust.)
Pty., Ltd., pointed out the record
prices paid for the bulls, and that
75 per cent, of the animals were
bought by people who had
purchased bulls at earlier Risdon
sales. He added that the
company was going ahead with
the breed. Permission was being
sought for the introduction of a
further 100 animals from
America. A shipment of 50 was
due to arrive shortly.
King Ranch, he said, intended
opening anothef Santa Gertrudis
stud near Townsville, in associ-
ation with Swifts Australian Co.
Pty., Ltd.
The Santa Gertrudis is now an
established breed in the Aus-
tralian cattle-industry and over
55 studmasters, ranging from
New Guinea to Victoria and
Western Australia, are devoting
their time to building-up Santa
Gertrudis herds.
The A.B.C. “shot” all aspects
of the sale and used the scenes
in the programme through TV-
station ABN. *
Agricola.
Erosion
“Coimbo”: Record stock-
numbers in Australia mean that
more hooves than ever are likely
to pound bare soil into dust this
summer. Fortunately, the wet
winter stimulated plenty of
vegetative cover over most of the
Commonwealth; even so, bare
soil on fallows, overgrazed areas,
sheep-tracks and -camps, and
places where stock are handfed,
are open to erosion.
Even a small bare area is a
nucleus for erosion unless it is
protected. At least one farmer
in the Victorian Mallee keeps a
watch for tracks which sheep
make, and diverts the mob if the
pathway is getting liable to
erode.
If such areas can be fenced
and sown-down to oats aftlr an
early autumn “break” they
develop a protective coyer
against erosion. Fallows which
are not protected by cover-
crops can be ridged when wet,
to reduce the danger of wind-
storms. The sharp ridges reduce
the wind-velocity and prevent
large areas being swept away
during storms.
Handfeeding should be done
on hard ground, and feeders
moved regularly when there is
much evidence of the land
scouring.
The Avocado
“E.E.G.” (Q.): The avocado-
pear has become an increasingly
popular fruit in post-war years.
The ornamental shrub-type
tree grows to approximately
30ft., and on wind-sheltered
slopes on most of the coastal
strip north from Brisbane condi-
tions are just about ideal for it.
With the fruit's increasing
popularity, it has a bright future
in Queensland and could possibly
extend into N.S.W
In the event of overproduction
(not likely for at least eight to
10 years) there would still be
a good chance of survival for
this comparatively recent
industry, as the fruit has a very
high oil-content. Growers, in
fact, already have this oil-
extraction from the fruit .in
mind.
A warning note is that losses
of the grafted tree at planting-
time can be heavy unless
planting-methods are right. Trees
grown in kero.-tins are best for
transplanting. The tin can be
cut where desired, placed in the
prepared planting-hole, then
pulled away, leaving the tree
with soil intact around the roots
ready to commence growing
without the roots having been
disturbed.
It is most importarit to have
a hessian covering over the
transplanted tree to stop sun-
burning of the tender bark of the
almost-leafless plant.
Also, excessive watering of
the young trees must be avoided ;
they should be planted in well-
drained soils (and where they’re
protected from wind). They’re
susceptible to “wet feet.”
One of the best croppers and
most popular of the many
varieties is the Fuerte, which
bears a green pear-shaped fruit
with a high oil-content. (This
variety has been 1 selling on the
Sydney market at 40s. to 50s.
a half-bushel case, compared
with 20s. to 30s. for others.)
The Anaheim, Nabal, Edranol,
Benik, Hass and Dickinson are
all good eating-varieties.
Seedlings (it should be said)
mostly produce poor - quality
fruit, with a large seed, and with
only a thin portion of flesh,
which is often stringy.
Growers are not yet producing
enough of the fruit to meet the
demand.
Rich in vitamins, and having
a pleasing nutty flavor, the
avocado-pear is really delicious
when spread butter-thickness on
bread-and-butter, adding a little
salt and pepper. There are,
however, many other enjoyable
ways of eating this fruit.
Murphies
“Spinner”: This primary
producing can have its surprises.
Take what’s happened at Broad-
marsh, in southern Tassie.
A group of raw, amateur
farmers has there produced one
of the best crops of murphies in
the district. The group consisted
of Christian Brothers and
pupils from St. Virgil’s College
at Hobart.
As a donation to the college’s
building-fund an ex-pupil offered
them the use of 10' acres of his
farm if they were prepared to
work it themselves under his
supervision. It was considered
that with a fair harvest they
would have sufficient to market
some for cash.
At the worst they would obtain
a supply for their own use.
The final result was that they
sold £4OOO-worth and still were
able to keep £5OO-worth for their
own use!
Doing Without Soil
“M.”: Nothing new, of course,
in the idea of growing things
without soil. It has been an aim
of curious experimenters for at
least 100 years, and maybe a lot
longer than that. Nor is it news
—to those interested in the idea
—that sundry methods have been
for some time now well past the
experimental stage.
What is fairly new, in
Australia, is that the main
element of a recognised most
successful method is now on the
market here. This is processed
vermiculite, a mineral found in
a fair number of countries
(including Australia) in varying
degrees of quantity and quality.
The world’s biggest mine of the
best quality is in South Africa,
from where our raw-material
supplies are now coming, to be
processed here for sale over the
counter.
From South Africa also comes
the principal book sold here on
the subject: Growing Plants
Without Soil, by Maxwell Bentley
(published by Hydro-chemical
Industries, Johannesburg). This
“bible” of the hobby (as it will
be for many) or industry (as it
is, in a substantial way* in other
parts; notably America) is also
not “new”: it was printed last
year, and has been on sale here,
since. Neither is it cheap; but
there’s a pointer to the interest in
the subject in the fact that
Angus and Robertson can report
a sale of over a couple of hundred
copies— at £5 7s. 6d. a time.
And this, though, as stated, the
principal growing-element it
advocates has not till lately been
readily available here.
The Australian position now
appears to be that the processing
of the imported vermiculite is
being done by more than one
concern, and going ahead well;
with reported successful begin-
nings in the use of their product
on a commercial scale. As well,
there are reported increasing


Best
Mineral
Supplement
&
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65% tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Oa, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
&M-
S»»*
tViort 1 '
*DlU''sCL&'oS*
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
Any particulars gladly supplied—
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: GJjO Bos JSB3,
SYDNEY • S.P.O. Box 4058. MELBOURNE • 6P.0.
Box 712 F. ADELAIDE • 6J>.O. Box 758 K. BRISBANE
• G.P.O Box 588. PERTH.
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
INSURANCE —for your protection —-
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 1 (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
pi (L mi fkat iV right for the
■ja
I
mM'm climate
/
yd
sm
NEW CONTOUR
CORRUGATED “FIBROLITE”
ASBESTOS-CEMENT SHEETS < Re &’ d - Trade Mark)
Look ahead! Save worries in later years Specify a Hardie’s “ Fibrolite” New
Contour Corrugated Roof—the roof that improves with age. Right for the
Australian climate, New Contour Corrugated Asbestos-Cement Sheets are sea-air
proof, rust-proof and minimise condensation. A specially designed corrugation for
3* side lap fixing offers you a saving of approximately 10% in the cost of roofing.
In addition, the neat, weathertight laps ensure enhanced appearance and maximum
weather protection. Write today for further information on the roof that is
economical, durable and so attractive. “Cut your roofing overhead with Hardie’s
New Contour Corrugated “ Fibrolite ” Asbestos-Cement Sheets.
POST THIS COUPON NOW!
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York and Barrack Streets
Sydney. •
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King St
Please send me illustrated leaflet for “FIBRQLITE'
Corrugated Roofing FREE and POST FREE.
NAME
ADDRESS
CH4I/4tS/B
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
unexpectedly nevertheless —in 3min.
41.2 sec. (Olympic record).
The marathon was won by French-
Algerian Alain Mimoun, runner-up in
the last two Olympic marathons (time,
2hrs. 25min.). Zatopek, ’52 champion,
came in sixth.
Other gold-medals—men’s 4 x 100-
metres relay, won by U.S.A. in
Olympic 'and world-record time
(39.55ec.); men’s 4 x 400-metres relay,
also won by U.S.A., with Australia
second (3min. 4.8 sec. —its first-ever-
relay medal); women’s high-jump, M.
McDaniel, of U.S.A. (sft. 9iin.—
Olympic and world-record).
Of the boxers, T. Spinks (Britain)
won the flyweight, W. Behrendt (Ger-
many) the bantamweight, V. Safronov
(Russia) the featherweight, R.
McTaggart (Britain) lightweight, V.
Enguibarian (Russia) light-welter-
weight, N. Linca (Rumania) welter-
weight—Australia’s Kevin Hogarth,
finishing equal third in the welter, did
best of the local boxers —L. Papp
(Hungary) light-middleweight his
third Olympic gold-medal, G.
Chatkov (Russia) middleweight, J.
Boyd (U.S.A.) light-heavyweight and
P. Rademacher (U.S.A.) the
heavyweight.
Wrestling M. Tzalkalmanidze
(Russia) won the flyweight, M.
Jagistanli (Turkey) bantamweight, S.
Sasahara (Japan) featherweight, E.
Habibi (Iran) lightweight, M. Ikeda
(Japan) welterweight, N. Nikolov
(Bulgaria) middleweight, G. lakhti
(Iran) light-heavyweight and H.
Kaplan (Turkey) heavyweight.
W. Yorzyk (U.S.A.), world record-
holder, won the 200-metre butterfly
in 2min. 19.3 sec. Another American,
Clotworthy, won the springboard-
diving. „
U.S.A., undefeated, won the basket-
ball, Carlo Pavesi (Italy) the
individual epee (with two Italians in
the places), another Italian, G.
Rossini, won the clay-pigeon title and
V. Borissov, of Russia, won the 300-
metres free rifle.
Among the canoers the Swede
Fredriksson again won, the kayak-
singles 1000-metres —his third succes-
sive gold-medal in this event, and his
fifth gold-medal all told; L. Rottman
(Rumania) also got his second gold-
medal for this Games, in the
Canadian singles, 1000-metres;
Rumania won the Canadian pairs and
Germany the kayak-pairs (both also
of 1000-metres).
Anyway, they’ve got through
these Olympics—so far —without
an atom-bomb competition . . .
touch wood.
4* 4-
Melbourne’s Olympic Year
Trotting Cdrnival concluded on
Saturday night with the finals
of the Olympic Year Cup and
Carnival Handicap. Local pacer
Grand Monarch defeated local
mare Argent and S.A. stepper
Stuart Earl in the Cup. He’s one
of the most promising horses
about.
N.S.W. pacer Sky High raced
away with the Carnival
Handicap, aided by the reins-
manship of one of Australia’s
best drivers, Frank Kersley. Sky
High’s potential is as high as the
sky: he takes a grip on the bit,
and from there on might run
anything; but he has a
tendency to go sore, and always
races tightly bandaged. Victorian
Shanagolden was runner-up;
S.A. four-year-old Chief Spring,
third.
* * *
After Sydney trainer Percy
Gutteridge's experience with the
four-year-old Masthead mare
Cotton maybe other mentors will
experiment with sprinters over
middle - distances, especially
failures over the shorter trips.'
Cotton, regarded until a week or
so ago as essentially a sprinter,
was tried at a middle-distance
(lOi furlongs) at Warwick Farm
a week or so back; she chased
the more speedy Belbeiys to the
straight, then faded to third
place behind Beaupa and Bel-
beiys. Tried again, Cotton had
no opponent capable of going
with her in the A.J.C. Paddock
Handicap (1| mile). She was
being eased-up at the finish to
win by eight lengths.
It’s really not much use staging
a hooting demonstration against
leading jockey Jack Thompson.
He’s too old in the head for that
sort of thing to trouble him.
That was the impression gained
after he was the target in a hos-
tile outburst following the defeat
of odds-on favorite Aboukir in
the Rand wick Malabar Handi-
cap. Earlier, Thompson’s win
on Queen’s Realm also caused a
small explosion among those
who missed winning on the race.
Thus he was hooted for winning
and also for losing, and even
when strongly fancied Cotton
won the main event there was
hooting mixed with the cheers.
Experience of a race may
make all the difference to a two-
year-old’s run with the colors
up. This may have had a bit to.
do with the defeat of Hurst in
the Juvenile Stakes at Randwick.
Owned by Stan Wootton and
trained by M. McCarten, Hurst,
a Bob Cherry two-year-old, was
confidently backed. Third or
fourth most of the way, he, how-
ever, never threatened danger
and finished fourth to Turkestatf,
who won his second race on end.
Owner W. R. Kemball, who
has spent many thousands buy-
ing horses, and won many
thousands in stakes, supplied the
first two placegetters in the
Moonee Valley First Moreland
Handicap for two-year-olds.
Both are New Zealand-bred, and
are by imported Faux Tirage.
The Moonee winner, Tirage,
started at odds-on; her stable-
mate, Altana, was a 10-to-l
chance. Sea Anemone (imp.),
dam of the winner, is by Blue
Peter from Royal Bouquet by
Royal Dancer.
* * *
At 21, negro Floyd Patterson
became the youngest world
heavyweight champ, ever when
in Chicago on Saturday he
carved Archie Moore to the .
canvas for the count in the fifth
round. Moore, who was throw-
ing leather before Patterson was
born, soon petered under the
flaying fists of his . young
opponent. Patterson took-out the
middleweight division at the
1952'Helsinki Olympics, and in.
32 subsequent pro. fights has had
31 victories. A lightnihg-fast
puncher, he’s already being
compared with Joe Louis.
numbers of home growers,
doing their growing—very satis-
factory bumper harvests of such
vegetable-crops as potatoes,
beans, tomatoes, lettuce and so
forth, and also flowers—in
comparatively small concrete
troughs (or “tanks” as the book
calls them), or in kero.-tins, oil-
drums and the like.
Bentley warns, more than once,
against accepting some of the
exaggerated claims that have
been made>> for the method, but
what his book sets forth, in
pictures and story, will be found
striking and attractive enough.
Very briefly, in the sketchiest
general terms, the processing (in
a furnace at a temperature in the
region of 2000 deg. F.) “blows
out” the mineral, so that what
you buy is a light, chemically
inert, sterile material with
remarkable water - holding
properties (the material is used
in industry for insulation).
The growing-tanks are of a
convenient-working size (4ft.
wide by any desired length for
commercial purposes, or the size
of handy garden-beds for average
use). Each has its outlet-
pipe for draining-off surplus
moisture. Depth of tank
recommended is 9in. (for most
things; deeper for potatoes):
thin layer of gravel, • thin layer
of sand, and then the processed
vermiculite to within an inch of
the top.
The other main element is a
nutrient solution which feeds the
growth. The bed-material is good
for crop after crop, continuously:
in fact, the essence of the method
is to keep production con-
tinuously going.
Details of the “how” of the
whole method are set forth in
Bentley’s book scientifically, but
all very clear and simple to
follow: he makes it easier still
by indicating the essential
chapters, and the ones that can
be skipped. The whole method
he describes as “simple to
operate by anyone with a
commonsense knowledge of
gardening.”
The book is lavishly illustrated
with a remarkable collection of
photographs, many of them in
color, and most of them
American. Some of them suggest
that the American big-scale com-
mercial undertakings depicted
are for luxury markets, and some
suggest scientific growing and
growers with lots of time and
don’t spare the expense. But
many others, and the chapters
too, are everyday things, prac-
tical and down-to-earth. Such as
tomatoes in almost incredible
profusion; climbing-beans so
heavily laden that they break
down their supports ; lettuce the
mere 26in. across.
Largest project in the world
(as cited) is the one established
by the Americans in Japan, to
produce good—and disease-free
—vegetables for the troops in as
quick time, as possible. It
covers about 80 acres, mostly in
the open, but including a glass-
house or two —one of these the
world’s largest: it covers 2J2,000
square-feet (about five acres).-
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(25/11/’56)
General rains above average are indicated in N.S.W.
during December, with possibility of heavy falls m ®
eastern half of the State. However, the position wi epeii
to a large extent on sunspot-activity during the nex or
night, and at present this is low. . , .
Queensland should receive general rams during
December, with the heaviest falls occurring on the nor ern
coast and the Peninsula and part tof the southern coas ,
otherwise some of southern Queensland may have on y
moderate rains. ,
In Victoria light to moderate, patchy rains should occur
during December, with wide extremes ip temperature.
S.A. should have general rains above normal during
December, with heavy falls in the interior and in Centra
Australia. South-east and west coast confined to light ram.
In W.A. the Kimberleys, Fortescue and De Grey areas
should receive good falls during December; poor rainfall in
the balance of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Road Safety
I see that H. King, of the N.S.W.
Technical Education Department, has
propounded a scheme of driver-education
for all school-pupils of legal age to drive.
The course recommended is a mixture of
training in driving, traffic-regulations,
road-safety, courtesy, plus an indefinite
course of psychological treatment and
testing of each pupil-driver.
The scheme is psychologically unsound
and economically impracticable.
Here is the condensed result of over
30 years’ study and supervision of men
and jobs from the angles of industrial
medicine and vocational training:
The men and jobs concerned included
ship’s officers, gun-crews and boat-crews,
helmsmen and dockyard-maties
of many kinds ; riggers and high-building
constructors; drivers of cars, trucks,
graders and tractors; timbergetters,
winchmen, shearers and enginedrivers;
and surgeons, hospital staffs and a host
of others.
Before any of these can be regarded as
even theoretically safe operatives—safe
for themselves and others—they must
undergo periods of specific training of
anything from 800 to 4000 hours, plus
one to 10 years of living with the chosen
vocatiqp. For a car-driver I set the
minimum times at 500 hours and two
years, or 7000 miles. Even then the
operatives drowse, get drunk, make silly
mistakes or errors of judgment, or become
overconfident. Remember, this is not a
matter of just driving a car ; it is a matter
of attaining Mr. King’s target of auto-
matic and instinctive driving that will be
permanently safe.
Mr. King’s target is unattainable in all
but a few cases. Twenty per cent, of
drivers will not need or benefit by the
training. They are already safety-first
types. Ten per cent, will benefit and be
converted from bad to good drivers. At
best the rest will remain risky types; at
worst, more dangerous than ever, as they
will use the special course as an excuse
for flash driving.
The things that keep a man in a risky
vocation relatively'safe are not his train-
ing so much as supervision by his
colleagues, an official organisation or a
boss. Other considerable factors are pro-
fessional pride and penalties for negli-
gence or lack of skill.
With a motorist the boss is himself;
professional pride becomes pride in flash
driving ; the only supervisory organisation
is a handicapped police-force; and
penalties are negligible with’our lenient
sentences and cover-all insurance-
policies.
In any case, education does not “stick”
to anything like the extent that Mr. King
seems to expect. How many of us retain
a third of our school-learning for 10 years
after leaving school?
As to expense, at least 20,000 lads
attain the legal age for driving each year
in N.S.W. The period of training is 500
hours at least. There are only 240 days
of eight hours each in a New South Wales
working-year (less for most teachers).
This means that each driver-teacher could
train less than four lads per year. So the
scheme would require 4000 driver-
teachers !
In car-driving the basic psychological
facts are: Every machine carries the
obligation of care and restraint in its use
—i.e., it requires strict discipline of its
user. In the long run all discipline depends
on punishment, automatic or penal, for
those who break the rules. A policy of
saying “Naughty, naughty!” or “Please
don’t,” or of detailed education, may
serve for a few minor first-offenders, but
there will always remain a lot of hard-
case offenders who need to be taught with
tears.
The least tearful method of dealing with
proven dangerous drivers is that adopted
by Governor Ribicoff of Connecticut,
U.S.A. He observed that drivers who
would not go slow to save their lives, or
those of others, would do so to save their
licences. He stiffened the morale of his
magistrates and police and applied the
law without fear or favor. The law was:
Maximum speed, 55 m.p.h.; first offence,
suspension of licence for a month ; second
offence, two months ; third offence, any-
thing up to permanent suspension.
Ribicoff met a lot of antagonism,
especially from “fixers” and their clients,
but that soon weakened when people
realised that his administration was im-
partial and firm, and was getting results.
In six months the road-toll had dropped
by 15 per cent, despite a big increase in
registrations and road-use.
In Australia we need similar firm and
impartial administration of our traffic-
laws and fewer patent solutions for the
road-toll problem. There should be no
relaxing of sentences for guilty drivers
who plead “You are taking away my job”
when licences are suspended. The proper
reply to that is, “If you risk your licence
for speed you do not deserve one. Get
another job.”—T. K. 11l (Q.).
Suez and Nasser
Some who oppose Nasser’s seizure of
the Suez Canal have objected, to the
Anglo-French action in Egypt on the
ground that, in any international dispute,
force, or even the threat of force, should
not be resorted to unless authorised by
U.N.—that was the attitude taken by
the British Leader of the Opposition.
It is a completely unrealistic attitude
in relation to a ruler of Nasser’s stamp.
Experience has shown that the U.N.,
notorious for lack of unity, will not take
action against any offender with sympa-
thisers among the member-States.
Virtually any Government that flouts
international law is, for various reasons,
assured of sufficient support within U.N.
to prevent that body taking effective
action.
Negotiation with a leader like Nasser
is impossible unless the other party holds
the possibility of ultimate’resort to force
in reserve. Nasser is neither a sovereign,
with the prestige of an ancient monarchy
behind him, nor a famous soldier like
Eisenhower, Pilsudski or Kemal, held in
“ Couldn't you forget your principles and draw some Christmas-cards ,
Elwyn? We cant afford to buy them.”
high esteem by a large section of his
countrymen. He is not even the leader
of a national political party, like Eden or
Menzies. He was one of a clique of junior
officers who planned a coup d’etat against
Farouk and persuaded a popular general,
Neguib, to be their nominal leader in
order to win public support.
When Neguib showed himself too-
inclined to moderation he was deposed
and Nasser took his place. Nasser has no
devoted following in Egypt, and even
among the camarilla of officers that backs
him there are jealous rivals prepared to
turn on him the moment he makes a
serious mistake. A State head in such a
situation cannot be reasonable, even
though aware that it is to the advantage
of his country to be so.
Cavour’s dictum “You can do every-
thing with bayonets except sit on them”
“ Psst! Nylons!”
applies with particular force to one in
Nasser’s situation. To maintain himself
in power such a ruler must win spec-
tacular successes, military or diplomatic,
and his policy is therefore bound to be
adventurous and intransigent. Sooner or
later he will find himself in serious
trouble.— Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Child Endowment
Child-endowment isn’t intended “to
help a child to further schooling or ease
the lean years of apprenticeship” (B.
21/11/ ’56). It may be used for either of
those purposes, but the main idea behind
it is to subsidise the family-man’s wages
in accordance with his additional responsi-
bilities.
Rightly, the Government doesn’t attach
any strings to the payment. It is hard to
see how it could. I imagine that the
originators of the scheme would be per-
fectly satisfied seeing Mum and Dad on
endowment-day paying the credit-
manager and the grocer, having the tele-
phone installed or even buying a charity-
button. They fully intended that there
should be some parity in purchasing-
power between the man with children and
the man who has none. Incidentally, the
latter receives at least the basic wage,
which is based on the needs of a man, his
wife and one child.
My complaint about endowment is
that the rates for other than the first
three children are not high enough. As
a teacher in a country area where
families are large and wages comparatively
low, I can see every justification for
increasing the rate for the fourth and
every subsequent child. There is poverty
about in - these days of prosperity—it is
expressed in hand-me-down suits, no
overcoats, sandshoes, cut-lunches without
fruit, and inferiority - complexes.—
Peekay (N.S.W.).
Exporting Electricity
Now that the Atlantic has been suc-
cessfully spanned by a telephone-cable,
the next move of the cable-layers is for
a much shorter but equally interesting
effort across the narrow English Channel
to link the electricity-systems of Britain
and France. The special cable will carry
both positive and negative lines v(ithin a
single casing, but the revolutionary thing
about the project is that the transmission
will be by means of direct current at
200,000 volts, the usual alternating current
being transformed to d.c. at one side and
back to a.c. at the other. The process
is fully reversible, so that current can
flow both ways.
There are several benefits to be derived
from the scheme. At times when the
French hydro-plants have more potential
power than French capacity can absorb,
instead of allowing much water to run
to waste over the spillways, the generators
will be run at maximum output and the
surplus power exported to Britain. When
the levels of the dams fall, the process
can be reversed and the loan paid back
from British thermal (or possibly
nuclear) production. In ordinary day-to-
day operation Britain will borrow from
the hydroelectric system to meet her
peak-loads, and then pay back during the
slack periods.
This may seen slightly haywire to a
layman, but it is the peak-demand which
fixes the number of power-stations
required, and the slack period which has
a tremendously adverse effect on the
overall efficiency of generation. Smooth-
ing-out the peaks will have a most
advantageous result.
I don’t know whether there’s much
scope for this sort of thing in Australia,
but the time could come when power
generated in New Guinea could be used
well down the Queensland coast. —
Transporticus (Singapore).
“Sound Judgment”
“S.C.M.” implies that the general run
of voters can’t be trusted to give sound
judgment (B. 14/11/’56), but is it valid
to regard a group of credulous trade-
unionists as the general run of voters?
Before such a mob the militant union-
organiser’s task was to provide them with
reasons for the feelings they already had
about Mr. Menzies. If he had said
nothing about Mr. Menzies their feelings
would still have been the same and,
politically, they would have acted the
same as they did after hearing his speech.
Fortunately, under our party-system
credulous unionists don’t exert as much
weight as they do in the economic sphere.
While they may contribute time, money
and energy to their party, they never
really bring a Government down or put
one into office. That privilege is reserved
for the minority who take their politics
as they find them and vote accordingly.
When these people cease to think, then
we should worry. During 50-odd years of
Fedetal politics I think they have mani-
fested pretty sound judgment. — Wrigleys
(N.S.W.).
♦
Relatively few people take a keen
interest in politics as such.. Many vote
for a particular party because it has been
their family custom to do so, or because
they think it favors their class or economic
interests.
Most Australian voters are very con-
sistent in political allegiance. Elections
—State and Federal —are commonly
decided by a very small minority. This
floating- vote rarely reaches 10 per cent.,
and is often as low as three or four per
cent. This section is not, for the most
part, composed of independent-minded
persons with keen and critical interest in
political questions. The mass of them have
no strong convictions and put personal
advantage before national welfare.
They are generally roused by appeals to
fear, greed or envy, and can be hood-
winked by subtle but mendacious
propaganda.— Kanimbla (N.S.W.).


Crime and Punishment
Press-reports on crime over recent
years show remarkable judicial leniency
in criminal cases. From juvenile delin-
quency to real murder, many judges and
juries appear to have a very soft spot for
the criminal. Rather than real punish-
ment, preference is often shown for
release on bonds, even in some serious
cases.
In a country where regard for the law
is far from strong there may be some
psychological reason to account for this
legal sympathy for the evildoer —perhaps
it is a state of mind reaching back to the
foundation of the colony, when harsh
treatment for the convict was the order
of the day.
Or possibly the knowledge that jails
and reformatories are overcrowded
encourages leniency, when severe punish-
ment is really merited.
Statistics in Australia provide no indi-
cation that kindness or education are
having any useful effect in reducing crime
or developing respect for the law. It
would seem, rather, that this tolerance
of the criminal only encourages him to
the view that crime is simply an easy
way of life.
It is strange that, in a State where
gambling in every shape and form is
encouraged to the limit, simple breaches
of gambling-laws—usually the result of
unpopular legislation—are rated more
seriously than real crime when it comes
to dealing out punishment (“Doynest,” B.
3/10/’56). The young bandit who steals
a car and often ruins it before he is caught
deserves a stiff fine or jail rather than a
bond to be of gopd behavior, which is
open encouragement for him to repeat
the offence.— Shellback (N.S.W.).
Public-service Freelances
“Squinter” (B. 14 /11 / ’56) seems to
think there is something wrong with civil
servants selling written articles which
7arry “the authority of the position.”
Since the clerical and general divisions
Acarcely lend themselves to breezy articles
or erudite essays, that leaves the technical
branches. In this case, if a soil-conserva-
tion officer has an informative article pub-
lished on his work ii is not because he
holds a particular Government position,
but because he happens to know some-
thing about soil-conservation.
In other words, be knows what he’s
writing about, which is rather a good
qualification for all freelances, inside or
outside the civil service. He writes, not
because he is a departmental soil-conser-
vation officer, but because he is an expert
in his field.
A farmer or pastoralist could be
excused for looking askance at an article
on pasture-improvement written by a
pharmacist’s mate or the religious editor.
On the other hand, the agricultural
research-officer who has the ability to
summarise his work in such a way that
the man on the land gets a clear picture
of what progress is being made has
the confidence of his readers. Surely he
is doing a public service by publishing
his results as widely as possible.
And there are many such articles
written by public servants without any
monetary reward whatever. —Geep
(W.A.).
Parking
The need for more parking-facilities in
city areas becomes steadily more apparent
as more and bigger buildings are erected
in the city areas, yet the powers-that-be
seem to see no connection between the
two.
The private car is becoming more and
more popular for daily transport to and
“What! Spuds again!”
from the city, and those who know its
comfort and convenience will not
patronise public transport if they can help
it. Hence exhortations to use trams and
trains and buses will not help to solve the
parking-problem. Nor will prohibitions
on parking in city areas —these merely
make motorists park a little further out.
Short of banning street-parking altogether
throughout the metropolitan area, con-
gestion in the streets will not be avoided.
Surely the obvious course is to require
those erecting new buildings of any
description to provide parking-facilities
on the site in proportion to the capacity
of the structure. If this had been insisted
on when the boom in city building began
shortly after the war, many of the present
parking difficulties would have been
avoided.
It’s not too late, however, to bring in
some such law now.— Doynest (Vic.).
Hungary
One can only agree with the general
tenor of Stephen Kelen’s “Miracle
in Hungary”—he raises an interesting
and crucial point in the suggestion that
the Magyars are instinctively non-Slav —
but I must challenge his attempt to deni-
grate the old pre-1914 status quo: the
great Austro-Hungarian Empire.
To compare the Austrian suppression
of the 1848 Kossuth Republican Rebel-
lion with that by the Soviet in the current
instance is a distortion of fact. Ruthless
the then Austrian Government un-
doubtedly was, but at no time did it
impose upon the Hungarians an atheistic
Marxian philosophy of materialism
based on the denial of any individual
human liberty.
In 1848, the age of “autocratic kings,”
slave-labor camps and mass-deportations
thereto were still unknown—it has taken
“the century of the common man” to
introduce those things.
As Stephen Kelen must know, the
enlightened and humane Emperor
Charles, last of the Habsburg sovereigns
—called by Anatole France “the only
honest man who occupied an important
position during the [First] World War” —
was so moved by the sufferings of his
people that he attempted to negotiate with
the Western Allies for peace when mob-
hysteria among the combatants was still
opposing any cessation of hostilities.
Later, in 1921, when Charles courage-
ously set foot in his Hungarian kingdom
and was joined by thousands of loyalists,
he was treacherously betrayed by Horthy
and his satellites (who were moved by
fear of the Benes Little Entente bloc)
and eventually taken on a British warship
to Madeira—“a shameful act,” Lord
Phillimore brandedit.
As Stephen Kelen knows, the Habs-
burgs had inherited the ancient Christian
kingdom of St. Stephen, and were crowned
at Budapest with his sacred crown, swear-
ing a solemn oath to observe the rights,
liberties, laws and customs of the Hun-
garian people,
It is beyond all doubt, as the British
historian Sir Charles Petrie trenchantly
observes, that the destruction of the semi-
autonomous, prosperous, civilised and
highly cultivated Austro - Hungarian
Empire meant the creation of “a state of
chaos in the whole of the Danube area” ;
a dangerous void which Soviet Russia has
inevitably occupied to her own advantage
and a dire loss to the Western civilised
world.— M. C. Craig (Vic.).
Lajos Kossuth, leading personality of
the Hungarian revolt against the Habs-
burgs in 1848, was not regarded as a
hero in his own time by many of his
countrymen, who considered that his
conduct contributed substantially to the
failure of the enterprise.
When, after escaping from Hungary,
Kossuth made his triumphant tours of
England and the U.S.A., many other
Hungarian exiles objected to the adulation
he was accorded and, says the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica, “protested against his
claim to be the one national hero of the
Revolution, and accused him of arro-
gance, cowardice, and duplicity.”
Kossuth assumed the leadership of the
extreme nationalists, who proposed
forcibly to Magyarise the Slavonic
elements in Hungary—Croats, Slovenes,
etc. The latter, headed by Jellacic, Ban
of Croatia, thereupon joined the Habs-
burgs. By declaring for republicanism
and associating himself with Left-wing
internationalists, Kossuth alienated
moderate Hungarian opinion.
General Gorgei, who was mainly
responsible for the Hungarian victories,
and who was a royalist although opposed
to control of Hungary from Vienna, vir-
tually repudiated Kossuth’s leadership,
as did other prominent Hungarians.
Kossuth was popularly suspected of
aiming to elevate himself one day from
the presidency of Hungary to the throne,
the Hungarians being too strongly
monarchial in sentiment to tolerate a
republic for long—Hungary and Bulgaria
were the only defeated countries in World
War I not to become republics. Kossuth’s
action in declaring Hungary a republic
also rendered compromise with Vienna
out of the question, and gave Russia the
excuse to intervene, with disastrous
results for Hungary.
In his old age, Kossuth advocated a
Danubian federation. Had he used his
influence and eloquence in his days of
power to persuade his countrymen to
support such a policy, and had it been
achieved, his name would have gone down
to history as one of the greatest statesmen
of the 19th century, and the subsequent
history of the peoples of the Habsburg
realm would have been happier. So would
the history of Europe, through the Habs-
burg realm providing an effective counter-
poise to Germany and Russia.
Like many other leaders of nationalist
movements, neither Kossuth nor Gorgei
really belonged to the people they cham-
pioned—Kossuth’s ancestry was Slovak,
and Gorgei was of Saxon descent. —
Terry the Tory (N.S.W.).
Canberra
I was present on March 12, 1913, when
Lady Denman opened the little casket and
gave the official name and correct pro-
nunciation of Canberra (B. . 7 /11/ ’56).
She announced that Canberra must be
spelt with two r’s, but pronounced with
the accent on the first syllable (i.e., as
though it were Cannbera).
On what evidence does “S.K.” claim
that the suggested name of Myola is of
aboriginal origin? I always understood
that Myola was a scramble of some of the
letters in O’Malley and was intended as
a tribute to King O’Malley.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 411
Across
I—Perform and entrance the office
of an influential Venetian the
hound swallowed. (6)
3—ln the case of Mother Hubbard’s
dog, the first part was not grati-
fied by the second. (8)
9—Firm’s sign of the complement
of an angle. (3)
11 — Their vessel is damaged; one
might have a hand in it. (11)
12— Diversion is to employ me and
the Northern Territory. (9)
13— Fruit chap on leave. (5)
15— Famous botanist had turned 50.
(4)
1 6— Successful service. (3)
17 — Irishman might be expected to
speak with this shoe. (6)
20— Motherless Dutch city is a cad.
„ (6)
21— Swell sealer. (3)
22 — Immovable but quick movement.
(4)
35—Clever sting conveyances are
back. (5)
26—Mounts by the harbor—a lucky
sign. (9)
*•7—Ran into an automobile
colleague’s wristbones. (II)
28—Rex in France. (3)
29 Ship “garage” cut off three feet.
(8)
30 — Graduate to visit Lauren. (6)
Down-
1 — Evatt and Hans singularly
accompany the Miss Day who
croons for one-for-the-road.
(4-2-5)
2 Edward of Tasmania sampled the
flavor. (6)
4 Toot is thus—entirely! (2, 4)
5 Large room taken by a gospeller
as a symbol of quality. (8)
6 Or a Negro peach, (anagram)
(13) .
7 Wool-producer who deprives
Mae West of her mast. (3)
8— It’s golden license is hidden. (7)
10 —Six-down would be interested in
such money on that half-century
lark. (5, 8)
14 —A very big hit for six in Sydney
is past its usefulness. (4, 3,4)
18— The middle of 29-across enlarged
knowledge and cut up the middle
of 29-across. (8)
19 — It’s always a considerable distance
for the mug golfer. (7)
23 — Co-beneficiary could be rasher.
(6)
24 — Praise is expected in the country.
(6)
27 —Nuts. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 410


knows what
m
■ :
H
■
I m MhHHI
II
: ; 11
■
■:
»
v - ;-
11MMH
■
■ '. -.: s ;
illilf
111
■ :
Hr
l
’
1
w
I'. ;
i
Hill
■ SB
■I
: . .: 11l
IBWMMiIiIIB
w
nm
-■■ :mMIIH
HranSHHii
■i
T'.^f
Hr
lllllfe-,
m
+■
_ • :
■;v ■
m
ut:\
m
:--r -
• S >
'
TITAN SETS OF SIX
from 58/6
Slightly more in country.
Also available in
sets of four
and singly
Mi lyilllll
- > mm S
!
•
grafl
Ipfj I
lilt ! Sp I f
||«f Vi
.A..*~'. Ls «L
* pa -
rcj 4il|| >
w« I
p rffft if
c mSSA
■
m
\ Wm
%
&
m
o
m
<*
V
Quality Chisels
. . . they have the edge!
