

m
Ifmtse of oeppell
Jftsfe fmt tlje Mast Ifeartg
(feelings
The Bulletin
"Griffo” in America— page 3s
Wednesday, December 25, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in. Australia fortransmission by post as a newspaper.
THE WALLACE MONUMENT, RAISED
TO A HERO'S MEMORY
Q I IRTINC. at the mouth of the River Forth, dominates the road
to the north and is the historic gateway to the Scottish Highlands',
It was a favourite residence of Scottish Kings and Queens, and it has
placed its part in many notable occasions.
One of its famous battles was that of Stirling Bridge, in 1297,
when the Scots, under William Wallace, won a resounding victory
oyer the superior English forces under Warenne, Earl of Surrey.
Warenne advanced to the bridge, the only one crossing the Forth
in those days, and which was barely wide enough for two horsemen
riding abreast. Wallace, who held a strong position on the hill
known as Ailsa Craig, waited until half the English force were across
the bridge before swooping down to attack. The battle ended in a
complete rout of the English force and the survivors were pursued
south to Newcastle.
Wallace is commemorated by the imposing Wallace Monument
which crowns the summit of Ailsa Craig, on the outskirts of Stirling!
and which is illustrated here. Above the entrance to the tower is
a bronze statue of Wallace of heroic proportions, the figure being
thirteen feet high. Within the tower is the spacious entrance hall, a
refreshment room and a hall in which are displayed some suits of
armour., facsimiles of documents concerning Wallace, his famous
two-handed sword, which is five feet four inches in length, and
superb windows blazoned with appropriate coats-of-arms.
Steps lead to the top of the 220 feet high tow'er, which provides
magnificent views of Highland peaks and the gleaming waters of
the River Forth. From the tower can also be seen five battlefields,
the most famous of which is Bannockburn, fought in 1314. The
battlefield lies near the town of Bannockburn, two and a half miles
east of Stirling, and the Bore Stone, on w'hich Bruce planted his
standard, is still preserved there. .
No. 380: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt .


BOOKHCNTKR, l{o* 2«71, 0.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
tec- only if successful
The Red Page
A CONVICT'S TALE
One of the most tantalising books
issued for many a year is W. S. Hill-
Reid’s John Grant’s Journey A
Convict’s Story, 1803-11 (Heinemann).
Its origin was reported by cables
in the daily press not long ago. It
appeared that Hill-Reid had dis-
covered, in the vaults of a London
bank, the journal and letters of “an
educated young man” named John
Grant who was sentenced to death in
1803 for attempting to shoot a
solicitor, and afterwards transported to
N. S. Wales.
Grant’s letters and journals may be
most important historical material.
The reader has no chance to evaluate
them. He must absorb the details of
the story that they tell after they have
been sieved through the mind of
someone who appears to have accumu-
lated from a perusal of the “Historical
Records of Australia” and hurried
checking in the Public Records Office
and other sources a mass of garbled
misinformation.
Grant appears to have been a weak-
minded young bankrupt. He was
obviously outraged at being sentenced
for having merely fired two charges of
swan-shot at close quarters into the
rump of a respectable solicitor who
unaccountably refused to aid him in
running away with an heiress. In
Botany Bay he formed intimacies with
strange people, including George Bass’s
mad partner, Captain Charles Bishop,
once commander of the Venus.
Under the influence of purposeful
agitators like Maurice Margarot, the
Scottish “martyr,” and the romantic
kidnapper of Quaker brides. Sir Henry
Brown Hayes, he got himself into
trouble in N. S. Wales by organising
“secret bonds of freedom” and writing
abusive and subversive letters to the
Governor and Judge Advocate only a
little after the Irish had been in
rebellion with the whole colony stand-
ing to arms. It roused his indignation
when, having repeated his tactics, he
found himself in irons in Norfolk
Island and later on, since he continued
to give trouble, on a solitary isle with
his bare back lashed—this in spite of
the fact that his judges (vide the
“Sydney Gazette”) “pathetically
expressed their concern that a man
whose talents properly applied might
have obtained respect in society”
should be guilty of actions and writings
“most absurd but not less dangerous
in civil society.” They went to great
lengths to save him from himself, but
he scorned salvation.
Since his narrative seems to provide,
copious detail about the personalities
of the day in Botany Bay, this tale,
unadorned, might prove to be a rich
historical treasure for fiction-writers
even though marked by constant bias
and inaccuracy, since it purports,
apparently, to describe homes, modes
of living and social procedure as well
as giving physical descriptions of
known personalities of historical
importance. •
However, Grant’s story appears only
in scraps or in condensation by an
editor who thinks Governor Phillip’s
term as Governor ended in 1800 and
that the Sirius carried the first convicts,
and who reproduces all the hackneyed
errors about the so-called “Rum
Corps” born of the inability of some
popular modern historians to under-
stand words like “officer” as used in
early colonial documents.
He is so little familiar with early
Sydney that he reproduces a picture of
the Vaucluse of Wentworth, circa 1860
or later, as a likeness of the Vaucluse
of Henry Brown Hayes (1805), which
wasn’t even in the same place, and a
picture of convicts of the 1830’s to
illustrate a narrative of 1803, and his
judgments of men and facts —whether
on the authority of Grant is not always
clear —are often inaccurate.
Grant himself is clearly inaccurate
where his statements can be sheeted
home to him. He describes David
Dickenson Mann, King’s personal
amanuensis, as his “Under Secretary,”
and compares him as a “free settler”
with the emancipists, whereas in fact
Mann was himself an ex-convict.
He pictures Atkins, the drunken
Judge Advocate, as a little legal-
looking man in black, whereas the
descriptions of Ellis Bent make it clear
that he was a tall, fine-looking
aristocrat, obviously accustomed to
the polished and higher classes of life.
He credits Atkins with a childless wife:
he had two children in N. S. Wales
and one in England, the latter the
ancestor of the current Lord Denham.
Poor old Colonel Paterson, the
commandant, is saddled with six
illegitimate offspring, but it is inferred
that this was normal to a bachelor in
the colony, whereas the noble naturalist
was really as uxorious a husband as
there was in Botany Bay, and there
was no tangible record of any
adventures outside the circle of his
charming Betsy’s leading-rein—drink
was his hobby. Bligh saw to it that
all illegitimates were credited to their
proper owners in the records.
Grant gives a charming picture of
the model domestic menage of William-
son of Prospect Hill, whom he repre-
sents as a very moral Presbyterian
character, hard-working, kindly and of
modest means, failing entirely to say
anything about his acquisitions while
Acting-Commissary. Governor King’s
unfriendly resume of his operations
has apparently escaped the notice of
the editor. The latter becomes tangled
up when he essays to understand the
judicial and magisterial systems. He
seems to think the two naval officers,
Houston and Symonds, were officers of
convict transport-ships.
He thinks Macquarie—who never
lost his detestation of the “infernal
principles of democracy”—was a
democrat. He believes the legend that
Foveaux, Lieutenant - Governor of
Norfolk Island, who was a plump, easy-
going man. much approved by the gentle
Macquaries, was “infamous.... a
byword for all that was barbarous in
criminal discipline”; whereas that
legend rests mostly on the evidence of
some of the most brutal and dangerous
convicts who ever frightened Norfolk
Island, and is at variance with most
of what is known about him through
more sober sources.
The mild Piper, beloved by nearly
everybody, including his servants, is
held up as being guilty of such
(apocryphal) atrocities of method that
it seems astonishing to Hill-Reid that
they should have been countenanced.
On the other hand, his opinion of
Bligh, whom he consistently describes
as an “admiral” and as ruling with
“equity” and “setting his face against
the powerful and rich,” is sheer fantasy,
especially his assertion that “it was
because he was conscious of his moral
obligations that his first act on arriving
in the colony was an attempt to
suppress the unholy traffic in spirits
carried on so successfully by the officers
of the New South Wales Corps”—
actually his first step was to defer
taking office while Governor King
illegally and immorally made him a
grant of several large choice blocks of
lands, including 113 acres in the heart
of Parramatta and the site of Sydney
University. His second substantial act,
or thereabouts, was to allow his friend
Robert Campbell (whom Hill-Reid
himself condemns) to land a large
quantity of rum, whereafter he became
zealous in the suppression of the
traffic of Campbell’s competitors.
The book’s whole account of the
rebellion against Bligh would be
dismissed even by Bligh’s closest friend
as garbled half-truth.
The fact that Bligh is painted as a
model of lilywhite virtue and kindli-
ness obviously arises from the fact
that he was kind to a supporter whom
he believed (more correctly than in
case of some of Bligh’s beliefs) to be
suffering from a “mental derange-
ment.”
Grant’s tale must be an engaging
narrative —if one could only see it in
{Continued on page 58)


4
"►4
<3
.3
AND WITH IT HAS GROWN
ORGANISATION
to meet to-day’s needs of
the “Man-on-the-Land”
As our Nation has developed, Elders moved ahead with it. Since 1839
117 years ago—Elders have played a big part in the development of the
pastoral industry. To-day their name is a household word throughout
Australia.
180 Branches giving Nation-wide Service, covering Wool, Merchandise,
Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides, Land and
Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED BRISBANE
... SYDNEY;


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 25, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4063
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathart’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.), Wellington.
TRUTH AND COMMUNISM
NATO has provided another propa-
ganda-platform from which Russia
has been able to speak as an intruder
to persuade the softheaded that the
Western world is planning to “surround
Russia” with weaponry, edging forward
to attack when the time is ripe.
It has given Khrushchev a chance
to intensify his campaign of brotherly
love and to cloak the fact that secret
and other trials are in progress in
Hungary, shootings of patriots there a
daily occurrence, and Cardinal
Mindszenty a prisoner in the U.S.
Embassy, with all the violences of
brutal foreign oppression.
From the propaganda which has
issued from Moscow in the past fort-
night it would seem that the Russians
would love to see the Queen, but they
do not say that queens are regularly
held up in Russia as worthless puppet
degenerates. And they fail to call
attention to the fact that the last
relatives of the British monarchy who
resided in Russia, including young
girls with no responsibility for anything
in Russian government, were taken
into a squalid cellar and murdered.
They are all peace and goodwill and
indignation at the build-up of weapons
against them. But they fail to say that
Russia was the only great country
which did not demobilise after World
War 11, but continued to expand its
military forces and started the rearma-
ment of other countries by its inter-
ference in their internal affairs and its
clear policy of world-conquest through
the Communist movement and its
organisation of strife among Asiatic
peoples. They succeed in diverting
public attention from huge Soviet slave-
camps, slave-nations and illegal hold-
ing and brain-washing of prisoners-of-
war. and from an assiduous policy of
sabotage and subversion.
On the surface Russia is suave,
persuasive, aiming to divide nations
from nations and peoples from Gov-
ernments.
There is no doubt that those who
seem to have benefited most from the
conference so far have been the
Russians. They produced difference,
public and obvious, between the greater
Powers, and particularly the United
Kingdom and the United States, about
the matter of continuation of negotia-
tions for peace and disarmament. Also,
in building resistance to American
policies in vital areas along the
invasion-routes to Western Europe.
They have fed the Communist parties
of the world with fresh material. And
they prepared in advance, and had
ready for issue last week, an insidious
declaration by the representatives of
forty Communist parties (including
Australian) assembled in Moscow for
the celebration of the anniversary of
the October Revolution. This declara-
tion is now being circulated in the
Communist press and among the
unions everywhere.
If any Russian attempted to issue
such stuff in Moscow against his own
country’s Government he would be
shot on sight. But Moscow is able to
laugh at the softness of its victims.
These are defeating themselves by
allowing a free hand to organisations
of internal traitors who trot backwards
and forwards from Moscow with the
use of funds from unexplained sources,
and who are loudest in the demand for
the “four freedoms” so that they may
use them to destroy the basis of all
freedom in the interests of a foreign
Power.
The United Kingdom leaders have
taken the only sensible line in agreeing
that overtures from Russia, even in
these circumstances, cannot be ignored,
no matter how specious, and that the
Nato line of thought must be restated
whenever it is necessary.
Hopes that anything can come of
them must be very thin in the face of
past experiences. Over thirty attempts
have been made to achieve agree-
ment on disarmament, both as between
the nations of the West and the
U.S.S.R. directly and in the U.N.
Russia, in every case, put a sprag
in the wheel so soon as any progress
had been made or showed signs of
being made.
When its representatives have
carried the talks to the point of initial
progress their masters in Moscow have
immediately grasped them by the neck
and, with howls of abuse at the West,
drawn them back into the spider-web
of deceit and broken faith which forms
the real fabric of Soviet diplomacy.
The West is failing in its propa-
ganda because it neglects to use the
available weapons with which Russia
provides it in its official literature, and
gives the Russians full scope to do their
worst.
The press generally is ready to
reproduce any lie or smooth and
specious line which the Russian Central
Communist Party chooses to invent,
but it seems to feel that there is no
news-value in the monotonous but vital
reality that until the Kremlin
abandons Communism as a creed,
world-conquest “peace” imposed by
Communist force, which is the only
meaning of “peace” in Russian jargon
—is the specific and main policy of
the Communist bloc. Or, in Stalin’s
words, the establishment throughout
the globe of “a strong and powerful
dictatorship of the proletariat.”
The objectives of Communism, as
they have been given over and over
again, and are still being stated in the
Communist-party training-schools, are
summed-up in the words of Stalin:—
In contrast with bourgeois national-
ism, international-class-solidarity demon-
strates the principle and practice of
unity f0r.... the national liberation of
all subjected peoples, and prepares for
the “future amalgamation of the toilers
of all countries into a single world
economic system.”
What “liberation” means in terms
of Communism may be gauged by
reference to the practical examples of
the little Baltic countries and Hungary
—taking-over by the Red Army, depor-
tation to slave-camps and death to all
who disagree openly with the vanguard
leadership, suppression of political
agitation with tanks and security-
police, shooting, murder, intimidation
of all opposition to “the leading force
of the working-class”—i.e., the Com-
munist party.
It seems a pity that Nato does not
devote some of its energy to extending
knowledge of these views as taught in
the inner circles of Communism along
with dissemination of knowledge of the
real Communist theory about war.
Moscow and every Communist in
the world inveighs against warmongers
and tries to persuade the softheads at
large that war is wicked and is only
waged because of the conflicts
engendered by imperialists bent on
dividing-up the world or attacking the
Soviet Union or its allies in hatred of
the working-classes. But its private
teaching, as shown in its official
“Marxist Glossary,” is that wars can
be just and unjust, and that “a just
war is one waged for liberation to
liberate the people from capitalist
slavery” or to “liberate colonies and
dependent countries from the yoke of
imperialism,” the yoke of imperialism
being the rule of any Government or
system outside the Communist bloc.
If these things were made clear to
every child in the Western schools, as
they are to every child in Soviet Russia,
there might not be so much need to
worry about the future of the free
nations.


“It’s the same old tune, and still off-key.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Morals of St. Marys
Although it was not seized upon as an
occasion for another special advertising
supplement by the Sydney dailies, the
St. Marys (N.S.W.) munitions-filling
factory was officially opened by Prime
Minister Menzies last week, and Supply
Minister Howard Beale saw one of his
biggest jobs completed just two days
before his appointment as Ambassador
to the United States was announced.
The munitions-plant has been the
subject of a good deal of press and poli-
tical criticism. Sydney “Herald (among
others) first registered objection to the
scheme at the time reduced spending was
demanded of private enterprise in the
interests of the national economy, and it
has decried it on several other scores
since—cost, delay in starting and com-
pletion, usefulness, and, finally, “Who
will fire the ammunition?”
The whole subject of defence is at
present agitating the minds of Western
Governments, and Australia is not
exempt. The transfer of Mr. Beale to
Washington will hasten the reorganisation
of the defence Ministries in Canberra —
The Bulletin all along has urged a con-
solidation of defence portfolios among
fewer and more competent Ministers.
But apart from administration, the pattern
of defence is a major problem. Mr.
Menzies himself said at the St. Marys
opening: “We are being consistently told
by some people that conventional war
and arms are a thing of the past. I wish
I had their enviable faculty to forecast
when the next war will be, where it will
be fought, and how it will be fought.
How do we know? Are we to stop a
small war with nuclear weapons? Surely
humanity revolts at the thought of it!”
Menzies summed-up the approach
to the St. Marys venture when
he said: “I am a realist, and we
cannot escape our proper share of the
responsibility by indulging in dreams of
the kind that envisages a war without
troops, without sailors and without pilots.
We must deal with the world as we see
it.”
The St. Marys factory has cost a lot of
money —something between £25 million
and £3O million. That is out of an
annual defence-vote of about £l9O
million. It could be that, if there is no
war, it will be completely useless in an
economic sense. But most defence effort
and expenditure (excluding military roads
and other construction that is of civil use
as well) is of that order: it is insurance,
and if you don’t have to avail yourself
of it, in the long-run so much the better.
But who would neglect insurance?
The present Federal Government has
been charged by the Bland Committee
from time to time with unjustifiable
expenditure. No doubt there has been
waste (and haste) in some degree in the
St. Marys factory. But the Government
is, economically speaking, a responsible
Government, and generally it has shown
itself to have an economic conscience not
possessed by its Opposition, or, quite
often, by its critics who still do not
hesitate to talk about “the Horror
Budget” of 1951.
There is another moral to the whole
thing. Not many miles from St. Marys
an N.S.W. semi-government enterprise,
started years before the munition-filling
factory, is still not finished, and as a
result Sydney is under water-restrictions.
The Warragamba Dam is being built by
day-labor by the Water Board —started
in 1946, it won't be ready until 1959 at
the earliest, according to P. H. Morton,
leader of the N.S.W. Opposition. The
Snowy Mountains Scheme, the Eildon
Weir and the Adaminaby Dam, all con-
structed, or being constructed, by free
enterprise under contract, had “put the
Warragamba Dam project to shame,”
Morton said.
The St. Marys factory, too, was built
by the Utah Construction Company,
which was chief contractor in construct-
ing the Eildon Weir in Victoria.
Indonesian Volcano
Soekarno is at least still in titular com-
mand of Indonesia, but government
everywhere is dependent, according to
region, on the Army, the Communists or
the local Moslem extremists.
In Ambon, rebellion was reported during
the week. It is an anti-Soekarno area
which did not take to “freedom” kindly,
and it has had to be held in check from
the beginning. The same seems to be
true of the southern Celebes, in which
Moslem insurgents have kept up a de facto
independent local rule despite everything
that the so-called Indonesian Government
could do.
In the ports and cities, and the country-
side dependent on their satisfactory
functioning, there is chaos, both as to
fact and as to policy.
A Government statement suggested, for
instance, that it had never been intended
to seize Dutch shipping and that the
armed guards placed on board ships were
merely normal manifestations of martial
law.
Presumably the Indonesian passengers
and crews who forced Dutch ships on the
high seas (within “Indonesian limits”) to
go to ports under compulsion of arms also
had no intention that the- ships should be
seized. They were only exercising their
exuberance. And the declaration by the
Government that all seas within the Indo-
nesian outer boundaries—including, it
seems, West New Guinea—irrespective of
distance from the shore are under full
Indonesian jurisdiction is probably meant
as a joke.
It is a curious repetition of a similar joke
that has been played in the Sea of Japan
off Vladivostok by the Russians, and in
the China Sea by the Chinese Com-
munists, who have claimed that their
territorial waters run right up to within
a few miles of the shores of the
Philippines.
The declaration, if taken seriously,
affects most of the main shipping-routes
through the Torres Strait and further
northwards across the southern face of
Asia, but it is scarcely likely to be
seriously enforced without resistance.
Indonesia is already paying dearly for
letting its Communists get out of hand
and its President play with fire. For the
sake of a vengeful and illegal gesture the
Indonesian Government has disrupted
commerce and industry, paralysed inter-
island shipping and brought agricultural
workers mobilised by the agitators to the
cities, with disastrous effects on crop-
handling, which is a hand-to-mouth
affair.
Thanks to Communist organisation,
30,000 waterside-workers are said to be
idle, and food-supply problems are
reported from nearly all thickly
populated areas. What is worse
than industrial riot and disrup-
tion, many key men have left the
republic among the 1400-odd Dutch who
have been evacuated, and these technic-
ally skilled workers cannot be replaced
locally. Take-overs of Dutch -property
by the Army continue, and late in the
week Netherlands gas and electricity
companies were “placed under control.”
At the same time, a new and more
stringent form of martial law than that
formerly in operation was declared.
Generally the present political system
of Indonesia and the Government may
be described as a series of local terrorisms
damped-down by force of arms, but
fanned from underneath by fanatic Com-
munists in some places, fanatic Moslems
in others, and calculating opportunists
wherever they see an opening.
One singular paradox is that whereas
at first the Government was for throwing
the Dutch out holus-bolus, it is now
blaming the Dutch for encouraging its
nationals to leave —a dastardly procedure,
it would appear. But any Dutchman
who, after the years of illegal trials, con-
temptuous treatment and continual
threat, had any real wish to stay or felt
any tie after his property had been taken
from him is ripe for psychiatric treatment.
Giving Away Genius
It seems that the British-Australian
partnership in science has done it again
in the field which developed from the
splitting of the atom by Lord Rutherford,
a Maorilander, in the Cavendish Labora-
tory at Cambridge.
Britons and Australasians have had
joint shares in many developments con-
nected with modern wonder-advances,
including such scarcely known inventions
as the Michel thrust-block (which made
the huge ships of the modern era
possible), the work of Sir John Madsen
in the early development of radar, and of
E. G. Bowen (now Deputy Chief of the
Division of Radiophysics at C.5.1.R.0.),
who was a member of the original radar-
team in England in 1935, and who was
chosen to take the first magnetron-valve
to the United States and teach its
scientists the elements of radar. Bowen
is Welsh, and elected to settle in Aus-
tralia with a tremendous record and


prestige behind him, while Madsen is a
product of Sydney High School.
The same kind of partnership is evident
Jn the field of antibiotics, in which a name
like that of Sir Howard Florey is
bracketed closely with that of Fleming
in the development of penicillin.
The latest partnership seems likely to
produce the greatest fame for the
members of it. These consist of Dr. Peter
Thonemann, the son of a
Northern Territory station-owner —Mrs.
Gunn’s Elsey was one of the family
properties—and Dr. Fry, an Englishman,
who have been working at Harwell
nuclear-research station. They are
claimed, on the authority of Dr. Howard
Urey, an American Nobel Prize winner
and one of the world’s leading physicists
and principal discoverers of heavy
hydrogen, to have possibly made a
development far more important than
sputnik—the harnessing of the hydrogen-
atom to peaceful purposes.
No official announcement has been
made about this discovery, a matter which
has produced fury among the kind of
crtics who for some mysterious reason
are always anxious to hand any great
British piece of research over to the
Americans —and, of course, the Russians.
The latter, presumably, have some interest,
ill-concealed, in the generating of this
propaganda, since it is alleged that con-
cealment is not to protect British interests
but to cloak the shame of the United
States Atomic Commission in allowing
itself to be beaten in the sphere of
satellites!
Exactly why the British should not
impose security on a discovery which may
be of such vast importance to British pros-
perity and future it is difficult to deduce.
The Thonemann technique, if it is
successful, must give Britain the lead in
the production of thermonuclear power
and enable it to be first in this field. If
all that is believed of it in scientific
circles is true it means that costly
uranium is on its way out, along with
the fission method of power-production,
to be replaced by the fusion method,
drawing its force from deuterium, pro-
duced from sea-water in unlimited
quantities.
The Missing ingredient
[liy “Ek Dum”]
The silence of Mr. Nehru in the Indo-
nesian business unprecedented, since
he normally feels constrained to rush
to the support of any Asian country in
conflict with a European one—only be-
comes fully understandable when present
conditions in India are appreciated.
That “sovereign democratic republic,”
not within but nebulously associated with
the British Commonwealth of Nations
(whose policy iLopposes whenever Russia
or China cracks the whip), will end eight
years of independent history on January
26 next—it has the same foundation-day
as Australia.
Its record is not impressive. Trained
as a Marxian Socialist in politics, with his
eyes cast towards Russia for method,
Nehru has learned that more than
Socialism is needed to produce the mil-
lennium, and he has just now been busily
engaged explaining to a noisy House of
the People in New Delhi why it has not
arrived.
He has had two five-year plans with
the same features—except one —as Stalin’s
five-year plans, and in the middle of
the second plan India seems to be
threatened with economic disaster.
The end of British rule removed the
most efficient driving-force in the civil
service, and in many parts corruption
became both a habit and an industry.
The British departure also took the skids
from under India’s credit, and the only
people willing to lend to its Government,
especially after Nehru’s trips to Russia
and . the Communist victory in Kerala
Slate, were persons with axes to grind.
The exports which under Socialism
were to earn golden harvests for India
have languished. Public works are
drifting into ruin in some parts and con-
struction of the great power-stations is
stagnant for want of money. Japanese
competition has halted the development
of the Indian cotton-goods trade. The
lea trade is dead, with Ceylon eating
steadily into it. The jute business is sink-
ing in the face of competition of other
kinds of container-material and as a
result of a world-wide decline in prices
for fibres.
For some time a great drought has been
developing across the most productive
part of the grain region of the north-west,
calling for import of food to keep alive a
local population three or four times that
of Australia. And foreign-exchange
reserves, which are now not much more
than 50 per cent, of Australia’s reserves,
are dwindling alarmingly.
India is hunting hard for foreign-
exchange and credits to complete its
water-supply projects and heavy industry
and electrical plants, to buy food exter-
nally and to modernise part of its pro-
duction. Except for a small loan as
bait from the U.S.S.R., another from
West Germany and a little from the
Colombo Plan, plus some trading credits
from Japan, there are no takers. Away
from instability, the centres with money
are apt to remember that Nehru scarcely
seems practical enough to trust with the
hundreds-of-millions which will be needed
to keep the wheels of the second five-year
plan turning. They also are apt to
remember his dickerings with Com-
munism, his opposition to British policies
in the Middle East, and his support of
Nasser and the Soviet Union in Hungary.
He himself appears bewildered. It is
a far cry from the day when a lot of
people agreed with the dictum of Mr.
Chifley that he was the greatest man in
the world. Even Mr. Gaitskell, leader of
the United Kingdom Labor Party, at the
recent Parliamentary conference in Delhi
read him a lecture to the effect that
the passive resistance, Gandhi-ism and
playing with Moscow would scarcely
enable an undefended India to survive in
a world full of predatory Communists.
The trouble with Mr. Nehru is that in
his enthusiasm for Socialism he forgot
that he didn’t possess the salient ingredient
to mix the Russian-type Socialist brew
•—the one that has enabled Soviet Russia
to keep afloat—the military might and the
atmosphere in which to maintain a
wholly-slave State, isolated from the rest
of the world and ruled by brute-force.
India is becoming a very urgent
problem for the West, Australia included.
If the Western world does not come to
India’s rescue promptly somebody else
may who will be able to employ the miss-
ing ingredient of force —and that behind
an extended Iron Curtain.
Its primary need seems to be new and
practical leadership ready to be co-opera-
tive with the British Commonwealth.
Politics and Murder
Sandor Mede, a 24-year-old Hungarian
who murdered a Melbourne suburban
milk-bar proprietor when he refused to
hand-over his till, was sentenced to death,
but has been treated with the familiar
leniency extended to murderers by the
Bolte Government. His sentence has
been commuted by the Executive Council
to life-imprisonment.
Mede is the eighth murderer whose
death-sentence has been commuted by
the current Government, but his crime
outstrips the previous eases, since it was
such a callous and ruthless act motivated
by greed. Moreover, he had, during his
short life, already served five years of a
seven-year sentence for the manslaughter
of another man.
It has been presumed that the reason
the Liberal party in Victoria had teamed
with the Country party to defeat Labor
bills (when Labor was not in office)
abolishing the death-penalty was that
crimes such as Mede’s could be punished
by hanging. It is true that the jury
recommended mercy in delivering their
verdict, but no reason was given for it,
and Cabinet, in considering the case, was
not bound to give more than careful
thought to the recommendation.
The sincerity of the Cabinet in voting
against the abolition of the death-penalty
while refusing to carry it out —in fact,
while intervening between the hangman
and the court—obviously is now
questionable.
There is a substantial majority opinion,
according to public-opinion polls, against
capital-punishment in Victoria, and there
can be no doubt that Cabinet, with an
election looming within six months, was
not unmindful of it. The execution of
Mede undoubtedly would have lost votes
from citizens to whom capital-punishment
is repugnant.
The Opposition in the Victorian
Parliament has been equally hypocritical
on the issue, since no attempt was made
in the years of its Parliamentary
majorities to introduce an abolition bill,
and the subsequent attempts that have
been made to pass one were undertaken
when its minority of members fore-
doomed the measures.
Both parties clearly seem, in this case,
more concerned about politics than the
law.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
OYDNEY was in one of its steambaths,
and the department-store Santa,
without benefit of air-conditioning, was
using a lull to repair the damage to his
ersatz face-mat caused by a nervous tiny
who had grabbed his ziff to stop her
slipping off his knee while he made his
extravagant promises. He furtively lifted
the phony beard, wrung his streaming
face out, parked the coconut-fibre back
in place, looked at me hopelessly, and
expressed in the flattest tone I’ve ever
heard this most un-Yuletide-like senti-
ment : “B the kids! ” And who
could do other than offer silent
sympathy?—“Bo.”
A A A
V V V
“Xavier”: The Melbourne “Age” has
set a new high in printers’ gremlins.
Scorning the familiar “shrdlu,” “etaoin”
and the like, it came out with the
picturesque line, “od2Jf Ca/’ s-hgbeeo
4e-s” in a report of the Australian Xl’s
cricket-matclv against Eastern Province at
Port Elizabeth.
❖ ❖ *>
“Pelham”: These third-generation
Australians are pretty tough ; witness our
housekeeper, close on 70. She put a
light to the gas-filled oven, whereupon a
sheet of flame blew out and burnt her
face and hair. Into the front-room,
where we were husy reading, she trotted
and—her face burnt scarlet and hair badly
singed—asked our senior inmate what
was best to apply for scalds and burns.
We quickly applied cottonwool soaked
in a liquid mixture of carbonate
af soda. After repeated appli-
cations of this relieving fluid
someone produced picric - acid and
Vaseline to cover the tortured face. A
few minutes later our cool, calm and
collected matron slowly drawled, “Well,
at last I have a fringe to my hair. All my
life I’ve wanted a fringe but my mother
would never let me have one.”
“Ceg”: Nowadays banks are not the
serious and rather gloomy sort of places
they once were ; and even the old days
had their moments. I recall a frisky
young lady-clerk who in the lunch-hour
bought herself the then-equivalent of a
bikini —not that it was one ... far from
it. The temptation to try it on became
irresistible ; the maiden retired into the
strongroom and in two ticks she had it
on and was admiring the effect when two
or three junior-clerks discovered her. In
no time the strongroom was crowded.
Upon this scene arrived the manager, and
the bathing-belle parade came to a sudden
halt. I don't recollect that anyone was
sacked, but a Very Grim View was taken.
♦+♦ ♦>
“Tabba”: One of our car-salesmen
seems to have the wrong idea about turn-
over in business. He has just rolled his
fourth demo.-model.
♦*+ ♦s»
“P.0.M.C.”: I met W. M. Hughes
twice and he was deaf and, most of the
time, did need a hearing-aid (B.
11/12/’57). But it is a peculiarity of
people not totally deaf that they some-
times hear more clearly when spoken-to
softly close at hand than when shouted-at.
And with a testy W.M.H. leaning over her
desk, I'll bet that typist told him to go
to hell softly—which explains precisely
why he heard her.
“So you had to go to the moon on a business trip!”
THE TALKING TIE
“Soap - powder cartons, cereal - packages,
shampoos, etc., fitted with tiny devices that give
a sales-talk when picked up, are appearing in
New York stores.”
The vogue of talking-merchandise
May well have come to stay,
But not, I trust, for Christmas ties—
Or you may hear one say :
“A woman, after I was made,
Took me to her house ;
She liked my pattern, praised my shade,
And gave me to her spouse,
“And when, another year being run,
He left his wife, enraged,
He gave me to his oldest son,
About to be engaged.
“The son who, though particular,
Had little wit to spare,
Gave me to his fiancee’s pa —
Who broke-up his affair.
“When, in a year, the aged man
Was lying at death’s door,
He willed me to his nephew, Dan,
Who had expected more.
“And Dan and many after him
For fifteen years or so
Have looked at me with eyes grown
grim
And softly said, ‘Oh, no !’ ”
“ I’m tired of my security,
A gift-wrapped gadabout;
Oh, Mister, don’t take care of me —
I want to be worn-out!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


a mortal nicotine-poisoning was
” reported from an outlying home-
stead, our coroner and a police-sergeant
were soon on the job, a simple investiga-
tion, except that they couldn’t find the
container from which the poison had
been drunk. Having concluded that it
must have been taken straight from the
bottle, they sat down to a cup of tea pro-
vided by the relatives, who hospitably set
out the best china tea-set. The coroner
took two mouthfuls, suppressed a grimace
and wondered what on earth was wrong
with the farm’s water. Unobtrusively, he
put his cup aside, but the sergeant downed
the lot. On the way home, the two
officials were assailed simultaneously by
the first symptoms and the realisation
that the one vessel they hadn’t examined
was the best teapot. In the meantime their
hostess, wondering why so little of the
eagerly-accepted tea had been consumed,
investigated . . . and rushed to the phone.
Thus the two new poison-victims, racing
towards the nearest medical aid, were
met by a police-and-ambulance convoy
speeding anxiously to their rescue. After
an unhappy couple of days, both
recovered to tell the story against them-
selves —but never again did they accept
cups of tea while investigating sudden
deaths. —“Miss M.”
♦;« * *>
“Metax”: He hadn’t found much
glamor in nearly 50 years as a boiler-
maker, he told me. In fact, he had come
to believe that men were not meant to
work among heavy machinery —if they
had been, a bloke’s feet, instead of
pointing forward where everything
dropped can fall on them, would have
been pointing backwards out of the way.
♦j» ♦♦♦
“Maitri”: Last year an Australian
family, eager to show hospitality to
strangers within the gates, invited a
Hindu couple and their five-year-old son
to Christmas dinner. That night the kid
had a tummy-upset, and eventually
brought to light a couple of sixpences,
and a small silver ring and horseshoe.
♦> ♦;« ►>
“Dolphin”: O stark ferocity of busi-
nessmen in opposition! Was drinking in
a crowded pub when a bloke pushed
through displaying a suitcase of bootlaces,
razor-blades, etc. He was doing a brisk
trade when a similar salesman pushed
him in the back with his suitcase full of
wares and voiced the usual patter. Speech
froze on their lips as they faced each
other, lips drew back from teeth, icy glares
played a delicate duel—then they erupted!
“I was here first!” bellowed No. 1. “Yuh
pinched my bloody pitch! ” snarled No. 2.
Only the intervention of a lively bouncer
averted physical calamity.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Kia-Ora”: Near to midnight on the
last day of the old year, I sat with the
necessary on a packing-case among
other packing-cases in the lounge of my
new home. A few hours earlier the
carrier had said, “The shire-engineer lives
in the big house opposite.” Now, I
noticed, the shire-engineer sat in his
lounge in a comfortable chair with the
necessary balanced on the arm, waiting,
too. A few minutes to go and he rose
and sang lustily, “For Aul’d Lang Syne.”
I held my glass aloft and called, “May
all the roads you build be merry ones.”
Well, the festive season is back, and finds
me sweating again, with the account I’ve
just received for half the kerbing and
guttering adjacent to my property.
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Hotel head-porters in
Europe appear to be able to hold a con-
versation in any language. It is doubtful
if many Australian hall-porters could
answer if spoken to in French or, except
in exceptional cases, English.
A A A
V V V
“Tackline S.”: Solicitor's story (B.
11/12/’57) rang a bell. A cobber was
owed 50 smackers, and having accepted
a characterless handshake in lieu of an
1.0. U., became perturbed when passing
time proved the debtor a shyster. So my
thoughtful friend wrote to ask when he
might expect repayment of the hundred
quid, and received a prompt reply stating
emphatically that only £5O was owed.
Then, indeed, he had something to
go on.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Roni”: A journalist friend appointed
to a vacancy on the council went to the
store and handed in a grocery-order. As
he was moving-off, the shop-assistant
called, “Hey, Brown! Will you take this
with you or do you want it delivered?”
He regarded her thoughtfully for a
moment, then turned to another assistant
who is also Deputy Chairman of the
Council, and said, “It just shows you how
degrading it is to become a member of
the council. When I was merely a
reporter, I was called Mister Brown. Now
I’m a councillor, I’m just plain Brown.”
♦j*-
“Kate”: Tn view of the number of
rock-’n'-roll records included, maybe it
was appropriate of my lass aged 10 to
list the eight top tunes of the week as
“The Hip Parade.”
*l* ♦> +>
“Xavier": The New Aussie got the
usual tip from the Crown Prosecutor, long
accustomed to leading sotto voce wit-
nesses: “Now keep your voice up. And
please speak to the jury.” “Oh ja,”
responded the N.A. obligingly. “Goot
mornink, gentlemen.”
❖ *J» »j*
“Nedrium”: The revived “Sunday
Australian,” published at Cairns (N.Q.),
has folded’after 19 issues since August 4.
It was the only Australian Sunday news-
paper outside the capital-cities. Its demise
followed by three days an A.B.C. regional
news-item to the effect that Ansett-A.N.A.
would run an early Sunday-morning-paper
plane from Brisbane. Normally the
Brisbane Sunday paper doesn’t reach
Cairns streets until mid-Sunday-afternoon,
whereas the earliest “Sunday Australian”
I Wouldn’t Be Lord Mayor
'A chap 1 was talking to in a pub was telling me
it costs a fortune to be Lord Mayor of a city tike ours.
He was saying there’s so much entertaining to be done
and having visiting bigwigs to stay with you
and giving a fiver here and a fiver there for charity
(that’s something apparently no mayor can get out of)
that in the end a bloke’s hundreds of quid out of pocket
just through being Lord Mayor of the city for a year.
Of course, the salary seems a fortune to the rest of us,
and everyone treats a Lord Mayor as a sort of tin god,
and he has flash cars to drive round in whenever he likes, -
and his picture in the papers whenever he opens his mouth,
but it really seems that the job’s not much chop after all.
Then there’s the expenses for his wife, the Lady Mayoress :
She has to get most of her dresses straight from Paris
to keep up what they call the dignity of her position,
and she has to wear pearls, and sometimes even a tiara,
so that at a ball everyone can spot who she is ;
and if the Mayor happens to be owner of a sheep-station
they have to ask the Governor up to stay with them sometimes.
—Think of all the wads of dough the poor devil has to spend
just because the people insist that he becomes Lord Mayor.
I’m sure / wouldn’t like to be Lord Mayor of a city like ours,
even though a man could take the expenses off his income tax,
and although he might even finish up with a knighthood
and being made director of a half-a-dozen companies.
—/ feel real sorry for the poor cows who’re made Lord Mayor,
and / wish that now and then the whole mob of the people
would insist that for at least a year or two
no one should be forced to take the rotten job.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


edition, with full race-results, was avail-
able for Saturday-night theatre-patrons
on their way home. An earlier “Sunday
Australian,” a much more thoroughgoing
publication which began life in 1939, gave
up the ghost about five years ago. A
stablemate, formerly the “Tableland Aus-
tralian” and now the “Tablelander,” circu-
lating on the Atherton Tableland, is still
being produced. Official reason for the
closure of the new-series “Sunday Aus-
tralian” is “circumstances with which this
newspaper cannot successfully contend.”
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“M.E.H.”: “Sack's” par. about the
picture “Lost Orchid" (B. 6/ W / ’57): The
artist, a Russian who came away from
the 1917 Revolution, has for many years
lived in South Africa, where “Lost
Orchid” was painted. He sold it outright,
but it caused such favorable comment
among art-people there that he bought it
back for twice what he had been paid for
it. Thousands of copies have been sold
since it went into print. 1 was in South
Africa a while ago ; gum-chewers are not
so numerous there, and it is hardly fair
to charge Tretchikoff with having omitted
blobs of chewing-gum from the pavement
in his picture. “Sack” is probably judging
it by Australian standards.
»j» »j*
“Tom Trout”: Free counter-lunches
aren’t even a memory in Old Dart pubs
these days, but some boffin has just come
up with a brilliant idea to earn the good-
will of the winter motorist. At a
Plymouth petrol-station, while the car is
being refilled from the petrol-bowser, the
driver can top off, from a special' bowser
. . . with free soup!
* ♦:«
“Brick E.”: Excavating for a founda-
tion near Sydney’s Cricket Ground we
uncovered a small metal (probably
bronze) button. It looked old enough to
be interesting. A clean-up revealed an
inscription encircling the four holes: “J.
H. Roper, Sydney.” Any clues? A man
with his own livery? A tailor who had
his buttons made to order as a silent
advertisement? Or? ——
❖ ❖ *
“Fairf”: That par. by “Cinquanteneu-
vieme” (B. 27/11 / ’57) staggered me. Not
by its text, but by the length of the writer’s
pen-name. Sub-editors must have become
much more open-hearted since the days
when a writer of yachting-pars presumed
to call himself “Steele Rudder” —and had
his rudder bobbed because it would have
run the par. into another line and thus
cost the publication—a Queensland one,
if my memory is not playing tricks —an
extra penny-ha’penny. Still, the sub. un-
wittingly did Davis a service: “The
Rudder Family”—no ; the extra syllable
would have robbed the name of all its
punch.
y >X* *X*
“Bellfield”: In normal times a glance
at that overcast evening sky would have
evoked a confident “Rain” from even
the most cautious weather-prophet, but in
these drought-stricken days we merely
noted the clouds bitterly and went on
watering the scorched plants per bucket.
Three or four drops of rain fell, then
stopped. Half-an-hour later another
handful made a promise that wasn’t ful-
filled. Then, sometime during the night,
I awoke to beautiful music—glorious
rain beating on the roof. Suddenly it
stopped. In the morning there was
scarcely a sign of rain on the garden. On
my way to work a hoarding advertising
the super-colossal at the picture-show
delivered the final mocking touch: “A
Hatful of Rain.”
❖ <i* *>
“Stanus”: Many country broadcasting-
stations employ a part-time “Sports
Editor,” often with only limited sporting
knowledge. Heard one chap rattling-off
the prices for Melbourne races, when a
6-4 favorite won a steeplechase. As only
two tote-dividends were paid there were
obviously less than eight starters, but
Sports Editor thought a little comment
necessary. “Well, those Melbourne punters
will put up with anything. Just imagine
—6-4 in a steeplechase. In my opinion
“Turn off that dreary classical stuff, Emmelina, and tune-in to a
bit of good hot rhythm .”
in any jumping race the betting should
never be less than 10-1 the field.”
Although I’m not a punter, I only hope
that, if ever the day comes when it’s 10-1
the field with seven or fewer runners, I’m
there.
A A A
V V v
“Gabba”: A country client of mine
with two schoolgirl daughters found that
a young rough-diamond who liked to
walk home with the girls was becoming a
very frequent visitor. And then the
youngster confided to my client’s wife,
“You know, Mrs. 8., Dad likes me coming
here. He said to me, ‘Them’s the girls
to get in with, son. Their old man’s
got plenty o’ dough.’ ”
♦> ❖ ❖
“0.W.W.”: On the bus a teenager was
telling a friend how she got to know her
latest heart-throb. “I spoke to him
first,” she declared. “I didn’t wait for
him to address me. I could tell he was
nice by the way he coughed.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Bicky”: Speaking of widows (B.
11/12/’57), a well-known private hotel
(since licensed) in Melbourne had no
fewer than 80 widows staying there at the
one time.
*s*
“Bay Toven”: A ripple of amusement
spread like a bushfire through the dress-
circle of a Sydney picture-show just
before starting-time as a neatly-dressed
young man, carrying the theatre-cat,
crossed the centre-aisle and was ushered
to his seat. I suppose theatre-cats
develop celluloid discrimination ; he was
willing to be nursed through a cartoon, a
newsreel and a color-short on France;
but when M.G.M.'s super-colossal
Biblical spectacle “The Robe” started he
quietly—not to seem catty, no doubt —
left.
*> *** ***
A .• . > „ ■ „
Bird : A cosmetic- caddy is tar-
removed from the homely tea-caddy:
“Heavenly Glow Gift Caddy,” “White
Magnolia Caddy,” and “Noa Noa
Caddy,” they contain such things as
“Exotic Fragrance,” “Romantic Frag-
ranee” and the more commonplace skin-
perfume and complexion-soap. There
ought to be a “Caddish Caddy” for meq
—why do the nice girls always go for
cads?


IyrAYBE “Nitor” (B. 11/12/’57) is
tired of people who “get up,” “get”
their bath, etc., but at least “get” is one
of the nice short Anglo-Saxon words;
surely to “get” one's dinner is preferable
to “procuring” it—unless, of course,
you’re too hungry to give a damn. And
what would one substitute for “get” in
such succinct phrases as “Get to the
devil” and even juicier equivalents?—■
“Dorian.”
❖ ❖ *;♦
“P.0.M.C.”: About twelve months
ago, when living at No. 3 in a short Con-
cord (Sydney) street, 1 mentioned on
this page that the odds against my winning
the N.S.W. lottery would be fantastically
long, since it had already been won at
No. 5 and No. 7. 1 have since moved, but
perhaps 1 should have stayed put—last
week a £ 1000-prize went to No. 15.
* . ♦> ♦>
“Robin”: My aunt was transacting
business at an office where she had to give
her full name. The young clerk remarked,
“You must be old ; they don't have names
like that now.”
“Sackville”: They have been waving
the dark threat at us for countless years,
of course, but now there can be no doubt
about it—the sign appeared on a side-
door of St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney:
“Mothers’ Union, 8.15.” In shocked
trepidation ] await the inevitable ulti-
matum and log of claims: Forty-hour
week ; penalty rates for weekend work ;
three weeks’ annual leave ; accumulative
sick pay; long-service leave; overtime;
marginal—no; no; it can’t happen!
"Jack, old man, I'd like you to meet your net mum."
This, after all, is a- democracy; even
Greek democracy couldn't work without
slaves.
♦♦♦ ♦;« ♦;+ -
“Wusstean”: Announcing the pro-
posed visit of an American warship to
Bellerive (Tas.) for its December Mardi
Gras a Melbourne daily says the name
of this “picturesque, tourist-minded
suburb” of Hobart “comes from the
French for ‘beautiful dream.’ ” Alas,
belle rive means “beautiful shore,”
though in these days of front-page
crimes and disasters it hurts to have to
tell a big daily to stop dreaming and
come down to earth.
* * *
“Phil Anthus”: Every now c and again
my news-sheets assure me that a police-
man is “satisfied” that the discovery of a
body indicates murder, or that he is
“satisfied” that a burned house indicates
arson; and quite often 1 read that a judge
is “satisfied” regarding the guilt of an
accused person—and may even be “satis-
fied” that a co-respondent did in fact
stray from the path of virtue. I can
understand these officials being
convinced on certain matters, but I doubt
their right to be “satisfied.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Pip Tok”: Olaf Ruhen’s reference to
Gavin Casey’s appearing in a passenger-
list 'as The Honorable Gavin Casey re-
minds me of how the appearance of Lord
Manning in a T.A.A. list stirred up the
Press Gang in Perth about ten years ago.
All the reporters were on their toes,
hoping to get a good “personal” about a
visiting V.1.P., until an amended list
showed that “Lord” and “Manning” were
both surnames ; a typist had omitted the
separating comma from the original list,
*** *** *
“Ceg”: Horseferry Road, Ist A.I.F.
H.Q. in London (B. 20/11/’57), brought
back fragrant memories of a cheap eatery.
The piece de resistance was stewed eels
and cabbage. The window to the street
was usually running with moisture from
the steamy atmosphere inside, but through
it could be seen a sawdust-sprinkled floor,
long wooden tables, and forms to sit on.
From a huge cauldron the cook would be
ladling-out a nauseous mess: slimy eels-
and-cabbage in greenish water was not
my idea of a good meal, but the locals
lapped the stuff up with enthusiasm. I
think it worked out at 4d. a time. Then
there -was the fuel-shop from which
tired-looking women could be seen
emerging with about 4lb. of coal in paper
bags. And, to test my memory, wasn't
that bob-a-night bed-joint called the
Union Jack Club?
❖ ♦> *•>
“Sack”: Among the innumerable
clangsters dispensing weekend ice-cream
in our locality there used to be one who
featured a carillon of bells playing
“Waltzing Matilda.” For some weeks we
didn't hear his signature-tune ; then last
Sunday a carillon burst forth on us
again. If it was the same vendor he had
changed his tune for one more rollicking
and well-known, but hardly a tactful
choice. A harassed Pop, digging deep to
appease not only his own kids but the
kids from next-door playing with ’em,
couldn’t really be flattered by the
chorus, “He's a jolly good fellow.”
“SAY WHEN, BABE!”
“At a symposium of general practitioners Dr.
Harry Bakwin, Prolessor of Clinical Pediatrics
at New York University College of Medicine,
stated that he considered whisky was good for
restless infants.”
When baby starts bawling,
And keeps up the squalling
(A sign that lie’s not quite contented),
Don’t fly off the handle,
Qr just sit and dandle '
Him there till you’re damn’ near
demented.
Why pursue cradle-rocking
When howls strong and shocking
Are rending the early-morn watches,
Or search for dill-water
To give him a snorter
Of that, when you know where the
Scotch is ?
Loose pins in his nappy
Could make him unhappy,
A cyclone at full force inside him
Cause pain in his tummy ;
To push in a dummy
Was once the right drill to provide him
With comfort. Less risky
is good mellow whisky —
Not enough, though to get him QUITE
squiffy.
If insomnia lingers,
Say, one or two fingers
And —bingo !—-he’s out in a jiffy I
Sweet babe, who so often
Had set out to soften
Your Pa up till you had him bested
When flatly refusing
To go for your snoozing
When ordered, or even requested —•
Be kind to your father!
Remember you’re rather
To him under some obligation.
So yell at high level,
And give the poor devil
Excuses to share your libation.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


POLITICAL POINTS
The seasonal epidemic of itchy feet
is attacking Sydney politicians. Cahill is
said to be packing his bags in anticipation
of a.jaunt to New York. Reason given
is that his Government intends to estab-
lish an Agent-General’s office there “as
part of its campaign to attract overseas
investment to N. S. Wales.” It sounds
much more like a plan to provide a cushy
job for a retired politician—someone
about Joe’s size.
• •
Victoria and South Australia seem to
be doing pretty well in the matter of
attracting oversea industries without
going to the expense of opening a per-
manent office in U.S.A., and Queensland
Premier Nicklin is just about to follow the
Bolte example and send a party of busi-
nessmen abroad (at their own expense) to
boost his State. They’re likely to do more
good than a politically appointed A.-G.
• •
A second victim of itchy feet is Lord
Mayor Jensen. In his case it’s a recur-
rence. Last year his corns indicated New
Zealand, where municipal housing-
schemes were alleged to be simply a must
for his magisterial eye. The trip didn’t
eventuate, but recently it was suggested
that the Sydney municipality might benefit
if he carried out an intensive study q£
Charley’s Aunt’s home in Brazil. No
decision yet, but there’s apparently an
invitation for him to go to Israel for that
country’s tenth anniversary celebrations
next April. It might be a good oppor-
tunity to take a look around the bazaars
of the Middle East to get the latest gen on
fruit-barrows.
• •
So they’re going to have ladies in the
Lords? Next thing* we'll be finding
Women in the Gents.!
• •
The Doc having boycotted the St.
Mary’s opening, most Federal Labor men
also included themselves out. Four
turned up —none of 'effi a noted admirer
of Bert. They were M.H.R.s Luchetti,
Morgan and Stewart and Senator Arm-
strong. A pity Eddie Ward didn’t go.
He might have found out the answers to
some of the 14 questions about St. Mary’s
he had on the notice-paper when Parlia-
ment closed for Christmas.
• •
Yesterday J. J. Cahill established a new
record for the longest term in office by
a Labor Premier of N. S. Wales. Till
then the distinction had been held by
W. J. McKell, who was Premier for five
years, eight months and 22 days. The
longest continuous term by a Premier of
any party was recorded by Bertram
Stevens, who, between 1932 and 1939,
was Premier for seven years, two months
and 20 days. Henry Parkes easily
exceeded Stevens’s figures in total, but his
four terms were not continuous. Holman
was Premier for close on seven years,
but half of his term was as leader of a
Labor Government and half as a
Nationalist. Cahill succeeded J. J.
McGirr in the Premiership on April 2,
1952.
• •
Victorian police are on another of
their very well advertised road-blitzes
during the holidays, with special attention
to unroadworthy vehicles. Police bosses
smile complacently and say nothing when
chided about announcing their plans in
advance. They’re acting on the medical
advice that prevention is better than cure
in casualty wards.
• •
While Senators . were exchanging
Christmas greetings on the last day of
the session Senator O'Byrne (Tas.)
remarked that when he was first elected
he was the youngest Senator in the
House. He confessed that it was now
his ambition to be the oldest Senator.
He’s up against pretty hot competition.
Probably every one of his colleagues
cherishes the same ambition, and
Senators are a mighty tough lot.
• *
“Ex-ACT”: In his researches into why
Canberra was the “alcoholic capital’.’ of
Australia, an American professor dedi-
cated to the prevention of alcoholism
suggested a number of causes, including
social pressures and escapism. He didn’t
mention that the Canberra climate,
especially in winter, might have a good
deal to do with the large absorption in
the A.C.T. And he did not appear to
realise that some people even like beer.
• •
Signing the agreement between his
Government and the Commonwealth
Aluminium Corporation for the develop-
ment of the Weipa bauxite-deposits,
Premier Nicklin said it would be the key
that would unlock Queensland’s Gulf
country and make it possible for a white
population to be established there. He
visualised a town of 5000 people at Weipa,
but said that older towns like Cairns and
Cooktown would also benefit from the
opening-up of the north.
• •
When a man who had defaulted pay-
ment of costs in a divorce suit was asked
to explain himself in a Sydney court he
said he had lost £l7OO gambling on cards
and races, including £lOOO “at Warwick
Farm on November 16.” Dovey, J., who
knows his horses and courses as well as
his law, questioned the punter, who said
he couldn’t remember the names of the
horses he had backed or of the men who
had given him the tips. His Honor told
him something else he hadn’t remem-
bered —there were no races at Warwick
Farm on November 16. Jail for
contempt!
• •
Cahill showed a strange lapse of
memory when he said that the Wagga
by-election was “the first time in 16 years
that a sitting Labor candidate had been
defeated in N. S. Wales by a Liberal
candidate.” In 1948-49 Concord, Coogee
and Kogarah were all won by Liberal
candidates in by-elections following the
death of Labor members. The term
“sitting candidate” is an unusual one.
Sitting members don’t contest by-elections
and candidates don’t sit unless they win.
But the Premier’s meaning was clear
enough. And he wasn’t alone in his lapse
of memory; Sydney “Herald” leader-
writer accepted his comment as fact.
• •
Steel-production in the United King-
dom in September was at the annual rate
of 23.8 million tons compared with 21.7
million tons in September, 1956. In every
month this year output has exceeded
the figures for the corresponding month
of 1956. Plans for further expansion are
in train, the target being 29 million tons
by 1962.
• •
It isn’t only in Canberra that the
elected representatives of the people are
so stunned by the amount of money that
could be saved by businesslike economies
they become inert. Two years ago
Melbourne City Council paid a firm of
business-consultants £2500 for the advice
that the council could save £240,000 a
year by streamlining and merging some
council ' departments, giving more
responsibility to senior council officials
and cutting out the more piffling work of
committees of councillors.
• •
“A.U.A.”: A Melbourne “Herald”
columnist, writing of the interest shown
in the advent of Federation, said that
thousands of homes displayed framed
documents attesting that the householder
had voted at the referendum which trans-
formed six colonies into a Common-
wealth. My home is one. Before me as
I write is a document certifying that the
question of an Australasian Federal Con-
stitution was submitted to the electors
of Victoria on July 27, 1899, and that out
of a poll of 163,783 votes 152,653 were
cast in favor of the proposal; further-
more, that the elector (my father) voted
at the said election. The certificate is
fringed with photos,of the six Premiers:
Reid (N.S.W.), Turner (Vic.), Dickson
(Queensland), Kingston (S.A.), Forrest
(W.A.), Braddon (Tas.).
• •
At 2,748,419 tons Queensland’s produc-
tion of coal for the year ended June 30
was a record. Almost all of this was
consumed locally. The annual report of
the Queensland Coal Board includes a
familiar note—potential overseas markets
are being investigated.


Party strengths in the N. S. Wales
Assembly as a result of the Wagga poll
are Labor, 49 ; Liberal, 28 ; Country
party, 15 ; Independents, 2. Excluding
the Speaker this gives Labor an overall
majority of three.
• e
“Who. Will Fire the Ammunition?”—
“Sydney Morning Herald” leader-heading on the
St. Marys munition-filling factory.
Why, Bert Evatt, “Granny,” and “The
Sun,” of course.
• •
The Wagga form-guide published on
this page a couple of weeks ago tipped
Cook to poll the best of the three
Independents and said the other two were
just “in for the ride.” Actually all three
were left at the post. Cook did score best
—233 votes to O’Donoghue's 90 and
Skeers’s 91—but his margin over the
other two was no more than could be
accounted for by his position of first on
the card. The score needed to save a
candidate’s deposit was under 1100, but
the three together didn’t total much more
than a third of that.
• •
The move initiated by Senator Laught
to have South Australian time brought
into line with Australian Eastern time
is gaining ground in Adelaide. Last
week the finance dommittee of the City
Council recommended support for the
change, and the Chamber of Manufac-
tures proposes to take-up the matter
vc*th the Premier in the New Year. Of
62 replies to the chamber’s circular
asking for an expression of opinion, 58
were in favor.
• •
There has probably never been a time
when party strengths in the various State
Parliaments have been as even as at
present. Labor rules in three States; Libs,
or Country party in the other three, in
N. S. Wales Cahill has a majority of three,
in Westralia Hawke’s margin is seven and
in Tasmania the Cosgrove Government
holds a tenuous command of an Assembly
where the tally of members is 15-all and
the Opposition provides the Speaker.
Both Hawke and Cosgrove have to con-
tend with a hostile Legislative Council.
Nicklin's Country-party-Liberal Gov-
ernment in Queensland has a majority of
seven, and Bolte’s Liberals in Victoria hold
34 seats in a House of 66. In the Upper
House Bolte is without a majority and
has been thwarted on more than one
occasion by an alliance of Labor and
Country-party M.L.C.s. Playford’s abso-
lute majority in the South Australian
Parliament disappeared when his party
lost the Wallaroo seat a few months ago,
and if the three Independent members
vote with Labor he must depend on the
Speaker’s casting-vote.
• •
River Murray water supplied by pipe-
line to Adelaide is proving a boon to the
S.A. capital this dry summer, but the cost
of pumping from Mannum is consider-
able, and will probably mean higher
water-rates. Still, despite the drought,
Adelaide is free from water-restrictions.
Sydney suburbanites are paying higher
rates to watch their gardens wither away.
« •
Chief Justice Mansfield has extended
until February 18 the injunction restrain-
ing the. Queensland Literature Board of
Review from publishing an order banning
distribution in Queensland of the
magazine “Weekend.” Last week he
adjourned the hearing of the action
brought by the paper against the board
and reserved the matter for consideration
by the Full Court.
• •
Maritime unions in Sydney deny that
they have placed a ban on the new
Howard Smith steamer Macedon because
the owners did not engage an Australian
crew 1 for the trip out. No ban, perhaps,
but there’s also no crew.
• •
Australia’s Colombo Plan contributions
to Indonesia include a number of double-
decker buses. When these were shipped
from Sydney they bore small brass-
plates commemorating their origin. The
Bulletin has heard from men who saw
them landed in Djakarta that the plates
were removed before the buses were
placed in commission. Although there is
no reason why gifts should be plastered
with the name of the donor, a small
inscription is usually considered to
enhance the value of a gift. Mr. Casey
might inquire whether this report is
correct. If so, perhaps we could save
the cost of the brass-plates on future
gifts.
“Ash Street”: Quite apart from its
political significance, the people employed
by the Liberal party in the Federal
headquarters and in the N.S.W. division
in Ash Street, Sydney, were highly pleased
by Wal Fife's victory in Wagga. A
decade or so ago Wal used to work in
the party offices in Sydney, and he is
recalled as a keen youngster with a most
pleasing personality.
w •
According to the Victorian Toy Manu-
facturers’ Association, Australian toys are
selling very well indeed against strong
Japanese competition and shops have
been asking for more supplies every few
days because parents have learned to
choose good design and sound con-
struction. There’s no doubt the better
Australian toys are very good indeed;
a thousand young demons couldn’t make
much impression on, for instance, a
Cyclops cycle. There’s always a market
for the superior article ; even the inverts
will buy Australian when it is better.
• - •
\ .
Ever seen a policeman blush? N. S.
Wales Police Commissioner Delaney
apparently spends-much of his time when
abroad trying to hide his blushes. Speak-
ing at a Christmas-party at the C. 1.8.
after Attorney-General Downing had
reported an 8 per cent, improvement in
the crime-clearance record since 1953, he
said that the figures showed beyond doubt
that his police-force was “the best law-
enforcement organisation in Australasia”
and that when overseas authorities asked
him to quote his crime-clearance figures
he often felt embarrassed because they
were so high.
HAY, HELL—AND WAGGA


PESONAL ITEMS
Retiring after a record 21 years with
the Victorian State Electricity Commis-
sion, Sir Andrew Fairley is also chairman
of the Shepparton Preserving Co., itself
a big concern. Through the company’s
ramifications Sir Andrew has done much
to advance the Goulburn Valley. He had
his term as a Commissioner twice ex-
tended, and has seen large-scale develop-
ment in the generation of power and
light for industry, home and farm.
• •
“L. 8.5.”: Still a good cricketer at 48,
the 10th Viscount Cobham, N.Z.’s new
G. has been invited to practice with
Wellington’s Plunket Shield squad. A
former Worcester captain, he was a
leg-spinner and powerful hitter in an
M.C.C. team in N.Z. before the war.
There’s cricketing blood in the family:
the Bth and 9th Viscounts were M.C.C.
presidents.
• . •
Queenslander Dr. S. A. Trout was
recently elected a Fellow of the Royal
Australian Chemical Institute in recog-
nition of his work in chemistry in Aus-
tralia. Graduating with honors in
chemistry at Queensland University in
1925, in 1928 he won a C.5.1.R.0.
research-studentship to Cambridge Uni-
versity, where he obtained his Doctorate
of Philosophy. In 1945 he became
assistant-director of horticulture at
Queensland’s Department of Agriculture,
and has been director since 1947.
• •
“Manamoi”: The late Colonel C. G.
Ingate (B. 27/11 /’57) began his soldier-
ing as a gunner in the sth Field Artillery
Brigade during World War I. Former
fellow-members include Lieut.-General
Sir Frank Berryman, the late Major-
General George Vasey, Major-Generals
H. W. Lloyd and L. E. Beavis, Brigadiers
G. V. Moriarty and “Wingy” Thompson.
The brigade served in Egypt and on the
Suez Canal in 1915, the Somme in 1916
and Bullecourt in 1917, and at times
suffered terrific casualties ; one grim day
in 1917 Sergeant J. Ewen (M.C., D.C.M.,
M.M.) found himself commanding a
battery, by right of seniority.
Sergeant Clyde Ingate won his D.C.M.
at the second battle of Bullecourt, and
was commissioned in the field. A
dedicated soldier, he joined the peace-
time Army, and was appointed C.O. of
the 18th Field Artillery Brigade in 1934.
Perhaps his happiest day was Anzac
Day, 1940, when he was appointed to
form and command a successor to his
old unit—the 2/sth Field Regiment; and
his saddest, the day in February, 1941,
when ill-health forced him to leave his
reg'ment without having commanded it
in action. But he had laid good founda-
tions, as was demonstrated a few months
later in Syria, where the regiment
collected a swag of decorations, .includ-
ing the first and only V.C. awarded to
an Australian artilleryman —A. R.
Cutler’s.
Colonel Ingate kept in touch with his
boys through the Regiment’s Comforts
Fund, and, after the war, through its
unusually active Regimental Association,
right up till his last illness.
BOOKS
Captain J. M. Villiers, successor to
Rear-Admiral Mcßeath as chief of the
N.Z. Naval Staff, is 50, the son of a Rear-
Admiral, and moves up to that rank him-
self in January. Joined the Navy in
1925, served as squadron signal-officer
and flag-lieutenant to the admiral com-
manding the battle-cruiser squadron from
1939 to 1941, was in the Renown during
the action with the Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau, in Warspite at the battle of
Narvik, and was in several other big
scraps.
• •
Maurice Charles Cullity, Westralia’s
Rhodes Scholar for 1958, is 22 and has
recently passed his Law finals with 19
distinctions in 20 subjects. As a school-
boy he captained Perth’s Aquinas
College and represented the school in
cricket, football and athletics. More
recently he represented W.A. University
at cricket and football, and played A-
grade cricket for his own suburb,
Nedlands. While at the university he was
secretary of the Blackstone Society. He
will go to Wadham College, Oxford, and
read for a Civil Laws degree, specialising
in International Law. His father is
Superintendent of Dairying in the Wes-
tralian Department of Agriculture.
• •
Lyle Blair, director for the past six
years of the Michigan University Press,
was sketched in Sydney by Dubois when
Blair recently visited his
home-town. Blair, who is
40, intends to come back
here to live some day, but
in the meantime is pretty
well involved in M.U.P.’s
huge publishing pro-
grammes. Apart from book
talk—quite a few Aus-
tralian works come off the
Michigan University presses
—Blair had some interest-
ing comments to make, as
an Australian resident in
America, on education.
He considers American
education more truly egali-
tarian than the Australian
brand ; notes some Uneven-
ness in America, on the
university level, but makes
the comment that this has
been somewhat over-
emphasised, and is gradu-
ally being ironed-out; and
suggests that there will be
some lowering of Australian
standards in, particularly,
secondary education in the
next few years, as an
inevitable consequence of
immigration. The same
happened in America, he
said. Children speaking one
language at home, another
at school, are (with a few
brilliant exceptions) handi-
capped to some extent,
which slows down the
general progress; and
physical overcrowding of
classrooms also has its effect
on standards'.
Lyle Blair talked with the
same brand of quiet knowledge about a
dozen different subjects. He joined the
R.A.F. in England early in War 11, and
had a more than mildly interesting
service career—with an inter-service
Intelligence unit (Political and Subversive)
i n the Middle East, with an Escape and
Evasion crowd in Europe. After that he
became manager of the British Publishing
Guild, then went to Michigan University
# #
, r , . c ,, . . ~ , , ,
Michael Sadleir, who died recently in
England at 68—he would have been 69 on
Christmas Day—is most widely known
now, perhaps, as the author of Fanny by
Gaslight, a period-piece of London in
the 1870’s which was filmed in 1944 ; this,
and his Forlorn Sunset, and his bio-
graphy of Lord Lytton, Bulwer and his


Wife, had a wide appeal in their day. But
he was also a serious student of the
Victorian novel, and his full-scale
appraisal of Trollope has been credited
with the latter-day revival of interest in
this quiet but rewarding observer of the
comedy of manners and character. A
great book-collector, Sadleir was also a
power in the publishing world, and, in
one capacity or another, a good many
Australians have had friendly dealings
with him over the years. Norman Lindsay
knew him well, some time back; and
more recently J. E. Mgcdonnell, whose
series of novels about the Australian
Navy are published by Constable’s, has
carried on an interesting author-to-
publisher correspondence with him.
• *
“Symonym”: In Melbourne to look
over drinking habits, Dr. W. A. Scharffen-
berg w r as surprised at his first survey by
the mildness of it. He is “executive
director of the International Commission
for the Prevention of Alcoholism,” but
if he goes round Australia talking to the
press like that, he’ll be run out by the
wowsers. He will never be surprised by
the mildness of the Australian wowser.
•' •
N. H. Law (herewith) is Director of
the recently established Meat Industry
Research Institute of New Zealand, a
body which may be expected to give a
useful lead to large sections of primary
producers, not only in New Zealand. The
function of the institute will be to foster
and undertake research into the meat in-
dustry generally ; with, of course, a
special emphasis on the production of
meat for export. The Department of
Agriculture, the Department of Scientific
and Industrial Research, the N.Z. Meat
Producers’ Board, and all the freezing
companies are represented in the organi-
sation. Law, who had been holding down
a top Government meat-research job
until his present appointment, is 44, an
MEAT
Auckland University College M.Sc., and
Fellow of both the Royal Institute of
Chemistry and the N.Z. Institute of
Chemistry. He was selected from a field
of 30 applicants from England, U.S.A.,
Australia and New Zealand.
e •
“C.R.”: The retirement of W.A.
Police Commissioner T. H. Andersen,
which takes effect on January 5, gives the
move-on order to the two next-senior
officers of the Westralian force. Both
men (who are sons of policemen, by the
way). Acting Commissioner James M.
O’Brien, and Acting Deputy Commis-
sioner Hugh McLernon, were given the
“acting” appointments when Commis-
sioner Andersen was seconded to the
chairmanship of the Betting Control
Board in January, 1955. They will now
drop the prefix “Acting” from their
official designations.
The new Commissioner, 56-year-old
J. M. O’Brien, became a policeman by
accident. He qualified as an assaying
chemist at the Perth Technical College,
worked at Fremantle Smelters, and went
on to an assaying job at Kalgoorlie.
When the mining depression of the early
’twenties put him out of work, he joined
the police. He was stationed at Broome
in the more boisterous era of pearling, and
trod several country beats before he was
finally transferred to Perth. When the
expansion of the force made necessary
the creation of Deputy Commissioner in
October, 1953, O’Brien, then chief-
inspector, was appointed to the new post.
His successor, both as chief inspector
and deputy-commissioner, 58-year-old
Hugh McLernon, joined the force in
December, 1920, becoming a detective in
1925. Twelve years of his service with
the C. 1.8., of which he became inspector-
in-charge in 1952, were spent on the gold-
stealing detection staff. He became chief-
inspector in October, 1955.
• •
“Uramao”: N.Z. Rhodes Scholars this
year are D. Vere-Jones (age 21), product
of Victoria University of Wellington, a
8.A., and’G. A. Wright (23), an M.A.
from the University of Auckland. The
former’s speciality is mathematics, the
latter’s chemistry.
• •
Colin P. Haselgrove, managing-director
of Walter Reynell and Sons, Ltd.,
Reynella, South Australia, is widely
known in the wine world and, perhaps, is
only slightly less well known as an ocean-
racing yachtsman; a Homeric com-
bination.
He took the diploma course at Rose-
worthy Agricultural College, and was
Gold Medallist, in the days before the
specialised oenology curriculum, but
learnt quite a lot about oenology and viti-
culture from the course in those subjects
established by the late Professor A. J.
Perkins. After experience with Angoves,
Ltd., and Thomas Hardy and Sons, Ltd.,
he studied at France’s famous Mont-
pellier, and in Algeria. He became
cenologist to the Thomas Hardy firm in
1928, a couple of years later became
technical adviser and a director of the
WINE
newly formed Emu Wine Co., Pty. Ltd.,
of Morphett Vale (a subsidiary of the old-
established Emu Wine company, of
London), the following year joined
Thomas Hardy’s board, and in 1938
became managing-director of the (Aus-
tralian) Emu Wine company. He
resigned these positions to become
managing-director of Walter Reynell and
Sons when that company was recon-
structed in 1953, and is also a director
of Mildura Winery, Ltd.
Senior vice-president of the Wine-
makers’ Association of South Australia,
a delegate to the Federal Viticultural
Council, member of the Council of the
Wine Research Institute, and on the State
Committee of C.5.1.R.0., he is also a
foundation-member of Adelaide’s Bacchus
Club and had a good deal to do with the
Beefsteak and Burgundy Club movement,
on whose behalf he recently presented a
charter to a club in Brisbane.
As to the wine-dark sea . . . He's been
vice-commodore of the Royal South
Australian Yacht Squadron, sailed his
45ft. yawl, Nerida, in the 1948 and 1950
Sydney-Hobart—winning the 1950—and
now owns the 35ft. sloop Cooroyba,
which he sailed from Sydney in 1952,
and back to Sydney in 1955, to compete
in the Hobart race, in which, that year,
he finished second.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Dr. W. J. (Bill) Sheehan, who
toured Great Britain with the Rugby Union
Waratahs in 1927-28. He was a brilliant attack-
ing five-eighth or centre. At The King’s School
he was a star footballer, as his son has been
in recent years.
At Newcastle. W. J. Goold, president of the
Newcastle and Hunter District Historical Society
since its formation in 1936. He wrote extensively
on the district’s history.


ABORIGINAHTIES
“I'd rather have a good lick on the nose."
T>LOWED if I think much of counting
sheep as a means of getting to
sleep! Anyone who knows anything
about sheep knows that it is nearly im-
possible to make them jump a hurdle.
They go around and about it, away from
it and anywhere but over it. At least,
that’s what happens when I count sheep.
Of course, once I get them started, they
go over much too quickly and pile up
one on top of another on the other side
of the fence, some with broken legs. These
have to be destroyed, which causes a
lot of misery and is a shocking waste of
money. Then if I try to make them go
over, slowly I find my thoughts wander-
ing between the jumps. Their plaintive
bleatings keep me awake as the mothers
wander around looking for lost lambs. —
“New Chum.”
* * * •
“Sackfair”: Until about 15 years ago
I only knew the shiny-black starling whose
plumage never varies beyond a brown
speckled effect at certain stages of
moulting. Then arrived a yellow-beaked
variety with white markings on the lower
wings, and a musical seesawing range of
notes. Whence he came I have never been
able to establish, but he is firmly dug-in
on the N.S.W. central coast, and gradu-
ally, although not in very large numbers,
creeping inland. Old starling and new
seem to accept each other without ques-
tion, but never fraternise. The more
recent arrival has a peculiarity: although
a bird that hops never walks, and vice
versa, the new starling generally walks,
but will change to a hop, leaning forward
to the movement in a comical manner
like a learner on pogo-stick.
* * *
“Alma”: The nondescript brindle dog
was running a temperature and was under
observation by the vet., who gave him to
me to “special.” No matter where 1 put
his drinking-tin he always managed to
upset it. Then I watched him from the
window. He carefully and cautiously
hooked over the tin, watched the water
run over the cement path and on to the
soil beside, then scuffed a hole in the
softened and cooled soil and flopped
down with a grin of content.
• * « * *
“Norque”: Who wants to go tramping
around with bulging knapsack and sore
feet to study nature? Right here in my
suburban garden, just three miles from
the post-office, I came upon two king-
fishers, dapper in their best bluey-green
cutaway weskits; two bouncing teasing
bower-birds with maroon flash on napes ;
“Laffing Jacky” at breakfast-time on the
boundary - fence, bashing stag-beetles
snapped up from their poinciana home,
and (later in the menu) a frog slipped
down the hatch. Then about 30 redbeaks
or waxbills —many nest in the needle-pines
—which muster morning and evening on
the phone-wires before and after sojourn-
ing forth to hunting-grounds ; two pee-
wees chasing the mower for “today’s
special” ; several honeyeaters and —most
FISHING, NORTH QUEENSLAND
Down by the hull at ebbing tide
The foaming waters skirl and ride,
Making fantastic shapes that grapple
The surfaces they dance and dapple.
Here the venerable Straw Hat Snow
At afternoon was wont to go
To drop within the swirling waters
A line to buy his hard-won porters,
His ales, his claret, beer or gin,
In ruby glass or rusty tin,
As fish for barter he could pass
To buy the heavenly foaming glass.
And all the noon at peace he sat
Sheltered within his palm-leaf hat,
Dreaming upon the tidal brink
Of all the potions he would drink.
He saw the Pub at evening crowned
By patronage from all around,
prom canefield and from timber-mill,
With every Harry, Dick and Bill,
The gay fraternity of men
Gathered when evening comes again
To lean upon the counter brown
And speed the countless schooners down.
And there, within the dim recess
He conjured up his lovely Bess,
Whose hands were deft upon the tap,
And drew his beer as baby's pap.
Swimming within his noonday dream
She rolled her eyes like prunes in cream,
Dangling in her gold-ringed hand
The fish now gasping on the sand :
“Two fish, two beers, or muscats three,
Now, Snowy boy, what will it be ?”
“Ah, Bess, you little beaut, you know
The beer that goes down slow, so slow
“Is best for men whose parched-up gullets
Constrict above their hard-earned
mullets —
Those fish have only left the sea
To buy two beers for you and me."
And then, above the evening din
She bears the foaming schooners in,
And, slightly absent-minded then
With evening light and shouting men,
She pulls an extra beer or two
And slides the glasses down to Snow,
Who’s crouched upon the three-legged
stool
Down by the barrels where it’s cool;
And reverently he slakes his lips
In intimate and treasured sips,
Letting the mundane go, and wish
To dine in state on chips and fish.
The surge of jovial conversation
Contains for him no fascination —-
“When I was up at Bartle Frere”
Is powerless to lure him from his beer.
In vain the bell for dinner rings,
Straw Hat is now akin to kings,
‘‘Bring me another stirrup-cup,
And draw the cosy barrels up.”
“More beer !” the mighty Snowy calls,
And down below the counter falls —
And then, around his callused feet
The nibbling tide begins to creep,
He wakes, and in the lieu of porter
He drains a bottle of wan water,
And shouldering his empty sack
Plods off along the homeward track.
a.c.t.
JOAN STEEGE.




brilliant sight—three green parakeets. In
the postbox William, our grandfather
green frog (nearly 3in. across the
cranium), whose latest effort was
swallowing about two-thirds of an 18in.
mottle-grey snake. In the roof a
quartet of miners, yesterday afternoon
seen chasing a 3ft. snake across the lawn.
* * * *
“N. 7 Y.”: Back in 1920, when the
late Angus Campbell was managing
Carandotta, on the Georgina (W.Q.), he
left the township of Urandangie one
evening in his old Buick Six utility just
as the dinner-bell at the pub began to
ring. Twelve dusty miles and two gates
further on he passed the Walgra home-
stead while the dinner-bell was ringing ;
a further 27 bush-miles, with four gates
and two sandy crossings of Moona
Creek in between, he pulled-up at Caran-
dotta homestead just as the dinner-bell
was ending its summons. How’s that for
a motoring record —39 miles, heavy track,
six gates, two sandy crossings of a stick-
fast creek—all strung over the imperious
call to a meal? No wonder old-timers
say that cars ain’t as good these days!
* * * *
“Maitri”: Between Killara and
Gordon (on Sydney's North Shore) a fine
"I must have a go at combing-out this fuzz of mine one of these days.”
flowering-gum flourishes near the railway-
line, where four roads meet. Because,
25 years ago, the spot was considered
dangerous for traffic it.was decided to
“splay” the corners, and the gum was
about to be removed when the news
reached J. G. Lockley (“Redgum” of
gardening fame). He raised such a com-
motion that the tree was spared, though
the powers-that-were were reluctant and
unhappy. “There’ll be some bad smashes
there with the gum blocking the view,”
they prophesied gravely. It is a tricky-
looking corner: nevertheless, though
there’ve been plenty of collisions in the
district none has occurred at that spot,
while every summer the tree’s masses of
orange-red blossom are a bright memorial
to that other “Redgum.”
* * *
“The Bunyip”: “Mrs. J. R.” (B.
20/11/ ’57) says “other night-flyers be-
come stupefied when daylight overtakes
them and will often remain crouched in
the one place till dusk,” then asks, “Is it
true also of the frogmouth?” Can’t say,
Mrs., but it's true enough of the rock-’n’-
roll addict who somehow or other still
adheres to our payroll.
• ■* + *
“Arndee”: A hollow bloodwood stump
just off the highway has a multi-purpose
use. It acts as a corner straining-post;
a nursery for young parrots, and a grave
for a fox. A deformity in the shape of a
hollow bulge of knotty wood (common in
bloodwoods) projects outwards from the
trunk a few feet from the ground. The
shell of this knot has been bored into by
a pair of rosella-parrots and two young
reared in a secure nest. A fox found the
hide-out, and, apparently unable to en-
large the entrance, climbed the stump so
as to enter the dining-room from the top,
became stuck, and there perished, his tail
and hindquarters the only parts visible.
Not so cunning!
“H.C.8.”: In New South he who gets
the urge to grow the native Christmas-
bush usually starts off with the good in-
tention of simulating natural conditions,
planting the shrub in a few bucketfuls of
the hungry soil from which it was dug
up. Often the plant survives the trans-
planting, and flourishes. Then, just when
it seems to be completely orientated and
domesticated, it dies—killed with kind-
ness. My mate, however, determined to
withstand temptation, refrained from
giving his shrub its share of fertiliser,
deliberately fed it with hungry soil, and
cut down its water to the very limit. The
shrub merely marked time. Then an
expert offered advice: “Dig in iron-filings
around the roots —the species thrives in
ironstone country.” He did, and last
Christmas the bush was a sight to
remember. Recently it wilted and died.
A post-mortem revealed the cause —a
solid mass of corroded iron choking the
roots.
* * * *
“Harbel”: One lad was about 13, the
other perhaps 11 ; their conversation
reached me as, with pride in their hearing
and joy in their gait, they were taking
the purchase home. “Best bargain we
ever made!” declared the older boy.
“And it won’t take long to pay it off,
neither. You figure it out yourself: A
quid deposit and seven-bob a week ; that’s
how many seven-bobs inter seven-pound-
ten? Let’s see ... a hundred-and-fifty . ..
say, twenty-two . . . twenty-two weeks.
And then we’ll buy yours.” They went
on their happy way, with the purchase, an
old red-roan pony, plodding along between
them.
* * * *
“Binneguy”: The red kangaroo (of
which the “blue-flyer” is the female) will
take average hops, when chased, of from
20ft. to 25ft., according to the terrain. I
have a recorded jump of 38ft., but this
was when the ’roo was forced to leap a
gully to escape. The grey has a maximum
of about sft. shorter than the red. As
to fence-jumping, one of the kanga’s
unusual features is his ability to go
straight over a fence sideways while
hopping along parallel to it. And a
’roo can vault a 6ft. fence from a stand,
whether facing it or side-on.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
20/11/’57) could be right about the abo.
fire-starting in a marri socket with a tea-
tree twirler, but spearwood usually means
just one eucalypt ( Doratoxylon ) or those
seven slow-growing acacias that provide
the heaviest and hardest wood in Aus-
tralia, any one of which will, if heated to
212 deg. F., give off an interesting odor
ranging from violets to raspberry-jam.
At school, cane rulers sawed vigorously
into kauri desk-tops plus shredded coir-
matting got results, but we could have set
the world on fire if we had known the
abos.’ important technique of producing
staccato spurts of wind by using his
tongue between his lips as a stopper while
blowing on the punk.
* * * *
“Mullbong”: Travelled perforce to
Melbourne in 1912 on the old S.S. Roto-
mahana on what I understood was her
last voyage. I had missed the cracker-
jack turbine-steamer through delays of the
Hobart-to-Launceston Express. The
“flyer” had stopped on several occasions
to off-load quantities of firewood from a
truck ; for quite half-an-hour while the
driver paid a visit to a lady-friend ; a
little later while the guard slowly made
his way past the waiting carriages to
drive a cow off the line ; and an hour
later while the guard repeated the per-
formance ... a facetious passenger
wanted to know if it was the same cow.
The crossing of Bass Strait was unpleas-
antly rough. The old tub pitched and


tossed and slewed and rolled. I saw the
hat of a passenger standing in the bow
swept by the wind from his head seem-
ingly beyond the point of no return, but
the roll-over of the ship brought it within
reach of my hand in the stern. You can
imagine the surprise of the passenger
when I walked forward and gave him
back his lid.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: “Swanee’s” cafe-
proprietor’s wife (B. 20/11/ ’57) might
have acquired her ideas on apparel for
attending fires in an outback Queensland
•town I visited: drought, depression and
dwindling population; businessmen, in-
cluding some of the many publicans, were
all well-insured, there was no fire-brigade,
and the tinder-dry old weatherboard
buildings burned like torches. So the
town-dwellers were treated to a series of
spectacular nocturnal fires ; bets were laid
on the time and place of the next “mysteri-
ous conflagration,” and women turned
the occasions into fashion-parades, each
keeping a glamorous nightgown in
readiness for the alarm. The whole town
was when the insurance companies
managed to stop the fun.
* * * *
“Uramao”: When Mount Tarawera
(N.Z.) belched in 1886, destroying the
pink and white terraces, it also buried a
Maori meeting-house in mud and lava.
But the fine engravings wefe restored, and
Lord Onslow (Governor 1889-1892)
bought the house from the owners, took
it to England and had it erected in Clan-
don Park. Heavy death-duties obliged
the Onslows to dispose of the estate to
the National Trust; the Maori House
was neglected, but an N.Z. Government
offer to assist in its restoration has been
accepted and the best Maori house out-
side N.Z. will again be a feature of the
Clandon Palladian manor.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: These days you don’t meet
many ’roo-shooters in the bush. In W.A.
before the war the nor’-west and Murchi-
son districts were full of them —mostly
young Cow-cockies from the south knock-
ing-up a cheque in the off-season. But
the high cost of ammunition has put a
stop to that. Today, .22 high-velocity
bullets cost about 2s. each ; .303 ammo
goes higher. With first-grade skins only
reaching 4s. a pound, the game no longer
even pays for petrol. As a result, ’roos
have increased to numbers that threaten
the Merino and his squatter-owner.
* * * *
“L.R.M.H.”: “Wireless time” is just
one of those things that we take for
granted. It would have been more appre-
ciated 50 or 60 years ago, as witness that
pioneer scribbler who complained in an
early Southern Cross (W.A.) paper that
“When making an appointment for any
particular time, one never knows whether
it is to be ‘Mine time,’ ‘Post-office time,’
‘Railway time’ or ‘Warden’s Court time.’ ”
A schoolmaster of the same place and
period also noted, “There are several
times kept, each mine having its own time.
The people keep the time of the mine on
which they are working. One of these is
twenty minutes late!” The effect on his
pupils’ punctuality had evidently been
disruptive.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Exports from Papua
and New Guinea in 1956-57 weren’t quite
a record, but they were still good, with
“We only serve what's on the menu."
copra and other coconut-products exceed-
ing £7 million, rubber, gold and timber
each exceeding £1 million, and cocoa,
being valued at more than £460,000.
Other useful items included marine shell
(mostly trochus), coffee, crocodile skins,
peanuts and passionfruit. The value of
war-salvage work is shown by the fact
that “miscellaneous exports, including
scrap metal,” were valued at £1,305,000.
* * * *
“Maitri”: Hosing some treasured
carnations in our front garden
on Sydney’s drought-stricken North
Shore the other day, I ruminated sadly
on the promises made by the Water Board
back in 1941-42: within a couple of years,
when work at Warragamba was com-
pleted, we’d never again be limited for
water. During the five minutes I allowed
a trickle to play over the plants, no fewer
than seven passers-by warned me I was
liable to a heavy fine. Finally I began
to get scared. Perhaps it is illegal to use
a hose, even if it’s only siphoning away
your dirty bathwater?
* * * *
“Snobby”: Why don’t goats receive
more of the merit which is their due?
They were, and still are to some extent,
the mainstay of the back-country. Every
bit of a settlement had its flock of goats ;
many carriers had 20 to 30 nannies and
their kids following the wagon ; a married
boundary-rider couldn’t make a home
without his missus had goats to growl
about and worry over. They supplied
milk, mutton, sundry other things, and
in the townships they hauled wood and
water and were the pets and pride of
small boys. Windorah (Q.) had a human
population of about 30-odd, but over
3000 goats grazed on the common and
came home to their respective yards as
the sun was setting. Many human babies
couldn’t have existed but for the humble
nanny.
* * * Us
“Sevenelms”: “Stanus” asks (B.
11 /12 / ’57) have there been bigger sticks
than the two 60ft. pieces of 24in. square
timber cut on the N.S.W. South Coast in
the ’twenties. At Betotan (British
North Borneo) an intsia log was squared
in 1930 by a Chinese axeman to finish,
no wane, 72in. x 72in. x 24ft. It took the
S.S. Hinsang’s jumbo-rig to load it, and
at Kowloon a hand-sawyer cut it to 72in.
x l|in. planks for one-piece junk-rudders.
The big Chinese junks (keels 120 ft.) ride
their typhoons out “stern-to” and the
blunt-end assembly has to be robust.
Contrary to Australian practice, a
Chinese squarer stands on his log wield-
ing an axe with only an Bin. edge, but
weighing 111 b. and with an Bft. handle;
and, like his Aussie counterpart, he attains
surprising smoothness. This intsia wood
occurs in New Guinea, and its durability
recommended its use for carved grave-
markers for our troops. It is the only tree
the orang-utan will nest in because its
large girth and smooth bark stop the
pythons coming upstairs.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Sharemarket Steadier
AS dealings on the Australian
Stock Exchanges drew to a
ciose there was a rally in many
cases from the low points
established on December 12.
Yields from market leaders
were still very low compared
with the ruling bond rate, indi-
cating the effect of institu-
tional buying (fixed-trusts and
staff - funds) on present - day
investment prices.
However, the prudent private
investor will stand well advised
to study yields, present and
prospective, in buying for his
own portfolio, and to note that
where high earning-power is
being accompanied by plans
for large-scale expansion and
development, in a number of
cases much of that earning-
power will be ploughed-back as
capital, and will not reach the
shareholder as dividend.
In the long-run this method
of finance will result in still-
higher earning-power, and the
shareholder of the future
period should reap the benefit.
Whether that shareholder
will be the same person as
today’s shareholder will depend
upon how long present buyers
are prepared (or able) to wait
for their benefits.
The year 1958 will be a test-
ing one in many respects, both
in Australia and abroad.
Investors should take heed of
the base-metal market, which
is so often a pointer to other
markets.
An Investment Hint
WHEN the prices of good-
** quality ordinary shares
are on the dip, as recently,
it is a sound idea to sort-out
10 or a dozen stocks of
undoubted merit and appeal
and watch them in anticipa-
tion of bargain prices, and to
act firmly and promptly when
the bargain appears to be
offering.
A number of attractive
shares which had gone up
out of most investors’ reach
during the past year have lately
come back nearer to what
can be considered a reasonable
price.
Further market shakeouts are
likely, and the time may not
be far off when favorable
buying opportunities will
occur.
It is of great advantage to
have studied a few selected
investments well in advance of
market recessions in order to
act with decision at the appro-
priate time.
The B.H.P. Issue
TAEALINGS in the rights to
the B.H.P. new issue are
scheduled to begin when the
Stock Exchanges reopen in
January, and applications close
on February 24.
On December 19 the old
shares, cum rights, were dealt
in at 465., which represented an
ex-rights price of about 425.
Rights to the previous new
issue were dealt in heavily at
around 205., representing 40s.
fully-paid. Holders of those
shares have since had a two-
for-nine bonus-issue, their divi-
dends, and now a one-for-five
issue.
The past year has certainly,
been profitable, from the
market viewpoint principally,
tor B.H.P. shareholders.
The Economic Outlook
r T'HE National Bank of Aus-
A tralasia, in its monthly
Summary of Australian Con-
ditions, sees a fundamental
alteration in the world
economic outlook.
During the closing months of
1957, it says, a change has
become apparent in the world
economic scene. In a number
of important countries, the
continued business and
industrial expansion of recent
.years, along with the general
tendency toward inflationary
conditions,- has been replaced
by a levelling-off in economic
activity and some decline in
world prices for a number of
basic commodities.
The stimulus provided by
post-war recovery programmes,
by restocking campaigns and
by the effects of the Korean
war “boom” seems to have
waned. Broadly, production
and supplies appear to have
caught-up with, or overtaken,
market demands which no
doubt have been moderated by
the anti-inflationary policies
pursued by several nations.
With its own special features,
a similar development has
occurred in Australia, the bank
notes. Uncertainties in the
seasonal outlook, expectations
of lower export income, a
quieter tone in retail trading,
and a somewhat reduced rate
of expansion in employment,
have contributed to a slightly
less-optimistic business outlook
than that at the close of last
year. Undoubtedly, too, the
more restrained outlook ruling
abroad has had psychological
repercussions upon the assess-
ment by our own businessmen
and investors of future pros-
pects here.
Key Role of U.S.A.
Ihe National gives prime
attention to the outlook in the
"O.K. , Crocker, but next time you want to borrow bank
funds, kindly see the Loan Department first”
U.S.A., which by virtue of its
size and vast scale of produc-
tion, “is possibly the one
country capable of initiating a
world-wide business recession.”
Since December, 1956, indus-
trial output in that country
has gradually declined, mainly
occasioned by lower produc-
tion of steel, durable goods and
capital-equipment. Though the
gross value of U.S. national
output reached a record annual
rate during the September
quarter, this increase repre-
sented little real achievement,
being mainly accounted for by
higher prices.
Recently, weaker Stock
Exchange quotations, a slow-
ing-down in the rate of fixed
capital-investment, and declin-
ing personal incomes, appear to
have brought a marked
deterioration in U.S. business
confidence.
Fortunately, however, if
seems that a very rapid reversal
of interest-rate policy has been
undertaken by the Federal
Reserve System to help meet
this situation. Only in August,
the Federal Reserve discount-
rate was raised from 3 p.c. p.a.
to 31 p.c. p.a., but during
November it was reduced back
to 3 p.c. p.a. Also, according
to press reports, there may be
other steps taken toward some
moderate easing of credit.
The ftifluence of events in the
United States may be more
pronounced now than in 1953-
54, when a recession in
business activity there pro-
duced virtually no reper-
cussions elsewhere. Then the
expansionary effects of large-
scale programmes of develop-
ment being undertaken in
Europe probably offset any
dampening transatlantic
influence. Today, however, the
rate of industrial expansion in
the United Kingdom and Ger-
many shows evidence of
declining, and their previous
immunity might have now
disappeared,
The United Kingdom
' , • . TT . ,
Recent events United
Kingdom, says the National,
are a^so contributing to the
more subdued level of activity,
Primarily designed to stem
the drain on sterling, the
stringent measures taken by the
U.K. Government in mid-
September also testify to its
determination to arrest the
inflationary spiral which has
persisted for much of the last
decade. Productivity gains
seem to have failed to keep
p ace w ith wage-increases in
British industry, and recent
months have witnessed a
strengthening of the resolution
that relative stability in prices
and costs must be achieved,
Some slackening in the rate of


z
ri
\
Money by Surprise!
The doorbell rings . . . it's a letter containing money for you.
Money by surprise is a wonderful opportunity to establish an
A.N.Z. Savings Bank Account for yourself, wife or kiddies.
A.N.Z. Bank has personal Cheque Accounts, too. These are
simple to use, avoid the worry of keeping money in the bouse,
and are a great help in controlling your budget.
Remember, A.N.Z. Bank is distinguished by its quick, personal
service, and by this shield . . .
A-N-Z
W
AN Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED Savings Accounts
ANZ42S. 1 BSO
industrial and business expan-
sion is foreseen.
Commodity Prices
A persistent decline in world
commodity prices, more pro-
nounced of late, also accen-
tuates the rather disquieten-
ing outlook suggested by the
easier tempo of economic
activity in much of the free
world. For the September
quarter, world prices for wheat
and maize were at their lowest
level since the war, lead and
zinc since 1947, copper since
1950, whilst wool after
recovering from the low 1955-
56 level—is again declining.
Reduced commodity prices
imply a deterioration in the
terms of trade of those
countries reliant upon exports
of primary products. And, in
many cases, their foreign-
exchange reserves are insuffi-
cient to withstand any lengthy
period of adverse external
trading conditions.
With falling commodity
prices, it could be expected that
the effects of any further
serious slackening in activity in
the U.S.A. and the U.K. would
infiltrate to the less-well-
developed countries.
Australia is very susceptible
to such fluctuations as is
reflected, for example, in the
export-price index for October,
which registered a decline of
6 p.c. compared with the
September figure.
Confidence
The bank finds it impossible
to predict the future, “and con-
jecture is always hazardous.”
Whilst an actual downturn in
business activity in the free
world may not eventuate in the
coming year, present indica-
tions are that the previous rate
of economic expansion will not
be maintained.
There is the danger, neverthe-
less, that too much significance
will be attached to current
uncertainties, however sharply
they contrast with the booming
conditions of past years. The
pre-eminence of the U.S.A.
means that doubtful prospects
there will be widely reflected
elsewhere, “but offsetting action
seems to have been initiated
with commendable speed”
during early December.
“Possibly the most vital
element is not a change in pro-
duction - totals, employment-
numbers or income-levels,” the
bank concludes, “but in confi-
dence, because of the electric
nature of this particular
human quality. The high rate
of expansion of the post-war
decade was achieved at the
expense of severe inflationary
pressures. If inflation ceases to
be the dominant influence next
year, this must not be taken as
the signal for a somersault in
business confidence from
buoyant optimism to despair.
Given sense and steadiness, it
should be entirely practicable
for the free world to continue
reasonable business and
industrial growth in 1958.”
Migrated Oil Again
[From li. Owen]
TLLUSTRATIONS of the fact
A that accumulations of long-
distance migrated oil rarely
lead to commercial fields have
been a commonplace in the
petroleum - winning industry
throughout its century of
existence. This is especially
so where the path of migra-
tion has been “tight” enough
to produce recognisable
chemical and physical changes
in the crude oil.
The odds against commercial
production are shorter where
the seep has been sealed by
impervious beds, deposited
over the land-surface shortly
after the exudation of the oil
has begun, and where the
channels leading to the sealed
Surface are comparatively open.
Where an oil-manifestation
—unless it is very prolific—
occurs on a surface which has
been exposed to the elements
for a period whose length is
of geological significance, the
chances of commercial produc-
tion are remote.
It is asking a little too much
of the patron deity of the oil
game—the impish God of
Chance —to hope to obtain
worth-while results by drilling
on, or very near, an oil-
seepage. The “pool” from
which the oil originated very
rarely lies vertically below
that which has reached the
surface. In fact, this is likely
to happen only where the
strata have been subjected to
overfolding, producing repe-
tition of the same reservoir-
bed in the one well, or to
specific types of faulting,
having a similar effect. In
cases—too rare to act as a
guide to the oil-seeker —small
production has been obtained
from vertical beds where the
oil-reservoir has been sealed at
outcrop by its own inspissated
(dried-out) residues.
It is essential to success,
therefore, to find out every-
thing that can be learnt as to
the direction of migration
before deciding on a drilling
location in seepage country.
The technique adopted to this
end is a special one ; it is not
used, nor is it necessary, in
the routine structure-mapping
of a “normal” oilfield.
In Australia lack of success
in striking commercial oil
below “fossil” (buried) mani-
festations has been the invari-
able rule witness Roma,
Gippsland, Exmouth Gulf and
South Australia. A little
further afield is Vailala
(Papua), and the latest recruit
is Aliambata (Portuguese
Timor).
At Aliambata the failure is
particularly noteworthy, as
surface-oil in measurable—if
not prolific—quantities occurs


in the neighborhood. What is
described as a “stratigraphical
test-well,” Aliambata No. 1,
has entered, at around 2000 ft.,
a fractured limestone so permi-
able that it caused loss of circu-
lation. Although such a
stratum would be considered
as a highly promising
reservoir-bed in a “normal”
field, no gas, oil, or water under
pressure has been reported.
Taking into account the
geological environment, the
reasons leading to the choice of
the site of Aliambata 1 for a
first test-location are puzzling.
There are oil-seeps of differing
composition in the surrounding
terrain, and specialised analyses
of samples of these could
surely have given an indication
of the direction of migration
and a lead to the position of
possible oil-accumulations at
depth.
Wapet’s Plans for 1958
reports that an all-
’ * out oil exploration effort
in the Canning and Fitzroy
Basins in the Kimberley (W.A.)
area is included in field-opera-
ting plans now being drawn up
for the coming year.
The programme covers
active geological and geophysi-
cal field-work followed up by
deep exploratory drilling.
The first stage of the 1958
exploration-work is already
under way with the transporta-
tion by road and sea of more
than 250 tons of seismic
supplies and equipment to the
Kimberley area.
During the last few weeks
nearly five trucks a week have
been making the 2000 miles
overland haul from Perth to
Broome with explosives, fuel
and other seismic supplies.
Nine portable huts are being
erected near the Dampier
Downs homestead to store the
equipment in order to keep
the seismic crews operating
during the “wet” season.
Already isolated thunder-
storms and rising temperatures
herald the approach of the
“wet,” and it seems that
the major supply and transport
operation will be completed
just in time.
Each seismic crew will have
two bulldozers attached to its
transportation strength. These
’dozers will clear tracks ahead
of the crews as they push
further into the isolated scrub
country. They will also be on
hand to pull the heavy units,
such as the drilling-trucks,
through the muddy trails
after the “wet” sets in.
The National 100 drilling-
rig, attached to the Kimberley
operating strength, has recently
been overhauled and is ready
to go as soon as the exploration
group has selected a suitable
well-site.
The exploration group,
better known as the “back-
room boys,” is made up of
geologists and geophysicists.
At present they are busy study-
ing recent geological and geo-
physical data available from
the Kimberley area. And as
the crews progress during the
“wet” season new information
will be added to their maps of
subsurface formations, which,
it is hoped, will eventually lead
to selection of well-sites.
The crews staying in the
Kimberley will be operating
near the Dampier Downs
Homestead about 70 to 80
Wapet's Christmas-card
miles south-west of Broome.
They are carrying out regional
reconnaissance investigations
as well as detailed work on
sub - surface anomalies or
structural conditions brought
to light by the gravity-meter
surveys and aerial magneto-
meter surveys carried out in
recent years.
It is planned, Wapet says, to
keep the seismic crews busy
in the Canning and Fitzroy
Basins throughout the year as
well as continuing geological
field-work in the area.
The selection of well-sites
will, of course, depend on the
information produced by the
geologists and geophysicists,
but it is hoped to maintain an
active deep-drilling programme
during the year.
In the Exmouth Gulf area
drilling of the Learmonth No.
1 well will be continued to an
approximate depth of 7500 ft.
Future plans in this area will
be dependent on the geological
results of this well and their
interpretation in the light of
previous work carried out.
The present planning in-
cludes the following objec-
tives : —•
(1) The thorough evaluation of
the Rough Range-Cape Range area.
(This will consist of the reanalysis
and consequent interpretation of the
considerable amount of well, gravity
and seismic data available. This
will, of course, be considerably
influenced by the Learmonth No. 1
well recently drilling at 5662 ft.)
(2) Continuation of seismograph
work in the Fitzroy-Canning Basins
designed to obtain evidence of suit-
able structural conditions for
exploratory wells. The current work
has been preceded by extensive geo-
logical, gravity and magnetometer
coverage.
(3) Continuation of study and
investigation of all available data,
which includes field geological
studies, gravity, seismic and
magnetometer results and water-
bore data in the Perth Basin. From
these studies and consequent inter-
pretations the future programme
in the area will be determined.
(4) Concurrent with the above
field activities, staff members of the
exploration group in Perth office will
be engaged in analysing, checking
and compiling the field data
extending over the full range of the
company’s permit-areas.
Bright Banking Items
THE Christmas season has
brought two bright
banking items —the Common-
wealth Trading Bank’s balance-
sheet, and the National Bank’s
calendar.
The Commonwealth Trading
Bank’s accounts are as colorful
as the modern home after the
interior-decorator has had his
way, and have a variety of
graceful motifs running
through them ; in addition to
straight-up-and-down accounts
relating to the bank’s own
activities, there are various
graphic and tabular items rela-
ting to Australia as a whole
indicative of expansion and
current economic conditions.
They are probably the most
colorful statistics ever published
in Australia.
The National Bank of Aus-
tralasia in its calendar for 1958
has reproduced 12 watercolor
sketches by J. Skinner Prout of
old Sydney of the 1840's. Like
the 12 reproductions, of old
Melbourne in the bank’s 1957
calendar, these are delightful
examples of offset color -
printing, and are well worthy
of more permanent binding.
As it is, they have been printed
on good-quality paper, and in
many cases will probably
finish - up under plastic as
impressive table-mats.
Trade with New Zealand
[From Canberra]
'THERE was a very sub-
stantial increase in trade
with New Zealand during
1956-57.
Australian exports to New
Zealand increased by more than
25 per cent., and New Zealand’s
exports to Australia increased
by more than 40 per cent.
The Minister for Trade (Mr.
McEwen) has said that the
increase in trans-Tasman trade
has been in no small part due
to the realisation in commercial
and manufacturing circles of
the importance of rapidly
strengthening the commercial
bonds between the two
Dominions.
As a result, a significant
feature of the expanding Aus-
tralia-N.Z. trade is the increas-
ing number of personal visits
being made by businessmen of
both countries in an effort to
become thoroughly familiar
with the requirements of the
market.
The Australian market is
growing rapidly, and opportuni-
ties for New Zealand products
to sell here will increase year
by year—opportunities which
are illustrated by the increased
imports of paper-pulp, news-
print and paper products,
timber, seeds, lactose, frozen
food, electrical machinery and
a range of other products.
The benefits in increased Aus-
tralia-N.Z. trade are con-
sidered s.o important that the
Australian Government is pre-
pared to give every assistance
to New Zealand businessmen
seeking to develop Australian
outlets.
The Department of Trade has
been told to place its promo-
tional and publicity resources
at the disposal of New Zealand
exporters, to enable them
thoroughly to explore the
market to make the right
contacts, and to assist where
possible in planning promo-
tional ventures such as fairs
and trade-missions.


“ Cheryl ! Haven't you forgotten your swimsuit?”


Missing Friends
TO NORMAN PERCY JOHNS formerly
of Glenmorgan in the State of Queens-
land Carpenter but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE'NOTICE that your wife
NINA JOHNS of 17 Orgill Street Dan-
denong in the State of Victoria Married
Woman has issued proceedings against
you for Divorce on the ground of deser-
tion Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the said
State on or before the Twenty-second
day of January One thousand nine hun-
dred and fifty-eight the said suit will
proceed in your absence and a Decree
for Dissolution of Marriage may be
granted If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the Second day
of February One thousand nine hundred
and fifty-eight.—JOHN P. RHODEN, of
376 Collins Street, Melbourne, in the
said State, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
TO NANCY MURIEL TODD formerly
of Dandenong in the State of Victoria
Married Woman but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband JOHN ALFRED TODD of Car-
dinia via Clyde in the said State Farm
Hand has issued proceedings against you
for Divorce on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts William
Street Melbourne in the said State on
or before the Twenty-second day of
January One thousand nine hundred and
fifty-eight the said suit will proceed in
your absence and a Decree for Dissolu-
tion of Marriage may be granted If
you intend to defend this suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Second day of February-
One thousand nine hundred and fifty-
eight—JOHN P. RHODEN, of 376
Collins Street, Melbourne, in the said
State, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Lark”
Dr. Raoul Cardamatis, who
might be called the old master
of the difficult, is the producer
of the current offering at the
Independent Theatre, North
Sydney’ Christopher Fry’s
adaptation of “The Lark,” an
Anouilh play on Joan of Arc.
Possibly, since Cardamatis
imprints his own signature so
firmly on anything he tackles,
it might be more proper to
describe his production as an
adaptation on top of Fry. As
he notes, “in this theatre
fantasy we venture to capture
an inner feeling of admiration,
the dawn of a virgin’s love for
the one brave and determined
soldier, Warwick, losing to him
her mental purity at the end,
yet sacrificing her mortal body
in flames, to the ideals of her
mission and beliefs.” Which
is individual, to say the least.
Fantasy is the key-word, of
course. There is no attempt
at material realism in the free
ranging-back from the trial-
scene to earlier incidents and
in the way the characters
emerge out of the story like
commentators and merge back
into it; the ideas, the beautiful
groupings, the language—these
are beaten and welded together
rather like a piece of music so
that, in a play that is largely
static, the rise and fall of
excitement is almost entirely
in the sounds, in the overall
pitching of the voices.
The producer is particularly
well served in this by the
excellent cast he has gathered.
Verity Marina, usually an
actress of cold, hard strength—
which, indeed, was what one
anticipated from her—comes to
light w'ith a surprising range
of emotion ; Frank Waters
makes a rich and forthright
Warwick —a more unaffectedly
human performance than one
has seen from him for some-
time ; Owen Weingott gives all
his sharp and sensitive style to
the Inquisitor; Frederic
Abbott’s Robert de Beaudri-
court hasn’t quite the age to
suggest decadence, but it is a
full, bold study and possibly
the best performance of the
night. Charles Caspersonn’s
Cauchon is another very human
portrayal from a very able
actor whom one sees too rarely
these days; and Robert
McDarra’s watery Dauphin is
likewise admirable.
With all these, and other
excellent players on his key-
board, producer Cardamatis has
the time of his life. In fact, one
might say that he really makes
music —which, after all,
his obvious intention from tlie
start.
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Gondoliers”
On latest advices Gilbert and
.Sullivan were continuing their
collaboration in the manufac-
ture of musical goods of the
highest order at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
“The Gondoliers” was first
launched upon an unsuspecting
public at the Savoy, London,
on December 7, 1889, and by a
coincidence, or possibly
managerial diplomacy, J.C.W.’s
umpteenth revival of the opus
was launched upon an
appreciative house exactly 67
years and 51 weeks later. This
made the ceremony almost, if
"If only the Joneses Would try to keep up with US!”
riot quite, a birthday celebra-
tion.
The story of the gondolier
who is presumed to be the heir
to the mythical kingdom of
Barataria and, after numerous
complications, is presumed to
be nothing of the sort, the
rightful heir turning out to be
his cobber, was rattled through
at a speed that would have left
Sputnik I breathless.
As the Duke of Plaza Toro,
Grahame Clifford amazed the
audience with a display of
physical endurance that would
have done credit to an Olympic
athlete, and Evelyn Gardiner
kept pace with him as the
Duchess. The musical highlight
of the evening was, as usual, the
singing of that delightful ditty
“Take a Pair of Sparkling
Eyes,” and Eric O’Donaghue
rendered it in a tenor of such
compelling richness that it
brought the house down. After
the house' had been re-erected
it was once more reduced to
ruins by Eric Thornton’s
vocalisation of “Philosophers
May Sing of the Troubles of a
King.”
*** *x*
“Escapade”
Nearly all the topics of con-
versation common in intellec-
tual circles in England since
the war bob up in Canberra
Repertory’s performance of
Roger MacDougal’s
“Escapade.” Peace petitions,
education of children, relations
between husband and wife
amongst the cultured nihilists
—all the subjects were there
and it was meant to be funny,
to illuminate as well as please.
Yet it was unbelievably dull.
This was not the fault of
producer Joyce Goodes, nor
of the actors. Paul Krieg's
creation of a seedy, shady,
shifty newspaperman was
worthy of a Graham Greene
character and Graham Greene
issues. lan Bell created the
stage and radio conception of
a public-school headmaster very
nicely—a credit to his acting,
if a reflection on MacDougal’s
powers of observation.
Joy Warren, too, did well to
make something of one of
those nice, goock women
married to one of those
unhappy members of the
society of undistinguished
scribblers. Bernie Freedman
ground out the corn with
vigor, though with insufficient
light and shade.
But not all the acting talent


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT UK
WEARS A
NEO-
BA RRERE
I No Pads —
| No Springs
The nro - bar-
bers act* like
a hand -when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and hai proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Ktarrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3c, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machine* at only a frac-
tion ot their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirety in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Ag*nts~~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
« Norman Bros, Pty. Ltd,
. . Vardon Price Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
in the world, nor the skill of
the producer, could really help
very much.
M. C.
+J* +J+
Christmas Oratorio
The St. Andrew's Choral
Society with tfie Charles Gray
String Orchestra last. week
presented Bach’s Christmas
Oratorio in Sydney’s St.
Andrew’s Cathedral. The
orchestra, under Mr. Gray’s
direction, also played, as a kind
of musical mayonnaise, Nos.
3 and 4 of the six Brandenburg
Concertos.
Structurally the Christmas
Oratorio bears comparison to
Bach’s “St. Matthew” Passion.
Each deals with a big subject,
(the “Matthew” tells the
Passion and Crucifixion story,
the Christmas Oratorio the
Nativity), each has batches of
chorales (traditional German
hymns) throughout springing up
like lilies, and there are broad
instrumental similarities.
Relative moods, naturally,
differ. Whereas the “Matthew”
opens with a lengthy, seriouSj
orchestral introduction before
the lengthy, serious first chorus,
in the Christmas Oratorio
there’s a rumble of drums'and
a glittering swoop of trumpets
before the choir bursts into
“Christians, be joyful.” In this
chorus the organ throws in
shafts of diapason-tone above
the orchestra's alternation of
string, brass and woodwind
colors.
Thence onward there is a
succession of choruses and
those most lovely chorales,
laced with solo recitatives and
airs. The alto air, “Prepare
thyself, Zion,” probably
Florence Taylor's strongest
offering, is made up of sequen-
tial treatment between soloist
and orchestra.
It is the annoying duty of a
critic to be critical, and while
one would concede top marks
to David Barkla for his taut,
sensible choral conducting ; to
Charles Gray for his thorough
handling of the orchestra in the
Brandenburgs; to Leonard
Burtenshaw’s discretion with
the powerful Cathedral organ.;
and to Geoffrey Chard’s fluent,
clear bass, one must remark a
certain thickness in Florence
Taylor’s contralto, a pretty-
pretty quality in Ailene
Fischer’s soprano, and a too-
reedy, though not unpleasant,
strength about Allan Ferris’s
tenor.
But these minor shortcomings
were swallowed, drowned and
engulfed (or nearly so) in the
sheer beauty of Bach’s music.
A. W.
Memorable “Elefctra”
[From Londonl
Of all the arts, opera pre-
sentation mhst be the most
hazardous as well as the most
expensive. To plan perform-
ances well in advance means
also engaging principals, often
from foreign centres. That
there’s many a hitch between
signing the contract and the
appearance on the stage is a
wry truth at Covent Garden,
whose administration has been
sorely affected by bad luck in
recent months.
It is, therefore, rewarding as
well as unique that a further
threatened adversity became a
Ulumph Even to the musica l
] ayman the taking-over at
short notice of a role s 0 , ong
and difficult as Richard
Strauss . s Elektra is nothing
short of astoundin g. Gerda
L of Casse]> has don e
more than this Not on , y was
she note-and word-perfect, but
she suffused the roJe with a
dramatic fu||ness , hat was
; n e n ; r otmn
nolhlng shorl o£ insplral on '
Strauss was primarily an
orchestral composer who gave
his best effects to that medium,
leaving the singers to deliver
Hofmannsthal’s words and
making no concessions to difli-
culties of technique. Yet
Madame Lammers, until two
years or so ago a recital- and
lieder-singer, dominated the
orchestra even in the great
climaxes, her phrasing was
remarkably smooth and her
tone uniform throughout her
compass. Particularly impres-
sive was her power to sustain
and develop a long scene and
to convey Elektra’s innate
nobility within dementia.
Equal honors went to
Rudolf Kempe for his handling
of the score, which he tempered
with restraint while letting out
its force. This may seem
paradoxical, but Strauss readily
becomes facile in exposition
and banal in sentimentality.
The rest was satisfactory: a
conventional production, sup-
porting singers of varying
capacity and a plot that is
difficult to follow because there
is little action and the libretti is
in German. As a musical
interpretation of a Greek
tragedy, the opera is not
entirely successful, being terri-
tying rather than piteous and
lacking in spiritual grandeur.
But musically it was stupendous
in performance.
Artbursts
Anthony Underhill
An exhibition by Anthony
Underhill of oils and drawings
is hanging at the Australian
Galleries, Collingwood. Under-
hill is an ex-Melbourne Tech,
student who has painted for 10
years in London, where he has
a studio from which he sallies
to paint Spain, Italy and other
countries. He fell in love with
the Velasquezes, the Rem-
brandts, the Rubenses and the
Titians in the Prado, and the
Constables and Turners in
London.
They were artists who all had
the one thing in common, to
paint what they saw, and there
is some evidence in his pictures
that Underhill is trying to
emulate them. Like them, he is
interested only in his immediate
surroundings—as indicated by
such titles as “The Stove,” “The
Easel,” “The Studio Table” —
and he gives a rough vitality to
them which he loses in his
larger landscapes, which are
somewhat muddled.
All the artists Underhill
admires were, so to speak,
measurers—they measured the
relationships of color, tone and
form which the subject pre-
sented to them, and they all
used more-or-less the same
metaphorical footrule, which is
why a similar quality is appar-
ent in their pictures, whether
they painted archangels, trees
or apples. All Mr. Underhill
seems to need is a better foot-
rule. His pictures all look like
good starts which could be
carried further.
M. G. S.
Films
“Robbery Under Arms”
Director Jack Lee has been
well served by cameraman and
principal actors in the Rank
outfit’s screen-version of Rolf
Boldrewood’s novel about the
exploits of the bushranger
Captain Starlight, and of the
two young Marston brothers


m :
FuiiJi in the
Future
Christmas spreads its spirit across the world
once more to inspire us with its message of
simple Faith.
It comes, as it has to countless millions since
the birth of Our Lord, to bring us back to the
truth of eternal values. And that is something of
which I think we, in our time, are in need of
special reminder.
As men go on to tap the material marvels of
Creation, and tend to think of themselves as the
creators of what they have merely discovered or
invented, the story of Bethlehem brings home
more forcefully than ever the Power that was
hidden in the humility of Christ’s example: He
was born in a stable and was wrapped in
swaddling clothes.
In our day a new “star” appears in the East;
a small object of man’s making that amazes all
who witness its flight across the sky. But the core
of our Christian Faith is that the God Who made
and orders the whole bright universe behind this
brief speck of light, came on earth as a Child
and was born in poverty.
The religion of Christ is not bounded by any
age, nor can its truths be altered by anything an
age may produce; its beliefs are basic for all time.
It is fitting, then, that we should celebrate this
season in an atmosphere of joy—balancing as it
does the later contemplation of suffering and
sacrifice and final glory in the festival of Easter.
But the real importance of Christmas is in
the spiritual strength we can draw from its
message: Here, in the language of love, is answer
to the enmities and doubts and denials that confuse
the world.
Other Christmases will come, set in scenes of
still more splendid achievements from the minds
of men. For the Christian, they will always trace
back to the manger in Bethlehem, with everything
it proclaims and promises.
What the years can bring is for time alone;
and Christmas belongs to eternity.
CHIUSTMAS DAY, 1957
7
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO ALLAN EDWARD FREEMAN late
of Blaxland in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that LILA
JOYCE FREEMAN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2294 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under S. 19 (2) (a)
of the Matrimonial Causes Act, 1899
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 28th of February 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. K. BRUDENELL-
WOODS & CO., Solicitors, of 6a
Penfold Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF ~NEW
SOUTH WALES— -In Divorce.
TO ALLAN FREDERICK MEARS late
of Cobbity in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that JANE
MEARS has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2248 of 1956 on the grounds of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-1951
If you wish' to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 28th day of February 1958 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO VICTOR JAMES WILLIAMS late
of 68 English Street Camperdown.—
TAKE NOTICE that DELLYSE MAY
WILLIAMS has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 2355 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street, Sydney by
the 28th February 1958 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge
from G. W. CONNAH SON & STEED,
Solicitors, • 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J,
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LAURA ALVINA O’CONNOR late
of 100 Mitchell Street Glebe. —TAKE
NOTICE that LESLIE CHARLES
O’CONNOR has filed Petition for
Divorce No. 1644 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 28th
February 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from G. W.
CONNAH SON & STEED, Solicitors,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney.-—J, DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME OOURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Iff Divorce.
TO JOHN MEINS late of 53 Gerrard
Street Cremorne. —TAKE NOTICE that
ADA LGIJISA MEINS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3540 of 1957 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse during three years and
upwards and is asking for the exercise
of the Court’s discretion under Section
19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 10th day of
February 1958 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from B. -J.
MACREE & CO., Solicitors, 114 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGIIAN,
Registrar,
who, initially out for wild
adventure, find themselves
bound willy-nilly _ to the
fortunes of Starlight, with
murder setting them on the
run to the goldfields.
The outback scenes are
magnificently shot in good
color, and if the early
sequences, in which the gang
moves from one hideout to
another, are a bit slow, there’s
no lack of tension and excite-
ment from the bank-robbery
onwards, until the last stand by
the gang when the troopers
close in on them in the hills.
Peter Finch’s Captain Star-
light exercises an easy
authority over his gang, revels
in the excitement of lawlessness
for its own sake, mixes a little
chivalry with a lot of ruthless-
ness, and recklessness with
caution—a rogue by turns like-
able and detestable, but always
colorful.
David McCallum, as the
younger Marston brother who
wants to break away and
reform, and Jill Ireland, as the
bride who has faith in him, do
excellent work. Ronald Lewis
and Maureen Swanson, in the
roles of the elder, tougher
brother and his spirited
mistress, also give the proceed-
ings a good boost.
At Sydney State.
❖ *X* ❖
“Les Girls”
And what a trio of them!
Mitzi Gaynor, Kay Kendall
and Taina Elg, nifty as you
like, whether they are in full
marching order or displaying
sets of vital statistics which are
not the exclusive delight of the
mathematician.
The doings, which revolve
around backstage drolleries and
the easy camaraderie of the
dressing-room, are well salted
with humor (with an uproari-
ous contribution by Kay
Kendall when she imagines
she's a prima donna after hav-
ing treated her tonsils liber-
ally with gin sprayed from a
perfume - bottle), and are
studded with first-rate dancing-
sequences, in which Gene Kelly
partners Mitzi Gaynor and
Taina Elg.
The story is told in a series
of flashbacks from a libel-'
action in an English court,
flowing from a candid auto-
biography written by one of les
girls (Kay Kendall) who, since
her theatrical days, has married
a title. The alternations from
the dignified decorum of the
court to the raffish atmosphere
of the Parisian theatre give an
added snap to the comedy,
which also profits from pro-
ducer Kelly’s disciplinary
troubles with the girls, who
play with serene self-confidence
on his weaknesses. Cole Porter
supplies a string of listenable
tunes to match the general
frothiness.
At Sydney Liberty.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES . . .
&
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
181 HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
m. 1.0., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
YICH-CHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. B. LYSAQHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ABMYTAGE,
managing bibbctor.
w. 8. MATTHEWS.
MAKA6RR.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
YOU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview
with Perpetual Trustee Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring
your responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite
simply arranged, and you will be. immediately freed from
the irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone B 0377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a
copy of the Company’s help-
ful booklet, “Your Executor
and Trustee,” be posted free
to you.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
88-89 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE k TAMWORTH
PERTiTUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HOUSE
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT
WARREN D. McDonald.
VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. «. McFARLANE. o m.-o.
NEVILLE C. MILSON
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.
AS far as can be seen from the tradition-
ally skimpy accounts released by the
Adelaide Steamship Co., the term to
June 30 last appears to have been a
rather successful one.
Adhering to a practice followed for over
80 years, the board claimed as net profit
an amount little more than enough to
meet div.-requirements, leaving share-
holders to guess just how well the co.
performed and to what extent capital-
profits, investments and trading operations
contributed to earnings.
Originally formed in 1875, the
Adelaide co. was reconstructed in 1920,
paid capital, £2,325,135 in f.-p. £1 ords.,
remaining unchanged since that year.
In addition to controlling one of the
largest fleets on the Australian coast
(three passenger- and 19 cargo-vessels),
the co. has a substantial investment-port-
folio, and, either directly or through sub-
sidiaries, is interested in stevedoring- and
towage-services, small-ship construction,
cement-production, marine and general
engineering, etc. Prior to the recent sale
of a large holding in Australian National
Airways Pty. to Ansett Transport Indus-
tries, Ltd., investments in subsidiary
(£202,500) and other cos. were valued in
the books at £1,039,494.
The inter-State passenger-v e s s e 1
Manunda, two freighters and two coal-
hulks were sold last term, reducing the
tonnage of the fleet by 15,129 tons to
45,093 tons. From the (undisclosed)
surplus on sale of these vessels, £46,503
was allocated as a 2 p.c. bonus-div., lifting
the distribution for the year to 8 p.c. and
the average rate for the past decade to
5f p-c.
Except for widespread but spasmodic
stoppages by waterside-workers, occurring
over a period of several months, shipping-
activities last term were comparatively
free from industrial disputes, but, as
profit from all sources is lumped together
in the accounts, the extent of the resulting
benefit to the co. isn’t clear.
As claimed by the board, net profit
“after providing for depreciation, pro-
visions, transfers to reserves and all other
charges” was £3 higher at £139,519, “pro-
visions” covering, among other things,
£50,000 for long-service leave, a £75,000
(up £50,000) addition to insurance reserve
and £120,000 (up £90,000T for renewals
and replacements. Treating the last, two
items as appropriations of profit, net
earnings jumped by £140,003 to £334.519,
including, possibly, portion of the surplus
on sale of fixed assets:
To Be- Re-
June, Profit.* Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ . £
1947.. 169,456 6 p.c. = 139,507 29,949 828,652
1948.. 154,451 6 „ „ 139,507 14,914 843,569
1919. . 218,331- 5 ~ „ 116,257 102,074 915,643
1950.. 156,276 5 ~ „ 116,257 40,019 985,662
1951.. 156,268 5 „ „ 116.257 40,011 1,025,673
19:52.. 241,273 5 „ „ 116,257 125,016 1,150,689
Decrease repairs provision,' £21,130 1,129,5.59
1953.. 252,887 51p.c.= 127,883 125,004 1,254,563
Added repairs provision, £139,773 .. 1,394,336
1954.. 264,515 6 p.c.= 139,508 125,007 1,519,343
Added repairs provision, £124,109.. 1,643,'452
1955. . 159,518 6 p.c. = 139,508 20.010 1,663,462
Added repairs provision, £163,322.. 1.826,784
1956.. 194,516 0 p.c. = 139,508 55,008 1,881,792
Decrease repairs provision, £29,968.. 1,851,824
From profit on sale vessels, £46,503. . 1,898,327
•1957.... 334,519 8 p.c.= 186,011 148,508 2,046,835
* Includes additions to insurance and replacement
reserves.
Equal to 14.3 p.c. on share-capital, com-
pared with 8.3, 6.8, 11.3 and 10.8 p.c
in the four preceding terms, the earnings
represented a return of 7.7 p.c. from
average shareholders’ funds.
A bulk-sugar carrier of 7150 tons, now
under construction in Scotland, will be
added to the fleet towards the end of
1958, an all-purpose cargo-vessel (5150
tons) being expected from the shipyards
of Evans, Deakin and Co. (Brisbane) late
in the following year.
The building of these two vessels will
involve an outlay of over £2 million, but
the strong liqaid position disclosed by
the balance-sheet indicates that the co. is
well placed to finance the purchase:—■
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £2,325,185 £2,325.135 £2,325,133
Reserves .. .. 1,#63,462 1,881,792 2,049,833
Overdraft .. .. 600,489 184,491
Sundry creditors*. 866,632 1,027,8,71 1,282.899
Provident fund .. 302,739 340.050 366.537
Final div. .. 81,880 81,380 127,883
£5,839,787 £5,840,705 £6,099,289
Freeholds, etc. .. 270,733 2.79,059 . 287,186
Steamers, etc. .. 2,858.101 2,670,704 2,423,911
Investments .. .706,864 714,465 836,994
Shares subsidiaries 136,5.00 136,500 202,500
Stocks and stores 216,085 284,434 224,776
Book-debts, etc. .. 873,790 1,027,833 912,518
Cash, bonds, etc... 777,714 777,710 1,211,452
£5,839,787 £5,840,705 £6,099,286
* Includes provision for taxation.
Sale of vessels mentioned earlier shows
up as a £246,793 contraction in the cost-
/ew-depreciation value of steamers, etc.,
the largest individual movement in the
figures being the accumulation of an extra
£433,742 in cash, etc.
Tailoring its activities to fit changing
conditions, the co. has decided not to
replace the passenger-vessel Manunda
and has reduced services to Spencer Gulf
ports. The switch to bulk-handling of
sugar now in progress at North Queens-
land ports will also affect stevedoring and
agency business in that area.
However, engineering interests have
been expanded, particularly at Port
Kembla, a shareholding obtained in a co.
formed to operate tramp vessels in the
Pacific and Far East and the investment
in the subsidiary Waratah Tug and Sal-
vage Co. Pty. “substantially” increased.
In addition the co. has joined with Sea-
work, Ltd. (U.K.), to form Adelaide Ship
Construction, Ltd. This co. proposes to
build tugs and small ships, employing the
hydroconic principle of hull-construc-
tion whereby bending and rolling of
plates is minimised with consequent
economies in production-costs.
The closely allied problems of fleet-
replacement and capital-erosion continue
to trouble shipowners, and proposals
relating to these subjects, and to the co-
ordination of land-, sea- and air-trans-
port, have been put to the Federal


Government by private Australian ship-
owners in collaboration with the Aus-
tralian National Line.
The immediate prospect is for another
successful year, with repetition of the 2
p.c. bonus-div. possible but far from
certain. At 225. 9d. (20s. a year ago) the
f.-p. £1 ords. would return £5 ss. 6d. p.c.
from a 6 p.c. div. or £7 Is. Bd. p.c. from
an 8 p.c. distribution. Conservative book-
values give the scrip a net tangible back-
ing of 375. 7d.
Consolidated Finance Corp., Ltd.
THE Australian hire-purchase debt
continues to climb (rising by £22.8
million over the last financial year, and
by £8.2 million to £242.8 million in the
first quarter of the current year), but the
rate of growth is slower, and repayments
are financing the majority of new agree-
ments.
With adequate funds available, most
hire-purchase financiers are finding the
full and profitable employment of their
resources a more difficult task than it
was two or three years ago —when the
emphasis was on fund-raising —and the
opportunities for speedy growth, existing
then, are no longer evident. Related to a
decline from the abnormally high interest-
rates offered in the money-market in
recent years, the reduction in certain
h.-p. charges announced last October
was also a product of the stiff competition
now being experienced by* h.-p. cos.
generally.
A reconstruction of the Producers and
General Finance Corp. (which ran into
trouble almost 20 years ago and later
lopped-off £388,750 from paid capital).
Consolidated Finance Corp. is basically a
h.-p. financier, but is also interested in
the manufacture, retailing, removal and
storage of furniture. Through sub-
sidiaries, now known as Consolidated
Home Furnishers, the co. trades as a
home-furnisher in Sydney, Newcastle,
Wollongong and Armidale (all in
N.S.W.), as well as providing hire-
purchase facilities in the three eastern
States. # -
Assisted in recent years by the boom
in h.-p. business, the co. has made con-
siderable progress since the 1945 recon-
struction, the equivalent of a one-for-four
bonus adding £105,899 to paid capital in
1954. In the same year-pref. capital was
raised to £400,000 by the issue of 300,000
7 p.c. prefs., the last issue to ord. share-
holders, three-for-five at par, taking place
in May, 1955. Paid capital, £295,873 in
1950, now totals £1,472,263.
The retail offshoots found trade rather
sluggish last term, in common with most
furniture-retailers, and profits from this
quarter were small. The earnings of other
subsidiaries also fell, while the parent
itself recorded a £92,429 drop in book-
debts, the bulk of which relate to h.-p.
agreements. Excluding the proportion due
to outside shareholders, the group’s net
earnings slipped by £35,561 to £164,244,
after providing £103,530 (down £49,478)
for taxation, at the now-superseded rates,
£9619 (down £1510) for depreciation, and
writing-off £31,238 (up £1037) of deben-
ture-issue expenses:
, ——Dividends , To Re- Re-
June, Profit.* Pref. Ord. Total. serves. serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1951 . . 50,014 7 10 29,852 20,162 26,070
From doubtful debts prov’n, £10,000.. 36,070
Unexplained reduction res., £1263 .. 34,807
1952 .. 49,243 7 10 46,174 3,069 37,876
Unexplained addition res., £229 .. 38,105
1953 .. 84,463 7 10 46,174 38,289 76,394
Revaluation assets, £105,899 .. 182,293
. Reserves capitalised, £105,899 .. 76,394
Deficits
Less reserve adjustments, £145,474.. 69,080
Added goodwill, £19,353 .. •• 88,433
From tax reserve, £15,043 .. .. 73,390
1954 ..112,782 7 12f 87,748 25,034 48,356
Tax overprovided, £15,933 . . . . 32,423
Added reserves, £4935 .. .. 27,488
Reserves, t
1955 ~169,068 7 15 139.262 29,806 2,318
Reduction intangibles, £14,498 .. 16,816
Profit sale assets, etc., £751 .. 17,567
Unexplained addition, £936 .. .. 18,503
1956 ..199,805 7 15 188,579 11,226 29,729
Unexplained addition (net), £13,963.. 43,692
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 38,692
Less adjustment outside shareholding,
£257 .. .. .. 38,435
Less added intangibles, £5363 .. 33,072
1957 ..164,244 7 11J 148,629 15,615 48,687
* Less - proportion due to outside shareholders.
f After deducting goodwill and difference between
par and book-value of shares in subsidiaries.
Pref. divs, swallowed £28,000 of the profit,
the balance representing 12.7 p.c. on ord.
capital, compared with 16, 18.7, 21.6 and
19.8 p.c. in the four years back to 1953.
Averaging 11.7 p.c. over the past decade,
the div.-rate was cut from 15 p.c. to lli
p.c., the final div. being calculated on a
10 p.c. p.a. basis.
Until the 1956 term, when the first
public debenture-issue was made, the co.
relied mainly on share-capital and bank-
accommodation for its funds, but (and
no doubt encouraged by the bank) in the
last two years the overdraft has been cut
from £1,854,250 to £520,649, and
£2,179,450 of deposit and debenture-
money brought into the business:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—- 1955. 1956. 1957.
PreL .. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Old 794,245 1,070,549 1,072,263
Share application.. 250.294
Reserves* . . . . 2,318 29,729 48,687
Outside interests.. 48,604 7,215 5,027
Debentures and
deposits .. 1,341,000 2,179,450
Unearned income.. 375,180 500,954 521,503
Overdraft .. 1,854,250 1,396,113 520,649
Creditors, etc. .5 129,600 152,020 198,292-
Tax provision .. 91,998 159,654 103,471
Final div 73.568 94,291 67,613
* £4,050.147 £5,151,525 £5,116,955
Freeholds, etc. .. 198,980 358,921 386,731
Plant, etc.. . .. 61,242 49,664 49,746 .
Stock .. .. 152,616 140,759 111,183
Debtors .. .. 3,354,965 4,577,313 4,515,211
Cash, etc 282,344 2,037 2,196
Int.er-co. balances.. 22,831 51,888
£4,050,147 £5,151,525 £5,116,955
* After deducting goodwill, £58,600 at 30/6/’57.
At the end of last term borrowed funds —
debentures, deposits and overdraft—were
£37,014 lower at £2,700,099, or a little
under twice paid capital. This rather
conservative ratio (when compared with
those adopted by some large h.-p. organi-
sations) suggests that the co. could carry
more outside money if sufficient sound
new business were available.
It seems doubtful at this stage whether
furniture-retailing will prove any more
profitable in the current term than it did
in the last. Any improvement in earnings,
therefore, will depend largely on the
success of the parent, which is operating
in a competitive but still expanding
market.
Preferring to wait and see, the share-
market prices the f.-p. ss. ords. at ss. 6d„
to return £lO 4s. 74. p.c. from an lli
p.c. div., or £9 Is. lOd. p.c. from a 10 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover (June
30, ’57) was a little under ss. 3d.
Berlei United, Ltd.
T IVING up to its reputation as a skil-
fully managed and highly successful
co., Berlei United, Ltd., distributed bonus-
scrip last term (one-for-four) for the
second time in less than three-and-a-half
years, requiring under a third of the
group-profit to maintain the 10 p.c. div.-
rate.
The growing size and earning-power of
Berlei’s subsidiaries, particularly the U.K.
offshoot, were emphasised by the internal
reorganisation of the group last July,
when the parent co. took its present name
and passed its trading and manufacturing
interests, together with its old title
(Berlei, Ltd.), to a subsidiary.
Ord.-shareholders, who have received
a steady 10 p.c. annually since 1936,
were last invited to subscribe fresh capital
in 1951, the issue (three-for-five), unlike
the two preceding issues, being made at
par. Last term’s gift raised paid capital to
£881,825, including £50,000 in 8 p.c.
prefs.
Carrying on a business originally
established in 1912, the Berlei group
manufactures and markets foundation-
garments in Australia and the U.K., an
associate co. operating in the same field
in New Zealand.
Trading conditions in the Australian
market hardened during the term to
June 30 last, and, while local sales im-
proved slightly, the U.K. subsidiary
appears to have contributed a large part
of the £366,244 added to' turnover
(£4,446,606). The parent did little more
than maintain its earnings, a steep and
unexplained rise in expenses offsetting
cuts in labor- and material-costs. How-
ever, the bigger group-turnover helped to
swell the consolidated profit by £14,785,
the ratio of taxed-profit to sales slipping
from 6.2 p.c. to 5.9 p.c.:
Berlei, Ltd.
f — Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.e. t Ord. serves, serves.*
1952:. 60,657 4000 10 p.c. = 37,544 19,113 429,081
To tax reserve, £lßl3 .. .. .. 427,268
To staff fund, £9913 .. .. .. 417,355
1953.. 82,627 4000 10 p.c. = 47,086 31,541 448,890
Assets revaluation,. £11,316 .. .. 400,212
Reserves capitalised, £188,346 .. .. 271,866
From tax reserve, £7956 net .. .. 279,822
To staff fund, £8948.. ..) 7n 7 ,„ Q r n rrr
1954.. 140.194 4000 10 p.c. = 56,503 ] iSOU ’ !>OS>
Parent and Subsidiaries.+
Added on consolidation, £198,976 .. 549,541
Less net increase intangibles, £19,188.. 530,353
Tax underprovided, £560 .. .. 529,793
Unexplained addition, £919 .. .. 530,712
1955.. 500 4000 10 p.c. = 65,921 115,579 646,291
To staff fund, £13,308 632,983
Tax underprovided, £438 .. ~ 632,545
Establishment expenses, £lß4l ..630,704
Written-off Sarong investment, £5118.. 625,586
Add net reduction intangibles, £6341.. 631,927
Unexplained reduction, £2159 ... .. 629,768
1956.. 451 4000 10 p.c. = 66,546 186,905 816,673
Revaluation assets (parent), £191,298 1,007,971
Reserves capitalised, £166,365 . .841,606
Tax overprovided, £1979 . . ..843,585
Royalties overprovided, £9755 .. .. 853,340
Written-off Sarong investment, £5000.. 848,340
Less added intangibles, £165,288 ..683,052
Unexplained reduction, £5159 .. .. 677,893
To staff fund, £24,255 653,638
1957.. 4000 10 p.c. = 74,864 193,372 847,010
* After deducting intangibles. f Less proportion
of profit due to outside interests.
Claimed after providing £203,681 (down
£199) for taxation (at the rates applying


T. & G. Mutual Life Society
RECORD EXPANSION
ASSETS EXCEED £123,000,000
At the 81st Annual Meeting held on Wednesday, 18th December, at the Society’s
Head Office, the Chairman, Mr. H. G. Brain, said:—
NEW BUSINESS
“It is with much pleasure that I report that, in a
year marked by relative stability in the national
economy, further healthy progress was made by the
Society. In the Life Departments new business
amounted to £51,201,685, an increase of nearly
3-j million pounds on the previous year’s aggregate.
Increases were recorded in both the Ordinary and
Industrial Departments, and progress was shown
in all Australian States and in New Zealand which
comprise the entire area in which the Society
operates.
Group and Superannuation business continues to
produce a growing proportion of the new business
completed in the Ordinary Department. We
welcome this feature as we are firmly convinced that
Group and Superannuation Insurance, through its
beneficial influence on employer-employee relations,
and its powerful encouragement to savings by
workers, represents a most significant contribution
to stability in the community. Although many
schemes for large industrial and commercial under-
takings have been entrusted to the Society many
others have been arranged for small employers who
have availed themselves of the Society’s expert
knowledge and service.
INCOME AND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS
The income for the year, amounting to pearly
£22,000,000, reflects the increased business in force
and the growing assets. You will be glad to notice
an increase of 3/10d. per cent, in the rate of interest
earned on the mean Assurance Funds, and that this
increase was achieved without in any way departing
from the principles determined by your Directors
for the proper investment of the funds. These
funds have been invested to secure a satisfactory
return and to make the best contribution to the
national welfare. Advances for housing have con-
tinued while we have assisted industry and sup-
ported Government and Local Authority loans. We
welcome the more realistic rates of interest available
but at the same time maintain our belief that rates
must be kept within reasonable bounds for expan-
sion to be truly healthy.
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS
Payments to policyholders and beneficiaries
amounted to more than £8,000,000 —averaging more
than £25,000 for every working day throughout
the year. These payments represent security to
widows and children and peace of mind to retired
people.
I am pteased to say that reduced expense rates
are again shown in all departments. In addition to
maintaining a continuous review of operating
methods the Society is expanding its use of auto-
matic and electronic machines to provide more
efficient service. Mechanisation has enabled us to
cope with the remarkable growth of the Society,
without a proportionate increase in staff.
TAXATION
Although a Mutual Society such as ours is taxed
on a basis more favourable than that applicable to
a trading company owned by shareholders, more
than half a million pounds was paid in taxation
during the past year. Considering the social benefits
provided by a Mutual Life Society, this is a heavy
contribution as our major objects are so similar
to those of pension funds and friendly societies
which, in general, are immune from taxation. 1
should like to think that the Governments con-
cerned are aware of this disparity of treatment, and
are considering relief for Societies such as ours,
which also operate solely for the mutual protection
of their members.
THE ACTUARY’S REPORT
The Actuary’s report shows that conservative
methods of valuation were again used. A record
amount of nearly £3,000,000 is recommended for
distribution and will provide for further increases in
bonuses in the Ordinary Department and for the
continuance of the current bonuses in the Industrial
Department.
The Accident Department had another successful
year and its premium income amounted to a record
total of £554,187. The combination of life,
personal accident and sickness protection can
guard the policyholder against the major economic
hazards of working life.
SECURITY
The society is continually developing new avenues
for life and personal accident assurance and devising
better methods of satisfying the many needs for
financial security that exist in the community. This
development is most marked in superannuation for
individuals and groups of employees.
Other solutions to this same problem are being
propounded and the results may or may not in
future prove to be advantageous. In a time of
prosperity the essential need for security may be
overlooked and those considering provision for
retirement thirty years hence could well bear in
mind the vast changes which have taken place since
1927. The payment of benefits depends on the
stability and security behind the contracts which
your Society is well equipped to provide, and
should be weighed seriously in any provision for
retirement or for beneficiaries. The Society has a
wealth of experience in designing a suitable pro-
gramme to provide financial security for any person
or group of persons and this experience is freely
available through its expert officers and
representatives.
STAFF
The diligent service of all sections of the staff
is reflected in the high standing of the Society. Men
and women from the ranks of our own staff are
trained to fit them for the opportunities for pro-
motion that are so frequently presented in our
expanding organisation. I extend the sincere thanks
of the Board to all members of the Field and Indoor
Staffs. Through their efforts your Society continues
to uphold its prestige and the fine reputation for
service established by their predecessors.”
Retiring Directors, Messrs. H. G. Brain and D. I.
Menzies, Q.C., and retiring Auditors, Messrs.
J. M. F. Relph and W. M. Scott, were re-elected.
before the last Budget) and
£54,766 (up £13,123) for depre-
ciation, the £272,236 profit
covered the pref. div. and 32.2
p.c. on the bonus-enlarged ord.
capital, compared with 38.1 p.c.
and 27.5 p.c. in the two preced-
ing terms. Over a full term,
unaltered pref. and ord. div -
rates would call for £87,183, or
£185,053 less than last term’s
showing.
The bonus-issue followed
revaluation of the parent’s
investment in the U.K. sub-
sidiary and is reflected in the
consolidated accounts by an
appropriate reduction in tan-
gible reserves. Fixed assets
held by the parent and subse-
quently transferred to a sub-
sidiary were also revalued, to
avoid “complicated taxation
adjustment s,” but this
accounted for only £27,236 of
the £271,617 added (before
depreciation) to plant and free-
holds over the term:
COMftOL] DATED Ba LANCE-SHEET.
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £50,000 £50,000
Ord. .. . . 665,460 831,825
Reserves .. 816,673 847,010
Minority interest 100,222 154,521
Mortgages, etc... 176,250 205,000
Notes . . . . 250,000 250,000
Overdraft, etc... 204,118 214,727
Creditors .. 310,426 386,057
Tax provision ... 334,310 345,587
Final divs. .. 39,146 47,467
£2,964,605 £3,332.194
Freeholds .. 439,234 554,365
Plant, ete. .. 248,198 349,913
Investments .. 58,505 53,108
Stocks .. .. 1,538,322 1,653,880
Book-debts . . 541,645 687,660
Cash, etc. .. 138,701 33,257
£2,964,605 £3,332,194
The capital-expenditure and
increases in stock (up £115,558)
and book-debts (up £146,021)
were financed, in the main, by
retained earnings, borrowed
funds increasing by only
£39,359 and creditors by
£66,631. While in a slightly
less liquid form, working-
capital was £59,297 larger at
an ample £1,380,965 by the end
of the term.
Due for redemption in May,
1959, the 5y p.c. notes may, at
the option of the holder, be
converted into scrip (issued at a
33j p.c. premium) in June of
that year. The £IOO notes sold
last month at £l6O, the f.-p. £1
ords. (net tangible backing
40s. 5d.) returning £4 Os. lid.
p.c. at 495. 3d.
All cos. within the organisa-
tion operated “most satisfac-
torily” in the first quarter of
the current term, and, although
economic conditions in both
Australia and the U.K. have
become somewhat less
favorable in recent months,
shareholders can see security
for income and capital in the


A N Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
ANZ
* -*■ *
COMBINED STATEMENT OF
AGGREGATE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
(Excluding In+er-Banlc Balances)
30th SEPTEMBER, 1957
(Expressed in Australian Currency)
ASSETS £A
Cash in Hand and Balances with Bankers 40,496,739
Cheques of other Banks .. „ ... .. .. 5,600,362
Money at call *. ... 3,012,000
Treasury Bills 2,398,937
Special Accoii'nt with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia .. .. 50,483,000
Investments 60,014,592
Bills Receivable and Remittances in
Transit 69,996,321
Loans and Advances to Customers and
other Accounts .. 188,117,703
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances
and other Engagements ....... .. 35,514,229
Bank Premises .. .. ... M _ ... .. .. 8,926,462
Total £A464,560,345
LIABILITIES
Paid up Capita! of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited .. 12,801,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss
Account Balance 10,574,952
Current Deposit and other Accounts .. 405,670,164
Acceptances and other Engagements for
Customers 35,514,229
Total £A464,560,345
GENERAL MANAGER'S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA,
NEW ZEALAND. FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND: 194 Featherston
Street, Wellington.
HEAD OFFICE: 71 Cornhill, London. E.C.3.
Over 875 Branches and Agencies throughout Australia
and New Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea,
and in London.
Hugh D. T. Williamson, General Manager.
wide div.-cover and solid
financial structure.
Ferris Industries, Ltd.
Transition problems,
chiefly in connection with
short-term financing, still con-
cern Ferris Industries, Ltd., but
latest accounts reveal a promis-
ing profit-trend, net earnings
for the year improving -by
£10,145 to £30,005 after pro-
viding £19,395 for co.-tax and
£5748 for depreciation. Turn-
over was 60 p.c. higher than the
£472,279 recorded in the pre-
vious term.
Successor to a partnership
formed in 1932 by G. and W.
Ferris, whose knowhow con-
tinues to underpin the present
organisation, the group has
been largely reconstructed over
the last two years, equity-
capital increasing from £53,000
to £223,000.
Originally incorporated as
Ferris Bros. Properties, Ltd.,
to construct and lease buildings
to Ferris Bros. Pty., the co.
made the change to its present
style in 1955, after taking over
the operating co., consideration
being 95,300 £1 shares in the
parent in exchange for 35,500
£1 shares in the subsidiary.
About the same time, a
majority - holding (6600 £1
shares) in Telecomponents Pty.
was acquired and subsequently
a further £73,300 was sub-
scribed by the public.
Centred at Brookvale,
N.S.W., Ferris’s two modern
factories now turn-out Ferris-
Raytheon TV-receivers, for
which it holds the Australasian
franchise, and Channel Master
antennas, manufactured under
licence from the big U.S. co. of
the same name. Both these
products are reported to have
been very successful performers,
and demand is ahead of plant-
capacity. The contribution to
profits of the electronic-
components side of the business,
producing mainly coils and
transformers for outside manu-
facturers, is also increasing.
However, sales of the co.’s
original specialty, car-radios,
have fallen off with the reduc-
tion in new-car registrations.
To ease the strain on finances
caused by present expansion,
financial strengthening is being
sought in a £lOO,OOO par-issue
which would, when fully sub-
scribed, bring paid-up capital
to £323,000. But last sale of
the co.’s shares on Sydney
’Change was at Is. below par.
A call for long-term deposits
during the financial year
brought in £39,800, and this
was helped by £79,952 in over-
draft and short-term raisings.
Creditors also increased by
£80,191 to £135,724, being only
partly balanced by a £46,808
rise in book-debts. Most of the
new money was locked-up in
stocks, which jumped sharply
by £161,425 to £252,009, pre-
sumably in response to advance
orders: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £219,844 £223,000
Reserves ~ 30,953 42,169
Outside interests 12,032 . 12.177
Long-term deposits 39,800
Short-term deposits 33,128
Overdraft ... 46,824
Creditors . . 5.5,,533 135,724
Tax provision ~ 12,687 25,431
Final dividend. . 14,296 18,789
£345,345 £577,042
Freeholds .. 93,870 99,523
Plant, vehicles, etc. 29.335 ‘ 48,937
Stocks 90,584 252,009
Debtors . . .. 61.659 108,467
Cash, bonds,- etc. 6,044 3,848
intangibles .. 63,853 64,258
£345,345 £577,042
While reserving £20,555 out of
profits, Ferris has come for-
ward with an 8 p.c. distribution
on the enlarged share-capital
over the past two terms, and a
repetition would give a yield of
£8 Bs. sd. p.c. from the 19s.
currently bid for the £1 ords.
Net tangible assets backing is
18s. a share.
Future prospects of the group
depend largely on the con-
tinuance of a buoyant demand
for TV for some years to
come. This is by no means
unlikely, since the extension of
telecasting to Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth and Hobart
envisaged in the next two years
should expand the present
market by about 50 p.c.
Wattle Gully Gold Mines
'T'HE programme of plant-
± modernisation and the re-
planning of underground
workings undertaken by Wattle
Gully Gold Mines, N.L.
(Chewton, Vic.) three years
ago looks like paying-off
handsomely.
The £1363 loss incurred in
1954 has been followed by
profits of £42,303, £43,041 and,
last term, £83,049, the quantity
of ore treated has risen from
27,102 tons to 57,067 tons and
operating - costs have been
reduced from 110.75. to 86.55.
per ton of ore treated. Ore
reserves, proved and probable
“as far as the erratic distribu-
tion of gold permits of reliable
assessment,” have increased by
107,000 tons to 175,000 tons
estimated at 7.sdwt. gold per
ton, mining grade.
A big proportion of earnings
has been ploughed back into
mine-development and equip-
ment, but the cost to share-
holders has been moderate, divs.
amounting to 2s. per share in
each of the last two terms with
a much higher rate of distribu-
tion indicated in the current
term by last month’s interim
div. of 2s.
The recovered grade of the
57,067 tons (up 12,013 tons)
treated during the year to June
30, 1957, was 7.42dwt., against
6.93dwt. in the preceding
year, 21,1760 z. fine gold
(up 55560 z.) being produced.
Production is said to have been
limited by the capacity of the
battery-treatment-plant, and the
advisability of increasing
capacity is being investigated.
At the close of the term
current assets (including stores,
£17,068) amounted to £63,870,
exceeding liabilities by £43,741.
The mine account stood at
£73,942 and fixed assets at
£108,369.
There are 180,000 6s. Bd.
shares issued of which 120,000
are paid to 3s. Id. and the
balance fully-paid. Both the
contribs. and f.-p.s currently
fetch around 475., as against
30s. a year ago.


THE STORY OF LEGACY
THE TORCH
M. H. Ellis
The history and operational detail of the Legacy Movement
of Australia. A fascinating illustration of the methods, and
ramifications of a movement founded in Australia by Australian
ex-servicemen.
The author and publishers have refused to accept any profit or
royalties, which be given to the Legacy Clubs of Australia.
.At all Booksellers and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
89-95 Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
CJHOPS in New Zealand,
better stocked than for
years with luxury imported
goods, will do a brisk business
this Christmas. Buyers, spend-
ing Labor’s £lOO tax-rebate,
will be spurred-on by the
knowledge that import-control
will soon cut supplies sharply.
Labor takes office with sterl-
ing reserves at their lowest
point for about 20 years and
with export prices declining.
Obviously overseas spending
must be curtailed.
The solution, however, is
not quite sp simple as it
appears at first glance. Luxury
goods comprise only a small
proportion of total private
imports, 80 per cent, of which
consist of supplies for N.Z.
manufacturing industries. It
is evident that careful judg-
ment will be necessary in
deciding what to cut.
It rfiust also be kept in mind
that drastic reduction of
imports will give a powerful
boost to internal inflation
unless savings can be stepped
up.
Some British manufacturers
are already considering invest-
ing in factories in N.Z. The
representative of a big English
electrical-goods firm said the
other day that they would have
to do so to keep their market.
Jobs and Men
Before they are welcomed,
N.Z. should make sure that
it has the labor to staff them.
Latest figures show notified
vacancies in industry at 8332
and the number of unemployed
at 351. Nothing would be
gained by permitting workers
to be taken from old-
established industries in order
to set-up new ones.
N.Z.’s problem is how to
employ the resources it has to
the best advantage—and that
means how to earn more over-
seas exchange.
Some pertinent comment on
that subject was made this
month by a visiting economist,
Professor J. B. Condliffe, of
the University of California.
In his opinion N.Z. must raise
its sights from local to world
markets if it is to develop
satisfactorily.
It was often contended that
production which replaced
imports could relieve the strain
on the balance of payments, he
said. From this it was easy
to argue that any local pro-
duction, however much it
might depend on protection,
should be encouraged,
especially if it used local
materials. But there was a fatal
flaw in that argument.
Two-way Trade
Unless foreigners could sell
in the N.Z. market they would
not be able to buy N.Z.
exports. If they did not buy
N.Z. exports the foreign
exchange would not be avail-
able to purchase shipment and
materials for the local
industries that depended on
imports.
In deciding what industries
to foster, preference should be
given to those which could be
expected to develop export
potentials. They should be
capable of developing a steady
and large volume of production
at prices competitive in world
markets.
Professor Condliffe had a
favorable look at N.Z.’s
forestry industry. A sub-
stantial, unutilised national
asset had been brought into
production by carefully
planned and adequately capi-
talised large-scale factories
with modern equipment, he
said. The industry gave con-
siderable employment, directly
and indirectly, paid high wages,
produced goods of high quality,
and, besides supplying the
local market, which was in
some cases protected, sold its
products abroad in face of stiff
competition from established
foreign enterprises whose con-
struction costs had long since
been written off.
The industry had had its
teething troubles, but, when it
got into its stride, would be a
powerful reinforcement to the
economy, Professor Condliffe
said.
Another American visitor
month, Mr. W. J. Mullahey,
an executive of Pan-American
World Airways, also had some
suggestions to offer on how to
earn overseas funds.
N.Z., he said, should give
much more attention to its
tourist-industry, especially by
advertising its fishing, hunting
and other outdoor recreations,
in the United States and
Canada.
“I guess you’ve spent £3O
million in developing your
pulp- and paper-plant, but the
entire return from that plant
may be only one or two
millions a year,” he said. “A
similar amount spent on
tourism would return it several-
hundredfold.”
Tourism and Dollars
There is a lot of truth in
that. N.Z.'s possibilities as a
tourist-resort are still virtually
unexploited. Last year Ameri-
cans spent 1800-million dollars
on travel, only 2 per cent, of
which found its way to the
Pacific, and only a fraction of
that amount to N.Z.
There are indications that
better air- and sea-transport
facilities will over the next
few years bring a greatly
increased number of Americans
to the Pacific. If N.Z. is to
secure its share of this profit-
able traffic it must quickly
remedy the present acute short-
age of good hotel accommoda-
tion. The money would be
well spent. As has often been
pointed out, the tourist brings
overseas exchange to the
country he visits and takes
virtually nothing tangible away.
It’s good business —the sort of
business N.Z. badly needs
right now.
Dairy Produce
The chairman of the N.Z.
Dairy Products Marketing
Commission, Mr. R. A. Candy,
returning from a two-months
visit to the United States,
Canada and Britain, said he
saw little immediate hope. of
any improvement in prices of
dairy-produce on overseas
markets.
The consumption of butter
was increasing in Britain, and
was now estimated at about
7500 tons a week. However,
the supply was sufficient to
meet a demand of 8000 tons
a week throughout 1958.
The outlook for cheese on
the British market was grim.
British .farmers had increased
their output by 5000 tons in the
past two years, and their
production this year would
amount to 116,000 tons. This
had had a disastrous effect on
prices.
The chairman of the N.Z.
Dairy Board, Mr. A. Linton,
took -a more optimistic view.
He said he was not unduly
depressed about marketing
prospects.
“My view is that we have
reached the bottom of the
trough in low prices caused by
a combination of an extra-
ordinarily good season in
Europe and heavy milk pro-
duction in the U.K.,” he said.
The immediate future was
admittedly most difficult to
assess, and was dependent on
whether dumping could be
controlled and on what sort of
season Europe was likely to
experience in 1958.
Mr. Linton, who attended
the November trade-talks in
the U.K., said the delegation
pointed out that N.Z. was
supplying Britain with the
lowest-cost butter she could
fairly obtain, and should not
have to do this against compe-
tition from subsidised surplus
butter from countries whose
low domestic consumption was
due to high local prices.
Nothing much in the way
of immediate gains was
expected from the talks, but
the British Government’s agree-
ment to consider N.Z.’s protest
against dumping of subsidised
dairy-produce in the U.K.
offers a gleam of hope. Only
six months ago when the new
trade-agreement was negotiated
the British Government empha-
sised the powers which it
possessed to impose anti-
dumping duties to protect N.Z.
interests. It should be asked
to use them immediately. The
certain knowledge that N.Z.’s
falling income will soon mean
loss of business for British
exporters will lend point to
the request.
The Sharemarket
The N.Z. sharemarket was
undismayed by the change of
Government. In the first
fortnight after the election
price-rises outnumbered falls
by a wide margin. Investors
bid-up shares of companies
which did well under the last
Labor administration. Manu-
facturing concerns expected to
benefit from the imposition of
import - controls attracted
special attention. So did
forestry companies, which may
sell more timber as a result of
a stepped-up house-building
programme. Breweries were
weak and insurances irregular.


Wits in Hand
By "DRIFTWOOD FOURWINDS"
BUCKING in my launch
towards the jungle-
smothered peninsula that
hides Hal Hand’s planta-
tion, I anxiously speculated if
I would draw the luck to find
him in his bungalow or whether
he would be out supervising
some operation on the back-
reaches of his estate. However,
as a surprise, when I revolved
the helm and swung around the
jutting point, there was the man
right before me —sitting on the
>vater.
In the effervescent morning
air under the honey-sun his out-
rigger-canoe hung on the placid
surface of the bay, suspended
along the near - invisible
demarcation between clear air
and crystal water. Beneath him
serrated' a surrealistic coral-
scape of stone forests. Striped
fish darted and wavered among
the crenellations of plaster-
castles and weedy grottoes.
And it was these, with a nylon
filament poised between his
thumb and finger, that Hal was
somnolently engaged in hook-
ing.
I cut the engine, and as the
launch glided closer I mused
how characteristic was the pose,
and suffered an injection of
envy at the man’s genius for
floating in . a private strato-
sphere half-a-dozen layers
above the belt of anxieties and
vexations that beset the rest
of us.
When his face slid opposite
mine a one-sided grin of amuse-
ment was superimposed on his
unshiftable imperturbability
and hooked up one prong of
his inverted buffalo - horn
moustache.
He sat decorated by his
invariable beachcomber rig-out
of shorts and shirt so tattered
and frayed that, in the event
of his ever forcing himself to
jettison them, no native would
stoop to pick them up. And
as ever, on his ears sat the
Hal Hand trade-mark, the
plaited palm-frond hat of his
own devising and handiwork,
with the round space in the top
of the crown that allows tufts
of hair to sprout.
The launch’s wake overtook
us and rolled across to him. His
expression screwed to pseudo-
martyrdom as the canoe
bounced perilously and crests
of water slbpped in on his gear.
I was preoccupied by my
loss, and had no inclination to
humor, but propriety com-
pelled me to open with the
expected wisecracks.
“Toiling desperately as ever,
Mr. Hand?” I smiled. “I’m
worried about you. You’re
rushing full-tilt for a nervous
breakdown.”
He drawled a sardonic retort.
“It’s noble of you to tear your-
self away from your pressing
duties and suffer the rigorous
journey down here just to
supervise my health. Any
stranger might be misled into
the impression that you were
cruising around enjoying your-
self.”
I allowed my troubles to
assemble on my face.
“Er, look, Hal. I was wonder-
ing if you could spare the time
to come back with me now and
spend the night at my place.
My cash-box has been stolen
and I thought you might be
able to help me recover it.”
His eyebrows rose.
“Yeah! How much hoot
was in it?”
“Two - hundred - and - thirty
quid,” I replied miserably.
He pursed his lips, released
a whistle, and rapidly wound-
in the line.
“I'll just fling a few things
into a bag and be with you,”
he called, and began paddling
energetically for the beach.
I revved the engine and
cautiously followed him
through the passage to the
sandy shallows.
’’UGHEN, back in my own
anchorage, I gently
nudged the launch against my
dilapidated landing, the struc-
ture as usual lurched frailly.
“There’s no doubt about


you, mate. This jetty’s a dinky-
di Warwickshire effort, ’’
grinned Hal, gingerly testing
the strength of the planking by
one foot terminating in a
broken gaping sandshoe.
“It so happens,” I retorted
triumphantly, handing him
across his rough raw-hide over-
night-bag, “that it was con-
structed by my predecessor,
another one of these slipshod
Horstralians.”
“Oh! ” Unabashed, he
retreated to the safety of the
earth bank. “Our conscientious
Britishah doesn’t seem to be
busting his valve in any hurry
to reinforce it, though.”
My two dogs spurted down
the hill and cannoned into me,
assaulting me with boisterous
affection. Then my two boys
appeared sheepishly and
accepted Hal’s bag from his
hand. He greeted them
cheerily but received only a
subdued return.
“What’s biting them today?”
he inquired.
“They’re under suspicion,”
I explained, hitching a rope to
a bollard-post.
“Aw, you don’t think those
two would swipe your cash-
tin, do you?”
“Lord no,” I said, frowning.
“But the trouble is that when
something like this happens
you don’t know who to accuse,
and until you can pinpoint
suspicion you’ve got to eye
everybody askance.”
Panting and damp after the
man-sized climb of the hill in
the welter of sunlight, we
staggered up my front steps
on to the veranda and Hal
immediately slung his thatched
leaf-hat on to the floor, dived
with relief into a cane chair
and commenced to investigate
my magazines on the small
table.
“Could you tackle a glass
of cold orange-juice?” I asked,
heading for the kitchen.
“Too right,” he said.
While I was peering into the
refrigerator he bawled from
the veranda: “How’s your
form, fella? You’ve got here
all the standard paraphernalia
of the Englishman in exile —
‘Punch,’ ‘The Taller,’ ‘The
Sphere.’ Do you dress for
dinner every evening when
you’re here on your Pat
Malone?”
I returned with a jug and
two glasses on a tray.
“Naturally,” I extemporised
mendaciously, pouring out the
golden fluid. “One has to
maintain some defences to
avoid degenerating like the
uncouth Australians who reveal
so obviously their convict
origin.”
“That’s right,” he grinned,
reaching for the proffered frost-
misted glass. “In England a
century ago they used to root
out all their ratbags by packing
’em off to the colonies.” He
eyed me facetiously. “They
still do it, I see.”
SEATED at the table in my
dining-room we chewed
virgin white-and-pink crayfish-
tail doused generously in
vinegar and dusted with pepper
and salt.
Outside the open windows
sky and ocean blazed as bright
blue as a poster. The curve of
the bay below, where the
indigo depths met the reef, was
rimmed with a slim crescent of
exquisite turquoise. The sun
splashed on the weaving
coconut-fronds as on flashing
swords. And on the rippled
ocean the wavelets spangled
like the twinkles on beer-
froth. The air-currents through
the open house were summery
and, for an exception, dry.
Hal garbled through a
muffling mouthful: “Where
did you keep the cash-box,
Mel?”
“Under my bed,” I answered.
He elevated his eyebrows in
surprise. Then he tried to
expand a grin but lumps of
crayfish bulged and he was
forced to gulp hastily. Racked
by laughter he choked and
coughed. Swallowing desper-
ately he cleared his throat and
giggled weakly, “Oh, well, that’s
very easy. I’ve solved the
disappearance already.”
“Yes?” I alerted incredu-
lously.
“Sure,” he grinned. “One of
the procession of village
maidens that you instal under
your bed o’ nights took it away
with her one morning when
she departed in the ghostly
dawn.”
I veered my eyeballs up to
the ceiling, dragged on an
excruciated expression, and
groaned “I’ve just lost seven
months’ savings and you have
to spout such puerile humor.”
He giggled.
I let my annoyance swell.
“It was a lovely cash-box my
boss provided me with,” I
exploded sarcastically. “Bullet-
proof, cold-chisel-proof and
gelignite - proof. It just
happened to incorporate one
insignificant fault,” I added
bitterly. • “Anybody who felt
inclined could simply pick it
up, tuck it under one arm and
tote it away. And someone
did . . .! If I ever get that box
back again, I guarantee I’ll
set it in a block of concrete
weighing ten hundredweight.”
Hal chuckled anew.
TN the aisle of my deserted
A laborers’ dormitory, inhaling
the distinctive “boy”-aroma
from hanging perspiration-
saturated laplaps, we stared
about at the suspended lizard-
skin koondoo - drums, the
viciously - sharp steel - headed
■spears, the bows and barbed*
arrows, the cut-out pictures
dredged from my discarded
magazines of elephants and
lions—animals they have never
encountered, which apparently
had drawn their interest and
curiosity—and a semi-nude of
Marilyn Monroe pasted to the
wall.
We investigated the three
buildings. Hal assiduously
shook kitbags and prodded
bundles and peered under
bunks but I could not develop
any ardor. Some of my
proteges are so mentally
primitive they make an amoeba
seem like a quiz-champion, but
I still could not visualise one
of them being so simple as to
try to conceal four-and-a-half-
thousand shilling-pieces in their
bare dormitories.
“What do you suppose is in
all these enignatical bundles and
swags, then, Mel-” asked Hal,
holding up a trussed package.
“Dozens of my missing
knives and hammer- and axe-
heads, for a certainty,” I
complained acidly. “The dis-
appearance-rate of such imple-
ments on this plantation has
to be experienced to be
believed. They all end up as
prized possessions of some-
body’s Momma and Poppa at
Wosara or Ambunti.”
He chuckled.
Disappointedly we wandered
outside and lengthened our
stride to tackle the hill again.
“Well,” I said, “the box must
be planted in the jungle some-
where. Originally it sat under
my bed. Now it’s anywhere
on an island thirty miles long
by ten miles wide. I can wave
that cash goodbye.”
Hal reprimanded me sternly.
“Now listen, cobber. You're
taking just the wrong view with
that first-it-was-and-next-it-
wasn’t attitude. You're talking
as though some malicious
spirit had floated in the window
and by necromancy evaporated
the cash-box into the atmo-
sphere. Your money was
removed by a man who walked
to your house with a certain
motive, by a certain route, at
a certain time, and possibly
left traces. He encountered
probable obstacles and must
by circumstances have been
restricted to a limited range
of procedures. If we investigate
on that understanding, I’m
tipping we can narrow , the
suspects down to the culprit.”
“Yes ...” I said dubiously.
We assisted our knees with
our hands as we struggled up
the steps and out of the blaze
of the sun back on to the shady
veranda.
TN a cane chair Hal had
drawn up one leg, in an
individual mannerism of his,
and was biting the knee
pensively, the undisciplined
binder-twine of his moustache
draped ludicrously over it.
He asked, “Now, you say
that the cash-tin was in place
midday yesterday, which was
a Sunday, because you went
to it and took out four-pounds
you had been minding for your
cook-boy Kumarti. Was he
anywhere near when you threw
back the lid?”
I hesitated. “Well, he was
standing behind me,” I
admitted.
Hal jacked his eyebrows
meaningfully.
“My two house-boys knew it
was always full of money,” I
protested irritably. “They feel
the box’s weight every morning
when they shift it to broom.
If Kumarti or Abua had
coveted it, the box would have
vanished long ago. They are
both meticulously honest. At
least, by boy-standards. Any
of my cigarettes left lying
around disappear, of course,
but a thing like a cash-box —
never L”
“Hmm,” murmured Hal. “Go
on.”
“Well, after I hancled
Kumarti his four notes, I
watched him bustle down the
slope. On the track he passed
three of my Aitapes striding up.
They bought me three laplaps
to be sewn.
“I’ve got an antique sewing-
machine here. I’d have done
myself a favor to have pitched
it into the ocean long ago.
While I own it I’m the target
for every boy up this end of
the island who happens to
acquire a piece of unsewn
calico and wants the hem
stitched to convert it into a
proper laplap.
“The trio carried long
bamboo supsups for spearing
fish along the northern reef.
The tall cadaverous one,
Dango, was a Jap collaborator
during the war and afterwards
was sentenced to a few years
at calaboose. An unusual
reserved, introspective native
with a sunken-eyed stare.
“The medium boy I can
never remember his name; I
call him Bow-legs—is one of
those mute, effaced specimens
(Continued on page 49)


The Man on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(3)
[Tfd Alexander, importer to the
U.B. of “quality goods” in the
boxing line, had come to Australia
and induced Oriffo to return with
him.]
THEY were, met at
Chicago by the city’s
prize featherweight,
Tommy White, and his
backer, George Rose. White
was a tradesman ; he had to
his credit two draws with
the champion, George Dixon.
Dixon was not matched with
Griffo just then. The guinea-
pig selected for treatment was
George Lavigne, the Saginaw
Kid, a tough gentleman who
soon afterwards bashed his
way to the world’s lightweight
championship.
This was before the advent of
the big individual promoter —
Tex Rickard’s first gamble was
still thirteen years away —and
prize-fights were sponsored
for the most part by Athletic
Clubs copied from British
models such as the old Pelican
and the National Sporting
Club. Membership of the
American clubs was demo-
cratically wide - open ; you
could join up at the nearest
saloon.
A RRANGEMENTS for the
Griffo-Lavigne contest
were taken in hand by the
Columbian Athletic Club- of
Roby, Indiana, for a purse of
£l2OO and side - wagers of
£lOOO.
George Rose, although he
had not seen the newcomer in
action, backed him on the
persuasion of rumors that the
Australian was unbeatable.
The men were to weigh Bst.
121 b. at three-o’clock in the
afternoon.
The Australian party
occupied a flat on the city’s
west side, towards Garfield
Park, but Griffo was seldom in
residence. In a day or two he
struck up acquaintance with
a spirited bunch, and the
numbers quickly snowballed.
Festive characters were as
plentiful in Chicago as in
Sydney, and Griffo floated in
eddies of conviviality.
Alexander noted with con-
cern that he was often miss-
ing for three or four days at a
stretch. Somebody would
then bring him home, badly in
need of sleep, and looking less
like a professional athlete than
a derelict dredged out of the
gutter.
Plainly this was no way to
prepare for the Saginaw Kid,
who thrived on punishment
and could also deal it out in
great abundance. Alexander
and Rose put their heads
together and finally worried
out a solution. The party
transferred into prohibition
territory in Riverside, Illinois,
15 miles from Chicago.
For Griffo, life became real
and it became earnest. The
contest was still eight weeks
ahead. Plenty of time, if the
erratic little devil would only
stick to the job.
Griffo never had much taste
for the steady grind of train-
ing, which made him ache with
boredom. He would put snap
into his work only when he had
an audience, and Alexander
knew it. Onlookers were roped
in on any pretext. Martin and
Jack Costello came often, and
sometimes they brought girls
with them, prepared to utter
sounds of admiration. Then,
Alexander relates, Griffo
“would work like a Trojan.”
With these inducements, and
the booze-free climate of River-
side, Griffo was rounding into
spectacular condition. Rose
was gratified, but he was itching
to know how the fellow scaled,
against his own champion,
Tommy White. A private try-
out before a select crowd
settled the question convin-
cingly ; Griffo flattened White
in the second round. A week
later, he repeated the dose.
Rose ceased to worry about the
side-stake.
Griffo now seemed to have
three or four demons packed
inside him. He was ready to
explode at a touch, and what
was likely to happen when he
got into the ring was an excit-
ing conjecture. Griffo full of
fire, Lavigne a dour lion of a
man—there was never a battle
of richer promise.
It did not take place, and
the hole in history is still
lamentable. When the party
got down to Roby, they found
that the Governor of Indiana
had vetoed the proceedings,
nobody knows why.
When Lavigne and Griffo
met in full-scale contest the
following year, Lavigne put up
with a ferocious hammering for
20 rounds. But all he said was,
IKE WEIR
“Lucky for me I never struck
him that time at Roby!” For
he knew, as everybody did,
that the marvellous bloom of
Riverside had burned away.
Physically, it was Griffo’s high
tide. It was the last time that
he knew what it was to be
tuned to concert-pitch.
TT N the general disappoint-
ment, Griffo escaped from
his keepers for a week and
turned up in a very unbuttoned
state.
He endeared himself to the
denizens of bar-rooms in
several ways. He had a robust
capacity lor grog ; he would
never fall asleep while there
was an ounce of fun left in
prospect. Practical jokes came
easily to him ; he was full of
suggestions for mad capers
which always seemed laugh-
able at the time. He could sing
a costermonger song (in one
admirer's opinion) ‘ as well as
Albert Chevalier.”
Then there was the adroit-
ness with hands and head which
was his special turn. There was
always a handkerchief in his
pocket lor his punch-defying
display, or he would scoop flies
in mid-air with those incredibly
fast hands of his. He had an
exact eye for distance. They
say that he could with one
punch break the glass of a clock
held against the wall, without
disturbing the hands.
Once he even promised tO;
catch a bullet fired from an old
smooth-bore. The whole thing
was rigged, Griffo stood at a
distance, with a bullet pocketed
under the thumb of a boxing-
glove. One of' his confederates
was to fire the musket, care-
fully loaded with blank.
Unknown to Griffo, his
hilarious friends substituted a
live charge. With the crack of
the shot, there was a cascade
of glass behind Griffo’s head,
and an alarmed howl from the
featherweight. He was brought
round only by massive doses
of beer.
Some of his bar-room exhibi-
tions were unrehearsed. There
was the time when that
abominable snowman of the
ring. Mysterious Billy Smith, a
hard-bitten and hard-biting
welterweight, who had left
tooth-marks on Joe Walcott
and several other adversaries,
walked into a saloon and
sighted Griffo drinking at the
bar.
Smith had some obscure
feud with the Australian, and,
to relieve the tedium, he hoisted
up a brass cuspidor and hurled
it at Griffo’s skull. But Griffo’s
eye picked up the movement in
the bar mirror; at the last
moment, he rolled his head


Now!
what you've always wanted-
a
T
CREA:
in your
Pure Wool
slacks
That gives you everything you
want when you buy new slacks
a truly permanent crease,
plus all the advantages of
pure wool cloth . . . which is
harder wearing, smarter look-
ing, and wrinkle resistant.
Do what you like to those
creases, they never come out,
never need even the touch of
an iron. They’re guaranteed !
Your slacks are now per-
manently smart. Even if they
are soaked in a shower of rain,
when they dry out, your per-
manent crease will still be
there.
\
V
N
m
\\ 1 Wli t
vm
** r
onto *»**>*»# >t
>|: j•~ ' v n {■■■>. ?s>' :<•'#
*% ViU ir&J&tii
•' f < \ v~r~ ■'"••
w
V
Look for the “PERMA-CREASE” tag.
You’ll find it on all Stamina pure wool
“PERMA-CREASE” De Luxe Slacks. It’s
your guarantee that the knife-edged smart-
ness of your new Stamina sports trousers
is permanent.
The Makers of Stamina Clothes
are using
the Si-ro-set process
to C.S.I.R.O’s. requirements
Oe Luxe
Trousers
M
with PERMA-CREASE
aside and let the missile sail
idly by.
“The man’s a marvel,” his
companion said afterwards.
He can even dodge Cuspidors
with his back turned.”
(Tyr RIFFO’S performances in
Chicago were not all bar-
room affairs. He landed a
week's engagement at the
Grotto Theatre, Michigan
Avenue. All he had to do was
to spar learnedly with Barron
for a fee approximating £IOO.
Alexander discovered that
Griffo had “bitten the manager
for the best part of ,it in
advance.” Such forwardness
in finance on Griffo’s part must
have been accidental.
Under the double assault of
pneumonia and typhoid,
Alexander was inactive for
some weeks. Griffo, on the
other hand, was extremely
active. The record is that
Barron and Costello tried to
curb him, but he was beyond
persuasion. Like a snowflake
he melted into Chicago’s giddy
whirl, and finally Alexander
wrote him off as a dead loss.
IT ATE in 1893 Griffo finally
exposed himself to
America in a public contest, a
six-round bout with the Negro
lightweight Young Scotty, a
violent puncher. Griffo gave
his own saucy touch to the pro-
ceedings by rolling into the
ring distinctly unsober.
Only the year before, the
great singer Caruso had made
his debut similarly inflated, and
had been hissed into the wings.
But, unlike Caruso, Griffo
already had a reputation, and
the onlookers were prepared
to forgive him a few oddities
of temperament.
He was not so far under the
weather as to miss the chance
to swagger. Not even bothering
to put up his hands in the first
round, he played brazenly to
the gallery, ducking and slip-
ping while Scotty’s punches
burned past his quicksilver
head. At the end of the round,
he didn’t go to his corner, but
leaned over the ropes and took
the spectators into his confi-
dence. Scotty, he was sorry to
say, was no boxer but a
bloomin’ blacksmith. If they
would only wait until his head
cleared, he added, he would
demonstrate how the thing was
done in Australia.
His head cleared with sus-
picious rapidity, as it happened.
In no time he was raking the
unhappy Negro with a bristling
two-handed Griffo offensive,
which at its best was nothing
short of a hailstorm of punches,
(Continued on page 39)


A Picture of Legacy
THE TORCH
By J. B. BLAIR
ASKED what they understood by
“Legacy,” most Australians would
probably say it was a charitable organisa-
tion devoted to the welfare of the children
of Servicemen killed in the war.
That’s a loose definition, with some
truth in it, but it’s one no member of
Legacy will accept. Legatees maintain
that the very name of the movement
excludes the implication of charity ; the
children of dead soldiers are, in fact, a
legacy left to their surviving comrades.
Not a burdensome legacy which can be
disowned, but an honorable one which
it is their proud privilege to accept.
M. H. Ellis, in The Torch : A Picture of
Legacy, has set out not so much to write
a history of the movement as to show
what it means to its members and what
it means to the thousands of youngsters
who are the beneficiaries of its activities.
The idea of Legacy was conceived by
Major-General Sir John Gellibrand, who,
in 1923, founded in Hobart the Remem-
brance Club, whose objectives were to
guard the interests of returned soldiers
with a view to mutual assistance among
former A.I.F. men. Although this is a
long way removed from the aims of
present-day Legacy, the germ was there.
As Lieut.-General Savige, a staff-officer
under Gellibrand and, at the latter’s
instigation, one of the founders of
Melbourne Legacy, has written, it led
logically in time to work among war-
widows and war-orphans, since “nothing
could inflame a soldier’s imagination like
the realisation of a need to care for a
lost mate’s dependants.”
It seems to have been this spirit which
inflamed the small group which, inspired
by a letter from Gellibrand to Savige,
got together in September, 1923, and
formed Melbourne Legacy Club.
The first tentative plans of the Mel-
bourne group were to assist returned men
to rehabilitate themselves, but, Mr. Ellis
says, it soon became obvious that this
was less of a problem than had been
thought. On the other hand “the pro-
blems of war-widows and orphans were
very obviously multiplying.”
Yet it was only when Frank Seileck, acting
as secretary of the embryo movement, sug-
gested a name which crystallised their ideas
lor them, that the founders began to see
their mission clearly. His choice, “Legacy,”
implying as it did an inheritance of responsi-
bility, no doubt had a profound influence
on the thought of the promoters of the
club. It undoubtedly started the trends
leading to Frank Doolan s train of ideas and
to the adoption in October, 1925, of his
dictum that “the real field for the move-
ment's work lay in the care, guidance and
encouragement of the families of those
comrades who, through death, were them-
selves no longer there to give these
benefits.”
In the 32 years since then the work
and scope of Legacy has been enormously
extended, but the purpose remains un-
changed. From Hobart and Melbourne
the movement spread to Sydney in 1926,
to Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Canberra
in 1928 and to a host of provincial cities
and towns in the years that followed. At
the latest count there were 45 Legacy
Clubs with a total membership of 3950.
The Torch, while dealing with the
movement in general, derives most of its
detail from the working of Sydney
Legacy, with which the author has had a
long familiarity. The Sydney club has
its-own large city premises, functioning as
its clubhouse, its forum, the centre in which
it exercises its spirit of comradeship as
between its members and between' the
members and their charges. Here senior-
legatees hold their meetings and perform
their Legacy duties. But the House belongs
equally to the widows and children of
Legacy whose entrance-fees and annual
subscriptions have been paid for them in the
loss of a husband or father. It operates
primarily for them; it is there because of
their needs.
To the club gymnasium four nights a
week go upwards of 200 boys and 300
girls. There is a well-stocked library. A
dental clinic looks after the dental health
of all children enrolled (a year’s tally is
1000 extractions; 6000 fillings and
repairs; 1100 X-rays and 100 dentures).
A women’s auxiliary is kept busy sewing
gym.-tunics and shorts. There are car-
pentry and handicraft classes for boys,
millinery for girls. Facilities are avail-
able for lectures, film-nights, dances,
debates, indoor games. Above all, there
is advice for those who seek it and sym-
pathy and help for those who need it
Advice and help are extended in two
ways—by means of the various commit-
tees which deal with specific problems
and by the personal-adviser system.
Much of the work falls into a pattern.
Pensions and repatriation benefits are the
responsibility of the Pensions Com-
mittee, which sees that the widow and her
children get their full entitlement.
Medical and surgical aid, where neces-
sary, are another obvious task —Legacy
has many medicoes on its membership-list.
Employment has always been a strong
point with Legacy, which believes in cul-
tivating self-help and self-reliance. in
between the wars the problem often was
to find the job ; since World War II the
emphasis has been more on steering the
youngsters away from high-wage dead-end
jobs into ones offering better chances for
the future. In the case of widows with
young children everything is done to help
the widow not to go out to work, or to
accept merely a part-time job.
Even housing-problems are not in-
soluble, Legacy has discovered. Homes
have been found for large numbers of
people who despaired of ever finding one.
These range from rooms or a share of a
legatee’s own home to cottages and flats
(without key-money). Small housing-
loans have been made—in many cases free
of interest —to bridge the gap between
funds held and deposit needed to buy a
house. The club has established holiday
homes at Narrabeen and Moss Vale ; a
convalescent home at Kyle Bay, on
George’s River ; three hostels for students
and apprentices; a home for elderly
widows.
But perhaps the most unique thing
about Legacy, and the feature which most
exemplifies the spirit of the movement, is
the adviser-system, under which a mem-
ber volunteers and is appointed to act as
a sort of deputy-father to one or more
war-orphans. The task an adviser under-
takes is no light one, and his only reward,
apart from the gratitude of those he
assists (by no means always assured), is
the satisfaction of a job well done.
His work may include such assorted
chores as petty plumbing repairs ; advice
on financial problems ; a heart-to-heart
talk with a teenager; assistance with
homework ; co-operation with Children’s
Court officials to put a young delinquent
back on the straight-and-narrow ; acting
as Father Christmas ; giving-away a bride.
In short, most of the things the young-
ster’s lost father might have been called-
upon to do —and a few more besides.
Is Legacy nearing the end of its task?
Mr. Ellis says far from it. “At least a
generation, perhaps two generations or
more of service lie ahead of it.” The
work is increasing ; the strain is increas-
ing ; the need for funds is increasing.
But Legacy will continue “so long as the
need for it survives, so long as its trust
survives, so long as-there is a widow
or a ward whose cares it has inherited as
an obligation from a dead comrade.”
THE CHARTER OF LEGACY
The spirit of Legacy is service. The care
of dependants of comrades who served
their country in war and who gave their
lives or health affords a field of service.
Safeguarding the interests of children is
a service worth rendering, and their
interests include their mental, moral,
vocational and physical welfare. Personal
effort is the main essential. Inasmuch as
these are the activities of Legacy, it is
your privilege to accept the legacy of
fallen comrades.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
In last year’s A.J.C. Summer
Cup A. Mulley scored on Bay-
stone, and the year before he
got there on Viteren. Others
with two wins have included E.
Doon, J. Duncan, S. Davidson
and M. McCarten. Andy Knox
rode three winners of the
Cup, but the best record stands
to the credit of Ted Bartle, who
landed it five times. Still a
regular at metropolitan race-
meetings and looking fit, Bartle
rode Malagigi (1940), Young
Crusader (1937), Dais ton
(1930), King of the Forest
(1921) and Braille (1920).
Top-class horses to win the
Summer Cup since 1927 have
included Donald, Pretzel,
Snowstream and Carioca. In
most years lightly-weighted
horses have landed the money.
Summer Cup selections:
Caranna, 1 ; Aqua Boy, 2;
Dalstar, 3.
First leg of the Tattersall’s
Club double, the £l5OO
Carrington Stakes, will bring
together a field of smart
sprinters at Randwick. It’s one
race in which jockeys cannot
employ slowing-up tactics: the
winner generally gets over the
six furlongs in about I.lo} ; the
emphasis is on speed. Last
year’s winner, Maniana, ridden
by N. McGro w d i e, ran
record time, 1.9}, for the
Carrington, In 1945 Bern-
borough ran I.lo} under the
tidy weight of 9.6. In 1939
Delmestor lumned 9.7 in
recording I.lo}.
Sydney racing clubs list 89
meetings to be held between
Wednesday next (January 1,
Tattersall’s Cup day) and next
December 27. The A.J.C. will
stage 19 meetings at Randwick,
one of them on Anzac Day (a
Friday), and as well it has 15
meetings programmed for War-
wick Farm, six of them mid-
week meetings. The Sydney
Turf Club’s meetings will be
on 28 Saturdays and 21 mid-
week days, the balance being
made up of four Tattersall’s
Club and two City Tattersall’s
Club meetings, all at Randwick.
The four days of the A.J.C.
Easter carnival will begin on
Saturday, April 5 ; opening day
of the spring fixtures will be
October 4.
The A.J.C. must have been
disappointed with the small
nomination of 10 two-year-olds
lor the £l5OO December Stakes
on Boxing Day, but good class
is represented and a keen race
could result. Man of Iron
could go well after his Canter-
bury Park success. In earlier
years the December Stakes was
decided at five furlongs. Over
the many years of its running
the best youngsters of their
“There, now — aren't you happier to know that We're
BOTH temperamental?"
years have been in the line-up,
and several of them broke the
minute. One of the first to do
so was Elizabeth March in
1927. She ran 59}. Pandava
cut the time to 58} in 1937.
N.S.W.-bred Todman won last
year’s six-furlongs Stakes by
three lengths in I.ll}. One of
the most brilliant gallopers
produced in recent years, Tod-
man holds the Australian
record for five furlongs, 57},
run at Randwick on December
22 last.
At what’s titled the National
sale at Wellington (N.Z.), on
January 17 and 22, some 380
youngsters will be paraded.
Tulloch’s performances are
bound to boost prices for the
progeny of his sire, Khorassan,
though that importation
already had an imposing record
at the stud. His many other
winners have included Cole-
ridge (15 firsts and £21,150 in
stakes).
A.J.C. chairman A. G. Potter
presided at the annual prize-
night of the apprentices’ school
at Randwick racecourse. The
programme included four
three-round boxing bouts, S.
Farrell gaining a special prize
lor the best exhibition. All
eight boys who donned gloves
were given prizes, whips for the
winners and saddle-covers for
the losers; so Farrell landed a
double. Dux of the school,
Ashley Bawden, who has
ridden a number of winners on
Sydney tracks and 77
altogether, mostly at Brisbane
and Queensland country
fixtures, collected the Perkins
Gup and Wootton Saddle
prizes. Ray Patterson, runner-
up, was handed the Potter-
Mackay Saddle, and third on
the list, W. Erickson, also
received a handsome saddle.
Other prizewinners included* G.
Howard, R. Baker, D. Allen
and D. Osborne.
While 1957 will, of course, be
remembered as Tulloch’s year,
Melbourne racegoers were
privileged to see another
remarkable performer also —•
the jumping mare Pedro’s
Pride. During this year’s
jumping-season, the daughter
of Don Pedro had seven starts
over the fences, for six wins—-
including the Grand
Steeple and the Australian
Steeple. The handicappers
piled more and more weight on
the mare, until she won the
Godfrey Watson Steeple with
the prodigious burden of 12.9.
This writer retains a vivid
picture of Pedro’s Pride down
on her nose after jumping the
last obstacle in this year’s
Grand National Steeple.
Unaided by her jockey, who
was struggling to keep his seat,
the big mare picked herself up,
ran to the leaders in a couple
of strides, and was eased-down
to win the race by 10 lengths.
It will be a long time before
we see her like again.
It is to the credit of the
ranger at Caulfield track that
1957 saw a series of new
records established at that
course. A week or so back
Livorno ran 10 furlongs in
Australian record time, Sir
Pyrean twice set new figures for
the course over seven furlongs
last August, and over six a
few weeks ago; Adelina set
new Australasian figures for
H furlongs in the Oakleigh
Plate, and Tulloch new figures
for a mile-and-a-half in the
Caulfield Cup. In the autumn
Cherete established a new
course-record for. five furlongs,
and Beaupa broke the two-
miles record.
• • • •
At the presentation-dinner of
the V.R.C. apprentices’ school
the G. Raymond Saddle for
Dux was awarded to Fred
Hoysted’s apprentice,
Hungarian-born Peter Bakos.
Strangely, another Hungarian-
born lad, A. Markus, was
runner-up. Bakos’s mark was
96 per cent. ; Markus scored 90
per cent. —both excellent against
the class average of 65.2 per
cent. The school aims to teach
the lads not only the finer
points of their calling but
veterinary science, general
education, and deportment, and
Victoria’s fine crop of young
riders is a tribute to its efforts.
• • • •
Interesting two-horse race at
Hamilton (Vic.) recently;
Saintly Fire against Hellfire.
Nice to record that virtue was
triumphant. Saintly Fire bolted
in!
Three Maiden Handicaps
were programmed at the latest
Hawkesbury meeting, an


indication of the number of
non-winners training on Sydney
tracks. In the first High
Chanter had an easy task. He’s
a four-year-old gelding by
High Chancellor (imp.) from
Sweet Song. After a number of
earlier failures, Ihumata,
trained by Jack Denham,
landed the second division,
but the usual solid stable
support for a Denham-
trained galloper d i d n’t
appear to be in evidence.
Ihumata is from a half-sister
to Tsajadyne and Atellor. She’s
by Belvedere (imp.) from
Ajadene (sister to Dynamite)
by Ajax. Delrosa, third Maiden
winner, is a half-sister to Rio
Fe. She’s by Delville Wood
(imp.) from Rosa Fe by
Manitoba (imp.). Delrosa
started second - favorite and
won nicely.
• • • •
“Sawtell”: One of the fastest
juveniles seen out in Adelaide
this season is Naecon, winner
of two races in brilliant style.
A son of Confessor, former
N.S.W. sire now at the stud
in S.A., he is the first colt foal
produced by Naejohn. Her
fillies were very good, prob-
ably the best was Naetor,
winner of numerous races on
country and city tracks in S.A.
but N a e m i s s, Naepeak,
Naehowe, Nae Cheval and
Naelass were all winners. Both
Naejohn and Naetor were this
season booked to new imported
sire Orgoglio.
* * *
P. O. MacCabe: John Buchan,
imported into Australia and
raced by my late godfather,
P. H. Osborne, wasn’t such an
inferior piece of horseflesh (B.
18/12/’57) —he won distance
races in England before winning
several out here, including one
of the big Christmas-time
handicaps at Randwick. Also,
if memory serves me right, he
sired w.-f.-a. and Anniversary
Handicap winner Freedom.
Several racehorses have been
named after living persons in
comparatively recent times in
Australia; two spring to my
mind: K.T.A., second to Peri-
woo in the Gimcrack Stakes
around 1921, named for Ken
Austin, owner of 1956 A.J.C.
Derby winner Monte Carlo ;
and Pat, by imported Irish
horse Denis Boy, owned by my
uncle, F. P. MacCabe ; named
after Pat Osborne, and a winner
at Randwick and Rosehill.
Incidentally, Wish Wynne, men-
tioned by “Retired Bagman,”
was one of three successive
Doncaster winners ridden by
Jack Toohey, who received a
pair of silver spurs from the
A.J.C. in recognition of the
feat,
+ 4*
Sporting Dragnet
After being named captain of
the South African team for the
first Test against England last
December, Jacky McGlew had
to withdraw from the side
because a shoulder-injury in
the England-v.-Natal match had
not properly mended. Captain
named in his stead was Clive
van Ryneveld, later also to
lead S.A. in the last three Tests.
This year the roles were
reversed. Van Ryneveld was
appointed skipper, but had to
withdraw when he split a
finger stopping a drive from
Benaud (and Benaud can cer-
tainly hit them) in the closing
minutes of the Australia-w-
Western Province game.
McGlew was then in his turn
appointed coin-tosser.
In the two Sheffield Shield
games ending on Dec. 17 Vic-
toria, at home, walloped
Queensland by an innings and
69 runs ; in Perth, after mak-
ing 8-532, W.A. had a big first-
innings win over N.S.W. The
two defeated sides fought brave
rearguard actions; N.S.W.,
with not quite so far to go,
managed to stave-off outright
defeat.
In the first N.S.W.-v.-W.A.
game this season, in Sydney
and won outright by N.S.W.,
the positions of the teams were
reversed. With the same N.S.W.
bowlers operating and the same
W.A. batting line-up as in the
Perth game, W.A., batting first,
was dismissed in its first innings
for 152, and was for the rest
of the match battling (unsuc-
cessfully) to avoid outright
defeat. An example of the
glorious uncertainty of cricket!
And here’s another for the
uncertainty-of-cricket depart-
ment. Queensland opening-bat
Ray Reynolds followed his 174
against N.S.W. and 168 and 20
not-out against W.A. with a
“pair” against Victoria. The
spectacles dragged his average
down from 181 exactly half-
way, to 90.5 —still a Bradman-
like enough average.
“Severas”: In the six-team
Sydney junior-cricket competi-
tion in which I struggle to make
a few runs, there are players
named Bail, Fielder and Duck.
“Cunedda”: Melbourne
“Herald” cricket-writer John
Priestley recently reported a
brawl in a junior cricket-match
after a “stand-in” square-leg
umpire gave a decision
“perhaps too blatantly in favor
of his own team.” Two official
umpires are very unusual in
junior cricket, and con-
sequently a member of the
batting side usually officiates at
square-leg. But my experience
is that the “stand-in” is, as a
rule, scrupulously fair. On no
occasion, in any junior game
I’ve watched this season in
Sydney, has a “stand-in’s”
decision been questioned by the
fielding side. Indeed, more than
once I have seen such umpires
give a batsman “run-out” when
Ihere seemed fully as much
justification for “not-out.”
“Kejokada”: Two hat-tricks
included in taking 13 wickets
for 1 run is not a bad after-
noon’s cricket! That was
15-year-old Eddie Peal’s effort
in a recent Caulfield (Vic.)
junior game —8-0 (all clean-
bowled) and 5-1!
* * *
“Keroz”: In Aces and Places
(R.P. 6/11 /’57) Harry Hopman
relates that, after the 1953
Davis Cup “battle of the
titans,” when Hoad defeated
Trabert 13-11, 6-3, 2-6, 4-6,
7-5 to help Australia on to the
retaining of the Cup after
America held what looked like
an invulnerable 2-1 lead, Hoad
was inundated with telegrams.
“The strain of listening through
the long fight with its fluctua-
ting fortunes left its mark on
‘Cot Case,’ who wired Lew:
‘You may have saved Australia
but you’ve put me to bed.’ ”
In similar vein , “A Nervous
Wreck” wired: “You beauty,
but what about my doctor’s
bills?” I wonder whether the
challenge-round beginning to-
morrow will produce anything
as tense.
* * *
“Jadas”: The extra clubs
in Peter Thomson's bag (which
cost him two strokes in this
year’s Australian Open) recall a
neat sporting “out.” A few
years ago Miss B. Cheney, a
Victorian champion, took part
in the Methodist Ladies’ Col-
lege Old Girls’ golf-tourna-
ment. As expected, she easily
led the field, but apparently
was reluctant to take home a
“gift” trophy. Her clubs were
counted after the game —one
too many, and she was dis-
qualified. The discovery of the
offending club enabled her to
take part in the tournament
without being charged with
“taking candy from kids.”
* * *
“Jock”: Cheapest bowling-
club in Australia is at Chats-
wood (Sydney). It is the Senior
Citizens’ Club, members of
which are old-age pensioners.
At the Senior Citizens’ Centre
in Archer Street the local
council has laid down three
rinks. Entrance-fee is 3s. 6d. a
member, and a game will set a
player back a bob.
* * *
“Bicky”: Brownlow Medal-
list Ron (“Smoky”) Clegg, who
has been appointed playing-
coach of South Melbourne for
the 1958 season, will have the
task ahead of him if he is go-
ing to land the V.F.L. premier-
ship for the Swans. The record
of playing-coaches in Victorian
league-football is not particu-
larly good. In post-war years
only two have led iheir teams
to premierships: Dick
Reynolds, who guided
Essendon to victory in two
grand-finals (1949 and 1950),
and Charlie Sutton, under
whom Footscray took out its
first pennant, in 1954.
* * *
“Zend A vesta”: That E. S.
Scorfield (B. 9/10/'57) was
playing for Percy Park (Eng.)
in 1910 and received his inter-
national cap (Rugby Union)
means that Scorfield is a fair-
dinkum' “Geordie.” Percy
Park, a Tynemouth team, is in
Northumberland. I played for
Percy Park second team in
1926, before coming to Aussie.
As far as I .know, only two
Northumbrians have played
Union for England Scor-
field and Catchieside, both
Percy Park men. Percy Park,
like the old grey mare, ain't
what it used to be, Rugby
Union standards being pretty
low in Northumberland now
-—-why, they’ve even got a dog-
racing track on the county
ground at Gosforth! An ex-
Northumbrian captain, now
living in Newcastle (Eng.), in a
recent letter told me that “the
round-ball game is slowly but
surely killing Rugby . . . from
the Tyne, right through to the
Border at Berwick.”
* * *
“Keima”: A lightweight
named Sinn fought at Brisbane
on Friday night Dec. 13, and
lost on points to Johnny Jarratt,
of Casino. No, not Bobby Sinn
—Alf Carey was what was on
the bills, but Sinn is his right
name. Carey has had four pro-
fessional fights for three k.o.s
and this loss. Bobby Sinn,
incidentally, the Australian
featherweight champion but
now in fact a lightweight,
fought at Brisbane on Tuesday
Dec. 17, but was thrashed
in an over-the-limit contest by
featherweight contender Frank
Bennett, who should now get a
shot at Sinn's title.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
all timed and directed with
dreadful accuracy. Scotty was
obliterated.
Griffo’s superb defence, his
habit of vanishing under an
opponent’s nose, aroused so
much astonishment that some
people rated him a ring will-o’-
the-wisp, a fugitive nobody
could overtake. W. J. Doherty
was at pains to repudiate any
such notion. He wrote:
He was by no manner of means
the dancing, smirking, tap-anrl-get-
away type that rightly so irritates
ring officials and spectators alike.
.... He never on any occasion fought
on the retreat, or did the “bicycle
act, as the modern term runs.
His footwork, as ‘a matter of fact,
was poor. He relied on his hands,
on head movements, and on a sort
of swaying movement from the
hips up, to avoid blows.
TOURING the rest of that
■ L - y year and the early part of
1894, he beat A 1 Jansen and
Ed McCabe and won on a
foul from Jerry Marshall. He
also drew with Tommy White
over eight rounds, and then
ran into the first top-flight per-
former of his American tour.
This was Ike Weir, the Bel-
fast Spider, an earlier holder of
the world’s championship. The
men came together in the hall
of “Battery D” on Michigan
Avenue. Alexander, who was
present, relates that Griffo was
fat and untrafned and had
seemingly prepared for the
occasion by having an energetic
shave and shower-bath.
Nevertheless he battered the
Spider in a manner which
electrified the packed house.
At first Weir seemed to equal
Griffo in dizzy speed and non-
stop activity, but the catch was
that Griffo knew what he was
doing, whereas a lot of the
Spider’s dancing was just
dancing. Weir was a leaf in the
gale. In the third round he
reeled brokenly under a storm
of punishment, and the police
moved in to save him from
further misery.
Rarely had an ex-champion
been burnt-off in such summary
style, and the press came out in
a rash of applause. The wheels
were greased for triumphs fistic
and financial, if Griffo would
only attend to business*and
keep himself mildly fit.
But all that was too much
trouble. He boxed “limited”
bouts of from four to eight
rounds, one of them with his
old rival Billy Murphy.
Some of these affairs were
“no-decision” contests, a system
of running prize-fights which
looked like prize-fights and
sounded like prize-fights, but
which were reputedly some-
thing different.
The device was very suitable
for regions where the genuine
article was forbidden. No
winner was announced, and the
battle, no matter how gory,
ranked therefore as an exhibi-
tion, and legal. Even with an
eight-round bout to a decision,
it was a common stipulation
that the verdict would be a
draw if both men were on their
feet at the end.
Griffo, who rarely knocked
his opponents out, naturally
piled up more than his share of
draws. So much for the record
—but Griffo, on a count-back,
was always miles in front.
*TrHE year 1894 saw his
I* collision with the world’s
lightweight champion, lack
McAuliffe.
The champion was five years
older than Griffo, and two
inches taller. The opinion had
grown up that he was one of
the most “scientific” boxers
ever to enter a ring, and over
years of fighting he had never
been defeated. He took the
record with him into retire-
ment, although, scientific to the
last, he preserved it intact with
the help of some peculiar
goings-on.
The contest was fixed to take
place at Coney Island on
August 27, in the pavilion of
the Seaside Athletic Club—the
“big barn down by the sea” of
the sporting writers, and a
choice venue for important
fights.
The articles carried an odd
provision : the contest would be
governed not by Queensberry
rules, but by the worn-out code
of the American Athletic
Union. This meant, amongst
ether things, that any knock-
down would terminate the
round, as was the case under
the old London P.R. rules.
Unusual, too, was the fact
that the referee, Maxie Moore,
was making his first essay in
that capacity. Nobody was
surprised when it proved to be
also his last.
In New York, Griffo trained
as unfaithfully as he had in
Chicago. His distracted
manager, Williams, devoted a
lot of time to disconnecting him
from the brass footrails of
saloons and dragging him back
to the skipping-rope and the
punching-bag.
On the day of the contest,
they locked him in his bed-
room, and as an extra pre-
caution took away his clothes.
This was easy for Griffo. He
shadow-sparred himself out of
the window and down a drain-
pipe, borrowed some garments
informally, and vanished.
From a nearby saloon, word
reached Williams of an
eccentric customer whose
casual dress did not include
boots. A posse was organised,
reinforced by a fascinated cop,
and the half-sozzled truant was
held in a barber’s chair while
hot towels, and towels wrung
out in ice - water, were
alternated on his skull.
When it looked as if he had
come to, he was shaved, and
GRIFFO IN HIS PRIME
conducted out to Coney Island
to battle with the world’s
champion.
The first thing that Griffo’s
black-currant eyes spotted was
a basket in McAuliffe’s corner,
bulging with select brands of
whisky, wine and beer, in com-
pany with an ice-bucket of
aerated waters.
This festive parade was not
designed to take Griffo’s atten-
tion away from the job ; it was
purely for display. It was nose-
thumbing on McAuliffe’s part,
a cynical slap at those sections
of the press which had been
grilling him for a rumored
interest in liquor. ,
“Is all de booze for de
winner?” Griffo asked
McAuliffe hoarsely, as soon as
the referee called them
together. McAuliffe, with a
grin, nodded emphatically.
This was possibly all the spur
Griffo needed. At any rate, he
boxed with unearthly speed and
cleverness. McAuliffe, confident
in his superior weight and
punching power, and fearing
little from Griffo’s small-calibre
shots, charged like a bull from
the beginning. Unhappily for
Ihe charging bull, he was up
against the most maddening
picador in ring history. Griffo
blocked or dodged his most
earnest efforts with seeming
comfort, and kept up a con-
tinuous drumfire of punches.
The spectators were all at
sea. The champion, always
regarded as a past-master at
the game, was being made to
look worse than a novice.
Griffo would shoot home half-
a-dozen clean punches without
effective reply, provoking
McAuliffe into another
stampede just as disastrous as
the rest. This was the order
of proceedings throughout the
ten rounds. Over the final
stretch, Griffo’s exuberance
tapered off. Possibly he was
merely coasting to the finish,
counting on his fixed deposit of
points. Perhaps his shortage of
training was slowing him down.
In a night of surprises, the
referee’s decision was the
biggest surprise of all—
McAuliffe the winner! There
was a roar of incredulity and
dissent, in which even
McAuliffe’s supporters joined.
The verdict endures as one of
the most inexplicable in ring
warfare.
Referee Moore himself threw
some dim light on the problem.
Tackled by bewildered press-
men and others curious about
life’s mysteries, he confessed
that he had carried a recording
device in either hand, upon
which he had clicked off the
punches scored by the two men.
There was a chance, he
admitted, that he had somehow
got the counters mixed.
But the decision stood.
McAuliffe, who survived to the
age of 71, agreed in later years
that Moore had come up with
the wrong ansv/er. With Griffo,
who usually lost no sleep over
such matters, the verdict
remained a permanent
grievance.
McAuliffe’s next fight did
further violence to the rules.
Against Owen Zeigler, he broke
his arm in the third round and
the contest was stopped. The
leferee mysteriously gave the
result as a “draw.” After these
two freak decisions, McAuliffe
tucked his unbeaten record
under his arm and made a
permanent exit.
(To be continued next week)


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Wanted, third line of stanza of
smoke-social recitation “Over the
Hill,” the other lines of which
are:
Life is a conflict, the battle is keen,
There’s just so many shots in the old
magazine.
Then you’re over the hill, brother, over
the hill.
6645.
Copy of Banjo Paterson’s The
Animals Noah F0rg0t. —6646.
Words of popular song, dating
fiom about 1941, one verse of which
is:
She wanted to roam
So she left the old home,
Her old people’s hearts were sore.
She longed for the sights
Of the bright city lights
Where thousands had gone before.
—6647.
Information Sought
How to get rid of a plague of
fleas ?
The following is a precis of the
section on fleas in “Household
Insect Pests and Their Control,”
produced by the N.S.W. Department
ot Agriculture’s entomological
branch: Three species of fleas occur
at times in sufficient numbers to con-
stitute a plague—cat-flea, dog-flea
and human-flea. The eggs of the
human-flea are laid along skirting-
boards, between floorboards or
under carpets or linoleum; the cat-
and dog-fleas deposit their eggs in
places frequented by the animals.
'Jo control cat- and dog-fleas, first
dean the host animal, by dusting an
insect-powder such as derris or
pyrethrum into the animal’s coat.
Dogs (but not cats) may also be
heated with specially prepared
D.D.T. or B.H.C. dusts, or washed
in carbolic sheepdip. As regards
the human-flea, the first essential is
a thorough cleansing of the house
so that no small accumulations of
oust remain in which they may
breed ; regular use of the vacuum-
cleaner is advisable. One method
of control is to treat floors with a
5 p.c. B.H.C. dust at rate of lib.
per 500 sq.-ft. of floor-space; dust-
ing to be done with tin or jar with
tight-fitting perforated lid. An
alternative insecticide is 20 p.c.
D.D.T., used similarly. For further
information write N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture.
* * * *
(1) What was the subject of the
inquiry in which the Communist
Ernie Thornton appeared before the
N.S.W. Industrial Commission a
couple of years ago ? (2) Is there
any publication in which the
inquiry is reported?
(1) On Dec. 23, 1955, the Full
Bench of the N.S.W. Industrial
Commission (De Baun, McKeon and
Beattie, J J.) delivered reserved judg-
ment on a summons issued by an
application by Thornton calling on
the Federated Ironworkers’ Associa-
tion of Australia to show cause why
it should not readmit Thornton, who
claimed he was a person “not of
general bad character,” as a
member. The union opposed his
application. The summons (which
was heard in August, 1955) was
dismissed. Among the points of
objection to Thornton made by
their Honors was that the evidence
The Bulletin, December 25, 1957
showed that his views and conduct
from 1939 to 1941 were disloyal,
and as such “he would not be
regarded as a person of good
repute.” Also, there was the fact
that Thornton had left Australia in
1950 while an inquiry by the Com-
monwealth Court of Conciliation
and Arbitration into irregularities in
a union ballot was in progress,
knowing that in the proceedings
fraud was alleged against him. Their
Honors would not make any
assumption as to the good reputa-
tion of such a person. (2) The
monthly “N.S.W. Industrial
Gazette” for January, 1956, issued
by the N.S.W. Department of Labor
and Industry and Social Welfare,
contains the report.
* * * *
(1) Who wrote the musical comedy
“The Firefly” ? (2) Brief outline of
the plot, and where was it first
played? (3) Any other well-known
musical comedies by the same
composer ?
(1) Rudolf Friml, the Bavarian-
American composer. Otto Harbach
wrote the “book.” (2) It was first
produced at the Empire Theatre,
Syracuse (U.S.A.), on Oct. 14, 1912,
and at the Lyric Theatre, New York,
on Dec. 2, 1912. It has been
iepeatedly revived, and a film-
/ersion has been made of it. The
dory revolves around the adventures
H Nina, a street-singer who,
lisguised as a boy, goes as a stow-
away to Bermuda on the same boat
is a-group of society folk. Nina
i; accused of theft and of being a
notorious pickpocket. She is finally
cleared, her identity is revealed and
she wins her hero, Jack Travers, who
has been pledged to Geraldine, the
rather plain niece of Mrs. Van Dare,
a New York. society-leader. The
libretto is bright and amusing, and
the music is engaging. The songs
include “Giannina mia,” “Love is
like a firefly,” “In sapphire seas,”
“A cup of tea,” “Tommy Atkins
on a dress-parade,” “A woman’s
smile,” “We’re going to make a man
of you” and “When a maid comes
knocking on your heart” (the
finale). (3) The best-known of
Friml’s other musical comedies are
“Katinka” (1915), “Rose Marie”
(1924), “The Vagabond King”
(1925) and “The Three Musketeers”
(1928).
Brief Answers
Petra Violetta: According
to Lincoln Barnet(’s The Universe
and Dr. Einstein (1950), “Most of
the clues that have been discovered
at the inner and outer frontiers of
scientific cognition suggest a definite
time of Creation. The unvarying
rate at which uranium expends its
nuclear energies, and the absence
of any natural process leading to
its formation, indicate that all the
uranium on earth must have come
into existence at one specific time.
....So all the evidence that points
to the ultimate annihilation of the
universe points just as definitely to
an inception fixed in time.” In an
earlier chapter of the same work
Barnett has another pertinent com-
ment—“ Modern physicists who
prefer to solve their problems with-
out recourse to God (although this
seems to become more difficult all
the time) emphasise that Nature
mysteriously operates on
mathematical principles”... .8.C.:
The Angstrom unit (from the
Swedish physicist A. J. Angstrom,
1814-74) is a minute unit of length
equal to one/ten-thousandth of a
micron or one/one-hundred-
millionth of a centimetre; it is used
in expressing the length of light-
waves... .E.W.H.: (1) and (2)
The poet Henry Lawson was born
near Grenfell (N.S.W.) on June 17,
1867. (3) and (4) Died in Sydney on
Sept. 2, 1922. (5) Father was
Norwegian, mother Australian....
5.1.: (1) Japan’s Service casualties in
World War II totalled 1,174,000
killed, 1500 missing and 4,616,000
wounded. Civilian killed totalled
approximately 672,000. (2) Probably
around 100,000-200,000 in each of
the three cities. (3) Adolf Hitler
was nominally a Roman Catholic;
as were most of his principal
lieutenants G.N.: (1) According
to a statement issued in August by
the Commonwealth Statistician, the
total number of marriages dissolved
in Australia in 1956 was 6435; this
figure was lower than in any other
post-war year. (2) On the average
of recent years, about a third of the
marriages ending in divorce are
childless.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered lor publication on the
understanding that tney may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.C.: “Lost Trib'e” poem gets
bushed... .D.E.M.: He sounds
morb like an American negro than
an aboriginal... .H.W.E.: A very
long race... .R.A.: Three lines,
then:
Oh heavens, who will rescue our poor
speech
Here in Bananaland from utter ruin ?
’Tisn’t “How are you ?” ’tis always
’Ow yer doin’?”
.1.R.: Why do poets always
write of birds’ “feathered throats”?
After all, it’s obvious: they’re
seldom bald and never w0011y....
N.W.: “ ’Way Out on the Queensland
Plains” is undoubtedly far away....
E. 8.: They have a faint touch of
atmosphere... .N.S.: Your kooka-
burra is a familiar specimen....
A.S.M.: You do hoe into him, don’t
you? ... .D.A.: Still a bit inexperi-
enced and incoherent... .F.M.:
Hardly more than chopped-up prose,
but you will always find us interested
in vodka, beer and sea Dizz:
Dizztrezzing... .D.F.C.: At least its
echoes of Gray and • Wordsworth
prove that you have read some
poetry... .D.M.E.: Nature doesn’t
spread a “coverlet of green to hide
her shame.” She just grows grass
O.McM.: We’re off decayed houses
and deserted gardens, but you do
it quite well D.M.: Well, they’re
not bad A.G.: Too long, too
loose L.A.M.: William Hart-
Smith was before you E.R.: You
need to improve your technique
before you try to fly on those wild
wings John Black (U.S.A.): “My
deep understanding is that those who
were penalised in Britain and sent to


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We wiil
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You ran educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Australia in the 1800’s were the
backbone of the continent and now
its first blood and noblest lineage.
Am I wrong?” You are, brother,
you are. But here’s your sonnet all
the same:
AUSTRALIA
Here shines in Sydney’s sky of amethyst
The pure white'star of the emancipist;
The flora and the fauna of the fields
Yield no such radiant beauty as it
yields;
The snow that silvers Kosciusko’s crown
With diamonds bears no such fair
renown.
Not Cook, whose eyes for the first time
survey
The stern, stark silhouette of Botany
Bay ;
Not Tasman, Dampier, for all the loud
Accord and acclamation by the crowd ;
Not these, Australia, bear your noblest
fame ;
Hail, hail, thrice hail each hero convict
name !
On those hills where harsh memory
enthrones,
Lit with the lonely luster of their bones.
. ...J.H.W.: But why does your
space-traveller wear a wig?
Ist Instalment of
Stockmen All
By W.F.H.
[This exciting story, set on a
Queensland cattle-station, came in
handwritten in a large writing-
pad Gosh, its author knows the
country and its multicolored
lubras and loves a fight better than
Mr. Sherlock and Griifo combined,
whilst atmosphere, characters and
incidents can alike be described as
not only typical but most remark-
able.]
AT the first light of dawn when
it meets the red hush of a
rising sun when the twittering of birds
leached a cresendo the station bell
began tolling for horse tailers to
muster the riding horses for the
days work of mustering and station
work.
Young Jimmie Ellis, touched Jack
Miller and both young men left
their bunks in the rouseabouts hut
of Kooroora Station and made for
the night paddock and stable yard
to saddle their horses and muster
the 70 odd horses in the 2000 acres
right paddock.
Starting at a steady canter Jimmy
shouted, “you clean up the flat and
l will go over the sandhill” To the
shouting of, “git up you lazy cows”
the horses headed for the stockyard
and soon were ready to be caught
for the days work.
The second bell tolled for all
hands to arise, and have breakfast
of chops, steak, damper, and treacle
washed down with black tea and
brown sugar.
The men doing station work were
a mixed lot some educated others
half baked and many ignorant but
still they were a decent lot when on
the job and away from drink.
Many men were tradesmen such
as wheelwrights, blacksmiths,
piumbers, cooks, with a sprinkling of
fencers, teamsters bore drain makers,
also men who rode fences and bore
drains with shovels and pitchforks
to root out blowaway grass etc
which choked up the drains.
After breakfast all hands went to
the horse rail to get instructions from
the Overseer Mr. Lean for the
days work ahead.
Jimmy, and his mate had started
working together and being mates
were never seperated and when Mr.
Lean said, you two muster the
Bullock paddock and take your
cattle to Mr. Wood at the big
stockyard in the Brumby paddock”
“Righto boss can we take our boys
Emu, Possum, Bootlace, and stock-
whip” “Yeh, they are your boys otf
you go”!
The stockmen who moved otf to
muster the 20,000 acre bullock
paddock were all dressed alike and
looked picturesque with their elastic
sided boots concertina leggings
white moleskin tight fitting trousers
red, or white shirts with large spotted
hankerchiefs around their necks
some wearing felt hats and others
cabbage tree hats all dressed as
men did during 1840 and when you
saw those black boys with broad
noses and twisting moustaches you
saw something.
Young Jackie, had tried to master
a lassoo but being no great exponent
of the art he split his losses by
carrying the rope on his saddle.
When a few miles on their journey a
sudden shower of rain pulled them
up and as they watched small birds
hastily gobbling up bright fish which
had fallen with the rain, natures way
of replenishing the rivers and creeks
of the inland.
While awaiting the cessation of
rain a funny thing happened Emu’s
red shirt started to lose its dye and
a stream of red splashes were show-
ing on his white moleskin and when
Possum saw it, he laughed fit to kill
himself and pointing at Emu, said,
“Emu gotem piles bad or has he
cutem throat” Emu, becoming
disgusted looked askanse at his
mates and hastily tearing the offend-
ing shirt from his back said, dis
blurry shirt cheap one from
hawker, me no wantem, nex one
be like Jackie silk one” and looking
hard at Possum he roared “you
Possum, have too much blurry
cheek” and in a sulky mood he
moved on and in a few minutes
Possum asked Jackie for the loan of
his lassoo to play a joke on Emu,
tying the lassoo firmly to the
pommel of his saddle he whirled the
rope and landed it around Emu’s
body and the startled horse helped
Possum to land Emu in a heap, then
the fun began, getting to his feet
Emu shouted. You lousey son of a
goanna get orf yer blurry orse and
fightem”! Possum dismounted and
a gory fight started both boys belt-
ing the hide off the other until Boot-
lace, and Stockwhip intervened and
after a gory rub down of faces
the stockmen moved off two men
feeling bitter and sore. Before long
they came to a gate and a creek
and after watering their horses they
decided to line out, and muster from
there, Jackie saying to Possum, “you
go to the right with Bootlace I will
be next and Emu can be on the
left flank keep well apart and pick
up everything and belt it towards the
big stockyard.” “Righto!” said,
Possum and thev were on the move
and ' before long everyone had a
mob of his own and amid yeyhoo!
and barking dogs the cattle were
heading the way they wanted to go
which was the Stockmans direction
for the yards. Among the cattle
were many young bulls who had
oodged the previous musters and
being as they were they became stub-
born lowering their heads and try-
ing to reach the dense scrub, dogs
and flaying stockwhips drew blood
a 1 the stubborn brutes charged
everything they could and when
knocked up they wanted to lay down
but the boys were merciless and
before long a few more boys joined
them one boss boy Wombat, saying,
where you lazy cow bin all day! ”
Stockwhip, answered, not like you
lazy cow sleepum under wilgatree
all day an when we wakem you up
you get wild you go an talkum
alonga lubra Mary and amid much
laughter the boys yabber yabbered
to their hearts content. Having
helped the boys they soon had the
mob in the outside stockyard often
used for cutting out purposes Wom-
bat and his boys then took the boys
quartpots and before long all were
having dinner the biackboys gobbling
their tucker and were soon playing
euchre and horse shoe quoits and
judging by the yells and yabber
yabber the game was exciting. The
two white boys stayed with the
jackeroo’s and listened to their small
talk of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane
and social blah blah. When the
lunch was over the branding irons
were at hot point and the earmark-
ing and branding emasculating went
ort and the bellows of cows and
calves showed they were having a
bad time as the hot iron seared
their tender flesh when firmly held
by grinning black boys; about four
in the afternoon Jimmie, and his
boys headed for home and when
near th? Esk Creek they ran into
a few cows, calves, and half grown
bulls and after a conference they
decided to do some emasculating,
earmarking, and in fair time they
had the job done and with bosoms
filled with pride they went to
Station headquarters and reported
to Mr. Lean who said, “the muster
proves there are many cows hiding
their calves in the scrub I think 1
will send all hands to muster that
paddock and judging some of their
calves I think there are a few piker
bulls about you know what they
are!?” the boys looked perplexed
and the overseer explained a piker
could be an inbred or, something
before Captain Cook as they were
lean and famous for their long
broad horns and mangy appearance
and blackfellow lore had said, they
were always there like brumby and
kangaroo and when you go muster-
ing tomorrow take two 44 rifles with
bullets from the store and if you see
one kill it. Oh! biackboys have
reported seeing brumby tracks if
you see any shoot them as they may
intice some of the station mares
to go bush.”
Jimmie then said, “if we built a
large stockyard near the scrub and
run sapling wings into the scrub we
may be able to clean muster that
scrub belt and get all pikers and
biumbies also many cattle” Mr.
Lean thought for a while and
replied, “a good idea I will send
some boys to do the job and then
have a clean up, it will be cheaper
than ringbarking and on second
thoughts I will send for some light
axes for you to chop tracks into
the scrub and do some ringbarking
and after that the boys moved to
the hut to await the bell for dinner
and when it was over they went to
the jackeroos barracks to see Tom
Harrison who gave them lessons in
the Queens English and how to con-
duct themselves when in decent
company both boys being city bred
and had left for station life at the
tender age of fourteen and after
working on stations for five years
they were trying to catch up on
education so essential to them when
the going was hard and opportunity
came once, so they grasped it with
both hands.
Concertina, and Accordian were
playing Irish tunes in the mens hut
and some of the men were whirling
around doing reels in their clumsy
way and judging the clapping that
followed you would think the
Worlds Championship was being
decided in that hut. Later on a
weak tenor voice was heard singing
By Kilarneys Lakes And Dells,
Gosh! the hoorays and claps were
worthy of Caruso at his best. Then
the gramaphone started playing and
silence reigned supreme some songs
lively some sad, and when the
concert was over some wiped tears
from their faces such was life in
lonely places where men had to
suffer to earn a few pounds yearly
to give to a shanty keeper who alike
a spider knew where to await the
thirsty bush worker.
Jackie, had to go behind the huts
to see Tyson his blue cattle dog
who was on the sick list having been
tossed by an infuriated cow he was
sick and sore. As he turned the
corner of the huts a low whinny
attracted his attention and he looked
into the bald face of old Warrigal
the best cutting out horse ever born
now pensioned off from work. Tak-
ing the old horses head in his two
hands Jackie, kissed thte old boy
cn his mouth and with his face
close to Warrigals he said, hello, old
boy, feeling lonely? I bet you would
like to do a day in the camp huh!”
Old Warrigal was happy someone
was fondling him a tribute he was
used to, show him a bullock and he
would shoulder him out of a mob
and do that all day long. Another
morning came and after the boys
bad taken the sting from horses who
showed their objection to work by a
demonstration of bucking and pig
rooting. The 44 rifles were given to
the mates by the storekeeper and
when Emu, and Possum saw the
tifles Gosh! there was excitement!
“What you bin do alonga rifle
Jackie”! ’ “They are to shoot
Piker bulls Emu me carry rifle
Jackie,”! “All right Emu” : Possum
doing the same with Jimmies rifle and
off they went to muster the scrub.
Besides the rifles they had light axes
to chop branches which were over
tracks used by cattle who ducked
under them when coming out chop-
ping their way into the haunts of
those crafty cattle along tracks
where the branches were capable of
dragging a rider from the saddle
was no mean task and judging the
animal droppings their muster would
be large.
(To be continued next week)


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
KHRUSHCHEV
"VTIKITA KHRUSHCHEV’S
-*-* struggle for power as out-
lined by Myron Rush (from his
forthcoming book, The Rise of
Khrushchev) in the U.S. publi-
cation “Problems of Com-
munism” :
“Whatever the ultimate out-
come of the power-struggle
which Stalin’s heirs have been
waging behind the outward
fapade of ‘collective leadership,’
there is little question that
Khrushchev’s spectacular vic-
tory at the June Plenum of the
C.P.S.U. Central Committee
elevated him to a position of
individual authority clearly
surpassing anything so far seen
in post-Stalin Russia. Indeed,
many competent observers see
a close similarity, in degree of
personal power, between
Khrushchev’s position today
and Stalin’s around 1930 after
the former dictator had success-
fully emasculated the ‘collec-
tive leadership’ established upon
the death of Lenin.
“General Secretary”
“But while the more mani-
fest signs of Khrushchev’s grow-
ing power have been duly noted
outside the Soviet Union, little
attention has been paid to a
body of evidence bearing upon
what this writer considers a par-
ticularly significant aspect of
the Kremlin power-struggle. It
relates, specifically, to Khrush-
chev’s gradual advance toward
inheritance, if not deliberate
conquest, of the autocratic
authority which had come to be
symbolised, in Stalin’s lifetime,
by the post of ‘general secretary
of the Central Committee.’ The
evidences cited may appear
elusive and insubstantial ; they
cannot, however, be overlooked
in a system where a significant
change in a leader’s real power
may be signalled by a seemingly
inconsequential alteration of his
publicly used title rather than
by any modification of his
statutory authority.
“To preface this line of
inquiry, it is necessary to recall
the place of the general
secretaryship in the history of
the C.P.S.U. and its over-
shadowing importance in the
Stalin succession crisis. No one
but Stalin ever held this title
after its creation in 1922. By
using this office for his personal
advantage, he was able to pack
the Central Committee with his
supporters, undermine the
collective leadership, and
acquire dictatorial power within
seyeral years after Lenin’s
death.
Stalin
“By the 1930’s the title had
become the symbol of Stalin’s
hegemony in the party. Subse-
quently, during the heyday of
Stalinist terror, the title was
little used to designate the
source of his authority, but
after the purges had removed
the chief witnesses of his
appointment to the- secretary-
ship, it became the subject of a
new myth. Stalin’s official bio-
graphy, written for his sixtieth
birthday (1939), claimed that
it was Lenin who had nomi-
nated him for the post, the
obvious implication being that
as general secretary he became
the sole legitimate heir to
Lenin’s authority.
“Thus, when Stalin died in
March, 1953, who, if anyone,
would succeed to this symbolic
title became the all-important
question in Soviet politics. If
the oligarchy which had formed
at the onset of Stalin’s fatal
illness was not to be superseded
by a new dictatorship, its
members had to forestall the
possibility that one of them,
by virtue of being accorded
Stalin’s title and dominating
power in the Central Com-
mittee, could claim to be his
legitimate successor and then
use his controlling position to
subvert the oligarchy and re-
establish a personal dictator-
ship.
“A clue to the extreme con-
cern of the oligarchy over this
central problem was furnished
immediately by the official
obituaries for the dead dictator.
Were these to recall Stalin’s
incumbency of the post of
general secretary of the Central
Committee, they necessarily
would pose the question of who
would succeed to this high
office. The oligarchs sought,
therefore, to -evade the issue by
silence. In all the torrent of
eulogies reviewing Stalin’s
political career, nowhere was
mention made of a fact that was
stressed by his biographies
hitherto —his post as general
secretary.
“The sweeping changes in
both Government and party
effected in the weeks immedi-
ately following Stalin’s death
further testified to this concern.
Initially it appeared that
Malenkov, in addition to assum-
ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL ”
ing the premiership, would also
remain as ranking secretary Of
the Central Committee. How-
ever, when this body met
briefiy ten days after Stalin s
death, Malenkov relinquished
the latter post, and Khrushchev
led a new list of five
secretaries, none of whom was
g.ven any distinguishing title.
“First Secretary”
“When the Central Com-
mittee next met in July, 1953, to
hear Malenkov report, for the
C.C. Presidium, on the purge of
Beria, Khrushchev still
remained an ordinary secretary,
Only in September, 1953, was
he upgraded above the other
members of the secretariat by
being elected ‘first secretary of
the Central Committee of the
C.P.S.U.,’ a title which had
never before been used. It was
apparently designed to suggest
that his authority corresponded
to that of ‘first secretaries’ in
the local party committees,
though the device was clumsy,
since the C.P.S.U. Central
Committee —unlike the local
party bodies —had, and still has,
no ‘second secretary.’ Khrush-
chev was still far from inherit-
ing Stalin’s authority as general
secretary, but at least he had
advanced one step toward that
goal.
“As ‘first secretary’ Khrush-
chev consolidated his party
position until he was able to
play a key role in engineering
Malenkov’s downfall. Not long
thereafter there were signifi-
cant indications that his ambi-
tions were growing. In March,
1955, an article on Khrushchev
in the Encyclopedic Dictionary
referred to him as ‘one of the
closest comrades-in-arms of
Stalin’ (emphasis supplied)
while other Presidium members
were described merely as
Stalin's ‘comrades-in-arms.’ In
April the party published a
book called Lenin, com-
memorating the latter’s birth-
day Significantly, the writings
of L enin, Stalin and Khrush-
chev were quoted on the last
pages. It is doubtful, to say
] eas t ; whether these two
seemingly minor items
appeared purely by acci '* ent '
“The same may be said about
another cunous development
that took P lace a month later.
Until that time Soviet news-
papers had referred to Khrush-
chev as first secretary of the
Central Committee. In May,
1955, however, they began to
capitalise the initial letter of
his title, calling him First
secretary. This practice was
later adopted by the Central


<s
<
a
O
The badge of the World
Council of Churches repre-
sents the ark of God, afloat
on the sea of the world, with
the cross in the midst. The
word OIKOUMENE is Greek
and means “The inhabited
universe.”
AUSTRALIA’S
CHRISTMAS
If You Care, Share
BOWL OF REMEMBRANCE
There is an unglamoarised service
going on year in and year out in all
corners of the world of which little
is heard.
Yet it checks bitterness and
disowns discouragement in the very
worst areas of human suffering in
the world —the homeless expellees,
the refugee, the racially segregated,
the political pawns of fate. It has
oft-times been the solvent of inter-
national tensions.
It is the Inter Church Aid of the
World Council of Churches that
restocks farms and reclaims land
in Greece, that restores limbs to
amputees in Korea, that provides
roof top schools in Hong Kong, that
builds community centres after
floods in Holland, that sends
medicines into Eastern Europe, that
reunites in Australia families from
across the Iron Curtain, that follows
the displaced Arab to the cave in
Jordan, and that prepares a White
Paper for every meeting of the
Assembly and Security Council and
instruments of the United Nations.
Australia's Asian neighbourhood
cries out to high heaven with needs
becoming increasingly articulate
daily. Australia cannot afford to
consider her high standard of living
today without giving a thought to
the changed world in which she will
find herself in 20, nay 10 years time.
Australia cannot afford not to be
generous while 1,000 million do not
know what a square meal is like.
Never a week passes but a new
emergency occurs somewhere. Some,
such as the Hungarian upheaval or
Middle East tensions, make head-
lutes and others, such as the tornado
destruction of a Mission station in
Basutoland or an increasing number
of 1946 Japanese atomic bomb
casualties suddenly collapsing, never
hit the headlines.
Behind the news are the human
tragedies. They don't escape
Christian concern. In European
and Asian countries today will be
found National Christian Councils
who report tragedy to the head-
quarters of the World Council of
Churches in Geneva. The Division
for Inter Church Aid and Service
to Refugees places the reports before
ar Annual Consultation of Church
leaders from all parts of the world,
and its findings are sent by the
Administrative Committee to
Churches in areas of resources,
including the Commission in
Australia.
In this pooling of resources to
meet tragic needs in any part of the
world, some 165 member churches
of the World Council of Churches
in 50 countries are implementing
the 1948 Amsterdam pledge—“We
intend to stay together.”
The administration of these relief
projects is always by the leaders of
ihe local churches, indigenous to the
area—not by Governments or out-
siders. Thus, Inter Church Aid
goes beyond only physical relief —
it is the Action of the Gospel which
matches the Message of the Gospel
of Love.
Since the end of the war a con-
servative estimate puts the help
channelled through Inter Church
Aid at £l3O millions. Australia has
contributed £200,000. The sum of
£45,000 from Australia in 1957
provided food, clothing, medical and
other services, in emergency situa-
tions: resettlement, since 1952, of
13,000 refugees in Australia from
Europe, and self-help projects and
vocational training for the rehabilita-
tion of those who remain in Europe
and Asia.
We need £50,000 this year
because of the new and increased
areas of concern resulting from the
formation in March of the East Asia
Christian Conference in which we
have membership. A total of 27
Asian churches invited their
European brethren of Australia and
New Zealand to be one with them
in the Asian orbit.
The £50,000 will, therefore, go
mostly to practically every Asian
country from Korea to Pakistan,
in addition to the Middle East,
Africa and Europe including West
Germany, which will receive more
than 1.000 fresh refugees every day
of 1958 from the East, and Greece,
where 50 per cent, of the population
is poor and needy.
It will help in the maintenance of
some 20 elderly while Russian
refugees from China who will be
cared for in a new Russian Orthodox
home to be built near Sydney.
HOW CAN YOU HELP?
(J) The World Council of Churches asks that you place an Empty
Bowl of Remembrance on your Christmas dinner table, and every
diner to put in it at least the value of their meal. Using the
envelope, you can place it in the offering of your Church on
Christmas Day or other services or send directly to the State
Secretary for Inter Church Aid in your capital city, or head office
at:- — 37 Swanston St., Melbourne.
(2) This is one gr, a at hour of sharing.
( 3) Tins Christmas.
The Secretary for this work ot
Inter Church Aid in Australians the
Rev. Frank F. Byatt who has
recently visited South East Asia,
Palestine and the European refugee
camps. He has an arresting fund
of information as a result and
referred to it briefly on Sunday,
22nd Dec. over the National net
work of the A.B.C. His head-
ciuarters are in Melbourne.
Committee itself, when it re-
elected Khrushchev after the
Twentieth Congress in
February, 1956. By this trivial
yet highly symbolic device,
Khrushchev acquired a unique
secretarial title, which distin-
pushed hun from the numerous
echpl fleS °iv °
echelons ot the party hierarchy.
ttr . • • , .. ; . „ ,
It is interesting to note that
in the interim period Khrush-
chev made an attempt to reach
even higher—namely, to capture
the very title of ‘general
secretary,’ which had become
taboo for the Soviet press since
' Stalin’s death. A New Zealand
official who had enjoyed
Khrushchev’s hospitality sent
him a letter of thanks in which,
instead of addressing Khrush-
chev as ‘First Secretary,’ he
chose to call him ‘General
Secretary.’ The error, which
inadvertently touched upon a
dangerously sensitive area of
Soviet politics, was not rele-
gated to the files where such
letters usually end up ; instead,
it was published on the front
page of virtually every central
and important provincial
newspaper in the U.S.S.R., and
was broadcast by Radio
Moscow,
Khrushchev v. the Rest
“Khrushchev’s ambitions to
build up his secretaria l post
were resisted, of course, as the
..
entire checkered history ot the
,• , ,
T" 'nr ? 8 ,
s l ro " S y ,mpl ft 0£ ! n , tereSt
context of this article is one
indirect proof of the effort on
the P art of the Presidium
members to limit the secretary's
power and to maintain the
supremacy of the Presidium
over the Secretariat. It
appeared in “Pravda,” of
April 20, 1955, and consisted
of the recollections by a former
Politburo candidate, G. I.
Petrovsky, who had been
exiled by Stalin and resurrected
by the new leadership in its
attempt to obtain the
‘voluntary’ support of the
surviving ‘Old Bolsheviks.’ In
his article, Petrovsky reminded
his readers of Lenin’s insistence
that ‘the Secretary 1 is subor-
dinate to the Politburo, whose
members are all ‘equal.’
“The opponents’ efforts,
however, proved to be futile.
Not only was Khrushchev able
to staff his Secretariat—and
even, to some extent, the Pre-
sidium—with his own partisans,
but he also succeeded in having
the Central Committee form-
alise his position as head of the
Secretariat.
“Thus, before the Twentieth
Congress, ad members of the
Secretariat were listed in order
of rank. Yet at the Congress,
the newly-elected Secretariat
was presented with Khrushchev
occupying the first place on the
list, the other secretaries follow-
ing in alphabetical order. This
innovation, which became
standard practice, has not yet
been followed by the custom
(as it had been in regard to
Stalin) of listing Khrushchev at
the head of the Presidium, with
the other members following
in alphabetical order. True,
shortly before the Twentieth
Congress of the C.P.S.U. the
Congress of the Kazakh oarty
elected to its ‘honorary’
Presidium ‘members of the
Presidium of the Central
Committee of the C.P.S.U.
headed by the first secretary of
the Central Committee,
C.P.S.U., Comrade N. S.
Khrushchev.’ And shortly after
the Congress a biography of
Khrushchev asserted that he
‘headed the Ukrainian party
organisation’ after its Central
Committee elected him first
secretary in 1938—thus imply-
ing, by analogy, that Khrush-
chev now ‘headed’ the Com-
munist Party of the Soviet
Union as the First Secretary
of its Central Committee,
“Nonetheless these assertions,
however significant, remained
isolated cases, indicating that
Khrushchev’s position at the
time of the Twentieth Congress
was still not strong enough for
his final and most emphatic
claim to authority,
“What about the most recent
developments, however? We
know, of course, that Khrush-
chev was hard at work to assert


his power in the months pre-
ceding the June Plenum. Dis-
cussion of the ‘theses of
Khrushchev’s report’ on re-
organisation of the Soviet
economy daily filled the
columns of Soviet newspapers
with Khrushchev’s name.
Scarcely more than a week after
the theses were published
Khrushchev received an unusual
award for his ‘outstanding
services’ in connection with the
virgin lands programme, then
three years old (April 8). His
telegrams to local leaders
commending them for their fine
work began to appear on the
newspapers’ front pages. He
received Western journalists
for long interviews, answered
their questions without defer-
ring to the opinions of his
colleagues, and published these
interviews in the press. This
assertive trend culminated in
the ouster of his most formid-
able opponents, and in the
creation of a new Presidium,
largely staffed by Khrushchev’s
supporters.
“Y e t will Khrushchev’s
victory be fully consummated?
Will it be symbolised by a title
placing him at the head of the
party? The near future may
provide the answers to these
perplexing questions—answers
that will affect the fate of
Russia and the world at large.”
Indonesia
Typical British ajid U.S.
press-comment on the actions
of Indonesia’s Soekarno
regime:
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Indonesia is beset by almost
every evil, political and
economic, that can plague a
State. Some stem from the
colonial past, when Dutch rule
created and maintained a unity
that was neither ethnically nor
geographically natural. Other
troubles can be ascribed to the
incompetence of the clamorous
nationalists, totally unready to
administer the independence
which the Dutch were hustled
into granting after the war. If
the Indonesians were suffering
only from growing-pains they
could expect sympathy. But the
evils they are now bringing
upon themselves by their
onslaught against Dutch
individuals and commercial
interests are deliberately self-
inflicted. They are the result
neither of misfortune nor of
mismanagement, but of con-
torted xenophobia.”
The same: “Conditions in
Indonesia are already desperate.
The wrangling politicians in
Java are losing what tenuous
hold they ever had on a domain
of 3000 islands, whose extre-
mities are almost as far apart as
Ireland is from Turkey.
Centralised administration is at
odds with decentralised military
commands, which defy the
palsied Government. Inflation
dissipates what corruption does
not squander. President
Soekarno’s ‘guided democracy’
is headed straight for Com-
munism.
“Developments in Indonesia
are of vital concern to the rest
of the world—and most directly
to the British Commonwealth,
and to the United States as a
member of Seato. Indonesia’s
imperialism, which seeks to add
in New Guinea another terri-
tory to that misgoverned
archipelago, may at present be
a clamor chiefly designed to dis-
tract attention from domestic
crises. But covetous gestures
have already been made
towards Singapore and Borneo
as well. Australia shows
realistic appreciation of the
danger by standing firmly with
the Dutch over the New
Guinea issue, and concerting
with them the joint develop-
ment of the island.”
* * *
“Manchester Guar di a n”:
“Indonesia, rich in resources
as it is, is unable at present to
earn a favorable balance of
payments (all the more so since
the wealthier islands have
acquired the habit of trading
on their own account); without
Dutch efficiency and capital the
economy will be leakier still.
But the importance of the
Dutch to Indonesian wellbeing
will seem an additional reason
why they should be dispos-
sessed. Economic prudence
has never yet quenched
nationalist ardor (and lest we
in the West should think that
this is an immature Asian
characteristic that we have out-
grown we should recall Algeria
and Suez). Countries can
stagger on for a long time
getting poorer and poorer, and
nowadays nationalists can
always hope that Russian aid
will make their path smoother.”
* * *
Edinburg h “Scotsman”:
“Even if Indonesia had a better
juridical claim to Dutch New
Guinea than she has, it would
seem absurd that she should
claim to take on more responsi-
bility before she has proved
—London “Evening Standard”
“HE’S GOT TO HAVE A GOOD REST FOR THE SAKE OF HIS HEART. WHY DON’T YOU
ALL TAKE ONE FOR THE SAKE OF OURS?”
capable of efficient administra-
tion of her existing territory.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“The Indonesians are furious
with Holland for refusing to
hand over the neighboring
territory of Dutch New Guinea.
So they are taking it out on
Dutch folk who have lived in
Indonesia all their lives and
who stayed on after this former
Dutch colony became indepen-
dent.
“It is a wicked business —
and Britain must accept a share
of the blame. If Britain had
properly supported the Dutch
after the war Indonesia would
still enjoy their prosperous rule.
Instead the Dutch were edged
out under the auspices of
U.N.O ”
* * *
“New York Times’’: “The
presentation of this whole case
as one of ‘colonialism’ versus
‘anti - colonialism’ has been
spurious from the outset. The
inhabitants of West New
Guinea are being ruled by an
alien Power, the Dutch. If
there were a transfer of
sovereignty, they would con-
tinue to be ruled by an alien
Power, the Indonesians. There
is nothing on the record to
indicate that the second
‘colonialism’ would be more
benign than the first.”
* *
London “Economist”: “If
the Dutch, as is to be expected,
refuse to hand over New
Guinea, and President Soekarno
persists in what he is doing,
the Indonesians will suffer far
more than the Dutch. They
could not, as the Dutch do now,
make the Dutch estates yield
28 per cent, of Indonesia’s total
exports ; they would lose a great
deal of technical assistance and
financial credit; and they would
risk losing a market which
takes 19 per cent, of their
exports. The President is com-
ing close to deliberately beggar-
ing his country.”
Missiles
A caution from U.S. “Wall
Street Journal” on the “possi-
bility that military missiles
development might be allowed
to run away with the [U.S.]
defence programme”:
“It is not only that we will
need conventional arms for
some time to come ; we should
also remember that missiles are
unlikely to prove the last word
in weapons for all time. Impor-
tant as their perfection is, it
should not distract scientific


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire •••• £2/13/6 Foreign •••• £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
and military minds from bold
attention to other devices as
yet, perhaps, little more than
dreamed of.
“Gadgetry is something to
beware of in foreign policy as
well. Very likely we are
depending too much on it as it
is—thinking, for instance, to
strengthen our cause with
indiscriminate foreign aid and
voluminous propaganda.”
To which the “Christian
Science Monitor” adds;
“One [U.S.] Army estimate
is that it would cost about
$6OOO million dollars to develop
a ‘killer’ weapon against the
ICBM by 1961. Presumably
the larger parts of this amount
would not be required in the
earlier experimental stages.
Whether to complete it could
perhaps depend on initial
results.
“Even the possibility of
developing a means of explod-
ing a hostile ICBM above the
atmosphere seems vastly attrac-
tive. It is more attractive than
to continue reliance indefinitely
on the theory that the only way
to prevent catastrophic destruc-
tion is to deal out catastrophic
destruction.
“If it should prove possible to
detonate hydrogen warheads in
space before they near their
targets, the immense cost of
producing thermonuclear
ICBM’s will be a very effective
deterrent to their use.”
Atomic Aircraft
Noting that both Russia and
the U.S. have been working on
the development of atomic-'
powered aircraft for some time,
the scientific correspondent of
London “Financial Times ’
presents some rather notable
figures:
“The 1957 expenditure on the
project by the U.S. Air Force
has been estimated at $237
million, while the U.S. Atomic
Energy Commission will spend
$88.5 million. This latter expen-
diture represents an increase of
$38.9 million over research
and development spending on
nuclear engines for aircraft
during 1956.
“The sums spent on Russian
development work must be
comparable, if not greater.
Both Russia and the U.S. have
flown four-engined bombers
carrying small nuclear-reactor
furnaces. This was done to
test how the reactors behave
under the somewhat unusual
operating conditions experi-
enced during flight. These
reactor furnaces were not con-
cerned, however, in the actual
production of power to propel
the aircraft in which they were
being carried.”
After discussing the signifi-
cance of atomic power for inter-
planetary travel, rockets and
aircraft, the “Financial Times”
writer points out that one of its
most conspicuous attractions is
that it “offers the possibility of
producing an immense release
of power spread over a long
period of time from a
remarkably small weight of
fuel”:
“In the Tupolev [Soviet]
design, for example, this plane
would be capable of flying
from Moscow to Vladivostock
at 500 m.p.h., using only 70 to
75 grams (less than four ounces)
of uranium fuel. By compari-
son, a TU.104 two-jet transport
would burn up 150,000 kilo-
grams (about 150 tons) of jet-
fuel on the same trip.”
Japan
London “Economist” com-
ment on Japanese Prime
Minister Kishi’s goodwill tour:
“Much as he may value the
warmth of human friendship,
he certainly hopes that his tour
will eventually produce more
solid results”:
“The Japanese are well aware
that they need long-term
markets in. South-east Asia very
badly indeed. This arises partly
out of their fear of a general
slump, and partly out of
China’s trading policy. The
Chinese have recently proved
to be serious rivals in the selling
of cheap consumer-goods and
textiles to South-east Asia;
Japanese trade with China has
been disappointing in spite of
the hopes aroused by the
relaxation of the embargo ;
and negotiations for the estab-
lishment of a Chinese trade-
mission in Japan broke down
recently because China insisted
that the envoys should have
quasi-diplomatic status. The
Japanese, therefore, have not
much chance of expanding their
markets in .China in the near
future, and unless they move
quickly they may find the
Chinese edging them out of
South-east Asia, too.
“Having failed to persuade
the United States that the
development of new markets
for Japan w , as a worthy use
for dollars, Mr. Kishi now
hopes to make do with home-
produced yen, supplied to
individual countries under
bilateral agreements, and not,
as had been originally pro-
posed, paid into a common
fund.
“Where, exactly, the yen are
coming from, and what sort
of agreements he is thinking of,
have not been made clear.
“Before Mr. Kishi’s pipe-
dream can materialise, there is
some hard preliminary work to
be done, including the payment
of reparations to Indonesia and
Vietnam. (Indonesia is ask-
ing for about $BOO million ; the
claims of Vietnam have not
even been discussed.)
“Mr. Kishi’s round of visits
may be a good beginning, but
more visits and additional
supplies of charm must follow
before the South-east Asian
countries can be sold on the
peaceful co-prosperity which
they certainly need.”
Little Rock
New York “Herald Tribune”
comment on the end of an
incident:
“The screaming eagles of the
101st Airborne have now all left
Little Rock. The reason:
‘Mission accomplished.’
“It may seem strange to later
generations that grown men
with bayonets had to be sent
into a civilised American city
in order for nine innocent
children to be allowed to go
to school —but it happened.
“The weeks since have
proven that the children of
Little Rock are perfectly happy
to have these colored children
among them. They play
together on the playing fields
with mutual enjoyment. It is a
sad commentary on the results
of 1957 years of Christianity
that the children are more
Christian in this respect than
many of their parents.
“If one generation could be
brought up in this country cut
off from the hatreds communi-
cated by their parents, prejudice
itself would disappear in
America.”
Various Voices
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“This country has got to earn
its own living by the sweat of its
brow and the skill and ingenuity
of its brains. Unless we can
master inflation we will be
gravely handicapped in that
task. There is no International
Assistance Board to come to
the rescue of a nation which
finds life too much for it and
falls on hard times.”
Cyril Osborne (Conservative
M.P.): “We need not fear
Communism will ever conquer
the world by arms alone. It
can win only if it proves to be
a better way of life.”
Lord Hail-sham: “Let no one
be so foolish as to suppose with
Mr. Aneu r i n Bevan that
Communism had lost its
dynamism and was no longer
interested in world revolution
On the contrary, under Khrush-
chev, Communism has never
been more dynamic, never
more determined on world
revolution, never mvjre
ingenious or successful in its
techniques, and.... never more
ruthless and wicked in suppres-
sing its victim.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Monotonous
A melody repeated time and
time again wearies to the point
of madness, and the unrelenting
stream of criticism poured on
the younger generation must
have the same effect on them ;
and also on any older person
sufficiently intelligent to be con-
scious of his own failings.
For what have we
created for them? A
world in imminent
danger of scientifically
efficient destruction,
peopled by a genera-
tion whose concept of
paradise consists of a
splendid lazy materi-
alism obtained with the
least regard for the just
claims of others. In
our lustily discontented
demands for higher
wages for less work,
anjd our sulkily selfish
strikes whenever out-
rageous demands are
refused, we have set a
pattern which a few of
our young people have
copied.
Fortunately it is only a few.
In this time of pious resolutions
we should sincerely decide to
encourage those virtues we have
so often ignored ourselves
rather than repeat the hypo-
critical criticisms of our young
people until we extinguish
even their resilient aspirations.
—MacD. (Vic.).
A Quintet of Wesleys
With the exception of
“Adeste Fideles,” probably the
most popular Christmas hymn
(and 1 don’t mean carol ) is
“Hark the herald angels sing!”
usually sung to a tune
borrowed from Mendelssohn.
Its words are by Charles
Wesley, the 250th anniversary
of whose birth is being cele-
brated this month by
Methodists throughout the
world. Younger brother of the
famous John, Charles wrote
more than 6000 hymns, many
ol which are sung in churches
of all denominations.
Even in those days when
exclusive Church of England
members could still speak of a
nonconformist as “A dissenter,
you know, but otherwise not
a bad sort of fellow,” some of
Charles Wesley’s hymns were
already printed in the Ancient
and Modern collection at the
back of the Book of Common
Prayer. His “Christ the Lord
is risen today” is an institution
as the processional hymn for
Easter Day, while “Jesu, Lover
of my soul” is a universal
favorite. Charles Wesley ranks
among the leading hymnwriters
of all time.
It’s not often that five
members of the same family
have a legitimate claim to fame,
yet such is the case in the
Wesley clan. Apart from
Charles and the illustrious John
“ Don't panic—I only Want to pawn it!"
(and we’re inclined to forget
that in addition to his preaching
and general religious work, the
latter was author of more than
a lew learned tomes which were
best-sellers and brought in
thousands of pounds to be
devoted to his many charities),
there were three other Wesleys
whose musical attainments
were sufficiently important for
their biographies to appear in
every dictionary of music
worthy of note.
There’s Charles, for one, son
of the hymnwriter and organist
of St. George’s, Hanover
Square (still one of London’s
smartest churches), who was
appointed organist-in-ordinary
to George IV and who was
responsible for six concertos
for organ or harpsichord,
anthems, hymns and songs. His
brother and pupil, Samuel,
became the outstanding English
organist of his day and was the
first to make known the works
of Johann Sebastian Bach in
Britain.
Samuel Wesley published
innumerable compositions,
which included four sym-
phonies, three overtures, 11
organ concertos, church
services, fugues, motets,
sonatas, sonatinas, variations,
waltzes, glees, hymns, songs
and what have you? His son,
Samuel Sebastian, was also a
distinguished organist and com-
poser: he was organist at no
fewer than four English
cathedrals —Hereford, Exeter,
Winchester, Gloucester. Like
his father, Samuel Sebastian
produced a good crop of
anthems, organ pieces and
vocal music.
Curiously, none of these
musical descendants of hymn-
writer Charles Wesley was
associated with Methodism.
They were essentially Anglican
musicians, though, to be sure,
Samuel Wesley (who towers
above his brother and son), was
for some years a Roman
Catholic and put together
several masses.
But what a gifted quintet
these Wesleys were in their
varied fields: John, the
revivalist preacher and author
(he even compiled an English
dictionary), Char 1 e s, the
inspired hymnwriter, Charles
(the second), Samuel and
Samuel Sebastian, distinguished
English composers and
organists.— Maitri (N.S.W.).
North Queensland Capital
I’m voting for Cooldown as
capital of our possible new
State, in spite of “P.M.’s” (B.
27/11/ ’57) argument against
it. Admittedly, there are great
areas of producing country to
the south, but the point “P.M.”
overlooks is that south of
Cooktown we are doing all
right—we already have towns,
roads, ports and air-services.
To the north we have land,
and plenty of it, that will
grow practically anything.
There is water to irrigate it
and there are people willing
and eager to work it, provided
they can get to it and out of
it, and provided there is a
market, or adequate transport,
for their produce. Until these
are provided the far north will
remain undeveloped. But place
the capital there and a new
wharf (a minor matter, after
all) will be built ; there will be
a coast road as well as an
inland highway, a daily plane-
service, and more if necessary.
Probably there will even be a
railway in time. None of these
things would be achieved at
once, but at least it would be a
start —Canberra came from
scratch, too.
It would be hard to beat
Cooktown’s natural beauty, and
the climate is no worse than
that of Cairns, and cool com-
pared with Townsville. The
Endeavour River will water
thousands of acres of now
idle land, and mills, factories
and, canneries will follow in
the wake 'of production. As
far as I can see, the far north
never will be developed unless
some such courageous move is
made.
Anyway, from a historical
viewpoint, and one of pure
sentimentality, Cooktown is
the natural spot. — Yellow
Fire (Q.).
Russian Railway History
Soviet history books are not
allowed to praise or record
distinguished inventors if they
are foreigners. Among names
banned are those of James
Watt, inventor of the recipro-
cating steam-engine, and of the ,
Coventry family of the
Starley’s, inventors of the
tricycle and of' the safety
bicycle.
Because of this policy,
nothing will be heard in Russia
this year at the anniversary of
the Soviet railway-system of


OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland's
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“ JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x 3f ins.,
and 9 ins. x
Q!
of x
4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En -
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
Jackson &
O’Sullivan ptj.Ltd.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <C Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
the Englishmen who, in
November, 1837, established
the first public railway in
Russia, the St. Petersburg to
Tsarskoye-Selo railway.
Chief of the installation was
young John Hackworth
(accompanied by a foreman),
and the suppliers of the first
and other locomotives were
Timothy Hackworth (father
of John) and __ Stephenson.
Although those names are
taboo in Russia, another
English word, derived from this
railway, has survived, and is
commonplace in Russia today.
This is the word “vauxhall,”
adopted in Russia as their
word for railway-station.
Traffic on Russia’s first rail-
way was very small, the palace
staff of the Tsar’s summer
palace at Tsarskoye-Selo being
virtually the only passengers.
Someone, said to be Pushkin,
suggested establishing an
amusement garden-park at the.
terminus, similar to the cele-
brated Vauxhall Gardens in
London, which Pushkin had
visited. No sooner said than
done, the station being within
the gardens. The “Vauxhall”
gardens proved very popular,
and crowds from St. Petersburg
soon said merely “Vauxhall”
when asking for tickets on
the railway, and “vauxhall”
became synonymous with the
word “railway-station.”
Lord Frederic Hamilton,
author of The Vanished Pomps
of Yesterday, found, while in
St. Petersburg in the ’eighties of
last century, that the use of
the word “vauxhall” for
“railway-station” was almost
universal in Russia. A few
years ago the “London Rail-
way Gazette” published
facsimiles of letters sent
through post-offices situated on
Russian railway-stations. In
each case the postmark showed
the word “vauxhall,” or its
abbreviation “voks,” showing
it had been posted from a
“vauxhall” or “railway-
sta t i o n.” —G. Beesley
(N.S.W.).
Vets.
Country vets. (B. 6/11 /’57)
are more likely to survive now
than at any other time.
Contract work from the
State departments, such as
tuberculin-testing and inocu-
lating calves with Strain 19,
have given them the assurance
of at least one feed a day.
The replacement of the horse
by the tractor hit them hard.
There was always good money
to be picked up rasping horses’
teeth and treating foot ail-
ments —during the depression
a vet. could earn up to £3 a
day among horses, particularly
in the wheatgrowing areas.
Apart from the lack of “know-
how,” the. equipment was too
costly for the average farmer
to worry about. -
One reason why the vet. is
in such demand today is that
most modern drugs are not
available to the layman. In
the past the farmer could get
“I feel he has something to say."
most of the dope he wanted
from the local chemist. But
many of the so-called miracle
drugs are. restricted to quali-
fied men, and if the animal is
valuable you can’t afford to
ignore the vet., because he is
the only one who can get the
necessary drugs to do the job.
The increased value of stock
has made the vet. what he
should be—a respected member
of the community. Even if he
doesn’t make a fortune, he
makes enough to live comfort-
ably, and the country folk help
out with various items such as
vegetables and fruit in season.
If the vet. can’t make the grade
these days he wants to look to
his “bedside manner.”
Cocky (Q.).
y '»>•
Back to Reading
Since Britain’s “Picture Post”
passed out “picture-papers” in
general seem to have seen the
signs, and are giving their
public more letterpress and less
photography..
One (“Pix”), printed in
Sydney, has even started to
publish short stories in every
issue.
When picture-publications
first became popular, 15 or 20
years ago, subscribers were
content with pin-ups and
Hollywood candids ; now they
expect something more to keep
mind and eye entertained, and
the all-picture prints must meet
their demands or perish.—
O. W. W. (N.Z.).
The Hawkesbury
The Hawkesbury River
(N.S.W.) is a pleasant place for
a holiday. Launches of all sizes
can be hired fully equipped and
with a large map showing the
whole area. That’s useful for
those who have some know-
ledge of the waters, but for
inter-State and other visitors it
is not enough.
I suggest that the trustees of
Kuringai Chase, or whatever
body is involved, place
appropriate signs at the
entrance to the various coves,
bays, inlets, etc., to guide the
amateur navigator.
In our case we wasted a lot of
time poking into what looked
like promising openings, only
to find they were cul-de-sacs.
Going up Berowra Water to
Crosslands Ferry there are
many traps for young players,
but not a sign of any sort; in
Pittwater, while Coasters’
Refuge and the Basin are
shown as excellent anchorages,
it is not easy to pick them out
at first shot. The same goes
lor some of the bays and
inlets off Cowan Creek.
Next time I visit the Hawkes-
bury I hope to see some signs,
such as differently colored
triangles, squares and circles
suitably placed and just large
enough to be picked out with
field-glasses.— Ceg (Vic.).
“United Givers”
According to a prominent
Melbourne businessman back
from the United States, people
in that country, in their charity
donations, show a strong
preference for what is known
as the United Givers’ Fund.
This type of fund has evolved
from the “community-chest,”
which operates on a very
limited scale in Australia; in
some American cities the term
“community-chest” is still
used, although the scope of
collection and distribution of
funds has been widened. Some


months ago a Melbourne
organisation was formed to
consider the adoption of the
American plan, which sounds,
in many respects, an excellent
one -
At present many charitable
organisations appeal for
patronage on an individual and
highly competitive basis. With
each organisation maintaining
its own fund and organisers
and collectors, and issuing
circulars, descriptive pamphlets
and other publicity material,
considerable duplication oi
effort and expenditure is
inevitable.
In practice, too, most appeals
are directed at a limited
section of the community,
principally business firms and
individuals known to be
charitably inclined —or, at least,
whose names appear more-or-
less regularly in subscription-
lists.
There are difficulties, of
course, in regard to the
establishment of a central
fund. Many organisations will
feel that their share of a con-
solidated fund may be far less
than they could obtain by
individual effort. Some
organisations will probably be
reluctant to join in appeals on a
community basis. And those
individuals who give their
service generously to aid a
particular cause in which they
have maintained close interest
for many years may not feel so
disposed to give their time and
effort for united giving.
On the other hand the
benefits should be appreciable.
Appeals may then be spaced
more wisely throughout the
year and expenditure and
organising reduced to a
minimum ; more important, it
should be possible for a central
authority to widen its appeal,
to make approaches to sections
G f the public, which, though
cap able of subscribing to
charitable funds, have been
largely overlooked in the
present tendency to concentrate
on the relatively few “regulars.”
— Ardoyne (Vic.),
->
.
U.S. Lag in Science
True, the Russians may have
made quite a few unsuccessful
(and unpublicised) attempts to
launch a sputnik before their
success on October 4 (B.
18 /12/’57), but the fact
remains that, even if they had a
thousand failures, they are still
sufficiently in front to have two
sputniks circling the globe, the
second one weighing half-a-ton,
while the Yanks are still
fiddling around on the ground
with a 31b. model,
A recent American survey
admitted that the U.S. was
behind Russia in half-a-dozen
important scientific fields ; Dr.
Edward Teller, “father” of the
hydrogen-bomb, said America
had “lost a battle more
important and greater than
Pearl Harbor” in lagging
behind ; and, as further
acknowledgment of Russia’s
lead, a Senate preparedness
sub-committee recently sat to
determine, if possible, why the
Soviet Union was in front in
outer-space development. But
in all this inquiry and discus-
sion I saw no reference to the
man I think was primarily
responsible for this American
lag the late unlamented
Senator McCarthy.
Through his machinations
the U.S. has deprived itself of
such men as the atom-physicist
J. Robert Oppenheimer, who
has been denied access to U.S.
atomic secrets since 1954 as a
questionable security-risk, and
yet whose worst “crime” seems
to have been to have favored
the Republican Government in
the Spanish civil war. Other
scientists have been dismissed
from their posts, jailed or
driven to suicide by
McCarthyist investigation
most of them, admittedly, have
had “dangerous thoughts” but
few, if any, have been active
Communists.
On the other hand it seems
that the Russian scientist, even
when he possesses similar
“dangerous thoughts,” has been
allowed to work unhindered, if
his work is useful to the State ;
and to that extent he has been
more free than his American
opposite. (I’m not speaking of
the Russian people in general.)
American scientists them-
selves realised the harm that
persecution would do. Early
in 1956, testifying before a U.S.
House of Representatives
information sub - committee,
several prominent scientists,
including the president of the
National Academy of Sciences
(Dr. Bronk) and a Roman
Catholic university physicist,
Professor Henderson, said that
U.S. security practices, derived
from Senator McCarthy, were a
“threat to national survival.”
How right they were.
While agreeing that secrecy
on strictly military matters was
necessary, the testifying
scientists unanimously con-
demned secrecy on the basic
facts of science and technology,
which, by stifling research,
‘"hurt the U.S. more than it
hindered the enemy.” Another
most relevant point made was
that many scientists steered
clear of research that might
“put them afoul of security.”
I have no doubt that the
U.S., and the West in general,
can and will overhaul Russia
in the fields in which they lag,
but scientists and research-
workers will have to be given a
real freedom in their work and
activities. — Zorok (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 466
Across
I—Edis,1 —Edis, a most unbalanced football team, is behind. (8)
8 — Menzies’ opponents are certainly not taking shape. (7)
9 They help to preserve the fiyniture fieldsman going to a
fielding position. (4-6) -
10 —Greeting from the underworld circle. (5)
12 — The woman’s wager in the steamer refreshments for
Persians. (8)
13 — You have to cross it to get South-East Asia. (3)
14 — Go by the mate of the mother ship. (4)
16- —Taxing a former craft of the theatre. (8)
17—Put in an appearance at lOd. (6)
19—Earnestly asks for base metal in
the correspondent's footnote. (6)
23—Musician who delivers sacks
through tubes. (8)
26 — Hose is affected by other foot-
wear. (4)
27 Exist with the article about a
two-dimensional measure in
France. (3)
28— Bespangled horse in South
Dakota. (8)
29 Part of the process of healing
strike-breakers. (5)
32 —Correspondence from Harlem
tries extortion. (10)
33 — Winters with a poet. (7)
34 — The most palatable apple isle
shortened a railway sleeper b'y the
way. (8)
Down
1— Foundation relative with a degree.
(5)
2 The councillor and I cry like cat
birds during busy times for* the
police. (5, 5)
3 What is Falstaff’s favorite drink
but a musical instrument. (7)
4 Dedicating or cancelling one’s
ballot card? (8)
5 The Spanish can be seen here
when it’s sun-up. (3)
6 Bird's nose account. (4)
7 Unable to sail an oval girl like
a circle, Agnes being the girl. (7)
8 — Cook a playwright. (3)
10— Warm up a race division. (4)
11— Curiously, it is a set place for the
sunrise. (4)
13 —It’s a matter of course to a health
resort. (3)
15—Peter’s nine, but very confused
by the snaky lake in Hyde Park.
(10)
16 —Wrathless empire has noise with-
out no stress. (9) '
18—Anvil ace could become oranae.
(8)
20 — Laughter interrupting a seaman
king of Israel. (4)
21— Diana. (4)
22 — A bishop- works in this spot. (3)
24 — Fruit ran into a perpendicular
marker. (7)
25 — Horseback journeys for King-
Emperor Desmond. (5)
30— Top monkey kiss. (4)
31— Become a fugitive insect. (3>
32 — Mount Chifley. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 465


with a low brain-power that
you find one or two of on
every plantation. He works
mechanically, just well enough
to escape scolding. When he
finishes he eats, when he's
eaten he sleeps. Presumably the
routine life of a plantation,
no necessity for initiative and
the supply of good things
always assured, is a Godsend
to his sort. 1 keep overlooking
his existence.
“The small one was a-
babyish smooth-skinned pretty
youngster who has only recently
arrived on his first excursion
out of the interior. His most
noticeable characteristic is a
constant dropped-mouth of
awe, especially about the
environs of the master’s
bungalow.
“I accepted their laplaps and
before they were out of sight
up the hill had sat down and
stitched them.”
“Up the hill? To spear
fish?”
“That’s right,” I explained.
“You know. This estate
sprawls across a promontory
with jagged sharp rocks
encrusting the point. The
shorter, more comfortable
route up the coast is over the
backbone of the plantation,
which brings you down on to
the long succession of sandy
beaches that loop away to the
north.”
“Then there’d be a fair traffic
of bare feet passing within
cooee of this house of a week-
end?”
“My word.”
T CONTINUED.
“By the time the palm-
fronds of the hill had hidden
them, the lunch in my tummy
was dragging my eyelids down,
so I retired to the bedroom. I
was peeling off my shirt and
shoes when the dogs erupted
into a frenzy of barking, and
some person coughed outside.
I padded belligerently around
to the doorway, to find Ray-
mond, my boss-boy, standing at
the bottom step. You know
Raymond—ugly as a gargoyle,
with a rasping, never-resting
laugh and a hundred - volt
personality that knocks you
down from twenty-feet. He
proffered the inevitable laplap
with a chuckle. The other hand
held a tomahawk and a
capacious basket.
“ ‘l’m off to gather oysters
from the mangrove roots now,
Master,’ he informed me.
“ ‘Ah,’ I said, in a half-
conscious torpor, adding auto-
matically, ‘Bring some back for
me.’
“ ‘All right, Master,’ he
giggled.
“I returned, closed the
bedroom-door to shut out the
dogs, so that their flea-foraging
activities couldn’t disturb me,
tottered to the bed, dropped his
laplap on the floor, crashed
on to the mattress and as good
as died.
“When fuzzily, through
prised lashes, I digested that the
clock dial indicated three, I
“On your retirement from this department we present
you with the clock which you've Watched constantly
for forty years."
swam my way put of a whirl-
pool and sat up.
“I pulled on my shirt and
shoes, flicked my hair into neat-
ness with a comb, placed the
three sewn-up laplaps on a
chair on the veranda so that
their owners could retrieve
them if they returned while
I was away, and headed down
the track.
“Outside the trade-store door
th« usual Sunday-afternoon
circus was gathered, squatting
about in the shade with the
folds of their brilliant laplaps
tucked so to be not revealing,
and the yellow soles of choco-
late feet upturned. As usual
every mouth was masticating
buoi, and crimson splats decor-
ated the dust.
“At my appearance teeth
filmed with bloody dye grinned,
and excited yelps and jocular
remarks broke out as they
dusted themselves to their feet.
I patted my pockets to find
that in my drugged awakening
I had left the keys on my
dressing-table. Kumarti was
present, so I sent him scuttling
up the hill to fetch them.
“The side-window of the
store looks up the road, and
any movement of dark figure
or colored laplap within its
frame would not fail to draw
my glance, no matter how
pressing the customers. So I
noticed them when Bow-legs
and the new youngster
sauntered down the road,
returning minus the ex-Jap-
collaborator but carrying their
sewn-up laplaps over their arms
in addition to their pronged
spears and a string each of
petty fish.
“When the last exaspera-
tingly procrastinating customer
had at length purchased his
final stick of tobacco, I shep-
herded out all the loquacious
onlookers, scooped the takings
into a linen bag, damped fast
the door padlock, and set off
up the hill.
“As I mounted the second
rise and the bungalow came
into view 1 saw Raymond with
his basket and tomahawk
striding down from the high
slope. When he reached the
road turn-off to my house he
hesitated as though wondering
if I would be at home. Then
his glance caught my bobbing
hat and he turned and seated
himself on a roadside mound
to wait. Afar up among the
high palms I could see the
figure of the ex-calaboose
fellow, Dango, returning.
“ ‘Ah! ’ I greeted the boss-
boy. ‘You caught plenty of
oysters for me, Raymond?’
“ ‘Not so, Master. I caught
only a few.’
“He opened the mouth of the
basket to my inspection and l
peered disappointedly at the
mere dozen bark-like chunks
in the bottom.
“ ‘Enough for me only,’ he
giggled.
“ ‘I thought you were waiting
to present some to me,’ I
growled indignantly.
“ ‘Not so, Mas t e r,’ he
chortled. T have exhausted
my tobacco so I’m waiting for
this other boy to catch me up
so that I can cadge a smoke
from him.’
“1 grunted and, readjusting
my expectations to buliy-beef
curry for supper, stalked up
the side-road to the house.
“When Dango arrived, Ray-
mond accosted him and through
my windows I saw the tall
silent boy transfer a cigarette
from behind his ear to Ray-
mond’s mouth. Then he
wheeled in my direction.
“Clutching the linen bag, I
went towards my bedroom to
lock up the trade-store takings.
By the time I heard his foot-
scuffles outside I was peering
under the bed in bewilderment
for the absent cash-box. I
called out abstractedly that the
remaining laplap on the
veranda-chair was his. For a
moment his feet on the boards
shook the house. Then with
a thank-you he skipped down
the steps again.
“Locked in bemusement I
began to search the room
thoroughly for the box. After a
quarter-of-an-hour of frantic
ransacking I collapsed info a
chair, sure that the cash had
been stolen.”
{Continued on page 56)


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CHEESE
By R. A. PRICE
A RACE of pioneers still
hard at work on our
frontiers played a most import-
ant part in the early history of
nearly all our dairying districts.
The family name is Strepto-
coccus lactis, the lactic-acid
bacteria found in milk as soon
as it is drawn from the cow.
They are the chief workers
in the making of cheese and of
milk-cultures, and they help
a lot with the making of
butter.
Ever since milk was, cheese
was. Any milk left standing
long enough will, by the
activity of the lactic-acid
bacteria, go sour and curdle.
Gradually the curds shrink.
They give off water into the
whey, and finally they become
a firm mass of milk-solids —
which is cheese.
The cheesemaker may assist
and control the curdling by
heating the milk and by adding
a pure culture—a starter—of
the strain of bacteria he prefers.
Whilst excellent for
combating lice and
keds and as protec-
tion against blowfly
strike dieldrin and
aldrin sheep dips do
not destroy itch mite.
Pest-control experts
are therefore advising
a return to arsenical
dips in addition to
dieldrin or aldrin
dips until a suitable
all-purpose dip is
introduced. The most
progressive graziers
also recommend
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
and tailing lambs.
The Elastrator
method cuts down
losses arising from
shock and loss of con-
dition due to set-back
and disease.
He may set the curd in moulds,
perhaps add cream, perhaps
squeeze out more moisture
under mechanical pressure, in
order to make one or other of
the simple cottage-cheeses so
much a part of country life
all over the world.
If he adds rennet —a diges-
tive ferment extracted from
the lining of a young calf’s
stomach —he gets a quicker
coagulation, a harder and
longer-keeping cheese, and one
which is “pre-digested” as it
matures, making the milk-
solids more soluble and digest-
ible. These types are the
cheeses suitable for distant
marketing and for months of
storage.
There is a further process in
which the curds are allowed
to settle after the whey is run
off. They grow together for
a while —a process called
“cheddaring”—and then the
lumps are cut up again for
salting, hooping and pressing.
This makes Cheddar cheese,
with a characteristic flavor and
texture, and well suited to
factory production, distant
marketing and storage.
Originating as a local variety
in England, its manufacture
reached a high commercial
development in Canada and
the U.S.A. about 1850. When
cheese-factory information and
equipment was wanted in Aus-
tralia it was freely available
from those countries, and the
Cheddar process was the onfe
adopted for most Australian
cheesemaking.
What we call fancy cheeses
often use other strains of acid-
bacteria, and also various
types of moulds.
There are, too, many types
of “processed” cheese, in
which either Cheddar or a
fancy cheese is watered, mixed,
ground, salted, pasteurised,
homogenised and generally
denatured and standardised.
It is then done up in little
sterile packets to suit the
requirements of modern
merchandising practices.
IN the early days of settle-
■*- ment in Australia it was only
natural that almost the first
activity on any stock-farm
should be cheesemaking, which
yielded a highly nutritious and
not too perishable foodstuff
for home use and storage and
for convenient marketing.
Along the South Coast of
N. S. Wales cattle were taken
to graze in the clearings left
behind by timber-cutters.
By 1820 the farmers of this
area were specialising in the
Cheese-factory, Coalstounlakes (Q.), 1928.
production of butter and
cheese, which was carried by
packhorses and sailing-vessels
to the Sydney markets
This cheese and butter was
all made on the farms, neces-
sarily under primitive condi-
tions. Instructions for cheese-
making suggested the use of
an ordinary wash-tub if a
proper cheese-vat were not
available.
Rennet could be prepared
on the farm. A cask of brine
was first made, “strong enough
to float a fresh hen-egg,” and
in it were soaked the rennets
of 40 young, strong and healthy
calves—rennet from thin or
diseased calves was not recom-
mended!
In spite of such difficulties,
the trade flourished, and the
products were welcomed on
the Sydney market ; but it is
not surprising that colonial
cheese brought only 6d. a
pound compared with 2s. 3d.
for imported cheese.
During the ’thirties, ’forties
and fifties of last century small
quantities of butter and cheese
were exported to the diggings
in California, and soon after
this factories began to be set-up
for organised central cheese-
making.
Many of these were co-
operative—in fact, the simple
cheese-factory has been the
ideal first step in co-operation
in most of the new dairying
districts in Australia. The
essentials were few and were
not very expensive: a simple
building with a curing-room
insulated with sawdust or
charcoal, but not refrigerated ;
a small steam-boiler fired with
wood from the all-too-handy
bush ; a vat or two made of
tinned steel set in a wooden
jacket to contain the heating
steam ; a lever- or spring-press ;
enough hoops to contain the
cheese : a curd-mill ; knives,
wooden stirring-rakes, plat-
form-scales and apparatus for
testing butterfat and acidity.
, T • • . , •
No engine-power is needed m
a sma " ,ac,or y-
A dozen farmers could afford
to own and operate such a
factory, and many such groups
enjoyed for a long time a
notable and profitable
independence. Modern
merchandising and advertising,
however, made the advantages
of larger organisations only
too obvious. To gain these
advantages in marketing and
management the little groups
of farmers joined together to
form larger groups and built
big central factories, or they
sold out and the little factories
were closed down, or else they
fought the big groups and were
eventually forced out by com*
petition.
There was also the compeli .
, ion with the butter-factories.
when a butter-factory opened
j n a district, and the return
was as good as or better than
that for cheese, there was a
strong temptation for the
cheese-suppliers to switch to
butter. When supplying cream
t o a butter-factory there was
more food for pigs and there
was freedom from the daily
run to the cheese-factory with


large weights of milk to be
lifted about.
There were many hard words
and many lively meetings over
the “dingoes” who deserted
their cheese co-operative for a
small gain in profit, leaving
their mates with lower produc-
tion of cheese and, conse-
quently, higher operating costs
per pound. There were always*
some men who would want to
switch to butter on the slightest
rise and would then want to
come back to cheese again as
soon as it went ahead.
Prices for butterfat have
risen from under a shilling to
around four shillings, and the
contest is still going on, but,
though total milk produced
and total butter made have
increased considerably, total
cheese-manufacture has gone
back.
On the north coast of New
South Wales, though cedar-
logging opened up the scrub
country, it was a slump in the
sugar-industry which gave
dairying a boost, as an alterna-
tive to sugar-growing.
Towards the end of last
century* when the fitting of
ships with refrigeration made
it possible to export dairy-
products in large quantities,
dairying opened up all over
the continent. But in the early
days it was well ahead of the
timber-getters. Untold numbers
of good timber-trees were
slashed and burned to make
way for grass. This was
especially true of North
Queensland, where thousands
of acres of fine furniture-
timber went up in smoke.
Lately the tall stumps left
behind have been well worth
taking out to be made into
figured veneer for cabinet-
making.
A S lately as 30 years ago
cheese-factories on the
Atherton Tableland were very
much in the pioneer stage. The
packhorses which had brought
much of the furniture and
house-fittings up over the
ranges were no longer neces-
sary to carry the cheese away
to market, but they were still
being used to bring milk in to
the cheese-factory.
AH a man had to do to get
into the dairying business was
to select a block, take his axe
and saw and fell the scrub,
burn it and plant Ihe grass—
generally Rhodes-grass. Then,
with simple hand-tools he made
a hut, bails and yards and
fenced his clearing, using
timber from the scrub. As
soon as the grass grew he
bought cows and began to sell
milk to a factory.
If his tracks were difficult
he simply hung his cans of
milk on a packhorse or two.
At the factory where I
worked the steam-plant had
once powered a milking-
machine and had sawn all the
timber for the buildings round
about. Even the pig-pens were
made of siky-oak or maple,
We cut maple into boards for
cheese-crates and fired the
01 ' er , ™ th furniture-woods-
hongh they were rather hard
o cut with the axe.
Streptococcus lactis was very
lively in that climate, as also
were his strong rivals, the gas-
forming bacteria, and the taints
and flavors picked up by the
milk from the scrub-plants
and weeds. We didn t use
starter the acid was quite high
enough as soon as the milk
arrived at the factory—and
prodigious efforts had to be
made to get the cheese through
its various stages before the
development of acid got too
far ahead.
Heating was speeded - up,
stirring was more vigorous,
curd was even stirred after the
whey had been run-off in order
to get rid of the moisture and
slow-up the formation of more
acid than was needed. It had
Cheese-factory, Robertson (N.S.W.), 1957.
to be a hard cheese to stand
up to storage on shopkeepers’
shelves in the tropics.
There were satisfactions as
well as disappointments. There
was satisfaction in the pros-
perity of a small, happy com-
munity and there was pride in
the production, now and then,
of a really fine cheese.
One day a mouldy-looking
parcel came in from a whole-
sale customer. We feared a
complaint, but it turned out
to be an object of interest in
the shape of a large cheese
which had lain on the whole-
saler’s shelf, overlooked, for
nine months. Cautious investi-
gation revealed that it had
qualities usually met with only
in a cheesemaker’s dream.
Eaten with a small spoon, it
melted in the mouth with a
deliciously mellow but sharp,
nutty flavor,
The news _ perh the
aroma itself __ soon spread
around the farms, until every-
one found some reason to visjt
the cheese-factory. Even the
manager's wife, who hated
cheese except as. a source of
income, or as a main item in
the diet of farm- and factory-
hands, came to visit us twice in
the first hour. Then she moved
in to stay for the day, bringing
her own spoon. '
TIJOR Streptococcus lactis and
his human offsiders the
pioneering age is by no means
finished. There may not be
any quite new enemies to
conquer, but old hazards which
were once brushed off as
“gas,” or “feed,” or “slow
batch,” or “bad starter,” have
now been investigated and
sorted out.
The C.5.1.R.0. has done
some smart work in determin-
ing that many cheesemaker’s
troubles are due to bacterio-
phages other organisms
which weaken or destroy the
lactic-acid bacteria in the
starter. Formerly a cheese-
maker would begin a new
starter from the same strain of
powdered culture as the old
one, or he would get a bottle
of starter from a nearby
factory. Nowadays he keeps
on hand a variety of strains
of bacteria, switching from one
to the other so often that the
’phage hasn’t time to become
lethal to any one of them.
Pasteurisation is used in
many of the larger factories,
but there is still a great deal of
raw cheese made. Heating to
165 degrees kills-off nearly all
the organisms in the milk, and
the cheesemaker then adds
more starter than for raw
cheese and waits longer for
the milk to ripen. The only
organisms then present are the
desired strains of lactic-acid
bacteria. Some flavors
(desirable and otherwise) are
lost by pasteurisation, but
uniformity and keeping-quality
are improved.
Mr. Booth, present manager
at the Robertson Cheese
Factory, finds just as much
interest and challenge in his
problems as the early pioneers
did in their problems of wash-
tubs and calves’ stomachs.
The larger problems of
marketing and economics
press just as urgently on his
parent company, the Dairy
Farmers’ Co-operative, and on
all other dairy organisations.
How to get a profitable overall
return from a market suffering
from low export-prices is
always the jackpot question.
The demand for cheap food
battles constantly against the
need to keep a dairy-industry
alive and prosperous; milk-
production is stimulated by
good prices so that there will
be a margin to fall back on in
bad seasons, but in good
seasons there is a big surplus
to be dealt with.
At Robertson they find that
cheese is more profitable than
butter as an outlet for surplus
milk. Farmers are paid full
price for their normal quota
of city milk, even though all
their milk may be diverted to
the cheese-factory. Other
farmers closer to Moss Vale
have all their milk taken to the
city but get full price only for
their quota. A great deal of
carting is avoided, and more
money is received for every-
body’s surplus.
npHERE is a great need for
•*- more planning, preferably
by the farmers themselves, to
deal with such problems as
uneven production, export-
marketing, competition with
margarine and other substi-
tutes, lowering of costs, and
the improvement of products.
Cheese is bound to figure in
further pioneering adventures,
just as important and pre-
carious as any it has faced
hitherto. Its durability and
its high food-value make it
very suitable for export to
countries whose standards we
would like to improve in order
to make them less attractive to
Communism.
In order to make this
possible, economically, we


KUCHING'S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
' Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KJTCHING
PTY. LTD. •
319 George Street
SYDNEY
have to reduce our costs of
production. Apart from a
constant plugging away at
improvements in stock, in
machines and in details of
management, we must keep
seeking new and revolutionary
ways of cutting costs. Scientists
are trying drastic short-cuts in
the manufacture of both
cheese and butter, but we
could do with a large, highly
organised attempt at producing
standard cheese for export at
a very low cost.
Something like a large block
of new farms, set up from
scratch as cheese-farms. Big
machines to clear and to plant
pastures before any fencing is
done. Highly mechanised
dairies at the optimum size for
efficient working. A co-opera-
tive system of fodder-conserva-
tion, buying of stores, and the
like. Irrigation. Artificial
breeding. Production-testing.
Holding of milk under
refrigeration on the farm, to
be hauled to the central factory
in bulk trucks. This would
permit of the factory running
continuously, bringing in the
milk as required, and making
full and constant use of its
plant. Cheese-vats might be
freed for a new batch by lifting
the curd on to other apparatus
soon after the whey is run off.
Such an experiment would
require much capital and great
enthusiasm in those attempting
it, but from a national point of
view it should be worth the
effort.
New Rice
“Cotchin”: It is claimed that
Calrose, the new Californian
variety of rice which made its
Australian debut recently, not
only gives good yields, but also
has certain advantages in the
kitchen.
Grown successfully at Yanco
(N.S.W.) Experiment Farm
and by several farmers, it
outyielded the current favorite
variety, Caloro, and exhibited
considerable resistance to sun-
cracking—a big factor in reduc-
ing losses from broken grain.
Slightly longer and more
vitreous in the grain than the
older varieties, Calrose should
prove particularly suitable for
fried-rice dishes. It could also
be a winner in canned-rice
packs.
Saline Stock-waters
“Geep”: A recent review by
C.5.1.R.0. vet. Dr. A. W.
Pierce on the subject of accep-
table stock - waters has
unearthed very few contradic-
tory or additional figures to
those generally accepted for
many years past in this country.
The recommendations o f
various authorities concerning
the maximum concentrations of
salts which can be tolerated by
stock vary from State to State.
Figures for maximum con-
centrations acceptable to sheep,
for example, vary from 1.9
per cent, total salts in N.S.W.
down to 1.0 per cent, quoted
by a South Australian authority.
Dr. Pierce has collected
together, and added to from
his own observations, a com-
prehensive list of the clinical
and biochemical effects highly
saline waters have on sheep,
cattle and pigs.
The most noticeable effect,
he says, is loss of appetite, and
it seems most likely that the
reported reduced increase in
weight, and diminution in milk-
flow, is due more to this self-
imposed starvation than to any
particular metabolic effect of
the salts.
Diarrhoea following ingestion
of saline waters is a common
symptom, often accompanied,
as shown by post - mortem
examination, by severe
inflammation of the alimentary
canal.
A number of competent
observers have attributed
degeneration of the central
nervous-system to the same
cause. The symptoms here
include inco-ordination of gait,
muscular spasms, champing of
the jaws, convulsions, weak
pulse, paralysis of the hind-
quarters or even general
paralysis.
Intense thirst, followed by
increased intake of water, and
so of harmful salts, is noted
particularly in the case of
sheep. To the layman, this is
a not unexpected symptom: a
drunk, slaking his thirst on
more alcohol, could appreciate
the sheep’s problem. But
fortunately, in both cases, some
relief is obtained from the fact
that increased urination helps
control to some extent the con-
centration in the body of the
toxic substances.
Other symptoms, less widely
reported, include profuse sali-
vation, vomiting, raised
temperature, nephritis, anaemia
and abortion. Strangely
enough, it is not generally
accepted that highly-mineral-
ised waters have much to do
with formation of urinary
calculi in animals.
Best Weedkiller
“Tintin’’:, Chemical weedi-
cides and some beneficial
insects, such as cactoblastis and
the ladybirds, have done a great
job in controlling weeds in
Australia, but a good pasture
is easily the best way of keep-
ing weeds under control.
One of the best examples is
the way in which lucerne is
beating skeleton-weed in the
Riverina. A good perennial
pasture completes the eradi-
cating of St. John's wort
after weedicides and ladybirds
have started the job.
The Waite Agricultural
Research Institute, near
Adelaide, reports success with
phalaris-tuberosa and sub.-
clover against Patterson’s
Curse (Salvation Jane). A
thick sward makes it harder
and harder for seeds of weeds
such as saffron-thistle to
germinate and grow.
In addition, pastures which
improve soil-fertility make the
ground too rich for some weeds
which thrive on paddocks
which have been overcropped.
There is an excellent example
of this at a U.S.A. experiment
farm, where, although weeds
are thick on plots which have
been under maize for many
years, they cannot grow on
nearby soil which has been
sown to legumes and managed
well.
Even when exterminated by
chemicals or insects, weeds
eventually have to be replaced
by pasture, so why not do it all
in the one job?
Late Lambs
“Nypo”: Lambs dropped in
mid-June in South Australia’s
more-than-18in. annual rainfall
zone are not only more
numerous, but also grow much
faster than their older brothers
and sisters, according to the
State's senior animal-husbandry
adviser, D. B. Muirhead.
One extra lamb in five could
add many thousands of lambs
to the year’s total. Faster
growth would follow the
reduced nutritional stress on the
ewe during late pregnancy, and
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(12/12/’57)
Reasonably g'ood rains are indicated on the Queensland
coast, tablelands, central highlands, Darling Downs and
Maranoa during January, although these rains, in the main,
will probably be below normal. Rainfall probably poor in
the west and far south-west of Queensland, but heavy
falls should occur on the far north c'oast and peninsula.
The coast and tablelands of N.S.W. likely to have
moderate rains below average during January, with rainfall
poor elsewhere in the State. The Riverina and western areas
should get dry conditions during the first five months,
although general rains should commence in June.
Apart from moderate rains below normal in the central
division, Gippsland, and west coast, rainfall likely to be poor
in Victoria during January. Then a further period of poor
rainfall, with general rains in May.
The central division of South Australia should get
light average rains in January, but rainfall will probably
be poor elsewhere. All told, 1958 will probably be a dry
year in pastoral areas, although good rains should commence
in the agricultural areas during May.
Heavy rains likely in the West Kimberley s of Western
Australia during January, with good rain in the north-west,
Gascoyne and south-west areas. The south-east coast
confined to poor rainfall.
LENNOX WALKER.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
peak spring growth should
finish the lamb for market.
Muirhead says that in an
adverse season such as this,
when March-April lambs could
be very short of feed, Merino-
breeders in the cereal-growing
areas would be well advised to
delay lambing until the end of
May.
February matings in north-
east Victoria also tend to be
more prolific than earlier
joinings, but the lambs are well
behind their elders in growth.
Helping Dairymen
“Milko”: The developments
in the dairy industry men-
tio n e d by “P.H.R.” (B.
27/11 /’57) are being put into
practical effect in Queensland,
not only by Government
departments but by the industry
itself. A notable example is
Nestles (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., at
Gympie.
The company formed a farm-
machinery pool at the Gympie
factory to help farmers who
could not afford the price of
modern equipment. The hilly
nature of the country made the
use of expensive equipment
necessary.
By advocating the use of
modern equipment and
improved pastures, the com-
pany has encouraged farmers
to lay-down large areas of
irrigated pastures. So far over
700 acres of improved pastures
are under irrigation and more
are on the way. There is no
doubt about these irrigated
pastures. Apart from increasing
the milk-yields, they remove
the fear of drought that is the
bugbear of every Queensland
dairyfarmer.
A free advisory service is
available to all suppliers. When
a farmer wants help, Nestle’s
agricultural officer goes out to
the farm and looks it over.
The whole place is surveyed so
that the work will fit in with the
overall economy of the farm.
Soil-tests are made, and seed
and fertilisers are recom-
mended. Once the plan of
work is agreed upon by the
farmer, the machinery goes out
to the farm. The work is done
under the watchful eye of the
company’s expert. Most of the
equipment is loaned free of
charge, but a small hire is
made for some of the heavier
machinery.
Like all machinery-pools,
there comes a time when the
equipment is wanted on more
than one farm at the same time.
To avoid any loss of time, the
equipment is made as mobile
as possible so that it can be
moved from farm to farm with-
out loss of time. The operator
is even supplied with a motor-
bike, so that he can get to and
from the farm without wasting
time.
The machinery available so
far includes tractors, tandem-
disks, chisel - ploughs, disk -
ploughs, sodseeder, rotary -
slasher, forage - harvester,
pasture - harrows, fertiliser -
spreader and a seed-drill. Hay-
baling machinery is on the way.
A milking-machine service is
set-up for the use of the
supplier, and the latest machine-
testing gadgets are used. A
mobile workshop is also part of
“D'you reckon the drought drove ’im in ?”
the service. This goes from
farm to farm, doing those
repair jobs that cost time and
money and bump-up costs.
Nestle's scheme is paying-off.
Milk-cheques are bigger, and
the cows better fed. The
irrigated pastures are a natural
insurance against drought.
This is the sort of thing that
really helps the farmer. It
doesn’t help much when he is
constantly barraged with sage
advice to “reduce costs.”
Some costs are out of reach
of anything the farmer may do.
There isn’t much he can do
about the costs of petrol or
the rates and taxes he has to
pay. But doing the job better
and cheaper on the farm is
helping to reduce costs. Other
factories could well profit by
the example set .by Nestles at
Gympie.
Valuable Mineral
“Targoo”: Thought once to
be of doubtful value as a soil-
improver, gypsum has gained
status as the cheapest source
of sulphur for soils —such as
those in parts of N.S.W.’s
northern slopes and tablelands
—which need this element.
Sulphur is an important con-
stituent of wool.
Although there is 10 to 11
per cent, of gypsum in super-
phosphate, the pure mineral
which is mined close to the
surface in many otherwise
worthless flats in Australia's
drier country is a much better
source of sulphur for soils
which have enough phosphorus
but not enough sulphur.
There is as much sulphur in
lcwt. of gypsum as there is in
l|cwt. of the more expensive
super. On the farm, gypsum
(bulk) costs about sd. a lb.,
compared with 6|d. to Id. for
pure sulphur and Is. 6d. for
super, (bagged).
Another of gypsum’s advan-
tages over pure sulphur is its
availability. Occasionally there
is some doubt as to whether
enough sulphur can be imported
to make super, out of the crude
phosphate - rock from the
Pacific. Gypsum is also used
widely in the plaster trade.
Northern Granary
“Barker”: Development of
parts of North Australia as a
large - scale food - producing
area, along with the rice
project, would be a much
better proposition than
settling the country with several
million Asians, according to
C. S. Christian, of C.5.1.R.0.,
in a recent address in South
Australia.
Settlement by Asians, he
claims, would add still another
overpopulated, underprivileged
area to the world.
Humpty Doo will produce a
lot of rice when the many
technical problems can be
overcome ; the wild - geese
menace must be beaten. Other
potential rice-producing areas
include the northern-rivers
region of the Northern Terri-
tory, and the Bull Dust soils
of the upland areas.
Work at Katherine Research
Station suggests successful
production of sorghums and
peanuts. Pasture - improve-
ment is promising, too, with
buffel-grass and Townsville-
lucerne as useful species for
carrying stock through the dry
season.
Erosion Warning
“Stylo”: Fair crops but
poor feed and more rabbits
in most of southern Australia’s
mixed-farming areas give the
biggest warning against wind-
erosion for more than a decade.
Plant-cover is the best barrier
for soil against the wind.
Most of this year’s stubbles
are clean and will not provide
much feed; but, given a
thunderstorm or two during
the summer and freedom from
rabbits, lucerne will protect
the soil on which it grows.
Rye-grain will be best kept
for sowing danger-areas in the
autumn ; its tough straw
should be left to guard the
soil.
Fallows should be ridged as
deeply as possible during the
summer ; hard patches should
not be allowed to spread;
grain-fed stock should be
congregated on small areas of
hard soil —not allowed to
wander aimlessly around the
property in search of feed
which is not there.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
To all readers of this Letter, Christmas
greetings, and hopes that in the coming
year, peace, goodwill and prosperity will
prevail.
* V
Two-thousand people saw the ancient
pageantry of the Church as the Most Rev.
Dr. Frank Woods was enthroned as the
fifth Archbishop of Melbourne. After he
had knocked with his crozier three times
on the west door of St. Paul’s Cathedral,
two scarlet-cassocked trumpeters played
a fanfare on silver trumpets, and the
Administrator of the Diocese (the Rt.
Rev. J. D. McKie) called “Who comes in
the Name of the Lord?” Then the con-
gregation heard a loud, clear voice reply,
“I, Frank, by Divine permission Lord
Archbishop of Melbourne, come to this
my Cathedral Church of St. Paul.”
In the congregation were the Governor,
Sir Dallas Brooks, with Lady Brooks,
their niece Wendy Raphael and Mrs.
John Buckland ; the Premier and Mrs.
Henry Bolte ; Lady Herring (her husband,
Sir Edmund Herring, is Chancellor of the
Diocese); Deputy-Premier A. Rylah
and Mrs. Rylah ; Legislative Council
President Sir Clifden Eager and Lady
Eager ; the Chief Justice of Victoria, Sir
Charles Lowe, and Lady Lowe ; the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. and
Mrs. F. W. Thomas); the Dean of the
Consular Corps (the Marchese Serafini);
and U.S. Consul-General Graham Hall
and Mrs. Hall.
Sitting in the Governor-General’s pew
with Mrs. Barton Babbage, wife of the
Dean of Melbourne, were the new Arch-
bishop’s wife and her two daughters,
Richenda (14), and Clemence (6). -
☆ ☆ ☆
At the civic reception given by the
Lord Mayor (Cr. F. W. Thomas) and
Mrs. Thomas for the newly consecrated
Archbishop of Melbourne, the Most Rev.
Dr. Frank Woods, and Mrs. Woods, the
hostess wore a pale-cinnamon, white-
spotted silk frock and a small white
curvette. Mrs. Woods chose a deep-blue
silk frock patterned in a black design, a
hip-length matching jacket and a side-
swept black straw hat. Also in the official
party were Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund
Herring and Lady Herring (her pretty
frock of mushroom-pink paisley-patterned
silk matched with a wide-brimmed straw
hat); Minister for Health Cameron and
Mrs. Cameron ; and the Rt. Rev. Bishop
J. D. McKie.
As well as churchmen of all the de-
nominations, guests included Cr. and Mrs.
Bernard Evans, Cr. and Mrs. Douglas
Cox, Sir Frank and Lady Selleck, Chan-
cellor of the University Mr. Justice Dean,
Dr. and Mrs. Ringland Anderson, Cr. and
Mrs. Maurice Nathan, and Cr. and Mrs.
Harry Lyall.
One-hundred women have formed
themselves into a group to work with the
men’s committee on the Cancer Cam-
paign, the objective being the raising of
£500,000. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer (at
whose home the inaugural meeting was
held) is chairman of the committee ;
deputy-chairmen are Mrs. Maurice
Nathan and Mrs.' Norman Sheppard.
Hon. secretary is Mrs. Ronald Marriott,
and hon. treasurer is Mrs. Colin Clarke.
Executive members are Mrs. Henry
Bolte, Lady Selleck, Mrs. Angus Jones,
Dame Mary Daly, Mrs. H. Marks, Mrs.
Mark Clements, Mrs. G. 1. Stevenson and
Mrs. Ross Shelmerdine. A forthcoming
function will be a dinner-dance, for
which the Menzies Hotel management
has generously offered that hotel.
With her five-feet-nothing, 7½st., and
her elfin looks, Mary Hardy is a
“natural'’ for the role of Peter Pan, which
she will play in the panto, due at the
Princess on Boxing Day. Mary, who is
23 and comes from Warrnambool, has
never seen a pantomime. She did her
theatrical-training with the National
Repetory Company and the National
Theatre. Photo by Gordon de Lisle.
An illuminated Christmas-tree and
colored fairylights decorated the garden
of the Toorak home of Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Killough for the festive party they
gave for many friends. The hostess wore
a frock of white wool lace. Among the
guests were Lieut.-General Sir Henry
Wells and Lady Wells, and Danish Consul
E. Christensen and Mrs. Christensen (both
couples celebrating their wedding-
anniversaries) ; U.S. Consul-General
Graham Hall and Mrs. Hall; Mr. and
Mrs. L. J. Dooling ; Dr. and Mrs. Paddy
Moran ; Mr. and Mrs. Garnet Carroll;
the W. K. Burnsides ; Lieut.-General and
Mrs. E. K. Smart; Sir John and Lady
Teasdale; the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. and Mrs. F. W.
Thomas); Lady Murdoch ; and Professor
and Mrs. Maurice Belz.
# V #
Dr. and Mrs. R. A. MacDougall, of
Koroit, entertained many town and
country'friends at a dance at Castlereagh
given for their son Russell and daughter
Sue. Sue was at school at The Hermitage,
Geelong, this year, and Russell is doing
his fourth-year medicine. Mrs. Mac-
Dougall chose a short frock of white
satin, contrasted with gold accessories,
and Sue a strapless Princess-line frock
of pale-blue satin. Among the guests
were Jenny Searle, Helen Henderson,
Jenny Little, Marilyn Tulley, Roger
Vines, Tony Staley, Geoffrey Wills and
Derek Stevens.
☆ ☆ ☆
Just back from a trip which took in
England, America and most of the Con-
tinent, businessman Barty Mei gives a
glowing report of preparations in Rome
for the 1960 Olympic Games,. A magni-
ficent new stadium is well under way,
also new swimming-pools, and even the
old Forum is being put to use. Barty
has brought back many new ideas in
interior-decoration.
CANBERRA
The High Commissioner for N.Z.,
G. E. L. Alderton, and Mrs. Alderton
gave a farewell cocktail-party in the
gardens of their Mugga Way home before
leaving for Sydney, where they will make
farewell calls before returning to N.Z.
Mr. Alderton, who was dean of the
diplomatic corps, spent over seven years
in Australia, and on his return home will
retire from the diplomatic service. Most
of the heads of missions in Canberra
attended the party, with their wives, and
as many were dressed formally in readi-
ness for the annual dinner at Parliament
House given by the Minister for External
Affairs in honor of the diplomatic corps,
some lovely gowns were noted.
Dr. Walther Hess, Ambassador for
Germany and the new dean, was present
with Mrs. Kess —she elegant in burgundy
chiffon ; also Lord and Lady Carrington ;
the Netherlands Ambassador, Mr. H. J.
Lovink, and his wife (she wore a bouffant
gown in white organdie and black lace);
the French Ambassador and Mme.
Renaud Sivan ; the Japanese Ambassador
and Mrs. T. Suzuki with Miss Suzuki; the
High Commissioner for South Africa, Mr.
A. M. Hamilton, and his wife ; the Italian
Minister and Signora Silvio Daneo (her
elegant black taffeta gown featured a
decollete bodice in black lace); the
Chinese Minister and Mme. Chen; the
Minister for Sweden, Mr. Carl Bergen-
strahle ; and, up from Sydney, the Chilean
Charge d’Affaires, Senor Don Juan
Domeyko, and his wife.
☆ ☆ ☆
Christmas-trees and tableaux, many
decorated by members of the diplomatic


corps, created a spirit of universal
Christmas for the Christmas Festival at
the Albert Hall arranged by the Y.W.C.A.
of Canberra.
Lady Carrington, wife of the U.K. High
Commissioner, officially opened it; she
was welcomed by president Miss Heather
Cameron and by Sydney secretary Miss
M. Jones. In her address Lady Carring-
ton said she felt the true spirit of
Christmas at the festival and a reminder
that Christianity was universal.
The 22 displays included a U.K.
Christmas-tree; an Italian nativity
tableau artistically designed by Signora
Daneo ; a lovely German tree decorated
by Mrs. Walther Hess ; a Chinese table set
by Mme. Chen; a Japanese tree decorated
by the Japanese Embassy staff ; a table
set by Mrs. A. M. Hamilton, wife of the
South African High Commissioner ; and
an attractive children’s Christmas table
arranged by the American Embassy.
Other trees were decorated by the
Estonian Society, Polish, Latvian and
local associations, together with a large
gift-tree in the foyer, where presents were
placed for distribution among aboriginal
children at Wreck Bay. A short pro-
gramme of ballet, and Christmas carols
illustrated in tableaux, was enjoyed during
the evening.
SYDNEY
One of the nicest things about the
Christmas-party season is the way it
dresses-up the city with girls
and women “all prettied up” in fresh
smart dresses, pin-point shoes, cocktail-
hats and with exciting-looking Christmas
parcels in their hands. Contrary to the
theory that women dress to please men,
these groups seem to look most “out
of the band-box” when they are going to
the Christmas dinners, luncheons, after-
noon-teas for the girls from the office
or the old-friends’ annual get-together.
& v #
The really assiduous party-goers are
already beginning to wilt, however. One
man-about-town remarked the other day:
“Really, I feel I can’t look another
sardine in the face!” And the
prevalence for so long now of Christmas
decorations (which used to burst upon
the astonished eye only on Christmas
morning) prompted another to remark
that he knew what Cromwell meant when
he said “Take away that bauble.”
# # #
Each party has its individual quality,
one finds, even though the pattern of
savories, cake and cocktails may be
similar. At the Aisling party, for
instance, there is always a happy.
atmosphere to which the singing of
traditional Irish songs lends charm. Held
in the Ulster Room of the Irish Cultural
Centre this year, the Christmas-party
heard unaccompanied songs in Gaelic
from Michael Sheehan, “The Dark
Rosaleen” beautifully sung by Mary
Blake, “The West Awake” from Eric
Drew, and concluded by singing “Adeste
Fideles,” accompanied by Mrs. M.
Baulman. Mrs. James Meagher cut the
cake, and secretary Mary Hegarty
assisted president James Meagher in
receiving the guests.
Gifted young actress Wendy Blacklock
plays the star role of Cinderella in the
pantomime at the Elizabethan Theatre.
She is probably best known for her
inimitable performances in the Phillip-
street Theatre revues, but she is also a
dramatic actress of talent, her most recent
performance being in “The Big Knife”
at the Independent. In 1952 she went to
England and studied Shakspearian presen-
tation, but varied her work there with
appearances at the Palace Theatre,
Brighton, in “Charley’s Aunt,” and was
for six months stage-manager and
character-juvenile at the Playhouse
Theatre, Newcastle-on-Tyne. Back in
Australia, she began making a name for
herself in radio, and she is also a
permanent member of the TV-panel show
“Pantomime Quiz."
There was a great assembling of repre-
sentatives of many Commonwealth
countries at the Royal Empire Society’s
party (it becomes the Royal Common-
wealth Society soon, so it is said), and the
atmosphere was really Christmassy. Mr.
Ivan Black, M.P., was the host and
received the guests with Mrs. Black.
Mrs. Fred Daniells did the flower-
displays, which included Christmas-bells
and -bush, and the three floors of the
society’s home in Bligh Street were thrown
open for the party. Included among the
guests were Director-General of Educa-
tion Dr. H. S. Wyndham and Mrs. Wynd-
ham, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Williams, Sir
James and Lady Bisset, Mr. and Mrs.
L. A. Scott, Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Went-
worth, and Mr. and Mrs. Bruce McLeod.
This was Mrs. McLeod’s first party since
the birth of her baby son, now one month
old. He has been called Roderick
Talisker —a name that comes down in
the Clan McLeod from the famous Sir
Rory More.
. Noel Pelly, also at the party, reported
that his brother, Dr. Tony, has been
admitted to the Royal College of Surgeons
and is now holidaying on the Continent.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many of the guests at the party given
by the P. and O. Company on board S.S.
Strathmore went round by launch from
Circular Quay to Pyrmont and so shed
the cares of the city streets in watching
the beauties of the harbor and the ships.
There were over 400 guests at the party
(received by Captain Gordon-Christian)
and they included representatives of the
leading travel-agencies, shipping-firms,
importers and exporters of this city.
# # v
OF HUSBANDS
I offered him a gold wrist-watch,
A fountain-pen—in vain!
For all he wants for Christmas
Is a nice drop of rain.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Martinique, that intriguing 1 /
decorated new bistro at Bellevue Hill, was
chosen as the rendezvous for an Indepen-
dent Theatre party early in the week.
Champagne and really notable savories
were served and among those who spun
the conversation along were Miss Doris
Fitton, the Erik Langkers, the John
Appletons and the Leon Henrys. It is said
that every party should include a beauty,
a wit, and a man with a beard. It would,
of course, be invidious to choose the
beauty or the wit, but the man with the
beard, whom everyone took for the fetch
of Edward VII, was really Mr. Peter
Clark.
☆ ☆ ☆
Entertainment for the youngsters does
not present such a problem this
Christmas, as it seems plentiful and
varied. There are three pantomimes, in-
cluding “Cinderella” at the Elizabethan,
which is making a point of telling the
story in a straightforward way—some-
thing that the panto, tradition was just
about forgetting. The Ugly Sisters,
played by Olive Walters and her husband
( David Burney, should be a riot, as he
’is over 6ft. tall and she is sft. 4in. As
with all the other pantomimes, the Dame
will be a man (in this case the delightful
Reg Quartly) and the Principal Boy a
girl (Rosemary Marriott). This tradition
arose from the idea that it was fun to dress
up in one another’s clothes.
“The Willow Pattern Plate,” the lovely
little musical-play for children at the
Phillip-street Theatre, was first put on
at the end of June for a short season, but
its charm both for adults and children
proved so great that it is still ‘attracting
full houses. There are daily matinees for
this production, which is written and
acted by Australians.
Another Australian play for children
is “The Little Round House” at the
Independent Theatre, which shows at
Saturday matinees. Written by the late
Gladys Lister with music by Judith
Yardley, it is an Australian fantasy with
an ingenuous freshness that appeals to
youngsters.


“Good. That’s clear,” said
Hal. “I reckon the next stage
is to call those blokes up here
and question them.”
IV/TY cook-boy Kumarti re-
turned with the discon-
certed Dango and the informa-
tion that the others were being
found and would follow
briefly.
Hal waited patiently for
them all to arrive, sitting back
in the chair hugging his knee
to his chin. In profile Hal’s
physiognomy, with its bones
tight against thin, leathery
skin and the beak of a nose
complemented by a thrusting
angular Adam’s - apple, re-
sembled some large bird of
prey. Most times he wore the
face of a satisfied hawk but
occasionally, as now, while he
studied Dango through two
unwavering eyes, the contented
aspect was replaced by a pre-
datory expression. The sombre
bean-pole of a boy uneasily
shifted his weight from one
foot to the other. The others
were delaying, so Hal sud-
denly released his leg and
leaned forward in attack.
“Why did you separate from
your two companions yester-
day afternoon and return
alone?”
The boy’s thick lips quivered,
then clamped fast.
“Hmm?” probed Hal. “You
sneaked here alone and entered
Master’s house while he was
absent and stole bis box of
money?”
“Not so, Master. Not so.”
“Then for what purpose did
you leave the others?”
The dark brown boy
clammed silent, only staring at
the seated white man out of
recessed eye-sockets which gave
you the uncanny impression of
gazing into the wrong end of
binoculars.
“Here’s the boss-boy,” added
Hal, looking over the window-
sill. “We’ll ask him.”
Raymond bustled panting
up the roadway and paused at
the steps.
“Come on up, Raymond,” I
called.
Hal turned to him. “Ray-
mond, did you notice this boy
when you were out along the
northern beach yesterday?”
“Yessah,” chuckled the
solid-chested ugly boss-boy. “I
saw him. He was stalking fish
at the reef’s edge with two
other boys. I passed them by
on my way to the mangroves.”
“Why did he separate from
his companions?”
“I don’t know, Master. I
passed them and headed on to
the mangroves to find oysters.
When I returned I saw only a
scattering of village Marys on
the reef who were collecting
coral to burn for lime, and pre-
sumed that the three boys had
gone home ahead of me. I was
astonished when I later per-
ceived over my shoulder that
Dango’s long legs were over-
taking me down the plantation
hill.”
“We will ask the other two
when they arrive,” said Hal,
darting a quizzical glance at
the sullen boy.
Out of the following pause
Hal fired at Raymond the sort
of sudden question likely to
trip a guilty person. “Why did
you come to the house while
Master was away?”
Raymond understood his
intent and chuckled in his chest
to the accompaniment of an
exposure of broad teeth. “I
didn’t, Master. I had no
reason. I was not fortunate
enough to collect many oysters.
Nor had Master sewn my lap-
lap. If I had found plenty
of oysters I might have
approached the house to sell
him some. But I did not.”
“Good,” concluded Hal,
satisfied.
The other two lads appeared
on the drive, hesitating and
twisting apprehensively.
I strode to the veranda-rail
and bawled at them to jump
forward.
The pair were stricken with
fear, but I noticed with amuse-
ment that in the midst of his
trepidation the youngster’s
face had room for astonish-
ment and curiosity as his eyes
encountered Hal’s ragged
attire for the first time. Doubt-
less being convinced that all
white men are millionaires,
he was utterly baffled as to
why this Master should have a
penchant for wearing clothes in
the final disintegrating stages
of decay. I wished I knew the
explanation myself.
In answer to Hal’s query
why Dango had separated from
them, they both retreated
behind the assertion that they
didn’t savvy.
“Listen! ” barked Hal,
harshly addressing the middle-
aged bow-legged one. “Some-
body stole Master’s box con-
taining a big money. If you
won’t talk we will naturally
conclude that it was you who
took it. So will the Kiap when
he comes with his police-men.
It will be better for you to tell
us straight.”
r T'HE frightened pair exposed
eye-whites as they glanced
at each other. The older one
babbled anxiously: “A Mary
drew him away. We were
returning along the beach and
came upon some Marys collec-
ting coral on the reef, and
one of them called out a sug-
gestion. Only Dango was
carrying money. So he and the
Mary went into the bushes.
We two walked on.”
Hal relaxed with a grin at
me and chuckled in English,
“Well. Whacko! Passion in
the undergrowth! ” He directed
his amusement on to the poker-
faced Dango. “Better than
spearing fish any day.”
He altered his tone. “Right.
That’s Dango and Raymond
accounted for. Now you two.”
He returned his gaze to the
nervous youngster and his older
companion. “Did you fellows
come near Master’s house on
your way back?”
“No,” hastily asserted the
middle-aged one stupidly. He
glanced at the youngster, whose
mouth was still agape. The
youngster piped an echoing
no.
“But you lie,” explained Hal.
“You came on to the veranda
and picked up your laplaps.”
They studied their toes
silently.
“If you tell us where you hid
the money,” wheedled Hal
gently, “you won’t be sent to
calaboose. But if we two
Masters have to go to all the
trouble of unearthing it,” he
threatened with increased
volume, “you will very likely
be constructing roads for a
long time to come.”
“Master,” trembled the older
one, “we just took our laplaps
and went. You ask him. He’ll
assure you.” He thrust a finger
at my second house-boy, Abua,
who was listening in the back-
ground.
“How would he know?” I
demanded, sitting up. “He was
not in the house, was he?”
“Yes, Master. He was in
the kitchen.”
I turned my head and speared
a stare into the house-boy.
“You told me you would be
visiting your cousins on
Master Hal’s plantation all day
Sunday?”
Flitting his eyes about every-
where but on our faces, he
stuttered, “I decided it was too
much a long way to walk,
Master. I spent the day culti-
vating my garden.”
“Why did you dart back into
the house on your day-off just
at a period when I was absent
then?” I demanded, con-
sumed by suspicion.
“I came to retrieve my
mouth-organ which I had left
in the kitchen on Saturday
morning,” he protested with
developing alarm.
“1 didn’t see you pass up the
road?”
“No, Master. My garden is
in the jungle above the house.
I short-cutted straight down to
here and back again.”
“My God!” I exploded to
Hal in exasperation. “There
isn’t one of them who couldn’t
be guilty. The more you
investigate, the more compli-
cations come to light. What
do you think?”
“I reckon it’s time we
knocked-off and attacked some
tucker. My belly thinks
m’throat’s cut,” he drawled.
“What?”
I looked outside, aghast. The
sun had disappeared and the
sky was streaked with evening.
He was right, but I was appalled
by his abrupt, undisguised drop
of interest. 111-temperedly I
dismissed the assembly and
stumped off into the kitchen
to supervise the preparation
of the meal. I heard him rise
and go down the front steps.
After seeing the poultry
surrounded by potatoes
launched into the oven I
lighted the two pressure-lamps
and returned carrying one
hissing into the dining-room.
The expanding light discovered
Hal sprawled on a chair,
ruminating in the dark.
I settled the lamp on the table
alongside the cash-box and
began to pump more pressure
into it. My hand dropped in
THE STRAY CAT
The fire dissolves; a cat
Which lay and warmed its
fears
Has gone. Within my house
I see down fifteen years
When my belief was burnt
Away—a hearth left black.
The opened door revealed
A faint, relentless track
Where intellect, unhoused,
Could learn within moonlight
A feline sense. It creeps
All black; becomes the night
Of nothing with each cold
And homeless inch. The last
To vanish must be eyes
When all nine lives are lost.
England.
R. A. Simpson.


stupefaction as I realised the
shape my eyes had registered.
“Hey, that’s my cash-tin!”
I cried, goggling from the steel
box on the table to his grin.
A jab of alarm impelled me
to lift it. It was heavy. Relief.
1 feverishly joggled the key in
the interstice and flung back
the lid. The box brimmed with
its full treasure of silver pieces.
I collapsed into a chair.
“Where did you find it?” I
gasped. Hal was enjoying my
performance immensely. “Just
located it,” he answered non-
chalantly.
“No, no. Tell me,” 1
insisted, frantic with curiosity,
jumping up again. “Where did
you find it?”
“I’ll explain after tea,” he
smiled. “The key to the solu-
tion was so simple and obvious
that when you’re shown it
you’ll belittle my smartness. So
for another hour I’m going to
enjoy the role of brilliant detec-
tive before I enlighten you.”
/COMFORTABLY fed, we
lounged ecstatically in the
cane easy-chairs and Kumarti,
with radiant teeth and almost
wagging an invisible tail,
carried in the tray. I watched
Hal lift his cup of chocolate
to his mouth. The cup-rim
levered the two prongs of his
moustache upwards with the
jerk motion of a dog’s ears
alerting. He sipped appreci-
ably, then lowered the cup to
the saucer.
I leaned forward fervidly.
“Now look. You’ve kept me
on needles long enough”
“All right,” Hal agreed.
“Raymond was amazingly
quick-witted, but he let slip one
discordant statement. He de-
clared that on his return
from the mangroves he had
not approached your house to
retrieve his laplap because you
hadn't sewn it up. Remember?
How did he know you hadn't
sewn hi si You sewed the
other three. You recounted
to me your conversation with
him at the road-fork and no
mention was made of laplaps.
The man knew you hadn’t
sewn it because when he
reached under the bed to grab
the cash-box, the laplap lay on
the floor alongside where you
had dropped it when when
you dived into sleep. And as
a matter of fact it’s still there.
The excitement and suspicion
must have rattled your house-
boys so much that while you
were away fetching me this
morning they neglected to
tidy your bedroom.”
I stretched my neck to see
past the door-post, and as Hal
had stated the laplap still lay
beside my bed.
He continued. “On the basis
of this discovered lie I recon-
structed the course of action
the boss-boy could have taken.
He came to collect his lap-
lap and found that the bunga-
low was deserted. He spotted
one completed laplap on the
veranda-chair, so he stepped
up to locate his. The house
gaped empty. On an impulse
of curiosity he padded through
the rooms. The cash-box lay
invitingly. As he knelt and
drew it to him he noticed his
laplapi. The cash-box easily
went into his big oyster-basket.
He reached the road-junction
without being observed and it
must have seemed to him
there that the deed was accom-
plished. But he had taken only
a few steps up the hill to
return to the covering jungle
when the unexpected figure of
Dango appeared on the
summit striding down towards
him.
“The weight of the basket
was dragging Raymond lop-
sided. He couldn’t hope to
approach Dango with a
normal gait. Furthermore, his
return up the hill would
appear peculiar to the
approaching boy.
“So the boss-boy turned
with the intention of hurrying
ahead down the road. You
observed his few retracing
steps and wrongly imagined
that he had just marched down
the hill. The sight of your
bobbing head halted him. He
didn’t hesitate at the road-fork
because he contemplated
approaching your house, but
probably because he was con-
sidering diving off into the
palms. He dared not advance
to meet you because you
would see that he lugged an
extraordinary weight. What
was more, he guessed that you
would insist on inspecting the
oysters in his basket. Yet if
he headed off at a tangent into
the palms, you would also
remember this odd action
afterwards, when your wrath-
ful eye would be glaring about
for a culprit.
“So he dropped on to a
nearby pile of coconut-husks,
While you were both yet
distant he surreptitiously
shoved the box between his
legs into the pile and re-
arranged husks over it. By
the time you had arrived, the
man s confident cheeriness
had fully returned and he had
prepared the story about wait-
ing to cadge a smoke from
Dango.
Good Lord, I gasped,
relaxing back into my chair ;
“such ready intelligence is
remarkable for a boy.”
“My oath,” agreed Hal.
“Which was why 1 felt flimsy
confidence in my theorising
when I walked out in the dusk
and glanced about at the road-
fork for a mound. But after
flinging aside a few layers
from a pile of husks —there
nestled the box. But then, I
suppose you must expect a
bit more savvy from Ray-
mond. You didn’t make him
a boss-boy without reason.”
“True,” I agreed, and then
added with dismay, “Now I
suppose I’m going to lack a
boss-boy for six months while
he’s at calaboose.”
“I don’t know so much,”
demurred Hal. “You have no
proof, you know, fella. Realise,
too, that ethics and morals are
just two words that the white
man has invented. Raymond
wouldn’t regard himself as
having sinned. He would see
the affair as a contest. You
laid a challenge by leaving the
cash-tin exposed. He took the
first round by snaffing it un-
detected. We won the second
round by recovering it. He’ll
probably consider the situation
now as quits. I’ll bet he
appears for work in the morn-
ing without hesitation in his
usual blatant buoyant per-
sonality.”
“Perhaps you’re right,” I
admitted,
A CROSS the room I eyed
with annoyed admiration
the man whose acute wits had
spotted the fleeting snag of
incongruity that I had missed.
Hal Hand, the Bachelor-of-
Arts turned bushman turned
planter, who deliberately hides
his alert intelligence behind
that rangy sleepy fafade, who
cultivates himself as a draw-
ling, slangy hick solely to
observe the impact oh others
of the sudden revelation of his
capabilities.
“I’ll be taking you home at
first-light in the morning,” I
announced dryly.
“Why the rush?”
“F o r this rea s o n,” I
retorted ; “if you were to stay
here another day, a chap
would develop an inferiority-
complex from which he might
never recover.”
He chuckled and added, “My
fee for recovering the cash
will be only one carton of beer.”
“You Shylock,” I smiled.
“Just call me Sherlock,” he
said.


its original nakedness. The writer of
it, as he painted himself, was certainly
an “original,” but features of his
story —his strange romances and
the strange leniencies of his jailers at
the proper moments to suit the plot, his
Irish colleen with the martyr husband
of whom there is no historic trace-
read as if he had sought to set down
not a veracious record, but the basic
plot and outline of characters for a sort
of precursor to Marcus Clarke’s “For
the Term of His Natural Life.”
Viewed in his real perspective, he
was undoubtedly mentally off-balance,
but nobody can complain of his jailers
if they reacted reluctantly when, on the
tail of two Irish rebellions, they found
him organising dissidents into a “bond
of union... .pledging ourselves to
prosecute by every legal means when-
ever called upon, any wicked men who
now govern or have heretofore
governed his Majesty’s Territories in
N. S. Wales and its Dependencies in
violation of the British Constitution,
whether by secret instructions or by
public acts.” In these categories he
included, more particularly, the local
judges and magistrates.
Grant, apart from his other
accomplishments, professed to be a
poet, and some specimens of his poesy
quoted establish him as the natural
forerunner of Michael Massey Robin-
son and almost the equal of the late
Alfred Austin, who surely would have
regretted not having fathered such
lines as those which close the piece
entitled “Thoughts written in a
Mulberry-tree with, the rising Sun and
the River in sight. To Mrs. Putland,
a daughter of Admiral Bligh, Sep.,
1807” —the famous month in which
the lady set in train the events that
naturally led to the rebellion by appear-
ing in church in a dress so diaphanous
that her “trowsers” were a real
necessity:—
Oft may his lips be stain’d with
Mulb’ry Tart;
May Honor’s purity protect from
stain, his Heart!
His “poetry” gives him one claim to
fame. He appears to have been the
first local muse to use the word
“Australian” to describe this continent
—in 1805.
M. H. E.
Idriess's Annual
There is the lon Idriess who has a
good, solid story to tell, with a
beginning and a middle and an end;
and there is the lon Idriess who
pumps-up bits and pieces from his
extensive repertoire into a set of
chapters like a cluster of balloons-on-
sticks in the hands of a Sydney show-
man: Coral Sea Calling (Angus and
Robertson) is of the balloons-on-sticks
variety.
Ostensibly about the discovery of
the Coral Sea as a beche-de-mer farm
and then as a trochus-shell and pearl
repository, and about the slow subjuga-
tion of its dangerous natives, it is still
padding-out early Sydney and Queens-
land history by page 50, and then only
gradually, and in short bursts, as of a
man taking breath and then blowing a
balloon, does the story get up into
those already somewhat literary islands,
and the dreadful things Big Chiefs
Kebisu and Wongai did to English
seamen a’nd their women passengers.
But as in all Idriess books, there is
always something good somewhere;
and here it is the two chapters on
Jemmy the Hook, who had had both
hands chopped off by mutinous
islander-crews, and who returned with
iron hooks instead of hands to take
a gruesome vengeance on yet another
mutinous crew; it is a story which calls
all the Idriess descriptive powers into
play, and the reader avid of blood-and-
guts can be assured of exactly that.
The Life of the Shrew
Dr. Peter Crowcroft, of Tasmania,
who for some unfathomable reason
has been studying the house-mouse for
the British Government and, more
recently, for his own pleasure, the
habits of the shrew —a dank and
mouselike little mammal which worries
worms and beetles as a terrier worries
a rat —has produced in The Life of the
Shrew (Reinhardt) a charming little
book which, while it will chiefly appeal
to connoisseurs of the common-shrew,
the pygmy-shrew and the water-shrew
of Great Britain, has much to interest
Nature-lovers everywhere.
At least one crumb of Australian
information is dropped by the way:
Dr. Crowcroft says that the water-
shrew, though waterproof for short
periods, needs a tunnel in which to
squeeze itself dry after prolonged
immersion, and the same is apparently
true of the platypus.
No Nature-writer of the present day
can hope to match the marvels
recorded by the more imaginative
observers of the past; and for the
pleasure of its Elizabethan prose, as
well as for its curiosities, one must
quote, from Dr. Maurice Burton’s
introduction to Dr. Crowcroft, a little
from Topsell’s “History of Four-
footed Beasts” (1607): —
- It [the shrew] is a ravening beast,
feigning itself gentle and tame, but
being touched it biteth deep, and
poisoneth deadly. It beareth a cruel
mind, desiring to hurt anything,
neither is there any creature it loveth.
They annoy vines, and are seldom
taken except in cold ; they frequent
ox-dung. If they fall into a cart-
road, they die and cannot get forth
again. They go very slowly, they
are fraudulent and take their prey
by deceit. Many times they gnaw
the ox’s hoofs in the stable. They
love the rotten flesh of a raven.
The shrew being cut and applied in
the manner of a plaister doth
effectually cure her own bites.
However, forced though he is to
THE THREE SNAKES
“I, the golden snake, lie
curled like sunlight round this tree
furling on the stiff, curved world.
Leaf-gold is my strong, sleek back.
Gold coins, fair riches, spot my sinuous
sides.
Upon the earth the solid gold shines
out;
lights darkened corners, gleams -
through all harvest dreams. I am
bright wealth, and light.”
“I, the black snake, issue
forth from cool dark crevices of
thought
to gleam like coal with moonlight on
my back.
Diamonds flash in my eyes. Soft; this
silvery
hissing slither through silver grass-
slivers
describes inexplicable motion. Darker
than darkness
I am the dark in the light; yet night
is blacker,
dead-black when I, the idea, am gone.”
“I, the green snake, sneak
through the rich green leaves of spring.
I melt and coil like water lapping
the stream’s soft bank. lam youth’s
emerald power.
Jealousy and envy’s fear rise with me.
I lurk
on a carpet of violet-leaves under the
lilies
to lure love’s white hand to the sins
of spoil.”
“We are all three linked yet separate;
the sinister
evil behind all beauty. Laocoon’s
ruin; all myths of paradise and death
lie coiled in our gold, black and green.
We walk with lovely things, yet none
shall dare destroy us. Greed, fear and
hate remain
for if we die shall Eden shine unseen.”
L. E. Craigie.


Thoughts In The Wilderness
J. B. PRIESTLEY
These provocative essays will make a lasting impression.
At all booksellers - - - 26/-.
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
FLYING MATILDA
by Norman Ellison
The author captures the great spirit and enthusiasm of the men who pioneered Australian
aviation. The first part of the book tells of the birth of Qantas, of the beginning of the
Flying Doctor Service and of such men as Hudson Fysh and C. A. Butler. The second
part is a biography of Sir Charles Kingsford Smith with many facets and sidelights which
will be entirely new to readers. 27/6 (post lid*).
Available from all booksellers and . . .
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
An exciting novel of motor racing
THE GREEN HELMET
Jon Cleary
The brilliant Australian author of The Climate of Courage has turned to
the world of speed, thrills and excitement in this, his latest book. He writes
superbly of fear and danger, of the clash and conflict of character as well
as the clash of metal.
Ready
Noiv
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
At all
Booksellers
correct some of these marvels, Dr.
Crowcroft has enough of his own. He
is particularly interesting on the
intelligence of shrews; citing the pet
shrew which learned to climb up to
the top of a branch stuck in its cage
to receive a mealworm;—
The shrew would seize the meal-
worm, climb to the ground and eat
it, and climb up for another. After
taking three in rapid succession it
sniffed at but refused the fourth,
and climbed down again. I thought
this was due to complete lack of
interest, but to my delight the shrew
ran a few inches from the twig,
quickly scratched a shallow hole
and returned for the mealworm. This
was bitten about the head, laid in
the hole and covered by raking
back the soil with the forefeet. In
this instance I do not doubt that
the hole was made expressly for
storing the mealworm.
This is very shrewd of the shrew;
but on the other hand there is the
awkward situation that occurs when,
carrying food to its nest, the creature
happens to drop the prize en route: it
continues its journey to the nest and
then comes back for what it has
dropped. Apparently once having
made up its mind to go home, it must
not pause.
A similar problem arises when,
excavating its burrow, it finds itself
with a pebble in its mouth. Pebbles
are merely rubbish to be cast aside;
but something about the size of a
pebble in the mouth means food; and
so the shrew carts the pebble to its
nest, though with obvious doubts about
the good sense of what it is doing:—
The hesitant behavior of putting
down the pebble and picking it up
again appears to me to indicate that
in its dim and mechanical little
mind the shrew is trying to decide
between returning to its digging, and
obeying the promptings of an instinc-
tive behavior-pattern. Perhaps the
struggle going on in the shrew’s
brain at such moments is of
considerable historical significance.
As to the proverbial bad-temper of
the shrew, Dr. Crowcroft is not really
able to say very much for his small
friends, but at least he makes it clear
that both sexes are equally shrewish.
The males, when fighting, take a grip
that would hardly be allowed by
human beings, even in a wrestling-
ring; and if the female, before she is
willing to mate, unmercifully beats-up
the male, a very short time after she
has relented he expresses his gratitude
or takes his revenge by beating her up.
This may be human enough, but it is
not to be admired.
So much, then, for shrews.
Reviewed Briefly
The Penguin people are nothing if
not topical. Recent batch includes
Moon Ahead, by Leslie and John
Hutchinson. It tells the story of a race
to the moon between a party of genuine
scientists and a gang of crooks. The
goodies, naturally, win; but a more
important aspect of the conflict is that
in the course of it they provide almost
enough reliable scientific information
about distances, conditions and appara-
tus to enable an intelligent small boy
to make a rocket in his backyard, get
inside and press a button and be in
the moon before his parents got up for
breakfast.
* * * *
Nature into History: Leslie Paul
(Faber). The au\hor sets out to discover
whether or not human history should
be regarded simply as “a continuation
of evolution”; and, ploughing know-
ledgeably but rather too rapidly
through evolutionary theory, primitive
customs, linguistics, philosophical and
religious beliefs, comes to the conclu-
sion that “The more one ponders the
mystery of man the less probable it
seems that one misshapen Hominoid
blundered into the realm of the
specifically human, and the more prob-
able it is that man was called into it,
or even commanded into it, by Divine
act.”
* * * *
Divorce in England: O. R. McGregor
(Heinemahn). “The comment of a
historically-minded social-scientist” on
a century of civil divorce; beginning
with some ecclesiastical history, pro-
ceeding to analyse “the Victorian
family” and then chiefly discussing the
Morton Commission which reported on
divorce in Great Britain in 1951. In
tendency it is a plea for divorce-reform
on the grounds that “Free men and
women ought not to tolerate barriers
erected as safeguards against their
assumed irresponsibility.”


In horn© lighting...
CENTURY
THE FIELD!
WITH A BATTERY THATS
YEARS AHEAP OF
ANY OTHER IN AUSTRALIA
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
battery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel-
lous new homelighting Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL^—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
*—NEW CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE DYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
SILVIUM—the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WiTH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS. GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURY HOMELIGHT.
ING BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
TRANSPARENT POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . , . you can see
the acid level at a glance.
INBUILT GRAVITY BALL INDICA-
TORS . . . show state of ehaige
AT ALL TIMES. No more messy
hydrometer.
GLASS INSULATION gives su*.
tained powe r during the BAT*
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
THESE ARE THE POWERFUL REASONS WHY CENTURY
BACKS THIS BATTERY WITH A BULLETPROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SILVIUM
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST . . . BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
IILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
DISTRIBUTORS:
SOrTB WALES: Century Storage Battery Co., Ltd., Birmingham St., Alexandria,
B udley Bros. Ltd., 5,>-59 & 08-72 Wentworth Ave., Sydney. Grimley Ltd., 247-253 Broadway,
S.\dne>. Industrial Sales A Service (N.SAV.) Ply. Ltd., Parramatta Rd„ Lideombe. Motor
traders Pty. Ltd ,0 Commonwealth St., Sydney. Adran.r Tyre A Rubber Co. Ply. Ltd.,
JNeud & McLachlan Ave., Kushcutters Bay. (Sydney Metropolitan Area.)
LOWER RIVERINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St., Albury.
Philli P s Battery Supplies Pty., 458 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
Tii ir Blunt (Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Samuel Allen A- Sons.
1 ownst'dle. II yper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan
" " \“ un ®- Lawrence Motor Company, Boisover St., Rockhampton. Corner & Co. Pty. Ellena
Wns Mac-kw Gmp%e Machi,ler d & Electrical Coy., Mary St., Gympie. Jas. Croker
Slti-'r^ivST^rL Blo^ 06 , Batter » Co -> pt V'> Ltd -> Macaulay Rd., North Melbourne.
St., \ddaide RALIA 1 Century Batteri es (S.A.) Ltd. (Sole Concessionaire*), 15 Ackland
guaranteed
THlllii; YEARS
m
m
t zJ-
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
s
Post this coupon to-day to
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD.,
Box 52, P.O. Alexandria, N.S.W., for your free
homelighting booklet giving complete details
of this marvellous new battery.
NAMB.„
ADDRESS.
001 OdD
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Altwood Motors Ply. Ltd., 22 Stirling
St., Perth.
TASMANIA. C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst St., Hobart; 274
Brisbane St., Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros ( Darwin ) Pty. Ltd., Darwin.
