

ft
e
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
America’s China Policy —page 42
Wednesday, June 26, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE attractive town of Burford, in the Cotswokl Country, is a
picture of unchanging England at its best. It is a reminder of
the days of the great wool merchants who built their houses solidly
and well, not only for themselves but for their children’s grand-
children. ■ ■ , . .
Burford Church, illustrated here, is renowned for the beauty
of its architecture, ranging from Norman to Perpendicular, and is
if ten referred to as the “Westminster Abbey of the Cotswolds.”
1 he fame of Burford as a wool centre was known throughout
England in the 14th and l. r »th centuries, and the wealthy merchants
made generous contributions towards the cost of enlarging and
beautifying their church. The names of these early benefactors are
still commemorated in the aisles and chapols. Here, for example, can
be seen one of the rare bracket brasses of which so few remain in
England. It dates from 1437. in memory of John Spvcer and his wife
Alys For nearly four hundred years the Lady Chapel was the burial
place of members of the Sylvester family, who were lavish benefactors
of the town.
During the Civil War, 350 of Cromwell’s prisoners were kept
for three "lays and nights in the church, during which time one of
the prisoners occupied his time by carving his name and date "1649
on the font. The nave is a noble portion of the church and took
the place of an Early English structure; the font belongs to the
Decorated period and is a work of art thoroughly in harmony with
the rest of the church.
An outstanding feature of the church is the beautiful fan tracery
roof of the inner porch, which is over five centuries old, yet the
stone looks almost as fresh today as when it was first prepared.
Flic Great Norman Tower, surmounted by its slender spire, is the
earliest part of the church and was probably erected about the
year 1150. .
No. 355: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
BURFORD CHURCH, OXFORDSHIRE


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you— fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
NEW PENGUIN CLASSICS
New translations continue to pour
from the Penguin presses. They are
all such extraordinarily good reading
as to make one wonder why our school-
masters invariably served us with
commentaries or commentaries on
commentaries which suffused every
subject they dealt with with unutter-
able boredom when they could have
supplied us with the original source
of the commentators’ alleged wisdom.
The Twelve Caesars, by Gaius
Suetonius Tranquillus, in a wonderful
Robert Graves translation, is an
excellent example.
Suetonius was a court-official and
was chief-secretary to the Emperor
Hadrian, who dismissed him when he
returned from Britain for behaving
indiscreetly with the Empress Sabrina.
He lived nearly thirty years under
various Caesars, had access to the
Imperial archives and talked to eye-
witnesses of many of the events he
described. A remarkable thing about
him is that he lived to a good age and
that none of his Imperial masters had
him tortured and thrown into the
Tiber.
Suetonius must have been a man of
considerable courage to have written
of Caligula that it was his habit to
commit incest with each of his three
sisters in turn and that when he
attended the wedding of a leading
citizen he carried the bride off to his
own home. Caligula was probably
mad: Nero probably wasn’t.
The trouble with Nero was that he
had tickets on himself as a poet and
a singer. For the ordinary man it is
difficult enough to become a poet; for
an absolute monarch who is believed to
be a god it is wellnigh impossible,
Nero would brook no rivals, and when
he took part in the public competitions
and the judges gave first-prize to a
rival he had them sewn in bags and
had the bags dropped into a sewer. No
one was allowed to leave the theatre
during his recitals, so women gave birth
to babies during the performance and
men became so bored that they
shammed dead (so the historian alleges)
so that their bodies could be carried
away for burial. Consequently when
Nero appeared the applause was
always deafening and the judges were
suitably enraptured with him.
Before eveiy performance he would
address the judges With the utmost
deference; saying that he had done
what he could, and that the issue was
now in Fortune’s hands, but since they
were men of judgment and “experience,
they would know how to eliminate the
factor of chance. When they told him
not to worry he felt better, but still
anxious; and mistook the silence of
some for severity and the embarrass-
ment of others for disfavor, admitting
that he suspected every one of them—
and when anybody came under Nero’s
suspicion, even a friend, he might just
as well open his arteries himself to
save Nero the trouble of doing it for
him.
Nero never asked himself any ques-
tions 'about his feelings—nobody,
except a few geniuses, ever do. He
simply projected his feelings on to
some external object, and, as he was
an autocrat with absolute power, the
external object had to suffer. This, as
Suetonius makes clear, was the
explanation of the fact that not only
Nero, but every one of the twelve
Caesars, except Julius and Augustus,
became more and more insensately
cruel the longer they held this power.
The Romans were simple, ordinary,
god-fearing people, who, like their
rulers, believed implicitly in their
feelings, and they actually deified the
emperors who murdered, cheated and
robbed them and sent them to the
slaughter in tens of thousands, just as
we deify our nuclear scientists and
statesmen. They even deified Claudius,
who ruled that gladiators who acci-
dentally fell over should have their
throats cut immediately and in his
presence; and who, after executing his
wife Messalina, went into dinner ant
presently asked, “Why is her ladyshi|
not here?” Suetonius calls this scatter
brainedness.
He is appreciative of Julius Caesar
but doesn’t hesitate to mention that lit
was “every woman’s husband am
every husband’s wife,” and he i:
equally appreciative of Augustus ane
Titus. He even gives Tiberius benefil
of jury, blaming the appalling cruelties
that closed his reign on the goddess
Fortune, who forced an empire upon
him when what he really longed for
was a quiet, secluded, lazy life of
contemplation and self-indulgence-
Norman Douglas, of course, was sub-
sequently to disagree with him about
Tiberius.
Hanging over the heads of all the
Caesars were favorable or frightening
omens which they believed in, which
their subjects believed in and which
Suetonius, who carefully records them,
obviously himself believed in. Suetonius
considers that even Claudius would
have been a good man if he had not
become an emperor, but he was too
much controlled by his wives, of whom
he had four . . . the last of them,
Agrippina, poisoning him to make way
for her darling Nero.
Of the small-fry, Otho stabbed him-
self to death after only three months,
and Vitellius, whose ruling vices were
gluttony and cruelty, was assassinated,
Vespasian was witty but avaricious,
and Domitian, the last of the Caesars,
was extremely lustful, and called his
sexual activities “bed-wrestling,” as if
they were a sport. “For a while,”
Suetonius remarks, “he governed in an
uneven fashion: that is to say, his vices
were at first balanced. by his virtues.
Later he transformed his virtues into
vices, too —for I am inclined to believe
that he was not evil-minded to begin
with: it was lack of funds that made
him greedy and fear of assassination
that made him cruel.”
Another Penguin that lives in a
Robert Graves translation is Lucan's
Pharsalia. Graves doesn’t like him,
and calls him the originator of yellow
journalism, but that does not prevent
his dramatisation of the quarrel
between Pompey and Julius Caesar
being as exciting as the wildest
Western.
THE POET’S SONG
The wind that buffets mortal pates
And tugs the leaves from autumn’s tree
With clean and crystal broom has
swept
The cloud-wrack from eternity.
In dazzling space one leaf is blown—
See, crumpled changeling, it takes wing.
Leaf, is it? Lark? Oh, listen now,
Behind the wind-rush hear it sing.
Sing, bird; sing, man and woman,
child,
And praise with me the wind that
blows
My sum of summers from the tree
And leaves me these unburdened
boughs
(Though one leaf yet is clinging there)
To make against the deepening sky
When all the buffeting is done
A strict and calm calligraphy.
And now that last leaf falls, is blown
In climbing spirals to the height;
Transformed into a bird it sings
With passionate and easy art
The song that through my sum of years
Has still eluded all my pain.
Listen—the wind has fallen—now.
Oh never need I seek again.
N.S.W.
Rosemary Dobson.
From "Punch”
If only because there is an excellent
Australian airman in it, who con-
tinually refers in tones of deep
sympathy rather than derision to “the
fat pommy,” Olivia Manning’s Mf
Husband Cartwright (Heinemann)
(Continued on page 58)


ELLING TEAM
hits the headlines again
WORLD’S RECORD PRICE
for Poll Merino Ram ... 5000 guineas
The World’s Record Price Poll Merino Ram sold on account of Charles Mills (Uardry) Pty. Ltd., Hay, for
5000 guineas. Purchased for F. S. Falkiner and Sons Pty. Ltd., breeders of the Poll Boonoke stud, the
parent stud of Poll Merino Breeding in Australia.
' , .... „
m
■ :
*• •*
m
-
• SI
m
mmm -1 a
W:
rnmmi
Iffs
Sell through the firm that is Big . . . and sells Big I!
ELDER, SMITH & GO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED.... SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED . . , . BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, June 26, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4037
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
LEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens and: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Vi ESTralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
The House of Obstruction
TKE threat by the A.L.P. to organise
a Senate vote to wreck the Common-
wealth Government’s banking legisla-
tion again raises the issue of that
House and its uses and purpose.
The scheme now afoot to destroy the
Banking Bill is being marshalled by
Senator Kennelly, one of the Labor
party’s leading fixers, and is said to
have the support of the Democratic
Labor Senators and of Senator
Condon Byrne, who recently followed
Mr. Gair out of the original Bukowski
branch of the party in Queensland.
If this is true and all the limping
and decrepit elders of the House of
Nobles manage to waddle, crawl or get
carried into the Chamber for the vote,
the result will be a tie—3o-30; which
means the defeat of the bill, the
president of the Senate (new knight-
hood notwithstanding) having no
casting vote. As Section 23 of the
Constitution puts it, “when the votes
are equal the question shall pass in
the negative.”
Despite a substantial majority for
the bill in the Lower House and a
strong and continuing mandate on the
banking issue, which,.in fact, put the
Government into office and nearly
wrecked the Labor party in 1949, the
Government must bow to defeat or
have recourse to the cumbersome
procedure of enforcing its mandate by
the method provided for by Section
57 of the Constitution.
This involves, where there has been
straightout rejection or unacceptable
amendment, resubmission after three
months to a Senate vote; and if the
result of that move is not satisfactory,
either acceptance of the situation or
recourse to a double-dissolution which
the Governor-General is authorised to
grant, provided expiry of the Parlia-
ment is not more than six months
away.
Then, of course, an election must
be fought with all the consequent
dislocation and expense to the country,
followed by another attempt (if
necessary) to drag the jibbing horses
or asses of the senior House to water,
a third failure to pass the bill result-
ing in a submission to a joint-sitting
of the Houses at which the combined
collection of heads is counted and the
bill passed or finally rejected on the
basis of the absolute majority of the
votes.
All these proceedings are quite out
of tune with the intention for which the
Senate was created.
That House was intended, of course,
to be the House of the States. But,
especially under the proportional-
representation system, the last of the
expedients adopted to try to make it
work on a basis in which Tasmania,
with a population of about one-
twelfth of New South Wales, has an
equal number of Senators, it has
become, and is likely to stay, the House
of Obstruction.
The Senate position will, of course,
have the attention of the Constitutional
Committee, which has been drifting
round the country like a ghost for
months hearing evidence—it is about
to sit in Queensland, which is paying
the penalty for the degradation of
Parliament by Labor during an almost
solid generation of office.
However, the Senate is scarcely likely
to be reformed while politicians have
the reforming of it, since each party
now looks on it as a safeguard against
the other side—an instrument of party-
politics which can be used to sprag the
other fellow’s wheel, if used in the right
way.
The method of constituting Upper
Houses so that they will act as a body
of elder statesmen in realms above
the sordid level of party has exercised
the minds of starry-eyed Constitutional
idealists in Australia for a century, but
they are still far from solving the
problem. The nominated House was
a failure largely because of the ageing
of members and the impossibility of
fixing a limit to membership which
would prevent undue swamping for
political purposes.
It would be more a failure now as
a system than formerly. Now that
Labor rules perennially in some of the
States, with gerrymandered electorates,
nominated Councils would inevitably
come to consist almost entirely of
members of a single party as the Senate
has in Canada, unless the Government
in office took a much broader and
unselfish view than is normal to human
nature. And this, of course, would
result in the permanent obstruction of
government as it did in Queensland
when Labor came into, power there and
was driven to the extreme of abolish-
ing the Council, which produced a
condition worse than before. Any-
body who has seen the Queensland
Parliament as it is with a single House
and as it was when it had two Houses
would vote for the bicameral system
at any cost.
The mixed-term electoral system and
proportional-representation have both
been tried along with restricted
franchises and grouped electorates in
the States, but it cannot be said that
any of them have produced non-party
houses or chambers full of Solons.
Nobody has yet found even the
germ of a solution of the problems of
two-House government. And nobody
has found a way to make the Senate do
its duty as a guardian of State rights,
or prevent it from becoming a
repository for party - voting auto-
matons.
Possibly the solution might lie in
election by State Parliaments, achieved
by the combined vote of both Houses
where two exist, plus a group voted in
for some specific term by each new
Commonwealth Parliament on the
basis of representation of each State.
Possibly appointment for staggered
periods on the vote of all Federal
members on a proportional-representa-
tion basis might work. Or perhaps
actual representation on a proportional
basis by members of those Parliaments,
or of all Parliaments on proportional-
representation of parties in the Lower
Houses, might have the germ of a
workable idea in it. Or, again, a more
closely regional system might improve
matters.
Something will have to be done
about it. At present the Senate is a
useless excrescence, either a rubber-
stamp when the Government in power
has majority in it or an obstructive
hindrance to good government when
it has not. Its voting power is limited
in the very purpose for which the States
most need its influence—to place some
check on finance as it affects regional
development and State interests.
In that matter, especially since the
amendment of the Constitution by
Section 105 A and the subsequent
taking-over by the Commonwealth of
loan responsibility, the State powers
have been deteriorating rapidly and
the trend towards unification
accelerating.
The prestige of the States, which
the Senate was intended to maintain
within the Federation, is falling, and
their sovereign powers, so incon-
gruously greater in some respects than
those of the Commonwealth, are
becoming less and less effective and
more and more of use for obstruction
of overall national government.
Perhaps it is not fully possible to
deal with the Senate question until the
Commonwealth has decided whether it
intends to curb the trend towards
unification or to reduce the powers of
the States still further and turn them
into provinces under the Canadian
system.


"LIMITED INSPECTION"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Northern Free-for-all
Queensland obviously has not lost the
technique acquired in the days of Sam
Griffith when its politicians had the repu-
tation of being the wiliest south of the
line, South America not excluded.
Vince Gair could even show some of
the earlier campaigners a point or two,
and he’ll need every trick in the box in
an election in which he will fight on a
razor edge in a number of seats and is
bound to lose those under the direct
influence of the A.W.U. and the miners
and sugar-workers.
Up-to-date, he has refused to tell any-
body when the election will be, but he
says the date will be announced when the
rolls are ready. Election has been in the
air for months, and anybody knowing
Queensland would find it difficult to
believe that the electoral - department
experts and the printers have not been
working like beavers for weeks, if not
months, past.
Gair is making a tour of the State
driving into the heads of the workers the
horrors of Communist infiltration which
bothered him not at all until recently,
despite the fact that some of his support-
ing unions and branches looked like Red
ants’ nests without the nests. When he
has completed this hegira and is sure
that the worst of the ghastly holes left
in his organisation by the Bukowski
rampage have been patched-up, he’ll no
doubt find that the rolls are in order
and will be prepared to go full-steam
ahead, and the Devil take the hindmost.
His campaign so far is a cunning one,
and is an appeal to the religious vote.
Bukowski’s counter-attack is that the Gair
party is a “group of Church fanatics.”
This, of course, is an appeal to the Left
and to the sterner Protestant vote, which
is still a power in some Queensland towns
in which religious division is looked upon
as good clean fun. Bukowski is cam-
paigning just as hard as Gair and the
Liberal-C.P. alliance is of the same mind ;
it will open its campaign on July 2
exactly where will not be determined until
Nicklin has some indication whether he
will be opposed in Landsborough.
For once the Liberal and Country
parties have a chance, in spite of the
shocking nature of the electoral subdi-
vision, which, with first past the post, has
given Labor all the advantage.
This time, first past the post and no
preference voting will work against a
divided Labor party. Even in Labor-
held seats where there is ( a ) a total
roll of around 10-12,000 and ( b ) a
majority of 2000 to 3000, the followers
of Nicklin and Morris have the thick-end
of the stick. There are perhaps a score
of seats where both Labor parties might
conceivably be defeated and in which, in
any case, two Labor factions will have to
fight each other as well as the traditional
enemy. Moreover, there are at least
seven seats which the Opposition in
recent years has found it scarcely worth
while to contest, in which the Gair-
Bukowskis must have bitter contests
between themselves if either wishes to
have a dog’s chance of office in the new
Parliament.
Lastly the fight will be dual-purpose
on Labor’s part —to win enough seats to
control the House if possible; if that
can’t be done, to win enough seats to
occupy the Opposition benches and to
have second call from the Governor if
no party or joint parties can carry on.
It promises to be a lovely scrap.
Misquoted Again
After addressing three Labor-party con-
ferences at the Queen’s Birthday weekend,
Arthur Calwell, Acting Federal Opposi-
tion-leader, got back to Melbourne in time
to read how far his audiences had opened
their mouths on their own behalf and
adroitly back-pedalled.
Between them, the South Australian,
Victorian and N. S. Wales conferences
“demanded” three months’ long-service
leave for 10 years’ service ; free medical
and dental services for all school-
children ; free medical treatment and hos-
pitalisation for patients in public wards
of public institutions and hospitals;
abolition of the means test to determine
the capacity to pay for hospital atten-
tion ; a free complete medical plan ; a
daily newspaper in every State ; and three
weeks’ leave for all workers under State
awards.
Calwell, alarmed at the possible effect
of this list on the middle-class voter, on
top of his own inflammatory speech in
Sydney, had one of his familiar brain-
waves —he had been misquoted, though
this time he called it “misinterpreted.”
“The Labor party doesn’t want to
nationalise everything or impose controls
for their own sake,” he said. “It believes
nationalisation and controls are justified
to the extent to which State ownership
or intervention is necessary to prevent
exploitation.”
To the gullible this may be less dis-
turbing than the report that “Labor will
consider nationalising insurance, banking,
shipping, broadcasting and television,”
but it is a distinction and not a difference.
The Chifley Government, of which
Calwell was such an oft-misquoted
member, once said through its leader that
it had no intention of nationalising lolly-
shops. that didn't stop it from trying
to grab the banks.
Antarctic Worries
[From Canberra}
Does the U.S. State Department request
for a Pan American air-route from South
America to Australia via Australian
Antarctica mean tacit U.S. recognition
of Australia’s claim over a vast chunk
of the Antarctic continent? This ques-
tion has been puzzling Australian diplo-
mats ever since the State Department
suggested the quid pro quo for the trans-
U.S. Qantas route proposed by Australia.
If the U.S. request does not imply
recognition, why ask Australia’s per-
mission to fly via Antarctica, which up
till now in U.S. eyes has been anybody’s
territory? Naturally Australia would
accede to the U.S. request, but more
interesting than the request itself is an
interpretation of its background.
If America has at last decided to recog-
nise our claim it has evolved a completely
new strategic outlook of the value of
Antarctica in a global war.
Only last February, during the Seato
conference in Canberra, Prime Minister
Menzies and External Affairs Minister
Casey conferred on the problem with
'U.S. Secretary of State Dulles. They told
him of fears that Russia might refuse to
vacate temporary bases on Australian
Antarctic territory which it occupies
now as parCof the Soviet contribution to
the International Geophysical Year.
Russia—like America—does not recog-
nise any claims to Antarctic territory, and
reports that Russian scientists were taking
soundings off the Antarctic shelf suggested
that Russia could be planning to build
a submarine-base at Mirny, her I.G.Y.
outpost, prompted the approach to Mr.
Dulles, who promised to consider helping
Australia if the Russians decided to sit
pat after the middle of next year.
Report—and Aftermath
[By “Ek Dum”J
The United Nations Special Committee
on the Problem of Hungary has pro-
duced a report which, after 69 meetings,
at which 111 witnesses were heard, tells
the world what the whole world knew
before it was appointed.
For some strange reason the Kadar
Government refused the committee
permission to go to Hungary, though
the committee made two attempts;
equally strangely, it refused to allow
Imre Nagy, who is said to be “detained
in Rumania,” to come from behind
the Iron Curtain to give evidence!
After that failure, which even an
Australian second-flight weather-prophet
could have forecast successfully, the
committee set out to discover the facts.
During its investigation it “consistently
sought to avoid any emotional evalua-
tion” and determined to “depict
in restrained language the situation
revealed by the evidence received.”
On this it has based a report running
to about 150,000 words divided into 17
chapters leading up to an impressive set
of conclusions which now have no force,
since for all practical purposes the
revolution is over, the dead are dead and
the 190,000 Hungarians who got out of
their country can never more return.
The committee found that the rising
in Hungary was “spontaneous” and that
it was due to “long-standing grievances
which caused resentment among the
people,” one of which was “the inferior
status of Hungary with regard to the
U.S.S.R.” They have discovered that it
wasn’t due to diabolical use by foreign
imperialists of reactionary circles.
The final finding holds an ironical laugh
—the Tunisians and Uruguayans have
agreed with the Sinhalese and the Danes
and Australians that “consideration of
the Hungarian question by the United
Nations was legally proper.”
/Nothing will, of course, be done. The
U.N. leaders have flitted to fresh
blossoms and are now negotiating dis-
armament on an apparent basis of trust


with those who savaged the Hungarians
while the U.N. devoted its attention to
the British and French “aggressors” in
the Suez zone.
Did I say nothing? Pardon. This
devastating item escaped my eye:
A shipment of 140 tons of toilet soap,
1,174,4000 z. cakes, is about to be sent from
Australia to Hungary by Unicef....
Purchased with Government and private
contributions... .the soap cost £20,000.
It will take more than £20,000-worth
of soap —soft or otherwise —to wash
away Russia’s guilt of what the U.N.’s
committee calls “massive armed inter-
vention by one Power in the territory of
anolher, with the avowed intention of
interfering in the internal affairs of the
country,” and which it says “must be, by
the Soviet Union’s own definition of
aggression, a matter of international
concern.”
It is. How the U.N. can allow the
Soviet Union to remain in the Assembly
and continue to profess to uphold the
Charter is beyond the ordinary power of
reasoning to comprehend.
Coaxing Dollars
It was not the intention, nor even the
hope, of the “Promote Victoria” mission
to the United States to return to Mel-
bourne after a few weeks of barnstorm-
ing investment-bankers and their clients
with a sheaf of prospectuses for Aus-
tralian offshoots. No immediate con-
crete results were expected. Nor were any
secured.
The private-enterprise ambassadors
did, however, achieve considerable pub-
licity for Australia in the right quarters,
particularly for the private-enterprise
States of Victoria and South Australia,
and won public attention in centres that
could not have been secured by the
Consul-Generals and trade commissioners.
The stability and, in part, imaginative
national-development programme of the
Federal Government was an important
point in the private talks of Maurice
Nathan, the leader, and this had great
significance for the U.S. businessmen,
since their investments here would be
controlled by Canberra in the matter of
dividends- and capital-repatriation. The
travellers found, however, that America
has been told very little of Australia,.
This country has been left a long last
in the race for dollar-tourists, and has
not even yet begun in the campaign for
dollar-capital, despite the sympathetic
climate Premier Bolte felt on his one-man
mission, now confirmed by Nathan’s
team.
There is no doubt, the Melbourne men
found, of the desire of American business-
leaders to diversify their interests and to
secure holdings in sound countries with
stable exchange-rates. They actually
found the Administration attempting to
encourage tourism in the Pacific, where,
at present, only three per cent, of tourist
dollars are spent. This explains the
official encouragement of hotel-building
by the U.S. Commerce Department.
What could be a big factor in promoting
the American tourist-trade in Australia
is the friendliness of our people towards
the Yanks. A preponderance of dollars
at present is spent in France, Italy, and,
to some extent, Spain, where the people
—even while they are clipping 'em —are
somewhat hostile to the Americans.
Adaminaby
The first step in the really large-scale
usage of the Snowy Mountains resources
after a decade of building and prepara-
tion has been reached with the inflow
of water into the Adaminaby Dam, the
biggest of the vast reservoirs which is
to feed the scheme —Sir Arthur Fadden
performed the inaugural ceremony on
Saturday.
Ultimately there will be several —the
smallest of them, in the Blowering
Valley, feeding-off water to the area
between the Murrumbidgee and the
Murray, thus making secure for ever as
a closer-settlement district a tract of
country which has often been parched
and drought-stricken, without power
because it has no coal, and which in
Europe would probably be carrying,
without effort, a population greater than
that of Australia.
The Adaminaby Dam itself is a
gigantic enterprise which would have
been thought inconceivable in Australia
40 years ago. It is half-a-mile thick at
the base and over 400 ft. high at the
crest. It will fill a valley to the length
of 30 miles and with an extreme width
of 10 miles. It will hold eight times as
much water as Sydney Harbor. Its
sister dam, which is to fill the lovely
Jindabyne Valley, will hold four times
as much as Sydney Harbor, and the
various ponds will be comparable in
water-capacity with the lower part of
the Harbor from Circular Quay to the
inner Heads.
All this water will ultimately flow into
irrigation channels when the enormous
£SOO-million scheme is complete. From
a tourist point of view it will turn the
Snowy Mountains into something like
the Swiss Lakes District. The water
will be used several times to generate
hydroelectricity on its way down to the
Murrumbidgee flow-level.
Some of it from the Guthega project
below the peak of Kosciusko is already
helping to turn wheels and light lamps
as far afield as Orange. Guthega, very
small potatoes in the scheme, generates
166,000 k.vv., and would have been
esteemed a giant anywhere in the
Commonwealth a generation ago. Within
a decade Snowy Mountains power will
be linked throughout the whole main
power-usage system of coastal N.S.W.
The Adaminaby Dam will not be full
for sometime. As its wall rises water
goes into it. But it is rising fast. The
great 21ft.-diameter tunnels through the
mountains, the power-houses hidden
away from H-bombs a thousand feet
under the stone are being pushed ahead
at a pace which shows that properly
managed and directed the Australian
workman can carry out such enterprises
profitably both to himself and to the
country and as quickly as similar jobs
can be done anywhere in the world.
The work, as it has been proceeding
with the careful guidance of an overall
control and the drive of American,
French, Norwegian and Australian
energy and know-how, is an inspiration
to the country and a blueprint for the
vision of the future.
Burning Down Pentridge
[From “Collins Street”]
The last time 1 was in Penlridge, the huge
prison in metropolitan Melbourne, I felt
1 was back in the days of For the Term
of His Natural Life, and I commend the
Victorian Government for its decision to
move most of the prisoners gradually out
of it. 1 also feel rather less censorious
than, perhaps, 1 should at the rather
amateurish attempts oi some inmates to
burn down the old C-division building.
1 went to report on its cleanliness, at
the invitation of the penal authorities who
had been irked by criticism by local
councillors who had complained of filth,
and who suspected that some of the coun-
cillors or their friends were interested in
subdividing a highly valuable piece of
real estate.
There was no evidence of the lice, bugs
or rats which had been reported ; the
cells were spotless ; dishes and pannikins
shone ; books and blankets neatly piled
and woodwork scrubbed. It seemed just
on as clean aS human energy could make
it, and, since cleanliness was the sole word
on my brief, my report dealt only with it.
Pentridge is, though, a terribly depres-
sing place, like, 1 suspect, most Australian
prisons, and the awful hopelessness of
life there was emphasised for me when I
saw two acquaintances in prison clothes
who winked at me as 1 walked past with
the governor of the day, but whom I have
never been able to place. Whoever they
were, since 1 have no criminal acquain-
tances of note, they deserved incarcera-
tion in better and —let us face it —more
uplifting surroundings.
A and B divisions, chiefly for long-
term prisoners, are 100 years old, of
dressed bluestone ; grim, cheerless, in-
sufficiently ventilated, of course, and
immaculate ; and D division is much the
same. C division is appalling. The cells
are not more than 44ft. wide, and the
ceilings low. There is no running water
or sewerage in the cells. It usually holds
somewhat fewer than 400 prisoners, most
of them short-time men serving the one
sentence of their lives.
Some of them are, of course, very old
offenders, and others will succumb to their
surroundings, the companionship and the
atmosphere and become, in time,
incorrigibles, too. It is inevitable that
the weak will succumb in such dispiriting
environment.
Even then the Government had an-
nounced its intention of replacing C
division ; but there were, apparently, no
votes in it. The present Bolte Cabinet
already has shifted some prisoners to
better quarters, and since Chief Secretary
Rylah has promised to gradually reduce
Pentridge in size, no doubt it will be
done promptly, since this Government —
incredibly—always seems to be looking
round for something to do.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
A NINE-O’CLOCK sight any morning
in Adelaide is the fruit-barrow being
towed along the street by a car. Elegantly
and symmetrically stacked on both sides
with a variety of fruits, its progress is,
of necessity, dead-slow. Yesterday a
trolley-bus impeded by the aforemen-
tioned had to be content with trailing
it. The business-crowd was getting rest-
less, as time was all that seemed to be
racing. Called the conductor to the
driver: “Clock her, Joe; hit her amid-
ships, and we’ll all have fruit-salad for
dinner!” —“Lorna Doone.”
❖ ♦♦♦ *l+
“Sunray”: The Sydney Symphony
Orchestra was giving its all while guest-
conductor Jorda called for more with
beckoning fingers, hushed brass with a
sweeping palm, stabbed a finger at horns
for emphasis and swept the whole
orchestra to semi-climax with his arms.
In the organ-gallery behind the stage
was a youth with a score. His head beat
time, his hands were restless and he turned
the pages without once looking at the
conductor below him. Then there came
a part where, his emotions getting the
better of him, his hands made a great
downward stab of emphasis. The
orchestra did not respond, and the
student looked up from his score and
gave Jorda a look of grave reproach.
❖ ♦>
“Metax”: At a meeting of English
experts health-rules revised to suit this
radiation-scared age were suggested—
one should keep indoors to be shielded
from cosmic rays, stop drinking milk to
limit the intake of calcium-137 and keep
away from the doctor to avoid being
X-rayed.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Yenda”: He was a very small news-
boy, and my friend wondered whether if
she tendered a two-shilling piece for a
paper, he would have change ; so, as she
proffered the florin, she asked would he
have change for it. Carefully he counted
into her hand two sixpences and four
threepences and prepared to depart. “But
I want a paper,” said my friend in be-
wilderment. He looked at her with all the
disgust of a small boy: “Well, lady,
why didn’t you say so?”
** * <
“Ace”: Readers of Perth’s evening
paper are still marvelling:
The Government has decided to build
at Albany the largest modern hospital of
its size outside the metropolitan area.
❖ ❖ *
“Maitri”: A Sydney woman with poor
eyesight was toiling up Hunter-street to
her flat in Phillip-street and fell into a
manhole in the footpath, fair on the back
of a workman. Startled and sore, he
broke out into adjectives and nouns;
she had a good vocabulary, too, and gave
back as good as she got, to the delight of
the audience gathered above. Both
calmed-down after a bit and the chap
hauled himself out of the hole and assisted
her to the pavement. Brushing the crowd
aside he took her by the arm and, leaving
the cavern to look after itself, escorted
her right to her door. Two afternoons
later, armed with a large bunch of
expensive pink carnations, he called to
inquire after her health.
*> ❖ *>
' “Acetylene”: N’Aussie at the fish-
counter: “Two plees” . . . Plop-plop on
the counter. “No, too small” . . . Plop-
plop again. “No, too beeg” ... A
disgusted look brings out the explanation:
“1 vant two feesh for two people tvice.”
*l*
“A.R.W.”: The sedate Adelaide
“Advertiser” published a picture of a
recruit seaman, on completion of his
Navy national-service course, kissing the
figurehead at the entrance to Flinders
Naval Depot; it was headed: “Sailor’s
Farewell.” It’s no doubt one of these new
techniques that seem to be creeping into
all branches of the Services.
<£♦ *>
“Wusslean”: Asked in a Melbourne
suburban court whether he really knew
the difference between baccarat and an
innocent game known as “red ace” a
police-constable backed-up his evidence
on a gaming-house charge by dealing out
a hand of baccarat. This poses interest-
ing problems. Unless a policeman has
practical knowledge of two-up, how can
he distinguish between this illegal pastime
and an innocuous game of toss-penny?
Again, can a constable confronted with
wall-drawings confidently say which are
modern art, which are harmless doodlings
and which pure pornography unless he
has made a study of art and porno-
graphies? The job grows more and more
fascinating.
d *. '
❖ ❖ ♦>
“O’Johnno”: An arrested man having
died in a night fire which destroyed the
police-cells at Hamilton (Tas.), a claim
ALTERNATIVE
“Makers of synthetic fibres had not yet
produced an ‘artificial wool’ capable of taking
the place of wool, said the Minister for
Piimary Industry, Mr. W. McMahon.”
Go north or south or east, or west,
You’ll always find that wool is best..
Its cost is of such magnitude
I often wish it weren’t so good,
So matted and so interlaced
In fabrics of such warmth and taste.
But as no present synthesis
Can foster fibres such as this
It may be a much better plan
To breed a Non-wool-wearing Man,
Who, though he make 80-peep bo-
peepish,
Will only feel a little sheepish.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


was brought by the widow against the
Attorney-General and arresting police-
constables. Mr. Justice Green has an-
nounced that the Government owes a duty
to a person imprisoned to take reasonable
care of his safety, both in the construc-
tion and supervision of cells and their
protection, since a man’s ability to look
after himself in such circumstances is
severely restricted. Now all new police-
cells erected must be of brick, even though
the police-station itself is of wood.
VV +♦«. A.
V V V
“Poppa”: He’s always been an un-
known quantity, but we were still
surprised to hear that, facing a two-
hour wait in the surgery of a dentist who
had kindly agreed to fit him in urgently,
he pulled out his exercise-books and did
his homework.
❖ ❖ ***
“Manuka”: In the first Saturday inter-
national Rugby Union game ever held
in Canberra the All Blacks overwhelmed
an A.C.T. team 40 to 8. The visitors
were by N.Z. cadets of the
Royal Military College, one of whom
came armed with a bugle which he
manned unmusically in salute at each
victory. As the A.B.s’ score climbed up
into the thirties there was a shout:
“Hey, you with the bugle! How about
giving us the ‘Last Post’?”
*> ❖ ♦>
“Apemantus”: A “Flying Inn” is
coming, to Perth Airport. Estimated
time of arrival: lunchtime or, with luck,
earlier and certainly before closing-time
on Monday, July 1. On touchdown
Perth will become the first air-terminal
in Australia legally vending fermented
and spirituous liquors across the bar, in
the lounge and with meals. Only pas-
airline officials, officers of the
Department of Civil Aviation and people
accompanying passengers or officials may
be served. Liquor is obtainable with
meals between noon and 2 p.m., from
6 to 8 p.m., for 30 minutes before arrival
or departure and for two hours after
arrival of a plane. Bar- and lounge-trade
is permitted for 30 minutes before
arrivals or departures, but for no more
than six hours after an arrival, even
though the plane should stay longer. For,
as the Temperance Union secretary said,
opposing grant of the licence: “Some
fellows are always thirsty.”
“Hewi”: Our souvenir-hunters have
been busy in Canberra. On a quick trip
there 1 wanted to see the beautiful mosaic
pictures in the National War Memorial.
1 couldn’t get in. Officials have to keep
the public away from the work because
vandals were prising the colored tiles off
the walls while the artist was putting them
on. When the Hall of Honor is finished
1 wonder how many police will be needed
to keep it intact?
♦> ♦> ♦!«
“Brick E.”: Met an acquaintance who
wasn’t feeling that all was well with the
world. A plumber, it seemed, had done
“ That's what you get for speeding — they've crashed the sound-barrier."
him dirt, messing him about with broken
promises and putting in shoddy work.
“Plumbers!” he ranted. “None of ’em
any good. In fact, nothing that starts
with ‘P’ is any good: Plumbers, poli-
ticians, publicans, policemen, public ser-
vants, prostitutes, parsons, priests—noth-
ing that starts with ‘P’.” My mate looked
thoughtful. He’s a plasterer.
<♦ ♦♦♦ <*
“Tom Trout” (London): A Bully
advert, tells me that motor-scooters are
the latest breed of steed for sheep-
rounding on a Westralian station. On the
Continent shepherds of a different kind
have also taken to them with glee—
cassocks and cowled habits flying, and
shovel-hats discarded for skid-lids, as
priests and monks scoot about the Lord’s
mustering. Their sisters-in-religion still
take a more leisurely course on push-
bikes, though power-assisted bikes con-
veying nuns are not unknown. The'
combination of medieval robes and
chromiumed teenagers’ gadabout made
me stare, but their flocks take it without
a baa!
**« *:* ►>
“Metax”: The Speck Railways
Department, after trying record-playing
on its patrons, is considering giving away
a tin of sardines with every long-distance
ticket to passenger's who aren’t impressed
by canned music.
«£«-
“Sister Ellell”: At an ex-Service
reunion someone mentioned batmen. We
—the Sisters —had three for 100 on
strength in our most palmy days. The
one I recall was allotted mess-duties ; he
had returned from the previous campaign
bomb-happy, troppo or round the bend.
Varying with his psychological disturb-
ance, the stories of his home-life were
penny-plain or tuppence-colored. One
day he was divorced, he said, ar.d would
never look favorably on a woman again.
So I said, “When was all this?” “Oh,”
he replied, “when I returned from the
M.E. I went home and caught Her in
the nick of time!”
❖ ❖ <-■
“Eureka”: A couple of workmen in a
Parramatta (N.S.W.) park were having
their lunch ; the man with the bottle of
milk was drinking it straight out of the
bottle, but the man with the bottle of beer,
believe it or not, was sucking it through a
straw.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“C.W.S.”; In Hobart ’tis a rare night
that one sees the lights on the bridge iir
a complete glittering necklace stretched
across the river. Heard tell, some time
ago, of the eastern-shore resident in the
habit of picking "up those who miss the
last bus who makes his running-costs by
betting his passengers a bob a light they
won’t be all on.
♦»* ♦»•*
“Applex”: Looking through an Ameri-
can directory of colleges and private
schools I discover that Florida has a
Riverside Abecedary and a Toddle-
In Playhouse; California boasts The
Select Academy For Little Folk and a
Kiddie Koop; Knoxville (Tennessee)
has a Peter Pai? Schoolette ; and Virginia
a Humpty Dumpty College. The. e 31 s


countless Kiddie Kampuses, Kiddie Kol-
leges and Kiddie Klubs, while Washing-
ton, D.C., has a Euclid Nursery School
and a Shucks Nursery. But what else
could you expect of the home of the
Dude-ranch and (don’t say they haven't
thought of it!) the Nude-ranch?
»!♦
“Ymar”: Horsham (Vic.) R.S.L. has
one of the few remaining buglers (B.
29/5/’57) in old-timer George Miller,
who started playing the bugle back in
1894 when he joined the Victorian
Rangers ; since the Boer War, he’s been
in demand throughout a large district for
memorial-services and soldiers’ funerals.
For the past thirty-seven years he’s been
official bugler at Horsham’s Anzac Day
ceremonies; in the last two years this
has meant playing the Last Post at four
services that day: a dawn-service, a 9 a.m.
service for Roman Catholics, an 11 a.m.
“Wash ALL OVER? How do I get INTO it?”
service for Protestants, and an afternoon
community-service.
* * * *
“Maitri”: I was giving a song-recital
to a nice full-house when suddenly there
was a noise like the cracking of a
thousand stockwhips. I nearly jumped
out of my skin: the misguided printer had
put the first part of a song on one page
and the rest on the next. Anyhow, that
was one of my audiences which wasn’t
asleep.
* ❖ ❖
Prudes are scathing
About our bathing,
But in Bermuda
It’s ruda !
N.z. O. W. W.
“Curie”: Before I knew any artists, as
I lived in small isolated towns, I thought
they would be different from the usual
run of people (taking as my example
Norman Lindsay, with whom The
Bulletin has acquainted me). I envied
their achievements and desired their com-
pany. Eventually, in a small way and
with proper humility, I took part in an
exhibition and met some artists. Their
eagerly anticipated esoteric conversation
consisted of complaints that (a) their
works were not hung together and so
spoiled by poor works near them ; or (b)
their works were all hung together ; (c)
their works were hung on a bad wall;
(d) the selection-committee dared reject
some of their pictures ; ( e ) the exhibition
was very badly arranged ; etc., etc.
“P.0.M.C.”: It’s time the gag that
women can’t drive was tempered with an
instance proving that sometimes they
can : I watched a young woman who,
following a minor adjustment to the
engine in a garage crowded with vehicles,
gently refused the mechanic’s offer to
take her biggish saloon out, threaded
her way confidently in reverse into a side-
lane 75yds. long by Bft. wide, which, still
in reverse, she negotiated straight as a
die at about 30 m.p.h. She paused before
crossing the footpath, sounded the horn,
continued into the street, changed gear
and accelerated smartly away sans roar
or screech and with a grace best described
as feminine. The mechanic, and others,
also watched with admiration.
♦Ji- *J+ ♦
, “Ybsul”: Johnno, in Repat. hospital for
running-repairs, was heard by the ward
medico cursing the machinations of one
J. Barleycorn. The m.o. proffered help
in the form of tablets that would keep
J.B. at bay ; and e2.ch day for a week
Johnno devoured several of the tablets
with no ill-effects whatever. Then, his
system replete with a -high con-
centration of the repellent, Johnno
was given two cold bottles of
beer and invited to hop into ’em.
Watched thirstily by wardmates, and
in a barrage of colorful comments, Johnno
hopped in. Hours later, when the more
violent paroxysms had passed and Johnno
was suffering from little more than a
splitting head, off-the-clock blood-
pressure and general palsy, the m.o. hap-
pened along. Looking sympathetically at
Johnno’s purple face he asked: “Well —-
never again, eh?” “You can say that
again, Doc,” said Johnno. “Never again
will I take one of those bloody pills!”
*l* ❖ +>
“Jaalmi”: “For Sale” notice in the
“Canberra Times”:
Bassinette, riding boots, size 5....
Just another family finding its feet, no
doubt.
<s►
“0.W.W.”: A cobber of mine who
keeps a self-service snack-bar, tired of
customers fingering food, intends putting
a single sandwich from a near-by pile ou
a plate with a notice by it: “The others
are all the same. Feel this, if you must
feel.”
❖ * *
“1.H.P.”: When a 30-mile limit looms
up, there’s always the tendency to ease-
off instead of conforming immediately,
so when two cops roared by I expected
the worst. But the boys ,in blue merely
zoomed into the distance. An hour
or so later I came over the brow of a
hill and there were the boys, sitting
on their motorbikes, waiting. It was a
lovely day, so I risked it. “Good-
morning,” I said as I went past. “Keep
well over to the left,” they said sternly.
A little further up a cop in a geep
leaned out as I drew level. “Watch out
as you go over the hill,” he said. Crawl-
ing now, I topped the rise and there was
a semi-trailer —moving the jail! The
escort certainly did it proud ; there were
even a couple of chaps on the back of the
trailer to see that it carried all right. The
door was shut and locked, so whether it
was inhabited or not Vas another
conjecture to add to the day’s joys.
*> * •>
“Ceg”: Tell “L.R.M.” (B. 12/6/’57)
that the job of officer-in-charge at Mac-
quarie Island of the 1958 expedition
carries, in addition to the salary of
£1403 p.a., several other worth-while
inducements: free kitting and mainten-
ance by the Commonwealth, a tax-free
regional-allowance of 12s. 6d. a day for
single men and 17s. 6d. for married men,
and, subject to the Tax Act, a zone-
allowance deduction of £l2O. Apart from
shouting the sea-lions an occasional
drink, I can’t imagine what one would
need to spend down in them there parts
. . . and it’s all nonsense to say that
many a wharfie is getting more money,
at present those gentry are having a pretty
thin time.


“Warick”: Don’t blame the poor
postie if your letters go astray. The atlas
shows two Sydneys, the second in JSlova
Scotia ; two other Manlys, one in Queens-
land and one in lowa, U.S.A.; Nova
Scotia boasts three Maitlands, while there
is another in Missouri. The name Vic-
toria has been adopted by no fewer than
eighteen towns spread over the globe,
seven in British possessions, excepting
England itself, though there is one in
Wales. There are four in the U.S.A.,
three in Africa and others in Mexico,
Venezuela, Brazil, Chile and the Argen-
tine. Hobart has been duplicated in
Indiana, U.S.A.; Adelaide has two
sisters, one in Tasmania, the other in Cape
Colony. Mail posted to Melbourne is
likely to go to Quebec or Manitoba, to
Derby County in England or to Florida,
Arkansas or Jowa in America. There are
Perths in Scotland, W.A., Tasmania, New
Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, and
also in North Dakota, U.S.A. Brisbane
is the black sheep, there being but one of
that name; but four English counties
memorialise the Duke of. Wellington,
likewise N. S. Wales, Madras, Cape
Colony, South Australia and Oklahoma.
Another Wellington is in Arapawa Island
just about fifty miles across Cook Strait
from the capital city of New Zealand.
REDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM
“A girdle has been invented which by its
shaking action has the effect of whittling the
wearer’s waist Of surplus lat as she moves.”
To the gal with a girth
Which provokes others’ mirth,
But seems in her own eyes depressing,
Whether missus or miss,
An invention like this
She regards as a boon and a blessing.
No more exercise grim.
Spending hours in the gym.,
Contending with vibrating rubber;
Using plenty of force
Heaving weight, vaulting horse;
Or in Turkish-bath melting-off blubber.
It’s as simple as'this:
All you have to do, Sis,
Is invest in this wrap-around doover.
You may eat what you wish
Of each fattening dish,
For it won’t beat this wizard remover
Of embonpoint. Mind,
It is likely you’ll find,
Though it whittle the waist to small
spaces,
You may get a surprise
By your swelling in size
In other unauthorised places!
Whether you are asleep
Or the kitchen you sweep,
So long as you’re in its constriction.
It is patent that soon
It will expertly prune
Any bulk by ingenious friction ...
Yet this well may befall:
If you’re ticklish at all,
The gentle midriff-agitations
Will cause, not a chaff,
But a strong belly-laugh
That will shake you right to your
foundations!
N.S.NV.
S. W. K.


POLITICAL POINTS
Trams out of Pitt- and Castlereagh-
streets by September? We can believe
that. But fruit-barrows, too? That’s too
hard to swallow!
• •
In the course of the barney at the
A.L.P. conference over the N. S. Wales
Governor’s pension one speaker said, “We
put our Governor there and gave him a
free hand, and we should reward him.”
If it is true that the Labor movement
now appoints Governors, what’s all this
nonsense about Attorney-General Down-
ing hurrying off to London for secret dis-
cussions with the Minister for Common-
wealth Relations?
• •
After voting with the Opposition parties
to disallow regulations under the Oil Act
—which he had helped to make law—
Duggan has now promised Queensland
University students that if the A.L.P.
wins the election it will abolish the Uni-
versity Appeals Board. When he was
Gair’s offsider a couple of months ago he
voted for the establishment of the board.
• • i- .J
Under terms stipulated by the P.M.G.,
preference in the allotment of 250,000 £1
shares in Associated Broadcasting Ser-
vices, Ltd., which is taking over stations
3SR Shepparton, 3UL Warragul and
3YB Warrnambool, had to be given tor
a limited time to residents living near
those Victorian towns. The locals took-
up the shares so enthusiastically that
there’s not much left for outsiders.
• •
Melbourne Tramway Board, now pro-
viding the worst service in memory, as
evidenced by the growing traffic-lines of
one-occupant cars, has come up with a
record this year: for the first time the
deficit tops £1 million.
Losses in recent years have shown, as
they say (in reverse) in company reports,
steady growth; £248,000; £433,000;
£713,000 and now £1,050,000.
Just to indicate that it’s no fluke,
Transport Minister Warner cheerfully
estimates next year’s deficit at £1.2
million.
• •
Are all these Labor flaps due to the
fact that the Left-wing doesn’t let the
Right-wing know what it’s doing?
• •
Eric Linklater wrote a book entitled
The House of Gair, in which he described
a menage which, behind a facade of
wealth and rectitude, harbored a pestilen-
tial swamp of intrigue. Setting was the
Scottish Highlands and the principal
character finally perished with his House
in a spectacular funeral pyre when flames
caused by a careless press photographer
engulfed the evil dwelling.
Queensland press photographers should
take due heed when handling inflammable
material.
• •
Any winter day in Canberra the A.B.C.
announces that the “temperature on the
grass at 6 a.m. was eleven degrees.”
But who ever heard of politicians or
public servants sleeping on the grass?
• •
At the N. S. Wales Country-party con-
ference a delegate complained that at the
last election the party lost six seats
because “Liberal preferences went to the
Labor candidate.” Although it is un-
fortunate that the two Opposition parties
didn’t work in closer agreement at the
1956 election the effect of three-cornered
contests on the Country party’s chances
is somewhat exaggerated. Only two seats
contested by the Country party were
decided on preferences. Of these the C.P.
man got 83 per cent, of Liberal
preferences in Dubbo and 90 per cent, in
Young.
• •
Suggested motto for the N.S.W. Hous-
ing Commission (adapted from R. G.
Casey): “Let’s lift our sites.”
• •
A party of Federal Labor M.P.s is at
present touring Red China and there’s a
suggestion from the N. S. Wales Labor
conference that Cahill’s Parliament
should send a delegation there also on a
“trade and friendship mission.” Any day
now we’ll be hearing of a Sydney City
Council decision to send a bunch of aider-
men to Peking to study housing and slum-
clearance.
• •
Victorian Liberals will give Labor-
leader Cain a run for it in Northcote at
the next Assembly elections. Usually
they concede him a walkover, but there’ll
be a Democratic Labor candidate in
Northcote next time, and the Libs, wish
they were as sure of getting Country-
party preferences as they are of those
of Cain’s former henchmen.
• •
Another feather in our Trade Depart-
ment’s cap is a written undertaking from
Japan that in the terms of the agreement
to be signed in Tokyo soon Japan will not
resort to dumping low-cost textiles and
toys on the Australian market. Depart-
mental officials have the answer for any
“honest mistakes,” too; Australia
reserves the right to invoke extraordinary
tariff-barriers at a moment’s notice.
In the Japanese negotiations great care
was taken to protect Australian manu-
facturing industries from unfair Japanese
competition, and the way details have
been worked out will ensure that no
Japanese goods are able to undercut
efficiently produced local goods. The
Government has trodden so carefully that
even inefficient Australian industries are
more likely to be swamped-out by the
local “big-boys” than the light breeze of
Japanese competition.
• •
“P.0.M.C.”: To suggest that the
P.M.G. so wastefully stocked war-
sloganed envelopes that there are still
some left twelve years after (8..19/6/’57)
is a bit unkind. Actually, a departmental
order stopped the use of these envelopes
when the war ended. A recent economy
drive, especially in stationery, has
brought the balance of old stocks into
use, obsolete slogans notwithstanding.
• •
TV-licences issued in Australia now
total 63,449, the P.M.G.’s department
announced last week. Victoria is still
holding the lead it established over
N. S. Wales during the Olympic Games.
Figures for the two States are: Victoria,
37,761 ; N. S. Wales, 25,688.
• •
Wollongong is rapidly becoming a threat
to Newcastle’s position as the second-
biggest city in N. S. Wales. In the two
years June, 1954, to June, 1956, it in-
creased its population by over 10,000 to
reach 101,420. In the same time New-
castle added fewer than 2000 to make its
tally 135,980. Outside the capitals, the
two steel cities are the only ones in Aus-
tralia to top the hundred thousand.
• •
Proceeds of wool-sales for the 11
months to May 31 totalled £447 million,
an increase of £147 million over the
corresponding period for previous finan-
cial year. Higher prices were the chief
reason for the improvement, but quanti-
ties were up, too ; 4,471,449 bales were
sold, compared with 3,883,928 bales in
the earlier period.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: The Commonwealth
Prime Ministers’ conference would be
better named the Commonwealth con-
ference., This time the Prime Ministers
of South Africa, Ceylon and New Zea-
land will be missing, but their deputies
will be there, also Harold Holt of Aus-
tralia. The Commonwealth must survive
for the sake of world peace and balance.
Also, it must have periodic gatherings—•
and, in fact, could do with some more -on
lower levels, but still wholly representa-
tive. Anyhow, why shouldn’t the next
gathering be in Canberra?
• •
“D.J.G.”: It has turned out that the
motorists who rushed the Melbourne City
Council’s all-day parking-meters (B.
29/5/’57) were taken for a ride, the
council having discovered, after the
meters had been swallowing one-and-
sixpences for a couple of weeks, that it
had no legal right to charge for parking
in the King-street area. Refunds being
impracticable, the council is said to be
considering handing over the booty
to charity.


After hedging for weeks Gair has pro-
mised to announce his election-date early
this week after conferring with ’the
Government Printer, the Justice Depart-
ment and the Electoral Office and
“having a talk with myself.” There could
still be a hitch, of course. He might talk
himself into changing his mind.
• ' •
This Minto satellite-town business is
getting ridiculous. One moment it’s oft ;
the next it’s on. Everything depends on
whether you’ve been listening to a
Government spokesman or a Housing
Commission authority. As this goes to
the printer rt’s either on or off —or
perhaps half-on, or maybe half-off.
In the meantime Housing Minister
Abe Landa is going blithely ahead in-
specting satellite towns in England.
Presumably this counts as official business
(at taxpayers’ expense) as distinct from
the private business which was given as
the primary reason for the Minister’s trip
abroad. It would be interesting to know
just what information Landa brings back
that wasn’t already available in the official
papers of the British Ministry of Housing.
When a London reporter told him of
the outcry over the Minto project he
replied that if the satellite town wasn’t
built there it would be built somewhere
else.
This seems to have evoked a plaintive
appeal from the Water Board beseeching
the Housing Commission not to build any
satellite towns anywhere until the
board has caught-up the backlog of
scores of thousands of unsewered homes
in the Sydney metropolitan area. From
its point of view money spent providing
mains to service a new town would be
sheer eccnomic waste.
• •
Fourteen-year-olds are to be admitted
to the Labor party in South Australia. In
some of the other States they’ll have to
drop the age much below that to balance
the losses in membership through expul-
sions and resignations.
• •
The U.N. Hungary Committee's report
completely blows-out Soviet claims that
Russian troops intervened at the request
of the Hungarian Government.
On October 20-21 floating bridges were
assembled at Zahony on the Hungarian-
Soviet frontier. On October 21-22 in the
neighboring areas of Rumania, Soviet
officers on leave and reserve officers speak-
ing Hungarian were recalled. On October
22 Soviet forces in Western Hungary were
observed moving towards Budapest.
The revolt did not begin until the night of
October 23 when what apparently began
as a mere demonstration at the Radio
building became a violent uprising when
the security police (A.V.H.), “already
intensely unpopular and universally hated
by their compatriots, attacked defenceless
people.” A.V.H. men opened-fire on the
crowd just after 9 p.m.; Soviet tanks
were in action in Budapest by 2 a.m.
As to the second intervention, which
involved 2500 tanks and 1000 supporting
vehicles, plus Soviet troops “from distant
regions of Central Asia,” the committee
is convinced that no invitation was issued
by Imre Nagy or (as the Russians allege)
by Kadar. Kadar, in fact, did not accede
to power until after the Russian inter-
vention.
• - •
The announcement that 26 of Sydney’s
famous barrows were to be shifted said
that the new sites were a secret. What
Sydney wants to know is how many are
in the secret.
• •
“Lobby”: If anyone started the yarn
that the Doc. might try to mediate
between Nasser and Ben Gurion (B.
19/6/’57) it was the Doc. himself. The
Israeli visit is fact. Evatt has accepted
an invitation from the Israeli Govern-
ment and hopes to drop in on Jerusalem
on his way home from Britain. The
Egyptian visit is still in the borderline
region ; Evatt was asked in London
whether he intended to call on Nasser
while in the Middle East and whether
he had anything to say to a report that
he would attempt to find a solution to
the Egypt-Israel squabble. The Doc. was
reported to have been “obviously
embarrassed,” and he refused to answer.
It’s reported, again by his friends and
enemies, that Evaft’s visit to Israel is in
the nature of an electioneering trip. His
criticism of Israel’s “act of aggression”
lost the Labor party a big swag of Jewish
votes, and the Doc. may try to win them
back by some very well-rehearsed
speeches in the home of world Jewry.
* •
Commenting on statements by (1) a
motor-industry man that he anticipated
the Federal Budget would provide for a
reduction in sales-tax on cars, the aboli-
tion of the extra threepence a gallon put
on the petrol-tax last year and the imposi-
tion of a tax on distillate used by road-
hauliers and (2) a retailer who expressed
hopes for the abolition of payroll-tax,
Acting Prime Minister Fadden said such
forecasts were mischievous. Cut it out,
Artie. You can’t stop men from
dreaming.
• ' •
“Ceg”: I’ve always had an idea that
there are many more perks attaching to
the job of M.P. than meet the eye, but
one I hadn't heard of cropped-up last
week. It seems that every member of
the Federal Parliament, no matter where
he lives, is entitled to a yearly free issue
of 20 trees and 60 shrubs from the
Government nurseries at Canberra. The
member has, however, to pay freight-
charges, which, of course, is iniquitous,
but no doubt the injustice will be rectified
before long. Some city members of long
standing must have very imposing forests
growing in the window-boxes of their
flats if they’ve conscientiously collected
their quota.
• ■ •
Cal well, on a rush see-Australia-in-a-
fortnight tour of all mainland States,
showed-up in Mt. Isa on Friday with a
sort of promise to spend at least £6O
million a year on the development of
Northern Australia, presumably depend-
ent on Labor gaining office and Arthur
becoming Treasurer. For the sake of the
north it’s to be hoped development
doesn’t have to wait on those two
contingencies.
ADDRESS UNKNOWN


PERSONAL ITEMS
Friends of Sydney-born Alan Harbury
Mann, the youngish new Chief Justice of
the Supreme Court of Papua and New
Guinea (B. 29/5/’57), congratulated him
rather doubtfully when his appointment
was announced in Canberra, fearing his
acceptance was akin to joining the
Foreign Legion. The Q.C., who was
with No. 10 Squadron in Coastal Com-
mand, hopped immediately to Canberra
to be sworn-in by the Governor-General,
and then on to Port Moresby to look
over what was before him and his family.
He came back to Melbourne delighted by
Moresby’s new look ; difficult, of course,
for people who were there during and
immediately after the war to envisage.
He was so impressed by Port Moresby’s
climate, citizens, progress and amenities
that he isn’t leaving one foot in Melbourne
but is taking all traces of the Manns to
New Guinea ; the children will go to Aus-
tralian schools from Moresby, not from
Melbourne.
There are four judges in the juris-
diction. The law-lists are not overwhelm-
ing, but the judges have to travel a good
deal by air, and must take frequent trips
to outlying islands. They sit in what
looks like the traditional red flannel and
ermine of the King’s Bench division but
is, in fact, tropicweight red material.
Although the new C.J. was not admitted
to the Bar until 1938, he had a wide
practice, chiefly in industrial property.
He is a nephew of former Victorian
Chief Justice Sir Frederick Mann.
• •
“P.A.L.” (from New Zealand): Apart
from a peerage for the Governor-General,
Sir Willoughby Norrie, there was nothing
spectacular in the N.Z. Birthday Honors
list. The G.-G. finishes his term at the
end of the year, and he and his lady have
been very popular here —friendly folk,
good mixers. The solitary knighthood
went to our recently-retired Minister of
Labor, “Big Bill” Sullivan. No Minister
of the Crown in this country has received
such glowing valedictories as Big Bill got
when he retired. When a personality and
a name become fused, so to speak, titles
pose a problem ; “Sir Big Bill” obviously
isn’t correct; but “Sir William” somehow
sounds too formal . . . C.M.G.s to Arch-
bishop Averill, former primate of New
Zealand, and G. G. Watson (well known
in legal and artistic circles). Minor orders
went, in the main, to medicos, local-body
workers and social-service people. Others
included a musician, a harbormaster, a
fire-brigade man, a racing enthusiast and
a historian. A crop of medals went to
civil servants and military men.
• •
“Collins Street”: Alan D. Mickle's
show of oils, watercolors, poems, essays,
letters from famous literary folk, and
other whatnots of a life devoted (lucky
fellow) to the arts came off very success-
fully over a 10-day showing at the Tas-
manian Tourist Bureau Gallery in
Melbourne. The Bulletin writer had
generous newspaper - space and the
exhibition was thronged, particularly in
the first week. He sold chiefly paintings
(the superior ones, curiously enough) and
only a few poems. And this seemed to
fulfil in practical terms a hint of Professor
A. R. Chisholm’s, in opening the show,
that Mickle, in his pictures, may have
found his' true metier: a bitter-sweet
reflection for a man who has been writing
for 50 years and has been painting for
only six.
PETER BLADEN —necessarily nearly a
column of him —sketched when the poet
(who now lives in Melbourne) was in
Sydney recently. Apart from his poetry,
Bulletin readers will link him at once
with “Lazy Walkabout,” run as a serial
a couple of years back —an arrestingly
original, leisurely, all-the-way entertain-
ing account of his trip per pushbike and
other means from Perth to Adelaide, set
down with his own affectionate regard for
the scene and its people.
“Maitri”: It isn’t only S.A. which honors
teachers for distinguished services to education
(B. 22/5/’57). I can name two in N.S.W. who’ve
been decorated. There’s Harry Cortis Jones,
M.A., for over 50 years a master at
Newington College and something more
than a first-rate, beloved teacher; he was, is
and will remain a tradition. The one occasion
in the year when Newington boys are allowed
to let their heads go is “Bow-tie Day,” so-called
after the collar-adornments “Phiz” (as he was
affectionately nicknamed) affected. Retired and
over 80, now, he can still give the names of
boys in cricket and football teams 40 and 50
years back, and there’s not a thing connected
with the long history of the school he can’t
put you right about.
Miss Nancy Jobson, M.8.E., M.A.,
matriculated at 13 and graduated (Melbourne
University) at 19. She’s been headmistress of
various leading girls’ schools in New Zealand and
Australia, but her life’s-work culminated when,
after her retirement from P.L.C., Pymble
(N.S.W.), she founded and ran Hopewood
House (the late Lebbeus Hordern’s home at
Darling Point, Sydney) as a finishing school.
At Hopewood House the young ladies were
not merely “finished,” they were also educated.
Today, “Job” passes her time giving lessons
by correspondence in Latin and Logic to a
few fortunate students. She' is one of the
rare folk who bother about writing “literary”
letters and is a past mistress in the art of sus-
tained intellectual conversation.
I wonder why headmasters and headmistresses
are never knighted or darned? There’s no
question as to their value in the community;
they occupy positions supported by the trappings
of dignity; they usually know how to speak
the Queen’s English (this last, perhaps, can’t
be said of all knights). Imagine the kick a
miscreant-child would get out of it if he came
by six-of-the-best from the cane of a real
live knight, even if he didn’t happen to be in
shining armor but in a sober black gown.
• •
Queensland Rugby Union lock-forward
Ken Waller has won a Shell scholarship
to Oxford University. An Arts graduate,
Waller is 22, and has been in the State
Union side for the past couple of years ;
last year he was a member of the Aus-
tralian Universities team which toured
Japan led by Australian Test-captain
Dick Tooth. Leaving in August, Waller
hopes to play for Oxford against Aus-
tralia’s Wallabies in the second match of
their coming tour of Britain on
November 9.
• •
Born in Australia (in 1904) with an
oversized base-metal spoon in his mouth,
Lyell Bryant (Bill) Robinson went to
Harrow and Cambridge, and is today a
friendly six-footer, as cheerful as you
might expect of the boss of a show like
Consolidated Zinc Corporation, which
the other day disclosed its ready funds as
£lO million cash or its equivalent.
Like his father, W.S., lately retired
from the vice-chairmanship of Consoli-
dated Zinc, Bill Robinson is an indefatig-
able worker and high-flyer around Broken
Hill, Cockle Creek, Rum Jungle, Weipa
and points farther north and west where
the thrustful companies to which he is
attached are for ever seeking fresh fields.
After Cambridge he entered the base-
metal industry in England in the
National Smelting Co., Imperial Smelting
Corp. and Zinc Corp., and grew up
within the lead-zinc world while it was
being re-established on an international
basis ; and he was actively engaged in


the formation and early growth of New
Broken Hill Consolidated in 1936.
The Robinsons are Anglo-Australians,
or international-Australians, because of
their business interests; but they stick
pretty close to the Australian soil and its
products. W. S. Robinson began as
financial editor of “The Age”; Bill’s
eldest son works for a rival international
base-metal show; his second son is in
textiles ; and a third will become an Aus-
tralian pastoralist.
• •
“Allan B.”: Shivering in bleak winds
in the middle of Victoria’s last winter
brought a C.B.E. decoration to one of
Ballarat’s councillors, Bill Roff, who was
in charge of “operation weedlift” prepar-
ing Lake Wendouree for the Olympic
Games. The lake was full of the stuff,
and only for Roff and his band of week-
end helpers the Olympic rowing events
would never have been held there. A
War I Digger and ex-Mayor of Ballarat,
Bill Roff is an animal-lover. He collected
a medal from the R.S.P.C.A. a few years
ago for rescuing a dog from one of
Ballarat’s many old mine-shafts, at great
personal risk.
• •
The Australian Police Commission,
when it visited New Zealand this year,
was particularly impressed by the new
police training-school, reckoned to be one
of the finest in the southern hemisphere.
S. T. Barnett, N.Z. Police Commissioner
and Secretary for Justice (herewith), the
man responsible for establishing the
school, look office in 1955, and has also
done a great deal to improve pay and
accommodation (barracks) for police. In
N.Z. POLICE CHIEF
his middle fifties, a barrister and solicitor,
and with a weakness for cricket and
fishing.
• •
C. W. Treasure, father of the R. E.
Treasure (B. 5/6/’57) who is interested in
the big cattle-lift by road-train from
Anna Plains station (W.A.), now breeds
stud Friesians at Cannington, but 50
years ago he came here from Scotland in
charge of five Shorthorn bulls —for Anna
Plains.
Nowadays a stockman on such a job
would hand over the cattle to the stock-
agents as soon as the ship arrived at
Fremantle; but Treasure—who had
never been outside Scotland before —had
instructions to deliver the bulls
personally at Anna Plains. He transferred
his bulls to a coastal steamer which took
them to Broome, and from there he
walked them the 130 miles to Anna
Plains ; leading them, so to speak, by
the hand.
Anyone who has ever led or driven a
single bull a few miles in settled country
will appreciate the sort of job young
Treasure took on. He arrived at the
station in due course, and handed over
the five Shorthorns in good order and
condition. It’s probable that some of the
cattle bought by his son are descendants
of these bulls.
• • .
Fanaafi Ma’ia’i recently became the
first full-blooded Polynesian woman to
obtain a Bachelor of Arts degree. She
arrived in Auckland from Samoa at the
age of 13 with only a slight knowledge
of English, and in one year went through
Standards IV, V and VI. After teaching
in New Zealand she was recalled to
Samoa, where she did similar work and
assisted in broadcasting to Samoan
schools, then returned to take her degree
at Victoria University College.
• •
Arthur William Skidmore has retired
from the Royal Agricultural Society of
N.S.W., after 35 years, during which he
has become one of the best-known men
in Australia: R.A.S. business necessarily
bringing the higher executives —for many
years Sommerville, Skidmore and Sarina,
all now retired—into contact with leaders
of all branches of primary industry and
a good cross-section of secondary in-
dustry, too.
Apart from his R.A.S. job—assistant-
secretary and accountant since 1934
“Skid” has handled a number of outside
chores of'respectable size. He was, for
instance, certifying officer for overseas
claims and accountant for requisitioned
cargoes (£55 million worth) during War
II; he has been honorary accountant
on many committees of civic import-
ance ; and he has been a good friend
to such organisations as Legacy. Born
in London 65 years ago, he took his
accountancy degree in England and came
to Australia in 1921 after seven years in
the F.M.S. service and Dutch East Indies j
in War I he handled Allies’ cargoes in 39
ships interned in Dutch East Indian ports.
He’s planning a trip to Japan, after which,
no doubt, he will look around ; a man of
his type isn’t likely to be idle for long,
and it goes without saying that he’ll be
successful at anything he takes on. But,
for all that, most people will think of him
as “Skidmore of the R.A.S.” for many
years to come. The work of Skidmore
and his colleagues over the years in
SKIDMORE OF THE R.A.S.
building-up the great organisation which
annually flowers, so to speak, in the
Easter Show, is difficult to estimate, but its
total must be colossal.
• •
“Moorapi”: A small church at Fitzroy
(Vic.) has echoed for years to the earnest
voice of Pastor Douglas Nicholls, first
aboriginal to get the preaching
the Gospel and the principles of human
relations. He has lectured throughout
Australia for many years on aboriginal
affairs, and is associated with societies
and committees which work hard for the
welfare of his race. Doug played V.F.L,
football with Fitzroy in the 1930’s and is
still connected with the club. He lives
with wife and three children in the Mel-
bourne suburb of Northcote.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 79, Rev. Leslie E. Bennett,
master of Wesley College (Sydney University)
1924 to 1943. President of the Methodist
conference in 1933.
In Melbourne, at 92, Sir William Angliss,
master-butcher and philanthropist. M.L.C. for
Southern Province (Vic.) from 1912-52, he
represented the meat-export trade at the Ottawa
Conference in 1932,
At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 74, Dr. Robert Jack,
Professor of Physics, and for the past nine
years Professor Emeritus, at Otago University.
Interested in radio in its infancy, he was the
first in Otago to send wireless messages.
At Kyrenia (Cyprus), at 93, Major-General
Sir Courtenay Manifold, Director of Medical
Services of the Australian and N.Z. Army
Corps in 1916.
In Melbourne, at 81, R. H. Gilbert, 0.8. E.,
former general-manager of Henry Berry (Aus-
tralasia), Ltd., and former chairman of the
Dried Fruits Export Board.
In Adelaide, .at 72, Percy Osborne Ellis,
managing-director lor 30 years of Ellis Caterers,
Ltd. Rotarian and social-worker.


ABORIGINALITIES
"DIG Burrawang wasn’t the only shear-
ing-shed with a tramway (“Songs
of the Blades,” B. 29/5/’57). In
the ’seventies the woolroom at Gunbar,
near Hillston (N.S.W.), had wooden rails
along which hand-trucks moved the bales
from the presses to the jib, which loaded
them on the wagons. That tramway
later figured in a favorite we-bred-’em-
tough-in-those-days yarn, according to
which one Billy Jackson, aged eight, was
resting a foot on one of the rails when
his father pushed over it a truck carrying
three bales of wool, total weight around
8001 b. Billy’s reaction was: “You
old , Dad!” - Then, fearing parental
yvrath, he rushed from the shed and lit
"How'd you like a piece of that?”
out for home, hurdling a sheep-fence
on the way. And, of course, nobody on
Gundar was really surprised when one
W. Jackson notched a V.C. in World
sVar I. —“Manamoi.”
* * * *
“Miss M.”: It is widely believed that
the spotted-bowerbird never imitates a
human voice, but friends of ours know
better. As soon as their baby daughter
begins to cry the six or seven spotties
which frequent the garden congregate
in the nearest tree and mimic her. Thus
encouraged, she is soon performing
fortissimo, and so are the birds; the
result is worse than several tyros practis-
ing the bagpipes. Any suggestion that
the baby’s noise can scarcely be classed
as human is best voiced out of hearing
of the parents ; but as feline imitations
are their star-turn the spotties probably
think she is some sort of super-cat.
* * * *
“Scotty”: The crows got at a ewe
and left her blind, but her two lambs
guided her by running on each side. The
old girl knows what to blame for her
troubles, for she panics and runs in
small circles, bleating, when she hears
the black marauders carking, and only
settles down when the lambs take up their
positions . . . Silly animals, sheep—so
they say!
* * * *
“Sanasi”: An N.S.W. shire council
blames hypoxia (“mountain sickness”)
as a possible cause of the high accident-
rate on the roads of the New England
Tableland. This is patently absurd. There
are no “mountains” in Australia —they
start at 10,000 ft. Mountain-sickness is
caused by a lack of oxygen in the air
being breathed at high altitudes by some-
one doing hard exercise. On patrol in
Central Papua I have had this dizziness
with the added factor of my feet wander-
ing aimlessly, and I once had a native
carrier go completely off his head. He
had to be handcuffed, but on arrival at
a lower altitude (7000 ft.) he completely
recovered. The Southern Cross to Pole
Star explorer (Tschiffely) in the Andes
had mountain-sickness, even while on
horseback, and made the remarkable
discovery that chewing a slice of raw
onion lessened the severity of the com-
plaint and enabled him to carry on. I
tried it and can vouch for its effectiveness,
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Fijians have bother remem-
bering and pronouncing European names,
so they usually give nicknames to the
men. The geologists are the “rock-
doctors” or “rock-inspectors.” One
round-faced professorial-looking gent.,
whose large eyes blink behind thick
glasses, is “Na lulu” (the owl). A crew-cut
fellow, whose thick, straight hair stands
about 2in. high, and looking for all the
world like one, is “Brush-head.” A
second crew-cut member of the com-
munity, who is considerably smaller than
the first, is “Brush-head Lailai.”
* * * *
“Sine Die”:-At a sitting of the Circuit
Court in North Queensland, where it
was alleged that in a wrestle outside a
dance-hall the prisoner had strangled his
adversary, the new bailiff had betrayed
no embarrassment at coping with the
archaic legal ritual for the first time. He
had roared “Oyez, Oyez, Oyez” with the
best of them. Thus, although it was
clear that he had been more than a little
interested in evidence that the prisoner
had consumed a bottle of rum before the
alleged incident, it was hardly to be
expected that he would spring to his feet
at the next adjournment and shout, “Yo-
ho, Yo-ho, Yo-ho!”
* * * *
“Ballyhoo”: When I was a child, two
abos. worked for us; Mundy and
Harrion. The woman had the top of one
of her fingers off —the marriage-rite ; it
had been chopped off. The early Roman
bridegroom had to bite his bride’s finger
off. The ring is an easier and less bloody
reason for a lifetime’s resentment.
* * * *•
“Sack”: Not for years have I seen
a mushroom in the N.S.W. South Coast
dairy-paddocks that once supplied me
with many a succulent breakfast. “It’s
the super.,” is the universal opinion as
to the absence of the fungi—“it kills the
spawn.” Lately I visited the inland
sheep-country around Grenfell. Never
had I seen mushrooms so plentiful. I
asked the reason for the glut, and was
told, “It’s the super.—brings ’em on.”
* * * *
“Motuku”: Domestic chooks work
forwards as they scratch ; peewees work
backwards. Among light litter on hard
ground their raking strokes with alternate
feet are comparatively short, with little
body-pivoting; but in loose, soft soil, or
in fairly deep loose mulch, the strokes are
much longer, with a pronounced swing of
the body from side to side. A fowl will
occasionally miss a titbit that it has
raked too far back ; the peewee, with his
reverse-technique, misses nothing.
ft * * *
“Macquarie”: Scanning the magnificent
examples of early architecture and build-
ing in the Seppelts “Homeland Series” on
Bulletin covers my bouquets go to the
foremen who ran those jobs. What




remarkable men they must have been!
Although the average medieval journey-
man was illiterate, the foreman’s educa-
tion must have been infinitely more
advanced than that of foremen on the
biggest jobs today. His duties would
have necessitated not only ability to read
and write, calculate, organise, transport
materials, manage men, plan towering
scaffolds (all pole-and-cord structures, no
matter how high) but also read plans
and specifications, and, hardest job of all,
interpret them to men who couldn’t
understand one written word or figure.
That meant they couldn't mark-off a
size from a rule or do the subtraction or
addition incidental to their work. Every-
thing, no matter how trivial, would have
had to be set-out for the tradesmen or
marked on a rod with symbols.
* * * *
“Spin”: Emus are not only strong
swimmers under necessity but they will
also apparently swim for enjoyment;
which puts them in with such odd com-
pany as the racehorse-goanna, snakes,
the dingo and the ’roo. These all swim
at times just for fun. Dingoes collect fish
left stranded by the tides on northern
W.A. beaches, and they’ll sometimes
plunge in for a dip. The goanna, of
course, runs across the surface rather
than swims. The ’roo uses it to cool him-
self in summer, as well as to trap pur-
suing dogs. I can’t think of any reason
other than the pure love of a dip that
sends a snake into the ocean. I’ve often
seen dugites coming out of the surf after
a humid night.
* * * *
“Sebak”: Maybe African bird-books
do not mention the “hippo.-bird” (B.
29/5/’57), but at least two authors have
written of a bird with similar habits,
although its affinity and meal-ticket is
the rhino. Both writers call it the “tick-
bird” and marvel at the tolerance with
which the world’s most cantankerous
beast endures the bird’s ministrations.
Alastair Scobie describes in Animal
Heaven how the birds plunge their sharp
beaks into the folds of skin on the pachy-
derm, digging out ticks so vigorously
that even such an incredibly tough hide
bleeds; while C. T. Stoneham, author
of From Hobo to Hunter, tells of his
amazement at seeing a rhino, patiently
enduring a tick-bird’s scavenging all over
his body, not even showing displeasure
or uneasiness when the bird vanished
inside the ear in its quest.
* * * *
“Siosal”: Why all this excitement (B.
29/5/’57) about black swans and other
Australian fauna being kept abroad as
“early” as the 1820’s? Bless my soul,
various feathered and furred Australians
—not to mention human natives such as
Benelong and Yemmerrawannie —had
gone into residence in Britain long before
that. I fancy that the Rev. Richard
Johnson’s “Laura Keet” (lorikeet), which
he sent to London late in 1788, was a
living specimen, and 1 do know that live
examples of certain other birds and some
few mammals exchanged countries with
the convicts during the 1790’5. Governors
were among the exporters. When John
Hunter left Sydney in 1800 he took with
him numbers of the “nondescript pro-
ducts” of New South Wales, and by the
same vessel, the store-ship Buffalo,
Governor King sent home living examples
of emus and black swans. The little
Buffalo, in fact, was a floating museum-
cum-menagerie on that occasion, and
other ships were similarly stocked in
following years.
*•* * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A platypus has been
seen in W.A.’s National Park, in the
Darling Ranges near Perth, so it looks as
if the pair of duckbills released there six
years ago have found conditions to their
liking. Brought in special containers
by air from Healesville (Vic.) in 1951,
they vanished when they left their cages
and weren’t sighted until the other day.
That suggests there must now be several
of them in the stream that runs through
the park, and some may even have
migrated to adjacent streams ; they some-
times travel considerable distances over-
land from one stream to another. This
probably occurs when one locality
becomes overpopulated, which can happen
very easily—they eat about a quarter of
their own weight in food a day, and one
reason why there aren’t more of them in
zoos is that few zoos can afford to buy
earthworms for them ; so, given a dearth
of natural enemies, they could quickly eat
a stream out and be forced to move.
'T'HE old bloke, still thinking in terms
of land-values of 30 years ago, was
quibbling at the price of the block he
was after. “Now, look, Bill,” said the
agent, “I suppose for this lino, you put
down you paid about thirty-bob a yard
—that is for eighteen square-feet.
There’s forty-three thousand five-hundred
and sixty square-feet in an acre —that’s
over three-and-a-half-thousand quid an
acre you’re willing to pay for lino,
which’ll wear out in a few years, and
yet you bellyache about a few bob an
acre for land which lasts for ever! ” Bill
forked out his deposit.—“R.H.G.”
* * * *
“Kros”: While I have long known that
old Eratosthenes, back around 220 b.c.,
had got within 20 or so miles in his calcu-
lation of the 24,680 miles which is the
modern estimate of the circumference of
the earth, I didn’t learn till recently the
ingenious method by which he’d worked
it out. Firstly, he observed that the
wells at Syene (better known today as
Aswan —where the dam is) were illumin-
ated to' their furthest depths at the
summer solstice ; hence he deduced that
on that day the sun passed exactly
through the local zenith. At the same
time, in Alexandria, he found that the
zenith distance for the sun was equal to
one-fiftieth of the circumference of a
circle —this angle therefore being equal
to the difference of latitude of the two
places. Era. concluded that the earth’s
circumference would be 50 times the dis-
tance between the two places (known to
be approx. 5000 stadia, a stadium being
520 ft.). The earth’s circumference would
thus be 250,000 stadia, or 24,660 miles.
Some later experts, however —narks, or
just plain jealous, it would seem —have
claimed there was a certain amount of
luck and accident about his estimate
working out so right. -
* * * *
“Bass”: An American naturalist inves-
tigating nocturnal wild-life in sou’-west
W.A. hit on the idea of locating the
nesting-sites of owls and collecting the
pellets which these birds disgorge. The
pellets are formed of the indigestible
particles of the birds’ prey, usually re-
gurgitated during roosting time. They’re
dry and compacted, so they can be taken
TROPHY
This is that strange pearl,
the pale and shrunken skull
of him who dived for it
through forests of blue seas,
now lolling and rolling,
smooth, bald and sightless,
on the naked breast
—once his false dream of bliss —
of the sleeping girl.
And with each breath it moves
as if the shallows where it rides
stirred to slow heaving of green waves
impelled by petulant tides.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


away for examination. Owls range over
wide areas and they’ll eat almost anything
that moves, so the pellets contain the
indestructible parts of a wide variety ’of
nocturnal fauna. As even a single hair
can provide a definite clue to an animal,
and almost invariably a piece of hard
wing could belong to only one species of
insect, scientists can state positively
what the owl has eaten. Eagles and
hawks, and possibly crows, also produce
pellets, so a fairly comprehensive picture
of a district’s small fauna can be gained
by locating the roosting-place of these
birds. Provided, of course, you can name
the original owners of those bits of fur
and bone and pieces of beetle-wing.
* * * *
“Old Crab”: The old lady had
managed canefarms and canecutters for
decades, but this year she had a larrikin
gang. A stickler for clean loading, she
jumped when she saw a couple of banana-
plants loaded with her prize Badila. The
ganger couldn’t care less: “Crikey,
Missus,” he grunted, “what’s wrong with
loading them —they’re sugar-bananas,
aren’t they?”
zf "k •i'
“Flash”: It was about a month before
the opening of the season, and I met him
tramping home from the river with a
301 b. cod, its head stuck out of a sugar-
bag. 1 remarked that it was a beauty.
“Yeah,” he replied, lugubriously, “but
I’ll get roasted. Spent so much time
landing this bloke I couldn’t get any
yabbies, and the wife specially asked me
to get some, as they’re the favorite dish
of some friends she’s having for dinner.”
Didn’t see him again until before the
opening of the duck-season. Just on
dusk he came out of a bend of the river
carrying a gun and a bagful of ducks.
Again I congratulated him. “Yeah,” he
replied gloomily, “but I suppose I’ll cop
it. The wife's got some friends home
that like cod, and the river’ll be up
tomorrow!” I’m wondering what he’ll
be after when «the duck-season opens and
the wife’s got some visiting friends who
like ducks. He’ll probably go out after
goannas.
* * * *
A GRANDSON of the optimist who
last century drove a million of red-
cedar over the Barron Falls, I have vivid
recollection of 6ft.-diameter butts meeting
the breaking-down saws with a gush of
blood-red sap, and a sawmill-wide
diffusion of scent unequalled by any tree
in the world.
But one might well hesitate to say flatly,
as “Macquarie” did (B. 15/5/’57), that
South American cedar is inferior to ours.
Cedrala braziliensis is of slightly heavier
weight than C. australis, of an equally
roseate hue, and the french-polishers find
it less porous. In 1916, with supplies of
imported wood restricted, Australian
cigar-manufacturers had to switch to
Queensland-red for boxes, and well we
remember that, to equal the color, grain
and texture of Cedrela odorata with
C. australis, plenty of culling was
necessary.
Good-luck to Mr. Stevns in his cedar-
growing venture, but he might profitably
consult Wood, by G. S. Boulger (1908),
a book “Respectfully Dedicated to the
Worshipful Company of Carpenters.”
Warning is there given that Cedrela trees
grown quickly can produce wood of pale
color.
Our national cedar has our affection,
and rightly so. Our first carpenters and
cabinetmakers found, in this strange
country, a timber that in England they
knew well as West Indian cedar; so
evolved those early chests-of-drawers and
grandma-chairs that today grace the
houses of the fortunate.
SEVENELMS.
EVANS RANGE
The blue-fleeced face looks down as 1
look up,
The white dust rises on the alpine road,
The mountain brumbies gallop down
from Bright,
The Buffalo bears its ancient painful
load.
Far off in the Greek-browed hills I hear
the cry,
Now as of old, “For the best, for the
best, for the best, oho !”
And in the night the sunburnt road-
makers’ red fires glow.
Down in Panlooks, and over the green
grass,
The ibis and the grazing horses pass.
This valley that runs up from Myrtleford,
Of which the Ovens is both slave and
lord,
This lovely length of glowing maize and
hops
And classical, crusty, golden, thick-scaled
hops
Murmurs with magpie-song, with grey
cranes’ floating call
And with the noise of the noisy river,
loveliest of all.
Between the blue knees of the Evans
Range,
The rounded alps, too huge to ever
change,
Keep a close watch on both the lonely
States
That look like strangers, though they're
border-mates.
And down the railway-line the little trike
Trolls its same melody, the one l tike
So well and long to hear and hear forever,
While the Bright goods hoots down along
the river.
On her curled, blue-bearded gods the
range rests her glance,
And down the river red-finned fishes
*dance
And spin and glide among the river-flies
And the gold dragon with his bright blue
eyes.
Across all this the willow-sallows slow
Let fall their golden leaves to earth below
And by Mulholland’s house on that red
hill
Blue blossoms in brown dust will blossom
still . . .
Ovens as always is the rich-lipped giver,
Loveliest and loneliest of all our rivers.
VICTORIA.
EVE LANGLEY.


How to show your respect
fi
Bell ’
or
*///*&*/*
ipiili
gHHH
wmgmm
I'.wMw.w.v
&*&*:*&&
.
m
WMMmm
■
v.v.w.v.
wm
'o'% V
'%V
vw.
• • -.*
m.
mm
m
f'tfm
.y///y.
m
W;
.
■ •.•:•.•.• t.v.v
Sniff it.. • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it*. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshhess
Down it .. ■ Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
BELLS
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
ft BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Lid • Distillers, Perth, Scotland • E5t.1825
Business, Robbery, Etc
Hydroelectricity and National Development
AN announcement by Supply
Minister Beale on May
26, that the Commonwealth
Government was going to sell
its half-interest in New Guinea
Resources Prospecting Co.,
Ltd., to Consolidated Zinc
Pty., Ltd., brought to many
minds further conjecture about
the future of aluminium pro-
duction in Australia and the
possibility of generating hydro-
electricity in Papua.
The New Guinea Prospect-
ing Co. was formed by the
Federal Government and the
British Aluminium Co., Ltd-
in 1950, to conduct surveys in
Papua, New Guinea and else-
where for hydroelectric power
and bauxite. The present
capital of the prospecting co.
has now been spent in carrying-
out the surveys. These had
shown that a hydroelectric
scheme could be established in
Papua of sufficient size to
support a very large aluminium
refinery, and that large
deposits of suitable - grade
bauxite were found at Gove, in
Arnhem Land, capable of
feeding a large smelter for a
long period.
Consolidated Zinc had also
recently discovered the Wei pa
River bauxite deposits on the
western side of Cape York
Peninsula.
Mr. Beale said that it was
intended to form another
company in which British
Aluminium and Consolidated
Zinc would be equal partners.
“If further surveys confirm
present expectations, the largest
mineral development in Aus-
tralia’s history could result,”
Mr. Beale added. But “costly
and exhaustive investigations
would be necessary to prove
the economic soundness of the
scheme.” A capital cost of
several hundred million pounds
was envisaged by Mr. Beale.
Aluminium and Hydro-
power
At present the world's largest
producer of aluminium is
Canada, and it, significantly,
has the highest installed hydro-
electric capacity of any country
in the world apart from the
United States.
Canada’s extensive water-
"The last time youse got me I didn't even
take a toothbrush."
power resources have been a
major factor in its economic
development—industrially and
geographically. Low-cost
hydroelectric power has
accelerated development and
exploitation of forest, mineral
and other primary resources
on a scale unmatched in any
other country in the world, and
has had a marked influence on
the industrialisation of the
country, most pronounced in
ment years.
Abundant supplies of cheap
hydro-power have in the past
fostered the establishment of
s? ssrrtszsgz
mills and non-ferrous metal-
smelters and refineries, which
together consume two-thirds of
all the power used in manufac-
turing in Canada. These
industries have tended to move
to areas in which large supplies
of electricity could be developed
alongside either the necessary
raw materials or means of
transportation. Electricity was
largely responsible for many
“single-industry towns” becom-
ing established throughout
Canada.
Power and Industry
The development of power
and establishment of industry
in Canada have to a large
extent been parallel. The basins
and waters of the tremendous
Canadian river-system include
many falls and rapids and
innumerable storage-reservoirs
either natural or capable of
economic creation by artificial
means.
The most accessible and
readily-harnessed of the power-
sites those of the settled
areas of Ontario and Quebec
were the first to be
developed. In time the Great
Lakes-St. Lawrence region of
these two provinces, where
native coal is pot available but
which abounds in many raw
materials of industry, is now
the most highly industrialised
and thickly settled part of
Canada. British Columbia is
third among the hydro-power
provinces. The economy of
B.C. was founded on its forests
and mines, and the develop-
ment of pulp and paper was
coincident with the harnessing
of water-power. But power is
now attracting more and more
industries to this area. The
Yukon is also attracting atten-
tion.
From the pronounced activity
in hydroelectric construction in
Canada during 1956, it is
evident that the general trend
is continuing vigorously. A
total of 845,000 h.p. of new
capacity was brought into
operation during the year and
the construction of additional


>l
f/v 3
Money to burn ?
Have you money to burn ? Of course not. Yet
it’s surprising how much money is lost every
year because people will take unnecessary risks.
There are those who hide notes in mat-
tresses, under carpets, or in other strange places;
and there are those who also tempt disaster by
carrying large sums with them.
The best place for money is, of course, in
the bank. There it is safe from loss by fire,
theft, and other causes and is readily available
when you want it.
A cheque account with the Bank of New
South Wales gives you the maximum conven-
ience in the safe handling of your money. You
can bank on the “Wales”.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Over 1000 branches and agencies in Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and two
branches in London.
v
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
E
a u ft N; i n s t rruTTSTT
A5718C
hydroelectric capacity is being
accelerated.
18-million Horsepower
Figures of power available
at "ordinary-six-months flow,”
which total 57 million h.p., may
be said to be conservative, as
these presently recorded water-
power resources of Canada
will permit an economic tur-
bine installation of about 74
million h.p. Also, the present
total turbine installation of 18
million h.p. indicates the
development of less than 25 per
cent, of the recorded water-
power resources of Canada.
Although extensive use of
Canada’s water-power
resources is being made at the
present time, large reserves of
potential power are still avail-
able. Also, improvements in
the technique of long-distance
transmission, including the use
of higher voltage, are bringing
additional sites within the orbit
of existing systems. In more
remote districts, water-power
will facilitate the utilisation of
mineral and other resources
and promote the establishment
of new communities ; from the
viewpoint of moving Canada’s
frontiers northward, the avail-
ability of considerable amounts
of potential power in the more
northern and at present rather
inaccessible regions of the
country is a definite advantage.
As the development of
Canada’s natural resources
proceeds, the fortunate inci-
dence of water - power in
proximity to mineral deposits,
pulpwood, and other natural
resources is becoming more
apparent.
During the present century,
the growth in the total of
hydraulic installations in
Canada has been continuous,
and the rate of growth has
tended to accelerate. In the
period 1900-1905, the average
annual increase was only 56,000
h.p., but this was stepped up
sharply in subsequent years,
largely due to improvements
in electrical transmission and
the building of large central
stations. During the period
1906-1922 inclusive, develop-
ment proceeded at a fairly
uniform rate of 150,000 h.p.
per year. As a result of the
heavier demand for electricity
during the prosperous 1920’5,
the rate of installation in-
creased appreciably in 1923 and
continued at a nearly uniform
rate of 377,000 h.p. per year
for the period 1923-1935 in-
clusive.
As large-scale hydroelectric
projects take considerable time
to complete, there is a lag
between demand and comple-
tion of construction, the former
responding quickly to general
economic conditions. When the
deniand for power fell off
during the 1930’5, projects
under way were carried to
completion, but the result of
the economic depression is
reflected in the low rate of
installation during the years
1936-1939 inclusive.
The great demand for power
for war purposes .accounts for
the high average rate of in-
crease of 481,000 h.p. a year
during the period 1940-1943
inclusive.
Few developments were
undertaken in the later war
years or in the immediate post-
war period, so that only a small
amount of new capacity came
into operation from 1944 to
1947 inclusive. However, the
results of the later post-war
programme of construction are
apparent in the amount of
growth in the years 1948 to
1956, the average rate being
about 874,000 h.p. per year.
Present programmes of ex-
pansion indicate a continuation
of this rate of growth for some
years.
In Canada, 95 per cent, of
all power for sale is generated
hydraulically, compared with
about 20 p.c. in the United
States. Domestic and com-
mercial customers pay about
a half, and industry about a
third, of the rates charged for
similar services in the‘ United
States. Power for rural areas,
because of higher transmission
costs, is dearer.
In order to make most use
of harnessed power, different
bodies generating power in
Canada “borrowing” or “sell-
ing” during peak periods have
gone hand-in-hand with long-
distance transmission. Co-
operation between systems, for
reasons of ecopomy, have
become essential. As a result,
the ratio of actual usage to
full-time capacity has risen
from 25 p.c. at the beginning
of the century to 46 p.c. in
1950, with about 50 p.c. the
estimated ratio at present.
It is calculated that the
present installed capacity, if
operated at full load., is capable
of producing energy at a rate
equal to the working-capacity
of 170 million men.
For every dollar spent on the
construction of new power-
capaeity and transmission
facilities, two dollars have gone
into the building and equipping
of new dependent manufactur-
ing plants. For every employee
on the payroll of the power-
plants, 50 have found jobs in
secondary industry.
With projects totalling about
10 million h.p. scheduled or
proposed for completion by
1965, abundant electricity will
be available, and well help to
maintain the present amazing
momentum of the Canadian
economy.
Australia, unfortunately, is
not endowed by Nature with
such an abundance of rapid-
flowing rivers and waterpower
as Canada. But the Snowy
Mountains project will, when
completed, have a greater out-
put of electricity than all the
present installed capacity of
generating-plants (thermal or
hydro) within the Common-
wealth. The planned capacity
of the Snowy scheme is of the
order of 3 million kilowatts,
which is the equivalent of 4
million horsepower.
Already the comparative
cheapness of hydro-power from
the Great Lakes scheme in
Tasmania has been responsible
for the setting-up in the island
State of such big industries as
Eletrolytic Zinc, Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills, Aus-
tralian Newsprint Mills and the


Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. Ltd.
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS HELD IN MELBOURNE ON FRIDAY, JUNE 21, 1957.
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Speaking at the Annual Meeting, Mr. C. Y. Syme, Chairman, said:
To begin, I wish to make refer-
ence to the fact that this is the first
occasion on which stockholders have
met in our new Board Room. This
room is one of the results of the
modernisation programme which has
been going on in this building for
the past two years, and which is now
nearing completion. The building
was erected by Richard Goldsbrough
1957 1956
WOOL:
Bales received into store . . .. 566,000 505,000
Number of Bales on which earn-
ings brought into account .. 567,610 472,184
Bales in store unsold 31/3/’57 97,600 99.595
Average price per lb. 9 months 80|d\ 60-Vd.
STOCK:
Number of sheep sold .. .. 5,475,000 5,250,000
Number of cattle sold .. .. 615,000 610,000
Number of pigs sold .. .. 150,000 160,000'
LAND:
Value land sold .. £4,850,000 £6,000,000
TOTAL TURNOVER:
exceeded £104,000,000 £84,000,000
in 1862 for use as a Wool Store, and
has required considerable alterations
to its internal, structure to make it
into the very satisfactory Office you
see toda*\
During the reorganisation we
discovered many last-century records
of historical value, which have been
handed to the National University,
Canberra. If any stockholder has
information, letters or records
relating to Richard Goldsbrough or
his partners, we should be very
glad if he would so advise our
Secretary.
The Balance Sheet at 31st March
shows a marked increase in the book
value of fixed assets. While a sub-
stantial portion of the increase is
due to the alterations to Sydney and
Melbourne Offices now nearing com-
pletion, much of it is due to expendi-
ture in the country districts of the
various States. Sale Yards, Offices
and Showrooms are essential, and
those needed to cope with the expan-
sion of business in developing
districts are absorbing considerable
money.
Debtors are again higher, partly
as the result of increased volume
and price of stock turnover. Wool
still to be sold was similar in
quantity but higher in value than
last year.
So far as the Profit and Loss
Account is concerned, this year’s
improved results are attributable
almost entirely to two factors —the
higher profit from our own Stations,
due to a larger clip sold at better
prices, and the marked increase in
the quantity and value of wool
handled during the year. Our sales
of 567,000 bales exceeded the
previous record year (1953-54) by
84,000 bales, and confirm the
necessity for our recent, wool store
extensions. Numbers and gross
value of live stock sales increased
slightly.
Merchandise turnover increased,
particularly during the latter half
cf the year. Our business in the
sale of pest control and animal
health products is being developed,
and these products, which are the
result of intensive research by their
manufacturers, are proving very
effective.
I refer you to the statistics set
out in the Annual Report for a
summary of the year’s achievement.
The increase in. volume of
business partly, but unfortunately
not wholly, explains rises in
expenses. Costs of supplies and
services are still rising, and this
tendency makes us apprehensive of
the effect of any fall in prices or
deterioration in seasonal conditions.
The increase in the item Land
and Payroll Tax is mainly due to
the imposition of Land Tax in New
South Wales. The Company Income
Tax is, as you know, at present 8/-
in the £, with some minor conces-
sions. However, it will be observed
from our accounts that the effec-
tive rate is nearly 10/- in the £.
The explanation is that we are
taxed on more than our true profit,
mainly because no income tax
allowance is made for depreciation
on Wool Stores and most other
buildings. I have referred before
to this unfair position, but I do
so again in the hope that the
Government will give reasonable
treatment to those who seek to
provide efficient means of handling
the wool clip—by far our most
important export.
The profit on sale of Properties
relates mainly to portion of our
Bourke Street Wool Store, which
was sold to Drug Houses of Aus-
tralia Ltd., but part, of it arises
from the sale of resting paddocks at
Homebush which were overtaken by
city development.
Turning to the Wool Market, it
will be noted that estimates of this
season’s clip have been considerably
exceeded. It now appears likely that
4,900,000 bales will be received into
Brokers’ Stores for the season —a
remarkable increase on the previous
record of 4,255,000 bales received
last season. Some part of the
increase resulted from delayed
shearing due to the Queensland
strike in 1955-56 and to a definite
swing this year to Autumn shearing
in some districts to assist lambing
and fattening. Despite some over-
length wool in the earlier sales, the
clip was the best seen for many
years in style and clean scoured
yield.
With only occasional checks,
prices at auction rose steadily from
the season’s opening in late August
until May, and then declined
towards the close. The decline has
been small in good types but has
been substantial in the prematurely
shorn wools resulting from the
reversion to normal shearing in
Queensland and from the trend to
Autumn shearing elsewhere. The
average of 80.64 d. per pound for the
11 months of this season is 30%
above that of the previous one.
The increasing use by the
Japanese people of woollen clothing
and their expanding export trade in
wool textiles, favored by cheap labor
costs, lifted their purchases of Aus-
tralian greasy wool to a record
figure, which could reach 800,000
bales by the end of the season.
This figure will make Japan second
only to the United Kingdom which,
as usual, was the leading buyer
country, taking more than last year.
France also showed an increase.
Italy expanded orders and was
dominant in the superfine spinners
field, paying many very high prices.
The United States showed little
interest, preferring to purchase
requirements in the manufactured
state from countries with lower
production costs than her own.
Our local mills took a larger
quantity than for some years past
while the other consumer countries
did not vary their smaller annual
requirements to any extent.
Both buyers and. selling brokers
were extended in handling a clip of
this magnitude and methods of
increasing the average size of lots
are under discussion.
Sales are being arranged at
Albany during the coming season
by an association of our Company
and the three other West Australian
Brokers.
On the Company’s Own Properties
seasonal conditions were satisfactory
so that sheep cut very well and we
were able to carry over shearing
some that would normally have been
disposed of earlier. Floods and
industrial troubles caused serious
delays in shearing so that some clips
represented much over 12 months’
growth;
The result of all these factors was
that the clip from our own Stations
was 27% higher than for the pre-
vious year and, of course, sold at
much better prices, thus benefiting
our profit very materially.
In the first.half of the year worms
caused considerable trouble, but
sheep are now in satisfactory order
although the dry Autumn is giving
cause for some concern. The incom-
ing clip should be good although
smaller than that of last yeaf.
Dealing with the Season generally,
the good to excessive rains referred
to in our last year’s report con-
tinued into the Spring in most
pastoral districts. The flooding and
rank growth following the heavy
early falls affected the health of
stock; worms and footrot were
unusually severe and required much
work and expense in treatment.
However, the recent dry conditions
have assisted in the alleviation of
these troubles and sheep are now
in better health than for some years.
Since the Spring, conditions have
been abnormally dry and some
districts have had record low rain-
falls, and are already experiencing
drought conditions. Unless good
falls are received soon, many areas
will have difficulty in carrying the
record numbers of stock now being
depastured, and lambing could
be very troublesome.
Rabbits are increasing in many
districts. The dry weather has
reduced mosquito numbers and this
has probably discouraged x the
spread of myxomatosis. Older
methods of control need to be
energetically pushed.
The provision of finance needed
by our clients is a matter which
calls for continual attention. Not
only must we seek to meet their
legitimate requirements, but we must
also provide the finance for our own
development. To this end we have
increased our issued share capital
and our fixed borrowings, but the
necessity for care in husbanding our
resources still remains. As at 31st
March our advances to clients were
£900,000 in excess of the high total
of the previous year. Part of the
increased demands on wool-brokers
for finance has been due to the
marked expansion in sheep
numbers and wool production, but
part of it is due to the reduction in
Bank advances to pastoralists and
farmers. The total of advances
by the Trading Banks relating to
pastoral and agricultural activities
has actually decreased during the
year 1956 in spite of the greater
need for finance arising from
increased production. Should
difficult seasonal conditions persist
it will be essential for this trend to
be reversed.
It must be recognised that during
the past twelve years seasons and
prices have been abnormally good,
and we should be prepared for
adverse changes in both directions.
Many in the industry have been
inclined to accept recent conditions
as normal, and have become less
conscious of the necessity for the
reserves of finance and fodder which
under more difficult conditions the
previous generation of graziers
strove to maintain.
Our Profit and Loss Account
shows that the amount taken by
various Governments through
Income, Land and Pay Roll Taxes
appreciably exceeds the net profit
remaining to us. This severely
handicaps the capacity of our
business to service increasing pro-
duction, and we trust that the
Federal Government will soon see
fit to abolish the increase of Income
Tax imposed last year.
The economic survey recently
issued by the Treasury states:
“There have been remarkable gains
in some branches of rural produc-
tion, notably wool, and authorities
emphasise that greater gains are
(Continued on next page )


possible.” We are pleased to see
that the survey contains a statement
as definite as the following:
“The foundations of export
success . . . are clear enough. In
the first place, positive effort to
expand exports should be directed
to those activities in which we
have the greatest advantages,
natural and other, and which
otter the greatest scope for
economical expansion.”
We have no doubt that in Aus-
traha me Wool industry above all
others offers this scope, and that
increasing world populations and
improving living standards represent
a substantial guarantee of its future.
The Board wishes to thank all of
the Staff ior their efforts during the
year, and are very pleased that out
of the recent new issue of capital it
has been possible to further increase
ihe direct interest of the Staff in the
Company’s supcess. Following the
system used for our two previous
issues of capital, the Staff Provident
Fund was again given the oppor-
tunity of taking up fractions and
unapplied-for shares. You will be
interested to know that our
Permanent Staff, through this Fund,
now own a total of £77,000 of the
Company’s capital.
During the past two years a
number of our younger senior
executives have been given the
opportunity of attending Manage-
ment Training Courses in Australia,
while four have been sent overseas.
We consider that such experience,
added to that obtained in the various
departments of our business, will
further improve the efficiency of our
Organisation.
Bell Bay aluminium-works.
Certain industries, such as the
aluminium industry, use a very
large amount of electricity, and
such industries automatically
gravitate towards sources of
cheap power —power being the
greatest element in their costs
of production,
Great interest must therefore
follow the development of the
bauxite deposits in North Aus-
tralia and the harnessing of
rivers in Papua and the
Mandated Territory. Trans-
mission of power over long
distances is not always
economic, which may mean
that new industries will spring-
up in Papua as well as in Cape
York and Arnhem Land. But,
as Minister Beale said, exhaus-
tive investigation and many
hundreds of millions of pounds
"will be involved before the
answer is finally settled.
THE OILFIELDS OF BRITAIN
[From L. Owen]
ALTHOUGH Britain has
been the object of geo-
logical studies for a couple of
centuries, the organised search
for oil there dates back only
to 1916. Then, however, the
work was backed by nearly a
century of the intensive,
detailed and highly efficient
examinations carried out by the
Geological Survey of Great
Britain and its predecessors.
The 1916 survey, also carried
out by the Geological Survey,
aided by .co-opted specialists
with oilfield experience, thus
started-off with an enviable
heritage of invaluable informa-
tion.
As a result of the survey's
work, 10 structures were
selected for test, eight in Eng-
land and two in Scotland.
Eleven wells were drilled, five
of which reached depths of
4000 ft. and more. Only one
of them Hardstoft, No. 1 —
struck oil and remained a small
producer for several years. At
its best, it averaged 10 barrels
a day of waxy, high-grade
crude. One of the Scottish
wells struck gas flowing at an
estimated 300,000 cubic ft. per
day. The total cost to the
Government was around
£500,000. The search, of
course, would not have been
undertaken had not the sub-
marine menace of the 19.14-18
war threatened the supply of
petroleum to Britain, but the
small return was disappointing.
Even before the search.
Britain had been surveyed more
thoroughly and to a greater
extent geologically than any
other corresponding area in the
world. Its geological history—
which is of paramount im-
portance in oil-finding was
known in remarkably accurate
detail.
That fact, in itself, was
probably the main deterrent to
any serious search for
petroleum in England, for the
meticulous and repeated study
at outcrop and in mine work-
ings gave little indication of
any stratum which could con-
ceivably act as a source- or
reservoir-bed for oil in com-
mercial quantities. In only a
few instances were small shows
—or even traces —of petroleum
residues observed.
Small shows of oil, and allied
substances, had long been
known to occur in Britain. In
1684, Dr. Plat described a
“liquid bitumen spring” in the
grounds of Pitchford (note the
name!) Hall in Shropshire.
There, or near by, pitch had
been worked by the Romans,
and the “liquid bitumen” was
certainly used medicinally in
medieval times. An inter-
mittent flow of oil, amounting
to from 70 to 100 gallons daily,
occurred in the Southgate
Colliery in Derbyshire, and
petroleum had been noted, in
the eighteenth century, at
Worsley, Wigan and West
Leigh in Lancashire; at
Longton in Staffordshire ; and
at Coalbrookdale in Shrop-
shire, to mention only some
localities. A tar-spring at Coal-
port (Shropshire) at one time
yielded 1000 gallons a week.
As supplies of petroleum pro-
ducts became easily available
after the war, interest in the
search for oil waned in
Britain. When, however, the
legal and administrative aspects
of oil-prospecting were simpli-
fied, and the ownership of all
undiscovered mineral oil was
vested in the Crown by the
Petroleum Production Act of
1934, fresh activity was shown.
At that time—in common
with other of my colleagues
who had had oilfield experi-
ence —I had no great faith that
British oil would ever be pro-
duced in commercial quantities,
particularly as the hoped-for
reservoir-bed was considered to
lie within the Millstone Grit
Series. This series had been
very intensely studied by many
competent geologists and very
few instances of anything
resembling petroleum residues
had been observed at outcrop.
In articles published in the
English and Continental press
at that time, I adopted an
agnostic attitude. 1 felt that
commercial oil might be found,
if at all, below the Millstone
Grit.
In the post-1934 search, the
B.P. Exploration Co., Ltd., has
been active and has drilled
several wells, many of them
located geophysically. It
achieved a near-commercial
success by discovering the
Eakring (Derbyshire) oilfield in
1939.
The company describes this
phase of the search in a beauti-
fully-produced booklet, copies
of which have recently reached
Australia. It should be read
by all interested in the search
for petroleum here. The sec-
tions, technically accurate and
clear, might well be taken as a
model to copy.
The geological conditions at
Eakring are similar—in certain
respects —to those in the Ex-
mouth Gulf area, although the
structures around the Gulf are
much more complicated. The
Eakring oil, quite definitely, is
a migrated petroleum, just as is
that at Rough Range.
While it cannot be claimed
that the return from the Derby-
shire wells—amounting to a
total of nearly a million -tons
of crude to date—is economic,
the quality of the work per-
formed has been superb.
Further, allowance must be
made from the indirect gains
arising from the geological and
geophysical researches. Valu-
able deposits of potash have
disclosed ; a new deep
coalfield has been discovered
in Lincolnshire ; and an exten-
sion of the Nottinghamshire
coalfield has been proved. In
addition, the drilling areas have
been used, with great advan-
tage, as an oil-cadet training
ground in preparation for work
on commercial oilfields and
prospects in other parts of the
world.
G. J. Coles in N.Z.
The procedure which G. J.
Coles proposes to adopt to
“simplify” its forthcoming cash
issue will, if not modified,
cause considerable inconveni-
ence to N.Z. shareholders and
their brokers.
The company has stated that
no provision will be made for
the sale of rights as such, but
that, on payment of the full
price of ss. a share, a holder
of rights will be able to obtain
a provisional letter of allot-
ment, which may be sold in
the market as an interim stock-
certificate.
N.Z. shareholders, because
of currency restrictions, or
their brokers on their behalf,
must adopt all sorts of expedi-
ents to obtain Australian
currency to take up new
Australian issues. In the
case of the Coles issue they
will have to go to the same
trouble in arranging overseas
funds, even if they simply wish
to dispose of their rights.
The difficulty would be over-
come if Coles would agree to
issue to N.Z. shareholders on
request * “nil- paid allotment-
letters.” The shareholder
would not need to pay the ss.
a share in advance in order to
realise the value of his rights.
He would simply sell his “nil-
paid provisional allotments.”
The transfer-form would be
completed by the buyers and
lodged with the company in the
normal way, together with the
price of the new shares, ss.
(Australian) each. A procedure
on these lines was successfully
used by Dalgety and Co. for
its last issue.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Claudio Arrau
As a measure of his stature,
Chilean painist Claudio Arrau
tackled a two-concerto pro-
gramme with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra guided by
Nicolai Malko and brought
the “Full House” sign out at
the Town Hall for the first time
in a few years.
It was obvious, from the
shattering entrance he made
after the first sharp
orchestral chord of Beethoven’s
“Emperor,” and the thrice-
repeated procedures which lead
to the first subject, that this
reading would take the work’s
inherent epic quality to the
last degree.
Just as this fifth and last of
the master’s concertos for his
favorite instrument was itself
born to the accompaniment of
Napoleon’s cannon in Vienna,
so is the opening movement
alive with the clang and clash
of contending forces, and the
soloist hammered his way into
the vanguard of strife with
massive chords defying the
forces against him, and with
rising chromatic runs of speed
and strength. The exuberance
and dynamism of his playing
struck a responding spark in
the orchestra, resulting in a
movement of grandeur and
energy.
The martial declamations
gave place to the lovely, hymn-
like melody of the slow move-
ment, played with the greatest
affection and poignancy as
close a glimpse into Beet-
hoven’s soul as one is ever likely
to get.
The final section, bursting
suddenly out of the reflective
four-bar bridging-passage, was
replete with drama as soloist
and orchestra swept along to
the end in a performance as
exuberant and as exciting as
one could wish to hear.
The other concerto was
Chopin’s Second, in F Minor,
a feminine counterpart to the
hard-muscled masculinity of
the Beethoven. This work is
biased heavily in favor of the
soloist and for whole pages
the orchestral background is
little more than a token accom-
paniment, but the writing for
the piano has Chopin’s own un-
mistakable hallmark on every
bar. There was romance and
poetry in the playing of it, and
the fading-away in the
diminuendo scale-passages was
effected with such beautiful
control that even the whisper-
weight pianissimos carried bell-
like clarity. Once again Malko
conjured from his forces a
precision-fine balance between
his choirs and between his full
instrument and the soloist’s.
The orchestra's own con-
tribution included the con-
temporary American Samuel
Barber’s second “Essay for
Strings,” which has a poor first-
half but a lushly harmonic
second spasm ; Schubert’s
sparkling “Rosamunde” Over-
ture ; and Berlioz's “Dance
of the .Sylphs,” and his
Hungarian March from “The
Damnation of Faust” the
latter’s sprightly measures seem-
ing to have little sympathy
with the soul-struggle which is
the core of the opera.
Two nights later Arrau gave
his first recital and chose an
exacting programme. There
was the Mozart Rondo in A
Minor, a work which *bears
practically no relation to the
host of other gay little rondos
with which the Salzburgian
liberally strewed his musical
path. This one is deeply felt
and grave, and Arrau brought
exquisite delicacy and trans-
lucency of tone to the playing.
The “Waldstein,” the first of
the Sonatas to speak in the
grander Beethoven manner,
was, as to the first and last
movements, played with the
greatest technical brilliance
and abandon ; the zestful end-
piece, in which the main sub-
ject is broken up into ingenious
variations at increasing speed,
was a tour de force.
But it was in Schumann’s
“Carnaval” that Arrau’s great
qualities manifested themselves.
Here all the drolleries, whimsies
and poetic imageries ran riot in
coruscating showers of notes,
each portrait and episode
lucidly spun and giving an over-
all picture of glowing color
and piquancy.
Although Liszt was on the
programme his “Je u x
d’Eaux” being strongly
wrought—the fireworks of the
night came from the French
school. The submarine bells of
Debussy’s “Engulfed
Cathedral” were tolled in
impressive sonorities, and in
two of. the same composer’s
preludes, with their subtle
moods and atmospheres, the
swirling technical difficulties
were swept aside as if they
didn’t exist. In the final offer-
ing, Ravel’s “Alborado del
Grazioso,” with its Spanish
rhythms and vivid tone-color,
the pianist’s hands were no
more than a blur over the
keyboard.
+{► +jt
Borovansky Ballet
Margot Fonteyn added more
cubits to her artistic stature
in her second programme at
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
“Les Sylphides” was repeated,
then the superb little pas de
deux, “Black Swan,” by
Rowena Jackson and Bryan
Ashbridge, in which the male
dancer made his entrance with
a leap which left the audience
gasping and. which couldn’t
have risen higher if it had
been taken from a springboard.
The audience was in this
high pitch of excitement when,
to the bewitching strains of
Tschaikowsky’s music, Dame
Margot glided on to the stage
in “Aurora’s Wedding” and
danced the Rose Adagio with
Michael Somes, Bryan Ash-
bridge, Vassilie Trunoff and
Kenneth Melville. Tschai-
kowsky’s music would have
been more bewitching if the
orchestra had played it better,
but there was nothing to fault
in Aurora’s dancing. Dame
Margot’s body seems to have
the ability to flow simul-
taneously in four or five direc-
tions and then come together
in a crisp and emphatic gesture
or a frozen posture which
never looks studied any more
than does the wild barbaric
whirling of Kiril Vassilk'ovsky,
Ron Paul and Desmond
Myers.
Rosemary Mildner, Jan
Melvin and Serge Bousloff
cracked a joke in Chinese and
Kathleen Gorham was worth
watching, whether she was
dancing the Blue Birds or was
one of the mob in an ensemble.
❖ ❖ *i*
Malko and Katchen
Nicolai Malko’s first pro-
gramme with the Queensland
Orchestra looked disappointing
on paper. A new conductor’s
methods are usually worth
watching closely, but this one
looked like being hidden behind
the lid of a piano for most of
the first half of the concert.
Yet, in the event, there was little
cause for fury. The concerto
was the monumental Brahms
Second with Julius Katchen as
soloist, or, it should be said,
collaborator.
Malko began with the
“Bartered Bride” Overture,
played with the utmost clarity
and attractiveness of tone,
though without some of the
breathless excitement the piece
can yield. Then the Brahms
Concerto. Youth and age
worked together most satis-
factorily. The benign Malko
drew the characteristic Brahms
mellowness from the orchestra,
softening the headlong rush of
Katchen’s athletic handling of
the piano part. In the slow
movement Katchen played
quietly rather than meditatively,
as though only too conscious
of the pianistic rigors of the
rest of the work. The big and
forceful tone he produced from
the piano was more than a
match for the orchestra, and
there was a sense of elation in
the final movement that set
the blood tingling.
Shostakovitch’s First Sym-
phony is obviously one of
Malko’s showpieces, since it
was he who first performed it.
The result was a performance
that had the stamp of authen-
ticity. This orchestra has had
opportunities in past seasons to
get to know the composer’s
oddities of style, and they
seemed to enjoy playing a
symphony he wrote when
eighteen. A blend of sheer
exuberance in the use of the
orchestra coupled with the
sophistication that marks most
of Shostakovitch’s music, it
found conductor and players
responsive to all its moods.
The beauty of the slow move-
ment succeeded best, for the
rest of the work has a rapid
alternation of full orchestral
passages and chamber-music
effects that seem startling at
first hearing. Add irrelevant
and often rude outbursts from
brass and tympani and you
have music that obviously did
not suit the mood of solemnity
in which it was heard.
Apparently it is still a terrible
risk to be funny in the concert
hall.
D. J. M.
“The Enchanted”
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre’s production of Girau-
doux’s “The Enchanted” is
further evidence of the
superiority of French theatre in
this century. The Gallic flair
for theatre-sense seems to have
commanded every character
and situation in this gentle


Save costly hand-feeding
during the drought
W
-
< e
w%zm
EXSTALL A
LYSACHT
SHEEP SELF
FEEDER
Built in heavy gauge gal-
vanized iron to give a life-
time of service. Field tested
and proved over a period
of years. Other features
include:
Sliding hinged roof for ease ii»
filling.
50 bushels capacity.
Rigid construction with heavy-
gauge sheets.
Adjustable hooks vary opening
for different grades of feed.
Swinging trough prevents
blockage.
Sloping sides prevent build-up
of feed in troughs.
Head barrier prevents strangling.
Sturdy skid base and lug for
towing.
Overall trough length, 16 feet
(8 feet each side). •
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght I Australia! Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities.
F4l
fantasy. As with Anouilh, there
is never the feeling that the
possibility of a fat Hollywood
cheque has dictated a single
situation or character. The
loyalty of these dramatists,
unlike that of some of their
British and American counter-
parts, is never divided —it is to
the theatre absolutely.
This story of a young
murderer, his subsequent ghost,
and a pantheistic young school-
ma’am whose pupils are taught
in a strange fiower-and-insect
mathematics, could never be
inflated to meet the demands
ol celluloid and its audience.
It simply must be played out
against the backdrop of the
haunted, twilit lake.
Some of the Twelfth Night
players—certainly the lovable
schoolchildren have never
been seen to better advantage
than under Joan Whalley’s
intelligent presentation of
them ; in particular, Jerry
Muir-Smith and Lionel Jones.
As with this group’s last play,
“The Way of the World,” the
sets by Quentin Hole made
some professional sets seen in
Brisbane recently seem shoddy
and uninspired.
This commentator expected
more from Elaine Cusick in
the central role of the young
schoolteacher —some extra lift
into the delicacy of the author’s
conception was never quite
forthcoming. A small flaw, and
perhaps unavoidable in a pro-
duction which at times marred
its total success as a fantasy by
an overemphasis of its comedy
and by its unmysterious
portrayal of the dead youth.
VAL VALLIS.
Artbursts
Sydney Exhibitions
Current Sydney exhibitors
include Harry Hibble at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Robert
Johnson at Anthony Horderns’
and Ralph Balsom at David
Jones’. v
Balsom expresses himself in
color and unrecognisable form
and, in the words of another
critic, “if we are to enjoy these
paintings at all we must aban-
don ourselves wholly to them
so that the waves roll through
us and we become part of the
storm. Then perhaps we may
reach the still and ineffable
centre and know a new aesthetic
pleasure.”
The present commentator,
unable to break-through to the
ineffable, departed for Anthony
Horderns’, where Johnson’s
records of Central Australia
make an impressive parade
without indicating what the
artist reaily felt about the
scenes in front of him —unless
he felt and recorded a touch
of dark drama in “Wiggleys
Waterhole,” and a moment of
spontaneous pleasure in “The
Dry Creek.”
Hibble shows a few water-
colors very much in the
manner of G. K. Townshend,
and a number of oils in which
he reveals sensitiveness both
to his subject and his paint.
This delicate feeling comes out
best in “Tree Study,” “Pas-
toral,” “The Village” and —
altogether charmingly in
“Hill Top.” He also achieves
the unusual by getting a nice
sensitivity into essays in still-
life.
♦J* ♦s*
Melbourne Exhibitions
The Melbourne exhibition of
“Sydney Painting, 1957,” might
just as aptly have been titled
“Melbourne Painting, 1957,”
or “Paris Painting, 1920,” o:
even “Paris Painting, 1914.”
When the present com-
mentator was in that art Mecca
in those years artists of every
race and all denominations
were painting pictures which
were perfect illustrations of the
various styles represented in
“Sydney Painting, 1957.” There
were surrealists like James
Gleeson, abstract-expressionists
like Paul Haefliger, “militant”
abstract - expressionists like
John / Olsen, and “regional”
expressionists like Sidney
Nolan, whose latest edition of
his favorite hero appears in
complete armor and with eyes
like a traffic-stop lights.
Nevertheless, not all the
Sydney painters, 1957, are
imitators, or imitators of
imitators —there are evidences
of individuality in Russell
Drysdale’s group of outback
figures, in Desiderius Orban’s
“Morning in Florence” and in
Donald Friend’s sketch, “Two
Negroes.”
Apart from these examples
Sydney artists, 1957, appear to
be shouting in unison with their
Melbourne brothers, 1957, the
universal credo of 20th-century
painting that color, tone and
form can exist in separation
on canvas, if not in Nature. •
An exhibition at the Koz-
minsky Gallery of original Old
Master drawings, rare prints of
early Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide and Hobart, and
original plates from John
Gould’s famous Birds of Aus-
tralia series promotes reflec-
tions.
The old prints of early Mel-
bourne may not be art in the
same sense as the Rembrandt
drawings, but they are fascinat-
ing records of something that
once existed done by faithful
craftsmen who probably would
not have thought of themselves
as artists. The Rembrandt
drawings are, of course, art,
and their value doesn’t lie in
their subject-matter but in the
livingness of the description.
One wonders in what will
*lie the interest of contemporary
Melbourne paintings the
abstractions, semi-abstractions,
expressionistic fantasies and
what not, which are being
poured out in their thousands.
They have neither the artistry
of the Rembrandts nor the
craftsmanship of the early-
Melbourne album.
Films
“Friendly Persuasion”
This delightful drop, at
Sydney Liberty, concerns a
family of Quakers whose beliefs
are stretched to breaking-point
by the strains of the American
Civil War. The film, of course,
cannot go very deeply into the


0
4
EVERY YEAR
GOVERNMENT-GUARANTEED
FOR SIX YCARS OR MORE*
THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
LOAN
• OPTIONAL TERMS. You may invest for 6, 10 or 2C
years.
O HALF-YEARLY INTEREST credited direct to your
bank account if you wish.
• TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. An Authorised Trustee
Investment in N.S.W., Queensland, Western Australia anc
Tasmania.
• AVOID EXCHANGE. Investments, interest and repay-
ment at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the
Prospectus.
• INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If you do not wish tc
make a cash investment, pay 10 per cent, on application
and the balance by 30th September, 1957.
START YOUR SAVINGS EARNING Si% TODAY
It is easy to invest applications will be received at
Any branch in Australia of:
• The Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
# Bank of New South Wales;
9 The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney
Limited;
At the Sydney Water Board offices
or throueh a Stockbroker.
The Sydnen
Watery
Board Loan
$
£
Underwritten by Ralph W. King & Yuill (Members of the
Sydney Stock Exchange), 113 Pitt Street, Grafton and Armidale.
problems of conscientious
pacifism—even Shaw couldn’t
solve that one—and,'in fact,
its moments of dramatic inten-
sity seem rather out of key with
the mood in which it idles
through lovely farm and
country landscape and quiet
domestic humor.
That humor, too, inclines to
comicality at the expense of
the Quakers and their beliefs
rather than to the very human
comedy which might have been
extracted from many of the
situations, but, allowing for
such incidental shortcomings,
the film is still a highly enter-
taining item, with the familiar
practised ease of Gary Cooper
and Dorothy McGuire in the
main roles and a good deal of
excellent acting from the sup-
porting players, including a
performance of remarkable
intensity and sensitiveness from
Anthony Perkins as the son
who has to reconcile his
religion with the necessities of
war.
❖ *l*
“The Olympic Games”
Satisfaction and disappoint-
ment break about even in this
French-made film of the
Games in Melbourne. Some of
the action-shots are superb—
particularly in the relay-races
on the track, and in the pole-
vault, high-jump and hurdling
events for both men and
women —and the tension has
been well built-up by the
cameras in some of the finals.
The swimming events, how-
ever, are all but ignored,
although they offered unlimited
scope for thrills. There are
some artistic underwater shots
of a platypus and a few un-
identifiable swimmers in action,
and there are some beautiful
dawn studies of Ballarat’s Lake
Wendouree interspersed with
curiously uninteresting and flat
rowing finals.
Sometimes the camera is
sweeping for a bird flying far
overhead while the com-
mentator is discussing an im-
minent race line-up, and by the
time the lenses have been
re-trained the race is well under
way, overlooking the fact thai
the drama of a start, or a false-
start, might be even more
dramatic than a finish.
The running-commentary is
often faintly patronising, especi-
ally as to the venue of the
Games ; the humor, especially
touching the avoirdupois of
some of the Russian women
contestants, is rather elephan-
tine.
Generally, however, the sig-
nificance of the occasion is
fairly well captured, and the
shots of the arena itself, the
crowds, the arrangements for
the competitors, their splendid
accommodation, etc., are un-
exceptionable.
At Sydney Lyceum.
*i*
“Three Brave Men”
Director Philip Dunne gets
some strong highlights in this
story of the legal struggle put
up by a U.S. Navy Office
employee, sacked because some-
one thinks he’s a security-risk ;
and, as the victim -of the lies
and rumors put about by
gossips and straightout enemies,
Ernest Borgnine acts with
notable intelligence.
Despite an element of propa-
ganda, the film presents a dis-
turbing case without hysteria,
and sentimentalism is confined
to the suspect’s family-life. The
man’s honor is completely
vindicated by events and by
the skill and persistence of his
lawyer, played with some force
by Ray Milland. At Sydney
Esquire.
♦> +J*
“You Can’t Run Away
From It”
This is a remake of “It
Happened One Night,” the
face-lift including some witty
ditties by Johnny Mercer and
a brace of tuneful songs in
praise of Texas and its red-
blooded inhabitants, who
seemingly regard *a few square-
miles as barely sufficient room
for the kid’s play-pen.
The old story of the bride
who bolts from her masterful
Pa, and her unconventional
adventures with a newshound
while the old man co-opts the
services of press, radio and
whatnot to get her back, is
mainly retained, and the humor
is kept tooting along at a brisk
bat. Jack Lemmon and June
Allyson handle the hilarities
with practised ease, and one
couldn’t ask for a more con-
vincingly tough, tall Texan
than Charles Bickford. At
Sydney State.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Beyond Mombasa”
Cornel Wilde rushes around
Darkest Africa looking for a
uranium-mine and the man
who murdered his brother ; a
shapely anthropologist (Donna
Reed) wears Christian Dior
creations and a perfect perm:
while the lions roar; and a
missionary (Leo Genn) gets
his poisoned darts mixed up
with his sermons and makes the
denouement about as silly as
could be devised. At Sydney
Victory.


Have
you made your WELL?
FQ$
dt
V
Incorporated in Victor** «a 18/1
TR53.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves £972,812
A. R. L. Wiltshire,' C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Gordon & Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
ONUS-ISSUES in 1950 (three-for-ten)
and 1954 (one-for-two) lifted
G. and G.’s ord. capital by 95 p.c., but
these were the first movements for 30
years and the sharemarket obviously
anticipates further capital gains from the
old-established co., pricing its f.-p. 3s.
ords. at 19s. 6d. to return 4.6 p.c. from
an 18| p.c. div. The ords., which rank
equally with the co.’s ss. 8 p.c. prefs. for
return of capital, have a net tangible
backing (parent’s accounts only) of
10s. 2d. The prefs. recently changed
hands at 6s. 6d. to give a yield of 6.3 p.c.
Growing from a partnership formed
104 years ago in Melbourne. G. and G.
now controls the largest organisation of
its kind in Australia. Importer of books,
newsprint and other papers, periodicals,
printers’ requisites and printing-
machinery, the co. also exports local and
imported publications to South-east Asia
and is active in the wholesale-newsagency
and advertising fields. The distribution of
Australian publications is a major func-
tion of the large magazine department.
A one-for-three par issue, following the
1954 bonus-distribution, took paid
capital to £1,399,549, of which £lOO,OOO
carries a fixed 8 p.c.
Over the last decade ord. divs. have
averaged 20i p.c., and although div.
requirements were substantially increased
by the bonus-issues a high earning-rate
has enabled the bulk of the co.’s expan-
sion to be financed from retained earnings.
Turnover was limited by import-
restrictions last term, particularly in the
case of paper, and as a result higher
operating expenses and freight-charges
could not be fully absorbed. Profit-
margins appear to have improved, how-
ever, gross earnings increasing by
£24,946 to £1,776,976 despite a smail drop
in turnover (undisclosed). Divs. from
the New Zealand subsidiary were worth
more, too (up £4960 at £63,240), but
expenses, £41,569 higher at £1,314,583,
more than offset these gains, net profit for
the year to March 31 last slipping by
£8943 to £331,029 after a smaller pro-
vision for taxation (down £13,095 at
£186,000) and an extra £3376 for depreci-
ation (£29,772). Subsidiary earnings are
included only to the extent of divs.
received, net earnings of the main subsi-
diary (New Zealand) for the year to
January 31, 1957, amounting to
£NZ97,324, an improvement of
£NZBSO2:
Parent Only.
Year f Dividends ——,
Ended Ret Pret'. To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
1952 ..227,795 8000 29 130,000 89,795 693,190
1953 ..182,579 8000 224 146,250 28,329 721,519
From stock reserve, £275,000 .. 996,519
From bad debts reserve, £43,000 .. 1,039,519
From tax reserve, £56,263 . . . . 1,095,782
Revaluation reserve, £325,000 . . 1,420,782
1954 ..299,245 8000 25 162,500 128,745 1,549,527
From provisions, £10,883 .. .. 1,560,410
Reserves capitalised, £325,000 . . 1,235,410
1955 ..310,661 8000 18$ 238,244 64,417 1,299,827
1956 ..339,972 8000 18$ 238,250 93,721 1,393,548
Tax overprovided, £5206 .. .. 1,398,754
1957 ..331,029 8000 18$ 238,250 84,779 1,483,533
The ord. div., unaltered at 18| p.c., was
comfortably covered, earnings, after
deducting the pref. div., equalling 24.8
p.c. on ord. «apital compared with 26.1
p.c. and 23.2 p.c. in the two preceding
years and, on a smaller capital, 44.8 p.c.
and 29.3 p.c. back to 1953. On total
shareholders' funds the return was 11.4
p.c.
Capital-expenditure over the last few
years has mostly gone into freeholds, and
last term saw the completion of new
warehouses in Perth and Brisbane while
a start was made on premises in Laun-
ceston, Hobart and Townsville, the book-
value of fixed assets increasing by a net
£314,275. Freeholds are in the accounts
at 1954 valuation or subsequent cost less
depreciation:
Parent Only.
195.5. -10.56. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,399,549 £1,399,540 £1,399,519
Reserves .. .. 1,299,827 1,393,54 S 1,483,535
Creditors .. .. 832,848 861,621 858,900
Tax reserve .. 284,979 200,426 381,219
Final diva. .. 123,125 123,125 123,125
£3,940,328 £3,978,269 £4,246,326
Freeholds .. ■ 703,448 809,995 1,091,152
Plant, etc. .. 77,692 74,541 106,759
Shares subsid. .. 336,785 336,785 338,785
Stock . . .. 914,768 1,024,438 1,082,187
Book debts .. 1,352,540 1,47.5,109 1,362,816
Cash, etc.'. . .. 555,095 258,301 264,627
£3,940,328 £3,978,269 £4,246,326
Sale of the old Perth property and of
land purchased previously in Sydney pro-
vided part of the liquid funds needed for
the building programme and further funds
will be available when the recently-
vacated Brisbane premises are sold. By
the end of the term book-debts were down
by 7.6 p.c., and, although stocks were a
little larger, capital expenditure had left
working capital £226,290 lower at (a still
sizeable) £1,346,386.
While the co.’s import-quota of paper
is stated to be insufficient to satisfy
demand a greater quantity of imported
goods, including printing-machinery, will
be available in the current term and the
degree to which costs and expenses' can
be kept in check may well be the more
important factor influencing earnings.
Holeproof, Ltd.
nrERMS and conditions on which the
Holeproof group will be reformed
under a single holding co. have not yet
been made public. As the proposal was
outlined to shareholders in April they
will be asked to exchange their scrip in
Holeproof, Ltd., and the partly owned
subsidiary Holeproof (N.S.W.), Ltd., for
shares in a company to be formed. If
carried out the arrangement will enable
the existing capital-structure (which in-‘
eludes four lots of prefs.) to be tidied-
up and simplify the task of administra-
tion. It will also provide shareholders in
the N.S.W. co. with a much wider market
for their investment than they have now.
Paid capital of the parent at December
31 last was £1,791,493 in 27,685 8 p.c.


first prefs., 50,000 6 p.c. seconds and
410,000 5 p.c. thirds, all of £1 each and
cumulative as to dividends, and 5,215,232
ss. ordinaries. On August 31 Holeproof
(N.S.W.) had a subscribed capital of
£467,762, of which £150,000 was in £1
prefs., carrying a fixed cumulative 6 p.c.
with the right to participate to 7 p.c. with
the ords.
The Sydney co. was set-up in the
’thirties at about the same time as the
parent entered into an agreement with
the Holeproof Hosiery and Luxite com-
panies in America for help in technical
matters and the use of their brands in the
Australian market. The public didn't
come in until 1949, when 75,000 £1 5 p.c.
prefs. were issued. In payment for assets
taken over, including the sales-franchise
for the group’s products—hosiery,
lingerie, socks, shirts, underwear, knitted-
outerwear and sportswear —in N.S.W.
and Queensland, Holeproof, Ltd., re-
ceived £llO,OOO of ord. capital.
The co. manufactures on its own
account in a modern factory at Rydalmere
(near Parramatta), and acts as landlord
and manager for the N.S.W. branch of
Holeproof Apparel, Ltd. Last year, to
bring all the N.S.W. activities
together under one roof extensions were
made to the Rydalmere mill and the
apparel offshoot was transferred there
from West Ryde.
During the term the co. benefited from
shortages of imported goods and, after
making bigger provisions for depreciation
and taxation, wrote its net profit £1455
better at £54,919. The div. was held at
8 p.c.
Allowing for the public’s share
(£24,394) of the figure, and including the
results of the rest of the group (the
parent and subsidiaries Holeproof
Apparel, Ltd., and Australian Knitting
Mills-, Ltd.) in full, consolidated net profit
showed an improvement of £39,624, but
it was still £20,360 short of the £156,095
needed to pay the pref. divs. and 10 p.c.
cn the ords.:
Holeproof and SuDsimAßiES.f
f Dividends Nominal
t Pref. x Ord. Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 6 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
’51.. 130,316 2215 3000 13,000 24,926 413,277
Added reserves, £584 .. .. .. 413,816
8 p.c.
’52.. 88,787 2215 3000 15,500 .41,120 440,813
To contingencies, £30,000 ~ .. 410,813
Added reserves, ££752.. .. .. 413,565
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. .. 423,565
124 p.c.
’53.. 170,047 2215 3000 18,000 66,020 504.377
From contingencies, £15,500 .. .. 519,877
Assets-revaluation reserve, £360,000.. 869,877
Reserves capitalised, £195,000 .. 674,877
Less reserve adjustment, £1244 .. 673,633
’54.. 228,912 2215 3000 20,500 71,339 805,491
Surplus absorption A.K.M., £228,6141,034,105
10 p.c.
’55.. 96,111 2215 3000 20,500 129,818 974,683
Profit sale assets, £44,065 .. .. 1,018,748
’56.. 135,735 2215 3000 20,500 130,380 998,388
* Subject to intangibles, £21,352 at 31/12/’SG.
t After deducting outside shareholders’ interests.
Main source of the difficulties last year,
as in 1955, was in the A.K.M. sector of
the business. With the aim of widening
the scope of its operations Holeproof
paid £512,250 in its own ord. scrip for
the co. early in 1953. Some of A.K.M.’s
manufactures have been dropped and
the rest transferred to Holeproof’s mills
at Box Hill and Ringwood (Vic.).
Reorganisation of the business has turned-
out to be a bigger job than was antici-
pated. Last year, because of higher
working-costs incurred, the co. made a
trading loss of £107,000. In the previous
11 months trading resulted in a loss of
£137,000.
Against this it could see a realised
profit of £44,065 from the sale during the
year of part of the Richmond mill. The
rest of the property was put up for
auction-sale last month.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the con-
solidation :
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £487,685 £487.685 £487,685
Old 780,851 1,302,185 1,303,808
Reserves . . .. 805,491 974,683 998,388
Outside interests.. 205,747 292,358 299,201
Mortgages.. .. 272,661 358,228 383,504
Overdraft .._ .. 551,718 200,178
Creditors .. .. 481,136 604,921 644,880
Inter-co. su^Dense.. 276,352 302,882 105,148
Tax reserves* .. 521,068 513,271 540,159
Final divs. . . 78,132 104,352 124,444
£3,904,143 £5,492,283 £5,087,395
Freehold, plant, etc. 1,740,930 2,414,732 2,471,647
Shares other cos. 4,075 8,085 275
Stocks .. .. 1,400,618 2,521,343 1,983,332
Debtors ~ .. 270,563 458,652 432,845
Cash .. .. 466,605 68,119 177,944
Goodwill, etc. .. 21,352 21,352 21,352
£3,904,143 £5,492,283 £5,087,395
* Includes provision for contingencies, etc.
Stocks were lightened £538,011, £351,540
was clipped off the overdraft and an
extra £109,825 held in cash. Net addition
to the book-value of fixed assets was
£49,105.
On latest quotes of 6s. sd. and ss. 6d. for
the f.-p. ss. ords. of parent and N.S.W.
offshoot, respectively, the sharemarket
considers the terms will favor Holeproof,
Ltd., shareholders in the coming recon-
struction. Net tangible asset cover for
the Holeproof ords. is Bs. 9d. ; for the
Holeproof (N.S.W.) scrip 7s. 6d.
South Australian Brewing Co., Ltd.
TTEACTION to the increase in excise
on beer (it went up 2s. Bd. a gallon
to 9s. lOd. a gallon) has been sharper
perhaps than Canberra anticipated when
it decided on the levy last year. On such
occasions in the past, rather than go
without their booze drinkers have been
willing to dig deeper into their pockets ;
but, in the first 12 months following the
latest duty-rise, beer-output in Australia
fell 16.2-million gallons to 222.3-million
gallons. The year before that produc-
tion had increased by 11.7-million
gallons.
In South Australia, where this
brewer has a strong hold on the trade,
thirsts weren’t as great for another
reason: the cool weather experienced
last summer. The co. doesn’t disclose
the extent of the drop in sales except to
say that it was “significant,” and that
it has been necessary to reorganise
production at the West End and South-
wark breweries. Since war-time controls
were lifted expenditure both at this end
of the business and on the hotel proper-
ties has been geared to the requirements
of a steadily-increasing population. To
finance the expansion shareholders and
employees have put up £1,135,078 of
fresh capital at par (1950, 1953 and
1955). Immediately following the last
issue the co. revalued its assets and
proceeded to hand out £1,083,120 of
bonus scrip on the basis of three for five
held. A 7 \ p.c. div. was paid that year
(reduced from 10 p.c. in 1955); on capital
before the gift it was worth 12 p.c.
Last term the 1\ p.c. distribution was
repeated, with a margin of £24,613:
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. serves. serves.
£ £ & £/
1950. . 92,270 10 p.c. = 72,208 20,062 465,627
, Inner reserves disclosed, £194,681 .. 660,308
1951. .133,387 10 p.c. = 108,312 25,075 685,383
1952. .127,944 10 „ ~108,312 19,632 705,015
To staff fund, £10,895 .. .. 694,120
1953. .147,422 10 p.c. = 108,312 39,110 733,230
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 723,230
1954. .180,945 10 p.c. = 144,941 36,004 759,234
1955. 10 „ ~146,944 57,705 816,939
Added reserves, £1,416,618 .. .. 2,233,557
Reserves capitalised, £1,083,120 .. 1,150,437
1956. .256,390 74 p.c. = 219,774 36,616 1,187,053
1957. .244,638 71 „,, 220,025 24,613 1,211,666
The fact that net earnings were down
only £11,752 suggests, among other
things, that depreciation on working
assets (not revealed in the public accounts)
hasn’t been skimped in the past.
In the current term the immediate
emphasis will be on the production of
bottled beer at the Southwark brewery,
where a second modern bottling-unit has
been installed. New brewing plant is
also to be provided at West End which
will enable the co. to met its draught-
beer requirements for some years to
come. To take care of “possible future
expansion” 45 acres of land has been
bought at Salisbury South.
Installation of the new bottling-
machinery and completion of improve-
ments to 76 of the co.’s hotels (involving
122 separate contracts) show up in the
addition of £374,367 net to the book-
value of freeholds and plant:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,470,415 £2,930,328 £2,938,545
Reserves .. .. 816,939 1,187,053 1,211,666
Deposits .. .. 150,000
Overdraft .. .. 71,787 75,897
Creditors*.. .. 924,804 730,068 795,959
Staff fund.. '.. 25,000 25,000 25,000
Final div 73,521 109,557 110,138
£3,382,466 £4,982,336 £5,307,205
Freeholds.. .. 1,431,540 2,664,214 ' 2,898,561
Plant, etc. .. 951,191 1,168,886 1,308,906
Shares subsid. .. 17,000 17,000 17,000
Shares othei cos... 19,809 19,809 24,465
Stocks .. .. 494,734 515,094 534,632
Debtors .. .. 420,279 452,532 478,030
Advances, etc. .. 46,533 46,856 45,136
Cash .. .. 1.350 97,945 475
413,382,466 £4,982,336 £5,307,205
* Includes tax provision.
To help meet the outlay on fixed assets,
add £19,538 to stocks and £25,498 to
book-debts the co. drew on its cash
holding for £97,470, borrowed £150,000
on call and £75,897 from the bank and
increased the amount due under sundry
creditors and accrued liabilities (tax pro-
vision, etc.) by £65,891.
At Bs. the ss. shares return 4.7 p.c.
on a 1\ p.c. div. basis. Net tangibles
amount to 7s. Id. a share.
Cottee’s Passiona, Ltd*.
TUMPING by 21.3 p.c. last term, the net
** earnings claimed by Cottee’s
Passiona, Ltd., have almost trebled since
scrip in the co. was first listed less than
five years ago.
Formed in 1927, to take over an exist-
ing business, the company manufactures
and distributes cordials, jams, jellies,
essences and various other grocery and
confectionery lines. Despite its name, the


DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
« a
<
* *
i
+
*■ *
g W& ■ |
uil assigns rati ■
jsssms
■HI ■» ■■■ fl
i van rat ■■ »
MB
a;
SKTsaiH
fans
A FINANCIAL *
BULWARK.
for thousands
of Australians
FOR ALL CLASSES
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
AND PERSONAL
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO.
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H. Phillips, Esq.;
T. Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq.;
S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
X
UAL
01
ATER
WATER SOFTENERS
For the home
In Industry
In Hard Water Areas
# Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
© Manufacturing Processes.
# Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
© Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
FiITRiTE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. 6. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
co. doesn’t manufacture Pas-
siona, although it sponsored,
and holds a substantial share-
interest in, the franchised cos.
which bottle and aerate Pas-
siona and other Cottee’s fruit-
juices. Headquarters are in
Sydney and there are factories
in all mainland capitals.
Of the £250,000 ord. capital,
.£85,000 has come from bonus-
issues the last of which was in
1953 when 65,000 £1 ords.
were distributed, 13 for every
17 shares held. Redeemable 5
p.c. prefs., held by the A.M.P.
Society and redeemed in annual
instalments of £5OOO, add
another £60,000 to paid capital.
Although the ord. div.-rate has
been maintained at 15 p.c. since
the scrip was listed (with a
1 p.c. bonus added in 1954)
reserves have been accumulated
at a brisk rate, and over the
last three years funds provided
by retained earnings have been
well in excess of the £96,700
of new capital raised over the
same period.
Cottee’s has expanded rapidly
in the last decade, modern
plant and the growth in turn-
over helping to keep costs
under control. Strong competi-
tion was experienced last term
(to March 31, ’57) but once
again the board was able to
report higher sales and earnings
while divs. from the bottling
cos. increased by £1825 to
£4566. After providing an un-
altered £67,000 for taxation and
£26,235 (up £3827) for depre-
ciation, net profit for the
term -was £17,702 higher at
£100,777:
,-—Dividends
. Prefs.
5 & 8 Re-
Hch.,Prft. p.c. , Old. serves.
£ £ £ £
Revaluation assets, £65,000. 157,896
Reserves capitalised £65,000. 92,896
’53.. 34,961 3514 15 = 22,500 101,843
’54.. 43,893 3514 16 = 24,000 118,222
’55.. 61,727 3514 15 = 30,000 146,435
5 p.c.
’56.. 83,075 3250 15 = 35,165 191.095
’57..100,777 3112 15 = 37,500 251,260
Dividends, including an un-
changed 15 p.c. ord. div., took
only a shade over 40 p.c. of
the profit, which covered the
pref. div. and 39 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 34.1,
29.1, 26.9 and 20.9 p.c. back
to 1953.
Stocks increased at a faster
rate last term (up £29,776 or
12.5 p.c.) but despite the higher
turhover there was a small drop
in debtors, down £12,045:
Paid capital— 1956. 1957.
Pref £65,000 £60,000
Ord 250,000 250,000
Reserves .. .. 191,095 251,260
Mortgage .. .. 33,184 31,700
Overdraft .. .. 52,954 26,886
Creditors .. .. 112,150 118.853
Tax provision .. 117,658 133,856
Final div. .. .. 26,625 20,500
£848,666 £899,055
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 203,047 207,179
P, lant - etc 177,183 208,305
Shares in franchised
Oi co , s - •• •• 15,850 15,851
•• .. 238,419 268,195
Debtors, .. 209,479 197,434
Cash, etc. .. .. 4,388 2,091
£848,666 £899,055
Expansion and modernisation
of the co.’s manufacturing and
distributing facilities con-
tinued during the year and the
book-value of fixed assets (cost
less depreciation, with the
exception of a major freehold
revalued in 1952) increased by
£34,954. The overdraft, cut
sharply in the preceding term,
was further reduced (down
£26,068) ; there was another
small reduction in the mortgage
loan (down £1484) and £5OOO
of the redeemable pref. capital
was returned. By the end of
the term working capital was
£18,723 stronger at £161,469.
The board has been careful
to avoid over-rapid expansion
requiring big increases in share-
capital, and a sharp fall in
earnings would be needed to
endanger the 15 p.c. div.-rate.
Although some of the co.’s
high-quality products and milk-
bar lines could be regarded as
luxuries, a lot of income
appears to come from the sale
of basic grocery lines. By im-
.pr oving both turnover and
profit last term Cottee’s demon-
strated that it can trade success-
fully in a strongly competitive
market under conditions less
favorable than those existing
when earlier gains were
recorded. The soft-drink trade
continues to be fiercely com-
petitive and a larger return
from investments in the bottling
cos. seems unlikely in the
current term.
With factories now operating
in all States except Tasmania,
the board is endeavoring to
improve the supply of raw
materials and hopes to obtain
increased production of the
type and quality ©f fruit needed
bv the co. “by means of intense
promotion.”
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net
tangible asset - backing of
40s. 4d. and at 475. return 6.4
p.c. from a 15 p.c. div.
(“Wild Cot” continued on
page 32)




Freedom is [?] Rainlow
By
STEPHEN KELEN
Gyula Lovas is the central —
rather than the leading—
character around whom (with
his family and near relations)
swirls the fierce action in this
tense short novel of the
Hungarian revolt in October-
November last year. To be
completed in five instalments ,
here is the second: the first
(last week) swept -in the
bewildered beginnings of the
revolt, with Lovas and others
still uncertain of their part.
THE long walk back to
Rose Hill exhausted
Lovas. He suddenly
realised that he had
eaten and drunk nothing since
the morning. It was now late
afternoon.
He had to pass through the
Russian settlements, and
noticed the Soviet tanks, their
gun-covers taken off, ready.
The tank-crews could see him.
It was too late to run away.
With pretended calm, his heart
beating the tattoo of fear, he
walked past the steel monsters.
The Russians paid no attention
to him.
A chilly breeze blew from
the mountains. Hunger made
him feel the cold in its full
intensity. Yet as he searched
his pockets for the front-door
key he felt that in the city,
with its tremendous crowds
that pressed their own reckless-
ness upon him, he had left an
ocean of freedom for a desert
island, to await the immolation
that time or the system would
make of him.
Albert opened the door
before Lovas found his key.
“Pity you didn’t come home
earlier,” he said. “Colonel
Varga called.”
Colonel Varga was Lovas’s
commanding-officer. He worked
as a navvy for a building-
“trust.”
“Varga warned us,” Albert
went on, “not to participate in
the uprising. We are all
reserve-officers, who served in
Horthy’s Army. If we help the
youths the Communists will
spread the rumor that reac-
• tionary Horthyist officers are
behind the movement. As it
is, their story is that Fascist
bands are roaming the city,
plundering and killing.”
“Did Father come home?”
Lovas asked.
“No,” Paula said as she
came to the door and embraced
her husband.
Lovas insisted “Any news
about him? A phone-call?
Anything?”
“The phone’s out of action,”
Albert said.
In the background Radio
Budapest was blaring “reassur-
ing news”:
“The Fascist bandits have
been liquidated,” a smooth
Government voice repeated
over and over-again. “There’s
law and order in the city again.
We ask and beg householders
not to shelter reactionaries.”
Distant gunfire punctuated
the silence in which they ate
their dinner.
“That’s Kov e s talking,”
Albert recognised the voice of
one of his colleagues. “He’s
dyed in the bloodiest Red. He’s
lying. I always know when
he’s lying, because he tries to
sound soft and sincere.”
“Of course he’s lying,” Lovas
said angrily. “There are a
million angry people in the
streets down there. Not even
the efficiency of the Avos can
hurry them out, nor the
Russian tanks. You can’t
liquidate the whole capital;
you just can’t do that.”
“I hope you’re right, but
they’ll try to do just that,”
Albert remarked gloomily.
“Colonel Varga,” Paula said,
“warned us to stay indoors and
ration our supplies.”
“Are we going to school
tomorrow?” Tamas and Judit
asked, after arguing the point
between themselves.
“You both stay home,”
Maria said. “There’ll be no
school, or anything else.”
TTIE two families pooled
their food. For almost two
days they maintained their
seclusion. The broadcasts in-
furiated them. They switched
off the radio, then turned it
on again, hoping to hear at
least an echo of the truth, but
Koves-like announcers con-
tinued reassuring and threaten-
ing. Radio Free Europe and
other Western short-wave
stations remained a jumble of
sounds, intermingled with a few
intelligible words.
The words indicated that the
uprising was far from being
suppressed. And, indeed, con-
tinuous explosions brought the
message of violent battles to
Rose Hill from the city.
Early on Thursday afternoon
(October 25, the third day of
the revolution) Lovas could
stand his isolation no longer.
“I’m going down-town,” he
said to Paula.
Paula smiled timidly, and
said nothing.
“I’m coming with you,”
Albert said. “We can’t just
stay here cooped up while the
whole city is in an uproar.”
“May I come with you?”
Tamas asked eagerly.
“No, you cannot, Tamas.”
Paula spoke firmly. “Your
father and Uncle Albert must
go, but you’re too young to be
out there.”
“But other kids are out in
the streets fighting the Avos,
Mama,” Tamas insisted.
“Don’t be silly,
Tamas,” Maria said.
“Children don’t fight.”
Tamas retreated
into a morose silence.
He was a reticent boy,
and spoke only when
he had to. Even at
his age he knew the
consequences of idle
chatter. Classmates
who spoke to other
children about their
father’s contempt for
the regime had dis-
appeared from the
school.
So the two men
hurried towards the
city. They carefully
avoided Russian tank
and armored-car con-
centrations, keeping
to the side-streets.
They no longer feared
to join the demonstrat-
ing crowds, but rather
that they would be
detained before they
reached Pest.
Lovas felt the elation with
which as a child he went to
barrack for his Soccer-team,
Ujpest. He remembered the
huge crowds ... But now the
sportsgrounds had grown out
0 f a ]j proportion, the spectators
were participants, the stakes
were life or death
“Did notice ' there . s more
Russiai / flghting battle-wagons
around here? .. s Albert J kei ,
.. xh are reaU a(raid of us _..
,
Lovas nodded with satisfaC-
tion - For lon § years Hungary
Bad been treated like a boot-
Peking lackey of no conse-
quence, ignored and pushed
from P llla r to post. Now the
R ed masters had to pay
attention.
The Russians were afraid,
anxious to protect their
officials, who acted in the high-
handed manner of bad
colonisers. Instead of beads,
mirrors and top-hats they
traded in Marxism, five-year-
plans, collective security, and
other intangibles. In return
they demanded goods and
services—everything.
A STFADY flow of nmtm
A Irm ° Y
lances passed them as they
un\e over Mai gaiet Bridge.
On the Buda side of the twin-
city was John s Hospital; the
ambulances were taking the
wounded there. Occasionally
a car with a Government
number-plate was in the sorry
procession.
A small group of people
stood at the beginning of
Margaret-boulevard, watching
the cars speeding towards the
bridge. -Lovas and Albert
joined the crowd, and listened.
“The beasts are even using
the ambulances to escape,” said
a peasant-woman, with a hand-
kerchief around her head. She
spat her contempt at the cars.
“We should stop them. But
how?” a man wondered aloud.
Standing in the crowd, Lovas
for the first time realised that
this was not a demonstration
but a full-fledged revolution.
This was no longer a mere
expression of the people’s
mood, yelling, and chalking on
the walls slogans such as “Long
Live Free Hungary! Death to
the Avos! ” Here were positive
results. The secret-police had
accepted defeat and fled—by
the third day.
The c r 0 w helplessly
watched the exodus of terror,
Allow these potential killers to
escape and go into hiding 7 As
soon as the balance of power
turned in their favor they
would return to bully and
kill . . . Three unarmed
frontier-guards, in their green
uniforms, took a lively interest
in the discussions,
“Why didn’t we think of this
before?” one of them ex-
claimed.
His voice droned over tli£
chatter of the crowd. Every*'
one looked at him first, then
the eyes followed his> hand as
it pointed to the natural in-
gredients of an effective road-
block.
In the past few weeks the
gas-pipes had been replaced ;
the old ones piled up on the
roadside—the veiy things to
make a check-point. Without;
further prompting the people
rushed to pick up the huge
pipes. In a matter of minutes
the road was blocked.
The small crowd increased
to hundreds, most of them, like
Lovas and Albert, fence-sitters,
but with revolutionary
o Continued on page 35)


mmm
T
y j
s- . ;
I ft I 11
,: v .
I ft*:? ft
Ifffljlllf
: :•: •
mm
REGISTERED
first
MORT 6* gE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
X
per
tteeJ
wmm
W 4
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
3 MONTHS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock"
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. A A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
16.5
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITimg
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH - HOBART
;
T
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOTT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for
hot-water systems, and household
requirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to -operate and will last a
lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRID6E PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvi-
-1 linear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines and Ellison Switch Gear.
Australia Silknit, Ltd.
■piTFALLS abound for the
textile-manufacturer. He
must try to anticipate the
changes of fashion, take the
risk that seasons may fail and
demand not eventuate, and, in
the event of technological
developments, be ready to scrap
machinery long before the
normal process of wear and
tear has ended its usefulness.
More than most, his industry
suffers from excess production-
capacity, and because his raw
materials are subject to pro-
nounced variations in price, he
sometimes sees his whole
trading profit wiped out by a
fall in stock values.
These are of the nature of the
problems that have troubled
Australia Silknit in the last
couple of terms. Women’s and
children’s underwear and night-
wear are the lines it makes in
factories at Erskineville, Wol-
longong, Young and Swansea,
all in N.S.W. The business ex-
panded quickly and profitably
after the war, and the post-
Korean slump did little to
hinder the progress. In 1953
the co.'s profit covered the pref.
div. and 56.7 p.c. on the ords.
(56.4 p.c. the following year).
Then, in 1955, there were clear
signs of reduced spending on
clothing, which meant a
corresponding sharpening of
competition ; nylon came into
much wider demand at the
expense of rayon, and net earn-
ings contracted by 71.5 p.c.
Last year a slack spring- and
summer-trade followed another
unseasonable winter, and the
co. was able to maintain its
share of the business offering
only by cutting margins or
selling below cost of produc-
tion :
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends •, Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. / — —Ord. N serves.
7 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £
Fr#m tax stock provisions,
£12,200 147,034
W/off intangibles, £ll4 .. 147.128
’50..44,246 4200 15 = 18,150 169,024
’51..42,706 4200 15 = 18,150 389,380
Exchange refunds, £2373.. 191,753
’52..56,344 4200 15 '= 18,150 225,747
Exchange refunds, £1821.. 227,568
’53..72,765 4200 174 = 21,175 274,958
’54..72,404 4200 17$ = 21,175 321,987
’55..20.600 4200 124 = 15,125 323,262
Tax overprovided, £1940 .. 325,202
Loss.
’56..23,912 4200 10 = 12,100 284,990
According to chairman H.
Gordon Carter most of the
term’s ioss of £23,912 occurred
during the third quarter. Since
then the position has eased and
in the current term business
has become profitable again.
So far -as attention to plant,
methods and the quality of
workmanship can help in the
present circumstances Australia
Silknit appears to have left
little undone ; the vice-president
of Silknit, Ltd., of Canada, the
co.’s biggest shareholder, visited
Australia recently and ex-
pressed satisfaction with what,
he saw.
Finances are standing -up
well:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 195.5. 195(3.
Pref £60,000 £60,000
Old 121,000 123,000
Reserves .. .. 323,262 284,990
Creditors '.. .. 82,723 88.414
Staff funds .. .. 12,277 12,18(3
Tax provision .. 77,812 33,93.3
Final divs... .. 11,175 8,150
£688,249 £608,673
Land, buildings, plant 92,003 85,042
Stock .. .. 437,505 403,13 3
Debtors .. .. 81,279 85,421
Cash, etc. .. .. 77,462 35,097
£688,249 £608,673
At balancing-date on December
31, current assets exceeded all
liabilities by £380,948, and
creditors (there was no over-
draft) represented only 3s. lOd.
for each £ of shareholders’
money. Freeholds and plant
appear at cost or their" 1936
valuation (£192,505), less depre-
ciation. Biggest item, stock,
has, the report says, been care-
fully watched and is valued
conservatively.
Whether the improvement
noticed in trading will continue
isn’t certain. Competition is
still keen and likely to remain
so, but investors take a brighter
view of the position, and price
the ss. ords. at 7s. 3d. (6s. Id.
earlier in the year) for a return
of 6.9 p.c. on the basis of a
10 p.c. div.
Cable (1956), Ltd., has taken
an option over an area at
Champion Bay, about four
miles from Geraldton (W.A.).
Cable is at present producing
ilmenite from beach-dune
deposits near Bunbury and
current production is reported
to be at a rate of 100 tons a
day.


“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT PTY. LIMITED,
Churchill Chambers, 61 Market St., Sydney.
’Phones: BM 6392, JB 4857.
Mr. W. Langford-Penny, Principal,
“TRENT” MIND AND MEMORY DEVELOPMENT,
Box 4578, G.1'.0., Sydney.
I am genuinely interested in your course of instruction in Mind and
Memory Development, and would without obligation like full
details.
(BC7)
NAME ...
ADDRESS
The man...
WITH THE MEMORY!
The average person "just DOESN'T KNOW HOW
to remember," says Langford-Penny!
As the guest speaker at, say, a
Rotary Club dinner, psychologist
Mr. W. Langford-Penny will ask
those present to write down, each
under the other, the figures 1 to 10.
To then call out 10 different five-
figure numbers, one at a time.
These numbers are then written
against the key-figures 1 to 10.
Within a minute or two, a list
something like this_ will have
grown:
1. 50131 6. 51734
2. SS2BS 7. 56943
3. 76364 8. 46351
4. 89791 9. 43607
5. 85279 10. 18439
Langford-Penny will then ask
someone to read the list of numbers
once through. He has then HEARD
these numbers— TWlCE ONLY!
At no time has he seen them
written down. Yet he will give,
from memory, the 10 sets of figures,
in correct order— backwards or
forwards! Or at random! “What
is number 6, please?” Like a flash
comes the answer— “ No. 6 is 51734.”
Or, half-hoping to trick him, some-
one may ask— “number 89791, how
about that?” “That,” Langford-
Penny assures him., “is the fourth
number on the list!”
At the end of his address, having
spoken for half an hour or more,
with no chance whatsoever to give
further thought to the numbers, it
is found that they are still tucked
securely away in his memory. He
can still give them all —without
hesitation or error. He explains
that he could, if necessary, retain
them to the end of his days. Or,
he can just as easily allow them to
fade from the ken of his conscious
mind.
Amazing? Not really!
A3IAZING? “Not really,” says
Mr. Langford-Penny, “merely a
matter of KNOWING HOW to re-
member. It’s as easy as all that!”
“Every day,” says Langford-
Penny, “brings its fresh quota of
evidence to support my claim that
the average person —to put it
rather bluntly JUST DOESN’T
KNOW HOW TO REME3IBER!
Tests conducted almost daily in
my office, with school children,
University students, adult men and
women studying for various exami-
nations, as well as business, pro-
fessional and trades men and
women —IN ALL WALKS OF
LlFE—slidw that, in general, so
much valuable time, energy and
patience is being wasted by sheer
repetitious SLOGGING.”
He then goes on to say that he
himself once had —or THOUGHT
that he had —a very poor memory.
A business man, he was constantly
embarrassed, as just one example,
by his inability to remember
people's names. “Heaven knows I
tried hard enough,” he savs, “I
used to REPEAT THE NA3IE
OVER AND OVER AGAIN in the
back of my head when meeting a
person, hut, invariably, the conver-
sation took over, and, ten minutes
or so later, the name would be
completely gone. I used to write
down a list of the things that 1
had to do. Excellent idea! Pro-
vided that I could remember
where I had put the confounded
piece of paper!” But all that
belongs to the past. For, just
about the time that he was really
worried about his poor memory, he
read something to the effect that
“....the average person is NOT
using more than 10 to 15 per cent,
of his REAL INHERITED
memory-power.” This set him
rocking back on his heels. His
living was being made, not by
using the muscles of his arms, but
by the intelligent use of whatever
mental powers lie might possess.
“ IF,” he reasoned, “I HAVE A
3IENTAL POTENTIAL OF 85%
WHICH I A3I NOT USING
SIMPLY BECAUSE OF LACK OF
KNOW-HOW THEN I 3IOST
CERTAINLY WANT TO KNOW
HOW!!!”
Geography, too! “It matters not what yon are studying—it’s all a
matter of REMEMBERING!” Langford-Penny explains to 11 years old
Maree Brownlee, at a Sydney Public School.
Langford-Penny further reasoned
that EVERY INTELLIGENT
MAN, WO3IAN and CHILD would
likewise be interested in learning
HOW to UNDERSTAND and USE
—INTELLIGENTLY and EFFEC-
TIVELY—bis or her memory-
powers.
He studied, experimented and
researched for SEVEN YEARS be-
fore feeling qualified to put pen
to paper. Particularly was he
anxious to get away from the ideas
of the spate of memory-training
courses that came into existence
in the early 1900’s. “Who today,”
he reasoned, “would buy a vintage
car, when the late models offer so
much in vast improvements?”
Langford-Penny’s course of in-
struction—“YOUß 31 E 31 O R Y !
HOW IT WORKS! HOW TO
USE IT!” —copyrighted and regis-
tered under the trade name of
“TRENT,” met with instant
success. (To prove to the public
that “TRENT” was 100 per cent,
sincere, genuine and efficacious, Mr.
Langford-Penny approached the
N.S.W. Police Department. The
course was rigidly tested by the
Criminal Investigation Branch of
the Police Department, and came
through all tests with flying
colours.) Recently, at a Sydney
suburban school, Langford-Penny
addressed a Sixth Class of boys
and girls (average age of 11 and
12 years) on ways and moans of
remembering. After speaking to
them for twenty minutes, he
handed a copy of the morning
newspaper to the class teacher and
invited the teacher to mark, at
random, 10 items of news and to
number them 1 to 30. Mr. Lang-
ford-Penny then read each item,
slowly, to the class. He read each
item—ONCE ONLY! lie then
handed the newspaper back to the
teacher, inviting him to ask ANY
boy or girl in the class ANY
number from 1 to 10. In each and
every case, the boy or girl con-
cerned INSTANTLY gave,- from
memory, details of the item of
news corresponding to the number
called out. 11- and 12-year-olds,
mind you!
THEY HAD PROVED, BEYOND
ALL SHADOW OF DOUBT. THAT
IT IS POSSIBLE TO REMEMBER
DETAILS HAVING HEARD
(THEY DIDN’T SEE THE ITEMS
OF NEWS, MARK YOU) THEM
—ONCE ONLY!
“Erky-Perky old history
is now good fun!”
History books were then opened.
A page was selected that was new
to the class. A cursory run-
through—to get a general idea of
what it was all about. Then
EXACTLY THE SA3IE TECH-
NIQUE as was used with the news
items was applied. Imagine the
excitement when it was then dis-
covered by the children that they
could, promptly and correctly,
answer questions (even trick ques-
tions) shot at them by the teacher
and Mr. Langford-Penny. “Erlty-
Tlie postman had no difficulty
deliver ins this letter from South
Africa.
perky old history was,” they
agreed, “quite good fun, exciting
and interesting” when it was
learnt this way. AND HOW EASY
TO RE3IE3IBER!
Subsequent periodical tests
showed that the subject matter—
intelligently acquired by the
CORRECT USE of the children’s
memory-powers—was just as easily’
RETAINED in their memory.
Age doesn’t matter.
Which brings up the question
of age. “Am I too old to do any*
thing about my memory?” is a
question often asked. He answers
this by showing you bundles of
letters from people of ALL ages—
IN ALL WALKS OF LIFE (he
does not, and will not, divulge the
names of these people—but the
letters are so obviously genuine
that one accepts the thoughtful
action without question) . I
want you to know,” said a highly-
placed public official, “how much
‘TRENT’ has meant to me. I am
55 years of age. Before investing
in your course I was really
worried about my memory. As a
young man I was very proud of
my memory. But, as the years
went by, I found it gradually de-
teriorating. Now, thanks to you-
it is better than ever it was . , .
Available to the Public.
Langford-Penny’s course of in-
struction is available to serious-
minded persons who feel that a
THOROUGHLY RELIABLE
MEMORY is Important to them.
Under the trade name of “TRENT,”
the course consists of SEVEN welj
presented, well illustrated booklets
of simple instruction. ALL
MEMBERS OF THE FAMILY
can benefit from the course. From
about 8 years of age onwards —with
parental guidance, of course.
COMPLETE HOME INSTRUC-
TION--whether you live at KINGS
CROSS or KALGOORLIE.
As a gesture of good faith, a
WRITTEN GUARANTEE is sup-
plied with every course.
CALL, ’PHONE, WRITE or
31 AIL THE COUPON if you are
sincerely interested, and would
like to receive full details.


MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
"JVTEW ZEALAND’S exports
to Australia in the finan-
cial year ended March 31 last
increased by £2.6 million to
the record total of £9 million.
The increase, which
amounted to 40 per cent., was
achieved during a period in
which Australian imports were
strictly controlled by licensing.
It reflects the agreement
reached by the Prime Ministers
of Australia and New Zealand
after trade talks in March last
year.
Australian exports to New
Zealand in the same period also
increased by £2.6 million —to
£33.5 million. On a percentage
basis this represented only
8.4 p.c.
Though is-New Zealand’s,
adverse trade-balance with
Australia thus remained un-
changed in money terms at
£24.5 million, the 1956 adverse
ratio of five-to-one was reduced
to four-to-one.
The trade-balance will re-
main heavily in Australia’s
favor in the foreseeable future,
but it is expected that the ratio
will continue to move to the
Dominion’s advantage as the
total level of trade rises and as
New Zealand develops new
exports. The N.Z. Govern-
ment would like to see a better
trade-balance, but believes that
it can best be achieved by in-
creasing exports to Australia
rather than by cutting imports.
That is simply a matter of
sound commonsense. Aus-
tralia is the cheapest market
available to New Zealand in
which to buy steel, wheat,
sugar and many other products.
It would be foolish to shop
elsewhere at higher prices.
The closing of the Suez
Canal gave proof of the ad-
vantage to New Zealand of
proximity to the modern oil-
refinerie's of Australia. During
the three months commencing
November 1, 1956, one Aus-
tralian refinery sent 1,6.4 mil-
lion gallons of oil across the
Tasman. In the last full year
Australia supplied New Zea-
land with 17 per cent, of its
petrol and 20 per cent, of its
oil-requirements.
Since 1949 steel imports
from Australia have increased
by 380 per cent, to £3.2 million
last year. Eight years ago New
Zealand obtained only one-
sixth of its iron and steel from
Australia ; today it’s more like
one-quarter. As one of Aus-
tralia’s best customers —admit-
tedly a satisfied one —N.Z. feels
entitled to some special help
and consideration in building-
up its export trade in goods
which Australia needs. That
help has been forthcoming, as
the last year’s figures show.
Exports of pulp and paper,
including newsprint, are be-
lieved to have accounted for
most of the increase in 1956
exports. Shipments of timber
failed to reach expectations
because of the recession in
house-building in Australia,
but are expected to improve in
the third quarter of this year.
The newly developed trade
in quick - frozen vegetables
brought in nearly £250,000,
and great hopes are held for its
future expansion.
Butter and Cheese
The N.Z. Dairy Industry
Account may lose between £8
million and £9 million on
butter and cheese in the 1956-
“Keep it up , son. You Ur finish with a million."
57 season. That was the esti-
mate which the chairman of
the Dairy Products Marketing
Commission, W. Marshall,
gave to the Dominion Dairy
Conference this month. There
is, however, a fairly widespread
belief in the industry that final
results will be rather better
than that.
The account is still in a
strong position. At July last
year it was in credit by more
than £2B million. Nevertheless,
it is clear that reserves must
be carefully husbanded —a few
unfavorable seasons could
quickly wipe them out.
That fact must be given due
weight by those responsible for
fixing the new guaranteed price
to come into operation at the
beginning of the next season
on August 1.
The new price will be the
basis for calculating all future
guaranteed or floor prices,
which, under the Dairy Pro-
ducts Marketing Commission
Act passed last year, must not
fall by more than 5 per cent,
from year to year. It is also
laid down that the price for the
first year—l9s7-58—must not
be less than 95 per cent, of the
estimated cost of production.
Any attempt to fix the basic
cost-of-production figure un-
realistically high would bring
ultimate failure to the whole
guaranteed-price scheme.
In the end the dairyfarmer
cannot hope to receive more
for his produce over any con-
siderable period than it brings
on the export market. The
most that any guaranteed-price
scheme can do is to smooth out
ups and downs. Necessary
though his work is to the
national economy, the farmer
cannot expect the general tax-
payer to bolster his income at
an artificially high level.
There is, many people be-
lieve, some truth in the con-
tention of the Leader of the
Opposition, Mr. Nash, that the
principle of the guaranteeed
price has already been strained
by payments in excess of costs.
The chairman of the
National Dairy Federation, L.
D. Hickford, said this month
that farmers could not justly
claim “full costs” on a falling
market. Such a claim, if met,
would preserve indefinitely a
high-cost structure for the
whole country, which, if
coupled with falling markets,
would spell ultimate disaster,
he said. It is not clear what he
meant by “full costs.”
The only way in which the
dairy industry can achieve real
and lasting security is to get
its costs down. Even if obtain-
able, high butter prices in
Britain offer no solution. It
has been proved time and again
that they merely turn the
British housewife to margarine.
And there is a real danger that
customers who forsake butter
for margarine may one day not
return to butter even when the
price drops.
Dairy production is rising in
most countries and competition
is likely to be keen. The New
Zealand industry should pre-
pare to face-up to lower prices
by increasing efficiency, sten-
ping-up production and de-
veloping new marKets outSiuC
Britain.
Meat for Asia
The N.Z. Meat Producers’
Board is showing signs of
readiness to take the initiative
in developing trade with new
Eastern markets. At present
there is something of a dead-
lock. Meat cannot be
without regular shipping, and
the shipping is not available
because regular cargoes are
not assured.
The Meat Board chairman,
J. D. Ormond, said this month
that, if no> one else . would
undertake it, he considered the
board should examine the pos-
sibility of running its own re-
frigerated ships. The spokes-
man for a large meat-exporting
firm said that N.Z<’s oppor-
tunity lay in the next 10 to 12
years, during which period
Australia, because of her con-
tract with Britain, would be
unable to send much meat to
the East.


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
"m.
r
m
li
m
OORALITE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
&
k
&
KNIOI
* It’s easier and there’s
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy * Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps . . *
SUPER
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd
Cs!7<
sympathies. The road-block
completed, the crowd awaited
the arrival of a vehicle.
A TRUCK approached. A
silence came over the
crowd. Should they remain or
take cover? The Green Avo
who had suggested the road-
block looked around with an
inane smile.
The truck, packed with
soldiers who still wore the Red
Star on the top of their caps,
halted in front of the road-
block.
“Any of you have enough
guts to come with me and talk
to the soldiers?” one of the
Green Avos challenged the
crowd.
The two other frontier-guards
joined him.
“I’m with you,” Lovas heard
himself saying.
“If you go, I go,” Albert
decided. “After all, they’re
Hungarian soldiers.”
A sergeant climbed out from
the truck’s front-seat.
“What goes on here?” he
demanded.
“Where are you going?”
Lovas spoke before the others,
angrier for making himself
conspicuous.
There were bound to be in-
formers about, memorising his
face, following him home.
Those few words he uttered
had put the stigma on him. If
the Communists won in the
end, he would certainly be on
their blacklist. Perhaps for
years he’d be left alone, but
when the convenient moment
came they’d put him through
the mill. What then? Jail —
or absolute liquidation. He
remembered Colonel Varga’s
Warning. But he couldn't help
it. He had spoken against his
will.
The sergeant looked puzzled.
He turned to his driver.
“Where are we going?” he
asked.
“You tell me,” the driver
laughed. “You’re the
sergeant.”
“We’re just going; some-
where—l don’t know,” the
sergeant said.
“And fight us, would you,
your own blood?” the peasant-
woman screamed at him.
The sergeant held up his
hands in protest.
“Now, wait a minute,” he
thundered, as though on the
|Paradeground. “We’re Hun-
garians, too.”
“Then give us your weapons,
or join us!” a voice called from
the crowd.
“All right,” the sergeant
said. “I’ll go part of the way.”
He took his “guitar,” as the
Russian submachine-guns were
nicknamed in Hungary, from
his shoulder and offered it to
Lovas.
“You spoke first,” he said ;
“you take the guitar.”
Lovas hesitated. It was
compromising enough to speak
up ; but to carry a weapon . . .?
The sergeant surveyed him
with mild amusement.
“Well, are you going to take
it, or just talk?” he demanded
sarcastically.
The eyes of the crowd were
focused on Lovas.. The soldiers
in the open truck looked at their
n.c.o. and the, civilian.
“I’ll take it,” Albert said,
while Lovas still hesitated.
“Well, it's all yours,” the
sergeant said, handing over his
weapon.
“I hope you know how to
use it. Once you’ve got it,
you’ll need it, brother.”
The soldiers standing in the
open truck watched their
n.c.o.’s action approvingly.
They jumped off the vehicle
and distributed their rifles and
ammunition among the clamor-
ing crowd. The driver climbed
out of his cabin.
“You can have the truck as
well, with Comrade Gero’s
compliments,” he shouted.
He tore the Red Stax off his
cap, and squashed it with his
boots. The others followed his
example. But not one of them
joined the crowd. In seconds
they dispersed, leaving the
weapons and the truck behind.
The Green Avo backed the
truck into a side-street.
Lovas, in a daze, found
himself with a rifle a private
pushed into his hands. The
crowd now was capable of
controlling the road - block.
Lovas w r as part of the crowd.
He felt jubilant—and safe.
TTWO more Army vehicles
came. The soldiers again
handed their weapons over and
dispersed. One of them said :
“We’ll be with you as soon
as we get hold of some civilian
clothes ; meanwhile you can
use our guns. There’s a lot
more where these came from.”
Now a food-van came up the
block. A dozen revolutionaries
surrounded it. Some of them
opened the back of the van,
packed with good food only
the privileged enjoyed ; a con-
signment to some Avos centre
(Continued on page 56)


CANADA TRIES A CHANGE
NEWS that the Liberal Government
of Mr. St. Laurent had been
defeated in the Canadian general
election by the Progressive
Conservative party led by Mr. Diefen-
baker aroused little interest in Australia.
It is rather difficult to become interested
in the politics of a country if one is not
interested in the country, and the average
Australian knows very little about
Canada apart from the fact that it is a
fellow-Dominion of the British Com-
monwealth, is situated up topside of
North America and is mighty cold.
Wheatfarmers know it as a formidable
competitor on world markets ; newspaper-
men as a source of newsprint; sugar-
growers as a market for raw sugar. And
there are the Mounties.
This lack of knowledge of and interest
in Canada is probably equalled (if not
exceeded) by Canadian ignorance of
Australia. There’s nothing really
surprising in this. There has never been
much intercourse between the two
Dominions. In the war our troops
fought in different theatres, and since
then our defence commitments, though
both are within the ambit of the Western
Powers, are again cast in different areas.
Canada, as a member of Nato, is still
involved primarily in Atlantic and
European strategic plans, whereas Aus-
tralia’s Seato and Anzus commitments
are concerned with the Pacific and Asia.
Both countries find common ground
under the Colombo Plan, to which
Canada’s contribution is considerable. It
is probable that as the Dominion’s centre
of population moves westward there will
develop a greater community of interest
with Australia.. In the last quarter of a
century British Columbia has moved
from sixth to third among Canadian
provinces in size of population, thus
parallelling the progress of California,
which in the same period moved from
sixth to second among American States.
Ninety Years
Next' Monday Canada will celebrate
its 90th birthday as a self-governing
Dominion. It was brought into existence
by the British North America Act on
July .l, 1867, though, of course, the
various provinces and territories com-
posing it already had a long history as
separate colonies. Canada originally
meant only the French settlements along
the St. Lawrence River, wrested from
France by General Wolfe in 1759 and
ceded to England at the end of the Seven
Years War. In 1791 the territory was
divided into two colonies, Upper and
Lower Canada. Upper Canada (roughly
the present Ontario) was predominantly
English, Lower- Canada (Quebec) over-
whelmingly French. The two colonies
were given elective Assemblies, but the
real power was vested in the Governors
and their nominated Legislative Councils.
Dissatisfaction grew with the years, and
in 1837 burst into open revolt in both
colonies, led in Quebec by Louis
Papineau and in Upper Canada by
William Lyon Mackenzie, grandfather
of Prime Minister Mackenzie King. The
rebellion failed miserably, but . Lord
Durham was sent out from England to
investigate the troubles, and his report
recommended the immediate reunion of
the two Canadas and the ultimate union
of all British North America, with full
self-government.
Responsible Government
The Durham Report was a most
enlightened document, and it is generally
conceded that Durham, in preparing it,
was very much influenced by the ideas
of Edward Gibbon Wakefield, whose
scheme for colonisation was just then
being tried out in South Australia.
Wakefield considered self-government an
essential in a successful colony, but- the
Home authorities were strongly against
it. They were against Durham, too, but
for all that the two Canadas were very
shortly reunited and given a large
measure of self-government. And the
principle, once established, could not be
long withheld from other colonies. The
Acts which gave responsible government
to the Australian colonies in the 1850’s
really stemmed from the Durham Report,
which has been called the Charter of
Responsible Government.
In 1864 the colonies of New Bruns-
wick, Prince Edward Island and Nova
Scotia began discussing the possibility of
forming a Federal union. Canada became
interested and the outcome was the
British North America Act, which
created the Dominion of Canada. At
first the Dominion consisted of four
provinces—Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick. Manitoba (carved
out of the lands of the Hudson’s Bay
Company) was admitted in 1870;
British Columbia in 1871 and Prince
Edward Island (which had had early
doubts) in 1873. Alberta and
Saskatchewan did not achieve the status
of provinces until 1905, and Newfound-
land remained a separate colony until
1949, when it became the tenth province.
When confederation was first mooted
it was intended that the new political
entity should be called the Kingdom of
Canada, but Colonial Office fears that
the United States might resent this led
to the substitution of “Dominion.” The
recent change in the Royal Titles Act had
the effect of making Canada (also Aus-
tralia) a kingdom, thereby quite uninten-
tionally carrying out the wishes of the
negotiators of nearly a century ago.
In For Life /
Canada’s House of Commons is a
much larger chamber than our House of
Representatives. It has 265 members,
compared with Canberra’s 122. Ontario
elects 85 of them, Quebec 75 and so on
in proportion to population down to
Newfoundland’s 7 and Prince Edward
Island’s 4. Members are elected for five
years on adult suffrage. Voting is not
compulsory. The full Senate comprises
102 members “summoned” for life on the
nomination of fhe Prime Minister. As a
legacy of the long run of Liberal Govern-
ments more than three-quarters of the
Senators belong to that party, so that
Mr. Diefenbaker’s Government will face
the prospect of a hostile Senate —a
position not unknown to Australian
Governments.
.In the Commons Mr. Diefenbaker will
have »o depend on the support of the
minor parties, as his Progessive Conserva-
tives do not hold an overall majority.
They have 109 seats as against the
Liberals’ 104.
“Canada First”
During the election campaign Mr.
Diefenbaker preached what he called a
“Canada First” policy which has been
interpreted as meaning closer economic
links with Britain and less dependence
on America. In reality both parties base
their foreign policy on continued associa-
tion with the British Commonwealth
and on close defence-co-operation with
the United States, with, of - course,
adherence to U.N. and Nato. External
Affairs Minister Lester Pearson said a
few months ago in connection with
American Middle East policy:
Welcome as is this indication of the
acceptance by the United States of a direct
and immediate responsibility lor peace and
economic progress in the Middle Last,
even more welcome to a Canadian would be
the full restoration of close and friendly
relations between London. Paris and „
Washington in respect of that area and the
strengthening of their co - operation
generally.
This statement reflects the dual heritage
of the Canadian people. Of the 16-
million present-day Canadians 30 per
cent, are of French descent. At the 1951
census the racial composition of the
population was: British, 6,710,000;
French, 4,319,000; German, 620,000;
Ukrainian, 395,000 ; Scandinavian,
283,000; Dutch, 264,000; Polish,
219,000; others, 1,198,000. Resentment
at the cavalier treatment of Britain and
France by America over the Suez affair,
bringing British and French Canadians
together for once on a matter of foreign
policy, may well have been a contribut-
ing factor to Diefenbaker’s success. But
a bigger factor was probably his demand
for a bigger say in the control of
American concerns operating in Canada.
U.S. industrial investment in Canada
exceeds £5OOO million, and Diefenbaker is
asking for Canadian representation on
boards of directors and a wider use of
Canadian executives. Furthermore,
Canadian farmers (like Australian) don’t
look very favorably on the U.S. habit of
unloading wheat surpluses.
With voting power uneasily poised,
Diefenbaker may have to go to the people
again soon in search of a more definite
mandate. Meanwhile he’s off to London
to the Prime Ministers’ conference. In
view of his election pronouncements he
should find an interested audience there.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This ?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
After months of summer-
hard tracks, racegoers at Caul-
field on Saturday at last had to
contend with real winter going
that upset form-calculations.
Only in the two jumping events
did punters have it a bit their
own way.
Law Pursuit’s win in the
Toolambool Hurdle —his fourth
in a row heartened his
National admirers. As usual,
the four-year-old Faircourt
gelding quickly went to the
front and opened up a long
lead. He was six lengths to the
good at the half-mile, but this
was reduced to a bare length
on the post, and, as was said
here after his previous win, he
may be too brilliant for the
exacting three miles of the
National. Although his grand-
dam, Neoxena, has produced
some good jumpers, including
Parentena, winner of the 1942
National Steeple, his sire, Fair-
court, has got mainly sprinters.
Lord Celere’s run in the
Toolambool was a good
National pointer. He led the
chase after Law Pursuit, and
hung on well to run second.
Third horse, Paid Up, ran an
even race, and as it was his
first start over jumps for two
months he’s bound to be im-
proved.
• • • •
The Roisel Steeple had little
hearing on National prospects.
The winner, Recurrent, who
deserved a change of fortune
after five consecutive seconds,
is not entered for the big race,
and none of the horses that
finished behind him appeals as
a National chance.
The heavy going . made the
seven furlongs of the Minook
Two-year-old a test of stamina
for the youngsters. Both divi-
sions went to maiden per-
formers. Line Ahead was
impressive in winning the first
division comfortably. Well
hack at the straighFentrance,
he finished strongly down the
outside of the track to win at
his ease. The gelding’s owners,
G. H. Wilson (editor of *a.
suburban newspaper) and F. H.
Porter, have Derby hopes for
Line Ahead. He is bred well
enough to win a good race.
His dam, Devon Dove, traces
back to Grand Flaneur, who
was unbeaten in-nine starts in
Australia, and his sire,
Approve, was by Enfield, who
has got so many good horses.
• • • •
Winner of the second divi-
sion, Well Placed, is trained by
Tony Lopes, and races in the
colors made famous by Chic-
quita, the mare who first
brought Lopes into promin-
ence. In the run down the
straight, the favorite, Rise
“How am I to know he hasn't been tipped off to
k.o. me BEFORE the tenth?"
Again, and Well Placed drew
away from the rest of the field,
but Well Placed showed
superior stamina to win com-
fortably. He probably gets his
staying-power from his sire,
imported Neapolitan, who put
up some good distance-
performances on English
tracks. Well Placed is raced
on lease by George Lopes.(no
relation to the trainer), who
has a fruit-barrow in a city
lane.
Apprentice Alan Yeomans
added further to his growing
reputation by riding another
double at Caulfield. He gave
an outstanding exhibition on
the three-year-old Paratone to
win the £l5OO Richmond
Handicap. Yeomans rode his
mount hard from the start to
overcome a bad barrier posi-
tion, had it nicely placed until
the straight-entrance, where he
shot it away, and showed vigor
in holding off challenges from
the two horses best backed in
the race, Andonni and Beau
Orator, ridden by leading
jockeys Williamson and
Heather. Paratone is a colt
out of Folkestone by the
imported Paramount, whose
progeny raced last year for the
first time.
• • • •
A. Mulley has been riding
extra-well, landing the money
on six winners in seven days,
at widely different addresses and
on widely different types of
gallopers. Most important, of
course, was his Stradbroke win
on Kingster. This was followed
by a double at Randwick
(Luck’s A Fortune and Saltillo)
and a minor Hawkesbury event
on My Trophy. Mulley added
two more at Canterbury on
Saturday, when Squander Lad
(another of Jack Green’s team)
and Turkestan were successful.
Turkestan, trained at Rose-
bery by Gordon Brown, is to
be set for the spring classics.
In a weakened field for the
Canterbury Park Flying, due to
the withdrawal of the better-
fancied horses because of heavy
showers, five-year-old New
Zealand mare Ma Reine was
able to win her first race in
Australia. She had shaped
moderately at several, outings,
but a soft track suited the
daughter of Faux Tirage (imp.)
and Excellency, and she finished
strongly to catch the runaway
pacemaker, High Spot, near
the winning-line. Ma Reine is
well related. Her dam won 16
races and £15,245 in stakes,
including the two-mile New
Zealand Cup. Others in the
family-lines include former
Sydney stayers Feminist and
Loquacious.
After trainer Vic Thomp-
son’s experience with Cragsley
at Canterbury it might pay
others preparing sprinters to
try them over a middle-distance.
Thompson gave Cragsley—a
sprinter with wins up to only
seven furlongs—his first chance
in Sydney to score beyond a
mile. The six-year-old Crags-
man gelding, suited by the soft
track, led most of the way over
9} furlongs of the Canterbury
Park Handicap. Country
jockey C. Kelly, who has a fine
winning-record in northern
areas, with some previous
Sydney wins thrown in, rods
Cragsley a clever race to hold
off a strong challenge by
J. Thompson on the favorite,
Lord Cynara. '
E. R. Williams, now on an
overseas trip, won some
travelling-expenses when Forest
Sound narrowly defeated Dail
Eireann in Canterbury Park's
Campsie Stakes (£741).
Williams’s best winners have
been Hydrogen- (£59,444),
Pride of Egypt, Forest Beau,
Waterlady and Electro. Forest
Sound cost him 2200gns. at the
1955 Randwick yearling-sales ;
this was the gelding’s first win.
A brother to High Forest, and
from a sister to Shannon and
Bernbrook, he’s by Delville
Wood (imp.) from Murmur
by Midstream (imp.).
• • • •
Octogenarian owner E. A.
Haley attended the A.J.C.'s
Queen’s Birthday meeting at
Randwick and listened very
happily indeed to the broad-
cast of the Q.T.C. Sires’ Pro-
duce Stakes, his crack colt
Tulloch clearing out with it


Feuth in the
Future
One of the many useful services performed by
agencies of the United Nations is to prepare reports
on the world’s population.
The result of one survey, recently released,
places the number of people on this earth at about
2700-million, and increasing at the rate of about
120,000 a day.
These are more than mere statistics. They
represent people —lives to be lived, mouths to be
fed, bodies to be clothed and sheltered.
The question of such numerical trends is, I
know, familiar in Australian thinking. It has
influenced our more vigorous policy on
immigration, particularly since the Second World
War. It also has led to discussion on Australia’s
rate-capacity to absorb migrants.
Whatever the branches of reasoning on the
subject, the plain fact is that we will have to press
on fearlessly with the populating of this country;
and in the meantime, fewness of numbers will have
to be compensated for by individual and national
efficiency.
Efficient little Holland has a population of
11-million, representing 858 inhabitants to the
square mile.. In Australia our nine-and-a-half
million represent little more than three to the
square mile. The tightly cultivated and highly
industrialised economy of our good friends the
Dutch is, of course, based very differently from our
own. Yet, allowing for everything that would
qualify a simple comparison, that should give us
some idea of how the pressures of living space are
rising in the world.
Here is one thought which I believe we can
apply to the spread of populations: Within the
British Commonwealth, including India, there are
still more than 600-million people; in the United
States about 170-million. Britain and America
are leaders in the great human partnership to
which Australia belongs.
But it is our own skill, our own strength, our
own ability to work upon the unfolding wealth of
a continent that will determine Australia’s
contribution —and share —in what the future holds
for humanity.
//.
and setting a race record. More-
over, with the win Tulloch
became record stakes-winner
among two-year-olds in this
part of the world. Tulloch
broke a 39-year-old time-
record, the 1. 25} made by
Sweet Lady. He covered the
seven furlongs in 1.24 f, and
increased his earnings to
£lB,OBB (7 wins, 6 seconds, 13
starts). Mollison, who raced
as a two-year-old in the 1927-28
season, was the previous top
stakes-winner at that age
(£17,343). Tulloch, of course,
had previously won both the
A.J.C. and V.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes.
The Q.T.C.’s Moreton
Handicap, principal event on
the final day of the winter
meeting, was won by the Rose-
hill-trained Fire Flash, ridden
by A, Ward. Fire Flash de-
feated New Zealander Baron
Boissier by a neck, with Prince
Delville half a length away
third. Ward could have ridden
Prince Delville, but he pre-
ferred Fire Flash, a bit of
good picking. The field
included several aspirants for
the Doomben Cup (July 13),
but they will have to improve
should Fire Flash be a starter,
and that was the intention after
the Moreton win. Under his
big weight (9.6) Baron Boissier
put up a grand performance—
one that will be noted by those
on the lookout for a Cups’
chance.
All the first four in the
Brisbane Cup were Enzedders
—Cambridge, Sombrero, Mac-
dougal, Redcraze. And how
lucky a jockey can be! Sell-
wood was without a Brisbane
Cup mount when Empire Link
was scratched, and he was only
offered the Cambridge ride a
few days before the Cup. Still,
there was more than luck to
it—Sellwood rode a masterly
race:
Perth racing clubs are
experiencing a repeat of what
happened in Adelaide some
years back, when licensed
betting-shops played havoc
with race-day attendances. At
the annual meeting of the
W.A.T.C. the chairman, Sir
Langlois Leroy, referred to the
big decreases in attendances
over the past two years. He
attributed most of it to the
advent of legalised betting-
shops. The drop was upwards
of 32 per cent, since April,
1955. On the other hand,
Sydney Saturday attendances
continue to comfortably fill the
enclosures, about 25,000 at the
suburban fixtures, with much
bigger crowds at Randwick
when the important races are
staged.
Todman, back from a spell,
is to be set for the A.J.C. Derby
if he shows ability to stay in
the early three-year-old events.
He may resume racing in the
Hobartville Stakes at Warwick
Farm late in August. Running
of the Canterbury and the
Rosehill Guineas, particularly
the latter, should give connec*
tions a real pointer to his stay-
ing prospects. However, there
are others rising three-year-old
that can be expected to get
over the Derby distance, par-
ticularly Tulloch.
• • • •
From “Ray” (Brisbane):
If ever a horse woh a big race
convincingly, Kingster did the Strad-
broke. Thirtf to jump, the flashy
brown at no part of the race had
more than two horses in front of
him, and, having chased the fast
pace that Copper Year and
Mandingos. (on the leader’s
hammer) had set, he came on the
turn with a sprint that belied the
9.4 he carried, and won by four
lengths. His time —1.23-f —bettered
the Eagle Farm and Queensland
record of Dowborough and Hiraji
by 1/10 sec. and Karendi’s race-
record by fsec. It was a fine win
by a fine horse.
In the last Doncaster Kingster was
one of the best things beaten in a
big race lor a long time—that was
agreed; yet in a scale of weights that
was 71b. higher than the Doncaster,
in which he had 9st., he was top-
weight with 9.4. Others, it was
argued, were better in (Mandingos,
Kingship, Commedia), but Kingster
had proved himself a rniler, and the
Slradbroke seven is proving ’itself
more and more a miler’s race. To
top it off, he drew the inside
barrier. And so, if Kingster raced
to the line carrying his head, the
way he does, as though he had done
something wrong, it may have been
that he felt guilty in so easily taking
a race that was almost a
presentation.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
The All Blacks have been
continuing their unbeaten,
record-scoring way. At North
Sydney, on Queen’s Birthday,
in a fast and bright game,
they lasted longer, though
finishing with a cripple or two,
than the Barbarians, 23-6, after
the Baa-baas had led 6-0. At
Wagga the Enzedders walloped
Riverina 48-11 —but Riverina
became the first team to score
three tries against them. On
Saturday, at Melbourne’s
Olympic Park, Victoria was
the victim, 28-3. Tonight
(June 26), at Norwood, the All
Blacks play S.A. in the last
game of their tour.
In Sydney’s Rugby Union on
Saturday, played in the wet,
Gordon, which had had a
runaway 28-3 win over Manly


Wr/fe Now to
C. T. LORENZ
the Specialist in
CAMERA
MAIL
ORDERS
We are shortly expecting the
arrival of a shipment oi
VOIGHTLANDER and
AGFA Cameras. This stock is
in short supply 1 Prominent,
Vitessa L and Vitessa T with
interchangeable lens, Veto B
and Veto BL. AGFA Silette
and Super Silette Many
accessories.
Large stocks of LINHOF and
BELL & HOWELL equipment.
To be certain ORDEiI
NOW!
All goods personally
guaranteed by
C. T. LORENZ
185 PITT ST..
Sydney BL 3431
in the first round, this time
trailed the boys from the
Corso 0-6 at half-time, and
had to play very well, and
more so, to win 11-6. Rand-
wick, now in second place
behind Gordon, again easily
beat East 23-3 (seven tries to
nil) ; St. George and Eastwood
repeated their first - round
draw, this time 6-all : —the two
competition-points thus result-
ing being the only two ’Wood
has gained; University
reversed the earlier decision,
toppling Parramatta 8-0;
while Drummoyne, as in their
first encounter, again scored
points right on the bell to beat
North, 12-9.
“K.R.”: “Veryl” is wrong in
stating that Tooth, Cameron,
Cox and Stapleton were the
first Australians to be invited
to play with the Barbarians out-
side Australia (B. 19/6/’57).
According to the “Rugby
News” programme at the Bar-
barians v. All Blacks game at
North Sydney on 17/6/’57,
many Australians, all
prominent in the code at
different times, have played for
the British “Baa-baas” —includ-
ing Tommy Lawton, Dr.
Howard Bullock, A. C.
Wallace, Dr. R. L. Raymond,
Dr. W. B. Sheehan, L. G.
Brown, “Jika” Travers and,
most recently, Dr. Doug Keller.
However, all of these would, I
think, have been resident in
Britain when invited to play;
Tooth and co. possibly were
the first Aussies living and play-
ing in Australia at the time to
be invited away.
* * *
The V.F.L. competition is
still a bit topsy-turvy —in the
10th round, on Saturday,
particularly noticeable in St.
Kilda’s 10.15-8.11 defeat of
Hawthorn, the then leader. The
Saints played well, and
deserved to win; their last
victory was in the fourth round,
when they beat North. Mel-
bourne, now top of the table
level on match-points with
Hawthorn, came from behind
at threequarter-time with a
brilliant last-quarter in which
it rattled-up 8.3 t to beat North
16.13-11.2. Besides Hawthorn,
two other teams in “the four”
were beaten. Collingwood,
though at home, somewhat
unexpectedly overcame
Carlton, which is now lying
fifth, 14.16-9.9, while
Richmond, tougher this year
than for some time past and
a definite “final-four” prospect,
snfothered Essendon 13.10-7.19.
Footscray, now in the four, was
too strong for Fitzroy, 14.14-
9.14, and South had an exciting
two-point win over Geelong,
which finished determinedly,
10.10-10.8.
Port Adelaide, led by S.A.’s
captain-coach Fos Williams, is
again dominating the
competition this
year, and is well on the road to
its fourth successive premier-
ship. After the series on
Queen’s Birthday weekend,
exactly halfway through the
minor rounds, Port had a clear
four-point lead from West
Torrens, the only side which
has given the Magpies a fright
this year. Port, undefeated, has
been on top of the table all
through, except after the third
game, when it was temporarily
displaced (by a mere 0.1 per
cent.) by Glenelg. The fright
from Torrens came/ in the
seventh series, when Port, after
looking a beaten team,
managed to kick its 19th
behind right on the siren, to
make it a draw (10.19-12.7).
• • • •
“Bicky”: “Old Pivot” (B.
19/6/’57) is also off the target
when he states that Hawthorn
(V.F.L.) this year had its first
win on the Essendon ground
for 20 years. The Hawks
defeated the Dons 10.10-9.11
at Windy Hill on May 28, 1955.
* * *
When the N.S.W. Rugby
Leaguesters whipped Queens-
land in Brisbane a couple of
months ago exultant whoops
were heard about Australia’s
great chance of winning the
World Cup. The whoops turned
to dismay and despair with the
choice of Australia’s 18 for the
series (from whom the teams
must be picked), particularly
as regards the four or five
Queenslanders in the 18 and
the failure of the selectors to
“cover” the key positions.
Prayers were offered that none
.of the reserves would have to
be called upon.
After Australia had defeated
N.Z. in its first World Cup
game, three key men injured,
did, in fact, have to be replaced
from the reserves; but the
“makeshift” Australian XIII,
with two or three men playing
out of position, thrashed Eng-
land 31-6 on Queen’s Birthday r
and, in the rain and the mud
last Saturday, overwhelmed an
improved France 26-9. And so,
after all, Auttralia won the
second World Cup.
• • • •
It seems clear that N.S.W.’s
big wins over Queensland
should be acknowledged as due
more to the great strength of
N.S.W., the basis of the Aus-
tralian team, than to any
peculiar weakness of Northern
football. To single-out two
different pairs, N.S.W. and Aus-
tralian captain Poole and his
partner in the centre, Wells, are
clever and speedy, fit to rank
with the greatest centres ; while
the same can be said of the
second-row pair, Provan and
O'Shea (the latter, of course,
hails from Queensland). At
the same time Australia did
have luck with its selection —for
instance, McCaffery (who did
a great job as half after the loss
of Holman, though he hadn't
played behind the scrum for
six years!) was only added to
the reserves when five-eighth
Banks withdrew; McCaffery
was one of Australia’s stars,
and, if he hadn’t been in the
squad, it’s doubtful if Australia
would have found an adequate
replacement for Holman. By
design or not, McCaffery was
certainly “reserved” for the
Cup'—he wasn’t picked in any
of the earlier rep. games.
* * *
Peter Thomson put up a
sterling performance in the
“Evening News’s” Yorkshire
tournament, playing machine-
like golf and reeling off a 72-
hole record of 65, 67, 64, 68 —
264 —to break the previous
record of 266 held jointly by
Dick Burton and Bobby Locke.
Thomson won £stgsoo, and has
an obviously first-rate chance
of making his British Opens
four in a row.
* * *
Mixed-grill: England, with-
out Laker and Lock, defeated
West Indies in the second
cricket Test by an innings and
36 runs, with two days to
spare ; Bailey, in what was his
50th Test, took 11 for 98 in
the match.. . .Ashley Cooper
won the Queen’s Club tennis-
title, 6-8, 6-2, 6-3, from fellow-
Aussie Neale Fraser, who had
won the title last year....ln
Wellington (N.Z.), N.Z. and
Hong Kong drew 1-all in
the first Soccer Test.... In
Adelaide, in the National
code, Victoria defeated S.A.
17.21-15.11... .At Day ton
(Ohio) Merv Lincoln, with a
strong finish, won the U.S.
mile championship in 4min.
6.lsec., and thus won four of
his five mile-runs in America.
* * *
“C.A.A.”: News that spinner
Bruce Dooland, who’s been a
big success in English league
and county cricket, intends to
return to Adelaide permanently
and be available for first-class
matches is good for Australian
cricket, with the present dearth
of good spin-bowlers. Dooland
will be eligible to play against
England in 1958-59. This is not
a remote possibility: though
he’s 34, that’s not too old for
a ' spin - bowler —CI arr i e
Grimmett, for one, was well
into his thirties before he first
represented Australia.
Surrey opening - batsman
Michael Stewart recently took
seven catches in the one innings
—a world-record in first-class
cricket for a fieldsman not the
wicketkeeper. Best previous
effort was Wally Hammond’s
six fielding in slips, Walter
three times held six in an
innings.
* * *
“Tom”: Soccer players
commonly have a longer career
than their Rugby counterparts,
but surely no Australian foot-
baller of any code can match
the record of Fred Whitehead.
He first played Soccer for Bal-
main (Sydney) in 1912, when he
was 17. Now, nearing his 62nd
birthday, he regularly turns out
with Northbridge A-grade
Soccer team. He also plays
A-grade cricket with the junior
Northern Suburbs Association.


Divorce Notice
IN I'llK SUPREME COURT OK NEW
SO ITT H WALES. — Tv Divorce.
TO HUGH ALEXANDER YOUNG late
of Olvde.—TAKE NOTICE that
PHYLUS YOUNG has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1584 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
•in appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 26th day of' August 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
107-169 Elizabeth Street. Sydney, New
South Wales. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Missing Friend
TO .IOHN WILLI AM MILLER tovmeily
of 219 Addcrley Street West Melbourne
in the State of Victoria .but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife MARY ELLEN MILLER of
270 Main Road St. Albans in the State
of Victoria has filed a Petition for
Divorce against you in the Supreme
Court of Victoria which Petition is
numbered 1571 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without cause continuously
for three years and upwards If you
intend to defend, this suit you must
enter an appearance at the office of the
Prothonotary Supreme Court Law Courts
Melbourne on or before the 20th day of
July 1957 and flie an answer at that
office on or before the 30th day 'of
July 1957 Should you fail to do this
the suit will proceed in your absence
and you may be ordered to pay costs.
A copy of the Petition and Citation and
the Petitioner's Affidavit in support of
her Petition may be obtained by you
without charge on application to the
Petitioner's Solicitors whose address it
hereunder: KIERNAN & FORREST, Cnr.
Peel and Victoria Streets, West Mel-
bourne, C. 3.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Whereabouts of old vaudeville
actor Leonard Nelson?
Personal reminiscences of
Brookong station by anyone who
has worked on the property (wanted
by present owners). —6535.
To buy Minerals of Western Aus-
tralia, by E. S. Simpson (Perth,
1948-51; 3 vols.); F. A. Simpson's
Parliament in New Zealand
(Wellington, 1947); M. A. Smith’s
The Fauna of British India (Part
3: Serpentes, 1943); B. Spencer’s
Handbook of Melbourne (Sydney,
1900); Spender and Wallace's
Company Law and the Statistical
Register of the Colony ... of
Western Australia for 1897 and
previous years (Perth, 1899). —6533.
To buy “Steele Rudd's” Sandy’s
Selection (1904); E. Steere’s A
Memoir of Edward Steere, Third
Missionary Bishop in Central Aus-
tralia; F. L. Stillwail’s The Meta-
morphic Rocks of Adelie Land (Aus-
tralian Antarctic expedition 1911-
1914; scientific reports. Series A HI,
part 1; 1918); A. K. Stout's
Documentary Films (1944); A. T.
Strong’s Four Studies (edited by
R. C. Bald, Adelaide, 1932);
Structure and Capacity of Australian
Manufacturing Industries (Mel hr.,
1952; Department of National
Development).—6s34.
To buy Pen-drawings by Norman
Lindsay (published by Sydney Ure
Smith, 1918).—6536.
*
V
Information Sought *
Some information on the Aus~
Italian dog the barb ?
The barb, says Robert Kaleski's
Australian Barker $ and Biters, from
which these facts are taken, is first-
cousin to the kelpie. One grandpup
ot Kelpie, the bitch owned by
C B. W. King, of Wollongough (see
reply to T.B. in Brief Answers), was
black and prick-eared. Fathered by
Moss, a dog owned by one Cox, this
pup was given to Cox, who in turn
handed him to an aborigine, Davis,
working for him. Davis soon after-
wards left Cox, and went to work on
Bunawang, down the Lachlan, tak-
ing with him Barb, as he was called.
Barb proved a great worker, and
Edols, the owner of Burrawang,
bought him. His pups all took
after him, and were called Barb’s
pups, and then simply barbs. There
is a difference between barbs and
kelpies, noticeable in their different
styles of working sheep; reason is
that the barb throws back to the
border smooth collie while the
kelpie throws back to the fox.
* * * *
What am the simple treatment for
fcotrot in sheep given in The
Bulletin’s “Handy Hints for the
Form” ? (My copy has been lost.)
To be successful, Handy ’ Hints
said, the trough method of treat-
ment for footrot must be persisted
in, especially in case of badly-
infected sheep and in wet localities.
“The sheep should be run through
the trough at least once a month—
once a fortnight in very wet
weather. Some favor bluestone
(about 6oz. to the gallon); others
claim to get just as good results
fiom a mixture of quicklime,
sulphur and a small amount of
arsenic. If the sheep are thirsty
the latter wash has certainly much
to commend it—sheep won't ■ drink
i f . In the case of badly-infected
sheep, direct application is the only
real remedy. Melt lard and add
flowers of sulphur and arsenic m
proportions of 4-4-1. While still
hot, add kerosene until the mixture
is of the consistency of tar. When
using, pare the hoof and brush on
tire mixture. Then dip the hoof in
boiled linseed-oil or shellac to
protect dressing from wet, and keep
sheep on battens or in a dry, bare
yaird for an hour or more, by which
time the shellac or oil should be
dry.” When the footrot is first
noticed, sheep should be yarded and
their feet carefully trimmed and,
where practicable, the rot cut-out.
The animals should then be walked
through the solution, a strong
w'ooden trough being a suitable
seceptacle. (Bluestone dissolves more
readily in hot water.) Handy Hints
concluded by pointing out that the
"I think I beat you by at least four inches , Julia."
treatment is not infallible, particu-
larly where the disease had already
leached an advanced stage.
* * * *
Is it possible or practicable to
produce energy from the waves of
the sea?
This question was referred to the
C.5.1.R.0., and w-as answered by
Lewis Lewis, officer-in-chargc Indus-
trial Research Liaison Section. He
cites an article entitled “Energy in
the Future,” by Professor F. E.
Simon, in the journal “Discovery”
of May, 1952, which fully answers
the question. Professor Simon says
that “It is quite true that the waves
represent considerable amounts of
energy, but I shall single-out this
example to show that not every store
of energy, however obvious, is worth
tapping.” He goes on to show that,
to produce 10,000 kilowatts, an area
of 10 x 2000-metres of outside
the shore-line would have to be
covered with machinery; that
machinery designed to utilise slow
motion like that of the waves would
be clumsy and inefficient; that the
whole system would have to oe able
to stand up to storm conditions; in
addition it must also be able to
store energy to provide against
periods of calm. “It is clear,” the
professor concludes, “that any
saving of coal would be bought by
,much too great an effort. It is thus
obvious that utilising the energy in
the waves, although not impossible,
has no future for large-scale power-
production, and we would be m a
sorry state if we had to depend on
it.”
Brief Answers
W.E.8.: "Men must endure
The;ir going hence, even as their
coming hither: Ripeness is all” is
lrom Act V scene ii of Shakspeare’s
“King Lear”..., Warrembool:
Thanks for the statistics on
McCabe's great innings, but, as
you've probably noticed since writing
in, they have already been printed
on the Service page (B. 22/5/’57).
H.L.: Get in touch with either
Anmial Health Products Pty., Ltd.,
66-/L Shepherd-sti eet, Chippendale,
O! Dog hoods Pty., Ltd., 69 Parkes-
Street, Ryde (both N.S.W.)
T. 8.: (1) According to the old Aus-
Italian Encyclopedia, a black-and-
tar. sheep-bitch called Kelpie, of
rnknnwn nedirree was mated with
LPKnoyn pedigree, was mated witn
a pup, owned
by fclliot and Allen, on GeraJdra
station, near Forb'es (N.S.W.). One
pup resembled her so much that she
also named Kelpie, and was
taken by C B W King of
Wollongough ‘ station, * also near
r.- mnrtf L’
Forbes. At 1_ months old she was
entered in the first sheepdog trials
ever held in the Commonwealth (at
Forbes), and won easily. Her pups
then became in great demand, and
were called Kelpie’s pups, and then
Simply kelpies. (2) No information.
rni - m A Richard P I ritch
. .. .J.U.L.. 1A Kicnara P. Leitcn,
Who exhibited in the Royal
Academy in 1860, visited Egypt, and
painted there. Two of his water-
colors of Egypt, “Views of Egypt”
aryl "Views of Luxor,” are in the
Victoria and Albert Museum, Lon-
don. (2) Consult the director of the
Brisbane Art Gallery, who will be
able to advise. (3) If they are
originals, galleries and large
institutions would be interested....
W.E.8.: Write Independent
Theatre, Miller-street, "North Sydney
(N.5.W.).... A.H.E.H.: (1) Write
Press Feature Service Ply., Ltd.,
149 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (2)
Don't know of any... .G.V.8.: (1)
Neera means sun; Neerea, rest;
Neerloong, waterhen; Neeworra,
star; Neeyangarra, eagle; Nerri-
gundah, camp where edible berries
grow. (2) Unable to trace
Biownie: (1) Murray Rose was bom
in Great Britain, but came to Aus-
tralia with his parents as a baby.
He would have been eligible to swim
fo either Britain or Australia at
lhe 1956 Olympic Games. (21
Knowledge of their parents’
country of birth would only be
obtainable by writing to the men
themselves, or their parents. Both
soldier and boxer have English sur-
names, so the answer in both cases
is probably Great Britain —unless
the two are second- or third-
generation .... A.T.L.: It means
"Blessed are the pure of heart”....
A.L.V.: But there isn’t any “most
eastern part of the world” —every
place on earth is east and west,
north and south, of all other places,
the only possible exceptions being
the two Poles. If you reword your
question we will have a crack at it.
E.T.: (1) Licences for private
imports are given only in special
circumstances —for instance, when
a high-grade musical instrument
unobtainable locally is wanted for
orchestral work. (2) 124 per cent.
ad valorem, plus 5 per cent, primage-
duty. (3) Duty and primage, plus
J2j per cent, sales-lax; approx.
£35 on a value of £100....
J.K.A.G.: (1) Sorry, but we have no
copies of that booklet left now.


' ?
r/
HI
ill
i?
■ • : ■
Nothing could
be finer •..
Take a length of the finest,
pure wool cloth you can find
in Australia.
Look for a tailor
whose fingers have all the magic
of an old-time craftsman.
Bring them together,
and what’s the result ?
Stamina De Luxe Slacks.
Fine Slacks, these
Australia’s best.
»
CLOTHES
■§
yastifinzz&wl
T 8.113
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
(2j Write N.S.W. Taxpayers’
Association, 11c Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. sho’uld be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered )or publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
Rocky Hill: A pity we have to
cut short your
... .E.E.8.: They do “abound” with
emeralds, etc Derek; No, you
could not use those initials. They
are owned by Another... .E.E.P.:
Why are the willows “selective as
lance”?... .J.T.W.; “Then time
lur some beer” is a fine, ringing
conclusion to your poem, but per-
haps you'd do better to take a gallon
or two before you start... .N.E.A.:
Don’t “scribble them down”; boil
them down and you might con-
ceivably write a passable ballad....
A.C.P.: “Socrates” given the hem-
lock once again... .P.D.R.; Liked
your watchband, except that it got
a bit frayed at the end. Come
again Bindy: Windy
C.M.G.: Amiable but amateurish.
. ...D.C.C.: You might hole-out
in a golfing paper... .A.C.P.:
“Love” has been gently divorced....
R.F.; A most pathetic and elevating
tale:
. ...E.E.W.: “’Tishere! Tis gone!
Its frenzied dash Portentous to the
seeing eye.” By jove, it did go,
didn’t it? J.C.: “Love Won’t
Wait” didn’t linger Coolaroo:
Put it in the cooler E. 8.: Not
quite clear what you mean by “For
the death of the moon is morned.”
S.J.A.: In all that bush you’re
bushed.
MEMORIES OF THE PAST.
Your lips so red, your face so sweet.
Your big, brown eyes, your small, dainty
feet.
They all bring memories,
Mtm&ries of one 1 held most dear.
Of one who stood before me,
Trembling with fear.
It was our wedding night ....
On the pub steps I was sitting
When Bula said “Good-day.’'
He stopped ana sat down beside me
While others went their way.
Not noticed by my previous friends,
Belriended by a black
I sat depraved, all worn and pale,
And fallen from the pack.
Yes, I had seen much better days,
For I was once on top ;
And I had friends from far and wide,
Before 1 had my drop.
He stopped, amazed, and shook my
hand,
Unlike my kinsman folk ;
His eyes betrayed his deep concern
For me, a dirty soak.
“My friend,” said he, in deep soft tone,
“What devil grips you so?
I knew you, sir, two years ago—
You helped when 1 was low.”
“My friend, Bula, I know you, man,
But bother not with me;
There are white folks who owe me more
And pass without ‘How-de.’ ”
So to my friend my tale I told—
He listened earnestly ;
And when I’d done he smiled wanly
And said, “Please come with me.”
And I did go and through his help
Reclaim myself again ;
He cared for me just like a child ;
And nursed me back to fame.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.S. CHINA POLICY
CJUMMING-UP the British
reasoning behind the U.K.
Government’s decision—against
American wishes —to relax its
embargo on trade with Red
China, London “Daily Tele-
graph” points out that “ever
since 1951, when the Korean
war was at its height, Britain
has scrupulously applied a
comprehensive trade-embargo
against China”:
“The original purpose of this
embargo was to hamper the
Chinese war - effort. Since
China was at war with the
Allies, whereas the Soviet
Union was not, it was quite
natural that the list of goods
denied to China should be much
greater than that denied to the
Soviet Union.
“But it is now four years
since the Korean armistice.
The argument that China,
having been condemned as an
aggressor by the United
Nations, is in a morally inferior
position to the Soviet Union,
and should therefore be treated
more severely, hardly holds
water after Hungary. The
British Government’s decision,
therefore, that with China
will in future be governed by
the same rules as govern trade
with the Soviet Union and her
satellites simply removes an
increasingly pointless and
vexatious anomaly.”
Britain’s Argument
In face of American objec-
tions, the “D.T.” adds, “the
strongest argument of all in our
[Britain’s] favor is that what-
ever may be the rights or
wrongs of a specially stringent
Chinese embargo, it is just not
fulfilling its intended purpose:
“Many products whose sale
to China is forbidden are pur-
chased by the Soviet Union or
its satellites and sold to China.
This means that China’s
expanding industry gets what it
needs, but only at the price of
enforced and from our
[Britain's] viewpoint undesir-
able —reliance on the Soviet
Union. It is highly doubtful,
therefore, whether the embargo
in any serious way damages
the Chinese. What it most
certainly does do, however, is
to deny to British exporters a
new market which, although
not yet large, has great poten-
tial attraction.
“The British decision,” the
“D.T.” concludes, “is not a
retaliation against Mr. Dulles.
It is simply a good example of
a country that lives by trade
acting in accordance with both
commonsense and self-interest,
in a way that neither harms its
friends nor benefits its
enemies.”
American View
Going by the U.S. press-
comment, American feeling
over the British action is
roughly 50-50. Supporting
the official “disappointment,”
David Lawrence comments in
“New York Times” that “the
—London “Doily Mirror"
“O WALL, FULL OFTEN HAST THOU HEARD MY
MOANS ..."
British are repeating a fal-
lacious argument they have
made often in the past —
namely, that, since the goods
can go into Soviet Russia, it is
illogical to bar direct shipment
to Red China of goods now
going there indirectly.
“The answer is that at present
it costs the Soviets and the Red
Chinese lots of money and
takes a great deal of valuable
freight-space to send the goods
over the Trans-Siberian railway
from Russia to China. Like-
wise, it is expensive to send by
long sea-voyage from Britain
cargoes that can only be landed
either in Eastern European
ports or carried to Siberian
coastal ports—and all this with
great difficulty and delay in
certain seasons of the year.
“Why should things be made
easier for the Red Chinese, and
the expenses of Soviet Russia
cut down and her internal
burden with scarce goods
eased? These are questions
which the British have not
satisfactorily answered.”
In further explanation of the
official U.S. attitude, James
Reston, also in “N. Y. Times,”
notes that “there is strong feel-
ing in the [U.S.] State Depart-
ment on two aspects of this
problem. The first is against
the British for going against
what the State Department
feels was the sentiment of most
of the Governments concerned
for the maintenance of a
tougher trade-policy toward
Peking than toward Moscow.
“The second is a feeling of
resentment in the State Depart-
ment toward the press for what
Mr. Robertson [U.S. Assistant
Secretary of State for Far
Eastern Affairs] regards as a
failure to give adequate display
to the official statement of the
United States on the trade-with-
China question.
“Mr. Robertson is speaking a
great deal in public and in
private and repeating state-
ments that emphasise the un-
changing attitude of the United
States Government towards
Peking.
“Here are a few representa-
tive quotes from the published
texts of his recent speeches:
“ ‘Let no one say we are
denying representation of
600,000,000 Chinese. The
defiant Marxist impostors in
Peking come no closer to repre-
senting the true interests,
aspirations and will of the
Chinese people than William
Z. Foster [leader emeritus of
the United States Communists]
comes to representing the will
and aspirations of the American
people.’
“ ‘Our Government is
opposed to any action whicn
would create international
prestige for this [Peking]
regime.’
“ ‘The National Government
[of China] is a symbol, the only
rallying point in the world for
non-Communist Chinese, the
only alternative to Communism
for millions of Chinese on the
mainland and throughout
South-east Asia. If the National
Government should be liquid-
ated, some 12,000,000 overseas
Chinese would automatically
become citizens of Red China
and potential cells of infiltration
and subversion against the
Governments of the countries
where they reside.’ ”
Suez Reactions?
Editorially, the “N. Y. Times”
shows rather more sympathy
for the’ British decision. The
British Government, it com-
ments, has exercised “the same
right to dissent which President
Eisenhower invoked in respect
to its military action in Egypt”:
“In so far as this action
imposes a new strain on Anglo-
American relations and on free-
world solidarity, it is, as the
State Department says, ‘most
disappointing.’ It cuts the list
of embargoed goods almost in
half and therewith eases the
economic pressure on the
Communist regimes in Asia
and Europe.
“Just before there is too
great an outcry over this
action, to the detriment of the
alliance system which is the
bulwark of our defence, it is
necessary to realise that in a
society of free nations differ-
.ences are bound to arise and
to recall the wise advice of
President Eisenhower that ‘we
must approach these things
with intelligence and with a
regard for our own long-range
welfare.’ No doubt the frus-
trations of the Egyptian
venture contributed to the
domestic pressure for an ‘inde-
pendent’ British policy. But
the pressure for larger trade
with Communist China by a
country which recognises the
Peking regime is of long
standing, and its basis is
primarily economic.”
In further comment on the
relation between the American
attitude on Suez and Britain’s
relaxation of the embargo on
trade with China, London
“Time and Tide” notes that
until the Suez disillusion a
Conservative Government


Colonial Sugar Co.’s Report
The chairman of directors of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company, Sir Edward
Knox, addressed shareholders at a meeting on 19th June. He reported on the
company’s various manufacturing activities in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji, and
referred to recent developments in the Australian sugar industry and in world sugar
markets. Some of the main points from his speech are:
SOME POINTS FROM THE REPORT
Australian production of raw sugar
Total production of raw sugar from all Australian raw sugar mills
for the 1956 season was 1,187,000 tons, of which 233,000 was
produced at C.S.R. mills.
Australian exports of raw sugar
Exports of raw sugar from Australia's 1956 season’s production
will be about 660,000 tons, valued at about £28,000,000. About
5 1 5,000 tons will be refined in Australia for home consumption.
International Sugar Agreement
The working of the International Sugar Agreement was reviewed
at conferences held during 1956, and, subject to agreement by
some Governments, will operate until end of 1958.
British Commonwealth Sugar Agreement
Conferences in London during 1956 between British Common-
wealth raw sugar exporters (including Australia and Fiji) and the
U.K. Government agreed upon a slightly higher “negotiated”
price for raw sugar under the terms of the agreement.
Raw sugar prices on world “free” market
Present high price for raw sugar on the world free market
(caused mainly by the Suez crisis, poor cane crops in Cuba and
poor beet crops in Europe) is essentially non-permanent. What
advantage Australia and Fiji will gain from it for the 195 7 crop
largely depends on price levels from now on.
Bulk raw sugar installations in Queensland
The bulk raw sugar loading terminal at Mackay will be operating
for the coming season. Terminals at Lucinda Point and New
Bundaberg are being constructed and are expected to operate
in 1958. Preliminary work has started on the terminal at
Townsville.
Production of raw sugar by C.S.R.
The Company's seven Austra-
lian mills produced 233,000
tons. For 195 7, the prospects
for our Queensland mills are
satisfactory, although dry con-
ditions in New South Wales will
result in low crops there.
Production of raw sugar from
our five Fiji mills was 134,500
tons in 1956. The crop was
badly affected by floods and
gales.
RAW SUGAR PRODUCTION AT THE COMPANY’S M’LLS
N.S.W. Queensland. Fiji. Total Tons.
1952 .. .. 13,900 172,600 130,300 316,800
1953 .. .. 33,000 202,800 191,000 426,800
1954 .. .. 24,700 230,400 132,900 388,000
1955 .. .. 34,800 196,200 163,100 394,100
1956 .. .. 34,700 198,500 134,500 367,700
1957* .. .. 34,600 227,700 177,000 439,300
* 1957 figures are estimated.
An instrument panel in a C.S.R. sugar refinery
Control of manufacturing processes try automatic instruments ensures more
even and regular flow of materials and maximum use of plant capacity.
“Instrumentation” provides a means of getting more production out of
existing plant and is thus a method of increasing productivity.
Refined sugar in Australia
For the year ended 31st March,
195 7, sales of sugars and syrups
from our five Australian re-
fineries were 485,000 tons,
compared with 492,000 tons in
the previous year and 478,000
tons in 1955.
New Zealand
Sales of refined sugar products
from our Auckland refinery
amounted to 99,700 tons for
the year ended 31st March,
195 7. This is a small increase
of 1.2% over the previous year.
Bulk granulated
refined sugar
The first deliveries in bulk of
standard granulated refined
sugar are expected to begin in
Sydney to some large users
early next year.
Distilleries
A satisfactory level of sales of
distillery products has been
maintained in the past year.
Ocean vessels
Following the sale of “Rona" in
April, 1956, the remaining two
vessels, “Fiona” and “Tambua”
continued to carry molasses
with some sugar and general
cargo.
The new “Rona” was
launched at Aberdeen on I sth
January.
Building materials
division
There was a marked falling off
'n the volume of building con-
struction last year as compared
with the previous year.
Factory, office and commer-
cial building remained at about
the same level, but housing de-
clined. Because of this there
was some slackening of demand
for a number of the building
materials we manufacture.
But, with increased demand
for Vinylflex floor tiles and
for asbestos fibre, the total
value of sales from the Division
remained much the same as for
last year.
Sir Edward Knox, chairman
of the C.S.R. Company.
There is an encouragingly
strong demand abroad and a
satisfactory market developing
in Australia for the high quality
blue asbestos fibre produced at
Wittenoom by our subsidiary,
Australian Blue Asbestos Ltd.
It has been decided, therefore,
to expand the plant to step up
production over the next two
years to a rate of 25,000 tons
per annum. Sales of blue fibre
for the year ended 31st March,
1957, amounted t'o 10,018 tons
and production is now at the
rate of 12,000 tons per annum.
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
(60% C.S.R.)
The past year saw further im-
provement in the sales situation
and in the general prospects of
the chemicals made at Rhodes
and Lane Cove factories. The
increase in value of salea over
the previous year was 14%.
Particularly pleasing was the
steady improvement as the year
progressed in the amount
cellulose acetate flake sold for
the production of acetate rayon.
While the year was mainly
one of consolidation, a decision
has been made to extend the
polystyrene plant to manufac-
ture a special toughened type of
this plastic, in addition to
“S*arex” our ordinary general
purpose polystyrene.
Senior officers of C.S.R.
Chemicals are at present over-
seas obtaining information on
several other new projects
which appear promising.


GUARD
cu
PROTECTA
sUtxl-$iU fitgiiiLfuiuJ
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it record*
»I 1 Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
I>istrlhutin( A (mil —-
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE .
I’ERTU .
W, C. Penfold b Ce. Ply. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
. Vardan Price Ltd.
a Docket Book Ca. (kukl
could justify anything a
Socialist Government almost
anything—by arguing that it
served the Anglo-American
alliance. No political pressure-
group had a chance against the
solid phalanx of bipartisan
pro-Americanism.
“Suez, however, has changed
all this. Tell an impatient
businessman today that he
cannot trade with China
because this would embarrass
Mr. Dulles and, instead of
convincing him that such
trading is undesirable, you will
have convinced him that it is
absolutely indispensable. In
other words pro-Americanism
has become more of a political
liability than a political asset.
To some extent, at any rate,
Mr. Macmillan’s switch of
policy can probably be
explained on this ground.
“But had this been the sole
ground, the decision to lift the
embargo would have been
highly irresponsible. The only
real justification would be
advice from the Washington
Embassy that America no
longer felt so passionately
about the matter. To have
risked a major provocation of
the United States —and par-
ticularly of Congress for
what can only be a marginal
commercial advantage, would
have been to cut off our nose to
powder our face. It is only
reasonable to assume, there-
fore, that we felt fairly certain
that our action would no
longer arouse the transatlantic
storm that it certainly would
have done six months or a year
ago.
Formosa Riots
“Although it is still too early
to be sure, it looks as if the
Foreign Office, guessed
correctly. Mr. Knowland,
popularly known as the
Senator from Formosa, has
protested vigorously ; the State
Department has expressed
disappointment and regret;
but, on the whole, Britain’s
decision to ‘go it alone’ has
been accepted as inevitable.
“American reaction would
probably have been very much
less resigned if the British
announcement had not
happened to coincide with mass
rioting on Formosa. This
demonstration of violent anti-
Americanism by Chinese
Nationalists showed up in
spectacular fashion the bank-
ruptcy of America’s own
China policy. Formosa is
meant to be the shop-window
showpiece of America in Asia.
The noise of Uncle Sam’s own
shattered glass in Formosa
made it far harder for
American critics to draw
attention to the alleged
damage being done by John
Bull in the China shop. In
other words, faced with new
evidence of the failure of their
China policy it was very
difficult for the Americans to
blame Britain for trying some-
thing new.”
An American—Walter Lipp-
mann in New York “Herald
Tribune” —who appears to
agree largely that the anti-
American riots in Formosa
have thrown further doubts on
America’s China policy,
comments that the key to this
— N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
“THAT DRIP, DRIP, DRIP IS DRIVING ME CRAZY.”
policy is “the fact that besides
the Chinese in Formosa, there
are some 10-million Chinese in
South-east Asia. In Singapore,
they are three-quarters of the
population. In Malaya, they
are two-fifths of the population.
“The object of our
[America’s] China policy is to
keep the overseas Chinese
separated from the Red
Chinese Government, and thus
to prevent it from ruling and
from representing all the
Chinese.”
This policy, Lippmann adds,
had a “credible foundation”
so long as overseas Chinese
c'Ould believe that the
Nationalist Government had
hopes of fighting its way back
to the government of all of
China. That “credible founda-
tion” disappeared when, “in
1955, President Eisenhower
asked Congress for a guarantee
of Formosa and the near-by
islands, and also took the
necessary measures to prevent
Chiang from making warlike
moves against the mainland.
Indeed, the President put an
end to the idea that the
United States would back an
invasion of the mainland. He
went even further and made it
clear that the United States
would not permit Chiang to
attempt an invasion. All this
was, no doubt, a sound and
prudent diplomatic action to
prevent dangerous and foolish
adventures.
“But it broke the back of
our [America’s] China policy.
It deprived the Chinese in
Formosa of any hope that they
could return to the mainland
except by coming to terms with
Red China. Ever since then
our China policy has had no
future.”
A New Policy
The rational solution now,
Lippmann concludes, is “what
is called the Two Chinas
Policy— to establish Formosa
as an independent and neutral-
ised State under the protection
of the United Nations as part
of the bargain which admitted
Red China to the United
Nations.
“Both Chinese Governments
arc on record against such a
solution. But it as still the best,
and indeed the only, solution
which corresponds to the whole
reality of the Chinese situation
—to the fact that there is a
Chinese community which is
opposed to placing itself under
Communist rule, and that there
is on the mainland of China a
powerful Government which
cannot be ignored.
“The question is whether it
is too late to deal with the
situation by a negotiated com-
promise, like the Two Chinas
Policy. If it is too late, then,
unless the improbable happens
and there is a counter-revolu-
tion on the Chinese mainland,
we [America] must look
forward —with the Formosa
riots as a warning sign— to
the disintegration of our China
policy.”
Soviet Youth
Commentators—there have
been several lately—who fore-
see trouble for the Soviet
Government in the attitude of
Russian youth are perhaps
over-hopeful. The behavior of
youth, London “Daily Tele-
graph” notes in reference to
British Intelligence’s alleged
interest in university students,
often has “no relation to what
men really think or will in
fact eventually do”:
“The oddest thing perhaps is
that the [British] Government
should apparently set such
store by w'hat passes for
rhetoric in undergraduate
debate or for action in the
extravagances of student social
life. Few men worth their salt
could stand up to a playback
of the annals of youth without
some embarrassment.”
Be that as it may, Allen
Kassof, writing in the American
bimonthly “Problems of Com-
munism,” notes that the Soviet
authorities view “with par-
ticular gravity the erosion of
what may be summarised as the
production ethic —a moral posi-
tion, promulgated by the
regime, which holds labor and


88©
Fly 8.0.A.C.
by the newest,
fastest airliners
in the world
Fly 8.0.A.C. and you fly by the world’s finest airliners around the world.
Superb jet-prop “Whispering Giant” Britannias operate between Australia and
Britain, South Africa and Britain. DC-7C airliners provide the fastest trans-
American and trans-Atlantic travel between San Francisco, New York and
London. For relaxing comfort, incomparable food, personal attention plus
swift effortless air travel, fly 8.0.A.C. every time. Frequent De-Luxe, Firrt
Class and Tourist services.
See your Travel Agent for trip-planning help—no charge.
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents and
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd. ( 8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
i^Vj
mjga
>L
World leader in air travel
takes good care of you
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A73/AU
production to be positive values
per se” :
“The philosophical roots of
the concept can be traced in
part to the pre-eminent position
which Marxian thought accords
to labor and its products. A
more practical interpretation,
however, sees its origins in the
programme of forced industri-
alisation in the Soviet Union.
He who is willing to produce
much and consume little —
thereby contributing to the
rapid growth of the ‘material
base of Socialism’ —is the hero.
“Opposed to this kind of
orientation is a set of values
which can be called the con-
sumption or leisure ethic,
and which is anathema
to Soviet ideology. It
involves the assumption that
leisure and consumption are the
higher values, and that produc-
tive efforts are simply means
to the greater end of consump-
tion. The Soviets describe such
an outlook as evil, immoral, and
even counter-revolutionary.
“Part of what seems to be
happening among Soviet youth
is a shift in the new generation
away from acceptance of the
production ethic and toward
the attractions of the leisure
ethic as a way of life. The
official label for this pheno-
menon is bezdelnichestvo, or
idleness, although it involves a
good deal more. The culprits
who engage in it are variously
described as loafers, good-for-
nothings, petit-bourgeois souls,
and parasites.
‘While the forces which have
produced bezdelnichestvo date
far back in the history of the
Soviet system, it has emerged
as a full-blown problem only
m recent years. The growing
concern felt by the authorities
has been evidenced in a public
campaign of ‘anti-idleness’ pro-
paganda, waged intermittently
since shortly after Stalin’s
death, and in a number of other
combative steps.”
Various Voices
f^ r ' Charles Cook, president
°> Britain’s National Federation
0/ Bedding and Allied Trades :
TfJJ beds cause bad temper.
r Mr. Khrushchev would allow
Hs to design a bed for him, it
°uld do more good for inter-
national relations than any
umber of diplomatic
jamborees.”
Mr Duncan Sandys, explain-
ug Mr. Macmillan’s absen’ce
!' 0m the House of Commons
w. P er by Day: “The Prime
mister is attending an im-
portant meeting.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Exports to Malaya
Much of the criticism
levelled at Australian exporters
on the grounds of quality,
packaging and publicity is so
obviously justified and at
once so ill-heeded that not
enough has yet been said.
Appearance on shop-shelves
does much to sell food. Tins
carrying clean, bright labels
catch the buyer’s eye, and in
Malaya, where Australia
suffers international competi-
tion, sales are lost by drab
and colorless packaging. Our
goods almost always lose in
comparison with American,
South African and British
products.
Added to this, our goods
sometimes lack quality. I was
brought up in the Goulburn
Valley of Victoria in the firm
belief that tinned or bottled
fruit or juices produced there
were the world’s best quality.
The sad fact is that they are
not. In comparison with many
American brands (and this is
how the customer buys) our
fruit is too often pallid and
tasteless, and the syrup in
which it is packed is watery.
Our eggs are nothing to be
proud of, either. For five
years now 1 have been listening
to shopkeepers, sometimes un-
able to speak a word of Eng-
lish, apologising because “we
only have Australian eggs at
the moment.” They don’t
expect to sell them, for two
reasons. First, they are dearer.
That is natural: they have a
freight-surcharge and, anyhow*
are considerably bigger than the
local eggs. But the second
fault is one of quality—Aus-
tralian eggs sold in Malaya
have an anaemic, pale-yellow
yolk, sickly in appearance and
of floury consistency to eat.
Australian wines fail to reach
the market they deserve in
Malaya because of poor pub-
licity. There may be something
in the theory that most of the
distributors are English com-
panies, and have a vested
interest in selling wines from
other sources, but much could
be done to help Australian
wines to capture the small but
regular and selective market in
Malaya. In the five years I
have been here I have bought
wine regularly and often, but
on asking for whatever type
of wine I have wanted, I have
never yet been offered an Aus-
tralian brand. Yet every shop-
keeper from whom I have
bought has had our wines in
stock. Asked why they don’t
push the sales a bit more, the
sellers inevitably reply that
people do not ask for Aus-
tralian wine. Taking the
inquiry a step further, I have
discovered that people are quite
willing to try our wine, but do
not know that it is available or
do not know what to ask for.
We cannot go on like this.
With costs of production in
Australia already high, our
exporters must find markets
where the freight-increase on
selling-prices is low. Malaya
fits this well. There is another
reason why Malaya should be
a favorable market: there is
in Malaya a propensity to favor
us; Asian students returning
from Australian universities
and colleges are excellent
ambassadors. But if our ex-
porters do not take a concrete
and dynamic interest in cap-
turing the market,- it will soon
be too late.
Even if the business world
could afford the loss, and
could find alternatives, Aus-
tralia as a nation could not.
We have to have tin and
rubber, and these have to be
paid for. If we buy in Malaya
we must sell there, and sell
well. —K. L. W. (Malaya).
Religion and Politics
“Reveille” (B. 12/6/’57) gives
no real answer to the question
of religion and politics.
The so-called Santamaria
movement was an expression of
Catholic Action, a way of life
which obviously has its roots
in religion. It did not, how-
ever, attempt to dominate any-
one but lent support and leader-
ship to the industrial-groups in
practical and successful opposi-
tion to Communism.
It is a fact, also, that the
groups were not exclusively
Catholic, but included
Protestants and probably others
of no religious belief. In a
crisis of national importance
something had to be done and
done promptly to counter the
Communist grip on the trade-
union movement, and it was.
That such action found its
origin in a religious section of
the community is scarcely in
itself a just cause for suspicion.
I suggest that if a similarly well-
organised counter-attack had
been forthcoming from any
other source it would have
gained support.
It is simple for “Reveille” to
say that he would abandon his
vote for a member who steps
on to a political platform bang-
ing a sectarian drum. I would
do likewise, but that is not the
issue. It is not sectarianism to
fight for a principle against a
ruthless and atheistic tyranny
which, in triumph, would
certainly destroy our religious
and political institutions.
The article to which
“Reveille” replies (B. 24 /4 / *57)
is much more realistic in its
advocacy of various religious
denominations hammering-out
policy together.
Like “Reveille,” I have no
wish to be dominated by any
“ism,” least of all the one that
does so poorly on polling-days
but still manages to call the
tune so often in Labor circles.
—Xavier (Vic.).
“Pensions and Needs”
I was surprised that the
eminently sensible article
“Pensions and Needs” (B.
1/5/’57) made no mention of
Maoriland’s system, now in its
sixth year, of special provision
for certain groups of social-
security beneficiaries.
Since 1951 the Special
Assistance Fund established by
the N.Z. Government has


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWTS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSHII.IVAN
; A, PIT-DO. ...
[Ef)S
Jackson & O'Sullivan
P(y. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
■‘jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
“O.K., O.K. —pop it into that pickle-jar
We just emptied
been available to those who
have special commitments
which cannot be met out of
current income and who are
unable to help themselves.
Beneficiaries (aged, sick and
ethers) obtain extra cash to buy
special foods, or to pay for
nursing or domestic assistance,
extra firing, medical services
not available under the
medical- and health-benefit
scheme, and any other reason-
able expenditure above that
normally required in a house-
hold.
The fund caters for the very
needs to which Professor R. I.
Downing rightly draws atten-
tion. In an actual case which I
took up successfully with the
Government an aged couple—
wife sick and husband
paralysed strongly opposed
being sent to hospital. The
Government pays the couple
an extra £4 a week for part-
time nursing and domestic
assistance, which a relative of
the couple was willing to pro-
vide at that figure.
The cost of the fund has been
surprisingly low. Expenditure
for last year was only £163,334.
Of the 5336 applications
granted, 3666 were to age bene-
ficiaries, 565 to sickness, 376
to invalids, 404 to recipients of
widows’ benefits, and 325 to
other classes of beneficiaries.
The Digger has not been for-
gotten, for a similar scheme, the
W’ar Pensions Emergency
Assistance Fund, looks after
him.
The Government claims, and
charitable organisations con-
cur, that the two funds,
unknown until November,
1951, have abolished poverty in
Maoriland. There is agreement,
too, on the point that they are
preferable to all-round
increases in the basic rates —
though such increases have
been granted since 1951 because
of the general increases in
prices since then. —M- S. N.
(N.Z.).
“A Real Labor Policy”
“D.G.C.” (B. 29/5 / ’57)
should read my article again,
carefully. I see no salvation for
Labor in a new platform, unless
new leadership and new
horizons go with it.
As to the Liberals, I
advocated a “nation of little
capitalists.” The Liberals want
a few big capitalists and a
nation of wage-plugs who are
to be given high wages so that
they may buy back their
products at prices which will
make big capitalists bigger.
That may be better than any
Socialism we have seen so far,
but it is no't my idea by a long
shot. The Liberals get in when
our Labor leaders chase the
Socialisation will-o’-the-wisp
too far and we refuse to follow
them into the bog. We don’t
want Socialism —it won't work.
I cannot agree that the
only function for any political
party is to oppose. I
hope to see a revitalised
Labor party governing—inno-
vating, developing, building—
with the Liberals and
“D.G.C.’s” “new-sance” party
providing what opposition they
can.
Since I wrote that article, the
Labor scheme of things has
been shattered to bits in
Queensland even more
thoroughly than in other States.
There is now a unique oppor-
tunity to remould it, and the
best job of remoulding is
likely to be done where the
shattering has been most com-
plete.
Developments in Queensland
over the next year or two may
provide a lead for other States
and the Commonwealth ; but
if nothing better comes out of
the turmoil than a snarling
truce in the present dogfight,
then “D.G.C.’s” candidate in
this electorate may be sure,
when the time comes, of two
votes—his own and mine.—
Jas. Macansh (Q.).
Thomas J. Wise
If Mr. Aldington had “some-
thing of the manner of a pro-
secuting counsel” (Red Page,
B. 29/5/’57) in his dealing
with Wainewright, so too had
Wilfred Partington in his treat-
ment of the title role in Thomas
J. Wise in the Original Cloth.
Wise certainly stands con-
victed of literary forgery, but
he was much more than a mere
forger. Beginning with no
other apparent source of
income than his salary as clerk
in an oil-merchant’s office he
contrived to gather an amazing
collection of first editions and
similar literary treasures in his
Ashley library. This was
acquired by the nation at an
undisclosed figure (thought to
be somewhere about £80,000)
It is housed as a separate entity
in the British Museum. When
I sought to view the collection
I found the door of the room
locked, despite the presence of
an official at work within.
Wise was no “original state”
man. He favored rebinding,
chiefly in morocco, and his
merest trifles gloried in magni-
ficent casings of red and gold.
Nor was he merely a collector,
although as such and as a book-
man he was known throughout
Britain and America.
His bibliographical work and
catalogues were the fruits of
learning and labor. His stand-
ing in the literary world can be
judged by the fact that the
University of Oxford bestowed
on him an Honorary M.A.
degree. He established relations
with many of the leading
figures of the literary firmament
of his day. Of those delightful
characters, the antique book-
sellers of London, more than


mg
(W
i
AUSTRALIA'S FIRST
WOOLLEN MILL:, .40W
IN THEIR CENTENARY YEAR!
WOOLLEN MILLS LIMITED
£250,000
CENTENARY DEBENTURE ISSUE!
APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED FOR
FIRST MORTGAGE
Registered DEBENTURES
SECURED BY ASSETS IN EXCESS OF £500,000
5 YEAR
TERM at
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY, FREE OF EXCHANGE
ANI) GUARANTEED ON DIE DATE BY THE
STANDARD INSURANCE CO. LTD.
Every £lOO Invested Will Earn You £45!
Q'bi.s is a safe, unique opportunity to invest in a
VITAL NATIONAL INDUSTRY
PLEDGED TO THE SUPPORT AND POLLA R-EA RNING
DEVELOPMENT OF OUR GREATEST HERITAGE . . .
WOOL!
AN INVESTMENT OF THE HIGHEST ORDER
FULFILLING THE REQUIREMENTS OF ALL
INVESTORS
☆ HIGH INCOME EARNING (9% INTEREST RATE)
☆ UNQUALIFIED GUARANTEE OF INTEREST PAY-
MENT by the Standard Insurance Co. Limited
☆ COMPLETE SECURITY OF PRINCIPLE BY
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
LIST OF SECURITIES INCLUDE:
Freehold Land and Buildings: Properties; Real Estate;
Private Dwellings, etc., valued by W. J. Bradshaw and
Company, and Machinery and Plant, etc., valued by S. G.
Canavan & Sons.
The Company reserves the right to return all
deposits ij subscriptions do not exceed £lOO.OOO.
BANKERS:
A.N.fc. Bauk, Hunter St.,
Sydney.
AGENTS FOB THE ISSUE:
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., 163
Clarence St., Sydney. BX 1603,
BX 1170.
OFFICES FOR LODGMENT:
H. & S. Credits Pty. Ltd., 163
Clarence St., Sydney. BX 1603,
BX 1170.
H. & S. Credits (Newcastle!
Ltd., H. & S. House, Hunter
St., Newcastle. B 4202.
Incorporated Finance & In-
vestments Pty., Ltd., 468
Hunter St., Newcastle. 83075.
Lithgow Woollen Mills Ltd.,
Lithgow. Phone: 2347.
AUDITORS:
Griffiths. Grill. Love & Co.,
Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), 316 Pitt St., Sydney.
MA 9414.
SOLICITORS:
Roy P. Turner, K. H. Wilson
& Co.. National Mutual Build-
ing, 350 George St., Sydney.
BL 2766, BL 3292.
TRUSTEE FOR DEBEN-
TURE HOLDERS:
R. J. Griffiths, Esq., F.C.A.
(Aust.), of Griffiths. Grill,
Love & Co., Chartered
Accountants (Aust.). MA 9414.
PHONE 8X1733, 8X1603, BXII7O FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
SENI> THIS COUPON FOR PROSPECTUS J
■ To H. &S. Credits Pty. Ltd., 163 Clarence St., Sydney |
I Please send me a copy of the Fithgow Woollen Hills
! ltd. prospectus which, I understand, places me under .
J no obligation. 1
i MY NAME IS I
ADDRESS
IMPORTANT
ANNOUNCEMENT!
INTEREST PAYMENTS
ON THIS OUTSTANDING
INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITY
ARE GUARANTEED
BY THE
STANDARD INSURANCE co a.
one is prepared to talk of him,
not as the forger of pamphlets,
but rather as the wealthy and
knowledgeable collector.
Collector (S.A.).
The Australian Short Story
These past few years Aus-
tralian short stories have been
having a rough spin at the
hands of the critics. They have
been criticised because they are
“too Australian,” because they
rely too much on scenery,
because they emphasise remote
and rural settings, because they
deal exclusively with lower-
income groups, because the
plots have been too slight, too
“literary,” or because they
have avoided the post-war
scene.
Oddly enough writers haven't
much bothered to reply, but
(with a touch of cussedness)
have continued to write along
the same lines as they have
always done.
There are reasons for this
apparent obstinacy.
In the first place, there must
be a demand for their yarns.
Most of the readers live in
cities; if they wanted stories
with a city background they
would get them, but the
majority of those published
have an outback or at least a
country setting. It 9eems, there-
fore, that city-dwellers want to
read about the bush—Aus-
tralians are anxious to escape
from the humdrum of the
suburbs, at least in their read-
ing.
There are also an increasing
number of migrants who find
our bush more interesting
more novel—than our cities.
The flow of migrants con-
tributes in another way to the
Australian writer's stubborn
continuance in the national
tradition. This is his natural
reaction against the increasingly
cosmopolitan nature of our
society, a defence, either con-
scious or unconscious, of those
qualities which we have come
to regard as Australian charac-
teristics.
It shows itself in a number of
ways—in the more widespread
observance of Anzac Day, for
example, as well as in the
aggressively Australian flavor
of our stories. It may not be
an admirable characteristic, but
it is a natural one.
But there are also - writers
among the migrants, and some
of these, like Roland Robinson,
F. B. Vickers and Arthur
Upheld, also welcome the
exotic in our background and
use the new material as deftly
as the native-born.
Some critics say that it is not'
new, that the bush has had its
day and the pioneering has been
done, but that is inaccurate.
Despite our increasing indus-
trial activity, the larger pro-
portion of our national income
comes from farms and stations,
forests and mines.
The most exciting aspect of
our national iife at present is
the development that is going
on in places like the Mary
Kathleen, Rum Jungle and
Alligator River, the Snowy,
Wittenoom Gorge, Humpty
Doo and the Ord River. In-
stead of turning away from
the outback our writers could
look to it more for their themes.
Some critics are right in
saying that our writers avoid
the post-war scene. There are
a hundred stones to be found
in these places of men in con-
flict with the elements, of
ordinary people overcoming
extraordinary difficulties, suf-
fering tremendous setbacks and
hardships, and carrying on to
heroic achievements or homeric
defeats. This is the material
that some of our writers could
use today.
But it would mean a con-
tinuance of the strong Aus-
tralian flavor in their yarns, the
reliance on scenery, the rural
and remote backgrounds, the


fondness for the battler, th«
prospector, the miner, rather
than the company-director, the
bank-manager or the wealthier
urban types.
It would also mean a reten-
tion of the sardonic, that grim
humor, that lop-sided smile,
which is a necessary defence
against the frequently ironical
setbacks that are an inevitable
part of bush-life. —L. N.
(W.A.).
Edmund Blacket
Edmund Blacket (B.
22/5/’57) is possibly Australia’s
greatest architect to date;
certainly he is one of the
greatest two, the other being
F. H. Greenway. T. S. Mort,
however, was wrong in telling
Mrs. Blacket that her husband
would one day be recognised
“as the Sir Christopher Wren
;of the Antipodes.” That dis-
tinction is Greenway’s. He
designed in the classical Renais-
I sance tradition, of which Wren
I was England’s greatest
exponent. Blacket was a
Gothicist—“the Henry Yeveie
of the Antipodes” would be a
more appropriate title for him.
Henry Yeveie (c. 1320-1400)
was the greatest English
architect of the Middle Ages
and one of the greatest three
names in English architectural
,Hstory. The other two were the
classicists —Wren and his pre-
decessor, Inigo Jones. Yeveie
j was responsible for some of
the finest examples of English
medieval architecture in the
period when it reached its peak
—the reigns of Edward 111 and
Richard 11. He also probably
had an’ important hand in
Portugal’s medieval master-
piece, the Abbey of Batalha
(Battle Abbey). This was buftt
to commemorate the battle of
Albujarotta, when the Portu-
guese, with the help of a con-
tingent of English archers,
routed an invading Castilian
army.
Though his greatness was
recognised in the 19th century,
detailed research into his life
has been mainly the work of
20th-century scholars. His
biographer, John Harvey, holds
that the cardinal mistake of the
Gothic Revival school in the
19tb century was in basing
their work on the “Early
English” style, “when the native
genius had not fully adopted
the lessons learned from
France” ; instead of taking as
their model the more developed
form of Yevele’s day. Had
(bey sought inspiration from
the latter they might well have
achieved a living style, suited
to the conditions of their time,
For that matter, had Blacket
secured important English com-
missions instead of working in
a remote colony he might have
breathed life into the dry bones
of the Gothic Revival, for he
was a really creative architect,
His work shows imagination
and originality, sadly lacking
in most other exponents of that
school. Had Yevele’s work
provided inspiration for the
Gothic Revival, it would have
had a most stimulating effect
on Blacket’s mind. — Cunedda
(N.S.W.).
Technologists
There are several factors con-
tributing to the unsatisfactory
position of technological train-
ing in Australia.
Liaison between universities
and industry is poor. With the
exception of the 8.H.P., which
has an excellent scheme of
selection and post-graduate
training, general industry
regards the technical trainee as
a liability both during vaca-
tions and after graduation. On
the other ■ hand the graduate,
having swotted through high
school and the academic grind,
feels he has earned a place as
a master member of the race.
He expects to be paid as such,
not recognising that, in prac-
tical application and skill-at-
hand, his education is at zero.
Thirty years back a graduate
in engineering or science, with
the generous co-operation of
ship-owners, would sign-on as
a greaser or engine-room super-
numerary in an overseas ship.
Armed with letters of introduc-
tion from his faculty and local
agents he would work his way
through the U.K. giant in-
dustries on a shoestring budget.
He stayed until he felt he was
competent to give efficient
service on his return.
It is not unusual in Britain
to find the head of a technical
faculty also a consultant to a
large industrial group. He
thus has right of entry into the
works at any time and makes
sure his students accompany
him. This proves a great aid
to teaching, since what could be
elusive in the telling may be
simple in the seeing.
In any case, it is the policy
of all large concerns to advise
the schools and laboratories
when anything new or of out-
standing interest is passing
through their shops. They
assess the training-centres as
supply-pools for future staffing
and do everything possible to
assist in turning-out first-class
material.
We have progressed to a stage
in Australia where the best
practical training is available.
Universities and technical
colleges require much more
effective public-relations repre-
sentation to close the, at
present, wide gap between
industry and their centres of
learning.
The graduate has a wide field
for experience open to him
provided he does not demand
to be paid top rates at the
beginning for his purely text-
book knowledge.
So far as I can see these
days the average graduate
starts off with such a financial
burden for his sports-car,
camera, radiogram, television-
set and wife that he has no
alternative but to enter the
Commonwealth Public Ser-
vice. *
Here, of course, he is assured
of a comfortable salary paid
regardless of experience and
ability—Old Opencut (S.A.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 440
Across
I—Fire-spouter surrounds a mother guide. (8)
s—Javelin’s fruit in a steamer. (6)
9—Roy Rene’s street kangaroo by a Border robber. (11)
H—Essay achievement by a footballer. (3)
12—Behaving like dragon sacks and looking petulant. (4-8)
15— Evict a flier. (6)
16— Area role is back on top of one
poisoner’s abode. (8)
18 —The doctor and Miss Ackland are
smarter in cut and style. (8)
20 —Loach caught from a mount near
one of Sydney’s most popular
fishing grounds. (5)
22—A sunburnt one ran back four to
ring Madagascar’s capital. (12)
24 Tosh Crag is back in it. (3)
25 — Order when drilling a deserted
slope. (4, 7)
26 — The mongrel swallowed a cleric.
(6)
27 — The purge drives the youth from
rifles. (8)
Down
1 — Mum to sink a flabbergaster. (11)
2 Donkey with the capital Chaldean
ancestry drops 11 across these
undertakings. (10)
3 Calls to witness the Siberian
river examinations. (7)
4 A gesture of assent to the bone
day in the ancient Greek festival
of the Thesmophoria. (6)
6 A good round scissor vegetable,
according to Japanese paragraphs.
(7)
7 Tray smashed by the dilettantish
Fadden. (4)
8 — Bashful Aunt Sally. (3)
10—Strike the Queen’s pops. (6)
13- —Do I walk on the sibilant noble-
woman? (11)
14 —Applying a curative compress to
the sugar-coating on chicken. (10)
11 —His agent acts on his invitation to
diminish. (6)
19 — Chant allowed a garment. (7)
20 — An opportunity to get a half-
century in part of the church. (7)
21 — State mine associated with one
deer. (6)
23 — Derision upset a theatrical
celebrity. (4)
24 — Big flier takes up an oil company.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 439


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
-
! m
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
LAND DEVELOPMENT IN N.S.W.
[From a Contributor]
TN a continent as precariously
undeveloped as Australia,
any bold scheme to bring more
land under the plough and
encourage closer - settlement
should arouse immediate
interest. '
This doesn’t always happen.
Usually the return isn’t high
enough to attract investors, the
district is too remote to attract
settlers, or the development is
tricky heavy clearing-costs,
low soil-fertility, low rainfall,
and so on.
Admittedly, headlines are
made when an American
millionaire steps in, or a project
hits trouble. But these twists to
our history aren’t always
healthy.
It’s healthy enough, however,
when Australian graziers and
businessmen work out a way
by which capital can be diverted
from the city and channelled
into primary production. It's
healthy, too, when the country
they plan to improve is in safe-
rainfall districts proved to be
The removal of
worms from sheep is
comparatively easy
but how can reinfes-
tation be avoided?
Keeping sheep that
have been freed of
worms from reinfesta-
tion is greatly aided
by putting them on a
paddock which has
been spelled for three
or four weeks. This
allows time for larva
worms expelled by
earlier flocks to die.
An excellent way to
avoid shock and
disease arising from
marking and tailing
is to use Elastrator
Rubber Rings on the
lambs rather than
the knife. Being
bloodless the Elastra-
tor System of mark-
ing and tailing offers
little, if any, attrac-
tion to germ-carrying
flies.
potentially fertile, and un-
encumbered by heavy timber.
This is the background to a
scheme recently launched in
New South Wales by a new
company, Farm Management,
Ltd. Graziers and investors
alike pricked up their ears
because the company an-
nounced unique plans using
proved methods methods
tested by C.5.1.R.0. and the
Department of Agriculture.
The land which the company
plans to develop is in the table-
lands of New South Wales,
where, according to C.S.I R. 0.,
there are nearly 70-million
acres capable of pasture-
improvement. The initial target
is 10,000 acres, and more land
will be tackled each year.
This is an exciting prospect,
for the land has easy access to
Sydney and there are plenty
of local amenities, already
thriving, to attract settlers.
Why, then, is the land not
improved?
Pasture-improvement, to be
effective, calls for heavy capital-
outlay for seed and fertiliser,
machinery and fuel. It must be
supplemented by subdivision,
soil-conservation, and watering-
points. It demands skilled
pasture-management, fodder-
conservation, and considerable
know-how in stock-manage-
ment.
Not every grazier has the
capital, knowledge or need to
embark on such a programme.
Result: millions of acres lie
virtually 'idle.
The long-term economic
benefits of pasture-improvement
are undisputed. Economists of
the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture have said that on wheat-
sheep farms in the southern
tablelands it provides an
economic way of raising
fertility and increasing the
wool, meat or milk production
per animal.
Land which would previously
only carry dry sheep becomes
breeding and fattening country.
Crop-yields on * pasture-
improved lands show big in-
creases.
If local landholders are not
particularly interested in get-
ting this country into top gear,
what about outside interests?
In South Australia, big busi-
ness has gone into an ambitious
land - development scheme.
United States interests aro
pioneering large-scale ventures
in Western Australia and the
Northern Territory.
Governments show increas-
ing awareness of the situation
and are still wrestling with
the problem, on a national
scale.
What about the “Pitt-street
farmers”? Since the war, many
“Pitt-street farmers” have
bought land in the tablelands,
and achieved just the increased
productivity mentioned.
But it has not been easy.
They’ve found that life on the
land is more involved, more
demanding of their time, than
most of them imagined. Many
city people—professional men,
businessmen —have an interest
in the land, but they fight shy
of the problems of manage-
ment.
And so, 18 months ago, a
group of graziers and business-
men got together. They said:
“On one hand, millions of
acres of good land await
development. On the other
hand, city people want land,
but hesitate for lack of know-
ledge.”
What was wanted, they
decided, was a farm-manage-
ment service to improve and
run properties so that modern
large-scale methods of develop-
ment could be employed.
Scientific management under
experienced graziers and
agronomists would then be
possible.
From there the idea gained
strength. The farm-manage-
ment company, it was felt,
would be the logical medium to
put graziers with properties for
sale in touch with city people
anxious to- buy.
And it quickly became
apparent that if a group of city
people, rather than an
individual, were to buy a
property, more capital would
be available for improvement
over the six or so years that an
improvement-programme takes.
Months of patient research
followed.
It was important that the
gioups formed should be able
to take advantage of the liberal
income-tax concessions avail-
able to graziers. It was vital
that a referee be appointed to
reach a decision in the event of
any disagreement. A contract
would have to be worked out
between the ruraLdevelopment
groups and the farm-manage-
ment company.
All this was achieved over
the months that followed. The
first suitable properties were
found in good-rainfall districts,
totalling 10,000 acres. Five
rural-development groups could
be formed to acquire them,
making an average property*
size of 2000 acres.
A programme was made out
for improvement over six years.
This became the average length
ot the contract. At the end of
this period, the members of any
one group would be able to
exercise a choice:
• To take over its manage-
ment as a group;
• To allow Farm Manage-
ment to continue running
it;
• Or to divide the property
between themselves.
The scheme has several
important advantages. For one
thing, the methods planned
were already proved. It was no
shot in the dark.
The company’s consulting
agronomist, M. V. O’Reilly,
B.Sc.Agr., reported: “The
technique is one of soil-fertility
improvement. Deficiencies of
phosphate and sulphur can be
overcome by applying super-
phosphate. Nitrogen-deficiency
is made good by establishing
clovers, because nitrogen is
increased through the associa-
tion of nitrogen-fixing bacteria
in the clover-roots.
“More feed and better feerfl
for stock means increased
carrying-capacity. This gives
a higher return of animal
manure to the soil.
“This final link in the


ARTHRITIS
and all
Rheumatic Complaints
treated
with excellent results
persons in all walks of life
throughout Australia have
found freedom from suffering
and hundreds of grateful
■otters have been received b.v
our Consultant, simple, safe
and effective. STRATTONS
fOWDER, compounded from
a h Indian Formula, contains
ho harmful drugs, will not
affect the heart, and is
NATURE’S ALLEVIATOR
jot all complaints of the
rheumatic group.
lour weeks’ Treatment costs
only £1 POST IR|E.
STRATTONS
Rheumatic Powder Fty. Ltd.,
8 Barrack St., PERTH. W.A.
THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST &
MOST FRIENDLY EiOTEL
On the corner of Bent Street and
Young Street . . . just at the end
of Bligh Street you will find
Sydney’s outstanding Hotel . . .
The Hotel Metropole. The Hotel
Metropole is really a Hotel of
considerable merit:
* More than 400 Bedrooms.
* Over. 50 Rooms with Private
Bathrooms.
* Five really first-class function
rooms.
* Sydney’s busiest hotel lounge.
* And Sydney’s finest Dining-room.
The Hotel Metropole
"THE COUNTRYMAN'S
HOME IN SYDNEY"
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P O.
fertility-cycle allows more pro-
ductive introduced grasses to be
►established.”
He explained that properties
[which previously carried barely
a sheep to the acre before
pasture-improvement were now
carrying two-and-a-half sheep
! to the acre or more,
i Wool yield had jumped from
81b. an acre, or less, to 251 b.
ian acre, or more.
! The average cost of pasture-
improvement for the first three
years would be £8 an acre, he
'said.
For this outlay, the average
returns —in terms of wool —•
would be increased from 48s.
an acre to 150 s. an acre. For
iia continued yearly outlay for
[superphosphate of 20s. an acre,
this return of 150 s. an acre
f could be kept up, or even
increased, indefinitely,
ej With 10,000 acres under
development at once, large-
pie methods could be used.
Teams of bulldozers, ploughs
pd drills could be switched
from one property to another,
if Serial super.-spreading could
,pe used where necessary.
( . Supplies of seed, fertiliser,
; encing materials, etc., could be
[ordered in bulk.
Teams could be organised for
a arm - operations dipping,
•Jrenching, fodder-conservation,
harvesting.
2The scheme is flexible. The
Jrst 10,000 acres are only the
Initial part of it. More rural-
T-evelopment groups will be
" mated as it gets under way, to
mep equipment in action.
* Secondly, the advantages
Accrue to individuals rather
han powerful companies. The
satisfaction of owning grazing
jand is brought nearer to large
umbers of genuinely interested
leople. They, the members of
ne rural-development groups,
njby all the benefits of tax-
hncessions that are their right
f? primary producers.
In this way they can take
part in the development of a
pastoral property out of income
for their retirement or for
members of their family. The
effect of death-duties is
minimised.
They are able to create an
asset out of their surplus
income, and the investment is a
certain offset against inflation.
Thirdly, the tablelands them-
selves will benefit from the
effects of closer-settlement. The
more intensive production will
demand more labor to run the
properties, more services to
supply them.
The company’s pastoral con-
sultants, New Zealand Loan
" Come out, Nugget! We know you re in there!”
and Mercantile Agency Co,
Ltd., point out that the table-
lands, with their normally good
rainfall, provide a natural
source of supply of vegetables,
pea-crops, potatoes, corn, fruit,
lucerne, and cattle-fodder of all
types, in addition to improved-
pastures.
Apart from increased wool-
production, improved-pastures
there can turn off a good type
of fat-lamb suitable for export
or local trade, while young beef
fattens quickly.
Fourthly, from the national
viewpoint, the extra output of
wool, meat and crops will
materially boost the national
income and assist the export-
drive.
A. C.
Bulk Supering
“F.”: In Australia, following
the New Zealand lead, the
aeroplane is being used for an
increasing number of agri-
cultural purposes. Recently,
on E. Long’s property, Cross-
ways, in the Moss Vale
(N.S.W.) district, Air Spray
Corporation Pty., Ltd., made
the first bulk-drop of super, in
Australia, ' using 10 D:H.B2
Tiger Moths, each aircraft
dropping 25 tons per day in a
two-mile radius. It is claimed
that the new technique cuts
costs, and that a good deal
more will be heard of it in the
luture.
A National Project
“Aerogenes”: Sir Stanton
Hicks, referred to in the article
“Fill It or Lose It” (B.
23 /1 / ’57), appears to have
been misinformed about the
percentage of labor employed
on farms in the U.S.A. His
figures show 25 per cent, of
the total labor-force in the
U.S.A. engaged in farming, as
against 17 per cent, in Aus-
tralia.
In “Uncabled Additions”
(B. l/2/’56) the London “Daily
Telegraph” is quoted as say-
ing: “Since about 1940
American farm-production has
risen by nearly a half. At the
same time the proportion of the
labor-force employed on the
farms has dropped from 20 to
13 per cent.”
The latter figures would be
more in accord with America’s
mechanisation of farms and
factories, and the great increase
in the labor engaged in services
and luxury manufactures.
Farmers in the U.S.A. are not
altogether to be envied or
emulated. They are acutely
embarrassed over high costs,
low returns, lack of labor, over-
production for local markets,
and political uncertainties and
perplexities.
But there are some trends
in the U.S.A. which we could
follow with advantage. For
instance, decentralisation of
industry into rural com-
munities, in which families may
live together on their farms
and also have some of their
members working in industry,
perhaps only part of their time.
Probably the best feature of
European farming is its use of
co-operation. There is room,
here for much more co-opera-
tion in buying, selling, stock-
breeding, processing, and
ownership of machinery, as
well as for some of the more
closely-knit units, where owners
or renters do the handwork and
management, but almost every-
thing else is done on a com-
munal basis.
There are thousands of ways
in which our food-production
can be increased and improved.
Many of them can be arranged
by individual farmers, if the
incentive is strong enough, but
there are many other operations
which are national in size and
scope and rewards.
The first and most vital of
these is the conservation and


TUI Ul-BtlTtM
fajouyMJflft
the Pen
Marvellous
Nib!
Prices from
r 29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
e 0 I « I f I T ( V I I T t • • . IT*. I
Now you can FORGET youii;
RUPTURE
'flunks to
N EO- 1
BARKERE 0
Ho Pads — (I
Ho Spring* r .
The nko - vtmf
acts like a l>a“J
when placed flat up j,
the orifice. Y 09,. ,■
at once, witlwi-
eftort and in jjf
movements, cont"
yont hernia with comfort *fj
security. It cannot be displacca
violent movement and i’ 3 * ,f r< Li«
completely successful by *U 1
have tried it. v tl
n rite today for FREE
BA It R ERE DISTRIBUTION
(Dept. 3q), 243 Elizabeth St., Symj
Lr.vti/
distribution of water. It is
such a long job, and such a
big job, that it must be under-
taken as soon as possible and
pressed on with the utmost
speed if we want to have
enough food for our doubled
population in 20 years.
Jack Beale, M.L.A., chair-
man of the Water Research
Foundation of Australiaj
referred last year to water as
the “key to the future of our
dry continent.” He said the
average rainfall on the main-
land of Australia was 16.5 in.,
compared with 26in. for all
land-areas of the earth, and
29in. in the U.S.A.
But that’s only a small part
of the picture. Most of our
rain falls on a narrow strip
around the coast, and it is
very irregular even there.
Again, there is little storage of
water in the form of snow and
ice, and our high temperatures
evaporate much of the rain
soon after it falls.
Scientists have a way of
measuring the effectiveness of
rainfall by comparing it with
the rate of evaporation. The
evaporation-rate can only be
found by exposing a free
surface of water and measuring
the loss.
In our climate the water
evaporated from a free surface
is usually much greater than
the amount which falls as rain.
When the water is in the soil it
is not evaporating nearly as
quickly as it would from a
free surface, and we get the
use of part of it. Cultivation,
good pastures, and forests,
reduce evaporation, as well as
increasing storage and retarding
run-off.
It is found that, in order to
grow useful crops under rain-
fall alone, there should be at
least five consecutive months
in which the rainfall is greater
than one-third of the evapora-
tion from a free-water surface-
Applying this test, we find
that much of our heavy rain-
fall is of little use because of
high evaporation and long dry
spells. Much of our tropical
north is not safely cultivable,
though the annual rainfall is
high.
S { ora g e of this water
which we now lose, its distnbu-
.• d } rr jo a tian
“he on ly way we ha°ve of
ending "he growing-season
and increasing the product,™
m those large areas which we
OT lose ” •
From the mountain forests
to the inland farms, from the
earth-dams in the top paddocks
to huge storage-and-diversion
schemes in the Dividing
Ranges, every step must be
taken to hold and use what
water we have.
Whatever it costs, it will still
be less than the cost to us of
importing our food and of
suffering the political conse-
quences of world food-
shortages and our own commer-
cial impotence.
The problem is very urgent,
and not at all academic, to
those of us who have children
and those who expect to be
alive for the next 20 years.
Shelter for Sheep
“Minhamite”: Most slieep
held their own during the dry
autumn in many parts of Aus-
tralia, but the need for shelter
increases as the weather gets
colder—especially if the season
breaks suddenly.
This happened at the break
of the 1945 drought, when
hundreds of thousands of sheep
died as soon as the relieving
rains fell. Until then, they had
managed to exist quite well in
the comparatively calm, warm
weather.
A good plantation with
cover to the ground is probably
the best shelter on a farm, but
in the absence of trees
temporary cover can be pro-
vided by sheds, rows of baled
hay or straw on the windward
side of paddocks, long hay-
stacks, and oaten-hay thatched
through fences.
In addition, a full stomach is
a good protection against the
cold weather. A maintenance-
ration can keep a sheep alive
while the weather is calm and
warm, but more is needed as
soon as it rains.
It is most unwise to reduce
the amount of supplementary-
feed at the break of the
drought. For the good of both
sheep and pasture, it will be
necessary to handfeed until
well into the spring this year.
Another dry-season hazard
is the dam or tank Which gels
so low that sheep get bogged
in it. While the best thing is
to fence the hole and pump
the water into troughs, bogging
can be prevented by making a
corduroy landing out of
saplings, well down to the
water's edge and an extra yard
or so into the water.
Nitrogen
“F.”: Australian farmer*
give nitrogen a very minoi
place as a fertiliser for crop:
and pastures, although it is th(
key element in crop-nutritioi
and Australian soils as a who!
are as deficient in nitrogen a
any comparable soils in th
world.
This statement was made b 1
Dr. J. S. Russell, Seniq
Research Officer in the Sout!
Australian Department Q
Agriculture, in an article i
the “Journal of the Australi?
Institute of Agricultural
Science.” He says that the us
of nitrogen-fertilisers during th
past 20 years in Australia hi!
increased much less than h
other parts of the world, whei
in some cases increases has 1
been spectacular.
One reason for this is tl
dependence of Australis
farmers and graziers on sul
terranean-clover to build-up tl
nitrogen-content of the soil. “1
Australia, over large areas
high-rainfall, low-fertility soil)
legdmes present the on r
possible way of raising tl
fertility status, and it is douh
ful if nitrogen-fertiliser w c
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(13/ 6/’57 )
Sunspot activity still remains at a low level, and this
is normally associated with poor rainfall.
General rains are indicated in a large part of Queens-
land during July, but, apart from fair rains in September,
rainfall should be patchy during the spring.
In N.S.W., too, general rains are indicated during July,
with the heaviest falls on the coastal areas. Except in
September, rainfall should be patchy during the spring.
Rainfall should be generally below normal in Victoria
during July, although there may be good falls in the east-
central and north-east areas and in the western division.
Heavier rains are likely during August' and September.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should get
moderate rains, mainly below average, during July, although
there may be light rain only on the Murray Valley, interior
and west-coast areas. The Main cycle indicates excellent
rains throughout the whole of the State during July, so that
some improvement in the position is possible.
Good rains should occur in the south-west agricultural
areas of Western Australia during July, with the heaviest
falls between Perth and Bunbury. Good rains may occur
in part of the De Grey, with light rain on the goldfields
and Gascoyne areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


But/ a YllltKr
QuatiJhf
STORM LANTERN
and get value for
money! Gives 12 hours
brilliant light on only
pints of kerosene. Abso-
lutely wind and weather-
proof. A Reflector is
available as an extra if
required.
And 100% British Made too !
300 Candlepower
Model X 246
‘SfCifa diUektm.
/
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores throughout Australia.
In ease of difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 Mount Alexander Victoria.
ever have a place in these areas.
The realisation of this should
not obscure the fact that in
some areas, particularly those
of medium soil-fertility and
high rainfall, and in irrigation
areas, nitrogen-fertiliser may
be more suitable for satisfying
the nitrogen requirements of
crops than legumes.”
Dr. Russell says nitrogen-
fertiliser costs much more in
Australia than overseas, and
this, combined with the fact
that prices received for Aus-
tralian products are often
lower than overseas, has
tended to restrict its use. In
the United States the use of
nitrogen has increased about
fivefold since 1938, compared
with a little more than 50 per
cent, in Australia. However,
even at the present price, there
appeared to be scope for using
more.
On many intensive crops,
where some nitrogen was
already applied, heavier dress-
ings would be profitable. And
the increase in population will
require greater areas to be
devoted to such crops as
vegetables, which use large
amounts of this fertiliser.
Dr. Russell also suggests that
by using nitrogen-fertiliser it
may be possible to reduce the
traditional dependence on
fallowing of land for wheat-
production. A decline in the
amount of fallow is desirable,
he says, because much of the
serious soil - erosion in Aus-
tralia is the result of fallow-
ing. In addition, it leaves the
land unproductive for many
months and exploits the reserve-
nutrients in the soil.
Introduced Pastures
“Streaky”: It isn’t generally
i Realised that a large and grow-
|ing part of Australia's sheep-
raising industry depends on
\ pasture-species from other
.countries. A big percentage of
our native grasses—among the
'best producers of fine wool in
the world—have been replaced
by species from Europe, and
elsewhere.
A good many of these
grasses *and clovers were
regarded as weeds in their
■j native countries, and some of
| them came here by chance.
I Sub.-clover is a notable
example. Success of sub.-clover
in Australia has paved the way
for its introduction to Cali-
fornia, where it has spread
i quickly.
But the most important
[ aspect of the growth in Aus-
tralia of improved-pasture has
been the naturalisation of im-
ported species, and the develop-
ment of local strains such as
Mt. Barker sub.-clover and
Clunes ryegrass.
Melilotus
“Yeelanna”: Melilotus, an
annual legume which provides
fair feed and puts valuable
nitrogen into the soil, would
have been just about perfect for
building soil-fertility in the
wheat country if it didn’t have
a penetrating taint which
spoils flour.
Thus, instead of being a
benefit, melilotus is a pest.
There are two approaches to
the control of melilotus —
cultivation, and spraying with
hormone-weedicides.
The immediate aim should
be to prevent the weed .seeding
for two seasons before the
crop is sown. This can be done
by mowing, grazing heavily,
and perhaps cutting and baling.
In the second year, fallow-
ing, heavy grazing, and well-
timed cultivations will do the
job. When the land is under
pasture, vigorous clovers such
as barrel and sub. can reduce
the amount of melilotus.
Hormone sprays are most effec-
tive when melilotus is in the
seedlipg stage. Spraying with
one pint of amine 2, 4-D per
acre, in conjunction with
cultivation, gives promise of
eventual complete control.
Clearing Law
“Treasury”: Other States
would do well to copy South
Australia’s law which requires
would-be pioneers to get per-
mission before clearing any
forest or scrubland. While
clearing has its merits in good-
rainfall country like Victoria’s
Heytesbury Forest, it’s a very
doubtful proposition in such
places as the Big Desert, into
which some people would like
to push with their bulldozers.
It might be all right to nibble
at the edge of the desert
country, but uncovering the
sand further in would not only
increase Victoria’s erosion
hazard but also —-being further
than the settled country from
the railhead could add to
capital and marketing costs.
Add the charges for clearing,
fencing, and other improve-
ments such as a homestead, and
you have at least the value of
settled land, with all its
amenities: roads, schools, tele-
phones, and shorter distance
to railhead. And, with all the
advantages, much of the settled
country has a greater potential
than is generally realised. Then,
too, a lot of the desert country
is mineral-deficient.
Fortunately, the Lands
Department has the say as to
whether Crown land is to be
thrown open for selection.
Until now, the official policy
has been wisely conservative.
In view of the doubt as to
whether selection of the Big
Desert would increase produc-
tion much, anyway, it might be
wiser for the Government to
give settlers barrel-clover and
superphosphate to increase pro-
ductiqp of settled land, rather
than to sink money in a venture
on what lies under the scrub.
Last Rabbit
“Severn”: G. Douglas—Vic-
toria’s recently-appointed co-
ordinator of rabbit-control —is
so confident about the success
of the anti-bunny campaign
that he has jokingly promised
the last rabbit to the Victorian
Dairyfarmers’ Association for
some future annual dinner.
Myxo. won’t do the whole
job, but it is apparent that the
virug has its best chance of
success the virulent
Standard Laboratory Strain is
distributed just before the time
when the right kind of mos-
quitoes get to work. Miss this
time, and you give the less-
powerful strains a chance to
attack the bunnies, which can
then develop a fair immunity.
The imported rabbit-flea
might yet help the mossies to
do the job, but it won’t get
a chance until Douglas and Co.
are sure it won’t harm the
local fauna.
The best thing to do with
recovered rabbits is to kill
them. Don’t let them breed and
produce a race of bunnies
which is, at least partly,
immune to myxo. Once we
get to the stage when myxo.
is only 50 per cent, efficient,
the virus has just about had it.
Even now, ripping and the
use of 1080-poison are neces-
sary to make certain of keeping
rabbits under control.


Women’s Letter
SYDNEY
Topics of the week included the pro-
posed dismissal of fruit-barrows from city
streets and how a certain amount of color
will go with them ; the substitution of
buses for trams on the Clovelly run and
the decision to take trams from Castle-
reagh-street and Pitt-street by September ;
the pictures of Princess Margaret winning
from Lord Patrick Beresford and the
Queen in a race down the track at Ascot;
the robberies round town, including the
theft of £30,000-worth of razor-blades
(probably by Yul Brynner fans); natter-
ing male radio-announcers who go on and
on at the housewives and who are even-
ing-up the nagging score ; the prevalence
at all big dances of rock-'n’-roil experts
(they take up the four corners of the
halls and certainly display verve and
skill) ; how some people frown on the
fashion but others say: “Remember how
our parents hated the Charleston” ; and
the Greek migrant-girl who sighted her
proposed husband from the ship-rail, did
not like him, picked out one she did like
and is now engaged to Number Two.
#
The Dragon Festival Ball drew to the
Trocadero nearly 1500 dancers, who saw
a bevy of exquisitely dainty little debs,
presented to Chinese Consul-General S. H.
Sih and Mrs. Sih by ball-president Mrs.
Rene Oong. Chinese-lanterns in the
shape of dogs, fish and weird unknown
beasties decorated the walls, and favors
indicating happiness, long life and
prosperity in Chinese symbols were sold,
Guests-of-honor were Lord Mayor Jensen
and Mrs. Jensen, and entertainment
included songs from Florence Pong (who
was one of the few to wear Chinese
dress) and Eunice Melville (who also
danced).
# #
The Victoria League had its 40th
annual meeting at the Empress Rooms in
Mark Foy’s and heard a report of growth
and achievement during the year. Mrs.
H. B. Farncomb, who is acting-deputy-
president during the absence abroad of
deputy-president Mrs. H. H. McNall, took
the chair. Admiral W. H. Harrington and
Mrs. Harrington were guests-of-honor.
# # #
One of the parties of the week was
held at Legacy House to launch the new
cookery-book Oh for a Man Who Can
Cook, proceeds from the sale of which
will go to Legacy. The authors Of the book
were present, gourmets Frank Keane,
Sigurd Klingenberg, Carlos Zalapa,
Johnnie Walker and Ted Moloney, so of
course no one present said what is quite
a fact: that a man who can cook is often
a great nuisance. The reason is generally
that men still do nothing but cook. They
don't answer the door-bell, or the tele-
phone, keep an eye on the baby, wash-up,
adjudicate in childish disputes, tolerate
anyone else in the kitchen, cater to
ihdividual tastes or try to make some-
thing tasty out of chuck-steak (they mostly
use filet steak with wine, butter and
mushrooms). So it becomes rather galling
when, as they serve-up their delicious con-
fections, they., assert that men are better
cooks than women.
Mrs. M. A. Alldritt is president of the
large committee which is organising the
Pied Piper Ball to be held at Prince’s
on Friday, June 28. Always a delightful
affair, the ball, which benefits the Spastic
Centre, promises to be an outstanding
social event this year.
Logic from an eight-year-old: “One of
the boys at school said that there is no
such thing as fairies, but I said to him,
‘Well, if there’s no- such thing as fairies,
why are there toadstools?’ and he didn’t
have a thing to say.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Sir Thomas White, former High Com-
missioner in London and president of the
Victorian branch of the Royal Empire
Society, gave an interesting talk at the
R.E.S. in Sydney during the week.
Spicing, with humorous anecdotes, his
observations on U.K. - Australian
relations, he stressed the importance of
British migration to Australia. He also
quoted a limerick which was told to him
by the Archbishop of Canterbury, and,
as Archbishops so seldom relay limericks,
perhaps it is worth quoting. This is
how it went:
There was an old colonel of Kenya
Who suffered from mild schizophrenia;
It wasn't the word
That scared the old bird,
Bui which of his egos was senior.
For some strange reason art-shows in
Sydney nearly always burst into bloom
simultaneously. There were four open-
ings on Wednesday, and conscientious
viewers were kept very busy. At the
Grosvenor Galleries Harry Hibble’s
exhibition was opened by Mr. G. K.
Townshend, who was first introduced
(even though everyone knows him so
well) by Art Gallery director Hal
Missingham. Mr. Hibble’s family,
including his glamorous daughter
Margaret, were present at the opening,
which was held at high noon and
particularly well attended.
In the afternoon Robert Johnson fans
and Frank Legg fans assembled at
Anthony Horderns’ Galleries to hear Mr.
Legg open the loan-exhibition of paint-
ings by Mr. Johnson. These 66 paintings,
which are not for sale, are all of Central
Australia, and represent the first show
that the artist has had for 20 years. Mr.
Legg said that the reason for this was
that “an inconsiderate public” kept
buying-up the Robert Johnson paintings
and the artist could not accumulate
enough for a show! Saw there Mr. and
Mrs. Erik Langker, Mrs. R. J. Heffron
and Mrs. Vernon Treatt.
* *:t *
Speaking of Central Australia, it is
becoming quite the thing to dash out
there for one’s holiday. The latest tour
to be arranged is for Women Only and
will cost about £lOO for eight days.
T.A.A.’s travel-adviser, Ann Travaire,
has drawn-up a list of suitable clothes,
after reading which one can understand
why the tour is for women only. For,
to view the dawn at Ayers Rock you
would be wearing clothes of the oldest
possible kind, khaki or tan, sandshoes
on your feet, a topee with a flynet on
your head and perhaps a scarf to keep
out the dust. Certainly not becoming,
but, better still in the circum lances,
useful and comfortable.
♦2* ♦;«
People chatted during the week about
the way the weather is changing, some-
thing we have all been saying for years
but now it is official —confirmed by a
scientist in the C.5.1.R.0., who adds, how-
ever, that it is nothing to do with the
atom-bomb. Changes include lower
temperatures out west and drier summers
up north. (Make note to go to Surfers’
Paradise for next holiday.)
☆ ☆ *
What is Australia’s national costume? '
We certainly should have one, and we
definitely will have one after August 1,
when it will be worn at the International
Ball. Mrs. Florence Broadhurst, the
organiser of the ball, has set in motion a
contest for the design, the prize a holiday
to Lord Howe Island. Everyone is eligible
to enter, amateur and professional, and
the closing date is July 27. All the entries,
which will be colored sketches of
costumes for a man and a woman, will
decorate the foyer of the Trocadero on
the night of the ball, at which the winner
will be announced. Entries are free and
should be sent to Mrs. Florence Broad- ]
hurst, National Costume Contest, United ,
Nations, Bligh-street, Sydney.


MELBOURNE
To meet the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim (as Prior of the Order of
St. John) and Lady Slim, Lieut.-Governor
Sir Edmund Herring and Lady Herring
entertained a number of guests at a late-
afternoon party, the State reception-
room being beautifully decorated with
flowers from Government House gardens.
Lady Herring was 'assisted in entertain-
ing by her daughter Margaret. Lady
Slim was accompanied by her private-
secretary, Miss Henrietta Scott. Among
the guests were members of the Order
of St. John, a number of them inter-
state, here for a conference. Also present
were Sir Kingsley and Lady Norris, Air-
Vice-Marshal E. A. Daley and Mrs.
Daley, Dr. and Mrs. Douglas Donald,
Dr. and Mrs. W. Littlejohn, Mrs. Karl
Kumm, Mr. and Mrs. John Buckland
and Dame Mary Daly.
☆ it ☆
When Lady Slim visited the Spastic
Children’s Society’s centre at Marathon
she was presented with a sheaf of flowers
by 13-year-old Helen Thomas. Her
Excellency wore a tailored suit of deep-
brown wool, a mink stole and an attrac-
tice cloche in teal-blue. Welcoming
Lady Slim were the president of the
Spastic Children’s Society, Mr. L. A.
Rattray-Wood, and the patroness, Lady
Herring. From there Lady Slim
went to Huntingtower, the society’s other
centre, where there are 14 children in
residence, and where she was welcomed
by Matron D. M. Stott.
☆ ☆ ☆
Although the first night of the change
of programme for the ballet at Her
Majesty’s fell short of the glamor of the
gala-premiere, enough beautiful gowns
were worn to make it a notable evening.
In the audience were the Lieut.-Governor,
Sir Edmund Herring, and Lady Herring,
the latter wearing a full-length gown of
burgundy Chantilly-lace. Lady Tait’s
choice was a threequarter-length theatre-
coat of black satin and gown of
hydrangea-blue tulle which had a guipure-
lace bodice embroidered in silver. • A
bouffant cinnamon tulle gown, the waist
softly swathed with soft green satin, was
worn by the Lady Mayoress (Lady
Selleck), whose daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey
Tolson, favored creamy tulle which
featured a vyide band of lace in the full
skirt.
Mrs. John Buckland’s saxe-blue satin
coat went with a matching short frock.
Mrs. Ronald Marriott's theatre-coat of
apricot satin had the collar edged with
mink. Mrs. Aubrey Gibson also chose
satin for her coat, which was in almond-
pink tonings. Mrs. John Grantly
Shelton’s coat was in emerald-green silk-
shantung. Lady Richardson, ,who was
with Sir Frank, wore a short black velvet
frock which had a fitted bodice and short
flared skirt„
* ☆ -fr
Two-hundred attended the dinner-
dance at No. 9 Darling-street arranged
by the junior auxiliary to the Royal
Women’s Hospital. Novelties in the
setting included a clown in the foyer, and
round the ballroom posters of perform-
ing animals, clowns’-faces and balloons;
on the tables were cardboard-elephants
holding candles. Guests were received
by auxiliary-president Mrs. Geoffrey
Beckingsale and Mr. Beckingsale,
assisted by Mrs. Alastair McDonald and
Mrs. Eric Rhind and their husbands.
Special guests were Mr. and Mrs. Wilfred
Black and Mrs. E. Cornfoot. Among
those who took parties along were Mr.
and Mrs. Peter de Wolf, whose guests
were Captain and Mrs.-Peter Latham and
Mr. and Mrs. Alan Cash; with Mr.
and Mrs. Douglas Bowden were the
Bruce Matears, Mr. and Mrs. Val Morgan
and the Robert Lanes; others who
organised parties were Mrs. Dick Doyle,
Mrs. lan McMullin, Mrs. John Holdens-
son and Mrs. Stanley Bickerdike.
* ☆
Red and blue flowers, balloons and
fairy-lights decorated the ballroom of
Talindert, the Camperdown home of Sir
Chester and Lady Manifold, when they
gave a coming-of-age dance for their
youngest daughter, Sally, who wore a
formal gown of turquoise-blue satin
which had two white roses on the bodice.
The host and hostess’s elder daughters,
Mrs. Kenneth Whitehead and Mrs. Peter
Schlicht, and their husbands were among
the 120 guests.
Candlelight shed a soft glow through
St. John’s Church, Toorak, when Jennifer,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. J.
Browning, of Ellerslie, Yarrawonga, was
married to Kenneth, only son of Mr. and
Mrs. K. J. Watkins, of Yangooran, Shep-
parton. The bride’s white, delustred-satin
gown had a high neckline and long loose
sleeves. Her long tulle veil was held by
a white satin band, and she carried a
sheaf of gardenias. The four bridesmaids
were Kerry McAuley, Noel Dugdale,
Susan Stachan and Josephine Smeaton.
Their white pin-silk taffeta frocks had
square necklines, and the skirts were
folded at the back to form a floating
panel. They had white bows in their
hair and carried pink camellias. Best
man was John Davis, and groomsmen
were Victor Sleigh, Peter Tremayne and
Graeme Mills. Reception took the form
of a dinner-dance at No. 9 Darling-street.
* ☆ ☆
Rosalind, daughter of Cr. and Mrs.
Cyril McCarthy, of Kew, celebrated her
21st birthday at a dance given for her
by her parents at No. 9 Darling-street.
The guest-of-honor’s ballerina-frock of
black silk-organza was made on Empire
lines and featured a bodice of guipure-
face ; with it she wore her parent’s
birthday-gift—a set of necklace, ear-
rings and ring of jade and diamonds.
Mrs. McCarthy allied a graceful skirt of
black satin and a bodice of caramel-
toned Chantilly-lace. Among the guests
were Rosalind’s fiance Peter Brown
Greaves, former school-friends from
Genazzano, and fellow-students who
with Rosalind are doing speech-therapy.
* «■ it
The lone woman among adjudicators
at this year’s South-street (Ballarat)
Eisteddfod is Mrs. Maie' Hoban, who
has been appointed to the Speech and
Drama sections. Maie, who is director
of both the Pilgrim Theatre and the
Australian School of Speechcraft and
Drama, originally trained in Ballarat
before going on to the East Melbourne
Conservatorium. The successes she has
had with her students are legion ; they
include Gwenda Wilson (now with the
8.8. C.); Eula Parker (one of London’s
top TV artists); Toni Lamond (who has
the lead in “The Pyjama Game” at Her
Majesty’s); and Murray Mathieson (a
star of West End theatres).
CANBERRA
Canberra was fortunate to have an
opportunity of seeing the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s presentation of “Hamlet,”
and showed its appreciation by full-
houses at the three performances in the
Albert Hall. The transformation of the
stage into a truly Shakspearian setting,
designed by former Canberra Repertory
member Victor Forstmann, was superb.
Paul Rogers, after his vivid portrayal of
the Prince, at curtain-call thanked the
audience for their spartan effort despite
the “bitter cold.”
Lord and Lady Carrington, who
attended the opening night, entertained
players and guests to an after-theatre
champagne-supper-party at Canberra
House. Lady Carrington offset her
elegant black faille frock with exquisite
ruby-and-diamond earrings. Sir John
Latham, president of the trust, and Lady
Latham were among the guests, she wear-
ing a graceful gown in grey chiffon, the
wide neckline embroidered with silver
beads; also noted Zoe Caldwell with
Clement McCallin; the German Am-
bassador and Madame Hess; Dr. and
Mrs. A. Y. Helmi; Mr. and Mrs, H. L.
White (her full-length gown in green-and-
gold lame); the D. P. Oliviers, of the
South African High Commission; Mr.
P. Gunasekara, High Commissioner for
Ceylon ; Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Ellis, of
the U.K. High Commission ; and Dato
Nik Kamil, Commissioner for Malaya.


Divorce Notice
TO DONALD - " JOSEPH CAMERON
formerly of Perth W.A. —TAKE NOTICE
that ERIC ALBERT BURNETT has
commenced an action in the Supreme
Court of Western Australia (Matrimonial
Causes No. 87 of 1957) for Dissolution
of his Marriage with DOROTHY MAVIS
BURNETT on the ground of her
adultery with you If you desire to
defend the said action you must within
forty' clear days after the date of the
publication of this Notice file in the
Central Office of the Supreme Court
Perth a statement of your defence to the
Plaintiff’s claim. In default of you so
doing the case may proceed and the
Court will - pronounce Judgment and
make orders against you in your
absence. DATED the 7th day of June.
1957.—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
where the secret-police still
held out.
Two men sat in the front-
seat, stiff with fear.
The Green Avo forced the
car’s door open.
“Your identity-papers,” he
demanded.
Lovas was exuberant.
Another sign of success. In
the past the Avo bullies went
around demanding identifica-
tion-cards. Now the tables
were turned. The paper, which
meant power and protection to
its holder, was transformed into
a dead give-away.
“I lost my papers,” the
driver said.
“Come on out, both of you!”
the frontier-guard boomed.
“You’re an Avo yourself;
see reason,” the driver’s com-
panion said.
“I’m a frontier - guard ;
defending our land, that’s what
I’ve been doing. And now
I'm doing the same by ridding
us of scum like you.”
The Avo in mufti drew a
gun, fired at his interrogator,
opened the door, and threaded
his w'ay through the crowd
thronging around the van. He
chose the weak spot, where
mostly women and children
stood. The armed civilians
did not attempt to aim at him ;
the risk of wounding innocents
was too great. The Avo,
rightly counting on the softness
of his adversaries, escaped.
The Green Avo had to
dodge the bullets, and now
gripped the terrified driver,
lifted him out of his seat, and
threw him to the crowd.
The suddenly enraged mob
tore him to pieces.
Tenants of the huge apart-
ment-houses watching from
their windows saw the increas-
ing crowds, soldiers handing
their weapons over to the
rebels, Avo men disarmed and
taken prisoners. They battled
with their fears, but could not
fight the overwhelming desire
to come into the open. Soon
the houses were empty; old
men and women, the sick,
supported by their friends and
relatives, mingled in the crowd,
laughing and singing. Women
came, carrying their babies,
and there were many children
about Tamas’s age imitating
adult talk about the “chances
of the revolution.”
Lovas cared no longer for
consequences. The years of
fear, humiliation, privation and
anxiety for his small flat lost
their significance. The feeling
of loneliness was gone. „ Even
the possibility of informers in
the crowd had terror for him
no longer. He looked in the
faces of the young, the old, the
middle-aged, the well-dressed,
the people in rags, the intel-
lectuals and the factory-
workers.
“My brothers!” he thought.
“I wonder what Kossuth and
Petdfi would think if they
could see us?” a young worker
said to an elderly man who was
holding a Russian “guitar” in
his shaky hands.
r T''HE old man smiled. The
crowd picked up the young,
man’s question. A sudden hush
came over these people who so
much loved to talk and argue.
Petofi, the poet of freedom,
died fighting the Russians;
Kossuth, leader of that revolu-
tion, finished his life in exile.
In Hungary’s thousand years’
history of battles and uprisings,
the revolution of 1848 was on
the lips of everyone, the true
inspiration. In those days the
Austrians had enslaved
Hungary, just as the Russians
had now. When the cup of
misery and humiliation was
filled up to the brim, the nation
rose as one man, threw out
the Magyar hirelings of a
foreign Power and waged her
fight for independence. The
ill-equipped Hungarian Army
scored one victory after
another against the Austrians.
The Hapsburgs could not cope
with the situation, and asked
the Russians to invade from
the east while they bore down
from the west. Between the
two juggernauts Kossuth’s
armies were completely
crushed.
Yet out of defeat came
victory. Kossuth’s revolution
brought emancipation to the
Hungarian serfs, the dual
Austro-Hungarian Monarchy,
and a relative territorial
integrity. But all these things
were secondary to the heritage
those freedom-fighters left
behind, that burning desire for
independence and human
dignity which Fate seemed
always to deny Hungarians.
Now here was this new
chance to make something out
of life. And this small group
of people, with weapons in
their inexperienced hands,
facing professional killers, felt
that destiny gave them another,
and perhaps greater,
opportunity.
“Petofi, my son,” the old man
said at last, “would probably
write a poem. Perhaps he
would just recite the one he
wrote in 1848. We live under
very similar circumstances. As
for Kossuth? You may call me
a pessimist, but I say what he
said after it was all over, what
all of you should remember,
no matter what happens^
“We have not conquered, only
battled . . .
We did not smash tyranny, only
halted its advance.
We did not rescue our country,
only defended her.
But one day, when our history
is written,
The world can say that we
have resisted.’’
Someone in the crowd began
singing the old Kossuth song
of the freedom-fighters:
“Lajos Kossuth sent the
message :
He is losing all his good men ;
If he sends that message again
We must all go, we must help
him.
Long live Hungarian freedom I
Long live our Native Land!”
The crowd sang the song
over and over again. Lovas and
Albert sang, too.
Time lost all significance.
Hunger and thirst didn’t
matter. Lovas and Albert re-
mained at the road-block till
the early-morning hours.
home dog-tired but
grimly pleased, the two
men were very different from
those who left the previous
afternoon to find out how
things stood in the city. In
their exhaustion they didn’t
notice the Russian armored-car
until it was too late.
Bullets echoed through the
misty morning. One hit Albert,
smashing his head to pieces.
Lovas threw himself on the
ground, and crawled through
the gates of an apartment-
house. A light was shining in
the caretaker’s, flat. Lovas
jumped up from the muddy
pavement, and ran . . . He
remembered that most “house-
masters” were informers. But
it was too late to turn back.
He could hear the rumbling of
the armored-car outside the
house.
The illuminated doorway
opened, a man appeared on
the threshold, and motioned
Lovas inside. His wife, a very
old woman, made tea, and
laced it with rum.
Lovas gulped down the hot
drink with murmurs of thanks.
As he drank, he could taste the
salt of his tears in the strong
brew.
CO Lovas escaped to his flat
Paula, with a desperate cry,
embraced him. He pushed her
aside, and faced Maria.
“Maria,” he said, and felt
how disgustingly commonplace
jvas what he must say, “you
LANTANA
The spiked lantana climbed its dead
To scramble through a crutch-held fence.
To packet up a sliding shed
And leaf the grave-quiet innocence
Of an old and tired flower-bed.
This was no game it played; the strife
Of contest measured all its skill,
The parry and the thrust for life
And the dark triumph of a Will.
The duellist plays his blood-tipped sword
Against one subtle enemy,
But earth’s green flashes to be lord
And crown her kingdoms to the sea.
The savage vine, belligerent weed
And stubborn grass too old to age:
Oh, the wild jungle of earth’s need
For green cries out in their dark rage
Like animals that feel their seed
Set fire to Darkness in their cage.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
PI ease find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/IS/6 Foreign .... £3.8/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wellington, N.Z.)
must be stronger than ever.
Albert on our way home was
hit by a Russian bullet and
died.”
He fully expected that
Maria would turn on him and
demand to be taken to the
corpse. But she just stood
there.
“Have you listened to the
radio today, Gyula?” she said
at last. “The announcers
pleaded with the people to stop
fighting. If they don’t the
Hungary-Sweden Soccer-match
must be postponed.”
"OUT personal grief and fear
•*'* were pushed into the back-
ground. The fight went on
relentlessly, and with success.
Even Lovas began to see
“possibilities.”
He rested a little, and ate
as much as could be spared for
him. Then he was ready to
go. The urge in the back of
his mind to find his father was
lost in the greater, national
issue.
He found Maria at his side.
“I’m coming with you,” she
said. “Paula will look after
Judit.”
Lovas accepted his sister’s
resolution to avenge her
husband with the incorrigible
romanticism that is so much
part of the Hungarian’s make-
up.
“May I come with you, now,
Father?” Tamas asked again.
“Not yet, not just yet,” Lovas
said.
Paula didn’t protest. After
they had left she went into the
bathroom, and burst into
tears. Then she dried her eyes
and stepped out.
“Where’s Tamas?” she asked
Judit, who stood in the middle
of the room looking at her
guiltily.
“He’s gone after Uncle and
Mother,” Judit said. “I wanted
to go with him, but I stayed to
tell you he’s gone.”
“You stay here; please do
stay,” Paula said to Judit, and
rushed out into the street. She
ran as fast as her feet could
carry her.
Three streets away she
caught up with the small,
arguing group. Lovas was
yelling at his son, threatening
him, but the boy wouldn't
budge.
“See if you can talk some
sense into him.” Lovas turned
to Paula.
“I think he ought to go with
you, as I should,” Paula said.
“And how about Judit?”
Lovas asked, hoping that this
might change Paula’s mad
decision.
“You wait here ; I’ll go back
and talk to her,” Maria said.
“She’ll stay home if I tell her
she must.”
A few minutes later the man,
two women and a small boy
were on their way to the
battle-areas to help the
freedom-fighters.
T>ASSING through Hay-
square, a strategic
traffic-junction on the Buda
side of the city, they saw a
huge crowd busily building
barricades. There were many
children among the workers.
“I told you, Father,” Tamas
said with pride; “children of
my age can do their bit.”
Lovas couldn’t remember his
son ever mentioning this, but
what did that matter? If other
boys and girls not even in their
teens were able to help why
shouldn’t his own son be one
of them?
There were many familiar
faces in the crowd. The young
man who had wondered what
Kossuth and Petofi would have
said came up to Lovas.
“So you found us, and
brought the family with you,”
he said with satisfaction.
“Many others did, too,”
He told Lovas that the road-
block on Margaret-avenue
was overmanned with volun-
teers, enough to occupy
another strategic point—he had
chosen Hay-square, which the
Russians had somehow
neglected.
The place was too big ; its
would-be defenders didn’t
have enough material to build
an effective barricade. They
derailed trams, overturned old
trucks, worked feverishly, but
to no avail. The Russians could
have overrun them in a matter
of minutes.
But late in the afternoon
came the perfect solution.
Just whose idea it was, Lovas
never found out. All he knew
was that a number of workers
left the barricade earlier that
day, and now returned pulling
and pushing huge Pullman-
cars they had brought from
South Station.
“Just like the Volga boat-
men,” someone in the crowd
shouted, pointing at the men
manoeuvring the Pullman-cars
between, the buildings, then
turning them over, and hook-
ing them securely into the walls.
“These are the Volga boat-
men to end all Volga boat-
men,” a young student cried
out, “so let’s haoor them with
the song.”
The crowd began to sing:
“A ai ooh nyem, a ai ooh
nyem . . .” —the “Song of the
Volga Boatmen.”
Not for years had these
people felt so free and easy.
The news from the country
was encouraging ; most of the
provinces were under rebel
control. A large section of
Budapest was occupied by the
freedom-fighters. Gero, the
hated secretary of the Com-
munist party, had been ousted.
“Szabad Nep” (“F r e e-
People”), the official newspaper
of the regime, praised the
freedom-fighters as heroes and
martyrs, promised an indepen-
dent Socialist Hungary, a
“real” improvement of the
living-standards, free elections
and an all-party Government.
The title of the paper was
no longer a brazen mockery ;
Imre Nagy again at the head
of the Government.
Nagy, the “liberal Com-
munist,” was the people’s hope
now. In 1953 the Communist
party called him in to save the
country from bankruptcy. One
of his first efforts was to put
a stop to the Avos atrocities ;
he wanted to end the forced
collectivisation of farms, ban-
ishment of “political culprits”
from Budapest, and demanded
dissolution of concentration-
camps.
Then, Nagy was lucky to
remain free and alive. But now
here was hope that all those
things this strange mixture of
a Communist and patriot
planned would come true.
Even these concessions would
have been enough to make
Lovas lay down his arms, and
serve a liberal Communist
regime.
“Nagy,” a man on the com-
pleted barricade said, “wants
us to stop fighting. He pro-
mises amnesty for all who lay
down their arms.”
The freedom-fighters looked
at the speaker with suspicion.
He sounded like an agent-
provocateur. Maria faced him
with sudden bitterness.
“Why should we lay down
our arms while the Russkis
are still in the country?”
“And there are Avos still
alive,” another woman joined
her. “My husband died yester-
day. He carried no weapon,
just a loaf of bread for his
family. The Russkis shot him
down in cold blood. And you
say I should put this gun
aside? You dare to suggest
surrender now that we are
strong enough and willing to
fight?”
Tamas had never been a
strong boy; nor were the
others of his age. Never in
their short lives had they eaten
a satisfying meal. At a rest-
period he stood at his father’s
side, almost asleep on his feet.
“You’d better go home with
your mother, lad.” Lovas took
the opportunity to get his son
out of harm's way. It was
rumored that Soviet tanks and
armored-cars were on their
way to break up the Hay-
square barricades.
Tamas was too tired to
object. He obediently followed
Paula. Maria went with them ;
she had an automatic pistol.
Lovas was left alone.
(To be continued next week)


should be received with due apprecia-
tion in this country.
Miss Manning’s appeal is, however,
considerably wider than that. She has,
so she says—and if she has it’s to be
hoped he forgives her for it —a husband
named Cartwright who believes in the
brotherhood of man. who invariably
loses his fountain-pens, who will sit up
all night consoling a maudlin journalist,
who (Cartwright, not the journalist)
snores, who will cross all England to
play in a cricket-match and who,
having no sense whatever of time or
direction, very seldom arrives at any
destination he sets out for. He is also
kind to stray animals, who come to
stay with him, and. reluctantly, to
children, who encourage him to break
his ankle sliding down the banisters.
He is a sort of Every Husband,
whom every wife will recognise with
relish and every husband with
dismay;—
I have sometimes suggested to my
husband Cartwright that the guid-
ing principle of his life is “Everything
in excess.” When he works he often
works without eating or sleeping for
forty-eight hours on end. He can-
not be persuaded to leave a party
while one other guest remains. If
he is asked to bring home two
pounds of potatoes he will bring
with them half-a-dozen other sorts
of vegetables, usually those most
difficult to prepare. So it was that,
having admitted one animal to his
affections, he saw no reason why
we should not have a dozen more . . .
As an Everyman he joins, modestly,
the company of George Grossmith’s
“The Diary of a Nobody,” some of the
sketches of Barry Pain and (though
Augustus was hardly so universal) the
immortal and sadly - unprocurable
“Augustus Carp, by Himself.” The
book is reprinted from “Punch” with
illustrations by Len Deighton.
Poet of Provence
In Introduction to Mistral (Heine-
mann) the bitterness of Richard
Aldington’s recent work is replaced by
a placid and careful account of the
Provencal poet.
Indeed, in places the book seems a
return for Provencal hospitality ; and
it is dedicated to Roy Campbell, who
early in his career made some of his
finest successes of versions or transla-
tions of Mistral’s poems, “Horses on
the Camargue,” for instance.
The key of the book, and also of
Mistral, is the problem whether Pro-
vencal is a French dialect, or a
distinct language, a problem Mistral
solved for himself by compiling a dic-
tionary of Provencal, translating the
Bible into Provencal, writing a litera-
ture of Provencal poetry, and getting
together at Arles a museum illustrative
of Provencal customs and so on.
With deceptive ease, Mr. Aldington
ambles through Mistral’s life, giving
excerpts from his poetry with the
exquisite prose-translations he has
made famous in his researches into the
byways of many languages, and some
account of Mistral’s fellow-Provencal
poets, until the whole work becomes a
story of a modern country-of-the-mind
united under the kingship of a man-of-
letters ; and that is surely a remarkable
story to have to tell!
FOR THOSE IN LOVE
This love wears off as the bright paint
wears off ferry-boats
And must then give way to another
love,
Desire no longer lapping at your
throats.
Then will the compass of your union
move
From northern heat to a deep frigid
south
And mouths become a port for
sympathies,
No longer seeking in another mouth
The negus of their youthful fantasies.
In the close dark or whirled on a
ballroom floor,
Close interlocked or tethered by your
thoughts
Together, turn away and halt before
The mirror of your true eye that
reports
The shape of love —you seldom know,
of course,
Being within its belly like the Greeks,
Dimensions of this fabled wooden
horse:
So pause until that cold observer
speaks.
For the optical mind can witness the
long gap
Of time, and penetrate its sombre
mists,
Recognising how on your twin map,
That sensual heat, beguiled by cata-
lysts
Which may prove false, in ardor tries
to fuse
Two continents together—but in vain;
For such a line of fire can only lose
The goal you sought and sacrifice the
game.
But' this is not a puritanical cry
Of spiritual love, cold-faced and grim,
That spurns all flesh as evil to the eye
Of a God who hates created breast
and limb;
Such lean and brittle parody of love
Leave to the fool, the rigid Pharisee
And, showered with God’s bright sun-
light from above,
Love not as two but as a bonded
three.
So reap w ith joy all the richness of your
love.
And, tireless, seek each other to the
full;
For love’s an explanation that will
prove
A daily view of inexhaustible
New vistas that you might have never
known,
Rewarding the red heart’s intrepid toil,
And will unearth new veins of brilliant
stone
For ever in what seemed familiar soil.
Victoria. Chris Wallace-Crabbe.
Reviewed Briefly
Exploring the Deep Pacific: Helen
Raitt (Staples). Mrs. Raitt somehow
strayed into an official U.S. survey of
such spots as the Tonga Deep (the
subject of a fine ballad by Will
Lawson) and should be very interest-
ing. Unfortunately she has no genuine
personal interest in submarine geology,
so has to cook-up her book out of
statistics and journalistic interviews;
which makes it dull and cluttered with
detail. It takes a Charles Laseron to
make geology exciting.
* * * *
The Complete Home Doctor: Dr.
Herman Pomeranz and Dr. Irvin S.
Koll (Bernard Hanison). A large,
illustrated book, with a special section
on children, telling you how to recog-
nise scores of common ailments and
what you should do about them. The
publishers say that Dr. Pomeranz is
a New York physician and a well-
known writer on medical subjects; Dr.
Koll is director of the health depart-
ment in the Western Illinois State
College; and they have been helped
in the book by specialists from the
Mayo Foundation, etc.
* * * *
Dangerous Estate: Francis Williams
(Longmans). A careful, sober and
sometimes entertaining history of
English newspapers, with a survey of
contemporary trends very much applic-
able to Australia. Thus the London
“News of the World” —“the most
traditional of all British newspapers”
—deals chiefly in “the solid, careful,
objective presentation of police-court
reports of rape, seduction, violence and
marital infidelity in eveiy part of the


The Songs of A Sentimental Bloke
By C. J. DENNIS
C. J. Dennis rose from obscurity to national fame as Australia’s “Laureate of the Larrikin”
with the publication of one small book. That book was “The Sentimental Bloke.” When it was to
be published in 1915 the author hoped to get 300 subscribers; within eighteen months 66,000
copies had been sold.
This new edition of the Sentimental Bloke is as far as possible a replica of that first edition.
The jacket and line illustrations are the original ones drawn by Hal Gye. The extensive
glossary designed by C. J. Dennis for the guidance of "the Thoroughly Genteel” is also' given,
and it is interesting to note how many of these words have passed
into our general usage. 12/6 (post 7(1.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereag'h Street, Sydney. 66-68 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, C.l.
One of the most moving love stories of 1957
RACHEL CADE
Charles Mercer
Against a stirring background of Africa and The Eastern Congo Charles
Mercer has set a tremendously exciting and moving story of a woman’s search
for love and understanding. Interwoven are four great themes: medicine,
human passion, savage magic and Christian faith.
A Literary Guild choice
From all
Booksellers
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Ready
Now
country”; and this is no more new in
journalism than is the concept of a
newspaper as an entertainment—“ The
public taste of a very large mass of
newspaper readers is almost identi-
cally the same as that of its grand-
fathers.” Mr. Williams doesn’t seem
to object to popular muck continuing
to be popular muck; but what he sees
as a “tragedy,” for journalists as well
as the public, is the “uncharacteristic
and uncongenial” imitation of the
yellow-press forced on “the middle
group of serious popular papers” by
the exigencies of competition.
* * * *
Plain Sailing: Gabor Denes (Faber).
Practical advice for beginner and
expert, from how to row a dinghy
to how to win international yacht-
races. Clearly written and illustrated
with many excellent photographs.
* * *
H.M.S. Fidelity: Marcel Jullian
(Souvenir Press). The fantastic story
of a French merchantman which, after
the capitulation of France in World
War 11, sailed for Britain and was
enrolled in the Navy as a Q-ship: two
French agents aboard it—a man and
a woman—had the secret of a new
French explosive named “Plastic,”
designed to blow-up shipping. Which,
with the most incredible string of
piratical and Rabelaisian adventures,
they proceeded to do. The facts for
the story were provided by two
survivors from the British crew, Lt.-
Com. Pat Leary, D. 5.0., R.N., and
Lt. George Archibald, R.N. The book
was first published in France.
* * * *
The Bridge at Andau: James A.
Michener (Seeker and Warburg).
Michener flew to Vienna in November,
1956, a few days after the Hungarian
uprising and, at various points along
the Austro-Hungarian border, inter-
viewed Hungarian refugees—some of
whose stories he tells in this book. It
is a gripping piece of journalism, very
moving and shocking, and giving a
clear picture of the fighting and of the
tyranny that led to —and brutally
subdued —the revolt.
* * * *
The Art of Translation: Theodore
H. Savory (Cape; Australasian Publish-
ing Co.). An interesting survey of the
problems of translation—the classics,
the Bible, French and German litera-
ture—of special point at the moment
when the Penguins have done so much
to popularise translations of the
classics. Talking of “expansion” in
translation—a fault to be avoided—
Mr. Savory points out that, while the
first book of the ‘VEneid” is 756 lines,
which is also the precise length of
Billson’s translation, James Rhoades
took 947 lines for it and Dryden 1065.
The “unequalled example” of expan-
sion is Tate and Brady’s version of
Psalm 34, in which the single word
“semper” (“always”) becomes
“Through all the changing scenes of
life In trouble and in joy.”
* * * *
Two Against the Ice: Ejnar Mikkel-
sen (Rupert Hart-Davis). Translated
from the Danish by Maurice Michael,
this is the story of an expedition
which in 1910 set out for Northern
Greenland to try to recover the papers
of an earlier expedition (Mylius-
Erichsen’s), the leaders of which had
perished. With one companion,
enduring many hardships, Mikkelsfen
was alone in the icy north for three
years. The book—or the translation
—is a bit stiff and awkward, but it’s
a memorable story.
* * * *
Newman: Prose and Poetry: selected
by Geoffrey Tillotson (Rupert Hart-
Davis). This, 842 pages, is a volume
from the “Reynard Library,” hand-
somely bound in blue buckram with
bevelled edges and printed in fairly
small but still readable type on fine
white paper: a most beautiful produc-
tion. The contents include selected
sermons, letters, “The Dream of
Gerontius” and other poems, the
religious novel “Loss and Gain” and
the autobiographical “History of My
Religious Opinions.”
* * * *
Abroad; Travel Stories: selected by
Alan Ross (Faber). The idea of this
book is not so much to “document”
far-away places, which could be done
by selections from books of travel, but
to show a few distant and exotic scenes
as mirrored in the writings of expert
and sophisticated short-story writers:
Maupassant, Chekhov, Forster,
Graham Greene, Nicolson,
James Hanley, Osbert Sitwell, Scott
Fitzgerald Hemingway, Maugham,
Conrad and Kipling are omitted as too
well known and too readily available,
A pleasant and effortless sort of book,
like a sea-trip around the world, with
nobody, except the compiler, to be
tipped.
* * * *
Votes for Women: Roger Fulford
(Faber). This account of the shameful
rebellion which made the woman of
1914 what she is today won the
London “Evening Standard” £5OOO
book-prize, although it speaks with
obvious approval of the whole disgrace-
ful business, hunger-strikes, efforts to
invade Buckingham Palace, riotous
meetings, up to (he vote in the House
of Commons in December, 1917, when
all was lost by 364 votes to 23. With
16 plates and 19 pages of condensed
biographies of the leading rebels, many
from good homes,
* * * *
No Ordinary Seaman: James Lake
(Barker). A story of the life of a boy-
seaman on an English cruiser in action
during World War 11. These boys
facing men’s risks were around sixteen
to eighteen years old; the story ends
with one of them swimming to the
captain’s float, their ship having been
sunk, to demand to be made an
ordinary seaman, as this is his
eighteenth birthday.


V
yr
>*— J 7 "
S£i3sa&^^^=i c S^^'^i;
sc:
-AULli—'
Q? - %f~ YrfeV' r l - 3^?— sv>- 5 v>-
w**' ~
r> r *^L-—r=
r#/. 1
He will fee
carrying 1 on . . •
The emphasis these days for the man on the
land is CONSERVATION of soil, fodder
and stock. Scientific study of agricultural
problems has revealed ways of improving the
quality and quantity of output and of CON-
SERVING THE FERTILITY 'OF THE
LAND. More and more research is being
undertaken to help the nlan on the land conserve
and consolidate. There is, however, a more
pressing problem—THAT OF CONSERV-
ING HIS ESTATE; making sure that upon
his death his property may pass on to his
Beneficiaries unencumbered by death duties.
Land values today are higher than they have
ever been, yet paradoxically the growth in value
has increased the liability, for there is one debt
that cannot be escaped—DEATH DUTIES.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited, “The M.L.C.,” has for
many years specialised in the field of ESTATE
CONSERVATION, and has developed an
attractive range of policies especially suitable
for the purpose. In some cases the amount
required to pay Death Duties is considerable,
and the M.L.C. offers a specially reduced
premium rate for higher-than-average require-
ments—this premium rate is one of the lowest
available in. Australia today.
Particulars will be readily supplied without obligation upon request. Learn more about THE
M.L.C. ESTATE CONSERVATION PLAN as it concerns you personally. Contact your
nearest M.L.C. man for further details or drop a note to the M.L.C. at Sydney (G.P.O. Box
1598) or the nearest M.L.C. District Office.
C?»
a
Be Well Advised by the M.L.C. Man
ML.7SA/FP
