

1
Send a gift of wine to your friends,
relatives or business associates in Britain, for
birthdays, weddings, anniversaries and all celebra-
tions. From stocks in their London cellars, the- House of
Seppelt can arrange immediate deliveries of their products
to any address in the United Kingdom. Your nearest office of
B. Seppelt & Sons Utd. will supply details of this service.
THE HOUSE OF" SEPPELT
ESTABLISHED 1851
B. SEPPELT & SONS LTD.
ADELAIDE: Box 1422 H, G.P O.
SYDNEY: Box 165, G.P.O.
MELBOURNE: Box 285 E, G.P.O.
BRISBANE: Box 352 E. G.P.O.
FREMANTLE: Box 64, G.P.O.
CRYSTAL ST., BROKEN HILL
88 CANNON ST.. LONDON. EC.4.
The Bulletin
Ruhen to Casey —page n
Wedhesday, November 13, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE EAST WINDOW, KING’S CHAPEL, CAMBRIDGE
THE origin* of Cambridge, one of Britain’s great university, cities,
is lost in 'the far-distant past, but it is believed to have been
the site of a Roman settlement which was later occupied by the
Saxons and the Normans. The growth and prosperity of the town
from earliest times was due to its situation beside the River Granta,
or Cam, as it is now .known. Nearly nine hundred years ago it was
an important bridgehead on the only trade route between eastern
and central England, and it is not surprising, therefore, that it was
chosen by itinerant lecturers and scholars from neighboring monas-
teries as a centre for their activities —a movement which gradually
developed into the early university.
Peterhouse, the oldest college, was founded in 1280, and parts
of the original structure can still be seen. Other foundations
followed during the next three hundred years, and today there are
few other towns or cities in Britain which can provide examples of
Norman, medieval and later styles of architecture in such profusion.
The pinnacles of King’s College Chapel, visible from the main
road, attract visitors to one of the great architectural glories of
England —a building which can only be described by the word
“perfect.” It was built between the years 1446 and 1515, and
both within and without it transcends superlatives. The interior walls
are richly ornamented with the Tudor rose, numerous coats-of-arms,
portcullises and other heraldic devices.
Outstanding features are the fan-vaulting, the 25 magnificent
stained-glass windows dating from the early 16th century', and richly-
decorated choir screen. The interior is both bold and simple, and
its grandeur inspired three sonnets by Wordsworth. From this
Chapel on Christmas Eve each year is broadcast a carol service which
is heard throughout the world, and to it have journeyed visitors from
distant countries to hear its renowned choral and organ music.
No. 375: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTJEK, Box 2671. G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
WHO WAS BALLARAT HARRY?
The Tichborne Case has been dis-
cussed so often in books and newspaper
articles that, unless some fresh light
could be thrown on it, there is not much
reason for yet another book to appear;
and Michael Gilbert’s The Claimant
(Constable), though a readable and
orderly survey, has essentially nothing
new to say.
Still, it is always a fascinating story:
how Arthur Orton, the son of a ship’s
butcher from Wapping, made his way
to Tasmania, thence to Wagga,
N. S. Wales, where, in the humble
capacity of a butcher, he claimed to
be the long-lost Roger Charles Tich-
borne, heir to a title and a fortune,
and sailed for England to make good
his claims and was “recognised” by,
among a host of others, his own
mother... eventually, after a prolonged
legal battle, to finish in prison and
ruin.
There will always be new readers
for such a story, and old readers
amused to renew acquaintance with it;
and, though Michael Gilbert doesn’t
suggest it, there is, in fact, one point
in his survey from which a most
startling if quite unprovable new
theory could be developed. For who,
among the host of Arthur Orton’s
acquaintances, was Ballarat Harry?
And what conceivable part could he
have played in the story?
There is a very nasty suspicion, says
Gilbert, that Orton, in the course of
his butchering activities, butchered
Ballarat Harry.
Orton seems to have met him when
both were working at Dargo, a station
in Victoria owned by John Foster, of
Hobart. One day at the family’s
other station of Boisdale, Mrs. Foster
saw Orton riding in from Dargo,
deserting his job, And, says Gilbert,
all he would say was, “Since Ballarat
Harry disappeared, Dargo’s been too
lonely for me.” Whether Ballarat
Harry was his subordinate, or
another settler, or merely a casual
passer-by, is not really explained.
But there was some mystery about
his death. And in after years the
tongue of gossip suggested that
Arthur may even have been respon-
sible for Harry’s disappearance.
The question is not likely to be
answered now.
Now, of course, the great mystery in
the Tichborne case is how Arthur
Orton managed to persuade so many
people that he was Roger Tichborne
(whom he didn’t in the least resemble),
and how, even when he first made his
claim in Australia, he seemed to have
some genuine knowledge, however
garbled, of the Tichborne family and
their affairs.
He told Mr. Gibbes, the impetuous
Wagga solicitor who first proclaimed
that he was Tichborne, that he had two
sisters, both born in France, who had
died there, and that he had derived
property from a relative named
Doughty: and at least these parts of
a somewhat muddled statement were
true.
He seems to have had enough Tich-
borne knowledge to convince a
shadowy Mr. Guilfoyle, a florist of
Double Bay and formerly gardener to
the Tichbornes, that he was the missing
heir—though Guilfoyle seems after-
wards to have changed his mind about
this.
He was certainly able to have a most
knowledgeable Tichborne conversation
with the negro Bogle, who had strayed
to Sydney after having formerly been
body-servant to Roger Tichborne’s
uncle:—
The claimant went on to discuss
mutual friends, the Godwins, Guys
and Etheridges and the gamekeeper,
Brand. And Sir James’s old nurse,
Mrs. Martin, a wonderful old lady
who had lived to be ninety. He even
inquired after Bogle’s two elder
sons, James and Andrew, and his
wife . . .
Where did Arthur Orton, the butcher
from Wapping and Wagga, get all this
information? How was it that even
Roger Tichborne’s fiancee, whom
Orton so terribly slandered, and who
didn’t believe in him for a moment,
nevertheless thought that something of
the real Roger seemed to “hover over”
the impostor? And how, in the first
place, did it ever occur to this illiterate
butcher, suspected of horse-stealing and
murder, to make so extravagant, so
monstrous, so unheard-of a bid for
rank and fortune?
Suppose, for one almost equally
extravagant moment, that Ballarat
Harry, whom Orton may have
murdered at Dargo, was Roger Tich-
borne; the real missing heir; miracu-
lously rescued from the shipwreck off
South America as Orton claimed to
have been; taken to Australia as Orton
claimed to have been because that was
where the rescuing ship was bound for;
wandering incognito in the outback
because, as there is some evidence to
suggest, he was a drunkard . . . That,
if it were possible, would explain the
whole thing: where Orton got his
information; how he managed to
acquire some flavor of Tichborne’s
personality; and how he first got that
most extravagant notion of impersona-
ting him and claiming his fortune. It
could also explain—if in fact he did
do so foul a deed —why he murdered
Ballarat Harry.
It is, surely, a very tempting theory.
The only trouble with it is that there
is not the slightest shred of evidence
to support it. Ballarat Harry, whoever
he may have been and however he may
have died, seems utterly out of reach.
It is all too probable that Tichborne
was drowned in the shipwreck and
never set foot in Australia. And, as
Gilbert points out, it is possible that
Orton got his first information from
an article about the Tichbornes in the
“Illustrated London News,” which, it
is said, was available in the Mechanics
Institute Library in Wagga, and got
the subsequent family-gossip with
which he bewildered poor Bogle from
a prior interview with Guilfoyle.
At one point Gilbert’s most interest-
ing narrative requires correction. He
quotes a man named Redman, who
knew Orton when he was cook at a
place in Victoria with the beautiful
name of Nowhere Else, to the effect
that the impostor was “a man of some
pretensions. He liked to be called
‘Doctor.’ ” “Doctor” is, of course, a
common outback slang-term for
“cook”; and we must not have Arthur
Orton, of all people, convicted of undue
pretensions.
Crime Story
The detective-stoiy at its best is as
a performance by a magician to the
straight-out tragedy of the serious
novel. Judah Waten’s Shares in
Murder (Australasian Book Society) is
more properly a crime-novel, an
anything-but-magical account of the
investigation of the murder of a
divorcee living by herself in a small
cottage in an Australian suburb.
Superintendent Fields of the Central
Crime Squad, who is being criticised in
the press for failure to arrest a busy
jewel-thief, finds evidence that the
thief has been through the murdered
woman’s house, and overturns the
linderworld in search of him.
This involves racy accounts of raids
on a sly-grog joint and a high-class
gambling joint, a visit to a suburban
brothel and the home of a wealthy
jeweller, who turns out to be a fence
and discloses the name of the wanted
jewel-thief. Detective Filbert bashes
out of the jewel-thief a confession to
the murder.
Only the sophisticated and cynical
Inspector Brummel remains unsatisfied.
He tracks down the murdered woman’s
young lover, and finds that the lover
has been blackmailing the divorcee’s
rich businessman sugar-daddy: it was
the sugar-daddy who beat the woman
to death with his fists. Inspector
Brummel visits the sugar-daddy and
accepts a suburban pub as the price of
(Continued on page 58)


INTERNATIONAL LIGHTWEIGHT
TRUCKS TO MATCH YOUR JOBS'
UTILITY : International AS-110, AS-112 Utility
in 12 cwt. and 15 cwt. capacities. A real truck—
not just a converted passenger car.
TRAY BODY : Solid tray-bodies are available
to fit all the lightweight International chassis.
i
PANEL : Much more clear carrying space
than a merely modified passenger car.
....
DROP-SIDES : Champion of the I ton cap-
acity class. The International AS-120 is available
in 115 in. and 127 in. wheelbase.
mmm
PICK-UP : All-steel pick-up body mounted on
International AS-110, 15 cwt. Available in 115
and 127 in. wheelbase.
There are plenty of reasons why these
international lightweights will do a better
trucking job for you. They are built in
Australia to meet our particular operating
conditions. Their Australian Black Dia-
•nond engines deliver more usable power at economical r.p.m. Driver-designed cabs have every
facility for operator comfort.
International trucks are “all-truck built”—-no compromise with “beefed-up” car parts. They are
backed by complete parts and service facilities throughout Australia.
Why not call at the International Harvester office in your State or your nearest I.H. Dealer and
see for yourself.
ALL TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY
H INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. FMT 7i7/«


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Nov. 13, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4057
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
EBASCO AND FIASCO
THE Ebasco report on Government
transport in New South Wales has just
been released, and the Federal Cabinet
inquiry into the functions of Common-
wealth departments has just begun. In
a way it’s a pity the two committees
couldn’t have swapped jobs. The
Ebasco team, which consisted of
American business-efficiency experts,
could have brought coldly dispassionate
minds to a study of the Federal public
service, and the committee of Federal
Ministers could have been equally
judicial in their approach to the
transport problems of New South
Wales.
Had this procedure been adopted
there would probably have been very
little difference in the end-result of the
Sydney side of the inquiries; the Cahill
Government would still have taken
notice of just such parts of the report
as suited the transport unions, finding
excuses for anything which might lose
it popularity or votes. As to the
Federal inquiry, it seems quite likely
that the taxpayers might have had very
good reason for approving the change.
The Ebasco experts began their
investigation nearly 18 months ago,
and submitted an interim report early
this year. The complete report, running
into 600 pages, was tabled in the N.S.W.
Assembly last Tuesday. It expressed
the opinion that nearly £l2 million a
year could be saved on Government
transport-services— million on the
railways and £2,280,000 on trams and
buses. If these estimates could be
translated into fact both services would
be paying their way—a state of affairs
that N.S.W. Transport Ministers of
recent years have virtually banished
from their thinking. Last year the
trains lost £5,794,288: the trams and
buses £1,168,000.
Transport difficulties are not peculiar
to N.S.W., and the Ebasco men
reported that similar problems had
faced the railways authorities in
Canada and U.S.A. In those countries
they were solved by increased efficiency
and by reducing operating costs. The
experts saw no reason why what had
been successful in Canada and America
should not also give good results in
N.S.W. (The same argument, of course,
applies to the transport systems of other
Australian States.)
There is nothing revolutionary in
suggesting the cutting of operating
costs. The Cahills have tried to make
their transport pay on a low-fare basis.
They’ve tried to make it pay by raising
the fares. In both courses they have
been signally unsuccessful, and Ebasco
has now told them that further increases
would result only in further loss of
business, with no substantial improve-
ment in revenue. If the North American
example is to be followed it will entail
modernisation of plant; mechanisation
of operating functions; improvement in
operating methods and the adjustment
of passenger services to the changed
role of the railways in this field.
Of the need for the modernisation
of plant to increase efficiency and
reduce expenses the report says;—
This is especially true with respect to
locomotives where steam still powers
over 95 per cent, of the locomotive-fleet,
and where some of the steam-units
have been in service for as long as 76
years.
The fact that some locomotives built
in 1881 are still hauling trains today
is a remarkable tribute to the men who
built them and the men who have kept
them in repair, but it certainly seems
that such old-timers would be of more
interest to the Railways Historical
Society than to an organisation trying
to compete with motorised road-
transport.
Diesel locomotives are recommended
as the chief answer to this problem,
together with increased electrification
of certain near-city lines, the substitu-
tion of diesel-cars for trains on remote,
little-used lines and the modernisation
of much of the goods rolling-stock.
Other big economies are suggested in
the operating of running-yards and by
modernisation and mechanisation of
accounting-systems.
Expressing approval of the policy of
switching from trams to buses, Ebasco
says the maximum benefit can be
obtained only by a change to a 100-
per-cent. one-man-bus system. It
recommends this as an ultimate goal.
So much for the report. It remains
to be seen to what extent the N.S.W.
Government will follow the advice for
which it has paid £lOO,OOO. Also, to
what extent the transport unions will
allow it to follow the advice. If the
report does have the effect of pulling
the transport-services out of the red the
fee will have been well spent.
The Federal Cabinet committee
inquiry into Commonwealth depart-
ments stems from complaints that are
older than the Government. The
present Ministers, when in Opposition,
were critical of the size of the Com-
monwealth public service, and in the
1949 election campaign they advocated
its reduction. In his policy-speech on
that occasion Mr. Menzies said,
What we propose to do is to reorgan,
ise the departments, some of which
have grown up rather like Topsy; to
rationalise their work; to cut-out over-
lapping; to reduce red-tape; to simplify
procedures.
In due course—though in no hurry
—there was a certain amount of
reorganisation of departments. In some
there was even a reduction of personnel.
But the movement didn’t last. Any cuts
that were made were more than
matched by growth in other directions.
Professor Bland’s Public Accounts
Committee, which was set up as a
result of urgings from the public and
from back-benchers, has been very
caustic on the subject of departmental
extravagance and ill-conceived or
carelessly authorised expenditure. That
the Government itself realised that all
was not well was indicated in Sir
Arthur Fadden’s Budget speech when
he said,
The Government has decided to make
a full review of the functions of all
Commonwealth departments and has
established a committee of Cabinet for
the purpose. This committee will
examine the functions performed by
each department from the standpoint
of cost and of public need and will
report its conclusions to Cabinet.
In reply to criticism of this method of
inquiry the Prime Minister said
recently that he considered a
Ministerial committee more qualified to
tackle the job than an outside body.
Each Minister on the committee has
had personal experience of the conduct
of several departments, the average
number being not less than seven.
The experience of Ministers is not
in question, but as they apparently
didn’t find anything wrong with the
various departments during the years
they were associated with them, it is
hard to see why they should be
expected to do so now. Far more fruit-
ful would be an inquiry by an outside
body something along the lines
suggested by the Victorian Employers’
Federation. That organisation proposed
that the Commonwealth public service
should be reviewed by a body of experts
comprising one or two business
consultants, a professor of Public
Administration, a judge and a business-
man, preferably with a man from
overseas as chairman. The Prime
Minister has said that if his Cabinet
committee finds it needs skilled outside
assistance on any subject it will “not
hesitate to act accordingly.” That is
scarcely enough. The need is not for
outside assistance, but for an outside
committee. Canberra needs an Ebasco,
not a fiasco, report.


THE OLD DOGGIE IN THE WINDOW


PLAIN ENGLISH
First Shots
[From London]
The war is on. After years of shilly-
shallying, the U.K. Government has taken
up a stand from which there can be no
orderly retreat. If, between now and the
spring, courage fails in the difficult and
unpopular campaign, the outcome could
easily be defeat.
The issue is not, as Mr. Harold Wilson
implies, “a straight declaration of war”
against the trade-unions, but a belated,
and no-longer-to-be-averted, battle against
inflation. The Labor Shadow Chancellor
and his colleague, Mr. Gaitskell, know
this well enough ; and, since the debate on
the economic situation was on a higher
level of responsibility than most, so does
the entire House of Commons.
But the opportunities for making party
capital won’t be neglected. Mr. Wilson
did not directly accuse the Chancellor of
such anti-social belligerency, but, by a
subtle use of phrase, implied that this was
what he had done.
Mr. Gaitskell, in a public speech, has
said: “The right way to approach this
problem is for the Government to sit
down jointly with employers and trade-
union leaders and try to reach agreement
on how the things should be handled.”
He must know that the Government has
tried this approach again and again to the
point of heartbreak, and that its over-
anxiety to conciliate the unions and to
keep the industrial peace is one of the
contributory factors to the present
situation.
It is interesting to look back to late-
September, after the bank-rate increase.
Despite the Government’s bad record for
apparent irresolution, there was an
opinion in well-informed quarters in the
City that this time it meant business.
There were no immediate signs, it is true,
because the Cabinet wanted to get the
annual conference over and, most
important, to avert any show of feeling,
latently strong, against the militant and
stubborn trade-union leaders.
Now the first salvoes have been fired,
but only into the air. The Government
isn’t telling the Transport Commission
that it mustn’t allow any wage-increases,
but only that they must be paid for out of
the commission’s own resources, like any
other employer. There are two conclu-
sions to be drawn from this and other,
similar, announcements. First, the point
has now been reached when the Govern-
ment has to show that it can be tough—
as witness Mr. Macleod’s warning that
perhaps we have overstressed the danger
of strikes. And second, by vetoing a 3p.c.
award to hospital employees, it has
established that the State is also a con-
siderable employer of labor ; as if to say
“Nationalised industries, take note.”
Officials of all unions, from those
flagrantly trade in character to profes-
sional organisations like NALGO and the
Medical Practitioners’ Unions, are indig-
nant. What more natural, since their
function is to look after the interests of
their members? Yet their authority—
particularly the unions affiliated to the
T.U.C. —is not as absolute as many
people fear. The leaders are worried,
simply because of the fact that, if the
extra money to meet the claims isn’t there,
their influence weakens —they know that
“solidarity” is largely illusionary under
the privation of strike-pay.
Nor do the more realistic labor-leaders
wish to connive at an industrial crisis. The
parochial and defiantly selfish attitude of
the unions has so alienated public opinion
as to jeopardise the Labor-party’s chance
of success. Supposing that the hot-headed
among them were foolish enough to
provoke a general strike or a showdown
on the lines of that in 1926. After it was
settled the Government could go to the
country and be sure of success.
Co-operation in New Guinea
Although the Netherlands Government
has repeatedly affirmed that it has no
intention of handing over West New
Guinea to Indonesia and Australia has
consistently supported Dutch sovereignty,
nothing quite so definite as last week’s
joint declaration by the two Governments
had hitherto been lt was a frank
and sensible statement which .should
convince all reasonable members of the
United Nations that the needs of the
people of New Guinea are best served
by a continuance of the present
administration.
The two Governments agreed that in
relation to the Territories of New Guinea
(Dutch New Guinea, the former Man-
dated Territory and Papua):
1. Their policies would be based on the
interests and inalienable rights of the
inhabitants, in conformity with the pro-
visions and spirit of the U.N. Charter.
2. That the territories are geographically
and ethnologically related, and that
future development of their respective
populations must benefit from co-
operation in policy and administration.
3. They are therefore pursuing, and will
continue to pursue, policies directed
towards the political, economic, social
and educational advancement of the
peoples in their territories in a manner
which recognises this ethnological and
geographical affinity.
4. They will continue and strengthen the
co-operation at present existing between
their respective administrations in the
territories.
5. In so doing the two Governments are
determined to promote an uninterrupted
development of this process until such
time as the inhabitants of the territories
concerned will be in a position to deter-
mine their own future.
In view of the great surge of self-
government throughout former colonial
territories in Asia and Africa, no one
expects the people of New Guinea to
remain indefinitely under the rule of Aus-
tralia and the Netherlands. It is equally
unrealistic to speak of granting immediate
self-government to people who have just
emerged from the Stone Age and whose
organisation has never been extended
beyond the village-level.
The third alternative (in the case of
West New Guinea) is the one periodic-
ally and noisily raised by Indonesia,
which claims complete sovereignty over
the Dutch end of New Guinea. Dr.
Helmi, the Indonesian Ambassador to
Australia, reacted to the joint statement
by saying that Australia had made a mis-
take and should not miss the chance of
correcting it. He said, “The wisest thing
for the Dutch to do is to hand back West
New Guinea to its legitimate owner,
Indonesia, as the United States and
Britain did with their colonial territories.”
Indonesia is not, and has never been,
the legitimate owner of any part of New
Guinea. Its Government, which is so
vocal in its claims, is unable to exert its
authority throughout all the scattered
islands nominally under its rule, and has
not the funds, the trained men or the
economic capacity to develop New
Guinea, which, if handed over to it, would
lose for ever all chance of ever achieving
self-government. Far from ending
colonialism, handing over West New
Guinea to the men of Djakarta would
perpetuate it.
New Guinea Background
[Front Canberra]
First task for R. G. Casey, on return
from one of his longest absences abroad,
was to settle once and for all the Gov-
ernment’s stand in relation to the sticky
Dutch New Guinea issue.
His first official caller in Canberra was
Dutch Territories Minister G. P. Helders,
who, five days before, with Australia’s
Minister for Territories, Paul Hasluck,
had issued a joint manifesto setting-out
the future political approach to the pro-
blems of New Guinea, both Australian
and Dutch.
Casey’s task was not an enviable one.
His persuasive, middle-of-the-road
approach to all South-east Asian countries
has been ruffled by the unrelenting
attacks on Dutch sovereignty over West
New Guinea by Indonesian leaders.
Not the least vocal has been the
Indonesian Ambassador to Australia (Dr.
A. Y. Helmi), whose smooth, shrewd
tactics in other matters have been both
applauded and condemned in diplomatic
circles.
Timed perfectly to coincide with the
arrival in Canberra of Dutch Minister
Helders, Helmi fired a most undiplomatic
broadside, claiming the days of the Dutch
holding their last bit of colonial pos-
session in the Pacific area were numbered.
“The ‘colonial ship’ 'is sinking. No
effort can save it. History is taking its
course,” he said.
Whether these jibes impressed the
Dutch Minister isn’t known, but they cer-
tainly added to the embarrassment which
Casey has felt ever since the West New
Guinea —the Indonesians call it West
Irian —issue became a “hot” one.
But he made the Government’s position
crystal-clear. Australian policy is to back
the Dutch to the hilt in their decision to
retain possession over their last remain-
ing territory in the once-fabulous Dutch
East Indies.
Significantly, the five-point plan which
followed the Helders-Hasluck meeting
earlier in Port Moresby pointed-out the
belief of both Governments that Dutch
New Gu ; nea, the Australian Trust Terri-
tory of New Guinea and Papua were


geographically and ethndogically related,
and future development of their respective
populations must benefit from co-opera-
tion in policy and administration.^
This was a direct answer to the claim
by Indonesia’s Foreign Affairs Minister
Subandrio that it was “the duty of the
Indonesian people to claim the indepen-
dence of all the territory of Indonesia
formerly ruled by the Dutch lest they be
accused by their brethren in West New
Guinea of neglecting their fate.”
The Dutch Territories Minister, while
he remained in Canberra, had long talks
with the administrative authorities in the
Territories Department on future plans
for more concentrated administrative
arrangements in Dutch New Guinea.
Consultations between the two Admini-
strations have become an established
practice in recent years following the
visit to New Guinea and Australia by
the Netherlands Ministers for Foreign
Affairs and Oversea Affairs in July, 1953.
During that visit agreement was
reached that there should be a con-
tinuing exchange of information between
the two Administrations.
Red Re-emergence
Successes by the Reds at the A.C.T.U.
congress have made some of the moderate
elements in Melbourne take a second
look at the Labor picture on the indus-
trial front, confirming the unease of
which they have been barely aware for
the last year or so since Evatt split
Labor.
What |hey see is unquestionable
evidence of the gradual re-emergence of
the Reds, not to the full strength and
power of 1950, but in continual small
gains, not the least of which is getting
good “party”-men into positions that, if
not important, are listening-posts.
The Communists hold the balance of
power between the A.L.P. and Demo-
cratic Labor-party supporters in the
Trades Hall Council. In return for their
support against the D.L.P., the political
wing of the industrial-groupers, the
Trades Hall executive at the beginning of
the split threw them a few crumbs at the
meetings, but they now put up motions
and appointees with a confidence that is
invariably justified by the alacrity with
which they are accepted.
In addition to the increased power in
the A.C.T.U., recent successes by the
Reds include securing dominance of the
Federal council of the A.E.U. and the
placing of two party-supporters on the
State executive of the A.L.P.
Quite as important as any of these has
been the reinstatement as secretary (and
controller) of the Victorian A.R.U. of
Jacky Brown.
Industrial-groupers are still fighting as
determinedly in the unions in Victoria
and can still hold their own in those where
the members are generally educated
above the merit certificate ; but they find
it a difficult task in the others without
“official” backing from either the A.L.P.
or the Trades Hall executive.
‘No, indeed you can't bring it home and keep it! It belongs to the Russians.”
Australian Risk-capital
Probably the first extension to Aus-
tralia of the production of risk-capital for
young men or young enterprises, which
has been a fascinating preoccupation with
some American millionaires in recent
years, is the announcement by A. V.
Jennings, who is chairman of the sub-
stantial building-company which bears his
name, that he is holding such ready
money.
Last month at the Internation
Industrial Development Conference in
San Francisco, William L. Graham, a
Kansas oilman, who had started a similar
scheme, Private Enterprises, Inc., in India,
offered to put up 10,000 dollars if two
Australians did the same, for a young
man with a sound business idea. Mr.
Jennings agreed to make one, and Alan
G. F. Marsh, of the Commercial Bank of
Australia, offered to equal it in overdraft.
The American is anxious to increase
the flow of dollars into Australia, to end
the economic stagnation which occurs
when financial institutions lend only to
established firms, and to risk money on
youth, ingenuity and energy.
Easy Money
Last week saw a demonstration in Vic-
toria of how Government men, in the
popular phrase, “get it easy,” a reflection
deepened by the news from Canberra that
Federal public servants would have a five-
day break at Christmas.
Some members did not turn up in the
Victorian Legislative Assembly at all;
since it was Cup-week the Legislative
Council made no pretence about it and
took off the whole damn’ lot.
For most of Wednesday there was
seldom a quorum in the Assembly, and
for form’s sake the division-bells were
rung once when the attendance got down
to seven.
Although the Opposition had
apparently been prepared to spend a day,
or perhaps two, attacking a bill to fund
last year’s £4-million deficit from loan-
money, its opposition abruptly melted ;
the Government dealt with eight other
bills, and second-reading speeches on
minor bills were given—all when the
Government relented and agreed to give
members the next day, Oaks Day at
Flemington, off, too.
Since the public service is never behind
the door when the plums are handed out,
it was announced the next day that half of
them would be given five consecutive
days off at Christmas, and the orphans
who missed-out would be compensated
appropriately over the New Year.
Entertainment Trends
Victorian Treasury, totting-up its enter-
tainment-tax for the last financial year,
estimates cinema-attendances at 34
million, up 662,000; but there will
be a different story next year, according to
private mutterings behind the cinema box-
offices. Some suburban cinemas are taking
as little as a fiver some nights. It’s all due
to TV, the operators say.
Theatre-attendances were up a healthy
23,000 to 1,240,000, despite the tax that
Bolte shamefully levies on them; and
qualifying all the newspaper propaganda
about a decline in racing attendances, they
dropped a mere 135,000 to 2,175,000, due
chiefly to the shift of the population from
where two of the principal clubs are
located, and, of course, a shortage of that
vital necessity with both tote and books,
“the ready.”


Gociety
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS”
TTOW the other half lives in this
glittering metropolis of Sydney! The
nightwatchman tells me that about 6 a.m.
each day he puts outside the-front door
in George Street a little pile of cigarette-
butts swept up from the office. . . to the
immense gratification of five or six
ancient derelicts who, having breakfasted
at the City Mission near the Quay, pounce
upon them for the first smoke of the
day.—“S.”
❖ ❖ *l*
“P.0.M.C.”: In the film-version of
Tolstoy’s epic of Tsarist Russia, “War
and Peace,” Natasha's mother exclaims:
“Moon! What moon? There’s only one
moon, isn’t there?” So maybe there is
something new (including a moon) under
the sun.
❖ ❖ *&•
“Becks”: Fifteen-year-old son expressed
disgust at the news that the dog-in-the-
satellite was a lady: “Now all the women
will be sticking-out their chests and
saying, ‘Our sex got there first.’ ” His
mother didn’t bite, so it was left to me
to assure him that his fears were ground-
less —no woman would ever claim kin-
ship with a female dog.
❖ ❖ *
“Tackline S.”: How silly can you get?
A ship sailed and nobody had noticed
that her only radio-officer was a.w.l.
Absentee reported to the ship’s agent,
who handed in a radio-telegram to advise
the ship’s master that Sparks was ashore.
“Roni”: The presence among the
15 finalists in the Miss Queensland
1957 contest of three pretty young school-
teachers, one of whom won the title,
should go a long way to dispelling the
ancient idea that the schoolmarm hasn’t
anything to teach adults. The new Miss
Queensland, incidentally, on her first
visit to the races evolved a new examina-
tion for horses. She judges a horse’s
chances on its facial expression and the
way it walks.
❖ ❖ *t*
“Halque”: Looks as though the pro-
posed visit to Australia of evangelist
Billy Graham has been postponed by one
of his flock rams, which butted him 50ft.
down the side of a mountain with what
Appears to be a broken knee among other
injuries. Maybe, as some claim for him,
he’s really taught the Devil to pray.
❖ ❖ *X*
“Bicky”: How many things can a
person do at once? I’ve seen a woman
driving a car, powdering her nose, eating,
and talking to a companion on the front
seat beside her. Most women seem to
be able to knit or sew, read, and listen to
the radio and not miss-out on any one
item. Know of a chap who can play two
different tunes on two trumpets at once ;
but my palm goes to a telegraphist I
encountered at a suburban post-office
when I was a telegraph-messenger some
years ago. This nonchalant character held
me spellbound one Saturday morning as
he lounged back and took message after
message in Morse, typed them out,
chewed gum, smoked, studied a sporting-
paper propped up in front of him and
discussed form-prospects for the after-
noon’s races with a fellow-worker—all at
the same time.
*J <£♦ «J»
“Fragmos”: It was certainly an odd
way of manifesting both patriotism and
the banishment of an inferiority complex:
the New Australian exclaimed: “What a
wonderful country this is! I come here
with nothing, and now” —thrusting out
his chest proudly—“l owe the bank six-
thousand pounds!”
♦>
“Sevenelms”: In 1926 S.S. Roto-
mahana was alongside the big hydraulic
crane in the Yarra Basin for refit. Two
apprentices were boring a hole in a
saloon-bathroom deckhead and were
fully extended holding the heavy com-
pressed-air drill up to the job. Just as
it went through, the bit jammed and the
301 b. Ingersoll drill threw sideways and
downwards, clear through the bottom of
the porcelain bath. Aghast, they regarded
the disaster, acutely aware that their total
weekly wages of 28s. might be involved
in a long-range plan of repayment. They
were on the river-side of the ship, with
a scuttle handy, so they sledged the bath
to suitably-sized pieces and dumped the
lot. With their sweat-rags the incrimi-
nating fragments were swept up, and three
days later the Mystery of the Stolen Bath
was on. To the miscreants’ relief, no one
on board realised that the bath had
originally been built-in and couldn’t, any-
way, have come out the door in one
piece.
“My word, that one on Warpath, all right.”
A THOUGHT
It’s not as easy as it sounds
Even in times like these, of plenty ;
They wanted eighty-thousand pounds ;
The public gave them only twenty.
So Sydney’s poor Australian Chair,
Having been taken down a peg
Or three, is born in disrepair
To stumble on upon one leg
Like someone’s verse . . . Well, anyhow,
Although our Literature will
Be foiled of its Professor now,
A Reader may be better still :
So many write it, curse it, bless it,
There’s no one with the time to heed
it —
In short, so many now profess it,
It’s time we paid a man to read it.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


OIGN in a Hall’s Gap (Vic.) cafe: “If
you are unhappy with our service we
would be interested in any attempts you
make to get your money back.”—
“M’Lou.”
* ❖
“Emel”: A Mildura (Vic.) bank-clerk
got into the news'when, for the first time
in the court’s experience, a magistrate
fined him 30s. for negligent and dangerous
riding of—a bicycle. With one hand in
his pocket and the other clasping two
bottles of beer to his chest, he had been
wobbling all over the roadway.
* ❖ *
“Blinkey”: “Doric” (B. 16/10/’57) was
referring to Alf the Guide if he visited
Port Arthur in the ’twenties. He had one
difficulty which wasn’t widely known:
his lapse of memory if anything unusual
upset him. The day I was being shown
around, a child accompanying the party
fell over and bawled lustily. Alf
patiently waited until order was restored,
but seemed unable to resume his
monologue on the inhumanities practised
in the Model Prison, so he went back
to the beginnings a description of the
Commandant’s House, which he had
given 10 minutes previously. He quickly
ran through his lines till he came to the
part where he had been interrupted;
then he banged his stick on the stone-
work for attention and continued the
story of the wickedness of man and the
determination of the Law to make him
wholesome.
❖ *
“Flickers”: Der Todd und das
Madchen.
♦> * •!«
“Zake”: Would it not be possible to
have the Melbourne Cup run twice a
year? Think what such an innovation
would mean in terms of extra work for
champagne and pure-silk-shirt concerns
because of greater bookies’ profits, to say
nothing of the saving in the wear-and-
tear on industries in the Cabbage State
which the extra holiday would entail.
You’ll excuse me now? I’m just going to
collect, having drawn Straight Draw in
the office sweep, which makes it the third
year out of four that I’ve cleaned-up,
including one when I staked the missus
and daughter and landed the first three
places.
“You ought to have seen the scream of a hat she tried to sell me.”
“Roger Mike”: Our bookie-ci/m-taxi-
driver was always on for a bet. Even
when driving the women to hospital he
was known to answer the expectant
father’s query as to the fare with a
sporting “Five-bob if it’s a girl; nothing
if it’s a boy.”
❖ ❖ *X*
“0.W.W.”: Espresso-bars are finding
customers can’t afford coffee (Is. 3d. to
2s. a cup) and their high-priced eats as
well. One in Wellington (N.Z.) displays
a large notice: “Customers must not
bring fish-and-chips to eat on these
premises.”
❖ ❖
“Wingtip”: One C.O. finds that the
weekly inspection of his rather spread-out
Air Force station takes up most of
Friday. His Staff Officer, Radio, is said to
be designing a television-receiver for
station headquarters. A camera will then
do the hard work of touring the sections,
while the Old Man sits back at his desk.
Big Brother wilt be watching.
❖ *> ❖
“Bo”: The bottle of prescribed jalap
had cut me back 10s. 3d., which mightn’t
have seemed so bad had the stuff proved
to be anything more effective than a
drink of water in clearing my bronchial
tubes. A friend who also is a chemist
spilled the beans: total cost of the
ingredients would be well under three-
bob. Now I know why it has become
traditional for all prescribing chemists
to raise their hats in deep respect
whenever they pass a water-tap.
♦l* *z*
“Wusslean”: Results of a survey by a
clothing-industry research-panel, reveal-
ing that many men let their womenfolk
choose for them, have got the industry’s
leaders very worried. The president of
the Clothing Industries Council announced
gravely:
This is an abnormal situation historically
which may prove we are turning into a wife-
dominated society which can sap the leader-
ship qualities and manliness of the male.
Maybe that’s what’s wrong with our
leaders. Did Cassar’s wife choose his
toga? No; she was above suspicion.
Did Josephine advise Napoleon on his
greatcoat, or the Duke of Wellington let
his wife design his boots? And what did
Pitt say when his wife was trying to
influence him into a new top-hat?—“l
think I could do with one of Bellamy’s
pork-pies! ”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Sevenelms”: American telephone-
companies (B. 30/10/’57) are wooing their
clients with multi-hued hand-sets, but one
section of their customers they are
gunning for: the “call-chisellers” whose
illicit ingenuities cost thousands of
dollars. Bad enough are husband com-
muters who without coins use coin-
operated phones to send wifey at home
a certain number of rings that can be
“BRIGALOW”
in book-form
“Brigalow,” the story by R. S.
Porteous of the Western Queensland
cattle-country that was so popular as
a serial in The Bulletin last year,
is now available in book-form from
Angus and Robertson and other
booksellers. Price 17s. (postage lOd.)


translated as “Heat up the chow, I’m on
the 5.15,” or “I’ve got theatre-tickets.
.Meet you at the depot, 7.30.” Some
wives even lift the receiver and in a one-
way charge-free monologue tell hubby
what groceries to bring home. But for
real villainy take the sales-representative
of a New York frock-factory who from
San Francisco phones New York office
with a personal call to Leon Goldwasser
—which seems innocent enough, but there
never was a Leon G. This is code for
“Frisco Furbelows will buy six gross of
No. 84 if immediate delivery.” When the
smart New York-office switch-girl (with
the boss alongside) after a reasonable
hesitation replies to the San Francisco
trunk-line operator, “Sorry, Mr. Gold-
wasser is out to lunch until 2.15,” that
means “Half immediate half fifteen days
is our best.” The whole shenanigan is a
non-charge “uncompleted call,” and the
frock company has a 2500-miles phone-
call for free.
•£♦
“Kate”: Overheard two old men
discussing their Aged Men’s Retreat.
“Oh, there’s too many rules there
altogether! That frizzy-haired old fowl
nearly hit the roof the day.l spat on the
floor! ”
“Mac Hoots”: Everybody knows the
Little Golden Books for children. One,
a “giant,” is a sort of pictorial geography
of the world and has a priceless chapter
about Australia’s “bushmen” who kill
kangaroos with boomerangs and nulla-
nullas and nightly hold corroborees.
* * *
“Jason”: With the disappearance of
some two-dozen bottles of beer from the
wardroom stocks, the ship was being
thoroughly searched. We of X-turret’s
crew were standing to attention, not
looking one bit smug, I swear, when
the search-party entered, led by the
Gunnery Officer. After obvious pre-
liminaries he suddenly yanked the breech
of the gun open and the beautiful bottles
slid swiftly and gracefully down the
barrel to the deck. Oh, the taste of bitter
gall as we cleaned-up the mess!
♦*+
“Doynest”: Another familiar Mel-
bourne hotel is being demolished—the
113-year-old Doncaster Inn, in what used
to be Melbourne’s prettiest orchard-
country, some eight or nine miles from
the G.P.O. Doncaster was the terminus
of Australia’s first electric-tram service,
which for a year or so used to convey
sightseers from Box Hill railway-station,
a couple of miles away, to the orchards
and the Inn.
“Observer”: As to Dorothy Parker's
dictum (B. 30/10/’57), I’m told that
women opticians now exhibit such
artistic legends to their clients as: “Girls
who are spectacled Often get nectacled ”
There is also a story of an executive who
altered the notice “Enter without knock-
ing” to “Enter without necking,” because
of the attractiveness of his office staff.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Spinifex”: Re old Bulletin con-
tributors (“Kate,” B. 30/10/’57): it seems
Will Ogilvie and Kathleen
Dalziel have a mortgage on
first and second positions,
but for what the racing-
commentators call the minor
placing I think I may be in
the running. Stories and
verse perpetrated by me
appeared over the pen-name
“Spinifex” in 1903, and a
short story, “Our Sydney
Trip,” was in the Christmas
number of either 1902 or
1903. I believe I first made
the grade in 1902, but of this
I can’t be quite sure.
“Jobber”: If “Kate” and
Kathleen Dalziel are dealing
only with jinglers of rhymes
(B. 30/10/’57) when placing
the oldest Bulletin contri-
butor I am not in the race,
but if paragraphists are
included then I have them
licked by at least three years.
In an issue of 1897 there
appeared a full-page draw-
ing by Alf Vincent with the
caption “Any chance of a
feed here, boss?” the
speaker being a swagman.
Nothing wrong with that,
of course, but on the
veranda of the hut was a
saddle put down in a way
one would never see on a
station. I wrote and drew
attention to the dreadful
mistake; The Bulletin
printed the par.—and I was
just 14. I still get a kick
when a par. appears under
my pen-name ; as Bill Fitz
Henry said, “Once you lose
that kick, Jobber, you’ve done your dash.”
❖ +:♦ *
“Doric”: He had not been long out
from England. “I see by the paper that
the flies were bad at your beach yester-
day,” he commented. “Flies?” I said,
“I didn’t notice any.” He handed me the
newspaper—it reported a plague of blue-
bottles on Sydney beaches!
<£♦ *;♦
“Narumee”: After all, it’s spring, I
thought, observing the boy-and-girl
goodnighting by our gate at midnight.
Murmurs continued for some time before
slow footsteps signified their departure.
But —was it love? Next morning, by the
gate, I found a cigarette-packet, fifteen
lolly-papers, orange-peel, four cigarette-
stubs and, on the gatepost, a chunk of
chewing-gum!
SEA-HORSE SENSE
“A group of American marine-scientists are
endeavoring to establish what degree of intelli-
gence is possessed by the sea-horse.”
He might be as dumb as a zany,
Or turn out to be rather brainy,
This fish with a long mokelike pan.
He will probably know his own mother,
And can tell one sea-horse from another,
Which is more than the scientists can.
Though at counting-up dough
He’d be well off his course,
Yet he could be a dandy
At figures. He’d know
If a lady sea-horse
Was too fat or too bandy !
They could give him the ten-dollcir
question:
When he suffers acute indigestion,
Do his burps leave a visible trail ?
And when fishermen’s flies he is sighting,
Instead of imprudently biting,
Does he brush ’em away with his tail?
And these two he must face :
Is his missus or he
The real family-ruler ?
Taking part in a race
At top pace—would he be
Getting hotter or cooler ?
They might test him out if he’s thinking
Of giving up day-and-night drinking,
Should it threaten to break up his
home;
And yet, if such quest he’s disdaining,
A dignified silence maintaining,
They could deem him dull in the dome.
Well, if I were asked I
{Though it’s none of my biz)
Would advise, him this way :
Be a shrewdhead, reply
To all probing and quiz
With a straight, simple “Neigh !”
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


Reply to the Honorable
New York, October 24.
Dear Editor;
1 would never have thought it would
be Gavin Casey who gave me a chance
to write a postscript to my “End” (B.
16/10/’57). In the tradition of the obit,
it was faultless —it gave the deceased a
good hearing and contributed no little to
legend. Living man can ask no more.
But what the hell's the Old Maestro
doing down there in the Morgue?
To tell the truth 1 hadn't realised how
much of an effective lifetime I’d spent in
battle against the Australian editor until
J read his piece, and even now l can't help
thinking that the trumpets here sound
louder than the cannon. But with this
and some other reservations I agree
wholeheartedly with Gavin ; I agree with
him most particularly on the point that
he and I have never agreed upon anything
important except that we both like beer
and have a grudging respect for one
another.
The other reservations concern, firstly,
the American editor. When I left Aus-
tralia I allowed myself a month for
meeting American editors in New York
and nearby metropoli; I’ve been here
four months now and met three more this
week; and on account of Australian
commitments I’ve severely curtailed the
rest of an American tour, postponing
those plans to a date early, 1 hope, in
1959. So I feel I’m entitled to talk on
the breed.
My meeting with the “Saturday Evening
Post’s” Ben Hibbs did not, as Gavin fore-
cast, develop into a demand for personal
satisfaction upon the body of the editor
who subbed my stuff ; and for this there
were at least two good reasons.
The first was that the material was
subbed intelligently ; in other words it was
unchanged. The American editor is not
a frustrated writer; his function is separ-
ate and distinct; and he seldom (if ever)
seeks to impose his personality upon the
material he accepts. I am reminded here
of an Australian editor who, having
requested and received a piece on a
Sydney personality, approved and printed
it; but, believing that the opening was a
little too direct, prefaced it with a sentence
of his own which I will be able to quote
until my dying day: “Let me commence
my story about... .with a few words
which spring to mind.” He had the grace to
leave my name off the opus, but acknow-
ledged my authorship in a subsequent
issue. He has never seen another word
from my typewriter, and never will.
Still another Sydney editor asked me to
ghost-write an opinion for a London
editor who was very prominent indeed.
The London editor subjected himself to
the ordeal, demanding only that his
opinions on a particular topical question
be not printed. The matter, in fact, was
sub judice in England. The Sydney
editor, never having met the man in his
life, added his ghost-personality to mine
and introduced the piece (under the other
man’s name) with some of his own
opinions on the forbidden topic. It was
the Union Club, where the London
editor was staying, that rocked a little on
its foundations that morning.
Of course, my name wasn't connected
publicly with that, either; 1 mention it
solely to indicate that I’ve seen reason
for fighting with editors ; the reason has
always been a matter of integrity ; and
1 believe integrity to be the only sine qua
BEN HIBBS, editor of “The Saturday
Evening Post” since 1940. Born in
Fontana, Kansas, in 1901, he graduated
from the University of Kansas, and later
became editor of “The Country Gentle-
man,” another publication of the Curtis
Publishing Company, Philadelphia. In
the picture he is shown at work, not at
lunch.
— U.S. Information Service photo.
non of art. I should agree with Gavin
here again and mention that I haven’t
yet fought with the editor of The
Bulletin ; but then I haven’t tried to sell
him a piece on, say, the White Australia
policy, with which I disagree.
The second reason for not fighting
with Ben Hibbs, forgetting, for the
moment, his extremely likeable person-,
ality, was that I met him over a lunch,
an extremely good lunch which consisted
for me of cocktails, a madrilene as deli-
cate as the perfect Philadelphia day, soft-
shell crabs, a good wine, and apple-pie
of a quality that only the Philadelphia
Town and Country Club has ever been
able to achieve—both the Club and myself
are experts on apple-pie.
I think Gavin would agree that I am
not one who is to be bought; but I can’t
help noting that no Australian editor has
ever treated me to a lunch, while in four
months perhaps twenty American editors
have bought me forty lunches. And
believe me, I appreciate the thought. It
seems to follow that the American editor
believes the writer to be worthy of a little
consideration. I know that The Bulletin
likes to see every one of its writers with
a chicken in the pot; but the American
ideal runs more to breast of peacock or
maybe caviare. Fm in favor.
But leave lunch out of it. I’ve had
Australian editors put the bite on me for
ten-bob, which, as often as not, I didn’t
see again. I’ve had Australian editors
talk to me in ways of which their mothers
would not have approved—l’d quote the
words ; but it has been a good while since
Brian Penton died, and the others were
unimportant. I’ve had Australian
editors request me for particular stories,
and then not use them. I’ve had them use
the stories and then hold up payment
for six months. I’ve had them steal
stories outright; I’ve had English and
Yugoslavian editors do this, too ; and
the Englishman was pretty brazen about
it; but even he didn’t tell me that the
content came from the well of
public knowledge and was there-
fore public property, as the editorial
representative of a Sydney insurance
company once did. Damn it all, it came
from my fishing experience and I
learned it the hard way ; not that that
matters.
I’m still keeping The Bulletin out of
this. The Bulletin has never put the
bite on me for ten-bob ; and as a matter
of fact, one day when I was stranded in
Perth I put the bite on The Bulletin for
a quarter-century ; and 1 paid it back in
a fortnight.
Gavin knows all this. He saw a good
deal of it happen ; but he knows the
American scene, too, and he should be
able to appreciate the difference. I think
he's a little out of line, too, in saying that
the “Saturday Evening Post” doesn’t like
New Zealand and Australian stories;
almost half the number they’ve bought
from me have that setting, as opposed to
a New Guinea one. But I’ve been con-
centrating on New Guinea, for a reason
that a book which should hit Australia
soon will probably demonstrate.
And I don’t agree that the “Post”
stories are below the standard of those
I’ve had in The Bulletin —in fact, at the
risk of incurring editorial displeasure I’ll
maintain that The Bulletin would have
accepted any of them. Jumped at them,
if I can get away with the expression.
That’s all about that. I’d like to assure
you that Gavin is well and favorably
remembered in New York. Only the
other day (was it in the Algonquin?—or
the Mayan Room?) I was listening to a
detailed account of his reactions when,
sailing from New York to London, he
found himself described on the passenger-
list as The Honorable Gavin Casey. On
that occasion he added something, I feel
sure, to the Australian legend in New
York.
Well, there it is. I fight with editors ;
Gavin fights with Honorables and up. I
suppose he has his reasons, and I have
mine.—Yours respectfully,
OLAF RUHEN.


POLITICAL POINTS
What with lady-dogs in Sputniks and
Ladies in the Lords to look
as if men and dogs have had their day.
• •
In the Ebasco report mention was
made that some steam-locomotives in
service in New South Wales were 76
years old; the average age of the whole
fleet was 42 years. Much of Queens-,
land’s rolling-stock is also in the senior-
citizen age-group. Transport Minister
Chalk told Queensland Parliament last
v/eek that seven carriages used on the
Brisbane suburban lines were over 70.
Other statistics: 24 have had their
sixtieth birthday; 45 have passed the
half-century; 154 are over 40 and 234
are youngsters in their thirties. Still,
what’s all the fuss about? The Queen’s
State carriage is older than any of ’em,
and it still does for her and the Duke.
_• •
Launched with an objective of £BO,OOO,
tjie Chair of Australian Literature Fund
looks like closing with a little over
£20,000 in hand, as it has “reached a
stage where the proportion of expenses to
income is too high to warrant its con-
tinuing.” The obvious course now is
start with a stool of australian literature
and work up.
• •
Ewen Mackinnon, Liberal M.H.R. for
Corangamite (Vic.), urged the abolition
of payroll-tax when the bill raising the
exemption level was being debated.
McMahon, Minister for Primary Industry,
and Treasurer Fadden stood shoulder-to-
shoulder in defending the impost. They
declared that estimates of its inflationary
effect on costs had been greatly exagger-
ated. Fadden also claimed that if the
Federal Government abolished it the
States would immediately move into the
field. Nothing either Minister said altered
the fact that payroll-tax is a bad tax.
• •
U.S. Communications Commission is
said to suspect that “invisible” advertising
is being used on TV ; it consists of inter-
mittent split-second flashes too short to
be recorded by the eye but which can
impress the viewer’s subconscious mind
by “subliminal perception.” The commis-
sion fears, for example, that in this way
teenagers might be induced to “Drink
More Beer” without being aware that
they had been influenced in any way. It
shouldn’t be long now before someone
uses the excuse in an attempt to toss a
drunk or under-the-influence charge.
Damage by fire to the Vickers-Vimy
aircraft in which Ross and Keith Smith
made the first England-Australia flight
in 1919 is a sad blow. The plane was
being transported by road from the Aus-
tralian War Museum in Canberra to
Adelaide, where it was to be given a per-
manent home at Edinburgh airport. The
upper wing was completely destroyed;
the two lower outer wings burned ; one
engine nacelle lost and two propellers
burned. Experts say the plane can be
“fully restored” and no doubt they’ll do
a good job with it and Adelaide will have
its memorial. But it won't be quite the
same as having the original GEAOU
intact.
Kingsford Smith's Southern Cross
had better luck on its road-trip to Bris-
bane, where it is to fulfil a similar role
to the Vickers-Vimy in Adelaide.
• •
Criticised for having operated a pocket-
radio in the Queensland Assembly during
the running of the Melbourne Cup,
ex-Premier Gair said he had caused no
disturbance and that if someone else had
been the offender probably nothing would
have been said about it. He denied that
the radio could be heard in the press-
gallery, but his denial brought a letter of
protest from the gallery committee to the
Speaker. Gair’s statement that if he had
really been interested in the Melbourne
Cup he would have gone outside the
Chamber to listen to it, as many other
members did, quite misses the point. The
offence against the dignity and decorum
of Parliament would have been just as
great if he had tuned-in to rock-’n’-roll
or a lecture on newts.
Still, Gair’s slip -is quite understandable.
During the dying days of the last Parlia-
ment dignity and decorum were so often
absent from the Chamber that he can be
excused for thinking they had gone
for ever.-
• •
Davis Hughes, C.P. member for
Armidale in the N. S. Wales Assembly, has
challenged the Cahill Government to
reconsider its “amazing decision” that
Parents and Citzens’ Associations should
not be permitted to do repair or mainten-
ance work to school premises. This
decision was announced when the Opera-
tive Painters’ Union objected to a parents’
working-bee painting a suburban school
during the September holidays.
The decision was economically and
morally unsound. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment is for ever complaining that it hasn’t
enough funds to do all the painting and
maintenance required, yet because of
trade-union pressure it refuses to allow
parents to do the work as a labor of
love.
The principle seems to be that it is
wrong to perform any service for nothing,
because by so doing you rob someone of
the wages he might have got for doing it,
The fact that there is no money to pay
for the job, which therefore won’t be
done at all, apparently makes no
difference.
If this line of reasoning becomes
universally accepted all charity work must
cease until there is sufficient money to
pay someone full wages for doing it.
What a philosophy!
• •
One result of Sputnikitis has been an
outside crop of flying-saucer stories.
They’ve been reported everywhere, and
in all shapes and sizes, most favored
form being egg-shaped or cigar-shaped.
Some have left fainting negroes and
weeping schoolboys to testify to their
existence; others have left oil-slicks,
wheel-tracks or egg-shaped depressions.
So far none has left a smell of sulphur,
but probably that’ll come. Veteran
trickster the planet Venus seems to be to
blame for most of the sightings ; vivid
imagination for the rest. One much-
vouched-for Queensland report came,
very appropriately, from Deception Bay.
• •
“Becks”: After trying for five weeks
to find themselves a Premier, the French
deputies chose 38-year-old Felix Gaillard,
the youngest man ever to hold the office.
They must surely have been influenced
by his name. “Felix,” of course, is
“happy,” and for “gaillard” my French
dictionary gives “gay, joyous, jovial,
merry, sprightly, gallant, fresh, healthy,
hearty, jolly, cool, groggy, fi_e.” In the
current gloomy state of French politics
what deputy could reject the chance of
having a Premier whose name gave such
promise? And, although the dictionary
is silent on the subject, I seem to recall
somewhere back in the time of the
Norman kings a Chateau Gaillard, which
my old history teacher rendered as
“Saucy Castle.” France could do with
a saucy Premier at the moment.
• •
“A.U.A.”: Reference to the two Play-
ford Premiers (B. 6/11/ ’57) brings the
reflection that political sense has charac-
terised both grandfather and grandson.
The 1890 Melbourne Convention gave
Alfred Deakin the opportunity to describe
the first Tom Playford
As a huge giant, an ex-market-gardener,
known as “Honest Tom Playford,” whose
force of character, and general disposition,
had pushed him to the front. Carefully
. equipped by his bosom-friend Kingston with
the necessary information as to Constitu-
tion-making, Playford’s own strong good
sense and rugged grasp of affairs enabled
him to acquit himself with credit.
This Playford was twice S.A. Premier,
besides holding office in other S.A. Gov-
ernments. Later he was one of the first
Senators from S.A. and was Defence
Minister 1905-07, “Young” Tom
Playford has just begun his twentieth
year as Premier.
• •
In volume of imports and exports the
trade of the port of Newcastle exceeded
that of Sydney in the year ended June
30, 1957. Total tonnages handled at the
two ports were: Newcastle, 8,139,090 ;
Sydney, 8,035,877. Port Kembla’s inward
and outward cargoes totalled 3,636,245
tons.


The mystification of the Mt. Stromlo
astronomers who saw a “pink thing”
moving across the western sky at about
3 a.m. on Friday was increased when it
was found that Dr. Evatt was in bed at
the time.
• •
Eisenhower’s broadcast was designed
to reassure the American public, which
had been shaken by the news of Russia's
Sputnik successes, but his trump-card—•
the nose-cap of a rocket which had been
retrieved after being fired several hundred
miles into space—was rather a flop. What
was really called for was something
spectacular. Now, if Ike had been able
to report that a Jupiter rocket had
caught Sputnik II and rescued the dog,
that would have been news!
• •
Sir Arthur Warner, Victorian Minister
for Transport, gets the booby-prize this
week for his claim at the Australian
Association of National Advertisers’ con-
vention that Australia had the best TV
programmes in the world.
• •
Back from South-east Asia, which he
visited after attending the U.N. General
Assembly in New York, External Atfars
Minister Casey said he had found Aus-
tralia’s name popular in that area. He
deplored the Government-inspired
demonstrations in Indonesia and said they
were certainly organised and were not
spontaneous.
Casey said the Sputniks - had greatly
impressed Asians, probably beyond their
actual importance, because they were
dramatic and spectacular. His own
opinion was that the satellites showed
that Russia was ahead in one field, but
“the United States is well ahead of
Russia in several other fields of offensive
potential which, whilst not so dramatic,
are very, very important.”
Let’s hope Casey has seen something
to justify that remark.
Of Russia and the cold war, Casey said
that at U.N. the Soviet attitude was colder
and more uncompromising than a year
ago. The tone of Gromyko’s speeches
“was aggressive and referred very closely
to the Russian attitude of five years ago.”
• •
J. H. Mann, A.L.P. member for
Brisbane and former Speaker of the
Queensland Parliament, asked Premier
Nicklin to declare the Rockhampton seat
void on the grounds that the sitting
member, H. R. Gardner (Q.L.P.), had
violated sections of the Constitution Act
precluding a member from having a
beneficial interest in a contract with the
public service. It is alleged that Gardner
is the proprietor of a motor firm which
has had considerable dealings with Main
Roads Department in the last three years.
Nicklin took no action, but told Mann
that it was open to him to test Gardner’s
position in the Supreme Court.
Mann said later outside Parliament that
Nicklin had shirked his duty and that
the A.L.P. would seek legal advice and
would approach the Supreme Court if
counsel recommended it.
• •
Admitting that Russia was ahead of
America in the missile field “in some
respects” U.S. Secretary of State Foster
Dulles said he was confident his country
could catch up. Dulles has sometimes
been unkindly described as “America’s
biggest misguided missile,” but it’s to be
hoped he’s on the right beam this time.
• •
There’s on doubt about the Victorian
Ministry’s determination to let the Reds
get away with nothing. On the day the
news of the second Russian Sputnik was
announced, Deputy Premier Rvlah pro-
claimed, for all the world to hear, that a
new bill would be introduced forthwith
encouraging courts to impose heavy
penalties on people who ill-treated
animals and abandoned pets to their fate.
• •
New Zealand is to have a general elec-
tion on November 30, when 259 candi-
dates will contest 80 seats. The National
party, which has been in office since 1949,
is contesting every seat, as are the Labor
and Social Credit parties. The Com-
munists are running five candidates ; the
rest are various brands of Independents.
At the 1954 election the aggregate votes
of the National and Labor parties were
very even —434,619 and 437,843 respec-
tively—and 25 seats were won on a
minority vote through the intrusion for
the first time of a Social Credit party,
which polled 112,488 votes without
winning a seat. The National party won
16 of these seats and Labor 9. However,
on the basis of the 1951 figures, it
appeared that the Social Crediters drew
more support from former National
supporters than from Labor.
Present state of parties in the New
Zealand Parliament is National, 45;
Labor, 35.
• •
A 2|-day course for Premiers at Mt.
Macedon (Vic.) civil-defence school was
very nicely timed, like the visits to port
of the Navy. At the school were Bolte
(Vic.), Cosgrove (Tas.), Hawke (W.A.),
Playford (S.A.), Heffron (N.S.W. deputy)
and Pizzey (Queensland, deputising), and
they were all missing on the first Tuesday
in November, studying,
apparently, the form-
sheets.
• •
Several N.S.W. Labor
M.H.R.s found they had
opposition for endorse-
ment when nominations
for endorsement closed on
Friday. Strangely enough,
most of them are men who
are known not to be
admirers of Dr. Evatt.
They include Fred Daly
(Grayndler), C. A. Morgan
(Reid) and Dan Minogue
(West Sydney). The Doc.
himself is being opposed
for the Flunter seat by
C. T. Wheatley; two
aldermen Lord Mayor
C. K. Jones and Alderman
W. A. Wade —are contest-
ing the Newcastle nomina-
tion, surrendered by Dave
Watkins, and there are
three triers for Evatt's
deserted Barton.
Including Senators
Amour, Arnold and Grant
there are 16 aspirants for
the Senate nominations.
Among them are Dr. J. W.
Burton, the Doc.’s former
protege (or tutor), and
J. P. Ormonde, vice-
president of the A.L.P. It
looks as though one or more of the
present team may be on the way out.
Preselection ballots for both Houses will
be held on December 7.
• •
Another shipowner—the purchaser of
the former B.H.P. vessel Iron Warrior,
now renamed Zeus —has paid the Sea-
men’s Union money-for-jam in order to
avoid having the ship held up indefinitely
by a lawless black ban. The payment of
£3500 is described as an indemnity for
allowing Filipinos to deliver the vessel to
Manila ; it is said to represent wages at
£125 a head, which each of a crew of 28
Australian seamen would have earned
had they delivered the ship. There is no
law compelling the engagement of an
Australian crew for such a trip; the
payment is purely the fruits of standover
tactics.


PERSONAL ITEMS
“Sabzi Mandi”: Air-Marshal Sir
Anthony Paxton, whose passing has been
noted in The Bulletin, was one of the
select band of Australians who won fame
in the R.A.F. He had a colorful career
before he joined the Air Force, including
a period ranching at Sonora, which gave
him a repertoire of boisterous, authentic
campfire songs, which he accompanied on
the ukulele. Perhaps he will be best
remembered by most Australians as the
senior R.A.F. officer in Canada with the
Empire Training Scheme. There, we
junior officers were tremendously
impressed by his sincerity, his lack of
“side,” his certain touch in leadership, and
his shunning of any sort of “talking-
down” to those serving under him. Mak-
ing him, in all, that very rare specimen, a
popular and efficient senior officer.
• •
That good friend of Australian writing
Dr. E. Morris Miller passed through
Sydney this week on his way back to
Tasmania after visiting Canberra for a
meeting of the Humanities Research
Council. Professor of Psychology and
Philosophy at the Tasmanian University
from 1922 to 1952, Professor Emeritus
since 1952, he is perhaps best known to
Bulletin readers as the author of Aus-
tralian Literature from its Beginnings to
1935.
• •
Met in Perth, 26-year-old Kees Byvark,
a Dutch industrial chemist who hopes to
work at his profession in Australia. Leav-
ing Amsterdam on a pushbike in June,
1956, h'e pedalled across Europe, but had
to scrap the bike when it was wrecked by
a taxi in Istanbul. He then hitch-hiked
through Asia, was arrested twice in
Jordan, went through Afghanistan with a
camel caravan, slogged through Pakistan
and India, where he gave lectures in
schools, then had a look at the Philippines
and Japan. In Japan his luck changed. A
Jap factory made him a present of a
brand-new motor-scooter on which he
shot through S.-E. Asia, before coming to
Fremantle by sea.
• •
John Stanley Haddin, who has
succeeded H. W. Weathersbee (B.
6/11/ as chairman of Horlicks Pty.,
Ltd., is also a director of Daniel Scott
Industries, Ltd. (Melbourne), chairman of
Richard Wildridge and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
dairy engineers, and a director of
Wilac Engineering Pty., Ltd., refrigerator
engineers. For over 20 years he was a
director of the Dairy Farmers Co-
operative Milk Company (of which his
father was a founder), and under his
management Camden Park Estate became,
in the words of the leader of a U.K.
farmers’ delegation, “the best dairying
set-up in the Southern Hemisphere.”
When he retired from there, in 1947,
it was noted in The Bulletin that
he planned to concentrate on his
properties and “see something of Aus-
tralia.” He no longer has the holdings
mentioned in that particular paragraph
(he has a couple of others, at Nowra,
N.S.W.) and the fruit of his sightseeing
was a series of thought-provoking articles
on the Northern Territory. He still holds
strong views on what should be done to
develop the North, and mentions approv-
ingly newspaper-articles written by W. C.
Wentworth some time back. He considers
the matter of vital importance—if we
don’t develop it, someone will. Nowa-
days he does quite a bit of travelling—
J. S. HADDIN
Horlicks are developing a big export-
trade with Asiatic countries —and so has
better - than - average opportunities of
observing world trends. Early in War I
he travelled to England to join King
Edward’s Horse, in which composite
colonial regiment he served until 1919 ;
after the war, he recalls, the shipping-
company refunded his passage-money.
• •
Lieut.-General Alwyn Ragnar Garrett,
C.8.E., who has been appointed Chief of
the General Staff from March 22 next, is
57, was educated at Guildford Grammar
(W.A.) and at Duntroon, and was commis-
sioned in 1923. He served in India with
the Queen’s Bays Cavalry Regiment,
graduated from the Staff College,
Camberley, in 1939, and was 18th Bde.
Brigade Major in England in 1940. He
became C.O. of the 2/31 Bn., remained in
England to study armored-vehicle fighting,
and represented Corps with the British
Army in the Middle East as senior staff-
officer and liaison-officer. He served in
Greece, was B.G.S. under Lieut.-General
Savige in Bougainville from the time the
Australians took over until the Japanese
surrender, and was in command at Wewak
from November, 1945, to February, 1946.
In between, he had studied armored
formations in England and training and
organisation in the U.S.A., and on his
return to Australia had been appointed,
successively, G.5.0.l Ist Australian
Armored Division and Director of
Armored Fighting Vehicles Directorate.
Since the war, appointments he has held
include Commandant of the Australian
Staff College, Brigadier in Charge of
Administration, Headquarters, 8.C.0.F.,
Japan, G.O.C. Western Command,
Deputy Chief of the General Staff, and
G.O.C. Southern Command.
“Symonym”: Alwyn Ragnar Garrett's
friends call him by his second name. Like
Red Robbie, he is a graduate from the
Light Horse, still feels nostalgic about
them, but admits they are now as unprofit-
able in the Army as he finds them at
Flemington.
A forthright fellow, his contemporaries
feel at home with him, and consider him
a cool and efficient, rather than a
brilliant, officer. In England with the
18th Brigade in the early part of War 11,
he had a responsible job from the start.
The brigade actually became the War
Office reserve because it was the only
brigade complete in manpower in Britain
at that time.
• •
Almost as soon as he arrived in
Australia on a senior Fulbright Fellow-
ship T. A. Geissman, Professor of
Chemistry at the University of California,
was made an honorary Fellow of the
Royal Australian Chemical Institute ; he
also happens to be the institute’s first
honorary Fellow. A world authority on the
chemistry of plant constituents, Professor
Geissman, who is in his middle forties,
will work for nine months with the
C.SJ.R.O. Division of Industrial
Chemistry.
• •
R. G. Baillieu, of Thorpdale (Vic.), and
"R. F, Thomas, of Perth (Tas.), have been
awarded Nuffield Foundation farming
scholarships—these are offered each year,
on a rotational State basis, to selected
Australian farmers to enable them to
spend about six months in the U.K.,
inspecting just about everything of agricul-
tural interest. Baillieu runs a property of
177 acres, mostly dairying ; he was in
R.A.A.F. air-crew during the war.
Thomas, a soldier-settler (ex-A.1.F.), runs
Corriedale§ on his highly-improved 765
acres.
• •
“Uramao”: After eight years ruling
New Zealand’s Parliamentary Assembly
with dignity, equanimity and firmness —
frequently the latter quality was necessary
—Sir Matthew Oram will leave the
Speaker’s chair in the new year. A native
of Christchurch (born 73 years ago),
educated at Wellington College, where he
graduated M.A. and LL.B., he hung out


his shingle in Palmerston North in 1913.
He has represented Manawatu since 1943,
became Speaker in Sid Holland’s Govern-
ment when it ejected Labor in 1949, and
was knighted in 1952. Still full of pep, Sir
TVlatthew hopes to spend some of his
leisure in travel and devote more time to
the Air League, of which he is N.Z.
president.
• •
“M.G.S.”: Most, if not all, provincial
art-prizes in Victoria and bordering terri-
tory go to Melbourne artists, but one
Melbourne painter has established a pre-
cedent by refusing to accept a prize when
it is offered to him. C. Dudley Wood, of
Canterbury, has turned-down a forty-
guinea award from this year’s Albury Art
Society’s annual exhibition, not on any
highfalutin grounds, but because he had
valued it on the catalogue at eighty-
guineas: a condition of the prize is that
the painting becomes the property of the
Albury City Council. The painting,
“Cattlemen of the Bogong High Plains,”
would be cheap at forty.
• •
Launcelot Owen, who is pretty widely
known as “Taffy,” has been contributing
to The Bulletin on various subjects, but
particularly oh oil-exploration, for some
time now, and has lately been giving
A.B.C. talks on his speciality. He is, of
course, Welsh; studied under Professor
W. W. Watts at the Imperial College of
Science and Technology, London, took his
A.R.S.M. in Geology and Technology of
Oil after graduating in chemistry ; then,
after two years in the field in South
America, took his D.I.C. for geological
research. He’s done geological explora-
tion in most of the uncivilised parts of
the world, was a tunnelling-officer in
War I, and after the Somme line was
blown-up, was put on to delousing
German booby-traps. Finished that war
as a captain, with M.C. and a “mention,”
and was caught up by War II in Papua.
Started War II as a lieutenant, finished as
a major and was chiefly concerned, again,
“TAFFY” OWEN
with booby-traps, about which he has a
vast and diabolical knowledge. He’s
written on the subject for The Bulletin
—also on wines, and the correct trans-
literation of Arabic —and he claims that
the Kokoda Trail should have been
planted with booby-traps. On first living
among Australians, he says, he found it
hard to understand why he was called a
“Pommy”—he learned English as a
foreign language at the age of six, and
tends to think in Spanish. Be that as it
may, he expresses himself adequately and
without fear or favor: “I’ve had the
unfortunate habit of telling the truth in
the oil game, which doesn’t always make
for popularity,” is his own summing-up.
• •
“X.P.”: David B. Rosenthal, who
succeeds H. Maxwell James as director
of t.b.-prevention measures and care in
Victoria, was born at Ballarat in 1902,
went to the Humffray Street school,
then to Melbourne High and Queen’s
College, Melbourne University. He
graduated M. 8., B.S. in 1925, added
M.D. two years later, and was
resident at the old Melbourne for a
year and at the Victorian Eye and Ear
Hospital for another year. Went to New
Guinea as a ship’s doctor, put in a couple
of years at the Austin Hospital, Heidel-
berg, and the Caulfield Convalescent Hos-
pital, and after a short period in private
practice in Victoria and South Australia
went to London, where he worked at a
number of hospitals, including the Bromp-
ton Chest Hospital, and qualified
M.R.C.P. Back in Victoria, he took
charge of Gresswell Sanatorium in April,
1933, and was superintendent there for
over 20 years, during which time he
brought to the State’s tuberculosis service
all sorts of novel ideas for the welfare of
patients—social clubs run by the patients
themselves, occupational therapy and the
like. In 1948 the State Government sent
him to the U.K. and Europe to make a
survey of the treatment of tuberculosis,
in 1950 he was appointed t.b. deputy-
director in charge of sanatoria, and in
1953 he went away again to make a survey
for the Government, to the U.K. and
U.S.A. and Canada. Apart from his
work, and something which comes very
close to it, the Ex-Patients Association,
which he sponsored from its beginnings
in 1938, he’s interested in photography,
music and stamps.
• •
Mr. Justice F. H. Gallagher, who con-
stitutes the Coal Industry Tribunal, is also
to be appointed a presidential member of
the Commonwealth Conciliation and
Arbitration Commission.
• •
Ken Luke (herewith) is well known in
Victoria for a number of reasons—he’s
a breeder of stud cattle and sheep, presi-
dent of the Victorian Football League,
occupies prominent and, frequently,
official positions in cricket, motor-
cycling, yachting, tennis, bowls, golf,
athletics and lesser sports, and owns
KEN LUKE
racehorses among others, Fighting
Force, which at one stage was a favorite
for this year’s Melbourne Cup. He has
owned a string of F.F. horses during the
past two decades, and the nomenclature
hasn’t been" too popular* with racegoers—
there’s a tendency to get the form of Fred
Flash mixed up with Flash Fred’s.
Ken Luke only went as far as the merit
standard at South Brunswick State school,
and became an apprentice engraver. But
he turned out a fine craftsman, and later
went into partnership, becoming a sole
proprietor just before the depression. He
kept all his staff by undertaking new
lines. He devotes his spare time to help-
ing foster a dozen charities and to helping
with local events at Romsey, the township
near his property.
• •
John Jennings, South Australian
manager of the E., S. and A. Bank since
1951, slipped into harness at Martin
Place last week as N. S. Wales manager.
He’s 44, Victorian by birth and educa-
tion (Scotch College), and plays tennis.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 78, J. F. Thorn, an outstanding
figure in the history of Westralian goldmining.
He arranged the amalgamation of mining
groups into The Lake View and Star, Ltd., and
was a former president of the Chamber of Mines.
At Southport (Q.), at 69, Norman Murray,
one of Queensland’s best-known graziers. He
owned two sheep-properties in the central west
(Beaconsfield, near Ilfracombe, and Delta, in the
Barcaldine district).
In Melbourne, at 70, Hubert Dallas Wiseman,
barrister. He was chairman of General Sessions
for several months this year, and twice acted as
Master of the Supreme Court. He wrote three
well-known legal text-books.
At Herberton (Q.), at 64, John Newell, manag-
ing-director of Jack and Newell Pty., Ltd. A
former inter-State footballer, he was with the
trench-mortars in World War I, coming back as
a captain.
In Sydney, at 65, John Fernside, one of
Sydney’s best-known actors. He was a member
of J. C. Williamson companies for over 30
years, and was in the film “The Overlanders.”


ABORIGINALITIES
r "pOUCHING on that par. by “J.M.” on
“The Man from Snowy River” (R.
2/10/’57) my father, Walter Mitchell,
took “Banjo” up on his first visit to
Kosciusko, and “Banjo” (the family
always called him Bartie) wrote to me
once how impressed he was by my
father’s ability to kill snakes with his
stockwhip without getting off his horse.
My father and “Banjo” spent the night
with Jack Riley in his hut in Groggin,
and “Banjo” told me it was listening to
old Jack’s reminiscences of wild rides
after cattle and brumbies on the flanks
“Not to HER, Boss—not to HER ! I won't be able to get a Word
in edgeuays!”
«>f Kosciusko that gave him the idea of
that poem.
The hut was still there when I visited
it when helping the Nankervises muster
cattle some years ago, but it is pretty
rickety now. It is situated in an eerie
wild gorge-track facing the little-known
country sweeping past Mt. Pinnabar to
Forest Hill and the coast roads further
on. Old Mr. Will Finlay told me before
he died of the epic trip they had with
Jack Riley when they found him desper-
ately ill and dying in this hut. He and
Butler had to walk one each side of the
horse holding Jack in his saddle up that
shocking climb to Mt. Hermit out of
Groggin and along the steep declivities
over the Murray Gates. A wild wind was
blowing, with snowflakes eddying through
the'tossing trees and the old man yelling
in delirium most of the time. They got
him down the 2000 ft. drop on the other
side and into the hut, and thought that
he would recover, but while they were
lighting the fire he suddenly slumped
forward dead. He finished the journey to
Corryong strapped on top of a pack-
horse and lay for over 30 years in an un-
marked grave in the local cemetery.
When I was shire president I felt that
this was hardly appropriate, and obtained
the granite cylinder mentioned in
“J.M.’s” paragraph, because I felt that
the ordinary tombstone was out of keep-
ing with the “Man from Snowy River.”
I always wished “Banjo” had written a
poem about the “Man from Snowy River’s
Last Ride,” but I could not get him to
do it. I think some other poet wrote
about it in The Bulletin, but I am not
sure of this and would appreciate
it if someone could perhaps let
me know. If possible, I’d like to get a
copy of The Bulletin of the date, if
such a verse ever appeared,
Jack Riley was a queer fellow, and
chose his life out there, I think, as the
result of a difference of opinion with the
police over the ownership of some horses.
It was al , art 0 take a botfle ,
i , -A. , ~ _ .
S ,. y al ° n ® Wlth y ° U ’ a , nd his fa ' v ' ont e
gambit was to say, See ’ere now, I am
not one of them there boozers, but I likes
it a little and often.” He certainly did
that, and the bottle was always empty in
the morning. He would then hunt you
out of the hut.
T. W. Mitchell.
* * * *
“Kintups”: Sold to a woql company
for £123,000, the sheep-station near
Ivanhoe (N.S.W.) known as Irish Lord’s.
Reg. Burcher, whose father at one time
owned the property, told me the name
stemmed from a jackeroo who was
reputed to be one of the Irish nobility.
The hut he occupied was facetiously
referred to by the rest of the hands as
“the Irish Lord’s,” and eventually the
property itself was referred to as such.
Whether the jackeroo was really a lord no
one ever knew, as he left suddenly and
was not heard of again.
* * * *
t
“A.J.K.”: His pet magpie Jackie risks
decapitation so often through eagerness
to get in to the turned-over sod in the
garden that Clarrie has got into the habit
of tossing a hunk of earth at him and
shouting out a warning “Look out! ”
whereupon Jackie does a dance and
flutters out of range. Clarrie was down
on his haunches weeding the lettuce-bed
and had just thrown aside a heap of
weeds when a raucous “Look out!”
screamed out from a few feet behind him
caused C.’s hair to go to the perpendicular
as he instinctively ducked. Jackie had
just learned to talk.
* * * *
“Woonulla”: If “Kelms” (B. 16/10/’57)
really thinks (as I’m sure he doesn’t) that
Cunnamulla is “on the S.A.-Queensland
border,” he’d better not go looking for it
. on foot, on a dry summer day, with a hole
in his waterbag.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Among the many scientific
discoveries made by accident was that
of arcanum, a mixture of 13 spices and a
mineral which, its German discoverer
claims, will preserve meat indefinitely
without freezing. He found this out
when a mouse fell into a bowl of the
mixture with which he was experimenting,
and was found, months later, to be per-
fectly preserved. Whether or not the
discovery is of interest to the meat trade
or only to embalmers, it throws a
fascinating light on the housekeeping
methods of biologists!
* * * •
“Kelms”: Recherche Archipelago un-
known (B, 9/10/’57)? ( Well, I dunno.
Years ago sheep from the mainland were
pastured regularly on some of the islands,
and lately it’s been suggested that the
islands might supply enough guano for a
fertiliser-works. But their greatest interest
is for naturalists. Sea-birds nest there,
mainly cormorants and some storm
petrels, and you can usually see some
terns and gulls and an occasional oyster-
catcher or a Cape Barren goose. There
are falcons and kestrels, and of course
swallows, and although the vegetation is


l Aluiayg ZHjoy Snatchsmoff’s
flAy/MG ; HE HAS SUCH
MARVELLOUS /y


“Is Earth eligible?”
rather sparse there’s enough blossom to
attract honeyeaters from the mainland —
some species even nest there. Seals bask
on the islands and lizards find enough
food to maintain a small population ; and
there’s probably a wealth of insect-life.
No, I wouldn’t say the Archipelago is
unknown; but, like many another
naturalist, I’m afraid it will soon become
a tourist-resort. It’s within cooee of
Esperance, where the Chase (American)
Syndicate is spending millions.
* * * *
Henry G. Lamond: Put a couple of
paws together for other literary dogs
who’ve given us enjoyment (B.
23/10/’57): those of Albert Dorrington
romped across many a Bulletin page ;
and the delightful Chow dog of I. C.
Bendrodt’s A Man, a Horse and a Dog.
* * * *
“Burr Imul”: My “lazy man’s garden,”
I claim, gives the maximum return for a
minimum space. In a 9ft.-by-3ft. plot I
put climbing beans, sweet-corn and
potatoes—all early-spring doers. It is
based on normal crop-rotation practice,
and forcing is not necessary. Each crop
takes its nourishment from different
levels in the soil,-and each uses different
elements. The coin matures, and when
the beans are finished the murphies will
be just right for digging.
* e *
“Sevenelms”: Unk White’s simian
butler (B. 16/10/’57) recalled that at San-
dakan we trained our orang-utan to
fetch us lemonade or soda-water from the
ice-chest and open it. Our hopes of
making him a domestic treasure faded
when, with a height of 4ft. 6in. and
weight of 9st., he became churlish when
any guest was disinclined to share his
beer with him. So he was consigned back
to freedom at Betotan, where his delin-
quent tendencies, obviously developed by
corrosive human contact, led to his am-
bushing Malay women to rob them of the
cooked lunches being taken to their hus-
bands up the logging railroad, and he
fell further into disgrace.
'T'HE auctioneer climbed on the fence
above the neat white card bearing
the pen-number, and began spruiking.
“Come on, buyers, here’s a choice line of
sheep ; come off good feed, full as ticks,
nothing drought-stricken about these—
you can be quite confident they’re not
hungry . . .” His voice was drowned by
a roar of cheers and laughter as a gaunt
old wether poked up to the rails, caught
the neat white card in his teeth, tore it
off the fence and ate it. —“Manamoi.”
* * * *
“G. Elburg”: Reference to country
papers’ one-time freedom from libel
actions (“O. P. Side,” B. 9/9/’57) recalls
“Bullant” Mclntyre, editor-proprietor of
the “Southern Cross Times” (W.A.).
There was not much of Bullant physically,
but he lived up to his pseudonym: he was
all fight and sting, and it was a poor issue
of the “Times” when it neglected to
libel someone. Bullant’s pet local hate
was the mayor, a chemist named Snook,
and attending council meetings in the
capacity of reporter Bullant concentrated
attention on his Worship. Report of pro-
ceedings in the following issue of his
paper would read: “A meeting of
Southern Cross Municipal Council was
held 0n...., the Mayor, Snivelling Snook,
in the chair. In reply to a question by
Councillor , Snivelling said....”
Thereafter the Mayor’s surname was
dropped: he was named only Snivelling
in the remainder of the report.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A kangaroo can do
better than 40ft. in a hop (B. 16/10/ ? 57).
One leap, taped by a member of the
W.A. Naturalists’ Association, and con-
sidered authentic enough to be recorded
in its journal, measured 44ft. 9in. That
was in flat country, and it may be a
record, but I’ve stepped a leap of well
over 30ft., including a sft. fence, made
when the ’roo wasn’t pressed. Never
heard of a “grey” flyer, although the term
could well apply, seeing there are two
species of big, fast ’roos —the giant greys
and the giant reds. The reds are gener-
ally considered the fastest, and the term
“flying doe,” or “blue flyer,” is reserved
for the red doe. A red has been clocked
at 45 m.p.h. in front of a car, and 55
m.p.h. has been claimed. That would
make it one of the fastest animals on
earth.
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Fijians certainly have a
way with children. My toddler will go
to any Fijian woman, though he refuses
the friendly advances of strange
Europeans. Walking down the street of
sleepy Tavua, he went to every Fijian
woman sitting cross-legged by the road-
side, and sat in each of their laps in turn.
They thought it a huge joke.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“P.A.R.”: On Carmichael’s Western
Lands lease, adjoining Mt. Manara, one
of a chain of low ridges out from Cobar
(N.S.W.), is a hill with caves —little
porches really up inside the roofs
are prints of red hands, emu-feet and
other markings. The strangest looks like
that of a child’s head which had been
pressed into the soft marl and had
hardened in the course of ages until the
eroded hillside allowed the weather to
crumble a cave, allowing the skull to
drop out and leaving the hollow impress
of the shape and the features. This mould
is glazed like the inside of a shell, pro-
bably by seawater. What the race-type is
has never, so far as I knew, been
determined.


nrHE cutting-rate fixed by the cane-
A inspector and the Cairns (Q.) farmer
not being acceptable to the gang, the
industrial magistrate was called in to
arbitrate, and heard evidence from the
cane-ganger, the A.W.U. organiser and
the farmer’s representative. When the
dispute was amicably settled the parties s
adjourned to a leading hotel for refresh-.
ments. The magistrate called for a sherry
with a cherry, the farmer’s advocate a
“Yes, dear! Coming right away !”
vermouth, the union man asked for a gin
with ginger-beer and crushed-ice. When
the barmaid asked the cane-ganger to
name his he said: “Aw, I’m not as fussy
as these blokes ; give us a pot o’ beer
with a mango in it!” —“8.H.K.”
* * * *
“Joanne”: The honor-badge of a
famous Public School, treasured by the
mother of a deceased soldier, had been
lost for 20 years. It was found inside the
lining of a suitcase by children who had
salvaged the case from a rubbish-tip.
The badge had been to England twice in
the case, and had apparently fallen into it
from the owner’s blouse when the case
was being relined for the first trip.
* * * *
“Kros”: Tides and currents in the
oceans are among the items now being
studied in the course of the International
Geophysical Year. The floor of the Ant-
arctic ocean is also being investigated—
it’s about the only ocean-bed left which
hasn’t had a pretty thorough tape run
over it. Most of the beds of the great
oceans, incidentally, are not flat plains,
as was earlier thought, but (as revealed
by the echo-sounder) have mountain-
chains thrusting upwards, and are cut
by deep ravines and yawning canyons.
These topographical features influence the
tides and currents, though they’re not
alone responsible for them. The bed of
the Indian Ocean, for instance, is flat and
featureless, yet its currents are among the
strongest in the world. This is probably
why few traces of the old Dutch and
Spanish treasure-ships wrecked on the
Westralian coast have been found—their
remains have been carried away by now
down to Heard Island or thereabouts.
“W.P.T.”: Like the bower-bird, the
emu is attracted by any small, bright
object; but whereas Bowery uses
them to decorate his playground, the big
bird gulps ’em down. Knew one bloke
in nor’-west N.S.W. who made it
standard practice to submit any dead emu
he came across to an autopsy. And no
prospector hitting “color” got a bigger
thrill than ■ he when —as occasionally
happened—he lit on a bit of jewellery.
* * * *
“R.H.G.”: Confident that the resources
of the machine-age would defeat the fowl-
ticks, I mixed a powerful brew of sump-
oil and kero. Using a cleaning-gun with
1001 b. of air behind it, I sprayed every-
thing in sight, swooshing tick out of
cracks, drenched in sump-oil which
became lethally warm under pressure.
That night the population,-revealed by
torches, was only slightly diminished.
Somewhat shaken, I started on them with
a blow-torch next day, finishing up with
an oxy-torch. I played the naked flame
on to a bunch of them and heated them
cherry-red, but there were still survivors.
The amount of heat they could absorb
was awe-inspiring. Individually, each bug
had to be pursued and incinerated with a
roaring torch going full blast or a hissing
oxy-flame. With the whole fowlhouse
charred in every joint and crack, they
still emerged. Wood is a poor conductor
of heat, and they can survive tremendous
temperatures behind a thin partition,
which accounted for a lot of survivors.
But their resistance to destruction on any
terms has to be seen to be believed. What
does beat ’em, anyway?
# * * «
“C. Farm”: The clearing-sale over, the
pub was the next stop for most of us
cocky customers. Conversation ranged
over farm-machinery in general, and then
bogged to the axles on the Sun Vertical
plough. Combining business with pleasure
I was drawn olf into a corner. Returning
to the group many beers later, I inquired
if “they were still on the Vertical?”
“Vertical?” echoed Jimmy, blankly.
“We’re all bloody near horizontal!”
THE GREAT WHITE WARRIOR
Here where the story started, the morning
chilled with fear,
As Hornet Bank lay bleeding ’neath
boomerang and spear.
Out of the stations ruin, all orphaned
and bereft,
A wounded child was living, the only
Fraser left.
He did not see the bushmen band in the
crimson dawn
To ride the tracks of slaughter that hate
and vengeance spawn,
Where past the long brown river, crumb-
ling on Soldier’s Plain,
The bones from that grim foray still to
this day remain.
His was the strangest childhood —while
other children played,
Further and further outward young
Jimmy Fraser strayed;
Roving across the ridges, roaming the
scrub-belts through,
He learned the wildland’s secrets no other
white man knew.
Young, but with bushlore laden, deaf to
all pleas or jibes,
He sought the untamed ranges, revenge
on the wild black tribes.
Unkempt, half-wild, relentless, scorning
the stockman s toil,
Never a fiercer hunter has trod the
Queensland soil.
Through the red years he slew them, he
dogged them night and day ;
Here was the great white warrior the
spirits sent to slay !
Not in the misty dreaming had such a
hunter stalked,
Not the most ancient elder had seen a
“wind that walked.’’
Racked by the wounds of childhood, in
man’s. half-crazy pride,
Beyond the long brown river young Jimmy
Fraser died;
But in the dark ones’ legends, far past
the age of spears,
Fear of the great white warrior has
lingered through the years.
QUEENSLAND.
LEX MCLENNAN.


THE Ul-BRITISN
onuMmyftiwt
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
r
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
CONWAY STEWART i CO. ITO. I 0 « 0 0 •
Business.Rollery, RTE.
Quieter Going
A/fOST economic indicators
throughout the world at
present point to quieter going.
The United Kingdom’s new
defence policy, which -was
announced earlier this year,
was bound to have an influence
on defence spending, and, as
was mentioned here at the time,
this and the revised U.S.
defence esti mates would
probably affect world com-
modity prices.
This has already become
evident in the drop in metal
prices following the end of
stockpiling in parts of the
Western world, and, as used to
be the pattern prior to 1939,
when metals are weak there is
a tendency for other com-
modities to weaken in price
also.
Most Australian export-
price indexes are down, includ-
ing that for wool, and the
balance-of-payments for the
current year, good so far,
could be much less our way
than was the case in 1956-57.
A world-wide drop in raw-
material prices will, in the end,
mean a shrinkage in the volume
of world trade in manufactured
goods, and will make it diffi-
cult for most countries depend-
ing on overseas trade to
maintain economic equilibrium.
Several countries, including
France, India and Indonesia,
are in economic difficulties.
In the circumstances the con-
tinuance of anti - inflation
measures in British Common-
wealth countries is greatly to
be desired. If costs can. be
kept down it will be much
easier to adjust national
economies to altered conditions,
and help to justify an internal
full-employment policy based
on expenditure on needed
public works.
Metal Shares
/CONSIDERABLE uncertainty
prevails in the market for
Australian base-metal stocks.
Fluctuations are very wide.
The statement by the chair-
man of North Broken Hill to
the effect that, for the present,
more lead and zinc is being
produced than is being con-
sumed in the world (see page
29, this issue), as well as
consequently lower metal
prices, had a depressing effect
on Barrier stocks, and Norths
dropped to £5 11s. 6d. Con-
solidated Zinc dropped to 665.,
and New Broken Hill was
down to 445.
Mt. Isa drifted back to 30s.
until announcement of the div.-
cum - bonus - issue (one - for -
10 tax-free bonus-issue as part
of an unchanged final of
15 p.c.), when there was a
recovery to 335. 6d.
The significance of the £5O-
- capital - expenditure
programme by Consolidated
Zinc on Cape York bauxite-
exploitation has yet to be
determined, but it could have
the tendency to keep share-
holders “div.-poor” over a
lengthy period if profits from
Barrier silver-lead are partly
turned-back into Queensland
aluminium production.
The outlook for aluminium
in the world’s markets has
suddenly become, for the
present, as uncertain as that for
other base metals* In both
Canada and the U.S.A. the
aluminium giants have suddenly
revised their expansive plans.
However, over the long
term, which is certainly the way
“Virgin territory , Mr. Dobbs!”
to look at the Cape York
proposition, the demand for
aluminium, as for other base
metals, should increase.
But finding the capital for
development in Australia is
likely to put a brake on profit-
distributions of any company
with expansive ideas.
Malcolm Moore Industries
r T'HE heavy loss (£163,123,
compared with a profit of
£153,087 shown in the pre-
ceding year) recorded by
Malcolm Moore Industries,
Ltd., Melbourne, in the year to
Tune 30 last was apparently less
than the sharemarket expected.
The £1 ords. have firmed
from 12s. 9d. to 17s. in Mel-
bourne.
From being a high div.-
payer (20 p.c. from 1950 to
1954) the co. has overspread
itself and slipped badly in the
past three years. Tractors have
been one of the stumbling-
blocks.
Last term it blamed slack-
ness in its roadmaking-
machinery department, losses
on tractor trade-ins and can-
cellation of a Federal Govern-
ment contract at the St. Mary’s
ammunition-filling factory for
most of its current misfortunes.
It grew-up on the manufac-
ture of overhead and travelling
cranes and conveyors for
mines, wharves, gasworks, etc.
The time appears to have
arrived for some overhaul
and rationalisation of the
whole organisation, in order to
concentrate efforts on the most
payable sections of the
business.
It has formed a subsidiary
offshoot to carry-out work in
the new Chase settlement
venture at Esperance (W.A.). It
hopes to dispose of some of its
trade-in tractors in this area.
Paid capital of Malcolm
Moore Industries, Ltd., is
£1,840,000, with reserves of
about £825,000. Stocks are high
at £2,399,990, but are lower
than last year.
Golden Plateau, N.L. (Q.)
A LARGER quantity of
slightly lower-grade ore
was taken from the Cracow (Q.)
goldfield by Golden Plateau,
N.L., last term, but the added
revenue wasn’t enough to cover
increases in working-costs and
royalties, net profit dropping
back from the first time since
1951.
Average grade of the 34,080
tons (up 3910 tons) mined was
11.12dwt. gold, as against
11.49dwt. in the preceding year,
an extra 3785 tons going
through the mill:
Ore Gold, Silver, Div.
Crushed, Fine Fine Profit. £
Tons. Oz. Oz. £ (1/3)
’53..23,181 11,384 12,122 79,472 52,575
(2/-)
’54..25,859 13,292 9,659 84,967 84,200
(2/3)
’55..28,016 14,872 9,207 108,597 94,725
(2/3)
’56..30,170 15,776 12,935 122,807 94,725
(2/-)
’57..33,955 17,095 17,128 118,287 84,200
There was*a 90.61 p.c. recovery


SAFE INVESTMENT
of
Security of capital and a regular income are
assured when you invest your money on Interest-
Bearing Deposit.
There are higher interest rates now offering
on other types of investment, but prudent people
think twice about interest rates in relation to
security. Safety of capital and a reasonable
return make Interest-Bearing Deposits an attrac-
tive investment.
Interest-Bearing Deposits with the Bank of
New South Wales are secured by the substantial
resources of Australia’s oldest and largest trading
bank, with assets exceeding £500,000,000.
Rates of interest at present are:—
3|% per,annum for 24 months
2f % per annum for 12 months
2\ % per annum for 6 months
2\ % per annum for 3 months
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and largest trading bank in Australia
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
AS7S2C
(91.01 p.c. in 1955-56) to give
a recovery value of 10.07 dwt.
(down 0.38dwt.).
Working-costs were reduced
from 945. to 78s. 3d. per ton
treated over the three years to
June 30, 1956, but an increased
rate of development, variations
in wage-awards and the high
cost of stores, etc., reversed
the trend last term, the cost per
ton of ore rising by a shade
over 6s. 3d. to 84s. 7d. After
charging £6628 (up £2719) for
depreciation, the working-
account surplus was £4092
lower at £118,493.
An extra £lOBO (£2344) was
put aside to cover royalty
charges introduced by the
Queensland Government half-
way through the previous term,
while the liability for tax was
reckoned at £965 (up £378),
net profit falling by £4520 to
£118,287. Investments returned
an additional £704 at £3085.
Divs. have been sent out in
all but three of the co.’s 25
years, 2s. a share going to
shareholders last term, with an
interim div. of Is. a share pay-
able next month. (The mine
has paid out a total of
£1,691,425 in divs.) An exten-
sive programme of capital-
works in the current term —
involving the deepening of the
shaft, conversion to S.E.C.
power and plant improvements
—was one of the main reasons
for the omission of a 3d. bonus
div. paid in the two preceding
terms.
Current assets (including
stores, £45,045) and invest-
ments (£86,031 in Common-
wealth and public-utility loans)
totalled £184,240 at June 30
last, exceeding liabilities by
£164,462.
Ore-reserves, which have
kept two or three years ahead
of the mill over the last five
terms, dropped last year by
10,130 tons to 72,770 tons,
averaging B.BBdwt. gold.
The chairman (Wallace H.
Smith) told shareholders at last
week’s annual meeting that the
mine was continuing to respond
to development and gave every
promise of being a profitable
producer for some time yet.
Of the 842,000 3s. 4d. shares
issued, 630,000 are paid to
2s. 6d. and the balance fully
paid. The Is. interim div. is
payable to shareholders on the
register on the 15th of this
month, the scrip at 21s. 9d.
cum div. giving an effective
yield of £9 12s. 9d. p.c. from a
distribution of 2s. per share.
The Medical Benefits Fund
A PART from Commonwealth
claims(£2,s2s,924)handled,
the Medical Benefits Fund of
Australia, Ltd., paid out
£4,119,887 in claims last year,
from contributions totalling
£5,171,162. Its administration
costs were reasonable at
£662,142 (12.7 p.c. of income),
and £451,305 was added to
funds (now £2,301,572).
It is an entirely non-profit-
making organisation.
Almost 2,200,000 persons
are now covered for medical
benefits by the scheme. On
present indications another
quarter-million persons will
become eligible for benefit
during 1957-58.
For the benefit of its mem-
bers the fund has inter-State
transfer reciprocity arranged
by the non-profit Blue Cross
Association.
“About 70 p.c. of insurable
people are already insured with
registered funds, and this per-
centage continues to rise,” the
fund’s president. Dr. H. R. R.
Grieve, says. He adds: “This
can only be taken as evidence
of the Australian people’s
approval of the National
Health Scheme.”
There is no doubt that the
Medical Benefits Fund, in
association with the Hospitals
Contribution Fund of N.S.W.,
has rendered a most useful
service to the community.
The fund has now provided
medical and hospital assistance
to its contributors and their
families to the extent of £17.7
million.
The fund is decentralised
through 10,000 employee-
groups and chemist - agents.
Employers in many cases sub-
sidise employees’ contributions
as a staff-welfare measure.
A.N.A. and Ansett
from Queensland,
“Complex” asks:
With reference to articles in B.
16/10/’57 in regard to A.N.A., it
is very hard to reconcile a lot of
what is taking place with A.N.A.
Is it not a fact that the principal
shareholders in A.N.A. were
William Holyman and Sons,
Adelaide Steamship Co., Ltd.,
Huddart Parker, Ltd., Union Steam-
ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd., and the
Orient Line, and the directors of the
A.N.A. were merely nominees of the
shareholding companies which
supplied the directors’ shareholding
qualifications?
Further, is it not a fact that
P. and O. hold a controlling or sub-
stantial interest in the Orient Line
and the Union Steamship Co. of
N.Z., Ltd., and, through the latter
company, a controlling or substantial
interest in Wm. Holyman and Sons?
Also, does not P. and O. control —
or hold a substantial interest in—
Ansett’s Airways through Mac-
donald, Hamilton and Co., Ltd., and
WilHam and Co a holding-company
tor Macdonald, Hamilton and Co.?
If the assumptions set out above
are correct, then it is difficult to
understand what all the fuss is about
in regard to the sale of A.N.A. to
Ansett’s.
The information “Complex”
offers gqes off the rails com-
pletely when his chain of
alleged associations reaches
Macdonald, Hamilton and Co.
P. and O. have no shares or
partnership-interest whatever in
Macdonald, Hamilton and Co.
And neithur Macdonald,
Hamilton nor William and Co.
have, or have ever had, shares
j n Ansett Transport Industries,
t.j . . * *
» which controls Ansett
Airways.
u , ~
Hardware Cos.
T AST week shares in Swans
(Sydney) and Sorbys (Ncw-
castle) could be bought to yield
6.2 p.c. Frederic Ash (New-
castle) shares offered 6.4 p.c.
The most expansive of the
three cos. is Sorbys, which has
just made a bid for control of
Newcastle Building and Invest-
ment. The co. with the highest
asset-backing is Frederic Ash»-


lUeMral feuftfcs 3nnb
of Australia Utmitrfc
A mutual non-profit organisation limited by guarantee
( Registered under the National Health Act)
REPORT OF THE HONORARY COUNCIL FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1957
Adopted by the Annual Meeting of the Association held in the Meeting
Room, The Institute of Chartered Accountants, 6 Wynyard Street, Sydney,
on Thursday, 31st October, 1957.
HTHE Council has pleasure in presenting the Eleventh Annual Report and
Financial Statements for the year ended 30th June, 1957.
DEVELOPMENT
During the year expansion of the Fund more than kept pace with the growth of
population and almost 2,200,000 persons are now covered for medical benefits.
On present indications another quarter of a million persons will become eligible
for benefit during the financial year 1957-58.
About 70% of insurable people are already insured with registered funds, and
this percentage continues to rise. This can only be taken as evidence of the
Australian people’s approval of the National Health Scheme.
In Queensland and Tasmania over 550,000 persons are eligible for hospital benefits,
and the response from residents of the Northern Territory, Papua and New Guinea,
where Distriet Offices are now established, has been most gratifying.
A most important feature of the Fund is its decentralisation through 10,000 employee-
groups and chemist-agents. Employers generally regard voluntary health insurance
as a staff welfare measure, and in many instances encourage this form of self-help
by subsidising employees’ contributions.
BLUE CROSS ASSOCIATION
For the benefit of its members the Fund actively participates in the interstate transfer
reciprocity arrangement sponsored by the non-profit Blue Cross Association. As a
co-ordinating body, Blue Cross thus brings to irund memuers uie opportunity to
preserve benefit rights should they take up residence in another State and join
an affiliated Fund.
BENEFITS AND ADMINISTRATION
Perhaps the most compelling evidence of the Fund’s vaiue to the community is its
benefits history. During the year benefits paid amounted to £6,045,800 and exceed
the previous year’s figure by £1,270,600.
The Fund has now provided medical and hospital assistance to its contributors
and their families to the extent of £17,700,000 and the annual benefit payout
will attain £10,000,000 in the foreseeable future.
A feature of Fund service, almost unique in insurance of any kind, is the payment
of small straight-forward benefit claims in cash over the counter at a number of
centres in New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania.
The granting of medical benefit for pre-existing ailments to persons with two
years’ continuous membership has proved of considerable assistance to many persons.
Moreover, membership with the Fund is enabling people to seek medical advice
earlier and as frequently as is necessary. Thus suffering is alleviated and lives
are saved.
An actuarial examination of benefits experience has been conducted over a period
of some months and is continuing. Information gleaned will enable an accurate
determination of any benefit expansion and contribution rate increase required to
provide higher benefits to those who may desire additional insurance coverage.
During the year the General Manager was sent overseas to investigate medical and
hospital health services. He also undertook specialised training in electronic data
processing, for there is considerable evidence that the acquisition of a suitable
electronic computer will be the means of achieving greater administrative accuracy
and economy than is possible under the present day mechanical/manual processes.
The occupation of its own premises in Brisbane towards the end of the financial
year achieved an immediate improvement in efficiency and saving in administrative
expense. Rebuilding of the Hobart premises is nearing completion and it is planned
to commence the erection of a suitable building in Sydney to house the Head
Office Administration and New South Wales Branch at an early date. The temporary
Head Office in Jamison Street is quite inadequate and the administration i*
conducted at present from four locations in Sydney.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
With assets exceeding £2,300,000, of which £1,740,000 are liquid, the financial
position is regarded as sound.
Administrative expenses for the year absorbed only 12.7% of income. The recent
influenza epidemic emphasised the need to maintain an adequate Claims Reserve,
and accordingly Council recommends the transfer of the sum of £360,000. The
total Claims Reserve will then stand at £2,195,000, which represents 16/1 per
person covered.
APPRECIATION OF SERVICES
The Council expresses its thanks to:
Employers and group secretaries, to receiving agents, chemists and to members of
the medical profession who have co-operated so w'holeheartedly in assisting their
employees and the public generally in securing the advantages of membership
with the Fund.
The Hospitals Contribution Fund of N.S.W. for its valuable assistance.
The Management and Staff, whose untiring efforts have assisted in building a
üblic utility which is now a vital part of the Australian w'ay of life.
H. R. R. GRIEVE, President.
but its earnings slipped last
year, and the market for its
shares has fallen from 555. to
.475.
Depreciation In N.Z.
news foF many com-
” panies and their share-
holders came early' this month
when Finance Minister Watts
announced that progress had
been made with the adjustment
of rates of depreciation for tax
purposes and that increases
have been decided on in many
cases.
For the income-year ending
March next, and thereafter,
companies will be able to set
aside for depreciation 10 per
cent., instead of 7| per cent.,
of the diminishing value of
plant and machinery before
arriving at their taxable profit.
Consideration will also be given
to individual applications for
higher rates because of special
factors.
Since the elimination of
special allowances last year
permitted depreciation has,
for many companies, been in-
sufficient to meet the true cost
of plant-replacement. In other
words, these companies have
been paying tax on “profits”
which they have not made.
The relief now granted will
be particularly helpful to com-
panies engaged in heavy
industry. Likely candidates for
special rates over and above
the 10 per cent, are cement and
fertiliser concerns. Wilson’s
Cement’s depreciation this year
included £60,000 out of tax-
paid profits.
N.Z. Government Loan
HTHE Government’s £22-
million cash-and-conver-
sion loan was remarkably
successful. Subscriptions
totalled £21,240,590, £l7 million
from conversion applications
and £4 million from cash appli-
cations. The response was sur-
prising in view of the higher
yields obtainable in the market.
Maximum rate for the new
loan was 4| per cent, for terms
of six years or more. Some
comparable stocks could be
bought in the market at the
beginning of November to show
a final maturity yield of up to
5 per cent., the highest rate
obtainable from Government
stock in N.Z. for many years.
L. Owen on 2BL
Saturday, November 16,
at 7.15 p.m., L. Owen,
Bulletin oil-commentator and
well-known petroleum - geolo-
gist, will speak over station
2BL on “Aids to Oil-finding.”




SUNDRY
SHOWS
Stage and Music
“The Happiest Days of
Your Life”
Rather too carefully pro-
duced and acted to achieve the
mood of high farce it needs,
this version of John Dighton's
well-known comedy (Current at
Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre)
still has its moments of delight-
ful fun.
English actress Margaret
Rutherford, as the headmistress
of St. Swithin’s School for
Girls which is billeted with
Hilary Hall for Boys, dominates
the scene with her presence
and shows how one can walk
across the floor of a stage as if
one owned every inch of that
floor. Kevin Brennan, as the
headmaster, fails to give
individuality to the part, but
Wendy Blacklock (whose
Scottish accent rendered her
wellnigh inaudible) sketched a
St. Trinian’s-type schoolgirl to
be remembered.
The set, and the production
by John Mills, are handsome
throughout, but somehow one
seems to remember laughing
more at the ragged rollicking
exuberance shown in amateur
productions during recent years.
“The Bloke” on Trial
At Sydney Empire, late on a
Wednesday afternoon, leads in
J.C.W.’s “Pyjama Game” gave
trial performances in costume
of some half-dozen songs from
Albert Aden’s musical “The
Sentimental Bloke.”
Aden had come down from
Canberra on the Sunday and
the singers had thus only two
days to mug-up their words and
music, as Harald Bowden, rang-
ing the almost-empty theatre,
explained to an audience which
included George Ferguson
and Colin Roderick of
Dennis’s publishers, Angus and
Robertson, at least one music-
publisher, journalists, photo-
graphers, and Andrew Mac-
Cunn, the Firm’s immortal con-
ductor. . .
Keith Petersen came on first,
wearing a hat asiant and a shirt
without a collar and pushing a
trolley, singing, “In the town
beside the Yarra, Always
pushin’ of me barra,” which
included cries of “Rabbit-oh!”
—except for no red hair and
maybe an inch or so of height,
a creditable Ginger Mick. Bill
Newman as the Bloke, with
cap and scarf, sang his long
and involved aria beginning
“The world ’as got me snouted
jist a treat” from the score—
a magnificent voice. Tikki
Taylor, in boa, lace-blouse and,
for the period, short skirt, was
Rose (of Spadger’s Lane, wasn't
it?) bouncing along an
imaginary line of chorus-girls
singing “On Sunday Arvo.”
Frank Sheldon made a com-
mendably objectionable Stror-
’at Coot, explaining his attrac-
tion for the girls and conclud-
ing with a soft-shoe dance.
But it was Toni Lamond
singing “My Sentimental Bloke”
who gave everyone confidence ;
it is an unmistakable hit, with
a last-line catch-in-the-throat,
and as she sang it one could
understand how girls of those
days with starched white
dresses to .within four-inches of
the ground could still get their
men it was a relief to see
another ageing gent, in a front
seat taking off his glasses to
dry the furtive tear.
So if it is true that you need
only one great song for a
musicomedy, then they’ve got
it; and if they can only get
some good comic-business,
remembering the days when
geniuses like Gus Bluett and
Leo Franklin were considered
nothing unusual, and an
evanescent wisp of plot, they
can hardly go wrong with it.
Aust. Composers’ Night
The Cammeray (Sydney)
Music Group’s night of Aus-
tralian compositions was
particularly notable for the
works of Charles Lambie,
whose songs and piano pieces
deserve wider recognition. His
Rhapsody in B Flat Minor,
structurally strong and with
rich harmonies, is an essay in
the form which could stand
comparison with some of those
minted by famous names.
Lambie is particularly in his
element with Scottish ballads,
as evidenced by “Fair Helen of
Kirconnel” (sung with fine
verve by bass Douglas Parnell)
and the engaging “I Love a
Lass.” Of three other songs
of his (sung by contralto Mary
Blake) the most attractive was
“Rare Willie Drowned in
Yarrow.”
Miriam Hyde, the other Aus-
tralian composer represented,
played the first movement from
her own Sonata in G Minor,
comprising four charming
miniature scenes. Her well-knit
“Phantasy” Trio in B Minor
was played by Sydney Univer-
sity’s Alban Trio (Janice Barry,
violin ; Marjorie Ensor, piano ;
and Norman Martin,. ’cello).
The Alban Trio also provided
the evening’s ring-in three
String Trios by Englishman
Frank Bridge.
“The Multi-colored
Umbrella”
Barbara Vernon’s play about
a Bondi bookmaking family
doesn’t set out to be a great
Australian drama, and it
certainly isn’t, but that much
said one can meet it comfort-
ably on its own level and credit
it for what it is—a crisply and
intelligently written theatre-
piece which, in the current
presentation at Sydney Royal,
is expertly produced by Peter
Randall and generally well
acted, losing a little from two
inadequate performances and
gaining tremendously from one
brilliant one.
The brilliant performance
comes from Peter Aanenson,
a Melbourne actor new to this
Sydney commentator. He
plays the elder of the two sons
who are in the bookmaking
business with their father ; he
is a large, forceful, slangy and
essentially amiable character
with more shrewd intelligence
than learning you could
probably meet him on any
street or in any pub in Aus-
tralia. Aanenson really puts
him on the stage, and that *is
quite an achievement, remem-
bering the number of actors
who have tried and failed to
do something similar. So
naturally does Aanenson do it,
in fact, that; it would b 6 easy
to pass over his performance as
a clever bit of casting, but
there is too much strength,
sensitivity and intelligence in
his acting for that.
The story hinges mainly on
the younger brother and his
cooking of fhe family book in
an effort to solve matrimonial
difficulties with a wife from
several social stages above him.
Their real troubles, however,
are bedroom frustrations, and
Miss Vernon’s presentation and
working-out of these is at once
plausible, glib and rather
shallow the cookery-book
psychology of newspaper
“doctors who tell.”
Jeffrey Hodgson and Pamela
Greenall, as the younger
brother and his wife, could
help here by gluing themselves
less adhesively to moods of
frigidity and weakness respec-
tively. There is no reason why
both characters should not be
likeable despite their weak-
nesses ; more subtlety in the
acting—particularly against the
force and variety of Aanenson
—could give them some attrac-
tiveness and earn them a
sympathy that might engender
more than an academic interest
in the solving of their problem.
Robert Earle and Marjorie
Archibald, as v “Dadda” and
“Mumma,” skate confidently
and satisfactorily across the
surface of roles that have little
depth in them anyway, and
Brenda de Lacy, as a teenager,
does very nicely with one of
those rush-on-rush-off roles
which so often get more
applause than half-an-hour’s
solid work. >
Artbursts
Clifton Pugh
It is pretty safe to say that
if Drysdale and Nolan had not
been before him as expositors
of the drama of the outback,
Clifton Pugh’s rocks, dingoes,
stumps, crows and apostle-
birds at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, would have
set the Harbor on fire; and
even allowing for the influence
of these forerunners it remains
the most vivid and the most
promising one-man show seen
here for many a long day.
What gives one high hopes
for this painter is the least
obvious of his qualities: his
warmth and fidelity of observa-
tion. Though he has his own,
distinctive faculty of dramatic
design, any of a dozen con-
temporary painters could have
given us something very closely
resembling his crimson dingo
tearing up a dead sheep in
stylised angles of ferocity ; but
few would have the skill, the
patience and the genuine feel-
ing for Nature to paint black-
boys in flower instead of just
stark verticals or to do so
delicate a spike of flowers


(M>
LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY.
MMalgoty
AND COMPANY LIMITED
CONSERVE ALL YOU CAN IN A
LYSAGHT
HEAVY GAUGE
kL
gpSBs£g
Four standard sires range
from 25,000 to 100,000
gallons capacity
MATERIAL: Heavy gauge 5/5" corrugated galvanized
sheets, pre-driiled and curved. Waterproof jointing
material: bolts, nuts, washers and tools. Outlet fitting,
drilled and threaded to suit every pipe size up to 6".
Rotted construction facilitates replacement of sheets with-
out dismantling tank.
Lysaght Tanks are designed
to be erected on concrete
bases (provided by the pur-
chaser). Details of recom-
mended bases, using the
cement penetrant method of
construction, are available
on request.
Special materials for cement
penetrated concrete base ore
available as optional extras.
Cement, sand and aggregate
ere provided by the purchaser.
USES:
0 Water conservation
• Irrigation head tanl
0 Industrial water
storage
0 Swimming pools
• Town water supply
0 Fire fighting
Overflow unit ayailabl •
at slight extra cost
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Prices c.iJ. capital cities available on application
10,000-Gallon Water Tanks (tall or squat) are available also
10.000-GALLON WATER TANK PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
14ft. 4in. dia., 10ft. 7in. high lift. tin. dia., 6ft. sin. high
Basic unit. £ll7 Basic unit. £93
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. ia all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
LCI3AXC
as the heath in “Heath and
Rocks”—a really lovely paint-
ing where the stark reds of his
more ■ obvious dramas have
been softened to warm pinks
and even the blacks have a
charcoal softness.
Distinction for Pugh may
well lie along this path ; and
it is surprising, indeed, that he
has not already carried his
observation further. There
seems no logical reason, pro-
vided he does not lose his
dramatic quality, why he
should have a real blackbo'y
and a fake dingo ; why the
textures of fur and feathers
should not become as important
to him as the texture of a spike
of heath.
♦> ♦> ❖
Caltex Prize
It is a tribute to the tact of
the artistic community that,
while several painters in the
Caltex Prize exhibition in
Sydney duly portrayed the
splendor of the new Caltex
building and few strayed to
Qantas, nobody went so far
as to do Shell House.
Caltex thoughtfully invited
the public to vote for the six
best entries ; the voter getting
nearest to the popular choice to
be awarded a painting from
the exhibition valued at 100
guineas.
This commentator, fearing
the awful responsibility of
being saddled with one of the
paintings, did not submit his
ballot-paper. But here (looking
first for something that satis-
fied the conditions of the com-
petition, as a painting of “Our
Changing Cities”; next for
artistic quality ; and next for
a style suitable for such a
subject) is his choice:
1, Thomas Gleghorn’s
“Sydney by the Quay”; 2,
Frank Hinder’s “Over the
Bridge”; 3, Roland Wakelin’s
“Our Changing Cities”; 4, Sali
Herman’s “Old and New”; 5,
Roy Fluke’s “Circular Quay”;
6, Ronald Steuart’s “Reclama-
tion, Kurnell.” Anybody who
disagrees with this list is, of
course, wrong.
Some of the most attractive
paintings, such as J. Carington
Smith’s “The Terminus at
Night” and John Baird’s
“Bulwara Road, Ultimo” didn’t
have enough to do with “Our
Changing Cities” to be in the
running.
<* *> ❖
Old Maps and Paintings
There was some art and
infinite craftsmanship in the
show of old colored maps
(European, Asian, American
and Australasian) and of
shipping paintings and prints
lately on show at the Joshua
McClelland print - room in
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Christopher Saxton’s map
from the earliest English county
atlas (1579), with its heraldic
decorations and its lovely
printing, the Survey of the
Town and Borough of Col-
chester by Thomas Sparrow
and the map of the Netherlands
by Emmanuel Bowen —these
shine like gems.
The same may be said of the
gropings of the early Dutch
and English cartographers
about the coasts of Africa,
Asia, East India and Australia.
These mapmakers got most of
their information, especially
about Australia, from the
mishaps of the mariners, who
for 200 years ran down the
trade-wind in their ponderous
galleons from the Cape until
they sighted the north-west
coast of Terra Australis.
Then they hastily hauled
their wind for Java. As often
as not they arrived at night and
felt Australia before they saw
it. There was panic and con-
fusion. The ship couldn’t
turn on its heel like a modern
butter and it couldn’t beat to
windward much better than a
haystack, so it crashed on the
Abrolhos or on Rottnest Island
and a year or 10 years later a
survivor arrived in Holland
with a bit more explicit infor-
mation for the mapmakers.
Some of the maps are not so
reliable ,as others. A German
chart places Sydney Cove more-
or-less where it should be, but
at the same time has another
somewhere back of Bourke
possibly the record of
an early attempt at decentra-
lisation. It is a lovely map,
however, with a lovely surface.
So is “Southern Continent,”
surveyed by Captain Abel
Tasman and depicted by an
artist to the order of the East
India Company of Holland.
As charming a feature of the
exhibition as the maps are the
paintings. The series of original
colored line-engravings of
Cook’s Voyages were made
from sketches done on the spot
by ship’s artisans who didn’t
regard themselves as artists but
whose observation was con-
siderably better than that of a
lot of painters who do. J.
Cleveley was the carpenter on
board the Resolution, and, for
the beautifully done studies of
those noble ships Discovery
and Resolution, he may be
forgiven for equipping the
savage Maoris with sarongs
and turbans.
Films
“Slaughter on Tenth
Avenue”
This crime-drama deals with
corruption and violence in a
longshoremen’s . union, and,
although it hasn’t the punch


FOR A
RISK-FREE
INVESTMENT
with a High Net Return
LOOK TO
COMMONWEALTH
LOANS!
The advantages of a steady income and Government guaranteed repay-
ment of capital at full face value on maturity are further enhanced for
faxpaying holders of Commonwealth Securities by an Income Tax
rebate* of 2/- in each £1 of Commonwealth Loan interest included in
their taxable incomes. Lodge your application now through any bank,
savings bank, or stockbroker. You may subscribe by cash or by
instalments. * Not exceeding the amount of tax otherwise payable.
3V*% COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
issued in 1941 and 1942, mature and become due for
repayment or CONVERSION on NOVEMBER 15, 1957
Holders of these securities are invited to convert them, through any
bank, savings hank, or stockbroker, into new Bonds or Inscribed
Stock on the terms offered for the Cash Loan now open.
YOU MAY SELECT FROM
SECURITIES 1
Issued at par
Maturing
February 15,
1967
February 15,
1973
Minimum Subscription, £lO i
4% SECURITIES
Issued at £99/-/- per cent yielding
7
£4-8-6%
(Approx.)
per
annum
Maturing
May 15, 1960
Minimum Subscription £lOO
INVEST NOW IN THE NEW
Commonwealth
Security Loan
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN ALL STATES
Authorised by the Gommonwealth Treasury,
305L2.113
and realism of “On the Water-
front,” it still has some
strength.
The big standover boys order
a bumping-off and, despite
official lethargy, the big boys’
powerful friends and able
attorney, and the reluctance of
the terror-stricken widow to
testify,' a young, tenacious
prosecutor (Richard Egan) beats
the long odds and brings off a
conviction against them all for
first-degree murder. The court-
scenes carry more conviction
and authority than most Holly-
wood ventures into this sphere.
Egan and Jan Sterling, as
the widow, are the most
impressive in a generally com-
petent cast. At Sydney Capitol.
. *** >*♦
‘‘The Spirit of St. Louis”
Charles Lindbergh’s historic
solo flight across the Atlantic in
a single-engined plane is a diffi-
cult subject for filming, and the
hard-pressed director has been
forced to rely on endless flash-
backs to often-trivial incidents
to spin things out in the long
flight-sequence. James Stewart,
rejuvenated by the make-up
man for the role, does his best,
but it is hardly enough.
* ❖ ❖
“Beau James”
This whitewashed and
Technicolored biography of
James J. Walker, New York’s
Tammany mayor, has Bob
Hope in the role of that
flamboyant character, and
while Mr. Hope is expertly
efficient with the retort comical,
his efforts to be solemn
unfortunately often seem
almost as funny as his
humorous sallies.
The story, which might have
concerned itself with many
more interesting things, quickly
settles down to a sentimental
romance about how the mayor
went through with a showgirl
(Vera Miles) as a relief from
an unsatisfactory marriage—•
“You may have taken the city,
but you didn’t take the bed-
room,” his wife (Alexis Smith)
•tells him after his election.
Paul Douglas figures as a
political “realist.” A Para-
mount film.
❖ *>
“House of Secrets”
Unlikely tale of a young
mariner (Michael Craig), who,
because of his resemblance to
a top cropk, is co-opted by the
cops to help them break-up a
gang of forgers. The crooks
are overdrawn, but there is
some compensation in fine
shots of Paris and Marseilles.


Full I time Service
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated hi Victoria In 1871
TR58.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, lias, since its inception in 1878, given the whole of its time to
the provision of prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor,
Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
★ It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
"A It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
A It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
★ Its charges are fixed and moderate.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reservet, t972,t12.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.6., D. 5.0., M.C.. V.D. (Chairmen); W. Sydney Jones;
4. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., Y.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.e., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan 6. Potter.
The WILDCAL
COLUMN
Marrickville Holdings, Ltd.
"ITAKING the first alteration to paid
■***• capital since its formation six years
ago, Marrickville Holdings, Ltd., is
currently offering shareholders 291,375 £1
ords. at par in the proportion of three
new shares for every 10 already held.
Proceeds of the issue will go towards
meeting the cost of new factories in
Melbourne and Adelaide and moderni-
sation of premises in Sydney. The co.
borrowed £400,000 on p.c. notes late
in 1955.
Maintenance of the present 15 p.c. ord.
div.-rate should be a simple matter,
earnings in each of the last five years
exceeding—by a comfortable margin—
the amount required to service the larger
capital. The f.-p. £1 ords. changed hands
at 605., ex rights, last week, to return
5 p.c. on a 15 p.c. basis, the rights bring-
ing around 395.
Sharemarket interest in the co.’s 49-
year-old business goes back to 1951,
when Marrickville Holdings was formed
in Sydney to acquire the ord. capitals of
Marrickville Margarine Pty. and Nut
Foods Pty. The £365,000 paid capital of
these subsidiaries cost the holding co.
£821,250 in scrip, the public putting-up
£150,000 in share-capital and £75,000 in
premiums, while the A.M.P. Society
exchanged a £200,000 pref. interest in
Marrickville Margarine for 200,000 £1 4|
p.c. redeemable prefs. in the new co.
Net profit jumped by 73 p.c. in the
1952-53 term, and steady, but somewhat
less spectacular, progress has been
reported in subsequent terms, As a result
the gradual stepping-up of the div.-rate
(from 8 p.c. in 1951 to 15 p.c. in 1955)
has not prevented a large slice of the
earnings being reinvested in new plant and
premises, the book-value of fixed assets
rising by over 130 p.c. since 1953.
The group’s products, many of which
carry the well-known Eta brand, include
table- and cooking-margarine, edible- and
industrial-oils, nut-products and grocery
lines. Local and export markets are
supplied from the main Marrickville
(Sydney) works and from branch plants
in all mainland capitals and Newcastle.
A 50 p.c. interest is held in Eta Foods,
Ltd., of New Zealand, which manufac-
tures and distributes various nut lines
in the Dominion.
The turnover of subsidiary cos. is not
disclosed, but Australian production of
table-margarine (one of Marrickville
Margarine’s main products) has risen
sharply since war-time shortages stimu-
lated demand, total output for the year
to June 30 last increasing by 38.1 p.c.:
Australian Production of Margarine.*
r— Tons ,
Year. Table. Others.
1938-39 3,325 13,938
1948-49 8,529 20,789
1953-54 .. ... .. 9,762 22,294
1955- 11,853 19,394
1956- 16,380 19,961
* Source: Commonwealth Statistician.
Production of table-margarine for sale on
the Australian market is restricted by
legislation in force in the various States,
the quota allocated to N.S.W. producers
being increased to 9000 tons p.a. early
last year.
Judging by the tax-provision, the
earnings claimed by the co. last term were
certainly not overstated, £327,753 (up
£78,168) being set aside for taxation and
£140,406 (up £12,526) for depreciation
before arriving at a consolidated net
profit of £297,458, £36,808 better than the
previous term's effort:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends- To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. ——serves, serves.*
4J p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Share-premiums, £75,000 .. .. 533,625
Preliminary expenses, £11,194 .. 522,431
’51.. 98,380 9500 8 p.c. = 58,819 30,061 552,492
Profit sale shares', £1968 .. .. 554,460
’52..134,015 9500 10 p.c. = 97,125 27,390 581,850
’53..232,734 9500 124 .. ~121,406 101,828 683.678
’54..243,862 9500 13i „ ~131,119 103,243 786,921
’55..258,718 9500 15 „ ~145,688 103,530 890,451
’56..260,650 9500 15 „ ~145,688 105,462 995,913
’57..297,458 9500 15 „ ~145,688 142,270 1,138,183
* Subject to intangibles, £456,250 at 30/6/’57.
The pref. div. took £9500, the balance
representing a return of 29.6 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 25.8, 25.6,' 24.1 and
22.9 p.c. back to 1953. Almost 48 p.c.
of the earnings was retained in the
business.
Plants in Sydney, Brisbane and New-
castle were extended during the term but,
while capital-outlay exceeded £300,000,
depreciation left the net addition to fixed
assets at £165,822. Freeholds are shown
mainly at 1950 valuation or subsequent
cost, less depreciation:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 3 956. 1957.
Pref £200,000 £200,000 £200.000
Old. .. .. 971,250 971,250 971,250
Reserves .. .. 890,451 995,913 1,138,183
Notes .. .. 400,000 400,000
Overdraft .. .. 473,231 187,352 369,313
Creditors, etc. .. 417,548 434,062 522,912
Tax provision .. 225,509 278,409 356,133
Final divs. .. 72,844 72,844 72,844
£3,250,833 £3,539,830 £4,030,635
Land, buildings .. 794,280 833,479 910,874
Plant .. .. 498,533 657,388 745,815
Investments .. 80,347 86,560 168,415
Stock .. .. 1,070,747 1,062,154 1,170,460
Debtors .. .. 349,052 442,284 576,849
Cash .. .. 1,624 1,715' 1,972
Intangibles .. 456,250 456,250 456,250
£3,250,833 £3,539,830 £4,030,635
The co. drew on the bank for an extra
£181,961 and increased its indebtedness
to creditors by £88,850, putting an addi-
tional £108,306 into stocks and £134,565
into book-debts. The investment in other
cos. (mainly the N.Z. associate) was
increased by £81,855. Although ear-
marked for capital-projects, proceeds of
the new share-issue should enable some
improvement in working-capital, down
£105,407 to £428,079 over the term.
The board describes turnover in the
first quarter of the current term as “very
satisfactory,” with further improvement
expected to follow the enlargement of
plant-capacity at various centres.
Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltcf.
'THERE will be quite a few new share-
holders looking for dividend-cheques *
from the Cyclone Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
next year, but, by arranging the purchase
of K-M Steel Products, Ltd., last term
so that approximately two-thirds of the
consideration was in cash (financing the


cash side of the deal \frith borrowed 8 p.c.
money), the co. need do no more than
maintain its own earnings and those of
its newly-acquired subsidiary to make the
sixth successive 15 p.c. div. a practical
proposition.
Cyclone paid £1,987,000 (£765,000 in
scrip) for the £510,000 ord. capital of
K-M at the close of last term shortly
after iFhad exchanged 63,000 10s. ords.
and £6300 in cash for Wm. C. Lynch
Holdings, Ltd., of Newcastle. The bid
for K-M followed rejection of an offer
for the share-capital of A.R.C. Industries,
Ltd.
The Cyclone organisation has been
established in Australia for almost 60
years, the present parent co. acquiring
public status in 1947. Originally
interested in the manufacture of agricul-
tural fencing, the group now claims that
it will fabricate anything that can be
made from tubular steel and wire. Among
the better-known lines turned out by the
parent co. are chainwire and wrought-
iron fences and gates, fiywire, conveyor-
belts and prefabricated farm-buildings
and -fittings, while the subsidiaries
produce tubular-steel scaffolding, forged
hand-tools, car-axles, etc., and, with the
acquisition of K-M, steel and aluminium
window-frames and a variety of sheet-
metal products.
K-M operates its own steel-rolling mill,
handling 10,000 tons of steel annually,
the group’s 20 factories and branches
including two forging-plants. Over half
of the manufacturing-units are in Victoria
or N.S.W., but production is carried out
in all mainland States, with erection of
a factory at Launceston scheduled to
commence early next year.
Encouraged by a strong demand for
many for its established lines and the
good reception accorded to a number of
new products, Cyclone has put a lot of
fresh capital into the business over the
last eight years, as well as increasing
manufacturing potential by the absorp-
tion of existing concerns. Beginning its
career as a public co. with a paid capital
of £306,261, the parent ended last term
with a total of £2,933,663 on the share-
register.
Cash-issues in 1952 (one-for-four),
1954 (one-for-three) and 1956 (one-for-
four) all carried premiums of 100 p.c.,
portion of the premiums collected being
returned as bonus-shares in 1952 (one-
for-four) and 1954 (one-for-five). Pref.
capital reached its present level, £650,000,
with the issue of 500,000 £l6 p.c. prefs.
in 1955, £1,000,000 being raised on 8 p.c.
notes in June and July of this year.
The full effect of expenditure over
the past few years has yet to be felt,
and, while benefiting from the heavy
outlay on plant and premises, earnings
haven’t increased at the same brisk rate
as share-capital. Last term’s net profit,
after deducting pre-acquisition profits
(£249,013), the proportion due to outside
shareholders aqd pref. charges, slipped to
17.1 p.c. of average ord. capital, compared
with 21.6, 38 and 39.9 p.c. in the three
preceding terms:
Parent Co.
Dividends- To Re- Re-
June, Profit, 'Pref. Ord. serves. serves.
' 5 p.c. 15 ji.c.
£ £> £ £>
1953. .261,447 7,500 112,500 141,447 873,667
Loss sale assets, £1079 .. .. 872,588
Goodwill written-off, £5165 .. 867,423
1954. .286,192 7,500 112,500 166,192 1,033,615
Share-premiums, £298,512 .. .. 1,332,127
Reserves capitaiised, £150,000 .. 1,182,127
Loss sale assets, £374 .. .. 1,181,753
Share-issue expenses, £2OOO ..- 1,179,753
1955. .284,998 8,750 151,875 124,373 1,304,126
Parent and Subsidiaries,
Added on consolidation, after deduct-
ing intangibles ( £21,712),
£210,805 1,514,931
Share-premiums, £137,139 .. 1,652,070
Profit sale assets, £18,196 .. .. 1,670,266
Tax overprovided, £37,918 .. .. 1,708,184
Share-issue expenses, £29,732 .. 1,678,452
To staff fund, £5OOO 1,673,452
Add adjustment minority interest,
£6305 .. 1,679,757
Add excess par over cost shares in
subsidiary, £60 ( 112 .. .. 1,739,869
Less unexplained reduction, £19,327 1,720,542
6 p.c.
1856. .293,895 38,591 182,358 72,946 1,793,488
Less excess cost over par shares in
subsidiaries, £353,060 ~ .. 1,440,428
Loss sale assets, £9460 .. .. 1,430,968
Share-issue expenses, £36,873 .. 1,394.095
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. .. 1,389,095
Share-premiums, £155,564 .. .. 1,544,659
Add adjustment minority interest,
£40,095 .. .. .. .. 1,584.754
Tax overprovided, £16,908 .. 1,601,662
Unexplained reduction, £ll,BlO .. 1,589,852
1957. .298,402*39,000 227,453 31,949 1,621,801
* Less pre-acquisition profits, deducted from the
excess of cost over par value of shares in sub-
sidiaries.
Turnover for the year (to June 30 last)
was, once again, a record, but intense
competition pushed up selling-costs, and
losses (amounting to £39,963) were
incurred by two subsidiaries, limiting
group-profit to £298,402 (up £4507). Pro-
vision for taxation, covering the liability
on normal and pre-acquisition earnings,
was £150,101 higher at £452,477. Calcu-
lated on the same basis as last term,
pref. and ord. divs. on capital as it stood
at June 30 would call for £381,549, or
roughly £llO,OOO less than the amount
earned by the co. and its subsidiaries,
after allowing for note-interest.
A new plant at Townsville (Q.) went
into production during the term, and the
first stage of a big (£750,000) project at
Granville (Sydney) was completed, but,
although the parent leant heavily on the
bank during the year, increasing its over-
draft by £742,968, the K-M purchase
was responsible for most of the major
balance-sheet movements. A final call on
scrip issued in the 1956 term brought in
£152,295 and a like amount of premiums:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. 1956. 1357.
Pref £150.000 £650,000 £650,000
Ord 1,198.512 1,383,731 2,283,663
Reserves .. .. 1,514,931 1,793,488 1,621,801
Minority interest.. 327,786 331,329 458,820
Mortgage, etc. .. 290,825 356,900 563,829
Notes . . 274,825
Deposits, etc. .. 15,302 30.267 25,365
Overdraft .. .. 1,050,798 1,111,922 1,608,663
Creditors* 462,803 505,598 671,622
Tax provision .. 266,757 302,376 453.330
Final divs. .. 89,375 111,858 136,113
£5,367,089 £6,577,469 £8,748,031
Land, buildings .. 1,279,510 1,561,510 2,659.782
Plant, etc. .. 1,454,474 1,966,477 2,267,676
Stock .. .. 1,599,034 2,026,579 2.299.605
Debtors- . . .. 990,596 1,022,203 1,294.757
Cash, etc. .. 43,475 700 226,211
£5,367,089 £6,577,469 £8,748,031
Completion of the £1,000,000 note-issue
early in the current term will have
brought outside money up to the level of
shareholders’ funds, but, at the same
time, it should have improved the ratio
of current liabilities to current assets,
1 to 1.3 at balance date.
Mainly as a result of the premium paid
for shares in subsidiary cos., reserves fell
by £171,687 over the year, consolidated
accounts showing a net tangible asset
backing of 14s. 3d. for each f.-p. 10s. ord.,
the scrip at 30s. returning 5 p.c. from a
15 p.c. div. Shares issued to K-M share-
holders don’t participate in the final div.
to be paid later this month and sold
recently at 265. 9d.
Bruce Pie Industries, Ltd.
FLUCTUATIONS in wool prices,
increasing labor costs, unseasonable
weather and competition from imported
goods have all added to the difficulties of
Australian textile - manufacturers at
various times over the last seven or eight
years, so, with the threat of increased
competition from Japanese textiles
inherent in the recent trade-agreement
with Japan, it is not surprising that some
of the strongest criticism of the pact has
come from the textile-industry.
The extent to which Japanese competi-
tion will affect local (and U.K.) manu-
facturers is, as yet, uncertain, but while
it appears obvious that imports from
Japan will obtain a larger share of the
market in the current financial year,
forecasts of overwhelming competition
seem unduly pessimistic, having regard
to both the continuing need for import-
restrictions and the safeguards embodied
in the agreement itself.
At September 30 last the Brisbane-
based textile- and bedding-manufacturer,
Bruce Pie Industries, Ltd., had enough
orders for the coming winter season to
keep the co. busy “for many months,”
according to the chairman, Bruce Pie.
However, it has been necessary to reduce,
from two to one-and-a-half, the number
of shifts worked at the spinning plant.
Formed in 1946, Bruce Pie Industries
included among its aims the development
of the spinning, knitting and dyeing
industries in Queensland, where, at that
time, retailers were dependent on
southern manufacturers for the bulk of
their textile requirements. Although most
of its output is sold in Queensland, the
big worsted-spinning and knitting factory
erected at Kedron (near Brisbane) in
1948 supplies customers in all States.
The co. also turns out inner-spring
mattresses, etc., and padding for use by
the upholstery-trade.
Paid capital, £675,000, is all in f.-p. £1
ords., the last issue being at par on a
one-for-two basis in 1951. The div.-rate
has been steady at 6 p.c. since 1955 to
give an average of 5 p.c. over the past
10 years.
Keen competition was experienced by
all sections of the business last term (to
June 30), but turnover improved for the
fourth consecutive year, the higher output
being reflected by a 20 p.c. increase in
net profit. Gross earnings were £22,401
higher at £234,707, an -extra £9264 in
administrative expenses and larger pro-
visions for tax (up £5OOO at £29,500) and
depreciation (up £775 at £10,788), leaving


NORTH BROKEN HILL LIMITED
(Incorporated in the State of Victoria)
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Mr. M. H. Itaillieu said:
On behalf of the Board, I
present to you the Accounts of the
Company and the Directors’
Report for the year ended 30th
June, 1957.
As a copy of those documents
has been forwarded to each Stock-
holder, I propose, with your con-
currence, to take them as read.
FINANCIAL
The net profit for the year was
£2,119.896 compared with £2,025,297
for the previous year.
Although the average prices
received for lead and zinc were
slightly lower than in the pre-
vious financial year there Avas,
nevertheless, an increase in income
from Mine Production.
This was the result of the higher
output from the Mine.
The rise in Mine Expenditure of
£193,958 was to a considerable
extent related to the greater ton-
nage of ore mined, the increase in
the basic wage and higher costs
for timber and general supplies.
In the Profit and Loss Account
the Provision for Taxation is
lower compared with that of the
previous year because of the reduc-
tion in the rate of Company Tax
and the Company’s lower taxable
income.
There was a satisfactory rise in
the Company's income from
General Investments.
INVESTMENTS
The Broken Hill Associated
•Smelters Pty. Ltd., which treats
the whole of our output of lead
concentrates, had another satis-
factory year, although owing to
prevailing conditions its profit was
slightly lower than for the
previous year.
One of the most important of
our inA’estments is our holding in
the capital of Metal Manufactures
Limited, which, in turn, holds all
the issued shares of Austral
Bronze Company Limited, and
approximately a half interest in
three cable making Companies.
This Group has factories in three
States, and is the major supplier
in Australia of many copper, brass
and aluminium products which are
essential in the manufacturing,
poAver supply and communications
field. ,
In common with those of other
Companies affected by the. availa-
bility of money for Public Works,
and Housing, the Group’s sales
were somewhat lower in the past
year However, Metal Manufac-
tures maintained its dividend, and
the future of the Industry should
be reasonably assured.
The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Company of Australia
Pty. Ltd., in which we hold a
40% interest, is continuing its pro-
gramme of plant expansion and
modernisation, and has lodged an
order Avith the Lurgi organisation
for a blast roasting plant. This
will greatly increase its smelter
capacity at Port Kembla.
/ The trading results of that Com-
pany were not as good as in the
previous year. This was largely
due' to the steep decline in copper
prices.
Following the weakening of
copper prices the Tariff Board con-
ducted an enquiry in May and June
this year into the question of the
assistance to be granted to Aus-
tralian producers of copper in
ingot or similar forms. The find-
ings of the Tariff Board and the
decision of the Commonwealth
Government in this matter will be
of great importance to the copper
mining and refining industries.
On 26th August, 1957, a furnace
failure in the refinery caused very
heavy damage but fortunately no
employee was injured. Thanks to
the generous assistance of other
industries and various Contractors,
the refinery was able to resume
full scale casting within six weeks.
I am pleased to report that Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corporation
Pty. Ltd. had a successful year,
although the turnover did not
, reach the previous year's figures.
Our other principal investments
are in Public Companies, whose
reports and accounts are published,
and I, therefore, do not propose
to comment on their activities.
MINE
You will have read in the Report
that, for the year ended 30th June,
the tonnage of ore extracted from
all sections of the mine w r as
393,354, as compared with 380,065
for the previous year.
Our ore reserves of 4,846.000 tons
at the 30th June were 37,000 tons
lower than at June 1956. This was
due to a reduction of 52,000 tons
in the British-Junction Sections
which, however, was offset to some
extent by an increase of 15,000
tons in the reserves in the North
Section.
A total of 15,861 feet of diamond
drilling Avas completed in the
North Section of the mine, and
much of this was carried out
below- the 3,370 feet level. This
work has supplied further infor-
mation which is valuable in the
routine operation of opening up
the Southern Orebody, but has not
added greatly to our knowledge of
the orebody below the 4,000 feet
horizon.
Further deep drilling will be
limited until suitable drilling
sites are made available by the
opening up of lower levels from
No. 3 Shaft.
On the Company's leases to the
north of the present workings, a
geological survey programme is
being vigorously pursued.
During the year, the sinking of
No. 3 Shaft was continued to the
3.370 feet level, and plats at the
3.070 and 3,220 feet levels were
- excavated. Since the end of the
year, the sinking has been
advanced an additional 96 feet.
The rate of sinking -of No. 3
Shaft has been hampered by
faulted ground- and by the neces-
sity for excavating plats at various
levels. This year, it is expected
that, for the same reasons, sinking
will be relatively slow.
Further progress has been made
wdfcb the No. 3 Shaft surface pro-
gramme. Work carried out in-
cluded the fabrication of a 150 ton
ore bin for the Breaker Station,
the installation of an electric w-inch
for lowering heavy pipes and
cables down the shaft, and the
continuation of various electrical,
air and water Services.
When addressing you last year,
I mentioned that no decision had
then been reached regarding pos-
sible alterations to the ore treat-
ment plant.
After considering the various
factors involved, it has been de-
cided to convert the existing mill
to an all flotation circuit.
The decision to change our con-
centrating methods to all flotation
only, was very much influenced by
the fact that nearly all the oxi-
dised ore has been mined from the
upper levels and that, therefore,
the gravity section of the mill is
no longer necessary. An amount
has been included in the sum
appropriated for New Plant and
Mine Development to meet the
cost of the conversion and any
new plant required.
You will have noted from the
Report that milling operations
proceeded satisfactorily through-
out the year, and that there was a
slight improvement in the per-
centage recovery of both lead and
zinc.
The grade of ore has shown
some slight decline, but it is ex-
pected that it will stabilise around
the present figure.
This year, two of our senior
Mine Executives went overseas to
study the latest developments in
mine operations and engineering.
The countries visited included
England, the United States of
America. Canada and South Africa.
These officers represented the Com-
pany- at the 6th Commonwealth
Mining and Metallurgical Congress
which was held in Canada during
September and October.
Following the Company’s policy,
various welfare and community
organisations were granted finan-
cial assistance during the past
twelve months.
The new premises of the Mines
Dental Clinic were opened on 23rd
March, 1957. Both Staff and
patients appreciate the many
modern features and amenities
which have been provided in the
building.
During the year, the Broken
Hill Mining Companies decided to
build a new Headquarters for the
Mining Managers’ Association, its
present rented premises being
most unsatisfactory. It is expected
that the new Building will be
available for occupation early in
the New Year.
GENERAL
During the year under review,
our lead and zinc concentrates
were, as usual, sold to The Broken
Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
and the Electrolytic Zinc Com-
pany of Australasia Ltd. respec-
tively. Of the .export lead sales
by the Smelters during the year,
36% was sold to the United King-
dom and 49%‘t0 the United States
of America. The average realised
price for overseas sales of lead wms
£AI3I Os. Bd. per ton compared
with £AI3I 19s. sd. for the
previous year. In the case of zinc,
by far the greater portion of the
metal derived from our concen-
trates Avas sold in Australia. Most
of the balance w r as sold to the
United Kingdom and India.
Our silver production for the
year, less Australian requirements,
was sold through the United King-
dom market. The average price
received for all sales was (A)
Bs. 2d. per ounce: for the previous
year it was (A) Bs. Id. per ounce.
Because of lower prices for lead
and zinc, results so far
present year are poor in compari-
son with those of recent years and,
unless there is a marked improve-
ment in the prices for our metals
in the next few months, we must
expect only a relatively small
profit from our mining activities
at Broken Hill.
Our investment income for this
year, which w r ill be largely derived
from Companies’ earnings during
1956-57 should' again be satisfac-
tory, although somewhat lower
than for the year under review.
As you know, the fall in metal
prices to their present levels
began in the second quarter of
this calendar year and today,
prices of lead and zinc- on the
London Metal Exchange are lower
by £A3B 3s. 4d. per ton and
£A33 Bs. 9d. respectively than at
this time last year.
For some years after World
War 11, industrial demand
exceeded the production of new
metal for both lead and zinc.
However, despite increasing world
demand, production bad over-
hauled consumption by 1949.
Although since then, production
and consumption of both metals
has continued to increase, their
supply has been consistently
greater than world industrial
requirements—a fact to which I
referred at a previous annual
Meeting.
From 1948 until early this year,
very large quantities of both lead
and zinc were acquired for their
national stockpiles by the Govern-
ments of the United States of
America and the United Kingdom.
During that time, stockpiling had
the total effect of absorbing such
new lead and zinc production as
exceeded industrial requirements.
Of course, in so doing, stock-
piling also had the effect of
stimulating production.
Several factors have contributed
to the present weakness of the
metal market. The United King-
dom Government again became a
seller of its stocks.
Although this policy was
announced in 1956, and the sell-
ing of a limited amount of lead
to consumers began in March
last, the lirst break in metal
prices did not occur until May,
following the announcements in
the-United States that purchasing
lor stockpile would end “in a
matter of months” and that the
barter programme of the United
States Department of Agriculture
had been suspended. Sub-
sequently, the barter programme
was resumed on a restricted
basis.
Consequent upon the fall in
prices following these changes
in policy, and following pressure
from the American lead-zinc
industry, proposals were made by
the Administration of the United
States Government and accepted
by the Senate Finance Committee
for very substantial increases in
the protection for lead and zinc
metals and concentrates produced
in the United States. The proposals
themselves and their apparently
favourable reception. had a
further depressing effect on the
London Metal Exchange prices,
reducing them substantially
beJow T parity with American
prices which were, in turn, forced
down. So far, no definite policy
has been determined. However, I
think it is correct to. say that the
proposals under consideration, if
adopted, would result in a ver.v
great and disproportionate
increase in the cost of lead and
zinc to United States consumers,
at the same time giving protection
to an industry which supplies
less than one half of that
country’s annual requirements of
lead and zinc, and only part of
which, in any case, needs
protection. Lead and Zinc prices
were further depressed when, on
the 11th October, the United King-
dom Government announced plans
for the selling of additional lead
from its stocks. Although the
proposed sale is in accordance
with the United Kingdom Govern-
ment’s policy of realising its
stocks and could be regarded as
being consistent with its measures
to combat inflation and preserve
the value of the pound, it has
come at an unfortunate time for
the lead-zinc industry.
Thus, for reasons I have
indicated, more lead and zinc is
being produced than is being con-
sumed. We know that, in due
course, supply and demand will be
equated, and, already, there have
been cutbacks in production by a
number of mines in various
countries. At present metal prices
this process is likely to continue.
I shall not attempt to predict
the course of metal prices in the
months or years ahead.
Industrial demand for lead and
zinc is still at a high level. In
fact, for both metals, industrial
consumption in 1957 is estimated
as likely to be much the same as'
in 1956: and it should be noted
that the rates of consumption for
the latter year were second only
to those for 1955 which were an all
time record.
If world trade and industrial
activity continue to expand, we
are, as I said last year, entitled
to be optimistic about the long-
term future of our Industry.
STAFF
The Company is fortunate
indeed in having such fine Staff
who so ably and enthusiastically
handle the many problems which
arise from year to year.
They are to be congratulated on
their contribution towards the
results of the jtast year, and, on
behalf of the Board, I would like
to thank them.


i
s*
%
I
(or short term £5 per year)
GENERAL CREDITS
Offers First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange. Cumulative
stock carrying 6|% compounded on yearly rests with
currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus available all
branches of The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited.
Members of Stock Exchanges and Offices of the company.
SHORT TERM
12 months..
9 months . 4J
6 months . 4 U
3 months. 3}
7706
DIRECTORS :
Eric Hughes (Chairman), V. H. Stanley-Low (Mat**
aging), J. F. Hughes, J. M, Ford, F. G. Menziee,
C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
Bankers for the issue:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
This is not a Prospect u> and does not constitute an
invitation to subscribe for the debenture stock
mentioned herein.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
net profit £8460 stronger at
£49,276:
Re-
June, Profit. / —Dividends —serves.*
£, £ £
1952. .42,443 5 p.c. = 33,750 29,793
Profit sale fixed assets,
£10,917 40,710
1953.. 3 p.c. = 20,250 48,287
Profit sale fixed assets, £369 48,656
1954.. 51.067 5 p.c. = 33,750 65,973
Profit sale assets, £9167 . . 75,140
1955. .55,352' 6 p.c. = 40,500 89,992
Profit sale freehold, £4835 .. 94,827
1956.. 40.816 6 p.c. = 40,500 95,143
Profit sale freehold, £3142 98,285
1957.. 49.276 6 p.c. = 40,500 107,061
* After deducting intangibles, written
off 1954.
Although still slender, "the
margin between dividend and
total earnings improved slightly,
net profit representing 7.3 p.c.
on ord. capital as against a
shade over 6 p.c. in the pre-
ceding term and 8.2, 7.5 and
4.1 p.c. back to 1953. The
profitable sale of freehold
property at Kedron brought the
net addition to reserves up to
£11,918. A wholly-owned
subsidiary, Queensland Textiles
Pty., paid a div. of £7500 to the
parent out of a net profit of
£8978.
Stocks, mainly of raw
materials (up £117,311, or
26 p.c.), tended to accumulate
towards the end of the term,
following a fall in the demand
for knitted outerwear, and as
a result the co. finished the
vear owing the bank a further
£65,384:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £675,000 £675,000
Reserves v 95,143 107,061
Overdraft. .. 73,075 138,459
Sundry creditors* 191,617 213,351
Final div. .. 40,500 40,500
£1,075,335 £1,174,371
Freeholds, etc.... 193,689 193,195
Plant .. .. 151,155 148,227
Shares subsid. .. 116,142 116,142
Stocks .. .. 447,733 565,044
Debtors », 165,995 151,763
Cash .. 621
£1,075,335 £1,174,371
* Includes provision lor taxation, etc.
The amount shown against
creditors, tax-provision, etc.,
increased by £21,734, while
book-debts fell by £14,233.
Playing safe, the sharemarket
has marked down scrip in most
textile concerns in recent
months and, with an eye on
the modest earning-rate and
limited reserves of the co.,
prices the f.-p. £1 ords. at a
particularly cautiods 11s. 9d.
to return £lO 4s. 3d. per cent,
from a 6 p.c. div.
J. & A. Brown & Abermain
profit shown by J. & A.
Brown & Abermain
Seaham Collieries, Ltd., was
put by the board at £169,678
for the year to June 30, against
£163,301 in the previous term.
“Expenditure for the year on
necessary plant and develop-
ment” amounted to £655,314,
which was debited to reserve,
and the balance of £70,133 was
written - back to p. and 1.
account.
A sum of £430,000 was then
charged to p. and 1. as an
appropriation towards tax-
free capital-expenditure on
plant and development during
the current term. In the
preceding term £365,304 was
charged.
Over the past six years
appropriations of this kind"
have aggregated £2,225,000
net (allowing for last year’s
writing-back). This amount
has been spent on “plant and
development of mining
property,” and written-off.
The annual dividend has
been 8 p.c. since 1952, whilst
visible reserves have shown
little increase. It has paid the
co. to take advantage of the
taxation concession available
to coalmining cos. developing
and mechanising their collieries,
and J. & A. Brown’s reserves
are largely in the written-down
book-value of mine properties
and in the increasing earning-
potential.
The sharemarket, in sending
the £1 shares up from
18s. to 255. {ex div. 245. 6d.),
apparently expected something
special this year. The annual
meeting is to be held on
November 14 much later
than usual.
“Papinaipi”
[From L. Owen]
YULE ISLAND, off the
-*■ south-west coast of Papua,
is the headquarters for Papuan
Apinaipi field-operations. It is
also, probably, the most
intensely geologically-studied
square-mile or so of out-
cropping rock in Papua.
Since the turn of the century,
it and the adjoining mainland
have been the subject of
published and unpublished
reports of varying merit, and,
for the last two years, the
P.A.P. staff have augmented
this mass of information with
examinations specifically
designed for the location of
oilwells.
With this spate of data, it is
surprising that the Kaufana
fold should have been singled-
out for the first test, particu-
larly as the area was that where
the first —and last—trial bore
was put down,by Australasian
Petroleum with the purpose of
evaluating the oil potentialities
of the district.


all
LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
/
Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
OUTPUT
mm
CLEANING
HOLE AND
COVER
INPUT
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO—CENTRE FILLING ONLY
StLO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now available to fill
and empty Lysaght silos. Features include:
• Unique centre-drive unit (patent pending
No. 22636/S6) as shown in insert below.
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts com *
pletely encased.
• Adjustable chut*
tube.
SILO
ERECTED
1,000 2,000 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 8,500
(squat)
Without Earth Ring Vl6lO V 2012 V24T2 V 2412 V 2814 V 3214 V 3414
With Earth Ring .. V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 Y 2814 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
IYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
A39AC
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
/"‘FATHERING clouds over
N.Z.’s export markets are
giving warning of a possible
change in economic weather.
Though most export prices
are down, the effects of the
British Government’s defla-
tionary measures have hardly
yet been felt. They could be
quite strongly adverse for all
N.Z.’s primary produce, includ-
ing meat.
With export income at least
under threat, it seems plain
that, as soon as the election is
over, some more drastic action
will have to be taken to check
soaring private imports and
prevent the dangerous deple-
tion of overseas reserves.
Exchange Deficit
In the 12 months to the end
of September, though export
receipts increased by £l3
million, or 4.8 per cent., to
£291 million, overseas exchange
transactions showed a deficit of
£4 million, against £3.6 million
the previous year, and net
overseas assets of the banking
system slipped from £B7 to
£B3 million.
Main reason was a £l7-
million, or 7.3 per cent.,
increase in private imports at
£253 million.
Actually the increase has
been steeper than these figures
indicate.
It is, of course, more than
likely that a substantial part of
the increase in the last few
months is a result of importers’
buying heavily in advance in
case of a change of Govern-
ment and a return to Labor's
import-licensing policy. This
factor will be automatically
eliminated by the election.
Nevertheless, something
more than the recent increase
in the trading-banks’. reserve-
ratios will probably be needed
to bring expenditure on
imports down into line with
income.
The Government had planned
to raise a £5-million loan in
London this year, and that
would have helped out, but the
recent big increase in U.K.
interest-rates has now made
that course unlikely.
Commenting on the high level
of imports, Finance Minister
Watts said that the position,
though not critical, did not
justify any relaxation in
control over bank-advances or
Government expenditure.
“Thinking Big”
At the same time, however,
Prime Minister Holyoake was
telling the Auckland Rotary
Club that N.Z. must “think
big.”
In the next four years, he
said, the country would spend
£lOOO million on capital-
development. (This is nearly as
much as has been spent in the
last eight years.) Biggest
investor, Mr. Holyoake said,
would be private enterprise,
which would spend £550
million, “a very conservative
figure.” The Government would
spend about £370 million, local
bodies about £l3O million.
There can be no doubt about
the need for this development-
work. Population is rising by
50,000 a year, and by 1962 will
have reached 2,438,500.
But, if capital-investment is
to rise, while, as seems likely,
export income falls, it is plain
that the consumer spending
must be curtailed. A greater
part of current production must
be set aside for future consump-
tion and to provide the means
to step up future production.
The deputy Government
Statistician, Mr. J. V. T. Baker,
summed -up the position
recently when he said: “We
may gain or lose on the terms
of trade ; we may build up or
run vdown our overseas
balances ; or we may borrow
overseas. But, in the long run,
what we need for the future
we must provide ourselves out
of current production. That is
what economic growth requires
of the people. Reluctance to
provide for this economic
growth could produce infla-
tion.”
Labor’s Gay Promises
Incidentally, the Labor
party in its election propa-
ganda has shown no recogni-
tion whatever of the need to
keep a check on spending or
of the danger of inflation if that
is not done.
rp, T a * *
The Leader of tne Opposi-
tion, Mr. Nash, has promised a
flat rebate of £lOO for all tax-
payers next February (against
the National party’s maximum
of £25). He has also promised
to increase the family benefit
from 10s. to 15s. for each
child up to the age of 16 years
and to provide for the
capitalisation of up to £lOOO of
this benefit to produce a lump-
sum toward the building of a
home or the reduction of a
mortgage. For good measure
he has promised to stabilise
prices by adjusting sub-
n p c c ssar Y-
, Mr ' N ? sh h f refus ?f so ff-
to “k "here he would get the
”°“? *° th 'f
generous promises. Presumably
a g°°<i part of it would be
borrowed from the Reserve
Bank. In other words, it would
be created out of nothing, with
no proper backing. In any
case it is pretty plain that the
result would be a big dose of
inflation, which at this time
could do irreparable harm to
the economy.


SWORDFISH WATERS
By DOUGLAS STEWART
WHAT I liked best at
Russell when 1 went
back to New Zealand
for a holiday—or next-
best to sword-fishing was
to drive alone in my father s
station-wagon over Flagstaff
Hill, where Hone Heke cut
the flagpole down and started
the War in the North, and
down the road to Tapeka:
which, at the foot of that steep
winding track, past hillsides of
yellow gorse and a gully with
cows and a creek, is most
gloriously nothing, only a bay
and a hill and a farmhouse,
most gloriously nowhere, a
solitary green footprint of the
land tramping into the quiet
waters of the Bay of Islands in
the far north of New Zealand.
What was it so alluring about
that lonely place?
It was the creek you had to
cross by the log-bridge before
you got to the farmhouse: the
pool alive with splashing and
honking Muscovy ducks with
their red wattles, a superb place
for a boy to fish in, if there
had been one- at the old farm-
house, for herring came up it
across the sands at high tide ;
even snapper sometimes, Mrs.
Wardell of the farm told me ;
and there were eels.
It was the weatherboard,
weather-worn old farmhouse,
so spacious and mysterious,
>vith unexpected rooms opening
one into another like caves,
exotic with sea-shells and stag-
horns and guns and mouldering
leather-bound books, unpruned
grapevines running green and
wild along its verandas, * wild
fruit-trees clustering around it.
A magistrate lived and died
there after he retired from the
Bench, and now his house-
keeper lived on in it alone,
Before he died, she said, this
tall, lean, powerful, woman, he
used to take his chair out into
the paddock and watch her
grub out the encroaching
gorse.
Mrs.- Wardell was haunted
by a hawk: a huge insolent
bird that sat on the hillside all
day and watched her. I saw it
there myself, strutting about
amongst the red and black
calves not a hundred yards
away as if it were one of her
domestic poultry. She said I
should shoot it for her, but of
course when it saw me with
her shotgun it sprang into the
air and was soon wheeling high
out of range over the green
ridge and the sea. A week
before, she said, that villainous
bird had taken a Muscovy duck
from the flock on the creek:
which indeed was so noble a
capture for a hawk that I was
glad I couldn’t get a shot at it.
But there was more than the
creek, the farmhouse and the
hawk to draw a fisherman to
Tapeka. There was the famous
flat rock, only to be reached at
low-water, from which, so my
father said, and so Mrs.
VVardell said too, you could
catch twenty blue-cod in an
hour.
A delectable fish, smoked as
we get it in Australia, is the
blue-cod ; still finer fresh ; and
a noble fish to catch as it comes
up slate-blue and purple, with
its fins spreading like a fan and
its great mouth gaping, from
the kelp where it loves to hide.
Even in New Zealand he is
something of a rarity, for you
do not catch him at many
places around the coast:
mostly at Nelson in dhe South
Island, I think, or away down
in the sounds of fiordland, at
the end of the world.
But where exactly was this
famous flat rock? I had no
piecise directions given me.
First I tried around to the
left of the green spur that
formed the backbone of the
Tapeka peninsula; past the
mouth of the creek and the
three dark - green Norfolk
Island pines—not often seen in
New Zealand with their
quagmires of ebony shadow
where the pigs came rooting for
our lunch-basket and the cattle
sheltered from the heat; past
the white beach where one
happy day (at a family
reunion) we swam with our
assorted children in the warm
shallow water or,, sunbaking on
the sand, watched the blue
islands dreaming in the bay and
the smoke of gorse-fires rising
over distant Waitangi; past tne
pohutukawas that would have
been a mass of crimson
blossom in the spring, hairy
with ferns and lichens and
clinging to the rocky slope with
their strong roots; past the
pools of anemones and shrimps,
and the tip of the headland
broken and washed by the
waves into islets of curious
shapes; past a gut of the cliff
littered with all the shells of
the ocean; and so, wading
through shallows or scrambling
over ribs from the great central
backbone now high and steep
overhead, to a narrow bay that
took the swirl of the waves
racing in from the open sea:
and there, ending in a clefs
where the surge burst in spray
against the ciitf, was a perilous
ledge which, by a considerable
stretch of the imagination,
might possibly have been called
a flat rock - from which you
could catch blue-cod. I caught
two small snapper from it, on
an admirable bait-casting rod
I had borrowed, and one
infinitesimal red rock-cod. The
two small snapper I left for a
thanks-offering on the veranda
of the farmhouse; but the
other little fish, because after
all I would feed on cod, I took
home and ate~for breakfast.
Though it was satisfactorily
cut off by the tide before 1 left,
and I had to climb the steep
flank of the ridge to make my
way home, that was the wrong
rock. I found the right one
eventually, or I think I did, on
the other side of the spur where
the open sea came rolling in
fine blue swells into another,
broader bay.
The flat rock lay isolated
from the mainland across a
strip of sand which would
obviously be under water at
high tide. From its sides and
seaward end, its level, limpet-
encrusted surface never more
than a couple of feet above the
ocean, it fell sharply into deep
water, clear and green and
gently heaving with the swells.
It was like fishing in some big
calm pond, a fish-pond indeed,
where all the tribes of the ocean
should have gathered to feed in
peace ; and so, no doubt, on


its good days they do. It is
surely no idle legend that the
blue-cod haunt those caverns of
weed and green water. But
all I caught before the rising
tide forced me to splash my
way to the shore was, once
again, two small snapper.
But what, after all, are fish?
If it is fishing that takes you
to a place, it is the place itself
that keeps you there and'draws
you back again. However
many fish you may catch else-
where in the teeming waters of
the Bay of Islands, and how-
ever wary the blue-cod may
happen to be the day you go
to Tapeka, it is truly a most
pleasant thing to sit all day on
a flat rock in the sun, with the
green water at your feet and the
blue water rolling in from the
horizon, and a grassy ridge
with pohutukawa-trees behind
you and, while you watch all
this with only an occasional
stimulating click of the reel to
remind you that you are sup-
posed to be fishing, no com-
pany at all except that of two
red-legged, red-billed herring-
gulls which, running ever a
little closer across the limpets
and then flying back a few
paces in alarm at their own
temerity, are thinking of steal-
ing your bait.
The whole place was so very
like New Zealand! So much
Yvhat New Zealand should be ;
so like the.lonely, warm, fishy
places I had known in boyhood
at Pihama and Opunake,
Mokau, Rapanui and Kawhia.
It was almost as good to
take the other road out of the
township, over the top where
the mossy graveyard is, to
Long Beach ; and there, wading
out into the shallows, to fish
for kahawai and snapper in the
sunset.
True, Long Beach is grossly
overpopulated. There are at
least three, perhaps four or five
houses, including one, with
narrow, sparkling windows like
a chapel, which a woman built
with her own hands out of clay,
dotted along the green covert
between the white sand and the
cliff.
Once when we swam there,
two or three other people dared
to arrive in a motor-car and
swam too. And once when
my small daughter and I were
building houses of driftwood
and stone and seaweed for the
mermaids, for whom also we
provided gardens of marram-
grass and some succulent plant
of the sandhills, we were
actually approached by a
woman who wished to speak
to us: or so we thought, for
she came nearer and nearer
over the sand, and when we
quietly moved off a hundred
yards, and started building
again for the mermaids, she
followed ; and when we moved
again, still she followed ; until
in the end we had to climb the
shoulder of a ridge into a far,
narrow inlet, most delectably
unpopulated by anything
except shells, from which,
climbing to the spur again to
watch ihe progress of the
enemy, we took the offensive
and, with alas only sticks for
rifles, shot her. Per-
haps it is just as well
that her death did not
seem noticeably to
affect her, for we
learned afterwards
that she had not been
pursuing us at all but
was gathering tiny
shells which she afterwards
would thread into necklaces to
sell to visitors.
Altogether, Long Beach was
reasonably solitary; and
round the headlands at either
end, especially at the north
where we boiled the billy
and had a family picnic,
there were those miraculous
little bays where nobody ever
£ame ; where there was noth-
ing under the sun but the ridge,
the tussocky sandhills and the
little waves washing on the
shingle.
I grew, indeed, positively to
like the company of the one
man who came to fish Long
Beach with me in the dusk;
who never spoke or even
nodded, but, obviously a
fanatical trout-fisherman far
from his proper habitat, strode
tall and severe in his waders
along the beach, flicking out
a big wet-fly, such as they use
on Taupo, into the wavelets,
where, clearly outlined against
the last of the light, you could
see the kahawai swimming. I
was after the kahawai myself
one memorable evening when,
standing well out in the water
to escape the sandflies, only to
have my bare feet gently
nibbled by the crabs —a rather
unsettling experience—I hooked
and landed (not on a fly, of
course) a fine rosy snapper;
which I presented to a lady
who appeared mysteriously out
of the dusk and said that she
had had nothing to eat in the
house, but was certain the
Lord would provide ... I
thought it prudent not to tell
her she was mistaken in my
identity.
But these—a snapper here
and an infinitesimal red rock-
cod there —were disgraceful
days for a fisherman at Russell
... where my father and I,
trying a little more seriously,
filled the dinghy with snapper
in a morning simply by rowing
a hundred yards from the
black pebbly beach of the
township; and where if you
really wanted to catch fish you
could do as well as —and
maybe better than —anywhere
else in the world.
There was, for instance, that
tremendous day chugging out
in my father’s launch, with the
whole mixed clan aboard, to
anchor just clear of the surge
of the waves as they beat back
from Red Head, when we saw
the snapper shoaling so thick
with their backs and dorsal-fins
out of the water that you could
have walked on them; and
where, though these shoaling
fish would not bite, having
some dark obligation to get to
Cape Brett as quick as they
could, everybody on the launch
was kept busy all day long
—my wife hauling up a
monstrous crayfish to flap on
(Continued on page 56)


The Aristocratic Ram
Short Story by ROGER V. CARR
UNCLE JACK, Dad and
1 were in the utility on
our way into the fort-
nightly sheep-sale.
Uncle Jack had come up to
the farm for a holiday. As he
had never been on the land
before he had already been
chased half-a-mile around a
paddock by a ram. Uncle
Jack yelled for Dad to get a
gun before he was killed, but
Dad was still leaning against a
post helpless with laughter
when my six-year-old sister
ran out and caught her pet.
Uncle Jack made out he was
only kidding. The next day the
billygoat made a run at him
and we yelled to him to get out
of the way, but he thought we
were kidding him and stayed
there. The billy knocked him
flat.
The idea of coming into
town with us appealed to him,
even if it was only to see more
sheep. He reckoned it’d be
good to see a bit of life after
his week in the bush.
There was a Polwarth stud-
ram for sale that Dad said we
needed for our place.
“Reckon I’ll go to five-
hundred for him,” Dad said
as we drove along.
“Strike!” exclaimed Uncle
Jack. “A man could get a
deposit on a pub for that.”
“1 really mean it, Jack,” said
Dad ; “we could' have a well-
known stud in years to come. I
won’t get a chance like this
again in a hurry.”
“Hit him, Ted!” yelled
Uncle Jack to Dad as a rabbit
ran in .front of the ute., but
Dad just drove straight on.
Uncle Jack cursed under his
breath. Then he returned to
the stud-ram.
“Five-hundred quid, five-
hundred flaming quid. Gee, it
makes me thirsty. How about
forgetting the blasted ram,
Jed?”
“No, Jack, there’s not many
people around here that’ll want
him, and unless one of the big
companies bid I should get him
for around four-hundred. Even
if they do bid for him I’ll go to
five-hundred guineas.”
The yellow dust was sucked
up into a cloud behind us as
we bounced along the corruga-
tions. Dad drove with his
hands lightly on the wheel let-
ting it swing back and forth,
finding its own way through the
evenly spaced bumps so as not
to strain the steering. The sun
was well up behind us, the
freshness already burnt out of
the morning.
Where there was no shade
the sheep were standing in
small mobs, heads hanging in
each other’s shadows. The trees
along the road were heavy with
dust, the paddocks turning
yellow; rain was well
overdue.
The town was ahead of us
now, the corrugated-iron roofs
shimmering in the heat. Hotel,
bakery, the police-station with
its little wooden cell behind,
and the very general store.
'UDE swung in behind the
other cars in front of the
pub and pulled up.
“Time for one before the
sale, Jack,” said Dad, and
walked in.
“1 want to see that aristo-
cratic ram,” said Uncle Jack,
and he and 1 walked over to
the yards and found the yard
where the ram was. There were
several blokes there helping to
hold the fence up.
Uncle Jack surveyed the ram
for some time.
“A man ought to cut the
blighter’s throat,” he mused.
“Know much about sheep,
mate?” one of the fence-
upholders asked Uncle Jack.
He was the local s.-p.
“No, not much,” Uncle Jack
said.
“We’re running a book on
how much this one will reach ;
what do you reckon?”
“Ah, ’bout five-hundred
guineas,” said Uncle Jack.
“You can have twenty-five to
one for that guess,” said the
s.-p.
“Done,” said Uncle Jack.
“I’ll have twenty quid on it.”
And he took out the notes
and handed them over.
The s.-p. took it like it was a
gift and wrote out a ticket.
“Five-pound either way and
it’s yours,” he said, handing the
.ticket to Uncle Jack, and prac-
tically laughed in his face.
“Strike,” said Uncle Jack,-
when the s.p. merchant moved
on, “five hundred quid to come,
y’ wouldn’t believe it. First
time I’ve ever had inside-
information on a winner.”
“What if no one runs Dad
up to that?” I asked him.
“Stone the bloody crows!”
he said; “1 didn’t think, of
that.”
He sat down and started to
scratch his head.
Soon small groups of men
drifted over from the hotel,
taking their places round the
yard and leaning their arms on
the wooden rail at the top to
look down at the ram. Those
who had been inspecting the
other sheep moved over to see
the ram sold, as he was first on
the list.
The kids were climbing on
the fence to get a top-rail view.
Every now and then one of
them would disappear back-
wards, showing that he had
climbed the fence too near his
father. The baaing of sheep
filled the air, interspersed with
the yapping of dogs. .
“There’s Dad,” I said to
Uncle Jack; “over the other
side.”
“Don’t let him see you,” he
said, dragging me to the back
of the crowd.
We waited while the blur of
conversation grew. Men talk-
ing, shouting at dogs and kids.
ALD BUCKLY, the
auctioneer, • pushed his
way through the crowd and
climbed on to the three boards
nailed across the corner of the
yard under the peppercorn-tree.
Up in the tree above Old
Buckly you could just make out
Skinny Dobson. When the
auctioneer had climbed on to
the boards Skinny began to
bounce peppercorns off his
bald patch.
You could see Skinny was an
expert the way he hit even
when Old Buckly began to
dance around. But the pepper-
corns stopped when someone
shied a rock into the tree.
Then Old Buckly began his
act. He talked so much about
the ram and what a beauty it
was that you could see in the
end he wouldn’t mind buying
it himself.
“0.K., 0.K.,” he yelled,
“what am 1 offered for a
start?”
“Give’s five-bob and Ell take
him,” someone yelled.
And the sale was on.
“Fifty,” said someone.
“And ten.”
“A hundred,” yelled Dad’s
voice from the other side.
“And ten.”
“One-fifty! ”
Dad was getting excited now.
The way the bidding was going
you could tell he thought he
would get the ram cheap. When
the big companies were bid-
ding, their representatives bid
big from the start to frighten
everyone else off.
Uncle Jack was getting really
worried for his twenty quid
row; you could hear him
mumbling: “Come on, you
cows, bid him up! Come on,
come oh ... You beaut!” as
someone bid a twenty.
“Three-seventy-five, three-
seventy-five. Come on now,
let’s hear some more. Thank
you, sir, 1 am bid four-
hundred.”
Old Buckly was trying to
push them now.
"And ten,” yelled Dad.
“Four-hundred-and-ten. Any
advance on four-ten? Going,
going.”
“And ten,” croaked a voice
beside me.
“Eh!” exclaimed Old Buckly,
nearly falling off his platform.
“I said ten,” came the voice,
a bit stronger.
“And ten,” yelled Dad.
Uncle Jack was crouched
down beside me looking very
crook. He was shaking when
he looked up.
“Four-fifty,” he said in a very
small voice.
“Speak up,” said Oid Buckly,
beginning to look a bit
suspicious.
“Four-fifty,” called Uncle
Jack in a very thin voice.
“And ten!” yelled Dad in a
voice that told me he was
nearly black in the face.
“And twenty,” Uncle Jack
croaked.
“Five-hundred,” yelled Dad
with menace.
“Five-hundred, five-hundred,
any advance on five-hundred?
Going, going, gone! Sold to
you, sir, for five-hundred
guineas,” said Old Buckly,
pointing to Dad.
“Come on,” said Uncle Jack.
We headed for the place where
we’d last seen the bookie. He
wasn’t there.
“You seen the s.-p., mate?”
Uncle Jack asked one of the
crowd.
“Yeah,” he said; “funny
thing you should ask that. He
was standing here talking till
the bidding went past the four-
fifty mark,, then he started to
look a bit crook. At five-
hundred he headed for the
hotel. Give you a good price
at five-hundred, did he?”
“Sort of,” said Uncle Jack,
and we started walking towards
the hotel, fast.


Goodyear instals
*
process Miracle
II
!! V •;
TYRE
CORD
Miracle 3*T cord gives tyres thousands more miles, is bruise
• i
resistant, cooler-running, beats "tyre-growth" and allows
more retreads. It makes Goodyear tyres unchallengeably
the world's strongest, longest-lasting tyres.
15551
good/year
TYRES HAVE TRIPLE-TEMPERED (3*T) CORD
VI9IA


The Cinderella Services
By "EK DUM"
WHILE Parliament spent quarrelsome,
days discussing the relatively minor
matter of St. Mary’s munition-factory,
main issues of defence are left undebated
or, if they are debated, it is on casual
grounds, without any attempt to go to the
heart of some of the problems which
must be causing military leaders in all
services the gravest misgivings.
The defence (Services, save the
R.A.A.F., are Cinderella services. It is
true in a great degree that they are
secretly looked on by a lot of politicians
and a substantial section of the ill-
informed daily press as anachronisms in
their present shape. This is the day of
the push-button scientist and the
amateur strategist who is interested in
nothing but sensationalism. Inside the
service it is the day of the civilian admini-
strator whose outlook sometimes appears
to be that he is there to. curb the enthusi-
asms of the men in uniform who are
popularly supposed to live mentally in
the age of Queen Victoria because they
actually believe that the ultimate factor
in war is, and always will be, trained
manpower for whatever lethal purpose it
is employed.
Too Many Ministers
The situation is further complicated
and made difficult by the multiplication
of defence Ministries in Australia, which
means a multiplication both of Ministerial
and civilian administrative interference;
also by the honeycombing of the services,
during the Labor regime, with long-hairs
at higher ranks and, in the lower (civilian
ranks), in some cases with Communists,
for whom in particular the Senior Service
has been a target.
The results are quite evident in review.
No service is either recruiting the number
or sound quality of men, or, what is more
important, officers. Probably only in
n.c.o.s is the Regular Army near its
standard of strength, and whether those
ranks which are most responsible for the
training of troops, regular and otherwise,
at barrack-yard level are all the standard
capable of doing the job under modern
conditions is a matter of some doubt in
many quarters.
The trouble, of course, begins at
Ministerial level. Australia has more
defence Ministers per head of population
than any other civilised country and less
defence forces. It has a Minister for
Defence, a very capable businessman, but
not a good or ardent publicist. The
Defence Minister should be parti-
cularly dynamic in a country
whose Opposition and union-leaders
have been brainwashed by Leftist propa-
ganda into a state of mind in which they
believe or seem to believe, judging by their
behavior, that the best defence is no
defence at all.
Apart from the Defence Minister there
is a Defence Production Minister, the
target for most criticism, but doing a
remarkably good job in his sphere.
There is a National Service Minister
whose job is brigaded with the job of
Labor Minister, which it certainly should
not be*. A Minister in that position is
all the time under the pressure of
employers starved for workers, to the
detriment of the national training
scheme.
Navy Minister a Soldier
The Navy Ministry is in the hands of a
capable soldier who knows his Australia
and particularly those regions most vital
to defence against invasion, but the late
Archie Cameron used to say when he was
the incumbent —and a meticulous and
busy one who put in train the building
of Captain Cook Dock and the Cockatoo
Island war programme—that the work
rarely occupied him for more than an
average of an hour a day. Mr. Davidson
carries on the job in conjunction with the
Postmaster-Generalship, an office which
is full of policy problems, more
than is usual in departments where the
main business problems are taken off
Ministerial shoulders by the director-
general.
The Air Force is, of course, in the hands
of a Naval Reserve officer —actually
serving as a volunteer in the R.A.N. at
the time he was appointed—whereas the
Government party owns some highly
skilled airmen, including Air-Vice-
Marshal Bostock.
'As for the Army, it has been placed
in the administrative hands of a civilian,
by training a real-estate agent with no
military experience whatever that is on
record, but under whose regime the
civilian grip on the Army administration
has grown markedly.
While the strength of the military side
of the Army is steadily declining, that on
the civilian side is growing.
The Estimates, in fact, provide startling
proof of this, in 1951-52 the strength of
the Australian Regular Army budgeted
for 27,000 men and its gross pay was
£18,346,000 ; this year the budget is for
only 26,000 strength, with a gross pay of
£24,216,000. In the base year the Army
got along with 1272 civilians, whose
jobs were carefully itemised so that it
could be seen what the higher-ups of its
hierarchy were drawing—a gross of
£903,000 was provided. This year pro-
vision is made for 3207 civilians —no
itemisation in .the Estimates, except for a
secretary and four assistant-secretaries —
who are to draw a gross of £2,872,000 at
full strength. And some unspecified new
staff, not included in the . foregoing
figures, is provided for.
In 1951-52 the Chief of the General
Staff received a salary of £3500 ; today
he gets £5250, an increase of £1750. He
is responsible for the military safety of the
Commonwealth in time of trouble, the
chief planner and controller of military
affairs, with a lifetime of service, includ-
ing active service, behind him.
The young Civilian Secretary of the
department has risen from the position
of private secretary to W. M. Hughes in
1940. He served as a lieutenant in the
R.A.N. during the war. -For six years
after the war he was a lecturer at Can-
berra University College, whereafter he
was sucked into the Prime Minister's
Department over the heads of the per-
manent employees, and only three years
later became Secretary to the Army
Department. His salary at 39 is £5OOO
a year, which is an increase of £2250 over
that paid to the Civilian Secretary in
1951-52.
The rise in pay in the civilian depart-
ment-head was therefore £5OO more than
that accorded the Chief of the General
Staff.
$
Civilians in the Navy
The civilian invasion in the Navy is
even more striking. The total permanent
R.A.N. forces this year are estimated to
be 14,400, against 15,609 in 1951-52, and
gross pay has increased from £10,615,000
to £14,059,000. The civilian strength has
increased by about 600 to 2968, and the
salary-rise has been from around £900,000
to £2,248,000.
In the Department of Air, unlike the
other Service staffs itemised in the Esti-
mates, there are only 1722 civilians to
17,000 air-personnel—and this includes
the educational branch, which it
doesn’t apparently in the other services.
Rut there has been an increase from 556
since 1951-52—the civilian service has
more than trebled, while the fighting-men
and their ancillary services have grown
only by about 1500 or 10 per cent.
There is, apart from these departments,
another connected with defence which is
rarely mentioned in public, but it is pro-
bably the true controller of manpower
policy: the Treasury. So that in all,
apart from the Prime Minister, there are
no fewer than six Ministries dealing with
Australian defence —this outside War
and Repatriation. The United States
gets along with one Minister, Canada,
likewise, with one.
The fighting services would pro-
bably manage much better if they
were less Minister-ridden and less
civilian-ridden. At present it seems
very difficult to pin responsibility
in major matters, and the effects of
the overall condition of affairs is obvious
in the difficulty which is being experienced
in getting men to join the defence forces,
in which they are at a distinct dis-
advantage as to salaries, conditions and
particularly pensions, compared with the
civilian side —to which branch • the
aspirants flock in crowds.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Y
■
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
Melbourne Star Turns
TWO factors counted for
much in Straight Draw’s
success in this year’s Melbourne
Cup: the gelding was turned
out in superb condition by 63-
year-old Sydney mentor Jack
Mitchell, and he was ridden
a masterly race by Noel
McGrowdie.
With confidence based on a
career of extraordinary success
in important races, McGrowdie
rode Straight Draw as though
there was no chance of the
gelding being defeated. He
urged his mount out of, the
barrier, never allowed him to
drop further back than fourth,
and as the field straightened
up sooled him to the lead.
Vigorous challenges came from
Prince Darius, Pandie Sun and
Syntax, but the leader did not
falter under hard riding, and
never for a stride was in
danger of defeat.
Shortening from 10 to 1 to
13 to 2, the winner was the
best-backed horse in the race.
Following his mediocre run in
the Derby, Prince Darius was
a drifting 12 to 1, while third
placegetter Pandie Sun was
a steady 7 to 1. Surprise
favorite, at 11 to 2, was Red-
craze, who had that honor
for the second successive year.
The aged champion found his
10.2 far too much, and was
one of the first horses beaten.
* a • •
In the most cleanly run Mel-
bourne Cup this writer has
seen, there were no hard-luck
stories ; but, on the subject of
might - have - beens,” Prince
Darius’s run indicated that
Tulloch could have won this
year’s Cup as easily as he took
the Caulfield Cup.
• • • •
This year’s Cup field was
the first since 1889 that did not
include a filly or mare. Only
four of the 19 runners were
Victorian-owned.
• • •' •
It was Noel McGrowdie’s
first Melbourne Cup, but his
other important successes
include the A.J.C. Metropolitan
three times, three wins in the
Doomben Ten Thousand, three
Oakleigh Plates, two Sydney
Cups and two Brisbane Cups.
• • i
Straight Draw was the
fourth horse to win the AJ.C.
Metropolitan Handicap and the
Melbourne Cup in the same
season, the others being Dalray
(1952), Delta (1951) and Tim
Whiffler (1867).
5
Straight Draw was bred in
New Zealand by Mrs. Alister
Williams at Te Parae Stud,
Masterton, and cost 2000gns. as
a yearling. Winner now of
£23,691 in stakes, the five-year-
old gelding is by Faux Tirage
(imp.) by Big Game, and is
“Last year he lost a ball here.”
from Sunbride (imp.) by Tai-
Yang from Graceful Bride by
Golden Grace from May
Bride by Dark Legend. He was
foaled on September 12, 1952.
Shock of the V.R.C. carnival,
and the biggest upset in the
long history of the race, was
the defeat of Amneris in the
Oaks Stakes. On form and
weights, the Nilo filly looked
the certainty her price—6 to 1
on—suggested. With half a
mile to go, Amneris seemed to
be galloping well within her-
self, but when George Moore
asked for an effort she refused
to stretch out and finished a
dismal last. Veterinary
surgeons later reported that
Amneris had pulled up lame
in the near foreleg. The race
was won by Amarco, who was
a maiden before her Oaks
success. Amarco is a Mast-
head (imp.) filly out of Ron-
olive, and was bred by her
owner, V.R.C. vice-chairman
E. A. Underwood.
• t • «
Amarco’s sire, Masthead,
himself a good distance-
performer, and a son of Derby
winner Blue Peter, gets an
interesting mixture of stayers
and sprinters. He sired 1953
Oaks winner Waltzing Lady,
and also Matrice, possibly Aus-
tralia’s best sprinter and the
winner of the Linlithgow Stakes
on Oaks Day. At level weights
Matrice was much too good
for Sydney speedster Landy.
The six-year-old Masthead
horse has now won £27,215.
Only four Australian sprinters
—with Flying Halo’s £36,615
the top —have won more.
• • • •
The black Gabador colt
Gabonia cost 2000gns. as a
yearling, but he put himself
on the credit side of the ledger
before the V.R.C. carnival was
over. His win in the £lsflK)
Byron Moore Stakes on Oaks
Day was his third from as
many starts, and took his stake-
earnings to £2615. Last year
Tulloch won the Byron Moore.
Gabonia is good, but it is
asking too much to expect
him to develop into another
Tulloch.
• • • •
This writer, who has seen
Sailor’s Guide fight out many
a close finish in weight-for-age
events against top-class per-
formers like Rising Fast, Red-
craze and Syntax, never thought
to see the day when any horse
could treat “Sailor” with such
disdain as Tulloch did in last
Saturday’s C. B. Fisher Plate.
Never off the bit, Tulloch
cantered past the post five
lengths clear of Sailor’s Guide
—and that margin could have
been trebled had Sellwood let
the champion go.
• • • •
Coming after Straight
Draw’s Cup win, the success
of Humber Hawk in the 13-
furlongs Veteran ' Stakes on
Oaks Day showed that Faux
Tirage can certainly get a
sound stayer when mated with
a suitable mare. By Faux
Tirage out of Super Snipe,
Humber Hawk carpe home very
strongly to win running away.
He is raced by Mr. and Mrs.
C. L. and Mrs. O. R. Falkiner,
who bought him in New Zea-
land to stand as station sire at
Boonoke station, Widgiewa
(N.S.W.).
• • #1 • '
In winning the mile-and-a-
half Batman Stakes, Tuki" ran
right up to his good per-
formance in the Victoria Derby,
in which he finished third, only
a neck behind Prince Darius.
George Moore, who has made
the most of his Melbourne visit
this spring, rode a heady race
on Tuki. Realising that his
mount is a true stayer, Moore
took Tuki to the lead from
the barrier, and kept the pace
on all the way. These tactics
upset second placegetter Para
Prince, who came from last on
the turn to get within a neck
of the winner. Para Prince
should pick up a useful race
in the next few weeks.
• • • •
With the Melbourne Spring
carnival now virtually over,
honors of the season go to
Sydney-trained horses —mainly
through Tulloch’s invincible
form. Including Guineas Day
at Caulfield, main races have
been the Caulfield Guineas,
Caulfield Cup, Moonee Valley


Cup, W. S. Cox Plate, Derby,
Melbourne Cup, Oaks Stakes,
and C. B. Fisher Plate.
Tulloch won just half of those
races —Guineas, Caulfield Cup,
Derby and Fisher Plate.
Sydney-trained Redcraze and
Straight Draw took the Cox
Plate and Melbourne Cup,
leaving Melbourne horses Lord
Gavin and Amarco the Valley
Cup and Oaks. The three
Sydney-trained horses were all
New Zealand-bred.
Of this year’s two-year-old
crop; Gabopia and Sandhurst
seem outstanding. The Mc-
Carten-trained Gabonia is un-
beaten in three starts, while
Sandhurst won three out of
four races —and only a barrier
mishap cost him the race he
lost. Possibly Gabador has the
most brilliance, but Sandhurst’s
bloodlines indicate that he will
do better in the longer autumn
races,
Williamstown Cup selections:
Sailor’s Guide, 1 ; Pandie Sun,
2 ; Baron 3.
* * *
—and Sydney
Three of the eight races at
Canterbury Park last Saturday
were won by greys, their
successes all in sprint events.
They were Grey Flare (First
Ashbury Stakes), Shamrock
(Third Ashbury) and Windsor
Grey (Welter). Grey Flare and
Shamrock got their grey coat
from their dams. Grey Flare is
a High Caste gelding from Cas-
cadus by Pentheus, while Sham-
rock is by Jambo (imp.) from
Vestal Maid by Nizami (imp.).
Calenzo, runaway winner of
the Canterbury Second Ash-
bury Stakes, must be something
out of the box, so far as
restricted events are concerned,
or else the rest were a very
moderate lot, for the winner,
after reaching the front early,
went right away from the
opposition, and landed two or
three of the biggest bets for
this type of race noted for
many months. Riverina
mentor H. Hoysted trains the
six-year-old entire, who is by
Felt Yet (sire of Carioca).
Calenzo won races at Seymour
(Vic.) and Albury last month.
Cragsley has run good races
at the Canterbury Park track,
and his win there on Saturday
was one of the easiest of the
afternoon. Winner now of 10
races for trainer Vic Thompson,
the aged Cragsman gelding can
sprint and stay to about
9} furlongs. Cragsley hasn’t
had a tough time, because,
though now long in the game,
he has had only 38 starts for
his 10 firsts and 13 minor
places ; he has won £10,201 in
stakes. Thompson, a former
jockey of ability, rides Cragsley
in his trackwork, and also, with
success, takes advantage of an
apprentice allowance in races.-
Two of the expensive
yearlings of the 1955 Randwick
sales, Morvi’s Pride (2100gns.)
and King Delville (2600gn5.)
finished first and third in the
Canterbury Campsie Stakes. It
was the winner’s first race-
success ; King Delville has yet
to open his account, but he
may soon do so in a middle-
distance event: he is a brother
to Forest Beau, a winner of
the Queensland Derby and St.
Leger, and this latest race was
his most promising display to
date. Morvi’s Pride is a
brother to Prince Morvi, a
winner of the A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Derbys. He is a four-
year-old entire by Gaekwar’s
Pride (imp.) from Sincerity by
Beau Pere (imp.) from Rossolis
(imp.) by Invershin. Morvi’s
Pride was first trained by J.
Haigh ; later he was handled
by Peter Lawson, but now he’s
a member of Pat Murray’s
Randwick team. It was a
double for jockey Bill Camer,
who had won the first event
bn Infanta.
+
Balloch, noted sire of stayers,
sired Great Scott, winner of
latest two-mile New Zealand
Cup, at Riccarton. Great Scott
defeated Calcutta Sweep and
Flair. Balloch never raced ; he
was purchased in England as a
two-year-old for the Alton
Lodge Stud (N.Z.). He has
twice led the sires’ list in the
Dominion, and his half-brothers
Beau Pere (imp.) and Mr.
Standfast (imp.) also made
names for themselves at the
stud. Regal Scott (imp.), dam
of the New Zealand Cup
winner, was got by King
Salmon from Scotswood (imp.)
by Bold Archer.
The New Zealand Derby
Stakes (U mile) was won by
William Paul from Gibraltar
and McCool. R. J. Skelton,
who has ridden with much
success in the Dominion and
also is known on Australian
courses, piloted the Derby
winner. William Paul is by
Pannair (imp.) from Brolga by
Balloch (imp.) from Goorabul
by Magpie (imp.). The colt is
related to Prince Dakhil, a
winner of the Canterbury
Guineas.
Bar Toss (an apt title for a
racehorse by One Up) won the
Ipswich First Juvenile Handi-
cap in very good style last
Saturday. He was bred by
E. N. and P. J. Kruger at
Lyndhurst Stud, Warwick
(Q.). Back in the family
appears a winner of the Bris-
bane Cup, Plunder, who also
won the A.J.C. Anniversary
Handicap. Bar Toss is trained
by A. Pratt, who races him in
partnership with G. Shaw.
Magnafel, who won the Second
Juvenile, was also bred in
Queensland, his breeder being
F. J. C. Martin, of Olinda
Stud, Dalby. The youngster
is by The Magistrate (imp.)
from Felfast.
Melbourne and Sydney
racing folk will see some
interesting riding exhibitions
next month, when overseas’
jockeys will be competing, first
in the International Stakes at
Caulfield on December 7. So
far seven riders of note in their
particular countries have
accepted the invitations to
compete: Lester Piggott (Eng-
land), C. Barends (South
Africa), P. Khade (India), H.
Bollow (Germany), L. Milani
(Italy), M. Garcia (France) and
P. Alafi (Hungary). It is
also hoped to secure a top
horseman from America;
Eddie Arcaro and Willie Shoe-
maker were unable to make the
trip.
* * * *
Having run third to Sky
High and Sibelia in the
furlongs Spring Cup on
October 19, and again follow-
ing the same two home in the
Invitation Thousand on
October 25, First Variety made
amends by clearly winning the
15-i- furlongs Harold Park
Handicap (the first race of this
distance for pacers for a long
time). Having the box-seat
behind Powerful Lady (N.Z.)
for most of the journey, First
Variety shot to the front in
the straight and went on to a
two-lengths win from the New
Zealander, with Mineral Spring
a long-neck away third.
+ +
Other Sports
The Bulletin recently
received a note from Charlie
Nalty, who won the 1902 Cool-
gardie Westral wheel-race. (The
Westral was held from 1897 to
1907.) Charlie, now 76, and
generally hale and hearty,
lately had to spend a month
or so in Kalgoorlie district
hospital when a pedal of a
bike he was riding caught him
in the calf of the leg. He won
the fabled Westral as a rank
outsider ; bookies quoted him
at 100 to 1 because he was
giving the front man 350yds.
start in the two-miler. Book-
maker Alf Levy offered him
150 to nothing ; and paid over
that many fiddlies to Charles.
As Charles notes in his letter,
to win an Austral or a Westral
was to achieve cycling
immortality. He’s been a
Bulletin reader for 50 years.
* * *
Australia seems to have
several really good-’uns coming
along among the younger
runners (that is, not counting
such athletes as Lincoln, Ron
Clarke, Herb Elliott). For
instance, there’s the brilliant
Sydney sprinter Jim McCann;
another possible record-break-
ing sprinter in N.S.W. country
lad Dennis Tipping, who is
coached by Marjorie Jackson’s
former coach, Jimmy
Monaghan; Scotch College
miler Tony Olss o n, who
recently won his third successive
Melbourne public schools’ mile,
and has twice broken the
Empire schoolboy mile-record;
and, in Perth, Herb Elliott’s
younger brother Laurie, who
has recently won two school-
boys’ 880yds. races in very
good time. There's also Sydney
University miler Bob Vagg.
* * *
“Veryl”: One or two “onlys"
and “ests” in first-class cricket
in Australia this season—Vic-
torian skipper Sam Loxton,
only M.P.; Wal Walmsley (Q.),
oldest player—as well as being
the only elder of the Mormon
church ; Westralian Bert Rigg
(not to be confused with
brother Basil, who’s also played
Shield - cricket) the only
bespectacled participant; Brian
Hurn, of S.A., youngest, at 18.
“Severas”: A Sydney “Tele-
graph” columnist reported
(4/11/’57) on a cricket-match
to be played that day between
the staffs of the “Tele.” and
“S. M. Herald.” “The ‘Tele-
graph’ team has apparently
struck form. The world’s
greatest all-rounder, Keith
Miller, is 12th-man.” A good
par.; but I would query the
description used of Miller.
Sure, if “Nugget” returned to
first-class cricket, he would
probably once again deserve
“greatest all-rounder” ranking,
which he certainly held before;
but as he’s not playing in any
grade of cricket regularly can
he- rightly now be so labelled?
Does an athlete on retirement
still automatically hold a
rating earned at his sporting
peak? Is Bradman still the
greatest batsman in the world


''
. / ' '/ / / , . ' / >
''/, / , '
v /
✓ /
'',
f ' r r t
'
r
* /
7
' v
/ ' /
&
' *,
t *' /
* *
* /
i /
* r
4
>/*
.ft
■
1 -
&*$
m
s /
■kt
' /
* ' f / / , ' //
' -'
f , / , '' '
' /
a
'twxw*.
•• • •■ ?
; •!
/ ' 1
i-V
'//
in
/ /
-• * >
lift
' /
t
/ / /
' /
*/y ' '
'' X
/ A
A / -
the sports coat
with eternal youth
You’ll rub your eyes
when you see yourself
in this handsome sports coat
with its hand-made look!
That’s how good it is!
And it will keep that carefully tailored,
eternally youthful appearance
for more years than you can reckon.
Supremely comfortable,
it has a luxurious feel and cut
and it comes in all the very latest shades,
colors and patterns.
SPOUTS COATS by
* * A A A A A
T
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
SCCII3
today? Is Joe Louis still the
greatest heavyweight, or
Paavo Nurmi the greatest
runner?
* * *
“Old Pivot”: Reappointed
coach of the Geelong club for
1958, Reg Hickey has an un-
surpassed record in present-day
Vic. League football. It is 31
years since Hickey played his
first game with Geelong. He
finished up with 245, a club
record. He has been Geelong’s
non-playing coach since 1949,
after eight years as playing
coach; last year he coached
Victoria’s carnival side in
Perth. He played in seven inter-
state teams and helped in five
Geelong premierships, three
when he was a player or play-
ing coach and two as non-
playing coach.
* * #
SPORTING dragnet: Australian
Open champion Bruce Cramp-
ton won the Pelaco goit-tournament,
at the Victoria course (Melbourne),
with brilliantly consistent rounds of
70, 73, 69, 71 and 71, for an
aggregate 354 for the 90 holes. The
last two rounds, last Saturday, were
played in heavy rain. Tying for
second place, one stroke behind
Crampton, were Ampol winner
Gary Player and N.S.W. long-hitter
Frank Phillips (who played through-
out with an injured thumb). These
three were level in front of the field
on 283 at the end of the fourth
round. Peter Thomson, winner of
the last two Pelacos, was fourth,
with 357. Leading amateur was
Peter Toogood, on 362.
In Adelaide, in the Sheffield Shield
game, W.A. comfortably defeated
SA. by nine wickets. In Brisbane,
N.S.W. Colts defeated Queensland
Colts by eight wickets, after, on the
last day, a dashing unfinished third-
wicket partnership of 147 runs in
92min. by N.S.W. skipper Muller
and Bankstown batsman Thomas.
Australia’s Rugby Union Wallabies
easily won the first game of their
English tour, against Southern
Counties, 29-5, scoring eight tries
to one ; their goalkicking weakness
was in evidence. In their second
game, with a practically remade
team, they were beaten by the strong
Oxford University side, 12-6.
On Nov. 6, at Los Angeles, French-
man Alphonse Halimi won the dis-
puted world bantamweight title from
Mexican Raul Macias, on a points
decision over 15 rounds. In Mel-
bourne last Friday night, in a hard
fight, Australian middleweight
champion Billy McDonnell out-
pointed Italian importation Angelo
Brisci over 12 rounds. In Brisbane
featherweight champion Bobby Sinn
k.o.’d lightweight prospect Bert
O'Keefe, of Sydney, in the Bth round
after O’Keefe had led on points.
On Nov. 7, on Coniston Water
(Eng.), Englishman Donald Camp-
bell, in his Bluebird 11, set a new
water-speed record of 239.07 miles an
hour. (That is the average speed of
two runs, at 260.1 m.p.h. and
218.024 m.p.h; respectively.) Camp-
bell held the previous record. 225.63
m.p.h., which he set on Coniston
(Sept. 19, 1956). Earlier this year
in the U.S.A. he had made several
unsuccessful attempts at a new
record.
The six-day professional bike-
race ending in Dortmund (Germany)
on Nov. 5 was won by the Aus-
tralian-Italian combination Roger
Arnold and Fernando Terruzzi ; in
the last European winter they won
quite a few important distance-races.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O'SCLUYv\-
PTYLTD
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TOPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES •
Telegrams and Cables
■JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BONNIE ADA MARGARET STEIN-
HARDT late of 95 Annerley Road,
South Brisbane, Queensland. —TAKE
NOTICE that WILLIAM HENRY
STEINHARDT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3705 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899.
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before Bth January 1958 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. SOMERVILLE
LAUNDRY LOMAX & NEWTON, Soli-
citors, of Lismore, or their Agents,
MESSRS. DOWLING TAYLER PRATT
& NICOL, Solicitors, of Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HAROLD THOMAS SPENCER late
of Paddington.—TAKE NOTICE that
IRIS SPENCER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4069 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act
1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 23rd day of December
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from FRED A. & E. S.
NEWNHAM, Solicitors, of 28 Martin
Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JEAN MARIE ESSENHIGH late of
Paddington and Liverpool.—T AK E
NOTICE that DONALD WILLIAM
ESSENHIGH has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3188 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the Court to exercise
its discretion in his favour notwith-
standing that he admits having com-
mitted adultery If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 12th day of
December 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Soli-
citors, 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.— 1
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GWENETH ADELE HICKS late
of Sydney.-—TAKE NOTICE that
FREDERICK ROY HICKS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 3159 of 1957
on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 16th January 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from McDONALD & MC-
DONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN
& Co., Solicitors, of 2 York Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Wanted to buy The Australian
Music Book, No. 31. —6617.
To buy The King and His
Dominion Governors, by H. V.
Evatt. —6618.
For sale, two original Neville
Cayley paintings framed. Reason-
able.—66l9.
To buy Australia in the World
Crisis and The Economic Implica-
tions of Large Scale Migration, both
by Copland ; Australian Marketing
Problems and Australian Trade
Policy, by Copland and Jones A
Cultural Table of Orchidaceous
Flants, by J. M. Cox ; and M.
Craine and M. Leahy’s The Land
That Time Forgot. —6620.
Can anyone supply title and a
few more lines (about half-a-dozen
would do) of what seems to have
been a once well-known old-time
recitation, beginning
I know a boarding-house
Not far away
and with the further lines
I wish I had a few more brickfi
To build my chimney higher.
—6621.
Words of “The House Where I
Was Born,” a song-version of
Thomas Hood’s poem “I Remember,
I Remember” (the words as given in
the song, not the words of . the
poem, are what is sought) ; or,
preferably, a loan of the printed
sheet-music of the song (all care will
be taken of it). —6622.
Information Supplied
“P.0.M.C.”: Sydney’s National
Theatre, or The Nash (B. 23/10/’57),
occupied the site of the present
Mayfair Theatre in Castlereagh
Street until the early 1920’5. In
World War I and after it was owned
(or leased) by Ben (later Sir Ben)
Fuller in partnership with his
brother. They staged what was
“It all started as a purely verbal argument. I Won
THAT part of it , all right.”
generally regarded as second-rate
vaudeville at cheap prices, though
“Stiffy and Mo” had a season there.
Turns with plenty of sex and sugges-
tion “went over big” at The Nash.
A few doors away, on the site of the
piesent Embassy Theatre, Harry
Rickards’s Tivoli put on much better
fare—Jean Keith (as a child), Jack
Cannot, Vera Pearce and other
Australians played at the Tiv. before
successful tours abroad.
“Lindy”: The old “Nash” was
where the Mayfair Theatre is today.
Many a good show I saw there about
1908-09. It was run by James
Brennan. (He also had a few race-
horses, Pendant, Istria and one
called Scotland that I recall). We
used to pay Is. up in the Gods where
a “stacker” named Jack Allen used
to keep moving us along saying,
“You can get another one in there.”
First half was a minstrel show with
Dick Stead as interlocutor and
Porky Kearns and Albert McKisson
on the corners. Some of the artists
I remember Olga Pennington,
Goldie Collins, Ranger Sisters, Dris-
coll Bros., Sam Gale and Little
Sadie.
“Inveni”: In the early years of
the present century the old National
Amphitheatre was the National
Sporting Club, owned and conducted
by Jim Brennan, who was a well-
known sporting figure, and
raced—among many other horses —
Pendant, Istria and William the
Silent. The boxing-ring was at the
rear of the building, on what was
really a stage ; and patrons could
sit and watch the contests as at a
theatrical show. There was a bar,
serving drinks at all hours of the
night, at the side of the building.
The stage-part of the place yfas
available to teachers of boxing.
Among those who gave lessons there
was Hock Keys, a popular fighter
of the times.
In 1911-12 the National Club
became the National Amphitheatre,
and vaudeville was conducted there
for a few years, first by Brennan,
and then by the Fullers. Manager
for Brennan was the well-known
Jimmy Bain, who was afterwards
replaced by Joe St. Clair.
It was at the National Sporting
Club that Jack Johnson was first seen
in Australia. There he did a little
sparring—it couldn’t be called a
fight—with the big colored boxer
Peter Felix. Brennan arranged a
similar show in Melbourne with
Johnson toying with Bill Lang. At
any rate, this is my recollection of
Brennan’s importation to and presen-
tation of Johnson in Australia.
The National Amphitheatre—or,
as it was better known, “The Nash”
—took several names before it
became the Mayfair. It was long run
as a vaudeville house by the Fullers,
and then leased about twenty years
ago to Hoyts for pictures.
Information Sought
Brief history of Stonehenge?
The following is a precis of Every-
man’s Encyclopaedia’s article: Stone-
henge is a great circle of standing
stones on Salisbury Plain, two miles
west of Amesbury (Wiltshire, Eng.).
It has attracted attention for many
centuries, but, in spite of recent
scientific excavation, it remains a
major archaeological mystery. The
site is obviously sacred, devoted to
worship ; and it has been proved to
have been built in different ages.
What is called the Aubrey Circle,
which is a circle of holes probably
for wooden posts and which dates
fiom the Beaker period of the
Bronze Age, is the earliest structure
at Stonehenge. After its decay there
was erected a ring of standing sarsen
stones, carefully dressed and con-
nected by continuous lintels ; and
within the ring a horseshoe struc-
ture of five trilithons of sarsen stone.
There are also another horseshoe of
trilithons made from spotted dolerite,
some other stones, and the “Y” and
“Z” holes, two irregular incomplete
circles, in the square socket-holes of
which has been found pottery of the
Early Iron Age.
* * * *
Details of the Piltdown hoax ?
On Dec. 18, 1912, Arthur Smith
Woodward (later knighted, then
Keeper of Geology at the British
Museum) and Charles Dawson
(lawyer and talented amateur
palaeontologist and geologist)
announced the discovery of a remote
ancestral form of Man —the “Dawn
Man” of Piltdown. Dawson
claimed he had found, in ancient


WILDFLOWER PRINTS
SIX-COLOUR OFFSET PRINT-
ING. STIFF PAPER. LIMITED
TO 500 tfOPIES.
23in. x 17in.
17in. x 144 in.
SIGNED BY THE ARTIST.
Swamp Orchid—Phaius tankervillise
Sun Orchids —Thelymitra ixioides 1
Nnnyi-um—Melastoma polyanthum I
Green Banksia—Banksia robur
Q'land Frangipanni—Hymenosporum flavum J
25/— each
15/- each
50/— set
llin. x Bin.
Burgundy Hibiscus —Hibiscus radiatus
Forked Sundew—Drosera binata
Bugle—Ajuga australis
White Kurrajong—Brachychiton discolor
10/6 each
35/— set
B}in. x s|in,
Stradbroke Is. Boronia—Boronia saffrolifera
Wallum Boronia —Boronia falcifolia
Scented Fan-flower —Scserola suaveolens
Spadeflowers—Hybanthus flliformis
H.ybanthus enneaspe
Pinkeye—Tetratbeca tliymifolia
Christmas Bell —Blandfordia flammea
f Centaury—Centaurium spieatuin 1
] Purple Violet —Viola betonicsefolia V
[ Buttercup—Ranunculus lappaceus j
(three flowers together)
Small-leaf Guinea-flower —Hibbertia vestita
6/ each
40/ set
Folders for larger for smaller sizes. Suitable and easy for
sending overseas as gifts. ORDER FROM —
KATHLEEN McARTHUR,
Orvieto Terrace, Caloundra, Queensland.
THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE!
SUPERB SERVICE!
Key-notes of The Hotel Metro-
pole’s years of service to the
countryman of Australia —“Home
Comfort” plus the service and
facilities of Australia’s largest and
friendliest hotel. Over 400 rooms,
all with hot and cold water and tele-
phones—so with private bathrooms;
five superbly appointed banquet
rooms for private and business
functions ; excellent room-service
and Sydney’s finest dining-room and
cellar. The Hotel Metropole is
right in the heart of Sydney, close to
transport and only minutes from
Sydney’s finest shops and theatres.
The Hotel Metropole
"THE COUNTRYMAN'S
HOME IN SYDNEY"
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O.
gravels in Sussex, a cranium and
jaw of the one being, together with
flints (“eoliths”) and fragments of
animal teeth and bone. There were
sceptics from the start who
doubted, on several grounds—for
cne thing, Piltdown-man had a
modern forehead and ape’s jaw
while all the other ancestral forms
had a simian-looking forehead and
unapelike jaw—bu.. Eoanthropus
dawsoni was accepted by most
scieniists and scientific writers. In
Sir Arthur Keith ( Antiquity of Man)
it had a powerful advocate. Pilt-
down-man’s authenticity seemed to
be established when, in 1915,
Dawson found similar remains two
miles away—at a spot never really
pinpointed. That the whole thing
was a hoax began to b'e proved in
1949, when Dr. Kenneth Oakley
carried out a fluorine-dating test
which showed that skull and jaw
were of different ages. Other
modern chemical tests proved,
among other things, that some of the
parts were artificially stained and
the teeth deliberately filed down;
and the public exposure was
announced on Nov. 21, 1953. Daw-
son, who died in 1916, is believed
to have bven the hoaxer. The full
story is told in The Piltdown
Forgery (1955); by J. S. Weiner, one
of the scientists who cleared up
the matter.
* • * *
Method of preserving muscatels
and protecting them from bees, ants
and flies ?
Not clear whether you wish to dry
the fruit from the vines, or to safe-
guard grocery stores. For the
former, apply for information on
process to Department of Agri-
culture, Perth ; impossible to give
adequate details in our space. For
the latter, store small quantities for
home-use in screw-top jars or in tins
with tightly fitting press-in lids. For
larger quantities, attack ants in their
runways and nests with a solution of
2 per cent, chlordane ; follow direc-
tions on container and keep away
f.om food. For bees and flies, keep
the fruit covered and screen-wire
windows and doors. Constant vigi-
lance is necessary to combat all
insect attacks.
* * * *
Flow to tan a snake-skin ; or
where in Sydney could l get it
tanned ?
The process is fairly lengthy.
Soak in water for a day or two until
the skin is soft, then scrape clean.
Cure in a solution of 31b. to 51b.
lime to lOgals. water for six days,
lifting the skin out twice a day to
drain ; agitate The solution every
time the skin is replaced to keep
lime circulating. Half quantity of
lime mixture would do for small
skin. After six days, scrape off the
scales, wash clean in several changes
of water for 24 hours, then tan in a
weak solution of qhopped-up wattle-
bark. For quotations, write to
Platypus Leather Industries Pty.,
Ltd., 3 Tenterden Road, Botany,
Sydney. Ask for name of suitable
firm if Platypus Leather cannot
quote.
* * * *
What is the procedure in an elec-
tion under preferential voting when
two candidates, one of whom must
be eliminated, are level on votes ?
In an election where a preferential
system of voting applies, if no candi-
date has an absolute majority of first-
preference votes (i.e., at least one
more than half the number of
formal votes recorded) the candi-
date with the fewest first-preference
votes is excluded and each of his
ballot-papers is transferred to the
continuing candidate next in the
order of the voters’ preference. This
procedure is repeated until one candi-
date has received an absolute
majority of the votes. If o* any
count two candidates have an equal
number of votes and one of them
has to be excluded, subject to any
provision which may exist in the
rules of the organisation concerned,
the candidate to be excluded could
be decided by lot or otherwise as
determined by the governing body
of the organisation. The position as
regards Australian Parliamentary
elections is not discussed in E. D.
Senior’s Australian Systems of
Voting, but it would probably be
resolved by lot.
Brief Answers
J.K.P.: In N.Z. it was intended to
hold a referendum on the death-
penalty at the time of the general
election this year; but N.Z. Prime
Minister JHolyoake announced
recently that that plan had been
dropped. If his Government were
le-elected, he then said, legislation
would be introduced limiting the
death-penalty to the worst cases of
murder... .M.W.: A 13-line note on
Ann Bishop appears in Oscar
Thompson’s International Cyclo-
pedia of Music and Musicians. It
is: Born London, Jan. 9, 1810; died
New York, Mar. 18, 1884. Daughter
of a singing-master named Riviere —
married the famous English com-
poser and conductor Sir Henry
Bishop—toured Australia, North
and South America, Honolulu,
China and India —spent latter part
of her life in America—soprano-
voice... .H.F.8.: (1) Everyman’s
Encyclopaedia gives the following
information. “In the British Isles
there were (1944) 4100 [Baptist]
chapels, • and their members
numbered 368,000. In U.S.A. the
number of adherents is 8,262,000
(1936).” (2) It probably would be.
(3) The Baptist Church in the
U.S. would not use them, either.
(4) Write U.S. Information Library,
46 Margaret Street, Sydney
J.D.L.: Write N.S.W. Chamber of
Commerce, 36 Grosvenor Street,
Sydney C.H.R.: Have passed
on to the inquirer your note on
Alexander the Great and Bucephalus.
....G.S.: Your query on television
was referred to Admiral of Aus-
tralia Pty., Ltd., 43 Margaret Street,
Sydney... .S.M.J.: The S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize is no longer
awarded K.D.: Write Angus and
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney ; or try Melbourne Public
Library R.M.T.: (1) The
accounts of this company have not
been reviewed for some years. Not
aware of any current reviews. (2)
No C.L.: The way you worded
the question, the subject is far too
comprehensive and involved for
satisfactory coverage on the Service
page. Narrow down your question
to one or more reasonably com-
pact and specific queries, and an
answer will be prepared A.A.1.:
When leases of pastoral holdings, as
distinct from yearly licences, were
first issued, Alexander Imlay applied
through John Taylor for Moonbuka
station. This was in 1848. Imlay
at that time estimated Moonbuka as
40,000 acres ; it lay in the Lachlan
pastoral district, about 20 miles east
of the present town of Barmedman.
The name is preserved in the parish
ot Moonbucca. (Information from
N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Lands.)
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contribution voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered jor publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
D.H.: Just stutters along
L.N.D.: The idea fair, treatment
woeful G.G.: With a little more
polish you’d have made it
A. Jumbled.... 8.N.: “Oh
Delight of Delights” wasn’t....
1.F.L.: Condense and try again
G.McN.: “Ode to Irish Stew”
tvatery P.T.: Two weeks’ holi-
day doesn’t merit 27 ill-formed
stanzas N.J.: But why rhyme
“hessian” with “Friesian”?....
W.T.: Not bad ; bit juvenile
S.L.S.: First-person reminiscences
need more .positive treatment
B. There’s a thought in it
somewhere F.T.L., G.O’H.,
L.L., Andy S., P.C.: Thank you
for satellite-stories, satellite-poems
and an Ode to a Space Dog.
. ...A.S.: “The Iron Curtain” is
rather an ambitious theme
Tanda: It has an air of
authenticity:
RACES IN THE BUSH
A neighbor living up the road
Called and asked of me
If I'd care to go to Quamby
The races there to see.
I was delighted with the arrangement
We left at ten next day
We took a picinic luncheon
And wore a gay array.
On our arrival at the pub
Which was crowded to the doors
Many old friends there we greeted
Including two of my in-laws
All were anticipating big money
Their humor was very gay
I’m sure a few were downhearted
At the closing of the day.
The darkies weren’t worried
That they couldn’t get inside
They were sitting on their haunches
Watching the crowd arrive.
Drinking tea from pannikins
They seemed to laugh a lot
We stayed there for an hour
To the racecourse then we got.
The seats were hard and spotted
You could see where the birds had been
’Twas one of the crudest grandstands
That I had ever seen
With another bar at the racecourse
The day being fairly hot
Did the punters wet their whistles?
Did they ? —Did they what 1
Now out at the Quamby racecourse
Our excitement was intense
For we had ten bob on a neddy
And we nearly'jumped over the fence
Come on you Beauty we shouted
He’s winning all the way
Then —down he came a cropper
And w r e’d lost five bob on the day.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
ANGLO-AMERICAN CO-OPERATION
A S the following sampliftg of
British and U.S. press-
comment indicates, Russia’s
space-satellites have at least
sent the Western nations into
a promising huddle over the
pooling of the scientific know-
ledge :
James Reston in “N. Y.
Times” : “The Western alliance
is in a bad way but Nikita
Khrushchev is putting it
together again. What Sec-
retary of State Dulles and the
British Foreign Secretary
Selwyn Lloyd were not able to
achieve in the West or the
Middle East, what the ‘three
wise men’ tried and failed to
do for the North Atlantic
treaty, Mr. Khrushchev is
accomplishing with his flam-
boyant diplomacy.
“By crying havoc over
Turkey and Syria, by sending
his Sputnik spinning around
the globe, by comparing Chan-
cellor Adenauer in West
Germany with Hitler, he has
startled the Western nations out
of their narrow nationalistic
preoccupations and started the
long - overdue process of
rebuilding the Atlantic coali-
tion.”
* * *
H. C. Allen, Commonwealth
Fund Professor of American
History at the University of
London, in a letter to “New
York Times” : “Through their
exclusive nationalism, which is
emotional and irrational, the
nations of the West have
severely handicapped them-
selves.
“This is most absurdly illus-
trated by the spectacle of the
United States and Britain
solemnly producing in isolation
two sets of atom-bombs and
two sets of hydrogen-bombs—
a spectacle ludicrous, wasteful
and perhaps fatal. It would be
useless for a layman in science
to ask whether a combined
Western project might not have
outpaced the Russians long
ago, because of its broader
base of scientific skill and its
greater concentration of
resources.
“It cannot help but strike a
historian that not only at each
of the three great stages of de-
velopment since 1945 —the
atom-bomb, the hydrogen-
bomb and the intercontinental
missile —We have consistently
and gravely underestimated the
Russian achievement, but
above all that the only time
when we really enjoyed an
unchallenged lead over Russia
in this sphere was when we had
a joint Anglo-Canadian-Ameri-
can project.”
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “The Allies beat the
“IN THAT MOONLIGHT YOU LOOK
KIND OF ATTRACTIVE.”
Nazis to the atom-bomb simply
because British and American
scientists pooled their know-
ledge and worked together. We
had no secrets from each other
then. Why should we now?”
* * *
London “Daily Herald” :
“What is the most idiotic
spectacle in the world?
The choice is enormous, but
it is hard to beat the stupidity
of America and Britain hiding
scientific information from each
other in case the Russians
should steal it, while the Bleep
flies round the earth advertising
who knows the mostest now.”
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“It is totally absurd that
American and British scientists
should be working in ignorance
of what the other side is doing.
Cross-fertilisation is the clue
to success in all scientific
experiment; above all, in basic
research.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“In matters of defence, as the
Soviet Union’s rocket successes
have reminded us, the Western
alliance simply cannot afford
the waste of scientific and
technical effort involved in
separate, security-wrapped pro-
grammes of research and
development. It will be no
comfort, when the Russians get
further and further ahead of
us, to know that we have
successfully kept our secrets
from each other.”
The same: “The false
honeymoon of the posl-Stalinite
era is over. We see Mr.
Khrushchev in his true colors,
as a ruthless trouble-maker and
power-seeker. Every weakness
in the West, every grievance
of the rest of the world, every
source of conflict is eagerly
exploited. No such oppor-
tunity is more valuable to him
than division among the
democratic Powersit does not
have to be open discord
disconnected drift is bad
enough. In the past eighteen
months international affairs
have conspicuously deteri-
orated. To the causes of this
nothing has contributed more
than Anglo-American disunity.’’
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune’’:
“An outgrowth of the Klaus
Fuchs and Allan Nunn May
betrayals of Western ‘secrets’ to
the Soviets was a wiping-out
of most all atomic scientific
interchange between the United
States and its allies. The [U.S.]
McMahon Atomic Energy Act
and its subsequent amend-
ments forbade it. Long after
we had solved the fusion
problem, British scientists,
working in the dark and on
their own, were forced to
waste millions of pounds and
countless, needless man-hours
on solving the same riddle. The
same work could easily have
gone into new work, like
getting ahead in satellites and
missiles. The United States
was put in the ridiculous
situation of being prevented
from sharing with its allies
information which the Soviets
already had.”
The same: “At a joint con-
ference in Princeton, sponsored
by our [America’s] Atomic
Energy Commission and
Britain’s Atomic Energy
Authority, it was announced
that several different experi-
mental processes have yielded
what may be the first break-
through to harnessing the
fusion energy. This involves
getting a yield of neutrons, or
the force of energy, out of
heavy hydrogen heated to
temperatures close to. that of
the sun. This is a small break-
through,-but may prove to be
the beginning of bigger ones.
It lends all the more reason
to the President’s determination
to persuade Congress to break
down the other barriers to the
free communication of science.”
* * *
“ Yorkshire Post”: “The
need is not only for the
exchange of scientific papers or
engineering blueprints but for
discussions between researchers
and technologists on specific
problems and for the allocation
of specific jobs of work accord-
ing to the facilities and raw
materials each country has
available. In one of his great
war-time speeches Sir Winston
Churchill suggested that the
affairs of Britain and the United
States would have to get more
and more mixed up together
as they strove to overcome the


When the family
banks with the C.B.C,
m
yyHEN the family banks
with The Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney Limited it enjoys
traditionally helpful and friendly advice. The
Bank’ s many extra services are also available to help
you and those in your care.
w
The C.B.C. Savings Bank
Limited makes convenient and
simple savings facilities avail-
able to all members of the
family.
Deposits in the C.B.C.
Savings Bank are guaranteed
by the parent company.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED V 834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
danger facing them both.
Exactly the same could be said
today.”
* * *
London “Observer”: “It is
not only research that needs
to be pooled. What is urgently
needed is an effective division
of labor in the production of
weapons. In the new situation,
Britain and Western Europe
will have to devote more men
and money to the strengthening
of their conventional defences ;
they can do so only if they
renounce such costly diversions
as British H-bomb production
—but that in turn is possible
only if they can rely on getting
American nuclear weapons in
peace-time, which the Mc-
Mahon Act at present prevents.
Now is the moment to get a
really drastic revision of the
Act and of our armament-
programmes at a single stroke ;
it should not be missed.”
♦ ♦ •
“Manchester Guardian” :
“The trouble is that scientific
information is often less
tangible than most people
are tempted to think. A few
numbers on a piece of paper
passed over a table will not tell
a person on the other side how
to make an efficient hydrogen-
bomb or a good guidea-missile.
Technological cleverness
—especially the sort that goes
to the design of weapons—is
often as much a matter of
greenfingers as of figures that
can be manipulated with slide-
rules.
“Three conclusions follow:
“First, it is inconceivable
that there will be successful
collaboration unless both sides,
at the political level, urgently
want it.
“Second, flexibility should
be of overriding importance. In
some fields formal contacts
between members of com-
mittees will suffice ; in others
it will be necessary to arrange
contacts between larger
numbers of people lower down
in the hierarchy.
“Third, it must not be
forgotten that all effective
research has to be planned in
advance. Nothing will come of
collaboration in these fields if
it is reduced to the comparison
of notes after both sides have
solved the same problems.”
* * *
London “Financial Times ” .
‘The military and the peaceful
applications of scientific
research are inseparable; co-
operation inevitably implies
that some countries _ will gain
commercially and that others
will lose. The implication has
to be accepted. The success of


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Russia’s scientific effort is due
not only to its tremendous scale
but to its unity, to the fact that
it draws no artificial distinctions
between pure and appli e d
research or between the peace-
ful and military applications of
its fruits. The West can only
hope to match this success by
full co-operation, and co-
operation of this kind must
imply a gradual drawing-
together of the whole Atlantic
community.”
* * *
Toronto “Globe and Mail” :
“Whatever Russia’s accom-
plishments and they have
indeed been remarkable the
Western Powers still have the
advantage over her in wealth,
brainpower and industrial
facilities. But it is a collective
advantage, and if it is to
prevail must be so employed.
To continue the present isola-
tionism is not only absurd but
suicidal. The remedy reposes
where the isolationists do—in
Washington.”
Fingerprints
“New York Times” on the
virtual abolition of the finger-
printing of overseas visitors to
the U.S.:
“The Soviet Government has
long claimed that the only
reason it refused to permit -its
ordinary citizens to come here
[the U.S.] was because in some
way it would be insulting to
their dignity to submit to
fingerprinting. That excuse
for limiting Soviet citizens’
freedom of movement has now
been removed.
“It will be interesting to see
whether the Soviet Govern-
ment will permit representative
groups to come to this country
and to see the ‘horrors of
capitalism’ at first hand. The
more Soviet citizens get a
chance to see our country at
first hand and to compare the
reality of life here with the lies
they have been told, the better
it will be for us and the better
it will be for the ordinary
citizens of the Soviet Union.
“Whether the Kremlin will
permit any significant group of
ordinary Soviet citizens—not
Vicky, in London “New Statesman”
high-level, well-paid bureau-
crats —to make that comparison
for themselves remains to be
seen.”
Sky-high Claims
By no means the least
ingenious contribution to the
discussions on national rights to
outer space was made by the
Russian lawyer who claimed
that the Soviet’s satellites were
not infringing on any nation’s
stratospherical territory because
“it was the countries which
passed under the satellite, not
the satellite over the countries.”
Commenting, London
“Economist” points out that
“this piece of applied relativity,
which may go down in the
annals of international one-
upmanship as the sputnik ploy,
is based on the fact that as
Moscow’s moon circles the
earth, passing roughly from
pole to pole, it would be
invisible to most countries were
it m>t for the rolling of the earth
upon its axis, which bears them
into the spectators’ stand
beneath it twice a day”;
“This, however, does not
remove the equally valid fact
that, once a particular stretch
of earth has got itself into a
position to be travelled over,
the satellite does so with zest at
18,000 m.p.h. It all depends
what you mean by ‘moving.’ If
the Russians really mean to say
that, because the satellite travels
in its fixed orbit, the earth must
be held responsible for all the
moving that goes on between
them, Soviet citizens who get
run over by trams had better
prepare themselves to be
charged with assaulting a
stationary object.
“This is only one of the pro-
blems that are going to face
international lawyers as they
work out the implications of the
space age. Are the upper
regions of space free to all
traffic, like the sea outside
territorial waters? If so, the
problem will be to define where
‘territorial air’ ends —and to
stop accretive "nationalists like
Peru and Chile claiming more
than anyone else upwards as
well as outwards.
“Or does a nat i o n’s
sovereignty extend infinitely
upwards into the sky as it does
downwards into the soil?
There is a Latin legal tag which
suggests that it does, but science
has now carried matters beyond
the point where a Latin tag is
enough to set all the lawyers
heads nodding gravely.
“And how would one draw
infinite dividing-lines between
different countries’ sovereign
areas? If the lines went
straight up—so that a country
300 miles wide owned a 300-
mile wide column of space right
up into the high blue yonder—
there would, because of the
curvature of the earth, be huge
cake-shaped wedges of space in
between that belonged to
nobody.
“In any case, the thought of
settling boundary disputes is
enough to make a U.N. volun-
teer cling to Gaza as one of
fife’s cushier postings.
“The international lawyers
are still walking round the edge
of these problems. It is a fear-
ful prospect: ninety or a hun-
dred States, all eager to stick
imaginary flags in large chunks
of nothing. There may be
something to be said for the
idea that, above a certain
height, space is free to all
comers. But if this is what the
Russians mean, they will do
better to say it than to entangle
themselves in semantic puzzles
about motion.”
British Car Industry
Less than a year ago the
British motor-industry was
working a three- or four-day
week with about 50,000
employees on short time ; to-
day, “Manchester Guardian”
comments, it is breaking
production-records and push-
ing export-figures to fresh
heights.
The home market has shown
a remarkable recovery and, the
“M.G.” adds, “the success of
the drive to increase exports
has been even more dramatic”:
“Just over half of the motor-
industry’s production of cars is
now finding customers abroad,
and the outstanding part of
this achievement is the success
of British cars in North
America.
“The United States has
replaced Australia as the
biggest single market overseas
for British cars, and in the
first seven months of this year
Canada had second place.
United States purchases of
British cars from January to
July this year were worth
£20,457,406 in dollars, and
Canadian purchases came to
£7,103,475.
“Rhodesia and Nyasaland
followed closely with imports
worth £6,799,333, and New
Zealand with imports amount-
ing to £6,407,742. Import-
re strictions in Australia


THIS
AIR TRAVEL BOOKLET
is packed with good advice
WRITE IN FOR YOUR COPY NOWI
ADVICE TO \
lilSllß TRAVELLERS
“Advice to Air Travellers” has
been especially planned by Qantai
to tell you about travel formalities,
baggage allowances, clothes,
etc. You’ll find it most
informative, so write in today
for your copy to:
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.#
Advertising Department,
Box 489, G.P.0., Sydney.
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
Qanfas Empire Airways Limited (Inc. in Qld.) in Mintloflon with I O.A.C. and TEA!
Q61.82J7
reduced Australian imports to
£3,934,797.
“Outside the Commonwealth,
Sweden has been our best
customer next to the United
States, buying cars worth
£4,942,985 in seven months,
followed by Belgium, with
imports worth £3,830,357. The
Netherlands bought British cars
to the value of just over £2
million, and Austria, Denmark,
France, Western Germany and
Switzerland all spent over £1
million apiece on British cars
between January and July.”
Looking at the figures from
another angle, London “Finan-
cial Times” points out that
“Britain has regained from
Germany her position as the
world’s leading exporter of
vehicles of all kinds, and in the
vital U.S. market sales of
British cars have overtaken
those of cars imported from
Germany”:
“In terms of total exports
of passenger-cars alone —that
is, excluding commercial
vehicles —Germany still leads
with 34 per cent, of the world's
total. But after six years of
steady decline from the com-
manding position of account-
ing for over one-half of the
world car-exports in 1950 to
only just over a quarter last
year, Britain has picked up to
almost 30 per cent, this year.
Both Britain and Germany
have increased their car exports
by about the same percentage
this year, but in the U.S. market
Britain has swept into the lead,
multiplying her exports by three
times. In both cases the U.S.
is now by far the largest
market, taking $54 million
worth of British and $49 million
worth of German cars in the
first half of this year.”
Suggesting some of the
reasons for the increasing
popularity of British cars on
overseas markets, the “Finan-
cial Times” notes that “the
ground was well prepared last
year, when great efforts were
concentrated on the shipments
of spare parts and on the
improvement of servicing
facilities.
“Second, there has plainly
been a considerable improve-
ment in the quality of cac
offered by the Bril i s h
industry in the past two years.
Several new models . have
recewtly appeared which show
a much greater attention to
details of styling and finish, so
often criticised in the past. And
in almost every case perform-
ance—and particularly handling
qualities—has been improved
with very little loss of fuel-
consumption.”
To those reasons “Man-
chester Guardian” adds that
“although the American auto-
mobile-industry produces its
own version of sports-cars (and
cars with remarkable perform-
ance among them) the sports-
car as we understand it remains
a European, and essentially a
British, product”:
“There is no clear reason for
this, except, perhaps, that
motoring in Europe has
retained traces of its origin
as a passionate hobby for
longer than it has in the
United States, where, for a
generation, the car has been
a transport rather than an
object of eccentric devotion.
“But within the huge motor-
ing population of the United
States there remains a keen
minority not only among
young people—as passionately
interested in the individual per-
formance of cars as anybody
on this side of the Atlantic.
The success of British sports-
cars in international racing has
naturally won esteem for them
in America. All this helps to
explain the appeal (very
valuable in terms of dollars)
of the Jaguar, Aston-Martin,
M.G., T.R.3, Austin-Healey,
and other such enthusiasts’ cars
to a substantial minority of
American motorists.
“Another thing that seems to
have been happening is that a
considerable number of
Americans have discovered
that the compact British car (or
German, French or Italian
cars, for that matter) is a great
deal easier to park than the long
and wide vehicles that come
from their own automobile-
industry. This does not mean
that American motorists are
deserting their own auto-
mobiles (there would be im-
pressive reactions from Detroit
if they were), but it probably
does mean that a good many
two-car families are deciding
that a ‘small’ British car makes
a very good shopping vehicle.”
Various Voices
Chancellor of the Exchequer,
Mr. Thomey croft: “The choice
is. not really between the
strength of the pound sterling
an*d full employment, for in
the long run the first is a
prerequisite to the second.
There is little comfort that
trade-unions or employers can
take in higher wages or larger
dividends if they are to be
paid in terms of constantly
depreciating pounds.”
* * *
Gilbert Perier ( president,
Sabena World Airlines ): “I
have the strange feeling, thanks
to that big ball turning around
the earth in 95 minutes, that
aviation has definitely joined
the solid group of old and
classical transportation indus'
tries on the surface of the
earth.”
* * *
Britain's Minister of Defence,
Duncan Sandys : “If once the
Great Powers could agree to
disarm and to set up a system
of international control, we
should have gone a good way
along the road which I hope
will lead us eventually to the
establishment of a world
authority with a world police-
force. You may think this is
starry-eyed idealism. As
Minister of Defence, with my
feet fairly well on the ground,
I believe that in the long run
nothing short of that will really
work.”
* * *
Mr. Nehru: “Communist
thinking is completely out of
date. It practically consists of
repetition of a few slogans. It
does not consist of the mind
functioning.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Budget Session
At every Budget session of
Parliament, the Federal
Treasurer chants: “The pro-
posed tax is estimated to bring
in an additional £2.142857
million during the current
financial year and £7.6 million
for a full year. The proposed
handouts will cost the
Treasury £.75 million for the
current financial year and
£6.606 million for a full year.”
With similar regularity, the
Opposition, in chorus and solo,
renders with appropriate
applause its leader’s senti-
mental ballad, “Too little —
too late —too often,” designed
to touch the stony heart of the
Treasurer and effect an
increase in aged and other
pensions to date from the first
day of the financial year.
All this rigmarole about the
estimated revenue and expendi-
ture for the current year and
for a full year, and the Opposi-
tion’s reasonable plea for retro-
spective payments of largesse
to July 1, would be avoided if
the Budget session were held
immediately after the Easter
recess, and before the com-
mencement of the financial
year. Are there any insuperable
difficulties involved?
If the inhospitable winter
climate of the seat of govern-
ment is too rigorous for our
politicians, then why not end
the financial year on some other
date and stop this fantastic
business of budgeting for a
financial year, five - twelfths
already spent, and a full year
of doubtful origin.
Still, Budgetary problems
have been with us for a long
time. My own old man in-
stilled the following little ditty
into my receptive skull m
kindergarten days:
To be or not to be,
That’s the question;
Whether it is not better,
In love-like hours,
To keep your masters waiting,
As Parkes did
With his best of mates,
When he kept them waiting
For the Estimates.
The little dig at S’ Enery's
dalliance in Hymen’s rosy
bower was not lost on the old
ziffs of last century. —Y. Mee
(N.S.W.).
Council Finance
I can’t agree with “Waddlin’
Willie’s” suggestion for a
Greater Melbourne Council
(B. 30/10/’57). In these days
of increasing centralisation,
when authorities remote from
those they allegedly serve have
a habit of imposing grandilo-
quent and expensive schemes
upon the community, there is
a very definite need to retain
the individual local authority,
which is limited in powers and
answerable for its actions to the
ratepayers.
But I’m all for “W.W.’s”
central plant-hiring scheme.
Much of the equipment owned
by Melbourne municipal
councils is out-of-date and in-
efficient by modern standards;
some of the rolling-stock seen
on the roads should have been
scrapped 20 years ago. But
where equipment is used only
intermittently, councils are
often reluctant to spend a
large sum in scrapping and
replacing it.
In the building-industry the
bulk of the heavy equipment
used by the contractors is
hired for the period for which
it is required. Building firms
have found .that it is far more
economical to hire efficient
modern plant than to invest
large capital sums in equipment
which is not continuously in
use. Private road-contractors
also make extensive use of
hired plant.
The establishment of a
central hiring-bureau for plant
required by municipal councils
would enable them to use the
latest machines without heavy
capital expenditure and would,
to a large extent, obviate the
need for a greater metropolitan
council. — Wusslean (Vic.).
N.Q. Capital
All this talk about finding a
new capital city for a new State
in North Queensland follows
the same old plan—dig in where
things are most congested ; add
centralisation to developed
areas ; get away south as far
as possible. Some of the places
quoted, all with undoubted
rights, have been Mackay,
Bowen, Cairns, Emerald,
“I came in to ask you for a rise , boss—but could I have a secretary instead ?”
Townsville, Charters Towers,
although I haven’t noted
Camooweal, Birdsville and
Urandangie putting in a
claim.
I nominate Cooktown. It
has a good port, and before
Federation all the 8.1. ships
and many overseas liners used
to moor at the stone wharf.
Cooktown is perfectly
sheltered and has the wide
mouth of the Endeavour River
in which a ship can swing. It
may need dredging, but the
natural features are there. It
has rich land in endless acres
behind it, undeveloped mines
at its back-door, and whips ot
good water. It has area, scope,
variety, and it can take a large
population, which would surely
follow any Government centre.
Cooktown also has the begin-
ning of a railway into the
interior—to Laura.
Look at Cooktown on the
map. It is at the base of the
Cape York Peninsula, and is
as central as any coastal town
can be. That peninsula, apart
from goldfields, bauxite and
many millions to be spent on
it, has richness of its own. The
climate is good, the fruit
delicious, and tourist attractions
abound. The rainfall is ample
—an annual average of
69.93 in. If Cooktown were the
capital it would draw the rest
of the State to it and be a
worthy centre.—H. G. L. (Q.).
W.A. Cement Inquiry
In The Bulletin of Sep-
tember 11, 1957, on pages 46
and 47, a contributor gave an
inaccurate account of pro-
ceedings taken against Cock-
burn Cement Pty., Ltd., and
Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.,
under the West Australian
Unfair Trading and Profit
Control Act of 1956.
The facts of the case are, in
brief, that under the Unfair
Trading and Profit Control
Act, Cockburn Cement Pty.,
Ltd., is charged with unfair
trading, in that on and con-
tinuously since the coming into
operation of the Act, and up
to the date of the charge,
Cockburn Cement continued to
use two indentures, both dated
November 1, 1956, and made
between Cockburn Cement
and Swan Portland Cement,
Ltd., and Cockburn’s rights
and powers thereunder to
monopolise, or to attempt to
monopolise, or combine with
Swan to monopolise, a part of
the trade or commerce within
W.A., namely, the trade in
Portland cement.
Cockburn Cement Pty., Ltd.,


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 7878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. TKWTS F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STIJCAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in alt Stales Agencies in all Country Centres
O*
l
ATOM FAU OUT
DANGER
I?£Ts
DOOm £d
OUR DOG READS
THE NEWSPAPERS...
—says Mr. McTwiddle of Bulla Bulla
Not so very unusual. In these days of space-travel,
of course, a dog must keep abreast of world affairs,
but the intensive training programmes necessary to
fit a dog for his many roles often leave little leisure
time for reading.
As a reader of “The Bulletin” you know that the
“Uncabled Additions” pages would be just his meat,
quickly digested and satisfying—the complete diet
for the busy dog.
Do you know the master of a busy dog, or a dog
with a busy master? '
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
te JiuUetta
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM
THE FAMILY
The master may be your brother, a son at the uni-
versity, a friend or business acquaintance overseas,
or your father—somebody, possibly, to whom you
have never considered giving a gift you leave that
sort of thing to the women but what gift could be
.more normal from one man to another, or would
be more appreciated, than a subscription to ’’The
Bulletin” ?
A greetings-card announcing your gift and signed on
your behalf will be dispatched by our Subscriptions
Department to arrive before Christmas.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
0
£
V
:
Swan Portland Cement, Ltd.,
and Cement Sales Pty., Ltd.,
each sought a writ of pro-
hibition prohibiting the
commissioner from proceeding
with his inquiry from the Full
Court of the W.A. Supreme
Court on the ground that the
facts known to him, apd the
totality of facts in any event,
did not give him reason to
believe “that any of the com-
panies mentioned had been
guilty of unfair tra-ding.
A writ of prohibition was
granted on October 15 in
respect of Swan Portland
Cement and Cement Sales Pty.
The court refused to grant
a writ of prohibition in the case
of Cockburn Cement on the
ground that the commissioner,
on the facts known to him, had
prima facie reason to believe
that Cockburn was guilty of
unfair trading, but the members
of the court specifically did not
commit themselves as to
whether they considered unfair
trading had' occurred, or
whether the commissioner
would be able to hold, after
his inquiry, that his prima facie
belief was justified.
Cockburn Cement thereupon
applied for special leave to
appeal against the refusal of
the writ of prohibition by the
Supreme Court.
The High Court stated that
it considered it better not to
intervene at that stage, and was
therefore “not prepared at
present to grant special leave’’
upon the application.
The matter as it relates to
Cockburn Cement Pty., Ltd.,
is therefore still sub judice,
and the commissioner's decision
in the matter was unknown at
the time this issue of The
Bulletin went to press.
TV
Now that it’s had a fair trial,
I reckon we were better off
without TV.
My first objection is to the
bad or unsatisfactory
programmes. There’s too much
blood and gore, to say nothing
of downright bad English, in
some features. And some
programmes seem designed
solely for four-year-olds.
Still, eyen if programmes
were immeasurably improved,
the harmful effects generally of
TV would remain. For
instance, where once the child
home from school would
straight away run out and play
—football, cricket, etc. —now
all that many kids want to do is
sit cooped-up in front of a TV-
set.
Children’s study, too, is
suffering. It would be interest-
ing to see the results of a survey
in five or 10 years’ time of the
proportion of honors-students
from homes as com-
pared with that from TV-own-
mg homes.
TV, too, will cut short the
beginnings of any “liking to
read. As a small pointer to this,
when I got home from work I
used regularly to read a
children’s book to my two
youngsters, who are both just
around the school-starting age.
Now that there’s TV next-door,
and they’re allowed to watch it
most nights, they’re no longer
at all interested in a story being
read to them.
For adults, TV, as far as I
can see, can easily become a
soporific. Some programmes
are educational and entertain-
ing, but anyone .who depended
on TV alone for knowledge or
entertainment wouldn’t get
much of either. Zorok
(N.S.W.).
Road Safety
To say that Australia has
the world’s worst road-safety
record (B. 30/10/’57) is a libel
on the Australian driver, who,
although constantly abused,
vilified and sniped at by press
and radio, enjoys quite a
creditable record on inter-
national standards. The latest
official statistics place Aus-
tralia fourth among the nations
in road-safety, following
Canada, U.S.A. and New
Zealand. The position of last
in the Safety Stakes goes to
Portugal, where fatalities per
10,000 vehicles are about six
times as great as in Australia.
In an average year road
traffic accounts for about 45


per cent, of total accidental
deaths. “Falls” are the next-
biggest killer, accounting for
20 per cent., although nobody
seems to worry about publicity
blasts to reduce that figure. In
a typical year, of the total
deaths caused by road-traffic,
drivers are officially held
responsible for 44 per cent,
and pedestrians for 20 per sent.
The other causes include
motor-cyclists, pedal cyclists,
passengers, mechanical failure,
etc. Rotten roads never appear
in any official statistics.
These figures indicate that,
of the total accidental deaths in
an average year, drivers of cars
and trucks are responsible for
about 20 per cent. That figure,
although much lower than one
would suppose from the intense
publicity directed at drivers, is
still too high.
Drivers come under different
categories. There is the good
driver good, because his
temperament wouldn’t let him
be otherwise. He needs neither
educating nor traffic-police to
make him conform to correct
standards.
Then there is the “shrewd”
driver who knows how to be
good, but isn’t always. He
doesn’t need educating either,
but he needs a traffic-cop.
Then there is the “fool”
driver who just doesn’t know—
he needs both educating and
traffic-cop.
Finally comes the driver,
“Your dinner is in the oven !”
who is a damn’ fool outside a
car as well as in one. Nothing
can cure him. Unfortunately,
when licences are being given
out he is legally entitled to one
so long as he can handle his car
to the tester’s satisfaction.
It is a sad reflection that the
damn’-fool driver is not always
directly involved in the
accident he causes ; only too
often he escapes scot-free while
innocents suffer. How to stop
him is the jackpot question of
the age. —Pip (N.S.W.).
Tax-concessions
The Postmaster - General
lately announced that a further
portion of the very-high-
frequency spectrum would be
given to Australian amateur
radio-operators until the end
of the International Geo-
physical Year in * recogni-
tion of “the splendid work they
are doing foiMhe community.”
This was a welcome gift, but a
more beneficial one would be
sales-tax concessions on the
equipment the “hams” are
buying.
For many years now the
Wireless Institute of Australia,
the oldest recognised body of
amateur radio-operators in the
world, has been unsuccessfully
seeking sales-tax concessions
for its members. The work
done by Australia’s hams is
unique, particularly in times of
bushfires, floods, etc. At Mait-
land (N.S.W.) last year one of
them was credited with saving
many lives and was sub-
sequently awarded the M.B.E.
Hundreds of others through-
out N. S. Wales were on the
job for days on end handling
emergency traffic.
1 lately spent a quiet even-
ing browsing through the
records of the Wireless Insti-
tute of Australia, and from
them I put together a story
filled with excitement c&d
enthusiasm —the basis of it
truly amateur. From as early
as 1920 the Australian radio
hams were organising them-
selves and helping out when
required. During World War
II the vast majority of their
numbers joined the armed
Services. In the mid-1930’s they
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 460
ACROSS
I—Within1 —Within 24 hours a theologian is ~a father. (5)
4 —Blighting humorist and he use the telephone. (9)
8 — Wine-bar tin spoilt Rabaul’s neighborhood. (3, 7)
9- —Boldrewood backing the mould used for the driest
sherries. (4)
11 —Trump adornment with a frilly look. (4)
12— A berry to pelt the footsore. (10)
14—Surfeited preposition fancies it's
very active-minded. (4, 2,5)
18 —The two age and change into a
mild curse. (11)
21 —Concrete may be bought thus,
Deary. (5-5)
23 —Pit isn’t yours or theirs. (4)
25 — Spice taken in hand by a cave-
man. (4)
26 — Cubed star could be taken away.
(9)
27 — Red star to disqualify the heart
of Alan. (9)
28— days given to the alternative
dignitary. (5)
DOWN
1— —One reason for scratching 500
and 11 across. (8)
2 Feathers to season a sudden
descent from authority and
success. (8)
3 Staple anecdote. (4)
4 Willow twig depriving 4-across of
its jewellery. (s)'
5 The weakest batsmen work for
the piano or violin illustration at
the finish. (9)
6 Oils go to make homes for cold
folk. (6)
7 Vitality given to “Rheingold,”
“Valkyrie,” etc., when behaving
like a murderous bull. (6)
10 —If rains disturbed a Dutchman.
(7)
13 — Hoyden's grave of the underwater
kingdom off the coast of France.
(7)
15—Tiger ruin arranged by this under-
hand plotter. (9)
,16 —Cabinet girl of Ginger Meggs is
a football score. (8)
17 —He means where you’ll find the
loco’s coal reserves. (8)
19 — A breach of the law on a famous
battlefield. (6)
20 — Cut caudle is crushed. (6)
22 —He carelessly has a. figure
swallowed. (5)
24 —One rural property is a long way
off a thousand. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 459


HE HAS A
RUPTURE
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BAR RE RE
No Pads —
No Springs
The neo - BAB-
bebe acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3z, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
in the
Future
h
A good book is always a treasure. When it
comes in gift from one whose friendship we value
the reading is a double delight.
A friend in the United States sent me an
autographed copy of Rear-Admiral George J.
Dufek’s book, “Operation Deepfreeze,” a salty story
that tells of America’s contribution to the 12-nation
plan for opening the Antarctic to science in this
International Geophysical Year.
The Dufek expedition has laid down supplies
and prepared the way for the two British
Commonwealth parties that plan to cross the
Antarctic continent between November and
February next, under the leadership of Dr. Vivian
E. Fuchs and Sir Edmund Hillary.
When men go down now to penetrate the
white screens around the Pole they have very much
more to their hand than the dogs and sleds and
simple equipment with which earlier explorers made
to their goal: men like Amundsen and Scott, and
Mawson and Shackleton.
The modern expedition takes in “weasels”—-
cabined tractors specially adapted to the ice. It
has electrical devices to warn of the hidden
crevasses that brought disaster in many an earlier
path. Its Caterpillar tractor trains draw sleds laden
with oil, or haul to location the houses on skis that
are known as “wannigans.”
. Heavy and light aircraft, both wheeled and
ski-equipped, and supplemented by helicopters,
supersede the type of ’plane in which Sir Hubert
Wilkins made the first aerial sweeps over Antarctica
in 1928.
But for all these modern aids there is still the
powerful factor of personal hardship and effort,
without which nothing worthwhile was ever won.
The men of various nations engaged on the
Antarctic enterprise deserve our tribute for the fine
work they are doing for human progress. And it is
pleasing to know that our own countrymen, from
their bases, are contributing a worthy share to it,
carrying on the high tradition which Australia has
long since established in Antarctic research
and discovery.
// //as
organised the R.A.A.F. Wire-
less Reserve, some 400 being
called up in September, 1939,
and at least two of them
reaching Group-Captain
Since 1945 the Wireless
Institute of Australia has
organised emergency networks
under the title of Civil Defence
Emergency networks and
offered the authorities their
services when required.
But the hams are still forced
to pay salcs-tax on all the gear
they use for this work, much
of which they make themselves
They pay the same rate of tax
on, say, a valve to be used in
an emergency transmitter as a
teenager would pay on a
similar valve for his record-
player. When the hams are
willing to give up their time,
energy and pleasure to serve
their country they are surely
worth some material recogni-
tion. Admittedly policing of a
sales-tax concession is never
easy, but the Federal executive
and State councils of the Wire-
less Institute believe a system
based on special application-
forms allowing saies - tax
exemption would be workable
and would cost the Govern-
ment less than £lO,OOO. —•
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
“On Trial”
Some TV retailers are offe r-
ing to instal TV sets in homes
for a few days without obliga-
tion. If you don’t buy the first
one they’ll bring another, and
this sort of thing goes on until
you buy a set or tell ’em not to
bother any more.
Obviously, some sets are
being used in dozens of homes
before being sold, so that a
lot of people must be paying
new prices for secondhand
sets.
When you buy a car you’re
not allowed to drive each of
several different makes for a
few hundred miles before
making up your mind.
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
Education
“Suburbia’s” criticisms on
education in N. S. Wales (B.
25/9/’57) would apply equally
well in Victoria.
We have “projects,” the
arrangement and completion of
which are usually a headache
for parents. We have cultural
activities, film-sessions in
schools, and all kinds of educa-
tional outings for pupils. The
general result seems to be
scholars vyhose heads are full
of a remarkable assortment of
miscellaneous information, but
who cannot spell correctly
when they leave school and
who cannot be relied upon to
do a simple arithmetical feat
quickly and accurately. One
only has to employ a few
youngsters who have been
educated in the current manner
to realise how much of the
essentials have been skimmed
over.
I don’t think the fault lies
with the modern generation of
children ; they are quick
enough on the uptake—amaz-
ingly quick in some respects.
But many of them have never
been taught thoroughly.
One reason seems to be that
learning by rote, or tedious
repetition, has fallen into dis-
favor. English spelling and
grammar being what they are,
there is no easy way of acquir-
ing good grounding in them.
The old way was to learn how
to spell individual words, taking
them in groups and spelling
them over and over until it was
virtually impossible to spell
them in any but the correct
way.
Grammar, similarly, was
ground into the pupil, the
result being that when he com-
menced to study a foreign
language he knew his own
language thoroughly and gram-
matically. Under the present
system a scholar often is con-
fronted with the complexities
of, say, French grammar
when he has only the haziest
notions of syntax.
Acquiring knowledge is one
th,ing; acquiring understand-
ing is another. Education is a
combination of both. Until it
is recognised that the acquisi-
tion of knowledge requires
persistent mental concentra-
tion, and that for learning
many things of an elementary
nature the only satisfactory
method is that which involves
repetition of simple facts until
they sink into the-pupil’s brain
and stay there, our education-
alists will continue to turn out
half - educated scholar s. —
D.J.G. (Vic.).


COMPARISON
TABLE (MERINO)
1.
2.
L.
4.
London Spot
Greasy Price
on 60 p.c. Av.
Value
64's Av. Wool
Yld. for Linht
(at 3001b. Av.
Futures.
Clean on Floor.
Burry 64's Clip.
Weight) Per Bale.
stg.
A.
A.
A.
pence lb.
pence lb.
pence lb.
98
110
66
£82/10/-
102
115
69
£86/5/-
106
120
72
£90/-/-
110
125
75
£93/15/-
114
130
78
£97/10/-
118
135
81
£101/5/-
123
140
84
£105/-/-
127
145
87
£ 108 415/-
132
136
150
155
90
93
£112/10/-
£116/5/- ’
'140
J60
96
£120/-/-
143
165
99
£123/15/-
147
170
102"
£127/10/-
151
175
105
£131/5/-
GUARD
su.RiU' as
PROTECTA
ft(g<
TILL
Suitablf for every type of business it records
ail Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Stroncly built,
pleas iny in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOUKNK .
ADELAIDE
PERTH .
W. C. Penfold * Co. Pty. Ltd.
• Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon Price* Ltd.
• Docket Book Co. (Autkj
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'm SENOING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
WOOL FUTURES
TT has been possible for ovef
four years for Australian
woolgrowers to select the price
at which they will sell their
wool, based on the quotations
of the London wool-futures
market.
This market opened at the
end of April, 1953, and has
now reached the stage where it
is the largest wool-futures
market in the world, exceeding
in volume much longer estab-
lished markets such as Ant-
werp, Roubaix and New York.
Of recent weeks the turnover of
the market in London has
represented the equivalent of
approximately 8000 bales of
greasy wool per day, rising as
high as the equivalent of
19,000 bales in one day.
It has been clearly established
that there is a definite con-
nection and relationship
between this market and the
price of greasy wool here in
Australia. When wool is high,
futures are high, and vice versa.
Furthermore, it is the price of
greasy wool which basically
governs the price of futures,
Recent research indi-
cates that when sheep
are provided with a
sulphur - enriching
diet they produce
wool which is not
only shrinkless but is
also 50 per cent,
stronger and is more
resistant to chemical
action. Such develop-
ments make lambs
more valuable than
ever before and em-
phasise the need for
greater lamb care—
particularly during
the marking and tail-
ing period. The
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings for
marking and tailing
considerably reduces
losses and minimises
shock, set-back, and
infection by disease
germs.
although there will, of course,
be occasions when, due to
political buying or selling, the
market will be a little out of
line with local wool-values.
This market trades in a unit
of contract of 50001 b. weight
of Merino wool top, which,
broadly speaking, represents the
equivalent of 35 - bales of
growers’ greasy wool, depend-
ing upon the type.
The market is quoted in
pence and fractions of a penny
sterling, with quotations being
received here in Australia each
day for the closing market of
buyers’ and sellers’ prices as
well as the high and low level
at which business was done.
Trading is carried out in seven
quoted months, which are
January, March, May, July,
September, October, December.
The reason that London does
not trade in every calendar
month is that it has been found
a better arrangement to
channel the business into only
seven quoted months, thereby
increasing the volume in those
months, which makes it easier
for business generally.
The fact that it is quoted in
pence sterling at a much higher
price than the greasy price the
grower receives for his wool
here need not be confusing. As
previously mentioned, the unit
of contract is for Merino wool
top, which is, of cotirse, wool
that has been scoured and
processed to a stage where it is
ready to be spun into yarn.
During that process all
vegetable-fault, dirt, grease,
fat, etc:, has been removed;
which obviously makes the
commodity much more
valuable.
This market is quoted each
week in various agricultural
papers. Quotations are listed
as far ahead as 18 months, and
with the aid of the accompany-
ing comparison-table the grower
can see at what price the market
is quoted in the month after
the date his clip is due for
auction. (It is normal practice
for. a grower to sell futures in
the month after his clip comes
to auction, in case there is
delay in transport or a hold-up
in sales at the selling centre.)
Tlie woolgrower then reads
across the comparison-table to
see what this quotation
represents in greasy pence per
lb. or per bale for 64’s average
wool. If his wool is finer or
broader than 64’s average, he
will surely know from past
experience how much more or
less his clip is worth than 64's
average.
Having ascertained this price,
it is then his decision as to
whether such a price would be
satisfactory to him. If he
This table, based on values over the past two years under normal selling
conditions, is to be used as a guide only as to relative values of wool and
futures.
Merino clips, which are finer or coarser than 64’s av. will realise corres-
pondingly higher or lower values than those shown in columns 3 and 4.
decides it is, 1 strongly advise
him to get irt touch with a
futures broker and discuss the
matter.
At the present time values
are considered to be low for
wool, but I do think it is worthy
of note For woolgrowers that
those who have already sold,
and even those who have yet to
sell, could have selected a
price during the off season
which would have been far
more favorable than those they
are now getting.
This is borne out by the
quotations for October and
December futures during the
months of July and August,
when popular opinion held that
wool would open very firm
and possibly even dearer.
During these months October
and December were quoted at
prices ranging from 133 to 142
pence sterling, which represent
in greasy values 90 to 98 pence
per lb.
Some growers took advantage
of these high prices and their
method of operation was as
follows: They sold futures
contracts at, for example, 140
pence sterling in London to
represent the estimated value of
their clip, so that a man with
350 bales of Merino woo! would
have sold 10 contracts at 138
pence. Then, when his wool
came up in October, and values
were low at auction on the
day he sold, he was able to
buy back his December con-
tracts at 118 pence sterling,
thereby making a profit of 20
pence per contract, or £l5 per
bale, to offset the lower value
he received for his wool. Such
an operation on the futures
market does not interfere in any
way with the normal marketing
of a grower's wool, which goes
to auction through his usual
selling broker in the recognised
manner.
However, it must be pointed
out that had wool risen in
value, whilst he would have
received more for his clip here,
he would most certainly have
had to buy back his futures
contracts at a higher price than
at which he sold them, which
would have been offset by his
extra income here in Australia.
What it really amounts to is
that when a grower selects a
price from the current quota-
tions on the futures market he
is insuring his income within
2 or 3 per cent, of what that


add beauty and coipfort
to your living room
AT SURPRISINGLY LOW COST
WITH WUNDERLICH
W FIREPLACE SURROUNDS A
\ ★ /
zf
X
z
2
» ♦ * *f. * flX*
• « • • ' • *
-t
A variety of designs Is available for open fireplace*,
gas and electric fires—Kosi, Wonderheat and
Warmra/' stoves. Ask your local Hardware
Merchant, 'phone MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.O,
Sydney, for illustrated booklet of designs.
«2fS3
0
CERAMIC
GLAZED
FIREPLACE SURROUNDS
price represents for his greasy
clip.
This form of insurance is
slowly gaining in favor in
Australia. It is possible that
values will return to a higher
“Send a tow-truck!"
level, and if so it could be well
worth while for the graziers to
take advantage of such a move-
ment.
Such insurance costs approxi-
mately 15s. a bale, or less than
1 per cent.
Clive Hall.
Scabby-mouth
“Glenn”: Scratches from
thistles, stubbles and grass-
seeds can pave the way for
scabby-mouth in sheep, where
the disease is present. The
resultant scabs make it hard
for sheep to eat and for lambs
to suckle.
Vaccination can control the
trouble, and it’s a good idea to
take this precaution if you’ve
had the trouble on the pro-
perty before. Cost is Id. for
four sheep.
The technique is to push the
tip of a needle into a cork,
file-off the end of the eye to
leave two prongs, dip the needle
into the vaccine, and make two
scratches with it on the inside
of the sheep’s thighr.
As “live” vaccine is used to
produce such immunity, owners
are not advised to vaccinate
on properties where the disease
hasn’t as yet appeared.
Safflower
“Myall”: Over the past few
years safflower-seed has been
successfully produced on a
commercial scale by farmers
on the Darling Downs (Q.).
They are now trying to get a
satisfactory fixed price for their
product before sowing large
areas to the crop.
Inquiries made by the
Department of Primary
Industry reveal that the seed
is not imported into Australia,
but many hundreds of tons of
the oil are brought in by
manufacturers. The average
import price of this is about
£lB9 a ton, c.i.f.e. For prime,
clean seed from the last crop,
growers were paid £45 a ton,
delivered Sydney, where the
processing-plant is located.
When the cost of freights,
cartages, sacks and cleaning was
deducted, the net return was
approximately £25 a ton, which
was very little more than the
cost of production.
Growers feel that, if the
seed could be processed at a
centre near the point of pro-
duction, the net return would
make the crop quite profitable.
A move is afoot to have the
oil expressed from seed at the
Cotton Marketing Board’s
ginnery in Brisbane. A trial
parcel of 50 tons is to be
delivered, and when this is
processed, the board will supply
the Grain Growers’ Asso-
ciation with data as to the yield
of oil, meal and any other by-
products.
If the experiment turns out
well, the growers may form a
co-operative company and
build a mill for both safflower
and linseed, either at Too-
woomba or Dalby. That, at
least, is one suggestion, and
there seems to be a good deal
to be said for it. Unless some-
thing of the sort is done, it
seems as if the growing of
safflower will be classed as un-
profitable, and will not be
persisted with.
Fallow Dividends
“Wail”: With longer fallows
going out of fashion in the
wheatbelt, it is well to
remember that the best crops
can still be grown only on well-
worked land that has been out
of pasture for about nine
months. Fair crops might be
fluked after short fallows, but
in a dry year such as this it is
the moisture in the fallows
which has kept some crops
going longer than expected.
Many of these crops are on
two-years fallow because
paddocks could not be sown
during last year’s extra-wet
winter. Economically, some
modification of the fallowing
programme might be justified ;
the owner would then have to
sacrifice part of his wheat-yield
for the benefit of having several
weeks’ extra feed, and saving
several extra pre-sowing work-
ings of the land.
Modified fallows are
probably justified, too, in the
25in.-rainfall country, where
clover-ley farming is such an
excellent proposition.
But where rainfall is low or
unreliable the only sure way
to grow good crops is to have
good fallows. Queensland
scientists have shown that
yields of wheat in their State's
20in. to 30in. country depends
more on the moisture stored in
the fallow than on the rain that
falls during the growing season.
Tetanus
“Agricola”: In some soils
the danger of tetanus is always
present. A neglected wound
can mean the death of a
valuable animal.
The disease is caused by a
germ that lives in the soil and
gains entrance through
neglected wounds, or after
operations such as castration.
Because it is anaerobic —that is,
it grows best where there is no
oxygen the tetanus - germ
prefers deep-seated, badly-
drained wounds such as those
made by stabs from horns,
sticks or stakes.
As the soil is the natural
home of the tetanus bacillus,
the ground around old yards
that have housed cattle or other
animals for years must always
be considered suspect. So if
there is any castrating or other
surgical work to be done on


RUSSIAN COMFREY
At REDUCED PRICES due to increasing quantities on Green
Farm, the first farm to' experiment with Russian Comfrey in
Australia, the first to quote a yield on Australian soil.
ROOT OFFSETS 45/- a dozen. CROWN OFFSETS 7/6 each.
Registered post free. For airmail add $/- for each £1 ordered.
New facilities enable immediate execution of orders, despite heavy
bookings. More than 5000 farms supplied in all parts of Australia
including Alice Springs. Glowing reports have been received of
prolific growth at dry periods of year.
Send stamped, addressed envelope for my booklet. This little book has
made Russian Comfrey the most talked about subject on Australian
farms today.
W. F. SAVAGE
Green Farm, Red Hill South,
Victoria.
the farm it’s better to do it
out in a paddock of clean grass
rather than in these dusty, and
possibly infected, yards.
Apart from castration-
wounds and injuries from
stakes and horns, the germ can
get into the bloodstream by
way of the navel in newly-
born animals. It can also
follow on calving troubles and
dehorning in cattle. Lambs
have been known to get the
disease when tails have been
docked. But the worst type of
wound is the deep, punctured
one that has a narrow opening
and very poor drainage. That’s
where the germ likes to hide,
away from sunlight and air.
Sometimes the germ has
gained entrance to the blood-
stream through a very small
wound, which may heal before
the trouble is noticed. This has
led many to think that the
germ doesn’t need a breach in
the skin to get into the blood.
But that is not the case.
The symptoms are very plain,
and once you see a real case
of tetanus it will never be
forgotten. The first signs of
trouble are a slight stiffness.
This may pass unnoticed. The
trouble grows worse, and the
animal has a haggard, anxious
expression as though aware of
what lies ahead. Shortly after
this the animal becomes
excited and takes fright easily.
Sometimes the temperature is
normal. In other cases it may
be as high as 108 degrees F.
Because of this variation, you
can’t bet on the thermometer.
A, general stiffness of all
muscles becomes the most out-
standing symptom from now
on.
If the head is tilted upwards
the third eyelid will flash
across the eye in a fluttering
motion, as though the animal
had something in its eye. This
is the symptom you can safely
bet on. It’s characteristic of
the disease.
It is rare for an animal to
suffer a severe attack of tetanus
and recover on its own. Once
the muscles start to stiffen it is
usually “curtains.” Even large
and repeated doses of tetanus
antitoxin at this stage of the
game will do little good, and
will prove very expensive.
Prevention is the best cure.
If there is any surgical work to
be done, make sure the “opera-
ting theatre” is not an old,
dusty yard where the germs of
tetanus, or lockjaw, hide.
Be clean when doing any
farm surgery. Use a clean,
sharp knife, and wash the
hands regularly in one of the
many excellent disinfectants on
the market.
When an animal is injured,
treat the wound as soon as
possible. Make sure it is
cleaned-out and that drainage
is provided, so that pus and
discharge can get away. When
it collects in a pocket, that is
when the tetanus-germ gets
busy. If the wound is a deep
puncture, it may be necessary
to open it up with a sharp
knife to make extra drainage.
In cases such as this, be
sure you know what you are
doing. A lot of damage can
be done by thrusting in a knife
without any idea what lies
around that area of skin. A
sliced artery can cause a lot of
trouble.
Regular dressing of wounds
and the use of antibiotics has
made the lot of the “farm
doctor” much easier. In any
doubtful cases don’t hesitate
to call in the vet. His fees are
cheap when compared with
dead stock.
Tetanus antitoxin, injected
when the wound is first
noticed, will confer a passive
immunity. The toxoid can be
injected as a preventive
measure. It gives an immunity
for two or more years. This is
a job for the vet. He under-
stands these things, and can
save a lot of headaches. Oh
farms where tetanus or lockjaw
is a regular occurrence, get his
advice about preventive
inoculation.
Worm Research
“Jackpot”: A novel method
of controlling intestinal worms
is discussed in a paper by
I. I. Drezancic, lecturer at the
Zagreb University, Yugoslavia,
and F.A.O. Fellow at the Mc-
Master Institute, Sydney. The
paper is the outcome of work
done at the institute and may
be regarded as an interim
report, as the work is con-
tinuing.
The substance being investi-
gated for its anthelmintic
properties is papain, which
occurs naturally in certain
plants, one being the fruit of
the pawpaw.
Papain is perhaps better
known as the active con-
stituent of the meat-tenderisers
that have been available for
some time, and its action on
worms is similar to the tenderis-
ing of meat.
Intestinal parasites are able
to exist in the stomach and
intestines, a region of active
protein digestion, only because
they can resist being digested
themselves. This is due to their
outer covering being resistant
fo digestive juices. As a con-
sequence, drenches have to be
compounded from substances
which are poisonous to the
worms, and at the same time
harmless to the animal being
treated—which may be weak,
or well advanced in pregnancy.
Papain seems to be free of
poisonous properties. It works
by dissolving the resistant,
outer coating of the worms,
making them vulnerable to the
ordinary digestive juices. The
worms and any eggs they may
contain are digested by the
host —a spectacular turning of
tables.
Results published so far
relate only to the large stomach-
worm {Hcemonchus contortus )
of sheep, but they are very
promising. Total clearances
have been obtained even when
the drug has been placed
directly in the rumen (paunch).
One specially valuable feature
about papain is that it seems to
destroy the eggs as well as the
worms. Even phenothiazine,
the most efficient drug to date,
does not do this. After a 100-
per - cent. - efficient drenching
sheep will continue to pass the
residual worm-eggs for a few
days, so if they are put into a
clean paddock after drenching
there must be a certain amount
of pasture-infection. If papain
is going to reduce this risk it
will be worth its weight in gold
during a worm “epidemic.”
Research is being extended
to other species of worms. It
will be interesting to see the
results with nodule-worm,
which inhabits the lower part
of the gut, beyond the region
of active digestion. This might
prove a tougher nut to crack.
Long-lived Seeds
“Vite”: Eternal vigilance, it
seems, is the only way to keep
a property clear of some weeds.
One plant of curled-dock can
produce 20,000 seeds, which
can live up to 40 years in the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(31/10/’57)
The Darling .Downs and south coast should get
reasonably good rains during November, but the rest of
Queensland may get only light to moderate, patchy rains.
General rain throughout the State in December, with the
possibility of flooding.
Apart from moderate rain on the coast and tablelands,
rainfall should be patchy in the greater part of N.S.W.
during November, but general rains throughout the State
are indicated for December, with the heaviest falls in the
northern areas.
Moderate to reasonably good rains are indicated in
Victoria during November, although part of the Maliee
and areas along the Murray may get only light rain.
Patchy rains likely in December, with moderately good falls
in the southern half of the State.
The central agricultural areas of South Australia
should get reasonably good rains in November, although
falls may be light and patchy in other parts of the State.
Apart from variable storm-rains, mainly in the upper north,
December should be a month of poor rainfall.
The East KimberLeys should get good rains in
November, with moderate to good rain on the south coast,
but rainfall will probably be patchy elsewhere in Western
Australia. General rains may be below average in the
Kimberley* during December, with good rains in the gold-
fields and south-west.
LENNOX WALKER.


Comparison will prove
HOLDEN
gives you so much for your money
Compare Holden for yourself. See how much more Holden gives
you for your money in beauty and roominess. Take a demonstration
run, experience the ease of handling, comfort and performance
Holden combines with outstanding economy. Look at Holden any
way you like you’ll find that in every feature you and your
family want you get more value in Holden.
COMPARE Holden handling ease
Drive Holden yourself. Discover the spirited performance you
get from the famous 6 cylinder 21 h.p. Holden engine. You
never had steering so steady, turning so easy as with Holden recirculating
ball type steering. Over every type of surface and when cornering you’ll find
a wonderful sense of security and stability.
COMPARE Holden economy
Holden economy goes much further than its low first cost it
continues throughout Holden’s long life. There’s the remark-
able operating economy of Holden; its proven dependability, and easy main-
tenance, as well as the wide distribution of low cost factory-guaranteed parts.
And Holden retains a consistently high re-sale value.
See your Holden Dealer now. Arrange to COMPARE HOLD EN
FOR YOURSELF ... BY DRIVING HOLDEN YOURSELF.
HOLDEN
Australia’s
Own Car
Choose from three Sedan and two
Station Sedan models.
FROM £9lO PLUS TAX
GMAC Hire Purchase available.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and Serviced by authorised Dealers throughout Australia
m
soil. Other weed-seeds need
cold conditions to germinate
them. This means that any-
thing but a very long fallow
won’t hurt the weeds, which
don’t germinate until the wheat
is well above the ground.
Although a good kill of
visible weeds often comes from
a single cultivation, the farmer
gets no satisfaction from
knowing that a lot of his work
has accomplished nothing
more than moving the seeds
around in the soil. With some
weeds, selective weedicides can
be a big help. But the final
answer is the same —keep on
the ball all the time.
Epididymitis
“Ponny”: Epididymitis a
disease which reduces the
fertility of rams—can be trans-
mitted from ram to ram,
particularly at mating - time,
judging by experiments at
Rutherglen (Vic.) Research
Station.
It has been found also that
infected rams can infect clean
ewes; that lambs do not
become infected by drinking
infected milk from their
mothers; and that a large
percentage of ewes which vyere
infected in the 1955 experiment
had thrown off the disease
a year later.
A feature of the experiments
with ewe-fertility has been that,
contrary to popular opinion,
the performance of maiden-
ewes has been just as good as
that of their older sisters in
the breeding-flock.
Figures show that 13 per
cent, of both maidens and
older ewes returned to service
in the four-year experiment; 7.4
per cent, of maidens (6.4 older)
failed to lamb after service ;
and 2.4 per cent, maidens (2.7
older) were not served.
Flushing
“Ceres”: With a dry spring
after a dry autumn and winter
in many parts of Australia’s
sheep-belt, most ewes were not
overfat when joined. This year,
more than usual, flushing will
have helped to stimulate good
physiological conditions for
lambing.
Unfortunately there has been
very little growth of spring
pasture or sown oats for this
purpose, although there was
enough lucerne in some districts
despite the unfavorable season.
It has been too dry for sown,
summer-crops to make much
progress.
Where there is no good
pasture or crop growth, high-
quality lucerne or clover-
pasture and oat-grain can be
used for flushing both rams and
ewes. The* main results are
more concentrated lambings
and a greater number of twins.
Farm Hints
“Billjim”: Urine is an
important component of farm-
yard manure usually wasted.
In most animals all the phos-
phates are voided in the dung,
but the pig is a notable excep-
tion about one-eighth is
excreted in the urine. All ferti-
lising ingredients in the urine,
such as nitrogen and potash,
are soluble and readily avail-
able to plants, and the immedi-
ate response seen on a pasture
or vegetable-garden after an
application of farmyard
manure is due mainly to the
soluble ingredients in the urine.
“Hodcarrier”: An easy way
to connect earthenware pipes
if cement is not at hand. Mix
rock-lime or slaked-lime into
a sticky paste, work in sand
to make strong mortar, spread
lightly on thread of pipe, then
fit in and seal with trowel.
“C.A.A.”: Value of sweet-
corn as a windbreak for other
garden plants is not often
realised. A point to remember
for those who save their own
seed is that seed is fairly short-
lived, and germination is un-
reliable after one year. Beans
are most likely to benefit from
the protection of sweet-corn.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Cup Week festivities included a party
for 400 at Government House, given by
the Governor and Lady Brooks in honor
of the Governor-General and Lady Slim.
Both Lady Slim and the hostess were
hatless and wore short lace cocktail-
frocks, Lady Slim’s being of deep-navy
finished with a sash of matching faille,
and Lady Brooks’s full-skirted, in junior-
blue, with the scalloped neckline of the
bodice cut wide to the shoulders.
Lady Carrington, wife of the U.K. High
Commissioner, chose a sheath-frock of
dark tangerine patterned in black and a
white linen straw sou’-wester. U.S.
Ambassador W. Sebald and Mrs. Sebald
came with the U.S. Consul Gerald Warner
and Mrs. Warner. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. F. W. Thomas, wore a slim frock of
black silk patterned in red, blue and white
and topped with a small flower-edged
black cap. Mrs. Sidney Baillieu' Myer’s
peacock-blue frock was patterned in
deeper blue and featured a draped skirt.
Others in the throng were Lieut.-
General Sir Sydney Rowell and Lady
Rowell, Sir Robert and Lady Knox and
their daughter Mrs. Robert Lindsay,
Archbishop and Mrs. J. J. Booth, Dame
Mabel Brookes, Dame Mary Daly, Mrs.
Walter Carnegie, University Chancellor
Mr. Justice A. Dean and Mrs. Dean, Vice-
Chancellor Sir George Paton and Lady
Paton, Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir
Lewis Casson, and Mr. and Mrs.
John Grimwade.
ft ft ft
Decorations in the Royale Ballroom for
the Navy Ball carried out the nautical
theme, with dolphins, anchors and naval
crowns well in evidence. In the foyer
there was a ship’s bow, and on each table
was set a small white ensign. This was
the first large function attended by the
Governor and Lady Brooks since their
return, and they had with them Lady
Brooks’s niece, Wendy Raphael. A
French-model gown in oyster-satin was
her Excellency’s choice.
The official guests were received by
Rear-Admiral and Mrs. C. C. Clark,
assisted by Vice-Admiral Sir Roy Dowling
and Lady Dowling. The latter (who was
patroness for the ball) wore a Princess-
line gown of white duchess-satin patterned
in a green-and-gold paisley-design. Mrs.
Clark (president of the ball committee)
wore palest-blue satin-brocades. The
official party included the Flag Officer
Commanding the Australian Fleet (Rear-
Admiral D. H. Harries) and Mrs.
Harries, Rear-Admiral R. S. Wellby,
R.N., and Mrs. Wellby, Lieut.-General
Sir Henry Wells and his wife, Air-
Marshal F. R. W. Scherger and Mrs.
Scherger, and Mr. K. G. Luke and Mrs.
Luke (he is president of the White
Ensign Club, to which proceeds of tlie
ball will go).
ft ft ft
Held to coincide with one given at
the Mansion House by London’s Lord
Mayor, Melbourne’s Lord Mayor (Cr.
F. W. Thomas) entertained at a dinner
in the Town Hall, his guests including
the Governor, Lieut.-Governor Sir
Edmund Herring, the Prime Minister, the
Premier and many leading citizens. While
this was in progress the Lady Mayoress
was giving a dinner-party in the
reception-room, her guests being Lady
Brooks, Dame Pattie Menzies, Lady
Herring, Mrs. Henry Bolte and the wives
of the city councillors. Lady Brooks wore
a full-skirted gown of white satin
patterned in tiny pink roses; Dame
Pattie’s graceful gown was of jade-green
faille ; Lady Herring wore black French
crepe ; Mrs. Bolte rose-pink shirred-lace.
Jane Hennessey is the youthful and
energetic president of the Wool Ball
committee, a group of young women and
men who work all through the year for
the Ramsay Mailer Opportunity Club for
Boys and Girls. Each year the committee
organises three big functions: the Wool
Ball, the White and Gold Dinner Dance,
and the Derby Eve Dinner Dance, and its
recent efforts have netted £2000.
Rear-Admiral H. M. Burrell (who was
accompanied by Mrs. Burrell), Captain
J. Mesley and other officers of H.M.A.S.
Sydney were guests at a late-afternoon
party given by Mr. and Mrs. Peter Lynch
at No. 9 Darling Street for more than 180
guests. The hostess wore a sheath-frock
of hyacinth-blue lace, the high Empire-
waistline outlined with a sash of matching
satin. Guests included Mr. and Mrs.
Norman P. Lynch, Paul Lynch and his
fiancee Anne Robin, Captain and Mrs.
Peter Gibbes, Pam Dixon and her fiancd
Dr. Desmond Hoban, Mrs. M. Pierson
Lewis and her son and daughter-in-law
Mr. and Mrs. Peter Lewis, Mr. and Mrs.
Stewart Moffatt, Mr. and Mrs. Alex
Lynch, the Richard Faulkners, Mr. and
Mrs. Theo Scales and Mr. and Mrs. Steve
Martin.
ft ft ft
Bowls of lovely roses from the garden
of their Toorak home decorated the
reception-rooms for the buffet-dinner
party by Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside on
Oaks Night. Welcoming the 85 guests,
Mrs. Burnside wore a cocktail-frock of
golden-brown wild-silk. The host and
hostess were assisted by their son-in-law
and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. David
Raeburn-Brown, who were down from
their property at Rosewood (N.S.W.) for
the racing carnival. Among the guests
were the Premier and Mrs. Bolte, Sir
Arthur and Lady Warner, Sir Albert and
Lady Coates, Sir John and Lady Teasdale,
Lady Beaurepaire, Dr. Cunningham Dax
and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. W. Pultney
Mein, Mr. and Mrs. John Inkster, Mr.
and Mrs. Vic. Nilson, Mr. and Mrs.
Angus Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Geoff Macart-
ney and Sir Frank and Lady Selleck.
ft ft ft •
Ladies’ Day at Flemington, as far as
the fashion-picture was concerned, was
ruined by bleak, wintry conditions. A few
hardy women wore large cartwheel-hats
(among them Mrs. John Mullany, hers
being of white organza and trimmed with
one large rose under the brim), and there
were plenty of pretty flower-hats. The
“sack” made its first appearance, the most
amusing one, worn by a well-known
model, being fashioned of hessian-bags.
(This had been made by several country-
women and was intended for film-star
Elizabeth Taylor when they read that
“Liz” couldn’t go to the Oaks because she
had nothing to wear!) Diane Simpson,
just back from overseas, bought her
“sack” in Italy. Made of white hand-
crocheted Italian straw, it carried a white
satin bow. Of white Italian-straw was her
helmet-type hat, and her huge bag was of
white cotton and straw. Another “sack,”
of scarlet wool, was worn by Mrs.
Winston Paynter; it was bought when
she was in Los Angeles. A button-
through style with a white blouse show-
ing at the V-neckline, it was worn with
a white sou’-wester banded in red-and-
white spotted-silk. *
SYDNEY
Though the tempo of life in Sydney
slackens off for a while about this time
of the year, with the more energetic
socialites over in Melbourne for Cup
festivities, there has been quite a bit
of activity in town this week. The
Christmas season is already sending out
vibrations, and the time of fetes, parades,
annual meetings, breakings-up and pre-
sentation of cheques is already upon us.


On the party front, the outstanding
event was undoubtedly the reception
given by Vice-Chancellor of the Univer-
sity Professor S. H. Roberts and Mrs.
Roberts in the Great Hall of the Univer-
sity. There were over 600 guests at the
party, but there was no hint of “cocktail-
crush,” for the spaciousness and beauty
of the Great Hall made the ideal setting.
Moving through the assembly to see who
was there, one found that everyone was,
from Archbishop Mowll and Cardinal
Gilroy to This Letter. Lord and Lady
Carrington, returning from a Melbourne
Cup visit, were present, also Chancellor
of the University Sir Charles Bickerton
Blackburn. Conversations on many
topics were possible in that representative
gathering, one of the most interesting
being with Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Preston
(she is artist Margaret Preston) on their
recent visit to Africa. The flower-
arrangements were noteworthy, bowls of
massed waratahs calling for particular
comment.
☆ ☆ ☆
The J. C. Williamson production at the
Royal of the Australian play “The Multi-
colored Umbrella” naturally excited
quite a lot of interest, and the first-night
audience was one of the liveliest seen
for some time. The family of the author,
Barbara Vernon, was represented by her
brother, Mr. Jack Vernon, of Haddon,
Wee Waa, and her cousin, Miss Kathleen
.Vernon. Her party included Mrs. Anne
Smart, Alister Smart and Con Fardouley,
who were stars in this play’s first pro-
duction in Inverell. The theatrical
profession was well represented. Noted
Sheila Helpmann with her attractive
Italian hair-cut, Evelyn Gardiner with
Lady Rosenthal (Miss Gardiner left the
following night for Melbourne to join
the Gilbert and Sullivan company for
“The Yeomen of the Guard”) and Doris
Fitton, striking in a scarlet satin theatre-
coat. Many of the audience were taking
hints from the handsome patio setting of
the play, which is done very attractively
in the modern manner.
☆ * ☆
The prettiest ballerina worn to the
opening of “The Happiest Days of Your
Life” at the Elizabethan was Kathy
Murrell’s simple Grecian line in pleated
white chiffon, quite unadorned and set-
off by the elegant black dress worn by
her mother, Mrs. Bill Murrell. The most
unusual hair-do (and there are some
really unusual hair-dos these days) was
shown by Mary Anne Macdonald, who
was accompanied by her fiancd, John
Duncan. To the “puffed-out” effect now
quite common it added a “side-swept”
look and was certainly “different.” Didn’t
notice any chiel ffom the Education
Department taking notes, but Professor
Harry Messel (the most unusual beard)
was there with Mrs. Messel (she wearing
a white Chinese-looking tunic). Across
the aisle from them the P. A. Yeomans
family discussed Japanese food as served
at Sydney’s fairly new restaurant, where
you take off your shoes and sit on little
low cushions on the floor!
One of Sydney's most attractive young
teachers of ballet, Jan Metcalf, plans to
set out for Europe on December 6, her
destination the Sadler’s Wells Ballet
School, where she will further her know-
ledge of dancing. The daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. H. S. Metcalf, of Walroonga,
Jan intends to study also in Paris and
New York before she returns home in
June next year. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
It was inspiring to see over 1100 mem-
bers of the St. John Ambulance Brigade
parading at Victoria Barracks on Saturday
and to realise that every one, representing
a much wider membership over the State,
gives first-aid service at public functions,
ambulance-stations and hospitals com-
pletely free. As the Governor, Lieut.-
General E. W. Woodward (who inspected
the parade), said in his address: “The
uniform of the St. John Ambulance
Brigade is very familiar to the general
public, almost too much so, for the public
tends to take the service for granted.”
Those on parade ranged from young boys
and girls to members who have worked
all their lives in the service, and among
those decorated for long service were
District Staff Officer F. G. Trew (Glebe)
and Corps Superintendent C. C. Dennis
(Auburn), who have done this work for
42 years.
V V V
What should have been one of the
excitements of the week—-the arrival of
film-people Michael Todd and Elizabeth
Taylor—somehow rather fizzled-out.
Certainly they came in like lions, with a
large crowd at the airport and a hot and
harried assembly of press-people; but
their stay in Sydney was marred by
missed appointments and crowd-dodgings,
so that when they left three days later
it was like lambs with few to bid them
farewell. Still, the cheques presented by
Mike Todd at the luncheon of the 47
Club were much appreciated. They were
the proceeds of the premiere of “Around
the World in 80 Days.” The Opera
House Appeal received £3802 (received on
its behalf by Premier J. J. Cahill), the
Royal Blind Society and Legacy each
received £l9Ol, the cheques being
presented to Mrs. Noel Vincent and Mrs.
Lionel McFadyen.
CANBERRA
“Ich weis nicht, was soli es bedeuten
. . . sang the novel invitation which
bade this Letter to a dinner-dance given
by the German Ambassador and Mrs.
Walther Hess at the Embassy residence
to farewell the retiring counsellor to the
Netherlands Embassy, Mr. R. Fack, and
his wife. On entering the Embassy
through an ivy-bordered mock beer-
barrel, gentlemen were offered a sip of
beer from a vast pewter stein, while ladies
tasted wine from an ornate cup —an old
Bavarian custom. Murals in the ball-
room repeated the motif of the invitation,
inspired by a German folksong.
The hostess wore a full-length white
faille gown offset by gold jewellery;
guest-of-honor Mrs. Fack chose a
bouffant frock in white organza and
guipure-lace. Also noted the American
Ambassador and Mrs. Sebald (she smart
in black tulle); Mrs. G. E. L. Alderton
with her husband the N.Z. High Com-
missioner, who retires from the diplo-
matic service early next year ; the Italian
Ambassador and Signora Daneo —her
attractive short frock in black taffeta ;
Mrs. T. Suzuki, wife of the Japanese
Ambassador, wearing a lovely kimono
hand-painted in gold tonings ; the Chinese
Minister Dr. Chen Tai Chu and Madame
Chen, who topped her national dress
with a gold-and-black stole ; the newly
arrived Netherlands Ambassador, Mr. J.
H. Lovink ; Mrs. John Howse, elegant
in black velvet; Mrs. Merrill Blevins,
who wore a long white frock patterned
with calypso-pink butterflies; Major-
General and Mrs. Wilton, of Duntroon ;
Mr. I. W. Bell, counsellor to the U.K.
High Commission; Mr. and Mrs.
Douglas Hyles ; Dr. and Mrs. Blank, of
the German Embassy ; and Dr. and Mrs.
Clive Statham.
Dancers in Bavarian costumes enter-
tained guests during the evening on the
terrace overlooking gardens illuminated
by floodlights and flaming torches.
☆ ☆ ☆
Student-nurses formed a guard-of-
honor to welcome the Governor-General,
Sir William Slim, and Lady Slim to the
first fete held at the Canberra Community
Hospital. Their Excellencies were
received by the chairman of the hospital
board, Mr. W. D. Borrie, and by Matron
Guy. Lady Slim wore an attractive
green-feathered toque with her black
faille ensemble. In officially opening the
fete his Excellency expressed his and
Lady Slim’s pleasure in taking part in a
community activity, since they regarded
Canberra as their home and its people
their neighbors. Funds raised will
benefit nursing education facilities.


the floor of the boat, my
daughter catching a blue-cod
(at last!) and a big parrot-fish,
bright as the bird it takes its
name from ; my brother-in-law
Joe Blakely gravely imperilling
one of my father’s rods as he
bent it double trying to heave
up a mass of kelp from the
sea-bed under the not unjusti-
fiable impression that it was
only a little-larger snapper than
usual; myself breaking my
line, because of an unforgiv-
able tangle on the reel, with
some mighty unseen prize that
was probably a kingfish ; and
Alec Wilson, the expert, bait-
ing his hook with huge lumps
of swordfish so that he did not
need a sinker and, throwing
his handline sometimes out to
the water behind the dinghy,
clear of our shadow, some-
times, in search of stragglers,
to the shoaling snapper passing
in steady procession near the
line of the rocky red cliff,
hauling out one red giant after
another, snapper of ten and
twelve and up to fifteen
pounds . . .
Was there a moon, or half a
moon, already showing pale in
that rosy sky over the gleaming
waters as we came home past
the reefs, the islands, the white
beach of Tapeka and round
the headland into Russell? I
think there must have been, for
I began repeating to myself, in
ecstasy with their music as it
sonorously rose and fell and
changed into the very slap and
splash of the waters at our
bow, those lines from Tenny-
son :
The long day wanes, the slow
moon climbs, the deep
Moans round with many voices.
There is not the freshness of
Nature in Tennyson, not that
essential roughness which is in
the Nature-poets I like best—
Wordsworth, Clare, Hopkins,
Davies, Edmund Blunden—
matching and reproducing the
roughness of earth or salt-
water ; but what music there is
all the same, what melodious
exactitude of language!
So, from rock-cod to snapper
to the Titan, we came to the
supreme excitement which
Russell has to offer: sword-
fishing.
For if it is good to sit on a
flat rock in the sun all day and
do nothing, so also it is good
—and especially for one who,
at anchor or drifting in the
roll of the waves, is likely to
be seasick —to be moving all
day, miles out to sea in a
launch powerful and luxurious,
sitting at ease facing the stern
in a special swordfisher’s chair
and watching the kahawai you
are trolling as bait leap from
wave-crest to wave-crest with
the pull of the boat or burrow
in the dazzling wake; while
reefs, rocks, islands, cliffs,
headlands, seabirds, shoals of
mau-mau, kahawai, snapper
and trevalli and other launches
trolling or anchored to some
colossal mako or marlin float
past in what seems some
quintessential dream of fishing.
And if it is good to fill a
boat with snapper off Red
Head it is also very good—
surely the supreme experience
in fishing—to come home with
the mighty swordfish lashed
across the stern: even if that
most regal capture has fallen
to the rod of one’s brother-in-
law, Joe Blakely ... as, alas,
happened.
Even the gear for this
tremendous gladiatorial combat
—for that is what swordfishing
is—is exciting. The strange
rigging which the launch
carries, of high poles over
which your line will be slung
so that the bait will troll
properly on the surface; the
two swordfishers’ chairs,
swivelled and with backs that
can be removed when you are
heaving your giant fish in to
the gaff; the stout rods and
giant reels with miles of tough,
thin cuttyhunk line on them ;
the harness you must put on
to hold your rod when you
have a fish, and to hold your-
self in the boat.
And everything else about it
is exciting.
True, the first day Joe and
I were out after swordfish we
caught nothing. But that was
the day when the wildness of
the sea, high and blue and
glittering after a storm the
previous day, alone made it a
rare adventure; and, because
the boatman thought the rough
weather would keep the sword-
fish away from the coast, we
did not head for the usual
fishing-grounds at Cape Brett,
close off-shore, but ploughed
straight out to Sail Rock,
and then fourteen miles out in
the open sea.
There was the eager antici-
pation as we cruised through
the quiet waters of the Bay,
the air chill in the early morn-
ing and the islands lost in
mist; the sun breaking through
to a world of gold and white
as we reached the rocks where
the kahawai hunt the herring ;
the trolling for these splendid,
strong, green-and-silver fish —
an experience that in itself
would make a fine day’s fishing
in any other country 7 . Two
pounds, four pounds, up to
five and six (the two-pounders
are the best bait for the sword-
fish), they struck at the Maori
lure of curved wood inlaid with
paua-shell, pulled mightily
against the drive of the launch
and came up flapping and fight-
ing over the stern and into the
bait-box.
Then there was the straight
plod for Sail Rock, dipping and
plunging through the rollers.
Then more trolling for kahawai
round that lonely red fang of
rock foaming with angry surf,
while the boatman steered his
craft so close that when a wave
lifted us high and heaved us
sideways in the turmoil it
seemed impossible that we
should not be wrecked. And
then that long, long dazzling
day as we trolled the kahawai-
lures far out to sea and along
in the end to Cape Brett, with
the sun burning our arms and
faces, the blue swells chasing
us from behind and welling up
at the stern as if they would
engulf us, and at every minute
of it the chance —even if it was
not fulfilled—of a strike from
a swordfish.
That was the day, too, when
another brother-in-law, Dr.
Whittlestone, the scientist, pro-
vided one of the most singular
displays of fortitude against
sea-sickness I have ever
encountered.
We are inclined to condemn
the scientists these days for
using mankind as guinea-pigs
for their experiments ; indeed,
for using even guinea-pigs as
guinea-pigs ; but perhaps—not
that Dr. Whittlestone has any-
thing to do with bombs: he is
an expert on pigs, and has
lately been teaching the Indians
how to milk buffaloes by
machinery—we forget that they
are at least always willing
heroically to experiment on
themselves. About halfway
over to Sail Rock, when the
sun had nicely warmed the
ocean, we broached a bottle of
beer. Soon the scientist, who
had never really been at ease
with the rollers, was to be
observed kneeling in the cock-
pit in an attitude of prayer, his
arms spreadeagled along the
gunwale and his head over the
side. When, in about ten
minutes, he had finished his
devotions, he disappeared into
the cabin. Then, pale but
undaunted, clutching the
movie-camera with which he
was going to film the sword-
fish we didn’t catch, he
emerged. “My word,” said
Dr. Whittlestone, in a tone of
intense scientific interest, “that
beer acted on me as a powerful
emetic . .
The next time we went after
swordfish, about a week later,
it was sunny and blue and
calm; a perfect day on a
perfect sea.
We were many times up and
down the coast by the Cape,
close by the cliffs and out to
sea, and round Bird Rock and
through the archway where the
sea has made a tunnel for
itself through the headland,
and out to sea again in a cloud
of birds and back again to
that big rock whitened with
the birds’ droppings, sometimes
passing close by another
trolling launch, sometimes
watching one rocking and drift-
ing far out to sea as some
lucky fisherman played his
swordfish —when suddenly . . .
I forget who saw it first, Joe
or the boatman ; there was a
tail or a fin above the water,
something was interested in us.
It vanished for a dreadful
moment; then there most
superbly it was, a great
magnificent swordfish, back and
dorsal fin clear out of the
water, sword cutting a path
before it just under the surface,
skimming, racing, the incarna-
tion of the sea’s power and
rapacity, straight in one green
and silver rush for Joe’S
kahawai. And he took it!
The curious thing then is,
you do nothing. The unchecked
reel spins, the line runs silently
and swiftly out, the fish
(Continued on next page )


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r. .....
months’ subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD :
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
vanishes ; and, for many
minutes, ten minutes perhaps,
ages and ages, you do abso-
lutely nothing: only the boat-
man cautiously fingers the line,
trying to make out if the fish
is still hooked or not. We
thought it was gone. And then,
quarter of a mile away, far
to the north, at an angle which
seemed to have no connection
with the course our fish had
taken, there was a swordfish
leaping full-length out of the
ocean, more like an apparition
than a fish, flashing, gigantic
and incredible. He was on ;
he was hooked: strike, brake,
hold hard to the rod as the
reel sings ; slip the back out
of the chair and heave, heave,
as if the ocean itself is on the
other end of the line.
Swordfishing is, perhaps, too
much like a gladiatorial com-
bat to take on too often, unless
one’s temperament lies that
way. It is a bit mechanical,
with all the heavy and intricate
gear. It is certainly, when the
boatmen chat from launch to
launch over their radio trans-
ceiverSi too .. toorialy - unless
y° u persuade your mart, as we
d i d » *° switch the noise off.
ad > even to your tactics
in striking, playing and landing
*h e *°° muc h under the
control of the boatmen. But
m s P lte of all that 1 have neve f
fished Wlth such intensity as I
d * d f° r the rest of that day
nfter Joe landed his prize. And
° nce at ieast on any holiday at
Russell, for the glorious day
the sea and the magnificence
of the capture, I would
assuredly tackle it again,
We caught no more fish that
day, though I held to my rod
and watched the leaping
kahawai till the last moment of
daylight as we turned into the
Bay for home. The long day
waned, the slow moon climbed
over Tape k a, the deep
moaned round with many
voices ; and we came round
the point into Russell with the
flag of triumph flying and,
gleaming across the stern of
the launch, immense in the pale
light, Joe’s swordfish.
TASTE
By DAL STIVENS
i < -y AVE a peppermint,”
I—l he said. I took one
JL JL from the crumpled
mouth of the white
paper-bag he held out to me.
It stung my tongue and I saw
him peering at my face.
“Double-strength,” he said.
“I'm losing my taste.”
I told him I liked them
double-strength. He lived near
my parents’ home in Sydney,
but this was the first time
we’d spoken more than a
greeting to each other. We were
now standing outside the block
of flats in which he lived. He
was about forty, tall, lean, with
a sun-tanned, bald brow. He
had large, brown, excited eyes
under bony ridges. He was,
he told me, a public servant.
“Like to see some baby-
crocodiles?” he asked. “I
bought a couple for the kids.”
I went into his flat and there
were the two baby-crocodiles,
only a foot long, basking in the
warmth of a naked light globe
set over the small vivarium.
They lay with their hind legs
in the shallow water, resting
long beaklike snouts on the
sand. Our steps shook the
vivarium and the water stirred
over the submerged, patterned
hides, magnifying them.
“Pretty little things, aren’t
they?” he said.'
And they were, too. Em-
bryonic and helpless, with large
nostrils and eye-ridges and
large honey-colored persis-
tently-blinking eyes. At one
and the same time, very young
and very, very old. Primeval.
“Pity you can’t do something
to stop them growing,” he said.
“You’d think the scientists
could find something.”
Out of the corner of my eye
I saw his wife’s plump red
lips curl scornfully.
T WAS living in Canberra and
soon afterwards I went
abroad for seven years. When
I returned to Sydney to see my
parents I ran into Sawer in
the street. As before there were
peppermints.
“Triple-strength,” he said.
“I'm losing my taste. Like to
to see the crocodiles?”
They were six-feet long now
and sleeping on the lounge-
room carpet. Sawer walked
quickly over to them. I followed
more cautiously. A musky
smell tickled the back of my
nose.
“They’re all right,” he said.
“It’s only fifty-five degrees.
Cold-blooded, you know. You
ought to see them when I lift
it to eighty-five. They really
come to life then!”
The peppermint was blister-
ing my tongue. “I suppose so,”
I said.
“Like to see it?”
“What?” I asked.
“Tropical temperature,” he
said. He crossed to the wall
near the door and pulled
switches. I realised then that
it was a central-heating control-
board. “I put in the plant for
the crocodiles,” he said. “It
will take a little time to warm
up.”
I became suddenly aware of
an overwhelming charnelhouse
smell. Sawer was watching my
face; his winking brown eyes
must have seen the involuntary
twitch of my nostrils.
“Crocodiles have tearing
teeth only,” he said.
“Yes,” I said, but only half-
comprehending.
“They can’t chew their food,”
he said. “I have to let it decay.”
I nodded to show him I
understood.
“Hard on the family, though,”
he said. He wound long fingers
together. “They’re out for the
day,” he added. “I buy horse-
flesh in bulk.”
I pulled out a handkerchief
and wiped my brow.
“Warming up, eh?” Sawer
said happily. He shook the
peppermint-bag under my nose.
He poked out a finger and I
looked where he pointed. The
crocodiles were padding about
the room, opening serrated
jaws. “Won’t harm you,” he
said. “Friendly, really. Those
scientists ought to be able to
find something to stop them
growing any bigger. Otherwise
I'll have to give them to the
Zoo.”
A FTER that I went to live in
Melbourne, and then
abroad. I was away ten years.
Sometimes I wondered about
Sawer. When I met him again
it was in Pitt Street, in the heart
of Sydney.
He was older, of course. His
eyes had grown more lambent
and his eyebrows had thinned
so that the bony ridges above
them were accentuated. He
was shabbily dressed.
“How’s the family?” I asked.
“Quite well —so I believe,” he
he said. “My wife left some
years ago. She got the custody
of the children.”
“I’m sorry to hear that,” I
said.
Sawer blinked vaguely. I
realised he wasn’t listening to
me. He was agitatedly looking
at his wristwatch.
“Got to hurry if I’m to order
some more horseflesh.”
He pulled out a bag of
peppermints,
“Might be a bit fierce for
you,” he said. “Quadruple-
strength.”


forgetting the whole business. The
battered thief goes to jail for life (15
years) and Superintendent Fields gets
the coveted Commissionership of
Police.
Waten tells his story well enough, but
his prose no longer has the sensitivity
of his book of short-stories, “Alien
Son,” a sensitivity which was already
being weakened by what might be
called applied ideas in his first novel,
“The Unbending.” The detailed scenes
in the night-club, the brothel and the
sly-grog joint read rather as though
they had been told to him than
observed.
It is a book that would rank high
among the common run of paper-
backed crime-stories, but only there.
Art-dealers
At the age of 83 James Henry
Duveen has completed the first half of
a projected two-volume biography of
his family, The Rise of the House of
Duveen (Longmans); the biography is
limited to those of the family who dealt
in art, and that’s plenty. *
It is a close little group, all descended
from one Joel Joseph, a Paris art-
dealer in the middle of the 18th
century, and more nearly from Henoch
Joseph, whose branch of the family
had fled the French revolution to
Holland; he had an ironworks at
Meppel; and when it became neces-
sary for Jews to take surnames his
family had chosen “du Vesne,” after
a French grandmother.
From this ironmaster’s son, Joseph
Henoch, were descended the two of
the three Duveens who were to become
the world’s greatest art-dealers, the
brothers Joel Joseph (Sir Joseph) and
Henry, while their sister Betsy married
one of the Hangjas branch of the
family who had an art-dealer’s business
in Haarlem; Betsy was the mother of
James, the author of this biography.
Uncle Joel’s son Joe completes the list
of leading characters: he became Lord
Duveen of Millbank, who raised the
firm of Duveen Brothers “to a height
which may never again be equalled.”
But, says James, Uncle Joel was the
important one. On the failure of his
father’s ironworks, he went with a
letter of introduction to Hull; and
there he worked so brilliantly in a big
produce-firm that he felt he should be
made a partner. The firm not agree-
ing, he walked out into a Dutch
produce-partnership, and this not
prospering, he went to Holland with his
sweetheart’s brother and, consulting
James’s grandfather, the Haarlem art-
dealer, speculated in a dozen cases of
Chinese porcelain and began the
highly profitable business of disposing
of them to English dealers.
They extended their operations to
antique furniture and tapestry, ransack-
ing Holland for rarities which, from
their base at Hull, they sold all over
the north of England. Then Uncle
Joel was called urgently to Holland to
deal with his young brother Henry,
who was seeing too much wild life
and had tried to elope with a 16-year-
old girl. Uncle Joel decided to exile
Henry to New York, to represent him
there, and, having overbought for the
New York market, went over himself,
insisted on having a more imposing
showroom and paid his expenses by
making a first sale of a set of Gobelin
tapestries for £30,000.
Then Uncle Joel went back and
opened his first London sales-room in
1879. Meanwhile his sister Betsy’s
husband, Henri Hangjas, who might
have become his European partner,
had died, and Betsy, after some excit-
ing adventures in art-dealing to main-
tain her husband’s business, suffered
herself to be married to yet another
cousin, Joseph Duveen. Her son, the
author, now growing up, was early
inducted into art-dealing on his uncles’
behalf (did he not buy three genuine
Ching-Hoa Nankin vases for £7 10s.
that his Uncle Henry had thought
valueless, and secure a house for
£I4OO that had £4OOO-worth of
Beauvais and Lille tapestries behind the
wallpaper?) and fell in love with
Esther, Uncle Joel’s daughter.
The family disapproved the match
on the ground of too close relation-
ship, and affianced Esther to the most
important of Paris art-dealers, twenty
years her senior. Esther didn’t like
the engagement, and it might have
been broken, but her brother Joe over-
came her objections; the marriage
proceeded, and James had to wait
twenty years to marry her.
This was the first time that Cousin
Joe crossed James’s bows; and the rest
of this book, as it concerns biography,
is mainly an account of Cousin Joe’s
enmity for James. It was what one
might call a contingent enmity.
Cousin Joe, the future Lord Duveen,
was not merely ambitious to be great;
according to the author, he wanted
to be unique: the Great, the Only, and
the Last Duveen. For that reason,
says James, he worked against his
father’s securing a baronetcy—that
would have handed the title down
indefinitely. Nor did he want James
Duveen in the firm—that would have
kept the name in the business; and,
in fact, he left the business to his sister
Esther’s son by her first marriage, a
Lowengard.
Moreover, he didn’t even like having
another Duveen in England, and when
James Duveen was established in
business at Liverpool Cousin Joe, by
a subterfuge, left some valuable pieces
in his office to be seen by a wealthy
buyer who was under the impression
that James was saving them for him.
And finally, when James Duveen defied
him and opened for business in
London, Cousin Joe spoke so damag-
ingly of him that James had to sue,
and got a farthing damages.
Even in this verdict James felt he
had the worse end of the stick, but a
few months later the New York branch
of Duveen Brothers was charged with
Customs evasion (which ultimately cost
them £450,000), and the New York
“Herald” quoted an English dealer as
suggesting that James had supplied the
information. James went the New York
“Herald” for libel. Uncle Henry
sought the aid of James’s mother,
Esther, and to please mother, James
saw his hated Cousin Joe, and being
told that the New York “Herald” was
helping the firm with their Customs
case, agreed to drop his action. It
was found eventually that the Customs
had got their information from one
of the firm’s American bookkeepers.
Finally, when old Uncle Joel was
sick and sent for James to give him
some more facts for the biography he
was even then writing, Cousin Joe saw
that James was not admitted.
All this, with its subsidiary details,
would be interesting enough as an
insight into the ways of unusual
businessmen and big family businesses;
but the stories of art-dealing which
accompany it have more variety and
excitement still. It is not so much the
million-pound deals that are exciting,
although the picture of James over-
coming his uncle’s objections to
Rembrandt’s ugly old women to such
an extent that he paid £920,000 for
the Rudolph Kann collection is not
without its points; but for real excite-
ment, take the story of how James
attended an auction in an old Liverpool
house and merely by feel identified
Gobelin tapestry under the chintz
cover of an ancient sofa on which he
sat.
Thoroughly aroused, he found more
Gobelins under the coverings of some
window-seat cushions, evaded another
dealer who was watching him like a
hawk and, by getting some friends to
bid for him, secured the lot for 355. He
sold them that night to the hawklike
dealer for £1210; and the dealer took
them straight to London and sold them
at £IOOO profit in time to meet the
cheque, having been broke when he
wrote it.
He puts the reader present while he
explains haltingly to Lord Leverhulme,
then Mr. W. H. Lever, that under a
varnish glaze on the bottom of some
Chinese porcelain vases was “one of
the most indecent pictures I have ever
seen”; and allows you to feel the
shock upon first looking at Pierpont
Morgan’s nose, for which he was com-
pletely unprepared, so much so that


The perfect gift hook for Christmas
TIME AND THE HOUR
Howard Spring
Howard Spring, well-known author of My Son, My Son, Fame Is the
Spur, etc., here demonstrates his superlative gift for the faithful portrayal
of many and varied characters in a novel which will delight his host of
admirers and give pleasure to all who read for enjoyment.
Ready
Now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
At all
Booksellers
LATEST AUSTRALIAN BOOKS . . .
Bragalow
by k. 8. Porteous. The many problems,
including affairs of the heart, that have
to be overcome when a young man is
given the task of pulling a station
property together, make this book a first-
class story of outback Australian life.
17/- (post lOd.)
Soldier Surgeon in Malaya
by Thomas Hamilton. Based on a diary
Hamilton kept as a Japanese p.0.w., this
book is a record of the work done by the
2/4th A.I.F. Casualty Clearing Station in
Malaya and Singapore during 1941-42.
Illustrated by J. P. L. Kickhefer.
18/6 (post Bd.)
Available from all booksellers and
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
HC;
nr
ir:
iftt
H
\<y>Vs
l\» k
A Unique and Beautifu
For Son, Gr
Ideal Birthday Gift »
TREASURE
By ROBERT LOUIS
Profuse with Atmospheric Illustratio]
Illustrated by Australian Artist, Willi
Elegance produced by Skilled Pressmen,
and its Companion Volume
ROBINSON CRUS<
By DANIEL DEFOE
Produced in the same exciting style as “TREASURE ISLA
completing a fine Pair of Volumes—a constant joy to the
hook lover.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LI
Printers and Publishers
304 QUEEN STREET :: BRISI
Obtainable at all Good Book Stores
Si'"? hi % 1$
V, "
Per - -
*
?
he feared his show of dismay would
prejudice any chance he had of doing
business with the great American. He
tells the reader what he prudently
withheld from the foremost English
collector of Oriental porcelain, George
Salting, how to tell genuine Famille
Verte vases by the shrinking of the
glaze because of manganese-blue. He
records a really adventurous adventure
in which the head of the Neapolitan
Camorra, having acted as go-between
for a nobleman in the sale of erotic
statuary, was shown that the statues
were modem fakes, and took Duveen’s
part against the nobleman and got his
money back.
And then, apart from collecting,
there is the story of how over the years
he sought, as though it were a rare
vase, the tme story of why the Austrian
Archduke Rudolph shot himself and
his 18-year-old mistress. Finally, for
being able to tell an old Austrian
princess that her tapestries were not
Italian but the finest Beauvais he had
ever seen, he was awarded the secret:
Rudolph had promised to lead a revo-
lution to establish an independent
Hungary, and his father, the Emperor
Francis Joseph, had been warned, and
had told him that he would be stripped
of his uniform.
It is a book which is as shrewd in
human as in artistic values, and for a
man of 83 a really remarkable
accomplishment.
Modem Magic Manual: Jean
Hugard (Faber). A practical textbook
for the beginner by a veteran American
practitioner. He writes of magic with
the wand, with watches, with rings,
balls, eggs, silks, cigarettes, thimbles,
flowers, ropes, money, hats and cards;
also of mind-reading.


The reluctant law clerk . . .
0
iS?
. . a sample of gold-bearing ore.”
No. 1 of a series The story of BP A USTRALIA LIMITED
The streets of colonial Rockhampton were by no means
paved with gold when the D’Arcy family arrived in
Australia from Devonshire in 1883.. D’Arcy senior,
a solicitor, wasted no time resuming his profession.
Reluctantly, young William Knox D’Arcy settled down,
p, as a law clerk for his father.
* for long, though, was he destined to nod and yawn
dusty files. Two brothers, the Morgans, came to
D'Arcy with a sample of gold-bearing ore.
•>ew where there was more like it but they needed
work the lode.
v Arcy raised capital and formed a syndicate
Square mile claim at Ironside Mountain,
Rockhampton.
j indeed, in that fabulous square mile.
When D’Arcy returned to England in 1898 the gold
of Mount Morgan had made him a wealthy man.
With one fortune already won, the restless D’Arcy sought
another. This time it was the promise of oil from the
sands of Persia. In 1908, when D’Arcy had gambled
almost all his Australian fortune on the Persian venture,
his expedition finally drilled an oil gusher.
This discovery ushered in an historic era of British
enterprise in the development of Middle East oil re-
sources. Out of this emerged the great industrial
organisation known today as The British Petroleum
Company Limited, parent company of BP Australia
Limited.
Thanks to the enterprise of William Knox D’Arcy and
the winning of gold at Mount Morgan it can truly
be said that . . •
'
mm
BP
began here!
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
formerly THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
