

(
ofrw 4 **'
e
fa
SOLERQ
SWEET OR DRY
A
The Bulletin
”Accelerated Priority”— pa g e 34
Wednesday, August 14, 1957
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
TIME DEALS KINDLY WITH
DUNDRENNAN ABBEY
IN a secluded valley, six miles fiord Kirkcudbright,
are the majestic ruins of Dundrennan Abbey,
which was built in 1142 for Cistercian monks from
Rievaulx Abbey, in Yorkshire. It was_ here that
the unfortunate Mary Queen of Scots spent her
last night (15th May, 1568) on Scottish soil before
sailing the next day from Port Mary to take refuge
in England.
In its original form Dundrennan Abbey was in
the shape of a cross and built in the Transitional
style of the late twelfth'century. For many years
the abbey, like many other ecclesiastical buildings,
was neglected and used as a quarry, providing
stone lor the building of local houses. This
vandalism was stopped in, 1842, and the abbey
is now preserved as an ancient monument —one
of the finest in Scotland. Here can be seen some
interesting memorials of the abbots of the
Cistercian Order.
The district around Dundrennan and Kirkcud-
bright has many literary associations, and provided
inspiration for some of Sir Walter Scott’s best
known works, including “Marmion” and “Guy
Mannering.” Among modern authors who used
Galloway as their theme was the late S. R.
Crockett, a native of Balmaghie, who wrote “The
Raiders.” It is a region in which lies some of
Scotland’s finest countryside —a rugged coast, wide
bays and inlets gleaming in the sunlight, fine
salmon rivers and many a mile of lonelv glen
and moorland. Here are to be seen abbeys and
castles, famed in history and legend, rich farm-
lands and picturesque villages. It is a region
which was well known to Robert Burns, who,
between the years 1788-91, rented Ellisland, a farm
of 170 acres on the bank of the River Nith,
near Dumfries.
No. 362: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHCNTJER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume. let us find it for you-fiction
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
lee only if successful.
The Red Page
THREE AUSTRALIAN CRITICS
At a time when people are still
debating whether there is enough Aus-
tralian literature for a professor to talk
about, the appearance of John K.
Ewers’s Creative Writing in Australia
(Georgian House), Frederick T.
Macartney’s Australian Literary Essays
(Angus and Robertson) and Vincent
Buckley’s Essays in Poetry, Mainly
Australian (Melbourne University
Press) provides quite a formidable
answer. Obviously if there is enough
worth-while material for three critics
there is enough for a professor.
Ewers, in fact, sets out specifically to
demonstrate that this worth-while
material exists; and very amiably he
does so: —
This book is based on a firm con-
viction that Australian literature is
something apart from English
literature emerging from that
source, it is true, but now possessing
qualities of its own Avhich entitle it
to independent consideration.
I think that Ewers goes astray some-
times in what is always the most diffi-
cult task of criticism, the assessment
of contemporary writing. He gives far
too much space to the Jindyworobaks,
whose ideas, as he recognises, were not
new and whose achievements, except
perhaps for helping to give direction
to the minor but genuine talent of
Roland E. Robinson, were practically
nil.
His array of recent writers needs
sorting out, in what is supposed to be a
“selective” survey of all Australian
writing; and I do not see how he can
reasonably reconcile his doubts about
“Capricomia,” which “may not be a
great novel,” with his confident over-
praise of Patrick White’s “The Tree
of Man” as “one of the great novels
of our time.” A novel is not great
because it happens to have been
written six months ago; and surely of
these two works, ingenious and sub-
stantial though “The Tree of Man” is,
“Capricomia,” with all its excesses, is
the greater.
There are, too, a few gaps in Ewers’s
survey of writing not quite so recent.
If he is going to mention Robert Tate’s
“The Doughman” (which personally I
found indigestible the last time I
tackled it) I think he should also have
given a line or two to Leslie Meller’s
“Quartet” and “A Leaf of Laurel.”
These are not, I suppose, “important”
books; they contribute little to the
stream of specifically indigenous
writing. But they had quality; and
they contributed something to that pre-
carious growth of a more polished,
more civilised kind of literature which
Ewers rightly finds in Kenneth
Mackenzie’s novels.
But it must be admitted that Ewers
does not fail to appreciate “Capri-
cornia”—in fact he says that it was
written with “genius”—and it would be
hard to do any selective survey without
occasional minor omissions. In general
his book is a most useful little intro-
duction to Australian writing, much
improved since the first edition some
years ago, and comparable to the out-
line by H. M. Green, which was
reprinted for literary visitors to the
Olympic Games.
It is pleasant to find a critic with a
proper appreciation of Hugh McCrae,
whose lyrics “will be relished when
much more pretentious poetry is for-
gotten”; and if his account of Katharine
Prichard’s recent goldfields trilogy
seems rather to strive to find virtues
where, except energy, there are few—
“ Miss Prichard does not turn the pro-
tagonists of either Communism or
capitalism into cardboard figures”:
surely the opposite is very often the
case—there will be fairly general
agreement with his conclusion:—
Although the goldfields trilogy is
her most ambitious work, it is likely
that she will be remembered by her
earlier novels, “Coonardoo” and
“Working Bullocks.”
Macartney’s Literary Essays are at
once sharper, more penetrating and
more erratic than Ewers's kindly and
dispassionate survey.
I am afraid I disagree with him a
good deal: about the (fundamental
purpose of art. which he thinks is “art
for art's sake” (if I read him rightly),
but which I, though much preferring
that viewpoint to art for politics’ sake,
would prefer to express as “art for
life's sake”; about the use of off-
rhymes of various kinds, which
Macartney finds reprehensible and I
find delightful; about W. H. Auden,
whose poetry Macartney seems to
dismiss entirely with charges of
“prolix technical fussing,” “precious-
ness” and the like, but whose achieve-
ment in taking the whole apparatus of
modern life into both his vision and
his vocabulary, seems to me—in spite
of all his faults magnificently
courageous and memorable; about
Dylan Thomas, whose lovely later lyrics
I would certainly exempt from any
confusion with Em Malley; about
Gerard Manley Hopkins, who, though
admittedly he has his flashes of “fiddle-
faddle,” usually bounces along very
pleasantly, discovering “the dearest
freshness deep down things”; and
finally, not to indulge in a tedious,
point-by-point discussion, I disagree
with him about William Gosse Hay’s
“The Escape of Sir William Heans,”
that extraordinary Australian novel
which, after many hesitations, I have
at last come to accept—with all its
crazy and brilliant stylisms—in R. G.
Howarth’s terms as a “masterpiece.”
Macartney is a fiery and provoca-
tive writer; and I must say that both
for his prose style (which tends to get
smoky) and for the value of his judg-
ments, I prefer him when he is
temperate.
There is, for instance, his friendly
and exact appraisement of “The Senti-
mental Bloke.” There is his discovery,
revealed without acrimony, that “Price
Warung” was unfair in his convict-
stories both to the officials and their
horses: these wicked animals, said
Astley, though “invariably guaranteed
as of no vice,” “invariably killed a man
when rising three years.”
There is his essay on Victor Daley,
in which I was particularly interested,
because never having been able to see
much in Daley’s poetry myself but
suspecting that I might be making
merely a “period” verdict on it, I have
always hoped to find a critic who would
either confirm or correct my opinion.
Macartney, I see, on the whole con-
firms it; but does add a note of
appreciation:—
If his feeling is not so deep as
decorative- —and it is often charm-
ingly so—the same may be said of
his thought. . . .An achievement
admittedly slight though profuse but
not to be forgotten, especially as
regards a few poems which, when
you come to know them, faintly
haunt the mind.
Macartney does us a service, too, by
ranging a little more widely than is
usual in bboks of this kind for some
of his material. The novels of E. L.
Grant Watson, for example, are not
mentioned in Ewers’s book, yet they
were praised by A. G. Stephens and
Joseph Conrad and should obviously,
on those grounds alone, be taken into
account. Macartney, too, if you can
make out what he means, seems to be
praising them:—
They accrue relevantly to centrally
simple groupings of characters suffici-
ently diversified by the introduction
of others, against an Australian
background which, while it has little
in the way of vocational details, has
not been surpassed as an imaginative
interpretation of the region.
By far the most lucid, the most
consistent, the most profound and the
best-written of these three books is
Buckley’s Essays in Poetry.
Buckley errs, of course. Amidst his
general monumental tranquillity it is
a welcome proof that he is human . . .
though I should not myself care to add
my name, as Buckley does, to the
melancholy list of young critics (and
some old enough to know better) who
have mentioned Norman Lindsay, the
('Continued on page 58)


MIGHTY
the International AS-160 series
** * #
m
m
1
r*
If you are looking at medium—heavy duty trucks,
see the compact International ASC-160 Cab-Forward
Models and the International ASW-160 Four Wheel
Drive for difficult off-highway work. There is an
International truck to exactly meet your job require-
ments.
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 WITH
TIPPING BODY
INTERNATIONAL AS-160,
TRAY BODY
Cl
f
* * * * whichever way you look at them!
f JL
INTERNATIONAL AS-162 SEMI-TRAILER
Truck operators who have been struck by pro-
hibitive running costs should closely examine the
International AS-160 Series as dependable, money-
makers. You can expect maximum reliability from
the AS-160 Series because these trucks have been
hammered through “Trial by Torture” tests, the
toughest engineering tests in Australia. You can
expect —and get —more work willingness and econ-
omy from their Australian Black Diamond Engines.
Whichever way you look at the International
AS-160 Series Trucks—as a maintenance man, a
driver—or in the credit balance in your account
hooks —they are a mighty proposition.
Can we back our statement with facts and figures ?
Certainly ! Call at the International Harvester
Office or your nearest I.H. Dealer and we’ll give
them to you with pleasure.
ALL TRUCK-BUILT FROM THE GROUND UP!
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS KM
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
CKAT ICC i


The Bulletin
Wednesday, August 14, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4044
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEFENCE URGENCY
AUSTRALIAN defence policy appears
to be in much the same sort of confu-
sion as British defence. The post-war
arraying of forces has been in the
main as between the U.S.A., whose
foreign policy was largely responsible
for the spread of Russian power, and
the Russians, whose policy is complete
world-conquest —a fact which dawned
on Washington rather too late.
The growth of U.S.A. and Russian
nuclear stockpiles has reached a point
at which no new Power entering the
nuclear field is likely to be able to
catch - up, however superior its
technology.
The change in British policy followed
Suez events last year and seems to have
been dictated by a realisation that the
British Commonwealth was fast reach-
ing the stage of being (a) entirely
dependent on American deterrent-
power for protection against attack by
Russia, and (b) entirely subject to
American imperialist policy which had
decided to control British policy by
reason of. its dominating military
“deterrent” power.
The full significance of the situation
seems to have hit the British Govern-
ment like a cold douche, and to have
driven it to adopt an independent plan
of which the main ingredient would be
a British nuclear-weapons programme
capable of achieving some initiative
and making it less easy for either the
Americans or the Russians, both of
whom were using the catchcry of
“colonialism” as a means to damp-
down British influence and usurp
control of oil and strategic areas, to
dominate the world scene and dictate.
Moreover, it seems to have occurred
to the British authorities that the
American policy in Europe is dictated
by expediency and that its present plans
are purely temporary and might be
materially altered by technical develop-
ments.
Mr. Sandys said during the defence
debates last April:—
So long as large American forces
remain in Europe and American
bombers are based in Britain it might
conceivably be thought safe —I am not
saying it would—to leave to the United
States the sole responsibility of provid-
ing the nuclear deterrent. But when
they have developed the 5000-mile inter-
continental ballistic rocket, can we really
be sure that every American Administra-
tion will go on looking at things in quite
the same way?
The main criticisms which are being
aimed at the British policy are that
they involve what seems to be an
unlimited, but still ineffective, commit-
ment for nuclear deterrents while
ignoring the realities that side-by-side
with the deterrent elements the
Russians and Americans have both
been developing the means of ground-
and sea-warfare, on a firepower, if not
a manpower, scale unprecedented in
history.
The genial manner in which both
Moscow and Washington have been
ready to discuss open-skies inspections
as a basis of disarmament suggest,
moreover, that both have less faith in
the nuclear than they profess, and as
realists believe in the possibility of war
shorn of major nuclear elements as
completely as World War II was shorn
of gas.
At the same time, the dictum of
General Eisenhower that the produc-
tion of nuclear bombs without wide-
spread “fall-out” have turned them
into “field” weapons has implications
more vital to the widespread British
Commonwealth than to Russia and the
U.S. or to Canada, which is linked in a
unified radar warning-systenl with the
United States, the two central com-
mands being now under one roof.
Russia has certainly not built its 500
submarines merely for show, but to
disrupt sea-carriage and worldwide
communications in time of war and for
attack on outlying ports feeding war
resources to the great centralised
nations. With “clean” atomic field-
weapons in existence, the submarine
has an intensified significance.
Under the impact of the changes,
Dominion defence thought, except in
Canada, seems to be paralysed. India
no longer has a defence force of its
own worth the name or thinks of one
except in terms of warding-off the
Pakistanis if their indignation at con-
tinual aggressions and breaches of faith
by India should lead to border trouble,
There seems to be some careless
thought that the British forces with-
drawn from Asia are to be substituted
by nuclear-bomber squadrons, but
this scarcely meets the situation, even
if it has substance. China is building-up
a huge militia army openly, and there
is no doubt about its expansionist
policy.
Australian defence seems to be in
a condition of flux. It has the Rocket
Range, though exactly what it is
achieving nobody knows. The R.A.A.F.
policy seems to be a hodge-podge.
There has been salutary building of
aerodromes, but manpower policy
appears to be nebulous, and nobody,
apparently, can say what its ultimate
aim is. Thinking is chameleonlike,
now leaning towards American
methods, now towards British. But
whatever the thinking, it involves huge
expense in training men whose flying-
lives are the shortest to fly machines
which are obsolescent by the time we
have them and for purposes which
appear to be vague. However, as the
result of the Mcßride mission an
American mission is to visit Australia
in September.
The British fashion of manpower-
reduction has been followed. National
training has become a mere token
operation utterly inadequate in scale
and in scope. There is no announced
clearcut training policy which anybody
can understand. Weaponry is becom-
ing admittedly more obsolescent, and
there are vague plans to adopt U.S.
105 mm. guns in place of the 25-
pounder; also a U.S. machine-gun.
Jungle-training is still a watchword,
despite the fact that if the atomic
weapon has become a field-weapon
jungle-warfare is likely, in major
defence operations, to provide a trap
rather than a defence. The Navy is
regarded in political circles as washed-
out, and there is no obvious
attempt to match constructively the
increased Russian submarine activity
or to face the fact brought by the
recent Javan local elections that within
a decade the Commonwealth will have
in easy bombing-distance of Darwin,
and of the northern parts of Australia
generally, a Communist Power sucked
within the ambit of the Iron Curtain
and subject to the Moscow policy that
Australia must be denied to the United
States as a base, and that the chain of
islands between Asia and Australia
shall be Communised.
The only important suggestion made
in reference to defence during the past
few weeks has been one that the defence
vote may be reduced to enable Sir
Arthur Fadden to make a £2O-million
concession in taxation—payroll, depre-
ciation, etc. That may be only news-
paper kite-flying. It is difficult to see
why, in the light of buoyancy due to
the wool-market, it would be neces-
sary to cut the defence vote to find so
small a sum.
Mr. Menzies has expressed himself
wholly satisfied with the defence posi-
tion and with the results of the Mcßride
mission. It is to be hoped that the
statement which he has promised to
make will equally satisfy public
opinion. ®


WHO'S THAT JOLLY JUMBUCK?


PLAIN ENGLISH
Rabbit Bites Rhino
The results of the Queensland election
have had effects locally which are sensa-
tional enough, leaving the State party
apparently leaderless following the
defeats of Duggan and Dittmer.
The repercussions in other States are
not yet fully apparent, and won’t be for
some time. The sudden death of John
Cain has removed one of the strongest
pieces of cement which held the Victorian
Labor party intact. And the hunt for
scapegoats everywhere promises good
sport for the sideline spectators, if not
for the participants in the chase, within
the next few months, after the various
Parliaments get into full swing for the
spring sessions.
Mainly the interest will lie in Canberra,
where very peculiar things are likely to
happen—and are, in fact, happening
now. What could be more peculiar than
the sudden emergence of Mr. Chambers
as a big-game hunter? Hitherto he has
been known as the mildest dentist who
ever ran an army, a Chifley-Evatt camp-
follower who through most of his politi-
cal years tagged sedulously along behind
his leaders, cheering for nationalisation
of banking and anything else that came
along, save when occasionally a sense of
self-preservation induced by local South
Australian reactions has set him
problems.
That Mr. Chambers should, directly
after the Queensland debacle, attack Dr.
Evatt, whose Constitution Amendment
Bill, embodying the Stalin plan almost
in toto, he accepted with reverence as the
only means of saving Australia from
economic destruction after the war, was
indeed enough to stun those who have
regarded him in the party merely as a
sound vote for whatever junta happened
to be strongest.
Yet his attack on Dr. Evatt was
unequivocal, and a direct challenge to
the dictum of the dictator of the N. S.
Wales A.L.P., Mr. F. H. Campbell, that
“Dr, Evatt is enhancing his reputation
daily both in the party and with the
public.” This statement was made early
in the week. And the whole movement
was astonished when the mild Mr.
Chambers piped up in his political treble :
Everywhere I go I hear people say,
“Eabor will never win an election while
Dr. Evatt is your leader” I am not
challenging Dr. Evatt personally for
leadership of the party. My challenge is
directed at the harm Dr. Evatt continues
to do in fomenting discord wherever he
goes. In my 40 years in the Eabor party I
can never remember a time when a Federal
leader has not been welcome to enter a
State election-campaign.
He continued that Mr. Bukowski
obviously did not want Dr. Evatt in the
Queensland campaign, “but Dr. Evatt
visited Queensland, with the disastrous
results that were recorded,” and “his
repeated references to Catholic Action
and clerical Fascism have only continued
to insult a widening section of the Aus-
tralian public.”
The truth is that Labor is in a very
difficult position. Dr. Evatt knows so
much about its internal history over the
past 15 years, and the party knows so
much about the internal political history
and associations of Dr. Evatt, that neither
has the courage to face divorce and the
consequent washing of political dirty
linen.
The one thing becoming more obvious
each day is that the Australian Labor
doctrine of loaf and class-warfare, both
in the unions and in politics, is becoming
more and more out-of-tune with public
opinion. Even now the party is living
mainly on political benzedrine —sectarian-
ism and Kremlin Leftism based on the
whooping-up of fears of atomic warfare.
Its platform is a museum-piece, and the
Liberal-C.P. leaders are hoping that Dr.
Evatt will continue its curator until after
the 1958 Federal poll.
Aviation Argument
[From Canberra]
The Federal Government is becoming
very impatient at the dilly-dallying of the
board of Australian National Airways
over the co.’s future.
The Government wants a decision, to
ensure continued stability for Australia’s
internal airlines system.
A.N.A. is reportedly holding-off in the
hope that the Government will grant it
some additional assistance under the 15-
year Civil Airlines Agreement, under
which Government business is supposed
to be divided between A.N.A. and the
Government-owned T.A.A.
Before last week's meeting of the
A.N.A. board in Melbourne, the chair-
man, Mr. P. W. Haddy, was bluntly
informed that Federal Cabinet had
decided there would be no further aid for
A.N.A. The position is unlikely to be
changed by the return of Prime Minister
Menzies.
In the meantime, Ansett’s are biding
their time. They are in the box-seat, and
know it.
Come what may, before long there will
be only two major trunk-airline operators
in Australia—T.A.A. and A n s e 11
Airways.
What surprised A.N.A. was the fact
that Ansett’s have £1,000.000 in cash that
they can put up as part of their £3i-
million offer and can raise the rest within
a comparatively short time.
One means of raising the money? By
selling, if they gain control of A.N.A.,
the DC6b’s now owned by A.N.A. Other
Australian operators have preferred to
run Viscounts under Australian
conditions.
The Salutary Sock
[By “Ek Dum”]
Because it suits the flapper-press to fan
any sensation that builds-up around the
Throne, John Edward Poynder Grigg,
second Baron Altrincham, editor of the
“National and English Review,” finds
himself soundly smacked for disloyalty in
that he does not like the way the Queen
speaks and he does not like some of the
people around her.
The noble lord, whether he be right or
wrong, or whether he is asking far too
much of any human being, monarch or
otherwise, has illustrious precedents. It
has been the privilege of Englishmen
from the Year One to voice their opinions
about the Monarchy.
Even courtiers were unsparing of their
reprobation of King Charles 11, having
carried their criticism of Charles I to the
point of publicly spitting on him before
removing his head. The four Georges
were the butt of everybody —Altrincham
is mild beside Byron on George 111.
Queen Victoria in her youthful years was
loudly reprobated for her way of life
and for the kind of people who surrounded
her Court. And criticism has not been
exactly muted since even in the press on
occasion.
Lord Altrincham scarcely has either the
family or the personal background of a
disloyalist. Indeed, his background can
be described only as Imperial. His father,
Sir Edward Grigg, son of an eminent
Indian civil servant, was military secre-
tary to Edward of Wales during his tours
of Canada, Australia and New Zealand
just after World War I. He was for a time
secretary to Lloyd George, secretary to
the Rhodes Trust. His mother was a
daughter of Sir Edward Deas Thomson,
Colonial Secretary and one of the
founder's of the New South Wales Con-
stitution, who was delegated with Went-
worth to take the Constitution Bill to
Westminster and steer it through the
British Parliament —he nearly became the
first Prime Minister and was, incidentally,
also Chancellor of the University of
Sydney for 13 years. The elder Grigg was
one of Churchill’s right-hand men in
World War 11, succeeded R. G. Casey as
Minister of State in the Middle East and
was raised to the peerage near the end of
the war. His wife, the mother of the
present titleholder, was a daughter of
Lord Islington, Governor of New
Zealand.
Both father and son have been
associated with true-blue Toryism, with
the public service and with the Brigade
of Guards, and the younger member now
under fire was captain of the Oppidans
at Eton —his father was at Winchester.
Whether Altrincham’s criticism is
peevish or apt, it is refreshing to know
that there are Englishmen who can still
stand up for their right to criticise even
the highest in the land, even though the
daily press takes it up for its own sensa-
tional purposes, and others who still feel
that they are justified in punching the
critical peerage on the nose without asking
permission of Nasser, Dulles or the
United Nations.
It is a curious inversion that the press
which so loudly and frequently insists on
its own right of unrestrained licence in
criticism and in snooping and the dis-
semination of rumor and untruth should
wax so indignant at the adoption by
individuals of its own principles.
There are, indeed, some extremists
who wish that even Royalty could bring
itself to be a little more critical of the
general invasion of its privacy. The
spectacle of Prince Philip or Lord Patrick
Beresford heaving out of Royal grounds
some snooping reporter or press-
photographer bent on shadowing Princess
Margaret would at this juncture probably
be received with loud cheers even by the


ultra-democrats to whom the press
generally seeks to pander with' scandal.
A little personal violence has always
been allowable in British life so long as
it is not administered with lethal weapons.
This constitutes the difference between
the English “Tory” outlook and the
foreign “democratic” outlook.
Stalinism in Full Flower
The absence of Bulganin from talks be-
tween Khrushchev and the Rumanians
and Yugoslavs and East Germans during
the past few days seems to confirm the
fact that that so-called “Prime Minister”
of Russia has become a minor factor —if
he was ever anything else —in the Krem-
lin hierarchy.
Both the Stalin system of government
and the Stalinist foreign policy have been
re-established and intensified. The
Government no longer makes the slightest
pretence of being anything but a piece
of Communist-party machinery. Khrush-
chev as the head of the Communist party
is the Government. At his right hand
in his constructive days when he was
building power, Stalin had Marshal
Voroshilov, threatening and vaunting the
military power of the Soviet Union and
its determination to slap down anybody
who dared to invade the borders of
Russia. He has been replaced in the
present regime by Marshal Zhukov.
As a foreign-affairs man and intriguer
Stalin had at various stages various men,
but nearly always Mikoyan as the
manager of internal discipline. And
Mikoyan is now filling the same role
with Khrushchev.
His affinity with Stalin was largely
founded on his training for the priest-
hood, which he shared with his leader.
The political programme of Stalin in
the period in which he was consolidatiing
his hold over the Russian people was his
economic planning, under cover of which
he was able to shape the population’s
lives, move it at will and impose whatever
restrictions were needed to keep it in
subservience.
Mikoyan was the leading all-out
supporter of the New Economic Policy
when Lenin propounded it in 1921. He
was elected to the Central Committee of
the party in 1922. Under Stalin food-
production and the socialisation of
industry were his main jobs. These are
his jobs now, and his experience is being
applied to satellite countries as well as
the U.S.S.R.
On foreign policy, Khrushchev’s plan
is merely Stalin’s plan adjusted to current
conditions. Stalin’s primary scheme to
lay the base for world conquest was to
weaken the British Commonwealth and
divide it, build China into a Communist
country and seize the Middle East while
bringing eastern Europe behind the Iron
Curtain. Most of that plan has now been
accomplished, thanks largely to the
blundering of Washington, which went all
the way with him in breaking-up the
British Commonwealth and destroy-
ing British, Dutch and French influence
in the Middle East.
Russia is now engaged in taking-over
the Middle East. It has succeeded with
the help of the U.S. and U.N. in driving
out the British and French, has secured
domination of Egypt (which it is arming),
has set up Nasser’s dictatorship as a
stooge organising-body for general revo-
lution in Africa, has armed the Syrians,
is arming the Yemenis to attack the
British in Aden, and is obviously behind
the Oman rebellion.
Also, it is covering-up the facts by the
old policy of Communist diversion—loud
talk of peace, and tongue-in-cheek negotia-
tion with the Americans, who are always
ready to talk, for world-disarmament,
which has not the remotest chance of
success.
From the Kremlin viewpoint it is
merely a device to divide Western public
opinion and to provide a background
against which it can paint Western
Governments to their own people as war-
mongers who will not listen to the pleas
of a peaceful bloc of Communist demo-
cracies which have only about 11,000,000
armed men available, plus a full nuclear
set-up and a malign and aggresive policy
for promoting world mischief and revo-
lution.
Stalinism is in full poisonous flower at
the Kremlin on lines paralleling those
which were operating in the nineteen-
twenties. The full circle of Russian policy
has been run back to the middle 1930’5,
and the new Stalin, is firmly on the
Russian throne.
Training Scientists
Victoria has had a visit from the expert
committee currently surveying the facili-
ties and problems of Australian universi-
ties on behalf of the Federal Government.
Like academic institutions elsewhere,
Melbourne University gives itself a high
degree for its chronic state of penury on
the theory that this denotes the unceas-
ing struggle and expense of keeping
abreast of modern knowledge.
Canberra’s committee inspected the
Royal Melbourne Technical College,
ostensibly not in connection with the pro-
posal to change the institution to a uni-
versity of technology. But it is obvious
this change must be made if the proposal
to build a new university to house the
science and other departments south of
the Yarra is not acceptable to a majority
of the University Council for some
reason which has never been divulged.
The University’s position has not been
materially changed since the Citizens’
Appeal Committee in 1955 reported that
its teaching facilities were gradually be-
coming more and more out-of-date and
that many important departments, includ-
ing psychology, architecture and portions
of a number of others, were still housed
in temporary huts; that the medical
school had outgrown itself, and that the
annual intake into the institution would
reach 10,000 in 1960-65.
The need for scientists and technicians
grows each month. The forming of a
Victorian bureau to attract students to
careers in science and technology has
been a recent modest effort by the
Institute of Engineering, and the recent
announcement of substantial increases in
salary to scientists by the Commonwealth
may give recruitment a fillip, but of the
400 increases notified in a recent “Com-
monwealth Gazette” only 64 went to
science officers.
The technical advances overseas,
according to some Melbourne authorities,
are outstripping the Australian, as are the
rewards for the scientist, although he is,
to a substantial degree, responsible for
the national living-standards.
The claim that Australia is a young
country and cannot be expected to
advance very quickly in the technical
fields might be more acceptable if Aus-
tralia really was a young country, or a
young scientist’s.
Architectural Levels
Robin Boyd, Melbourne’s peripatetic,
talented and most provocative architect,
has returned from a disillusioning term in
the United States, where he was Bemis
Professor of > Architecture at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology ;
compiled the section on architecture for
the latest edition of the Encyclopaedia
Britannica; and was granted a Fulbright
award to visit Europe and England to
study the latest architectural trends.
Despite these academic recognitions
and awards, and despite all that was
wrong in Australian taste and building
before he went off, Boyd has returned
convinced that the U.S.’s housing
problems are like Australia’s: the con-
servatism of the people and the compara-
tive shortage of money.
(Conservatives, according to avant
garde architects, are dim-wits who reject
flat-top houses at any price, having
noticed, presumably, the plumbing
difficulties of neighbors with them ; just
before he left Melbourne Boyd wrote,
with a slight smile, of the reactionaries
who still fancied a Georgian house with
a birch-tree in front of it.)
Like Melbourne, Chicago was waiting
for dollars to build a big hotel; average
Australian houses were possibly superior
to American ; the Americans were still
waiting for a Henry Ford to put the build-
ing-industry into the factory like cars;
and, on his return to Australia, despite his
latest background, he was astounded at
the number of new building-projects.
For a professional who, in 1953, was
deploring post-war Australian architec-
ture —“it reflects the soul-sickness of an
alarming decline in ideas, logic and taste,
and a recession in its general standards of
design, equivalent to preferring Ben
Bowyang to Rembrandt” —the change
underlines, once more, how broadening is
travel.
Mr. Boyd, who is a son of Penleigh
Boyd, the artist, has a genuine talent;
his writing is stimulating and has won
more attention for his profession than any
half-dozen of his contemporaries.
It is conceivable that, by further travel,
he may, in maturity, become addicted to,
say, Queen Anne villas, or their
equivalent, with halls down their centre
off which open rooms which provide com-
plete privacy from the rest of the
domestic scene, presumably one of the
chief reasons why a citizen builds a house
instead of living in a flat.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
FLYING home with a week-old baby,
how could I hold baby and balance
a breakfast-tray in my lap? It seemed that
I would have to go breakfastless until the
air-hostess took the baby into the cockpit
where the co-pilot (father of three)
nursed him while I ate, thus adding a
new service to those already supplied
with the ticket. A candidate for the
Queensland elections sitting beside me
and another across the aisle thus missed
an excellent vote-catching opportunity,
but perhaps they prefer kissing babies to
nursing them. Or has that custom died
out too? —“Roni.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: The Australian Girls’ March-
ing Association has grown to 500 teams.
West Australia has 150 teams.
More than 50 delegates, some
from the West, attended the
association’s annual meeting in
Newcastle (N.S.W.), the Federal
headquarters. Marching is
popular in New Zealand, but
hasn’t taken-on with Sydney
girls—maybe they’re too busy
chasing.
“Sister Ellell”: After the bru-ha-ha
had died down over the Asian ’flu and
the power-’t-be had announced that the
signs and symptoms were no different
from our own brand, I thought it very
well summe'd-up by a nonagenarian
Grannie, a patient in the hospital,
who remarked when a nurse sneezed
near her bed, “Now, then, my young
lady, don’t you sneeze near me; I don’t
want any of that Alsatian ’Flu!” Same
old dawg’s disease!
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Narumee”: Melbourne’s tram-moguls
have at last decided to lay no more
tracks ; buses will come, like the trams,
better late than never. But it’s odd that
they’ve ordered the muzzling of seeing-
eye dogs on trams while issuing no edict
on other potential maimers of passengers
—umbrellas, elbows, high heels, pusher-
wheels, sticky-fisted children • and
Monday-morning descriptions of the one
that got away and the shot lofted out
of the bunker to hole-out.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout”; I've given up carping
about the crowds on Australian beaches
since venturing to the Riviera. Better
anything, even bodgies, than the high-
toned exclusiveness which allows private
lordship to be extended over God-given
water and strand with barriers and burly
gatekeepers and notices reading “Private.
Exclusive to the Hotel Splendide”
repeated ad infinitum for every
millionaires’ doss-house along the beach.
»!♦
“Doormat”: Joseph wearing a trilby
hat, with check scarf and jacket, and Mary
carrying a shopping-basket can be seen in
five oil-paintings installed with the
approval of the Bishop of Southwell in
the new church of St. Mary, Mansfield
(England). In the nativity-painting, the
first of the series, Joseph wears a pull-
over and corduroy trousers, and Mary
a modern frock ; and about time, too,
when a film-star’s baby can be celebrated
as a front-page miracle.
♦£♦
“Sevenelms": At the post-office T
chafed behind a philatelist who v/as be-
ing handed numerous sheets of stamps for
his specialist examination ; so my face
should have been red when the vendor
asked me what values I would like on
my 30z.-airmail to U.S.A. I said the
addressee did collect stamps, so a rain-
bow regiment of diverse fauna soon
covered the whole envelope-top. Then
with a twinkle in his eye he said “Shall
we treat ’em lightly?” and swiftly wielded
his die six times and each of the twelve
stamps had a barely-visible cancellation
on a bottom corner.
“ Murdoch , how dare you put me down for only £130!"
P.M. GEE-GEES
“P.M.G. authorities have not yet decided it'
they will issue telephones to Paddock book-
maker T. B. Dwyer tor taking off-course phone-
bets at Randwick racecourse.”
“How very awkward and upsetting, ’
The P.M.G. Department said,
“Demanding telephones for betting !
How barefaced, and how underbred,
Evincing not the slightest tact
Or understanding of the Act !
“If the Australian Jockey Club
Lets Mr. Dwyer use its courses,
As though they were a home or pub,
For telephonic bets on horses
His application-form should show
His office as a bungalow,
“Or place of housemaid-registration —
But that restricts incoming calls
To fillies — well, the situation
Might best be met by hospitals:
‘lf Lady Kate survives her swab
I’ll operate on Honest Bob.’
“It’s not that we impose conditions
On sport and speech and things like
these,
Merely observance of traditions,
Respect for human decencies;
And betting on the telephone,
Though profitable, isn’t done!’’
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


THE two things I most envy Sydney’s
traffic-cops are the confident way
they hang their overcoats on the tow-
away signs between showers and the
lordly way they stroll across such perilous
intersections as Hunter Street and George
Street when going about the city. No
ordinary overcoat and no ordinary pedes-
trian would last five minute s.—-
“Mac Hoots.”
f I ❖ ♦> ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: According to my Sunday
journal, about 120 aromas can now be
incorporated into modern printing. Soon
(it says, as though imparting news) every
publication may have its own identifiable
odor, and £-notes will contradict the
2000-years-old truism “Money doesn’t
smell.”
♦*«■ *X*
“Fenelli”: A departmental chief of a
pre-war shipping-line really laid it on
whenever the Big Boss himself arrived
for the board-meeting. The Big Boss
loved oysters; the D.C. ordered two-
dozen of the best and sent the office-boy
to pick them up. He, unaware that they
had been arranged in a large, flat card-
board box, their succulence displayed to
the best advantage in the open shell,
tucked the box on its side underneath
one arm. After ten minutes’ walking,
and changing the position of the box
frequently for greater comfort, he
presented it flat again to the departmental
chief, who strode triumphantly over to
the Big Boss’s table and whipped off the
lid with a knowing “You’ve never seen
oysters like these before, sir!” He was
right.
♦2* *t*
“Villefair”: “Went out with straw-
hats” was not as comprehensive as it
sounded —straw-hats have never been out
at certain schools. “. . . . with elastic-
sided boots” was another; but there
has always been a demand for elastic-
sided boots among horsemen. The one
I always favored was apt and comprehen-
sive—kewpie dolls were indisputably
things of the past; the younger genera-
tion had never even heard of ’em. Yester-
day I saw in a Sydney shop-window—
yes, kewpie dolls (made in Japan). Seems
now that “Went out with kewpie dolls”
will go out with kewpie dolls coming in.
* ❖ ❖
“Joanne”: On the first anniversary of
the loss of the collier Birchgrove Park off
the N.S.W. coast the crews of the sixty-
milers (coasters carrying coal to Sydney)
and other ships in port, led by union
officials, laid wreaths at the Newcastle
Soldiers’ Monument. Ten men were lost
with the Birchgrove Park; there were
only four survivors.
t
What puzzles me sorely
Is, times out of number
I dance a slow waltz
To the tune of a rhumba.
victoria. C. F. O’Neill.
“What bait are you using , mate ?”
OUT of my limited invested capital
the interest on £3OO is needed to
produce the £l5-a-year it costs to feed
our cat —the meat alone costs that.
Sydney’s population nearing two
million, and- allowing one cat to each
ten persons, the town has 200,000 cats
costing £l5 each a year to feed ; a total of
£3,000,000. To cover this cat-feed bill, if
my arithmetic is correct, it needs
£60,000,000 invested at five per cent. I
leave it to someone else to work out
what pussy is costing Australia and, if he
is still interested, the dog-feed bill. —
“Kuching.”
“Wusslean”: Mrs. Wussleart read me a
news-item about a prisoner being taken
from the jail to a Salvation Army Citadel,
married, and escorted back to prison by
warders in plainclothes. I murmured
absentmindedly, “A man’s not safe any-
where these days” —and then it was on
properly.
*l*
“Arpee”: Sitting at his console, a radio-
announcer looked up to see a woman
peering intently at him through the foot-
square windows in the double door of the
studio. Apparently fascinated by her
restricted view of a man at his work, she
was still there when he looked again after
introducing the next recording. Always
glad to make the acquaintance of a new
fan, he got up, opened the doors and
asked if there was anything he could do
for her. “Yes, thank you,” she said,
stepping inside. “Ground-floor, please.”
❖ ♦>
“Zake”: Having long accepted the
possibility that the shirt I am wearing
could be a derivative of milk, peanuts or
carbolic-acid, I was not the least surprised
when a French textile-manufacturer cast-
up in Sydney with a new synthetic fabric
which he claims is made from castor-oil.
Apart from any effects on one addicted
to nibbling his nighties, I’m intrigued by
one specific question: Social-writers refer
to the “frou-frou” of silk, or the “swish”
of satins; will they use “gurgle” for the
new fabric?
“Jonshaw”: George Farwell was a
little off the beam in saying that Louis
Becke was a teller in the Cooktown bank
(B. 31/7/’57). Becke’s elder brother


“ ’Arvey”: Thanks, “Kalewa,” for
information (B. 24/7 / ’57) about the
British and Australian Army badges cut
into the hillsides near Salisbury (Eng.).
I saw them two years ago and wondered
about their origin. Still in excellent con-
dition, the white outlines stand-out against
the green hills and are a landmark for
miles.
“J.K.D.”: Mention of
psychiatry as a racket (B.
24/7/’57) makes me wonder
how exact the science really
is? I’ve often been in the
Criminal Court when the judge
has called for a medical report
on a prisoner. Sometimes the
psychiatrist gives evidence that
on examination “the accused
declined to answer questions put
to him, and I came to the con-
clusion he was suffering from
such-and-such neurosis.” Just
how conclusive is that? On the
same basis a person who exer-
cises his civil right and refuses
to answer questions put to
him during interrogation by
detectives or who declines to give
evidence at his trial could be
presumed to be guilty.
Similarly, a person who claims
privilege in court and refuses
to answer questions on the
ground that he may incriminate
himself may be presumed to be
guilty of something or other.
Obviously such presumptions
would be legally wrong, and no
judge would allow a jury to
consider them. Yet if a
prisoner who has to undergo a psychia-
tric examination against his will exer-
cises the same right of refusal to answer
questions, the psychiatrist acts as judge
and jury and finds him guilty of some
kind of neurosis. And the court accepts
his finding!
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Arpee”: Hurrying to the station in
teeming rain, my friend accepted with
alacrity when the driver of an ancient car
pulled-up and offered him a lift. Obeying
the Samaritan’s command to “give her a
good slam,” he pulled hard on the sagging
door and the window shattered and
tinkled in small pieces on to his lap. In
the silence which followed he hastened to
assure the owner that he’d pay for repairs.
“My oath you will,” said the Samaritan.
❖ ❖
“Bo”: I’m all for Mr. Maxwell Gluck,
a chain-store proprietor whom the U.S.
Senate without debate confirmed as
Ambassador Designate to Ceylon after
he had admitted to a Senate committee
that he could not recall the name of
Ceylon’s Prime Minister. Can his
appointment have anything but a bene-
ficial effect on international diplomacy?
Instead of bowing solemnly before the
Ceylonese P.M., with the much-syllabled
“Dr. Bandaranaike” rippling smoothly
off his tongue, Max should bring a
refreshing touch to his task by saying
casually at their initial meeting: “Say,
you’re this Mr. Whosthis of —what’s
this goldarned country, now . . . Hong
Kong or Colombo or something, ain’t it
—l’m Max Gluck. Pleased to meetcha!”
“O.K., please yourself, Hilda —but if YOU
go like that, I go like this.”
Bandy’s grin will be the signal for every-
one else to roar laughing, the episode will
be cherished thereafter wherever diplo-
mats forgather, and Maxwell G. will have
gotten away to a flying start on his career
of undiplomacy calculated to make any
stickler for protocol livid with envy.
*l* ♦> *!♦
“Doynest”: Melbourne’s Queen Vic-
toria Hospital is claiming a world-record
—a patient has just presented her hus-
band with their thirteenth child, the entire
baker’s dozen having been born at the
Queen Vic.
“H.A.L.”: The film-rights to one of
his books had been bought for £BOOO
and I congratulated him. He laughed
bitterly and said: “You mean twelve-
hundred quid.” Two literary agents had
been concerned in the sale of the cinema-
rights, but they hadn’t split the commis-
sion, as is done in nearly all other
business circles. Each took 12| per cent.,
which reduced the sum to £6OOO. Then
the publisher took half. The author
banked his £3OOO, but most of it was his
for only two months —then the Com-
missioner of Taxes took his cut and
£l2OO was left for the man who had
written the book. The Society of British
Authors warns writers not to sign any
agreement which gives a publisher more
than 25 per cent, of serial, dramatic,
broadcasting, translation and cinema
rights, but if any author who isn’t right
at the top of the tree tries to follow it
he is usually told to take his manuscript
elsewhere.
Charles Aubrey was bank-manager there
in the 1870’s, and when Louis was out of
work in Sydney after being shipped back
from the Caroline Islands in the H.M.S.
Rosario his brother paid his passage to
Cooktown and put him in charge of a
poultryfarm that had fallen into the
hands of the bank. I doubt whether
Beclce was then giving “a final polish to
his Bulletin stories,” the first of which,
“The Seizure of the Ingra,” did not
appear until 17 years later (B. 24/12/ 92).
This yarn was afterwards cribbed by
Rolf Boldrewood for chapter 10 of A
Modern Buccaneer. Some account ot
Becke’s Cooktown day may be gathered
from several of the short stories in his
Ridan the Devil, but these, as with many
other of his autobiographical tales, must
be taken with a grain of salt.
HERO OF HEROES
“A 63-year-old Malay businessman, Tunku
Mohammed Ariffin Binahmad, who began
marrying at 16, plans to take his 70th bride
shortly.”
One man will yield to high adventure’s
lure
On burning veldt, tracking the lion's
spoor ;
Another one dangers and thrills will seek
On mighty Himalayas frozen peak ;
In “cannon’s mouth” will others find true
glory, , . , .
Their doughty deeds enshrined in song
and story,
And heroes there will be who'll soon
embrace
The perils of the unknown outer-space.
They’re pikers, Tunk, to you, who, with-
out falter,
Sixty-nine times have trotted to the altar.
Inform us, Tunku etcetera —at night
D’you number them, undress them by
the right,
Bestowing dutiful pecks on the array
Before, quite thankfully, you hit the hay?
And kindly tell us this, T.M.A.8.,
If all their relatives you have to see.
To listen to that herd shoot off the gob
Would in itself be quite a full-time job.
And with the babel of wives all talking
at you,
Tunku, how you must wish you were a
statue!
Skinnies and fatties, beauties and just
plain Janes,
The doll-types, the phlegmatics, those
with brains;
The serene ones, and the wives with
tempers short —
It’s possible you’ve sampled every sort.
Yet still you seek one who’ll outshine
the sun,
The wife to end all wives, the Ideal One.
Vainest of all vain hopes! ’Twixt hammer
and anvil
You lie, who have out-Manvilled Tommy
Manville.
Tunku Mohammed Ariffin Binahmad,
Here’s one bloke who is positive you ARE
mad!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


THE name-plate from-the old Cooer-
wull Academy at Bowenfels (B.
31/7/’57) is now, thanks to the co-
operation of the Roman Catholic
Church, incorporated in one of the
buildings at The Scots School, Bathurst.
The keystone of the doorway, it was a
feat removing it from the old building.
In getting the stone Bathurst has also to
thank the. efforts of Rev. Alan Dougan,
now Principal of St. Andrew’s College,
Sydney, but for 17 years minister of St.
Stephen’s, Bathurst. He was recently
State Moderator of the Presbyterian
Church, and further proof of the co-
operation existing between the brethren
in Bathurst was given when the lace for
his Moderatorial dress was presented to
him with the compliments of the Roman
Catholic Fathers. It was made by nuns.
—“Sunray.”
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Fenelli”: Now that he can look back
on his childhood with adult comprehen-
sion, Smith relishes telling this one of the
time when he was a very junior office-
boy in a big shipping firm. The old man
was an arthritic type, which possibly
explained his bouts of irascibility. He
frequently needed a helping hand. At
the end of a board-meeting, Smith was
called in by the boss. “Smith!” he
snapped irritably. “Put on my coat!”
Puzzled, Smith hesitated. “Smith! ” came
the bellow. “Don’t stand there! Put on
my coat!” Smith shrugged, took the
request literally, and promptly put on
the boss’s coat. Gales of laughter from
the directors, a thump across the
shoulders from the boss, and the first of
fourteen sackings in three-and-a-half
years!
♦*. »j.
“Wusslean”: On the subject of
doctors’ bills, an English law-report of
1791 cites an appeals case setting aside a
verdict obtained by a Dr. Chorley, of
Doncaster, for the recovery of his fees.
Deciding that “no action lay for a
physician’s fees any more than for a
barrister’s,” Lord Kenyon, Chief Justice,
observed:
It has been understood in this country
that the fees of a physician are honorary,
and not demandable of right. And it is
much more for the credit and rank of that
honorable body [i.e., physicians] and,
perhaps, for their benefit also, that it
should be so considered. And I much
doubt whether they themselves would not
altogether disclaim such a right as would
place them upon a less-respectable footing
in society than that which they at present
hold.
In the interests of the credit and rank
of physicians, there is something to be
said for putting back the clock to 1791.
♦j* <♦
“Moorapi”: Don’t know what coin
“Peter R.” had in mind when he men-
tioned the Coronation florin (B. 24/ 7/’57),
as none has been minted in Australia.
He may have been thinking of the
Canberra florin (1927) or the 1934 Mel-
bourne Centenary florin, now a rarity
which sells at 30s. The crown-piece of
1937 was struck to commemorate the
“ Ooh! I said nothing of the kind!"
coronation of George VI, and was
followed by a 1938 issue which is worth
more owing to thousands having been
withdrawn soon after minting.
♦j*
“Bookie’s Dog”: The last aid the
average female punter consults in her
quest for winners is a form-guide.
Instance the lady at Sandown Park (Vic.)
dog-track, who was served a cup of tea in
a white cup on a yellow saucer. She took
it as an omen, and coupled No. 3 dog
(white jacket) with No. 5 (yellow jacket).
She collected £BO 3s. for five-bob.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Tom Trout”: Last thing I expected
to find in Venice was the traffic-jams
which afflict Sydney—wheeled vehicles
must be discarded at the city’s entrance
at the Piazzale Roma. But the way the
barges and water-buses and chi-chi motor-
boats and taxi-gondolas get snarled
together on the canals often has the
drivers as hooting-mad as any on land.
*:« *
“Ardoyne”: A 21-year-old Melbourne
tram-conductor, who, after finishing his
night-shift, drove a borrowed tram
around the suburbs for four hours
realised an ambition at the cost of his
job. Another bloke borrowed a Tram-
ways bus for a solitary jaunt. His “fare,”
as assessed by a magistrate, must be a
record even for a Melbourne bus-ride —
thirty-quid for driving a vehicle while
under the influence, twenty-five for
illegal use of a Tramways bus, a fiver plus
three-pounds cost for wilful damage to
the door-handles, and two notes for driv-
ing without a licence: total, £65. The
moral seems to be that if you must take
something, it’s cheapest to take a taxi.
“Kenyas”: I’ve always been assured
that old age has its compensations, and
the other day remembered there was
nobody still alive who could retail
embarrassing details of my infancy. Not
even the knowledge that an ancient photo-
graph (of myself at the age of twelve
months lying naked in a large pink shell)
might exist could provoke a blush. If it
continues to lie about there’s not a soul
left who knows who it is ; and neither of
us, supposing the photograph could
speak, would be anxious to claim the
other.
♦2* **« ♦'«
“Becks”: Add to the list of Australian
playwrights to score successes overseas
H. Kellett Chambers, younger brother of
Haddon Chambers (B. 10/7/’57). Born in
Stanmore (Sydney) in 1867, he worked as
a journalist in Sydney, London and New
York before having his first Broadway
success in 1905 with “Abigail,” in which
Gladys George played the leading role.
He followed this up with a string of plays
including “The Butterfly,” written for
Lillian Russell, and a dramatic version of
“David Copperfield” which Charles Cart-
wright produced in London.
“Rumee”: Wouldn’t be sure about
the origin of “lox” (B. 31/7/’57), but
“sox” certainly came from the U.S.A. —•
and the “clox” with which they’re some-
times adorned. We may not see “clox”
tell our time, and I haven’t seen “frox”
in lieu of gowns yet, or “Stox Must Be
Cleared!” We are free, at present, of
trouble in the “dox,” and people don’t
have their “blox” knocked off. Scots
aren’t known as “Jox,” nor roosters as
“cox.” But with the increasing cost of
newsprint we may be in for “shox.”


POLTICAL POINTS
IN CHAMBERS
Evatt v. A.L.P.
Nicklin’s first Cabinet consists of 11
Ministers, as did Gair’s. Six are Country-
party members ; five Liberal. Full team
and portfolios are:
Premier and Chief Secretary: G. F. R.
Nicklin (C.P.).
Deputy-Premier and Minister for Labor
and Industry: K. J. Morris (Lib.).
Education: J. C. A. Pizzey (C.P.).
Attorney-General: A. W. Munro (Lib.).
Treasurer and Housing: T. A. Hiley
(Lib.).
Development, Mines and Main Roads:
E. Evans (C.P.).
Lands: A. G. Muller (C.P.).
Health and Home AKairs: Dr. H. W.
Noble (Lib.).
Agriculture: O. O. Madsen (C.P.).
Works and Local Government: J. A.
Heading (C.P.).
Transport: G. W. W. Chalk (Lib.).
As it is 25 years since the last non-
Labor Government was in office in
Queensland it is not surprising that the
new Cabinet is entirely without Minis-
terial experience, but on present indica-
tions they’ll have plenty of it before they
go into Opposition again.
There has been a slight shuffling of
portfolios compared with the Gair
arrangements. Housing, which was
formerly linked with Public Works, has
been allotted to former Liberal-leader
Hiley, who is also Treasurer. The purpose
of this is to give emphasis to the new
Government’s intention to encourage
homebuilding through co-operative build-
ing-societies. In accordance with election
promises a Ministry for Development
has been formed; it has been put under
the wing of the Minister for Mines and
Main Roads. The ponderously named
Ministry for Public Instruction has been
re-titled Education.
The new Speaker will be Alan Fletcher,
who has been Country-party member for
Cunningham since 1953. He has chaired
the Pittsworth Shire Council for seven
years, but may find the Queensland
Assembly a somewhat less decorous
body to control.
• •
Sons of two recently-deceased M.P.s
are seeking selection for their fathers’
seats. They are D. Anthony, son of
Larry Anthony, former P.M.G. and
Federal member for Richmond (N.S.W.),
and John Cain, junior, who may stand for
the former Victorian Premier’s North-
cote seat in the Vic. Assembly.
• •
Other contenders for Labor endorse-
ment for Northcote may include John
Galbally, A.L.P. leader in the Legisla-
tive Council, and former Chief Secretary
Galvin, who, before his defeat at the 1955
election, was deputy-leader of the Vic-
torian Labor party and M.L.A. for
Bendigo. The success of either could
affect the positions of leader and deputy-
leader of the Parliamentary Labor party.
A. E. Shepherd, deputy-leader of the
party, has been acting-leader since John
Cain’s death and is at present favored to
win the leadership when the vote is taken
towards the end of the month.
• •
Budget-tipping is in full swing. One
day last week the two Sydney evening
papers both had hot information on pen-
sions right from the stable. One upped
’em five-bob; the other 7s. 6d.
• •
Sydney City Council is about to begin
a £l-million housing scheme to provide
300 flats. The Lord Mayor says the
intention is to provide homes for tenants
of sub-standard city dwellings due for
demolition. The City Engineer had better
prepare himself for a succession of visits
from aldermen seeking to have their
present council flats declared sub-
standard.
• •
The Cahill and Bolte Cabinets have
approved a draft agreement which divides
Snowy power and water between N. S.
Wales and Victoria. Senator Spooner,
Minister for Development, thinks this is
“a very important move forward.” Play-
ford, who hasn’t been able to get a peep
at the agreement and claims South Aus-
tralia should have some rights under it,
doesn’t agree.
• •
“Swanemu”: The Country party in
W.A. is trying for better relations with
the Libs., a move which may have some
significance for eastern Staters. The
party has affirmed “the necessity for its
continuance as a separate political
entity,” and this has been welcomed by
the Liberal party with an expression of
hope that amalgamation on the lines of
that existing in South Australia may be
possible. The Perth morning daily has
warned the Country party of the political
dangers of trying, while in Opposition, to
play an opportunist comer-party role. It
has also urged the preparation of a joint
and constructive policy. Next move’s up
to the leaders of the two parties.
• •
The new Queensland Government
intends to restore the Honors List. If
that doesn’t mean a knighthood for Joe
Bukowski there’s no gratitude in human
nature.
• •
“Ex-ACT”: It would be illuminating
to probe the mental processes of a
radio- and TV-commentator with (accord-
ing to the “ratings”) a large following,
who makes a show of political impartiality
by suggesting loudly that any Govera-
ment which has been in office for a con-
siderable time should be removed by the
electors. The “time for a change” slogan
has been worn to tatters by various
political parties. Surely the only reason
for change is when an Opposition not only
has a better policy, but shows some signs
of ability to carry it into effect. The
Menzies Government has shown some
indications of arrogance during its long
reign, and may show some more in view
of the absence of even the slightest threat
on the horizon. Yet could even the most
klieg - light - blinded commentator
seriously believe that the Doc. and his
followers are in a position to take-over
the country and give it effective govern-
ment?
• •
Who pays for those long telegrams
dispatched by M.P.s and their private
secretaries? Presumably Haylen’s wire
was at the expense of the taxpayers. Was
Dalziel’s? Anyway, wouldn’t an airmail-
letter look better and be almost as fast?,
• •
Uranium to the value of £3 million
was exported from South Australia in the
last financial year, Playford told the S.A.
Assembly in his Budget speech. This
year’s figure will be slightly smaller —
£2.75 million.
• •
India has passed an emergency bill out-
lawing strikes in the public service, with
jail penalties for breaches. Does the Doc.
still consider Nehru the greatest states-
man in the world? And does he intend to
advocate similar laws in Australia? And
does he intend to tell the Postal Workers
about it?
• •
Khrushchev left Bulganin behind when
he visited East Germany. Judging by the
cool reception K. received in East Berlin
B. didn’t miss much.
• •
Premier Cahill on the N. S. Wales
electoral redistribution:
My own electorate was altered and I was
not happy about it. But I don’t think we
should go round criticising the commission
because everything has not been to the
liking of the individual.
Joe’s Cook’s River seat gave him a
majority of 6324 at the last election.
Short of picking his electorate up and
dumping it on the North Shore no amount
of alteration to its boundaries could lose
him any sleep. Other members aren’t all
in the same fortunate position.
• •
“A.U.A.”: Adelaide “Advertiser”
recalled, under the heading of “25 years
ago,” that Mr. Justice Evatt had ruled
in the High Court that a grazier, who
claimed to have carried on “printing” as
a business and had sustained losses, was
not entitled to deduct such losses for
taxation purposes. Evatt, J., delivered
the judgment all right, but according
to the records the grazier didn’t claim
that his second string was printing.
“Punting” was the word.


Oh, oh, oh for an Alt’ring ’em!
“ is therefore entitled to loyalty and
support
“Public controversy is out of the
question.”
It came from the palace? No, from
A. A. Calwell, Evatt’s deputy, and referred
not to that other controversy but to
Chambers's scathing reference to The
Leader.
• •
Counting in the Queensland election
continued throughout the week without
significantly altering the party alignments
indicated at the close of counting on
polling-night. By midweek John Duggan
and Dr. Dittmer, leader and deputy-leader
of the A.L.P., accepted defeat in Too-
woomba and Mt. Gravatt. In Windsor,
the Q.L.P. sitting member T. W. Rasey,
•who had been 127 behind, spurted to get
within eight votes of Liberal P. R. Smith,
then dropped back slightly. Smith got
home by 24, but Rasey has asked for a
recount.
In Balonne, where J. R. Taylor (A.L.P.)
had held a slight lead of 12, later votes, as
had been expected, favored E. J. Beard-
more (C.P.), carrying him to the front.
With a lead of 267, he seems certain to
win the seat. Minister for Agriculture
Collins, trailing Gilmore (C.P.) by 54 in
Tablelands at the beginning of last week,
was 62 behind by Saturday, with about
500 votes outstanding.
Frank Forde is still struggling hard to
hold Flinders. During the week his lead
was reduced from 159 to 68, with about
250 votes to go.
Forde, however, seems likely to hold
the seat—and to be the new A.L.P. leader.
• •
In Belyando, where former Lands
Minister Foley (Q.L.P.) had a fairly com-
fortable lead, later votes favored C. R.
White (C.P.). On
Monday Foley was
only 53 in front, with
a few hundred votes
to come.
• •
East Germany, just
visited by Khrush-
chev, is having con-
tinued industrial un-
rest. Within the past
fortnight leaders of a
steelworks strike at
Silbitz were arrested
by the Soviet police
and taken to a meet-
ing of steelworkers
to apologise and
recant. The workers
prom pll y scuffled
with the police and
released the
prisoners, who
escaped across the
border. It transpired
that they had struck
against “wage-cuts in
connection with the
introduction of the
45 - hour week.”
Wonder if Comrade
Jim Healy, who is
behind the Iron Curtain, was in
the vicinity to support them against the
tyranny of the Socialist employer?
• •
Tasmanian Labor seems to have
accepted the idea that the only way to
raise money is to offer more and more
facilities for gambling. Deserted by
Tatt.’s, it encouraged Arthur Drysdale to
launch his gigantic sweeps in which the
winner has a choice of taking the money
or the pub. Now it is preparing a bill to
legalise football-pools, and Treasurer
Turnbull is speaking approvingly of a
plan to build a “Reno-like gambling
casino” on Mt. Wellington, and another
one “near an airport.”
.• ' •
There'll be five starters for the
Vaucluse by-election—a Liberal, two
Independent Liberals and two Inde-
pendents.
Geoffrey Souter Cox won the Liberal
nomination from a field of 13. He’s a
42-year-old estate-agent who collected
a D.S.O. and M.C. in World War 11,
finishing up,as a lieutenant-colonel.
Vaucluse is a blue-ribbon Liberal seat,
but the ribbon isn't always .the right
shade. Murray Robson, whose resigna-
tion is the cause of the by-election, won
it in 1936 as an Independent, beating the
endorsed Liberal H. C. Foster. Foster
nominated for preselection this time, too,
but withdrew at the last minute and is
standing as an Independent Liberal. The
other candidate wearing that label is
N. E. Mills. The two Independents are
A. J. Elboz and E. H. Spensley.
• •
The seesaw on disarmament continues.
President Eisenhower is filled with hope
that Russia may agree to the latest
Western proposals for aerial- and ground-
inspection zones —to cover on the one
hand all North America north of the
Rio Grande and all Europe and “similar
zones” over Russia —China excluded
because Communist bases there “were
outside the proposed zones” and “not
of critical importance and would only
complicate the disarmament talks.” It is
about the most naive scheme since Man-
churia and its arms were handed over to
Russia on a plate; or perhaps since
Eisenhower, as Supreme Commander in
Europe, held back the American Ninth
army for a fortnight so that Russia could
take Berlin and all Germany up to the
Elbe.
• •
If a party could get along without a
leader Labor would probably have
dumped the Doc. long ago. What has
saved him- has been the difficulty of find-
ing a successor. None of the three who
have so far challenged him Burke,
Calwell and Fraser —has impressed the
party as Prime Minister material. At
the weekend a kite was being flown for
Ward. It must have been launched by a
Liberal. If there’s any man unuer whom
the A.L.P. is less likely to win an election
than under Evatt, it's Eddie Ward.
• •
For years Tasmania has been little
concerned by the mainland States’ pre-
occupation with Section 92. Now, with
a vehicular-ferry building, the adminis-
trator of road-transport in the island
State has warned of impending problems
there for road-transport operations. In
all probability, he says, mainland
operators will come to Tasmania with
vehicles able to operate anywhere in the
State without restriction. Local hauliers
have been warned to pull their socks up
to cope with threatened competition.
HOMECOMINGS


PERSONAL ITEMS
Norman Strange operated his private,
miniature exchange as Director of Posts
and Telegraphs for the last time the other
day. One of Melbourne’s most popular
and cheerful citizens, he began as a
messenger-boy at Bruthen (Vic.) in 1905
at 10s. Bd. a week and got Is. on the side
as town lamp-lighter. Something on the
side was not Against Regulations
in 1905. Strange, who has been
a Davis Cup selector in recent
years, and has played for and
captained Victoria, has had almost as
steady a rise in the tennis world as in
his department, and his handsome, good-
humored face is familiar in most sporting
circles in Melbourne. His popularity in
the department has been demonstrated
by his ability to get jobs done for charities
by voluntary P.M.G. workers at week-
ends. Which seems to answer the ques-
tion : Is he the same at work?,
• •
Betting in Spring Street on the man to
succeed John Cain as Opposition-leader
is 100/1 on Ernie Shepherd, current
deputy-leader. Although he hasn’t quite
outgrown Footscray parish yet, he is the
sort of leader the V.L.P. likes, forceful,
forthright, and personally popular; and
he did a good job—one of the best of
recent years —as Cain’s Education
Minister for two and a half years.
• •
George Francis Reuben Nicklin became
Premier of Queensland, save for the
formalities, three days before his 62nd
birthday; it is also appropriate that the
Brisbane Exhibition came hard on the
heels of the elections—Nicklin has been an
R.N.A. councillor since 1951 and is chair-
man of the Fruit Committee. The
Country-party leader has been in the
fruit game, growing end, for most of
his adult life, mainly on a 20-acre pine-
G. F. R. NICKLIN
apple farm at Palmwoods (Q), and over
the years he has played a leading part in
organising the Queensland fruit industry.
He served with the 49th Battalion in the
Kaiser’s war, collected an M.M. and a
“mention,” was commissioned, and in
Hitler’s war was C.O. of the 6th
Battalion, V.D.C. He’s been in the
Queensland House since 1932 and had
been Leader of the Opposition from 1941
until very recently, when the elections
changed his status. Tall —6ft. —he
doesn’t drink or smoke and is a tem-
perate speaker—his speeches never drop
to the personal level. He plays bowls,
and likes nothing better than to watch
Test-cricket.
• •
“K.R.”: Lieut.-Col. John McCaffrey,
recently appointed Joint Inspector of
Establishments at Army H.Q., Melbourne,
was a Tobruk Rat and, later in the war,
C.O. of 65th Infantry Battalion. From
January, 1950, till this appointment, he
had been G.5.0.l at Northern Command,
in Brisbane, except for a period as C.O.
of 4th Battalion, Royal Australian Regi-
ment, training troops for Korea. His
successor at Northern Command, Lieut.-
Col. Derek Sharp, was signals-officer
with Ist Australian Paratroop Battalion
(1943-46) and 2 i./c. Ist Battalion in
Korea (1951), for which service he
received 0.8. E.
• •
That par. by a contributor on old-
established legal firms in N.S.W. (B.
24/7/’57) might give the impression that
there is a connection between Magney and
Magney, of Sydney, and Tietyens, Angel
and Jackling, of Albury. Apart from the
fact that both firms are well known and
old-established, there is no connection
between them: the ambiguity was caused
by the inadvertent omission of part of a
sentence.
• o
In Sydney last Wednesday Alfred
Wunderlich, governing - director and
managing-director (one of three) of
Wunderlich, Ltd., entertained his friends
at a dinner to celebrate the 70th anniver-
sary of the firm established by his brother
Ernest and himself (the third brother, Dr.
Otto Wunderlich, joined them later) in
Sydney on August 7, 1887.
They got their first major contract in
1888 —the zinc-ceiling for Sydney Town
Hall. Contracts for the spire of St.
James Church and the turrets of Sydney
Hospital followed, and when an importer
was unable to take delivery of a cargo
of terracotta roofing-tiles from Mar-
seilles in 1893, they took delivery and
started an Australia-wide business. When
supplies were cut-off during War I the
firm started another line, asbestos-
cement (they trebled production during
War 11, for hutments, hangars and the
like), and now Wunderlich products are
in three diverse materials metals,
asbestos-cement, and clay derivatives.
ALFRED WUNDERLICH
There are 18 factories (in Sydney,Brisbane,
Melbourne, Hobart, Launceston and
Adelaide), assets are valued at £4,500,000
and the firm employs 2150 people. In
1914 the company started a staff-partner-
ship scheme —probably one of the earliest
employee-benefit schemes in Australia.
Interviewed at the office he still attends
regularly, the only surviving brother,
Alfred Wunderlich, an amazingly alert
92, gave most of the credit for early
success to his brother Ernest: “He was
business manager, salesman, everything.”
At the time of the Town Hall contract
one of Alfred’s chores was to pay the
workmen —“I used to run up the ladders
and pay them on the job”—and one week
there wasn’t enough money in kitty ; so
Alfred went to the bank for £5O and was
refused. A friend supplied the temporary
need, and the Wunderlich brothers took
their custom to the National Bank. “Since
then,” Alfred Wunderlich chuckled, “the
firm has always been good for £5O with
the National.”
A Chevalier of the Legion d’Honneur,
a former president of the Associated
Chambers of Commerce, a music-lover
and former president of the Philharmonic
Society, Alfred Wunderlich is a man of
many interests and wide culture. Born in
England (his grandfather went there
from Germany), he was educated in
Switzerland but worked in London as a
young man.
• •
Passed on in Sydney at 80, Orwell
Phillips, businessman and philanthropist.
A generous benefactor to the Sydney
Grammar School (he was a trustee for
over 20 years, and had a term of some
10 years as chairman), Royal Prince
Alfred Hospital (he had been on the
board since 1926), Jewish organisations
(life-member of the board of the Great
Synagogue and former president and


treasurer), and the Prisoners Aid Society
(treasurer for many years), he also gave
large sums anonymously to various
charities. At the 'time of his death he
was vice-chairman of Tooths (he had
been chairman for nearly 20 years), a
director of United Insurance, and chair-
man of Marrickville Holdings (the own-
ing company of Marrickville Margarine*
and Nut Foods Pty., Ltd., manufacturers
of Eta products). He had also been
chairman of Chown Bros, for 57 years,
chairman of North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. up to the time of its
voluntary liquidation in 1954, and
managing-director of Moses Moss and
Co. Several years ago he retired from the
boards of a number of other companies.
• •
“Sunray”: What “Jock” forgot to
mention in his report of the conferring
of an honorary degree of Doctor of
Divinity on the Rev. John Calder, M.A.,
8.D., by Aberdeen University (B.
31/7/’57) is the fact that, as well as being
a chaplain in two wars and before he
joined the no-tie brigade, he was a Regular
soldier. He served with the Gordon
Highlanders before bowing to his
mother’s dearest wish that one of her
boys should be a minister. As he said,
“The others didna seem to have the
aptitude.”
• •
Kenneth James Morris, new Deputy
Premier of Queensland, is 54 and has
been a Liberal member in the State House
since 1944. Five-feet-nine compared with
the Premier’s 6ft., he has been described
in a Brisbane paper as “having enough
K. J. MORRIS
energy and bounce for two people.” The
impression The Bulletin had of him,
when he visited the office in Sydney some
little time back, didn’t quite square with
that: energy—yes, bundles of it;
optimism, too, and a lively mind. But
also modesty, keeping these qualities, so
to speak, on a leash. He joined the A.I.F.
in 1939, went to England with that part
of the Sixth Divvy which was diverted
there, and became an original Ninth
Divvy man, serving with the Division at
Tobruk, Alamein, and in New Guinea,
and finishing the war as a major. Before
War II he was in the shoemaking busi-
ness of F. T. Morris (founded by his
grandfather), and later was principal of a
chemicals firm.
• •
Henry G. Lamond: This might be of
some cheer to Australian writers with
unwanted MSS. crowding the furniture
The history of my book Dingo and its
many rejections has been given in The
Bulletin (24/7/’57); since that was
printed (and after the book had been
published in America, Germany, Aus-
tralia and England) Dingo has learned to
talk French. Presses de la Cite, the same
people who brought out my Big Red,
have contracted for him. They offered
100,000 francs advance royalties. I
remembered when a franc was worth
10d., or 240 to the £. I hit the air. I
was up and down so fast and so often
1 met myself coming and going. Mrs.
Lamond would have sung “The
Marseillaise” if only she’d known the
words. Before we both went clean batty,
I rang the bank. They told me francs are
now listed at 779 to the £. To a politician
that might be chickenfeed. To a poor
but honest author it means real dough.
Dingo may learn a couple of other
languages before he lays up for the wet
season. He won’t make my fortune, but
his scalp is worth a bob or two.
My publishers in England, Faber and
Faber, were so pleased with my last
offering, The Red Ruin Mare, they offered
a 25 per cent, increase of advance on
royalties. They reckon it's the best thing
I’ve done. That was pleasing to me —-
and the money wasn’t the only thing.
That book was wholly conceived and
written after I’d passed my 71st birthday.
• •
From 1933 to 1948 the 4000 Melanesian
people on the small volcanic island of
Ambrym, in the New Hebrides, had as
pastor William Frederick Baton; when his
mission ended and he returned to Aus-
tralia he contracted tuberculosis. The
church found part-time work for him at
Swansea, one of Tasmania’s warmer,
blander seaside resorts. He used his
leisure to write a thesis on the life' and
language of the Melanesians —500 fools-
cap pages of it —and it was micro-filmed
by the South Pacific Commission (which
is one of Doc. Evatt’s brainwaves; a
united effort by the Pacific Allies to
promote the welfare of the South Pacific
peoples). Last week the thesis won for
the Rev. Paton a Doctorate of Letters
from Melbourne University.
COLIN McARTHUR
Colin McArthur’s paternal grandfather
was a lighthouse-keeper, his maternal
grandfather was Norwegian, so it is not
altogether surprising that the 48-year-
old vice-president of Adelaide Stock
Exchange served in the Navy (lieutenant)
in War 11. His father was president in
1948 (the father of Donald Young,
current president, was also a president)
and his two brothers are partners in the
stockbroking firm. Colin was educated
at Scotch, and played amateur ’Rules-
league football (his 15-year-old daughter
now plays district tennis). He’s a trustee
of the Family Welfare Bureau, an ex-
Servicemen’s organisation.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 90, H. E. Britten, housemaster
at The King's School, Parramatta (f9lO-33). He
was acting headmaster 1931-32.
In Melbourne, at 85, Dr. Herbert Maunsell
Hewlett, one of Australia's pioneer radiologists.
In Adelaide, at 74, William R. Cade, who
founded the S.A. Symphony Orchestra in 1935.
He retired as conductor of the orchestra in 1948.
At Quirindi (N.S.W.), at 65, Stanley Edgar
Ogden, whose family had a century-link with
the Australian Agricultural Company. His
grandfather, George Ogden, came from England
as surveyor for the company, and his father,
R. M. Ogden, was manager of Windy Station
from 1885 to 1930. Stan Ogden took over as
manager in 1930 and retired last year.
In Melbourne, John A. Ross, member of Aus-
tralia’s first team to Bisley (1897), former Vic-
torian Commissioner of Titles, solicitor, author
of a textbook on law relating to conveyancing,
and well-known ornithologist.
At Napier (N.Z.), G. O. K. Sainsbury, F.R.S.,
one Of the best known of the Dominion’s
amateur scientists. His best work was A
Handbook of the N.Z. Mosses (1955).
At Wanganui (N.Z.), at 86, Oswald James
Hawken, former Minister of the Crown under
Premier Coates. He selected the site of and
named the famous Massey College. In his
younger days he was a Klondike miner, later
a Taranaki Rugby rep. He had a lifelong
association with farming.


ABORIGINALITIES
DOGS AND MEN
IT seems likely that the first time man
scratched his head and went from the
cave over woman’s ability to defeat him
with her womanhood he went in search
of a friend to share his defeat, and
encouraged the dog with a bone left over.
Man’s defeats in his modern cave are still
identified with his four-footed friend in
“the dog-house.” Man’s “best friend” was
probably his earliest.
It’s revealing to see how two dogs out
of the same litter will take on the different
characteristics of their masters. A big,
happy man will make a big, happy dog ;
a thin, irascible man a dog like himself.
Hence “the one-man dog,” and the annoy-
ance of the owner of a working dog
when a stranger forces
his attentions on the
working partner. An
“‘easy man” cannot
make a hard-working
dog.
Next to man, dogs are
the most interesting
study of things on this
earth, because they are
imitative and a reflec-
tion of a man.
Francis Murphy, who
owned Sarsfield, near
Clifton (Q.), had a dog
named Darky who
would do the work of
three men until Frank
said “Bogie! ” at the end
of the day. One day
Frank had a flock to
cross the Condamine
and he inadvertently said
the word “Bogie.”
Darky went into the
river, and all Frank’s
cajolery and threats
could not get Darky
back to work again.
A lazy swaggie watched
Frank, and when
Darky’s owner came up to him the
swaggie said: “Any chance of a job,
boss?” Frank looked at the dirty
swaggie, and then pointed to Darky in
the river: “Go and have a bogie and ask
Darky. He’s the boss around here; I’m
only the sheepdog.”
Have you ever noticed how lonely a
country dog is when he is lost in a city?
He distrusts the city dog as most country-
men distrust, or feel apart from, the city
man. City waif dogs develop that broken
spirit of city waif men. There was an
alcoholicked man who used to
pass my Sydney office with a weird-look-
ing piece of meat with hair on it which he
called a dog. While the dog’s ancestry
must have involved all the bitzers in the
World, he was no noodle as a poodle.
The pair would go down in the morning,
and returning in the evening the “master”
would be leaning against a southerly-
buster, with his bulkheads holding back,
with great difficulty, beer consumed.
I saw him in a bar at Wynyard
Station, and watched his technique. He
wandered up to the bar with his quaint
canine friend at his heels. It was no time
before some drinker began to laugh at
the dog, and it wasn’t long before the
animated doormat was doing tricks, and
his “master” gulped down large quantities
of any sort of alcohol. That was certainly
a “dog’s life” for the soak’s drink-ticket.
The pooch must have died of fatty
degeneration of the pluck by the tons of
pie-ends he ate to keep his master drunk.
The best dog I ever saw for a hard
road was at Narrabri (N.S.W.). The dog
could not bury his bone in the hotel
backyard, baked so hard a bulldozer
would have had a job planting a bone.
The dog walked about the yard with a
hungry troop of near-misses in dogs at
“I cant read your par. now — it’s press-day .”
his heels. Eventually he got tired of
trying to bury it, so he pulled-up short,
turned around a couple of times to view
his audience, and then, much to the dis-
gust of the improvident poor, sat down on
it!
The greatest thing about dogs is that
every man is certain that his dog “may
not be the best worker, or the smartest
dog I know, but there’s something about
him I like.” And why shouldn’t he?
After all, the dog is only a reflection of
himself.
Eric Bedford.
T’VE struck a number of “aboriginal”
names which on examination turned
out to be white-man corruptions, but
Tasmania has one curious place-name
which it claims is pure abo. It is
Dubbillbarrill, a railway-siding on the
west coast between Queenstown and
Zeehan. To avoid arguments over what
to call it, the A.B.C. Guide to Pronuncia-
tion of Australian Place-names tells us
the correct thing is “Double Barrel,” but
I strongly suspect that if it is aboriginal
the natives would have pronounced it
“Du-M/’-ba-r///’,” so much more euphon-
ious.—“O’J ohnno.”
* * * *
“Spin”: Though insects, especially
bees, are the chief pollinating agents of
Westralian native trees, there’s one plant
which must depend solely on birds for
pollination, although it also attracts
insects —the kangaroo-paw. This purely
W.A. flower has the nectar deep inside a
long, glovelike receptacle, while the
pollen is placed around the edges at the
top. Any insect could crawl inside and
sip the nectar without contacting the
pollen, but a bird that dips its tongue
inside the flower gets dusted about the
neck. This is the only solely bird-flower
partnership I can think of, offhand.
* * * *
“Tom Trout”: A New Zealander,
Godfrey Bowen, has lately become a star
attraction at U.K. agricultural shows as
“the world’s champion sheep-shearer.” A
London columnist reported that, after
farmers had specially selected a wild
wether which had been roaming Dart-
moor, and “reckoned that 4-5 minutes
would be par for the course,” Mr. Bowen
clipped the beast in 46 seconds! The
demonstrations having been invited by
the Wool Marketing Board with the
serious purpose of improving British
shearers’ output, there is poignancy in the
paper’s lament that “expert witnesses are
finding it difficult to ascertain just what
his technique is.” He moves too quickly!
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: The Japanese Consul
will not be happy that “Yakipan” (B.
24/7/’57), with one fell horticultural par.,
tried to supplant the cherry-blossom with
the chrysanthemum as the national
flower and at the same time transferred
the Emperor’s kiri-buds to his spouse.
The status of Royal purple Paulonia-
blossoms is obvious with their use on all
Consular seals and items carrying
Imperial sanction. The chrysanthemum
is the emblem of the highest Nipponese
order of honor and not the Royal Crest.
* * * *
“Wire Buster”: The N.S.W. North
Coast knows plenty about frogs inter-
fering with electricity supplies. To get
over the trouble, additional lengths of
insulators are placed over the h.-t. leads
to transformers. In the Kempsey area
you will see beer-bottles with their
bottoms off placed over the h.-t. bushings
of some rural transformers. This is a
cheap and effective cure. In the Northern
Rivers’ County Council area you will see
tin guards, like mice-guards, encircling
transformer poles. Yet, for all these
precautions, frogs will still be seen on




transformers. They’re usually the small
green frog, and it’s thought they climb
other poles along the line and then “walk”
along the wires. Whether it is the low-
pitched hum of the transformer or its
warmth that attracts them isn’t known.
These frogs usually don’t affect supply
during daylight. Their annoying habit
lasts for about a month, soon after
Christmas. I have seen only two that
appeared to be electrocuted. They had
died with all four legs and fingers widely
extended and the head thrown back. But
there was no mark of a burn, and the
bodies were as rigid as a well-seasoned
board, due, possibly, to the drying-out of
whatever flows in a frog’s veins.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The Tasmanian-devil of
today is about the size of a Scotch-terrier;
but amongst a large quantity of fossilised
bones of marsupial animals lately dis-
covered near Mount Gambier (S.A.) were
some of a giant Tasmanian-devil about
the size of a bull. There were also bones
of a kangaroo standing 10ft. high, as well
as those of wombats, native-cats, bandi-
coots, koalas and echidnas all twice the
size of their presedt-day descendants.
The fossils are estimated to be at least
10,000 and possibly up to one-million
years old. Many years ago some fossil-
wombats twice the size of those of today
were found in Queensland, as well as two
species of double-sized Tasmanian-wolf;
but bones of a Tasmanian-devil in that
group were only about the dimensions of
present-day specimens.
* * * *
“M’Lou”: A local councillor dis-
approves of spotlight shooting because,
he says, it’s often only a cover for
nocturnal sheep-stealing. He might well
"Cripes, YOU Were lucky in this 'Bring out a Briton' scheme, Jonesy !”
have stressed its danger to human life
rather than to property. Some years ago
a young man, dazzled by the spotlight,
stepped off the back of a truck into space
and broke his neck. More recently a 15-
year-old, one of a party of lads out
shooting at night, stepped out of the front
of their utility to chase a wounded Jiare
held in the spotlight. At the same
moment a friend in the back of the
utility shot at the hare and the lad was
killed instantly.
* # * *
“Curie”: Driving in the dark after a
party, from one outback Queensland town
to another, we came to a “Queensland
gate”— two sticks joined by three strands
of wire. The “gate” is latched by a wire
loop to the fence-post, and collapses
when “opened.” One jovial fellow
jumped out to open the gate. We waited
while he fumbled with the loop. Then
the driver went to see what he was doing.
“You fool!” we heard him shout.
“You’ve undone the hinge!”
* * * *
“Ariota”: Magpies must have a sense
of humor. The next-door cat was stalk-
ing one. Three others took up positions
near the stalked one and a fourth magpie
rose noiselessly above the cat and zinged
down, giving Pussy a sharp peck beneath
the ear. I never saw jump so high
or move so fast.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: Turning over a June-
vintage Bulletin I noticed that “Nildem”
implies that Australian camels are really
dromedaries and that dromedaries are not
real camels. The word “camel” in its
narrowest sense refers to both the
Arabian (one-humped) and Bactrian
(two-humped) species. The usual run of
Arabian camel, whether pack, draft or
riding, moves with a rolling walk. But
there is a light variety, the dromedary
(from the Greek meaning “runner”),
which goes at a swinging trot, moving
both feet on one side forward and then
those on the other side. A well-bred
specimen can travel at 9 m.p.h. for a day
and a night without distress, and in case
of need can carry a messenger 600 miles
in five days. The jolting is less severe
than on an ordinary camel, but it still
takes an experienced rider to endure it.
If forced to gallop a dromedary soon
tires. One result of the export of Arabian
camels from Australia to America may be
the eliminating of the spectacle of
Bactrian camels dotting the landscape of
Arabia and Egypt, even in such “colossal”
films as “Suez.”
* * * *
“Ville”: Don’t know if all magpie
mammas are so easily put upon, or
whether the one who haunts the rear of
our place is a particularly soft touch.
Having risked her neck to belt nextdoor’s
surly hound away from a meaty bone,
she whistled-up her two offspring—
hatched last spring, big as herself, but
still clothed in grey and white. The
squawking brats sat back on their tails
and refused a morsel until Mum separated
bone from meat, feeding them alternately
the choicest titbits. Bellies filled, the
chicks waxed playful. Mum obligingly
lay in the dust, claws uppermost, and
wrestled the two of them. Interesting to
see if they take-off after acquiring the
familiar black-and-white plumage, but
doubt if they’ll ever leave home uftder
such magnanimous treatment.
OLD BRISBANE QUARRY
Snapping the contours in the Refidex,
Soiling the tiled bloom of the City Plan,
Making communications damned
complex,
The Relic gapes its great primeval span.
Threatening the gardens cf the up-to-date,
Consuming through the frenzied fence of
stone.
Its slow-salivaring walls of mouldy slate
Water its jungles raw and overgrown.
A scar across the suburb, a Disgrace,
Festering in centuries unrecalled;
Geologists across its slab floors trace
The scabrous prints where claws of
monsters crawled.
The strata slide into the pool of bush
—The modern music muted far above;
Here there is silence for the seed to push
Its permanent impress of primal love
That sets the soft palm feathering on the
stone,
That sets the sweet grass springing in the
stream;
Quietly the recent river s undertone
Crystals the stirring of a blurring dream.
QUEENSLAND,
PAUL SHERMAN.


A COOL, clear day on the Darling
Downs. Around Toowoomba pale-
headed rosellas indicate the latitude we’ve
reached, and yellow-faced honey-eaters —
possibly the ones that scolded me when I
peered too close into their nests down by
the Snowy —dawdle northward with none
of the urgency that marked their passage
over the southern tablelands of N.S.W.
The Dalby-road soon leaves the range
behind, and with it the colored
fowl, now replaced by two members
of the black - and -
white clan whose poise
and confidence are in
keeping with their formal
dress. The black-throated
butcher-bird, flautist of
the avian world, disdains
the winter silence
affected by so many birds
and his rounded note
throbs through the open
timber ; or is it that, like
his human neighbors, he
just can't help expressing
his gratitude for living
on the Downs?
Less vocal, but more
sleekly dressed, are the
black-shouldered kites;
as common here as
kestrels further south,
they adorn the telephone-
poles like hunched,
predatory weathercocks.
Out stretch the elegant
wings and they are air-
borne ; they glide, hover,
sideslip, dive, climb, bank
and then, with or without
a catch, resume their
lookout pose. We’re in
the Tyson country now ;
young wheat gleams
where once the boundary-
riders rode from dawn
to dark The butcher-
birds called and the kites
wheeled in those days too,
but it’s doubtful if the
toilers below took time
off to watch or listen —
not with old Jimmy snooping around to
make sure each man always did the work
of two.
Wippegong.
* * * *
“J.R.”: Opened a Queensland-nut to
find a grub had beaten me to it. Con-
sidering I had first to remove a very
tough outer husk before getting down to
the actual business of shelling, then sit
the apparently steel-encased nut in a
hole in the concrete path and slog it
repeatedly with a hammer before it
cracked, it is a puzzle how that grub or
the egg before it ever stormed such a
fortress.
* e * *
“Chouli”: A bird-watcher can learn
a good deal about young crows in the
spring, and get a bit of fun out of it
Often there is only one young one, and
he will keep to the nest till well-grown.
Approach the nest and he will show
plenty of interest till he gets a raucous
order to bob down. When the nest is
vacated he will be found planted in the
nearest thick clump of trees, where he
spends his days practising two things—
tearing-up strips of bark, and now and
then taking a vigorous flight, always
within the limits of his cover, and return-
ing promptly to the nursery. He will be
quite friendly and glad to relieve his
boredom by coming down close to his
visitor, especially if one talks to him.
Young Jim is almost silent early except
for a little chuckle, but soon he begins to
practise a weird croak. The old birds
“They belong to two newly-discovered white tribes—the Widgies and the Bodgies.”
won’t come near during a visit, but send
warnings of which young delinquent takes
no notice. Quite possibly his nursery will
be moved after a few visits, though not
very far. Astonishing to find this lack of
guile in a bird which a little later be-
comes so distrustful of humans.
* * * *
„ f '
Ken m:a: It was report!edfrc)m the
North Pole last month that there was a
heatwave up there which had forced
polar-bears to shelter m the shade of ice-
hummocks to keep cool, made seals
uncomfortable, and had Russian weather-
men sunbaking in trunks , the continuous
sunshine causing the ice to melt This ast
is what leally interested me (a s m
melting was reported tiom the Antarct
around the same time, too) One scientific
theory holds that the water locked m the
Antarctic and Arctic ice it released,
would submerge all the lands of the
earth What if this heatwave pers.sts?
Could all the ice melt? Will we all
drown? Will this be the way civilisation
is destroyed, without, after all, benefit of
the Bomb?
“Nancy Mac”: “A” continually being
troubled by **B’s” bull, he shot it and
pushed it down an old well. “B,” sus-
picious, went investigating and smelt the
evidence. Belligerently he went to “A,”
who put on an act worthy of Laurence
Olivier—whoever owned the cause of
his well’s pollution would be most sorry
for it! So “B” retreated, saying he was
sure it would not be his bull—probably
“C’s” sheep. They’re still tough out
here in the west.
“K.1.N.”: Want to see aboriginal rock-
carvings (B. 31/7/’57)? Come with me
to Warbreccan station, on the lower
Thomson River in western Queensland.
About 20 miles west of the head-station,
on the edge of the plains, is Lillerie Tank,
and as we ride west over “top-rock”
country it rings like a bell under the
horses’ hooves, all the desert-gums and
napunias we pass have a great bulb
above ground-level, caused by the pinch
of the rocks where the tree has*forced a
way through a rift. A few miles further
on a suspicion of a creek-bed leads to a
gully which drops over a small cliff to a
cleft about 30ft. long and 10ft. wide. On
one side there is a wall of rock shaped
like a huge blackboard. A cat-walk, or
platform, juts out from the bottom edge
—obviously where the artists stood. The
whole wall is covered with deeply-carved
footprints of dingoes, ’roos, emus,
turkeys, etc., giving the impression that
they had scampered over it at the world’s
beginning before the molten rocks had
quite set.


__ rut uimitism
(^aalSswort
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
«««*** I T I « I I T * 11. ITS. mm
Business. Robbery.etc.
THE BOOM IN THE BEST
TN a period when there has
•*- been strikingly little radio-
activity in the mining share-
market, and the fallout among
the second- and third-line
industrials has been consider-
able, a high premium is being
paid for the old-fashioned,
homely virtues of good
management, financial strength
and broad trading opportuni-
ties A touch of monopoly
about an investment is also
well regarded.
In some respects the share-
market today resembles that
of the middle ’thirties —say a
year or so after Roosevelt
devalued the dollar. The gold-
mining boom had by then run
its course and speculators were
switching to industrials.
Possibly it was a case of the
concentration of wealth: the
numerous dabblers who were
sucked into the mining boom
had seen their money trans-
ferred, through the simple
processes of the sharemarket,
to the shrewder operators,
who, after cleaning-up, sought
some investment safer and, in
the long-run, far more profit-
able.
After the Mining Boom
On this occasion the back-
ground is quite different, but
the market position is rather
similar. Following a whale
of a boom in mining shares
that went through scheelite,
tin, oil, uranium, titanium and
lead and copper (in something
like that order), there has
been a strong swing-over to
first-class industrials, with a
regard for obviously up-and-
coming second-liners, but not
much time for industrials with
weak finances, narrowed
trading opportunities or doubt-
ful earning-power.
Overall, however, the share-
market is interesting and
active.
Wool-cheque Influence
It seems highly likely that
buoyancy in any section of
the market at present is sup-
ported by the investor’s own
funds, and that he is not
trading on borrowed money.
This, as a general thing, means
that income-earners in pros-
perous sections of the economy
are largely responsible for high
industrial-share prices; and
that in turn rather points to
the pastoral industry, more
particularly to woolgrowers.
The cheque for 1956-57 was
up nearly £l6O million on that
for 1955-56, and it is likely
that expenditure on properties
is not going on at as high a
rate as was necessary for
several years past.
Certain it is that no bank at
the present time would
wittingly make much money
available for dabbling on the
Stock Exchange, so it follows
that most money going into
investment has no strings
attached to it. It belongs to
investors themselves, and this
fact is also an item in invest-
ment strength.
A stabilising factor, too, is
*—and has been for some time
“I know you are innocent , but it will cost you half the
dough to prove it.”
buying by fixed - trusts.
Where a stock is on the list of
one or more fixed-trusts it is
rarely to be bought cheaply.
This is especially so where the
stock concerned is not always
freely available.
Another —growing—factor is
the investment of staff-fund
money in ordinary shares
bought on the Stock Exchange.
Life-assurance offices have
already made their presence
felt.
A further influence is
increased overseas interest in
Australian industrial invest-
ments.
Away Out in Front
With the first ripples of a
heavy flood of balance-sheets
now evident, interest in front-
line industrial stocks continues
to be maintained. Outstanding
are 8.H.P., A.C.1., Burns
Philp, Marrickville Holdings,
Davis Gelatine and Colonial
Sugar. The zest has been
taken out of the market for
Henry Jones, and 1.C.1., which
gives no promise of immediate
lush benefits, is bought to give
a yield of only 3.7 p.c., which
for the present is considered
by the market to be low
enough. British Tobacco
shareholders have already
heard about their new capital
arrangements, and excitement
there has died down.
But, as mentioned before, a
stiff premium continues to be
paid for, and a low yield
accepted from, stocks with
financial strength, good
management and a strategic
trading position.
The Textile Group
On the other hand, top-
class textile concerns aren’t in
market favor.
Even the best of those in
their class, such as Bradford
Cotton Mills, Australian
Woollen Mills and Yarra
Falls, are comparatively out
of favor at present.
Oddly, however, on the day
that Patons and Baldwins, the
big spinner of knitting- and
weaving-yarns, hit-out at the
Australian - Japanese trade -
agreement as a particular
menace to the textile industry,
the three stocks beforemen-
tioned showed some market
revival.
This was especially so in
the case of Australian Woollen
Mills. Recently on offer
around 28s. 6d., there were
sales on July 8 at 30s. 6d. This
is still below the ruling rate
earlier in the year. Bradford
Cotton, which went as high
as 435. 3d. earlier, has sold as
low as 375. 3d. following the
signing of the trade-treaty
with Japan. Buyers on July
8 offered 38s. Davies, Coop,
another large weaver of coarse
cotton-textiles, has recently
shown a record profit for the
past year, and Bradford should
also do well.
The question being debated
in the sharemarket is what is
likely to happen during the
current year, under the impact
of Japanese imports. In pre-war
years Bradford, at any rate,
found itself able to cope with
Japanese competition. What


The
advantages
of a
cheque account
with the
“Wales”
Among the many advantages of a cheque
account are the time and trouble saved in
making payments, the safety of paying by
cheque rather than by cash, and the complete
and permanent record of payments provided
by your cheque butts and bank statements.
In addition, many services are available to
all “Wales” customers including:^—
Travel service. The “Wales” will plan and
arrange your travel anywhere in the world.
Travellers’ cheques and letters of credit provide
the safest and most convenient means of travel
finance.
Gift cheques enable you to give the most
acceptable gift money in an attractive form.
Different cheques are available for weddings,
birthdays, Christmas, and general purposes.
Sending money. You can send money quickly
and easily by marl, air mail, telegram, or cable
anywhere in the world (subject to exchange control
regulations).
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Australia’s oldest and largest trading bank
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A 5 30C
shape this will take during the
present financial year has yet
to be determined.
Patons and Ealdwins itself
had a much better trading
experience in the last financial
period, and its shares have
moved up to 345. 6d., which is
14s. 6d. above the lowest price
for 1956. The company is
very solidly established and
its assets are most conserva-
tively valued.
Tooth Recovers
A stock that has been
obtainable at a bargain price
for several months has been
Tooth. Thousands of shares in
Australia’s biggest brewery
have been bought around 455.
Reason for the low price has
been the slight drop in liquor
sales since the increase in
excise in 1956, the reintroduc-
tion of land-tax in N.S.W. and
the considerable drift of drink-
ing from pubs to clubs. But,
following its bonus - issue,
Tooth has already started to
lift its div. again. The share-
market has now taken the scrip
to 505., with buyers still keen.
The ’Wales
Bank of N.S.W. has had a
strong run since its last new
issue of shares. Following the
announcement of the acquisi-
tion of a 40 p.c. interest in
Australian Guarantee Corp.
the £2O shares moved up to
within reach of £39, compared
with a lowest of £3O ss. in
1956.
A particularly interesting
outsider has been J. and A.
Brown Abermain - Seaham
Collieries, biggest coiliery-
owner in Australia. Its shares
were for a long time available
at 18s. They have moved up
to 245. 3d. in anticipation of the
next accounts. The co.’s strong
financial position has been
detailed here in recent weeks,
and apparently the market has
hopes of a 10 p.c. div., against
the present 8 p.c.
B H.P.
AS the time for consolidated
figures from 8.H.P., Aus-
tralian Iron and Steel and other
subsidiaries approaches, the
sharemarket has sent the price
of B.H.P. shares to a poxt-issue
record price of above 585.,
compared with an ex-rights
price of 40s. earlier this year.
What additional benefit,
apart from a new issue, the
sharemarket expects from
B.H.P. on this occasion is hard
to discern, unless it is a com-
plete change of financial
policy by the great iron-and-
steel concern.
It will be remembered that
it was only after a good deal
of press criticism of the old
p.c. div.-rate that a new rate
of 10 p.c. was established
during the 1955 term.
There is no doubt that ttys
rate is very comfortably
covered indeed by profit-
earning, and with much new
plant coming into operation
(including, now, the tinplate
works) profits should show
progressive lifts each year.
But the chairman of B.H.P.
at the last annal meeting
stressed the fact that depreci-
ation provision allowed under
the Taxation Department’s
scale was inadequate, and that
special provision out of profits
that had borne tax was neces-
sary in the interests of sound
finance. Mr. C. York Syme
also emphasised that in the
proposed large works-expan-
sion programme over the next
five years:—
Our third and a very important
sourer of finance is internal funds,
by which I mean our provisions
for depreciation anil replacement
of assets and the amount of profit
that remains after paying divi-
dends. Our shareholders are en-
titled to expect a lair return on the
money they have already sub-
scribed and on the money we hope
they will subscribe in the future.
Subject to the claims of share-
holders, we hope that our internal
funds will make a vital contribu-
tion to our expansion programme,
and will cover our capital require-
ments beyond those available from
other sources.
At the present juncture the speed
of carrying-out this programme de-
pends more on these matters of
finance than on the availability of
materials and manpower. in this
respect the situation has changed
markedly (luring the last year. If
unlimited finance were now avail-
able on reasonable terms we could
now advance faster than we are
planning to do, but, on the other
hand, if finances were further re-
stricted the planned rate of de-
velopment of our industry must be
adversely affected.
Mr. Syme also stressed the
fact that in order to plough-
back £6O of profit it was neces-
sary to earn £lOO, tax account-
ing for £4O. He also mentioned
that the group would borrow
£4 million during the past year,
“and further very substantial
additions will be necessary in
the following years.”
Clearly, a year ago B.H.P.
was keenly concerned about
ways and means of raising
money, not giving it away. The
price of steel had been raised
twice during the financial year.
Its output has certainly in-
creased very considerably
since, but so have its capital
commitments.
New issues of shares can be
expected from B.H.P. during
the next few years, and in total
they may be quite massive.
Also, they are likely to be at
par, even though* all issues
(except the last) since the war
have been at a 10s. premium.
At 58s. the immediate yield
from B.H.P. shares is £3 9s.
per cent.
Still in Business
[From Melbourne)
fyC ISCHJEVOUS reports,
originating in Melbourne
and published throughout Aus-
tralia, that the five companies
owningthe Melbourne Stevedor-
ing Co. A.U.S.N., Howard
Smith, Huddart Parker,
Mcllwraith McEacharn and
Adelaide Steam intended
forming a new land-transport
company because large-scale
general-cargo shipping on the
Australian coast was dead,
caused considerable con-
sternation for a few days.
What had really happened
was that the shipping companies
had priced the cost of loading-
terminals and fleets of trucks
with an eye to providing a
supplementary service for their
own ships, and, if it was
economic, a part-entry into
land-transport.
The reports, with comments


ascribed to shipping-company’s
officials (now denied), caused
dismay among the maritime
unionists and shipping staffs
and considerable concern to
shippers throughout the nation.
Although general-cargo
business on the Australian
coast declined last year, overall
cargo was a record ; and,
although some small shipping-
companies have gone out of
business in recent years, the
larger companies have £ 15-
million-worth of shipping on
order.
Aluminium and Power—
Etc.
[From “Kilowatt”]
TN B. 24/7/’57 “Old Open-
■ cut” suggested that
aluminium could be smelted
either near the Snowy Moun-
tains or in Tasmania.
“Snowy” power is peak-
load power; there is not
enough water in the Snowy
area for its power to be con-
sidered for industries which
demand firm power—24 hours
a day and 365 days a year.
All power-station planning
in N.S.W. and Victoria accepts
that the Snowy power-stations
will supply peak demands. The
steady base-loads can be sup-
plied much more cheaply from
steam stations sited on the coal-
fields. As for Tasmania, more
hydro-power can be developed
there, and will be. But it won’t
be cheap power. Sites that can
be inexpensively developed are
becoming hard to find ; new
stations are going to cost more
and more —£300 or £4OO per
kilowatt installed. Ordinary
industry can pay for such
power, but not aluminium-
production.
The Government - owned
aluminium plant at Bell Bay is
presently paying about id. a
unit for electricity. This is
very cheap by Australian
standards: industry in N.S.W.
pays 2d. and over. But Bell
Bay can’t produce metal at
world price ; its output is sold
at about £2O a ton above the
cost of overseas metal. (Except
when surplus metal must be
sold in Japan, when it fetches
less than world price.)
Steam-generation on the
coalfields certainly represents
the best chance of cheap power
for smelting aluminium in Aus-
tj alia. Whether private capital
would buy power from the
State commissions concerned,
cr generate it themselves,
would be a choice that would
have to be made. Alcoa,
Kaiser and Reynolds in the
U.S.A. are all of them building
new smelters to use power from
coal-fired stations; coal-
power, plus low transport costs,
may give cheaper metal than
water-power in a remote area.
Why is it that “Old Open-
cut” and thousands of others
are taking so much interest in
aluminium since development
of the bauxite deposits in Cape
York hit the headlines? The
world has plenty of bauxite,
and it is only worth about £3
a ton, f.o.b. The answer is per-
haps that because the Aus-
tralian Government is in the
business of aluminium produc-
tion, aluminium is politics.
Why is there not the same
interest in titanium? Australia
is the world’s main supplier of
rutile. We send it away for
£6O or £BO a ton, and when con-
verted into titanium it is worth
something like £2500.
Why don’t we think about
magnesium? This light metal
is not so widely used as
aluminium, but it is making
similar progress. It has the
advantage, as far as production
in Australia is concerned, that
thermal methods for producing
it have been developed com-
mercially, so that enormous
quantities of electric power are
not essential. The German
Volkswagen that has been
doing so well in Round Aus-
tralia trials has 361 b. of
magnesium in its engine and
transmission—more than has
been used in any other car to
date. The lightness of its
power-unit is certainly an
important reason for this car’s
performance.
On the face of it, Australia
would appear to be better
suited for the production of
either magnesium or titanium
than aluminium. When are
these metals going to get %
share of the public interest?
[From “Old Oi»encut“]
“Young Digger’s” criticism
(B. 31/7/’57) calls for com-
ment. A degree of subtlety in
grouping tonnages and a
broadened application of my
statements could mislead.
My production figures were
in long tons, and were quoted
from official statistical returns
issued in May of this year and
confirmed by direct inquiry. Of
course, I cannot say what has
been built in the last two
months, nor the optimum
figure aimed at in this fantastic
battle between the two major
belligerents—Alcoa of America
and Alcan of Canada.
1 am well aware of the
B A.C.’s capital investments in
the field of sheet, strip, plate,
rolled rod and bar, forgings,
castings and extrusions. B.A.C.
is also tied-in with the fabrica-
tion of this basic material into
end-products. My article dealt
with the processing of bauxite
into ingot-aluminium. Official
trade statistics still say the
B.A.C. uses £3-million capital
in this particular side of its
business.
Incidentally, its consolidated
figures show it does much
better from secondary fabrica-
tion than from primary produc-
tion.
It is true the collection,
neutralising and disposal of
furnace-gases have reduced the
hazard to general staff and
stopped the countryside being
denuded of vegetation. I
stressed the hazard of the crust-
breaking operation, for which
job it is difficult to provide
adequate safeguards at present.
White Papers and Medical
Research Council reports show
why these remedial processes
were necessary. If “Young
Digger” requires the unpleasant
details, I’m sure the Tasmanian
Department of Health will
oblige. It made a complete
study of the problem.
These reports explain why
many furnace-hands from the
old plants are now pottering
round the works, still alive and
on the payroll, but virtually
turned out to grass.
The health-risks are now well
known in the industry and to
the unions. Notwithstanding
“Young Digger’s” firm denial
I can reaffirm that all
aluminium-producers, includ-
ing Bell Bay, are troubled with
labor turnover in the reduction-
bays.
The industry will, of course,
ultimately become a safe one.
SINGAPORE POLYTECHNIC
The Board of Governors invite
applications for the following full-
time posts:
Senior Lecturer in Electrical
Engineering: Preferably a University
Graduate and/or Associate Member
of an appropriate Engineering
Institution with good teaching and
industrial experience. The depart-
ment is expected to provide courses
of the National and Fligher National
Certificates and/or Diploma type
and City and Guilds courses m
Installations, Electrical Engineering
Practice, Radio and Telecommunica-
tions.
Senior Lecturer in Machine Shop
Engineering: Preferably a man with
good practical experience including
apprenticeship and qualifications
such as a City and Guilds Final
Certificate, A.M.I. Prod. E., or their
equivalent. Should be able to super-
Mse a metrology laboratory and
other workshop courses such as
Welding and Motor Engineering.
librarian: An experienced person
with qualifications in Librarianship
to plan, equip and supervise a new
Technical Library.
Lecturers or Assistant Lecturers:
(1) Accountancy, Commerce.
(2) English and General Subjects.
(3) Maths, Chemistry and Physics.
(4) Telecommunications and
Mathematics.
Assistant Lecturers:
(1) Motor Vehicle Engineering.
(2) Carpentry and Joinery, Build-
ing Construction, etc.
(3) Plumbing, Domestic and
Sanitary Engineering.
(4) Electricians’ work.
The Polytechnic is being erected
on a 10 acre site on the water front
within one mile of the centre of
the city, the teaching blocks should
be ready by mid 1958. It is hoped
that persons appointed to the first
three posts mentioned will take
up duty early in 1958 and the
others by the middle of the year.
Appointmentg
All candidates should have suit-
able industrial or commercial and/
or teaching experience in Technical
Colleges. The grading of Lecturers
or Assistant Lectuiers, and the point
of entry into Salary Scales, will
depend upon qualifications and
experience Candidates should state
for which grade they are willing to
be considered.
Appointments of overseas persons
will be on contract, Senior Lecturers
for 6 years, with the option of
renewal tor a further three years;
other posts, in the first instance, on
contract tor three years. Accom-
modation with heavy furniture will
be provided at a rental ot MS 120/-
per month. Members of start pay
5% and the Board 15% of the salary
for an endowment Insurance Policy,
former policies under schernes such
as F.S.S.U. being taken over when
possible. The Board is prepared to
undertake negotiations with a view
to safeguaiding or carrying forward,
if possible, benefits under other
existing superannuation schemes. A
satisfactory medical report is
necessary. Free medical attention
is provided and half the cost of
maintenance in hospital. Passages
are paid for overseas staff, wives
and up to three children under
eighteen on fiist appointment, leave
and completion of service, leave
being at the rate of two months
per year’s service, maximum tour
tor Senior staff two years.
Salary Scales (inclusive of all
allowances).'
Senior Lecturers MSI,BO0 —MSSO
—MS 1,950 per month.
Librarian within the range
MS 1,500 —M 52,000 per month.
Lecturers MS 1,600 Msso
MS 1,750 per month.
Assistant Lecturers Grade B
MS 1,200 Msso MS 1,550 per
month.
Assistant Lecturers Grade A
MS 1,000 MSSO M 51,350 per
month.
(The Malayan Dollar is equal to
2/lid. Australian).
Application Forms available
from:
The Principal, Singapore Polytechnic,
P.O. Box 2023, SINGAPORE,
should be returned within one
month of the -publication of this
advertisement.


THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated, m Victoria under the “Companies Act 1890”) Head Office-335-339 Collins st., Melbourne.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
1. The Board of Directors submits to the Stockholders the accom-
panying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
30th June, 1907, with Auditors’ Report.
2. The Net Profit amounts to .. .. £558,308 11 G
to which is added amount brought forward 224,998 3 8
Making a total of .. ..
Prom this amount the Directors have made the follow-
ing appropriations, viz :
To Reduction of Bank Premises £50,000 O 0
„ Interim Dividend on Prefer-
ence Stock at 2% paid
February, 1957, in Aus-
tralian Currency .. .. 42,347 0 0
„ Interim Dividend on Ordin-
ary Stock at 5% paid Feb.,
1957, in Aus. Currency .. 205,293 8 0
leaving a Balance of .. ## ##
which it is proposed to apportion as follows:
To Final Dividend on Preference Stock at 2%
in Australian Currency ..
„ Final Dividend on Ordinary Stock at 5% in
Australian Currency .. *. I# . „, ~
„ carry forward to next year M M
£783,300 15 2
£485,666 7 2
3. In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the year’s opera-
tions as shown in the Profit and Loss Account have not been materially
affected by items of an abnormal character.
. During the year, Branches have been opened at Caulfield and
Heidelberg West in Victoria; Greenaere in .New South Wales and at 34
Piccadilly, West End, London. The Receiving Offices at Padstow and
Matraville in New South Wales and Kingston in the Australian Capital
.territory have been converted into Branches.
5. The Directors record their regret at the untimely death of the
late General Manager, Mr. Edward Cook, and their appreciation of the
valuable services he rendered to the Bank.
6. In accordance with the Articles of Association, two Directors
retire by rotation at this Meeting, viz., Mr. V. Y. Kimpton and Mr. F. S.
Vine, C.M.G. They are eligible for re-election and have given the
necessary notice of candidature.
7. Mr. W. S. Philip having resigned the position of Auditor of the
Bank, the Directors appointed Mr. H. P. Glass to fill the casual vacancy
thus created. The Meeting will be required to elect two Auditors for the
ensuing twelve months.
The Transfer Books will be closed from 5 p.m. on sth August until
the 20 th August inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
H. F. CLARKE,
Melbourne, 25th July, 1957. General Manager.
Balance Sheet of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMIftD as at 30th JUNE, 1957
(Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
Authorised Capital— LIABILITIES
300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each £3,000,000
14,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10/- each.,, .7,000,000
Issued and Fully Paid Capital—
-211,735 Preference Stock Units of £lO
per unit
8,211,730 Ordinary Stock Units of 10/-
per unit +*
10,000,000
2,117,350
4,105,868
Paid-up Capital •. v
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the
Bank) .. ..
Final Dividends' proposed payable, August,
1957 ..
Balance of Profit and Loss Account ■<« ■«,
6,223,218
3,610,000
247,640
238,026
&
Total Stockholders’ Funds ».
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities,
including provisions for Taxation and
Contingencies ». .. .. .. .. ~ ». ».<
Notes in Circulation .. .. ..
Balances due to Other Banks .. •« .. ..
Amount due to Subsidiary Company «...
10,318,884
205,071,777
5,101
2,028,674
100
217,424,536
Contingent Liabilities on Letters of Credit, Drafts,
Guarantees and Other Engagements .. .. ....
11,064,408
£228,488,944
Coin, Bullion, Australian and .Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers .. .. ,* »»
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks .. .. „ M
Balances with and due from Other Banks .» »,
Money at Short Call in London .. , „
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market value) —
Australian Government 18,404,008
Other Government 1,170,902
Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities 403,683
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. ««
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) ..
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost, less amounts
written off)
Shares in wholly-owned Subsidiary Company (at cost).
(The Subsidiary Company has not traded at any
time, and has made neither Profit nor Loss; its only
Assets is a Deposit of £lOO with this Bank) .. ..
All Other Assets .. .. .. .. .. .. .. > • * «
Contingent Assets including Liabilities of Customers and
Others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.,
as per contra. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
£13,159,941
7,901,186
440,163
4,343,760
600,000
19,978,593
35,148,000
16,995,825
88,467,468
112,648,065
6,606,378
100
802,535
217,424,536
11,064,408
£228,488,944
I
Profit & Loss Account of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LI D. in respect of the year ended 30th JUNE, 1957
( Expressed to the nearest £ in Australian Currency)
To Expenses—Head Office, 734 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Fees, £4,500) ..
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes ..
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down
£5,767,519
708,377
558,309
(Co Amounts written off Bank Premises *.
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1957
Final, proposed payable August, 1957 ..
247,641
247,640
n Balance carried forward •• ■&■%> j# •; • • ■*
£7,124,205
50,000
495,281
238,026
£783,307
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Commis-
sions and Other Income after deducting Interest Paid
and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills Current at
balance date and Appropriations to the credit of Con-
tingencies Accounts (out of which Accounts provision
for all Bad and Doubtful Debts has been made) .. *«
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year .. .. . .. .. ... . .
By Balance
)•••
£
7,124,205
224,998
558,309
£783,307
£238,026
1 11ENKY FOLLETT CLARKE, General Manager of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that the Reserve Fund and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss
Account of the Bank are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true in particular. , ovnvpr
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: WILLIAM SYDNEY
REID, Esq., Manufacturer, Melbourne; VICTOR YULE KIMPTON, Esq., Flour Miller, Melbourne; COLIN FORSYTH MEARES, Esq., Solicitor,
Melbourne- NORMAND HILL, Esq., Wool Broker, Melbourne; FRANCIS SEYMOUR VINE, Esq., C.M.G., Manufacturer, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parlia-
ment of Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 25th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-seven.
•R P f m . A r. tt ‘satitit A Commissioner for taking Declarations and tj p CLARKE.
Beioie me—R. H. SMIIH. Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 3 928."
of the business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board, V. Y. KIMPTON, COLIN F. MEARES.
Dated at Melbourne this 25th day of July, 1957.
AUDITORS' REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
To the Stockholders of THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED. Melbourne, 25th July, 1957.
We & report” that 6 we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the year ended 30th June, 1957, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet
is properly o drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s affairs and that the Profit and Loss Account is
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year, according to the best of our
information and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books of the Company.
The London Office and West End Branch Returns to the 30th June, 1957, duly audited by Messrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., have been submitted
to us the Assets and Liabilities at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the Managers and Accountants
We have received every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and they have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have
required. We are, Ladles and Gentlemen, Yours faithfully.
E. FOOKES
HAROLD P. GLASS
Chartered Accountants (Australia)


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Ruggiero Ricci
When the young Italian
violinist appeared for the first
time with the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra under
Efrem Kurtz he made it a
double-concerto programme:
the Bruch No. 1 and the
Paganini No. 1.
Max Bruch, the Gentile who
composed the most famous of
all pieces associated with the
Jewish religion— the “Kol
Nidrei” —poured an abundance
of lovely melodies into the first
of his three violin concertos,
and Ricci soon showed that a
lush tone right along his instru-
ment’s gamut was at his easy
command. Despite the vigor-
ous rhythmic energies of the
final section, the work is
built around cantabile- like
themes, and in these —more
particularly that which
envelopes almost the whole of
the slow middle movement —-
Ricci’s tone could be. likened to
that of a soprano of flawless
quality. The passages in
triplets which mark the early
part of the final allegro—
against the orchestra’s beauti-
fully sketched-in background—•
were spun with the greatest
delicacy.
The contrast offered by the
Paganini was striking. A
virtuoso work, it allowed the
violinist to pull every arrow
out of his technical quiver:
tremendous scale-runs, double-
stopping, double - harmonics,
dazzling pizzicati —he swept
through them all with ease and
a tonal perfection which places
him in the same rank as
Heifetz, Biman, Stern and
Kreisler.
At his first recital a couple
of nights later Ricci had the
collaboration at the piano of
Raymond Lambert —and very
urbane and polished it was.
There were three sonatas:
Beethoven’s “Spring,” in which
the dialogue was tossed from
fiddle to keyboard and back
again with fine verve ; Tartini’s
“Devil’s Trill,” with clear,
hard trilling followed by
showers of notes, crackling and
spitting ; and the Schumann
First, a work far from the
composer’s best, its only attrac-
tive phase being the pastoral
serenity of the allegretto.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
Hamlet Unhammed
Many actors goodness
knows how many have
hammed Hamlet, and at Mel-
bourne Comedy the other even-
ing Mr. Paul Rogers, an
English actor, unhammed him.
RUGGIERO RICCI
He performed this remarkable
feat simply by humbly follow-
ing Shakspeare’s own prescrip-
tion. In short, his was not an
interpretation but a reflection.
The present commentator
has seen many, too many,
Hamlets and can’t remember
having seen one as good or even
half so good as Mr. Rogers’s,
or so continuously capable of
holding his attention. His intro-
spective stare was as compel-
ling as his easy natural way of
speaking, and there was as com-
plete an absence of artifice in
his acting as there is in Shak-
speare’s language.
Mr. Rogers apparently holds
by the old-fashioned doctrine
that a playwright should be
allowed to speak for himself
and that it isn’t the business of
an actor to bring out some
alleged hidden meaning in him.
He held up his well-polished
mirror to Shakspeare’s portrait
and the reflection was so good
that it moved a young lady in
the foyer, who was obviously
seeing “Hamlet” for the first
time, to say, “Isn’t it a good
play?”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
Borovansky Ballet
Comparing Elaine Fifield
with Dame Margot after the
former’s wonderful perform-
ance at the opening of a new
season of ballet by the Boro-
vansky Ballet at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne, is a superfluous
proceeding. Dame Margot
wasn't seen in “Francesca da
Rimini,” for instance, and this
terrible and silent tragedy asks
of its dancer something
entirely different to the roles
which Dame Margot danced in
Australia. “Francesca da
Rimini” is short, pathetic and
convincing, and Miss Fifield,
natural and poised in her
gliding movements, sang its
sadness to perfection. She
mimed the plight of Fran-
cesca, torn between her sense
of duty and her love of the
handsome Paulo, with complete
sureness.
The curtain fell on the
tragedy of Francesca with a
sword shoved through her
tummy and rose on a dazzling
Christmas-party of candybox
characters romping their way
through Tschaikowsky’s lovely
“Nutcracker” music with the
utmost vigor. Peggy Sager
danced the Sugarplum Fairy
with a crisp, precision and
Ahda Glasbeek, two kerosene-
tins tall, showed an astonishing
precosity as Clara.
Jr. Jr. J+
V V v
“Macbeth”
Since Sydney lacks a
permanent Shakspearian com-
pany—which, really, it should
be able to support —one should
be grateful for any perform-
ance that offers, but it was
impossible not to be disap-
pointed with the current
“Macbeth” at the Independent
Theatre, North Sydney.
The weaknesses are many,
but the shortcomings of the
two principals for their roles
more-or-less foredoomed the
play from the beginning.
Leonard Teale’s Macbeth was
a curiously flat and unexcit-
ing character, so that, with
nothing of greatness to destroy,
there was really no tragedy.
Patricia Hill’s Lady Mac-
beth was highly animated,
but with an emotional turbu-
lence and a spitting temper that
suggested weakness rather than
strength. Even if one takes
Chesterton’s view of Lady
Macbeth as a suburban house-
wife trying to do better than
the Smiths next door, strength
and ruthlessness are still
required. Despite the many
varieties of her acting, Miss
Hill failed to convey those
essential qualities.
Owen Weingott’s production
was straightforward enough
until it fell down on the
murder of Macduff’s family;
thereafter it steadily degener-
ated, so that the final battle
scene was in grievous danger of
tumbling into slapstick—he
would have done better to have
settled for the fight between
Macduff and Macbeth instead
of staging an all-in brawl and
littering the stage with corpses.
♦> <* *>
“Antigone”
The charm of Anouilh’s
“Antigone” is not, of course,
in any relation it bears to the


permanent asset
on your property
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder on 1000-
BSCO Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and loading
platforms available as
extras if required
• Prompt delivery
m 1000-
>ading jsk
J
W
®SBSKSSS?®w i-
■
vs \ ' y
•xvV-V ' 'Cs2.v
:.- ■
&ws *. Hava ihovsai
f w
rrv • >x*x
&SC&: x
55533
JK vj
fjfe' ''Oart r >c
• '
IYSAGHT
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra ring of
corrugated steel sheets filled with earth or
sand, is a most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated base for
your Lysaght Silo. The use of an earth ring
reduces the risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain auger is
now available to fill and empty Lysaght
Silos. Outstanding features include:
• Unique centre drive unit (Patent
pending No. 22636/56).
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts completely en-
cased.
• Adjustable chute tube.
Crain Siios
AND AUGERS
GRAIN SILO PRICES
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
S26C
Greek tragedy ; it is almost
entirely in the modern sharp
Gallic observation of a woman
determined to have what she
wants, despite all logical argu-
ments to the contrary ; and in
a similar observation of a
rather weary politician trying
to reach some sort of com-
promise between humaneness,
politics and commonsense.
Thus, although Antigone
insists on burying the body of
her worthless brother when
she knows the penalty is death,
and insists on dying when she
is offered a way out, she might,
for the purposes of the argu-
ment, be just as well insisting
on buying a new hat although
she knew her Uncle Creon
couldn’t afford it. Similarly,
Uncle Creon, instead of trying
to argue her into living instead
of dying, could just as well be
trying to convince her of the
inevitable consequences of
writing a cheque for a tenner
when there's only a fiver in the
bank.
It is these ordinary, every-
day qualities, seen by a sharp
mind and presented with an
admirable sense of theatre,
which give the play its novelty
and immediate appeal— not any
alleged parallel to France sup-
pressed by Nazi invaders. It is
also these qualities which can-
not be tied-in convincingly with
the end of the play—the
mathematical progression of
Greek tragedy with Antigone’s
death joined with that of
Creon’s son and wife.
The essential human qualities
of Antigone and Creon were
nicely brought out by Beverley
Harte and John Cooper in the
performance at the Sydenham
Pocket Playhouse, Sydney, Miss
Harte holding without falter to
an intense emotional pitch
throughout, and Mr. Cooper
changing his moods and
arguments through cajolery,
anger and plain commonsense
as the occasion demanded.
*l* <«
Youth Symphony Orchestra
Under the baton of Gorden
Hay the National Youth
Orchestra of Australia seems to
be maintaining a steady rate of
improvement, and iff its latest
programme at Sydney Con.
there were quite a few items for
the credit side of the ledger.
There was, for instance, the
Snap given to the various
rhythmic devices of Rossini’s
bustling “Thieving Magpie”
Overture, and in the winding-
llP of it the four trombones
produced excellent tone and
weight.
Rosemary Marriot’s harp
and Ron Cooper’s flute supplied
some neat embroidery for the
strings in Vaughan Williams’s
“Fantasia on Greensleeves.”
Films
* l r u n»
Brink or rieii
Captain William Holden,
having “cracked” in Korea
under Communist torture and
brainwashing, has his loyalties
suspect when he goes as test-
pilot to a US - Air Force
experimental rocket-station.
His rehabilitation requires
him to save his C.O.’s life by


THIS IS YOUR
BIST INVESTMENT
BARGAIN
The investment world recognises that unduly high returns maf
be accompanied by a corresponding lack of security or assurance
of continuing income . Commonwealth Loans offer investors
a good , steady return • • • full protection of their capital,
through an unconditional Commonwealth guarantee of
repayment at full face value on maturity ... and regular
payment of interest at the stipulated rate for the full period
of the investment. The net yield (after taxation) is considerably
increased by an Income Tax rebate* of 2/ - in each £1 of
Commonwealth Loan interest included in an investor’s taxable
income. Lodge your application now through any bank , savings
bank or stockbroker •
• Not exceeding the amount of tax otherwise payable.
YOU MAY SELECT FROM
5% SECURITIES Issued at par
Maturing April 15,
1965
Maturing April 15,
1976
L.
Minimum Subscription, £lO
r 4% SECURITIES
Issued at £99/5/- per tent, yielding
£4-9-0% per annum
Maturing May 15,
1959 j
L Minimum Subscription, £lOO M
INVEST NOW IN THE NEW
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT. IN ALL'STATES
£ CONVERT 3V<% COMMONWEALTH SECURITI'S maturing August 15,1957,
into new Bonds or Inscribed Stock on the terms offered for the new Cash Loan
issued bv the Commonwealth Treasury.
295L4.2/E
making a spectacular double-
landing when a berserk tail-
parachute precludes a normal
landing, and to make a rocket-
plane flight up around
100,000 ft. and to descend from
thereabout by parachute when
the craft gets out of control.
That he is predestined to a
happy ending is a foregone
conclusion.
There is nevertheless plenty
of excitement, and the aerial
shots alone, with sleek fighters
tumbling about the sky in
breathtaking manoeuvres and
shooting vertically up at dizzy
speeds, are worth a visit.
William Holden does the
grim-faced, manly stuff with
aplomb, and Lloyd Nolan, as
the efficient trump whose early
suspicions break down under
mounting evidence to the
contrary, does a good job.
Vivien Leith adds a modicum
of tepid romantic interest to
the doings. At Sydney Plaza.
<*►
“Bundle of Joy”
Back in the distant past
when the situation was first
hatched it was probably con-
sidered uproarious to have a
single girl pick up a newly-
abandoned baby on the steps
of a foundling-home and then
have the devil’s own job to
convince the sceptics it wasn’t
hers.
When Ginger Rogers did
the same story in celluloid in
the ’thirties she added some
piquancy to the role by making
it very hard-boiled; here,
the sweetly-innocent, baby-
faced Debbie Reynolds never
makes the situation convinc-
ing. Eddie Fisher croons his
way with practised unease
through the role of the son of
the bra-and-bangle baron, in
which part old-stager Adolphe
Menjou is a sheer delight. At
Sydney Mayfair.
❖ +♦♦
“Crime of Passion”
This slow-moving drama at
Sydney Palace seems to mis-
read the title, for the lady in
the case calmly, and after
great deliberation and
preparation, shoots her
detective - inspector seducer
simply because he refuses to
let their illicit relationship
interfere with his judgment as
to her husband’s claims for
promotion.
Barbara Stanwyck, using
her light-baritone with melo-
dramatic inflections, is the
hole-plugger, and Sterling
Hayden the phlegmatic detec-
tive who has to bring in his
own wife for moider.


Experienced I Management of Agricultural and Pastoral Properties
fCv?
95*
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1871
TR55.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee
Company, has a wide association with the administration of rural properties.
It provides efficient management, safeguards the interests of dependents,
and provides ample security for the performance of Trusts at a fixed and
moderate cost.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
★ Advantages of appointing the Company as your Executor either alone or
jointly with some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed 6£,ale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,V2.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.S.,
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
D. 5.0.. M.C., V.D. (Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
Syme; R. H. Norman, D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
David Wilson M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G.. D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
■pURTHER progress was made by the
■*- Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co. last term, income of the life
departments exceeding £1 million for the
first time since the co. was formed over
60 years ago. The Metropolitan writes
ordinary, industrial and accident business
in the three eastern States and South
Australia.
As is the case with most life cos., the
emphasis has been on the ordinary depart-
ment in recent years, collection and
administrative costs making industrial
business increasingly expensive.
Nevertheless industrial business has
not been neglected (it provides a con-
venient method of saving), and last term
(to December 31, ’56) 6089 new industrial
policies were issued assuring £710,013
(up £73,611). The ordinary department
accepted 3067 proposals, assuring
£1,731,409, the total increase in new
business (£2,441,422) amounting to
£181,630.
Income from the two departments
(excluding £41,267 “profit on realisa-
tion”) increased by £48,303 to £1,018,756:
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds. '
£*£ £ £ £
1951.. 318,421 107,067 58,077 153,277 2,087,124
From General Dept., £lO,OOO .. 2,097,124
1952.. 354,107 142,390 65,328 146,389 2,243,513
,1953.. 410,717 137,256 84,072 189,389 2,432,902
Tax refund, £5661 .. * * l 099 791 <? noo
1954.. 461,613 152,899 90,654 j 1 ~
Tax refund, £9211 .. .. .. 2,665,834
Profit on realisation, £4318 .. .. 2,670,152
1955.. 519,468 172,685 103,816 242,967 2,913,119
Profit on realisation, £23,023 .. 2,936,142
1956.. 558,450 187,079 112,365 259,006 3,195,148
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1951, £3461 ; 1952,
£3884 ; 1953, £4282 ; 1954, £4756 ; 1955, £5698;
1956, £6871.
The industrial department progressed at
a slower rate:
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Total
Dec., Income. Claims, penses.* Funds. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 433,327 194,168 124.310 114,849 2.210,376
From General Dept., £4OOO .. .. 2,214,376
1952.. 432,774 231,132 136,784 64,858 2,279,234
1953.. 447,018 254,405 136,909 55,704 2,334,938
Tax refund, £7368 .. .. t „
1954.. 441,983 277,502 130,496 j 4 *’ 6to ’ zyx
Tax refund, £9627 .. ~ .. 2,385,918
Profit on realisation, £3708 .. .. 2,389,626
1955.. 450,985 299,368 137,157 14,460 2,404,086
Profit on realisation, £18,244 .. 2,422,330
1956.. 460,306 305,931 140,429 13,946 2,43«;276
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1951, £2000; 1952,
£2462; 1953, £5750; 1954, £3000; 1955, £3556;
1956, £3900.
Of the higher income, premiums (up
£34,619) accounted for £779,350 and
interest, rents, etc., for £239,406 (up
£13,684). After, meeting claims and
expenses and providing £10,771 for divs.
to shareholders, £272,952 was added to
the life funds and reserves, raising them
(with the capital-profits mentioned earlier)
to £5,631,424.
There was little change in the propor-
tion of premiums absorbed by claims,
and outgoings were kept well under con-
trol,. commissions and expenses taking
23.38 p.c. (down 0.32 p.c.) of O.D.
premium-income and 36.81 p.c. (down
0.04 p.c.) of industrial premiums. The net
interest-rate also improved, rising from
£4 Bs. p.c. to £4 9s. 2d., further increas-
ing the margin between actual and
assumed earning-rates (21 p.c. to 2| p.c.)
used in valuing liabilities under policies.
It is the surplus arising from the difference
between assumed and actual rates which
forms the basis of bonus-distributions to
policyholders, last term’s bonuses being
calculated on the higher scale adopted in
the preceding term.
In the general or accident department
(which works for shareholders), premium
income edged forward by £986, to
£49,409, while the surplus was £928
stronger at £8540, from which share-
holders received divs. of £4229. The
balance went to the staff-fund (£800),
depreciation (£3O), and reserves (£3481).
At the end of the term reserves (includ-
ing £6980 for unexpired risks) stood at
£139,128.
There was little alteration to the invest-
ment pattern, available funds going into
public securities (up £164,803) and share-
holdings, etc. (up £70,514) :
1955. p.e. 1956. p.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £317,212 5.6 £306,909 5.1
Public securities, etc. 3,635,161 63.7 3,&00,26i 63.2
Shareholdings, etc. 1,176,459 20.6 1,247,073 20.7
Mortgages .. .. 223,111 3.9 250,830 4.2
Loans on policies.. 207,546 3.9 228,525 3.8
Book debts .. 142,167 2.5 143,458 2.4
Cash .. 6,912 0.1 37,255 .6
£5,708,868 £6,014,314
Shareholdings include scrip in two sub-
sidiary cos., Metropolitan Accident, Fire
and General Insurance Co., Ltd. (paid
capital £29,340), and Union Invest-
ment Co., Ltd. (paid capital £186,019), the
profits of these cos. being included in the
accounts to the extent of divs. received.
Custom Credit Corporation, Ltd.
OPREADING its nets wide, this young
and growing hire-purchase co. earlier
this year got into the news with its
offer to finance housing and migrants’
passages, on a large scale, on terms.
Neither proposal seems to have gained
much official support, but it was a
characteristic display of enterprise on the
part of Custom Credit.
The co. got under way in 1953 at a
propitious time of rapidly expanding
demand for motor-cars and household
goods, and the close association with one
of the country’s biggest private trading-
banks, the National, which provided
agency-services at all its Australian
branches and assisted financially, helped
things along.-
Types of transactions financed cover
industrial, agricultural, commercial and
private needs, including house- and
property-improvements.
Paid capital, £50,000 to start with, had
grown by par issues to £500,000 at June
30, 1954, and to £3,000,000 a year later,
in which the bank had a 40 p.c. interest.
For most of its funds, however, the co.
has relied on borrowing on registered
mortgage-debenture stock and unsecured
notes.
At June 30 last debenture-stock and
notes on issue amounted to £22,560,481,
of which £9,181,135 was due for repay-
ment within 12 months and the rest at the
end of a year or longer. Interest-rates


range up to p.c. a year on short-term
money, and up to 7 p.c. for loans of three
years or more. »
It has been a very flexible and profitable
method of financing growth. Share-
holders got 10 p.c. for the 1954 term,
followed by a 15 p.c. div. each year
since:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serve's. serves.
£ £ £ £
1954 . 53,457 10 p.e. - 21,458 31,999 31,999
Prelim, exes, written off, £6982 .. 25,017
1955 ..441,900 15 p.c. = 218,750 223,150 248,167
1956 ..632,800 15 „ „ 450,000 182,800 430,967
1957 ..780,907 15 „ „ 450,000 330,907 761,874
Operating expenses (£2,327,526, up
£910,097), representing mainly the cost of
borrowing money, were heavier last year,
and, together with extra provision made
for depreciation (£12,662, up £5069) and
taxation (£543,007, up £109,949), kept
the net gain in the year’s gross income
(up £1,173,222 to £3,664,102) to £148,107.
Nevertheless the £780,907 profit claimed
was slightly more ‘than 26 p.c. on the
£3,000,000 of capital, and, after paying
the div., the co. could fatten reserves
(£761,874) with £330,907.
The table doesn’t include the results of
the National and General Insurance Co.,
a wholly-owned offshoot, set up with a
nominal capital of £500,000 to provide
insurance cover on hired goods. Last
year it showed a net profit of £8779
(up £5235). It also lends useful support
to Custom Credit’s activities with deposits
and advances, £2,027,381 at March 31
last.
At the end of the parent’s year in
June balances outstanding on agreements
had increased £8,452,400, and £5,926,533
was added to the debenture- and note-
debt :
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Resen'es .. 248,167 430,967 • 761,874
Debentures,
notes .. 9,850,192 16,633,948 22,560,481
Due to subsid. 238,000 1,479,578 2,019,200
Unearned income 1,388,530 2,310,255 3,237,979
Sundry creditors 116,821 353,645 361,873
Staff fund .. 7,438
Tax provision 250,000 433,300 547,425
Final div. .. 152,083 225,000 225,000
£15,251,231 £24,866,693 £32,713,832
Office equipment 57,509 92,269 117.333
Shares subsid. 250,000 250,000 250,000
H.-p. contracts,
etc. .. 11,084,947 21,634,904 30,087,304
Sundry debtors 6,845 52,071 7,151
Cash, etc. .. 3,851,930 2,837,449 2,252,044
£15,251,231 £24,866,693 £32,713,832
Cash in hand and at short call was
down £585,405 to £2,252,044.
Noticeably more attention has been
given to the co.’s scrip this year on
’Change, sending the ss. ords. up from
Bs. 9d. to 13s. Referring to specula-
tion on the possibility of an increase in
capital the chairman declared that such a
move would be considered “according to
circumstances.”
The expansion of hire-purchase busi-
ness in Australia continues, but the pace is
much sedater now than a few years back,
hence the co.’s excursion into the fields
of housing and immigration.
At 13s. the return from the ss.
shares on the basis of a 15 p.c. div. is
5.8 p.c. Net tangible asset backing is
6s. 3d.
Dennys, Lascelles, Ltd. (Geelong)
A DECADE of favorable seasons and a‘
generally strong demand for wool
have given new strength to this Victorian
woolbroker and stock-and-station agent
which this year celebrates the 100th
anniversary of the founding of the wool-
broking section of its business. The coi,
with headquarters in Geelong and 37
branches spread throughout Victoria and
the southern Riverina, handles approxi-
mately 9 p.c. of the Victorian wool-clip.
Last term a 1\ p.c. bonus was added to
the basic 10 p.c. div.-rate to bring the
average distribution over the last 10
years to 15.8 p.c.—well above the 5.1 p.c.
average for the preceding 10 years. The
higher distribution has been achieved
despite the introduction of additional
share-capital in 1950 (three-for-10 issue
at a 50 p.c. premium) ahd 1955 (two-for-
five at par), which raised paid, capital to
£546,000, all in £1 ords.
During the year to June 30 last Dennys,
Lascelles sold a total of 122,185 bales of
wool, exceeding its previous record,
established in 1956, by 14,943 bales, and,
with the average price for the Australian
clip 18.13 d. higher at 79.84 d. per lb.,
lifting net earnings by over 24 p.c.
The return from land sales was main-
tained at a “very satisfactory” level, and,
although fewer sheep and cattle were
handled, improved values compensated
for the decline in numbers.
Gross earnings increased by £118,781
to £934,650 and, although expenses
claimed an extra £53,358 (at £599,029),
the board was able to write net profit
£32,089 stronger at £164,733 after setting
aside £126,500 (up £28,500) for taxation
and £35,050 (up £4834) for deprecia-
tion :
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
A £ £ £
1952 ... 67,642 15 p.c\ = 58,500 9,142 335,062
Written back to investments, £IOOO 336,062
1953 . . 100,490 15 p.c. = 58,500 41,990 378,052
Profit sale assets, etc., £10,152 .. 388,204
Tax overprovision, £22,256 .. .. 410,460
To staff fund, etc., £19,433 .. .. 391,027
W/off premises, £66,000 .. .. 325,027
1954 .. 132,617 20 p.c. = 78,000 54,617 379,644
Profit sale assets, etc., £7593 .. 387,237
Tax overprovided. £420 .. .. 387,657
Unexplained addition, £415 . . .. 388.072
1955 . . 147,953 171p.c.= 87,750 60,203 448,275
Profit sale assets. £4409 .. .. 452,684
Depreciation bonds, £1406 .. .. 451,278
Staff fund, £2OOO 449,278
Tax overprovided, £IOB2 .. .. 450,360
1956 .. 132,644 16 p.c. = 87,360 45,284 495,644
Profit sale assets, £3610 .. .. 499,254
Tax overprovided, £6OB .. .. 499,862
Written-back investments, £906 .. 500,768
Accrued long-service leave, £14,236.. 486,532
1957 . . 164,733 171p.c.= 95,550 69,183 555,715
* Subject to intangibles, £83,428 at 30/6/’57.
The \l\ p.c. div. (lifted from 16 p.c.)
was comfortably covered by the earnings,
which equalled a return of 30.1 p.c. on
share-capital, compared with 24.3, 27.1,
34 and 25.7 p.c. in the four preceding
years, sizeable reserves reducing the
return from total shareholders’ funds, as
they stood at the commencement of the
term, to a pleasing 15.8 p.c. A provision
(amounting to £14,236) was made out of
profits to cover long-service leave earned
in previous years, and, including capital-
profits, etc., the net addition to reserves
was £60,071.
In 1955 valuations of the co.’s principal
Geelong freeholds indicated a market-
value at least £500,000 above the cost-
ZeAS'-depreciation figure shown in the
balance-sheet and, with disclosed reserves
of £555,715, or £9715 greater than paid
capital, shareholders enjoy a high degree
of security:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £546,000 £546,000 £546,000
Reserves .. ... 448,275 495,644 555,715
Creditors, etc. .. 204,007 231,308 213,081
Staff funds .. 44,320 46,320 59,516
Tax provision .. 91,000 98,000 126,500
Final div. ». 68,250 60,060 68,250
£1,401,852 £1,477,332 £1,569,062
Freeholds .. .. 307,623 386,507 401,722
Plant, etc. .. 82,056 82,642 81,605
Stock .. .. 54,655 36,087 42,410
Debtors .. .. 547,353 702,998 674,047
Cash, etc. .. 326,737 185,670 285,850
Goodwill .. .. 83,428 83,428 83,428
£1,401,852 £1,477,332 £1,509,062
During the term the co. purchased the
building in which its Bendigo (Victoria)
branch is situated (the book-value of free-
holds increasing by £15,215), but still
managed to finish the year with an extra
£IOO,IBO in cash, bonds, etc. Book-debts,
including advances, dropped by £28,951,
after jumping by almost 120 p.c. over the
two preceding terms.
The accounts give the f.-p. £1 ords. a
net tangible cover of 375. 4d., the scrip at
545. returning 6.4 p.c. from a \l\ p.c. div.
Preliminary estimates forecast a further
increase in wool-production in the 1957-58
season, and although prices tended to
weaken towards the close of last season
the outlook for the selling-season which
opens later this month is favorable.
Tecnico, Ltd.
'T'HE growing popularity of television
and financial support from the
English parent-co. helped Tecnico, Ltd.,
to get back on to a profit-earning basis
last term, and the co. finished up in front
for the first time since 1954.
Formed as the Eastern Trading co.,
Ltd., in 1924, the co. later changed its
name to E.T.C. Industries, .Ltd., and in
1942 adopted the present title. War-time
contracts followed by a strong demand
for domestic appliances led to expansion
of the co.’s manufacturing facilities, and
paid capital rose from £IOO,OOO to
£815,000 in the six years to 1951. As
the domestic - appliance market
approached saturation, however, and local
production increased, Tecnico was unable
to obtain the level of turnover essential
for the economic use of its plant, running
up losses of £111,840 in 1955 and £50,770
in 1956. The advent of television gave
the co. a chance to overcome its troubles
by increasing overall production, finance
coming from the world-wide Pye organi-
sation, which acquired a major share-
holding in October, 1955. Pref.-share-
holders last received a div. in 1953, the
last payment on the ords. going out in
the previous year.
Paid capital, including £40,000 in
p.c. prefs. and £145,000 in 5 p.c. prefs.,
reached £910,500 early in the current
term, when 75,000 £1 ords. were issued to
Pye, Ltd.
Radios, floor - polishers, vacuum-
cleaners, powered lawnmowers and other
domestic appliances, as well as TV-
receivers, carry the Pye-Tecnico label,
while subsidiary cos. manufacture and
service aircraft instruments (Bendix-
Tecnico Pty.) and turn out water-pumps,


ARTS
Circular Charts for alt type*
of Recording Instruments
tor any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEFD
_ QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
TO
HU
!! H
U
1 Si
U
&
Mi
v
tm
3VT
Pay Day is a busy day for the Bank. Money flows
out for the payment of wages, bills and commit-
ments of every kind; thousands of customers in
every walk of life transact business at Head Office
or at one of the many branches of the Bank; but
to wise families Pay Day has another meaning. It
is the day which gives them an opportunity to add
to their savings.
A
*
*
The C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
offers every member of your family
a simple means of making money
grow.
Open a C.B.C. savings account
at any branch of the bank next
Pay Day.
Deposits in the C.B.C. Savings
Bank are guaranteed by the parent
Company.
■ ; THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
electrical equipment, Iffc. (F. W.
Davey and .Co. Ply.).
After getting away to a slow
start (a little over a year ago),
sales of TV-receivers have
picked-up rather well over the
past few months and forecasts
that 100,000 sets would be sold
in the first year of transmission
appear to be a lot more
accurate than they did earlier
in the term. The number of
receivers licensed on July 30
this year was 88,932, compared
with 54,835 at the end of May
and 31,936 two months earlier.
The two operating sub-
sidiaries traded profitably last
term, but the earnings of
Bendix-Tecnico (in which the
Bendix Aviation Corp. of
America holds 49 p.c. of the
scrip) were affected by the drop
in aircraft-production, the two
cos. contributing £9154 (down
£1571 p.a., but not strictly com-
parable) to group earnings after
providing an unstated amount
for taxation. Tecnico, as parent
co., was able to add TV sales
to its existing share of the com-
petitive electrical appliance
market, and claimed a profit of
£104,571 for the term (a nine-
month period to March 31
last), to bring group earnings to
£113,725, compared with a
£50,770 loss in the preceding
term:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
i Dividends Re-
Jne., Profit. Pref. , Ord. v serves.*
7} & 5 p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £
’52.. 47,421 10,250 3£ = 23,625 131,587
Less subsidiary’s res., £2855 128,732
Special amortisation pro-
vision, £42,500 .. .. 86,232
’53.. 5,171 10,250 Nil 81,153
Tax overproyided, £5715 .. 86,868
’64.. 13,688 Nil Nil 100,556
Tax overprovided, £155 .. 100,711
Loss. Deficit.
’55..111,840 Nil Nil 11,129
Tax overprovided, £1294 .. 9,835
'56.. 50,770 Nil Nil 60,605
March,
Adjustment minority interest,
subsidiary, £14,223 .. 74,828
Profit. Reserves.
’s7f 113,725 Nil Nil 38,897
* Subject to intangibles, £78,643 at
31/3/’57. | Nine months only.
Group earnings came in at the
late of £151,633 p.a., or 21.4
p.c. on ord. capital, but there
was, of course, no need to
provide for taxation in the
Tecnico accounts, which still
include a p. and 1. debit of
£149,681.
Pye, Ltd., increased its
advances to the co. by £74,038
over the term, and the backing
of this organisation appears,
naturally enough, to have


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks.—Advt.
Invest in a well-established
MANUFACTURING COMPANY
FERRIS INDUSTRIES
LIMITED (Paid-up Capital £235,000 )
MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY
FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.
will be pleased to accept
Short Term Deposits
8%
per annum for Em YEARS
7%
6%
per annum for I Y E A R
1
O per annum for 6 M T H S
INTEREST PAYABLE i _ YEARLY
Additional working capital
is required to finance . the
.manufacture of Ferris Tele-
vision Receivers, Ferris Car
Radios, Channel Master
Television Aerials, acces-
sories and component parts.
For further details and form of application
’phone, write or send coupon
To Secretary, FERRIS INDUSTRIES Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Rd., Brookvale, XW 0221.
Please send me details of Short Term Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.148
improved the group’s credit-
rating, the amount due to
creditors leaping from £363,007
to £901,545 while an extra
£97,457 was borrowed from the
bank: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital—* 195 G. 1957.
Pref. .. •• £ 185,000 £185,000
Ord 650,500 650,500
Reserves .. 38,897
Outside interests 130,242 181,904
Loan .. .. 501000 124,038
Overdraft • • 489,094 586,551
Creditors .. 363,007 901,545
Tax provision .. 18,470 14,855
£1,886,313 £2,683,290
Land, buildings 224,824 233,176
Plant, etc. .. 356,971 336,389
Stock .. .. 862,662 1,351,807
Debtors •• 290,936 679,127
Cash .. .. 11,672 4,148
Intangibles .. 78,643 78,643
Deficit .. . % 60,605
£1,886,313 £2,683,290
The additional funds went into
stocks (up £489,145 or 56.7 p.c.)
and debtors (up 133.4 p.c.),
reflecting the increased tempo
of production and turnover.
The surplus of current assets
over current liabilities
increased by £237,432 to
£532,131, but with the increase
in liabilities the liquid position
remained tight.
Television-transmitters are at
present operating in only two
States, but extensions of
services to other States can be
expected within the next few
years. Meanwhile demand for
the co.’s TV-receivers is
reported, by the board, to
exceed supply—an enviable
position in a strongly competi-
tive market —and turnover may
benefit further from plans to
increase the range of products
turned out by the group. As
well as increasing the range of
electrical appliances, Bendix-
Tecnico has plans for the
manufacture of carburettors
for the local motor-vehicle
industry.
Pref. - shareholders can
reasonably expect a div. next
year (they were owed £38,438
at the close of last term), but
ord.-shareholders might have to
wait a little longer to enable
the co. to build up reserves.
The f.-p. £1 ords. (net
tangible cover 18s. 6d.) last
sold at 225.
Mt. Morgan, Ltd.
A DEPRESSED copper
market has, naturally,
affected the earnings of all
copper-producers, and, com-
bined with abnormally low
grades and the almost com-
plete lack of a market for
pyrites, has —for the present—
taken most of the profit out of
mining-operations at the Mt.
Morgan (Q.) opencut. Generally
aware of these factors, buyers
of scrip in Mt. Morgan, Ltd.,
have lowered their bids for
the co.’s f.-p, 10s. ords. from
255. to 13s. lOd. over the past
twelve months.
Shareholders were informed
at the last annual meeting
(November, 1956) that the co.
had encountered an area of
‘‘extremely low” values, and
subsequent production reports
confirmed this fact. No esti-
mate has been given of the time
required to work through the
area, and although the co. is
now well into the low-grade
ore it may be taking longer to
work than was originally
anticipated. Treatment of ore
won in previous years has
enabled the co. to show a “very
fair profit” for the term com-
pleted last June, but stocks of
concentrate are now exhausted,
and the output of copper and
gold is regulated by current
ore-production.
Higher production has there-
fore been sought in an attempt
to offset the decline in values,
but efforts have been hindered
by recent industrial disputes—
involving a go-slow strike-
causing the managing-director
(E. G. Boyd) to appeal to
employees for greater co-opera-
tion in an open letter to the
people of Mt. Morgan town-
ship. This co-operation has
apparently been forthcoming,
but, meanwhile, news of the
letter, in which it was stated,
that the mine may be forced to
close unless ore-production
reached 14,000 tons a week,
caused some reaction in the
sharemarket, as well as draw-
ing attention to the current
difficulties of Australian
copper-producers.
While any worth-while im-
provement in copper prices
seems unlikely in the immediate
future, a return to higher grades
will ease Mt. Morgan’s
problems, but the co. is still
faced with the need to dispose
of its pyrites to enable profit-
able treatment of marginal ore,
and is currently negotiating
with local and overseas interests
in an endeavor to establish
local industries with a demand
for the sulphur-bearing pyrites.
The mine’s ore-reserves contain
approximately 12,000,000 tons
of pyrites, of which about half
is “very valuable iron ore.”
Copper-producers are at
present awaiting the recom-
mendations of the Tariff Board
following a request from the
industry for some form of
assistance.
Arnett’s Emergence
[From Melbourne! *
/''VNE of the most significant
facts emerging from the
current bargaining for A.N.A.
is the decline of the great
pioneer aviation company
since Ivan Holyman died in
January this year ; it is a sharp
homily for a country which
has, outside the military field,
underemphasised the tremen-
dous advantages an enterprise
enjoys from courageous and
inspiring leadership.
Although both were suc-
cessful merchant-adventurers,
Reginald Ansett, despite his
achievements, remained the
minor of the two figures ; yet
even in'the short space of time
since Holyman’s death, Reg.
Ansett has been able to make
inroads into A.N.A.’s
business.
In Melbourne last week
Ansett was able to offer the
directors £3.3 million for
A.N.A.’s assets, proposing £1
million cash on the signing of
the contract, £l| million in
the first year and the balance
in the second. The offer was
rejected.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
P rice SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Legal. Notice
TO COLIN JOHN PATEN formerly of
St. George in the State of Queensland
and of “Cramsie” Longreach in the said
State and of 160 Abbotsleigh Road
Holland Park Brisbane in the said State
and now of unknown address, Stock
Dealer.—TAKE NOTICE that an action
has been commenced against you in the
Supreme Court of Queensland No. 483
of 1956 by KEITH WILLIAM O’TOOLE
of St. George aforesaid, Drover, in
which the Plaintiff’s claim is for a
declaration that New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Company Limited
Brisbane aforesaid is holding the sum
of One thousand pounds on behalf of
the partnership “Patrick Healy” and
for an. Order that the said New Zealand
Loan and Mercantile Agency Company
Limited do account for and pay the said
sum to the Plaintiff If you desire to
defend the said action you must within
fourteen clear days from the publication
of this advertisement enter an appear-
ance in the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane afore-
said In default of such appearance
judgment may be entered against you.
—A. R. COUTTS, Solicitor for the
Plaintiff, St. George. Town Agents:
ARCHER COUTTS & CO., Solicitors,
280 Queen Street, Brisbane.
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Australia
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
“TF you can’t break a racket,
join it,” is the sentiment
which unmistakably underlies
“Industry and Society,” the
Labor party’s policy on future
public ownership. The study-
group, comprising all shades of
Socialist conviction and pre-
sided over by Mr. Gaitskell,
does not, of course, allege that
private industry is a racket. (It
recognises, in fact, that “under
increasingly professional
managements, large firms are as
a whole serving the nation
well,” that “no organisation,
public or private, can operate
effectively when subjected to
persistent and detailed inter-
vention from above” and con-
siderately declares that it will
not interfere with “any firm
which is doing a good job.”)
The real question affronting
Socialists is: “What is private
industry but Capitalism ; and
what is Capitalism but a
racket?” We plumped for
Socialism at the end of the
war. It failed. We accepted
nationalisation. That failed,
too, and has become so un-
popular with the electorate that
it has to be wrapped-up in
such euphemisms as “social
ownership” and “the control
of social power.”
Meanwhile, Capitalism has
survived and, indeed, flourished.
A new elite industrial
directors, managers, techno-
crats —has risen to power and
privilege. Less affected by in-
flation than others of the
community, most of these men
have lived in a businessman’s
Elysium of prosperity, expan-
sion and personal advancement.
Meanwhile, the power of the
shareholder has declined (a
large shareholding being no
longer a prerequisite of
directorship) both as to the
companies’ indebtedness to
him and as a source of new
money; and the only share-
holders of real moment are the
institutions, acting as trustees
for pension funds and other
contractual savings.
That is to say, the “idle rich”
exist no more, having been
replaced by high-salaried pro-
fessionals more remarkable for
the wealth they induce, by
virtue of their firms’ earning-
power, than for their own
quick assets. Therefore the
doctrine: “From each accord-
ing to his wealth, to each
according to his needs,” is
much harder to apply.
Furthermore, the leader of the
Labor party has conditions to
bear in mind that have little
relevance to the good of the
community as a whole for
example, the prospect of
winning the next general elec-
tion ; the ever-cons tant
problem of reconciling fac-
tions as diverse as the intel-
lectual professional politician,
the sensitive trade - union
nominee and the suspicious
doctrinaire; and, most im-
portant, he can beat the Con-
servatives only by winning
votes from them.
So the present spate of cool
reasoning, logical argument
and, most significant, non-state-
ment of precise intention is
really nothing but propaganda
directed at two ends: to win-
over the votes of the Liberal-
Radicals and to keep the peace
by offering all sections, for
chewing over at the October
conference, a little of what they
fancy, namely “equality and
the distribution of wealth.”
For the most part, the recep-
tion is tongue-in-cheek and
suspect. Neither the board-
rooms of industry nor the City
are unduly ' perturbed. And
already the far Left, uneasy
about a shotgun marriage
between Socialism and Capi-
talism, continues its parrot-cry
that nothing less than all-out
dogma should be the objective
of a Labor Government.
Swiss Family Reunion
The paid claque, delegated to
spoil a first performance, is
happily no longer with us. But
there are in London a few
individuals of whom actors and
theatre-managers live in dread.
They are not hirelings, serving
an unprincipled rival, but
Gallery first-nighters who
arrogate to themselves the
authority to pronounce final
judgment on a new show. If
they disapprove, they boo
loudly. The boo is at all times a
childish weapon; it is also
cruel and cowardly, unsettling
the actors and leaving the rest
of the audience impotent to
remonstrate.
Those concerned with the
Bristol Old Vic production of
“Oh! My Papa!” (Garrick
Theatre) have particular cause
for anger, for the first-night
demonstration was manifestly
unfair as well as ill-mannered.
This operetta, described as “a
comedy to music,” is an
established favorite on the
Continent, was rapturously
applauded at its Bristol
premiere and its Brighton try-
out. It has cost a heap of
money (£40,000) and long
hours of delicate preparation,
only to be prejudiced by the
arrogant reaction of four or
six men to one scene.
The show is better than
average, and has, if anything,
an excess of good things:
color, sentiment, comic incident
and catchy music. But, un-
fortunately, it carries its 18
years rather heavily, like an
old joke. The Swiss authors
patently belong to the pre-
Hammerstein II age, when
musical comedies were a hotch-
potch of prolific but undiscip-
lined invention. Not only are
the dramatic values all awry
but the authors impose tech-
nical demands so impracticable
as to confound both casting
and performance.
Set in the ’nineties, the play
concerns a family reunion in
celebration of Herr Ober-
holzer’s sixtieth birthday. His
three brothers and their self-
righteous wives are comic but
respectable. Not so the fourth,
a black-sheep and renegade,
who bursts in, wearing his ring-
master’s uniform and parading
a scandalously demimondaine
wife. Anna, the daughter, is
infatuated by their three-ring
tinsel and threatens to run away
and join their circus. She
“dreams” that her family are
circus-performers (Daddy as
flippered seal, aunts as captive
tigresses) but finally recants,
plighting her troth with the
handsome young gardener. The
black-sheep and his curvaceous
Iduna realise they don’t belong
and slip away, to be joined
by the valetudinarian, hen-
pecked uncle. All come together
for the final joyous curtain,
a grand ensemble to the second
reprise of the well-known
theme-song.
At times the margin between
credible and incredible
absurdity is embarrassingly
narrow, but, thanks to Warren
Jenkins’s meticulous produc-
tion and the actors’ sincerity,
the result is a positive, if quali-
fied, success, but always
pleasant and wholesome. Laurie
Payne, set an impossible essay
in virtuosity, wins through by
his glorious voice, handsome
presence and undismayed
courage. It is ho fault of the
ingenue (Sonia Rees) that she
now seems as quaint as Little
Eva. Of the sorely tested but
hard-working cast, Rachel
Roberts’s fruity Iduna and the
five Bristol originals get nearest
to the essential pastiche.


THE FISH-SCALES
By COLIN THIELE
THE sea looked as if it
wanted you to walk on
it. Daybreak was setting
the swell with a crust
of light, hard and smooth, like
milky chalcedony. You
wanted to sit down on it and
slide over the undulations till
your pants were shiny, or
toboggan into the troughs
just for the fast, free shoot of it.
Tim and I sat on the engine-
hatch with our lines out, facing
east.
“Like a baker painting the
top of a bun,” he said.
“Some bun!”
He looked towards the hori-
zon for a bit. It was far off
across the rolling plain, fine
as onyx.
“Yeah.”
“Going to be some fishin’
day, too. Perfect! ”
“Perfect.” Tim pulled in his
line and the stone turned to
water for a second, herring-
boned with tiny ripples.
“Daybreak on a cutter out
at sea,” said Tim. “You’ve
got to see it, don’t you?”
“Yeah, when it’s like this.”
“All the jokers back at
Lincoln’ll still be snoring holes
in their pillows ; they probably
live half their lives within ten
miles of this, and never know.”
It was true. Port Lincoln
was over the horizon ; it was in
the next valley. The plain of
the sea flowed over the coast,
just as the tide of light flowed
over the sea. And with, it came
color, till the cutter stood up
in a pink smooth world,
exquisite as the underbelly of
a shell.
“Time to go below,” said
Tim. “Coming?”
“No. I’ll fish for a bit.”
“I’ll whack up the break-
fast, then, and see how poor
bloody Bill’s getting on; he
was crook as a squirting squid
Jast night.”
“Right, I’ll be down later.”
TN a way I was glad to be
left alone. The truth
that I hadn’t been doing too
well with the line lately and I
wanted to get in a few on the
quiet to build-up my tally. W 6
Were on snapper ground and
I knew that if they got on the
bite at daybreak I might run
up a few.
But I wasn’t ready, of course,
for what happened: Thud!
Like a punch to the jaw.
My head flew back and I
felt the rick in my neck. The
arm-bone stretched away from
the shoulder-blade an inch or
two but luckily my muscles
and tendons were pretty elastic;
they gave and then took up
again. I felt sure I’d hooked
a shark or a porpoise or may-
be a fifteen-hand sea-horse.
Twice he nearly had me over
the side when he made a run
for it. But I held him.
Gradually I worked him up
nearer the surface until I could
see his outline dimly through
the water.
Suffering catfish ; the shape
of him! He was five feet long!
King of all king-snapper,
with a hump on him like a
camel’s. In the end I had him
right up, just an inch or two
below the surface, cruising
around as quiet as you like.
But it unnerved me just to look
at him there —red and coral
pink and pearl, gleaming and
shining.
But there didn’t seem to be
any hope of getting him into
the boat. I couldn’t keep on
playing him like this for long,
and I didn’t want to yell to the
others in case I frightened him.
Anyway, there was nothing
they could have done to help,
and I had my pride to think
of. I wanted more than any-
thing to surprise them when
they came up ; you know the
sort of nonchalant modesty:
“Any luck?” —“Just middling ;
not a bad snapper over there
by the engine-hatch.” -
Finally I decided to risk
everything on the one pull to
draw him up over the side and
spill him on to the decking. As
long as the line held for the
first half of the heave when he
came up, I might do it, be-
cause if it broke then, he’d
probably keep coming and fall
into the boat anyway. That
was the way of it. So I
braced myself against the
winch-head and took a couple
of turns of the line around
my waist. Then I took a short
firm grip, paused for a deep
breath, and heaved. My
muscles cracked and my eyes
bulged fishily.
I didn’t know my own
strength. In that tremendous
pull he came straight up out
of the sea like a hunting barra-
cuda until there was only a
foot of him left in the water.
An in that instant he gave a
flick of his great tail like
Moby Dick, that hurled him
clean out of the sea —that, and
the pull I gave.
He shot up over my shoulder
in a high curve like a tuna
coming aboard, but the impulse
of my jerk and his own tail-
flip were stronger even than
the toss of a tuna pole; he
went up, up, over the cross-
tree of the mast, and then
down, leaving the line threaded
neatly over the arm.
AND so, before I could fore-
see it, whang, the slack was
all taken up and I was lifted
off my feet with a fling like a
pistol-shot.
There I dangled, exactly
balancing the fish, my feet
a yard above the deck, tread-
ing and kicking the empty air.
We were the perfect counter-
poise ; neither of us could
pull the other down. And I’m
twelve-stone. That’ll give you
some idea of his weight. I’ve
often seen my mother balanc-
ing things in the old kitchen-
scales by piling packets of tea
and knobs of blue in the left-
hand pan, but I didn’t think
that one day I’d be weighed
against a fish and that the
result would be left waggling
in the balance in the same way.
For the worst of it was that
we didn’t hang still. He kept
jiggling about, twisting and
turning, and I was scrabbling
my hardest, too. Naturally, I
was trying to weigh my side
down ; I didn’t want him haul-
ing me up towards the cross-
trees like a flag at half-mast,
So we got to swinging inwards
and out, towards one another
and away.
One minute I’d be trying
ineffectually to embrace his
slippery body and his big wet
eye would be staring right
into mine; and then we’d
swing apart like a couple of
contra-pendulums, squirming
and wheezing before we
slapped together again. Then
for a change we’d spin round
and round in a dizzy whirl,
plaiting up the line above us.
Face to face and back to
back we’d spin, his fins giving
me a few short jabs to the ribs,
and my elbows getting him a
jolt to the gills.
If you’ve ever been plaited-
up you know how helplessly
frustrated it leaves you;
wrapped-up like a mummy
swaddled in strip-bandages.
But to be plaited with a twelve-
stone fish! It presses your face
so hard into his that it’s like
waltzing with a bear-hugging
partner—you can’t converse
properly because you can’t
get your head back far enough
to see him objectively. At any
rate, that’s how it went with
us until we unplaited our-
selves and flew apart again.
Luckily I managed to slow
things down after a while by
clutching at the mast whenever
I shot past, until we finally
stopped spinning and just
swung backwards and forwards
like a pendulum in an old
grandfather-clock. Yet that's
when the crisis came.
/"\N the second or third
swing I could see by the
look on his face that he
thought he might still have the
better of me, and sure enough,
the next time we came towards
one another he twisted up his
powerful tail and fetched me
a whack in the stomach, way
below the belt, that took the
wind out of me with a wup.
And while I was dangling
limp as a gibbet-corpse
he took his mean advantage,
screwed himself right up till
he was nearly lying sideways
in the air, and gave me a slap
on the side of the head that
sent my false teeth skidding
into the engine-well.
I tell you it’s no joke to be
slapped in the face by a twelve-
stone snapper. It just about did
for me. Through the haze I
could see half-a-dozen five-
foot fish overlapping and
vibrating like a plucked harp-
string, and I knew that if he
fetched me one more clout
like that he’d take me and
finish up leaning against the
mast himself, playing me onr
the end of his line.
So I made the effort some-
how. I had to. Luckily we
missed each other altogether
the next time, and swung past,
hissing hate and looking back
vindictively at each other over
our shoulders. That gave me
a momentary breather and I
was half-prepared oh the next
swing. Two can play at that
game, I said, and just before
we met I brought up my right
thigh and kneed him neatly in
the belly. A good, shady foot-
baller’s groin-thrust.
It was his turn to go “wup!”
That put some heart and wind
back into me, and I was really
ready the next time with a
long punt-kick that caught him
in the paunch and sank in with
a saggy squelch.
“How’s that?” I said.
His eyes goggled glazily and
he blew out a lazy string of
(Continued on next page)


bubbles. I could see that I was
getting the upper hand. A
few more swings and he’d be
mine. Then, when he was
hanging limp, I’d cut the line,
we’d both drop to the deck,
and I’d be able to display my
catch as if nothing had
happened.
The pride before the fall!
Especially when you’re up a
mast with a fish. He had more
life in him than I’d bargained
for, because on the next
swing, just as I was lifting my
leg to give him the knock-out,
he caught his tail under my
feet and flicked me back in a
high wide arc like a squeezed
pip.
Far out over the side of the
boat I swung, and so did he.
Action and reaction! My
snapper-line was a good one,
but it wasn’t made for bow-
ing and sawing up in the
cross-trees. It had been fray-
ing slowly all the time, and
now on the very end of that
high outward swing it snapped,
and the two of us flew on in
a sort of sine-wave.
Same weight, same distance,
same speed—we hit the water
simultaneously. Down below
they would just have heard the
one splash.
Tf7HEN I came to the sur-
’ ’ face to cough, Tim was
leaning over the rail, the tears
of laughter running off him
like bow-spray.
“He’s thrown himself in,” he
yelled down to Bill; “I always
said he would.”
“I just hooked the biggest
snapper alive,” I yelled, “but
the bastard got away.”
Tim was whooping with
delight.
“He tied the line round his
waist and threw so hard that
he tossed himself in.”
I climbed aboard, sore and
dripping. “He got away,” I
panted; “a two - hundred
snapper; had him aboard,
had him right here, but he
got away.”
Tim looked at the bit of line
trailing after me, eyeing the
frayed end.
“ ’Strath, you must’ve given
yourself a heave, sport,” he
said, “to bust a line like that.”
“I tell you it was fish that
pulled me in,” I said; “and by
trickery at that. I was joined
to him by the middle.”
He raised one eyebrow.
“Hey!” he yelled. “Come up
here quick, Bill, and have a
gander at Bert’s bloody
umbilical cord.”
And so it was that I lost my
fish and my hooks, my sinkers
and half my line . . . Every-
thing in fact, except the shame
of my story as they told it.
That didn’t get away.
The Chef
By MILAN V. DEROC
STIRRING with a stick the
stew in the boiler, he was
nervously waiting for the
new chef to make his
regular tour of the kitchen.
Since that man had been in
charge he wasn’t himself any
more.
For heaven - knows - what
reason the new chef seemed
never to be contented with his
cooking. It wasn’t that he said
anything. The trouble was that
on inspecting the kitchen he
would silently walk around,
and then stop at the boiler.
Taking the stick he would
vigorously stir the unsightly
mess. Then he would return the
stick with no word of comment,
and self-importantly walk out.
At first, the cook didn’t take
any particular notice of it. But
the incident took place day
after day . . into his mind
crept the suspicion that the
chef disliked him.
Well, he wouldn’t give tup-
pence for the chef’s opinion,
but for his influence with those
who had authority to dismiss
him. And as his two-years
bond to the Immigration
Department wasn’t yet over,
this would most certainly mean
his being dispatched on some
pick-and-shovel work. What a
way to terminate one’s camp-
career! It would mean a
rude social drop; the high
status of the kitchen-personnel
had been established indis-
putably among the rest of the
camp-inmates.
By sheer bad luck, he had
no way of approaching the
chef, as he belonged to another
nationality. Before migration
to Australia the camps had been
organised in national groups.
But in this new country every-
thing seemed to be upside-
down, all nationalities mixed
together, the only means of
conversation between each
group being broken-English;
mainly, “0.K., yes?” and
“0.K., no?”
AS to the social superiority
of cooks, it was an after-
effect of human degradation
and hunger, hunger, hunger.
To the poorly-fed in the
war-time camps, the strongest
appeal of all was an idealised
past of imaginary sumptuous
feasts. The exasperation of
having lost such a past was
counteracted by a revitalising
eagerness to realise all of those
unattainable dreams:
“The day all this is over, I
5ha11....”
“And 1....”
Attention thus switched over
to a constructive future, the
talk about the past would
dwindle and everyone feel much
better.
Never yet was written the
recipe book that would do
justice to the ingenuity dis-
played by even the least likely
culinary experts. Somewhere
deep in one’s unconscious,
"I must say Foe found th ' Kelly crash-helmet effective."
“Click!” something would go
off, and there was this new
character. He who never cared
for tripe now was walking
around smelling everywhere
the seductive odors of this
grilled delicacy. He who had
heard, only, of mayonnaise,
now was savoring it with a
delicious fish and the finest
French white wine.
(Even if knowing nothing
about wine.) -
All this brought to the
surface not only their ingenuity,
but also their idiosyncrasies.
Those of feeble resistance
replaced tea-drinking by eating
and chewing it. They were
feeding themselves with
deliberately-slow movements in
bringing the precious spoon-
fuls to their mouths. Those
who were heavy tobacco-
addicts began exchanging their
meagre bread-rations for scarce
cigarettes. And a necessity
became fashion and hobby:
the saving of bread-crusts for a
special dish to be made on
Sundays. The saved crusts
would be boiled in the un-
washed canteen, and eaten hot.
Yet, there were also those
who really had once the means
to indulge in the products of
an art commonly held to be a
woman’s, but perfected by only
a few men of fame. These
people lost their ulcers, but
at such an undignified cost —
being hungry prisoners!
CJTIRRING that rich, still-
nameless stew in an Aus-
tralian immigration-camp and
restlessly waiting for the chef's
visit to be over, he recalled
how he went for the first time
to apply for a job in the
kitchen.
At that time, the wages being
a double daily ration, there


" Accelerated Priority”: 1954-57
ON August 31, 1954, our
application to build a
War Service home was,
for good and sufficient
reasons, granted “accelerated
priority.” At time of writing
the date is May, 1957, and our
home is still not completed.
The story of what happened
between those two dates is here
set down as straightforwardly
as I can manage.
Our decision to build a home
through the War Service
Homes Division under their
“ordinary building method”
was made for two main reasons:
1. The interest-rate was easy.
2. W.S.H.D. supervisors were,
we were told, exceedingly dili-
gent. We would be assured of
a really well-built home.
The preliminaries were,
perhaps, somewhat long-drawn-
out—we felt at times that the
acceleration principle could
have been more vigorously
applied, for our need was—and
still is—urgent.
On the other hand, in our
then tolerant mood we were
prepared patiently to make the
usual allowances one does for
a large and complex Govern-
ment department.
So we had a good laugh
together over the official, who,
in place of our specifications
folder, handed my wife a file
marked “Confidential —Not To
Be Removed From Office,”
later telephoning us in some
agitation for its return. And
when a kindly clerk advised me
to convey a certain document
personally to a department on
the next floor —“If you leave
it to normal office-channels it
won’t get through till next
week” —we laughed again.
We laughed a trifle sourly
when an important check-
survey was mislaid for a month
or more in the office and
when, obeying a departmental
instruction (Jan. 18, 1955) to
make written application for
approval “to erect boundary
fencing exclusive of the con-
tract,” I duly made written
application (Jan. 27), and duly
received (Feb. 22) a depart-
mental instruction to make
written application “for
approval to erect boundary
fencing exclusive of the con-
tract.” (The boundary-fence
was erected by my neighbor
and myself two summers ago:
the necessary approval has not
yet been received.)
What thinned our hearty
laughter down, first to wry
grins, then to gritting annoy-
ance, was the affair of the blue-
prints. These, originally drawn-
up by the admirable Small
Homes Service of the Mel-
bourne “Age,” had to be
revised no fewer than five times.
We would send one set in,
only to get it back a week or
two later, with a request for
further, often trifling, emenda-
tions.
Thirty-six blueprint repro-
ductions for one 13-square
cottage seemed somehow ex-
cessive. As an exasperated
“Age” draftsman pointed out,
any properly qualified archi-
tect should have made all
necessary corrections after a
single examination. Having
paid the W.S.H.D. a two-guinea
architect’s-perusal fee, we were
inclined to agree.
-In between blueprints we
followed the Division’s advice
and did our best to find a
By JOHN STEPHENS
builder interested in submitting
a tender for our house when
the time came.' The four
builders approached gave
differing estimates, but all were
in agreement on one point:
they were not interested in
submitting tenders under the
W.S.H.D. “ordinary building
method.” They could never
bid low enough.
“No matter how far I cut
my costs,” one man explained,
“I can’t get within £2OO or £3OO
of the successful tender.”
These men are reputable
builders, and the suggestion
cannot be altogether ignored
that there may be a tendency
on the part of W.S.H.D. to
accept unduly low tenders. The
inherent dangers of this became
more obvious later on.
In our own case, it is signi-
ficant that the tender of £3260
accepted by W.S.H.D. on our
behalf in May, 1956, was below
the Division’s own estimate.
But we were not told this im-
portant fact till 18 months later
—at the Director’s conference
in November, 1956.
In ignorance, therefore, and
still putting our trust in the
Division’s officers, we signed
security documents on May 30,
1955 ; at the same time paying
over the required balance of
£609 165., two-thirds of which
we had to raise through a
private loan.
This sum, together with £3OO
owing for road- and footpath-
construction, and the W.S.H.D.
loan of £2750, all added up to
a fairly heavy burden of debt.
We decided that with reason-
able economies we could just
manage to pull through. The
preliminaries had been weari-
somely protracted, but now we
could sit back and watch our
home take shape.
It must be stressed at this
point that under the W.S.H.D.
“ordinary building method” the
contract is between the Division
and the builder, all responsi-
bility being shared by them.
The applicant, during the build-
ing operations, has next to no
power to influence the course
of events one way or the other.
This suited us: while the
builder built and the W.S.H.D.
supervisor diligently super-
vised we were content to wait.
We had already become good
at waiting—we were to become
immeasurably better. The
builder, having set up a neat
regiment of redgum stumps,
left us to admire them for the
next three weeks, while he went
off somewhere else.
This off again, on again,
gone again sequence was to
characterise the whole of his
operations. Working mainly on
his own, he would putter along
gently for a few weeks, then
vanish. These absences varied
in duration from eight to
eleven weeks.
He was a quiet, amiable man,
apparently doing his best, so
we forbore to complain very
strongly. It did occur to us at
times that, given “accelerated
priority,” one might logically
expect the same principle of
acceleration to be applied to the
building-process itself —that if
the W.S.H.D. officials had “the
interests of the applicant”
genuinely at heart they would
do their best to keep the job
moving steadily forward. After
all, our original need remained
just as urgent: w'e were still
paying rent; building-costs and
furniture-storage charges were
mounting, not to mention
interest on progress payments
to the builder ticking over like
a taxi-meter week by week.
Our first doubts about the
thoroughness of the super-
vision being carried out were
aroused by the affair of the
cracked roof. Somehow two or
three cement roofing-sheets
directly above the toilet-block
became badly cracked. During
heavy rain, water streamed
through on to the hardwood
flooring. Weeks later, the
cracks still unrepaired, the
plaster and insulwool ceiling
was fitted, upon which a drip-
ping patch of dampness
appeared. Three rainy months
later the damp patch now
4ft. across—the builder plugged
the cracks.
Time drew on—lo months,
11 months. Piece by piece the
house took on a more satisfy-
ing shape. A sub-contracted
bricklayer came and went —a
rapid worker: chimney and
brick porch shot up almost
overnight. The builder began
a little interior painting.
Plumbers were expected daily.
We talked hopefully of moving
in by the spring.
Then, without warning, the
builder once again stopped
work. After a fortnight or so
we learned that he was in
ill-health—a week or two later
word drifted through that he
was in financial difficulties. On
August 29, 1956, nearly 15
months after he had started
building, the War Service
Homes Division cancelled his
contract.
At this point my wife, the
home she had so carefully
planned already becoming a
hateful, sleep-dispelling night-
mare, wrote a letter to the
•“Age.” It began with a caustic
review of the entire muddle, up
to that date, and ended with
the suggestion that the Govern-
ment would do well to close the
War Service Homes Division
and hand over its field of opera-
tions to the more efficient
supervision of the banks.
Her first letter to a news-
paper, it had impressive conse-
quences—the foremost being
the appearance on the follow-
ing day of an exceedingly
determined ex-R.A.A.F. man ;
he too had his story of
experiences under the
W.S.H.D. “ordinary building
method” —of a framework so
appallingly jerry-built that
later on, though only after
months of strenuous protest,
the entire structure had to be
o Continued on page 56)


Bring Dad's Shaving
up-to-date with a
Gillette
ONE-PIECE RAZOR SET
"»*r a ha „ DSOw
fRiSEHri r» e /
i
The gift for Dad that costs
so little yet gives him years /S
of effortless shaving! Bring him
. sJnta with time-saving,
after shaving ondyov lllove
to kiss that smooth cheek.
rue SMART 58 >
SET AT 29 f 6
Rim


Who Was Right About the Warburton Blacks ?
Starving or Fat?
SOME months ago con-
siderable publicity was
given to the report of a
Westralian Parliamentary
Select Committee led by W. L.
Grayden, M.L.A., on the plight
of aborigines on the War-
burton Reserve —described by
the committee as “deplorable
in the extreme” —and to a
counter - report by Rupert
Murdoch, of the Adelaide
“News,” claiming that the
people of the area had “never
enjoyed better conditions.”
Grayden, a former Federal
member for Swan now repre-
senting South Perth, in the
W.A. Assembly, has published
a book giving the facts behind
his committee’s report and
detailing the controversy it
aroused.
His title, Adam and Atoms,
Is an unfortunate one for two
reasons. It commits literary
trespass on territory staked by
Colin Simpson in his Adam
Grid Arrows series, and it con-
veys a suggestion that the
author is opposed to nuclear
tests in Central Australia, the
Communists and their allies
having already used a pre-
tended concern for the
aborigines to cover-up their
real reasons for agitating
against the tests.
Grayden is not opposed to
nuclear tests; he accepts the
desirability of them. But he
argues that as the necessity for
keeping the Maralinga Testing
Ground and other areas free
from natives has interfered
with the normal life of
natives on the Warburton
Reserve by denying them a
large slice of their tribal
hunting-grounds, there is a
responsibility on the Com-
monwealth to provide an
alternative way of life.
The select committee
appointed by the W.A. Parlia-
ment last October comprised,
in addition to Grayden as
chairman, two Labor members,
S. E. Lapham and J. J. Rhati-
gan; a Liberal and Country
League member, W. S. Bovell,
and a Country Democratic
League member, E. P. Old-
field. All were known to be
interested in native affairs;
Rhatigan, born in the Kimber-
leys, was brought up among
natives and was for seven years
an officer of the W.A. Native
Welfare Department.
Before leaving Perth the
committee examined officials
of the Department of Native
Welfare and formed the
opinion that the department
was “not prepared to accept
responsibility for the desert
natives in inland Westralia.
The financial resources of the
department, it is alleged, are
insufficient to provide ade-
quately for even the 23,000
aborigines estimated to be in
the settled areas.” It was the
apparent plan of the depart-
ment “to reduce its already
limited commitments on the
Warburton Reserve and trans-
fer —without the parents’ con-
sent where this is refused —
the children of school-age to
By
J. B. BLAIR
Cosmo Newbery Mission,
which is on the fringe of the
pastoral country 360 miles to
the west, near Laverton.”
Warburton Reserve
The Warburton Reserve is a
huge area extending from a
couple of hundred miles north-
east of Laverton eastward
to the South Australian
and Northern Territory borders.
The country consists of
alternating mulga scrub, sand-
dunes and spinifex flats —hot
and sunbaked in summer;
bitterly cold on winter nights.
There is no permanent surface-
water ; average annual rainfall
is sin.-Bin. There is no white
settlement except the mission
staff, a newly established
Commonwealth weather-
station (Giles) at Sladen
Waters, near the northern
boundary of the reserve, and
the Blackstone Range Mining
Camp, depot for a nickel-
mining company which has
prospecting-rights over a vast
area.
Apart from children at the
mission school and “indigent”
natives fed by the mission, all
aborigines in the area are in
tribal state, dependent for
their living on such game as
they can kill —kangaroos and
rabbits in good seasons;
dingoes, wild-cats, goannas,
lizards and snakes in bad—
and on seeds, wild fruits, roots
and grubs. Their water-supply
comes from rockholes and
soaks. The total number of
natives in the area is about
800-900, apparently the maxi-
mum number the country can
under normal conditions
sustain.
According to the Grayden
Report it was not sustaining
them when the committee went
there last year.
The natives lack even the basic
necessities of life. Malnutrition'
and blindness and disease, abortion
and infanticide and bums and other
injuries are commonplace. Game
is extremely rare on the reserve,
water supplies for drinking precari-
ous, and adequate medical attention
far beyond the' resources of the
Warburton Mission. Employment
opportunities for Mission-educated
children are hopelessly insufficient
and in the circumstances education
serves only to leave them more
poorly fitted for fending for them-
selves when thrown back on their
own resources at the completion of
that education. Immediate food and
medical aid are urgently necessary
foi these people and permanent
provision for . them a pressing
obligation on the State.
As a long-term solution, the
committee proposed the de-
velopment of water-resources
by sinking wells and by
improving the soakages for the
purpose of making it possible
for game to survive and
multiply and to enable the
natives to extend their scope for
food-gathering over the whole
area. Tt further proposed the
establishment of a small-scale
pastoral industry and fruit-
and vegetable-growing—“this
project to utilise only native
labor and to be under the
control of a practical person
with a knowledge of natives
and preferably with experience
of the area.”
The report was tabled in the
Westralian Parliament, and a
resolution was carried on
December 21 urging that the
recommendations should be
carried out “subject to finance
being made available for the
purpose by the Commonwealth
Government.” Publicity was
given to the report in the
eastern States newspapers, but
after a short period the W.A.
Commissioner for Native Wel-
fare was quoted as saying
the report was “grossly
exaggerated.” Grayden’s com-
ment on this is that the com-
missioners only firsthand ex-
perience of the area was a
one-day visit (by air) three
years earlier and that his
officers had visited the mission
only twice in seven years and
had never been beyond it to
other parts of the reserve.
The Murdoch Report
In January last a delegation
consisting of the W.A. Minister
for Native Welfare (J. J.
Brady) and Messrs. Lapham
and Grayden asked Supply
Minister Beale to consider pro-
viding money for implement-
ing the committee’s proposals
for water-development and a
pastoral scheme. It was at
this time that Rupert Murdoch,
proprietor of the Adelaide
“News” and Perth “Sunday
Times,” flew to the area and
sent back eyewitness reports
of conditions. He wrote:
No aborigines in the Central Aus-
tralian reserves are dying of thirst
or starvation —or disease. The
great nationwide concern over
these people has not been
necessary. After several days and
many hundreds of miles of travelling
over this most remote of all country,
and seeing at least two-thirds of its
inhabitants, 1 say that these fine
people have never enjoyed better con-
ditions... .The [Grayden] report
was not only hopelessly exagger-
ated, but the statements in it were
so careless in their handling of
facts that at some points the truth
aisappeared altogether.
In view of this last sentence
it is not surprising that in
Adam and Atoms Grayden
should set out to Answer
Murdoch paragraph by para-
graph. An example:
Murdoch: 1 believe there is some
incidence of trachoma, a type of
curable eye-disease, among the
natives, but 1 saw only two cases
of it.
Grayden [quoting the matron of
Warburton Mission]: We have 80
per cent, active trachoma among
home children or down at the
camp. The percentage in women
was about 75 p.c. and men 60 p.c.
We have a great number of women
who are blind in at least one eye
and the other eye is suffering from
trachoma. 1 find that it is almost
a battle to treat it. If you get some
cured they mix with the others and
are reinfected again.
As a part-explanation of
the differing reports of the two
expeditions, Grayden says that
at the time of Murdoch’s visit
the mission was in annual
recess, and the children, with
their parents and other natives,
were dispersed throughout the
reserve. As a result there were
very few natives at the mission.
There had also been recent
rain. (Murdoch spoke of an
abundance of water ; Grayden
had reported a dearth.)
These facts are verified by
a letter from the superintendent
(Continued on page 49)


Larges! Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World .
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
SYDNEY TURF CLUB will
hold the first weight-
for-age event of the season
next Saturday the six-
furlongs Canterbury Stakes.
In past years the A.J.C.’s
Warwick Stakes had been the
first w.-f.-a. affair of the new
term. Of the 12 entrants, the
New Zealand grey Zariba,
if he starts, will be closest
watched. Trained at Canter-
bury, he is reported forward
enough to give a good account
of himself first up.
• • • •
Grist to the mill! The
A.J.C.’s annual report reveals
that the club last financial year
paid £602,553 to the N.S.W.
Government in tax —a colossal
amount, and probably a record
for 32 race meetings. Various
components of the racing game
could have used a slice of that
six-figure sum. On the brighter
side, the club made a profit of
£14,882 ; a welcome change
from a loss of £11,363 in the
previous 12 months, and an
indication that racing is pull-
ing out of the doldrums.
Attendances and tote-turnover
at Randwick and Warwick
Farm showed increases. The
tote-turnover was £4,335,250;
while prizemoney (plus sweep-
stakes and added fees)
amounted to £317,394.
Main item of news brought
back from Singapore by Sydney
jockey Arthur Ward was that
clubs in the East take no
chances with doped horses.
Runners in the various races
—all horses are stabled on the
tracks—are swabbed immedi-
ately before it is time for them
to compete. When the “all
clear” is given the field line-up
is announced to the public and
tote-betting (all betting is on
the tote) begins. A positive
swab naturally causes the with-
drawal of the horse concerned
and a subsequent stewards’
investigation. Singapore officials
are, therefore, wise before the
event. A similar scheme, while
it may present difficulties, is
worth consideration here, for
the doping problem is still
proving a nasty headache for
most Australian race-clubs.
• •. • •
An impressive win in open
company at Rosehill points to
strong classic chances for the
good-looking Persian Book
(imp.) colt Prince Darius. He
is already being discussed as a
likely Derby and Cup hope—he
figures in the Melbourne Cup
on 7.6, weight for age. To
win the Rosehill Flying
Flandicap, Prince Darius had
to be hard ridden over the final
two furlongs by successful
apprentice R. Williams, whose
slb. allowance reduced
the colt’s weight to 7.3. The
flashy Prince beat the favorite
Prince Jambo (he had 9.3 on
his back) and consistent Heroic
Victory into the minor placings.
The colt has started in 12
races for five wins (four at
Randwick), and has been only
once out of a place. He is one
of the entrants for next week’s
Canterbury Stakes.
The critics ran the rule over
New!, Zealand three-year-old
“He'd like to apologise.”
Young Idealist as he paraded in
the Rosehill mounting-yard
prior to the Three-year-old
Handicap, easily won by My
Peter. It was agreed by many
eyeing the visitor —he was mak-
ing his first appearance on an
Australian course —that he
would be all the better for the
run; but a last-minute move
for the colt saw his price firm
from sevens to 9 to 2. With
the leaders until the field turned
for home, he faded to beat only
a few to the judge. A well-
grown three-year-old by
Sabaean (imp.), Young Idealist
had top form in New Zealand.
He’ll get a chance to live up
to it in the Hobartville Stakes,
in which, nevertheless, the
quality of his opponents will be
well up on the Rosehill field.
Golden Sherry, who filled
several minor places as a two-
year-old, quickly opened her
winning account as a three-
year-old in the Rosehill First
Parramatta Stakes. The filly
looks certain to go on to better
things, especially in events
against her own sex. She had
strong support for her first win,
and, with her pull in the
weights, finished on well to beat
the lightly-fancied Superbly and
Tugun. By Damnos (Fr.) from
Decanter, Golden Sherry is
raced by E. K. White, whose
good wins in a long association
with racing include the 1928
Sydney Cup with Winalot.
Decanter, dam of Golden
Sherry, is by Talking from
Glass Bowl by Air Balloon
(imp.).
• • • •
Former Newcastle appren-
tice Darryl Pritchard, who
resumed race-riding at Rose-
hill, piloted his first Sydney
winner when he brought Dipso
with a late run on the outside
of the field in the Second
Parramatta Stakes, to score
easily from Le Poilu . and
Putting. The 19-year-old lad
some weeks ago had his inden-
tures transferred from New-
castle mentor D. Frost to
Randwick trainer E. D. Law-
son, and he was having his first
ride for Lawson on Dipso.
Though Pritchard has won
upwards of 40 races, he can
still claim a 71b. allowance at
metropolitan fixtures. His fine
display at Rosehill seems bound
to bring him plenty of engage-
ments at city and provincial
fixtures.
The hors e s - for - courses
theory once again worked out
when Redbank cleverly won
the Rosehill Welter Handicap.
However, those who had sup-
ported him when he failed at
Randwick five days earlier
didn’t take long to line the
wire-fence near the dismount-
ing yard and voice their
opinion about the form
improvement. But Redbank has
now won seven races at Rose-
hill, his only other Sydney win
being at Warwick Farm.
• •!/ [•] •
Randwick trainer Harry
Darwon paid 450gns. for the
Achilles colt Grecian Lustre,
who won a double at the first
two Randwick meetings of the
new season. Glisten, dam of
the three-year-old, is a sister
to Silver Rocks, who won in
the best company on Mel-
bourne tracks a few seasons
ago. Glisten was got by
Brueghel (It.) from Silver
Sequin by Silvius (imp.).
Achilles is getting a number of
winners now, and his oldest
progeny have just entered their
fourth year. A handsome
individual as a racehorse, he
won in top company, including*
among his wins the All Aged
Stakes and the Epsom.
• •; •
Brisbane trainer Jim
Griffiths won the main double,
the Ascot Handicap and the
J. H. S. Barnes Stakes, on the
opening day of the Q.T.C.
Exhibition meeting. A horse
with a tongue-testing monicker,
Ngaruawahia, followed his win
in the Albion Park Two
Thousand by winning the Ascot
Handicap in good style from
The Corsican and Ma Reine.
The winner is a five-year-old
entire by Emperor (imp.) from
Alice in Wonderland; he was
formerly raced in the north-
western part of N.S.W.
Griffiths won the Barnes
Stakes with Sydney Cup winner
Electro, who had two
opponents —outsider Roudell,


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO NORMA JANE GOLDSMITH late
of Open Hearth Hotel, Warrawong.—
TAKE NOTICE that MERVYN GOLD-
SMITH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2676 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion "without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
18th October 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. CLAYTON, UTZ & COMPANY,
Solicitors, of 136 Liverpool Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
second, and the Melbourne colt
Hot Spell.
For a small outlay a punter
at the Beimont Park (Perth)
meeting last Saturday won a
jackpot prize of £20,000, being
the only backer to have chosen
the last five winners. Before
racing began at Belmont the
kitty stood at £13,153 ; it rose
sharply to be about £20,000
when Alan Parker, a butcher,
collected Australia’s first jack-
pot-tote. The jackpot-tote,
which has boosted attendances
at Perth tracks, is due soon for
Sydney courses.
• • • •
To a reception usually
reserved for Cup winners,
Pedro’s Pride rounded off a
remarkable season by winning
last Saturday’s Australian
Steeple at Caulfield in a
common canter. As he dis-
mounted, Brian Smith, whose
winning ride on the mare was
his fifth Australian Steeple
success, groped for words to
describe her. He told press-
men she was the greatest jumper
he had ridden, adding, “and
I’ve ridden some good ones.”
Pedro’s Pride has won six
of her seven steeple starts this
season, and in none of them
has she felt the whip nor been
forced to do her best. Although
she carried 12.6 and conceded
from 251 b. to 481 b. to the
opposition, she won by eight
lengths and could have tripled
that margin had Smith ridden
her out. She is a most placid
creature, taking up whatever
position in the field her jockey
prefers and responding effort-
lessly to every request made of
her. She is not handsome, but
well-muscled, with powerful
hindquarters. It will be a long
time before we see her like
again. Saturday’s success took
her stake earnings to £11,382
—all but £7 of it earned in
steeplechases.
•-•- • •
The aged Solar Bear gelding
Eager Son is a better galloper
than his record indicates. He
suffers from hooves described
by trainer Frank Manning as
“as soft as tissue paper.” After
an abnormally dry season he
at last found a track to his
liking when heavy overnight
rain produced real winter going
at Caulfield. In the two-miles
Malakoff Stakes Eager Son
maintained a handy position
throughout, and in the run
along the straight drew right
away from his tiring opponents.
Over the years Manning seems
to have specialised in wet-
weather gallopers. He prepared
Colonus, who won the 1942
Melbourne Cup in swamp con-
ditions and dual Moonee
Valley Cup winner Valcurl,
who also liked the sting out
of the ground.
Although the St. Aubin
Handicap at Caulfield was a
six-furlongs event the field
included several runners begin-
ning their preparation for the
important spring handicaps.
The race went to the 25-to-l
chance Hellespride, whose
forward showing apparently
surprised trainer Tony Lopes.
Hellespride was a first-class
three-year-old, winning three
times and running second
three times from six starts
before he was sent for a spell.
Fighting Force, fourth in
last year’s Melbourne Cup and
winner of the Williamstown
Cup, found the distance too
short, but his strong finish on
the heels of the placegetters
indicated another successful
season. Sir William, Queen’s
Cup winner in the autumn, ran
Hellespride to a neck, and he,
too, will appreciate a longer
journey. That also applies to
Bendrum, who found the pace
too hot. In the spring Bendrum
was Australia’s best filly,
winning six, races straight, in-
cluding the Edward Manifold
Stakes and the One Thousand
Guineas. With 8.4, she is one
to bear in mind for the Caul-
field Cup.
• • • • •
Racegoers at Caulfield were
disappointed when trainer
“Bon” Hoysted, who is looking
after Caulfield Cup favorite
Syntax, decided that it would
be too severe a task for that
horse to carry 9.12 on the very
heavy track. Syntax will now
make his debut for this season
in the J. J. Liston Stakes, first
w.-f.-a. event of the Melbourne
season, to be run at Flemington
on August 24.
• • • •
After an unsuccessful two-
year-old season, the Sun Storm
colt Saranover broke through
for a win in the mile Chats-
worth Plate at Caulfield. An
odd feature of his success was
that he carried number 22
saddlecloth, the first time for
seven years a horse had been
successful with that-number on
a Victorian metropolitan track ;
the number had run-up a
sequence of 317 losers.
Coleraine quarry owner
G. F. Riordan, who races
Saranover, has entered the colt
for the Derby, believing that
staying is his game. Second
horse in the Chatsworth,
Bandolero, impressed with a
strong finish ; he should pick
up a race shortly.
• • • •
It is a fair indication of the
shortage of senior jockeys in
Melbourne that seven of the
11 flat winners in the current
season have been ridden by
apprentice lads. And that
follows last year’s pattern,
when half of the top 10 riders
were still serving their inden-
tures.
Next Saturday will see the
first two-year-old race of the
season decided at the Victoria
Park (S.A.) track, setting for
the Fulham Park Plate for
colts. Victorian trainers with
charges well advanced usually
give good support to this race,
but this year Victoria’s only
representative will be the N.Z.-
bred Cherubino, a colt by
Resurgent out of Maktoub.
Flemington trainer A. H.
Lawson has charge of the colt.
“Bicky”; Roy Shaw, who
headed the Victorian trainers’
list for the first time in the
racing season just ended, is one
man who has mixed gallopers
and harness-racing success-
fully. When the night-trotting
boom came to Melbourne just
after World War II Shaw, a
well - established trainer of
gallopers, surrendered his
licence to become a top trainer
and driver of pacers and trotters
—he headed the trainers’ list
one season. Returning to
gallopers, he was soon amongst
the winners. But for inter-
ference at a critical stage of
the race he might have landed
first place, instead of fourth,
in the 1956 Melbourne Cup—
with Fighting Force.
* * *
Next Saturday night Harold
Park trotting, after a 10-weeks’
hibernation, commences its new
season. Gymkhanas and pro-
vincials have kept rusty edges
to a minimum, and the meet-
ing, on a freshly top-dressed
track, should be a good one.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
round-up: In
Melbourne, in the rain, Aus-
tralia defeated Hong Kong in
the third Soccer Test 2-1, to win
the series Former Olympian
Russell Mockridge followed up his
winning of the Australian road-
cycling title by winning the 700-mile
“Mercury” tour of Tasmania; King
of the Mountains was the Italian
Girramondo, who won all six sprints.
....Marathon - runner Bryce
Mackay, to celebrate the 50th anni-
versary of Botany Harriers, ran 50
miles (Botany to Wollongong,
N.S.W.) in the really fast time of
shrs. 36min Up - and - coming
athletic star Jim McCann, of St.
Joseph’s (Sydney), won eight of the
16 open events at the school’s meet-
ing.... In Oslo, the American
Olympian Culbreath set a world
440yds. hurdles record (50.55ec.)....
In Ulster (Ireland), Australian Keith.
Campbell won the motorbike Grand
Prix, with another Australian, K.
Bryan, second.... Melbourne rac-
ing-car driver Stan Jones, in a
Maserati, won the 1957 Lowood
(Q.) trophy-race Belgium came
from behind to win the Davis Cup
European-zone from Italy, after
earlier, in a semi-final, similarly
coming from behind to defeat
Britain; Belgium now meets the
winner of U.S.A.-V.-Philippines....
At Richmond (N.S.W.), at Rugby
Union, Hawkesbury Agricultural
College beat Duntroon 17-6 in their
return fixture; College had also won
the first fixture, 20-5, at Duntroon
earlier in the season.
• * * *
The third-last home-and-
home round of the V.F.L. was
played in the mud and rain.
“The four” remains the same,
except for a reshuffle in posi-
tion ; Carlton slips to fourth
on percentages. Richmond
revived its final-four hopes by
a good win at home over the
Blues, thrashed in their second
successive game. Fitzroy
followed up its defeat of Rich-
mond by beating Collingwood
by one point in a close, exciting
game, 8.14-8.13. ’Wood was
counting on a win at Fitzroy,
and its loss means that it now
really has the job ahead of
it to reach the finals. Haw-
thorn, still in winning vein,
had the best win of the day
over Geelong, 14.9-8.7. Mel-
bourne, though its forwards
were again somewhat lacking,
downed St. Kilda 6.13-1.5.
Essendon, also back to a
winning trot, hustled South
10.15-7.13. North beat un-
happy Footscray 8.13-6.6.
• • .•!' •
“R.A.C.”: Saturday, July
27, 1957, will go down in the
records at Fremantle as “Black
Saturday.” East Fremantle,
winner of most premierships
in W.A. League history, went
down by 88 points to Clare-
mont. And South Fremantle,
winner of six post-war flags—
and conqueror of Collingwood,
Footscray and Carlton —went
under to West Perth by 87
points.
“Kejokada”: V.F.L. field-
umpire Schwab, whose free-
kick to Melbourne full-forward
Webb set-off the riot at the


Fcui/i in the
Future
h
The mineral developments in North Queens-
land have awakened Australia to what is held in
wealth in the outer regions of this continent.
Naturally, eyes turn to the focal points of
interest in Mount Isa, Mary Kathleen uranium field
and the big bauxite find in Cape York Peninsula.
These are wealth-winners on a grand scale, and
they will be contributing to the annual exports
worth £ 100-million, which, it has been officially
estimated, North Queensland’s mineral resources
alone can be earning for Australia within 15 to
20 years. ,
But the sweeps of discovery go broader and
deeper. Geologists, drillers and mining engineers
are working through the whole of northern Australia
in quest of new deposits—and are finding them.
At Borroloola, high in the Northern Territory
and close to the Carpentaria coast, Mount Isa Mines
have come upon another rich formation of lead.
The same company has hit upon uranium in border
country in the region of Lawn Hill. It is engaged
in exploration for uranium through an enormous
area of Queensland and the Northern Territory.
This is indicative of the great mineral drive
being made by various interests, in which the
known- limits of ore bodies and reserves are being
constantly expanded.
Does it require much foresight to see what is
forming up there? Towns are going to rise in
centres of established wealth; energy will be
supplied —in some places probably by atomic
power-stations; chemical plants will be built,
related industries will be attracted.
But first —and this is something to which I
think Australia should be giving national attention
now—systems of access and transport must be
provided to get the minerals out as cheaply and
efficiently as possible.
Rail, road, sea, air—all, I believe, will have
to be employed in the light of location and cost.
The treasure is there for the unlocking. And
effective transport is the key.
////asf^z
end of the Demons’ game with
Essendon, has umpired seven
very close games this year. In
two of them (including Mel-
bourne v. Essendon) only one
point has separated the teams ;
in another two, two points ; in
one, three points ; in another,
four points; and in yet
another, six points. Schwab’s
decision at Windy Hill has
been described as one of the
“most courageous” ever made
in the V.F.L.
“K.R.”: In B. 10/7/’57 I
questioned the wisdom of the
British Rugby Union’s
reputedly being “strongly
against attempts to make
Union a world game.” This
parochial attitude is in line with
the feeling against inter-State
football-games in Melbourne
and Sydney mentioned by
“Veryl” (B. 31/7/’57), Both
attitudes are wrong. Inter-State
and (above them, if possible)
international games should
represent the cream of sport ;
but, of course, often they don’t.
In inter-State football this is
usually due to a great discre-
pancy of standards between the
contesting States. Queensland,
for instance, is rarely a match
for N.S.W. at either Rugby
League or Rugby Union, while
in the national code S.A. and
W.A. can seldom make a game
of it with Victoria.
“Keroz”; There are two
Peter Boxes in Australian
sport. One is star Footscray
(V.F.L.) centreman or centre-
half-forward, and winner last
year of the coveted Brownlow
Medal. The other Peter Box
plays baseball; he’s S.A.’s
pitcher—a southpaw at that.
Last year he was picked in the
Australian team which played
a visiting American side during
the Olympic Games, and this
year was* chosen in the Aus-
tralian team as second-base.
* * *
With an even stronger dash
of the potent football that
pinned the ears of St. George
the week before, Easts dished
Newtown and their semi-final
chances in last Saturday’s Sydney
Rugby League match-of-the-day,
31-12. A young team, inspired by
former star Dave Brown (coach) oil
the field and skipper Tony Paskins
on, Easts this half of the comp,
have recorded six wins in seven
runs—their only defeat by Souths,
with the aid of a penalty-kick after
the bell. In other matches St.
George, though down at lemons and
scoring only two tries to three,
beat Canterbury 18-9, and are
assured of the minor-premiership.
Souths went to Parramatta, and
had a picnic, 48-12. Manly went to
Pratten Park, Wests’ home ground,
and, in a tough match, got the
verdict 12-7. Balmain, on the other
hand, journeyed to North Sydney
*nd got a cool reception: they "went
down 24-17. The win was North's
hrst in six matches; the loss, the
Tigers’ fourth in four weeks. With
two rounds remaining before the
semis, the comp, is now an algebraic
equation: if A beats B and B beats
C and D is constant ... St. George,
with 26 points up, sets the pace;
Manly, on 21, is safe; Souths, on
20 and with an easy match next
week, look set for a run in the
four. From there it’s Easts (18),
Wests (17), Newtown (16) and
Balmain (16), for a final place.
Wests, with the easy matches —
Parramatta and Canterbury; Easts
with the form.
* * *
In a cutthroat game in
Sydney’s Rugby Union which
ended University’s chance's,
Randwick, scoring five tries to
one, “failed” the Students 18-14.
With a strong wind behind it,
’Varsity led 11-3 at half-time, six
of the points coming from two long
drop-kick penalties by Test centre
Saxon White; but at least one
certain try was “bombed” when,
with almost the whole Uni. back-
line in close attendance and with the
defence beaten, the winger who went
over dropped and lost the ball. As
well, ’Wick could have been with-
out its three points at half-time,
which had come from a penalty-goal
which had had to be O.tC.’d by the
ref., the touch-judges disagreeing
or it. The Greens controlled the
second half, but their great weak-
ness this season —lack of a goal-
kicker —-meant that it was well into
the half before they got in front,
and then it was only just. In
another important game St. George
beat East 8-0, about the only high-
light an 80yd. run by international
winger Eddie Stapleton to score in
the corner. Even though East may
be beaten by Gordon this Saturday,
it should still hold its place (per-
haps on percentages only) for the
finals. In other games last Saturday
Gordon spanked Parramatta 26-3,
and Drummoyne operated likewise
on Manly 18-3, while Eastwood
barely beat North 6-5.
“Stig”: The Stenmarks, a
Sydney family, have made a
name for themselves in three
sports. Young Tony Stenmark,
of Bankstown and Campsie
Bowling Clubs, played with
N.S.W. Colts against Queens-
land Colts recently. His father,
Ossie Stenma k, was originally
a cricketer—he captained the
Cumberland Club —but is now
a leading bowler. The two
were runners-up recently in a
father-and-son trophy compe-
tition run by Marrickville
Bowling Club. A second son,
Jim, toured the world with the
Wallabies Rugby Union team
in 1947.
* * *
Peter Loader’s hat-trick for
England in the fourth Test
against West Indies was the
first in Tests since England
spinner Tom Goddard did it
against South Africa in Johan-
nesburg in 1938-39. The last
hat-trick in England-Australia
Tests was by Hughie Trumble
in England’s second innings in
fifth Test of 1903-04. Trumble’s
figures were 7-28 in what was
his last Test appearance -
surely the most triumphal exit
in cricket.


COLONY/
appearing soon, a massive
three colour literary
quarterly devoted to un-
bridled individuality . . .
convened by a committee of
writers who have always
refused to wait for editorial
approval.
We print everything . . .
everything and anything . . .
you pay US . but not
much, and you get right into
print in good company,
whereafter, if you have it,
you get paid, conceivably
even by us !
COLONY
is published from tht
Colony Farm, is dedicated
to the utmost in liberality
and supported by some of
the most urgent artists in
the country.
Send all copy to:
'COLONY:
Box 3098,
G.P.0., SYDNEY
Divorce Notice
J.N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM HARDMAN late of
Helensburgh.—T A K E NOTICE THAT
BARBARA MARY HARDMAN lias tiled
a Petition for Divorce No. 2620 of
1907 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter au appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by- the 18th day of
October 19,17 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLTS A CO., Soli-
citors, of 18-20 Martin Place, Sydney.—
J. DOUGH AN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want*
To buy copies of the following:
Bentham and Mueller’s Flora Aus-
tialiensis (London, 1863-78; 7
voJs.); C. H. Bertie’s The Story of
Sydney (1933 or 1938) and Stories of
Old Sydney (1912); Blaxland’s
Journal of a tour of the Blue
Mountains in the year 1813 (reprint
Edinburgh, 1893, and Sydney,
1913); Boldrewood's A Romance of
Corvas Tim and The Sphinx of
Eaglehawk. —6s64.
To buy copies of the following:
Maoris and Fiordland (Dunedin,
1949), by H. Beattie; The Call of
the South, by L. Becke; Belcher’s
Birds of the District of Geelong;
Guaranteed Brices in Operation
(Melbourne, 1939); Christison of
Lammermoor, by M. M. Bennett;
Bentham and Hooker’s Genera
Plantarum (3 vols.; 1862-1883). —
6565.
To buy copy of Li Hung Chang’s
Scrap Book, D'y Sir Hiram Maxim;
pub. Watts Watts apd Co., London.
—6566.
Information Sought
What information is there avail-
able on the Industries Fair proposed
for Melbourne next year?
The president of the Victorian
Chamber of Manufactures, Daniel
Scoit, has announced that the
chamber is organising Australia's
iargest-ever Industries Fair to be
held at the Melbourne Exhibition
Buildings from February 27 to
March 22, 1958, which is during the
Melbourne Moomba Festival. The
lair will be managed by Noel
Curphey, general-manager of the
chamber, who has made an exten-
sive study of overseas fairs and who
so successfully managed the First
Australian Industries Fair. C. B.
Swyer has again been appointed
organiser of the fair. The
Chamber of Manufactures is not
only staging the exhibition for the
purpose of showing Australians the
progress of their manufactures, but
is also devoting considerable time
and effort to publicising the fair
abroad, with a view to development
of export-trade and the attraction
of overseas capital. A special drive
will be made to bring overseas buy-
ing-missions to the fair. Arrange-
ments have now been completed for
“Chicken!”
the distribution of 2500 soecial
posters to be displayed at Govern-
ment posts, tourist-bureaux, trade-
fairs, commercial organisations and
banks throughout the world; these
are to be followed by 30,000 special
printed folders, and these by invita-
tions addressed to banks, traders
and commercial organisations, invit-
ing them to visit Australia to
investigate trade and investment
opportunities. Owing to the demand
for space, the chamber has booked
the new basketball-stadium, which
is adjacent to the Exhibition Build-
ings, and has also reserved special
outside areas for displays of heavy
equipment. The committee
appointed by the chamber to
organise the fair consists of the
president (Daniel Scott), F. S. Vine,
C.M.G., L. S. Gough, E. J. Fairnie,
C.8.E., H. H. Trinnick, A. N.
Curnhey and C. B. Swyer. Any
further information may be obtained
fiom the Genera) Manager, Aus-
tralian Industries Fair, 312 Flinders-
sireet, Melbourne.
,** * *
A few aboriginal-name sugges-
tions for roads that I propose to
push through (for purposes of sub-
dividing into building-blocks ) land
that is in some places timbered
with bushy peppermints, contains a
few lakes, some ocean-views, sand-
hills, and, in one place, a limestone
ridge, and has as a general back-
ground hills that contain caves?
Some of the following may be
useful: Bangalla or Bangalow, a
low hill; Bibbenluke, a big look-
out; Boodarra, water in. caves;
Boondi, water over rocks; Calle-
mondah, plenty of hills; Cobbadah,
place on a hill; Coolamatong, water
near a hill; Canowie, a stony water-
hole ; Coryule, hill by the sea; Drik-
Drik, limestone; Dunoon, ridge;
llbalunga, cave; illawarra, high
place near the sea; lluka, near the
sea; Kanangra, beautiful view;
killawarra, scrub; Moorilla, pebbly
ridge; Nanda, lake; Pindari, high
ground ; P a r n d a , limestone ;
Parachilna, place of peppermint-
gums; Wita, peppermint-gum tree;
Woorebah, peppermint - timber;
Wallanbeen, stony hill; Wanda,
beach sandhills; Worn bey an, caves
m th; hills; Yurara, extensive east
view; Yuraga, extensive view.
* * *
Is it known who was the first
convict emancipated in Australia ?
John Irving, who was sentenced to
transportation in 1785 and arrived
with the First Fleet. His conduct
here was exemplary, and Governor
Phillip emancipated him on Feb. 21,
1790. In a dispatch to Lord Gren-
ville (July, 1790), Phillip wrote mat
Irving, “a convict, who was
emancipated for his meritorious
behavior, has been sent to Norfolk
Island to act under the surgeon.
This man was bred to surgery, and
will, I hope, be thought to merit the
moiety of an assistant surgeon's
appointment.” Irving's stay on
Norfolk Island was short, and he
settled at Parramatta, being one of
the first to get a grant of land
there (30 acres, Feb. 22, 179'’) He
died on Sept. 5, 1795.
* * * *
I have two peach-trees bearing
t ery large fruit. Because of rain
and mist, 1 find spraying a problem.
Ii has been suggested that l cover
each peach with a transparent
cellulose material tied around the
stem to ensure that it is fly proof.
Is this a good idea?
(From Arthur Yates and Co. Pty.,
Ltd.) If you do this, the fruit will
sweat and rot, for no ak will be
?.ble to get to it through the cellulose
material—though, perhaps, the
material could be pin-pricked.
However, if the trees are not large
and it is practicable, wrap around
each tree an old mosquito-net; tie
it around the trunk and make certain
that it does not rest on the
f uit, otherwise the fruit-fly could
make its sting through the net. It
would, as well, be necessary to spray
with arsenate-of-lead for codlin-
moth, and an application of fruit-
fly spray on the net would be
helpful in attacking the } uit-fly.
The following—a quid -acting
foliage-poison bait —may also prove
handy: 1 teaspoonful nicotine-
sulphate (Blackleaf 40), 2 teaspoon-
fuls D.D. f. emulsion (20 p.c.), 4oz.
sugar, 4 pints water.
# * *
What was the story of the Chesney
minders in Britain a year or two
aao ?
John Donald Merrett, adventurer
and btacKmai Keteer, stood trial for
murdering his mother when he was
lb ; lie was acquitted because of con-
flicting evidence, but it was proved
t he had been using her cheques
r i raudulently. Soon afterwards he
changed his name to Ronald John
Chesney, and at 21 was led a fortune
by his grandiather. lie nougat
a yacht for gun-running and dope-
smuggling in the Mediterranean,
and, living right" royally, made and
lost seveial ior,unes. Soon after
the start of World War II he
jo.ned the British Navy, and served
in the Mediterranean, including the
evacuation of Tobruk. Alter the
war he went to Germany, and
incvlged in more blacKmaikeiing;
put, in,o financial difficulties,
he murdered his wife and mother-
in-iaw (June, 1953) for his wife’s,
money. He suicided when found
out. His story is told in Tom
i uiictt 's how ait of a Bud Man.
Information Suppled
In response to the “Service Page”
inquiry on the variation of the
Roman numerals IV and 1111 on
clock-dials. P. O. Flecker (Mareeba,
(.>.1 submits the following explana-
tion.
nme-keeping became accurate in
the latier half of the 17th century.
The long-case or grandfather-clock
became standard and made its
appearance in many English homes.
Striking was an essential part of the
domestic dock, owing to the scarcity
of light.
Clocks appeared which would run
for one, in, e, six or even twelve
months on the one winding; and the
weight necessary to strike a gong
156 times daily (for the hours alone)
for these extended periods became
a problem in design.
A system of "Roman striking”
was therefore introduced, where two
bells were used; a small one corres-
ponding with the Roman numeral


NOTHING EQUALS
gS Warmray's Amazing Efficiency H
Vi atm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
>s
m
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
JL Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
■fa Special large
firebox for long
burning without
- attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray'*
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Mode! No. 2A
X Heats oy • r 5,000
n cu. ft.
X Modern artistic
cream porcelain
, enamel on solid cast
iron.
XNo dirty fireplaces
to clean.
Pull view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
4r No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
SS.^Ssfsss
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tubes (Illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
4. BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams; “Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
I and a larger one for the V —two
strokes on the larger bell represent-
ing X. By this means the daily
number of strokes was reduced to
62. Later, this was reduced to 58,
by representing four as IV, rather
than 1111, and the dial-figuring was
altered accordingly.
Thus the change came about as
a by-product of the striking-gear,
in an attempt to lessen the driving-
weight.
I must point out that 1111 is the
form used by the Romans, and IV
the modern variationthe original
form persists in many* clock-faces,
and appears to be found only on
clocks. The IV has spread from
horological to almost universal
use.
Charles H. Regelsen (34 Wilkins
Street, Newport, Vic.) disagrees:
A special clock was being made for
a king who desired Roman numerals
on the dial. When it came to the
figure four, the clockmaker said it
was IV; the king, 1111 “I am
never wrong!” The clockmaker,
naturally enough, let the king have
his way, and the III! is a standing
monument to a king’s foolishness.
Does Anybody Know?
In one of his stories Henry
Lawson spoke of a character being
“stronger than Donald Dinnie.”
Who was Donald Dinnie?
Brief Answers
K.R.: (1) Patrick White, author
of The Tree of Man, lives at Castle
Hill (N.S.W.). (2) His latest novel,
Tom, has just been chosen by the
Book of the Month Club as its
August selection... .L.W.: Shark
Bay (W.A.) was named by Dampier
in 1688 R.R.: (1) Lieut. James
Grant arrived in Australia in 1800
in command of the brig Lady Nelson,
to explore and survey the coastline.
Sighting the Australian coast near
the present S.A.-Victoria boundary
on Dec. 3, 1800, he sailed eastward
along the coast through Bass Strait
—the first vessel to pass eastward
through the strait. He sailed across
Port Phillip without noticing it.
Governor King ordered him to
survey Westernport Bay, but Grant’s
general incapacity as a marine sur-
veyor soon became evident, and he
resigned, Matthew Flinders carrying
on his work. (2) Yes, it was this
Lieut. Grant who, on his way back
to England (1801-02), lost some
dispatches entrusted to him by
Governor King relating to the.
arrest of John Macarthur and
Captain William Paterson-.... Det:
No information available. There
almost certainly would have been
members of the faith among the
white community of pre-Communist
China; some may still be there.
Doubt very much, however, that
there would have been any inter-
marriage Elsetta: (1) In 1899 a
high-level bridge was opened over
the Burdekin River (Q.), The
Ayr-Home Hill railway-bridge over
the Burdekin was opened in Sept.,
1913. A new bridge over the
Burdekin was officially opened on
June 15 this year. (2) See a small
pamphlet by H. A. Borland, “One
Hundred Years, North Queensland
Events and Dates” (1945) or Pugh’s
Official Almanac for 1914. (3)
No available reference connecting
E. W. Hedgeland Bundy:
You’ll have to work that one out
yourself—if you are prepared to
wait, there should be an eventual
return; but if you wish to move
from the “spec.” class to some-
thing a little more secure, you would
certainly 5e11... .F.J.C.8.: (W.A.):
American law, like our own, con-
sists both of Federal and State law,
and their Federal Government deals
in very nearly the same heads of
power as ours. This law and various
restatements in it are quite
readily found in N.S.W. Their
State law is also very similar to the
law of the States of Australia and
deals roughly with the same head-
ings, but there are a great many
more States. Consequently, no
library, in New South Wales at any
rate, contains any reference at all
10 any American State statutes or
common law. We can only advise
that you write to one of "the uni-
versities of Los Angeles, phrasing
the question in a manner to convey
its meaning to a lawyer. Do you,
for instance, want to know the law
relating to the holding of land,
conditions (in a sense of limitations)
applying to land-tenure, economic
inhibitors of those who hold land
in California —or what?
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken le contributor > voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
H.C.M.: Here you go, then:
The politicians take their cut
And look around for more
Yet talk and talk and talk and talk
Is all they give the poor.
Election-time again you’ll find
They’re knocking at the door,
Yet talk and talk and talk and talk
Is all they give the poor.
W.J.P.: “The Octopus” tempt-
ing but too long M.G.P.: Try a
women’s paper G.G.: Liked
your covering note —“Please notify
your comp, that he has to follow
the. copy unless it falls, out the
window.” The verse gets a bit
tangled up with the haggis
P.T.: Overwritten M.F.: The
point of that story seems to have
eluded y0u....R.K.: Don’t overdo
humor W.E.M.: Why set it in
Chicago? A. 1.: “The Wine
Trifle” trifling W.F.: Highly
improbable J.T.: Not for us the
murderer’s “bumper-browned black-
nailed fingers” G.S.: Gardening
yarn choked with weeds—.
E. : A simple approach would
help W.K.: Cast your story to
the “gossamer-thin spirits of the
night” S.D.: Missed by a frac-
tion A.D.S.: Rewrite that poem
as a short-story and resubmit
F. Don’t tell us you, too, have
walked along the “sea-laved spume-
swirling shore”? C.J.F.:
Appetising as cold macaroni....
SJ.: Shows faint promise; reduce
adjectives A. J.T.: You can’t
shatter your way in with “gallons
of martial sound, bursting from
the cathedral organ-10ft”... .T.T.:
All bones, no meat... .C.K.L.:
Well, aside from dubious subject-
matter, it’s a pompous little story.
. ...A.P.R.: Trivial M.N.: “Ye
bolde knightes, holde, I prithee.”
Nay, nay!... .0.T.: Too much
description... .S.Mc.: Handled
slackly F.J.: Cement - mixers
have been churned into print before
—and better A.P.: Weak....
W.A.: Smooth as an air-raid siren.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.K. SERVICE CUTS
TiRITISH press-comment on
the latest moves in the
reorganisation of the Services —
compensation to men and
officers who are to be retired
from the three branches, and
the amalgamation of regiments
to streamline the Army:
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Those who will be axed,
especially senior officers who
have already attained the rank
of major or the equivalent in
the other two Services, will have
no reason to complain of
niggardliness. Nor will junior
officers dr other ranks, whose
bonuses have been calculated at
a parallel rate. A total of
£8640 for a brigadier, retiring
at the age of 44, cannot be
described as mean. A captain,
retiring at the age of 36, will
get £6200.”
The same: “Many of those
who will have to leave the
Forces decided early in life to
make their career in the Navy,
the Army or the Air Force.
That prospect of advancement
has now been cut short in a
manner which is inconceivable
in’ any other profession. It is
all very well to suggest that
many of them are young
enough to start afresh, and to
build new and successful
careers. Let us hope that the
vast majority will do so. But
no one can be certain of it,
least of all Mr. Sandys. Here
lies the main justification for
generosity in the scale of
capital payments, quite apart
from entitlement for pensions.”
The same: “What of the
reorganisation of the Army?
The plan is realistic, and it
avoids the odium which might
have been incurred by the com-
plete suppression of any one
regiment. There are to be 15
brigades, snd existing regiments
will be dovetailed so that each
can make its own proper con-
tribution to the brigade unit.
It sounds a good way of appeas-
ing local patriotism, but we
have yet to be told how it will
work out in practice. There is
bound to be heartburning
when names, fine traditions and
special privileges have to be
surrendered. But the best
officers and men will want to
make the best of the new Army
and not the worst of the old.”
* # #
London “Daily Mail” : “The
compensation rates have been
worked out on sound prin-
ciples.
“First in favor comes the
man in mid-career, round about
his 40’s, who needs and who
gets the most generous con-
sideration.
“Next is the younger man,
with feet firmly on the ladder,
who deserves proper compen-
sation for a lost career, but
London “Daily Mail"
“You say — PAR-R-R-A DE —and I'll say—HALT!"
who is still young enough to
build himself a new one.
“Lastly comes the older
man. He receives the smallest
lump-sum in compensation.
But, because he is nearing the
end of his career, he gels the
highest rate of pension.
“On these terms surely no
man can feel that he has been
thrown on the scrapheap. The
financial support he will get
will be sufficient to allow him
to take a good look at the
wider world and see where his
future lies.”
* + * *
London “Times” : “The
scale of grants offered has been
liberally conceived it will
cost the Exchequer between
£4O million and £5O million —
both as compensation for a loss
and as a means of reducing to
a minimum the element of
compulsory discharge. Many
of the details of this necessarily
intricate plan may be open
to argument, and it is true
that in some ways nothing
can compensate a man fully for
the loss of a career. But the
plan in general does not fail
for want of generosity.”
London “Economist” : “The
£5O million which compensa-
tion will cost over five years
will chip something off the
economies Mr. Sandys [Defence
Minister] has made and Mr.
Thorneycroft [Chancellor of
the Exchequer] has given away.
But the officers’ real need is a
buoyant, expanding economy
which will quickly find need
for their talents, whether tech-
nical or administrative.”
* * . * *
London “Financial Times”:
“An interesting feature of the
procedure for selecting the
officers and other ranks to
be retired is that men in the
categories affected will be
asked to volunteer for retire-
ment, so as to avoid dismissals
wherever possible. This is an
excellent principle, but it
carries with it the danger that
the men with the best civilian
prospects will leave, while the
dull ones stay on. To safeguard
against this, there is likely to be
a compulsory limit to the
number of retirements among
men with certain qualifica-
tions.”
* * * *
“Manchester G u a r d i a n” :
“Even when the painful amal-
gamation of regiments has
taken place, the Army will
retain 49 infantry battalions
and more than 20 fighting units
of the Royal Armored Corps.
That, at any rate, is the hope
behind the Government’s plans.
“The greatest publicity may
go to the forced amalgamation
of famous names like the
Buffs and the Royal West
Kents, the H.L.I. and the Royal
Scots Fusiliers, the King’s
(Liverpool) and the Manchester
Regiments, or the King’s
Dragoon Guards and the
Queen’s Bays
“But the heaviest cuts-so
as ? ne can tell r fro3 ? the
i n f° rrna hon glve ” f so Lo-
are t 0 on u P'P? rtln 2
a rms such as .he R.A.S.C. and
genuinely it
means that the maximum fight-
ing strength is to be retained,
so muc h the better.
* * * *
London “News Chronicle”:
“Britain has to have a new
model Army adapted to the
atomic age. Traditions, how-
ever glorious, and sentiments,
however fine, cannot resist the
demands of military prepared-
ness. It has happened before,
In the 1870*s Cardwell’s reforms
to the Army seemed as far-
reaching as those of Duncan
Sandys. The sword must be
given a new edge.”
The Press
Writing in London “Time
and Tide” on the problems
facing the British pi ess, Sir
Linton Andrews sees little hope
of relief from the rising costs
and intense competition which
have been responsible for so
many casualties among news-
papers and magazines.
“British journalism,” he com-
ments, “is emerging from the
warm shelter of artificial con-
ditions into the bleakest of
realities, in which the competi-
tive strain will doom some
fine papers to perish. We shall
have fewer and (for better or
worse) brighter papers. Some
useful country organs will give
up. Worst of all, in the struggle
to survive and to get the neces-
sary millions of readers, many


Announcing
} our
Morn
.■ysivA
AUSTRALIAN OWNED:::!
8
$Bl
■
$BB
sBBs
sB^
sB^
88$
sBBssB
88888
MOTOR OIL
S.A.E. 20
k::
AS PURE AS AN OIL CAN BE
Now, Ampol presents an entirely
new oil to meet the greater demands
of to-day’s high-speed, high-
compression engines. It is vastly
improved over the oils you have
been using . . . better in many
respeets than ANY OTHER motor
oil on the market to-day.
New Ampol is no ordinary motor
oil. Now refined from the “heart”
of the finest, costliest paraffin-base
crudes, it is so superior that in
recent engine tests it out-
performed six other high-grade
motor oils.
Available in all regular S.A.E.
ratings and Heavy Duty Diesel
grades ,


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
Wellington, n.z.
editors will be driven to
popularity - hunting extremes
instead of seeking the time-
honored press virtues of pro-
portion, fairness and public
spirit. I believe this to be the
great danger.”
The crisis is not peculiar to
Fleet Street: “Many an affec-
tionately derided local rag is
facing a situation that may
become unendurable. The
same is true of many
periodicals. Nor are the new
conditions tightening the rack
in Britain alone.”
The three main problems
are, Andrews adds, “the high
cost of labor, the high cost of
newsprint and other necessities,
and changes in the distribution
of advertising”:
“The facts about the news-
print situation have been stated
so often of late that almost
everybody will realise how
urgent it has become. The
equalised price of newsprint
[in Britain] has risen for the
second half of the year to
£6O 10s. (lightweight) and
£6O ss. (standard weight) a ton.
This is about four times the
price during most of the
’twenties, and about six times
the price when the war began.
“I have little hope of any
significant lowering in the
price. We in the West have
encouraged the world to read.
If that seems too presumptuous
a way to put it let us say that
increasing faith in education
almost everywhere has induced
many millions to read. The
demand for paper has become
London “Daily Express"
“ SSSH!"
insatiable. Britain uses about
one-tenth of the world produc-
tion of newsprint, and this
proportion seems bound to
dwindle. I see no prospect of
relief in these obvious facts.
“Then the cost of the
etceteras —transport, postages,
salaries and wages, news-agency
subscriptions—the cost of all
these and much else presses on
us all the time like an incoming
tide. Newspaper-owners com-
plain of the exorbitant demands
and restrictive practices of
some of their employees. These
employees complain of mono-
polistic greed that shuts down
newspapers and magazines in
an apparently healthy condi-
tion. The word to fasten on
here is ‘apparently.’ For famous
papers and magazines some-
times hide poverty behind a
fapade. Sometimes, like the
Bible, they are venerated rather
than bought and read. The
end becomes inevitable. Are
mergers of the weaklings, or
of the strong and the weak,
morally wrong? I have never
known one that obviously was.
It is sometimes healthier to
submit to the surgeon’s knife
than to totter on feebly.”
The increasingly wide
delivery of city papers is not
peculiar to Britain, and
Andrews’s comments on this
problem as it affects the British
provincial press could be
relevant in the case of many
an Australian country paper.
“Their best policy,” he
suggests, “is not to fight on the
battleground dominated by
those gleaming rivals, but 10
make themselves an indispens-
able part of the business, profes-
sional and administrative life
of their own communities. The
public may be largely in-
different to their merits: there
is a public for them.”
Then there is advertising—
“lf the present level of net
sales will not pay increased
costs and if a general rise of
newspaper selling-prices hangs
back, what can advertising do
to meet a deficit?
“Advertising, stimulated by
some of the liveliest and
brightest minds in the country,
should increase. Some busi-
ness minds sniffily fail to realise
its powers. Many conversions
have still to be made. But if
more money is spent in this
way it will go partly to com-
mercial television. Here, at
least while the novelty lasts, it
finds astonishingly receptive
eyes and minds to work on.
The more successful newspapers
and magazines may well get
more advertising. The less
effective will be left out in the
worried waiting queue.
“The less effective does not
necessarily mean all the smaller
papers or smaller circulations.
Just as the village store meets
the needs that Harrods does not
supply, many a less important
paper offers access to certain
groups of customers with
money to spend, who are cold
to the inducements of Fleet
Street slickness.
“By tradition,” Andrews
concludes, “we think of news-
papers as watchdogs of the
public. Are not some of them
tempted to become blood-
hounds of circulation? Mass-
appeal may become the obses-
sion of some Fleet Street
magnates. What safeguards are
there to prevent mass-appeal,
the struggle for millions of
readers, from meaning in course
of time the excessive romanti-
cising of news, the savage man-
hunt in politics, the seizing on
the trivial and sensational, the
treatment of flesh-and-blood
victims of tragedy as if they
were characters in a serial,
beyond the reach of callous
pestering and persecution? The
ethical standards of the press
are high, but these dangerous
tendencies threaten.”
Middle East Tensions
Communist meddlers in the
Middle East could hardly have
wished for a nicer pot of
trouble than the boil-over in
the Sultanate of Muscat and
Oman, with all the resulting
allegations, recriminations and
direct clash of U.S. and British
policies.
Some of the more obvious
ingredients as listed by British
and U.S. papers:
Britain supporting, a friend
and ally to control a rebel
rising, both because of an
obligation to do so, and also
to preserve British influence
in other Arab States.
Cairo Radio, and others,
howling ‘’British imperialism”
throughout the Arab world.
Jbn Saud of Saudi Arabia
backing the rebels against the
Sultan and, therefore, against
Britain.
Uncle Sam obliged to back
Saud because he is the key to
the “Eisenhower doctrine”
which had some success so far
in weakening Nasser’s influence
and keeping other Arab States
out of the Communist orbit.
Saud, as was noted on these
pages a while ago, allegedly
making Buraimi Oasis the price
for his support of the Baghdad
Pact, and Uncle Sam inclined
to the view that Britain should
back down on that score.
Saud allegedly promising
further concessions to powerful
American oil-interests for their
support in helping him extend
his kingdom, or, on the other
hand, the same U.S. oil-
interests, with eyes on Britain's
vast oil stake in Kuwait and
Qatar, urging Saud to expand
in that direction.
The British press, with Suez
very much in mind, being


Missing Friend
PURSUANT to an older of the Supreme
Court of Victoria made in the Action
1950 No. 56 The Public Trustee Plaintiff
and Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
Defendant the persons claiming to be
entitled as Uncles or Aunts or first
cousins of MARY ALICE CUBLEY late
of Mont Park in the State of Victoria
(who died between the 28th December
1943 and the 3rd January 1944) who
was the daughter of WILLIAM HENRY
CUBLEY' (borii 1826 Bow Middlesex
England) and his wife DELIA formerly
YTENDE (born Winchcombe England
about 1836 the child of EDWIN
YIENDE and MARY ANNE YIENDE)
by their marriage in Victoria in 1861
Or the legal personal representatives of
any such next-of-kin who have died
since the 28th December 1943 are by
their Solicitor on or before the 25th day
of November 1957 to come in and prove
their claims at the office of the Master
Law Courts William Street Melbourne
or in default thereof they will be
Peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said order.
The Second day of December 1957 at
Eleven o’clock in the forenoon at the
said office is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 23rd day of July, 1957. —
MASTER.
HOAD & BONELLA, 161 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff.
iinimuTO
8
o«*
I*o«**
=s*««*?
t«‘
*»*
62DF4
. mu
U Hiw hook of low cost
HOMtVWm...
architect-designed
"DURABESTOS"
HOMES
This new Small Homes
Designs booklet is of
particular interest to
intending home build-
ers. Colour illustra-
tions and floor plans
of architect - planned
homes ranging from
7Vi to 12’/2 squares
floor area are featured.
Write to Wunderlich
Ltd., Dept. "D," Box
474, G.P.0., Sydney for
your copy—it's fre*
Choose your plan
then build with
C Jtim deillch^
DURABESTOS^S^SHEETS
;AYA It ABLE FROM LOCAL DISTRIBUTORS
almost vociferous in its mis-
trust of American Middle East
policy.
As the following sampling of
press-comment from both sides
of the Atlantic indicates, the
British papers find it hard to
keep their thoughts away from
the power of American oil-
interests in the Middle East:
London “Time and Tide” :
“King Saud, having flirted
with the Soviet Union, having
exchanged brotherly " pledges
with Colonel Nasser, having
even tried to paper over the
breach between himself and the
Hashemite dynasties in Irak
and Jordan, has now ingrati-
ated himself exceedingly with
the [U:S.] State Department.
He has also overdrawn some
three years’ worth of advance
oil royalties, so Aramco and the
oil lobby in Washington have
some fairly effective strings on
him. But their longing for an
additional security in the
relatively untapped oil resources
of the Trucial sheikdoms is
making them press him into
action, regardless of Britain’s
responsibilities.
“Meanwhile, Cairo Radio is
hallooing like mad, eager to
flush the English fox. The
whole manoeuvre and the
groupings which it represents
make about as ugly and sinister
an affair as could be imagined.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”: “The
United States Government, in
spite of the agreements highly
favorable to Saudi Arabia
which it has concluded, has no
interest in furthering Saudi
ambitions at the expense of
Britain. It may, however, be
under some pressure from
Aramco, which stands to
benefit by further oil con-
cessions from expansion of
King Saud’s territory. The
U.S. Government has followed
the example of the company
in treating this least exemplary
of sovereigns with kid gloves.
Mr. Dulles has been reported
as urging the British Govern-
ment to reach a compromise
with King Saud over the
Buraimi Oasis dispute. The
seriousness of the situation in
Muscat and Oman lies in the
clash of interests between King
Saud and Britain, which sets
Britain at odds with the United
States.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“One argument against giving
him [Saud] arms is that he is
most likely to use those he
has for such purposes as block-
ading the Gulf of Akaba and
helping the Imam of Oman
to rebel. And he has made no
secret of other aims—to see
the end of Israel and to recover
the Buraimi Oasis. Long
before oil was discovered, it
was a dynastic ambition of the
Saudis to bring the whole of
the Arabian peninsula under
their sway; the Buraimi claims
and the present trouble in
Oman are no doubt two steps
on the way.
“The Americans cannot be
blamed for having divided
minds about such policies;
apart from their eagerness not
to offend the most powerful
supporter of the Eisenhower
doctrine in the area, their oil
industry stands to benefit from
any additional territory over
which he can establish his rule.
But ihey may learn, as Britain
has, that the sands of Arabia
are a treacherous foundation
for foreign policy.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“We [Britain] are pledged to
to help the Sultan [of Oman]
if he asks, and we can no more
let him down than. we can
sign away the Sheikh of Abu
Dhabi’s rights at Buraimi. To
break faith with any of these
rulers would cost us the con-
fidence of all, and the economic
consequence would be as
dangerous as the political. If
we were to appease King Saud
at their expense now, we should
presently find his influence
(and Nasser’s) replacing ours
in Kuwait, the major source of
our oil supplies.
“It is on the advisability of
such appeasement that
American policy diverges from
British. American influence in
the Middle East is exerted
primarily through King Saud,
and it is unquestionably playing
a valuable part in isolating
Nasser.”
* * *
“New York Times'” : “The
real headquarters of the revolt
is in Cairo, where the Imam
has an official bureau that
works hand in hand with the
Arab League dominated by
Nasser. According to the semi-
official Cairo press, the
secretary-general of the league
is engaged in enlisting the other
Arab States in a new struggle
against ‘British imperialism’ in
the tradition which, in his
Parliamentary opening speech,
Nasser claims to have estab-
lished by his victory over
imperialism at Suez. The fruits
of appeasement are beginning
to sprout.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune ”
editorial comment: “The situ-
ation is complicated by the
close relations between King
Saud and the United States, as
well as Saud’s effective work
as a counterpoise to Egypt’s
Nasser. Some of the British
press is already ascribing the
revolt in Oman as a product
of American oil ambitions in
Arabia. This is no help to the
situation. What is needed is
close liaison and joint policy
on the part of the United
States and Britain, aimed at
reducing the tensions that are
so dangerous in this area.”
* * *
Joseph Alsop in • N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” : “The Egyp-
tians quite certainly have had
a hand in it [the trouble in
Oman]. So have the powerful
advisers of King Saud, who
are bitterly hostile to the line
he has followed since his break
with Gamal Abdel Nasser. The
Oman tribes have therefore
been paid to rise against the
Sultan and in favor of the
Imam. The aims are to inflame
the row between King Saud and
the British; to force the
British into overt ‘imperialist’
action which will inflame the
whole Arab world; and by
these means to cause a break
between King Saud and the
United States.”


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
10r... .months’ subscription to "The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z,
British Empire .... £2/ lt/i Foreign .... £3/*/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO RICHARD FRANCIS FEWELL late
of Lakemba. —TAKE NOTICE that
CHRISTINA ELIZABETH FEWELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4133
of 1956 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards *lf you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 18th October 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from W A. DOWE, Solicitor,
92 Pitt Street, Sydney,—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Tn the supreme court of new
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LESLIE KEEN CLARK late of 46
Keira Road Wollongong.—T AKE
NOTICE that NOLA MARY CLARK
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2103 of 1957 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse tor
three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
under S. 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899. If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 18th day of
October 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from .JOSEPH
H. McDOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of
4 Castlereagh Street, a Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Public Debt
The Federal Government is
on the market for another loan,
this time for £3O million for
public works and services and,
as may be necessary, for
redeeming such of the securities-
maturing this month as are
not converted.
At June 30, 1951, the grand
total of our public debt stood
at £3198 million. At June- 30,
1956, it had grown to £4075
million, an increase of £877
million, and it is still going
strong—in the wrong direction.
Incidentally, of that £4075
million £3441 million is
redeemable in Australia and
£634 million overseas, so
fortunately most of it is owing
to ourselves.
In those five years we have
heard nothing but talk of
wonderful prospects,
unbounded prosperity, full
employment and so forth. In
addition, taxation has been
maintained at very high levels,
and thousand-million-pound
Budgets seem to be the order of
the day. In other words, con-
ditions have been such that one
might reasonably have expected
to see something paid off the
mortgage, but the opposite has
been the case. If reductions in
the public debt are not possible
under sucn conditions when
will they be possible?
Because of a highly inflated
national income and wonderful
wool prices, the total percentage
of national income required to
meet the interest liability on the
aebt is about 3 per cent, (in
1939 it was 6.6 per cent, on a
total debt of £1347 million),
but how that percentage would
leap in the event of the
droughts forecast by one
Federal Minister!
A great point is made that
the loans are vital to our
development, public-works pro-
grammes, etc., and I have heard
the same argument advanced
by individual borrowers who
subsequently found themselves
in Queer Street because of over-
optimism. What can happen to
an individual can also happen
to a Government. Much of
our trouble in the past was
due to borrowing for non-pro-
ductive works —we don’t want
a repetition of the Premiers’
Plan when maturity .dates for
Commonwealth Loans were
compulsorily extended and
interest-rates on them com-
pulsorily reduced. —C. E.
Gardiner (Vic.).
Appeals
The law in N. S. Wales gives
a right of appeal from decisions
of magistrates, and rightly so.
Such appeal may be to the
Supreme Court on questions of
law, or to a district-court judge
on questions of fact. It is the
latter to which many take
exception, as it is merely sub-
stituting the opinion of one
man as to certain facts for the
view taken by another man of
the same facts.
The appeal may be from the
decision of a very experienced
magistrate to a newly
appointed judge, without any
previous court-experience.
An appeal is meant to be a
rehearing, and the Justices Act
provides that the judge may not
read the depositions taken in
the lower court without the
request and consent of the
parties to the appeal. But in
actual practice a judge may read
the depositions before going
into court and merely say,
“Well, Mr. Tort, have you any-
thing to add to the evidence
already given in the court
below?” If nothing is added,
the appeal is then disposed of
forthwith.
In South Australia the
appeals system is better. The
appeal there is to the Supreme
Court, and not to Quarter Ses-
sions.—Fell Maken (N.S.W.).
Uniform Building
When the Westralian
“Government Gazette” of
5/6/’57 set out the Uniform
General Building By-laws there
was a sigh of relief from
architects, builders and build-
ing surveyors. For many years
there had been the frustration
of each local authority having
its own building by-laws, and
architects were in constant
bother as they tried to cope
with the varying standards in
the 30 small districts that make-
up the metropolitan area of
Perth.
For years an expert com-
mittee, under the chairmanship


j $ftVE on low firsTcost
SAVE on
SAVE
low
on
running
costs
performance
and
ease
handling
it narf* a.
SAVE with high resale value
cos\ pa
\O>N
. &
%
on
m
m
c
•-
You save five ways with
HOLDEN UTILITY
. . . and get beauty as a bonus
Holden Utility saves you money all along
the line. Your savings start with low first
cost in no other Utility do you get so
much for your money. Running costs are
kept down to a minimum by Holden’s
remarkably low petrol consumption and
long, trouble-free mechanical life.
You save valuable time on each job with
the 70 gross b.h.p. performance of
Holden’s 6 cylinder engine, and with the
driving ease given by the new re-circulating
ball steering, small turning circle, new front
suspension, and 34% greater window area.
You save on maintenance time and cost,
too, because of the nation-wide availability
of low-cost factory-guaranteed parts. All
these features, plus a top-rated resale value,
are the reasons why Holden Utility saves
you money all along the line.
Before deciding on your new utility, it
will pay you to ask your Holden Dealer to
take you for a demonstration drive in
Australia’s biggest-selling Utility—Holden.
LIST PRICE £9lO PLUS TAX
AUSTRALIA’S J§k- OWN UTILITY
Your Holden dealer can tell you all about GMAC Hire Purchase facilities available to you.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
of the Secretary for Local
Government, labored mightily
in the name of uniformity. The
result of their prolonged labor
was a welcome surprise, but the
glee turned to dismay when the
504 clauses were examined.
The clause that hurt most
stipulated that all dwellings and
outbuildings must be at least
6ft. from side boundaries —the
old by-laws generally required
3ft. or 4ft. The Institute of
Architects at once petitioned
the Minister and he agreed to
postpone the operation of the
uniform by - laws until
September 1, 1957, to save loss
and confusion with drawings
on the boards.
There is now a rush of pro-
spective builders to lodge plans
with local authorities before the
deadline. Many car-owners
able to fit a garage at the side
of their house under the exist-
ing by-laws are borrowing
money to build now, rather
than have a long driveway later
to a garage tucked 6ft. into the
yard.
Groups opposed to the uni-
form by-laws are using the 6ft.
provision as the main stick to
beat the Government. There
is a move afoot to rescind the
by-laws. Many are pointing to
the narrow blocks (30ft. and
33ft.) in some of the older-
surveyed regions. To take 12ft.
from them would make it hard
for an owner to build a suitable
house.
Still, most people would be
sorry to see the uniform by-
laws thrown out in toto. At
least, with the deletion of a few
of the clauses, they could bring
order where there has been
chaos, and they took so long
to frame that there are misgiv-
ings about the date of presenta-
tion of the next set. — Wilkie
(W.A.).
Engineers and Engineering
Thanks to “Chartered
Engineer” (B. 24/7/’57) for
his confirming statistics 78
per cent, of our professional
engineers in the public and
semi-public services is really
terrific.
Many, of course, are. very
able men enjoying salaries
commensurate with their ability
and status. A greater number,
however, have obviously
jumped into jobs in which they
can only function as technical
clerks. They were not pre-
pared or, more likely, could
not afford to take it the hard
way for a few years to acquire
experience.
They occupy positions in the
1- to 3-grade classification of
the Commonwealth Public
Service. The median rate
quoted by “Chartered
Engineer” .is for a grade-2
engineer.
Of course the experienced
qualified engineer is entitled
to remuneration in line with
the other professions. In
industry our engineers are
occupying top positions and
Commanding high salaries.
Has “Chartered Engineer”
qver noticed the B.H.P.
advertising for engineers?
Our largest industry draws
its technical staff from gradu-
ates and diplomates prepared
to serve as cadets.
They work as laborers, boiler-
cleaners, tradesmen’s helpers
and general offsiders to a
syllabus of training designed to
develop practical skills, give
wide experience and finally to
determine aptitude for a par-
ticular branch of their profes-
sion. There is no dearth of
applicants.
The present occupants of the
top chairs of the B.H.P. all
went through this mill 25 to
30 years back. I recall the
blighters with affection, not
only for the keen enthusiasm
with which they tackled the
menial tasks but for the
exuberant spirits on and off
the job. You had their respect
when you found your pyjamas
up the flagstaff, your mattress in
the rubbish-heap, the linen
tied to a wire-fence and your
room full of sulphuretted-
hydrogen. . .
No, “Chartered Engineer,”
let’s strive to reverse those per-
centages. With 78 per cent, of


our engineers directing produc-
tion in industry this country
will be on top of the world.—
Old Opencut (S.A.).
Smoking and Cancer
I still maintain that the case
against smoking as a major
cause of lung-cancer (B.
24/7/’57) remains unproven,
although I never denied that
there is reason for suspicion.
The correlation on which
the case rests appears to be
based on overall population-
surveys, and no body of men
responsible for public health
could dismiss the evidence.
However, I think something
more is needed before a deci-
sion either way can be made.
Tobacco-fumes are not the
only vapors under suspicion.
Another school of thought
believes the diesel-fumes that
pollute city streets must be
blamed.
It is not safe to assume too
much from statistics based on
an overall population-survey.
Separate sets of figures cover-
ing country and city dwellers
are need to be sure that the
observed incidence of lung-
cancer generally is not unduly
influenced by the higher pro-
portion of city dwellers
examined.
If the incidence of cancer
were found to be significantly
lower in country areas it would
suggest that some other cause is
operating, something linked
with city environment,
Another point is that
although there may be a
cancerogenic agent in tobacco,
that does not necessarily label it
as the causative agent. The weed
also contains n j co tine, than
which there are few deadlier
poisons, yet humanity seems
to have survived this hazard.
Y ou wowed ’em as a Black Mammy last night , sir—
pity about using Waterproof ink , of course .”
It is also surprising that there
has as yet been no opinion
expressed by the life-assurance
offices. These are the concerns
most likely to suffer if smoking
really did lower life-expectancy.
They have records that are un-
surpassed anywhere and have
had plenty of time to analyse
these records and take action
if it appeared advisable. But
premiums are not yet loaded
against the smoker.—Jackpot
(N.S.W.).
Chinese Communism
It is not correct to say that
Mao was put into power by
force of Russian arms (B.
31/7/’57).
The Russian Communist
policy has been to win power
by using the industrial workers.
That was the policy followed
in the East European countries,
and is the policy of Australian
Communists. Russian expert
opinion never believed that
power could be won through
the support of peasant farmers,
and it was held that the
peasants would be in opposition
to the system.
In China, however, the great
majority were peasants and
only a small minority were
industrial workers. When Mao
set out to win the support of
the peasants, the Russians wrote
him off as hopeless. For this
reason, at the end of Worid
War 11, the Russians gave no
support to Mao, but, on the
contrary, made a treaty with
the Nationalist Government.
It was not until the latter
part of 1948 that the Russians
awoke to the fact that their
theories were being disproved
in China, that Mao was
solidly established on peasant
support, and that the Chinese
Communists were rapidly
extending their control over
the country. Then, indeed, the
(Continued on next page)
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 447
Across
I —Asiatics interrupting the meal ran into a sailor girl of the
instep. (10)
6—Caveman used to rule with such spice. (4)
9 —Product of a U.S. Naval Academy makes Miss Christie
very civil and courteous. (10)
10 — A sudden successful political
manoeuvre keeps business in the
air. (4)
12 — Florida beach associated with a
native Australian shelter. (3-3)
13— Brother Bartle. (5)
15— Hanker after a business treater of
tfie unhuman sick. (5)
16 — Don provides water for such
firm’s bags. (8)
19 — The most inborn place to put up
an examination. (8)'
20 — Male painting a suit pump. (5)
22 Two mothers, or a way of
addressing either. (5)
23 — Size of paper. (6)
26 Pinched to approve. (4)
27 — Fine battle ruined the victims of
a hopping pest. (10)
28 — The objective, perhaps, is luggage.
(4)
29 — A capital tot is a rich Ali. (5, 5)
Down
1' —12-across described the mother
exhalation from putrescence. (6)
2 Equal sunburn thanks Ben. (10)
3 Premier team’s hardwood cut of
beef. (7, 5)
4 Food from a bakery list. (4)
5 Iron rate could be in front. (8)
7 All right, the morning is first to
be berserk. (4)
8 — Non-stop duck coffee. (8)
11 — Part of Europe, part of Asia —
collector’s pieces. (7, 5)
14 —Cricket information: two players
are missing from the 3.30 refresh-
ments. (5, 2,3)
17— Monstrous cart lark. (8)
18 — Bashed burro went crook as
driven by wind in canvas. (8)
21 —A heavenly body thanks a S.A.
city. (6)
24 Stud manager. (4)
25 — Who can be expected to behave
badly to one Turkish magistrate.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 446


DEVELOP YOUR PROPERTY
€COMOAf/f/UL Y with
HUMES
mmt
Sax.
Cowxere
WELL
LININGS
• Fire Resistant.
• Protection for your
underground water
supply.
• Lengths of 4 ft. with
diameters 36"-50".
• Practically Everlast*
ing.
IIUMES LIMITED
BX 4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworth.
HS
of the mission. “With the
Christmas season and the
school holidays, followed by
the recent lovely rains, a large
number of our people had
gone walkabout on the rock-
holes, etc., and so there were
not many here at the time.”
The superintendent’s letters
describe the select committee’s
report as “one of the best,
most faithful and thorough
that one could give.”
Another Expedition
Subsequent to the Murdoch
articles, a party composed of
the W.A. Minister for Native
Welfare and officers of his
department, including two
medical officers, went to the
area.
Grayden and Lapham (one
of the original select commit-
tee) went with the party on
their own initiative, taking
with them aboriginal Pastor
Doug Nicholls, of Melbourne.
The medical report of this
expedition gave the natives of
the area a fairly clean bill of
health, but Grayden main-
tains that this party, too, got
an incomplete picture through
timing their visit during the
“holiday” season of the
mission. The missionaries, he
says, had told the Public
Health Department that this
would be the position and had
suggested postponing the visit
a few weeks. The original
schedule was, however, adhered
to.
Mittiga Waterhole
Grayden further claims that
little effort was made to ensure
that as many natives as possible
were examined, instancing one
case of a party of 43 natives
encountered at Mittiga water-
hole en route to the mission.
They were in very poor condi-
tion the Commonwealth
Native Affairs officer com-
mented that the children were
the worst he had ever seen —
and Grayden’s party offered to
ferry them to the mission in
relays, providing food and
water on the way. The W.A.
Native Welfare officer rejected
this offer, and the natives did
not reach the mission to meet
the medical party.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment subsequently refused to
vote any money for the sug-
gested projects. Unfortunately,
whenever the matter has been
raised in the Federal Parlia-
ment, debate has seemed to
develop on party lines, with
Ministers speaking glowingly
of what has been done for
aborigines in the Northern
Territory. This has nothing to
do with the case, but it does
direct attention to the fact that
the Commonwealth is able to
spend more money on the
15,000 aborigines in the
Northern Territory than the
West Australian Government
can find for the 25,000 within
its boundaries.
Constitutionally, aborigines
are a State responsibility, and
that is the reason given £or
w- • f ~ ~r
w ? 1 i reqi ? est
Westralian delegation. At the
same time the Federal Govern-
ment has accepted the Murdoch
report rather than that of the
W.A. Select Committee, which
Supply Minister Beale referred
to in Parliament as “one of the
most unreliable documents,
resulting in the worst possible
service to aborigines, that has
ever been promoted in any
Parliament.”
For all that, it is impossible
to read Adam and Atoms with-
out feeling that later
investigators saw a very
different picture from that
observed by the first party and
an official issue of rose-
colored spectacles was part of
their equipment.
Moreover, whether the select
committee exaggerated condi-
tions or not, it seems to be
generally agreed that their
ultimate proposals were reason-
anc* practical. The
W f“ al ‘ an , Government has
not the funds necessary to carry
them out, although it has
Parliamentary approval of
tbem
N o ma dic aborigines take no
notice of State boundaries, and,
despite the Constitution, their
welfare seems an obvious
matter for Federal responsi-
bility. A simple way of
approaching this would be the
transfer by Westralia and South
Australia to the Common-
wealth of native reserves con-
tiguous to the Northern
Territory.
Russians began to give support
to Mao, but by that time any-
body could see that Mao
would shortly have control
over all of north China.
Probably no one foresaw that
the Nationalists would collapse
so utterly as practically to
hand over all of continental
China to the Communists.
From the end of World War
II until almost the end of
1948, the Nationalists had the
strong support of the (J.S. and
a treaty with the Russians,
while Mao had no support at
all except his clear insight into
the Chinese situation.
The important difference
between Russian Communist
policy and Chinese Communist
policy is that Mao proved that
the road to power in Asia is
through the support of the
peasants, not the industrial
workers. By and large, the
Western world fails to realise
this point, just as the Russians
failed earlier. And failure to
realise means failure to under-
stand and to combat the
methods of Asian Communism.
This lack of realisation was
the basic cause of the failure
to suppress Ho Chi Minh in
Indo-China. Certainly, Ho
Chi Minh had the support of
the Chinese Communists in the
end, but there were several
years before that when a proper
appreciation of the facts could
have provided a solution. If
we continue to fail to under-
stand the methods of the Asian
Communists we won’t wake up
until too late to combat the
spread of Communism in
South-east Asia,
My views are based on actual
experience of the conditions
which made possible the
Communist methods. I was
j n China from the beginning
D f 1946 until late in 1949, first
with U.N.R.R.A. (1946-47)
an d then as adviser to the
Canton Government (1947-49).
j have §een many “ expe rts”
vfeit china to be taken on
conducted tours by pastmasters
_ aU Chinese, whether
Nationa ii st or Communist, are
pastmasters in the art of
p u i j i n g the wool. W. J.
DUNCAN (Q-).


Best
Mineral
Supplement
Wv
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick
I
Os
I*'
yl*"-’
©o*
so***
k 47.
4
‘d’d-Sai-Oi.
STEIUUSEO
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALOC PHOSPHATE
A»y particular! gladly lappllad—
Writ. «. DAVIS GELATINE: GAO Em Ml.
SYDNEY • GA.O 6o« 40S*. MELBOURNE • GAO.
loa H2f. ADELAIDE • GA.O. So. »SBK. BRISBANE
• GAO Boa SSt. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CAIRNS SHOW
'THIS writer always
approaches the Cairns
(Q.) Show with a feeling of
guilt.
Common decency, one
would think, would make any
self-respecting Northerner act
on the suggestion implicit in
the Cairns Agricultural,
Pastoral and Mining Associa-
tion’s threefold title, and view
the exhibits in that categorical
order.
This is a responsibility that
I invariably evade ; an evasion
which is physically difficult to
excuse. The association has
gone to a great deal of trouble
to unobtrusively direct the
visitor’s interest into the proper
channels. Right at the main
gateway they introduce an
agricultural effect with lofty,
noble and competing avenues
of sugar-canes from Mulgrave,
Hambledon and Mossman
areas.
With no great effort, and
only a token journey halfway
around the ringside, the maize
of the Atherton Tablelands,
A common cause of
disease amongst lambs
at marking time is the
use of dirty instru-
ments. Marking and
tailing by Elastrator
Rubber Rings is the
most hygienic method
of all. It is a method
which does not
involve open wounds
to become infected
by disease germs.
the one-farm exhibits flaunting
everything from junket to jute,
the best of Mareeba tobaccos,
the Junior Farmer displays, are
exposed to view.
Before one circuit of the
ringside nears completion, the
new Droughtmasters, the red
f-Zebu-crosses (which will be
classed at the Brisbane Exhi-
bition for the first time next
year), invite inspection; and
so do the minerals ; and also,
at the 1957 Cairns Show this
July 23, 24, 25, in the Fine
Arts section of the Fogarty
Hall, there is the work of Joe
Rootsey, one Old Australian
who is not being hailed by
artists and tourists as ‘‘another
Namatjira,” but, simply and
sanely, as an interesting young
painter with something
reminiscent of cave-drawings
and totem-marks in the dun,
umber and ochre landscapes
of his inelastic washes.
All this I inspect, but later;
each to his taste, at shows
particularly. Every year I
admire the skill of another
artist —who, to the best of my
knowledge, isn’t even a
Northerner the Notable
Rubber Man. And now, this
year, he has gone.
He demonstrated, in the
past, upon indifferent plywood,
with only a splattering of
varnish, a deceptively casual
handful of his notable,
moulded rubber, and a chest-
strapped mike as aids, methods
of conjuring whorls and grains
of rare and beautiful pattern.
He said anyone could do the
same with a “penn’orth of
paint”; and, of course, one
piece of his notable rubber. I
never quite swallowed this;
for One thing, it wasn’t paint,
but varnish ; for another, one
buys very little varnish nowa-
days for a penny; and I
always suspected that the secret
of the beautiful patterns lay
less in the properties of his
rubber than in some unique
magic of his fingers.
Whatever the value of his
wares—l never bought any—
the Notable Rubber Man
belonged to the authentic order
of things at shows, fairs and
festivals —a maker of wonder.
Cairns Show, this year, wasn’t
quite the same without him . . .
Even last year, when cyclone
“Agnes” whimsically wrapped
sections of the Show Associa-
tion’s buildings around the
mangroves of the swamp
bordering the Showground,
diligent gleanings in wind-
shattered canefields produced
a respectable display of cane.
This year’s exhibit has cane of
such robust stature that, if the
lofty avenues at the Show-
ground were truly representa-
tive of the district’s crops, one
fears for the health of contract
canecutters, called upon to load
the stuff on cane-trucks in the
field. Certainly it would be
ambitious to seize the
champion stool of Trojan cane
with anything lighter than a
front-end loader . . .
There is an old, unconfirmed
and beautiful theory that
horses contesting the high-
jump at Cairns Show are
assisted, both in take-off and
landing, by the springiness of
the ground underfoot. This
springiness, it is claimed, comes
directly as a result of the
gradual building-up of the
jumping-area by loads of
secondhand hops which had
already done useful service at
the local brewery.
Whatever the reason, Cairns
is rich in world-record high
jumps. In 1939 Mrs. Blancken-
see’s pony, Larrikin, took
world honors in its class with
a jump of 7ft. Bin., in 1946
Gold Meade, in open class,
cleared Bft. 6in. to set a world
record, and, this year, Mrs.
Blanckensee’s gallant little
D.D.T., 14 hands, with Alan
Smythe up, made a magnifi-
cent leap of Bft. |in. to
capture a new pony world-
record.
Total revenue for the three
days was £5BBl, a bit down on
last year’s £5951 ; but the
association copped another
£6OO when it won its 15-
point rain-insurance gamble
by one point. Over 33,000
pe0p1e—33,242, to be precise
—came through the gates to
see, among other things, wood-
chopping, tree-felling, hunts,
trots, veneer-work, a mammoth
display of orchids, little Miss
Aileeri Kelly, of Mareeba, and
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin" Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered—in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin’’ will send one
on its way.


mu
wm
a
win
AWA</..
6
m
WHEN ITS Off f(
Dalyolys
they're so dependable!
her trick pony, Trump, both
seven and very clever, the
“Northernaires,” a band of
attractive young ladies who
gave a display of precision
marching, and school copy-
books with copperplate of
such precision that the set
passage, “How far the little
candle throws its beams. So
shines a good deed in a
naughty world,” expressed a
devastating poignancy; to the
possible benefit of the Salva-
tion Army collection-box near
by. At a carpet-snake auction,
much patronised by small boys,
surplus snakes from the
Ambulance Snake Pit retailed
at the reasonable price of ss.
a yard.
CLIVE MORTON.
Milkmaker
“Alfalfa”: Most Australians
prefer to feed lucerne from the
plant and store it as hay rather
than as silage, but recent U.S.A.
experiments have shown that
silage is the cheapest w r ay of
making milk out of conserved
lucerne.
Although the cows which
were given chopped lucerne-
hay made the most milk, those
on silage produced more milk
per unit of feed, and more
milk to the pound of protein
eaten.
Even so, this writer doubts
whether these findings will
make much difference to the
amount of lucerne-silage made
in Australia. For one thing,
lucerne is such a valuable
summer-feed, and there are
plenty of other things which
ban be made into silage more
easily and cheaply.
Good lucerne-silage is hard
to make. Vic. Department of
Agriculture experts point out
that it goes sour if not allowed
to heat sufficiently. Additives
such as molasses or crushed
grain might help to improve
the quality of lucerne-silage.
Tussock
“Yonkers”: Serrated-tussock
—already a problem in N. S.
Wales and New Zealand —can
expect a barrage of clovers to
combat it when it goes south
over the Murray into Victoria.
Experiments on both sides of
the Tasman show that red-,
white-, and sub.-clovers can
beat this weed.
Of particular importance is
the fact that sub.-clover can
oust the tussock if given half
a. chance.
In the experiments, over-
sowing has proved successful
so long as the clovers have
been encouraged by plenty of
superphosphate, and molyb-
denum where necessary. Aerial
topdressing has been done with
great advantage.
Another point is to make sure
that the new sward is not over-
grazed in the early stages, and,
if it is an annual, that it is
allowed to seed freely in at
least its first year.
Fancy Cheese
“Starter”: The overseas
market for Australian dairy-
produce is very uncertain, and
the market for cheese is jqo
exception.
It’s strange that the industry
has been so slow in taking
advantage of the markets for
fancy cheese created by the
influx of New Australians.
Their taste for cheese varies
from ours, but they are hearty
cheese-eaters, for all that.
Cheese forms the main ingredi-
ent in many of their dishes.
For example, one could hardly
imagine an Italian dish of
spaghetti without a liberal
sprinkling of cheese.
Yet cheese-manufacturers in
Queensland, which has a large
New Aussie population, have,
with one or two very minor
exceptions, doggedly stuck to
the time-honored cheddar.
Most New Australians don’t
care for cheddar.
By and large, the industry
in Queensland has faced up to
modern trends very well.
Thirty years ago small factories
dotted the landscape at inter-
vals of four or five miles.
These factories were so close
that it was a standing joke
among cheese men, “If you
strike strife just yell out. The
bloke in the next factory will
hear you!”
Time has altered this. Since
the last war the industry has
become quality-conscious, and
dozens of small factories have
closed and their supply has
been concentrated in larger
units.
The bigger associations have
been able to instal modern
facilities, such as isolated
starter-rooms and air-condi-
tioned rooms for curing cheese,
which were normally beyond
the means of the smaller
concerns, and, all round, there
has been a marked improve-
ment in quality.
But, despite all this, cheese
consumption has remained at
a fairly low level —somewhere
around 61b. per head per
annum. The strange part of all
this is the difference in price
between cheddar and the fancy,
imported varieties. You would
be flat-out to buy a pound
of gorgonzola, provolone,
parmesan or New Zealand
epicure under 7s. a lb. In
Brisbane some of this cheese
is selling as high as 11s. a lb.
And it’s not all being bought
by New Australians, either.
Old Australians are going for
it in a big way.
Last year Queensland manu-
factured 7580 tons of cheese.
Practically all of this was
cheddar. One privately-owned
factory turned - out small
quantities of several fancy
varieties, and this sold like hot
cakes. But, of course, the
amount was very small when
compared with the demand. It


Russian Comfrey
1. Outylelds all other crops •with
300 tons an acre each year, and
has exceeded all other crops in
protein (33.68%).
2. Is already thriving in cold-
temperate, temperate and sub-
tropic parts of Australia. 100%
strike of my planting material
reported from as far away as
Western Australia.
3. Will yield up to one ton a day
from only 1J acres with good
management. Produces large
quantities of feed when pasture
is scarce. Has great drought
resistance when established.
4. Persists for up to 40 years
without deteriorating. Does
not seed, sucker or get out of
control. Certified by C.5.1.R.0.
*s NOT TOXIC. Is not easily
frost-burnt. Is very mineral
rich owing to deep root system.
Contains much lime.
5. Is valuable calf-food. Cows and
calves love it. Causes good
milk flow. Contains valuable
medicine Allantoin which stops
scouring.
6. Does not bloat, banishes intes-
tinal and digestive troubles.
Has lew fibre content for pigs
and poultry. Farmers say pigs
will leave almost any food to
eat it.
7. Can be sun-dried and stored as
high protein meal.
8. Is beneficial to sheep, goats and
horses also.
9. Has no known insect pests, is
not touched by rabbits, is very
hardy. Has been introduced
to thousands of Australian
farms.
10. Is easier to establish, longer in
cut and higher in yield than
lucerne. Has been authori-
tatively rated equal to Italian
ryegrass, probably the choicest
of grasses in feeding value.
Roots from farm-tested plants avail-
able. Immediate delivery. Will reach
any part of Australia in less than week
and arrival fresh guaranteed. An
interest taken in your growing prob-
lems. Prompt reply to enquiries.
Send for introductory booklet giving
my farm experiments with this remark-
able crop, and book with pioneer
grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
GREEN FARM, RED HIED STH.,
VICTORIA.
hardly hit the shop before it
was gone.
A survey of the overseas
situation shows that the time
is ripe to consider making
cheese more attractive on the
shelf. It doesn’t make you any
keener on cheese to walk into
a country store and find a large
cut cheddar slumping over and
weeping in the heat.
Cheese must be attractive to
the eye if people are to buy
much of it. The fancy varieties
lend themselves admirably to
attractive packaging. The
cheddar variety does, too.
Most storekeepers would
welcome a change from the
present way of dispensing
cheese over the counter. If
the cheese is inclined to be
dry and hard a fair amount is
wasted when the block is cut
into pound or smaller amounts.
You want a soft cheese to cut
up if you are to cut loss to a
minimum. Yet a soft cheese
is generally immature, and
there’s nothing less attractive
than soapy cheddar-cheese.
So the poor old storekeeper
doesn’t win either way. The
solution is attractive packag-
ing in sizes suitable for
the average housewife She
gets it as she wants it, and the
storekeeper doesn’t lose on the
bits and pieces.
There’s another angle to this
packaging. The loss in shrink-
age is reduced, and the cheese
is resistant to mites and mould.
Nothing puts the housewife off
cheese quicker than to have to
scrape mould off it.
One can’t be too hard on
the cheesemaker. It takes time
to swing over to these new
varieties. You can’t do it in
a day. One of the greatest
troubles is to get a man who
can make them. It is a
specialist’s job. You can’t learn
it out of a book, as some are
trying to do. Still, there are
New Australians who can fill
the bill. They have the skill
and experience, and we
shouldn’t be too proud to learn
from them.
There’s another thing to be
considered. Cheddar is a low-
moisture, hard cheese. It can
take a lot of bashing around
in transport. Most of the fancy
cheeses are softer, with a
higher moisture-content. This
poses a transport problem.
These cheese would need
more care in transport. Still,
the problem isn’t insuperable.
They cart meat, fruit and
vegetables all over the State,
and do a good job of it, so
cheese shouldn’t be any harder.
The fact remains that
Queensland, as well as the rest
of Australia, has a large New
Australian population that
prefers fancy cheese. And their
numbers are growing daily. At
present most of this cheese is
being imported, while Aus-
tralian cheddar is selling on a
poorer market.
The dairy industry is slipping
if it doesn’t do something
about this market. There isn't
much doubt that the consump-
tion per capita would rise if
more varieties of cheese were
available.
Fox Experiment
“Havasank”: Latest device
to be pitted against the fox’s
cunning is the series of flash-
ing lights attached to fences.
These are claimed to protect
lambs from raids, which have
increased considerably since
myxomatosis has reduced the
frequency of rabbit on the
menu.
Although big losses of lambs
because of foxes have been
reported in many Victorian
districts, such as Moliagul,
possibly the greatest number of
deaths per flock has occurred
in the Mornington Peninsula,
where there are several classy
studs as well as many commer-
cial flocks.
So it is fitting that the first
test with flashing lights in Aus-
tralia should be in this area,
sponsored by the recently
formed Fat Lamb Breeders’
Association, which is led by
Jim Coles, who toured New
Zealand recently on a Royal
Agricultural Society Scholar-
ship.
The experiment is being con-
ducted on the property of Max
Piggott, who visited Britain
a year or two ago as a Nuffield
Scholar.
Members of the local branch
of the Fat Lamb Breeders’
Association will co-operate by
recording their losses from
foxes for comparison with those
in the part of Mr. Piggott’s
property which is protected by
the flashing lights.
Electricity for the lights is
supplied by the battery which
provides power for the electric-
fence. Part of the experiment
will be to determine the greatest
distance between lights at which
foxes can be kept away.
Lucerne-meal
“Billjim”: Lucerne-meal is
the answer to the green-feed
problem for poultry on farms
where greens are not available.
The meal supplies some of
nearly every vitamin needed by
the birds for steady, high-
quality production. The
dehydrated form is the more
efficient, but a good product
can be made from field-cured
lucerne-hay cut from young
growth.
Best feeding-rates are 3.5 per
cent, of total feed for young
stock, and five per cent, for
adult stock. At these levels
lucerne-meal will save 10 per
cent, of meatmeal in the ration.
In making the meal from
field-cured hay, it’s well to
remember that fodder exposed
to rain, or heavy dews, or left
out in the paddock, or which
has lost most of its leaves, will
part company with most of its
vitamins. Lucerne should be
cut one day and brought in the
next, or, at the latest, on the
third day. Four tons of lucerne
will give one ton of meal.
Moreover, vitamins may be
lost in storage. Meal should
be kept away from light and air
as far as possible.
Farrowmg-pens
“G.”: Queensland pig-
raisers hope to cut litter-losses
with circular fari owing-pens.
In trials in N.Q., losses have
been reduced threefold.
Circular farrowing - pens
have been given a thorough
tryout at the Ruakura experi-
ment-station in New Zealand.
This is what they look like. An
outer circular concrete wall is
built first. One doorway is
provided. Inside this is
another semicircular wall. This
is set off-centre from the
original wall. The idea is to
give the sow room to move
about and lie down. The
remaining half of the inner-
semicircular wall is completed
with metal grills. This gives
the piglets a safe place to sleep
and lie down.
A hinged roof, about 4ft.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(1/8/’57)
A large part of Queensland should receive general
rain during September, although the Peninsula and north-
west may get only poor rains. The heaviest falls are likely
in the central highlands and central coast; possibility of
flooding in these parts.
Moderate to good, general rains likely in N.S.W. during
September, with the best falls on the northern tablelands,
south-west slopes and Riverina. Rainfall should become
patchy during October and November.
Good general rains are indicated in Victoria during
September, with the likelihood of flooding in the Murray
and tributaries. Reasonably good follow-on rains should
occur in October and November.
General rains are likely in a largo part of South
Australia during September, although the interior and west
coast may be confined to light rains.
In W.A., during September, good rains, mainly above
normal, in south-west and south coast, light falls in the
Gascoyne and goldfields areas, and poor elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


'Phanovis' brand of Phenofhiaz!n».
Wearing tine is
%
Mi&i Y ,'
m
m
Mm
Drenchihq time /
use
'PHENOVIS'
Weaning time is the most critical time
in the life of young sheep.
They are more subject to worm
infestation, and a setback now will
affect them for the rest of their lives.
DRENCH YOUR WEANERS NOW!
'Phenovis' proved efficient because:
(1) It is made from extremely fine-
ground Phenothiazine.
(2) It effectively controls the major
intestinal worms.
(3) Worm-free sheep produce 25%
more wool than those worm
infested.
(4) Helps sheep resist infestation.
(5) Helps keep pastures contamination
free.
Insist upon SUPERFINE quality
'PHENOVIS'
Liquid or Powder
Order NOW from your supplier
» DEPENDABLE A!ft Mj L
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
471.PHK.S4X.Mt*
ICI
Pjjjmmo N_ PRODUCT
OF AUSTRALIA S NEW ZEALAND LTD.
high, is built over the pen. The
hinge arrangement allows the
roof to be tilted to suit the
weather. As much, or as little,
sunlight can be let in as
wanted.
Because it can be heated in
very cold weather, the pigs can
be kept warmer. The pen
is easy to clean, because there
are no corners. Trials have
shown that the sow takes
readily to these circular pens.
Any handyman can build
one. They cost around £4O if
the farmer does the job himself.
When one considers the price
of timber, this is very
reasonable.
Spring-sown
Perennials
“Billjim”: Run-down sub.-
clover pastures will benefit by
the introduction of perennial
grasses such as phalaris, peren-
nial-rye and cocksfoot in the
spring, in the higher-rainfall
areas,
Many pastoralists have
doubted this for years, think-
ing normal dry conditions in
summer would prove too severe
for young growth.
A good seedbed is essential,
and for this purpose paddocks
should be closely grazed during
Ihe winter, ploughed as soon as
practicable, and worked-down
to a fine tilth. Where soil-
erosion is a hazard, paddocks
should be rolled.
Sow seed just beneath the
surface, and cover with light,
trailing harrows.
Farm Hinfs
“Dano”: Three-day sickness,
an ephemeral fever, makes
cattle stiff and lame. Affected
beasts should be put in a quiet
paddock, near water and
shade. No other treatment is
necessary. Droving or drench-
ing can cause deaths. The
fever generally lasts no more
than three days.
“Hist”: The plastic bag, now
commonly used in the kitchen
tor covering foodstuffs, is also
handy in the garden for strik-
ing cuttings. Set the cutting in
a largish tin or flower-pot in
well-moistened soil, make a
hoop of fencing-wire to stand
10in. or 12in. high, work the
plastic bag over the hoop, and
tie firmly with twine or raffia
around the rim of the tin or
Pot so as to exclude air. There
Will be little or no evaporation,
and no further watering is
required. Leave until the cut-
ting has struck. Small seeds
that need a bare covering of
soil can be kept moist until
they germinate by the same
method. One word of caution:
don’t allow the sun to strike
on the plastic bags, or you’ll
broil your cuttings.
“Jacko”: Frost-damage to
wheat is sometimes confused
with diseases that create similar
symptoms. However, bleached
heads, leaves distorted and
brittle, with lower nodes and
internodes browned and
buckled, denote hard - hit
frosted plants. The best use
for frosted wheat is to cut it for
hay as soon as possible.
“Unk”: The metal bases of
kerosene brooder-lamps are
subject to rust-damage. Use
lamps with glass bases, if avail-
able in correct size and
capacity.
“Tiddles”: When replacing
ball- and roller-bearings, dis-
assemble the old bearings from
the shaft by applying heat to
about 200 deg. F. to the inner
race, but have a localised heat
that will not be dispersed over
f" the bea [ in S-. Before fitting
tbe new bea nng, clean the
bearing-seat on the shaft, heat
the new bearing until it is just
t° hold, and slip on the-
shaft. Bearings fitted carefully
in this manner will have a
much longer life than bashed-
on bearings.


Women’s Letters
MELBOURNE
Pink and white blossom mixed with
daffodils and jonquils decorated the
State drawing-room at Government
House when guests were received at a
late-afternoon party given by Lieut.-
Governor Sir Edmund Herring and Lady
Herring (her afternoon-frock was of
midnight-blue embossed-silk). A full-
skirted frock of peacock-green taffeta
was chosen by Margaret, daughter of the
host and hostess.
Mrs. Morris Sallman chose a pale-beige
curvette trimmed with matching nut-
kernels. Mrs. H. R. Hamer’s wide pill-
box hat was of pastel-pink silk. Lady
Steele wore with her grey wool frock
a sapphire-blue velvet cap. Garlands of
white wistaria falling almost to the
shoulders made the charming hat worn
by Madame Le Bas de Plumetot, wife of
the French Consul. Mrs. H. G. Acton,
wife of the Air-Vice-Marshal, added a
pastel-blue silk draped beret to her black
frock.
•£r ☆ ☆
In almost every hat in the collection
for spring and summer shown by Anne
Collins, of Sydney, at the Hotel Australia,
there is enchantment. Many feature
lovely soft French flowers in pastel
tonings, and the materials are feather-
light. Designs and materials were selected
in Paris by Mary Anne McDonald.
The off-the-face look is shown in
various forms; there is the “bloused”
beret and the sou’-wester. Flower-tones
are well to the fore, but the blues, from
turquoise to deep-marine, are the high-
lighting shades.
Imagination has been used in color-
combinations. A little amethyst is intro-
duced on white ; salmon-pink blends with
pale-Chartreuse ; and once again there is
the ever-popular navy with white. One of
the outstanding hats shown was
Givenchy’s “Grand Prix.” It is coolie
in shape and composed entirely of layers
of palest shell-pink degradee-chiffon—a
finely-pleated material—and is soft and
light on the head. A flat bow of matching
velvet set high on the flat crown is Its
only trimming. Madame Vernier, of
London, designed one hat composed of
four crimson-shaded roses mounted on
moss-green rose-leaves.
An Anne Collins original model in the
flower-theme featured winding trails of
white wistaria mounted on pale-green
tulle and finished with a deep-aqua-
marine velvet bow. “Wimbledon” is the
name given to a hat which interprets one
of the new lines of the sou’-wester —it is
of coarse Italian braid finished with a
swathe of jersey. The original was worn
by the Duchess of Kent at Wimbledon.
☆ ☆ ☆
Another splendid effort by the Ameri-
can Women’s Auxiliary to the Royal
Children’s Hospital resulted in £3025
being raised by the “Dance in Disney-
land” with which the A.W.A. celebrated
Independence Day. At a meeting held at
No. 9 Darling Street auxiliary-president
Mrs. Max Clements handed the cheque to
Mrs. G. I. Stevenson, who is acting-
president of the hospital in Lady Mur-
doch’s absence on holiday. During the
afternoon, good wishes were extended to
Mrs. Clements, who leaves on a 10-weeks
visit to the U.S. on August 27. Life-
governorships of the hospital were
presented to Mesdames Clements,
\y. L. Boehner, John Brent, L. F.
Donnelly, R. Hawke and R. Ward.
The lovely turban-beret here dis-
played is in pale-blue vaprceuse. The soft
folds of the material are caught in front
with a jewel called “Les Sylphides.”
Designed by the French milliner Guy La
Roctie, it was seen in the Anne Collins
collection. Photo by Ray Leighton.
The Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck),
her daughter, Mrs. Geoffrey Tolson, and
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Bruce Selleck,
attended the Village Theatre, Toorak, for
an afternoon of fashions and ballet held
to boost the Mayor of Prahran’s appeal
for funds to aid both youth and aged,
and were welcomed by the Mayor and
Mayoress of Prahran (Cr. and Mrs. G. E.
Furnell), Mr. Peter Howson, M.H.R., and
Mrs. Howson. Ticket-secretaries were
Mrs. F. W. Thomas and Mrs. L. Reich-
stein ; Mrs. Leo Curtis was another
worker for the cause.
Those who attended included Lady
Tait, Lady McCauley, Mrs. John
Summons, Mrs. Oswald Bowden, Mrs.
W. J. Upjohn, Mrs. Norman Watt, Mrs.
John Heath, Mrs. Robert Lane and her
daughter Mrs. Charles Lane, Mrs.
S. Aarons, Mrs. Norman Lynch and her
daughter-in-law Mrs. Peter Lynch, and
Mrs. George Laurens and her daughter
Diana.
Mrs. Kenneth Cole was in charge of
the fashions, which ranged trom casual
wear to evening-gowns. Kex Reid created
the unusual ballets, and Ann Church
designed the costumes.
«
Daffodils and white gladioli decorated
the reception-room at the Town Hall
when the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank and Lady
Selleck) gave a civic reception to U.K,
High Commissioner Lord Carrington and
Lady Carrington (who wore a trock of
soft wool-faille in champagne-tonings
with a starfish-cap in forest-green velvet),
The hostess’s choice was a navy frock
with a side-drape of navy-and-white-
spotted silk, her small white hat edged
with clusters of flowers. Mrs. Arthur
Rylah, wife of the Deputy Premier, wore
a cinnamon wool jacket-frock trimmed
with beige and red taffeta, and a curvette
of beech-brown feathers.
Among the guests were Sir Thomas and
Lady White, Assembly Speaker W,
McDonald and Mrs. McDonald, Sir
Henry and Lady Winnecke, Mrs. T. i,
Ryan, the Lady Superintendant of the
Alfred Hospital (Miss Jean Hanna),
Matron-in-Chief of the R.A.A.N.C,
Colonel J. Bowes, Dr. and Mrs. Dunlop,
Mr. and Mrs. John Inkster, Mr. and Mrs,
Bob Gove, Sir Sydney and Lady Rowell,
Air-Marshal Sir John and Lady
McCauley, and the Town Clerk (Mr. F,
Rogan) and Mrs. Rogan.
£r ☆ ☆
When she was married at St. John's
Church, Heidelberg, Helen Suzanne,
younger daughter of Mr. Alan Taylor, of
Auckland (N.Z.), wore a lovely Empire-
gown of white silk-faille. The bodice
featured a boat-shaped neckline trimmed
with white satin, and the skirt merged
into a long train. The fingertip tulle
veil was held with a pearl-studded satin
circlet, and she carried a bouquet of
white hyacinths. Charming street-length
frocks of deep-jacaranda-blue Italian
velvet were worn by matron-of-honor
Mrs. David Wardlaw and bridesmaids
Barbara Harkness and Eril Albiston. They
also wore white velvet curvettes and
carried bouquets of long-stemmed white
carnations. The bridegroom is the
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Pizzey, of Eaglemont. David McGlashan
was best man and groomsmen were Bill
Philip and Andrew Grimwade.
The reception was held at the home of
the bridegroom’s parents, Mrs. Piz#y
receiving the guests, her choice a frock
of deep-blue re-embroidered lace and i
sapphire-blue Arctic-fox stole. Among
the guests were Sir Leslie and Lady
Martin, Mr. Justice A. Adam and Mrs.
Adam. Mr. and Mrs. Leil Pizzey, Mr. and
Mrs. Norman Pizzey, Mr. and Mrs. Get®
Mitchell (Deniliquin, N.S.W.), Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss, Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Wenzel, Mr. and Mrs. Nod
Harman and Mrs. Neilma Gantner.


SYDNEY
It was fashion, fashion all the way this
jyeek, with an interlude for culture when
the Opera House Appeal was launched
and the sight of schoolchildren playing
“Hamlet” on the steps of the Anzac
Memorial reminded one that it was
Education Week also.
# V . v
The biggest fashion-affair was the open-
ing of the Sybil Connolly Irish parades
at David Jones’ restaurant. An evening
function, everyone was dressed on the
fabulous side, jewelled heels to their
shoes, sparkles on their eyelids (on one
pair at least), long floating stoles of chiffon
or taffeta, coats of mink, ermine, kolinsky.
Sir Charles and Lady Lloyd Jones, of
course, were there and Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Packer and the respective families.
Mrs. Edward Macarthur Onslow
(Camden) brought a party of 10 (Phoebe
Macarthur-O. was one of the
mannequins). First to book a table was
Mr. W. H. McCredie, of Woollahra. He
usually is on these occasions.
V v v
The fashions from Melbourne designer
Hall Ludlow, which were shown at two
parties at Glen Ascham in aid of the
Crippled Children’s Association, were
very rich and rare —definitely avant-
garde. The long-waisted, bloused-back
coat and the barrel-line were skilfully
handled, but it was significant that when
the coats were taken off and the dresses,
shaped to the natural line of the figure,
were disclosed, the applause was
redoubled.
A few of Hall Ludlow’s confections
made their appearance again at the
fashion-parade in aid of the U.N. Relief
Fund at Prince’s on Wednesday—one
especially popular, worn 'by Diana
Gregory, was a swathed dress of pat-
terned polished-cotton which also lined
the reversible yellow cotton coat. The
Lady Mayoress, Mrs. H. F. Jensen, was
guest-of-honor, and she was welcomed
by Mrs. lan Jacoby (whose jewel-collared
poodle was too shy to go in the parade).
Mrs. Max Cornelius and Miss Evelyn
Gardiner shared the compering honors.
ft .ft ft
The fourth fashion showing to be
attended was called “Silk Stockings,” but
it showed hats, just to be different. There*
was one hat, however, that was decorated
with two crossed legs in black stockings
—“Just for fun,” said Madame
Anthony, the creator of the piece of
nonsense. (It reminded one of the hilari-
ous M.G.M. musical “Silk Stockings,”
which is showing in Sydney at present
and is based on the Garbo film “Ninot-
chka.”) Mrs. Tom Bateman modelled
some of the hats shown, and her sisters
Mrs. Michael Fitzpatrick and Mrs. Peter
Willis, with Mrs. K. H. Taubman, were
among the onlookers.
# * V
Apropos of stockings—the seamless
style is growing in popularity. Of course
they fit much better than the seamless
stockings of the early days of nylons,
but the “fully-fashioned” were such an
advance when they first made their
appearance that it seems odd to go back
to seamlessness.
Mrs. H. J. Ringland, who is president
of the N.S.W. Braille Writers’ Associa-
tion and has been one of its guiding-
lights for the past four years, will give
a late-afternoon party at her Cremorne
home today ( Wednesday, August 14) for
her young blind friends, many of whom
are University students. The guests-of-
honor will be Queenslanders Mr. and
Mrs. David Williams, who with their
small son have come to Sydney to embark
for England. Mr. Williams lost his sight
in World War II and has since mastered
Braille, won his B.A. and M.A. at Bris-
bane University, and was recently
awarded a Gowrie Scholarship which will
enable him to pursue his post-graduate
studies abroad. Photo by Danvers.
The decorations for the Centenary Cele-
bration Ball of St. Vincent’s Hospital
were especially noteworthy, among the
prettiest this city has seen. Green birds-
of-paradise and peacocks seemed to
float across the ceiling among the airy
drapings of apple-green and white muslin,
while the foyer and the bandstand were
decorated with huge posters of Edwardian
ladies and gentlemen on pennyfarthing
bicycles. A couple of genuine p.-f.
bicycles were also to be seen in the foyer,
which had as its centrepiece a beautiful
model of the sailing-ship which brought
the first Sisters of Charity to Australia.
Mark Foy’s Hugh Macken (or perhaps
Hugh Macken’s Mark Foy’s) was respon-
sible for the ceiling-decorations, and the
students of East Sydney Technical College
for the foyer. A handclap for all.
The ball itself began a little slowly, but
became very lively and gay after the
laughter-provoking Glowworm Ballet
performed by 20 medical students (in pink
tu-tus), who had been trained by ball-
secretary Anne Meagher. President of
the committee Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere,
who received guests-of-honor Sir Kenneth
and Lady Street, wore a white sheath-
dress of re-embroidered lace, and deputy-
president Mrs. Sydney Albright wore an
American ballerina of champagne satin
and lace.
V # #
“Slap, slap, once a day with good hard
hitting” was advice given at a luncheon-
party during the week —no, it'was not
part of the Education Week campaign,
but a method of avoiding a double-chin.
The party was arranged by Mrs. Jan
Sopoushek to raise funds for a residential
for retarded children, and 75 ladies went
along to her Rose Bay home for the
luncheon and to hear a talk on how to
keep young-looking. It was agreed that
Mrs. Sopoushek made the most pertinent
contribution to the “double-chin talk”
when she asked; “But how soon is it too
late?”
☆ ft ft
At the launching of the appeal for
funds for the Opera House the Town
Hall was practically full, enthusiasm was
high, a beautiful concert was heard,
speeches were succinct, and £235,000 was
subscribed or promised. The artists were
Joan Hammond, violinist Ruggiero Ricci,
Elaine Shaffer with her golden flute, and
John Alden, who recited (or “spoke”) the
prologue from “Henry V”: “O for a muse
of fire,” etc. Many dropped their
“widow’s mites” into the boxes labelled
“anonymous donors,” but some did not
—they are probably considering donating
larger sums later. Premier J. J. Cahill
(who is president of the appeal-committee)
said that Australians had a reputation for
generosity, then added, “And all dona-
tions are tax-deductions.” So it seems as
though we will raise that 3F-million
pounds one way' or the other,
ft ft ft
The color this season seems to be lilac,
lavender or just plain mauve. There are
dresses, handbags, shoes, gloves all in
these tones, and already more than one
violet-covered toque has been sighted. It
will be interesting to see how popular
the color becomes —it is generally rather
hard to wear, and it is many, many years
since it captured the public taste.
☆ ft ft
Mrs. W. H. Harrington, a vice-presi-
dent of the Women’s Auxiliary for Dr.
Barnardo’s Homes, was hostess at Tresco
during the week when the auxiliary
organised a bridge-afternoon in aid of the
Homes. Lady Morshead and Lady
Berryman, also vice-presidents, with Mrs.
John Bates, an executive member, were
responsible for the organisation. The
next party for the Homes will be on
August 20, when Miss Margaret Jaye will
give a talk and demonstrate interior-
decorations at the Royal Empire Society
rooms. Hostesses on this occasion will be
Lady Berryman and Mrs. B. W. Pulver.
V & V
Something to look forward to, the gala
preview of the Phillip-street Theatre’s
new revue “Cross Sections” (something
to do with King’s Cross, apparently). It
is scheduled for September 11, and the
two-guineas each for the tickets wil/
benefit the Royal Blind Society via the
Black and White Ball committee. Mrs.
Neville Manning is the honorary-
secretary for the preview.


was a heavy competition on
the labor-market. Notwith-
standing the information in
their personal files, everyone
claimed to be an accomplished
cook.
Thus he had started a new
occupation, right from the
bottom: as a helping-hand,
peeling potatoes. Now, he
could say he was a self-made
man . . . And the Australians
were paying high for cooks,
especially when you took into
consideration that siily Over-
Disturbed in h.s reflections
by a change in the kitchen’s
atmosphere, which the subtle
sensitivity of a junior employee
registered so faultlessly, he
knew that the boss had arrived.
The strain of awaiting now
being over, he felt anger grow-
ing in its place. Who did the
chef think he was? Just another
migrant! For how long would
he have to stand his whims?
As before, the chef made
no comments while he stirred
the brew. The day was excep-
tionally hot; near the kitchen-
fires it was almost unbearable
The chef took out his hand-
kerchief to mop his face.
Observing such human
weakness, the cook was
relieved; maybe he could even
on
S P U P 0.K., yes?”
Breathing heavily, the chef
ga ™ h ™ » susp.cious *k»«:
Xh f' k fhe cook
JJj' on a
“ Y ou know in Europe me
being teacher.”
The chef at once relaxed. To
the cook’s immense surprise,
he grinned:
“Me, in Europe opera-
zinger.”
TN the pub, as round followed
-I- round of middies, the chef
explained. He had mistaken
the cook for the only culinary
expert in the team.
demolished and started again—
this time by a properly quali-
lied builder. The tender in his
case, too, seemed to be an
unduly low one.
Joining forces with him, we
followed his example and
sought political representation,
On September 17, 1956, we laid
before the member for Deakin
a formal protest, concluding
with a request thaf some investi-
gation be made into the opera-
tions of the War Service Homes
Division in Victoria.
He received us with courtesy
and promised to present our
Statement to the Minister for
National Development (Senator
Spooner). During the months
ahead, the member was to push
our case with the Utmost
I, ■_
tenacity in unfavorable cir-
cumstances. The War Service
Homes Division after all is
numes dnei ail, IS
Ollly a Small section of the
wide responsibilities entrusted
to the Minister. Moreover, the
Suez trouble was at its height.
Our own troubles rapidly
intensified. For we now
learned for the first time that
we would almost certainly be
called upon to provide addi-
tional money—£3oo at least—
for the completion of our home
under a fresh tender!
Frankly, we could not believe
it: the injustice in such a
demand seemed so patent. The
contract had been between the
Division and the builder—we
were permitted no share of the
real responsibility whatsoever,
Yet, at the moment things went
wrong, the onus for putting
things right again was passed
back to us. We felt that we
were being asked to foot the
bill for all those months of
procrastination and muddle,
We renewed our representa-
tions tp the Minister, taking as
our text:
Tlie entire reS p onBi „iiit y for the
present mess must rest upon the
w.s.h.d. in that—
<">
(i,) The w.s.h.d., despite
“accelerated priority,” did
not keep that builder con-
stantiy «» the job once he
had begun—and this at a
tlm « wben reasonably expedi-
tious construction is neces-
sary to keep pace with rising
costs.
required should also rest upon the
w.s.h.d.
It seemed fairly logical, and
we at that time had a simple
faith in the potency of reasoned
argument. At the centre of our
argument seemed to lie the
suspicion of slipshod super-
vision. By extension, slipshod
supervision might argue slip-
shod handling of the project as
a while.
Seeking further evidence, I
examined Hoodoo House more
narrowly in particular the
brickwork in the porch. Here
the steps had developed an
unusual wavy-bendy effect —
two sagged almost an inch at
the centre. I sent a few samples
of extruded mortar to the Vic-
torian State Laboratories. Their
analysis, revealing 92 per cent,
of sand and 4 per cent, of lime,
suggested that “the material
was originally primarily a lime-
sand mortar with little, if any,
cement.”
The W.S.H.D. specifications
stipulate “one part of approved
Portland cement to four parts
of clean, sharp sand.” We sub-
mitted this evidence of zealous
supervision to the Minister,
along with other details, such
as the complete absence of
dampeourses in the chimney.
This set things moving. On
November .14, 1956, the
Director of the War Service
Homes Division (Mr. Lucas)
was sent from Canberra to
investigate both our affair and
that of the R.A.A.F. man.
The Director gave us a
generous 90 minutes of his
time, listening to our argu-
ments with commendable for-
bearance. Of course, we missed
our cues and forgot many of
our carefully prepared points:
the diffident layman is ill-
equipped to cope with the big-
time official, veteran of a
thousand sticky interviews. Not
That he was there to be argued
with, I suppose, but to deliver
a judgment, namely:
1. Certain defective items would
be remedied without eost to appli-
cant. (After subsequent inspec-
tions 11 such items were listed—
about £l3O-worth in all. The brick
porch—condemned on sight by the
Director was demolished and
rebuilt. No decision seems to have
been made about an ugly skew in
the top section of the chimney.
There is also the matter of the
building-in of an entire wall
between kitchen and dinette,
though no such wall appears on
the plan.)
2. We would he obliged to pay
“the amount required in excess of
the balahce available under the
original contract.”
No admission of negligence
on the part of the Division’s
building supervisors, on the
basis of whose reports £2698
had been passed over to the
contractor! No explanation of
the mystic processes by which
we had suddenly become liable
to pay £320 14s. 6d. to clear up
someone else’s blundering!
It just was not good enough.
In a statement forwarded to
the Minister on December 1,
1956, we declined at some
length to accept the Director’s
decision as final.
The reply to this, though
conscientiously detailed, showed
some signs of irritation. The
Minister’s view remained un-
altered that the approvals given
by the Director were “generous
to Mr. Stephens.” It con-
cluded by suggesting that i n
Mr. Stephens’s own interest the
additional payment should now
be made.
As it happened, the addi-
tional payment had already
been made. The house, exposed
through its five wide-open
doorways to five months of
weather and vandalism, was
showing signs of deterioration
Our own nervous condition was
deteriorating, too. We felt that,
with the place finished and our
family installed, we would be
in a better position to carry on
the battle. Thanks mainly to
the splendid generosity of my
sister and of two of my col-
leagues in offering interest-free
loans, we managed to get
together the sum demanded of
us. In my final letter, therefore,
I could afford to do without
diplomatic periphrasis and be
a little more outspoken:
I want the Minister to clearly
understand that this payment
(£320) was made under protest, that
it by no means constitutes an
admission on my part of the right-
ness of the claims made by the
War Service Homes Division. To
quote from my letter of November
27 to the Deputy Director:
“Although I place on record here
my sentiment of deep and continu-
ing protest at having been loaded
at this late stage with this griev-
ously heavy burden of debt, 1 must
comply for the time being with the
Director’s decision. For our own
peace of mind and for our children’s
sake it is essential that our home be
completed as expeditiously as
possible.”
There are several points in the
Minister's letter upon which 1 must,
in fairness to myself, make some
comment.
First, speaking as one with a good
deal of respect for words and their
meaning, 1 must object to the use
in this context of the terms “gener-
ous” and “benefit of the doubt.”
There was no doubt whatsoever
about the structural defects so
strangely overlooked by the
Division's supervisors, and no
particular generosity in admitting
responsibility for these defects. In
admitting the shoddy workmanship
—though not, it must be noted, the
negligence of his subordinates in
having passed it for payment—the
Director was doing his appointed
duty; no more, no less. Within fairly
narrow limits, the Director acted
with reasonable fairness —I cannot
feel, however, that generosity enters
into the matter. n
The words “benefit of the doubt’
would seem to imply that the
Director, out of sheer magnanimity)
was doing us a gracious though
probably undeserved favor. I fi n( *
this reiterated phrase peculiarly
irritating.
All distracting details aside, how-
ever, the central issue of the case h
surely this: on August 29, 1956, with
the cancellation of the original con-
tract, there somehow occurred a
miraculous transfer of responsibility'
Before this date the entire responsi-
bility lay between the Division and


the contractor: we at this stage had
no real power to influence the
course of events one way or the
other. On August 29, the moment
things became embarrassing, a heavy
part of this responsibility was
hastily passed back to us.
To put it bluntly : during a period
ouite outside our area of control,
operations broke down. The bill for
repairs, £320 14s. 6d., was calmly
handed to us for payment.
This brings me to an astonishing
statement in the Minister’s letter:
“Applicants are aware that they
must meet additional costs in such
circumstances.” This particular
applicant was not aware. At no time
betore September, 1956, were we
given the slightest hint, either orally
or in writing, of any such obliga-
tion Had I been aware of this
and other relevant facts, it is doubt-
ful whether I would have taken the
risk of entering info an agreement
under such conditions. As 1 pointed
out in my original statement of
September 17, applicants tend to be
ieft in doubt about far too many
important matters.
At no time, moreover, have we
teen told upon what principle this
whole decision has been based. What
seems to us like a masterly conjuring
tiick may have a valid basis, if not
in common everyday justice, then in
what one may call departmental
justice. Somewhere, doubtless, there
is set down in black and white the
basic principle involved. If so, may
I. as a private citizen, have access to
this ruling?
Failing some such justification, the
Whole thing —I give this opinion in
all sincerity—must look unpleasantly
like an arbitrary departmental
decision.
Other comments appear in the
appendix to this letter. The above,
as 1 see it, are the fundamental
questions at issue. With all proper
respect, I maintain that these ques-
tions have not as yet been
satisfactorily answered.
These questions were asked
in perfect sincerity. I asked
them as a private citizen using
reasoned arguments, not as a
member of a group applying
pressure.
I feel that I, as a private
citizen, have a right to ask a
public man, entrusted by the
people with huge and perilous
responsibilities, to account for
his actions. I feel that if the
public man is permitted to
ignore the honest question, to
contemptuously decline to be
called to account, then our
democracy is in a bad way
indeed. For surely a prime
measure of a democracy's
soundness is to be found in
the degree of attention given
to the voice of the private
citizen—however insignificant.
(Platitudes but they need
restating.)
It would appear, however,
that my final protest, far from
reverberating with the sonorous
dignity of Dr. Johnson’s letter
to Lord Chesterfield, emerged
in the vasty halls of Canberra
as an impertinent squeak.
The reply to it was curt. The
Minister, it seemed, felt “that
Ho good purpose would be
served by pursuing the matter
along the lines advanced by
Mr. Stephens....”
No good purpose! This
muffled negative, apparently,
was to be our ultimate answer.
In exchange for the long
months of wearing anxiety, with
costs rising steadily and the
brightness falling irrevocably
from our modest dreams, with
a cruelly heavy debt unloaded
upon us out of the blue —we
had gained the interesting
knowledge that “no good
purpose would be served” by
giving a frank answer to a
justifiable question.
Had the reply been: “Our
decision in your case was based
upon departmental regulation
8X3927 —as for the rest, you
may go to blazes!” we would
have been almost satisfied. As
it is, our final answer boils
down to “You must pay up
because we say so.”
We are not obstinate people,
but we are not satisfied with
that answer.
Let it be made quite clear,
in conclusion, that I have no
notion of posing as a lone
crusader against the wicked
bureaucracy. We are not pro-
pagandists merely ordinary,
complacent, unpolitical tax-
payers who have been made
puzzled, not a little angry—and
very weary. Dramatic terms
like “the New Despotism” I
have done without —and this is
not in the nature of a /’ accuse.
I have pricked down no “guilty
men.”
On the contrary, I am will-
ing to believe that the majority
of War Service Homes Division
officials are diligent men,
genuinely Their best for
the ex-Serviceman. Any large
organisation, of course, has its
quota of loafers, muddlers, and
boors but many of the
W.S.H.D. men we encountered
seemed efficient and courteous.
As for the others, the gentle-
man who failed to acknowledge
my wife’s presence at an inter-
view, and later removed his
coat without apology, possibly
knew no better. The same may
apply to the counter-clerk who,
without arranging for a relief,
abruptly went off for his Christ-
mas shopping-leave, leaving
eight or nine applicants un-
attended for more than half-an-
hour. Most of those waiting
looked strained and tired, but
Bardia and Crete and Kokoda
happened a long time ago, and
he was a very young man.
Someone there muttered the old
Army crack about being
mucked about by experts. No
one sang the old dirge about
“the lousy lance-corporal from
Headquarters Staff.”
None of these applicants, it
should be noted, took on a
“So your toy saw WORKS —but never speak to a man
coming down a ladder.”
“Homes for Heroes” attitude —
certainly not my wife or myself,
Yet perhaps we may justly
claim that our families have
contributed a little more than
average to the nation’s welfare.
My wife’s brother died in air-
operations over Burma; my
own brother, one of a semi-
guerrilla group cut off from the
2/29th Battalion, died of beri-
beri somewhere in Malaya—
date unknown. My father, sue-
cumbing to a stroke upon the
shock of this news, passed the
last 10 years of his life as a
semi-paralysed invalid. My
iwo elder brothers enlisted with
the R.A.A.F.
I myself, having served with
the 2/6th Battalion in the
Middle East and the Wau-
Salamaua campaign in New
Guinea, was discharged medi-
cally unfit after nine months
in 114 A.G.H. at Goulburn.
Offered a pension, I declined:
we have never felt that the
community owed us a living,
All in all, we have been reason-
ably good citizens. Yet, exer-
cising a citizen’s right to call
upon men in office to account
for their decisions, we receive
an almost contemptuous snub,
We can only ask in bewilder-
ment: “What have we done to
deserve this?”
Perhaps my story is unique:
I may be speaking for myself
alone. For our country’s sake,
it is to be hoped so. On the
other hand it may be, to echo
the words of a responsible
R.S.L. official, that cases like
mine are “unfortunately not
uncommon.” If so, I speak for
my former comrades as well.


one major creative artist, the one
world-figure who has so far adorned
the Australian culture, only to attack
him. “Good Lord,” said Norman
Lindsay to me once in amused
exasperation when some previous
young hero had had a crack at him,
“I’ve had generations of them —trying
to brain me with their feeding-bottles.”
Not, I should hasten to add, that
Buckley is so naive as all that. There
is a good deal of substance in his
argument that anybody who adopted
Norman Lindsay’s private and personal
mythology, as Slessor did in one or two
of his early poems, was running into
peril: as is any writer who borrows
someone else’s vision instead of being
true to his own. All “movements,”
except for the movers, are bad. But
it should always be possible to make
the distinction that what was not right
for his followers- was nevertheless right
for Lindsay himself.
And as for Buckley’s attack on his
“vitalism”—we may not all have
Lindsay’s vision of sex as the central
mystery of life; but, except for sex,
none of us would have been born to
argue with him.
I think, again, that Buckley, as his
viewpoint broadens, will regret having
described Hugh McCrae’s most glorious
lyric ending with
I am the lord,
I am the lord
Of everything!
as “McCrae’s inane shout.” Surely this
is the high note of joy, of spiritual
pride and triumph, to which all art
aspires. But rather than discuss this
point in detail I would be more
interested to debate whether IV cCrae’s
poem, as Slessor said lately in
“Southerly,” is imperfect in one detail
—the use of the conventional adjective
in “bite my dryad’s splendid knees”—
or whether it is not, as I have
suggested to Slessor, entirely perfect
because McCrae is using “splendid” in
its original sense of “splendens,”
“shining.”
Then, too, there is Buckley’s attack
on “The Bulletin” and “the new
‘Bulletin’ school.” Any “Bulletin”
writer's comments on this must, of
course, be suspect; but I thought the
article shallow and ill-considered when
I first saw it in some little magazine
or other, and I am surprised that
Buckley thought it worth including,
unrevised, in his book.
If I remember rightly, the small
poem on which he bases his attack
was not published in “The Bulletin,”
but I pass that by.
Attacking “The Bulletin,” briefly,,
for publishing too many outback-
poems and Nature-poems and thereby
setting up a new school of poetical
successors to the balladists (doubtless
a very wicked thing to do), he appears
to have, up to a point, a case: not so
much because there really is anything
very much wrong with these poems, the
best of which need no defence, but
because it would certainly be wrong for
this paper to publish only one kind of
verse. But Buckley is able to make out
his case only by ignoring the fact
that most of the major efforts
in recent Australian poetry such as
Fitz Gerald’s “Heemskirck Shoals” and
“Fifth Day” and Francis Webb’s “Ben
Boyd” and “Leichhardt”—poems quite
distinct from the type of verse Buckley
has in mind—as well as almost the
entire set of Rosemary Dobson’s
poems on medieval religious paintings
have also been published in “The
Bulletin.” How “The Bulletin” is still
further to broaden its range by pub-
lishing, say, the poems of Vincent
Buckley, which have been submitted
only to other magazines, I do not
know. The remedy lies with Buckley.
All these errors and excesses spring
from the one source: Buckley’s belief,
repeated throughout his essays, that
“nativism” in Australia has become “an
anachronism” and that “a more
integral and a more Christian human-
ism is beginning to supplant the
humanism centred on a bushman hero.”
It is this outlook which makes him, in
his otherwise well-balanced and
extremely sensitive essays, much too
cool in his studies of Slessor and Fitz-
Gerald, and rather too warm in his
appreciations of A. D. Hope and James
McAuley, whom he sees as champions
of the new order. His final conclusions
on Slessor and Fitz Gerald are very
much open to question and woul4
better have been left for time to
determine.
The merits of Hope and McAuley
are unquestionable; nor does Buckley
spare them the most searching criticism;
but I should think that nobody would
be more embarrassed than Hope him-
self when Buckley in one tremendous
breath compares him with Swift, Blake
and Yeats and (after remarking himself
that critics have overpraised Slessor
and Fitz Gerald) guilelessly observes
that Hope is “teaching us, in his own
way, the lesson which Shelley and
Coleridge, for example, unhappily
failed to learn.”
It would be idle to dispute with
Buckley that Hope and McAuley are
“part of a new and necessary tradition
in Australian poetry.” The arts will
never stop still; all modes of poetry
must eventually be practised in this
country —where, indeed, we have the
enormous advantage that they can all
be done freshly. But I feel that,
scrupulous though he is to give the
appearance of justice, Buckley is
biased towards this new movement and,
in the light of it, devalues the achieve-
ments of the past, confuses the prob-
lems of the present and circumscribe'!
the future.
It would be easy to retort, when he
suggests that David Campbell’s stock,
men are anachronistic, that religious
and “classical” poetry are even more
so in contemporary Australia. But we
still have stockmen; and we still have
religious belief; both modes are equally
valid. Technically, there will always
be the rhythms of life in- poetry,
alternating with the metres of “classh
cism.” Each corrects the other; both
have their value; the ideal is a blending
of the two.
And finally, if one admits that “our
poetry gives little hint of the meta-
physical vision of the European or
Asian past,” I do not myself look
forward with any particular eagerness
to a future when it shall confine itself
to “the spiritual convulsions which are
at the moment agonising every society
and burning beneath our own.”
Spiritual convulsions are all very well,
but there is also joy.
I find Buckley's definition of poetry
flawless; it “deals with man at a meta-
physical level reflected in his actual
state, localised in his actual physical
surroundings, embodied in his sensuous
and spiritual reactions to his world”;
but I also find him, on the whole, too
anxious to hurry away (into his
personal choice of metaphysics) from
man’s actual state and physical
surroundings: which, for man in
Australia, are —Australia.
But the important thing about
“Essays in Poetry” is that, though you
may disagree in part with Buckley’s
viewpoint and from time to time find
him extravagant, on the whole he may
be read with rare pleasure. This is
because when he is not propaganding
for his “new Christian humanism” and
allowing his prejudices to cloud his
intuitive response to poetry, he
is a very sound critic indeed. Dealing,
besides the subjects already mentioned,
with “The Poetry of Judith Wright.”
“Contemporary Left - wing Poets.”
“Thirty Years of Technique” and
“Poetry and the New Christians,” he
is grave, thoughtful, illuminating
and uncompromisingly honest. In fact,
if it were not for the necessity of
disagreeing with him, a review could
well be written consisting almost
entirely of quotations of his exactitudes.
Douglas Stewart.
Mary Gilmore's Record
Having made records one way and
another all her life, Mary Gilmore has
now made another: by speaking,
shortly after her 91st birthday, fourteen
of her poems for the Recording Society
of Australia, which have been
made into a microgroove disk for sale
to the public and must constitute the
first time in history such a venture has


Book buying is easy at G RAH AM E’S
If you enjoy browsing, when you buy books, you should pay us a visit
because we have books by the thousands, on all subjects, arranged for
quick reference and handy selection.
If you prefer to discuss your book requirements, whether they be books
for leisure, books for study or books for gifts, our trained assistants will
be pleased to help.
If unable to call our Mail Order section is at your service. Mail orders
and magazine subscriptions receive prompt attention.
i
THE GRAHAME BOOK CO.
Pty. Ltd. Cnr. Elizabeth Street and
' I'; Martin Place, Sydney. 8W2261
BOOKS -
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
L.P. RECORDS
MUSIC
been attempted by an Australian poet.
The other “Brolga” record made by
the same society was of Kenneth
Slessor’s and Brennan’s poems, but
these were not spoken by the poets . . .
which in Brennan’s case would have
been difficult.
Dame Mary’s selection of her poems
—though one hesitates to complain
when it includes her tributes to “The
Bulletin” and to Norman Lindsay—is
not uniformly of her best work. The
emphasis is on pathos, as in “Killed
in the Street,” rather than on that
resolute affirmation of life for which
this reviewer most values her. But it
includes her lovely “The Shepherd”
and it does illustrate the general range
of her work; and to have the poet
speaking it herself is of inestimable
value.
There are no histrionics in Mary
Gilmore’s speaking. She takes it
quietly. But she makes it clear,
musical and moving. This record and
others which the society is planning—
A. D. Hope is to be the next; it is not
quite clear whether Judith Wright is
to speak of her own verse in the
planned “Selection”—should do much
to improve the verse-speaking styles of
the A.B.C.’s poetry-readers, who,
invaluable as the sessions are, too
often seem to make one or the other
of two mistakes: either to read so
much “in character” that the rhyme
and rhythm are smothered or else to
go up and down, up and down, like
William Hart-Smith’s seagulls, in a
false, parsonical tone of voice such as
no poet would ever use himself. Poetry
is natural speech heightened into
rhythm, and the best way to establish
a natural style is to get it from, at least
in the first instance, the poets them-
selves.
Indeed it is very much to be hoped
that the A.B.C. will broadcast these
records, or else on their own account
make live broadcasts of the poets read-
ing their own works. It should be a
feature that could be tried on television
as well as in ordinary broadcasting.
But of course the value of a record
such as this of Mary Gilmore’s is that
schools, universities and private
citizens do not have to wait for a
broadcasting timetable but can play
it when they want to. The only fault
to be found with the record is that
there should have been a longer
interval between the poems.
The disk’s wrapper has an admirable
introduction to Mary Gilmore’s poetry
by Robert D. Fitz Gerald: “Her poems
are of what she sees and knows; but
they reflect profundities. Their under-
lying energy expands towards the great
self-renewing energies of the earth; as
if they are always aware of the march
of galaxies though they may do no
more than point out the simple flight
of a bird.”
The record has been made with the
aid of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund. Inquiries and membership
applications should be made to the
Recording Society at G.P.0., Box 572,
Sydney.
Reviewed Briefly
Tessa to the Rescue: Lady Kitty
Ritson (Nelson). Tessa has just come
home to England from South Africa
and, at her father’s rest-home for
horses, finds that her own filly has gone
mad and nobody can ride it—an error,
because her friend Marie and her
cousin Larry both contrive to. Tessa,
besides coping with this problem, helps
to cure a sick horse. Any child who
loves horses will enjoy it.
* * * «
The Dramatic Universe: J. G.
Bennett (Hodder and Stoughton). This
immense and learned book is the first
of two volumes in which Mr. Bennett
proposes—to put it briefly—to explain
the universe. The present volume,
though full enough of speculation, is
chiefly concerned with scientific
facts; the second is to deal with ethics
and theology. The core of Mr.
Bennett’s mathematics is in the chapter
in which he discusses a six-dimensional
universe; the core of his philosophy in
his assertion that men suffer from
“eternity-blindness” and in his belief
that “It is no longer possible to seek
for the satisfaction of ultimate human
needs, either by the way of knowledge
or by the way of faith as such ways
have been followed in the past”; and
the whole is a development from
Gurdjieff’s doctrine of Reciprocal
Maintenance. Those who can face its
difficulties of scientific and philo-
sophical terminology will find it
extremely interesting.
* * * *
Flying Saucer Conspiracy: Donald
E. Keyhoe (Hutchinson). The author,
who is a retired U.S. Marine Corps
pilot and formerly an aide to Colonel
Lindbergh, is the author of “Flying
Saucers from Outer Space/’ He is
considerably troubled about the alleged
U.S. censorship on all saucers; about
an alleged U.S. plan to shoot projectiles
at Mars and the moon (which would
annoy the inhabitants); and about the
possibility that the saucers which, he
says, have continually been colliding
with U.S. planes, may have turned
hostile. He also says that saucers over
London wrote the letters Z and U on
the sky (as somebody has written W
on Mars); but he does not here drop
to the obvious conclusion that the
saucers were trying to explain that they
had come from the zoo. As to the W
on Mars, it is clearly—though Major
Keyhoe doesn’t say so—short for
W.C.; and therefore very cheering news
for intending space-travellers.
* * * *
It seems a little odd to see so slight
a pair of works as Jerome K. Jerome’s
Three Men in a Boat and Three Men
on the Bummel in a new (single-vol.)
Everyman’s reprint; but, slight or not,
there is great charm in them, and they
are still exceedingly funny. A useful
little introduction by D. C. Browning
tells us that Jerome (his middle name
was Klapka, after a Hungarian general
who was a friend of the family) didn’t
plan “Three Men in a Boat” as a funny
book but as a serious historical and
topographical account of the Thames;
but the editor of “Home Chimes,”
where it first ran as a serial, liked the
humor so well that, very wisely, he cut
out all the serious information. Since
then, of course, it has never failed to
ring the bell.


Another
Record Year
City Mutual policyholders benefit
directly from the most successful
year in the Society’s history. A
Record Surplus for 1956 of
£1,370,000 has made it possible
to again increase reserves sub-
stantially and to increase the
rates of bonuses for the fifth time
in six years.
Assets now exceed £35,000,000.
No
Shareholders
All profits belong to the Policyholders
SAVE INCOME TAX
Don’t pay away in incpme tax, money that could be
securing the assurance benefits you need. Remember,
you can pay up to £3OO yearly in premiums and
deduct it from your income tax return. By this means,
a proportion of your investment in assurance is
actually paid for you.
TO MEN OF PROPERTY
Who want their heirs to inherit it
How often do you hear of estates being sold to pay
death duties? It can happen to you. Death duties must
be paid in cash before your heirs can inherit. The City
Mutual Life has a policy to provide this cash so that
your.assets go unencumbered to your heirs. For further
information, write, ’phone or call the nearest officd of
the Society.
The
CITY MUTUAL LIFE
Incorporated in NS. W. iBjB
HEAD OFFICES:
N.S.W.: City Mutual Building, 60-66 Hunter Street, Sydney
Telephone: BW 2021
Q'land: City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street, Brisbane
Telephone: FA 2371
W.A.: City Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
Telephone: BF 1451
Vic.: City Mutual Building, 459 Collins Street, Melbourne
Telephone: MB 2561
S.A.: City Mutual Building, 113 King William St., Adelaide
Telephone: LA 4831
Tos.: City Mutual Building, 22 Elizabeth Street, Hobart
Telephone: B 2504
