

&
m
I
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
A Norman Lindsay Feature
Wednesday, June 5, 1957
Price l/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in, Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THERE is justifiable pride in the voice of an Ulsterman when
he speaks of Belfast, the capital of Northern Ireland, for it is
a city which has many impressive features; not least of which is its
splendid situation on the banks of the River Lagan at the head
of Belfast Lough. It is overlooked by hills which have that soft
and green quality which characterizes so'much of Northern Ireland's
scenery.
Here are to be seen many examples of the commercial enter-
prise of the citizens of Belfast in the numerous factories connected
with the linen trade, aircraft industry, rope-making,, tobacco and
whisky, iron foundries and ship-building. Belfast’s ship building
yards are world-famous, for in them are built ships of all shapes
and sizes—from oil tankers to the most luxurious liners.
The superiority of Belfast linen was established in the seven-
teenth century through the introduction of new and improved
methods by the many French Huguenots, who found refuge in
Northern Ireland. Yet in spite of all this industrial activity, the
city still retains the beauty of its natural setting, almost surrounded
by its wooded and heather-clad hills.
It is a city with many fine architectural features which include
the City Hall, the Queen’s University, the Museum and Art Gallery,
to mention but a few. Among the many monuments which grace
the city is the Albert Memorial, illustrated here. This lofty clock
towter, which stands at the bottom of the High Street, is known
affectionately as The Albert and commemorates the Prince Consort.
His statue stands on the column which is 140 feet high. The
monument owes ils origin to Mr. John Lytle, a former Lord Mayor
of Belfast. The voice of the great bell which marks the passing
hours can be heard above the noise ol the busy shipyards.
No. 352: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
THE ALBERT MEMORIAL, BELFAST, NTN. IRELAND


BE A
SUCCESSFUL
WRITER!
If YOU have the urge to Write and a love
for expressing yourself in words, you can learn
to write Successful Short Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse, etc.
“During the past six months my Acceptances
have returned me over £2oo.’*
“I am pleased to report further Successes since
Les. 10. This makes £53 in hand with more
to come.”
“I list hereunder my Acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“My earnings from my Writing total almost
£70.” .
“I very much enjoyed my Freelance Journalism
study and more than paid for the Course with
Articles accepted.”
“During the Course I sold five Stories, which
more than paid for my fees.”
IKMfI
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sj'dne.v ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
——— CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON ———
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME .
ADDRESS
(S.B. 1157) AGE
BOOKHUNTER. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
TWO PLAYS
Miss Enid Bagnold can hardly ever
have expected to find herself keeping
company with Aristophanes ; but her
play The Chalk Garden (Heinemann)
happens to have arrived in the post
simultaneously with Dudley Fitts’s
translation of The Frogs (Faber), and
reviewers must take the world—and
the theatre —as they find them.
The world and the theatre are lucky
to have seen Miss Bagnold’s play at all,
for it had to be produced in New York
before the London theatre-managers
would look at it, and even to get it on
in New York took, so the dedication
and foreword tells us, two years of
dynamite or dynamism from Mrs. Irene
Mayer Selznick, topping-off thirty
years of devoted agency by Harold
Freedman though presumably Mr.
Freedman wasn’t thirty years trying
to sell this play.
When it did get to London there was
a chorus of the highest praise, marred
only by a plaintive note from the
“Spectator” critic, quofed on the dust-
jacket: “I’m afraid I don’t like this
kind of thing .... Is it art? Is it
entertainment?” Kenneth Tynan said
in the “Observer”:—
.... may well be the finest artificial
comedy to have flowed from an
English (as opposed to an Irish) pen
since the death of Congreve.
Which is praise exalted enough ; and,
were it wholly valid, a complete justifi-
cation for considering it in company
with the immortal comedy of Aristo-
phanes. It is, indeed—alarming as it is
to say so—a great deal funnier to read
than “The Frogs” ; and a great deal
richer, too, in its construction of a full-
bodied stage-entertainment.
For the present commentator is in a
minority of one (if need be) in total
opposition to “The Frogs” as any kind
of living stage-piece ; and, except for
curiosity, always finds it a bore even to
read . . . “I’m afraid I don’t like this
kind of thing. Is it art? Is it enter-
tainment?”
In its day it may have been both.
But as a satire on the contrasting
dramatic styles of Aeschylus and
Euripides, with a special corrosive for
the greater playwright, Euripides, it is
extraordinarily remote from any vital
interests of today ; and though Mr.
Fitts says in his introduction that it
“transcends topicality and fun and may
even have a meaning for our own day,”
the question remains: what meaning?
Mr. Fitts has heroically tried to
reanimate it by using a few quotations
from English writers —Eliot and Keats
and others—where Aristophanes would
have used quotations from the Greeks ;
but this does not really do anything
except to make the remote confusing.
The only way in which it could really
be made to live again would be entirely
to modernise it by substituting for
Aeschylus and Euripides two such con-
trasting dramatists as, say, Shaw and'
Eliot ... It would be a wjcked thing
to do. no doubt, but not much worse
than the liberties which contemporary
English and French dramatists have
taken with some of the other Greek
masters.
However, like it or not, here the play
is in a lively, very free translation ; and
at least the frogs still say “Brekekekex
koax koax” in it —the one moment
when, across all the years, Aristo-
phanes comes alive again and, in his
Athenian swamp, we meet him.
Nature outlasts topicalities.
A great deal of Miss Bagnold’s
charm, too, comes out of Nature: not
a swamp, but the chalk-garden of the
title where Mrs. St. Maugham, the
grand-dame (of course she was played
by Edith Evans), tries to grow all the
wrong sorts of plants and is corrected
by the mysterious Miss Madrigal,
formerly a murderess (and a gift for
Peggy Ashcroft, who made such a
success of Hedda Gabler).
In this English rustic setting it is a
comedy about an outrageous “problem-
child,” Laurel, who claims to have been
ravished in Hyde Park at the age of
twelve ; who really is merely objecting
to her mother’s second marriage ; and
who entertains herself (and the
audience) by lighting bonfires, trying to
probe the past history of her governess
and generally plaguing everybody.
It is a very fine play indeed ; charm-
ing and amusing ; but . . . Congreve?
It doesn’t quite touch reality ; nor
has it the high polish of artificial
comedy ; but seems to fall somewhere
in between. Even if o-ne does very
much like this kind of thing, and has
no doubt whatever that it is entertain-
ing, the awful question remains, “Is it
art?” Perhaps to decide that point we
shall have to wait two thousand years
and see if some new Dudley Fitts thinks
it worth translating into Greek.
Banned in South Africa
A list of 2000 books banned in South
Africa has been sent to “The Bulletin”
by Mr. Hugh Morrison, of Mays
Landing, New Jersey, U.S.A. There
was, as it happens, no need for the list
to take such a roundabout journey to
Australia, for the South Africans, here
admirably different from ourselves, do
their banning openly, in an official
Government gazette, and anyone can
instantly find out what he is not
allowed to read. Still, it is a lively
document, and one is grateful for the
opportunity of perusing it.
On the whole, it is like most lists of
banned books. There are certain
subjects which, rightly or wrongly,
disturb the responsible officials in most
civilised countries Passion, for
example; and Sin; and all that —and
one is hardly surprised that South
Africa has put its foot down on such
titles as: —*
Passion Has Red Lips, by R. R.
McCollum ; Passion in the Dust, by
Paul Evan Lehman; Passionate
Fool, by John A. Morose;
Passionate Lover, by Gail Jordan ;
Passionate Princess, by Jack Wood-
ford ; The Passionate Prude, by
Andre Latour, and Passion’s Play-
thing, by Roland Vane.
Indeed it seems surprising that
authors keep on using such perilous
keywords in the titles: except, of
course, that that is probably how,
when they are not banned, they sell
them. South Africa has also got a
down on Babies (Baby, You Slay Me,
by Chet Defoe); on Black (black
magic, black orchids, etc.); on Beauty
(Beautiful Body, by Wright Williams,
The Beautiful Frame, by William
Pearson); and, of course, Blondes
(Blonde on Ice, by A 1 Bocca; Blonde
Temptress, by Gordon Semple, etc.).
Rather surprisingly, there seems to
be no objection to Beds, only Norman
Robson’s Bedtime at Eleven coming
into this suspicious category. But
Call-girls and Curves, Desire and
Deserts, Ladies and Love (Lady
Godiva and Master Tom, by Raoul C.
Faure; Love in a Junk and Other
Exotic Tales, translated by Harold
{Continued on page 58)


I £6O a »noi|«j s
BOX 2712, G.P.©
m
i
“Cameron” brogue with
heavy punching. Double-
decker soles and heels.
Tan or black calf. 135/-.
For the casual approach to the well~groomed look, choose
It’s a man’s shoe in every sense of
the word . . . styled in Kilmarnock
and craftsman-built of Australia’s
finest leathers. It’s Saxone
for comfort and lasting good looks.
All in 'Fractional Fittings.
Men’s Wear Centre, George Street.
'.W
mt
“Macgregor” calf derby
with double-decker leather
soles and heels. Tan or
black calf. Priced 135/-
“■Esquire” lightweight
dress or business cap ox-
ford. In tan or black calf.
Priced at only 112/6.
“Golfmaster” raised mocc
derby. Notched storm welt.
Moulded rubber golf soles
and heels. Price, 126/-.
“ Fleetstreeter ” banded
vamp derby, flexible
leather soles. Tan, black,
or shrunken grain. 126/-.
OPEN A BUDGET ACCOUNT AT ANTHONY HORDERNS 9 FOR NON - STOP CREDIT


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4034
Wednesday, June 5, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
LEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens and: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings (.o-pposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
HOME TO ROOST
THE effect of United States post-war
policy in foreign affairs, as developed
under the Dulles regime, is now
coming home to roost, and promises
to be a very embarrassing type of bird
for Washington to have about the place.
President Franklin Roosevelt and his
successors played the Russian “anti-
colonial” game to the limit, and their
policies were mainly responsible for
the loss of China by Chiang Kai-shek,
and of India and some colonies by the
United Kingdom at times when the
concession of self-government was
made to look like the result of joint
pressures by the U.S. and the U.S.S.R.
exerted through the United Nations.
The Dutch and French lost Asian
colonies in the same atmosphere.
Because of a naive or disingenuous
attitude of self-righteousness on the
part of the State Department, it has
been compelled to give lip-service to
the “freedom movements” which Mos-
cow has been most anxious to promote
in the interests of world-revolution. At
the same time the U.S. has indulged
in interferences parallel to that which
it has always condemned in Britain,
and generated the suspicion that what
it is really engaged in is a battle for
world-domination with the Russians.
Much of its attitude probably comes
from a starry-eyed missionary spirit,
though unkind people have always
been able to detect an air of envy of
the British in the American attitude.
Whatever the motive power behind its
policies, they have not produced healthy
results; only vacuums which Washing-
ton has obviously intended to fill with
its own ingredients, but which have
resisted at the crucial point the process
of being filled.
For example, within its own sphere
covered by the Monroe Doctrine, there
has been the Organisation of American
States perfected in 1948 after nearly
60 years of talking. This was a typical
Washington conception designed to
assemble all the American “republics”
under Uncle Sam’s downy wing “on a
basis of absolute equality,” but
dominated by the U.S. through a Treaty
of Reciprocal Assistance.
Washington has used the members
of this body as its spearhead in the
United Nations, and whenever it has
wanted to have anything done to a
valued ally among the great Powers
the moral gorge of one or two of the
smaller entities among the “absolute
equals” has risen and made action
possible.
This was the case when the British
and French used what the American
press and the bright young men of
Washington described as “gunboat
diplomacy” against the Egyptians. But
the South American gorge did
not rise when Uncle Sam recently
used not gunboat diplomacy but Sixth
Fleet rocket - armed - giant - aircraft -
carrier diplomacy to quieten-down the
Jordan disturbances and frighten-off
the Red vultures.
No less than three “absolute equals”
of the U.S. in the Organisation of
American States and Inter-American
Cultural Council—Cuba, Haiti and
Colombia—have had sordid little
revolutions with characteristic hangings
by the roadside and Presidential flights-
by-night since they demonstrated their
adherence to Washington principles of
democracy, accompanied by an
abhorrent renunciation of force as a
settler of disputes, last November and
December.
Two others have been engaged in a
war which is more like the scuffling
of a couple of bandit gangs. In the
sphere of the Monroe Doctrine,
Washington’s missionary influence does
not seem to have achieved much.
In the Far East it has achieved even
less. Its relationship with Japan,
which it supposedly conducted to the
altar of democracy during the Occupa-
tion —in which it had free rein for its
operations, since it tolerated no rivals
—is disturbed, and the trends suggest
a very definite movement in Japanese
policy towards ignoring U.S. prejudices,
even while there are still American
troops on Japanese soil. There is
growing disturbance in the Ryuku
area, where America has established
its main defensive fortress, accom-
panied only recently by the election to
high municipal office of one of the most
prominent Leftists in the islands.
In South Korea the atmosphere,
despite huge inpouring of dollars, is
becoming less and less friendly to
American policy and, incidentally,
more openly hostile to Japan. The
outburst of anti-American feeling in
Taipeh, the capital of Formosa,
following the freeing of a U.S. sergeant
who had shot a Chinese whom he
accused of attacking him with a stick
when he discovered him peeping at his
wife in a bath, represents more than
an incident based on suddenly
generated mob-anger.
The New York “World Telegram”
complains, in discussing events in
Formosa, that “few places have had
more American dollars yet the
American Embassy there is sacked.”
It mentions similar disturbances in
Korea and Japan, but it says nothing
of Germany and Italy, where feeling
is strong but has not overflowed to
the same extent.
It sees as the reasons for the
Formosan outburst the facts that there
are two Americans there doing the
work of one, presenting to the ever-
toiling locals a spectacle of luxury and
loaf, accompanied by the condition
that “too often Americans abroad
demand and get special privileges
which are only the old, evil extra-
territorial rights the United States did
so much to end in China.”
The same applies wherever U.S.
do-gooder bodies are set down for the
relief of foreign lands.
The final clincher in U.S. humilia-
tion after its fine display of moral
indignation about British “aggression”
and “colonialism” in Asia, the Middle
East and Africa is the outburst of ex-
President Romulo of the Philippines,
inducted through U.S. influence as first
president from the Orient of the United
Nations.
Mr. Romulo said that the U.S.A.
failed to respect the sovereignty of
Eastern nations, and “resentment was
spreading evetywhere that the United
States had military bases in the Far
East.”
No country has warmer feelings for
the United States than Australia or a
greater wish to be on the closest terms,
diplomatic, defensive and commercial,
with the Americans. But this does not
exclude it from the right to criticise,
with sorrow—and with alarm, since
what the United States does as the
self-appointed champion of Western
civilisation represents the Western view
in Asian eyes—actions which are
dividing the Western world, driving the
Eastern nations towards the Com-
munist camp and endangering our
safety and that of Europe by playing
into the hands of Russia and weaken-
ing the strength of the United Kingdom
and British Commonwealth.
Recent developments make it more
and more a necessity that the British
Commonwealth white nations should
tighten their bonds and co-operate
more closely to influence world policy
and to exploit their enormous latent
resources in common.
The Prime Ministers’ Conference in
London has a ripe chance to begin the
good work.


"CHICKEN!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Killing the R.A.N.
Rear-Admiral Harrington’s regrets for
the end of the Naval National Training
scheme should be understandable by all.
Naval training is about the finest train-
ing possible for a handy-man of war. It
is especially valuable for modern war-
fare in that it is now a highly mechanised
life and is linked with air-training and
its techniques.
Despite all the talk, as Admiral
Harrington declares, “we are not yet in
the guided-missile era.” And atomic
weapons are at such a stage that they
are elephantine in nature and so cumber-
some to handle that they are still some
distance away from effective common
usage as weapons of surprise.
Indeed, the most effective gun-
platforms from which surprise is possible
are ships ; for, in view of the vastness
of the sea and the factors which inter-
fere with radar accuracy, especially over
long distances, ships, or even fleets, are
not as conspicuous objects in the spread
of the ocean as, say, aircraft over
populated land or approaching it. Even
with guided-missiles at perfection for
use over long ranges, the ship, in Aus-
tralia’s case, is the greatest risk-weapon
we have to face, especially if the ship
happens to be a submarine.
“Pearl Harbors” are particularly
possible in Australia in the event of war,
and a wide and properly equipped sea-
patrol, equipped for watching the area
of sea which lies off our east coast in a
belt 1500 miles wide, is particularly
necessary.
However, Canberra apparently fails to
see the differences between Australia’s
problem and the problem of present-day
Britain, with its overseas responsibilities
dwindling and crammed up against the
Continent, but under the shelter of a
huge U.S. Navy apart from its own. And
it is following the British policy of
reducing the R.A.N. gradually to a
skeleton.
Strangely enough, the two nations with
the most devotion to the atomic theory
of total war don’t think like that. Russia
is building-up its navy at a rate without
parallel in the world’s history—dozens
of cruisers, hundreds of submarines. And
the United States is not lagging behind.
The "Perks" Grab
[From Canberra]
What a lot of running for cover has
followed the Federal M.P.s’ “perks” grab!
Back home in their electorates, back-
benchers one after another are claiming
the decision to give them another 235. 6d.
a day while in Canberra came as a com-
plete shock. Yet not one <?f these sur-
prised gentlemen has offered to hand over
his share of the boodle to charity or
refused to accept it.
Labor M.P.s seem to be in even more
trouble than their Government col-
leagues. Three Victorians—Senator
Donald Cameron, Mr. Ted Holt (Dare-
bin) and Mr. Ted Peters (Scullin) —had
it rammed home to them at a pensioners’
meeting that M.P.s were feathering their
nests while the aged received a bare sub-
sistence. But, hard-up as the pensioners
may be, not one Labor M.P. (and they
are the self-appointed spokesmen for the
pensioners) has made tbe gesture of
offering to pass on his increased allowance
to a pensioners’ fund. Senator Cameron
was one of the most trenchant critics of
the rise.
Out of the Pioneer Age
The most heartening fact about the
development of Australia is not merely
that wealth and population are increasing,
but that the development is spread over
most of the continent.
Within this year have come appraise-
ments of the immense bauxite deposits of
the Cape York Peninsula and the mineral
deposits of the n.-w. of Queensland and
of the N.T., which are beginning to result
in the provision of water-supply dams on
a scale which would have been thought
impossible even 15 years ago. Explora-
tion is being intensified in the mineral
belts of the north and being pushed out
into New Guinea.
In the N.T. the cultivation of rice may
begin a new era, though there are still
seasoned Territorians and others who
have their doubts.
New Guinea is almost an untouched
land, but the chances of producing the
British Commonwealth’s needs in tea and
cocoa are being tried out, and the big
metal corporations are at last turning their
attention to these vital islands.
On the Queensland North Coast, made
prosperous by sugar and ports dealing
in overseas freight, the beginning of a
new industrial age stems from the open-
ing of the first great northern hydro-
electric plant, built at the 1500 ft. Tully
Falls. This, when complete, will feed
power to the towns and cities in 42,000
square miles of rich country. By the
end of the year four generating-sets will
be delivering 72,000 kw.h., from plant of
which the capital cost will be in the
region of £16,000,000.
Between there and the southern
extremity of the Commonwealth electric
pylons are being pushed out through
much productive land, though the greatest
electrical generation potentialities are, so
to speak, at “the bottom of the mine” in
Tasmania.
It is estimated that the potential power
which can be developed from Australian
streams is about 7,000,000 kilowatts and
that about a third of this is generatable
in Tasmania, which now produces 545,000
kilowatts a year, and is sflll on the short
side of its current-needs by about a
quarter of a million kw.
The improvement of millions of acres
of rough land into good grazing or
agricultural land is revolutionising the
face of Australia. The scheme organised
by the Chase group of California at
Esperance Bay (W.A.) is a case in point.
The group has brought 1,500,000 acres
at Esperance from the Westralian Govern-
ment and is cutting it up into farms of
from 1000 to 10,000 acres, on which, in
a 16-24 in. rainfall country, it is pro-
posed in the future to raise beef for the
United States market in a few years’
time.
There, as all round the continent, Aus-
tralia is moving on from the pioneer age.
Published Suspicion
An extremely unpleasant reminder of the
increasingly bold emergence of the face-
less accuser is offered by the appearance
of an advertisement in the Melbourne
“Sun” by B. A. Alexander, who is manag-
ing-director of Alexander’s Clothing
Stores, a multiple-shop outfit of repute
and long-standing in the Melbourne
suburbs.
Mr. Alexander was among a number
named in an official report by the Taxa-
tion Department as having been suspected
of “defrauding” the department. The
unsuspecting reader of this list of names
naturally would assume that fraud had
been admitted in some form or other, and
that the department was on high moral
and legal ground in making the accusation.
The advertisement, however, indicates
that the taxpayer has been held up to
public obloquy most unfairly.
He claims the department’s investigation
into his business affairs was described as
“routine”; that it developed into
a difference of opinion on whether certain
receipts and income normally classed as
non-taxable were taxable; that the
amount of tax he agreed to pay was
agreed on by both parties, representing
a fair compromise (in the commissioner’s
view), otherwise he would have had to
pay a far greater amount immediately
and perhaps wait two years or more for a
refund ; that taxation officers had been
continually on his business premises for
five months, interfering with its conduct,
and he reached a stage where he was
prepared to accept the department’s offer
and avoid worry and delay, and that at
no time did the department suggest any
element of fraud. Mr. Alexander still
maintains that no part of the disputed
income was taxable.
Privilege has been used here to attack
a large number of citizens, guilty or not
guilty of the alleged fraud. Every tax-
payer owes it to himself not to pay more
tax than that to which he is liable, and
privilege should not be invoked, in what-
ever spirit or for whatever purpose it
was, to cover mere suspicion.
It is unlikely that Mr. Alexander’s case
is exceptional, although, no doubt, he
is one of the fortunate few well enough
off to pay the substantial cost of a display-
advertisement in his own city giving his
version.
National Service Blunder
[From Canberra!
The Government’s handling of the first
National Service ballot seemed to be
designed to insult as many potential
trainees as possible; its declaration that
youths liable for call-up might change
their addresses, enrol as students, or “go


bush” was an affront to Australian
youth.
Do politicians seriously believe • that
Australian teenagers are so crafty and
full of gpile that they would seek these
ruses to wriggle out of their obligations?
And what of the teenagers’ parents ; are
they expected to be aiding and abetting
this artfulness?
The Government’s elaborate ballot, in
which well-known and weff-respected
Labor veteran Percy Clarey, M.H.R.,
Bendigo, drew 149 marbles representing
the birth-dates of those eligible for ser-
vice, smacked too much of the lottery ; in
fact, the barrel from which Clarey drew
the marbles is normally used for drawing
horses in Melbourne Cup sweeps.
The whole thing reeked of politics.
Mr. Clarey is now under fire by his own
party, and the influential N.S.W. pro-
Evatt crowd would like his scalp for his
defiance of the party stand made clear
by Ward and other extreme Left-wingers.
However, Clarey seems fairly safe ; he’s
a senior member of the party’s Parlia-
mentary Executive, and one of the few
Labor men today who would have a
chance of wresting the leadership from
Dr. Evatt.
Clarey has shown the obvious division
in Labor ranks from the official Opposi-
tion stand, which was against the legisla-
tion on setting-up the ballot system.
Now the Government has refused to
publish results of the draw. What if,
after weeding out the medically unfit and
others with deferments for one reason or
another, the 15,000 draftees do not pro-
vide the planned 12,000 youths for train-
ing? Will authorities “ring-in” a few
more birthdays to make up the numbers?
Youths “lucky” enough to be selected
because their birthdays presumably
coincide with the numbers on the 149
marbles may question the “luck of the
draw.”
——
Norfolk Island Affairs
About two-and-a-half years ago a
petition was addressed to the Queen,
signed by nearly 400 of her Majesty’s
humble and obedient servants resident on
Norfolk Island. The signatories included
many, Christians, Quintals, Adamses,
McCoys, Nobbses, Buffetts and other
names redolent of Pitcairn and the
Bounty. They sought the repeal of a
Customs ordinance proclaimed on
November 30, 1954, on the ground that
it was “contrary to the fundamental
principle of British government that there
shall be no taxation without representa-
tion.” They further beseeched her
Majesty “to restore to us the democratic
right of control over our own
domestic affairs.”
The petition did not reach her Majesty,
but it apparently set Canberra’s Con-
stitutional experts thinking, and when a
party of Federal M.P.s visited Norfolk
Island last year for the centenary celebra-
tions of the landing of the Pitcairners
they were able to hear at first-hand some
of the islanders’ grievances. A sequel
to this was enacted in Canberra just
before Parliament adjourned for the
winter recess, when Minister for
Territories Hasluck introduced two bills
dealing with Norfolk Island.
From the first of these it- appears that
all the Norfolk Island ordinances issued
since 1915 have been invalid. The reason
for this is that the original Act provided
that an ordinance would come into force
by the Governor-General fixing its date of
commencement. In practice this has
always been done by the Administrator
posting a copy of the order on or near
the Court House on the island, it now
seems that the Governor-General cannot
delegate his power to the Administrator
and that “no ordinance made since 1915
has been properly commenced.” The
new Act tidies this up by validating all
past ordinances and providing that future
ones shall be proclaimed through a
Government Gazette.
Norfolk Islanders won’t find much to
cheer about in that, although, the
knowledge that they have made Canberra
admit a mistake should give them some
satisfaction. But the second Act goes
some way towards meeting their claim
for control over their own affairs.
Working with Aliens
Waterside-workers in Melbourne,
prodded from Unity quarters, have cast
about for a plausible whinge and chosen
the occasional inclusion of overseas sea-
men in their working-gangs when part
or one of the gang has not turned-up
for work.
About 1000 wharfies are' employed
when overseas ships are working at the
Melbourne piers, and it is inevitable that
a number of these are absent from sick-
ness or other causes. The practice of in-
cluding seamen from the ships worked
has been established for years and is not
a new attempt by the employers allegedly
to break-down working conditions.
The seamen casually employed to make
gangs up to full strength, since the
wharfies will not work under stipulated
numbers, are paid at watersiders’ rates,
and they cease work the moment the
watersider appears, whatever his reason
for being late, for work.
A Melbourne conference of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, employers’
representatives and the Stevedoring
Industry Board “failed to reach agree-
ment”—the euphemism for capitulation
to the federation.
It was called after four gangs of
w'harfies had refused to work with “alien”
replacements —that is, members of the
overseas seamen’s unions ; the Australian
Seamen’s Union won’t supply crew
members for local ships—and the steve-
doring authority has warned the federa-
tion it will be disciplined if crew members
are not accepted when emergencies arise.
“There has been a most heartening im-
provement on the waterfront in recent
months,” said Minister for Labor Holt
in Canberra on May 16. “There, has been
more efficiency in recent months than in
any period in which I have been in
Parliament.”
Those whose interest in the waterfront
is not in peaceful working are cracking
the whip to ensure that that state of
affairs does not continue.
Big World Changes
[By “Ek l)nm”J
The results of the Suez Canal affair,
involving Washington’s assertion of a
right to dictate the international morals
of the Western world, through U.N.- and
otherwise, is beginning to make itseff
felt. The world scene exhibits a hew
-era in national policies.
it is evident that, while carrying out
its agreements with its allies in Nato and
elsewhere, the United Kingdom has
decided to take its own course wherever
it feels its interests involved, without con-
sulting the wishes of either Russia or
the United States. And the U.S. is un-
happily going its own way.
This has been shown by two divergent
courses of action, relating respectively to
trade with Red China and the H-bomb.
The Americans are very much dis-
appointed, at the evolvement of a new
British trade policy with the East which,
w'hile it forbids the export of strategic
material and subjects British exporters
to strict Government control, will reduce
the list of embargoed goods in number by
about half. This has been agreed to by
the U.K. Government in the face of-oppo-
sition by the Americans.
The change of line has come at a time
when the Chinese are doing their utmost
to win the West away from the U.S.
policies and when the U.S. is certainly
not doing anything to win Asiatic or
European applause, or even the applause
of its own leaders.
Despite the strongest representations
of the need to finance the Eisenhower
doctrine, the President’s Cabinet appears
to be breaking-up and h.s influence with
Congress and the country is at a low
ebb. The House of Representatives dur-
ing the week cut the defence appropria-
tion by approximately £ll4O million, he
having previously cut his original
January foreign-aid programme by 10
per cent, without satisfying his Senate
critics, who call for another 10 per cent,
slice.
And the Secretary to the Treasury,
George Humphrey, who has been
intensely critical of Presidential policy
ever since the President’s issue of the
Budget, resigned—the fourth member
of the Cabinet of ten to leave since 1953.
It is known that Mr. Wilson, Secretary of
Defence, is held to office only by a thread,
and wishes to retire.
Indeed, the only Cabinet-member who
is firm in his assertion of loyalty is Mr.
Dulles, and there is some suggestion that
he may resign on the ground of ill health
before the year is out.
It is not a happy position. Mr. Dulles
and Mr. Stassen are carrying what might
be termed a sort of public mule-trading
auction on disarmament with Moscow
over the heads of the other members of
the disarmament sub-committee, though
Mr. Dulles has graciously offered not to
make any decisions affecting West Ger-
many or Europe generally without first
obtaining the approval of Western
European nations. But he obviously
hopes to present Western Europe with
(Continued on page 13)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
T WAS rather extinguished to read
A in the “S. M. Herald” that the
Sydney harem had been able to scare-up
no more than £250,000-worth of jewellery
for the Fonteyn premiere. Surely one
diamond necklace—one that one would
be seen wearing, that is—would cost
about that much . . . it's all very small-
town. Melbourne could do better. But
mv financial adviser tells me that many
of the girls were obliged to sell their
jewellery to pay for the tickets—l
suppose, such was the prestige attached to
being there, they’d rather have gone
naked than stayed at home with the
Koh-i-noor! —“Jane.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Tom Trout": Some obiter dicta of
London critics, eyeing “The Doll” from
the several aesthetic levels, have been
worth a laugh even to a Londonised Aus-
tralian. The “Sunday Times,” in an
essay on canecutters, has them as “a
closed community,” like the cuadrilla of
a bullfighter, “each member revering his
chief (the ganger) as a sort of king or
ruler.” The material of the play, says the
“Spectator,” “is woven brilliantly, to-
gether with a strand of ripe Australian
humor and a suffocatingly realistic
atmosphere, into a cloth as rough and
dazzling as an aboriginal rug”! Mel-
bourne takes some knocks. The “Daily
Telegraph” passes it over vaguely as “the
outback,” but the “Spectator” hits
harder than a Sydney critic would dare ;
the play, it says, “is set in a sun-sozzled
country town in Victoria.” •
❖❖ ❖ '
“Kenyas”: When you’re trying to in-
struct a class of small boys you have to
confiscate all sorts of things—comics,
marbles, balls, toy aeroplanes—so as to
keep their minds on what they ought to
be kept on. Unfortunately I often forget
to return the treasures. Once when I’d
hauled in a particularly rich harvest the
urchin burst out with: “Everybody knows
you take them away from us to give to
your own kids!” I blushed. Everybody
knew something else: I’m a bachelor.
•> * ♦>
“Sir Jay”: Being on the distaff-side,
“Sister Efiell” and “Miss M.” (B.
15/5/’57) would .probably never have
heard what our branch of the R.A.A.F.
called our service-issue of undies:
“Passion-killers.”
*> * ♦;«
“Eurimburra”: Not ail of the latest
yowler's fans are teenagers, as Bob dis-
covered when, in the welter of gnawed
handkerchiefs and pseudo-swoons around
him, he cupped his hands and booed. He
was admiring the effect of his little effort
when an outraged dame of about fifty
seated in the pew behind him lent forward
and handed him a rabbitkiller that left
him with a stiff neck for a week.
♦> *> »>
“Cash Cou»t”: Racing-writers dis-
tinguish between professional and amateur
jockeys by prefixing “Mr.” to a lily-
white’s name—the inference being that
anybody who rides racehorses for fun
must be a gentleman. So that it was sur-
prising to read of a barney in the jockeys’
room after the running of the Corinthian
Handicap for amateur riders, at Paken-
ham, Victoria, One young gentleman
soundly punched the nose of an older
gentleman for allegedly trying to put him
over the rail during the running of the
race. The pugnacious one copped six-
months’ suspension.
❖ ❖ *
“Fell Maken”; Twice recently I’ve seen
it stated in the Sydney press that The
Big Fella was sacked by Sir Dudley de
Chair —surely it wouldn’t take much
inquiry to learn that Sir Phillip Game was
the Governor who did the job? And only
last week one of Sydney's Great Dailies
established Empire Day in 1916/ Well,
I started school well before that, and
Empire Day is the only big holiday I
remember, by date . . . and in 1913 I
received a book as a prize (I still have it)
for the best Empire Day speech at the
school.
•> * *
“Heresone”: “Truth” on the subject
of a woman who died after an anti-
tetanus injection:
Medical opinion is that it is a case likely
to occur once in a lifetime.
Threatened as we are nowadays by H-
bombs, Singapore-’flu, motor-cars and
other perils, it is cheering to know that
there is still one malady that can kill us
only once.
THE NEW ECONOMY
“Australian sawmillers say that an increase in
duty on Oregon from 13s. a hundred super-feet
to 475. should result in a drop in the cost of
home-building in N. S. Wales.”
Our timber-men, it must be said,
Are never wooden in the head ;
The theory : “Two by two make, four”
Is one they’re fitted to ignore —
They know, our timber-millers do,
What two-by-two will chisel to,
And where the common man might think
The price of homes would rise, not shrink,
If we paid treble duty on
Imported wood like oregon
Our Jimber-experts long have known
That what goes upwards must come
down
So if we raise the price of wood
The price of homes must fall —or should.
Indeed, it’s methods such as this
That put our housing where it is,
And while they last, I think it’s plain
That that is where it will remain.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


-rvESTINATION—dog-house, for the
husband who, when asked “Got any
old bags, mate?* 5 called, “Hey, son, tell
Mum a man wants her!” —“M-CrM.”
❖ ♦> ❖
“Geep”: The staff of a Busselton
(W.A.) hospital were excited by their
new record, a dozen girl-babies in suc-
cession. The wife of the baker rounded
it off by producing the thirteenth.
❖ ❖
“F.N.”: “I know one thing that you
haven't got in your so good zoo,” the
Kew Australian interrupted my enthusi-
astic flow: “Iceed beers.” That stopped
me. “Well, you can get plenty of
soft drinks,” I defended lamely. He
looked puzzled. “You misunderstand me,
1 think.” Five minutes later my self-
respect and Taronga Park’s had been
restored. Any resemblance between iceed
beers and Polar bears is still coincidental.
❖ * ❖
“1.Y.”: Compared with Charleston
devotees, judged by “The Victorian
Dance News,” May 9, 1936, our rock-’n’-
roll dancers must be cream-puffs.
Suburban councils banned the Charleston
because several people were reported to
have died doing this dance. Doctors said
that the dance was undermining the
health of those dancing it.
►: . * * .
“Cuffer”: A teenager, talking to her
friend on the tram: “Yeah, 1 got away to
the city, but the cops nabbed me right
away. Made me sleep in the lock-up.
When they took me back home Dad gave
me a real lacing. Yeah. It was so bad
Mum had to go out the front an’ get the
cops again so they could come in and
slop Dad before he killed me.” All told
with a happy smile on the angelic face,
in a matter-of-fact tone, to a chorus of
“oohs” from the girl-friend.
•> *
“0.G.”: Cracker-and-bonfire night in
our corner of our suburb went off with
many a bang. Nervous grandparents
were assured by a bespectacled boy who
had topped in his class in science that
bonfire-smoke would not cause lung-
cancer ; nor would double-bungers, or
rockets which disappeared in the sky,
create any deleterious fall-out.
“P.0.M.C.”: Though I've been
enthusiastically letting-off fireworks,
man and boy, for 50 years I had never
witnessed until cracker-night this year the
thousand-to-one chance of skyrockets col-
liding. Two large star-shell types, fired
almost simultaneously about five houses
apart, arched towards each other, pranged
in full flight amid a galaxy of sparks and,
between them, emitted an almost perfect
circle of multicolored stars. And I dis-
tinctly heard the other bloke’s kid yell:
“Do it again, Dad”!
“8.A.H.” : Home again with
flat feet and aching leg-
muscles from 10 days in the
Big Smog after a 10-years’
absence ; impressions begin to
trickle back . . . the busy
cigarette-kiosk with a notice
at one end of the tiny counter:
.“Stop Smoking. Take Blank’s
Tablets” . . . the dramatic
serenade of sirens mixed with
the vibrant beauty of carillon-
bells drifting up to the heights
of The Cross from the mur-
muring city ... the elegantly
groomed Pekinese with a
bowed pony-tail hair-do . . .
faint “Pig-iron Bob” signs . . .
chalked “Eternity” messages
.. . pepped-up hula-like move-
ments of little girls as they
spin large cane hoops around
their bodies at high speed . . .
the utter respectability of the
famous Cross . . . the noise,
and the nightmare of yellow
lines, By Order notices and
tow-away areas . . . the traffic
almost playing Chinese
checkers . . . the very old lady
wearing black velvet slippers
with “See you lata®, Alligator”
painted across the toe of one
and “In a while, Crocodile”
upon the other . . . immacu-
late, contented-looking women
sitting shoeless in a boot-
repairer’s shop waiting for
“heels in three minutes.”
And, above all, feeding money
into hungry, meial si.ts wan their curt
demand, “Place Coin Here,” the number-
less, deadly-efficient counterparts —-
human hands held palm-uppermost across
numberless counters!
❖ <* ♦>
“Moorapi”: Victorian Railway Com-
missioners must have heaved a sigh of
relief when the last goods-train clanked
over the 2i-mile branch-line from Haw-
thorn to Kew. Built in 1887, it has been
a financial flop and an ugly scar on the
face of Melbourne’s eastern suburbs. The
last passenger-train” ran over it five years
ago. The rails cannot be dismantled until
a special Act of Parliament has been
passed.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Tim”: He boarded the tram at the
terminus, a plump elderly man, talking
to the passengers, moving from seat ■ to
seat. Soon he sat beside me. It turned
out he was an ex-conductor (retired) on
this particular line, and it was his habit to
have a weekly run on the tram and chat
to old customers. Very popular he was,
even with the inspector. As final crush-
ing proof of his fame he announced
proudly, “Me picture was in the paper.”
♦2* «£•
“Pip Tok”: Another Perth landmark,
Esplanade Mansions, a graceful three-
stories with a 70ft. ‘frontage, is the
latest casualty of the mechanised age.
Owned since 1925 by the Commercial
"Cant get the magic potion straight,
Dracula. But — oh, boy! — I've stumbled
on a Wonderful home-brew !”
Travellers’ Association and Club, the
building will be demolished to make
room for a two-level car-park for club-
members.
❖ ❖ ❖
AO.M.C.”: Didn’t know Ray Parer
(B. 22/5/’57), but I knew his father, a
genial mountain of a man, Mine Host of
Parer’s Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne,
famous for its five-course meals for
five-bob. In 1918, a rookie from Broad-
meadows camp on leave in khaki cap,
khaki greatcoat and blue jeans, I would
take a room at Parer’s, change into natty
grey suit of civvies (which, with acces-
sories, an obliging management let me
store in a suit-case in the booking-office),
dine, wine and do the town. In fact,
during my first weeks in the First A.1.F.,
1 was more often a civilian than a
soldier.
♦> *:♦
“Fell Maken*’: “Political Points”
(B. 22/5/’57) records the "first men to be
convicted of ‘chicken’ in N.5.W.,” but the
episode recorded is “za-za,” a variation
in which a person stands in front of an
oncoming car, forcing the car either to
stop or run over him. On a Saturday
afternoon, in a western suburb of Sydney,
a personable young lass was seen to get
a middy of beer from the corner pub,
walk sedately into the roadway, face the
oncoming traffic, raise the middy, bow,
and drink the beer. A car stopped within
2ft. of her, but there was no copper
present, so she went free. These “za-za”


p’ayers could be charged with endanger-
ing the lives and limbs and property of
her Majesty’s subjects, an offence carry-
ing a penalty of imprisonment up to three
years. And some of them should get it.
♦2> *l*
“Kate”: I went to buy the latest
Coast to Coast in one of Melbourne’s
larger suburbs and in the first bookshop
was told they’d never heard of it. In the
second two they appeared helpful, but
after searching through the comic section
only, apologised for not having it. In
the fourth shop I was told they didn’t
have it. If, however, I’d care to look
through the books I might see something
I’d like. I did —the Coast to Coast I’d
inquired about.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Kenyas”: The young fellow and his
pretty girl-friend were enjoying afternoon-
tea at a seaside cafe: she was wolfing
“I cant seem to get into the mood."
into chocolate-and-cream pastries. He
kept shifting his glance from her to the
cakes and back again. “Look,” he warned
at last, “if you go on eating those things
you’ll soon make a mess of your all-the-
way-down profile.”
♦♦♦
“Sackville”: In a district that has since
the war about doubled its population with
migrants, nine-tenths of whom are
Italians, therefore not New Australians,
we have developed a shrugging acceptance
of the fact that Italian is as much our
national language as English. Hence my
amazement and pleasure to hear two
It2.lian-loolcing men in the train speaking
in slow but passable English. At
Central station one got out and was just
ahead of me when passing through the
barrier. He had gone several steps when
the porter took after him flourishing
What was obviously a bodgie-ticket. The
accosted looked bewildered. “No unner-
stan',” he said. “Not spik Engleesh.” The
good old standby never fails.
♦X* *4?
“Hist.”: Perforations (B. 15/5/’57)
are by no means regarded by the P.O. as
an integral part of the stamp, but merely
as a convenient means of separation.
Were “8.A.H.” to buy a sheet of im-
perforate stamps he could snip them
apart with scissors and the P.O. would
have no objection. On the other hand,
his imperforate sheet would probably net
him a couple of hundred quid from any
stamp-dealer. The booklet-sheets im-
perforate on three sides are a new develop-
ment. These stamps are printed from
special plates of a format convenient for
binding into booklets, and it has
obviously dawned on someone that
external perforation of the small sheets
was unnecessary and that it was quicker
and more economical to separate them
by guillotining.
»> *t< *!♦
“Doynest”: I suppose that nobody,
least of all the lyric-writer, pays much
attention to the words that go along
with song-hits, but occasionally a phrase
impresses itself on the mind through sheer
inanity, such as the declaration in a
current “hit-number” that “even little
children love Marie-Ann!” A young
woman who can’t make herself acceptable
to youngsters is a rare type. By substi-
tuting the words “even other women love
Marie-Ann” the writer would have estab-
lished it as incontrovertible that the
object of his adoration was a pearl beyond
price.
THE CAREFREE LIFE
“A skeleton of an ancient man found under
many strata in a cave in Iran has been established
by scientific calculation to be 37,000 years old.”
Some thirty-seven thousand years ago
This ancestor of ours, by tooth and toe,
Hung grimly on to life. Gigantic beast
He ate {on making sure it was deceased ).
He wore his tatts out on it, as WE do
Today upon the tougher steaks we chew.
His prospect of a roof-tree oft was bleak,
In which, no doubt, he thought he was
unique !
Perils encompassed him, many vexations ;
And yet for him life had its
compensations.
For, thirty-seven thousand years ago,
That hairy caveman had no radio
To blast at him the news of great,
disasters ;
Guff about someone’s jalap and corn-
plasters ;
About the umpteenth bride of Tommy
Manville;
Amateur choristers murdering the
"Anvil.”
An Elvis Presley in his anguish groaning ;
Or, on his one thin note, an M.P. droning.
The play the announcer terms a " mystery -
thriller”
Four minutes from the start you pick the
killer.
He never was exposed to gloomy pest
Who claims the fall-out from the H-bomb
test
Could have us all looking like dried-out
gnomes
And sporting unhirsute Yul Brynner
domes.
He never woke to see his long-haired mate
A forest of butterfly-clips upon her pate.
He never heard of tantrums on the courts.
Of "amateurs”' living lushly off their
sports
While waiting for the really big-time
lure;
Of fights engendered by the "goodwill
tour.”
He wasn’t called upon to stand the chips
For costly aldermanic pleasure-trips
To “study” methods which, they find too
late,
Have been regarded long as out-of-date.
No licence did he need to make some
hooch,
To take a missus or to keep a pooch.
He had some troubles, as you will allow,
Though not to cause him corrugated
brow.
He was, in fact, a lucky so-and-so,
That bloke who trod this gtobe so long
ago!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Fisherman on a Bock
The summer sky is all ablaze
And in the bag are seven
Fine, fat fish with diamond scales.
The rocks are stairs to heaven.
Gulls wheel and ring and dip their
wings,
The world is salt and wide;
And, down below, the queer sea-things
Sink gurgling with the tide.
The blue Pacific is asleep
And wrinkled like a prune;
The littie waves come breaking in
Across the hush of nocn.
Tall, fair Peter, a sunburnt rock,
Fished here last week alone;
The sea came up in a white, wet shock
Of foam and he was gone.
Up sprang the sea to drown the sun,
Down to the ocean-bed:
His wife will cook another catch
And eat another’s bread.
The little waves well up and fall;
The fisher stands firm, maybe;
But never a fisherman stood too tall
For the long arms of the sea.
Fisherman dark against the sky
Knows all this full we!!,
Sings as he swings his shining line
Into the ocean’s swell.
N.S.W.
John Fountain.


POLITICAL POINTS
Scented or not, this tea business still
imells.
• - •
One Sydney tram is adorned with a
huge advertisement for “Santamaria
Saraines.” Transport Minister Enticknap
had better watch his step. The Evatt
executive could easily misunderstand the
ad. Worse still, true-blue A.L.P.
supporters packed inside the tram might
consider the label libellous.
• - •
Victoria is leaving N.S.W. for dead
in industrial progress. And it’s largely
a matter of government. South Australia
has been the most progressive State over
the past 20 years ; Play ford has had much
to do with that. Since Bolte took the
reins in Victoria that State has also gone
ahead in a businesslike way. In N.S.W.
there has been nothing but “Labor”
government for 16 years; and in that
time the “Labor” racket has just about
sucked the State dry.
• ■ •-
There are some red faces at the Com-
monwealth Bureau of Census and Statis-
tics following the release .of “Australian
Democratic Review No. 76.” Table 5 of
■the review shows that during 1956 Aus-
tralia accepted as migrants an astonishing
number of divorced persons—ll6,l9s.
In exchange, as it were, 80,163 divorced
Australians left for overseas. The figures
made Australia look like a sort of Pacific
Reno. A second press-release the follow-
ing day did its best to check the obvious
mistake—“divorced” should have read
“married” —-but the slip of paper explain-
ing the misprint referred to the “errow”
in Table 5.
• •
Chamberlain, Federal president of the
A.L.P., chose the moment, when his
Federal Parliamentary leader, Dr. Evatt,
was leaving for England, to write an
essay on “democratic Socialism” for
Sydney “Herald,” one of whose writers
complains that he didn’t explain how it
was going to be achieved. The term itself
explains—it is a Communist technical
phrase. It is to be achieved, as goes
without saying on the behavior of Mr.
Chamberlain’s juntas, through “demo-
cratic centralism” —the dictatorship of the
proletariat.
• •
Visions of seeing their party on the
Government benches for the first time
since 1932 have encouraged a record
number of Liberals to try-out for the
24 Brisbane metropolitan seats. During the
week 175 candidates will face the selection
committee; in some electorates there’ll
be as many as 20 triers. In the present
Parliament the Libs, hold only seven
metropolitan seats and one country seat
(Lockyer).
• •
All the 849 houses and flats which six
months ago provided temporary homes
for Vladimir Kuts, Charlie Dumas, Betty
Cuthbert, Shirley Strickland and all the
rekt of the Olympic Games competitors
are now occupied by Australian families,
Vic. Housing Minister Petty said last
week. All the shops at Olympic village
have been sold and about 120 families are
buying the homes they occupy. The
Housing Commission is to build 60 more
homes at the village. These will be erected
on land occupied during the Games by
kitchens and administrative offices.
• •
What did the poet say about someone’s
heart being as pure as Drive-in snow?
• •
“Lobby”: A claim by one of Dr.
Evatt’s close assoc.ates suggests that the
Labor Party’s internal strife is over.
Well, how about this: It’s quite possiole
that pro-Evatt M.H.R.s will stand on
the same platform with Duggan, and
anti-Evatt Labor M.H.R.s will speak for
Gair at the Queensland State election.
Hardly unity! The threat of the new
split-campaigning has been made quite
openly by the handful of N. S. Wales
Groupers in Federal Parliament. The
story is that if Evatt’s cronies on the
N. S. Wales executive refuse to endorse
them for the next Federal poll the
Groupers will campaign for Gair. The
threat may make the executive recon-
sider its plans for refusing endorsement.
• •
“E. & O. E.”: The Trades Hall bosses
in Tasmania have once more advised
Premier Cosgrove to restore c.-0.-l. adjust-
ments —or else. They have also pointed
out that a lot of prices are too high—
even allowing for such extras as shipping
freights. But the unkindest cut, for a
“Labor” Government, lies in the
enumeration of a long list of goods that
can be bought cheaper in Melbourne and
Adelaide.
• •
Cahill told the Loan Council that “it
is... .fantastic that tradesmen and
business - firms should be financing
hospitals to the extent of £2,750,000 in
arrears on accounts.” It is—in the light
of the way his hospitals are behaving.
While Newcastle Hospital is said to owe
its tradesmen amounts that run into six
figures, the commission has been busy
tearing-down much-needed shops in the
main Newcastle street to build a million-
pound (or thereabouts) nurses’ home.
• •
Sir Keith Murray, Chairman of the
University Grants Committee in Britain,
and Sir Charles Morris, Vice-Chancellor
of Leeds University, will arrive in Aus-
tralia on July 1 to begin their investiga-
tions. into Australian universities. To-
gether with three Australians —Sir lan
Clunies Ross, head of C.5.1.R.0., Alex
Reid, Chancellor of the University of
Western Australia, and Jack Richards,
assistant general-manager of B.H.P. —
they will visit universities in all States to
take evidence from interested parties.
The five-man team will sit first in
Canberra and will later seek the views
of State Governments, university people
and the general public. Hundreds of
people have written to the Prime
Minister’s Department seeking permission
to give evidence.
Unfortunately the committee’s report
(and it’s certain to recommend an in-
creased Government grant for universi-
ties) will not be ready until about
Christmas—much too late for the Govern-
ment to do anything about it in the
Budget. But the timing will enable the
Government to make a magnanimous
gesture to the universities in August, 1958
—the election Budget.
• •
Next Budget is almost certain to pro-
vide for a special handout to N. S. Wales
and Victoria to help carry out prelimin-
ary surveys for the proposed standard-
gauge line between Wodonga and Mel-
bourne. Although the new line will be
in Victorian territory, N. S, Wales is
going to contribute to the cost, as the
completed project will provide a through-
line of 4ft. Byin. between Sydney and
Melbourne, putting an end to the expen-
sive reloading process at Albury.
• •'
Housing figures for the March quarter
showed a smaller number completed
(15,081) than for any quarter since 1951.
The total was more than 2000 below the
completions for the December quarter.
Commencements, however, were slightly
higher than- in the previous term and the
number of houses under construction was
61,709 compared with 59,934 in the
December quarter.
• •
“Kandy Kid” asks a few questions
about tea:
Firstly, what was the original reason for the
impoitation of the cheap Formosan tea, which
was rushed on to the market when the new
order from Formosa was announced?
What is happening to the increasing quantities
of cheaper Indonesian tea which have been
imported over the last year, or so? How much
stockpiled tea qualified for the last of the
Government subsidy, and how much is now
stockpiled, at prices which have cost us a
lot in foreign exchange? What is happening
to the reported trade agreement with Ceylon,
in which Colombo was reported ready to take
our flour instead of the give-away American
stuff, because we were buying more Ceylonese
tea? Is there a tea cartel, and, if so, who are
the members of it ? Are Australian consumers
of tea in'the least conscious of the qualities and
values of various brands, after nearly 20 years
of having only “pool” tea available, and, if so,
what scope is given for the purchase of really
fine teas from Ceylon, India and China (Red
and Nationalist)? And, of wide interest, will the
Statistician take the cheaper tea into account
in fixing c.-0.-l. figures?


some sort of fait accompli arrived at uni-
laterally with the Russians. It is difficult
to see how it can be anything more than
a chimera.
Meanwhile, the Middle Eastern situa-
tion is riding in a new direction. Jordan,
which a few months ago abrogated the
treaty with the British and flung the
U.K.’s subsidy back in its face on a
guarantee from fellow Arab States to
make up the cash, is now back, collecting-
tin in hand, asking London for more.
All the chickens, including the climax
to the rain of nuclear bombs near
Christmas Island in the Pacific, will be
dropped in the lap of the Prime Ministers’
conference in London, and it will be
interesting to see what comes out of the
mess. It is to be hoped that it will be a
unified British Commonwealth policy.
Will Britain’s decision to increase trade
with Red China help to get British over-
seas trade out of the red without ca’using
a blue with America?
• •
Queensland Parliament meets for its
pre-election session next Tuesday. Gait
has kept mum about the election date
since his early protests that for technical
reasons it would be impossible to hold a
poll before September. All other parties
say that’s nonsense and they’re likely to
press him for quick action. Favorite tips
are July 27 and August 3.
• •
Much of the criticism of the proposed
road-transport taxes would disappear if
the State Governments undertook to
spend the proceeds on maintaining the
roads instead of using them to bolster-up
their railways.
• •
The Sydney aldermen’s New Zealand
jaunt is still on —but only just. At first
the Council designed it as a five-man
job, seemingly in the belief that no
smaller crew could cope with the assign-
ment of studying housing-schemes and
slum-clearance in the Dominion. Then
the Liberal and D.L.P. aldermen refused
to nominate, so the party was reduced
to three Labor men. Lord Mayor Jensen
regretted that the others wouldn’t play,
but believed the three chosen would be
able to handle the assignment. Last
week Ernie O’Dea, one of the three, found
that union business would prevent his
making the trip. That leaves two to carry
out the onerous task first allotted to five.
But Jensen has faith that they’ll be able
to stand up to it. Which makes it all the
stranger why he first thought it necessary
to send five.
Truth is that the two pilgrims aren’t
likely to find out anything that isn’t
known already or which couldn’t have
been found out by writing to the New
Zealand authorities. And if they do, they
still won’t have any chance of getting it
accepted by the Council unless it's strictly
in line with Labor policy.
a a
Well, either Orr ...
a a
At a peak traffic hour of 8.40 a.m., near
Princes Bridge : —one of the world’s busiest
corners —a Melbourne tram collided with
a car; the conductor left to report the
accident; and, with trams banking-up
across the Bridge and blocking corners
farther back, a Tramways foreman sent
one of his men to act as conductor.
The Tramways Board congratulated
the foreman on his quick thinking ; the
tramwaymen’s Commie Clarrie O’Shea,
secretary of the union, aghast at this
violation of one-man-one-tram, is Going
To Take The Matter Up.
• •
Nuclear bombs, from fusion to fission
and from giants to midgets, have fallen
thick and fast through May. However,
the fact that giant bombs can be made is
less significant than that pint-sized ones
of battle-type are practical oolitics.
Especially for the poor old footslogger.
A MODERN MELODRAMA
Incidental!}', Lord Cherwell, Churchill’s
war-time adviser and one of the world’s
leading physicists, with an unparalleled
experience of the lethal side of science,
thinks it “wicked” that anyone should
use far-fetched suppositions to spread
alarm about the possible harmful effects
of H-bomb explosions. He says that it
is “ridiculous” to contend that genetic
damage could result from Christmas
Island radiation and that the idea that
strontium-90 charges will cause general
bone-cancer and leukemia is “fiction.”
He must be wrong. Drs. Khrushchev and
Evatt don’t agree.
• •
The Norfolk Island Bill, 1957, provides
for the establishment of a Norfolk Island
Council with power to make by-laws,
levy rates and fees, control its own
expenditure and exercise authority over
such matters as “roads, drainage, sanita-
tion, control of livestock, pests and
noxious weeds, electricity supply, guest-
houses, places of entertainment, trading
hours” and similar matters.
Norfolk Islanders have no vote in
Federal elections. Still, their nearest
neighbors on Lord Howe Island, who
vote at both N. S. Wales and Federal
elections, would probably willingly swap
the privilege for Norfolk’s new Council.
Their nearest approach to it is an advisory
body with the majority of its members
nominated by the N. S. Wales
Government.
• •
Former Victorian Senator C. W.
Sandford looks like returning to the
Senate in place of the late Senator
Devlin. He has been nominated by the
Vic. A.L.P. and will be approved by the
joint meeting of both Victorian Houses
unless the Bolte Government changes its
mind and runs a Lib. candidate. Sandford
was a Senator from 1946 until 1956 and
V as third man on the Labor ticket for
Victoria at the last election when he
was narrowly defeated by Anti-Com-
munist Labor candidate McManus.


PERSONAL ITEMS
PASTORAL FIRM
angus McDonald Baxter
(above) came from Scotland to Aus-
tralia with his parents, picked-up a
scientific brand of “colonial experience”
at Queensland’s Gatton Agricultural
College, and then, with an elder brother,
took-over a grazing property in the
Townsville district. He served with the
42nd Bn. in World War I and was eventu-
ally commissioned ; both his father and
brother were killed in that war.
In 1919 he went back on the land, this
time with Australian Estates Co., as a
jackeroo on Cambridge Downs in north-
west Queensland, and was made an over-
seer the following year. By 1923 he was
manager of Manuka station, near
Hughenden, a property which carried up
to 70,000 sheep, was promoted to sheep-
pastoral-inspector in 1930, later trans-
ferred to the agency side of the com-
pany’s business at the Brisbane office, and
became manager last year. This office
controls 26 branches in Queensland and
one in N. S. Wales.
A past-president of Brisbane Legacy,
he’s also done good work for the Red
Cross Appeal committee and the Bush
Children’s Health Scheme, is a governor
of the Society of St. Andrew of Scotland,
and a member of the Queensland, United
Service, and Tattersall’s clubs. A keen
follower of a variety of games, and par-
ticularly of Rugby, he still plays tennis.
• •
Queensland University’s Chancellor,
Otto Hirschfeld, has passed on at 59 in
Brisbane. Born there, he went to Bris-
bane Grammar and then to Queensland
University to study Science, but did
Medicine in Melbourne. Apart from the
usual medical degrees (M. 8., 8.5.), he was
a Master of Science and a Fellow of the
Royal Australasian College of Physicians,
and Melbourne University made him an
hon. Doctor of Laws. Senior physician
at Brisbane General, university lecturer
(clinical medicine, materia medica and
pharmacology), member of the National
Health and Medical Research Council’s
Poison Schedule Committee and the State
Health Department’s Drugs and Equip-
ment Advisory Committee, and a former
president of Brisbane’s Johnsonian Club,
he led a full and useful life. A general
physician, but known, in particular, for
his work on diabetic conditions, he was
big in stature and otherwise —Queens-
land is full of tales of his kindness ; and
he hated publicity. In short, as a well-
known Brisbane medical man put it to
The Bulletin: “Altogether, a damned
fine fellow and a great physician.”
• ®
Successor to the late Hugo Freeth (B.
29/5/’57) in the editorial chair of the
Christchurch (N.Z.) “Press,” A. R. Cant,
a native of the Flat City, who has been
29 years with the paper ; he started there
as a cadet and had been assistant-editor.
His father was an old “Press” man, on
the accountancy side ; making a family
association with the daily of 78 years.
« •
“F.”: Glancing through the English
publication “The Bookseller” I noticed
an account of a publisher’s “do” in Lon-'
don at which Professor F. J. Schonell and
his wife, Dr. F. E. Schonell, were guests-
of-honor. Both the Schonells write books
(about which details are given). Pro-
fessor Schonell is in Europe lecturing for
Unesco and is “a native of Australia”—
the last, I think, a nice, typically English
touch. The latest Australian Who’s Who
also mentions that he is Professor of
Education and Dean of the Faculty
of Education at the University of
Queensland.
• •
“Maitri”: Like George Bernard Shaw,
Annie Besant and other almost-legendary
ones, the late Sir Gilbert Murray, O.M.—
perhaps by the measure of real values
our greatest Australian—managed to live
far beyond the normal allotted span
despite (or because of) his confirmed
vegetarianism.
Not only was he one of the greatest
authorities on Greek culture, he was in
love with it: it is said he was as con-
versant with the streets of ancient Athens
as he was with those of Oxford, where,
often on his motor-cycle, he was a
familiar figure. Murray believed that
Western civilisation owed its finest insti-
tutions to Hellenism —its legal system
(via Rome) for. one thing; its religion
(via St. Paul) for another.
I have just read a letter, dated March
22, which he wrote to another Greek
scholar, Miss Nancy Jobson, of Sydney,
in reply to one which she wrote him
describing the Melbourne Olympic
Games. In it he deplores “the great loss
to the general civilisation and culture of
the world that the study of Greek has
become so much an option in university
studies —and, I fear, in most of the Com-
monwealth a rather rare option! ” He
wonders “a great deal whether the
Olympic Games will have reawakened
an interest in Hellenism.” Numbers of
us will have our doubts. For a nona-
genarian his handwriting was bold and
clear.
• •
Victoria has never had a Commissioner
of Police like the current top man -at
Russell-street, Major-General Selwyn
Havelock Watson Craig Porter, C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., E.D. —he understands the value
of public-relations. Porter earns £74 a week
as a policeman and it isn’t difficult to imagine
him making more than that as a professional
public-relations man: which, considering his
military background—he was commissioned in
1924-Hs somewhat surprising. His Army
cobbers describe him as steady, orthodox, quiet,
unspectacular and efficient, but he has come out
of his military shell in the last couple of years.
He looks in on police parties and even police-
unioa meetings; at parties he likes to be one of
t! ; boys, and at association meetings he is
prepared to answer Questions. Within a few
months of his appointment he had visited each
of the 400 police-stations in Victoria.
But his public-relations work doesn’t stop
there. He not only wants public co-operation
POLICE COMMISSIONER
with the police—he takes the trouble to tell
the public all about it. He attends public
meetings and always has something to say. When
he became Commissioner the traffic-toll was
mounting steadily. He tackled the problem so
enthusiastically that newspaper-readers soon
became accustomed to such headlines as “Police
Chief Arrests Alleged Traffic Offender.” Next he
concentrated on child crime—so wholeheartedly
that there was hardly a mothers’ meeting for
some months without Porter being there and
getting up to give,warnings and advice.
His zeal hasn’t met with unqualified approval
—people with a keen sense of civil liberty and a
distrust of the military mind have been uneasy
at times. But Porter seems blithely unaware of
any reservations on the part of those who watch
his campaigns, he has rid the Force of a
variety of evildoers, and it is generally conceded
that, on the whole, he has done a good job. He


has a disarming manner, an unshakable reputa-
tion as a straight-dealer, and is a gentleman.
Born at Tintaldra (Vic.) and educated at
Wangaratta High and Melbourne University (he
has a Melbourne Diploma of Commerce), Porter
was a Permanent Army major when War II
broke out and was seconded to the A.I.F. late
in 1939. He was wearing a pip and crown in
1941, a crown and three pips in 1942, and
became entitled to a Major-General’s pip and
crossed swords in 1950. In Borneo in mid-
-1953 for the dedication of the cross of sacrifice
for the Labuan war-cemetery (he had com-
manded a brigade at an earlier Borneo landing)
he heard of his appointment to the top civilian-
soldier job—C.M.F. member on the Military
Board. He became Police Commissioner in
1954. after a period as Myer’s personnel
manager.
• •
It isn’t so long since there were six
members of the Supreme Court bench
in Victoria, and only a few years longer
since there were four. The recent
appointment of A. D. G. Adam, Q.C.,
makes the round dozen justices—the next
chap, no doubt, will hesitate before he
climbs up.
Mr. Justice Adam has been one of the
most respected members of the Victorian
Bar since his admission in 1928, and he
had a term as leader. His practice has
been chiefly in equity, and he was lecturer
on real property at Melbourne Univer-
sity for just on 20 years. His appointment
was necessary because Mr. Justice
Sholl will be absent from the Bench for
some time and the Chief Justice, Sir
Edmund Herring, is acting as Governor.
Victorian judges have most lists well
in hand ; there is a lag in the hearing of
defended divorce actions, but Barry, J.,
polished off 350 undefended actions
in a month.
Much of the delay in hearings in Vic-
toria is due to the inability of solicitors
to cope with their work, due partly to
lack of accommodation and staff, particu-
larly law-clerks, a dying race who haven’t
been encouraged much in recent years and
have never been adequately paid.
• •
“M.G.S.”: Visiting his home-town, Rovi
Pavinoff, better known when a small boy with
an urge for dancing as Philip Marks, ol Albert
Park, Melbourne. The theatre was in Ids blood,
and he was soon training with Lucia Sa>ranova, a
brilliant dancer and present ballet-mistress of
the National Ballet. He went abroad on the
advice of Victor Dandre, Pavlova's husband,
arrived in England, and a few days later had an
audition —audition doesn't seem to be quite the
right word —with Ninette de Valois, directress of
Sadler’s Wells, and was promptly engaged for
the Sadler’s Wells ballet. He was touring with
them when Michael Fokine observed him and
engaged him for the Ballets Russe de Monte
Carlo. With this great master he trained for
Harlequin in “Carnaval” and “Les Sylphides,”
and Fokine also initiated him into “Le Spectre
de la Rose,” the role he created for the ill-
fated Nijinsky. During the war-years the Anglo-
Polish ballet was formed in London, opening
at the Apollo Theatre when the Windmill was
the only other London theatre open during the
blitz. Later the International Ballet was
formed, and Pavirtoff joined it as the male
star. The female star was Moira Shearer, who
danced her first important role with him in
“Planetomania.” In 1946 Pavinoff formed his
own company. His appearances in Europe have
not been confined to ballet. He has danced
in musicals, revue and panto, and has been in
the same teams at the London Coliseum as
Cicely Courtneidge, Tommy Trindcr, Bobby
Howes, Pat Kirkwood and Fay Compton. He
and Robert Helpmann are the only Australians
who have reached the rank of “premier dan§eur
ttoile.” His mother was a dancer, and his
father sang bass baritone opposite Melba. He
is considering the prospects of forming his own
Australian ballet.
• •
“P.L.”: Here in New Zealand there
have been a number of tributes to
A. R. D. Fairburn (B. 29/5/'57) since his
death —the latest was a reading of his
poetry at the Wellington Public Library
to a capacity crowd. James Bertram,
senior lecturer in English at Victoria
University College, presided, and said
that while it was doubtful if many of
those who receive civic honors would be
remembered the names of two New
Zealand poets, Fairburn and R. A. K.
Mason, would be ; Fairburn had gone,
but it was not too late for Mason ... It
was not suggested that Rex died of a
broken heart because he hadn’t been in-
cluded in such honors —no one who knew
him could think that. If ever an N.Z.
writer tilted at our attitudes and conven-
tions it was this six-foot-two of many-
sided energy. Over the years he had
laughed long at himself and the world,
and civilised people loved him for it. He
was, as Denis Glover has said, our only
humorist. He was also generous, and
in his day helped many young writers.
• ®
Sketched in when the All
Blacks were here —they’ll be back to
play the Barbarians at North Sydney on
June 17 ; today (June 5) they play New
England at Gunnedah —A. R. (“Ponty”)
Reid, the N.Z. captain, is only sft. 3in.
and 9st. 61b. “Good little men” crop
up in all sports, of course, but in Rugby
Union (and League), they are liable to
have hefty fellows of 16st. and there-
abouts falling on them, which eventually
takes the fire out of all but the keenest.
“Ponty,” one of the smallest half-backs
to don an All Black jersey, is 28, teaches
school at Hamilton, and learned his
Rugby Union at New Plymouth High,
where he captained the first XV in his
PONTY REID
last year. Played for Auckland Teachers’
College, then for Raglan Club, Waikato,
and got his chance in the Waikato-King
Country-Thames Valley team against the
British Isles. He came to Australia in
1951, and, after bad luck with injuries,
was out of big football for a couple of
seasons. But he was rated one of the five
players of the year in the 1955 Rugby
Almanack of N.Z., and was behind the
N.Z. scrum in the third and fourth Tests
last year.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 70, Edwin Tooth, founder in
1923 of Austral Motors, and since then its
chairman of directors. In the past three years
he had given away £105,000, for medical
research and for educational and Teligious
purposes. K.B. in the last New Year’s Honors
List.
In Melbourne, at 70, Percy Francis Crawford,
who began as office-boy at the New Opera
House, Melbourne, in 1901, suggested in 1911
to its new owner, Hugh D. Mclntosh, that it be
renamed the Tivoli, and, after holding down
just about every job in the place, was still at
his desk there, as publicity-director, a few days
before his death.
In Sydney, W. C. Bull, member of the Board
of Cricket Control 1925-35, and hon. treasurer
of the board 1930-35. Elected a life-member of
the N.S.W.C.A. in 1937.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 61, Arthur Percy
Postlewaite. President of the Auckland R.S.A.
for 12 years, Anzac Day 1957 was the first
he had missed for a long time. Wounded on
Gallipoli when he was 17, he was a foundation-
member of the R.S.A., held the Certificate of
Merit and the Gold Star Badge, and was a c.ty
councillor from 1953 to 1956.
At the Repatriation Hospital, Heidelberg,
John Dodds Mack, grandson of Joseph
Gardiner Mack, who founded Berrybank station
over a hundred years ago. At the outbreak of
the 1914-1918 war he was managing Yarto and
St. Andrews stations; then he enlisted in the
Blh Light Horse. He was at Gallipoli landing,
and saw service in Syria, Palestine and Egypt.
In 1919 he founded Royston, at Hillston,
N.S.W. He was a foundation-member of the
Lachlan Picnic Race Club, of which he was
president and secretary. He trained and rode
his own horses and was well known as an
amateur rider.
In Brisbane, at 57, Christopher S. Coll,
Assistant Under-Secretary of Queensland Health
and Home Affairs Department. In the ’thirties
he was private-secretary to E. M. Hanlon, later
Premier, when he was Health and Home
Affairs Minister.
In Melbourne, at 83, Herbert John Green,
former Commonwealth and Victorian Govern-
ment printer. He was married to sculptress Ola
Cohn.
In Sydney, at 63, Ramon Mas, former Acting
Consul-General for Spain in Australia. He was
the first man to produce mushrooms com-
mercially in Australia, and wrote on natural
history.
In Melbourne, at 89, Dr. W. E. Jones, who
came here from Wales in 1905 to become
Inspector-General of the Victorian Department
of Hospitals for the Insane. He was responsible
for the building of several mental hospitals,
and for much of Victoria’s mental-health
legislation.
In Sydney, Ellis Price, known in radio as “The
Prince of Storytellers.” On the stage for many
years, he was one of the first radio-actors with
the A.B.C.
In Hobart, at 67, H. T. Parker, M.A., who,
in 1922, became the Tasmanian Education
Department’s first psychologist. He retired in
1954.
In Sydney, at 64, William Thompson Carr,
one of Australia’s best-known Boy Scout
officials. Served as a machine-gunner in World
War I.
In Melbourne, at 77, Hector C. Marshall,
who for many years carried on the manufactur-
ing business of Marshall Shoes, founded in the
’seventies by his father, William Marshall.


ABORIGINALITIES
TTHE tiger-cat may be reputedly one
our wildest marsupials, but a colony
of Dasyurus maculatus has for at least
40 years enjoyed the comparatively open
spaces of Studley Park, just five miles
from Melbourne G.P.O. On an early
spring morning in 1916 I saw Junior,
under the tutelage of Mum and Dad,
stalking a grasshopper just above Dight’s
Falls, and last week I picked up Dad in
my headlights crossing Walmer-street,
homeward-bound with a White Leghorn
for supper. You can bet that a lot of
Kew residents are blaming Reynard for
poultry misdeeds that belong properly to
old Spotty.—“Sevenelms.”
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: “Great flyers, these
bantams,” I said to the grizzled old out-
back fowl-fancier. “Best I know,” he
agreed. “Lost a prize cockerel once.
Found it three months later at a navvies’
camp down the line. Flew 50 miles, that
bird. Had its wing cut, too. Wonderful
flyers, all right.”
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”: Noticed a report of
the passing of a retired bank-manager
whom I had known in Queensland in the
heart of the prickly-pear and death-adder
country. The manager’s daughter and I,
out riding on Sunday, stopped at a
selector’s home to get our bearings, and
he produced a bottle of prickly-pear
wine, which he’d made himself. We
liked its sweetness, plus its lolly-water
“effect,” and thankfully accepted a
couple of bottles “for the road,” con-
sumed them on the ride back to town,
and arrived at the girl’s home as full as
googs. If her old man had had a gun
handy I wouldn’t be writing this par. My
hangover lasted two days; the girl’s
nearly a week, and I’ve been a beer-
drinker ever since.
* * * *
“Nildem”: One of the small and lesser-
known items of our export trade to
America is that of camels, or, rather, their
close relatives the dromedaries —made
possible because of their freedom from
foot-and-mouth disease. They will thus
be returning to their original home,
though how they got from the American
continent to Asia and Africa is a moot
point possibly across a land-bridge
from Alaska to Russia.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: Telephone authori-
ties in New Guinea have problems that
mainlanders never know. For example,
overhead lines are constantly being cut by
natives anxious to get wire for rigging
sailing-craft, including canoes. As well,
gun-happy natives are causing as much
damage as irresponsible vandals else-
where ; in a recent week more than 100
insulators on the line between Port
Moresby and Sogeri were broken by
bullets. The word has gone out that
imprisonment with hard labor
awaits anyone caught at it.
* * * *
“Ceg”: At a talkie in Mel-
bourne, all color, all Cinema-
Scope, all magnificence, I
couldn’t help thinking of the
silents we used to enjoy so
much at a small far-western
town in N.S.W. The travelling
show arrived weekly, and the
small hall was right opposite
the only pub in the town. A
stout female of the parish
perched high on a platform
selected rolls of suitable music
for the player-piano. During
the interval most of the audi-
ence drifted over to the pub.
The piano-player lady was keen
on her pots, and it was our
whim to see that she had what
she wanted. When the show
resumed it was “Stars and
Stripes for Ever” played over
and over again, and when the
roll was run back it sounded
like a machine-gun. One night
in the middle of the picture
there was a resounding crash
as the lady, wildly clutching
the stool, fell off the platform
on to the floor. From then
on the picture was truly silent.
You don’t get entertainment
like that nowadays.
THE GRASS-PARROTS AND
THE MAN
For a moment, he thought that flowers
Had grown overnight;
But it had been a trick, a quirk
Of morning light.
Nothing could bloom so soft and warm,
Mornings like these;
Nor move, with the wind still huddled
Against the trees.
And yet, he saw the scarlet still,
And golden stem.
With the sun not shone on seven ?
He fancied them.
It was the sun on a spear of ice —
Some prismic play.
( It’s late, and the milking still not done)
Oh, come away.
And as he turned, they fled the grass
In startled shower.
And the wintering cedar-trees
Burst into flower.
N.s w.
ANNE BELL.


/Mo, m£ CN£ I WANT
ig uKe that ose TH6RF wflH
WHITE SIPEWAU tyRES.
SPORTY TYPE


/^AMP-OVENS —the big ones with three
short legs and with lids like flying-
saucers—are becoming genuine antiques ;
one manufacturer is still producing a
12in. job of cast-iron. Bedourie-ovens
up to 12in. are also obtainable. But
these are only pack-horse jobs. Babblers
in big stock-camps on the large cattle-
stations in the north-west of Queensland
and in the Territory have to cook for up
to 30 ringers. Some have to use a 12in.
oven, which is comparable to boiling tea
for a picnic in a clutch of fruit-tins. So,
if anyone knows where ye olde camp-
ovens 20in. to 24in. in diameter can be
obtained, dough-roasters who operate in
the hoof-an’-horn districts of the big
State will be delighted to hear about it.
—“Bulltosser.”
* * * *
“Jay-R.”: South Queensland missed
entirely on the usual wet-season rains,
and there was a squeal from house-
holders when some districts introduced
milkless days. As one farmer said, some-
what wearily, the average townsman will
never believe there is a drought on while
water flows from the household taps.
An urban matron, faced with milkless tea,
said sulkily to the press; “There never
was a shortage of milk in the old days,
before the factory got hold of it. Every-
one knows the factory’s holding it
against a price-rise!” A sour note, a
sour note.
* * * *
“Liewah”: With extension of the
Burrum River water-supply to Hervey
Bay (Sth. Qld.) rates soared, and many
elderly retired people had to sell their
properties. Now the council announces
a filtration-plant costing £150,000, an
additional £3 a householder in annual
rates, to make the water drinkable.
Many ratepayers feel they would rather
accept the muddy Burrum as is. Asked
one old chap his honest opinion of the
water.. He said it was right enough. His
garden throve on it, and “The daughter
baths the kid in it. ’Course,” he added
hastily, “I wouldn’t put it in me rum.”
* * * *
“Moorapi”: Queensland Railways
having changed the name of Baking
Board to Mandanyi, residents sent in such
a strong protest-petition that the old name
has been restored. Baking Board was the
label given to the district by drovers who
made dampers on the same sheet of bark
in the same place on every trip, long
before the railway was built in 1878. The
Mandanyi were an abo. tribe that roamed
those parts.
* * * «
“Sevenelms”: Excusable the consterna-
tion of “Brick E.” (B. 24/4/’57) at finding
his camphor-laurel reeking of terpene, yet
borer-riddled. The Malayan camphor-
wood, Dryobanalops aromatica, of the
entirely different order Dipterocarpacece,
also produces a timber valuably repellent
to lyctus, anobium, termite, moth, fungus-
rot, etc. —yet it is the one standing tree
in Malaya which is considerably pene-
trated by pinhole borers, and no saw-
miller expects to convert from his kapur-
logs more than 33J- per cent. No. 1 grade
(free of pinhole). And it is reasonable
also for the gardener who strews tobacco-
dust around as a pest-discourager to
wonder why the commercial tobacco-plant
is so sorely beset by multitudes of slugs
and insects.
* * * *
“Kros”: Towards the end of last year
an expedition to Mexico, led by a
Canadian archaeologist, found proof that
a Mexican civilisation of about 6200 b.c.
“We allasame Pilgrim Fathers and Mayflower !"
possessed a system of organised farming ;
and this is claimed to be the earliest
known date in history at which man grew
his own food. Appropriately in this
atomic age, the date was ascertained by
measuring the amount of radioactive
carbon on some plantlife the expedition
discovered —a lima-bean pod, a squash
and a rind of gourd, all of which were
proved to have been cultivated, though
how this was proved has not been
reported. As for the claim of being the
oldest farming, I would have thought that
either Egypt or China, which can’t be
far behind, anyway, would have had that
honor —not that any of the three countries
has made that much use of all this long
agricultural practice and experience.
“VVandana”: It is possible that, as
“E-& O-E.” suggests (B. 1/5/’57),
Christina Rossetti’s pet wombats came
from Tassie, whose species, although
different from the mainland’s, seems to
have just as bad a reputation for burrow-
ing. With its coarse grey fur (of no
market-value), the wombat was called a
“badger” by the early settlers because it
distantly resembled the English animal.
About the same size, it also excavates
burrows for a habitation ; but one dis-
tinction between them is that the badger
.is a flesh-eater, the wombat is vegetarian.
The infant wombat has a small tail, but
this disappears as the animal grows. In
early days wombat-meat used to figure
on the menu as “badger-meat,” and
“badger-ham” was a handy stand-in in
bush homes. Full-grown, it’s about the
size of an ordinary pig.
* * * *
“Edx”: Can’t concede that cigar-box
cedar, with a growing-rate of 160 ft. in
20 years and sft. through, must be the
second-fastest-growing tree to balsa (B.
15/5/’57). Bluegum is a famous fast-
grower, and was noted by von Mueller
to have grown 120 ft. in 12 years with a
9ft. diameter in South America, and
100 ft. in 12 years, 6ft. through, in India.
The fact that these rates probably exceed
any authenticated local recorded figures
should raise no eyebrows; it is well


known that trees planted in a favorable
environment of soil, climate and altitude
will sometimes do better in a foreign land
to which the species was previously un-
known than they do at home. If
“Macquarie’s” figures for cedar are its
South American rate it may be that they
will be exceeded in Queensland. Pro-
bably the fastest-growing vegetables of
any size are some of the bamboos, which,
though strictly not trees, have a tree-like
appearance. Species of this colossal herb
reach 150 ft. in parts of India, China and
Java, early growth being at the rate of a
yard a day, 18ft. a month, and up to 50ft.
in the season.
’AYE A BANANA!
By “B-HERD”
I’M drifting along the road in
the truck, shifting the bees to the
next site, when 1 see the bananas.
Great bunches of them, like tropical
cacti, festooning the roadside stall.
I hit the brakes and stare back, and my
eyes hit upon the vendor —raven-haired,
mystei/-eyed . . . from one of those
countries.
I can’t fathom the message in her eyes
from tHis distance. Later —about twelve-
dozen bunches later —I calculate it to be:
“Come in, sucker.”
The transaction . . . simplicity itself.
Take out a truckload of bunches. Those
westernites never hear of cheap banans.
A bunch at every homestead, a hand at
the old retired folk’s home on the ridge,
and the culls at the rabbiter’s camp.
Simple. And money for petrol.
“They won’t bruise,” she says. “This
one,” she says, and I have the beautiful,
restful feeling that the bird has when it
listens to the python ; “this one will cost
you a pound, but out there you could
ask anything for it. This one . . .”
I drive away with twelve-dozen
bunches bristling like green cacti on the
bee-truck.
First stopping-place on the route the
temperature falls away to nothing. “Yes,
bananas can chill,” she had said. “And
go black.”
Twelve-doz. of black banans!
’ I pull in sharp, under some frozen
pinnacle of elm or spruce or some such,
and bed those banans down. I gather
wood, light a fire at each comer, and all
night long I tend those flies.
What vainglorious understatement!
At what point does petrol explode? At
what stage does cooked twelve-ply give
out? Is brake-fluid affected by boiling?
A dozen other precise calculations
spread out and intermingle with log-
hauling and water-carrying all the long
night.
The banans, at sunrise, may be smoked,
could possibly be slightly braised, but,
brother, frozen, no!
1 leave the granite eyrie behind me and
the four piles of stringy-ash to set an
enigma impossible of solution, and I
drop down to the first squatter. The big,
red-roofed homestead and the sheds and
the flowers set me looking for the trades-
man-entrance sign. The squatter-man
approaches, white-corduroy, riding-boots,
grazier-hat—the whole works.
“Good lord,” he vouchsafes, “I
couldn’t use a bunch ! Give me a dozen.”
The road is two mile back if it’s a
chain.
The next place I sell a bunch.
Admitted, I drop the price to just a little
more than half she’d fixed for me.
The next place the dog bites me —I’m
not romancing. The people are out. The
pooch lets me in, lets me walk up and
knock and lean the big, green bunch on
the wall. And when I stoop to hoist it up
again, he’s all bark and teeth and noise
an inch or two from my ankle.
I’ve heard my share of dog-lore. I’ve
reckoned I’m all right with dogs. Talk
to them, man to man, friendly, conver-
sationlike. Reach for the banans. Then he
bites me
I suppose those station people are still
nutting out what mate left them that
beautiful bunch of Cavendish.
Fifteen-mile towards the border I sell
another bunch. They cut short my sale-
jargon: “. . . hang up, keep dark, use
carbide . . . good for the children” —
“Hummph .... poor specimens. Not
filled out. Plucked too green, son. Who
sold you this stuff? Should know some-
thing about them. Was growin’ them for
fifteen years. However, it’s good of y’.
We need someone to swipe the feet from
these local shysters. I’ll take that littie
bunch.”
By nightfall I’ve reached
Just a minute, son. You’ll be goin’
back to this town next spring!
All right, by nightfall I’ve reached my
goal. I made petrol from the last town.
Next morning I set myself up like I’ve
seen those fellows do down the coast.
Back the truck into the kerb, get out the
apron to hold the money. Yes, lady. No,
lady. And there you are, the truck’s
empty.
For a long time nothing happens.
Then the butcher strolls over. He
slouches where he stands, and casts a
jaundiced eye over the load.
“Huh. Green, eh? What’s the use of
green bananas, hey? What? Y’ ripen
’em? Aw, y* shoulda done that before y’
come, son. Nobody here un’stands
ripenin’ bananas.”
He walks, clucking in the mouth, back
to his shop.
The place slowly comes alive. A little
old and wizened gnome comes up, cheer-
ful as a cicada.
“Ho, what, eh, bananas? Seventy yeers
I bin here an’ I ain’t never seen such a
sight. Go’ Lorry be! There must be
sixty-thousan’ there, boy, eh? Differen’
breed too. Green bananas, hey? Hard,
too. eh? These a cookin’ kind, are they?”
Then, from over in the pub where
already the publican has made enough
petrol to take him twice round the
country, a voice—one of them bush
voices—yells :
“Git away from those bananas,
Charlie! They’ll make y’ crook!”
I go round to the cab and sit on the
mudguard, and I’ve fished out The
Bully when the sweetest little voice in
world asks me, “How much a bunch,
for, say, that lovely bunch there?”
I stay on for a bit. Finally, the remarks
from the pub become pointed: “Who
does he think he is, anyway? What
makes him think we’ll eat bloody green
bananas? Move him on, Joe.”
After a while I decide I’ll shift a bit
down the street.
Halfway down there’s a cleared space.
Three old trucks on it, and a Knock-’em-
down stand, open for business. Further
over a kid’s merry-go-round Hingin’ itself
round with no riders.
A fellow with a tiny apron stands
beside the Knock-’em stall tossing three
wooden balls, and up and down the open-
air aisle strides a big fellow, looking
fixedly at the grass as he walks and now
and then putting his hand to the side of
his mouth and saying, in a deep, vibrant
and beautiful voice:
“Yes, this is it, ladies and gentlemen!
The monster Fun Fair and Carnival!
Don’t miss this chance of joy and happi-
ness, people! Come along and join in.
Fun for young and old. Good clean an’
harmless fun, people.”
This fellow looks the greatest yokel in
{Continued on page 49)


Business, Robbery, Etc.
Wool Prices
AS the 1956-57 woolselling
season draws to a close
the effects of drought are
evident in some of the offerings
at auction, with a consequent
bearing on prices. Dry weather
in some areas has resulted in
early shearing before the wool
has grown to its normal length ;
these short wools have been
selling at prices as much as 10
p.c. below the recent levels
ruling for average types of
wool.
United Kingdom support has
also been affected lately by
financial problems arising from
the recent high prices.
Exports of wool during the
10 months to the end of April
totalled £4Ol million —an in-
crease of £134 million over
shipments for the correspond-
ing period of the previous
season. The volume shipped
was up 21 p.c., and higher
prices accounted for the
remainder of the increase.
Japan closely approached the
United Kingdom in its pur-
chases —-the U.K. took 25 p.c.
of shipments, Japan 22y p.c.
Among major buyers the
U.S.A. was at the bottom of
the list with 3.3 p.c., compared
with 5 p.c. in the preceding
season.
Largely because of the bigger
wool income, but helped by an
increasing return from metals,
sugar and other production,
Australia’s export income
promises to exceed £lOOO
million during 1956-57 —for the
first time.
Patons and Baldwins
CJTABLE (or rising) wool
prices last year removed any
stock worries from the list of
Patons and Baldwins’ trading
problems, and modernisation
and extension of the plant
helped with production and
quality. No general increase
has been made in the co.’s sell-
ing-prices for several years,
but last term profits rose to
£511,070, compared with
£371,211 in the preceding year,
and the ord. dividend, increased
from 7| p.c. to "By p.c. (calling
for £165,000), was very com-
fortably covered.
The sharemarket had been
expecting a better year, the
shares showing appreciation to
275. 6d. - over a period of
months, but results were better
than expected, and latest sales
have been made at 325.
The company has been
extremely conservative in its
financing, and in the absence
of a serious setback in the wool
market a steady but unspec-
tacular improvement in the
dividend may reasonably be
expected over the next few
years. It has great inner
strength in the book-value of
its fixed assets.
Aluminium and Power
YjUITH the Commonwealth
Government’s decision to
sell its half-interest in New
Guinea Resources Prospecting
Co. to Consolidated Zinc at an
unstated figure interest has
again swung North Aus-
tralia and New Guinea. The
work of the prospecting co.
has revealed the possibility of
establishing a hydroelectric
scheme in Papua big enough to
support “a very large
aluminium industry,” and
“large deposits of suitable-
grade bauxite at Gove, in
Arnhem Land,” are spoken
of. Consolidated Zinc, of
course, has been investigating
huge deposits of bauxite in
Cape York.
A correspondent, “Kilo-
watt,” earlier wrote to The
Bulletin warning against
encouraging the belief that
bauxite at Cape York means
that Australia should embark
on the large-scale production
of aluminium. The same
correspondent has now sent in
a quotation from “The Metal
Industry,” published in Lon-
don, in which it is reported
that J. M. Wardle, a scientist
and engineer, proposes to
reverse the direction of the
flow of the upper reaches of
Canada’s Yukon River, and so
provide, by one vast hydro-
electric scheme, 5-million horse-
power of electricity. “The
production of aluminium,
which requires the equivalent
of 10 domestic units of elec-
tricity for every pound pro-
duced, is the motivating force
behind this scheme, although
there are possibilities for the
development of the region’s
nickel and lead.”
“The Metal Industry” says
the plan is to make the
British Commonwealth inde-
pendent of foreign sources
of metal-supply, and that
“it is quite possible that Aus-
tralia would be sending raw
aluminium to Australia for
refining.” But the consent of
the U.S. Government would
appear to be necessary to the
hydro scheme. Of the Yukon
River’s 1700 miles, only 570
miles are in Canada.
“Kilowatt,” in his letter,
says that “apparently the
power potential of this one
Canadian river is about double
the present rate of consump-
tion of electrical energy in Aus-
tralia.” That is so, provided
the 5-million h.p. can be
developed.
Information of this kind
goes to add weight to Supply
Minister Beale’s comment that
“And some mugs reckon crime don't pay!"
in respect of the New Guinea
and Arnhem Land proposition
“costly and exhaustive investi-
gations will be necessary to
prove the economic soundness
of the scheme.” Of course, it
may apply almost equally to
the Canadian scheme. Con-
solidated Zinc seems cautiously
optimistic about prospects at
Cape York, as indicated on
page 30 of this issue.
E.M.I. (Australia), Ltd.
TN 1925 the Gramophone Co.,
-*■ Ltd., of England, manufac-
turers of His Master’s Voice
products, established a record-
factory at Erskineville (N.S.W.).
About the same time Columbia
Graphophone (Aust.), Ltd., set-
up a similar factory at Home-
bush. In 1931, following a
merger in England, these two
Australian organisations and
the Australian branch of the
Parlophone Co. came under
one control, and concentrated
operations in the Homebush
factory.
The recording of transcrip-
tions for broadcasting com-
menced in 1936, and in the
same year the first Australian-
made H.M.V. radio-receivers
were produced. These were
followed by radiograms and
other record-playing equip-
ment. Records manufactured
now are H.M.V., Columbia,
Parlophone, Regal-Zonophone,
Capitol, Waldorf, M.-G.-M.
and Decca.
The present operating com-
pany, E.M.I. (Aust.), Ltd,, was
formed as a proprietary in
1948, and now has the follow-
ing active wholly-owned Aus-
tralian subsidiaries: Hayes
Properties Pty., Ltd. (owning
and managing the group’s
various freeholds); E.M.I.
Finance Corp. Pty., Ltd. (hire-
purchase finance) ; and Tele-
vision Patents Pty., Ltd.
Present headquarters of the
group are in its own building
at 301 Castlereagh - street,
Sydney. A new modern factory
alongside the old one at Home-
bush will help on the TV side
of the business.
In addition to its own manu-
factured lines, the co. has made
for it refrigerators, freezers and
air-conditioning units which it
markets under the H.M.V.
brand. Radio programmes are
also recorded for commercial
sponsors in the group’s studios.
Following a capital recon-
struction and formation into a
public co., E.M.I. (Aust.) last
week offered the public 500,000
£1 ords. at par.
Prior to this offer, the shares
in Hayes Properties were up-
valued by £372,051 (based on
the value of the freeholds), and
a bonus-issue of 300,000 f.-p.
£1 deferred ords. was made to
present shareholders. In addi-
tion, 248,250 £1 ords. were
issued at par to Electrical and
Musical Industries (Eng.) in
satisfaction of a debt.
When the public issue is
taken up, E.M.I. will have a
paid capital of £1,300,000 in a
million ordinaries and the
balance in deferreds.
The deferreds are not entitled


to a div. until the ords. have
had 8 p.c., in which case they
may be paid up to 5 p.c. If
the ords. get over 8 p.c., the
deferreds participate pari passu
with them after receiving their
5 p.c. After the ords. have
had 40 p.c. in any five-year
period (with not less than 8 p.c.
in any year of the period) the
restrictions on the deferreds
disappear. In the event of a
wind-up during the restricted
period the deferreds rank after
the ords. for return of capital.
In a redrafted balance-sheet,
assets total £3,002,563, capital
£1,300,000, reserves £81,830
net, deferred liabilities (includ-
ing £633,990 owing to the
English co.) £796,520, and other
liabilities (including £145,000
provision for a dividend)
£844,213.
Net tangible asset cover for
the ords. on this basis was
275. 6d. a share.
" Over the past five years net
earnings of the group, allowing
for public-co. tax, were equal
to 7.2 p.c., 1.6 p.c., 16.8 p.c.,
14.7 p.c. and 14 p.c. (1956)
NEW BROKEN HILL CONSOLIDATED LIMITED
RECORD OUTPUT
OUT FREIGHT INCREASES LARGELY ABSORB INCREASED REVENUE
The Twenty-first Annual Meeting of New
Broken Hill Consolidated Limited will be
held on 26th June, at 37 Dover Street,
London.
The following are extracts from the
circulated' statement by the ‘Chairman,
Mr. L. B. Robinson.
It becomes,my privilege this year to submit to
you the review of the activities of the Company
for 1956. In doing so, 1 wish first to pay
tribute to our late Chairman and devoted
colleague, Mr. John Romaine Govett, who
passed away in November.
It is difficult to measure in words the debt
which this Company owes to Mr. Govett lor
the very major part he has played in building
the Company’s mine up to its present position
as the second largest producer in the Broken
Hill field. He became a Director of this Com-
pany on its formation in 1936, and has been
Chairman since 1941. His determination that,
as soon as hostilities were ended, no effort should
be spared in making up for lost time in the
development of the Company’s mine was largely
responsible for the planning and initiation of the
ten-year programme in 1945.
The results for 1956 show a profit before
taxation of £1,991,129, compared with £1,850,449
for 1955, an increase of £140,680.
Production of ore reached a record figure, and
although the average grade was lower than in
1955 the production of recoverable lead in lead
concentrates was higher. The tonnage of lead
realised in 1956 was higher than in the previous
year, but, due to the incidence of shipping, was
91% of the production, compared with 98% for
1955. The average realised prices for lead and
zinc concentrates were higher than for 1955, but
ocean freights were also considerably higher, and
absorbed much of the increased revenue from
Sales. The cost per ton of ore at Broken Hill
-—including milling cost —increased by approxi-
mately 7%, which was almost entirely accounted
for by an increase in the charge to revenue for
mine development and an increase in production
from square-set slopes. The lead bonus per ton
of ore increased from 20.38/- to 21.19/-.
The charge for taxation was much higher in
1956. and amounted to £1,116,600, compared
with £903,386 for 1955, an increase of £213,214.
The major part of this increase is due to the
increased rate of profits tax applicable to the
last three-quarters of the year and to the addi-
tional profits tax on the increased distribution.
Provision for United Kingdom taxation has
been based on the existing legislation, and any
adjustments which may result from the Finance
Bill 1957, when this is enacted, and, in particular,
from the provisions relating to Overseas Trade
Corporations, will be made in the accounts for
1957. It is too soon to assess accurately the
benefits which the Company should derive from
these provisions, but, from an examination of the
Bill as published, it appears that the Company
should qualify as an Overseas Trade
Corporation.
Due to the heavy taxation charge the net profit
for the year, at £874,529, is £72,534 lower than
for 1955.
A transfer has been made to General Reserve
of £150,000, compared with £300,000 for 1955.
An interim dividend of 2/- per share has been
paid, being the same as that for i955, and it is
proposed that a final dividend of 3/- per share
be paid, compared with 2/6 per share for 1955,
giving a total distribution for the year of 5/-
per share, compared with 4/6 per share for
1955. These dividends, payable less income tax,
require £690',559, leaving a surplus of £339,635
to be carried forward, an increase of £33,970.
Capital expenditure during 1956 amounted to
£297,841 on mine development, and £.140,854
on machinery, plant, buildings and equipment,
making a total of £438,695. .*
Production
Ore production from the Company’s leases in
1956 totalled 606,325 tons, compared with
531,447 tons in 1955, an average of 2,516 tons
of crude ore per day, as against 2,252 tons per
day for 1955. Operations were earned out for
241 days; there was one stop-work day during
negotiations for the new Mines industrial
Agreement and two days were lost due to fatal
accidents which occurred on the Zinc Corpora-
tion leases.
The operating efficiencies, measured by the
output per mining-department-employee-shift,
rose from 3.92 in 1955 to 4.37 in 1956. The
output per contract-miner-shift (excluding the
sub-level stope on No. 16 Level) showed a
slight fall to 16.54 as against 16.91 tons in 1955;
this was attributable to the increase in the
proportion of ore mined in square-set stopes
from 0.1% in 1955 to 7% in 1956. The output
from the sub-level stope increased from 25.72 in
1955 to 36.68 tons per coniract-miner-shift in
1956.
The ore milled and concentrates produced in
1956 compared with 1955 are as follows:
1956 1955
Ore milled, tons 605,560 530,044
Lead concentrate produced,
tons 65,489 58,254
Grade —
Lead, per cent 76.3 76.5
Silver, ounces 18.4 14.6
Containing—
Recoverable Lead, tons 47,949 42,767
Silver, ounces 1,206,308 848,350
Zinc concentrate produced,
tons .. .. 137,990 133,695
Grade —
Zinc, per cent 52.2 51.3
Of the total ore milled, 590.970 tons were
treated in the New Broken Hill Consolidated
mill, and 14,590 tons in the Zinc Corporation
mill.
The recoveries of lead and silver in lead
concentrates and zinc in zinc concentrates are
as follows:
1956 1955
Lead 94.7% 94.9%
Silver 89.7% 89.4%
Zinc 92.6% 94.0%
The figures for 1955 include the lead and
silver recovered in the lead-copper concentrate.
The recovery of zinc in the zinc concentrate
was lower due to the combined effect of a
lower zinc content of the mill feed and an
increase of zinc in the final residue.
Realisations
Realisations as compared with 1955 were as
follows:
1956 1955
Recoverable Lead, tons .. 44,044 41,914
Silver, ounces 988,731 787,030
Zinc concentrate, tons .. 124,191 117,811
Ore Reserves
The ore reserves fully outlined and
developed ready for stoping or in the process
of being stoped, as at 31st December, 1956,
totalled 3,200,000 tons, assaying 10.7% lead,
2.7 ounces silver and 10.7% zinc, compared with
3,000,000 tons at 31st December, 1955, assaying
11.0% lead, 2.7 ounces silver and 12% zinc.
Surface Plant and Construction
All plant and equipment operated satis-
factorily. No. 2 changehouse was completed
early in the year and work is proceeding on a
mechanised timber storage and handling area
which will combine these facilities for New
Broken Hill Consolidated and the Zinc
Corporation.
Industrial Relations
The industrial relations with the unions and
the Barrier Industrial Council have been good,
and the new Industrial Agreement was satis-
factorily concluded for a period of three years.
Lead and Zinc Markets
As regards the markets for lead and zinc, I
would repeat as on former occasions the state-
ment 1 am making to members of The
Consolidated Zinc Corporation Limited :
“During the past year the operations of the
U.S. Stockpile have dominated both markets.
The setback in zinc consumption in the U.S.A.
due to the mid-summer steel strike and the
falling off in automobile production, coupled
with a sharp down-turn in U.K. car production,
caused deliveries to the Stockpile to reach very
large tonnages. We have, therelore, constantly
before us the problem that would emerge if there
should be a change in U.S. official policy. There
is little doubt that current production, particu-
larly of zinc, would be more than industry
could immediately absorb, even if a return to the
1955 rate of consumption were to take place.
We believe, however, that whilst the underlying
tendency of world inflation continues and deter-
mined efforts are being pursued to raise the living
standards of undeveloped countries, the position
should in due course again be in balance. There
may, however, be a period when this luck of
balance will adversely affect metal prices and
we must be prepared for the consequences . . .
“The situation is one which has faced the
mining industry on many occasions in the past
and, with the slate of efficiency achieved in our
operations and our strong cash resources, we
feel justified in facing the future with quiet
confidence.”
Conclusion
In conclusion, 1 wish to congratulate most
heartily the management, staff and employees
at Broken Hill on the results achieved during the
year. The increase in the output of the Mine
to 606,000 tons as compared with the target
figure of 540,000 tons is wholly attributable to
the continued improvement in operatin’
efficiencies, and this could not have come about
without sustained effort and effective co-opera-
tion on the part of all concerned.
L. B. ROBINSON.
Bth May, 1957.
Note: Persons wishing to have a complete
copy of this abridged Statement are invited to
write to G.P.O. Box 384 D, Melbourne.


(fhjixy
*
Qi
w
UAL
ATER
*
For the home
Eli industry
in Hard Water Areas
© Steam Raising Plants for Hospitals.
© Manufacturing Processes.
© Manual, Semi-automatic, Fully Automatic.
• Specialised equipment for Farm and Station
Purposes.
FILTRITE Water Filters
Clear, crystal water for
every purpose. The home,
Institute use, Industry,
Swimming Pools, Town
Supply. Specialised equip-
ment for Farm and Station
purposes.
DEIONIZATION
This makes it possible to
obtain a water which is
the equivalent of a triple
distilled water, free from
all dissolved solids, and at
a fraction of the cost of
distillation.
W. G. UTTING & CO. PTY. LTD,.
T. & G. Building,
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. 88998 - 85097
Contractors to State and Commonwealth Governments.
Manufacturers of all types of Water Treatment
Plants, both Industrial and Domestic.
respectively on ord. capital.
Allowing for the deferreds,
the ratio drops to 13.6 p.c., 12
p.c. and 11.5 p.c. over the past
three years.
The ord. shares being issued
will rank for dividend as from
January 1, 1957, which means
that holders will be entitled to
six months’ div. at the close of
accounts on June 30. The
board anticipates an ord. div.-
rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
The issue, underwritten by
lan Potter and Co., was quickly
oversubscribed.
Isas (N.S.W.), Ltd.
THE fullv-paid £1 shares in
■lsas (N.S.W.), Ltd., have
opened at slightly above par.
An issue of 250,000 ords. was
made earlier this year and fully
subscribed. The company took
over the franchise to distribute
in N.S.W. the International
Harvester Company’s industrial
power and construction equip-
ment, as well as materials-
handling equipment, logging
equipment, loading equipment
and road-building equipment
supplied by International
Harvester, Armstrong-Holland
and Fowler Engineering Pty.,
Ltd.
Isas (N.S.W.) was formed
on October 29, 1956. Nothing
was paid for goodwill or as
vendor’s consideration, but it
was agreed to pay E. A.
O’Keefe, one of the promoters
of the company and its present
managing-director, the sum of
£7500 under a service agree-
ment, and to grant him a par
option over 10,000 shares for a
period of five vears (the period
of his agreement).
The principal products to be
sold by the co. will be those of
International Harvester, which
set-up in Australia in 1912 and
began manufacturing here in
1936, since when it has
expanded very considerably.
The other major suppliers of
the Isas group have expanded
the locally-produced content of
their output. This will help
to ensure continuity of supplies
in times of import-restriction
like the present.
The £250,000 issue (which
was payable in full on applica-
tion, or 10s. on application and
the rest on September 30) was
intended to pay for premises,
plant, stock and preliminary
expenses and provide for work-
ing capital (£156,000).
Mr. O’Keefe has been asso-
ciated with International Har-
vester for the past 20 years ;
he has just relinquished his job
of sales-manager for Australia
of the industrial-construction
equipment division, prior to
which he was general-manager
in W.A.
In a leport included in the
prospectus he says that Isas
(N.S.W.) “will enjoy profitable
and successful operations,
particularly having regard to
the vast potential of N.S.W.”
He stresses the fact that Inter-
national Harvester has in the
past 10 years begun manufac-
ture in Australia of kerosene
and diesel wheel-tractors and
power-units, and has com-
menced manufacture of earth-
moving equipment for its
range of crawler-tractors.
He also points out that the
company representing Isas in
Queensland has paid 10 p.c.
for the past four years, in S.A.
10 p.c. for the past two years,
W.A. 10 p.c last year and 15
p.c. in the preceding three
years, and Tasmania 15 p.c.
for the oast four years.
Mr. O’Keefe speaks of a 10
p.c. div. from the N.S.W. co.
jn the future. No details of
the Isas franchise are given in
the prospectus.
It is prooably true to say that
turnover in power-machinery
at the moment is not as high as
it was a vear or two ago, and
the N.S.W. co. may not immedi-
ately have a turnover in rela-
tion to capital equal to that
in recent years of older-estab-
lished distributors in other
States. But this is an age of
mechanical farming, . road-
making and earthmoving, as
well as loading and materials-
handling, and there is no
doubt about the quality of the
products handled by Isas dis-
tributors. Over the years Isas
(N.S.W.) should have ample
opportunity to give a - good
account of itself.
On the board are W. V.
Armstrong, H. W. Hattersley,
J. M. Collins and E. A.
O'Keefe.
More Definitions
[From L. Owenl
A CCORDING to the Sunday
papers, Associated Freney's
technical advisers have defined
“live” oil as “a liquid crude
containing gas.” I don’t believe
that this definition will be
accepted by the petroleum
industry, but it is a pity that
it was not given when the term
was first used.
It is further reported that
the oil occurred in a “very
small vug.” “Vug,” by the
way, is a word derived from the
extinct Cornish language and
has been generally used in
mining, since the beginning of
the nineteenth century, to
describe a cavern, or a sizeable
caviiy, in ore-bearing rock. The
“vug” in the Sisters’ Plateau
core must have been a very
small cavity indeed ; I assume
that what was meant was
vesicle.
However, small oil cos. are
not the only ones to abuse
technical expressions. The
Minister for Supply, speaking
in Canberra on May 26, said
(I quote):
In Papua there will be very many
physical problems in building dams
and tunnels in geologically immature
country.
Now, a landscape may be
“youthful,’’ “mature” or “old,”
according to the degree of
erosion which it has undergone,
but the underlying geology
cannot be immature or aged.
I assume, here again, that what
the Minister wished to convey
was that some of the country
to which reference was made
was still tectonically unstable.
Which is not quite the same
thing!_ But the Minister may,
of course, have had in mind
some of the geology which is
contained in the departmental
reports.
Associated Freney has
expressed the opinion that the
“live oil in the vug” possessed
considerable significance as the
show occurred in Devonian
limestone,, which is a prolific
source of oil in other parts of
the world. It should be
remembered, however, that the
Devonian and Silurian between
them include less than 5 per
cent, of the total oil production
and proved reserves within
U.S.A., which is the only region
for which reasonably complete
data are available.
The entire Palaeozoic
accounts for less than 50 p.c. of
total U.S.A. oil; taking the
world as a whole, Palaeozoic
oil amounts to less than 20
p.c. of the world total, as far
as can be estimated at present.
At Sisters’ Plateau, it is
stated that the well is being
deepened .in the hope of
striking oil in the Ordovician.
In U.S.A. over 7 p.c. of the
total past production and
proved reserves are contained
in beds of that age.


I SSW&Sr f
“And when you Were in Sydney what did you think of our Harbor !”


83rd ANNUAL REPORT
ne w business m
1956
£8
Hi&'V't
LAST YEAR'S HIGHER SCALE
OF BONUSES, WHICH SHOWED
AN INCREASE OF
30%
OVER THE PREVIOUS THREE
YEARS, IS MAINTAINED.
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LTD.
AUSTRALIA'S MOST PROGRESSIVE LIFE OFFICE .
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Leontyne Price
The dedication of modern
American musicians produces
programmes as stimulating as
a new literary review ; every-
thing is new, or is treated in a
new manner ; and everything is
made to seem like a study or
essay upon the work under
in which every signifi-
cance, every facet is developed,
polished, shown at its best. Or
maybe it’s just that Miss Price’s
programmes are new to Aus-
tralians.
Thus in her Thursday pro-
gramme the songs of Marx,
Poulenc and Barber were new
to the present reviewer, and in
the Saturday those of Rosen-
thal, Nordoff and, alas, even
the three Baudelaire songs by
Debussy, in which the crushed
harmonies of the musician so
exquisitely match the words
like crushed flowers with which
the poet celebrated his dark
mistress - ; and if one must
confess everything, even so
pretty a thing as the “Schla-
gende Herzen” (“L ong i n g
Hearts”) by Richard Strauss,
and, believe it or not, the intro-
ductory Handel arias- you
should hear her sing from
Handel’s “Julius Qesar,” the
aria where Cleopatra “wonders
what her first meeting with
Qesar will be like!”
Devoted as were her render-
ings, the settings by Rosenthal
of Ronsard, and the Barber
“Hermit Songs" built on old
modes, had a very fragmentary
effect ; they had not the verve,
which modernity substitutes for
•vocal line, to be found in three
settings, by Poulenc of poems
by Eluard —to cut a long story
0
short, it was all exquisite
demonstration of what must
be pretty close to a perfect
instrument until we came to
Verdi in the first concert and
Massenet and Puccini in the
second.
Then, in her singing of “Ma
dall' arido stelo divulso” from
“Un Ballo in Maschera” she
demonstrated a Verdi aria as
one has never heard it done
before stripped, muscular,
every movement of the music
and the emotion beautifully
shaded-in; a performance
which not only increased one’s
admiration of the singer, but
of Verdi himself ; a stupendous
musician.
We are fortunate to hear so
great a singer so early in her
career ; when she bows her
small head to. tell Mr. David
Garvey that he can begin con-
ducting that one-man orchestra
which resembles a piano only in
appearance under his hands, it
is with the grace of a princess ;
in the rare moments when she
condescends to smile it warms
the hall ; when she sings
spirituals with the true accent
she is everyone's hometown-
girl ; and when she had to
admit, at the; end of the second
concert, that they'd forgotten
to bring the encores, even the
Sydney audience went, quietly.
❖ ♦> *
Borovamsky Ballet
As this page went to press
the Borovansky Ballet, with
guest dancers Margot Fonteyn
and Michael Somes,' and
Rowena Jackson and Bryan
Ashbridge, were opening their
second programme at Sydney
Empire.
The visitors have had more
publicity than any overseas
stars for a long time. Their
ordinary news-value has used
up columns and columns ; there
was the barney over availability
and price of seats —the whole
season is long since sold out,
of course —and, finally, there
were some heated exchanges
over the Fonteyn’s dancing in
“Swan Lake.”
All good stuff, of course,
though none of it making the
slightest difference to the fact
that the visitors have turned on
dancing as exquisite as one
might expect to see in a month
of Sundays.
❖ ♦> ❖
Beethoven’s Ninth
For the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra’s annual provident-
fund concert at Melbourne
Town Hall the work selected
was the most majestic, massive
and exacting piece of musical
architecture in existence
Beethoven’s Ninth. The musi-
dans, the soloists and the
choristers of the Royal Phil-
harmonic and conductor Kurt
Woess went at it with their ears
back and a magnificent per-
formance resulted.
When the human voice came
in—where it seems inevitable
that it must come in or the
whole edifice will topple over
—the effect was tremendous.
The gentlemen and ladies of
the Philharmonic have never
done better. The deep voice
of • black-browed Alan Eddy
came rich and easy and the
other soloists, if not always
inspired, were adequate to the
occasion—more than adequate
in the case of Halinka de Tarc-
zynska, just returned from
London, who filled a vacancy
caused by the illness of the
appointed soprano.
Kurt Woess led his
legionares to their objective
like a Julius Caesar conquering
a musical Gaul. There were
no histrionic gestures. What
he drew out of them in the
Egmont Overture was nobody's
business. In four songs of
Brahms for women’s voices the
Oriana Madrigal Choir came
delightfully up to expectations.
“Waiting for Gillian”
Although “A Way Through
the Woods” is far from being
Nigel Balchin’s best novel, this
adaptation of it, by Ronald
Millar, extracts to advantage
the theatricality of the plot and
characters.
Brisbane Repertory Theatre's
presentation of the piece sug-
gested that this group had
slackened a bit in its thorough-
ness of casting the male roles.
As the husband faced with
his wife's involvement in a
manslaughter charge and a
subsequent disc lo sure of
adultery, John Warner lacked
the necessary “English” touch ;
and, as the English ‘aristocratic
playboy, Dick McCann’s easy
American-style stage-presence
was as incongruous on this
occasion as his American tailor-
ing despite moments of
sincere understanding of his
part in the whole action.
On the other hand, the
women throughout gave
splendid performances: Blair
Hefferan, as the wife, over-
rode the improbabilities of the
plot; and Gerry Greet, as the
widow of. the man run down
by the adulterous couple, was
uncomfortably real in one of
those parts that Tynan deplored
in his recent praise of the
“Doll” (B. 15./5/’57) — ; the
“patronised” member of the
working class.
The final set, a slum cafe


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
/S,,
W
mm
~y
Q
- - -
COB
CORAUTE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
k
KNZOI
* It’s easier and there’s
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy* Coralite
Kerosine by the tin where
you see these pumps . . .
super
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd C 5153
“The Man Who Came to
Dinner”
If you think it is worth
exploring the character of a
literary parasite, of a man who
behaves abominably to
defenceless people, then
Canberra Repertory’s perform-
ance of Kaufmann and Hart’s
“The Man Who Came to
Dinner” is worth seeing.
Anne Godfrey-Smith, as pro-
ducer, seems to see it all as a
lomp, a kaleidoscope of wise-
cracks and funny situations —a
romp which actors, producer,
stage-hands and audience can
all enjoy. And she manages to
infect the company with the
spirit of a party of tiddly,
giggly people, who think it is
all huge fun.
The trouble is that the
character of a literary barrow-
man —the type made possible
by mass-circulation periodicals,
wireless and TV —is worth
denouncing, but not toying with
as Kaufmann and Hart do.
Still, the producer made the
most of the material from the
authors, as did most of the
players. Grant Mclntyre
played Whiteside with enor-
mous gusto, and even though
his tone for wisecrack, mush
and gush was too similar he
created a person on the stage.
Peter Steer turned in a per-
formance of quality, and
there was pleasing work by
Nita Park, Bernard Freedman,
Helen Wodger, Alison Alpen
and Patricia Hutchinson.
However, the literary barrow-
man, the peddler of other
people’s idea, the preyer, calls
for more than a romp —he
reeds the knockout blow.
M. C.
outside the prison gates, was
excellently done, but the
English country home, the
main scene of the action,
lacked this group’s usual appre-
ciation of over-all design and
discriminating choice of acces-
sories.
VAL VALLIS.
Arthursts
Eldershaw in Brisbane
When he handles watercolor
in the way most suited to the
medium, to capture a fleeting
impression in fluid wash, John
Eldershaw can paint as well as
anybody in Australia, and
better than most : he is a very
worthy inheritor of the tradi-
tion that has come down to us,
through Blamire Young, from
Cotman and Peter de Wint.
When, reinforcing the
medium with underlying draw-
ing in crayon, he makes large,
strong maps of places his
results are not so sure. You do
get the faithful map; you get
massive arrangements of trees,
mountains and buildings ; you
get the statement of a strongly
masculine personality; but
sometimes you miss the poetry.
For some odd reason —either
because artists can never judge
their own work or because
critics, as is possible, are always
w rong—it is nearly always these
big map-like drawings which
Eldershaw exhibits at mixed
shows during the year; and
consequently it is only when he
has a one-man show, like his
present one at the Moreton
Galleries, Brisbane, that you see
him at his best.
He strikes a new note in the
smooth, austere light of “Morn-
ing Calm” and “The Pool
Below,” both early-morning
studies. “Pool, Early Morning”
is a softer account of the
dawn ; “Twilight” a suave com-
bination of an old white pise
house, a poplar turning gold
and dusk advancing over the
huge dark hills; and “Pool
Before Frost” is an exception-
ally rich concentration of
water-lights and autumnal
willows. “Sheoak Waters” is
a colorful stray from the
tropics.
Among the larger water-
colors, “Green Tree and Mount
Glen Davis” is the most effec-
tive ; and, among . the oils,
“Yakandandah Creek” observes
the heat-haze in the hills with
both warmth and subtlety.
❖ ♦> ❖
Back from Abroad*
The great advantage of travel
for a disciple of Max Meldrum,
as Albert Rydge’s exhibition at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries
demonstrates, is that fresh
scenes and fresh colors not only
change the familiar subject-'
matter of the formula but tend
to modify the formula itself.
A good many of Rydge’s
paintings look like other
Meldrumite paintings; otheus
look like conscientious
exercises, setting down on
canvas what is there to be
painted simply because it is
there. But “Old Houses,
C'amolgi” looks like pink and
red houses glowing as only
houses on the Mediterranean
can glow; and “Street in
Fornalutx,” winding through
sunlight and shadow, is equally
warm and attractive.
This is one of the paintings in
which the European scenes
have given the artist not only
new colors to enjoy but also a
scene of some drama a


THIS INVESTMENT PAYS
PER ANNUM
SAFETY
Original advances are secured to
60 per cent, of our valuation.
This is increased each fortnight
by repayments by the borrower
who receives the advance for a
maximum of 3 years.
AVAILABILITY
You may withdraw your invest-
ment at any time on the basis of
£l,OOO immediately; any amount
invested in excess of £l.OOO may
be withdrawn at a minimum of
£5OO each week thereafter.
NO BROKERAGE
or “extra expenses” to reduce your
capital or interest.
NO STOCK
EXCHANGE
LfSTING
No market fluctuations your
money grows steadily and always
retains its value.
INTEREST PAID
TWICE YEARLY
Interest Is paid on the 31st Decem-
ber and 30th June each year, at
the rate of 15 p.c. per annum.
4
ASSETS
At the present time total assets
exceed £400,000. Any amount ex-
ceeding £25 wili be accepted.
Applications and Enquiries
Robert G. Kirby & Co., Public Accountants,
2 Crofts Avenue, Hurstville.
Telephone LU2OIB.
Please send me. without obligation, full details of your 15 per
cent. Investment.
NAME y.
ADDRESS •••
composition with depth and
distance to it ; romantic sub-
ject. He has found that again
in “The Road to Puig Mayor,”
climbing to the mountains, and
“The Church at Camolgi,”
which is a most sumptuous
piece of castle-like architecture
against its mountainous
background.
❖ ❖
Whirlwind
John Perceval has hit Sydney
like a whirlwind from Mel-
bourne with a turgid and
intricate mass of bursting waves
and sunken ships, crowded
harbors, tangled jungles,
primeval forests where lost
children disintegrate and where
even so innocent a word as
“You-Yang” sounds like some
sinister mythological monster.
And thunderstorms, and
dwarfed and hydrocephalic
children sweeping each other
to glory with straw-brooms,
and spinning red suns and
swarming blobs of city lights,
and waterfalls gushing like
tidal-waves, and cottages
collapsing into ruin and
funereal cockatoos heavier than
bombers, and . . . whatnot?
All this swirling in greasy
paint, mostly blue, lit with red
and orange, on the uncom-
promising material of masonite;
with echoes of Arthur Boyd,
Sidney Nolan, distant Van
Gogh and . . . whonot?
The closer you are to the
paintings the worse they look ;
the further off you go the better
they are ; and when they are
right out of sight two clear
impressions remain: turgidity ;
and force.
He is at David Jones’ ; and
the building, surprisingly
enough, is still standing.
❖ ♦>
Melbourne Exhibitions
Expressionism continues to
spread in Melbourne with the
speed and virulence of Malayan
influenza. The semi-abstrac-
tions of Kenneth Hood at the
Peter Bray Gallery in Bourke-
street are severely infected by
the virus, and impressionism is
fighting a losing battle with
expressionism in the work of
architect-artist Peter Burn at
the Contemporary Gallery in
Flinders-street. At the Vic-
torian Artists’ all four artists
hanging pictures exhibit rashes
with the single exception of
Miss Judith whose
“Gippsland Paysage” shows
some of the variety of nature
and whose portrait “Pam,”
displaying a girl in a red hat
and a red dress with white
spots, would be quite refresh-
ing if the artist had toned down
her exuberant love of pigment
for its own sake.
All the competitors in the
Italian Scholarship hanging at
the National Gallery show
signs of having been exposed to
the infection, some to a high
degree and some less so. A
curious feature of this exhibi-
tion is that the judges appear
to have based their judgment
on the assumption that the
greater the evidence of ,the
infection the better the patient;
they awarded the scholarship
to Lawrence Daws for a semi-
abstraction which exhibits the
complaint in probably its most
acute form. Perhaps this is just
as well. As it is Jhe purpose
of the scholarship to enable
the winner to study the greatest
work of the greatest masters at
first hand the trip might have
the same effect as an anti-
venine injection.
The only exhibitions which
show absolutely no contact
with the epidemic are Alan D.
Mickle’s at the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau and John S.
Loxton’s at the Athenaeum.
Mr. Loxton is still applying to
the Australian landscape the
formula with which he started
long before the modern
“ ’isms” came into fashion, and
the results, if not profound, are
often pleasing. Mr. Mickle, the
well-known critic and essayist,
has turned to painting and his
pictures have an even more
nostalgic air about them than
Mr. Loxton’s.
Incidentally, Mr. Loxton has
bought a caravan to take him
to his favorite subject-matter.
He should have bought a boat.
Out of 44 pictures, excluding
still-life, only 13 are land-
scapes. The rest are seascapes.
Films
“Nightfall”
For action fans, this, at
Sydney Capitol, is good meat,
if only for its recognition of the
essential of an action show —
plenty of action.
They meet, each with good
intentions, in a Chicago bar:
he just a decent young com-
mercial artist; she a smart and
attractive model. She drinks
martinis; he’s a vodka-on-the-
rocks man. A date for the
following night . . . then, out
of the night like something that
Nature forgot, two thug-uglies.
Build on that with a mystery
involving a bank-robbery, a
murder and missing loot;
thrown-in flashbacks to bring
the little lady up-to-date, an
unsuspected shadow (an insur-
ance-man) and a fashion-
parade ; involve this nice young
guy in the lot —and you have it.
While the camera swings
from Chicago penthouses to
Wyoming snowfields, the scales
swing in favor of the young
hero, and things keep on
happening. Husky - voiced,
sandy-haired, Aldo Ray moves
capably with the pace of things
in the main role, and Anne
Bancroft, pretty and able to
act, supports him well as the
model-met-in-the-bar.
* +♦♦
“The Darkest Hour”
This, at Sydney Plaza, is-the
familiar tale of the embittered,
unjustly - convicted prisoner
who, on his release, tracks
down the real criminal and
exacts vengeance on one who
had framed him.
Ed. G. Robinson is the
crime-tsar, who either buys-off
or bumps-off all who stand in
his path to ruthless political
power, and it is only his incisive
characterisation which lends
any. real interest to the film.
Alan Ladd, as the ex-cop out
after r-r-revenge, overdoes the
taciturnity which has become
his histrionic stock-in-trade.
Joanne Dru is more impressive,
simply looking appealing than
trying to emote at high
temperature.
-£♦ +♦«.
“The Conqueror”
History is put through the
mincer in this expensive,
gaudily colored “epic” about
the rivalry of the Tartars and
the Mongols in the days of
Genghis Khan. The story is
about a Mongol chief who
captures the daughter of his
Tartar enemy her violent
hatred of him, it .transpires
after about 90 minutes, is but
love dissembled. The dialogue
includes practically every
archaism except “By my hali-
dom!” John Wayne, as the
Mongol hero, and Susan
Hayward, as the bewchus
princess, ham their way
through it unmercifully.


fail>
B
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THH HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
VICE-CHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE.
managing director.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
MANAGER.
Efficient and Helpful Service
for your dependents . . .
ONE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a
man can do for his family is to ensure freedom from
all the cares and worries that so frequently go hand in
hand with Estate administration.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) as
your Executor and Trustee —alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend, you will ensure that, when the time
comes, your Estate will be in the safe, experienced hands
of a Company with a proud record of more than 70 years’
faithful service to the Community; you will ensure, for
your dependents, a service that is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of the Company’s service,
and what it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an
appointment. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the
Company’s "helpful and in-
formative booklet be sent to
you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HOrRB
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
.MENTIONED AT THE LEFT:
WARREN D. McDonald
VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. G. McFARLANE. C M G.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1952.. 380,307 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 155,000 225,307 2.261.451
Unexplained addition net, £14,771 2,276,252
To special tax reserve, £155,000 2,121,252
1953.. 473,114 6 p.e. 7 p.e. 155,000 318,114 2,439,366
To special tax reserve, £112,516.. 2,326,850
Unexplained addition, £61,991 .. 2,388,841
1954.. 669,064 6 p.e. 8 p.c. 175,000 494,064 2,882,905
Unexplained addition, £64,357 .. 2,947.262
To special tax reserve; £53,100 .. 2,894,162
1955.. 452,425 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 175,000 277,425 3,171,587
To special tax reserve, £122,500.'. 3,049,087
Loss sale assets, £958 .. .. 3,048,129
From provisions, £34,166 . . . . 3,082,295
Xet unexplained addition, £28,209.-3,110,504
1930.. 416,354 6 p.c. 8 p.e. 175,000 241,354 3,352,718
* After deducting outside interests.
Main reason for the slip in Howard
Smith’s earnings last year lay in the less
profitable showing by the shipowning
and coalmining interests of the group.
Actual net profit of the wholly-owned
subsidiary Australian Steamships Pty. is
kept secret, but competition from inter-
state road transport \vas keener and
earning-capacity was further reduced
by the sale of two ships and the
withdrawal of a third for survey and
refit. Two new ships were added to the
fleet (the 3450-ton general-purposes m.v.
Burwah and the Century, a bulk-carrier
of 5500 tons), but because of delays in
construction they weren't put into service
until June and December respectively.
As well as the high cost of the new ton-
nage, the co. had to meet heavier port
costs, mainly as a result of the introduc-
tion of the Ashburner award, which gave
waterside workers wage-increases, paid
sick-leave and holidays in return for the
employers’ right to reduce the size of
stevedore-gangs and increase sling-loads.
These changes were strenuously resisted
at first, but the waterfront lately has been
operating more efficiently and in a greater
degree of peace than for a long time.
Because there is a direct outside finan-
cial interest in the coal offshoots their
accounts are made public. Caledonian
Collieries (working in the Hunter Valley)
returned a £59,228-smaller net profit
(£223,841) for the year. Output was
reduced by strikes in the pits and on the
wharves in Newcastle harbor, where the
obsolete coal-loading facilities continue to
add to problems. On the State’s western
field, where the fall in demand for coal
has been greatest, the Invincible Colliery
netted only £7172, a drop of £17,840.
Overall, profit from all trading activi-
ties and investments held by the parent
co. (including substantial share-interests
in 8.H.P., Southern Portland Cement
and A. Goninan and Co.) con-
tracted by £105,471 to £293,854.
That was after eliminating outside share-
holders’ interests and setting aside
£290,499 (up £123,238) depreciation,
£83,342 (down £83,919) taxation, and a
further £122,500 (up £69,400) against
future income tax. Including the
£122,500, actual net earnings for the term
were down £36,071. Allowing for the
£15,000 pref. charge the £416,354 was
20 p.c. on the £2 million ord. capital as
against 20.2 p.c. the previous year.
To finance the purchase of the new
vessels and additional plant for the sugar
co. the co. drew on its own cash for
£398,354, borrowed £700,911 from the
bank and another £227,197 to creditors
and lightened book-debts by £394,864: —•
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £250.000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Reserves .. .. 2,882,905 3,171,587 3,352,718
Outside interests 579,325 607,534 616,057
Overdraft .. .. 700,911
Creditors, etc. .. 1,156,552 1,277,742 1,504,939
Workers’ compensation 53,731 61,727 67,027
Tax provision .. 761,638 654,126 653,706
Final divs. .. 103,750 103,750 103,750
£7,786,901 £8,126,406 £9,249,108
Freeholds, etc. . . 629,592 626,341 625,904
Steamers, collieries,
plan:, etc. .. 2,840,773 3,179,188 5,089,120
Shares .. .. 1,144,047 1,153,047 1,150,461
Stocks .. .. 740,981 812,946 821,897
Debtors .. .. 1,358,245 1,639,364 1,244,500
Cash, bonds .. 1,072,963 715,580 317,226
£ 7,786,901 £ 8,126,466 £9,249,108
* Including proportion of reserves.
This year the co. will install extra plant
in its sugar-mill and take delivery of
the Macedon, another 3450-ton general-
purposes motor-vessel. This ship will give
the co. an efficient and well-balanced
fleet:
On ’Change the price of the f.-p. £1
ords. eased from 355. to 30s. 6d. follow-
ing the profit disclosure. At the current
level of 325. the scrip returns an even
5 p.c. on the basis of an 8 p.c. div. The
6 p.c. prefs. haven’t been traded this year.
Net asset cover is £22 Bs. 3d. the prefs.
and 535. sd. ords.
Mort's Dock & Engineering Co., Ltd.
nrHE big loss reported by Mort’s Dock
and Engineering Co., Ltd., last year
came as a shock to both shareholders in
the co. and the investing public generally.
Shareholders had been given no reason
to believe that the co.’s shipbuilding
activities were unprofitable—although
this appears to have been the case for
some time —but probably the most
alarming aspect of the situation was the
indication that, once again, accounting
procedures adopted by a public co. had
proved unreliable and, in this particular
case, had permitted profits to be over-
stated for a number of years and divi-
dends to be paid from (and tax paid on)
partly fictitious profits.
Mort’s shipbuilding, ship-repairing and
general engineering business was founded
in Sydney about 82 years ago, and last
term’s loss was the first since the present
co. took over from an earlier co. of the
same name in 1899. The div.-rate over
the 10 years to 1955 averaged 7.2 p.c.,
but the bulk of the earnings was distri-
buted, the earning-rate of share-capital
averaging only 8.6 p.c. in the second half
of that decade. No div. was paid last
term.
In 1945 the General Electric Co. of
England was offered a 10 p.c, share-
interest in Mort’s, following an agreement
which provided that the local co. should
manufacture most of the mechanical
equipment previously sold by the General
Electric Co. in Australia. This led to an
extension of the general engineering side
of the business, and additional capital
was sought in 1948 to finance the erection
of new buildings and plant. Of the


650,000 £1 ords. offered to shareholders
(one-for-one) at a premium of 4s. 6d.,
only 325,050 were applied for and
allotted. These were fully paid in 1951,
giving the co. a paid capital of £975,050,
all in £1 ords.
Labor shortages and industrial disputes
have hampered the co.’s progress in the
post-war years, and shipbuildingr-con-
tracts, by stipulating that award rates of
pay be adhered to, prevented the labor-
force from being maintained. Power-
blackouts and the irregular supply of
materials also affected construction work,
and the last two vessels of any size built
by the co. took approximately twice as
long to complete as had originally been
planned. As a result the co. had to cover
not only the consequent increase in over-
heads, but also penalties for late
delivery totalling £28,800.
During the construction of these
vessels, ordered in 1948 by the Aus-
tralian Shipbuilding Board, the accounts
included “a proportion of the estimated
profit on incomplete contracts,” and
although one vessel was completed, at a
loss of £35,000, in 1953, this loss was not
revealed until three years later. The
second ship was completed last term at
a loss of £242,000. The loss brought into
the accounts last year, therefore, doesn’t
relate to any one term but was, in fact,
accumulated over something like seven
years or more:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividend serves. serves.
1952.. 83,604 7 p.c. = 68,254 15,350 491,627
1953.. 86,723 7 „ 68,254 18,469 510,096
1954.. 94,054 8 „ „ 78,004 16,050 ■ 526,146
1955.. 76,576 7 „ ~ 66,253 5,323 534,469
Loss.
1950. .175,644
The co.’s heavy-engineering division has
apparently been returning reasonable
profits, and last term earnings from this
source, together with those from ship-
repairing, etc., limited the net loss for the
year (to June 30 last) to £175,644, after
providing an unchanged £25,000 for
depreciation. Reserves, including a
£107,100 debit in the p. and 1. account,
dropped from £534,469 to £358,825.
Work-in-progress (including a propor-
tion of the profit estimated thereon) and
stores fell sharply (by £402,406) following
the completion of contracts and the
writing-off of profits anticipated but not
realised:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £975,050 £975,050 £975,050
Reserves .. .. 526,146 534,469 358,825
Long-term loans. . 826,750 818,300 789,850
Loan, subsidiary. . 11,049 7,057 7,135
Creditors, tax-
provision, etc... 438,774 436,858 374,520
Final div. .. 78,004 68,253
£2,855,773 £2,839,987 £2,505,380
Fixed assets .. 1,585,352 1,622,859 1,671.554
Shares, subsidiary 3,798 3,798 3,798
Stock, w.i.p. . . 867,041 922,649 520,243
Debars, cash, etc. 399,582 290,681 309,785
£2,855,773 £2,839,987 £2,505,380
Despite the loss there was an improve-
ment in liquidity. Debtors, deposits, etc.,
rose by £19,104 and external liabilities
were reduced by £159,041, current assets
exceeding current liabilities by £455,508
(down £252,711). Fixed assets (up
£48,695) are shown at cost less
depreciation.
Long-term prospects of the Australian
•hipbuilding industry depend on its ability
to reduce construction costs and the level
of assistance received from the Govern-
ment. In the immediate future, however,
there seems little reason why Mort’s, with
unprofitable contracts out of the way,
shouldn’t improve its position reasonably
promptly. Unfortunately the board has
given no indication of trading results in
the current term, as yet, nor has it made
any public comment on the accounting
procedures adopted by the co., and the
market is, naturally, uncertain about the
scrip, pricing the f.-p. £1 shares at 9s. 6d.
Net tangible cover, at June 30 last, was
275. 4d.
R. H. Gordon & Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
■pORMED in 1903 and reconstructed
-*■ four years later, R. H. Gordon and
Co., Ltd., was one of the first Australian
companies to go into the cash-order
business. The venture was highly suc-
cessful, but the co., trading from its
Sydney freehold and one suburban
branch, is now primarily interested in
retailing furniture, furnishings, crockery
and other household goods, although it
continues to finance hire-purchase trans-
actions for its customers.
Since 1909 R. H. Gordon and Co. has
returned £223,333 of capital to share-
holders and issued bonus-scrip to a face-
value of £307,450, while the div.-rate over
the past 10 years has averaged 16.3 p.c.
The demand for furniture and furnish-
ings, however, has slackened over the last
twelve months or more, and the share-
market (which also treats h.-p. scrip
rather cautiously) at present prices the
co.’s f.-p. 15s. ords. at 19s. 3d., com-
pared with 38s. in 1955 and 255. a year
ago. At 19s. 3d. the return from last
term’s Ilf p.c. div. would have been
9.1 p.c. Net tangible asset backing is
30s. lid. Two years ago paid capital
was increased to £241,500 (including
£5250 in employee-stock), by the issue, at
par, of 63,000 15s. shares on a one-for-
four basis.
The board described trading conditions
last term as “difficult,” but, despite this,
there was an improvement in turnover
(undisclosed), and the net profit for the
year, to December 31 last, was £2505
stronger at £34,335 after providing
£21,000 for taxation and £657 (up £327)
for depreciation:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
.£ £ £ £
1947.. 33,430 18J p.c. = 26,675 1 g 209 502
To staff fund, £IOOO ..f 5 ' 765
1948.. 37,300 20 p.c. = 29,100 )
To staff fund, £ISOO ..( 6 - 700 216 ’ 202
1949. . 34,6 i 2 20 p.c. = 29,100 ) . 990 971
To staff fund, £ISOO ..( 4
1950.. 43,226 20 p.c. = 29,100 ) •.« i9/v 99.9 400
To staff fund, £2OOO . . (
Asset-revaluation reserve, £47,250.. 279,650
Bonus-share issue, £47,250 .. 232,400
1951.. 36,918 16§p.c.= 32,313 1
To staff fund, £2OOO .. ( 2605 235,005
1952.. 25,444 13J p.c. = 25,900 ) 999 n a a
To staff fund, £ISOO ..( ~
1953.. 38,095 15 p.c. = 29,138 { 0957 240 006
To staff fund, £2OOO . . J b ’ as7 240,00 b
From tax-provision, £IO,OOO .. 250,006
From premises reserve, £2806 .. 247,200
1954.. 43,608 15 p.c. = 29,lo8)-.-.QYn
To staff fund, £2,500 .. 250,170
From premises reserve, £5485 .. 253,685
1955. 31,830 13Lp.c = 27,475 ) 2 35g 256 04Q
To staff fund, £2,000 .. J
From maintenance reserve, £3240 252,800
1956.. 34,335 11§ p.c. = 28,175 \ . -»gQ 955 9/5Q
To staff fund, £2OOO .. f 4,lbU
The share-capital raised in the previous
term participated fully in dividends, and
although the div.-rate was dropped from
13| p.c. to Ilf p.c., an extra £6OO went
to shareholders. The profit represented
a return of 14.2 p.c. on share-capital,
compared with 15.4, 22.4, 19.6 and 13.1
p.c. in the four preceding years.
The financial structure is sound, and
at the end of last term current assets and
investments exceeded liabilities by
£337,600, shareholders’ funds accounting
for 73.1 p.c. of the balance-sheet totals:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ...£194,250 £241,500 £241,500
Reserves . . .. 259,170 256,040 256,960
Sundry creditors* 93,585 79,195 92,649
Overdraft *• 84,012 48,922 55,050
Staff fund .. 18,813 18,811 19,250
Final div. • • 16,188 14,525 16,100
£666,018 £658,993 £681,509
Property and plant,
etc .. .. 152,688 160,540 160,860
Stock .. .. 100,275 121,940 126,587
Hire agreements
and book debts 410,521 373,979 391,488
Shares, debentures,
etc. .. .. 2,424 2,424 2,424
Cash, etc. •. 110 110 150
£666,018 £658,993 £681,509
* Including tax provision.
To help finance an extra £17,509 in h.-p.
and trade-debtors the co. borrowed a
further £6128 from the bank and finished
the year with creditors, tax-provision,
etc., up £13,454 at £92,649. The basis
on which freeholds are valued is not
indicated in the accounts (where they are
shown simply “at book-value” £156,970),
but the George-street property was bought
for approximately £IOO,OOO over 30 years
ago, and, with the Newtown (Sydney)
premises, revalued in 1950, portion
(£47,250) of the surplus on revaluation
being brought into the accounts.
Union Trustee Co. (of Aust., Ltd.)
THE rate of commission charged by
trustee cos. is, in many cases, limited
by statute, net earnings depending
largely on the volume of trust business
and the level of costs or efficiency, with
the return from the co.’s own invested
funds making a small, but in recent years
particularly handy, contribution.
Inflation and rising costs have made
trust business less profitable in the post-*
war years as well as increasing the
difficulty of preserving capital and pro-
viding a reasonable income for life-
tenants. Some relief, from the share-
holders’ point of view, was obtained in
1953, when trustee cos. were allowed a
small increase in their commission
charges, and last term the net earnings of
the 72-year-old Union Trustee Co. of
Australia, Ltd., were the highest in 12
years. Shareholders in a trustee co.
normally enjoy a high degree of security,
but the cos. render a wide range of
essential and complex services at a
moderate charge, and the return on share-
holders’ funds these days is usually in
line with the risk involved, last term’s
showing by the Union equalling only 6.2
p.c. of shareholders’ funds, as they stood
at the beginning of the term.
The Union, one of Australia’s largest
corporate trustees, operates in Victoria,
New South Wales and Queensland, where
it controls or administers all types of
estates, maintaining a special interest in
pastoral undertakings. The business con-
tinued to expand during the year com-
pleted on February 28 last, commissions


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED,
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208.
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
Missing; Friend
WOULD ERIC JAMES ROBERTS,
formerly ol Campbell town and Wentworth
Falls, but now of parts unknown, please
communicate with JONES & KENNEDY,
Solicitors, 213 Nicholson Street, Foots-
eray, Victoria ?
Hew
&
m
How
about nuj
Dad about a Child's
a
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. ««■* .«• ««■ •«
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
ASSURA
Remind
LIFB
nce?
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDINER PTY. LTD. (E«t. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring: Street, SYDNEY - BtJ 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
bringing in an extra £16,020
and gross rents and interest
increasing by £6657:
Commissions, - Exes. p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes. Earnings.
1053.. £281,965 £274,497 97.3
1954.. 291,1-76 281,133 96.5
1955.. 308,328 294,102 95.4
1956.. 320,532 307,000 95.8
1957.. 343,209 328,070 92.6
Expenses (up £21,010) included
increased rates and land-tax
and took all the profit out of
the increase in commissions, the
larger investment income being,
mainly responsible ' for the
improved ratio between exes,
and income. The provision
for taxation was £260 higher
at £14,141, but the amount
v-ritten-off fixed assets was
down £320 at £4730.
After a slip in the preceding
term net profit for the year
was £1667 stronger at £15,139:
To Re- Re-
Feb.,Profit. ■, — selves, serves.
£ £ £ £
’52.. 7.484 6 p.c. = 8,250 92,424
’53.. 7,468 6 „ „ 8,250 91,642
’54..10,043 7 „ „ 9,625 418 92,060
’55..14,226 8 „ „ 11,000 3,226 95,286
’56..13.472 8 „ „ 31,000 2,472 97,753
’57..15,139 8 „ ~ 11,000 4,139 101,897
Over the last ten years divs.
have averaged 7 p.c. and the 8
p.c. rate, reintroduced in the
’55 term, was maintained with-
out difficulty, the net earnings
representing a return of 11 p.c.
on paid capital, compared with
9.8, 10.3, 7.3, and 5.4 p.c. back
to 1953.
The co.’s £137,500 paid
capital is in 100,000 50s. shares
SURVEYOR
GOVERNMENT OF
HONG KONG
The Government of Hong Kong
have a vacancy for a Land Surveyor.
Candidates must be Licensed
Surveyors under 45 years of age.
Duties are to carry out- under the
direction of an Assistant Director
or the Superintendent of Crown
Lands and Surveys trigonometrical,
topographical and cadastral surveys;
township surveys and layout;
precise and other levelling; prepara-
tion and production of maps; road
location and reconnaissance surveys
for public works; training and
supervision of Chinese Surveyors in
field and Office. Application forms
may be obtained from Professor
Cowen, Liaison Officer for Over-
sea Civil Service Appointments,
University of Melbourne, Carlton,
Victoria.
paid to 275. 6d. —20s. of the
uncalled liability on each share
being regarded as a reserve, to
be called only if needed on
liquidation. On February 28
last shareholders’ funds
(£239,397) and provisions for
tax and dividends were repre-
sented by freeholds, £190,575
(at cost less amounts written-
off), cash and guarantee-
deposits, £81,220, and debtors,
etc., £1770.
The scrip, paid to 275. 6d.,
last sold at 295. to return 7.6
p.c. from an 8 p.c. div. Net
tangible cover is a little over
475. lOd.
Ravensthorpe Copper
TN the six weeks to May 14
last, Ravensthorpe Copper’s
newly-installed plant treated
6500 tons of low-grade ore
from the Elverdton (W.A.)
dump to produce 310 tons of
copper concentrates. The plant
is now operating efficiently,
and the board is confident that
the extraction-rate will exceed
90 p.c.
Work on the mine is con-
tinuing, and in the next few
months a better grade of dump
material will be milled, together
with an increasing quantity of
underground development ore.
The co. announced earlier in
the year that it was aiming at
an eventual throughput of
10,000 tons of ore per four-
weekly period, and after work-
ing on dump material for some
time it expected to be handling
ore, won from the mine, with
an estimated recoverable grade
of at least 3 p.c. copper.
The co.’s 10s. shares, paid to
55., last sold at 4s. 4d.
Westralian Oil, Ltd.
WESTRALIAN OIL, LTD.,
’’is to join Western
Titanium, N.L., and Cable
(1956), Ltd., in the Bunbury-
Capel district of W.A., setting-
up the third treatment-plant in
that area designed for the pro-
duction of ilmenite.
The co. is considering plans
for a plant capable of produc-
ing 100,000 tons of ilmenite,
and other concentrates,
annually. Areas n®rth and
south of Capel are held by
Westralian Oil, which claims
to have proved a mineral con-
tent equal to more than
2,000,000 tons of concentrates.
The proved minerals contain
between 64 p.c. and 77 p.c.
ilmenite varying from approxi-
mately 54 p.c. to 60 p.c.
titanium dioxide.
Sponsored by Esperance Oil
Syndicate, Ltd., Westralian Oil
was formed in July, ’54, offer-
ing 6,691,000 ss. shares to the
public payable 25., including a
pre-paid call, on application.
Permits to explore areas south
of Broome were acquired from
Esperance Oil for £225,000,
which the vendors agreed to
reinvest in the co. Subsequently
the uncalled liability on the
contribs. was eliminated by
reducing the par-value of the
scrip to 2s. Paid capital is now
£896,320.
Oil-prospecting permits held
by the co. cover areas in the
Fitzroy Basin, Canning Basin,
Bonaparte Gulf district (on the
W.A.-N.T. border) and in
Gippsland (Vic.), the co.
exercising options held over
the latter area last August at a
cost of £10,300.
The directors have, up to
now, adopted what they term
“the comparatively slow
approach of scientific explora-
tion,” which, even if it did little
else, enabled the co. to com-
plete its second term (on June
30 last) with liquid assets and
investments exceeding liabilities
by £516,645. Fixed assets were
in the accounts on the same
date at £42,920 and intangibles
(including £225,326 for permits)
at £310,237.
Despite the solid cash
position, 'the scrip hit a “low”
of 3d. in 1956, the sharemarket
showing little confidence in the
smaller oil-prospecting cos.
(with one or two curious excep-
tions). Since the co. has shown
an interest in the West Aus-
tralian beach-sands, however,
buyers have raised their bids
for the f.-p. 2s. shares and
recent sales brought Is. 7d.


THE CONSOLIDATED ZINC CORPORATION LIMITED
SATISFACTORY OPERATING RESULTS DESPITE RISING FREIGHTS,
ROYALTY AND TAXATION
The Eighth Annual Meeting of The Consolidated Zinc
Corporation Limited will be held at 37 Dover Street,
London, on 26th June.
The following are extracts from the statement by the
Chairman, Mr. L. B. Robinson, which has been circulated
with the reports and accounts for the year ended 3 Ist
December, 1956.
I wish first to pay tribute to our
late Chairman and devoted col-
league, John'Romaine Govett, who
passed away in November. Mr.
Govett had been Chairman of The
Consolidated Zinc Corporation
Limited since it came into exis-
tence, and, indeed, its formation
W'as in great measure due to his
constant endeavour to w'iden the
range of our activities.
My colleagues and I are deeply
conscious of the debt we owe to
bis wise and capable leadership.
To his courage and vision we are
indebted for the spirit of enter-.
prise and endeavour which to-day
pervades the organisation and
which will inspire us all in the de-
velopments that lie ahead.
The trading balance for 1956 of
£6,250,323 was low'er than the
previous year by £187,532, the de-
crease being wholly due to the
effect on the group’s activities in
the United Kingdom of the de-
terioration of trading conditions in
this country.
The Imperial Smelting Corpora-
tion suffered a reduction in the
demand for alloys and pigments,
and profit margins were reduced
in the case of many of their pro-
ducts. Costs were higher, due in
particular to increases in the price
of coal and electricity and higher
wages. As a result, the profits
from trading for the year in the
United Kingdom w r ere consider-
ably lower than in 1955.
The profits from our subsidiaries
operating in Australia showed
little change from the previous
year. An increased ore production
by the Zinc Corporation nearly
offset the effect of a lower average
lead grale of ore, and production
of recoverable lead was only
slightly lower than in 1955. The
realisations of lead were slightly
in excess of production, but only
approximately 70% of the zinc con-
centrate output was realised during
the year. The average prices for
lead and zinc concentrates realised
were higher than in 1955, but the
additional revenue was largely
offset by considerably higher ocean
freight rates; such increase in mine
profits as remained was more than
absorbed by additional royalty and
taxation.
The consolidated profit of the
group before mining royalty and
taxation at £6,123,432 was only
slightly lower than the figure for
1955. £6,186,534.
Mining royalty payable to the
New South Wales Government on
the profits of the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s mine at Broken Hill in-
creased to £1,021,533 compared with
£914,653 for 1955. The top royalty
rate for 1956 was 50%, compared
with 48% in 1955.
The charge for taxation payable
In Australia and the United King-
dom also shows an increase, and
amounts to £1,638,389, compared
with £1,517.745 for 1955. Until the
Finance Bill 1957 becomes law it is
not possible to attempt any final
judgment of its effect on the
group. However, on the basis of
the Bill as published, it does not
appear likely ' that any material
benefit will accrue to the Company,
The consolidated net profit for
the year amounts to £2.044,383,
which is £300,545 lower than the
net profit for 1955.
Transfers of £BOO.OOO have been
made to general reserves, compared
with £1.000.000 for 1955. and this
year the whole of the amount has
been reserved in the accounts of
subsidiary companies.
An interim dividend of 1/6 per
share has been paid on the ordi-
nary shares, this being the same
as was paid last year.
It is proposed that the final divi-
dend should also be at the same
rate as last year, namely, 3/- per
share, thus maintaining the same
total for the year of 4/6 per share.
The balance carried forward on
consolidated appropriation account
at the 31st December, 1956, amounts
to £999,574, an increase of £32,569.
The consolidated balance sheet
show's over £10.000.000 in short-term
securities and loans. Trade in :
vestments totalled a little over
£6,000.000, w hile fixed assets are
shown at £13,893,223 after provid-
ing for depreciation of £8,591,718.
Capital expenditure during the
year on buildings, plant and equip-
ment amounted to £1,113,646, and
outstanding capital commitments
at the end of the year amounted
to £919,000.
Lead and Zinc Mining
The Zinc Corporation Mine at
Broken Hill and that of New
Broken Hill Consolidated show'ed
a further expansion in ore produc-
tion w'ith a continued increase in
mining efficiency. The Zinc Cor-
poration mined a total of 716.641
tons for a production of 80,625
tons of recoverable lead. 2,000,317
ounces of silver and 133.661 tons
of zinc concentrates, compared
with 83,479 tons of lead, 1,832,893
ounces of silver and 116,645 tons
of zinc concentrates in the previous
year. New Broken Hill Consoli-
dated, in which our interest re-
mained at approximately 32%,
mined 606,325 tons in 1956 for a
production of 47,950 tons of re-
coverable lead. 1.206,308 ounces of
silver and 137,990 tons of zinc
concentrates. The production of
this mine in 1955 was 42,767 tons
of recoverable lead. 848.350 ounces
of silver and 133,695 tons of zinc
concentrates.
Zinc Smelting
The production of metal from
the zinc plants of Imperial Smelt-
ing Corporation in the United
Kingdom w r as maintained at
virtually the same level as in 1955.
The now' Imperial Smelting pro-
cess for smelting zinc in associa-
tion wdth other metals has con-
tinued to be encouraging, and w r e
believe this development will be a
landmark in the history' of metal-
lurgy' of which our metallurgists
and engineers can be justly proud.
As recently announced, we are
now' planning the erection of a
smelter by Sulphide Corporation
Pty. Limited at their Cockle Creek
plant near Newcastle, New South
Wales, with a capacity of 47,000
tons of zinc per annum. The ful-
filment of this project now becomes
possible as a result of the develop-
ment of the Imperial Smelting
process w-hich will be used in the
new smelter. The acid made avail-
able by this extension will be
produced from sulphur gases from
sintering operations. This will
assist In reducing Australia’s de-
pendence on overseas sulphur sup-
plies, and wdll help to meet the
Commonwealth Government’s desire
for increased use to be made of
indigenous materials, as well as
meeting the forecast of continued
expansion in fertilizer demand in
N.S.W. This development is still
subject to the negotiation of long
term arrangements for the trans-
port of concentrates by rail
from Broken Hill over the New
South Wales Railways, and for the
provision of other essential ser-
vices including electric power and
water. The Government of New
South Wales and the other Authori-
ties concerned have shown a sym-
pathetic interest in our plans, and
we believe that w r e shall be able
to arrive at satisfactory arrange-
ments w'ith them.
Lead Smelting
The Port Pirie smelter of The
Broken Hill Associated Smelters
Proprietary Limited, jointly owned
with North Broken Hill Limited
and Broken Hill South Limited,
again achieved excellent results in
the treatment of concentrates from
the Broken Hill field.
Sulphuric Acid
United Kingdom.—Total de-
liveries at a little over 253.000 tons
or 11% of total U.K. consumption
were at the same level as in 1955.
Australia.—Production of acid
by the Sulphide Corporation at
Cockle Creek was 19% below the
level of 1955 ow'ing to the severe
curtailment of superphosphate pro-
duction following on an unprece-
dented and unusually prolonged
period of wet weather in the main
■consuming areas..
Zinc Alloys
Demand in the United Kingdom
for zinc alloys failed to maintain
the growth shown in 1955 on
account of the severe curtailment
of production in the motor car in-
dustry.
Pigments
Zinc.—Production and sales of
litliopone in the United Kingdom
showed little change from the level
of the last two years.
Demand for zinc oxide suifered
during the year from the marked
recession in the motor trade. A
growing interest in zinc dust for
anti-corrosive paints opens up an
encouraging new outlet for this
product.
Titanium.—Through our invest-
ment in British Titan Products
Company Limited (approximately
31%) we continue to share in the
rapid expansion of the titanium
dioxide industry.
Fluorine and Barium Products
The output of high purity
anhydrous hydrofluoric acid in-
creased, with additional quantities
being supplied to the Atomic
Energy Authority and to some of
the oil companies for use as a
catalyst. Other products based on
fluorine made satisfactory pro-
gress, and the new plant for the
production of “Isceon,” refriger-
ants and aerosol propellants, came
into operation in January, 1957.
The production of barium chemi-
cals. established in 1953, has been
a satisfactory development.
The mining of barytes and fluor-
spar in the United Kingdom was
maintained through the year.
Rutile and Zircon
The plant of our w'holly owned
subsidiary, Titanium and Zir-
conium Industries Pty. Ltd., on
Stradbroke Island (Q.), came into
full operation in the second half
of the year. With a substantial
part of planned output sold ahead
for several years at satisfactory
prices good operating results can
be expected.
Bauxite
In December last we announced
the formation of the Common-
wealth Aluminium Corporation to
undertake the further iuvestiga-
tion and planning for the develop-
ment of the deposits of bauxite
discovered on the West Coast of
Cape York Peninsula. The fact
that a considerable tonnage of
bauxite is contained in these de-
posits is already well established.
Further detailed sampling and
testing is now being carried out
to determine the most favourable
areas for initial development, with
the objective as a first stage of
the production of alumina, the raw
material for aluminium metal pro-
duction.
The second stage of metal pro-
duction is, of course, dependent
on finding suitable sources of
power. In this field the British
Aluminium Company, prior to the
knowledge of commercial bauxite
resources in Australia, had under-
taken, in partnership with the
Commonwealth Government, a sur-
vey of the water power resources in
Papua, which already has indicated
hopeful prospects of a hydro-
electric supply to meet the require-
ments of aluminium metal produc-
tion on a substantial scale. This
joint venture of the Commonwealth
Government and the British Alu-
minium Company also extended to
the -search for bauxite,, and certain
deposits were discovered on the
North Coast of Australia, west of
the Gulf of Carpentaria. Subject
to the concurrence of the Common-
wealth Government we are hopeful
of consolidating these interests in
the Commonwealth Aluminium Cor-
poration, -which would then be
owned jointly by ourselves and the
British Aluminium Company.
In planning these developments
it will be appreciated that we are
embarking upon a major under-
taking. We do not under-estimate
either the magnitude of the task
or the time which will be required
to bring our plans to fruition.
The co-operation and goodwill of
the Commonwealth Government and
the Queensland Government are
essential to the success of the
undertaking, and we appreciate the
warm interest they are showing in
our plans and the assurances w'hich
they have already given of their
sympathetic support and assist-
ance.
In this connection I may men-
tion that, although nuclear energy
cannot as yet offer a supply of
pow-er at the low figures necessary
for competitive production of alu-
minium metal on the site of the
raw material resources, a state of
development has already been
reached w'hich calls for close con-
sideration of the application of
this source of power in the initial
stage of alumina production.
Base Metal Exploration
We continued to carry on the
search for new mineral deposits in
Australia. In the vicinity of Rum
Jungle, Northern Territory, a con-
siderable tonnage of low' grade
lead ore has been disclosed by
diamond drilling. Metallurgical
testing of the ore obtained from
drill intersections is in progress.
In addition to the w'ork on our
own account, w r e have entered into
an arrangement with Mount Isa
Mines Limited for the joint investi-
gation of the mineral possibilities
of certain portions of Queensland
and the Northern Territory.
In Canada w r e are participating in
the investigation and drilling of
several areas covering prospects of
copper, lead and zinc, and we have
joined with Yukon Consolidated
Geld Corporation Limited Gn
which we have acquired a substan-
tial holding) in a base metal ex-
ploration programme.
OH Exploration
During the year Frome-Broken
Hill Company Proprietary Limited,
(Continued on next page )


TIMBER BUSINESS
FOR SALE
BY TENDER
Comprising two well equipped saw mills, one
planing mill, extensive timber reserves on natural
and replant freehold lands and on lease lands.
Comprehensive illustrated brochure is available on
request. All enquiries for any further information will
receive immediate attention.
QUEENSLAND INDUSTRIES PTY., LTD.
Box 688 K, G.P.0., Brisbane.
in -which a subsidiary company of
the group—lnterstate Oil Limited
—holds a one-third interest, con-
tinued work in prospecting areas
held in Queensland, South Aus-
tralia and Victoria. The company
also drilled five wells in the Gipps-
land area of Victoria, but no oil
or gas was encountered.
The boundaries of the prospect-
ing area for oil and gas held by
the company in the Gulf of Car-
pentaria region have recently been
amended to exclude the Weina area
in which are located the bauxite
deposits referred to earlier In this
review. In order to supplement the
relatively sparse geological infor-
mation available on this Weipa
area, Consolidated Zinc has decided
to test the sedimentary section by
a deep drillhole. The interests of
Interstate Oil Limited have been
protected by giving the latter an
option until 30th January, 1959, to
acquire a third share in the busi-
ness in the event of this hole indi-
cating that the area may contain
structures favourable to the
accumulation of any oil or gas.
Research and Development
The Research and Development
Departments have had an active
and rewarding year in work on
the development of new processes
and products.
Employee Relations
Relations with our employees,
both in the United Kingdom and
in Australia, and also with the
various Trade Union organisa-
tions conc'.-rned, have continued
throughout the year on an excellent
footing.
Lead and Zinc Markets
During the past year the opera-
tions of the U.S. Stockpile have
dominated both markets. We have,
therefore, constantly before us, the
problems that would emerge if
there should be a change in U.S.
official policy. We believe, how-
ever, that whilst the underlying
tendency of world inflation con-
tinues and determined efforts are
being pursued to raise the living
standards of undeveloped countries,
the position should in due course
again be in balance. There may,
however, be a period when this
lack of balance will adversely
affect metal prices, and we must
be prepared for the consequences.
This situation is not a new one,
and has been faced successfully by
the group in the past, and we are
therefore, justified in facing the
future with quiet confidence.
The Outlook
In looking to the future it must
be borne in mind that our main
source of income will for several
years ahead be derived from our
present interests in lead and zinc
production in Australia and the
United Kingdom. It must clearly
be some time before the new pro-
jects 1 have outlined can be de-
veloped to a revenue earning
stage, and our activities are more
widely based. In the meantime,
our cash resources place us in a
strong position to face any vagaries
in the markets for our present
products.
L. B. ROBINSON.
Bth May, 1957.
Note : Persona wishing to have a
complete copy of this abridged State-
ment are invited to write to G.P.O.
Box 384 D, Melbourne.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A P.E.P. (“Political and
Economic Planning”)
broadsheet, “Britain and Com-
monwealth Migration,” reveals
that, despite full employ-
ment, there is fairly
wide agreement that a total
population of over 50 million
is as much as this island can
hold. On this premise, a net
annual loss through migration
of about 100,000 persons will
keep the numbers stationary.
According to the Oversea
Migration Board, the four
Commonwealth countries
(Australia, New Zealand,
Canada and the Federations of
Rhodesia and Nyasaland)
require something between
150,000 and 200,000 migrants
a year in the respective propor-
tions of 28, 8, 59 and 5 per
cent. Since there is consider-
able additional migration to
other countries (about 45,000
a year, mainly to the U.S.) the
broadsheet makes out that the
higher figure of 200,000 would
mean a total outflow of nearly
250,000 a year, or almost twice
the 1954-55 average ; and that
the Commonwealth countries
will either have to admit more
non-British immigrants than is
desirable for cohesion or else
to reduce their targets.
Another interesting di s -
closure is that, on balance, the
U.K. is substantially the loser
“in terms of human invest-
ment.” There are no accurate
statistics, but, excluding move-
ments by air, about 132,000
people leave and 75,000 enter
the country every year. While
the important age-groups (20-
44) are reasonably well
balanced as between emigrants
and immigrants, Britain suffers
a disproportionate loss of its
skilled workers, to whom “the
receiving countries offer a
relatively high income and
prospects of fast promotion.”
A comparison between the
census-figures and the latest
returns for migrants to Canada
shows that “certain professions
which are of essential impor-
tance for Britain are several
times more strongly represented
among emigrants than in the
population as a whole” —such
occupations, for instance, as
qualified engineers and
graduate nurses.
The broadsheet asks whether
it is desirable to export tech-
nicians to Australia and
Canada while importing less-
skilled workers from Ireland
and Jamaica, but concludes
that, “in terms of physical pro-
duction the Commonwealth
stands to gain” and that Britain,
“though the immediate loser,
may in the long run benefit.”
Australia last year exceeded
its target figure of 45,000 by
more than 10 per cent, and
expects to take 70,000 this
year. By means of the new
Atlantic “air-bridge” Canada
is taking 25,000 additional
migrants in five months. These
include 5000 Hungarians who
are to be replaced as they leave
by like numbers from Austria.
Orphans on the Storm
The astounding success of
“The Summer of the Seven-
teenth Doll” has rather over-
shadowed another, companion,
event on the London stage—
the appearance, also for the
first time ever, of an all-
Canadian company (Piccadilly
Theatre).
Apart from this coincidence,
the two ventures have little in
common. What happened was
that J. B. Priestley, when in
Toronto, lunched with the
brothers Donald and M*rray
Davis and their sister, Barbara
Chilcott, and was so impressed
that he decided to write a play
for them. This was duly per-
formed at their own theatre,
the Crest, where it broke all
box-office records.
The Canadian background,
though lightly touched, sounds
authentic enough, but, suitably
adjusted, the setting could be
any city. What really emerges
is the double impact of the
author’s robust enthusiasm and
the dynamic personalities of
these three gifted actors. That
Priestley genuinely loves the
theatre and theatre folk (so
long as they are creative artists,
with the smell of size or grease-
paint in their nostrils), and
just as passionately dislikes the
purely money-minded in show-
business, is well known. He
has evidently enjoyed writing
“The Glass Cage,” and the
Little Theatre is the richer for
his gesture.
Not an epoch-making play
nor even an outstanding one,
it is yet thoroughly enjoyable.
The period is 1906 and the
mood is as old-fashioned as
the period—the very kind of
play, in fact, that the author,
when a young man, might have
journeyed over the Pennines to
see performed by Miss Horni-
man’s company.
A stuffy family group, pros-
perous and respect-worthy, is
dominated by a sanctimonious
autocrat who invites the
daughter and two sons of his
dead brother—a careless, like-
able fellow killed by drink and
the Devil—to his well-con-
ducted home. The three are
cynical, embittered, irreligious,
wanton and furiously deter-
mined to storm and shock their
uncle’s smug way of life. They
drink hard liquor, have doubt-
ful pasts and even foul the
living - room with tobacco-
smoke. There is a deed of
transfer in the offing, a strong
suspicion of hypocritical chic-
anery, a touch of secret vice, a
(not too) wild, corruptive orgy
and a final straightening-out
with an unsuspected, but uplift-
ing, twist at the end.
Priestley’s expansive periods,
forthright preaching and
demonstrative, if vague, apos-
trophising are punctuated by
good humor so that, all in all,
the conscious, thumping
rhythm of the play is catching.
If the quality of the acting is
mixed (not least because some
of the players have assumed
English accents) all make their
points in the best Little
Theatre tradition. The
entrance of the three visitors
and their reaction to evening
prayers are superbly and
originally dramatic.


Greatest of Homan Hovels
By NORMAN LINDSAY
From a series of essays on the
world’s great writers: with
illustrations from the original
drawings made by Norman
Lindsay for the 1910 edition
of Petronius published by
Ralph Straus.
THE mysterious portent of
the greatest of Roman
novels, the Satyricon of
Petronius, is that, like
the Iliad and the Odyssey in
poetry, it was born; apparently
out of nowhere, as a great
novel. There is no traditional
precedent behind the work of
either writer.
Doubtless Homer had behind
him the ballad-songs of the
people, narrating .the heroic
deeds of kings and warriors,
and doubtless Petronius had
resources to those products of
popular humor which deal
with the common life of the
people, in his time labelled
Milesian Fables, and in our
time smoking-room stories ; a
term derived from the ’fifties
of last century, when the
gentlemen gathered for a
private symposium of bawdry
and tobacco after the ladies
had retired to bed.
No investigation, archaeo-
logical or aesthetic, has ever
been able to trace the source
of these anonymous products
of popular fancy. They are
handed down by oral tradition,
and those which touch on
present-moment affairs and
personalities appear to be
generated by spontaneous
combustion, and to spread
through a community by
some species of telepathic
communion. Petronius himself
introduces a couple of them
into his narrative, and I fancy
this trick of interpolating short-
stories into the text of the
novel, which lasted down to
Dickens, stems from the
Satyricon.
That first creation of the
novel contains every ingredient
of the novel proper as we
understand its metier today,
save only that it does not use
some centralised plot or
emotional drama about which
the characters are grouped,
and which is brought to a
crisis which finalises the novel.
The form of the Satyricon is
that of the picaresque novel,
of which the other two great
examples are Don Quixote and
Tom Jones. A series of more-
or-less haphazard events is
strung on a narrative relating
to the actions of a central
character, who remains
throughout the constructive
principle on which the novel is
built.
In the Satyricon this central
character is Encolpius, a beggar
student, who, with his fellow-
student Ascyltos and their
slave-boy minion Giton, strolls
the roadte from city to city in
southern Italy, where they are
subjected to all the adventures
and misadventures of a vaga-
bond existence. TTieir journey
allows the writer to give them
free entry to all classes of
society, from the denizens of
slum taverns to the society of
middle-class tradesmen and
financial magnates, from the
women of common brothels to
the homes of ladies who today
we would label members of the
smart-set; those who seek the
hectic diversions of cocktail-
parties and indiscriminate
fornication as the prime
motives of an entertained
existence.
The students, always con-
scious of their intellectual
status, also consort when pos-
sible with the scholars, pedants
and literary rag-tag who com-
pete in public for distinction
as orators and poets. They
never know where the next
meal is coming from, and are
not above stealing as a device
for raising ready money, but
mainly they depend on the pro-
fession of parasite-diners at
the tables of the opulent
classes; and, from living on
crusts and sour wine one day,
dine the next at those mon-
strous Roman dinners which
allow them to gorge themselves
to a state of satiation on
rich foods and rare vintages.
The narrative is in the first-
person - singular, Encolpius
being the narrator, and, in my
opinion, this novel is one of
the few successful experiments
in that most difficult, and also
most slovenly, method of
telling a story. It automati-
cally involves the “I” who tells
the story with the “I” who
writes it, and partisanship for
the teller by the writer is
thereby inevitable. Cool
detachment from personal pre-
judice for or against the other
characters is corrupted, and no
good fiction is ever written
unless that detachment is
maintained.
Encolpius is quite immune
from any posture of self-
esteem. He tells everything
about himself, no matter what
ignominious exposure it may
involve. He may lament the
lambastings and indignities
bestowed on him in such
exposures as evidence of a
malign destiny, but. he never
palliates any evidence which
presents him as its buffoon.
In the breath of chanting
high - minded sentiments in
poetry he descends to antics
very much in reverse of such
sentiments. He can denounce
Ascyltos in terms of outraged
morality for tampering with
Giton’s virtue while indulging
his own amorous ardors in
private with that young cata-
mite, who appears to be the
property of Encolpius, though
whether by purchase, abduc-
tion, or as a hired servant, is
not quite clear. The two
students are constantly brawl-
ing over the lad, denouncing
each other in scurrilous terms
as base fellows who put no
decent restraint on their
salacious urges, even to the
extent of exchanging blows
and lashings ; and, in the breath
of sudh straw-fire furies, revert-
ing to amicable relation, which
are maintained till the next
row breaks out between them.
This, it would seem, is the
febrile way those sports on the
norm of human bisexuality,
labelled homosexuals, conduct
their emotional dramatics ; on
a top-note of frenzy one
minute and all causes of
offence forgotten the next.
Today their antics are
subject to solemn investiga-
tion by the pundits of psycho-
pathology, but in the Rome of
the Caesars they were accepted
as a commonplace in the
spectacle of life, and Petronius
gets an immense amount of
fun out of them as comedy-
figures. It is to be remarked
that whatever lyrical sentiment
Encolpius may indulge over
Giton he never fails to load
him with their luggage when
taking to the road again.
Encolpius pays allegiance so
far to the exclusively-mascu-
line by having affairs with
women, in one case bringing
down on himself the most
ignominious of all nightmares
to male dignity, a collapse of
potency at a crisis of the
embrace amorous. Over Circe,
the lady of that event, he
indulges lyrical raptures. She
is presented as a charming
creature, with a wit to match
her charmsi The affair takes
place in a flowering garden,
that all the graces may adorn
it. And also accentuate its
awful debacle.
Outraged at such an insult to
her feminine self-esteem, Circe
has Encolpius beaten by her
servants, spat at by her
scullion-wenches and hurled
into the street, whence he flees
to hide himself in his apart-
ment, and give himself over to
all the furies of a degrading
exposure, raving at the gods, or
at his own treacherous body,
in alternate outbursts of poetry
and forensic declaration, and
collapses into abysmal gloom.
With all that, Encolpius
remains a likeable fellow, and
the sympathetic bridge is
maintained between him and




the reader, since it is through
his eyes that we are given the
spectacle of life as seen by
Petronius.
Though every character in
the Satyricon, however small a
. part he plays, is drawn with
those swift word-imageries
only to be matched by Dickens,
its great central figure is that of
Trimalchio, the slave - born
emancipist, whose commercial
cunning and rapacity have
raised him to the millionaire
class. He is painted so richly
in the round that he ranks
as one of the greatest character-
creations in fiction, along with
Falstaff, Mrs. Gamp, Don
Quixote, Squire Western,
Dugald Dalgetty, Panurge, old
Grandet . . . There are others,
but those are the ones which
jump most readily into
memory.
Trimalchio is a full-length
portrait. Every facet of his
personality is explored and
exposed. We are not told
about him; he is exhibited
before our eyes by speech,
gesture and action.
Like all parvenus of great
wealth who dominate a horde
of servants and sycophants, he
has the illusion of being
immune to derisive criticism
and so exposes himself to it
every time he opens his mouth.
He is viewed at the summit of
h i s concept of greatness,
presiding over a dinner of
monstrous proportions, minis-
tered to by an army of slaves,
and beslavered by the flattery
of his parasites. His first
appearance in the novel
stamps him unforgettably on
the reader’s mind : a fat, bald-
headed old man in a scarlet
tunic playing ball with a group
of long-haired boys, while a
couple of eunuchs stand by,
one with a bag of fresh balls
as Trimalchio disdains to use
one which has dropped to the
ground, and the other with a
silver chamberpot, in which
Trimalchio relieves himself
during the ball-game.
It is a notable touch that
the eunuch in charge of the
balls keeps a sharp eye on
those which have been
dropped. Obviously he will get
into trouble later if these are
not gathered up when
Trimalchio departs. Petty
economies are a constant con-
stituent in rich men who have
risen from penurious begin-
nings.
This little touch is typical of
Petronius all through the
novel. He never comments;
leaving all such significances
to detection by the reader.
When Trimalchio’s wife
shows a pair of gold bracelets
to her friend Scintilla, Tri-
malchio calls for scales to weigh
the bracelets and demonstrate
their quality, though the place
is littered with gold ornaments
and utensils. When the guests
commend the excellence of
his cook, he tells of how he
brought the fellow a set of
carving-knives when last in
Rome, and immediately calls
for the carving-knives so that
the guests may try their
sharpness by shaving a
cheek. He can’t keep the
balance anywhere between the
exposures of puerilities like the
above and his posture of the
great man disdainful of the
wealth he is constantly boasting
about.
His steward comes in to
read the account of the last
month’s commercial dealings
in slaves and property, which
refers to the purchase of
Pompey’s Gardens by Tri-
malchio. “When did I buy
Pompey’s Gardens ?” demands
Trimalchio. “Last year,” says
the steward. On that Tri-
malchio falls into a,rage and
commands that unless he is
informed of such buyings
within six months they are not
to be recorded in his monthly
accounts. In the breath of dis-
missing the purchase o f
Pompey’s Gardens as a trifle
not worth recording, he orders
a slave to be beaten for break-
ing a dish.
He boasts of his learning in
the classics and his three
libraries in Greek and Latin
and accredits Homer as having
written the tale of Cyclops
putting his thumb out of joint
with a Mawkin, and says that
at Cumae he saw a Sybil in a
glass bottle who answered
questions.
To these exposures of Tri-
malchio as the illiterate par-
venu, his private life is
presented to us in the row
between him and his wife For-
tunata over a slave-boy whom
Trimalchio fondles in his cups.
Denounced by Fortunata as a
dirty old goat for kissing the
boy, he deals her a slap in the
face that sets her bawling, and
then, though he has previously
commended her as a worthy
housewife, rants at her as a
trollop, a harlot rampant,
whom he took out of a bawdy-
house and made an honest
woman, capping his fulmina-
tions with the awful anathema
that when he is dead she will
not be allowed to kiss his
corpse. From that he falls into
the maudlin tears of a
martyred husband, whose last
years are embittered by a
termagant wife ; and is there-
by revived to review his life,
which sets him boasting of
his foresight in cornering the
market in essential trade-com-
modities ; a compact itinerary
of his background by which
Petronius lets us see how a
smart slave endowed with
commercial cunning in his era
may arrive at becoming a
millionaire . . .
Habinas, the monumental-
stonemason, a guest at the
dinner, is another Falstaffian
character. A jovial fellow, an
old-time friend of Trimalchio,
an established intimate of the
family, he plays a prank on
Fortunata, overturning her on
the couch so that she makes
an exhibition of her bare legs,
and diverts himself by imitat-
ing the sound of trumpets
with a cockeyed slave, who
blows -into the neck of a
broken lamp while Habinas
makes trumpet-noises through
his compressed lips . . .
The dinner goes on inter-
minably with the constant
arrival of fresh courses, and
the amount of food consumed
is horrifying to the meagre
resources of a present-day
stomach. When Trimalchio
leaves the room for an inter-
val, the guests exchange table-
talk freely among themselves,
and their chatter, racy and
colloquial, presents us with
the daily life of the people in
the very breath of living it, as
no reconstruction by socio-
logical historians can hope to
do. I must resort to quotation
as an example of its rich-
ness :
“I don’t bathe every day; cold
water has teeth and eats away
one’s strength, but when I have
a good dose of wine in my guts,
I bid defiance to cold. Besides,
I was at a funeral today.
Crysanthus has passed out.
Such a good fellow he was. We
were together only last week;
1 think I can hear him talking
now. But we’re all no more
than blown-up bladders on legs
—mere bubbles. You’ll say he
wouldn’t take advice, but not
a crumb of bread or a drop of
water passed his lips for live
days. He died of the doctor,
for what are doctors good for
only to give us a bit of
comfort? But in my opinion,
his time was come. His wife
didn’t seem to care much, but
women are a kind of kite; doing
good to them is throwing money
down a well.”
“He only got what was due
to him. As he lived so he died.
He came of nothing and to his
dying day he would have picked
a farthing out of a dunghill
with his teeth. I have eaten a
dog’s tongue and dare speak
the truth; he had a foul mouth
and was a brabbler—a mere
make-bate, not a man. His
brother was a fine fellow; a
friend to his friend and kept an
open table. He didn’t order his
affairs well for a start, but his
first vintage set him up ■again.
He was one of fortune’s sons—
lead turned to gold in his hand.
He was seventy-odd when he
died, hut he bore his age well,
was as hard as horn and as
black as a crow.”
“Talk of the living. What
makes victuals v so dear these
days? So help me Hercules, I
haven’t had a mouthful of bread
today. It’s this drought we’re
having. A plague on those
clerks of the market—they and
the bakers juggle things together.
You wink at me and I’ll blink
at you, and we hard workers
get nothing while those jaw-
bones make festival every day.
1 remember Sasinius; when I
was a boy he lived down by
the old arch. You'd have taken
him for a peppercorn rather
than a man. Wherever he went
the ground smoked under him.
When he was on the bench he
tossed everyone like a ball—
made no starched speeches—in
the market-place his voice was
like a trumpet —no hawking and
spitting. And then, so ready to
return a salute, and call every-
one by his name, as if he’d been
one of us. hr his time, corn
was as common as dirt; you
could buy more bread for a
farthing than two men could eat.
Now everything gets worse day
by day. If com holds at the
present rate 1 will have to sell
my house.”
“It’s just the way things go;
this way today ami that way
tomorrow, as the countryman
said when he lost his speckled
hog. If you were in another
place, you’d say hogs walked
about here ready-cooked. And
now I think of it, we are to
have a first-rate show these holi-
days; a fencing-match prize for
the people, and not a lot of
cheap bought slaves. Our
patron Titus has a great soul,
though he’s the very devil when
drunk; doesn’t care a straw
which side wins. They’ll be
given the best weapons and will
fight it out to a finish; the
theatre will be a butcher’s
shambles. His father left him
a fortune, and let him play
ducks and drakes with it, the
estate can bear it. What sort
of show is Mammea like to give
us? The last one he gave us
was of such a pitiful old mob
of decrepit sword-players you
could have blown them down
with a breath. I’ve seen better
at a funeral-pile, you’d have
taken them for dunghill cocks
fighting in the dark. One was
a gouty, jolter-headed fool,
another had a club-foot and a
third had the stringhalt. The
only one who put up a good
show according to the rules of
the game was a Thracian, the
rest were just a block-headed
rabble—mere runaways. And
yet, says he, ‘l’ve given you a
show’ ”....
('Continued on page 57)




SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Brilliant Sydney sprinter
Mandingos, racing now in top
form, could make it three in
a row by lifting the £lO,OOO
Q.T.C. Stradbroke Handicap
on Saturday week. Mandingos
has won upwards of a dozen
races and is one of the most
brilliant gallopers in training.
His latest success, in the Flying
at Rosehill last Saturday, was
achieved without undue
pressure on the part of his
jockey, D. Weir, who has
enjoyed a fine run of success
on the five-year-old Masthead
gelding. Weir will have the
mount in the rich Brisbane
sprint.
Mandingos carried 8.8 at
Rosehill. He drops 51b. in the
Stradbroke, and at 8.3 seems
particularly well placed, be-
cause he won at Randwick at
his previous start (May 18)
with 8.4.
Of the beaten horses in the
Rosehill Flying, Aboukir
(third) and Kingster (fourth)
appear the only likely chances
against the better - fancied
Stradbroke horses, but they
face a tough task with Man-
dingos in his present form, and
Commedia, second to Man-
dingos at Randwick, a top-
class galloper, and well suited
at seven furlongs, another
strong contender.
The grey Flecked Marble
has come into the Stradbroke
picture following his brilliant
win at Eagle Farm on Satur-
day. He covered the five
furlongs of the Lightning
Stakes in 59sec., is not liable
to a penalty, and is on the
limit, 7st.
• • • - •
Book Link, easy winner of
the Q.T.C. Suburban Handicap,
11 furlongs, in which he
defeated Sydney gallopers Aqua
Boy and Electro, is a Brisbane
Cup aspirant and one of . the
favorites, for that June 17 two-
miler. A three-year-old geld-
ing, Book Link (winner of the
Guineas in Brisbane, as well as
the Queensland Derby and
other races) carried 8.8 at
Ascot and drops to Bst. in the
Cup. Aqua Boy also carried
8 8, and he drops to 8.2, while
Electro comes down 61b. to
9.0. Book Link is trained by
Fred Best for his wife and he
was ridden by their son Noel,
who has a fine riding record
in Brisbane. Honey Dew, dam
of Book Link, is by Christopher
Robin (imp.) from Brunette by
Magpie (imp.). As family-lines
include Artilleryman, a winner
of the Melbourne Cup, and as
Honey Dew is from a staying
line, too, the Best family could
well land the two-miler (worth
£12,315, and one of the richest
plums of the Queensland Turf).
. Ken Livingstone was prob-
ably too busy on his property
in the Moree district to come
to Sydney to see his three-year-
old Westquarter win its first
race, Rosehill’s First Parra-
matta Stakes. The gelding had
no trouble accounting for
.Vixenet and the disappointing
“Keep right behind me, Charlie —this is
dangerous country !”
favorite San Siro, who doesn’t
appear to be as good as first
anticipated. Bred by his
owner, Westquarter is by Bois
de Rose (imp.) from Thibet by
Titan (imp.).
Neil P. Raynor, owner of
Vauhaut, winner of the second
Rosehill event, is also a
country man. He made a rush
trip from his Mudgee property
to be there in time. His father
won several races with the
Portfolio breed, including
Blazeaway, Rillsdale and Dura-
bay. He also came down from
his Mudgee property to see
Vauhaut win. Rosebery trainer
Stan Wheeler prepares their
horses.
• • • •
Gay Vista, one of Sydney’s
best sprinters, is a brother to
Gay Port, who had an easy
win in the Warwick Farm
midweek Second Two-year-old
Novice, starting at odds-on.
Both geldings are by Port Vista
(imp.), winner of three English
sprints; his progeny have won
upwards of £60,000 in stakes.
• • • • •
Though beaten out of a place
in Warwick Farm’s First
Two-year-old Novice, New
Zealander Luck’s a Fortune
ran well enough to the final
furlong to be worth noting
down for an early first win.
Ken Austin bred the Lucky
Bag (imp.) colt, whose half-
brother, Volonel, won eight
events, including a couple of
two-year-old races on Sydney
tracks. Privilege, the dam of
Luck’s a Fortune, won in
weight-for-age company on
New Zealand courses. In one
event she defeated Golden
Souvenir and Blue Trout. Her
sister, Deprive, won 10 races,
including Auckland’s Royal
Stakes. Privilege is by De-
faulter, sire also of Gay Vista’s
dam, Gay Fault.
“Horses for courses” worked
out correctly when Redbank,
now trained at Rosebery by
Harry Horton, had a comfort-
able win in the Welter at Rose-
hill—he has now won six races
there. G. Moore handled Red-
bank with skill, taking the
short-cuts from the start.
Form of Fran Mac hasn’t
been of much consequence for
a long time,' but evidently he
had shown connections some-
thing on the track to warrant
the plunge on him in the Rose-
hill Welter. He, however, never
looked a winner, and finished
in the middle of the field. Most
surprising feature of the event
was the performance of the
]OO-to-l Charente (second). In
previous races he had shown
ability up to only six furlongs
on Sydney tracks, and few
expected him to run out 7-£•
furlongs. However, he is more
solid now, and earlier this year
he won at seven furlongs in
Adelaide.
* • • •
With three wins and a third
from four starts, the two-year-
old Star Kingdom (imp.)
gelding Gold Stakes has a good
record, and it should be added
to after he returns from a well-
earned spell. Trainer Jack
Green regards the black
speedster as one of the most
brilliant horses he has had
under his care, and as he has
trained such good horses as
Kingster, Felstorm and Ultra-
blue he knows about brilliance
in a horse’s make-up. Gold
Stakes beat the race record,
1.13|, when he covered the six
furlongs of the Rosehill Two-
year-old Handicap in 1.12 6/10.
His sire is also sire of outstand-
ing two-year-old Todman, and
of Concert Star, Kingster, Star-
over, My Kingdom and many
other good ones. Gold Stakes’s
dam, High Stakes, was got by
Brueghel (imp.) from Velia by
Moabite (imp.).
Twelve months ago Pedro’s
Pride was put to jumping after
being an abject failure on the
flat. Since then she has won
six times over fences, and
earned £5250. She is easily the
best jumping mare this writer
Las seen, and the talk at Caul-
field among veteran racegoers
rated her the best in living
memory. Last Saturday’s win
in the M.R.C. Steeplechase
over 2m. 3f. was her third in
as many starts this time up.
Providore, with 2st. less than
the big mare’s 11.10, tried to
steal the race, but Pedro’s Pride
easily followed the fast pace,
jumped clear three furlongs
fiom home, and was untroubled
to beat off a challenge from
Allaw in the run along the
straight. She pulled up as fresh
as paint, and it looks as if
neither weight nor distance will
slop her from winning this
year’s National.
It is doubtful if the National
winner was seen in last Satur-
day’s M.R.C. Hurdle. Law
Pursuit gave .a dashing display
to win the race by six lengths,
but the Faircourt gelding is
possibly too brilliant to see out
the exacting three miles of the
National journey. Trainer Jack
Besanko does not agree with
that view, but Law Pursuit


A.M.P.
news for private company directors
A new plan for
key men has recently
been introduced by the
k A.M.P. Society
r , This pfcm hcs remarkable
advantages in helping you solve youf
INCOME TAX and DEATH DUTY
problems.
Contact your A.M.P. Representative of
telephone your nearest A.M.P. office
for full information.
, if n ® ?
SYDNEY 6 0530; MELBOURI)jE_ MB 1781
BRISBANE-FA 1881; ADELAIDE*-U2372
. PERTH—BA2OBI; HOBAH~|J62t j
mt
ifilPiiiiil
' •. * \
llliiiS ■ ••'
:
V ' v :"
Mmm® wmm
m
|x%ppp?ilp§s|
iwss* : :S
tlllllfll
lllillll
tm.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICEi 87 FITT STREET. SyDNEy • GENERAL MANAGER: M. C. BUTTFIELD
rtuw


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co* Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— Hn Divorce.
TO H EAT H KR BAKU R.—TAKE
NOTICE that. MAVIS IRENE CORNISH
has tiled a Petition for Divorce No. TOO
of 3 957 proving for a Divorce from
ARTHUR DOUGLAS SCOTT COR-
NISH on the ground of his adultery
with you You may apply to the
Court to be allowed to defend the
charge if you so desire and you may
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from C. MCCLELLAND SMITH,
Solicitor, of 07 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.—,T. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR DOUGLAS SCOTT
CORNISH late of 130 First Avenue
Five Dock. —-TAKE NOTICE that
MAVIS IRENE CORNISH lias filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 100 of 1907
on the ground of adultery If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Snpnine Court King Street Sydney by
12th August. 1957 and obtain a copy
of tile Petition without charge from
C. MCCLELLAND SMITH, Solicitor, of
07 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.— In Divorce.
No. 95 of 1957.
TO LESLIE STOTT ' formerly of
Ulinga Station via Gavali in the State
of New South Wales Shearer’s' Cook. —
TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a
Notice to you to appear and .answer
tin* charges in the Petition of EDITH
STOTT of 105 Gormanston Road
Moonah in Tasmania Married Woman
praying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground or desertion IN DE-
FAULT of. your so appearing, you
will not he allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the
said charges proved and pronounce judg-
ment therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days of the publication
of this Notice an Appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of
the Supreme Court, Macquarie Street,
Hobart, iu the State of Tasmania.
DATED the-.24th day of May, 1957. —
H. R. DORBIE, Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN WONNOCOTT
late of 32 Henson Street Summer Hill.
—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE IRENE
WONNOCOTT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1287 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 16th August 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from J. BIRNJE JACKSON &
COATES, Solicitors, 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
appeared to have had enough
when he passed the post on
Saturday. None of the other
runners impressed as a National
prospect.
Both divisions of the Murray
Handicap for two-year-olds at
Caulfield went to horses whose
form augured little for their
chances. The first division was
won by Lesbrae, a black colt
by Helios (imp.) out of
Maemanto, one of the best
fillies of her year. Lesbrae,
whose only previous success
was a small race at Werribeej
is owned by J. M. Wilson,
proprietor of the South Mel-
bourne abattoirs and a chain
of butcher-shops. Buxton, who
had scored impressively at
Moonee. Valley at his previous
start, was sent out a hot
favorite, but showed no liking
for a track made heavy by over-
night rain, and finished well
down the running. .
Lauriston Lad, who took the
second division of the Murray
Handicap, is a colt by the
imported Neapolitan from St.
de Lass. His only previous win
was a small Maiden race at
Yarra Glen. He came home
very strongly to win by two
lengths, and gave the impres-
sion that he would appreciate
a longer distance. His sire
twice won over a mile-andra-
half on English courses, and
Lauriston Lad may have
inherited his stamina.
• • • •
New Zealand-bred gelding
Wales put up a most impressive
performance to win the six-
furlongs Flinders Handicap for
three-year-olds at Caulfield.
From barrier 20, he had to be
used up to keep in touch with
the early leaders. Sixth on the
turn, he fought his way to the
front a furlong out, and still
had enough in reserve to beat
off a strong challenge from Big
Strike. Wales is by the French
horse Targur out of Sea
Anemone. Targui won races
at from six to eleven furlongs
in France,and was . leading
first - season sire in the
Dominion. Djebel, who got
Targui, was leading sire in
France in 1947-8-9.
Former Sydney galloper
Andonni has struck a patch of
form. In his last three runs —
all at Caulfield —he has won
twice, and been placed. Some
contended he was lucky to
score in last Saturday's Spring-
vale Handicap, taking the view
that young apprentice rider
G. Collins lost the race when
he took the favorite, Baroda
Beam, to the front too soon.
However, Baroda Beam is
suspect over a mile-and-a-half,
and his main chance of success
lay in trying to steal the race.
The winning ride on Andonni
completed a double for lead-
ing jockey Bill Williamson.
A winning double to young
Epsom apprentice A. Yeomans
at Caulfield on Saturday
brought the lad’s tally of metro-
politan wins for the season to
seven. In this writer’s opinion,
he is the most promising
apprentice seen on Melbourne
tracks for years. He has a
nice seat on a horse, can use
vigor when he has to, and
already is an excellent judge of
pace.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
Weekend big football: In
Brisbane N.Z. had no great
trouble defeating Australia
22-9 in the second Rugby
Union Test, though very poor
kicking for goal spoilt any
chance Australia may have
started with ; N.Z. thus retains
the Bledisloe Cup.... At
Soccer, N.S.W. tw4ce defeated
Queensland. In Sydney N.S.W.
won the first game, which was
more even than the scores
would indicate, 5-2; the
Northern forwards often had
the local defence worried, and
several times were unlucky not
to goal. In the second game,
at Wallsend, the score was
6-4. These were N.S.W.’s first
wins over Queensland after five
losses and one draw this year
and last year.
* * *
In Sydney’s Rugby Union,
Gordon stayed on top of the
table by crushing North 30-6 ;
St. George, second on the list,
beat Drummoyne 14-3 ; Rand-
wick, though with five stars in
Brisbane for the Test and two
other regular first-graders out
with injury, swamped Manly
25-6 ; East scored five tries to
two in overcoming Parra-
matta 20-16; and University
smacked Eastwood, which is
holding on pretty firmly to the
wooden ladle, 22-8 In
Sydney’s Rugby League, top
billing was easily kept by St.
George, cantering home against
Canterbury 45-8 (11 tries to
none); in an exciting match-
of-the-day North beat Balmain
32-22; Manly - Warringah
managed West 21-15 ; New-
town, with Kangaroo fullback
Clifford, . who’s been hurt,
returning to form with a try
and six goals, overwhelmed
East 33-14 ; and once-mighty
South Sydney showed signs of
its former might, though only
against unhappy Parramatta,
50-10.
“Jock”: Fastest man —on
either side —in the All Blacks-
Australia first Test was 20-year-
old Ken Donald, a Queens-
lander ; he can break evens—
wound-up fifth, in fact, in the
Australian 100yds. champion-
ship last year. And he’s versa-
tile: he> repped for Queens-
land G.P.S. at cricket in 1954
and 1955 ; in 1954 he won the
G.P.S. 100yds., and in 1955
carried off the 200yds. and
broad-jump.
* * $
The latest topsy-turvy result
in the V.F.L. was Richmond’s
seventh-round two-point win
over Melbourne, 7.10-6.14. The
Tigers benefited from Mel-
bourne’s poor kicking, as they
had earlier in the season from
Fitzroy on the occasion of
those 31 behinds. Hawthorn,
back on top'of the table again,
overran Footscray in a devas-
tating third quarter, to win
11.11-7.8, and Carlton, level on
match-points with Hawthorn,
kept up its winning run at
Essendon’s expense, 13.9-7.20,
the Bombers also being some-
what off-target. There was a
bit of a donnybrook near the
end of the game. Collin<*wood
thwacked St. Kilda, 12.16-8.9,
while Fitzroy had a good win
over Geelong—down at Gee-
long, too —17.11-14.15. In the
other game, a very even one,
North had four points to spare
over South, 11.13-11.9.
• • • •
“C.A.A.”: The sharp Sharps
aren’t the only trio of the same
name starring in the V.F.L.
(B. 22/5/’57). Equally talented,
and in the top bracket in their
respective teams, are Don
Williarns (Melbourne half-
back), Geoff Williams (half-
back for Geelong) and Yin
Williams (Fitzroy wingman).
They have one other thing in
common—all were recruited
from country districts.
Young Westralia'n forward
John Gerovich, who was
selected as full-forward in the
“Australian” team after last
year’s Perth carnival, kicked
9.2 in South Fremantle’s
winning 23.13 against Swan
Districts (16.15) a week or two
back. The following week he
was right on target again, 10.5
in South’s three-point win over
Perth, 16.18-17.9. Remarkably
he got both big tallies from the
centre-half-forward position.
Against Perth he kicked his last
two goals in a blackout after
a heavy fall—deservedly carried
off shoulder-high, he was so


NOTHING EQUALS
B Warmray's Amazing Efficiency
wa/mra y
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME. HEATER
&fljs
m.
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
■X- Large Capacity
—• Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate fur
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing tu fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
JL- Heats over 5,000
cu. ft.
X Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
■fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
Full view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
yL- Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
, ★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciation efWap
worlds mos! l=
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
mrnmmmm
WARM2AY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency is
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air In the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL- BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Scores, Builders’ Suppliers ana.
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents
shaken he wouldn’t have been
able to walk off hi any case.
Gero was the hero of a game
(against Perth, that is) described
by South veteran Frank
Treasure as the greatest match
he’s played in—and Treasure
has played in some 240-odd
games for South, as well as
inter-State games.
* * *
Weekend mixed-grill; Merv
Lincoln won an invitation
mile-race in California, in
4min. ssec. ; his third race
in America against some
good-’uns, too —and he’s won
two of them. The following
day an “unknown” American,
Don Bowden, ran the mile in
3.58.7, third-fastest time so
far.. . .French tennis singles-
title won by the Swede, David-
son, runner-up (to Trabert and
Hoad) in the last two years*
after the last two Australians
left in, Cooper and Rose, had
both been eliminated in hard-
fought five-set semi-finals. The
doubles-final, an all-Australian
affair, was won easily by
Anderson and Cooper from
Rose and Candy.
* * *
Former Australian Test-
captain lan Johnson has been
appointed secretary of the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club ; he’ll take
office on July 1. Johnson was
chosen from 45 applicants. As
a proved all-rounder, in
business off the field as well as
on it, he should do all right
in what is an important post
in the Australian cricket
world. Some notable cricketing
giants have already occupied
the post, including Hugh
Trumble, who still holds the
record number of wickets (141)
for England-Australia Tests,
and dashing left-hand bat
Vernon Ransford, whom John-
son directly succeeds.
“K.R.”: Wisden, of course,
never names any one player as
a “Cricketer of the Year” more
than the once ; but it did seem
strange when Jim Laker wasn’t
listed among the 1957 five.
For if anyone was ever a
Cricketer of the Year, it surely
was the Surrey off-spinner last
year,' with his devastation of
Australia in the Tests. Two
Australians, Burke and
Langley, are in the five—
deservedly so ; but of the three
Englishmen named, only one,
left-hand opening-bat Peter
Richardson, played in any of
last year’s Tests. This is
because all the other English
stars have already been
Cricketers of the Year—Laker,
for instance, in 1952, May also
in ’52, Bailey in ’5O, Compton
back in ’39. Only one man
■ who played for England last
year has not already been so
honored by Wisden —the tall
Sussex all-rounder Oakman,
who failed as a batsman in two
Tests.
* * *
“N.A.8.”: Few men have
dabbled so widely in sport as
Jeff Noseda, a member of
Coogee Bowling Club, and a
winner of many bowls-trophies.
Jeff is assistant-secretary of the
Sydney Turf Club, but his first
love was Rugby; he was
secretary of the N.S.W. Rugby
Union for years before going
to the S.T.C., and he was
manager of the Australian
overseas touring sides in 1939
and 1947.
- * _ - * *
“Joanne”: A guest at the
Australian jubilee surf-
championships at Bondi this
year was George Brown, of
Bondi, winner of the first
N.S.W. surf-title in 1914. Also
present was Bill Thomas
(Bondi), a member of the first
squad to gain the bronze-
medallion he’s No. 3.
Members of the second bronze-
medallion squad Albert
Anderson (medallion 15), Karl
Chilsers (17) and Charlie Bell
(24)- I—also 1 —also turned up. Bronze-
medallion holders in the
Sydney metropolitan area now
exceed 43,000.
* * *
“Veryl”: I see the “Calaveras
County frog-jumping jubilee”
was held the other day in San
Francisco —I didn’t know there
were such games, but it’s of
interest that two Australian
croakers were over there for a
leap. One Aussie, Down Under,
jumped a distance of 9ft. lin.,
2in. short of the winner’s leap.
The other, Reedy River
Rom :*-, was more reedy than
romping, and finished well
down the river with a mere
3ft. sin.
* * *
“Fell Maken”: Three years
ago in Sydney some bowling
enthusiasts stared a G.P.S. Old
Boys’ Competition, with eight
competing fours. For the
1956-57 season there were 12
fours entered ; three of the
nine schools had two entries.
As the curtain-fall of a ding-
dong comp, -the last round was
played at Parramatta at the
end of April, the deciding
match between St. Joseph’s and
Sydney High. After fluctuating
scores, High ran out winners—
of the game, by 23 shots to 22 ;
and the premiership, 44-43.
Another competition begins
this month, and a close comp,
is again tipped.


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft articles
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
(Incorporated in the British Colony ©/ Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) ' W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of two poems published in
“Nash’s Magazine” in 1919, one
enluled “Have You?” and the other
“I Have.” —6515.
To buy copy of The Animals Noah
Forgot. —64l9.
To buy copy of The House of
Fulfilment, by Adams Beck. —6420.
1 o buy copy of Land of Hope and
Glory, by Frank Clune. —6421.
To buy the following 'copies of
“The Australian Forestry Journal”:
vo). 1; vol. 2 (nos. 1-9, 11); vol. 3
(nos. 1,2, 4-12); vol. 4; vol. 5
(nos. 2,9, TO); vol. 8 (no. 1); vol.
9 (nos. 3,5, 7, 10-12); vol.-10 (nos.
1-3, 8,9); vol. 11 (nos. 5-12); vol.
12 (nos. 2, 5-12) ; vol. 13 (nos. 5-12);
vol. 14.—6517.
To buy copies of the following:
“The Minutes and Proceedings of the
Engineering Association of N.S.W.”
(vois. 1,4, 5,7, 18, 21-23, 25, 26,
31); Official Year Book of the Com-
monwealth of Australia (nos. 1,4, 7,
8, 16); The Official Year Book of
N.S.W. (1905-6, 1906-7, 1925); T. A.
Coghlan’s The Wealth and Progress
of N.S.W. (nos. 3-6, 8 and onwards);
“N.S.W. Department of Mines’
Geological Survey, Mineral
Resources” (nos. 1-6, 8-15, 20, 25,
2.i, 29, 31, 40 and onwards). —6518.
Information Sought
Brief account of the “kiosk
murder” in Sydney soon after World
War II?
In the evening of Jan. 2, 1946,
Mrs. Jeanette Wicks was foQnd by
her brother battered and strangled
in her kiosk in York-street, Sydney.
After one of the biggest detective-
hunts in Sydney’s history a 26-year-
old newspaper-reporter, Douglas
Ronald Morris, was arrested for the
muider. Police claimed that robbery
and unpaid s.-p. debts were the
motive; £2OO and betting-slips were
missing from the kiosk. Morris’s
trial began on April 29, 1946, and
lasted 10 days. The case against
him rested on circumstantial
evidence —the finding of a blood-
spotted suit in the rafters of his
home, an s.-p. debt to Mrs. Wicks,
and the fact that he had at first
denied having been at the kiosk on
Jan. 2, and then admitted that he
had gone there to pay her, found
her lying dead, had panicked and
fled, later hiding the suit he had
worn, which had become spotted
with blood at the kiosk. Morris
established an alibi for the time
(approx. 3.30 p.m.) at which screams
and shouts had been heard coming
from the kiosk, and he was
acquitted. (Morris collapsed and
died of a heart-attack on Mar. 25
last year.)
* * * *
(1) Some information on the P.
and O. liner Arcadia ? (2) is she
the latest P. and O. liner to be put
on the Australian run ?
(1) Launched in May, 1953, the
Arcadia, of , 29,734 tons, is the
largest liner on the England-Aus-
tralia run. She cost £5ig6,500,000
to build, her cruising speed is 22£
knots, and she has accommodation
tor 670 first-class anti 735 tourists.
Her crew numbers over 700. Both
first-class and tourist passengers
have their own swimming-pool,
spacious dance-deck, lounge, cinema,
etc. There is also an observation-
lounge just below the bridge to give
passengers a “captain’s eye” view.
Her smokestack is of unconventional
design, wider at the base than at the
top,, so that no ash falls on the
deck. A pair of 'retractable fins
prevent a lot of the rolling in high
seas. Under Captain C. G. Forrest,
she left Tilbury ,on her maiden
voyage on Feb. 22, 1954, and
reached Sydney on Mar. 28, 1954.
Her present captain is Commodore
E. R. Bodley. Leaving Sydney on
May 19, she is at present bound
for London. - Mr. Menzies, who
joined "her at Fremantle, is one of
those aboard. (2) No. A later
addition to the P. and O. fleet is the
29,600-ton Iberia, which made its
maiden voyage to Australia towards
the end of 1954.
* * * *
Particulars of the Corbeit-
Fitzsimmons fight for the world
heavyweight-title ?
“Gentleman Jim” Corbett and
“Ruby Robert” Fitzsimmons fought
on the night of March 17, 1897, in
Carson City. Corbett, having
vviested the title from the great
John L. Sullivan, had held it for
five years; in that time he defended
it against Charley Mitchell and
Peter Courtney (he put Mitchell
away in three rounds and Courtney
in six), appeared on the stage in
“Gentleman Jack” and “Naval
Cadet,” then announced his
retirement.
But a 15,000-dollar purse (and a
5000-dollar side-wager), together with
those lures instinctive to the fighter,
brought him back to meet
Fitzsimmons.
In his book, Big Fight, Denzil
Batchelor writes: “At the time
....Fitzsimmons bald, huge-
barrelled and spindly-legged—was
nearly 35. He had left England as
a child, and first attracted the atten-
tion of (Jem) Mace when he won
the New Zealand amateur champion-
ship. Mace liked the look of the
heavyweight with the feather’s legs,
and exported him to Sydney, where
in the back-room of the White
Horse in George-street Larry Foley
taught him the finer points of the
rough-and-ready oraft that brought
him victory over Starlight and
Greentree, Sandall and Riddle before
he sailed for California in his
twenty-ninth year.”
Weighing only list, when he
arrived, Fitzsimmons attracted little
attention, and scarce more when he
beat a couple of unknowns in his
earliest scraps; only when he
knocked out Jack Dempsey one
snowy evening in New Orleans was
he recognised.
Leaving the ring that night he
asked loudly: “Now, what about
Jim Corbett?” Says Batchelor: “No
one answered —for six years. Then
at last Fitzsimmons, surely past his
best, got hrs chance aganioi tins
prodigy who had brought airs and
graces and Irish elegance to the grim
old game.” Little wonder, then, that
Corbett entered the ring at unback-
able odds, while 8 to 1 was freely
quoted about Fitzsimmons.
From the start the fight took the
course of the odds: “For a half-
dozen rounds,” Batchelor writes,
“Corbett hit his man at will with
trip-hammer lefts which sprayed the
ringside seats with blood that already
cloaked Fitz. from flaring nostril
to navel.” In round eight he took
what must have been an agonising
count of nine, only to rise and go
on with it, a “scarlet-daubed statue.”
Then, in round 14, when Corbett
was tired from hitting his man as he
pleased, Fitz. released his famed
secret weapon—the solar-plexus
punch. It had as terrific an effect
as can ever be dreamed of a secret
weapon: Corbett sank to his knees
—and stayed there, listening,
paralysed, to the fateful count.
“Years after,” Batchelor goes on,
“he put it all down to the atmos-
phere of Carson City, where a man
might never catch his breath once
he had lost it.”
Corbett did catch his breath, how-
ever—after the brawl was over; and
he tore across at his conqueror “in a
last bewildered attempt to fight on.
Seconds, managers and friends stood
guard over the new world champion,
and held Corbett at bay.
Brief Answers
Brisbaneite: Had you put a
signature to your letter, it would
have been possible to have given
you a more complete reply direct.
But there is a simple explanation
to the omission of any reference to
the Barnes-Stewart fight in The
Bulletin of May 22 —the sport-
page- went to the printer an hour or
two before the fight.... A.L.S.: The
British Commonwealth Forestry
Conference (the seventh) begins in
Sydney on Aug. 1 Mrs. T.C.
(Cumnock): You win; his 50n....
Mr. Cosway: As a result of their
inquiry, Westinghouse Brake (Aus-
tralasia) Pty., Ltd., have received a
reply from their London company,
informing them that up to the
present they have been unable to
Lace any information on the model
or of Mr. Budge, from either
libraries or park-authorities. They
suggest that if you have any other
recollections —or, perhaps, photos—
which might put them on the track,
you should let them know 1.G.:
(1) Suggest you contact Miss E.
Rae, 41 Prince Albert-street,
Mosman, N.S.W. (2) The fee is
£7 7s. per week J.1.T.T.: Author
Frank Clune’s address is given in
Who’s Who in Australia, 1955 as 15
Prince’s-avenue, Vaucluse, N.S.W.
W.S.: You should write for
information to Somerset House,
The Strand, London J.S.: Yes,
you appear to be eligible for the
old-age pension, and you should


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO JOAN WILLIAMS lace of Goulburn.
—TAKE NOTICE that VALMA MAY
DOBBS lias filed Petition tor Divorce
No. 4121 of 1954 praying for a Divorce
from WILLIAM JOHN DOBBS on the
ground of his adultery' with you You
may apply to the. Court to be allowed to
defend and service upon you will be
deemed to be completed by the 10th day
of July 1957 A copy of the Petition
mabe obtained without charge from
MESSRS. BARRY NORRIS WILDES &
LENDER, of GO-G 6 Hunter Street,
Sydney, City Agents for P. W.
SHERIDAN, of Kempsey, • the Peti-
tioner’s Solicitor. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ROBIN CARLOTTA JONES late of
Mandalay Guest House Nowra.- —T\KE
NOTICE that TERENCE OSWALD
JONES has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 532 of 1957 on the ground of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If }OU wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street, Sydney by 12th August 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from MESSRS. JOHN CRAM &
SON, Solicitors, of 26 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH LAWRENCE DAL-
GLEISH late of 1/19 Goreen Street
Reid A.C.T.—TAKE NOTICE that
MARCIA PHILUPINE DALGLEISH
has filed Petition for Divorce No. 939 of
1957 on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse. If you wish to defend
you may file an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 14th August 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LESLIE RUNDLE, G 6
King Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of*— •
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING -INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
apply to the Department of Social
Services. They will tell you how
much your pension will be....
Mother O'Neil: You are not liable
for damages for anything that is not
due to your negligence... .J.H.:
No; no one is buried as a pauper
merely because he is getting the old-
age pension. The amount the
Government takes out of an estate
depends on the size of the estate
and the person to whom it is left.
There is an allowance for widows.
...,P.C. (Darwin): The answer to
both questions depends on the
nature or ihe inhentance and the
country of origin. The rule of
private international law is that the
order of the Bankruptcy Court
which has jurisdiction over the
bankrupt's person is effective to
transfer all his moveable property
in the country where that property
is found. Whether a particular
country recognises this law depends
entirely on the Government of the
country concerned. Unless there
is some reciprocal legislation between
the two countries, it is difficult to
see how the Official Receiver couid
obtain an order which would be
effective against a trustee in a
foreign country. The situation in
regam to ail countries within the
British Empire is entirely different.
M.G.G.: Death-duty starts at
£lOOl us. od., and is subject to
exemptions; it makes no difference
whether there is a will or not. Duty
is paid out of the estate, and the
estate is liable for it. Anybody who
wishes to keep the estate intact —that
is, to p; event any part of it from
being sold—may pay the death-duty
if he wishes. You could perhaps
explain to them that you intend the
policy as protection for your family.
....J.S.D.: The changeover by
Tasman Empire Airways, Ltd., from
flying-boats to landplanes began on
May 14, 1954, with a flight from
Sydney to Auckland by a D.C.6
aircraft withdrawn from the Qantas
trans-Pacific service; The last trip
by flying-boat from Sydney to N.Z.
(.Auckland) was on June. 27, 1954,
by Aotearoa 11, the plane which
had carried the Queen and Prince
Philip on nights in me Pacnic during
the Royal tour in 1954....
S.K.: In 1741 Bering explored the
coast of Alaska, and from this time
on the Russians were active in the
area, establishing sealing and fishing
stations. In 1821 Russia claimed the
coast south of Lat. 51, and, with
Britain and U.S.A. protesting, for-
bade foreign ships to approach
within 100 miles. The matter was
settled by treaties between Russia
and U.S.A. (1824) and between
Russia and Britain (1825), giving
Russia sovereignty thereabouts. On
Mar. 30, 1867, U.S.A. bought
Alaska for 57,200,000, the formal
transfer taking place on Oct. 18,
1867... .G.E.: (1) Ray Lindwall
captained Australia in one cricket
Test—the second Test against India
at Bombay (Oct., 1956). Both
Johnson and Miller were unfit to
piay in this Test. (2) West indies’
wicketkeepers on the tour of
England are Kanhai and Alexander.
It does not seem that Walcott is
doing any ’keeping. (3) Laker was
reported as having received
£stgll,uB6 from his benefit-season
last year.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
ail MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
relumed unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. sho'uld be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
undei standing that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
8.G.5.: Customs-raid story sheer
contraband R.K.: “The Clod-
hopper” managed to hobble as far
as the basket.. . .S.G.: Moves with
the speed of an aged turtle
A.McA.: Flaxen - moustached
liqueur-addict escorted firmly off the
premises... .D.W.: Try for a better
command of everyday English
T.T. : You too, Tom J.J.H.:
Those “poised, affluent businessmen”
lead more like nincompoops
E.K.: “Ode to Gnats” ungnatural.
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
. ...K.R.: Sorry we can’t assist
your “threescore hungry deadbeats,
shuffling ragged-soled and thread-
bare to the soup-kitchen” F.C.:
That cattle-dog is a stock model.
C.G.: Can’t imagine how you
hope to break in with that sort of
nonsense G.L.V.: “Nightfall”
rhymed with “frightful” is 0.P.:
Not much reader-interest... .K..J.:
Smooth as tapioca 8.8. L.:
“The Flighty Flathead” gutted....
A.W.: What on earth’s a “super-
imposed tonic thirteenth”?....
P.T.: The Religious Editor slipped
next-door for a schooner after read-
ing “The Siren of Singapore”....
T.M.: ft has its moments —but there
are too few of them A.K.0.:
100 fantastic for words, your ten-
thousand, anyway S.G.F.: You
might have at least shaved the
whiskers off that one before sub-
mitting it H.D.: Let “The
Cobbler” stick to his last R. 1.:
“Anyway, we’re not all Kiplings.”
Agreed.
How to be happy
though incompatible
Do your interests, tastes and
opinions differ from those of
your husband or wife are
you incompatible?
In June Reader’s Digest,
noted author Hannah Lees
shows you how these very dif-
ferences can actually streng-
then your marriage if you
don’t waste time and energy
fighting them.
Also in June Reader’s Digest
there’s a host of other interest-
ing and informative features.
These include New Weapons
Against Heart Disease, The
Day Death Passed Me By, and
o condensation of the thrilling
book, The Amazing Crusoes of
Lonesome Lake.
Enjoy June Reader’s Digest
—only 2/- at your newsagent
and bookstall now!


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Piease add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SUEZ —FIRST ROUND
r T'HE most optimistic com-
ment on the British Prime
Minister’s announcement that
British ships would use „ the
Suez Canal on Nasser’s terms is
that this only marks the end of
the first round in the Suez
issue. The opinion of sharper
critics was probably summed-
up by Lord Salisbury when he
said that the British Govern-
ment’s decision came “far too
near to a complete capitulation
to Colonel Nasser than many
of us would have felt palatable
or, I was almost going to say,
endurable.”
In the following sampling of
overseas comment, that from
the “New York Times” is a
complete editorial and is a
good example of that paper’s
clear and forceful writing on
the subject since the beginnings
of the Suez troubles.
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “President Nasser
clinched a complete if still pro-
visional victory over the West
when Britain, bowing to
‘practical necessity,’ ended the
boycott of the Suez Canal and
in company with Western
maritime nations permitted
resumption of traffic through
it on terms laid down by the
Egyptian dictator. The British
action is in line with the stand
of the United States and the
Canal Users’ Association,
which held that a continued
boycott of the canal was
impossible. The only conces-
sion Britain has obtained is
the right to pay the canal tolls
to Nasser in British currency,
in return for which it will facili-
tate limited trade with Egypt.
“If permitted to stand, this
arrangement would in effect
make Western Europe
economically and militarily the
hostage of Nasser, and through
him of the Soviets. Western
Europe derives 60 per cent, of
its oil for both civilian and
military use from the Middle
East and will need much more
for the planned economic
expansion within the Euro-
pean Economic Community
and especially for any military
complications. The most
economic way of transporting
this oil is through the Suez
Canal, and any new closing of
it at Soviet instigation could
deal Western Europe a crip-
pling blow.
“It is ironic that this stulti-
fying result has been achieved
under the leadership and pres-
sure of both the United Nations
and the United States, which
adopted a completely one-
sided approach to the Suez
crisis and reneged on their own
principles and pledges. For
this arrangement has been
imposed by Nasser in violation
of the Suez Canal convention
of 1888, in defiance of the
Security Council's principles
for a settlement of the canal
issue, and in disregard of
General Assembly resolutions
and declarations by both Sec-
retary-General Hammarskjoeld
London “News Chronicle”
“SO THAT'S WHAT THEY MEAN BY ‘USING THE CANAL
UNDER PROTEST,' ABDUL!”
and President Eisenhower.
This is especially true in the
case of Israel, which Nasser
continues to bar from the
canal.
“All this gives added impor-
tance to Prime Minister Mac-
millan’s statement that Britain’s
present action does not consti-
tute agreement to Nasser’s
terms and that Britain reserves
all rights to press for a more
equitable settlement through
negotiations, through the
Security Council and through
the World Court. But Nasser
obviously holds that possession
is nine points of the law, and
it remains to be seen whether
anyone will disabuse him.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”:
“As everyone expected, British
ships will now sail through the
canal on the terms laid down
unilaterally by Egypt. Britain,
like other users, does not regard
these terms as a permanent
settlement; she reserves her
rights. That cannot disguise
the failure of the user countries
to act together and win from
Egypt a proper international
settlement. Their deliberations
have ended in a polite free-for-
all and devil (or competition
from ships that use the canal)
take the hindmost.
“The [British] Government
has, at any rate, acted sensibly
in choosing not to be the hind-
most. It has got an interim
agreement with Egypt on tolls
that is reasonably favorable.
Egypt has not held out for
payment in hard currency, or
for the unblocking of all her
sterling balances. Instead,
enough sterling is to be made
available for British shipowners
to pay dues, and talks with
Egypt on the various financial
claims and counter-claims are
to go on.
“We might have done worse ;
we could have done worse if
Egypt, counting on a flight of
British shipping to flags of con-
venience, had been stubborn.
There remains the greater
failure: the canal lies open,
but under no internationally
agreed safeguards.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph' ” ;
“Strategy in the second round
against him [Nasser] must be
directed towards- isolating him
from the misconceived alliance
that ensured his victory in the
first. The United States already
sees him for what he is. The
next moves must be to expose
Nasser before the United
Nations ; to that end he should
be challenged at every step in
the Security Council or in the
International Court.
“Egypt is already in long-
stand in g defiance of the
Security Council's resolutions
calling on her to admit Israeli
shipping through the canal.
The plans which Israel is now
making to put this right to
practical test should have the
most emphatic support not only
of France, but also of Britain.
“This is an issue that touches
us [Britain] vitally; for if Nasser
is allowed to deny the canal
to Israel on the ground that
a state of war exists, he will
have precisely the same excuse
for denying it to us —and can
be trusted to hold the threat
over us in any negotiations for
post-Suez compensation. In
short, the freedom of the canal


ftuUi lit
k
jp ‘ ’ AY-. j y:%:
'
„--yT • *?V,r t
There will be many departments to the
International Geophysical Year when it begins on
July 1. but the one which I believe will draw
Australian attention is the 10-nation plan to
chart and explore the Antarctic continent.
Here below us lies a land mass nearly twice
the size of Australia, and to almost half of it we
lay territorial claim.
Fewer than fifty years ago its mystery had
been touched only at its fringes by an adventurous
few. The past thirty-five years have brought the
mapping of its coastline by land and sea and air,
but still only one-eighth of the huge area has been
sighted.
By the end of 1958 it is hoped to have every
significant feature of it covered in aerial survey,
and expeditions will have attempted the first
crossing of the white continent on foot.
Forty stations, using the most modern
techniques, will have accepted its challenge in a
programme of Continuous research.
The thickness of its ice will be measured,
the structure and magnetism of its surface rock
will be examined, its influence on climate and
weather will be gauged.
And the findings of the physicists, the
geologists, the meteorologists, will be pooled in
the greatest single drive to which international
Science has applied itself.
It is fitting that Australia, which has been
prominent in Antarctic exploration, should now
be taking her place in the revealing of these
southern secrets.
Our national team will be one of twenty
expeditions to land on Antarctica in the
Geophysical Year. Its members will be select men,
leaders in their line, worthy successors to those of
our race who made the South Polar lands their
earlier quest.
And they will be .adding to the Australian
story, no less than did the explorers who first
crossed our inland plains. For every advance that
is made in knowledge of the Antarctic must give
Australia herself a more central place in the world
of the future.
under the 1888 Convention is
the first point on which Nasser
must be pinned down.”
* * *
Aneurin Bevan in London
“T r i b u n e” : “The difficulty
with President Nasser is that
he always wants things both
ways.
“He wanted a state of war
with Israel and at the same
time complained when Israel
took him at his word. He
wishes to enjoy the benefits
of United Nations’ action on
his behalf, and at the same
time claim the right to impose
unilateral conditions about the
main cause of the dispute.
“In most parts of the world
it would probably be held that
the humiliation of France and
Britain is a just price to pay
for their armed attack on
Egypt. But the story will not
have been completed in a
fashion that accords with con-
cepts of international equity,
unless Egypt now pays her
tribute to the world conscience
which has kept her free.”
* * *
London “Financial Times ” :
“From now on, whatever else
happens, the European
countries will be cautious of
relying too much on oil. One
of the first major products of
this policy is the decision of
the Euratom experts to recom-
mend a 150 per cent, increase in
the nuclear-power programme
of the six Common Market
countries. The British nuclear-
power programme has also
been increased, in this case by
200 per cent. Even the short-
term effect of such large
nuclear-power programmes will
be substantial.
“The oil companies have'
been given a new incentive to
concentrate on pipeline con-
struction. The new pipeline
which is now being discussed —
assuming that it is built,
although this is by no means
certain would carry 70-
million tons, or nearly the same
quantity as the Suez Canal
carried last year. Thus the
need for the Suez Canal has
been diminished both by plans
for replacing it with nuclear
power and for replacing canal-
transport by pipeline-trans-
port.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman”:
“The sole essential British
interest in the canal lies in free
navigation on reasonable terms
of payment. It must be
remembered that physical
control over the canal is out of
the question. What we must
seek is a binding obligation on
Egypt to allow free passage.
Other motives, such as the
desire to bring about the down-
fall of Nasser, merely compli-
cate the question. There is no
reason to believe that if Nasser
were overthrown his successor
would be more trustworthy.
And it should not be forgotten
that it is very much in Egypt’s
interest that ships should use
and go on using the canal/’
* * *
London “Spectator” : “So
ends Act One. But Act Two
may well turn out to be even
more difficult. The essential
problem remains: the relations
between Israel and the Arab
States. At the moment the
Israelis are making up their
minds when to send a ship
through the canal. Not
‘whether’: when. The American
argument will almost certainly
be what the British argument
used to be: not just yet! Wait
—the Israelis will be told —
until tempers have cooled:
until Nasser sees that he can
no longer rely on the support
of the other Arab States on
the question of the freedom of
passage, or until economic
pressure brings him to his
knees.
“It is unlikely that the
Israelis will be prepared to
accept this argument. They
have heard it too often. Nor
is it likely that they will be
prepared to wait for the judg-
ment of The Hague Court, or
of whatever other international
body may be chosen to arbi-
trate. The Israelis can hardly
be blamed if they come to the
conclusion that the issue will
have to be freed, sooner or
later, and that it might as we’l
be sooner. If so, the refusal
by the Egyptians to let an
Israeli ship through the canal
would be a declaration of war.
“Naturally this is a dangerous
situation ; but it will not be
made less dangerous simply
by telling the Israelis to be
patient and all will be well.
They have no cause to take our
[Britain’s] word for it. There
is consequently no point in
the Government using what
little influence it has left to
deter Israel from action. What
further climbing-down has to
be done will have to be done
by Nasser. We have put our-
selves in a position where we
have few sanctions in our
grasp ; but what we have can
at least be used to secure this
one benefit—the only benefit,
it may turn out to be, from
the whole Suez affair —that the
shipping of all nations can once
again go through the canal
without fear or favor.”
* * *
London “Time and -Tide” :
“All the trouble and humili-
ation of Suez are themselves


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
( Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager (or Australia.
Kit? mom SAFE
SANDERS
<%^FILE|
Correspondence, ist oicet,
statements, etc„ filed in the
•‘Sanders** can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect boolr of reference at
the end of each month —Or
any other period.
Prices and faff*
(her informatics
upon applicative
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
riEia
Nm«m Brei. Pty. Lt 4
Vardan Price Ltd.
Elitll iNlt Co. (Aai(4
only secondary manifestations
of a deep malaise in inter-
national politics. Suez has
never been the whole of the
Middle East crisis, only a
partial expression of it. That
crisis remains unresolved and
there seems as little disposition
to tackle it resolutely and
straightforwardly now as there
was before last July.
“AM the old dangerous
illusory platitudes are being
brushed up and paraded anew ;
much effort is going into pro-
moting the thesis (which ought
to have been discarded years
ago) that a combination of
military aid and economic aid,
both on as lavish a scale as
possible, will win and retain
Arab friendship. As a corollary
to this it is argued that the
friendship of the Arabs is
worth any and every sacrifice
(as though the Arabs were not
themselves divided into indi-
vidual nations, with separate
characteristics and religious
schisms) particularly if the
sacrifice has to be made by
the Government and people of
Britain.
“This was the folly which for
nearly nine years prevented any
practicable settlement of the
Arab-Israel dispute ; this was
the folly which precipitated the
withdrawal from the Suez
Canal Zone base ; this is the
folly which, even now, inhibits
any attempt to impose the one
obvious effective sanction
control of the Nile waters —on
Colonel Nasser and his regime.
“Too many people, politicians
and officials alike, who are
deeply imbued with it, still
hold places of influence and
authority. Mr. Emile Bustani,
Colonel Nasser’s clever, rich
Lebanese contact-man, is now
in London eagerly peddling all
the old, glib stories about the
importance of securing Arab
friendship and the wonderful
results which will follow if only
we ‘understand’ Arab aspira-
tions ; there are far too many
ears ready to hearken to this
dangerous propaganda.
“There is only one Arab
nation at present whose friend-
ship is worth a rap —and that is
Irak. The day that Nuri es
Said dies or is assassinated,
that asset will go, unless Irak
can be genuinely and finally
detached from the welter of
intrigue, heady ambition and
xenophobia which so deeply
atfects the Arab world nowa-
New York “Herald Tribune."
MOSCOW HORSE-TRADER
days. For the rest, Egypt and
Syria are Soviet satellites ; King
Saud, sustained by American
oil royalties, is as anti-Western
as Colonel Nasser; the young
King Hussein is ringed by
enemies, as vengeful as they are
cunning. It is a sorry story.
“When the new chapter
opens, how will it be headed?
It is not particularly difficult
to foresee the developments of
the immediate future. Colonel
Nasser, whose prestige had
dropped sharply as a result
of his failure in Jordan (to
say nothing of his resounding
military defeat at the hands of
Israel), is most unlikely to let
matters rest over the Suez
Canal. A new ‘victory’ will
very soon be necessary. Mean-
while Israel has announced her
determination to send a ship
through the canal, in due
course, to test her right—under
the 1888 Convention, which
the Egyptian Government
claims to observe—of free and
innocent passage. Interference
with this ship would be an act
of war and would be bound
to precipitate a new phase of
the crisis.
“These are facts which must
be faced. The final attempt
to resolve the Middle East
crisis can be postponed once
more, but not for long. When
the reckoning comes it is likely
to be even harsher than our
recent grievous and shameful
experience.”
* * *
London “Economist
“There are cogent reasons for
ceasing to hanker after the end
of the Nasser regime as if this
would solve a problem of
British policy. People who
know Egypt see no logical
succession to it except chaos;
and the most likely result would
be the triumph of the xeno-
phobic Left Wing of the Army,
or of an equally anti-Western
Moslem Brotherhood, or of
both in alliance.
“None of these possibilities
would do Britain any good.
Certainly the British Govern-
ment need not go cap in hand
to Egypt: President Nasser
has learnt some hard lessons in
the last few months. He needs
the West, for economic reasons
if no other. He is busily learn-
ing that he cannot lead his
Arab brethren by the nose into
increasing conflict and disorder
without paying some of the
price himself. This is a time
when Britain could demand
a halt to the anti-British cam-
paign in the Middle East as
the price for ending the most-
disfavored - nation treatment
that has been accorded to
Egypt since July.
“Finally, a working relation-
ship with Middle Eastern
nationalism is at present impos-
sible to the West unless it is
on terms with Egypt. The
momentary Western successes
in the Middle East are being
built on a few ruling cliques
whose authority is not
necessarily stable; convenient
as these successes are their
political value may be fleet-
ing. In the end, it will be
through Egypt that the West
re-establishes contact with the
main body of Arab national-
ism, which, whether the rest
of the world likes it or not, is
an established fact of political
life in the Middle East. This
cannot be done by incubating
a sense of grievance.”
Volkswagen
The odd circumstances under
which the Volkswagen works
have been without an owner
since the German Labor Front
collapsed with the Nazi regime
—the plant has been in the
joint-trusteeship of the West
German Government and the
Government of Lower Saxony


Come in and drive the
NEW HOLDEN UTILITY
Holden Coupe Utility £9lO plus tax
This new Holden Coupe Utility not only looks handsome , but is designed to bring
you better driving comfort , better handling ease and famous Holden performance
and economy. One short demonstration drive will prove this to you.
Real driving comfort
You and two adults sit in comfort on a
57" wide seat, upholstered in tough,
PVC plastic covered fabric, as easy to
wash as the PVC plastic headlining.
You enjoy a road hugging ride, the
result of new front suspension with
stabiliser bar, new 6 leaf rear springs
and a longer wheelbase of 105".
Better handling ease
Take this new Holden out on the road.
Notice the firm, fight steering brought
about by the new re-circulating ball
steering system. The smaller turning
circle of only 36! ft. greatly assists
handling this vehicle in tight places.
Another big factor in safe, easy parking
and backing is the increased visibility
from the new, curved windshield and
the new, wide, wrap-around rear
window.
Greater overall economy
Find a hill and demonstrate to your-
self the power of the 6 cylinder, 21 h.p.
Holden engine. This fine engine gives
you flexible power and an overall
operating economy which makes
Holden a pleasure to own. Not only
do you get Holden’s notable petrol
economy, but the famous Holden
dependability keeps your maintenance
costs down to a minimum.
Whether you are a businessman or
on the land, the Utility that can do the
best job for you is HOLDEN*—
Australia’s Own Utility. Contact your
local Holden dealer and arrange that
demonstration drive right away.
See your Holden dealer about the
GMAC Hire Purchase Plan • “Air
Chief ” Car Radios have been specially
designed for Holden.
HOLDEN* - Australia's Owa Utility
*REGD.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
SOLD AND SERVICED BY HOLDEN DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
—-look like coming to an end
with the undertaking of the
German Economics Minister
(Hr. Erhard) to sell the concern
to private investors.
Commenting, London
“Financial Times” finds Dr.
Erhard’s scheme “interesting for
several reasons”:
“The limitations on the maxi-
mum size of any individual
holding, together with the
limitations on proxy voting,
should effectively ensure that
ownership is diffused among
a large number of small share-
holders ; the scheme of rebates
of up to 20 per cent, of par-
value for subscribers with
small incomes should encourage
purchases from sections, of the
population not usually accus-
tomed to equity investment.
If the scheme proves a success
it might be a prelude to the
denationalisation of over 300
other enterprises in which the
West German State has a stake
of over 25 per cent.”
To which London “Econo-
mist’’ adds that “Volkswagen’s
competitors will no doubt seize
avidly on the hope that their
rival will become less com-
petitive once it, too, has to pay
dividends”:
“They should not indulge too
fond hopes. It may be some
time before the bulk of the
shares is sold. And Volks-
wagen, though it has ploughed
back profits vigorously, has also
been amassing reserves against
the day when an owner might
be found, as well as paying 50
per cent, of its profits to its
own workers. The firm will
continue, moreover, to enjoy
the benefits not only of its
excellent management, but also
of the brilliantly simple basic
design of its product.”
The H-bomb
Bertrand Russell, discounting
—in a London “Daily Mail”
interview—the popular notion
that he is in favor of banning
the hydrogen-bomb:
“I’m not in favor of its
abolition. Fear is a great and
effective force in human nature.
The H-bomb is a real deter-
rent in three ways not possessed
by any previous weapons. It
gives equal power to each
side ; the leaders are no safer
than the rest of the population ;
and the devastation would be
on such a scale as to make any
victory very problematical
indeed.
“Atomic weapons are the
only thing that put East and
West on an equal footing.”
Various Voices
’ Mohamed Ali, Pakistani
Ambassador to the U.S.:
“International Communism is
much more dangerous than the
hydrogen-bomb. The bomb
destroys life, but international
Communism destroys the soul.”
Prime Minister Macmillan:
“In Russia, it seems, the very
rich pay hardly any tax at all.
A man who in Britain would
keep less than half his income
would in Russia keep nearly
90 per cen(. I wonder if the
time will come when all the
masses in Russia will come to
Britain to join the Welfare
State, and all the managers in
Britain go to Russia to obtain
the advantages of a classless
society.”
Mr. George Pollock (Director
British Employers’ Confedera-
tion) : “Everyone [in Britain]
suffers by the wage-price spiral.
If the position were accepted
that higher wages are there for
everyone to earn but that all
increases in wages must be
earned before they are paid, we
should have taken a long step
towards real prosperity for all.”
Lord Montgomery : “The
Hungarians have reminded the
world what can be achieved by
courage alone. If the Western
alliance can have strength and
courage, there is no limit to
what it could achieve, provided
that its members also have
unity in the true sense of that
word.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Local Government
If local-governing bodies in
N. S. Wales want to have a
crack at the Cahill Government
for depriving them of at least
one necessary power they
possessed under Section 363 of
the Local Government Act of
1919, here are the facts:
The section of the Act
referred to gave councils power
to “control and regulate places
of public amusement or resort
and control and regulate the
conduct of people therein in
the interest of public safety,
convenience and order.” Sec-
tion 530 of the same Act
defines councils’ powers under
Section 363 as “any power
given by this Act to regulate or
to make ordinances for regulat-
ing shall be deemed to confer
power to license, prevent or
prohibit.”
When residents of the lower
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.) dis-
tricts of Glenbrook and Blax-
land were lately threatened
with an invasion of trotting
and dog-racing under a licence
issued to the Blue Mountains
Trotting Club by Chief Sec-
retary C. A. Kelly, they turned
triumphantly to the sections of
the Act mentioned and called
on the Blue Mountains City
Council to prohibit the intro-
duction of such “sports.” But
a canny legal officer of the
council produced a copy of the
Gaming and Betting Act, 1912-
1953, which overrides the sec-
tions of the 1919 Act and pro-
vides for the issue of licences
for horse-racing, trotting and
greyhound-racing by the Chief
Secretary without reference to
council.
The only authority possessed
by a council after the issue of
such licence is in respect of an
application for the erection
of buildings on the course.
Councils, of course, still have
the power to prohibit the con-
duct of any type of sport on
any parks under their control;
but once a licence to conduct
racing, trotting or greyhound-
racing is issued by the Chief
Secretary and the club con-
cerned can obtain private land
on which to conduct its
activities, the council is power-
less to intervene.
It is odd, to say the least,
that while councils still have the
right to object to the building
of a hotel or picture-show in
any particular location and can
voice their objection at a
public hearing, there is not
even an obligation on the Chief
Secretary to inform them that
he has granted a licence for
racing or trotting within their
area.
When local-governing bodies
throughout the State realise
how the authority which they
possessed for many years has
been taken from them they
will make a united protest to
the Government for the
restoration of such power. If
they don’t, they’re not worth
their salt, M. F. Dixon
(N.S.W.).
Technologists
The difficulty that some
Western nations (Britain in
particular) are experiencing in
recruiting engineering man-
power does not appear to be
a comparable problem in
Russia.
In 1955 educational institu-
tions in the Soviet Union
awarded some 65,000 engineer-
ing diplomas. In the same year
the British output of graduates
of broadly equivalent qualifica-
tion was only 5000. Granting
the Soviet four times the
population, it was then train-
ing about three times as many
engineers annually as the
United Kingdom. Within only
a few years it is expected that
Russia’s available technical
staff will fill its needs so that
no great expansion from then
on will be necessary.
As well as being a highly
respected profession, engineer-
ing in the Soviet Union is a
most attractive one financially.
A qualified engineer in a lead-
ing industry may .earn up to
60,000 roubles a year, equiva-
lent to about £5500 at the
official rate of exchange,
though worth very much less
in comparative purchasing-
power.
In such a climate Soviet
authorities have no difficulty
in turning out engineering
professionals and teachers
alike. For every vacancy in an
engineering course at the
country’s 179 technological
and engineering institutes there
“O.K., I get that. But watta I do with me fag?”
are three of four applicants,
including an appreciable
number of women for whom
engineering is not, apparently,
an unusual calling.
Students are financed by
State grants of up to 500
roubles a month. Their courses
extend over five to five-and-a-
half years and include
practical training in college
workshops as well as about
six months’ experience in
industry, during which time
students work as assistants to
engineers, sometimes in junior
managerial jobs.
The fact remains that the
Soviet Union'is still far behind
Western Europe and America
in the amount of power
available per head of popula-
tion. It is unlikely to relax
until this leeway is made up,
and it is, perhaps, this sense of
urgency that gives the Soviet’s
great output of technological
manpower its special signifi-
cance. — Jaxon (Vic.).
TV
it would be informative to
have the real opinions of the
film-censors on the rubbish
they have examined seeking
admission for TV-programmes,
properly slated by “Emptor”
(B. 8/5/’57).
The report of the Film
Censorship Board for 1956,
just issued, points out that the
Broadcasting Control Board,
under the TV Act, has laid
down the general lines expected
from censorship in relation to
films for TV. Generally speak-
ing, these follow closely the
principles acted on for many
years in the censorship of
films for showing in theatres,
but “in view of the fact that
television is in the home and
that children, particularly in
the early evening hours, have
ready access to television-
receivers, the censorship of
these films is on a rather
stricter basis.”
Whether this is any reassur-
ance to parents I don’t know.
But the report, after stating
that of the 3,000,000 ft. of
film submitted to censorship,
82 per cent, came from the
U.S. and 17 per cent, from
Britain, went on to say that 18
TV films had been rejected
and 187 had been subjected to
“eliminations” before being
passed. “The rejections and
excisions related mainly to
excessive violence. There was
almost a complete absence of
anything objectionable from
the sex angle.”
Admittedly, these are early
days for TV, and a few honest


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the Sehool.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A.. B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY UMITED
incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
station - operators warned
buyers of time that it might
be at least two years before
the programmes reached
efficient and acceptable
standards —and that it might
be a good deal longer before
either Australian live sessions
or Australian-made commercial
interludes became satisfactory.
Advertisers were persuaded
to come in early on the plea
that time would not be avail-
able later, but, as “Emptor”
says, the sponsors won’t like
paying for the present small
viewing public.
Latest figures announced in
Canberra to the end of March
show that viewers’ licences
total only 33,642, with 21,769
in Victoria and 11,873 in
N. S. Wales. The number of
new licences in March was
3304 in Victoria and only 2733
in N. S. Wales. If it hadn’t
been for the Olympics in Mel-
bourne the total probably
would not be anything like
it is.
The Commonwealth, inci-
dentally, has collected £167,377
from viewers’ licences and £4OO
from station licences, £88,193
in excise on cathode-ray tubes
used in sets and £469,373 in
Customs duty. Its expenditure
on TV services to the end of
March was £2,188,537. By
comparison, receipts from
radio-listeners are estimated to
yield £5,050,000 in 1956-57
Ex-ACT (N.S.W.).
Anzac Day
I find it hard to credit the
statement by “Collins Street”
(B. 1/5/’57) that “since 1936
the few elderly men who hold
the power in the Victorian
R.S.L. have been able to block
all efforts to hold a plebiscite
among members” for a change
from the Sunday-type to the
Saturday-type observance of
Anzac Day.
The Victorian set-up must
be very different from those of
other States. In Westralia, for
instance, the matter has been
the subject of a full-dress
debate during the annual State
congress (at which every
R.S.L. sub-branch is entitled to
be represented) for the past 10
years and more. Every year
proposals to have the present
Sunday-type observance altered
have been rejected, mainly by
the votes of the younger men,
who are now beginning to
control congress. Further,
increasingly large attendances
at the Dawn Service and at
the forenoon ceremony on the
Perth Esplanade, as well as at
afternoon ceremonies in the
“Watch out for trapdoor-spiders!”
suburbs, suggest that the
general public approves of the
current system.
Every year, before Anzac
Day and before the annual
congress, interested parties in
Westralia try to flog-up a cam-
paign in favor of the half-and-
half observance. The main
arguments for a change are
allegations of keg-parties by
returned men while the rest of
the public go dry, and the
naive suggestion that the fallen
whose sacrifice we com-
memorate would prefer the
Saturday-type of observance.
How these pressure-groups find
out these things is beyond
comprehension. In this State
no R.S.L. building is open for
convivial purposes on Anzac
afternoon. If there are keg-
parties they are private shows
run by individuals, and there
is nothing to prevent others
from having a drink at home,
or a keg in the backyard on
Anzac Day, provided the
State’s liquor laws are not
infringed.
This year several motions
about Anzac Day observance,
including one for a referen-
dum, are listed in the agenda
for the annual State congress,
but any resolution carried by
the R.S.L., even as the result
of a referendum, can be an
expression of opinion only. If
any change is to be made that
can only be done by an amend-
ing Act passed by the State
Parliament—and Parliament is
unlikely to take action unless
there is an overwhelming body
of R.S.L. and public opinion
in favor of a change—Pip
Tok (W.A.).
Coastal Shipping
It’s amazing how politicians
intrude in subjects on which
they are ill-informed.
Debating shipping charges,
Hewson (Lib.) told the Reps,
the “roll-on-roll-off” Ameri-
can shipbuilding-system should
operate here to give us ships
to encourage increases of
coastal cargoes—yet ships are
already laid-up through lack
of business. Kearney (Lab.)
criticised shipowners for not
erecting awnings over wharves
to allow continuous work in
rain, and O'Connor (Lab.) said
no country can be held to
ransom as is Australia by ever-
increasing overseas freight-
rates.
Thinking people in coastal
shipping see no prospect of
regaining lost trade unless
inter-State roads are ruined.
Early post-war shipowners
accepted half the cargo offer-
ing from each shipper due to
lack of space. Today they are
scratching for cargo and are
losing customers almost every
voyage.
Since the Section 92 business
road-hauliers and railways
have been making hay at the
expense of coastal shipping.
The likely prospect for a few
years hence is that little but
bulk-cargoes will remain for
ships
Road-haulage has decided
advantages over sea-transport.
It is door-to-door without inter-
mediate handling on wharves,
and without pillage or other
damage; charges are often
lower ; there are no wharfage
or stacking charges, and no
seamen’s or wharfi e s ’
stoppages. Goods today are
even road - hauled between
Sydney and Perth —bulk-cargo


(salt from Adelaide to Perth)
is partly lost to shipping. From
Sydney to Adelaide by road
takes two days ; a ship might
not be ready to begin her slow
sea-passage in that time.
Wharfies treat seagoing
cargo irresponsibly despite un-
employment. Bagged cargo
ripped open by careless
handling and pouring i t s.
contents on deck and wharf
causes raucous laughter. Cases
are prised open with wharfies’
hooks to see if contents are
worth stealing. Hold-watch-
men fail in their duty for fear
of physical violence. The story
is endless.
Posters on wharves illustrate
careless handling and warn
“Less cargo—less jobs.” The
W.W.F. demanded compulsory
attendance at a stopwork
meeting to discuss unemploy-
ment, but it can be taken for
granted the foregoing was not
mentioned as a direct cause of
consignors’ preference for
overland routing. Honest
wharfies (there are some) must
follow the mob. Hearing one
express disgust with his fellows’
dishonest habits, I asked why
he didn’t propose reform at
union meetings. He replied that
if he did he would be followed
home in darkness and bashed.
Another, who remembers
the depression, said he had
pleaded at union meetings for
a fair deal for both sides and
had been howled down
derisively as a bosses’ stooge.
That decent Australian citizen
owns a house, has a bankroll,
and has put three children
through college on wharf-earn-
ings. He bought a new car for
cash and invited me to inspect
it while new. A wharfie’s hook
had been maliciously run along
its. length as punishment for
recognising who butters ship-
ping’s bread.
As for freight-rates, overseas
shipowners charge less from
Australia to Europe than
Australian owners can charge
for short inter-State shipments.
And those awnings ! They
are impractical. At Ocean
Falls in Canada rain is almost
non-stop and newsprint is
loaded under cover. The
climate compelled provision
for this in the port’s initial
stages. Our wharves are not
suitable and costs would be
prohibitive if the awnings were
of canvas. They would have
to be as high as ships’ masts,
and high winds would ruin
them.
In any case, would wharfies
work when sheltered from
rain ? In N.Z. I saw a crane-
driver in a totally enclosed
cabin stop grabbing phosphate
in a light shower because union
rules said no work in rain. The
waterfront outlook is similar
here.— Tackline S. (N.S.W.).
The Australian Worker
Of those who praise the Aus-
tralian worker (B. 10/4/’57),
few pause to say where his
strength lies, while of those
who blame him a majority pick
the waterside worker for
special criticism. Yet his
strength is most clearly seen
on the waterfront, and it is on
the waterfront that many of
our visitors gain their first
sight of the worker.
I’ve travelled a good deal
between Asian and Australian
ports and the differences
between the two are illuminat-
ing. Equipment in most of the
main Asian ports is new and
up-to-date. Much of it has
been lately put in to replace
equipment destroyed by war.
Sheds and go-downs are open,
clean and airy; the wharves
are cement with an adequacy
of steel rails and trucks. By
comparison, many of the Aus-
tralian wharves are museum-
pieces, with old tumbledown
wooden sheds, windowless and
under badly rusted iron roofs.
The facilities for doing the job
should put the Asian ahead.
The arrival at an Asian port
is not unlike a Melbourne foot-
ball-match. Dozens of men
hurry to and fro, the noise is
tremendous and dust flies in
clouds. Everywhere there is an
atmosphere of bustle and
furious energy.
Not so in Australia. The
ship ties up and, later, a couple
of gangs board her. There is
no hurry, little noise, no sense
of activity or rush. It is some-
times difficult to decide whether
cargo is going to be worked
that day or not.
Yet on a round trip taking in
Penang, Singapore, Djakarta,
Balikpapan, Sourabaya, and
then all the Australian capitals
except Darwin, I noted that
cargo moved faster in any Aus-
tralian port than in th« fastest
Asian port, and with less men.
In two ports Australians took
the first sling out of a hold
in under half-an-hour. In the
average Asian port, it took
two hours.
The difference was in the
men. The Asian laborer was
energetic and willing to do
everything his physique
allowed. But there it ended —
his energy exceeded his intelli-
gence and his effort was often
misdirected. The apparently
less-vigorous Australian, how-
ever, guided his superior
physique with a higher intelli-
gence and approached his task
calmly and unharried. His
individual, personal effective-
ness was thus enhanced beyond
comparison.—K. L. Wells
(N.S.W).
The Deterrent
The deterrent effect on
Russia of Britain’s new
hydrogen - bomb does not
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 437
Across
I—A1 —A dry stream disturbed a midget teacher who is boss of
the enclosure? (10)
6 —Pass an employee a turn with the bat. (4)
10— Broken rib stud to cause anxiety—l’d burst otherwise. (7)
11— Mississippi backwater gives you a degree. (5)
12 — Cosy turn for ordnance. (4)
13 — Mail one back to Sarah behind the nose. (4-5)
15 —New York or a town in Victoria.
(5)
17—Concerning a fight. (5)
19 — Moslem chieftain upset me
always. (5) (
20 — Two letters from town in
Germany. (5)
21— She sings for part of the hair
of a Chinese detective named
Charlie. (9)
24 —Stupid pence to the rear. (4)
26 — Store supplies sheep and cattle
flower. (5)
27 — U.S. girl on a vehicle before I
name a great student of electrical
currents produced by chemical
agents. (7)
28 — Coward description of a black-
out? (4)
29 Hiding century twice halved a
fish. (10)
Down
1— Minor hand carelessly keeps rais-
ing the ear partners at Chloe’s
address. (5, 3,7)
2 Crimson bar of metal on the
East garment. (9)
3 It's no catch, and she hasn't
made one. (4)
4 Part of a wicket corporation in
turf information. (5)
5 Mission gives them an Arts
graduate’s seasoning. (9)
7 Gulf wherein one goes first by
steamer. (5)
8 — Twin alternative to love a
common wager. (6, 2,7)
9 Deserted a bunch of musicians
with Id. (9)
14 —State writer to take a territorial
division of old Yorkshire. (9)
16—See who runs Sydney’s Phillip-
street Theatre with “The Egg
and I” and an egg-shape painter.
(9)
18: —A great maestro to scrutinise in
one opera backed in twice. (9)
22 Commotion about love. (5)
23 Baba in South Carolina with
regard to the Salian Franks. (5)
25 —So long, and thanks a lot. (2-2)
Solution to Crossword No. 436


Established 1808
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and cial
Institutions throughout Australia
25
:K SON
llJ.ivav
piyitd
JA«
OSMI
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
\ND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“pROTF.CTa” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company of
Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
l'hectors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman ; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White; A. G. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Birector.
’Phone: BW-6361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States .
the world. I walk over and
say my piece, and he changes
like the pages of a book can
change. His eyes flash intelli-
gence, and his voice alters,
brisk and businesslike. He
tells me what to take dpwn
to the galley, and as I walk off
I hear again:
“Yes, this is it, ladies and
gentlemen. Rollo’s Grand Fun
Fair is now in your town . .
A fellow comes out of one
of the tents. He’s wearing a
crinkled pair of pants and an
off-white singlet. 'He says:
“Green bananas? Who sent
you down with those —s?
The fool shoulda . , .
What, him? Aw, well, I
dunno. 0.K., dump the
s there. But what
the he thinks
I’m ...”
When I get back to the truck
the hand of ripe banans I was
using for a show-piece has
disappeared.
Dinner-time comes, and
there seems to be more banans
than ever on the truck. Pluck-
ing and poring over them, I
note, with anxious eyes, that
the sun is not so much ripen-
ing my fruit as blackening it.
I foresee myself three days
hence:
“No, lady, not banans . . .
granadillas. You cook them
and have them cold. They're
beautiful.”
I decided to house-to-house
them. To do it properly, I
drive to the end of town to a
shanty where a dozen nippers
are brawling around. A
thin stooped little man, but
youngish, comes out.
“Yeah, I was out in the sheds
f’r a while, but I'm trappin’
now. Gettin’ me twenty-five a
week clear. Good money, I
s’pose. Aw, well, I’d take half-
a-dozen of them bunches there,
the best you got, but y’see these
kids ’ere the way they are, wild
an’ that, they’d eat ’em,
y’ know, afore they git ripe,
an’ the missus, y’ know, she'd
. .' . Yair, I’d like t’ take ’em,
but the kids, y’ know . . .”
Well, looking back, it was,
you might say, educational.
When I could see after about a
day and a half they were going
to beat me I took a run out
to the abo.-camp on the edge
of the river. Those little black-
’uns sure enjoyed them.
I brought the bees back in
a flying hurry. When you work
for yourself deals of that kind
go down as “Expenses” . . .
I had occasion to drive past
the stall the other day. Stacked
high in golden pyramids were
hundreds of rough-leaf pines.
She of the great, fathomless
eyps looked up as the truck
passed. A light in those eyes
kindled and grew.
Pines into petrol!
I pressed on. I dared not
loojc back.
necessarily depend on Britain
being able to destroy utterly
the Soviet Union in a nuclear
war (B. 8/5/’57).
It must be considered as a
possibility that in such a war
the U.S.A. might remain
neutral. The war could end
with Britain obliterated and
the Soviet more shattered than
it was after the Bolshevik
revolution, and with no hope
of American aid to rebuild its
industries. Not only that, but
America would be in an ideal
position to finish-off the Soviet
without serious risk to itself,
and so inherit the earth.
It seems certain that Russia
believes this to be official U.S.
policy. That is the real risk
they must face if they are
tempted to launch a surprise
attack on Britain, and the
justification for Britain going
ahead with the H-bomb. It
may also explain Communist
fury over the Christmas Island
tests. — Magnoon (Q.).
The Joske Divorce Bill
Tbe Divorce Bill now before
Federal Parliament has several
very contentious provisions, or,
lather, lack of provisions.
In the English divorce-law
of 1937 it was provided that a
divorce should not be applied
for within three years, and that
provision should be included
in any Divorce Act in this
country to try to prevent
“Sign of Tain!”
marriages going on the rocks
in the early stages.
Further, the provisions for
judicial separation, excluded
from the Joske bill, should be
restored. The English Royal
Commission- of 1951 (on
marriage and divorce) con-,
sidered “that this remedy
should be retained to provide
relief... .for those who have
religious or conscientious
objections to divorce.... and
to keep open the door for
subsequent reconciliation.”
Further, it is the opinion of
some well-known legal men in
N.S.W. (including a judge, of
the Supreme, Court) that the
Joske bill, as it stands, requires
that all actions for mainten-
ance between husband and
wife be heard by the Supreme
Court. This would be an
iniquity, as it would mean that
if a wife in Broken Hill, for
instance, sued her husband for
maintenance (now an ordinary
Children’s Court action) it
would be necessary for her to
wait until the Supreme Court
sat at the Hill (once a year) for
her complaint to be heard. This
would cause great hardship by
delay, or else an enormous
increase in the number of
Supreme Court judges.
If we must have divorce,
then by all means let us have
uniform laws in the six States.
But let us also have regard to
the general good and to the
preservation of the marriage-
vows. Otherwise we could
become like some other
countries where divorce is
obtained by the signing of a
document, or on the flimsiest
of grounds.
And a further recommenda-
tion of the English Royal
Commission should be in-
cluded: that even though the
ground b a s been established, a
divorce should not be granted
until the court is satisfied that
the welfare of any uhildren of
the marriage has been provided
for. — Fell Maken (N.S.W.).


UTSAGHTS
A. *
PROor
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LI
rf i o
WIRE NETTING
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
*”
■
: ?*■
Si
n
ESTABLISHED 1384
• BARBED WERE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
IYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg'd Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road,
Five Dock
SPECIFY " LYS A G HT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A PLAQUE FOR THE SUGAR BUREAU
HTHE Sugar Bureau —full title
-* Bureau of Sugar Experi-
ment Stations; address, any
sugar district and Brisbane —
is preening itself a bit. Its
employers, the growers of cane
and the millers, who chip in
The substitution of
pressure dusting for
dipping and spraying
is creating consider-
able interest amongst
New Zealand graziers.
It is claimed that the
process is not only
more economical than
conventional dipping
and spraying but also
more effective. The
New Zealand primary
producer is outstand-
ing for his recogni-
tion of the benefits of
new techniques in
farming and grazing.
The “Elastrator”
Rubber Ring method
of marking and tail-
ing lambs originated
in New Zealand and
is now accepted as
standard practice by
enterprising graziers
throughout the world.
between them threepence or so
per ton of cane as a levy for
the bureau, have seen fit to
donate to the bureau a cast-
bronze plaque to give thanks
for a job well done against the
worst insect-pest the industry
has ever had.
The northern cane-beetle or
“greyback” is a big wog, about
Hin. long and built in pro-
portion, and its grubs or
larvas are also big, with a
corresponding appetite for the
roots of the sugarcane-plants.
In the more friable soils the
grubs can move freely, and,
cutting each root as they come
across it in their burrowings,
can quickly deprive the plant
of all soil-moisture and
-nutrient.
The affected plant stops
growing, the stalks have to
be harvested early before they
deteriorate, and the rooting-
system is so weakened that
ratooning is impossible. This
was the position 8.8.H.C.
i.e., before benzene-hexa-
chloride, the chemical which
has also played an important
part in recent campaigns
against the cattle-tick and other
noxious insects.
Nowadays the farmer
applies 751 b. of 20 per cent.
B.H.C. dust per acre at the
sides of the furrow, just as the
cane is about to cover in, and
forgets about the cane-grub.
A number of bureau scien-
tists had a hand in the wfcite-
grub work. J. H. Buzacott,
now in charge of the cane-
breeding, was responsible for
the initial demonstration treat-
ment of a grubby block of
Badila on Meringa Sugar
Experiment Station late in
1945.
He shrewdly foresaw the
present technique of applica-
tion, and the dose he gave
(1001 b. of 10 per cent, dust per
acre) has since been proved to
be quite satisfactory for one
crop. Subsequently R. W.
Mungomery and G. Wilson
established the commercial
application of the insecticide
against the white grub, and
extended its application to
other less-important grubs of
the same type.
If the canefarmer’s land is
damp and low-lying, particu-
larly in the Mackay district, he
uses B.H.C. again, but as a
B H.C.-fertiliser-mixture, to put
on at planting-time; and the
cursed wireworm, the cause of
many bad strikes, worries him
no more. Dr. W. A. Mc-
Dougall was responsible for
working-out the anti-wireworm
technique.
The conquest of the grey-
back and the wireworm is
matched by the pathologists’
efforts with some of the cane-
diseases. Several have been
eliminated or brought very
close to elimination, while
others have been so brought
under control that they are no
longer causing losses. Gum-
ming, downy-mildew and Fiji-
disease have all been virtually
wiped-out. The bureau is con-
fident that within a year or two
the last of these diseases will
have been seen in the commer-
cial canefields of the State.
These were three really
serious diseases, and at one
time or other either threatened
the existence of the industry in
particular districts, as with
gumming at Bundaberg, or else
forced a rapid and expensive


Insure w.th the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1812.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
IV. ./. HITCHCOCK Virtan**
change of varieties in order
that production could be main-
tained. Gumming - disease is
caused by a bacterium which
not only can destroy cane-
plants in the field, but can also
cause endless trouble in the
mill by the gum it produces.
The last report of gumming
in Queensland was in 1950, and
it is thought-that the disease is
now extinct here: continued
searchings, and the growing of
susceptible varieties in the once-
infected localities, have not
brought any diseased stools to
light.
Downy-mildew is caused by
a fungus which produces tiny
airborne spores. It was thought
to have been wiped-out when
the last diseased stool for the
season was rogued at Bunda-
berg in 1950. However, a small
outbreak occurred last summer,
but pathologists are not down-
hearted similar inexplicable
dying flutters have been made
by diseases before, and the
outbreak does not mean any
widesnread recrudescence of
the disease.
Fiji-disease is spread by the
caneleaf-hopper and prob-
ably on account of this —its
eradication has been more
drawn-out than with gumming
and downy-mildew. A few
stools haye been found in in-
spections at Rocky Point, south
of Brisbane, recently, but it
has not been seen for some
time at other S.Q. centres where
it used to cause severe damage.
Diseases brought under
control so that they should
never cause serious losses again
include ratoon-stunting and
pineapple - diseases. Ratoon-
stunting is due to a virus. Since
its identification in 1949 by
D. R. L. Steindl it has been
found in practically every
cane-producing country. Setts
are made disease-free by heat-
treatment, in Queensland in hot
water at 122 deg. F. for three
hours, in Louisiana, where the
control of the disease is also
well advanced, in hot air at 136
deg. F. for eight hours.
It would be impossible to
heat-treat all cane for planting
(the industry needs about
240,000 tons of setts each year),
so comparatively small amounts
of treated cane are used as
nuclei for the building-up of
clean stocks, which can then
be used for the planting. The
heat-treatment is not a simple
routine ; even a slight rise in
temperature will kill the buds
and thus prevent germination.
Pineapple-disease—so named
because of the characteristic
fruity smell of the attacked
setts—is caused by a soil
fungus which can be found in
every cane-district in Queens-
land. ’ln the past it was particu-
larly bad on the irrigated Lower
Burdekin. The practical control
worked out by the bureau
pathologists included the treat-
ment of setts with a solution
of an organic mercurial fungi-
cide.
Setts may be put into baskets
or bags and then dipped before
dropping through the planter,
but most fafmers have now
fitted sprays within the chute of
their cutter-planters, and the
newly-cut sett gets a covering
pf solution as it slips down
into the furrow. It is an
insurance against costly poor
strikes, and, provided the soil
is in reasonably good tilth,
planting can be done in cool
or dry weather, when normally
the farmer would expect a
failure.
C. G. Hughes.
Feeding-out Silage
“Sevenelms”: A novice at
the pastime, I’ve just fed-out
two stacks of silage. One was
a bun, the other a wedge, and
they were 40 tons each.
For a solo-operator the
wedge, in the making, had an
apparent advantage: five or six
buckrake-fills could be landed
without interruption and then
forked-out edgeward, whereas
the bun called for forking every
two loads or there was trouble.
Each stack got plenty of con-
scientious rolling, but sustained
effort to consolidate the sides
of the wedge kept squeezing
them out.
Feeding-out showed, in the
bun, sin. of waste-cover, 25
per cent, dark-brown, and 75
per cent, yellow, top-grade
silage ; in the wedge, 75 per
.cent, dark-brown, 25 per cent,
yellow, and the top-waste was
7in. at the centre to full depth
at all sides.
This waste, except for the
strata of charred black, was
fed-out and consumed as
roughage. But the labor of
shifting it was heavy, and it
was a temptation to wait for
a good north wind and burn-
off this obstinate thatch.
I’ve read and heard recom-
mendations to let the cows get
the silage themselves, using an
electric-fence. All right in dry
weather, perhaps, but if there’s
been any rain the miring and
wastage from this method is
unreasonable. I’m sceptical,
too, about advice to buckrake
in the direction of mowing.
Except on a very gentle slope,
downhill is preferable to the
smallest wheel-slip and dig-in
that can be caused by going
uphill.
Westralian Cattle-lift
‘ Pastoral”: Anna Plains
station covers the best part of
a million acres of cattle-
country in the north-west of
W.A. It lies 130 miles south of
Broome, adjoining the Eighty-
mile Beach. Cattle do very
well there, and the seasons
are generally good. The diffi-
culty in the past has been to
get the cattle to a market in
good condition, and at a time
when demand is good.
In August, 1954, 600 Anna
Plains bullocks were sold to
buyers from the Philippines.
The cattle walked straight off
the station on to the ship—an
LST landing-craft, the Wan
Kuo. An enterprising idea
which, despite some initial
difficulties, proved a success,
and opened up the possibility
of a new market.
Since then, the station has
changed hands, and is now
owned bv G. W. Pearce,
formerly of Alice Springs, who
took it over from the Macansh
Estates, of Brisbane.
As soon as the new owner
took-over, a sale of 3000 steers
and bullocks was arranged to
Norman Napier, of Armadale,
R. E. Treasure, of Cannington,
and B. A. Panizza, of Mt.
Vernon station, Meekatharra,
who had already worked out
a scheme for the disposal of the
cattle. Their idea was to bring
the cattle down to Perth and
sell them at the metropolitan
saleyards at Midland Junction,
at the time when they would
meet the greatest demand.
They planned to shift about
three times the usual draft of
cattle, and to save the loss and
wastage usual when they had
been shipped to Perth ’ from
Port Hedland after a seven-
weeks’ drove, or had travelled
a 16 weeks’ rough trip to
Meekatharra before finishing
the last 600 miles by rail.
By engaging the road-trans-
port teams of H. and R. Bell
and Billy Brown (aged 19, but
a veteran of road-transport)
they planned to take the cattle
from Port Hedland to Meeka-
tharra by road. The arrange-
ments took a lot of organising,
but worked without a hitch.
The cattle were mustered,
500 at a time, fortnightly, and
brought to the Government
dip at Wallal, 45 miles from the
southern boundary of the
station. No small job, muster-
ing cattle over one-million un-
fenced acres, and delivering
them on a definite date.
From the dip the cattle were
driven 120 miles to a loading-
point at Port Hedland, where
they started the road-train
journey of 620 miles to Meeka-
tharra. The drovers loaded
their horses and outfit on to
trucks and went back to Anna
Plains for more. At Roy Hill
the cattle were rested and fed,
and then completed the last
half of the journey to Meeka-
tharra, where special trains
awaited them for the final 600-
mile stage to Perth.
All the different stages of
the operation had to be done
to time, and mechanical break-
downs, or poor organisation in
the initial stages, could have
ruined the whole enterprise.
The four road-trains travelled
19,000 miles as a unit without
any trouble and were always
on time, and of the 3000 head
of cattle transported only 14
were lost.
After a fortnight’s spell in
holding-paddocks at Midland
Junction, the cattle were offered
for sale. Many of them were
suitable for the trade, and the
balance sold as forward stores
to graziers in the south-west of
the State. They did remarkably
well under the changed con-
ditions, and many of those who
bought at the early sales came
back later for more.
This year the buyers of the
Anna Plains cattle have im-
proved their overlanding plans.
Instead of the cattle travelling
from Anna Plains to Port
Hedland on the hoof, they will
be loaded on to the road-
trains at the Wallal dip and go


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
I
m
M
Establi died ISOS in Reign o)
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England)
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring: Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
40S Collins Street, Melbourne
the whole 700 miles to Meeka-
tharra by road.
At time of writing, the cattle
are on their way, and the first
lots will be on sale at Midland
Junction this month (June).
About 2000 head will be
handled this season ; they are
reoorted to be in excellent con-
dition.
Foul-brood
“B-herd”: American foul-
brood, an imported disease
which really throws a scare
into all beekeepers, has flared
up again in Victoria, and
another isolated case has been
reported to the Queensland
Department of Agriculture
from the Texas (Q.) area.
The “A.8.K.” reports the
burning of 218 colonies in
Gippsiand (Vic.) and 100 in
other parts of the State. These
burnings of large numbers
of colonies, occurring too
regular 1 y in each State,
indicate that there is no real
control of the disease any-
where in the land.
In many cases —if not all —
it is the plodding herder who
harbors the disease. He knows
his hives are dying-out, that
they never reach gathering-
strength because there’s “some-
thing up with them,” but this
kind of man rarely seeks
assistance.
His behavior is in direct
contrast to the efficient man,
who, working his bees regu-
larly, notes the sickening of
the brood, and, even if he is
unfamiliar with the foul-brood
symptoms (which is decidedly
unlikely), knows he must find
a remedy. The plodder seems
to think that asking help is a
reflection on his beekeeping
and he blunders on.
In the Bundarra outbreak
some years ago one man,
working out his own cure, was
taking infected brood-combs
from the sick colonies and
giving them to healthy ones to
“clean up the brood.” The
department burned the entire
apiary. In the recent suspected
case in the Texas area a
nomadic apiarist left three hives
behind in the care of an
Inverell (N.S.W.) man who had
bees near by. The caretaker,
cleaning-out his own yard at
extracting - time, took his
smoker over to the three. He
pulled off the lids and found
them to be rotten with disease.
How this man, who has
made a good living at the game
for 20-odd years, felt when he
replaced the lids has not yet
been recorded. In the main,
that’s how the infected apiaries
have been located.
To establish and run an
apiary big enough to return a
decent living at present-day
prices the beginner needs some
thousands of £’s: With A.F.B.
flaring -up intermittently in
every State, he quickly realises
the only protection is self-help.
The don’t - care beeherder,
jumping borders and leaving
living and dead hives scattered
like bones bejiind him, throw-
ing off his load in the next-
door paddock or on the road-
side, doesn’t make things any
easier.
Wheat Tax
“Division”: The farthing-a-
bushel tax on wheat, to operate
on the 1956-57 crop, should
go a long way towards
keeping the Australian wheat-
grower abreast of the latest
research in his main crop.
The tax represents about
fl for every 1000 bushels. On
the current crop alone, more
than £lOO,OOO will be available
for research.
Primary Industry Minister
McMahon, in the House of
Representatives the other
day:
Many changes influencing produc-
tion methods and the distribution of
the wheat-industry are under way in
Australia. It is only by the establish-
ment of a broadly-based research-
programme that we can maintain
our position in this fiercely competi-
tive industry, and provide Australia's
wheatgrowers with the know-how
to protect their competitive position
against producers in overseas
countries.
The bill is the outcome of
negotiations between growers’
organisations, the States and
the Commonwealth, and its
proposals have the approval
of all these parties.
The farthing-a-bushel tax will
be administered by collection
from the Australian Wheat
Board, and the effect will be
that growers will receive the
first advance, less the tax. A
committee in each mainland
State will- allocate the tax-
funds to research; the State
having the most tax will get the
biggest research-grant.
A Wheat Industry Research
Council consisting of one
Commonwealth representative,
two wheatgrowers’ representa-
tives, five State representatives,
and one each from the univer-
sities and the C.5.1.R.0., will
co-ordinate research.
There will be room for
reciprocity, so that a State
benefiting from research being
undertaken in another State
can share part of the cost. And
the Commonwealth Council
will be able to improve the
efficency of the research-
scheme generally by passing on
information about desirable
lines of research in different
places.
The Commonwealth Council
will also recommend the alloca-
tion of special Commonwealth
funds to fill gaps in State
programmes, and for special
research not being undertaken
elsewhere.
Recent experiences in over-
seas markets indicate clearly
that Australia has prospects of
selling much more wheat if we
can produce a higher quality
than the present FAQ. There
is little doubt that our market-
outlook would be greatly im-
proved if we were producing
more hard or medium-hard
high-quality wheat.
There are some regions in
Australia where these classes
of wheat can be readily grown,
but there are other regions
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(23/5/'57)
Go'ed rains are indicated in the southern half of Queens-
land during June and July, but, apart trom tair rain m
September, rainfall should be patchy, during spring.
Reasonably good general rains are indicated in N.S.W.
during June, although the central coast and southern table-
lands may get only light to moderate rain. General rains
are likely in July, with the heaviest falls on the coast and in
the north of the State. Again, rainfall should be patchy
during spring.
Victoria should get general rains, mainly below average,
during June, although good falls are likely in part of the
north-east and western division. Similar rains are likely
in July, with fairly heavy falls during August and September.
General rains, mainly below average, in South Aus-
tralia during June, but light rain only in the Murray Valley
and interior. Much the same in July, with good rains during
spring.
The agricultural areas of Western Australia shou’d get
general rains in June, heaviest on the south coast. The De
Grey, Gascoyne and goldfields areas should get good rains;
poor elsewhere. General rains of a similar nature should
occur in the agricultural areas during July.
LENNOX WALKER.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside- the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


Missing Beneficiary
ESTATE OF LUCY RICHARDS, FOR-
MEKLY OF WELLINGTON, LATE OF
TAYLORYILLE, S IMNS TE R, DE-
CEASE 1).
WOULD any person claiming either
direct or remote relationship to the.
ahovenamed deceased through either the
RICHARDS or MORRIS branch of the
iamilies (more particularly through
SARAH MIDDLETON, nee RICHARDS,
who lived on the West Coast, South
Island, New Zealand, about 70 years
ago, or through ISABELLA STEVENS
or STEPHENS, nee MORRIS, believed
to be in Australia), please communicate
with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, GREYMOUTII, NEW ZEA-
LAND.
hum ©NiHsnaa in 6 isnr
Colgate
Dental
Cream
»»o*
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
:
m
| WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST 1
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever for almost 2 out of 3 people.
mV
m
■
Keeps children’s teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate way
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream is Australia’s largest
Aaerica’s largest the world's largest selling dental creas*
Get the Family Fconouv Size and save up to 1/10.
L.
where more research is neces-
sary.
Field-experiments, studies of
rotational systems, fertilising
techniques, varietal trials,
fundamental plant - breeding
experiments, wi 11 all be
necessary. There is also the
need to increase our knowledge
of quality in wheat in an age
where baking techniques have
changed and are still changing.
Other problems which must be
examined are practical
commercial techniques of test-
ing wheat-quality, and the
problem of increasing
mechanisation, including
cultivation, harvesting and
bulk-handling.
Footrot Act
“Crow” : Victoria’s recently-
proclaimed Footrot Act is so
successful that affected sheep
are being taken over the border
into South Australia, where
there are no restrictions on
their sale in public saleyards.
The same thing could be
happening in the Rivefina.
The main reason for these
restrictions is to make sure that
footrotty sheep will not infect
healthy flocks. They can be
sold direct for slaughter, taken
home and treated or sold to a
man who guarantees to keep
them separate from healthy
sheep. As fat sheep are usually
slaughtered straight away, the
main blitz has been against
stores. Other States could use
this Act with advantage.
Poaches for the
Mallee?
“Pinnaroo”: The loss of
thousands of acres of peach-
trees because of waterlogging
in Victoria’s Goulburn Valley
has brought suggestions that
canning-peaches might be
grown in the Mallee area —
perhaps in the Murrayville
district, near' the Victoria-
South Australia border, where
bore-irrigation is arousing a lot
of interest.
The climate seems 0.K., the
water is there, but there is a
big doubt about the soil. A. J.
of the Vic. Department
of Agriculture, reports that
most soils in these parts are
too limey and alkaline for
peaches. The crop is susceptible
to lime-induced chlorosis. But
some soils might be suitable.
Orchard-supervisors are the
men to give advice on this
point.
The other problem is market-
ing. Canneries are unlikely to
move their equipment unless
there is *a big likelihood of
plenty of peaches to process ;
and the markets are 100 miles
further away than they are
from the Goulburn Valley.
Too Much, Too Bad
“Catfield”: Overzealous appli-
cation of molybdenum can do
more harm than good to fruit-
trees and stock, especially
where soils are liable to be
deficient in copper. Though as
little as 2oz. of molybdenum
per acre can increase carrying-
capacity greatly on certain
types of soil (such as in Vic-
toria’s central highlands and
Upper Goulburn) higher doses
can cause copper-deficiency.
This has been found already
in sheep. Molybdenum-induced
copper-deficiency has also been
found in South Australian fruit-
trees. In Victoria it has been
found that 2oz. of molybdenum
to the acre is enough to last for
a long while. South Aus-
tralian orchardists have been
advised that Loz. of molyb-
denum every five years is suffi-
cient.
Welcome Strangers
“Mattryan”: While sub.-
clover is probably the best
plant that has come to Aus-
tralia by mistake, Mediter-
rane3n-grass and buffel-grass,
which entered in Afghan feed-
bags and camel-harness, have
also done good to their adopted
country.
Although Mediterranean -
grass does not give very much
feed, it colonises quickly and
covers sand which would blow
if it did not have the protec-
tion. Some people call this
species “camel-grass.”
BufFel-grass, which origin-
ated in a low-rainfall area of
northern India, is now a
valuable fodder species in
north-west Queensland and
western N.S.W. More and
more graziers are wanting seed
of it. In 1930 C.S.l.R.O.“intro-
duced a strain from South
Africa which was better than
the Indian strain for the less-
arid areas.
Erosion Warning
“Karoonda”: Although very
little erosion has been seen in
the Mallee during the last 10
years, there is still a great
potential danger. A recent
South Australian survey
revealed that despite a great
reduction in the amount of
eroded land rpany acres were
still drifting and some sand-
dunes were up to 30ft. high.
The big increase-in im-
proved-pastures will reduce the
danger greatly, hut heavy stock-
ing in the Mallee could cause
trouble, especially in a dry
season. Fortunately many
farmers have conserved enough
hay to keep their stock over a
dry period, but every cafe is
necessary in maintaining an
adequate vegetative cover.
Sandhills which are not
cropped can be sown to
lucerne. Those which are sown
to cereals should get 1201 b. per
acre of jsuper. and ammonia.
1:1, fertiliser to ensure a good
growth.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Great regret was expressed by guests
at tiie Government House reception that
tiie Governor-General (Field-Marshal
Sir William Slim) was ill in hospital and
unable to be present. Lieut.rGovernor
Sir Edmund Herring was, however, off
the sick-list and able to receive guests
with Lady Slim and Lady Herring.
Lady Slim chose a full-skirted frock of
Chartreuse silk-shantung. The skirt flared
oat from a tight-fitting bodice which had
bracelet-length sleeves and a deep-
V neckline and at one side was a diamond
clasp catching a bow of the material.
Lady Herring’s frock was of black
delustred satin. The skirt was full and
the bodice folded and caught with one
large white rose.
With Sir Edmund and Lady Herring
was their daughter Margaret. Her
ballerina frock was of deep emerald-green
silk-shantung. Another daughter, Mrs.
Nicholas Turnbull, was at the reception
with her husband ; she chose a frock of
deep aqua-blue silk, featuring a white
berry pattern. White berries also trimmed
her blue straw hat.
With the House sitting, the Premier,
was unable to be present, but Mrs. Bolte
was there, wearing an iridescent green-
taffeta frock and matching sunray
pleated coat. Mrs. Neville Payne was
with her husband and looked attractive
in an all-black ensemble. Other guests
included Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R. S.
Wellby, Group-Capt. and Mrs. P. R.
Beare (he is with the U.K. liaison staff),
Mr. and Mrs. Guy Bakewell, Mr. and
Mrs. Walter Carnegie and Mr. and Mrs.
L. R. Buxton. Mrs. Buxton looked smart
in a frock of taupe street-velvet. Black-
bobble braid was appliqued to form deep
points around the full skirt. Her side-
ways-draped black-jersey beret was
scattered with dull-gold sequins.
■to ☆ ☆
U.S. Consul-General Gerald Warner
and Mrs. Warner have issued invitations
to a reception on June 12 in honor of
newly - appointed U.S. Ambassador
William J. Sebald and Mrs. Sebald. Mr.
and Mrs. Sebald will attend the
Independence Day Ball to be held at St.
Kilda Palais on July 6. In aid of the
Royal Children’s Hospital, it is being
organised by the American Women's
Auxiliary to the hospital.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mrs. James Alston, president of the
Robin Hood committee, presented a
cheque for £l3OO (the proceeds of
functions held over the past year) to
Mr. Frank Byrne, president of the Help-
ing Hand Association, at a cocktail-party
in the graduates’ dining-room at the
university. The committee works for
the association, which helps mentally;
retarded children. The 100 guests were
received by Mr. and Mrs. Alston, joint-
secretaries Miss E. Mcßeath and Miss M.
Lincoln, Mrs. R. Park and the Misses
P. Connor and Francine Abry. The
guest-speaker was Dr. Cunningham Dax.
There was also a parade of evening-gowns
by Australian designer Victor Flaffendon.
Patricia Noel, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Cooper, of Hawthorn,
has announced her engagement to Roger,
younger son of Colonel and Mrs. A. F.
Hopkins, of East Doncaster. Educated
at Genazzano and Invergowrie, Patricia
is now with the E., S. and A. Bank.
Roger graduated in engineering at Mel-
bourne University, and is now in New
South Wales working on the St. Mary’s
project. Patricia was to have left for
America in June for a holiday, but the
trip is now off, as plans have been made
for an August wedding at Newman
College Chapel. After the honeymoon,
Roger and Patricia will make a home in
Sydney.
Bowls of multicolored stocks and
gladioli mixed with red berries and
foliage decorated the reception-rooms of
the East St. Kilda home of Air-Vice-
Marshal and Mrs. Douglas Candy when
they entertained 60 guests at a cocktail-
party. Assisting the host and hostess
were their daughter Adrienne and her
friend Lynne Murdoch, daughter of
Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs. Alastair
Murdoch. ' Mrs. Candy wore a slim-
fitting frock of taupe velvet, with a
swathe of the material draped to one
side.
Among the guests were Rear-Admiral
R. S. Well by (Chief of the U.K. liaison
staff) and Mrs. Wellby, she wearing a
black silk sheath-frock; Mrs. Alastair
Murdoch (whose husband is in Wash-
ington on official business) chose a
wool - satin sheath - frock in glowing
peacock-green; Group-Captain P. R.
Beare (U.K. liaison staff) and Mrs.
Beare ; the Indonesian Military Attache
(Colonel Roekmito) and Mrs. Roekmito
Air-Vice-Marshal A. Charlesworth and
his wife (her black frock worn with a
peacock - green feather - cap); Group-
Captain W. N. Gibson and Mrs. Gibson ;
the Philippines Armed Forces
(Col. Ernesto del Castillo) and his wife ;
the Netherlands Naval Attache (Captain
F. G. H. van Straaten) and his wife ;
Colonel John Hussey (U.S. Air Force
Attache) and Mrs. Hussey; Lieut.-
Colonel Collas Harris (U.S. Assistant Air
Force Attache) and Mrs. Harris ; Major
L. Donnelly (U.S. Assistant Air Force
Attache) and Mrs. Donnelly ; Mr. and
Mrs. Ernest Heymanson, and U.S. Consul
W. Bushwaller and Mrs. Bushwaller.
☆ ☆ Sr
Shirley Bell, illustrator of the Aus-
tralian Bird Book, which won Red Page
plaudits, followed up with 40 pictures at
Brummel’s Gallery, South Yarra. She
did landscape and black-and-white in
England, but never birds till an artist
was wanted for her husband’s book. Near
Melbourne the Bells settled for 10 years
after the war on a few acres that had long
been scheduled as a bird-sanctuary. An
artist’s essential loneliness was Dr. A.
Fabinyi’s theme when he opened the
show, but it didn’t look like it—the
newsreel and television men rolled-up,
and a quarter of the paintings got the
small red light in the first hour.
CANBERRA
There were 400 guests in the main
reception-room of the Hotel Canberra
at a champagne buffet-dinner party given
by the High Commissioner for South
Africa and Mrs. J. K. Uys to celebrate
Union Day. The guests were received
by the host and hostess and the South
African first-secretary Mr. D. P. Oliver
and his wife. Lord and Lady Carrington
were among the many diplomats ; also
Madame Hess, wife of the German
Ambassador, elegant in a black slim-
skirted frock, with her husband; the
D. M. Cornetts, of the Canadian High
Commission, she wearing a small black
toque with her emerald-green frock ; the
Indonesian Ambassador, Dr. Helmi, and
Madame Helmi; and Mr. and Mrs. B. A.
Übani.
The occasion was also a farewell for
Mr. Uys, who leaves Australia shortly to
become South African Ambassador to
West Germany.
Cold winter wind didn’t chill the en-
thusiasm of those who enjoyed the two
days’ polo at Springfield, the property of
Mr. A. I. Maple-Brown, president of
Goulburn Polo and Picnic Race Club.
Snow-boots, duffel-coats and colorful
scarves were the choice of lady spectators.
Mrs. G. Dowling (her husband played for
Toompang) wore an emerald-green
wimple in wool-jersey with her beige coat;
also noted Mrs. George Osborne’s
leopard-cuffed snow-boots and cherry-
red woollen cap; Mrs. John Boyde ; Mr.


and Mrs. A. K: Cuthbertson, of Gout-
burn, with Sydney visitors Mr. and Mrs.
K. C. Burns. Mrs. Maple-Brown, snr.,
saw her grandson, Jim, captain the win-
ning team, Goulburn “A,” and receive the
Ashton Cup brimful of champagne.
Among players and guests who went on
to the barbecue and dance at Springfield
woolshed were captain of County team
Mr. Hector King ; Mr. Michael Osborne ;
Mr. and Mrs. Roly Brown, of Young ;
and Mr. Fergus-Isaac.
Dame Enid Lyons, in Canberra for a
conference of the A.8.C., of which she
is a member, attended a small reception
given to mark the opening of the com-
mission’s new studios at Civic Centre.
The P.M.G., Mr. Davidson, was in
Queensland, but performed the opening
in a recorded address. Pearl-grey and
sunshine-yellow, colors used to decorate
the studios, blended well with lovely
plants of red poinsettias in the foyer.
Sir Richard Boyer, A.B.C. chairman, and
general-manager Charles Moses also
attended the reception.
SYDNEY
Balletmania still has the city in thrall.
Every day the classified ads. have carried
“Tickets wanted. Good Price,” and it was
reported that as much as £7 per ticket
was offered. The Queensland Ballet
sponsored a special plane-trip costing
£3OOO to bring 52 northern balletomanes
to Sydney over the weekend, and the
highlight of the week was the special
free matinee that. Dame Margot Fonteyn
arranged for 1700 crippled children,
spastics and pupils of ballet-schools.
Michael Somes continued his crusade for
establishing ballet as a manly enterprise,
and backed up his belief with the evidence
that his sergeant-major during the war
was very interested and tried some of the
exercises! This should carry some weight
with the sceptics.
ir ☆
Another personality of the week has
been singer Leontyne Price. The fifth
colored musical artist of outstanding
ability that the A.B.C. ha-s brought to
Australia since the war, she was the star
of the first concert ever to be televised
from the Sydney Town Hall. Handsome
and with a beautiful figure, Miss Price
has worn some very lovely dresses for
her recitals, the most striking being a
Dior model of pale-green chiton draped
to a corsage of roses on the bodice and
falling to a train at the back. Nearly all
who have heard her have commented
on how striking she would be as Aida,
a role which she will play at the Vienna
State Opera House in April, but Miss
Price says mischievously that she would
like to play Desdemona in “Otello” “and
get everybody thoroughly mixed-up.”
V V V
Mrs. H. G. Ringland, who presided
at the annual meeting of the Braille
Writers’ Association of N.S.W., said a
record number of books (750) had been
transcribed by members during the year,
including 62 volumes transcribed by long-
term prisoners at Parramatta jail, where
special attention is given to textbooks
for blind University students and school-
children. Present at the meeting was
Diana Morgan, who, though blind, has
graduated Bachelor of Arts from Sydney
University at the age of 19, a remarkable
feat which would have been impossible
but for textbooks in Braille.
U -it~ *
Everyone knows that jersey is the
fabric for 1957, but cotton-jersey that
drapes well, can be washed and doesn’t
stretch or snag is definitely news. The
new fabric is Janilaine Jersey, which made
its Sydney debut at David Jones’ during
the week, in dresses, suits and sportswear.
It has been “disciplined” by Tennyson,
press people were told at a special show-
ing. It certainly seems to behave very
well.
V v
Social events of the week included the
preview of the film “Designing Women”
in aid of the Royal Prince Alfred appeal,
and the dinner-dance at Romano’s in aid
of the Black and White Ball. Both events
were very well-dressed, occasions for the
spectacular dress from every wardrobe,
but as this spectacular dress has cost a
great deal and can be worn only on these
occasions the result is that it is seen
(and described) again and again. So let
it pass this once. It was interesting to
hear of the beautiful motif for the decor
at the Black and White this year— ■
Australian birds.
Laurelle Chaffer, daughter of the
Arthur Chaffers, of Roseville, who has
announced her engagement to Malcolm
Pittaway, son of Lieut.-Commander and
Mrs. Harry Pittaway, of Roseville, is
wearing a lovely solitaire diamond-ring.
Laurelle is a student at the Sydney
Kindergarten Training College and hopes
to graduate at the end of the year. Her
fiance, who is Bachelor of Engineering
from Sydney University of Technology,
came to Sydney for the celebrations and
has now returned to Tatura (Vic.), where
he is at present stationed . Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
Quote of the week comes from
Tallulah Bankhead: “The only thing I
regret about my past is its length.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Literary - luncheons will probably
become some of Sydney’s most pleasant
functions in the near future, the newest
to be organised being those in aid of the
Society for Crippled Children at the Royal
Empire Society’s rooms. The speaker at
the first of these luncheons will be English
actor Paul Rogers ; his subject, “Restora-
tion Theatre” ; the time and date, 12.30
to 2 p.m. on Tuesday, June 11. The
committee arranging things consists of
Mrs. Dundas Allen, Mrs. Roger Dunlop,
Mrs. Berthe lrom, Professor A. G.
Mitchell, Mr. Harry Seidler and Mr.
John Dangerfield.
# J* V
The decor at the Mater Hospital Ball
(Trocadero, June 12) is to be “electrify-
ing,” according to the president of the
ball-committee, Mrs. Tom Bateman.
The exact nature of the arrangements are
a deep secret at the moment, but the
fact that the designers are architects
Harry Seidler and G. J. Dusseldorp
seems to guarantee something really
extra-special.
# V #
Another beautiful ball coming up soon
will be the Red Cross “Miss Teahouse
of the August Moon” Ball at the Troca-
dero on July 1. The decor, being done by
Qantas, will transform the foyer into a
Japanese cherry-blossom garden. Sir
Kenneth Street and Lady Street will be
guests-of-honor and Sir Kenneth will
crown the winner of the “Miss Teahouse”
contest, who will be announced on the
night. The ball, of course, is in aid of
the Red Cross.
# -u v
An interesting event of the week was
the opening of Tennessee Williams’s
“Camino Real” at the Independent.
Everything happens in this play ; actors
chase one another up and down the aisles,
escape through the exits and return from
behind the stage, guns go off and charac-
ters from history wander in and out.
Olive Walter, as the gipsy, is great fun
(remember her as the mother in “Sailor
Beware”?), and it is all quite exciting,
though the cockatoo, which is distinctly
proclaimed to “sing only at davyn,” spent
most of its time backstage squawking
until transported to a place unknown.
V V V
A silver tea-service and a silver
champagne-bucket were presented to Mrs.
C. T. Lorenz by the Council of the
National Opera of Australia at the after-
noon-tea given in her honor at Prince’s
during the week. Mr. Roland Foster
spoke in appreciation of the work Mrs.
Lorenz had done for opera in Australia,
and Matron McGee made the presentation
on behalf of the council.


Butterbly
By JACK LUSBY
OVER the midday grub,
table-graduates had to
reach for things. There
wasn’t much chance of
asking.
The long bloke under the
talkie-drug was cud-chewing his
past and leaning on me and the
others in turn and staring un-
blinkingly at us and through
us, and so far he’d only reached
being kicked out of school and
bush-rouseabouting.
From silence to sound. Like
weak men under anesthetic
bend-beds, here was a pre-
viously songless bird busting
eardrums. He must have been
peculiarly affected by the talk-
dope, and all hands were wait-
ing enthusiastically for the
dope to wear off.
A young Sister Ted button-
holed for a dissertation on one
or two of his earlier experiences
with the fair sex fled blushing
to her office ; there collapsed in
a chair giggling,
“Hey,” Ted droned on,
thumping with deathknell
rhythm on her door. “There
wasn’t anything funny about
it!”
At about this stage his word-
rate was slowing down, while
his manner gained in intensity.
You felt he was really coming
to the meat of the matter.
Having to camp in the next
bed, the second-last on the
veranda, I knew that after
evening kai I was in for some
special treatment.
It was a hot night, but rain-
ing in buckets, and some of it
was blowing in the veranda.
We broke-up a card-game early
and turned in. I had a book
and some smokes laid out and
was listening to the rain.
you in New Guinea,
mate?” he said.
“Not then. Had a bit of a
look at it since.”
“Never ran into the Japs?”
“No, Ted. Didn’t see the
Jap part of it.”
“Anything left showing of
the business when you went
up?”
“Not much. Saw some bits
of planes and old bomb-holes,
all grassed-over. Some wrecked
ships and barges here and there
along the coast”-
“All grassed-over, eh? I
was bloody near grassed-over
once myself. Saved by a
butterfly. . .”
I didn't interrupt him any
more. He was a jungle-fighter
stalking, and being stalked by
jungle-fighters. And his deep-
set eyes saw every detail still
with camera-clearness.
TTE was a sergeant with one
companion on the ninth
day of a patrol. It was this
ninth day that he dealt with
inch by inch as he crawled
and froze and sweated in the
kunai.
As far back as the second
day the rest of the patrol had
• copped it in a sudden stunning
crackle of fire from concealing
grass and the crash of grenades.
Since then Ted and his mate
had moved like snakes within
yards of searching Japanese.
They were moving with a
purpose—slowly out across the
grassed floor of the valley,
heading back to their mob.
There was no food.
Now, on the ninth day, both
were in bad shape, Ted’s
cobber crippled with dysentery.
Early in the morning, moving
along parallel to a path, they’d
spotted a party of sixteen
Nips approaching, and had
discussed ambushing them with
the Owen-guns. There’d be
food, and they reckoned they
could get away with it.
"pERHAPS by this time
desperation was beating
caution. They picked their
positions and waited, guns
ready, still as rocks in the
bordering grass. They could
smell the Japs, could hear them
talking and laughing. Laugh-
ing!
Ted and his mate had picked
their possies well, and the little
men had also filed into perfect
position when one of them
suddenly called to somebody
back along the path.
An answering shout made
the two Aussies freeze where
they crouched. The sixteen
padded past. Behind them
followed a mob of 250. Whew!
That nearly fixed things!
Full caution returned. The
Australians waited a long
time, then moved on.
Dysentery and hunger-
cramps had Ted's mate bent
like an old man. He was in
great pain. Ted was faring a
little better.
From one side came the
gurgle of a stream and they
made their way towards it, had
a drink. The sick man
swallowed a few drops of
iodine in the water. He’d been
doing this a couple of times
a day. Ted said it seemed to
ease''the dysentery.
Ahead, the stream ran
between two rounded grassy
knolls. The top of the nearest
looked a good place for a look-
around and they worked
towards it, keeping down the
stream. They moved carefully
in the stream itself to leave no
tracks, as the ground was
clearing beside it. Fresh Jap
tracks approached and left the
stream at a couple of places.
/JETTING very close, Ted
left the stream for the
shelter of kunai from where he
could study both knolls. They
were pretty close tggether and
within easy Owen-gun range.
On top of the nearest a Jap
raised his head and turned it
slowly, studying the ground
yard by yard. Then he drew
his head down from sight like
a periscope.
He had a fellow-periscope on
the opposite knoll. This head
also rose, turned almost in a
full circle, and sank back into
the grass. The heads continued
to pop up, look around and
disappear at regular, timed
intervals.
Once the Jap on the opposite
knoll seemed to stare for a time
down at the grass concealing
the Australians. This time,
immediately the heads dis-
appeared, Ted and his cobber
shifted quickly and lay in a
slight depression.
A machine-gun shaved the
slope with a barber's care.
Bullets crackled and sang in the
grass. Silence again. Again a
shift of position, getting round
the back of the knoll. The
stream was too well watched.
The sick man had to rest.
They sat back-to-back, Ted
facing up the slope. There
wasn’t very good cover, but
they were behind a small bush,
not as high as a man, which
was a fair shield from above ;
camouflage if absolute stillness
was observed. Ted could see
through it up the slope. The
sun slanted through the leaves,
patterning him with shadow.
A FTER a few minutes a Jap
came into Ted’s view,
walking down towards him.
“One coming,” he whispered,
and waited, Owen-gun ready;
but if he were forced to shoot
this one it was curtains. Too
many of ’em around.
About 20 yards short the
Jap stopped and squatted for
a natural purpose, still facing
the bush. Ted almost stopped
breathing and prayed his mud-
spattered jungle-greens would
merge with the shrub in front
of him.
The leaves now seemed
pretty sparse. Through them
he could read the expression
on the Jap’s face.
Suddenly he didn’t like the
expression at all. It became
fixed on the bush. The Jap’s
hand went to the gun lying
t beside him, and rested there.
Ted could see him thinking.
The Jap himself was not in
a good position if what might
be behind the bush was there.
But he’d shoot madly into the
bush if he felt certain. Or
scream to his mob.
The Jap raised his tommy-
gun slowly and levelled it. But
there was still a flicker of
indecision on his face.
Ted’s own finger was tensed
to send bullets ripping into the
Jap. Bullets that would bring
death or worse to the Aus-
tralians.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX (Vice-Chairman),
ORWELL PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL,
A. MURRAY JONES.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager,
In short, the price of food,
politics, and the chances of
sport—the three topics of
perennial and eternal interest
in mankind since wandering
food-gatherer| settled down
into tribal communities, and
evolved the same bedevilled
system of bylaws, polemics,
and social taboos under which
we exist today. Stroll into any
Sydney pub and you’ll hear
the buzz of talk at Tri-
malchio’s dinner-tables.
And this is the only endur-
ing substance of novels, the
common life of the people
played out in variations on a
set theme, and in the lucid
idiom of spoken words.
Modernity in art is not, as the
products of the studio-world
intelligentsia assume, 3 revolt
from established tradition, but
the recapitulation of its eternal
verities, for those are the
verities of life itself, which
never alter the pattern of
human behavior in any period
or in any group of peoples . . .
The novel, in the state of its
present text, ends abruptly.
It has come down to us in a
very fragmentary state, the
only complete section of the
narrative being the feast of
Trimalchio.
The other fragments have
been pieced together in a
fairly effective sequence, but
they leave gaps only to be
filled-in by inference. There
have been various seventeenth-
century translations claiming
to be a completed text of the
novel, in so far as they make
it a continuous narrative,
which later Latinists denounce
as forgeries. I am no Latinist,
nor am I a purist or a perfec-
tionist in academic stylisms.
That sort of thing belongs to
the preciousness of second-rate
art. The spirit of a work comes
firs£, and if a few trifling
forgeries in an MS. are in key
with the spirit of a work, they
enhance the entertainment
value.
I first read the Satyricon in
a Bohn edition, translated
from the text of an earlier
edition containing the alleged
forgeries, and I found it
excellent. It was from that
edition I drew the subject-
matter of the illustrations to
the edition published by Ralph
Straus and edited by Stephen
Gaselee in London in the year
1910.
Gaselee was a strict Latinist,
and an accredited authority
on the text of the Satyricon;
and, facing the Latin text, he
selected a seventeenth-century
translation and omitted
from it the alleged forgeries,
which was annoying, as it
forced me to discard some of
the illustrations which had
reference to them.
I went to a considerable
amount of trouble over
those illustrations in respect to
a factual reconstruction of the
period, and never used any
data that I had not verified
from extant sources. Even in
such a trifling item as a
Roman razor I had to search
several museums before I
tracked down one, and thereby
discovered that Roman barbers
had forecast the principle
of the modern safety-razor.
But there are some instances
where complete factual evi-
dence is not to be had, as in the
case of a Roman merchant-
ship. We can get a fair notion
of its external structure from
sculptured fragments, but for
its inboard construction one
must rely on rational probabili-
ties. I came into conflict with
Gaselee there oyer the question
of decks. As he could find no
reference to decks in the
Satyricon, he assumed its ship
to be an open undecked galley.
I asked him if he thought that
the Romans, a hard-headed,
practical people, shipped silks,
spices, corn and other perish-
able commodities in an open
boat. He said vaguely that they
probably covered theqi with
oiled fabrics of some sort.
Again, he refused to concede
the Romans any sort of
shelved furniture or wooden
cupboards, as, of course, such
febrile affairs have long since
perished, and he could find
no reference to them in Roman
literature. I asked him what
the Romans did with their rare
vases and glassware and other
objects-of-art, and he said they
probably stood them on the
floor. Of such stuff are the
minds of scholarly precisionists
made . . .
It was necessary to be as
exact as possible in a pictorial
reconstruction of Rome under
the later Caesars, which was
certainly not the grandiose
Rome of the academic painters.
The Satyricon itself derides a
pretentious assumption that
life as it is lived by the mass
of a people can be a dignified
procedure, and only moon-
struck Utopianists are capable
of indulging such a fantasy.
On that score, the novel also
repudiates the concept of
reality in art as a present-
moment experience in the
action of life . . .
Petronius was an aristocrat.
He detested the Rome of his
era, with its corruption in all
public affairs by boodling
politicians and Governmental
officials, its vulgar ostenta-
tion of the rich parvenu class
which had ousted his own class
of a cultured aristocracy, its
decay of good manners and
all the graces of social life, and,
under all that, the crude rabble
catered to by the bloody
exhibitions of the arena. Yet,
as a spectacle, it fascinated
him. And as a great novelist
he accepted its spectacle as its
only enduring content to be
re-created in art, leaving the
sociological moralists to tub-
thump a denunciation of all
that they found obnoxious in
it both as a spectacle and a
corruption of civic integrity in
the conduct of affairs.
Between these two outlooks
on life as it is lived, the metier
of a novelist is suspended. If he
leans towards that of the social
moralist he has infected his
work with present - moment
factuality, and that is an
evanescent thing, changing
with each generation. For
that reason, the sociological
novelist who appears most
alive to his generation is most
dead to the one that succeeds
it. Only the novelists who
remain completely detached
from the moralistic outlook,
and concentrate on the
spectacle of life for its eternal
pattern of human behavior and
personality, will endure for
what power they have to
present it visually to the
mental eye of the reader. Of
such Petronius is one of the
greatest masters.
CJUDDENLY Ted’s eyes
flicked to a movement in
the bush itself.
It was a butterfly, damp-
winged and fresh from a
cocoon, crawling slowly up a
twig. Right in front of his
face. Climbing to get into the
sun and dry-out.
The squatting Jap, hands
clenched on his levelled gun,
was now staring fixedly at the
butterfly. His eyes moved with
it. This Ted rather sensed than
saw. This, and a faint relaxa-
tion in the squatting soldier.
The butterfly reached a
patch of sun and stopped there.
For some minutes the Jap con-
tinued to stare at the bush, and
Ted stared back. Behind him,
through his sweaty shirt, he
could feel his mate quivering
in suspense.
Then the butterfly rose in
the hot air and flew away. And
the Jap’s eyes followed it away
from the bush.
“So that’s all it was!” said
the Jap’s face. “A butterfly!”
He stood up, fixed his pants
and went back up the slope.
r THE Sister materialised.
"Still talking, Mr.
Volkes?”
“Going real well, Sister.”
“Well, quiet, now, and get
to sleep.”
THE NEW VIEW
We have made a new window
On the blank side,
We have got a sight of a
world unknown
Sunlit and wide ;
Fresh springs of life
Within us quicken,
Our poor old world looks grey,
shrunken,
Poverty-stricken.
Worlds within visible worlds,
We thought, were there,
Spheres of which we, blind,
had been
All unaware;
But there be walls beyond this,
As yet unpierced,
Vistas vaster and nobler may
yet upon
Our vision burst —.
Let us not boast them
And strut in pride;
Let us await that further
revelation
Till now denied.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.


Acton) —to say nothing of Sex and
Savage—are all dealt with as one might
expect.
But amongst all these intriguing
commonplaces of prohibited literature
the distinctive trends of South African
censorship are to be detected in the
banning of all Communist books,
periodicals and pamphlets (New China
Forges Ahead; New Hungary;
Rumania Today and that kind of thing
—even Rules of the Communist Party
of the Soviet Union); in a formidable
list of cheap Westerns and detective-
stories possibly it is economic
rather than moral censorship which has
clamped-down on such apparently
innocuous titles as Roaring Six-Guns,
by George C. Henderson and Texas
Hellion, by J. H. Plenn); and, finally,
in the restriction on books dealing
with racial problems and the negro—
Richard Wright’s Native Son, for
example.
And here and there in the list are
titles which, for one reason or another,
will surprise most readers and, in a
few cases, arouse the indignation
which is evoked by similar errors and
ineptitudes of the censorship in Aus-
tralia: Cage Me a Peacock, by Noel
Langley; Frankenstein, by Mary
Shelley; I Can Get It for You Whole-
sale, by Jerome Weidman; The House
of Madame Tellier, by Guy de
Maupassant; The Last of Mr. Norris,
by Christopher Isherwood; Nana, by
Emile Zola; Roxana, by Daniel Defoe;
The Story of Esther Costello, by
Nicholas Monsarrat; Tobacco Road,
by Erskine Caldwell; Turning Wheels,
by South Africa’s own Stuart Cloete;
Panama Is Burning, by Philip
Lindsay.
Other novels by Stuart Cloete and
Erskine Caldwell are banned; many
novels by James Hadley Chase, Ellery
Queen, Micky Spillane, James M. Cain,
Sydney Horler and Sax Rohmer; novels
by Alberto Moravia; Love Me Sailor,
by Robert S. Close; Night Side of
Sydney, by Zora Cross; and, amongst
the periodicals, “Man”; “Man Junior”;
“Pix” (October, 1949, and all future
issues) and “Pix Annual.” The country
of origin of these periodicals isn’t
stated.
Ezra Pound Again
In Section: Rock-Drill 85-95 de los
Cantares (Faber) Ezra Pound submits
only a few pages of these eleven new
cantos (first published in a limited
edition in Italy, 1955) without Chinese
ideograms. Canto 88 ends with
diagrams of hearts, diamonds and
spades in red and black . . .
One reminds oneself of the member
of the audience at a Beethoven first-
performance who loudly offered a sum
of money if the thing would stop . . .
The “cantos” presumably will stop at
100, which would leave only five to
go—but this may result from a
confusion of “cantos” with “centos.”
Meanwhile Ezra
is resorting to Egyptian
with hieroglyphs
(broken lines, broken English)
to acquaint the readers who do not
understand
with what he is incapable
of making clear.
And so, arrevederci, auf wiedersehen,
to say nothing of au revoir, or, in other
words: Be seein’ yez, Ez!
R. McC.
Two Poets
Alexander Craig’s Far-back Coantry
(Cheshire) and Charles Doyle’s A
Splinter of Glass (Pegasus Press,
Christchurch) are both first-books of
verse; and characteristic of such in
that both writers are chiefly pre-
occupied with personal problems. Mr.
Craig is a teacher of English from
Victoria; Mr. Doyle is an Irishman
who has settled in New Zealand.
Partly because of a greater technical
assurance, partly because his subject-
matter —being of love and of religion
—is of more universal application, Mr.
Craig’s poems come through more
firmly to the general reader. It is a pity
to see him occasionally invoking the
Muse and —at a distance after James
McAuley and Harold Stewart —writing
exercises in the 18th-century conven-
tions of smoothness and “correctness”
(the more so because some of his
rhymes are far from correct); but when
he is truly himself he does not do this
but ripples his way through a sonnet
in a style that makes even this most
perilous form come to life: —
But it’s no dream,
For sleep is far as day: the hollow
room
Miraculously, through miles of outer
night,
Filled by your presence swims
marine and bright.
He has an odd poem, previously
admired on this page, about three
saints, Macbethu, Dubslane, Malin-
mum, who sailed from Ireland like the
wise men of Gotham to convert Corn-
wall to Christianity; a surprising poem
called “The Bridal” about a symbolic
lion —there is a flash of Blake-like
vision in this; and he can also be very
effective, in lines at once fluid and
precise, as an observer of the con-
temporary scene: —
... a seaside park
Where close-cut grass in technicolor
green
Draws lingering couples down to
lie between
The captive pines, or by the children’s
swings ;
To whom, loud from a pier daylong
till dark,
America sings.
Mr. Doyle’s main sequence of poems
concerns his experiences as a migrant,
taking ship from Tilbury and, after
due difficulty, coming to terms with
New Zealand:—
Walking the Upper Road into the
City,
Especially of a morning when the
harbor
Waters are rubbed with mist like
breathed-on silver,
Somes Island crouched in the midst,
a frog in a marsh.
The verse is loose and rather wordy,
as if in style as well as in geography
he is still searching for . a place to
settle. But he writes pleasantly enough
and occasionally, as in “For My
Father,” where he is genuinely stirred
by a poetic emotion, very well indeed.
Robey
A. E. Wilson’s biography of Sir
George Robey, C.8.E., Prime Minister
of Mirth (Odhams), is richly informa-
tive, but it nowhere approaches, as a
picture of Robey on the stage, the
short account Neville Cardus gave of
him in his autobiographical “Second
Innings.” At the time one took that
as merely an example of English
criticism at its best, but the cuttings
produced in Mr. Wilson’s book from
the writings of other critics about Robey
suggest that Mr. Cardus could have
been, besides a music-critic, the
foremost theatrical critic of his own
times. It is one thing to pontificate
upon an entertainer’s grading, but quite
another to recreate his art in words.
However. George Robey was born
in 1869, son of Charles Wade, a civil
engineer, who worked for some time on
the Mersey Tunnel, and, when George
was eleven, took the family to
Germany, where he was busy with
tramways. Thus in Dresden, George
acquired the command of German
(he was for two years second in German
composition in his classes at the
German school) which made him so
good in his sketch as “The German
Professor.” Going on to Leipzig, he
fought a duel there, and, his opponent’s
sword cutting deeply into his neck, fell
forward so that his own sword went
so far into the other man’s thigh as
to stay there when Robey let it go.
The family returning to England,
Robey went for a short while to
Cambridge, enabling Beerbohm to say,
“I consider Mr. George Robey to be
the one brilliant man Cambridge has
produced during the last twenty-five
years.” But, his father having lost
heavily in speculations, he was sent


"Mope Against Mope
By MARJORIE WEAVER
Here is a charming light romance which will appeal to all women readers. Set
m Australia and England (both countries which the author knows intimately)
this is an engrossing story of human emotions.
Retail Price in Australia, 15/6. (Postage extra.)
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
HODDER & STOUGHTON LTD.
at eighteen to Birmingham to be
clerk of the works on construction oj
the city’s first cable-tram. He filled his
spare time with football, painting anc
listening to classic German music
joined an amateur entertainer in
mandolin-duets and then, at a church
charity-concert, ventured upon a comic
song from a London burlesque.
The enthusiastic reception of this
persuaded him that he was a comic
singer. He rejoined his family in
London, became in demand al
smoking-concerts, sometimes for a
small fee, changed his name from Wade
to Roby (a Birmingham building-
firm) and gradually worked his way
into the music-halls, by 1891 becoming
a leading member of the profession,
singing such things as “A Simple Little
Pimple,” “Staring Me In the Face,”
“He’s a Dear, Kind Doctor,” and
haying most of his hit-songs especially
written for him so that only he could
sing them—as did his fellow-stars Dan
Leno, Vesta Tilley, Albert Chevalier
and Marie Lloyd.
And so it is a story of continual
hard work; nightly cab-journeys
around London from hall to hall varied
by annual appearances as dames of
pantomime. He must remind Aus-
tralians of no one more than “Mo.”
He “held the audience in the hollow
of his hand,” and when he raised his
semicircular eyebrows, sternly lifted
his hand and said “Desist!” they
desisted. Moreover, he seems to have
been as ingrainedly English in his
humor as “Mo” was ingrainedly Aus-
tralian. It is no drawback to inter-
national fame in a mime like Crock,
but for a comedian who parodies
localised accents and ways of life it
means that in another country half his
appeal is gone, which may explain
Robey’s small success in Australia in
1939—a matter over which Mr. Wilson
skates very lightly.
Robey was one of the few music-
hall artists who made the dangerous
crossing from the dying halls into
musicomedy and revue: Sir Oswald
Stoll found him his first job in revue
at the Alhambra in 1916, in “The Bing
Boys Are Here,” the great war-time
show to which all soldiers on leave
eventually gravitated. There Robey
and Violet Lorraine sang “If You
Were the Only Girl in the World,” and
a trio sang “Another Little Drink
Wouldn’t Do Us Any Harm,” and
Robey sang what seems to have been
a very fruity comic song, “In Other
Words.”
In 1925 he invented his own revue,
“Bits and Pieces,” and later toured it
through South Africa and Canada. His
next big venture was his appearance
as King Menelaus in A. P. Herbert’s
rehash of Offenbach’s “La Belle
Helene” in 1932; and he was off on yet
another tack in 1935 as Falstaff in
Sydney Carroll’s production, wherein
the critics seem to have been more
anxious that he should succeed than
sure that he had succeeded.
He was knighted in 1954, in his
85th year. He was not abashed, as
were so many of his profession, by
Royalty—he appeared in ordinary
evening-dress at a reception by George
V, who was no slouch at upholding
the regal dignity, and, looking pointedly
at the knee-breeches of the guests, told
his Majesty that if he’d known he’d
have brought his bicycle-clips.
New Guinea Novel
The eternal triangle is, of coarse,
eternally the favorite device of
romantic fiction. Your real interest
may be to describe a way of life in
remote and primitive places; but, to
make a plot, to provide the “love-
interest” so dear to the hearts of at
least the great magazine-reading public,
you have two men in love with the
same girl.
In Kimdu (Angus and Robertson), a
novel of New Guinea, Morris L. West
has a singular—or rather a plural-
advantage in that his heroine, the
glamorous Gerda Sonderfeld, is, as
she truly observes, a woman who has
loved many men.” Even Pere Louis,
the priest who is the deus-ex-machina
of the novel, likes to relax in her
company. Theodore Nelson, the
cowardly agent for the coffee-company,
pours out his heart to her in stories of
his travels. Lansing, the anthropologist,
is her lover. Lee Curtis, the cadet
patrol-officer, would like to be. Oliver,
the A.D.O. who turns up rather late
in the story, is a former lover; and
even her husband, though given to
consoling himself with a native girl
whom he shares with a sorcerer, is
faintly attracted to her from time to
time. The eternal triangle, conse-
quently, is practically an eternal
septangle.
And very likely, too, in New Guinea;
and very useful to Mr. West when,
having had the anthropologist bumped-
off by snake-sorcery and having
dismissed Curtis as too young for such
goings-on, he wants to make a happy
ending with the A.D.O. folding Gerda
into his arms beside the pile of dead
pigs upon which, in well-deserved
death, slain by the club of the sorcerer,
reposes the body of her husband.
But, apart from the tropic love,
nothing else in “Kundu” seems particu-
larly probable. Kurt Sonderfeld is a
former Nazi, given villainously to
smoking cigars like the villain of Mr.
West’s previous novel “Gallows on the
Sand.” He has a “power-complex”
and, for reasons so vague that Mr.
West has to drive him mad to justify
them, wants to get control of the tribes
through their sorcerers and rule like
a king in the mountains: which Gerda
and her swarm of lovers mercifully
conspire to prevent.
Well written and swift-moving, with
touches of interesting characterisation
and much lurid lore of the country, the
novel passes away an hour or so
pleasantly enough; but by the adoption
of these dime-novel plots Mr. West
really removes his work from serious
consideration.
The Sun: Giorgio Abetti, translated
by J. B. Sidgwick (Faber). Published
in Italian in 1934, first translated, after
revisal and enlargement, in 1*951; now
(1957) republished as revised up to
1954, it constitutes everything under
the sun about the sun, and, say the
publishers, “is not only an essential
book for the professional astronomer
but also a fascinating story for the
inquiring layman.” For one layman
it is enough to say that Fabers are
such a respectable firm that they prob-
ably wouldn’t even lie on a dust-jacket,
and that the book is finely produced,
with a multitude of well-drawn
diagrams, charts, sections of observa-
tories, etc., and 147 plates, such as
Plate 80: “Eruptive prominence-
filament photographed by Pettit at Mt.
Wilson with the Ha fine ” At that, -
for the inquiring layman, it’s a change
from similar studies of Marilyn
Monroe.


mm
yvv.
vCr
II
m
>y? :
m
m
•£•>><&£* ;*v : ; ' . :
,/ y -
it J- S f
9
• •>
*
’■‘-5
*V
Roads are Australia’s lifeline . . . an essential part
of our national economy. But today, this vital
national lifeline is diminishing as edges crumble
through increased traffic wear, through the whittling
effect of erosion, through inadequate upkeep due to
lack of funds.
As a motorist these crumbling roads are costing
you money. You are paying in the form of reduced
miles per gallon, increased tyre wear, greater main-
tenance and depreciation costs and higher insurance
premiums. _ . . .
As a citizen these roach are costing you money.
The food you eat, the clothes you wear, in fact, the
everyday items you use in your home travel by road
on some part of their journey from farm to market
or manufacturer to you. Bad roads cause costly
■ ' i • ‘ '• •
delays, these delays help push up the prices of goods
and services which ultimately are passed on to you
in turn forcing up your cost of living.
Australia is a country where roads are such an
essential part of the national economy that they
carry no less than 76% of all freight and 64% of
all passengers.
So we need good roads. Good roads pay and that’s
good for you and everybody else.
CATERPILLAR 4
M4°
O'
W*
\*V>
V.O
V*>°
AND CAT ARE
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A.
When you think of
better roads, think of
the big yellow machines
that help build them.
Dl5O
<■<
m
V
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
DIESEL ENGINES . TRACTORS • MOTOR GRADERS • EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT
