

m..
WM
SOLERO
S W EET. OR DRY
The Bulletin
Special Anzac Day Features
Wednesday, April 24,1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
- Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE ADMIRALTY ARCH, LONDON
ONE of London’s best known landmarks is
Admiralty Arch, at the south-west side of
Trafalgar Square in the heart of the metropolis.
This massive arch spans the “triumphal avenue”
of the Mall, leading to Buckingham Palace.
This imposing entrance to the Mall was designed
by Sir Aston Webb as part of the national
memorial to Queen Victoria, and was erected in
1910, although the roadway beneath it was not
completed until a year later, just in time for the
Coronation Procession of King George V. The
gates of the triple archway are the largest of their
kind in the country and the processional way is
overlooked by the lion and unicorn, l ire rooms
above the arch contain the extensive and valuable
library of the Admiralty.
The Admiralty buildings are nearby in Horse
Guards’ Parade and are surmounted by wireless
installations which enable the administration to
keep in touch with the British fleets in all parts
of the world. It was in the Captains’ Room of
the Old Admiralty buildings that the body of
Nelson lay in state, prior to entombment in St.
Paul’s Cathedral.
Nearer Admiralty Arch is a monument of the
second world war —the massive bombproof Citadel
and also a statue of Captain Cook (1728-79)
designed by Sir Thomas Brock.
The spacious avenue of the Mall is lined.with
rows of trees and is flanked on one side by St.
James’s Park and on the other by palatial
mansions. Among these are Carlton House
Terrace; Marlborough House, the home of Queen
Mary until her death in 1953; and Clarence House,
now the London home of Queen Elizabeth, the
Queen Mother, and Princess Margaret.
No. 346: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppel t.


UOOKUUNTEK, Box 2(571, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate 5 fee only if suc-
cessful
freelances!
WHAT TO WRITE, WHERE TO SELL
The “WRITERS’ MARKETING GUIDE ’ (1956-57 edition) lists current
details of Australian, N.Z. and overseas markets for pars, articles, stories,
radio scripts, etc.
A MUST for every freelance. Price 12/6 at leading booksellers,
or direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS' PROFESSIONAL SERVICE.
Box 28. Collins Street P. 0., Melbourne.
The Red Page
DICKENS AND DISRAELI
It seems a little cynical in Thomas
Nelson and Sons, Ltd., to have selected,
out of the whole vast range of their
Nelson Classics, one solitary volume for
review in Australia: Sybil, by Benjamin
Disraeli, which—here is the nigger in
the woodpile, if one may use so
dubious an expression—has been edited
by Professor A. Norman Jeffares of
Adelaide. The Red Page, one would
remind Messrs. Nelson, has reviewed
the “Ethics” of Aristotle with no
thought of insisting that either Aristotle
or his editor should be Australian.
Still, it may in general be a wise
cynicism. Certainly it is interesting to
see what Professor Jeffares has to say
about the novel:—
The entirely non - sentimental
presentation of the plight of the poor
is made the more effective by the
loving delight which went into his
picture of the great houses. And the
main virtue of “Sybil” lies in its use
of satire; in the cat’s-eyes of wit
which gleam in the searching light
of his intellectual analysis of the
novel’s various situations.
And if by this means “Sybil” is to
win a new crop of readers in Australia,
so much the better: for it is a delight-
ful novel.
There is much to be said for Pro-
fessor Jeffares’s view that it was also
important as “a new achievement for
the English novel”: —
It succeeds in doing what its
author intended, in putting across
a serious view of life, in presenting
a new conception of past
history, and in surveying the broader
issues of the dangerous con-
temporary social situation; that
it does this at all was a new achieve-
ment for the English novel; and we
must regard it as a successful experi-
mental work.
But this is an opinion which needs
some qualification, for the point that
will strike most readers coming freshly
to it is how very closely, every time he
reaches his peaks—at any rate in scenes
of low-life—Disraeli resembles Charles
Dickens.
When you come to that lively scene
where Gerard and Morley are being
introduced to the Temple of the Muses,
a beautifully beery oasis in the lives of
the suffering poor, surely it is Mr.
Jingle who chimes again in the rich
staccato gabble of the landlord: —
“Be back directly,” exclaimed
their host, darting off with a swift
precision that carried him through
a labyrinth of tables without the
slightest inconvenience to their
occupiers. “Beg pardon, Mr.
Morley,” he said, sliding again into
his chair; “but saw one of the
American gentlemen brandishing his
bowie-knife against one of my
waiters; called him Colonel;
quieted him directly; a man of
his rank brawling with a help; oh!
no ; not to be thought of ; no squab-
bling in here; licence in danger.”
“You were saying” resumed
Morley.
“Ah, yes, about that man Hatton ;
remember him perfectly well; a
matter of twenty or it may be nine-
teen years since he bolted. Queer
fellow; lived upon nothing; only
drank water; no temperance and
teetotal then, so no excuse. Beg
pardon, Mr. Morley; no offence,
I hope; can’t bear whims; but
respectable societies, if they don’t
drink, they make speeches, hire
your rooms, leads to business.”
“And this Hatton?” said Gerard.
“Ah! a queer fellow; lent him
a one-pound note; . never saw it
again; always remember it; last
one-pound note I had. He offered
me an old book instead ; not in my
way; took a china jar for my wife.”
The “malicious imp,” Master Joseph,
bullying the women in the tommy-shop
(where they are robbed of the pittances
their husbands have earned in the
mines), might be Dickens’s malicious
imp, Quilp, bullying his wife:—
“Order there ; order ; you cussed
women, order, or I’ll be among you.
And if I just do jump over this here
counter, won’t I let fly right and
left!”
And the “bishop” of Wodgate and
his wife—savagely maltreating their
apprentices in that queer township
where the workmen have set up their
own factories, and treat each other
even more brutally than the capitalist
employers treat their wage-slaves:
Disraeli had few illusions about human
nature—the “bishop” and his wife are
very close indeed to Wackford Squeers
and his helpmate:—
“Now, boys,” said the bishop, in
a hoarse,'harsh voice, “steady there.
There’s a file what don’t sing; can’t
deceive my ear; I know all their
voices. Don’t let me find that ’un
out, or I won’t walk into him, won’t
I? Ayn’t you lucky, boys, to have
reg’lar work like this, and the best
of prog” .... His reply called down
his unseen correspondent, who soon
entered his workshop. It was the
awful presence of Mrs. Hatton ; a
tall bearded virago, with a file in her
hand, for that seemed the distinctive
arm of the house, and eyes flash-
ing with unbridled power. “Look
after the boys,” said Hatton, “for I
have business.”
“Won’t I?” said Mrs. Hatton;
and a thrill of terror pervaded the
assembly. . .
“Sybil” was published in 1845 ; “The
Pickwick Papers” 'in „ 1837 and
“Nicholas Nickleby” in 1839 —it is
clear enough that Disraeli wrote under
the master’s influence. He did not
invent the sociological novel; he did
not —wholly—invent some of his own
most memorable characters.
But where “Sybil” may still perhaps
be said to be a “new achievement” is
in the completeness of its picture of
English society something that
Dickens was always aiming at but
never quite achieved because he could
never be at home with a lord, even Sir
Leicester Dedlock ; in the fact that it
is wholly a political novel —and a
rare proof that this very difficult genre
can succeed; and, oddly, because of
the impression it conveys of a greater
sincerity in its pictures of politics and
society. Dickens’s exuberance, whether
sentimental or humorous, so often ran
away with him: Disraeli, on the whole,
though his central love-story is silly
(Red Page continued on page 66)
COOK
When Cook saw land
the land saw him
and a column of smoke went up,
went up to the sky.
When Cook touched land
the land touched him
and columns of smoke went up
both far and near.
When Cook stood from the land
the smokes stood too.
And the word, the word was Fear.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


You can afford a
SWIMMING POOL
ON YOUR OWN
PROPERTY
Prepare Now For Next
Summer
A whole new world of liv-
ing awaits you when you
own your own private swim-
ming pool. You can relax in
the sun or entertain guests in
a charmingly informal way.
Star? now to plan for that
pleasure-filled summer with a
beautiful, economical swim-
ming pool of your own,
designed to blend with and
enhance your garden land-
scape.
r
W
mmmm
its**.
The private swimming pool, once the hallmark of millionaires, is now within
the reach of the average homeowner. A “Todd” designed and engineered
swimming pool can be filled periodically with fresh or salt water —or, if you
prefer, it can be supplied complete with automatic water filtration and re-
circulating plant.
YOUR POOL ONLY NEEDS FILLING ONCE
%
yet the water remains pure, sparkling and crystal clear throughout the seasons.
If you already have a swimming pool, we can supply and install water filtration equipment.
“Todd” swimming pools can be completely built and installed in your own garden, at a surpris-
ingly low cost. G. E. Todd & Co. can care for all the details or they can supply you with all
materials and complete instructions in the “Do-it-yourself Kit” and you can arrange your own
excavation.
Now is the time to enrich your out-
door living .
Post coupon below for further details.
WRITE - CALL - PHONE
We invite you to inspect the swimming
pool installed at our own works in
Revesby. A full size pool will also
be on display at the Homes Exhibition
end the Sydney Industries Fair at the
Showground.
G. E. TODD. co m ltd.
Mavis Street, REVESBY, N.S.W. (And all other States).
Phone UY 8237 or, after 8/12/56, UU 0771 (6 lines).
Please forward details of Todd Swimming Pools and
Filtration Plants.
NAME
ADDRESS
Bull. 24/4
SWIMMING POOLS
IN THE NEWS
The private swimming pool, which
was once the hallmark of American
millionaires, is now becoming the
everyday possession, not only of
Mr. and Mrs. Suburbia but of quite
a number of farming families.
Thanks to new materials and con-
struction ideas, the permanent
private swimming pool is within
reach of most family budgets. The
private swimming pool need not be
a geometrically precise tank in which
you match your swimming speeds
against all comers —it is in fact a
wonderful substitute for the seaside
—with the added advantages that it
is non tidal, close at hand and free
of insects, blue bottles and all those
other nasty little pests—such as small
children throwing sand. Not only
all this, but your pool need never
be refilled. The most important
feature of any well designed swim-
ming pool is the water filtration
plant and this is particularly
important to people to whom water
is a scarce commodity, such as a
farmer or grazier. In a pool fitted
with a packaged water filtration
plant, the water remains clear and
sparkling the whole year round —■
only slight losses of water, due to
evaporation and the periodic “back-
washing” of the filter need to be
made up.
Without filtration, the water,
however clear it may be on entering
the pool, will quickly become con-
taminated by airborne dust and
general use, making it turbid,
unpleasant and stagnant. The most
common infections contracted by
bathers are those of the eyes, ears,
nose and throat —floating mucus
being the most potent carriers of
these infections.
As the maximum pollution takes
place at the surface of the pool,
modern water filtration plants are
designed to drain off from the sur-
face rather than below it —or by
using a surface skimmer.
A swimming pool filtration plant
consists of a vessel containing the
filter bed, usually filled with sand,
a main circulating pump and
chemical dosing plants. A' standard
filter plant is available for every
sized pool.
For perfect distribution of fresh
filtered water, the system of circula-
tion locates the inlets along the
pool’s centre line and the water is
drawn off over weirs at the sides.
This sets up a constant skimming
action, which not only eliminates
bacteria concentrations but also
removes floating debris, such as
leaves and dust, before they have
time to become waterlogged.
Naturally as bathers enter the
pool the circulation system is
abruptly intruded upon. The water
level rises, flooding over the weirs—
this releases more water from the
pump sump and the. drawn off water
passes through the filtration plant
back into the pool.
The treatment of the surroundings
of your pool opens up enormous
possibilities trees, shrubs and
lawns, together with crazy pavements
and concrete walks, can make your
own private swimming pool truly a
source of everlasting beauty and a
place for entertaining friends.
A swimming pool can be designed
to suit your own individual budget
at a price unbelievably low. Write
to G. E. Todd & Co. and discuss
your requirements. Our address is—
G. E. TODD & CO. PTY. LTD.,
Mavis Street, Revesby, N.S.W.


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4028
Wednesday, April 24,1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man’*
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:.
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Mew Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (apposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NORTHERN REVOLUTION
THE discovery that the Far North is
a mass of mineral wealth is no new
thing. The men who first found it out
have long passed on, having reaped
very little from their exploration and
discoveries.
Names like Logan Jack, Cuthbert,
Linedale and many more mean noth-
ing to the modern Australian. Yet
they covered the ground very
thoroughly long ago, though their
thoughts of development and their
visions of the future were hampered
by imperfect technology and even more
imperfect transport.
In the days of Cuthbert, who was the
unobtrusive but insistent champion of
the area between the mouth of the
McArthur River and Cloncurry in the
years just before the First World War,
the Commonwealth had little concern
with such matters, though the Queens-
land Government in 1910 completed a
railway from Townsville into the
region.
Motor-transport as a carrying
proposition had not arrived. Heavy
earthmoving and mining equipment,
modern methods of geological
exploration, air-transport and carriage,
and particularly the helicopter, which
is due to play a very important role in
the detailed examination of some of
the rough hill country round the Kil-
gour and McArthur headwaters and
further to the east along the “jump-
down,” had hardly been dreamt of.
In more recent years, since Mt. Isa’s
promoters dared greatly and won, the
North again has become a popular
developmental theme, and the nuclear
age began to bring it even to the
notice of the politicians who, for the
first time in the Federal era, were
prepared to admit that development
and increase of population might
depend primarily and permanently on
something other than cattle, sheep and
agriculture. All of which have pro-
duced nothing in recent years but a
dwindling of population, as their
entrepreneurs have found it possible to
carry on with reduced labor through
the use of modem machinery and
motor-transport.
The statements of Mr. Menzies at
Cairns and of Senator Spooner,
Minister for National Development,
within the past few days, show how
popular the North is becoming. It is a
subject on which Prime Ministers have
hitherto almost consistently been con-
tent to issue the thinnest of platitudes
devoid of fact; but this time Govern-
mental enthusiasm has a solid base.
Mt. Isa’s discoveries of new and
promising silver-lead deposits on the
McArthur River are no news to oldsters
of the region, any more than the
existence of considerable outcrops of
copper along the Kilgour adjacent; and
the bauxite of Weipa has been known
to locals for at least 60 years, though
the discovery had little more signifi-
cance until recently than the knowledge
that uranium existed in the Northern
Territory in some quantity.
AH this region is now coming into
its own. In 1957 the Weipa bauxite
deposits are of enormous importance
in a world in which aluminium has
become a prime metal, and aircraft-
construction, building and metal tech-
nology in general know no sphere in
which it and its alloys are not essential
on a large scale.
The deposits are greater than those
of Jamaica (which form the raw
material for one of the greatest of the
world’s hydroelectric enterprises,
in Canada, thousands of miles
away) and are said to be the
purest in the world—so pure that when
samples first were sent southward the
assayers asked that no more concen-
trates be sent since they were useless
indicators of the quality of the deposits.
They weren’t concentrates but the raw
product.
The uranium deposits of the Mt. Isa
region have attracted shrewd over-
seas investors, and the silver-lead of
the Mt. Isa-Borroloola Mountain line
is as extensive as anything known,
not to mention the copper finds in
various portions of the North, from
Tennant Creek north-eastward, which
have yet to be exploited..
The North in the early days of
Queensland was a playground of
Queensland Governments. With the
moving-in of huge concerns like the
Isa people and Consolidated Zinc,
Rio Tinto, etc., who are now combin-
ing or collaborating with the Bureau of
Mineral Resources and the Queensland
Government to make a factual survey
of possibilities and means of exploita-
tion, the old days are back again but
on a grander scale. But Mr. Gair
hasn’t the Mcllwraith or Philp or Kid-
ston spirit.
The problem of a great deal of the
North seems to be on the way to being
solved. Weipa is on the edge of that
part of the Cape York area in which
there is virtually no production at all,
and in the outer marches of the
Peninsula District which officially
begins at the 16th parallel. The official
district, with an area of 49,000 square
miles (more than half that of Victoria),
has a normal population of well under
2000 (excluding the mile-long Thurs-
day Island, which carries as many or
more than all the rest), which subsists
almost entirely on a stock population,
cattle and horses, of under 100,Q00.
Bauxite, the first mineral-find of
modem importance, means transforma-
tion —new ports, roads, at least one
great town and general prospecting
activity which is almost certain to be
richly fruitful.
The Queensland North - western
District, which is bounded on the north-
west by all the Gulf coast in the State
which is not included in the Peninsula,
and runs in the east roughly along the
145th meridian east and in the south
roughly level with the 22nd parallel,
includes all the rest of the mineral belt
and some of the finest pastoral land in
Australia, much of it devoted to sheep.
It has an area of 146,000 square miles,
nearly half that of N.S.W. Its popula-
tion actually declined between 1933
and 1947 from 16,500 to 15,000. It
has shown a further decline in some
sections, and has been at best static
in all areas except the Cloncurry dis-
trict, which includes Mt. Isa, where
there has been an increase of about
5000 or 6000 or so in 10 years.
It is quite obvious that mineral
development is going to be the saving
of the area. Every effort should be
made to develop these districts swiftly.
They are a definite and imminent temp-
tation to the predatory Communist and
Communist-influenced Governments of
the north, and they should be exploited
with a sure and firm touch. A lot of
the taxpayers’ money which is being
squandered on Mr. Cahill’s political
dams that never get finished and on
other enterprises could better move
northward, together with some enter-
prise and vision.
The North needs a Playford.
ANZAC DAY FEATURES
Page
Cartoon 5
This Was Tobruk 11
El Alamein 18
Fighter-pilot 38
The Best Summer Holiday 62


WE WILL REMEMBER THEM


PLAIN ENGLISH
Caster Toll
From Christmas until Easter Victorian
traffic police concentrated on inspections
of cais which gave some indication of not
being roadworthy ; they weren’t surprised
to find that one in 10 was unsafe.
Since last August 8000 cars have been
found unsafe by police inspection, and
5000 of these have been discovered since
Christmas. Notices are attached to the
cars, and they mustn’t be removed until
an authorised policeman has passed them
as roadworthy.
In N. S. Wales cars are checked for
efficiency at authorised garages, which
seems a simpler method and less costly
than the employment of policemen on
the public payroll; but Victorian police
find that certificates of roadworthiness are
issued in N.S.W. to vehicles they consider
unsatisfactory, especially to inter-State
trucks.
Some Victorian policemen, with
experience of overseas methods, consider
the establishment of Government inspect
tion-stations inevitable and estimate each
one could handle—at 10 to 20 minutes
for each vehicle—so,ooo a year. It is
simply a question of how many lives lost
on the roads at Easter and Christmas will
force their establishment.
It is significant that in Vancouver,
where an inspection is compulsory every
six months, accidents due to mechanical
faults have been reduced from one in 14
to one in 300.
A Red Indonesia?
Although Minister for External Affairs
Casey skated over the Indonesian
situation in his foreign-affairs review,
the political and economic future of our
78 million nearest northern neighbors is
worrying the Australian Government. It
is more concerned about the future
stability of Indonesia than with any other
foreign problem—Suez included. There
is good reason for this. Indonesia is at
our backdoor.
A united, faintly hostile Indonesia
occasionally repeating its untenable
claims for jurisdiction over Dutch New
Guinea is merely annoying; but a dis-
united, unhappy Indonesia, open to Com-
munist subversion, is a threat. The only
saving-grace in the present crisis is that
no one in the West now takes the Indo-
nesian claim on New Guinea seriously.
How could Indonesia manage Dutch
New Guinea affairs when it can’t even
manage its own? How can President
Soekarno speak glibly about the oppressed
native people of Dutch New Guinea
being under the heel of Dutch imperia-
lists when people in his own province of
Sumatra are crying out that the central
Government in Djakarta is treating them
like colonial serfs? It was this “colonial”
protest from rebel Army-leaders which
spelt the downfall of the Sastroamidjojo
Government.
Of course, Soekarno can’t dune the
West, as apparently he can some
of his followers, with his claim that
Indonesian Communists are different
from Communists in other parts of the
world. The only difference is that they
are in Indonesia.
Australia wants Soekarno to achieve
stable government in the only possible
way in a democracy: let the spirit of
compromise play a part. And Western
diplomats are confident that in any com-
promise the Indonesian Army, which is
predominantly anti-Communist, and the
two leading Moslem religious parties—-
the Masjumi and the N.U. —will insist
on sanity.
The last thing these religious groups
want is to be’swallowed-up in a “one-
big-party scheme” —Soekarno’s open-
sesame to Communist influence in Gov-
ernment affairs.
The economic aspect of Indonesia’s
current unrest is hardiy less important than
the political dangers. Latest information
before the Australian Government shows
that Indonesia’s foreign reserves are
already well below the statutory mini-
mum. This will mean new Indo-
nesian import-restrictions, which, of
course, will hit Australia’s improving
export trade. Our recent success as an
exporter of machinery and manufactured
goods to Indonesia is in danger of being
cut back to almost bedrock.
The defence dangers inherent in a dis-
united Indonesia are obvious. But
defence experts should be, already, as a
normal precaution, re-examining Aus-
tralia’s northern defences in the event
of the very worst —a Red Indonesia.
Room to Move
Leaving the recent pilots’ strike out of
the question, statistics and experience of
other countries leave one wondering
whether Australian internal airways won’t
presently compete with road- and rail-
transport, so carefully socialised, in set-
ting the world’s greatest standard of lag
and clog ; this especially when the private
aircraft-owner gets into his stride.
Australia still leads in some respects in
air-passenger transport, but it is far
behind in the matter of aerodromes and
in the size of aircraft.
Aerodromes don’t cater much for
private fliers. They are in the main the
preserve of commercial and defence
operators. If the development in privately
owned small craft parallels that of the
United States there will presently be some
lovely bottlenecks, because there will, in
20 years, be. no room for adequate urban
landing-grounds for most of the hour-
hop sky-loopers coasting in from beyond
Newcastle and Goulburn to Sydney or
into other cities or doing the quarter-
hour trip from their villas in the Blue
Mountains —this even if the helicopter
has replaced the winged plane.
The United States has 63,000 small
business and private machines, tens of
thousands of which hit the air on Sun-
days in the sam£ way that cars hit the
seaside and mountain roads out of the
Australian capitals.
Even with all their planning, the
Americans haven't been able to deal
satisfactorily with the situation which this
condition of affairs produces, in addition
to 1500 large commercial aircraft. Com-
mercial tfaffic in passengers was 6,000,000
in 1946, 22 million last year, and antici-
pated to be 60 million by 1970. The
average carried by U.S. passenger-
machines is now 40 ; within five years it
is expected to be 100, and the number of
commercial aircraft to increase by up to
60 per cent.
Already there is real cause in the
United States to worry about congested
air-lanes, and collisions are demonstrating
what is likely to happen when the air ts
three times as thick with commercial
and 20 times as thick with “fleas and
bugs”—private weekend craft and
“executive” planes. Last year 128 people
were killed in one crash between liners
over the Grand Canyon, and the Civil
Aeronautics Board reported 452 “near-
misses” during 1956, including 83 involv-
ing commercial aircraft, almost any one
of which was within a few feet either way
of duplicating the Grand Canyon smash.
For Australia the time, to plan is now,
before all the countryside within 50 miles
of capital cities is built over to preclude
resumption of large areas for private
dromes except at prohibitive costs.
Press Interviews at Canberra
[From M. i’. Dixon]
Newspaper-journalists at Canberra
(B. 6/3/’57) resent the intrusion of IV-
editors and cameramen at press-inter-
views in the same way and for much the
same reason that they resented the intru-
sion of radio-journalists 16 or 17 years
ago.
The A.B.C. had only a partial cover of
Parliament until the Lyons Government,
after a dispute with the newspapers,
directed the commission to appoint its
own full-time journalist to report Parlia-
mentary proceedings. The man chosen
was Warren Denning, a widely ex-
perienced pressman who was on the
staff of Australian United Press at Can-
berra at the time.
Denning had hardly got into his stride
when Lyons died and Menzies became
Prime Minister. Immediately pressure
was put on Menzies to exclude the A.B.C.
representative from his press-conferences,
the newspaper-journalists arguing that
information elicited by their questions
could be broadcast hours before it
appeared in print; and in any case they
thought the A.B.C. should be compelled
to think out its own questions. .
Denning was quite capable of doing
this; and the press - gallery knew it.
Menzies acceded to their request for a
few weeks, admitting only newspaper-
representatives to his first conference and
then holding a second one at which
Warren Denning alone was present. But
the P.M. soon tired of this, saying he
regarded it as a wdste of time, and there-
after Denning attended the regular press-
conference and put his own questions in
the same way as he had been putting
them while representing A.U.P.
The press-gallery raised no further
objection; and as the A.B.C. staff grew


it was allotted seats in the press-gallery
in proportion to its requirements.
Newspapers are fond of telling the
public that “you can’t stop progress” ;
and Tm afraid that from now on they’ll
have to accept TV as part of the
Canberra set-up in the same way as they
were obliged to accept broadcasting.
Moscow Manoeuvres
The Egyptian Government seems to be
standing firm in its determination to
have its own way with the Suez Canal
and has made no move to ease its atti-
tude towards allowing Israeli ships to
pass through or into the Gulf of Akaba.
Indeed, it has been reiterated that the
Tiran Straits are Egyptian waters which
Nasser intends to continue to control;
and he still considers himself at war with
Israel. Saudi Arabia, which has taken
over some of the adjacent area, supports
him.
Meanwhile, Jordan is in a state of
ferment, and young King Hussein must
be deeply regretting that he agreed to
the departure of the British command. He
had, during the week, staved off a threat
of a Communist coup backed apparently
by Syrian underminers, but all round,
and even inside his borders, medieval-
looking-armies were gathering to join in
any dogfight which the chaotic situation
might throw up. The only one which
didn’t look medieval was the Syrian con-
tribution, armed with modern Russian
weapons.
In the broader world, strong Russian
propaganda moves, approved by people
like Dr. Evatt, were being made to intimi-
date the British and prevent them holding
the H-bomb tests at Christmas Island.
There is no doubt that the whole of
this business is Kremlin-instigated and
carefully planned «on a large scale. It
includes a bit of leg-pulling. President
Eisenhower, following some Kremlin
approaches, had agreed to the principle of
the open-sky policing of atom-defence in
Europe, provided the patrolled area
suggested by the Russians —500 miles on
each side of the Iron Curtain line —was
extended considerably. This isn’t likely
to be agreed to in any effective terms.
Under the bland Russian scheme the
patrolling would not reach into Russia,
but it would cover all the main frontal
defence areas of Western Europe.
The Artful Dodger
Cahill continues to have a foot in both
camps over uniform-taxation. He has
supported Bolte’s appeal to the High
Court, but apparently doesn’t really want
the system ended, as Bolte does, but
merely amended to give his State a bigger
share of tax-money. His trouble seems
to be that he is trying to avoid an out-
right contradiction of declared A.L.P.
policy, which favors the retention of the
present system, introduced by a Federal
Labor Government, and at the same time
is desperately keen to squeeze as much
money as possible out of the Canberra
collections.
At Premiers’ conferences the N.S.W.
Premier has been critical of uniform-
taxation, but he always seems to sidestep
the issue when anyone makes a concrete
proposal. After one such attack Victorian
Premier Bolte went to Sydney to see if
a joint appeal by the two senior States
could be organised. He returned to Mel-
bourne with no more than a string of
platitudes as a souvenir of his visit.
Months later Cahill announced that his
State would, support the Victorian appeal,
but only he seems to know just how far.
. Last week Deputy Opposition-leader
Askin accused the Premier of sabotaging
the recommendation of the all-party com-
mittee set-up by the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment to review the Constitution. The
committee recommended two months ago
that the Federal Government should be
asked, as a matter of urgency, to repeal
the uniform-taxation legislation. Askin
said the present system conflicted with
the principle that a Government should
be responsible for raising money to give
effect to its legislative programme.
Cahill’s reply to this was that he.
thought a system could be devised where-
by the people could be saved the incon-
venience which previously existed with
dual taxation and at the same time
preserve the States’ rights. He said the
States should negotiate with the Com-
monwealth to see that they got a proper
share of taxation.
This looks very much as if Honest Joe
is still playing with the idea which he
suggested to Fadden once before—that
Artie should tax all incomes under £IOOO
a year and Joe all incomes over £IOOO.
The Good War
[From Canberra]
Few wars are delightful, but the one
raging in Australia’s national capital is
pleasing everyone—everyone but the
belligerents, that is. It’s a price-war. At
long last Canberra’s long-suffering house-
wives are getting service, civility and—
best of all —cut prices.
Used to the shocking loading freight-
rates have presumably been adding to
every tin of jam and every piece of cloth
coming into Canberra for years, house-
wives are staggered at reductions, particu-
larly on groceries,- bringing prices well
below those of Sydney and Melbourne.
Nearly every morning’s Canberra
“Times” carries display advertisements
giving details of the latest cuts. Budget-
conscious women are reading the morn-
ing paper as avidly as the London
society hostess reads the Court circular
in “The Times.”
For the first time in the capital’s history,
the public is caught up in the whirl of
angry price-cutting competition, and Can-
berra’s 34,000 residents are enjoying every
minute of it.
The war reached its peak last week
when at least three firms were passing-over
31b. lots of butter at 3s. a pound —a cut
of Is. 6yd. a pound. Best tea was going
at 6s. 2d. a pound (down Is. 2|d.). A
Goulburn firm, which recently built an
emporium at busy Civic Centre, set the
pace for the frenzied activity several days
ago by listing a price-reduction in
popular grocery-lines.
Canberra people know the shops can’t
go on cutting each other’s throats, but
they are determined to make the most of
it while the going’s good.
The price-war isn’t all. As there is no
restriction on late trading in the A.C.T.,
the newcomers have forced the old stores
to compete with them in late shopping
on Friday night. It’s obvious to all that
the advantage lies with the modern,
brightly lit Civic emporiums, filled King’s
Cross style with the bustle of people and
the clamor of blaring music.
One of the new stores has allowed
a visiting hypnotist to practise his art
behind its huge display-windows. First
it was a man who showed no pain when
needles were pushed through his cheeks,
and then a young lady in brief swimming-
costume who obligingly went to sleep on
a bed of nails.
The public is enjoying the whole per-
formance immensely.
Healthy Citizens
Addressing the Council for Adult
Education, which invariably provides the
aesthetic audience sympathetic towards
cultural aims, Dr. E. Cunningham Dax,
Victoria’s peripatetic and outspoken
Director of Mental Hygiene, suggested it
was, in effect, time the State looked-over
big subdivisions of land into housing
settlements with a critical eye for the
amenities, if any, offered with them.
He was able to explain that his profes-
sional interest was aroused by the
necessity for providing against mental ill-
health, particularly with regard to
schools, playing-fields, libraries, halls,
kindergartens and churches.
Travellers along Victorian roads won’t
be in any doubt about the towns at which
Dr. Dax hinted. They are the boom-
towns of the Latrobe Valley (Morwell,
Moe and Newborough), which has seen
enormous development; at Dandenong,
where big factories have preceded or
followed General Motors; at Sunshine,
the western suburb which has grown up
adjacent to new industries on the out-
skirts of Footscray ; in some areas of
newer Heidelberg ; and in the approaches
to Geelong from Melbourne.
In some of the more-rapidly-developed
areas of these towns, no thought at all
was given to social amenities, and a
typical instance is the playing-field (an
afterthought) at Newborough—a few
swings on the edge of the highway.
The lack of planning is apparent not
merely in the hastily built areas, but also
in the once-green Dandenongs, which the
Ferntree Gully shire authorities are
making a belated effort to save.
Dr. Dax’s concern is, of course, for
the mental health of the inhabitants of
the more depressing areas of these towns
which is reflected already in a lack of
civic spirit, evident in neglected gardens
and house-maintenance.
Dr. Dax speaks with the authority and
responsibility of a man who must provide
for the intake each year of 5000 new
mental patients.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TT was 2 a.m., and the taxi was
-*• hailed by two women, one carrying
a small suitcase, in the middle of a main
suburban street: “Could you drive us
straight to the hospital?” “0.K.,” said
the driver, “but I have other passengers.”
Two men were already in occupation.
The women being settled, the driver asked
what was the trouble. “My friend’s going
to have a baby,” replied the spokes-
woman. The male passengers suddenly
found that they were at their destination,
and alighted—probably preferring a long
walk to being present at the baby’s arrival
en route. —“Doric.”
❖ ♦♦♦
“Woodbine”: Sad as it is to think of
the Farmers and Graziers’ (Mort’s) huge
wool-store at Circular Quay, Sydney, the
smell of wool in the cold air of whose
several entrances has brought generation
after generation of city-dwellers a
nostalgia for the wide, open spaces, mak-
ing way for a new colossus of concrete
and glass, an insurance-company, it is
sadder to see truckload after truckload of
“Herald” newsprint rolling into the old
building in the meantime, a sign of the
universal change and decay: wool giving
way to bull.
*5-
“R. Kadiar”: At a war-time recreation-
hostel in North Queensland some of the
male staff confiscated a small issue of
laundered “dee-dees” and bras. A few
minutes later they were back on the line
impregnated with the stiffest possible
starch and carefully moulded into the
most curvaceous shapes. It was rather
unfortunate that the few brilliant emerald-
gre;en underpants (male) which graced a
\ine a few days later did not belong to
the perpetrator of the first atrocity. Ah,
me —fortunes of war!
“Jasby”: Popular magazines are
doing their best to cope with the current
thirst for knowledge. At Sydney’s Wyn-
yard station two posters side by side
proclaim competitively “Learn the Mys-
teries of Your Mind,” and “Know the
Secrets of Your Body!” Beside them
“Weekend” caters for another kind of
thirst with “Free Kisses.”
1 ❖ ❖ ❖
“Fair Mac”: Indoor TV-antennae may
find a buying public in the U.S. (B.
3/4/’57), where, according to report, all
and sundry can afford a television-set, but
I can't see the newfangled type catching-
on here —for a few years, anyway. Put
the thing inside? Why, anyone could pass
the house aqd not know you had a TV-
set!
❖ ❖ *
“Miss M.”: In those pre-war days when
one could park almost anywhere in
Sydney, a police-car with loudspeaker
undertook to help a woman trying to park
in a barely-large-enough space. They so
startled her that she gave the car ahead
a sharp bump. The booming voice gave
further advice. Thoroughly demoralised,
the woman reversed into the car behind.
In the ensuing hush, all pedestrians along
the block stopped to listen. The woman,
thinking only of escape, shot away from
the kerb and hit a tram. The policeman
at the microphone, momentarily demoral-
ised himself, asked the driver, “What's the
silly old b- done now?” Even as the
echoes rang down the hushed street, the
driver put. his foot down. The police-car
vanished fast, followed by such a roar of
laughter as comedians dream about.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Pineap”: Wishing to correct
magnesium-deficiency in my papaw-
plantation, 1 asked the chemist to supply
me with 201 b. of Epsom salts. Without
batting an eyelid he said, “I haven’t that
much on hand—but I can sell you a
good enema! ”
«$*
“Likker”: Three men have real reason
to complain of the high cost of beer:
two buyers seen leaving a hotel with a
gallon-jar after 11.30 p.m., who were
charged an extra £2 apiece in court; and
the licensee, who paid £l5 for selling it
after hours.
_*2» ♦> ♦>
“Geep”: Didn’t realise how reward-
ing a study of metropolitan road-maps
could be till “Chip” had his say
(B. 3/4/’57). My map of Perth and
environs is rather given to vain repeti-
tions ; George and James appear 19
times each, John 15, Edward
and William both 14, with Tom (10),
Dick (1) and Harry (2) almost nowhere.
We don’t mind mentioning Sydney (7),
Adelaide (6), Brisbane (4), Hobart (3),
and Melbourne (3), but, till Artie treats us
“ Don't bother me with tea when Tm Working on this complicated part ."
CHANGE OF HEART
“An American doctor predicts the develop-
ment of substitute-hearts of glass and rubber.”
Oh, throw away your heart of ice,
My cruel and my lovely lass;
Adopt the surgeons’ new device,
A heart of rubber and of glass.
A heart of rubber that will swell
Enough to hold our loves as one,
And glass, through which a man can tell
if he is cherished there alone.
And I shall keep you company,
And change my heart for surgical
Rubber to burst with jealousy,
‘ And glass to break,
as usual.
N.S.VV.
SWILLIAM.


better, no Canberra. We’ve Hobbs and
Sutcliffe, Young and Jackson, Jane and
Russell. Anthony has his Cleopatra, and
Anthony his Eden, but, alas, Adam has no
Eve, nor Darby, Joan.
“Geeboy”: “Sam” must be three years
astray on the Geelong Grammar School
centenary (B. 27/3/’57). School records
have it that Founders Day was June 24,
1857 (not 1854), when Sir Henry Barkley,
then Governor of Victoria, laid the
foundation-stone of the bluestone build-
ing (still standing and used by a firm of
wholesalers) which was the original
school.
“Doormat”: At a School of Army
Health in Victoria the secretary of one
of the large country hospitals said that at
least half the tonsillitis operations per-
formed in Victoria were unnecessary. He
said operating-theatre costs would drop
considerably if there were fewer of these
unwarranted operations. Maybe the uni-
versities should institute lectures for
young surgeons on cutting expenses.
❖ ❖
“Sackfair”: The young-’uns were hold-
ing an impromptu quiz-contest. I shot
at them: “Where is it both customary
and loyal to remain seated
while honoring the Queen?”
As all aged uncles know,
officers in the wardroom of
her Majesty’s ships remain
seated because in the days
of low-built frigates the
patriot who leapt to his feet
to honor the Loyal Toast was
likely to brain himself on the
beams overhead. Scarcely had
I uttered the last word of the
question when six voices
yelled the answer: “When
they play ‘The Queen’ at a
drive-in theatre!”
“J.R.”: A Maryborough (Q.) man
doing a spot of gardening while his son
used a rotary motor-mower a few yards
away felt a sting on the leg, attributed it
to an insect and took no further notice.
Later he found that his trousers were
nailed to the calf of his leg by a two-
inch nail flung by the mower.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.A.T.”: First week in the U.S. I
wandered into an eatery: “Tea, please.”
“How would yo’all like it?” “White,
please” . . . “Sorry,” drawled Lu Belle,
“we only have black and green.” I settled
for coffee.
♦2* »;«
“M.W.P.”: Revisiting Melbourne after
nearly a quarter of a century, and a
casual re-reading of Den, I’m prompted
to wonder what the Bloke must be
worth today. It must be over forty years
since Doreen’s uncle gave him the
orchard, and judging by the way
surrounding farms have been absorbed
by the city maybe he sold it for build-
ing-sites long ago and retired to a place
like Balwyn, which has seen just such a
thing happen in our time. ;
“8.A.K.”: Alas that “Keg” is so
many years out in his assumption that
I am a minor (B. 10/4/’57). I can prove
my senility; I can recall the days when
tram-tickets here in Sydney bore
limericks on the reverse side ; such geTns
as:
A trammie who’s up to smart wheezes
On notes for his pay always freezes;
For by folding in two
He doubles his screw;
Reopening finds it increases.
As for trammies welcoming a fiver to
change in the days when the maximum
fare was fivepence —who had a fiver in
those days?
“P.0.M.C.”: If “B.A.K.’s” a minor (B.
10/4/’57) I’m a babe-in-arms (preferably
Marilyn Monroe’s). Also, if Sydney trams
were paying when “Keg” pulled the
tickets, he’s no chicken, either.
“Sticker”: You need to keep the name
and address well down to the bottom-
left if you intend to use the P.M.G.’s
Antarctic two-bob shocker, all blue. The
enormous sheet of paper seems to cover
half the envelope and is by far the
biggest Commonwealth stamp yet issued,
besides being the only one so far not to
bear the name “Australia.” It should keep
the tongues of junior typists dry and put
a brake on their nattering for months to
come.
♦> ❖ ❖
“Maitri”: A traveller returned from
a tour through Southern Asia reckons
that the days when the bulk of the native
population learned the Three R’s at
mission-schools, from monks at the
temple or by the roadside from itiner-
and teachers, have gone for good. In
Java, he saw students who couldn’t find
accommodation inside university-build-
ings lined-up eight-deep outside the
windows in the hope of picking-up at
least a bit of the knowledge handed out
by the lecturers.
* * *l*
“Geep”: No less than the W.A. Chief
Justice has told a 41-year-old house-
breaker to pull himself together—he was
too old to expect to become a success-
ful criminal. “Too old at forty”—it’s the
same story in business everywhere.
♦j,
“E. & 0.E.”: This year is the centenary
of the Indian Mutiny ; in both India and
Pakistan they regard it as “a year of
destiny.” At Lahore and some other
Pakistani cities the numerals “1957”
appear during the night, painted on walls,
and followed by a question-mark. As
these figures are in Urdu few Westerriers
notice them, but those who are able to
read them do so with some gravity.
“Hist.”: Over-the-back-fence: —•
“That Mrs. S. at Number Thirty-seven told me
she got a new watch for her birthday because
she’s thirty-seven, too.”
“Mrs. B. at Number Forty ought to word her
old man about that. She’s forty next month.”
“What about Mrs. L■ at Number Fifty-
eight?”
“Claims she’s forty-seven . . . And the
rest!”
“Looks like we’re out of it —Thirty-two and
Thirty-four.”
“Add half as much again to thirty-two and
it’d about cover me. Hubby’s fifty-five, Don’ll
be twenty-three next birthday—there you are,
it works! Fifty-five less twenty-three is thirty-
two.”
“And ’Thirty-four was the year Bill and I
meant to get married, but there was that trouble
at the works and we put it off a year.”
“Ever try adding up the numbers of the
hymns in cnurch, you know, while you’re wait-
ing for the minister? Once they came to just
the year we were in.”
“I’m poor at adding in my head, but there’s
no doubt figures can tell you a lot if you look
at them right.”


IT surprised mo to learn that
marriage at sea by ship’s captain has
followed keel-hauling and the flogging of
seamen into the catalogue of prohibited
cruelties. A couple of days later I read
that a Chinese bride had been married in
an airliner, 8000 ft. above Formosa, to an
airline official, the ceremony being per-
formed by the plane’s captain. Marriage
at sea was desirable and often essential
when voyages took most of a year,
but biology hasn’t yet made a move to
catch up on jet-planes. Maybe they’re
looking forward to trips to the moon. —
“Doynest.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: A social evening; the
talented guests obliged with “classic”
songs and music. The quiet young
country bloke’s turn came. “Can’t do any
of those things,” he confessed. “But,”
quickly exposing the upper half of his
anatomy, “I’ll show the muscles in me
back.” DumbfoundetL guests later
admitted they were wonh seeing.
*>
“Tom Trout” (London): Nothing more
readily sets U-speaking English villagers
reaching for fhe shotgun than an attempt
by the council to put a number on The
Manor or Rose Cottage. Even in big
cities, quite new business premises shun
the degrading numerals, and where they
have succumbed to this modernity the
sequence would baffle an electronic com-
puter. They might run in order up one
side of the road and back down the other,
or jump back to the beginning for another
start; or possibly (but not probably) have
the evens on one side and the odds on the
other, but somewhere in the middle a
Victorian jerry-builder’s “Terrace” will
opt out of the general scheme to display
its own “1-2-3.”
“5 G.R.”: Birdwood’s selection of a
hundred-odd Australian subalterns from
the Ist A.I.F. for the Indian Army
dismayed some diehards, but at the finish
one was a lieut.-general, two were major-
generals, many were brigadiers or
colonels ; among them a humorist —in the
last war he commanded a training-group
of many languages, creeds, breeds and
haircuts. His group had no title, so he
wrote direct to the Adjutant-General and
split Delhi with laughter. “Sir,” he wrote,
“1 cannot hope to obtain esprit de corps
among this mixed bunch until they have
a common title, a common tie. We are
not Royal, Loyal, or Somebody’s own.
For Gawd’s sake give us a title.” He
got one, based appropriately on the
Indian general-service medal.
♦> ♦♦♦ ❖
“Kelvin”: Billeting of Australian
Nursing Sisters in a disused house of ill-
fame (B. 3/4/’57) reminds me of my own
Army days at Mt. Isa. The Isa opened its
heart; officers were entertained gracefully
by the mining-executive and pro-
fessional mob, while full privates and
corporals romped joyously with the good-
mannered and sociable townsfolk. For
the sergeants and warrant-officers things
were bleak till there arrived at the mess a
note from some daughters of joy at The
Gap, about a mile out of town. Members
of the mess were invited, in terms which
made it crystal-clear that any hanky-
panky either amateur or professional was
out, to an evening at one of the cottages
at which several of the ladies would
combine as hostesses. The night fixed
was the one before the mines-payday . . .
Those who accepted returned to camp
with glowing reports of a pleasant
evening of dancing to radio, bridge, a
slap-up supper and lashings of bottled
beer, scarce as hens’ teeth. As the sar’-
major said, to the delight of all, it was
“like a home away from home.”
♦> ❖
“Kenyas”: The new boarder said he
was Scotch, so we asked how he came
by his Irish name?- His answer opened up
an avenue: “My grandmother came
from Ireland.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mallee-ite”: Add to the list of catchy
bakers’ names (B. 3/4/’57) one I was
familiar with when I lived in the Mallee
town of Sea Lake, Vic., whose.cart carried
the legend, “A. Butcher, Baker.”
♦t« ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: There is concern in England
over the increase in migration (B.
3/4/’57), but'in the days of the first Queen
Bess, in an effort to reduce the popula-
tion, an Act of Parliament set-out the
types of Englishmen who might well
leave their country for their country’s
good:—
All persons calling themselves Schollers
going about begging, all Seafaring men pre-
tending losses of their Shippes or goods on
the sea going about either begging or using
any subtile Crafte or unlawful games or
playes, or fayhing themselves to have know-
ledge in Phisiognomye, Palmestry, or other
like crafty Scyence all wandring persons
and common Laborers being persons able in
bodye using loytering and refusing to
worcke for such reasonable wages as is
taxed or commonly given in such Parts
where such persons do or shall happen to
dwell or abide.
“Doormat”: Saw a front-page head-
line “Tiger to the Rescue” and read on
with bated breath -. . . But the “tiger” was
only a “well-known Richmond foot-
baller” who swam no more than a couple
of hundred yards to rescue a mere boy
in difficulties.
(,Society continued on page 56)
THEORETICALLY SOUND
“A Sydney judge has ruled that a man may
lawfully spank his wife.”
Nature knew something when she
endowed
Him with muscles, for thus she allowed
That her favorite, Man the Majestic,
Could use ’em in conjugal strife,
On a fractious and mutinous wife
In restoring the balance domestic.
The primordial dad, it is sure,
Made good use of the bicepal cure,
. And a leathery hoof, too, I’ll warrant,
In convincing his chattel that he
Was the boss of the board, the King
G
And she mightn’t have thought it
abhorrent!
We’re now more enlightened. The Law
Says you mustn’t land one on her jaw,
Or pull her around by her tresses.
You can’t even emulate champs
Of the fight-game by blacking her
lamps —
And all this, they reckon, progress is!
That’s why disobedient wives
Laugh these days at the old “bunch of
fives”
Whenever with fist they’re confronted.
It’s sad for a hubby to find
His divine right to Limbo’s consigned,
That his ancient authority’s blunted.
Yet he needn’t completely despair
That his sovereignty’s worn so
threadbare;
He still has one shot in his locker.
There’s one little bit of her left
(Provided he’s quick and he’s deft )
Where he’s legally able to sock her.
Quite a number of smacks he can land,
Using only, of course, open hand
(The last privilege that he’s heir to).
He can grab her, and over his knee,
Lam into her —like this, you see;
There’s only one snag : will he dare to-?
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


THIS WAS TOBRUK
By G. MAKIN
At sunset on an April day
We halted our retreat to look
At the white town beside the bay ;
And knew not then we were to play
The desperate drama of Tobruk.
The bluest sea in all the world,
The harbor’s narrow arm that curled
By the white buildings of the town.
And on the desert’s dusty floor,
In reckless mad abandon thrown,
The broken implements of war.
In wadis deep and open flats
We dug like moles and lived like rats,
A ragged and unshaven band.
We learned to live and work with Death
Standing so often close at hand
We felt the fanning of his breath.
We watched the swarming Stukas fly
Masters of all the desert sky,
Breaking their ranks to bank and dive,
Hurling their death on those below;
And, shocked and shaken, but alive,
Through choking dust-clouds watched them go.
The singing shrapnel fell like hail,
As the bright tracer’s fiery trail
Leaped upward to retaliate.
With long black muzzles pointed high
The heavies joined the hymn of hate,
And flared and thundered at the sky.
Month by long month the summer passed.
Welcome reliefs poured in at last.
Sea-borne they came out of the night.
Aboard destroyers we withdrew,
Gaunt scarecrows weary from the fight,
Who felt we could have seen it through.
Time’s restless fingers, undenied,
Have turned the page and closed the book,
But, we, who were so sorely tried,
Remember, with a glow of pride,
This was our chapter; this —Tobruk.


POLITICAL POINTS
The N. S. Wales talking-shop, after
alternately rocking round the clock and
closing-down for lack of business and
rocking round the clock, has closed down
for lack of business until June 27.
• •
Bread has gone up a farthing in Bris-
bane. That’ll probably be the end of
one-brand bakeries.
• •
Potatoes and onions were still the
dominating influence in the C-series cost-
of-living indicator when the Common-
wealth Statistician issued his figures for
the March quarter last week. Had
quarterly adjustments still been in force
the drop in the index-figure would have
meant a fall of 2s. in the basic wage
in Sydney, Brisbane and Hobart; 6s. in
Melbourne and 7s. in Adelaide. In
Perth, where spud prices have not been
subject to the violent fluctuations experi-
enced in the other capitals, the wage
would have risen 3s.
Since last September the Statistician has
also been compiling an index-figure which
ignores potatoes and onions. In Septem-
ber it was about 4 per cent, lower than
the C-series index. The two are now
almost identical.
• •
In N. S. Wales, where since 1955 wages
under State awards have been auto-
matically adjusted on the c.-0.-l. figures,
the drop of 2s. in the State basic wage
reduces the gap between State and Federal
rates to 15s. Chief gainer from the fall
will be the N. S. Wales Government,
which applies automatic adjustments to
all its employees whether under Stater or
Federal awards.
• •
It’s hard tef say who’s behind whom in
Queensland Labor politics. The Q.C.E.
was dead against one-brand petrol-
stations but now wants Gair to withdraw
his Oil Bill. The Corns, were shoulder-
to-shoulder with the Q.C.E. in the fight
against Gair, but they’re backing him
against the Q.C.E. on oil. Deputy-Leader
Duggan votes against Gair at the Q.C.E.
but with him in the House.
• •
There'll be a Commonwealth Prime
Ministers’ conference in London open-
ing on June 26 and lasting about a fort-
night. When Macmillan announced this
in the Commons Opposition-leader
Gaitskell asked whether the question of
Britain’s relations with the free-trade area
in Europe would be discussed. He was
told that it was not customary to dis-
close in advance what subjects would be
under discussion. All the same, if that
subject isn’t discussed the meeting may
just as well not be held.
• •
During the debate on the Universities
Grants Bill—to winch several members
on both sides of the House made intelli-
gent and useful contributions—Cairns,
Labor member for Yarra, quoted some
informative figures On the sums spent on
students at British and Australian univer-
sities. Birmingham University spends
£452 per student per year ; Bristol, £4BO ;
Leeds, £438 ; Sheffield, £451 ; Edinburgh,
£343 ; Nottingham, £325. The average
for the six universities is £422 ; the
average for the six Australian universities
is only £284.
• •
Eisenhpwer says America will assist
Jordan in the event of an attack by
Israel or by Communists. Jordan’s chief
danger at the moment seems to be
partition by other Arab countries. Ike’s
insurance doesn’t seem to cover that.
• •
A Sydney paper, reporting that the
Sydney Water Board had reduced its
sewerage-rate from to 9d. in the £,
commented that this would cost the
board £222,800 a year. Like fun it will!
The new valuations issued by the Valuer-
General in the last year or so have given
the Water Board a princely windfall.
Most municipal councils cut their rate
so that on the new valuations property-
owners would still pay much the same as
before in municipal rates. The Water
Board continued to collect the old rates
on the new valuations —in some cases
home-owners had their bill doubled. The
ha’penny cut is a mere crumb.
• •
Gloomy predictions about the N. S.
Wales coal-industry don’t seem to square
up with production figures. Output for
the 12 weeks ended April 6 was 3,630,700
tons, which was 538,000 tons higher than
for the corresponding period last year.
• •
“Stromlo”: The real snag in the tea
business in Australia is retention of price-
control in Queensland and S.A., which
keeps down the quality of the most-widely-
sold brands to the level at which a profit
can be made at maximum price permitted
in those States. The big packers who
pack for the whole Commonwealth are
buying more and more of the cheaper
Indonesian teas to blend with the superior
Ceylon leaf. In the States without con-
trols better-quality Ceylon teas are selling
more and more at slightly higher prices.
• •
Victoria is still holding the lead in TV-
licences established over New South
Wales during the Olympic Games.
Official figures at April 16: Victoria,
23,650; N. S Wales, 13,440.
• • 1
Coal is one commodity which has
become cheaper in the last year or so.
Increased mechanisation and the clos-
ing of uneconomic pits are the chief
reasons ; another factor is the growing
awareness throughout the industry that
costs had to come down if coal was to
meet the threat of competition from
other fuels. All this is beginning to pay-
off. In the bad, wild post-war years of
the industry the South Australian Rail-
ways converted a lot of their locomotives
to oil-burning. Now they’re switching
’em back to coal by the dozen; Oil has
risen in price and coal is once again
cheaper. What’s just as t important, they
can rely on delivery—which they could
not do at the time the change was made.
• •
Government parties are treating the
Joske divorce bill as a non-party measure,
leaving their members free to vote as they
please. The A.L.P. has not yet announced
its attitude but is expected to take similar
action.
• •
“M.W.”: Since we lost our Legation
in Cairo, Australia has been without a
listening-post in the Middle East. Sug-
gestions are being considered for the
establishment of diplomatic missions in
Beirut (Lebanon), and in Istanbul
(Turkey). Cutler, V.C., who was Minister
m Cairo when Nasser grabbed the canal,
has been mentioned unofficially for the
Beirut job. Istanbul might be more
difficult to fill, but at least one disting-
uished Australian who was wounded by a
Turkish bullet on Gallipoli is known to
be keen on selection.
• •
Yet another committee, this time a sub-
committee of Federal Cabinet, is to study
the nation’s transport problems, while at
the same time the Federal Government
subsidises the initial survey for a
standard-gauge line between Albury and
Melbourne. The motive is excellent, the
provision of an efficient and effective
transport-system to reduce Australia’s
costs problem, but the idea isn’t new.
If the sub-committee decides to start by
reading all the reports which have been
written on the subject during the last
half-century it won’t have time to get
down to work within the lifetime of the
present Parliament.
• •
“Mugga Way”: Something of a smack
in the eye for the “knockers” of Parlia-
mentary broadcasts was administered by
retiring “Hansard” chief Bill Campbell.
He said that the broadcasting of Parlia-
ment had been accompanied by “a dis-
tinct rise” in the standard of debate, and
that the general public had gained from
the chance of hearing debates. Many
political observers agree with him —but it
makes one shudder to reflect what the
standard must have been like before
broadcasting.


PUNCHING-BAG
Two of Cahill’s wandering minstrels —
beg pardon, Ministers —Landa (Housr
ing) and McGrath (Public Works) sailed
for San Francisco on the Mariposa on
Saturday. Cahill went on board to see
’em off and gave Landa an umbrella.
Teacup-readers are pondering the signi-
ficance of the gift.
• •
The Gair-Bukowski slow-motion duel
which has been dragging on like a radio-
serial reached another of its periodical
climaxes on Thursday when the Q.C.E.,
by 35 votes to 27, passed a motion calling
on Gair “to appear before the central
executive to show cause why he should
not be expelled from the party.” The
motion was proposed by State A.L.P.
secretary Schmella, and during the discus-
sion Bukowski, chairman of the Q.C.E.,
stepped down from the chair to speak
in favor of it. Gair defended his failure
to introduce three weeks’ annual leave on
the ground that the time was inoppor-
tune while the State still had insufficient
money for housing and other urgent pro-
jects. He was supported by Deputy-
Premier Duggan, who had recently
opposed him on the Oil Bill.
The Queensland Premier has won
earlier tussles with the Q.C.E. on this
issue and has been able to carry caucus
with him, although only by a narrow
majority—26-21 at the last vote, about a
month ago. His reaction to Thursday’s
challenge was to call a meeting of caucus
for last night. The special Q.C.E. meet-
ing at which he has been ordered to say
his piece is scheduled for today.
• •
On the eve of the showdown it looked
as if almost all Gair’s Ministers and most
of his caucus would support his stand
against the Q.C.E. Some were motivated
by a conviction that Parliamentary
authority must be upheld ; others by the
knowledge that a general election with a
split in the party would mean lost seats.
Qn the Q.C.E. side doubts were develop-
ing, with talk of a back-stairs revolt
against Bukowski in the A.W.U.
• •
Chief Secretary Rylah was telling the
Victorian Assembly that the C. 1.8, was
investigating the circumstances in
a revolver subsequently used by gun-
man O’Meaily had been smuggled into
Pentridge jail. Deputy Opposition-leader
Shepherd interjected. Hansard report*
the exchange:
Mr. Shepherd: A howitzer could be
taken in there and you wouldn’t know.
Mr. Rylah: I should be happy if the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition would
convey to me any suggestion he might
have regarding how to stop howitzers
being taken in.
fc • " •
While the N. S. Wales police are in-
vestigating the tworbob “car-minding’*
racket in Sydney the Minister for Air
might explain why the Department of
Civil Aviation now charges a two-bob
parking-fee for motorists farewelling or
meeting friends at Mascot and Essendon
airports.
• •
“Quorum”: Immigration Minister
Townley has, perhaps unwittingly, scored
the smartest bit of national propaganda
seen in recent weeks. Instead of seeing
first the usual nondescript wharves and
gasometers, the nearly-6000 New Aus-
tralians will be put down right in the
heart of Australiana—at Wagga. The
migrants—42oo of them Hungarian
refugees—will be put at ease immedi-
ately ; a surprising number of Europeans
have heard of Wagga Wagga, but few
seriously believe it is real.
From now until the end of June Wagga
airport will be an “international air-
terminal” to cater for more than 80
chartered airliners bringing European
migrants to Australia. Ten flights this
month will bring 800 Hungarians, and
May and June flights will carry another
3400 Hungarians, 1100 Germans, and
600 Austrians. From Wagga the new-
comers will go by bus to Bonegilla
migrant-reception centre near Albury.
.The first plane-load arrived on Monday.
• •
Zhukov has conceded that Britain has
just as much right as Russia to carry
out nuclear tests. Australian Com-
munists and fellow-travellers don’t seem
to think so.
• •
“Collins-street”: After forty years:
John Cain’s age, which is 70, is a sore point
with the Victorian Opposition and, no doubt,
with their leader himself, and it was responsible
for him at long .last biting the Parliamentary
dust.
Cain has been 40 years in the Assembly, the
last 20 as Labor leader, and his knowledge
of Standing Orders and the liberties a canny
fellow can take with procedure is the widest
in the House, but it has given him a por-
tentous and proprietorial air as he surveys the
Chamber —even over the Speaker. His (prob-
ably unconscious) impertinences to Speaker
McDonald, a stripling in his forties with only
a few years’ Parliamentary experience, culmin-
ated, after persistent warnings, in his sus-
pension—his first in 40 years.
McDonald, who has had to put up with two
years of Cain’s heavy seniority, would not have
been human if he had not offered, when the
Government charitably suggested the motion
for the suspension should be withdrawn —
“Because of the great age of the Leader of the
Opposition 1 am prepared to hear an
apology.”
And Cain, naturally enough, replied:
“Great age be Mowed! What have Ito
apologise for?”
So out he went, though he had been prepared
to apologise until McDonald mentioned his
maturity.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Former S.A. Supreme Court judge Sir
Frederick .William Richards, who has
died in Adelaide at 87, was born at
Gawler (S.A.) and went to England to
complete his schooling. He remained
there as a teacher for a time, then in
1891 took-up law, gaining his LL.B. with
honors at London University in 1894
and his Doctorate of Laws in 1896.
Returning to S.A. soon afterwards he was
appointed associate to the then S.A.
Chief Justice, Sir Samuel Way, in 1901,
and in 1908 was made S.A.’s first
Parliamentary draftsman; in 1916 he
was appointed Crown Solicitor. In 1922
he took silk, and in 1925 and 1926 was
acting-judge of the Supreme Court. His
appointment to the Supreme Court
Bench came in 1927, and he was senior
puisne-judge when he retired in 1945 ; he
was knighted the following year. The
son of a Methodist minister, he was
also well known as a church-worker and
lay-preacher.
© •
“H.W.8.”: Auckland city councillor
D. M. Robinson is a man who doesn’t
hesitate to spend his time, and his own
money, to back his opinions on public
welfare. On the Auckland and Metro-
politan Drainage Board he vigorously
opposed schemes which would, he said,
PROGRESSIVE COUNCILLOR, N.Z.
pollute Auckland’s two beautiful harbors
with sewage-outfall; then, V/hen he
became president of the Metropolitan
Drainage Board last year, he was respon-
sible for the Waitemata Harbor Brown’s
Island scheme being stopped. Using his
own capital lavishly, he imported experts
of world reputation, to report on the situa-
tion, and, from their recommendations,
had a system 'of oxidation-ponds for
purification approved for the first time in
New Zealand. This method is now.
accepted as the most economical and
efficient one known to science.
Here are some figures:
Estimated capital cost of the original
Brown’s Island scheme, £l5 million.
Ultimate annual cost, £1 million.
Estimated cost of the Manakau oxida-
tion-ponds, £9 million. Annual cost,
£600,000. Saving in capital cost, £6 million.
Annual cost for 40 years, £500,000.
The ponds will utilise a microscopic
form of algae, which produces oxygen by
photosynthesis. And this, too, will be
revenue-producing: the algae, which is
rich in protein (it has 24 times the protein-
content of soya-beans) will be harvested
in quantities up to 40,000 tons annually,
and up to 60 per cent, will go to Australia
for cattle-feed. Possible revenue from
this has been calculated at £500,000 a year
—enough to pay for the scheme’s annual
cost.
Robinson, who is managing-director of
a clothing concern, is also a member of
the University College Council, the Royal
Society of Health, the American Academy
of Nutrition, and an honorary member of
the Institute of Sewage Purification. He
has also held a couple of motor-cycle
world records for seven years.
• ®
Met at Fremantle, Marios Zafirou, new
Consul-General for Greece. He takes the
post in Australia after Consular experi-
ence in Russia, Yugoslavia and Turkey.
A round-faced, genial chap,' he said he
hoped Greek tradesmen would come out
here when migration regulations permit.
• •
Tuisko Turso Seppelt, whose friends
called him Mick, was the last survivor of
the nine sons of Benno Seppelt before he
died, at 65, in Melbourne (B. 17/4/’57),
where he had been established as manager
of the Victorian branch of the great
wine-firm for 36 years. A practical man
as well as an administrator, he had run
and jumped over the barrels at Seppelts-
field as a child, and for many years went
back at vintage-time to supervise the
making of the wine. In . later years his
efforts on production had been on an
amateur scale —with bulls, sheep, and
vegetables at times, on his country
property at Mt. Martha, about an hour’s
run from Melbourne, round the Bay.
He was well known in Melbourne as a
clubman and racegoer, but better still
as a most generous donor to charities;
and he was one of the early advocates,
and remained one of the most active
supporters, of the Mallee summer-camp
for boys, an organisation sponsored by
Melbourne Lord Mayors which gives
country kids a seaside holiday. Very few
of knew what T.T. signified.
Tuisko Turso means lion-hearted in one
of the Germanic tongues.
RESIDENT CONDUCTOR, O.
Rudolf Pekarek, now resident-con-
ductor of the Queensland Symphony
Orchestra, is remembered in his native
Prague chiefly for his founding of the
F.O.K. Orchestra, which subsequently
became the Prague Symphony Orchestra.
He studied oboe, violin and conducting
at the Prague Conservatorium, played
oboe in the Philharmonic Orchestra
(Savoka) in Prague after graduation, and
later became musical director and con-
ductor. In 1933 he founded the F.O.K.
Orchestra, which began with 42 players
and expanded to 75. He put in four
years of War II as a German prisoner,
working in Polish mines, escaped in
1944, and joined the Czech partisans. At
the end of the war he returned to Prague
as director of the Army Arts Ensemble
(consisting of an 80-piece symphony
orchestra and a 120-voice choir), and in
1946 was invited to take it to France and
Poland, where it appeared some 40 times.
Pekarek has been around a bit since he
came out here, too: resident-conductor
of the Westralian Symphony Orchestra
(which grew in strength and quality under
his direction) for four years, he has been
guest : conductor of A.B.C. symphony
orchestras in all States, and has directed
festivals of music in Western Australia,
Queensland, and South Australia. He’s
a keen stamp-collector, and also paints
and takes photographs.
• •'
William James Duncan, who wrote the
fine “Fighter Pilot” article in this issue,
is well qualified to write on the subject.
A Duntroon product, he joined the Air
Force in 1924, and in 1927 had his first
contact with New Guinea, walking up
and down a lot of hills there in search of
a suitable air-strip. He left the Service in
1932 and went back to New Guinea,
where he did “a bit of mining, a bit of
planting” until 1939, when he returned to
the R.A.A.F. fold. During the war his
experience was varied and wide: staff-
work in Australia, operational command
in the Middle East, followed by a period


as R.A.A.F. L.O. there, C.O. at Rich-
mond, and saw the end of the war in the
Islands as S.O. Administration, First
Tactical Air'Force. He retired with the
rank of Group-Captain, went to China for
U.N.R.R.A., and went back again for a
couple of years as adviser to Dr. Soong,
Governor of Canton. An interesting
experience, terminated by political events
in that part of the world. A short spell
in the R.A.A.F. again (’5O-51), and he
settled down at his present address, Mont-
ville, about 75 miles from Brisbane, where
he grows avocados. He’s 54.
• •
New U.S. Ambassador to New Zea-
land, Francis Henry Russell; is a Massa-
chusetts lawyer who has attended world-
conferences at San Francisco (1945) and
London (1946). Was U.S.A. deputy-chief
at Tel Aviv 1952-55, followed by a year
as special-assistant to Secretary of State
John Foster Dulles.
• •
J. C. Reid, senior lecturer in English
at Auckland University (N.Z.), used his
United States Foundation grant to browse
among the unpublished Coventry Patmore
papers at the libraries of Boston College
and Princeton University. The result is
what London “Times” calls “a monu-
mental work covering most aspects of the
poet’s literary output and the more im-
portant events of his life.” The “Times”
reviewer of The Mind and Art of
Coventry Patmore goes on to say that the
real interest of the book lies in the
author’s analysis of the whole range of
Patmore’s poetry, linked with the poet’s
highly individual views about love and
religion.
• •
Leader of the N.S.W. Country Party,
Lieut.-Colonel the Hon. Michael
Frederick Bruxner, D. 5.0., on the retire-
ment of editor-of-debates H. C. Behan
(17/4/’5.7), in the State House:
I doubt whether all hon. members know of
Mr. Behan’s early career. I learned of it ■ >nly
yesterday, quite quietly, when he recounted to
us that he started life on a cattle-property away
out In the northern part of Australia. When
it came to killing a beast for rations, about every
three weeks, the first thing they did was to
remove the brand, and also the ear! No
wonder he is so well able to erase some of the
little difficulties that intrude into hon.
members’ speeches. Then, he told us, he started
to wander southward in charge of a rough mob
of cattle. He continued his journey south long
enough to reach Sydney, and he has been here
ever since. It is no wonder he has made such
a success of his office: doubtless his early train-
ing gave him the easy way of handling a rough
and unruly mob. I mention this only because
we have the kindest personal thoughts >of Mr.
Behan.
• •
“C.A.A.”: Rabbi Jacob Danglow,
C.M.G., 0.8. E., V.D., chief minister of
St. Kilda Hebrew Congregation since
1905, is due to retire soon. A Londoner,
educated at Jews’ and University Col-
leges, London, and Melbourne University,
he was an Army padre, in both wars, and
is prominent in many fields, including
the Victorian Deaf School (vice-president)
and the Boy Scout movement (on Federal
council). He has seen many changes in
Melbourne ; in particular, a remarkable
enlargement of his congregation; in
general, the spreading and quickening of
a city, with the series of adjustments and
minor revolutions inescapably associated
with the process. But, he says, he has
seen no evidence of serious anti-Semitism.
• •
W. Garth Symington was keenly
interested in stock and the land when
he was a young fellow, so when his father,
A. G. Symington, was transferred from
Sydney to Perth in 1933 as manager for
W. D. and H. O. Wills, the lad joined a
pastoral firm.
Recently, at 40, he moved into Elder,
Smith’s top executive bracket when he
became assistant-manager in South Aus-
tralia ; his work mainly concerns stock
and branches. He worked in Elder,
Smith’s Westralian offices before and
after War 11, was with the 2/16th Bn.
from 1940 to 1945, reached the rank of
Major, served in Syria, New Guinea and
at Balik Papan, and commanded the
WOOL-FIRM EXECUTIVE, S.A.
battalion during the Shaggy Ridge opera-
tion in the Ramu Valley. A shellburst
in Syria landed him in hospital and into
matrimony. His wife, Kathleen, then an
Army Sister, is a daughter of the late
George Campbell Smith, who surveyed
most of Tasmania’s east coast. They
bought the ring in Tel Aviv, married in
Launceston, and have three daughters
and a son.
“Standby”: Robert Grant died sud-
denly in Mackay (Q.) this month. An
outstanding and lovable man, family
doctor and family friend to many, his
life was .devoted to service—service to
humanity and service to his country. He
served in two world wars. Born at
Mackay 63 years ago, he graduated from
Queensland University with a Bachelor
of Arts degree, went on to study Medicine
at Sydney University, and there won a
scholarship to Edinburgh University.
His studies at Edinburgh were interrupted
by World War I.
He joined the Black Watch as an
infantry officer, served in Nairobi, East
Africa, and, after the war, picked up the
threads again at Edinburgh, becoming a
Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons
—one of the few to do so at the first
attempt. After experience in London
and Hull he came back to Australia and
went into practice at Mackay. He served
as an M.O. with the A.I.F. throughout
World War 11, and was at Milne Bay
when the Japs landed there to meet their
first defeat.
After the war he reopened his Mackay
practice. As Repatriation M.O. there he
always had a soft spot for Old Diggers
of each war, listened to everyone’s
troubles, and went out of his way to
ease them. It was typical of him that
he learned to speak Italian so that he
could make things easier for his patients
among the many Italian sugarfarmers in
the district.
• •
The new German Minister to represent
West Germany at Wellington (N.Z.) in
succession to Erich Boltze will be Dr.
Herbert Noehring.
w •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 58, William Stanley Leslie, head-
.fnaster of Barker College from 1933 until his
death, chairman of the Headmasters’ Confer-
ence of N.S.W., and for nearly 20 years chair-
man of the Teachers’ Central Registry.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), A. R. Galbraith, who
retired as city-engineer there in 1941 and went
to live in Perth (where he had earlier held the
same job), going back to New Zealand last
January. An Englishman, he had been director
of Public Works in Zanzibar, superintending
civil-engineer for the Royal Navy in War I,
and at one time worked for B.H.P.
In Melbourne, at 63, Harry Dunn, insurance-
superintendent with the M.L.C. and well-known
sporting identity. Footballer, runner and
wrestler in younger days, later he wrote on
sport, mainly boxing, for Melbourne “Sun.”
In Sydney, at 81, John (Jock) Stewart, Labor
member of the N.S.W. Legislative Council since
1941. From 1941 to 1950 he had been general-
secretary of N.S.W. branch of the Australian
Labor Party.
In Perth, at 100, Mrs. Louisa Mary Glover,
who was born at Oxford (U.K.) and arrived
in Perth in 1886.
At Bushey, Hertfordshire (Eng.), at 61, Frank
Chester, English Test-cricket umpire. Sir
Donald Bradman rated him “the greatest
umpire under whom I played.” He retired in
1955 after officiating in 48 Tests. But for the
loss of his right arm below the elbow at
Salonika in World War I, which cut short his
active participation in the game, he may have
become a Test-batsman himself.
At Carterton (N.Z.), at 74, Reginald Walter
Roydhouse. Back in 1901 he helped his father
run the old Carterton “Observer,” and became
editor of the “Dailv News” (later a weekly).


ABORIGINALITIES
BACK TO THE BOTTLE
nnHERE is nothing like being away
from something for a while to notice
any change in it. I’d been away from
fishing for a long time —and, boy, did I
notice a change!
At about 4 p.m. last Tuesday, on the
jetty at Bobbin Head, near Sydney, there
were eight people fishing. All used rods,
One with a nine-guinea reel. Seven of
them would have been under 12 years
old —and one of these had a canvas stool.
The eighth, a man about 30, used a
late-model rod with a pistol-grip. He
was dressed in a pin-striped navy-blue
suit, and he wore a tie, too.
So much for statistics; so much for
atomic fishin’. v
The gear I carried down the jetty
seemed a bit out of date. There was no
rod. Not even a reel. There was a cane
fishing-basket with a couple of prawn-
shells clinging in its crevices, giving off
a ghost of a scent of the last holiday.
There was a tin with hooks in it for
everything from ’coota to yellowtail;
sinkers; and a large squid keeping a
fixed stare on my tea-thermos.
There was also the fishing-line—wound
a bottle.
I don’t think the young anglers on
the jetty, or the bloke in the striped suit,
had ever seen such primitive gear. They
are in pretty good company, though;
even Mr. Walton doesn’t mention this
equipment in his Compleat Angler.
For any other bottle-addicts who may
still be around, I am pleased to record
that, baited with a choice piece of squid,
and weighted with a nice running-shot
sinker, the line went out a good 70 yds.
with the first cast, dropping with a com-
forting plonk, and gaining startled looks
from a near-by luxury-cruiser.
“Gosh!” said one of the rod-men on
the jetty, and my cup was full.
TYTONE of us caught anything to. brag
about, but I th.nk I got a couple of
converts.
So, for the benefit of members of
the younger generation, or those who
wear ties fishing, who might not have
been at Bobbin Head jetty last Tuesday
afternoon, I’d like to set down here a few
general directions.
First catch your bottle. Beer-bottles
are a bit large. Odd-shaped wine-bottles
might make good lampshade-stands, but
are no good for this. What you need —
"I just felt I'd like t’ Wear the old Buna-Cona uniform again, Wally.”
unless you’re going for the heavier stuff in
the surf—is something like a small
lemonade-bottle.
Try to get one without “This bottle
remains the property of .. .” embossed on
its glass. The words might give you a
guilt-complex, and the raised lettering
can defeat your purpose—smooth glass
which the line will run off easily is what
you’re after.
Fit a cork in the neck of your bottle,
and you have completed your rod-an’-reel.
Then you tie one end of your line to the
neck, and wind the rest of the line about
2in. wide and about lin. up from the base
of the bottle. Fix your sinker and your
hook, and stick the hook in the cork.
It’s safe. It won’t come unwound. You
can carry it in your hip-pocket.
To use it you bait-up, and unwind
about 6ft. of line. Then, with one
finger gently stopping the line unwinding,
you hold the bottle by the neck in one
hand, swing the 6ft. business-end around
your head and when it gets a good speed
up, with the base of bottle pointed where
you know the fish are, you let her go.
Wind in the slack on your bottle and
wait for a bite. If you wind in every
time onto the bottle (except when you
have a fish on and haul him hand-over-
hand) you’ll never get a tangle.
yOU can use this gear for any kind of
-*■ fishing—off a beach, off rocks or out
of a boat. For heavier-line stuff, like
jewy at night, you need a bigger bottle ; it
holds more.
The gear is particularly satisfactory off
a beach if you are near someone who
is wielding a costly beach-rod with every-
thing that opens and shuts on it. When
you have outcast his jewel-bearing reel
by yards a few times he will probably
stump-off down the beach to somewhere
more select.
One advantage of the bottle-technique
is that womenfolk seem to pick it up as
easily as you can. You want to be ready
to jump (for a daisy-cutter) or duck (for
a bumper) the first few times they try,
but they seem to catch-on a lot quicker
than with rod-and-reel, and soon become
addicts.
Other advantages the bottle has over
rod-and-reel are:
1. It will not tend to poke people’s eyes
out if you travel in public transport to go
fishing.
2. The bottle is an ideal container and
dispenser for first-aid if it rains or the
wind turns cold.
3. It would be hard to find a better
implement to scone catfish or octopus .or
other things than can bring unplanned
excitement to dingy-fishing after dark . . .
I hope this won’t start a fight.
Long’un
* * * *
years ago, Tingha (N.S.W.) was
a busy tin-mining centre. Among the
diggers were several thousand Chinese
who built themselves a joss-house. By
1952 the town’s population was numbered
in hundreds and tin-production, on a
greatly reduced scale, was looked after
by dredges; such Chinese as remained
were mostly well-to-do businessmen. Of




old Chinatown there remained the totter-
ing joss-house and its owner-inhabitant,
the last of the old coolies. Because of its
state of disrepair, the building was con-
demned and an eviction order taken out
against old George. The Old Age and
Invalid Pensioners’ Association came to
his help and had proceedings stopped, and
the old chap lived in his partly collapsed
temple until his death last year. In his
will he left all he possessed—the joss-
house—to the Old Age and Invalid Pen-
sioners’ Association. They hope to repair
it for use as a meeting-place.—“ Miss M.”
* * * *
“Fairf”: The plumber was busy and
I’d offered to give his offsider a hand to
dig the long, deep trench through hard
clay. Offsider arrived carrying pick and
shovel—and a garden-fork. I chuckled
as I swung the pick. At smoke-oh I
strolled past the mug’s section of trench,
and stopped grinning—he’d got more out
than I had. I tried it myself, and found
that in hard clay it does the job of the
other two implements in one operation.
I’m converted. But what would the old-
time ganger have thought of it?
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: I see from an English
newspaper that Australian wallabies are
living and breeding on the desolate moors
of the Derbyshire Peak District. Viscount
Scarsdale, president of the Derby branch
of the R.S.P.C.A., calls it “almost a
miracle of nature.” He probably knows
“Tell you what—the tunnel must he in the NEXT hill!"
nothing about their toughness in the
struggle for survival, at times, in their
native land. Apparently these wallabies
are the survivors or descendants of those
once held in a private zoo near Maccles-
field. They were released just after the
war when feeding them became too
difficult—possibly their owners hoped
they might have a sporting chance of sur-
vival on the moors. There are believed
to have been about 54 wallabies at this
time, and though no muster is possible
they appear to be multiplying. The
R.S.P.C.A. assures nervous walkers that
“they are harmless.”
* # * *
“Sackfair”: Was tickled by the passage
from John Fountain’s “Dunleavy’s Gym.”
—.. .punched the heavy bag and hissed
and sweated” (B. 27/3/’57). Lots of pugs
hiss —a sharp downward sniff through the
nose —in time with the punch when
shadow-sparring or punching the bag,
although they seldom do when actually
fighting. Ask any of ’em the reason for
the hissing and you’d get a variety of
answers, the most truthful probably
being an embarrassed “Just a habit, I
suppose.” Stableboys also hiss when
currycombing horses, but the sound comes
from between clenched teeth and is
drawn-out and continual. One school
holds that the sound soothes and quietens
the horse; the other that hissing saves
the groom from inhaling the dust he
combs from the horse’s coat. Both or
neither could be correct. Personally, I’d
write it off as tradition.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Bunya-nut feasts were
held triennially (B. 27/3/’57) because the
bunya-pine bears only once every three
years, and this calendar ensured such a
plenitude of provender for all that the
South Burnett (Q.) blacks acted as hosts
to tribes from as far away as the Lower
Dawson district. These, by custom, were
guaranteed safe-conduct during this
period, though at other times there was
traditional war between the tribes. In
any case, cannibalism among s.-Q. blacks
was virtually unknown, though there is
at least one reference to it extant. In his
Genesis of Queensland, Stuart Russell
quotes Petrie’s story of a gin turning up
at his homestead carrying a partially-
devoured shinbone of a child.
“Darcy”: There’s a new death’s-head
at the feast, a bogey at the breakfast-table
—cholesterol. This mordant substance is
found in all animal-fats —cream, butter,
milk, dripping and even eggs. According
to American scientists who have raised
the alarm, it’s essential to our diet in
small quantities, but in excess it’s a killer,
causing hardening of the grteries and
death from heart-attacks. Seems that
our only hope is to become teetotal, non-
smoking vegetarians, living in trees to
avoid death on the roads. Darwin’s
theory in reverse!
EL ALAMEIN
For my father, Trooper Andy Wood, 3rd
Anzac Battalion Imperial Camel Corps, who
perforce stayed behind at Beersheba after World
War I.
Now the pressure presses on,
This is not a phony war !
Now the Cossacks flee the Don
Now the Yanks Corregidor,
Now the Doughboy’s underneath,
Now the joke’s back in his teeth.
Now real bullets kick the gun,
Now the Froggie’s on the run,
Now the Eyetye’s in attack—
Whoa! His bayonet’s in your back,
Sons of bawds and butchers’ sluts
Turn and show your fangs and guts.
Hopeful Joes that dodged the dole,
Get your chop of Rommel roll.
Fancy shots from Hughenden,
Shoot! —Your birdie’s up again!
Down ! —Your fire conduit fills
Innocents from Surry Hills!
Jerry's run you down the land —
Time to call the bastard's hand !
Now they’ve sent you guns and help,
Steel to make the Jerry yelp,
Though he’s socked you black and blue
Now the call’s swung back to you.
If you’re worth a farthing’s worth,
If your birth was not stillbirth,
If you’ve got a lungs to burst,
If you’ve got to die of thirst,
Play it pretty, mother’s men —
Kid yourselves at Alamein.
If you’ve got a gripe or sore
On your own or fathers' score
Take it out for Palembang, ,
For the blooming Kelly Gang;
Boyne, Eureka, Marston■ Moors,
Early transportation laws,
Women-trouble, politics —
Anything that stinks or sticks !
For religion—Army sores —•
Booze and boredokn, Army whores—
If it’s for your doubtful birth,
If for anything on earth,
Bannockburn or Kiley’s Run
Tack it on the bleeding Hun . . .
Stake the bastard breath for breath,
Life for life and death for death ;
Take him with you falling down —
Here’s a chance to go to town !
Up and take him, mother’s men,
Kid yourselves at Alamein !
QUEENSLAND.
A. J. WOOD.


POLISHING-OFF a waffle and
maple-syrup in a city cafe;, I was
visited by a bee. After showing profes-
sional interest in what I was eating, it
investigated the salt- and then the pepper-
shaker. Sneezing twice, it overbalanced
into the little jug containing the remnants
of the syrup. You should have heard the
commotion when it found it
.wasn’t honey.—“P.O.M.C.”
* $ *
“Brick E”: The 18in.-
diameter camphor - laurel
appeared to be healthy, and
when it was felled the
timber near the fop proved
to be sound and solid.
Half-way down, however,
it had developed a “pipe”
about an inch across, and
the last 10ft. of trunk was
nearly all pipe; the few
inches surrounding it were
riddled with holes, obvi-
ously the work of some sort
of borer. Now, if wogs can
survive in the very heart
of a camphor-distillery,
what of the vaunted efficacy
of mothballs? The inside of
the pipe reeked of camphor.
* * *
“H.P.T.”: Dutchy and
Duke were jumping the
rattler from Narrabri to
Moree (N.S.W.), when the
guard spotted them and,
having a perverted sense of
humor, stopped the train
halfway across Galathera
Plain (30 miles from tree to
tree). With the aid of
the driver and fireman he tossed
them off. Next day they walked
22 miles before they came to
water. When Dutchy was able to speak
he said: “When I get back to Sydney
I’ll get married, rear a lot of kids, tell
them of my experiences on the track,
and if they don’t howl I’ll tan the back-
sides off them.”
* * * *
v
“Duke”: “Jack without a shirt” was
the only name he was ever known by in
western shearing-sheds. Cooking at
Goodooga he knocked-up a big duff, then
found he didn’t have a cloth big enough
to wrap it, so he used his shirt. At tea-
time all the men were praising the duff
and backing-up for second-helpings,
when a shearer went into the galley to
get a mug of tea —and noticed the shirt
bearing evidence of its use. Jack pro-
tested it was a clean one, but a search of
his swag revealed that it was the only
shirt he owned. There was an argument,
during which the shirt was torn to pieces,
and thereafter Jack did his babbling
stripped to the waist.
* * * *
“Toowong”: The laden cones were
dropping from our bunya-tree, but the
nuts were always ratted before we got a
look-in. Suspecting small boys, we set
a watch. Culprit: our horse, who broke
open the cones with his forefeet and, with
his teeth, carefully picked the nuts out of
their hard covering, waxing fat and shiny
on his high-protein diet.
“Uramao”: When a 75-year-old
fisherman, F. E. Abbott, hooked some-
thing in Raglan Harbor, North Island,
“Kiss Mumsie, then of to bye-byes”
New Zealand, on March 2, it towed the
15ft. dinghy with him and three com-
panions a quarter of a mile before it was
vanquished. To the Auckland Sea
Anglers’ Club, the captor reported a
snapper 32in. long, 28in. girth, and
weighing 231 b. 12oz. He requested that
it be entered for the over-60 division of
the N.Z. snapper-championship.
LONGREACH
TN the early ’twenties, Longreach was
-one of the least attractive of Queens-
land outback towns. One usually met
the first large, multicolored mob of
goats several miles out of town. Some
wore tin collars, indicating that they were
registered, but most did not. Far across
the plain, the roofs shimmered in the
heat-haze, the brightest shimmer coming
from the bottles, piled in heaps the size
of large buildings. With about 4000
inhabitants the town had nine hotels.
The water-supply came from an
artesian-bore, scalding-hot and foul-
smelling. Each house had rainwater-
tanks for drinking and cooling-tanks for
the bore-water, so that one might bath
without being scalded. The highly
mineralised water killed, all plants, so
there was not a garden or a blade of
green grass, and no flower save an
occasional purple bougainvillea.
The goats, sole source of milk-supply
and many times more numerous than
humans, shared the common with the
teamsters’ horses. Both were super-
vised, to the best of his ability, by an
unpopular official, appropriately called
the Nuisance Inspector. He had his
troubles with teamsters over common-
fees, but when he tried to enforce regi*-
tration of goats the housewives declared
war. Collars were removed from regis-
tered goats and placed on unregistered
ones, and moved again and again, always
just ahead of the inspector. Two thou-
sand unregistered animals, impounded
overnight for destruction next day, were
freed before dawn and the gates of the
pound-yard smashed. The inspector’*
task was hopeless.
In 1921, Parer and Macintosh, on theif
flight from England, made an overnight
stop at Longreach, giving most inhabi-
tants their first sight of an aircraft. Three
or four years later it became the first
headquarters of Qantas, and one of the
most air-minded towns in Australia. A'
T-model Ford, on flanged wheels, was
seen shuddering its way along the partly-
constructed rail-link with Winton.
But the real transformation came with
the laying-on of water from the three-
miles-distant Thomson River. Then
gardens bloomed, lawns grew, trees
shaded the streets, and goats climbed on
hoods of cars to reach the foliage.
Swimming-baths were built and a few
milking-cows appeared.
And, suddenly, the hated bore-water
became a source of great distinction.
Surely you’ve heard of Longreach, the
only town in Australia with hot and
cold running-water laid-on from the
municipal main 3?
MISS M.


Slipway and Engineering Business
Fully Operative, For Sale
Fully equipped Engineering and Boat Building Workshop on site.
Sawmill recently installed in production. 300 acres Freehold
agricultural land part planted with coconuts, can be completely
planted.
Quantity of good timber on property. Five furnished European
houses, Copra Drier, Boys’ Quarters, Ablution Blocks, Two Slips
—large capable of vessels'to 150 tons, enough equipment on
hand to extend, wharf, jetty, roads, gardens, fruit trees, electric
light, water laid on, two launches and power dinghy.
This business is a going concern and employs four European and
forty Natives and can be extended to include boat building.
Owing to ill-health, owner intends return to Australia and will
dispose of the business on a “walk-in, walk-out basis.”
The business is situated in an all weather anchorage in ideal
surroundings.
Genuine buyers apply to:—
The Proprietor, Sariba Slipway,
SAMARA), PAPUA.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
"WOOL AWAY!"-BUT CREDIT TIGHT
TT/TTH the national wool-
cheque for the nine
months, to March 31 at £356
million, overtopping the
cheque for the full previous
year by £22 million and that
for the corresponding penod of
the 1955-56 term by £l2l
million, some of the reasons
for Australia's anomaleus
economy become apparent. .
But at this juncture it should
be kept in mind that in the
latest nine months 513,488
more bales of wool (total
3,579,027 bales) have been sold
than in the same period of
the previous season—not all
the increase has been the result
of higher prices. The average
price for greasy was 80.6 d. a
pound in the latest period,
compared with 60.6 d. a pound
in the previous one. That is
a rise of 33 p.c. whereas the ■
total receipts are up 51 p.c.
.. . , , ,
More wool has already been
received into store than was
sold during the entire 1955-56
season, so that sales over the
next two months should bring
the volume of turnover to a
record figure, even if there
should be fewer bales remain-
ing to be sold now than there
were a year ago ; and if prices
remain at their present level,
the total receipts for the season
should be better than indicated
by the price-rise alone,
Overseas Trade
Accompanying the bigger
wool-cheque there has been,
of course, a much better over-
seas trading experience. During
the period covered by the latest
cheque, the favorable balance
of trade was £206 million,
compared with a debit of £77
million, for the same period
of the preceding year. And in
the same period the improve-
™ent in the Commonwealth
Bank's holding of gold and
balances abroad has been £l5O
million.
Why, then, with this back-
ground of a strengthening
economy, the crash in profits
in the case of so many
pomnanies?
f
There . a l n ? a ™ ne, y ° f
reasons, including the one that
industries had reached
, ~
overproduction anyway-
P artlcul f noticeable in the
ca , se °j refrigerators. Some
other businesses lacked the
experience necessary to cope
with any sharp change in
economic conditions. Some
others got into troubles peculiar
to themselves—stock troubles,
among other things.
"I used to go to school with him—he always Was a
stodgy, conservative beggar.”
Credit Squeeze
But next-door to most of the
problems of business today is
that of credit-restriction a
deliberate policy pursued bv the
central bank with the approval
of the Treasury.
This policy may be harsh in
its effects on some particular
businesses, and it has made
most concerns tread more
warily in their activities, but, on
the whole, it has been justified.
An accompaniment of credit-
restriction has been increased
sales-tax and higher company-
tax, as well as other anti-
inflationary measures. Of
them all, the higher company-
tax, which is in no way
rebatable in the hands of
shareholders, is the most ques-
tionable.
During a period of an easing
overseas trading position,
credit was tightened noticeably
up to December 31 last. On
that date, compared with a
year earlier, total bank-
advances to businesses were
£7OB million, against £738
million. Most of the contrac-
tion occurred in the advances
to rural industries, which
could obviously best afford it,
and in the building trade, which
no doubt found the squeeze
hard to take. The retail trade
also felt the pinch, while the
manufacturing industries and
wholesale trades had to receive
additional bank-gssistance.
Among personal advances,
loans for homes fell from £97
million to £B7 million.
The total of all bank-
advances slipped from £893,
million to £865 million. Since
December the decline has con-
tinued down to £B4l million,
but Ihis drop appears to be
seasonal, and, if anything,
suggests an easier attitude
toward the customer than
during the same period of last
year.
Hire-purchase Steady
Recently, too, in spite of the
advent of TV, the demand for
hire-purchase finance by the
public has levelled-off. Thus the
Treasury has achieved, for the
time being, anyway, without
the co-operation of the h.-p.
companies what it sought
earlier to achieve with their
help.
It is not surprising, all things
considered, that the liquidity of
the banking-system has been
improving over the past six
months. But little of the im-
provement has percolated to
industry through the banks.
One of the reasons for improve-
ment in liquidity is the fact that
increasing deposits have not
percolated through to industry.
The situation, then, is that
whoever has increased his own
resources through his own
income is sitting pretty at the
present time and is making his
presence felt on the Stock


r
A . rj
'
■ ..'■■■
m
ffpS
One thousand doors
to service
Every year tens of thousands of men and women join
the hundreds of thousands who have cheque accounts
with the “Wales”.
To meet the needs of its growing number Oi
customers, for over a century the “Wales” has opened
new offices at the rate of one every five and a half
weeks, until today it operates over one thousand
branches and agencies.
Throughout every State of Australia, in New
Zealand, Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London,
the doors of these thousand offices are open to you,
too. Come in and see for yourself the friendly and
efficient service which is a feature of banking at
the “Wales”.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOOTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5710C
Exchanges ; on the other hand,
the fellow who has to depend
on borrowed money to further
his business pursuits is finding
the going pretty hard.
Anomalies and Hardships
Obviously it is a position of
many economic anomalies and
hardships. But, overall, there
is still very little unemploy-
ment, even in the coal industry
(where trade - union policy
almost courts unemployment),
and it is clear that the Federal
Government aims at giving
inflation the hardest ■ blow it
can at this critical stage.
Though some States have un-
pegged their basic wage, over
the last two quarters there has
been a fall in the cost-of-living
index (following the big
“potato” rise of last spring),
and there is more stability in the
industrial outlook (on the costs
side) than there was at any
time during 1956.
There appears to be roughly
enough credit available in
Australia to do the job immedi-
ately needed of it. There clearly
isn’t enough available to take
care of all the capital-construc-
tion projects which the country
needs. But there aren’t the
capital (material) resources
available either. To inflate
internal credit without obtain-
ing a corresponding increase
in material and manpower
resources would start - off
another bonfire of inflation. To
prevent such inflation is
clearly the policy of the
Commonwealth Treasury
today. The pity of it is that
tight credit is likely to hurt
the small man more than big
business.
1.C.1.
\i7ITH the shares of Imperial
** Chemical Industries (A.
and N.Z.) around 505., ex new
issue, many market prognosti-
cators have been confounded.
There was some deliberately
considered selling at around
475. before the new issue, but,
instead of declining, the stock
has gone from strength to
strength in the market, and the
rights to the new issue were
never cheap.
At around 50s. the yield is
about 3.6 p.c., which isn’t very
high. 1.C.1. is one of the
several market leaders at
present possessing mesmeric
attractions to a certain type
of investor probably one
who is prepared to wait for
his benefits, and who is
scared to dabble in second- and
third-rank stocks, there having
been so many casualties among
them recently.
Though 1.C.1. is essentially a
long - term investment, its
potential, on overseas experi-
ence, is outstanding. No
industry in the world today is
more progressive than the
chemical industry, and' within
the sterling area the 1.C.1'.
group is sitting very pretty.
The Strong and the Weak
'T'HOUGH B.H.P. had lost a
A little of its market strength
just before Easter it fell
from 48s. 9d. to 465. 9d. —most
of the other sought-after leaders
were still in strong demand.
This applied particularly to
A.C.1., Burns Philp, 1.C.1.,
G. J. Coles and Woolworths.
Henry Jones was inclined to
weaken after a long period of
market buoyancy.
The pattern of the market
which has been developing
since the beginning of 1957
continued to prevail. Strength
is added to strength ; weakness
begets further weakness. A.
Goninan, in the N.S.W. heavy
industries, is priced to yield
only 4.7 p.c. ; Malcolm Moore
Industries, a Victorian concern
interested in a different section
of the “heavies,” has passed
its interim and the scrip is well
below par. Newbold Fire-
brick, with B.H.P. trading
connections, has been in keen
demand following good finan-
cial reports; other concerns
connected with the construction
trades aren’t nearly so happy.
So it is in other industries.
Lustre Hosiery has struck a
bad patch and its ord. shares
have fallen heavily (to 11s. or
so last v/eek). Others in the
industry have been more
fortunate. Old and solidly-
established Berlei (corsets) is
still bought to yield under
5 p.c.
Banks are in demand. N.S.W.
breweries aren’t so much,
among leaders. Though Bank
of N.S.W. has put on about
£5 a share since the last issue
of new scrip, Tooth shares
have remained rather depressed
around 465. 6d. Even C.S.R.,
which has had a patchy support
for its scrip in recent years,
has picked up fairly strongly
by comparison with Tooths.
Breweries, in N.S.W. especi-
ally, have some problems to
contend with at the moment,
one being land-tax, another
being the drop in beer-sales
following last year’s increase in
excise. There is also the pubs-
v.-clubs row still going on;
breweries are naturally more
interested in pubs than in the
clubs, which have multiplied
since the war.
Some of the woollen-textile
concerns are staging a recovery
in market estimation. Yarra
Falls has picked up to 28s.
again, and some other Vic-
torian mills are doing better.
For some reason hard to
discern, the ords. in Australian
Woollen Mills (Marrickville)
have been weaker, and at 31s.
offer the attractive yield of
7 p.c. This is a leader in the
industry, and has been particu-
larly successful in recent un-
certain times.
Masonite Holdings remains
a market favorite, being bought
at 245. 6d. to yield just over
4 p.c. on the present div. basis.
The co. is doing very well, but
on its increasing capital major
div.-increases seem to be some
distance off It is a financially
strong, well-run concern that
has pioneered an industry
which is now attracting more
competition.
The varying fortunes of
different concerns is illustrated
by Tecnico —down to below
10s. last year, the shares are
nearly back to par, following


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with "the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office f<Jr Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
development of'the Pye associ-
ation. But other concerns
making TV equipment aren’t all
in the ascendant, and TV Corp.
(Sydney transmitter) has a
market of 6s. 3d. for its 10s.-
paids.
Ford Sherington
A GAIN reporting satisfac-
tory trading results for the
half-year to December 31, and
repeating the 10 p.c.-p.a. div.-
rate (not tax-free this time,
though), the Ford Sherington
board warns “that it is possible
that the high rate of sales-tax
and credit-restrictions will have
an adverse effect on the
company’s future business.”
However, shareholders can
remain assured that the F.S.
board is always cautious in its
assessment of the future. Its
dividend policy and its financial
strength are also indicative of
its conservative attitude. Which
is one reason why this manu-
facturer of travel-goods can
be regarded as a high-class
investment, in its particular
category, and is so regarded by
the sharemarket, its ss. shares
being bought at 9s. 9d. on
’Change to yield 5 p.c. That is
a compliment to the board,
but, on its record, a deserved
one.
The net tangible backing for
the ss. shares amounts to
12s. 2d. on book-values that
arc conservative indeed.
Blue Asbestos
Ll'’rom “Nimrod,” W.A.J
PRODUCTION of blue
- 1 asbestos at Wittenoom
Gorge (W.A.) is looking up.
7’wo yeaps ago the company,
Australian Blue Asbestos, Ltd.,
paid a bonus if 103 bags were
produced in any shift; now
400 bags a shift is common,
and the workers collect a
bonus if they turn out more
than 1200 bags in a day of three
shifts. What’s more, the bags,
which used to weigh 871 b., are
now 25 p.c. heavier. This
increased output has been
brought about by four factors
• —the increased length of fibre
being mined, the installation
of additional plant, the use of
the full shifts in both the co.’s
mines in the Gorge, and the
employment of extra labor.
To house the new men and
their families, the W.A. State
Housing Commission plans to
build nine new dwellings in
the township, which has grown
from a depressed population
of 350 to a booming 900 in
eighteen months.
U.S. Investment Here
ACCORDING to “Invest-
rnent in Australia,” a hand-
book produced by the U.S.
Bureau of Foreign Commerce,
U.S. businessmen are showing
increased interest in Australia
as a field for investment.
Direct U.S. private invest-
ments in Australia have more
than trebled in the six-year
period 1949-55, rising from
$l6l million to $494 million.
Approximately 200 U.S. firms
have investments in Australian
subsidiaries, and some 600
others have patent-licensing or
technological arrangements or
distribution facilities in the
Commonwealth.
These investments have
varied widely, ranging from
small firms turning-out one or
two specialty items to large
enterprises, such as automobile-
manufacturing and oil-refining.
As the Australian economy
continues to expand, additional
U.S. investors should find fruit-
ful fields for investment in new
industries or in new enterprises
in existing industries, the
survey suggests.
In addition to a wealth of
natural resources and a favor-
able attitude toward private
foreign investment, the
similarity of Australian and
American ways of life and
institutions is an important
factor in the investment climate.
In general, both countries are
founded on Anglo - Saxon
traditions ; their legal systems
are based on English common
law ; and there is no language-
barrier. Democratic govern-
ment is a feature of both
countries, and both economies
are based on private enter-
prise. Remittance of profits
ir unrestricted, although
repatriation of capital from
Australia is permitted only
in limited circumstances.
Manufacturing has become
“We stun.bled onto this new starting-device
quite by accident !”
the most important single
sector of Australia’s economic
activity since World War 11,
the survey claims. Neverthe- ■
less, Australian firms are meet-
ing only about a third of the
demand for machine-tools,
about half the demand for
industrial mechanical-handling
equipment, and little more than
half the demand for metal-
working machinery. Most
precision ball- and roller-bear-
ings are imported.
Many consumer-goods items,
such as linoleum, cutlery, glass-
ware, razor-blades, jewelry and
fancy goods, are imported in
volume. Other products sub-
stantially imported are petrol-
engines, hand-tools, office-
equipment and surgical and
optical instruments. Almost all
requirements for watches,
clocks and good - quality
crockery are dependent on
imports.
Opportunities exist, the U.S.
businessman is informed, for
integrated expansion of
chemical manufactures based
on the newly established oil-
refineries and on development
of Victoria’s brown-coal
resources, as well as for pro-
duction of some plastic
materials and synthetic textiles,
More than 60 types of com-
mercial metals and minerals are
produced in quantity. Aus-
iralia is self-sufficient in coal
and iron ore and produces
go i dj lead? titanium silver
tungsten, and zinc for export.
Fa ™"S a " d activi-
''es traditionally have been the
mainstay of the Australian
* . nusiiauau
Z „ c ? n “ nue ‘°
° £ P T" e f ™P ortance , and , the
“urce °f most export earn,ngs
UpSUrge ° f maim '
n *’ . „
These are just some of the
facts which U.S. businessmen
are being told about Australia.


“What, ME a shoplifter?"


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — I.v Divorce.
TO FRANCIS BRABIN formerly of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that WILMA
BRABIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3040 of 1950 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three r;ears and upwards
and habitual drunkenness and habitual
failure to 'support her during three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Ofiice Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the. 21st June 1957 and obtain a
eopv of the Petition without charge
from E. H. TEBBUTT & SONS, Soli-
citors, 2S Martin Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUCHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Julius Katchen
The doors at the side of the
Melbourne Town Hall were
shut for the beginning of the
1957 subscription concerts, the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
played “God Save the Queen”
and then, to the surprise of new
subscribers and some old ones,
the entire string-section-picked
up their bows and left the
stage.
They weren’t striking for
better conditions or showing
disapproval of conductor Kurt
Woess. Theodor Berger, the
Austrian composer, had taken
the unusual course of confin-
ing his Rondo Ostinato on a
Spanish Theme to the wind-
and percussion-sections. In
this limited instrumental
field, however, he worked con-
siderable wonders. The sound
of the wind-instruments play-
ing together on their own, with
occasional clashes from the
percussion, was unusual and
not always satisfying, but the
composer managed to produce
some sounds of beauty, some
of sorrow and some of glad-
ness.
Rachmaninoff's Concerto for
Piano and Orchestra, No. 1,
in C Minor, brought Julius
Katchen to the piano. He
captured the audience very
quickly with a passionate
rendering of the majestic opus.
A particularly fine render-
ing of the Symphony No. 1 in
D Major by Mahler made up
for any lack in the rest of the
programme.
Moving to Sydney for his
final recital, Katchen packed
the Town Hall with a pro-
gramme which couldn’t fail to
lure a feast of classico-
romanticism.
There was Beethoven’s
“Pathetique” Sonata, the
allegro which succeeds the
powerful introductory grave.
all bustling energy and
defiance, and the adagio con-
taining in full measure that
serene resignation which Beet-
hoven had learnt from
Plutarch.
It was followed by
“Schumann’s Symphonic
Studies,” . notable for the
strength of the left-hand play-
ing, the subtle evocation of
atmosphere and emotion allied
to a -beautiful singing tone,
and the well - controlled
bravura of the lordly finale.
Chopin was represented by
the B Flat Minor Sonata, the
scherzo of which resounded
with passionate outbursts, the
great threnody of the third
movement a true “poem of
death,” and the finale, with
its swirling triplets, taken at
breathless pace. There were
Joan Bray, David Bluford, Donald Reid and Owen Weingott in
John Alden’s production of “The Merchant" at the Independent.
also two Ballades ; the G
Minor and F Minor —essays
in muscular poetry.
Pyrotechnics were provided
by Liszt’s Twelfth Hungarian
Rhapsody, its flaming showers
of notes falling like autumn
leaves in a windstorm.
*X* +++
Parrenin String Quartet
At the second of their
Sydney subscription-concerts
under the regis of Musica Viva,
this ensemble of French players
brought a mixture of stateli-
ness, easy conviviality and
mellow warmth to their play-
ing of Mozart’s Quartet in B
Flat Major, K 589.
In the first of the Beethoven
set of three “Rasoumousky”
Quartets, the players didn’t
embrace only Melpomene, for
Momus put in a furtive
appearance here and there to
add a voice of mocking wit to
the dramatic argument. This
was beautifully balanced music
—precise without being merely
mathematical, exuberant, vital
and strong.
Sandwiched between these
was the Lyric Suite of Alban
Berg. Berg, who shocked the
operatic world with his “Woz-
zeck,” has been called “the
romanticist of the Schonberg
school,” and his Lyric Suite
is an attempt to graft
romanticism on to atonality
and the twelve-tone scale —-
which is like trying to graft a
persimmon on to a prickly-
pear.
The work is an essay in
neurosis, and the shock-treat-
ment it calls for was certainly
given. The total effect was a
mass of noises, including those
of angry hornets, a cat whose
tail had just been trodden on,
the whine of a rotary-type
lawnmower, a bandsaw with a
stutter, and a coloratura
soprano singing very flat.
According to the composer,
the third of its six movements,
allegro misterioso, was for him
“a dance of skeletons of the
dead” presumably on a
galvanised-iron roof. The fifth
movement, presto delirando, is
supposed to “give sensation
like the throbbing felt by a
man delerious with high fever”
—a remarkable understatement.
The quartet worked like
mad on the thing—a monu-
mental waste of effort.
Pro Musica
The string of ceiling-high
gaslights in Sydney Univer-
sity’s Great Hall fluttered as
Professor Peart, pursued by
applause, bustled on to the
podium, faced the Pro Musica
symphony orchestra and
raised his baton. .
On the downbeat Boyce’s
Fifth Symphony in D cascaded
through the third-empty hall.
This vigorous Handelian work
was done competently enough,
but a Concerto for String
Orchestra by contemporary
Australian composer Margaret
Sutherland was not so easily
put over. It is a dramatic thing,
with a series of terse themes
tossed from group to group.
Here, the first-violins weren't
musically homogeneous—as in
a choir, when one or two
voices have their own ideas
about timing, so a couple of
erring violins can shatter even
the strongest string-section.
One was inclined to agree with
the programme-notes that the
final movement was indeed an
“extraordinary outburst of
Bacchanalian frenzy.”
Manfredini’s Concerto for
Trumpet, Strings and Harpsi-
chord-continuo had Professor
William Trethowan trumpet-
ing. The cheery nature of this
18th-century piece called for
stronger trumpet with more
bite and, in a fast run towards
the end. the soloist's tone
momentarily- split. Professor
Peart’s never-flagging beat kept
everyone on their toes.
After interval, Haydn’s
Symphony No. 99 in E Flat
was nicely done excepting the
ragged entry in the vivace.
Darius Milhaud’s Serenade was
the most un - serenadelike
serenade one has yet heard.
Still, the orchestra seemed to
enjoy playing it, and that is
not unimportant.
Last, the Suite from the
ballet “Uncle Remus,” written
in 1930 by Gordon Jacob —•
thoroughly charming and a
relief after the previous item.
A. W.
♦♦♦ *** *
“The Merchant of Venice”
Remembering John Alden’s
excellent, savage Shylock of a
few years ago, one went along
with some interest to the
Independent Theatre, North
Sydney, to see his production
of “The Merchant” for the
benefit of this year’s
Intermediate students.
Judging the performance by
its purpose, it weren’t ’alf bad
at all —nicely set and smoothly
and briskly presented, it was a


NOTHINC EQUALS
Si Warmray's Amazing Efficiency 0
warm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
fa Large Capacity
~ Over 8,000
cu. ft.
fa Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
fa Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
4 Heats over 5,000
■ cu. ft.
JL Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
X Full view of blazing-
fire through open
or closed front.
X Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your
r^o*-aIed«OMEHWER
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
mmm
m WARMRAY
m HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency is
the Patented Heating Tabes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air In the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders' Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
straightforward account of
what young men of 15 or 16
should know'about such things,
all of it done with enough
shout and swagger to arrest
their interest or, possibly, to
browbeat them into silence.
In this latter it was eminently
successful except in moments
of more tender passion, when
the youthful audience hooted,
whistled and shouted its
opinion of such cissy goings-on
-—so that when Bassanio
embraced Portia after picking
his box, and the youngsters
derisively raised the roof, one
wondered if he took the oppor-
tunity to mutter more than
sweet nothings in her ear.
Still, there was rather more
than that. Owen Weingott’s
Shylock was, as one might have
expected, very good indeed;
shrewd and fierce, yet subdued
almost to naturalness. One
waits, of course, like a school-
teacher with a cane, for “Hath
not a Jew eyes? .. .” Mr.
Weingott went straight to the
top of the class for making it
not a cry for sympathy, but the
precise mixture of argument
and threat that must follow the
ferocity of “To bait fish
withal.”
It was Mr. Alden’s produc-
tion, however, which really
held attention. No producer
could end the sea of troubles
arising from a largely immature
cast —although David Bluford’s
Bassanio had a pleasing and
promising style and voice, Joan
Bray’s Portia was simply a
fetching little heroine who was
utterly defeated by the court-
scene, however bravely she
went at it, while Donald Reid’s
Antonio would have yielded a
very tender pound of flesh —
but at least they showed, by
going through the right
motions, that Mr. Alden
knows very well what he is
about. Even though compari-
son is impossible, there is more
intelligent appreciation of the
play in this production of it
than there was in the Hepburn-
Helpmann version—for all its
luxury and glitter of
personalities.
'The little things, for instance.
How good it is to see Morocco
given his full measure of fire
and dignity instead of being
reduced to a capering clown, as
he was in the Benthall produc-
tion. As Alden comments in
his programme-note, “Could
not Morocco be a rough sketch
for Othello?” To which one
would answer, “My oath, he
could, with Aaron somewhere
in the family-tree, too.” Even
that black-hearted character
had a wild magnificence in the
very magnitude of his villainy.
Alden lets Arragon go for
comedy and, conceding him
that, there are still grounds for
a reading of arrogant strength
and intelligence rather than
foppishness.
One other memory: the
schoolboy in the seat behind
who, with the satisfaction of
the woman who has seen the
picture before, anticipated the
action throughout in a hearty
whisper for the benefit of his
parents. His Inter, should be
in the bag. •
Artbursts
Melbourne Exhibitions
Seeing the exhibitions of
Norman Lindsay watercolors
at the Sedon Galleries in Mel-
bourne I recalled his first
exhibition and the horror it
occasioned—matrons shielded
their daughters’ faces from the
dreadful sight with their
umbrellas. Whoever Lindsay’s
model was she must have
made an enormous impression
on him and he reacted to it
like an artist. Since then he
must have painted, drawn and
etched her, or his conception
of her, tens of thousands of
times, and that he hasn’t lost
the least scrap of interest in
her is evidenced by the loving
care with which he has tried
to render the play of lighf on
a hip or shoulder in this
current show. In the matter of
devotion he is in the same class
as Rembrandt and Rubens.
The Independent Group are
once more demonstrating their
independence at the Athenaeum
Gallery. A strangely theatrical
but not unalluring light glows
in Kenneth Jack’s “Boats at
Tooradin” and “Evening at
Konagaderra,” and Mary
Mac Queen makes a clever note
of the departure of the fishing-
fleet from San Remo. Charles
Bush has returned from China
with some sophisticated
sketches in his usual manner,
the best of which are “The
Caves of Ta Tun” and a
glimpse of the Great Wall.
Showing at the Tasmanian
Government Tourist Bureau
gallery in Collins-street are
David Newbury, painter, and
Max Lyle, sculptor. Both deal
in abstractions. From basalt,
terrazzo, plaster, sheet-metal
and reinforced concrete, the
sculptor abstracts furious
patterns in three dimensions
which he calls “Span of Life,”
“Void” and “Meditation,” and
in one case he has a “Torso”
in sheet-metal which the present
writer took for a replica of
Ned Kelly’s armor. Mr. New-
bury’s huge abstractions are
('Continued on page 57)


Keep
your
-eye-
on
QUEENSLAND
Australia’s fastest-growing State brings you this outstanding
investment opportunity—the highest Government-
guaranteed interest rate in Australia today I
STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN—£s*7*6%
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
SHORT TERM FOR 5 YEARS
(10 or 20 years optional)
o Loan securities are fully negotiable and may be converted
to cash at any time.
£ Interest is paid half-yearly and is free of exchange.
APPLY FREE OF EXCHANGE through the Commonwealth
Trading Bank; Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited;
Bank of New South Wales; an/ Stockbroker, or direct
to The State Electricity Commission of Queensland, .
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane. A
Underwritten by lan Potter & C*.,
Melbourne and Sydney


The WILD CAL
COLUMN
P /nk of Adelaide
'THE favorable balance of payments
•*- needed to restore Australia's over-
seas funds could, if allowed, exercise an
inflationary influence on the economy,
and for this and other reasons an early
relaxation of credit-restrictions seems
unlikely. Special-account deposits with
the central bank have been increased by
£84.9 million over the last six months,
and, although the legislation promised by
the Federal Government may give the
private banks a degree of protection
against political interference, their lend-
ing activities (and consequently their
earnings) will continue to be limited by
central-bank policy.
Last term’s accounts from the 91-year-
old Bank of Adelaide (covering the year
to September 30, ’56) show that the bank
maintained a high level of liquidity,
despite the tighter money-conditions
prevailing for most of the term. An
£828,506 fall in deposits was accompanied
by a reduction of £1,504,458 in advances,
so that by the end of the term the ratio
of advances to deposits had dropped to
a relatively low 49.9 p.c., while there was
11s. 7d. (including 2s. 9d. in special-
account) of liquid assets for every £ of
liabilities to the public. The £1,075,020
increase in liquids was held in cash and
money at short-call:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital.. £1,750,000 £1,750,000 £1,750,000
Reserves .. 1,533,306 1,827,350 1,867,245
Deposits, etc... 34,413,502 35,308,447 34,479,941
Notes .. 6,489 6,489 6,489
Due other banks 1,070,320 842,504 1,064,357
Final div. .. 75,000 87,500 87,500
£38,848,617 £39,822,290 £39,255,532
Liquid assets.. 16,666,259 14,187,678 15,262,698
Special account 6,668,000 5,668,000 6,368,000
Advances .. 14,596,573 18,716,995 17,212,537
Premises .. 733,813 845,421 939,394
Other assets .. 183,972 404,196 472,903
£38,848,617 £39,822,290 £39,255,532
Included with “other assets” is a 40 p.c.
share-interest in Finance Corporation of
Australia, Ltd., which paid a 10 p.c. div.
(its first) last term. This South Aus-
tralian co. was formed late in 1954 and
provides finance for the hire-purchase of
motor - vehicles, farm - equipment,
machinery and domestic appliances.
The bank transacts the bulk of its
business in South Australia, where four
new branches were opened during the
term, bringing the number of branches
and agencies in that State to 151. Expan-
sion has been financed largely from
earnings, the only request to shareholders
for more capital in over 30 years coming
in 1954, when 500,000 £1 ords. were
issued at a p.c. premium. Paid
capital, £1,750,000, is all in f.-p. £1 ords.
The interest charged on overdrafts
was increased from_s p.c. to an average
of 5£ p.c. half-way through the term,
but a reduction in the rate of interest
received on special-account deposits,
higher operating costs and the contrac-
tion of advances left net earnings £4149
below the record 1955 figure at £214,895,
Provisions for taxation, contingencies,
etc., were not revealed:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £,£>£>
1947.. 79,970 5J p.c. = 71,87.5 8,095 1,060,642
From inner reserves, £250,000 .. 1,310,042
1948.. 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,209
1949 .. 101,675 8 „ ~100,000 1,675 1,313,944
1950 .. 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4,678 1,318,622
1951.. 108,008 8 „ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
1952.. 110,344 8 „ „100,00 ff 10,344 1,336,974
1953 .. 124,974 9 „ ~112,500 12,474 1,349,447
Written off premises, etc., £30,000 .. 1,319,447
Share premiums, £187,500 .. .. 1,506,947
1954 .. 163,859 10 p.c. =137,500 26,359 1,533,306
From contingency reserve, £250,000 1,783,306
1955 .. 219,044 10 p.c. =175,000 44,044 1,827,350
1956 .. 214,895 10 „ ~175,000 39,895 1,867,245
Earnings, of which about half would
appear to come from Government
securities (£3,628,009) and Treasury bills
(£2,000,000), equalled 12.2 p.c. of paid
capital, as against 12.5, 11.9, 10 and 8.8
p.c. back to 1952. On total shareholders’
funds the return was a shade under 5.1
p.c. There was no alteration to the 10
p.c. div. rate, reintroduced in 1954 after
a lapse of 15 years, an interim div., at
the same rate, being payable next month.
The accounts show a net tangible
asset-backing of 41s. 4d. for each of the
f.-p. £1 ords., which at 40s. would return
5 p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribution.
Robert Reid and Co., Ltd.
■nEGISTERED in England nearly 60
years ago, Robert Reid and Co.,
Ltd., has given a rather erratic perfor-
mance ever since the head-office was
transferred to Melbourne’s Flinders-lane
in 1919. Originally an importer of soft-
goods, the co. is now mainly concerned
with the merchandising of locally-
produced goods, and, in recent years, has
entered the retail trade through a sub-
sidiary co., Hustlers Pty. The parent
trades in all States, while Hustlers Pty.
operates a chain of 33 drapery stores
(mostly in country centres) in S.A., Vic-
toria, N.S.W. and the A.C.T.
With the expansion of the Australian
textile-industry after the 1914-18 war and
the increase in direct importing the
handling of imported softgoods became
less profitable. The depression of
the early ’thirties didn’t improve
matters, and in 1934 ord. capital
was written-down by 25 p.c. and £162,500
of pref. capital returned. The remaining
prefs. have nnce been converted into
ords., and paid-capital has climbed from
£644,277 in 1948 to £1,462,500, mainly as
a result of par issues, the last of which,
a one-for-five offering, was in November,
’54. The co. reported losses in 1952 and
1953, large stock-adjustments following
the 1951 balance-of-payments crisis,
Import-restrictions limited income
from the importing of the business
last term (to July 31), but the parents’
turnover increased “slightly” to
£9,640,000, while the retailing subsidiary
lifted its net sales by 13 p.c. to £2,992,432.
However, higher wages and expenses
claimed a larger share of the increased
income, and heavier co.-tax ate into the
surplus, net profit falling by £56,664 to
£183,422 after allowing £59,462 (up
£11,811) for depreciation and £127,435
(down £21,870) for taxation:
Parent and Subsidiaries. !
To Re- Re-
July 19, Profit. t — serves. serves.*
£ - £ £ £
Profit sale assets, £2182 .. .. 1,470,0138
Tax overprovided, £20,611 .. 1,495,679
Unexplained addition, £2925 .. 1,498,604
Loss.
’52 . . 35,991 6 p.c.= 73,125 1,389,488
Profit sale assets, £8066 .. .. 1,397,554
From inner reserves, £175,059 .. 1,572,613
’53 . . 12,575 6 p.c.= 73,125 1,486,913
Profit sale assets, £11,675 .. .. 1,498,588
Written off subsidiary, £6580 .. 1,492,008
Long-servioe leave, £40,000 .. 1,452,008
Unexplained reduction. £21,449 .. 1,430,559
July 31, Profit.
’54 .. 302,517 10 p.c.=121,875 180,642 1,611,201
Profit sale assets, £7966 .. .. 1,619,167
Long-service leave, £6OOO .. .. 1,614,167
Unexplained reduction, £9684 .. 1.604,483
’55 .. 240,086 10 p.c.=146,250 93,836 1,698.319
Profit sale assets, £3474 .. .. 1,701,793
Tax'overprovided, £17,736 i. .. 1,719,529
From sub. pension-fund, £23,387.. 1,742,916
To staff fund, £6817 .J .. .. 1,736,099
Unexplained reduction, £2699 .. 1,733,400
’56 .. 155.422 10 p.c.=146,280 37,142 1,770,542
* Subject to intangibles, £72,079 at 31/7/’56.
The div., unchanged at 10 p.c., took 79.7
p.c. of the earnings, adjustments, includ-
ing the transfer of a subsidiary’s pension-
fund, providing £35,081 of the net £72,223
added to reserves. The profit equalled a
return of 12.5 p,c. from paid capital com-
pared with 16.4 p.c. and 24.8 p.c. in the
two preceding years.
Normally a trader’s largest and most;
vulnerable asset, stocks are in the balance-
sheet at the lower of costs or market-
value and, at £2,722,445 (down £246,769),
account for 56.7 p.c. of the value given
to total assets: —
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,218,750 £1,462,500 £1,462,500
Reserves .. .. 1,611,201 1,698,319 1,770.542
Mortgage .. .. 115,000 125,000 203,800
Deposits .. .. 100,055 262,746
Overdraft .. .. 215,946 726,309 465,176
Creditors, etc. .. 1,353,361 480,036 379,197
Staff leave .. ' 39,089 42,163 38.366
Tax provision .. 107,401 159,068 128,876
Final div. .. 85,312 102,375 87.750
£4,746,060 £4,895,825 £4,798,953
Freehold, etc. .. 365,192 419,642 527,011
Fittings, etc. .'. 173,650 216,299 251,592
Shares .. .. 4,627 4,627 4,627
Stock, etc. .. 3,051,807 2,969,214 2,722,445
Debtors .. .. 1,049,629 1,150,901 1,159,916
Prepayments .. —. 52,402 49,242
Cash/ bonds .. 31,918 10,562 12,041
Intangibles .. 69,237 72,178 72,079
£4,746,000 £4,895,825 £4,798,953
Hustlers Pty. opened three new branches
during the term and the ccst-/ey.y-
depreciation value of freeholds increased
by £107,369. An additional £78,800 was
borrowed under mortgage to help finance
the subsidiary's expansion. Cash on
deposit with the co.—a counter to the
shortage of bank-credit—rose by
£162,691, while the overdraft was
reduced by £261,133 and £77,452
trimmed-off the amount owing to
creditors. (In the preceding term the
figure against creditors included a
£23,387 pension-fund, since transferred
to reserves). There was a slight contrac-
tion in working-capital (down £14,927
at £2,575,365) during the term.
As the co. handles a high proportion
of locally-produced goods, turnover is
not directly dependent on import-
licences, and earnings in the current term
are more likely to be influenced by the


Federal Government’s “tight”-money
policy and its effects on retail trading.
The consolidated accounts show a net
cover of 435. 4d. for the f.-p. £1 ords.
which, at 245. 9d., would return 8.1 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. distribution.
Sutex Industries, Ltd.
Sutex Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Sept. ,f Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
7J & 5\ p.e_
Revaluation assets, £160,000 .. .. 314,741
Profit sale assets, £2lOB .. .. 316,849
Preliminary exes., £3082 .. .. 313,767
1951.. 74.976 8,922 12-J p.c. = 41,891 24,163 337,930
Profit sale assets, £2441 .. .. 340,371
Unexplained increase, £B3B .. .. 341,209
1952.. 175 9,812 9 p.c. = 44,811 8,552 349,761
Profit sale assets, £12,612 . . . . 362,373
To bad debts provision, £2OOO .. 360,373
1953.. 085 9,813 9 p.c. = 44,810 23,462 383,835
Added reserves, £3455 . . . . . . 387,290
Profit sale assets, etc., £2130 .. 389,420
1954.. 077 9,813 12 p.c. = 59,748 23,516 412,936
Added reserves, £177,135 ~ .. 590,071
Profit sale assets, etc., £1937 .. 592,008
1955.. 90.783 9,812 11 p.c. = 68,626 12,345 604,353
Share-issue expenses, £1250 .. .. 603,103
From investment fluctuation reserve,
irrecoverable debt written-off in
subsid.’s accounts, £4498 .. .. 598,605
Unexplained addition, £169'... .. 598,774
7j[ & 5) p.c.
7 p.c.
1956.. 89811.109 5 p.c. = 31,193 7,596 606,370
•After deducting intangibles, £BOOO at 30/9/’56.
t Includes results of operating cos. to June 80.
AFTER making only one distribution
to ord. shareholders last year (of
5 p.c., compared with a total of 11 p.c.
in 1955), Sutex Industries has declared a
4 p.c. interim dividend for the current
term, and thus borne out the encourag-
ing report concerning prospects made
by the co.’s chairman, Herbert Abrahams,
at the annual meeting in December.
Last term there was a drop in the
gross earnings of the business, mainly
because of competition from large
quantities of imported goods, operating
expenses increased, and net profit was
almost halved. But for the fact that the
tax-liability appears to have been cal-
culated on a lower basis, the result would
have been even less than the £49,898
(down £40,885) claimed.
Here is how the figure is arrived at:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Gross trading profit .. £217,950 £235,438 £187,070
Other income .. .. 5,504 10,861 5,040
£223,454 £246,299 £192,110
Administrative expenses 58,270 78,170 84,640
Depreciation . . .. 26,355 35,900 45,580
Tax provision .. .. 45,752 41,446 11,992
Net profit .. .. £93,077 £90,783 £49,898
The latest profit leaves out of account
£1250 expenses of issuing £50,000 of 7
p.c. cum. prefs. to the T. and G. Society,
and the writing-off in one of the sub-
sidiaries’ accounts of an old debt of
£4498. '
Some writing-down of stock-values also
appears to have been necessary; but this
was covered by “certain price-fluctua-
tion provisions” created in earlier years.
After allowing for the increased pref.-
charges, the co. showed a return of 6.2 p.c.
in its unchanged £623,865 ord. capital, as
against 13 p.c. in 1955, 16.7 p.c. 1954,
13.7 p.c. 1953 and 10.7 p.c. in 1952.
The following list presents a bird’s-
eye-view of the working subsidiaries of
the organisation:
Sutex Pty., Ltd. (Richmond, Vic. ; Hobart,
Tas.), worsted-spinner, -weaver and -manufac-
turer of full-fashioned stockings, Catalina swim-
and playwear, and knitwear.
It controls textile-wholesalers Sutex Distri-
butors Pty., Ltd. (Melbourne and Hobart), and
Sutex (Q’land) Pty., Ltd. (Brisbane); knitwear-
and swimwear-manufacturers Sutex (Bendigo)
Pty., Ltd. (Bendigo, Vic.); chenille-manufac-
turers Australian Chenille Pty., Ltd. (Haw-
thorn, Vic.); B. J. Davis Pty., Ltd. ; J. C.
Smith (Pty.), Ltd. ; and Derwent Park
Estates Pty., Ltd.
There are also Auswool Shawls Pty., Ltd.
(Hawthorn, Vic.), manufacturers of baby shawls,
etc., and Riverhart Pty., Ltd. (Huntingdale,
Vic.), worsted-yarn spinners.
The last to be absorbed into the group,
Riverhart Pty., was bought during the
1955 term for £8675 cash and £125,965
(par-value) of Sutex ord. scrip. Since
the purchase, Sutex’s worsted-spinning
plant has been transferred from
Richmond to Huntingdale, and now it is
planned to put up a new building along-
side the mill to house the Hobart
spinning - and - weaving plant. The
Tasmanian freehold has been sold to Silk
and Textile Printers, Ltd., for a “satis-
factory” figure, and the transfer of
machinery is expected to be completed
by about September. The co. hopes to
make considerable savings in freight and
other costs by the move.
More new fine-gauge fully-fashioned
hosiery knitting-machines were installed
last year, and a start was made on the
production of American Catalina-style
swimwear and playwear.
The most noticeable feature of the
balance-sheet was the all-round reduction
in the current items of trade. Debtors
were down £73,607, stock was £97,976
lighter, overdraft was down £129,922 and
there were £72,091 fewer creditors:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. .. ... £175,000 £175,000 £225,000
Ord 497,900 623,865 623,865
Reserves .. .. 420,936 612,653 614,370
Secured loan .. 75,000 133,500 153,750
Deferred liability 65,548 56,844 51,340
Overdraft . . .. 204,962 458,183 328.261
Creditors, etc. .. 237,724 269,533 197,442
Staff fund . . 17,406 14,772_ 14,615
Inter-co. suspense 5,009 6,635
Final div. .. 34,817 36,766 34,943
£1,734,302 £2,387,751 £2,243,586
Freeholds .. 353,182 493,754 501,086
Plant .. .. 186,310 360,041 361,717
Investments 1 .. 60,424 60,680 60,934
Stocks, etc. .. 816,557 1,132,515 1,030,125
Debtors, etc. . . 309,618. 332,510 258,903
Inter-co. suspense ' 22,555
Cash .. .. 211 251 266
Intangibles ' .. 8,000, 8,000 8,000
£1,734,302 £2,387,751 £2,243,586
The new pref. capital will be redeemed
in instalments of 20,000 10s. shares a year
for five years beginning July 1, 1962.
Including the scrip, net tangible asset
cover for the prefs. (all classes) was
£3 4s. Bd., and for the ords. 9s. lid.
According to the interim report issued
earlier in the month orders in hand will
keep the co.’s mills busy for some time.
The easing of import-restrictions,
however, means that Australian textiles
will soon be in for renewed competition
from abroad. Licences for all -B-cate-
gory goods, including finished piecegoods,
have been increased by 66f p.c. and
quotas made interchangeable.
The local industry’s application for
heavier duties on woollen and worsted
cloths is still before the Tariff Board.
Rosella Preserving
A CONSISTENTLY good profit-
winner, Rosella Preserving and
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., displayed
something of its true strength last term
when it trotted-out a previously “hidden”
stock-reserve of £450,000 and added
£420,832 to the book-value of freeholds
to bring it more in line with present-day
values. The adjustments were not purely
for display purposes, £400,000 of the
revaluation reserve going to shareholders
in the form of free 10s. ords. distributed
on a generous two-for-three basis.
Rosella products were first manufac-
tured in 1895, the present co. taking over
the business in 1910. Today the co. and
its subsidiaries turn-out a wide range of
jams, canned-fruits, condiments and a
variety of other tinned-foods at (seven)
factories in Victoria, N.S.W., South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania.
Share-issues (at a 50 p.c. premium) in
1949 and 1951 added £200,000 to paid
capital, which, with last term’s £400,000
bonus, now totals £1,000,000 —all in 10s.
ords. Over the last 10 years divs. have
averaged 12| p.c.
Modern plant and equipment have
helped the co. to hold-down the labor-
content of its costs, and one of the main
difficulties encountered last term (to
September 30, ’56) appears to have been
the shortage of some fruits following the
extensive floods. This shortage resulted
in the reduced production of a number
of the co.’s best-selling lines, and, while
only a small proportion of output is
exported, competition and trade-barriers
(particularly in India) cut export-sales
“appreciably.”
Net earnings, claimed after providing
an extra £16,928 for taxation (£165,613)
and £56,809 (up £1332) for depreciation,
dropped by £28,129, but, at £222,147, still
represented a handy 37 p.c. on pre-bonus
capital, or 22.2 p.c. on the present
£1,000,000 figure. Net profit equalled
25.6 p.c. on capital in 1952, 24.9 p.c. in
’53, 31.3 p.c. in ’54 and 41.7 p.c. in the
recbrd ’55 term:-^
Rosella Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. f —Dividends— ■, serves.- serves.*
£ £ £ £
1950.. 91,566 12J p.c. = 62,500 29,066 386.375
Share premiums, £50,000 .. .. 436,375
1951. . .131,683 12* p ; c. = 63,542 68,141 504,518
Share premiums, £425 .. .. 504,941
1952.. 154,089 12* p.c. = 75,000 79,089 584,030
1953.. 149,376 12* „ „ 75,000 74,376 658,406
1954.. 188,150 171 „ ~105,000 83,150 741,556
Tax overprovided, £23,825 .. .. 765,381
1955.. 250,276 17* p.c. =105,000 145,276 910,657
Freeholds revalued, £420,832 .. 1,331,489
Reserves capitalised, £400,000 .. 931,489
Profit'sale assets, £222 .. .. 931,711
From inner (stock) reserve, £450,000 1,381,711
Tax overprovided, £12,296 .. .. 1,394,007
1956.. 222,147 15 p.c. =105,000 117,147 1,511,154
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,508 at Sept. 30, 1956.
Less than half of the earnings went in
divs., and, although the total amount dis-
tributed was unchanged, the diV:-rate was
dropped from p.c. to 15 p.c., with 3|
p.c. on the bonus-scrip. A continued 15
p.c. distribution should not prove too
difficult; it would call for £150,000, or
£72,147 less than the amount earned last
term.
By bringing to light the £450,000 stock-
reserve, revaluing freeholds and retaining
a large share of earnings, the board was
able to show a slight improvement in the
ratio between published reserves and paid


OPES
of every type
and size
Famous for many years as
Queensland’s premier
manufacturers of en-
velopes we produce
the well known
"JAXUL” PATENT CLEAR-
FACE WINDOW Envelopes
In sizes 5f ins. x 3j Ins.,
61 x 3| and 9 ins. x 4 ins.
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED Envelopes
in all sizes, No. I to No. 8
Plain or Printed.
COMMERCIAL Envelopes
in all standard sizes and
qualities, plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application.
Jackson & O’Sullivan [|j;
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers and Printers
804 - 306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —A ovt.
V
0
How
about my
LfFE
■ v — a r
Remind Dad about a Child's
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education of launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. <'«• *• «>*• »*>
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
capital despite the size of the
bonus-issue. Finances are com-
fortable, and at the end of the
term shareholders’ funds
equalled 83.7 p.c. of the balance-
sheet totals:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956.
Capital ~ £600,000 £1,OOo!oOO
Reserves ... .. 910,657 1,511,154
Creditors .. .. 215,597 201,508
Staff fund. . .. 15,000 15,000
Tax provision .. 148,685 165,383
Final div 105,000 105,000
£1,994,939 £2,998,045
Property .. 351,303 780,845
Plant, etc. .. 212,890 202,071
Stocks .. 863,637 1.281,134
Debtors .. .. 228,695 278,344
Cffsh, etc 307,906 425,143
Goodwill, etc. .. 30,508 30,508
£1,994,939 £2,998,045
Although trading conditions
generally tended to reduce
liquidity, Rosella was able to
increase its holdings of cash, etc.,
by £117,237 to £425,143 and
reduce the amount owing to
creditors by £14,089. Debtors
(up £49,649) increased by 21 p.c.,
working-capital (with the stock-
reserve transferred) jumping
from £924,762 to £1,505,674.
The consolidated accounts
show a net tangible asset back-
ing of 245. lOd. for each f.-p.
10s. unit, which, at 285., would
return 5.3 p.c. from a 15 p.c.
div.
W. H. Paling and Co., Ltd.
SOMETHING of an institu-
tion in the musical life of
Sydney, the more-than-100-years-
old business of W. H. Paling and
Co., Ltd., has dropped from
favor as an investment stock
over the last _few years because
of the disappointing turn of
trading results.
The co. cashed-in on the
strong post-war demand for
musical instruments and
domestic appliances in very
profitable fashion, and in 1950,
to consolidate its position in
Brisbane, it bought all the issued
capital of competitor G. J.
Grice, Ltd., for something over
£78,000 of its own f.-p. 18s.
shares. Next year the co.
raised the paid-up value of all
its scrip to 205., and then as a
gift handed-out £103,845 capital
on the basis of one for five.
Simultaneously, it offered a like
amount of new scrip for cash
at par. Thus, within two years,,
paid capital was lifted by
£337,442 to £726,763.
Then in 1952 the boom came
to an end, the co.’s turnover
and profit fell away sharply
and the dividend was cut in
halves, reducing it to 5 p.c.
The following year lower
rates of sales-tax helped to
revive business activity, though
the tight clamp on imports kept
supplies of musical-instruments
short, and the lifted its div.
to 6 p.c. (to p.c. in 1954).
The recovery was short-
lived. Caught with heavy
stocks of refrigerators just as
demand was contracting, Palings
lost around £30,000 in this sec-
tion of the business and net
earnings were set back by 29 p.c.
Last term imported goods
were scarcer, demand for
appliances remained slack, and
net profit edged back £2480
further to £37,868:
Parent Co.
Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends——, serves.
£ £ £
1949. . 55,661 11.1 p.c. = 43,258 176,655
1950.. 77,437 11.1 „ ~48,672 205,420
To bad debts provision, £6757 198,663
Revaluation assets, £170,653 369,316
Reserves capitalised, £155,749 213,567
1951.. 90,709 10 p.c. = 60,434 243,842
To bad debts prov’n, £lO,OOO 233,842
1952..43,814 5 p.c. = 36,338 241,318
W. H. Paling and Subsidiaries.
Added on consolid’n, £28,833 270,151
1953.. 53,618 6 p.c. = 43,606 280,163
Intangibles written-off, £363.. 279,800
Unexplained reduction, £123.. 279,677
1954..56,791 7 p.c. = 50,87.3 285,495
1955..40,348 5 ~36,338 289,505
1956..37,868 5 ~ ~36,338 291,035
Written after £8269 (up £978)
depreciation and an approxi-
mately £2OOO bigger but unspeci-
fied tax-provision, the £37,868
was equal to 5.2 p.c. on capital,
as against 5.6 p.c. the year
before. The 5 p.c. div. was thus
barely met from current
earnings.
Despite the difficulties the
year finished with working-
capital more or -less intact at
£397,019 (£417,728 at the end
of 1955):
Consolidated Figures.
1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £726,763 £726,763
Reserves . . .. 289,505 291,035
Overdraft.. .. 175,930 130,788
Creditors ... .. 305,236 320,943
Tax, provision .. 25,893 '28,558
Final div 36,338 36,338
£1,559,665 £1,534,425
Freeholds . . .. 531,015 534,136
Plant, etc... .. 62,436 75,354
Shares, debentures 5,089 11,289
.Stocks .. .. '477,574 504,69 p
Debtors .. .. 481,119 406,263
Cash, etc... .. 2,432 2,688
£1,559,665 £1,534,425
Alterations and improvements
to branch premises cost a net
£16,039. As an extra revenue-
getting proposition the co. is
considering plans to build an
arcade of shops through its
main Sydney property from
George-street to Ash-street, one
of the busy little back thorough-
fares behind Martin - place.
Finance for the project would be
provided from the sale of the
co.’s Pitt-street freehold.
In the meantime the co. will
get immediate benefit from the
recent adjustment to import
quotas, up 66f p.c. for musical
instruments.
On ’Change the f.-p. £1 shares
fetch 13s. to return 7.7 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
asset cover is 28s. a share.
United Uranium,-N.L.
AS anticipated (B. 20/2/’57),
the first divs. from an
Australian uranium-mine will
go to shareholders in Northern
Uranium Development, N.L.,
and Uranium Mines, N.L. On
May 31 both these cos. will
pay a div. of Is. on their ss.
shares, of which the majority
are called to 4s. Divs. from
uranium-mining are tax-free.
The mining profit came from
the sale of pitchblende concen-
trates won from the Elsharana
mine (N.T.), which is operated
by the jointly-owned United
Uranium, N.L. By the end of
last term (December 31) about
half of the quantity of con-
centrates called for under con-
tract had been shipped, and
delivery of the balance will
begin next July.
If negotiations with the
Commonwealth Government for
an access-road and a transport-
subsidy are successful —and the
directors expect they will be—
regular divs. are forecast for the
next five or six years, without
allowing for possible extensions
to the ore-body. Ore-reserves
are estimated at 100,244 tons of
developed ore, going 0.43 p.c.
uranium-oxide, and 7935 tons of
probable ore, averaging 0.27 p.c.
Both parent cos. show revenue
from the sale of - concentrates
at £261,572. After deducting
mining and milling charges and
the proportion of overhead,


*
tfMMMfaj*
registered
fIRST
mortgage
DEBEHTURE
STOCK
7
SO
o
ANNUM
for
years
OTHER TERMS
AVAILABLE
2 YEARS TO
20 YEARS
SEE
PROSPECTUS
Fixed quarterly Income free of
exchange.
Principal paid in full on maturity.
Principal paid in full before
maturity in certain circumstances
—refer Prospectus.
The largest asset backing of all
finance companies in Australia.
Assets exceed £40,000,000.
Underwriting Brokers to the issue:
lAN POTTER & CO., Melbourne,
Sydney and Canberra.
Trustee for the Debenture Stock-
holders: The Perpetual Executors
& Trustees Association of Australia
Limited.
Requests for a Prospectus may be made to
MMBERS OF STOCK EXCHANGES and all Branches of the E.S. ft A. BANK
LIMITED, NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA Ltd., and
Australia’s Leading Hire Purchase Organisation
16.4
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
to COLLINS PLACE. MELBOURNE. MF6121.
Circular Chartj for all type)
of Recording Instrument)
for any clan of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURAC/ GUARANTEED
JACKSOW O'SIfLLIVANf^
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... ... ... 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. ; .. 22/6
etc., applicable to production,
the mining profit for N.U.D.
was £231,345, Uranium Mines
claiming £232,000. However, if
all expenses incurred during the
term are deducted, N.U.D.’s
profit is reduced to £152.431
and that of Uranium Mines to
£153,286. In each case the divs.
will require £77,500.
A combined total of £549,474
has been spent by the cos. on
prospecting, mine-development,
etc. Uranium Mines has sold
Its 200,000 10s. vendor-shares in
Ravensthorpe Copper Mines,
N.L., for £35,000, and the
directors propose to distribute
this to shareholders at the rate
of 5.42 d. per share,
Plans for the • merger of the
operating and parent cos. were
announced last week, involving
the purchase by United Uranium
of the parent cos.’ capital.
United Uranium will exchange
one f.-p. ss. share for each ss.
share in the other cos., both of
which have an issued capital of
1,550,000 ss. shares all paid to
4s. with the exception of 50,000
f.-p. vendor shares in N.U.D.
The parent cos. will be liquidated
after the merger, and, presum-
ably, United Uranium will apply
for Stock Exchange listing.
Last sales of N.U.D. scrip
brought 10s. 4d., Uranium
Mines shares changing hands
at 10s. 3d.
N.A.U.C.
'T'HE board of North Aus-
tralian Uranium Corp.,
N.L., has announced that its
plans for the 1957 “dry” season
include, “as far as possible, the
disposing of available ore.”
Earlier the directors had
stated that the pitchblende
uncovered on the co.’s leases
would be retained, as Its value,
if it were decided to erect a
treatment-plant, would, in their
opinion, greatly exceed the
immediate benefit arising from
its sale. It is understood, how-
ever, that the move to sell the
ore reflects a change in policy
rather than any decision on the
treatment-plant.
Encouraging results were
reported by the co. last term
from the Milestone (N.T.) area
south of the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, where its authority to pros-,
pect covers something like 2000
square miles. Tests over six
months ago proved the existence
of some high-grade ore, but little
information, has been released
since.
An “intensive programme”
planned for the current year
includes “further exploration to
confirm the extent of the co.’s
ore-reserves.” Low-grade ore
encountered earlier in the
South Alligator Valley did not
justify the erection of a treat-
ment-plaqt, but may be worth
mining and shipping to Rum-
Jungle.
N.A.U.C. has a paid capital
of £1,137,500, the big Atlas
Corp. of America buying a
50 p.c. share-interest in 1955.
The f.-p. ss. shares last sold at
4s. lid.
Rutile Corporation
TjEOPLE seeking a prospectus
of the Rutile Corporation of
Australia, Ltd. (B. 17/4/’57), are
being told by the brokers,
Claude R. Varley and Co., that
on moneys subscribed in Queens-
land Rutile Corporation has gone
to allotment, the minimum
amount having been subscribed
in that State.
Rutile Corp. is at present pre-
paring for the erection of its
plants in N.S.W., the letter says.
The Varley letter goes on: —
No doubt you will have seen from
recent press-reports that since the
issue of this prospectus the co. has
secured an option to purchase the
mining rights over a large area of
Fraser Island. Geological survey
over a portion of this area carried
out under the direct supervision of
the eminent geological authority
F. W. Whitehouse, Ph.D., D.Sc.,
has proved the presence of 57,950
tons of rutile, 96,065 tons of iron-
free zircon, and 75,720 tons of
chrome-free ilmenite. It is considered
that such reserves will place this co.
amongst the foremost of the world’s
rutile-producers.
We desire to point out that, since
the compilation of this prospectus, the
price of rutile has been reduced to
somewhere between £6O to £7O per
ton; even at this price the undertak-
ing is expected to be quite profitable.
As the moneys raised in this issue
are for the financing of projects as set
out in the enclosed prospectus, the
complete finalisation of the Fraser
Island purchase cannot be achieved
from the proceeds of this issue;
consequently a further issue is to be
made for the purpose of working this
area. However, subscribers to the
present issue will be given certain
prior rights in the subsequent issue
to be made.
What began, in the prospectus,
as a bits-and-pieces story of the
Rutile Corporation’s venture,
gets rather more bits-and-piecey
as operations go along. The
brokers are apparently speaking
for the company in their letter ;
but if a prospectus is to be
circulated at all the present one
had better be withdrawn,
brought up-to-date, and its
vagueness as to capital and plant
arrangements replaced by some-
thing specific.
Ravensthorpe Copper Mines
r T' I HE directors of Ravensthorpe
Copper Mines, N.L.,
reported early this month that
the treatment-plant was “now in
continuous operation.” Although
the co., formerly Western
Uranium Mines, N.L., has got
into production at a time of
extremely low copper prices,
arrangements have been made
for the sale of the first year’s
production of copper concentrate
at prices “better than expected.”
The 10s. contribs., paid to 5s. t
last sold at 4s. 2d.
Moina Tungsten-Tin
The directors of Moina Tung-
sten-Tin Mining Co., N.L., have
decided to petition the court to
have the co. wound up.
Liabilities are stated to be
approximately £lB,OOO.


PERSONAL STATIONERY
In high-quality Cream Wove Paper printed with your name
and address oh Bxs note paper and on flap of envelope
(as requested by P.M.G. Dept.).
IDEAL GIFT STATIONERY
When ordering, print your requirements in block letters
Attractively packed in plain box, 100 Note Sheets
and 100 Envelopes . . , , . . ; . 35/
Exclusive to
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
SYDNEY
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
r pHE decision to suspend the
shipbuilding and engineer-
ing unions’ strikes was a near
thing. It depended upon a
casting - vote, representing
a million strikers, and the
courage of the president of the
A.E.U. in standing-out for
commonsense and respon-
sibility. The meeting broke up
in disorder and the maligned
chairman needed police pro-
tection from the Communist-
provoked crowd between the
building and his car.
Apart from natural thank-
fulness at the return to work,
there are no firm grounds for
optimism as to a settled peace
in these industries. The deci-
sion to go back wasn’t even a
simple matter of weighing right
against wrong or of truth
against error. There were
three strong practical reasons
why a continuance would
embarrass the unions: the men
needed money for the Easter
holiday; the next move in
the engineers’ “guerrilla” strike
was to the uneasy Midlands,
where, because of part-time
working, there might have
been difficulty in persuading
the men to come out; and'
most urgent of all, the strike-
funds were running down.
The workers had in their
minds the assumptions that a
5 p.c. increase was a matter of
course and that the court of
inquiry might award more, if
they could come to a bargain
over some slight modification
of restrictive practices.
From the evidence given, it
seems unlikely that the confu-
sion and bad feeling on both
sides of the shipbuilding
industry will be composed by
the court’s findings. For the
disclosure of parochial
ignorance and stupidity on the
part of organised labor faf
tX£c e d S thaif ‘which was
expected in an industry already
notorious for its restrictive
practices and demarcation
agreements. Such instances as
disputes between shipwrights
and joiners dragging on for
two years and any disciplinary
approach over time-wasting
being met with an instant
threat of a walk-out must be as
sojely trying to impartial
adjudicators as they are des-
pairing to public opinion—the
more so since, by co-operation
and the recognition of up-to-
date techniques, the workers
themselves stand to gain in
prosperity instead of prejudic-
ing their future.
Savings
Even without the Budget,
this is the time of year, for
a profligacy of White Papers
and statistics: the Economic
Survey, the preliminary Esti-
mates, the report on last year
and the forecast for next,
follow hard upon each other.
Out of this quite, indiges-
tible feast, part healthy and
part otherwise but on the
whole better than was expected,
it is encouraging to learn that
personal savings have increased
—by no less than 48 p.c. over
1955-56. The new total of
£l4Bl million represents 10
p.c. of all disposable personal
income.
This high figure is, perhaps,
misleading if taken at its face-
value, for it is offset by such
factors, peculiar to the year
under survey, as' house-build-
ing and the investment of
private business (£650 million),
by the clearing of hire-pur-
chase debts, mortgages and
overdrafts (£l5O million) and
by the switching of money
from one kind of investment
to another.
An instance of the . latter is
the £9O-million increase in
National Savings. The “safe
flutter” of premium-bonds and
the transfer of deposits from
building-societies to Post Office
and Trustee Savings Banks,
where up to £l5 of interest is
tax-free, probably account for
most of the surplus. But the
£5OO million of pension contri-
tributions is real and con-,
siderable.
If the Government could
only make voluntary savings
worth while, not so much by
SniC’dS devices or artificially
rates of interest as by
holding the purchasing-power
of the £ in check, the response
might well be surprising.
From Far and Wide
Our theatre, often contrary
and always unaccountable, is
at present not merely un-
English ; it has gone cos-
mopolitan.
Edwige Feuillere and her
company are packing the vast,
old-fashioned Palace with three
French plays,- including two
classics, the redoubtable
“Phedre” and the inevitable
“La Dame aux Camelias.”
Feuillere herself is the draw,
and audiences are acting as
self-appointed assessors of the
claim, not of her own making,
that she is the world’s greatest
living actress. Another French
play, “Fin de Partie,” by
Samuel Beckett, has had a
premiere at the Royal Court.
One wonders what strange
sequence of events has brought
the Polish State Jewish Com-
pany to another big theatre, the
Winter Garden, in a cycle of
plays which, both in language
(Yiddish) and in 'idiom, must
have limited appeal.
Tennessee Williams will soon
be running concurrently,
publicly with “Camino Real”
at the Phoenix and “privately”
with “Tea and Sympathy” at
the Comedy. (This latter play,
although inoffensive to Mel-
bourne, is apparently con-
sider e d by the Lord
Chamberlain as fit for a
“Members Only” theatre; its
predecessor, “A View from the
Bridge,” is coming off after the
remarkably long run of 221
performances.)
The world of unashamed
show-business is not without
its anxieties, both here and,on
Broadway. Drury Lane lost
£40,000 on “Plain and Fancy”
and had to pass its dividend.
Perhaps the heyday . of the
American musical, which
began with “Oklahoma” and
“Annie Get Your Gun,” is
over, for the current produc-
tion at the Lane, “Fanny,” was
only tepidly received. The
directors of the Coliseum are
hoping for better luck with
their latest importations,
“Damn Yankees.” They must
also have private qualms about
its 100 p.c. Yankee-doodledum,
for it deals with baseball and a
Faustian coach who sells him-
self to the Devil (played in this
instance by Bill Kerr, the Boy
from Wagga Wagga). How,
one wonders, would Broadway
take “Flannelled Fools, or the
Last Man In”?
The arrival of an all-Aus-
tralian copp iny m aif
indigenous Australian play is
something of an event. “The
Doll” has opened in Notting-
ham and will come to the West
End after a short tour. Some
of the players won’t forget
their unpropitious journey, for
plane trouble caused both
trepidation and delay. Their
late arrival at London Airport
was unfortunate both for its
chilly and friendless hour
(3.25 a.m.) and for denying
them the publicity that was
their due. It is encouraging to
learn that they are not alone
as pioneers in an unfamiliar
land, for John Hall’s play
about Westralia, “The Lizard
on the Rock,” is due for presen-
tation by the Birmingham Rep.
in July.
Firebrand
Henry de Montherlant’s
“Malatesta” (Lyric Theatre,
Hammersmith) acts better than
“The Master of Santiago,”
although it is just as over-
loaded and intense. There is
more action and also more
light and shade. Even Tam-
burlaine was not fuller-blooded
than Malatesta, XVth-century
Lord of Rimini, to whom
killing for killing’s sake,
debauchery and idolatry are
habitual where rape and incest
are occasional. Piqued by the
Pope and with murder on his
lips, he leaves the ancestral
home and a very sweet wife.
Pope Paul is the shade astuter
and makes him prisoner, later
to let him out on parole after
the pleading of the wife.
Malatesta’s death is as
ignominious as his leave at
Rimini is short, for he is
poisoned by the captive scholar
who is writing, under duress,
a rose-tinted biography of him
for the benefit of posterity.
The production (by Andrew
Leigh and Donald Wolfit) has
some inspired touches. Ernest
Milton is a mannered but
cunning and subtly trenchant
Pope. Rosalind Iden blends
tenderness with firm purpose
as the good wife Isotta. Wol-
fit, loud in anger, flamboyant
in victory, defiant i«
afiori and* mealy-mouthed in
lechery, fairly spits out his
mettlesome ardor ; and he dies
slowly, dragging his toes and
gibbering as he dies.


HOW GREEN IS OUR GREEN-BELT?
TT is proverbial that greenness, like
enchantment, grows with distance;
even Erin’s green isle becomes more
verdant when viewed across an expanse
of ocean and years. For that reason a
map of the Cumberland County Plan
(N.S.W.) would probably seem more
restful to the eyes of an observer in Alice
Springs or South Dakota than to a pro-
perty-owner in an outer-Sydney suburb
whose “desirable building blocks” have
been frozen because they happen to be
situated in an area the planners have
designated as green belt. And the
affection felt by an Irish exile for the
green hills of Connemara has nothing at
all in common with the injurious-
affection claims of the householder who,
on examining the map, discovers that at
some undetermined date in the future an
expressway will run
clean through his pro-
perty, wiping-out his
front lawn, his rose-
bushes, his sun-porch
and two-thirds of his
front bedroom.
This is possibly why
Denis Winston, Pro-
fessor of Town and
Country Planning at
the University of
Sydney, in writing
Sydney's Great Ex-
periment (Angus and
Robertsop ; 375. 6d.),
describing the progress
of the Cumberland
County Plan, does not
address himself exclu-
sively to the people of
Sydney or New South
Wales, but to the
world-at-large. And
wisely so. To those
who know not Sydney
the book presents an in-
teresting, even fasci-
nating, picture of
Sydney’s past, present
and planned and un-
planned future the.
first two phases illus-
trated by photographs,
the last by colored
m2ps and by photo-
graphs doctored to pro-
vide possible glimpses of tomorrow or the
day after. Sydney readers who may
pick up the book with already established
prejudice against the plan may be able to
view it more objectively if they can
bring themselves, to pretend they are
reading about La Paz or San Diego.
Alternatively, they may prefer to pretend
they are in one of those cities, reading
about a Sydney they have never seen.
A Pleasant Land
Professor Winston should be well-
equipped to take a detached view of
Sydney’s growing-pains. English-born,
he spent most of his adult life in London,
Liverpool, Belfast and New York,
partly in practice as an architect,
partly as a university lecturer and partly
as a local-government town-planner.
However, after eight years at Sydney
University he has formed an attachment
for Sydney sufficiently strong to impel
him to use the possessive “our” as
though he really, means it when he talks
of Sydney’s problems— to take pride in
“our” beaches and climate and to feel
real concern for “our” future. No dyed-
in-the-wool Bondi beachcomber could be
more enthusiastic in his praise of Sydney
as a place to live in.
There is clearly a very good reason for the
embarrassing desire of more and more
people to settle within the County of
Cumberland —it is one of the most attractive
living-areas in the world... .Here lies the
secret- —as much as in the economics of
industry—for the failure of any large-scale
natural movement.towards decentralisation;
Land-use planning in Revesby area near George’s River.
the fact is , thsf Sydney is a deal
pleasanter than most other places to IIVS
in from the average person’s point of view.
Winston’s argument is that we can’t
prevent more people wanting to share in
the pleasure of living in the County of
Cumberland —the semicircle of hinter-
land, north, west and south of Sydney
and bounded by the Hawkesbury, Nepean
and Cataract rivers—but that as increased
population means the opening-up of.
new areas for homebuilding we should
reserve the .right to say which areas
should be so used ; which allocated for
factories and industrial development;
which reserved for market-gardening,
poultry-farming and other green-belt
activities.
This principle was more -or - less
accepted long before the Cumberland
County Council was established. The
difficulty, with more than 40 municipal
bodies involved, lay in implementing it
without having all local - authority
swamped by the State Government.
Cumberland County Council
The setting-up of the Cumberland
County Council, composed of 10
members elected by the local-governing
bodies in the area, was a compromise
designed to remove these fears. A Greater
Sydney, within the limits of its charter,
would have had power to carry out all
the developmental works the present
municipalities are empowered to do. The
County Council, apart from its negative
power to freeze and forbid, is mainly a
planning and advising authority; the
responsibility of financing and carrying-
out the proposed, public works involved
rests with various councils, departments,,
boards and commissions.
The County Council is, however,
responsible for approval of developments
which affect the general plan. These
include (1) the green-belt; (2) special-use
areas provided for important institutions
and large installations ; (3) land subject
to reservation or restriction for open
spaces, county roads and railways ; (4)
controlled access-roads ; (5) restriction of
ribbon development in certain cases ; (6)
foreshore scenic-protection areas, and
places of scientific or historic interest;
(7) lands of the Crown 'or of any public-
utility undertaking. Councils are respon-
sible for administering the land-use zones
of the living-areas and so on.
Explaining that the plan aims at making
the County of Cumberland a
pleasanter, healthier, safer place to live in
and one that will be more economic and
efficient for business, Professor Winston
says the methods adopted can be
summed-up as co-ordination, consolida-
tion and conservation.
Co-ordination: the convenient arrange-
ment of homes, properly related to each
other and to work-places, shops, schools,
transport and public services so that less
time and money will be wasted in moving
people and goods to and fro, so that homes
can be served conveniently by public fcrans- '
port and so there will always be a good
open space or playing-field within reason-
able reach.
Consolidation: the filling-up of vacant
subdivisions and the provision of sewerage
and other services to existing built-up areas
—finishing them off properly as it were,
before using up more market-garden or
farm areas and half-developing further
scattered estates on the edges of existing
deYelopiuenl*
Conservation: preserving the f?s9urces
of the county, both natural and man-made
best scenery beaches... .native
flowers and useful forests.... as many acres
of farm-land as possible... .sites for fftture
schools and hospitals and the most suitable
land for main highways.
Traffic Problem
With all this he is in hearty agreement.
As, to the plan, he doesn’t think it is the
best plan that could have been devised,
but a better one would have had to be
more drastic and would have had less'
chance of acceptance. He’s sorry more
hasn’t been done to implement the plan,
particularly in the way of pushing ahead
with expressways; he sees Sydney’s
traffic-problem not as a matter of getting
people into the city more quickly—that’ll


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
2s
S>5T
&
and the Bank
The Banking needs of families are varied, but this
Bank, with its large network of branches and
agencies, provides modern facilities to satisfy all
needs. Its many services and friendly advice are
available to all members of your family.
The C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited is equipped to
handle savings accounts with the minimum delay at
all branches and agencies of the Bank in New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
Western Australia and
Australian Capital Territory.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited are guaranteed
by the parent company.
The Bank’s officers will be
glad to tell you how its services
can help you.
n
J
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
only bring more cars into the
overcrowded centre a'nd aggra-
vate the trouble —but of enabl-
ing more to by-pass the city or
stay away from it. The dis-
tributor-roads and expressways
are part of the answer to this,
but there is also the necessity
to provide alternative centres
of employment near the new
suburban living-areas. This
spreading or shifting of the
industrial zone is already in
progress; since 1948 factory
employment in the inner
suburbs has fallen by 13,000,
increasing in the outer areas.
Take Your Choice!
That Sydney will continue to
grow is indisputable ; the only
question, says the professor, is
whether this urbanisation of
the outer area “is to take the
form of a general smear of
bungalows, factories, shops,
garages, car-dumps and oil-
depots without rhyme, reason
or forethought, or whether a
more economical, convenient
and pleasant kind of develop-
ment can be achieved with
more clearly defined and
closely-knit living-areas with
wide areas of open space,
market-gardens and farms
between them.” He sees the
green belt as essential and
thinks that beyond it plans
should be prepared for the
orderly development of such
towns as Penrith, Campbell-
town, Blacktown and Windsor.
He believes the whole County
of Cumberland will become a
metropolitan Sydney, whether
we plan it or not. But
what a wasteful process it would be
to create a widespread ugliness and
congestion so that there were no
longer sufficient unspoiled beaches
and natural bushlands, fresh creeks
and clear air, to compensate for the
noise, smell, smoke and ugliness and
the slow and tiring journeys from
one place to another. There are
too many examples available to give
us any excuse -for believing that
everything will be all right if we
do nothing. The surroundings of
Manchester and Pittsburgh and the
suburbs of Birmingham and Chicago
give us a full preview of the County
of Cumberland in twenty years’ time
if we don’t succeed in controlling
development instead of letting
developments control us.
With that there will be mucft
agreement, but decentralisation
within the county of Cumber-
land is only a beginning. The
real way to curb Sydney’s
growth is to encourage the
growth of towns well outside
the county.


The Courting of Clara
By CLIVE MORTON.
WE didn’t like girls much,
Gilly and I. Never
since the time Gilly’s
Aunty Lil, returning
south, had kissed us good-bye
in front of a regiment of rail-
motor kids and ruined our
prestige for months.
And ,if it hadn’t been for the
cane-fire, Gilly would never
have begun courting Clara, the
cane-hauler’s daughter.
The fire began in the Mort-
gage Block where Alec the Balt
had been cutting before he
went away. Alec the Balt was
a blond, good-natured giant of
a man who regarded cane-
cutting as a fine jest flung into
his life. At first, Gilly’s father
regarded Alec with suspicion,
being filled with doubt at the
motives of a man who enjoyed
canecutting, but as the weeks
Went by, he concluded that
Alec was merely mentally
affected by war and therefore
quite normal.
A LEC drank. His enthusiasm
overflowed at weekends
robbed of outlet by a forty-
hour week, and he sought in
the town a circle of bar-room
acquaintances to share his
goodwill. When the sergeant-of-
police and two constables came
to a hotel to arrest Alec for
the first time to preserve pro-
priety, they approached him
with thoughtful caution.
They discovered that Alec in
drink was as gentle as a kitten,
and after that a single constable
sought out the giant at closing-
time and led’ him slowly up the
street to the police-station. If
the constable was delayed
through assisting the starting-
price bookmaker to count his
Saturday winnings, Alec would
be filled with concern at the
lapse and wander unsteadily up
to the police-station to arrest
himself.
Sometimes, late at night in
the cells, Alec would be seized
with a great desire to pay
immediate penance. At such
times the sergeant, who under-
stood these things, took torch
and axe and led him out of
the lockup to the woodheap in
the yard, to cut boiler-wood
until the sergeant fell asleep
or the torch-batteries ran flat.
The woodcutting carried
Alec away from us. One night
an airborne piece of wood
flung from his flying axe caught
the sergeant squarely on the
right temple and sent him
stunned and bleeding to the
ground. Alec took the sergeant
in his arms and ran into the
house.
After the ambulance had
repaired the sergeant and left,
Alec sat on the back steps
sobbing with remorse. The
sergeant’s wife waited until
two-o’clock before she sent for
the constables to take him back
to the cells. It was an un-
fortunate decision, and one
which the sergeant, granted
full faculties, would not have
agreed to. At the gate the
sobbing Alec turned his face
skywards and gave one long-
drawn, poignant cry of protest.
“I vant to stop mit the
sergeant,” he pleaded ; “I have
hurt him and he is my friend.”
The two constables tightened
their grip on his arms. Alec
drew back. The constables
insisted. Then Alec took them
one in each hand and bumped
their heads together for a little
while until they fell unconscious
to the grass. Then he went
back inside the house.
The sergeant knew that
Alec’s act was a beautiful
token, springing from a heart
free from all malice, but he
was forced by law to be
jealous of the welfare of his
constables. The memory of
Alec’s tolerance and kindness,
symbolised by the heap of cut
boiler-wood in the yard,
weighed too heavily on his
mind to suggest a jail-sentence.
Instead he came to Gilly’s
father with the only gentle-
manly alternative he could
conceive: Alec must go, to
another police area ; preferably
to one far removed from his
own. . .
/'MLLY’S brother Nick and
his father were planting
cane in the Bicycle Block when
the new canecutters arrived.
Over the years all the paddocks
of Gilly’s father had found
names, so that the whole history
of the farm lay locked in
paddock-titles.
The Mortgage Block had
been named a decade before
when Gilly’s father had gazed
on its cane withered by
drought, and seen in it a
strengthening of his bank-
overdraft ; the Bicycle Block
had remained through the years
as an indictment of Nick’s
tractor - driving carelessness
after he had mangled a cane-
cutter’s pushbike left there on a
headland by running across it
with the steel rear-wheels of
a 10/20 tractor.
Gilly’s father regarded the
new canecutters with interest.
“Who’s the ganger?” he
inquired.
The smaller of the two men,
a little Italian with piercing
black eyes and a cutthroat-
razor in his hip-pocket,
thumped himself on the chest
and leapt on to the cutter-
planter.
“Me bossa,” he yelled. “I
cutta your cane —alia da cane
dat you got; you havva no
troub. I cutta witha da knife ;
I lossa da knife, I bighta witha
da teeth. I breaka da teeth, I
dragga outa da ground witha
da bare hands. I stoppa here
cutta alia da cane ”
Gilly’s father spat accurately
in a cane-furrow and turned
to Nick.
“He’ll probably stick it out
for a day or two,” he decided.
“All right,” he went on.
“The kids can take you up to
the barracks and we’ll all burn
some cane for you tonight.”
“Aw, that’s no good,” the
other cutter declared. “We
want to start right away ; we’ll
lose half-a-day’s cutting if we
have to wait until tonight to
burn, like.”
Gilly’s father surveyed his
acne-ravaged face evenly. “And
I’ll lose half the farm with a
getaway-fire if you burn now,”
he declared.
He mopped perspiration from
his face.
‘‘Fancy wanting to bum in
this heat,” he snorted. “And,”
he added, pointing to flying
dust, fleeing across the cane-
drills before the force of a
fanning breeze, “in a wind like
this.”
“No good, boss,” the little
Italian squawked. ‘‘Musta
burn now. No buma now,
catcha da train for Innisfail go
cutta cane with my cousine.”
His friend joined chorus.
“That’s right,” he said ; “his
cousin’s got a tearer of a cut.
We can’t be held-up here.”
“But you’ll burn me out,”
Gilly’s father protested. They
argued for ten-minutes. At last
Gilly’s father narrowed his
eyes and surveyed the standing
cane and the direction of the
wind.
“The breeze has dropped a
bit,” he said. “I suppose we
could give it a go.”
"JV'ICK found doubt in the
decision. “You must be
bloody mad,” he said.
Stung, Gilly’s father strode
down the headland to the
Mortgage Block. “You can put
the firebreak in here,” he told
them, as he counted off sixteen
rows and tied two rows together
as a marker. “Make a good
break, now —none of these
flaming bandicoot-trails.”
He surveyed Gilly and me
distastefully.
“You blasted kids go up to
the house and get two cane-
knives for them,” he ordered.
Gilly nodded helpfully. His
father turned away and began
to walk up the headland.
Gilly sighed with relief. His
father turned.
“While you’re about it,” he
said, “you might as well give
them a hand with the break.”
Gilly’s sigh ended in a moan.
“I knew that was coming,” he
said.


TT was hot in the firebreak.
And itchy. Worse than the
lice of the fowlhouses. The
sharp edge of a caneleaf drew
a fine line of blood across
Gilly’s nose. He wiped it with
a shirtsleeve.
“I hate making breaks,” he
said. “It’s always so far to the
other end.”
He pushed a stool of cane,
bending it, behind him; the
little Italian raked the row clear
of dry caneleaves, crisped as
oven-dried brown paper, with
the hook of his caneknife;
ahead the Australian pushed
and protested his way through
a patch of sprawled cane.
“We’ll have' to get a price
on this,” he called.
Gilly’s father and Nick came
over just as the break was
completed. .
“They couldn’t get here
before and give a man a hand,”
Gilly complained as he saw
them approach.
“Well, we might as well get
started,” his father declared.
“Before the wind gets any
worse.”
He flicked a wax match into
the • dry thrash. The flame
flickered for a moment and ate
its way into leaves brittled by
sun. The fire widened and
crackled and wavered in the
draught of the break and a
green leaf hissed as it sent a
small spiral of its own smoke
upwards into the billowing
smoke of the larger fire.
A breeze flattened the tops
of the caneleaves on the
opposite side of the break,
surged downwards and sent
the growing fire over in air like
a wave breaking on a beach,
then back into itself again to
roar and crackle deeper into the
field.
Nick’s fingers tore at the
dried thrash of the cane-stools
until he had plucked an armful
of three-feet-long thrash He
doubled it over in his hands,
protected his face with his
slouch-hat, thrust the thrash
into the edge of the advancing
fire until it lit, and began to
lead the fire along the break
with the lighted thrash, flick-
ing flame from the bundle as
he went, so that all along the
edge of the cane he had passed
more fires began, small at first,
then larger as they found fuel,
until the whole # line of break
behind him was a continuous
line of surging, crackling
flame, leaping and dancing high
above our heads in the air.
The two canecutters took
canetops and knotted the ends
of the leaves into beaters, so
that they could follow far
behind Nick, away from the
heat and flame; beating at
small, spent fires on the ground;
keeping the fire from encroach-
ing behind on to the other side
of the break.
r T'HE roar of the fire died to
-*• a murmur as a sudden
calmness came to the break.
“The wind looks like
changing,” Nick yelled. “The
kids better go and get a knap-
sack-spray in case we need it.”
“It’s all right,” Gilly’s father
decided impatiently. “Keep
going and get it over.”
Nick shrugged and took the
fire further along.
“You kids keep an eye out
for flyers,” Gilly’s father
ordered with an edge of
concern in his voice. Gilly and
I stood swivel-necked,
eyes turned upwards,
following the passage
of lighted pieces of
caneleaves which floated
away from the burning
cane, swaying and
dipping in air across the
paddock.
The fire took new vigor as
the wind returned ; red waves
of flame swept up and over the
canetops, following each other
in roaring competition until
they reached the bare, ploughed
ground on the other side;
shooting out far across the
bareness beneath ; fanning out-
wards poised against the sun
for a dying second while the
flickering shadow of their
passing stretched like dark,
groping, anxious fingers on
the ground below.
Nick peered anxiously down
the break, the armpits of his
khaki shirt circled with the
dampness of perspiration, his
face white and drawn with
heat.
He came to a narrowing of
the break where the sprawled
cane had intruded across the
raked the cut ends
of errant stalks ; white bevelled
slices against yellow-brown
thrash.
“Watch it here,” he yelled,
and even as he spoke the wind
turned with a swish and a
scatter of burning pieces of
thrash.
“She’s over,” Nick yelled, as
the opposite side of the break
crackled with flame, and the
bent cane twisted and writhed
in a centre of fire.
“Why haven’t you bloody
kids got that knapsack-spray?”
Gilly’s father demanded. '
“You told us” Gilly
began.
“Don’t stand there arguing
the point,” his father roared,
“Go and get it.”
A LREADY Nick had leapt to
the new fire, pushing
blazing stools of cane inwards,
feeding it, restricting it, while
he kicked a break around it
with his feet. To one side the
flames leapt across the break
he had just completed, and A
new fire roared away.
The canecutters joined him.
“I give you credit for better
sense than let us burn on a
day like this,” the taller one
flung at Gilly’s father.
Gilly’s father jumped up and
down in the break for a
moment swearing, then turned
to us.
“Don’t stand there gaping,”
he yelled; “go and get that
blasted spray.”
We dived into the unbumt
cane, away from the heat of the
fire, and hurried to the head-
land. Behind us the roar of
the fire swelled in volume.
“Gawd,” Gilly said, “a man’s
going to have trouble putting
it out.”
Even at the house, flying
canethrash, still alight, was
falling on the roof and in the
yards. Gilly, filling the knap-
sack-spray, looked up and
pointed dramatically.
“Look,” he said, “Mum’s
washing is alight on the line.”
He shouldered the spray,
ran to the clothesline, and
began playing a jet of water on
the burning garments. His
father came to the headland.
“What are you doing with
"He's done his guts — he’s too scared to dive, for sure ... Go on, Gilly—show him how!”


that blasted spray?” he bel-
lowed.
“We’re just putting out a fire
in Mum’s bloomers,” Gilly
explained.
“To hell with your mother’s
bloomers!” his father ex-
ploded. “Bring the bloody
thing here.”
“I think,” Gilly decided,
“we’d better go.”
Back at the fire the men, red-
faced and panting, were push-
ing another break further along
the field.
“You kids go and get Paw-
paw and O’Shaunnesy,” Nick
ordered. “We’ll never hold it
by ourselves.”
VI7E took pushbikes and rode
** piston-legged and im-
portant down the headland,
across the bridge at the bottom
of the cutting, to Pawpaw’s
house.
Gilly took great care not to
let urgency rob the visit of
dignity. His father had shown
too often by example the rural
subtleties of favor-asking for
him to be unconscious of the
niceties involved.
“Good day, Pawpaw,” he
began urbanely.
Pawpaw grunted an acknow-
ledgment from where he sat
filling a doorway at the top of
the low veranda-steps.
“Think it’ll rain?” Gilly in-
quired with a glance of
appraisal at passing clouds.
Pawpaw considered the cumu-
lus and passed judgment. Gilly
nodded and moved his gaze
slowly around the yard and
along the headland.
“Those pawpaw-trees are
coming along good,” he
decided. ~
Pawpaw examined the trees
as though he had seen them
for the first time.
“Horsedung,” he declared.
There passed a moment of
silence.
“It’s hard to get now,” Paw-
paw discovered.
Gently and meticulously
Gilly steered the subject to
immediate need.
“That plant-cane looks good,
too,” he said.
“Probably won’t be too much
sugar in it,” Pawpaw said
defensively.
He paused, acknowledging
the presence of request.
Satisfied, Gilly began. “We’re
cutting in the Mortgage
Block,” he explained. “The
old man says the sugar’s not
too bad; though it goes off
if it’s burnt too long. Nick
says if you can spare a minute
would you come over" and help
with the fire.”
He surveyed his great toe
abstractedly.
“It just got away,” he
finished.
We had never seen Pawpaw
move so quickly. He leapt
right over Gilly’s head, gathered
his felt hat from the gate in
passing, withdrew a caneknife
from where it protruded from
the trunk of a sour-sop tree,
leapt to the footboard of his
truck, then paused for a
moment of advice to us.
“You raving bloody luna-
tics!” he chided. “Why didn’t
you say so in the first flaming
place? Get over to O’Shaun-
nesy’s like a bat out of hell and
tell him to come.”
We reached for our push-
bikes.
“Leave those damn’ things
here,” Pawpaw ordered. “Take
“.... the natives Were very primitive, they Wore gaudy
jewellery and painted their faces ..."
a short-cut through the bush.
Go on, run for it!”
We'Zulu’d our way through
the forest, knees high-stepping,
dodging over logs and around
trees. Gilly, forging ahead in
waist-high, blady - grass, dis-
appeared in a flurry of flying
feet. He thrashed in the grass
for a moment and bounded to
his feet like a flushed wallaby.
“What happened?” I gasped.
Gilly flung me a look of great
misery.
“I ran into a stump at a hell
of a height,” he moaned. “I
think a man’s ruined for life.”
We found the moon-faced
O’Shaunnesy disking ratoons
near his house with a tractor
the local agent’s father some-
times recalled selling new as a
youth. O’Shaunnesy walked
forty-feet away from the shud-
dering motor into earshot.
“Fire,” we gasped, recalling
Pawpaw’s advice. “The fire
got away. Pawpaw reckoned
you ought to come quick.”
O’Shaunnesy sighed and
squatted on the ground.
“What block’s she in?” he
inquired steadily.
Gilly explained. O’Shaun-
nesy broke a piece of burr-
stalk, carefully selected a patch
in the dust, cleared it with his
hand and began to draw a dia-
gram of the paddock on the
ground. He cocked his head
and examined the plan at some
length. Dissatisfied with the
standard of fidelity achieved he
rubbed it out and began
again.
“That’s better,” he decided.
“Now, let me see, that’s near
the Piano Block, isn’t it?”
Gilly nodded. “It’s a big
fire,” he hinted. “Maybe we
better get back.”
O’Shaunnesy belched and
surveyed him earnestly with his
wide, blue, innocent eyes.
“Panic,” he announced, and
paused.
“Panic,” he repeated, like a
provider of proverb, “is no
good.”
He examined the statement
for a moment, .testing its sub-
. stance and gazing steadfastly
at us, challenging us to dis-
agree.
“Panic,” he declared defi-
antly, “is no bloody good at
all.”
Satisfied that the information
now had weight of unchallenge-
able measure, he smiled.
“Com£ on into the house for
a moment,” he invited.
We followed him worriedly.
O’Shaunnesy looked in the
direction of the fire, as black
clouds of smoke poured over
the tops of the creek leich-
hardts.
“It’s picking up,” he said.
“I don’t know if we’ll have
time for a cup of tea after
all.”
He sat down on the steps,
removed his boots and drew
from each foot an odd and
holey sock.
“That's where everyone
makes the mistake with fires,”
he recalled. “Run around like
blue-tail flies, never plan for
a minute beforehand, and
when they get there they’re all
knocked-up and of use to
nobody. You’ve got to learn to
use your brain a bit; rushing’s
no good. You must take it
steady.
He drank lengthily and
loudly from a waterbag.
“You always want to camel-
up before you go for a fire,”
he advised. He went inside.
From the door we saw him
rummaging in a drawer, gravely
inspecting one sock after
another,
“All full of holes,” he com-
plained. “I nearly got married
once, so I could have someone
darn my socks.” He sighed. “I
hate going to a fire in a pair
of hqley socks,” he declared
plaintively. “I like to have my
feet comfortable when I’m fire-
fighting.”
It was a pity O’Shaunnesy
found no suitable socks. The
lack ruined his expected per-
formance. Without them, all
he was able to do was to stand
on the headland, supporting
his waterbag, graciously offer-
ing Nick, Pawpaw, Gilly’s
father and the cutters refresh-
ment each time they retreated,
red-eyed and reeling, to the
headland. Only as the fire
flickered, exhausted, after
burning out the whole pad-
dock, was he able to assist,
when he contrived, .with great
perseverance and dexterity, to
prevent a wandering spark
from igniting a rusted rubbish-
heap on the creek-bank.
Nick staggered to the head-
land, accepted a last drink,
(Continued on page 64)


Introduce • your - womenfolk ...
TO THE ATTRACTIVE SISTER-PUDLICATION OF
THE AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
*
V
s
HH
V
■
«
mt
m
€
mmm
m
>T
f \.
i
taw*
<
>%>«***
H
»
IS PROUD
OF HER
NEW
FULL-COLOR
MAKE-UP
AND HER
MANY FINE
QUALITIES
Take home a copy every “Bulletin” day
AT ALU NEWSAGENTS PRICE ONLY SEVENPENCE


Sic Itur Ad Astra
Fighter-pilot You've Had It!
THAT Air Force type
with the top button of
his jacket undone —he’s
to be buttoned-up and
filed-away in the archives. In
less than 50 years since he
was fledged in War I the brief
era of the fighter-pilot is
ending.
In the Battle of Britain, over
the Western Desert, in every
other theatre of action, he
took on all comers until he won
mastery of the air—now he’s
being shot-down by the push-
button scientists.
Whether he came from the
United Kingdom, Australia, or
any other part of the Common-
wealth, he conformed to that
distinct type, the British fighter-
pilot, than which no other
country can produce quite the
equal.
It was a type resembling in
many respects the sea-dogs of
the First Elizabeth. Like
Drake and his kind, the
salient characteristic was a
superb audacity.
It was such audacity which
carried them through the later
stages of the Battle of Britain
when ammunition was running
short. Where lesser breeds
might have thought themselves
ineffective and out of action,
the fighter-pilots flew just as
determinedly into battle, mak-
ing all the passes, going
through all the motions, and,
even with empty guns, beat-
ing off the enemy.
The colossal bluff was _rart
■of the make-up. Early in 194 X
after the second Benghazi-
Tobruk road-race, the Desert
Air Force was in a weakened
state, due to lack of replace-
ment-aircraft to .cover the
wastage of an intensive effort.
When there came the lull in
the ground-fighting, squadrons
of the Desert Air Force were
withdrawn for rearming with
the Kittyhawk, which had
recently arrived in the Middle
East. The squadrons remain-
ing in the line put on such a
show of activity that the Ger-
mans never knew until too
late how weak we were.
(QjNE afternoon the radar-
screen in the ops.-room
indicated an enemy formation
flying along the coast to bomb
Tobruk.
The wing-commander in
charge immediately ordered
his fighters into action. He
scrambled one squadron, then
two, three, four, and five. He
assembled them in the air and
vectored them towards the
enemy formation.
All orders were given over
R/T in plain language, as
time did not permit the use .of
code, although it was known
that the Germans listened-in
to our R/ l.
In such circumstances sur-
prise attack was impossible,
because the- Germans, calcu-
lating from the overheard
orders, could estimate where
the clash could be expected.
On this occasion the Ger-
man control aomrentlv
decided that five squadrons of
our fighters, some :>u to uu
aircraft, made too strong an
opposition for the bombing-
formation to reach the target.
Suddenly the enemy formation
turned out to sea, harmlessly
dj-qpned its bombs, Vrenr
back home.
The wing - commander
recalled our aircraft —both of
them!
There were only two
serviceable aircraft of the
Desert Air Force available for
action that day. Jabber over
R/T, two aircraft, and sheer
bluff beat-off an enemy attack.
THIS wing-commander was
himself a veteran of the
Battle of Britain, and was as
irrepressible as any of his
pilots. He was just as likely to
do things not according to the
book.
A German Air Force officer
who had been shot down over
our lines was by chance
captured by one of the fighter-
squadrons. Orders prescribed
that all prisoners were to be
sent immediately to the Intel-
ligence Section for interroga-
tion —but what were orders to
a fighter-pilot?
With the characteristic self-
assurance of the breed, the
wing-commander asserted that
By
W. J. DUNCAN
he knew better than any
Intelligence-wallah how to
interrogate an airman. He
had the German brought to his
caravan.
His method of interrogation
was in character fill the
prisoner with whisky and make
him talk.
The session ended when the
wing-commander fell from his
chair and passed-out; where-
upon the German, having
thoroughly enjoyed the party
and still comparatively sober,
sprang to attention, saluted
Sffiartly, snd marched off with
his guards.
Perhaps, with more con-
ventional methods, the Intelli-
gence Section got information
from him; the wing-com-
mander didn’t.
THE fighter-pilot knew that
he was better than anyone
else. There was no need for
him to be told so, because he
had already told himself.
And he knew better than
anyone else how the war
should be conducted. He had
no hesitation in telling the
Air Officer Commanding (or
even the Prime Minister) when
occasion offered.
An A.0.C., after giving his
opinions on the war-situation,
asked whether there was any
comment; whereupon a
junior commander sitting on
the floor promptly said it was
a lot of baloney. There was a
moment’s wary silence —then
the A.O.C. laughed and the dis-
cussion went on.
It was from incidents of this
nature that the Army com-
monly said there was no
discipline in the Air Force, but
it was an erroneous opinion.
There was a real, if some-
what flexible, discipline. The
devastating frankness of the
pilots was the outcome of
enthusiasm, high morale, and
lack of inhibition. A compe-
tent A.O.C. knew his pilots
and fostered the spirit. There
were, however, the A.O.C.’s
bad days, when even the
boldest pilot kept well clear.
WITH alljheir assurance,
few - com-
manders had any but the
sketchiest idea how to admini-
ster their own units on the
ground. The general manage-
ment of the squadron was left
to the adjutant, the equipment-
officer, and at times the
medical-officer.
But commanding the squad-
ron in the was the
squadron - commander’s
pigeon.
Just before the battle from
which Rommel chased us back
to the Alamein Line, one of
the best-known commanders
of a famous Australian squad-
ron had to bail-out, and
landed with a broken leg. He
was sent to a hospital in
Palestine, where his leg was
put in plaster, and >f
"Tissumed that he was under
control for some time at least.
But as the news of the
retreat came through, and with
it reports of the mighty
effort of the fighter-squadrons
in covering the Eighth Army,
Bobbie was sure that he, and
he alone, could lead his
squadron through the crisis.
So, stumping off on his
plastered leg, he went a.w.l.
from the hospital, hitch-hiked
to the squadron-base in the
Desert, there collected a
reinforcement aircraft and flew


to Desert Air Force head-
quarters.
Having proved that he could
fly with a broken leg, he
demanded of the A.O.C. that
he should now resume com-
mand of his squadron. To his
indignation the A.O.C. refused
to let him fly on operations,
“There was I ..."
He was, though, allowed to
run his squadron from the
ground.
This squadron was so
disgusted at having to retreat
that all —pilots and ground-
staff refused to shave until
the Desert Air Force was
again on the forward move.
During the next four months
the squadron added to its
many achievements the most
awesome collection of straggly
beards ever seen. It was said
that the squadron could be
easily identified in the air by
hairy streamers trailing from
the cock-pits.
IN contrast to the long
and steadily - mounting
tension of the bpmbing-flights,
the fighter-sortie" was of short
duration, and the pilot was at
high voltage throughout. The
return to base was a buzzing
scramble, with victory-rolls
over the airstrip after success-
ful sorties.
A pilot operating from
Tarakan dived too low while
ground-strafing Japs. Desper-
ately he tried to pull clear,
but the aircraft surged down,
to scrape the tree-tops. Hunks
were sliced off each wing. The
speed of the dive at the pull-
out was enough to take the
aircraft up again to about
1000 ft. There the pilot
levelled-out, and cautiously
tried the controls.
He found that with throttle
wide open the aircraft could
stagger along, holding height;
with less throttle it fell away,
So with engine roaring at full
throttle the pilot crawled back
over Tarakan. There, before
bailing-out, he called ops.-
room over the R/T with the
brief report: “Look! No
wings.”
©N many an occasion the
fighter-pilot saved himself
by quick, almost instinctive,
reaction.
Out' on patrol one day a
pilot relaxed vigilance for a
moment or two —not for long,
but it was long enough for an
enemy to get on his tail,
aligned ready to fire.
When the pilot awoke to his
danger it was too late to take
evasive action; he was a
sitting-shot.
In a flash, he put the flaps
down to full extent. His air-
craft shuddered like a shocked
spinster, clutched the air as
flying-speed dropped rapidly,
and found new equilibrium.
Meanwhile the enemy air-
craft overshot, tried to swing
back into position, went into
a spin, and crashed.
The fighter-pilot, on return
to base, reported the incident,
and had the nerve to claim one
enemy aircraft destroyed
“frightened to death.”
MIGH spirits and quick reac-
tions were just those
characteristics which inevitably
got pilots into every con-
ceivable form of trouble on
the ground.
An Australian on leave in
Alexandria wandered into a
night-club. There was a brawl
on the dance-floor which
seemed likely to develop into
a serious riot, with the possi-
bility of injury to some of the
hostesses.
The Australian reckoned
something should be done
about it, so pulled out a pistol
and fired some shots into the
ceiling.
His idea was good: the
staccato sound of shots put a
stop to the riot—but also
brought the Redcaps charging
in.
The Australian was arrested
and charged. To every ques-
tion put to him he calmly
replied: “Me no savee English
—me Tasmanian.”
T 7 N the Middle East, Aus-
tralians had the inherited
reputation of being trouble-
some, and the pilots, whatever
they may have been in the air,
were no angels on the ground.
Three of them on leave in
Cairo found that a bevy of
Waafs were quartered in a
houseboat on the Nile. The
boys paid a visit, uninvited,
and were refused admission.
They tried to storm the boat,
but were foiled by barricades
across the gangway.
Next they adopted naval
tactics. Stealing a rowing-boat
they moved quietly along the
water intending to board the
houseboat from the river.
Jfowever, the girls were
ready for that, too, and
repulsed the attack s o
energetically that one of the
boys fell in the river, swallow-
ing a quantity of muddy Nile
water.
Back in the mess, the drip-
ping ex-mariner told the story
against himself, but his
laughter changed to conster-
nation when the others told
him that the Nile harbored a
nasty wog known as Bilharzia,
continuing with gloomy fore-
bodings as to the likely effect
on his virility.
The doctor joined in with
the comment that the only
known antidote was Condy’s
crystals. To the delight or
everyone present, the would-be
naval boarder solemnly drank
a glass of Condy’s solution.
($5 UCH were the fighter-
pilots into everything,
whether trouble on the ground,
or battle in the air.
Their exploits were so many
as to become almost a
monotonous recital of derring-
do. Pilots flying top-cover to
protect others ; pilots landing
in the midst of a battle to pick
up a comrade who had been
forced down.
Off Sicily an Australian
pilot had bailed-out and fallen
into the sea. When the air-
sea rescue amphibian alighted
to pick him up an enemy gun
on the shore opened fire. The
Australian squadron - com-
mander who was flying cover
to the rescue immediately went
in on low-level attack, directly
at the gun—and silenced it.
No matter what the odds,
the fighter-pilots would take
them ; even single - handed,
such as the last famous exploit
of Johnny Jackson over
Moresby.
Not so well known as the
Battle of Britain was the work
of the Desert fighters in cover-
ing the retreat of the Eighth
Army to the Alamein Line.
The Desert Force was in
action from daylight to dark,
and the fighters, when not
themselves dive-bombing, pro-
vided cover for the day-
bombers operating the shuttle-
service to drop bombs on the
enemy columns. So effective
(Continued on page 47)


By CHARLES MEEKING
'T'HERE is always something
• of a tug at the heartstrings
when one leaves the place
where one has lived for years.
When I left Canberra the other
evening the place was in the
full glow of its autumn beauty,
and surely there are few places
•in the world with so much
natural beauty, or with lovelier
suburbs.
As the bus made its way to
the airport the sun was almost
level with the top of Gingera.
There was a smoky haze over
the mountains, and golden
clouds over Stromlo reflected
the mellow light. Some of the
•leaves on the trees along our
way were already turning gold
and crimson, although the dry
summer may rob the city this
year of some of its blazing
autumnal color. The War
Memorial grey stone walls and
copper dome were also golden
against the background of
gums up the slopes of Mt.
Ainslie. We had a last glimpse
of Parliament House vividly
white in the background, and
there were memories of many
scenes, dramatic, colorful,
comic, over the panorama of
the last 16 years.
Then we topped the rise at
the back of Duntroon. The
city was out of sight and out
of thought as we coasted down
the hill towards the airport,
past grazing cattle and sheep.
The low hills towards Quean-
beyan and Bungendore were
bright and dry in the westering
sun, with a blue haze over the
more distant ones. This is
surely one of the most beautiful
approaches to any airport in
Australia, set in typical Aus-
tralian landscape. Foreign
visitors coming to the national
capital—and most of them do
nowadays—can see during this
drive a kind of epitome of
much Australian scenery.
In autumn, of course,
Canberra becomes a little
exotic, because so many of
its millions of trees are
foreigners, and shed their
leaves. The towering poplars
in the courtyards of Parliament
House are now just turning
into a vivid mass of gold, and
the pinoaks along the near-by
avenues are becoming a vivid
and exciting red. Many of the
surrounding hills are parched
and bare this year, but the
lawns around Parliament House
and in the suburban gardens
have been watered well, and are
a vivid green.
It won’t be long, of course,
before all the leaves have
fallen, and the icy gusts from
the mountains sweep across
the rolling plain on which
Canberra seems to be spread-
ing in all directions. There
will be a snow-cap on Gingera
until October or November,
and this year there may even
be some falls in Canberra itself,
because it is several years since
there has been snow in the city
area. It will be on those bitter
days, with the smoke of great
log-fires pouring from all the
chimneys, that refugees to a
warmer climate may feel a
little less regretful at leaving
those parts.
As a city of vivid contrasts,
a city of much unreality, of
few industries and not too
much industry, of innumerable
and indistinguishable cocktail-
parties, of painstaking research,
of “log-rolling” and of the
mock engagements of political
strife, Canberra was able to
present one last thought-
provoking sight to departing
travellers on this glorious
autumn evening. In front of
the coach taking the crowd
of passengers to the Viscountbe
there appeared a large R.A.A.F.
trailer. On it was the blackened
tail and the smashed metal of
the Dakota which on the
previous night had ploughed
into the ground at Duntroon,
killing the four Air Force men
on board. It moved slowly
on in front of the coach for
some hundreds of yards, until
our coach rumbled through
the entrance into the civil air-
port, itself named after an
Air Minister whose plane
crashed into the near-by hills
17 years ago.
This was our farewell to
Canberra. The sun had just
set as we boarded our plane,
and there was a touch of
autumn sharpness in the air.
Perhaps it was a good time to
going away.
THE LAST TIME I SAW CANBERRA
THE CANNED MONSTER
By ERIC BEDFORD
HTELEVISION in Australia
has reintroduced the
Canned Monster to the Aus-
tralian writer, musician, artist,
cameraman, actor, and pro-
ducer for the third time.
Canned “Art” goods first swept
the local boards of most of
Australia’s actors when the
(blessedly) silent films cas-
caded from overseas studios ;
the second visitation was of
films with noise, which threw
pieture-theatre orchestras into
the ash-cans of dozens of Aus-
tralian towns ; and now tele-
vision comes as a third-assistant
to the Canned Monster from
overseas.
And what will television do
to assist the Australian artist?
Let us get our answer from the
history of the Canned Monster.
The real filmic art was the
silent one, as all great docu-
mentary films are great because
of their ability to convey intel-
lectual emotionalism, and not
their possession of the loudest
noise on the widest screen with
Nature’s colors accentuated by
optical glass and searchlight
beams. It was good and
natural that the sugar of Miss
Pickford, the warm propaganda
of Mr. Chaplin, and the
prancing Mr. Fairbanks should
come to the Australian screen
at a price which didn’t cripple
anyone. They were cans of
image, and the world had tired
of the stage asides of Mr.
Alfred Dampier and such.
Priscilla thumped the piano,
and Willie scraped his fiddle in
tempo suited to the action. All
was well as Tommy ate the
shells instead of the peanuts
during the silent excitement of
poor Pauline on the railway-
track.
. Nineteen-twenty-eight, and
“sound came in” to rant and
curse the orchestras, and the
Priscillas and Willies, out of
the Australian theatre.
Groups of out-of-work actors
and musicians stood at Poverty
Point and declaimed at length
upon the need to do something
as the Canned' Monster was
let out of his tin to roar over
the air-waves in fulsome soap-
operas, taking the shillings from
the pockets of Poverty Point,
and turning them into dimes
and nickels for the Canned
Monster machine in Holly-
wood. Something had to be
done!
Agitations followed, and the
N.S.W. Government, urged by
the cries of hungry Thespians
and others in the world-wide
depression, set about a Film
Quota Act. Australian film-
producers were to have the
certainty of a percentage of
Australian films on all screens.
Ah, joy! Then, ah, sorrow!
American film - distributors
were supposed, under the Act,
to “produce” their quota of
Australian pictures. But the
little word “acquire” got into
the film-quota regulations.
The Act didn’t say the distribu-
tors would have to “produce”
films for their quota, but
would have to “acquire” them.
And if there weren’t any films
produced—well, how could
they “acquire” them?
And now the third visita-
tion of the Canned Monster,
with a million, and not a
hundred, hands, has occurred
in Australia. Technical
achievement is easy compared
with artistic achievement, and
the Canned Monster is ever-
ieady to provide the non-think-
ing dope which will sell more
cigarettes and soap. The
nearer the programme can be
in asininity to the plugged
goods, the better the saies of
the goods.
But let us not talk so much
of art as the necessity of doing
something to provide our own
people with entertainment of
their own country. The com-
mercial TV-stations are out on
a long chase after profits, and
to suggest to them that they
should do something more than
televise sport and quizzes would
be useless.
The A.8.C., which, of
course, does not have to make
profits, is Australia’s sole
chance of making TV a worthy
educator of the mob. Without
the national stations we would
not have had a tremendous im-
provement in the musical
knowledge, and appreciation
of good drama, of ‘ radio
audiences. Australia must look
to the A.B.C. to push the
Monster back into his can as
often as possible. Luckily the
Australian climate will prevent
much of the TV-viewing for
hours a day which occurs in
the less sunlit climates of Eng-
land, and the American east-
coast winter.
But there is the danger of
the Canned Monster coming
out of his can for ever when
TV-relays are perfected and
can be sent from Hollywood
on the sound- and vision-
waves to the four corners of
the earth!


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
The Horses
The £2500 Champagne
Stakes (for two-year-olds) and
the £2500 All-Aged Stakes high-
light the third day of the
A.J.C.’s autumn carnival to-
morrow (Thursday).
There’ll be no Ajax in
tomorrow’s All-Aged Stakes
field, but the mile should be a
keen contest. Ajax, one of the
greatest milers to race in this
country, had 36 wins and nine
minor placings from 46 starts
—to aggregate £40,275 —and
three of his wins were in the
All-Aged Stakes (1938-39-40).
Harold Badger was the postilion
on each occasion.
A crowd of approximately
70,000 went to Randwick on
the opening day of the A.J.C.
autumn carnival, and not a
few were there to see Todman
—the unbeaten son of Star
Kingdom ; “the best two-year-
old ever.” On the strength of
Todman’s record, three horses
went to the post in the Sires’
Produce Stakes, the other two
Tulloch and Prince Darius;
both fine youngsters with win-
ning records —but not up to
Todman. The books weren’t
very interested in the race:
they offered “sixes-on” Tod-
man ; sevens bar one. And
they went on to bet on the
Doncaster.
• • . • . •'
Then they were away—Tod-
man, as expected, getting to
the front, with Sellwood, also
as expected, holding him up;
he would sprint away in the
straight. To the straight, and
the chestnut led from the
impudent bay, sooled alongside
by Moore now, and the chest-
nut Prince Darius tailed-off.
A furlong out and Tulloch still
there ; Sellwood reaching for
the persuader, applying same ;
but no response. The bay had
raced clear ; the champion was
beaten, pointlessly ; the crowd
gasped. Champions have their
off-days, yes; but two-and-a-
half lengths! Is six furlongs as
far as Stanley Wootton’s colt
likes to go? Time will tell.
The winner, anyway, is a good
one. For any other but Tod-
man it would have been no
disgrace.
• •: • •:
Now winner of about
£14,400, Tulloch has been a
model of consistency, with
seven firsts and five seconds
from 12 starts. Few horses do
as well at their first 12 outings.
Tulloch, who also won the
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce, is to
date the best stayer among
Australia’s two-year-olds ; yet
his family-lines include several
smart New Zealand sprinters
of earlier seasons. Trainer
T. J. Smith bought the colt in
New Zealand—at 750gns.—
for owner E. A. Haley ; and
Tulloch has proved a bargain
buy. The colt’s sire, Kborassan
(imp.), won races to a mile-
and-a-half in England.
• • • •
In recent seasons five winners
of the A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes Lindbergh, Ocean
Bound, True Course,
Temeraire, and Magnificent—
have also won the Champagne
Stakes. Tulloch could make it
six. Success in the six-furlongs
Champagne would bring him
within striking distance of
Mollison’s record winnings for
a two-year-01d—£17,343. He’s
already second on the list of
two-year-old winners. Trainer
•T. J. Smith expects to start
Tulloch in the £2OOO Q.T.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes if he
shapes up to expectations in the
Champagne Stakes. Success in
both Randwick and Brisbane
events would carry Tulloch
beyond Mollison’s record.
Todman wasn’t the only
champ, to have a pedestal fall
from under him over the week-
end. The same afternoon, at
Ellerslie (N.Z.), the Dominion’s
champion three-year-old filly
JPassive was just as easily and
just as surprisingly downed
in the Great Northern Oaks.
Alluring was the conqueror;
Shiralee was third. Passive was
regarded as a certainty for the
mile-and-a-half, and at the top
of the straight looked to have
it won; but Alluring out-
stayed her, and won with
something in reserve.
Alluring is by Khorassan
(imp.)—sire of Tulloch—from
Lady Bertha by Lo Zingaro
(imp.) from Podokes (imp.) by
Rock Flint. The breeding is
of interest, as the family-lines
include Upoko Ariki, Country
Party, Koda Pen, and Esper-
anto, all of which won races
on Sydney tracks. Upoko
Ariki and Country Party won
good class events, while Esper-
anto’s successes included the
A.J.C. December Stakes.
Fate employed shock-tactics
on the opening day of the
A.J.C. autumn carnival with a
dead-heat in the first race —
the Easter Handicap, for two-
year-old fillies. Though
burdened with 9.5, Concert
Star, the season’s best filly,
looked a winner until the 100-
to-1 shot Glamour Belle arrived
in time to align her nose. Few
in the crowd had heard of
Glamour Belle ; she was having
her second start, having been
down the course in Au
Courant’s race at Warwick
Farm a week earlier. But she
could quickly show her dead-
heat no fluke: jockey G. Pod-
more rode her with that type
of confidence on Saturday. The
filly is by Ruthless (imp.) from
Princess Pam, and was acquired
in New Zealand to be raced
by L. V. King and trained at
Canterbury by W. Sayers.
Princess Pam, a lightly raced
mare, is by Robin Goodfellow
(imp.) from Princess Pal by
Man’s Pal (imp.) from Princess
Pat by All Black (imp.).
Glamour Belle is' related to
Lady Pam, a winner of the
N.Z. St. Leger and the Great
Northern Oaks. Two winners
of the V.R.C. Oaks, East End
and North Star, appear in th®
pedigree.
• • • •
The lapse of Redcraze at
Warwick Farm —he. was easily
beaten into third place in the
Chipping Norton Stakes by
Mac’s Amber and Sailor’s
Guide—was quickly overlooked
by admirers who sent him to
the post an odds-on favorite
for the mile-and-a-half Rand-
wick Autumn Stakes. The big
chestnut strolled home five
lengths clear of his four
opponents in the smart time of
2.31 1-10. Redcraze should not
find it difficult to add the
w.-f.-a. mile-and-three-quarters
Queen Elizabeth Stakes (£5000)
to his winnings next Saturday.
Having now won £63,532 in
stakes, Redcraze looks in the
box-seat to topple Rising
Fast’s £66,765 —record stake-
money won in Australia and in
New Zealand. Present inten-
tions are to take Redcraze to
Brisbane after next Saturday
for a light early-winter spell,
then, perhaps, contest the Bris-
bane Cup, the Doomben Cup
and other races at the big Bris-
bane carnivals.
Sydney’s annual sale of
thoroughbred yearlings will be
continued at the Newmarket
stables this afternoon (Wednes-
day), to continue on Friday and
conclude on Monday, when the
final 178 youngsters will be
paraded. An interesting filly
to be offered early on Friday
is a half-sister, by Oleandrin
(imp.), to Melbourne’s Golden


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
SuLscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin/’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.s Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Doubles. Oleandrin is repre-
sented for the first time. His
grandsire, Oleander, won
£29,000 in stakes, and for
nine seasons was premier sire
in Germany. Relatives of
Hydrogen, -Hiraji, Rio Fe,
Electro, Seacraft, Waterford
and Prince Delville, are others
who should attract keen
attention.
• ••(•]
This year’s Futurity winner,
Parvo, completed an unusual
double when he won the £2500
Victoria Handicap at Fleming-
ton last Saturday. Those
sceptics who dismissed his
Futurity victory as a fluke now
have to admit the three-year-
old Sandastre gelding a pretty
good galloper. In the Futurity,
Parvo went to the front a long
way from home, and clung
doggedly to his lead all along
the straight. By contrast, he
came from the ruck in the
Victoria, and snatched the race
from The Corsican, just when
the Sydney gelding seemed
sure to win. Although he has
yet to win over a distance,
Parvo impressed as a likely
Caulfield Cup hope.
• • • •
Doug. Barclay had two falls
at Flemington last Saturday,
and was fortunate to escape
injury both times. His first
mishap was an unusual one.
His mount, Lady Pura, had
just passed the winning-post a
length to the good of Contra,
when a stirrup-leather broke
and Barclay was thrown in the
path of the other eleven
runners. Somehow they all
missed him, and he was able
to remount the filly and weigh-
in correctly. Lady Pura is held
on lease by Mr. W. J. Dugard,
collector of farriers’ fees at
Flemington, from former
jockey Ted McMenamin, now
a studmaster at Wodonga. Mr.
Dugard regards the filly as a
potential Oaks winner and
intends to exercise his right of
purchase.
• • • •
Melbourne racegoers have
such respect for Brian Smith’s
ability as a rider over the
sticks that almost every horse
he rides is sent out favorite.
Although Paid Up, his mount
at Flemington, had not raced
over the jumps since the spring,
backers made it a short-priced
favorite, and it justified their
support by winning easily.
Smith is certainly the best of
the present-day cross-country
riders, and ranks in this writer’s
opinion with the best he has
ever seen. He has a perfect
seat on a horse, and actually
assists his mount over the
jumps. Two or three years
ago, Smith retired to conduct
a suburban hotel, but soon
decided he was happier in the
racing game.
+ +
Brrrr! —’twere a bit nippy
early last Saturday morning
around Bondi, and posed the
question why the 1957 Aus-
tralian surf - championships
should be held so late in the
season; but the day proved
sunny and warm, in fact a few
degrees above average for
Sydney for April, and (though
it still looked chilly in) the
championships went off swim-
mingly and without a ripple.
Almost literally so the latter,
for the sea was very calm. All
States were represented at a
carnival which celebrated 50
years of surfing in Australia.
Inter-State swimmers won two
of the big races S.A.
Olympic swimmer Murray
Garretty, back again on what
was once his familiar surfing-
ground, won the senior surf-
race from Rugby League foot-
baller Barry Lumsdaine, while
D. Kitchener, of Queensland,
won the senior belt-race, with
Garretty second. On Sunday,
also at Bondi in a smooth sea,
N.S.W. won the inter-State
title, with Queensland runner-
up. N.S.W. won the march-
past. Garretty this time won
both surf- and belt-races.
* * *
In the third round of
Sydney’s Rugby Union
premiership last Saturday, Uni-
versity beat Gordon 14-8 —a
real turn-up for the books;
’Varsity had lost its first two
games, while* Gordon had
looked well-nigh invincible.
Sydney has been having a
goodly fare of Union (apart
from its other sporting attrac-
tions) over the holidays—a full
round of matches was also
played on Easter Monday. As
well, the previous Wednesday
night saw the two annual
games, North Harbor v. South
Harbor (both won, in the wet,
by South), while Country Week,
which began on Monday, is
proceeding apace. •
* * *
In the Saturday matches of
Sydney’s Rugby League comp,
the position began, as is
standard at this stage of the
season, to look complicated.
Easts inflicted on the “mighty”
Souths their third defeat in as
many matches to the tune of
19-14; and Easts, with three
wins in three starts, are
shaping nicely—a surprise
threat. Balmain put Parra-
matta away almost as easily as
Newtown had done the pre-
vious week, 33-9. Newtown
came with a wet sail after
lemons in their match with
Canterbury, to take it off
19-4.
• • • •’
In Saturday’s match-of-the-
day there was a breath of
semi-final football. Norths,
sporting two crack centres in
Allan and McCaffery, played
with a purpose. Wests, the
million-dollar team, kept with
them. Norths, however,
scraped a 7-5 lead, and, with
the bare half-hour to go, tried
to close it up—and almost
succeeded; only the boot of
Darcy Russell in a badly-angled
last-minute penalty-kick evened
it up, 7-apiece when the bell
went. In all, a good result;
and a good match that promised
a powerful brand of football
later in the season. '
* * *
Melbourne V.F.L. bounced-
away for the 1957 season, with
a split round over the Easter
weekend. All signs point to a
bumper season. Last year a
record number of people saw
the, 18 rounds of home-and-
home games, and new record
attendances were set at three of
the four final games (in par-
ticular, the grand-final record
115,802). There could be even
bigger crowds this season.
* * *
Woonona, whose young
team in recent years has been
full of promise rather than of
actual performance, now
appears to have reached the
performance-stage. On Satur-
day, at Lambert Park (Sydney)
in the third round of the
N.S.W. Soccer Association’s
State premiership, Woonona,
with a couple of cripples, held
off a strong second-half burst
by Leichhardt to win 3-2 ; with
the wind it had led 3-0 at half-
time. The. game, though poorly
attended, was exciting enough
and, on the whole, of a good
standard.
* * *
Darby Brown (10.8|) and the
West African colored boy
Attu Clottey (10.51) put on
gloves in Sydney Stadium to
determine a “logical” con-
tender for George Barnes’s
British Empire welter-crown,
and Attu got the pat on points.
For a man with a reputation
as a puncher, Darb. might just
as well have atchoo’d at Attu ;
his punches were rarely \yell
placed, and scarcely worth
placing—“like massages,” quoth
Attu. Attu, on the other hand,
doesn’t threaten dynamite in
both hands, yet he sat Darb. in
the second with a right that
came a long way, but that few
saw—least of all, Darb. For
the rest of the scrap Attu was
content to jab a long left —■
he’s got arms like the legs of
a giraffe—mix it a little
occasionally, and, for the rest,
rely on his better condition.
* * *
“Kejokada” : You couldn’t
really have lost your dough if
you’d bet on Keith Macpher-
son to win the final game of
the Amstel v. Woodlands
pennant-golf match ’at Yarra
Yarra recently. For it was
between Keith Macpherson of
Woodlands, recognised as one
of Victoria’s best amateur


golfers, and unrelated Keith
Macpherson of Amstel. In an
“upset” the Amstel Mac
defeated his namesake at the
20th.
* * *
“Ailsey”: Squash-rackets is
enjoying an amazingly popular
vogue in Sydney. In two years
the number of courts has
increased from 14 to 75, and
more are being rushed up. An
N.S.W. Squash Rackets Asso-
ciation has been formed, with
Vin. Napier as president; and
more than 10,000 players are
eligible to register. Rugby
Union players, who are particu-
larly keen fans, now have a
court at Union headquarters,
Crane-place, Sydney,
* * *
“One-of-’Em”: The Gympie-
Widgee (Q.) Bowls Association
held its second annual meet at
Kandanga (Mary Valley), 18
miles from Gympie, recently.
Thirty-one veterans were
present, and 30 played;
their aggregate age, 2319
years. The oldest player,
Hughie Wallace, came out of
Scotland 60 or 70 years ago.
He’s 87. In Queensland all
bowlers attaining the age of
70 are presented with a badge
with the likeness of a kooka-
burra on it an appropriate
motto, perhaps, for a veteran,
“Judee”: Given up manager-
ship of Victoria Park (Sydney)
Bowling Club—but not the
sport—Bob Skillen has been a
player for 53 years ; he was in
Glengarsk Works Club, Scot-
land, in 1904 and joined Vic-
toria Park in 1916. Bobby,
five times singles champion of
V.P., w'on the N.S.W. pairs-
title with Dick Harrison. He
has tutored more than one up-
and-coming State champion.
DUNLEAVY'S GYM
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
( Continued )
T EAFING through Jack
Dunleavy’s fight - filled
scrapbooks in Jack’s room at
the Catholic Club in Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, we talked
generally ... of boxers . . .
training. Jack believed in
•road-work. He used to
take Jack • Haines, Tommy
Fairhall, Billy McAllister and
Johnny Bourke to Centennial
Park; also Willie Smith, the
South African fighter.
But boxers could be hard to
handle. Take a young country
fellow, a decent lad, who
develops into a good boxer.
Overnight he is made much
of, he starts to break training,
loses his balance. Drink;
women. Surprising how
women —quite nice girls—ran
after boxers. Unsettling for
the boys.
Teaching . . . “It’s a hazard-
ous game, boxing, and you
need every trick on your side.
Man wasn’t meant to be hit
about the head, where he’ll get
hurt, the eyes, chin, ears. It’s
a tragedy to see them when
they’ve been knocked about.
They’re only boys and they’ve
got to go through life with
damaged senses.”
Still, life was a fight, he said
in effect. Boxing was only a
dramatisation of it. But . . .
“That’s why I’ll never let my
boys go in before they’re ready.
Or I’ll tell them to give it up.
More and more, as I’ve grown
older, I’ve felt like that. May-
be when I was younger,
through not knowing, I did let
boys go in when they weren’t
ready. But not now. Not for
a long time.
“The old fellows —those old
fighters . . . some of them
fought a lot of fights, a lot of
rounds. But you didn’t see the
battered pugs you see today.”
A sombre thought, but lead-
ing to the Australians of an
older generation who had
established a boxing tradition.
When he was in America, Jack
said, he met Australians every-
where. Most of them had good
jobs teaching boxing in
athletic clubs. Not Griffo, of
course —although he met him,
too —but George Dawson,
Shadow Billy Maber, Tim
Tracey.
Training you had to be
sensible about it. You couldn’t
lead the gay life. On the other
hand, lots of fellows work too
hard. They burn themselves
out in the gym.
“The big thing in boxing is
the way you hold your hands.
Hold them low, relaxed.” He
demonstrated, sitting on the
bed. “Like Johnson. The
next thing is to do what Foley
did—watch the eyes. You
can’t control Nature, and so no
man can control his eyes.”
He began the slow, rhythmic
exercise, the left hand spearing
out, the right turning in the
parry. A little faster. “No!
Watch my eyes.” Then, flare
of light dilating the pupils as
the quick one came. A perfect
demonstration.
1 He smiled. Lit a cigarette. “A
lot of good boxers can’t teach.
I’d almost rather teach than
eat. In fact, that’s what’s been
wrong with me. Boys coming
in the lunch-hour —I’d grab a
couple of sandwiches. Others
coming . at night—l’d stay
behind, didn’t get my proper
meals.”
Later he said he had heard
that Eddie Miller, the former
featherweight champion, was
teaching. Eddie would make a
good teacher. He used to put
Eddie in with pupils, and Eddie
would take them along gently,
with all the patience in the
world. You couldn’t do that
with many boxers ; particularly
a boxer in the pink of condi-
tion, jumping out of his skin.
Jack Dunleavy is one of the
great teachers. If there is no
such direct link between him
and Foley as there is between
Foley and Mace it’s of little
importance. I’m inclined to
think that 20, 50, 100 years
hence, students of the history
of boxing will be digging up
his records, studying his
methods, and that these will be
endorsed by time.
The common criticism of the
Dunleavy style of boxer is that
they box beautifully, have a
good left hand, don’t like being
hit, and use the right hand
mainly for defence.
Looked at closely, this boils
down to no criticism. The first
two points we can pass. To
consider the third: no one,
unless he is suffering from a
rare psychological condition,
likes being hit. If he is skilful
enough he avoids it; if he isn’t
he endures.
Dunleavy has drilled it into
his pupils that it isn’t smart
to be hit. He has never been
knocked-out himself, and does
his best to teach his boys not
to be hurt.
He’s conscious, as any
thoughtful trainer must be, of
the darker side of boxing. But
an awareness of this, like an
awareness of the tragic aspect
of life, doesn’t lessen his
appreciation of the color and
drama. Granted glove-fighting
is a blood-sport, a scientific
system of defence and attack
seems sensible fqr the
individual and an acceptable
compromise for the sport.
The fourth point, in my
opinion, is debatable. The
same criticism is made of the
older Jem Mace school. “The
right hand used only once, and
then as a finisher.” There
seems nothing wrong with that,
even from the point of view of
the rough-and-tough school, if
the punch does finish the fight.
Not every man has the
power, the co-ordination, the
instinct —whatever it is—to
deliver a knockout punch. But,
in any case, it’s highly probable
that there would be fewer
knockouts in professional box-
ing if more of the boys in the
ring understood the funda-
mentals of their trade. Not
only in defence proper, but in
attack. An obsession with
being a mighty right-hand
puncher can tire a man out,
uselessly, and leave him open,
when tired, for the blow that
will hurt him.
For all that, it is probably
true that a number of men
taught on these lines are not
heavy punchers. This, I think
(apart from natural ability),
depends on the application of
the fundamentals. There is no
reason why the same principles
of swift attack and defence,
carried a step forward, cannot
be applied to heavy punching.
In fact, it has been, as a study
of the methods of some out-
standing boxers shows. But,
where this has been done, there
is usually an .alternation of
pace and distance in the foot-
work.
Be that as it may, the con-
tribution made by Dunleavy’*
gymnasium to large sections of
society, through the amateur
ranks, remains. I am not speak-
ing now of the outstanding
amateurs whose names are well
known, but of the far greater
numbers of youngsters who
have gone there to learn, some-
thing about boxing and, in
doing so, have picked up
valuable lessons in self-confi-
dence, sportsmanship, and self-
control.
[The End]


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Air-Vice-Marshal Hely and Mrs. Hely,
who leave soon for Washington, were
guests-of-honor at a buffet dinner-party
given by Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. E. A.
Daley at their Armadale home. Autumn
foliage and autumn-tinted hydrangeas
decorated the- reception-rooms. The
hostess wore a black silk frock, the guest-
of-honor a red-and-black jacquard faille
dress. Included in the 20 guests, all
R.A.A.F. friends of long standing, were
the Chief of Air Staff, Air-Vice-Marshal
F. Scherger, and Mrs. Scherger.
☆ ☆ ☆
There were 60 guests at the late-after-
noon party given by the High Com-
missioner of Pakistan, General
Mohammed Yousuf, at the Oriental
Hotel. Among them were the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr. Sir Frank
and Lady Selleck), Mr. and Mrs. John
Grimwade, Mrs. Poz Latham, Sir John
and Lady Jungwirth, Sir George and Lady
Knox, French Ambassador M. Rene
Sivan, French Consul M. Le Bas de
Plumetot and his wife, Mr. and Mrs. lan
Miller (her black velvet hat trimmed with
a white ostrich-feather), Mr. and Mrs.
Ross Grey Smith (she in black frock and
lynx-fur cape), Mr. and Mrs. Bob Gove,
Sir Samuel and Lady Burston, Dr. and
Mrs. Darling.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fourteen new members of the women’s
group of the Australian-American Asso-
ciation were welcomed by president Mrs.
Casey at the monthly meeting and
afternoon-tea at Ciro’s. Also present
were two overseas visitors: Marjorie
Purser of New York, who is accompany-
ing her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Mark W.
Purser, on a holiday trip to Australia ;
and Mrs. N. Werjing, from Oslo, Nor-
way—they weje the guests of Mrs. E.
Alstergren. During the afternoon Dr. F.
Jacka, senior physicist in the Antarctic
division of the Department of External
Affairs, gave a short talk.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mr. and Mrs. Oswald Bowden were
host and hostess at a family dinner-party
to say au revoir to their daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Bruce Bowden (formerly Robin
Learmonth), who will leave shortly for
New Guinea to join her husband at
Wagamil, in the Waghi Valley, Banz, on
a coffee plantation. Bruce went to New
Guinea in January and is supervising
the building of their house. For the time
being, Bruce and Robin will stay with
Mr. and Mrs. Noel Rutledge, who live on
a near-by plantation. Among the guests
were Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Bowden,
Mr. and Mrs. Val Morgan, Mrs. Bruce
Bowden’s aunt (Mrs. E. M. Butler) and
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Derham.
At her Toorak home Mrs. Leo Curtis,
who was president of the committee
which organised the Moomba Ball at St.
Kilda Palais, handed a cheque for £lO3O,
proceeds of the ball, to Mrs. Oswald
Bowden, senior vice-president of the
hospital, who received it on behalf of the
president, Miss Kathleen Syme.
☆ ☆ ☆
Miniature palm-trees will decorate
tables at St. Kilda Palais de Danse when
the women’s group of the Australian-
American Association hold their Coral
Sea Ball on May 10, Among those
making the trees, which have bamboo-
trunks and green transparent-paper leaves,
are Mrs. T. R. Spensley, Mrs. Gordon
Darling and Mrs. C. G. Harris, wife of
Colonel Harris, Assistant U.S. Air Force
Attache. There are seven Australians
and seven Americans on the committee
organising the ball, which is held annually
during Coral Sea Week. Ticket-secretaries
are Mrs. J. R. Ahearn (BJ 5358) and the
wife of the U.S. Consul, Mrs. William
Bushwaller (BM 1458).
Angela, second daughter of Mr. F.
Wawn of Woodend and Mrs. Keith
Allen of Toorak, has announced her
engagement to Stanley, younger son of
Mr. R. Grant of Launceston ( Tas .) and
the late Mrs. Grant. Angela is doing
second-year Arts at the University.
With a young president, Jane Hennessy,
at their head, the young people who call
themselves the Wool Ball Committee are
doing a wonderful job of raising funds
for the Ramsay Mailer Opportunity
Clubs for Boys and Girls. Their latest
money-raising effort was a White-and-
gold Dinner-dance at Ciro’s. Huge bowls
of leaves, reeds and rushes, painted in
white and gold made a spectacular
decoration. The president, wearing a
petal-pink satin frock pleated diagonally
from shoulder to hemline, received the
guests. In her party was Sandra Glover,
whose white lace frock had a pleated satin
sash defining the Empire-bodice. Lovely
white lace frocks were also worn by twin
sisters Elizabeth and Patricia Mildred.
Elizabeth Trumble’s full-skirted, short
white tulle frock was highlighted with a
huge cluster of white roses on the strap-
less bodice. Wendy Pisterman’s frock
was of pale-blue Chantilly-lace, Gail
Challinhsworth’s of pale-pink satin.
Patrizia Serafini (daughter of the Italian
Consul-General and the Marchesa
Serafini) wore a lovely frock of white
lace, ruffled from the strapless top to
hemline, and mounted on pink satin.
Robin Paterson’s pink chiffons featured
a lampshade-skirt. With her short frock
of powder-blue chiffon Louise Palmer
wore an Ophelia-wreath of pastel flowers.
* ☆ *
St. Catherine “old girl” Elizabeth Ann,
only daughter of Mrs. R. P. McMeekin,
of Toorak, and the late Dr. McMeekin,
has announced her engagement to lohn
Richard Serpell, of Malvern. Elizabeth,
as well as being social-secretary of the
Victoria League’s Young Contingent, is
also interested in the Little Theatre. Her
fiance is the second son of Mr. and Mrs.
F. S. Serpell, formerly of Kyneton.
☆ ☆ *
Before going on to the Aero Club Ball
at St. Kilda Palais de Danse, members of
the official party, including Air-Marshal
F. R. W. Scherger, Chief of Air Staff,
and Mrs. Scherger, were entertained at a
dinner at the Army and Navy Club. Host
and hostess were Air-Commodore and
Mrs. P. G. Heffernan (he is manager of
the Royal Victorian Aero Club). Mrs.
Heffernan chose a strapless gown in
palest-pink brocade, Mrs. Scherger bur-
gundy shot-taffeta cut on slim, graceful
lines. Also in the party were Air-Marshal
Sir George Jones and Lady Jones (her
gown of black chiffon), Director-General
of Civil Aviation D. G. Anderson and
Mrs. Anderson, Brigadier Guy Moore and
Mrs. Moore, and president of Melbourne
Legacy L. W. Fargher and Mrs. Fargher.
Proceeds of the ball were for Legacy.
☆ * ☆
Barbara Toy, Australian author, who
has made such a success abroad, has
returned to her homeland for a visit and
is travelling by car across Australia, via
Adelaide and Melbourne, her final
destination Sydney. She has driven single-
handed by Land-Rover from Tangier to
Baghdad (see her book, A Fool on
Wheels), has explored Libya similarly
and crossed the Sahara Desert ( A Fool in
the Desert), has travelled and lived in
Saudi Arabia as a guest of Ibn Saud
(A Fool Strikes Oil). What will she call
her Nullarbor Plain experiences? Stage-
director, producer and script-writer for
films, Miss Toy is one of Australia’s
most versatile exports. She should have
an interesting story to tell.


SYDNEY
Sydney people are still rubbing their
eyes and wondering whether the glorious
weather over the four-day Easter holiday
was a dream or not. A day of gentle
rain on Thursday freshened the air and
greened the grass, and from then on the
weather was perfection. Everyone was
happy and a few garden-plants, thinking
it was spring, put forth blossoms.
A few Melbourne visitors apparently
had the same idea, for at the St. Leger
Day at Randwick they also sported florals.
Sally Manifold, Eve Grimwade and Sarah
Gilder were among the “spring” con-
tingent, and were probably more com-
fortable than the jersey- and tweed-
wrapped Sydneyites.
Still, it was great fun to see the autumn-
hats and a revelation that so many odd
shapes could be worn with such effect.
The prize for size (in hats) went to Mrs.
Bob Mclnerney (whose chapeau was a
great snowball of curly ostrich-feathers),
with Mrs. Fergus George as runner-up —-
her hat was a six-by-four taupe melusine
stove-pipe threaded with grosgrain ribbon.
Mrs. A. L. Walters (who has her
daughter, Mrs. Carl Helden, visiting her
from Sweden at present) wore a debonair
top-hat of beige melusine. Mrs. Michael
Fitzpatrick, who was with Miss Joan
Parkman of Young, linked the sapphire-
blue of her high toque to her sapphire-
and-diamond brooch. Mrs. J. F. Martin,
whose hat was also a toque, banded its
wild-rice felt with a speckled feather-
trimming.
Feathers were the most popular feature
of the hats, mostly close-set and forming
patterns with their markings. One very
beautiful feather-hat, white with pigeon-
eye markings and banded in fuchsia velvet
—a hat that one would really expect to be
exclusive —was repeated four times. There
were several little curvettes worn, cock-
tail-types, but they looked rather
insignificant. The most elegant of the
small hats were the close-wrapped
in jersey.
Mrs. Tom Bateman, who attended the
meeting with Miss Mary Brennan (Coona-
barabran), spoke of the interesting art-
show which she is arranging for the St.
Vincent’s Hospital Appeal. Called
“Famous Paintings from Australian
Homes,” and scheduled to be opened by
Lady Carrington at David Jones’ Art
Gallery on May 14, it aims to show
the best that our homes can provide
from all periods and schools. The Alexis
Alberts have lent their Russell Drysdale
“Joe” and Mrs. Dundas Allen a George
Lawrence. An original Turner will be
shown, and a 14th-century Madonna is
among the treasures that one will have an
opportunity to see. It seems to be an
exhibition not to be missed.
☆ ☆ ☆
Masses of heather cut from the
Grampian Hills of Scotland will be used
in the decorations of the official-table
and in the bouquets carried by the
debutantes at the Scots College Ball at
the Trocadero on May 2. It is being sent
by 89-year-old Mrs. Robertson, of Aber-
deen, to Mr. and Mrs. R. R. Hutcheon
of Rose Bay, whose three sons are all
Old Boys of Scots. Six debutantes will be
presented at the ball and will dance their
waltz to the music of the pipes, provided
by the college pipe-band, which will
also play in the foyer. It is expected that
Old Boys from many parts of Australia
will gather for this gay reunion ball.
Rosalind Boxall is the wife of famous
actor Paid Rogers, who is to play Hamlet
in the Elizabethan Theatre’s production
to open on April 27. Rosalind, herself a
gifted actress, will play Queen Gertrude,
and, in “The Relapse,” which is to follow
“Hamlet,” she will play Berinthia. She
and her husband, with baby daughter
Lucy ( one-year-old ), arrived necently in
Sydney after completing an Old Vic tour
of North America. Photo by David Sim
(London).
The Aberdeen-Angus Society of Aus-
tralia held its annual dinner at the Rain-
bow Room of the Australia during the
week. Mustered about 300 strong, they
were welcomed by president R. C. N.
Clarke (Seville, Vic.) and included the
Gordon Munros of Bingara (N.S.W.), the
John Wilsons of Camperdown (Vic.), the
H. J. Crothers of Dirranbandi (Q.) and
the Don Taylors of Nairne (S.A.).
The Osborne Cup, topped by its sturdy
little Aberdeen-Angus figure, stood on
the piano at the party. It had been won
this year by R. H. Tout (Wambanumba,
Young), who was the most successful
exhibitor. Mrs. Tout was present, look-,
ing very attractive in black taffeta, also
youthful daughter Elizabeth, who parades-
the cattle for the family both for judging
and for the Grand Parade. Pretty and
petite, Elizabeth has paraded the cattle
at shows for four years now, and since
leaving Meriden in ’54 has worked on the
family-property driving trucks, working
cattle, mustering sheep, “Everything that
has to be done.” It is not surprising that
Elizabeth loves the land so much, for her
family has been settled in the district for
nearly 100 years.
☆ ☆ ☆
“Is Man the Pursuer or the Pursued?”
was the ■ topic for discussion at the At
Home of The Royal Society’s Women’s
Auxiliary on Wednesday. Dr. J.
McGeorge thought man was the pursuer
(in ancient times he used a club. Today
he uses a night-club). Mr. Eric Baume
was vehement that the opposite was the
case. Chairman David Condon remained
safely neutral. Mrs. Condon and Mrs.
David Lindsay took up the debate when
the men had finished talking, and were
much more idealistic in their approach.
At the afternoon-tea which followed, Lady
Berryman and Mrs. Ivan Black enter-
tained the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. H. F.
Jensen, as guest-of-honor, and everyone
continued the discussion. The final verdict
seemed to be: “Well, 1 don't know about
others, but I’m sure that / was the one
pursued.”
☆ ☆ ☆
A lingerie-parade (which included
among its novelties a nightshirt and a
nightcap) brought supporters of the
Sydney Auxiliary of the Flying Doctor
Service to George’s, Double Bay, in spite
of strong counter-attractions such as the
opening of the Show. Mrs. J. Macdonald
Holmes was organiser, June Salter com-
pere, Emile. Mercier guest-of-honor, and
among the onlookers, Mrs. Eric
Broughton, Mrs. J. Schwilt and Mrs. H. S.
Tredman.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Governor-General and Lady Slim
will be present at the annual service
of the members of the Order of St.
Michael and St. George at St. James’
Church on„the morning of April 28, which
is the celebration of the annual festival of
St. George’s Day. The St. George Regi-
ment will produce the usual guard-of-
honor.
☆ ☆ ☆
By the way, Mr. Fred Daniells,
secretary of the Royal Empire Society,
goes on a name-changing mission on
Friday. First name to be changed will
be that of Lesley Campbell, whom he will
marry at St. Stephen’s Church on Friday
morning. The second name to be
changed is that of the society he
represents and will be discussed when they
arrive in London, for which they depart
by air on Friday evening. Suggested
alteration in this case is “The Royal
Commonwealth Institute.”
☆ ☆ ☆
Always a spectacular attraction at the
Show, the schoolgirls’ dancing-display
was this year well up to standard. Miss
Jeart Harte again came up with a fresh
idea, and in “Carousel” directed over
1400 girls in dances of many types and
tempi, with the maypole and the merry-
go-round the central theme.
The highlight of the performance came
when the girls danced a fast Irish jig
in darkness, each girl holding a colored
lighted torch. It seemed as though the
lights were dancing the jig, and the effect
was most dramatic. Another impressive
touch was the lighting of some 20,000
matches, cigarette-lighters and so on by
the spectators at a given moment in
tribute to the girls at the end of the
dance. For a moment the whole circle of
the arena glittered in the darkness and
then died.


t« *U-«#IT»Si
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
i
r
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
ctaviv timiT • it. iff. i • « • • t
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO FRANK ALDERSON BENTLEY late
ot Amclitfe— TAKE NOTICE that
VIOLET ROSE BENTLEY has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 793 of 19.57 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend , you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the first day of July 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from GEOFFItEY SEE
GILLIS & COMPANY, Solicitors, 18-20
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— I® Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ATHOL SYDNEY DAVIS late of
No. 27 Queen Street Woollahra Railway
Employee.—TAKE NOTICE that
DOROTHEA DAVIS has filed ji Petition
for Divorce No. 3b61 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
IF you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street, 'Syd-
ney by 21st day of June 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. MAUNDER METCALFE
& JEFFREY, Solicitors, of No. 143
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO RONALD PHILLIPS formerly of
Bayswater W.A.—TAKE NOTICE that
your wife DOROTHY BEATRICE
PHILLIPS has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for Divorce on the
ground of habitual failure by you for
three years immediately before the com-
mencement of the action to comply with
the terms of a Maintenance Order under
which you and she have been separated
for that period IF you desire to defend
such proceedings you must file your
defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth within FORTY
clear days from the datfe of this publica-
tion In default of your so doing the
cause may proceed and the Court will
pronounce judgment and make orders
against you in your absence. —DATED
this 15th dav of April, 1957. —
G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
FRED CURRAN & FERRIER, of
Forrest Place, Perth, Western Australia,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of the verse about the
typist that begins something like
this:
I work to the tune ot a click and a
rattle, o
Like the clicket of swords in an old-
time battle....
—6499.
Words of verses called “Black
Barney” and “How the Tattersali’s
Cup Was W0n.”—6500.
To contact any members of the
family of the late Sir Justice
Cohen. —6501.
To sell copies of the following:
Ferguson’s Bibliography of Australia
(vols. 1-4); The Prose Works pf
Henry Lawson (2 vols.); Selected
Poems of Henry Lawson (illus.);
The Story of Australian Art (2 vols.),
by William Moore; Grimwade’s
Anthography of the Eucalypt;
Waterhouse and Lyell’s Butterflies
of Australia; Waterhouse’s What
Butterfly Is That?- —6502.
Information Sought
Has any programme been decided
on for coming international Rugby
Union tours ?
Yes, a programme was adopted at
the International Rugby Union con-
ference in London in March. This
year (1957-58) Australia tours the
British Isles and France; in 1959
British Isles tours Australia and
N.Z.; 1960, N.Z. to South Africa
1960-61, South Africa -to British
Isles; 1962, British Isles to S.A.;
1963, Australia to S.A.; 1963-64,
N.Z. to British Isles; 1965, British
Isles to Australia and N.Z.; 1966,
S.A. to Australia and N.Z.; 1966-67,
Australia to British Isles; 1967,
N.Z. to S.A.; 1968, British Isles
to 'S.A.; 1969, Australia to S.A.;
1969-70, S.A. to British Isles. Tours
between Australia and N.Z. are to
be arranged by mutual consent;
the All Blacks are to tour Australia
this year.
* * * *
(1) Some information on the old
punishment of hanging, drawing and
quartering in England ? (2) List of
other countries which have practised
if ?
(1) According to Charles Duff’s
gruesomely satiric A New Hand-
book on Hanging (1954), “the
delectable threefold ceremony of
hanging, drawing and quartering
was invented by the English... .and.
was first practised in the Year of
Grace 1241. It was generally
reserved for those found guilty of
high treason, although, by way of
diversion, it was used in other
cases.” Quoting Bygone Punish-
ments, by W. Andrews, Duff gives
the form of sentence pronounced by
judges as: “That the traitor be
dragged along the surface of the
ground, tied to the tail of a horse
ana drawn to the gallows and there
hanged by the neck until he be
half-dead and then cut down; and
his entrails be cut out of his body
and burnt by the executioner; then
his head is to be cut off, his body
to be divided into quarters, and
afterwards his head and quarters to
be set up in some open places
directed.” Duff states that only in
1950 was drawing and quartering
legally abolished in Scotland,
though, of course, it hadn’t been
practised there for many, many
years. Accoiding to Duff, the last
instance of hanging and drawing
took place at Derby in 1817, in
a case of high treason, when the
quartering of the three accused was
remitted to beheading. It was a
public execution, and Shelley is said
to have bjen- an eyewitness. (2)
Information not readily available.
* * * *
Some particulars on J. T. S.
Scrymgeour, subject of “A Great
Breeder Retires” (Man on the Land,
B. 3[41’57) ?
This question was referred to “R.,”
who wrote the original article. He
replies:
James Tindal Steward Scrymgeour
(pronounced Scrim-jer) was born at
Oamaru (N.Z.) in 1880. His father,
William Scrymgeour, had emigrated
from Scotland to New Zealand in
1862 and had bought Teviot Station
rn Central Otago. Teviot carried
40,000 sheep.
Before migrating to Australia,
J T. Scrymgeour moved with his
father to the North Island, where
the family ran sheep and beef-
cattle at Tuki Tuki, in the
Hawke’s Bay district. Jim
Scrymgeour also worked for
Dalgety’s for 2\ years before leav-
ing New Zealand.
In 1908 Jim Scrymgeour settled
with his father on Callandoon
Station near Goondiwindi. Before
enlisting in the Light Horse in 1916,
he was exhibiting stud Shorthorn
cattle at the Brisbane Royal,
Toowoomba, Warwick and
Goondiwindi shows.
then in 1916, as a member of the
2nd Light Horse, Scrymgeour was
posted overseas. In 1918, during a
oattle at Merselaba, in the Jordan
Valley, he was shot through the
head and blinded.
In 1919 he went to England, and
entered St. Dunstan’s School for
the Blind.
Returning, he founded Netherby
in 1923 and bred Shorthorn cattle.
In 1936 he bought a bull, Red
Victor (imp. U.S.A.). This polled
bull took the horns off the Netherby
stock, and laid the foundation tor
the polled stud, which was finally
sold in March, 1957.
Scrymgeour was the first Queens-
lander to cross the N.S.W. border
with stud beet-cattle for the Sydney
Show. He has won over 2000 first-
prizes with his stock in the various
show-rings. He received the OJ3.E.
for his services to the cattle-industry.
J. T. -S. Scrymgeour is related to
Viscount Henry James Scrymgeour-
Wedderburn, and on his mother’s
side is descended from Rob Roy
McGregor, the Scottish outlaw
chieftain.
The family-crest depicts a lion’s-
paw holding a broken scimitar with
the motto “Dissipate,” a warning to
enemies to run for their lives. The
family ancestors were hereditary
standard-bearers to the Royal
Family in the 14th century. The
title was conferred upon them in
recognition of their valor at the
battle of Bannockburn (1314).
* * * *
Brief particulars of the begin-
nings of Constitutional government
in Australia ?
Constitutional government in Aus-
tralia dates from 1823, when the
British Government, by the New
South Wales Judicature Act, set-up
a Legislative Council with power to
make laws “for the peace, welfare
and good government” in New
South Wales. The powers of tne
council, however, were strictly
limited. Its members were to be
appointed by the Crown, which
meant that they would be nominated
by the Governor (who had hitherto,
of course, had full power). The
council could not initiate legislation,
and could pass only such laws as
were submitted to it by the
Governor. Furthermore, even if the
majority ot the council were not in
favor of a law, the Governor could
still bring it into effect pending the
decision on the matter by the
British Government. The council
formally came into existence on
Dec. 20, 1825. In July, 1828. the
Judicature Act was amended by
enlarging the Legislative Council to
a maximum of 15 members (at first
it had been “not more than seven
nor fewer than five”), with full
power to reject, by a majority, any
proposals of the Governor. In
1842 the British Government passed
the Act for the Government of
New South Wales and Van
Diemen’s Land, by which the
council was reconstituted, member-
ship being fixed at 36, of whom
24 were elected under a limited
franchise. This gradual limitation
of the power of the Governor, and
the institution of trial-by-jury and
prevention of official control of the
press (both of which had by then
also been secured), were, says Ernest
Scott in A Short History of Aus-
tralia, “the three first important
steps in the direction of Constitu-
tional liberty.” These beginnings of
Constitutional government Jed, by
various steps, to the beginnings of
responsible government in Australia
in 1856.
Brief Answers
KJ.: It is not an opinion that
has be'en too popular in the U.S.A.
Proponents of the idea of building-
up trade with the Communist world
have been found more in British
Commonwealth countries, including
Australia. However, U.S. Secretary
of Agriculture Benson was quoted
only recently (l/4/’57) as advocating
that restrictions on farm trade
between U.S.A. and Communist
countries should be lifted —in order,
for one thing, that the U.S. could
sell its surplus agricultural com-
modities behind the Iron Curtain.
D.P.: Can trace no such quota-
tion, either by the Duke of Welling-
ton or any other 19th-century British
statesman. Nearest we could get to
it was Disraeli’s description of that
country in 1843 as “the bane of
England, and the opprobrium ot
Europe” S.E.G.: (1)- Sir Ross
McLarty resigned in February this
year from the positions of Leader
ol the W.A. Parliamentary Liberal
Party and of Leader of the Opposi-
tion in the W.A. Parliament. (2)
He entered the W.A. Legislative
Assembly in 1930 as M.L.A. for
Murray-Wellington, which seat he


Between
Ourselves
&
Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured egch
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Fati/i ist the
Future
N
*
On the eve of another Anzac Day our thoughts
return in reverence to the men and women who
have died in the defence of Australia and in
protection of its ideals.
Outwardly, one Anzac Day is much like
another. The form of commemoration has
become well established, in Divine services and
parades, in the placing of wreaths and the honour-
ing of shrines.
But beneath the familiar observance is a spirit
that is mystically new because it touches the
Eternal. This is our acknowledgment of a
purchase that was made for us not by material
wealth, nor even by endless toil, but by the
spending of precious Life itself.
Rich though the tributes to their valour be,
sincere though the words of pride-in-sorrow that
this day stirs, I believe that its most exalted
expression is to be found in the silence that is
language of the heart.
The men who died for this country were
ordinaiy men like those who work alongside us
today. In their young visions they did not see
themselves marked as heroes, for there are no
specifications to bravery—and glory is of its own
unexpected making.
And yet by their supreme act of Faith in the
country from which duty drew them, they won for
themselves a fame and for Australia a deathless
tradition.
As each Anzac Day dawns I think of them,
and recall the words the great Pericles delivered in
his funeral oration of the Greek warriors who died
in the defence of Athens: —
“They freely gave their lives for their country
and the common weal, as being the fairest offering
which they could present.
“Not only were they commemorated by
columns and inscriptions in their own country, but
in foreign lands there dwells also an unwritten
memorial of them, graven not on stone but in the
hearts of men.
“Do you therefore now make these men your
example.”
y
was the cover that not one of
the day-bombers was brought
down by enemy action.
The roads all the way back
to Cairo were jammed with
traffic, creeping slowly back;
but, although they made a
perfect target, not once were
our columns attacked by
enemy aircraft. Our fighters
had not only mastery of the
air but complete domination ;
otherwise the retreat of the
Eighth Army might have
become a rout.
There were heavy casualties
among the fighter-pilots, but
so determinedly and magnifi-
cently did they carry on their
offen s i v e that Churchill
announced that the Battle of
Britain was being re-enacted in
the Desert skies . . . ■
Per ardua,ad astra is the apt
motto of the Air Force. Often
the fighter-pilot has himself
had the star billing, but his
flight is ending. He is going
into History to fly top-cover to
his predecessors, the cavalry.
And, like the cavalry, he takes
with him one more touch of
glamor from a world that
science and politics are mak
ing increasingly drab.
Sic itur ad astra.
held till the redistribution in 1950.;
since 1950 he has been M.L.A. for
Murray. Elected Leader of the
Opposition in 1946, he was Premier,
Treasurer, and Minister for Forests
and the North-west from 1947 to
1953. He was created JjC.B.E. in
1953. (3) He has remained in the
House as a private member....
D.L.: (1) The Australasian Perform-
ing Right Association is an associa-
tion of composers, authors and
publishers of copyright musical
works; it was established in 1926,
with the aim of collecting fees for
the public performance of the works
of its members. The association is
a company limited by guarantee,
having no share-capital. It makes
no profit for itself, pays no
dividends, and charges its members
no agency-commission, no entrance-
fees and no subscriptions. (2) The
policy of the association is “to do
justice to composers, authors and-
publishers alike; and all fees col-
lected, with, the exception of the
bare cost of administration, are
distributed amongst those con-
cerned.” (3) The association's
policy and administration are con-
trolled by a board of directors
elected by its members... .R. 0.:
(From the N.S.W. Department of
Main Roads.) (1) During the last
complete financial year (i.e., to
June 30, 1956) a total of 21,038,000
vehicles crossed the Sydney Harbor
Bridge; this total included 297,000
buses. The average weekly number
of vehicles using the Bridge was
404,577; 5711 buses. (2) Approxi-'.
mately 5800 vehicles per hour pass,
over ihe bridge at the peak periods.
(3) From its opening (March 19,
1932) up to June 30, 1956, a total of
219,012,000 vehicles had crossed the
Bridge... .E.F.L.: (From Gavin
Long, General Editor, Official War
History.) The number of local
aliens who were interned in World
War 11 varied from time to time. It
icachcd a maximum of * 6780 in
September, 1942, when 1029
Germans, 3651 Italians and 1036
Japanese were in internment. The
total number of prisoners-of-war
held in Australia as at February
24, 1945. was 23,759 (1568 Ger-
man; 17,772 Italian; 4419 Japanese).
These figures include enemy mer-
chant-seamen, who were held as
prisoners-of-war in conformity with
Empire practice. In addition, after
the Japanese surrender in 1945,
about 140,000 prisoners were held in
Australian New Guinea, and many
more were in areas of Australian
responsibility in the Netherlands
East Indies.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed.
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary .
G.K.: Scales the dizzy heights of
mediocrity.... P.T.: ‘‘Ode to
Flautists” overblown... .S.S.F.:
That must have been inspired b'y a
second - rate horror - flirty.... E.J.:
“Autumn Leaves” waited 0ut....
8.M.: Reads like a summing-up.
..M.N.Almost fell lor that
‘‘pale-complexioned lustrous-haired
Spanish beauty’’.... F.F,:
Gallivanting parson too much for
the Religious Editor R.K.S.:
“Party” unappealing... .S.R.: Bit
late in the year for bathing-beauties.
. ...A.W.: Those “screaming,
grinding trams and clattering
electric-trains” quite too jarring.
G.L.: Long words, bad
grammar M.M.: “The Trom-
bonist” is complaining brassily from
the depths of the w.p.b
K. 8.: Lovesick stenographer turned
away... .A.A.P.: Story about
suicides killed 8.0’M.: It
certainly is a “long, hard road,” and
writing like yours doesn’t make the
going any easier... .W.M.: You
don’t have to tell us it’s “nothing
very much”... .R.K.: Plain dull.
.. . .M.F.P.: A course of para-
graphs should help... .J.J.: “Ode
to a Thermos Flask” vacuous.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
H-BOMB TESTS
COME of the arguments
against Britain’s forthcom-
ing H-bomb tests on Christmas
Island were lately given on
these pages ; here, “boiled down
to its essence” by London
“Daily Telegraph,” is the case
for Britain completing the
tests:
“We [Britain]) believe that
Soviet expansionism is deterred
only by the threat of thermo-
nuclear counter-attack. At the
moment the only country to
possess this deterrent is the
United States. So long as we
rely absolutely on the United
States for our defence we can
never afford to pursue any
policy for long of which Wash-
ington does not approve, or
refrain for long from being
dragged against our will into
any policy on which Washing-
ton insists.
“In other words Britain
without an H-bomb can never
exercise-an independent role in
foreign affairs. Most of us
believe with absolute convic-
tion . that an independent
Britain has an immense contri-
bution to make towards world
peace and prosperity.
“Having taken all known
precautions against all known
risks, the [British] Government
is right to go ahead with the
tests. But it would also be
right to strain every nerve to
prevent a multiplicity of tests in
the future. Russia can afford
to offer a suspension or cessa-
tion of tests. She has had hers
already. When we have had
ours, we should be ready to
put her offer to the test.”
In a later comment, follow-
ing the Commons debate
during which Mr. Macmillan
revealed that nuclear tests
cannot necessarily be detected,
the “Daily Telegraph” added
that “it seems that contrary to
what was earlier believed,
thermonuclear tests can be
secretly carried out”:
“The facile assumption,
therefore, that an agreement
among all the Powers to ban
tests would be enough to solve
the problem no longer holds
water. Inspection and control
are necessary conditions for
such agreement. And so far
the Soviet Union has refused
to agree to any such arrange-
ments. This disposed of the
idea, sedulously propagated by
Socialist members, that nothing
but Tory intransigence stood in
the way of effective nuclear
limitation.”
Commenting on the same
debate and the Labor party’s
attitude, London “Daily Mail”
found “it a shock to learn that
science has advanced so
rapidly that undetectable
explosions can now be made.
The discovery of a bomb silent
as to its origins explains why
it was decided at Bermuda that
limitation of tests could not be
enforced.
“In the absence of general
disarmament or of a total ban
on H-bomb tests, experiments
will proceed and radioactive
build-up in the atmosphere
proceed.
“It is a sombre outlook. But
it does not help for a Labor
M.P. to shout emotionally (as
one did): ‘The House is really
appalled at these things.’ Of
course the House is appalled.
We are all appalled. But the
peril has been exaggerated.
“Even more appalling,” the
“Daily Mail” adds, “would be
the dropping of H-bombs on
our country [Britain]. It is
to prevent this that we are
developing the nuclear weapon.
That is why it is called The
Deterrent.
“Those who demand that
Britain should ‘make a gesture’
and abandon her first test
would rob us even of the frail
safety that The Deterrent
affords. Once we have the
bomb we shall be better placed
to bargain for international
control:
“What would the Socialists
do if they were in power? That
straight question was put by
the Prime Minister to Mr.
Gaitskell. Would he cancel the
tests?
“Mr. Gaitskell replied with
a quibble. His answer was to
urge the Government to* induce
the U.S. to give us her atomic
secrets. Which was no answer
at all.
“What would Mr. Gaitskell
do? The country is entitled to
knew. If he cancelled the
tests, would he accept the con-
sequences? These, said Mr.
Macmillan, would be continued
conscription, the raising of
vast armies, and inferiority in
armed strength.
“There is another he did not
mention. Without the H-bomb
we should be a client-State of
the U.S. Yet those who want
this, and shout for it, are the
same who bawl that our accep-
tance of American missiles
makes us the 49th State.
“There is no logic, no reason
in such arguments. They are
the shrill cries of a party divided
on this life-and-death question.
One half takes a responsible
view. The other makes political
capital out of human fear.”
The Navy's Role
On the surface, Edinburgh
“Scotsman” notes, the hand-
ing-over of the British naval
base at Simonstown “looks
New York “Herald Tribune "
COME HOME TO ROOST
like a good bargain for
Britain”:
“She will get a substantial
payment in sterling for the
dockyard installations, and will
be rid of the increasing diffi-
culties of -running the base,
while at the same time she will
retain the right to use it both
in peace and in war. It seems
just another sensible economy,
and part of the process of
streamlining the Navy for the
commitments of the modern
age.”
The hand-over is equally
pleasing to South Africa —
“she regards this as a political
triumph, and the dissolution
of yet another x>f the outward
symbols of the British
‘colonial’ concept. There is a
feeling that she has rid herself
of a Gibraltar, a foreign
enclave Within her territories.”
The decision to hand-over
the base, however, the “Scots-
man” comments, “should have
been reached purely on its
military and strategic merits,”
and it was “unwelcome if not
dangerous” for politics to have
entered into it:
“Nor is Simonstown by any
means the only example of
this undue pressure of politics
upon the knots that hold
together the whole network of
Commonwealth defence. The
process began with Eire —and
how much the loss of the Irish
bases meant to the defence of
the Atlantic in the last war —-
and it can be seen at work in
Ceylon and in Singapore, to
quote only two instances.
“Simonstown may seem of.
lessening importance because
of the rundown of the Navy,
and there are even those who
argue 'that nuclear war has
rendered the accepted concepts
of naval defence obsolete.
Those are particularly
dangerous assumptions to
make.
“The terrible power of
nuclear weapons is indeed
likely to render their use on


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 4
,
ill
Sugarloaf Point
There's an old saying among sailors to the effect that more
wrecks occur near lighthouses than on unlighted parts of a
coast. Of course, there are several reasons for this. The
most important are that lights are always placed where
shipping hazards are greatest and where sea traffic is high.
As a result, the likelihood of wrecks increases with the
dangers of a locality and its nearness to big centres of
population.
These factors largely account for the heavy toll of ships
on or near Seal Rocks, south of Forster. Some 20 wrecks
have occurred in the area since the lighthouse was established
in 1875. These include one of Australia's biggest shipping
disasters—the wreck of the steamer Catterthun in 1895 when
bound from Sydney to China. Fifty-five lives were lost.
Another overseas ship wrecked in the locality was the
steamer Satara in 1910 when on a trip from Sydney to India.
More than 100 people were saved from this wreck.
Before the light was established, the many dangers of
Seal Rocks led to long arguments as to whether a light should
be placed on the Rocks or on the mainland nearby at Sugar-
loaf Point. The Point was selected in 1878, but the light
carries both names —either Seal Rocks or Sugarloaf Point.
Here, a 38 ft. circular brick and cement tower was erected
and apparatus installed at a cost of nearly £19,000.
The light, which is 258 ft. above high water, came into use
on December 1> 1875, with N. Fairclough the principal keeper.
In addition to the main white flashing light, which
was originally of 122,000 candle power, there is a subsidiary
fixed green fight of about 150 candle power. This green
light can be seen for three miles and covers Seal Rocks and
nearby dangers.
On April 1, 1923, the white fight was increased to 174,000
candle power. It is visible for 22 miles.
Three lightkeepers are stationed here (they are among
the 29 keepers employed in N.S.W. lighthouses) ; they re-
ceive supplies from Bungwahl, which is 10 miles away.
The position of this light in latitude 32° 26' south, longi-
tude 152° 33' east. It is 110 miles north of Sydney by sea.
There's Safety in the quality oj
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents:
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CL4
the grand scale, that is in major
wars between great Powers,
something that may never be
pressed to its ultimate frightful
end. But that may well result
in an encouragement of the
unscrupulous to foment minor
wars and dispersed campaigns
of politico-military violence.
“To meet such circumstances,
to take the ‘fire-brigade’ action
that can quickly quench such
conflagrations before they have
the chance to spread, the naval
force, always ready and mobile,
is surely of unequalled value.
There is an urgent need to work
out among the Commonwealth
countries a new defence-
system with particular emphasis
on the responsibility of each
of the partners for a share in
this widespread police-duty.”
Indian Elections
Naturally, perhaps, reports
on the Indian elections gave
rather undue prominence to
the Communist victory in one
State (Kerala), considering that
the National Congress Party
was returned in what Lon-
don “Economist” describes as
a walkover:
“Congress candidates haye
won three out of every four
seats in Parliament, and two
out of every three in the State
assemblies. They got half of all
the votes .polled (a higher per-
centage than in 1952) and
nearly three-times as many as
the combined vote of their two
main opponents, the Com-
munists and the P r a j a
Socialists.
“Only in Kerala and Orissa
did they fail to get an absolute
majority ; and they got nearly
twice as many votes as the
Communists in the old Com-
munist stronghold of Telengana
now absorbed into Andhra.
“Despite the tension with
Pakistan, the Hindu communal
parties have been reduced to
complete impotence, with their
vote important only in a few
northern areas and their leaders
routed everywhere. Finally,
the absorption of the Akali
Sikhs has given Congress an
impregnable hold in the
Punjab. It might seem an
occasion for hosannas. Instead,
there has been soul-searching.
“Nobody is very worried
about Orissa, where the reasons
for defeat were local: old
squabbles within the Congress
party, Orissa’s boundary dis-
pute with Bihar, the popularity
of some ex-princes in their old
State's. Either the Congress or
the princes’ party, the Gana-
tantra Parishad, will form a
coalition with the independents
and minor parties, or the two
will join together; whatever
happens, policy is likely to be
much the same.
“There is more concern about
Kerala. New Delhi cannot be
very intimate with a Com-
munist State Government,
especially in intelligence
matters. On the other hand, the
Kerala Communists are bound
to be on their best behavior.
Their majority is only two.
They have none of the devotion
to violence of their colleagues
in Telengana. They know all
India will be watching them,
and that President’s rule will
be imposed if New Delhi finds
them behaving unconstitution-
ally.
“They may well choose to
make a reputation by such solid
measures as land-reform, and
avoid clashes with Delhi over
such extreme measures as try-
ing to nationalise foreign-
owned plantations.”
Commenting further on the
significance of the Communist
victory in Kerala, “Manchester
Guardian” adds that “the
Indian Communist party is
faced with interesting
problems”:
“In order to keep its hold on
Kerala, will it behave so
correctly that Communism will
lose its essential nature? Will
it decide that it is unsafe to use
Kerala as its base for planning
subversion elsewhere in India?
“Delhi may see in the Com-
munist victory in Kerala a way
of taming the Indian Com-
munist party, and detaching it
from some of its international
associations.
“The Indian Government has
been alert against Com-
munism in internal matters. Its
vigilance will not need any
stimulation from outside: and
any suggestion that if Delhi
tolerates a Communist Kerala
it is sympathetic with Com-
munism will be mischief-mak-
ing of an unprincipled kind.”
British Capital for
Australia
Letter from C. H. Bridgford,
Victorian M.L.C. visiting
Britain, to London “Daily
Telegraph”: “I am constantly
asked [in Britain] the question:
‘ls Australia becoming the
49th State of America?’
“It is alarming to think that
such a question should arise.
But it is significant that in Vic-
toria, Australia’s most rapidly
expanding industrial State,
British interests are now sup-
plying only 60 per cent, of the
oversea investment. The other
40 per cent, is coming mainly
from America, although the
United States began investing in
Australia only in the last eight
years..
“It is difficult to understand
why British interest is declin-
ing, but easy to realise why
American interest is increasing.
Surely the greatest assurance an
investor needs is that his capital
is safe.
“Australia is politically stable
and protected by the Constitu-
tion from nationalisation and
expropriation the greatest
assurance any investor needs.
Australia prefers investment by
private enterprise which is
always accompanied by ‘know-
how,’ rather than international
loans.
“We must expand and cannot
look any gift-horse in the
mouth. Should not the horse
carry British colors?”
Britain—U.S. View
“New York Times” editorial
summing-up of Britain and
the British, prompted by Drew
Middleton (head of the paper’s


iifhur
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH, LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
London bureau) describing
them as “proud, stubborn,
opinionated and tough” as
ever:
“This is another way of
saying that they are confident,
resourceful, courageous and
determined. The world may
be thinking that the British are
not what they used to be, that
the empire is gone, that Britain
is a 'second- or third-rate
Power. One is reminded of
Hitler’s conviction that the
British were beaten in 1940.
Unfortunately for him, the
British didn’t know it and they
just went on fighting.
“The Briton of today is not
bemoaning the ‘loss’ of colonies
like India and the Gold Coast.
On the contrary, he is proud
of having brought them to in-
dependence and kept them
linked with him in a new Com-
monwealth.
“The financial City of Lon-
don may not hold a command-
ing position any more in
regions like South America,
but the pound-sterling is still
by far the most-widely-used
currency in the world, many
British products—from jet-
planes to whisky—are Incom-
parable, and the individual
Briton, taken on the average,
lives better than he ever did
in history.
“One need not wonder too
much, therefore, at the survival
of the notorious British com-
placency. The only major field
in which there are frustration
and bitterness, perhaps, is in
the ability to exercise the
power of olden days.”
Lord Salisbury and
Cyprus
British press-comment on
the resignation -of Lord Salis-
bury over the Government’s
Cyprus policy :
London “Time and Tide”:
“The resignation of Lord Salis-
bury is probably the most
significant, certainly the most
sharply tragic, vicissitude which
has befallen the Conservative
party in many years.
“The issue on which Lord
Salisbury resigned must be
seen in relation to a more
general picture, for British
policy in Cyprus is in many
ways a crucial test of our con-
temporary capacity for states-
manship—a test such as our
Indian policy was, or our
Palestine policy, or our
Egyptian policy. We failed
miserably in all those previous
tests. We failed to act with
wisdom, courage and honor ;
we were opportunist, we were
weak, we were muddled.
“For that reason Cyprus
today is so harsh an issue and
the question whether or not to
release Archbishop Makarios
from detention in the Sey-
chelles, and on what conditions,
is of such unrelenting import-
ance that Lord Salisbury, Lord
President of the Council,
Leader of the House of Lords,
the most influential, the most
respected and without doubt
the best Minister in the Cabinet,
differing from his colleagues
about the answer to be given,
felt impelled to resign.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“The head and front of Lord
Salisbury’s charge is that, by
releasing Archbishop Makarios
without his making an unequi-
vocal denunciation of terrorism,
the Government have gone
back on a policy to which they
were pledged ; and that in so
doing they have handed the
Archbishop the initiative on a
line of progressive appease-
ment of the Greek Cypriots,
to the grave injury of our
relations with our good ally
Turkey.”
# * *
London “Economist” :
“Politically, the important
point is that, forced to choose
between releasing Archbishop
Makarios and retaining Lord
Salisbury, Mr. Macmillan kept
the policy and let the peer go.
Nothing could more clinchingly
disprove that he has been
Lenny the Lion to Lord Salis-
bury’s ventriloquy.”
* * *
London “Observer”: “As to
the merits of the Government’s
Cyprus policy, we [the
“Observer”] believe that policy
is now moving in the right
direction, but tardily and still
without giving evidence of
having a decided idea of what
shape the final settlement in
Cyprus should take. Such a
reluctant progression must
inevitably encourage both
London “Daily Mirror”
“THIS IS WHERE WE CAME IN”
Greece and Turkey (now
further stimulated by Lord
Salisbury’s action) to keep up
their pressure in the hope of
achieving better terms.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“Lord Salisbury, reflecting
what may well be a common
feeling on the Right of the
Conservative party, has resigned
over the release of Archbishop
Makarios. Whatever the effect
on the immediate issue—and
that may be serious—his going
will weaken Mr. Macmillan’s
Government.
“Lord Salisbury believes that
the Government has launched
itself on a policy in Cyprus
which will lead it into deeper
difficulties. But what do he
and his fellows want? Endless
repression and no negoti-
ations?”
* * *
London “News Chronicle” :
“No doubt Archbishop
Makarios needs to be watched
carefully. He is certainly a
skilled negotiator and may well
be a slippery one. But if the
Cabinet had continued to
refuse to treat with the Arch-
bishop, the only result could
be mounting hatred and in-
creasing embarrassment for
Britain.”
The Australian
Market
London “Financial Times’*
view of the relaxation of Aus-
tralian import-restrictions:
“While the general pattern of
Australian import liberalisation
makes encouraging news for
British exporters, it would be
unfortunate if it were to lead
to a placing of too much
reliance on the Australian
market. While the experience
of 1956, when the U.S. replaced
Australia as Britain’s largest
single market, may not be
typical, the tendency for the
U.S. to replace Australia as
this country’s chief export-
outlet has been evident for
some years.
“The inclination of some
British businessmen to con-
centrate on sterling - area
markets, where contacts have
been established and trading
methods are familiar, is an
understandable one; but it is
dangerous in view of what is


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO COLIN CAMPBELL HAIG late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that EILEEN
VICTORIA HAIG has filed her Petition
for Divorce No. 1713 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you intend to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 21st of June 1957 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. N. D. THOMAS, ANDERSON
& HEAVENER, Solicitors, 51 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. — In Divorce.
TO HENRY FRANCIS BUSH late of
John’s River. —TAKE NOTICE that
LORNA MADGE BUSH has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4245 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for thiee years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 24th of June 1957 and
obtain g copy of the Petition without
charge from A. ALISTER JOIWSON &
MCDONALD, Solicitors, of 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle; or JOHN CORCORAN
& CO., Solicitors, of 2 York Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
23
The proper approach
to Bell's
Sniff it . • • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it.. • Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
jSI r
BELtS
■ACjCU
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthurßell & Sons Ltd • Distillers, Perth, Scotland • Est. 1825
London “Daily Express”
YOU CAN’T WIN
known about world trends in
exports of manufactured goods.
“Between 1951 and 1955
sales of all countries to North
America increased by 35 per
cent.; sales to Western Europe
rose by 38 per cent., while s
sterling-area markets expanded
by only 8 per cent. In so far
as it is possible to predict, it
would appear likely that future
trends will be in the same
direction.”
To which “Manchester
Guardian” adds that Australian
trade-links with Britain “are
wearing thinner”:
“Already they [Australians]
are negotiating with the
Japanese, who are among their
best customers for wool, wheat,
and metals, and have been
complaining more and more
loudly of Australian import-
restrictions and tariffs.
“Trade-missions also have
been sent to India and Ceylon.
Above all, the Japanese will
be ready to sell to Australia
what she wants to buy, where
too many British firms still tend
to ask prospective customers
if they would like what we
have ready to sell.
“British firms generally must
move more quickly both in
offering to meet requirements
and in delivering the goods.
Sadly it is still necessary to
stress that textiles must be
suitable to the climate and
fashionable in Australian eyes,
machinery must always be
suitable for the physical con-
ditions to be met, and, where
necessary, spare parts and
maintenance must be made
available as efficient American
and German firms make them.”
Various Voices
Admiral Burke (United States
Chief of Naval Operations) :
“Survival under attack depends
on the ability of the free world
to come quickly to the support
of beleaguered nations by sea
with modern hard-hitting
Army, Navy and Air Force
teams. The free world will
continue to use the surface of
the seas. There can be no free
world unless we do. In the
nuclear-missile age the side
which commands the seas will
not be defeated.”
* * *
Sir Thomas Be e chain :
“Generally speaking, it is
almost impossible to live in this
country (Great Britain) and it
is quite impossible to die in it.
Nobody can afford to die in it.”
* * *
Nigel Birch (Conservative
M.P.): “The Free Trade Area
[in Europe] is desirable ; it is
not essential. If we cannot get
it on reasonable terms, then we
shall still be able to make
economic progress, though
under greater difficulties ; our
standard of living, in the long
run, will still rise, though it
will not rise so fast. We must
recognise that it would be
possible to pay too high a price
for the Free Trade Area, in
sacrificing our ties with the
Commonwealth.”
* * *
W. W. Early (President,
Bradford Textile Society):
“There will be very differing
views on the effectiveness of
this Common Market. But it is
a great conception, and could
be one of the biggest turning-
paints in history. As far as
we in the U.K. are concerned,
it is not a question of a choice
between the Common Market
and things as they are, but
between the Common Market
and things as they will be with
the Common Market in
existence.” 1
* . * *
Edward Martell (chairman
of Britain’s People’s League for
the Defence of Freedom):
“Napoleon once said that
England was a nation of shop-
keepers—today it can be said
that England is a nation of
shop-stewards.”
* * *
Percival F. Brundage,
Director of the U.S. Budget :
“They’re having a lot of
trouble in Russia. We think
of our troubles, but they’re
having a substantial amount of
difficulty with the satellites and
their own they’ve been
educating these people, and
you can't educate a person
without letting him think,
otherwise he won t learn.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Automation
When Americans claim that
automation will reduce work-
ing-hours to 30 per week they
are forgetting history. The
Industrial Revolution, mass-
production and automation
are as old as history and are
nearly synonymous terms.
When the Minoans and
the Romans built aqueducts
into their capitals, whereby
water flowed automatically to
the desired point, wasn’t that
automation? When, too, the
Phoenicians made jewellery for
the primitive natives of Britain
and elsewhere they followed
the line of Ford’s “mass-
production.”
In the middle of the 18 th
century the Duke of Bridge-
water had built for him a canal
from the adit of his coalmine
into the city of Manchester
whereby barges drawn by one
horse transported 10 to 20 tons
of coal, replacing pack-horses
with baskets over a 42-mile
journey.
Could automation
bring about anything
more revolutionary than
the steam-engine of Watt
and Trevithick, the loco-
motive of Stephenson,
the electric motor (due 1
to many inventors)
or the Bessemer process,
which reduced the time
of conversion of cast-
iron to steel from days
per ton to tons per hour,
and revolutionised the
use and price of steel?
It should be noted
also that automation
requires costly and com-
plicated machinery
which takes much labor
to build. It also requires
such items as expensive
cutting-tools using rare
metals which have been
extracted from large
amounts of dirt by
elaborate metallurgical
\ processes. Add mainten-
ance, and the net saving
in manpower may not be
so great as many expect.
In any case, in Aus-
tralia, where we still
have our slums, inade-
quate housing, deficient
hospitalisation, rails that
do not meet and roads
broken or unbuilt, we
cannot afford to give away any
advantage that we might obtain
from automation. —L.M. D.
(Vic.).
Cheques and Receipts
Many business-houses are
introducing methods of paying
accounts by cheque which do
not require the posting-back of
a receipt; with slight varia-
tions, the system means that
the customer keeps one part of
the account as a record, while
the cheque itself is theoretically
eventual proof that the account
has been paid.
As a time- arid money-saver
in big and busy offices the
method undoubtedly has value,
but it seems to overlook One
thing. A receipt is evidence
that an account has been paid,
and the new “record-plus-
cheque” may suffice for this ;
but a receipt has a second
purport —it is an acknowledg-
ment that the debt has been
paid to the right quarter.
Sending a cheque and keep-
ing a record may be all very
well, but it gives the sender no
assurance that his account has
in fact been paid. Thus the
situation may arise where a
cheque may in. fact fall into
wrong hands and be mis-
used, or where it may go
astray with unfortunate results
should the payment be required
against a deadline.
Eventually, the monthly
balance from the bank may set
one’s mind at rest, but there
must be many periods of
doubt. It would be interesting
to know how the new method
stood up in law if, in a dis-
puted issue, the company
claimed that an account had
not been paid, but the debtor
produced the evidence required
under the new method that he
had posted his cheque.
The old conception of the
receipt as proof had a good
deal to be said for it. — Dee
(N.S.W.).
Standard-gauge Railway
Reports that the Federal
Cabinet sub-committee on rail-
gauge standardisation will pro-
bably recommend a start on
the Melboume-Wodonga link
have Westralians hopping-
mad.
They are even more incensed
at the news that the Fremantle-
Kalgoorlie strip will probably
be listed last in the seven-year,
£41,500,000 programme. The
way they see it, Westralia
needs that project far more
than any other State and needs
it badly.
"Which floor?”
It certainly would solve a
lot of problems for the West,
which is the State hardest-hit
by unemployment at the
moment. Matters have im-
proved slightly since last
year’s ominous slump, but the
improvement may be only sea-
sonal, and in any case things
are not yet anywhere near
normal.
If a start were made on the
line from Fremantle to Kal-
goorlie, Sandgropers would
have the pleasure of seeing
more jobs offering and more
money being spent in the State.
There would not only be
employment offering on the
line. Timber-mills would be
brought out of their present
slack period to provide
sleepers, and other industries
would also show , a sharp
revival.
Economists see the whole
State looking up and beaming
at such treatment, and all this
from expenditure of only £lB
million, which is chickenfeed
compared with modej* Gov-
ernment spending.
In contrast, the work on the
Victorian link is not so much
an economic proposition as a
strategical one. Westralians
feel that it could be left a year
or two to give their State a
chance to catch up economic-
ally. The Victorians have
plenty of work they can go on
with in the meantime —hous-
ing, for instance. As Gavin
Casey comments in his Perth
daily - newspaper column:
“However eager the N.S.W. and
Victorian members of the
Federal Cabinet sub-commit-
tee are to push the Melboume-
Wodonga link ahead, they
should put their housing in
order first.” — Lee (W.A.).
TV for Asia?
All reports of the difficulties
of the “underdeveloped”
nations of Asia state that one
of the major problems is the
shortage of trained teachers in
all grades from primary to
university. Wouldn’t it be
better, therefore, for the
Colombo Plan countries to
supply education through TV
instead of handing out vast
sums (Australia’s whack is
running at £6 million annually)
for tractors and locomotives
and other things which are
hardly likely to evoke many
responsive echoes in the
hearts„of Asians generally?
If we made a start with the
Seato members of Asia it seems-
possible that TV-stations send-
ing out education-programmes


could be set up fairly easily,
and receiving-sets installed in
schools throughout the
country. Western technicians
could look after them and train
Asians in their use, and Wes-
terners could co-operate in the
preparation of the programmes.
It may be argued that the
facilities might be put to wrong
uses, and that they would pro-
vide ready-made avenues for
Communist propaganda. Any
facilities, of course, can be
misused if Communists take
over a country, but this
shouldn’t happen among our
Asian allies at least. It might
be, also, that the programmes
would be picked up by near-
by nations, with results which
would be all to the good. The
education shouldn’t be propa-
ganda, but it would demon-
strate the benefits of our way
of life. Have the Colombo
Plan people ever considered this
idea?— ln the ACT (A.C.T.).
Terrace-houses
The terrace-house is a com-
monly-despised form of build-
ing in Australia, having
become synonymous with
slumdom, and few, if any,
such houses have been built
within the last half-century.
Yet a large proportion of them
were built for middle-class
and well-to-do people, and
their solid construction, fine
ironwork and other details ■
have much to recommend
them. They declined in status
and appearance when the
original tenants began to move
into detached houses in outer
“garden-suburbs.” In England
to this day, however, many
middle-class and rich families
live in terraces —most of the
houses in aristocratic Mayfair
are of the terrace-type.
The terrace-house is cheaper
to build than the detached
house. It permits a far more
impressive architectural effect
and an equivalent number of.
people can be lodged in far
less ground-space. Provision
of services sewerage, gas,
electricity—is more economical
and, with modern soundproof-
ing, the terrace-house can be
just as comfortable and private
as the detached house. .
In areas where both - are
allowable, fiats are preferred
to terraces, because they pro-
vide more accommodation, and,
therefore, more rent. The
terrace enjoys a similar
advantage over the detached
house in areas where flats are
prohibited. If more of them
were built they would restrict
“Representing Ringer Washing-machines !”
the tendency of Australian
cities to sprawl for many miles
with consequent problems of
transport and living costs. —-
CuNEDDA (N.S.W.).
Aitape
I agree with “Dolphin”
(B. 10/4/’57) in his refutation
of “Wild Harry” (B. 27/2/’57).
“W.H.’s” incident of R.A.A.F.
men lining-up for tucker on the
Tadji airstrip while Jap bullets
whizzed past does not tally with
my experiences at Aitape.
Admittedly I was never at the
airstrip ; but the one authentic
incident I ever heard about of
Japs firing at an R.A.A.F.
mess-queue happened at
Labuan.
Actually the six months I
spent at Aitape were the six
most idyllic and undangerous
months of my Air Force life.
Most of them were passed in a
camp near the beach, on which
I spent a fair bit of each day
— ; we were overstaffed for a
change, and could take it easy.
The exact date of the
assault on Aitape, for “D.’s”
benefit, was April 22, 1944 (a
Saturday). The same day saw
a simultaneous strike at*
Hollandia, a hundred or so
miles further north along the
New Guinea coast, and at the
time a more important Japanese
base than Aitape. (For some
reason the date has stuck in my
mind.)
I was with an R.A.A.F.
signals-unit, and was loaded,
with other R.A.A.F. personnel
and equipment, aboard an
L.S.T. at Lae, one of many
there preparing for the
assaults. This was a full three
weeks before the eventual
landings, and in the meantime
we twice sailed up and down
the coast to Buna and back
before setting out —in convoy,
of course —on the trip proper.
The contingents to the two
landings sailed as one convoy,
separating in the dark of the
night before the dawn attacks.
Roused in the early hours, we
got up on deck in the grey half-
light to find our convoy
standing off a hazy, unknown
coastline, with several ships of
the line keeping up a heavy
bombardment shoreward. (This
was the barrage laid down by
Shropshire, Australia and the
U.S.N. squadron, as stated by
“D.”)
When we landed, later in the
morning, all was quiet along
the shoreline, apart from the
hustle of the landing opera-
tions. A few dead Japs lay
about. My sigs.-unit proceeded
to try to establish communi-
cation with base (Nadzab), and
to set-up camp; but some of
us managed to sneak off on
walkabout. In the after-
noon we lay on the beach
in the sun undisturbed
and seeming remote from war ;
we even considered stripping
for a swim, but (not knowing
what we learned later) decided
we might happen to get caught
with our pants down.
Actually, there weren’t many
Japs at Aitape. It wasn’t one
of their big bases. It was
garrisoned in the main, I
believe, by a hospital unit —
on our early wanderings we
found a building (which had
survived the bombardment)
that had been used as a
hospital, with the bodies of
some Javanese laborers lying
inside. Resistance by the
Japs was relatively very light.
On the night after the landing,
in a tropical downpour, one
solitary plane from But or
Dagua did come over and
dropped an “egg” on a well-
lit Liberty-ship and scrammed.
But that was the one and only
air-raid on Aitape—the Japs
had only one or two planes
in the area, anyway, which
were soon put out of action.
General Adachi’s 18th Army
had little kick left in it, and
the Aitape remnants quickly lit
out for the hills.
The Japs did hold out for a
day or so (though they were
never a real menace) on one
of the three islands which form
Aitape—which isn’t a 'bay at
all, though a very safe
anchorage, and therefore useful
enough for MacArthur's
“leap-frogging” purposes.
A Japanese major, captured
in the first day or so, gave us
a momentary scare by boasting
that Aitape would soon be
fetaken —but it was a vain
boast with nothing to back it.
As far as I can recall, there was
little real fighting even on the
perimeter, certainly not on the
airstrip. That was a bit of


“post-war fantasy” on “Wild
Harry’s” part.— Kros (S.A.).
Sydney Transport
Sydney is going ahead with
its plan for scrapping trams in
favor of buses despite the
experiences of Perth (W.A.)
and Auckland (N.Z.).
In Perth, they have found
already that buses, besides con-
tributing so much to the disin-
tegration of street-surfaces, are
costing more and still more to
run. Auckland had quite a
good tramway-service which
gave general satisfaction.
Some may have been noisy,
some were worn-out and not
replaced, and much of the
permanent-way needed repair.
But you could depend on trams
running to timetable and they
could cope with rush-hour
crowds.
Now we have buses. In the
first place, the management in
its annual reports always
blamed any losses to the cost
of running trams ; the buses
were always “paying their
way.” What do we find now?
The moment buses superseded
trams, fares were raised by
about one-third.
This was followed b y
another rise when more trams
were discarded, and as the
last trams were put off the
fares went up by from 10 per
cent, to 50 per cent., depending
on whether you bought conces-
sion-cards or paid cash.
Finally, concession-cards are
not usable on Sundays or
Saints’ Days.
Bus-stops are much farther
apart than were tram-stops,
sections are shorter and most
stops are out in the open,
where intending passengers
have to wait while the con-
ductor-driver clips tickets and
gives change to those whom he
is able to fit in—at rush-times
far too many are left to wait
for the rtext bus.
On top of all this, the buses
are showing such losses that
the ratepayers—not the users
■—have to meet an ever-increas-
ing levy. Sydney transport
authorities would do well to
investigate Auckland’s
experience before committing
themselves irrevocably to
buses. — Kiwi (N.Z.).
Municipal Elections
Whatever, may be said in
favor of compulsory voting in
State and Federal polls there’s
nothing to recommend it in
municipal elections.
After every triennial local-
government elections, N. S.
Wales municipalities and shires
have to spend thousands of
pounds' asking people why they
did not vote. Strathfield
Council, for example, had to
spend £lO4 11s. on printing and
posting notices after a check
revealed that 2674 persons
enrolled had apparently failed
to vote at the triennial elec-
tion of February 1, 1957.
A council rarely has grounds
for action against the non-
voter, who can generally make
a reasonable excuse. Unlike
State and Federal elections,
which are extensively publi-
cised, municipal elections get
so little publicity that many
citizens may not know that an
election is in progress. TJiis
applies particularly with by-
elections.
Many voters don’t live in the
municipality non - resident
property - owners are also
enrolled. A ratepayer in this
category may live hundreds of
miles away. A relative of mine
owned property in a town a
couple of hundreds of miles
from her place of residence.
She votes by post to save
being questioned, but she
hasn't a clue about the candi-
dates.
With voluntary voting, rate-
payers who take a keen interest
in municipal affairs will go to
the polls. The others, whose
vote is generally irresponsible,
would stay at home. — Morris
the Tinker (N.S.W.).
Comics
The comic has been used for
educational purposes for many
years (“L.H.,” B. 3/4/’57).
Apart from the familiar paper-
covered comics, Governments
have used comic-films —many
drawn by Walt Disney to
educate the masses in better
food, health and even agri-
cultural practices.
Some that come readily to
mind are the excellent films
made for the Inter Americas
“Old friends or not —never slap me on the hack when I'm
drinking from a fountain."
Commission of Health. They
have done much to educate
Latin Americans in better
living-standards. Their message,
conveyed by comic figures, was
understood by even the poorly
educated.
Comics needn't be “tripe.”
They can convey a message or
provide entertainment as deep
or as rich as the celebrated
authors of the past. But they
do it in a way that is attractive
to the young eye. The illus-
trations provide a clearer pic-
ture of the story and the
language is simple yet direct.
Of course, like any literature,
comics can do harm, but such
comics are no more suitable
for young people than is a lot
of doubtful adult literature.—
Robbie (Q.).
The prospect of comics being
studied in schools of the
future would be bearable if
they were all of the Robin
Hood type, but has “L.H.”
encountered some of the more
vicious and senseless specimens
that are being devoured by
today’s kids?
I’m all in favor of films,
radio, TV and comics being
used in schools —but only up
to a point. Children should not
be permitted to become so
accustomed to looking at pic-
tures that their capacity to
read and to think for them-
selves is impaired. Mental
laziness is the greatest deterrent
to individual initiative and
development.— Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
The Freelance
As a young and aspiring
scribbler 35 years ago I found
the going anything but hard.
The Bulletin, “Smith’s
Weekly,” “Aussie,” “The
Triad” and several other
periodicals provided steady
markets. It was the golden age
for freelances.
Came the depression, with life
too stern for daydreams, and
for over 30 years editors ceased
to dominate my cosmos. Retir-
ing from business recently I ran
a speculative eye over the free-
lance market to find that it had
almost ceased to exist.
Staff-jobs on newspapers are,
of course, always available for
bright young men, and
established literary talent can’t
be ignored, but there is no
longer much scope for the
casual writer. It seems a pity,
particularly for the youngsters
who generally work their way
through pars, and bits to more
serious writing. Most of them,
of course, never make it, but it


has been smartly said that no
one can write a novel who
can’t first write a paragraph.
In the years immediately
following World War I the
market for short pieces was at
least five times as good as it
is today. Stories and feature-
articles would show better
figures, but it must be
emphasised that even frequent
story-competitions are no sub-
stitute for markets.
Apart from fiction —and here
the local writer is frequently
shouldered out by imported
work —the freelance is prob-
ably just as much out of place
today in journalism as. he
would be in any other sphere
of our regimented lives. —
Saaedi (N.S.W.).
Post Office Loss
Another whopping loss by
the Post Office emphasises the
need for economies which can
be effected without reducing
service to the public.
In my own Geelong district
of Victoria we see panel-vans
of a well-known American
make being used by the depart-
ment. Why can’t this require-
ment be met by a van pro-
duced by our own Australian
motor-industry without paying
a higher price and using vital
dollars for a vehicle made in
JJ.S.A.?
I’ve also noticed that the
Defence Department uses
vehicles made in U.S.A. for its
light-runabout transport. Such
expenditure also should be
pruned —or have we so much to
spend on defence we can afford
to be lavish with it? — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
New Zealand Hotels
In the last year a vast change
has come ov6r N.Z. hotels and
their regard for the comfort of
guests. There is hardly a hotel
up and down the whole country
that has not effected consider-
able improvement.
Lately, in Palmerston North,
I stayed at a hotel where, for
the reasonable tariff of
£1 14s. 6d. per day, full board,
with special conveniences
usually only found in places
with much higher charges, was
cheerfully provided.
Meals could be had 24 hours
a day, guests were asked to
leave shoes to be cleaned free,
and a morning paper came
gratis with early tea —though
many hotels put 3d. extra on
the bill for this service, a thing
that irritates customers.
Moreover the staff was extra
keen and efficient, particularly
the porter —he was only 16.
O. W. W. (N.Z.).
A REAL LABOR POLICY
By JAS. MACANSH
“ A PARTY with real Labor
ideals” (B. 20/2/’57) is
a necessity in Australia ; and,
if led by men in jvhose capacity
and integrity the workers had
faith, it would seldom be out
of office.
The first thing really capable
leaders would do would be to
overhaul the old Labor plat-
form and scrap a few worn-
out planks particularly
socialisation. Almost every
experiment in Socialism tried
in Australia has been a failure,
useful only in exposing
“ We're NOT prepared, as yet, to discuss a return-match .”
the inherent weaknesses in
Socialism itself. Workers with
a little commonsense will have
none of it and have consistently
thrown out Governments
responsible for saddling the
taxpayers with losses on ineffi-
cient State enterprises.
That is how conservative
parties in Australia get to be
Governments —they are put
into office by workers not
because we agree with their
policy or identify ourselves
with the interests they repre-
sent, but as the less of two
evils. As a rule, we have had
no third choice.
What, then, are we to do?
The war against Communism
in Australia —or elsewhere, for
that matter —will not be won
by splinter political parties,
whether stemming from con-
servative or moderate Labor
groups, nor by any mere
middle-of-the-road party.
Communism is an idea, and
can only be beaten by another
idea which supplants it; a
positive idea, not a negation of
ideas, which can supplant
nothing.
Australia needs a party with
a new, dynamic policy of its
own—a party prepared to
blaze its own track, disregard-
ing the old bullock-dray roads
we have been following to
futility for a generation.
Because Australian voters are
almost 100 per cent, workers,
and because the word Labor
means so very much to so
many of us, a revitalised, re-
oriented Labor party has more
chance of success than a new
party, which —partly but not
entirely because of the diffi-
culty of raising adequate
funds—would be unlikely to
accomplish much,, or to have
more than a nuisance-value for
years to come.
I want to see a Labor party
which will fight Communism
and the root-causes of Com-
munism through a new social
concept and political pro-
gramme ; which will restore
to the workers real hope of
bettering themselves; and
which will oust Communism
by outmoding it.
The more thoughtful and
better-informed workers have
been worried for years by
the doldrums into which Labor
thought and politics have
drifted, and are sick and tired
of Red skulduggery in the
unions, but those who had any
constructive ideas have been
inept at expressing them.
The first real break in the
fog came perhaps unfor-
tunately, as things turned out
—from Mr. Santamaria and
the Groups. Whether or not
the Groups were born of
Catholic Action I neither know
nor care. Rank - and - file
unionists found in them a
means of breaking the Red
stranglehold and restoring
majority-rule in union affairs,
and hoped by their agency
ultimately to put into
Parliament a few men who
had not been comatose since
1917.
When Evatt raised the sec-
tarian ghost a year or two ago,
however, Protestants who
should have had more sense
bolted like a lot of sheep from
a frilled-lizard. What sort of
mass-hypnotist is this Evatt
anyway?
Only about one-third of Aus-
tralian electors are R.C., so
obviously the Groups cannot
hope to control the unions nor
can the Santamarists expect to
get any part of their pro-
gramme on the Statute-book
without Protestant co-opera-
tion ; and, just as obviously,
if Protestants give that co-
operation, they will be in a
position at any time to steal
the show. I can assure my
fellow-Protestants that “The
Movement” will welcome any
approach made in good faith
by non-Catholics, and cheer-
fully risk losing control of the
political arm if that is the price
of victory in the main issue.
As to the Santamarists, I
believe much of their sociaL
concept to be as impractical
as the Socialism of our grand-
fathers, and for the same
reason —human beings are not
yet sufficiently civilised to make
a success of it. However, some
of their ideas attract me
strongly, as they would many
other non-Catholics who
troubled to examine and con-
sider them. They seem to hold
the germ of a new social plan—•
to build a society of “little
capitalists,” owning their own
homes, acquiring an increasing
share of proprietorship in
industry and progressively
qualifying to take a greater part
in management.
I would like to see a few
Catholics (half-a-dozen would
do) who really understand
the political aims of “The
Movement” get together with
a like number of open-minded
Protestants and hammer out a
new platform for Labor ; and
then work together to get that
platform accepted by the
workers and adopted by the
party. There is nothing to stop
something of the sort being
attempted—though a combina-
tion of prejudice, inertia and
Evatt may make accomplish-
ment difficult.


TIJEELING mellow after a good
dinner she who rules our roost
apologised for some cutting remarks
made the day before. “I don’t mean half
"No doubt about it , this country is full of Wonderful opportunities
for the white-man."
I say when I’m feeling annoyed, so don’t
take any notice of me,” she said. “I
never do,” I replied. “Well, then, you
ought to!” she snapped. You can’t win.
—“Llewtab.”
“R.M.”: As to garlic (B. 13/3/’57),
when mustard-gas was first used we were
mustered and warned that it smelt like
garlic. In a Scottish accent I asked
“What does garlic smell like?” A Crow-
eater in the rear rank promptly answered:
“Haggis.”
<£> -igt
“Bulltosser”: The general-manager of
a large mining-company, accompanied by
one of his engineers and a car-driver,
lunched at a small railside-village during
an inspection-tour. The proprietor
donned a clean tea-towel and waited.
When the meat-course was disposed of,
he very politely asked the general-
manager if he would like a little more.\
This being declined, he asked the
engineer: “You want a return?” This
was also declined, so the pubkeeper
waiter turned a cold eye on the car-
driver: “You have another go, mate?”
It was at this hostelry that a weary
traveller mildly protested at the warmth of
the beer. Mine Host reached under the
counter and banged down a saucer:.
“Here, pour it in this and blow it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“5 G.R.”: During the fighting after
Lone Pine a dapper Brigadier-General
emerged from one of the tunnels. He
looked too young for the two rows of
war ribbons he wore, one being the V.C.
Moreover, he had a dark skin and a
hooked nose. I said to him: “I’d step
back a bit, sir, if I were you.” “You mind
your own bloody business.” He spoke
in clipped English. Then I knew he
wasn’t a Turkish spy. But the front-line
men, trigger-happy under intense strain,
rushed to bayonet him. Even then he
retained his calm. Sir Neville Smyth,
V.C., later commanded an Australian
division in France.
♦> ♦>
“Carlyle”: Writing an article on
woollen blankets, I turned over in my
mind three different combinations and
decided on “lambswool.” Shortly after-
wards I bought a pair of blankets made
by a leading woollen-mill; their three
labels each bore a different version:
“lambs’ wool,” “lambs wool” and
“lambswool.”
“Elless”: Regarding Essendon’s
(“V.F.L. glamor club”) consumption of
soft-drinks (B. 10/4/’57), as a small
boy about 60 years ago my hero
daily passed our home in Church-street,
Middle Brighton. He was Thurgood,
probably in his day one of the-best foot-
ballers. He played for Essendon, known
in those days as the “Thoroughbreds,”
and they, in my view, deserved their name.
At East Melbourne cricket-ground, now
gone, you could see football as played
by giants who would have scorned any-
thing but beer, and perhaps that is why
the game was what it was. “The
Bombers” indeed!
♦♦♦ i
“Sunray”: The Australian Trade Com-
missioner in New Zealand, writing in
“Austral News,” mentions a move to
popularise kangaroo-tail soup. Inquiries
for it have come from different parts of
the world. The commissioner concludes:
“Perhaps one day I shall have the pleasure
to announce canned Aboriginal Witchety-
grub Soup.”
*> ❖ *z*
“Hist.”: Only three philatelic societies
can hold their meetings on their own
premises: the Royal Philatelic Society,
London (doyen of them all); the
Collectors’ Club, New York; and the
Royal Philatelic Society of Victoria,
which has bought and remodelled No. 6,
Avoca-street, St. Kilda. The three-story
building has the old-world charm of 19th-
century wrought-iron railings to its
verandas and steps, but there is nothing
old-world about the new meeting-room'
on the ground-floor; the library, com-
mittee-rooms, and kitchen, on the
second ; and the offices at the top. Of the
cost of about £ll,OOO some £6OOO has
been found by Victorian philatelists and
inter-State friends, while overseas collec-
tors have given more than £lOOO out of
pure goodwill, seeing that few of them
are likely to enjoy the new club’s com-
forts and conveniences.
❖ ❖ »!«
“0.W.W.”: A bloke I know puts on
his wife’s specs, soon as he gets into bed
—they help him to close his eyes. When
he dozes-off the missus carefully removes
them.
“Dicky”: The Italians aren’t often
guilty of incongruity, but I couldn’t help
feeling that the neon halo over St. Peter’s
head in the square at Sorrento didn’t quite
suit him.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Miss M.”: As a remedy to our town’s
slow, indirect rail-link, which has turned
our businessmen to road-transport, and
thus caused bigger railway-deficits,
higher freights, cuts in train-services and
still more road-transport, our Chamber
of Commerce arranged an experimental
bulk-consignment of goods by rail. It
got considerable publicity, including a
large photograph in the paper showing
clearly, through the newly-unlocked door
of the van, many cases labelled “This
Side Up”—and in every case, This Side
was not.
STEELWORKS
The world is masculine :
Sweat its seas,
Mills are its continents,
Chimneys trees.
Here a volcano-.furnace roars,
There a metallic monster claws,
And the world is masculine.
The world is masculine :
Sinewed, strong,
Sport is its dialect,
Sex its song.
Beyond the world in the outer space
Are the frailties of a different race,
But the world is masculine.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


JUST ONE BRUSHING WITH
Colgate
Dental
Cream
CM*™
m
CLEANS
YOUR
BREATH
I
WHILE IT
CLEANS
YOUR
TEETH
STOPS TOOTH DECAY BEST!
Scientific tests over a 2-year period show a startling reduction
in tooth decay for those who brushed their teeth with
Colgate’s right after eating! In fact X-rays showed no new
cavities whatever,for almost 2 out of 3 people.
Keeps children's teeth healthy
Scientific tests showed that the Colgate waf
of brushing teeth right after eating stopped
decay for more people than ever before
reported in all dentifrice history. Your
teeth are whiter brighter and you
are assured of round-the-clock protection
against decay-causing enzymes.
Colgate Dental Cream Is Australia’s largest
America’s largest the world’s largest selling dental cream
Get the Family Economy Size and save up to 1/10.
rather crudely painted but are
not unpleasing, except where
a nose, an eye or some other
natural feature makes a
hesitating appearance and pro-
duces a feeling of disquiet in
the observer.
F. S.
Films
“The Fiends”
As Lusby’s drawing on this
page notes, this French film, at
Sydney Savoy, is a murder-
piece designed to horrify and
mystify, and judging by the
shrill, delighted squeals of an
Vera Clouzot, Charles Vanet, Paul Meurisse and Simone
Signoret, in “The Fiends,” at Sydney Savoy.
audience prepared to be
mystified and horrified, it
succeeds admirably.
The main characters are the
owner of a boys’ school ; her
husband, who is the head-
master ; and his mistress, who
is a teacher. The husband
treats both with impartial
cruelty so that they come
together to plot his end,
eventually slipping him a loaded
Scotch and dunking him in a
bathtub with a half-hundred-
weight bronze to hold him
down until the bubbles cease to
rise.
After an appropriate interval
the corpse is transferred to the
school swimming-pool and the
conspirators sit back and wait
for the body to rise and the
world to discover the accident.
It doesn’t rise, however, and
when the pool is drained on
some pretext or another it is
bare and innocent of bodies.
Subsequently, the clothing in
which the husband was
drowned is mysteriously
returned from the dry-
cleaners ; he is registered but
not seen in a city hotel; one
of the schoolchildren claims to
have seen him in the school;
and a shadowy image of his
face appears in the background
of a photograph of the
assembled students.
By this time the two women
are halfway round the . bend
and the audience’s suspicions
should be pleasantly ripening.
The management requests,
however, that the “surprise
ending” be not divulged—you
can have it for the price of a
seat, and that’s not a bad
bargain by any means.
On the whole, the plot is
rather elaborately contrived,
but there is an appropriate
odor of decay about the
atmosphere and the characters
—the adult figures are all
seedy, or, at least, non-U, and
the schoolboys are full brothers
to Ronald Searle’s belles —and
the acting is composed and
complete. Vera Clouzot, as the
wife, is a desperate and terrified
mouse ; Simone Signoret, as the
mistress, is a poised and
dangerous cat; Paul Meurisse,
as the husband, is a superb rat;
and Charles Vanet, as a
detective, is an assuring and
tenacious old bulldog.
<£♦ ❖
“The Long Arm”
There is an ingenious plot
to this well-made Scotland
Yard thriller, at Sydney
Embassy. A series of success-
ful safe-robberies, all executed
by the simple means of a
gloved hand turning a key, has
the Yard baffled until Detective-
Inspector Jack Hawkins, during
his patient clue-sifting, lights
upon the fact that all safes are
of the same make. An
employee of the safe-making
firm who died two years
before arouses his interest, and
thereafter the proceedings slip
into the overdrive until the
final trap is sprung.
There are no shrieking
sirens, no loud-mouthed “grill-
ing,” and only a few seconds of
violence. Made with the
co-operation of the Yard, the
film has the mark of authen-
ticity all over it, and it is shot
through with easy humor to
offset the darker moments.
Hawkins, with his air of easy
authority, and John Stratton,
as his sergeant-assistant, handle
the material in engaging
fashion,
+*♦
Other Sydney Releases
“The Girl Can’t Help It”
(Sydney Mayfair): Jane Mans-
field's bosom is the unstable
foundation on which this tepid
comedy about gangsters and
theatrical agents has been
thrown together; comedian
Tom Ewell's talents are wasted.


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE SYDNEY SHOW
/ r YNCE again the Royal
Easter Show has come to
Sydney, together with a host
of country folk who came down
to exhibit, to buy, to sell, or
merely to watch, and talk to
people they might not have
seen for months.
Once again the city people
have had their taste of the
country, an annual event which
is possibly the closest many of
them get to country life.
The Royal Agricultural
Society and the showgrounds
were ready for them, with more
than £1 million worth of live-
stock, not to mention another
£3 million or so in industrial
exhibits.
Practically side by side, the
thronging crowds could see
blood-lines that had taken
generations to mould, and tele-
vision-sets that will probably
mould coming generations of
humans.
As usual, fit was quite a
spectacle—a tremendous dis-
play of the products of primary
and secondary industry, in a
As rabbit hair for
making men’s hats is
in short supply
American headgear
manufacturers are
pushing the sale of
all-wool caps. Here is
still another reason
for the constantly-
growing demand for
wool by Industry —
and another reason
why lamb care is so
important. When
marking and tailing,
Elastrator Rubber
Rings should be used
to reduce the risks of
set-back, fly-strike and
germ infection.
setting that costs the Royal
Agricultural Society more than
£150,000 to stage.
As usual, it was a mixture of
the discriminating people try-
ing to see their particular
interests at the show, and the
sensation-seekers craning to
see the biggest bulls, the falls
in the arena, and the most
extravagant sideshows.
At time of writing there
“Can you swim?”
weren’t as many visitors this
year, and attendances gener-
ally were below' the figures of
last year.
A bus-strike, sundry trans-
port difficulties, higher fares, or
maybe just a common-or-
garden shortage of money
could be blamed, but there
was certainly plenty to give
the usual massed crowds that
characterise the Sydney Royal.
To the average visitor it
might appear the same show,
but, if you looked closely, you
could see evidence of a good
deal of work that had been put
in by the R.A.S. over the last
year to make things more con-
venient and congenial for both
exhibitors and visitors.
There seemed to be better
facilities for the family
picnickers on the lawns, and
things were certainly better in
some of the pavilions for live-
stock, although many of these
are overcrowded from sheer
pressure of exhibits.
One innovation of appeal to
livestock-owners this year was
a 24-hour veterinary-service—
something really worth while if
a valuable beast goes off its
oats when it’s far from home.
Arena events were even more
varied this year, and crowds
flocked to the stands to watch
the continuous display, and to
rest tired feet.
Innovations in the pro-
gramme were a three-day
equestrian event, based on a
similar event held during the
1956 Olympic Equestrian
Games at Stockholm, and a
visit by an American polo-
team.
Woodchopping has always
attracted large crowds, so the
programme was enlarged even
further, and drew record
entries.
To show that the show is
truly representative of domes-
ticated livestock, there was
even a section for tropical fish,
for the first time, complete with
electrically-heated tanks for
some of the more sensitive fish.
Television took an active
part in the show for the first
time this year. All around the
showgrounds you kept running
up against earnest young men
wielding portable TV-cameras,
filming highlights of the show
for the viewers at home.
At the cattle-judging on the
opening-day, a special, large,
aerial-platform surmounted by
technicians and an enormous
TV-camera, at times attracted
almost as much attention as
the cattle being judged, as top-
flight cattle and personalities
were led before its lens to take
the show to people who never
went to the showgrounds.
District Exhibits
The Agricultural Hall, home
of the Commonwealth District
Exhibits, drew its customary
crowd of visitors to see a dis-
play far better than that of
last year. During the show
last year, the exhibits, of neces-
sity, reflected the wet weather
and floods over much of the
State. This year, with no such
handicaps, quality really made
a comeback.
This is an exhibition of
primary produce probably un-
paralleled in the world
a cross-section of agricultural
produce from the most produc-
tive areas of New South
Wales; not to mention the
Moreton and Downs Exhibit
from Queensland.
The enormous variety of
produce, arranged painstak-
ingly by the active workers
from the various districts,
includes products the Sydney-
sider seldom sees on the
shelves of shops; and if he
does see them, they are not in
the same street as regards
quality.
It’s a complicated task for
the judges. They have to judge
the quality of the various lines
of produce, and allot points
for each. Credit is also given
for the layout and general
attractiveness of the whole
display.
Judging began earlier this
year—a good move, because in
past years visitors have too
often had to peer through the
doors during the first weekend
of the show, while the judges
were still at work.
- However, judging finished
much earlier, and the prize
went to the Western District
exhibit.
lhis featured a top-piece of
panels of wool, above a mag-
nificent display of bacon and
dairy-produce as a centrepiece.
„ Second place went to the
Southern District, which also
won the special award for
effective arrangement and
general appearance.
This was -a well-deserved
award, because the top-piece of
the display was an ingeniously
contrived scene of the Snowy
Mountains, highlighting the
“Water Into Gold” irrigation
theme of the whole exhibit.
Fleecy clouds of wool topped
a mountain scene based on an
actual photograph, and water
cascaded down the mountains
to turn a water-wheel. Panels
of produce were in the shape
of large drops of water radiat-
ing out from the water-wheel.
After all, as the Snowy


v out
WOOL
14
mu
Am*/..
m
«Vw\
***
P>
P>
*»
&
■&:
\
MHBN IT'S Off fa
JDatgetys
they're so dependable!
Scheme is going to mean real
development in irrigation in
this district, this was a well-
chosen theme, and done very
well.
Main interest of the show
for many country people was,
of course, the livestock judging.
Entries were not only slightly
greater this year, but the over-
all quality reflected the better
seasonal conditions.
Beef-cattle
Beef-cattle judging was the
highlight of the opening day,
and continued for several days.
One of the features this year
was the quality of the young
stock. Quite a few of the
junior-champions went on to
become champions of their
breeds.
Shorthorns led off the judg-
ing, and, although entries were
slightly lower than last year,
they put on probably the best
display seen at Sydney
certainly the best for a number
of years.
Quality persisted right
through the classes, and the
judge, R. S. Wilson, of Calliope
station, Queensland, was very
pleased with them.
The junior-champion bull, a
beautiful red calf, was awarded
the bull-championship for the
breed. This was Dauntless
Prince Bonaparte, from the
Dauntless stud of Lithgow and
Ross, Lilydale, Victoria, with
the reserve-championship going
to an older imported bull, Mid-
hills Liberator, shown by Sir
Rupert Clarke, another Vic-
torian. from Bolinda Vale,
Clarkefield.
. Another youngster. Green-
wich Secret Harmony, bred
and shown by Kyalla Pty., Ltd.,
Greenwich Park, Towrang
(N.S.W.), won both junior and
senior championships in the
female classes.
Reserve-champion female-
award went to the Wongala
stud of J. Kemelfield, Wood-
end (Vic.), for Wongala
Princess Marjoram 11.
Poll Shorthorns, judged on
the Saturday, really impressed
the visiting American judge,
H. W. Thieman, a leading
breeder from Missouri, who
gave the bull-chamoionship to
M-illy Milly Headline, from
the Milly Milly stud of H. and
H. MacFarlane, Young
(N.S.W.).
This bull, Thieman said, was
a wonderful specimen of the
breed, of international
standard.
Junior bull-championship
went to W. Leonard and Sons,
of Welltown, Goondiwindi (Q.),
for Welltown Masterpiece
third.
The female-champion, Peel
Lydia, was shown by Merry-
ville Pty., Ltd., Yass (N.S.W.),
and junior female-champion-
ship went to Greenwich Averne
Isabel, from Kyalla Pty., Ltd.,
Towrang (N.S.W.).
As usual Herefords made up
the biggest entry, and there
were more entries this time
than last year. The large
classes set a real task for the
judge, S. B. Reynolds, of
Moorlands, Rosalie Plains (Q.),
who went through them very
capably and with an entire
absence of fuss, giving spec-
tators sound reasons for his
judgments.
Two young Hereford bulls
did very well. The junior-
champion, Ohio Ampol, bred
and shown by J. McKoy, of
Ohio, Holbrook (N.S.W.), a
smooth and well-fleshed
youngster, went on to win the
breed-championship. He was
closely followed for both the
junior and senior reserve-
championships by another
young-’un, a Victorian bull
bred and exhibited by K. P.
and J. A. Palmer, of Mortlake.
Hereford cows and heifers
made an outstanding display,
with the senior championship
going to Windsor Minerva
98th, a heifer bred and shown
by Town and Country Lands
Pty., Ltd., of Myall Creek,
Delungra (N.S.W.).
Reserve-championship was
won by Turee Station’s Turee
First Day 18th, from Coolah,
N.S.W., which was the junior-
champion.
Aberdeen Angus cattle put
on a much stronger display
than usual, for both quality
and quantity.
The judge, Michael White,
of Belltrees, Scone (N.S.W.),
gave the bull-championship
and the sash for the best
exhibit to Wallah Flovern,
shown by the Wallah Pastoral
Company, Narrabri (N.S.W.).
The judge’s decision was
endorsed, so to speak, in the
later sales, when White and
Bell, of Glenavon Stud, Guyra
(N.S.W.), paid 2500gn5., a
record price, for this bull.
Poll Hereford entries showed
a marked increase this year,
mainly in the bull classes. The
judge, E. W. G. McCamley, of
Eulogie Park, Dululu (Q.), said
that quality and evenness of
fleshing were of a high
standard
He awarded the bull-
championship to the winner of
the under-21-months class,
Brewarrana Major 3rd, from
W. J. Lenehan’s Brewarrana
stud, Narrandera (N.S.W.).
Reserve-championship went to
the junior-champion, Deep-
fields Lifeguard, from K. G.
Luke’s Deepfields stud at
Romsey (Vic.).
Females were not as well
represented as far as numbers
went, but showed outstanding
quality, particularly amongst
the youngsters, two of whom
fought it out from the under-
-12-months class for top honors.
The winner, BreWarrana
Bluebell, shown by W. J.
Lenehan, narrowly won both
junior and senior champion-
ships from Milton Virginia
Lass, shown by A. Hordern, of
Bowral (N.S.W.).
The Devon section had only
one entry, bred and shown by
Havilah Pty., Ltd., Mudgee
(N.S.W.), and the only Santa
Gertrudis entries came from
King Ranch (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
of Warwick (Q.).
Dairy-cattle
Milking breeds made a good
showing this year, particularly
the Australian Illawarra Short-
horns, judged by S. Philips, of
Kingaroy (Q.).
The champion cow came
from a big line-up of the aged
group in milk ; this was Park-
view Pansy 15th, from the
Parkview stud of H. Dudgeon
and Sons, Albion Park
(N.S.W.), with a younger cow,
Tabbagong Ruth 90th, second.
It was a second champion-
ship win for the top bull Afton
Design, from the Afton stud of
W. Waddell and Sons, lnverell
(N.S.W.).
In the Jersey section, judged
by F. Trevaskis, of Ton gala
(Vic.), the magnificent bull
Oxford Lincoln, shown by
veteran breeder T. Grey, of
Albion Park (N.S.W.), caused
a sensation by taking the cham-
pionship for the sixth time in
succession.
Champion Jersey cow was
Austral Park Fortune, from the
Austral Park stud of the estate
of E. . Chegwidden, Berry
(N.S.W.), which carried a par-
ticularly good udder.
Guernseys showed up well
this year, and according to the
Victorian judge, J. Dawson,
of Rochester, the display would


have rivalled the quality
normally shown in Melbourne.
Champion cow was Spurfield
Lady Wanda, shown by R. R.
Moore and Son, Scone
(N.S.W.), and champion bull
was Friquet de Haut, an im-
ported bull shown by the
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture.
Scottish breeder W. Lohoar,
who is now becoming quite
well known in Australia,
judged the Ayrshires, giving
the cow - championship to
Woodside Park After Thought,
shown by F. A. Mclntosh, of
Berry (N.S.W.), whose stud
won most of the awards.
Champion, bull was Brough-
ton Farm Silver Minx, shown
by A. E. Garratty, of Nowra
(N.S.W.).
Friesians were judged by
New Zealander J. W. Rainey,
who commented that they
would compare favorably with
the breed in New Zealand,
although quality tended to fall
off in younger classes.
He gave the cow-champion-
ship to Navua Piebe Roberta,
shown by C. K. and J. C. Hill,
of Grose Wold (N.S.W.), and
the bull-championship to the
N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture for the Canadian bull,
Sniders Fond Hope King.
Cattle Sales
In the beef-cattle sales,
Aberdeen Angus proved the
surprise-packet. The 1850gris.
record for this breed at
Sydney was well and truly
shattered when the champion
bull, Wallah Flovern, from the
Wallah Pastoral Company’s
stud at Narrabri (N.S.W), was
knocked-down by Common-
wealth Wool to White and Bell,
of Glenavon, Guyra (N.S.W.),
for 2500gns.
Other Aberdeen Angus met
what was probably the keenest
competition" ever, and the
Wambanumba team of F. H.
Tout and Co., of Young
(N.S.W.), sold to 1500gns. and
averaged 950gns.
The quality showing of Poll
Shorthorns was vindicated in
the sale-ring, with a good
demand for top-quality bulls,
and widespread competition
from all States.
Top price was 2200gns.
for High Bank Matchless
Duke, from the Highbank
stud of R. Ingle Browne,
Young (N.S.W.), which was
bought by K. G. McKinnon, of
Dandaloo s t u d, Trangie
(N.S.W.). This was an im-
ported bull, with an American
sire and dam.
Shorthorn bulls also met a
keen demand, particularly for
the Coonong and Weenya
bulls. Highest price paid was
2000gns. for the champion,
Dauntless Prince Bonaparte,
from the Dauntless stud of
Lithgow and Ross, Lilydale
(Vic.).
Poll Herefords sold well, to
widespread competition, with
the top price of 1600gns.
paid for the champion, Bre-
warrana Major 3rd, by A. S.
Nivison, Walcha (N.S.W.).
Other bulls were sold for
1500gns., and females also met
a good demand at increased
prices.
Hereford bulls are being sold
at time of writing; Hereford
cows the next day.
Dairy-cattle sales were
slower at first, but picked-up
later, and Guernseys, Friesians,
and Ayrshires generally
brought prices as good as last
year’s.
Grass-seed Losses
“Billjim”: The main factor
in preventing losses caused by
grass-seed infection is careful
planning.
Some paddocks which are
free of grass-seed should be
kept in reserve, and sheep
should be moved into these
when grass-seed is likely to be
troublesome. Late-sown oat-
crops make excellent pasture
for weaners, and should last
through the danger-period,
until early stubbles are avail-
able. Re-growth on paddocks
cut for silage or hay is also
suitable for weaners.
Another wrinkle is to top
seeding paddocks with a mower
before grazing.
When planning the season’s
programme, it will pay to give
careful thought to reducing
barley-grass by sowing-down
more paddocks with barrel-
medic and Wimmera-rye.
Regular topdressing of
established pastures with super-
phosphate will also help to
control seed-growth.
Field Day at Katherine
“Retired Bagman”: Agricul-
tural investigation here in the
Territory has come a long
way since the Gilruth regime,
with its £lO,OOO pumpkin and
sft.-high horsecollars. The
C.5.1.R.0. Land Research and
Regional Survey Section re-
cently combined with the Agri-
cultural Branch of N.T.
Administration in a field-day
which would have been a credit
to bigger and longer-estab-
lished research- and experi-
mental-stations.
Farming in the Territory
has, to date, been restricted
mainly to the levee-soils along
the Katherine and Daly Rivers.
Under-capitalisation, hjgh pro-
duction-costs, disorderly and
insecure markets, have reduced
the industry almost to vanish-
ing-point. There are now more
experts in the Territory than
actual commercial farmers, and
this anomaly becomes more
pronounced every year.
The experts have done a
mighty job. They have shown
that on a type of soil, almost
useless as natural pasture,
peanuts, sorghum, and various
introduced pastures, notably
Townsville - lucerne and
buffel-grass, can be grown
successfully under certain con-
ditions of land-preparation and
at tried levels of fertiliser.
And there are some hundreds
of thousands of acres of this
type of soil available.
Now seems to be the right
time for the research-worker to
hand over to the statistician
and the economist. We must
learn, firstly, whether the exist-
ing agriculture along the river-
banks is worth reviving;
secondly, whether the develop-
ment of the dryland areas is
economically feasible, and, if
so, by whom.
There is a trend, particu-
larly among those in high
places, to dismiss the individual
farmer as a peasant who has
no place in modern agricul-
tural economy.
The inclination is toward
large-scale development, either
on the lines of Peak Downs, or
by corporations such as that
handling the still - unproven
Territory Rice project. The
humanistic interpretation of
farming as a way of life
doesn’t come into anyone’s
calculations.
But unless a firm policy is
laid down soon for the conduct
of farming in the North, the
money already spent will be a
dead loss, and any future in-
vestigations just a waste of
public funds.
Anhydrous Ammonia
“Boone”: Anhydrous am-
monia for crops—still in the
experimental stage in Australia
—has come into common use
on many U.S.A. farms, where
crop-yields have been increased
at no extra cost over other ways
of applying nitrogen. Yield-
increases have been about 11
bushels of maize to the acre.
University of Missouri
research-workers have found
that clay soils retain the
ammonia much better than
sandy soils. Loss of ammonia
from air-dry sandy soils, after
the ammonia had been in-
jected 6in. deep, was 44 times
as great as from lime-clay soil
under the same conditions.
Losses of ammonia, were
considerably less when the
application was reduced from
40in. to 16in. spacing, even
though the amount injected per
acre was the same both times.
It has been shown that
movement of ammonia from
where it is injected is relatively
small —mainly upwards. Many
sandy soils lack the capacity to
absorb large Quantities of
ammonia unless spacings are
closer than normal.
Missouri research - workers
think spacings of lOin.to 12in.
would result in more efficient
retention of ammonia in the
soil, and also increase the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(11/4/’57)
Moderate rain, below normal, over most of Queensland
during May, although good falls may 'occur in the south-
west and on the southern border and part of the Darling
Downs. Heavier rains likely during June and July.
General rains expected in N.S.W. during May, heaviest
on the coast; severe flooding is likely on the north coast.
General rains should continue during June, although these
rains may be light to moderate on the central coast.
Victoria should get general rains above average during
May, although rainfall should he moderate during June and
July. Heavy rains and consequent flooding should occur
during August and September.
Excellent rains are indicated in South Australia during
May, with good follow-on rains in the agricultural areas.
These rains are not substantiated on the Main cycle, which
indicates no worth-while rains until July.
Fairly heavy general rains should be received in W.A.
during May, with the heaviest falls on the south coast. Good
rains in the De Grey, Gascoyne and goldfields during June,
with moderate general rains in the south-west.
LENNOX WALKER.


lamps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l± PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT ALEXANDER RD.. ESSE N DON, VICTORIA
efficiency of its use by farm-
crops.
Anhydrous ammonia saves
time and labor because there
are no bags to handle as with
sulphate-of-ammonia and other
nitrogenous fertilisers, and,
being chemically bonded to the
soil-particles, it is not washed-
out of the soil as easily as the
fertilisers.
Seedlings can use ammonia,
but the nitrite in it must be
changed into nitrate by bacteria
before older plants can use it.
This happens in about six
weeks v during normal summer-
temperatures. This gradual
release of nitrogen for the
crop is a definite advantage. ■
Another benefit is that, as
there is little bacterial activity
during the cold weather, the
ammonia stays chemically
hitched to the soil until released
for the growing crop in the
spring.
Wheat Segregation
“Muresk”: Whether Aus-
tralia should segregate her
wheat-crop into high-protein
and low-protein classes con-
tinues to be a source of keen
discussion in the industry. Dr.
G. L. Sutton, of Western Aus-
tralia, one of the chief
advocates of segregation,
claims that Australia is growing
enough strong-wheat to con-
solidate present world-markets
and to meet a growing demand
from U.K., Europe, Japan,
New Zealand and South-east
Asia.
Dr. Sutton believes that
segregation is practicable ; it is
operating to a limited extent
already in N.S.W. and Western
Australia; and grain which
does not meet f.-a.-q. standards
is handled separately in Vic-
toria.
On the other hand, the Aus-
tralian Wheatgrowers’ Federa-
tion takes the view that segrega-
tion would disorganise orderly
marketing, and opposes
segregation on this score. At
the same time, the A.W.F.
favors improving the overall
f.-a.-q. sample by growing only
the-better-quality wheats, where
possible.
Pigeon-pea
“Myall”: The par. by
“W.C.Q.” on pigeon - pea
(B. 13-/3/’57) didn’t include the
shrub’s botanical name
Cajanus indicus.
Any grower thinking of
making a trial sowing of this
valuable plant should make it
clear to his seed-merchant that
he wants the shrub, not the
vine, pigeon-pea (P /' 5u m
sativum ); otherwise he’s likely
to get the vine. Cajanus indicus
is rarely stocked by seedsmen,
while the other is in good
demand.
Although Cajanusf has been
grown in various districts in
Queensland for at least 50
years, mainly for the seeds,
.which make an excellent sub-
stitute for green-peas for the
table, only recently has it
received any attention as a
fodder-plant.
A native of the East Indies,
it is now cultivated in most
temperate climates. A selec-
tion Hawaii was brought
here in 1935, and trials at Fitz-
royvale experimental station,
in central Queensland, gave
very promising results. There,
it was useful as a browse-plant
for animals during the dry
winter period.
The flowers are red and
yellow, borne in clusters, and
are followed by reddish pods
about three or four inches
long, containing five or six
seeds. The dried peas may be
used in the same manner as
Lifna-beans, and are very
palatable. Ground into meal,
they make an excellent stock-
feed, very rich in protein.
Cajanus seeds are grey,
mottled, with reddish spots,
while the Pisum are brown,
with splashes of yellow.
The commercial pigeon-pea,
from which split-peas used in
soup-making are obtained, is
a vine which is extensively
grown as a fodder-plant, sown
either alone, or with some
cereal crop. As it’s very rich
in protein, it makes a balanced
ration when used in the latter
manner. It >is known by
several names, grey field-pea,
pigeon-pea, partridge-pea, and
maple-pea.
Grass in Rows
“Bambra”: Will grasses ever
be cultivated here in rows, like
vegetables? The advantages
include the possibility of
inter-row cultivation, to con-
trol weeds and aerate the soil,
and the production of bigger
plants.
This way of growing grasses
is used already in parts of
U.K., where cattle can nuzzle
into the snow, find a row of
grass and push their way along
until they have got their fill.
In general, the more tussocky
grasses such as phalaris and
cocksfoot —perhaps paspalum
—are the best for growing
in rows.
In Australia, lucerne has
been grown in 14in.- and 21 in.-
rows, instead of the conven-
tional 7in.-spacing, in parts of
the drier country. The wider
spacings reduce the com-
petition of the heavier seed-
ings, and result in bigger
plants, which, overall, provide
just as much feed as a greater
number of smaller plants. In
addition, of course, the amount
of seed per acre is less when
wider spacings are used.
Occasionally wheat and
lucerne are sown in alternate
rows. In this case the cereal
helps to pay the costs of
establishment without giving
undue competition, and the
stubble protects the young
lucerne-plants during their
critical first summer.
Farm Hints
“Ann”: When liquid-doses
have to be given to fowls it is
much easier and quicker to
administer it with a syringe.
With a spoon, the contents are
usually half-spilt, and the fowl
is almost choked. Using a
syringe tlie complete dose can
be given in a matter of seconds.
“Sandy”: Pigs fed on skim-
milk often get a severe setback
in the winter, when milk is
scarce and pasture at a stand-
still. For the autumn-born
pig, supplementary-feeding is
necessary, especially in cold
climates. A mixture compris-
ing one bag of wheat, 101 b.
meatmeal, 101 b. lucerne-meal
or lucerne-chaff, 31b. ground-
limestone, and lib. of salt, fed
wet or dry at the rate of |lb.
a day for each week of the
weaner’s age, will help a lot.
“Viva”: One way of over-
coming the monotony of feed-
ing wheat to fowls is to fill the
nests with the grain in sufficient
quantities to last a week. The
layers can eat their fill while on
the job. Non-layers can be fed
a rich protein-mash in hoppers
on the floor, thus stimulating
laying. The eggs will sink into
the wheat, thus keeping them
clean with a minimum of
breakages.


It Was, Too
The Best Summer Holiday
By BILL HOWARD
HOW we in Borneo
resented it when Sir
Thomas Blarney, fresh
by air from Melbourne,
told us on a big, formal
divisional parade: “I don’t
understand what you men are
kicking about. This is the best
summer holiday you are ever
likely to have.”
A dozen years later, as we
sit at dull desks or stand at
boring benches, we realise how
right he was.
The news that the Nips had
had it and were negotiating
for peace came to us on the
night of the August full moon
and the night of the first beer-
issue.
Hard to believe that the
brutal and licent’ Aussie
soldiery could get beaut and
blotto on 52 ounces of beer.
We did.
It was not altogether the two
miraculously timed bottles of
beer. We were intoxicated, too,
with relief that the blue was
over and we were in one piece.
Tokyo Rose from Saigon
had been telling us nightly for
a month, “Just you boys at
Balikpapan wait until the
August full moon. We’re
sending over a hundred
bombers that night. Especially
you boys at Petersham junc-
tion with your fifty-eight tanks
... we are going to do you
over properly.”
The exact locale. The exact
number of tanks. When a
dame shrills at you for a month
you sort of get to believe what
she says. We spent that month
digging the most elaborate
“slittys” in the history of the
S.W.P.A.
C|o now this was quite a
night . . . Peace. No
hundred bombers and two
bottles of Aussie beer!
In our beery optimism we
imagined an armada of troop-
ships sailing into Balikpapan
Bay next day and whizzing us
back to Australia, discharge
and freedom.
But as the weeks drifted
into months the Seventh Div.
became increasingly restive,
vociferously demanding of the
Brass: “Get us out of here! ”
So Sir Thomas flew up.
Then, several weeks later,
Lord Louis Mountbatten came
over from his South-east Asian
Command.
The local Brass organised
another big Div. do. But in
typical Mountbatten manner
he broke-up the parade with,
“Gather- round me. I want to
put you in the picture, boys.
It’s my bloody fault yoy men
are still sweating it out up
here, but life’s very complex
for me. Do you know, for
instance, that when the Big
Stink was on my S.E.A.C. got
five-hundred signals a day?
Now there is peace and we get
one-thousand a day.
“But I assure you boys that
as soon as I can scrounge some
ships I’ll have you home in
Aussie. Meanwhile, make the
best of it here.”
So the practical Aussie set
out to make the best of it.
All of us had a Nip each as
valet to sing us Jap love-songs
as we lay on our bunks getting
our boots cleaned.
When we first took over the
Nip prisoners there were more
guards, bayonets and Owens
than prisoners. A month later
a solitary Aussie soldier would
doze under a tree.
Later the Nips had to be
issued with a rifle to every 10'
men to protect themselves from
“Yes, I packed your bathing-costume in me hip-pocket !”
the Dyaks, who were sneaking
down and doing them over.
\TS7TTH no regimental baloney
’’ and few guard-duties,
and with a Nip a man to do
camp chores, we spent those
long months at all kinds of
sport.
There was a mile-long stretch
of beach for swimming,
cricket, softball, basketball.
Major Sam Hordern even
found an unbombed concrete
tennis-court and, Lord knows
how, came by some racquets
and tennis-balls.
Everyone was lean and fit.
Untouched paybooks were
beaut and fat. Everyone had a
little racket of some sort to
make a few guilders.
It was not altogether dough
for dough’s sake. Rackets gave
a little zest to life.
Mechanical types made and
sold model-aeroplanes and
cigarette-lighters; commercial
types organised the housie-
games which were really Big
Business; gaming types ran
the swy-schools and hazards-
schools.
Then there were the debased
types who politely blackmailed
poor padres. By then we were
on the staff of the staging-camp.
Every officer before embarking
homewards was issued with a
couple of bottles of spirits for
the track.
Ostentatiously flourishing a
mob of embarkation-papers,
one of these types would
approach the padre as he
rolled his swag, and say: “I’m
having a birthday tomorrow,
sir, would it be possible to sell
me one of your bottles?” —
with a wave of the embarka-
tion-papers sort of hinting, “If
you don’t come across I’ll lose
’em.”
Why pick on padres?
Being men of God they could
not come the black, and the
bottle of Scotch would be
about 6s.
TX7E did many things to anni-
’ * hilate those long months.
Even went in for culture. It
was pleasant to sit in our
jeeps and listen to pianist


Peter Cooper play Chopin, en-
joying the bland breezes coming
in off the Macassar Straits.
We organised a discussion-
group with weekly talks. We
got at least one full house.
That was the night Trooper
Bourke, aged 23, live years
A.1.F., mostly overseas, gave a
long, academic (yes, truly
academic) discourse on Sex in
Relation to Life. Even the
poker-players came.
We even had a secret Com-
munist party. They held secret
meetings on the beach with
Leftist Indonesians, and splat-
tered the enormous oil-tanks
with painted slogans, “Up
Indonesia” or “Down With the
Dutch.”
With Bert Castelleri (now
Sydney “Telegraph”) we ran a
venomous little squadron news-
paper. With the blue over, and
little fear of military reprisals,
we certainly got square on the
“skulls” (officers).
If we got extremely bored
we’d hop in a jeep and go to
the Cross to “eye-off” the
sheilas.
King’s Cross was a four-
road junction, with little
cotfee-shops and strolling
women. The Cross was later,
rather symbolically, placed out
of bounds.
WHEN the ' Seventh Div.
first arrived, the Indo-
nesians, resentful after the
enormous softening-up by
planes and warships, merely
treated us as just another
change of jailers.
As we would whizz past in
our jeeps they would make a
strange, convulsive body move-
ment —sort of bowing, kneeling
and salaaming all at the same
time. Determined to do the
right thing to please the new
conquerors. But after a
month of the Aussie breezy,
democratic invasion they’d
give the traditional hitch-
hikers sign and yell, “We go
Seffingang, Dig”
We won’t forget the miles-
long, hours-long, procession of
Indonesians returning from the
hills to their ruined, bombed-
out coastal villages. It was the
epitome of all the lousiness ot
war —aged couples helping
each other along, children
laggard, lost and starving. As
they would totter past, hun-
dreds of Aussie soldiers lining
the road would hand out
tucker and sweets to the kids.
The Indonesians would fumble
in their “kicks” for a few
guilders in payment, but the
Aussie would wave ’em on:
“We don’t want your bloody
dough, mate.”
Many a tolerant Q.M. failed
to notice the depredations on
his ration-store on that day.
The Australians cobbered-up
quickly with the charming
Indonesian children —another
thing we won’t forget was see-
ing dozens of green - clad
soldiers making their way to
the movies through the jeep-
swirling, dusty dusk hand-in-
hand with those kids.
DESPITE this idyllic exis-
tence of Scotch for six-
bob, a valet a man, tons of sun
and leisure, and not being shot
at, we weren’t happy.
Women .. . white! Missed
’em!
But now, amid all the corn-
plexities of civil life (i.e.,
women, white), and as we make
our way to that dull desk or
boring bench, we realise how
right Sir Thomas was: “The
best summer holiday you are
ever likely to have.” -
SPEAKING OF POETRY
Over the sleeping water, when night falls,
the moonlight throws a gold and flickering spear.
Dark, dark the reaches of the moving sea
and memory stirring with the rising tide,
leased in a flood of bubbles, and the night.
I think about the past and try to change
into a metaphor the silent heart:
a frail red parrot perched within its cage
repeating what it hears and cackling
all that tongue speaks and the ear hears, and frame
the singing form that forms the silent heart.
But memory brings in sight only the sea,
and the great forest where birds never sang,
where every stone conceals a face, and eyes
are in the swaying kelp, and one could weep
for all those lost and stoned and silent faces.
Such visions rise in thought as out of dreams,
rise from the water, hung in dripping weeds.
In a cold cave of the sea, what creatures press
their claims in a tongue of curious gnarled words
for a song hung in the fading dark like frost ?
N.S.W.
ROBERT HUGHES.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 431
Across
I—A1 —A capital chap from Chaldea in need of immediate
attention. (6)
4—A hundred and fifty-one thousand choppers’ culminations.
(8)
B—Creeper8—Creeper Cooper of Hollywood is acetic. (8)
10 —Way of standing the modified ascent. (6)
12— Street taken in hand by Ophelia when crazy. (3)
13 — Neither win nor lose a railway sleeper. (3)
14 — Insect after a figure who pays rent? (6)
17 —Taint contradicted, so sit back. (3) .
18 — Confused mice run with respect
to number. (7)
19 — Some good golfing hit is back.
(3)
20 — 3.14159 by a sunless duck per-
formance at the keyboard. (5, 4)
23 — The old countries and 1 in a
town in N.S.W.’s North Coast
region. (3)
24 Silent May has a day for her. (3)
25 — Wind back an ore of lead. (6)'
27 — Epoch. (3)
28— Saying Kitty’s father is backward.
(3)
30 —Sailor to obtain a bull in the
middle of it. (6)
32 — Sailor reduced thanks in an
N.S.W. town. (8)
33 — Pronoun vein of metal on an
organ. (8)
34 — A game bankrupter of the ferry.
(6)
Down
1 — Many Tasmanians feel quite at
home in this disorderly lover’s
tune. (10)
2 Stimulates Miss Rogers with a
nightcap when Meggs is out of
bed. (7, 2)
3 Noted for singing when the stars
are out in a high wind. (11)
4 Bashful. (3)
5 Article in the empty floor
covering. (3)
6 Nothing up after 10, blit gas is
needed. (5)
7 Threw off an outhouse. (4)
9 —He is in the queer reason for
snivelling. (5)
11 —Disloyalists upset a stage
celebrity. (4)
15 — Republican necking with a liar
who practises black-magic? (11)
16 — Rade isn’t T.R. either, according
to the commerce which deter-
mines the wheatgrower’s
prosperity. (5, 5)
19 —Fruit ran into Edward and
dropped like a lump of lead. (9)
21— Of the mouth or Jolson. (4)
22 You are required to send love to
Margaret by a letter. (5)
26 —Rilson of Wales gets 30 days. (5)
29—Cheek stalk. (4)
31— Finish. (3)
32 — Weight is not up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 430


handed it back, and fell on the
ground coughing and gasping
like Gilly’s black-and-white
bitch with a bone caught in its
throat. Gilly’s father propped
himself against a tree, mas-
saged his singed moustache and
contemplated us with eyes free
of expression and lashes.
Somewhere in the cane, Paw-
paw lay retching. Near the
bridge the two canecutters,
sprawled on the ground, arms
flung out, looked blankly at
the limbs of a wattle-tree over-
head.
“She was a bit hot in there
at times,” Gilly’s father said
at last.
Nick sat up.
“We’ll have to ring up the
mill and see if we can get extra
cutters,” he said.
He took a packet of ciga-
rette-papers from his pocket,
discarded a dozen, perspira-
tion-soaked, and began to
build a cigarette with trembling
hands.
“We’ll have to get someone
to help with the hauling,” he
muttered. “I’ll never handle it
with one lorry.”
So Clara came, riding in her
father’s lorry the following
day, down the headland and
into our lives.
/'MLLY had held a subdued
regard for Clara ever
since one of his long-carrying
snanenai-stones had missed a
perched parrot and damaged
one ot her front teeth in the
schoolyard. There had followed
only a wary friendship
and no blossoming of romance.
And even though we immedi-
ately abandoned the farm at
Clara’s first approach to it,
Gilly’s mother and Saturday-
morning drew us inexorably
together.
“You boys ought to be
ashamed of yourselves,” Gilly’s
mother scolded. “Clara’s
father will be hauling cane all
morning and there’s that dear
little girl riding up and down
to the siding in that rough lorry
with her father. The least you
could do is to take her down
the bridge fishing until her
father is ready to go home.”
Gilly’s eyes rolled, nervously
as a brumby’s.
“Aw, gee, Mum,” he said.
His mother pointed to fish-
ing-rods. “Go,” she said.
Gilly faced Clara across a
canedrill as she sat in the lorry
waiting for her father to winch
a canetruck from the ground.
“Would you,’’ Gilly
muttered, “like to come down
to the bridge and catch a
slimey or a couple of
mudcod?”
Clara’s eyes widened with
interest. “Oh, I’d love to,” she
lilted.
Gilly stared at her incredu-
lously. “You would?” he
asked.
We walked to the bridge and
sat with great dignity and
separation on the edge. Gilly
baited, and flicked his line into
the water, scowling at the
bobbing cork. Clara bit her
lip and eyed him surreptiti-
ously. Gilly stole a sidelong
glance, blushed, and gazed into
the water again.
It was then that love came to
him, on the bridge at the
bottom of the cutting, and the
warmth of it flowed through
him, so that his throat was
tight and his mind was filled
with high ideals of noble
purpose. He turned to Clara
and his eyes mirrored a great
desire to make her some grand
and beautiful gesture. He took
her unwrapped line.
“I’ll put a snakeworm on the
hook for you,” he said . . .
'THE school-dance ruined it.
The school-dance and
Teddy Moore. Gilly looked at
the approaching dance without
favor.
“Imagine a man wasting half
a dinner-hour jumping round
like a crippled curlew, prac-
tising an old-time waltz.”
There came a time when the
old-time waltz took new im-
portance and appeal.
“It’s going to be a supper-
waltz,” Gilly explained to his
father in the shed, “and the
girl you have it with let’s you
take her to supper after.”
His father nodded wisely.
“You’ll be able to waltz with
Clara,” he prophesied.
Gilly looked down very
worriedly at his rebellious feet.
“I’m not too hot at it,” he con-
fessed.
His father dismissed the
lack of proficiency with a wave
of his hand. “There’s nothing
to an old-time waltz,” he ex-
plained. “Nothing at all.”
Gilly’s eyebrows raised.
“Can you waltz. Dad?”
His father stepped back and
regarded him indignantly.
“Waltz!” he shouted. “Waltz,
of course I can waltz! ”
He lapsed into recollection.
“You should have seen your
mother and me years ago. We
could waltz. Do a fair Charles-
ton, and our one-step wasn’t
bad, but waltz—my God, boy,
we could waltz. Won every
competition in the Burdekin ;
we were pretty to watch. Talk
about waltzing ; believe me we
could waltz! Come up to the
kitchen and I’ll show you.”
He could waltz. His style
belonged to the rigidly erect,
eggshell-glued-to-heel, gramo-
phone - record - between-chest-
and - breast, expressionless
school of dancers whose pass-
ing marked the end of an era.
He passed on part of his
knowledge to Gilly in half-an-
hour’s “One - two - three”-
chanted instruction.
“That will do,” he gasped in
reluctant concession to the toll
of passing years on leg-muscles
and lungs. “If you. can’t
impress Clara with a waltz like
that, it’s time you gave the
game away.”
“You’ll be right now,” I
decided as we walked down
the headland. “You can waltz
real good.”
Gilly frowned worriedly.
“There’s still Teddy Moore,”
he muttered. “He wants to
take Clara to supper, too.”
“Well, maybe you could
dong him and make him change
his mind,” I said.
“1 don’t know about that,”
Gilly said.
It was an ambitious sugges-
tion. There was a great deal
of Teddy Moore’s carrot-hair,
freckles, fat limbs and fighting-
reputation.
“Has he asked her yet?” I
wondered.
Gilly shook his head.
“I don’t think so,” he said.
“She’s probably down the river
swimming this arvo. If she is I
could go down and ask her
first.”
SHE was. So was Teddy
Moore. One of his
lieutenants came to us as we
stood on the bank.
“Teddy,” he announced,
“says to tell you if you go near
Clara he’ll barrel you.”
Gilly showed his teeth. We
walked to the edge of the water
and stood with that awkward
social uncertainty common to
creek-swimmers contemplating
a crowded river for the first
lime.
“Aw, why don’t you go back
to your dirty old creek?” one
of Moore’s allies flung at us.
He blocked nostrils with thumb
and index-finger.
“Poo! ” he yelled. “Smell the
mud! ”
His colleagues made chorus:
“What did you have for
breakfast —mudcod ? ”
The audience tittered.
Encouraged, the chorus rose to
greater heights of insult.
“Maybe they had eels,” one
yelled, twisting in pantomime
in the shallow water ; “or may-
be boiled turtle.”
We watched their impersona-
tion as they spread arms and
legs and began a stiff-legged
parade hugging the river-bed
near the bank. Gilly swallowed
and regarded me sadly.
“I suppose we better go,” he
said. He eyed the pantomime
with new wistfulness.
“A man should’ve brought a
ging,” he said.
We turned and began to
walk up the bank. At the top
Gilly turned. Clara stood at
the water’s edge.
“I like mudcod, Gilly,” she
said. “I think they’re the nicest
fish I’ve ever eaten. I wish
you’d come and have a swim.”
Teddy Moore, who had been
watching with the detached
ESCAPE
Now is the satyrs hour, she
said :
I hear a sound in the deep
wood ;
It makes an echo in my head
And stirs a tumult in my
blood.
The wolves of midnight prowl
the glen,
Catching the moon’s fire in
their eyes ;
I will escape from mice and
men
And follow that music where
it flies.
I am out, I am in ;■ gone, gone
and gone
Are roof and wall and will and
must:
The little wisdoms are undone ;
Pan breathes, and all today is
dust.
The wind-blown treetops hide
the moon;
I slip from bole to moss-grown
bole,
Restless and hurrying; that
shrill tune,
The wolves’ sharp howling,
are my goal.
The trees are tiger-striped with
light,
Pools in the darkness gleam
with eyes,
All whispering to me with the
might
Of far-forgotten centuries.
At last! A flare of light and
sound.
Midnight and silence are
undone,
And all my world, and I am
wound
In a spinning splendor, like
the sun.
In that great vortex caught and
burned,
At last, the same yet not the
same,
In a cold ash I am returned
To the narrow house from
which I came.
q’land.
H. M. GREEN.


interest of an underworld tsar
viewing the more sordid pre-
liminaries of his hired muscle-
men, flashed a speculative
glance at Clara.
Gilly swam from the bank
with an unorthodox style, bred
from an uneasy union between
the sketchy recollections of a
matinee-Weissmuller and the
early instructions of his father.
“Clara,” Gilly announced
decisively, “there’s something I
want to ask you.”
“Let’s play water-tiggy,”
Moore decided strategically.
He slapped Gilly’s back with
calculated force.
“You’re in!” he bellowed.
There followed a hasty mass-
evacuation to vantage-points of
“Fire!”
safety. It was entirely unneces-
sary. Honor lay involved in the
tiggy of Teddy. He made for
a tree as high as a trade-union
demand near the water’s edge,
scaling it like a startled goanna
with Gilly in close pursuit.
.. ... . , ~
Gilly tigged him just before
they ran out of tree. They
stood together on a branch
forty feet above the water.
“Show us how you can dive,
Teddy,” a lieutenant
encouraged.
Teddy looked down at the
upturned face of Clara and
prepared to launch himself into
space.
“He’ll kill himself for sure,”
someone said hopefully.
Actually. Teddy dido', He
stood on the branch for a long
time, face slowly whitening,
looking down at the water. In
the water a small circle of
visionaries saw the beginnings
of a dictator’s fall from grace.
“What d’ you know?” a
hatchet - faced spectator
declared. “He’s done his guts
—he’s too scared to dive, for
sure.”
“Squib!” he yelled.
The desirability of wooing
the favor of a possible suc-
cessor came to him.
“Go on, Gilly—show him
how,” he called. “You can do
it for sure.”
Gilly flung a startled glance
at the water, looked at the
shaking Teddy, flinched at con-
tagious fear and looked back at
the water again,
“Don’t, Gilly,” Clara called,
making the choice inevit-
• • *
, , , ~ ,
wasn * a bad dive, and Gilly
-*-'COuldnt have been expected
t 0 know about the snag the
creek all the snags had been
charted, chronicled and con-
sidered, but the river-bottom
was as foreign to us as
Hindustani,
Even Teddy’s lieutenants
helped to carry Gilly from the
water. On his head there rose
a lump as large as a cassowary’s
egg laid in a good season. We
P laced him gently on his back
on *be bank. Clara flung her-
“““
you all right?”
Gilly moaned feebly.
“Oh, Gilly,” Clara moaned
brokenly, “say something to
me!”
Gilly raised himself on his
elbow and slowly opened one
eye.
“Will you have the supper-
waltz with me?” he said . . .
Gilly returned to school a
week later.
“How’s the dancing going?”
he inquired loftily.
“Aw, we learned a few new
ones while you were in
hospital,” I pointed out.
“All I’m interested in is the
waltz. A man’s got to be good
at it. What were the others
like?”
“Silly—just one they called a
‘Pride of Erin,’ and that” ——
“Sounds crook.”
“It was” . . .
YX/E sidled into a hall filled
with young ladies con-
scious of the first hints of lip-
stick and suspicions of rouge,
and self-conscious, incredibly
clean, scrubbed boys, awkward
in high-polished shoes and
seldom-worn ties, flatheaded
with rebellious hair, scalp-
cemented.
Teddy Moore flaunted past
in the glory of first long-
trousers.
“Hmm,” Gilly snorted, “get
the getaround of him, will
you?”
At the end of the hall the
headmaster, miscast in the role
of a jovial master -of -
ceremonies, announced a
Canberra Two-step.
“What’s the strong of that?’*
Gilly inquired.
“We learnt it while you were
away with the sore head,”
I explained. “It isn’t hard ; why
don’t you ask Clara for it?
She’ll show you how.”
“Break it up; I wouldn’t
walk over her feet for quids.
Let Teddy Moore have it. I’ve
got the supper-waltz. That’s it”
Gilly sat tensed as a sprinter
as the night grew older.
“Why don’t you dance?” I
suggested.
“No fear ;a man might sweat
and start to stink. It won’t
be long now.”
“Boys and girls,” the head-
master announced “the next
dance is the one you’ve all been
waiting for, the one before
supper” . . ,
YX/E braked our pushbikes
* ’ down the hill and stopped
by mutual and unspoken con-
sent on the bridge at the
bottom of the cutting.
“Anyway,” I said to Gilly,
“we had more cake down our
end of the table than they had
where they were sitting.”
“I wasn’t hungry,” Gilly
muttered.
“Maybe it could have been
worse,” I pointed out. “Maybe
if you had’ve taken her you
might have spilt a glass of soft-
drink over her dress or some-
thing.”
Gilly brightened slightly.
“Aw, but a man felt such a
fool, having to ask Teddy
Moore to dance with her,” he
protested.
He looked glumly down into
the sadness of moonlight-
flecked water.
“I’m not going to get married
when I grow up,” he said a few
moments later. “I’m going to
live all by myself, just like
O’Shaunnesy, even if I do have
lots of holes in my socks.”
' He reached for a pipe and
banana-leaf in the cache in
the hollow log.
“I’m going to build a little
house,” he said, as he settled
back, “and go fishing for mud-
cods every day and have plenty
of tobacco.”
He sighed. “Real tobacco,
too. And I’m not going to have
anything more to do with
women ; I hate girls.”
He scratched a match on a
girder and blew a plume of
banana-leaf smoke into the
night.
“Aw, but what makes me so
wild,” he said with sudden
savageness, “is, why in the
aitch, after telling us for weeks
it’s going to be a flaming
supper-wu/fz, at the last flam-
ing minute they go and bung
on a bloody Pride of Erin that
a man can’t do?”


enough, kept his head. He is as
thoroughly convincing when he is des-
cribing the appalling conditions of the
miners and farm-laborers as when he
is satirising the rich at their dinner-
parties, and he saw clearly the virtues
as well as the faults of both classes.
Of course Dickens in the exuberance
of his genius utterly transcended the
more controlled effects of his follower,
but it remains- a pleasure to meet
Disraeli’s balancer of mind ; and his
characters, though they do seem to
some extent to have been modelled on
the master’s, have a sufficiently inde-
pendent and vigorous life of their own.
It is a novel,' as Professor Jeff ares
says, “full of movement and
variety” ; a set of brilliant scenes of
high-life and low, everywhere lit by
those “cat’s-eyes ctf wit” ; and, if it
seems strangely remote in its wistful
evocation of the days of the
monasteries as England’s happiest
times, it is as topical as anyone could
wish in its insistence, fin the words of
Lady St. Julians, that “People get into
Parliament to get on.” Disraeli, too.
was a cynic.
D.S.
Gertrude Stein
In Gertrude Stein, Her Life and
Work (Hamilton) Elizabeth Sprigge
has gone to the trouble of seeing places
in France and America where Ger-
trude Stein lived, and of talking to
people who knew her (they make an
impressive page of acknowledgments);
and so she has produced a very clear
picture of America’s most tortuous
author without quite explaining why
this should be done.
Gertrude Stein obviously had some-
thing, one remarked about her some
time ago, though no one knew quite
what it was, or they would have taken
it from her. Critical historians seem
agreed that Hemingway and Sher-
wood Anderson found in her story
“Melanctha” in the book “Three Lives”
a model for the expression of the
average mind of the multitude ; Wells
said of the same book that he would
“watch for your name again very
curiously and eagerly,” though this
does not seem to have produced any
more delight for him ; and her illus-
trious teacher, William James, to
whose theories many of her own are
said to be indebted, is shown by Miss
Sprigge uneasily brushing “Three
Lives” off his hands.
Of Gertrude Stein’s later work,
criticism seems even more shy. Even
Miss Sprigge is found explaining the
pages which consist of an endless repe-
tition of three or four words, and the
chapters that are two unrelated
sentences, as literary jokes or satires on
the poverty of contemporary novelistic
prose. The mystery of Gertrude
Stein’s method is enhanced by an
occasional flash of brilliant paradox,
such as “If a thing can be done, why
do it?”
Perhaps in this paradox may be
found the essence of her point of view:
the personality must express itself in
newer and newer ways ; and the only
valuable thing in any art is that new
expression of personality. That is the
basis of her idea of “Twentieth Cen-
tury” ; that is the idea which, whether
she began it or not, is" at the basis of
most contemporary art and sends it
escaping into newer and more
mysterious fields of method.
But the paradox is as much an
evasion as its result in the working-
out. Though writing could be done,
Gertrude Stein still wrote, and though
painting had been done, Picasso still
painted: the artist of whatever kind
who does what has been done still
informs his work with his personality
and still has the spirit of his age
stamped upon it. The short-cut to the
expression of personality by new
methods calculated to give most per-
sonality with least material and effort
is an evasion which elevates the artist
by the destruction of the product of art,
and its logical conclusion would be a
world of musicians and no music, or of
artists and no paintings.
. Whether or not this was the end of
Gertrude Stein’s endeavors, they
certainly interested people in her per-
sonality, and she satisfied that interest
with her essays in autobiography, “The
Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas,”
“Everybody’s Autobiography” and
“Wars I Have Seen,” which anticipated
and must have very much simplified
Miss Sprigge’s labors. First you get
together and package a product; then
you run a publicity-campaign to sell it
—it is all very Twentieth Century.
Of a well-to-do Jewish family, her
childhood spent in America, Vienna,
and again in California, she was a
brilliant and dilettante student in
psychology. She and her brother were
secured sufficient from the wreck of her
father’s estate to live comfortably but
not extravagantly in Paris ; her acqui-
sitions of Cezannes, Matisses and
Picassos were evidently not because
of her wealth, but because of her
getting-in on the ground-floor. She
lived without scandal (Picasso is said
to have said of the group, “They are
not men, they are not women ; they are
Americans”); and Miss Sprigge follows
her through her agreements and
quarrels with artists, her acquisition of
Miss Toklas as secretary, her pet dogs,
her books, her experiences in two
wars, her visits to America, her meet-
ings with authors (she couldn’t bear
James Joyce) very satisfactorily, in a
biography whose main excellence is
that it makes clear what its subject
stated cloudily for the world’s mystifi-
cation.
SONG
If your swart and lustrous hair
Contained the limits of the world,
Hemisphere and hemisphere
Would lie within my compass here
As my fingers lay and curled
Slowly in your lustrous hair.
If the grumbling earth spun here
In the beauty of your head,
My fingers in your tumbled hair
Could still the motions of despair
And all the rumors of our dread
While the earth was dozing here.
VICTORIA.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE.
Stages of Love
When the jacket .presents John
Osborne’s play, Look Back in Anger
(Faber), as the London “theatrical
bombshell” of 1956, with Kenneth
Tynan’s opinion that it is “a minor
miracle” and “the best young play of
its decade,” and news that “Jimmy
Porter is already a central figure in
contemporary mythology,” it is interest-
ing to look back on the long English
history of the comedy-of-love and find
what new ingredient is here, and in
what special way it represents its
times.
For the great English comedies of
the past have all been conditioned by
their times, and in each of them one
of the facets of the national character
which are latent at all times is brought
out and given prominence. Thus the
main characteristic of Shakspeare’s
heroines is, as someone has pointed
out, their generosity; the way in which,
having made up their minds, they give
themselves without reserve, and with-
out arguing the toss.
By contrast, the proposal scene of
Congreve’s “Way of the World” (1700)
is the bargaining-match in which the
exquisite feeling of Millament for
Mirabel is allowed to appear as no
more than a wayward fringe of petti-
coat-lace escaping from under the
brilliant and sophisticated gown of
formality.
Up to this time, love has been a
battle between equal ages. Sheridan’s
“School for Scandal” (1777) salutes the
all-powerful father, in the image of the
landowner and businessman of the late
eighteenth century and the industrialist
of the mid-Victorian age: Lady Teazle
is less Sir Peter’s wife than his charm-
ing and wayward daughter, to be


corrected and made to confess her
faults.
The daughter-image increases as the
nineteenth century becomes drowsy
with its wealth; one has only to read
some of the reconstructions of mid-
Victorian family-life, where children,
dressed like doffs, wrapped around in
sheets and blankets, are driven like
parcels to be unwrapped at sumptuous
children’s parties, to realise the peculiar
quality of the proposal-scene in
Wilde’s “The Importance of Being
Earnest” (1895). It is Love in the
Nursery, a delightful children’s game.
To this point the great comedies
have presented love between social
equals, but the rise of Socialism pro-
duced in Shaw’s “Pygmalion” (1914)
not so much the story of the King and
the Beggar-maid, which had been done
often enough, nor even so much a love-
story, as the problem whether society
might be so changed that social
differences between young men and
women would vanish.
As a comedy of love, then,
Pygmalion” was a divagation; a sport.
The first really important development
of the century was Coward’s “Private
Lives” (1930), in which the love-story
doesn t begin until after the divorce.
This scandalous and highly repre-
sentative comment might have been
accepted as final upon our age of jitters
ut-T‘ not come out with
The Cocktail Party,” in which the
mam characters, a man and wife,
having been convicted of playing-
around, are then assured that they
shouldn’t be in the business at all—
they are a man and a woman who have
no capacity at all to love. That, from
a developmental point of. view, is final;
Eliot has written the love-comedy to
end all love-comedies.
But the show—everyone feels it—
must go on, and therefore so must
love; and as it cannot go forward it
must go back.
So Mr. Osborne goes back to the
scene of the lovers’ brawl in “Private
Lives,” not merely for a scene, but
for a complete play: the three acts of
“Look Back in Anger” are an almost-
continuous stream of hysterical abuse
in which Jimmy Porter parades his
resentment of his well-born young
wife. When he can’t shake her equally
hysterically - maintained composure
with his subtly-concocted efforts to get
at her, he plays a jazz- trumpet in the
next room.
The wife’s friend Helena comes to
stay, takes issue with young Mr.
Porter in words of cold and deadly
contempt, gradually persuades the wife
that she must leave young Mr. Porter
and then, when Mr. Porter comes home
to find his wife gone, pulls him down
on the couch beside her to what must
be a wonderfully effective and powerful
curtain-fall . . .
It is certainly representative of our
neurotic times; an English compromise
between the English tradition and the
American low-life tragedies, “A Street-
car Named Desire” and “Death of a
Salesman,” that have made the English
feel the necessity for copying. “Best
young play of its decade” is measured
and probably just, but it is more
contemporary than new, and less a
development than a retreat.
R. McC.
THE CIRCLE
A circle is my love and all
my words along that line will tell
the radius my passions fill.
You lie within it. Gently there
you nestle in its humming care
until its humming fills your ear.
Yes, I, who spin around you, make
a universe beyond the lake,
the silent lake which is yo'ur heart ,
Its depth I am, circumference round,
atid moving ripples when your hand
leans out to touch me on the ground.
And yet, and yet, it is, my dear,
your stillness, not my turning here,
that makes the circle true entire.
N.S.W.
ALAN RIDDELL.
"Quadrant"
The second issue of James McAuley’s
“Quadrant,” the quarterly sponsored
by the Australian Committee for Cul-
tural Freedom, has settled into a very
useful and responsible mixture of
politics, general-interest articles and
literature.
Richard Parkes writes on “The Aus-
tralian Waterfront”; Walter James
lightly on a “Wineman’s Holiday” in
Spain, Italy and Portugal; Professor
John Green way on Australian folk-
songs, rightly stressing the importance
of the Irish element, but strangely
unaware of the efforts that have been
made to collect the songs; J. H.
Wootten on “The Orr Dismissal and
the Universities” ; and other writers on
Austria, Hungary and “Jewish
Mysticism.”
The book-reviews, which seemed
rather scattered in the first issue, seem
to be taking shape as a survey of world-
affairs as reflected in current books,
with a sprinkling of commentaries on
general Australian literature. The
selection, however, still seems hap-
hazard and some of the books are
hardly worth doing in a quarterly of
this kind.
Reviewed Briefly
Getaway: John Harris (Hurst and
Blackett). Has the scent of adventure,
though full of improbabilities. An
Italian family with a boy fugitive from
justice take-off from Sydney in a
fishing-boat and try to lose themselves
in the islands of the Pacific. If the
reader can follow their erratic course
with a sufficiently uncritical mind he
will be rewarded with a feeling of
freshness and escape.
* * * *
Gulf Coast Stories: Erskine Caldwell
(Heinemann). An easy, relaxed style,
humor and a sympathetic observation
of the relationships between men and
women make these stories pleasant
reading. By the author of “Tobacco
Road,” they are set along the Gulf of
Mexico and mostly tell of homely
people. There is no great variety in
the themes, however, and sometimes,
as in “Kathy” and “Her Name Was
Amelie,” the same story is told in two
only slightly different ways.
* * * *
The Burden: Mary Westmacott
(Heinemann). This is Agatha Christie
writing a straight novel with a psycho-
logical slant. It is really a romantic
novelette, more competent than the
average, but abrupt in structure.
* * * *
The Deeper Strings: Lael Tucker
(Heinemann). Love among the intel-
lectuals. Lael Tucker went to a music-
festival in the Pyrenees in honor of the
expatriate Spanish cellist Casals and
made it the setting for this story about
high-minded musicians and their
marital worries. All very efficient,
modem and smart, and at the same
time embarrassingly sentimental. A
sample of the style: “She’s a daisy,
Becky is. She’s a ducky, she’s a roar-
ing angry sweetheart of a battlin’
woolly lamb. And Gee-John’s a merry
old man with a broken heart skipping
down the other side of the mountain
to the tune from the merry-go-round.
And Bill Jones is ... . very alive-alive*
oh, he is, v/hatever else he isn’t —oh,
isn’t he?”
* * * *
Don’t Go Near the Water: William
Brinkley (Cape). Very funny sketches
about the Public Relations section of
the U.S. Navy on a South Sea island.
The style is ironical and the situations
farcical. Good-humor is the keynote
of the book but the satire is telling
nonetheless. A couple of love-stories
link the sequence together.


mm r
, *' ,
: v
emzx*-.
im
%
m
v
m
£8
: :
7
!»
pA
e*
rff
01
< . 1
Mlpli 2 j
a.
SSSvJ
‘Yes-the
makes ail
the difference’
YOU GET REAL VALUE.FOR-MONEY MOTORING
WITH EVERY GALLON OF
BP SUPER OR C.O.R —THEY BOTH CONTAIN BENZOL
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Company Limited Ci 9
