

spP e^
SGLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
MR. BROWN AND THE 3 j
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4019
Wednesday, February 20, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W. Australia, for transmission bv Post as a Newspaper.
DROITWICH, seven miles north of the
cathedral city of Worcester, is one
of Britain’s leading spas. It stands beside
the Salwarpe, a small tributary of the
Severn in a fertile and wooded plain
bounded by the Malvern Hills. It is a
town steeped in historical tradition dating
back to the days of the Romans. They,
with their usual ready appreciation of
the value of natural springs, built a settle-
ment there, and began the salt-making
industry which brought prosperity to the
town for two thousand years.
It is a town in which modern archi-
tecture blends harmoniously with the old
and it is a town which, today, is known
throughout the world for its brine baths.
The clear, sparkling brine, which is the
most highly concentrated natural brine
in the world, is pumped up in inexhaust-
ible quantities from two hundred feet
below the level of the town where it is
believed to exist as a lake formed by
underground streams passing over a bed
of salt rock. The springs are so impreg-
nated with minerals that the water is
nearly twelve times the strength of sea
water and has a greater density than the
famous salt water of the Dead Sea.
For use in the baths, the water is
brought to the desired temperature by
steam heating, thus avoiding a reduction
in the concentration. It is possible to sit
on the water, and tea is served to bathers
from trays floating on its surface ; cards
or ping-pong can be played while sup-
ported by the concentrated brine.
In 1066 William the Conqueror
claimed complete ownership of the brine
springs and the Norman kings were Lords
of the Manor for the next 150 years.
The first of Droitwich’s eight royal
charters was granted by King John, who,
in 1215, sold to the burgesses all his
royal lights to the salt springs.
In the meadows about half a mile
south of Droitwich is St. Peter’s Church,
illustrated here, which is one of the
town’s proudest possessions. It dates
from Norman times, but it also shows the
handiwork of every succeeding century
to the present day. In the register of the
church can be seen an entry recording
the birth in 1595 of Edward Winslow,
who later in life became one of the May-
flower Pilgrims. He, with others escaping
religious persecution in 1620, sailed in
the Mayflower to the New World where
they established the colony of New
Plymouth. Winslow was Governor of
the colony for several years and his son
was the first white child born in New
England.
No. 337: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
ST. PETER'S, THE FAMOUS CHURCH OF DROITWICH SPA


Learn
Storu Writing
;
686 eXtraCtS from Stott-Studcnts
IIT “ y Writing total almost
past six months my a000n-
,,-lances have returned me over £2OO ”
I list hereunder my acceptances tn rim
(( amount of £lO6/10/9.” 1 dUCOS t 0
1 have had three articles accented hv ar r>
and broadcast by the A.B C ” 7 3L °
“IS"®®? 1 ffi SmouS iTH a'fl
*feAft£or
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlerea<di St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; II Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth
~ CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON-"-—,*
To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses. F cuiars of
MY NAME
ADDRESS
R « 7 ) '•'•V.'. '.'.AGE.
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if *uc
ceesful.
The Red Page
"THE OVERLANDER SONGBOOK"
“It is interesting to speculate,” says
Ron Edwards, “on what were .the most
popular bush-ballads of the last
century. From remarks passed by old
people I would suggest that in Southern
Victoria the four most popular were
‘The Old Bark Hut,’ ‘The Wild
Colonial Boy,’ ‘The Dying Stockman,’
and the first part, at least, of ‘Sam
Holt.’ A similar list from collectors
in other parts of Australia would
provide an interesting comparison.”
My own opinion, after spending
three years making 24 hours of tape-
recordings of bush-ballads, coincides
with Mr. Edwards’s excepting for
“Sam Holt.” In New South Wales
one of the most popular bush-ballads
is Paterson’s “Travelling Down the
Castlereagh,” which is also known as
“The Bushman’s Song” or “The Old
Jig Jog.” Over a dozen traditional
tunes have been collected so far for
this ballad.
All the above - mentioned are
included in Ron Edwards’s The Over-
lander Songbook (Ram’s Skull Press),
which is an anthology of Australian
folksongs and musichall ditties culled
from recently published collections.
It is a pity that in this collection
Mr. Edwards has not eliminated the
faults which were so apparent in an
earlier collection from The Ram’s
Skull Press: Hugh Anderson’s
‘Colonial Ballads.” Both Mr, Edwards
and Mr. Anderson have a weakness
for “concocted” songs, made up of
words and music taken from separate
literary sources. They overlook the
fact that although 19th-century pub-
lishers of songsters printed the name
of the tune to which parodies were
sung, they were almost invariably sung
to orally-learned versions which
differed greatly from the original
composition.
For this reason the words of many
songs in both of these editors’ collec-
fions just won’t fit the tunes provided.
The resulting concoctions are offered
to us as so-called “bush-ballads,” which
are m actuality only music-hall ditties.
Only a very few of these ever passed
into the oral tradition.
I/ 1 , his preface Mr. Edwards says
i his collection is intended primarily
for people interested in singing our
early ballads”; and then, “It needs the
passing of the songs from person to
person by voice alone to round them
into the folksong form.” It is
difficult to reconcile these remarks with
the mutilated versions of “Moreton
Bay and “Jog Along Till Shearing,”
which are included in this collection.
„ a oret . on , Bay,” under an older title,
A Convict s Lament on the Death of
Captain Logan,” was included in Will
“""i “Australian Bush Songs and
Ballads. Some years later John
Manifold published, with music a
version he collected in Queensland—
a version which has been rounded-off
Edw nris m Th nCr describ . ed b y Mr.
The version printed in “The
Overlander Songbook” consists of
Manifold’s tune and Lawson’s words,
which do not fit half as well as the
Queensland version.
“Jog Along Till Shearing” was
collected by Jeff Way and Edga
Waters, both members of the Australian
Folk-Lore Society, from the folk-singe
Joseph Cashmere (an old “Bulletin’
writer) and subsequently printed in
“Speewa” and “The Bulletin” along
with Mr. Cashmere’s tune. This
rollicking shearers’ ballad was sung to
a tune derived from a music-hall ditty
“Bow Wow Wow,” but which differec
considerably from the original. Mr
Edwards sees fit to discard this tune
which has been rounded-off by ora'
transmission over the years, and substi-
tutes instead a version of “Bow Wow
Wow” taken from some literary source
to which the words can be fitted only
with difficulty. One cannot help but
feel that the collection would have
been of much greater use to singers if
more songs collected from oral sources
had been included and fewer of these
concoctions.
The usual procedure when publish-
ing collections of folksongs is to
include the source-data with each song.
Failure to give the sources of any of
the songs is another fault in this
anthology. For example, in Colm O
Lochlainn’s “Irish Street Ballads”
there appears a song called “The Black
Horse. Jhe tune of this song appears
in Mr. Edwards’s collection twice—
for “Botany Bay” on p. 24 and for
“Dunn, Gilbert and Ben Hall” on p.
40. Are we to believe that both these
songs are traditionally sung to this tune
in Australia, or is this another example
of synthesis? There is nothing what-
ever to indicate which songs are
genuine folksongs, i.e., orally trans-
mitted, and which have just been “nut
together.”
One must congratulate Mr. Edwards,
however, on having brought together,
in a cheap, pocket-sized volume, such
a useful collection of songs, many of
which previously have been difficult of
access. The songs are well grouped
into sections dealing with ballads
about transportation, bushranging,
goldmining, droving, shearing, station-
life and carrying the swag. The
shearer’s section, “Songs of the Shed,”
contains the best group, and these are
the songs which will become the most
popular. Of all our folksongs,
shearers’ ballads are most appealing to
the young folk of today, both singers
and audiences.
. Many of the 58 songs in the collec-
tion are illustrated with line-drawings
by the editor.
John Meredith.
Sydney in Brief
Marjorie Barnard’s Sydney, the
Story of a City is precisely the treatise
on that subject which was proper to
be published by Melbourne University
Press during Melbourne’s Olympic
year: a concise, well-illustrated, 79-
page handbook, a tourist-tour through
the city’s history, taking note of its
best-known monuments of change, its
ebbs and flows, which, without lying
open to the charge of minimising the
subject, says very little new about it.
Probably it would be hard to get
more about Sydney’s 168 years into 79
pages; and Miss Barnard has certainly
written no dry-as-dust account, but has
managed to embroider her narrative
with quotations from contemporary
observers, as, for instance, Govett
writing of the 1820’s-40’s:—
Every person had dogs, and there
were hundreds prowling about which
had no owners. No one could ride
or walk in the street in safety.
Horses ran away, children were
bitten and women frightened by
these intolerable nuisances.
And a debate over a pew:—
The archdeacon tried to oust this
gentleman, “the father of six
motherless daughters,” from his pew
under the pretext of building-
operations in St. James. The gentle-
man resisted, so the archdeacon
called in the police to restrain him
from sitting in his pew. The gentle-
man leaped into his pew “with the
agility of a kangaroo” and lifted
his daughters in one by one. Next
Sunday the pew was boarded over
and screwed down. The gentleman
went to law and in the end had his
way by the withdrawal of the arch-
deacon to other spheres of labor.
It is hard to look at Sydney today
and think of it as having been full of
parrots; or to envisage it in Mac-
quarie’s time, when “every place of
business was also a dwelling and every
dwelling had a garden and often an
orchard.”
And it is hard to look at Sydney
streets and imagine the different kinds
of conveyances that have plied along
them and vanished without trace:
horse-omnibuses, horse-trams that
were removed in 1865 because the
raised lines caused accidents, steam-
trams, cable-trams on the North Shore
—in not so very long, perhaps, the
übiquitous electric-trams will vanish,
too, and it will be as though they had
never been.
And it is the same with people and
institutions. The shortcomings of such
short histories as this become apparent
to the Sydneyside reviewer as Miss
Barnard hurries to the close of her
story; one misses the texture of life
in Sydney as one has known it in one’s
own lifetime, the heat and bushfire-
smoke of that unforgettable day in
early ’39, the newspaper-war of the
late ’twenties, the rise of the chain-
stores, the change from teashops to
coffee-shops, the magnificent murder-
and divorce-cases, the Archibald-
portrait case, the change from city
administration by what Miss Barnard
calls “City Fathers” to government by
“Labor” politicians, the growth of the
big stores and picture-theatres—all
these things made Sydney, as much as
did the buildings and acts of govern-
ment.
But that would require a much
bigger book than Miss Barnard has
contracted for. It remains to say
that the selection of engravings
and photographs is first-rate, from
the end-papers that contrast Hunter’s
drawing of Sydney Cove in 1788
with a contemporary aerial photo-
graph of the city to the contrast of the
engraving of Bridge-street from the
“Australian Keepsake” of 1855 with
the Bayliss photograph of the same
street in the 1890’s; and one might
specially remark upon the vivacity of
two cuts from the “Illustrated Sydney
News” of 1879 showing Sydney Central
on a wet morning and a scene in Pitt-
street with an omnibus moving off &nd
paper-boys peddling their papers—
there were some good artists around
in those years.
And although Miss Barnard may in
a sense be right in saying that “the
gaudy life of King’s Cross was snuffed
out” during World War 11, it is hardly
a thing one could tell the Marines—
or any other branch of the American
Services.
OURS IS A LUSH LAND
A Dog sits on the Tucker Box reading
Aristophanes,
Swotting-up on “Plutus” in a cheap trans-
lated version,
Trying to relate the moral to a sheep-dog,
Waiting for a swagman with a perforated
toga.
Obedient and faithful:
I Peaches and cream.
Old-man aborigine chases-up a wallaby;
Crafty and stealthy, but so prehistoric . . .
American tourists: who’ll climb the
dollar-tree ?
A well-seasoned member waxes rhetorical.
Ball and chain for a convict;
We ll all cut loose when the cows come
home.
Epsilon, zeta, eta, theta . . .
Wait for the bite from the smooth-talking
taipan.
Young men and maidens, old men and
children,
some schizophrenic, some psychopathic —
Whom do we owe our ancestral debt to ?
Danny O’Regan ? Lord Muck of Bath ?
Dance round the Tucker Box;
We'll all play Larry Dooley.
N.S.W.
Down to the Cross for the lyrical, epical
Bawdy and sceptical, quaint and obscene
Down to the big town’s nearest
receptacle;
Pawn of the reprobates, bohemia’s queen
Love’s free and easy ;
Life’s good and queasy;
Who’ll serve the term of an unnatural
life ?
Dog on the Tucker Box, bark to us,
Bark to us! Hark to our plea for
An objective view.
How do you figure Cook, Bligh and
Kelly?
Then tell its :
Will we ever have Tradition like the
Greeks ?
Ashes to ashes; sweat and blood to gold-
dust ...
The Dog, though he’s cultured, has
neurosis.
Collar and chain for a kelpie,
Collar and chain for a kelpie . . . •
Oh, damn the Dog!
My Mabel waits in Gundagai,
Nine miles further on.
RAY ALEXANDER.
Little Mary
Mary Pickford, she says in her
autobiography, Sunshine and Shadow
(Heinemann), was bom Gladys Smith
in Toronto, Canada, of Irish and
English parents (her maternal grand-
father was a John Pickford Hennessey).
Her father, a ship’s steward, was
knocked on the head by a dangling
block and died, leaving her mother
with Lottie, Jack and Gladys, also
Grandma, to support. . She took on
dressmaking and let a room to the
stage-manager of a Toronto Stock
Company, who got Lottie and Gladys
parts in “The Silver King.”
Gladys played a little girl early in
the piece and a little boy in the las
act; and it was here, in a first play
that she showed she had the real stuf
of an actress, stealing the scene where
she was supposed to play quietly with
blocks, while the Silver King talked to
his wife, by building the blocks into a
tall pyramid and running a toy horse
into them. The stage-manager spoke
severely to her, but retained the block-
smashing scene because it had got a
laugh. It was, says Miss Pickford, her
first lecture in the good manners anc
ethics of the theatre; and she adds, with
exquisite ambiguity:—
To this day I don’t like a scene-
stealer, even when it is myself.
Various other little-girl engagements
(one as Little Eva in “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin”) ended with a promise from
the manager of a travelling company
of work in New York. But the
company was sold, and it was only by
chance that someone remembered,
when little Lillian Gish’s chaperone fell
ill, and wired: “We want Gladys—only
Gladys.” The mother replied that it
would be all or nothing; the mother was
accepted as an understudy and Lottie
and Jack as understudies with small
parts. So the Smith family hit New
York —and another noteworthy thing
is that besides little Lillian Gish, Elsie
Janis is also mentioned in this early
part of the book as a girl-imitator on
the variety circuit—the early film-stars
had had plenty of stage-training.
By the age of eight Baby Gladys
Smith was in a new New York success,
billed, and widely publicised, as “The
Little Mother in the Fatal Wedding
Co.”; in fact, the star.
In a later play, “The Child Wife,”
Lottie and Gladys went on the road
without their mother, in the care of a
couple in the company who did not
like children; wherefor in Baltimore
the two children sought their own
lodgings, a hotel run by a German
couple who were horrified, took pity
on them, gave them a wonderful
(<Continued on page 35)


SERVICE SINCE 1823
' -It’'- i T‘-'‘ . '’< i ■ • 1 . ' ' - ■: , ' -
Anthony Horderns’
BOX 2712, G.P.O.
/A
I
<
■
YY
*
Im
■?
r -s
AT YOUR SERVICE
• < #
For over 133 years/ Anthony Horderns’ has been renowned for its service
Meet your friends for breakfast, then do all your morning shopping in the fresh and comfort of our 16J acre Emporium
Let our experts do your
ELECTRICAL REPAIRS
Don’t try to fix dangerous Electrical fittings
yourself, let Anthony Horderns’ do it for you,
we will pick up and deliver free of charge.
For early shopping have
BREAKFAST AT 8.30
Meet your friends for an early, inexpensive
breakfast before starting your shopping. Open
from 8.30 to 10 for breakfast Monday to Friday
We’re specialists in
LAWMOWEII REPAIRS
Summer grass is hard to cut with a faulty
mower! Ring 80951 for a repair quote; we’ll
pick up and deliver when finished. 4th Floor.
<s^
lilt
Bring your repairs to our
CLOTHES HOSPITAL
Here is one of the most appreciated services.
Our famous Clothing Hospital does repairs,
invis. mending, etc. Moderate rates. Gnd. FI.
A.n.5
Let us repair your
WIRE MATTRESS
0
For broken springs and sagging edges, bring
your mattress to Anthony Horderns’. We pick
up and deliver free of charge. Third Floor.
&
&//
winin'
i'lt*
•*
For your shopping Phone
B 0951, ASK FOR T.O.P.S.
If you desire personal selection of any merch-
andise, a Personal Shopper from T.O.P.S. will
gladly go around the store and do it for you.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 20, 1957
VoL 78 — No. 4019
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J; Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
1 Phohe, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O. ). Wellington .
CUCKOO IN THE RED NEST
LABOR, traditionally, is the party of the underdog.
It now suffers from a starvation in objectives—
nearly all its foes are vanquished.
Both the unions and the party, under new con-
ditions of universal jobs, high wages and boom,
very much resemble the traditional French revolu-
tionary who was discovered wandering in a dark
street shouting, “Where is the mob? I am their
leader.”
Trade-unionism has certainly swung away
from its leadership. It is becoming distrustful of
Socialism because nearly all of it has joined what
used to be looked on as a middle-bracket among
the taxpayers; and it has discovered through
experience that Socialism is an expensive spoof,,a
sort of breeding-reactor for splitting civil-service
atoms to produce more #nd more expensive civil
servants.
It would be very hard indeed for any toiler on
the breadline —if there is any “such animal” save
among the sick and the loafers —to take seriously
as a champion of the bleeding heart, dedicated to
self-sacrifice in the interest of the poor and
oppressed, Mr. Cahill’s opulent Mr. Gus Kelly,
frequenter of luxury hotel dining-rooms, or the well-
heeled Evatt family with its homes in the plushier
suburbs, or Mr. Joseph Cahill himself—Premier of
N.S.W. —who considers his well-groomed person- so
valuable that he keeps a uniformed policeman
stationed outside his office.
It is no wonder that “Labor’s” platform—
its ideals have been pawned with the go-getters
long ago—is disintegrating, and that the party itself
can only continue to exist in a sea of intrigue,
chicanery and suspicion. Its despairing attempts to
force compulsory unionism on the country, and its
failure to secure backing for the idea, speak for
themselves and for the tendency of the average
worker today to look upon unionism not as some-
thing he needs but as something that he is support-
ing because he has to in order to earn a living.
He is a unionist today because of union, not
capitalist, pressure.
Signs of the times, too, are the ferocity with
which after-hours work and profit-sharing schemes
and incentive-bohuses are contested and the ardor
with which the class-war is promoted, not for any
specific objective save that of producing bad feel-
ing which will keep the agitator’s job in being.
It is a tribute to the power of thought that the
Communist party, always planning and busy, long
ago saw the portents of the changes which are now
maturing and prepared for the new day by forma-
tion of key unions and the invention of the class-
war slogan for keeping the agitator-hold over the
union-member intact.
Everything about Labor’s policy today is
destructive of the interest of the worker, and the
new generation are beginning to realise it.
Labor is completely out of touch with this new
atmosphere in which its adherents have already
begun to exchange their new yearnings in the
novelty of spending for the newer interest of
saving and investment in homes and shares and
eight per cent, notes—a trend which in another
decade, if times remain propitious, will turn the
workers, as a class, into a community of the
little capitalists Mr. Dedman hated, many of them
owning through investment the enterprises which
produce their wages, and more and more inclined to
|end an ear to profit-sharing offers and the tempta-
tions of the advocates of piecework.
The fact is that much of Labor’s present
political trouble is due to the fact that a transition
stage appears to have been reached in which _ a
Labor party, industrial and political in linkage,
can only live bn the old basis by following Com-
munist policies of disruption and by dealing in
international politics and the bogy of war.
The money for electoral organisation thus
comes from the Red unions and from pressure-
groups. The increased tendency of Labor Govern-
ments towards brazen gerrymandering when they
can manage it and some of the strange supporting
expedients which are put forward by the unions
advertise the length to which the commanders of
Labor feel the need to go to get support —expedients
like the new liberty to steal unhindered by one’s
mates, which has been so strikingly insisted on at
Homebush’s socialised abattoirs in Sydney under
the aegis of gentlemen who were satellites of
Comrade Ernest Thornton in the days when
Thornton had satellites.
A glimpse at political issues inside “Labor” at
present can be had readily by a glance at the news
of the day over any short period; Mr. Dougherty’s
denunciations of Mr. Caliill and the whole breed
of “Labor” representatives and his withdrawals
thereof; charges of murky transactions in a place
called the “squeeze-room” at Parliament House,
Sydney; the debate around the strange appointment
of Mr. O’Dea’s brother to a Sydney City Council
job; the daily cynical references to barrowmen and
the importance which those gentlemen enjoy in the
daily-press headlines; the continual fulminations
against the Santamaria faction; the continuation
by others of Dr. Evatt’s war on the Security Service
and Petrov Commission; the silence about the
wholesale murders of workers in Hungary; the
propaganda against the Australian and U.K.
Governments in aid of Nasser, a tyrant in whose
countiy liberty lies rotting in the sand; the general
atmosphere of Federal Labor in which all is intrigue,
fire and brimstone, nothing constructive arises and
every word is a blast in aid of the theory that any-
thing which is not done by Labor or does not
emunate from Labor must be corrupt and wrong.
Fear and faction seem to rule inside the party
like a growing cancer. Is Archbishop Gilroy green-
anting the forthcoming June conference of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P.? Is Mr. Santamaria the deus
ex machina of the Democratic Labor party? Abuse,
expulsions of those who criticise, accusations,
counter-accusations, support for the Reds in return
for funds dredged up by intimidation, appeals to
|motion, jitters, threats —these are the only present
emanations of the once-great official Labor party.
It is no wonder that men like Mr. Alan
Manning have revolted and are trying to build a
new Commonwealth - wide moderate party
attuned to the new age, or to its embryo,
which seems to be forming underneath
the old, corrupt Labor way of life whose founda-
tions have rotted away, leaving it standing on bases
of seditious tendencies, sabotage, extortion and
“squeeze” and a playing-up to the worst in
the average worker by offering him more
loaf and power through use of the strike weapon
and mass pressure. It is no wonder, either, that in
politics the influence of Labor is waning and that
two States at least Labor Governments can hold
their places as Governments only through the most
questionable methods of electoral distribution.
A party with Labor ideals—real ideals —is a
need in Australia because of the climate of public
opinion afid the fact that the population almost to
a man is a worker-population. But the present so-
called “Labor party” is one which any decent
country could do without. It is now a cesspool of
falsity, hypocrisy and complete apostasy and
betrayal of the principles of Labor stated in its
platforms.
In its official form, in fact, the A.L.P. as a
whole has become a cuckoo in the nest.
Every egg it now lays is Red. Of every
important thought it breathes or expedient it
applies Mr. Sharkey holds the copyright.
How Safe Are the Banks?
CONTROVERSY between the Prime Minister and
the trading-banks seems a little incongruous when
viewed against the backdrop —ageing somewhat,
but still bright in memory—of the bank-nationalisa-
tion struggle of 1947-49. Bankers arguing with
Ben Chifley against the extinction of their banks
or against giving excessive power to a Government
trading-bank was something that fitted into a tradi-
tional pattern; Chifley was leader of a party pledged
to nationalisation and was urged on by impatient
followers hell-bent for Socialism. Menzies, on the
other hand, is the leader of a party which waves
the banner of free-enterprise and which actually
came into office on a wave of popular indignation
against the attempted Bank Grab.
The present argument is not between Socialism
and free-enterprise, but between two interpreta-
tions of the meaning of free-enterprise. Election-
eering eight years ago, Menzies undertook to repeal
the Bank Nationalisation Act of 1947 and to
remove the Commonwealth Bank from one-man
control by placing it under a bank board, with the
governor as chairman. He approved the principle
of a central bank controlling the general credit-
policy of the country and also the advances-policies
of the trading-banks, and he promised to continue
the trading-bank activities of the Commonwealth
Bank in fair competition with the other banks.
This concept was endorsed by the people at the
1949 election and even more specifically at the
election which followed the double-dissolution in
1951. Subsequent legislation is claimed by the
Prime Minister to have fulfilled his election pledges,
but the private banks don’t agree. sor, for that
matter, do a considerable number of Government
back-benchers.
Apart from re-establishing a Commonwealth
Bank board the Menzies Government has made two
major changes in banking policy. One of these
involved the special-accounts system whereby,
under an Act of 1945, the trading-banks could be
required to lodge with the Commonwealth Bank,
in addition to the amount they had there at July 1,
1945, any increase in their assets after that date.
The Menzies Government did not enforce this
strictly, and by October, 1952, the uncalled liability
of the trading-banks to the special accounts was
£545 million. The 1953 Banking Act wiped out
this liability and substituted a new base-figure—the
amount actually in the accounts in October, 1952;
subsequent liability was not to exceed 75 per cent,
of the increase in assets, and the Commonwealth
Bank was required to give reasonable notice of
calls made or likely to be made.
The second move erected the general-banking
division of the Commonwealth Bank into a
Commonwealth Trading Bank, at the same time
putting it on a similar basis to the-trading-banks in
respect to the special accounts. The Common-
wealth Trading Bank was given a general-manager,
but he was made responsible to the governor of
the Commonwealth Bank. It is against this last
provision that most of the criticism is levelled.
How, ask the critics, is it possible to speak of “fair”
competition when the real head of the Common-
wealth Trading Bank is also head of the central
bank, with the power, if he so desires, to dis-
criminate in favor of the Government trading-bank?
It is not enough to say that this is not done, or that
it is not likely to be done. The possibility that it
could happen, and the suspicion that it might, are in
themselves weaknesses in a system in which confi-
dence should be the paramount consideration.
What the Prime Minister said to the bankers
on this subject last week has not disclosed,
but he has not in the past given any sound reason
for his Government’s stand, beyond saying that it
“believes that the most efficient management of
this new banking organisation will be achieved if
we have a proper order of authority” and that it is
“entirely right and proper” that the general-
manager should deal with the governor “in the
ordinary course of the devolution of authority.”
As an expression of opinion that is all very well,
but it is not a very convincing argument for
departing from the rule, almost universally
observed, that a central bank doesn’t engage in
general banking business.
A second matter raised by the bankers last
week was a review of the whole principle of special
accounts which they suggest should be replaced
by a system of statutory reserve deposits “based on
a percentage of deposits containing an ‘ordinary’
control power and an ‘emergency’ authority.” This,
they maintain, would serve the same purpose as the
present systend, but would contain greater safe-
guards against misuse by a Government antagonistic
to private banking.
Actually this is the real crux of the argument,
which is not a question of economic theory, but of
practical politics. \ Eight years ago the Labor party
was balked of its objective of nationalising the
banks, but it has not changed its objective. The
party has not had much to say on the subject
recently, but when the wordy battle was raging
towards the end of the Chifley regime Labor
Ministers and members made no secret of the fact
that they were determined to grab the banks by
hook or by crook.
At that time Senator Armstrong told an A.L.P.
convention at Goulbum that if the High Court
declared against the Bank Nationalisation Act it
would be “brought into effect by referendum or
by other means.” He did not elaborate on the
other means, but he added, “There are men of
sufficient ingenuity in the Cabinet who will see that
the Act is brought into existence.”
No names were mentioned, but most people
would agree that the most ingenious member of
the Chifley Cabinet was the present leader of the
Federal Labor party. A little later Queensland
M.H.R. Edmonds told an A.W.U. meeting that
“we might find some other way to bring about
nationalisation of banking if the decision of the
Privy Council goes the other way.” In similar
vein Eddie Ward said, “Irrespective of the decision
of the Privy Council, once Labor has spoken and
said the banks are to be nationalised, the issue is
beyond doubt. It is only a question of when we
shall be able to do it.”
All these men are still in the Federal Parlia-
ment and Ward ranks very high in Labor’s “shadow
Cabinet.” There is no sign that he has changed
his mind on this subject since 1949; in fact, there
is no sign that he has changed his mind on any
subject since he first went to Canberra as a Lang
Labor man in 1931.
If the people of Australia ultimately want bank
nationalisation they will get it. But what a Govern-
ment pledged to private enterprise should strive to
do is to ensure that a future Labor Government
cannot foist it on the people by backdoor methods.
Mr. Menzies claims that under the present set-up this
could not occur because Labor would have “to
give due warning of its intentions by introducing
amendments to existing legislation.” This is a very
dubious safeguard against “men of sufficient
ingenuity” —and insufficient scruples.


“BUT, GRANDMAMA, WHAT GREAT BIG TEETH YOU HAVE!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Crucial Session
Political argument is so muted that it is
difficult to believe that the Federal
Parliamentary session which opens next
month will be one of the most important
in years.
Cabinet is now dealing with some of
the large issues which will come before
it. The issue of trading-bank control
seems to come to a head at last.
It is something that should have been
dealt with in 1950, immediately after the
first Menzies-Fadden Government took
office, and if it had been, it is almost cer-
tain that the Government would have
saved itself a great deal of trouble and
the economic situation might have been
considerably bettered.
Other matters with which the Cabinet
will have to deal are import-restrictions
and defence and foreign policy and,
perhaps late in the year, the report of the
Constitutional Committee from which
nobody is expecting much.
Import-restriction has become a large
issue mainly because of its application in
detail, and it is generally believed that
Mr. McEwen, in particular, is applying
his mind to the job of clearing-up irrita-
tions and anomalies and reorganising the
whole scheme to meet the improving
overseas-balances situation. But our
dependence on wool makes Australia’s
essentially a stop-go economy, and there-
fore difficult to anticipate.
Finally, the Government will have to
handle in this coming session the ques-
tion of defence reorganisation consequent
on the new United States global policies
and the perfection of atomic weapons.
Undoubtedly it will follow the lead of
the British Government in reduction of
those parts of the forces which have
become dead wood. If the saving can
be thrown into heavy-industry expansion
it should give a fillip to development,
immigration and trade in general.
It is to be hoped that any savings
through cuts will not merely be used as
an inefficiency bonus to reward people
like Mr. Cahill for their squanderings
and the provide them with the election-
campaign money which they need.
The political aspects of the coming
session are unusual. The Federal Labor
party has lost its voice. It is so punctured
that when it attempts to speak the noise
comes out of it at both ends and the
middle, sometimes in a half-audible
squeak. It is difficult to know who is the
voice of Labor.
One thing is certain from the Burwood
by-election in N.S.W., where the official
Labor party failed to nominate a
candidate and the Democratic candidate’s
vote ranged next to that of Doig, the
victorious Liberal —that Alan Manning
and his party are not the contemptible
flea on the hide of the mastodon which
the official A.L.P. claims them to be.
Unstable Hospital Finance
Rather late in the decade the Victorian
Government has appointed Cecil B.
Hearn, Sir George Coles, Sir John Allison,
Dr. W. D. Upjohn and Gordon Leckie,
all businessmen with the exception of
Upjohn, a committee of inquiry into the
financing of hospitals, with Afton
Morcom, who knows the Royal Mel-
bourne from top to bottom, as honorary
secretary.
The object of the committee is to
devise a formula for the stabilising of
hospital finance, without the recurring
crises—Cecil Hearn, who is president of
Royal Melbourne and chairman of the
Colonial Mutual Life, has recently been
advocating such a scheme —and,even the
man-in-the-moon will be quickly aware
that the stabiliser must be Federal
money.
From the bland character of their
charter and the sympathies of the men
appointed, which are implicit in their
benefactions and public work, it may be
that all the State Government requires
from them is the framing of a claim for
substantial assistance from Canberra;
and from such men, the report will be
factual, sincere, and, above all, news.
Hospital managements are particu-
larly insistent that teaching-hospitals,
which provide an essential service for the
nation, should be subsidised from Can-
berra. There are four teaching-hospitals
in Melbourne—Royal Melbourne, Alfred,
St. Vincent’s and Prince Henry’s—and
two, Children’s and Women’s, which give
specialised training.
Royal Melbourne itself has eight
training-centres: for doctors, nurses,
almoners, physiotherapy, hospital cooks,
ladiography, speech - therapy and
occupational-therapy.
Tattersall’s has turned up trumps. Up
to September last year, Tatt.’s had earned
£6 million for the Treasury, of which
£5 million went to hospitals. The balance
was divided among mental hospitals and
sundry charities.
None, of the predicted catastrophic
results of the move from Hobart has
occurred. Melbourne has not lost its
character and- become indistinguishable
from feckless Sydney, and the well-
springs of public giving have not dried up.
The terms of the inquiry will leave the
committee free to investigate the
finance methods and administration of
boards of management. It is possible that
some extravagance will be uncovered in
places; but this could well be over-
looked, by simple fellow-feeling, in
Canberra.
A.C.T.U. Does Some
Embarrassing
The A.C.T.U., at a meeting of its inter-
state executive last week, came out in
support of the Miners’ Federation call for
the nationalisation of coalmines. It sug-
gested that the N.S.W. Government
should take on the job. It is, of course,
unthinkable that the A.C.T.U. would be
capable of trying to embarrass the
Cahill Government, but that body has
already indicated to'the miners, through
its Mines Minister, that it isn’t at all
eager to become the One Big Colliery
Proprietor in N.S.W. Its diplomatic
excuse is that it hasn’t got the money.
Still, the A.C.T.U. very sanely refused
to support a proposal for a demonstra-
tion in Sydney by coalminers—a march
on Parliament House or some such stunt
beloved of Communist-led organisations
outside Russia. It also turned-down the
suggestion of a tax on oil imports and
restrictions on the use of oil in industry.
There was also a certain amount of
embarrassing inherent in the executive’s
resolution on migration, the embarrassee
being Albert Monk, president of the
A.C.T.U. Monk is a member of the
Advisory Committee on Migration and
has recently given wholehearted
approval of the current migration pro-
gramme. At the Australian Citizenship
(Convention in Canberra last month he
commented on the agitation for a reduc-
tion of the migrant quota by saying that
the flow of migrants should not be
turned on and off like a tap. He said
that the fact that there might be some
unemployment in one part of Australia
didn’t mean that there were not unfilled
vacancies in other areas. “I do not feel
that we should adopt panic measures
merely because some • unemployment has
occurred.”
The A.C.T.U. hasn’t exactly panicked,
but on Thursday it decided to ask the
Federal Government to review the
migrant-target because of the internal
economic position “resulting from the
Federal Government’s failure to ensure
full employment in all States.” The
executive was at pains to emphasise that
Albert’s speech “in no Way departed from
the policy of the movement.” The resolu-
tion may not be quite covered by Monk’s
stricture against turning the tap on and
off, but the executive’s two statements
are an excellent example of blowing hot
and cold at the same time.
Where and How Is TV Going
[From “In the ACT’ l
Is television, especially commercial tele-
vision, going to realise the high hopes of
those who have started it in Australia?
Are advertisers, paying huge amounts
for imported and not-always-acceptable
programmes in the hope that eventually
they will reap rewards when larger
viewing audiences make their investment
worth while, feeling happy about it all?
What is happening to the promised Aus-
tralian features, which, according to
reports, must be sold abroad as well as
at home if the high production costs are
to be met? What actuality programmes
are in prospect in addition to news and
sport? How many buyers of sets, which
cost more than twice as much as in the
U.S.A., are pleased with their investment
so far? How serious is the impact on
the advertising revenues of newspapers,
other journals, and the commercial radio-
stations?
These are questions which need asking
and answering. The daily newspapers,
mostly with large stakes in TV-stations,
don't ask them, but the advertisers in
particular are starting to sit up and
demand answers. It isn’t easy to get all
the relevant details, but up to the end of
November about 36,000 sets had been
made in Australia and fewer than 20,000
had been sold —including nearly 14,000
in Victoria, where the Olympics were
televised.
At some time or other Parliament will
probably demand details of local and
imported programmes and a report on
the way in which stations are observing
the conditions of their licences.
Experience overseas has shown that more
and more viewers, once the initial
novelty has worn off, become completely
indifferent to even good filmed pro-
grammes, and demand actuality, with all
its shortcomings. This, in turn, leads to
enormous expense. Plays have to be
memorised and rehearsed, all kinds of
events have to be “covered,” and fed into
the transmitting-stations for selection at
appropriate times.
In fact, the expense involved in such
programmes probably means that they
won’t be attempted in Australia, with its
comparatively small number of viewers,
even whet* saturation-point is reached,
except on most exceptional occasions.
The one exception may be Federal
Parliament, already conscious of the
approach of coaxial cable and likely to
streamline its procedures this year in
preparation for appearing on the TV-
screens. Some of the chief actors may
revel in this, but the impact on the view-
ing public remains to be seen, both
politically and from the viewpoints of
education and entertainment.
Sport, news-commentaries, occasional
documentaries and education appear to
be fields in which TV must have increas-
ing importance, but not all sporting
bodies have so far felt justified in making
facilities available. In education, one
essential'in most branches is that it should
be Australian in emphasis and angle,
designed for Australian children (and
adults?), and produced with the best
available advice and staffs. If it is
granted that these fields have a future,
what of the rest of the programme-
times? What will be the size of the view-
ing audiences, and what will be the re-
actions, if any, to the “commercials”
which seek to sell the sponsor’s products?
The TV world has nbver forgotten the
story of the simultaneous flushing of all
New York toilets during the “com-
mercial” interludes.
"Voyaging"
[By Kay Alexander]
Monday, February 11. The writer beat
the dawn, and from his remote
Sydney western suburb groped into
Garden Island, attaching a murky signifi-
cance to every stray puff of wind. From
Garden Island he was taken by launch—
along with a motley crew of® pfess gentle-
men (and one heroic lady from a woman’s
magazine: there’s always an angle!),
newsreel, radio and TV reps—to
Cockatoo Island, where the R.A.N.’s
latest and proudest possession, a racy-
looking craft, the H.M.A.S. Voyager,
lay in berth.
On board, and to morning-tea (at
eight-o’clock) in the wardroom, a
modernistically - designed compartment
that could have been a miniature suite
on the Mariposa—soft carpet, green- and
beige-colored lounge-chairs, curtain and
chairs matched in a darker green fore-
ground to a black-printed spear-at-the-
ready aboriginal, Australian landscapes
on the walls. Enter Captain Gordon
John Branston (“Buster,” below-decks)
Crabbr tall, sandy - haired, square-
jawed ; an impressive figure. This cruise
was for our benefit. Unless we wanted
anything special, he’d “just charge out
and do a few turns” ; get her up to about
30 knots ; fire his guns. There was, of
course, the handing-over ceremony.
The Minister for Navy, Mr. C. W.
Davidson, and party (including Third
Naval-member Rear-Admiral C. C.
Clark), would be picked-up off Garden
Island ; then we’d be off.
It is difficult to be impressed by an
inspection of the ship when going through
the Heads for the first time in your life—
and in a warship—with one’s stomach
beginning to rise and fall with the
regularity of the swivel of eyes at a tennis-
match. And it is difficult, never having
exp|rienced the sensation on the Manly
ferry, to estimate how far one can go.
However, weathering the swell, we
stood on the bridge (by now it was look-
ing more like a bridge-party) and caught
the spray thrown up over the bows. Then
at 0945 hours, as per schedule, given
cottonwool for our ears, we waited for,
and were impressed by, the thundering
broadside fired. The ''handing-over
ceremony followed (now about seven
miles out) at 1015 hours on “X”-deck,
near the stern —Minister for Navy and
dockyard officials at a small table facing
forrard, braid and brass to left and right,
crew looking on, cameramen angling for
position. The Minister signs—“H.M.A.S.
Voyager has been received, without pre-
judice to outstanding liabilities, from
Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co.
Pty., Ltd.”. Red Ensign down ; bugle;
White Ensign up. To port.
“Drinks in the wardroom,” said a sub-
lieutenant. “Actually . . .” Understand-
ing, “We’ll be inside soon, anyway.”
The anecdotes compensated. “His best
was one day when he’d got up a bit of
steam. ‘Send a message!’ he bellowed
to a young rating. ‘Who to, sir?-’ ‘Never
mind who ——well to! Send a
message! ’ ”
It is, one found, also possible to
become engrossed in the ship herself.
Though on the construction-line for six
or seven years, she is extremely modern.
She has had, the advantage in the long
construction of having added the latest
from the blueprints ;* in some pases an
already-added part was removed and
replaced by another more modern. The
Voyager is of all-welded construction,
a design for which numerous advantages
are claimed.
The ship is technically neither destroyer
nor cruiser, but a “Daring”-class vessel,
modelled on the lines of the British
Daring. She is the first all-welded high-
voltage A.C. job to be built in Australia.
Her radar devices make it possible for her
to be operated without there being a man
on the bridge. Powerfully equipped for
offensive and defensive purposes, she
carries six 4.5 in. guns, six 40mm. anti-
aircraft guns and 10 2lin. torpedo-tubes.
She has a displacement ”of 2610 tons ;
390 ft. in length ; 45ft. breadth. She is
tough, light, fast, and a worthy newcomer
to the tradition of 4he “Scrapiron
Flotilla.”
MEDITATION IN U.N.
[By “Ek Bum”]
HTHE working head of the United
Nations was in high spirits last week,
according to the handout of the organi-
sation issued on St. Valentines Day
(February 14). §
And so were a lot of members. Ihere
was nobody left to bully, apparently,
except little Israel, which was still being
stubborn about getting off the soil which
the Egyptians have adopted as their own
“ head of the Quit of
Akaba but which a lot of knowledgeable
people, including men like Lord Souls-
bury, formerly Governor-General of
Ceylon, are beginning to believe, on
Sltua,lon ’ 15 not E *» tmn
™g the nations which are furnish-
ing the Emergency Force, there is no
tendency to hurry an Egyptian settlement.
Never have the soldiery of most of them
had such a perfectly lovely time.
The two combat brigades, un-co-ordi-
nated, consist of Brazilians (500), Cana-
dians (1100), Colombians (500), Danes
(390), Finns (250), Indians (940), Indck
nesians (600), Norwegians (460), Swedes
(330) and Yugoslavs (740), with a
“headquarters staff consisting of 40
officers and men drawn from all 10
countries.” There is a Canadian in
overall command, a Swedish chief-of-
staff, a Yugoslav in charge of personnel,
a Norwegian controlling operations and
an Indian handling logistics. There is
also a Canadian red-cap command, along
with a Canadian signals command, a
Norwegian in charge of the medical
branch, and welfare in charge of an un-
specified civilian.
There are now 14 countries on the
waiting-list to send troops. And there
are a large number of others which are
waiting for the bill, since most of those
who are providing troops won’t expect
to any pa yi n g
xhe Israeli sition has caused Mr .
Hanunarskjoel <f t 0 make some severe
, J , f ~ (T , A .,. v
remarks about the defaulters of Td Am
" >“> ' ates ‘ r f?°r, .S. e , u a J m
a Vs'Sance of member-States involved
because if such assistance is not forth-
must £ali > ,0 > he de r ™“ t f £ all '
However, General Wheeler is co
fident thst he will have the canal corn-
pletely open by the middle of May.
Suez, of course, remains No. 1 subject
for discussion in the U.N. publicity-
Kashmir is forgotten. The questions ot
disarmament talks with Russia take a
secondary place and Hungary, which one
might have imagined would be the test
of U.N. policy, takes a third place. B
seems that a five-member committee is
sitting behind closed doors in New York
cross-examining refugees,
The mayor of Budapest “told
the committee that the Hungarian
people asked themselves bitterly why the
(Continued on next page)


U.N. had done so much in Suez and so
little in Hungary.”
You can apparently search Mr.
Hammarskjoeld without finding a
plausible answer to that one.
Finally Mr. Mod, who was Hungary’s
permanent representative in U.N., per-
suaded him to circulate a paper “de-
nouncing the statements made m
testimony and reviewing events in
Hungary to refute the alleged ‘false
assertions.’ ”
After that the Assembly seems to have
wakened up, mustered its courage
and bravely decided that the present
Government of Hungary was there by
virtue of foreign force, and was not
qualified to be represented in U.N. under
the Charter.
U.N.’s publicists left the unpalatable
subject of Hungary to meditate on the
causes of the “expressed desire for freer
movement of supplies” within the Near
East and the fact that there is now “more
mental illness in the wealthier countries”
—possibly caused by trying to puzzle out
where U.N. thinks it is going.
Steps to deal with the crass ignorance
of the East are apparent in the sending
of a French glassblower to Burma, sup-
plied by courtesy of Unesco. And the
1.L.0. is studying the problem of why
a “long line of ships is anchored outside
harbor for da'ys, idly waiting their turn
to berth.... an all-too-familiar scene in
many ports of the world.” Comrade Jim
Healy could help, but nobody has asked
for him so far.
There is, however, some good news in
the gloomy issues of U.N.’s bulletins:
Australia 'has joined the committee of
Unicef, along with Egypt, Israel, Poland,
the Dominican Republic, Israel and others
in order to promote a children’s fund under
the chairmanship of Mr. Mahmood Shafqat
of Pakistan.
The committee-meetings should be
more interesting than a performance of
“Guys and Dolls.”
The U.N. Assembly has adopted a con-
vention to protect the nationality of wives.
Lastly, this choice titbit:
The Meditation Room at the United
Nations Headquarters was reopened for
use on February 5 after being remodelled
and enlarged. In the centre of the room
there is now a great slab of raw rock.
It is iron-ore, millions of years old, in its
purest natural form, and was chosen as
symbolising qualities of timelessness and
strength. Moreover, in its rare crystalline
form, the ore combines the quality of light
with those of durability and strength....
the project to remodel the room was
personally supervised by the Secretary-
General, Mr. Dag Hammarskjoeld, and was
carried out in co-operation with the Day-
men’s Movement... .The Meditation Room
was first opened in October, 1952. Since
then more than, 300,000 persons of all
faiths have visited the room for prayer
or meditation or to register in 57 large
guest-books their support for world peace.
How lovely it must be to see the repre-
sentatives of Moscow, Budapest, Cairo
and Dominica sitting like shags on the
rock meditating on world peace —at the
expense, inter alia, of the Australian
taxpayers.
POLITICAL POINTS
Mac Dermot (Labor), 18,516; N. Farmer
(Cons.), 17,406; Miss Leslie Greene
(Empire Loyalist), 1487. Under the first-
past-the-post system Mac Dermot thus
won by 1110, compared with a Conserva-
tive majority of 3236 at the general elec-
tion, which was a straight contest between
the Government and Labor. Both parties
seem inclined to ascribe the swing to the
unpopularity of a new bill to reduce rent-
control rather than to Suez policy. Miss
Greene’s votes, / where they weren’t
personal, were probably cast by Conserva-
tive critics of the Suez venture, but as
their annoyance was caused more by
the pulling-out than the going-in, the
votes would hardly have gone to Labor
in the absence of Miss Greene.
Two more by-elections are due next
week —Carmarthen, won by the Liberals
in 1955 with a majority of 3333, and
Wednesbury, won by Labor with a
majority of 8944. On .March 3 the poll
It costs fivepence to look at Granny
now.
© ©
At the close of primary counting in the
Burwood by-election Liberal Ben Doig
was well in the lead with 8412 votes.
Next came Colreavy (Democratic Labor),
3815; Seldon find.), 2948 ; Cunningham
(Ind. Lab.), 2745 ; Spensley (Ind.), 431.
Distribution of preferences should give
Doig the seat by a comfortable margin.
Labor did not run an official candidate, so
Cahill supporters had their choice of the
Independent Labor candidate, the D.L.P.
man and two Independents. Alan Man-
ning and Kane should be pleased with
their man’s showing.
* #
Cahill’s comment on the Burwood
result was that more votes were cast
against the Liberal candidate than for
him and that the Opposition was
“welcome to any satisfaction it can find
in the result.” As the Libs, retained the
seat comfortably they should find
reasonable satisfaction in it. The relatively
high score of the D.L.P. candidate won’t
worry Cahill a§ much as it will the Evatt
faction of the party. After all, Joe can’t
say for sure whether he’ll be for or against
the D.L.P. in six months’ time.
m m
Times are difficult for foreign-affairs
commentators. On Wednesday Shepilov,
the Soviet Foreign Minister, made a two-
hour speech which was interpreted as an
attempt to restore the “Geneva spirit”
through a “peace offensive.” On Friday
he was replaced as Foreign Minister by
Gromyko, who while delegate to U.N.
was credited with more “No, no’s” than
Nanette ever heard in all her young life.
© ®
N. S. Wales’Parliament will reopen on
February 26 for a seven-week session.
Chief bills to be presented will fix interest-
rate on h.-p. agreements ; lift the 150 ft.
limit on the height of city buildings;
provide for the licensing of business-
agents.
e a
Vic. A.L.P. intends to propose at
the Federal Labor conference in Bris-
bane on March 11 that it is time the party
did something about unification; the
idea is a Commonwealth Parliament with
full sovereign powers, the States to be
replaced by a larger number of provincial
councils with very limited functions. It
is much easier for State Labor parties
to think in terms of unification when they
are in Opposition—as in Victoria at
present. In Queensland, where the party
has been in office since 1932, the aboli-
tion of State Parliaments is not likely to
find much support. The same applies
to N. S. Wales, Labor-governed since
1941, and Tasmania (since 1934).
• •
Sir Ross McLarty, Opposition-leader
and Leader of the Liberal party in the
Westralian Parliament, has resigned from
both posts through ill-health. McLarty
has £een M.L.A. for Murray isnce 1930
and was Premier of W.A. from 1947-53.
He will remain in the Assembly as a
private member.
e o
Communist J. Healy is off to Hamburg
to an 1.L.0. conference ; he intends to
be away five months. Presumably Aus-
tralia pays his expenses to, from and
during the conference. Who settles his
bills for the rest of the time is probably
a matter between the wharfies, the local
Reds and Moscow.
o •
Loss by the Conservatives of the North
Lewisham by-election has been inter-
preted in some quarters to mean that the
writing is on the wall for the Macmillan
Government. The assumption is being
made rather too easily. Recent Australian
experience points the other way. In 1951
the Menzies Government lost the Flinders
seat at a by-election and saw its majority
severely reduced in North Sydney, yet it
won the subsequent general election com-
fortably and has won another one sipce.
The N. S. Wales Labor Government lost
three by-elections in a row in 1948, but is
still in office nine years later.
Voting in North Lewisham was Niall
to fill Sir Anthony Eden’s- seat Will be
held. Nothing but an avalanche could
affect Leamington. Eden’s majority last
election was 13,466 '
• •
Well-known legal and military lumin-
ary Eugene Gorman, Q.C., is to conduct
the Australian end of an investigation of
recent events in Hungary by hearing the
testimonies of refugees who have reached
this country. The idea was suggested by
the U.N. special committee, and similar
investigations will be made in Europe
and elsewhere. Australia is a member of
the five-nation committee.
■ •
© ©
“In the ACT”: Seato delegates and
security and other staffs will take over
the main floor of Parliament House in
Canberra from March 8 to 13, making it
impossible for members of the general
public to see over Parliament House.
They will also occupy most of the
accommodation at Canberra’s hotels,
making it almost impossible for visitors to
get beds. The three-day talks of the
South-East Asia Treaty Organisation
delegates from March 11 to 13 will be
preceded by talks between defence chiefs.
There will be a communique at the con-
clusion of the talks, and the annual report
will be issued. Major topics will include
defence-planning and -organisation, 1 and
the progress of anti-subversion activity.
The latter includes the issue, as a paper-
back costing 10 cents, of R. G. Casey’s
book, Friends and Neighbors, for
distribution with other works in the
market-places of Asia, now flooded by
cheap Soviet propaganda.
• o
Tengku Abdul Rahman, Chief Minister
of Malaya, said last week that British
troops would continue to fight Communist
terrorism in Malaya after his country
gained its independence at the end of
August. He added that Communism was
fighting British democracy. Its terrorist
activities in Malaya had originally been
directed against the British, but were now
continuing against the elected
Government. It is to be hoped these
remarks were read by members of the
Federal Opposition, many of whom seem
to think the Australian troops in Malaya
are being used to suppress a genuine
nationalist movement and to - perpetuate
“colonialism.”
» 0"’, i
According to Adelaide “Xdvertiser”
Bill Grayden, the Westralian M.L.A. who
was chairman ,of the select committee
which reported on the Warburton
aborigines, moved that one of his critics,
Rupert Murdoch of the Adelaide “News,”
should be “arranged before the House.”
Sounds like a job for an embalmer.
© •
The assurance of the Indonesian
Ambassador that his country has no inten-
tion of using force to take Dutch New
Guinea is welcome, but does it meap that
Soekarno has changed his mind in the
past 18 months? In August, 1955, the
Indonesian President was Saying that
Irian would be freed “with the
Indonesian nation’s own strength” and
was exhorting his people with these
words: “Let us mobilise all our power.
Let us mobilise all our fighting
potential.” Perhaps that was figurative
language, but did the Indonesian
people understand it as such?,
® ©
The Tasmanian Anti-Communist
Labor party announced at the weekend
that it had become an affiliated branch
of the Democratic Labor party. The
move followed a visit from Alan Man-
ning, and is the firstfruits of an attempt
to make the D.L.P. a Federal party.
© •
“Stromlo”: As a result of import-
licensing some local manufacturers have
“never had it so good.” Though some
sections of the community are finding the
controls burdensome the Associated
Chambers of Manufactures find it
hard to restrain its glee at the situation.
In a comment on the January trade
figures, showing average exports of
£78.6 million and imports of '£60.4 mil-
lion for each of the first seven months
of the financial year, the assistant-director,
R. ,W. C. Anderson, solemnly .warned
the Government that it would be prudent
to “move cautiously when adjusting
licensing levels.” He added that nobody,
and “certainly not manufacturers,”
would like to see a return of the pendu-
lum result of extreme licensing variations
from quarter to quarter.
• 9
The promised Export Payment
Insurance Corporation to be set up by
the Commonwealth Government is
expected to be launched by June. It will
provide cover against risk of loss by
exporters through bankruptcy of overseas
buyers ; through the failure of a buyer
to pay within twelve months of to obtain
foreign exchange ; war or other distur-
bances in a foreign country. It is
expected that a British expert on export
insurance will get the job of commis-
sioner of the corporation.
. • •
Since the hew scheme for selling N. S.
Wales Housing Commission homes
began last October the Rural Bank has
sold 536 homes; another 315 sales have
been approved and negotiations are in
progress with a further 195 would-be
purchasers.
• •
Money paid to a petrol reseller by an
oil company to secure his agreement to
become a “one-braifd” man must be
treated by the recipient as income, accord-
ing to a High Court judgment. Taylor,
J., in a reserved judgment, rejected an
appeal by a service-station proprietor
against an income-tax assessment which
treated as income £4OOO he had thus
received in 1952 and 1953. Appellant
had claimed the payments were of a
capital nature. In view of the number
of “one-brand” stations opened in the
last few years quite a lot of petrol-men
will probably have a personal interest in
the decision.
• e -
Attempts to develop the tea-growing
possibilities of NeV Guinea will get a
boost from the establishment at Garaina
in the, Waria Valley, inland from Lae, of
the island’s first tea-factory. A prefabri-
cated steel job, manufactured in Britain,
it was flown to Garaina for erection.
9 ©
“Dietician” waxes momentarily
poetical:
Show me the politician
Suffering from malnutrition.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
A FEW months ago sundry readers
of the “A.B.C. Weekly” com-
plained about sdme small, popular-music
ensembles often heard on the national
programme. The most criticised was
Geza Bachmann’s Trio. The A.8.C.,
unexpectedly very sensitive to these
critics, cut out a half of Geza Bachmann’s
programme, in which Thopias Tycho is a
pianist, introducing in its place Thomas
Tycho’s Ensemble, in which Geza
Bachmann is a violinist.—“ Mag.”
“Melboy”: Keeping hep to today’s
yak-yak is enough to fracture most of us
no longer wet behind the ears ; maybe it’s
just as well TV can be enjoyed, without
reference to its behind-the-scenes terms
and definitions ; e.g., from a TV hand-
book: idiot-sheet, clientitis, cow-catcher,
aidma, # quonking, belcher, zilch, woof,
whip-shot, drooling, cherry-pie, down-in-
the-mud, back-time, dinky-inkie, the tip,
bye-bye, blizzard-head, rotate the yoke,
and ulcer-factory.
“Meem”: Boarding at a farmhouse
(being a schoolie) I often tell the kids
stories by the fire. I was telling them
the story of the Crucifixion, and when I
came to the Crowning of Thorns one little
girl looked up and said, “Poor wretch!”
9 9 9
“Fairf”: To walk along our railway-
platform any morning is to run the
gauntlet of “Bon journo” after “Bon
journo” (spelling phonetic) as members
of the Italian community greet one
another. Pole, German, Dutch,
Maltese or Slav migrants gener-
"Daddy, if Allah allows us to have four Mummies, why cant
We have four Daddies?”
ally give the morning-salutation in
English, even if they revert to their native
tongues immediately after. But not
Italians. Strangely, when the same
Italians part, their farewell is invariably:
“Ta-ta.” Set me wondering whether we
lifted this expression otf them some time
in the long-ago. Cobham Brewer’s Die-
tionary of Phrase and Fable is not much
help; the closest it gets is “Tattoo,”
with: “A beat on the drum at night to
recall soldiers to their barracks (French,
tapoter or tapoter tous ).” Not much like
it, but there could be a connection. Any-
way, from what does “ta-ta” derive in
English?
*£* * •»£♦
“Rimutuka”: When Brisbane’s
Deputy-Commissioner of Taxation enter-
tained Franquin to lunch, the rumor that
he intended taking lessons in hypnotism
had us all nervous.
V v 9
“Spenton”: The wife was out visiting
our daughter in the maternity-ward. 1
was learning to be a nice kind grand-
father at home —he’s a bright kid and
I like him even if he’s only two. Every-
thing went fine, not a squark in an hour.
Ten minutes after the missus got back
it broke like a thunderclap. “What ——
?” Well, how the dickens did
I know the kid dropped half-a-dozen
fresh eggs into the bread-bin? “You’re
supposed to keep an eye on him!” I
started this job a week ago aged 50. I’ll
be 102 next Wednesday.
* * ❖
“Ardoyne”: The Melbourne directory,
classified section, lists three “horse-
dentists.” It’s mere prejudice, I suppose,
that not a single vet. is willing.to declare
himself a horse-doctor.
“Wallboard”: Talk of street-names
reminds me of the possibly apocryphal
&ory of the naming of Ewos-parade
(pronounced E-woss) in the Sydney
suburb of Cronulla. The name was
selected in honor of the late E. W. O’Sulli-
van, a member of the N.S.W- Legislative
Assembly from 1885 to 1910, and holder
at various times of the portfolios of
Works and Lands. Originally the name
selected was Ewos-avenue; but a last-
minute change was ordered when the hon.
member realised that “’E was ’avin’
you” was a little too insinuating.
❖ ❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: Scene: Fore-deck of
Sydney harbor-cruise ferry. Main charac-
ters : Teenage girl with mother and
father. Elderly gent, holding “S. M.
Herald” and furled Bulletin. Young
matron with two Villain: Very
strong but not unpleasant wind. Ampli-
fier announces refreshments, hotdogs, etc.,
available on lower-deck> Boys apply
screws. Matron departs. Returns, steps
through door, slips and is struck by wind
simultaneously. Tries to slap down dress,
recover balance and retain hold on pair
of hotdogs. Collides with standing teen-
age girl. Profusely apologises. Girl
doesn’t seem to know why. Girl’s parents
roar with laughter. Facts register on
girl. Frankfurt complete with tomato-
sauce now nestling in skirt of her balloon-
ing dress. Sudden flick of wind ejects
it. Boy makes Benaud-catch. Elderly
gent, proffers “Herald” for mopping-up
operations on dress. Matron apologises
more, and wipes at sauce. Wind chuckles
demoniacally and really blows. Two
dresses swirl up shouMer-high. Elderly
gent, leaps up; Bulletin flashes out;
downward cut on this dress ; lightning
stroke on that. Left, right; masterly
swordsmanship. Victory ! Wind con-
quered. Hems down. Modesty preserved.
Girl’s parents roar. Girl laughs. Matron
laughs. Boys laugh. Elderly gent, looks
embarrassed but dignified. Two young
men in the bows glare at him with
obvious disapproval.
9
“Kal”: “How long will they take?”
I asked the chemist, after I had handed
“Tell us about your trip below .”
him four negatives for enlargement to
postcard-size photographs. “They may
be two or three days. They could take
a week,” he said. “They don’t get many
enlargements, so they have to wait until
they get enough to make it worth while.”
A very negative way, I thought, of
developing a developing-business.
jr. >.
V V V
“W.P.T.”: There’s something to be said
for landlords who won’t let good homes
to people with young children. One
man let an almost new brick cottage to a
family, but a few weeks after they
occupied it he discovered that the chil-
dren had removed a brick here and there
at floor-level in the dividing walls to
make little tunnels for their toy train
to run through.
“Dorian”: I glanced at the English-
exercise he was doing, which dealt with
rewriting cumbersome sentences more
concisely. No. (xiii), If the present slump
in retail trade persists disastrous results
will follow as a consequence, he’d
rendered as, Were in for a helluva time
if trade doesn’t pick-up. Certainly
putting it more concisely, but would an
L.C.-examiner or financial editor pass
it?
❖ +♦♦
“Tabba”: Why “escapee” for one who
is escaping? Surely he is an escaper?
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): Having been forced
to listen to Indian music, I have pro-
gressed from not being able to bear it
to quite enjoying it. I have noticed
differences in it too, and am wondering if
the songs that sound smoother and more
melodious to me are original Indian
songs, or are Western songs adapted to
the Indian mode.
*■ * ❖
“Ladimac”: My curiosity was aroused
by a game the kids were playing, One
little girl stood with the palm of her
hand pressed against a tree ; the others in
turn took a handful of mud each and
aimed. “What on earth are you doing?”
I asked. “We’re playing William Tell,”
one said scornfully.
“R.M.”: People listening to cricket-
commentaries while watching television
will have less trouble with ambiguity
than formerly. “That was a good-length
ball. It was played quickly to the on-
side where it was picked up by the
square-leg umpire.” “By” in this case
meant “near” and not “by the agency of.”
“The wicketkeeper takes up his position
and the umpire wraps a sweater around
him” is a “wrong-’un” that could confuse
the unseeing listener.
* * *
“Looby”: Asked the grocer for six
full-size eggs. He looked bothered, then
went to the “medium” (bantam) and
sorted through them. With a shake of
the head, he evidently couldn’t find any
big enough to pass off as undersized
full-size, so he came back to me and
admitted, ruefully: “No big ones in
till this afternoon. Will you take small?”
“You bet!” I said and added, “What’s
the difference! ” He had the grace to look
guilty.
99 9 \
“Ess”: Melbourne’s Chloe may get the
publicity (B. 23/1 / ’57), but the real star of
Young and Jackson’s gallery hangs un-
noticed among a dozen mediocrities.
This four-square-feet of paint and
canvas could be worth a fortune. It
shows two barges adrift on a smooth
stream. Behind looms a misty castle
and far-off are faint ethereal hills and
over all is a pale, glistening light. The
name on the chipped, gilt label is
“J. M. W. Turner.”
“Deejaitch”: Gelateria, writte# across
a shop-window at Cottesloe Beach
(W.A.), had me tricked until I went
inside and saw a card advertising various
preparations of “Gelat.” In brackets,
alongside the name of the mysterious
compound, were the words “Ice Cream.”
It should not be long now before we Old
Australians are well-and-tculy New-
Australianised.
❖ 9 9
“Wusslean”: In the Melbourne suburb
of Camberwell residents are petitioning
the municipal council, the Board of
Works and the Minister to cancel
permits for conversion of an 80-years-
old home into a funeral-parlor. They
say a funeral-business would depreciate
property-values, cause traffic-jams, and
“prejudice the amenities of the neighbor-
hood” ; and they point out that an
application to build a petrol-station on
the site had been refused —no filling-
stations, no filing-stations.
UPS AND DOWNS
Tea goes up and bricks go down;
But, never an empty house in town,
But many and many an* empty cup,
Till tea goes down and bricks go up.
How strange that, though all men agree
Bricks need no houses, drink no tea,
No stoic finds it politic
To drink no tea and be a brick !
n.'s.w.
SWILLIAM.
ALL FORLAWN
Does someone know
Why buffalo
And couch will grow
Lush, green and tall
Against a wall,
Beside a fence,
And just as dense
Around a tree,
And noxiously
In pavement-cracks
So as to tax
Both brain and brawn —•
But scarce at all
In one’s front lawn ?
N.S.W.
P. O. M. C.


A GRAMMAR-LESSON included
** in a publication designed to help
New Australians and issued by the
Department of Immigration gives the
following examples of the present-perfect
and past tenses :
I worked hard yesterday. I have worked
hard today.
I worked hard last week. I have worked
hard this week.
I worked hard last month. I have worked
hard this month.
I worked hard last year. I have worked
hard this year.
When will they learn to talk our
language?—“Ardoyne.”
♦♦♦ ♦> • ♦;<
“Quo Vadis”: Lovely Miss Teenager
was sweeping the living-room floor, sans
footwear. Mum chipped her. “Be your
age,” said the vision. “Everybody sweeps
polished floors barefoot these days. Can’t
feel the dirt otherwise!”
“Rimutuka”: There’s a new Egyptian
postage-stamp selling in Brisbane, helping
to fill the coffers of Nasser for Nerve by
directing propaganda against Britain.
The stamp, 2£in. long, lin. wide, carries
the inscription in English: “Port Said —
"You know, the pattern somehow reminds me of the Olympic Games.”
November, 1956,” and depicts an Allied
troop-transport sinking in flames, while
in the air British and French paratroopers
are shot to pieces. Surging forward are
an Egyptian woman clutching a grenade,
a male civilian carrying rifle and bayonet
and a Gyppo soldier, also armed to the
teeth. The stamps are face-valued at ten
milliemes (about 3d.), but are finding a
ready sale amongst philatelists at
Is. Bd. each.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: On the day following
the story (B. 6/2/’57) about the playful
handcuffing of a convivial guest to a beer-
keg, a young Coogee (Sydney) bride-
groom-elect was forcibly shackled by his
mates to a 901 b. ball-and-chain at his
“I’m going to do the mouth now.”
wedding-eve party. The key was thrown
away and next morning the victim was
obliged to hacksaw himself free before
the metaphorical ball-and-chain could be
fixed the same afternoon. 1 ® The young
lady seems to have made no comment on
all this ; perhaps she felt that, after all,
that’s what he metaphor.
“Allan B.”: Noticed a doctor driving
through one .of Sydney’s suburbs with
his new number-plate. Thought it quite
fitting he should be prefaced with the
letters “APC.” I hope our Liberal
member doesn’t get ALP or AWU.
~❖ * *
“Spenton”,: We live about two blocks
apq,rt in the same street and on the way
home we usually never pass the corner
pub ... I was halfway through dinner
when the phone went. “Can you explain
how-come I got a parcel of prawns on
my dressing-table?” “Holy crow! Hang
on ’arf a mo’ . . .” Yes, his parcel of
starched collars was in the fridge well
on its way to naught-degrees Centigrade.
* * *
“Bo”: The fillum was a boxing-opus,
and the handsome hero was having a
whale of a time knocking out a row of
tough pugs who led with their unguarded
chins, with nary a glove-mark on his own
face, and his beautifully-permed hair
unmarred -at the end of each bout. It
was at about the sixth second-round k.o.
that a bored voice floated up the
front stalls of the bloodhouse: For
Gawd’s sake bend his conk, someone
I can’t stand it any longer! ”
*• * *
“Ardoyne”: Don’t know about the
Italian publishers, “Suburbia” (B.
6/2/’57), but my well-thumbed Contes
de Boccace has all the tales in French,
including the naughty >one that English
publishers blush to print except in a
foreign tongue. It’s not particularly
naughty by modern standards it s
too frank to be suggestive—and cer-
tainly no more immoral than the
Decameron yarn about the young lady
and the nightingale, or the plain terms in
which sex is discussed in today’s women’s
magazines.
“Hen Cocky”: In future, if you ever
catch me spelling stilbestrol “stibestrol”
(B. 13/2/’57) you can call me Alice in
Wonderland.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doric”: Sydneysiders who have read
Willard Price’s Adventures in Paradise
would note his mention of “the
world’s three most famous harbors, Rio,
Naples and Hong Kong.” I suppose
Sydney Harbor, where the Japs nearly
got the Chicago, reminds Americans too
much of another harbor they prefer not
to think about.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Magpie”: The two upholstering a
suite for me were taking care to make the
pattern match perfectly. “Can’t have a
repetition, can we?” they said. '“Who
knows, the Queen may be going to sit on
this!” It seems they covered a sofa for
an old dear who sat with, and over, them
all the time, leaving only to see that their
tea was brought. She found that while
she had been out of the room they had
put the back piece on, and she thought
that there was a teeny portion of a stalk
in one of the roses that was not exactly in
place. It had to come off again > she
decided: “We must have everything just
so for her Majesty, as she is going to sit
upon this ‘sofa! ” %
**♦ <£♦
“Kenyas”: A sihalf boy at our school
informed me at beginning of term that he
wasn’t a boarder any more; he was now
a day-boy. Knowing this would mean
some four-hours’ travel a day for him
and that his people were pretty well-
gilded, I asked why. Reply: “We’ve got
a television-set at home.”
*s►
“Zend-Avesta”: Trying to recapture
the spirit of my youth, I went for a walk
up Brisbane’s Spring Hill. Flats stand
in place of the boardinghouse, kept by an
old Scottish lady, where I stayed for a
few months when I was 19 and a quid
was a quid ; and I’d come in from Cunna-
mulla with a substantial cheque. I did it
on girls. Every night when I wandered
home the old Scottish lady would give me
a cup of tea, then do a bit of sniffing.
“Ha,” she’d say, “cheap scent, cheap
powder—ye werrn’t oot with a nice girl.
Shame on ye, laddie!” One day I
was in a Queen-street store, near
the \ perfume-counter, and furtively
sprayed myself from a sample
bottle of real la-de-da perfume. When
I got home the old Scottish lady gave me
my cup of tea, sniffed hard, and
exploded: “Ye bad laddie! Ye’ve been
doon Albert-street! Only a real shame-
less hussy could afford that scent!”
❖ ❖ *
“Eve”: Overheard near our pub:
“Coming in for a while, dear?” “Yes,
but I’ll just slip home and take me apron
off.” “Well, don’t put stockings on ; they
make anyone look such a snob.”
❖ ❖ *
“Doric”: Having a fondness for a
casual stroll through the bush, he thought
of joining a hiking-club and went out
with a party on trial. After an hour in
a Sydney tram they alighted at an
Illawarra-line station. “Then they all
started off full-belt,” he told me; “so
much so that I inquired if they were
hurrying to catch another train.” He con-
tinues his leisurely perambulations solo,.
❖ ❖ *t«
“Maitri”: Sydney’s heard lots, of
compositions for unusual combinations
of instruments, but there’s one that’s
unlikely to be performed: an “Imperial
March” written for 12 pianos and a
military band, the work of the fascinating
Hortense, Queen of Holland and mother
of Napoleon the Third. She also com-
posed “Partant pour la Syrie”— -the
Trench national anthem during the
Second Empire.
❖ *Z* ❖
“Rothy”: Office-discUssion turned to
Quakers and someone asked what form
of religion they had. The young typist
floored us all by suggesting that they were
much the same as the morons in America
who have more than one wife.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Kerba”: A sign outside Sydney’s
Palladium announces: “The greatest
Rock-’n’-Roll numbers played by the
greatest Rock-’n’-Roll groups this side of
Heaven.” Maybe I’m the bloke who’s
got his bearings back-to-front.
. ❖
“Doynest”: My relief at escaping my
quota of plum-jam (B. 6/2/’57) was pre-
mature. Sympathising with Mrs. D.
over the ffieft of, our plums, a neighbor
has given us enough fruit frpm her laden
trees to make about forty pots of—plum-
jarrt. 1 pray the news of our misfortune
doesn’t spread around the neighborhood
—every second garden has a plum-tree.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Phizog”: Country friend on a
visit to the city wandered in to a motor
firm which advertised used-cars for sale.
An eager salesman approached: “Any-
thing I can do for you, sir?” “Maybe,”
said friend. “Got’ny bombs?” “Certainly,
sir. This way, sir,” and led friend to the
back of the establishment. Indicating the
line-up of wrecks, he said, “We may have
something here to suit you, sir.” Friend
eyed them all with extreme disfavor;
then looked the salesman in the eye:
“Aw, I wanted a live one, not one that’s
been exploded,” he drawled.
♦j* +>
“W.P.T.” : In my yoi&ger office days
there was a round ebony ruler on every
office desk; no clerk would dream of
ruling a line with a flat ruler. Today it
seems that the round ebony rulers are
little more than museum-pieces; the
modern junior clerk would find it a pretty
hard job to rule a straight line with one.
% ■
♦j* ♦;* *x*
“Kenyas”: Crossing the overhead
bridge to our station, an elderly sumptu-
ously-caparisoned woman dropped some
money, which rolled away and hid itself
in the railway-garden at the top of a
steep embankment. Descending to the
platform, she told the men working on
the line of her loss; a gallant fellow
volunteered to scale the heights to search
for the missing cash, and when, after
several false starts, he had pulled himself
about halfway up, the foreman asked the
woman how much she’d dropped. “Six-
pence.” The foreman roared, “Come
down, Bill. It’s not worth risking your life
for.” Then he fumbled in his pocket,
withdrew a two-bob piece and handed it
to the mink-enveloped dame. “Here,
lady,” he uttered lordily, “you run off
irito town and play around with this.”
A PISCATORIAL POSSIBILITY
“Some modern theoreticians on the evolution
of Man are leaning more to the belief that we
evolved not from the apes, but from the
primordial fishes.” —Radio lecturer.
From the theory Darwinian
Stemmed the popular opinion
That we “sprang’
{“Crawled,’’ I think, would be more
fitting )
From the apes —the apes permitting.
Did we hang
By appendage caudal, chasing
Fleas, and wearing hirsute casing,
Cracking nut ?
It remains a major query ;
Some have arguments the theory
To rebut.
Still, at cocktail-party crowded
You can never say the row did
Not remind
You {although it’s scarcely flattering)
Of a mob of monkeys chattering;
Which, combined
With some manners seen at eating,
And some dials that you’ll be meeting
Give to man
A link with many features
Of our friends and fellow-creatures
Simian.
Yet the odds are no less, equal
Homo sap. might be the sequel
Of a chance
That some fish, fed-up of lying
In the water, thought of trying
Upright stance;
That he made a one-point landing.
But on land you can’t be standing
On your fins,
So he just sat there, that craytur,
Knowing that, sooner or later,
He’d grow pins.
Does the thought stick in your napper
Your ancestor could be snapper,
Bream or cod?
Do you find, aware your gullet
You may owe to lowly mullet.
That it’s odd ?
Well, it shouldn’t quite astound us.
Looking at the world around us
I’d remark,
Between fish and man the chasm’s
Small; some must owe protoplasms
To the shark l
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


Fly to any capital city by
NPV422
Pressurised propeller-turbine TAA Viscounts
are the finest, fastest and
comfortable airliners
serving all Australian capital cities.
RESERVATIONS: TAA BOOKING OFFICES IN ALL STATES
or any authorised Travel Agent.
TAA
wmmtm
9
PEUSONAL ITEMS
The Primate of Australia, Archbishop
H. W. K. Mowll, succeeds the Rev. C.
Dennis Ryan as president of the Aus-
tralian Council of the World Council of
Churches.
O @
Sketched at Sydney Showground on the
solemn occasion of the wine-judging
last week, chairman of the wine-
committee Jim Angus represents the
third generation of his family to sit on
th'e R.A.S. Council, he himself getting on
to it in 1950. He’s also assistant ring-
WINE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
master at the coming Easter Show, and
serves, in all, on seven committees. A
grazier, now 42, he belongs to the family
that owned Minchinbury; it was sold to
Penfolds in 1912. So wine lore, no less
than a feeling for the more general
activities of the R.A.S., should be in his
blood.
e •
A man who, as long ago as 1954, was
saying “Keep trash off TV” now has the
opportunity to give Melbourne viewers
something solid in the TV line. English-
born Professor George Stephenson
Browne, retiring at 66 (asked to stay on
over his time last year) as Dean of the
Faculty of Education at Melbourne
University, is in the TV business: his
session, “Professor Browne’s Study,” is
concerned with world affairs. A man of
action (M.C. and “mention” in War I),
Professor Browne has been a very active
academic leader. “Get rid of the mass
festival of exams.,” he urged some years
ago ; giving this the connotation of some
primitive rite. He studied TV at length
in the United States, had much to say on
his return about its value as a teaching-
medium, and now is stuck with practising
what he has preached.
• •
(Miss) B. M. Poole: The founder of
Highfield Tea Pty., Ltd., tea-merchants
and importers (B. 6/2/’57), was my late
father, Charles Braithwaite Poole, who
was head of the firm until his in
August, 1949.
• •
Frank Sholl, elected to Melbourne
Stock Exchange last week; is a member
of one of the city’s best-known families
—scion of R. F. Sholl, an early Federal
and State “Hansard” man who also con-
ducted a secretarial and shorthand-
reporting bureau.
Of his brothers, Eric is director of
A.B.C. organisation and one of the top
three; Geoffrev is in the furnishing
business; Mr. "Justice (Reginald) is a
former leading barrister, and Harold
(Hercules) is the “Age” senior law-courts
reporter. Dorothy, their sister, was an
international hockey-player.
Frank Sholl has been with J. B. Were
and Son 33 years. He went there from
the “A§e,” for which he used to report
’Change; Staniforth Ricketson, boss of
Were’s, likes picking newspapermen for
his staff. Frank, who was in the Army’s
finance department during the war, used
to be a cross-country runner; now he
dabbles in less-strenuous sports —has a
portfolio of them.
® 9
“A.C.T.”: New Guinea’s new public-
service commissioner is to be N.
Thomson, formerly senior inspector of
the N.S.W. Public Service Board. He’s
48,. and his experience includes many
years in the petty-sessions branch of the
N.S.W. Department of Justice; he
became the P.S.B.’s senior inspector
seven years ago. A solicitor, admitted
1942, he goes to the new job at the end
of this month.
O &
After 25 years on the council of the
National Rifle Association of N.S.W.,
£3 of them on the executive and five as
chairman, Lt.-Col. R. O. Wynne, D. 5.0.,
is stepping out of that role ; he attended
his last meeting out at Victoria Barracks
last week. A War I man, British Army,
he has been captain of many inter-State
teams and was commandant of the Aus-
tralian rifle-team at Bisley last year. He
was A.D.C. to the Governor of N.S.W.
during Lord Wakehurst’s term.
© ©
Tributes to Bill Fitz Henry:— ’
Mary Gilmore (in a letter to the' managing-
director) : The Bulletin is so much a part of
Australia, Bill Fitz Henry and his work so much
a part of The Bulletin, that he is not only
your loss, he is a loss to all of us. He did
beautiful Work in his recollections; living work.
, 1 don’t trouble about funeral wreaths.
Dead flowers are nothing. But I do want to
say that, as I used to feel as a child about an
empty space where, in the bush, an often-
watched tree had fallen, there is an empty
space in the forest of The Bulletin and its
writers, and in Australia generally. He went
too soon. He had so much to write, left
unwritten. Even W. H. Ogilvie, away in Scot-
land, will feel this.
H. M. Green (in a letter from Queensland
to a member of The Bulletin staff): I am
writing to you to. say how sorry I am about
Bill Fitz Henry. I had just posted a letter
to him when I heard of his death. You'll find
it hard to replace a man with «so wide a
knowledge of the facts of Bulletin history and
its contributors. But apart from that, he was
such a decent chap, so friendly and good-
natured to everybody. A great number of
people- will miss him, apart from his
colleagues of The B. staff.
Bill Howard (telegram): “Deeply regret death
of my old cobber Fitz.” Similar sentiments in
telegrams from Clive Morton, Peter Bladen,
A. J. Wood, E. R. Murray and others.
Jim Tyrrell: I have lost a valued friend of 30
years. Bill was always ready to help Aus-
tralian writers in their researches on any subject
under the sun. He was generous with his great
knowledge of literature and was personally
known not only to authors and artists, but to
many booksellers. A few weeks ago he kindly
edited for me a manuscript on the early days
of Henry Kendall and his friend James Lionel
Michael. It is a tragedy that Bill could not
wait to see the publication of his own reminisc-
ences; this book will serve as a memorial to a
fine Australian who is a great loss to the
Commonwealth.
Les Such: When a freelance is struck down in
his prime you can bet it’ll happen when the
funds are low. And a freelance seldom provides
for these emergencies, and has no organisation
to take care of such things. It’s a great thing
when you’re lying in bed for two months
wondering how to pay doctors and specialists
and the butcher and b'aker if someone organises
a party at the Fellowship of Writers, and comes
along with a fistful of hard cash saying, “Will
this help?” That’s what Billy Fitz did for me,
and: I’d like to record it in The Bulletin. He
was a mighty little man, and I, like a host of
others, had a very great regard for him.
Will Lawson:. I heard with sorrow on the
news last night of the death of Bill Fitz Henry,
and wish to send my condolences as I don’t
know any of his kin here. He w§s like a brother
to me, and in my long association with The
Bulletin I found him a staunch friend. The
Bulletin has lost a man who was a store of
knowledge and a landmark in Australian letters.
“P.0.M.C.”: I have found many pleasant
surprises in the Bulletin but only one
unpleasant shock —I knew nothing of Bill Fitz
Henryks death until I opened the issue of
13/2/ ’57. Bill’s passing will be mourned by all
contributors who knew him and, for me, snaps
an invaluably personal link with The Bulletin
nearly 30‘years long.
Henry Cowling (writing from Victoria): I
was very sad to read in the “Age” this morning
that W. E. Fitz Henry had passed away. I had
not the pleasure of meeting him, but some
years ago The Bulletin, in the “Wants,” asked
for some old copies of The Bulletin. I had
the ones required, and forwarded them with
pleasure. Mr. Fitz Henry wrote back to me, and
later l asked him for a little advice and his
kindly advice will never be erased from my
memory.
“Jobber”: The passing of Bill Fitz Henry will
rattle many Bulletin contributors, particularly
old-timers like myself, I met him for the hrst
time in the office about 30 years ago and intro-
duced myself as “Jobber.” Quoth Bill —"Wait a
minute now, wait a minute,” and at the end
of those minutes he told me my name and
address. Knowing that at the time he was
handling many pars, his memory struck me as
a pretty good effort. On all my visits to the
city for many years I always blew in to see
“Fitz” and \t-as sure of a welcoming grin.
M. Rowlands: Although I had known him
only a brief time, I learned of W. E. Fitz Henry’s
death with deep regret. He had been helping
me in the formation of a Henry Lawson
Museum at this school [Eurunderee, N.S.W.].
E. M. England (Queensland): I feel I must
write and say how grieved I feel to read of W. E.
Fitz Henry’s passing. Having read The
Bulletin since I was a schoolgirl and later
contributed, I came to know his name well, and
met him when last in Sydney. Vale to a good
friend to writers.
“Jindivick”: His passing removes another
character from The Bulletin scene and breaks
a link with an era that is already a memory.
I trust that, in due course, ways and means will
be found of keeping his memory green—perhaps
the completion and publication of the book
upon which he was engaged.
Bertha Maxwell: Mr. Fitz Henry first selnt
me Service Page letters in 1928. I seldom met
him, but valued his friendship very much, and
\ still treasure the occasional personal letters he
wrote me. His death means a great loss to
The Bulletin, as well as to his many friends.
G. H. Officer: The announcement of the death
of Mr. Fitz Henry last week was a shock. He
had advised me only a few weeks ago on an
historical problem.
Fred Aarons: Let me add a word or two of
sincere appreciation of “Fitz.” About 40 years
ago, armed with 24 lines of verse cut from
The Bulletin, I climbed with enthusiasm the
worn and creaky steps of the old Lower George-
street office to collect a bit of drinking-silver for
my first published contribution. Over the top
of the pay-out counter appeared the grinning
face of the office-boy, who took the proffered
strip, glanced at it, ran his finger down the lines,
WILLIAM SAMUEL READ, new S.A.
manager of T. and G. Life Society.
grinned again, and remarked laconically, “Not
bad either. Twelve-bob.” He pushed the silver
across the counter, saying: “So long. Come
again.”
That was my first meeting with the genial,
unassuming little man who was front-of-ther
house factotum of The Bulletin during four
decades. A keen sense of hunfSr, a quiet,
unobtrusive manner, and a wonderful sense of
loyalty, V'ere the attributes for which I remember
him mbit. To him The Bulletin was an
institution of which he was not merely an
employee but a working part.
o e
The has more-or-less
claimed F. Russell Martin, just retired
from the Victorian Supreme Court. A
sound lawyer and an able judge, he was
a kindly judge, too, usually, though some-
times temperamental, and he has a truly
remarkable percentage of judgments
which survived appeal in the High Court.
He was appointed to the Supreme Court
in 1934; he had a practice chiefly in
common law, was a student of taxation
laws, and was associated with Sir Owen
Dixon. He was 45 then, quite a young
fellow for the Supreme Court in those
days, and his appointment was announced
by another young fellow, Bob Menzies,
then State Attorney-General.
® ©
Robert, second Viscount Bridgeman,
has been interviewed by two Bulletin
men in two cities Sydney and
Melbourne—within a matter of days.
Both liked him a lot. He is currently
hopping between Hobart, Launceston
and Melbourne, will take in Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth and Kalgoorlie by the
middle of March, spend a week- in Sydney
from March 15, and from March 25 to
April 5 will be in N.Z.
Chairman of Atlas Copco (Great
Britain), he also represents the Various
Atlas companies in the British Common-
wealth and is, therefore, on the boards of
Canadian Copco, the two Rhodesian
companies, Delfos in South Africa, and
the Australian and New Zealand com-
panies.
On the London board of the A.N.Z.
Bank, he’s in Australia on the bank’s
business, too. He was here before in
1951, when the A.N.Z. emerged from
the combination of the two London-
directed banks. He’s also a director of
Vulcan Foundry, the British locomotive-
making concern. He served in France
with the Rifle Brigade in War I, began his
business career in 1937 when he retired
from the Army (he was then G.S.O. 2,
War Office), and in War II was pro-
gressively deputy-director of the Home
Guard, director-general Home Guard
and Territorials, and D.A.G.
9 9
Melbourne sharebroker Eric R. Jeffrey
put up an all-time ’Change high when two
of his staff got elected to the Stock
Exchange in successive days. They were
Graeme Jeffrey, his son, who has been in
business less than a decade, arid Philip
Strugnell, who reached his majority with
the firm this year. Phil Strugnell, who
was commissioned in the R.A.S.C. in the
war, played a good stick for Glen Iris
Valley, occasionally got a game in A-
pennant tennis, and is now one of the
fellows who takes the tennis kicks as a
member of the L.T.A.V. committee.
e •
According to a legend in Selbourne
Chambers, in Melbourne, Ted Barber,
one of the leading authorities on divorce
in Victoria, settled more divorces by get-
ting the parties together and sending them
home Without fee than he undertook in
the courts. He is the new County Court
judge and chairman of General Sessions.
Last year he appeared for Professor Orr
in his claim for damages against Hobart
Uni. He has been counsel assisting a
number of royal commissions, an
unusually popular Q.C., with a nice wit
and an admirable court presence.
■© . ®
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 57, Francis William Carr,
managing-director of International Majora
Paints, old Royal Flying Corps pilot, and
Rotarian.
At Auckland (N.Z.), William Edward Orsborn,
who for 45 years was with South British Insur-
ance in Wellington and Auckland, Calcutta,-
Bombay, and Hong Kong. Assistant general-
manager when he retired last November.
In Melbourne, at 54, Charles H. Lacey, one of
Melbourne’s leading industrial architects. He
designed • many big factory-buildings in and -
around Melbourne.
In New York, at 74, Arthur Deery, former
assistant sales-manager of Calvert Distillers.
Sydney-born, he practised law here before
going to the U.S. soon after War I.
At Bowral (N.S.W.), at 71, F. A. Winchcombe,
Old Digger and a son of the F. Winchcombe
who was one of the original partners in
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
In Sydney, a 93, Robert Ashworth, Sudan
War and Boer War veteran.


STAG PARTY


ABORIGINALITIES
'T'HE bush was a black desolation of
•*- charred tree-trunks, burnt sticks —
and silence. Every living thing that could
fly, run or wriggle had fled before the
fire or perished in it. Everything except
one creature. Fluttering pathetically, the
half-grown kooka flopped down from a
bare tree, struck a heap of cold ashes,
and vainly tried to take-off again. Half-
heartedly he attempted to evade me, and
squawked vigorously when I picked him
up. Normally the parent-birds would
have come winging immediately, but none
came. The skin on the fledgling’s- wing-
tips was scorched, but he was not in bad
shape; apparently he had escaped the
worst of the fire in some deep hollow”
limb. I took him home and tried to feed
him with chopped-up meat. He refused to
swallow it. Throat-massage made him
get a little down, but it was not a satis-
factory arrangement for either of us.
Then a naturalist friend gave advice:
“Add chopped-up moths and worms to
the meat, dip the lot in water and roll it
in dirt.” Jacko now hops in like an
alderman at a civic banquet.—“ Fair
Mac.”
* * * *
“H.E.”: Experience here and in Eng-
land has proved that a 3ft. wirenetting
fence isn’t a bar to rabbits. The addition,
however, of a single strand of taut wire
3in. above the top of the netting does the
trick.
* * * * •
“Kelms”: Ever seen a praying-mantis
building its egg-case? I wouldn’t have
seen this one only in the evening light the
beautiful blue caught my eye and I inves-
tigated. The mantis was clinging to a
reed, head downwards, secreting a blue
froth which it was shaping into the well-
known egg-case, and presumably
(although I couldn’t see the act) deposit-
ing the eggs at the same time. As the
froth hardened the color faded, and by
morning the structure was tough, nanerv
dull-yellowish, and hard to see.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: Another bird that covers
its eggs when leaving the nest (B.
23/l/’57) is the grey teal. This duck'
often keeps a small supply of down
■ v
handy for just, that purpose. The blue-
winged shoveller, the chestnut-breasted
sheldrake and certain other ducks almost
bury their eggs in down. Certain other
aquatic fowl, including art least one rail
and the musk and white-eyed ducks,
frequently build a canopy of rushes or
suchlike above their nests to trick
predators. What does amaze me is the
number of water-loving fowl, including
most dotterels and all plovers, that lay
their eggs out in the open, and get away
with it.
* * * *
“Ladimac”: My mother, secretary to a
firm of printers’ engineers, has a baby
"Eggs now six-and-six! Someone's feathering their nest at our expense!"
kitten, Tim, at her office. When Ron, the
fifteen-year-old apprentice, asked “What
is a poppet?” the boss, glad that at last
the lad was showing some interest in his
work, explained the function of that par-
ticular piece of machinery in great detail.*
“I don’t think that can be it,” said Ron ;
“Mrs. Ladimac wouldn’t know that, and
I heard her say to Tim ‘Corhe on, my
poppet, and I’ll get you something to
eat.’ ”
# * * *
“Russ”: Redecorated Perth’s Adelphi
Hotel has hand-painted tiles each carry-
ing a reproduction of a beer-label of
bygone days. Reminds me of a staunch
promoter of Temperance in a Victorian
town. Unbeknown to Pop, Junior
entered a “Best Sheet of Collector’s
Exhibits” in a local bazaar—beer-bottle
labels! Junior’s sheet included all the
best-known brands and even some swaps
from penfriends overseas.
* * * *
“Gelt”: The “Rabaul News” appeals
to depositors to go along and have the
current interest added to their
accounts:
BANK PASS BUK. 01 Man ol i save
putim moni bilong ol long Commonwealth
Savings Bank —ol i mas bringim ol pass
buk bilong ol i go long Bank. Baimbai of
i go sukuruim liklifc moa moni i go long en.
Start bringim i go nau baimbai ologeta
samting i ken stret kuik, na you winim
moa moni i go long buk bilong yu.
“North Esk”: To the claim that Bass
Strait waters are less cold than they were
some affirmative evidence has recently
been adduced. Two Launceston (Tas.)
fishermen found in their net a mako
shark, whose usual habitat is in warmer
seas ; a visitor to the Furneaux Group
has been identified as a giant Luth
turtle; and Portuguese men-o’-war have
also been found down that way.
* * * , . *
“Noon”: For 83 years Arnold, of
Roma, has been a name honored among
saddle-users all over Queensland. The
firm was started by Charles Arnold, who
came to Australia in- the ship Fortitude
(after which Fortitude Valley in Bris-
bane was named), and he was joined by
his brother John. They made the saddles
for the northern State’s contingent to the
Boer War. Charles’s two sons carried
on the business ; the surviving ,son and
grandson recently sold out and retired.
Hundreds of userk could testify that there
was fair ground for the firm’s boast that
if the name “Arnold” could still be read
- on the remains of <a saddle it was worth
doing-up.
* * * *
“Sister Ellell”: I had put in a couple
of young citrus-trees, and a friend—well,
he was then —gave me some garlic to
plant near them. He said the garlic
would act as a repellent to black-spot,
red-spider or something of the sort. A
year later the citrus had turned it in,
killed off, I don’t doubt, by the effluvia
of the malodorous vegetable.
* * * #
“Swelpme”: “Motuku” (B. 16/1/’57) missed
the point I was trying to make: that the
aviculturist extends bird-life, not restricts it.
If those 16th-century aviculturists hadn’t tried
to bring a shipment of birds from the Canary
and Madeira Islands the canary would
probably still be unknown to the rest of the
world, The ship was wrecked off Elba, but the
birds established, themselves on the island.
Later, Italians trapped them for cage-birds;
some were taken to Germany and England, and
avicultqdsts evolved the canary. That the
original canary was a siskin —not necessarily
a “tarin” or “black-headed thistle-finch,” as.
„“M.” assumes—is my own belief, and is based
on genetics: Though in the four centuries of
canary-breeding in Europe crosses were made
with linnet, goldfinch, bull-finch and siskin,
the progeny of the first three were always (and
"You'll have to cut out this petty thieving from mediating neutral forces."
still are, today) mules, and sterile. The siskin-
cross, however, will breed. When (in this
century) it was the aim of every breeder to
produce a red canary, a yellow canary was
mated with a South American black-hooded
siskin. The young, to all appearances, were
red canaries'. But the hens were sterile. The
cocks, however, were mated back to yellow
canaries, and the red canary was established—
with both sexes fertile. To revert to the
original argument, if aviculturists had noted the
American wood-pigeon in time, it would not
have become extinct. Its flesh a delight, in one
generation the bird’s numbers were reduced
from millions to one cock-bird. Ornithologists
frantically sought a hen in order to keep the
species extant, but unless one was discovered
in recent years, the bird is lost for ever.
* * * *
“Quo Vadis”: The myriads of young
mosquitoes were buzzing in the early
twilight in front of our beach hut. Then
the first dragonfly arrived, a bronze,-
green streak of voracious fury. More
came, six in all. As they darted in single
combat among the enemy in the still,
clear air, you could
distinctly hear the
sharp click as theif
toothed jaws closed
on each victim.
They banked,
looped, hovered,
climbed and dived,
rose and fell ver-
tically, even flew
backwards in pursuit
of their prey, faster
than eye could fol-
low, feeding hun-
grily all the while,
their big, compound
eyes seeing all
around. Themossies
dwindled, and then
were no more; and
as the evening
darkened, the last of
our very welcome
and aptly-named
“mosquito - hawks”
flashed out of sight.
4c *
“W o o r a r r a”:
Eucalypts and
banksias grow
robustly in my region, and there is
in spots a fairly dense underbrush of
flowering shrubs; hence a good place for
honeyeaters. Anthochcera carunculata—
less solemnly known as the gill-bird—is
there in force. A peerless fighter, he is a
bigoted territorialist, and spends a lot of
time chasing other fowl off what he deems
to be his property. At breeding-time my
particular battlers spend their energy
mostly in keeping predators at bay, but
in other seasons it is the honeyeaters
that seem to incur their greatest hostility.
Recently a number of spinebills and
yellowtails, rendered bold by hunger-
fire having destroyed their feeding-
grounds—invaded their formidable rela-
tive’s territory. To my surprise, instead of
belting the daylights out of the visitors,
the gill-birds accepted their presence with
quiet urbanity. I’d like to think that the
sprry plight of the refugees had softened
the tough heart of A. carunculata, but the
odds are against it.
* * % *
upon this cooking on a 'spade!
nothing to surpass the old-time
cast-iron campoven, and the spade’s best
purpose is to keep up the supply of embers
for frying, baking, broiling, or braising
—you can use the campoven for the lot.
But for best results it must be an old
oven, well blackened outside, so as to
absorb and hold the heat, and the pores
of its inner surfaces well-saturated with
the grease and juices of a hundred roast-
ings, for the better flavoring of such
breads and , pastries as you may wish to
bake, and the producing of a delicate
golden crust thereon. N •
Next, it must be handled by an expert
—one who can correctly assess the tem-
perature to which it has been pre-heated
before cooking commences. This can be
done in either of two ways: the more
finicky cook will delicately explore the
interior with the back of his hand; but
the true cordon-bleu relies upon a com-
bination of eye, ear, and the sizzling of
a globule of spit. '
The employment of exact quantities of
glowing coals above and below is also a
matter of experience, and miscalculation
here can ruin the dish. But have all these
requirements correctly regulated and you
can rely upon a result that will surpass
that of not only the finest Sheffield-steel
shovel, but of the most dazzling array of
thermostats and switches the modern
stovemaker can produce.
One dish so cooked I still remember—
the juicy leg of a plump hogget, wrapped
in its late owner’s caul-fat amid a nest
of potatoes and onions, cooked on slow
coals ... Or was I just extra hungry that
GULLIVER
THE TRIANGULAR FARM
(FROM “THE SCHOOLIE OF BLIGHTOUR”)
Drowsed in the doorway of the School of Arts,
Mid-afternoon is gritty for a dog;
Streamers the dancers left behind are swaying
As big-paunched Harry grin's and takes the
stage.
“It’s a nice place now—
Len Piggott’s property.
True,
On the granite hill a lambing ewe
Gets cast if you’re not watching carefully.
“It’s a quiet place.
Twenty mile, on gravel, then
The pub at the turnoff burnt down in ’49—
You’d pay to go to better scenery.”
(“That’s not;for mine!”)
“And natural boundaries—two mile of creek-
front.
The rabbits? Well,
The owner says he hasn’t seen ’em lately.
That is, by day. At night they take a spell.
But nothing to worry about, not —likely!
“What of the bracken on the creek-front slopes?
I’ll tell you something now:
Super. Then beasts will knock it over for you,
And then it’s cleared for sheep—the tealers
know!
“How much is cleared, how much is supered
now?
Four paddocks cleared and clean, and four
good timber.
Hill country’s good, you get more for your
dough
Seeing the survey’s taken overall.
“The country carries well, is clean and sound.
Water? A never-failing spring swells from the
granite.
A temporary house is ready on the headland,
With fireplace and bunk.” (“And dead-
marines ! ”)
“What am I bid for Piggott’s?
Walk in, walk out, and sold today.”
(“Bill Stannard’s ghost thrown in,
Trapped in the gully by the ’5O fire.”)
“Don’t miss this chance today;
Now take it quiet, mates.
Gimme a start and I’ll give you a go—
What am I bid for Piggott’s?”
And, ruddy as a fox, Harry knocks down
The heartbreak and the hope of Piggott’s farm—
That cloud-capped triangle 'beyond the turn
Where autumn bracken keeps the mountain
warm.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


25
How to enjoy a glass
of Bell’s
■v
»y/.y.
'V-V.'-V.-v
a
ftftftft
iig§s
£§ift
in!
ft#-;
ft#
A-fftS
-ft#
ft#
■ft-vXw
ftftft#
ftftft
ftftft#
■
ftftft###
ft#
ft#
ft#
##ft#ftftft#ft'
ft##:##
*
##
###
##
ftftftft##
ft#
Ifilt
•ft#
#ft
I
.
Sniff it . • • Inhale the mild yet full aroma
Sip it.. • How smooth it is, with no trace
of bite or harshness
Down it • • • Feel its warm, friendly glow
You simply cannot drown it!
BELL’S
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES DISTILLED
& BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd • Distillers , Perth, Scotland • Eft. x 823
[belEs
4>C
UAIIEV BA Alf EC
MraCPNE'Y' f EhAMLEw
■vi vue ■ •
General Credits Ltd.
offers investors
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange. Cumu-
lative stock carrying 65% compounded on yearly
rests with currencies of 5 to 15 years. Prospectus
available all branches of The Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited, Members of Stock Exchanges
and Offices of the company.
Short Term
ALLOTMENTS
SUSPENDED
TEMPORARILY
Long Term
per cent.
15 years
5 to 10 yeaj-s
4 years - -
3 years - -
2 years - -
}
7
6
**
DIRECTORS : V. H. STANLEY-LOW
(Managing), J. M. FORD, E. W. COX’,
ERIC HUGHES, J. F. HUGHES, F. G.
MENZIES, C.8.E., H, F. CLARKE.
Bankers for the issue :
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus and does not constitute
an invitation to subscribe for the debenture
stock mentioned herein.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
General Credits Ltd., Sydney Office : —235 Elizabeth St., 8M2153
QUR long-established northern N.S.W.
country paper uses up-to-date
machinery, including a new German
high-speed press and a block-making
machine. But the copy is still hauled up
by the comps after it has been set on the
linotype-machine in the same way that
has been the rule for many years—in an
old hip-pocket torn from someone’s
trousers. —“Devil.”
* ♦ * *
“Big Billy”: At Geelong (Vic.) the
owner of a 33-year-old African tortoise
has been set a problem in hatching two
batches of eggs which the mammal pro-
duced after having been kept as a pet
for more than 30 years. At time of
writing, vets, and the experts at Mel-
bourne Museum and Mel-
bourne Zoo were still
puzzling over the event.
* * *
“Jock”: The people of
New South Wales’s far
south coast are very clan-
nish, even when they leave
the old home-town. For 17
years they have held a re-
union and dance every
Easter at Marrickville
(Sydney) Town Hall; the
functions attract up to a
thousand expatriate south-
coasters. But the place now
isn’t big enough. This
Easter, Sydney Town, Hall
(April 23) has been booked
for the shivoo.
sfe * *
“Blufire”; Up Tallangatta
(Vic.) way a small hotel has
murals painted on the out-
side of its walls. The hotel
handyman responsible for
them decided to go pro-
fessional and sign his name
on each painting. Result —
everybody else started sign-
ing them. So he had to put
up a notice: “This is not a petition.
Signatures not required.”
* * *
“Uramao”: The Chatham Islands,
brought to notice by the Duke of
Edinburgh’s visit, were nearly colonised
by Germany over a century ago. The
N.Z. Co. entered into negotiations with
the Herr K. Sieveking Syndicate, Ham-
burg, for the sale of the Chathams for
£lO,OOO. The Imperial Government
vetoed the sale, and learning later that
Germany might have taken possession
without asking anyone’s permission or
paying a razoo, the islands having never
been pegged-out by any Power, ran up
the Union Jack.
* * * *
“H.C.8.”: Naturalists have long
exonerated the little marsupial of
criminal intent in the potato-patch, but
bush-beliefs die hard, and the act of
grubbing around the roots after an illicit
murphy is still universally known as
“bandicooting” ’em—well, almost univer-
sally. Wife’s sister, contending that it is
more economical to dig small spuds when
they are dear than to buy whoppers
when they are cheap, got to work on the
breadwinner. He refused to sacrifice the
earth-apples of his eye. Deadlock. A
strict neutral, I noticed certain whisper-
ings going on between the two sisters.
Night fell; his nibs went to Lodge ; it
was then my spouse asked me casually—
“I’m sure the picture on the packet Was nothing like those!”
too casually: “How do you wombat
spuds?”
* * * *
“Agricola”: “Since these trace-
elements did so much good to the sheep,”
said Bottle-jaw Smith, “they’ve been
cutting an extra pound of wool. So I
thought if it did sheep good it’d probably
perk up the kids a bit if I put some in
their tucker. But I had to cut it out.”
“Make ’em crook?” asked his neighbor.
“No,” replied Bottle-jaw, evenly, “but
it nearly broke me for haircuts.”
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Ever since reading the
par. by “Little Boz” (B. 23 /1 / ’57) I’ve
been asking “Mary,” my more-or-less
trusty but somewhat rattly old typewriter,
how it was that she and I, when dis-
cussing Sydney’s historic graves, lapsed
into stating that Alexander Berry died
in 1845. It was, in fact, his wife who died
then, and it was in her metqory that he
made available the land that became St.
Thomas’s cemetery, North Sydney. I
knew quite well (and so did my type-
writer) that Berry lived on till 1873, and
I can only suppose that the slip was made
through heat engendered by reflecting
on the appalling neglect of various
historic graves. Anyway, I was interested
in the statement that Berry left a
fortune o£ “more than £1,250,000,” and,
although the estimate seems to me
somewhat excessive, I wonder that the
Laird of Shoalhaven, as a Fifeshire Scot,
did not do rather more endowing. Cer-
tainly his brother, David, improved upon
him in that regard; and certainly, too,
other Scots (by birth or descent) have
excelled all other nationals as Australian
benefactors. An assessment made
recently showed that some twenty such
men have given to the public cash, land,
books, etc. to the value of at least
£3,000,000. All States have benefited,
but particularly South Australia (through
John Darling, Thomas Elder, Walter
Hughes, George Murray, Robert Barr
Smith, and Peter Waite) and New South
Wales (through James Burns, Hugh
Dixson, William Dixson, Robert Gilles-
pie, Alexander McCormack, William
Macleay, Frederick McMaster, David
Scott Mitchell, Arthur Renwick, Peter
Nicol Russell, and Thomas Walker).
SOMERSET
Here the sun smites like a scimitar;
merciless; it burns
the unresisting skin to Arab brown; fine
scrolls applies
upon our foreheads, round our lips and
eyes,
while I keep scenting lilac deep in
Somerset
with pearl mists curling up through
spring’s sunrise.
There I tasted tart cider from apples of
ancient trees.
Now every day is wasted away from the
vales where speech is that of bees—
brown-gold bees thigh-deep in pollen of
gardens
that are never drowned in fiery light as
these.
Oh that was my fathers’ home, where cots
stand dreaming
with mullioned windows looking on
fairytale
—the quiet, weathered, drowsy, shut-in
houses
steeped in air that’s mild as British ale
till the roads themselves seem tipsy as they
stagger
up breast of a hill or into a greener dale.
I love that wisdom, garnered in quiet
places,
shining from shrewd deep eyes and homely
faces ;
the resolute ripe speech, curdled and slow.
These are things that know no sign of
palling—
all of them cradled in legend by a sea
grey as this Indian dove forever calling
hollow notes that are meaningless to me.
The wifid would come roaring in like a
huckster crying
wares of climate. Out of the North came
he
shouting harvest moons and change of
season
till the orchard raised a plaint beyond all
reason
mantling me with a gale of dried leaves
flying
shutting me in with fecund sward and
tree.
I can see the pickers’ hands like russet
leather
and a dreaming tower
a church thrust through the welter of
ruthless weather
before that rustling shower
shut us out of the rocking world
together . . .
shut us out and shut us in together—
home of heroes .. . Somerset. . . and me.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


I.AX
tto&xi/zceJ
It will shortly file and issue a
Prospectus for an issue at par of ,
57-1-36
Registered
First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
currencies from 3 months to 20 years at
your option.
INTEREST
7%
6%
5£%
CURRENCY
6 years
, 3 years
2 years
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
INTEREST
5%
A\%
4%
3i%
CURRENCY
12 months
9 months
6 months
3 months
Interest per annum, payable quarterly, free of exchange.
64% per annum (compounded) 4 to 20 years Interest
automatically re-invested annually principal DOUBLES
in 1 7 years '
Established over 27 years.
Assets exceed € 40,000*000
Underwriting Brokers to the Issue: lan Potter & Co.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra^
Australia's Leading Hire Purchase Organization
Industrial
Acceptance
Corporation
ltd.
SYDNEY * MELBOURNEHBRISBANE ‘ADELAIDE* PERTH * HOBART
• ••••': &Smi 5
o
/ A
o
IMM
[ ssss r* ,
lilii
Requests for a prospectus, when
available, <may be made to
MEMBERS OF STOCK
EXCHANGES
and all Branches of the
S. S. & A. BANK LIMITED
NATIONAL BANK OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
and
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Business, Robbery, Etc
Inflating Import Costs
TT/fAYBE import-licensing just
-*■*■*• cannot be administered
successfully in this mortal world.
That could be an explanation
for the anomalies and high
blood-pressure that have accom-
panied import - licensing in
Australia.
Last week T. J. N. Foley,
chairman of British Tobacco Co.
(Australia), Ltd., declared that
his companies had to buy
tobacco-leaf equal to more than
30 p.c. of their import allocation
from other manufacturers “at
considerably increased cost” in
order to maintain output. Other
cigarette- and tobacco-manufac-
turers, including those newly
established, had been granted an
abundance of leaf supplies, said
Mr. Foley.
Mr. Foley claimed that these
manufacturers had not been
restricted to the extent that his
companies were.
C. E. Hiltermann, managing-
director of Rothmans of Pall
Mall (Aust.), Ltd., one of the
newer Australian manufacturers,
next day refuted the suggestion
that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had granted his co. any
preference over British Tobacco,
and said that Rothmans had had
to ration supplies of cigarettes
to customers because of, shortage
of leaf.. It had applied for
additional foreign exchange.
There appears to be some con-
tradiction in these two state-
ments, but there seems also to
be no denying that British
Tobacco has been forced to
buy tobacco-leaf, “at a pre-
mium,” from other manufac-
turers, with the knowledge and
approval of the department.
This sort of thing, in fact, is
happening, with or without the
knowledge and approval of the
department, throughout the
import business.
People with more quota than
they know what to do with
import on behalf of other
importers and take a rakeoff in
doing so.
The public, of course,, pays
higher prices in most cases, and
inflation is kicked further on its
vicious way.
To discuss import-rationing
with almost any old-established
merchant is to start something
that will soon be supercharged
with rage and fury. Usually the
complaints are of frustration,
delays and of newcomers to the
business having more quota than
they can use, which is farmed-
off to someone else—at a
premium.
Whilst new businesses these
days haven’t the opportunity (for
tax reasons) of putting on
financial fat in the manner of
pre-1939 concerns, and deserve
some particular consideration in
their establishment stages so as
not to make importing a “closed
shop” for the older cos., an
impressive number of concerns
don’t appear to be able to handle
the quotas allotted to them, and
find it convenient to act merely
as a go-between (for a rake-off)
and to become an inflationary
force as a consequence.
There’s a touch of the old
war-time blackmarket about it.
Bank Policy
TD RI M E Minister Menzies,
Treasurer Fadd e n, and
National Development Minister
Spooner on February 12 in
Canberra conferred with repre-
sentatives of the trading-banks
on the question of whether a
clean separation should be made
between the central bank and
file Commonwealth Trading
Bank, and whether the “special
account” powers of the central
bank should be relaxed.
Next day the Ministers con-
ferred with Commonwealth Bank
governor Coombs, Treasury
Secretary Roland Wilson, and
other central-bank officers and
Treasury officials.
The Ministry was expected to
consider the matter on February
19 and 20, and a joint party
meeting was to be set down for
February 26, 27 and 28, with a
special Cabinet-meeting on
February 26.
Opponents of separation dre
said to include Sir Arthur
Fadden and Dr. Coombs. Some
of the Commonwealth Trading
Bank higher-ups are believed to
be for it, especially if the
Commonwealth Savings Bank
should go over with the trading-
bank.
President Consolidated
SHAREHOLDERS in Presi-
dept Consolidated, Ltd.., have
decided to appoint a vigilance
committee to ' protect their
“Take a longer run, Squiz — you've only cracked it."
interests —whatever they may
now be—following losses .of
£741,350 for 1955-56 and
£240,487 for 1954-55, with little
hope of their getting anything
out of the ruin.
The shareholders also decided
to ask the Equity Court to set
aside or adjourn an application
by Consolidated Finance Cor-
poration to have President
wound-up.
B. O. .Smith, the receiver
appointed by the Common-
wealth Trading Bank, said ‘T
will do my best for the bank,
debenture-holder [J. N. Kirby],
preference shareholders and
ordinary shareholders... .The
bank has advanced as much as
possible, and Mr. Kirby has
advanced almost half-a-million
pounds.”
Demand for President products
fell far below its boosted plant-'
capacity, and some inter-State
outlets were lost. Recently the
co. has been getting back,
through a finance co., more
repossessed refrigerators that it
has been producing.
Chief point of Stock Exchange
discussion has been the fact that
President raised £300,000 of pre-
ference capital as recently as
March, 1955, just when its
fortunes were about to go bust.
Holders of the prefs. never
leceived a div., and appear to
have lost most, if not all, of their
capital.
Some smaller units of the
President organisation are still a
paying proposition, but, overall,
the position is a sorry one.
“The Sydney Morning Herald”
has gone up to 5d., the same
price as the two Sydney evening
papers. “The Daily Telegraph,”
the other morning daily, stays at
4d., and hopes thereby to
embarrass the “Herald” all it
can. “Telegraph’s” Monday
poster: “Still 4d.; ‘Herald’ now
3d.”
* * * *
Hetton Bellbird Collieries,
Ltd., one of Australia's oldest
coalmining cos., proposes to
wind-up. Underground fires at
the coal-face and beyond,
exhaustion of liquid funds
through trading losses, the likeli-
hood of further fires and losses,
and present coal-marketing
difficulties have ’ all • contri-
buted to the decision to
liquidate. Chairman Sir John
Butters suggested that realisation
of various assets will yield a
capital-return to shareholders in
excess of the market-price
(4s. on February 14). The price
thereupon firmed to 6s.
* * *
Imperial Chemical Industries
of Aust. and N.Z., Ltd., has
maintained its net profit at 18|
p.c. on ord. capital after provid-
ing for the prefs. Ord. div.
remains at 9 p.c. Applications for
the new issue of £1 ords. at a
premium of 55., in the ratio of _
two for five, will close on April
1. The chemical industry
throughout the world is under-
going great expansion.
* * *
Sales of Australian wool at
auction for the seven months to
January 31 brought £247.4
million, compared with £176.4
million for the same period of
the preceding season. Bales
sold totalled 2,555,499, com-
pared with 2,330,424: Average
price was 78.6 d., compared with
59.9 d.
* * *
A huge turnover in rutile at
the weekend —on the northern
beaches of N.S.W. and along
the shoreline of southern
Queensland. A full-moon tide
and the worst cyclone for 39
years have stirred-up the ocean
—and the black sand.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
m
JACKSON
O'SUMJVAjf
nxm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS *,
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cable ?•
“JACKSUL.'-' BRISBANE
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Now you can EORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BAERERE
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BARRER E
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today tor FREE LITERATURE
BARBER® distribution CO.
(Dept. 3g.), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
V
V 3 *
E
S33S>
... an A.N.Z. Cheque Account
much more convenient
Let responsibility rest gently upon your
daughter’s shoulders. Encourage her to save
her money, to budget well, to pay her,
accounts by cheque.
By using her regular Bank statement she sees
the cumulative effect of small transactions and
is provided with a sound basis and incentive
for long-term budgeting.
Using an A.N.Z. cheque account has helped
many girls to develop confidence and a
business-like attitude towards financial matters
in general.
Why not solve that gift problem by starting
an A.N.Z. cheque account for your daughter
or for any other member of your family?
ANZ
BBS
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Over 875 Branches and Agencies of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Limited throughout Australia and New
Zealand, in Fiji, Papua and New Guinea, and in London.
Agents throughout the World{
'ANZ. 94.2484'
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
a
The word
for Brandy
since 1858
m
SpmALHOSPrgj
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
TST
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
.4«.ia
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
vfAORILAND’S political
leaders are not speaking
with one clear voice on the
year’s economic prospects.
Only a week or so after the
Minister of Finance, Mr. Watts,
warned that overseas markets
“gave cause for very, grave con-
cern,” the Minister of Industries
and Commerce, Mr. Halstead,
predicted “a good year ahead.”
Both the Prime Minister, Mr.
Holland, and Mr. Watts have
hinted at the possibility of some
easing of the credit-squeeze,
though Mr. Watts said that
that would depend on prices and
sales of produce Overseas.
Election —and Policy
It is to be hoped that, as the
general elections approach, the
Government wsill not be tempted
into any premature easing of
restraints by a natural desire, to
prove that “everything in the
garden’s lovely.”
The year 1956 produced some
gratifying results: A £8.9
million (N.Z. currency) surplus
in overseas exchange trans-
actions, against the previous
year’s deficit of £26.5 million ,
a rise of £11.9 million to £76.7
million in net overseas assets ;
a fall of £13.1 million to £163.1
million in the trading-banks
advances and discounts —the first
fall since 1953.
Nevertheless, N.Z. came
pretty close to disaster. It was
avoided rather more as a result
of a fortuitous increase of £29
million in export receipts, which
reached a record £282 million,
than as a result of reduced spend-
ing on imports. In fact, private
and Government imports com-
bined were only £10.4 million
down at the huge total of £256.8
million.
Price Problem
Though wool prices are
buoyant, the parlous state of the
butter-market and uncertainty
about the future of meat make it
unwise to count on another
record income. There is a clear
need for continued restraint on
spending if overseas reserves are
to be built up to a''satisfactory
level and demands for capital for
necessary development work are
to be met.
Existing controls, which, in
spite of protests from individuals
who have suffered under them,
are helping to bring about a
much healthier financial climate,
should be retained till it is
obvious that they are no longer
needed. The Government had a
lesson on the danger of hasty
action a few years ago, when it
removed direct import-control
too suddenly, permitting
businessmen to run-down sterl-
ing funds and flood the country
with unwanted goods." This time
it should be sure.
In the last few weeks there
have been several items of good
news to offset against the bad.
Though concern is still
properly felt about the future of
Maoriland’s meat-trade, particu-
larly in beef, N.Z. lamb, which
comprises more than half the
country’s meat exports, has
lately been enjoying higher
prices on the United Kingdom
market than at any other time
since private trading was
resumed.
Prices of N,Z. lamb on the
London market at mid-January
were 17 p.c. to 20 p.c. higher
than 12 months previously.
Wether-mutton prices were 15
p.c. higher.
The main reason for the sharp
rise in prices in January, accord-
ing to the N.Z. Meat Producers’
Board, was the Comparatively
light supply of lamb on the
London market. Twelve months
earlier there was a heavy
accumulation of old season’s
lamb in store.
Wide seasonal price-variations
are likely from now till the end
of April. Production of meat in
thb first quarter of the season,
to December 29, was 20 p.c.
below that of the first quarter of
last season, and the tonnage of
lamb for export fell by 10,000
tons to 50,000 tons. But lambing
figures indicate that, for the full
seaspn, there is more likely to be
an increase than a decrease in
total lamb-production.
Trade with Germany
Two directors of the East
German Chamber of Foreign
Trade are visiting N.Z. at the
invitation of the Dairy Products
Marketing Commission to
examine the possibility of
expanding trade with the
Dominion.
Apart from butter, they are
interested in cheese, beef, hides
and wool, and in promoting a
higher general level of' two-way
trade. East German exports to
N.Z. include muriate and
sulphate of potash, sodium
chlorate, textiles, scientific instru-
ments and other manufactured
goods.
Before the war Germany held
sixth place among the foreign
nations with which N.Z. traded.
Since 1952 trade has been
reopened, but only to a minor
extent.
Japan Buys Woodpulp
Japanese paper-mills are show-
ing increasing interest in N.Z.’s
kraft pulp. Already Tasman has
sent them 800 tons and Forest
Products 500 tons. Additional
shipments are scheduled for the
next few months. A Japanese
report indicated that N.Z. was
expected to be able to supply
about 2000 tons a month, but
both the local companies have
questioned their ability to do
so at the present stage of pro-
duction. Most of the current
output goes to Australia, some
to Britain.
Cement Costs Down
The price of cement to N.Z.
consumers has been reduced by
30s. a ton as a result of the
Government’s decision to abolish
the arrangement by which the
lower-cost "N.Z. product was sur- ,
charged to enable a reduction to
be made in the price of higher-
cost imported cement.
Both locally-produced and
imported cement have been sold
at a common price under this
arrangement. Now, however,
the striking expansion of the
local industry has made imports
unnecessary. In the last seven
years the annual rate of produc-
tion has doubled from 250,000
to 500,000 tons. Great additional
increases in productive capacity
are being planned.
Since 1942 N.Z. has imported
more than 800,000 tons of
cement at an average*cost of £l7
a ton, involving an expenditure
of £14.5 million in sterling
funds.
Uranium
The Under - secretary for
Mines, Mr. C. H. Benney, has
described as “very encouraging”
the results of uranium-prospect-
ing carried out by a Nelson com-
pany, Lime and Marble, Ltd., on
its 5000-acre claim ori the north
side of the Buller river, across
from where the original uranium
discovery was made in
November, 1955.
Seven layers of uranium-bear-
ing ore have bqen located. One
layer has been drilled and blasted
for about a mile along its contours.
Officials of the co. say that rich
ore, containing from 2 p.c. to
5 p.c. of uranium-oxide has been
found, though, of course, the
average will be much lower. For
a reasonable mining proposition
an average of not less than
0.1 p.c. is necessary, and it is
expected that something better
than this will be obtained.
According to Mr. Benney, it
will be six to 12 months before
the results which have been
achieved so far can be confirmed.
The Government has helped
in the search with a contribu-
tion of £3500. It has also had
a mining-engineer with the co.’s
survey team to examine outcrops
and plan for an access road.
Savings
The net gain in savings
deposited with N.Z.’s five trustee
savings-banks in the nine months
to December 31 was more than
double that of the corresponding
period of the previous year. A
record in increased savings is
expected for the year to March
31.
The increase is attributed to
the following main factors:
There has been a falling-away of
“time-payments,” with depositors
building up funds for cash pur-
chases or larger cash-deposits ;
there is a tendency for surpluses
on current account with the
trading-banks to find their way
to the savings banks; higher
rates of interest which the sav-
ings banks are now permitted to
pay have brought money out of
cold-storage and less is kept in
the purse for current needs.


A Group of Experts to Manage
YOUR ESTATE
m
1
m
The duties and responsibilities of a Trustee and Executor
are far too onerous for any one person. Only expert
advice and wide experience can ensure that your estate
will be handled just as you desire.
In appointing the Permanent'Trustee Company to look
after £our affairs you are appointing not one but a
group of experts. Unlike an individual, the Company
is permanent, devotes all its efforts to your interests, and
gives security no individual can offer.
For full details, call in and interview one of our
Executive Officers in confidence and without obligation;
or write for our free booklet —“Trust Estates and Their
Management.’*
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
G. B. Kater (Chairman)
Dr. G. M. Barron , 0.8. E.
(Vice-Chairman)
A. E. Bond
F. B. Fleming
/. JR. Faviell
C. H. Locke
Manager: TV. L. Shaw
Assistetnt Manager: F. R. Garland
Secretary:
P. H. Andrews
Chief Trust Officer:
M. A. Foulcher
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Associate Company:
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) Ltd.
PT.J17.18
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
TTHE central bank has for some years
been assisted in its task of regulating
credit by the effect of unfavorablb trade-
balances on trading-bank liquidity, and
some release from the more-or-less
frozen “special accounts” have been
necessary. Government financial policy
(and the fortuitous rise in wool-
prices) have now brought about an
improvement in overseas funds, and, with
a higher level of bank-liquidity, the
central bank is calling on the trading
banks to increase their special accounts
as a counter to their improved lending-
capacity. In January £B.B million was
added to these accounts, and a further
£16.2 million was called-up early in
February.
The latest accounts of the National
Bank of Australasia, Ltd., covering the
twelve months to September 30, show
movements in line with current trends.
By the end of the term deposits had risen
by £6,040,065 and advances had fallen by
£4,576,817, the ratio of liquids, excluding
special account, to deposits increasing
from 25.9 p.c. to 29.7 p.c. An" extra
£7,498,442 in Treasur y-b ills and
£4,098,760 in cash, with a reduction of
£1,025,271 in holdings of public securities,
accounted for most of the £11,237,404
increase in liquids. Advances dropped
from 61.9 p.c. to 58.5 p.c. of deposits:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital £6.726.025 £10,089,037 £10,089,037
Reserves .. 6,001,840 8,146,391 8,192,530
Notes .. 47,479 47,478 ' 47,478
Deposits,
etc. .. 240,127,512 246,333,823 252,373,888
Due other
banks .. 189,779 238,909 211,172
Final divs. 336,301 454,006 454,007
£253,428,936 £265,309,644 £271,368,112
Liquids .. 51,937,115 63,902,069 75.159.47 R
Special a/c 47,737,000 40,637,000 39,437,000
Loans, ad-
vances .. 146,215,004 152,406,242 147,829,425
Premises . . 4,029,036 4,686,703 5,871,861
Other assets 3,510,781 3,677,630 3,090,363
£253,428,936 £265,309,644 £271,368,112
Continuing to expand, the bank finished
the term with 54 new branches or offices,
and, after an increase of £657,667 in the
previous term, another £1,185,148 was
added tp the book-value of premises,
fittings, etc. Other assets (down £587,267)
include a 40 p.c. shareholding in Custom
Credit Corp. r which last term paid a
15 p.c. div., the second at this rate in
the three years since formation of the
co.
Nearly a century old, the National has
a paid capital of £10,089,037 with an
Uncalled £2,700,000 in reserve. Early in
1955 a one-for-two issue at a 30 p.c.
premium brought in £3,363/012 of new
capital and £1,008,904 in premiums. Of
the National’s 835 branches and offices,
296 are in Victoria and 251 in Queens-
land, its strength in the latter State
springing from amalgamations with the
Queensland National Bank (1948) and the
Bank of Queensland (1922).
During last term interest-rates on
overdrafts were increased from 5 p.c. to
an average of 5| p.c., but a drop from
15s. p.c. to ss. p.c. in the interest received
on “special accounts” and the restrictions
on credit partly offset the gain. Costs
continued to rise, and expenses were
£680,696 higher at £7,377,530, but the
board was still able to claim net earnings
of £954,152, an improvement of
£54,096:
National and Subsidiaries.
Dividends. Writ- To Re- Re-
kept., Profit. 10 p.o. ten off. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1951.. 623,781 470,822 100,000 52,959 5,352,022
1952.. 653,666 470,822 100,000 82,844 5,434,866
Surplus liquidation Q.N. Bank,
£500,000 5,934,866
8 p.c.
1953.. 669,004 538,082 100,000 30,922 5,965,788
9 p.c.
1954.. 741,394 605,342 100,000 36,052 6,001,840
Share premiums, ■ £1,008,904 . . 7,010,744
From inner reserves, £991,096 . . 8,001,840
Unexplained addition, £7135 .. 8,008,975
1955.. 900,056 762,640 137,416 8,146,391
1956.. 954,152 908,013 46,139 8,192,530
With the 1955 issue participating in divs.
for the full term, an extra £145,373 was
required for the 9 p.c. (unaltered) distribu-
tion. Net earnings equalled a 5.2 p.c.
return on shareholders’ funds, or 9.4 p.c.
on paid capital, as against 10.6, 11, 9.9
and 9.7 p.c. in the four preceding years.
On a continued 9 p.c. div. basis the
f.-p. £1 shares at 345. return 5.3 p.c., and
the £1 shares paid to 12s. 6d., 5.5 p.c. at
20s. 6d. Including uncalled capital, there
was a net tangible cover of 325. lOd. a
share at balance-date.
The relationship .between the central
and trading banks has been under
discussion at the conference between the
Prime Minister and banking interests.
Modifications to the present central-
bank structure and the special-account
system could give the banks a greater
degree of protection against political
pressure, and, perhaps, a chance to
obtain a higher return from their sizeable
frozen accounts.
Allan and Stark, Ltd.
/~GVEN seasonable weather, Queensland
retailer Allan and Stark, Ltd., hopes
to have its hew Chermside shopping-
centre ready about Easter. The new
store, which, will cost £630,000 when
it is completed, is set on a 28 7 acre site
about six miles from the centre of
Brisbane. Initially there will be parking-
space for 700 cars and later on for 1260.
Population within a three-mile radius
of the centre is around 100,000.
All the finance heeded for the project
has been provided on a fixed-capital-p/ws-
premium basis. In January last year ord.
and pref. shareholders were pffered
505,000 new £1 ords., one for one, at a
25 p.c. premium. When accounts were’
ruled-off on July 31 last £250,600 of the
share-capital was still to come in. All
of the £126,250 premium, on which the
co. pays no dividend, was collected from
shareholders with the application-money.
When the scrip is fully-paid-up some time
this term paid capital will be £1,010,500,
including £155,000 of 6 p.c. cum. prefs.
To reduce its dividend commitments
until the new capital begins to earn
profits the co. dropped the fate 2\ p.c.
last year, to 10 p.c. on the ords. and 6 p.c.
on the prefs. (which advance point-for-
point with the ords. after the latter get
10 p.c.). Despite a fall in the term’s net
earnings the distribution was easily
managed. On average ordinary capital,
after pref shareholders were taken care
of, the co. showed 21.2 p.c., compared
with a return the previous year of 28.4
p.c. and 22.8, 17.7, 15.8, 23 and 29 p.c.
back to 1950:
, Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 5 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £, £ £ £
1950.. 72,428 2500 8J p.c. = 21,445 48,483 318,931
To staff bonus, £5OOO .. .. .. 313,931
Reserves disclosed, £45,000 .. .. 358,931
Revaluation .assets, £35,000 .. .. 393,931
Reserves capitalised, £35,000 ... .. 358,931
6 p.c.
1951.. 79,587 3000 8$ p.c.,= 28,250 31,250 407,268
To staff bonus, £14,0t)0 .. .. 893,268
Realisation assets, £31,444 .. .. 424,712
1952.. 56,399 3,000 6 p.c. = 21,000 32,399 457,111
Tax overprovided, £25,000 .. ..482,111
1953.. 65,076 3,000 9 p.c. = 31,500 30,576 512,687
To staff bonus, etc., £5500 ..• .. 507,187
1954.. 82,841 3,00010 p.c. = 35,000 44,841 552,028
To staff bonus, etc., £9500 .. .. 542,528
8* p.c.~
1955. .103,885 4,25012 J p.c. = 43,750 55,885 598,413
To staff bonus, etc., £10,300 .. .; 588,113
/ Share premiums, £126,250 .. .. 714,363
6 p.c.
1956.. 95,748 9,299 10 p.c. = 40,754 45,695 760,058
To staff bonus, etc., £12,750 .. 747,308
Down £8137 to £95,748, profit was written
after setting aside £30,210 (up- £4346)
depreciation and £70,000 (up £ 10,000)
taxation. Provision for the staff bonus
and retiring allowances (interlined in the
table) took £12,750.
Chief movements in the balance-sheet
reflect the capital reorganisation during
the year involving the issue of 105,000
6 p.c. prefs. in exchange for a similar
number of prefs. held in Allan and Stark
Properties, Ltd., the new ord. scrip, and
the growth in freeholds due to the
Chermside project:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref. ".. .. £50,000 £60,000 £155,000
Ord 350,000 360,000 604,900
Reserves .. .. 542,527 588,112 747,307
Overdraft.. ... 5,178 56,621
Creditors . . .. 189,148 170,084 181,347
Due to subsid. .. 879' 224 28,475
Staff fund, etc. .. - 20,301 23,185 24,835
Tax provision .. 67,531 79,284 89,746
Final div. .. 36,500 46,500 45,404
£1,262,064 £1,364,010 £1,877,014
Freeholds .. 255,048 250,945 414,153
Plant .. .. 184,373 221,036 233,697
Shares ~ .. 108,394 108,394 209,876
Stock .. ~ - 572,059 620,620 632,314
Debtors .. .. 135,809 157,754 181,506
Cash, etc. . . 6,381* ' 5,261 192,843
Intangibles ~ 12,625
£1,262,064 £1,364,010 £1,877,014
On Brisbane ’Change the f.-p. £1 ords,
bring 30s. (325. a year ago), for an
immediate return of 6.6 p.c. while the
div. is on a 10 p.c. basis. The contribs.,
/paid to 155., are at 245. 3d. The 6 p.c.
prefs. last sold for 19s. 6d. to yield 6.1
p.c. Including the uncalled capital net
tangible cover is £ll 6s. 9d. the prefs.,
375. sd. the ords.
Since the current term opened Bris-
bane retail trade has held fairly steady.
Christmas turnovers were reported to be
very buoyant.
V ~ i
G. & R. Wills (Holdings), Ltd.
A WIDE spread of interests helped the
long-established G. and R. Wills
group to maintain its excellent earning
record last term, .despite import difficul-
ties, and the first accounts from the
newly formed (August, 1955) parent, G.
and R. Wills (Holdings), Ltd., show that
the anticipated 131 p.c. ord. div. was
comfortably covered.
Back in the 1930’5, before the co. was
listed, the (now) principal subsidiary,
G. and R. Wills, ran into trouble nnd
wrote-off a substantial part of its share-
capital. Since then, however, the South
Australian group has prospered, and in
the last decade bonus-issues have been
a regular feature, while ord. divs. have
averaged something over 20 p.c. p.a.
On the formation of the holding co.,
G. and R. Wills shareholders received
6 p.c. prefs. in exchange for their 51
prefs. and three f.-p. ss. ords for every ss.
ord. v held in the older co. The transaction
linked the group more securely and
involved, in effect, a one-for-two bonus-
issue. Gift-scrip was previously handed-
out in 1948 (one-for-one), 1950 (one-for-
two), and 1954 (one-for-six). Late in 1*955
the parent made a one-for-three par
issue, taking paid capital to £1,150,000,
of which £150,000 is in 6 p.c. prefs.
Growing from a business established
in 1849, the group has factories in S.A.
and W.A., turning-out shirts, pyjamas,
underwear, etc., and branches in all Aus-
tralian States and the United Kingdom.
The Australian agency for the Bombay
Dyeing and Manufacturing Co. (one of
the world’s largest cotton-spinners and
-weavers) is amongst the numerous
import and export agencies held by the
group. Other agency interests cover
shipping, cement, fertilisers, chemicals,
timber, builders’-hardware, softgoods,
etc.
An investment portfolio, valued in the
books at £580,037 (excluding staff-fund
investments), includes scrip in Davies
Coop, Courtaulds, Goldsbrough Mort,
S.A. Portland Cement and Valley
Worsted. Last term investments returned
nearly a third of the group’s net earnings.
By placing greater emphasis on the
marketing of locally manufactured goods
the Wills cos. were able to maintain their
combined turnover last term at approxi-
mately £l6 million despite the effect of
import-restrictions on many of the group
activities. After making unspecified pro-
visions for taxation and depreciation, but
without repeating the previous term's
£25,000 addition to stock reserve, net
profit was down by £593 at £214,130:
G. & R. Wills and Subsidiary.
, Dividends \ To Re- Re-
Jly. Profit. Pref. r Ord. serves: serves.
19. . 5$ p.c.
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’53..126,872 8080 17* = 76,002 43,790 923,867
To staff fund, £7500 . 1 .. 916,367
To stock.reserve, £25,000 .. .. 941,367
Res. capitalised, £71,417 .. .. 869,950
’54..‘185,500 8080 20 = 85,716 91,704 961,654
To staff fund, £8466 953,189
Assets revalued, £2956 .. .. 956,145
Profit sale assets, £2295 .. .. 958,440
To stock reserve, £25,000 . . .. 983,440
’55..214,723 8250 20 = 100,000 106,473 1,089,913
To staff fund, £9286 1,080,627
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Excess, cost over for subsidiary shares,
£248,709 831,918
Preliminary exes, w/o, £2915 .. 829,003
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 819,003
Surplus sale assets, £385 .. .. 819,388
6 p.c.
’56..214,130 9000 . 116,667 88,463 907,851
Net earnings were sufficient to jiover the
6 p.c. pref. div., and 23.4 p.c. on average
ord. capital, or 20.5 p.c. oh ord. capital
as it stood at the end of the term. The
13| p.c. div.-rate (worth 20 p.c. on scrip
exchanged in the reconstruction) appears
quite safe, expanding agency work in
Tasmania and the recent adjustments to
some import quotas offsetting the
reduction in import-earnings -early in the
current term.
With the use of retained earnings and
the £250,000 of new capital the group
was able to cut £38,403 off its overdraft
and reduce the liability to creditors by
£231,379. Freeholds, at “cost or valua-
tion,” were shown at £503,772 (up
£37,380) at balance-date (July 19) and
building is now in progress on land pur-
chased during the term in Perth:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
• Pref. .. .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Ord 600,000 500,000 1,000,000
Reserves .. . . 953,196 1,080,628 907,852
Mortgage .. 150,000 393,500 379,500
Overdraft . . 361,756 165,398 126,995
Creditora, etc. .. 1,667,420 2,077,738 1,846,359
Staff fund .. 66,542 71,880 79,544
Tax provision ~ 127,429 136,235 J. 33,499
Pinal divs. . . 46,898 54,125 71,167
£4,023,235 £4,629,504 £4,694,916
Land, buildings . . 431,130 466,392 503,772
Plant, etc. .. 203,29 1 2 23,7 6 3 223,456
Shares .. . . 565,162 592,717 629,558
Stock . . . . 1,491,778 1,678,175 1,774,172
Debtors . . . . 1,330,9 13 1,66 7,4 40 1,562,949
Cash .. .. 961 1,017 1,009
' £4,023,235 £4,629,504 £4,694,916
The rather difficult trading conditions
prevailing in mid-1956 probably
accounted for a £104,491 fall in debtors
accompanying the £95,997 increase in
stocks. When the books closed there
was 255. 7d. of outside money for every
£1 of shareholders’ funds compared with
30s. 6d. to each £1 twelve months earlier.
At 11s. 6d. the f.-p. ss. ords. would
return 5.8 p.c. from a 13| p.c. div., net
tangible assets providing a* cover of
£l3 14s. 4d. for the prefs. and 9s. 7d.
for the ords.
J. Fielding and Co., Ltd.
r T'HE prosperous J. Fielding and Co.,
Ltd., has been making cardboard-
boxes, corrugated containers and good
profits ever since 1910, when James
Fielding formed the co. to take over a
business he had acquired five years
earlier. Bonus-issues, the last in 1950,
have provided 610,059 of the 704,265
f.-p. £1 ords., and for nearly 30 years
the div.-rate has only once fallen below
15 p.c. It isn’t surprising, therefore, that
the market places a high premium on the
scrip, last sales bringing 905., to return
4.4 p.c. from a 20 p.c. div. At September
30 the £1 shares had a net tangible back-
ing of 40s. Bd.
In 1954 a modern factory was erected
by the co. on 16 acres of land at Kings-
grove (Sydney), and within the next four
years it is expected that manufacturing


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Aovt.
ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
SEND for illustrated
Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
Rapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water .Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
■
plffli
usa
SillS
SP
A FINANCIAL
BULWARK.
, {
for thousands
of Australians
FOR ALL CLASSES
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
AND PERSONAL
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
i *
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD. Q <£ c i& s)
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H. Phillips, Esq.;
T. Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq.;
S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. 3. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original.
The President of The Sydney Water Board invites you to
\
M
INVEST IN THE
SYDNEY
WATER BOARD
5i% LOAN
-UNCONDITIONALLY
GUARANTEED BY THE
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT
]. W. Goodsell -x
' *
Look at the extra interest you gain on these amounts in 5 years!
DOUBLY SAFEGUARDED. The Loan is not only secured on the Board’s
income, but both principal and interest are unconditionally guaranteed
by the N.S.W. Government.
CHOOSE YOUR TERM. > You can invest for 5, 10 or 20 years as
you wish.
HALF-YEARLY INTEREST can be credited direct to your bank account.
NO EXCHANGE TO PAY. Your investment, interest and repayment of
principal at maturity are free of exchange in terms of the Prospectus.
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT in N S W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania, the Loan gives all Trust Funds the
opportunity to earn 5£ per cent, every year.
*
INSTALMENTS ACCEPTED. If desired, a 10% deposit can be lodged
with your application, and the balance paid by 31st May, 1957.
YOUR INVESTMENT will be quickly arranged at any Commonwealth
Trading Bank, through a Stockbroker, or at the Sydney Water Board
Office.
CLOSING ON' ON BEFORE NEXT SATURDAY-
INVEST NOW!
Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son.
WBLBA-57
activities now carried on at the
inner-Sydney factory (Bucking-
ham-street) will be transferred to
Kingsgrove. Australian mills
supply all the co.’s basic require-
ments.
Over the years Fielding’s con-
siderable investments in scrip
and real-estate have made a use-
ful contribution to earnings, but
the. published balance - sheet
doesn’t reveal the book-value of
the co.’s holdings. However,
with the registration, in the
current term, of Fielding’s Indus-
tries Pty. and the decision to
separate manufacturing and
investment interests, the next
accounts may give a clearer pic-
ture. It is expected that the
parent will retain the investments
and transfer the manufacturing
interests to the new wholly-
owned subsidiary.
Last term (to September 30)
there was a “satisfactory” return
from investments, but higher
manufacturing costs offset the
benefits of an improved turnover,
and net earnings of £172,028
(down £14,993) were claimed,
after providing something for
taxation and £94,150 (down
£1448) for depreciation:
Re-
Sept., Profits, j— —Dividends — serves.
£ £ £
Assets revalued, £422,559 1,087,448
To propevtv provision,
£2421 . . .. ■■ 1,085,027
1950.. 778 41Jp.q.*= 119,268 1,072,537
Reserves capitalised,
£422,559 .. •• 649,978
1951.. 470 15 p.c. = 107.949 660,499
1952.. 119.833 15 „ „ 108,386 671,946
1953.. 594 15 ~ ~ 108,977 677,563
1954.. 151.072 17* „ „ 127,172 701,463
1955.-187,021 22* ~ ~ 102.732 725,702
1956.. 172.028 20 „ ~ 140,711 752,069
* Includes 18f p.c. special dividend.
Profit (undisclosed) from the sale
of Royal Chambers (Castlereagh-
street, Sydney) was not included
in the £172,028 but transferred
to a “provision for fluctuations”
and deducted from the book-
value of freeholds. The ord. div.
was \dropped to 20 p.c., a 5 p.c.
bonus (to mark the 50th anni-
versary of the business) lifting
the previous term’s distribution
to 224 p.c. Earnings equalled
a return of 23.7 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 25.9, 21 and
15.9 p.c. from the same capital
in the preceding three years.
The balance-sheet as pre-
sented is not a particularly
informative document, debtors,
cash, investments and mortgages
showing at a combined £794,135
(up £146,520) after deducting
provisions for doubtful debts,
fluctuations, etc. The overall
picture, however, is one of
financial strength:
1954. 1955. 1956.
£ £ £
Paid capital 720,418 722,537 724,08 S
Reserves . 701,463 725,752 752,069
Creditors,
etc. . . 545,303 437,048 349,704
Staff fund. 8,092 7,513 6,335
Final divs. 71,983 80,908 63,547
2,047,259 1,973,758 1,895,743
Freeholds . 931,032 904,051 668,341
Plant . . 171,639 222,939 202,900
Stock . . 204,037 199,153 230,367
Debtors,
cash, etc. 740,551 647,615 794,135
2,047,259 1,973,758 1,895,743
The sale of Royal Chambers
would be responsible for much
of the £235,710 drop in the
“valuation or cost-/ew-deprecia-
tion” figure given for freeholds.
Despite the higher rates of co.-
tax, creditors and tax-provision
combined decreased by £87,344,
stocks rising by 15.6 p.c. At the
end of the term the surplus of
current assets over liabilities had
increased by £283,617 to
£604,916.
Plant now on order will enable
economies in production, and
shareholders, already well cared
for, should benefit from the
expansion at Kingsgrove, com-
fortably financed to date from
the co.’s own resources.
National Minerals Holdings
PROSPECTIVE shareholders
in National Minerals
Holdihgs, Ltd., scanning the
first published accounts and
directors’ report, will look in
vain for details of the two sub-
sidiaries’ mining activities or
figures relating to throughput,
estimated reserves or operating
costs.
Chairman R. A. Crowther
supplied some of this informa-
tion at the annual meeting last
October, but perhaps actions —
in this case dividends speak
louder than words, for the
market prices the f.-p. ss. shares
at 285., cum div., a 40 p.c.
interim (payable in March)
following the initial 25 p.c. tax-
free distribution for the four
months to June 30 last.
Registered in February, 1956,
National Minerals Holdings ex-
changed 605,535 of its ss. shares
for the paid capital of National
Minerals, Ltd., and through that
co. acquired a controlling interest
in a second operating subsidiary,
Beach Mining (Australia) Pty.
Outside-shareholders’ interests in
Beach Mining were later
acquired by the issue of a further
4000 of the holding co.’s shares.
To enable Stock Exchange listing
121,107 shares were made
available to the public by the
co.’s original shareholders.
National Mining, Ltd., started
mining for rutile, zircon and
monazite in the Wickham (New-
castle, N.S.W.) area in 1949 and
in the 12 months to September,
’56, produced approximately
5500 tons of rutile and a similar
quantity of zircon. Beach
Mining, operating near Wollon-
gong (N.S.W.), was expected to
be producing 40 tons rutile and
40 tons of zircon per week by
the end of last November.
For the current financial year
(to June 30, ’57) a combined
output of 7620 tons rutile and
7240 tons zircon is anticipated,
which is stated to be “approxi-
mately” 25 p.c. above last term’s
figures and, at current prices,
would be worth something like
£730,000 f.o.b. Australian ports.
Last term a consolidated net
profit of £140,047 was claimed
by the co., of which £90,686 was
earned prior to the incorpora-
tion of National Minerals
Holdings. Depreciation and
amortisation was calculated at
£12,065 and £68,766 (including
£7750 for deferred tax) was
provided for taxation. The
profit was equal to 91.2 p.c.
on paid capital as it stood at the
end of the term, the 25 p.c. div.
requiring only £38,096.
The original (eases, it is
estimated, will provide another
eight to ten years’ work and the
directors say that “new reserves
have been purchased which will
ensure future operations for
many years to come.” As richer
deposits have dwindled new
equipment has been introduced
to handle the available low-
grade sands, and, with a high
production-rate, the co. claims
to have held costs to “approxi-
mately” the 1954 level. No
indication is given of actual
current working-costs.
Fixed assets (freeholds, beach
buildings and plant) are shown
in the consolidated accounts at
£72,702 and shares in other cos.
at £25,447. Current assets
(including bonds, deposits, etc.)
and debentures and mortgages
total £195,009, liabilities and
provisions totalling £131,094.
In the first three months of the
current term 1645 tons of rutile
and 1570 tons of zircon were
mined and sold under existing
contracts. New contracts cover-
ing the “major portion” of
the estimated 1957-60 production
provide for a higher payment
than that received in 1955 and
1956 and, presumably, give some
security to income for the next
four years.
It is possible that, eventually,
i utile may be displaced as the
main source of titanium, and
there are also indications that
supplies of the oxide will exceed
demand within the. next few
years. However, established
rutile-producers with long-term
contracts seem assured of healthy
profits for the next three or four
years at least.
United Uranium
FIRST dividend from the
proceeds of uranium-
mining in Australia may well go
to shareholders in Northern
Uranium Development, N.L.,
and Uranium Mines, N.L.
N.U.D. and Uranium Mines
each have a 50 p.c. holding in
United Uranium, N.L;, which
has been shipping pitchblende
from its Elsharana mine (N.T.)
to the U.S.A.
The declaration of a dividend
will be considered at the
annual meeting next April.


Women’s Letter
MELBOURNE
The “House Full” sigp was up at the
Tivoli Theatre for the opening of “The
Good, Old Days” revue, fresh from a
successful season in Sydney. Two artists
stopped the show —George Wallace and
Jenny Howard, who received prolonged
ovations. A family party, which com-
prised Cr. and Mrs. Leo Curtis, their
daughter Ann (who wore a scarlet
organza frock, full-skirted and made with
a scoop neckline) and their son Peter
were with Mr. and Mrs. Bill McGowan
and their son John. Mr. and-Mrs. George
Laurens had their daughter Diana with
them, and also in the party was Mrs.
Keith Fairley, with whom ballerina Edna
Busse, who is in the show, is staying.'
Back from their Portsea holiday, Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Lynch were in the
audience with their daughter Levida, and
Mr. and Mrs. Royden Honeyman were
also there. Mr. and Mrs. A. H. Griffiths
were present; she is a sister of Queenie
Paul, who also appears in the show.
Others noticed were Mrs. Charles
Davidson, wearing a lovely emerald-
green satin theatre-coat, and her daughter
Noelle ; Mrs. William Rowell, Mrs. W. B.
Faulkner and Mr. and Mrs. Frarfk
Nicholls.
* ☆ ☆' &
Dr. A. Watson officiated at the Toorak
Presbyterian church when Anne, second
daughter of Lady Murdoch, of Cruden
Farm, Langwarrin, and the late Sir Keith
Murdoch was married to Milan, only
son of Mrs. D. Kantor, of East Malvern,
and the late Dr. A. Kantor. An all-white
color-scheme was chosen by the bride—
a long-sleeved gown of white silk
organza, with a coronet of French-wax
orange-blossom holding her tulle veil.
She carried a small posy of flannel-
flowers.
The bride’s sister Janet was bridesmaid,
in a short Empire-line frock of white
French muslin. In her hair was a wreath
of gold rouleau and she carried .a posy
of pencil protea. The bride was given
away by her brother Rupert, and Bill
Kotzman was best man.
After the ceremony guests motored to
Langwarrin, where Lady Murdoch gave
a cocktail-party and dinner-reception in
a marquee decorated with native flowers,
on the lawn of Cruden Farm.
/
☆ * ■&
Another lovely bride was Janice
Elizabeth, youngest daughter of Sir
George and Lady Coles, of Lansell-road,
Toorak. For her wedding at Wesley
College Chapel, Jan chose a Princess-line
gown of white silk-taffeta made with a
V-neckline and elbow-length sleeves.
The very full skirt was encircled at knee-
length with a band of organza em-
broidered in- rhinestone and pearl. A
diamond tiara held the long tulle veil,
and she carried a bouquet of gardenias,
stephanotis and white roses.
The bride’s sister Judith (Mrs. J.
McLaughlin) was matron-of-honor, and
Mary Beechman bridesmaid ; their frocks
of pale-pink taffeta were short and made
on graceful Empire-lines, and in their
hair were- pink organza circlets. They
carried bouquets of pink and white roses.
The bridegroom, James Edward, eldest
son of Mr. E. D. Barry, of Hampton,
and the late Mrs. Barry, had Bill Hoffman
as best man and Barry Scott was grooms-
man.
At the reception at the Coleses’ home in
Toorak, guests sat at small pink-covered
tables set with tiny bowls of pink and
white flowers in a pink-lined marquee.
Lady Coles chose a graceful gown of
powder-blue chiffon, the bodice draped
and the skirt long and flowing. In her
hair she wore a matching swathed
coronet. Mrs. Barry (the ’groom’s step-
mother) chose an ensemble in mushroom-
pink. Among the guests were Mr. and
Mrs. Arthur Coles, she wearing a dove-
grey satin full-skirted short frock topped
with a gold-embroidered curvette, and
Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Coles, the latter in a
short beige gold-embroidered frock.
Mrs. Irwin Bright, the bride’s eldest sister,
flew out from England for the wedding ;
she wore a frock of hydrangea-blue silk-
shantung and topped it with a small pink
pillbox-hat, finished with veiling.
☆☆ ' ☆
Noted at the opening night of the
Union Theatre Repertory Company’s
production, “The Queen and the Rebels”:
Mrs. Massey Burnside, wearing a white
frock patterned in red polka-dots ;. Mrs.
Rupert Downes, who added a fine-wool
stole in lipstick-pink to her black frock,
with her daughter, Mrs. John Howse, of
Canberra, in gold-patterned white cotton ;
Mrs. Colin MacDonald, the Ewart
Chappies, Mr. and Mrs. Aubrey Gibson,
Mrs. Margaret Saker, Mrs. L. Parslowe,
Miss Gertrude Johnson, and Garnet
Carroll.
☆ ☆
Mary, daughter of Captain and Mrs.
Charles Parker, has chosen March 2 for
her marriage with artist Paul Fitzgerald
at Xavier College Chapel. The two
bridesmaids will be Mary’s twin sister
Susan and Maeve O’Collins. A pre-
wedding party will be given by Maeve
next Saturday, February 23, at the
Frankston home of her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Frank O’Collins.
Attractive Deirdre Neylon plays the
role of Olga, one of the sisters, in
Chekhov’s “The Three Sisters," now at
the Little Theatre, South Yarra, under
the direction of Irene Mitchell. This is
Deirdre’s first appearance on the stage
of the new theatre, although she played
many roles in the old St. Chad’s. Two
of her best roles were in “Bonaventure”
and “The River Line." Deirdre, who is
an active member of the English Speaking
Union, is a script-writer by profession.
She also has a flair for fashion arid is
always tastefully turned-out at first-
nights and at E.S.U. functions.
The annual theatrical garden-party in
aid of the Royal ,Women’s Hospital
Mothers’ Day Appeal will this year be
held on Sunday, March 3, in the Flag-
staff Gardens. The City Council will
arrange lighting for the canvas theatre,
which will seat a thousand 'people at
an afternoon and evening show. Gladys
Moncrieff will come specially from
Sydney to open the .function. She will
make her appearance with a pipe-band
escort and will drive round the gardens.
There’ll be refreshment-booths and all
kinds of amusements for the children.
Last year’s garden-party, organised by
Lady Tait and a large band of helpers,
was a huge success.
☆ ☆ ☆
Dreary and depressing, but well pro-
duced by Irene Mitchell, Chekhov’s “The
Three Sisters” drew a large audience- to
the Little Theatre on the opening night.
Mr. and Mrs. Massey Burnside were there,
as was Mrs. Rupert Downes. Also noticed
were Mr. and Mrs. W. McKechnie, Mrs.
Dolya Ribush, Mr. and Mrs. Len Voss
Smith, Mr. and Mrs. D. Worrall (their
son John played the role of Fyodor),
Nonie Sheehan and Peggy Marks.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Victorian branch of Red Cross
will benefit from the exhibition of Paton
and Baldwin hand-knitted garments for
autumn and winter which were shown in
the Lower Town Hall. Intended for
knitting while viewing television were
several smart garments, among them a
design which needed little concentration
—a blue-and-white-striped sleeveless
jumper with a square neckline and tiny
hip-pockets. In fact, all the designs were
in straightforward knitting. They in-
cluded such names as Double Image,
Good Reception, Clear View and
Camera-wise. An unusual and attractive
feature of several smart jumpers, which
showed the new longer line, was the Fair
Isle yoke in toning colors. Hip-length
jackets, in plain, casual designs, were
made in wool which gave a tweedy look.
The Oriental trend was seen with slits at
the side-seam. New colors which this
firm is sponsoring include Monaco-
pink, circus-red, sparkling-coral and
Paris-blue. Two-tones will cheer the
winter scene. An example is a chocolate
jumper with daffodil sleeves.
SYDNEY
A livening tempo in the city, as well as
a lowered temperature and some rain, has
reminded all that the winter season is
not far off. Talk around town ranges
from the coming fashions to the 61
students in Arts I English who passed
when their papers were re-assessed ; to
the charming d’Erlangers (who were
given a reception by Qantas during the
week); and to all the new first-born
babes whose coming blest several well-
known young couples during the past
week. ' v
The lan Curlewis couple (she was
Beverley Friend) called their little girl
Amanda, the Dale Turnbulls chose Luke
for their son. Mrs. Turnbull was formerly
Virginia Fuller. The Robert Ennevers’
baby is David John. His mother was
Ann Barnett. From Melbourne comes
the news of the birth of a son to the
Baillieu Myqrs (she was Sara Hordern,
of Sydney).
• ☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting wedding during the
week was that of tennis champion Shirley
Fry to Karl Irvin, jnr. Shirley, who won
the Wimbledon, American National and
Australian National women’s champion-
ships last year, is the younger daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Lester Fry, of Akron,
Ohio. Her husband, who is a business-
man, is the only son of Dr. and Mrs.
Karl Irvin, sen., of Polo, Illinois, The
wedding took place at the Rose Bay
Methodist church and the bride was
given away by well-known tennis identity
Cliff Sproule. She wore a short dress of
white faille and guipure-lace and carried
a Victorian posy of white flowers. Her
matron-of-honor was Mrs. Martin
(Melbourne) and the best man was Mr.
Deke Coleman. Mr. and Mrs. Irwin
intend to make their home in Australia
for the next few years.
Margot Joule is the pretty girl in the
picture. The only daughter of the
L. H. Joules, of Mosman, her engage-
merit was recently announced to Michael
Biddulph, who is the younger son of the
L. Biddulphs, of Canowindra. Margot’s
interests are in commercial art, Michael’s
in law. After their marriage they plan
to live in Sydney. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
The Consul-General for France,/ M.
Jeah de Montousse, made an innovation
in opening speeches by singing a-snatch
of a French song .at the opening of the
Lamotte parade of autumn and winter
hats last Wednesday.
By the way, M. de Montousse,
Madame de Montousse and their three
children leave at the end of June for
France (on home-leave). The parade,
which donates its proceeds to the Peter
Pan Kindergarten, was attended by a
smart crowd and made lively by the hats,
the TV, the lights, the champagne and
M. de Montousse’s little song.
Hats are built high this season, and
the jersey-turban will probably prove the
most popular. Pillbdxes, elaborate
beret-shapes and the fez are also in the
running. Colors are chiefly champagne,
black-and-white, ‘ cocoa, caramel and
beige.
Leaving for New Zealand by the Wan-
ganella at the end of the month are Mr.
and Mrs. Carl Wilson. For Mr. Wilson,
a New Zealander, this will be his first
trip home since the war, and for Mrs.
Wilson, who will be making her first
visit, it will register the 41st country she
has seetl. They intend to stay from three
to four weeks, and wjll journey from
Auckland to Wellington and Christchurch.
☆ ft ☆
“The Summer of the 17th Doll” came
back to the Elizabethan for its third
session and drew a large house on a
Monday night, which is a very good sign.
Audience-reaction was excellent; every-
body seemed to enjoy the play very much.
Saw Mrs. Frank McGrath there (she is
poet Amy Cumpston) with actress
Patricia Kennedy, who a couple of nights
later was heard as Cleopatra in the
A.B.C.’s production of “Antony and
Cleopatra.”
The audience, though enthusiastic, was
fairly workaday in appearance. $ An
exotic air was lent, however, by singer
Virginia Paris, who came to Sydney with
“South Pacific” and stayed for five years.
She will leave us shortly, but first 'She
will, give a concert in the Town Hall on
March 2 (operatic arias, lieder, and so
on). Another first-nighter who caught
the eye was Diana Gregory, elegant as
ever. She has just signed a TV contract,
she confided, as a member of a panel
which guesses what sort of work people
do.
Also saw at the opening the new head-
master of Knox College, Dr. T. Ross
McKenzie, with Mrs. McKenzie, who was
closely associated with Brisbane’s Twelfth
Night Theatre before coming to Sydney.
Mrs. McKenzie cast a knowledgeable
Queenslander’s eye at the production,
and said that Ray Lawler’s interpretation
was excellent: “He even walks like a
canecutter.” The McKenzies were in Miss
Margaret Gillespie’s party.
Apropos of Knox College, its fairly
new “old boy” Reginald Livermore
seems to be headed for the limelight in
the theatrical world. Recently seen in
the Independent’s amusing “You Never
Can Tell” (as one of the “terrible twins”),
he stars in their new production, James
Bridie’s “Tobias and the Angel,” due to
open tonight, Wednesday 20th.
w ☆ ☆
Fashion-showing by Robert White
during the week confirmed the suspicion,
already strongly felt, that wool-jersey is
to be the fabric this winter. The bloused-
back is also a persistent trend, while a
pretty little feature of the new season’s
clothes is the fur that appears as trim-
ming here and there—mink-cuffs on a
brocade after-five dress, for instance.
Stra'ngely enough, the price is not beyond
most of us. Mink for the masses must
be the new idea.
☆ ☆ ☆
Statistics are always saying things, and
the: latest thing they have said is that
women are only air-minded at certain
times of the year, whereas men fly by
night and day all through the year. To
correct this phenomenon, T.A.A. have
engaged a charming young lady named
Ann Travaire to teach women how to
fly (by plane) and like it. Ann is stationed
in Melbourne for three months of the
year, but as she herself flies through the
air with the greatest of ease, women’s
clubs in Sydney or any other Australian
capital may have the privilege of a talk
by her on where to visit (illustrated by
color-slides), what to wear, what to pack,
how the children can be cared for, etc.
Clubs that would like her to speak at one
of their meetings (and who wouldn’t?)
have only to get in touch with T.A.A.
CANBERRA
A cocktail-party was given at the
Embassy by the Ambassador for
Indonesia, Dr. A. Y. Helmi, and Madame
Helmi, to farewell the second-secretary,
Mr. B. S. Budhyman, and his wife, who
will shortly return to their homeland after
a term in Canberra.
Madame Helmi wore a midnight-blue
chiffon gown embossed in beaten silver.
Captain Luang Pradiyat Navayudh,
attache at the Royal Thai Embassy, was
among the guests with his two attractive
daughters ; also Mr. and Mrs. B. A.
Übani; the new first-secretary to the
German Embassy, Dr. G. Blank, and
Mrs. Blank, with their daughter; Mr.
W. A. McLaren, his wife wearing a smart
little black-and-white hat with her black
frock ; and Miss Suzuki, daughter of the
Japanese Ambassador, wearing a lovely
kimono in gold and muted-color
brocade.


DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
of high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will* reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing. Agents—*
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE • Vardon Price Ltd.
PERTH • Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Between
Ourselves
&
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Missing Friend
TO RAYMOND GEORGE CHAPMAN
(formerly known as RAYMOND
PIZARRO) formerly of Culcaim in the
State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife IRENE LOUISA CHAPMAN
(formerly known as IRENE LOUISA
PIZARRO) has instituted proceedings
against you for dissolution of her
marriage to you on the ground of deser-
tion and FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
unless you enter an appearance in the
Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne on or before the sth
day of April 1957 and file an Answer in
the said office on or before the 15th day
of April 1957 the cause may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered
to pay costs.—COLTMAN WYATT &
ANDERSON, of 456 Little Collins Street,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice#
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN SIDNEY FRANCIS COOKSEY
late of 120 Windsor Street Paddington.—
TAKE- NOTICE that EDNA MAE
COOKSEY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3728 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 19th April 1957 and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge
from D. G. STUART. Solicitor, 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEVIN EDWIN BALFOUR GEE late
of 23 Dora Street East Orange in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that BETTY DOREEN GEE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2616 of
1956 on the grounds of your adultery with
FRANCES ALDERTON If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce'Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 24th day of April
1957 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from DENSLEY & DOWN-
ING, Solicitors, of 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO REX GEORGE POPE formerly of 89
Grand Parade Brighton-le-Sands. —TAKE
NOTICE that CORAL MARIE POPE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 446 of
1967 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney by 31st
May 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from
MARSHALL, MARKS, DEZARNAULDS
& JONES, Solicitors, 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ANN TERESA HUNT late of Stewart
/Street Seymour Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that NEVILLE CLYDE HUNT has filed a
Petition for Divorce ’No. 3819 of 1956 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for 'three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 24th day of April 1957 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. ROBERTSON PARKHILL
ROFE & MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt
Street, Sydney, in the State of New South
Wales. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
5<S
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
JOHNNIE
WALKER
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.151.12
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Two Operas
The idea on which “The Secret
of Susanna” is based is very
slight, but, decorated with Wolf-
Ferrari’s music, and as per-
formed by the Melbourne
National Theatre, it makes a
pleasant and amusing two-hours’
entertainment.
Susanna’s secret is an addic-
tion to smoking, and the moment
her husband, the count, leaves
his palace she lights up a gasper.
The count associates the odor
with an unknown lover, and
gives himself a lot of unnecessary
exercise spying on her. Having
wrecked his home he heads off
for the club, but stays to watch
his faithless lady through the
window, thus discovering the
real nature of his rival. The
reconciliation provides occasion
for a passionate duet, to which
Anne Van Ommen, as the
secret smoker, and William
Howard, as the husband who
has been cuckolded by a gasper,
gave beautiful expression.
“La Serve Padrone,” the
curtain-raiser, is a trifle more
robust in its story—as is to be
expected, since it was written
150 years ago by Pergolesi, who
poured into his short life of 26
years almost as much music as
Mozart. The theme is Überto’s
jealousy of his maid Serpina,
but it has sufficient justification
to make an exciting comic-
opera. Donald Solomon sang
and acted the part of Überfo
with considerable distinction,
and Sonja Guss made Serpina
a vital little person.
❖ ❖
“The Impresario”
Mozart’s one-act opera buffa,
presented by the Sydney Opera
Group for the Legion Music
Club, is one of those curiosities.
A product of his mature period
—it was written in the same
year as “The Marriage of
Figaro”—its text was revised
many times until Schneider and
Taubert more-or-less stabilised
it, in 1861, with a version which
used Mozart him self, his
mountebank-librettist Schicke-
nader, and one Phillip (a speakj
ing part), as well as the two
coloratura - sopranos who s e
jealousy as to which one will
have the coveted prima-donna
role in “The Magic Flute” (which
had yet to be written) forms the
core of the slight plot.
The Opera Group’s production
used only three characters.
Rae Candy and Denise
Thompson were the rivals, and,
as well as giving spirited
accounts of the temperamental
side of it, they sang with style,
assurance, good tone and facile
flexibility. Robert Tasman-
Smith, whose baritone, though
short on resonance, is easily pro-
duced and used with judgment,
employed the most polished
manners, the most adroit tact and
no little.guile in diverting the
storm from his head.
Katherine Dunham
Katherine Dunham and her
dancers are back at Sydney
Tiv. with a new programme —
whirling brown and golden flesh,
frilled petticoats, heavy silks,
sensuous colors and drumming
rhythms.
Whether in bare feet or
diamente heels, Miss - Dunham
has an expressive ability that is
all her own. She and her
company making every motion
and gesture a physical pang, so
that everything they do has an
unrehearsed quality—the “walk-
ing dead” in “L’Ag’ya” could not
be more convincing if they
believed it themselves.
The new programme includes
a South Seas legend, “Rara
Tonga,” and a Cuban suite with
an amusing rhumba by Lucille
Ellis, Judith Patterson and
Janette Liddell, and two Cuban
street-scenes, one of which is
fascinating in its fear and
trembling uncertainty.
The last section, running
through American dance-music
from the turn of the century to
the Mambo, includes an arresting
“dance-hall encounter” by
Katherine Dunham and Vanoye
Aikens —a satirical comment on
the blues, danced with a delicate
exaggeration that escapes being
burlesque, to music by Floyd
Smith, with Gershwin’s “Rhap-
sody” just around the corner.
* <♦
Operatic Night
In the concert devoted to
operatic excerpts put on by the
Cammeray (Sydney) Music
Group lyric-soprano Valerie
Ryan, whose voice has a pleas-
ing quality over her entire gamut
and unusually good low notes,
sang “Alone and Abandoned”
and “The Soft Silken Curtains,”
both from “Manon Lescaut,”
effortlessly and in pure tone.
Mary Blake, whose mezzo-
contralto can now venture with
authority into mezzo-soprano
territory, gave enchanting ver-
sions of two airs from Offen-
bach’s “La Pericole,” and
Stewart Harvey, the New
Zealand baritone, called on big
reserves of power and brilliant
resonance to wring full dramatic
value from the great “Credo”
from “Otello.”
Douglas Parnell, singing in
his best form —good by any
standards—brought a sombre
mellowness to his rendering of
the splendid “O Isis and Osiris”
from “The Magic Flute,” and his
ringing “Toreador’s Song”
nearly blistered the paintwork.
The melodious “Give Me Thy
Hand,” from “Don Giovanni,”
was firmly sung by Valerie
Ryan and Stewart Harvey.
“Our Town”
After running its allotted
course at the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne, this
20-year-old effort of Thornton
Wilder had to be given additional
performances in response to
imperious public This
was probably as much a tribute
to the sensitive production of
the U.T. Repertory Company as
to the delicate beauty of the
play about the present and after
life of the inhabitants of an
American small town.
Wilder’s unusual style was
well-handled by both cast and
producer. Lighting was ordinary
except in the last scene by the
graveside, when it was excellent;
and the sets were simple, but
effective. Neil Fitzpatrick, as
George Gibbs ; Wyn Roberts, as
Dr. Gibbs; Patricia Connolly,
as Emily Webb ; Pamela
Greenall, as Mrs. Gibbs; and
Joan Harris, as Mrs. Webb, were
the best of a good lot. ,
* * *:•< ■
Waterioo-road Extravaganza
[From Herbert Holman, lionclon]
1 The Old Vic, after several
months of living on its reputa-
tion, is now in high and
characteristic fettle, thanks to
Michael Langham’s outrageously
“free” adaptation of “The Two
Gentlemen of Verona,” in which
the words, if little else, are by
Shakspeare.
Tanya Moiseiwitsch provides
a luxuriant setting and Regency
costumes, with the men in tall
hats and dandyish tail-coats and
the women ip cfinoline-type
dresses and riding-habits. Every
imaginative trick, from comic
“business” to a cameo of Old
Vienna, is brought out of the
bag to cover up the play’s inade-
quacy. It is not, for example,
unfitting for the Duke of Milan
to be a monocled admiral, but
some textual conflict Occurs when
a brigand announces the escape
of Sir Eglamour, portrayed as an
arthritic old masher, with the
words, “being nimblefooted, he
hath outrun us.”
No matter. The evening is a
merry one, and the first part is
elegant and romantic. If the
second half is inhibited by the
complexities of the plot, by
Proteus’s un gentlemanly
treachery and by yet another
mix-up involving boys’ clothing
and the exchange of rings, there
is the novelty, always • inexplic-
able, of an unschooled dmateur
stealing the show. On this
occasion it is Duff, a Labrador,
an actor having command of
something that many celebrated
contemporaries* must envy—un-
selfconsciousness and perfect
relaxation.
Since the whole affair is an
engaging diversion, it is in keep-
ing to mention that the city of
Adelaide may fairly claim a large
share of the credit. Robert Help-
mann’s grimacing Launce is
good comedy and selfless, tod,
for he is playing the whole time
against Duff’s Crab. And Keith
Michell’s manly elegance as
Proteus is sheer classical purity.
He speaks the verse well and is
quite without mannerisms. After
a long and comprehensive
apprenticeship to his art he is
now, at 30, right up to the
master roles and may well
become another Oliyier, whom
he resembles.
Artbursts
Showing tapestry-pictures at
the Kozminsky Galleries, Mel-
bourne, Robert Peters first paints
his canvases with oils and then
stitches them in colored wools,
which is much the same method
as our grandmothers used. Mr.
Peters, however, has some skill
as a painter, as well as a
seamster, and his landscapes are
often very pleasant, much more
so than his historical pictures,
which lack drawing.
♦X* *x* tgt
Charles Blackman’s 40-odd
illustrations for Alice in Wonder-
land, showing at the Gallery of
Contemporary Art in Mel-
bourne, are large daubs of crude
color bearing nq affinity to the
drawings with which Sir John
Tenniel decorated the first
edition of Lewis Carroll s
masterpiece of nonsense. Black-
man’s illustrations resemble more
Sidney Nolan’s attempt to reduce
the Ned Kelly story to the
intellectual level of the eight-
year-old ; just as Ned figures as
an expressionless and ineffectual
dummy, so Alice appears in Mr.
Blackman’s series as a stuffed
doll with the large, mournful
eyes of Mr. Blackman’s former
schoolgirls.
Talkies
“The Ambassador’s Daughter”
(Sydney Mayfair): This brisk,
witty comedy centres on a
campaign of a U.S. Senator
visiting Paris to have the capital
placed out of bounds to Ameri-
can troops for their own —and
the French people’s —good. The
U.S. Ambassador (E dwa r d
Arnold), his daughter (Olivia de
Havilland) and their Lieut.-
General friend line-up against
the Senator (Adolphe Menjou),
the daughter offering herself as
a guinea-pig to test a case. The
fun starts when a sergeant,
allotted to her as escort and
unaware of her identity, involves
her in a series of contretemps.
Acting is excellent all round,
with a particularly polished per-
formance from Menjou. Tossed"
in for good measure is a fair slab
of “Swan Lake,” danced at the
Paris Opera.
“Loser Takes All” (Sydney
Embassy): A brittle English
comedy, which argues that a
young marriage stands more
chance of being wrecked on the
shoals of champagne-and-
caviare than on bread-rolls-and-
coffee. It has too much padding,
but there is a fair quota of
laughs and the dialogue is good.
Rossano Brazzi and Glynis
Johns, as a pair of honey-
mooners who are living on a
shoestring untjil he, a math-
ematical wizard, works a
roulette-breaking system, make
a good romantic team. ( Robert
Morley etches-in a neat por-
trayal of a tycoon with a lordly
indifference to everybody’s feel-
ings but his own.
“The Leather Saint” (Sydney
Capitol): About a handsome
young cleric (John Derek), who,
to raise funds for a good cause,
dons the gloves and becomes a
sensationally successful pug.
His opponents, all tough pros.,
obligingly hold their hands down
near their knees so that his
uppercuts won’t be wasted. Paul
Douglas, as his manager, turns
in some brisk work.


Unde Reimer
by
E. O. SCHLUNKE
WHEN my grandmother
had reached an age
when she spent a good
deal of her time sitting
in an armchair, one of her
favorite occupations was search-
ing her Bible for references to
Uncle Reimer.
We always knew when she’d
found one by the triumphant
noises she made before she
became articulate. Then she’d
look gloatingly over the tops of
her small gold-rimmed glasses '
at us, meanwhile keeping a care-
ful finger on the place, and say
in her own scrambling manner
of speaking English.
“It stands here, in ten chapter
Proverbs. . „
Then down at the page again
while she translated it slowly
from the German.
“A man who —what winks
with his eyes has not in him the
truth, and is not for my
kingdom fit.”
She’d look up smartly then,
with a self-satisfied, down-
curving smile, and add, “Your
Uncle Reimer always winks with
his eyes.”
Each time she was certain
that her colossal evidence could
not fail to damn Uncle Reimer
in our estimation; and each
time she was wrong.
TTNCLE Reimer was a
produce-merchant and a
farm-machinery agent when I
first began to appreciate him.
It was an unusual combina-
tion of lines for those days, but
one which Uncle’ Reimer
exploited relentlessly, as he was
fond of expounding to us with
many of his famous winks.
“Ha, those mingy farmers,
how they hate to spend their
money even when they have
plenty. But just let them bring
a load of wheat or oats for me ;
and see if they take any of their
money home with them! ”
He’d sit back, his eyes gleam-
ing with- high good-humor as he
contemplated his many
triumphs.
“Let them think they’ve got
the best of me ; that’s the way I
get at the sly ones. Let them
push me up tuppence or three-
pence a bushel for their produce
on condition that they buy a
binder or a chaffcutter; what
they don’t know is that I’ve
raised the price of the implement
as soon as I see them come in the
door.”
vSalesmanship was art and
religion to Uncle Reimer but to
Grandmother it was nothing but
lies and deceit. Gleanings from
my parents’ conversation gave
me the impression that her dis-
approval of Uncle Reimer began
with his showing insufficient
respect for her when she became
his mother-in-law, though she
never ceased to charge it to his
various wickednesses, such as
his failure to go to church;
“forsaking the assembling of
himself together,” as she put it.
The most flagrant of his
offences, however, lay in the
number of his wives ; particu-
larly in the convenience with
which each one died at a vstage
which, in retrospect, seemed
significant to those inclined to
suspicion. /
In his enterprising career
Uncle Reimer went through
varied phases ; first the success-
ful farmer when he was married
to Aunt Emma, a good indus-
trious woman and competent
housekeeper; then the local
merchant when it was Aunt
Hilda; then the city man with
his branch-firms throughout the
country. At this stage he had'
Aunt Alice, and if one looked
for a charitable reason for-her
untimely death it could be
blamed on to the crowds of
country friends who always
filled their large double-storied
house at Strathfield.
By this time he had reached
an age and an affluence when it
was generally considered that
he should spend the rest of his
life as a more or less retired
widower. But the next thing we
knew he’d started a new career'
as a company-promoter; the
wife he acquired at this stage
was as opulent as his business ;
the country friends who had
previously filled his house retired
abashed after one look at her.
During this period my grand-
mother was searching frantically
for quotations like “a camel
can easier go through a needle
his eye, than a rich man squeeze
into heaven,” and “proudness
goes in front of a fall.”
SUDDENLY there was a
serious recession in the busi-
ness world, and Uncle Reimer,
along with a great number of
other men more experienced in
the art of making profits from
other peopled money, was
ruined.
It was no trouble for Grand-
mother to find the place in her
book where it was all foretold.
We didn’t hear from him for
some time ; then my father had
a letter to say that he had a
dairyfarm on the South Coast.
He had married again; the
opulent woman who had been
travelling abroad at the time of
his crash Ijad been killed in a
car-accident at Monte Carlo.
“Ah, well,” Grandmother com-
mented magnanimously, “that’s
one wife’s death he won’t have
to answer on the day of judg-
ment.”
My mother shed tears over the
letter.
“He’s an old man now,” she
said pathetically ; “he must find
it terribly hard getting up early
each morning and milking a lot
of cows.”
“I can’t imagine him milking
cows,” said my father, who, like
all the Riverina wheat- and
sheep-men, had a very low
opinion of dairyfarms.
I couldn’t either. He had
been a magnificent character to
me with his great houses, his
cars, his stylish clothes, his
office full of respectful under-
lings, his jovial and command-
ing presence. My parents dis-
cussed Uncle Reimer’s situation
in indistinct murmurs long after
they had gone to bed, and in
the morning they had reached
the exciting decision to send
me down to his place.
“To give him a bit of a hand
until he gets on his feet,” said
my father.
I was so eager to go that
translated the
story of the prodigal son as a
warning.
“He might feed you on the
shells that the pigs eat,” she
suggested; “they always have
pigs on dairyfarms.”
Following a night in the
train I spent the day travelling
down the South Coast, my head
stuck out of the\ window most
of the time to see what a dairy-
farm looked like. The beauty
of the summer greenness
impressed me as being some sort
of compensation for having to
milk cows ; While lush pastures,
neat, tidy buildings and white-
painted forage-silos on some
properties made me feel that it
wouldn’t be too bad if Uncle
Reimer had one like that.
But instead of being on the
fertile flats, Uncle’s place was a
long way up the mountains, over
an incredibly steep and rough
road that rattled and banged
the empty cans on the milk-
lorry so much that I thought
they could never be trusted to
hold milk again. Up and up we
went, with the truck-engine
roaring so continuously in low
gear that I expected it to blow
up at any moment.
I was awed by the spectacular
gullies dropping sheer for
hundreds of feet, full of exotic
seeming growth of raia-forest
type ; but I soon formed a poor
opinion of the mountain dairy-
farmers who came to meet the
lorry at their gates. They all
wore heavy rubber knee-boots
which forced upon them a slow
laborious gait, and their minds
seemed to move at the same rate
as their legs.
All stared at me with that
resentful and antagonistic look
which cattle get when a strange
animal is introduced into the
herd. Thinking that it would
prejudice them in my favor I
told several of them that I was
going to stay in their district
with my uncle; but the name
which had made bank-managers’
and company-directors’ doors
fly open in welcome had no
such effect on the dairyfarmers.
Some became significantly
silent, while others remarked
most vindictively about “city
smarties who thought they
could show real farmers their
own business.”
The farms, as far as I could
see, were small areas of meagre
natural grass cut out of the
dense scrub; the houses looked
like the photographs I had seen
of the dwellings my pioneering
grandparents had first erected;
they looked as if they had been
built just as long ago, too, but
as though all enterprise had
ceased and the farms had
remained stagnant, enclosed and
confined by the forest, isolated
by the hazardous mountain
road, their owners held prisoner
by the daily routine of the
morning and the evening milk-
ing that never allowed them to
get away and mix with the
people outside.
I began to feel very sorry for
my uncle.
It wasn’t quite so bad at my
uncle’s place. He lived at the
entrance to a valley of some
extent, most of which was
cleared and occupied by half-a-
dozen farmers, some of whose
homes were visible from his
farm. It didn’t look quite as
primitive as the clearings in the
bush, but the grass was little
better and the cows would have
needed to be as agile as antelopes
to reach all of it on the crazily-
tilted slopes.
Uncle Reimer met me at the
gate in a Buick which he had
apparently saved from the
wreck. I was honored that he
should have driven in to meet
me, until I found that he had a
trailer attached to it to carry
his milk-cans. Still, that was a
big improvement on the other
farmers with their wheelbarrows
or their one-horse sledges made
from forked tree-trunks. He
wasn’t wearing rubber knee-
boots, but was dressed in the
style of a busy country gentle-
man who wasn’t above lending a
hand with the work. He looked
brisk and animated.
“Well, my boy,” he said, giving
me a robust handshake and
a twinkling smile, “so you’ve
come to join me in my mountain
health-resort. Have you been
sick, or something?”
He grinned at my embarrass-
ment, obviously knowing that I
had been expecting am aged,
overburdened and broken man;
then he drove me to a present-
able kind of country home.
“I’m told the man who built
it,” he informed me, “owned the
whole valley at the time. He
had big ideas about mass-pro-
ducing milk, but he died, poor
fellow.”
Uncle sounded quite sympa-
thetic, visualising, no doubt, a
man after his own heart. Inside,
the house was very comfortable;
it rather surprised me to find how
much a ruined businessman
could salvage. - His latest wife
was so like his original farm-
wife, Aunt Emma, that an
absurd idea kept recurring to me
that it was the same person,
resurrected when he needed her,
or taken out of cold-storage.
She provided exactly the same
sort of meal as I had enjoyed at
Aunt Emma’s.
A FTER dinner my uncle took
me out to have a look
around. It was dusk by now
and very pleasant with a cool
sea-breeze making a subdued
roaring in the trees on the
mountaintop high above us.
“The best time of the day,
here,” said Uncle Reimer, “but
all my neighbors are in bed.
Very backward people they are.
They tried to stop me using my
milking-machines. As soon aS


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States. Agencies in all Country Centres.
9$
'Si
fm
s&V,
X
i\
MM cj
'~V>
i-K
■X
R &
1899 and all that...
Having come into possession of the historic 1899 Singer Power,. Wheel, its ; somewhat
adventuresome modern-day owner was eager to test it out on the road.
But first there was this problem: what kind of lubricant was needed for the If-h.p.,
four-stroke engine incorporated in the rear wheel? And so he wrote to the makers of
Castrol, seeking expert advice.
To obtain full details of the vintage vehicle, Castrol Headquarters found it necessary to
obtain of the original patent. This, together with notes made on a similar
machine at the British Science Museum, enabled a specification of the exact grade of
Castrol needed, to ..lubricate and protect the precious Power Wheel to be made.
The point is, of course, that when information is wanted about lubrication the specialists
are the logical people to ask. It is equally logical that Castrol motor oil, the product of
specialists in lubrication, is the best oil for your car.
'old
tece tri/
I start my engine, they say, their
cows stop giving down their
milk. They were so hostile
that I had trouble in getting
anyone to help me with the
cows.” .
Then, after I had exclaimed
with delight over the little clear
cold streams we found meander-
ing through the grass, he said
brightly,
“You like it up here, don’t
you? What about persuading
your family to buy this place?
I don’t expect to be staying here
very long. I’ve got something
big coming up.”
Next morning at breakfast I
found that Uncle Reimer had
another man in his establish-
ment beside his dairy-hand ; a
man just as surprising to find on
a dairyfarm as Uncle Reimer.
To me he looked rather like a
superior type of schoolteacher ;
he was thin and intellectual,
wearing thick-lensed, rimless
glasses through which he read a
book as he ate his meal absently
and inattentively. When I
contrived a look, I was
impressed to find it was a very
advanced study in chemistry
with formulae that stretched in
bewildering complications right
across a page.
When later I was helping my
uncle to drive the cows out to
a new pasture he told me about
McGregor.
“He’s a very clever man,” he
said. “A very clever man. He
would have made a fortune for
me if the Government hadn't
interfered. One of my com-
panies was making petrol from
straw under his direction, but
because, chemically speaking, it
was a form of alcohol, they
made us pay excise duty on it.
But now I’ve got him working
on a project that will soon show
your grandmother that I’m not
finished yet. Don’t say a word
about it though; it’s got to be
kept dead secret.”
The mere mention of my
grandmother made, me see her
inquisitive nose and her prying
eyes, condemning in advance
anything Uncle Reimer did. Not
that I wasn’t immensely curious
myself. I tried to find out some-
thing by spying on McGregor.
TTE spent most of his time in a
locked shed beside the
dairy. In one section he had a
large boiler with pipes running
to vats and a lot of compli-
cated apparatus. For his raw
material he apparently used
freshly-cut green grass.
I immediately suspected that
he was at his distilling again,
only not power-alcohol this
time but moonshine liquor;
hence the secrecy, hence the
hide-out in the wild, hills; a
brilliant man, like my uncle,
frustrated by circumstances,' I
believed, might be capable of
such desperate expedients.
Then, in another part of the
shed, carefully walled-off and so
well-protected from outside
observation that I had to prise
a couple of overlapping sheets
of iron apart to get a view, I
discovered 3} something which
altered my theories. It was a
cow with a sort of howdah on
her back in which was housed
the kind of circuit of flasks and
tubes which we used to set up in
our high-school laboratory to
bring about a chemical change.
Only much more intricate.
From the contrivance two
rubber tubes emerged 'to dis-
appear .through a hole in the
cow’s side into its interior.
The cow didn’t look very happy.
Presently I saw McGregor
enter through a communicating
door. He drew a little milk
from the cow’s udder, took
samples from various flasks and
beakers.
TURNING away from my
spyhole I looked straight
into the face of an uncouth
character in rubber boots and
the milk-stained clothes of a
dairyman. From the look of
startled amazement in his eyes
I knew that he had been sharing
my spyhole ; the emotions dis-
played on his face showed him.
to be only a few generations
removed from witch-hunters.
He was poised to dash madly
down the valley shouting his dis-
covery to everybody. Very
quickly I responded to the need
to protect my uncle.
“He’s a very clever vet.,” I
said, trying to make it sound
commonplace. “He’s working
on a cure for pleuro-pneumonia
in cattle.”
The man’s expression
gradually changed to one of
craftiness and suspicion, which
I decided must be normal for
him. I tried to anticipate the
awkward question I could see
formulating in his head.
“Don’t say a word about it to
anyone,” I warned him in an
urgent whisper. “It’s a top-secret
investigation. No one must hear
it’s going on, or it will be
stopped.”
I watched his face for signs of
credulity, but, if anything, his
craftiness increased.
“Why should it be kept a
secret if it’s a cure for a disease?”
he asked, taking a nasty pleasure
in tripping me.
“He won’t tell me,” I said,
“but I suspect that the R.S.P.C.A.
is the trouble. They’d have him
prosecuted for cruelty to animals.
That cow in there, you see.”
The man looked scornful. He
obviously knew a great deal more
about the cruelties practised on
dairy-cattle than I' did. Then
he narrowed his eyes cunningly.
“I know what it might be,”
he declared; “it’s the cow-
medicine firms that are after him.
They don’t want anyone to find
a cure for pleuro. All they want
is to keep on making us buy their
rotten remedies.”
“You’re right; that must be
it,” I said heartily.
But, as if he had drawn some
conclusion from my relief, he
added, full of suspicion, “I
might be right, and I might
be wrong. You never know
where you are with these city-
smarties.”
It annoyed me to have him
speak so sneeringiy of Uncle
Reimer, so I said, as sarcastically
as I could, “I suppose you came
over to see my uncle.”
“I’ll see your uncle when and
where I’m ready,” he said,
bumptiously threatening; then
he floundered off in his knee-
boots.
“nPHAT would be Ferris,”
-*• Uncle Reimer said when I
told him about the intruder.
“He’s the most hostile and
suspicious of them all. Just as
well he’s so ignorant; he’ll
never be able to guess what
we’re doing; though we’d be in
for plenty trouble if he did.”
The next day Uncle and I
discovered Ferris spying again;
he was very insolent when
ordered off the property.
“You’ll be sorry you did this.
You can’t insult me and get away
with it. I know what you’re up
to in there ; and I know what
I’m going to do about it. You
just wait.”
“He’s quite childish,” Uncle
told me. “A fellow as stupid as
that couldn’t do us any harm.”
But he looked a bit worried.
“I’d better tell you what we’re
doing, in case we need your help.
Better come inside the house
in case we’re overheard.”
He took me into his office,
made sure my aunt was engaged
in the kitchen, then, seated at his
desk, addressed me with some of
his old-time grandeur.
“You don’t need to be dairy-
farming long,” he said, “before
you are forced to the conclusion
that it’s not a fit occupation for
a civilised man. What is a dairy-
farmer but a parasite on a cow,
taking the milk that rightly
belongs to the calf he has
slaughtered or sold; he’s like
the cattle-tick, only worse,
because he takes a lot more than
he needs to satisfy his appetite.”
This sounded like paft of a
long-premeditated speech with
which he intended to launch his
new product on to an astonished
world.
“Anyone travelling through
our South Coast dairying dis-
tricts,” he went 'on, still treating
me as a large audience, “will
have noticed how many of our
dairymen are elderly. You
hardly ever see any young men
or girls. Do you kno\y why?
They’ve all left to find work
somewhere else; in the iron-
works at Port Kembla, or as
nurses in hospitals, or on tele-
phone-exchanges ; anything to
get away from dairyfarms. In
fact, the time is in sight when
there’ll be nobody left to milk
cows.” $
“It could happen,” I inter-
jected. “It would bd a serious
problem.”
Uncle Reimer smiled.
“That’s the problem McGregor
and I are out to solve. To
produce milk without having to
milk cows.”
“Artificial milk?” I said,
astonished.
“No, real milk made from
green grass, but not contami-
nated by unhygienic cows and
dairyfarmers.”
“I see,” I said slowly. “Now
I understand why you have to
keep it secret from the dairy-
farmers. They’d all be ruined.”
“They wouldn’t stop at
murder * r especially these fellows
in the hills,” said Uncle Reimer.
“But you must agree that we
can’t halt the progress of science
to keep men like that in their
jobs.”
“You certainly can’t,” I said,
“but don’t you think you ought
to let me have a rifle to keep the
spies away; they might attack
us in force any day,”
Uncle smiled .at my Treasure
Island outlook.
“It might be a good idea.
Meanwhile, McGregor is follow-
ing every step of the cow’s
method of making milk and
duplicating it by machine.
There’s only one step left and
we’ll have all the information \ye
need. When we’ve got that we’ll
join all the machines together
in the laboratory ; the result will
be milk ninety per cent, purer
than ever came out of a dairy-
farmer’s bucket.”
FOR the next few days I crept
stealthily among my uncle’s
farm buildings armed with an
expensive English shotgun. I
didn’t let anyone get a chance
to spy on McGregor; though
now and then I saw heads peer-
ing over distant rocks.
Sometimes I put down my
gun to help McGregor. In
order to make sure that each set
of his apparatus would function,
he had to test it in its place in the
cow’s production-line. This
meant that I had to anaesthetise
the cow while he performed a
difficult operation.
We had a hold-up at the last
stage; McGregor had to add
so much to his artificial cow-
organs thkt the apparatus became
too heavy to mount on her* back
and had to be put into a farm-
cart tied to her side. The delays
made us all very tense, particu-
larly as we were worried about
how much longer we could get
the cow to co-operate with us ;
most of the time she lived in a
morphiac doze, which caused a
slowing-down of her functions
quite exasperating to McGregor.
Uncle was worried by the loss of
time and the piling-up of
expenses, while I could feel
Ferris’s malicious eyes on my
back all the while I was too
busy to ' patrol the farm with
my gun.
Even the new aunt, though
she hadn’t been told exactly what
was going on, went about her
housework apprehensively. If
she hadn’t been so modest I am
sure that she would have made
superstitious objections ; in fact,
in some respects she reminded
me of my grandmother, who
would have seen heaven’s wrath
about to fall on us for trying
to improve on God’s handiwork.
ONE afternoon after going to
meet the milk-lorry, Uncle
Reimer returned looking very
grave.
“The driver told me that
Ferris is bringing the police up
tomorrow to find out what
we’re doing.”
“We don’t need to worry
about the police,” McGregor
asserted; “we’re not distilling
alcohol this time.”
“They might charge us with
cruelty to the cow,” I suggested,
secretly mortified because I had
first mentioned this angle to
Ferris. '
“They’d be hypocrites enough
to try that,” Uncle agreed.
“Could you dismantle your
apparatus, McGregor, so that she
doesn’t look so miserable?”
“Good God, no,” McGregor
protested; “not when I’m so
near the end of my experiment.”
“It’s not only the cow,” my
uncle said ; “there’s sure to be
a crowd of hostile dairymen with
them, and they won’t leave until
they’re satisfied about what
we’re doing in the laboratory.”
“What about the cure for
pleuro-pneumonia?” I suggested.
“Only let me get my readings
in the morning,” McGregor
implored. “I don’t care what
happens to the cow after that.”
Uncle Reimer began to
chuckle.
“We’ll cure the cow of pleuro ;
o Continued on. page 34)


LOW"s
Autobiography
Here David Low tells of including Royalty in a London “Evening Standard”
cartoon and learning that that sort of thing isn’t done: the accompanying
examples of his having done it before are from one of his highly imaginative
“Bulletin” full-pages, “Billy Makes a Friendly Call”—Hughes having then
just arrived in England (apropos, in a recent London “Punch” there’s, a full-
dress caricature by Searle of Princess Margaret) . . . Other complications
spring from Low’s “Evening Standard” contract, which gives him a free hand
to express his own views . . . He meets great “Punch” cartoonist Bernard
Partridge . . . Sums-up, too, on politicians.
“The wife thought she’d surprise you, and
give you afternoon-tea Australian fashion.
The damper wasn’t a success, though.”
15
HERE had been much fuss
among “Evening Standard”
readers about the matter and
j the manner of my work; but
the main bone of contention
a| was, of course, its political
direction.
'-We cannot all be politicians even if
we wanted to be,,which most of us do
not. The ideal of a thinking
democracy is still a long
way off. At its present stage
of development, when
people have not yet learned
to use their own brains,
many depend upon their
newspapers to tell them
what to believe about the
passing world.
Once confirmed in this
dependence, which both
relieves them of the bother
of individual ratiocination
and comforts them with the
feeling that somebody has
everything in hand, they
have no wish to be
reminded (especially in
terms of satire) that there
might be two sides to the
question. The nightmare of
uncertainty raises its head.
Chasms yawn.
In a Conservative news-
paper one expected to find
Conservative cartoonists. As time
passed, and it became evident
srat I was not a Conservative cartoonist,
the circumstances took on the appearance
of a betrayal. Betrayal by whom?- By
Lord Beaverbrook, of course.
This was a question which ranged
beyond mere letters from readers. This
was news itself. What lay behind the
introduction of a wooden horse into the
Tory Troy?
V» ■
MOTIVES were sought, and the vari-
ous deep-thinkers came up with
answers according to their occupa-
tional complexities. My apprehensions
about Beaverbroolc had been groundless,
and I was gratified to find that the
alleged Prince of Darkness was scrupu-
lous in observing my Charter of Inde-
pendence, and even defended it against
his friends.
That was something to say when one
considered that very soon he was being
accused by his Right-wing Tory critics
of “blackguardly Bolshevism” for having
opened his pages to me at all. Even
sobers foreign newspapers like the “New
York Times” were scenting plots, and-
writing, on my account, of his “swing
to the Left.”
The “Manchester Guardian” thought
the innocent explanation was that Lord
B. had no particular party policy at
all:
as can be seen from the fact that
Mr. Low, the caricaturist of the Radical
“Star,” has recently transferred his services
to Lord Beaverbrook’s Conservative
“Evening Standard” with no apparent
change iii his political bias except to serve-up
Tory politicians with a more tartaric sauce.
The “Manchester Guardian” was not
quite so sure a few days later. Maybe
Lord B. was changing his party:
These rumors also declare that this news-
paper-magnate is moving with a Lett-tum
and color is given to this by the recent
cartoons in the “Evening Standard,” which
are quite unsympathetic to the present
Government—indeed, go as far as anything
the caricaturist had done in hi% “Star”.days.
Damn it! I said to myself. For a world
always yawping so much about the free-
dom of its press, the idea of one man’s
independence seems to take a lot of
swallowing.
The most widely held opinion, how-
ever, was that of a number of lesser
journals which had it rather confusedly
that Lord B. aimed at Downing-street and
had hired me
“Can I pass you one sausage, or two?”
(a) to stop my satirising his efforts to
become Prime Minister;
( b ) to advertise, popularise and aid him
to become Prime Minister.
In vain did Lord B. refute these specu-
lations* and invention^:
the case of Low’s caricatures. My
views as a shareholder in any newspaper
“Ha! ha! But have you heard the one about the
commercial-traveller and the typist?”
are that its columns ought to be free and
open to the expression of opinion by
men and women of distinction. I should
no more be in favor of excluding such work
because I disagreed with the opinions con-
tained in it than I would countenance the
coloring of news to suit preconceived ideas.
At least part of this declaration of
journalistic ethics had been admirably
acted upon so far as I was concerned ;
but this affirmation, awaiting the
experiences of subsequent years, would
have aroused no admiration in the
“Morning Post” of 1929. Nettled by
an observation of mine that what it called
“Mr. Baldwin’s wholesome leadership”
meant leadership into some hole, it shot
me bang at his Lordship’s brisket:
There was the “Evening Standard” which
week by week published cartoons whose
whole intention was to hold up the Con- -
servative leaders to ridicule and contempt
with the malicious mockery not equalled in
modern times. They were the work of
a brilliantly gifted artist, whose political
sympathies were amply revealed during his
connection with the Radical press, from
which Lord Beaverbrook enlisted him; and
it is sufficient criticism of the cartoons in
the “Evening Standard” to say that their
artist made no capitulation at all of his
political sympathies. Nothing so inimical
appeared in the Radical or Labor press as
the poison which Lord Beaverbrook thus
purveyed.
To) EAVERBROOK did not always
laugh in the right place at my car-
toons, and some galled him, but in the
twenty-three years of my association with
his newspapers I can recall only one car-
toon being left unprinted because of a
disagreement over its political content —
a spirited effort about the situation in
Greece in 1945, which was blocked at
the request of Churchill, the Prime
Minister, in what he held to be the
interests of Western
democracy.
There were, however,
about a couple of dozen
left out for other
reasons: because of
unhappy chance turning
my analogies into point-
less insult, as for instance
when a scoop photo-
graph of King George V
on the deck of his flag-
ship to review the Fleet
was found to be "going to
press facing a cartoon of
Colonel - Blimp doing
exactly the same thing,
but analogically, in quite
a different connection;
because of Sudden illness of a
politician figuring in the cartoon;
because of the tears of Lord Rothermere
at seeing himself caricatured, which made
an impossible situation for Lord Beaver-
brook, since R. had helped B. to finance
the purchase of the “Evening Standard” ;
or because the entire situation had
changed between the time of drawing the
cartoon and its going to press.
There was a facetious little whimsy
in which I celebrated the opening of the
London Season by a set of drawings of
my dog, Musso, bfeing presented at Court
curtseying, with veils, feathers, pearls,
bouquet and all among the debutantes.
I did their Majesties the justice of draw-
ing them, with democratic restraint, as
real people, not waxworks.
My nervous editor feared for his head,
and when I wasn’t looking sent his most
diplomatic lieutenant with the drawing
along to Buckingham Palace for approval
before printing it.
I knew nothing of what was going on
until it was relayed to me through a net-
work of smooth voices that Queen Mary
was greatly diverted by Mr. Low’s
extremely amusing drawings, loved my
dog, but asked me to consider that in
Britain we did not put the Monarchy
into cartoons.
There was room on that point for
argument, but I was already disarmed
and pink with compliments.
AS a “subject” himself, Beaverbrook
was uncomplaining, which was just
as well, since his political importance
made it necessary for me to draw him
frequently.
The more simple-minded readers—
those who see in political cartoons only
the comicality and do not understand
the politics—no doubt appreciated the
situation as one in which some cheeky
employee had somehow got himself into
a situation in which he could rag his boss
and was out to see how far he could go.
But the fact was that I drew Beaverbrook
only when his political activities
warranted it.
He never protested, partly because he
had a genuine sense of fun and didn't
care a damn; partly because he was
aware of the popular advertisement
accruing to a personality much car-
tooned, well or ill (besides being a
Nero and a Napoleon he was also a bit
of a Narcissus); partly because of the
reputation it gave him as a large-minded
newspaper-proprietor who gave everybody
on his staff freedom to say anything;
partly because it sold papers; and,
perhaps, partly because I had a contract.
THE “Morning Post’s” strictures to
which I have referred, printed as
part of an “inquest” on the Tory defeat
at the general elections of 1929, were in
fact misplaced.
Baldwin had given many opportunities
for satire. His party-slogan “Safety
First” in the country’s parlous position
could not but inspire cartoons of his
Government meeting the crisis by getting
under the table; and his encouragement
to farmers to solve their problems by
“Well, good-night, old chap. The bath
room’s the second door along."


THE CIRCUS LEAVES FOR HOME
("Billy” Hughes’s returning from the Peace Conference inspired this brilliant David Low cartoon, B. 10/7 / 19—one of Low’s last before going overseas himself.)
growing more broccoli would naturally
set any caricaturist examining a broccoli
to see if in its intricate features there
could be found any resemblance to the
facial lineaments of Baldwin himself.
I had certainly criticised the Baldwin
Government, but not unfairly, mainly for
its failure to produce a policy to deal
effectively with the rapidly worsening
unemployment situation ; but, then, I had
criticised both of the other parties for
the same reason.
The uniform helplessness with which
all three established parties confronted
a situation which was degenerating day
by day towards danger-level had, in fact,
created somewhat unsatisfactory condi-
tions for a cartoonist. One needs one’s
contrasts. One can be against something,
but to be effective one must also be for
something.
So I decided to fill the vacuum by
creating on paper a brand-new party —
the Low Party;" with a policy of hollow
mockery pointed at the futility and frus-
tration of what appeared to be the
common national policy, as things were
going.
The Low Party issues its Manifesto:
Low has consented to stand for Parlia-
ment and confidently asks for the support
of those who agree with Mr. Baldwin
about MacDonald and Lloyd George, *of
those who agree with Mr. MacDonald about.
Baldwin and Lloyd George, and of those ,
who agree with Mr. Lloyd Gfcorge about
MacDonald and Baldwin.
THE Low Party presented some
samples of its unemployment policy,
which it guaranteed was more to the
point than that of the three other parties:
the reconstruction of roads, also root-
ing ’em up and reconstructing ’em again
and again ; pink motor-bikes for bosses
to ride up and down the roads while
waiting for orders which didn’t come';
factories for cutting up brown-paper and
pieces of string to tie-up said orders if
necessary; the issue of a large number
of free passes to somewhere else; the
institution of a national “Hope-for-the-
best” week ; and more of the same kind.
Although I had not intended the Low
Party to be taken as other than a device
for comment, its reception grew aston-
ishingly real. What had been a joke
suddenly became serious.
Opportunity and imagination met and
outsiders began to clothe it with their
own ideas. It was evident that large
numbers of the electors were so deeply
disturbed at the way things were going
and at the inabilities of the established
parties that they snatched even at the
shadow of a straw.
Inquiries began to roll in, and a move-
ment began to group itself around me
with the object of sponsoring my Parlia-
mentary candidature at the elections as
an Independent.
I had l some difficulty in extricating
myself when it was announced that a
public meeting would be held to nominate
me. Beaverbrook thought I should go
on. Wells thought not. The putative
candidate decided to refrain from
attendance, so I don’t know what hap-
pened. t made use of the Low Party up
to the elections and then wrung its neck
quickly with a sigh of relief,
*TpHERE had been some disturbance of
my social relationships on leaving
the “Star” for the “Evening Standard,”
naturally enough ; but there were a few
curious reactions I had not expected,
i i os t some friends. The demon-
strated actuality of my independence gave
no joy to some who had talked much to
me about the freedom of the press. It
spoilt their arguments. It was like throw-
ing a spanner into their works. Some
whom I had come to regard as familiars
sheered away with a queer look as though
there were something fishy about one
who had so disappointed expectations of
mishap. ,
Keyed-up to the responsibility and con-
stant vigilance attached to playing a lone
hand, in wtlfit I Still felt tO DC hostile
company, I gloomed sourly on the dis-
. • -• ■ ? * ,1 u • . a
tinction between those who appreciated
the reality of freedom and those to whom
liberty was merely a good talking-point.
, There was, however, the other side of
r^e P enn Y- The malevolence of some of
pW cri tics had created an opposite
benevolence in others, so that 1 had, on
P a P er > W r moment, , a large and
growing body of goodwill to rely on.
An evidence of this was the numbers of
correspondents who wished to help me
suggestions for cartoons,
, ....
‘I L'HE fabrication of cartoon ideas with
meaning intelligible and readily
appreciated from one end of the country
to . the other, reasonably up to the
minute m subject and as fresh as may
m treatment, is an expert affair,
A cartoonist who is worth his salt and
in the swing is rarely worried by a lack
of ideas. It is the selection that takes
time—choosing one that will be alive
on publication.
My well-meaning correspondents could
not know that. Of the numberless sug-
gestions they sent to me, only half of
one per qent. were of any practical
value; and even that half of one I had
to avoid, because the use of an idea from
a total stranger could very easily result
in embarrassing copyright complications,
Most of the time these contributed
ideas seemed to be distinctly reminiscent,
Plentiful among them were whiskered
old-stagers about Prime Ministers walk-
ing tightropes marked “Crisis,” and
Ships of State heading for rocks inscribed
“Disaster.” Whenever a Cabinet Minister
resigned, a dozen correspondents,
with memories of Tenniel’s classic car-
toon of the 188 Q’s, suggested “Dropping
the Pilot.” I received “On, Stanley, On”
suggestions about once a week when
Stanley Baldwin became a political
leader.
The gratuitous adviser of one car-
toonist friend of mine had octopuses on
the brain as cartoon analogies. Protec-
tion, Unemployment, Comrfnunism, Capi-
talism, the Catholic Church—all appeared
in his one-track imagination as octopuses
with spreading tentacles.
My poor friend, seeing him approach,-
used to murmur bitterly: “Damn!
Another octopus,” and leave hurriedly.
©N the credit side, too, my relations
with the “Evening Standard” man-
agement and editorial became most
cordial. Much to everybody’s surprise,
the fuss had increased circulation. And
my salary had been underwritten by
subletting reproduction-rights of my
cartoons to twelve provincial newspapers.
(I Continued on next page)
p IGHTEEN - M QNTHS before he
drew “The Circus Leaves For
Home”—possibly* the artistic peak of
his “Billy” Hughes full-page cartoons
in The Bulletin—Low had already
made such Notable use of “Billy” that
“Jean Sibi” (probably C. R. Bradish)
weighed-in with the following com-
ment (B. 24/1/T8):
Hughes’s continuance in office is a
matter of degraded joy to David Low,
who had been worrying over the pros-
pect of losing a face in which the
Almighty has left so much for the
caricaturist to finish off .
Hughes ha? been a godsend to the
artist—is, indeed, more valuable in the
sustained economy of his design than
Reid in his physical abandon ever
could be. Realising this, one can
understand Low’s anguish at the threat
of men like Tudor, Watt, Forrest or
Irvine coming up.
Tudor has a very likeable character,
but is about as pictorially beguiling
as a doughnut. He hasn’t a thick ear
or the smallest wart to light the eye
of the artistic bloodhound who is
running him down.-
Watt is more promising, but even his
greatest admirers admit that the
friendliest tally of his facial points
would soon make a paper look like a
dOg-show.
Apart from the fact that the purple
splendor of Forrest is untranslatable
into black and white, he is practically
prohibited on account of the high
cost of paper.
As for Irvine, the rectangular recti-
tude of his ground plan, the Euclidean
contours he flings you from every
angle of sight, drives the exasperated
artist to the second book of Todhunter
for inspiration. Only a Cubist with a
large heart and a parallel ruler could
make anything of Iceberg’s riot of
right-angles.
/ foresee a dismal time for Low
w h en Hughes disappears—unless
Tudor and the others put their faces
under a tram, or the two parties elect
more picturesque leaders.
WILLIE WATT
(A “Personal Page” carica-
ture of W. A. Watt; actually,
Low did make quite con-
siderable use of the “dog-
show” features in “Bulletin”
cartoons.)


Much advertised up and down the
country like a new toothpaste, and an
object of some public curiosity, I found
new doors began to open. Invitations
from the most unlikely people to dinners, '
receptions and country weekends began
to arrive.
Here was quite a different world from
that of my “Star” days. The upper-
income-bracket, obviously. ,
In pursuit of experience we accepted
the mbst promising of these. We began
to lead a busy social life. On threadbare
excuses I found myself lured into con-
tacts with persons I had never heard of
before. The horizon constantly widened.
Several people “took us up” but dropped
us like a hot potato when they found I
was a prickly fellow, not the dinner-table
wit they had probably expected.
We were invited to dinner on a slight
acquaintance by a pleasant chap to meet
a Distinguished Lady. By the time we
had got to the fish course I gathered the
Distinguished Lady (who proved very
amiable) was the intimate of a Very Im-
portant Personage Indeed, and I became
aware that I was being put through a
process of examination as a preliminary
to future possibilities. I chilled and the
evening was a fiasco.
Again, apropos of nothing, I found
myself at dinner with three millionaires.
We did ourselves extremely well. It was
a miserable affair and cured me of any
lingering doubt that happiness might
reside in the possession of great wealth.
Poor chaps, if ever there were three who
had lost their way, they had.
MERE and there I felt the shutters go
up when I came along. I was a
public eye and a reputed scoffer —worse,
one of those Left-wing people.
On the other hand, I found more than
I had expected of jolly and congenial
company. But moving in this champagne
atmosphere in my white tie and tails I
was restrained by the tight-lipped caution
of my Scottish forefathers from high
living and close social entanglements.
Not along that road lay the happy but
precarious life I saw for myself. Long
ago I had decided that the two traps most
dangerous to artists of any kind were
material success, the wish for easy living
undermining the wish to do good work ;
and the pleasuring of friends, the effort
to meet the standards of others rather
than one’s own.
Although I became more smooth and
agile in small-talk, although I learned to
dissemble, to flatter and to adopt the pro-
tective coloring that would 1 enable me
unobtrusively to survey this new jungle
of honeyed amiability, my social
encounters were not invariably attended
by honor. There were callow bounders
of both sexes who assumed with cool
impudence .that I could be used to further
their private interests. Some of the over-
tures were so crude as to be laughable.
A society hostess offered me a hand-
some fee to attend one of her parties.
One brash fellow approached me to know
how much I woilld take to put him in a
cartoon. He wanted the advertisement.
“If you will repeat your proposition
before George, there, so that I may be
protected from your denial that you ever
made it,” I said, “I will put you in the
paper offering to pay me to put you in
the paper. And it won’t cost you a bean
—only your dignity.”
He looked at me with a fish-eye and
turned away. Later he told a friend of
mine that I was a bit of a cad.
ET has been said often enough that
without leisured classes able to
interest themselves in higher things the
world could never have developed in
culture and the arts.
Certainly I found here and there
civilised individuals who gave some truth
to an otherwise questionable statement.
Lords, after all, are not always lords for
nothing. Pondered wisdom sometimes
issues from plush easy-chairs. A certain
detachment of view may be gained by
sitting in the middle of a hundred-
thousand-acre estate.
In the ’thirties, however, the most
notable feature of what remained of the
“privileged classes” was certainly neither
culture, art, »nor philosophy. Here and
there I encountered the survival of an
arrogance which was almost ferocious.
I understood why Britain had lost the
American colonies. I understood for the
first time why so many of my own grand-
parents’ generation had chosen to pack-up
and go to live somewhere else.
Looking at and conversing amiably
with some of these respected relics I felt
that not very far under their skins was
the brutal stupidity that, even in 1930,
could regard human-beings as property
and quite naturally identified the public
interest with the sanctity of their own
purely private interests —those disagree-
ing being, prima facie, treasonable dogs.
All my life overseas I had taken for
granted a general assent among the British
to the ideals of Democracy. It was
something new to me to find people who
strongly disapproved those ideals, and
would, if they could, have reversed
engines back to the 18th century.
It was interesting to me, with New
Zealand eyes, to note the obstinacy of
class-consciousness, and the depth of the
political cleavages. But, apart from the
evidence afforded by these survivals,
FAMILY GROUP
(Apart from its interest as an example of Low’s present-day work, this recent “Man-
chester Guardian ” cartoon has, for this instalment of his book, its special bearing upon
his arguments against old London “Punch” cartoonist Bernard Partridge on the perpetual
tion of such cartoon-symbols for Britain as the feminine Britannia and the Lion, both
of which he here heartily burlesques.)
what the “upper classes” had been like
before the war I could only surmise.
Many of the children of the pre-war rich
had been left financially
by the First World War, and many of
their children had sensibly gone to work.
A new generation of “nobs” had arisen.
Baldwin in. the early ’twenties had
described its Parliamentary representation
as “hard-faced men who looked as
though they had done well out of the
war.”
They had also swamped “Society.”
Thq gaiety was rowdier than I had
expected. There was more rudeness and
more grab.
One could pick those who had the
tradition of graceful living behind them
from the jostling of the more recently
elevated, overplaying their parts.
GRADUALLY I became aware of a
top layer of our social system
peopled by the successful, or about-to-be-
successful. In this company if one were
a success, it hardly mattered what one
was a success at.
This was the Ambition Exchange, in
which members openly but in the most
amiable manner made use o| oqe
another. Obviously they were trained for
it. This was the cruder aspect of a
salient in the British way of life. The
parents sent their children to the “right”
schools to make “useful” companion-
ships: their mentors taught them the art
of choosing friends with an eye to future
material advantage, with or without con-
geniality, and the business-system com-
pleted the process by teaming them up
for mutual profit; the final product being
modern primitive man, the single-track
self-seeker, perpetually on the make.
This, it appeared, was the business of
life; and here they were all trying to
climb up on one another’s shoulders. To
the hopefuls of the well-to-do classes
from which the bulk of this layer
appeared to be drawn, this “you-scratch-
my-back-and-Tll-scratch-yours” spirit
seemed the most natural and right thing
in the world.
But to me, a lone stranger plonked down
in its midst, an outsider from an equali-
tarian society accustomed to being loved
or unloved for himself, it seemed
degraded in its cynicism.
“Outsider” was the word. Even in
1930 there remained the lively vestiges
of an exclusive system in which not to
be of “us” was to be declasse, with
decided disadvantages.
/ My own auspices were convincing,
otherwise I surely would not have been
moving freely ih this vast club of which
the management committee, the already
successful, the people in the. top jobs—
church, law, medicine, industry, finance,
diplomacy, politics (Left as well as
Right)—seemed all, if not actually
related, at least to have been at school
with one another, and naturally striving
to keep the plums in the family.
©N and off this level I got to know
more politicians of both sides on
more conversational terms.
When at an early age I began to take
a real interest in current problems and
their solutions, I soon dropped the glib
assumption that the mere existence of
the mfiseries of mankind proved politi-
cians to be a crowd of fools and skunks.
Having made the distinction between
statesmen and politicians as roughly the
designers and the fabricators of policy,
I learned to adjust my expectations
accordingly. With more understanding
I tried to put myself in their respective
places, and I began to appreciate the
difference between carping and criticism.
It became clear that there must be,
after all, many good men in politics out
to do their best within the limits of
their own capacity. The motives that
impelled men into public life not
necessarily sordid, but, on the contrary,
could be and were often noble.
Having observed that, I noted also, on
the other hand, that there were the
attitudinisers, more concerned with their
own emotional release, than with any real
“The Right Hon. Dress-suit, M.P.,
wearing his Jimmy Thomas.”
concern for the common weal; the cal-
culating careerists looking for power and
the lush life; the yearners baying the
moon ; the obsoletes who had long ago
lost their score-cards; and the plain
stoopids who approached every problem
with an open mouth.
/
SEARCHING for common attributes\
among my political acquaintances, I
was struck by what appeared to be
occupational characteristics.
The first was vanity. Politicians in a
democratic system must be vain. How
could it be otherwise? A candidate
without a good opinion of himself could
hardly command the respect of electors.
And doubt would be justified. Lack of
self-confidence is no sound qualification
for leadership, however attractive a fa?ade
of humility in a well-established monu-
ment might be to sentimental voters.
The desire for importance moves
everybody—high and low. In politics
more than in any other calling it may
be seen at work, not merely among the
hopelessly unimportant and insignificant,
but, since it feeds on success, in the
highest places. In this life there are no
advantages without their : attendant dis-
advantages. As a consequence, many
politicians are quite ready to save the
country, not so many to help someone
else to save it.
Another characteristic of politicians
was charm. Politicians were nearly
always likeable personally. Indeed, they
went to some trouble to make themselves
likeable, for in a political democracy an
engaging personality was essential to
success in public life. /
Since I am one of those people who
socially can do no other than meet a
friendly approach with friendliness (any
more than professionally I could allow
my personal predilections to take the
chill off cold objectivity), ! found I liked
most of the politicians I met, although
there were some who for various reasons
did not return the compliment.
n JOINED clubs and had the freedom
of others ; and I was on nodding
terms with maitres d’hotel, chefs, house-
managers and doormen everywhere.
In a determination to overcome my
inper fearfulness of public speaking, I
accepted, for a time, all invitations to
make speeches; and at length, through
pain and suffering, achieved a passable
fluency, which led me into a variety of
pleasant social, professional, commercial
and even industrial occasions.
One speech led to another, and I
became a regular attendant at the Omar
Khayyam, the Titmarsh, The Odd
Volumes and other dinner-clubs which
had as their raison d’etre the airing of
the eloquence of members.
©F the strange characters I collected
at these now somewhat old-fashioned
institutions, two made marks on my
tablets of memory as particularly con-
genial—Rupert Gould, who subsequently
gained fame on the radio “brains trust
as the expert on sea-serpents; and
A. J. A. Symons, who could be described
only as a builder of castles in the air.
These two, dissimilar in all else, were
alike in their ability to talk the hind-leg
off a pot. Rupert was unique in that he


had an incredible memory. I once heard
him repeat from memory a magazine-
article of 2000 words without a single
error —and I enjoyed nothing better than
to be buttonholed by him in Whitehall
and used as audience for a session of tall
tales.
AJ. was a self-made man if ever there
was one, and even if the character he
built for himself was too brittle to endure,
the fact did not. impair the regard of
those who knew his more obvious
qualities.
I think of him only as the man with
whom 1 had the longest-winded argument
in my life. It was about the nature of
Beauty, and, beginning with a preamble
occupying an entire midnight walk from
Piccadilly to Hampstead, continued inter-
mittently and sporadically for about six
months.
AJ. took the line that beauty was
fitness for purpose—-a good motor-car
or a good lawnmower, for instance, was
beautiful.
I held that beauty lay in character.
A.J. was disinclined to admit that
there could be any lines of beauty in the
abstract, but finally plumped for sym-
metry. I felt that the lines of beauty lay
in asymmetry, in bumps and bulges, and
brought .forth Rodin and Meunier to
shame the Greeks.
We could not agree on the proposition
that beauty lay in the eye of the be-
holder ; but agreed that sex made it
difficult to come to an absolute judgment,
since a man would always think a
woman more beautiful than a cow, and
a bull would always think a cow more
beautiful than a. Woman.
We had a grand airing. '
THIS was the decade of vast parties.
Of all the parties, Beaverbrook’s took
the cake for variety. Bankers, diplomats,
peers, writers, artists, tycoons, film-stars,
Tories, Liberals and Socialists, Cabinet
Ministers and trade-union leaders.
I met there so many rising lights in
politics of both fhe Left and the Right
framed in cigars and champagne that I
began to think Lord B. represented a
stage in the political neophyte’s education.
On one big night the Right Hon.
Dress-Suit M.P. himself, Jimmy Thomas,
stood at the top of the stairs audibly
identifying for me new arrivals as they
ascended.
“Look! Here are two bloody dukes.
Watch that one. Always does the wrong
thing.”
As if to provide apt illustration the
duke indicated promptly knocked over
a vase.
Garden-parties on the cropped lawns
of stately homes; studio bottle-parties
where the crush was sb great that one
had to move out into the street to lift
one’s elbow; music-parties, fancydress-
parties, folk-dance- and ballet-parties,
sporting nights-out at the fight with
Harry Preston.
Anything less than a hundred guests to
a plain party was a quiet evening at
home. As confirmed guests we took our
turn —bought a new and larger home and
gave some parties ourselves which shook
our quiet suburb.
16
HNSPIRATION is a promiscuous jade,
not caring how many she picks-up on
a bright night. Frequently two
cartoonists thinking along the same lines
get the same idea for the same occasion.
That was how I met Bernard Partridge.
Similar analogies had occurred to both
of us and we had each drawn virtually
the same cartoon.
He wrote to explain the time-lag of
his methods to prove that the “plagiar-
ism” was inadvertent —as if I did not
know it. The incident ended in our taking
one another to luncheon with his friend
and “junior” colleague Leonard Raven
Hill as host.
That was a red-letter day for me. I
had awe for them both, particularly
for Partridge, the last of the cartoonists of
the Victorian grand manner. After all,
poets, prophets and princes were all very
well, but this was the great B.P. himself,
an idol of my boyhood.
His knighthood troubled me, for I
could not think that critics or com-
mentators ostensibly of satirical temper
on public affairs should accept, like other
insignia of trammelling loyalties.
A fool may conceive the satirist to have
no purpose beyond throwing overripe
tomatoes at passers-by ; but viewed on
the highest plane of responsibility, his
duty must be tq humanity as a whole, not
to groups, institutions or individuals. No
conscientious satirist could be a “King’s
man,” with the implied restriction.
PARTRIDGE had begun life as an
actor —one of Beerbohm Tree’s boys
—and rather let you know it. A hand-
some man of much dignity, reserved at
first.
Raven Hill, an amiable, fussy chap,
fond of his food, was responsive. Both
were ultra-conservative, even reactionary,
I thought. I was the colonial radical.
Our different angles on life came out
when we exchanged ideas about our
calling. I have never enjoyed a “shop”
talk so much, especially when it ranged
to the traditional mythology.
x Partridge, as the inheritor of the
Tenniel tradition in “Punch,” specialised
in cartoons dealing with national occa-
sions, such as laying laurel-wreaths on
the tombs of dead statesmen (“The
Nation Mourns”), congratulating epic
sportsmen (“Well done, sir!”), extending
the helping hand in disasters (“Britain’s
Sympathy”), etc., in which he represented
the Anglo-Saxon people by Britannia, a
massive matron moulded according to
the Graeco-Roman idea of beauty.
EHAD a point of view about this.
The personification of the higher
abstractions as beautiful females was a
convention inherited from our unsophisti-
cated forefathers.
To put it mildly, they overdid it. To
them Justice, recognised in these later
times as a stern, cold, unfeminine virtue
(unlike Mercy, Hope, Love, etc.), was
rather absurdly a woman; as also was
Liberty, the most virile of human ambi-
tions ; and Peace, the business of strong
men, still impersonated by that futile
maiden carrying the allegedly peaceful
but actually rather quarrelsome bird, the
dove. '>
The idea of representing nations in
this way was not new, of course, with
Britannia, though one suspected that the
beautiful females of other modern
nations were but imitators, Colombia,
Germania, Marianne or her degenerate
equivalent La Belle France, and the whole
bourgeois boiling lot of them.
ffS jp i HROUGH these figures could be
1! discerned the dead past in which the
influence of women was such that man
ascribed to the feminine mystery the
divine qualities.
Both sexes now knew better—but the
Britannia family lived on, still adequately
expressing the conception of dignity,
national and international, which died
last century. Could it be that the Modern
Woman of 1930, smart and independent,
regarded herself as related even remotely
to these female tanks? Could it be that
the citizen of 1930 in national emergency
liked to be told that he was behaving
like a perfect lady?
Both Partridge and Raven Hill rose in
defence. Why should cartoonists lay
aside signs and symbols which their public
had been educated down the ages to
accept as symbolic of certain ideas?
I had to admit that in making cartoons
for newspapers add periodicals it was
necessary to make a generous compromise
LORD OXFORD (ASQUITH)
(One of the select gallery of superb caricatures drawn by Low soon after he had gone
to London from “The Bulletin”; the now-famous “New Statesman series. In an
earlier instalment Low recorded that when Asquith posed for the drawing he found
him rather “crusty” but “the fruitiness of his diction struck my ear, tuned to a compara-
tively raucous Australian accent, with real pleasure”)
with the average receptivity, and that a
cartoonist could not afford to be
independent of the values and associations
already accepted.
But, I asked, on the other hand, what
are cartoonists for? If in their more
conscientious moments, perceiving how
far signs and symbols constitute the
mental stock-in-trade of the average man,
they sometimes reflect that as symbol-
makers possibly they have a rgsponsi-
bility, certainly it would seem to involve
keeping themselves abreast of the times,
Look at. John Bull, invented in 1712,
personification of the English people
and/or the average Englishman, and
Uncle Sam, 1775, his counterpart for
the United States of America-two more
figures in the gallery of classic cartoon
symbolism then still in current use.
No doubt the John Bull pictonally
developed with obscene disrespect and
popular success by James Gil ray and
contemporary cartoonists of the 18th
century was fairly representative of a
type of Englishman which was numerous
and assertive at that time.
No doubt, also, Uncle Sam was once
more-or-less a truthful portrait of the
dominant American type,
But, leaving on one side their obsolete
dre ss, it might be difficult to find less
truthful representatives of the average
citizens of Britain and the United States
0 f America in our time than respectively
this obese, smug, side-whiskered country
squire, and this lanky, long-haired, goat-
bearded farmer.
what were these agricultural leftovers
do ing monopolising the masquerade as
Britain and the United States in these
industrial days? Was this the Machine
Age or wasn ’t it?
There had been war. And there had
been revolutions. Whatever your political
philosophy may be, the representative
Russian of . 1930 was a clean-shaven
young man wearing overalls stneared
with oil and carrying a large spanner.
The Russian Bear was a tractor ; and the
bomb a machine-gun around the corner,
Mention of the Russian Bear led us to
Sacred Animals. In Partridge’s view the
people who were responsible for “lifting”
from ancient heraldry a lion as a symbol
of the indomitable spirit of the British
nation had a good idea,
The British Lion, we all three agreed,
certainly had his points as a cartoon
“property.” With his waving mane and
his tufted tail he could be made to look
very striking, crouching in dignified
anger or glaring nobly at nothing. He
made what they (palled “powerful”
cartoons.
But, apart from this purely aesthetic
consideration, there seemed no justifica-
tion f or continuing to libel the British
people by likening it to this unworthy
creature, notoriously a loud roarer but a
cruel and cowardly beast, only bold when
facing something weaker than itself.
j remember that meeting with my two
eminent fe ilow-cartoonists as one of the
genuinely delightful spots in my life. We
§ isagree £ frequently and emphatically,
we e ac h consumed two helpings of roast-
duck and we parted frien ds.
’
(To be continued next week)


THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O’Connell Sts.,
Sydney.
H. V. La wry,
Manager.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM
Trained by Ken Hilton and
raced by W. R. Kemball,
Camber won Moonee Valley’s
First Yuroke Handicap (one
mile) very nicely, and it’s now
intended to set the Underwood
(imp.) gelding for the AJ.’C. St.
Leger, to be run at Randwick on
April 20, the classic this year
again being open to geldings.
Underwood has sired a number
of stayers, including Te Totara,
Dormant (N.Z. Cup) and Half-
Past, while Lady Balloch, dam
of the gelding, is a Balloch (imp.)
mare from Lady Ex by Lord
Quex (imp.). Balloch sired Mel-
bourne Cup and A.J.C. Metro-
politan winner Dalray.
Hitara’s form at prior starts
was poor enough to account
for his starting-price of 25 to 1
in Moonee Valley’s Preston
Handicap for two-year-olds.
Trained at Epsom by R. J.
Stapleton for Miss A. Richard-
son and N. Grave, the colt
brought only 125 gns. when sub-
mitted as a yearling at the
Melbourne sales last March.
Otway Falkiner, of Boonoke
(N.S.W.), bred Hitara, who is by
Tuhitarata from Fairy Song by
Waikare from Fryer’s Song by
Friarsdale (imp.).
• • • •
Thirty years ago W.
(“Plugger”) Scanlan won the
Caulfield Cup on Textile.
Subsequently Scanlan won fame
abroad, but, after landing a
thousand or more winners, he
dropped out of the game as a
jockey. He staged a comeback
at Moonee Valley on Saturday,
winning on the well-fancied
High Gain in the Second Yuroke
Handicap. His mount got up in
time to beat the short-priced
favorite, Hellespride. The
veteran —as jockeys go—was
given a big hand. He was a bit
shy on revealing his age, but it
would be round the 50 mask.
Even so, he’s still some years
younger than a few horsemen
riding in various Australian
States. One Sydney jockey who
recently won a race is well into
the fifties, but still keen to add
to his record ; he’s one of the
first riders at the track in the
early morning and one of the
last to leave. One of the not-
so-young was advised by a
heckler at Rosehill to “do your
sleeping at home.” "<The jockey
took it with a broadAmile. By
now he’s impervious to
demonstrations.
Before racing Rose-
hill form and pre-post betting
pointed to trainers T. J. Smith
and L. J. O’Sullivan as holding
excellent prospects in the seven-
event programme. Smith was
expected to win with Tulloch,
Penarth and Top Ruler, and
O’Sullivan with Teranyan, New
Spec and Woodland Stream.
Neither trainer won a race.
Woodland Stream was scratched,
but the other five starters cost
punters plenty. One trainer,
however, did win three races—
Harry Plant, of Bernborough
fame. His winners were the
unbeaten Diamond Vista (a
high-class Arun-
brook, and Co Supreme.
Ridden by apprentice J.
Angus, Gunnaditchee strolled in
ahead of G. Moore’s mount,
Prince Charter, in Rosehill’s
First Parramatta Stakes.
Apprentices, in fact, won four
ot the seven Rosehill events, the
others to score besides Angus
being W. Pankhurst, R. Green-
wood and G. Howard.
Raced by Mrs. J. Cooper,
Italian Song won the mid-week
Canterbury Park. First Maiden
very easily, and should soon win
again. Trained at Randwick by
Harry Plant, the filly was bred
at Widden, Kerrabee (N.S.W.),
and is from 'the family which
produced Victory Lad, winner
of several thousands'in stakes
for Mrs. Cyril Jves. Italian Song
is by Brueghel (Fr.) from
In addition to the £3OOO Oak-
leigh Pl&te (5| furlongs) at Caul-
field this coming Saturday there
will also be the £2500 St. George
Stakes (w.f.a.} nine furlongs).
The Oakleigh Plate dates back to
1884, when famous versatile
galloper Malua won with 9.7.
Woorak won the rich sprint in
1917 with 10.5, the only time
its winner has humped more than
lOst. Birdwood’s 1.4 reinains
race-record time.
Oakleigh selections: Copper
Year, 1 ; Fascinating, 2 ; Heroic
Fair, 3.
Before racing began at
Rosehill last Saturday, Copper
Year, back to best form, was
regarded as a fair wager for
this year’s Newmarket, but an
impressive win by New
Zealander King’s Fair in the
Rosehill Flying steadied that
opinion a little. King’s Fair has
moved to second favoritism, with
Copper Year still on top, and
Arganda (from N.Z.) also in
marked request.
Swynphilos, Newmarket
winner in 1955, won over six
furlongs less 20yds. at Moonee
Valley last Saturday, and is
likely to become a strong New-
market prospect. Copper Year,
on 9.6, has to concede 51b. to
King’s Fair and 61b. to Swyn-
philos in the Newmarket.
King’s Fair won his race at
Rosehill almost without effort.
He was handicapped at 9st., but
the mount was given to stable
apprentice W. Pankhurst, bring-
ing the weight down ,to 8.7, a
luxury impost for the big-
striding" gelding, who hadn’t
carried less than 9st. at his four
prior outings. Pankhurst, now
with N.Z. trainer John Mitchell,
has had three masters in his short
riding-career, but he’s a promis-
ing youngster and looks to have
a bright future in the saddle.
His handling of King’s Fair was
a masterpiece.
If King’s Fair opposes
Matrice and other top sprinters
in Caulfield’s £4250 sixtieth
Futurity Stakes on Saturday
week he will* be ridden by A.
Ward, who also will be his pilot
if the stable keeps the New-
market Handicap engagement
on Saturday, March 9.
The Matrice stable is con-
fident of success in' the Futurity
since the crack Adelaide sprinter
easily won Moonee Valley’s
First Warrook Handicap with
10.3. Matrice won’t run again
before the Futurity. He recently
was beaten in the V.R.C. Light-
ning Stakes by Copper Year, but
prior to that defeat had won
six races on end.
Harmony by Ajax from Chanson
by Marconigram (imp.).
Rosebery" mentor Les
O'Rourke, whose horses in
wo,k include the like| y top
sta y er Harnham Hill, won
Canterbury Park’s Second
\5 rK s , £ e c ,
Wi h French Fire wno
*? P . . a 0O
u P ° S ff SeS
staying-blood. He is a three-
year-old Genetout (Fr.) geld-
i,™ Batt . ery Jirl The
Night Patrol (imp.). O Rourke
P aid 425 v B ns - * or the B eldm g
as a yearling, acting for country
£ wner W. TrescowthscK.
French Fires background
includes Artilleryman (Mel-
bourne Cup) and Valicare
(A.J.C. Doncaster). His grand-
dam, Battery Queen, was a sister
to Artilleryman.
* * * *
Marconi (imp.), a winner in
Englarfd and also at Rosehi]l
and at Hawkesbury, sired Secret
Eode? now trained at Randwick
\ „
“I’d like to see Gonzales relurn this one!”
by Darby Munro, who took him
to Newcastle and won a
Maiden Handicap with him. A
four-year-old gelding, Secret
Code is from Medea, sister to a
former crack Perth galloper,
Hestia, whose wins included the
W.A. Derby, as well as the
Malakoff Stakes at Caulfield.
In weighting for the £6OOO
Doncaster Handicap. (one mile)
and the £12,500 Sydney Cup
(two miles) A.J.C. handicapper
Goodwin has a ready-made
topweight, Redcraze, for the
Cup, and what’s allotted will be
interesting. Carbine won the
Sydney Cup in 1889 as a three-
year-old with 9st. and the
following year won it again with
9.9. Earlier (1868), The Barb was
successful as a four-year-old
with 8.12, and in the following
season with 10.8. No other
winner has lumped more than
9.9. Goodwin has a tougher
task with the crack rnilers in the
Doncaster, for which 157 have
been entered.
The Sydney Cup could be the
keenest-contested for years. Five
proved stayers from New
Zealand figure in the entry-list
of 115. Field Chief, Sombrero
and, Llanisfair could prove
worthy runners for Dominion
stables. Llanisfair is doing
steady work at Randwick under
T. J. Smith’s supervision, Don-
caster and Cup weights will be
issued next Monday.
“Bookie's Dog’’: Never
known Sydney owners and
trainers to be so uninterested in
Melbourne's autumn racing
carnival. There is only a
sprinkling of Sydney horses in
the Newmarket Handicap -
Australian Cup charts. Probable
reason is the increasing popu-
larity of the Brisbane winter
carnival. Apart from the big
stakes to be won, the lure of the
sunshine is tempting owners to
delay their horses training to
have them at their top in July,
_ . ~ ,
, Herb Elliott, Australia s new
L andy, who in the past month
or so has set new world junior
times for the mile and the
880yds., addedn the Australian
two-mile record (in 9mn>. lsec.)
at a twilight run in Melbourne
last Thursday. All the records
were held by Ron Clarke. On
Saturday in blustery wind he
won the N.S.W. senior mile title
i n 4min. 6.45ec.; good time in
the unsuitable conditions. At
time of writing it’s intended that
today (Wed.), at Box Hill (Vic.),
he’s to go after the world junior
1500-metre record. Very shortly
turning 19, Elliott will soon no
longer be eligible to run as a
junior In two 100yds. clashes
last week (at the two meetings
at which Elliott ran), Mike
Agostini, from Trinidad, twice
beat Hec Hogan—making it
three times in a’row since the
Games.
* * *
“Keima”: In a sol© swim at
Maryborough (Q.) just before
the Australian championships
began, David Theile (B.
13/2/’57) set new world-time for
100yds. backstroke (55.65ec.),
clipping a tenth of a second off
a record set by a Japanese-
American, Yoshi Oyakawa, in
1954. It doesn’t amaze me that
he should do so; what does
surprise me is that he has taken
so long about it —or, for that
matter, why N.S.W.’s John
Monckton hasn’t broken it. This
pair, have been the two best back-
strokers in the world for at least
the past six months (Theile for
longer), and both have set and
re-set world-records for distances
such as 100-metres and 110yds.,
and longer. (On Saturday
Monckton won the Australian
110 yds. backs.troke title, with
Theile in second place.)
* * *
S.A. batsman Colin Pinch has
made a century in each of his
last four matches against W.A.
(In his only other match against
W.A., in Adelaide, Feb., 1953,
ITe made 76.) His hundreds have
been. — 108 not-out in second
innings, Adelaide, Nov., ’54;
118, at Adelaide, Feb., ’56 ; 116
in Adelaide, in the second innings
of the first S.A.-W.A. game this
season ; and lastly, in the second
1956-57 game between the
States, a double-hunger, 110 and
100, the first time a century has
been scored in each innings of
a Shield game in Perth.
I’ll take that bet,
“J.S.L.” (B. 6/2/’57). The rule-
book states that an appeal of
“How’s that?” covers everything,
and even if the fieldsman appeals
for the run-out the umpire must
take things in their chronological
order and adjudicate upon the
catch first. “Out, caught”—and
the run-out is not considered.
If my memory serves me right
Bradman has written of a
similar incident concerning Eng-
lish umpire Chester. The Don
played forward to a beautiful
ball that ‘tickled the bat and into
the gloves behind. The 'keeper
took the bails off in a lightning
stumping and appealed to the
square-leg umpire. But Chester’s
finger went up at the bowler’s
end, and neither Bradman, who
was quite content with the
decision, nor any other man in
the field then bothered about
the square-leg man. One Casket
ticket, please!
“Veryl”: That opening-
partner.ship may not have been a
Balmain record (B. 13/2/’57),
but Balmain set a Sydney grade-
record last Saturday, in being
dismissed in their first innings
against Wests for 20, lowest
first-grade total ever. The
bowlers who “ate” the Tigers
were N.S.W.’s opening attack,
. Davidson and Wyatt (Davidson
6-4, Wyatt 3-12 ; Wests eventu-
ally, an outright win). Previous-
lowest first-grade total was 24,
made by Mosman against
Paddington at the end of last
season; destroyer then being
former Queensland and N.§>W.
fast-bowler Jack Clark, who
took 8-7. Clark was in the news
before Saturday’s round began
because, unsuccessful this year,
he’s been dropped to the seconds
for the first time since he entered
first-grade 11 years ago.
• • • •
“K.R*”: Playing in a Northern
Districts (Sydney) junior game,
I bowled an over, in a second
innings \yith no bearing on the
game’s result, which held
just about all the fortunes and
misfortunes that can befall a
bowler. The first ball was a
no-ball (a “wide” as it once
was); second, straight-driven for
four; third, batsman clean-
bowled ; fourth, following bats-
man caught in slips ; fifth, hat-
trick just missed, with ball going
as close as is possible to stumps
without hitting them; sixth,
batsman again beaten after
jumping out, and easily stumped,
but disallowed by square-leg
umpire on the ground that
’keeper had taken ball in front
of wicket; seventh ball, played
and fielded, no run; eighth,
glorious sixer.
* * *
“Dib”: Snow training is
becoming popular with distance-
runners overseas, it being claimed
that running in the soft snow
strengthens muscles in leg and
thigh and builds-up stamina.
Gundar Haegg attributed his
world mile-record of 4min.
I.4sec., set in 1945, to training in
the snow. Some of Sweden’s
leading post-war distance -runners
have followed Haegg’s methods.
French marathon-runner Alain
Mimoun trained in the snow in
the 1955-56 winter and easily
won the Olympic marathon in
Melbourne. Stiff, as there are no
big lumps of snow handy around
these parts, I guess Australia's
Landys, Lincolns and Elliotts
will ha.ve to continue to battle on
without it.
* * *
“Judee”: With the passing in
the U.S. of Dan Carroll, only
four members of the famous
touring Wallabies Rugby Union
team,of 1908 remain. They are
Phil Carmichael, who livbs in
Queensland ; Malcolm McArthur
(Albury, N.S.W.); “Boxer"
Russell and Paddy McCue (both
of Sydney). Theirs was the team
(the first Wallabies) that downed
England 32-3 in the final
of the Olympic Games Rugby
championship, as noted by
“G.A.” (B. 9/1//57).


«Bvn t*
i
MAKES
EVERY CORNER COUNT!
SHEER LOOK
FRIGIDAIRE
Division of
General Motors-Holden's Ltd.
APPOINTMENTS IN
HER MAJESTY’S
OVERSEA CIVIL SERVICE
Vacancies occur from time to time
in Her Majesty’s Oversea Civil
Service (formerly Colonial Service).
The service comprises an administra-
tive branch and various professional
branches including medical, engineer-
ing, legal, educational, agricultural,
forestry, veterinary, survey, geological
survey, nursing and other smaller
branches. Most appointments are to
the Governments of East, West and
Central Africa (such as Tanganyika,
Kenya, Uganda, Northern Rhodesia,
Nyasaland, Nigeria and Sierra
Leone) and may also be to North
Borneo, Sarawak, Hong Kong, Fiji
and the territories administered by
the Western Pacific High Commis-
sion. Vacancies occasionally occur
in the West Indies, Aden, Cyprus and
Mauritius.
Applicants for the Administrative
Service must be University graduates
under the age of 30. Applicants for
professional appointments are
required to possess full professional
qualification and should be under the
age of 40.
Persons desiring further informa-
tion should apply to Professor Zelman
Cowen, Commonwealth Liaison
Officer for Oversea Civil Service
Appointments, University of Mel-
bourne, Carlton, N. 3, Victoria.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CARLTON GEORGE WILLIAM
PATERSON late of 45 Campbell Street
Glebe.—TAKE NOTICE that LILLIAS
READ PATERSON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1517 of 1956 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
30th April i 957 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from W. lAN
SHORT & CO., Solicitors, of 135
Burwood Road, Burwood. —J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IS Divorce.
TO DONALD ROSS HILLIER late of
Gravesend in the State of New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that FAYE
HELEN lIILLIER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3fi97 of 1956 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st
day of May 1957. and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
MESSRS. ADRIAN TWIGG & CO.,
Solicitors, of 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO RICHARD THOMAS NORTON late
of 24: Chetwyn Street Old Guildford in
the State of New South Wales.— TAKE
NOTICE that EDNA MAY NORTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3151 of
1956 on the grounds of habitual
drunkenness with failure to support and
cruelty for three years and upwards It
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney oy
24th April 1957 and obtain a copy ol
the petition without charge from
DENSLEY & DOWNING, Solicitors, of
149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. <L
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
FOR SALE
CHEVROLET SEDAN 1956
Perfect condition. Small mileage. Two-tone
grey body. Radio installed. Excellent car
.for country work.
For inspection and price ring:
MR. BLACK, MA 9360— SYDNEY
Cut ou| stalling and
you cut down costs
\\
a ©
1. COMPLETELY SEALED GEARBOX. Precision,
cut gears run in an oil bath, completely
sealed so that dust just can't penetrate.
2. AUTOMATIC (CENTRIFUGAL) CLUTCH. No
levers just works for itself to save you
time in unnecessary * engine starting after
blade stalls or jams. Send the coupon for full
details of this new Mobilco - guaranteed for
6 months.
QUICK SERVICE COUPON
Please send me latest information on the
full range of Mobilco JUNIOR Tree Fellers.
Name -
Address.
MOBILCO JUNIOR
WITH AUTOMATIC
CLUTCH ....
Look at it ... a Saw with one single
control, a throttle lever. This new
Mobilco "C" is the Saw you cannot
stall. As the throttle is advanced the
clutch engages automatically. When the
throttle is closed the blade stops auto-
matically, but the engine idles along
gently until you are ready to do
another cut. It does not matter how
often you iam or stall your blade, the
engine will never stall. This is the
machine you must have if you want to
cut out stalling and cut down costs.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7C with automatic
clutch and 7 h.p.* B.S.A. air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £196, Deposit £9O/9/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR C with automatic
clutch and 5.2 h.p. Howard air-cooled,
4-stroke engine. £176, Deposit £BO/8/-.
MOBILCO JUNIOR with cone clutch and
5.2 h.p. Mobilco air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £l6B, Deposit £6B.
MOBILCO JUNIOR 7 with cone clutch
and 7 h.p. B.S.A. air-cooled, 4-stroke
engine. £lB9, Deposit £Bl/19/-.
ALL ABOVE PRICES F.O.R. MELBOURNE, BLADE EXTRA
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT LTD.
50-54 SILVERWATER ROAD, AUBURN. PHONES: YX1244-5 - TELEGRAMS: MOBILCO, SYDNEY
HEAD OFFICE: 410-416 WHITEHORSE ROAD, MITCHAM, VIC. - - p , H .®*lEi WU IMI (* LINES)
BRANCHES: BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH - - - AGENTS: ALL MAIN TOWNS IN AUSTRALIA
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
C. V. H. Johnson : We have here
for you a letter of reply from Inquirer
6451. Coold we have your address,
that we might forward it on?
To buy a copy of Stanford’s “Pre-
lude oa a Theme of Tallis.” —6466.
Information Sought
The flat edge of an enamelled bath
is becoming pitted, and the under-
lying softer matericfl appears to be
crumbling away. Can anything be
done to stop the damage ? ■*
Bath-repairs are very difficult, and,
because of hot water and hard wear,
usually require constant renewal. If
the pitting is in small spots, brush
out cleanly and fill in with the point
of a line brush,, using a good bath-
enamel in matching color. if the
spots are numerous, paint the whole
panel with . the enamel or cover with
plastic tiles (information on these
obtainable at hardware-stores). If the
damage is in larger patches, clean
them out well with steel-wool or line
emery-paper, but do not abrade the
surrounding enamel. Then fill-in with
one of the two following stoppings:
(a) A small quantity of litharge
(sometimes called yellow lead; from
a paint-store, lib. about 25.), mixed
to a putty-like state with pure
glycerine, making it fairly stiff. Press
it into the holes, finish smoothly;
if on a curve, bend a piece of
celluloid over to smooth it in the
round. It dries slowly and looks like
lead: when quite hard, smooth with
No. 1 glass-paper. (6) Fill with
metallic cement (bought in a tube;
looks like aluminium toothpaste),
which dries hard in 24 hours. As it
shrinks down a little, leave it slightly
raised. Smooth with the same glass-
paper. In both processes, finish with
best-quality liquid bath-enamel in
two or. three coats. This makes a
good patch, standing a fair amount
of wear and hot water; but no repair
will look as good as the original
’ finish.
* * * *
There are two schools of thought
in the. poultry fraternity as to the
correct use of the term “Birchen,
one maintaining that it indicates a
pattern of feather-marking, and the
other that it indicates a particular
color. A verdict? If it does indicate
a color, how would it be described in
artists’ jargon, and what then'would
be the correct use of the term as
applied to fighting-cocks?
(From C. C. Blumer, Chief,
Division of Animal Industry, N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture.) Birchen
game were recognised in England as
a separate color-variety more th&n
50 years ago, when they were derived
by the crossing of an old breed known
as Silver Birchen with the lightest
lemon specimens occurring among
Brown-reds. Similar in other respects
to the Brown-red, the Birchen dilrers
in that its lacing and hackles are
silvery-white instead ot lemon; tne
lacing, in both sexes, is also narrower
and' sharper, and extends further
down the breast. Correct use ot
the term “Birchen,” there! ore, is as
applied to color. There is a defined
color standard for- Birchen game,
which, however, cannot be described,
as requested, in “artists’ jargon
atMeast, not by officers ot this depart-
ment. This standard is as follows.
Beak: dark horn. Eyes: black. Comb,
face, wattles and earlobes: dark
purple. Legs and feet: black. Plumage
of the cock: Hackle, back, saddle,
shoulder-coverts and. wing-bows
silver-white. The remainder, rich
black: the breast has a narrow silver
margin around each feather giving
it a regular laced appearance,
ally diminishing to periect black
thighs. Plumage of hen: Hackle
similar to that of the cock. Remainder,
rich black; the breast, as with the
cock, very delicately laced. fhe
Birchen color could be present in pit-
game. However, this type is judged
on fighting qualities, without regard
to color or individual breed-
characters.
** v * * .
What was the incident in Victoria
over which Colonel Tom Trice
(Service Page, B. 13/2/ 57) lost face.
Percival Serle, in his Dictionary of
Australian Biography, describes Price
as “an euthusiastic, capable and out-
spoken soldier,” and adds: “He was
well liked by his men and had many
friends, but he incurred much odium
during the maritime strike m Mel-
bourne in 1890 when the military were,
called out, for telling.his men that it
they were commanded to fire it would
be their duty to do so, and in that
case they should ‘fire- low and lay
them out.’ He strenuously defended
this on the ground that if the troops
fired low they would be far less likely
to hit vital spots.” Touching on the
same incident, a Bulletin “Personal
par. farewelled him thus:
The late Colonel Tom Price, of
Victoria, had a had style, and was indis-
creet and all that, and so he came io
say during the maritime strike that ii
the command was given to the citizen
soldiers to fire low and lay ’em out they
must obey. But Tom had good points.
He came while Softgoods Sargood was
making an earnest attempt to give some
reality to the Victorian War Olnce.
Sargood was early in the field in perceiv-
ing the Asiatic danger. He gave Price
a free hand, and Tom smashed up a heap
of tomfoolery. One of his exultations
was in pounding up the Prince of Wales
Victoria Volunteer Light Horse, an awful
burlesque, performed by swells in busbies,
with a bit of red flannel hanging out.
Price it was who, after that, introduced
tile khaki uniform of the Rebels ill the
American Civil War, and these uniforms
ultimately set the fashion for gll
Australia.
Brief Answers
J.A.K.: You should declare the
income of £745 per annum and inform
the Commissioner of Taxation that
tax has been deducted. Presumably
you are given a certificate to that
effect by the Government of Western
Australia. You will have to pay
approximately £214, from which an
amount of £54 should be deducted.
....J.O’S. (N.Z.): We could, but it
would take the whole of three issues
to cover it. You might write to a
bookseller in each of the countries
whose 'duties you wish to compare,
and ask for a copy of the statutes
dealing with death-duties... .T.D.:
No real method of repairing broken
book-spines except by removing the
covers and replacing the stiff cover-
ing of the backing with new material,
work which requires skill and experi-
ence; such repairs should be entrusted
to someone qualified (either a com-
mercial binder or a craft-worker).
Further, books of different periods
have been treated in various ways with
regard to sewing, fastenings and tapes.
Unskilled work could damage
valuable books, and inferior books
are hardly worth the trouble.
B.R.: (1) There are so
many methods of using gilding m
decoration that it is impossible to
describe them here. Inquire at a
paint-store for a gold-size; which is
used for the patterns or letters,
followed by a dusting of gold or
bronze powder. There are also new
paints for their purpose. If using
the liquid gold-paint in small bottles,
pour off some of the liquid and add
size: this should give a good home-
worker’s paint. (2) Yes, you must
use a timber or plywood shape tor
the articles, or the matches would fall
apart. They are fastened on with
ordinary glue or one of the new
adhesives, of which there are many
kinds sold in tubes. The glue (or
whatever you are using) is painted on
the wood in small areas (to avoid
drying out) and the matches then
placed neatly and firmly in position.
C.M.; (From Rev. E. E. Potter,
Principal, Sydney Bible Training
Institute.) Assuming that you wish
to know how much of the Old Testa-
ment was recently found in a cave in
the Dead Sea area: A complete copy
of the Book of Isaiah; a half-copy of
the Book of Isaiah; a complete com-
' mentary of twto chapters of the Book
of Habakkuk; broken bits of every
book of the Old Testament. All this
was discovered in a number of caves
which are all connected with a Jewish
monastery of the Essene Order.
Brisbane#: An answer to a similar
inquiry regarding “The Lone Hand”
appeared on the Service Page of The
Bulletin for Dec. 14, 1955 ; a copy ol
that issue has been forwarded. Briefly,
the Sept., 1914, issue was the last
brought out by The Bulletin. From
Oct.,/ 1914, to Jan., 1919, the paper
was printed and published by Syd.
Day, The Printer, Ltd. The magazine
again changed hands, when Irom Feb.,
1919, to June, 1919 (both monthly
issues inclusive), it was printed at the
Caxton Printing Works, 24 Jamison-
sueet, Sydney, for The Lone Hand,
Ltd., and'published at the office ol:
the company at 4 Dalley-street,
Sydney. From the July, 1919, issue
till it ceased publication in Feb., 1921,
it was printed by the New Century
Press Ltd., 4316 Ken L-street, Sydney,
for The Lone Hand, Ltd., 350 George-
street.... E.W.: The N .R.M.A. in
Sydney advises that it has no recollec-
tion of the carburettor’s haying been
developed in Australia. Since your
enclosed letter contains a reference to
the South African market, it suggests
that you. contact the Automobile
Association of South Africa, 27
Castle-street, Cape Town, lor details
of any commercial development there.
E.C.: (1) Low’s Autobiography is
on sale in Australian bookshops;
price 375. 3d. (2) No; only a small
percentage of the illustrations used
in The Bulletin serial are from the
book, which, however, is quite well
illustrated.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
bd addressed to the Editor: they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G.G.: Too much binding in “The
Marsh”.... S.A.K.: Read like things
that should have been whistled
E.G.A.W. :• We’re going to let two
poets get the Opera House on their
chests; no more! You first:
At Bennelong Point
They’re building a joint,
But what does it represent?
French nuns playing football,
Though I think that would soon pa-ll
On people like you and me.
It could be a sail
Tossed about in a gale,
Or an iceberg of fine proportion;
But, what’s all the fuss?
I don’t give a cuss,
For who will be here to see?
M.D.: Your turn:
The generous lovers of music,
Who wanted an Opera House for' .
Have scoffed at a neat modern building
And selected a. giant stegosauius.
Sprawled in the sun near our harbor,
Its ugly form always before us,
Its belly will rumble and thunder
To the strains of the great! “Anvil
Chorus.”
However, take • heart, fellow-lowbrows ;
There’s a glimmer of hope still before us.
This great rudimentary creature
May take fright at our civilised auras.
From Bradfield’s majestic archway
The clatter of traffic might bore us.
But what an effect it could 'easily have
On a startled and shy stegosaurus!
With a swish of the tail it might make
for
The water, so temptingly near.
With a mighty big splash and a bellow
of rage,
The monster might well disappear.
It might be a hazard to shipping,
But we’ll rival the fame of Loch Ness.
How the skeleton got in the harbor
Posterity only could guess.
- ... .J.T.: Much ado about little....
P.S.M.: “The Pirate Ship” de-
ballasted and scuttled F.G.C.:
Too many adjectives... .A.W.: Your
contralto is giving an w.p.tf.-
rec i t a 1... .M.M.: No.. ..R.L.:
“Murder at the Refrigeration Plant
left us cold P.H.: That story could
have been good if you hadn’t bumped-
off the hero halfway through....
L.0’8.: Set it against' an Australian
background.... S.T.: “Ode to
Vivaldi” basketed, molto allegro....
1.M.D.: “The Waterfall” fe11...-.
L.J.: Agree that writing is a tough
life; sometimes reading is, too
P.P.: Strip it of excessive verbiage,
reshape the plot and send it else-
where M.E.: Cricketing .yarn, all
right, except for - lhat phenomenal
last - wicket partnership F. 0.:
“Flying Saucers” not our cup of tea.
S.H.: Sorry, we don’t print plays.
B.L.: Hardly R.W.: Opus on
icebergs consigned to warmer cßmate.
.... G.P.: Referred your story, all 79
handwritten pages of it? to our
calligraphy expert. Should hear from
him around Christmas. . * .K.S.:
Jejune.


in i/tc
FuttiJ^c
\
k
Coal has been a subject of discussion lately,
and without wishing to touch in any way upon
political questions, I cannot help saying that I hope
Australia will do everything to keep its great coal
industry strong and prosperous.
Uncertainties surrounding oil supplies from
the Middle East may yet cause countries like our
own, with abundant coal supplies, to turn more to
them as a source of industrial fuel.
Apart altogether from the Middle East
situation, there is every reason why Australia
should keep coal production as high as possible.
Britain, while making her dramatic bid to
lead the world in nuclear power, for commercial
use, is still in need of every ton of coal she can
get for her domestic industry. The United States,
rich in oil, is taking steps to ensure the satisfaction
of a rising home demand for coal. With new arid
extended mines the U.S.A. expects to be using 600-
million tons of coal a year by 1960.
Now, the relative expansion in Australia is
going to be much greater than in either Britain or
America, as this country has yet to be developed.
We will need ample coal to feed our growing
economy.
Nature has provided us with plenty of it. The
proved and probable deposits are sufficient to last
for hundreds of years, at current rates of extraction.
The present problem—the employment of
miners in certain fields in New South Wales—
actually follows a period of record production.
Able minds, I know, are applying themselves
to readjustftient in the industiy. The thought I
offer is simply this:
In attempting to solve the immediate pro-
blems, let us not lose sight of the long-term
advantages of sustaining the coal-mining industiy
and keeping it geared high for the Future. ‘ ,
For, come what may in alternate sources of
power, we will be dependent for a long time on
Old King Coal.
y/^
y
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED .
{.lncorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WAXES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SIDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BU 4387 (2 lines)
L. P. THORPE. MANAGER.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
BRITAIN'S AIRCRAFT
■pOR some considerable time
errors and indecision in
the building of British Service
aircraft have been the subject of
much hostile press-comment.
Possibly a good deal of the com-
ment has been less sympathetic
than it might have been in view
of the difficulties confronting all
concerned—the Service planners,
the designers and the manufac-
turers—when the need for build-
ing and maintaining an effective
air-arm has been overshadowed
by the as-yet-unproven part that
guided-missiles may play in
any future war.
It must also be considered, of
course, that those working on
the development of guided-
missiles are unlikely to make
public the more significant
aspects of their progress and, to
that extent, critics of the U.K.
Government’s air-defence policy
have been shooting in the dark.
Recent London “Daily Express”
suggestions that Britain is
dropping the manufacture of
fighters in favor of guided-
missiles would suggest that the
Government has been thinking
along those lines for a long time
—such decisions are not made
overnight.
Those things notwithstanding,
however, the long-held suspicion
that a lot of money has gone
down the sink on comparatively
useless aircraft in the last few
years has been more-or-less
justified by the findings of an
all-party committee.
Commenting on these findings,
London “Daily Telegraph” notes
that “there is probably no more
difficult business than ordering
military aircraft”:
“It takes eight years from
design to production for a
fighter, 10 for a bomber. In this
time not only does technical
knowledge advance but strategy
changes: risks have to be taken.
The Select Committee on the
Supply of Military Aircraft
acknowledges that in spite of
these difficulties, and in spite of
some notorious - failures, ‘we
[Britain] have produced some
of the finest aircraft in the world,
together with engines and
various electronic devices.’
“This general judgment
should be remembered, for the
committee goes on to make
penetrating and sweeping
criticisms of the methods of
ordering and controlling expendi-
ture. And it concludes that we
have not had full value for our
money in military aircraft.
“The greatest fault has been
that the aircraft-industry has
been overloaded. This was
justified immediately after the
war, but has been disastrous
since the industry became fully
employed once more. The
•reason for this is traced by the
committee to two defects in the
Ministries.
“First, whait is described as the
key committee in the process of
aircraft ordering—the Defence
Research Policy Committee—
has no scientific or engineering
staff ; nor does it include a repre-
sentative of the Treasury.
“ ‘lt was not until the White
Paper on the Supply of Military
Aircraft was being prepared in
March, 1955, that the Ministry
of Defence became aware that
the number of military-aircraft
projects was having an adverse
effect on the resources of the
industry.’
“Secondly, the Ministry of
Supply, which is supposed to
provide the link between the
Service Ministries and the air-
craft-industry, seems to have
been singularly lighthearted in
allowing useless expenditure to
run on, and singularly faint-
hearted in getting the Services
to think nationally.
“The V-1000 —which the com-
mittee calls the most expensive
of all the aircraft that were
never produced—is a case in
point. In the first place, no
attempt was made to ensure that
the aircraft, which was for
military transport, had a civil
use. In spite of this it was
abandoned in favor of the
Britannia —a civil type.
“Finally, ‘the bulk of 'the
expenditure was incurred when
all concerned knew, or ought to
have known, that it was urgently
necessary to cut anything that
could be cut.’ ”
Also commenting on the com-
mittee’s report, “Manchester
Guardian” recounts “one of its
most striking tales”:
“A few months ago when
atomic bombs were going off in
the Australian desert, a few
Swift fighters were scattered
around to see what damage
bombs could do to aircraft on
the ground.
“This is a strange use for air-
craft which cost £33 million to
develop and build, but no
doubt it was the best that could
be done with them. For by the
time the Swift was ready for
operations the Service depart-
ments had no general use for
it.
“A development project of the
same magnitude as the ground-
nuts scheme had turned out to
be abortive.”
Further comment from
Edinburgh “Scotsman” con-
siders that “the really alarming
thing is not so much that some
money has been wasted as that,
after huge expenditure, we
[Britain] might still find our-
selves with an obsolete Air Force
in the event of war:
“Wastage could be forgiven if
the end-product were a measure
of air-supremacy, but this we
—London "Daily Express”
“DAMNED AUTOMATION, THAT’S WHAT IT IS!”
obviously do not have. The
suspicion must remain that our
failure to keep up is in some
way related to the system which
causes wastage. The report
cautiously suggests that our
aircraft-industry is being asked
to undertake too much.
“Not long ago a director of
the German Henschel firm
warned us [Britain] in obvious
good faith that we were in
danger of repeating the folly
which lost Germany the war in
the air—abandoning the original
ideas of concentration. He
described our position as
extremely dangerous.
“The truth is that we do not
have the technical staff nor the
resources to lead in every field
of aircraft-development at once.
To keep a finger in every pie is
only to bring about a fatal dilu-
tion and squandering of these
resources. The men who decide
Our air-policy could well take a
lesson from the atomic-energy
race. There, by concentration,
with only a fraction of the U.S.
expenditure, we have outstripped
America.”
Another pointer to the fading
significance of fighters might be
seen in the disbanding of the
Royal Auxiliary Air Force,
which, as the “Scotsman” also
notes, means the discarding of
“some 300 trained pilots and
2000 trained ground-crew, and
a substantial and efficient, if
increasingly obsolescent, portion
of its (Britain’s) day-fighter-
defences” :
“The Auxiliary squadrons
have been overtaken by the
terrific pace of advance in the
air, and their disbandment was
inevitable sooner or later. It
has become impossible to train
and equip them on a level that
would preserve their old value
as fully effective and immedi-
ately available units when even
the regular Air Force is finding
difficulty in keeping pace in men
and machines with this fantastic
rate of advance, in which air-
craft types become obsolete
almost as they leave the produc-
tion-line if not the drawing-
board.
“Also, the whole pattern of
air-defence is changing with the
advent of long-range atomic
missiles and unmanned inter-
ceptors. The ‘weekend fliers’
had no justifiable place in that
pattern, except on the ground in
the control and detection units
that are assuming an ever-grow-
ing importance; and it is to
those units that they are urged
to transfer the volunteer
enthusiasm that has made them
so valuable to their country.”
To which London “Daily
Mail” adds:
“How strange to think that
the Battle of Britain, the first of
its kind, may also be the last.
Fighter Command, whose name
is immortal, is to be severely
cut, and may one day disappear.
“The Air Force as we know
it is little more than 40 years
old, yet already it is on its way
out. It rose like a rocket in the
firmament of war, and it looks
like descending with equal
rapidity. It will itself become
a rocket.”
Commonwealth
Migration
Debate, press and political,
continues over the growing
number of Britons applying for
emigration to Canada and
Australia, the opinions ranging
from that of Angus Maude,
M.P., who, in London “Time
and Tide,” describes the spec-
tacle as an “ugly rush to the
High Commissioner’s offices [in
London]” to those who, like
“Daily Express,” lament that
less money is being spent on
“peopling the Empire with
British stock” than on the
8.8.C.’s Third Programme.
The “Daily Express” points
out that under the Empire
Settlement Bill the U.K. can
spend £1,500;000 a year on
grants to emigrants, but that “in
the last few years the amount
actually spent has not even
reached this ceiling”:
“No less than £1,112,000,
however, is found to pay for the
Third Programme.
“Does this country [Britain]
really put no greater value on
making the Empire strong and
prosperous than on catering for
the entertainment of a tiny per-
centage of its radio public?”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
discounting the more gloomy
views, quotes “some reassuring
figures” given in the Commons
by Mr. Alport, the new. Under-
secretary for Commonwealth
Relations :
“Of 140,000 persons who have
emigrated to'Australia during the
past five years, 56,000 were wage-
earners, and 84,000 were


CLOTHES
Made for the modern
man of action *
Made to give you freedom .. . plus comfort. . . plus a
\ trim, slim-line natural fitting that means distinctive
dressing under all circumstances.
All circumstances ? Of course! Stamina self-supporting
trousers are so neatly correct, so finely tailored in the
true craftsman tradition, that you will want to, and
can wear them everywhere.
They hold their crisp, original shape for all the many,
A many years you will be wearing them. They are
wrinkle-proof and crush-resistant.
The secret of Stamina’s perfection lies in a combination
of precision tailoring and the fine, jjure-wool Crusader
cloth which is specially woven, specially dyed so the
color remains clear and bright for the full, long life
of the garment.
ASK FOR
Mamina
SELF-SUPPORTING
TROUSERS
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
T 9.113
dependants. About one-sixth,
too, were over the age of 45.
This should resolve the doubts
of those who fear that Britain
is dispatching to the Common-
wealth the flower of her young
talent and energy.
“Britain cannot export men
and women to the Common-
wealth as though. they were
goods to be accepted under some
tariff agreement. Everyone must
decide for himself whether to try
to go, or not. The attitude of
what are coldly described as the
‘receiving countries’ must always
be the controlling factor. But
Mr. Alport was'right to remind
the House that ‘we would not be
a world Power today if our
people had always stayed at
home.’ ”
A correspondent writing to
Edinburgh “Scotsman” disagrees
with “the main assumption in
much of the recent press-com-
ment that emigration is a bad
thing for this country [Britain]”:
“From a very short-term point
of view, arguments can cer-
tainly be advanced in support of
this assumption, the most power-
ful being that the emigrants are
generally skilled young people,
whose departure means a serious
loss of human resources to the
nation and an increase in the
burden of old people to be
carried by those who are left.
“But, taking a longer view, a
reduction in our [Britain’s]
population will surely make a
sounder economy, since we
shall not be so dependent on
imports, and a transfer of
people to Canada and Australia
should strengthen the Com-
monwealth. is a
form of investment; if we had
invested more in Canada over
the last 40 years, both in money
and in people, Canada would
not be so foreign to us today.”
On the suggestion “that many
of the intending emigrants are
just idle or neurotic people who
will Ipe unhappy and dissatisfied
anywhere,” the writer holds
that “while it is true that
emigration has suddenly become
fashionable, and that some
people have jumped on the band-
wagon who will be misfits in
their new country,” the sugges-
tion isn’t fair to the majority of
emigrants.
“In any case there is an
obvious contradiction between
this suggestion and the com-
plaint that the emigrants are the
people we [Britain] can least
afford to lose. Many' of them
are young tradesmen, tech-
nicians, and professional people
who have done their best here
but who find cold comfort in
repeated assertions by journalists
and politicians that this country
cannot afford to lose them.
From their own experience, it
cannot afford to keep them
either.
“These are not the people who
watch TV and snooze by the
fire: they have tried raising
Cain in politics, and in their
work, and have found it the
quickest way to be barred from
promotion by the tired old men
who control so' many of our
[Britain’s] organisations. If
‘high taxation and the difficulties
of making ends meet are bad
reasons for emigrating,’ what
are good reasons? And if these
people are restless and dis-
satisfied here, are we not better
to be rid of them?
“Most of the emigrants do not
expect to find Canada and Aus-
tralia heavens on earth. They
know that they will find much
that is strange and irritating,
and that they will miss much
that they enjoy here. But they
do know, often from reports and
first-hand accounts by friends
and relatives, that if they are
skilled and diligent they will be
well rewarded for their work,
that they will enjoy working in
a growing nation which really
does need their gifts, and that
they will have much more
chance of controlling their own
future than they have here.
“If these are really valuable
people whom we are losing, then
there is something wrong with
our way of life here if it drives
them out.”
The other viewpoint—as put
by Maude in “Time and Tide”
—is that “if, as seems probable,
the latest rush of applicants to
leave Britain contains an even
higher proportion of younger
and more skilled workers than
has been the case before, there
is clearly cause for concern:
“The average investment —in
education, training and welfare
services has been officially-
estimated at not less than £2500
for each emigrant. In the past
few years only about one
emigrant in 20 has been of pen-
sionable age, and, of course, the
emigrants do not take with them
their share of the British
National Debt!
“It is perfectly possible to
argue that the general interest
of the Commonwealth is well
served by this diffusion of our
best human resources, although
the argument would be more
convincing if the export of men
and women were accompanied
by an export of capital on any-
thing like the same relative scale
as was once the case.
“However, what we cannot
afford to ignore are the social
and political implications of the
present trend. It is easy to
denigrate the motives of the new
applicants for emigration by
suggesting that they are simply
seeking to avoid the incon-
veniences of petrol-rationing and
the other economic consequences
of Suez.
“There may be a substantial
proportion 6f what one speaker
[in the Commons] called rats ;
but rats are intelligent animals,
and it is worth while pausing
to consider why they now
believe the ship to be sinking. It
is doubtful whether their actions
are based on no better evidence
than that it has temporarily
run short of oil.
“There is no doubt that the
Suez fiasco administered a
severe shock to a very large
number of people in this country.
1 am not here speaking of those
who were horrified by the
original decision to invade
Egypt, for there is no evidence
that there has been any great
rush by them to shake off the
morally contaminated dust of
Britain. To a much greater
number of people the shock
consisted in the discovery that
their rulers, having decided to
take drastic action to protect the
rights and interests of Britain,
were either unable or unwilling
to go through with it.”
King Saud
The ruler of Saudi Arabia as
seen from each side of the
Atlantic:
“New York Times ” : “There
were good and sufficient reasons
to - invite King Saud to
Washington at this time. These
reasons are not necessarily purely
practical, for we ought not to
forget that King Saud’s father,
Ibn Saud, was a valued friend of
the United States from the time
Americans started looking for
oil in 1933, through World War
II and until his death in 1953.
“His son, the present King
Saud, linked his foreign policy
to Egypt, but it is the most
obvious commonsense to realise
that President Nasser is a rival,
not a friend ; that Egypt is a
dangerous ally for Saudi Arabia,
and that the last thing King Saud
and his people would want to
see in the Middle East is the
triumph or even strengthening
of Communism backed by
Russia.
“Obviously, we [the U.S.]
want Saudi Arabia on the side
of the free world. We would like
to see that country follow an
independent policy, apart from —
even if sometimes parallel to —
Egypt’s. We want to safeguard
the oil wealth of the Persian
Gulf. Saudi Arabia’s oilfields are
among the richest in the world
and they are being developed
entirely by Americans. There is
an American air-base of im-
portance at Dhahran, near the
Persian Gulf.”
* * \ *
London “Economist”: “On
one side he [Saud] is unquestion-
ably anti-Communist, for his
antique and absolute monarchy
cannot stomach even a hint of
reform from anywhere but itself.
On the other side his policy is
completely identified with that of
Egypt and Syria, the two
countries whose false neutrality
has allowed the very Communist
penetration that the United
States now seeks to combat.
“The mainspring of Saudi
Arabian activity for years has
been the determination to isolate
Irak, not because that country is
friendly to the West, but
because of the enmity of the two
royal families. In his single-
minded pursuit of this end, King
Saud has muddied the broad
stream of Arab nationalism with
his money, and has without
hesitation made common cause
with Communism when it suited.
To no small extent he has been
paymaster for President Nasser
in other Arab countries.,
“These requests [for money
and arms from the U.S.] must be
seen against his agreement with
Egypt and Syria on January 19
to finance Jordan’s rejection of
the treaty with Britain. By this
agreement the three countries
undertook to arm Jordan , and
it seems clear that aid to Saudi
Arabia will release other funds
and money for this purpose.
King Saud’s oil-income last year
was about £B2 million.”
Polish Elections
London “Time and Tide”
assessment of the elections which
returned Wladyslaw Gomulka
and his “national Communists”
to the government of Poland:
“The result of the elections is
far more than a political victory
for Mr. Gomulka. It is the
acceptance by virtually an entire
people of one man in whom
absolute trust is placed —trust
that he will finally break the
hold which the Soviet Union has
for so long had over the destiny
of the' Polish people. The fact
that Mr. Gomulka is himself a
Communist does not matter to
them. He is, in their view, a
Pole who proved his patriotism
last October when he defied the
Kremlin and rescued his country-
from direct Russian domination,
Only a long way behind comes
consideration that he believes
political and economic
svstem which many of them
detest. y -
“The outcome of the election
. g however, only a beginning.
The political fetters have been
broken but Poland unfortunately
remains economically dependent
upon the Soviet Union. This
pi aces a great responsibility upon
the West, particularly upon
Britain and the United States,
“Mr. Gomulka has expressed
readiness to accept economic
to accept «°n°nn
stoufd° be’mato avaJabto as
f ree i v an d as generously as
possible but without political
brines No Western attempt
worldng y alon^ r 'his own road
not prodded. He should be
placed in a position where he
can end his close link with
Russia without economic mis-
givings whenever, in his view, the
right moment has arrived.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Writing and TV
The golden age of the high-class
magazines wlas the period 1890-1910.
During those 20 years they published
many of the short stories which are
regarded as classics today. Then came
a series of blows from which these
periodicals never really recovered.
First came the cinema. After World
War I there was a period of unrest during
which the majority of people didn’t want
serious reading in their short fiction.
Humorists such as Wodehouse had a
field-day. Then came radio, followed by
the depression, the talkies, the paper-
shortages of World War 11, TV and,
finally, the present inflation and high
costs of publishing.
All along it has been claimed that each
innovation, in the way of popular enter-
tainment has ultimately stimulated the
reading of .good fiction, but the way in
which the periodicals have passed out of
existence gives this the lie. Since 1930
Australia has lost most of its best
periodicals.
The position is just as bad overseas.
Britain has lost “John .O’London’s
Weekly.” In the U.S.A., “Collier’s” and
“Women’s Home ’Companion,” which
had a combined weekly sale of
copies, have now closed.
A few new “literary” magazines and
reviews have appeared, but these print
little except critical evaluations of-what
has been written in the past. Thb crying
need today is for publications which will
give new writers the chance to get creative
work into print.
Short stories are still being written, but
few stand a chance of seeing print unless
they comply with the old escapist themes
popular with women readers. In any
case, most of these appear originally in
American magazines, ajnd Australian
publications buy them as syndicated
material.
When radio began to boom, it was
claimed that it would provide wonderful
new opportunities 'for writers. But the
material required for broadcasting is as
evanescent as a puff of smoke. Writers
also learned that little kudos or credit
came to them from turning out radio
scripts. Everything in that line, plus the
big financial rewards, Went to the people
whose voices were heard in the shows.
Before the real value of work can be
assessed and the author can receive any-
thing like the credit due, it has to have an
original publication in print. Then those
who adapt for cinema, stage, radio or
television can get to work on it.
The people who run TV have now
been forced to admit this fact. The
modern Moloch which they serve is
devouring material at such a rate that
little work written in the past now
remains to be rehashed. But not much
new stuff of any quality and originality
can come their way unless they subsidise
the publication of magazines in which a
fresh generation of writers can get their
work printed.
Thus we have TV now helping, how-
ever unwittingly, to administer the
death-blow to the periodicals which
have been publishing the type
of material from which literature
emerges—and at the same time
bemoaning the fact that we now have no
writers of the calibre of Somerset
Maugham or Damon Runyon to turn
out the type of material needfed.
Archaen (S.A.).
Point of View
In matters of trade, costs and produc-
tion we are rather inclined to blame
somebody else when trends fail to go
the way we think they should. Here in
Australia we are striving to attain a high
degree of self-sufficiency, not only in
primary production—in which we excel,
and which in the past formed the back-
bone of our overseas trade —but in a
variety of other directions, and particu-
larly in heavy and secondary industries,
in which, not so many years ago,
we wereaccustomed to depend
upon our British customers. It
was then a two-way business
which was more-or-less mutu-
ally satisfactory.
World War II upset the apple-
cart, and it was only to be
expected that various countries
not seriously touched by war
should help to fill the gap left
by Britain’s hard-hit industries.
Australia was one of these
countries and did well out of
it. Among the prizes which
came from short supplies and high
prices was the 40-hour-week and
high wages. The price-rises which
followed created demands for still higher
wages, and the process has continued ever
since.
But Golden Ages cannot last for ever.
As the world settles down to peace, com-
petition revives everywhere. Australian
prices are not now so popular as they
might have been in times of shortage.
Instead of 'bowing gracefully to
changing conditions' and trying to fall
into line with world Competitive prices,
far too many people incline to blame
the overseas buyer for the shorter prices
now ruling. Who can blame anyone for
buying in the cheapest markets the food
they cannot produce for themselves?
We cannot escape the fact that short
working-hpurs and high wages are at
the head and front of short production
and higher costs. It is a delusion that a
35-hour-week, as proposed by a miners’
leader, would do anything* to cure the
coal-trade. The coal-trade can only be
cured by cheaper coal, and that means
higher production. If shipping freights
are up it is largely because delays and
obstructions in Australian and other
ports have reduced the earning-capacity
of these great and expensive ships.
It is time we realised that new markets
prepared to pay our high prices are not
so easy to find. The day of easy times
and fancy prices is nearly over. —
Shellback (N.S.W.).
Hotels
By 1963 certain American airlines hope
to be using jet airliners in the Pacific,
and an official of the Australian National
Travel Association lately outlined plans
for greatly expanded hotel accommoda-
tion in Australia to meet the expected
upsurge in Pacific tourist-traffic.
Over the Commonwealth about £66
million is now being spent annually on
the construction of new hotels and
modernisation of existing buildings.
Almost without exception, however, pub-
lished statements about the new build-
"Ideal speaker—exhausts himself before his subject"
ings indicate that they will be luxurious
to the last detail, as befitting the wealthy
overseas tourist.
That is all very nice for the tourist, for
the owners of the pubs, and for our
dollar-earnings, but where in Australia
even now can the family man of ordinary
means take his family for full hotel
accommodation without feeling the
effect of his. extravagance for months
afterwards? These luxurious hotels,
existing or planned, do more to retard
internal tourism than encourage it.
It is much the same with the greatly
boosted motels. When they first began
to appear premiers said that they would
“ Look —prefab!"
be of modest appointments with com-
mensurate tariffs to suit the thousands
of people who have cars but who cannot
afford so-called high-class accommoda-
tion. It hasn’t turned out that way at
all —most of these establishments are as
luxurious as their charges.
What are really wanted, of course, are
hotels —or at least some hotels —where
lush trimmings' are sacrificed and tariffs
reduced accordingly.— Kemberry
(A.C.T.).
Rates—Without Mercy
There is need for alteration in the
N. S. Wales Local Government Act
'regarding the valuation of property of
deceased owners.
Quite a few cases have been brought
under my notice in the last, few weeks
where owners have died within the last
month or two and their properties have
had to be valued for probate purposes.
The Valuer-General’s Department has
immediately sent on the new valuation
to the relevant municipal council. The
values of two properties were
considerably increased by the Valuer-
General, with the result that the widows
were slugged with a 120 per cent, increase
in rates. In another case the increase
was over 600 per cent.!
The unfair part of this is that the
triennial valuations have not yet been
made for that particular municipality,
so the local council increased the rate.
Because these unfortunate women lost
their husbands before the general re-
valuations they have had to meet the new
increased rate on a valuation 12 months
ahead of any other ratepayers.
Surely councils should be allowed to
ignore probate valuations in these cases
and wait until all the district ratepayers
come into line on a general valuation.
—Ray d’O. (N.S.W.).
Bank Salaries
To the older generation of bank-
officers —men who joined banks on £4O
a year and were not permitted to marry
until they reached an annual salary of
£2O0 —there is something fantastic in the
arguments advanced by the Australian
Bank Officials’ Association for still higher
salaries for comparatively junior and
inexperienced clerks.
There may or may not be something
to be said for the more senior officers,
but they, too, seem to be pretty well
looked after. As regards the younger
men, here is an extract from the January,
1957, issue of the “Bankers’ Journal.” It
is quoted by the A.8.0.A. in a memoran-
dum forwardqd by them to banks:
I am 22 years of age, married with a
wife and baby to support. My net fort-
nightly salary is about £26 10s. or £53 a
month. After paying rent, eatables,
instalments on refrigerator and bedroom-
suite,' I have £lO left per month for other
sundry items such as tobacco, cigarettes,
electricity, wood, telephone, doctors,
chemists, clothes, etc, I find this is quite
inadequate and at the moment am in debt
to several traders and I am unable to pay
them on my present salary.
The “net salapy” of £53 a month is
presumably what is left after deduction
of income tax and, possibly, a contri-
bution to the particular bank’s pension-
fund. Anyway, the United Bank Officers’
Association award for a young man of
22 with seven years’ service is £864 a
year. One bank pays £879. Perhaps
the writer did not join the bank until he
was 18 or 19, in which case his experience
would be most limited.
If a young man of 22 chooses to acquire
a wife and baby, refrigerator instalments,
telephone, furniture on h.-p. and so on,
it can hardly be wondered at if he finds
himself a bit short on tobacco and
cigarettes, but that should be no concern
of his employers. It simply adds-up to
the old problem of how to cope with
finance when marrying too early in life
with an inadequate income. It is no
argument for higher salaries all round.—
Bank Pensioner (Vic.).
Road Accidents
Necessary though both may be, neither
new laws nor better enforcement of
those we have will ease the toll of the
roads (B. 23/1/’57). Clever propaganda
by the temperance people has given rise
to the belief that most road-accidents are
due to alcohol. Statistical studies do not
support this.
The driving-seat of a car is no place
for a drunk, and those who try to drive
while under the influence deserve no
mercy, but they only cause about 20
per cent, of accidents. Excessive speed
kills and maims more, but even that must
take second place to careless and
inattentive driving.
There is good evidence that the driver
in this class, if he is lucky enough to
survive, will go on having accidents;
that, in fact, he is “accident-prone.”
This condition is well known in industry,
and it has been established that if a man
is accident-prone in one occupation, say
using a machine tool, he will also collect
more than his share of accidents in
playing football, driving a car, walking
around his home, or wherever there is a
spice of danger. Some large firms try to
draft these unfortunates out of the most
dangerous jobs.
Applying our knowledge of the condi-
tion to the roads, we need further
research to discover, if possible:
(a) A rpethod of diagnosing the accident-
prone before he draws attention to
himself by a string of accidents.
(b) A method of treating and possibly
curing the condition.
Success with (a) would mean that such
people could be debarred from holding a
licence and thereby endangering them-
selves and everyone else. As this would
involve a certain amount of hardship the
tests would have to be well-nigh infallible.-
In the light of present knowledge,
success with ( b ) does not seem very
likely. But if these afflicted people (for
that is what they are) were cleared from
the roads, there would be a better chance
of cleaning-up the drunks, the speedsters
and the plain road-hogs, and making our
highways and byways really safe.—
Magnoon (Q.).


Criticism
Arthur Falk (B. 26/12/’56) says that
“any evidence of professional men’s
inefficiency” is soon broadcast, implying
that this word-of-mouth advertising
separates the sheep from the goats.
Nonsense! At apy level, up to the
highest, it is possible to gain a reputation
for ability with nothing but superficial
competence supported by bluff. How can
a layman determine the merit of the
geologist or veterinarian he intends to
engage? The difficult or complicated
work which best tests a professional
man’s skill is just the sort of work the
uninitiate cannot judge.
To contrast artists with professional
men on the basis that art requires more
“guidance” for its understanding than,
say, ophthalmology, is surely false.
Yet such a contrast is traditionally
drawn. The Queensland criminal code
itself recognises it, imposing a less severe
onus of justification on the defamers of
artists and writers.
It is hard to see in what way artistic
work warrants special treatment.
Granted that it must be vigorously kept
in line by criticism, why is this benefit
denied to furniture-making, restaurant-
service or car-repairing?- We are told
of the best books to read; it is at least
as important to be warned against shoddy
goods and poor workmanship. —C. W. P.
(Q-).
Oil in the Middle East
Behind practically every move in the
Middle East lies a struggle for oil in the
Iran, Irak, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia
areas. The countries through which
pipelines take large quantities to the
eastern Mediterranean ports —Syria,
Jordan, Lebanon —also become strategic
flarespots.
Middle East events have shown how
quick Russia is to capitalise on disaffec-
tion between U.K., France and U.S.A.,
but the picture is not complete unless the
intense rivalries between the Western
world’s great oil-interests are taken into
account.
In the case of pipelines owned by the
Irak Petroleum Company, three out of
four pumping-stations have been blasted,
cutting off about 550,000 barrels a day
which had flowed from the Kirkuk fields
in Irak through Syria to the Lebanese
coast.
Aramco’s line from Saudi Arabia
through Jordan and Syria to the Lebanese
coast was still pumping 315,000 barrels
a day at the time of the Irak Petroleum
disaster. The Saudi Arabian Govern-
ment wouldn’t allow this oil to be sold
to Britain or France.
Ararnco controls Saudi Arabia’s oil-
resources, and in turn is itself controlled
by Standard Oil of California, the Texas
Company, and Standard Oil (New
Jersey). Ararnco has invested more
than £360,000,000 sterling in the area.
King Saud gets 50 p.c. of the profits.
It follows that if the States which have
granted commissions to oil companies are
able to extend their borders, so the oil-
companies’ concessions will grow.
More than a year ago, a crisis occurred
between Britain and the United States
over the Buraimi Oasis, where British-
officered troops of the Sultan of Muscat
and Oman chased out the emissaries of
Saudi Arabia. An American geologist,
“Take yours off, too — it's lovely in.”
in company with Saudi troops, was found
delving about in the Protectorate.
Behind the Sultan was the British-
controlled Irak Petroleum Company.
Behind Saiidi Arabia was Ararnco. Ihe
prize was the rich oil-deposits Relieved
to lie beneath the sands of Buraimi and
the near-by settlement of Fahoud.
When, 12 months later, Britain and
France moved in on Egypt, those who had
followed the Burainai Oasis affair felt
that it had something to do with
America’s open hostility, particularly in
the light of the warning delivered to
Britain on Christmas Eve, 1955, by the
U.S. Secretary of State.
Mr. Dulles said then that Britain’s
activities in the Persian Gulf area
threatened Anglo-American relations,
and that events in Oman were moving
with such rapidity that nothing short of
an immediate understanding could
prevent an open U.S.-British split.
This sharp note received little publicity
at the time, and the* “understanding” was
never reached. — Blackgold (N.S.W.).
Mt. Isa Railway
Having travelled over that Townsville-
Mt. Isa railway quite recently, 1 can
vouch for the urgent need for reconstruc-
tion (B. 9 /1/’57). The trip takes from
27 hours upwards for 603 miles; for
hundreds of miles the line is unballasted
and speed must be drastically curtailed.
If Victoria and N. S. Wales are to be
asked to find the money for the recon-
struction, however, there is another
"aspect which should be considered before
any final decision is made. That is the
construction of a standard-gauge line
from Bowen through Collinsville to Mt.
Isa. This has many advantages oyer the
Townsville route.
The coal and coke used at Mt. Isa
come from Collinsville and Bowen
respectively. * A direct line would save
hundreds of miles of haulage and result
in substantial reduction of smelting-
costs. Not long after Mt. Isa Mines com-
menced large-scale operations, the com-
pany proposed to build this line at its
own cost, but the then Queensland
Government rejected the idea because of
the loss of freight which would follow.
Another advantage of the Bowen-
Collinsville-Mt. Isa route is that Bowen
is the second-finest port on the Queens-
land coast and could be developed to
handle any traffic offering. As a site for
a refining Works it is superior to Towns-
ville, with a less-trying summer climate.
Near by there is enough good agricultural
land to feed a city of 100,000 people.
(There is no agricultural land round
Townsville and all supplies of fruit and
vegetables have to be imported. Bowen
has been a large-exporter for 30 years.)
A further advantage of a direct line
tapping the mineral wealth of Mt. Isa
and Mary Kathleen —and the pastoral
wealth of the Gulf and Territory—is the
attraction of Bowen a site for large-
scale meatworks. Were*there a standard-
gauge line from Bowen to Mt. Isa, with a
standard-gauge spur to Dajarra, many
thousands of Territory cattle could be
transported to works at Bowen in a frac-
tion of the time it now takes to bring
them to Townsville. .
The Federal Treasurer has lately
estimated that the reconstruction of the
Townsville-Mt. Isa line might cost £3O
million. It should cost little more than
that to build the direct line from Bowen.
— D. C. Tilghman (N.S.W.).
Mr. Brown and the Marchioness
By W. E. FITZ HENRY
At different times over the past six months or so Bill
Fitz Henry was off duty from “The Bulletin” office working on
the book he Was writing under his Commonwealth Literary
Fund* grant, and this delightful reminiscence-vignette of “Mr.
Brown and the Marchioness” (and of Bill himself) came in
from him as a contribution during the last of those temporary
absences —almost certainly an extract from his book, and an
indication of what is likely to be there to charm readers when
eventually the book is published.
N EARLY 40 years ago,
when I joined The
Bulletin as an office-
boy, I was a small, cocky
street-Arab who knew all the
lanes and alleys of the city from
the ’Loo to Ultimo and from
Circular Quay to Strawberry
Hills.
I knew little, however, about
office work, and Harold Burston,
the pleasant, bustling, sun-
tanned young man who had
engaged me, placed me under
the charge of a gnomelike person
who sat in a cubbyhole at the
top of the stairs that led from
the ground-floor to the editorial
department.
The gnome—a' Mr. Brown —
was less than sft. high. He had
a monumental forehead, china-
blue eyes and a clipped \yhite
moustache. He always wore a
frock-coat, a high, stiff collar
and an old-fashioned cravat. He
liked fancy white waistcoats
with pearl buttons, and was
never without a carnation in the
buttonhole of his frock-coat.
Mr. Brown was very old—
more than 80 years of age, in
fact. Heaven knows how he
drifted into The Bulletin
office, though it was said that
William Macleod had rescued
him from an old men’s home.
He was a crusty bachelor and
lived in a small room in a resi-
dential in Cumberland-street on
The Rocks. When illness kept
him away from the office
Margaret Cox-Taylor, the social
editress, used to send me to his
place with a bag of bananas
and a bottle of calves’-feet jelly.
There always seemed to be a lot
of empty bottles under his bed,
which used to puzzle me at the
time.
Mr. Brown was an English-
man, and had been a lace-worker
in Nottingham. He was a fer-
vent High'Churchman and sang
hymns to himself all day long.
Every Sunday he would walk
all the way from The Rocks to
St. Saviour’s, Redfern —then
(under Father Maclean) nearer
to Rome than any of the many
Anglo-Catholic churches in the
Sydney Diocese at that time.
Mr. Brown disliked small
boys, but on his deathbed he
bequeathed me his entire library
Thomas a Kempis’s The
Imitation of Christ and Dinah
Mulock’s John Halifax, Gentle-
man.
John H. was a poor but honest
working boy, and Dinah’s story
was intended to illustrate the
doctrine that the character of
a true gentleman resided in
integrity and nobility of purpose,
rather than in birth and wealth?
I am afraid that the book did
not impress me, my hero at the
time being Gil Bias, of Le Sage’s
picaresque romance.
A gentleman of queer habits,
Mr. Brown ate stews, which he
kept simmering on a kerosene-
heater in his cubbyhole all day
long, winter and summer. Every
day he drank an imperial quart
of sarsaparilla lashed " with
Queensland rum and a cough-
mixture. He was invariably
rude to everybody, including
‘Livingston Hopkins (“Hop”),
the cartoonist. I suspect now
that old Mr. Brown was always
slightly tipsy. f
Notwithstanding his great age,
odd appearance and unusual
habits, Mr. Brown had a girl-
friend—a Signora Amati, dubbed
“The Marchioness” by Ernest
O’Ferrall (“Kodak ”). An
eccentric lady of uncertain age,
The Marchioness gave singing-
lessons to one lone anasmic pupil
in her isolated, tumbledown
cottage in the wilds of the
Bunnerong scrublands. There
she kept a herd of goats and
waged perpetual war against her
nearest neighbor, a Chinese
market-gardener named Wing
Lee.
The Marchioness used to
bring Mr. Brown bottles of
goat’s milk and, for his stews,
vegetables taken from the China-
man’s garden. \ She was, of all
things, a Maronite, and she and
Mr. Brown used to hold
acrimonious theological debates
in the cubbyhole during the
lunch-hour.
Mr- Brown always presented
her with a small bunch of
violets, wrapped in tissue-paper,
whenever she visited him. Once
he gave her a bottle of Bull Dog
stout and a pound of prawns.
When Mr. Brown died at
Sydney Hospital from some
bronchial trouble, The
Marchioness, whb was very
attached to the old fellow in
her strange fashion, was
genuinely disconsolate. She
invited me —still a mere boy—
to a funeral feast at her ram-
shackle home in the bush, a
mile or so beyond the Botany
tram-terminus.
At dusk on a tempestuous
Saturday afternoon in June four
of us sat down to a meal of
stewed goat’s meat and
spinach: myself, a small,
bewilderecl boy in short trousers;
The Marchioness, in the robes
she wore when she was once
Queen of a Labor Day proces-
sion in a country town; her
pupil, a faded damsel who ran
a haberdashery out Cook’s River
way, and who had served a
stretch for telling fortunes ; and
Wing Lee, the market-gardener,
with whom The Marchioness had
made peace for the solemn
occasion.
Wing Lee, an amiable
Oriental, had brought a supply
of Chinese wine, a paperbag of
cumquats and a jar of pre-
served-ginger for the feast.
After the meal The Mar-
chioness sang some of Mr.
Brown’s favorite hymns; the
haberdashery woman told our
fortunes with a pack of Tarot
cards ; and Wing Lee, whom I
gathered had met and liked Mr.
Brown, went outside and let off
fireworks in the dark, wild night,
frightening the devil out of The
Marchioness’s goats and a snake-
charmer who lived in a humpy
along the track from the tram.
At this stage two drunken
fishermen from Yarra Bay, with
a couple of halfcaste girls from
the aboriginal settlement at La
Perouse, wandered in and began
to make heavy inroads into the
Chinese wine. The Marchioness
decided that it was time I was
sent home. Accordingly, I was
packed off with an oleograph
of King Humbert of Italy, the
cumquats and, the ginger and
a parcel of books: Thus Spake
Zarathustra, by Nietzsche; The
Fifteen Comforts, of Matrimony,
a translation of a 15th-century
French satire on women ; and a
book on Joanna Southcott,
English religious fanatic and
demented prophetess —all queer
reading for a boy not 16.
The Marchioness, who became
increasingly erratic with the
passing of the years, continued
to haunt The Bulletin office
for a long time after old Mr.
Brown’s death.
Looking as if she had ridden
into the office on a broomstick,
smelling strongly of incense,
camphor, goat’s milk and
Chinese wine, she would trap
me in the cubbyhole at the top
of the stairs, to which I had
been promoted on Mr. Brown’s
exit from this world.
There she would deliver a
harangue on the necessity of
uniting all the relig’ions of the
world in one common faith,
excluding Anglo - Catholics,
whom she disliked, \despite her
devotion to the memory of the
deeply lamented Mr. Brown. She
was a great trial.
Young and as uninfluential as
I was, she troubled me for years.
It was a standing joke in the
office that the old girl had tickets
on me —that I had replaced old
Mr. Brown in her affection.
All I know is that The
Marchioness was the forerunner
of innumerable eccentrics who
have plagued me throughout my
long newspaper career, and who
have made me sometimes wish
that I had a job just opening
and shutting a gate on the
Queensland-N. S. Wales border.


Adult sheep should
be drenched for the
control of internal
parasites about four
weeks prior to lamb-
ing, particularly if
the laitibing takes
place in the winter.
The grazier who fails
to do this may find
that the lambs will
soon be heavily
infected with worms
and will make very
slow growth. And the
importance of using
Elastrator Rubber
Rings for marking
and tailing the lambs
soon after birth must
not be overlooked.
The ring method re-
duces set-back and
the risk of fly-strike
and is a safeguard
against germ-infection
which could be fatal.
Ideal for cutting
FIREBREAKS!
'•■■■■V- . , ..
. - '
■
mmmmm
* ■
NOW USED IN
12 COUNTRIES
’ARTHUR’
■OHM
SUSHI
PAT. NO. 156596
solves all your
pasture control
p problems!
CHOICE OF CHAINS, KNIVES
AND PASTURE TOPPING ENDS MAKES IT
WORLD’S MOST VERSATILE SLASHING MACHINE
1. CHAINS. For clearing rough, uneven
ground of regrowth, bracken, thistles, ti-
tree, horehound, onion weed, broombush,
•etc. Cuts Bft. swathe at 2-4 $ m.p.h.
2. KNIVES. For clearing even ground of
dense, sappy growths or fibrous growths
such as rushes. Cuts 6-7 ft. swathe at
2-4 m.p.h. . . . forward or reverse.
3. PASTURE TOPPING ENDS. For
topping seeds and fleece infesting burrs
and clearing occasional sappy growth in
even pastures where there are no obstacles.
Cuts 7-B£ft. swathe at 3-5 m.p.h.
ft Ghains, knives and topping ends quickly
interchangeable, ft Clears 5-7 acres hr.
for approx. ]/- acre, ft Also ideal for
clearing flood debris, cutting fire-breaks,
stubble mulching, etc. ft Adjustable fric-
tion type coupling cushions shock loads,
ft Disc rides in centre of swathe and auto-
matically controls working height of
chains by following ground contours,
ft Fits any tractor P.T.O.
Price, complete with chains and all
fittings, £l9B, F.0.R., F. 0.8., all Capital
Cities. Knives and Topping Ends optional
extra, £l9/10/- complete set.
TODSON
For further particulars write to the manufaaturen.
J. TODD & SON LIMITED
639 South Rd., Edwardstown, South Australia
DISTRIBUTORS: S.A.: Elder, Smith & Co.' Ltd. ; Power Plant Ltd. VIC-: William
Adams Tractors Pty. Ltd.; Bishops Implements Pty. Ltd. W.A.: Wigmores Ltd.,
Wesfarmers Co-op. Ltd. N.S.W.: Sun Co. Pty. Ltd., Lidcombe; British Tractors Pty.
Ltd., Rosebery. Q’LD: Day & Grimes, Kingaroy, Gympie, Nambour; Carlisle Motors,
Mackay. TAS.: “Fordson” Dealers. N.Z.: Andrews & Beaven Ltd., Christchurch.
Export inquiries to the Manufacturers.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
PREPARATION OF THE CLIP
PREPARATION of the
1 average wool-clip in the
shearing-shed is no longer a
straightforward proposition for
the woolgrower. Depending on
several factors, the principal ones
being the size and evenness of
„the clip, a decision to shed-class
can cost the grower more
money in additional classing- or
handling-charges, and a lower
return on his clip.
Until a comparatively few
years ago the woolgrower
handled the job of preparing his
; clip for market himself, by
making a business arrangement
i with a woolclasser. The classer
did a good job working in the
shearing-shed, and the clip was
sent off to the woolbroker, who
handled its showing and selling.
Today, the woolgrower can
still shed-class, but when the
clip goes off to the broker the
latter is as likely as not to order
half of it blended, or reclassed,
or some of it to be sent to a
wool-pool, and the charges for
these services are deducted from
the grower’s cheque. And
recently there’s been talk, on a
conference-level, of interlotting,
Against these various re-
handling systems, the grower can'
now bundle-up his clip and send
it to a city classing-establishment
for complete preparation.
This transition is quite recent,
and probably affects over half
the woolgrowers in New South
Wales. And it has become high
politics in the State’s wool-
circles.
Here is my assessment of the
principal differences in shed-
classing and central/ classing
nowadays.
Blending is an old system,
introduced by brokers when
star-lots (under five bales) began
to require too much floor-space
and selling-time. Large numbers
of star-lots are matched for
general type, length, etc., mixed,
and repacked under a common
brand.
It was put to good purpose
initially, but with still more star-
lots from still more sheep-men,
its effective Use, in my opinion,
is restricted to even bales.
Interlotting, which has been
tried before, faces the same
factor —the mixed content of
many of the star-lots now
coming forward.
Good wool-men shudder at the
thought of such bales being
classified for blending or inter-
lotting without being emptied-
out. While a bale should run
true to form, the proof can only
be seen when it is emptied-out.
Why should the contents of
several other bales with which it
is linked suffer because it
doesn’t? If rehandling is
directed by the broker, then the
woolgrower doesn’t know any-
way ; and in any case he has
little redress.
, The main argument advanced
by the city classing-establish-
ments for the right to do tlje
grower’s preparation is that they
cater for the market’s require-
ments, both in providing more
big lots, and in improving the
the effectiveness of the classer’s
work.
The problem is obvious in New
South Wales. Four bales con-
stitute a big lot in Victoria,
which helps there; but Queens-
land sale-catalogues carry eight
and 10 pages of star-lots
regularly. The growth in wool-
production and the resistance of
buyers to small lots and lots of
questionable evenness —whether
big or small—has been respon-
sible.
There is a very big difference
in the work of the classer in
shed-classing and cent r ad
classing.
In the shed, he classes into big
Jots' and allows the rest of the
clip to fall into star-lots. His
first consideration is to get out
several big-lot lines. This has
problems, as most woolclassers
will admit. The classer. must
work fast. The main lines are
pressed-up progressively, and the
tail very often varies from the
first bales pressed.
Most classers realise this, and
some keep samples in an effort
to check it, but the difficulty
cannot be entirely overcome. The
main lines must be bulked as
much as possible into big lots.
At the end of the job a little
over half the clip (of up to 45
bales and often more) will be big
lots, and the rest stars and odd-
ments.
In the city* classing-houses the
woolclasser does a complete
classing job. He can do this
because the system here is to
pool all wools which do not
make big lots (the big lots, the
classing-houses point out, go for
sale under the grower’s station-
brand). As the great majority of
the pool-wools are sold as big
lots, the grower makes his first
gain—nearly all his clip will be
marketed in big lots.
Secondly, the big lots made
by the classer are fnore even-than
if shed-classed. The whole of the
clip is laid-out throughout the
entire classing. In fact, all his
lines are more even, and such
questions as “tail” do not occur.
Thirdly, it is pointed out, one
or two, and occasionally eight
or nine, of the pool-lines will
return more pence a pound than
the big-lot main-lines.
This last point is not usually
realised, because of a modern
misconception regarding wool-
pooling, which has changed over
the years. Pooling originally
embraced only oddments such as
locks, bellies, black and dead
wool. Now, the modern pool has
a range of five or six hundred
types, and a big percentage of
the wool is fleece-wool of first-
class quality.
At what point, then, does the
woolgrower decide to do away
with shed-classing?
The best answer I have heard
is: at the point where a clip
makes an excess of star-lots in
being classed to meet the current
market. As a rule, that generally
embraces a clip of 45 bales or
less, but it can take in a clip of
three times that size if it is
grown in two or more areas, or
if it comprises, in fact, several
flocks, as a result of a wool-
grower’s buying during a
particular year.
Costs are difficult to define,
but looking at a 40-bale clip well
classed in the shed, and working
with conservative figures, the
difference in shed - and central
classing would work-out some-
thing like this:
Shed Classed
12,0001 b. at lfd, per lb. £B7 10 0
40001 b. blended at 2d.
per lb .. .. 20 10 0
9001 b. „ pooled at 3d.
per lb 11 0 0
Total £llB 0 0
Centrally Classed
12,0001 b. at 3d. per lb. £l5O 0 0
Difference .. £32 0 0
There are other factors,
however. The cost of shed-
classing can be much higher and,
depending on what labor is
employed to assist it, can nearly
wipe out the financial difference.
So, too, can a delay of a week
due to wet weather.
Centrally classed, a clip should
realise, at the very least, a one
per cent, improvement overall in
selling-—as a result of 'the better
"With bitters, old boy ”
classing job possible—and this
does not take into consideration
the fact that two or*three good,
big, pool-lines can add 20d. and
3Qd. a pound to the return if this
same wool' were sold in mixed
star-lots.
From the industry’s point of
view, the system has the decided
advantage that it is doing what
blending has failed to do-
it’s removing a great proportion
of mixed-star-lots from the
market.
A. S. Walker.
Bruising
“Noore”: At a fat-lamb
field-day recently conducted by
officers of the Queensland
Department of Agriculture and
Stock the effect of bruising was
demonstrated simply by lifting
a 351 b. lamb by the wool. This
b done frequently by lamb-
raisers and transporters.
The lamb was killed to reveal
the damage, and there was suffi-
cient bruising to condemn the
carcass for export.
Bruising is a major reason for
carcasses being rejected. It can
be caused by trampling in trucks,
dog-bites, sticks, kicks, and
general carelessness in handling.
North Queensland
Cannery
Touching on John Orrell’s
article on the need for a
pineapple-cannery in North
Queensland (B. 13/2/’57), about
the time that particular page of
The Bulletin went to the
printer the Queensland Minister
for Agriculture and Stock
announced that the Government
had accepted proposals made by
the Pineapple Sectional Group
Committee for the operation of
a cannery in North Queensland.
The committee’s proposals
were summarised as follows:
The present cannery to be
reopened after it has been
equipped with some additional
machinery, and to be operated
as a unit with Northgate and
Koongai.
Northern fruit to be paid for
at South Queensland prices, less
an amount representing Cairns’s
geographical handicap in canning
and marketing.
Pineapples in excess of local
capacity or below minimum
factory - requirements to be
transferred to Koongai or North-
gate for canning, to be paid for
as though canned in Cairns.
Such diverted fruit to be
inspected on receival in Cairns
and payment made accordingly.
Canning-quality will be taken
into consideration in grading.
A pool of cases to be estab-
lished in Cairns ; growers whose
fruit is diverted will receive the
loan of an equivalent number
from the pool.
The Department of Agriculture
and Stock to give special
attention to overcoming the
problem of fruit-quality in
certain districts. Failing a solu-
tion of the problem, cannery
acceptance will have to be
confined to areas producing pine-
apples of satisfactory canning-
quality.
A cannery similar to Koongai
to be established in Cairns as
soon as it becomes evident
that: The North will produce
for canning 4000 tons of good
canning-quality pineapples in a
year ; N.Q. growers are prepared
to become subscribers to C.O.D.
canneries; Finance can be
arranged for capital expenditure
against the Government
guarantee of £250,000 for this
purpose.
An approach has been made
to the Minister for Transport to
continue freight-concessions on
pineapples diverted to Koongai
or Northgate.
Mr. Collins said he thought
northern growers would be
pleased with the outcome of the
negotiations. They would have
all the financial benefits of a
modern mechanised cannery
pending the practical testing of
the area’s capacity to produce
the quantity of good-quality
pineapples necessary to maintain
a new cannery.
i' ./
* § r
Drenching
“8.R.”: Science has given the
sheep-man a whole range of
useful drenches to fight worms,
but their effects aren’t magical.
Unfortunately, many graziers
don’t realise that there’s just as
much to administering the dose
as there is to choosing it and
knowing when to apply it.
A drenching-gun in the hands
of a capable man is a deadly
weapon against worms, but used
carelessly it can waste costly
drugs, stain wool, let worms get
on with the job unaffected, and
even be deadly to the sheep it is
meant to protect.
Veterinary officers and sur-
prised salesmen of drenching-
guns and the drenches that are
used in them hear many reports
of sheep-men who are not only
disappointed, but downright
indignant, that their drenching
has not had the effect they
expected.
The men to whom these
complaints are made have a few
complaints of their own, which
should make rewarding hearing
for anyone disappointed by his
dr enching-progr amme.
The basic idea of drenching
is simple— to get the correct dose
of the drench down where it can
get at the worms. Man’s
ingenuity has developed the
drenching-gun for this purpose.
There are all sorts of
drenching-guns on the market
these days, each with its own
particular features, but no
matter how good or bad the gun
is in design, in operation it is
only as good as the way it is used.
Here’s a typical sort of report
too often seen in agricultural
newspapers':
Injuries inflicted during drenching
recently caused the death of about
25 sheep on a property in the
Cooma district. It is likely that many
more would have died if they had not
received treatment. Mr. M. Rqbinson,
the Department of Agriculture’s
stock-inspector, said that the owner
had damaged the linjng of the
mouths and pharynxes of the sheep
when drenching them with pheno-
thiazine, and abscesses had developed.
Another similar report told of
a grazier losing 200 of a flock
of 1000 weaners in the six weeks
after he had drenched them.
The drenching-gun had torn the
backs of their throats, leaving


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. ..... 2/r
Yearly Subscription..., iA 2216
Set off your home with a
-
J,
low cost
durable
roof in
HARDIES
(fafrCenttort' CoVtuyated
FIBROLITE
A “Fibrolite” New Contour Corrugated roof will protect your valuable
home for a lifetime. Made specially for Australian conditions, it is rustproof,
sea-air proof, minimises condensation, cool in summer and improves with
age. “Fibrolite” costs less too! The neat 3' side lap fixing offers you a
saving of up to 10% on the cost of roofing. Build the modern way specify
“Fibrolite” New Contour Corrugated Sheets for an economical, durable
and attractive roof. Write today for further information on the roof that
is right for life.
“Cut your roofing overhead with
Hardie's New Contour Corrugated "Fibrolite”Asbestos-Cement Sheets**.
Sole Manufacturers:
JAMES HARDIE & COY. PTY. LTD.
Cnr. York & Barrack Streets,
Sydney.
Box 3935, G.P.0., Sydney.
Newcastle Office: 324-326 King
Street.
Please send me illustrated leaflet for “FIBROUTE”
New Contour Corrugated Roofing FREE and
POST FREE.
NAME
ADDRESS
CH42/66/B
STOCKED BY LEADING HARDWARE AND TIMBER MERCHANTS
the sort of wounds that are open
invitations to bacteria. Infection
deVeloped, which penetrated to
the brain.»
Hasty or careless jabbing with
a bare metal-nozzle on the gun
is just asking for trouble; the
delicate membranes of the mouth
and throat take the punishment.
Metal nozzles get scarred by
teeth-marks. Plastic tubes may
crack or chip with use or age,
losing their flexibility and
becoming sharp jagged tools that
can kill a sheep as effectively,
if not as quickly, as if you
stabbed it with a knife.
Careless drenching can hurt
the wool-cheque not only
indirectly, by damaging the
health of sheep, but directly, by
staining wool.
Phenothiazine is the best
drench against barber’s-pole
worm —the worm graziers should
have been tackling early in
February —but it can stain wool.
The right place for it to go is
straight down the gullet, to the
stomach, but if it’s discharged in
the mouth or throat the sheep
coughs and slobbers, and, not
content with getting it on its own
fleece, wipes it off on other
fleeces.
That’s bad, because this stain
doesn’t come out in the normal
scouring-processes wool goes
through-to make yarn.
This sort of damaging and
drenching might be caused by
the gun itself, the operator, or
a combination of both.
it was to try to cut down
these troubles that the McMaster
oesophageal drenching-tube was
developed at the C.5.1.R.0. Mc-
Master Animal Health Labora-
tory by H. V. Whitlock.
Its main feature, which has
been adopted by many manu-
facturers of guns, is a soft
rubber-tip on a tube that slides
well down the gullet of the sheep,
completely by-passing the mouth
and the throat before the drench
is shot in.
The soft rubber-tip is a big
help in preventing damage to the
delicate membranes of the mouth
and throat, and the longer tube
going well down into the gullet
dumps the dose too far down for
the sheep to cough it out over its
own and other, fleeces.
There’s a third danger in
drenching, again caused by the
drench not going to its proper
destination. If the dose is shot
down the windpipe instead of the
gullet, the grazier will have
sheep choking and spluttering,
and perhaps dying later from
pneumonia.
The McMaster tube, used
properly, really cuts down the
risk of this trouble.
It’s a pleasure to watch a man
with a good gun who knows his
job, working under proper
conditions for drenching, but
many of the races used for
drenching rule this out.
Many races are too wide, and
the sheep can’t be kept under
control properly. Too often it’s
mote like an all-in wrestle to get
the sheep to take its medicine,
and tempers get frayed at both
ends of the drenching-gun.
A man spending half his effort
trying to keep the sheep in posi-
lion generally isn’t too choosy
about how the gun goes in, and
that’s when sheep are likely to
get damaged throats, cough and
splutter their dose out again, and
knock themselves about.
The only one likely to benefit
from this sort of performance is
the worm, and the final result
might be something that makes
the grazier wish he’d never
thought of drenching.
A' well-built race about 2ft.
wide is generally the most satis-
factory, although on a' big
property it would probably pay
to have two races—a larger one
for grown sheep and a smaller
one for young sheep.
There’s a big contrast between
a well-constructed race and some
of the ramshackle old bush-
timber affairs with protruding
ends and nails to tear wool and
bruise carcasses. You still see
them.
Sheep being given a strategic
drenching early in the year
against build-up of barber’s-pole
worm in the autumn are probably
in good condition, but if treat-
ment is left until they are heavily
infested with worms they are in
no condition to go through a
wrestling-match in a race that
won’t confine them properly.
That touches on another point
—bringing the sheep in for
drenching. There’s no heed to
starve them before or after
drenching. In fact, if you are
using carbon-tetrachloride, it’s
a bad thing to have the sheep
away from their feed more than
a few hours.
If you are using this drug,' it’s
best to have the sheep mustered,
drenched, and back in their own
paddock by early afternoon —
midday, if possible.
On the other hand, if you’re
using arsenical drenches, it’s a
good idea to keep sheep away
from water for a few hours after
they’ve been drenched.
Run through the drenching-
programme in your mind before
you start it in practice, and
check on ways you can make it
easier for both the sheep and
yourself.
First of all, it pays to check-
up on the drenching-gun itself.
After all, it has probably seen
quite a bit of use, and any
instrument is likely to get out
of adjustment.
Check the size of dose it is
delivering by squirting a dose
into a measuring-glass. Too
much might be a waste of money.
Too little might mean poor
control of worms.
Make sure it is working freely,
and not likely to stick and miss
doses or give short-measure.
If it has a plastic tube on the
end, make sure the plastic is still
flexible so that it can follow the
gullet, and that it has no sharp
edges.
The whole idea of drenching
is to protect the sheep from
damage—not bring on a crop of
abscesses, or kill it with pneu-
monia. It’s not much good if
you save the sheep from worms
only to have it die from the
drenching.
Parasites on Pastures
“L.”: The popular belief that
improved-pasture means more
worms in sheep should get a
knock from C.5.1.R.0. work at
Armidale (N.S.W.): experiments
confirm that sheep on sown
pasture carry lower worm-
burdens than those on native
pasture. .
Scientists and progressive
graziers knew that; but many
graziers weren’t convinced. The
reason for sheep on improved-
pasture haying fewer worms
than their neighbors who
roughed it was thought to be the
higher level of nutrition (and
consequent resistance) of sheep
on improved-pasture. Now it is
suggested that there is a greater
intake of infective lame from
native pasture.
This explanation appeared
i ikely whe n the worm-burdens
did y not j ncrease after the
nutritional level of the improved-
pasture was made low artificially
pasture was maae low aruncicuiy.
tbe same > t s wise ,. to kee P
the sheep’s nutrition well m mind.
when tackling worms. It s known
that resistance to stomach '
worms is lowered during seasons
such as late summer, when even
sown pasture is poor nu rition-
all Y. For this reason, handfeed-
ing and strategic drenching are
recotnmended to prevent set-
backs of weaners around this
time of the year.
I
Vetches
“Stroma”: Although vetches
have never been encouraged
much as legumes in eastern
Australia —possibly because of
their reputed smell, which
damages wheat-quality—they are
used with advantage in Western
Australia.
One of their uses, says an
authority in W.A. “Agricultural
Journal,” is in a shandy hay-
mixture with oats —in dairy-
ing districts a seeding of 151 b. of
Commercial Purple vetch, \\
bushel Algerian oats and 2cwt.
super, per acre in May or early
June. One-flowered vetch is
better for the drier areas.
Grazing the crop in the winter
and early spring helps to prevent
the vetches being smothered by
the more vigorous oats. The best
time to cut the shandy is when
the first pods begin to form (for
silage) and when the pods begin
to swell (for hay). Yields of up
to 3£ tons of high-quality hay
per acre have been produced
in experiments.
Discovery of a vetch which
does not harm wheat may lead
to the greater use of vetches in
eastern Australia.
Hormone Insecticide
“T.D.”: A potent new insect-
hormone, extracted for the first
time, holds promise of an
insecticide against which pests
cannot develop resistance.
The hormone prevents meta-
morphosis, the process by which
insects change form, as when
caterpillars change into butter-
flies.
Dr. Carroll M. Williams, of
Harvard University, has stated
that extracts of this hormone
from the male Cecropia silk-
worm, used with petroleum-
ether, created freak insects which
soon died.
Reporting his work in the
British journal “Nature,” the
.scientist said the extract was
applied to the outside of an insect
in the pupal stage of develop-
ment. The result was an insect,
part pupa and part adult, which
soon died.
Flies, ’roaches and other pests
have developed resistance to
virtually every insecticide
developed by science. Since it
is unlikely an insect can evolve
resistance to its own hormones,
Dr. Williams says, the newly-
extracted hormone will probably
be an effective permanent
insecticide.
A good deal of work remains
to be done before the stuff can
be produced in the laboratory,
much less mass-produced and
marketed. But it certainly sounds
promising.
Citrus Pest
“Bill C.”: Large red-brown
moths can be a real pest in citrus-
orchards, piercing ripening fruit,
especially mandarins, and
causing them to drop off. We
found that the moths drowned
themselves in thousands in a
molasses-storage tank near by.
The bottom halves of 4gal. oil-
drums and kerosene-tins half-
filled with molasses and attached
to the trees proved 100 per cent,
efficient. Diluted treacle would
doubtless be as attractive as
molasses.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type. Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students 'in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(10/2/’57)
Queensland should receive fairly heavy rains during
March, and this could lead to widespread flooding,
particularly on the north coast and in the central-west and
south-west. _
General rains are likely in N.S.W. during March, with
the heaviest falls on the north coast. Good follow-on rains
are likely during April and May; in May severe flooding may
occur on the north coast.
Victoria should experience reasonably good rains in
March, although the Wimmera, western districts and Gipps-
land may get only light to moderate rain. April should be
a month of poor rainfall.
General rains in March are likely in South Australia,
with the heaviest falls in the upper north. April is likely
to be a poor month.
* In W.A., in March, heavy rains are likely in the
Kimberleys and north-west, with good falls in the West
Gascoyne and south coast. April should be mainly dry in
the whole of the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd..
Box 2521, G.P.O.,.SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to "The Bulletin," to
be posted weekly to—■
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £ 1/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the •sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
that’s what we’ll do. We’ll fix
it all up tomorrow morning
early.” *
In the morning we discovered
that the cow had died.
“Doesn’t matter now,”' Mc-
Gregor said, taking his speci-
mens, “but I’ll have to work on
this like mad.”
“Saves us trouble,” my uncle
said to me. “You stoke up the
furnace, my boy; then help me
cut her up. We’ll burn every
skerrick.”
“But Ferris saw her there,” I
objected. “He’s sure to suspect
something.”
“Don’t worrf about Ferris,”
Uncle Reimer said with one of
his old winks; “leave him to
your old uncle,”
'T'HE policeman arrived,
followed by about thirty
dairymen, all frantically curious
and distrustful, and simmering
with a barely-curbed hostility
which made my skin creep with
apprehension.
There wasn’t a sign of.the
old cow, though the
boiler was fizzing dizzily, and
the pressure-gauge hand seemed
stuck fast on the “Danger” side
from all the fuel we had put
on the furnace. In the stall,.a
robust and healthy cow munched
away at a pile of hay. Mc-
Gregor remained working in a
single-niinded passion in his
laboratory while Uncle Reimer
went out to meet the intruders.
“Try to look as if you’re
enjoying yourself,” he advised
me out of the side of his mouth.
He greeted the visitors affably:
“You’re just in time to celebrate
with us. At last we’ve succeeded
in our search for a cure for
pleuro-pneumonia.”
The policeman, who looked as
if he had his own opinion of
hillbilly dairymen, was favorably
impressed by my uncle’s manner,
but Ferris directed mean little
glances at the other farmers.
They were not going to be taken-
in while he was around.
“For weeks we had our cow-
patient on thq point of death,”
Uncle Reimer continued. “My
neighbor, Mr. Ferris here, saw
her when she was at her worst.
Would you mind, Mr. Ferris,
describing that cow’s condition
as you saw it, to these
gentlemen?”
They all turned to Ferris,
trapped into giving testimony in
favor of the city smarties. His
eyes shot wildly from side to
side.
“Come on,” ’ my uncle
encouraged him genially, as if
the man was too nervous to
speak, “did she look nearly
dead?”
A flicker of cunning passed
over Ferris’s face.
“She looked as if you were
nearly killing her.”
He gave the policeman a
significant glance. Uncle Reimer
smiled tolerantly.
“Some of you who have had
nasty operations,” he said, “must
have thought that the doctors
were cruel. But you didn’t think
that when you got better, did
you?” '
“Certainly not,” the police-
man agreed heartily.
My uncle smiled again on the
still hostile dairymen.
“Come and have a look at the
cow now.”
All the dairymen crowded
round the door as Uncle Reimer
unlocked it with a flourish. They
were all sure that when it came
to cows there would be no fool-
ing them. But when the con-
tented cow looked round at
them inquiringly, a bundle of
hay trailing from its mouth,
there was no mistaking the
grudging surprise on their faces.
“You’ve done it, sir,” said the
policeman. “My warmest
congratulations.”
But Ferris was examining the
cow.
“Is this the same one?” he
demanded.
I could see that he was uncer-
tain of himself, because my
uncle’s cows, unlike the rest of
the cows in the valley, were
purebred and as alike as sheep.
“Have a look at this.” Uncle
Reimer indicated a mark on the
cow’s side. It was a small wound
neatly stitched together. “We
had a couple of rubber tubes
inserted in here to get specimens
of the fatal fluid from her
lungs.” - J-
“There you are,” exclaimed
the policeman; “that was what
you were calling your ‘cruelty to
dumb animals’! I hope you’re
satisfied now.”
The farmers looked at each
other, quie confounded. They
formed little groups, whispering'
secretively together.
PRESENTLY Ferris, still full
* of menace, raised his voice.
“What we want to know is
what you are doing in the next
room with all that queer
machinery?”
“That’s where we make the
medicine that cures pleuro,” said
my uncle, as if any child would
know it.
“We want to have a look at
it,” Ferris demanded.
Uncle Reimer took a glance
at the policeman to see if he
could safely deny them
admission. But the policeman
moved over to the door expect-
antly as if he had his instructions
in regard to that, too ; apparently
Uncle Reimer’s essay in distilla-
tion was known to the local
authorities.
“Wait a minute,” my uncle
said firmly, while my heart
began to pound so much that it
interfered with my breathing.
“We’ve got things at a very
critical stage; our first com r
mercial-size batch coming up.
If we all go barging-in now we’ll
upset McGregor and ruin
hundreds of pounds’ worth. I’ll
go in first to warn him.”,
He beckoned to me to follow
and bolted the door behind us.
I was so excited I could hardly
speak.
“I’ve got the gun hidden in
here. Shall I get it and keep
them back if they try to rush the
door?”
“Take it easy, my boy,” said
Uncle Reimer, and went to
speak to McGregor.
McGregor was still working
with intense concentration.
When he at length looked up he
had a baffled, frustrated expres-
sion on his face.
“I’ve done all I know,” he
said; “I’ve got chemically-
perfect milk,’ that analyses just
like cow’s milk; it tastes like
milk, and it smells like
milk, but just look at the color! ”
He turned on a tap in his
apparatus at the end opposite to
where the grass was fed in and
drained out a small quantity of
liquid. It was as green and as
clear as creme-de-menthe. He
looked at it disgustedly, but
Uncle Reimer smiled broadly
with relief.
“That gives us a chance to live
a bit longer,” he said. He turned
to me. “Hand me some of those
empty bottles, and help me fill
them.”
Then he went and opened the
door.
“You can come in now,” he
said. “You are the lucky ones;
the first to get a chance of buy-
ing the only genuine cure for
pleuro-pneumonia in cattle.”
T'HE dairymen came in,
8 cautious and suspicious still.
They stared at the apparatus
that was designed to put them
all out of business with blank
uncomprehending faces, keep-
ing well away from the hissing
boiler. Uncle Reimer drew off
a quantity of the green liquid
into a bottle and passed it
around. They all looked at it
dubiously and handed it on
without comment. The police-
man, however, tasted and "smelt
it in a businesslike manner.
“Seems familiar,” he said
brightly. “I know that smell,
and I know that taste too. Now
what in hell does it remind me
of?”
I edged over to where the gun
vyas hidden while he thought
about it.
“Got me licked,” he said at
last, “but it must be wonderful
stuff to cure that cow the way
it did. I’ll buy a dozen bottles.
I’ve got some friends down on
the flats who would pay a fiver
a bottle gladly.”
“Your name will go down in
history, constable,” said my
uncle, “like the name of the first
man to appreciate the work of
Louis -Pasteur. Now, anyone
else want some?”
I pulled at his sleeve to get
him outside for a moment.
“Wouldn’t Ferris get it
analysed and find out what it
is?”
“Not him, he’s too primitive
to think of it. Besides, I need
THE MAGNOLIAS
Some streaked magnolia-flowers in my room
Shadow her absence, and her love,
Naked of leaves, curving above
The water, l replenish. Each day’s doom
Of falling petals brings a new bud out
From shy to sensual; all her phases
Move softly through the bare, dark mazes
Of the stems. Each day new petals fall, till doubt
' l . • . ■ -■ , ...
Makes a clear statement of beauty dropped away.
But she and I know love and time
Are friends in all that grows, and climb
Together those dark stems, until one day
I enter this empty room and find a leaf
Green-thrusting from its furry shell,
Winging the naked stem, and well
She knows and l know flowers are not for grief.
S.A.
GEOFFREY DUITON.
ME SPORTS STORE
“You forgot your change, sir!”
the money. A fiver a bottle
isn,t t 0 be sneezed at.”
To my surprise, one after
another, they began to buy it.
McGregor had no interest in
this trafficking. He kept on
making adjustments to his
apparatus, and adding ingredi-
ents here and there along the
line, all of which the dairymen
observed with a great deal of
awe and mystery.
Soon my uncle said to me,
“Run and get another lot of
bottles. We afford to turn
off this tap while it’s still run-
ning. Our cows never gave milk
as valuable as this.”
“Do you think it’s wise?” I
asked him, still uneasy. “What
do you think will happen when
someone tries it on a cow with
pleuro?”
“We’ll be gone before that
happens,” he said. “McGregor
will soon have the secret.”
I left it at that, though I felt
uneasy. I had dreamt about my
grandmother the night before,
and now each of Uncle Reimer’s
audacities seemed to be an invita-
tion for retribution to fall on us.
I hurried back to take a quick
look at the tap; I grabbed my
uncle by the arm.
“Isn’t the medicine changing
color?” I whispered.
At the same moment there
was a triumphant shout from the
absorbed McGregor. Quick as
lightning Uncle Reimer turned
off the tap, but he was too late.
Ferris jumped forward.
“Hold him back!” Ferris
shouted, taking command of the
dairymen. “Now we’ll see what’s
going on here!”
TTE turned the tap on again.
For a while it ran a cloudy
green, then before our astonished
eyes it turned white as milk.
Ferris put his grubby hand
under it, caught some of the
fluid and tasted it.
“It’s milk!” he shrieked.
“They’ve built a machine to
make milk out of grass! They’ll
ruin every dairyman in the
land! ”
All their suppressed hostility
broke loose. They gave a terrible
yell and began to punch and kick
all three of us. Ferris grabbed a
crowbar and rushed' at the
apparatus. For the first time
McGregor seemed to realise
what it was all about; he
jumped to save his machine and
took the full force of the crow-
bar on his head. I grabbed the
gun from its hiding-place, took
a wild, excited aim at Ferris with
three or four dairyfarmers
clutch flig ht me, and fired.
Immediately there was an
enormous explosion as if I’d
detonated a bomb/ I was only
vaguely aware of the roof flying
upwards and the walls falling
out.
AI7HEN I came-to I realised
’ * that my gunshot had hit the
overcharged boiler. There were
no dairymen about, only Uncle
Reimer standing among the
wreckage looking down
tragically at the apparently dead
McGregor.
“Ruined again,” he said, with
manly fortitude.
Suddenly McGregor moved.
“He’s alive,” I shouted. “He
can build another machine.”
But when McGregor
recovered consciousness a
couple of days later he couldn’t
remember a thing about his
successful formula ; and since all
his notes had been destroyed in
the explosion he had nothing to
help him recall it. Moreover he
had acquired a temperamental
but understandable aversion
from working with Uncle
Reimer.
T RETURNED home and told
my family.
My father and mother were
full of admiration and sympathy
for Uncle Reimer. Grand-
mother, however, flipped over
her pages for an adequate quota-
tion ; it dicln’t seem likely that
she’d find one in the ancient
Book when artificial milk and
boiler-explosions were involved,
but presently we heard her
triumphant cry.
“Who makes a mock of the
creatures who —what walk on
the earth, he and his works shall
in smoke and fire vanish.”
But time proved her wrong.
Before Uncle Reimer died he
had built-up a tidy fortune by
selling patent medicines for
dairy-cattle ; all made according
to his own inspired formulae.
Despite the advance in veterin-
ary knowledge and the wide-
spread use of antibiotics there is
still a steady sale for his brand.
.Down in the remote hill-districts
on the South Coast they swear
by it.


A nother Fontana ‘First ’
REACH FOR THE SKY
by Pci ill Brickhill
For the very first time this outstanding story of legless
war hero Douglas Bader is available in a cheap edition.
5/- From all Booksellers 5/-
COLLINS FONTANA BOOKS
THE BIBLE AS HISTORY
by
Dr. WERNER KELLER
Translated by Dr. William Neil
432 Pag es. 132 Illustrations and Maps
ARCHAEOLOGY CONFIRMS THE BOOK OF BOOKS
Retail Price in Australia 37/3 (postage extra)
Obtainable from all Booksellers
H ODDER & STOUGHTON LTD.
LOW’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY
A great political caricaturist tells the
absorbing, eventful story of his life. Illus.
37/3 (post 1/6).
A CENTURY OF
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT
IN TASMANIA: 1856-1956
Edited by F. C. Green.
21/- (post 9d.).
TWILIGHT FOR THE GODS
By Ernest Gann. The author of The High
and the Mighty tells the gripping story of
an old ship and her crew. Book Society
Choice.
18/9 (post lOd.).
AUSTRALIAN POETRY, 1956
Selected by A. A. Phillips—the year’s best
poems, chosen by a well-known poet and
critic.
12/6 (post 56..).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD..
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l
B 0363. MF 6466.
SO NEAR AND YET SO FAR
Emily Kimbrough
An amusing and endearing account of a trip
to New Orleans and the Evangeline country.
At all booksellers 26/-
WILLIAM HEINEMANN LIMITED
LONDON : : MELBOURNE : : SYDNEY : : AUCKLAND
Christmas, and saw them every day
safely to and from the theatre.
So it went on until, at thirteen,
Gladys decided that as an experienced
actress she should insist on a better
producer; picked on Beiasco, worried
Blanche Bates, his star in “The Girl of
the Golden West,” for an introduction,
and after a certain amount of run-
around, was allowed to await him after
the theatre. He evidently had plans
for her, because he immediately
rechristened her Mary Pickford, from
her maternal grandfather’s name and
her second Christian-name, Marie; and
then he asked why she had said her life
depended on seeing him: —
“Well, you see, Mr. Beiasco, I’m
thirteen years old, apd I think I’m
at the crossroads of my life. I’ve
got to make good between now and
the time I’m twenty, and I have
only seven years to do it in.... ”
“I see,” he said dubiously. “But
why all the hurry?”
“Mr. Beiasco,” I said, looking
straight up into his face now, “I
made up my mind that if I couldn’t
appear in a Broadway play this fall
I would give up the theatre for ever.”
Beiasco put her in “The Warrens of
Virginia,” written by William de Mille,
whose brother Cecil B. was in the
cast. The play ran well over a year,
on the road and on Broadway, from
autumn, 1907, to spring, 1909; but Mary
Pickford’s account is chiefly interest-
ing for Belasco’s rage at a late rehearsal
upon discovering that the property-
man had put maple-syrup instead of
molasses into the molasses jar:—
With that he dashed the jar into
a thousand pieces on the floor, and
began to jump up and down on the
sticky mess, thereby driving it deeper
and deeper into the beautiful
Oriental rug, . ..Mr. Beiasco sud-
denly made a sticky beeline for the
box where I was seated in frozen
immobility.
“Tell me, what did you think of
my performance?. ... .1 find it abso-
lutely necessary to break something
at least once before opening night
to keep the cast on their toes.”
When the Beiasco play closed down
all the family was scratching for a
living, and Mary was finally prevailed
upon by her mother to work at the
Biograph studios. She went, much as
to a fate worse than death, and
encountered David Ward Griffith, and
also an Irish actor, Owen Moore, who
was to be her first husband. Her first
day’s film-acting must have pleased
Griffith, because when she refused to
return for five dollars a day, being a
Beiasco actress and worth ten, he
agreed, and next day gave her the
leading role against Moore in
“The Violin Maker of Cremona.” She
must have been about fifteen then,
and it was her first love-scene:—
I shall never forget that moment
when Owen Moore put his arms
around me. My heart was pounding
so fast from embarrassment that I
was sure he could hear it.
They were stirring times, as when
Mr. Griffith grabbed her shoulders and
shook her: —
“I’ll show you how to do this
thing! Get some feeling into you,
damn it! You’re like a piece of
wood! ”
I reached down and bit him —the
first and last time I have bitten
anyone —and just as I did so
Lottie, who usually came with me
to the studio, sprang on his back,
grasped his ears and began pulling
on them as if they were the reins of
a horse.
She married Owen Moore secretly,
against her mother’s will, and although
she knew he drank heavily; she became
Griffith’s first “close-up,” although his
directors disapproved because they
were paying her a hundred dollars a
week by then and expected all of her
for their money. After a short time
with Carl Laemmle’s Independent
company, she returned to Biograph
and Griffith, who tried to play her
off against the Gishes; they had
another argument: —
“I’ll have no more back-talk from
you, you half-pint!”
And with that he gave me a rude
shove with his arm and threw me off
balance. I tripped and fell. From
my position on the floor, on one
elbow, in a most melodramatic
manner, and conscious of every
word and gesture, I scowled at him
and said:
“You call yourself a Southern
gentleman ! You’re not only a dis-
grace to the South but to the North
as well! Never speak to me again,
sir! I’m going back to New York!”
In short, she seems to have been
more than fond of Griffith, and enjoyed
herself immensely; it was probably this
touch of the hoyden in her that
endeared her to the world —the scene
in “Pollyanna,” for instance, where she
catches a fly: “Little fly, do you want
to gb to heaven? . . . You have!” —
was her own, impromptu, the result of
her horror of so much “unrelieved
goodness”; and it was she, working in
cahoots with Frances Marion, a San
Francisco journalist, who put so much
slapstick into “Poor Little Rich Girl”
that Mr. Zukor felt that her career had
been ruined for ever—it became one
of her greatest successes.
Another New York play with
Beiasco, and Mary Pickford might
have gone on being a stage-actress
when Adolph Zukor formed his
Famous Players company which
“would produce nothing but films of
five- to six-thousand feet, based on
the finest plays and with the outstand-
ing actors and actresses of the world:
This was the very thing I had
been waiting for.
She began with Zukor at 500 dollars
a week; her “Hearts Adrift” was her
most successful film to that time; her
“Tess of the Storm Country” saved
Zukor from bankruptcy; she began
to notice that film-houses always had
long queues for Mary Pickford films,
and not for other films. She began to
study film-finance; and by the time
Zukor merged with Goldwyn, Lasky
and Cecil de Mille as Paramount
Pictures Mary Pickford was getting
10,000 dollars a week, and that merely
as a guarantee against her receiving
50 per cent, of the profits of her films.
Which inspired Mr. Goldwyn (then
Goldfish), with whom she never got
on, to one of his best efforts, looking
from his office window and seeing Miss
Pickford in the street: —
“My God! Ten-thousand dollars
a week and she’s walking to the set
yet. She should be running!”
The rest of the book is about her
divorce from Moore, her marriage
with Douglas Fairbanks, her divorce
from Fairbanks, her brave meeting with
his new wife, her marriage to Buddy
Rogers, her adoption of two children,
the troubles of her brother Jack (his
first wife took the wrong pills), the
formation of United Artists, Charlie
Chaplin, bond-selling for war and
peace; but there is none of it to equal
the story of her early days, fighting with
Griffith, or the picture of the child-
actress finding lodgings for herself in
a strange city, stuffing her weekly salary
of twenty-five dollars into “a chamois
boodlebag I wore around my neck.”
This English edition has been photo-
graphed from the American edition
and put on thickish paper that enables
photographs to be printed on almost
every other page; it is therefore
sumptuously illustrated, and altogether,
considering what mawkish things have
been said about the life and acting of
“America’s Sweetheart,” is a surpris-
ingly good job.
Beyond Desire: Pierre La Mure
(Collins). A sentimentalised life of
Felix Mendelssohn by the author of
“Moulin Rouge.” Despite the emphasis
on love and its substitutes thfe book is
stodgy and pedestrian. Famous
musicians plod through the pages
(Chopin, Schumann, Wagner, Liszt),
but the passion associated with their
lives is missing. The story moves over
the continent of Europe in the early
19th century, but its spirit is suburban.
Mendelssohn, talented, wealthy,
Jewish and international, has the
outlook of a tired businessman and
talks with the banality of the boy-
next-door.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 422
Across
I—Diddle1 —Diddle a century temperature.
(5)
4 —Doris is urged to behave like
an angry goat in time for
charitable work. (6-3)
9 Yours Truly is the thing often
taken by the doctor but it doesn’t
go with the doctor urge. (7)
10 — Club which revives the writing
capacity of a dry pen? (7)
11 — High-priest of Shiloh. (3)
12— Birth in auto-land. (11)
14 — Vowels after a light carriage
dance. (5)
15 — Steam is used by this painter.
(7)
16 — H-ours. (7)
18—Potentate with an overturned
shilling. (5)
20—Jay and another bird’s impu-
dence is next, and very close.
(5, 2,4)
22 A comment from the deprecatory
Pharaoh, (3)
23 Office of a Moslem chieftain
makes them furious. (7)
25—So associated with the other
tranquilliser. (7)
26 A Red seen in music. (8)
27 — Ideas given in a whisper. (5)
Down
1: —Celestial inspectors are game.
(7, 8)
2 Spotting. (7)
3 Maundering bed which doesn’t
keep mum. (7, 4)
4 They take the color out of cheap
seats at the Stadium. (9)
5 Figure an alternative singer. (5)
6 Brother turned an eye. (3)
7 Five hundred first-class false-
hoods in these publishers of day
by day affairs. (7)
8 — Concealing Troy in Turkey or
■ part of Canada. (5, 9)
13—An insect,, Yours Truly, and
William curtailed acknowledg-
ments of debt of use against
nausea. (4-7)
15—The cobra has little chance
against this 1000 on poultry. (8)
17 —In greater privation. (7)
19—Temporarily managed without
the better half quantity on
Edward. (7)
21 —Why that is 50d. to give. (5)
24 —Beard of the corn. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 421


mr
TO ANSWER EVERY NEED
THERE IS A COMPLETE RANGE OF GUARANTEED
TITAN CHISELS AND AUGER HITS
‘ •’ . . ' ' ’ • /;••••
• SPECIAL TOOL STEEL • TRUE TEMPERED • RIGIDLY TESTED
r t
r
«
/
v
~y.
r *»
