

WSL
I
BOLERO,
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
HEARING THE STARS -page «
Wednesday, April 3, 1957
Price 1/-
(HE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for. transmission .by post as a •newspaper.
DOVE COTTAGE, LAKE DISTRICT
HOME OF WORDSWORTH
DOVE COTTAGE, the home of the poet William
Wordsworth, is situated near the village of
Grasmere, in Britain’s Lake District.
William Wordsworth was born at Cockermouth,
a few miles away in Cumberland. The family
consisted of his sister. Dorothy; Richard, who
became a London solicitor; Christopher, who
became Master of Trinity College, Cambridge; and
John, who was drowned at sea.
William was educated at Hawkshead School
and later, with his'sister, Dorothy, moved to Dove
Cottage in 1799. In this humble dwelling can be
seen the room winch he and his sister
papered with newspapers in the days of their
poverty; the door they made leading into the
garden; the kitchen in w 11 idi'Dorotby - cooked the
meals; and the ground - where CWilliam dug and
planted his vegetables to cke' Out 'thtir slender
house-keeping .funds. In 1802 VVordsworth married
Mary Hutchinson, a childhood friend, and brought
her to live at Dove Cottage'-, in. T813.-they took
tip final residence at Rydal /Mfflcin-t, * overlooking
Rydal Water. It was there in 18.10 that'{he great
poet died and was buried iii .-Gi'asmere Churchyard.
Dove Cottage, however, js preserved for the
nation by the 1 >i>\e Cottage Trust. It can be
visited on weekdays .during the summer. The walls
are covered with portraits of Wordsworths family
and friends, and here can be seen many relics
ot the famous poet. . r
De Quincey. another of Lakeland’s literary
figures, was the tenant of Dove Cottage lor 2(5
years after the Wordsworths left the-house. Other
famous literary figures who either lived in the
Lake District, or spent .much of their time there,
were Robert Southey, Coleridge, , -Matthew
Arnold, Ruskin, Sit Hugh Walpole and Beatrix
Totter. _ : ,
No. 343: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


LEARN HOW TO WRITE
CERTAIN-TO-SELL
STORIES and ARTICLES!
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your Thoughts on paper,
STOTT’S Can Train You Successfully.
Note these extracts from letters received: 1
“My earnings from my writing total almost
£70.” (Les. 11.)
“During the past six mouths my accep-
tances have returned me over £200.”
“I list hereunder my acceptances to the
amount of £lO6/10/9.”
“I have had three articles accepted by 3LO
and broadcast by the A.8.C.”
“ ‘Walkabout’ accepted my article ‘Modern
Crocodile Hunting.’ The amount 1 shall
receive for this article alone will almost
pay for my Course.”
“I had four stories in the ‘Daily Mirror’
and one in the ‘Sun’ last week.”
Stolls Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlercagh St.,
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
——<CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S; Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
vour Literary Courses.
my NAME
ADDRESS
S.B. 757 AGE
lit) OK HUN TER. Rox 2C>n, <S.!*.(>., Sj.Jnrj.
A service for readers. That difficult to Obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if ,ua-
cess ful.
The Red Page
SONGS FROM LAWSON
John Meredith tells us in the fore-
word to Songs from Lawson (Bush
Music Club, Sydney) that “Lawson
was sung almost as much as recited,
and the usual custom was to fit the
words to any favorite tune which could
be easily adapted.”
The twelve songs in this booklet-
complete with music—are submitted as
“folk-songs in the making.” Some of
the tunes were written by composers
apparently associated with the Bush
Music Club—“ They were chosen from
about twenty other settings of Lawson
by virtue of their simplicity, directness
and similarity of style to the tradi-
tional tunes” —and the others are
described as “traditional.”
It would have added to the interest
and value of the collection if Mr.
Meredith had added footnotes stating
precisely where the “traditional” tunes
had been collected; and, if tunes can
be found for them, this reviewer would
have liked to see two little-known songs
of Lawson’s included, “There’s a Bunk
in the Humpy” and “Three Cornstalks,
the Squatter and the Well.”
These are both gay little items and
would have done much to offset the
sentimentality of “Reedy River” and
“The Bush Girl” and the rancor of
“Freedom on the Wallaby.” They
would have been all the more appro-
priate, as folk-songs if not as pure
Lawsoniana, in that both (especially
“There’s a Bunk in the Humpy”) have
the appearance of being old bush-songs
which Lawson took over and made his
own, as Mr. Meredith thinks he prob-
ably did with “The Shearer’s Dream”
and “Freedom on the Wallaby.” “The
Shearer’s Dream,” which would have
had a similarly enlivening effect, is
mentioned by Mr. Meredith in his fore-
word but not included in the contents.
As well as “Freedom on the
Wallaby,” “Reedy River” and “Bush
Girl,” the songs included are “Andy’s
Gone with Cattle,” “Ballad of the
Drover,” “Glass on the Bar,” “Lights
of Cobb and C 0..” “Song of the Old
Bullock Driver,” “Taking His Chance,”
“The Teams,” “Saint Peter” and
“Word to Texas Jack.”
Mr. Meredith’s enthusiastic claim
for Lawson as “our greatest national
poet,” equal if not superior to Burns
-—“lf he received the honor due to him,
perhaps one day we might hear Bobby
Burns referred to as ‘Scotland’s Henry
Lawson’ ” —must, of course, be dis-
counted a little. Lawson wrote very
few good ballads, very little poetry of
quality and could not seriously be com-
pared with “Banjo” Paterson, let alone
with Burns. His genius lay in the
short-story.
But their humanity, their “Aus-
tralianness” and their period-flavor do
combine to give these verses the quality
of folk-song, and their revival in this
format may well help to give them
fresh popularity.
The Ghosts of Versailles
It does not, on the face of it, seem
very likely that two respectable
English ladies, strolling through the
grounds of Versailles in 1901, on their
way to have a look at the little retreat
of the Petit Trianon which King Louis
XVI gave to Marie Antoinette for a
playground, should drop through some
sort of hole in time into Marie
Antoinette’s own period and see the
ill-fated queen sitting on the grass with
a sketchbook.
It seems still more unlikely that the
ladies, that same hot afternoon, should
have seen ghostly gardeners, a ghostly
woman waving from a ghostly cottage-
window, a ghostly Running Man who
was coming to warn Marie Antoinette
that the mob was approaching the
palace, another pock-marked ghost
with a heavy black cloak and an evil
expression (the Comte, de Vaudreuii)
and a Chapel Man who banged a door
that wasn’t there.
Granted that ghosts are not intrinsi-
cally more improbable than hippo-
potamuses and that many reputable
people claim to have played with them;
and granted that, it may be somehow
possible, as these ladies were obliged
to claim, to “see” past time by entering
into telepathic communication with a
ghost—the ladies said they partici-
pated in an “act of memory” by Marie
Antoinette—it still seems excessively
unlikely that these living ladies should
not merely see but walk over a rustic
bridge that wasn’t there and subse-
quently, to get into position to see the
Chapel Man, pass miraculously
through a solid stone wall.
Finally, granting that they did enter
the “act of memory,” and did some-
how waft over the bridge and through
the wall, it seems unlikeliest of all that
they should have been able to inter-
rupt the ghosts, chat with them and,
apparently without disturbing anybody
in the slightest, completely dislocate
Marie Antoinette’s ghostly reveries.
Surely if the Running Man were run-
ning to warn :he queen that the Revo-
lution was upon her he should have
kept on running, straight through the
two visitors, or jumping over their
heads if need be, instead of stopping
to chat.
Improbable as it all seems, this
charming tale has been held in con-
siderable esteem ever since Miss Annie
Moberley and Miss Eleanor Jourdain
first published “An Adventure” in
1911; even, though with reservations,
being accepted as a suitable text for
commentary by J. W. Dunne, the serial-
time man; and, because it has lately
been debated by the 8.8. C., it is the
pleasant task of Mrs. Lucille Iremonger
in The Ghosts of Versailles (Faber) to
re-examine it.
It cannot be sa;d that the story
sounds any the less unlikely after Mrs.
Iremonger has finished with it.
True, while claiming a “cool”
impartiality, Mrs. Iremonger comes
down on it very irefully indeed; often
spoiling her case by obvious unfair-
ness. Take, for instance, her portrait
of Miss Jourdain: —
Corpulent, tubby, pudgy, barrelly,
squat and frumpish are all words her
acquaintances have found apt....
That head is certainly worth
analysis. The protruding eyes,
drooping at the outer corners, with
their fiat stare, the bony beak of a
nose, the going-away chin and the
crest of fine silvery hair puffed
above, all emphasise that striking
birdlike first impression... .The
hands are far from beautiful,
although she affected rings and liked
to gesture with them. The fingers
are, in fact, unusually stubby and
well used ...
This is not kind; this is not “cool.”
It is feminine. And more, completely
disregarding the fact that a lady may
(Continued on page 66}


Phone B 0951
Box 2712 G.P.O,
Exclusive to Anthony Horderns 9 ••. Imported
UNI BINOCULARS
“Uni” 7 x 50 binoculars with centre focus, individual eye-piece and
coated lens. Complete with leather case and straps. £23/10/-, 6/9 wkly.
Unillustrated: “Uni” 8 x 30 binoculars, lightweight, centre focus,
individual eye-piece, coated lens. Complete with case, £lB/10/-, wkly.
Watches and Binoculars, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
« f' v • > w <
I |p •• |§|||§
liilii^^fcrt®iii
•> * , 2& *"','
& i
11
«•• •:; ■;
IVE A WATCH...BCY A WATCH
£l3/5/-
*
IS
f.
RP^liK
9^
3o
oO
cK
MS
£l7/8/6
m
m
b.° a *«r
UiJCOUNT
m
.
m
m
e
ra
£l3/3/6
oh easy terms
“FELCA,” £l3/5/-
Gent’s 17-jewel Swiss lever
watch, sweep second hand,
water resistant, dustproof
case, chrome steel back. 3/4 wk
“ROAMER,” c£l7/8/6
Gent’s 17-jewel Swiss lever
watch, water, dust, shock
proof. Chrome steel back.
Priced at only £l7/8/6. 4/8 wk.
“ROAMEE,” £l3/13/6
Gent’s 17-jewel Swiss lever
watch, sweep second hand,
water resistant, dustproof
case. Chrome steel back. 3/8 wk.


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4025
Wednesday, April 3, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FACELESS MEN
AUSTRALIAN “Labor”—the inverted
commas round its name become more
justified every week —presents just now
the uninviting spectacle of what appears
to be a Red and as-yet-h airless crow
emerging from a bespattered egg which
is the product of a union between the
Brisbane A.L.P. Conference and the
Communist party.
The Sairey Gamp who is supervising
its entry into the world is a Mr.
Chamberlain, president of the Federal
A.L.P., with Dr. Evatt for the moment
not very vocal and acting only as a
foil to his opposite-number in the role
of Mrs. ’Arris.
Labor has always lived by mili-
tancy, and militancy is the excuse for
the present attitude of Mr. Chamber-
lain, who, very firmly, says that
Labor can’t exist without it and that
it is the diet on which progress
towards the millenium must feed.
This may be perfectly correct, but
there is a vast difference between
militancy and lawlessness, and between
a policy which pushes forward on
evolutionary lines and one which is
based on violence, class-enmity and
-hatred and a determination to gain
whatever ends the party has in mind
irrespective of the country’s stability
and prosperity, or even of its security.
The policy of the new A.L.P., which
in N. S. Wales is in office in the
executive illegally and without election,
seems to have been reduced to the old
shearers’ summary of everything that
was vile in a world of mateship: “Blow
you. Jack, I’m all right.”
It is out to produce “Democratic
Socialism” because its leaders want
untrammelled power—power checked
only by the whims of a union-dictator-
ship and not by the law or any Consti-
tutional limitations or Parliamentary
supervision; the power of the bully in
industrial life exercised through a
preference in employment which will
close-out from a living, whenever the
supply of labor exceeds the demand,
those who will not knuckle-down to
the dictatorship, think as it thinks and
shout the slogans which it prescribes.
The ideal of this sort of “democracy”
—the word is used in exactly the same
sense as it is used by the Communists
—seems to have been reached in the
N.S.W. State Abattoirs in which the
union-leaders have held that it is an
infraction of the principles of union-
ism to help the management to enforce
honesty and the criminal law among
employees.
The heads and front of the new
Labor policy are, of course, Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Chamberlain, adopting
methods very much like those of a
pair of commissars, though they have
not their Kremlin opposite’s machinery,
fortunately, for seeing that their orders
are carried out. Nevertheless, as in
Russia, their ideal is a party of faceless
men under firm discipline whose think-
ing is done for them at the top.
Mr. Chamberlain is doing most of
the talking. He is not an Australian
but in the immigrant category with
Garden. Thornton, Healey, the late
Chapman of the A.R.U. and some
others who form a strangely large
proportion of Australian “militants”
with a leaning towards, or tolerance of.
Communism who have come here and
devoted themselves in time to leading
Australia towards the Left.
The A.L.P. has certainly moved to
the Left, until it is almost indistinguish-
able from the Communist party in
creed and method.
It has come to use the same phrase
to describe its sole objective as the
Communist party “Democratic
Socialism.” Anybody who has shown
a tendency to even moderate Rightism
has become the prey of the leadership
and its “hatchet-men” who pursue the
victim to the point of political liquida-
tion with ferocity and abuse.
Though, with the same tendency to
double-talk which marks the propa-
ganda of the Communist line, the
A.L.P. conference has professed some
mild objection to Russia’s actions in
Hungary, its foreign policy is on all
main topics the policy of the
Communists.
It insists on full support of Molotov’s
pen-friend Dr. Evatt in the leadership.
It threatens the dissident members of
the Federal House with loss of endorse-
ment.
It opposes the maintenance of Aus-
tralian military forces abroad in the
path of Iron Curtain hordes of sub-
version and conquest in Malaya and
elsewhere. It is opposed to the Rocket
Range and to rocket tests in Australia
and to hydrogen-bomb tests elsewhere,
though all its protests are aimed at the
United States and Britain. There is
inherent in its policy and the expression
of it an assumption that the Soviet
Union is a peace-loving country which
does not need to be appealed to in
the matter and which is regretfully
compelled to continue these distaste-
ful operations because of the aggres-
sive intentions of Mr. Macmillan,
President Eisenhower, and “the war-
monger Menzies.”
It is quite definite that the Federal
A.L.P. under the Chamberlain-Evatt
rule is not prepared to oppose Com-
munists even if it professes weakly to
be opposed to Communism.
Its agencies are clearly co-operating
to oust the moderate or anti-
communist leadership from great
unions, which, under people like
Thornton, were a menace to the safety
of the country and a constant centre of
disruption and industrial sabotage and
wrongdoing.
Mr. Chamberlain has said specifi-
cally that a capable union-leader
should not be displaced merely because
he is a Communist.
This means, in terms of hard fact,
that “a capable union-leader” should
not be displaced “merely because” he
is disloyal to the country; because (as
was proved by the admissions at the
Industrial Commission inquiry regard-
ing Thornton) he is willing to have bis
policy and plans made outside the
union in the Central Committee of the
Communist party; because he is pledged
to destroy the Constitution and drag
the Commonwealth behind the Iron
Curtain; and because he believes in
carrying the class-war to the limit,
backed by hatred and sabotage;
because he belongs to a party which
was proved at the Petrov Commission
inquiry to be afraid to keep books and
accounts, to have engaged in espionage
through its functionaries; to have been
hand-in-glove with the Soviet Embassy;
and to have been caught spying on
the Security Service in a way which
could have had no industrial signific-
ance but only a defence significance.
It is no wonder that the Right-wing
Labor is reported to be making
vigorous plans to oust the present
crbwd in N.S.W. at the June Confer-
ence, and that Labor men are leaving
the party in shoals.
It would be interesting to hear some
of the intimidated Federal members
who are so silent and wary living up
to their principles of militancy and
forthrightly expressing their opinions
on the present situation.


“HEIGH! HO! COME TO THE FAIR!”
“You speak their lingo, too, John?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Static Living Standards
Considerable interest is being taken in
Melbourne in the results of research by
the National Bank into Australian living-
standards, of which a precis is published
in the bank’s monthly summary for
March. These show our standards have
hardly moved in recent years.
Taking official figures, the bank gives
the average national income a head for
1955-56 as £457, compared with £445 in
1948-49, and personal consumption £350
and £336 respectively.
There has been no real change since
1948-49, when a peace-time economy
returned, more-or-less, but we have, of
course, added 20 per cent, to our popu-
lation, and the working-week has been
reduced from 44 to 40 hours.
The significance of the bank’s figures
of the mere fractional rise in the Aus-
tralian standard is that it compares so
poorly with the post-war strides in better
living made in Britain, the U.S., Canada
and New Zealand. The comparative
income-and-consumption figures for the
U.S. show increases of 20 p.c. and 15 p.c.
respectively.
The National’s view is that the only
sure means of raising living-standards is
by more efficient and vigorous industrial
and business effort which will make us
more competitive in export markets and
give local industry wider development;
and that the progress in both is too
unspectacular.
The reasons for this may be that
money-incomes have constantly risen,
security - consciousness been strongly
fostered by social-welfare policies, busi-
nesses generally been buoyant and
Governments, despite difficulties, able to
proceed with their activities.
(The bank’s research department
informs The Bulletin it took a true
comparison by taking the prices of the
“C”-series index for 1955-56 and relating
it to 1948-49.)
According to figures issued with the
last Federal Budget, net company-income
increased by 250 p.c. in the last seven
years, as did wages and salaries ; but
wages and salaries were five times
company-income.
Generally, profits and wages repre-
sented no more than marking-time with
the depreciation of the currency. The
only cream from the national churning is
in the Canberra dairy.
The Import Problem
[from Canberra]
Despite the substantial easing in import-
restrictions, Government backbenchers
are still concerned at the attitude of
senior public servants towards the whole
principle of licensing.
Cabinet decisions leading up to the
announcement have placed Trade Depart-
ment officials and their harassed Minister,
Mr. McEwen, in the novel position of
being regarded as champions of -private
enterprise.
But Treasury officials and Sir Arthur
Fadden in particular are meeting the
hostile looks of many backbenchers who
have led the fight against all-embracing
import-cuts. It has been revealed that
in Cabinet Sir Arthur, acting on Treasury
advice, fought hard to keep concessions
down to £3O million.
Private members are claiming that Sir
Arthur adopted an over-cautious
approach to the problem and paid little,
if any, heed to the plight of the business
world. These claims are borne out to
some extent by Fadden’s general
approach to any Budgetary problem
these days.
Fortunately for private enterprise, Mr.
McEwen, also acting on departmental
advice, fought hard tor a figure of £7O
million.
Trade Department advice was based on
a confidence that the nation has “turned
the corner” in its fight to keep our over-
seas reserves at a healthy level. Trade
officials also feared that, if substantial
import-concessions weren’t made, infla-
tion, an ever-present danger, could
become rampant.
Coming on top of his strenuous opposi-
tion to banking reform, Fadden’s stand
against a substantial easing of import-
restiictions makes him the most unpopu-
lar Minister with the Liberal-party
backbench.
Mr. McEwen’s blunt warning to the
Plastics Institute Convention that Aus-
tralian industries can’t rely on import-
restrictions as a permanent shelter against
overseas competition has eased the minds
of those who saw import-licensing fast
becoming; a permanent fixture in the
Australian economy.
Macq&iarie-streef's Nassers
The secret plan of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to found a £SO-million satellite-town
about 35 miles from Sydney, near Camp-
belltown, seems to make it clear why
“Labor” has shown so much sympathy
for the viewpoint of Nasser during the
Middle Eastern crisis. Its methods are
about on a par with his.
Of course, the technique isn’t new—-
the Cumberland County Council saw it
first and has been operating it with
results which should surely be enough to
deter any Government from following a
bad and callous example.
The Cumberland people have frozen
areas all over the place which the owners
can’t improve and can’t hope to sell
except to the council or to land-gamblers
with little faith in the planners’ chances
of carrying out their plans in a genera-
tion of elephants.
The express-ways, the wide avenues,
the green-belts look well on a map, but
on the map most of them will stay, since
there isn’t enough money by half in
sight to keep in order and widen the
existing roads, much less embark on some
of the extravagant and impracticable
ventures which the Cumberland people
have in mind.
The implications of these schemes for
getting the Great Wen of .Sydney out of
its traffic and congestion difficulties are
not merely local. Locals have been
taxed to the hilt until Cahill and his
rapacious crew can’t think of anything
new lo tax, so that the burden of their
schemes is national and must fall on the
general run of Australian taxpayers.
The new plan is immoral and furtive.
With great secrecy the Government
selected an area of nine square miles,
some of the best and most reliable milk-
producing land in the vicinity of Sydney
—an area free of floods. The land has
been “frozen” without compensation to
the owners, who have no chance of selling
it and have virtually lost control of it as
an asset, along with their livelihoods.
Most of them have developed it to its
present state of productivity over many
years. Some have been there all their
lives. They have been singled out for
differential treatment which places them
in a separate category from hundreds of
other owners round the big cities who
have held on to their country until the
outskirts of the city reached it and then
have had the benefit of urban prices.
Labor politicians have not been outside
the ranks of these fortunate ones.
If there were a chance that the town
would be built immediately and that it
would provide for 80,000 people, the
scheme might be a little less iniquitous,
but, as with the Cumberland County
scheme, the only people who are likely
to profit are the land-gamblers. The
Government hasn’t enough money or
labor to build the town within reasonable
time, and any scheme which the
N. S. Wales Government estimates to cost
£50,000,000 is more likely to cost
£500,000,000, and take 500 years to
complete.
This is sober fact. The Glenbawn
Dam was to cost £1,500,000 in the remote
age when it was planned 12 years ago
and it was take three years or so to
finish. Over a decade later it has reached
the £14,000,000 level in cost and nobody
likes to think about the date of its com-
pletion. It is too good a political ramp.
Royal Melbourne Regiment
Royal Melbourne Regiment, which
received new Queen’s and regimental
colors last year, has, laid-up its old colors
in the Town Hall.
They were the first colors to be laid-up
in Melbourne Town Hall, and were
handed over to the Lord Mayor by
Lieut.-Colonel Geoffrey Milroy Swan, a
young—he wasn’t born until the First
World War had ended—red-headed
businessman, who has been the regiment’s
C.O. for less than a year.
Lieut.-Col. Swan was commissioned
first with the 14th Battalion in 1939, and
was with the troops who followed through
from Buna to Lae, New Britain and other
sticky spots. He stayed on, chiefly in
staff appointments, after the war and
rejoined the militia in 1948.
Melbourne Rifle Regiment was formed
in 1854, became the City of Melbourne
Regiment in 1914, and the Royal Mel-
bourne Regiment in 1935. On its colors
are emblazoned 11 of the 26 battle-
honors won in the Boer- War and that big
war before young Swan was born.
Looking on was the regiment’s honor-
ary colonel, Rudolph Bierwirth, wh<T


retired as Lieut.-General after his last
command in Japan recently. “Biery”
was the regiment’s adjutant 30 years ago.
■ :
Housing-debate Farce
[Erom Canberra]
Both sides of Federal Parliament should
be censured severely for the time-wasting,
generally insincere Labor no-confidence
motion on housing which took up two
weeks of important Parliamentary
sittings.
Observers were asking, as the dull
debate dragged on day after day,
whether the Government and the Oppo-
sition had joined forces to make a farce
of the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-
General’s speech.
In the long, boring debate only two
speakers offered possible solutions to
what all thinking Australians recognise
as a housing problem. Both were
Government backbenchers.
Wheeler, M.H.R. for Mitchell, sought
a credit-easing to get more houses built,
and Sir Earle Page, Country-party Elder
Statesman, said savings-banks (the private
banks included) could be made to lend
money at interest 2 per cent, lower than
the present rate for housing if they didn’t
have to support the Federal Govern-
ment’s loan programme.
That the debate began and ended not
with a bang but a whimper is a shocking
indictment on Labor, which introduced
the motion as a supposedly serious
measure. After all, a no-confidence
motion is one of the most extreme forms
of the House.
For its own half-hearted attack, its lack
of proposals for a cure, and its general
approach to the debate, Labor deserves
the most severe censure of the House. In
the dying hours of the debate, Labor
Whip Gil Duthie was fighting hard to get
Opposition speakers to say a few words
in support of their own motion.
Saving Victorian Hotels
Exactly a year ago the Victorian
Premier announced that the Govern-
ment’s plans for dealing with the pro-
blems posed by the 6-o’clock swill-hour,
which a misled electorate had refused to
rectify, and the lack of accommodation
in hotels, would be to divide licensees
into two classes.
These would be restricted to beer and
bottle trade, or to beer, bottle and
accommodation as well, and the licence-
fee would be altered from the current
6 p.c. of the total purchases of beer,
wines and spirits to, probably, 8 p.c. and
4 p.c. respectively, giving the real hotel
substantially lighter tax.
By a strange, but not unfortunate,
coincidehce, Judge Fraser, chairman of
the Licensing Court, has made a special
report to the Government on precisely
these lines—including the suggested per-
centage taxes —after a trip to New Zea-
land, and has, in addition, suggested
hotels should be graded according to the
overall service they give their patrons.
The judge is alarmed by the closure of
seven big city hotels and the probability
that others may be sold to commerce
when expensive alterations fall due or
maintenance becomes over-costly.
The continuance of this process will
result in accommodation becoming more
difficult than ever, and the 6-o’clock swill
unendurable—if it is at present endur-
able —and though expensive accommoda-
tion will always be available, the traveller
of moderate means will be worst hit. The
process will be accelerated as the popula-
tion grows.
The judge reached Bolte’s conclusion,
and, it seems, while the electorate retains
the 6-o’clock swill, the only logical solu-
tion : that the licensee who concentrates
on liquor-sales should subsidise the
licensee who runs a true accommodation
house. His differential was 4 p.c. or
5 p.c. to 7 p.c. or 8 p.c.
There has been some agitation in Vic-
toria in recent years for the simple
American bar which operates very much
like the espresso bars now so popular in
the capitals and makes no attempt to pro-
vide accommodation and meals ; but even
the token accommodation provided by
the smaller pubs, which would probably
be put out of business in turn by the
American bars, is valuable in a growing
city and expanding provincial towns.
Judge Fraser’s suggestion for grading
hotels envisages a committee representing
the C.T.A., victuallers, Royal Auto Club,
the court, and a Government Minister
rather than the N.Z. method of giving a
wholly-Government body the right to
grade. Such a committee would have to
travel frequently, and fast.
Blind Samson
[By “Ek Dum’’]
Milton is an almost-forgotten poet, but
on the strength of his gift of prophecy he
is worthy of a popular revival.
No modern has ever painted the United
Nations better than he or limned its
history more clearly. It provided Israel
when founded with a paternal group
almost as numerous as Solomon’s wives.
It professed to render the small country
secure by virtue of its armistice agree-
ments and its General Burns and his
patrols after the Arabs set upon it “like
a deadly swarm of hornets armed”:
Promise was that I
Should Israel from the Philistian yoke
deliver.
Milton himself might well have been
o Continued on page 13)
READER RESPONSE
A FTER being familiar in its old size for
77 years, some reaction (from readers
of long-standing) to The Bulletin in its
new shape was to be expected. However,
only some of the funny stories being told
about the response of these older readers
to the new size can be authenticated.
There weren’t any ambulance-cases.
The first actual message received at
the office was from Sidney Riley, the
Sydney portrait-photographer, and donor
of the Gold Mashie Cup, the main trophy
played for each year at Roseville Golf
Club. Said Mr.. Riley:
I do like the new size. I like the feel
of it, and find it much easier to read. I
can turn the pages in bed without waking
everybody up.
An early report came from a newsboy
near Wynyard. His customer was a
retired grazier:
So they’ve changed the size. And damn’
near time, too!
At Beecroft (N.S.W.) an argument
between the newsagent and a customer
as to whether there was more in the new
size or not (there is more) attracted the
interest of a bystander. Not previously a
reader, he finished up placing an order
for regular delivery.
From J. B. Riddall, secretary of the
Naval and Military Club, Melbourne,
came the message:
I found by discussion with our members
that the new size and shape of The
Bulletin met with complete approval.
I have been a reader of The Bulletin,
both in Australia and. overseas, for 30 years,
during which time it has given me much
knowledge and a deal of pleasure.
Inkywayfarer James Mahoney, formerly
of the “Farmer and Settler” and now
editor and proprietor of “The Blue
Mountains Courier,” wrote:
Congratulations on the new size and
shape. The old paper is certainly much
more attractive and readable. I am
impressed by the way in which you have
be.n able to preserve the traditional
character of The Bulletin and yet make a
new paper of it.
One reader of 30 years’ standing,
fretting a little about the change,
exasperated his wife. “What are you
worrying about the size for, anyway?
You buy it to read it, don’t you?”
Most people really like the size and
“feel” of the new make-up.
The present editor was especially
happy to get a message of approval and
congratulation from J. E. Webb, editor
of The Bulletin from 1933 to 1948.
And a phone-call from Geoff Burgoyne,
former Westralian editor, who said he’d
made up his mind in advance that he
wouldn’t like the new-size Bulletin,
but was now thoroughly taken with it.
F. A. Pascoe, of R, M. Williams, Ltd.,
of Prospect, S.A. (saddlers and publishers
of “Hoofs and Horns”), wrote:
During 16 years of service in the R.A.N.
and five years with this company 1 have
had many pleasurable moments with the
pages of The Bulletin.
We would like to congratulate you on
your publication and on your enterprise
and thought in having your new press
manufactured entirely in Australia and of
being such a radical design. We also try
to get our raw materials whenever possible
from Australian sowces and have found
that, even though the cost is a little higher,
so invariably is the quality.
[The Bulletin can assure Mr. Williams
that in the present case the Australian
product was more than competitive in
price with anvthirig offering overseas,
and could be delivered earlier.]
The first run of any press, of course, is
no true guide to its ultimate perform-
ance, and as the next few weeks go by
The Bulletin’s appearance will improve
with each issue.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
/"'VN a letter from Germany I noticed
the sender’s address printed: citv
first, then suburb, street and, fipally,
number. Looked odd, but isn’t it more
logical than our own system, which
entails reading the address backwards?
—“Clem.”
* ❖ *
“D.S.R.”: Went to swap The Bully
with a cobber and on the way in met his
eight-year-old daughter going off to
school. Serene blue eyes gazed from a
demure face. “Mummy’s inside and
Daddy won’t be home till Saturday,” she
said. The neighbor was working in his
garden. I threw the paper on the front
steps and went for my life. As I closed
the front gate I heard a small voice pipe
up, “What’s biting him?"
“J. 8.”: In Perth (W.A.) the bakery of
Brown and Burns does a roaring trade.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Peneuse”: The Victorian Spiritualist
Union celebrates its 109th anniversary
this year at its head church, 109 Flinders-
lane, Melbourne —same time, as the
saying is, same place.
('
“El Arem”: In a radio-session to help
the assimilation of Newstralians one of
them asked what drink would be com-
monly served in this country, as wine
with a confection of jam on the side was
usual in his. With commendable cagi-
ness the commentator advised that tea
was best; in hot weather, he said, cool
drinks could be served or even, perhaps,
beer.
«j* ♦*»
“Xavier”: Dick Reynolds, coach of
Essendon club in the Victorian Football
League, is using tennis-balls as a pre-
season training-aid. Players bounce the
balls high, jump to take the marks,
tap the balls fast from hand to hand,
take them on the volley, in an effort to
sharpen sprinting, improve bending and
give added spring in high-flying tactics.
When Australian Rules develops into a
love-game, that will be the day!
♦l* ❖ ❖
“Tom Trout” (London): Saw no
“Italian-type” coffee-bars in Italy, for
the good reason that any bar serves coffee,
and tea—drinkable if partnered with
lemon instead of milk—as well as beer
and other tipples ; and the bottles them-
selves, on mirrored shelves, are the main
decoration. With the expensive espresso*
machines in so many bars, lesser eating-
houses don’t make coffee ; the waiter will
fetch you one from across the street, at
no extra charge, but at slightly
diminished heat! In the bars the old
Aussie habit of upright-drinking pays;
the charge is less than if you seat your-
self at the table a yard away.
♦J+ +!♦
“Phoongyee” (South Africa): Did
American colored troops during the last
war object to the word “nigger” (B.
23/1 /’57)? When in New York in 1930,
after completion of the British Empire
Games in Canada at which I officiated,
I visited Harlem and was somewhat
astonished to hear one negro greet
another: “Hullo, nigger, how’s tricks?”
and the other negro reply “Fine, nigger.”
I found the word “nigger” was one of
endearment, but if one negro accosted
another with “ black nigger,” then it was a
case of stoush. This word nigger is never
used, except as abuse, by anyone in South
Africa, which has a population of over
nine million blacks.
❖ ❖ *
“Ardoyne”: Notice affixed to a
suburban shop-window: “Blank’s will do
anything from plumbing to baby-sitting.
No job too small for Blank’s....” I sup-
pose if you can fix a water-tap you can
fix a baby.
❖ ♦> *X*
“8.A.H.”: Spring and summer have
seen the battle of the lawnmowers with
lavish advertising and rocketing sales;
and if we follow the U.S. pattern winter
should provide a battle of TV-antennae.
There, it is indoor versus outdoor ; and
a new example of the indoor aerial has
been backed by Lloyd’s of London
against all-comers. First Australian shots
have been fired by a firm using a picture
of its aerial posing intimately on a roof-
top beside that inevitable merchandising
gimmick, a pretty girl in a swimsuit.
“ You'll have to learn to behave yourself, Reggie— Were married now. "
THE KUBLA KHAN KLAN
“Canberra is to have an Academy of Science,
* 150 ft. copper-covered, concrete dome on the
concrete-shell principle of the projected Sydney
Opera House.”
In Xideni did Kahili Khan
A stately pleasure-dome decree
Where Jak the sacred Harbor ran
Past bridges measureless to man
Down to a slumless sea;
The scientific Khanbra Khans
Who hankered for a roof as well
Got out another set of plans
To house Academicians —
Another giant concrete shell;
So acres of Australian ground
With concrete dreams were girdled round,
And homeless folk, like shell-less snails,
Debased the scene with selfish wails!
A damsel with a dulcimer
In a vision then I saw,
It was an Architectural maid
And on her dulcimer she played:
"It is no time to talk of homes,
Build, oh build those domes,
sweet domes!”
And so I joined her singing there,
And longed to build those domes
in air, '
But people cried "Beware! Beware
His flashing eyes, her floating
hair!
Weave a circle round them thrice
And close your eyes with holy
dread,
For they on honey-dew have fed
And drunk the milk of Paradise!”
(Here, fortunately, the author was interrupted
by a person from Porlock)
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Blurb doesn’t specify whether the girl’s
presence improves reception, but with an
indoor version who’d care, anyway?
♦l* ♦> ♦>
“Sister Ellell”: “Sunray” (B. 20/3/’57)
was lucky to be billeted in such a gracious
house as the Leura Estate. When the
6th, 7th and 9th Divs. were on the Ather-
ton Tablelands, some of us Old Grey
Mares were sent to Trinity Beach on a
toughening-up course; route-marchin’,
pistol-shootin’ and the like. We were
housed in a decrepit and deserted house
of ill-fame. Paint had peeled from the
woodwork, and parts had a very drunken
lean. We wondered what the.
previous tenants would have
thought if they could have
seen us attired in our long
grey pants, safari-jackets (with
pockets on all strategic
points), boots and gaiters,
all surmounted by a “Mrs.
Miniver”—a Digger slouch-
hat jeblocked into a pork-pie
shape for Us. We often
wondered about them ; for on
nails behind the bathroom-
door were a collection of
door-keys, with a girl’s name
to each, and then, in brackets,
a price . . . We thought they
rated themselves pretty
cheaply, with the exception of one, and
she was up 400 per cent, on the others,
probably what they used to call an
“officer’s girl.”
“Nunk”: The Bulletin’s camera-
mateur having left half-a-jar of hypo-
crystals on the sink, Turn-to-make-the-
tea filled the jar with sugar, and it was
stirred into the staff-tea for three sessions
before anyone noticed ; so that, although
no one seems to have been completely
fixed, all are worried by the possibility
of turning into hypo-chondriacs.
♦l* ♦>
“Judee”: For what seemed a tedious
hour we crawled up the hills on the
N.S.W. Blue Mountains highway in a
long line of cars. It was exasperating—
but finally something happened at the
front of the queue ; everyone clapped on
speed and moved-off smartly. When we
got over the hill we discovered what had
been holding up the line —a furniture-
removalist’s pantechnicon bearing the
legend: “We Lead ; Others Follow.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Sllats Tunaep”: Three movie-mara-
thons soon to be with us — Tolstoy’s “War
and Peace,” Jules Verne’s “Around the
World in 80 Days” and “Giant,” from a
novel with a Texas setting, by Edna
Ferber—run for more than three hours
each—twice the average film-length. Is
any film worth all that time? American
box-office figures seem to be answering
that. “War and Peace,” which it is hard
|to imagine cut even to its 208-minutes,
is claimed to have a central theme, with
“Anybody got an aspirin? I've a splitting headache."
a grand ball, a bullfight at dawn, a
cavalry-charge and a large slice of
Napoleon’s retreat from Moscow thrown
in. But the movie-boys may find that
they have created a monster ; satisfying
public demand won’t then be easy. “Gone
With the Wind” may be a bigger hit than
ever on its fourth revival.
* * *
“Maitri”: “Oh, she’s going to sing
‘Come all ye faithful!’” delightedly
exclaimed the woman sitting next to me
as, 40 years ago, Melba’s liquid notes
spouted into the mid-Victorian vastnesses
of Sydney Town Hall. Only then did I
realise that the opening phrase of
Mozart’s “Voi die sapete” is identical
with that of the venerable Christmas
hymn.
❖ ♦> *X*
“Chip”: Looking over Sydney street-
names, Cremorne’s Civic Fathers must
have been cricket fans; Spofforth-,
Bannerman-, Boyle- and Murdoch-street.
Five Dock shows a partiality for the
Yanks with Garfield- and Arlington-
street, Illinois- and New Jersey Road,
Connecticut- and Minnesota-avenue.
Maroubra Junction is air-minded with its
Kingsford-, Ulm-, Hinkler-, Parer- and
Cobham-street. Croydon has a literary
flavor with Byron-, Scott- and Burns-
street, and Ivanhoe-road. World War I
Diggers feel at home living at Matra-
ville in Anzac-, Bapaume-, Lone Pine-,
Arras-, Flers- and Peronne-parade,
Pozieres-avenue, Hamel- and Menin-road,
Amiens- and Messine-crescent, with a
World War II Pacific Islands memory in
Rabaul-parade.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Ceg”: Someone, has worked it out
that the physical effort required to play
25 ends of bowls is about the same as
that required to shift a ton-and-a-half
stack of timber. A scientific authority says
that delivering a bowl expends 361 b. of
energy. If a pairs-team plays eight
matches of 18 ends, it adds up to a total
of 144 ends at close of play. Four bowls
per man are delivered at each end,
totalling 576 bowls. At 361 b. a bowl this
represents energy-exertion of nearly 10
tons. It’s a simple sum: the energy
expended on Melbourne’s suburban
bowling-greens on a line Saturday after-
noon would be sufficient to lift the
Pyramids of Egypt 100 ft. in the air and
hold them there for 10 minutes . . . but
of course no bowler would want to do a
silly thing like that.
♦> ♦> ❖
“Bo”: Ah, the subtlety of film-grad-
ings ! We can forget “G,” for that means
plainly from the infantile to the senile.
“A” is “For Adults Only” also
unequivocal ; no kids. Why then the
third classification, “Not Suitable For
Children”? A film regarded as being
mental pap for adults only must, ipso
facto, be regarded as Unsuitable for
children. Children presumably cease to
be in that class after they pass 16. Adult-
hood begins, you'd say, at 21. Are 20-
year-olds, some of whom are married,
therefore deemed so mentally and
morally immature as to be banned from


the back-stalls because a married man is
taking a celluloid-flutter? Then there is
the “H,” or horror-film, always meticu-
lously labelled so that mothers will keep
the tots away. This is the one you’ll
hear being vociferously shrieked at during
Saturday-matinees, and which keeps
Dad hopping Saturday nights attending
to the nightmares.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Old Opencut”: The garish lounge-
suite filled the open window. Upholstered
in k J, green and cream and edged with
chrome-metal strips. “Who on earth
would buy that?”. I asked the floor-
manager. “Well, neither you nor I,” he
said, “but I’ll bet you one like it that
ten minutes before closing-time tonight a
black-haired Italian with a plump no-
spikka-da-Engleesh missus will walk in.
He will fish a hundred smackers out of
an old black stocking, point to that suite,
hand me a piece of paper with a pencilled
"I hope I'm not boring you with my explanation of the theory of flight .”
address and say ‘You send ’im here
tomorrow?’ Myself, I’d hate to be found
dead on that settee and our top-class
factory people shed tears when we send
them the designs. However, these people
are good customers ; cash on the nail;
no t.p. Have a look at next week's
designs ; they’ll really slay you! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Moorapi”: A small film-projector
whirring in Melbourne’s darkened
Criminal Court during a murder-trial has
created Victorian legal precedent, but
films have been accepted as evidence over-
seas as far back as President McKinley,
shot while opening the Pan-American
Exposition at Buffalo (U.S.A.) in 1901,
when a primitive newsreel of the
ceremony identified the assassin.
❖ ❖
“Ranji”: Not only the police are
ganging-up on Melbourne’s bodgies. A
hundred trainees from Laverton were dis-
persed by police after heading for St.
Kilda to settle with bodgie gangs which
have been bashing airmen and molesting
their girls. It’s a pity: “Nashos v. Bashos”
would have made such a good title for a
civil war.
*l* *l*
“J.P.C.”: Rotary grasscutters, now
restoring edge-neatness to tree-guards,
kerbings, etc., are timely in replacing the
lost art of scything, though the old gentle-
man with the hourglass who has so long
been proof against waterproof-watch
advertisements Is hardly likely to be
stampeded by the ads., resembling a
butterfly-collector’s specimen-case, which
make it hard for even a flat-dweller to
resist choosing a lawnmower. But one of
these days his sales-resistance will be
overcome, and then, Swiss-watched,
rotary-cutter in one hand and with the
other working a rotary electric-razor on
his beard, Time will pass unheeded.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Quo Vadis”: Coincidence put the
missus in the same room in a city private-
hospital occupied some time before by
her upper-crust aunt. “Ah, yes, I
remember her very well,” said Sister.
“Leaned a bit heavy on the bell.”
•£» ijt
“Curate’s Egg”: ""hat polyphilopro-
genitive poppa who blamed the lack of
picture-shows (B. 13/3/’57) reminds me
of a move to outlaw Sunday-night film-
shows in a West Queensland township.
Among those for continuance was a
popular Bush Brother who used to
organise his large congregation for the
Sunday-night shows after his service. At
a public meeting the cleric produced
figures to the effect that since the intro-
duction of Sunday pictures 10 years
before the town’s illegitimate birth-rate
had been reduced by about 75 per cent.
The statistical argument carried the day.
Audiences thereafter included many new
patrons anxious to silence wagging
tongues: Sunday-night pictures became
de rigueur for the more sought-after of
the town’s lasses who wished to preserve
their reputations.
♦♦♦
“Kenyas”: A dozen boys were lined-up
outside the housemaster’s study, so I
asked why. “We’re the Hit Parade,” one
of them informed me proudly.
A SURE WINNER
“There are many ways in which a girl may
reveal her personality and enhance her
popularity with men, but the clever selection of
what she wears is always a major factor.” —
Visiting fashion-designer.
The uninhibited laugh
That reveals your pearly teeth ;
The wide-eyed look so keenly
cultivated;
All that sprightly verbal chaff
That you toss at Len or Keith —
Take heed! They may be grossly
overrated ;
They could badly let you down
In the plan that you pursue
For perfect personality-projection,
Just as may the practised frown
As you gaze at distant view
Or that yearning 100k —as if you
need protection.
Oh, take heed, you sisterhood!
Ever abjure, right to the last,
The ebullient spirit, or the soulful
manner;
Misinterpreted, these could
Mean as nitwit you’d be classed,
And wreck your chance to carry
Hymen’s banner.
You may think that, as you dance
To the crooning saxophone,
You radiate perfect ethereality.
Yet by chance your partner’s glance
Hits your outsize feet —and blown
Off-course may be your vaunted
personality.
Just play safe, and stick to dress,
If you’d get yourself across.
Whether above your knees the skirt
may billow ;
If your frock’s marked X. 0.5.,
Brightly-colored, dull as moss.
On dumpy figure, or one slim as
willow.
Yet your chances I’d assess
As being higher than par
Sans jeans or sweater, bouffant
frock or beanie.
If yourself you would express,
And with men be popular,
Just stroll on to the beach in a Bikini!
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


Rocky Point
[TO GEFFE AND NIN]
A house that Paul Cezanne would love
Set on a limestone cliff above
The mirage of the sea for ships
(That sail themselves on slender hips)
To marvel at or wonder why
Her masons squared her in the sky
As if they’d learned from Geoffrey’s pen
To build for gods and not for men —
Marooned in licked and friendly calm ,
Here only tea-trees dream of storm
While small as thumbs the pardalotes
Sing their double yellow notes
And scale like Hillary the wail
And now within the ceiling call
“Nin-Nin, Nin-Nin .. . Ninette,” they cry ;
And in the tempests, so do I.
On the white beaches and the sea
Blue days in careless rivalry
Go by. Like Greeks, we fish for food
And the great waters take the blood
Of their slim sons as “Up!” you sing
At Somerset and laughing swing
The whiting in the boat —or rouse
A cheer for me at trap-the-mouse.
But in the ocean s lAminous, charmed,
Dumb underworld we wander armed
With knife and gun as on patrol.
Colder than moons, a drummer shoal
Orbits, we aim, while underneath
A stingray passes like the earth .-. .
And this is where we come jrom. Prayer
Has its validity in air
Where Time may seem our slave, and we
Get up at lunch for morning-tea
(Or coffee), dine to his dismay
At midnight or the following day
When wit and wine are at their best
And, ringed in lamplight, all are blessed
By that sweet sympathy that laid
Anlaby’s ghost in peaceful shade.
But now wrens ring, as frail as shells.
In tiny firmaments their bells,
And the sea answers from below.
Olive and pink the fan-shells glow
In tidal pools, like robins’ tails ;
And morning on the thin moon sails
Out of the east. Wild thrushes sing,
And only Venus’ ears are listening.
a.c.t.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


POLITICAL POINTS
While the Queensland Government is
legislating against one-brand petrol-
sellers the one-brand beer-sellers in
Sydney are appealing to the N. S. Wales
Government for protection against com-
petition from clubs.
• •
South Australia is to celebrate its
centenary of responsible government
with a special one-day session on April
24. The actual date of the anniversary
is April 22, but that happens to be Easter
Monday this year. First Premier of
South Australia was Boyle Finniss, and
in the first 80 years of self-government
the State had 32 Premiers. Since then
there’s been only one.
• •
If Gair’s new law can force oil-com-
panies to permit rival concerns to install
bowsers on their premises where does the
thing stop? He can’t legitimately grant
the privilege to Josephson’s company
without giving it also to any other new
show that seeks it. If nof,_ then his law
will have the effect of guaranteeing the
field to the existing companies plus the
Josephson company. Any new concern
which wants to cut into the business will
be under the handicap of first having to
erect its own stations and then of
permitting all the other companies to
move in.
• •
The brutal murder of two United
States mission officials and the wife of
one of them by Persian bandits is a side-
light on the nature of the United Nations.
Persia was one of the great, orderly
countries in the forefront in laying down
the moral law to the United Kingdom
only a few weeks ago under the leader-
ship of Cuba and the patronage of the
United States. Cuba has had its bandit
revolution since.
• •
There’s a strong move on both sides
of Parliament for a tax on diesel-fuel.
This would force owners of road-trans-
ports to pay for road upkeep and main-
tenance in the same way that petrol-
powered vehicles now contribute through
petrol-tax. Fairbairn, M.H.R. for Farrer.
told the House that a diesel-tax of Is. 6d.
a gallon would bring in million a
year. He has the answer to the problem
of catching the road-haulier, but not the
primary producer who uses diesel-oil in
his tractor —a colored dye.
• •
Four candidates have nominated for
the by-election for the N. S. Wales
Assembly seat Kahibah. They are J. P.
Daley (Democratic Labor), Etheline
James (Independent), J. Richley (Liberal)
and J. J. Stewart (Labor). Polling-day is
April 13.
• •
On March 25 the Governments of
France, Belgium, Holland, Luxemburg,
Italy and West Germany signed the draft
agreements by which they become
partners in a united West European
market. The agreements will become
effective when they are ratified by the
Parliaments of the six countries. Between
them the signatories represent 162 million
people, whose exports in 1955 totalled
£B3OO million, of which £lOBO million
came from agricultural products.
• •
Meatworkers at Homebush Abattoirs
are refusing to work while members of
the Metropolitan Security Service,
engaged in an attempt to reduce losses
by stealing, are watching them. The
Burglars’ Union takes a similar attitude in
regard to the police.
• •
“Doormat”: Bolte’s “sell-Victoria”
policy is being • followed-up with a
“promotion mission” for U.S.A., to leave
at the end of April. It consists of a
banker, an advertising executive, a real-
estate man, two members of the Mel-
bourne City Council (one of them an
architect), a managing-editor, a stock-
broker and a couple of manufacturers.
Carrying the sponsorship of the Vic-
torian Government for personal contacts
in U.S.A. and Canada, members of the
mission will pay their own fares. The
object is to attract millions of dollars’-
worth of business enterprise to Victoria.
• •
In Queensland one-brand service-
stations are due to get the legislative
works from a one-brand Government
which for forty years has had a monopoly
of the distribution of electoral boundaries.
• •
The Doc. has discovered that the
amount of revenue received by the States
under the tax-reimbursement system is
“quite inadequate.” The system was
devised by the Labor Government of
which he was a member and was
apparently quite adequate while his party
was in power, although .the State Premiers
even then complained that it wasn’t.
• •
Nasser’s terms for control of Suez were
described by New York “Times” as
“victor’s terms.” Dictator’s terms would
be nearer the mark. The Papyrus
Pharaoh has ignored all previous points
of agreement and reverted to his straight-
out grab tactics of last July. This isn’t
surprising. Ever since U.N. came into
the picture he has been given everything
he asked for, so naturally he keeps on
asking.
What could hurt Nasser most now
would be a boycott of the canal. And
why not? European shipping has had
to use the Cape route for over five months
already. A few more months wouldn’t
bankrupt any European Government, but
it could make Nasser’s Treasury as empty
as the tomb of Rameses.
The time for such a stand is now,
while the machinery for using the Cape
route is in operation. If Nasser’s terms
are accepted it will be useless trying to
dispute his right to vary them when he
feels so inclined.
THE STRANGE BROOD


in Cairo after Mr. Hammarskjoeld had
finished his six days of Raifest with
Nasser when he wrote:
Ask for this great deliverer now
And find him eyeless in Gaza at the
mill with slaves
Himself in bonds under Philistian yoke.
Well might he and the world exclaim
at the sorry sight: “O, impotence of mind
in body strong.” For the U.N., in the
Middle East, appears to have no mind
of its own, only Nasser’s, if the latest
utterance of Nasser’s spokesman Sabry
can be trusted.
The position seems to be that Nasser,
with the backing of Mr. Hammarskjoeld,
will agree to let all ships through the
canal. He will agree to compensate the
owners of the canal when and as it suits
him. At the same time he proposes to
make up a bill for damage caused by
British-French aggression, produced by
his blockage of the cimal, which the
United Nations has cleared for him free
of cost for his sabotage and write-off
the price of the canal (as determined by
himself) against it.
Mr. Hammarskjoeld is now consulting
with the Western parties concerned, but
his attitude has been so yielding and
partisan when dealing with the Arab bloc,
and so unyielding with the Israelis, that
not much can be expected from the
discussions. His attitude, and that of
U.N., is, in the words of the French
Government, “contradictory and
unacceptable,” by every principle of law
and justice.
Little has been heard of the Russian
attitude towards the Israeli question. But
Bulganin previously wrote, concerning
Israel’s action against Egypt:
We propose that the Government of
Israel should consider before it is too
late....We hope that the Government of
Israel will fully understand and appreciate
this warning of ours.
The whole text of the Notes, too long
to reproduce here, was vicious, and so
dishonest and partisan on the side of the
dictator that one wonders what good
purpose can be served by further associa-
tion with the Soviet in the so-called
United Nations, which have backed-down
both in the Middle East and in Hungary
to Communist threats, at the same time
serving to organise the world into two
rival camps. The United States and the
U.S.S.R. are between them dictating
world policy and using as their instrument
the flaccid U.N., that “irresistible
Samson” whom, it was envisioned in the
idyllic years of the San Francisco
conference,
. . . unarmed
No strength of man or fiercest wild beast
could withstand
Who tore the lion as the lion tears the kid
Ran on embattled armies clad in iron,
And weaponless himself,
Made arms ridiculous.
But instead of the “bold Ascalonites”
(the Communist Powers and their tools)
fleeing from U.N.’s “lion ramp,” or Mr.
Hammarskjoeld “turning their plated
backs under his heel” or forcing them to
“grovelling soil their helmets in the dust,”
the only U.N. weapon appears to be,
as with blind Samson, “the jaw of a dead
ass, his sword of bone” ; its only victory
that in which “a thousand foreskins fell,
the flower of Palestine.”
British Parliamentary opinion has been
outspoken about U.N. proceedings in the
past few weeks. It will reach danger-
point if U.N.’s present support of Nasser
and its refusal to implement its own
orders to Egypt continue.
Australian hens have been taking all
this productivity talk a little too seriously
if what the chairman of the N. S. Wales
Egg Marketing Board told the Egg
Producers’ Council in Hobart is right.
He said that the only immediate action
that could put the industry on an
economic basis was a reduction in egg-
production. Come on, girls. Break it
down!
• •
Pub-keepers in Sydney are urging that
a three-year limit should be placed on
poker-machines in clubs. As Cahill’s
Treasury is getting close on £1 million a
year from the one-armed bandits, the
request is not likely to be granted. One
thing should be done about the machines,
though. There should be a definite limit
to the percentage the clubs may make on
the turnover of the machines.
• •
There’s a curious inconsistency about
Labor policy toward the oil-companies.
In Canberra, Evatt is sponsoring an Anti-
Monopolies Bill directed largely against
the oil-boys on the grounds tnat' tney
comprise a cartel and don’t compete with
-ach other. In Brisbane, Gair (with the
wholehearted approval of Federal Labor)
is trying to stop the same companies
from competing through one-brand
nations.
• • , &
Varied sets of figures were produced
?ut of sundry hats in the course of the
federal Housing debate. Calwell claimed
he annual need for new houses was
120,000 and that unless the Menzies
jovernment did something about it “it
vould be sowing the seeds for a new
growth of Communism.” As for the
rading banks —“they are asking for
lationalisation if they refuse housing
inance.”
Queensland Senator Kendall (Liberal)
nd Westralian Kim Beazley (Labor)
>oth found a tie-up between the hous-
ng shortage and booze. Kendall said
hat last year Australians spent £165
lillion on liquor and that this would
ave been sufficient to build 55,000
omes. Beazley added smokes and bet-
ing to the liquor bill and calculated that
he total, £7OO million, would have built
80,000 homes a year. These two con-
•ibutions to the debate were no doubt
incere, but scarcely practical. In the
art of world where there is no drinking,
moking or gambling they probably don’t
eed houses.
• •
“Lobby”: The Joint Parliamentary
ommittee on Constitutional Reform will
e on a sticky wicket when it comes to
:udy the Constitutional problems of con-
iliation and arbitration. Labor members
re expected to press for a referendum'
iving Parliament sweeping powers to
ecide such issues as the basic wage,
largins, long-service leave, and other
lajor industrial questions. If such a
fferendum were carried Labor members
imit it would mean the virtual stripping
f all industrial powers now vested in
tate Governments. They also admit
iat such a system would make the trade-
unions the absolute dictators of future
Federal Labor Governments.
One Labor member last week shrugged
off the threat with “If we can’t stand up
to that sort of pressure, then we don’t
deserve to govern.”
Some Government members feel that
many trade-unions would be opposed to
such centralised power because it might
be many years before the election of a
Federal Labor Government. One
Minister holds that most union leaders
would prefer to exert pressure on State
Labor Governments —a method used
successfully on the 40-hour-week issue.
• •
Jack Lang’s comment, published here
without comment:
The Bulletin has altered its format after
more than half a century. It is now 20th
century in style, b‘ut still 18th century in
politics. Its black-and-white remains among
the world’s best. The Red Page also is
still pale pinko.
• •
“Caucus”: Labor expects to get the
lion’s share of votes from naturalised
Italians, Greeks and Maltese at next
Federal poll. This is the view of a senior
member of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party who denies press reports that
the A.L.P. has abandoned hope of getting
a reasonable share of the migrant vote.
“I don’t believe all this nonsense talked
about European migrants regarding us as
Communists,” he says. However, he
admits that motions carried by the recent
Brisbane conference will probably alienate
most eastern European and German
voters.
• •
“Allan B.”: Wishing to get to his
Meredith sheep property (near Geelong)
in a hurry because of bushfires, Premier
Bolte called for a helicopter, but was told
that the only three machines in Aus-
tralia were grounded. Yet little Thailand
uses 20 of these machines for its police-
work alone, and near-neighbors New
Zealand and Indonesia both use ’copters
in a big way. A manufacturer from
America who came here to find out why
we aren’t more ’copter-conscious was told
it took six months to get import-licences
for two machines to be landed here.
There’s plenty of scope for flutter bugs
in mine-surveying, fire-spotting, flood-
rescue work, crop-control and other fields.
Perhaps our politicians had better ask
a Siamese policeman how it’s done.


PERSONAL ITEMS
BRIDGE-BUILDER
HEREWITH, W. Cardo, in charge of
the site-construction of the Auckland
Harbor Bridge for the English con-
tractors, Cleveland Bridge and Dorman
Long. The bridge, originally expected
to cost £3,465,000 and now likely to run
into around £5 million, has caused quite
a bit of controversy in the New Zealand
city; many Aucklanders maintaining
that something more ambitious should
have been ordered in the first place. It
will have only four traffic-lanes, no tram-
lanes or train-lanes, and no footway.
Expected to be finished by the middle of
next year, the bridge is already well under
way—recognisable as a bridge from the
city-side, although only seven sections are
jutting over the water —and bridge-roads
have made excellent progress. Cardo,
experts say, is making a very good fist of
a difficult job, despite occasional labor
troubles.
• •
A Perth father-and-son firm will be
associated with the Danish concern
Christiani and Neilsen in building the
new bridge over the Swan at the Narrows.
The father, John Oswald Clough, was a
field-gunner in two world wars (D.C.M.
and a “mention” in the first, Lt.-Colonel
in the second) and in between, and has
been a builder for over 40 years. His
partner and son, William Clough, is a
specialist in structural engineering. He
took his engineering degree with first-
class honors at the University of Western
Australia, and went as a Fulbright
Scholar to the U.S.A., where he collected
his M.Sc. at the University of California
and worked on power-plants and oil-
refineries.
Left on Bank of N.S.W. business at
the end of March, by air to London and
then to Scandinavian and European
countries and North America, R. R.
McKellar, acting assistant-g.m.
• •
“5 G.R.”: Died at his home in the
Dandenongs, near Melbourne, Col.
John Walstab, D. 5.0., V.D., former C.O.
of the old sth Bn. in France. Born in
Victoria Barracks, where his father was
senior Victorian police-officer, John was
in charge of New Guinea police between
wars and in War II was Provost-Marshal
in the Middle East.
• •
The job of Solicitor-General in New
Zealand, made vacant by the retire-
ment of H. E. Evans, Q.C., will be filled
by H. R. C. Wild, senior member of the
Wellington firm of Bell, Gully and Co.
This firm has given N.Z. many dis-
tinguished legal men, including Sir
Michael Myers and Sir Humphrey
O’Leary (Chief Justices) and Sir Francis
Bell (Attorney-General and Minister of
Justice).
• •
Andy Garran, new chairman of the Vic-
torian Public Service Board (£4300 a year),
will find the job rather different from
his current leisured one as chief Parlia-
mentary draftsman, where all that has
disturbed him in his eyrie has been a rush
bill or two during a sitting. He takes-over
now an administrative post in which the
lively D. D. Paine has bossed 13,000
public-servants, often making swift
decisions. A son of the Sir Robert who
helped frame the Commonwealth Consti-
tution, he graduated in Arts at Mel-
bourne Uni. and in Law at Oxford, and,
although some politicians in Spring-
street have found him somewhat donnish,
he’s been deft at drafting bills. He was
a Wingco in the R.A.A.F. during the
war ; is now 50.
• •
“Maitri”: Big, genial George Bawtree,
senior-housemaster at Newington College,
Sydney, is responsible for the smooth
running of next Saturday’s (April 6) big
event on the Nepean —the annual G.P.S.
boatrace. Holding the top organising
position—G.P.S. Rowing Convenor —he
arranges for the accommodation of an
average attendance of 25,000, sees to
parking-space for some 4000 cars, books
six special electric-trains and 40 buses,
and attends to the insurance and trans-
portation of £15,000-worth of boats and
other equipment.
After three years in the last war with
the A.1.F., Bawtree started teaching at
Mowb&ay House School, Chatswood, then
went to Newington as sportsmaster.
Later he acted as housemaster at both
Shore and Trinity Grammar, returning
to Newington at the beginning of 1952
to take up his present combined jobs of
economics master and senior housemaster
—he’s in charge of 133 senior boarders,
probably the largest number in a single
boarding-house at any Australian school.
A strict disciplinarian, nevertheless
George is popular with the boys because
of his scrupulous fairness. He coaches
in cricket, football, rowing and athletics.
His spare moments are occupied as
vice-president and amenities and wel-
fare officer of the N.S.W. Assistant
Masters’ Association, and with public-
relations work involving two councils,
radio-stations, the press and the Army.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Empire
Society. His hobby? Teaching!
Married, with two children ; his wife
a sister of Australian Covent Garden
tenor Raymond Nilsson.
• •
“Fell Maken”: Retired from the
N.S.W. Railways last month, after more
than 40 years’ service, Bill Napthali, the
department’s No. 1 loco.-driver. Bill
drove the first Newcastle “Flyer,” drove
the royal train during the Queen’s visit,
and latterly drove the Blue Mountains
train“ The Fish.” It would be hard to
imagine anybody less like the popular
conception of a train-driver than Bill —■
tall, slim, professional-looking, always
wearing a starched collar and bow-tie,
and a lover of “good” music.
• •
Bobby Gibbes, of Gibbes Sepik Air-
ways, sighted at lunch at Aaron’s Hotel,!
Sydney, before he set off for a cattle-lift!
to New Guinea. The passengers, 24
weaners weighing an average 2501 b., were
to be picked-up at Cairns and taken to
Aitape, with a landing at Horn Island to
refuel on the way. With the Common-
wealth subsidy to encourage cattle-
breeding in New Guinea, air-lifting good-
quality beasts has interesting possibili-
ties. Gibbes, D. 5.0., D.F.C. and Bar,
led 3 Fighter Squadron in the Western
Desert (B. 13/3/’57).
AIRMAN


Taking a bow after 16 years as boss of
Melbourne’s Botanic Gardens, Alex.
Jessep, B.Sc., M.Agr.Sc., who has spent
all his working life among plants and
flowers, and has been leader and adjudi-
cator in horticultural matters for nearly
40 years. He is a world-authority on
camellias. Jessep's retirement comes
exactly a century after von Mueller’s
directorship began.
• •
“Uramao”: Sergeant J. R. Wright, an
R.A.F. visitor to New Zealand, collects
models and photographs of early-vintage
aircraft; he has a museum of them at his
home in Northern Ireland. At the Canter-
bury hangar at Harewood (N.Z.) he was
shown something that thrilled him —
battered remains of a monoplane built
by the late R. W. Pearse. Investigation
showed that Pearse had had the idea of
a variable-pitch propeller, which achieves
an extreme setting for maximum lift;
also a fillet, or upper-fuselage stream-
lining. “This man was years ahead of his
time,” was Wright’s comment. The
ancient craft is to go to Auckland, where
a collection of antique aircraft is being
gathered together.
o •
N. J. Gilmour, the Commonwealth
Trading Bank’s new chief manager for
South Australia, joined the Common-
wealth Bank in 1920 after four years with
the Queensland National Bank. Since
then he’s had experience of city, country
and suburban branches in three States,
and has been manager at Broadway
(Sydney), Mackay (Q.), Bourke-street
(Melbourne) and Barrack-street (Sydney).
• •
“A.C.T.”: Diplomats come and diplo-
mats go in Canberra, but one of the
most popular in recent years has been
Avery F. Peterson, counsellor of the U.S.
Embassy since August, 1953, and Charge
d’Affairs since Ambassador Moffatt’s
death last year. It was learned during
Dulles’s visit to Canberra that “Pete ’
was scheduled for a move to Singapore
as Consul-General, with the personal
rank of Minister. He’ll fly to the U.S.
for home-leave after the new U.S.
Ambassador, William J. Sebald, arrives
in June. The Petersons will take their
tw r o daughters home, but their younger
son, John, will remain at Sydney Uni. to
complete his engineering course. Peter-
son’s diplomatic career in Canada,
London, Stockholm and Paris is studded
with first-class work on economic affairs
and defence.
• •
The consulting-engineer who designed
the air-conditioning system (including a
mechanical brain which controls (he
plant) for one of Perth’s leading depart-
ment-stores is W. Tauss, a 35-year-old
Viennese who was 17 when he landed in
W.A. after Hitler took-over Austria. He
worked as a jackeroo, then in a dry-
cleaning concern before he studied
engineering.
G. C. Brander, technical manager of
William Cooper and Nephews, has been
made a director of the company,
• •
Heinrich von Brentano, the West Ger-
man Foreign Minister, blew in and out
of a press-conference in Sydney, giving
the impression of a man in a hurry ; and
so Dubois has drawn him. He answered
questions through an interpreter, start-
ing to speak (in German) as soon as the
question (in English) finished. The
answers —concerning the prospects of
uniting Germany, the common-market
scheme, and the like—were almost all
long, with qualifications and subordinate
clauses galore, and the interpreter began
writing as soon as von, Brentano began to
WEST GERMAN MINISTER
speak, later reading out the translation.
But the answers made sense. The Euro-
pean common-market plan is, in a way,
Brentano’s baby : he has pushed it from
the beginning, and the concept of a poli-
tically united Europe which is behind it
(and which could, eventually, result from
it) is one with which he is in sympathy.
He is a South German, and his family is
of Italian descent. Towards the end of
the conference the German TV-camera
spotted Dubois at work, and concentrated
on him —a neat turning of tables.
• •
“Allan B.”: Reminiscences of Sir
William Bridgeford’s early days had an
airing at his home-town, Smeaton, a small
place near Ballarat (Vic.) when the locals
put on a show to honor the local-boy-
made-good. Some 200 cobbers yarning
over old times recalled that he used to be
the local marbles champ ; that he pjayed
in the town-band and was pelted with
eggs ; and Sir William recalled being the
star-performer at a magician’s show in
that same hall until his Dad put in an
appearance and took his schoolboy son
home. In those days they travelled to
Ballarat school by coach, and each time
the driver told them they would get their
money back if they had no bumps. They
never got their money back.
Other locals who had made good from
the same town included former Victorian
Premier Sir Alexander Peacock, and the
present Governor of New South Wales,
Sir John Northcott.
Sir William has officially retired as
chief executive officer of the Olympic
Games after three years and eight months
in what was at first Australia’s biggest
headache. He took-over, at the end of
40 years’ soldiering, in the midst of con-
troversy, and. made the Games a
resounding success. After a holiday in
Queensland, Sir William will take-up a
number of directorships in business.
L • •
“A.W.8.”: The Victorian President of
the Church of England Men’s Society,
Archdeacon R. E. Richards, M.A., has
been elected Bishop of Bendigo, in suc-
cession to Dr. C. L. -Riley. Rev.
Richards has been Archdeacon
of Ballarat (Vic.) since 1950.
Born in Ballarat, he is 48, and has been
Vicar of Lismore (Vic.) and Warrnam-
bool. He was a chaplain last war, and is
still on the active list. On being accepted
as a student for holy orders in 1929 he
went to Trinity College at Melbourne
University as the Cusack Russell student
for Ballarat Diocese. He took his degree
in Arts with second-class honors. The
new bishop has a brother in Bendigo,
Dr. E. A. Richards. He will be enthroned
in All Saints’ Cathedral, Bendigo, on
May 2.
• •
Into the Silence:
At Oxford, England, at 90, General Sir
Alexander Godley, who commanded the
N.Z.E.F, in the Kaiser’s War, landing with
them at Gallipoli. Was in commaad of the
western defences at Maleking in the Boer War;
Commander-in-Chief of the British Army of the
Rhine 1922-24; Aide-de-Camp to George V,
and from 1928 to 1933 Governor and Com-
mander-in-Chief of Gibraltar. He retired in
1933, but put on uniform again in War II to
command a platoon of the Home Guard in
England.
In Brisbane, at 90, Philip James Symes,
former chairman of Queensland Cement and
Lime Co., Ltd., member of the Royal National
Association council for more than 40 years (he
had been deputy-chairman and chief ring-
steward), and a foundation-member of the
Royal Queensland Golf Club.
At Dunedin (N.Z.), at 55, Professor R. M.
Gabriel, one of the world’s outstanding mathe-
matical analysts. Educated at Owen School,
Islington, and Queen’s College, Cambridge, he
hai a variety of jobs before going to Otago
University as Professor of Mathematics in 1948.
In London, at 86, Kennedy Rumford, who,
with his wife. Dame Clara Butt, first came to
Australia and New Zealand in 1907. The tour,
a great success, helped to establish the firm of
J. and N. Tait.
At Rockhampton (Q.), at 83, Andrew Can-
ning Anderson, newspaperman and master-
printer, and prominent in Central Queensland
public affairs and sport since 1903.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 79, Percy Bolton
Haggitt, former Dean of Nelson, and Arch-
deacon of Christchurch until his retirement in
1950.


ABORIGINALITIES
The Mystery
T WAS a deckhand on the prawn-trawlei
•*- Mooloolabelle when I first saw the
Mystery.
We had anchored in Bustard Bay (Q.),
not far from the monument which marks
the spot where Captain Cook landed.
The Mystery suddenly appeared out of
the sunset.
For a moment I thought I was dream-
ing, as I tried to identify her with some-
thing within my knowledge or experience.
I thought of Nelson’s flagship, Noah’s Ark
“No! No! He do the rock-'n'-roll, but not Highland-fling!”
•nd a Chinese junk, but although there
were definite resemblances to all of these
there was something singular about the
boat, and something remarkable, too,
about the smaller craft trailing behind
her. On the deck of the small boat
several clotheslines had been rigged, and
from them a couple of dozen nappies
flapped in the breeze.
“What’s the strength of this, Alec?” I
asked my skipper, as the two strange boats
glided into the bay.
“Oh, that’s the Mystery—Vince Green-
halgh’s boat,” he said. “The other one’s
the Sea Marie —his son-in-law’s. You’ll
always see nappies dryin’ on her —there’s
two babies on board.”
I resolved to have a yarn with Vince
next time the Mystery anchored at Bunda-
berg. „
Even without its newly acquired status
as the centre of Queensland’s dollar-
earning prawn- and scallop-industry,
Bundaberg is a prosperous, rapidly
expanding city. With the advent of
trawlers and fishermen from all over the
eastern coast of Australia there is a
bustling atmosphere about its wharves
and riverside pubs that recalls what we
have read of the pioneering days.
And among the fishermen there are
characters, such as Vince Greenhalgh, with
a tradition of pioneering behind them
which is being carried forward to where,
soon, no trawler will be considered well-
equipped unless it carries a radio-
telephone and an echo-sounder.
On the wharf, just after he had finished
unloading his catch of prawns, Vince
matter-of-factly satisfied my curiosity
about the Mystery.
He’d begun his fishing-career on the
Richmond River (N.S.W.) in 1921. Then,
hit by the depression, he brought his wife
and family of five children to Mary-
borough in 1938 to take up a selection on
the bank of the Mary River. There he
built a bark hut and began raising dairy-
cattle, poultry and pigs.
The selection was not a success, so
Vince decided to build a boat large
enough to take his family to sea and
become a fisherman again.
With an old Kelly axe as his only tool,
Vince set to work. Out of an ironbark-
tree he cut and squared the Mystery’s
keel, 42ft. long, 1 lin. by 7in. in thickness.
From two other ironbarks he cut and
squared the sister-kelsons which run
parallel and on either side of the keel,
each kelson measuring 28ft. by Bin. by
Bin.
The floor timbers—l lin. by 7in. thick —
he cut in the same manner from ironbark,
spacing them crossways at 2ft. intervals
along the entire length of the boat.
Finally, in 1947, after a year and seven
months of solid work, the boat was
completed.
“Where did you get the name from?”
I asked him.
“Well,” Vince drawled, “all the neigh-
bors kept asking me what I was building,
and I used to tell ’em it was a mystery.
So when I finished her, what else could
I call her?”
When she was launched the Mystery
measured 49ft. in length, weighed over
40 tons and had a cargo-capacity of 29
tons.
“The big trouble,” Vince told me, “was
the launching itself. It took me a month
to dig the bank away and build a slipway
out of logs, another week to build a
cradle, and I finally launched her with
four-foot bluegum wedges, and a pound
of lard.”
Since then the Greenhalgh family has
lived afloat, and Vince maintains that
none of them will ever live ashore again.
His eldest daughter, who married Edward
Thorogood, skipper of the trawler Sea
Marie, has so far supported her
father’s belief, and her two
children have lived their entire
young lives on board the Sea
Marie.
Over the years Vince has
been making additions to the
mystery, until her galleon-like
superstructure now makes her
the outstanding boat in a
remarkable fleet.
In spite of her unorthodox
appearance, the Mystery is
schooner-rigged for sailing, is
fitted with a 100-h.p. Meadow’s
diesel engine, and is equipped
with radio-telephone.
The family cooking is done
on a wood-stove, and there is
room for a sewing-machine and
such pets as cats, dogs, lizards and
goldfish.
The Mystery’s normal trip is from
three to 10 days, but she can remain at
sea if necessary for up to six weeks.
For the past couple of seasons Vince
has been concentrating on the big banana-
prawns in the Bundaberg-Gladstone area.
And now there’s a permanent market in
the United States for Queensland prawns
and scallops.
Fishermen on other trawlers lift the
receivers of their radio-telephones and
hear:
“Mystery calling Sea Marie. Mystery
calling Sea Marie. Over.”
“Sea Marie receiving you loud. Over.”
“Mystery calling Sea Marie. Better get
those nappies in. Looks like a shower
coming up. Over” ...
Vince is part of the fleet —and part of
a pioneering upsurge that is winning
wealth from Queensland’s unexplored
coastal waters.
Hugh V. Clarke.
• * * *
CABLES have reported a bloody battle,
somewhere in Europe, between two
frog-armies, resulting in the destruction
of one and the capture of its females by
the victors. The noise of the raging
battle kept a village awake, and was


%
//N i
,J ° Sr /A 1 7?Mt
✓J3
'Vjsy- -f^^j CLl^O
■=*. TM.


“That you, dear? I've just been listening to some tripe about
life on other planets."
taken to portend some calamity . . . such
as, perhaps, editors all over the world
walking with a limp for a while. —
“Basso.”
* * * *
p'RIME and punishment in Samoa —
two pictures.. (1) A party of
prisoners in striped lava-lavas leisurely
cutting grass around Government build-
ings, each one armed with a gleaming
three-foot bush-knife. Plenty conversa-
tion and laughter, plenty long pauses to
sharpen knives, plenty taro for lunch.
(2) Returning to jail on the back of an
open truck, one falls off as the driver
changes-down for a hill. He is observed
running after the truck, yelling to be
taken back aboard. Truck stops, he
abuses the driver, his laughing mates
pull him up, and the journey to the
terrible prison is resumed. Any applica-
tions for transfer from Long Bay?—
“loane.”
• * * •
“J. 8.”: Emerged from the tail-timber
country of Westralia’s deep-south to find
an Albany grocery sporting the appro-
priate sign: “Kash and Karri.”
* * * *
“Motuku”: The giant bufo-toads that
were imported into Queensland to wipe
out the sugarcane-beetle and have recently
been playing havoc among hive-bees
were a problem left by the Nips to the
Yanks in Guam, till someone sent them
a consignment of tilapia from the
Philippines. Widely cultivated for food,
these fish thrive on toads’-eggs, which
are laid in stagnant water. But it is
likely that tilapia, if brought here for
the same purpose, would follow the
pestiferous example of the gambusia-
fish, which were introduced here to
eradicate the mosquito, and which destroy
the ova of many of our native fishes. We
are probably much better off without
them, as our tally of eradicators that
eradicate the eradicators of their eradi-
cators is quite long enough.
* * * *
Cattle-sale over, someone
had a decrepit old stockhorse put up for
auction. “How old is she?” called a
would-be purchaser. A laconic voice
from the rail-fence replied: “Six years,
of course —same age as any horse you
buy in a saleyard.”
• * * *
“Fell Maken”: Not in the pioneering
days, but last month. A hot Saturday-
afternoon in the Monaro (N.S.W.). Only
Dad and Mum and daughter at home.
Neighbors—both sides —all away ; son
playing tennis miles from home. Dad
crippled-up from an accident and in
wheelchair. Phone rings. Mum answers.
Voice: “This is Ken” (the local post-
master, four miles away). “Fire is
sweeping up Trig Hill, travelling fast.
Will be over the hill and in your pad-
docks within half-an-hour at most. Get
your sheep out of the top-paddocks.”
Mum distraught. Daughter has her pony
tethered in home-paddock; no other
horses in sight. No time for saddling
the pony, so Mary gets aboard, whistles
a dog and off she goes ; in 20 minutes
has the paddocks cleared and the sheep
on the road. Fire comes over the hill,
and is within 200yds. of the homestead
when a shower quenches it. Just an every
day occurrence in our country districts,
you will say, and daughter was there to
do the job. But Mary is only eight.
* * * *
“Noah”: That retracing an impressive
trip on a map can be an anticlimax was
strongly impressed on me by a coastal
tramp between Port Campbell and
Warrnambool (Vic.). Thor’s hammer
could not have exceeded the foreshore-
damage done by a continual angry sea;
evident in steep gorges, subterranean
tunnels, and peninsulas carved from the
mainland for a slow but sure disinte-
gration. History records 13 shipwrecks
along the short stretch.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: There is a curious
similarity of pattern in mass-murders like
those that have been keeping the
authorities busy in the Telefomin area of
Papua. The drill is either to invite a
sizeable body of your neighbors to sample
your hospitality, or wangle an invitation
to their house-party, and then, with
cunningly-concealed armament, swoop
on your guests or hosts, as the case may
be. The Telefomin slaughter closely
paralleled the massacre on Moa Island,
Torres Straits, in the ’seventies, in which
the Radii Islanders virtually exterminated,
with weapons they had concealed in their
sleeping-mats, their unsuspecting hosts.
HADJI-JACK
Hadji-Jack, the hawker-man, set out for
Inverell
With praying-mat and Koran to convert
the infidel.
When he reached that busy township he
wandered up and down
And preached and read the Koran to the
people of the town.
But, alas, for his intentions, it was plain
to man and beast
The reaction of the townsfolk was strange,
to say the least.
He preached to Ben the barman. Ben
said, “Good on you, Jack !’’
Gave him some pipe-tobacco and slapped
him on the back.
He lectured Widow Watson on the loath-
someness of ham.
The widow smiled and gave him two jars
of home-made jam.
He won six eggs from Mrs. Brown, some
rice from Mr. Chan,
A dozen navel-oranges from Father
Harrigan.
At last, footsore and convertless, he
sought the homeward track
With the gifts of the good townsfolk in
a bag upon his back.
He shook his head, a puzzled man, and
sighed and murmured, “Well,
Perhaps l come here next month and
convert the infidel .”
N.S.W.
MENA KASHMIRI ABDULLAH.


There must be some blind-spot in the
native psychology which prevents the
smelling of a rat behind a sudden
cordiality exhibited by former enemies,
or the transparent murder-plans could
not catch the intended victims napping.
* * * *
“Tabba”: Mason-wasps, bound by a
strict routine, are incapable of coping
with any interference to schedule when
building their clay nests. If the spider
is removed from a cell that’s nearing
completion the wasp lays its egg where
the victim should have been, and seals
the cell as though all was well. If the
whole of one wall is broken away the
wasp makes no attempt at repairs, but
lays its egg and seals the entrance,
although the larva is doomed, because
the spider will dry-out. If the whole nest
is removed from the wall before the final
coat is applied the wasp conscien-
tiously plasters the vacant site, apparently
unaware that it is closing the door after
the stable has gone.
* * * *
“Mulloway”: The parrot-fish admired
by the Romans was better entitled to
that name than many of our Australian
“parrot-fishes,” as it was one
of the Scaridce, which have not
only the brilliant parrot-colors
but also the fused incisor-teeth
which form a parrotlike beak.
Several of our Labridce, or
wrasses, with thick fleshy lips
and tusklike teeth, are also
called parrot-fishes because of
their brilliant colors, among
them the beautiful and excellent
food-fish the “blue parrot” of
the Queensland markets. Both
Labridce and Scaridce have the
bones of the throat modified to
form a secondary grinding-
equipment, and this gave the
ancient Greeks and Romans the
idea that their parrot-fish,
Scarus crentensis, chewed the
cud.
* * *
“A.J.M.”: Ground-nesting
birds may possibly be helped
against the fox by the fact that
when sitting on the nest they
apparently give out no scent
whatever. I’ve seen good pig-dogs stand
within a foot or so of a sitting sand-
runner and be unaware of it. Again, in
bad goanna country J’ve seen a chook
leave the run, go bush, and come back
escorting a clutch of chicks. An inspec-
tion of the nest revealed goanna-tracks
passing within a couple of feet, all
directed towards the impregnable fowl-
run. If Nature hadn't looked after that
angle, we wouldn’t have any ground-
birds left.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: The cows had been on
agistment for months, and a lot of calves
had been born. Then rain fell on the
owner’s own property, so he decided to
take his cattle home, though there was
a 48-mile dry-stage along the route. The
agistment-country wasn’t fenced, and it
took us nearly a fortnight to muster it.
We’d get what we could each day and
bring them to a central camp, where a
couple of us held them. The calves got
so used to that camp they reckoned it
was their home. When at last we got
them all together we set out on the trip,
but we hadn’t gone more than two miles
when every calf in the mob stuck its tail
in the air and broke back to camp, with
their bellowing mothers following. We
had another try, but the calves weren’t
having any. The owner, on reconsidera-
tion, took the agistment for another
month, and in that month general rain
fell. This time the calves moved off
without trouble. We wondered if the
little blokes sensed that there would be
no dry-stage this time.
* c * *
“Yellow Five”: The police-trooper had
brought the myall in to our little N.Q.
bush-hospital with ruptured appendix.
He was operated on at once, the surgeon
inserting two large rubber-drains into
his abdominal cavity. Under morphia,
he slept for the remainder of the day ;
but the night-nurse found the tubes and
his dressings neatly laid-out on his
locker and his bed empty. Police,
“Tell y' what about Adaminaby—the FISHIN’s improved .”
frantically . summoned, failed to bring
him back. “I wouldn’t worry too much,”
said the wise old sergeant. “He’s prob-
ably sleeping it off somewhere with his
belly packed ir. clay. He’ll be all
rieht.” At any rate, his corpse was never
found.
* * * *
“Hawsbill”: I had just taken over the
8 p.m.-to-midnight shift on the Booby
Island (Q.) lighthouse, during light rain,
when I heard the first bugle of a goose ;
soon about 40 big black-and-white
fellows were circling the tower, evidently
dazzled by the light. As they slowly
flopped to the rocks my mate and I
caught several; the rain then eased, and
the rest of the flock honked their way
out to sea and safety.
* * * *
"CARLY in the morning the Chinese
faller came to work on a billian
on which the previous afternoon he had
axed-in the front scarf. It was only a
medium-sized tree, but to get above the
buttresses he was using a platform 6ft.
above ground. If he had paused, as was
usual practice, to light a pair of joss-
sticks at the roots of his day’s first job,
he would have seen his trouble coiled
malevolently round the butt.
Not noticing it there, he imprudently
unbelted his parrang, hung it to
the platform, climbed up and
started chopping-in the back-cut. The
python fastened on his hip, top jaw sin.
in on the groin, lower jaw Sin. back on
the buttock.
The axeman yelled blue murder and
dropped his axe, while the head tandil,
coming up the railway only 40yds.
distant, ran to his aid. The grizzle-headed
foreman, with years of experience of
Borneo jungles, sized-up the situation
and did not rush in wielding his parrang.
He blew his whistle of authority with
piercing urgency until 16 of the hand-
trucking crew had collected round him,
and then in concert they straightened out
the reptile, prised its jaws off its intended
meal, and lashed it to a felled sapling.
It was then carried back to camp,
decanted into a spare coffin, and shipped
to Singapore, where its 19ft. 6in. length
realised two dollars 50 cents per foot.
The human bait, who lost two days’
work and healed quite cleanly, collected
25 per cent, of the loot, and the first things
he bought were some extra-gaudy red-
wax joss-sticks to be lit every morning as
he started work.
SEVENELMS.


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
m
I
Advance bookine essential
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modern Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private I.ounge
and - Sumptuous Public
Lounge. f
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Variety Sharemarket
TTHERE’S never a dull
in the share-
markets these weeks, even
though the general trend at
present may be a little hesi-
tant, after a sustained rise.
With Henry Jones at 615.,
buyers (no sellers), Burns
Philp at 615., and A.C.1., coin-
cidentally, also at 615., there’s
a pretty firm front to the
market. 8.H.P., its rights out
of the way, is steady at 455.,
and other first-class stocks have
Remained in firm demand.
I Behind the leaders there has
been a certain amount of specu-
lative milling-round, but every
so often a fillip is given to a
particular section by a new de-
velopment. John Vicars, for
instance, has drawn attention
to woollen textiles by raising
its interim div.-rate to 7 p.c.
(from 6 p.c.) at long last (the
tax-free element, is down a
little this year), and it reports
increased profits for the De-
cember half-year. Patons and
Baldwins has been consistently
firm for several weeks past,
though Australian Woollen
Mills, a leader in the woollen
industry, has weakened a little
lately.
Associated Pulp, which has
been up and down several times
recently, firmed smartly on the
announcement of a new issue
(one-for-five, at par), and
Coles and Woolworths, of
course, have been both well in
the news.
All in all, it is a very
intriguing sharemarket, but one
that needs watching in thefc
vulnerable sections.
Hanimex Corporation, Ltd,
A GREAT boom in photo-
graphy has followed the
ending of war-time shortages
and improvement in methods
of making color-photographs
and color-transparencies (movie
and still).
With color-photography has
come new emphasis on 35mm.
“still” cameras and on light-
meters, not to mention viewers,
projectors and the like. The
box-camera may still be the
mainstay of the photographic
industry, but the emphasis on
color, taken in more expensive
cameras and needing more
expensive equipment for
viewing, has been really
phenomenal.
The background of Hanimex
Corporation, Ltd., which is at
present making a public share-
issue, tends to coincide with
this great interest in color-
photography. Initially engaged
in import and distribution, the
Hanimex group has developed
into the largest manufacturer
of photographic equipment in
Australia.
To start near the beginning,
Hanimex Holdings Pty., Ltd.,
was formed in October, 1949,
and acquired all the issued
ordinary capital of Hanimex
Pty v Ltd., which had been
formed in 1947 to import,
manufacture and distribute
cameras, etc., mostly German.
Directly or indirectly, Hanimex
Holdings also owns all the
issued capital in Fotek Corpora-
“ Aesthetically, a job on th' new Opera House would give
me a deeper feeling of satisfaction .”
tion Pty., Hanimex (Overseas)
Pty., Photo Holdings, Ltd.
(Auckland), Hanimex (U.S.A.),
Inc., Hanimex (U K.), Ltd., and
Photo Export Pty.
The Fotek co., which was
formed in March, 1956, makes
and distributes photo-equip-
ment; in conjunction with
Hanimex Pty. it is making
Argus projectors under U.S.
licence.
Control of all these com-
panies was passed to Hanimex
Corporation, Ltd., which was
formed in Canberra on April
9, 1956, and took over all the
capital of Hanimex Holdings
(with the exception of £15,000
of 7 p.c. pref. capital) for
£158,397 in cash, of which
£155,897 was reinvested in
623,588 ss. ords. in the new
controlling co. A further
21,200 shares were taken-up
following the acquisition from
the same vendors of shares in
Hanimex (Overseas) by a sub-
sidiary. Then an additional
167,980 shares were issued at
par to employees and business
associates.
At December 31 Hanimex
Corporation had a paid-up
capital of £203,192, invested
in consolidated group assets of:
Freehold (at Brookvale,
N.S.W.), £7633 ; plant, vehicles,
etc., £63,412 ; dies and moulds,
£33,150 ; lease - premiums,
£3061 ; stocks, £243,884;
debtors, £234,710; cash, etc.,
£27,344 ; intangibles (including
excess of cost-price of shares in
subsidiaries over net asset
values), £66,089.
Liabilities, including pro-
vision for tax and dividend,
totalled £411,148, and out-
side shareholders’ interests
amounted to £25,359. Net
tangible assets on this
December 31 basis were equal
to 4s. 4d. per ss. share.
The public is at present]
being offered 600,000 ss. ords.
at par in order to construct a
modern factory for the group
at Brookvale (N.S.W.), install
new plant, and increase work-]
ing capital: a move which, on
balance-sheet figures, seems
logical.
Manufacture is at present
carried on in rented premises ; ]
products include Argus slide-
projectors, previewers, slide-
viewers, flash - guns, slide -
mounts, slide-boxes and con-
tainers, cine-reels, developing-
tanks and other accessories.
The new factory will broaden
the co.’s scope.
The co. has been able to
er\ter the export field competi-
tively, and is planning an
organised onslaught on the
U.K. market. Any relaxation in
Australian import-restrictions,
the board maintains, will benefit
the co.
The board talks of a 10 p.c.
dividend. For the term to
June 30 last consolidated net
profit was £45,593 ; for the
half-year to December 31,
£42,205 (nine months in respect
of the N.Z. subsidiary and five
months in respect of the U.S.
subsidiary), but the special
benefit of seasonal and Christ-
mas trade is felt by some


For Information Only
RUTILE ISSUE
THE RUTILE CORPORATION OF
AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
l" C °J P f rated Under the Com P an Jes Act, 1931-1955, of the State of Queensland on the
20th day of September, 1956, and registered in New South Wales on the 21st day of
March, 1957
PRESENT ISSUE AT PAR (2/6) OF 800,000 SHARES, PAY-
ABLE THREEPENCE AS APPLICATION AND ALLOTMENT
MONIES TOGETHER WITH A PREPAYMENT OF A CALL
OF 2/3.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY:
Having located a large tonnage of rutile and zircon over part 'of its area, this
Company intends to carry out further geological testing prior to installation of plant and
equipment for the purpose of mining rutile, zircon, and other valuable associated minerals.
.The areas over which the Company at present holds options, and has acquired
applications for leases, are situated in the Pottsville area and Byron. Bay-Ballina Districts
of Northern New South Wales and Mackay Districts of Queensland.
DIRECTORS:
JOHN THOMAS WATERTON, M.C., of Orchid Avenue, Surfers
Paradise, Queensland, Company Director (Chairman and Managing
Director).
LANCE SLY, of Woodenbong, N.S.W., Sawmiller.
CLAUDE RICHARD VARLEY, of Old Burleigh Road, Rroadbeach,
Queensland, Insurance Broker.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
Dougbar Building, Nerang Street, Southport, Queensland.
REGISTERED OFFICE (Sydney):
Lower Ground Floor, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The minimum amount on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is £26,500.
Prospectus and application forms obtainable from the registered offices of the
Company in either Southport or Sydney, or from the office of the brokers to the issue,
Messrs. Claude R. Varley & Co., Lower Ground Floor, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney. Application
for shares will be received only on forms of application referred to and endorsed on a
printed copy of the prospectus.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE
Claude R. Varley & Co., Black’s Building, Scarborough Street,
Southport, Quensland, and Lower Ground Floor, 72 Pitt Street,
Sydney. (Telephones: Southport 1614; Sydney 8W7280.)
In this advertisement the requirements of Section 137 of the Companies Act, 1936, of
the State of New South Wales have not been fully complied with.
NO APPLICATIONS FOR SHARES WILL BE ACCEPTED BY THE COMPANY EXCEPT
ON THE APPLICATION FORM PROVIDED WITH SUCH PROSPECTUS.
Claude R. Varley A Co.,
Lower Ground Floor, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Please forward me, without obligation, a copy of the prospectus for your issue of 800,000
shares at par of 2/6 each.
NAME ..
ADDRESS
Date
members of the group during
that period.
The 1955-56 full year’s profit
is equal to 12.4 p.c. on the
capital of £353,192 (as it will
stand after completion of the
present issue).
The Birdrong Sand
IFrom L,. Owen]
HTHE failure of Dirk Hartog,
-*■ No. 17b well to produce
anything more than “a gas
odor and some fluorescence”
from a core taken between
2687 ft. and 2701 ft.—and “no
shows of oil or gas” from a
formation-test over the interval
from 2684 ft. to 2722 ft.—
appears to have destroyed the
remnants of any hope which
Wapet still entertained that the
Birdrong sand might prove to
be a commercial oil-reservoir.
Dirk Hartog Island—as was
long ago anticipated here—
most probably owes its exis-
tence to a marked strati-
graphical “high” in the
Cretaceous and post-Cretaceous
beds underlying it. The proof
of the existence of this “high”
by structural drilling does not,
however, justify any expecta-
tion of the occurrence of an
oil “pool” within these strata
without evidence of other
essential conditions.
As the deepest (No. 4) of the
structural bores sunk—prior to
the currently-drilling 4000 ft.
test—reached only 1500 ft., it is
obvious that very little direct
information is available from
these holes With reference to
the underlying pre-Cretaceous
structures. In fact, such
information must, of necessity,
have been confined to the
Cardabia group, the lowest
member of which is placed
in the upper Cretaceous.
My opinion—often expressed
in print—is that the Birdrong
horizon has produced no
evidence of potentialities as an
oil-reservoir, except in isolated
instances, such as in Rough
Range No. 1 well, where the
oil was fed to it by an unusual
combination of factors.
The reason for the barrenness
of the Birdrong horizon may
be attributed, largely, to the
long period of non-deposition
which persisted over most of the
area in question from Upper
Permian to Lower Jurassic
times. Personally, I have little
doubt that the source-beds of
the Rough Range oil can be
I no younger than Lower
' Permian: they could be much
* older. I visualise the obviously
‘ long-migrated and inspissated
> Rough Range petroleum as a
n remnant, on the early Jurassic
land-mass, of a much more
impressive seep (or collection
of seeps) which, before com-
plete dispersal, was preserved
by the timely deposition of the
Birdrong bed.
This “fossil-seep” hypothesis
is now further strengthened by
the latest press-release, which
states that the Dirk Hartog
core, taken around 2700 ft., “did
not show any porosity or
permeability except along
fractures.” It will be interesting
to learn whether or not non-
rhythmic conditions occur in
the pre-Birdrong strata in the
Dirk Hartog test.
In any case, the problem of
tracing the path which the
petroleum followed in its
journey from the source-bed to
the early Jurassic surface is an
intriguing one, and its solution
may well produce results of
commercial value.
In spite of the failure of the
Birdrong sandstone —on which
so much money and so much
hard work has been expended
without tangible result I
cannot agree that a retreat,
northwards, from the Car-
narvon Basin is justified until
a great deal more direct
evidence as to the charac-
teristics and tectonic history of
its deeper beds has been
obtained from well-cores and
at outcrop.
Central Queensland Salt
YX/TTH the object of operat-
’ ’ ing solar salt-works at
Casuarina, about 21 miles from
Rockhampton, Central Queens-
land Salt Industries, Ltd., has
been formed in Brisbane. The
vendors of the mineral lease to
be worked take £15,000 in
fully-paid shares, have a par
option over another 30,000 10s.


a
M
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
'Phone: BWIOII, BW 1012, BW 4991
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
All types of General Insurance
Directors:
SIR VICTOR WILSON, K.B.E. (Chairman)
JAMES H. STEPHENSON (Deputy Chairman)
S. E, A. STIRLING, STRUAN ROBERTSON,
R. G. GALE
A. C. MAITLAND, N. E. MANION,
Managing Director Manager
tranches and Agencies in all State*.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
shares,, and get £3OOO in cash
for out-of-pocket expenses.
The public is being offered
450,000 10s. shares at par
(which is the minimum sub-
scription for allotment). Cost of
plant, etc., is put at £163,500,
preliminaries at £12,500, and
working capital at £46,000.
The property covers 1200
acres, about 1000 acres of it
level claypan. Natural brines
occur in the extensive beds of
sand and gravel underlying the
claypans. These brine-charged
beds are up to (roughly) 200 ft.
thick, and are said to -be of
great area. The salt-content is
two-and-a-half times and up to
four times that of sea-water.
Other salt-works in Australia
(mostly in S.A. and Victoria)
depend on sea-water for pro-
duction of salt.
It is proposed to pump the
brine from underground into
artificial ponds for further
evaporation by the sun. Con-
centration depends on net
evaporation.,
Average rainfall in the
district is around 32.5 in., with
an estimated net evapora-
tion of 36.7 in., compared with
38in. at Port Pirie and 27.1 in.
at Geelong.
The co. plans on a minimum
output of 15,000 tons of salt
to begin with, compared with
Queensland’s salt consumption
of 30,000 tons a year. Cost of
production is put at an average
of £5 6s. Bd. for all grades of
salt. A selling-price of £l4
a ton (current Brisbane selling-
price £lB os. 6d.) is proposed,
and, after allowing for depre-
ciation and taxation, a profit
of £67,400 is estimated, equal
to 28 p.c. on the proposed
capital of £240,000.
Considerable freight advant-
ages are anticipated on salt sold
in Central Queensland, where
there are meatworks, butter-
factories, butcheries and exten-
sive grazing areas.
The prospectus says that
Central Queensland is richly
endowed with large deposits of
coal, limestone and indigenous
sulphur, all cheaply mined by
opencut methods. “These
minerals, together with salt and
its by-products, are the basic
raw materials required in the
chemical industry. It is
proposed, at a later stage, to
utilise the by-products formed
in the manufacture of salt at
the co.’s works with the object
of establishing a chemical by-
products industry. Large
tonnages of salt are produced
in Australia and elsewhere for
the sole use in heavy-chemical
industries, and the co. should
have no difficulty in disposing
of any excess production to
those industries.”
The flotation is not exces-
sively loaded with vendors’
charges, and it seems to have
been reasonably planned. It
would appear, however, that if
the co. has to freight its salt
to Brisbane (at a charge of
£6 7s. 9d. a ton) it would need
to reduce its selling-price, at
works, somewhat below £l4
a ton to compete with other
salt. However, in the central
area it should have advantages.
Conversation-piece—
Theodore-Packer Pact
[By O. V. Side]
“117 HAT’S tVs report about
™ D. F. H. Packer, of
Sydney ‘Daily Telegraph,’
acquiring the shares in Con-
solidated Press held by N. B.
Theodore?”
“Don't you remember ‘The
World’ newspaper started by
Labor Papers, Ltd., in 1931?”
“Can't say I do.”
“Probably you never saw it.
It was managed by party-men
instead of journalists, and had
a circulation of about five-and-
a-haif. They made the care-
taker manager, and he thought
a fount of type was a Papal
one, bought rat-traps and
cheeses to fill in his time
chasing rats in McDonnell
House, whilst the liftman
sounded the death-knell of
circulation as he intoned:
‘Going down! Going down!
Going down!’”
“Must have been a funny
show.”
“Funny? All the unionists
who were levied for it are still
laughing.”
“What happened?”
“On the board was Edward
Granville Theodore, his lip of
destiny curling with the honor
Mungana Mines heaped upon
him. When ‘The World’s’ toes
were about to point up, Queens-
land’s ex-Premier, and ex-
Commonwealth Treasurer, got
a fiduciary-note gleam in his
eye, and an option on the plant.
Theodore said a new planet
would arise in the newspaper
firmament to cast light upon
the inner darkness of the news-
paper-readers of Sydney. It
was to be ‘The Star.’ The
‘World’ staff was told to get out
newspaper-dummies of ‘The
Star.’ These dummies were
rushed about the city to likely
advertisers by staff-men as
eager as ecstatic ants and
nectar-searching bees.”
“I never heard of ‘The Star’
either.’’
“How could you? It nevei
came out. ‘The Sun’ saw
the dummy, put £60,000 (some
say £80,000) in the hat tc
placate the gods of Mass Cir-
culations, and ‘The Star’ wen
up to the stars to revolvi
around in Outer Space fo
evermore.”
“Sixty - thousand smacker
for a paper dummy?”
“Yes, and not a fiduciary
issue, either. The Theodore
Packer Pact was against bring
ing out a new evening pape
for so many years. The pac
produced a woman’s paper am
snowballed to ‘The Daily Tele
graph,’ ‘The Sunday Telegraph
and almost swallowed ‘Th
Sun,’ which started the snow
ban.”
“Quite a big business.” I
“Certainly, but the worker!
friend did not consider theij
losses before his gains.
“As Antony said over th
dead Caesar, ‘this was the moJ,
unkindest cut of all’ ... an
what a big cut!”
“What did Labor Paper
Ltd., get?”
“Ah, my friend! They g<
two dozen rat-traps, an asto!
ishly large cheese, and a gre;
hole in their financial sock.”
“Theodore was a financi
genius, of course.”
“Obviously.”
“That was the time wh<
Lang was right?”
“Yes, Lang was right, but f
was left. Theodore was Let
but he ended up all right.”
Newspaper Problems
TVESPITE the recent di
appearance of one mornii
competitor, “The Argus,” at)
the acquisition of more of j
readers than the other coij
petitor, “The Sun,” expecte
there will be no interi
dividend from David Syme ai
Co., Ltd., publishers of “T
Age” in Melbourne.
Costs, the directors repo
have been climbing too steadi!
The announcement presages
rise in the cost of Melboun
dailies.
“The Age’s” chief drain 1
of course, the cost of new
print. Its Saturday edition
64 pages weighs a poui
which is roughly a bob’s-wo
of newsprint, and a 32-pt;
evening “Herald” takes s
penn’orth of newsprint.




SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Thomas L. Thomas
Tall, somewhat gaunt, with
quick nervous movements,
Welsh baritone Thomas L.
Thomas has the habit of drap-
ing himself over the Steinway
while he yarns to his accom-
panist, Jacob Hannemann
(and a very good one
he is, too) about a song to
be sung. He’ll tap out the
rhythm on the polished wood
for a bar or two, then whirl
around and begin. He employs
a range of facial expressions
any character-actor would
settle for, and a smile any
matinee-idol would gladly
swap.
He is also a very well-
equipped singer. His voice,
produced right along the
gamut with facility, extends
well up—he is able to land on
to an A without strain. He
has an easy control on the
half-voice, a smooth legato;
he is able to turn on plenty of
power at need, and he has
faultless diction.
At his opening Sydney Town
Hail concert he first trod the
conventional track with a
group of early-Italian songs,
including Salvator Rosa’s
“Star Vicino” a beauti-
fully smooth lyrical flow,
this Pergolesi’s* best-
known song, “Nina”; Legrenzi’s
fine “Che Fiero Costume”;
and Rossini’s fast and brilliant
tarantella, “La Danza.”
He swung north, then,
sampling some choice Gallic
vintages: Hahn’s lovely
“L’Heure Exquise,” Chausson’s
delicate and subtle “Le Temps
des Lilas,” and a traditional
Breton air, “L’Angelus.”
Among some of the off-the-
beaten-track French operatic
excerpts were the forceful
“Devant la Maison,” from
Berlioz’s “D amnation of
Faust” ; the passionate protest
of the imprisoned goldsmith
which is one of the best things
in Diaz’s “Benvenuto Cellini” ;
and “Chanson Bachique” from
Ambroise Thomas’s “Hamlet”
—an aria worthy of being heard
more often.
Other unusual contributions
were some Gypsy songs by
Dvorak, and some lilting love-
songs of the Iberian Peninsula
by Da Falla.
The traditional Welsh songs
were a revelation. Melodically
rich, and ranging in mood from
the devotional to the comic,
they were sung with the greatest
artistry by Thomas, who
revelled especially in those,
such as “Counting the Goats,”
which had running through
them a strong vein of humor.
He brought this same flair to
bear on his Negro spirituals,
Unk Whitt's impressions of “The Greatest Show on Earth,” at its usual Sydney
stamping-ground in Prince Alfred Park, back o’ Central Station.
in which he sometimes em-
ployed a whipcrack, high
ultimate note to get the best
comic effect.
❖ ♦>
“Lower Education”
Not until you see a Uni-
versity revue do you realise
how so many things over which
heads are scratched and brows
wrinkled are potential in-
gredients of a good laugh.
None commits this act of
raillery better than the student-
group ; they do it with a mock-
derision, a bawdiness and a
gusto that are their stock-in-
trade.
Sydney University Dramatic
Society staged its annual revue
in the University’s Union Hall,
and, offering a course in
“Lower Education, - ’ provided
a good night’s entertainment,
with some particularly bright
spots.
Appearing early in the piece
as the “Sunken Belle,” Miss
Freda Leslie put the audience
in the right mood. She was
the frustrated mermaid, bitterly
combing the knots in her
tresses, “just a sea-cow named
Desire.”
The night’s best solo effort
came from Allan Kendall in a
piece nakedly entitled “Solo
Drama.” He put on a bonnet
and plaits, raucously hummed
“Home Sweet Home” and was
an artless young maiden ; he
put on sailor’s hat and a
swagger and was her sailor-
boyfriend ; and he put on a
bowler-hat and a peremptory
air and was a landlord-come-
for-the-rent. Then, when the
landlord had whispered an
alternative to the rent into his
ear, he came to his rescue as
his sailor-boyfriend and a
hilarious fight took place. He
fought himself and was dis-
tressed at his other two selves
fighting. Dexterous and very
clever.
In “The Greeks Had A Word
For It,” Freda Leslie led Allan
Kendall and Martyn Corbett
in an incantation, and they
echoed her chants, with signi-
ficant accents and modulations.
But when she led with “David
Jones,” they steadfastly insisted
“Anthony Horderns”; and
they shouted one another down
until she had last cry and they
shamefully turned their backs
on her. Then, when she wailed
“Rosewall,” they plugged for
Gonzales, and they again
increased volume until, pausing
and following the flight of the
ball, they gave the verdict to
Gonzales.
And as many other skits as
possible were fitted into an
evening’s programme child-
welfare (children most pre-
cocious); a comparison of
male and female hat-buying;
the first trip to the moon;
films and TV; the judging of
an art-competition (a bright
sketch); the sick-and-idle-rich ;
health-schemes ; opera (with-
out music) : “Big Brothers of
the Press” (Eric Baume and
Oliver Hogue the targets),
There were some nice little
numbers—musical and animal:
we liked the tune, lyrics and
presentation of “Norman the
Mormon” and “Freudian
Rabbits”; and we liked the
component parts of Jo Fletcher
and Val Kelly.
❖ ❖ ❖
Indian Dancers
Shivaram has made a
reappearance at the National
Theatre, Melbourne, this time
with a new dance-maie, Ibe-
tombi. Ibetombi is claimed to
be Manipur’s best female
dancer, and there is no reason
to doubt it. If there is any
other female dancer in that I
ancient home of the dance who!


Missing Friend
LNYONE knowing the whereabouts of
fHS. BELLE O’CONNOR, formerly of
00 St. Kildu Street, Brighton, kindly
TUE TRUSTEES
'.XECUrOKS & AGENCY CO., LTD.,
leibourne.
BY ANY
STANDARD
The terms offered for the
Commonwealth Security
Loan now open include all
the advantages regarded by
investors as essential. Both
capital and income are fully
safeguarded by Common-
wealth Government
guarantees. Rates of inter-
est are attractive, and a
convenient choice of
maturity dates is offered.
Tax-paying Common-
wealth Loan investors also
make considerable savings
in Income Tax through a
special rebate. Lodge your
application now.
You may select from:
S |CBBW« S
m Issued at pat
Matures WaV * 5,
19SS
Subscript loll
£lOO
steoßiTrtS
Issued at pat
Maturing W 1
1965
Maturing ton* 15>
1976
Minimum Subscription
£lO
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITY LOAN Now Open
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN ALL STATES
CONVERT 3% COMMONWEALTH SECURITIES
MATURING APRIL 15, 1957,
into new Bonds or Inscribed Stock on the terms offered for the Cash Loan now open.
Authorized by the Commonwealth Treasury .
■>«■=.! 7h IJF
metaphorically speaks the
language better or with more
grace and controlled emotion
one would like to see her.
When for half-a-second she
freezes in some pose or other,
with her arms and feet this
way and that way and her head
like a flower on a bent stalk,
she instantly recalls the sculp-
ture on the temples built some-
where around 2000 b.c. In one
dance, Chitrangada, she tells
the story of how a maiden
princess of Manipur decked
herself for hunting in a grove
of a dense forest and the
exiled prince Arjuna caught her
it it and she became the hunted
instead of the huntress.
All this happened about
1500 b.c. That an art-form
Which has lasted so long
should not have become
cormularised and conventional
s amazing—although S'nivaram
jias possibly something to do
with that.
His lithe brown body, deli-
cate feet and fingers, his quick
:hanges of expression and his
strange birdlike movements
seem grotesque by Western
standards, yet they are so
vierdly living that you start
wondering what on earth he is
joing to do next.
The rich costumes and the
strange haunting Indian music
ire equally unexpected.
Artbursts
Melbourne Shows
The modern idiom is con-
picuous by its absence in
urrent Melbourne art-shows,
This may be purely accidental,
>r possibly the contemporaries
ire preparing in a thousand
lugouts for a collective on-
laught and will hop-over later
n the season.
The Sedon Galleries are dis-
maying twelve large canvases
n the Australian tradition. A
ypical Longstaff portrait of
i bearded unknown is firmly
nodelled and innocent of dis-
ortion, and a Streeton land-
cape is clean and lucid. A
ensitive Penleigh Boyd and a
omantic Walter Withers have
>uality about them and there
? his usual vigorous drawing
n a watercolor by Norman
Jndsay of a fall-out of radio-
tctive females from some
sagan heaven. Sturgess, who


spent most of his life seeing
Williamstown through pearly
veils of fog and mist, is repre-
sented by a little seascape.
There is more- of the real
skill of the painter in this
exhibition than there is in the
show of Timothy Messack, at
the Athenaeum. A Ukrainian,
he has been trained in the
academic tradition and, applied
to still-life and portraits, it
works out very badly. When,
however, he turns to the South
Australian landscape he often
hits-off an effect of warm light
and glowing color, as in a
group of kids on a jetty. The
contrast between these and the
dead-looking portraits is sur-
prising. A coastal scene won a
£lOO prize in Adelaide.
Jack Courier is a Melbourne
artist who went to London and
more-or-less starved there while
he studied at the Slade School.
He emerged therefrom with a
technical equipment sufficient
to enable him to produce litho-
graphs and drawings of bits of
old London with a line which
is often heavy and unfeeling,
but sometimes light and expres-
sive. His oils have an elusive
quality about them as if
painted in the twilight.
The Melbourne Camera
Club’s International Exhibition
at the Town Hall does not
come into the category of art,
but it is nonetheless more
interesting than most art-shows.
The camera-fiend is as much
a hound for the unusual as the
modern artist. He prefers
bird’s-eye views or slug’s-eye
views and any aspect denied to
ordinary mortals. The foot-
prints of a duck on the snow
excite him much more than
a sunset, and a crowd of
Chinese outside a cinema all
with umbrellas up enthrals him
more than the loveliest nude
in existence.
The photographer can deal
easily with subjects impossible
for the painter—like the roaring
throat of a gorilla—and he has
only to press the button to get
effects that would take a
Rembrandt a lifetime.
The camera also sees much
more than the eye does and it
can’t help recording every'
detail, so the most boring
photographs in this show are
those which, from the photo-
graphic point of view, are the
best, in which every hair and
every wrinkle on some old face
is recorded. The best from
the artistic point of view are
those in which Nature has
thrown a providential fog over
a ship or a building, and some
of these are quite alluring.
Every nation has contributed
to this exhibition and it
includes photographs by
Chinese, Japanese, Indians and
Malayans. Although late-
comers to the white man’s
invention they seem to under-
stand the limitations of their
medium much better than the
Europeans.
Films
“The Iron Petticoat”
It’s not certain whether the
title of this comedy at Sydney
Mayfair refers to Miss Hep-
burn’s underwear or to the fact
that romance succeeds in
breaching the Iron Curtain,
but either way it’s a crisply
amusing piece directed with
brisk American efficiency.
Now that one has recovered
from Miss Hepburn’s Shaks-
pearian appearances in Sydney
Katharine Hepburn and Bob Hope, in “the Iron Petticoat,"
at Sydney Mayfair.
a while ago, it is possible to
return to admiring her lively
screen technique, this time as
a Soviet pilot with a minor
grudge who works-off her
temper by landing in the
American zone of West Ger-
many.
The hard, buzz-saw voice and
the almost masculine
swagger go very well in the
role of a deep-dyed Communist
who sees nothing but capitalist
propaganda in the American
courtesy, money, comfort and
efficiency with which she is
greeted, and Miss Hepburn’s
other charms are equally
impressive when her political
faith is first shaken by a black-
lace thingummy in a London
lingerie-shop.
Bob Hope, quieter than usual
but by no means subdued, is
the American pilot assigned
to converting Miss Hepburn
to capitalism, a task which
leaves him in considerable
pother with his fiance, an
English heiress—as he remarks,
“tantalising an heiress is like
not opening your parachute.”
The film is in color, which
makes the most of everything,
including . Miss Hepburn’s
freckles, the interiors of London
nightclubs and hotels, and the
strange Soviet agents who flit
in and out of the story like
rabbits in the bracken.
James Robertson Justice, as
a Soviet trade-commissioner in
London, and Robert Help-
mann, as a lovesick Russian
engineer who can’t dance, are
substantial contributors to the
comedy.
-A- -A A
v v v
“The Wings of Eagles”
The ads. for this Sydney St.
James offering describe John
Wayne as “a rousing, reckless,
romantic daredevil, storming
through terrific action-drama.”
That amounts almost to
modesty compared with the
general overstatement in the
film itself.
It’s about a Navy flyer called
“Spig” Wead —he is apparently
still living—and his domestic
barneys, his intransigence as an
officer, and his comeback to
some sort of duty after being
crippled in an accident at home.
By some means not explained
he becomes a top backroom-
designer of aircraft-carriers
while lying on his stomach
waiting fdr his broken back
to mend.
It’s rather a pity that the
film goes so far out of its way
to glorify hooliganism in the
Service. John Wayne is the
flyer—rather old and heavy for
the part of a dashing young
lootnent —and appears to get
away with a sustained defiance
of orders that would get him
scrubbed pronto in any other
Air Force. But apparently the
top-brass love him for it and
the more he bucks discipline the
bigger hero he seems to be.
The rivalry between Army and
Navy flyers, around which
much of the story turns,
appears to be generally resolved
by bashing pies in each other’s
faces as a prelude to drunken
brawls between officers.
The most disappointing
thing about the film, however,
is the work of director John
Ford. It’s hard to recognise
anywhere in it the hand of
the man who directed such
masterpieces as “The Informer”
and “The Long Voyage Home.” .l
+♦♦ ❖
“Hollywood or Bust”
The bust in this Martin-and-
Lewis nonsense, at Sydney
Prince Edward, is that of Anita (
Ekburg, who certainly doesn’t
go out of her way to conceal
what is, after all, her most
outstanding talent. Gambler
Dean Martin and no-hoper
Jerry Lewis jointly win a posh
limousine in an art-union by
methods not strictly ethical, and
they light-out from New York
for Hollywood, meeting with
various droll adventures en
route.
One of these forces Lewis to
become an extempore matador
when, venturing blithely into a
paddock to tap a cow for some
cheap milk, he finds himself
alone with a bull which lacks
a sense of humor and which
doesn’t appreciate the
comedian’s vivid red coat.
The color-cameras steal the
show. The car-trip becomes, in
effect, a Cook’s Tour across
the U.S., with the Boulder Dam,
the Grand Canyon and a.dozen!
other notable scenes thrown in!
for good measure. One of the
unexpected delights of rural
America is the vast array of
shapely cuties who may be
seen in their workaday clothes
of bra-tops and brief shorts
doing their various bucolic!
chores, albeit they handle three-l
prong forks as they would a
bail-point pen.
But it’s all good clean fun,
♦t* *i* ❖
Other Sydney Releases
“Out!” (Sydney St. James):
A harrowing United Nations
documentary of the no-man’s-
land which Hungarian refugees
must cross to reach Austria and
freedom, and of one family’s
efforts to get a migration
visa . . . “Run For the Sun”
(Sydney Plaza): Milk-and-
water adventure with Richard
Widmark and Jane Greer being
chased through a Central,
American jungle by a British
traitor and a Nazi war-criminal.


V.VE T
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
run uon.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR.
M.L.0., CHAIRMAN ;
SIR EDWARD U. KNOX.
VICE-CHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C.. LEWIS;
D. R. LTSAGHT:
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. 0. ARMYTAGE.
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
W. S. MATTHEWS.
manager.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED
£83,000,000
Efficient and Helpful Service
for your dependents . . .
ONE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a
man can do for his family is to ensure freedom from
all the cares and worries that so frequently go hand in
hand with Estate administration.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) as
your Executor and Trustee —alone, or jointly with a
relative or friend, you will ensure that, when the time
comes, your Estate will be in the safe, experienced hands
of a Company with a proud record of more than 70 years’
faithful service to the Community; you will ensure, for
your dependents, a service that is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of the Company’s service,
arid what it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an
appointment. If you prefer, ask that a copy of the
Company’s helpful and in-
formative booklet be sent to
you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trusted
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES \T ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY HOUSE
NATIONAL CIRCUIT
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED AT THE LEFT'
WARREN D. MCDONALD
VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. G. .McFARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Clyde Industries, Ltd.
TN accordance with the undertaking
A given by the co. before Mr. Justice
McLelland in the N.S.W. Equity Court
on November 13, the poll taken by Clyde
Industries, Ltd., at an extraordinary
general meeting of shareholders on
December 17 will not be declared until
the hearing of the suit, which is being
brought jointly by Australian Fixed
Trusts Pty., Ltd., and others, or until a
further direction is received from the
court.
The article of association which was
proposed to shareholders at the meeting
for adoption, and which was the subject
of the original difference between the co.
and the management of Australian Fixed
Trusts, was intended to regulate the
voting-rights of investment-trusts holding
ordinary shares in Clyde Industries.
Earlier, the directors of the co. had
disclosed that about 292,200 of the
1,981,918 shares are held by unit trusts.
Clyde has done well since the end of
the war. From the heavy-jobbing work
that was formerly the chief line of busi-
ness it has entered new fields of manu-
facturing and wholesale distribution.
Except for one co. (believed to be Green
Point Shipbuilding and Engineering Pty.,
which ceased activities during the
year), all the subsidiaries traded “satisfac-
torily” last year, and, in terms of sales,
the group put up its best effort yet,
despite import controls (which hit the
merchandising activities) and restrictions
on private and Government spending.
In one particular, the co. pointed out,
the tight-money policy has meant that the
Granv'lle diesel-locomotive plant hasn’t
been able to get enough orders from
Australian railways to show* an adequate
return on the investment in buildings
and equipment. Finance for the pur-
chase on t.rms of a number of diesel-
locos. by the Victorian Railways was
arranged during the year, but the co.
said there is a limit to the amount of
private credit that can be made available
for this purpose. Development of its
export business in locos, has also been
limited by the same problem, though the
co. was successful in securing several
overseas contracts last term against
strong competition. (Since the close of
accounts it has secured other Australian
orders too.)
Other export opportunities may
follow completion of plans later this year
to increase the locally-made content of
the Volkswagen (Martin and King
Industries). Production of the German
vehicles stepped up considerably in 1956.
On the merchandising side import-
restrictions had “some adverse effects,’
but by the merger of the two subdivisions,
Paul and Gray and Clyde Sales, “sub-
stantial” savings were made in operating
costs.
After setting aside an extra £32,505
(£219,225) for depreciation and £82,381
(£291,519) for taxation, consolidated net
earnings of parent and subsidiaries
increased £23,875 to a record £403,543:
Clyde Industries and Subsidiaries,
, Dividends — N
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.e. p.c. £ £
1951 .. 188,114 5 10 114,853 806,438
Added intangibles, £7275 .. .. 799,163
Unexplained reduction, £3886 .. 797,277
1952 .. 164,870 5 10 123,744 838,403
1953 .. 220,111 5 10 160,000 898.514
Added intangibles, £26,868 .. 871,646
Reserves capitalised, £260,000 .. 611,646
Unexplained additions, £1062 . . 632,708
1954 .. 337,417 5 TO 178,850 773,275
Reserves capitalised, £220,233 .. 551,062
Share premiums, £31,766 .. .. 582,82 s
Add reserve adjustments, £58.555.. 641,383
Add reduction intangibles, £3498.. 644,881
1955 .. 379,668 5 10 217,181 807,368
Less added intangibles, £ 4932 . . 802,436
1956 .. 403,543 5 10 228,192 977,787
* After deducting intangibles, £41,088 at
30/6/’5 6.
After allowing £30,000 for pref.-share-
holders, the balance of' the profit was
18.8 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 17.6
p.c. in 1955. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
There was some consolidation of the
financial position:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Old 1,670,545 1,981,918 1,981,918
Reserves .. .. 810,929 843,524 1,018,875
Outside interests ~ 6,450 107,200 107,200
Notes .. .. 800,000 800,000 1,000,000
Overdraft .. 109,550 103,511 136,493
Creditors, etc. .. 1,430,635 2,142,621 1,825,689
Final div. .. 83,850 99,096 99,096
£5,511,959 £6,677,870 £6,769,171
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,262,554 1,356,564 1,639,567
plant •• •• 1,086,780 1,342,885 1,216,925
Investments .. 139,521 25,000 33,112
Stocks .. .. 1,977,554 2,409,429 2,471,159
Debtors .. .. 890,993 1,493,027 1,347,409
<r ash > etc- .. 114,903 14,809 19,911
Intangibles .. 39,664 36,156 41,088
£5,511,959 £6,677,870 £6,769,171
Working-capital was £213,376 stronger at
£1,810,413, and the proportion of out-
side money employed in the business was
reduced from 48.7 p.c. of total funds to
46.8 p.c.
At 295. 6d. the f.-p. £1 ords. return
6.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The first
and second 5 p.c. cum. prefs. at 14s. 6d
and 14s. 3d. yield 6.9 p.c. and 7 p.c.
respectively.
Net tangible support is £ll 17s. 4d.
firsts, £lO 17s. 4d. seconds, and 295. lid.
ords.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
TIELATIVELY stable wool prices and
the protection given by import-
restrictions helped Lincoln Mills (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., to turn-in its second-largest
profit on record last term.
The 34-year-old Victorian spinning
and knitting co. ran into quite a lot of
trouble soon after formation, losing 80
p.c. of the ord. capital, but it has coped
with the difficulties of the last few years
with a far greater degree of success.
Despite fluctuating wool prices, keen —
if spasmodic—competition from imported
goods, and the wider use of synthetic
fibres, there have been two small increases
in the div.-rate since 1953.
The co. anticipates that it will handle
almost 15,000 bales of greasy wool in
the current term, the main Coburg (Mel-
bourne) mill, with support from branch-
mills in the neighboring Victorian towns
of Woodend, Kyneton and Gisborne,
producing a wide range of knitted outer-


wear and underwear. The manufacture
of full-fashioned nylon hosiery was begun
last term, but production was limited,
import-restrictions preventing delivery o£
some items of plant.
Holders of the 4s. ords. received a
one-for-one bonus in 1950, the scrip being
converted into f.-p. Bs. ords. In 1951
another one-for-one issue lifted ord.
capital to its present £487,548 total,
400,000 £l9 p.c. prefs. and £200,000 in
5 p.c. redeemable prefs. taking total
paid-capital to £1,087,548. The 5 p.c.
prefs., held by the Colonial Mutual Life
Society, are to be redeemed by not later
than June, 1960, and of the 350,000
originally issued, 150,000 have already
been redeemed.
Although the upward trend noted at
the end of the term has since continued,
wool prices were steady for most of the
year to September 30 last, and import-
restrictions limited competition from
overseas manufacturers. A small drop
in the average selling-price of yarn led to
a reduction in the value of turnover, but
a greater volume of goods was handled,
and the co. was able to report a sub-
stantial increase in trading profits, net
profit rising by £1.7,351 to £151,917. The
preceding term’s net earnings included
£50,000 from a price-fluctuation reserve,
so that the improvement in last term's
showing was actually £67,351, after a
much larger provision for taxation (up
£57,750 at £114,750) and an extra £6604
for depreciation (£59,095):
, Dividends— N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-.
June, Profit. 9 & 5 p.c. 3$ p.c. serves. serves.*
1952.. 78,537 53,500 15,236 9,501 407,807
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 402.897
Capital profits, £9151 .. .. 412,048
6ip.c.
1953.. 126,935 53,500 30,472 42,963 455,011
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 445,011
Capital profit, £1553 .. .. .. 446,564
8j p.c.
1954.. 170,705 51,417 40,629 78,659 525,223
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 515,223
Sept., 2 p.c.
1954|. 26,836 12,125 9,751 4,960 520,183
8* P-c.
1955.. 134,566 48,187 40,629 45,750 565,933
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ... 555,933
9 p.c.
1956.. 151,917 46,938 43,879 61,100 007,033
f Three months.
The £151,917 covered the pref. divs. and
21.5 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
17.7, 24.4, 15, 5 and 22.3 p.c. back to
1951. The ord. div. rate was raised from
8J p.c. to 9 p.c.
The degree to which variations in the
price of wool can affect the co. is
apparent from the balance-sheet, where
stocks (shown at not more than the lowest
of “cost-price, market-value or replace-
ment-cost”) accounted for over 60 p.c. of
the value of total assets:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,137,548 £1,112,548 £1,087,548
Reserves .. ~ 520,183 555,933 607,033
Overdraft .. .. 296,894 294,280 451,741
Creditors .. . . 161,178 138,910 255,9.01
Sundry provisions 60,000 10,000 10,000
Tax-provision .. 171,094 65,979 126,819
Final divs. .. 89,380 51,940 49,690
£ 2,436,277 £ 2,229,590 £ 2,588,732
Freeholds . . .. 118,172 128,252 129,124
Plant .. .. 340,294 410,950 464,228
Shares .. .. 2,248 2,248 2,248
Stock .. .. 1,598,546 1,337,532 1,566,954
Debtors .. .. 367,855 342,090 392,267
Cash .. .. 9,132 8,538 33,911
£2,436,277 £2,229,590 £2,588,732
As a counter to rising costs, new spinning,
dyeing and wool-preshrinking plant has
been installed and —import-restrictions
permitting—new plant will go into opera-
tion in the current term enabling further
economies to be effected. Last term’s
expenditure on fixed assets (mainly plant)
amounted to £104,830, depreciation
leaving the net addition to the accounts
£54,170. To help finance the heavier
stocks (up £229,422), capital-expenditure
and the repayment of £25,000 of pref.
capital the co. borrowed a further
£157,461 from the bank while, at the end
of the term, creditors were waiting for
an extra £116,991.
Prospects for the current term are
regarded as “encouraging” by the board,
and some sections of the plant are
“booked for months ahead,” although
credit-restrictions make the financing of
a higher output more difficult. The
result of the industry’s application to
the Tariff Board for increased protec-
tion hasn’t, as yet, been made public.
At balance-date there was a net
tangible backing of £3 14s. 9d. for the
9 p.c. prefs. and a shade under 18s.
supporting each f.-p. Bs. ord. The 9 p.c.
prefs. recently brought 225.' to return
8.1 p.c., but the market is treating the
ords. with caution, sales at and around
par being recorded on the Melbourne
and Sydney ’Changes.
B. J. Ball, Ltd.
ord. scrip of B. J. Ball, Ltd., has
firmed appreciably on Sydney Stock
Exchange since the £1 shares were split
into ss. units immediately after the co.
made its one-for-four- bonus issue to
shareholders in February.
Current price paid for the f.-p. ss. ords.
is 125., which gives the buyer a return of
6.3 p.c. on the basis of the well-covered
15 p.c. (including 5 p.c. bonus) div. paid
in the 1956 term. Interim div. for the
current term is unchanged at 5 p.c. The
gift scrip will participate fully. Price of
the scrip before the capital measures took
effect was 495. The £l5 p.c. prefs., which
don't carry any participating rights,
only bring 14s. The 7 p.c. prefs. are
tightly held.
The co. has developed along very
successful lines since it kicked-off in
Sydney nearly 51 years ago. Branches were
opened in Brisbane (1911), Melbourne
(1918), Auckland, N.Z. (1921) and
Adelaide and Perth (1937). A buying-
office was also established in London
(1922) to take care of import require-
ments. In 1926 the N.Z. interests were
sold, and the following year, the Brisbane
branch was converted into a separate
public co.
Its specialty is the distribution of high-
grade papers to the printing-and-
publishing industry. A profitable trade
has also been built-up in wrapping-
papers, twines and cordage, printing and
bookbinding machinery, and tennis and
other sports-nets, laundry-net bags, etc.,
which the co. makes at its own factory
at Manly Vale (Sydney). It also has a
share-interest in a local co. making the
printing-inks of John Kidd and Co.
(England).
In 1946 the co. took-over the Aus-
tralian business of account-book,
stationery and diary-manufacturers
Collins Bros., and with it the local
agencies for Waterman’s fountain-pens
and inks.
The public subscribed for £62,000 5
p.c. prefs. following the reconstruction
of capital in 1947, and since then
another £138,000 pref. scrip (including
100,000 7-per-centers) has been raised at
par and for cash together with an
equal amount of ordinaries on the same
terms. The bonus issue, the first of its
kind since 1947 and financed from sur-
pluses created by a revaluation of free-
hold properties, involved £50,000 ord.
scrip, which raised subscribed capital to
£450,000.
Import-controls, tightened-up last
April and now relaxed for certain items,
including printing-presses, meant a loss
of trade-opportunities last year, but
bigger quantities and varieties of paper
were turned out by Australian mills.
After setting aside an extra £3187
(£14,991) depreciation and £15,494 more
(£47,861) for taxation, profit was written
£8378 stronger at £69,056:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. , Ord. N serves. serves.
5 p.c.
£ £ £ £ £
Add subsidiary’s reserves, £129 .. 56,142
Private company taxation, £9778 .. 46,364
Writ en off goodwill, £5OO .. .. 45,864
1949.. 16.120 3479 10 p.c. = 7,175 5,466 51,330
Profit sale assets, £2050 .. .. 53,380
Less subsidiary’s reserves, £306 .. 53,074
Written off goodwill, £lOOO .. 52,074
1950.. 20.860 3750 20 p.c. =15,417 1,693 53,767
Profit sale assets, £125 .. .. 53,892
Written off intangibles, £4189 .. 49,703
1951.. 099 5000 12£ p.c. =12,500 33,599 83,302
Profit sale assets, £484 .. .. 83,786
Intangibles written off, £6856 .. 76,930
1952.. 5000 124 p.c. =12,500 70,543 147,473
Profit sale assets, £l4B .. .. 147,621
1953.. 288 5000 15 p.c. =15,000 31,288 178,909
Profit sale assets, £550 .. .. 179,459
To staff fund, £4000.. .. .. 175,459*
1954.. 5000 . 15 p.c. =15,000 34,303 209,762
Intangibles written off, £lOOO .. 208,762
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. 206,762
1955.. 678 s f ’< 0 15 p.c. =22,395 33,283 240,045
Assets revalued, £84,540 .. .. 324,555
5 & 7 p.c.
1956.-69,056 12,000 15 p.c. =28,895 28,161 352,746
Reserves capitalised, £oo,ooo .. 302,746
After deducting £12,000 for pref.-
shareholders, the remaining profit was
29.6 p.c. on average ordinary capital,
compared with 37.3 p.c. in 1955 and
49.3, 46.3, 83, 46.1, 22.2 and 17.6 p.c.
back to 1949. For the fourth term
running, ord. shareholders got 15 p.c. To
cover the prefs. and maintain 15 p.c.
on the fully-paid ordinary capital after
the bonus-issue would call for £49,500,
or £19,556 less than the profit for 1956.
Over the last two terms, to provide
extra warehouse accommodation, the co.
has bought or built new premises at
Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,]
financed partly on share capital and
partly on long-term loans:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956. |
Pref £lOO,OOO £200,000 £200,000^
Ord 106,000 181,509 194.986’
Reserves .. .. 209,762 240,045 352,740
Mortgage .. .. 22,000 91,000 108,108]
Overdraft .. 176,512 26,161 83,9911
Creditors .. .. 520,325 578,674 620,548
Staff fund .. 4,000 6,000 6,000
Tax provision 30,000 32,500 48,000
Final divs. .. 12,500 17,500 20,644
£1,175,099 £1,373,389 £1,635,0231
Land, buildings .. 96,911 113,700 264,595
Plant, etc. .. 72,083 . 87,120 120.66 J
Shares .. ... 6,823 6,823 6,8231
Stock .. .. 616,243 756,959 747,544
Debtors .. .. 362,485 407,989 494,447
Cash, etc... .. 20,554 798 951
£1,175,096 £1,373,389 £1,635,023
Last year’s increase in freeholds (up,
£150,895) included £84,540 due to the


AVIES A COLLISON, Patent Attor-
, 422 Colling Street, Melbourne, C.l.
ralian and Overseas Patents and
ie Marks. — Advt.
i/AftD
Os
*OTECTA
ntl-SiU RigliithZbo
TILL %
litable for every type of business it records
l Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
easing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
:KSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
butt Kg A grnti-
' IEY • W. C. Fenfold Si Co. Pty. Ltd.
BOURNE . . Norman Bros. Pty, Ltd.
LA,UE • • Vardon Price Ltd.
ru « • Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
A
uei naai
gssi
SB!
RT.
ran
ia
mb
£3t3 as
A FINANCIAL
BULWARK.
for thousands
of Australian
FOR ALL CLASSES
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
AND PERSONAL
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BWBO6I
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairman;
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H. Phillips, Esq.;
T. Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq.;
S. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Sc., F.F.A.
MAGNETIC ORE SEPARATOR
Manufactured by Rapid Magnetic Machines, Ltd., England,
for the recovery .of
Zircon Rutile, etc,, from
beach and other sands
and magnetic minerals.
Machines also for re-
moval of iron, etc., from
various products. Lift-
ing Magnets, Clutches,
Holding or Clamping
Magnets, Magnetic Floor
Sweepers, etc.
Send for Bulletin to
the Agents:
GUTHRIBGE PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.,
Manufacturers of Curvilinear Concentrating Tables, Water
Filters, Everlasting Steam Valves, etc.
valuation. Additions to plant,
~ cost a net £33,543 and book
bts were £86,458 heavier. Out-
e debt (mortgages, overdraft
i creditors) rose £116,812.
hen accounts were ruled-off
rrowed money employed in
; business amounted to 21s. 9d.
• every £ of shareholders’
ids. Working capital was
1,152 smaller at £463,759.
Vet tangible asset cover is now
:. Id. for the ss. ords. and
the first and second prefs.
10s. 6d. and £6 10s. 6d.
pectively.
C. Ludowici and Son, Ltd.
OW in its centenary term,
investors may wonder what
board has in mind to mark
i occasion. The chairman has
ted, however, that a bonus-
ie is not contemplated at
;sent and that the revaluation
land and buildings, which
'e rise to rumours of an
pending bonus, was primarily
;nded to give a more accurate
ture of the co.’s assets,
n the past, ord. shareholders
/en’t done too badly at all
of Ludowici’s. Average
idend over the last decade
> been 14.4 p.c., and, in 1950,
5,000 of reserves was capi-
ised to finance a one-for-four
le of bonus scrip. That, in
;ct, makes the nominal 15
. div. the ords. have received
ularly every year since then
th the exception of 1953, when
rate was lowered to 12 p.c.)
lal to 18| p.c. on the pre-
ius capital.
.ast term’s revaluation of
d and buildings disclosed a
healthy surplus of £192,795,
which, added to reserves, raised
the level of accumulations
£82,489 above the £225,000 paid
capital (pref. and ord.).
Competition in all lines last
term was “keen,” but sales were
held at approximately the same
level as for 1955. Improved
production methods and other
measures of economy notwith-
standing, costs made off with
more of the co.’s income, and
net profit claimed was £6233
smaller at £35,367. Depreciation
was £5463, up £1795, and tax
provision was £3OOO less at
£22,000:
Re-
Dec., Profit. { Dividends >, serves.
£ £ £
1946.. 11.589 17* p.c.*= 13,878 63,710
Share premiums, £4140 .. 67,850
1947. .11,589 12$ p.c. = 12,500 66,939
1948.. 19.478 15 „ ~15,000 71,417
1949.. 25.715 15 „ ~16,875 80,257
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 . 55,257
Pref. Ord. Total,
p.c. p.c.
1950. .25,312 5 15 20,000 60,569
1951.. 31,375 5 15 21,250 70,094
1952 .-.30,289 5&6 15 23,416 • 78,482
1953.. 21,106 5&6 12 20,500 79,088
1954.. 36,379 5&6 15 24,250 91,217
1955.. 41.610 5&6 15 24,250 108,577
Assets revalued, £192,795 .. 301,372
1956.. 35,367 5&6 15 24,250 312,489
To staff fund, £5OOO . . 307,489’
* Includes 5 p.c. bonus.
The £35,367 covered the pref.
divs. and was 23.9 p.c. on the
£125,000 ord. capital .compared
with a return in 1955 of 28.1
p.c. The good showing in that
year was partly due to the
inclusion of a special dividend
(not repeated in 1956) from
A. Flavell, Ltd., Melbourne,
manufacturers of oil- and grease-
seals, in which J. C. Ludowici
has a substantial share-interest
and for whom it acts as exclusive
Australian agent.
In its own factories in Sydney,
Ludowici makes belting, general
industrial and mechanical
leathers, Industrial-gloves, and
pulleys, drives, bearings, etc. To
complete the range of power-
transmission equipment it also
handles electric motors and
switchgear.
A number of additions to,
and replacements of, plant were
made during the year, and more
new plant is on order. Extensive
alterations were also made to
the Melbourne warehouse. Basis
of the valuation of land and
buildings was the Valuer-
General’s figure “in some
instances,” and current market-
value in' others. The directors
say they have taken a “realistic”
view in arriving at the new book-
values :
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Ord. .. 125,000 125,000 125,000
Pref. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Reserves .. 91,218 108,578 307,490
Mortgage .. 13,560 12,884 12,204
Overdraft .. 94,140 93,616 95,275
Creditors* . . 72,519 83,219 91,536
Staff fund .. 50,000
Pinal div... 11,675 9,800 9,800
£508,112 £533,097 £746,305
Freehold .. 119,109 119,892 319,011
Plant, etc... 46,008 56,151 73,175
Shares .. 23,898 24,878 24,378
Stock .. 193,086 195,034 189,992
Debtors, etc. 125,541 137,034 139,399
Cash .. 470 608 350
£508,112 £533,097 £746,305
* Includes provision for taxation.
More-or-less liquid surplus
(working capital) when the
accounts were ruled-off was
£128,130.
On ’Change the price of the
f.-p. £1 ords. has firmed since
the publication of results. At
455. the scrip gives an immediate
return of 6.7 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
div. basis. Net tangible cover
is first prefs. £lO 10s., seconds
£9 10s., and the ords. 695. 2d.
Australian Stock Breeders
nrWO factors have contributed
to the present decline of the
overseas market for Australian
meat. One has been the increased
home-production in the United
Kingdom, the chief destination
of our meat exports, and the
other has been the growing
competition offered by Argen-
tina, which has been felt not
only in the export-market for
beef but, within the last 15
months or so, in the market for


lB6B
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
o'suujvan
. jl jrjrtUa *
TRADE mark
iackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And nt Sydney, London, New York
I.EII EkPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSER 1
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDER 3
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
1 e egrams and Cables
“JACKSUL." BRISBANB
NEW FORD TEN
ENGINES
Radiators; Gearboxes, etc —Che
JEAN REVILLE
1127 Cavendish Road,
Mt. Gravatt, Brisbane
Phone: XY6273
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directorn: THOMAS A. MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Depvtl
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. 0. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director. P- BURDON, Manager.
’Phone: BW 8861. 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branchen in all Staten.
canned-meat, too. Primarily
engaged in the export-trade, the
Australian meat-canning industry
is said at present to be in a state
of crisis. The rest of the meat-
export industry has been pro-
tected from the full extent of the
fall in price-levels at Smithfield
by the terms of the 15-year
agreement with the U.K., which
began operating on July 1, 1952.
The agreement provides for
guaranteed minimum prices for
beef, lamb and mutton below
which the Australian exporter
receives a subsidy from the
U.K. Government. Without this
aid at present the position of
cattlemen, particularly in
Queensland, which accounts for
more than half of the Common-
wealth’s beef-cattle and a con-
siderably bigger proportion of
its beef and veal exports, would
be serious.
This is the opinion of the
chairman of Australian Stock
Breeders Co., Ltd., which owns
four big cattle-runs in the
northern State.
For the last couple of terms
the co. has been engaged on a
plan of water-improvement on
all its properties with the aim of
increasing carrying-capacity and
reducing stock-losses during dry
spells. Lately the seasons have
been favorable and . profits
responding well until last year,
when the smaller proceeds from
the sale of cattle (down about
£3 13s. 6d. a head), coupled with
a steep rise in running expenses
(mainly wages and the cost of
repairs and maintenance) resulted
in a contraction in net earnings
of £34,711:
f Dividends , Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.e. £ £
1949. .13,131 6.2 5.5 12,651 1,060
1950.. 15,"91 7 7 15,149 1,702
1951.. 14,115 6.2 5 12,108 3.709
1952.. 9,299 6.2 5 11,016 1,992
1953. .10,462 6.2 6 13,199 5,255
1954.. 23.555 6.2 6 13,199 15,611
1955.. 49,029 6.2 8 15,383 49,257
1956.. 14.318 6.2 6 13,199 50,376
Written after providing £7OBl
(up £2132) depreciation on lease-
holds and improvements, the
£14,318 covered the pref. div.
(£6649) and 7 p.c. on the ords.,
as against 38.8 p.c. in 1955 and
15.5, 9.4, 1.5, 6.8 and 8.4 p.c.
back to 1950. The div. was
reduced to 6 p.c. (down 2 p.c.).
To maintain the standard of
the co.’s stud, six more high-
quality bulls were bought during
the year. Because of a dry
period at the end of 1955,
brandings were smaller on the
Forest Home property.
At balance-date, using the
same basis as was employed for
the previous term, all livestock
were valued at £209,645 (up
£3964), which is considered to be
a conservative figure:
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref . . £107,249 £107,249 £107,249
Ord. .. 109,165 109,165 109,165
Reserves .. 15,611 49,257 50.376
Loan .. 60,000
Overdraft .. 61,141 53,924
Creditors, etc. 42,532 36,331 34,629
Final divs. 13.199 15,383 13,199
£287,756 £378,526 £428,542
Freehold and
leaseholds 57,686 112,373 152,478
Livestock .. 192,107 205,681 209,645
Stores .. 21,394 36,725 56,023
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 16,569 23.747 10,396
£287,756 £378,526 £428,542
Net value of improvements to
properties (freehold and lease-
hold) was £40,105, and stores
increased £19,298. To cover the
cost of the additions and a
reduction of £7217 in the bank
overdraft the co. raised a
£60,000 loan.
On ’Change the 10s. ords. are
at 9s. 6d. (as against par a year
ago and Bs. 6d. the year before
that) to return 6.3 p.c. on the
basis of a 6 p.c. div. Still
subject to the 1932 Queensland
Mortgagers’ Relief Act which
reduces the nominal 8 p.c. div.
to 6 p.c. the £1 prefs. rarely
appear in the sharemarket. Net
asset cover is for the prefs.
495. 9d., and for the ords. 14s. Bd.
Sulphuric Acid Bounty
TTHE Federal Government is
renewing its efforts to
encourage the manufacture
of sulphuric acid from
locally - produced raw
material. The Tariff Board has
been requested to suggest an
appropriate bounty to be paid
on sulphuric acid derived from
indigenous materials rather than
imported brimstone. Australian
imports of brimstone cost the
country s o m e t h i ng like
$6,000,000 a year.
The Consolidated Zinc project
at Newcastle (N.S.W.), and
expansion by other producers,
will greatly increase the output
of sulphuric acid over the next
few years, and the Government
move is no doubt intended to
influence producers in their
choice of new plant. Most of the
plant in use at present would
require modification to permit
the use of locally-mined pyrites.
Both Mt. Morgan, Ltd., and
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.,
have surplus pyrites available.
Mt. Morgan reported last term
that its 55,450-ton output of
pyrites was “almost unsaleable,”
while Norseman directors
claimed that “substantial” price-
reductions would be possible if
large-scale production were
undertaken. The Norseman
plant has been working at only
one-third capacity.
Titanium Minerals, Ltd.
TDARNINGS in the six months
to December 31 last covered
the £13,138 loss accumulated by
Titanium Minerals, Ltd., and
enabled payment of the co.’s
maiden div.—a 10 p.c. distribu-
tion made last month.
Titanium Minerals was
formed (as Woodburn Minerals,
Ltd.) in 1952 and is engaged in
beach-mining, mainly for rutile,
at Jerusalem Creek, near Wood-
burn, on the north coast of
N.S.W. Early difficulties caused
the suspension of operations in
August, 1953, but production
was recommenced in May, ’56,
Metal Traders, Ltd., of London
providing finance and taking-up
120,000 ss. shares.
Output for the half-year to
last December, 902 tons of rutile,
was sold at “satisfactory” prices
and production, currently around
50 tons per week, will be
doubled when a new separation
plant goes into service in th
near future. According to th
directors, the use of this ne
plant will result in lower opera
ing costs, which, with increase
output, is expected to counter tl
effects of the fall in rutile price
Hie co. has persevered wit
its rutile property following fals
hopes raised by misleading assa]
in respect of tin values which f<
a while caused the market
value it as an outstanding t
prospect.
Tin and Strategic Minerals
SHAREHOLDERS in Tin ai
Strategic Minerals, Ltd., ha
accepted the offer to purcha
the co.’s mining assets made l
South West Tin Pty. (B. 6/3/’5
The purchase-price is £lOO,OO
payable over the next three yea
Tin and strategic Mmer;
taking-out a debenture over t
new co.’s assets as security. Pri
to the final payment the vendc
co. may elect to buy a quarter
South West Tin’s paid capital f
£30,000.
Commcrawea'th Mining
Investments
PRACTICALLY all of t
£1,000,000 capital of Coi
monwealth Mining Investmen
Ltd., is now invested in “wort
while projects,” according to
interim report from the directc
of the co., and an increase
capital is contemplated.
Commonwealth Mining b
the bulk of its investments
well-established gold, lead-zi
and copper cos., but is a
interested in titanium-, tin- a
tungsten-mining, and recen
subscribed for 20,000 ss. sha;
in Timor Oil, Ltd. At Deceml
31 last the market value
investments was 19 p.c. abo
cost.
The directors consider th
the first div. from the co. m
follow the close of the financ
year (June 30).


Jkuifi In Ihc
In this country, set as we are on the realisation
of so many of our hopes, numerous works and
services have strong claims for prior treatment.
But nothing, I believe, is more urgent in our
programme of expansion than the building of roads.
They are basic to Development and Defence.
Australia has more than 520,000 miles of road
of some description—half of them in the large and
deeply settled States of Queensland and New
South Wales.
And 70 per cent, of the nation’s roads are
dirt-surfaced; some of them cleared and formed to
varying degrees, others untouched tracks.
Of the one-quarter to one-third of the road
lengths of this continent that has been constructed,
only a small proportion has been sealed with
bitumen or concrete; the rest is under macadam or
gravel.
Now. these figures relate only to distance. They
take no account of wear or damage to roads already
built, or to the need for widening them to carry an
increasing traffic.
That is the plain situation, and it intensifies
with every delay in rising to a national policy to
meet it.
Finance, of course, is the hurdle. According
to one estimate an 18,000-miles system of Inter-
State and Defence highways to connect the more
populous and productive areas of the Common-
wealth would require £350-million, spread over 15
years.
That may seem a large sum, but alongside
the value of Australia’s annual productive wealth
it is no more than a modest investment in the
Future.
Sooner or later the money—perhaps more, to
provide us with a really adequate road system—
will have to be found.
The first and most immediate essential now,
is to get down to some common understanding in
a bold, embracing policy, and to push on with an
integrated roads system that will enable us to
move and prosper.
This swift, efficient age demands more from
Australia than narrow lanes and dirt tracks.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
the evidence of ordinary-
share prices, usually a
sensitive and accurate indicator,
public confidence in New
Zealand’s immediate economic
future is running at a high level.
The 1957 market opened
buoyantly and has remained
strong since, in spite of income-
tax payments and heavy calls
for capital by four big Aus-
tralian companies, in which
New Zealanders are substantial
shareholders.
Most important “bull”
influence in the market is
undoubtedly the continuation
of high wool prices.
Second-highest Wool Price
It is expected that the average
price for the season will be
about 54d. per lb. —the highest
ever recorded except in the
Korean-war boom of 1950-51.
With estimated production
3.1 per cent, up at 472 million
pounds, total wool receipts for
the season are likely to rise to
£lO6 million, from £BB million
last season.
As the estimated gain of £lB
million is equivalent to 20 per
cent., and receipts for the first
four months of the season have
shown a gain of only 7.3 per
cent., wool can be expected to
have an increasingly beneficial
impact on N.Z.’s net overseas
assets in the months ahead.
That, however, should cause
relief rather than any special
jubilation. It looks as if any
help that wool can give will
be needed.
As Finance Minister Watts
has pointed out, overseas
assets are still too low. (At
March 6 they were £B5
million —only £3 million more
than a year before, in spite of
the credit-squeeze). And
forward prospects for the sale
of produce other than wool
continue to cause worry.
Mr. Watts has estimated that
total earnings of overseas
exchange during the current
year will be £5 million to
£lO million less than last year’s
£324.3 million.
Overseas exchange transac-
tions for February produced a
surplus of only £8.9 million,
£2.6 million less than the
surplus in February last year.
The recent steep decline in
butter prices showed up much
more plainly than in any
previous month. Butter brought
in only £2.8 million, £1.7
million less than in February
(t ilast year. Meat receipts were
also down —by £3.1 million to
;«|£7 million.
Optimism—and Caution
It is clear that any optimism
engendered by high wool prices
should be tempered \vith
caution on other counts.
The Government has not yet
won its fight against inflation.
Mr. Watts has admitted that
there is a tendency for some
retail prices to rise and a
tendency for notified vacancies
in industry to increase again.
A large part of the blame for
continued inflation must be
accepted by the Government
for failing to curtail its own
extravagant spending. It is
significant that, while the
trading banks’ advances to the
private sector are well down,
Government borrowing from
the Reserve Bank is higher.
When Mr. Watts presented
his Budget last August he
increased taxation to bring in
an estimated record £251.8
million from all sources,
including roads tax (£18.6
million). He proposed increas-
ing Consolidated Fund spend-
ing by £7 million, Social
Security spending by £2.6
million and capital works
spending by £4.3 million, but
estimated for surpluses of £3.7
million in the Consolidated
Fund and £l.l million in the
Social Security** Fund, which,
he said, would have “a very
desirable disinflationary effect.”
A few weeks ago he
announced that spending from
the public accounts was £16.3
million up for the first nine
months of the financial year.
And now he has followed that
up with the not-surprising state-
ment that the public accounts
are likely to show a “small
deficit” for the year.
The “very desirable disinfla-
tionary surplus,” which alone
could have justified a £3.5
million increase in income tax,
has disappeared, was suggested
here last August that it might
easily do.
And that may not be the
whole story. Mr. Watts's “small
deficit” may refer to the Con-
solidated Fund and the Social
Security Fund only. Last year
they showed a combined
surplus of £5.3 million, but,
even then, there was an over-
all cash deficit of £ll million
in the public account as a
whole.
It is to be hoped that Mr.
Watts’s “small deficit” does not
turn out to be quite a big
deficit.
N.Z. Forest Products
Voting at N.Z. Forest
Products’ special meeting on
(Continued on page 65)


A MISTAKE AND A MISCORRECTION
Taking the "Local" Out of "Local-Government"
'T'UESDAY, March 12, 1957, should
go down in history as the day on
which the Cahill Government passed a
democratic bill—by accident. The
occurrence was all the more remarkable
because the bill was a private measure,
introduced by a member of the Opposi-
tion. Moreover, it had the effect of
restoring to the people of N.S.W. some-
thing the Cahills had taken away from
them several years earlier.
Viewed in isolation, the action of the
Government could have been taken as
an admission of a previous mistake and
a magnanimous attempt to remedy it;
even as an example of enlightened
statesmanship. In reality, it was nothing
more than a case of mass aberration.
The Labor sheep, so long accustomed to
bleating “Aye” to every motion put,
automatically voted for the bill, for-
getting for the moment that it had been
introduced by the Opposition and there-
fore couldn’t possibly have any merit —
or, at any rate, could not be accepted
by them. A moment later they were
in the position of the oft-quoted English
peer who dreamed he was making a
speech in the House of Lords and woke
up to find he was. Their predicament
was really worse than the old boy’s. All
he had to do was sit down; they couldn’t
even stand up and correct their mistake.
The episode which led to the Cahill
Government’s embarrassing slip began
last August, when Davis Hughes,
Country-party M.L.A. for Armidale,
introduced a motion urging a conference
of “Federal, State and local-government
representatives” for the purpose of estab-
lishing a firm basis “for the allocation
of taxation and loan-moneys as between
the three tiers of Government.” Secondly,
he advocated a committee to investigate
local-government finance, particularly
with reference to giving local-government
a direct allocation from taxation-
reimbursement funds and to consider a
superannuation scheme for local-govern-
ment employees. Finally he proposed
that
in order to expand and preserve the
ideals of local government, no amal-
gamation of areas be carried out unless
and until the ratepayers in the areas
concerned have first signified their
approval by referendum.
It is seldom a private member’s motion
gets very far in the N. S. Wales Parlia-
ment, but Hughes was permitted to
deliver his speech without more than a
couple of dozen interjections by Local
Government Minister Renshaw.
The Minister’s opposition was not
surprising ; it was quite consistent with
the Cahill Government’s attitude towards
iocal-government. The Bulletin has on
numerous occasions in the past decade
shown that it is the deliberate policy of
Labor to take the “local” out of local-
government and to concentrate more and
more power in the central authority.
When Labor came into office in
N. S. Wales in 1941 one big obstacle
in the way of this policy was a clause
in the Local Government Act requiring
the holding of a referendum before any
amalgamations of local-government areas
could take place. In 1945, when Premier
Cahill was Minister for Local Govern-
ment, the clause was manipulated out of
the Act and the way was clear for the
Labor Government to go ahead and
redraw the boundaries of shires and
municipalities without the troublesome
bother of consulting those most affected
by the changes.
the “reforms” that followed, the
most important was the massacre of
municipalities in the County of Cumber-
land, in the course of which 67 local
bodies were reduced to 39. The most
serious effect of this was the placing of
Sydney City Council under the perman-
ent control of the Trades Hall. This
was achieved by abolishing several old-
established inner-suburban councils with
solid Labor electorates and absorbing
them into Greater Sydney.
Mr. Hughes’s motion was on the
notice-paper for a long time. He intro-
duced it on August 28, and it was debated
for a couple of hours before “Govern-
ment business” caused it to be pushed
aside. Mr. Renshaw reopened the dis-
cussion on October 2 when he proposed
an amendment providing that the Loan
Council “be urgently requested to
increase loan-allocations to local-govern-
ment by 50 per cent.” and that the
Federal Treasurer should issue a direc-
tive for the release of greater funds.
Objections that this negatived the
original motion, which had merely called
for a conference, were overruled by the
Acting Speaker, and several members
spoke on the motion, which was, how-
ever, again thrust aside by “Government
business.” This time it lay on the shelf
for five months, to be brought up again
on March 5 and 12. On the last occasion
the was reached. First, on
an amendment to Mr. Renshaw’s amend-
ment. Carried. Then on the amendment
as amended. Carried. Then on the
motion as amended. Carried. It was
only then that someone on the Govern-
ment side realised that his party’s
acquiescent bleats had been a blunder.
Too late! The wheels of Parliamentary
procedure rolled on to the next business,
with the Hughes motion standing as the
will of the House.
It was not, of course, the will of the
Government, and after going around with
a red face for a fortnight the Minister
last week moved a rescission motion and
secured the necessary number of bleats
to carry it. Presumably the House will
hear no more of Mr. Hughes’s motion,
amended or otherwise. This is a pity,
because, apart from the referendum pro-
vision which never really had a dog’s
chance of being passed—except by
accident —the motion raised hopes that
there might be a reviewal of the whole
basis of financing local-government.
The essential point is that while the
nature of local-government has changed
considerably, especially in New South
Wales, the method of financing it has
remained the same. When the functions
of municipal bodies consisted mainly of
maintaining roads and footpaths, collect-
ing and disposing of garbage, and pro-
viding for the upkeep of parks and
gardens it was reasonable that the cost
should be borne by the property-owners
of the district. They paid their rates and
in return received the benefit of the
services provided by the council.
Indirectly they also gained from any
increase in property-values resulting
from good municipal management. The
ratepayers elected the councillors and
aldermen who fixed the rates, so that in
the long-run the ratepayers got the sort
of council and the sort of service they
deserved.
The picture today is very different.
Local authorities may conduct or subsi-
dise free libraries, baby-clinics, kinder-
gartens, day-nurseries, swimming-pools,
markets and a host of other activities.
Sydney City Council owns hotels,
shops, picture-theatres, parking-stations,
blocks of flats and tenement houses.
Some of these properties are profitable ;
many are merely a burden on the rate-
payers. Under the Cahill-Renshaw
regime a new brand of custodian is in
control of many local-governing authori-
ties—a custodian with power to spend
but no responsibility to pay. The Sydney
City Council, for example, draws most
of its revenue from city business-houses,
which have no say at all in the spending
of the money. Council-meetings are little
more than a formality, as all decisions are
cut-and-dried, having been made in the
Labor caucus before the opening of the
meeting.
TTNIVERSAL suffrage for council elec-
tions may be democratic, but power
should carry .with it some responsibility.
In Federal and State elections voters are
also taxpayers ; in council elections only
a minority of voters are ratepayers. In
effect, what the Cahills have said to the
ratepayers is this: “Your old system had
some good points and some bad ones.
Your method of raising revenue was
excellent. We’ll stick to it. Your ideas
of spending it weren’t so good. We’ll use
our own. Let’s split fifty-fifty between
your plan and ours. You supply the
money, as before, and we’ll supply the
men to spend it.”
As spenders Labor politicians have few
peers, but sooner or later they always
seem to reach the stage of not having
enough to spend and not knowing where
to turn for more.
Local-government authorities in New
South Wales are in desperate straits. They
cannot ask much more of their rate-
payers, and their share of loan-funds is
very small. The time is overdue for a new
deal. If councils are to keep on provid-
ing amenities which should be the
responsibility of the whole community,
then the whole community should con-
tribute to the cost. Ratepayers have
footed the bill long enough.


A.P.M. USES ‘TAGGED ATOMS” TO MAKE PAPER No. 7 of a series.
-
i H
k
m
-. s a
■ m
A
m
:v-
-m
m
' 'Jk '
■
ess
5 's
l ***#*■**
S'’": ,
m
mWm
MIM
v*. ; ?i
iv":
Beta-rays
better paper,
i i
“Tagged atoms,” known technically as radio-
isotopes, are proving of great vaLue in the
pulp and paper industry, and A.P.M. Aust-
ralian Paper Manufacturers Limited is using
them in a number of ways.
An important technique in the industry, now
to be employed in A.P.M.’s Mills, is the use
of beta-ray gauges (seen above) which con-
tinually measure the substance of paper as it
comes through the machines. This enables ad-
justments to be made to maintain consistently
high quality paper.
A.P.M. also uses radio-active mercury in
periodic tests of its chlorine plant at Maryvale
Pulp Mill in Gippsland, Victoria, and applies
the “Tracer” technique in a number of other
ways.
These scientific “Atomic Age” applications are
examples of the constant drive in A.P.M.
Australia’s largest manufacturers of paper and
paperboards* for maintaining and improv-
ing the quality of its products.
* The term “paperboard” embraces cardboard,
fibreboard and other heavyweight papers.
Basically the same raw materials are used for
paperboard and paper.
ApM
Buy Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne.
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria;
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.


Revenge
By HAL PORTER
THE woman expanded,
velvety, a dahlia —and
the boy unexpanded,
formal, a cold bud —
each with a reserved seat, were
the only two in that compart-
ment of the country train.
He knew who she was.
She had not the faintest idea,
my love, who the little brat
could possibly be.
When she had dramatically
and vividly slid open the door
from the carriage-corridor,
there he disappointingly was.
Outside —the organised hurly-
burly of the city station,
beyond that the boiling and
ranting city itself. Inside —the
spotles waxwork boy already
set square in his place, rug
over knees, school-cap pulled
straight—dead - straight—above
his horn-rimmed spectacles.
He flicked one nonchalant
but accurate glance at her
fiung-open fur coat, the dress
that was a fluid screen of huge
poppies, the operatic spray of
boronia and violets, the rich
maquillage. That one glance
placed her. He went on read-
ing.
She had scarcely arranged
herself like a great vase of
flowers gusting out midsummer
scent, before the train started
feverishly hurried, flew
away from the city.
In an hour, the sooty
girders, the clay cuttings toga-
ed with mesembrianthemum
and armed with agave and
yuccas, the hoardings decoy-
ing with Brobdingnagian
bottles of invalid-port and
miraculous soaps, the
suburban stations of salmon-
brick and Edwardian tiles,
were all well behind. Behind
too, presently, were the out-
rider housing-schemes with
their mustard-yellow doors,
veranda-less and treeless and
uneasy. Now they were in the
country, the houses had
verandas, vines and barge-
boards; it was five o’clock;
long shadows stretched from
old pines across the old green
Gippsland paddocks from
which stared the clown-white
faces of Noah’s Ark Here-
fords.
TOURING this hour the boy
had not moved except to
turn the pages of his book
in an old-fashioned way,
finickally but lightly, as
though they were not weighted
with ardors, lusts, despairs
and anguishes ; as though his
spotless fingers and steady eyes
were not in contact with dis-
tracted and venal lives, as
though he were reading The
Boer and his Horse or Grace
Darling.
But he knew what he was
reading. It passed inexorably
through the mincer of his mind,
gently, unfalteringly. No
gristle of bestial behavior dis-
concerted that calm machine.
While thus reading and
mincing he had even, also,
swiftly filed what he knew
about her: One: on holiday
from boarding school, he had
seen her in The Mikado at the
Mechanics’ Institute Hall:
the scenery had wavered, rain
on the corrugated-iron roof
had obscured professional
Nature outdoing amateur
artifice —much of the perfor-
mance, but not the Vicar’s too-
strenuous Nanki-Poo nor her
too - fruity and voluptuous
Yum-Yum. Two: he had
heard her in the greengrocer’s
ringingly vilifying. It was
something about tomatoes.
“I* am just not used to this sort
of treatment,” she had
declaimed under the fly-
specked witch-balls. Three:
he had seen her several times
in her small crimson car, lean-
ing from it, always yackata-
yackata-yackata.
One, Two, Three —filed!
He realised that she was
striking and conspicuous, and
that he had never seen her at
any of his mother’s cocktail-
parties. To him, that was all.
That was not all to her.
CHE was stuffed with loose
affections, brimming with
sentimental foolishness, loved
talking on and on, imagined
that children found her
charming.
The first time he raised his
head from his book, she was
ready ; hurled \her smile like
a hoopla-ring; cigarette-smoke
flowed across her gold-shot
teeth ; with exaggerated
graciousness, in the scented
and fluting voice she used for
men, she said:
“How far are you travel-
ling?”
Was he staring at her? She
could not tell, for the near-
setting sun had struck his spec-
tacles to discs of glaring brass
like the lit lense-eyes of a
robot. Silence for a while,
then, slowly, meticulously,
frigidly, he uttered an
unnecessarily - complete and
chiselled sentence:
“I am travelling from the
city right through to the ter-
min-us.”
“Ah! ” she said, and she
executed a pink, kindly and
silly laugh. “Right through,
eh? To the terminus, eh?”
He made no reply. She
could not see his eyes. His
face was marble.
“That’s a long journey,”
she said. She poured more
syrup: “That’s a long, long
journey for a little boy, isn’t
it, now?”
The brass disks flared
unmovingly in her direction ;
the face remained immobile,
but some subsurface flinch,
some tic perhaps of the skull
itself, some electric sensory
twitch, told her that she had
overmelodiously sung the
wrong bar.
“I am thirteen years and two
months old,” said a clipped
voice. “I am small for my
age.”
Then, with princelike
patience, as though she would
not understand, but he must
get everything absolutely
straight, with a vein of dis-
taste and weariness which
suggested that this had had
to happen before: “However,
heredity will rectify that. At
thirteen, my father was very
like me. He is now over six
feet tall, and weighed one-
hundred - and - ninety - four
pounds last holidays. Time
will tell.”
The point of a red tongue
delicately moistened his lips.
“As well, I do not find the
journey long. I generally make
it about six times a year, and
this is my fifth year as a
boarder. I like reading in
trains.”
Finished.
TTE lowered his head; the
brassy light slid from h:'
spectacles; his eyelids
dropped; he was reading.
Piqued at his finality after an
explanation frosted with repri-
mand, her screen of poppies'
stirring and smouldering
fretfully, she could not
restrain:
“What are you reading?”
“Boule de Suif,” he said
curtly, not raising his eyes.
“By Guy de Maupassant.”
His French accent was fault-
less but she had no idea what
he was saying—Barbara Cart-
land was her literary Everest.
Silence.
A little later, still without
looking up, for he had seen
already her gaudy bookstall-
magazines, noblesse oblige , he
explained: “De Maupassant is
a French author. Nineteenth
century.”
Now he lifted his eyes to her.
They were unflickering, unequi-j
vocal, contemptuous:
“His themes are realistic and
awesome. This volume is
a translation. Naturally,
because” He paused. He
made a point—“because I am
only thirteen.”
The intention of his last
words, a rebuke more oblique
than she could understand, but
an indubitable rebuke madei
her flush: she locked the gold!


“His voice said, ‘Forgive me if I go on reading. I am engrossed.’”
of her teeth behind her painted
lips, she puffed sharply at her
cigarette ; as his eyes went back
to the book, she flashed, “You
apparently like school more
than ordinary boys.”
When, after another delay,
he revealed his eyes they
assessed her as though she were
an idiot: she felt icy vermin
race in the silken stalks of her
sheaf of flesh; her scent
cheapened ; her dress-poppies
rusted; her fur-coat, she
remembered, was torn at the
armpit. Thank God, she
thought stupidly, I have on my
new undies.
Implacably his wry voice
decried her: “I enjoy certain
aspects of school and certain
subjects. The Head is awe-
some. The food is vile,
although Heppingstone
secundus abides it. Maybe I
am finicky. Heppingstone is
mon ami and, at the moment,
we both hero-worship the
tennis-coach. We are passing
through an unhealthy phase,
but Heppingstone says we’ll
outgrow it. I think Matron
told him that. Matron is not
awesome ; she is unbearable.”
His manner said All women
are unbearable and You are
unbearable and Is that all, for
G od’s sake ?
His voice said, “Forgive me
if I go on reading. I am
engrossed.”
He read, and the train
screamed in . . . approval?
surprise? frustration? horror?
The woman’s face was
shocked to poppy-color. She
butted her cigarette, screwing
it to destruction, noticing that
it was only half-smoked. She
lit another, began petulantly
to read her twopenny-colored
lies, and the train flung itself
olympically through sunset and
twilight into night, deeper and
deeper into the country, while
the obtuse and petal-shedding
woman skimmed warmly a
world of sick charm, and he,
the acute and sheathed-in,
coolly trod among provincial
pettiness, rivalry and lust.
MOW and again, clashing like
a chain-gang and windily
yawning, the train stopped at
small stations ; each time it did
so its loneliness, unhomeliness
and difference from the fixed
and natural became more
marked: out there and out
there, dark thrilling voices
ascended to the stars and
seemed to call “Home! ” or
“Love!” or “Life!”
In the distance were tea-
time lights in windows —she
imagined table-chatter, a sing-
ing kettle, a cat asleep by the
stove, a wireless playing “Ah,
sweet mystery of life” ... In
this compartment there was
nothing to sustain her, no one
to charm, to exchange gossip
or magazines with, no one for
whom to unroll the velveteen
bale of her femininity.
Just as the train bared its
flaring breast to the disregard-
ing air, so she must, as it were,
uselessly bare hers to neuter
immaturity, the sliding-door
meantime squeaking like mice
and trembling as though desire
tenderly but earnestly tried it.
From another part of the train
she could hear Italians singing
with fervent drunkenness ; she
jetted smoke from her nostrils,
and felt like slapping the cap
from the controlled head
opposite—little pipsqueak, she
thought, stuck-up little cissy.
The train began to chant
more slowly and throatily ; its
ecstatic flight across the plain
was ended; it was climbing the
foothills.
The boy closed his book,
folded back the rug, stood,
put the book in the rack.
Noticing his tender grooved
nape, her dislike faltered ;
faltered more when he took off
hi? spectacles and snapped
them into their case. How
much less canny and excluding
he now appeared. He—the
stern unblinking mildly
blinked, pressed thumb and
forefinger upon, his lids, rolled
his eyes, blinked more rapidly ;
finally, removed his cap and
put it also on the rack. Curls!
He had curls!
Amazingly, he blinked in her
direction, spoke, addressed
her!
He said, “Please excuse me
if I lie down. I always
slumber when the train reaches
the Haunted Hills. Not that I
believe what they say. Nor
Ileppingstone. But it’s awe-
some, so I snatch a little
slumber.”
The woman said nothing, but
she smiled ; the dots of gold
in her teeth were like the dots
of gold in her brainless,
expansive nature.
Decorously, thus blessed, he
folded his compactness and
certainty, eyes, nape and curls
into his rug and stretched out,
face covered, as the train
labored into the Haunted Hills.
For seventy years, tales had
been handed on that no bird
sang in these hills, that cattle
would not stay there after
sunset ; there were legends of
unfindable caves and spectre-
bushrangers. As the train
fagged among them, no loriger
exulting and fanning wings of
fire and loveliness on the night,
the hills despaired, moaned,
reverberated; the train now
and then shouted out passion-
ately. The boy breathed deeply
towards sleep.
AND presently the lover
* with whom the woman had
spent several clandestine city
hotel-nights peered through the
transom-window, saw her
lonely in her fleshy, flowery
haze of beauty, slid open the
door, closed it, came to her.
“Darling!”
Through a long and founder-
ing kiss the known bodies
ratified past fulfilment,
recommended future experi-
ences. Then the man, lifting
his mouth, indicated and
questioned about the rug-
parcelled body with his eye-
brows.
Unmaliciously, simply,
carelessly, the woman whis-
pered, “Only a kid. Asleep.
A little cissy,” and blindly
surrendered herself
sheaf of fragrant blossoms,
curved sappy petals, an armful
of breathing summer. Ah . . .!
The drunken Italians were
singing “Santa Lucia,” one
tenor voice egotistically yearn-
ing and yearning above the
others.
Asleep?
No.
The opening and closing
door had roused the boy from
half-asleep to fully-awake.
Unable to see, he had heard
everything—through the train’s
drudging in the echoing hills,
through the external echoes
and the inner complaints of
flesh in tweed enclosing flesh
in fur and flowers, he had
heard the silence of the kiss.
Next he heard. “Only a
kid. Asleep. A little cissy.' 1
Rage shocked him, poisoned
{Continued on page 56)


Low's
Autobiography
War-time, and feelings running a little high, as in a letter to
David Low from Aldous Huxley . . . Letters, too, from
Margot Asquith . . . And, among others, what Low calls his
“bitterest cartoon.”
22
(< Continued)
HE dictators were
pursuing a deliberate
policy of wearing out
opposition and they
saw to it that the
atmosphere of crisis
continued on the
3oil. Peace or war, war or
-icace, was the subject littering
ill the channels of communica-
:ion.
Our semi-Nazi extremists of
:he Right were disposed to
roncession and co-operation ;
and the Labor party was led by
□eorge Lansbury.
The dear old chap was that
'are thing, a Christian in
politics, and under his guidance
the Labor party’s policy on
armaments had become far
from clear or consistent.
I did not get a chance of
private conversation with old
George when he returned from
Germany in 1937, after going
to see if Hitler was as black as
be was painted, but I was one
of a handful of friends to
whom he gave his impressions.
It was easy to see what had
happened. To say they had
pulled the wool over his eyes
would have been an under-
statement. Rather the whole
sheep.
“The trouble about old
George is that he’s so good
he’ll have us all in Heaven
before our time,” said a
plaintive M.P.
Some of my writing friends,
I found, were writing books
for peace because war v/as
horrible. They did not say how
this peace was to be secured.
It was sure that if we made
war there would not be peace ;
and if we surrendered in
advance it would be highly
improbable that British youth
would escape military servi-
tude to the conqueror.
Winnie the Pooh was left in
the cloakroom while I talked
over a lamb-chop with A. A.
Milne, a well-disposed man
earnestly wishing for peace,
about whether we could do yet
another book—a joint affair—
on how to stop the drift to war.
But when we got down to brass
tacks it was distressingly
evident that the initiative for
peace lay with the dictators,
not with the democracies.
A NOTE of exasperation
crept into friendly discus-
sion as the Spanish Civil War
got under way and the outlook
grew blacker.
I lost some friends and
aroused the wrath of the lamb
with a couple of fairly mild
cartoons. Too often my break-
last would be ruined by the
arrival of some letter, like this
one, referring to a cartoon
about three 100-per-cent,
pacifists affirming “We won’t
fight anybody” to two butchers
of the weak and destroyers of
the peace, who comment
“Anybody includes us, pal”:
Dear Low,
Three pacifists versus two
butchers certainly provide a comic
spectacle. But will you please in a
future cartoon portray the alterna-
tive —i.e., three butchers with
longer knives against two butchers.
And in yet a third cartoon will
you draw the result of the con-
flict between the three butchers
(anti-Fascist collective security)
and the two butchers (Fascist
States). True, these results have
already been set down by Callot
and Goya; but these artists- had
the misfortune to live before the
age of mustard-gas and bombers
—so there is stiff plenty of scope
for you.
Yours very sincerely,
ALDOUS HOXLEY.
A FTER the taking of Aus-
tria, life became more
strained. The luncheon-
parties of perturbed anti-
fascists that were a feature of
the early ’thirties (it seemed
that in England nobody could
discuss the End of the World
except over food) increased in
fiequency and were supple-
mented by anxious drawings-
together of like-minded writers,
politicians and others con-
cerned with public affairs,
exchanging doubts and fears,
uncertainties and determina-
tions, brushing the dust off
principles, stocktaking the ideas
of a lifetime to see if they could
possibly be mistaken or if
there were any sound argu-
ment overlooked that could
absolve an honest mind from
coming to unpalatable con-
clusions.
During these fateful years
my own political position was
no bed of roses.
After 1936-37, when Hitler
reoccupred the Rhineland and
showed plainly his intentions,
I was for additional increase of
national armaments, and after
Czechoslovakia in 1933 I
rampaged for full rearmament
and close association with
Russia. The only other country
that had the manpower to offset
Germany, the United States,
was deep in isolation and pass-
ing laws to forestall another
entanglement in European
wars.
Conventional enough as all
that might seem, there was
sufficient contentious matter in
it to provide constant friction.
There were the backward
thinkers of the Left who were
moved by the very mention of
aims to the most warlike
anonymous letters ; and there
were always our Fascist
admirers of Mussolini and
Hitler, to say nothing of those
who (latterly) excused Franco
on religious grounds.
The telephone rang all day
and my correspondence grew
violent. New elements intro-
duced themselves —packets of
filth, and threats. Signs of my
growing political importance,
no doubt. Gladstone said:
“Never reply.” I once heard
Margaret Bondfield say that
the hardest thing she knew was
to sit silent when someone was
traducing her.
When there was anything
substantial in the letters, 1
wrote answers to them. But
I posted my replies, not at the
post-office but in a bottom
drawer.


STANLEY BALDWIN,
visibly aged by his arduous
efforts as king-maker and
pacificator, had finally retired
the country with an earldom
and a mild persecution mania.
Neville Chamberlain took
over.
Fleet-street knew Mr. C. to
be an honest man, well-
intentioned, not a brilliant
statesman, who had been
developing fixed ideas that he
had the answer to the dictator
problem and that he was the
man to carry it through.
His recipe for improving
things was friendly understand-
ing, appeasement. The scene
began to change.
Good-bye to Foreign Sec-
retary Eden and his stiffness to
Mussolini in the Mediter-
anean; goodbye to Foreign
Office head Vansittart, whose
resistance to the Nazis became
inconvenient.
Mr. C. would surround him-
self with men whose past and
whose reputation would not
irritate either of the dictators.
Inskip became Minister of
Defence to organise rearma-
ment, apparently because he
had never opened his mouth
on the subject. Not Winston
Churchill, who had opened his
mouth too freely. Churchill’s
appointment would have dis-
tressed “our friends in Italy
and Germany.” Some ridicule
was poured on the Churchill
“theatrical attitude,” as
opposed to the Chamberlain
“settled purpose of peace.”
The people sank back,
soothed by fair words. In
Spain it had become clear that
the British conscience need no
longer fret, because it was now
too late to do anything.
The whole situation had
slumped into hypocrisy.
Franco was well supplied, but
for fear of falling foul of the
dictators neither the United
States nor Britain would sell
arms to the Spanish Govern-
ment, and the Non-Intervention
Committee that was to have
stopped arms shipments to both
sides in practice stopped them
only to the Government.
The Nazis and the Italian
Fascists were openly using the
countryside of the unhappy
Spaniards as an experimental
proving-ground for new
weapons and as targets to give
their bomber-pilots war-experi-
ence. The Communists were
concerned mainly with using
the circumstances to advantage
their own party-strategy.
Certainly whoever won now,
it would not be France, nor
Britain—nor Democracy.
In Europe, the Nazi posses-
sion of Austria had left
Czechoslovakia hemmed in on
three sides, with the famous
Skoda works vulnerable. Those
who followed the course of
events waited for Hitler’s next
move. It stuck out a mile
where —and when —that would
be.
<&T. JAMES’S PARK was
always my favorite park
for a little quiet communion
with ducks and pelicans.
I used from time to time to
see there Neville Chamberlain,
looking rather like a bird
himself, with his small head
on long neck and unlidded eye
(the glare, but without the
cruelty) and the inevitable
umbrella tucked under the
arm poking out behind, a kind
of tail.
The umbrella stuck in my
mind. Chamberlain was the
ALDOUS HUXLEY
(If the lei ter from Huxley to Low in this instalment might have been inscribed “Yours,
without love,” well, maybe this caricature could have a like inscription. It’s from t> 1
famous “New Statesman” series.)


sort of Englishman who carried
his umbrella everywhere. I
was struck by its symbolic
possibilities. Here could be a
new symbol in the ancient
tradition of ideographic
picture-writing, like the palm
for Peace, the clenched fist for
Force, and the others. Keeps
the rain off, shelters from the
blast, can lean on it, poke with
it, may be blown inside-out,
might attract lightning. Perfect.
After that I used the umbrella
regularly as the symbol
of Chamberlain Appeasement.
Sometimes he carried it, some-
times it carried him.
Mr. C. would walk around
tire lake, sometimes with Sam
Hoare, often with his wife.
This morning it was Horace
“WHAT, NO CHAIR FOR ME?”
(Low's “Evening Standard” comment on Russia’s not having been invited to join the
four-Power conference to decide the new Czechoslovakia —one of the several outstanding
cartoons described in this instalment.)
Wilson, the new “appeasement”
head of the Foreign Office. One
could tell from the curve of
their backs that all was not
well. The new chapter of the
Hitler Story was beginning.
The man in Berlin was placing
them squarely on the hot seat
again. Czechoslovakia, accord-
ing to plan. To stop him or
not to stop him? Testing-time
of the “appeasement” policy.
Crisis.
WHILE yet the newspapers
were printing the success
‘of Chamberlain’s talk with
Hitler at Godesberg, I was call-
ing on Beaverbrook that morn-
ing to fin.! him looking blue.
“It’s a’l nil.” he said. “Hitler
doesn't v. ant any part of
Chamber la hr.”
I went to Westminster to
smell the wind.
“How will we get on with
these fellows running it?” said
a knowledgeable correspondent
1 met on the way, jerking his
thumb in the direction of
Whitehall.
I listened to a little knot of
M.P.s.: “He would have gone
on his knees for a kind word
from Hitler.”
Then I went to see Hore-
Belisha’s sixteen a.-a. guns
being installed in Hyde Park.
The tale was that half of them
had no breechblocks.
From there I went and got
out my car, drove to Selfridges,
laid in a stock of mineral-
water, canned-beef and hard
biscuits and returned home to
start digging a shelter.
My next-door neighbor,
who had read in his paper that
Hitler had shaken hands
cordially with Prime Minister
Chamberlain, thought 1 was
crazy.
THAT chapter ended with
Mr. C. alighting from his
airplane waving a paper bear-
ing Hitler’s signature and utter-
ing: “Peace in our time.”
It was very difficult to discuss
the Chamberlain policy sensibly
in those days. To his friends
he was a saint, to his critics
rather less.
“He wanted peace”—but so
did we all. No one impugned
his motives, but only his
judgment.
That his appeasement
approach to Hitler was wrong
was soon demonstrated, for the
ink was hardly dry on the
Munich agreement before the
Ftihrer was openly and noisily
preparing his next step. But
devotion to Mr. C. was so
strong that his friends were
unwilling to admit it. Having
committed themselves to a
fairytale, they could not bring
themselves to face cold reality.
They were determined to wish
appeasement into a success both
as a matter of loyalty to Mr.
C. and to protect their political
investment.
There was, naturally, some
defence of their position when
I struck discordant notes with
a couple of cartoons on the
brutal truth: “When the Pie
was Opened,” with Mr. C.
finding, not singing blackbirds,
but a dead dove in his Humble
Pie; and “Mein Kampf,”
showing crippled Peace accom-
panied by a crestfallen Mr. C.
hobbling down the steps from
the Nazi Chancellery. Such
expression of doubt seemed
almost indecent. Mr. C.
inspired that kind of personal
loyalty.
MAD Mr. C.'s appeasement
policy succeeded, all would
have been well. His personality
would have been well suited to
the role of constructive peace-
maker. But it was as ill-suited
to the contrary role of
determined defender. Hi s
qualities as a man of peace
made him a failure as a man of
war.
If the high price of Munich
had been to buy time, we had
to get value. But there was
no urgency in the air to prepare
to the utmost and quickly. The
vested interests adapted them-
selves at leisure.
My sardonic suggestion that
the slogan “Business as usual”
be painted on our factory roofs
in foreign languages so that
enemy airmen would know we
were keeping calm, was not
kindly received. To irritate
into greater activity, I “ran”
for a while, a pair of cartoon
business-twins: “ ’Sno Use”
and “Can’t Be Done.” There
were depressingly frequent
opportunities for their use.
There w'ere dreadful weeks
when the nation seemed to be
speeding at the rate of a mile
pci year. One day in the foyer
of a West End hotel a Cabinet
Minister whom I knew fairly
well—a high-up in the councils
of decision concerning these
fateful topics—so far relaxed
his discretion as to ask me:
“How are we doing, do you
think? What do we look like?”
Good God, 1 thought, he’s
doubtful, 100.
Under my seeming non-
chalance I was a bit aghast and
wondered how far this lack of
confidence extended to his
colleagues in responsibility.
Poor chaps, theirs Was a tough
job, to get things moving
against the mass of indecision,
reluctance and plain damned
stupidity.
Leslie Hore-Belisha, an old
fellow-w'orker of mine in the
Beaverbrook newspapers, was
a case in point. Because of his
energy and drive Chaniberlain
had made him Secretary for
War. After he had stung the
military council with a spring-
clean of the War Office so
much anlmositv was aroused
among the military Pooh-Bahs
that even his own choice of
Commander-in-Chief advised
him. to disturb the generals
no further.
There were more bitter
passages, and Hore-Belisha
departed from his office soon
after the war began. The event
was greeted in the military
backrooms as though it were
ffie Greatest Victory of the
War.
MOVING around fairly
widely and keeping my
eyes open, it seemed to me
that apart from those “realists”
to whom the principles of
democracy were expendable,
and who thought Britain would
actually benefit from partner-
ship with Hitler, Mr. C. had
the aid and encouragement of
well-meaning people who still
cherished the idea of striking
a bargain—a present of some
colonies in exchange for a
quiet life.
Mr. C.’s Cabinet contained a


group of diehard Imperialists
to balance matters and keep
him awake at nights.
It was a prolific time for
intrigue and private “shadow
Cabinet s,” country-house
cabals and other extra-
democratic activities. I was
in the back-row of some of
them and was aware of others.
Busy gentlemen unadvertised
by the press and unhampered
by the wishes of the vulgar
mob, scheming and planning,
bringing influence to bear.
“What did you tell the P.M.,
Eustace?” . . . “Did you put
that Analysis in the Chief’s
teapot, Percy?”
Unfortunately, noble family,
public-school education and a
distinguished career were not
necessarily the best qualifica-
tions for understanding such an
outsize diversion from type as
Hitler. The clever ones were
quite often disastrously wrong.
The inflated reports of Lind-
bergh, the American flier, on
the immense superiority of
Russia found attentive listeners.
And when Ribbentrop came to
town as Hitler’s Ambassador,
he seemed “quite a nice fellow
really,” despite his rather
caddish trick of giving the
Nazi salute to the King. (There-
after he was “Brickendrop” in
my cartoons.)
Occasionally i met
around Hampstead an
interesting chap named
Vladimir Poliakoff who some-
times passed on items of
information.
I was not the first in print
on the subject of Lady Astor’s
parties at her country house,
Cliveden, at which “Bricken-
diop” was a guest, because
“Polly” had already communi-
cated this tit-bit to the editor
of a mimeographed news-letter
“The Week,” who invented the
label “The Cliveden Set.” But
my cartoons on the subject
probably brought it before an
audience that heard of it for
the first time.
They flashed around the
world as news and produced
a reaction that surprised me.
I had made them deliberately
farcical, not mordant. Nancy
Astor’s good, if at times rash,
heart was well known. But the
weekend meetings at her home
of important non-Parliamentary
public figures, retired diplomats
and distinguished ex-civil-
servants, no doubt for harmless
weekends but supposedly as a
kind of private “brains trust”
to cook-up appeasement deals,
created morbid interest. -
The presence of Dawson,
editor of the “Times,” and
Bernard Shaw did not allay
public uneasiness. The “Times”
(The “Temporiser” to me now
in cartoons showing Dawson
leviewing his Correspondence
Column in Printing House
Square) had become the
clarion-voice of Nazi Appease-
ment ; Shaw, to the consterna-
tion of his admirers, had
applauded Mussolini as a
practical Socialist. That was
the old man losing patience and
wishing for action, even at the
expense of principle. When I
RENDEZVOUS
(Low describes this cartoon —on the meeting of Stalin and Hitler in bombed Warsaw —
as the most bitter he ever drew.)
asked him what about freedom
of expression under the Fascist
regime, he said airily that that
would adjust itself.
(c* UCH a fog of wishful-
thinking and self-deception
descended on ruling, circles that
one could hardly see Whitehall.
As it thickened, public confi-
dence on both their power and
will weakened, and the people
inevitably looked around for
new infusions of strength.
There had never been any
doubt about the uncompromis-
ing and consistent attitude of
Churchill and Eden. But up
came that question of loyalty
to Chamberlain. Churchill,
lacking Eden’s tact, had
become Tory Hate No. 1. If
you were for Chamberlain, you
were against Churchill; for
Churchill, you were against
Chamberlain.
Murmuring grew to argu-
ment, much of it not too
scrupulous. As might have been
expected in such conditions,
advocates of Cnurchill-Eden
and opponents of appeasement
soon found themselves labelled
warmongers and irresponsibles.
So far as I was concerned
Mr. Chamberlain himself set
the example. Addressing the
Newspaper Society’s annual
dinner he said that “German
Nazis have been particularly
annoyed by criticisms in the
British press and especially by
cartoons. The bitter cartoons
of Low in the ‘Evening
Standard’ have been a frequent
source of complaint.”
A FTER that newspapers
that didn’t like me referred
frequently to my “bad-blood
cartoons” and my “bitterness.”
Abuse grew hysterical. “Low
is the worst warmonger we
have,” said a Left paper. “Low,
politically on the extreme Left,
is regarded as the Prime
Minister’s most powerful
enemy,” said a Right paper.
(Phew!)
When I carried out a com-
mission to draw a series of
large cartoons on the world
situation for an American
magazine my old friend
Beverley Baxter, who had
reached the point of identify-
ing loyalty to Chamberlain with
patriotism, suspended amicable
relations long enough to pillory
me in an article entitled
“Slanderers of Britain” as one
who had probably taken
“thirty pieces of silver to betray
hh> country.”
People I knew turned away
and wouldn’t talk to me.
Complete strangers held me up
in public places and would talk
to me. My tobacconist refused
to serve me. People wrote td
me:
22 April, 1938
Dear Mr. Low,
Were I not a true admirer of you*
art, and a friend, I would not writ*
this letter—as no one is a good
judge of those they dislike. But 1
thought your cartoon on Wed.
(20th) “Evening Standard” both
cruel and mischievous. I know
the P.M.—do you? He is a man of
iron courage, calm and resolution.
If we were going to refer to the
Bible, you should have quoted
Christ’s saying “Love your
enemies”—lt is not as silly as it
sounds. Neville is doing the only
right, wise, thing, unless you want
war. Hate, threats—which yom
can’t carry out—and suspicion do
not advance Peace., and if the
P.M. fails we can always jro back
to the policy of the warmongers—-
Winston and Co.
I think Neville has saved the
world by his courage—and so do
much cleverer people than
Yours in sincerity,
MARGOT ASQUITH.
April 26. 1938
Dear Lady Oxford,
Were I a bitter man. by this
time I should he turned to acid by
the way people jump to the con-
clusion that my works are all in-
spired by hatred... .Mr. Chamber-
lain may possess all the qualities
you mention and his policy may
be the best one under the circum-
stances, as you say. I hope so
sincerely. But viewed from the
historical standpoint I think the
more notable feature of recent
happenings has been the final de-
sertion of Abyssinia, Spain, and
the whole League of Nations idea.
Jly cartoon did no more than
record that fact with, I think, some
dignity and restraint. Were I a
politician it might have seemed
more expedient to forget all that
side of it as soon as possible and
applaud the Prime Minister’s
courage, as did many politicians
whose hearts were torn with dis-
appointment at the loss of so
much. But I am not a politician.
Within the limits of my peculiar
medium I strive to be a recorder,
and here I was marking a turn-
ing-point in history. It is my
misfortune that in doing so I
(Continued on page 62)


We’ll Hear More Stars Better
(Vast New “Ear” Will Listen to Outer Space')
By CHARLES MEEKING
BEFORE the end of April the
scientists in the Radiophysics
Division of C.5.1.R.0. with their
headquarters in Sydney University,
hope to receive from a British firm a
“design study” for the vast new radio-
telescope, for which more than £500,000
is already in hand.
A search for a suitable site is now in
progress—the objective being one within
40 miles of Sydney if possible—and other
associated problems are being tackled.
The radio-telescope will be the first of
its kind in the Southern Hemisphere,
where observation is possible of one of
the most interesting parts of the sky, the
centre of our own galaxy. It may almost
rival in size the huge 250 ft.-diameter
bowl now being erected near Manchester,
in England.
Funds have come from the Rocke-
feller Foundation and the Carnegie
Corporation (each contributing the
equivalent of £112,000) and from the
Federal Government, which is to con-
tribute an amount equal to that received
from other sources. Many citizens have
also contributed.
Australian Pioneering
Australia has pioneered this new and
fascinating science of radiophysics. The
first “music of the spheres,” if it can be
termed “music,” was unheard by mortal
man until war-time radar picked out some
vague radio noises coming from the sky.
A young English scientist, working at
Edgecliff, near Sydney, followed up this
slender clue, and in 1947 discovered the
first “radio star.”
It has since been found that this “star”
is actually two colliding galaxies about
30,000 light-years across and 60 million
light-years from the Earth. That’s quite
a distance for radio-sound to travel when
it is remembered that light travels at
186,000 miles a second.
The challenge of radiophysics today is
the challenge of Outer Space: a challenge
that can’t be fully answered by optica!
telescopes. It involves in part a study of
the sun, but also the investigation of
types of phenomena in the universe
previously unknown, immense distances
from us and “broadcasting” from stellar
systems of a size beyond finite compre-
hension. It is providing information on
the distribution of matter in the universe,
and enabling the location and measure-
ment of new star-systems.
Having gained the lead in this science,
Australia is determined to keep it. The
Radiophysics Division people have been
working so far with comparatively
limited but highly ingenious equipment.
They have already made a number of
important discoveries relating to the sun
and the galaxy. Several hundred “radio
stars” mostly invisible to astronomical
telescopes have been identified, and con-
tinuous recordings are being made of
cosmic radio-noise apparently coming
from vast nebulous regions of gas
scattered throughout the universe. This
work will be expanded greatly when the
giant radio-telescope now being planned
is erected and in operation, perhaps in
three years’ time.
The task of designing this instrument,
of finding a suitable site for it, and of
operating it to the maximum of its
efficiency present an extraordinary com-
bination o f scientific, technical,
mechanical and financial problems—the
latter happily almost overcome.
The “Design-study”
The “design-study” now being made
is a study of the various possible methods
of design and construction that might be
used, and of their relative costs. When
this information is available in a few
weeks, the next stage will begin.
The Division will start the task of
selecting the design which will provide
the largest and most efficient radio-tele-
scope capable of being built with the
funds available. Detailed drawings will
then be prepared, tenders will be called,
the site finally chosen, and work begun.
None of the intervening time will be
wasted. The Division already has at St.
Mary’s, near Sydney, a Mills “cross”-
aerial, each arm of which is 1500 ft long.
This gives a high resolution at a wave-
length of 34- metres, but it is, of course,
immovable. There is also a second Mills
cross at St. Mary’s with arms 3000 ft long,
a 36ft. aerial at Potts Kill which can be
moved in elevation, and a third field-
station at Dapto, a unique type of aerial—
now being copied overseas —which keeps
the sun under constant radio-watch.
Much has been done with these instru-
ments, and much more will be accom-
plished. But far more exciting work will
be possible with the new telescope.
Elsewhere in the world there are other
developments, apart from the Manchester
project.
U.S. Activity
In the United States the young English-
man, John Bolton, who was the first man
to detect a “radio star” when he was in
Sydney, is supervising the erection in
California of a pair of 90ft. bowls of
webbed steel, which will move on tracks
2000 ft and 1600 ft. long respectively.
Associated Universities, Inc., is interested
in building an aerial of 140 ft. diameter,
and President Eisenhower recently asked
Congress to vote £1,500,000 for this
purpose.
Many of the aerials already installed
in Australia, known as interferometers,
are each restricted to single wave-lengths,
and have limited fields of “view.”
Explaining the need for the new telescope,
Dr. E. G. Bowen, chief of the Divi-
sion, says “a broad attack on the current
problems of radio-astronomy now
requires a high-resolution and high-gain
aerial, which can operate at any wave-
length and over a large field of view.”
Resolving-power is dependent on the
linear extent of the aerial, to enable it to
distinguish between two sources of radio-
noise which appear close together in the
same area of the sky. The “gain” depends
on the surface area, allowing detection of
objects of small angular size where the
received intensity is low.
Living in a Spiral Nebula
Most importantly, the new instrument
will permit studies of the 21-centimetre
line, produced by hydrogen in inter-
stellar space. It is in these hydrogen-
clouds that new stars are born. From a
study of the hydrogen-clouds in our own
galaxy, we know that we are living in the
midst of a spiral nebula.
The design of the radio-telescope must
be a compromise between various factors.
The most suitable type of aerial is a
shallow bowl, a paraboloid reflector, with
the “feed,” or collector of energy at the
focus. A desirable size would be 250 ft.
diameter, with a wave-length range of 21
centimetres and upwards.
Major engineering problems are
involved in designing a great metal bowl
of this size which is capable of being
pointed anywhere from the zenith to 30
degrees above the horizon and at the
same time maintaining its correct shape
with a high degree of precision in all posi-
tions and under all natural conditions of
temperature and wind. It seems likely
that means will have to be provided for
correcting, automatically, any distor-
tions arising from these causes.
The radio-telescope, of course, will be
operated by day and night, and will be
unaffected by cloud. It is hoped to keep
it in operation in winds of up to 20 miles
an hour, while providing methods of
making it secure against damage by the
occasional high - velocity winds
encountered in all localities.
The problem of finding a suitable site
is complicated by wind-velocities and by
other factors. It is hoped to find a
sheltered but level area, preferably
between ranges of hills which will act as
wind-breaks, not subject to man-made
radio or electrical interference (a weld-
ing plant in the vicinity, for example,
would be disastrous), and not likely to
be so affected in future. It needs, in
general, a low noise-level at all radio-
frequencies. At the same time it should
be reasonably accessible from the Divi-
sion's headquarters in Sydney, away from
the sea, to avoid corrosion, and removed
from main roads, electric drains, high-
voltage transmission-lines and the opera-
tion of farm tractors.


V-7.V
w
w
w,
I
% ri
& & jla y
:r '• •>
12th April to 23rd April-
-10 days 8 nights
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Redcraze, best performer in
Australia today, will be one
of the main attractions at the
Sydney Turf Club’s autumn
meeting next Saturday.
Up to the middle of March
Redcraze’s aggregate was
£60,896. He’s due on Saturday
to contest the £l5OO w.-f.-a.
Rawson Stakes (nine furlongs).
Chief opposition should come
from Kingster, Evening Peal
and Ray Ribbon, with, at time
of writing, Melbourne colt
Summalu (V.R.C. St. Leger
winner) a possible interesting
runner.
Also at Rosehill on Satur-
day, the first running of the
£lO,OOO Golden Slipper Stakes
(six furlongs), richest two-year-
old event in Australian Turf
history. Three months ago
this looked like being an* open
race, with several chances, but
Todman, on performances,
seems all set for a cosy win.
Main rivals should be Gany-
mede, Dubbo, Concert Star
and Mayfair Belle.
Up to last Saturday Teran-
yan looked the most likely
member of L. J. O’Sullivan’s
team to make things interest-
ing in the Doncaster, but Gay
Lover’s form-reversal win in
the Welter with 9.2, or 161 b.
above the limit, gives him a
real Doncaster chance. He
had finished last at his prior
outing at Warwick Farm a
fortnight earlier, but maybe
fast gallons in the interim gave
the stable the necessary
encouragement to plunge on
the Nilo gelding, who was
backed from 33 to 1 to second-
favoritism at 6 to 1.
Gay Lover’s win was one
more argument for the bracket-
ing on the tote of stablemates
when two of them run in a
race. O’Sullivan also started
Light Verse in the Welter ; she
had good backing and finished
fifth.
• • • . •
A. Mulley appeared over-
confident at the finish of the
A.J.C. Cronulla Handicap, in
which his mount, Grenoble,
was passed on the finishing-
line by Buthus, ridden by R.
Williams, one of Sydney’s
most promising apprentices.
Mulley appeared to drop his
hands, maybe believing he had
the race safe. Grenoble ran
such a good race that he should
soon win. There’s not much
of him, but he’s a game colt.
• • • •
Prince Darius handed out
a top performance to win the
Randwick Juvenile Handicap
on a holding track with 8.10.
As at Canterbury Park, when
backed from 25 to 1 to fives,
he again had substantial sup-
port from 14’s to sevens. He
missed-out at Canterbury, but
with a stronger horseman (A.
Ward) in the saddle, he landed
the money at Randwick, and
he could go on to much better
things, because he’s a colt
possessing a powerful finishing
run. Next start may be against
Todman and other class
youngsters in the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes (seven fur-
longs), on April 20. Runner-
up to Prince Darius, Docker,
has started only twice, and his
latest display was encourag-
ing. He shouldn’t be long from
the winning-list.
Two days before she won
at Randwick connections of
two-year-old filly Mayfair
Belle paid the £5O final-,
acceptance fee for a start in
the Golden Slipper Stakes. In
her Randwick race she landed
the money in impressive style
—her second win in three
starts. The stable recognises
that she has little chance of
beating Todman, but the filly
would land quite a worth-
while stake by running into a
minor place. The rich prize
is to be cut up as follows:
First, 60 per cent, of all
moneys and 10 per cent, to
the nominator of the dam;
second, 15 per cent, with 5 per
cent, to the dam’s nominator;
third, 74 per cent., with 24
per cent. to the dam’s
nominator.
• • • •
Golden Kingdom, winner of
the Q.T.C.’s Second Juvenile
Maiden, was the highest-
priced Star Kingdom (imp.)
yearling sold at the Randwick
auction last Easter. He
realised 3600gns. after open-
ing at lOOOgns. George Benn
trains the colt, whose family
includes Shaded (now ready to
strike form) and such former
winners as Triclinium, Shading,
Wattle and Guilty. Golden
Kingdom’s dam, Gilt Veil, a
Randwick winner, is by Veil-
mond from Gold Tinge by
Claro (imp.).
A notable absentee from
Randwick last Saturday was
leading trainer T. J. Smith ; he
was in New Zealand, where he
seemed lucky to secure stayer
Cardigan at auction for
2900gns.—good buying for
such a well-performed galloper.
Cardigan will be raced in Aus-
tralia by Mrs. A. B. Bradley,
owner of Redcraze, but will
not start again until he has
completed a spell of about
three months. He is a four-
year-old by Ruthless (imp.)
from Proven, and was
auctioned at the sale of the
stable of N.Z. Governor-
General Sir Willoughby
Norrie, who later in the year
will return to England. Cardi-
-1 gan is a half-brother to Master
Proven, who won 12 races
and £17,263 in stakes.
The Bloodhorse Breeders’
Association has compiled a
guide to yearling buyers at the
Randwick Easter sales, to be
held by W. Inglis and Son,
Ltd., during the A.J.C. autumn
carnival. The booklet points
out that five of the first seven
in the winning-sires’ .list for
1955-56 are located at N.S.W.
studs. Buyers will have plenty
of class yearlings to bid for at
the sales, which will begin on
April 23 and be held on four
days in all. Auctioneer John
Inglis has a catalogue of 705
lots to dispose of, and several
imported sires will be repre-
sented for the first time. The
list includes Bold Buccaneer,
Flying Missel (Am.), Globe-
trotter, Judicate, King’s Own,
Oleandrin, Rego, Say So and
Star Spangled Banner.
It’s doubtful if anv horse
that raced at Caulfield last
Saturday will win at the A.J.C.
autumn carnival. Main event,
the Glenhuntly Handicap, went
to ex-Sydney stayer Roman
Holiday, who just struggled
home from Globe and Simba,
both of whom have been
racing unsuccessfully around
the country. The race was con-
sidered a Sydney Cup trial for
Emphatic, but he managed
only a poor fourth under his 9.5.
Another horse on trial for a
Sydney trip was Araleum,
engaged in the St. Leger. On
his Neerim Handicap second
to Parvo, Araleum does not
seem likely to trouble either
Summalu or Monte Carlo. The
adage, ‘'horses for courses,”
seems to apply to Parvo. It
was at Caulfield that he sur-
prised by winning this year’s
Futurity. Solidly supported at
his next start, at Moonee
Valley, he ran a weak third.
Back at Caulfield last Saturday,
he again won at outside odds,
thereby touching-off one of the
worst demonstrations ever
heard at that course.
Racegoers at Caulfield had to
cope with three divisions of a
Maiden Two-year-old. Most
impressive of the three winners
was Sweet Gold, a good-
looking bay gelding who cost
former racing-car driver Ron
Chandler only 175gns. at last
year’s sales. Sweet Gold is by
Sweet William, who won
several races in England, and
was successful in Australia
before being retired. This is
the first season his progeny
have raced.
Racing luck seems to run in
cycles. For years the Rockman
Bros., Phil and Norman, have
put a lot of money into the
sport without much return ;
and now in three successive
weeks one of their horses has
been successful. Sir William
won the Queen’s Cup, Mac’s
Amber the Alister Clark Stakes,
and last Saturday Contra won


. M sW aVVa
R- b^ 1 ltV ,-cnee A
***<
. ne d^ b,J ® b^p ee4
,^»" #s
afcU'- 0V
. v^o utne ‘ ’
anw
rxe
•v
a division of the Maiden Two-
year-old. The N.Z.-bred filly,
by Count Rendered out of
Highland Watch, could go on
to better things.
Sidelight of Melbourne
racing over the past couple of
weeks has been Doug Barclay’s
attempt to prove that a jockey
can come back. Twice leading
apprentice, Barclay allowed
his weight to get away from
him. He was forced to seek
mounts over the jumps, and
later around minor country
meetings. Now 26, he is back
under the aegis of his former
master, Fred Hoysted. Hard
work has got his weight down
to 7.12, and in two weeks he
has ridden three winners. And
at a time when Melbourne
racing is suffering from a
dearth of good jockeys, Bar-
clay’s talented, vigorous style
is welcome.
* * *
Ten sprightly two-year-olds
toed the line at Saturday night’s
Harold Park trot-fixture to
decide the £2OOO Sapling Stakes
Final —and best youngster of
the season. But, as is always
a danger with two-year-old
races, there was a scramble at
the start in which the favorite,
Marinetto, tangled with
Penguin and the strong hope
of the fillies, Perfect Lass. Lord
Windermere was slow to move.
Dusty Miller, winner of the
Victo r i a n Sapling Stakes,
slipped through on the paint
to lead. Attack’s Gift, stable-
mate of Lord Windermere,
went fast and headed him off.
In the back stretch last time
round Dusty Miller, proving
not so dusty, was in front
again, looking the winner. Then
from the ruck the long-striding
Lord Windermere emerged, and
in a determined run to the post
wore down the Victorian for a
half-length verdict. Amazing
Power was threequarters of a
length away third.
They ran the mile in 2.12,
equal to the best for the Final
—Don’s Ayr set it in 1948 ;
Peter Scott equalled the time
in 1952.
• • • •
A strapping big bay colt,
Lord Windermere is bred to
win anything ; he displays his
bloodlines in every muscle of
his powerful body. Bred at
Ashburton (N.Z.) by H. Dunlea
and E. J. Rooney, the colt is
by U. Scott (imp.) from
Windermere by Jack Potts
(imp.) from Flying Cloud by
Wrack (imp.) from Pearlchild
by Rothschild from Verity by
Vancleve. He is raced by Mrs.
L. Picken, wife of the colt’s
trainer, Bill Picken, at present
“ Tanglegut , in Boat Five in the nineteen fifty-seven
fishing competition , has hooked a beauty — Oh! Oh!
He's got away!"
under suspension as a driver.
Bill’s brother Andrew a royal
coachman on his night, drove
the youngster in the Final, and
carried his brother’s instruc-
tions to the letter. For a colt
that didn’t really race straight
for any part of the race,
Lord Windermere showed
tremendous potential, and made
feasible the story that he had
run 2.8 on the track, beating
Flying Mile performer Brucus.
ArOUltd the Arenas
Cambridge won the 1957
Boatrace, for the third succes-
s j ve y earj from the more
favored Oxford; time, 19min.
isec. This was the 103rd race ;
Cambridge has won 57, Oxford
45, and there was one dead-
heat. Cambridge also holds the
time-record for the race,
17min. 50sec. in 1948. Oxford
used a new-style American
stroke introduced this year by


Victorian. Rod Carnegie (who
rowed No. 7) and did very well
with it in trials ; but the lighter
Cambridge, sticking to the
traditional stroke, ran out
comfortable winners by two
lengths. Carnegie was the only
Australian in this year’s race,
against three, all with Oxford
(including Carnegie), last year.
* * *
Western Suburbs, which
barely made the semi-finals,
won the 1956-57 Sydney grade-
cricket premiership, with
Glebe-South Sydney runners-
up. Had rain prevented play
on Saturday, as earlier seemed
possible, or-had Glebe managed
to bat all day for a draw (West
the previous week had hit-up
393), Glebe, as minor premiers,
would have taken-out the
pennant. But Glebe was
dismissed for 232. West’s
particular star in the final and
in other recent games (though
some others, like N.S.W. fast-
bowler Wyatt, have also helped
a good bit) has been Test all-
rounder Alan Davidson. In the
final he made a brilliant 128
and took 6-67 ; in the match
before the semi-finals (which
West’s had to win) he’d made
119 not-out and taken 3-40,
and in the game before that
he’d taken 6-4 and 3-20, to help
West’s to an outright win over
Balmain and some sorely
needed competition-points.
“K.R.”: A game’s not won
till it’s lost! In a Northern
Tasmanian Cricket Association
semi-final, Mowbray made 258
and had North Launceston
8-46. North still had at the
wicket Jack Shelton, one of
its recognised batsmen, but you
could surely have written your
own ticket on its chances. Still,
Shelton and No. 10 carried the
score to 256, and North
eventually won by four runs.
Shelton made 152, and the
ninth-wicket stand of 210 is an
N.T.C.A. record.
“K.J.C.”: “Keima” (B.
20/3/’57) was not quite right
in saying that Dr. Otto
Nothling was one of two
medicoes “who, tried in differ-
ent Tests during the 1920’5,
were both discarded after-only
one Test.” Dr. Nothling was
one of three. As well as Dr.
A. E. V. Hartkopf, whom
“Keima” rightly mentions,
there was Dr. Roy L. Park.
Roy was selected for the
second Test in the 1920-21
series, but was bowled first ball
by Howell. Australia won by
an innings, and he had no
chance to redeem himself.
T3ACK, now, to 1957, in
Sydney’s George-street at its
Friday-afternoon thickest, and
Dunleavy’s Gym. unexpectedly
hard to find.
It’s not so many years ago—
less than 20, as a matter of
fact—but there have been
changes. Out at Rushcutter
Bay Stadium, for instance,
where Jack Johnson became
the first negro to win the
heavyweight championship of
the world and a patriotic crowd
from the coalfields burnt the
benches when Fritz Holland
was given the decision over Les
Darcy, huge crowds were
expected to greet a welter-
weight songandance artist from
America. New idols for the
Australian populace.
“Ask a policeman,” said
Ldsby. Many policemen have
trained at Dunleavy’s. Ron
Walden, the present Vice
Squad chief and pillar of
Manly Rugby Union club, was
one of Dunleavy’s pupils. He
won the State amateur heavy-
weight championship in 1931,
and went on to win the Aus-
tralian title.
“Up that lane, first on your
left,” the next cop we sighted
in George-street told us. In a
changing world it’s nice to
know some things are the
same.
And so Jo the yellow build-
ing, side-entrance, lift ... It
was all coming back.
“Jack Dunleavy’s, please.”
Up we go, not too fast. A
sign saying “Michele Mil-
linery”—had that been there
before? Perhaps. There was
a memory of some such
paradox, two extremes of
masculine and feminine fancy
juxtaposed, each self-absorbed.
Or it could have been a floor
below, that promise of adven-
ture for ever unfulfilled, girls
and gladiators brushing against
each other intent on separate
business. In those days one
ran up the stairs for exercise.
Behind this blazon of
femininity, a worn, bold sign-
“ Jack Dunleavy’s Athletic
Club.”
Inside, a corridor, and a
sliding wooden panel on which
we knocked. No answer.
Sounds of training from down
the corridor, where it emptied
into the gymnasium proper.
We studied the walls —a
mere prelude, these, to the
gallery of history inside. The
Marquess of Douglas and
Clydesdale looks down, above
a message in faded hand-
writing. This, one thinks, is
wholly appropriate. The ups
and downs of the old Prize
Ring depended largely on the
patronage, or withdrawal of
patronage, of the aristocracy.
Its professional aspect aside,
there has always been a flavor
of such academies as Gentle-
man John Jackson’s about
Dunleavy’s.
And, of course, this par-
ticular aristocrat was an
amateur of the sport in both
The Les Dcrcy-Fritz Holland
scrap mentioned in this instal-
ment, pictured at the time by
Low. The Bulletin sporting
scribe said that Les was dis-
qualified, “and he richly
deserved it.”
senses of the word. Some
press-comments when he and
Eddie Eagan, then amateur
heavyweight champion of the
world, and present New Yoik
Boxing Commissioner, were
out here are interesting.
They’re from Jack Dunleavy’s
scrapbooks:
In the sweet cause of charity Mr.
Hugh D. Mclntosh is organising a
night of fight whereat the lately-
arrived Marquis of Clydesdale and
his entourage will meet the lilywhite
amateurs of Australia.
Preparations, as far as the train-
ing of the aforesaid blue-blooded
fighters is concerned, are in secret.
Yesterday, at Jack Dunleavy’s, the
Marquis and Mister Eagan, who has
mixed it with world’s champion
Jack Dempsey, were put through
their paces. The press—excepting
the section controlled by Mr. Hugh
D. Mclntosh—were not invited.
Therefore there was consternation
in the camp when a “Daily
Guardian” man walked in in the
midst of the Marquis’s try-out and
noted that the well-bred boxer has
a right that would not disgrace a
blacksmith, and that both he and
Eagan are likely to give the Aus-
tralian amateurs opposed to them
something to remember their lift
into social circle?.
Both the visitors boxed with
Sunny Jim Williams and Frisco
McGale, and showed up particularly
well.
Somewhat different in style
and content, headed “In Great
Form”:
Sydney stadium will be a veritable
fairyland next Thursday night. The
honorary organisers of the great
Clydesdale Charity Boxing Carnival
have arranged for elaborate decora-
tions, and completed a programme
of events, calculated to satisfy all
classes of both sexes. Latest
leports say that all the principals are
“in great form.”
Clydesdale and Eagan had
been in New Zealand, keeping
fit with “skiing, skating, walk-
ing and golfing,” and other
details of the entertainment
follow:
The Minister for Justice (Mr.
McKell) is said to be tit for his
bout with Harry Collins, who is
keeping himself well tutoring pupils
at Withrow’s academy in Oxford-
street. Tommy Uren, always a
delight with a skipping-rope, and
Tom Burrows, former world’s
champion club-swinger, will enter
the ring, and Mr. John Munro,
genial Stadium manager, will give
the public an idea how to punch the
ball.
All the talents. The Minister
of Justice can only have been
W. J., McKell, later Premier
of N.S.W., Governor-General
and Sir William; now a
grazier in the Goulburn
(N.S.W.) district.
Harry Collins, I take it, is
the Harry Collins who was
welter champion when he was
knocked-out by Sunny Jim
Williams in eight rounds. Con-
temporary accounts of the
fight state that Collins,
although only 23, was slipping:
too many tough fights. But he
had knocked-out Eddie
Butcher and Frisco McGale
the same year—l 926. , .
A young chap with fresh-
combed, damp hair and the
rosy, righteous look of the
athlete who has done his duty
and is showered and tidy,
comes out with his little bag,
asks if we want Jack, advises to
go right in . . . Jack is probably
busy, couldn’t hear us.
Jack Dunleavy, with a towel
around his neck, emerges from
near the showers, where he
had been counselling someone
in his soft voice about a sprain.
He is wearing a singlet, and
I am struck again, as I had
been in 1938, by the contrast
between the rugged face and
the arms, light, smoothly-
muscled, hanging loosely from
sloping shoulders to broken
hands. And the contrast
between this absolute relaxation
and the active, watchful eyes.
Dunleavy looks at your eyes
when he is talking to you,
which is an unusual habit.
Many men watch a face, and
glance at another’s eyes
occasionally to make a point.
Other eyes wander all over the
place. But Dunleavy watches
eyes quietly, unobtrusively, and
this gives him an intent, almost
anxious look. It is, I think, an
occupational habit. He sets
great store by the eyes as
signals of intention.
, We introduced ourselves, and
he led us into the little office
{Continued on page 57)


Women’s Letters
SYDNEY
Having giggled away happily for a
couple of hours at the opening night of
the S.U.D.S. revue, “Lower Education,”
one was glad to hear at the cocktail-party
on the following evening that so many
of the talent-packed cast are young
teachers (Val Kelly, Allan Kendall, Anne
Rutter and several others). School-
teachers with a sense of humor are a
real blessing to the country. The party
was given by Professor and Mrs. W. H.
Trethowan (she is the producer of
“Lower Education”). Dr. and Mrs.
Coombs were there, Miss Doris Fitton,
Mr. Hugh Hunt, Mr. and Mrs. Walter
Bunning (she is an undergraduate doing
Arts 11 and has a part in the show).
v # »
There were no bulls or bears that you
could notice at the cocktail-party and
buffet-dinner which the Stock Exchange
Club held at the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron, Kirribilli, on Friday—just
about 140 very nicely dressed people
chattering away. Presiaent B. B.
O’Conor, with Mrs. O’Conor (pretty
peacock-feathered toque), welcomed
guests-of-honor Mr. Lionel McFadyen
(who is chairman of the Stock Exchange)
and Mrs. McFadyen (tiny hat of paie-
blue organdie roses). Noticed there the
member for Mitchell, R. C. Wheeler
(“Sam” to his friends because he used
to be “Sam Weller” at school), with
Mrs. Wheeler (“Twinkle” to her friends,
for obvious reasons).
# # #
Sydney’s new Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
H. F. Jensen, chaired her first meeting
of the Lady Mayoress’s Relief Fund
during the week. Lady Parker and Mrs.
P. D. Hills were among the many who
attended to welcome her and were, with
a third ex-Mayoress, Mrs. E. O’Dea,
nominated as vice-presidents. Mrs.
Jensen, by the way, has called her baby
(now six-weeks old) Cathy. Cathy is the
youngest of a family of five, the eldest of
whom is 20.
# V V
There was a larger-than-usual gather-
ing at the first monthly luncheon of the
Society of Women Writers during the
week, due perhaps to the energy and
drive of the new president, Mrs. G.
Morton Spencer, or perhaps to the per-
sonality of the speaker, Mr. John
McGhee, winner of the “Herald” Literary
Prize, who is tall, handsome and pos-
sessed of a Scotch accent, though “born
in Chile,” which Mrs. Morton Spencer
said seemed so odd, “though thousands
must be.” Mr. McGhee gave some good
advice on “Writing in Spare Time,” the
best being “Don’t wait for the inspira-
tion,” and the next best “Write a lot.”
Marlene Mathews, of course, was the
girl of the week. The Olympic star
married Barry Willard at St. Anne’s
Church, Strathfield, on Saturday, and
about 1200 people were waiting to see
her. She wore long-sleeved white satin
with a broad band of guipure-lace at the
high neckline. Her coronet of seed-
pearls and tulle veil was most becoming.
Matron-of-honor was her sister, Mrs.
Peter Archer; the bridegroom’s sister Fay
was bridesmaid with Margaret Griffiths.
They wore ballerina dresses of aqua-
marine organza, with matching petalled
curvettes in their hair. Marlene is the
eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. E. N.
Mathews, of Strathfield. Her husband is
the only son of Mr. and Mrs. F. Willard,
of Enfield. Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Marlene had made her debut as an art-
show-opener earlier in the week. It was
at the second annual art-exhibition of
the South Strathfield Primary School, of
which both she and her husband, Barry
Willard, are ex-students. “I did a bit of
running when I was at school,” she said,
“but I didn’t always win.” The exhibi-
tion of watercolors was sponsored by the
school’s P. and C. Association under the
guidance of Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Butler
ana Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Melville. There
were 92 entries for the exhibition, by
well-known artists. The prizewinner,
“Kurrajong Trees,” was painted by Brian
Stratton.
* ☆ ☆
Another pretty wedding was that of
Sari, the Norman Goldbergs’ only
daughter, to Wesley Browne, of Rand-
wick. The red satin shoes and red
bouquets of the bride’s attendants high-
lighted an otherwise all-white wedding,
delustred satin for the bride and faille
for her matron-of-honor, Mrs. Gil
Spencer, and bridesmaids Jan Greenberg,
Pam Horton and Yvonne Jones. After
the wedding at the Great Synagogue a
reception was held at the Hotel Australia.
☆ ☆ ☆
People seem to think that the world is
deteriorating, but really in many ways it
is improving. Miss Dorothy Knox,
principal of the Presbyterian Ladies’
College, Pymble, speaking at the 82nd
annual meeting of the Infants’ Home,
Ashfield, said that the founders of the
home—women who were trying to help
unwed mothers and their babes —were
regarded at the time as little better than
vice-mongers; speeches were made
against them in Parliament, and they met
with opposition from many sources.
Today, however, this work is subsidised
by the Government and regarded by all
as one of the truest forms of charity.
There are 61 little ones up to the age
of five at the Ashfield Infants’ Home at
present, all in the pink of health, as
prettily dressed and as happy as a child
should be. They are all children whose
parents cannot look after them in a
private home, and here they are being
cared for in a bright and gay atmos-
phere. The parents pay something
towards their upkeep, but as it has been
worked out that it costs about £8 per
week to keep a child at this standard it
is obvious that donations are welcomed,
even if only in the form of clothing for
the little ones.
☆ ☆ ☆
There is a concert tomorrow night
(Thursday, April 4) at the Mosman Town
Hall, which, apart from providing enter-
tainment and furt for those who are
lucky enough to go to it, will help to
provide a television-set for the war
at Graythwaite Red Cross Home.
CANBERRA
Autumn sunshine and a garden setting
at the N.Z. High Commissioner’s Mugga
Way residence made the outdoor fashion-
parade arranged by the Pan-Pacific and
South-east Asian Women’s Association
an enjoyable to-do. The elegant gowns
displayed, cut on both Oriental and
Western lines, were conceived by
Japanese designer Madame Chiyo Panaka
and made in Japan, and, donated by the
Embassy, they "were later sold to help
raise funds for a delegate to attend the
international conference in Japan next
year.
The parade was opened by the world
vice-president, Senator Agnes Robertson,
who was introduced by the wife of the
N.Z. High Commissioner, Mrs. G. E. L.
Alderton. Dame Pattie Menzies attended
with her daughter, Mrs. Peter Henderson,
and toddler granddaughter Edwina;
coaxed to draw a raffle for a lady’s hat,
Edwina cleverly drew a ' ticket with
Dame Pattie’s name on it. Among the
many guests who enjoyed the parade was
Lady Carrington, wife of the U.K. High


Commissioner. Attractive Miss Kimi
Suzuki, daughter of the Japanese Am-
bassador, acted as model for a demon-
stration of the intricate art of tying an
obi, the traditional Japanese sash—which,
incidentally, is syds. long.
Compere of the parade was -Mrs. A.
Tange, wife of the secretary of the
Department of External Affairs, who
wore an elegant frock in grey-and-white
patterned silk and large white platter-
hat.
☆ ☆ *
A gay throng of delegates and guest*
mingled at the party given by. the
Plastics Institute of Australia to mark
the opening of the first Australian con-
vention. During the buffet-reception at
the Hotel Canberra an aptly-titled color
film, “The World Nature Forgot,” on
the development of plastics, was screened.
Federal president Mr. E. K. Stewart and
Mrs. Stewart received the guests. Mr.
John Swallow, chairman of 1.C.1. Plastics,
Ltd., England, and Mrs. Swallow, were
among the visiting delegates. Attractive
Belgian, Mrs. Johnston-Bell, wearing a
black-and-silver patterned cocktail-suit,
was noted chatting with the High Com-
missioner for Ceylon, Mr. P. R. Gunase-
kara; she was at one time editor of a
society-magazine published in India and
is now living in Sydney.
MELBOURNE
India’s High Commissioner, A. P.
Menon, was host at a late-afternoon
party in the banquet-room at Menzies’,
held to celebrate the opening of the
Indian Tourist Bureau. Miss Jayanti
Sen, receptionist at the bureau, wore a
white muslin sari with a fragile white-
lace blouse. Representing the Premier,
Mr. A. J. Fraser was accompanied by
Mrs. Fraser, whose slim black frock was
worn with a grey velvet jewelled petal-
cap. Those who attended included Mr.
and Mrs. Len Dooling (she wearing a
dyed-ermine cape over a black pleated
frock), Mr. and Mrs. Anton de Neeve,
Sir John Jungwirth, Mr. Geoffrey Smith,
Bettie Chisholm, Mary Elizabeth Fitz-
gerald (in cream Honan-silk frock and
matching satin pillbox-hat) and Ailsa
Holyman (a white curvette going with
her black frock).
☆ ☆ ☆
The Military Attache for the Embassy
of the Union of Burma, Captain Tin
Thane Lu, and Madame Lu celebrated
Burma Armed Forces Day—an important
holiday in Burma —with a reception at
the New Burwood, Hawthorn. On each
side of the Burmese and Australian flags
was a large photo of the late General
Aung San, who did so much for Burmese
independence. Assisting her parents
receive the many guests was eldest
daughter Gladys Nilar Lu, who, like her
mother, wore colorful national dress and
Burmese jewellery.
Among the guests were First Naval
Member Sir Roy Dowling and Lady
Dowling, Brigadier and Mrs. A. T. J.
Bell, Assistant U.S. Air Attache Lieut.-
Col. Collas Harris and Mrs. Harris, chief
of the U.K. Liaison Staff Rear-Admiral
R. S. Wellby, Captain J. A. Walsh,
R.A.N., Thailand Military Attache
Colonel Prapat Kuvanonda and his wife,
and the Assistant Military Attache for
Indonesia, Capt. N. Aman.
# # #
The Prince Henry’s Hospital and
Royal Melbourne Almoner Auxiliary will
miss Mrs. W. K. Burnside for a few
months, when, with her husband, she
leaves on April 17 for a six-months fly-
ing-trip which will include Singapore,
Calcutta, Beirut, Rome and Switzerland,
where Mr. Burnside will represent Mel-
bourne Rotary at a conference to be held
in Lucerne. Visits to Holland, Germany,
England, Spain, Norway and Sweden will
follow before the couple return home via
the U.S.
Lily Moore, one of the famous
theatrical sisters, made her first stage
appearance at the age of nine; at 12 she
toured China, Japan, Canada and the
U.S., returning to Australia to take up
roles with The Firm. She has played in
practically every theatre and music-hall in
England, appearing with such artists as
Will Fyfe, Flanagan and Allen, and
Beatrice Lilley. She has a long list of
musical-comedies to her credit; straight
comedy is also her forte —she was in
“Separate Tables” with Dame Sybil
Thorndike and Sir Ralph Richardson.
Currently she has the role of Mrs.
Osborne in “Hippo Dancing," at the
Princess. Photo by Harry Jay.
Brushed-nylon, a knitted fabric which
has been passed over a brushing-machine
to produce a velvety pile on one side,
leaving the other side smooth and silken,
was used to make a collection of charm-
ing fashions, seen in a parade at the
Hotel Australia. This material has the
velvety surface outside for nightgowns
and housecoats, but for slips the silken
side is out, so that frocks go over it
easily. Brushed-nylon washes, but it takes
longer to dry than nylon-tricot, the fabric
now being used for most lingerie. House-
coats of nylon-fur were also seen in the
parade ; .these can be washed or sponge-
cleaned to remove spots. Wool and
nylon were combined in attractive undies.
One of the most amusing garments seen
was an old-fashioned nightshirt and
matching nightcap in a cherry-pie shade.
Just as amusing (and serviceable as well
in cold weather) were below-knee-leng h
pantaloons worn under a filmy nylon
ballerina frock.
☆ ☆ ☆
The Ascot Day Nursery will benefit
from the luncheon and hat-parade held
at Ascot House. Situated in the Royal
Agricultural Showgrounds, the Nursery
has to close while the Show is on in
September, and the staff and children will
then have a holiday at Monbulk, where
the National Fitness Council has a large
camp.
Mrs. David Ely, president of the com-
mittee caring for the Nursery, greeted the
Lady Mayoress (Lady Selleck) and many
guests at the luncheon, where the hats
shown cams from the Carousel Salon.
Mrs. Ely chose a black slim-fitting frock
and large tangerine straw picture-hat,
Lady Selleck a sage-green silk suit corn-
spotted in white and a ruby velvet cloche.
Among the guests were the Mayoress of
Essendon (Mrs. Ruby Reid), committee-
secretary Mrs. C. C. Bolton, Mrs. Rupert
Mott, Mrs. Kennedy Park, Mrs. W. J.
Coppack, Mrs. G. W. Tait and Mrs.
J. W. Fraser.
☆ ☆ *
It came out so warm at Caulfield for
the V.A.T.C. meeting that those women
who wore their new autumn suits soon
regretted the choice. Weather-wise Mrs.
Norman Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, wore a tie-silk frock in royal-
blue patterned in grey and white and a
small white hat wreathed with flowers.
The guests at her luncheon included the
Lady Mayoress (whose grey-blue
patterned silk frock was worn with a
tiny hat of white flowers), Lady Hyde,
Lady Burston, Mrs. R. V. Gove (her
cocoa-brown angora frock worn with a
high-crowned toque of beige melusine),
Lady Kearns, Lady Lienhop, Mrs. P. R.
Beare and Mrs. John Hussey.
☆ ☆ ☆
Pianist Julia Fay Rosefield, who is tour-
ing South-east Asia with" the Australian
Children’s Theatre, has married in
Bandoeng, Indonesia, Swiss scientist Dr.
Karl Thomas Swicky, Professor of
Biology at Bandoeng University. Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Schaeffer, with whom Fay
was staying, “stood-in” for Fay’s parents
(she is the eldest daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
Clifford Rosefield, of Brighton), the
marriage taking place at the Residency.
Dr. Swicky is the eldest son of-Mrs. A.
Swicky, of Zurich, and the late Professor
Swicky. When Fay completes her tour
she will rejoin her husband, and when his
contract expires they plan to visit Dr.
and Mrs. Rosefield before going to
Switzerland.


Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARKKRE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts, like a hand
when placed flat -Upon
the orifice. You will
at once, without
effort and in all
movements, control
youi hernia with comfort and
security. Jt cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for FREE Literature
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION 00.
(Dept. 3.j), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the Sehool.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, B.A», B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy Treasure Trails in Art
(1932), by Anne C. Chandler, and
vol. 1 of Reader’s Digest Condensed
Books (1954). —6489.
To contact anyone knowing the
whereabouts of or any relevant
information on copies of Henry
Kendall’s letters, in any form (but
especi; 'y holographs), that may be
o ( use in the compilation of a
critical edition of Henry Kendall’s
Letters (1839-1882). Donovan
Clarke, St. Paul’s College, Uni-
versity of Sydney.
Information Sought
Some particulars of aircraft-
carrier H.M.A.S. Melbourne ? (1)
Vital statistics of the ship ? (2)
Particulars of planes carried ?
(1) Built by Vickers Armstrong,
of Barrow, in Furness, England,
the Melbourne was commissioned
on October 25, 1955. She has a
displacement of 19,930 tons, a flight-
deck of 1.28 acres, a range of
7300 miles, and a complement of
1350 men. She features in modern
design the angled deck, mirror-
landing aids and the new steam-
catapult that can boost a plane’s
speed from zero to 100 m.p.h. in a
matter of 100 ft. (2) The ship
carries eight fighters (Sea Venoms),
12 anti-submarine Gannets and two
Bristol Sycamore helicopters. The
Gannet (816 and 817 Squadrons)
is a twin-engined anti-submarine air-
craft weighing 20,0001 b.; it is
powered by a double-mamba turbo-
prop engine. A self-contained
hunter-killer unit, it incorporates the
latest electronic devices with radar
and sonobuoys for submarine detec-
tion, and the humming torpedo for
subsequent destruction. It has a
crew of three—pilot, observer and
telegraphist. The Sea Venom (808
Squadron) is a two-seater, all-
weather interceptor jet-fighter, cap-
able of a high rate of climb and
excellent manocuverability at extreme
altitude. Her interceptions are made
by the observer using the radar-set
in the nose, directing his pilot to
a position where the four 20mm.
guns can be fired at the target. Her
complete armament is four 20mm.
Hispano guns (150 rounds per gun)
and eight rocket-projectiles or two
5001 b. bombs. This aircraft can also
be used in the strike-army support
role. The helicopters are carried
for air-sea rescue, communication
and ambulance duties. They seat a
pilot, an aircrewman and three
passengers or a pilot, doctor and
stretcher-case.
* * m *
A few details of the rail-disaster
that occurred in N.S.W. about 30
years ago, involving goods-trucks
and an oncoming passenger-train ?
The accident occurred at about
11.40 p.m. on Sept. 13, 1926, when,
near the top of Murulla bank, near
Murulla station, the emergency
coupling of a goods-train gave way,
breaking the train in two. A brake-
van and ten trucks hurtled _ about
lialf-a-mile before colliding with the
Svdney-bound North-west Mail.
Twenty-seven people were killed; 42
injured.
* * * *
What was the first instance of
wage-fixing in N.S.W. ?
Wages in N.S.W. were fixed as
early as 1795, when Governor
Hunter issued the following Govern-
ment and General Order - .' —
It being necessary to establish the
rate of daily wages for reap-
ing, the Governor, to encourage industry,
and to discourage every attempt- at
imposition (which he has been in-
formed has been designed to be prac-
tized by the reapers at the approaching
harvest), thinks proper on comparing
with the usual price fixed in England,
to direct that ten shillings, and no
more, shall be demanded for reaping
an acre of corn ; and any settler who
shall be proved to have given or
offered more will be refused any future
assistance’ from the Government.
On Jan. 14, 1797, Hunter issued a
second Order, which directed settlers
in each district to meet quarterly to
agree on scales of wages to be
paid to employees. Then, on March
14, 1797, another Order was pub-
lished. This laid out a comprehen-
sive scale of wage-payments, such
as: “Falling forest timber, per
acre 95.; ditto in brush ground,
10s. 6d.; pulling and husking
Indian corn, 6d. per bushel; split-
ting palings 7ft. long, per hundred,
35.; splitting palings sft. long,
2s. 6d. per hundred; yearly wages
for labor, with board, £10; wages
per week, with provisions consisting
of 41bs. of salt pork, or 61bs. of
iresh, and 211 bx. of wheat with
vegetables, 65.” An Order pro-
claimed on April 14, 1797, offered
a reward for information concern-
ing employers or employees not
abiding by the wages-scale; action
was threatened against them.
* * * *
Words of the verse “Nine Miles
from Gundagai” ?
There are two versions of the
verse in Jack Moses’s Nine Miles
from Gundagai (published by Angus
and Robertson; Sydney, 1938). The
following is the earlier version.
There are as well, various song-
versions.)
I’ve done my share of shearing sheep,
Of droving and all that,
And bogged a bullock-team as well,
On a Murrumbidgee flat.
I’ve seen the bullock stretch and strain
And blink his bleary eye,
And the dog sit on the tucker box,
Nine miles from Gundagai.
I’ve been jilted, jarred and crossed in
love ,
And sand-bagged in the dark,
Till if a mountain fell on me
I’d treat it as a lark.
It’s when you get your bullocks
bogged—
That’s the time you flog and cry.
And the dog sits on the tucker box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
We’ve all got our little troubles
In life’s hard, thorny way.
Some strike them in a motor car,
And others in a dray.
But when your dog and bullocks strike
It ain't no apple pie.
And the dog sat on the tucker box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
But that’s all past and dead and gone,
And I’ve sold the team for meat.
And perhaps some day where I was
bogged,
There’ll be an asphalt street.
The dog, ah ! well he got a bait,
And thought he’d like to die.
So I buried him in the tucker box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
Brief Answers
Brisbaner: Briefly, it is the Atlas
of Australian Resources, prepared
by the Department of National
Development, Canberra; it is
expected to run to about
50 individual map s, 20 of
which have so far been published.
Copies of these are available —
unfolded, with commentary,
10s. 6d.; linen-strip-mounted to file
in binder, with commentary, 12s. 6d.
Box-containers are available, also at
10s. 6d.; loose-leaf binders (one
holds all maps), 30s. For further
particulars, contact Angus and
Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-
screet, Sydney, the publishers....
G.A.H.: (From the Department of
Public Health.) Bacteria are con-
tained in the fascal matter which is
discharged into a septic-tank. Some
of these (the anaerobic variety) work
in the absence of oxygen in the first
chamber of the tank and feed on the
organic material contained in the
nightsoil, breaking it down to less
complex organic compounds. This
has the effect of liquefying the mass.
The liquefied nightsoil then spills
over by displacement into the pre-
pared filter-bed of the tank where
the nitrifying aerobic bacteria, work-
ing in the presence of oxygen,
oxidise the organic material further
to reasonably simple stable com-
pounds. The final effluent from the
tank is discharged into properly con-
structed absorption-trenches where
further aerobic and earth-treatment
complete the destruction of most of
the organisms. The bacteria in a
septic-tank never become flies; they
are members of a different order of
Nature... .A.J.P.: (From the Chief
Secretary's Department.) The
department is unable to supply any
native freshwater fish; you could
only get these by transplanting them
from a near-by stream. If you
decide to do this, you should apply
for an appropriate permit on the
form forwarded to you. In waters
in which the surface-temperature
does not exceed 70 degrees
Fahrenheit, trout may be introduced.
But, naturally, they will not breed
Under pond or dam conditions; sa
you will have to restock from time
to time. Trout may occasionally
be obtainable from either the
Monaro Acclimatisation Society’s


Chateau Tanunda “ Historical Firsts” No - 34 *
m
m
r*'
/r
%
r
J:
Sir
,
; ... “^P
H. M. Cutter "Mermaid ”
The Trek Northward to Queensland
Like both New South Wales and
Tasmania, Queensland (second
largest State in Australia) took its
original shape as a penal settlement.
John Oxley, Surveyor-General of New
South Wales, who made many important
Australian explorations and, amongst
other things planned the town of Bathurst,
N.S.W.—was sent north from Sydney in
1823, to seek a site as a settlement for the
prisoners, to relieve Port Macquarie, He
sailed in the 84 ton cutter, “Mermaid,”
which was subsequently wrecked in
October, 1829, on a reef east of Frank-
land Island, not far from Cairns. In the
course of examining Moreton Bay he
explored the Brisbane River and decided
to recommend that a penal depot should
be established at Redcliffe Point (Humpy-
bong). This suggestion was accepted in
Sydney and in September, 1824, a detach-
ment of the 40th regiment and a working
party of convicts founded a depot at
Humpybong. Oxley continued to explore
the area and, a little later, found nearby
“a not ineligible place for a settlement” at
Edenglassie (later called Brisbane). This
site appealed particularly to Governor
Brisbane’s successor, Darling (1825-31),
because of its “tediousness and difficulty
of access” and convicts were sent north to
erect the necessary buildings. When the
penal settlement was officially constituted
in August, 1826, “colonially convicted”
prisoners were sent to it and Port Mac-
quarie was slowly emptied of its convicts.
Once this settlement began to take shape
and further explorations (especially by
Cunningham in the fertile Darling Downs)
were made, flock-owners from N.S.W.
began to move into the rich lands around
Brisbane. Development of Brisbane was
slow, however, and as late as 1836 the
settlement consisted entirely of buildings
for convict or military use. In 1839, moves
were made for the gradual withdrawal of
convicts, but a prolonged drought in
1841-3 caused a major setback. The first
sale of Brisbane land was held in Sydney
on July 14, 1842, and within a year town
allotments were realising up to £250 an
acre. However, even the establishment of
regular communication by sea between
Sydney and Brisbane did not draw as many
settlers north as was hoped and, in 1846,
the Brisbane area had only 1,599 in-
habitants. Thereafter, progress was more
rapid ; by 1851, the population had risen
to 8,575 and there were more than a
million sheep in Moreton Bay and the
Darling Downs.
Queensland became an independent State
in 1859 and within six years settlement
had begun in the remote north and west.
Vast pastoral expansion, growth of the
sugar cane industry along the coast and
the discovery of the Gympie goldfield in
1867 were major factors in Queensland’s
development.
The fertility of Queensland
soil and her many natural,
attractions-includingthe 1,200 -
mile Barrier Reef, which is
probably Australia’s most
remarkable geographical
feature—have shaped her des-
tiny. Queensland now has
nearly 1,320,000 people— 7 ohn ° x!e y
about one-seventh of Australia’s popula-
tion in an area that is slightly more than a
fifth of the Commonwealth.
First in Quality—First in Favour
CHATEAU TAHUNOA
A Product of the House of Seppelt
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
N.S.W. Agents : 335 Kent St., Sydney
Distributors of fine spirits for 118 /ears
*Copfet of each of iht scries primed on Art Paper, available Jree on application from Tucker & Co. Ftp. Limited
hatchery at Jindabyne or the
Ballarat Fish Acclimatisation
Society, in Victoria. The secretary
of the Monaro society is Mr. A. W.
Pavy, P.O. Box 14, Cooma; it is
suggested that you contact him or
the Ballarat society. If fish are to be
imported from Ballarat, however,
an appropriate import-permit must
be obtained from this department.
J.E.C.: Lobsters won’t fall out
of a trap if it is tilted on its side;
but weights are usually attached to
the bottom of the trap, to keep it
firmly on the ocean-bed. Two house-
bricks would be suitable for use as
weights.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
D.M.H.: You’ve probably got
a point:- —
I’ll saddle up my neddy
And start aiong the track.
I’ll ride into the ba'ekblocks
And never more come back.
1 don’t care for all the transports
That cram the Queen’s highway
And drive right past the stock-route
camps,
For the drover’s had his day.
But we are still a living race,
A thriving, hearty throng.
We still can shift the mobs along
When mechanism goes wrong.
... .M.R.: It seems a dreadful thing
to reject a poem aimed at reforming
the world; but we’re going t 0....
D.M.H.: “The autumn leaves are
falling.” Sweeping them up into
poems is a national industry of pro-
portions truly prodigious....
J.S.R.: The best thing you can do
with “Shark” is to have it eaten
by one J.C.M.: Got as far as
“sliding sweat upon the curl of the
twitching moustache of crepe-
rubbered foam” and then, twitch-
ing our moustache, crept off
D.1.F.: If, as it appears, it was your
aim to write the most abominable
doggerel, you have succeeded
M.T.: The. tractors are all right but
you do wander a long way from
them C.S.: Forget about win-
nowing zephyrs and fairy shallops.
. ...A.M.D.: They were surprising
hairpins... .E. 8.: And what, as
the Duchess would say, is the moral
of that? That hawks don’t read the
newspapers? A.J.F.: If all the
city-poets go back to the bush and
all the bush-poets swarm to the
city, as both are always threatening,
things will be much the same any-
how.... F.S.: “Anzac Day” poem
should find a home elsewhere;
we’re overstocked on the theme.
... .J.W.M.: “Shearing” came
close J.H.: Something in all of
them... .A.E.D.: “Fancy - free”
promising if you’re very young....
G.R.: We can take the rest of it for
granted:—
“We’ll paint the kitchen,” the Old
Man madly cried.
The kids nearly choked and I almost
died.
Came the weekend and the paint, he
even got the gear,
Then old Tim called “We’re going fish-
ing—got a keg of beer!”
.... D.M.H.: The captain sank....
J.P.S.: “Pipe Dream” vanished into
fmoke... .M.L.L.: All lightweights.
. ...A.8.: No freshness in them.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NASSER AND THE U.S.
If one were looking for some
coherent theme in all the
Middle East turmoil it might
be found in the slow and
apparently inevitable way
President Eisenhower an d
Nasser have been brought face-
to-face.
Nasser, for what his words
are worth, has by appointing an
Egyptian administrator for the
Gaza Strip and announcing
his intention of reoccupying
it apparently set himself
squarely across the U.S. policy.
In his moral undertakings to
Israel the U.S. President has,
as the following opinions
suggest, adopted an attitude
from which he can hardly
back down without suffering
considerable loss of respect in
international affairs.
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“Mania or desperation?
Whatever his impulse, Nasser
has put the legalists on the spot.
Outrageous affront though it is v
he can assert that his reoccupa-
tion of the Gaza Strip has
legalistic justification. Elgypt
was the victim of aggression ;
she appealed to the United
Nations, and the United
Nations intervened to save and
extricate her. On that basis,
she can now thank her rescuers
and dismiss them. This is a
caricature of the true circum-
stances. It is, however, the
foundation of the United
Nations’ presence in the Gaza
Strip. The Assembly, controlled
by the pro-Egyptian bloc, could
never have been induced to
send a force there except as a
rescue-squad under Egyptian
orders. Nasser’s order now is
‘Get out! ’ ”
The same: “The decision to
force the Israelis out of Gaza
by threatening sanctions was
taken by the President [Eisen-
hower] and by the President
alone. It sprang from his own
personal conception of bis role
in world-affairs as the upholder
of the moral law. It was
imposed on a hostile Congress
and in the face of a violently
sceptical American public
opinion. It was the President,
and not Mr. Dulles, who urged
the Israelis to rely on the
‘resoluteness of the friends of
justice’ to protect their vital
interests. The Israelis with-
drew, - not because of any
American guarantee or because
of a hard-and-fast United
Nations resolution, neither of
which they received. They with-
drew because they decided to
put their trust in Mr. Eisen-
hower’s sense of justice. If,
therefore, Colonel Nasser goes
ahead with his avowed inten-
tion of reoccupying the Gaza
Strip, this will constitute not
so much a ' challenge for
American policy as a critical
test of the President’s good
faith.”
“Manchester Guardian” :
“He [Nasser] must know', how-
London “Daily Mail”
THE GAZA STRIP
ever, that a sudden violation of
the private assurances he is
supposed to have given the
United States would revolt
even the oatient President
Eisenhower.”
London “Economist ” : “The
restoration of the Israeli-
Egyptian armistice was the
starting-point of all U.N.
decisions on the question: but
the meaning of the armistice
was the real issue. Israel denies
its continuing existence. Egypt
justifies by the armistice, as
distinct from a peace, its right
to blockade Israel. The aggre-
gate of self-justified infringe-
ments by both sides led to war,
and the restoration of the
armistice looks like leading to
war again. U.N.O. should say
what it means by the armistice;
let that much be clear, at least.
As it stands, there is nothing
apparently to deny Egypt the
rights it claims in the Gulf
[of Akaba], the canal and the
Gaza Strip; except, of course,
thaf it might lead to a breach
of the peace—and even then,
Israel could be arraigned as an
aggressor.”
London “Time and Tide”:
“Colonel Nasser does not want
peace and stability ; he wants
chaos and near-war. It is
unlikely that at present he can
mobilise anything like the force
which Israel destroyed in the
Four Days’ War ; but with full
control of the Gaza Strip he
can and will wreak a good deal
of harm against a nation with
whom he has said again
(though U.N.O. and the State
Department have chosen to
ignore his saying it) that he is
at war. His agents have
already shattered the efficient
calm which reigned in the Gaza
Strip during Israel’s four
months’ administration ; all the
amenities of a civilised State,
which Israel introduced, have
been precipitately abandoned
and destroyed. Gaza is revert-
ing rapidly to what it was
before October 29 — a danger-
ous base for a campaign of
terror.”
“Yorkshire Post ”: “Once
again, weakness has not paid in
confronting a bully. It never
does. Colonel Nasser, who
calls for protection from the
U.N,, but ignores its requests
whenever it suits him,; will stick
to his impudent defiance until
he is given a stern lesson. As
long as the U.N. wavers and
quavers he will exploit every
clash of opinion on the side of
the West* He will try bluff, he
will try abuse, he will employ
every ruse he has learned from
Fascist and Communist tech-
niques, he will exploit the divi-
sions in the U.N. and the
world’s desire for peace. He is
convinced that his nuisance-
value will enable him to win
one diplomatic victory after
another. He is prepared to lead
the Middle East repeatedly to
the brink of war, confident that
one or other of the Great
Powers will rescue him from
disaster.
“Only the firmest handling
by the U.N. under determined
United States leadership will
check his trouble-making.”
London “Daily Express”:
“To Sir Anthony Eden, battling
to recover from his serious ill-
ness, the news from the Middle
East can bring little comfort.
But he has the consolation of
knowing that, if his wise pur-
pose had prevailed, an
explosive area of the world
would be vastly less dangerous
than it is. He has the satisfac-
tion of knowing that he was
right.”
The Two Chinos
Recalling Dean Acheson’s
comment in 1949 that the
Nationalist Government of
China had “lost the confidence
of its own troops and own
people,” Edinburgh “Scots-
man” classes it as one of Mr.
Dulles’s illusions that he
believes “the United States is
doing a service to the world by
continuing to recognise Chiang
Kai-shek as the ruler of China,
and by opposing the admission
of Communist China to the
United Nations.”
The Acheson appraisal, the
“Scotsman” adds, is still the
realistic one, “and it is because
Britain accepts this fact that
she has recognised the Com-
munist Government as the
Government of China”:
“The United States holds that
it is more important not to
recognise the Communist
regime and shuts its eyes to the
facts. This leaves Chiang Kai-
shek with the belief that
American aid will eventually
help him to launch an attack
on the mainland, though the
Americans have really no
intention of doing this. It
would be a disastrous enter-
prise, and one which the
United States would have to
undertake alone.
“C hia n g Kai-shek has
maintained in the last few
days that the Nationalist Army
could at any time open up a
’second front’ which after
three months would result in a
widespread revolt of the
Chinese people. But the United
States has dimmed his hopes by
saying that the Nationalist
forces are being built-up for
defence and not offence.
“Yet Mr. Dulles keeps on
reminding people that the


mm
1
CO
C 3 fj
U
V
TL
ml
\ i
’A 7
All your
Banking
under one
roof
Modern facilities for all
It is sometimes more economical and always
more convenient to conduct all your banking
in the one office.
This Bank and its subsidiary, C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited, offer you full banking facilities
‘'under one roof."
Deposits in the C.B.C. Savings Bank
Limited are guaranteed by the parent
company.
The Bank's officers will be
glad to tell you how its modern
facilities and services can help
you.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
United States supports Chiang
Kai-shek.
“The policy of non-recogni-
tion was applied to the Japanese
seizure of Manchuria before
the war. As this was simply
non-recognition of an exten-
sion of Japan’s territory it did
not prevent the conduct of
international relations with
Japan. But by not recognising
the real rulers of China at the
present time the United States
impedes the development of
international relations without
effectively checking the Chinese
Commuivsts, except that they
are being kept out of Formosa.
“The major problem of
dealing with them as a political
fact is ignored.”
The Drift From Britain
Concern over the increasing
migration from Britain has
been mainly focused on the
large numbers of young and
skilled men leaving the country,
but there is, the Earl of Sel-
bourne points out in a letter
to London “Daily Telegraph,”
just as much cause for worry
in the number of wealthy
people who have left the
country because of high taxa-
tion.
“In this list,” he writes, “we
can place the late Mr. Gulben-
kian, who, in the days when it
was no crime to be rich, paid
this country the compliment of
naturalising himself a British
subject. After the war, how-
ever, he decided to live in
Portugal, and his estate of
£3OO mi!’lion is now being
administered from Lisbon.
“We have also recently read
that the late Mr. Sigrist, who
is reputed to have left an estate
of several millions, chose a
domicile outside this country.
There are scores of other well-
known examples.
“Among other results have
been the migration of com-
panies with total capital assets
of hundreds of millions and
the buying-up of British
companies by foreign interests.
Then there are the ships which
used to be registered in Britain
but are now registered in
countries like Panama. And
there are a number of valuable
pictures and antiques which'
are being continuously sent
abroad.
“The amount of wealth
comprised under these head-
ings must amount to many
hundreds, if not thousands, of
millions of pounds, which
have been driven out of this


What Communism
really means
In Hungary, Russian Com-
munism showed its true char-
acter, ruthlessly suppressing a
defenceless population.
Now, in your April Reader’s
Digest, the true story of the
bitter but hopeless fight for
freedom by the people of
Hungary is told in a special
40-page condensation of the
book, “The Bridge at Andau,”
by James Michener. His on-
the-spot account of the heroic
things that happened behind
the barricades of Budapest is
of vital interest to you.
Also in April Reader’s Digest
are many other absorbing
articles condensed from lead-
ing magazines and books to
save you time. Enjoy Reader’s
Digest — only 2/- from all
newsagents and bookstalls.
country by confiscatory taxa-
tion.
“It is part of the same evil
that the rich men who have
not yet migrated are living on
their capital, and this capital is
being spent either by them or
by the State to meet current
expenditure. Such expenditure
is purely inflationary.
“Are not all these contri-
butory factors to the post-war
weakness of sterling? And if
a stable currency is not going
to be maintained, what right
have we to ask anyone to invest
in Government securities?
“Another result of over-
taxation is the number of able
men who can no longer afford
to undertake voluntary work.
In the past they performed the
greater part of local and
Parliamentary government. The
same forces are seen at work
when people advise their sons
not to go into the Services.
“Further, there are the very
many people who refuse work
because they feel that, if they
accepted it, the State would
take an unfair share of their
earnings. This goes right
through all industry, from the
wage-earner, who no longer
wishes to work overtime, to the
leaders of industry who refuse
extra responsibility. Why
indeed should they work with
both hands when they can
earn with their left hand all
the Government will f’low
them to keep?
“Is it not clear that the whole
economy and life of the nation
are being warped and crippled
by excessive taxation? If this
is so, is it not the duty of all
responsible politicians to
explain to the public that if
we are to survive as a free
country we must cut our coat
according to our cloth?
“The British people are quite
intelligent enough to appre-
ciate the truth of this platitude,
and to support the men who
proclaim it.”
Seato
Three views on the South-
east Asia Treaty Organisa-
tion :
London “Daily Telegraph ” .*
“Just as Communist forces
were closing in on Dienbien-
phu, two-and-a-half years ago,
President Eisenhower likened
South-east Asia to a row of
dominoes. If one piece should
fall, he warned, the whole row
would fall. Indo-China did
fall, but so far the rest of South-
east Asia has remained stand-
London “New Statesman”
“DAMMIT—A BRITISH STAG LOVES BEING HUNTED,
WHAT!”
Vicky’s view of the Macmillan Government’s run of disappointments in
British by-eleciions.
ing. Apart from a few off-
shore islands in the Formosa
Straits and a few square-miles
of territory on the disputed
China-Burma border, Peking
has not seen fit to swallow-up
any of the other weak and
tempting areas that lie within
reach.
“At least some of the credit
for this successful but un-
expected containment of Com-
munist China must go to the
South-east Asia Treaty Organ-
isation. As an emergency
arrangement, designed to stem
Communist aggression at its
flood-tide, Seato has proved
its value.”
The same : “Although China
seems quiescent for the time
being, perhaps for internal
reasons, the need for a military
shield in the area is still as great
as ever. None of the three
Asian members of the alliance,
Pakistan, Siam and the Philip-
pines, is capable of defending
herself alone. The same, of
course, is true of the Asian
countries outside the alliance.
The only instrument that
commits American power to
this military vacuum is Seato.”
* # *
London “Economist”: “Seato
is not, and is never likely to
be, a military alliance on the
lines of Nato, although its
members are making some
efforts to improve their military
co-ordination by setting up a
permanent planning-staff in
Bangkok, and by making
arrangements for a new
combined excercise (the last
one, militarily and diplomati-
cally, was not an unqualified
success). Seato’s armed strength
comes from the United States,
and Mr. Dulles was really
patting himself on the back
when he told members that the
organisation ‘is an effective
force against aggression.’ ”
** - *
Hamilton Kerr, M.P., in
London “Time and Tide” : “We
must ask ourselves if armed
deterrents will prove sufficient
over a period of years. Will the
appeal of Communism be held
in check indefinitely by the
presence of American bomber
and naval task-forces? I do
not think so, for however
strong the defences other
sectors of the front will tend
to crumble.
“To the gentle and tolerant
Buddhists the doctrines of
Communism, with its emphasis
on the class-war, must appear
odious, but the new spirit of
nationalism dominates the
whole of Asia. The personalities
of Mr. Mao-Tse-tung and Mr.
Chou En-lai exercise their
fascination men of Asiatic
stock who have become world-
figures. I myself saw the
tremendous preparations in
Cambodia to receive Mr.
Chou En-lai.
“Therefore, while providing
defence, the shield of Seato
must at the same time give the
new nations time to consolidate
their economies and an oppor-
tunity for new leaders to
emerge—men who can convince
their followers that they offer
a better way of life than the
Communists.
“Mr. Menzies possesses the
experience and the imagination
to grasp this fact. I read with
pleasure his words at the
opening of the conference:
‘Security is not an end in itself.
What comes after is social,
economic and political develop-
ment and development of the
full individual resources of all
people.’
“If Seato pursues this ideal,
however weak its resources at
the moment, it may yet save
South-east Asia from becoming
a satellite-area of the Com-
munist Empire.”
World Shipping Boom
In 1956, the year in which
Japan took-over from Britain
as the world’s leading ship-
builder, Nippon launched
1,748,000 gross tons of mer-
chant -shipping, Britain
1,383,000 tons and Germany
1,000,000 tons.
It would, however, “New
York Times” comments, “be
premature to interpret these
figures as indicating the moi
or-iess permanent emergence
of Japan as the leading maii-
time nation or even the lead-
ing shipbuilding nation”:
“On the evidence to date the
explanation of that country’s
sudden rise of importance in
this area is predominantly only
one aspect of a world-shortage
of merchant-shipping, a short-
age so great that demand has
overflowed the production-
capacity of the countries that
we customarily associate with
the building of shipping-
tonnage.
“Three principal factors have
contributed immediately to the
upthrust of Japan into its lead-
ing position as a shipbuilder.
One is the boom in ship-
building; the second is the
increase in size of the
individual unit (the result of


Well worth
looking at
l
W*
&
'
I
H
a
■
' $'
■
; C
■
Mi
Even a quick glance at yourself in a mirror will
show you that the Stamina Single Breasted Suit
you’re wearing has given you a lift.
There’s a new smartness about you. We call it
good grooming ... and here’s good grooming that
stays good looking throughout the hottest days.
This is no ordinary suit. It’s made from Crusader
pure wool cloth, which automatically freshens
itself on the hanger, overnight. Wrinkles dis-
appear; and every morning you have a newly-
pressed appearance that lasts all day.
CLOTHES
m
5A.113
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
which is that a comparatively
small number of ships can pro-
duce a very large tonnage);
the third is that when the
present boom began, ship-
building costs were about $3OO
a ton in the United States and
at that time they were only
$2OO in Europe, and in Japan
about $130.”
On the same subject, London
“Financial Times” adds that
“in the current sellers’ market
in shipbuilding, basic prices
mean very little”:
“It is, in fact, delivery-date
rather than basic cost that sells
shipyard-space today. For
delivery-dates the U.K. is in a
worse position than any other
shipbuilding country. As other
nations’ yards become more
and more heavily booked the
differences in delivery-dates
are gradually evening-out, but
significant differentials still
occur today.
“Delivery-dates are shortest
in the high-cost U.S. and
Canada, where 1959-60 delivery
can still be obtained. On the
continent of Europe (except
Germany) normal delivery-
dates are now 1961-62, although
‘speculative’ offers of i 960 and
even 1959 can sometimes be
obtained.
“Japanese dates are slightly
better, but not by many
months. In Germany delivery
is worse than anywhere out-
side the U.K., with current
contracts being signed for
1963-64, compared with an
average or 1964 in the U.K.”
Atomic Exchanges
Edinburgh “Scotsman” com-
ment on the “puzzling history
of British-American attempts
to exchange atomic informa-
tion” :
“Over the years America
has fought shy of giving
Britain information until at
some point Britain showed
signs of having something
America did not have.
Approaches from America,
then, are useful indicators of
British progress.
“Few people here would be
inclined to blame the British
Government for keeping a
card or two up its sleeve, con-
sidering the history of these
tight-lipped ‘exchanges.’
“But what a useless duplica-
tion of effort for the Western
world as a whole! Can we
hope for better things in
future? Perhaps the best
arrangement would be a
planned division of efforts,
cutting out the element of
commercial rivalry in the same
field.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Comics
A teacher of a post-primary
class was trying to rouse its
interest in the ballad form. He
wasn’t doing very well until
he came to the story of “Robin
Hood and Allan-a-Dale.”
There was a sudden scuffle
from one of the class, a swift
movement under the desk and
there appeared a gaudy poly-
chrome labelled “Robin
Hood.”
After that there was no
trouble. Teacher and class
gathered the simple plot from
the comic, after which the
class endured with less than
their usual apathy its trans-
literation into the poetic form
of the 16th century.
Time was when such tactics
would have been frowned on
by teachers because they feared
the competition of a brighter
form of entertainment than
they could afford or were
capable of offering. The good
“ Watermelons !”
teacher today accepts the
challenge and does what he
can to compete by using the
enemy’s own weapons—wire-
less, films, comics and now
TV.
After all, the ballad itself
was the 14th-century equivalent
of the comic. It had to wait
300 years for Bishop Percy to
make it respectable, but we
move at such a pace now that
it may be much less than that
time before the comic becomes
a subject for intellectual dis-
cussion and, finally, a Subject,
with capital letter, for examina-
tion in schools. —L.H. (W.A.).
Rents
It is generally assumed that
landlords in N. S. Wales are
getting it in the neck, but some
are doing quite well, thank you.
Owning a score of rented
premises in North Sydney I
was once a member of the less-
lucky group. My property was
all old, in fair repair and close
tc shops and transport. There
were reasonable “conveni-
ences,” though these were not
nearly up to modern standards.
Rents ranged from 17s. a
week for residences with one
bedroom, to a top 325. for
those with three. Repairs and
rates ate-up. a large portion of
the meagre returns. No doubt
these rents could have been
jacked-up a little through an
application to tire court, but in
such event extensive repairs
and renovations are frequently
ordered as a condition of the
increase. In view of the
I got but of the
business as fast as I could,
though not before I learned a
thing or two.
In particular, I noted that
sub-tenants generally were on
an extraordinarily tough
wicket as compared with
tenants. Residentials are, of
course, a kind of business and
subject to some sort of control,
out when a single room is let
as a sideline the sky seems to
be the limit. Maybe such
solitary sub-tenants are
hypnotised by the scraps of
furniture that are usually
included, but more likely they
are aware that the landlord —
or, more likely, landlady—on
the spot, is in a position to
make things hot in the event of
rebellion.
Service is, of course, a
blessed word to rent-racketeers.
There are no doubt thousands
of fiats in which service is a
legitimate charge. There are
others in which the service con-
sists in sweeping the dirt under
the beds once a week.
Another thing: the exemp-
tion of certain holiday-lettings
from rent-control may be
justified on the grounds that
some holiday-resorts are in
out-of-the-way places where, if
high rents weren’t permitted,
no one would go to the trouble
of providing accommodation
for the casual visit. Moreover,
so far as populous city beach-
suburbs are concerned, some
strong inducement must be
offered householders to make
space available for the hordes
of pleasure-seekers who arrive
ir. season.
Unfortunately some people
have abused their open-go.
Little research would be
required to find premises round
Sydney beach-suburbs that are
always let, always paying
holiday-rates, yet only some-
times occupied by holiday-
makers.—T.J. (N.S.W.).
Homes For the Aged
There's sense in “E.V.A.’s”
suggestion (B. 13/3/’57) that
retired men and women with
“anything up to £lOOO stacked
away” mignt join iorces and
buy a large, old home near
Sydney ana equip it as a com-
munity hostel, it’s not much
fun everlastingly diving into
your bit of capital for the
privilege of existing in an
unsatisiactory room or cheap
boarding-house, and there’s
certainly no sense in aged and
partially disabled folk putting
down practically all they
possess as a deposit on a house
when they’d seidom be in the
position to meet the interest.
Many old people with less
than tiOOO woula be pieased
enough to part with £4OO, £5OO
or £boo if it got them reason-
ably comiortable premises for
as long as they needed them.
They could ao for themselves
or contribute a few pounds per
week in return for simple
meals. Those who, after a trial,
wished to look for other
accommoaation could have
their money returned, less a
previously agreed-upon sum as
rent for the time they were.
there.
No doubt the satisfied ones
would never expect the return
of the money they’d sunk in the
venture. If they lived in the
place for six or seven years
they’d have received good
value, though my point is that
the original sum invested
would provide them with a
ioof over their heads for life
or for as long as they happen
to need it.
Provided the scheme could
be established on a sound legal
basis, I, for one, would be
happy to wave goodbye to
£5OO or £6OO in return for a
comfortable room for the
remainder of my days. —-
Maitri (N.S.W.).
“E.V.A.’s” suggestion (B.
13/3/’57) that pensioners pool
their finances to buy-up large
homes and run them as “com-
munity” efforts has much
merit, because if homes in
residential areas were used the
scheme would not suffer from
the major disadvantage of most
of our current and projected
schemes.
Present overseas medical and
social opinion is strongiy
against our method of setting-
up pockets of elderly people in


YOU CAN LEARN
SHORTHAND
IN TWO HOURS
In a few short hours you can be an expert shorthand writer!
Guaranteed Miracle Method the sensational Shorthand System that
swept America, enables men and women of all ages and all walks
of life to gain better positions and more pay.
The Quickest, most Inexpensive system ever devised
You benefit immediately with Miracle Method—no old-fashioned
symbols to learn. Uses simple converted longhand which you
already know! We GUARANTEE you will write good shorthand
in two hours and 120 w.p.m. in fifteen hours! Full details can
be yours FREE and without obligation. WRITE NOW TO:—
Dept. 81, MIRACLE METHOD SHORTHAND,
Box 155, P. 0., North Sydney.
thinly-populated areas, where
they are virtually enclosed by
the environment of the
establishment in which they
live. Moreover, even the
names of some of these places
are enough to knock five years
off the lives of sensitive
people.
The answer, according to the
experts, is to “scatter” these
people throughout the com-
munity, a system said to have
many advantages from the
emotional viewpoint, and one
which would appear to be com-
patible with “E.V.A.’s”
concept. — Kemberry (A.C.T.),
Traveller in the U.S.A.
In the lobby of the Depart-
ment of Commerce building in
Washington there stands a
machine that calculates popu-
lation. It shows some startling
figures. It registers one birth
every eight seconds, one death
every 21 seconds, the arrival
of one new immigrant every
two minutes, and the departure
of one new immigrant every
24 minutes. This adds up to
one new addition to the popu-
lation every 12 seconds.
In May, 1955, this popula-
tion indicator passed
165,000,000. In March 1, 1956,
it was 167,118,000. The popu-
lation increase between 1940
and 1950 was approximately
19-million, the greatest increase
in any decade of American
history. It is estimated that by
1975 the nation’s population
will number between 200-
million and 220-million.
Churches, which are study-
ing this problem, came up with
equally staggering figures.
Assuming the present ratio of
church-members to population,
which runs now at about 60
per cent., and assuming each
congregation will have 300
members, it means that 105,000
new churches will have to be
built between 1950 and 1975.
Allowing $75,000 for land and
building this will mean an
investment of $7875 million.
The Fund for the Advance-
ment of Education reported
that the enrolment in elemen-
tary schools will increase 28
per cent, between 1954 and
1960. The enrolment in
secondary schools will increase
by 71 per cent. College-
enrolments will increase be-
tween 100 per cent, and 200
per cent. All educators are
dismayed by the enormity of
the problems facing them.
Schools are already over-
crowded and the peak-load
has not yet arrived.
America is on the move.
This fact also strikes the
“Drink to me only with thine eyes !"
traveller. The American popu-
lation is increasingly mobile.
Nobody knows for sure how
mobile the American popula-
tion has become. A rough
guess is that 20 per cent, of
the population moves each
year. Over half the people
moved their place of residence
during the decade of the 1940’5.
Mobility has become more
than the physical fact of move-
ment. It is now a state of
mind. People are psychologi-
cally receptive to movement.
They own big, shiny cars in
which to do it. On some super-
highways it is possible to go
hundreds of miles without
changing gears or slowing-
down. Ties to the place of
birth, the home, the land, or
the old home-town, no longer
dominate most people. If you
are in America you take move
for granted.
Mobility produces an
unequal distribution of popu-
lation. Places like California,
the North-west, Arizona and
Florida are growing out of all
proportion to general popula-
tion-increase. Other areas are
being depleted. Some mid-
western States actually lost
population.
Another problem produced
by mobility is the loss of
interest in community affairs.
What can you do to build
tradition when membership is
fluid? Most organisations
have a membership that is
“here today and gone to-
morrow.” How do you plan
for the future when nobody
expects to be there in five or
ten years? How do you secure
enthusiastic and generous con-
tributions to charitable organi-
sations from people who have
little sense of community?
These are the questions that
strike at the heart of American
democracy.
More working-women! The
traveller is impressed by the
number of working-wives in
the United States. They have
increased from 1,920,281 in
1900 to 7,678,000 in 1950. To-
day women invade every field
of activity. They are engaged
in business and industry.
People interested in adult-
education are now seeing that
the working-woman is a
different creature from a house-
wife. She has different needs,
a different attitude to life and
a different time-schedule. Pro-
grammes are now being
arranged to cater for her needs.
More leisure! America is
a machine-dominated civilisa-
tion. It brought the working-
man an eight-hour day and a
40-hour week. At the moment
a second industrial revolution
is taking place. In the first,
machines took the place of
human muscle ; in this one the
machine is taking the place of
the human brain. Automatic
equipment, instructed by
recording-tape, will process
materials, assemble parts,
correct errors, and inspect the
finished product without using
the human workman.
The Ford company in Cleve-
land, Ohio, has a plant in
which engine-blocks are made
{Continued .on next page)


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
m
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
{lncorporated in the British Colony of Hong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6*B O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BW 81 3 I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL. Manager.
almost completely by auto-
mation. Where it once took
nine hours to complete a job,
it now takes 15 minutes. The
factory has everything but men
in it.
This is happening all over
the world. It can only mean
one thing: shorter hours.
Union leaders predict a 30-hour
week within 10 years.
What modern America faces
is not “more of the past,” but
a future full of challenge and
achievement beyond anything
their forebears dreamed of. —
D. G. McK. (U.S.A.).
Courts-martial
“M.S.N.” (B. 6/3/’.57) is
astray in his remarks concern-
ing defence counsel in Aus-
tralian courts-martial, although
1 agree that the Rules of Pro-
cedure need amending.
In Australia, a soldier
charged before a court-martial
may have his defence handled
by a “prisoner’s friend” —
always an officer —if he so
requests. On the other hand,
if his finances allow, he may
brief a civilian counsel to
appear for him. 1 have
attended several courts where a
prisoner has been successfully
defended by a civilian barrister
instructed by civilian solicitors.
Officers are regarded as
eligible to conduct a defence,
presumably because they have
some knowledge at least of the
acts and orders which con-
stitute military law.
I once saw a company com-
mander, without any legal
training, bring off a brilliant
acquittal of a prisoner who was
charged with having kicked an
n.c.o. while being escorted to
the guard-room.
The “prisoner’s friend” sub-
mitted, with ample authorities,
that the n.c.o. had invited the
assault by placing himself
within range of the prisoner—
a breach of the regulations.
The most unjust aspect of a
court-martial is the taking of
a summary of evidence —
equivalent to a civilian lower-
court hearing—in which the
prisoner is obliged to give a
signed statement of his side of
the offence, thus disclosing his
defence. In civil procedure he
would merely plead not guilty
and reserve his defence. Also
he may not be provided with a
copy of the Army Acts to con-
sider a defence. — Sparks (Q.).
“Kemberry” (B. 20/ 3/ ’57) is
not quite fair in his criticism
of 2nd A.I.F. courts-martial.
He omits to point out that
however unsuitable the presi-
dent of the court might be, he
was, except on some F.G.C.M.s,
under the guidance, as regards
procedure, of a judge-advocate,
a legally qualified officer. His
presence avoided the farcical
procedure which I saw followed
in several courts-martial in
First A.I.F.
In the Middle East during
World War 11, I attended over
100 courts-martial, chiefly as
prosecuting- or defending-
officer, In most cases the
accused had a much better
trot than he would have had
in a police-court.
As regards providing the
accused with counsel I do not
recall any case in the Middle
East where a legally qualified
defending-officer was not found
if the convening authority
thought the charge sufficiently
serious to warrant the appoint-
ment of a legal-staff corps-
officer as prosecutor.
On the other hand, and with-
out any legal qualifications, I
more than once prosecuted
when the accused had a
legally qualified defending-
officer.— Smithy (N.S.W.)
Drink and Crime
What the non-drinker like
myself says or thinks about
the widespread preference for
hard liquor is commonly
ignored as the biased opinion
of a “wowser,” but when men
in prominent public life express
themselves forcibly on the
subject it is surely time to take
stock of the situation.
Victoria’s Director of
Mental Hygiene (Dr. Cunning-
ham Dax), for instance, said
lately that alcoholism was
responsible for about 40 per
cent, of male patients in
mental hospitals. And the
relation of drink to crime was
the subject of some pointed
remarks the other day by no
less a person than Mr. Justice
Sholl.
Speaking at the opening of
the legal-year ceremony in the
Supreme Court at Bendigo,
his Honor quoted Dr. Dax’s
statement, then added:
“I am prepared to say that
probably 60 to 70 per cent, of
all crime is due to alcohol, and
probably 80 to 85 per cent, of
all divorces.”
His Honor made it clear that
he was not attempting to belittle
the youth of Australia ; in fact,
he thought that the younger
generation was better than the
previous one. But he expressed
himself as seriously concerned
by “the almost pathological
indulgence in alcohol on the
part not only of men but of
some women.”
One way and another, liquor-
interests get a pretty good
press in this country. The
voices raised in favor of drink-
ing as a social custom, harmless '
except in rare instances of
excess, are heard far more
frequently than those of
temperance advocates, whose
views are suspect.
But the words of a renowned
psychiatrist and a Supreme
Court judge on the relation
between drink and insanity
and crime are too authoritative
to be brushed lightly aside. —
Doynest (Vic.).
British Migrants
“Yakipan” cannot be serious
when he contends the average
British standard of living is
higher than that of Australia
(B. 6/3/’57).
In the last few years I’ve
met a large number of British
migrant families and they’ve
admitted frankly that our
standard of living is far
superior to that of their home-
land. At the same time, most
of them have complained un-
ceasingly about Australia and
Australians.
In my view, one of the
troubles of the British migrant
is that the average Australian
doesn’t take him seriously
enough. Most of them come
to Australia with the idea that
we’re “just colonials” and
should therefore regard them
with awe. This attitude
naturally gets the average
Aussie’s back up.
It takes considerable courage
to set out for a new and
strange country, and the British
migrants are to be commended
for it, but having made their
decision they should be pre-
pared to settle down in Aus-
tralia and to the Australian
way of life —and to learn that
the Australian does not regard
them as better than himself, or
any worse. British migrants
are preferable to migrants from
other countries, but their com-
plaining and arrogance make
them unpopular among Aus-
tralians.
As for our empty spaces, we
cannot expect migrants of any
kind to settle in the outback
when we are not prepared to
do so ourselves. — Sparks (Q.).
Victorian Hospitals
In Victoria, general-hospital
maintenance alone costs about
£ll million, while mental
hospitals need another £9
million. Other State health-
services, together with £5
million for capital works, bring
the annual total for all such
purposes to about £2B million.
When the Cain Government
induced a long-established
lottery to cross Bass Strait and
make its headquarters in Mel-
bourne a few years back, the
move was excused, or justified,
on the ground that revenue
would be earmarked by the
State for hospitals and that it
would substantially alleviate
the burden on the taxpayer.
Actually, the lottery has
brought the State only £3
million a year and revenue
from this source is not increas-
ing nearly as fast as hospital
commitments.
The present Government is
not particularly keen on
lotteries as an instrument of
State finance; on the other
hand, it doesn’t seem to have


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD JAMES MOORE late of
Marrar.—T ARE NOTICE that
VALERIE DORIS MOORE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 898 of 1956
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st day of May 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. .. .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
“Same principle as a yo-yo—while you're down there
just grab the tools We forgot”
any clear notions on how hos-
pitals can be maintained and
built, short of extracting more
money from the Federal
Treasury. Which amounts to
the fact that the Victorian
Government is unwilling to
make the community face-up
to its obvious responsibilities.
Most people will admit that
hospital costs have to be borne
by the community in general.
Other States and other
countries have solved their
hospital-finance problem with-
out recourse to lotteries, and
Victoria would be equally cap-
able of doing so if it made up
its mind to tackle the job in
earnest. — Ardoyne (Vic.).
On £lB a Week
I hope that rumors of cuts in
personal income-tax materialise
into some relief for the most
harshly treated section of tax-
payers: married couples rear-
ing families on £lB, and less,
per week.
Consider the case of a family
of four —man, wife and two
children under 15. Since 1950
the basic wage has risen from
£8 ss. to £l3 10s., an increase
of 64 per cent. In 1950 the
endowment to this family was
£3 per month. It is still £3 ;
to maintain purchasing-power
it should be £4 18s.
Then, there is the matter of
lax-rebates to family-groups.
In 1953 the taxpayer under
review could claim a rebate of
£260 for his wife and children
He can still claim only £260,
whereas if the basic-wage
increases were allowed for he
should be entitled to a rebate
of £289.
To comfortably-off sections
of the community these might
be trivial items, but to people
in the lower-income brackets
they make a tough struggle
tougher. Taxation, direct and
indirect, bears very heavily on
families in the lower-income
groups and a new deal for
them is years overdue.
To feed and clothe growing
children on £lB a week tests
the self-sacrifice of parents.
Complicate the position by sick-
ness or unemployment and the
task becomes a nightmare.—
Jeremiad (N.S.W.),
Parliamentary Broadcasts
As a hardened listener to
Parliamentary broadcasts
(B. 13/3/’57), I cannot blame
the newspapers for giving only
short reports of members’
speeches.
In 1947, when the broad-
casts were first introduced,
there was at least an attempt to
keep to the subject under
debate. Today our representa-
tives seem to think that each
and every speech must be an
electioneering sally.
Possibly more rigid rules are
needed now that Parliament is
wired for sound; possibly
members need more days off
the air, when they can work off
their spleen—as do the Reps,
when the Senate is on. The
only salutary treatment might
be to make up one of those
popular surveys and confront
our politicians with the hard
fact that, though they are
confident they have an Aus-
tralia-wide audience, the
meanest early - morning
announcer has a larger per-
sonal following. Suburbia
(N.S.W.).
Fluoride
“Kemberry” (B. 13/3/’57)
need not go to the United States
tor examples of the benefit of
fluoride in drinking-water.
As a youngster I lived at
Julia Creek (Q.), where the
percentage of fluoride in the
water is very high. Any
citizen of that town can vouch
for the effect of fluoride on
their teeth. I’ve met many
dentists in many places and
they all tell the same story:
people of my age have
normally lost from two to five
of their adult teeth, if not more,
whereas I have lost only one,
and that by accident. Residents
of Julia Creek, or people who
spent their childhood there,
have had the same good
results.
Being interested in the
matter, I have taken a keen
interest in the teeth of
children in primary schools
where I have taught, and I
found that the average child
of 13 was paying at least one
visit to the dentist a year to
have a tooth filled or extracted.
The amount of work done by
school-dentists on their annual
visits was alarming.
Doctors now advise giving
children from the age of one
year a small daily quantity of
black tea, which also contains
fluoride. Milk added to the
tea changes it chemically to
calcium-fluoride, which is, I
understand, a milk and non-
beneficial poisonous substance.
The critical period for the
effect of fluoride on teeth is
between one and seven years,
while the adult teeth are form-
ing in the jaws. Surely chemists
should be able to produce a
liquid or tablet which would
contain the correct percentage
of fluoride for individual
requirements.—Roni (Q.).


him, cut at him. Little was a
vicious cut, cissy a vicious cut
—one on each cheek of his
heart. The cheeks of his face
reflected these bitter assaults ;
he felt the redness of aggrieved
and blazing flesh.
Therefore, moveless, patient,
he waited until he was sure the
color had waned, until his
heart had faded cool and
stringent again. Then, even
while the tram exhaled terror
and groaned with fear in the
spcok-riddled hills, he rose
silently ; decorously sat up.
When the snap of the
spectacle-case struck apart the
two enfolded bodies, he was
silting erect, curls lidded down
under the cap, rug across knees,
face blank. He was polishing
his spectacles.
“Oh,” cried the woman, as
though someone had spat on
her.
The man, surprised, glanced
at her, then returned his gaze
to the boy and acted a grin
too chummily. He was the sort
of man who would wear a
ready-made bow-tie, and he
wore one. It was speckled, and
matched his nylon sockettes.
The boy went on polishing;
the train clambered more
desperately.
CONFUSED, dismayed,
watching, the woman
heard the man’s voice:
“Well! And how far are
you travelling, son?”
Now, this time, she had no
doubt about the revealed, the
naked eyes; they condemned
intrusion; the incisive voice
replied with callous politeness:
“I am travelling from the
city right through to the ter-
min-us.”
Her veins ran cold; this
scene had been rehearsed; a
nightmare was being dreamed
into reality.
“Well!” said the man, and
he touched his little bow with
poise, with great poise. “Well,
well! Right to the terminus.”
Stop, stop; she suffered, she
agonised. Stop. Say no more.
Yet she said nothing, sat with
her sap stilled and stagnant
heard the dangerous sentence
through to its end:
“Well, now! Long trip, eh?
Long trip for a little chap!”
The boy replaced the polish-
ing-handkerchief in his pocket
before he said, with the
chilled boredom of a priest
weary of exegesis and embit-
tered by its futility:
“I am thirteen years and” —
“Please, dear,” the woman
said quickly placing her
rosy dimpled hand how
heavily! how dead!— on the
man’s sleeve. Oh, the man was
shrewd, very. Though
astonished at her, he caught on
immediately:
“Thirteen!” he said heartily
“Imagine me! 1 thought you
were oider—fifteen at least
Well, well!”
The boy: moveless. Coulc
eyes sneer? Nothing said
What could he say?
“Well! ” said the man. “Well
I’d better be toddling. I’c
better be saying nightie-night.’
He pressed down on his thick
thighs, pushed himself upright
said, “We-e-ell, goodnight.”
This was to the woman ; it
was said actorishly enough
regret, intimations of fun-to-
come and I’ll-get-in-touch
saturated it. He shd the door
open, tossed a man-to-man
grin at the boy and a “Good-
night.”
The boy had on his spec-
tacles now; he stood and
reached to the rack for his
book.; his back to them, he
said with saxaphone clarity:
“Good-night, Mr. Paget.”
A T that moment the train
reached the crest of the
hills, and screamed long and
exultantly. Behind it lay the
songless slopes and undis-
covered caverns, the city, and
the locked hotel-room, and
furtive consummation. The
train, ripping open its jewelled
breast, continued to crow
while the transfixed man and
woman eyed each other.
The machine’s jubilation
ceased; it began to hasten
downhill ; the man, stuck at
the door with his pussycat
bow, said to the boy reading
the book:
“Well! So you know me!”
“Certainly, Mr. Paget. I’ve
seen you at your Contempor-
ary Empor-i-um.”
“Well, fancy that, now.” The
man felt vaguely flattered.
The woman, her gestures
over-sure and prolonged, as if
she were on the stage, lit a
cigarette. The boy read.
Inspired—oh, his head was
well screwed on —the man
winked at her, tipped her a
wink. - Watch this, honey, it
meant.
“Weil, old man” —he began.
The boy regarded him with
gleaming dispassion.
“I wonder if you would do
me a favor. I’m —I’m playing
cards in another compartment.
You seem an intelligent type.
How about keeping an eye on
Mrs. Paget here for me, eh?
Can’t leave the weaker sex
untended, eh? And look
here” . . .
He knew he had the situation
in hand. Always had it in
hand how else build up
Contemporary Emporiums,
own a motor-launch and a
yacht? He had opened his
wallet, was fingering, was dis-
playing, a ten-shilling note.
“Look here, as bloke to
bloke, you won’t be affronted
by some expression of grati-
tude ; a little something to buy
a...a . . .”
“Book! A nice French
book,” said the woman, reck-
lessly showing her golden
fangs.
After consideration, the boy
answered, “This book cost
thirteen shillings. Thirteen,” he
repeated.
Squinting slightly, the man
replaced the ten-shilling note
and handed over a pound.
“I am very grateful, Mr.
Paget,” said the boy. “I shall
buy a Chekhov.”
But he did not smile. Nor
did he look at the man again
and, by the time he had folded
the note and put it in a small
purse and the purse in an inner
pocket, the door was closed,
the amused man had gone, the
woman lolled smoking. The
. Italians were now quarrelling ;
the train, bold again, roared
brassily and flaunted its brassy
lungs as it hurtled downhill,
downhill through the night.
The boy was plunged in his
pages of sins and stupidities,
and spoke only twice in the
next two hours, politely, ritual-
istically, dutifully:
“Are you quite all right?”
Twice, in answer, the woman
showed her gold-measled teeth
calmly, offhandedly, for she
could see now that the pur-
chased boy was nothing more
than a boy, harmless, a silly
little thing, a lah-di-dah sook.
CO, at peace, they reached the
terminus, they descended
from the contentedly hissing
train.
The woman went along the
platform to the luggage-van
but, “Darling!” and “Darling!
Daddy’s getting your luggage,
darling,” sang tfte boy’s motner,
sprinkling his face with
expensive lipstick and gin-
sweet kisses.
She was gay, gay ; the pla
form astir with ner glitterin
friends: “We’re in the mids;
of a lovely party, darlin
Aren’t we in the midst of
lovely party?” she cried t
everyone. “Maxie’s come t
meet you, and Roddie, anc
Mary, and dear Auntie Lai . .
where is Lai, Bobsie . . .? anc
. . . oh, it’s wonderful to hav
my enormous son horn
again! ”
“Don’t be awesome
Mummy.” he said, becaus
that was what boys said.
But he smiled around at th
cigarette-smoking and elatec
group in a way that he knew
seemed shy and charming
the same time.
His mother was as restless a
a diamond. “I wish Dadd
would hurry with your things,
she called. “Be a sweet, Davie
—go and see what he’s doing
He’s utterly tipsy. Go.”
Then she said, sweetl
dazzling, to the boy. “Did you
have a nice trip? You
weren’t” —her voice paled anc
abated —“you weren’t in the
same compartment as those
. . . She meant the Italians,
group of short, squat men reel
ing by in vaudeville-stripec
suits of crumpled shoddy—un-
singing now, sullen in a nimbus
of garlic.
“ No, Mummy, I travellec
with that Miss Morrison. You
know. She’s awesome. She
said I was” . . .
“Morrison, darling?
Morrison? Not our village
Melba!” And she began to
laugh, and all the others
laughed, scintillating like
chandeliers. “How wonder-
ful!” they all cried. “How
wonderful!”
“She’s awesome, though. She
had the nerve to say I was” . . .
“Hist!” said someone. “For
Gawd’s sake —the Morrison
approaches.”
As the woman, the flowery
one, the appeased and velvety,
approached from the luggage-
van, the group at the plat-
form were very, very occupied
with gaiety. There was much
din. She . saw the boy stand-
ing neatly in front of the
revellers, and she smiled her
gold-stained smile at him, and
the din seemed to increase. But
he cut it to the ground, reaped
its jingling stalks to silence,
with his soaring, faultless voice.
“Good-night, Mrs. Paget,”
he cried from his cold blank
face; and higher and more
clearly in the silence, “Good-
night, Mrs. Pag-et.”
RAIN
So, when rain is falling
As one long sound on night,
Slow, yet webbed with purling,
l think the world all right.
This may be my devising,
And may be false, or such.
Kiss, though; it’s surprising
How love and rain are much
And more alike the longer
You lie within their sound,
And feel the purling stronger
And by its web are bound.
QLD.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—»
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
insure w.th the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED JST..
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney
All Classes .Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Clfrins Promptly l and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
—really a partition of ply-
wood—and we found seats.
We told him we wanted to do
an article, a few drawings.
He was courteous, helpful;
perhaps unimpressed. He had
met many newspapermen, been
interviewed often. He was
good enough to tell me he
remembered me; but not, I
think, very well. Which was
entirely natural. But I could
remember him well —all sorts
of things, including his urbane
way of handling newspaper-
men, one ear cocked for other
sounds ; as it was now.
He hadn’t changed much.
Strong-boned, fighting face,
jaw like a rock, rather small
blue eyes, usually with a
twinkle, deep-set as a fighter’s
e>es should be, with the tiny
scars around them moulded
into wrinkles, nose slightly
askew.
Jack isn’t exactly ashamed
of that nose —he draws atten-
tion to it himself —but he isn’t
proud of it. He sees no virtue
in being hit.
Except for this, and the
almost invisible scars, his face
is marked only by the years and
character; and perhaps the
nose, deviated by one he didn’t
see, makes a subtle sort of
comment.
Dunleavy will be 67 in
November this year, but he
hardly looks it. Plis fighting-
v. eight, I learn from Jack
Read’s book of records, was
9st. 41b. He’s around lOst. now.
He came from North
Sydney, went to the Marist
Brothers’ school there until he
was 13, then went to work in
his father’s bakery. He was
taught by Billy Dibley, who
had a gymnasium in Oxford-
streft and was, Jack says, a
very good teacher.
Jack began fighting pro-
fessionally around 1909, and
had his last fight in 1918.
Comments on some of these
are pasted in his scrapbook.
He referred to them as “my
own little fights.” The big
fights came later.
But he was fast and clever,
although, as he said, “I couldn’t
knock them out.” He was in
demand as a sparring-partner
for heavier men: in one such
engagement he broke his hand
on Dave Smith’s jaw, and had
hand-trouble from then until
his retirement.
Snowy Baker offered him a
fiver to spai with the American
Milburn Saylor, a terrific
puncher who couldn’t, or
wouldn’t, pull his punches in
the gymnasium, and the papers
wrote-up the spar as though it
had been a fight.
Glancing over these con-
temporary accounts, the
general opinion was that Dun-
leavy made a fool of the cele-
brated visitor, but would be
unwise to repeat the experi-
ment. One of Saylor’s punches
might land.
Not long afterwards, Saylor
knocked-out the lightweight
champion, Hughie Mehegan.
Another exhibition bout, with
Fritz Holland, is in the book.
Fritz was a different type, and
made it a game of skill. There
could be no question of a
serious contest, of course,
between one of the best middle-
weights in the world and a lad
who was, at that stage, only a
promising lightweight.
Dunleavy went to America,
had 44 fights and only one
defeat, on points.
Checking-up on that visit,
the clippings from the San
Francisco “Bulletin,” the St.
Paul “Daily News” and the
like grow bigger and better.
There are more photographs
of Dunleavy, captioned
“Flashy Lightweight,” “Scien-
tific Kangaroo,” and so on.
One promoter, Jack relates,
billed him as “Melbourne Cup
Winner.” The Sydney “Sports-
man” published a leader which
began:—
It must be pleasant news for the
friends of that popular boxer, Jack
Dunleavy, to learn of his great
successes in America. Reports to
hand show that his career in
California has been one triumphal
and victorious march, and that
today he is acclaimed as' one of
the greatest boxers Australia ever
sent to America . . .
It goes on to point out that
in Australia Dunleavy had
difficulty getting fights, with
the obvious moral of neglect
of local talent. Had Dunleavy
had the good fortune to be
born an American, the article
concludes, “long before this we
would have heard of ‘Dare-
devil Dunleavy,’ who was
being brought out here for
five fights at the cost of a
prince’s ransom.”
W. F. Corbett’s column in
“The- Referee” strikes a more
sober note. Corbett mentions
Dunleavy’s trouble with his
hands when in Sydney, and
reports his victories as they
come.
To. all this Dunleavy says
simply: “I was never a great
fighter.” But he makes the
point that he was never
knocked about.
{This story of the famous
gym., and of some of the
splendid fighters of Dunleavy’s
day , "will be continued next
week .).


PROOF
100% Australian-
made from Aus-
tralian Material
LYSAGHTS
FENCING WIRE
WIRE NAILS
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Our MARKER
in every Roll of Netting
sew
■■
s^*
i*f
ppiiPigg^£39W
I! is ; ISIS ■
ESTABLISHED 1884
® BARBED WIRE
ZINC OXIDE
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
LYSAGHT BROS. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Eeg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Ft. Hoad,
Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
A GREAT BREEDER RETIRES
ONE of the greatest
breeders the cattle-world
has known—J. T. Scrym-
geour, 0.8. E., of the Netherby
Polled Shorthorn stud, War-
wick (Q.)—bowed out of the
game on March 13.
111-health, following an
accident in which he was
An appropriate time
for de-w o r m i n g
Merino wethers by
drenching with pheno-
thiazine is about
three weeks after 10
or more points of
rain. A suitable dose
is half an ounce
which represents 15
grammes. An appro-
priate time for mark-
ing lambs with Elas-
trator Rubber Rings
is immediately after
birth to minimise set-
back and disturbance
to the nervous system.
severely scalded nearly two
years ago, forged the last link
in the chain of circumstances
which forced the blind man to
put his stock under the
auctioneer’s hammer.
Over 1500 people from all
parts of the Commonwealth,
and from New Zealand and
New Guinea, attended the sale
to buy some of the results of
a lifetime’s work by a man
who has been blind since July,
1918, when he was wounded in
the head by a bullet during the
campaign in the Jordan Valley.
Jim Scrymgeour founded
Netherby in 1923. Since that
time, his stock have triumphed
in every major showring.
Many of the champions have
been led by Scrymgeour him-
self. He was the first man ever
to cross the Queensland border
into New South Wales with
stud beef-stock for the Sydney
Royal.
With the stock from his
Warwick stud Scrymgeour has
won over 2000 firsts and
hundreds of purples at shows
throughout Australia.
He made his mark at Sydney
as.early as 1924, and in 1954
won five championships and a
grand-championship with his
celebrated Netherby Mark
Twain, which was afterwards
sold for the record price of
5300gns.
His Netherby Matchless
Miss, bred on the property at
Warwick, is ranked by leading
judges as one of the finest
animals ever to stand in a
showring. This animal won
five championships and six
purples in Sydney and two
reserves in Brisbane and Too-
woomba.
When Scrymgeour founded
his stud the Shorthorns were
not polled as they are today. In
1936 he bought a polled bull
imported from America, Red
Victor. This bull, apart from
siring many famous animals,
dehorned the Netherby cattle.
Red Victor won at Sydney in
1939, and took away the purple
at Brisbane in 1937, ’3B and
’39.
Bidding was brisk when the
cattle were auctioned on
March 13. Fifty-four cows
brought a total of 27,580gn5.;
an average of 511gns. Nine
bulls grossed 12,690gn5.;
average, 1410gns.
The top price was paid for
Netherby’s leading sire,
Juggler’s King 22nd(P),
imported from America. South
Australian breeder John
Parker, of Old Canowie,
Hallett, paid 4600gns. for this
splendid animal.
Calves on Netherby sired by
this bull have been of outstand-
ing quality, and it is plain that
Juggler’s King is an animal of
exceptional merit.
As well as Juggler’s King
Mr. Parker bought three top
females; Netherby Red
Radiant (lOOOgns.), Netherby
Valiant Maid (750gns.), and
Netherby Missie Mine
(780gns.).
Here are the top bulls and
females, their buyers, and the
prices paid; the bulls listed
first:
Juggler’s King 22nd (imp.,
U.S.A.; Juggler’s King, Red-Roan
Beauty, roan); John Parker, Old
Canowie (S.A.); 4600gns.
Netherby Matchless Musician
(Radiant C4th —Milton’s Matchless
Joy); Elsinora Pty., Ltd., 3100gns.
Netherby Roan Monarch (Bogan
Monarch Netherby Yovonma);
F. L. Treweeke, (Dirranbandi);
1200gns.
Netherby King O’Malley
(Juggler’s King 22nd Bogan
Flamari); W. B. Ashby and Sons,
Ash Rose (S.A.); 850gns.
-Netherby Clarion Call (Oakwood
Bugier-Daiguise Radiant Butterfly);
R. Lauder, Woodstock, Cunnamutla
(Q.); 475gns.
Netherby Lex Coronet (Max
Coronet —Netherby Red Radiance
2nd); R. T. Woods, Boonanga
(Boggabiila); 500gns.
Netherby Matchless Marmion
(Gunnawarra Radiant 64th-Milton’s
Matchless Joy 2nd); H. Maher,
Tasmania; 975gns.
Netherby Meadow Ranger
(Gunnawarra Radiant 64th Nether-
by Cherry Ripe 2nd); Mi Mi
Pastoral Co., Moree (N.S.W.);
800gns.
Netherby Meadow Bell (Gun-
nawarra Radiant 64th—Netherby
Red Maid); Alpha Pastoral Co.,
Alpha (Q.); 190gns.
• Females:
Netherby Missie Mine 3rd (Oak-
wood Bugler-Netherby Missie Mine
2nd); John Parker, Old Canowie
(S.A.); 780gns.
Netherby Rosebud Queen (Gun-
cawarra Radiant 64th-Netherby Red
Rosebud 2nd); Alpha Pastoral Co.,
Alpha (Q.) 510gns.
Netherby Amenity Arrogance
(Corona Masterpiece - Netherby
Amenity Miss); C. Kane, Cun-
namufla (Q.); 660gns.
Netherby Pretty Pattie (Bogan
Monach-Netherby Little Shirley);
B. J. Mackay (Trangie); 550gns.
Netherby Fancy Rose (Oakwood
Bugler-Netherby Fancy Rose);
Welltown stud (Goondiwinidi);
970gns.
Netherby Juggler’s Judy (Juggler’s
King 22nd-Netherby Margaret
Rose); M. McFarlane, Milly Miliy,
Young (N.S.W.); 72; gns.
Netherby Matchless Muriel
(Gundibri Standard 32nd —Milton’s
Matchless Joy 2nd); Welltown stud,
Goondiwindi (Q.); 700gns.
Netherby White Heather (Gun-
nawarra Radiant 64th-Netherby
Matchless Miss); Welltown stud,
Goondiwindi (Q.); 520gns.
Netherby Fancy Rose (Woomar-
gama Mirage - Netherby Fancy
Lady); B. J. Mackay, Trangie
tN.S.W.); 550gns.
Netherby Matchless Monica
(Cooper Farms Collynie 3rd, imp.,
U.S.A.—Netherby Matchless Miss);


&
3f
1882
1957
v f'. .
■Mj ‘
75 years ago
Haddon Rig Stud
was founded
for one purpose!
Determined to establish a Merino Stud
second to none, James Richmond first care-
fully assessed the finest sheep available in
Australia. Then he purchased 30 Stud Rams
and 1900 aged ewes of pure Peppin-Wanga-
nella Blood from Messrs. Austin and Millear,
of Wanganella. Selecting his classer with
equal care, Richmond appointed Donald
Grant. Together, they guided the Stud far
along the road to success.
When F. B. S. Falkiner acquired Haddon
Rig in 1916, he chose William O’Brien to
succeed Grant, whose own stud—founded on
Haddon Rig Blood—demanded his full-time
direction. The property passed to G. B. S.
Falkiner in 1929. On William O’Brien’s
death, Malcolm McLeod became classer—a
position he still holds.
For three-quarters of a century, Haddon
Rig’s unswerving policy has been the respon-
sibility of these six men. Their efforts have
made it Australia’s premier Merino Stud.
The quality and quantity of the rams can be
gauged from one fact: over one hundred Had-
don Rig Rams have been auctioned each year
at the Sydney Ram Sales since 1940—and
each team has achieved top aggregate!
At the 1957 Sydney Ram Sales, you will have
every opportunity to profit by Haddon Rig’s
75 years of astounding success.
QMS (Mil MOQQVH
WARREN, N.S.W.
©
TELEPHONE: WARREN 74
HR2-57
W. B. Ashby and Sons, Ash Rose
(S.A.); 660gns.
Wendouree Pride 14th (Albinia
Robb'ie Burns 2nd —Wendouree
Pride 8th); F. L. Treweeke, Dirran-
tandi (Q.); 900gns.
Netherby Red Radiance 2nd
(Gunnawarra Radiant 64th
Netherby Red Radiance); John
Parker, Old Canowie (S.A.);
lOOOgns.
Netherby Amenity Miss (Netherby
Rosewood Prince Coombing
Amenity 21st); A.M.L. and F. Co.;
500gns. -
Netherby Red Cherry (Gunna-
warra Radiant 64th—Netherby
Cherry Ripe 2nd); W. B. Ashby,
Ash Rose (S.A.); KMOgns.
Gunnawarra Roan Winsome 6th
(Hilldale Collynie 2nd —Gunna-
warra Roan Winsome 4th); R. J.
r ,°wn, High Road, Young
(N.S.W.); 875gns.
Netherby Wild Rose (Gunna-
warra Gay Lad 10th —Netherby Red
Rosebud 2nd); C. Barker, Linburn,
Mudgee (N.S.W.); 670gns.
Netherby Snow White (Gunna-
warra Radiant 64th—Milton’s
Matchless Joy 2nd; full sister to
Netherby Mark Twain); Alpha
Pastoral Co., Alpha (Q.); 525gns.
Netherby Lady Beverley (Cooper
Farms Collynie 3rd—Antrim Red
Lady 14th); R. Lauder, Woodstock,
tunnamulla (Q.); 500gns.
Netherby Little Shirley (Gunna-
warra Radiant 64th—Netherby
Matchless Monica); Mrs. Hugh
Paterson, Barcaldine (Q.): 1025gns.
Netherby Margaret Rose (Gunna-
ytarra Gay Lad 10th —Netherby
Red Radiance 2nd); Chas. Counsell,
Dunblane stud, Southbrook (Q.);
/50gns.
Netherby Rambling Rose 2nd
(Gunnawarra Radiant 64th-
Netherby Red Rosebud 2nd); J. P.
and F. I. Kelman, Richmond (Q);
800gns.
Netherby Sweet Marie (Cooper
Farms Collynie 3rd-Netherby Nell
Gwynne); P. C. Betts, Sunnyside,
Warwick (Q.); 600gns.
Netherby Yavonnia (Cooper
Farms Collynie 3rd Wendouree
Pride 14th); F. L. Treweeke,
Dirranbandi (Q.); 710gns.
Netherby Diana Durban (Karoola
Valiant Bogan —Flamari); A.M.L.
and F. Co.; 725gns.
Netherby Red Radiance 3rd
(Coonong Perfection-Netherby Red
Radiance 2nd); J. P. and F. I.
Kelman, Richmond (Q.); 625gns.
Netherby Valiant Maid (Karoola
Valiant-Netherby Red Maid);
John Parker, Old Canowie (S.A.);
750gns.
J. T. Scrymgeour has kept
one animal on Netherby. She
is Milton’s Matchless Joy 2nd.
She was dropped in November,
1937, and has had 15 calves.
Two are the famous Mark
Twain, sold for the Australian
record of 5300gn5., and Match-
less Musician, 3100gns. Milton’s
Matchless Joy 2nd was bred
by Mr. Anthony Hordern. Mr.
Scrymgeour bought her as a
young animal. She was sired
by Oakwood King Collynie
(imp., U.S.A.) from Matchless
Joy (imp., U.S.A.).
. The sale-ring was flanked by
tiers of baled hay, which
seated the large crowd that
attended. The highlights were
televised for screening in
Sydney and Melbourne.
In his farewell-address, J.S.
gave some good advice to
breeders. He attributed his
success to breeding, feeding and
kindness. His formula has
always been “C.C.C.8.E.,”
which, translated, means:
Constitution, conformation and
color, at both ends. It must
have been a sound prescription,
for Scrymgeour has used it
successfully since 1923.
J. T. Scrymgeour’s career is
probably unique anywhere in
the world. To have bred such
animals is a feat in itself. To
have done it without the benefit
of sight is almost unbelievable.
So highly sensitive are Scrym-
geour’s hands that he can tell
the color of an animal’s hair
just by feel,
No fault ever escaped his
“seeing hands,” and his ability
as a cattle-judge is recognised
throughout the world.
J.S. considers Netherby
Royal Challenge to be the
greatest bull he ever bred.
Shown 73 times, Royal
Challenge finished-up with a
score of 70 blues, 14 purples,
two seconds and a third.
Jim Scrymgeour and his wife
intend staying on at Netherby,
at least for the time being.
He won’t have time hanging
on his hands. He has already
published a volume of poems,
proceeds from the sale of which
have been donated to the
Warwick R.S.L., and he is now
writing his autobiography. This
already runs to 400 quarto
pages, and will be a book full
of interest to cattlemen and
all who love the land.
For his services to the cattle-
industry, Jim Scrymgeour was
invested with the 0.8. E. by the
Queen during her Australian
tour.
You would go a long way
before you would find a better
raconteur ; visitors to Netherby
are sure of an interesting yarn
when they meet him. Of
course, should you be an old
Light Horseman, then it’s really
on for young and old.
In all, a dinkum Digger
whose place in the cattle-world
will be very hard to fill.
R.
Centenary Show
“S.C.”: It’s 100 years since
Charles McGregor and Daniel
Gowing won ploughing-
matches near Tarraganda
Lane, Bega (N.S.W.), and so
laid the foundations of the
Bega A. P. and H. Society.
This year, at the Bega
Centenary Show, one of the
original ploughs used in 1857
was unveiled by the Governor-
General, Field-Marshal Sir
William Slim, as a permanent


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established ISIS.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
memorial to all South Coast
settlers.
The society also had two
grandsons of the ploughing
winners of 1857 to re-enact the
old scene, with Charles
McGregor guiding a team of
bullocks that drew the plough
of his grandfather, and Robert
Gowing taking the place of
Daniel Gowing.
The original Charles
McGregor had survived snake-
bite in the early 1840’s by
rubbing -gunpowder into the
incision and putting a match
to it.
Records show that these
early settlers made collars for
their horses by binding
tussocks together with stringy-
bark, but the 1957 Gowing
confessed that his first effort
with a plough-team was with
the horses at the show.
Sir William, in his speech,
pointed the contrast of the
expedients of the early days
with the modern machinery
on display. Farming today,
he said, was a combination of
the experience of the practical
man on the land and the
specialised knowledge of
engineer and scientist.
When Sir William and Lady
Slim walked to the arena to
inspect the parade and the
livestock they met “King
Billy,” an aboriginal, the
84 - year - old grandson of
Biamanga, former chief of the
Wallaga Lake tribe.
Both stopped and talked
with “King Billy,” who was
mounted on a grey pony ; and
who was soon afterwards
picked-up on the closed-circuit
television that was being used
at Bega for the first time.
TV and .the century-old
plough made another contrast;
and so did the pedigreed
Jersey stock.
The Bega society permits
only pedigreed Jersey stock to
be shown at Bega. The late
James Farraher brought the
first Jersey bull, Lucius, to the
district. Apart from beef-
cattle and the Bates and
Parbery Ayrshires and Short-
horns, the district is mostly
Jersey country.
It was a great day for the
father-and-son combination of
R. and C. C. Cochrane, of
Bega, when Fred Greenaway,
of Toongabbie, near Parra-
matta, gave them the award
for champion bull and
champion cow.
The bull, Kingsvale Legis-
late, beat a prominent district
winner, J. W. Hergenhan’s
Parabel Design, and the cow,
Parabel Dreaming Cowslip,
defeated C. Guthrey and Son’s
Rockleigh Hallmark’s Bloom.
There were more victories
for R. and C. C. Cochrane.
They won the award for the
champion heifer with Parabel
Linda’s Duchess, with Cobargo
breeder H. I. Salway gaining
the reserve with Wilgo Loyal
Lady.
The Cobargo stud’s bull
Wilgo Design won the junior
championship, the judge giving
the reserve verdict to E. B. and
H. J. Slater, of Bimbaya, with
Parabel Cowslip Legislate.
Kameruka Estate won the
class for dry cow, three years
and under four, with
Kameruka Keystone’s Rose.
Easter Bonnet Jessie (imp.),
the estate’s champion last year,
died soon after her win—one
of the pieces of hard luck
stud-breeders have to take in
their stride.
R. and C. C. Cochrane
showed three beautiful type
heifers, all of the Linda strain
—Linda’s Duchess, Cowslip
and Dream —to win the three
places for heifers 18 months
and under two years, and also
had a victory in the sire’s
progeny section, Victory
Dreaming Wanderer’s get. C.
Guthrey’s nomination, by
Rockleigh Hallmark, was
second.
Stock founded on the late
Ken Taylor’s Kenilworth Stud
at Tanja gained several places,
but were not quite up to the
championship standard of the
day.
Mimmosa Kitty, from E. B.
and H. J. Slater’s property at
Bimbaya, a winner at many
district shows, took the award
for cow in milk, three years
and under four.
In comment after the judg-
ing, Mr. Greenaway said that
the standard of stock shown
was high, and finer points of
judging had to be used.
He said that he believed the
golden Jersey color was
important, and he liked good
udder-development and a good
straight line. But he doubted
the wisdom of the class for
very young (under six months)
bulls and heifers.
Easier Caponising
“C. O. Walk”: Having
caponised quite a few thousand
cockerels in my time, perhaps
I can add a little to “G.M.’s”
advice (B. 13/3/’57).
I put all the birds in a
corner with a netting-hurdle,
seat myself inside on a kero.-
drum. Catch the cockerel, lay
it in my lap and lay the right-
arm along the back, with the
left-hand draw the head, which
faces from me, over the left
knee, pinching the skin between
finger and thumb.
The caponising-gun is in-
serted just before the finger-
tip, and the pellet held inside
the fold of skin while the gun
is withdrawn.
By this method the pellet is
never lost, and the operator is
certain it is beneath the skin.
As injection is towards the
head, the finger and thumb
prevent embedding the pellet
in the head-tissues.
During the operation the
head is held fast in the cupped
left palm, against the knee, the
wings and body held fast be-
tween the right-arm and the
lap. The bird is then thrown
over the hurdle and the next
bird caught.
Using this method, I’ve
caponised, on my own, over
200 birds an hour. It’s miles
faster than the method recom-
mended by “G.M.,” which,
however, is quite suitable for
anyone with a small flock of
birds.
Footrot
“Omeo”: Recent N. S.
Wales experiments show that
there’s little danger of healthy
sheep picking up footrot by
travelling in rail-trucks; so
there’s little to be gained by
disinfecting sheep-trucks.
It has been known for a long
time that the footrot-germ
can’t live for more than a
week away from a sheep, but
many owners have feared that
their flocks would become
infected when riding in trucks
which had carried “footrotty”
mobs. The experiment was
conducted at Glenfield Veterin-
ary Research Station.
Clipping Queen-hees
“B-herd”: Ever since T read
an answer on the “Service
Department” page a couple of
weeks back, dealing with the
above subject, I’ve been
haunted by the thought of a
wondering inquirer still hold-
ing a queen-bee in one hand
and pondering the paragraph.
The answer was a shade
general, and somehow became
entangled in swarm-control
before the queen was sighted.
So put the lady down, man,
and start again. Here are three
practical ways to clip the
queen’s wing.
Like many aspects of bee-
keeping, operating on a queen’s
wing is somewhat, individual.
First, catch the queen ; not at
all a simple procedure. Don’t
upset the colony by careless
handling, or too much smoking
from the outset, otherwise the
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(21/3/’57)
Queensland should receive heavy rains on the north and
south coasts during April; good rains elsewhere in the State,
apart from poor rains on the central coast, central highlands,
Maranoa and southern-border areas. There is a likelihood
of a cyclone moving, down the eastern coastline during the
period covering the end of March and beginning of April.
N.S.W. should get general rains, mainly above average,
during April, with the heaviest falls and some flooding on
the coast. Good rains of a similar nature likely in May,
but rainfall should become patchy from August onwards.
Most of Victoria should receive light rains during April,
apart from some moderate falls in the north-east, east-
central and west coast. General rains should commence in
May.
In S.A., April should be confined to light-to-moderate,
patchy rains, below normal, although good rain may occur
in the upper north; but the interior dry, with the possibility
of general rains during May.
April should also be a month of poor rainfall in W.A.,
although there may be heavy general rains in most of the
State during May.
LENNOX WALKER


'the family wants
COLOUR pictures i
Kodachrome
k cofotut Mm*
To-day’* photography is COLOUR photography . . .
to so wonderful the Kodachrome Way. Everyone
likes bright, colourful transparencies and lifelike
Kodachrome home movies—colour points, too!
Ask for Kodachrome Colour Film in the familiar
yellow box, favoured by millions all over the world
for its reliability, crisp definition and colour richness.
Available in 8 mm* 16 mm. and 35 mm. packings.
KODAK (Australasia) Pty, Ltd . Branches in all States
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
queen and the bees will be
on the run.
If the bees are bush-bred,
they’ll form clusters and the
amateur may as well put the
lid back on the colony. If
they’re pure, well-bred bees,
the rule still applies. Take it
easy.
When the queen is sighted,
wait till she’s at rest —a matter
of a second or two then
without hesitation, reach and
grasp her gently and firmly
about the shoulders (thorax, to
the technical - minded). A
blundering stab at her results
in seizing her by the abdomen
and having to squeeze her like
the devil to hang on —for a
queen-bee is exceptionally
strong thus damaging, pos-
sibly, the. egg-laying apparatus,
or losing her altogether, and
making her frightened and
evasive.
It’s not easy; it requires
fairly long practice and con-
fidence. Both can be built by
picking-up workers off the
comb. Drones are a bit too
easy and there’s no penalty for
carelessness.
With the queen grasped,
allow her to rest on the fore-
finger of the other hand, then
bring the thumb down on her
thorax again. Thus, she is held
ready for the snipping opera-
tion ; both wings are free, like-
wise her abdomen. Obviously,
if the operator is left-handed
with the scissors, the queen
must be held in the thumb and
forefinger of the right.
To therr operate the
scissors is the simplest part of
it all. Use smallish, sharp
ones, and cut the tip off the
main-blade. There’s no point
in hacking it half-off.
How much or little can be
ascertained by dropping the
queen, after the operation, on
the palm of the hand. She will
attempt flight and how suc-
cessful she is will be the
operator’s guide for future
clippings. There need be no
fear that she will escape, for,
with the slightest tip gone, her
flight will be poor to nil.
The queen, after clipping,
can be returned to the frame-
bars. Watch that she is not
balled. If that happens, it is
scope for another par.
Second method is a text-
book one, for I haven't seen a
practical man use it. Fashion
a fork, about an inch wide,
and across the points tie a
rubber-band. Watch the queen,
then, on the rare occasions
when she is isolated, press the
rubber gently down on her
thorax, thus holding her
immobile on the combs. Bring
the point of the scissors into
play.
With practice, this method
may be in order, but it hasn’t
the convenience of the first in
regard to the actual clipping.
The third method might be
called the universal one for
the practical man. He picks
the queen from the comb, holds
her body against the side of
the top super, manipulates her
until one wing is spread along
the flat edge, then with a quick
movement of his hive-tool,
sharpened for just such an
operation, severs the wing and
returns the queen to the hive.
Time, 10 seconds, but only
for the experts.
Clipping the queen, of
course, is of doubtful value, as
evidenced by the fact that only
a few professional queen-
sellers clip the queen on mail-
ing. The operation is usually
performed on request.
In practice, when swarming-
time comes the bees build the
cells as usual, then, when the
word’s passed around, those
that are going leave the colony.
The clipped queen takes-off,
gets a foot or two from the
hive-entrance before she
plummets, then in her
enthusiasm commences crawl-
ing.
The bees will circle and when
they find no queen in their
midst will return to the hive.
But this is of small value,
because they stay only until
the first queen emerges, then
off they go with her. Bees take
an awful lot of disuasion when
their blood is up for swarming.
(i Continued on page 63 )


seemed to have offended you so
grievously.
Yours sincerely,
DAVID LOW.
Dhad no wish to get into
Lady Oxford's bad books,
because I admired her. Away
back in the early ’twenties I
had been flattered to receive
her notes, in wild pencilled
calligraphy, complimenting me
about my attacks upon people
she did not like and suggesting
quite impossible cartoons
against Lloyd George.
When I drew her husband,
Asquith, she took umbrage on
ihc ground that I made him
look too fat. Few women have
a real appreciation of cari-
cature.
It was their daughter, Eliza-
beth Bibesco, a brilliant woman
whose perpetual wit made my
head swim, who introduced
me into the famous Margot
luncheon-parties, once the
cynosure of political talent.
There were too many ghosts
present for my liking. I had
the feeling that if I sparkled
in the wrong place, I might be
rebuked by John Morley.
But all was well. The lady
replied to my letter, thus:
2nd May. 1938.
Dear Mr. Low,
I should * have answered your
letter long ago—for which flt
apologise—but I have been ill: I
am well now. I never in my life
thought any of your wonderful
drawings were inspired by per-
sonal dislikes —nor have you
“offended” me. I am quite free
from personal touchiness in politics
and am certain that you have
no political enemies. Your car-
toons are a delight to everyone,
as no man living can draw as well
as you do. But I don’t think we
could have gone to war to protect
a threatened race—Abyssinia, nor
China. Nor indeed do I think we
can flght.jor the Czechs. But alas!
I am a passionate Pacifist, and de-
plore the anti-peace policy of the
present Liberal party. What do
the Liberal party think that we
shall gain by constantly censoring
the Government, and for what?—
pursuing a policy of Peace. The
P.M. may fail—tho’ he has not
done badly up to now—in which
case we can always return to Hate.
Suspicion, and more threats, which
we can’t carry out.
Don’t be angry with your Liberal
admirer.
MARGOT ASQUITH.
OMETIMES I received
w) letters of encouragement:
Dec Bth. 1937.
To David Low, from one who is
proud to be his fellow-countryman
(or nearly so)
GILBERT MURRAY.
20 Maresfleld Gardens.
London, N.W.3,
Nov. 12th. 1938.
A Jewish refugee from Vienna, a
very old man personally unknown
to you, cannot resist the impulse
to tell you how much he ad-
mires your glorious art and your
Inexorable, unfailing criticism.
SIGMUND FREUD.
TT WAS pleasantly surprised
d- at the number of people
who wanted to “help” me.
I was still essentially a lone
hand, but bit by bit, without
design, almost inadvertently,
1 had acquired a network of
sources of information and
“background” which would
have done credit to an expert
spy. Though much of it was
of the side-door variety, I
became familiar with some
mighty important front-doors,
too.
My years of attendance at
annual conferences, debates
and demonstrations of all three
parties, with occasional looks-
in at the plottings in their
backrooms, had given me a
wide enough circle of acquain-
tance to enable rne to keep a
fitful finger on the national
pulse.
A newspaper-office is as
good a place as any for estimat-
ing the currents of public
opinion, and the Fleet-street
grapevine is as rapid as any
telegraph. My association
with the Beaverbrook Press
gave me a ready-made Right-
wing interpretation of events,
and I had become a director of
the “New Statesman and
Nation,” which kept me in
touch with the view from the
Left.
I benefited greatly from the
fact that I had some close
friends among the press-corres-
pondents always dashing back-
wards and forwards across
Europe. Particularly I found
the American “specials”
dependable usually for the up-
to-the-minute inside stuff,
imparted with candor and
reality undiluted by local
loyalties.
In America, two of my
books published there had
reached the best-seller list and
were much written about.
Comments on the cartoons, as
cartoons, were generous, but,
perhaps more significant, the
attitude they illustrated
appeared to be widely
approved by American public
opinion.
I promptly strengthened my
American connections by
accepting some commissions,
both to draw cartoons and to
write articles. I do not know
whether I found or was found
by a good friend in New York
journalism, Lester Markel of
the “New York Times,” but I
do know that it was under
his kindly encouragement I
began to write fairly regularly.
I kept this last activity quiet
in London, because a delicate
plant can get too much sun,
and because it was a bit of a
lark to be a cartoonist in one
place and a writer in another.
77 HAD drifted into leading a
double life, spending half
my time alone drawing or writ-
ing in a quiet room at Hamp-
stead, no telephone, no mes-
sengers ; and the other
lunching, dining and talking
with knowing birds, unim-
peachable sources and chaps
just back.
I learned much of the inside
doings of the Foreign Office,
the State Department and the
Quai d’Orsay; of who was
who at the White House and
the private habits and latest
sayings of the President; and
of what callers the Prime
Minister had yesterday and
what (probably) had passed
between them. It was like
having a front-seat at a night-
mare —interesting, frightening
and exhausting.
I had not realised that I
myself was “hot” until one day
when I was visiting—for a
quite innocent purpose—a well-
known politician, and, getting
up to go, I saw his secretary
open the door and cautiously
look up and down the passage
to make sure no one saw me
leave the office.
I had acquired this personal
“heat,” I suspect, for a variety
of reasons: a rumor that had
got around that I knew more
than I let on ; John Gunther
in his book Inside Europe had
inflated my importance as an
influence on British public
opinion at the time, and the
passage had been widely
republished ; and my wife and
I were known to be friends of
the Maiskys.
FOR years the British
Government had played
safe, to avoid “offending”
Hitler, by maintaining at best
a frostily correct attitude to-
wards Soviet Russia and its
diplomatic representatives.
Moscow’s circumlocutory
policy, to say nothing of its
occasional blatant errors of
judgment, had not helped
matters. For long spells, when
it was still a matter of doubt'
whether the West would make
an accommodation with Hitler
at the expense of the East, the
Soviet Embassy had been a
lonely island and its Ambas-
sador a Robinson Crusoe.
Ivan Maisky was a small,
plump man with bright black
eyes, small moustache and
small chin-beard, who could
be made by an unfriendly
photographer to look sinister.
But neither he nor his wife
was in the least sinister. They
were cordially likeable as
human-beings for their own
sakes.
Maisky had much wit and
humor (including the ability
to laugh heartily at himself)
and we took to one another.
He never tried to put one over
on me, although frequently we
had disputes, especially about
the import of some cartoon or
other which he thought hadn’t
done his country justice. It
was illuminating to me to have
a Russian comment on passing
events among the wild tales
that flew about.
MY wife and I were visitors
to their house and they
to ours. Our acquaintance
weathered some difficult
passages.
An Ambassador must be the
faithful servant of his Govern-
ment, and neither his conduct
nor his views on public matters,
even when expressed in private,
could ever be as free and easy
as those of a cartoonist like
me, who sometimes forgot to
dissemble and be tactful.
There had been the awful
moment at a Beaverbrook
party in the early ’thirties
when Maisky had asked me to
introduce him to Sir Austen
Chamberlain, and I innocently
did so, not observing all the
signs that Sir Austen definitely
and positively did not wish to
meet him.
With the coldest of salu-
tations the Chamberlain nose
went up in the air and he
turned away. Maisky’s face
was a study in Russian rage.
“Well, you asked me to,” I
said.
At length someone wakened
up to the thought that if the
British wanted the Russians
they had better be cultivated.
The scene changed. Abruptly
that house was crowded with
a brilliant galaxy of military
and diplomatic nobs and their
social appendages. Even the
Prime Minister himself came
along in all his orders to cele-
brate in vodka the anniversary
of the Bolshevik Resolution.
He made an historic sight
pretending to be at ease stand-
ing alongside Maisky. I caught
Maisky’s eye in passing and
he gave me a barely percep-
tible wink.
MY cartoons had for
months been plugging co-
operation with Soviet Russia.
I had a strong feeling after
Munich that if Hitler forced
war, the Western democracies
would need both Russia and
America with them to survive,
and this consideration eclipsed
all minor spittings and growi-
ngs.
The passage of events also
influenced my outlook to some


CARRY THE
SURDEN
Established ISOB in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen
many Battles, including
the Battle of Waterloo,
and has emerged from
them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT
MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
N.B.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne
An Invitation
TO VISIT THE DISPLAY OF
AND
MANNING
JBm
STEEL CONSTRUCTIONS
Behind the French Pavilion at the Royal Easter Show
Manufactured by:
9NINNVH T
PTY.
LTD.
The Boulcvarde,
Kirrawee
LB 7862
And Rex Building, Wickham Street, Valley, Brisbane
extent. Six “key” cartoons,
among dozens on this theme,
both tell the story and illustrate
the evolution of the viewpoint.
“The Watching Eye”
reflected that Soviet Russia,
although its Government had
been the only one to signify
readiness to carry out its obli-
gations to Czechoslovakia, was
excluded from negotiations in
order to avoid “offending”
Hitler.
“Scrap of Paper” underlined
the fact that Soviet Russia and
China alone had stood out
against the League’s acceptance
of Mussolini’s conquest of
Abyssinia.
“What, No Chair For Me?”
recorded that Soviet Russia
had been ignored and snubbed
at the Munich Conference.
“A Piece Missing,
Tovarich?”. illustrated the
attempt of the Western nations
to build a new defence-wall
without the manpower of
Soviet Russia.
“Sit Down,” the arrival, at
long last, of a British emissary
in Moscow to discuss an
alliance, although the knowing
ones in London feared that
Soviet Russia had already lost
confidence in France and
Britain and was trying to
“hedge” its risks with the
Nazis.
“If the British Won’t,
Maybe WE Will” was a fore-
cast of the Nazi-Soviet Pact.
WE knew the Maiskys
sufficiently well to dis-
pense with diplomatic courtesy
when occasion demanded, as it
did when, keeping a pre-
arrangement, we lunched at
the Embassy three days after
the news broke of the Pact.
The only other guest was
Arthur Cummings, of the
“News Chronicle.”
All started off smoothly,
just as though the country our
host represented had not just
given the green-light for a
world-war. Halfway through
lunch I could stand it no
longer, I forgot my manners,
smacked the table and spoke
my mind. Arthur followed-
up in the same strain, but with
more English reserve. There
was plain speaking that day.
Hell, everything had gone
wrong. Hitler had divided his
opponents'at last and was now
in a position to dare all comers.
Drama waxed inevitably to
tragedy. Advertised months,
years, beforehand, plainly
warned long in advance, even
as to time and place—the blow
fell. Britain and France were
dragged to war under such
uninspiring and disadvan-
tageous circumstances that it
seemed hardly possible for
them to win.
What a situation! In gloomy
wrath at missed opportunity
and human stupidity 1 drew
the bitterest cartoon of my life,
“Rendezvous,” the meeting of
the “Enemy of the People” with
the “Scum of the Earth” in the
smoking ruins of Poland.
But no one who knew
Maisky thought of blaming
him or of doubting his desire
for and belief in a closer
association between Soviet
Russia and Britain. The next
time I called on them Maisky
was engrossed in the building
of a most magnificent air-raid
shelter, full of gadgets, in his
garden.
He presented me with an
inscribed copy of Tolstoy’s
War and Peace, and hinted, as
a diplomat may hint, that all
was not lost and things were
not what they seemed. At
which I was more comforted.
When the Maiskys returned to
Russia, they left behind them
affectionate memories with a
varied multitude of friends,
from Winston Churchill down-
wards.
With the Maiskys ended a
Chapter. After them came Mr.
Molotov’s Young Men. A very
different type in a very
different world.
(To be continued next week)
However, clipping a queen and
swarm-control are two dif-
ferent chapters.
Formalin Strength
“Greta”: Formalin is as
good as any other medicament
for footrot-control in sheep,
but it should never be used in
any stronger concentration
than five-per-cent, solution.
Twenty minutes in this should
do the job well and safely.
There have been reports of
damage to sheep which have
been stood in ten-per-cent,
solution; affected tissue has
become flyblown, and infected
badly enough to cause death
in some cases.
Summer-shearing
“Natya”: Summer-shearing
has been gaining popularity in
recent years. Advantages, in
many districts, are better
weather - conditions in late
spring, when it is hard to get
a run of good days (October
is the wettest month in most of
southern Australia) and the
fact that it is usually easier to
get shearers.
Taking off the fleece in
summer also gives an advan-
tage in blowfly-control, and
leaves less wool to be taken
off at crutching-time before
lambing, as well as relieving the
grass-seed situation. It could
also be an advantage at mating-
time, and in preparing the
flock for an autumn-dip
against lumpy wool.
If you are thinking of shear-
ing in summer, make sure you
have plenty of shade. Light-
skinned sheep can easily get
sunburn. And, unless planned
carefully, summer - shearing
could clash with harvest and
the footrot-control programme.


Confessions of a TV Fan
By DANNY JENKINS
FOR richer in the home,
for poorer in the pub,
television is with us. The
sets have moved out of
the department-stores and the
shop-windows into the lounge-
rooms and bars.
For months the event had
been heralded and telegraphed
in paid and unpaid advertise-
ments ; for months the taper-
ing steel structures were climb-
ing into the sky, and enterpris-
ing Sydney bookies were laying
odds on the first to get the job
cone.
The ceremonies are now
over. The champagne-corks
plopped, and the glasses were
emptied.
The red beacons are there to
grace the nightly skyline.
After the U.S., the Continent,
and the Middle East, the
wonder of modern electronics
has come to us.
THERE was the merest hint
of how old-fashioned the
message would be. You had
to have a prophetic eye when
you looked into those shop-
windows months ago.
Beside the refrigerators in
enamelled white, beside the
green and red portables in
plastic, the steely-grey fans and
the white-ash radiograms,
stood solid-maple and oak
boxes with the big grey glass
centres.
The design seemed vaguely
familiar; derived, you would
think, from an old-fashioned
dresser. If only the legs were
a little longer, and the dust
were wiped off the glass, you
could persuade a dear old
spinster to put the piece into
her bedroom —it was so
reassuring.
Indeed, the message the de-
signs conveyed was reassur-
ance all the way. The novelty
was merely technical; the tone
would be Victorian.
E APPROACHED television
without anxiety. The first
two serials I saw took me way
back the way I like it: Robin
Hood and Hopalong Cassidy.
I suppose Robin Hood is
still familiar to a modern audi-
ence who know him from the
comics. The film moved at a
leisurely pace; it had some
good photography of the Eng-
lish countryside, and a plot you
could follow if you stayed
awake.
It encouraged me to stay for
Cassidy. That figure had agree-
able associations for me, from
the time the country stations
ran him as a daily serial.
I had got to wondering what
that mythical figure looked
like. Now I found out:
William Boyd, hefty, three-
inches taller than anyone else,
the air of a lumberjack made
good as the director of a timber
corporation and dressed-up in
a cowboy outfit for a folksy
barbecue.
I confess I liked seeing a cute
American girl who wore all her
clothes all the time. When sud-
denly it got to the shooting
stage I didn’t ask myself what
business that stout gentleman-
hero had to be mixed-up in the
local skulduggery. I was only
left a little breathless at how
he still managed to hop along.
(cJHORTLY afterwards the
national station went on
the air. A long connection
with comic-strips and country
serials might have infected
what I had seen so far, but
now I thought I would see what
broadcasters could do with the
new medium.
Their glory had rested on
music that I would now view.
1 was not disappointed.
ABN chose its music where
it was most visual. I had been
told that Liberace had to be
seen to be believed. TV pro-
vides his reflection in an end-
less chamber of mirrors ; and
if you wonder whether he can
play, they will show you his
fingers as they race up and
down the keyboard to the tune
of Tschaikowsky and the
rhythm of chopsticks all at
once.
A heavy ring on one of his
fingers underlines the athletic
prowess of a man falsely
accused of being Momma’s
boy.
Nor is ABN stuffily tra-
ditional. They have Frankie
Laine to introduce the modern
note, and a revealing experi-
ence it is.
If you have collected Mezz
Mezzrow disks or read
Satchmo’s autobiography, if
you are apt to expect the kings
of modern music to get into
the groove or yell “Action-
Jackson” or the place to rock,
a course in Frankie Laine will
cure you.
Frankie Laine appears with
the same sweet smile and open
face as Liberace, and the joint
no more jumps than a night-
club at Tom Ugly’s round
about June.
A CLOSE friend of mine
who had meanwhile
become a TV follower was
slightly perturbed that I didn’t
share his enthusiasm. So I
wanted something modern? He
had two programmes ready
that would take me directly
into the modern concrete
jungle.
I couldn’t refuse, and settled
one night in his lounge-room
with a glass of Scotch to watch
Superman.
1 had to grant the point: this
night I met a boyhood hero
who had taken a refresher-
course. Clark Kent sat on the
tables of other people with the
"Mum says d'you Want to see 'The Birth of a Nation on the TV?"


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
An Australian Company. Established 1862.
Heiul Ofllce: GBORGE ANI) HINTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX
ORWELL PHILLIPS, K. .1. VICARS, O. GORDON RUSSELL,
A. MURRAY JONES'.
Fire, Marinte and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General it laimpe'-.
March 22 showed that, in spite
of considerable organised
opposition, the directors had
convinced most shareholders of
the desirability of their
proposals, designed to give
ordinary shareholders some
long overdue return on their
capital and, at the same time,
retain as much cash as possible
to provide for the utilisation of
the second half of the
company’s forests.
The directors apparently
hope to supplement retained
profits with long-term mortgage
or debenture finance to pay
for new development projects
costing £4 million.
The chairman. Sir David
Henry, said that if finance
could be obtained on suitable
terms to enable the use of
about threequarters of the
forest, the profits should, after
paying a cash-dividend, support
the use of the unplanned
quarter. It was too much to
expect a one-half utilisation
programme to finance the
utilisation of the other half,
and, at the same time, pay
cash-dividends.
On the face of it, this appears
to mean that there will be no
cash - dividend till three-
quarters of the forest is in use,
which will not be for four
years at least, probably longer.
(Full utilisation is estimated to
cost “the best part of £l2
million,” and the latest £4
million expansion programme
is not due for completion till
1960-61.)
Meantime, ordinary-share-
holders will receive ten per
cent, cumulative preference
shares for each 100 shares held,
and the chairman has indicated
that there may be another such
dividend-issue later.
Those shareholders who are
resentful about the continued
postponement of cash-dividends
would be unfair to the com-
pany’s management if they
failed to take into account the
recovery in the market value of
their shares from 5/- to over
18/- (N.Z. currency) in the
last 10 years.
An interesting and surprising
piece of information given to
the meeting by the deputy-
chairman was that 95 per cent,
of the company’s ordinary
shareholders already hold
preference-shares as well. The
directors think that this makes
it unlikely that the market will
be flooded with small parcels
of the new preference shares.
Time will tell.
Tasman Pulp’s Future
It must now be plain, even
to those who had thought
otherwise, that Tasman Pulp
and Paper shareholders have
several years to wait for a
dividend.
According to the company’s
director of finance, Sir Bernard
Ashwin, the first profit is
expected in a couple of years,
but accumulated losses will still
have to be worked off before
a dividend can be considered.
Sir Bernard points out that
the company has really had
only one full year in operation,
and, in that year, has just about
met operating costs apart from
depreciation charges. Losses
made so far were expected and
inevitable while the mills were
being run-in and the staff
trained.
The objective, he says, is to
work the project up to produce
its full rated capacity, because
it will be from the last 10 per
cent, of full production that
the profits will come. He is
confident that all the news-
print produced can be sold,
even when, as planned, rated
capacity is doubled to 150,000
tons 'a year.
authentic touch of the news-
paper-man ; his job, almost the
latest, to bust a gang who were
stealing radium from an Army
hospital in Germany and
smuggling it into the U.S.
But modem? It was radium
without protective walls and a
search without geiger-counters,
a Customs House in New York
without electronic controls, and
a Superman who flew back and
forth between the continents
on a magic rug he wrapped
round himself.
I sighed for a show called
“Jet Jackson,” whose name at
least promised much, artd I
had to wait less than half-an-
hour. On one occasion I had
seen a part of this show. Jet,
to get down to business, shakes
off his identity and puts on
the appearance of another ordi-
nary guy. In contrast to Super-
man, he has learnt a thing or
two from the modern poli-
ticians.
This night, Jet was protect-
ing a scientist who had in-
vented a new type of guided-
missile. The scene was the
scientist’s private bungalow,
where the missile had been
built. Conveniently, the trial-
station was on the roof-terrace
of the house, where the missile,
the shape of a medium-sized
turtle adorned with two horns
from the common or garden
slug, was ambling about.
Where had I heard this before?
The neutron lives twixt plated
decks
Which practically conceal its
sex.
I wonder how the missile
In such a fix can be so fissile ?
Tracing the antecedents of
Jet Jackson made me lose the
thread of the plot. However,
1 came back again when foreign
agents were trying to blow-up
the turtle by putting a gelig-
nite cartridge in its tail. It was
really reassuring to know that
nothing in TV would have
been incomprehensible to
Grandmother.
MY friend’s work on me
was not altogether lost.
I told myself that some-
where I would find a
piece, a show, a strip,
that might parallel, in style or
approach, the novelty of the
medium, and each night I came
back to an obstinate, search.
I tried sport. It was no
different from the document-
ary of the cinemas, and usually
a day behind the spoken wire-
less.
On two occasions there was
an antiquarian touch, the Le
Mans 1951 and the Mille
Millia 1953, a noteworthy
effort that was only spoilt by
the fact that yesterday’s
racing-cars are today’s sports-
models.
I tried the newsreels. I was
presented with enlarged stills
of lesser celebrities . . . the
Austrian Chancellor, the
Premier of Queensland . . .
that showed the black dots of
the newspaper-page from
which they had been cut on the
2 lin.-screen.
W£ien it came to the greater
men, like Chou En-lai, I heard
the text of his latest speech to
a newsreel of Chou in Moscow,
which I had seen in the cinema
two weeks before.
I tried the commentary. I
saw at last an event that was
taking place only a fraction of
a second earlier at a place
seven miles away. With prac-
tised deliberation and insistent
earnestness, Mr. Eric Baume
was even then taking off his
heavy spectacles and smooth-
ing his handlebar moustaches.
This I believed, for I had seen
it often elsewhere.
Encouraged by the
note of authenticity, I
continued my search for a pro-
gramme that would be some-
thing other than a visual serial,
a refurbished comic-strip, an
outdated documentary, a tele-
vised newspaper-clipping, a
piece of Tschaikowsky overlaid
with “Pix” illustrations.
I came across it at last: the
weather-forecast and the report
of the produce-markets. For
here, television took me right
behind the scenes and revealed
a series of young to middle-
aged public servants explaining
their guesses at tomorrow’s
weather with a genuine piece
of statistics.
These are the facts of the
world we know, this is our
daily sad condition! And
here, too, I could see snap-
shots of the giant pineapples
that fetched the top price down
Haymarket that very morning.
Since my discovery, I have
been anxiously awaiting new
on these lines.
I am looking forward to the
stockmarket quotations being
interlarded with coverages on
certain disused goldmines.
I am expecting that soon the
opening odds at Randwick or
Flemington will be accom-
panied with illustrations of
some leading bookie writing
tickets at Tattersall’s and quick
glimpses at certain fences in
Surry Hills.
I expect to see wool buyers
tearing open bales, and to
watch stock-agents looking at
horses’ teeth right in front of
the cameras. And I expect to
see the queues of new appli-
cants for TV-licences paying
their fivers.
As for the rest, it is still
ragtag and bobtail on a
modern vehicle, such as hasn’t,
been dreamt of since a Uni.
undergrad rode down Martin-
place in an atomic scooter.


very well see a ghost even if she has
stubby fingers, it is designed to make
the reader, from the outset, regard Miss
Jourdain as a suspicious character.
Miss Moberley is similarly caricatured.
Many more examples could be given
of Mrs. Iremonger’s attitude; one
will suffice —she holds it against Miss
Jourdain, as evidence of her romantic-
ism (“Interestingly enough, it is to do
with her telling stories, though this
time they are not her own”) that in
her youth she read the stories of Uncle
Remus to her little sisters . . .
And what is the reader expected to
make of Mrs. Iremonger’s extra-
ordinary allegation about the “disap-
pearance” of the second-edition of “An
Adventure”? About three months
after their “adventure” Miss Moberley
and Miss Jourdain wrote separate
accounts of it. Ten years later they
expanded these into a book. There
were complaints that the original narra-
tives should have been printed, as likely
to be more reliable. Accordingly, in
1913, a second-edition was printed with
these included. Though there were
some small discrepancies between the
original and later versions, there seems
to be no foundation whatsoever —there
is certainly no evidence adduced —for
the imputation in Mrs. Iremonger’s
assertion: “It is a pity, therefore, and
let us hope of no special significance,
that it is extremely difficult to get hold
of a copy of the second-edition today.”
But in spite of this hostile approach,
Mrs. Iremonger does make some
telling points.
It is almost enough that she estab-
lishes that Miss Moberley, like her
father before her, was an ardent sup-
porter of ghosts and that an hour or
two after his death in 1885 (he was
a bishop) she saw “two great white
birds” rise from the ground before her
and fly away over the cathedral—“ The
spread of their wings was immense,
and their feathers dazzlingly white.
They were unlike any birds she had
ever seen.”
After the Versailles adventure,
indeed, Miss Moberley’s encounters
with ghosts—usually of the most
exalted personages—become embarras-
sing: once she saw the Emperor
Constantine, dressed in a toga and
golden coronal, walking down the
stairs of the Louvre; and if it wasn’t
Miss Moberley but her friend and
champion Edith Olivier who had a
ghost drop a ghostly tennis-racket in
her bedroom (“It was an old-fashioned
shape, slightly curved, and many of the
strings were broken”) one cannot help
feeling that they were all seeing rather
too much.
Mrs. Iremonger establishes, again,
that before their adventure at Ver-
sailles both Miss Moberley and Miss
Jourdain, who “always claimed an
almost abysmal ignorance of France
and French history,” were well
acquainted with these matters: Miss
Jourdain was “actually engaged on a
series of lectures on the French Revo-
lution at her school at the time.”
Having disposed of the ladies, Mrs.
Iremonger proceeds to dispose of their
ghosts. She goes to great pains, for
and against, examining the possibilities
of apparitions, hallucinations, tele-
pathy, precognition and whatnot and
enlisting, to combat the suggestions of
J. W. Dunne, the able pen of Pro-
fessor C. D. Broad, “perhaps the most
distinguished living thinker in this
field.” Professor Broad is very testy
with poor Dunne, whom he finds “con-
fused and confusing to a high degree.”
He escapes from similar criticism him-
self by being totally incomprehensible.
Mrs. Iremonger’s own sharpest thrust
at the story is simply this: how, if the
rustic bridge over the stream was not
there, did the ladies get across it? Did
they rise a little into the air? And
would not this have been disconcerting
to the other tourists who were there
that day?
What, then, are we to make of it all?
Mrs. Iremonger, having smitten the
ladies hip and thigh (if the term is here
permissible), professes to leave the
question open. But it seems as likely
.as anything, following various experts
whom she quotes, that the ladies saw
exactly what they said they did: a
rustic bridge, a cottage, a little rotunda,
some gardeners or officials, a hand-
some man who ran after them and
told them to take another path if they
wanted to “cherchez la maison,” a
sinister man in a cloak, a man who
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 428
Across
I—Fortunes1 —Fortunes may be told from such waterfowl overhangs of
roof. (3, 6)
6—Game ends in steam. (5)
9 —Scoundrel strikes a phone communication by Idriess. (11)
10 — Vowels matched eggs. (3)
11 — Skins put back by the Rev. Alan? (11)
12 — Father’s in step. (3)
13 —Publicised a sound expert by the
nioxuugmare. (6, 6)
16 — Set about party rottenness. (12)
21 — Age article on Queen Elizabeth;
(3>
22 — Sad brothers cut up for food.
(11)
25 — Equipment for winter sport. (3)
26 — In search of food when
banqueters hear the guest speaker.
(5, 6)
27 Ferment in the Rue d’Oui. (5)
28 — Passage carpets in the air who
contested the grand-final unsuc-
cessfully. (7, 2)
Down
1 — A knave stole these fallen
women. (5)
2 Peel a pip (and mash it) for
dessert: (5, 3)
3 Esmond goes to topgear with
ease, according to the getaway
achiever. (7)
4 House where everybody is up
after six. (5)
5 Canonised printer’s assistant is a
highly unprofitable film skunk.
(7)
6 Island accountant (chartered)
- who is under 21. (7)
7 Illegal game’s short time. (3, 3)
8 — A Perth beer’s drunk like powder-
puff material. (9)
13— State of an unworn sweater. (3, 6)
14— Possibly a drone engaged in com-
munity work at which drones are
not wanted. (3)
15 — Three-eighths of a rupee. It’s
a big hit with the girls. (3, 5)
17 — Parvenu half of 7-down and one
of 1-down. (7)
18 — Kangaroo Street ruler whose wife
is inclined to brood? (7)
19 — Wait under the auto chemical.
(7)
20 — The old man to can a curious
encrustation on old bronzes and
other sculpture. (6)
23 — European city keeps its Chaldean
capital in tin. (5)
24 — Belt parts are rising. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 427


THE LATEST BOOKS -
GRAF SPEE
by Michael Powell, director of the film,
Battle of the River Plate, who wrote
this novel when he realised that in the
course of his reconstruction of the battle
between the Graf Spee and her enemies
he had come to understand what had hap-
pened and why on that epic occasion.
22/G (post 1/-)
GULF COAST STORIES
by Erskine Caldwell, author of Tobacco
Koad. The 21 stories in tiiis collection
are nil set along the strip of const which
has New Orleans as its centre, but the
comedies and tragedies of love they relate
are universal. They are written with the
author's usual humanity and humour.
20/- (post lOd.)
ANGUS &
89-95 Castlereaeh St., SYDNEY
Tel.: B 0363.
ROBERTSON LTD.,
66-68 Elizabeth St.. MELBOURNE, C.l.
Tel.: MF 6466.
Just out—the war thriller with the Buchan touch!
THE GUNS OF NAVARONE
Alistair Maclean
AUTHOR OF H.M.S. ULYSSES
“Unputdownable... .THE GUNS OF NAVARONE, his second novel, has the
same qualities that made H.M.S. ULYSSES a hit only more so. .. .he tells his
story with an intensity that can be felt by the reader” —Sydney Daily Telegraph.
From all Booksellers COLLINS PUBLISHERS Ready Now
THE BIBLE AS HISTORY
by Dr. WERNER KELLER
Translated by Dr. William Neil 432 Pages. 132 Illustrations and Maps
ARCHAEOLOGY CONFIRMS THE BOOK OF BOOKS
Retail Price in Australia 37/3 (postage 1 /7|-d. extra)
Obtainable from all Booksellers
HODDER & STOUGHTON LTD.
came out of a door (but a different
door from the one they claim), and
a lady sketching: only all these things
were not ghosts, not an act of Marie
Antoinette’s memory, but simply were
there, in the normal course of things,
that afternoon.
There is a rustic bridge; there is a
rotunda; and, assuming that the ladies
wandered around a bit, being lost, one
of Mrs. Iremonger’s experts demon-
strates that they could have seen every-
thing they claimed to without any need
at all to evoke the supernatural to
account for it. The costume of bodice
and fichu which “Marie Antoinette”
was wearing was also worn in 1901 —•
the lady was a tourist; and the sinister
Kiosk Man in the cloak, with his evil
pockmarked face, who might have
been the Comte de Vaudreuil, might
also have been a living Parisian
artist . . . What more likely?
It was a hot day; the ladies were
tired and confused; and it wasn’t until
a whole week later, as they themselves
admitted, that they began to wonder
if they had seen ghosts. It looks as
if the whole story “grew” on them.
Australian Folk-tales
Bill Beatty’s Beyond Australia’s
Cities (Cassell) is rather different from
the average book of outback travels:
partly because it wanders to a very
wide variety of places, chiefly because
Mr. Beatty has a genuine enthusiasm
for Australian folklore and a compact
and selective way of recording it.
True, the opening of his book is
alarming: Mr. Beatty setting-out on
the well-plodded track to Alice Springs
and recording the conversations of
local inhabitants in exceedingly corny
dialogue. Two outback characters, for
example, are supposed to be discussing,
over the transceiver, the expected
arrival of two new nurses for the
A.I.M. hospital at Birdsville:—
“Anyway, Andy, don’t expect a
couple of Betty Grables. If the
A.I.M. is wise they’ll see that they’re
plain and prim. The goodlookers
only last a year before they go and
get married! I know there ain’t no
law against nurses gettin’ married,
but we want to keep ’em here. Good
nurses are more scarce than hen’s-,
teeth these days. Strike me pink,
look what happened at Innamincka!
Three nurses, one after another, got
married to the policeman there!
Not the same policeman, of course.
And then—oh —here it is! I can see
the mail-truck crossing the creek!
Blimey, I’m feeling a bit excited
myself! Signing off now, Andy!
I’ll call you back later and tell you
all the news!”
Well, blimey and strike Bill Beatty
pink, how do people really talk in
the outback? For that you have only
to turn to another page of Beyond
Australia’s Cities, where Mr. Beatty is
directly reporting conversations he
heard; —
Mr. Gooding pressed a switch,
bringing into the network Dr. B.
Walton, of the Alice Springs hos-
pital. “She has a cold and she’s
crying all the time,” continued the
call from Yuendumu. “The soft
part of her head shows a slight
swelling and she has been on peni-
cillin for high temperature.”
“Give the child 100,000 units of
penicillin in the buttocks and report
this afternoon,” advised Dr. Walton.
Mr. Beatty is liable at all times to
say some extremely rash things: one
wonders, for instance, how often he
has really seen possums, along with
the kangaroos and emus, “fearlessly
roving through the dense bush glades”
of Flinders Chase on Kangaroo Island.
If he has been out at night with a torch,
he should say so. Too much of his
writing, of which this chapter is an
example, is hardly more than guide-
book stuff. . *
But this is interesting enough in its
way, because Mr. Beatty does guide
you to a lot of places, from the Tas-
manian west coast to Lord Howe, the
Barrier Reef and Broome. And there
remains the folklore-—the odd little bits
about the redgum at Springton, forty
miles north-west of Adelaide, in which
a pioneer named Herbig lived com-
fortably for many years; about the
pugnacious tombstone at Maitland,
N.S.W., “In memory of who has
been circumvented of his just and legal
property, prosecuted by wilful and
corrupt perjury, returned guilty by an
infamous and bigoted jury for being
a sincere patriot, and sentenced wrong-
fully by the laws of the land”; and
about the queer placenames which do
so much to enrich the Australian
countryside, like Who’d A-Thought It,
Bust-My-Gall, No Go and Wongle-
pong. It is in this sort of material,
nicely distilled into readable little
essays, that Mr. Beatty really has
something to say.


WINTER CLOTHING
RAIN
WEAR
H 8
EX-ARMY
S.H. Ground Sheet
Rain-proof Capes
As Issued to the Army. A
winter necessity f#r thus
who work in the rain, etc.
PRICE IS/- EACH
TUOCSERS
EX-ARMY
iirand new. in
sizes 38”. 40'%
42” waist.
30/- pair.
Ferritic value.
RAINCOATS
Women *
Gaberdine
Coats.
i Show erproof.
Women’s size
only.- -Slioi.
soiled, : must
be- sold.
CHIC K 25/-'
Cost 3/ <ST ext.
*O6 CA/UJXM&
£X-
6/SPOSAL
FOLDING CARD or
CAMP TABLE
24 x 24 BRAND NEW
Price 2i>/- caeh
Marine SPOTLIGHTS
h
A
1! Brass Mountings on Swivel,
tsad new. Price £6/5/- each.
V--
m
i f/
K'fiS
1
EX-ARM V
OVERCOATS ( WOOLLEN)
in Si*’** up to 361 n. Client.
PRICE \\V- raeli.
Post 4/ti extra.
3RAND NEW FLYING HELMET
\
/
Soft leather Chamois lined
Ideal motor cyclists, etc.
Price 25/- each
All sizes. Post 1/9 extra.
: :V : ::
EX-.VKM i
AA'OOLT.KX S.II. .JACKET
In Sizes up to Stiin. Cli<*sl
I .Seat for- Eisliiiis, AA'ork,
I’KICK 17 « ea. Pot i-fi
extra. In perfeet eoinfition
Kiii.i:
s PKm L.
for Riftemei
and Rifle
Chibs:
4 «‘l«*aner, l
Bandolier, 1
qri. Kili« on,
Kifle
S«>alilKir<l.
Priee, lot 39 'O. All ex-army.
TYRES AND MOTOR ACCESSORY
22$
TRUCK
CAR
TRAILER
WHEELBARROW
:t t«n Transfer Cases. Brand-new.
Will snit Bard & C'iiev. £5O eaeb.
THIS Xt>. TOR TIRES: MX3954
NEW
900 x 13 x 6-ply £H/*
825 x 10 x iori>iy. _ ....... tvit J<
700 x 20 x 6-ply £l3 If
<550 x 20 x 6-ply '. f,-:-.-. £lO/1*
000 x 20 x 8-ply £l-1/1*
<5O x 18 x 8-ply or 10 ply £l6/1*
Arsu SnOmO-liand Tyres in Stork
STOCK KEMOIEDS
<OO x 20 x 10-ply . \ £l2/C.
730 x 20 x 10-ply . £|s/I5
825 x 20 x 10-ply T £lB/1*
*)00 x 20 x 10-ply £2l 4
Mieo x2O x 12-ply ........ £26/10
1100 x 20 x 12-ply 1, £3O/1*
■ Every size slocKml. .Write for ((note.
/ USED TYRES ■
<OO X 20 (8-ply or 10-ply) .. £9 to £l2/I*l
>5O x 20 (8-ply or 10-ply) ... ..f £ll to £
825 x 10 (8-ply) Truck Tyres,
ex. con.. £l3/10
823 x 20 (10-ply) £l3 to £
1)00 x 20 (10-ply) £9, £-12, t
1050 x 20 (10-ply) £lO, £l5, t
Js«10 x 20 (12-ply) £l5, £
1350 x 20 (16-ply) £25, £
XXV SPECIA4L XXX
750 x2O x 8-ply tyres used, but as ue’
Price, £l7/10/0. Don’t Delay.
WOODEN FRAME
SPRING WIRE STRETCHER!
m
oiitiitlon Penect. ' Si»»;ie *»*h( Size:
-Price US/- ea«‘b.
irand New Paint Brushes 5 in.
Set in Knbber, Pure Bristles.
PRICK ‘l5/-. Post 2/6 extra.
TELEPHONE WIRE
v
-*-V'
ysVi
BRAND' XEW
.S. AK M V TYRE on mile
and i-miie coils.
I‘RKE i*. 10/- »n ; le and
15/- 4 mile Coils.
STOCKS AND DIES
a
n
■-
■if-
E 53
B.A. Stocks and Dies
<«ini|»!ete set in wooden
•Container. Brand new.
Price £4/5/- set.
B 1 L,t ■ K I*oll’
All Brass and
Ommietal. Com-
plete with
Strainer. Brand
new. ilalf-priee
£5/10/- each.
Tubular Steel
Folding Stretchers
SuifaSilf for residential*,
-shearers* sited*. Uiamoml.
wire. Every bed guaran-
teed. bond condition.
PRICED AT 35/-
‘W'
K
MOTOR CYCLISTS GOGGLES
Elastic head hand. Folly lined,
PRICE 7/6 PR.
Post 1/6 extra.
Ex-.4rmy Tarpaulins
Size
Size
Size
Size
Size
size
\il
£27/10.0
f150.1l
£lO/0/0
£7/10 0
£6/0/0
£3/5/0
Eyelets Reinforced.
Every I'arp repaired If
necessary aud in perfect
condition.
A I IKsT-CI.ASS BUY.
Brand New it x IS 'l'arpaulir
niaiie from heavy duty If rat
mill canvas.
Worth. £5O. Our Price £32/10
RADIATOR CORES
Brand New Cher.
Size: x IBin. x 3in
Price £lO each
HOK'K iMC.s.
— 18&;
a
s
Made Iron* ‘-Ooz. water-sta»
canvas—lined with ex-Arn
woollen blankets, com pie
with snap-on leg straps, et
Price £4/ ea. I'iis( 4
HOSPITAL TYPE BEDS
rj
Cream colour ana in
excellent condition.
PMEJ6/-/-iA.
mm.
Wheel Barrow ami Trailer
Wheels. Ceaipiete unit ir.ci.
tyres, wheels, tabes and
bearings.
Sire 1£ x 4.
Price cti'apltie £6‘ I®.’-.
PLEASE WRITE NAME & ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTER
No C.O.D. MAIL, PHQNE, OR CALL No C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding, please add Freigh
ICING'S
LEATHER COODSTYRES
122-124 Devonshire St.
GENERAL MERCHANT
Sydney
WRITE FOR POST FREE CATALOGUE.
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station. -
Phones, FA?69I FA9155, MX3954. After hours only: MX J 269.
