

ff !iiLefc e,t 'L.
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Behind the Indonesian Chaos
Wednesday, December 18, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia fo-r transmission by post as a newspaper.
THE MINSTRELS’ GALLERY, EXETER CATHEDRAL
(he county town of Devon, stands at the head of the
River Fxe, ringed with hills and fertile fields. its recorded
history began in Roman times when the city was founded, about
the years a.d. 50-55.
Exeter was the centre of resistance in the West Country against
William the Conqueror, who was obliged to make friendly terms
with the inhabitants. There he built a great castle called Rougemoijt,
the ruins of which still remain today. The Normans were also
responsible for the building of Exeter’s great cathedral 800 years
ago on the site of a Saxon monastic church. Two massive towers
of the Norman structure still survive, but the rest of the cathedral
was built mainly between the years 1280 and 1369 in the Decorated
style.
An outstanding feature of the interior is the Minstrels’ Gallery,
which is illustrated here. It was built in the 14th century for the
Palm Sunday ceremonies of the medieval church. Because its
acoustics are perfect, the Gallery is still used by the choir when
singing carols at Christmas.
Part of the gallery’s richly-carved decoration consists of twelve
angels playing musical instruments, and they still show the original
soft colours with which they were painted six hundred years ago.
Among the many interesting memorials wnthin the cathedral
is a tablet commemorating R. D. Blackmore, author of the ever-
popular “Lorna Doone.”
In the North Tower hangs the great bell called “Peter,” which
was brought from Llandaft towards the end of the 15th century. Its
weight of 12,500 pounds is exceeded only by “Tom of Oxford.” The
ringing of “Peter” required the exertions of twenty-four men, but it
was cracked on the sth November, 1611, from a “too violent ringing
in commemoration of the Gunpow'der Plot.” Today it is used to sound
curfew at the close of day —a custom which had its origin in
Norman times.
No. 319: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


STORY
WRITING PAYS
If You Know How To
Write Successfully.
Editors can not obtain sufficient acceptable
MSS. This Student’s accceptances more than
pay for his Course:
“Remittances are coming in frequently:
I am more than paying for the Course.”
Successful STOTT-Trained writers con-
tribute regularly to the press. It will pay
YOU to study with STOTT’S.
Wherever you live, STOTT’S can train
you in your own home. Send the Coupon
—without cost or obligation of any kind
—for STOTT’S Free Literary Prospectus.
WMIIBW
lOC Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney ; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, 0.P.0... Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you- fiction,
text book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
A FISHING BOOK
While the expert discussion of rods,
reels, lines, bait-rigs, clips, boat-
manoeuvres and the inadvisability of
catching a snapper on a handline at
the same moment as a marlin attaches
itself to your rod is absorbing, pro-
vocative and compulsory reading for
the small group of blue-water fishermen
with a special interest in Athel
D’Ombrain’s Game Fishing off the
Australian Coast (Angus and Robert-
son) it is a fact that game-fishing is
too expensive for the average Aus-
tralian rockhopper and, if you do treat
yourself to an occasional day out as
an amateur, all these learned matters
can safely be left to the boatman.
So, for the general reader the ques-
tion is whether this large and compre-
hensive treatise can also be read as a
common or garden fishing-book;
whether there are swordfish-stories as
well as expertise and whether, along
with these kings of the ocean, there are
more approachable fish such as one
might hope to catch oneself on any
day outside the Heads. And, if
the first few chapters look alarmingly
technical, one quotation from near the
end should be enough to dispel any
doubts on that point. D’Ombrain
is near Broughton Island, off Port
Stephens, N. S. Wales, and just about
all the fish in the ocean, in one
tremendous paragraph, are keeping
him company:—
The surface of the sea was a boil-
ing mass of foam, and it was now
quite apparent that something was
feeding on a large school of fish.
We turned due east and approached
the edge of the turmoil. Now
dolphins could be seen rising out
of the sea and cutting through in
all directions ; then, from out of this
heaving mass, two great long tails
cleft the air, swishing violently from
side to side. There was no mistak-
ing them; they were the tails of
thresher-sharks. The men in the
launch were now all standing up
and shouting out to one another to
look at some particular place or
object. First Ron yelled to us to
look at a huge tiger-shark gliding
along past the stern, then Noel
called out that a big shape was behind
the baits. I grabbed my camera,
but was too dazed to level it at any
particular area. All round us was
a moving mass of bodies. Sharks
were there in incredible numbers —
tigers, hammerheads, whalers and
threshers were all clearly identified
—but, strangest of all, in the midst of
this battalion of terrible wolves of
the sea, swam seals, dolphins and
marlin.
The book, in fact, teems with fish
and fish-stories.
The present reviewer, for some odd
reason, particularly likes the one about
the doctor who was unable to hear the
click of the outrigger-clip as the line
snapped out when a marlin took the
bait and so fitted an explosive cap to
the mechanism —there is something
really dramatic in the thought of being
woken by a pistol-shot, out on the
drowsy waters, every time a fish hits
the line. But there is also the man who
got the line round his neck when a
marlin dashed away with it; and the
Irish visitor who, drift-fishing at Cape
Brett, caught a 24-pound snapper on
the five-pound kahawai he was
dangling to catch a swordfish; and the
young fellow, also off Cape Brett, who
reckoned he would wake the fish up
by jumping overboard for a swim
round the launch, and did, and
instantly afterwards caught a huge
mako-shark which took the bait only
50-feet under the boat.
D’Ombrain is a little disconcert-
ing to the layman—whom by this time
he has surely hooked as firmly as ever
he hooked a marlin—in insisting that
the rough days of the south-easterly,
“with clouds or even rain,” are the
best for marlin off the New South
Wales coast; nor, even though the fish
may then be seen, always hungry,
“riding the crests of the swells in the
direction of the waves,” does it add to
one’s comfort to read the harrowing
description of the sea-sickness to
which three of his stoutest friends one
day succumbed. But he can make
foggy weather at least (though then
it would be calm) almost as enchant-
ing as it is in William Hart-Smith’s
poem of Columbus in the fog;—
Within an hour we had four
strikes from marlin, but lost each
fish, mainly because they seemed to
be extremely jittery. They would
race off with the bait; then, even
when no attempt was being made to
strike them, would suddenly shoot
through the thick mist and toss it.
It was very eerie out here on the
still water with all sound muffled by
the fog, and visibility reduced to a
few yards. Every few minutes a
loud exhaling of air broke the quiet
and betrayed the presence of a
hump-backed whale... .Then a series
of loud splashes could be heard and
a school of dolphins would shoot past
on either side, some doing fancy
twists and turns in mid-air . . .
And if he apparently didn’t catch
any, and only three tried to take a bait,
at any rate he had the pleasure of
seeing 54 marlin off Port Stephens one
tranquil day. It must have been calm
again the day he investigated the
plankton with its tiny crabs in their
free-swimming stage, “no larger than
the nail of your little finger,” and its
turquoise-blue sea-lice; and cairn
again—and at any rate he was perfectly
steady on the wharf—-when at Nelson
Bay he heard the whole bay “roaring”
with mackerel.
And, rough or sensible weather, it
is all fascinating reading; the tiger-
shark caught in a net off Newcastle
that weighed 33601 b.; the 45ft. whale-
shark; the schools of tuna and
mackerel; the flights of shearwaters and
terns; the bonito that leapt out of the
water to take a lure that was dangling
over the side of the boat; the great day
Colonel Steer had with his light “tackle
off Bermagui; the marlin which Dr.
D. G. Maitland, in “the greatest hard-
luck story of the season.” so nearly
landed on a handline when he was
fishing for jewfish in Broken Bay; the
proper way to troll for kingfish . . .
It is enough. No review can go on
for ever; and this reviewer is going
down to the basement of “The Bulletin”
to see what he can catch in the Tank
Stream.
Out of Malaya
Soldier-Surgeon in Malaya (Angus
and Robertson), by Dr. Thomas
Hamilton, who was Lieut.-Colonel
R.A.A.M.C., C.O. 2/4th Australian
Casualty Clearing Station with the 2nd
A.1.F., was written in prison, partly in
Changi, partly in Burma, where he
was Senior Australian Medical Officer
on the Burma-Thailand railway.
When the prison - camps were
searched in 1943 Dr. Hamilton confided
his manuscript to a dental surgeon,
who buried it in the grave of a soldier
(Continued on page 58)


There are few industries not served by DAVID BROWN products
aaUPIfl
: '. ■ ;'. ; ■.;': ;; ■:■"'
COMMONWEALTH RAILWAYS
m
'• •
DAVID BROWN
and the
Darwin -Larrimah Rail Service
Among the many products for which David Brown is famous, pride of place must go to gear
manufacture. David Brown gears are in demand for ships, factories and vehicles throughout the
world. The air-conditioned rail cars that operate a bi-weekly service from Darwin to Larrimah
incorporate transmission gear boxes manufactured and supplied by David Brown from the famous
Park Works at Huddersfield.
No less famous in their own field are the David Brown Tractors, whose rugged and dependable
performance in all conditions is matched by their unprecedented economy in operation. The range
includes eighteen wheeled and crawler models from 12 to 70 H.P. and over 60 matched implements.
You name the job—David Brown will do it.
D 818.107,
ASTON MARTIN DIVISION /
EEL7HAM
RADICON WORM REDUCERS
fURBINE GEAR UNITS
HELICAL SINGLE REDUCING OR INCREASING GEAR UNITS
HELICAL DOUBLE OR TRIPLE REDUCING GEAR UNITS
ROLLING MILL. MINE WINDING. TUBE MILL ANO
■HAULAGE GEAR DRIVES
MARINE DRIVES
SPIRAL BEVEL UNITS
AUTOMOBILE AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLE GMMOXfIj
PATENTED WORM GEARS
GEARS Of ALL TYPES
ROLOID GEAR PUMPS'
COVENTRY GEARED MOTORi
KEIGHLEY STOCK SPUR GEARS
RROHI* ABOUND HOBS AND GEAR GENERATING CUTTERS
PATENTED FLOATING REAMERS
NOO'NOI '
NOlSlAia »V 99 NOONOT
fOUNORIES DIVISION
RENISTONE, NEAR StfEFWEIO
GENERAL GEAR DIVISION
; HUDDERSFIELD
THE DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES
AUTOMOBILE SEAR DIVISION
• HUDDERSFIELD
JACKSON DIVISION
MANCHESTER
KEI&HIEY.GEAR DIVISfON
\ HUDDERSFIELD..
MACHINE TOOL DIVISION
MANCHESTER
LAGONDA DIVISION
FELTH/ .'«f
Jj/GS t FIXTURES
GEAR JESTING EQUIPMENT
HYDRAX PRODUCTION GEAR. MOBBING MACHINE
SPUR AND HELICAL GEAR AND SPLINE MOBBING
MACHINES
GEAR SHAVING MACHINE I
RELIEVING LATHE
ALLOY And CARBON STEEL CASTING
AIRCRAFT STEEL CASTINGS
AIRCRAFT QUALITY STEEL CASTINGS
PRECISION CASTINGS
TAURUS BRONZE CASTINGS
HEAVY DUTY GEARS
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL TRACTORS
INDUSTRIAL AND MARINE ENGINES
' FARMING IMPLEMENTS
ASTON MARTIN CARS
lAGONDA CARS
DAVID BROWN (A/ASIA) PTY. LIMITED
Cnr. Derby and We the rill Streets, Lid com be, N.S.W.
Australian associate of the world-famous DAVID BROWN GROUP OF COMPANIES


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 18, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4062
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
ViCTORtA: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
AFTER IRIAN...
THE Indonesian drift towards anarchy
continues. It seems that the Indo-
nesian Government’s hand was forced
by the Communists either with or
without the secret connivance of that
arch - opportunist, Soekarno. The
Government has gone with the tide.
It has allowed the Communist-led mobs
to do the dirty work of expropriation.
It has permitted a “Youth Army” to
be created and function. It has taken
or shared the booty of the mobs
wherever it can get its hands on it.
There are some parts of Indonesia into
which its hands can’t get.
It is illustrative of the chaos that
exists in the seething mass of illegality
and rapine called Indonesia that
Sumatra seems all along to have been
in the hands of the military, who refuse
to play the game of Djakarta, and that
the Celebes and Moluccas want
nothing better than to break away
from a Government which is obviously
playing the game of world-revolution
and regards all its friends in the West
who misguidedly supported its fight to
oust the Dutch as “imperialist Powers.”
Their nationals will be tipped out like
the Dutch —and the Indonesians of
Dutch blood who seem to form the
greater part of the wretched expro-
priated—-if they open their mouths in
opposition to the prevailing party’s
policies. The freedom of speech which
Soekarno guaranteed does not exist.
The happenings in Java are alarm-
ing from an Australian viewpoint,
though few Australians seem to be
alarmed.
The fact that less than 500 miles
from the Australian coast citizens of
European blood, men, women and little
children, are being thrown out of the
land in which their families have lived
sometimes for hundreds of years,
seems to mean little to most Australians
absorbed in only what is under their
noses.
The ones who appear really
interested are the Communists and
their soft-headed followers, who
actually find something to rejoice about
in the lawlessness, theft, violence and
blackmail which operate so thoroughly
just outside their shores: a happy
portent, in fact, of what might
presently come in Australia when the
“worker” gets “justice” and is able
himself to run up the Red flag of
Russia on the buildings of private
companies in the name of “guided
democracy.”
Actually the situation, when tied-in
with the pattern of world events since
Suez and Hungary this time last year,
is ominous. The example of Suez,
set by American interference, has left
the field of violence under the exclusive
copyright of the Iron Curtain Powers.
They are making it very clear that
now they have a huge submarine force,
a superior land army and ballistic
nuclear-attack power, which they have
built up at the expense of every other
consideration of human comfort and
progress over the past 12 years; that
they intend to dominate world policy,
and that anybody who interferes will
find a hydrogen-bomb in the middle of
his capital-city.
It doesn’t matter that his threats
may go beyond his power of action;
there is no doubt that the evil wretch
who now governs from the Kremlin
momentarily dominates world politics.
He is prepared to interfere either
through direct action or through use
of the resources of his puppet States to
coyer any movement in the world
which will weaken further the prestige
and economies of the West and generate
.a little more chaos leading to the
creation of another Communist zone
in the build-up of the world revolution.
In the face of what is happening,
the diplomatic bankruptcy of the U.S.A.
policy is more and more apparent. The
Communist cause is spreading over the
world not by means of global opera-
tions but by dint of piecemeal move-
ments which Western nations can be
expected not to regard as worth the
risk of a world war. Western New
Guinea would seem to be hard to
present to the democratic populations
of the West, particularly to Com-
munist-infiltrated ones like that of
Australia, as a pretext worth even a
few rounds of ammunition. Yet behind
it there are snares which may in time
threaten the very basis of Australian
life and freedom.
Some of these are being dangled with
baits by those who support the
organisers of chaos. One such scheme
is that propounded by Dr. Evatt for
a sort of condominium under which
the Dutch, the Australian and
Indonesian Governments would run
Western New Guinea. If the Indo-
nesians accepted this and the Com-
munists later took over Indonesia we
would then find ourselves joined in an
unholy partnership with a Communist
Power directed from Moscow. This
would insist on power of administra-
tion and run the condominium by
refusing to agree to anything proposed
by the other Powers. Next would come
a demand to extend the condominium
to the rest of the trust territories of
New Guinea, and, in view of the
principles established by the first
arrangement, the U.N. might find this
hard to resist.
The West New Guinea question is
a test of Western policy and particu-
larly of the expressed American policy
of stopping Communism in its tracks
at the borderlines which it reached at
the end of last year. That policy will
live or die on the battleground of
Indonesia. If the Western world
allows the present moves to succeed,
then India will be surrounded—
Nehru’s sense of the danger is obvious
from the sudden silence which has
fallen in his usually noisy. Communist-
supporting vicinity. The main base
for the defence of South-east Asia,
Australia will be imperilled by the
building of an iron Communist barrier
between it and the Asian mainland,
apart from the threat involved of
having northern New Guinea the
stepping-stone to intimate attack on
Australia, where Communist agents are
Red-anting and breaking-down public
opinion on a scale never before known
without molestation, and in many
cases with the actual co-operation of
the authorities, who do not recognise
their disguised co-operators for what
they are.
Russia has no love for Australia,
which made it impossible for.the spy-
ring which it called an Embassy to
continue to exist in Canberra. It is
unthinkable that if a Communist
control were openly established in
Indonesia with the backing of China,
East Germany and the Czechs, with
Russia pulling the strings behind, the
close liaison which exists between the
Australian Communst party and the
Indonesian party, which was basically
organised in war-time in this country
under the tutelage of Sharkey, Dixon
and other Moscow agents, would not
be exploited.
After Indonesia, Australia is
obviously next on the Communist list.
It is the real key, as was proved in the
last war, to the defence of southern
Asia, the Indian Ocean and Western
Pacific, and Moscow will go to great
lengths to get it.
It is to be hoped that the Powers
which now profess to be operating a
global policy of defence against the
spread of Russian conquest realise this.
At present they show little sign of it.


KRAKATAO ERUPTS AGAIN


PLAIN ENGLISH
Defence Co-ordination
The report of the Morsbead Committee,
produced days only after its appoint-
ment, has not advanced the matter of
defence reorganisation very far if the
details of its views which have been
released are complete.
The main finding did not need an
inquiry—amalgamation of the depart-
ments of Defence Production and Supply
and rearrangement of the affairs of the
several services departments to prevent
overlapping.
This merely touches the fringe of the
main problem—with which the committee
was not authorised to deal. Until there
is realisation of the need for service-
command integration and a streamlining
of overall administration there will
continue to be waste and confusion of
objectives.
At present each department—Defence,
Defence-production, Supply, Navy, Army,
Air and Civil Aviation —which has a big
influence in defence operates in its own
compartment. Each naturally is intent
on seeing that the other does not secure
ascendancy in influence or an undue
share in planning. To add to this there
is conflict within the Army due to the
jealousies between permanent and citizen
soldiers and large civilian staffs, and
there is a further current of difficulty in
the fact that National Service stands
outside the military problem and tries to
serve two masters at once —the hard-
pressed employers and the requirements
of defence.
At present the rumor appears to be
rife in the services that Mr. Menzies
proposes to consider the sensible expedi-
ent of centralising power in the Defence
Department to a much greater extent
than hitherto, a move which might result
in the heavy pruning of civilian staffs —
which are another cause of conflict —in
the individual departments.
Every sort of resistance possible to this
kind of move will be organised, but it
is imperative.
The first thing that Australian defence
needs to make it effective is a clear-cut,
balanced policy settled irrespective of the
interests and privileges of any section of
the services.
The second is centralised administra-
tion and command, which we have not
got. The defence of Australia is based
at present on see-saw compromise. It
needs decisive command in the hands of
one individual or small board of broad
vision for all services, which should be
more closely integrated, and one
planning staff at his or its disposal.
There is no de facto working
commander - in - chief, though the
Governor-General holds titular overall
command ; the Prime Minister has the
last say in emergency. And those who
saw what happened at the outbreak of
the war with Japan, when policies were
decided by hysterical politicians over the
heads of separate commanders, and com-
manders were in conflict, tremble at the
thought of a repetition of the emergency.
'“’The next thing that is needed as the
corollary to centralised command and
trust in it is the establishment of service
conditions which will attract the best
men.
At present, though pay is relatively
high as compared with some private
industries, the defence services are still
Cinderella services, membership of
which involves insecurity, unsatisfactory
retiring conditions and a life of move-
ment which calls for many sacrifices.
The whole thing needs thorough
examination to bring the departmental
arrangements into line with realities. In
many matters the gaggle of Ministries
which now “control” defence still live
mentally in the 18th century.
"Y* Pays Y'r Money ...
Many Sydney people, especially those
with an abundance of loose change and
simple faith, buy two afternoon papers
rather than run the risk of missing-out on
some news of world-shaking importance
which one sheet has covered and the other
apparently hasn’t heard of.
Less-affluent or less-credulous folk take
a risk on one of the rags and treat the
poster of the other as a kind of brain-
teaser or guessing competition.
It’s fairly simple, after a little experi-
ence. If the poster of one paper shouts
“Prominent Politician Resigns” and the
reader of its rival finds no mention of
the matter in his five-penn’orth, he can
feel fairly sure that the poster didn’t
refer to Menzies, Cahill or Macmillan,
but to someone like the Minister for Slot-
machines in Ecuador.
Last week, however, there was a slight
departure from this routine of ignoring
the reptile contemporary’s scoop. When
the “Sun” announced that “Hollywood’s
most beautiful face” had been
DISFIGURED, and went on to say that
Ava Gardner had been kicked by a horse,
the “Daily Mirror” wasn’t content to make
the obvious crack about girl-kicks-horse,
but came out bluntly with the assertion
no such thing had happened and that
Ava’s face and beauty were intact.
The “Sun” reported that it was feared
that Miss Gardner’s film-career was over
and that she’d never look a camera in the
lens again. The “Mirror” riposted with
“‘Ridiculous,’ snapped Ava Gardner,”
and “ ‘What nonsense! ’ gasped three of
her friends.” Miss Gardner, it appears,
had had a slight accident “in a bull-
pasture in Spain,” but on arrival in New
York “had never looked more beautiful.”
To this the “Sun” replied with front-
page photos which appeared to show
Miss Gardner (or someone) thrown from
a horse, trampled by a bull and carried
from the field. And for those Doubting
Thomases who wanted more evidence,
there was a promise of a complete series
of pictures of the incident in “next week’s
‘Pix.’ ”
It might be thought that the “Sun”
was going to rather a lot of trouble merely
to convince the “Mirror” that its first
story had been correct; that perhaps the
same purpose could have been served
by a polite phone-call. But possibly the
“Sun” had already tried that way. The
“Mirror” itself had already gone on
record as to the difficulty of getting past
its switchboard. It had published a notice
to phone-callers telling them that it was
not the publisher of* “Crowd” and
“Weekend.”
While we can understand the indignation
which has prompted a number of callers to
telephone this office, we regret there is
nothing we can do to alter the contents of
these magazines.
The magazine CROWD is published by
the proprietors of the SUN and the
SYDNEY MORNING HERALD. WEEK-
END is published by an organisation
closely allied with the proprietors of the
SYDNEY DAILY TELEGRAPH.
Will you kindly direct your complaints to
the appropriate quarter, thus saving wear
and tear on our switchboard?
The “Mirror’s” embarrassment at hav-
ing such complaints addressed to it can
be readily understood. It is published by
the proprietors of the prim-and-proper
TRUTH.
Kia Ora Kaioa!
[From Lisle Alderton, High Commissioner for
New Zealand-, Canberra.]
I need hardly tell you that The Bulletin
has always been, during my lifetime, a
household word in New Zealand, and
although its form has changed somewhat
its great heart and affection for New
Zealand still remains.
I am just completing my term of
nearly 1\ years in this country and
return to the “Shaky Isles” on January 3
next.
My wife and I have travelled widely
over your vast continent. We have com-
pletely encircled it, even including the
coastline from Perth to Darwin and to
Thursday Island. We have been back-
wards and forwards through The Centre
by land from Darwin to Adelaide on
more than one occasion. We know your
inland thoroughly and we feel that we
know Australia and the Australians
equally well. We can leave, we hope,
hundreds of good friends in all parts of
Australia and with a deep affection for
you all.
Kia ora Katoa!
"Bulletin" Sales Up 5.2 p.c.
A CCORDING to audited figures just
released by the Audit Bureau of
Circulations, net paid circulation of The
Bulletin during the six-months period
April I—September1—September 30 showed an
increase of 5.2 per cent, compared with
the preceding six months.
The period covers the first six months
of The Bulletin in its new size, and is an
indication of the public’s response to the
new style of presentation.
The increase of 5.2 p.c. in the net paid
circulation of The Bulletin has occurred
during a time when most weekly papers
and periodicals experienced a fall in their
sales.


Big Will
Sir William Angliss, the butcher-boy
who began in a rough Australia from
scratch, has left not only the largest will
in Victorian history, but also a document
that is in itself a tribute to his common-
sense, his wide interests and understand-
ing, and his instinct fqr the right use of
money.
He left just under £4 million. After
£ly million has been paid in probate,
be provides £1 million for charities in
Victoria and Queensland, the two
States from which his wealth chiefly
derived, and he divided the remaining
£ljS million among the Angliss family
and his granddaughter, Diana Knox,
now a schoolgirl.
His sagacity and faith in his country’s
progress were indicated by a direction
that of the £1 million set aside for charity,
the income from nine-tenths should
become immediately available, but one-
tenth should be invested for 21 years and
then added to the fund.
He also remembered his staffs and his
friends with prudent appreciation of their
needs, and among them he left annuities
to Dr. Joseph Booth, the former Arch-
bishop of Melbourne, now living on
superannuation that would have been
adequate before inflation ; and to the
Prime Minister and Gilbert Chandler,
Victorian Minister for Agriculture, both
of whom had been his cobbers in the
Legislative Council.
One of the most pleasing gifts of all to
Victorians who have any knowledge at
all of Menzies is the £lOOO annuity for
him. The earnings he lost by his last 20
years of active politics would now provide
many times the annuity without effort;
as he puts it to his friends, it has made
the difference between being well-off and
not being well-off, but with retirement not
so far off now, his lifelong disdain for
money must now be fading.
Find-the-lady
While the great majority of Sydney citi-
zens, and, more importantly, Sydney
churchmen, are uninformed of it, one of
the most spirited controversies on an
intellectual level for years rages in Mel-
bourne on the proposed establishment
of a censorship board, ostensibly for
general supervision of, but in fact for the
suppression in Victoria of, the Fairfax
“Crowd” and the Packer “Weekend.”
The reason for this is that the two
publishers control most of Sydney’s daily
press and have exercised their own form
of censorship over the news from Victoria
of the hostility towards these two
publications.
Churchmen are split not on the familiar
line but on the wisdom of establishing a
censorship board which has been pro-
posed by the Council for Cultural
Standards. The council is representative
of the principal churches, and includes a
lively and literate R.C. delegate, Bishop
Fox, one of the protagonists of the sug-
gested board. Dr. Mannix, the R.C. Arch-
bishop, a nonagenarian still prepared to
box-on, was in fact the first Melburnian
to direct public attention to “Weekend”
and “Crowd.”
Other churchmen see the dangers of
the board, particularly the Rev. H.
Palmer Phillips, director of the social
services department of the Methodist
Church, who names it as a peril to the
British tradition of justice of public trial
in an open court, and S. Barton Babbage,
the Dean of Melbourne.
The dean’s view that the English law,
under which a publisher has the right to
publish whatever he likes, subject to
prosecution and conviction if the publi-
cation is either defamatory or obscene,
is upheld by the Melbourne press (while
making it plain the publications now
issuing from the Packer and Fairfax
presses are painful reading) and by
Attorney-General Rylah, who is opposed
to all forms of arbitrary censorship.
One of the awful examples opponents
of the board are able to cite is the
Queensland Board of Review set up in
1954 with powers of secret and arbitrary
suppression before publication which
would be intolerable to Australians if
they had the same lively appreciation of
civil liberty and distrust of officials as
the English.
Publishers of obscene or defamatory
matter can be prosecuted in Victoria as
expeditiously as elsewhere ; but Messrs.
Packer and Fairfax play safely with the
law. “Crowd” and “Weekend” aren’t
wicked ; they merely look enticingly so
to the young. It’s the old find-the-lady
game in a new, cheating form.
MacArthur and Morale
[From John Faarman]
I have been** meaning to pen The
Bulletin for some time to congratulate
it. Take, for instance, the black-and-
whites. Its “Satellite to earth.... ” of
October 23 and “ —current to Poly-
nesia—” of October 30 are world-class
(because The Bulletin is just that).
During World War II I was senior
Australian Army p.-r.-o. on MacArthur’s
H.Q. A Bulletin man, John Brennan,
was a charge of mine in the Philippines.
He was conscientious, tireless, and pro-
bably over-venturesome in the field.
I have always been a great General
MacArthur man. He is completely mis-
understood by people who don’t know
him, and more misunderstood by people
who have worked with him without
attempting to know the “man” (or, rather,
in addition, the soldier and politician
that he is).
MacArthur, of course, was brought out
of the Philippines to, Australia at a time
when American morale, in particular, had
reached an all-time low. They needed a
hero to worship, and MacArthur was their
stunt. It didn’t matter at the time whether
he was then a hero or not. He would
suffice with the necessary build-up.
What irked the U.S. authorities, in my
opinion, was that MacArthur lived-up to
the legend of a hero.
In my humble war-time station,
because I was in proximity and observ-
ant, I accepted MacArthur *as a hero
because of the fact.
How many people know, for instance,
that the Admiralty Islands action was
taken by MacArthur despite immediate
non-sanction by Allied Chiefs of Staff
in Washington? MacArthur undertook
the venture by sticking his own personal
neck out. The operation was one of the
really decisive s.-w. Pacific actions —it
sealed off Rabaul and paved the way to
the Philippines.
I could instance quite a few other
cases of magnitude of an heroic
character. Many not necessarily of a
military character.
During the Leyte campaign MacArthur
reported a sizeable battle around Ormoc.
There was no battle ; but because it was
Start Reading
”The Man on
the Handkerchief"
page 34
in the communique it had to be reported
by the press on the spot. They, of course,
wanted an explanation, and this is what
MacArthur said:
“The results of the [U.S.] Presidential
elections are likely to take up nearly all
space in newspapers throughout America
tomoiTow. 1 don’t think the fact that
there is in a war in the Pacific should be
obscured by transient political issues.”
Who will deny that MacArthur did
draw U S. attention to the fact that there
was a real war in the Pacific, or that
MacArthur got, because of his publicity
direction, a share of men and material
adequate initially for defence of his area,
and later for prosecution of his
campaigns?
Now, let us look back at Korea and
Communism, and that historical river
beyond which MacArthur must not go,
not even by air to blast the Communist
convoys without which Korea was lost
to Red China and Russia.
This was history’s turning-point. What
a policy!—“lf your next-door neighbor
keeps on jumping the fence with a couple
of companion-thugs, beat him off if you
can, but don’t pursue him once he’s got
back on his side of the fence.”
And that’s what the U.S. and satellites
have been doing ever since.
But, of course, MacArthur had to go.
(Now, incidentally, on that other side of
the fence, Zhukov has gone, but there’ll
be no ticker-tape reception for him in his
capital.)
Well, we have been vacillating ever
since Korea. At least we came out of
Korea with a truce. We haven’t even
managed a truce since.
But at least The Bulletin hasn’t let-up
on those bloodied Communist thugs,
whose sometime jolly meanderings
round the globe get much more publicity
in our press, etc., than Royalty ever got.
What suckers we are for the Russian
propaganda machine!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
AFTER those long months of rather
monotonous menus on the 9000-ton
tramp we looked forward immensely to
our Christmas dinner. At San Francisco
the word went around that the Old Man
had gone ashore to the shipping-com-
pany’s offices to pick up 200 dollars, the
sum granted for our special Christmas
delicacies. He came back three days
later minus the two-hundred, and
although “Doc,” the cook, did his best,
our dinner was not what it should have
been. This captain loved wine, women
and song, and his wife may have heard
about his escapades ; anyway she joined
the ship and stayed on board for nine
months,- during which period he wasn’t
allowed to drink anything but milk. It
didn’t give us back our Christmas dinner,
but it was a consolation. —“D. 8.”
“A.”: The “Messiah”-season is again
with us; from church-hall to Town Hall
Mr. C’s, Mr. G’s and Dr. S’s versions are
being aired. In fact, it would seem to be
sacrilege these days to refer to the
oratorio as Handel’s: it’s largely for-
gotten that “Messiah” is chamber-music
and as such demands a small choir (30-
40 voices) with a (virtuoso) string-
orchestra. One shudders to imagine the
first Handel Festival, in Westminster
Abbey, when no fewer than 275 voices
wallowed through “Messiah.” We’re
more civilised now; I lately went to a
Sydney performance where the choir was
a mere 150-strong.
“0.G.”: Over a Christmas-drink a
ruthless sub-editor said, “I spent my last
holidays pruning trees.” “And when you
had finished your pruning,” said a frus-
trated freelance, “I'll bet there were still
a few roots left in the ground.”
“Maitri”: How silent and maybe holy
the night would be if so many radios were
not blaring “Silent Night, Holy Night!”
“Narumee”: Christmas shopping:
overheard at the gift counter: “Well, it
isn’t really what I wanted, but as it isn’t
for me, I'll take it.”
“Sandra”: Our Christmas dinner con-
sists of chicken, plum-pudding and
mince-pies, because my husband, an
Englishman, insists on mince-pies. The
English have never stopped eating mince-
pies. Samuel Pepys, on Christmas Day,
1666, rose early, “leaving my wife desir-
ous to sleep, having sat up till four this
morning seeing her mayds making mince
pies.” In my household there are six
extremely hungry mouths to feed and no
mayd to help, so the time-wasting titbits
must be prepared in advance. But where
will I hide the blasted things? One of
my friends managed to keep an apple-pie
for two days on top of her wardrobe, but
I think I will hide my mincies in the
tool-chest, because when I caif persuade
a man to open his tool-chest at Christmas-
time, that will be the day!
“C.W.S.”: Noticed a bloke not far
from where Santa Claus was nursing the
kids having a whale of a time with a
remote-controlled battery-operated robot.
My raised eyebrows brought this infor-
mation : “I was hoping I’d have an electric
train to play with this year, but the young
bloke is over there asking for one of these.
She’ll do. She’ll do.” And he went on
having the time of his life.
“Lorna Doone”: Father Christmas is
getting a thorough workout in our
emporium; he is written to, beseeched
in person and, as befits this modern day,
rung-up on the telephone! One lad, after
a very modest request for himself, wound
up with, “And, Santa, do you think you
could remember to bring a bottle of beer
for Dad?”
“Roomy”: Elderly friend in London
wrote that she had been to “Summer of
the Seventeenth Doll.” “I have seen
‘Jedda,’ too,” she ended, “so I really
feel I know quite a lot about Australia.
Take care of yourself, won’t you?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“P. Bagman”: Those S.A. driving-
licences: my Baglady has driven many
thousands of miles —behind horses and
(last year) donkeys. Early this year she
obtained a leaflet from a desert police-
station, learned the answers, attended a
Sunday-morning session and answered
several of the traffic questions involved
on paper (with the help of the examining
officer), and paid a quid. Shortly after-
wards she received her “certificate of
competence,” which would enable her to
drive a Jaguar through the heart of
Adelaide if we had a Jaguar. She still
can’t efficiently drive a car, and wouldn’t
dare take one on to a public road alone.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Theadora”: The Art Class were sent
along to a Collins Street shop to sketch
their impressions of a well-dressed
window draped in pink velvet. It con-
tained one model frock, an orchid-pink
hat and a few accessories. The woman
next to me stared for a while, then began
sketching rapidly. When I had finished,
I glanced at her work and was surprised
to find that she was just completing a
very sketchy drawing of the window, for
she was considered to be one of the
most competent in the class. Then she
slid another drawing from underneath
the first, and showed me a sketch of the
hat, almost full-size, with every detail
correct including notes on colors and
materials. “Not bad, eh?” she said with
a smile. “It’ll cost only two pounds to
make against fifteen guineas in the shop.
I’ve got to convince that husband of mine
that these art-classes are worth paying
for.”


"VTATURE is full of little surprises;
so were the entries in the Male
Solo section, Own Choice, of our
Eisteddfod. Great, tall cadaverous indi-
viduals might produce a voice like a
frightened alto, and little fellows a voice
so deep that it really seemed to cofiie
from their boots. One hefty gentleman
had a voice so light you wondered how he
called the kids home when he got really
het-up. There were those who stood with
hands straight beside them, coat un-
buttoned. Others who sang with one
hand in the pocket. One fixed his fingers
in a pose as of one caressing a tankard,
and one gorgeous acreage of a man
spread his arms wide and invited the
audience to enjoy with him the glories of
song.—“Rayrne.”
♦x* >:•
“Sevenelms”: “Fair Mac's” quotation
from a talkie that “you can’t tell
a schoolmarm much” (B. 4/12 / ’57)
doesn’t refer to academic sophistication.
On the American frontiers she was so
often the only unhitched filly as to become
the symbol of desirable femininity. At the
Boulder Dam opening the President of
the United States examined the polished
surface of the rock-hewn tunnel to the
generators and asked just what fineness of
finish had been stipulated. Replied the
engineer-in-charge, a typical son of the
West, “We specified it to be as smooth as
a schoolmarm’s leg, and if we remember
our geography that was pretty darn
smooth.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: At a bon voyage
party the farewelled were making their
first trip to Europe, and the boss of the
couple approached me, having made
sure that her husband was out of earshot.
“Tell me, dear,” she whispered, “about
these Continental drinks . . . George has
to be careful, you know. Two bottles of
beer are all he can stand. How many
bottles of schnapps or vodka can I safely
allow him?”
"Chicken!”
“Kate”: Never thought I’d see the day
when you could get 15 pennies change
for a shilling, but at the Caul-
field (Vic.) centenary a “land-a-
penny-on-a-number” sideshow did a
brisk trade with just that. I must say that
for all their generosity none of our party
/eft any the richer.
*> ♦> »!♦
“Doynest”: The Bench was puzzled at
Carlton (Vic.) when a machine-operator
pleaded guilty to having pinched 116
dozen pairs of socks from the mill where
he was employed. It was alleged that he
took socks home nearly every week for
two years and kept them in his room:
he didn’t sell them or give them away
and couldn’t have worn out more than a
few dozen in the time. Evidence was
given that he was single, did not drink or
smoke, had no girl-friends, and rarely
left his room. Fining him eighty quid,
the Bench remarked : “I wonder what you
are doing keeping alive,” and suggested
that he find “a nice girl to keep him on
the straight and narrow.” And what
nice girl wouldn’t—if he'd switch from
socks to stockings?
♦♦♦ .*4 .+4
“Wusslean”: The Minister for Immi-
gration says a new type of Australian pass-
port, to be issued early next year, will
substitute the words “Her Majesty Eliza-
beth the Second, Queen of the United
Kingdom and of Australia and of Her
other Realms and Territories” for the
phrase: “Her Britannic Majesty.” In
keeping, I suppose, with the alterations
around our coins: a George V coin bore
the words: “Georgius V. D. G. Britt.
Onin. Rex F.D. Ind. Imp.” while our
current coins simply state: “Elizabeth 11.
Dei Gratia Regina F.D.” Never mind ;
the narrower her Majesty’s possessions,
the wider her subjects’ scope for foreign
travel.
♦♦♦ ❖
“Siosal”: Noting in Dorothy Catts’s
biography of King O’Malley that “the
bald-headed eagle from the Rocky
Mountains” gave his birth-year as 1854,
I’m reminded that his age and birthplace
were the only subjects he was reticent
about. “King,” I said once, “how old are
you?” “Brother,” he replied, “you
mustn’t ask me that.” “You’re too late,”
I said; “I’ve already asked you.” “Well,
brother,” the old-timer declared flatly,
“I won’t tell you.” Incidentally, a Sydney
“Herald” columnist ran a par. beginning
“I hear that there is to be a book out on
the life of King O’Malley,” whereas that
venerable paper had reviewed the book
a couple of weeks previously. Of course,
as Matthew Arnold said, one can’t always
be reading one’s own writings.
♦l* *
“Pip Tok”: “Sousa” (B. 20/11 /’57)
is astray in his chronology when he says
a hundred years separate the youngest
from the oldest regiment of the Household
Brigade. Though the Grenadiers won
their present designation by scuppering
the grenadiers of Napoleon’s Imperial
Guard at Waterloo, the regiment was
THE MIGHT-HAVE-BEEN
“A twelve-year-old schoolgirl will get about
£1 million and the Prime Minister, Mr. Menzies,
will receive £lOOO a year from the £3,932,542
estate of Sir William Angliss.”
If only Uncle Bob had been
A schoolgirl not yet turned thirteen
He might have had a million quid
Instead of doing as he did
And being cut-off with a mere
Thousand smackers once a year.
He might have learned to cook and yen
Or hockey, or play vigoro,
Or daydream of the happiness
Of wearing his first topless dress;
But he was made of sterner stuff,
These luxuries were not enough.
No less would satisfy him than
To condescend to be a man
And even wrestle in the dirt
With vulgar men like Ed. and Bert:
Such sacrifices statesmen make
For our, and for A ustralia’s, sake.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“ Remember , Cindie, the transport crew clock-off at twelve sharp!”
formed in the Belgian city of Bruges as
long ago as 1656. At first styled the
Royal Regiment of Guards, they were
known as the Ist Regiment of Footguards
after the Restoration. The 3rd Battalion
of the Grenadiers was the first Regular
infantry regiment to be associated with
Australians on active service—at Suakin
in 1885, when the infantry battalion of
the N.S.W. Sudan Contingent was
brigaded with the Grenadiers. The oldest
regiment of the Footguards is the Scots
Guards, formed by the Marquis of
Lome, and then styled the Argyle
Regiment, in' 1640 for service in Ireland.
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦>
“Zorok”: When a new shopping-
centre opened in our Sydney suburb the
drycleaner in the block offered free dry-
cleaning for all customers on his opening
day. One of the first into the shop for
the buckshee clobber-sprucing was old
Liverwort, who, running a drycleaning
agency in conjunction with his own busi-
ness, had until then held the suburb's
monopoly of the trade.
* ►> *:*
“Myall”: Screwed to the bar-room
wall of a Dalby (Q.) hotel is a large
picture-frame in which are pasted
numerous dishonored cheques. Beneath
the frame is a card reading:
As man to man is so* unjust,
How can I tell whom I can trust?
I’ve trusted many—to my sorrow,
You pay today: I’ll pay tomorrow!
No one asks for credit in that pub!
❖ ❖ ♦>
“A.H.L.”: - The story of the defendant
being empanelled as a juryman (B.
27/11 /’57) reminds me of when Mr.
Justice Martin was taking excuses in
Melbourne and on a name being called
a woman went into the box and stated
that her husband could not attend. Very
sternly the judge asked “Why?” To
which the wife in loud voice replied:
“ ’Cause he’s in Pentridge.”
“Q. Ree”: Remembrance Day is com-
memorated in Fiji in much the same way
as Anzac Day is at home. On the Sunday
after Armistice Day in our community
a parade of ex-Servicemen, Cadets, Boy
Scouts, Junior Red Cross girls and Girl
Guides is followed by a Remembrance
Service, then the laying of wreaths at
the flag-draped base of our Memorial
Flagstaff. This year our fully-kilted
Scot led the parade with his pipes, and
later played the bugle for the Last Post
and Reveille. The ex-Servicemen were
mainly Fijians, but included part-
Europeans (including one New Austra-
lian) and two Australian ex-Servicemen.
❖ ❖ *
“Ceg”: “Nig” is right (B. 4/12/’57) on
the subject of bottle-ohs v. Boy Scouts.
It’s better to stick to the professional
gentleman. A small Boy Scout, who used
to call for my modest store of empties,
usually one sherry-bottle a week, rather
took the wind out of my sails on a day
when there was nothing for him. He
was obviously disappointed and said, in
an incredulous tone, “Aren’t you drinking
any more?” A plain “Yes” or “No”
hardly seemed the right answer.
♦t*
“Nunk”: I had exactly the Is. 3d. fare
home from Sydney to Randwick when I
took my usual way to the Quay with a
bag holding the usual two bottles of
plonk and,one of the heaviest biographies
I ever- carried or read. And it wasn’t
until I was fishing for my fare on the
tram that I realised that, as usual, I had
smiled as usual at the paper-seller and
said what a pleasant day it had been as
I bought my fivepenny evening paper:
that was why I had to get off at Taylor
Square, trudge to Moore Park, past the
Showground and across Centennial Park,
the bottles and biography growing heavier
and heavier. . . It just shows that being a
creature of habit doesn’t save you.
<5» «£•
“C.W.0.”: Two of Melbourne’s hand-
written posters: One, outside the Town
Hall, advertises the R.S.L. Women’s
Council's Christmas Fair. At the bottom
in large letters: “No Admission.”
Around the corner, up Collins Street in
the Assembly Hall, we find that Call to
Youth presents “‘To Each a Gift’ in
Heart-Warming Technicolor” “With
Fool Supporting Program.”
❖ ❖ *
“D.J.G.”: In the radio-section of our
daily:
The risks that girls take when they pick
up strange men will be stressed in tonight's
edition of the gripping police series....
It’s all very well to warn the girls, but
it strikes me as unfair that time on the
air is not devoted occasionally to features
warning us of the risks we run when we
pick up strange girls—or especially
familiar ones.
"He may be a great painter, but he seems to have a one-track mind.”


NAT GOULD CENTENARY
Sales Top Thirty Million!
By JAMES HOLLEDGE
SATURDAY, December 21, is the
centenary of the birth of Nat
Gould. A rotund little man with
a handlebar moustache, he coined
a fortune by pouring out some 130 racing
thrillers ; one of the greatest best-sellers
of all time. His novels, many still in
print, have notched sales of more than
30 million.
At least half his books have back-
grounds of Australian racing—Nat
Gould was an English journalist who
spent 11 years here in the heyday of our
sporting history, between 1884 and 1895 ;
a golden age of Australian racing, boxing,
sculling, foot-running; the era of Larry
Foley and his famous White Horse Hotel,
of Griffo, of scullers Beach and Searle, of
Peter Jackson, and all the other
immortals.
And through those years of stirring
sport-drama stalked the chunky, friendly
figure of Nat Gould, observing and
noting. He lived a decade in the hurly-
burly of a sporting journalist's round in
the most sports-conscious land on earth.
Then he went home and recreated the
experiences and atmosphere in fiction
that made him the household word he
still is to this day.
-I- +
BORN in Manchester on December 21,
1857, Nathaniel Gould was the son
of a prosperous tea-merchant. He tried
both business and farming and found he
had no inclination for either. A relative
wangled him a post as “editor’s pupil”
on a provincial newspaper, the Newark
“Advertiser,” and he stayed there 12
months learning the rudiments of
journalism.
Then, with his fare borrowed from his
mother, at 27 he sailed for Australia on
the Liguria to try his luck. He landed in
Sydney, but within a couple of days was
off to Queensland, having secured an
advertised job as chief reporter on the
Brisbane “Telegraph.”
Brisbane to Nat Gould meant sunshine,
swimming, fishing, and romance with a
local girl, Elizabeth Ruska, whom he
married within a year. By that time his
flair for sports-reporting had been spotted,
and he was making a name. He moved
back to Sydney, got a job with the
“Referee,” and as “Verax” became one
of the most knowledgeable and influential
racing-scribes in the business.
A stout, jovial bon vivant, Gould was
a popular figure round Sydney clubs and
saloon-bars. He lived in Pitt Street,
Redfern, and each morning hiked three
miles over the sandhills for the track-
trials at Randwick, and then back again
for breakfast.
In town he invariably dropped in for
a shave at Joe Phillips's barber-shop in
Market Street. Under the trade-name of
“Joseph” the proprietor conducted a
well-known doubles-book ; one of the few
reputable operators in what was then
generally a racket.
Gould, a notoriously unlucky gambler,
one morning produced a sovereign and
took 400 to 1 the double Wild Rose and
Highborn in the Newmarket and Aus-
tralian Cup. When they duly rolled home
he wasted no time getting down to
Market Street to collect.
As he walked into the shop, the ceiling,
fell in. Minutes later, standing knee-
deep among the dust and debris, Joe
Phillips spied his smiling face in the
doorway.
“Cripes,” said Joe, “look who’s here!
No wonder the roof fell in—Nat Gould
backed a winning double.”
Another of Nat Gould’s Sydney cronies
was owner-trainer Dan O'Brien, the man
who bought Carbine as a yearling and
made the mistake of selling him to
Donald Wallace for 3000gns., thus for-
feiting a fortune. O'Brien kept open
house for Sydney at his palatial
Randwick residence, Mount Vernon. It
-was equipped with a high lookout-tower
from which a good view of all parts of
the racecourse could be obtained. A
former New Zealand jockey, O’Brien
seemed to have an uncanny sixth-sense
that told him when a secret track-trial
was being held. The only way to dodge
him and his powerful field-glasses was to
gallop a horse in the dark.
Nat Gould used to claim that O'Brien
was the only man in the world who ever
clocked a track-trial with an egg-boiler.
He did it one morning when, perched in
his tower ready to time two horses just
about to start a gallop, he found his stop-
watch was out of order. Dan yelled to a
servant to bring up the egg-timer, and as
the horses jumped he set the sand running.
When they flashed past the finish, he put
the timer down flat on its side; then,
as soon as he got another stop-watch he
turned up the egg-timer again and
“clocked” the sand as it ran back. He
got correct time for the gallop to a tick.
+ +
IN 1889 the editor of the “Referee” men-
tioned casually to Nat Gould that he
could use an exciting, action-packed
racing-serial of about six or seven
episodes, and Nat went home and set to
work on the first chapter of “With the
Tide,” a thriller plotted round the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Actually it had no plot at all—or rather
only the one Gould gave it as it went
along. He began it with the sentence:
“Nobody knew exactly who Jack Marston
was.” He might well have added—“not
even the author of this serial.” The story
proved popular, and Nat kept it going
for 42 chapters ; he only ended it then
at the urgent request of the “Referee”
editor, who feared it was becoming a
fixture.
Sent to a London publisher, the story
was brought out under the title “The
Double Event,” and Nat Gould was
launched on the popular-fiction treadmill.
In Australia the story was dramatised,
and Nat cleaned-up well when it ran
successfully in Sydney and Melbourne
theatres. He continued to report im-
portant race-meetings, but his main
interest was the more profitable thrillers
that he began to pour out at the rate of
four a year.
+ +
TN 1891 Nat went to see the running
■ of Melbourne Cup with his friend
James Redfearn, of Warwick Farm, who
had Malvolio entered. When the horse
duly won, the celebration-party continued
all the way back to Sydney by train. On
arrival the then-wilting roisterers trooped
otf homewards. Not until they were piling
into <cabs* outside the station did Nat
Gould remember what they had left in
the train. He sprinted back, located the
right carriage and bore triumphantly, if
a little shakily, back to its proud owner
the gleaming Melbourne Cup trophy.
In 1895 Nat decided to return to
England. He always intended to see Aus-
tralia again, but the feverish fiction-
writing to keep pace with his expensive
tastes chained him to a desk at home.
Publishers could not cope with his
output. When he died he was 28 novels
ahead. They were brought out every
three months for the next seven years.
No other writer gave horse-racing such
a publicity fillip or better demonstrated
the triumph of good over evil than Nat
Gould. His stories of wicked racecourse
crooks foiled by honest men and virtuous
women gripped attention from the open-
ing page. Church authorities said they
could “be safely put in the hands of any
youth or girl.”
He wrote everything in longhand, yet
at a pinch he could finish a book in a
fortnight. “I never trouble about any
particular plot,” he once said. “I just
write away till I bring the tale to its
proper end.”
Nat Gould died in July, 1919. Because
of his lavish spending he left only £7797,
but his heirs have since continued to
collect handsome royalties and will go on
doing so for quite a few years.


POLITICAL POINTS
The identity of the man in the Hom-
burg hat and striped pants who was seen
around Wagga last week to the puzzle-
ment of all parties shouldn’t have pre-
sented any mystery at all. Obviously he
was the floating voter they were all so
anxious to catch.
• •
Not all Tasmanians are happy at the
prospect of the Bass Strait vehicular-ferry
now being built. The road authorities
foresee huge semi-trailers from the main-
land damaging their roads, and in Laun-
ceston there is some dismay that the ferry
terminal is to be at Devonport. Cosgrove
claims that as business grows there will
have to be two more terminals —in the
Tamar, near uaunceston, and at Burnie.
But when?
• •
A cable on the Indonesian situation
reported that British subjects had been
advised to apply for exit-permits for
their “wives, children and other un-
essential dependants.” That seems a
rather wide coverage. How would
officialdom define an essential' dependant?
• •
Early in the New Year the radiophysics
people of C.5.1.R.0. expect to know
exactly what their vast new radio-
telescope will look . like. (The British
one near Manchester was turned, before
completion, on to the sputniks and did a
remarkable job.) The design-study for
the Australian instrument has been com-
pleted in London, and will be considered
by an Australian technical committee
before final approval. A good site has
been found south-west of Sydney, but
there’s a possibility of a switch to
Canberra.
• •
An inquisitive member asked for a
full list of boards and committees under
Federal Government or Parliamentary
authority. He got it—and it filled nearly
15 pages in “Hansard.”
• •
Freeth, M.H.R. for Forrest, has made
an interesting suggestion regarding the
Australian War Memorial in Egypt,
damaged by Egyptian mobs during the
Suez trouble last year. After Casey had
told a questioner that so far no informa-
tion or satisfaction had been received
from the Egyptian Government concern-
ing the outrage, Freeth asked him to con-
sider a proposal to remove the memorial
to Albany (W.A.), the port from which
the first convoy of the A.I.F. sailed in
1914.
Very belatedly the Vic. Minister for
Public Works has issued an- interim
development-order to preserve the natural
beauty of the Dandenongs from indis-
criminate subdivisions for housing. Like
so many of the nation’s residential areas
in beauty spots, ribbon-development
already has marred the Dandenongs.
This is a case of shutting the door after
the builders have bolted.
• - •
British Labor leader Hugh Gaitskell
clid a real service for his country and the
Western world when he explained to
African and Asian members of the Com-
monwealth the motives of Nato. He told
them that U.N. was unable to give any
sure guarantee that an individual country
would be protected from aggression and
that this fundamental fact justified
collective-defence pacts such as Nato. He
did not believe that non-violence and
unilateral disarmament would ever stop
aggression ; at present it would mean the
end of. free Europe.
Gaitskell reminded advocates of
“armed non-alignment” that such a
policy had not saved Norway, Denmark,
Holland or Belgium in 1940. The
scrapping of Nato would mean either
that America would have to protect West
Europe without any contribution from
the countries protected or else abandon
it to the mercy of Russia..
India, he said, was protected by the
highest mountain barrier in the world
and did not feel itself threatened by the
Soviet or China. Its decision not to
align itself with the West was under-
standable, but if India wished to play
the role Of mediator between the two
blocs it should remember that this called
for a full understanding of all points of
view “and the respect and confidence of
both sides.”
• •
Unsuccessful attempts to get U.S.
satellites into an orbit and long-range
missiles on to their target are giving
American scientists plenty of the wrong
sort of publicity. Still, no one knows
how many duds the Russians fired before
Sputnik I began to circle the globe,
despite their claim to have struck the
jackpot at the first attempt. Moreover,
the Yanks have at least learnt the value
of caution in their publicity ; they’re now
very careful to precede each test-shot
with a warning that it probably won’t
come off.
• •
Dr. J. H. Botha and Dr. C. V. von
Abo, South African Railways Com-
missioners, looked over Victorian Rail-
ways just as the best of all deficits, £5
million, was announced. They were so
surprised that they remarked mildly it
was strange the railways weren’t run on
a commercial basis as they are in South
Africa, where they more-or-less make a
profit.
Members of all parties welcomed the
suggestion put forward on the closing
day of the session by A. S. Luchetti,
Chiffey’s successor in Macquarie, that
the Government should establish a
national fire-fighting organisation.
Luchetti had plenty of heartbreak to tell
of after the fires swept through Blue
Mountains towns in his electorate. His
plea was for an immediate conference
between Commonwealth and State
l authorities on the framework of the
organisation to handle the problem.
Luchetti argued that what had occurred
in the Blue Mountains could be repeated
any time this summer in any part of
Eastern Australia. The inter-State nature
of the problem indicated a measure of
Commonwealth responsibility, he argued,
and mobilisation of the armed services
equipped *with full-time fire-fighting units
should be one of the first considerations
of a top-level; conference.
• •
“Wusslean”: Whatever it may lack in
the shape of finance for its proposed
second university at Melbourne, the
Victorian Government certainly can’t
complain of any dearth of ideas about a
suitable site. Albert Park, the Kew
Asylum, the Jolimont railway-yards,
Pentridge Jail, the outer eastern or south-
eastern suburbs, are a few of the more
obvious suggestions. Whatever the
ultimate choice, the Government would
be wise to put through the necessary legis-
lation at top speed. There’s to be a State
election at the end of May, and Victoria
doesn't want a repetition of the ring-a-
ring-a-rosy proceedings that tangled-up
the selection of an Olympic Games site.
• •
H. C. Barnard, who died early this
month, was Minister for Repatriation in
the Chifley Government. He held the
Bass seat from 1934 until the landslide
against Labor in 1949 and after his defeat
entered State politics, winning the Bass
Assembly seat which he retained till his
death. His son Lance put the family
back in the Federal Parliament in 1954
when he recaptured his father’s old seat
from the Libs.
• •
In the closing hours of the Victorian
Assembly session, the Opposition asked.
Bolte to produce the Bread Reform Bill
which had been mutilated by Labor and
the Country parties in the Council in the
interests of the trade-unions and the
bakers.
Everyone in the House knew the Oppo-
sition was whistling in the dark, because
it had connived at preventing house-
holders getting better quality and better
delivery in bread ; and good bread is an
issue that every voter can understand.
• •
Staniforth Ricketson, the Melbourne
investment financier and broker, has
backed-up The Bulletin’s big question:
Why didn’t the Federal Government avoid
humiliation on the banking bills by intro-
ducing the reforms when it had working
majorities in both Houses between April,
1951, and July, 1956?


Although preferences in the Wagga
by-election will not be until
later in the week, a win for Liberal can-
didate W. C. Fife is a foregone con-
clusion. AH parties had conceded this
long before counting closed on Saturday
night. Final figures for the night were
Cook (Ind.), 218; Fife (Lib.), 5269 ;
Graham (Lab.), 5374; Kennedy (D.L.P.),
1941 ; Lainpe (C.P.), 2189 ; O’Donoghue
(Jnd.), 86 ; Skeers (Ind.), 91.
Fife was then only 105 votes behind
Graham. Both the Country party and
the D.L.P. had placed him second on
their how-to-vote cards, and an unofficial
scrutiny showed that a majority of their
supporters had kept to the cards.
In comparison with the Saturday-night
tally at last year’s general election the
A.L.P. vote was down 3740. Votes for
the D.L.P. and Independent candidates
accounted for only 2336 of the drop. The
combined Liberal and Country-party
vote was 1604 higher.
The D.L.P. vote was not spectacular.
At the same time a vote of similar dimen-
sions at a general election would cost the
A.L.P. more than a handful of seats.
Country-party hopes of a swingback
to the days before Eddie Graham, when
a C.P. man held Wagga, were sadly
dashed. There should be no question
of two Opposition candidates standing at
the general election.
• •
Sydney dailies chose to regard the by-
election as Pat Morton’s final chance to
justify himself as Liberal leader. It was,
of course, nothing of the sort, butNjy
their own reasoning perhaps the result
may induce them to lay-off the man for a
while.
,• •
Eisenhower is the first American
President to visit France since Woodrow
Wilson went to Versailles in 1919. In a
brief speech on his arrival he sounded the
keynote for the Nato meeting.
It is’for us, together, to determine whether
men shall continue to live in freedom
and in dignity or whether they are to
become mere vassals of an all-powerful
State.
Wilson took with him to Paris a
blurred blueprint for an ideal world
which didn’t eventuate. Eisenhower,
Macmillan and their colleagues, with the
knowledge of all that has happened’ since
1919, will set themselves a less grandiose
but more practical goal—the strengthen-
ing of Nato and the reassuring of some
of its wavering members. A hard enough
task, but a very necessary one.
• •
With a bare majority of one after
Appointing the Speaker, Walter Nash’s
new Government was sworn-in in
Wellington on Thursday. The New
Zealand Parliament will be opened on
January 21.
• •
At the moment Indonesia’s chief export
seems to be conflicting reports. Dutch
industries are being seized by workers
wearing red armbands or by soldiers to
prevent them being seized by workers
wearing red armbands. The Dutch are
being told alternately that they all have
to go or that they don’t all have to go.
Soekarno has either been deposed or is
going abroad for health reasons or hasn’t
been deposed and isn’t going abroad or
is going to be deposed or will shortly be
going abroad. Business is either going
on as usual or is in chaos, and although
Djakarta is said to be running short of
rice the whole mixture seems to add up
to a very hot Java curry.
• •
Victorian Taxpayers’ Association ' has
renewed its request for an independent
inquiry into the growing number of Aus-
tralians working for State and Federal
Governments or Government instrumen-
talities ; the latest figures show that in the
year to September 30 three such jobs had
been found for every one added to private
employment.
The association is satisfied with Sir
Leslie Morshead as chairman of the
inquiry committee set up in Canberra,
but not with the appointment of depart-
mental delegates as his lieutenants. It
seems that empire-building within the
departments continues as one of Can-
berra’s most favored industries.
On the eve of the Nato talks Moscow
sent Notes to the leading Western Powers
suggesting negotiations to ease world
tension and Notes to smaller Powers
warning them of the possible consequences
of permitting U.S. bases on their soil.
• •
A Greek resolution urging negotia-
tions towards self-determination for
Cyprus was carried by the political com-
mittee of U.N. and sent on to the
General Assembly. There the vote was
31-23, but fell short of the two-thirds
majority needed for adoption.
• •
Indonesia has always insisted that it
claims only the territories that were
formerly included in the Dutch East
Indies, but now its rulers have suddenly
proclaimed their sovereignty over a vastly
extended area of “territorial waters,”
including sea-lanes which have been inter-
national trade-routes for centuries. They
can’t get away with it, of course, but the
action exposes the falsity of Soekarno's
claim that his country seeks no rights that
Holland did not have.
LOST IN THE FOREIGN-POLICY DESERT


PERSONAL ITEMS
Wal Taylor, who has passed on in
Sydney, will be missed by a great many
people, particularly artists and connois-
seurs of art: his Grpsvenor Galleries in
George Street North have shown the
work of a great many painters over the
years, and, particularly in the last decade,
provided a valuable counterpoise to some
of the more extreme fashions in painting.
He served in World War I, and, after
demobilisation, studied bookbinding at
the Goldsmiths’ College in London, at the
L.C.C. College in Holborn, and under
Douglas Cockrell, perhaps the greatest
authority in England in bookbinding.
The type of work in which he specialised
was bookbinding de luxe, or —as he
preferred to call it —“permanent book-
binding.”
In this department of the craft there
has been little change since medieval
times, when monks turned-out exquisite
workmanship in Missals, Psalters and
Books of the Hours. After War I Wal
Taylor was commissioned to prepare a
book for the then Duke and Duchess of
York, studded with turquoise and pearls,
set in gold, and his services were again
called for during the visit of the present
Queen Australia.
• •
Dr. K. L. Sutherland, assistant-chief of
the C.5.1.R.0. Division of Industrial
Chemistry and leader of its Physical
Chemistry Division, has been awarded the
H. G. Smith Memorial Medal. The medal
is awarded annually by the Royal Aus-
tralian Chemical Institute to the member
of the institute who, in the opinion of the
R.A.C.I. council, has contributed most to
the development of some branch of
chemical science.
• •
Two more Q.C.s were appointed in
Victoria last week, George Lush and
Keith Aickin, indicating a very healthy
financial state in law and a picture rather
different frorh the immediate post-war
years, when barristers were complaining
they made less than they paid their
gardeners.
George Lush practises in commercial
law, chiefly shipping, company law and
international trade. After he was admitted
in 1935 he a was a lecturer in mercantile
law at the University for nine years, and
he served in the Middle East and New
Guinea with the 2/3rd Machine Gun
Battalion and the 2/43rd Battalion.
Taxation, company and constitutional
law occupy Keith Aickin, who is now
one of the city’s notable equity lawyers.
He won the Supreme Court prize before
he graduated Master of Laws in 1939,
was associate to the present Chief Justice,
Sir Owen Dixon, and on Sir Owen’s staff
when he was Minister to Washington
during the war.
Five Q.C.s had already been appointed
this year. There are now 63 on the Vic-
torian list, but this includes such famous
names as Dixon, Menzies and Fullagar ;
probably fewer than 50 are,.-in practice.
The taking of silk is a financial risk for a
barrister, since his fees rise appreciably
and he employs a junior. In the hungry
’thirties many barristers declined the
honor.
• •
New Zealand’s new Prime Minister,
Walter Nash (herewith), had to wait a
long time for the honor which he has now
achieved at the age of 75. He has been a
member of Parliament for 28 years
straight, has been a Minister and Deputy
Prime Minister, and had a hand in draft-
ing much of the former Labor Govern-
ment’s legislation. As a Minister, he was
NEW P.M.
best known as Minister of Finance,
which portfolio he held for 14 years, but
he was also, at various times, Minister for
Marketing, Customs and Social Security.
• •
“Sister Ellell”: An unusual 21st-birth-
day party was given recently at the North
Mine Residence, Broken Hill, 40 celebrate
that number of years of medical practice
by Dr. Francesca Schlink. Ziska to her
friends, hailing from Wodonga (Vic.) and
her degrees from the Melb. Uni., she has
endeared herself to all who have come
in contact with her, and many the woman
has had reason to be grateful for her
knowledge and experience in obstets. and
gynaecology.
I was training in getting young Aus-
tralia off the production-line in “the Hill,”
and many times I was glad to see her come
into labor-ward with the seemingly care-
less “What the hell’s wrong? Can't you
manage?” Then she’d take over.
The party was a mixture of the medical
and mining fraternity, and the present-
opening was a delight. The givers kept
it amusing and foolish, went to a lot of
trouble to find the apt word and con-
tainer, and raised a lot of laughter. The
one that amused me most was a bottle of
arrack, labelled “Take two tablespoons
of this, and you’ll be back where you were
21 years ago!”
• •
Reg Inglis, passed on in Sydney at 77,
was known wherever Australians talked
about racehorses. A grandson of the
Inglis who founded the firm of William
Inglis and Son, Reg Inglis went straight
from Sydney Grammar into the family
business, beginning by selling pigs and
calves at the foot of Pyrmont Bridge, and
handling the dispersal of the Segenhoe
thoroughbred stud in 1918. Since then,
until his retirement from the more active
part of the business (carried on by his
sons), Reg Inglis concentrated on
thoroughbreds and fat cattle. He wielded
the hammer when Shannon was sold (for
26,000 guineas), Heroic (for 16,000
guineas), Heroic’s sire and dam, Valais
and Chersonese, his son Ajax, and Ajax's
son, Magnificent. Thoroughbred bargains
he knocked-down cheap were Windbag
and David, and at the Trentham (N.Z.)
sale in 1928 he disposed of a rather
scraggy-looking Night Raid colt for 170
guineas—Phar Lap, winner of £66,738
in stake-money.
• •
D. M. Arnold, new Supervisor of the
Bank of New South Wales Savings Bank,
took over his duties at the bank’s head-
office in Sydney last week. He joined the
Western Australian Bank in Perth in
1925, transferred to the Wales in 1929,
and was in Catalinas (Pacific Coast,
Philippines, Borneo, China Sea) during
War 11. This year assistant-principal of
the Bankers’ Administrative Staff College
in Victoria, he has been appointed
principal for 1958.
• •
It was no surprise to Melburnians who
meet him at gatherings to promote good
citizenship, or to his friends or his staffs,
when Charles Sylvester Booth came up
with the offer to take part in developing
a plan and fund to aid scientific education
in schools. As managing-director of
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd., he
has been impressing on fellow-industri-
alists for some years the necessity of co-
operating in a technological world with
education authorities, and backing this
collaboration with fellowships, scholar-
ships and financial aid to higher
education.
Trained as a mechanical engineer in
Britain, Booth has been an Australian
since he arrived in 1923. He is a very
popular and esteemed boss at A.P.M.,
a gifted and amiable conversationalist,
and has always insisted On the best pos-
sible public relations for the firm, giving
the lead himself. He was one of the few
industrialists who signed “The Call to


the Nation,” and he has just joined Sir
George Coles’s sponsorship of a move to
raise £lOO,OOO to put chaplains into State
schools.
“This company,” said the Prime
Minister, at the opening of the new
paper-board mill at Petrie, near Brisbane,
a week or so ago, “is serving reputably,
honorably and well the growing need of
an entire community.”
• •
Dr. Karl~ Rankl, who has been
appointed musical director of the Eliza-
bethan Trust Opera Company, will
arrive in Australia next April. Born at
Gaaden, near Vienna, in 1898, he was a
student at the famous Monastery of St.
Lazarus in Vienna, studied under Arnold
Schoenberg, and received his first operatic
appointment in 1922 as conductor of the
Vienna Volksoper. Later musical director
of Bohemia’s Reichenberg Municipal
Theatre, was at the Kroll Theatre, Berlin,
and director of the Wiesbaden State
Opera,* the Graz Opera and the German
Theatre, Prague. He went to England
in 1938, appeared as a guest-conductor
with the 8.8. C. Symphony, the London
Symphony, and the Liverpool Phil-
harmonic orchestras, and in 1946 became
the first musical director of the newly-
forrued Covent Garden Opera Company.
• •
Tom Sweeney, sketched in Brisbane
by Luke, has been Queensland secretary
of the Australian Journalists’ Association
for the past 10 years, handling this
responsible job on a part-time basis,
with journalism and also other secretarial
work as well. He went into the State
Public Service in 1914, resigning after 11
years to become secretary of the Queens-
land Irish Society, a position he held for
six years. He was fullback in the first
Australian Rugby League team to visit
New Zealand, in 1919—the team included
such notables as Frank Burge, Harold
Horder, Les Cubitt and Duncan Thomp-
son —so, what with one thing and another,
Tom Sweeney is one of Brisbane’s best-
known citizens. He’s had a fling at
business, too —he was associated with his
A.J.A. SECRETARY
late brother, Bob, for some years in the
aerated-water firm of Owen Gardner and
Sons. An injury in 1920 which necessi-
tated a blood-transfusion (the first in
Queensland) put him out of football
early, but the family tradition has been
carried on in the amateur code by his
eldest son, Tom, who was fullback for
the Wallabies in South Africa in 1953.
Tom and his sons learned their football
at St. Joseph’s Christian Brothers’
College, Gregory Terrace, of which Old
Boys’ Association Tom senior was
inaugural president.
• •
“Symonym”: It has gradually dawned
on C.5.1.R.0. scientists that there is
no change in remaining indefinitely in
the back-room. Sir lan Clunies Ross,
once the boy in the most retired room of
all, in the last few years has begun
writing authoritatively and informatively
for the press, as chairman of the organi-
sation, and getting up at worth-while
gatherings to say the scientists’ piece;
and now he is likely to bob-up at school
speech-nights to compete personally for
the young brains against the blandish-
ments of commerce and the arts.
• •
Sighted at Fremantle (W.A.)
topped by a tweed cap, George
Oakshott, 62, English, retired
postal inspector, interested in ringing
church bells. Oakshott, who served with
the British forces on Gallipoli, describes
campanology as a fascinating art; he's
rung bells, some weighing as much as
two tons, in about 300 English towns,
and says it’s not unusual to make more
than 5000 strokes in a non-stop’ peal. He
hopes to ring bells in Sydney and
Melbourne.
• •
Victorian Rhodes Scholar for 1958 is
outstanding sportsman Barry William
O’Dwyer, of Warrnambool. Aged 22,
O’Dwyer captained Xavier College at
football and rowed for Newman College
at the ’Varsity. He will do a modern-
history course at Oxford* where he hopes
to graduate M.A.
Gwynnydd Francis James, manager of
the Melbourne University Press, con-
fessed to an interest in mechanical things,
particularly railways, in at The Bulletin
office in Sydney the other day ; nothing
wrong with that, of course, but it seemed
strange in an M.A. (Birmingham), former
London University historical research
man, Fellow of St. Andrew’s College,
Sydney University (1938-39), and Mel-
bourne University lecturer in History
(1940-42). As James talked, quietly and
pleasantly, it didn’t seem strange at all ;
after all, an important part of a pub-
lisher’s job is concerned with machines.
Only a pressing engagement prevented
him going downstairs to inspect The
Bulletin machines—he could pass a very
pleasant half-hour, or hour, like that.
Another aspect of a publisher’s job, as
James sees it, is public relations: “Pub-
lishing is public relations.” Something to
PUBLISHER
think about it. In a short visit, in an un-
hurried manner, the manager of Mel-
bourne University Press gave this inter-
viewer a number of things to think about,
including the suggestion that books—
beautifully presented, hard-cover pieces
like the one he had tucked under his arm,
The Melbourne Scene, 1803-1956, by
Grant and Serle —were not really expen-
sive ; it was just that nowadays so many
other things competed for our spare
change.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Perth, at 57, George W. Simpson, one of
W.A.’s two representatives on the Australian
Wheat Board.
In Melbourne, at 61, John Douglas Anderson,
for the past 25 yeais assistant Grand Secretary
ol the United Grand Lodge of Freemasons of
Victoria.
In Sydney, former Australian Rugby League
centre-threequarter Cecil (Dick) Fifield. Tie
toured England with the 1929-30 Kangaroos.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 54, Allan L.
Matson, president of the N.Z. Trotting Associa-
tion and among the best-known stock-auctioneers
in the Dominion. Past-president of Canterbury
Owners’ and Breeders’ Association, he
introduced the national sales of trotting and
pacing yearlings. As president of the Inter-
Dominion Trotting Conference he made several
trips to Australia.
Jn Melbourne, at 66, Rupert George Heley,
chairman of the Victorian Inland Meat
Authority and member of the Australian Meat
Board.
In Melbourne, at 46, G. A. Quarry, executive-
engineer of General Motors-Holden’s. Concerned
with the planning and development of the
Holden.
At Waimate (N.Z.), at 82, Adam Cahill
(“Queensland Harry’’), Australian aboriginal
roughrider and showman, who made history in
his line.
In Melbourne, at 66, George Arthur Davies,
manager of the 1950 Australian cricket-team
in N.Z. and the 1953 team in England. A
high-scoring Melbourne pennant-cricketer in
younger days, and connected administratively
with the game for over 30 years.
In Melbourne, at 80, A. W. Cole, city
assurance-consultant for 50 years and Mayor
of Prahran for three terms.
In Rome, at 67, Beniamino Gigli, world-
famous tenor.
In London, at 66, British comedian Leslie
Henson.


ABORIGINALITIES
CjCENE: Police-court in Coen (Cape
York Peninsula), where a cattle-
killing charge was in process. Exhibit A
was being tendered for inspection—the
hide of the supposedly stolen “killer”
which had been cut into long strands and
plaited into a rope, only to be unplaited
again by the police.
Tourist lady in the gallery: “Oh, is
that how you skin a bullock up here?”
Hard-case ringer from our Peninsula:
“Yairs, lady, we peel ’em like oranges!”
Ninda.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Kerguelen Island, in the Indian
Ocean, has a population of “barkless
"It ll be all right—Til only take one for my collection."
dogs.” The animals are large and white
wdh long hair and have never been known
to bark They are believed to be descen-
danis of huskies left there by a German
Antarctic expedition 70 years ago.
* * * *
“Roger Mike”: To remove the stump t
of the old axe-handle and fit a new one
took me approximately 90 minutes.
That’s just about the time it takes one
of the satellites to orbit the earth, claimed
by some as evidence of man’s progress
during the 4000 years since he first learned
to wedge the head on an axe. It seems
to me that a more conclusive sign of
advance would be a quick-change method
for fitting a new handle to an old axehead.
The man who invented it would make a
fortune.
* * * *
“Rory”: Anyone know what the big
brown praying-mantis eats? Two weeks
ago, when the thermometer was up to
100 deg., one came inside, and is still here,
although it refuses flies, and there are no
other insects about. A while back a
small green one stayed over a month and
relished the flies I gave it.
* *; * *
“P.H.0.P.”: The preliminary survey
of a proposed Gippsland highway devia-
tion was ahead of schedule until a
stubborn cow-cocky flatly refused to allow
any surveying on his property. Legal
action was threatened, a court “paper”
subsequently produced, and work con-
tinued. Allowing the surveyors to reach
the centre of the large paddock, the
farmer gleefully turned loose his bull,
which quickly drew a bead on his quarry
and, with a couple of bellows, started to
gather speed. The surveyors did a Landy
for the fence, apparently oblivious to the
cocky’s roaring advice: “Show him y’r
bloody paper! Show him y’r bloody
paper! ”
“Narumee”: He arrived home from a
fishing-trip to Jamieson (Vic.) and was
describing, to an envious audience, the
fine Murray-cod he’d landed. His wife,
mentally calculating available refrigerator-
space for 'cubic pounds of cod, made a
move to open the boot of the car. “You
won’t find it there,” he said casually.
“It’s the close season until tomorrow, so
I had to throw it back.”
* * * *
“Mark o’ Polo”: One important
visitor to the Recherche Archipelago (B.
13/11/ ’57) is the Little Penguin. The
little blue • chaps nest there in
their thousands —or used to 20
years ago—in the caves and holes of
the weathered granite islands. It should
be a simple matter to protect them from
the tourist, as has been done here in
Victoria, on Phillip Island. Here, the
penguinery, a vast warren of burrows, is
fenced-off and is under the eye of a
ranger. One of the tourist sights of the
world occurs at dusk every day, when
an army of countless hundreds of the
grotesque little fowl come waddling up
from the sea to spend the night ashore.
* * * *
. “M ill ic e n t”: A felt-pickler (B.
23/10/’57) is a fellow who pickles pelts,
and he does this fell work in the con-
genial air and surroundings of a fell-
mongery, a place entirely devoted to the
treatment of beastless hides and skins.
After a sheepskin has been hung up for
several . days in a suitably warm and
humid atmosphere it is possible to pull
the wool off it in handfuls. This is done.
The skin is then known as a pelt, which
suffers various further processing before
it is finally pickled in a barrel with salt.
Someone has to do it, so there he is, quite
an ordinary sort of bloke after all.
* * * *
“J.T.”: In England they have an Egg
Board, too, and it insists upon stamping
every egg with the design of a lion. It is
similar to the one used by the silversmiths
in stamping their wares, which they have
been doing for hundreds of years. The
ancient guild issued a protest, concluding
with: “Of course we put the date on our
silver.”
* * * *
“Flight”: About 12 miles south of
Urandangie, 6n the Georgina River
(W.Q.), and about four miles west of the
stream, there’s a shallow claypan flat a
mile or more across, glazed and hard,
which has no connection with the river
or any other running stream. When I was
there it would be filled to its depth of
about four inches only at rare intervals,
sometimes once in a-few years ; but the
rains would scarcely have begun making
an impact on its surface before it would
be alive with frogs, the common browns
of medium size and mighty voices. It
took them only time enough to realise
where they were before they got busy:
masses of spawn floated everywhere and
were entangled in weeds. I don’t know


1 J LOV£L y To SB
*AU)NE at uastv x/


how long the life-span lasted, but when
that claypan dried the ground would be
thick with dead frogs. Some must have
survived; because all this would be
repeated in another few years’ time.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The kangaroo a
vegetarian (B. 27 /11 / ’57)? Don’t you
believe it. I used to share pretty well
everything, from soup to savories, and
including meat and eggs, with a joey
I reared in s.-w. W.A. He never picked
bones, but he’d chew a piece of steak
with evident relish and I’m pretty sure I
could have taught him to suck eggs.
There were blackboys growing near the
house-paddock, and I’ve seen him pull
grubs from dead ones and eat them in a
way that suggested an instinctive liking.
* * * *
“Retired Bagman”: Wasn’t the horse
which the first Lord Astor named in
honor of the first Lord Tweedsmuir (B.
30/10/’57) the dual Eclipse Stakes
winner Buchan? John Buchan was a
later and inferior member of the breed
who ended his undistinguished career
somewhere in Australia. Using surnames,
initials and popular names of living
people for horses was once permissible
and fashionable. Two of the greatest
horses in the Australian Stud Book,
Goldsbrough and Wallace, were named
after prominent racing and pastoral
magnates of the era, and a sporting
baronet had one very successful season
with his pair, Sweet Nell and F.J.A., the
first-named in honor of Nellie Stewart
and the second of Frances Jennie Alder.
One of my earliest winning bets was on a
filly called Wish Wynne after another
stage personality.
“0.W.W.”: A young Maori National
Service recruit was called to give evidence
against a cobber charged with dangerous
driving. When asked if he considered the
truck was being driven at excess speed,
Hori, not wishing to get his friend into
trouble, simply replied: “I kept the eyes
shut, so I couldn’t see.”
* * * *
“Sackville”: Something was amiss in
the big underground main, and the two
employees from the Water and Sewerage
Board lifted off the manhole-cover to
investigate. Instantly a wave of
obnoxious-smelling gas swept up. The
pair backed off momentarily, but
promptly returned and prepared to climb
“My wife!”
down the stirrups in the side of the man-
hole. Anxious—l once saw a chap
asphyxiated through poisonous gas—l
suggested that they take precautions
before trusting the air below. Both men
nodded solemn agreement. “You’re right,
mate,” said the older. “But this air’s all
right, or my little mates wouldn't be
there —look at ’em.” I never would have
thought cockroaches could have any use
in this world.
* * * *
“Vox Populi”: Those who wrestle with
the problems of space-travel may be able
to obtain a hint or two from the Queens-
land Main Roads Department’s mathe-
maticians. According to them the farther
away you are from a given point, the
closer you are. Along the road from
Warwick to Brisbane, through the Cun-
ningham Gap, the weary wayfarer is
boldly assured by a road-sign that Bris-
bane is only 43 miles away, but a quarter
of a mile or so further on the traveller
is staggered by another sign which as
boldly announces, “Brisbane 44m.” To
be consistent and as an assurance that
their theory is correct another sign further
on says, “Harrisville l|m.,” but after a
few hundred yards, closer to Harrisville,
another sign says, “Harrisville, 2m.”
* * * *
“J.R.D.”: Every Bulletin reader now
knows the answer to “Who Was Donald
Dinnie?” (B. 6/11/’57). To see just what
he looked like gaze on the statue of
William Wallace in Ballarat (Vic.)
Gardens if you happen along that way.
Donal’ stood for that statue.
* * * *
“B-herd”: By the time “J.J.A.” (B.
20/11/’57) has worn out a smoker or
two he'll know that you can lead bees
into a hive but you can’t make ’em build
there. Most times, persuading them to
accept new quarters is quite a business.
They’ll often swarm out of a packed hive
after a couple of -supers of foundation
have been given them to ease the housing
shortage. Unless the bees are “intro-
duced” to new room they won’t make use
of it—well, not immediately. It may take
a fortnight or more, and when they enter
they’ll begin drawing the foundation
from the bottom. The beemen get over
this quirk easily. When giving a new
box of foundation, they lift up two or
three drawn combs from the under-super,
especially brood-combs, and within an
hour the bees are all over the new super.
In “J.J.A.’s” stump-hive the bees stayed
in the space they recognised as their
habitat and laboriously built upward,
hating every minute of it. Had “J.” tied-
in two or three bits of brood-comb and
set the frame in the box he may have stood
a chance with them. But rare, no! Every
hive in the yard will build upwards if
given an empty super above the brood-
nest.
THE PATRIOT
From the stern Scot and the wild Welsh
I am sprung,
And chained fast to their proud,
melodious ways;
But the whole world is mine, and all my
days
Too short for its many songs l should
have sung.
Batter and stain the world, yet it stays
young,
And every place calls forth the poet’s
praise,
Or would if he knew his voice was there
to raise
And the lament were less ready to his
tongue.
Why then should I, this citizen of the
world
And champion of the international man,
Grow sentimental over the name Karkoo,
Or be so moved by the blue smoke
uncurled
From gum-leaves burnt beneath a
billycan
Eight miles from anywhere, down from
Lock Two ?
S.A.
R. H. MORRISON.


'THE delightful thing about humanity
is that, while half the world
trembles in fear of extinction by nuclear
warfare, the other half has time to join
societies such as that formed in England
for the “Prevention of Obscene Language
in Parrots.” Who’d be a bird in the Old
Dart? No freedom of speech!
“Anunaka.”
“Uramao”: My favorite small-town
editor (B. 30/10/’57) was Old Jim, who
combined editing the local rag with
enthusiasm for amateur theatricals. He
had organised a production and brought
it wellnigh to perfection when the lead-
ing lady collapsed. An outside pro-
fessional was secured, but at the last
moment she turned temperamental and
refused to go on. Old Jim threatened
her with all sorts of punishment, and,
threats failing, seized her by the neck with
one hand and the bustle with the other
and ran her on. Received with such a
thunder of applause, she went through
with her part admirably. Old Jim’s
critique the following day noted that
“the precipitancy with which Madame
M appeared on the stage was only
equalled by the precipitancy with which
she entered the hearts of the large
audience that accorded her the well-
merited ovation she received.”
* * * *
THE farm was light-on for meat, and
a steer from next-door well
branded, but prime—was temptingly close
to the boundary fence. Only a moment's
work to dpen the fence and push him
through, and- before you could say
“knife” the deed was done.
The hide and offal were buried deep in
the scrub, and the meat taken home to be
cut up and some of it distributed among
the more favored neighbors. But some-
one had got wind of the goings-on, and
the police were well on their way to the
scene before Old Jack found out; it was
too late to attempt to hide the meat. He’d
have to brazen it out, as being one of his
own.
All the kids were sent scattering over
the paddocks collecting bones to pile into
the fire that was hastily scraped together.
The skull that had adorned the fowihouse-
gate for years ; ribs and leg-bones from
the pigsty ; the hide that had hung on
the backyard fence for the last six
months; bits here, pieces there. Hooves?
0.K., one of the kids came pounding up
and flung them into the fire,
Everything was well burnt and reduced
to a n i ce smoulder by the time the
cops arrived. Old Jack was full of
righteous indignation at the thought that
he > he of all people, could be suspected
of such a thin S- Sure > he’d, killed a beast.
The meat was hung in the washhouse
r 'B ht now - The bones and hide? Burnt,
°f course. He was a tidy man.
old Jack took his visitors to the
smoking heap. Here was plenty of
evidence, including some bits of burnt
hide, that Jack had killed his own beast,
After a deal of poking among the ashes,
much questioning and a conciliatory cup
°f tea > the police left, satisfied,
After fortifying his palpitating self with
a hottle of home-brew, Jack wandered
back to t * ie dre ttiat ad saved him 12
months’ hard. One of the kids had just
scraped to light four objects that made
Old Jacks e Y es P°P-
Four hooves. Relatively undamaged,
clearly discernible: three bovine, one
equine!
YELLOW FIRE.
AT THE BACK O’ BOURKE
Where the mulga paddocks are wild and wide,
That’s where the pick of the stockmen ride,
At the Back o’ Bourke,
Under the dust-clouds dense and brown,
Moving southward by tank and town,
That s where the Queensland mobs come down,
Out at the Back o’ Bourke.
Over the Border to and fro,
That’s where the footsore swagmen go,
At the Back o’ Bourke;
Sick and tired of the endless strife,
Nursing the bones of a wasted life
Where all the sorrows of Earth are rife,
Out at the Back o’ Bourke.
Whether the plains are deep or dry,
That’s where the struggling teams go by
At the Back o’ Bourke,
North and southward, in twos and threes,
Bullocks and horses down to the knees,
Wagons dipped to the axle-trees,
Out at the Back o’ Bourke.
That’s the land of the lying light
And the cruel mirage dancing bright —
At the Back o’ Bourke ;
That’s where the shambling camel-train
Crosses the western ridge and plain,
Loading the Paroo clips again,
Out at the Back o’ Bourke.
That’s the land of the wildest nights,
The longest sprees and the fiercest fights,
At the Back o’ Bourke ;
That’s where the skies are brightest blue,
That’s where the heaviest work’s to do,
Thai’s where the fires of Hell burn through,
Out at the Back o’ Bourke.
That’s where the widest floods have birth
Out of the nakedest ends of Earth,
At the Back o’ Bourke,
Where poor men lend and the rich ones borrow ;
It’s the bitterest land of sweat and sorrow,
But if I were free I’d be off tomorrow
Out at the Back o’ Bourke.
WILL OGILVIE
A recent portrait of Will Ogilvie, still going strong at Kirklea,
Selkirk, Scotland, at 88. He has lately been speaking some
of his ballads on tape-recorder for the use of the blind in
Australia, and sent the photograph to H. A. Chaplin, of the
Australian Book Collectors’ Society. One of the tape-recorded
ballads, “At the Back o’ Bourke,” is reprinted on this page
from “The Bulletin” of February 15, 1896.


Business, Robbery, Etc.
THE SHAREMARKET BREAKS AGAIN
A CCUMULATING evidence
of more difficult times has
caused the sharemarket again
to halt and reassess the
economic position. Previously
a heavy break had taken place
on September 24, with notable
recovery in some stocks subse-
quently ; last week (December
12 and 13) another sharp set-
back occurred.
Both pauses in the market’s
upward trend were overdue
But it is a little difficult to
estimate how much speculative
overoptimism has had to do
with some of the unwarranted
buoyancy and how much has
been the result of institutional
buying (on the part of staff
provident-funds, life-assurance
concerns, fixed trusts and the
like) that has become almost
automatic.
Institutional investors can
afford to take a much longer
view than individual investors.
A staff provident-fund may be
well content to accept an
average yield of p.c. to 4}
p.c. for the next seven or 10
years so long as the investment
then pays-off handsomely ; but
not every investor can wait as
long as that. Nevertheless, as a
result of this institutional buy-
ing, competition for first-class
stocks has, during the past
year, been keen indeed, with a
“boom in the best,” and those
private investors wishing to
have a stake in B.H.P. or 1.C.1.
have had to pay through the
nose for the satisfaction of
doing so.
Credit “Easing”
Oddly enough, last week’s
break in the market followed
closely on the heels of a rather
vague announcement by the
central batik that credit-restric-
tion might be eased in certain
circumstances. But the credit-
easing was almost simultaneous
with the release of figures on
the 1957-58 season’s wool clip
—estimated to be down 6.5 p.c.
in volume on the 1956-57
record, and, by some authori-
ties, as likely to fetch £l2O
million less in money. (The
cheque for 1956-57 was £492
million.) An average of 65d.
a pound has been forecast for
the current clip, compared with
79.6 d. in the previous season.
Income for other primary
products will be lower also.
Because of drought the wheat-
harvest will be down heavily,
while dairy-production has
fallen at a time when export
prices are lower also. Meat is
down in price, and metals have'
fallen steeply.
Drought, on the other hand,
has made production-costs in
rural areas much higher than
last year and income more
precarious, and there is likely
“Surely there must he easier Ways of making dough!"
to be an all-round pinch that
will be felt throughout the
economy.
The Drought
Anyone who has travelled
in western N.S.W. lately and
says that there is “no drought,
only a prolonged dry spell,”
can hardly know what he is
talking about. The fact that
more provision may have been
made against drought, with the
result that stock losses have
not yet been heavy, does not
alter the situation. When sheep
that sold for £6 a head are
knocked-down at auction for
£l, someone right on the spot
seems to be aware of a startling
change in conditions over the
last 12 months.
Droughts are part and parcel
of the Australian economy, but
it would seem that the last
section of the community to
become aware of it has been
investors on the Stock
Exchanges. Nearly every other
economic indicator has been
acknowledging the position for
several months.
“Increment”
There has been a lot of
foolish talk in the market-
places recently about “market-
increment.” The proposition
has been put forward that
while an investor may not earn
even a reasonable dividend
income from a high-priced
front-rank stock he will in the
end be well rewarded by reason
of increase in the price of the
stock on the sharemarket.
This argument often ignores
the fact that market-increment
over any period of years is only
justified by dividend-increment
(or dividend potential), and
that to anticipate market-
increment without a corres-
ponding growth in the intrinsic
merit of the stock itself is to
count on a race of bigger and
better suckers coming along in
the next generation.
For this reason, as The
Bulletin has pointed out
repeatedly over the past year,
full regard should be given to
earning-power, present and
potential, in valuing a stock,
and consideration should be
given further to the aspect of
how much of that earning-
power is really provision
against “capital-erosion” result-
ing from the effects of inflation
on the cost of plant-replace-
ment. More and more in the
future profits will be ploughed-
back into the business instead
of being distributed. This
development is not peculiar to
Australia; it is a feature of
every economy where inflation
has been active and where the
creation of capital has been
retarded by a rate of consumer-
demand that has not been
matched by a sufficient increase
in the output of all classes of
goods and services.
The Yield’s the Thing
Anticipating the problems
with which the sharemarket
would eventually find itself
confronted, on the eve of the
sharemarket crash last Septem-
ber The Bulletin commented:
In the long-run an investment is
worth what it will yield, and yield is
the only thing that can be counted
on to sustain its market-price year
in and year out.
But for the present the market
fashion is to chase after “top”
stocks because they had strong rises
during the period of investment
uncertainty earlier this year. One
rise has attracted another rise, and
the rumor of the bonus-issue, some-
times as elusive as the call of the
bellbird, has become the inspira-
tion of sharemarket bidding from
a well-heeled type of speculator.
The prevailing boom in first-
class stocks, when yields, present or
prospective, appear to have become
a secondary consideration, is almost
as dangerous for the speculator as
was the recent boom in rutile-
producers. Fashions in share-
market behavior can change rapidly
and unexpectedly, and a more sober-
minded sharemarket certainly would
not find acceptable so many yields
that are nearer to 3 p.c. than to
4 p.c.
Even the B.H.P. dencuement,
where the bonus-issue of two-for-
nme has been the signal of a reduc-
tion in the div.-rate oh new issues
of B.H.P. shares, has not shaken
the market’s ' adoration of “top”
stocks. And the blow to the hopes
cf supporters of Henry Jones shares
alter the directors’ announcement
of a few weeks ago seems to have
been almost forgotten already.
After the September shake-
out which followed, there was
a creeping-back of support for
front-line stocks, and some,
such as 1.C.1., went to record
levels.
Last week’s setback in the
market was definite and over-
due. Whatever factor has been
responsible for an excess of
buoyancy in the past—the
1956-57 wool-cheque, institu-
tional buying to a fixed plan,
investors’ fears about second-
line stocks, or a bonus-issue or
takeover fever —high prices
have for some time skinned the
meat from better-class stocks
in the eyes of discerning
investors. And the delusion
that “market-increment,” in
the end, will be the answer to
all the investment’s other
deficiencies is, on actuarial


J= ==s
injir
~^j«*
Will
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you have
built throughout a lifetime will continue to function
without dislocation and to the advantage of your
beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs—impartially and per-
manently— at moderate cost—and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Established 1884
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman); Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Norman J. Carson,
C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton. General Manager:
John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams. Resident Officer
for Northern Victoria and Riverina: S. L. G. MacDonald,
Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.R.E. ( Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.E., Q.C., M.L.C.;
Bertram J. F. Wright, M.8.E.; R. A. Irish; Duncan N.
Mathieson. Manager: A. B. Tilemann. Assistant Manager:
A. G. W. Dent. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird.
District Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And at Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charleville.
UT27
analysis, a fallacy of a most
fundamental kind.
Bearing Service Holdings
/'YNE of the several post-war
“conversions” that have
done excellently for their public
shareholders, Bearing Service
Holdings, Ltd., has left all
doubts behind as to the justi-
fication for the valuation put
on the shares of the original
proprietary cos. in 1950. Then
the valuation for conversion
purposes was six times the paid-
up value of the old shares, and
net tangibles on consolidation
were equal to ss. Id. per 10s.
share of the new float.
Right from the beginning
earning-power showed up well
in relation to the new capitali-
sation, and over the past seven
years the div. has climbed from
9 p.c. to 15 p.c., with a one-
for-four bonus-issue in the
1956 term. And now net
tangibles, on book-values which
appear to be conservative,
amount to 17s. sd. per 10s.
share.
Ball-bearings and roller-
bearings are obviously big
business in an economy that
is becoming increasingly
engaged in the manufacture of
its own motor-cars, its own
small industrial engines, and
its own powered lawnmowers
and the like. And there are
many other engineering
activities away from the auto-
motive.
Almost all the supplies which
the co.’s group of subsidiaries
deal in are imported, the prin-
cipal sources being Hoffman
Mfg. Co., Ltd., British Timken,
JLtd., and Fischer Bearing Co.,
Ltd., all of England. Addi-
tional supplies come from other
manufacturers in England,
U.S.A. and Switzerland.
Bearing Service (Holdings),
Ltd., controls Bearing Service
Co. of Aust. in Melbourne,
Bearing Service Co., Ball
Bearings Pty. and William
Easy Pty. (all of Sydney), as
well as Bearing Service Co.
(Brisbane), Bearing Service Co.
(Adelaide) and Bearing Service
Co. and Ball Bearings Pty.
(Perth). The co. also has a
large interest (393,428 ss.
shares in 1956) in Duncan
Industries, Ltd., listed on
Adelaide ’Change. They are
taken into the accounts at their
market-value on June 30 last
(£176,961).
The parent also has a 50 p.c.
interest (£45,000) in Charles
Weston of Australia, Ltd.,
which makes oil-seals.
Last term expansion in profit
continued:
Consolidated Figures,
_ _ Re-
Jne., Profit. , —Dividends— N serves.*
£ £ £
’51..209,945 9 p.e. = 80,249 '129,925
Tax overprovided, £14,000. . 142,925
’52..229,881 9 p.c. s 80,249 292,557
’53..199,215 9 „ „ 82,769 409,003
Tax overprovided, £l6O .. 409,163
’54..245,425 11 p.c. = 101,162 553,426
Unexpl’d additions, £1969 555,395
’55..381,162 15 p.c. = 137,948 798,609
Goodwill w/off, £5215 .. 793,394
Assets revalued, £130,211.. 923,605
Shares revalued, £229,914 }
Res. capitalised, £229,914 5
Unexp’d additions, £498 . 924,103
’56-414,027 15 p.c. = 172,436 1,165,694
Tax adjustment, £3091 . . 1,102,603
Assets revalued, £20,529. . 1,183,132
’57..456,429 15 p.c. = 172,436 1,467,125
* Subject to goodwill on consolidation
( £613,359 at 30/6/’57.).
After setting aside £272,300
(almost unchanged) for taxa-
tion at the new rates, and
£19,054 (against £14,988) for
depreciation, net profit was
£42,402 higher at £456,429, and
equal to 39.7 p.c. on capital,
compared with 36 p.c. in the
preceding year. (Earning-rate
on total shareholders’ funds as
at end of year was 16 p.c.,
against 17.9 p.c.)
After meeting the 15 p.c.
div. (unchanged now for three
years), £283,993 was carried to
reserves, making the total
retained profit during the past
seven years £1,308,835, which
is in excess of present paid
capital (£1,149,571).
The high rate of profit-
earning, combined with a
prudent div.-policy, has made
it possible to expand the
business without calling on
shareholders for more capital.
A new head-office building in
the course of erection in Mel-
bourne is expected to cost
£200,000, but “at this stage
there is no indication that
further capital will be
required”:
Consolidated Figures.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,149,571 £1,149,571
Reserves .. 1,162,602 1,467,124
Overdraft .. 113,601 86,902
Creditors .. 147,400 ' 229,586
Tax provision .. 273,427 271,682
Final div. .. 172,436 172,436
£3,019,037 £3,377,301
Freeholds .. 189,722 216,853
Leaseholds .. 3,803 10,108
Furniture, plant 107,602 126,943
Shares other cos. 187,299 221,961
Consols, etc. .. 22,794 23,661
Stock .. .. 1,370,794' 1,501,916
Debtors .. 475,058 572,870
Cash . . .. 48,606 89,630
Intangibles .. 613,359 613,359
£3,019,037 £3,377,301
The build-up in stocks goes on,
the addition last term being
£131,122, carrying the figure
up to £1,501,916. The board’s
comment is that “by far the
major portion of the increased
reserves has been invested in
additional stocks, in furtherance
of Jhe co.’s endeavor to give
a complete service in all types
of ball- and roller-bearings
throughout Australia.”
Certainly the co. has in no
way strained finances in estab-
fishing these stocks. The out-
side debt is comparatively
SI1 T£ ‘ ,
If growth of the business goes
on at its present pace, with
profits on the existing scale, the
time is likely to come when
portion of the ploughed-back
funds will be converted into
capital. Future expansion will
depend in some degree on the
demands made on the ball-
bearing industry by the B.M.C.
when it gets into full swing in
car-manufacture. All in all,
prospects look promising.
v Manufacture of Villiers and
similar engines in Australia
should help.
At 275. 3d. the 10s. shares


AJP.A.
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL ASSURANCE
ASSOCIATION LIMITED
Incorporated in New South Wales in 1912.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO SHAREHOLDERS
Mr. Leslie J. Thompson, in his address to Shareholders at the Annual Meeting,
reviewed the operations of A.P.A. Holdings Limited and its two subsidiaries, The
Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited and the A.P.A. Fire and General
Insurance Company Limited. The following highlights are taken from his address:
THE AUSTRALIAN PROVINCIAL
ASSURANCE ASSOCIATION
LIMITED
New Business.
The gross new business of £2,878,487
compared with 2,323,753
for the previous year represents an
increase of 23.8%
The average amount of sum assured
per Policy was 1,315
compared with 1,181
Interest Yield.
The net effective rate of Interest, after
deducting Income Tax, increased
to .. .. £4.17.3%
from 4.10.11%
an increase of 6/4%.
Increased Surplus and Bonus.
The surplus earned by the Life
Department . (including £22090
brought forward and non-recurring
Income of £8941) was 189,764
compared with 152,617
and has been appropriated as follows:
Allotment of bonus to the Policy-
holders, at increased rates 138,516
compared with .. .. .. .. .. 122,027
Balance carried forward 51,248
compared with 22,090
Increased Accident Income.
The premium income in the Accident
Department, a record figure of .. 176,262
compares with 165,696
in the previous year.
Profit and Loss Account.
The General Fund profits for the
year consist of:
Net interest, dividends and rents ... £61,995
Profit transferred from Accident
account 15,914
Other Income (net) including excess
Tax provision released .. .. 1,896
The amount brought forward in the
previous year was 83,009
giving a grand total of .. .. .. £162,814
Dividend is raised to requiring £Bl,OOO
and leaving .. 81,814
equal to 22.72% on Capital.
Assets.
Assets now total .. £7,818,140
compared with .. .. 7,046,881
Of this amount Government and
semi-Governmental securities account
for 60.3%.
A.P.A. FIRE AND GENERAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Income for the first full trading year
totals £6,212
which, after making full provision
for reserve for unexpired risks, showed
a profit of .. .. 1,314
which is carried forward.
DECADE OF PROGRESS
yield 5.4 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis.
Oil Search and E. F. Griffin
[From L. Owen]
A S in former summaries, the
report issued by Oil Search,
Ltd., for the year ended
30/6/1957, is factual and
modest; it is noticeably free
from any of that super-
optimism with which many
Australian companies engaged
in the hunt for petroleum are
wont to feed to their share-
holders both existing and
prospective.
The disappointment felt
owing to the failure of the
year’s operations to produce
conclusive results is soberly
expressed, but it is hoped that
the natural impatience caused
by this failure should not be
allowed “to do more than
emphasise the difficulties that
can be experienced in the
search for oil.”
Most of the drilling dealt
with in the report has been
commented on in the Bulletin
and need not be reviewed, but
the reference to the Sireru well
is worth mention as it explains
what was, at the time, a rather
puzzling abandonment:
The Sireru test-site, located eight
miles north of the Kuru structure,
was drilled specifically to test for
gas or oil-accumulation in the
geological formation equivalent to
that in which the Kuru wells
encountered gas. The hole was
spudded-in in late June and was com-
pleted in August at 1510 ft. when this
formation was found to contain
water. No useful purpose would
have been served by further deepen-
ing, since Kuru 3 will be exploring
the same deeper geological forma-
tions in a more favorable area.
The programme for com-
pletion by the end of this
current financial year is
interesting, as all the drilling
and located bore-sites are on a
line running east-west through
Kuru, and presumably on folds
in echelon with that structure.
Barikewa well —which was at
8025 ft. on November 21, with
Tin. casing set at 8008 ft. —is to
be deepened until worth-while
results are obtained or until
operations there are not con-
sidered warranted.
The Puri well is also to be
taken to depth. It was at 738 ft.
on November 21.
New wells are Komewu No.
2, located two miles from No. 1
—which went to 6393 ft. with-
out striking oil or gas—and
Kuru No. 3, sited slightly more
than half-a-mile from Nos. 1
and 2 bores. Drilling on Kuru
2 was stopped by continuous
cavings at 7305 ft., but the
prospects of striking oil and/or
gas within the Kuru structure,
in formations below that depth,
are “considered sufficiently
worth while to warrant a third
hole” . . .
On the agenda for the meet-
ing to be held in Sydney on
December 17 is an item “to
approve a recommendation by
the board... .that payment of
£lO,OOO to Mr. E. F. Griffin as
a retiring allowance” ... be
made. While such a step is not
usual for an oil company which
has not reached the producing
stage, Mr. Griffin’s services
have been so outstanding and
selfless throughout his 20 years
with the company that there is
no doubt that the payment
should be authorised by the
meeting.
Metal Shares
“lows” were recorded
among base-metal stocks
last week. North Broken Hill
touched 965. in Melbourne,
against the year’s highest price
of £8 Is. New Broken Hill at
41s. compared with the 1957
“high” of 745. 6d. Consoli-
dated Zinc at 625. 6d. compared
with £6 6s.
Mt» Isa at 265. 9d. was down
12s. on the year’s peak.
As long-term propositions
these first-class base-metal
mines at present levels start to
look interesting again, though
the market may not even yet
have fully estimated the effect
on profits of the fall in metal
prices overseas.


“I must say my husband has always been a good provider."


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Artbursts
Archibald and Wynne
A few years ago Ivor Hele
entered a self-portrait for the
Archibald which The Bulletin
said at the time should have
won and which lingers in the
mind as one of the most
vigorous portraits shown in the
competition in recent times.
The self-portrait with which
he has taken the prize this year
is equally vigorous and, as
a whole, much better painted.
Striking in pose, full of
character, firm without being
overfinished in texture, vital in
its flesh-tones, it dominates the
exhibition and has the effect of
reducing Dobell’s Mary Gil-
more portrait from the com-
manding effect it had in isola-
tion to what is more likely its
proper stature: a queer thing,
an oddity.
But Hele’s other entry, the
portrait of A. R. Downer, has
the opposite effect.
Here you have the compe-
tent commissioned job ; marred
by the characteristic impression
which so many of Hele’s por-
traits „give of being slightly over
life-size, completely conven-
tional in pose, uninteresting in
its stereotyped background of
studio-drapes. And here Dobell
comes forward again ; for his
quaint, alert little impression
of Cami Gheysens is very much
more alive, and very much more
a work of art.
The conclusion would seem
to be that the straightforward
realistic portrait can still out-
weigh the oddity—even so
talented an oddity as Dobell’s
—but it needs to be of the
highest quality to do it.
There are no qther portraits
of comparable interest except,
for its promise, a self-portrait
by a very young painter, Bruce
Fletcher, who looks as if he
may do well if he can escape
from the shadow of Meldrum ;
but there is a fair list of credit-
able entries by Dora Toovey,
Arnold Shore, Mary McLeish,
Douglas Watson, William
J. Carington Smith,
Graeme Inson and, warily,
Clifton Pugh.
Scott Pendlebury’s Wynne
Prize "winner, a landscape of
Constitution Dock, Hobart, is
a most curiously old-fashioned
work to have taken the prize
at this date ; solid and dark like
a Sickert and looking all the
older for the ragged old frame.
If it were not too unassuming
this commentator would have
preferred Lance Solomon’s
“October Morning” ; or, if it
were not too shallow, Frederic
Bates’s “Night Color, Red-
fern.”
The Sulman went to Michael
Kmit’s “The Voice of Silence,”
a pair of the familiar “Byzan-
tine” heads which serve this
painter equally well for por-
traits, landscapes or murals,
with some pleasant island color
in black and green. Harold
Greenhill’s “The City Street”
is a crisper and more energetic
piece of work.
❖. ❖ *
Alfred Gant’s oils at the
S.A. Socjety of Arts show a
pleasant regard for ketches in
the Port River, the texture of
stones in a crushing-plant and
the summery space between a
fence-post, a farm-house and
a red hill. Yet Mr, Gant lacks
the artistic personality to give
us a fresh' view of these scenes.
His smooth, flowing paint lets
in no rich Australian light,
only a thin, dry haze. The
only hint of genuine fertility
of invention comes in the
Stanley Spencerish studies of
tangled flowers and foliage in
a garden, lit up by a red
geranium. A minor show, and
one that does not pretend to
be anything else.
GEOFFREY DUTTON.
Volodymyr Sawchak, a New
Australian, has been casting
an eye over Namatjira’s
country, and the results are
hanging at the Athenaeum
Gallery, Melbourne. They
differ from Namatjira’s version
in providing some evidence of
human population among the
red rocks, red sand and ghost-
gums.- As far as the present
writer knows, Namatjira hasn’t
concerned himself with his
own people as a painter, but
Sawchak depicts Arunta com-
mittees squatting under trees
outside their villages, and
Arunta girls, who, however,
are not so well seen as hiaj
landscapes. In his “River
Gums in Dust Haze,” “Morn-
ing Light” and “Mulga Shade”
he sees a trifle further beyond
the surface than his native
confrere and his colors sing
more.
❖ ❖ *>
, Officially opened by the
Right Hon. Harold E. Holt,
M.H.R., Dick Ovenden’s annual
show is at the Athenaeum,
Melbourne. Ovenden has done
an enormous amount of paint-
ing. His catalogue reads like
the index to a topographical
survey of Victoria, with par-
ticular attention to its majestic
coastline. The only exception
is a portrait of the late Sir
Norman Myer. This was
necessarily painted from a
photograph and, unlike John
Longstaff’s portrait of Alfred
Felton in the National Gallery,
is no improvement on the
original. Ovenden’s landscapes,
however, do show some
improvement, especially in sub-
jects in which Nature has lent
a helping ha\d by obliterating
detail with a convenient mist
or fog or rainstorm. Detail is
Mr. Ovenden’s bugbear.
Stage and Music
“The Chalk Garden”
Already noted and highly
commended by The Bulletin’s
Melbourne commentator, Enid
Bagnold’s witty and compas-
sionate comedy-drama opened"
at Sydney Royal the other
night and sent the audience
home more thoroughly enter-
tained than it has been for
many a season.
Several things contributed to
this, but nothing more so than
Lionel Harris’s production. In
fact, from this aspect, it might
be fairly said that there has
been no comparable production
since Mr. Harris was last in
Sydney a year or two back to
produce the Richardson season
at the Elizabethan and that
exquisite miniature, “The
Duenna,” at the Phillip-street
theatre. Mr, Harris’s strength,
of course, is that his most
excellent judgments are so
lightly and unobtrusively
applied that producers don’t
even seem to exist, and that
everything appears to begin and
end with the rise and fall of the
curtain. That, of course, may
be an obvious, essential virtue,
but one rarely encounters it,,
and the exhilarating spon-
taneity it creates, in such
perfection.
Tidiness rather than lack of
maimers makes one mention
i Mr. Harris before Dame Sybil
Thorndike. It is an experience
St any time to watch this
magnificent old actress, so rich
and sure in her talents, skating
up to the edge of ham—flirting
with it in fact—then veering
away in the nick of time so that
she seems to say, almost mis-
chievously, “Scared you, didn’t
I?” She is, of course, not an
actress to be criticised ; it is far
more profitable to learn from
her, to see just how far you can
go with a full, rich style. Here,
as Mrs. St. Maugham, guard-
ing and crippling her grand-
daughter’s mind with the best
of selfish intentions, she goes
the limit, switching from
comedy to tragedy without
falter and tossing off the
sparkling lines as casually and
gracefully as any woman ever
dropped a handkerchief with
intent.
Patricia Kennedy, as the com-
panion with the mysterious
background, who untangles the
problems of the granddaughter
—and of the grandmother ; Sir
Lewis Casson, as the judge who
can’t face reality outside the
court; Gordon Chater, with
a notable character-creation as
the butler; Jessica Noad, charm-
ing and natural as the mother
of the problem child; Laura
Jane Casson, as the child her-
self ; and Tom Lingwood, who
designed the very attractive set
—all these, as The Bulletin’s
Melbourne showman has
written, rise admirably to what
is quite a conspicuous theatrical
occasion.
♦j* **♦
The weekend saw two other
changes in Sydney, both due
for further notice: Dr. Raoul
Cardamatis’s strikingly indi-
vidualistic production of
Anouilh’s ‘‘The Lark,” at the
Independent, North Sydney;
and some new features
on the programme which
supports Shirley Bassey at
Sydney Tiv.—which is not to
suggest for a moment that any-
one as electrifying as Miss
Bassey needs any support.
*t* *** ♦♦♦
Roses All the Way
[l'rom London]
The Old Vic is doing the
whole of “King Henry VI” on
two separate nights. Douglas
Seale’s blood-and-guts pro-
duction compresses the first two
parts into one performance,
omitting most of Part I, includ-
ing Joan of Arc and Talbot. It
is very fast-moving, very highly
charged and, above all, very
effective in dramatic interest —


mm
ifiS:
:>s
Off
o'Vfi
s ‘r^i
~2Ssg&
it'--;
ifiyLiAtll IS UftlSllftE*
if Jh? Old Blend
[Tilliijiimiiii WKisk-y
y <Kt «/
ftLIAR
McifUi
Original Recipf
»M«
1742
AH
W
MI fEtUi
i&isttSS
wK-v . c UfPKI
< sgsa--»stw *"i !»*>
R 35
WHITE HORSE
of course!
No other drink satisfies more
than a fine Scotch . . . and in
White Horse, Scotch
Whisky reaches pure
perfection.
® pageant of turbulent conflict
between the Roses, from the
opening scene (the obsequies of
Henry V) to the final speech,
borrowed from the beginning of
Richard 111, in which the latter
is wintering his discontent aside
while the court is acclaiming
Edward IV and his victories.
There were other ravages
besides high tempers, ill-will,
treachery, violence, sudden
deaths and heads on pikes. ’Flu
occasioned two separate
Henrys and two separate War-
wicks. Understudy John Rye’s
Henry VI, word- and character-
perfect, made a greater impact
than Paul Daneman’s, for his
faltering and terrified inepti-
tude occasioned a truer balance.
Daneman played the role as a
classic tragedian, poetically
superb but too serene and con-
sonant for the harsh back-
ground.
This company is in high
fettle, with many crisp perfor-
mances and splendid “doubles.”
Barbara Jefford’s Queen Mar-
garet is splenetic, brawling and
quick-to-action. David Dodi-
mead is. from the first grimace,
a cunning, evil Cardinal Beau-
fort. And Derek Godfrey is
latent greatness in the simplicity
of his poise and effect: a
memorable Suffolk and a malig-
nant Crookback, although ‘this
essay at conventional villainy
was not completely self-con-
vinced, prpvoking titters in the
wrong places.
Nothing daunts these players
in their histrionic flights. They
really let themselves go, making
light of exacting technical
demands. Daneman’s death-
call, for instance, is as sensa-
tional as it is fraught with
physical hazard. Those who
believe that these plays were
intended to be acted on the
stage and not brought out some
three centuries later as cultural
torment for schoolchildren
should make the most of the
current fashion. At least, all
concerned, active and passive,
thoroughly enjoy themselves.
++* *x* ❖
Two “Messiahs”
The St. George Choral
Society with the Royal Phil-
harmonic Choir and Orchestra,
conducted by Gerald Williams,
presented at the Town Hall the
first of Sydney’s annual spate
of “Messiahs.” > St. George
wrestled mightily with Handel’s
dragon, but because of the
general lack of integration
between orchestra and choir it
was an uphill battle. First-
violins were ragged and the
’cellos lagged persistently, in
spite of Mr. Williams’s metro-
nomic beat.
What on earth caused the
choral rat-race in the chorus-
section' of “Oh Thou that
Tellest”? Why was the
Pastoral Symphony—all misty
hills' and shepherds’ piping—
given Mozart’s orchestral treat-
ment? A couple of soft flute-
stops on the organ would have
rendered it twice as effectively.
Why did Mr. Williams, at the
beginning of the “Hallelujah”
Chorus, turn and imperiously
summon the audience to rise?
Surely George IPs precedent is
sufficient. Why was the chorus
“All we like Sheep” taken at
such a sizzling pace? And in
the bass air “Why do the
nations so furiously rage
together?” why did the
orchestra so furiously rage
together?
The choir was noisily
efficient in the big choruses,
but in the more meditative
ones, like “Behold the Lamb,”
the edges were sandpaper-
smooth. Soprano Nita
Maughan aired a voice as rich
as whipped cream, an operatic
approach to oratorio with too
much plum-in-the-mouth. Joan
Gray contraltoed reasonably
well, tenor Archie Hamilton
sang “Comfort Ye” comfort-
ingly, but lost a lot of his
clarity and ease later on, and
Russell Cooper beheld dark-
ness covering the earth with a
resonant if over-vibratory bass.
The star performer, though,
was the grand organ. Its brief
appearances, at the hands and
feet of Paul Edgar, added much
where much more was needed.
Later, Sir Bernard Heinze
with the Sydney Symphony


fey Appointment
\4o H. M. King
IX
By Appointment
to the lata.
King George VI
By Appointment
to H. M. Kinfl
Gustav VI Adolf
By Appointment
to H. M. th«
Queen of th»
Netherlands
m CHERRY §1
SSliLLlCMiai 'tiK'iiiil
Cherry
Heering
£inc« 1118 Denmark's
liqueur delight
for your after
dinner enjoyment
OMf*
quM-
<
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—SWIFT & MOORE PTY. LTD.
i/p
m
ft w
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE
CO. LTD.
Branches throughout the
Commonwealth with repre-
sentatives and agents in
country centres.
Transacting
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
GENERAL INSURANCE
Hunter and
O'Connell Sts., H. V. La wry,
Sydney. Manager.
orchestra and Hurlstone Choral
Society turned the tables with
a shining “Messiah.” The
choir, roughly the same size as
St. George’s, gave a most
mobile and contrasted reading.
What with, soprano Marjorie
Conley watching shepherds
abiding in the field, contralto
Florence Taylor telling good
tidings to Zion, tenor Ronald
Dowd exalting the valleys and
Robert Payne’s baritone plung-
ing through “For He is like a
refiner’s fire,” it was a pretty
good evening, made even more
so by Sir Bernard’s use of the
or iginal edition of the score (no
woodwinds in the Pastoral
Symphony) and some neat
organ-playing by Maynard
Wilkinson.
A.W.
“A View from the Bridge”
It’s the fashion of the
moment for American play-
wrights like Arthur Miller and
Tennessee Williams to attack
the wonky values of society,
usually of the lower classes,
but it’s anybody’s guess
whether their efforts will lead
to a more enlightened set of
values or become mere relics
in the history of literature,
dug up once in a while by some
industrious professor.
Anyhow, Melbourne Union
Theatre Repertory Co. have
thrown on to their boards
Miller’s latest effort for a
three-weeks’ season, and pro-
ducer Wal Cherry has moulded
a distinguished cast into a
finely integrated whole in a
pathetically real story about a
wharfie, Eddie, and his obses-
sion for his young niece
Catherine.
While Catherine was a child
Eddie felt secure in their
relationship and never stopped
to consider the real nature of
their union. Then a carefree
Italian migrant, Rodolpho, and
his elder brother, Marco, land
on Eddie’s doorstep, are
invited to board with the
family and the fat is in the
fire. Once a bundle of childish
innocence, Catherine, to the
horror of her uncle, becomes
infatuated with Rodolpho, who
has pure blond hair and no
sense.
Eddie becomes insanely
jealous, and gives every reason
except the right one for his
jealous feelings. Therein lies
Eddie’s tragedy—he will not
acknowledge his feelings for
his niece ; yet, asks Miller at
the end of the play, is it such
a tragedy that a man could
love with such uncompromis-
ing passion—like Othello?
Eddie becomes both parent and
lover and cannot adjust him-
self to this new set-up when
Catherine’s love switches to the
young Italian.
Eddie knows that the Italians
are illegal immigrants, and
uses this fact to get rid of his
rival. The Italians are arrested,
but before their case comes, up
Marco gets out on bail and
kills Eddie. Mr. Alfieri, a
lawyer who has been commen-
tator throughout the play—a
device much used by Miller—
sums-up the tragic situation
with Miller’s comment on life:
To live successfully in this
world we must do so by half-
measures, and as this alleged
rule doesn’t coincide with
Eddie’s feelings he must die.
Patricia Conolly (Catherine)
improves with every perform-
ance at the Union. She is
sensitive and has the ability
to sustain a dramatic moment.
Her acting is on the lines of
Zoe Caldwell, who, in this
play, gave a mature, well-
judged performance as the
sober, controlled aunt. Tony
Brown, as Marco, was excel-
lent, as was Frank Gatliff as
his brother. Wyn Roberts did
well in a role which was the
weakest in the play—it was
difficult for the present writer
to disentangle himself from
the emotions of the play to
listen to the comments of a
worldly-wise lawyer who did
not live, anyway.
Lighting and sets imagina-
tive, and the guitar music in
the background just right.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Anne of the Thousand
Days”
Involved in this play by
Maxwell Anderson (put on by
the National Theatre of Mel-
bourne) are the loves and lives
of two of Henry VIII’s brides.
One, Anne Boleyn, is on the
way out and the other, Jane
Seymour, is on the way in.
Catherine of Aragon, the first
of Henry’s spouses, is on the
shelf, completely forgotten by
both the other two.
Anne of Cleves is somewhere
in the offing waiting to take the
place in Henry’s affection which
Jane now occupies and later to
join Catherine of Aragon on the
shelf, while behind her is
Catherine Howard waiting to
step into her shoes and later to
join Anne Boleyn on the
scaffold.
Behind them all is Catherine
Parr eager to step into the place
in the warm heart of Henry
which the rest of the half-dozen
have vacated. She is destined
to be the most fortunate of the
sextet inasmuch as Henry died
before his feelings towards her
had time to change.
None of the six wives of
Henry the Horrible (as James
Edmond dubbed him) applied
to themselves the famous
couplet: “As you are now so
once was she: As she is now
so you may be.” They went
blithely into marriage with him
deeming that their love would
last for ever, much like any
average suburban wife and
husband. In the case of Henry,
however, there was a funda-
mental difference. When one
of his loves became an obstacle
between him and another, and
his feelings changed towards
her, he could justify her
removal on religious grounds
or the interests of the nation,
and divorce her or chop her
head off with a perfectly good
conscience and with the full
approval of his admiring
subjects.
Mr. Anderson doesn’t stress
this point, His Henry and Anne
are mainly sentimental pro-
jections of the American wife
and husband, and his play only
comes to life in places. He
does, however, succeed in mak-
ing Henry a relatively human
figure when he stands by
Anne’s. bedside bitterly dis-
appointed because she has
given birth to a girl instead of
a boy. He couldn’t have
been expected to know that the
child was destined to be Queen
Elizabeth I.
Malcolm Phillips, a
reasonably good job of Henry;
Joan MacDonald a fierce Anne.
The rest, mediocre.


Xhe Ulan on the Land
needs the assurance of an Executor and Trustee who will conserve
his Estate for those whom, under his Will, he desires to benefit
*
u
i*
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY has for over sixty-five
years successfully managed'country estates. The Company’s
extensive organisation and wide experience ensures that the
interests of its clients will receive every safeguard and attention,
Ensure for your
Estate the benefit of
v this experience and
obtain for your
beneficiaries the pro*
tection of capital
and assets exceeding
* 1,000,000 .
Writ* for a ft** *xplan«tfory booklet.
• CARD OF DIRECTORS*
G. B. Kater {Chairman).
Dr. G. M. Barron, 0.8. E.
{Vi ce-Chairman).
J. R. Faviell. F. B. Fleming. C. H. Locke.
Lieut.-General Sir John Northcoit,
K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., C.B.
Manager : F. R. Garland.
Assistant Manager: M. A. Foulcher.
Secretary : P. H. Andrews.
Permanent Trustee
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
18-29 O’Connell St., Sydney
Associate Company!
Permanent Trustee Co. (Canberra) ltd.
'■ PT.n«'Rl5
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Bank of Adelaide
TRAILING a release from the special
accounts with the central bank, the
extent to which trading-banks as a whole
will follow the official advice to expand
advances will, it seems, be determined
largely by the degree to which they are
prepared to let liquidity ratios slip.
While there is room for an overall
increase in advances, some banks are in
a much better position than others to
take advantage of the situation.
Well-placed to follow the central
bank’s advice, the 92-year-old Bank of
Adelaide completed the year to September
30 last with 9s. 2d. in liquids for every
£ of liabilities to the public. Another
4s. 6d. was locked-up in the special
account.
Calls to special account over the term
amounted to £3,100,000, absorbing all
but £226,489 of the £3,326,489 added to
deposits, and with advances down by
£2,198,102, the ratio of advances to
deposits dropped from 49.9 p.c. to 39.7
p.c. Most of the funds not soaked-up
by the special account went into liquids
(up £2,073,559):
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,750,000 £1,750,000 £1,750,000
Reserves .. 1,827,350 1,867,245 1,904,943
Deposits, etc... 35,308,447 34,479,941 37,806,430
Notes . . 6,489 6,489 6,489
Due other Kanks 842,504 1,064,357 928,015
Final div. . . 87,500 87,500 87,500
£39,822,290 £39,255,532 £42,483,377
Liquid assets.. 14,187,678 15,262,698 17,336,257
Special account 5,668,000 5,368,000 8,468,000
Advances .. 18,716,995 17,212,537 15,014,435
Premises .. 845,421 939,394 1,161,967
Other assets- .. 404,196 472,903 502,718
£39,822,290 £39,255,532 £42,483,377
The purchase of a property in Collins
Street, Melbourne, accounted for the
bulk of the £222,574 added to the well
written-down book-value of premises.
Included with “other assets” is a 40 p.c.
holding in Finance Corporation of
Australia, Ltd., which has sent out 10
p.c. divs. in each of the last two terms.
The Bank of Adelaide transacts the
greater part of its business in South Aus-
tralia, but among its more than 160
branches and agencies are branches in all
mainland capital-cities and London.
Unchanged for almost 30 years, paid
capital (all in ords.) was raised to
£1,750,000 in 1954 when 500,000 £1 ords.
were offered to shareholders (two-for-
five) at 275. 6d. In the same year the
current 10 p.c. div.-rate was reintroduced
after a lapse of 15 years, the average
rate over the past decade equalling
8.8 p.c.
Written after providing an undisclosed
amount for taxation and “making trans-
fers to reserves and provision for bad
and doubtful debts, fluctuations in the
value of investment securities and other
contingencies,” last term’s net profit was
£2197 smaller at £212,698:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £)
From inner reserves, £250,000 .. 1,310,042
1948 . 89,127 7 p.c. = 87,500 1,627 1,312,209
1949 ... 101,075 8 „ ~100,000 1,675 1,313,944
1950.. 104,678 8 „ ~100,000 4.678 1,318,622
1951 .. 108,008 8 „ ~100,000 8,008 1,326,630
1952 .. 110,344 8 „ ~100,000 10,344 1,336,974
1953.. 124,974 9 „ ~112,500 12,474 1,349,447
Written off premises, etc., £30,000 .. 1,319,447
Share premiums, £187,500 .. .. 1,506,947
1954.. 163,859 10 p.c. =137,500 26,359 1,533,308
From contingency reserve, £250,000 1,783,306
1955.. 219,044 10 p.c. =175,000 44,044 1,827.350
1956.. 214,895 10 „ ~175,000 39,895 1,867,245
1957 .. 212,698 10 „ ~175,000 37,698 1,904,943
A modest 5.8 p.c. on total shareholders’
funds, the earnings represented 12.1 p.c.
on share capital as against 12.2, 12.5,
11.9 and 10 p.c. back to 1953.
According to the board, its policy
“has been directed to ensure that the
additional requirements of customers
arising from the adverse seasonal condi-
tions now prevailing will be readily
available.” By stretching advances in the
current term, the bank could also halt
the slight drift in profits evident over the
last two years.
Supported by solid reserves (net
tangible cover, 41s. 9d.) the f.-p. £1 ords.
at 38s. 6d. would return £5 3s. lid. from
a continued 10 p.c. distribution.
A.P.A. Holdings, Ltd.
A LIKELY newcomer to Stock
*** Exchange lists within the next few
months, A.P.A. Holdings, Ltd., has as
its principal asset practically all the issued
capital in Australian Provincial Assurance
Association, Ltd.
The holding co., registered last May,
offered shareholders in the A.P.A. asso-
ciation two f.-p. £1 shares in A.P.A.
Holdings and £3 in non-interest-bearing
redeemable loan stock for each (unlisted)
f.-p. £1 share held in the assurance co.
No revaluation of assets is contemplated,
but the consideration offered for the
£360,000 capital was based on the share-
holders’ reserves at September 30, 1956
(£394,127), and a “fairly estimated”
£1,408,236 surplus of market-value over
book-value of freeholds and sharehold-
ings at the same date.
On completion of the transaction
A.P.A. Holdings will have a paid capital
of £720,000.
A repayment of Is. 6d. was made on
each £3 of loan stock last September with
a further payment of 3s. proposed early
next year. Redemption of the loan stock
is to be completed no later than 1977,
when any amount still outstanding will
be converted into f.-p. shares.
Predominantly a life-office, the A.P.A.
Association got under way in Sydney 45
years ago and now writes life and accident
contracts throughout Australia and New
Zealand. Control of a small subsidiary,
A.P.A. Fire and General Insurance Co.,
Ltd., was passed to the new holding co.
last term.
In common with most life-offices the
operating co. has made considerable
progress over the past decade, and last
term (to September 30) put a gross
£2,878,487 (up £554,734) of new business
on the books, the net sum assured under
life polices rising from £19.3 million to
£21.2 million. (No industrial life-policies
are issued.)
In the life department, net premiums
(up £77,353 at £741,078) and rents, in-
terest, dividends, etc. (up £35,741 at


£294,062), combined to top the £l-million
mark for the first time, bringing in a
total of £1,035,140 (up £113,094). Death
claims represented 67 p.c. of the amount
expected under the mortality tables
adopted in the preceding term (against
78 p.c. in 1956), and with maturity
claims, surrenders, etc., amounted to
£252,145, commissions and management
expenses (25.8 p.c. of premium income
compared with 26.3 p.c. in the previous
term) and sundry expenses making-off
with another £197,856.
The whole of the £585,139 balance
was added to the life fund, which then
exceeded liabilities under life policies by
£189,764, of which £167,674 was earned
during the term. From this surplus
£138,516 was allocated as reversionary
bonuses at “increased rates,” £51,248
being carried forward ; the life fund, in-
cluding £70,000 earmarked for “new-
business expansion,” standing at
£6,258,688.
The effective interest-rate on invested
funds advanced by 6s. 4d. p.c. to
£4 17s. 3d. p.c., further widening the
margin between the assumed 3 p.c.
earning-rate used in calculating policy-
liabilities and the actual rate. The sur-
plus resulting from this variation is the
main source of bonuses to policyholders.
Shareholders look to the return from
investments, other than those represent-
ing insurance funds, and earnings of the
accident department for the bulk of their
divs. • v
Premium income of the accident
department rose by £10,566 to £176,262
last term. The reserve for unexpired
risks was increased by £4227 to £70,505,
claims taking 48.7 p.c. of the balance
(against 42.1 p.c. in 1956) and expenses
43 p.c. (44 p.c.), to leave a profit of
£15,914 after drawing on a claims-
equalisation reserve for £2200.
The figures of the operating co.’s two
departments are combined in the follow-
ing table:
A.P.A. Association, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves, serves.)
£ £ £ £ £
Less taxation reserve, £10,250 .. 4,034,674
Add exchange fluctuations, £8954 .. 4,043,628
To staff fund, £539 4,043,089
1952.. 727,093 226,370 191,213 309,5-10 4,352,599
Less taxation reserve, £4OOO .... 4,348,599
Add exchange fluctuations, £7020 .. 4,355,619
To staff fund, £BO7 .. .. .. 4,354,812
1953.. 837,004 250,704 207,396 378,904 4,733,716
Add tax reserve, £27,000 .. .. 4,760,716
Less exchange fluctuation, £45,754 .. 4,714,962
Unexplained reduction, £23,398 . . 4,691,564
1954.. 990,132 261,756 228,790 499,586 5,191,150
Add tax reserve, £3OOO .. .". 5,194,150
1955. 1,054,518 293,698 272,360 488,460 5,682,610
To staff fund, £42,500 .. .. 5,640,110
Less tax reserve, £10,500 .. .. 5,629,610
1956. 1,191,961 318,849 309,268 563,844 6,193,454
Less tax reserve, £5OO . . . . 6.192,954
1957. 1,275,829 336,448 353,410 585,971 6,778,925
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders, 1952,
£21,600; 1953, £27,000; 1954, £36,000; 1955,
£45,000; 1956, £54,000; 1957, £Bl,OOO.
t Includes special tax reserve, now £59,000.
The net return from those investments
working for shareholders, with other
sundry items of income, slipped by £8617
to £61,459, mainly as a result of the delay
in passing-on land-tax by increased
rentals. Added to the accident-depart-
ment surplus, this gave a net profit of
£77,373, £15,239 below the comparable
figure in the previous term and equal to
10.7 p.c. of the holding co.’s paid capital
when acquisition of the assurance co. is
complete. An additional £2432 came
from excess tax-provisions. The div.-
rate was lifted from 15 p.c. to 22£
p.c., undistributed profits from prior
years being drawn on to the extent of
£1195. No dividend (as such) was paid
by the holding co.
Government and semi-government
securities (up £572,915) accounted for
60.3 p.c. of the operating co.’s assets at
the end of the in other cos.
(up £67,285) dropping back from 24.1
p,c. to 22.1 p.c. of total assets:
A.P.A. Association, Ltd.
1954 i 1955. 1956. 1957.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 3,336,474 3,868,159 4,142,459 4,715,374
Mortgages...- 390,961 348,412 415,730 472,773
Loans on
policies, etc. 109,006 142,321 162,839 182,272
Book debts,
cash, etc. . 198,621 212,321 232,491 264,248
Equipment . 22,153 8,382 8,298 15,343
Properties.. 387,028 382,696 380,510 396,291
-Shares, etc. 1,538,703 1,620,099 1,704,554 1,771,839
5,982,946 6,582,390 7,046,881 7,818,140
Creditors . . 431,796 539,780. 493,427 679,215
Net
tangibles . 5,551,150 6,042,610 6,553,454 7,138,925
Assur. fund* 4,797,330 5,187,238 5,669,827 6,259,193
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1954,
£51,393; 1955, £58,803; 1956, £66,278;
1957, £70,505.
Net tangibles, at conservative book-values,
exceeded assurance funds, etc., by
£879,732 to represent 245. sd. for each
of the 720,000 £1 shares which will make
up the paid-capital of A.P.A. Holdings
when the reorganisation is completed.
Hilton Hosiery, Ltd. (Melbourne)
HPHE energetic and forward-looking
Hilton group has chalked-up an en-
viable record in the first decade of its
public career. The arinual dividend-rate
on ordinary capital has averaged nearly
17 p.c., while equity-shareholders’ port-
folios have been swollen hy two handouts
of bonus-scrip, 33-for-100 in September,
1950, and 2-for-3 in November, 1952. In
addition, the co. has grown plenty of
wool on.its back in the form of tangible
reserves, which at latest balance-date
stood at £1,047,094, giving each ss. ord.
a 13s. 4d. cover.
Naturally, the sharemarket rates such
glamor-scrip highly, and peak bids over
the past four years have ranged from
20s. to 21s. 6d. Currently, the ords. at
17s. 9d. would return a £5 12s. Bd. p.c.
yield from a consistent 20 p.c. div.-rate.
The parent began operations as a pro-
prietary in 1936, specialising in the
knitting of hosiery (in the restricted sense)
for men, women and children. Although
a very favorable earning-potential was
apparent from the outset, immediate plans
for expansion were postponed by the war,
which cut off supplies of Japanese silk,
forcing the utilisation of rayon as a stop-
gap.
In the immediate post-war years,
knitting plant, normally obtained from
Germany, the world-supplier, was virtu-
ally unprocurable, and production was
rationalised by the amalgamation in
June, 1947, of Hilton Knitting Mills Pty.
with Mignon- Hosiery Pty. to form the
present hdlding co., paid-up capital being
£171,320.
By this Lime, the commercialisation of
polyamides, particularly nylon, had
ushered in a new era, and shipments of
the fibre were arriving from the U.K.
Subsequently, the group achieved a
measure of independence by buying a
yarn-processing plant.
Although new earning records have
been claimed with each successive year,
a levelling-off is noticeable since 1954,
exemplified by earning-rates on share-
holders’ funds,from 1953 onwards, which
were 19.6 p.c., 25.9 p.c., 19.3 p.c., 17.6
p.c., 15.1 p.c. (to 1957).
Higher operating costs and sharpened
competition have caused margins to
shrink, and, although last term’s sales
jumped by 16 p.c. to £3,263,540, net
profit at £259,266 was only £Bl5B higher,
after a. £161,022 (up £21,872) for
depreciation and £182,636 (up £9963) for
co.-tax:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
r — To Re- Re-
June Profit. Pref. Ord. serves. serves.t
30, £ £ £ £ £
5 p.c. 20 p.c.
1952 . . 85,691 5000 46,821 33,870 372,650
Revaluation res. capitalised, £156,071
5 p.c. 16§ p.c.
1953 . . 152,762 5000 65,029 82,733 299,312
To staff fund, £45,000 .. .. 254,312
Unexplained addition, £43,231 .. 297,543
5 p.c. 20 p.c.
1954 . . 242,762 5000 78,036 159,726 457,269
To staff fund, £5OOO 452,269
Assets revalued, £50,000 .. .. 502,269
Unexplained addition, £23,795 .. 526,064
Increased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £72,984 599,048
5-6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1955 .. 250,575 5500* 87,286 157,789 756,837
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 741,837
Decreased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £23,867 717,970
6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1956 . . 251;108 6000 90,958 154,150 872,120
To staff fund, £7500 .. .. 864,620
Increased difference between par value
and cost of shares in subsids., £53,590 918,210
6 p.c. 20 p.c.
1957 . . 259,266 6000 113,382 139,884 1,058,094
* Pref. div. rate increased from 5 p.c. to 6 p.c.
Sept., 1955. f Subject to intangibles, £ll,OOO at
June 30, 1957.
Scrip to the value of £102,499 was issued
during the term cts consideration for the
balance of shares in Charmaine Hosiery
Mills Pty. and the entire ordinary hold-
ing in Yoffa Hosiery and Knitting Mills,
Pty., bringing paid-up capital to £666,907.
Latest accounts show a high degree of
stability, with shareholders’ and outside
funds nicely balanced:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Capital— 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO.OOO
Ord. .. ... 445,177 464,408 566.907
Reserves .. .. 756,837 872,120 1,058,094
Outside interests.. 42,237 25,875
Overdraft .. 109,535 383,582 322,126
Creditors . . . . 117,868 121,390 158,243
Staff fund* .. 50,000 72,500 90,500
Tax provision ~ 218,670 235,179 183,684
Final divs. . 47,518 49,440 59,691
£1,845,605 £2,340,856 £2,565,120
Freeholds and lease-
holds . . .. 421.668 566,374 650,933
Plant, etc. . . 577,239 715,218 706,859
Stocks . . . . 414,049 566,564 835,851
Debtors .. .. 411,649 471,700 349,347
Investments .. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Goodwill 11,000 11,000 12.130
£1,845,605 £2,340,856 £2,565,120
* Includes long-service provision.
Working-capital improved to £471,454,
compared with the preceding term’s
£258,673, but the liquid position
remained static, larger inventory-hold-
ings absorbing an additional £269,287.
Fixed assets, £1,357,792, are included at
cost-or-valuation, less depreciation,


D&I
ESTABLISHED 1882
Deposit & Investment Go. Ltd.
Registered in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra.
Issue oversubscribed os
to £500,000
which was underwritten, but the Company
will accept total oversubscriptions
of £400,000
thus limiting the total to £900,000
5 to 7 years
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTCAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
A FULLY SECURED AND SAFE INVESTMENT
BECAUSE Deposit & Investment Co. Ltd. was registered in Sydney in 1882
more than seventy-five years ago. Its record is outstanding, and the Company
during that time has always paid an annual dividend. First Mortgage
Debenture Stock is a secured loan, the repayment of which has first claim
on the assets of the Company,
INTEREST PAYABLE QUARTERLY
DIRECTORS
Wallace Rae Schofield,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.)
(Chairman of Directors).
Thomas Henry Martin
(Company Director).
William Frederick Pattinson
(Company Director).
TRUSTEE
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited).
INVESTIGATING ACCOUNTANTS
Kent, Brierley & Fisher,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
BANKERS
Bank of New South Wales.
UNDERWRITERS
Ralph W. King & Yuill,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney.
80 Fitooy Street, Grafton 159
APPLICATION and PROSPECTUS now obtainable from
• All Branches of the Bank of New South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory and Victoria.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
O DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. BW 4521.
Yule House, 309-11 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. MF 8988.
Branches in New South Wales and in Victoria.
1
2
4 years
7*
3 years
6i
2 years
Ei
12 mths.
01
6 mths.


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear
Ore Concentrator has
proved over many years to
be remarkably efficient,
simple and inexpensive to
operate.
Send for illustrated Bulletin
to the sole manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for x ,
Kapid Magnetting Machines,
George Ellison Switch Gear,
etc. Makers of Classifiers,
Water*Filters, Steam Valves,
etc.
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult- without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - BIT 3445
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MB 4081
which does not appear to have
been understated.
While all-round sales, par-
ticularly of socks and processed
yarn, are being well main-
tained, fully fashioned hosiery
has a strong rival to contend
with in seamless stockings, and
seamless machines have been
bought to meet this competi-
tion. As a makeweight to the
falling profit-margins, pene-
tration of the allied lingerie
market is to be stepped-up, and
marked success is expected in
this field.
Dividends in past years have
been more than adequately
covered, but increased capital-'
expenditure necessitated "by
fashion and technological
changes is likely in the immedi-
ate future to lead to a more
conservative policy as regards
profit-distribution.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
TTNLESS there is a marked
improvement in metal
prices North Broken Hill
expects “only a relatively small
profit” from the current term’s
mining activities.
Investment income should
be “satisfactory, although
somewhat lower.”
Operating one of the largest
and richest of the silver-lead-
zinc mines at the Barrier, North
handled a greater quantity of
ore last term, but the sag in
base-metal prices resulted in a
smaller mine surplus, invest-
ments being largely responsible
for the 4.6 p.c. lift in darnings.
The 393,354 tons (up 13,289
tons) of ore extracted came
mainly from the North section,
the mill treating 395,042 tons
(up 17,267 tons) averaging 12.9
p.c. lead, 6.90 z. silver and 11
p.c. zinc (compared with 13
p.c. lead, 7oz. silver and 10.9
p.c. zinc in the 1956 term) for
the following concentrates:
f Assay \
Lead, Silver, Zinc.
Lead— Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1956 .. 66,736 71.2 36.2 5.1
1957 . . 69,311 71.0 36.2 6.1
Zinc—
-1956 .. 69,987 0.9 1.5 51.0
1957 .. 74,326 0.9 1.5 51.2
Metal recoveries, in concen-
trate, were 97 p.c. lead, 91.6
p.c. silver and 87.5 p.c. zinc.
Mine ex p e rfd itu r e (up
£193,958) increased with pro-
duction, but at £lL9s. Id. a
ton of ore treated compared
favorably with the previous
term’s £ll 9s. 3d. per ton.
Average price received for
lead sold overseas by Br6ken
Hill Associated Smelters Pty.,
which takes all North’s lead
concentrates, was down 18s. 9d.
at £l3l os. Bd., while the
average price for zinc was also
“slightly lower.” (Zinc concen-
trates go to E.Z. Industries,
Ltd.) The fall in metal prices
gained momentum towards the
close of the term and quotes
for lead and zinc on the
London Metal Exchange have
slipped by almost 34 p.c. and
36 p.c. respectively over the
past year..
The co.’s large and growing
investment-portfolio figures in
the balance-sheet at over five
times the par-value of paid
capital, investment income
rising by £61,216 last term to
account for most of the £73,019
improvement in total income:
Revenue— 1956. 1957.
Mine products £7,246,125 £7,257,928
Investments . . 580,821 64-2,037
£7,826,940 £7,899,965
Expenditure—
'Mine .. .. 4,330.483 4,524,441
P. and 1. items 1,471,166 1,255,628
£5,801,649 £5,780,069
Net profit .. £2,025,297 £2,119,890
Resulting from the reduction
in rates of co.-taxation, as well
as from the smaller taxable
income, a lower provision for
taxation , (down £218,000 at
£711,000) was the chief factor
behind the £215,538 drop in
p.-and-l. expenses, net profit
from all sources increasing by
£94,599 to £2,119,896. Earn-
ings equalled a shade' under
15s. 2d. a share (14s. 6d. in
the previous term), 10s. 7d.
coming from mining operations
and 4s. 7d. from investments.
The ord.. div. was trimmed
from 210 p.c. to 200 p.c., but
was still well above the 158 p.c.
average for the past five years.
Diamond-drilling failed to
reveal any significant informa-
tion relating to the ore-body
below the 4000 ft. horizon, and
further deep-drilling will be
limited until suitable sites are
made available with the open-
ing-up 'hf the lower levels from
No. 3 shaft (commenced 10
years ago to serve a large
deposit at the northern end of
the leases).
Ore reserves at June 30 last
were estimated at 4,846,000
tons (down 37,000 tons), or
over 12 years’ work for the
mill at last term’s rate of
throughput. Nearly all the
oxidised ore has been mined
from the upper levels and,
with this fact in mind, it was
decided to convert the existing
gravity-cw/n-flotation plant to
an all-flotation circuit.
Finances are buoyant, the
surplus of current assets and
investments over liabilities
increasing by £539,228 :
1956. . 1957.
Shares other cos. £3,468,140 £3,709,699
Stores . . .. 433,622 360,822
Concentrates on
hand. etc. .. 1,426,092 1,185,816
Debtors . . 379,592 247,052
Cashj etc. .. 1,528,404 2,302,143
Liquid assets .. £7,235.850 £7,805,532
Less liabilities* 3,081,991 3,112,445
Liquid surplus.. £4,153,859 £4.693,087
* Includes provision for taxation, final
divs., etc.
At the beginning of the term
it was estimated that work in
connection with No. 3 shaft
would call for £950,000 “over
the next several years.”
The div.-rate in the current
year will be determined by
movements in the metal market
and the level of capital-expendi-
ture planned for next term.
Buyers offering 100 s. for
the f.-p. ss. units (1375. a year
ago) anticipate a div. some-
where in the vicinity of 120 p.c.
A.O.E.
VI7HETHER the reorganisa-
” tion of Australasian Oil
Exploration, Ltd., as proposed
by the board last week, takes
place or not, it appears certain
that shareholders will have to
put up fresh capital if they
are to maintain their equity in
the assets already owned by
the co.
A 35 p.c. holding in Mary
Kathleen Uranium, Ltd. (pos-
sibly worth around £2 million),
is, of course, the asset in which
shareholders are mainly
interested, the co.’s large rutile
plant having been placed on a
care - and - maintenance basis
last October as a result of
unprofitable rutile prices. Mary
Kathleen has yet to reach the
revenue-producing stage.
A.O.E. urgently needs about
£400,000 to satisfy its creditors
and provide working-capital, a
situation which reflects on the
way the co.’s programme has
been planned (or as it has
“just growed”) and carried out.
The board’s present plan for
overcoming the co.’s financial
problems involves the forma-
tion of two new cos., Mary
Kathleen Holdings, Ltd., and
Rutile Holdings, Ltd., which
will take over the uranium and
rutile interests respectively.
Included with uranium
interests is an agreement with
the Stanleigh Uranium Mining
Corp. of Canada relating to
the Anderson lode at Mt. Isa.
A.O.E. shareholders will
then be given four ,ss. M.K.
Holdings shares and 25 ss.
Rutile Holdings shares for
every 100 ss. shares held in
A.O.E. with another 15 M.K.
Holdings shares offered at par.
In other words, a shareholder
wishing to preserve his equity
in the uranium leases will need
to find 9d. (or 15 p.c. of the
par value) for every share now
held.
Rutile Holdings will acquire
the assets not taken over by
M.K. Holdings by the issue of
scrip to A.O.E. Of the £417,418
made available to M.K. Hold-
ings by the cash-issue, £346,720
will go to A.O.E. as part con-
sideration for both its uranium
interests and the paid capital
of Rutile Holdings, leaving a
■working - capital of £50,000
after meeting the underwriting-
commission.
The sharemarket priced 100
A.O.E. shares at around
121 s. lOd. at the end of last
week, buyers at this price,
prepared to put up another
755. for the proposed cash-
issue, obtaining 19 ss. shares
in M.K. Holdings at an effec-
tive cost of a fraction over
10s. 4d. each, with 25 Rutile
Holdings shares thrown in.
Rio Tinto Mining Co. of
Australia Pty., which holds a
large block of A.O.E. scrip as
well as 55 p.c. of the Mary
Kathleen Uranium capital, is
reported to have suggested an
alternative plan, and has stated
that it is not associated with,
nor has it approved, the present
scheme of reorganisation.


aH LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
Da/gettj
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
T.O FRANCIS GEORGE ELLIS late of
Main Road Marks Point.—TAKE
NOTICE that JOAN ELLIS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2072 of 1957
oif the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 24th of February 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. BRAYE
CRAGG COHEN & CHAPMAN, Bolton
Street, Newcastle, Solicitors for the
Petitioner. —J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
sse
BBS
Mm
m
: •I
«w « *; -* « ~
Bulk grain
storage saves
. time-money
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheet*
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platform* are
available a* extra* if
required
• Prompt delivery .
LYSAGHT
Grain
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
PRICES (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
S27AC
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A CHARACTERISTIC of
the British Communist
party is the continuous turnover
in its membership. Up to a
year ago this was fairly steady
and confined, for the most
part, to the drifting rank-and-
file. The occasions when a
confirmed active member—
usually an office-holder or its
equivalent renounced his
membership and became a
“defectionist” were rare
enough to be sensational.
As is well known, the after-
math of the Hungarian revolu-
tion split the party drastically,
with the result that several
members of long-standing trust
and conviction resigned. It is
this circumstance, more than
any other, which has led to the
present shindy in Britain’s only
Communist-controlled union,
that of the electrical trades. In
a ballot for the national execu-
tive, a former Communist, L. J.
Cannon, is believed to have
polled some 300 more votes
than a Communist, J. N. Frazer.
But, after an investigation into
complaints of irregularities,
carried out by the general-
secretary, Frazer was declared
tlected.
The loser was, in fact,
manoeuvred on to the junta of
five which controls, with cynical
ruthlessness, the affairs of the
300,000 electricians, many of
whom have key jobs in power-
stations and other vital con-
cerns. He had to be because,
as the constitution stood,
decisions were required to be
unanimous; a single dissen-
tient, Cannon for example,
could impose a veto. (Last
year, in Yorkshire, a similar
investigation was carried out
over alleged irregularities,
which were admitted, but the
successful candidate, being a
Communist, was allowed to
retain his place.)
Tails You Lose
The E.T.U.’s background is
illuminating as well as frighten-
ing—a classic instance of
Communist infiltration and
determination. It took the
Reds 10 years to gain control.
At first they kept within the law,
helped by the apathy of the
majority of the members and
two turning-points—control of
the London area just before the
war, and the promotion of non-
C'ommunists to jobs on the
Electricity Board when it was
nationalised in 1946.
As they grew in power, so
did they become more and more
ruthless in method. Apart
from rigging elections, con-
cealed tape - recorders were
used during interviews and
inquisitions ; the technique of
“guerrilla” strikes was per-
fected ; modern business-effici-
ency was introduced at their
headquarters ; a country-house,
Esher Place, once the property
of Cardinal Wolsey, was
bought and used as a training-
college, costing the members
£5OO a week.
Esher Place has now been
sold, as, notwithstanding the
union’s yearly income of some
£600,000, funds are low. In
1954 expenditure exceeded
income by nearly £300,000 ; the
union had to release £200,000
in strike-pay to engineering and
shipbuilding workers earlier
this year ; and its yearly run-
ning costs must approach
£150,000.
Following strong-arm tactics
on the part of the union-bosses,
members have for some time
given signs of restiveness, and,
at present, tempers are high. At
a recent meeting the president
and secretary were booed.
Nevertheless, the Communists’
hold is secure. Even if Mr.
Cannon were to be reinstated in
the office which he was never
allowed to assume he would
have no authority. For, seeing
the danger light, the junta has,
by no means for the first time,
altered the constitution. Noth-
ing, it seems, but a revolution
physically overthrowing the
rulers could free the union from
its domination.
Public opinion, naturally, is
most concerned. The T.U.C. is
ifnpotent, for its constitution
forbids the interference with
the internal affairs of member
unions. In other words, it is
unable to keep its own house in
order. But “The Times,” hav-
ing in mind the analogies of
State safeguards over the
“operations of organisations
involving large numbers of
people” and of the restrictions
to which public companies
rightly are subject, argues that
there is a case for the Registrar
of Friendly Societies to inter-
vene.
The end of the affair has
certainly not yet been heard.


The Seven Pillows of O’Shaunnesy
By CLIVE MORTON
WE had often seen the
seven pillows in
O’Shaunnesy’s shed,
Gilly and I.
Stacked-on a shelf between
two packets of thallium rat-
bait O’Shaunnesy once meant
to lay in his sugarcane and the
faded, framed photograph of a
girl he had once meant to
marry, the pillows had rested
for a long time.
Rats had found them and left
a little kapok-trail from the
corner of ope, a pilfering which
inflamed the mind of O'Shaun-
nesy. He protected his pillows
with three - successive com-
mercial evolutions, canvas,
sisalkraft and plastic, so that
the rats, discouraged, turned
to the paper bags of thallium,
burrowed deeply into them,
made nests, and reared their
families there instead.
We had discovered the pro-
tected pillows, remote as
covered corpses, fought fear,
lifted a corner of the fear and
the three layers and looked.
Thus we learned of the exis-
tence of the seven pillows and
turned to O’Shaunnesy for
explanation of the last mystery,
origin.
There was an Army-disposals
sale, O’Shaunnesy said, with
vague hints ol scandal andean
Irishman’s relish of melan-
choly in his voice, as he
plucked from his mind the fine,
sharp details. There were also
a tractor, a fine machine,
boxed, unopened, unused,
sealed, khaki-duco’d —that and
a buying-ring.
O’Shaunnesy yearned for the
tractor and lost.
Five-shillings he Had named
in token-bid elsewhere against
the appeal of another unopened
box, a set of Whitworth-
spanners-, tractor - sized.
O’Shaunnesy's story needed the
consolation of the spanner-
bargain, otherwise it would
never have lived for the telling,
for O’Shaunnesy has built be-
tween himself and the" world a
solid wall of belief in his own
infallibility.
“Take half-a-dozen pillows
with you,” the commission-
agent had said, expansive,
disposal-sale-bloated.
O’Shaunnesy had stood and
let the tide of his indignity,
surging with the suspicion that
the agent was connected with
the dark-souled men of the
buying-ring, wash against the
practical appeal of the gift. He
had taken the pillows, but not
without gesture. Six, the agent
had said —seven went into the
back of O’Shaunnesy’s utility.
He had contemplated the
gesture and found it too frail
By mistake, he loaded another
box of Whitworth-spanners,
tractor-sized.
O’Shaunnesy was no robber.
The extra pillow, the second
box of spanners, like utility-
petrol burnt on fishing trips,
yet labelled “Tractor fuel” in
his income-tax return, and the
snigging-chain behind his
tractor, unbolted from a cane-
truck of the Colonial Sugar
Refinery Company, left his
vulnerable conscience
unsavaged.
We liked O’Shaunnesy, Gilly
and 1, and O’Shaunnesy needed
us. There were many
who grew restless at
the fictions that
travelled across the
mind of O’Shaun-
nesy the pure poet.
We listened.
r pHUS we learned of the seven
A pillows and the wild scrub-
turkey which ate with his fowls.
O’Shaunnesy was proud of his
fowls. Only a year before he
had grown weary of , searching
for eggs in tall bladey-grass,
and discouraging passing
carpet-snakes from strangling
hens nightly in the boughs of
his mango-trees, and built a
coop for them.
Although, unlike O'Shaun-
nesy, we never saw the wild
scrub-turkey which ate among
them, always a little before we
arrived or slightly later than
we left, we had often admired
the coop. It was a fine coop,
made with great skill, and-
honesty, selected after long,and
painstaking considera-
tion. True, it stood half a mile
from the house, but nowhere
else on the acres of O’Shaun-
nesy had the trees grown with
such vital precision.
Only on this spot had its
builder found four corner-posts,
suitably sized, growing in exact
position for building. Not only
had their growth saved him
time and labor, but they lent to
his structure a strength and
permanence that only living
foundations could give.
With his corner-posts topped
and squared and therefore com—
plete, O’Shaunnesy needed only
lesser uprights, galvanised -
iron and netting to house his
fowls.
Even the Crown had not
suffered. O'Shaunnesy paid
royalty for the remainder of
his posts, bloodwoods large
enough to slip a battleship.
His honesty extended to net-
ting. He had resisted
without effort the temp-
tation of his neighbor
Pawpaw’s wallaby-fence
which travelled to his
boundary, and even
declined the stronger
appeal of the Bft. barrier
which protected the
sugar-mill’s experimental cane-
plot.
TXE had bought his netting
11 in town. Thus the trans-
gressions of Percy Netlleford
bit deeply. . .
We had ridden through the


moonlight one evening to listen
to O’Shaunnesy. Gilly’s father
had held us for a moment of
advice and prophecy at the
horsetrough as we departed.
“None of this stopping-out half
the night,” he said, “otherwise
I’ll tan you both.”
The night was clear and
bright, crisped with an edge of
winter that brought the dew
early to the grass. We flinched,
dismounting, as our feet
buried deep in dew-softened
grass and the dew burned
across our shocked toes. Along
the headland the caneleaves
lifted straight against the cool-
ness of night after the sagging
of a sun-filled day. Down the
creek, a bandicoot coughed
apologetically as it passed in its
grub-digging. From the orange-
trees of O’Shaunnesy a flying-
fox hung upside-down quarrel-
ling with a competitor flapping
near with hooked, webbed,
ungainly wings.
In a half-circle of light arc’d
around the bottom of O'Shaun-
nesy’s steps by a suspended,
hissing, stormproof lantern, a
gathering of solemn cane-
toads sat around swallowing
nervously, waited for falling
beetles, and gazed into the
flickering shadows with" sad,
vacant eyes. O'Shaunnesy
came to the door, belched,
chuckled and invited us inside
as audience.
A Pyjama Girl case evalua-
tion, an appraisal of the Gatton
murder, an explanation of
absorption-type refrigerators, a
comparison of cane-inspectors,
a brutal criticism of the Queens-
land Government, and
O’Shaunnesy paused.
In the surprised silence we
sat, heads cocked, listening to
the small noises of the night.
From across the chilled pad-
docks, shrunken by distance,
carrying into the calm, canie the
outraged, shrieking protest of
a fowl. “Listen,” O'Shaunnesy
ordered unnecessarily and
crossed to the door.
Again the urgent shocked
demand filtered through the
night.
“It can’t be a carpet-snake,”
O’Shaunnesy decided ; “that’s
snakeproof wire-neeting.”
He scratched at a receding
hair-line, leaned forward,
peered unseeingly into the
surrounding moonlight, belched
and passed solemn judgment.
“It’s that bloody Percy
Nettleford,” he said.
Gilly nodded wisely.
“He pinched one of the old
man’s ducks once, the old man
reckoned. Though,” Gilly
added with scrupulous fairness,
“that dog you used to have a
while back had been hanging
around the fowl-run for a few
days.”
O'Shaunnesy _ ignored the
attempted tarnish.
“I’m going down there and
frighten hell out of him,” he
said..
He took a repeating .32-
"Winchester from a rack on
the woodeh wall, thumbed
cartridges from a knife-drawer
into the breech, withdrew a
hornet-cheating quiver of news-
paper from the muzzle, and
demanded to know where the
hurricane-lantern was.
Gilly and I followed him
nervously to the bottom of the
steps. The hurricane-lantern,
embarrassed by the first, faint
stirrings of night - wind,
flickered and died. O’Shaunnesy
economically shattered it with
one sweeping movement of his
hand against the trunk of a
mango-tree. * -
“You either have a light or
you don’t,” he explained logi-
cally. v “It’s no good fooling
around in between.”
He strode off down the head-
land. Gilly and I followed with
awkward uncertainty. The
prospects of encountering
Percy Nettleford, even rein-
forced by O’Shaunnesy and a
Winchester as buffer,' filled us
with misgivings.
Percy Nettleford was big.
Bigger even than Pawpaw.
Over our school-years we had
journeyed closer to the
influence of Percy. Our passage
was assisted by circumstance.
Percy’s school - career had
remained static until we had
eventually overtaken him.
He had entered the world as
the result of a casual romance
between the renegade brother
of our schoolteacher, Miss
Enfield, and the colored girl
who assisted with her house-
keeping. The romance might
have blossomed into more
permanent liaison if the brother
had not, with the enthusiasm
of the born craftsman, dis-
covered an infallible method of
doubling the face-value of ten-
shilling notes by separating
them with a honed razorblade.
Cheated of the altar by the
dictates of law, the girl had
lingered over the years, until
offered more conventional
motherhood by a Peninsula
timber-cutter.
Percy had remained with
Miss Enfield.
We discovered a fowlhouse
empty of his presence.
O’Shaunnesy swore and took
census.
“He’s got away with a
speckled rooster and two good
laying hens,” he complained
peevishly. He glared fiercely
into the moonlight.
“If I could catch him at it,
I’d fill him so full of holes that
flaming old aunty of his could
use him as a soup-strainer,” he
said, emphasising the words in
air with a shaking of the
Winchester.
In spite of our indignation
over Percy’s larceny, we felt
the first faint stirrings of
protest at O’Shaunnesy’s mild
blasphemy against Miss
Enfield.
Gilly was moved to an
expression of gallantry, his
thoughts gently balanced
between affection for O'Shaun-
nesy and loyalty to Miss
Enfield. Once, she had re-
turned to him with fork un-
broken a shanghai impressed in
the morning class-room, a
gesture too deep and significant
to ignore when she stood in
need of a champion. He
turned towards the fowlhouse,
considering the delicacy of the
situation.
“She’s not a bad old beggar,”
he compromised.
O’Shaunnesy snorted his
doubt into the nigbt. Gilly,
torn with indecision, gazed
away from us in embarrass-
ment across a paddock of
O’Shaunnesy’s oldest young
plant-cane.
“Look! ” he squeaked, point-
ing into the moonlight. “It’s
Percy sneaking up to the
house.”
O’Shaunnesy turned
“I bet the cunning cow’s
after my flamin’ oranges,” he
yelped. “He must have seen us
come down here, he couldn’t
have gone home at all yet.”
He pumped the lever of his
Winchester murderously.
“By God,” he prophesied,
as he gazed at the shadowy
figure gliding up a canedrill in
the silvered light, “I’ll teach
him a lesson he’ll n e y e r
forget.”
An orange flame stabbed at
the night and the sound of
explosion whistled and rocked
in our ears.
“Ha! ” O’Shaunnesy chortled
in triumph. “That made him
dive for dirt.”
“Didya kill him?” Gilly
demanded in earnest horror.
“What?” O’Shaunnesy said,
relenting his previous homicidal
intent with a balancing of pure
logic. “Crack stones for
twenty years for the likes of
him? Do you think a man’s
flamin’-well mad?’*
He smashed another shot
across the paddock. “The first
one must have parted his hair,”
he decided. “Now I’ll chop
things up around him, just as a
hint.”
The repeater roared a burst
of fire.
“I bet that’s making him
squirm around/’ O’Shaunnesy
chuckled.
He emptied the magazine,
skirting the spot where Percy
had last appeared.
“Are you still in there?” he
demanded. A muffled acknow-
ledgment came from the cane-
drill.
“If you move an inch I’ll fill
you with lead,” O’Shaunnesy
threatened. “Now stop where
you are, you thieving mongrel,
while we come in and get you.
Fancy! ” he added. “After rob-
bing a man’s fowls, the dirty
cow has the hide and audacity
to walk right up to a man’s
house as large as life!”
He led the way up the cane-
drill. “Here he is,”' he called in
triumph. “Hold the gun on
him while I strike a match.”
Gilly took the proffered rifle
and levelled it importantly at
the huddled, pyjama-coated
figure on the ground revealed
in the flickering light of
O’Shaunnesy’s match.
“Hell,” Gilly said, his voice
sharpened by the horror of
enlightenment. “Percy didn't
sneak back after all.”
His father rose shakily from
the earth.
“I thought I told you bloody
kids to come home early,” he
said.
TT was three days before we
ventured into O’Shaunnesy’s
company again. Our aloofness
was not directed at any sudden
slackening in the previous
generous appeal of our host.
Rather it was acknowledgment
of our debt of condolence to
the lost years stolen from the
life of Gilly’s father, ten of
which, he insisted, had vanished
in the night, robbed from his
allotted span by the rifle-fire of
O^Shaunnesy.
We found O’Shaunnesy sit-
ting before the stormproof
lantern in the kitchen, the table
strewn with bullets, his mind
full of plans for the capture of
Percy.
“Mark my words, he’ll be
back,” he declared knowingly,
as he flicked a pull-through out
of his Winchester barrel; “and
I’ll catch him this time, just
you see.”
He belched an acknowledg-
ment to bachelor cooking.
“I’ve been sitting beside the
fowlhouse for two nights, now,
waiting for him,” he explained.
“I’ll get him one of these
nights.”
He shot a warning glance at
us.
“Don’t you blokes go telling
anyone about that,” he ordered;
o Continued on page 56)


The Han on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
(2)
[Hailing- from Sy«?noy’s tough
Rotks area (around the south end
of the present Harbor Bridge),
Griffo, a natural boxing genius, lias
had some tuition from JLarry
Foley, who had learnt from Jem
Mace.J
HARD fighters and hard
drinkers were equally
esteemed in Rocks
society ; Griffo had a
feeling that he could make a
splash in both branches. By
nature he had a case-hardened
head and ironbark constitution
which breasted tides of alcohol
enough to stupefy most men.
His performances with the
bottle created a buzz of com-
ment all the more gratifying
because he still had mastery
over the Demon.
His life was not at this stage,
as has at times been reported,
one long carouse. He had the
enemy in subjection most of
the time, allowing him out of
the cage on gala occasions. The
cage began to be empty more
frequently, but for the time
being it was Griffo who gave
the orders.
For most of his engagements
he climbed through the ropes in
good condition—young, fit and
devilishly strong. Otherwise he
could not have survived savage
slugging-mills with the horniest
little men in the country—Doss
Patterson, Jem Dempsey,
Nipper Peakes,,. Abe Willis,
Pluto, Tom McLeod, Paddy
Moran, George McKenzie and
many more.
Griffo was 19 when “Tor-
pedo’’ Billy Murphy from New
Zealand, world’s featherweight
champion, landed in Sydney.
He was “Torpedo” either in
recognition of his speed or the
explosive nature of his right-
hand punch, and he had sunk
with all hands Ike Weir,
previous titleholder, at San
Francisco. Weir, a species of
ring jitterbug, was known to
admirers of his antics as “The
Belfast Spider.”
Locally, the notion of a
match between Griffo and
Murphy for the world’s title
was insistent. The date was
fixed, September 15, 1890, and
Griffo began to train with ani-
mation. George Dawson stood
watching him shadow-sparring
before a mirror for a long
twenty minutes. At the end of
the exercise, Griffo seemed
satisfied.
“Just watch out, Murphy—
I'll keep the flies from settlin’
on you!”
A sound prediction. The flies
were discouraged from the start,
and so was Murphy. He could
do nothing with the elusive
Rocks machine-gunner, was
tied into knots with jabs and
feints, and pulled off his
gloves in . disgust. Griffo
the winner in 15 rounds.
TT OOKING back, it is hard to
dispute that this runaway
win gave Griffo the world's
title—first Australian to reach
the distinction, whatever may
be said about Jimmy Car-
ruthers.
But the record-books (except
the British) don’t see it> that
way. William John Doherty,
confronted with the fact that
some of* the books showed
Murphy as champion from
1890 to 1892, could only com-
ment (in his book In the Days
of the Giants) that it was
“amazing, because Griffo again
beat Murphy in 1891, in 22
rounds.”
Modern American opinion
consoles itself with the dis-
covery that the match was
advertised as being for the Aus-
tralian and not the world’s
championship. It makes one
concession: “Had Griffo come
to America immediately after
beating Murphy, it is“likely that
his titular status would have
been accepted.”
But in that simple era,
recognition of title's was carried
on the voices. The loudest
voices were in the U.S.A.
To trace the descent of the
title after Weir and Murphy
held it is to see the line of
succession vanish in mid-air.
Two or three prominent Ameri-
cans, finding nobody installed
on the throne, ran up their own
colors. They knew that Tor-
pedo Murphy had twice been
donkey-licked by an Australian
with- the peculiar name of
-Young Griffo. But this Griffo
—if he really existed —was too
far away to be considered:
what was the use of a champion
who stayed buried on the other
side of the Pacific, a champion
“ Torpedo ” Billy Murphy, at
the time he became champion.
He was born at Auckland
(N.Z.). and was a wonderful
little fighter at his best flail for
a bantam (5ft. 6i¼n.),and with
a 69½n. reach.
whom practically no civilised
person had ever seen?
Whereupon Johnny Griffin,
of Massachusetts, declared
himself ch ampion and
generously invited all-comers to
challenge him. The Belfast
Spider, not to be left out of it,
made 4 noisy counter -
announcement on his own
behalf. But there was a third
pretender George Dixon,
“Little Chocolate.”
This Dixon, bantam cham-
pion, was a fighter and a half,
and ranks as one of the
immortals in ring folklore. He
had started to grow out of his
class; as a featherweight, he
could be stronger and more
comfortable in every way. His
astute manager, Tom O’Rourke,
came in promptly on cue. With
fight-manager logic, he dis-
posed of Johnny Griffin and
produced tables of stone prov-
ing that Dixon was the
champion.
What was more to the point,
the public stood solidly behind
Dixon's claim —or so he
informed the public. O'Rourke
felt secure ; he was sheltered by
the artillery of Richard K. Fox.
Fox was proprietor of - the
New York “Police Gazette/' a
sporting and sportive journal
which had little remaining
connection with the police-
force. He was a mighty sooth-
sayer in prizefight circles,'and
the stuff he printed carried the
smack of authority. His solu-
tion had a statesmanlike sim-
plicity—Dixon was champion,
he asserted, and he called on
Messrs. Griffin and Weir to
challenge in approved form.
A little later on, Griffin and
Weir having lapsed from the
issue, Fox decorated Dixon
with a championship belt, and
the new dynasty, was founded.
The name of Griffo had not
been mentioned, even by acci-
dent, and the American public
forgot the hazy fragments they
had read about him.
ABOUT all this Griffo knew
hardly anything, and cared
even less. He was a champion
to his cronies and back-slappers
recognition enough. He
couldn't read, and in any case
the home newspapers did not
reprint from the “Police
Gazette.” He was in funds,
and his horizon was cloudless,
as far as he could see.
To some onlookers, the pros-
pect was not so buoyant as
Griffo imagined. The
Bulletin, after his return-bout
with Murphy, was out-
spoken : —-
Tlie scamp proved he could defy
alt the rules of training and still
“get it all over” his opponent.
But if Griffo has any real friends,
they should induce him. to emi»
grate, no matter where, so long
he gets rid of the rowdy element


got*
%
it
i
z
with my easy-to-use
BROWNIE FLASHH
Camera . . .
With a new Brownie Flash 11
Camera in your hands you, too, can
say "Got it!" . . . and you know you'll
have caught every expression, every
detail. Its high-quality Kodet lens
ensures sparkling pictures; built-in
portrait lens permits close-ups at 3
feet £3/3/9
BROWNIE FLASH GIFT OUTFITTOO!
For picture-making, day or
night, you should own this out-
fit .. . comprising Brownie
Flash II Camera, Kodak
Flasholder (complete with fit-
tings), Kodak Film, flashbulbs,
batteries, bulb adaptor . . .
everything you need for any-
where, anytime snapshots. A
perfect gift for family photo-
graphers of all ages £7/6/4
ft
Kodak
EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
that now surrounds him. They
have done him no good.
This was a hit at Griffo’s link
with the Rocks “push.” Some
of the better-organised pushes
kept a. membership roll, but
their general business went
unrecorded except in the police-
courts. No balance-sheets or
lists of office-bearers remain,
but it was common report that
Griffo was the leader or “King”
of the Rocks push.
It could have been so ; the
king found it an advantage to
be a first-class fist-swinger.
Although the humdrum
violence of the pushes was
founded on the three B’s —
boots, bottles and blue-metal—
there were special occasions
when etiquette called for bare
knuckles. In “The Mirror of
the Sea,” Joseph Conrad tells
how he sometimes overheard
these formal affairs:—-
The night humors of the town
deseended from the street to the
waterside in the still watches of
the night: larrikins rushing down
in hands to settle some quarrel
by a stand-up light, away from
the police, in an indistinct ring
half-hidden by piles of cargo,
with the sound of blows, a groan
now and then, the stamping of feet,
and the cry of “Time!” rising
suddenly above the sinister and
excited murmurs.
• With Griffo, as with most
members, the push was a sort
of pavement pastime - club
which had the merit of costing
hardly anything. Club equip-
ment and material was readily
to hand, as local property-
holders began to discover.
There was a lively programme
of • skirmishes with the police
and foreign pushes, and if bones
were cracked and blood
splashed about, it was a trifle in
those untender times.
On the convivial side there
were picnics and dancing, Sun-
day excursions to Chowder
Bay or Clontarf, with singing of
songs which were grossly ribald
where they were not grossly
sentimental. T*he gaiety wound
up more often than not in a
donnybrook.
There is no record that
Griffo was other than an
average pushite, no better and
no worse than the majority.
He probably drank more than
most, and would always joust
with enthusiasm, but most of
the damage fell on himself.
His training - sessions were
escaping from the gymnasium
to the bar-room.
Between the ropes he was
principally occupied in 1891
with crushing Billy Williams in
eight rounds and winning from
Geo. Powell on a foul in 20.
Early the next year Mick
McCarthy, a really good light-
weight, returned from a string
of successes in the United
States. Matched with Griffo,
he suffered a sensational thrash-
ing in four rounds, and had to
retire, so thoroughly had
Griffo chopped him to pieces../
performance impressed
everybody. “Induce him
to emigrate,” The Bulletin
had said, and now the urging
was general.
America, they told him, was
a goldmine for one of his
talents. There was little more
to it than stepping on the
steamer preferably with
several chaff-bags to carry back *
the loot.
Griffo was interested enough
to book his passage. But on
sailing-day he was missing ; he
had taken fright at the last
moment. In a secluded bar,
with a couple of supporters, he
was-nervously swallowing beer
until the Mariposa should clear
the Heads.
With the danger gone, they
drank a toast to his lucky
escape. The organisers of the
trip sourly watched him return
to the roses and raptures of life
with the push.
When he met Jerry Marshall,
an energetic black fighter, at the
Darlinghurst Hall, Griffo made
the mistake of celebrating
victory in advance. He barely
managed to preserve his reputa-
tion. Marshall was tearing it
to shreds when Griffo’s cohorts
from the Rocks stormed the
ring and turned proceedings
into bedlam.
The well-wishers who were
trying to pry the limpet Griffo
0 Continued on page 39)


LAVARACK
By “EK DUM"
T FIRST met Sir John Lavarack on a
•*- hot February day more than 50
years ago. I was standing inside the door
of the great hall of Brisbane Grammar
School with a bottle of ink in my hand
waiting to salute another midget whom
I had seen coming across the yard.
Footsteps approached. The ambush
closed. The next moment I found myself
being thoroughly maltreated by some-
thing that looked to me like a hurricane
consisting of Dalmatian dogs. When
things calmed down it seemed that instead
of ambushing my best friend I had
picked on a large, gangling, rather cada-
verous sixth-former of eighteen in a
(formerly) white suit —one who did not
have much sense of humor: Lavarack.
He had been earnest in his reprisals,
as he was earnest in everything. So
earnest that though we became friendly
in later years I always felt a tendency to
keep out of reach in his presence —even
in the receiving-line when General
Berryman gave him a reception after he
had been appointed Governor of
Queensland.
John Lavarack —“Joe” to his friends —
came ot' a pastoral family of North
Queensland. He had two brothers at
Brisbane Grammar School, and all three
served in the artillery in World War I—
himself with the F.A. as a permanent
soldier until he became Sinclair
McLagan’s chief staff-officer, his two
brothers with howitzer batteries.
At school he was not brilliant, save in
one subject—mathematics. He became
mathematical dux in 1904 through
winning the Sir James Cockle Prize —it
had been won two years before by his
contemporary, who afterwards became
Lieutenant-General C. G. N. Miles and
whose peace-time military career curiously
paralleled his own, the pair rotating high-
ranking offices, and in between by Sir
Alfred Davidson.
Lavarack joined the Royal Australian
Artillery in 1905 —the way in which
potential officers went into the Common-
wealth Forces before the Duntroon era.
He immediately filled-out, lost his
cadaverousness but not his corribativeness.
He was, throughout his career, active,
vigorous in thought and action, deter-
mined, self-sufficient, clear-thinking and
dogmatic—some thought too dogmatic.
He was one of the few officers who
throughout the vicissitudes and fullness
and discouragements of the peace-time
years after 1919 still wanted nothing
better than the Army as a career.
He enjoyed every minute of-it, though
promotion was slow, the pay a disgrace
and the prospects seemingly nil, especially
since a tradition had grown up among
politicians that all regular officers were
blimps—despite the contributions of such
men as Lavarack himself and Wynter,
from whose writings some men who
favored citizen officer-leadership in crisis
“went and took what they required” and
used as their own.
By 1939 Lavarack had held almost every
high position in the Army that*it was
possible for him to hold, though he had
slipped back in rank after the war, and
it had taken him more than a decade to
catch up with his war-time brevets, even
though in his temporary seniority he
had won a C.M.G., D. 5.0., C. de G. and
several “mentions.”
For the four years before World
War II he was Chief of the General Staff,
but was passed over for the command
of the Sixth Division, Second A.1.F., and
was given Southern Command with pro-
motion to Lieutenant-General.
From that rank he dropped back the
following year to take away the Seventh
Division and write his name into history.
It will always be associated with
Tobruk, though he fought the Syrian cam-
paign—he was the dominating influence
in shaping its plan—and was the historic
commander of 1 Australian Corps in the
period when the disasters of Greece and
Crete were to some extent retrieved and
during the return-home period via Java,
during which his mind was clearer than
most, his thinking more decisive, and
his morale more resistant than that of
some leaders to the screaming of a
panic-stricken press and politicians who
expected the Japanese any moment in
Canberra.
He might be called the father of
Tobruk. It was to him that Wavell issued
his scrawled order of April 8, 1941: “You
will take over command of all troops in
Cyrenaica Your main task will be
to hold the enemy’s advance at Tobruk
..for about two months.” He remained
there only till after the Easter battle, but
during that time established the perimeter
round the bleak and featureless place, and
also established the fact that a deter-
mined force of Australians without-air-
cover could defeat Stukas, German
armor, the cunning of Rommel and, in
fact, everything that had hitherto seemed
to make it scarcely worth while to resist
Hitler’s might, which always won.
In doing so he also laid the foundation
for the first defeat of the Germans on
land, building the pattern—which his
successor, General Morshead, intensified
—for fighting back with what Wavell
called in his congratulatory order of the
day “stem determination, prompt action
and close co-operation by all arms” of
which “everyone can feel justly .proud.”
Wavell was “most grateful for your in-
valuable services in stabilising the situa-
tion in Cyrenaica,” and so the world had
reason to be.
Of Lavarack’s part in events following
the Japanese invasion and as G.O.C. First
Australian Army, the story has yet to be
adequately written. The Australian War
History volume on the Japanese thrust
scarcely brings it out clearly in respect
of the chaotic position in early 1942,
when the only popular counsels in Can-
berra were those of despair. Neither
have his great services at Washington as
head of the Australian Military Mission,
1944-46, been adequately described.
Chester Wilmofis summing-up of him
as “one of the greatest military brains
Australia has produced” understated his
capacity, for he was, in addition, one of
the most aggressive fighting officers and
one of the most determined.
His career was a series of disappoint-
ments, which he met with courage. They
were mainly due to his own deficiencies
of temperament, which made him apt to
lose control of his temper and to make it
plain at the wrong time how little he
suffered fools gladly. Moreover, he
usually picked the wrong fool when he
was moved to exhibit his feelings—some-
body a little too big for him politically
or in the service at the moment.
This, however, only emphasised his
greatness, for he never-considered his own
interests in disagreement. And he wore
himself oht in the service of the Com-
monwealth. The Lavarack who came
back from Washington after the war to
become the first Queensland-born Gover-
nor of his native State was not the flashing
“Joe” of 1939. •


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. F.gerton,
Manager for Australia.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
■ The £2OOO Villiers will high-
light next Saturday’s Randwick
meeting, and there’ll be a smart
field of milers in the line-up
Raconteur’s 1.35 i in 1953 is
best time for this race. N.
Sellwood (Empire Link and
Raconteur), G. Podmore (Lazy
Day and Mercury), J.
Thompson (Filipino and Barn-
sley), and W. Cook (Carioca
and Riverton) are riders still
in the saddle who have had two
Villiers wins. Ted Bartle rode
four —Rimveil, King’s Head,
Closing Time and Pavilion.
King’s Head was raced by
Tulloch’s owner, E. A. Haley.
For the Villiers: Indian
Empire, 1 ; Yes Please, 2 ;
Flames, 3.
Presence at Canterbury
Park on Saturday of the over-
seas jockeys helped attract an
attendance of 23,500; S.T.C.
officials expected a larger
crowd.
The International Stakes
went to Levardo, one of the
outsiders. He had, however,
shown a partiality for Canter-
bury, but he hadn’t previously
scored at 9\ furlongs. Capably
handled by the French jockey,
Maxime Garcia, he was never
worse than third, and had an
easy win. . His time, 1.59.6,
was close to the track record.
Another outsider, Beaco,
ridden by P. Alafi (Hungary),
finished second, with Lord
Cortauld (W. Cook) third.
Visiting jockeys were also on
the fourth and fifth horses.
General impression at
Canterbury was that most of
the visiting riders appeared to
lack the finesse of the crack
Sydney jockeys. George
Moore’s three wins, in two of
which he had to ride a punch-
ing and quick-thinking finish,
must have impressed the over-
seas lads, and his clever front-
riding on the pacy New Spec
was also smart horsemanship.
His display on Keep Alert was
the real highlight of the meet-
ing. After a tardy start in the
First Ashbury Stakes the four-
year-old Port Vista horse was
still only eighth at the straight-
entrance. Moore rode him
hard, picking his way through
the leaders in the final half-
furlong, to win well.
New Spec, trained by Leo
O’Sullivan, has now been
placed at all 12 starts —seven
wins, three seconds, and two
thirds. Raced by Mrs. R. M.
Porter, he looks an ideal type
for such a race as the Carring-
ton Stakes at Randwick.
It was good to see a big
crowd at Caulfield last Satur-
day for the V.R.C.’s Bene-
volent Fund annual meeting.
Founded in 1941 by the late
Byron Moore, then V.R.C.
secretary, the fund aims to
help racing folk and their
families who have fallen on
hard times. Currently it costs
some £lO,OOO a year to do the
fund’s work, and this annual
meeting is the main source of
that money. On the day, even
members have to pay for
admittance, and it’s tp their
credit that last Saturday the
members’ reserve looked even
better patronised than usual.
Jim Shannon, son of V.R.C.
judge Stan, is present adminis-
trator of the Benevolent Fund.
With the exception of Lord
Gavin, who does represent
reasonable class, the field in
the Benevolent Fund Handicap
was scarcely above provincial
standard. Lord Gavin looked
well above himself in condi-
tion, but for want of a better
favorite punters ,„sent him out
first choice, and his class topk
him to within half a head of
victory, cut-down in the last
stride by Vernet, who had had
33 unsuccessful runs since his
previous win in the autumn of
1955.
It was suggested here a
couple of weeks ago, after
Altergo notched his first
success in the Barkoola Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley, that the
Empyrean colt might turn out
more than useful. He con-
firmed that promise when he
won the Second Acorn Stakes
at Caulfield, cutting out the
five furlongs in 59.8. Even
more impressive than the time
was the manner in which
Altergo ran down the
leaders after being forced to
make the turn five or six horses
wide. There is staying blood
in Altergo’s family, and he
may come back in the autumn
a strong opponent for the best
youngsters in the land. He is
by Empyrean from Brave Love
by Enfield from Lavendula by
Great Star from Mauve by
Mauvezin.
• • • •
Most extraordinary feature
of the racing at Caulfield was
Livorno’s record run in the 10-
furlongs Heath Handicap ; his
time, 2.1.6, equalling Empire
Link’s Australian record. In
his long career the aged son
of Red Mars has proved him-
self useful, but he has never
been rated a top-class galloper.
Now he joins the wonder
sprinter Aurie’s Star as the only
two aged horses to hold
Australian time records.
• • • t
Stan Bedchambers has had a
long and successful innings,
first as a jockey, later as a
trainer. After the racing at
Caulfield, he handed in his
licence ; he’s following the sun
to Queensland, where he has
built a block of flats. He will
have pleasant memories of his
last day as a trainer. He pre-
pared Lauriston Bey for that
gelding’s win in the first Acorn
Stakes. Lauriston Bey should
win more races for former
jockey Jim Kennedy, who now
takes charge of the gelding. The
gelding is raced by Melbourne
businessman T. W. Gunnersen,
who runs a small stud at Lily-
dale as a hobby.
• • •’ •
Hurdle form at this time of
the year can usually be dis-
counted, but Jack Jury, who
knows as much about preparing
jumpers as any man in the busi-
ness, has a National prospect
in the young hurdler Grey Nog.
By Davalomarne, the winner
has had only two or three starts
over the obstacles, but has
improved at each run; he
careered right away with the
Fund Hurdle.
• • •' •
The V.A.T.C. has added
£lOOO to the prizemoney for the
Oakleigh Plate, to be run at
Caulfield on February 15. It
will now be worth £4OOO, richest
sprint event of the Melbourne
autumn carnival. Traditionally,
the V.R.C.’s Newmarket is the
most important sprint event of
the carnival, but stakemoney
for that race remains at £3OOO.
The Newmarket will be run on
March 1, date of the Queen
Mother’s visit to Flemington.
• • •. •
Foxzami, winner of the 1949
Melbourne Cup and £19,000 in
stakes, sired Clover Fox, sur-
prise winner of the Albion Park
Maiden Handicap. Foxzami
should get useful staying types.
By Nizami (Fr.) from Honey-
wood by Foxbridge (imp.), he
raced against top three-year-
olds, including Comic Court,


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in h upland
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLING TON, N.Z.
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMA N I A.— ln Divorc k.
No. 149 of 19")7.
TO VICTOR NORRHRT FLANAGAN
(also known as VICTOR NORMAN
FLANAGAN) formerly of 7 McKenzie
Streep Melbourne in Victoria.—TAKE
NOTICE that a Petition has been filed
in this Court endorsed with a Notice
to you to appear and answer the charges
in. the Petition of GWENDOLINE MAY
FLANAGAN of 11 Montpelier Road
Battery Point Hobart in the State of
Tasmania Married Woman praying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion IN DEFAULT of jour so
appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved
and pronounce judgment therein your
absence notwithstanding AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within Thirty days after
the date of this publication an appearance
must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court, Mae-
quarie Street, Hobart, in the State of
Tasmania.—DATED the 29th day of
November, 1957.—H. R. DOBBIB,
Principal Registrar.
' Carbon Copy, Vagabond, Bern-
brook and Ungar. He finished
second to Comic Court in the
Victoria Derby and & close
third to Carbon Copy and
Vagabond in the A.J.C. classic.
In the Melbourne Cup he
defeated Hoyle and Benvolo.
• • • . •
Royal Dance, narrow winner
of Newcastle’s Juvenile Handi-
cap, is by an imported sire,
Royal Empire, from an im-
ported piare, Round Dance, a
daughter of Fun Fair and Con-
gress Dances by Concerto.
M. V. Point bred the filly at
Sledmere Stud, Scone (N.S.W.).
• • • •
Randwick trainer Bill Kelso
had a winner at the Newcastle
meeting—French Ann, who
easily won the Maiden Mile.
A three-year-old filly, she is by
Tsaoko (Fr.) from Ann Bridge
(a winner in New Zealand) by
Foxbridge (imp.) from Sally
Ann by Salmagundi (imp.).
An added lure at Randwick
next Saturday will be the jack-
pot tote.. The A.J.C. will select
the five jackpot races at accept-
ance time on Thursday, after
which punters will get form-
guides into action and do their
“homework.” A preview is due
at Randwick this afternoon
(Wednesday).
* * *
The 50-to-l shot Romany
Raider landed the First Quali-
fying Stakes at Harold Park
Trots on Friday night from
Rotary Queen (another long
shot at 4G’s-50's), the pair show-
ing a record quinella for the
Park, £463 1 Is. 3d. Two sailors
from the U.S. vessel Pioneer
Isle held four of the seven
tickets. They “just liked those
horses’ names.”
In the Harold Park Handicap
(this time of 15! furlongs) First
Variety scored another
convincing win, downing
Defiance and Anytime. Van
Hall (fourth) locked wheels
with the breaking Highland Jan
at the start and lost considerable
ground. Attendance topped
18,000.
4- +
Sporting Dragnet
Once more it will be Australia
and U.S.A. in the Davis Cup
challenge-round, as it has been every
year since 1938 (no competition,
1940-45). In 1937 U.S.A. beat Great
Britain 4-1 at Wimbledon, the last
year anyone else has been in it. This
year it was almost but not quite
Belgium; 3-2 to U.S.A., with Flam
a bit lucky to beat Brichant in the
first singles.
The final of the 1956 Victorian
tennis singles-title was fought ..out
between the then two top Australian
amateurs, Hoad and Rosewall, With
the No. 2, Rosewall, winning in five
sets. This year’s Victorian final was
also contested by the present two top
amateurs, Cooper and Anderson,
with Anderson (lately considered
No. 2, though he now has strong
claims for NoT rating), winning 6-4,
10-8, 1-6, 7-5. Anderson has now
defeated Cooper the last three times
they have met —the others being in
the U.S. final and in an S.A. semi-
final. (Neale Fraser, incidentally,
eliminated Anderson in semi-finals
in both the Queensland and N.S.W.
titles.)
The Victorian doubles was won,
as expected, by Rose and Anderson,
who comfortably defeated Mark and
Emerson 8-6, 6-4, 7-5. The two
semi-finals of the doubles were both
interesting matches: in particular
the marathon in which Mark and
Emerson unexpectedly toppled
Cooper and Fraser, the second set
going to 19-17. In the other, Rose-
Anderson beat Howe and Laver.
In the Victorian women’s singles-
final Victoria’s Lorraine Coghlan
beat English lass Angela Mortimer
7-5, 7-&. The pair have met in
each of the four State finals this
year, for two wins each. The girls’
final was won easily by promising
N.S.W. country girl Jan Lehane.
In a three-day match the touring
Australian cricketers cleaned-up the
weak Eastern Province by an innings
and 81 runs. Benaud bowled very
well in each innings—5-45 and 5-44.
Then they went to beautiful NeW-
lands ground, at Cape Town, where
they fronted the much stronger
Western Province. The Australians’
next big match- is the first Test,
which starts on Monday.
The Australian Rugby Union
Wallabies had two tough games in
Wales last week. In mud and rain
they defeated Llanelly 9-5, after
bailing 0-5 at lemons. The
Wallabies dominated the second
half; Lenehan opened their account
with a penalty, after which he scored
what some spectators described as
the most remarkable try they had
ever seen. Phelps got the ball behind
his own line, ran 60yds. and gave it
on to Lenehan, who did the rest.
Half-back Logan later also crossed.
(Lenehan’s original selection for the
tour was questioned by some, but he
has since amply confirmed the
selectors’ wisdom.) In the second
game, on Saturday, they were beaten
but not disgraced by redoubtable
Cardiff, toppler of more than one
touring side, including the 1953-54
All Blacks. It was 14-11 at the
bell, with Cardiff scoring three tries
to two.
One or two fights: In Wellington
(N.Z.) Samoan Tuna Scanlan won
the N.Z. middleweight title, flooring
Billy Beazley, of Wellington, in the
third round. In Adelaide, only 10
days after defending his title in
Perth against Steve Zoranich, Aus-
tralian heavyweight champion Allen
Williams again retained it, stopping
S A. challenger Peter Lake in the
12th round. In Sydney, in a
gruelling, punishing fight over 12
rounds, Mexican lightweight Sapo
Or(e g a outpointed Australian
featherweight champion Bobby Sinn.
One or two athletic results: At a
twilight meet in Melbourne
(Thursday, Dec. 12) Czech runner
Stanislav Jungwirth came third
behind Victorians John Murray and
Doug Henderson in a 1000-metres
race; on the Sunday, in Sydney,
Jungwirth won a mile race in the
slow time of 4min. 12.25ec., with
Albert Thomas, who set a new Aus-
tralian three-mile record the previous
Sunday, second; in a Sydney inter-
club race, Marlene Matthews ran
23.95ec. for the 220yds., equalling
Betty Cuthbert’s N.S.W. and
Australian record. „
* * *
“Full-forward”: Continuing
the long-standing attempt to
find a crisp and descriptive
name for Australian football
(some name equivalent to
Rugby and Soccer), Bruce
Andrew, secretary of the Aus-
tralian National Football
Council, has plumped for “Aus-
tralian Footv,” to be shortened
in time to “Footy.” But surely
“Footy” is a bit childish. I can’t
imagine Andrew's bosses, for
example, calling themselves the
National Footy Council. Still,
I sympathise with him in the
matter, for I personally have
failed in every attempt I’ve
made to come up with a decent
name for the national game.
Can any Bulletin reader do
better than “Footy,” and, of
course, better than Rules, the
term which less-enlightened
States apply to the code?
* * *
After bowling well but with-
out reward against W.A. this
season, South Australian stocky
left-arm spin-bowler Jack
Wilson has now retired. An
expatriate Victorian, he was one
of the mainstays of the S.A.
attack for several years, having
most success in association
with Geoff Noblet and anothef
left-hander, Jack Manning, now
playing in England. (In 1952-
53, with the three doing a full
share, S.A. won the Shield.)
Wilson went to England in the
1956 team, but did not do par-
ticularly well ; his best effort
was 7-11 and 5-50 in Australia's
innings win over Gloucester-
shire. He played in one Test
against India coming home.
Wilson had to overcome a
severe injury to his left arm,
suffered when playing football
as a lad, which threatened to
prevent his playing cricket
at all.
“Atala”: The star of the
recent S.A. schoolboys' cricket
championship was 13-year-old
Dean Collins, son of the S.A.
Sheffield Shield opening-bowler
of the ’thirties, F. H. Collins.
Captaining the winning team,
South-east, he in one game
clean-bowled five batsmen with
five successive balls. In three
matches he took 16 wickets, av.
4.8, and made 214 runs (includ-
ing 103 retired) at an average of
71.3.
The two pace - bowlers
(Edwards 6-18, Salmon 4-34)
who dismissed Queensland for
65 in the first innings of the
Shield game in Melbourne last
Friday did not get a wicket
between them in Victoria's only
other Shield game this season.
Salmon, in particular, was
thought to be lucky to have
held his place against Queens-
land. The lowest Shield total
ever is S.A.’s 27 against
N.S.W. in Sydney in November,
1955, when the destroyers (on a
good pitch it was, too) were
Miller, 7-12, and Crawford,
3-14.


Wst
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN,
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS,
JOHN WALKER l SONS LTD.
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
JOHNNIE
WALKER
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.. SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.lB4.ia
away from the Sydney sand-
stone were commendably per-
sistent. They booked another
passage for the “fedder,” and
even got him on board the ship
this time. When the moorings
were thrown off at Woolloo-
mooloo Bay, Griffo scanned the
crowded faces on the wharf,
and his heart somersaulted.
There they all were, his old
pals and donahs, and all at
once America lost most of its
rosy glow. He hesitated until
the departing stern sidled into
the wharf, and jumped over
the rail.
The emigration committee
ground its collective teeth, but
Griffo, according to an. eye-
witness, was capering about
with delight.
“No more o’ dem Yankee
boats for me,” he told every-
body. “Sydney’s good enough
for all I want.”
While his baggage sailed
down-harbor, he shook hands
over and over again with the
small army who had come to
farewell him. If looked as if
he had just returned home after
years of exile. He was
welcomed back to the Rocks
with noisy and alcoholic
acclaim.
TTN that year, 1892, he fought
a draw with Jim Barron over
22 rounds and with Martin
Denny over 25. They were
heavier men; Barron was a
capable welterweight who could
upset anybody with his punch-
ing.
In these contests, Griffo
exhibited for the last time in
this country his miraculous
blend of attack and defence.
There was nothing left to con-
quer, but he found an
Alexander willing to sigh for
new worlds on his behalf.
This was Ted Alexander,
who had a reputation in the
States as an import-agent in
quality goods. Amongst others,
he had taken George Dawson
and Jim Barron across —they
both made a hit with the
American public.
Alexander came back with
Barron in the Monowai with
the express object of capturing
Griffo alive. He poured in all
his persuasion. The entire con-
tinent, by his account, was
thirsting to see Griffo’s cata-
logue of tricks. In any event,
he added, he and Barron were
hurrying back to the joyous
pastime of harvesting dollars
by the bushel. Griffo saw the
light.
“It’s a deal —I’ll come along,”
he said.
Alexander bolted away to
contract for passages in the
Alameda.
It was different this time.
Griffo's farewell squad once
more overflowed the wharf. He
waved innumerable goodbyes,
leaned over the rail and bawled,
“Don’t worry—l’ll be back
agen! ” A sympathetic din
answered him. The Alameda
swung clear, the space widened
and the stunned Sydneysiders
slowly realised that he was gone
for keeps. He never came back.
Alexander remembers that
Griffo found his feet very
quickly. He was popular with
the passengers; nearly every
night he let them see him spar-
ring with members of the crew.
At Honolulu he dazzled a pop-
eyed crowd, putting on a fire-
work-display of punching with
Sam Maxwell and one of the
ship’s seamen.
The skipper, Captain Morse,
was slightly crazy about box-
ing, and gave Griffo the run of
the ship. Alexander asserts that
Griffo would be found one
minute in the stokehold, frater-
nising with the firemen ; next,
he would be in the captain’s
cabin, shedding coal-dust over
the plush cushions and showing-
the skipper the rudiments of
throwing and blocking left-
hand jabs.
Actually, Griffo was far
from happy when they drew
down on San Francisco,
particularly as the Golden Gate
was hiding behind hostile fog.
Low in spirit, he brightened
when a selected team of Van
Loan’s “sportsmen and sports”
clustered around to shake his
hand. In the background was
a sizeable crowd of unknowns,
competing for a mere glimpse
of him. His ego livened up
appreciably.
When it was revealed that
’Frisco carried a healthy growth
of saloons to the acre, and that
the Yankees were falling over
each other to buy drinks for
him, his mood melted into
happy approval.
A LEXANDER knew Griffo’s
tastes too well to leave him
browsing in the metropolis.
He lost no time in whisking
him out to Barney Farley’s,
some distance from the city
itself, while he settled on a plan
of campaign.
A certain amount of think-
ing was necessary, because
public boxing was suspended in
California, following the death
of the fighter Miller after a
savage encounter with Dal
Hawkins.
Still, there was nothing to
prevent Griffo from showing
his graces in private, and a
friend from the Alameda,
wealthy Howell Osborne, sub-
sidised a closed-doors set-to
with Eddie Graney, a Cali-
fornian who later on flourished
as a big-time referee.
Those who watched this
affair caught only exciting
suggestions of Griffo’s real
quality; he was several yards
out of Graney’s reach. Box-
ing at half-pace, he steered the
Californian around like a piece
of wheeled furniture. As a con-
solation for the spectators,
Barron and Griffo put on a
four-round exhibition.
While boxing was in eclipse,
there was no profit for fighters
on the West Coast, and
Alexander found his eyes turn-
ing towards Chicago. It had
not escaped his notice that in
those days the World’s Fair
was making the Windy City a
magnet for well-nourished
wallets.
The party climbed on the
train, and an old friend, Bass
Ale, became Griffo’s most
reliable travelling-companion.
Fie practically lived in the
dining-car, drinking all he
wanted and watching the
scenery drift by. After about
a day and a half he turned to
Alexander in innocent surprise.
“Blimey, Ted, it’s a big
country, this ’Frisco!”
(To be continued next week)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque / money-order f0r ......
months' subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION : If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greetings-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf.
SIGN CARD:
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KEITH COLIN BREEZE late of
Newtown in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
DOROTHY BREEZE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3624 of 1957 on
the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three (3) years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 24th day of February
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO., Soli-
citors, of 6a Penfold Place, Sydney.—
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
TO EDMUND MAZUR formerly of 71
Osmond Street Ilindmarsh in the State
of South Australia but now of address
unknown. —T AKE NOTICE that
JOHANNA MARIA KLARA MAZUR
has commenced Action No. 437/1956
against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia for dissolution of
Marriage on the ground of your
habitual failure for a period of three (3)
years immediately prior to the com-
mencement of this action to pay main-
tenance under an Order of a competent
Court, under which the parties have
been separated during such period If
you desire to defend the said action
you must within 40 clear days from the
date of publication of this notice file
your defence in the Central Office of the
Supreme Court at Perth IN default of
your so doing the case may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and
make orders against you in your absence.
DATED the 4th day of December, 1957.
—G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
P. L. SHARP, of 14 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitor for the above-
named Plaintiff.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy either new or used copy
of Ringstones, by Sarban.—664l.
Words of verse “Who keeps the
pub in Sydney now?” published in
The Bulletin about the turn of the
century. —6642.
To buy R. D. Fitz Gerald’s
Moonlight Acre (Melbourne, 1938);
J. C. Fitzpatrick's Those Were the
Days (1923); The Life of Captain
Matthew Flinders, R.N., by E.
Scott (Sydney, 1914); Sydney in
IS4B, by J. Fowles; History of
Queensland, Its People and
Industries, edited by M. J. Fox
(Brisbane, 1919-1923); W. W.
Froggatt’s Australian Inspcts; and
any titles by Arthur Upfield.—6643.
Words of poem “One Solitary
Life"; a poem concerned with the
crucifixion of Our Lord in which
numerous flowers are named (last
line reads: “Even the lily bowed its
head, it could not bear to see Christ
dead"); words of poem with the
first line “I asked my God for
strength that I may achieve great
things.”—6644.
Wanted, information, letters or
recollections, concerning Anthony
Trollope’s visits to Australia in 1871-
72 and 1875? (Write direct to G. F.
James, C/o Melbourne University
Press, Carlton, N. 3, Victoria.)
Information Sought
Brief biography of the late Sir
Prank Beaurepaire?
Born in Melbourne in 1891, he
began winning Victorian swimming-
titles at the age of 14, and when
under 17 won in the one season the
Australian mile, 880yds. and 440yds.
titles. He represented Australia as
a swimmer at three Olympic Games
(3908, 1920 and 1924). Between
1906 and 1928 he held 14 swimming
world-records, and in his career he
won more than 200 championships.
He served in the A.I.F. in World
War I. In 1921, with another life-
saver, he swam out at Coogee
(N.S.W.) and rescued a surfer
attacked by a shark, for which he
received the Royal Humane Society’s
gold-medal. He founded the
Beaurepaire Tyre Service from
which grew the big Olympic Con-
solidated Industries, Ltd. Sir Frank
Beaurepaire was Lord Mayor of
Melbourne (1940-42), was knighted
in. 1942, and sat in the Vic. Legisla-
tive Council for 10 years (1942-52).
As chairman of the organising com-
mittee for the Games, he played a
leading part in securing the 1956
Olympic Games for Melbourne.
He was to have been re-elected
in August, 1956, Lord Mayor for the
Olympic year. In April, 1954, he
gave £200,000 to Melbourne Uni-
versity to promote sport and physical
education. After his death it was
learnt he had given £15,000 to build
athletic rooms at Albert Park (Vic.).
He died on May 29, 1956.
* * * *
(1) What are the ingredients of
cement in their proportions ? (2)
How is cement made ? (3) Is
gypsum mined in North Queensland,
card, if so, where?
(1) Portland-cement is made from
a mixture of materials of which
silica (22 per cent.) and lime (62 per
cent.) are the largest quantities;
other materials in the mixture may
be alumina, ferric-oxide, magnesia-
water and alkalis. Proportions vary;
above is an English formula. (2)
The materials are well mixed and
burnt at a high temperature in
rotatory cylinders, cooled, crushed
and bagged. The manufacturing
plant is a very large and complex
affair, involving the expenditure of
many thousands of pounds. A
description of all processes may be
consulted in an encyclopaedia: it
runs into many pages. (3) Mineral
discoveries in Queensland are taking
place so rapidly that the only
authentic and up-to-date information
is obtainable from the Under-
secretary, Mines Department,
Brisbane, to whom you should
write for particulars.
* * * *
Any aboriginal words for a sea-
gull, pelican, penguin, or any ether
water-bird which might make a good
name for a boat ?
Here are a few suggestions:
Barratta, white or black shag;
Boorowa, fish-hawks; Bunabaroo,
blue crane; Damala, white-breasted
sea-eagle; Kalkaru, Berrimbilla,
kingfisher; Kalliworra, Tarooki, sea-
gull; Karlo, Malbaru, crane;
Malura, Moora, Muloora, shag or
cormorant; Nirringa, Tangara,
Wanika, Wirea, Wirriga, Yeltu,
pelican; Paili, sea-eagle; Tulturi,
fairy-penguin; Yind a 1 a, little
penguin; Y olde, black shag.
m * * •
What were the results (and best
individual performances ) in the
Tests between England and South
Africa in South Africa last summer ?
The series was drawn, each side
winning two Tests. First Test
(Johannesburg, Dec. 24-29, 1956),
won by England by 131 runs —
England, 268 .(Richardson 117,
Cowdrey 59; Adcock 4-36) and 150;
S.A., 215 and 72 (Bailey 5-20).
Second Test (Cape Town, Jan. 1-5,
1957), won by England by 312 runs
—England, 369 (Cowdrey 101, Evans
62, Compton 58 ; Tayfield 5-130) and
6-220, dec. (Compton 64, Cowdrey
61); S.A., 205 (Wardle 5-53) and 72
(Wardle 7-36). Third Test (Durban,
Jan. 25-30), drawn —England 218
(Bailey 80, Richardson 68; Adcock
4-39) and 254 (Insole 110 not-out;
Tayfield 8-69); S.A., 283 (McLean
100, Goddard 69; Wardle 5-61) and
6-142. Fourth Test (Johannesburg,
Feb. 15-20), won by S.A. by 17 runs
—S.A., 340 (McLean 93, Goddard
67, Waite 61) and 142; England,
251 (May 61; Tayfield 4-79) and 214
(Insole 68, Cowdrey 55; Tayfield
9-113). Fifth Test (Port Elizabeth,
Mar. 1-6), won by S.A. by 58 runs
—S.A., 164 (Endean 70) and 134
(Tyson 6-40); England, 110 (Adcock
4-20, Heine 4-22) and 130 (Tayfield
6-78).
* * * *
(1) Some information on Robert
Blatchford the Socialist? (2) Was
he ever a member of a British
Parliament? (3) Did he die an
agnostic and freethinker ?
(1) Born at Maidstone (Eng.) on
Mar. 17, 1851, the son of an unsuc-
cessful actor who died when he was
only two, Blatchford spent his early
years in straitened circumstances.
With little formal schooling, he had
several odd-jobs before joining the
Army (Dublin Fusiliers) in 1871; he
remained in uniform for six years
and rose to sergeant. In 1885 he
began work for the newspaper-
proprietor Edward Hulton, writing a
column for his paper “Bell’s Life,”
and then, from 1887 to 1891, on his
“Sunday Chronicle,” writing mainly
under the pen-name “Nunquam.”
In 1891 he, his brother Montague
and several others founded the
famous “Clarion,” and, still using
“Nunquam,” he wrote for it many
articles of a Socialistic and agnostic
character, in simple language and
with a genial humor, which did
much to popularise Socialism among
British working people. He also
wrote several books, of which the
most famous are Merrie England,
published 1894 (the “Manchester
Guardian” once wrote that for every
convert to Socialism made by Das
Kapital Merrie England had made
100) and God and My Neighbor
(1903). Margaret Cole, in Makers
o] the Labor Movement (1948), says
“In a day when most people thought
that Socialism ought to mean
conscientious study of difficult docu-
ments, or cunning wire-pulling on
town-councils, or, at most, grave
and passionate denunciation of
social evils, Blatchford and his
Clarionettes thought it ought also
to be fun, to mix color with life as
well as indignation.... He never
attained to Cobbett’s mastery of
English; his verse is mostly
doggerel, his. taste is not impeccable,
and he is capable of [literary]
atrocities; but at his best he was
in the front rank of living writers of
English prose.” He died in 1944.
(2) He was never in Parliament.
(3) Everyman s Encyclopaedia states
that “the death of his wife led him
to acceptance of the belief in
spiritualism.”
* * • •
Brief information on Bulletin
artists Les Such, Unk White and
A ngus McGregor ?
(1) Les Such was born in London
on Oct. 7, 1902. He had his first
drawing in The Bulletin in 1929.
He was for a time a canecutter in
North Queensland (he has written
Bulletin articles on his canecutting
experiences), and he served as a


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIREj
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World,
Warwick
PRESBYTERIAN
Schools
Rolls Now
Open for
BOARDERS for 1958
THE SCOTS COLLEGE
At the SCOTS COLLEGE,
boys from 6 years of age up
to University Matriculation
enrolled. Full schooling in
Academic, Commercial,
Manual Training Courses.
Principal:
Mr. A. W. Briggs, B.A.
PRESBYTERIAN GIRLS’ COLLEGE
At the PRESBYTERIAN
GIRLS’ COLLEGE,
thorough education from
Preparatory Grade to
University Matriculation,
Full Academic, Commercial,
Domestic Science Courses.
Joint Principals:
Mrs. B. Crombie, B.Sc.,
Mrs. H. Green, M.A.
First Term commences: 28th January, 1958
Fees for Senior Boarders for 1958: £BB per term.
WRITE TODAY FOR PROSPECTUS TO:
The Principal
The Scots Colleob
WARWICK, Q’LD.
The Joint Principals
The. Presbyterian Girls'
CoIIege,WARWICK,QLD.
gunner in the 2nd A.I.F. (2) Unk
White, a New Zealander
(born Feb. 3, 1900), studied at the
Elam School of Art, Auckland, and
had his first drawing in The
Bulletin in 1928. He was an
accredited war-artist in World War
11. (3) Angus McGregor was born
in Perth (W.A.) on Nov. 22, 1913,
and had his first Bulletin accept-
ance in 1938. Some of his work
(and also Unk White’s) was shown
at the exhibition of Bulletin art in
Perth, mentioned in “The Art of
History” (B. 27/11 /’57).
• * * *
Can scratches on the windscreen
of a car caused by a windscreen-
wiper be removed?
Practically impossible. The
scratches are not superficial marks
but channels cut in the glass, which
cannot be refaced. If very bad, a
new windscreen is suggested, when
the wiper-arms should be faced with
some non-scratching protection such
as rubber.
* * * *
(1) Remedy for a galvanisecl-iron
tank (now leaking) which has sagged
in centre of bottom, owing to defec-
tive stand ? (2) What, in simple
language, is humidity? (3 ) Does 100
per cent, humidity mean that rain
would fall?
(1) If badly damaged, a new
bottom soldered in is the safest
lemedy. A layer of a few inches
cf cement is often used, or the tank
can be bedded in cement on the
stand with a coating of a bitumastic
paint on the outside bottom of the
tank. The tank-stand should be
well-closed-in of close, strong
timbers, or made of a brick wall
filled with rubble and topped with
cement. All tank repairs are apt
to be unreliable, and if the sole
source of water-supply nothing but
new strong containers can be trusted.
(2) and (3) As the word implies,
humidity is the aqueous vapor in the
atmosphere, sucked up by the air
from various sources. At 100 per
cent., rain does not necessarily fall
unless the globules of water become
coalesced and so heavy that they
cannot remain in suspension; but
humidity is usually dispersed before
this happens. Absolute humidity is
the amount of vapor actually present
in the air; relative humidity is 9f
greater importance and is the ratio
of vapor actually present as com-
pared with the greatest amount the
air can contain at a given tempera-
ture, Tho subject is so wrapped-up
in questions of fog, mist, air-
currents and other aspects of
weather that it is impossible to
explain it fully here. Meteorology
is the science under which it may
be studied.
Brief Answers
Timothy W.: Would you please
forward your address and your
ciaim will be attended to pronto.
A.M.K.: The word is right, but
your spelling was wrong. “Idyllic”
it should be; meaning, "pleasing or
picturesque in its natural simplicity”
or “of the nature of an idyll” (which
is a verse or poem of rural or
pastoral life, or, by extension, a
prose-description of a country
scene) J.P.: Lustration is a
“purificatory ceremony, performed
as a preliminary to entering a holy
place, as a means of removing
bioodguiltiness, on the occasion of a
birth, marriage or death, or as a
means of ceremonially cleansing a
house, a city, army or a whole
people on some special occasion”
{Webster’s)... .E.W.0.: The S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize is no longer
awarded... .C.W.W.-A.: Write
South African Soldiers’ Association,
8 Spring Street, Sydney, which will
probably be able to help R.H.:
Write Wilh Wilhelmsen Agency Pty.,-
Ltd., 51 William Street, Melbourne.
... .C.H.R.: You are certainly look-
ing after us as regards Bucephalus.
Thanks again, and your second piece
of information also passed 0n....
J.H.T.T.: Yes, the provision for
piant-depreciation in the case cited
can be applied in writing-down other
assets subject to depreciation
MJ.S.: See article “The Doll and
the Umbrella,” by Jill Lyons (B.
6/11/ ’57) —copy has been posted.
. ...P.8.: See "East Gippsland
Pioneers,” by Mary H. Walker (B.
28 /12 / ’55) —copy also posted....
H. (1) The address of the
Rationalist Association of N.S.W. is
256 Crown Street, Darlinghurst. (2)
The Rationalist Association of Aus-
tralia’s address is Temple Court, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne
P.H.P.: (1) Thp contract for the
construction of the original Hawkes-
bury River Bridge (N.S.W.) was
given to the Union Bridge Co. of
New York in May, 1886. The
bridge was opened to traffic on May
I, 1889. (2) The caissons were sunk
by Anderson and Barr, also of New
York, who were sub-contractors for
the Union Bridge Co. (3) The
N.S.W. Secretary for Railways states
that there is no record of a court-
case arising out of the construction
of the caissons Old-timer
(Napier, N.Z.): Thanks for the bit
of information on Donald Dinnie
just to hand, but oor Donal’ was
given a pretty thorough doing-over
inß.6/11/’57 S.A.: The Queens-
land Director-General of Education
states that any student who has
qualified for secondary education in
N.S.W. will be admitted to any
State secondary-school in Queens-
land without payment of fees. To
qualify for the scholarship-allow-
ance of £lB a year towards tuition-
fees at a non-State school, the
student would have to secure a pass
in the Queensland State scholarship-
examination taken at the end of the
Grade VIII year.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.K.: Your “swirling strata of
upper-class society’’ swirled 0ut....
N.L.: Genuine, if slight 8.N.F.:
A rough collection of cliches, over-
garnished with adjectives... .H.H.:
So the moon “glides pompously
across the ballroom-floor of night”?
[Stories; feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. _ Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
. ...R.K.N.: “Garbage” 0ut....
W.M.: Make verse shorter and
keep to the point K.R.: “I
socked the ball beyond the
boundary.” We did likewise with
the story... .A.1.W.: Thinner than
tissue-paper F.C.: Liked Agatha
Gumleaf, but the others!... .J.S.S.:
A touch or two in the last stanza.
. ...M.M.: Try setting your stories
locally... .D.H.: “The Putty-seller”
501 d... .D.P.S.: Stevenson was there
before y0u....P,T.: Plods along
like a weary draught-horse....
N.R.: Not quite 8.E.: Verse
must walk before it runs.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRANCE AND TUNISIA
/COMMENTING on the
British-American shipment
of arms to Tunisia —“whose
political leaders make no secret
of their wholehearted support
for the Algerian rebels against
whom France is at war”
(London “Daily Telegraph”)—
Andre Frangois-Poncet, in the
conservative “Le Figaro,” sums
up French feelings:
“This action is not only
unfriendly, it is shocking, it is
humiliating, it is incompatible
with the minimum of respect
due to a country which is
supposed to be an ally. We
have all the more a right to be
hurt that this has taken place
when the absence of solidarity
in the mutual relations of the
members of the Atlantic pact
is being deplored. In this
gesture is found again the
mark of the bluntness which
Mr. Foster Dulles seems more
and more inclined to use,
while he reserves his smiles
for our opponents.”
Rather less critical of Britain
and the U.S., the independent
“Le Monde” points out, how-
ever, that “if the United States
and Britain, after France,
refuse to furnish arms to
Tunisia, the Eastern bloc will
do it, either directly or through
Egypt. Is it in our [France’s]
interest to push Tunisia into
the arms of Khrushchev or
Colonel Nasser? Yet we have
hardly any choices between
these alternatives, unless we
change our minds and there-
fore appear to accept a capitu-
lation imposed by Washington
and London.
“In short, we have been so
smart that we are pretty sure
to lose on all counts. Once
again one may blame those
who are responsible for the
policy which brought us where
we. are.”
Across the Channel, London
“Daily Telegraph” notes that
“The official excuse is that since
France herself refused to
supply Tunisia with the arms
she sought, except on unaccept-
able terms, the oniy way for
the West to prevent President
Bourguiba [of Tunisia] from
turning to Russia was for
Britain and the United States
to make this tiny concession to
his demands.
“For some months the British
and Americans have been
urging the French to supply
the arms themselves. M.
Bourges-Maunoury fell partly
because he was suspected of
being likely to respond. M.
Gaillard, the new Prime
Minister after a long interreg-
num, was suspected by Britain
and America of being unlikely
to do so. They apparently
London “Daily Express”
ARMS RACE
reached the conclusion —hotly
denied by the French —that
Tunisia’s patience was running
out and that if no decision was
taken her leaders would turn
elsewhere.
“In other words, Britain and
the United States believed that
the goodwill of the Tunisians
is more important than the
goodwill of the French.
Furthermore, they concluded
that the French, by attempting
to deny the Tunisians a legiti-
mate demand, were endanger-
ing their own best interests by
making an enemy of a North
African country that is at least
showing some signs of friendli-
ness to France in particular
and to the West in general.
These seem very arbitrary and
reckless deductions to draw
about a French Government
which has been barely a week
in office, and about a Tunisian
President who has just ful-
somely accepted a gift of arms
from the Egypt of Colonel
Nasser.”
Commenting later, the
“D.T.” adds that “the faults
are not only on one side”:
“Hitherto France has shown
scant concern for her allies’
interests either in North Africa
itself or in Western Europe,
whose defences have been sub-
stantially weakened by the
withdrawal of French troops
to Algeria. This high-handed
attitude has been ill-advised in
the extreme. The sale of arms
to Tunisia will surely have
rubbed this in. Equally the
fierce reactions in France to
this move should have empha-
sised in London and Washing-
ton the dangers of ‘going it
alone’ without the French.
Learning from both these
lessons, could not all parties
agree that Algeria is a common
problem vitally affecting the
whole Nato alliance—a prob-
lem on which the French could
themselves receive sympa-
thetically the advice of their
partners?”
Nato
British and U.S. press-com-
ment on the strains and stresses
in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation :
London “Daily Mail’’: “That
organisation [Nato], never
really at full establishment or
efficiency, is today at sixes and
sevens. It suffered a severe
blow earlier this year when
the British Government
announced the impending with-
drawal of 35,000 troops from
Germany.
“It was shaken to the core
by the sudden statement from
Mr. Dulles that the U.S.
intended to stockpile nuclear
missiles in Europe. At once
the nations affected had fear-
ful visions of being involved in
nuclear war not knowing
whether they would be able to
fire the missiles without per-
mission from Washington.
“The third event which has
knocked Nato sideways is the
.war in Algeria. This has been
going on for three years with
little reproach from the friends
of France. But the French
attitude towards Tunisian arms
has turned the limelight full on
to this long struggle which is
costing France up to £2 million
a day.
“Algeria is sapping her
strength and also that of the
Western alliance. With 600,000
soldiers employed in North
Africa, the French contribution
to Nato scarcely exists.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post”: “The
doctrine of interdependence is
not some cunningly devised
scheme to place Europe under
American tutelage. It is an
answer to the pressing need to
mobilise the full resources of
the Western nations effectively
in the attempt to create secure
defences against any possible
attack. It is dictated not by any
arrogance on the part of the
United States but by the
actions of Soviet Russia. Far
from showing arrogance, the
American leaders acknowledge
that, immensely powerful as
their country is, it cannot stand
alone. The free nations must
co-operate if they are to be
safe.”
* * *
Dana Adams Schmidt in
“New York Times’’: “Quite
likely the Nato machine will
never be set in motion by any-
thing so simple as overt Soviet
attack. The elaborate structure
of Nato might be left standing
by idly while the Soviet directly
or indirectly undermined
Western power by political and
economical penetration of the
uncommitted areas of Asia and
Africa, outside the Nato area.
“Indeed, that is what is
happening in the Middle East,
the principal area of East-West
conflict. There United States
willingness to retaliate and


F<ulA in iFc
Future
By the end of this year Australia’s population
will be very close to the nine-and-three-quarter
million mark; approximately two million more
than it was ten years ago.
This is a human measure of the expansion
upon which we entered after the Second World
War. With the increase in our known resources—
as in the northern mineral discoveries, for instance
—it shows every sign of rising at a vigorous rate.
But I think we should put our numerical
growth in perspective of the world, where the net
increase in population now is forty-three million
a year.
My purpose in quoting these figures is to
bring out a point which I believe the past year
should have made very clear to us: that the true
development of any nation is to be found in the
minds of its people.
For material progress a steady increase in
numbers is essential; but without a spirit of faith
in ourselves the material and numerical gains may
be of little ultimate value.
It is well that we should understand what “a
spirit of faith” implies. It is not just a matter of
resolution —of saying “we can do it”—without
pressing on to the actual achievement of what, we
set ourselves to do.
Still less is it a matter of relying on the
country’s natural wealth, and telling ourselves that
this alone will carry us right through in prosperous
security.
Australia is so large, its potential so great,
and the pace of the modem world so swift, that
only the liveliest and most efficient effort on our
part will suffice for a lasting expansion.
It all gets back to the minds of men; to the
wise employment of brains, to teamwork and
co-ordination ,in the national work-force at
every level.
In a crowding world the challenge we face as
holders of a continent lies less, I believe, in numbers
than in our individual and total quality as a people.
Western military unity are all
very well, for the unlikely event
that the Soviet Union actually
tries to invade tfie Middle East.
But meanwhile the West is
being defeated in political and
economic realms, where it
has no unity.”
* * *
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “While principal
attention has thus far been
paid to underpinning Nato’s
military structure, not enough
attention has been given to its
political implications. It will be
more and more difficult to dis-
sociate the increasingly intimate
military relationship from a
political one. The inter-
mingling politico - military
interests of the Atlantic com-
munity point toward closer
political collaboration and
action. The difficulties, how-
ever, are formidable.
“In Algeria and Tunisia, for
example, the policies of France
do not coincide with those of
her Nato allies, and have even
caused another ‘crisis of confi-
dence’ in Nato. If French rela-
tions with the North Africans
present an insuperable barrier
to genuine political co-opera-
tion within Nato, so do some
American policies in the Far
East and those of other Nato
countries elsewhere. There are
no ready solutions at hand;
but it is not easy to see how
Nato can thrive under the new
military conditions without a
reinforcement of its political
structure.”
Gifts
Detroit (U.S.A.) “News,”
suggesting that “the [U.S.]
State Department functionary
recently reprimanded for
accepting an automobile from
King Saud of Saudi Arabia
could well feel himself a victim
of discrimination”:
“The blushing truth was not
long in coming out that his
boss, Secretary of State Dulles,
also had had gifts from the
same open-handed potentate.
“However, Mr. Dulles could
assuage any embarrassment felt
over this disclosure by reflecting
that he, too, was in good com-
pany. Dulles’s boss in turn has
been the un protesting bene-
ficiary of gifts from foreign
Governments and heads of
State.
“Among President Eisen-
hower’s recent acquisitions
from such forbidden sources
have been 2000 tulip bulbs
from Queen Juliana of the
Netherlands, 10 tons of teak-
wood from U Nu of Burma,
two bears, from Syngman Rhee
of South Korea, and a statue
from the Government of West
Germany.
“There was also, it may be
mentioned in an undertone, a
giftfrom King Saud. This was
a jewelled sword, since
presented by the President to
the Naval Academy at
Annapolis.”
Singapore
Two divergent views on
Singapore (both in letters to
London “Daily Telegraph”),
prompted by the “distinct mis-
givings” of “D.T.” writer John
Ridley, who prophesies “con-
stant trouble with the Chinese
students, who are well
organised, energetic, and more
than ready to sacrifice them-
selves,” and comments that “the
trade-unions are riddled with
Communism —between 250 and
300 strikes are called in a year,
many of them with absolute
irresponsibility. For these
reasons alone Singapore cannot
be thought of as highly reliable
on a long view.”
Sydney Warren: “Surely Mr.
John Ridley exaggerates the
political unsuitability of Singa-
pore as a British naval base.
He seems to think that the
population is already Com-
munist at heart and that the
Communist leaders have only
to choose their moment for
taking over.
“There is no evidence that
this is the case. The solid
Chinese traders who form the
bulk of the people of Singapore
have no wish to see their city
made an outpost of Peking.
“The danger of subversive
activities in schools and trade-
unions is obvious. But to sug-
gest that the students are ready
to revolt is to do less than
justice to the Chief Minister,
Mr. Lim Yew Hock, and the
success of his firm action.
“Recent news suggests that
the schools are in a far
healthier condition than they
were when Mr. Marshall’s
weak-kneed policy allowed
Communist agitators to turn
them into dens of thuggery and
intimidation.
“The People’s Action party,
which Mr. Ridley is convinced
could ‘sweep into power if it so
wished,’ has clearly been losing
ground. Singapore is being
better governed now than for
some years.”
* * *
N. E. Coad: “Does Britain
contemplate retiring from the
Pacific in the near future? That
at any rate is the interpreta-
tion placed by Australians and


nr.
£>
A
don't leave
UNCLE FRED
OUT ON A LIMB
SEND HIM A SUBSCRIPTION TO
AS A CHRISTMAS-GIFT FROM
THE FAMILY
Every family has its “Uncle Fred.” Very often he is
not a blood-relative but an old friend of the family
known affectionately by the children as “Uncle,” an
honorary title earned by his many kindnesses and
generosity. Hard to know how to repay him without
offending, for he is the traditional giver but no
“Uncle” would resent a subscription to “The Bulletin,”
the most diplomatic and welcome of gifts to any
mature man.
A gift to “Uncle Fred” has possibly never occurred to
you or the children, nor has a gift from you ever
occurred to him. A gift such as this would therefore
come as a complete surprise.
Our Subscriptions Department will sign, on your
behalf, a greetings-card announcing your gift-subscrip-
tion, and will dispatch it to arrive before Christmas.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
ELSEWHERE
IN THIS ISSUE
i)
w
•«
m*-.
TtiMt
New Zealanders on certain
recent events and conditions in
that area.
“The neglected condition of
strategically placed British
colonies —the Solomon Islands,
for instance —poses that ques-
tion. Then at the South-east
Asia, conference in Canberra
last March America emerged as
the protector of the South
Pacific in the event of a global
war, with the permission to use
Australian ports as bases in the
meantime. Also, America sent
her Secretary of State, Mr.
Dulles, to that conference, but
Britain did not send her
counterpart —a fact that was
noted in Australia.
“The apathy and ignorance
of people in this country
[Britain], where there is no
strong public opinion about
the Commonwealth, is still
another pointer.
“The spread of Communism
in Singapore, once called the
Gibraltar of the Pacific, in the
Federation of Malaya and in
Indonesia has placed dangerous
neighbors near the coasts of the
Southern Dominions. Behind
these Communists are the
hordes of China and those of
Soviet Russia.
“What other intepretation
can be put on these obvious
facts than the decline of Britain
in the South Pacific, wherein is
situated the most British part
of the Commonwealth?”
Competition and
Defence
Many heads are being aimed
at in the current American
inquest on Uncle Sam’s posi-
tion in the missile race, but
one general point made by
“New York Times” is worth
noting:
“The great industrial corpora-
tions that build our [U.S.]
planes, rockets and other
weapons conduct tremendous
amounts of research in the
course of their ordinary
development and design work.
Much of this research must, in
the nature of things, be useful
on more than one project and
to more than one company.
Yet if large areas of the results
of such research-results are
kept secret by individual com-
panies, then other aspects of
our defence effort are obviously
being impeded and there is
great loss of scientific man-
power in duplicating research.
“We do not expect a manu-
facturer of consumer goods to
turn over his technical findings
to another manufacturer. But
we have a right to expect that
all branches of the armed
forces and all companies work-
ing for those branches will
handle their research with the
understanding that they are
engaged in defending the
national security of all of us
and that they will share their
knowledge for this purpose.”
United Nations
The United Nations
Emergency Force in the Middle
East, comments Edinburgh
“Scotsman,” hqs so far been a
successful experiment, not
because of any small striking-
power it may have, but because
its presence “ensures that any
conflict at once involves the
United Nations.”
Just how much the U.N.
force has been responsible for
such quiet as has prevailed is
difficult to estimate, the “Scots-
man” adds, but “if one thinks of
the repeated Egyptian raids and
Israeli counter-raids which
occurred over the years, the
change is remarkable.
“The composition of the
force ensures that it is not the
instrument of any one Power
or bloc. But are the United
Nations willing to face up to
their responsibilities? The
members are reluctant to con-
tribute their share to its upkeep,
and some of those who are
willing to do so have made their
contributions dependent on
those of others.
“It is characteristic of
member-countries that they are
apt to give the U.N. too little
support in those fields where it
has been successful. The U.N.
Assembly is expected to make
proper provision to keep it in
being, and to adopt a method
of financing it, which would
ensure that an undue burden
was not laid on the countries
supplying contingents.
“Mr. Hammarskjoid has
already drawn attention to this
point, and suggested that these
countries should be reim-
bursed. This would con-
siderably increase the cost to
the United Nations. There
could be no greater test of its
collective sense of respon-
sibility. It is up to the Great
Powers to give the lead. Unless
this js done, it is not worth
while considering an extension
of the principle of an ad hoc
U.N. force to other troubled
areas. Such a force on the
Israel-Jordan border would
clearly be of use at the
moment.”
Also conceding that the U.N.
force has maintained the peace
with “conspicuous success,”


What do you mean
• •
1
4T y* 9° \
&f/ft
©
BELtS
»00\ SCOTCH WH«SK«JJ
P'SmtEO AND Bit#* 8
', IN SCOTIAN®
, IN SCOTIAN* *
D| STILLERS ">™ SCO
**OOuCT Of
**' CONTfNTJ- I*PT»"
by ‘Scotch 9 ?
There are many very good
Scotch Whiskies. But when
a connoisseur thinks of
‘Scotch’ he thinks of Bell’s
Old Scotch Whisky. Bell’s
are an old firm of independ-
ent distillers. Independent
to go on producing whisky
possessed of all the skill and
knowledge of generations.
Try some yourself. Savour
the smooth, elusive flavour
of a whisky carefully blend-
ed, well-matured. If you’re
a connoisseur Bell’s Old
Scotch. Whisky will delight
you.
100% SCOTCH WHISKIES
DISTILLED AND
BLENDED IN SCOTLAND
BELLS
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Arthur Bell <t: Sms Ltd.
Distil hr s, Perth, Scotland
Established ISSS
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
THERE WENT JUNIOR
New York “Herald Tribune”
comments that this body of
6000 men, originally from 10
States, costs about $25 million
year, “and although the Soviet
Union and some other States
believe this should be a charge
on Great Britain, France and
Israel, as the aggressors last
November, Secretary-General
Dag Hammarskjold, with his
accustomed grasp on the roots
of a question, has said that a
‘U.N. instrument’'should be a
‘U.N. obligation.’
“Unfortunately,* although 64
nations approved U.N.E.F.,
only half that number have
contributed, and not much
more than half the $lO million
appropriated initially has been
forthcoming.
“There have been additional
voluntary gifts, with the
United States matching
other gifts, but a large
deficit remains. The United
States has offered $12,000,000,
provided the other nations make
up the rest of the costs through
1958 on the regular U.N.
assessment scale (according to
this scale, the United States
pays 32.5 per cent., the U.S.S.R.
16 per cent., and so on down
the line).
“The American offer was
statesmanlike ; the U.N. must
see to it that U.N.E.F. remains
at its post. It is the first
necessity if a genuine peace is
to be achieved in the Middle
East ”
Besides the Middle East, the
“Herald Tribune” adds, there
are two other cases in which
U.N. should seek “concrete
results,” particularly 'since its
current preoccupation with dis-
armament is yielding little, if
any, result.
The first of these is Kashmir
and Jammu:
“The conflict between India
and Pakistan over these two
principalities was brought
before the U.N. at the very
beginning of 1948, springing
from troubles which arose after
British suzerainty ended in the
Indian subcontinent.
“The question has embittered
Pakistani-Indian relations and,
some Indians as well as many
non-Indians believe, vitiated
India’s stand for international
morality. Security Council and
General Assembly resolutions
on the subject have gone
unheeded.
“The project now under dis-
cussion in the U.N. is a simple
one —merely that Dr. Frank
Graham, already charged with
the Kashmir question under
U.N. auspices, visit the region
and use his good- offices in
another attempt to bring India
and Pakistan together on the
issue. It is difficult to see how
the U.N. can do less.”
The second case calling for
U.N. attention is, of course,
Korea:
“The Korean war was
actually fought under the U.N.
flag, resisting Communist
aggression. It is, therefore,
peculiarly a U.N. responsibility
to see to it that the arfnistice
provisions are obeyed. The
truce-supervision groups have
been unable to do so. As
Representative Walter H. Judd
told the General Assembly
Political Committee, the Com-
munist forces in North Korea
now number 35 divisions, half
of them Chinese, equipped
‘with the latest weapons of war,
including attack aircraft in
massive numbers.’
“Red China is the root of the
problem. Many U.N. members
have been urging Red China’s
inclusion in the international
organisation. But this effort
would be vfar better directed
toward impelling the Peking
regime to comply with obliga-
tions it voluntarily assumed in
the Korean Armistice.
“As Mr. Judd put it: ‘Until
Communist China purges itself
of its Korea aggression, which
it could begin to do by with-
drawing its occupying forces
from North Korea, we can
have little basis for hope for
solution of the Korean
question.’ ”
Various Voices
Mr. Khrushchev: “Hungry
men jiream of buns. The
capitalists want Soviet insta-
bility. Therefore *they talk,
aibout it.”
Nigel Birch, Economic Sec-
retary to the U.K. Treasury:
“If the free peoples are to be
protected, if they are not to
lose their place in the world,
their trade, their influence and
their prosperity, they must be
able to keep their end up in
the" cold war. As far as arma-
ments go in the cold war, it is
the conventional ones that
count. It is the ability to put
infantry where you want them
quickly that is likely to matter
most.”


KllV mom SAFE!
SANDERS
Correspondence, l n \
statements. etc.. filed
'Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted info
perfect book of reference
the end of each month
any other period.
* & 0
4$
Prt*H and fuf*
thcr information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
OntrihittlHg Agtmu —
MFLBOimNI
ADELAIDE
PERTH
hvrmmm Bro». Fty. LI4.
VtrdM PiU« Lt 4.
»•«**• u lAHU
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England )
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BE 43*7 <2 lines).
L. F. THORPE. MANAGER.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Public Transport in Sydney
So Ebasco has recommended
one-man buses only for Sydney.
This, of course, would be
inescapable on any figures the
N.S.W. Government Transport
Department would be likely to
supply. Perhaps the depart-
ment’s figures are supported by
American experience, but they
are certainly not supported by
experience in other Australian
cities where an attempt is made
to run public transport
efficiently.
It is only about two years
since a firm of industrial con-
sultants reported on public-
transport in Brisbane. They
recommended the continuance
of tramway operation and the
development of newer and
better tramcars for greater
efficiency and more passenger
appeal. All except 12
of Brisbane’s 200-or-so
buses are post-war
models, all are single-
deckers, and they are
mostly one - man
operated. Yet the
Auditor - General’s
report for 1955-56
showed that buses lost
13d. per mile, while
trams lost only 1-Jd. per mile.
If £BO,OOO properly chargeable
against loan money had not
been charged against revenue
the trams would have made a
small profit.
-The present position is that
trams in Brisbane cost little
more than half as much per
mile to run as in Sydney and
yet return more revenue per
mile, despite the considerably
lower fares. Of recent N.S.W.
Transport Ministers only Mr.
Martin has shown any interest
in this remarkable contrast, and
unfortunately he died before he
could do much about it.
Jt is strange how little notice
is taken of these reports. The
reaction of the Brisbane City
Council to the advice it paid
for was to cease building trams
of any description, and to take
its best caps off the road as far
as possible during the daytime
and replace them with older
and less attractive cars (only
about 20 years old, so they
would still be “new” in
Sydney). I wonder if Ebasco’s
report will fare any better. —
A. J. A. (Vic.).
Public Parks *
For Heaven’s sake don’t
make us pay to enter public
parks (B. 27/11 /’57)! Apart
from the fact that public
gardens and parks represent
about the one remaining
pleasure for which we are not
obliged to pay directly, a
charge to enter them would
be enclosure of the most
pernicious kind.
In spite of the increasing
costs of material and labor,
municipal ratings today have
risen' comparatively, even
higher, and should provide
municipal and shire engineers
with ample funds to provide
and /or maintain reserves,
streets and pavements without
Don't tell me you're full-up , Mrs. Clancy?"
further surcharges to the
public. The chronic trouble
with thef average municipal
council is that it spends too
much money around the
business-eentre to the virtual
neglect of outer residential and
recreational areas within the
district.—P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Cattle-king Legends
In a brief memoir written
before his death in 1942 my
Dad claimed that unless a
certain Ted Pender was still
alive he was the last survivor
of those who had worked for
both James Tyson and Sidney
Kidman. He had been on
Juinbong on the Lachlan in
1875 when “Scrammy-hand”
Tyson was managing for his
brother James. Twenty years
later, having spent the interven-
iing period chasing cattle on
.various watersheds from the
Lachlan to the Limmen, Dad
joined Sid Kidman as a cattle-
buyer.
His recollections of the two
men don’t always tally with the
accepted legends about them.
I never heard him accuse either
man of meanness, though he
had a dozen anecdotes to
emphasise that they both hated
waste - extravagance or
ostentation.
“Why do you travel second-
class on trains, Mr. Tyson?”
someone asked. “Because,”
replied old Jimmy, “there isn’t
any third.” Kidman, having
bought two draught-horses in
Barker’s saleyards in Adelaide,
tried to hire a couple of
urchins to lead them to the rail-
way trucking - yards. -The
youngsters stood out for half-a-
crown each, and Sid, after
remarking that he didn’t know
where he could get five shill-
ings so easily, led the mokes
down himself.
Dad always maintained that
Kidman's reputation for low
wages and starvation rations
was earned by some of his
understrappers who wanted to
prove what economical
Henrietta Drake-Brockman
One name omitted from the
list of Australian dramatists
who have helped to “lay step-
ping-stones” (B. 6/11/ ’57) was
that of Henrietta Drake-
Brockman.
This author won the £125
Commonwealth Sesquicenten-
ary prize for the best full-length
Australian play in 1938 with
“Men Without Wives.”
Immediately produced by the
Sydney Players, it was later
performed by leading clubs in
every Australian capital except
Hobart. It invariably brought
lull houses and financial
benefits to clubs.
Since then it has been done
as a radio play by the Mac-
quarie network in Australia
and New Zealand. - It has
also been three times published,
the last time in a collection by
the same author, which includes
her goldfields comedy
“Hot Gold,” performed at the
Capitol Theatre in Perth in
1940 and lately produced by
Leslie Rees for the A.B.C. and
several times repeated.
Henrietta Drake-Brockman
has also written some half-
dozen one-act plays, all
produced and published, some
many times. “The Blister”
represents Australia in the 1940
Gollancz edition of world one-
act plays.—
EMMA
(W.A.).


THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
ZPUCmJL
m
ma
of the FAMILY
As guardian of the family’s money and as
its financial guide and counsellor, the Bank
is a trusted friend.
This Bank’s experience and friendly
advice are available to’those who seek them.
Its many extra services can help every
member of your family.
The Bank’s subsidiary, the C.B.C.
Savings Bank Limited, can help the family
to
*4*
W
JV
/
NSK
Vs*
a
&
to save for the things it needs. A
savings account encourages
the youngsters to cultivate
the saving habit while
it makes their money
grow.
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
DEPOSITS GUARANTEED BY THE PARENT COMPANY
managers they were. Probably
Tyson’s fame for similar
qualities was earned the same
way.
According to Dad was
a similarity between the two
careers. Both were cattle-
dealers who subsequently
invested their profits in cattle-
breeding, and neither was the
hero of the “poor-boy-makes-
good” tale which seems to be
the stock legend about each.
Tyson’s father was a cattle-
dealer before him, and Kidman,
with his brothers Sackville and
Charles, inherited a nice little
wad of shares in Kapunda
Coppermine when these shares
were worth money. Both gave
their chosen occupations their
undivided attention. Tyson did
disguise himself as a traveller
looking for work—then went
back and bought a group of
stations he had wandered
through. Kidman, in his earlier
Gays, always met his stock-
iiains when they reached
Adelaide, even if it meant hang-
ing around a railway-siding in
the worst of a winter’s night.
Dad always contradicted the
tale that Tyson was a woman-
hater. He had seen him mix-
ing quite sociably with the
womenfolk on Juinbong, and
once at a wayside shanty, when
told that the waitress was
celebrating her birthday, old
Jimmy came to light with a five-
bob tip—a good effort back in
the ’seventies when people
thought in pennies and spent in
larthings.
He also told me that his only
serious disagreement with Kid-
man was because, in his
season as a cattle-buyer, he
sent his reports •by letter:
“W|iat’s the use of there being
a telegraph-line if you don’t use
it?” “But, Mr. Kidman, some
of my reports would cost four
or five pounds if I wired them.”
“Quite right, and waiting for
your letters to get from the
Georgina to Adelaide some-
times costs me four- or five-
hundred.”
From what Dad told me. not'
only of Tyson but of the general
history of the ’seventies and
onwards, I find it hard to
believe that Tyson’s cooks were
instructed to turn down the
travellers. The handout of
flour, tea and sugar, with a
special sundowners’ hut and
pasturage for two horses as one
of the conditions of employ-
ment, were part of the pastoral
economy. The concessions kept
a supply of labor in circulation,
and even the hungriest
squatters—in the days before
telephones and local employ-
ment - agencies—would have


lost money had they stajved the
travelling station-hands back
into the towns. Besides, refusal
of the “bit of meat, etc.,” was
always likely to send the “red
steer” galloping through the
paddocks, and I can’t imagine
Jimmy Tyson encouraging dis-
gruntled wayfarers to burn him
out. Tyson’s grindstone-turn-
ing and gate-swinging assign-
ments, though apocryphal, are
quite in character. They would
have been his ways of letting
someone earn the price of a
pair of boots without having to
disorganise routine to give a
man one day’s work.
Perhaps the most prominent
common quality in our two
greatest cattle-kings was their
relationship with their
permanent employees. They
received loyal service and they
knew and acted on the
knowledge that loyalty cuts
both ways.
It is an aspect of industrial
relationship which doesn’t
seem to be emphasised very
much these days. Our modern
Tysons and Kidmans have to
turn themselves into companies
or else limit their expansion to
what they can handle them-
selves. The old way was the
better one. Tom Ronan
(N.T.).
Socialism
The evils of Socialist legisla-
tion are becoming blurred with
the passage of time and the
continuous pressure exerted by
all kinds of Governments to
enact it.
Measures which would have
been repugnant some years ago
are now accepted without
much argument. The constant
mainstay of its supporters -in
both camps is the bad-business-
man bogy. We have often
heard of these political bogies,
but none of them surely has
been so firmly entrenched as
this one.
This is a purely personal
protest, and I don’t expect
many will agree with my
particular angle, but I hate and
fear this kind of legislation
because I feel helpless against
it.
I can look after myself
against any sort of business
racket, and if I can’t, then this
is a personal and individual
failure. There is no defence,
born of experience and ability
and intelligence, that will avail
against Socialist-inspired laws.
You are completely at the
mercy of the powers-that-be.
This is an utterly frustrating
way to fail, full of bitterness
and the acid taste of unfair
defeat.
It seems to me illogical and
cowardly to churn out laws in
frenzied efforts to protect
mankind from man. These
efforts can never wholly
succeed, and the little bit of
good that may be achieved here
and there, at this stage in our
evolution, is far outweighed by
the harm. The triumphant
days of putting an end to
child-labor in factories are
over. The battle for better
social conditions has long
since been won.
The goal now is oppression,
an ever-growing snowball of
legislation urged on by
pressure-groups on the make,
by no-hopers who figure the
world owes them a living, and
by power-drunk politicians.
The woebegone businessman,
held up as the bogy, is a
tattered scarecrow, incapable
of being a menace to anyone
but himself. —R. H. G.
(N.S.W.).
Moon-crashers
Has Norman Lindsay (B.
23/10/’57) read the works of
Immanuel Velikovsky, I
wonder? He is the most
scholarly, logical and massively
documented “moon-crasher” of
them all, except that he uses,
not moons, but the planets
Mars, Venus and Jupiter,
within historical times, readily
identified by taking literally the
religious mythology of all man-
kind and substituting planets
for Gods. It would be impos-
sible to summarise briefly his
thesis in a few lines. Anyone
who is interested should read
Worlds in Collision and Earth
in Upheaval, and read them
thoroughly—they are not books
to be read in a hurry.
Apart from those “cosmic
catastrophes” within the col-
lective memory of mankind,
and which we have some chance
of reconstructing, there were the
enormously greater catas-
trophes of the past which ended
geological ages. Something we
might remember in these days
of super-bombs is that they are
puny and insignificant com-
pared with the past catastrophes
which thrust Mount Everest
and the Himalayas upward
from beneath the sea, sub-
merged continents (such as
“Atlantis,” if you like) and
created Man. Even more impor-
tant, it might be remembered
that life has not merely
survived, but improved.
Although the loss of individuals
must have been beyond calcula-
tion, and while species and
genera have been wiped out,
these catastrophes did not
destroy life or even retard it,
but were responsible (probably
through increased radio -
activity) for immense evolu-
tionary leaps such as that
between the age of reptiles and
the age of mammals. In fact,
it might be reasonably argued
that but for the earth-shaking
catastrophes of the past we
wouldn’t be here.
Contemplation of what life
has already survived suggests
that life will continue not
merely to survive but thrive,
come what may. And in all
probability Man will survive,
too, for he is a tough and
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 465
Across
I—The1 —The top of a snorter barrel. (8)
s—Many a Spaniard is at home in this town bone. (6)
9—A boss what robs a man of his youth? (7)
10— Degree taken by a bearded cricketer in a sack contest.
(3,4)
11— He carelessly shortened a limb insect to become attractive
and refined. (7)
12 — Renovate one name for Mo West.
(5)
14— Misplaced pity shames one’s
kindlier feelings. (10)
16 —Jolson in the role of a cry of
despair. (4)
18 — -Dress with a Roman <sdress. (4)
19— Makes a mess of calculations
when the countess is bereaved?
(5, 5)
22 — Skin blemishes are back in
primitive mattress filling. (5)
23 — Day without a very unpleasant
ruling line. (7)
24 The high priest of Shiloh is
Idriess —it’s a slur! (7)
26 Edgar . Allan D'Urberville,
literary woman. (7)
27 — Ow! But only if it’s high candle
material. (6)
28— Quietens the most superior sick-
nesses. (8)
Down
1— Impedes picnic baskets. (7)
2 The microbe in the liquor urges
an Australian comic character.
(6, 5) .
3 —A time when Scots celebrate a
swineherd, yes? <8)
4 Arabian demon gives a Friday
tea. (5)
6 Pressing Chaldean fellow? (6)
7 Dash over a city in India. (3)
8 — Short betting odds canonised Sir
Bertram. (7)
10 —Orientals who make the rub seem
different. (7)
13 — The law upset the eccentric’s
underworld refuse from the
Christmas dinner-table. (6-5)
15- —Fool the glad eye given by Robin.
(8)
17 — The most deficient look at the
international cricket! (8)
18— The sourest examination for a
sailor. (7)
20 — Your guttural sister poem written
by Matthew Arnold, but the years
are short in this. (7)
21— Alternative wickedness to the
duck lover (eventually) of Viola.
(6)
23 —Double up between 500 and 50
over the East. (5)
25 —State in which the lazy addresser
says you will find the great
Chicago crook. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 464


THE ‘‘WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 12
tm* m
dp*;
mommJbßM
nr
Green Cape
Green Cape is the site of the southernmost lighthouse on the
N.S.W. coast. The need for a light there was first discussed
in 1873, but there were many delays before it was established.
Because of official tardiness, tenders were not called unti*
1880, when a contract for nearly £13,000 was let to A. W.
Aspinall, who undertook to complete the job in 18 months.
Erection of the Green Cape light had difficulties com-
parable to those experienced at Jervis Bay, where the first
lighthouse in the area was wrongly sited. Aspinall began
work on the Green Cape lighthouse in June, 1881, but soon
found that, because of a bed of white clay some 20 ft. thick
under the site, the foundations would have to go down 29 ft.
instead of the 9 ft. originally planned. Heavy concrete founda-
tions were necessary and the contract price rose by another
£l,BOO. It was not long before the contractor became bank-
rupt. Aspinall’s creditors took over and, after considerable
delays, finished the light, which began to operate on November
1, 1883.
The tower, which was designed by the Colonial Architect,
Mr. James Barnett, is 80 ft. high—3 ft. shorter than the
tallest N.S.W. lighthouse tower, at Wollongong. Focal plane
of the light is 144 ft. above high water.
The first light was of 100,000 candle power. It was
strengthened in 1912 to 250,000 candle power and again in
1923 to 327,000 candle power. It is visible for 18 miles.
The most serious wreck in the area was the total loss of
the passenger steamer, Ly-ee-moon, on the night of May 30,
1886. The vessel, carrying 45 passengers and a crew of 41,
struck a reef off the Cape and began to break up almost
immediately. Seventy-one people, including all the 19
steerage passengers, were drowned. Twenty-four bodies
were recovered from the sea and buried at the Cape. At the
inquest on June 1, 1886, the Coroner found that there had
been "gross negligence” in handling the ship.
The position of the light is latitude 37° 16' south, longi-
tude 150° 04' east. Green Cape is about 240 miles south of
Sydney by sea.
You can have confidence in the quality
of this pure grape brandy ■
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CL I 2
adaptable animal, well dis-
persed over the globe. What
we are all interested in most,
of course, is whether you and
I and our loved ones will sur-
vive. For myself, I think our
chances are better now, bombs
and all, than when we split
each other’s skulls with stone
axes 10,000 years -ago.-
p v PvrxV J 3
.
• . • j r\ • •
Drinking and Driving
Few topics are as inflam-
mable to the Australian
temperament as the subject of
alcoholic liquors, and a recent
“I’m not too sure who he is, but he really has the
message on science-fiction .”
suggestion by Associate Pro-
fessor Norval Morris, of the
Melbourne "University Law
School, has sparked - off a
spirited controversy.
His proposal is that a new
offence should be created so
that anyone convicted of driv-
ing with a blood-alcohol con-
tent exceeding a specified per-
centage should be subject to a
small penalty increasing' on
repeated convictions. The
necessity for this extension of
criminal liability is due to the
difficulty encountered in per-
suading magistrates that the
sober accused satisfied the
imprecise tests of “drunken
driving” or “driving under
the influence” at the time of
the offence.
Sir Stanton Hicks has taken
the point that not everyone
\vith a blood-alcohol content
exceeding the suggested limit
would be properly regarded as
drunk. With respect, this
criticism misconceives the pur-
pose of the suggestion
u has n suggested
that eve who
.. .
dangerous driver a "J'lh 1S 1
bu „ ,he sreat
potential risk to other users
of the road outweighed the
inconvenience and occasional
injustice of imposing a some-
what arbitrary limit In some
respects a limit is more justi-
fiable in the case of drunken
driving than in the case of
excessive speed.
There may be scope for dis-
pute about the percentage
selected, but it should be
possible to choose a standard
which will allow citizens to
have their four or five beers in
safety and yet snare those
whose driving ability has been
impaired to such an extent that
most of them constitute a
danger' to other travellers. —
Fiat Justitia (Vic.).
The Labor Parly
While agreeing with much
of what “D.G.C.” has to say
(B. 27 / 11/’57), I still favor
knocking some sense into an
existing party rather than
starting another new one.
We have enough parties
now; adding to the number
would be more likely to result
in sordid plotting and jockey-
ing for the balance of power
than in providing a solid and
respected Opposition. More-
over, a party for ever in
opposition (which is what
seems to hav& in
mind) would be permanently
impotent and, in the end, be of
little value. If we must have
another party, let us have one
which will be given, at least
occasionally, the responsibility
of governing the country.
The „ ittain function of a
Government is to make and
administer laws. It doesn’t
matter two hoots to me what
a party calls itself if it will,
when in office, make what laws
I want and enforce them firmly
and impartially. I am not
defending any of our parties
as they are at present, but
criticism is pointless unless
backed by positive, construc-
tive suggestions.
Getting down to cases, what
would the proposed new party
offer us? What are “D.G.C.’s”
own views on, for instance,
hire-purchase? Dutch New
Guinea? The New State
movement? Workers’ co-
operatives? How (since he
wants positive anti-Socialist
legislation) would he get
Menzies’ banking bills past the
Senate? In short, has “D.G.C.”
really got some sound, original
ideas?— Jas. Macansh (Q.).


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
BUSHFIRES
By C. A. HUNGERFORD
TTHERE is a general lack of
understanding of the bush-
fire menace in Australia.
People born and reared in the
bush know more about it than
most, but such people rarely
have a hand in framing policies
to fight fires on a large scale.
We cannot hope to achieve
anything until every theory-
even though it may seem
logical—is tested.
An example of a seemingly
logical, but in fact unsound,
theory is one founded on the
statement that 75 per cent, of
bushfires are started by human
neglect or carelessness. It
appears logical to assume that
if human carelessness could be
eliminated, so would 75 per
cent, of bushfire damage. But
a little reflection shows that
this apparently logical deduc-
tion is absurd. The remaining
25 per cent, of bushfires, started
by agencies over which we have
no control, will simply cover
a greater area.
Recent research indi-
cates that when sheep
are provided with a
snlphur - enriching
diet _ they produce
wool which is not
only shrinkless but is
also 50 per cent,
stronger and is more
resistant to chemical
action. Such develop-
ments make lambs
more valuable than
ever before and em-
phasise the need for
greater lamb care—
particularly during
the marking and tail-
ing period. The
use of Elastrator
Rubber Rings for
marking and tailing
considerably reduces
losses and minimises
shock, set-back, and
infection by disease
germs.
Instead of 100 fires, we
would now have 25, but the
same area of country might
be burnt; instead of 100 little
fires, 25 big ones. And big
fires are usually much hotter,
and do more damage, than
small fires.
Many years ago, in the
Burragorang Valley (N.S.W.),
I noticed where a creek in flood
had cut a new channel through
the ancient alluvial deposit to a
depth of 22ft. The whole of
this deposit had clearly been
laid down by successive floods
many years before the arrival
of the white man. The point of
interest in the strata exposed
was the clearness of this
record of the past —I' estimated
the record to cover a period of
400 years.
Qharcoal was present in the
entire bank, from top to
bottom ; I now know that if
the record had covered
thousands of years, there
would have been evidence of
fires throughout the period.
My observations over half a
century have convinced me that
the eucalypt, and other Aus-
tralian flora, have been sub-
jected to periodic firing for
thousands of years.
The Burragorang deposit
showed that there had been
fires there, on an average, every
three years. A well-grown
eucalypt sapling three years old
will survive an ordinary fire.
But the white man has inter-
fered with the immemorial
cycle, and may succeed in
preventing a fire in a certain
area for 10 years or more.
Then, when the fire does come,
the accumulation of com-
bustible material is so immense
that all eucalypts, of any age,
may be destroyed outright.
The ability to throw vigorous
suckers immediately after a fire
is common to all eucalypts, and
several other native plants,
such as the waratah. The
waratah seedling, like the
eucalypt, produces a knobby
swelling just under the surface
of the ground. Each of these
small knobs, or lignum-tubers,
is an embryo sucker-bud. The
top of the bush having been
burnt off, the lignum-tuber is
there ready to go into action,
and immediately produces a
vigorous sucker.
In the case of the waratah,
burning-off and re-suckering
from a lignum-tuber go on,
apparently, for ever. The end-
less succession of suckers round
and round the stump gradually
produces the saucerlike top
common to the root of the
waratah. One of these saucer-
like tops found in the Blue
Mountains measured 4ft. in
diameter and had 32 suckers
growing from it around the
the outside edge. Its age could
not have been less than 4000
years.
These adaptations took time
to develop. They prove that
fire has been part of the routine
of Nature in Australia for ages
past.
The eucalypt seedling also
produces, soon after germina-
tion, a bunch of lignum-tubers.
To get a vigorous and well-
anchored tree, the sapling
should be cut, or burnt off, at
least once when a year or two
old. All eucalypts (with the
exception of a few, like
mountain-ash, which grow in
damp gullies) have some form
of heat-insulation in their bark.
In the case of those with
smooth bark, the bark is
laminated. When the tree is
heated the outer layer shells out
a quarter-inch or so, but is
held from falling by diagonal
fibres. This shelled-off layer
gives considerable protection
from heat.
Lignum-tubers do not persist
in the mature tree as they do
in the waratah because in
ordinary circumstances the
mature tree can withstand fire.
Behavior of the wattle-family
is a good example of the
tendency of a plant to take
advantage of fire. The seed is
contained in a very hard shell,
which has to be cracked before
the seed can germinate. Of
the millions of seeds shed, some
are wholly buried, some are
partially exposed. When fire
comes some are burnt, some
are hardly warmed, but a
proportion get just the right
amount of heat to crack the
shell without killing the seeds.
These germinate in thousands,
and “beat the gun” in Nature’s
competition. For weeks the
young seedlings have a freshly
fertilised world all to them-
selves.
Causes
Now let’s consider some of
the things that start fires.
Lightning, for instance:]
lightning is inevitable, and
rules out the possibility of
total fire-prevention. At this
point it’s as well to take a
breather and consider the facf.
If, by propaganda and other
means, we stop all fires other
than those started by lightning,
all we will have accomplished


Best
Mineral
Supplement
V
for all stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os,v you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesome lick.
Os
CM-
isto
eoHt
OU-X<k£(k.
STERILISED
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCIC PHOSPHATE
if ny particulars gladly supplied —
Write to DAVIS GELATINE: G.P.O. Box 558.1,
SYDNEY • G.P.O. Box 4058, MELBOURNE *
G.P.O. Box 712 F, ADELAIDE # G.P.O. Box 758 K.
BRISBANE • Box H. 588, G.P.0., PERTH
FROM
LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
will be a reduction in the
number of fires. By preventing
some fires only we may .well
find ourselves worse off than
before. In short, we must
realise the impossibility of
entirely preventing bushfires.
The practical aim is mitigation
of the damage caused by them.
In point of numbers, man,
black or white, has started
most fires. The aboriginal set
alight to any scrub as soon as
it became thick enough to
harbor a wallaby. There is no
doubt that before the arrival
of the white man fires were
more frequent than since—
and much less severe.
No doubt cross branches
rubbing together in the wind,
broken bottles and . other
agents occasionally cause fires,
but apart from the bottles
(which, in any case, properly
belong to the man-made
category) these causes are not
frequent enough to justify
more than passing notice. The
extraordinary tendency of fires
(especially those caused by
lightning) to “save themselves
up” until the arrival of bad
conditions must be noted.
To give a typical example:
a very large, smooth-barked
bush-apple was struck by
lightning and took fire about
50ft. from the ground. It burned
downward slowly, and after six
months apparently rrothing
remained but a large, hot hole
in the ground.
After another month, when
the fire seemed quite
extinguished, a large root broke
surface 150 ft. from the stump-
hole. Two years later, during
very bad fire conditions—what
I call third-degree conditions—
fire surfaced from this root
and started a long-remembered
and disastrous bushfire.
When we remember that the
entire timbered area of Aus-
tralia is littered with “starters”
of this type we realise the
absurdity of trying to abolish
bushfires by any methods now
known. It is a fact that
lightning-started fires rarely
cause a general conflagration
there and then. They wait for
favorable conditions, and thus
during the waiting period
usually cannot be seen.
For convenience and brevity
I classify fires and conditions
as first, second and third
degree.
First degree: little or no
wind, material light or moist.
Fire needs nursing to keep it
alight.
Second degree: hot and dry,
little wind. Fire will get out
of control if not checked.
Third degree: heavy, dry
undergrowth or grass, tempera-
ture above 80 degrees, wind
above 20 m.p.h. Fire uncon-
trollable.
A third-degree fire ranks
with tornadoes and earth-
quakes as among the most
dangerous and terrifying off
natural phenomena. Heat pro-
duces drought, and drought
produces more heat. The
cumulative build-up of heat
releases enormous volumes of
inflammable gases in advance
of the fire. Because of
shortage of oxygen much of
this may not ignite immediately.
Vast quantities of reddish-
brown gas are driven skyward,
where, coming in contact with
oxygen, they explode in a
series of rumbling detonations
like artillery fire. Updraught
is terrific, and burning sheets
of bark weighing a hundred-
weight have been tossed 300 ft.
in the air. Burning debris is
scattered high and far ahead of
the fire proper, starting new
fires. Animals, paddocks,
homes and people may be
hemmed-in. Firebreaks, unless
they are very wide, are likely
to be leapfrogged. It is like a
paratroop invasion. There have
been instances of such fires
jumping three, five or even
eight miles.
Mitigation
We are all familiar with the
notices decorating gumtrees
along highways of N.S.W. —-
“Prevent Bushfires.” It is
possible that the public, in
obeying these injunctions, have
done more harm than good.
In my opinion the notices
should be amended to read
“Prevent Midsummer Fires.
Burn Early.”
The city-dweller is apt td
imagine that such a policy
would devastate our forests,
This is the reverse of the truth,
A light burn every second or
third year is very beneficial.
Matted-down humus is not
burnt. The loose, dry surface
only is skimmed off. Mistle-
toe, many types of parasitical
fungus, and some insect pests
are almost exterminated.
Erosion is not encouraged by
such fires, and third-degree
fires are prevented.
The early burn should not
be hot enough, normally, to
burn-off the foliage of tall
trees, but if the forest is infested
with mistletoe or forma
fungoid disease a hotter burn
could be arranged. A forest
in the Windsor (N.S.W.)
district, heavily infested with
both mistletoe and forma and
apparently dying, was so
treated about 15 years ago,
and the speed with which it
became rejuvenated had to be
seen to be believed.
The concept of anti-fire
measures for an entire State
being directed from a central
office in a capital city is, to my
mind, absurd. Conditions of
temperature, wind, moisture-
content and the like vary, and
are never the same at two
different places at a given time.
Action has to be determined
hours, or even minutes, before
execution, and such decisions
can only be made on the spot.
The idea of a Government
servant in the city instructing
the people in some district in
the Monaro, or Riverina, on
what to do in an emergency is
too ridiculous for discussion.
The only possible basis for
an effective fire-mitigation
organisation is the local bush-
fire brigade.
For these to be successful
the leaders and deputy-leaders
must know their jobs. Their
hands must not be tied. The
proper work of the central
office should be the collection
of and distribution of accurate
and general information on
fire-mitigation, the supply and
allocation of equipment and
broadcasting of meteorologi-
cal information.
Every effort should be made
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(5/12/’57)
Heavy rain is indicated on part of the far north coast
and peninsula of Queensland during January, and reasonably
good rains, although below normal, should fall on the
balance of the coast, central highlands, Darling Downs and
Maranoa. Rainfall poor in the west and far south-west.
Moderate rain, mainly below average, is probable on
the coast and tablelands of N.S.W. during January; rain-
fall likely to be poor elsewhere in the State. All told, con-
ditions will probably be dry during the first five months,
particularly in the Riverina and western areas.
Moderate rain below average should occur in Gippsland,
central division and west coast of Victoria during January,
poor rainfall elsewhere. General rains, likely in May.
A dry year in the pastoral areas of South Australia,
but the agricultural areas should fare better. Rainfall most
likely poor during the first four months.
In Western Australia, heavy rains are indicated in the
West Kimberleys during January, with good rains in the
north-west, Gascoyne and south-west areas, but poor rain on
the south-east coast.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE 111-MITISH _
(Snw^uoart
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib.' 'A
1
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
«•««!? »!!*»»? « 11. I 11. I • 1 I I •
to ensure that brigade-leaders
are the best available, and they
should be given opportunities
to meet and discuss fire
problems and techniques.
The present set-up of the
local bushfire-brigades is good,
and around it something even
more valuable and effective
could be built. It should be
made plain that leaders are not
bound by blanket instruction
from any central office. The
only weak spot in such a
scheme is the capacity and fire-
knowledge of the brigade-
leaders. This must be improved;
there is good material to work
on. The present local set-up,
in which every able-bodied
man is a member, ready for
service at a moment’s notice,
is the only possible one.
As well as rakes, axes, wet
bags—which they all have —
knapsack-sprays, mobile power-
spr.ays and water-carts are
necessary equipment. Water-
carts and power-sprays should
be kept in a central depot in
each district. «A knapsack-spray
should be issued to each
member, who should keep it in
working order and sign an
acknowledgment of custody.
The bushfire-brigade captain
should almost have an instinct
for wind direction. He must
make the study of local wind
a life hobby, and he must also
pay close attention to meteoro-
logical forecasts, which are
now good enough to be useful.
Techniques
Now for some definitions. A
forward-burn is one that runs
with the wind —used mostly in
early burning.
A back-burn moves against
the wind. It is slow and safe.
Some sort of break should be
found, or made, along the lee-
side of the area to be burnt,
and this should be made wider
by back-burning. When this
break is wide enough to be
safe, and the wind is not too
strong, the burners can pro-
ceed much faster with a
forward-burn.
The fire should be hot
enough to clean-up all dry
rubbish likely to be a menace
later in the year. If the main
fire threat is from the west it
is obvious that rubbish to the
immediate west of houses,
fences, wheatfields and the
like must be removed. The
captain may decide to clean-up
his entire neighborhood, or to
confine himself to the more
dangerous patches, or, by
means of “strip-burns,” to
break-up his area into “fire-
tight compartments.”
A base-break is a break a
few feet or yards wide, used as
a base for a wider burn. It is,
of course, quite useless except
as a base. A third-degree fire
will cross it as though it were
not there.
Standing dead trees are
always a menace. They should
not be allowed to get alight,
but if they do, and if there
is immediate danger from
them, they must be felled.
In stopping a fire from
running up a tree with a
knapsack-spray start at the top
of the blaze, and lose no time
—it may be out of reach in
seconds.
It is, generally speaking, bad
practice to try to put out a
smouldering log or stump with
water. The only way to make
sure it is out is to let it burn
to the last chip. See that there
are no such logs .or stumps any-
where near the burn-margin—
especially on the lee-side.
Making base-breaks with a
bulldozer is quick and easy, but
treacherous. The ’dozer leaves
a ridge of loose earth on either
side, usually covering, or partly
covering, inflammable matter.
This material, once alight, may
smoulder for days, or even
weeks, and come to life in
third-degree conditions. The
same thing has been done with
a shovel.
Be careful. It pays. Early
burning should usually be
done between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.
Fires that will burn merrily
enough at 4 p.m. will often go
out after sundown. Fires that
apparently go out from any
cause should always be
inspected.
When to Burn?
Burning can be done any
time between April and the
following December, depend-
ing, of course, on local condi-
tions. The decision should rest
with the captain. The period
between when the fire won’t
run at all, and when it burns
too hotly, is often very short.
Sometimes only a single day.
When doing preliminary
protection - burns, such as
around a house, start as close
as possible, and stand by with
your knapsack. It is least
dangerous when first lit. The
further it goes, the hotter it
gets.
In every locality, certain
routine wind-changes can be
used. For instance, day after
day in hot weather you may
have a westerly, which at a
certain time drops and is
replaced by a south-easter. This
is more-or-less a rule within
50 -miles of the east coast of
N.S.W. The south-easter
heralds its approach by a
brown haze on the eastern
hoi;izon. Start your fire with
one wind, and put it out with
the other.
With efficient early burning,
very little protection will be
necessary. While burning, it’s
as well to keep watch on house
and outbuildings. See that
gutters aren’t full of dead
leaves. All ventilators near
danger-spots should be covered
with fly-gauze; windows and
doors closed.
It must be clearly understood
that the only way to fight a
third-degree fire is before it
happens. Burning breaks in
third-degree conditions is a
desperate, and often a futile,
business. Among the many
possible lines of action it has
been suggested that the best is
to travel as far, and fast, as
possible in a direction oblique
to the wind.
Writer once got out of
immediate trouble by setting
fire to a grass-paddock, and
taking refuge on the burnt
ground. Incidentally, this grass-
fire burnt back to the main
blaze, and in so doing saved a
building. The building was
saved with no more equipment
than a box of matches, a green
bush for a beater —and, of
course, a lot of luck.
However, third-degree fires
do happen, and will continue to
happen while our preventive
measures remain as they are.
In bad conditions the only
counter is the burnt break.
Find a road, stream or other
base, and start a back-burn at
once. As soon as the break is
wide enough a modified form of
forward-burn can be used. Run
a line 20ft. back from the break
and let your fire go with the
wind. Repeat with other lines
of fire as far back as seems
safe. Watch the lee-side of the
break continuously. A single
undetected jump and the whole
job may be spoilt. All houses
must be back-burned on the
windward side, and then
watched continuously.
The above could be called
frontal attack. Before going
on to the flank attack, it should
be pointed out that fires are so
variable that we can bind our-
selves to no single technique.
We must apply every known
stratagem, one after the other,
or all at once ; and so much
depends on the experience and
judgment of the captain.
Fires always fan-out. That
is to say, their front gets wider
and wider as they advance.
There should be a fire-gang on
each flank, attempting to
reduce, or reverse, this fanning-
out. Short lulls in the-wind, or
gaps in the grass or under-
growth, create the opportunity
to- shorten the front. These
opportunities, like . climatic
phases in a battle of human
forces, should not be lost.
Depending on the efficiency
of the fire-gang, a change of
wind can be a calamity or a
godsend. If all margins have
been thoroughly extinguished,
the change may give the oppor-
tunity to kill the fire. If this
marginal work has been care-
lessly done, it may mean an
enormous extension of the
front.
It is often unwise to
wear the fire - gang out
trying to kill a fire until such
an opportunity as the evening
or earl y-morning lull, a
thunderstorm or a shower
develops. When one of these
occurs a supreme effort should
be made to kill- the fire out-
right. Afterwards a con-
tinuous patrol must be main-
tained, until it is certain there
are no smouldering points any-
where near the margins.
Never make the mistake of


AIR TRAVEL BOOKLET
is packed with good advice
WRITS IN FOR YOUR COPY NOWI
TO
advice
ms
TRAVEL
AIR
s£
t'K*
***
m
“Advice to Air Travellers” ha*
been especially planned by Qantai
to tell you about travel formalities
baggage allowances, clothes,
etc. You’ll find it most
informative, so write in today
for your copy to:
Qantas Empire Airway* Ltd.f
Advertising Department,
Box 489, G.P.0., Sydney*
CEEJQ3)
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRUNI
Qantoi Emptr* Alrwoyi Limited (In*. In Old.) In a«odofton with 1.0.A.C. end TEW
Q 61.82.77
thinking a thunderstorm will
kill a fire. It merely stuns it.
The fire-gang must finish the
job. It is sometimes good
tactics for two fire-gangs, one
on each flank, to follow the
wake of a fire ready to pounce
when such opportunities arise.
In their pursuit they must
extinguish every marginal
smoulder-point.
Early burning of grass is not
so good. Apart from destruc-
tion of valuable fodder, grass-
land cannot be “skimmed” so
well. Every road in N.S.W.
should be a clean fire-break
from November on. If there is
an additional chain-wide strip
either side, so much the better.
1080
“Black Stump”: Recent
warnings to humans against
eating rabbits which had been
killed with 1080 poison—
myxo’s best ally—have brought
“trapped rabbits only” signs out
in the food-shops. One 1080-
poisoned rabbit is enough to kill
a dog, so it pays to keep Rover
at home until all carcasses have
been collected after a poisoning.
As 1080 must be administered
by Lands officers, the only way
it can be bought is in the form
of 1080-treated oats. A pound
of these is enough to kill
humans and cattle, and 2oz. to
3oz. can leave another dead
sheep on your hands. Most
birds are resistant —sparrows
and starlings are the exceptions.
Mobile Hay-pelleting
Stock-feeding developments
in the U.S.A. have left us
behind in many ways. Not that
this is necessarily to the dis-
credit of Australian farmers —
American climatic and market
conditions permit, and in some
areas enforce, considerable
expenditure on mechanisation
of fodder-conservation and
intensive-feeding methods.
A type of fodder-production
which has already become
familiar in this country, par-
ticularly in N.S.W., is the
pelleting of feed, including
lucerne-hay, for cattle and
sheep as well as for poultry.
But in California one farm has
gone beyond anything done in
Australia by pelleting. lucerne
directly from the paddock on
the move.
Two brothers who run the
farm have designed and are
successfully operating a
machine which picks-up hay
from the windrow, grinds,
pellets and dices it, all in one
operation.
The inventors’ aim is to
handle lucerne like grain.
Three years of trial-and-error
have led to a 10-ton Heath-
Robinsonian monster which
collects a windrow of lucerne-
hay at one end and delivers
finished pellets into a bulk-tank
at the other. From the H-ton-
capacity tank the pellets can be
augered to a bulk-truck moving
alongside.
Pick-up attachment and
hammer-mill are mounted on
an Army-surplus armored car
—the prime-mover of the con-
traption. The mill blows the
lucerne back to a trailer on
which is mounted the pelleter,
steam-generator, cooling-fan
and bulk-storage.
The lucerne cures overnight
between mowing and window-
ing, and is pelleted when the
moisture-content is about 20
per cent. Moisture-content of
the finished half-inch pellets
is between 5 per cent, and 6 per
cent.
What about costs?
So far it is not a low-cost
operation. Pelleter, hammer-
mill and self-propelling unit
gulp as much as 250 gallons of
diesel a day. Production has
never quite reached two tons
an hour —a long way from the
seven tons one can expect with
a baler —and the owners would
like $l5 per ton over the price
of baled hay.
Nevertheless, last year they
pelleted between 800 and 900
tons from 350 acres of lucerne,
and this year will harvest con-
siderably more.
The advantage in storage-
space and handling is evident
from the fact that a 5-ton load
of pellets runs to about 232
bushels.
There seems every reason to
believe that pelleting of hay on
the move will become a more
common process in the future
developing just as, for
example, wheat-, maize- and
potato-harvesting have in the
past.
J. E. Slee.
Sheep's Teeth
“Bubbly”: Wide, regularly
and closely-spaced teeth, with
parallel side teeth, are the most
desirable in sheep. Beware of
overshot and undershot jaws.
The useful life of ewes is
determined largely by the rate
at which their incisors wear,
Decay is not a problem. Once
a sheep gets a full mouth,
rates of wear on different
pasture soils can make age-
estimates deceptive. Turnips
tend to loosen young teeth, and
sandy soils to hasten wear in
the mouth.
Controlled rotational grazing
has helped to reduce wear, and
culling both rams and ewes for
mouth faults should improve
the mouths of progeny.
Poultry Feed
“C.A.L.”: Perth poultry-
farmers have discarded
lucerne as the greenfeed diet
for their fowls, mainly because
the legume needed to be cut
with a scythe, carted to the
feed-shed, and then cut into
small pieces with a hand-
cutter. Now a patch of
Kikuyu-grass supplies the
nutriment, and is easy to
harvest and distribute. Each
day a strip is cut with a motor-
mower, and the chopped grass,
automatically caught in the
catcher, can be fed directly to
the poultry.


Women's Letter
S YDNEY
Two first-nights, added to the round of
Christmas parties, made this a very gay
week. Of course it was a delight to see
Dame Sybil Thorndike and Sir Lewis
Casson here once again. At the reception
given by J. C. Williamson’s for them and
other members of “The Chalk Garden”
during the week Dame Sybil was quite
the most vital person in the room, and
her hat was the prettiest. Wide, with a
flat, sailor brim, it was wreathed with
full-blown pink poppies. “I got it in
America when I went to visit my daughter
in Canada,” she said. This fortnight's
visit to their daughter is the only holiday
the Cassons have had in nearly two
years, but they seem to thrive on work.
“I can see myself as an Australian,” said
Sir Lewis, when it was suggested that
they might settle down here, so perhaps
Sydney or Melbourne may have that
honor in the future.
* ☆ ☆
Nearly all Sydney’s well-known first-
nighters were present at the opening
night of “The Chalk Garden,” which, by
the way, includes some lively discussions
on gardening, thereby making a few of
Sydney’s water-starved gardeners sigh
with envy. Though most of the younger
girls are wearing ballerinas with wide,
stiffened skirts, the decoration being
generally bands or panels of goffered
chiffon, two of the most striking-looking
first-nighters, Mrs. Michael Jones and her
sister-in-law Mrs. Ted Jones, wore straight
dresses, Mrs. Michael in citron shantung,
and Mrs. Ted in black.
*}■ 4- V
The previous night at the Independent
“The Lark” (Jean Anouilh’s “L’Alouette,”
a new version of the trial of Jeanne
d’Arc) had a successful opening. At the
theatre’s Christmas-party, held after the
show, Dr. Raoul Cardamatis received
congratulations on his production, and
members of the cast, including Verity
Marina, Wendy Shaw, Ailsa McPherson
and Shirley Falconer, were present.
# #
Driftwood has come into its own as a
Christmas decoration this flowerless
summer. At the exhibition at David
Jones’ in aid of the Sydney Day Nurseries,
people who took notes of unusual ideas
were numerous. A simple, effective
notion was the leafless tree that held
Christmas-cards on its boughs. Another
tree was made of a tinfoil cone. Mrs. J.
Simons made a lovely little tree of white
open-out paper bells, grouped in bunches
on a pole and prinked with small pale-
blue baubles. Mrs. C. Rogers and Miss
S. Stenning made a revolving, musical-
box tree of overlapping silver leaves, and
the decorated doors of Mrs. David Pratten
and Mrs. Kenneth Noad were notable.
Two of the most appealing exhibits were
the toy-decorated tree by Melinda Hughes
(aged 7) and the desert scene centred on
the Nativity by Alexandra Stephen
(aged 10).
☆' ☆ ☆
More Christmas-decorations were to be
seen at the Christmas-party of the Garden
Club, held after its annual meeting, at
which Sir Frank Berryman presided. The
supper-table had been arranged by Mrs.
Kay Williams, who made use of silvered
pine-cones and red ribbons. Mrs. G.
Caiger made a charming little Christmas-
tree of rosemary, and Mrs. E. G. Water-
house two arrangements in gold tones
(her arrangement at the Kindergarten's
exhibition was a snowy scene with a mid-
night sky including Sputnik II). The
president of the club, Mrs. Arthur Davis,
showed Christmas-souvenirs from all over
the world, including a carved-wood crib
from Oberammergau and Venetian-glass
angel candlesticks from Italy.
The marriage of Susan Williams,
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. L. C.
Williams, of Avalon Beach, to Lieutenant
Peter Hunt, R.A.N., took place on Satur-
day, December 14, at St. Anne’s Church,
Straihfield. It was a naval wedding with
a guard-of-honor, and the reception was
held at the Royal Aero Club of N.S.W.,
Bankstown. Lieutenant Hunt is . the
youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Julian
Hunt, of Bundaberg ( Q .).
There was a little air of sadness about
the opening of the Christmas Exhibition
at the Grosvenor Galleries, because of
the death of Walter Taylor earlier in the
week. As director of the galleries, Walter
had become one of Sydney’s personalities
with his fine taste and perfectionist
standards. Mr. Borovansky opened the
exhibition, which included several of
William Dargie’s ballet pictures. Admiral
Showers introduced the speaker, and Mr.
Douglas Pratt spoke in appreciation of
the work of Walter Taylor.
☆ * *
Torchbearers for Legacy arrived all
white-gloved and summer-garbed at their
Christmas-party during the week when
guests-of-honor were Lady Slim and
Dame Pattie Menzies. Group by group
they handed in their cheques raised for
the cause during the year, the largest
coming from the Entertainments Com-
mittee with £5250 and Parramatta with
£5167. Legacy’s president, Mr. Justice
le Gay Brereton, “made a rough computa-
tion” as the cheques came in, but was not
allowed to announce the magic number.
“Oh, no, we can’t have our thunder
stolen,” said Torchbearers’ president,
Mrs. Lionel McFadyen, and announced
the total sum herself, for the magic figure
was £60,666 3s. 10d., a record, and, said
Mr. Justice Brereton, “Enough to beat
the deficit!”
☆ ☆ ☆
Terry Clune’s Galleries in Macleay
Street have quite an atmosphere with
their fresh, open effect, their abstract
paintings on the walls, and their realistic
(because it is real) tree just outside. An
Abstract Christmas is the name of the
present exhibition, which gathered more
pretty girls to its opening than its fair per-
centage. June Finlayson (a Miss Aus-
tralia, and why not?) was there, and two
attractive girls, Darani and Tanya Lewers,
came with their mother, Margo Lewers,
before going off to wish Mrs. Lyndon
Dadswell bon voyage on her trip to
London, where she will join her husband.
Mrs. Frank Clune helped Terry to wel-
come the viewers before herself taking-off
for dinner with the Dan Carrolls at the
Australia.
V v
Members of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra were entertained at their annual
Christmas-party at the A.B.C.’s rooms at
King’s Cross during the week. Lady Slim
was guest-of-honor, Sir John Tivey and
Mrs. A. H. Chartres the welcomers.
Noted there Mrs. Ewart Chappell, who
was formerly Miss Marie Bremner ; also
Mrs. Huck Finlay, very excited about
the premiere of “Robbery Under Arms”
held in Sydney during the week —daughter
Ursula has a leading role. Ursula, who
is now Mrs. Oliett Woodhouse, plans to
remain in London for some time. She
has a charming little flat in the Kensing-
ton home of Mrs. Hugh Eagleton,
formerly actress Lois Green. A beautiful
fashion-note at the party the ruby-
and-emerald brooch worn by Lady Lloyd
Jones. In the shape of an open rose with
leaves, it was designed by Bulgari, of
Rome.
☆ ☆ ☆
Women certainly look like all getting
the sack in 1958! The winning garment
in the Wool Fashion Awards competition
was a sack-line frock in amethyst fine
worsted, priced under £l5. Noted, in-
cidentally, that all seven of the special
awards went to Melbourne manufacturers.


MELBOURNE
Melbourne is dressed in its most
festive garments to welcome the Christmas
season. At night the streets are fairyland
adorned with festoons of colored lights,
gleaming from trees and shop-fronts. In
Collins Street the soft light from colorful
lanterns falls on the passing crowd, and
in the grounds of St. Paul’s Cathedral
is a large gaily decorated Christmas-tree.
There’s another at the Independent
Church in Collins Street, at which toys
and gifts from passers-by may be left for
children in the various orphanages. At
night choirs sing Christmas carols from
the portico of the Town Hall. During
the day the music of carol-singing is
heard in many shops. In Bourke Street
Myers have devoted five windows to the
“Nutcracker” ballet. The Sugar Plum
fairies dance to the music, and the story
ends with the gayest and most colorful
“Aurora’s Wedding.” Every window of
the “Nutcracker” ballet has movement
and light, and the children and
adults—are entranced. Opposite, the
entire facade of one shop tells the Christ-
mas story in joyous carols and the pealing
of bells. Further up Bourke Street there's
an enormous figure of Father Christmas,
beckoning with one finger, while one
of his electric-light eyes winks roguishly.
The City Fathers have really gone to town
with the decorations —the outsize red-
and-white striped peppermint-sticks look
real enough and good enough to eat.
* * a
The city’s first “Summer Festival” will
begin on January 25, with many of the
week’s festivities taking place at St.
Kilda. The Festival committee has been
formed under the auspices of the Royal
Children’s Hospital, to which will go
proceeds from all functions. The
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, has granted
his patronage, and he and Lady Brooks
will interrupt their holiday to attend a.
gala premiere at the St. Kilda Palais
Theatre on January 29. Afterwards
there’ll be a champagne supper at Earl’s
Court.
During the Week there will be ballet,
Ice Follies revue and many other attrac-
tions, and the highlight of the final day
will be a battle of flowers. The Mayor
of St. Kilda, Councillor A. C. Watson,
is committee chairman.
Noticed at the premiere of “The Multi-
Colored Umbrella” at the Comedy, Mr.
and Mrs. James McGauran (her choice a
short frock of black Chantilly-lace and
a sapphire-blue mink stole), the Leo
Guests (her frock emerald-green), Mrs.
Leon Ress (her short sheath-frock of
silver-grey, made from a sari, had a
narrow jewelled panel down the centre-
front), Dr. and Mrs. Arnold Richardson
(the latter’s bouffant frock of black silk-
taffeta worn with a natural mink stole),
and Mr. and Mrs. Saul Aarons (she
wearing iridescent-blue silk-faille).
☆ ☆ ☆
At the wine-tasting party held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Dick Doyle, to aid
the Lady Foster Free Kindergarten,
guests were received by the junior
auxiliary’s president, Pamela Middleton,
and Mrs. Dick Doyle, who is a member
of the auxiliary. Pamela wore a bouffant
frock of turquoise-blue faille, Mrs. Doyle
a sheath-frock of white guipure-lace.
Guests included Mrs. Sam McKay (presi-
dent of the parent committee), Mrs.
Bruce Kirkpatrick (hon. secretary), Mrs.
John Warne (hon. treasurer), Dr. and
Mrs. Donald Hossack, Mr. and Mrs. Paul
Fitzgerald, Dr. and Mrs. David Caro,
Colonel and Mrs. D. McKenzie, Anne
McCauley, Elizabeth Sutteridge, Hilda
Corbett, Ita Hanrahan and Barbara
Murray Smith.
Judith Storey has now become
assistant-secretary of the newly formed
Junior Australian-American Association.
An old St. Catherines girl, Judith is the
youngest child of Lady Storey, of Toorak,
and the late Sir John Storey. Judith, a
wise choice for the job, recently
visited her elder sister, who is married
and living in the United States. Judith
went to America after a tour of Great
Britain and the Continent. Her favorite
hobbies are music and skiing. Photo by
Bruno Benini.
Victoria League senior vice-president
Mrs. Guy Bakewell, assisted by vice-
president Mrs. Frank May, received the
100 guests who were invited to an at-
home in the league’s clubrooms. Among
the guests were Mr. and Mrs. lan Connell
(a former senior vice-president), Mr. and
Mrs. Frank Merizies, Mrs. Eric Ross, Mr.
and Mrs. Dermot Connelly and Mrs.
Robert Flamilton.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Patricia, younger daughter of
Mrs. Percy Northrop, of Toorak, and
Mr. Geoffrey Cohen, were married at
the Toorak Presbyterian Church, girls
from the choir of her old school, St.
Catherine’s, sang at the service. She wore
a white pin-tucked embroidered-organza
gown and a tulle veil, and carried a
bouquet of white roses. Her sister, Mrs.
Noel Harman, was matron-of-honor, and
Julia Page and Jenifer Paton were brides-
maids. They all wore lilac draped
chiffon frocks and had satin Dior bows
in their hair. Small mauve calla-lilies
formed their bouquets. The bridegroom,
Barry Beauchamp, is the only son of
Mr. and Mrs. H. W. Patten, of McKinnon.
Best man was Marshall Gibson, and
groomsmen were John Palliser and Brian
Burge. Reception was held in a pink-lined
marquee (decorated with white flowers)
set in the garden of the home of the
bride’s mother.
CANBERRA
Sudden gusts of wind tended to mar
the spectacular scene at the Graduation
Day parade of the Royal Military
College, Duntroon, though full marks go
to the spartan effort in control shown by
the parading cadets as a number of caps
were carried off by the wind and miracu-
lously missed being trampled underfoot.
The R.M.C. band, immaculate in starch-
white jackets and helmets, added a color-
ful note to the parade. Chief of the
Australian General Staff, Lieut.-General
Sir Henry Wells, took the salute and
presented diplomas and prizes to the 55
graduands. New Zealand Chief of
General Staff, Major-General C. E. Weir,
saw his countryman Senior-Under-
Officer L. J. Lynch receive the Sword of
Honor. Color-Sergeant D. Francis, a
Victorian, was presented with the Queen’s
Medal.
Visitors from all States and N.Z. were
among the guests entertained by the
Commandant, R.M.C., Major-General J.
G. N. Wilton, and Mrs. Wilton at a
garden-party in the lovely gardens of
Duntroon House, following the parade.
Gaily decorated with flags, balloons
and streamers, and surrounded by flood-
lit terraces, the college gymnasium was
the setting for the Graduation Ball as a
climax to the day. Hostess Mrs. Wilton
chose a full-skirted gown in watermelon-
pink organdie ; she received the guests
with host Senior-Under-Officer (now
Lieutenant) L. J. Lynch. Sir Henry and
Lady Wells were among the official party
(she in champagne chiffon); also Lieut.-
General and Mrs. Pollard, her gown in
lilac nylon ; Lieut.-Gen. V. Secombe and
his wife; Maj.-Gen. C. E. Weir; Col.
D. A. Caughley; the Minister for the
Army, Mr. J. O. Cramer, and Col. and
Mrs. D. Daunt.
Also noted Major John Stubbs and
his wife, she in grey satin brocade;
Major and Mrs. L. Grenville ; Major and
Mrs. McLean ; Mr. and Mrs. L. Hooper ;
Major O’Neill- and his wife ; and Padre
and Mrs. Brown Beresford. Among the
lovely gowns noted were Miss D. Reid’s
long gold taffeta featuring large bows
from bodice to hem ; Miss N. Hess, sweet
in pale pink pleated silk ; Miss Diana
Steage’s long white frock trimmed with
deep-red velvet. At midnight the
traditional ceremony of “putting up the
pips” was followed by the Graduation
Waltz.


“otherwise, he won’t come
back.’’
We denied any desire to
talk. O’Shaunnesy contem-
plated with doubt our promised
silence, and discovered a
method of strengthening our
resolve.
“You better come down with
me and give me a hand to
watch for a while,” he declared
calculatingly, insuring himself
against leakages by the brother-
hood of an alliance.
Actually we didn’t wait long.
No sooner had O’Shaunnesy
settled down in silence after
massaging for a moment against
a corner-post a back worried
by itch than a rustling of
parted bladey-grass leaves from
the bank of a gully scratched
across the nerves of night.
O’Shaunnesy crept like an
apprentice commando to the
top of the gully-bank. We heard
him belch, saw him rise to his
feet, rifle in air, and utter a
dramatic challenge.
“Is that you, Percy?” be
roared. From the gully came
denial.
“No, Mr. O’Shaunnesy,” a
worried voice called, “it’s not
me . • .
WE sat in the kitchen, con-
templating the captured
Percy. O’Shaunnesy scowled
at him fiercely and settled back
for prolonged interrogation.
“Did you pinch some of my
fowls the other night?” he
demanded
“Oh, yes, Mr. O’Shaunnesy,”
Percy said with fierce pride.
He regarded us benevolently
and felt moved to tribute.
“They was the best chooks
I ever ate,” he recollected
amiably. “Gee,” he said, “I
like chooks. Though,” he
conceded, after a moment’s
searching, “they’re not so nice
when you’ve got to cook them
in the mud down the creek.
Aunty won’t cook them when I
take them home. She just
buries them in the backyard.
She says she’s going to tell a
policeman on me one of these
days.”
“She is!” O’Shaunnesy
exploded. “What do you think
I’m going to do?”
But O’Shaunnesy decided to
shun the law.
“I’ll give him another
chance,” he declared after let-
ting Percy go, “but if he comes
back again, I’ll march him
straight up to the station.”
He decided to set up a pro-
vision of restraint.
“When you go to school
tomorrow,” he told Gilly,
“you explain to Miss Enfield
what happened. And,” he
emphasised, with heavy
dignity, “you tell her it’s his
last chance.”
It was a charge filled with
difficulty. Gilly, weighted with
responsibility, explored escape
on the way home with a mind
shrinking from reality.
“Who,” he inquired
miserably, “did O’Shaunnesy
say had to tell her?”
“You,” I recalled with guilty
relief.
Gilly sighed.
“And remember —‘ Shinowax ’ floor-polish !”
“I thought that was it,” he
muttered . . .
AN escaping pony which
evaded attempts at capture
among the tea-trees of its home-
paddock with an unexpected
frivolity and stubbornness lent
to it by pillaged corn the even-
ing before brought Gilly late
to the classroom.
Already Miss Enfield stood
in front of the class, her thin
nostrils 'flaring as though time
had not yet accustomed her to
the aroma of boys’ bare, bony
feet outthrust from scarred,
initialled desks, insinuating
poetry into our unreceptive
souls. Gilly shuffled to the
schoolroom door and stood
there, foal-nervous.
“Stop!” Miss Enfield shrilled
with outflung arm and tight
shut eyes.
“Stop!” she repeated, blink-
ing fervently.
Gilly froze.
“For thy tread is on an
empire’s dust,” Miss Enfield
advised.
Gilly cautiously lifted his
right foot and gravely
inspected the traces of his bare
sole. He stole a glance at his
left foot and wiped it modestly
on the wooden floor.
“An earthquake’s spoil is
sepulchred be 1 o w,” Miss
Enfield insisted.
Gilly eyed the floor, his face
wreathed in wonder.
“Gilly,” Miss Enfield
announced primly, “come in.
Whatever are you doing stand-
ing there?”
Gilly’s hands moved, franti-
cally building words.
“But,” he stammered, “but
you told me”
He abandoned the hopeless-
ness of explanation and crept
to his place.
“Will you,” he begged as we
left the classroom at midday,
“give a man a hand to tell
Miss Enfield what O’Shaunnesy
said?”
It was an appeal too touch-
ing to be denied. We stood
before Miss Enfield’s table and
delivered with fidelity the
message of O’Shaunnesy. Miss
Enfield blinked, her face
face whitened and she made
little refined gurglings of
horror.
“Oh, dear,” she murmured ;
“Mr. O’Shaunnesy mustn’t do
that. He simply mustn’t tell
the police. Oh, what a terrible
scandal that would be. I
simply couldn’t stand it.
Really I simply couldn’t.”
A great wave of compassion
at her distress flowed into Gilly
and me. Gilly shuffled his
bare feet as a gesture of
sympathy.
“They wouldn’t give him
more than a couple of years, I
don’t think,” he said comfor-
tingly.
Miss Enfield’s delicate hand
covered her mouth. Memories
of her infinite understanding
of the importance of unbroken
shanghai - forks encouraged
Gilly to discover further offer-
ings of comfort.
“He mightn’t get two years
even,” he said |vith feeling.
“My old man says”:
“My father ,” Miss Enfield
corrected automatically.
“My father,” Gilly went on
staunchly, “says they often
knock a bit off for the First
Defenders’ Act.”
Miss Enfield sniffled
miserably. Gilly surreptitiously
wiped his nose on his sleeve.
“I wonder,” Miss Enfield
announced suddenly, “whether
Mr. O’Shaunnesy would be
kind enough to come in and
discuss the matter with me.
Perhaps if I could explain to
him that Percy isn’t a bad boy,
really . . .”
Gilly met the challenge of
recompense.
“I’ll tell him for you,” he
promised fiercely-; “I’ll go
straight home and tell him this
arvo, I won’t even have a
swim. An’ I’ll ask him to come
in tonight and see you.”
YjyE met O’Shaun-
” nesy at the
cane-hauling siding
next morning when
we rode on Gilly’s
big brother Nick’s
lorry as reward for cleaning
the fowlhouse.
“I hear,” Nick observed
conversationally to O’Shaun-
nesy, “that you’ve been losing
a few chooks lately.”
O’Shaunnesy paused in
composing on his cane-truck
ticket a scorching condemna-
tion directed at the sugar-mill
weighbridge-staff for the short-
ness of truck-chains to regard
Nick in surprise.
“Aw, that,” he said depreca-
tingly ; “aw, a couple of old
moulty hens went off, that’s
all. Nothing worth worrying
about.”
Gilly and I regarded each
other with great satisfaction.
“It’s a pity,” Nick conceded
expansively, as he freed the
steel rope from his hauling-
winch, “that young Percy is
such a worry to Miss Enfield.
You know, she’s not a bad old
beggar at all.”


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
To keep your women-
folk economically stylish,
see that they always get
the smart, accurate,
practical knitting and
needlecraft art i d e s
featured in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
O’Shaunnesy’s head rose
from across a cane - truck
stanchion.
“Aw, I wouldn’t say she was
all that old,” he observed
mildly.
It was that night that Percy
stole the seven pillows of
O’Shaunnesy . . .
Q’SHAUNNESY traced the
passage of future events
for us from the window of his
lorry, as he paused in the late
afternoon on his way to town.
“I’m going to charge right
up to that bloody old school-
teacher,” he declared, “and I’m
going to shake her by the neck
until she tells me where Percy
put those pillows. Then I’m
going to throw Percy right
into the lorry, heave the
pillows on top of him, jump
up and down on him two or
three times, and then I’m
going to whistle him straight
round to the sergeant.”
“You’re being a bit tough,
don’t you think?” Nick
hazarded.
“Tough !” O’Shaunnesy
exploded. “I should have
done it long ago. That’s what
you get for listening to a
flaming woman. Pillows stolen
right out of my shed. Next
thing he’ll take the bed away
from under a man and I’ll
wake up next morning and fall
on the floor. You mark my
words,” he roared. “I’ll make
an example of him. Him and
his sanctimonous old aunty.”
He smashed the truck into
gear and roared up the road.
“Hell,” Gilly said miserably.
“What’s a man going to do?”
He spat with listless
accuracy on to a dragonfly
making shadow-thin line of
inquiry at a sword-tip of
summer-grass. The fly sped
sideways in puzzled distress
and darted away across the
paddock on frantic, trans-
parent wings.
“She’ll think I didn’t try
hard enough with O’Shaun-
nesy,” Gilly said mournfully,
the triumph of successful fly-
spitting unnoticed, made
hollow by remorse. He braced
himself with sudden decision.
“It’s no good,” he said
decisively. “A man must do
something. I’m going to ride
into town and try to stop
O’Shaunnesy from going to
the rozzers.”
“He might have gone to
them already,” I said.
“No,” Gilly recalled, accept-
ing without doubt the
prophecies of O’Shaunnesy.
“It’ll take him time to shake
her by the neck and jump two
or three times on Percy . . .”
We forced our resentful
ponies away from a half-
finished meal of chop-chop
and molasses, coaxed bits into
their syrupy, evasive mouths,
clinched girths on breath-
swollen bellies, avoided eye-
seeking tails, flicked at a
pretence of buffalo-fly, waited
calculatingly and kneed
savagely at the treacherously-
swol le n bellies until the
tongues slid safe in the buckles.
O’Shaunnesy’s lorry stood
before Miss Enfield’s house.
“We’re not too late,” Gilly
sighed in relief. He stood
listening in an uneasy silence
for evidence of argument.
“Well,” he squeaked,
“maybe O'Shaunnesy grabbed
her by the neck and squeezed
too hard. Maybe he strangled
her.”
His face mirrored dread.
“I better sneak up the side
of the house and have a
gander inside,” he muttered.
“You hold the horses; we
might have to ride for our
lives. O'Shaunnesy might
murder us because we saw
him.”
I watched Gilly creep to a
window, peer anxiously inside,
pass on again to another. I
saw his face tighten with dis-
covery. He turned and came
towards me and the mark of a
new and terrible knowledge
moved in his eyes.
“Did you see her?” I asked
hoarsely.
Gilly nodded.
“She’s in the kitchen,” he
croaked mechanically, as
though his mind couldn’t yet
reach at words potent enough
to describe the things he had
seen. He took his pony’s reins.
“I never thought I’d see any-
thing like that,” he admitted.
“Maybe,” I sajd, “he never
hurt her too much ; maybe he
did it real quick before she
even knew what was happen-
ing.”
Gilly gazed at me uncompre-
hendingly.
“How do you mean?” he
asked.
I search the past for example.
“Well, you remember when we
broke the axe-handle, hey, and
Nick had to wring a chook’s
neck? It never hurt much
really, the chook never sung
out at all.”
“But O’Shaunnesy didn’t
wring her neck,” Gilly
muttered. “He didn’t do any-
thing like that at all.”
He gazed across his pony’s
neck into the middle distance.
“He's in the kitchen with
her all right,” he said. “But
he’s not shaking her by the
neck. She's sitting on his
knee.”
T ATE at night we heard
O’Shaunnesy’s lorry rattle
homewards. It was a pattern
that grew familiar with repeti-
tion during the following week.
Nick grew critical of
mechanical wastage.
“He’ll have to get that
truck-motor rebored before the
season’s out if he keeps this
up,” he judged, from a mind
sharply receptive to the extrava-
gant demands of piston-travel.
Gilly was drawn into an
appraisal inspired by Nick's
practical approach.
“And he can’t be looking
after his chooks properly
neither,” he said ; “they could
all get pinched when he's out
of a night and then he’d really
have to go and see the
sergeant.”
Nick smiled with great con-
descension.
“I don’t think you need
worry about that,” he said.
It was an opinion O’Shaun-
nesy reinforced the following
day when he paused at the shed
to replenish a weeping radiator.
“Losing any more fowls?”
Nick asked. O'Shaunnesy
chuckled a denial and belched
softly. Nick raised an eyebrow.
“You know, a few years of
decent cooking would make the
world of difference to that
stomach of yours,” he said.
O’Shaunnesy chuckled again.
“Anti-acid powder’s cheap,”
he announced pointedly.
Nick nodded an acknowledg-
ment. “Did you get your
pillows back?” he asked.
O’Shaunnesy meticulously
measured the water-level of his
radiator.
“Well, not exactly,” he said
at last.
Nick examined the tip of a
metal drill with great delibera-
tion and thoroughness.
“That’s a pity,” he said
slowly; “they were good
pillows those. It’s a shame you
couldn’t have kept them.”
O’Shaunnesy palmed fine-cut
and stuck a cigarette-paper to
his bottom lip.
“Well, I wouldn't go so far
as to say I won’t be getting
some use out of them now and
then,” he declared with a pro-
digious wink at Nick.
Nick rolled the drill on to
the bench.
“Haven’t you damn’ kids got
anything better to do than
hang around the shed all day?”
he demanded.
sat on the bridge at the
” bottom of the cutting,
our thoughts finding disputed
passage around the edge of an
infinite wisdom and acceptance
that was adult knowledge.
The questions of Nick in the
shed holding hints of false
query, the mention of anti-acid
powder, the huge wink of
O’Shaunnesy and the secret
understanding that passed with
it to Nick touched at our minds.
“But she’s old,” Gilly said at
last.
“She is, too,” I said.
“She must be nearly thirty-
five if she’s a day,’’ Gilly
decided, plunging with sudden
recklessness. ‘.‘She's terribly
old.”
He cast prodigally near an
upthrust snag, hooked it, and
plunged his rod into the water,
winding it downwards until the
hook came free. He crossed to
the other side of the bridge,
away from the uselessness of
disturbed water.
“I didn’t know people fooled
around like that when they were
old,” he said.
“Me neither,” 1 agreed.
Gilly cast again with greater
caution and reached for a pipe
of banana-leaf.
“I didn’t think,” he went on
relentlessly, as he scratched a
match on the rough-adzed
decking, “that schoolteachers
fooled around at all.”
“Neither did I,” I said.
Gilly puffed absently. It was
a long time before he spoke
again.
“They reckon,” he murmured,
“that we don’t have any more
women teachers after this year.
They reckon, from now on,
until we leave school, we only
have men teachers.”
He explored his pocket for
a worm of richer appeal and
withdrew his line from the
water.
“I’m glad we only have men
teachers from now on,” he said
a little later, as he eyed the
winking cork below him. “I'm
glad Miss Enfield isn’t teach-
ing us next year.”


irmJ
MBA
H
A Unique and Beautiful Gift . . .
For Son, Grandson or Young Friend
Ideal Birthday Gift or School Prize
TREASURE ISLAND
By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
Profuse with Atmospheric Illustrations—with Ten Plates in Colour.
Illustrated by Australian Artist, "William Bustard. With Typographical
Elegance produced by Skilled Pressmen, Sewn and Bound into Gold-Tooled
Covers.
and its Companion Volume
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By DANIEL DEFOE
Produced in the same exciting style as “TREASURE ISLAND”—
completing a fine Pair of Volumes—a constant Joy to the young
hook lover.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
Printers and Publishers
304 QUEEN STREET :: BRISBANE
Obtainable at all Good Book Stores
Size 12£ in. x 10 in.
Price £2/2/-
Fer Volume
V
in Burma: “Many years later and after
the war the mildewed pages were
unearthed and returned.” Written in
these circumstances and so close to
the events, the book has something of
the heat and intensity of battles upon
it, and something of their confusion.
The reader will miss the selection of
facts and the suppression of incidentals
which make for easy reading—and also
tend to turn a nightmare into a noble
dream , . .
For which reason a book such as
this brings the fall of Singapore much
closer to the reader; the diary of shifts
of the clearing-station on Johore and
then, after eviction of the Air Force,
to a school on Singapore Island (Bukit
Panjang) in all of which the inadequate
maps preserve the air of war-time
uncertainty; the multitude of names
(many Newcastle names. Dr. Hamilton
being a Newcastle man) flying like
beetles out of the night into the glaring
lights of the operating-theatre, and
away again into the darkness. There
is a Colonel Kent Hughes agreeing to
help some movement of the hospital;
and Lieut.-Colonel (“Black Jack”)
Galleghan dropping in for lunch at
Bukit Panjang—“a very happy affair,
the presence of the nurses adding gaiety
to the chatter that swept in pleasant
waves round the table.” Those same
nurses a little before, in this diary,
have been shown at work in a tent-
hospital on the Johore Peninsula, and
are now famous: —
Staff-Nurse Gardham, a fine girl
whom the Chief Matron in Hobart
had thought “perhaps too nervous
for a casualty clearing-station,”
passed us with an armful of clean
linen. She was lighting the muddy
path from the store-tent with a
hurricane-lamp. [Dead, says the
epilogue, in a Sumatran prison-
camp.]
In the corner, beyond the arc of
brilliant light, lay a third patient
with Sister Farmaner in attendance.
[Sisters Balfour-Ogilvie, Wilmott and
Farmaner, says the epilogue, were
shot at Radji Beach on February 21,
1942,]
“Has your patient had his opera-
tion yet, Sister?” I asked.
“Just completed, sir,” she replied.
“I’m awaiting the bearers who will
take him to the ward.”
I nodded. “Where is Sister
Kinsella? I want her to met Colonel
O'Dwyer.”
She pointed to the short canvas
tunnel leading into the steriliser-
tent.... Sister Kinsella was loading
a hypodermic syringe. [Miss Kin-
sella, Matron of the casualty clearing-
station, says the epilogue, was last
seen floating on a raft. She is said
to have given her place in a life-
boat to a nurse who could not
swim.]
Dr. Hamilton’s eye for detail grows
sharpest in the chapter on the last
days of Singapore:—
Getting out of the Cathay sky-
scraper. .. .was much more difficult
than getting in. A stream of perspir-
ing humanity surged up and down
the narrow stairs or eased through
the tortuous corridors. Timid
family-groups, Chinese and Indian,
squatted round islets of baggage. .. .
In shadowed corners Chinese
wantons lay in the close embrace of
amorous Australian stragglers.. : ..
Alongside them wounded men lay
on stretchers that had been dumped
down in any available space, while
the bearers fought their way upstairs
to locate the wards of the newly-
installed hospital. Well-dressed
officers, making their way up to the
palatial flats above, stepped carefully
over the legs of tired soldiers from
the convalescent depot.
Then there is the extraordinary story
of the six medical officers at the
Gillman Hospital, waiting to receive
the Japanese, who were bound while
a Japanese lieutenant took off his
tunic, rolled up his sleeves and
unsheathed his sword, evidently pre-
paring to behead them, when they were
reprieved by the news of the British
surrender—but why try to interest the
public in a book which is assured of,
literally, an army of readers?


Poetry in 1957
Hal Porter’s own poetry is cynical
and full of what one might politely
term esoteric imagery or, impolitely,
bric-a-brac; and, long inured to the
unconscious personal predilections of
all critics and editors, this reviewer
notes with no surprise that Australian
Poetry, 1957 (Angus and Robertson),
edited by Hal Porter, has also become
cynical and esoteric.
On the first page there is Kenneth
Slessor’s savage epigram on General
on the last there is Lex
Banning’s delightfully cynical epigram
on his mistress’s bed. And in the first
seven pages—showing, perhaps, how
far Australian poetry has advanced
from the simple nationalism of the
Jindyworobaks or, alternatively, show-
ing how far it has regressed to the
junk-shop imagery of Bernard O’Dowd
—we find references to Picasso,
GEdipus, denarii, peacock-feathers and
the Tower of London.
Another characteristic of the year is
the number of new writers, or new-
comers to the anthology, Hal Porter
has discovered; and how many of them
—no doubt because the form is suitable
for satire—are writing in quatrains: a
form which can be fluent, as in
Randolph Stow’s poem, but which is
too often the most elementary kind of
mechanics.
There is some good writing amongst
the satirical and esoteric poems. There
are a few other poems that stand out
for their freshness, such as Stow’s “The
Recluse,” Rosemary Dobson’s “De la
Mare,” Evan Jones’s “Epithalamium”
(the short one), Nan McDonald’s
extract from “The Lighthouse.” Peter
Hopegood’s odd little “Heeler,”
William Hart-Smith’s “El Dorado,”
with its sudden, corrosive force, and
Chris Wallace-Crabbe’s “Love Poem,”
which was very well received around
the town when it first appeared in “The
Bulletin.”
But on the whole it seems to have
been far from a vintage year in
Australian poetry.
Partly, this impression may be due to
Hal Porter’s editorship: omissions such
as those of Judith Wright and Max;
Harris; the lack of balance that results
when, for example, he includes only
one of a set of country lyrics by David
Campbell against as many as three
satirical or esoteric poems by some of
his discoveries.
But, beyond these lapses of editor-
ship, it remains true that Australian
poetry has been marking-time for the
year; or possibly changing direction.
When you get quite good things, as in
Sylvia Lawson’s crisp and amusing
“Trader’s Return” and “House in
Macleay Street” and John Thompson’s
“To the Interior,” they appear, on
second thoughts, essentially to have
been done before-—in these instances
by Judith Wright, Slessor and Francis
Webb.
But the change of direction, due to
the temporary quiescence of such estab-
lished writers as Fitz Gerald and
Judith Wright, may be more apparent
than real; and if a change is to come
it is more likely to be effective in a
poetry of life such as Sylvia Lawson’s
than in academic quatrains.
The anthology remains both readable
and valuable; but what it needs to
revitalise it in future years is more
work on a major scale, such as it has
had in the best years of the past. There
are disadvantages in printing long
poems and extracts from long poems,
and also in representing any one
writer by a substantial group of poems;
but if the anthology dwindles into a
collection of minor lyrics and satires
it will lose both its force and its right
to its present title.
Stive ns Fantasies
Dal Stivens has collected another set
of his prose-fantasies, The Scholarly
Mouse and Other Tales (Angus and
Robertson). Stivens is rather an
intellectual than a comic fantasist:
there is more comedy, for instance, in
that little realist Australian classic of
his, “My Father Sleeps All the Time,”
with which he equalled at least one
phase of Lawson, than in any of these
fantasies.
But the best of them are very well
invented: the shadow that left its master
because it wanted a quiet life; the
talking-dog which supersedes other
talking-dogs by becoming a ventrilo-
quist; and the magic cricket-bat; and
there is more depth and some real
charm in “The Pepper-Tree,” about
the father who had been used to a big
backyard, and “A Very Brazen
Widow,” a horse-owner who manipu-
lated horses to get her man.
Stivens probably still has his best
book to write, and now that he has
returned to Australia he may write it.
Seen through the glass of these later
stories, the earlier pieces, those of “The
Tramp” collection, in the uncom-
promisingly precise and realist style
of the ’thirties, seem to have had a
more convincing kind of fantasy about
them. This devolved from the selection
of the curious, the awkward incident
from everyday life, from the tight and
almost poetic definition of the prose,
and the play of ideas derived from
Freudian psychology, in itself perhaps
the most fantastic and poetic develop-
ment of this century.
The style, as a fashion, petered-out,
and Stivens himself seems to have
grown tired of it; but one looks back
on it these days with a certain nostalgia
and wonders whether, with a little more
experience to give it depth and solidity,
something more might be developed
from it.
Howyergoan'mate?
As a novel, They’re a Weird Mob, by
Nino Culotta (Ure Smith), is little
more than a peg to hang comic dialect
upon; its incidents (getting a job as
a builder’s-laborer, meeting a girl at
Manly and living in a tent while they
build their house) are as stereotyped as
the “Paul and Mary” English-language
lessons for New Australians on the
A.B.C.
But the deadpan humor is really
funny, and the dialect happens to be
Australian dialect as seen by a New
Australian. The book itself, and the
cover, suggest a mystery about the
author. He is, they suggest, a big.
fair Italian who has been in Australia
only one or two years, but his name
is not Culotta.
One does not like to add to
meretricious mysteries, and it is merely
to avoid being a sucker that one men-
tions that this, the best collection of
contemporaiy Australian colloquialism
one has seen, seems much too detailed,
and has far too true a sense of Aus-
tralian intonation, to be the work of
a migrant who has been in Australia
for so short a time. On the other hand,
the new arrival, especially the foreigner,
may be more likely to notice sounds
and ideas Australians take for
granted:—
Pat said, “Y’ orter eat ut instead
o’ rubbin’ ut on yer ’ands. Then yer
wouldn’t be so skinny.”
“Who, me? I ain’t skinny. Just
in good nick, that’s all.”
“Couple more nicks an’ y’d be a
pipe-cleaner.”
Or, the Italian having explained thtf
preparation of spaghetti:—
“Don’t mind the twenty minutes,
but I’m not waitin’ three bloody days.
A man’s gut would be Hoggin’ his
back. Can’t yer knock up somethin’
quicker?” . . .
Or the Italian ringing to answer an
advertisement:—
“Is it Joe who advertises for a
builder’s-laborer? ”
“Oh. Yes. Just a minute, I’ll get
him.”
I heard her footsteps and then her
voice calling, “Joe! It’s fer you.”
Heavier footsteps approached, and
a man’s voice said, “Who is ut?”
“Some dingbat after that job.”
And there is one short conglomera-
tion of words which seems to give the
author particular pleasure; he rings it
through the book with the unnoticeable
regularity of daily church-bells:—
“Howyergoin’mate orright?”
W'ep’s drawings make an admirable
supplement to this much-more- and
much-less-than novel.


A customer named Churchill
IK
m
C>
*A whole new concept . .
No. 5 of a series The story of BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Oil.
Black, gleaming oil.
Out with the coal and in with the oil.
Oil for the furnaces of destroyers, cruisers, battle-
cruisers and battleships.
Oil to drive them faster . . . further, with a single
bunkering.
A whole new concept of naval supremacy all based
on oil.
That was the policy laid down by the First Lord of the
British Admiralty in 1911.
Three years later the Royal Navy was at war; a modern,
oil-fired navy destined and equipped to play a vital role
in the achievement of ultimate Allied victory in 1918.
The far-seeing First Lord was a young man called
Winston Churchill.
The oil was from Abadan.
H.M.’s Royal Navy, with its grim, grey ships, was the
newly operating refinery’s first big customer.
It was with just this strategic necessity in mind that the
37-year old Churchill had urgently influenced the British
Government to become a partner in the young commercial
enterprise formed to develop Middle East oil resources
located in 1908 by the enterprise of William Knox
D’Arcy, using his personal fortune won from the gold
reefs of Queensland’s Mount Morgan, a fortune which
he successfully gambled on the promise of oil in Persia.
By 1917 D’Arcy had passed on but his living memorial is
the modern British Petroleum Company Limited, parent
company of BP Australia Limited.
Truly it can be said that thanks to the enterprise and
courage of D’Arcy ...
w
m
m
lUi
V-
mm
■
i
ii
■>
began here!
BP AUSTRALIA LIMITED
: . .. >y. • ,' N . */ -. ... v -;- . -■ / .. ■,
formerly THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD
5/C5BO
