

1
M,
e :
SOLERO
SWEET OR DR
The Bulletin
CHRISTMAS NUMBER
Wednesday, December 11, 1957
Price 1/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
BARONIAL MAGNIFICENCE
EXPRESSED IN MARBLE:
PENRHYN CASTLE
THE great castle of Penrhyn, which stands near
A Bangor* between the mountains of North
Wales and the sea. is one of the most remarkable
baronial mansions in Britain and is now in the
care of the National 1 rust. Its fame is due not
to its history or traditions., but because it is a
monumental curiosity, resulting from the Gothic
revival of the 19th century.
Between 1820 and the end of the century there
was a wide demand for the revival of medievalism
in art. literature, and especially architecture.
Although for a time this was manifest mainly in
church architecture, it soon spread to domestic
and public buildings until almost every type of
structure was affected b\ its influence.
When Richard Pennant became Baron Penrhyn
in the 18th century he inherited an estate that
was in a ruinous condition. He decided, therefore,
to build a castle in the Norman style which would
be unrivalled in North Wales for its magnificence.
The site chosen was that of an earlier mansion
which itself stood on ground once occupied by
a Welsh Ring of the Blh century. The old tower,
the only part of (he previous building which
suggested its feudal origins, was retained and
completely enclosed in the new castle, which took
nearly twenty years to complete. Thomas Hopper
was the architect.
The interior of Penrhyn gives an impression
of feudal magnificence that is. rare even in
genuinely ancient castles. Its great hall is modelled
on the nave of Durham Cathedral, and visitors
are impressed by the wealth of meticulous and
superbly -executed detail which is a feature of this
great castle, and which is evident in this vieyv
of the castle dining room.
One of the historic relics to be seen by visitors
to Penrhyn is the old Hirlas drinking-horn which
belonged to the adventurous owner of the earlier
castle in Elizabethan days. As a test of manhood
the horn had to be drained at one tip and blown
immediately afterwards as proof that the emptying
process had been well and truly completed.
No. 378: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTBR, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—fiction,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
TWO GREAT SOLDIERS
C. E. W. Bean’s newest book Two
Men I Knew (Angus and Robertson)
embodying studies of Major-General
William Bridges and Lieut.-General
Cyril Brudenell White is so good that
it seems a shame that military
historians and general readers alike
have been denied access to the material
in it for so long.
The men of whom he writes can
be quite justly termed the real
founders of the Australian Imperial
Force and of the modern Australian
military tradition; this though they
themselves would probably have
questioned the judgment.
Both Bridges and White were made
for the job by temperament and train-
ing, but, save in military interest and
a mutual studiousness, they had
little in common. Bridges sprang
from a naval family. He was born at
Greenock, Scotland, where his father
was on R.N. service, and it was a
strange fate which ultimately made him
the first commandant at Duntroon,
since his mother was a granddaughter
of Charles Throsby, the explorer who
first reached the Murrumbidgee—in
what is now Federal Capital Territory
—in April, 1821.
Trained for the Army at Kingston
Military Academy in Canada, a tall,
thin student with loqg legs and
a slight stoop, he did not play
games, but spent “most of his spare
time reading in the smoke-room”
during term and most of his holidays
exploring and learning the art of
canoeing. He matured along the same
lines to become, in his prime as a
leader of division, a tall, thin,
professorlike figure, with greying
moustache, very high forehead and
steely eyes, who went off with medical
and professorial friends from Mel-
bourne University to dare the rapids
of the Snowy and even less hospitable
rivers around the fringes of the
Southern Alps in Australia.
Both he and White had it in common
that they came of good officer families
whose heads were ruined. Each began
as a civilian —Bridges, forced to
abandon for a time his military ambi-
tions, to work as a clerk in the New
South Wales Roads and Bridges
Department, rising to be a district
inspector at twenty-four; White as a
Queensland poverty-ridden bank-clerk.
Bridges eventually got himself into
the New South Wales Permanent
Artillery, became Chief Inspector of
Gunnery, rode with French in South
Africa as a Major of Artillery and
gradually ripened, through experience
in war and in peace, alternately in
Australia and in tours of duty in
Europe, till fate sent him the making
of the A.I.F. as his supreme task.
His life ended on Gallipoli before he
had full time to prove himself, and
Bean repeats the judgment which he
gave in the Australian “Official
History”:—
Bridges’s habit of exposing himself
to danger had made it from the first
unlikely that he would survive many
months of fighting. Had he done so
it is probaMe he would have emerged
the greatest of Australia’s soldiers,
as he was certainly the most pro-
found of her military students. His
powerful mind and great knowledge
were supported by outstanding
moral and physical courage, and
also by a ruthless driving force, rare
in students. Only in Haig and
Allenby did the Australians [in that
war] meet any commander whose
forcefulness equalled that of Bridges.
For White, whose tragic death
changed the history of the Australian
military organisation of World War
11, Bean has an even greater admira-
tion, and certainly a greater affection.
His view of him seems less detached,
and it is also somewhat less informed
about White’s earlier period of military
development than it might have been
had the author gained his pre-war
military - journalistic experience in
Queensland instead of in the southern
capitals.
Queensland was a military compart-
ment in itself, a retreat for retired
British officers, in which almost every-
body over a certain age in the civil
service or in Parliamentary life
seemed to be a field-officer out of
Kipling. Though White was a Queens-
land boy, he spoke the idiom of Irish
cavalry messes, and was, in fact, when
he became C.O.S. to the A.I.F. and
Bridges’s chief planning officer, a British
officer rather than an Australian —save
for his Australian patriotism.
Personally, he was the most likeable
of all Australian generals, the most
equable, if one of the most clear
thinking and determined. He was big
enough to ride above faction to the end
of his life —a man, as Bishop Long
said of him, “the biggest Australia
ever reared ... a man fit to be a king.”
He lived long enough to be recalled
into service from civilian life in World
War II and to take on once more the
major responsibility of planning Aus-
tralian defence to meet a new threat.
He died on service in an aeroplane
accident at Canberra, still in the full
vigor of his powers.
Bean gives a moving picture of his
qualities of mind and charm and
pronounces him “the greatest man I
o Continued on page 74)
CHRISTMAS BOOK SELECTION
A selection from Australian
books reviewed on the Red Page
this year:—
Fiction
The Wicked and the Fair, by
Henrietta Drake - Brockman;
Brigalow, by R. S. Porteous;
Outbreak of Love, by Martin
Boyd; The Bystander, by
Randolph Stow; How’s Andy
Going, by Alan Marshall.
Biography
Two Men I Knew, by C. E. W.
Bean; One Man War, by Hal
Richardson; William Morris
Hughes, by Farmer Whyte.
General
Hillendiana, by Donald Friend;
Yulengor, by Wilbur Chaseling;
The Architecture of Victorian
Sydney, by Morton Herman;
Courage and Other Broadcasts,
by Sir William Slim; Below These
Hills, by Ernest G. Moll.
Drama
Summer of the Seventeenth
Doll, by Ray Lawler.
Poetry
Act One, by Randolph Stow;
The. Hexagon, by Hal Porter;
Apocalypse in Springtime, by
Lex Banning; Elegiac, by
Leonard Mann.
Anthologies
Old Bush Songs, edited by
Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing; Australian Poetry, 1956,
edited by A. A. Phillips; New
Land New Language, edited by
Judith Wright; Coast to Coast,
1956, edited by Henrietta Drake-
Brockman.
Reprints
Poems, by Kenneth Slessor;
Poems, 1940-55, by Ernest G.
Moll; Selected Poems of Henry
Kendall, edited by T. Inglis
Moore; The Sentimental Bloke,
by C. J. Dennis; The Rainbow
Bird, by Vance Palmer.


TWO HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPIONS
READY FOR ROADWORK!
3
111!
INTERNATIONAL ASC-162
CAB FORWARD MODEL
WITH STOCK-CRATE BODY
This International ASC-162 brings all the advantages of cab-
forward design to stock carrying : greater manoeuvrability—
better utilization of space. On tough jobs where more exact
weight distribution between the axles is a factor—the ASC-162
is your truck. Its profit-making potential is further enhanced by
increased front axle capacity and higher gross vehicle weight. The
International ASC-162 retains the invaluable two-speed electric
shift axle.
EASY ENGINE ACCESSIBILITY *
Raise the bonnet of the International
ASC-162. Note the easy access to engine
and engine accessories. All engine service
points are well within reach to simplify
maintenance and cut service time.
INTERNATIONAL AS-162
SEMI-TRAILER MODEL
A PROFITABLE TIMBER CARRIER
From radiata-pine to redgum, from
bridging pillars Ti> telegraph posts,
your timber transport costs will stay
down with the big International
AS-162 at work. The Eaton 2-speed
axle is regular equipment on the
AS-162. This axle’s electric-shift
switch mounted on the gear lever pro-
vides finger-tip selection whether for
a low-low steep uphill haul or high-
ratio speeds for ideal conditions or
running empty.
m
■
m
m
If there’s roadwork to be done, put yourself in the championship class with the-international ASC-162 and AS-162.
Powered with great-hearted Australian Black Diamond Engines these mighty trucks have the pulling power to go
ANY distance. Their “comfo-vision” cabs provide far more comfort and better visibility than the trucks you used to
operate and—-MOST important of all—they are built FOR truckmen who will not compromise with “beefed up”
passenger car design. If you are looking for more profitable stock or timber hauling, the International ASC-162
and AS-162 trucks are ready to do your roadwork NOW !
m
See your International Harvester Dealer
INTERNATIONAL HEA VYDUTY TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
V ’ • FMT.767/36


The Bulletin
Wednesday, Dec. 11, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4061
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone: BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathatt’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
SUICIDAL TENDENCIES
THE defeat of the banking bills in
the Senate opens the way for the first
steps to a double-dissolution and a
general election at which for the
second time in nine years the banking
system would be the crucial issue.
The defeat was achieved with the
help of the Democratic Labor 'party
Senators, who were professedly ready
to let the bills pass, but were anxious
to use them as a bargaining-point to
show their own power as a determina-
tive minority holding the balance of
power. They have offered to support
the measures if the Government will
agree to allow the Reserve Bank to
“determine the volume and direction
of credit throughout Australia,” to
bring hire-purchase companies under
the same control as the private banks
—which would be a difficult and
intricate thing to do—enable the
Commonwealth Bank to engage in
hire-purchase at reasonable rates,
“remove the power of the private banks
to restrain the Commonwealth Bank’s
development” and give assurances that
adequate funds will be available for
the Development Bank’s work. This
is nearly all window-dressing advocacy,
and the Government shows no inclina-
tion to accept amendments, especially
some which might prove dangerous to
the effectiveness of the whole of its
banking legislation in the hands of a
future Labor Government.
Obviously it was only too ready to
allow the fourteen bills to be quickly
rejected, since it granted the ailing
Senator Arnold a pair on every vote.
This leaves the way clear for the
resubmission of the whole batch to the
House of Representatives in the session
which begins on February 25 next. The
real challenge will then come, and it
will be seen whether the Labor party
is in earnest or whether its war against
the bills is merely an old-style Chinese
war —all noise and no substance.
On whether the Opposition pushes
to a logical conclusion its alleged
determination to see that they are not
passed will depend the date of the next
general election; for final defeat would \
be a challenge which the Government
could scarcely ignore and continue in
office till the normal time of the poll.
Its attitude will also indicate how far
Labor is in the clutches of the extreme
Left, the only section in politics
implacably opposed to the legislation.
Unless Dr. Evatt and his shadow-
Cabinet have gone completely out of
their senses they can scarcely contem-
plate an election on a double-
dissolution and on such an issue,
unless under duress.
They would have to fight, probably
at short notice, not later than the
spring of 1958 and in months which
have proved advantageous in recent
elections to the Government. They
have numerous sick men in their ranks
whose position would have to be
seriously considered. Their financial
position is not over-opulent and their
finances are subject to all sorts of
embarrassing provisos- by both Left
and Right supporters.
They must be fully aware that in a
contest on the banking issue the Liberal
and Country parties will attract ample
support from threatened institutions
and those who have reason to fear
Socialisation through the nationalisa-
tion of banking. They must also know
from experience that breweries and
manufacturers who normally would
give them support will think twice, as
in 1949, before backing Athem on such
an issue. And, moreover, there are
features both of their own policy and
of the bills 'themselves which would
make it very awkward for them on
the platform.
The implications of the Petrov
commission findings have yet to receive
a proper airing in an election campaign,
and Labor candidates will find them-
selves in a trap through their total
opposition to the bills at issue in view
of the fact that by opposing them in
toto they are in fact opposing several
features which they have themselves
advocated—for instance, the provision
of means whereby the Commonwealth
Savings Bank can directly finance
housing at a low rate of interest at up
to 90 per cent, of value. Their rejec-
tion of that innovation will take a lot
of explaining.
Altogether, their position at the
polls will be unenviable. Their policy
in international affairs leaves them
odd-man-out not only with the Liberals
and C.P. but with every other Labor
party in the world which is not tied
to the Communists, and these latter
hang round their leader’s neck with a“
loving embrace, saving his words like
pearls and weaving them into the
texture of their propaganda with
meticulous reverence, almost as if
they were the words of Khrushchev
himself. Indeed, the name of Evatt
now appears in the “Tribune,” the
N. S. Wales official organ of the Reds,
far more often than those qf the leaders
of the Communist party.
The electoral position is not happy
in Federal Labor-held seats. The
flight of the leader from his own
Barton electorate to a safe seat is a
negation of everything that the party
has held to be democracy.
The deliberate raising of the
sectarian issue since last election seems
bound to have created a new hostile
religious .vote, however much the
Roman Catholic Church itself may be
anxious to stand apart.
The caves in the party, even though
their members may lose their official
Labor endorsements, will only create
fresh problems of opposition. The
division in the party in Queensland
will assure that Labor, never very
successful in Federal polls in that
State even with the help of the late
unlamented Labor State Government,
will go to an election looking very
much like a cat-fight passing noisily
down the road—the pattern of the
prototype State election-campaign.
And if Wagga by-election is a
shadow cast before, N. S. Wales will
not be in a much better condition.
Everywhere within the creaking
structure of careerism which is called
by some the A.L.P. and by some the
United Front in N. S. Wales, the glint
of long knives can be seen in political
dark corners. /
The Senate position from Labor’s
point of view must be affected by the
intrusion of the D.L.P. into the contest
in most States. And in marginal
Lower House Labor seatsr the break-
away party could be more than a
nuisance, and might even win a few
electorates, including especially Barton,,
deserted by Dr. Evatt. whom it is
representing as afraid to face its leader,
Mr. Manning.
If Manning should win there, that
would have more disastrous implica-
tions and affect Evatt’s prestige to a
greater degree than if the official
Labor man were beaten by a Liberal.
Altogether, it can be understood jn
the circumstances of chaos which exist
on the Opposition side that the Gov-
ernment need not fear a double-
dissolution and- early election on the
banking issue. Indeed, its members
are probably devoting their Christmas-
tide prayers to the hope that Messrs.
Evatt, Ward and Calwell will continue
headlong on their present course to
destruction.
Opposition members, in effect, are
acting so much to the advantage of
the Government and so far saving it
from its own internal party difficulties
that they are almost due to come
under suspicion that they have
developed suicidal tendencies.




PLAIN ENGLISH
Chaos via Communism
As far ago as March Indonesian Presi-
dent Soekarno turned his back on the
democracy which he and his follows had
used as a bait to win world support for
their campaign on independence.
His measures were marked. by an
Asiatic subtlety. He admitted that
democracy was failing because of lack of
literacy in the population and while the
Constitution enjoined him to maintain
democratic party government he pro-
posed to “bury all parties” —which was
another way of saying that he would
bury all opponents of his own policies.
In order to make sure of this he
established martial law, which has been in
force intermittently and is in force now.
The Communist party shows no sign of
burial. It loomed larger and closer to the
President in his policies as soon as he
announced his new plans.
Contemporaneously with the announce-
ment of these plans arose the fanning of
the agitation for the taking-over of West
New Guinea. In official Indonesian
propaganda, it is made to appear that
this seizure is the irresistible desire of
every Indonesian, whereas the only real
agitation seems to come (a) from the
Government, (b) from the Communists.
The current proceedings have a
remarkable resemblance to the proceed-
ings of Nasser in Egypt. The Indonesian
Government has stressed to U.N. the
danger of war because it is inclined to
make war if the free world does not yield
to it. Indonesia, it must be stressed, is
under martial law, so that the President
and his Government are in a position to
suppress lawlessness and rapine by the
most drastic means. Without moving a
finger, however, they allowed Communist
mobs to take over the huge Dutch
properties which were still to function in
Indonesia and hoist the red flag over
them. In fact, the Soekarno Govern-
ment inferred brazenly that it was none
of its business, since the seizures had not
been made officially, but by mob fury.
Then it calmly took over the properties
from the mob and began illegally and
brutally to expel the unfortunate Dutch,
some of whom come of families rooted
in the soil for hundreds of years and
know no other real native land.
In parts of Indonesia the military
command has refused to support these
lawless procedures.
The enthusiastic intrusion of Red
China to support the demand for West
New Guinea fits into the general pattern
and is similar to the intrusion of Bulganin
and Khrushchev at a parallel juncture in
the Suez business. It is also a timely
reminder that Red China is not the
.innocent detached nation friendly to the
West that people would have us believe.
The technique of the seizure of the
Dutch properties is exactly like the
“volunteer” technique by- which China
went into the Korean war.
First it was represented that hundreds
of thousands of Chinese peasants burn-
ing with indignation at South Korean
aggression left their farms willy nilly to
walk to the -front and join the North
Koreans —as if any peasant in a Com-
munist State could leave his work with-
out official backing even to go to the
backyard. Then the volunteers turned up
as an officially equipped army of a million,
complete with artillery divisions and
ancillaries, and with a huge publicity
set-up carefully organised to divert
attention from this strange fact by the
launching of a world propaganda
campaign which was released on such a
scale that it must have been in prepara-
tion before the war began. It accused
, the Western Allies of the use of torture,
chemical warfare and other horrors.
The present moves have as background
the strategic plan of the Communist bloc,
which aims to surround South-east Asia
and cut it off from Western approach
and defence. It is being extended by the
appeal of its waterside unions to the
Communist-led Australian watersiders,
who had a great deal to do with the
planning of the Communist front in
Indonesia, to create a world blockade
of Dutch shipping. The aim is to ruin
Dutch trade if the Netherlands govern-
ment will not yield to Soekarno’s demands
to release the West Papuans into the
grip of a regime which is just now
r governing Indonesia by martial law and
which has existing chaos throughout most
of its so-called nation.
The seizure of the huge Dutch
properties and shipping and other
companies in Indonesia will plunge that
country into further chaos, perhaps into
economic ruin. But that is just what the
organisers, in whose power Soekarno
seems to be, desire.
Out of chaos Communism and
Moscow-control are born.
Mirage over Melbourne
Although the Victorian Cabinet (with
complacent glances northward) has in
recent years produced numerous big
industrial projects in Victoria, chiefly
financed by overseas interests, they have
been almost matched by the number of
new schemes to roof the lolimont
railway-yards that have come (o a quiet,
dusty end within a few months.
The current Cabinet is not, of course,
the first to bite the Jolimont dust; that
has been the universal fate of a score of
planners since J. A. Smith, a Melbourne
engineer and the first modern protagonist
of the scheme to roof the yards, prof-
fered a plan in 1926 to carry out the job
piecemeal to get 80 more acres of city,
four miles more of frontages and solve
The Traffic Problem of 1926.
First hope of the Bolte' Government
was for American dollars which didn’t
materialise, and in August, 1956, a
British group of capitalists was given a
six-months’ option on the site. The
Britons gradually faded out, unnamed to
the end, and then a group of Chinese
millionaires from Sumatra and Hong
Kong was given an option.
These rich Orientals, also anonymous,
proposed to put up a 45-storyoffice-
tower rising to 430 ft. above street-level,
surrounded by gardens, parking areas for
more than 2000 cars and a heliport for
12 helicopters—all for £4 million, so it
must be presumed they intended to bring
their own skilled coolie labor with them.
The Chinese millionaires having faded
out of the picture in their golden slippers,
Cabinet last week came up with the an-
nouncement of a new option, to a syndi-
cate of Australian businessmen, also
unidentified, and the impulse of Mel-
burnians was to give six hearty Australian
cheers.
Watch Renshaw!
Down south at the Wagga by-election
N.S.W. Local Government Minister
Renshaw is organising the forces of the
Cahill Labor Government party. Mr.
Renshaw is a smooth operator in this
and other matters.
In the central west, around the
Orange area, shire ratepayers are
damning Mr. Renshaw and all his
Socialistic works.
For Mr. Renshaw is one of the Labor
boys who have done so much to take
the “local” out of local-government.
He was behind the move which reopened
the ancient Blayney abattoir, though six
Out of the nin6 rural councils at first
approached decided against it. This
resistance was overcome by the simple
device of dropping-off four of the less-
important dissentients and carrying the
proposal, in respect of a smaller “county”
scheme, by three to two (the two objectors
being Orange and Bathurst). By a process
of “squeeze” the other dissenting
councils are expected to fall, one by one,
into a scheme that was never wanted by
the majority of ratepayers or meat-
consumers in any of the districts.
The Orange municipal council at the
present time is having financial problems.
It isn’t to blame for all of them. But
the drought has found it out in many
respects. Its water-supply is failing. It
has spent a lot of money on an “Olympic”
pool that at present won’t hold water,
and can’t be supplied with water in any
case. In desperation it is now talking of
a £600,000 dam in Suma Park.
Orange has spent money heavily in
recent years on a number of social
amenities, but it is still without an air-
port. Nevertheless, it already has a
town combined municipal rate of 14.4 d.
in the £. About 28 p.c. of next year’s
rate-revenue will go towards repayment
of loans and time-payment debts.
To help itself out of its problem it
wants to take ’over the best parts of the
adjoining Canobolas shire. (It might as
well offer to take over the lot, because
the remainder of the shire couldn’t exist
without the Mt. Canobolas foothills.)
But at a public meeting in Orange, the
biggest ever held in the city, 876 rate-
payers of both locaLgovernment areas
were vocally indignant about the pro-
posal, and a former mayor of Orange
said that during his period of office it
was determined that the present Orange
municipal area was big enough to support
a population of 30,000, against the
present 18,000.
All this may seem, at first view, a


little remote from Mr. Renshaw, down in
Wagga touring round in a Ministerial car
engaged in Labor-party politics.
But whatever the motive of the Orange
municipality itself in wanting to appro-
priate portion of the Canobolas shire
and its rateable capacity, the outstanding
fact is that it all fits in with Mr.
Renshaw’s policy of wanting to replace
local-government by large regional
bodies which will eventually become
mere registering-machinery for the policy
of the Labor Government in Sydney.
Wherever local-government is in diffi-
culties, the State Government exploits
the situation for its own purposes.
Its taking-away of electricity-distribu-
tion from some municipalities has
weakened their financial position, and
they become ripe for “amalgamation.”
Even where councils have been offered
interest-free loans by ratepayers to finance
specific projects (such as tar-sealing the
Cargo Road, in Orange, or reticulating
electricity), Mr. Renshaw’s department
has vetoed acceptance of such offers.
Apparently the local public spirit which
should be the essence of local-govern-
ment is frowned on by Labor doctrinaires
who desire to annihilate local-government
as it has always been understood.
The rural population offers the chief
resistance to Socialism in any country.
The Cahill-Renshaw policy of large
regional councils would stifle rural resist-
ance to Socialism. By means of
proportional-representation voting, other
voting devices and amalgamation of
shires Mr. Renshaw is pressing on with
the Socialist programme, and at the
moment drought and economic adversity
are playing into his hands. And com-
munities like the Canobolas shire can
be taken-over without any reference
by plebiscite to the wishes of the
Canobolas community.
Mr. Renshaw follows in the wake of
trouble in municipal affairs. So the
advice of many residents of the Orange
district to the voters of Wagga at the
present time is “Watch Renshaw!” The
Bulletin has watched Mr. Renshaw for
some time, as Minister for Lands and
Minister for Local Government, and has
adjudged him to be a smooth political
operator who requires continued
watching.
Wheat for Japan
[From Canberra]
Trade discussions were one of the major
items on the agenda during the talks
between Japanese Prime Minister Kishi
and Australian Ministers, but the roles
were somewhat reversed, with the Aus-
tralian authorities blushing through
“losing face” over fulfilling our comjnit-
ments to Japan under the trade-treaty.
One of the major Australian exports to
Japan in the future was to have been
about 200,000 bushels of wheat a year.
Australia fought hard for this market, as
the United States had for years found it
profitable to “dump” soft wheat in Japan
and other Asian countries to the detriment
of Australian exports.
This year, however, it is estimated that
the exportable surplus to Japan will be
only 80,000 bushels —a far cry from the
expected 400,000 bushels which it was
hoped to send there next year.
Soul-searching going on in Government
quarters has pointed to the advice given
to wheatgrowers over the last few seasons
by the Wheat Board not to overplant.
Ministers are wondering whether this
advice, which ran counter to that given by
the late N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture,
Eddie Graham, was really the best.
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics
has assessed the movement in costs of
wheat-production, and its findings have
been reviewed by the Wheat Index Com-
mittee, consisting of representatives of
the Australian Agricultural Council, the
Australian Wheat Growers’ Federation
and the Director of the Bureau.
The basic home-consumption whole-
sale price under the Wheat Industry
Stabilisation Act will, therefore, become
14s. 2d. a bushel bulk f.o.r. ports, plus
2d. a bushel to meet the costs of ship-
ment of wheat to Tasmania.
Phones for S.-p.
Judge Stafford’s remark in Melbourne
General; Appeal Sessions that he was
amazed that telephone-mechanics could
instal four phones in a backyard bunga-
low, and his comment that they should
have queried the connections, draw
attention to something that continues
to be countenanced by the P.M.G.
Among the recent discoveries by
gaming police were two telephones con-
nected to an underground pillbox, with
concrete 6in. thick, constructed under
a Balaclava kitchen ; a network of 46
telephones in a St. Kilda block of flats,
and 15 in an upstairs fortress in a city
office-building.
These were notable examples of tele-
phones which must have raised a query in
the minds of reasonable men in the
department at a time when, as the judge
says, legal businesses have to struggle for
them.
In September last year it was an-
nounced the P.M.G.’s department would
co-operate in the drive against s.-p.
bookmakers, and this seems to have been
effective, for a few months at least, in
Brisbane, but cases continue to turn up
in Melbourne of small houses where s.-p.
betting is conducted over three or four
telephones. One young operator within
six months of his first conviction for the
offence was discovered betting again with
a new telephone.
The kindly co-operation between the
P.M.G. and the s.-p. merchants needs
official explanation, but it cannot be
denied that the public, and most judges,
apparently, don’t share the genteel horror
of Melbourne magistrates towards the
illegal bookmaker.
Polls on various aspects of s.-p. betting
in Victoria have never shown in recent
years a lesser percentage than three to
one of interviewees in favor of licensing
s.-p. in some form or other.
At the same time, public complacency
should not be used to support official
winking at the successful conniving for
telephones at the expense of the man
engaged in a bread-and-butter business.
Siege in the Suburbs
Drought up the country and bushfires
in the mountains make the woes of Sydney
gardeners a comparatively small matter ;
yet anyone who has ever grown a tomato
and watched it fall over with the wilt or
be sucked to death by shield-bugs, any-
one who has tended a lettuce from a
seedling, sheltering it from the hot sun,
watering it, feeding it delicately on
poultry-manure till at last it burgeons,
round and crisp, just when lettuces are so
cheap that it isn’t worth growing anyhow,
and above all anyone who has cultivated
his own soul and helped to adorn Sydney
with the hibiscus, the camellia, the
rhododendron and the azalea must shed
a furtive tear for the present plight of
the suburbs.
Hounded, prosecuted and reviled by
the famous No-water Board, which
does nothing but put their rates
up and then forbid them to use
the water they’re paying for —
and which, whatever its excuses, might
at least learn to be polite instead of so
gleefully telling them to “roll up their
hoses”—the gardeners from Brighton-
le-Sands to Pymble stand at bay, and the
spectacle is woeful to contemplate.
Perhaps the most touching (and in-
genious) device which they have adopted
to save their shrubs is that of the
upturned beer-bottle. You fill a beer-
bottle with water —carefully disposing of
the original contents elsewhere —up-end
it and thrust it into the earth beside your
camellia; and drop by drop the water
oozes its way down to the roots. It gives
a singularly bawdy appearance to many
of the respectable gardens of the North
Shore. In fact, they look like beer-
gardens.
But the really dramatic sight, every
evening and all the weekend, is the
bucket-brigade: the newlyweds 'and the
aged retired couples, the family-groups
who form a chain as if they are quench-
ing the great fire of London, all staggering
with buckets and shiny new watering-
cans from tap to shrub, from tap to shrub
. . . and the people who put a great drum
of water on the lawn and slosh, it about
from a jam-tin with holes in the bottom ;
and the scoundrel in every suburb who
pretends to be filling a bucket from the
hose or tap, but lets the water run on and
on, into the bucket and over the brim
to the lawn ; and those others, darkest
and deadliest of all, who are to be spotted
over the fence at midnight, sneaking
round the backyard with a hose running
ever so softly.
The regulations must be obeyed, no
doubt; or soon people will have nothing
left to water their gardens with but their
tears —and, perhaps, the bathwater. But
a garden is a lovesome thing, God wot,
and that is more than anybody is prepared
to say of the Water Board.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
GENERALLY, when a police-sergeant
retires, he buys a pub, but the
demand for pubs must now exceed the
supply, because an ex-sergeant of my
acquaintance has had to find an outlet
for his talents as Santa Claus in a Bris-
bane store. So you’d need to be careful
what you asked for in that store, though
I suppose you’d have to grow up beyond
believing in Father Christmas before
you’d want anything he could lumber you
for. —“Roni.”
❖ ❖ ***
“0.W.W.”: “I’m glad I don’t know
anyone cultured,” a cobber confided to
me, “because when I want a bit of peace
and quiet there’s always one place where
I can safely dodge my friends—the public
library.” *,
>:«
x “Ballyhoo” \ In our street on a place
called Wilson’s Hill there are widows
in seven adjoining houses.
»j.
“Lionel”: y I often wonder if W. M.
Hughes (B. 6/11/’57) was as deaf as is
generally thought. There were times when
pressure of business made him typically
irritable. When he was Attorney-General
in the Lyons Government certain
members of his staff responded, in his
presence, in similar strain—that, of course,
was provided his hearing-aid was not
adjusted. A very competent typist was
having lunch at her desk when W.M.H.,
less hearing-aid and moving like a whirl-
wind, rustled over all the papers near her
typewriter and made off with a file. As
he came out and leaned over her desk for
“Come on , Eve. I know where there's a beaut orchard."
a second attack, she looked levelly at him
and said, “You irritating man, please go
to hell! ” He returned her gaze, retorted:
“Aah-Aah! Yes! Yes! You will be there
before me!” and bolted back into his
sanctum sanctorum.
❖ ❖
“Jock”: Saw the driver of a bus at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) pull up at a stop, hop
down, lodge an application for a lottery-
ticket at “Lucky Jack’s,” then drive off.*
Don’t know what the syndicate-name was,
but it could have been Tempus fugit.
*!♦ *J«
“Tom Trout” : In the inconsequential
surprise class: passing through the
Welsh village of Laugharne I dropped in
for a beer at Brown’s Hotel where Dylan
Thomas used to dally, full of sad thoughts
of the poet’s passing, and cast an eye
around for possible mementoes. There
was nothing I could recognise . . . except
a framed photograph of a ship passing
under Sydney Harbor Bridge!
“Wusslean”: “At no extra cost” is a
catchline that’s catching on in the
advertising game. The variety of things
that reputedly cost nothing is really amaz-
ing : the air we breathe, a mysterious, un-
pronounceable compound mixed with
your petrol, love, grated nut sprinkled on
your ice-cream, advice, an extra pair of
trousers with your ready-made suit, and
a kind word —especially a kind word.
♦♦♦
“Maitri”: It’s a pity the qne heavy
downpour we’ve had up our way co-
incided with the church garden-party,
attended by an archbishop, several
bishops, other clergy of all degree and ■
laymen and lay-women galore. During
one heavy shower two women and I
were hemmed-in on all sides by holy
orders seeking protection in a kiosk. One
of the dames eyed the cloudburst and the
sopping, helpless hierarchy; then gave
tongue: “It’s enough to make you lose
the bit of faith you’ve got!”
❖ ❖
“B. A. Ker”: “Tom Trout” might find
out about the source of “shout” (B.
20/11 / ’57) in E. Cobham Brewer’s Dic-
tionary of Phrase and Fable, under
“Shot”:
Shot. “Hand out your shot or Down
with your shot” —your reckoning or quota,
your money (Saxon, sceat; Dutch* schot).
“As the fund of our pleasure, let us each
pay shot” —Ben Jonson.
Would it be overstretching the point
to suggest that “shot,” blotto
profundo, derives from the same source?
“P.0.M.C.”: “Shout” may be Aus-
tralian slang (B. 20/11/ ’57), but it is
merely synonymous of “call,” which goes
back through literature for several cen-
turies: it seems to have been both polite
and propitious to “call” (or “shout”) for
drinks, the caller always paying.
FIRE
The fire could have been turned by a
thought of wind
And was. The leaves settling about us.
ceased
So that beating what no longer
increased
Staved change more apt for who had
deeper sinned.
It seemed no fiat with the thing done
large,
When covenant of generation, name,
Was confronted by sixty feet of flame
That seared and turned to leave the
house like a barge
In some black, derelict swamp which
but for tang
And settling clicks, might have softly
vapored dew
To a primeval dawn on Some world
that grew '
Before the impact of our own day
rang.
That change, full omen-strong, like a
vast hand
Swept to utter recession the short tide
Of our wealth; in empty reaches of
pride
Sent swirling through the gaunt strength
of a land.
Victoria.
Noel Macainsh.


“Mac Hoots”: I am delighted to see
that M. H. Ellis has written a book called
The Torch on the noble subject of
Legacy ; but what on earth does he mean
by this extraordinary paragraph on
page 82?:
The Mac Hoots family was not a
pleasant one to visit at the end of the day ;
but the visit had to be made some time.
The MacHootses are a pair of shabby little
people who live in a broken-down cottage
behind a patched fence. They seem neither
to toil nor spin and they appear to be
allergic to both soap and hard work. There
is always a slight odor of gin in the air
about them.
It just shows you the absolute lies that
get into the most responsible histories ;
and if Mr. Ellis cares to drop in again
one day for a cup of gin 1 can prove to
him that the fence is not patched. It
fell down long ago.
♦> ♦> ♦>
“Nunk”: Shocked by Sydney gar-
deners’ joy over dealing with the
prevention-of-hoses regulation by filling
relays of buckets with water from hoses
so that the hose doesn’t have to be turned-
off while no one can say you are watering
your garden with it,, I said to one of
them: “How, with this quibble, can you
silence your conscience as a member of
the thirsty public?” He looked me over
sadly: “You got a garden?” he asked.
“No,” I said. “Well. . .!” he said.
❖ ❖ ❖
“P.0.M.C.”: The theme of a film show-
ing in Sydney hangs directly on the theory
that nobody ever looks at the face of a
nun. Though not of the faith to which
the majority of nuns are ordained, I have
particularly noticed in trains, trams,
buses and on the streets that nearly all
men make way or give up their seats for,
nod deferentially to or smile at (some
doffing their hats), or in some way quietly
display respect for, the person and habit
of a nun. Do they invariably do this
with averted eyes? I don’t think so.
Children search nuns’ faces. As for me,
since boyhood J have observed that most
(even elderly) nuns have beautiful eyes
(possibly emphasised by the cowl), lovely
complexions and firm mouths. Their
-brows are rarely wrinkled ; their expres-
sions almost always serene. And some,
these days, use the suspicion of make-up.
You don’t notice things like that about a
woman looking at her feet.
❖ * ♦:*
“Nitor”: Surely “get” and “got” are
the two most overworked words in
English. I’m tired of hearing of people
who “get” up, “get” their bath, and “get”
dressed, while the lady of the house
“gets” the breakfast. Then they “get” out
their coat, “get” to the tram, "get” on
and “get” into a conversation with their
neighbor. They “get” to town and “get”
to the office, where they "get” caught up
in a whirl because the other fellow has
“got” sick. Couldn’t we get rid of get and
got? 1 was trying it out on a friend, and
he said, “Well, you've got something
there.”
*l* .*♦
“Pip Tok”: Juveniles in our street
weren’t long Jinking our 1957 Christmas
stamp-issue with the news. Overheard an
eight-year-old stamp-collector next door
explaining to his young sister that the
child depicted on the stamp, looking
towards the Star of Bethlehem with hands
clasped in prayer, was praying for the
safety of the Doggie in the Satellite.
*I« *t« ♦>
“Kenyas”: Neighbors along the street
have two daughters so much alike that
I’m never sure which is which. One was
married a couple of years back and is
now a proud mamma ; the other (accord-
ing to my womenfolk’s gossip) was all set
for the matrimonial plunge. Passing their
gate last Saturday, 1 saw the daughter I
thought was the married one about to
drive off with her husband in a well-
laden car. Genial-like, I remarked on
the weather and asked a question they
didn't answer. In fact, they looked con-
fused. I found when J reached home that
it was the other girl I’d seen in the car
and the bloke was the one she’d married
that morning. They were on the point of
leaving for their honeymoon, and I’d
asked them: “How’s the baby?”
3
A 4 „ 4 4V
‘ *
“W.P.T.*: There seem to be more TV-
aerials in the poorer industrial areas of
Sydney than in the better-class suburbs,
Stiangest site 1 ve seen was ovei a railway-
lettler’s tent,
***
„ . . .
, Jodwy . As advertised in Brisbane
“Courier-Mail”:
Flattette, wagette, to lady to service
residential. Child taken.
Shouldn’t it be “childette ?
* .5. *
„ that
awning-posts must be removed from
footpaths 'in the main street. Under
jj£eat e° f on^boffi°sides h o? l a W corner on a
frontage on both sides of a a
forest of posts supporting its three tiers
oi balconies, lemoved the balconies in
t f to ’ an<^. p > lt , Br J. lles ac '° ss the French-
ors which had opened on to them.
Then the Licensing Court fined the pub-
hcan £SO for making major structural
aUeratjons without | rst obtaining the
court’s permission,
* *> *
u A , „ m 9n/n
* with which ministers can
from some
, „ • jfi reca n s a narSf vn-friend
graduate of Oxford and London who
a ? an American women’s
(he called it a girls’ school) after
college (he called it a girls school), after


which some half-dozen young ladies
stalked on to the dais and presented him
with a huge scroll which turned out to
be a diploma making him a doctor of
divinity of their institution. More
sensible than some others I could name,
he never used the title until it was con-
ferred on him by Princeton. I wonder
why the doctorate of philosophy is so
frequently bestowed on people with only
a nodding-acquaintance with Plato?
The grandson of the clergyman I’ve men-
tioned is a scientist, and when last year
he was appointed to an Australian univer-
sity his Alma Mater in England honored
him with a doctorate, not in science, but
in philosophy.
♦♦♦ . ♦>
“P.0.M.C.”: Unusual, a cove who
really didn’t know what day it was (B.
27 /11 / ’57), but during my 'prentice-days
I worked under a chief engineer who
never knew what time it was. He was
dinkum, too —in fact, stopping me out-
“I will —within reason !”
side the boiler-house around 10 a.m., he
asked me in all seriousness—he lived in
one of the company’s cottages on the
property —if he was going to, or coming
from, lunch! *
»J« I »J *!♦
“L. 8.5.”: According to an N.Z. daily a
taxpayer, asked his length of residence
in the country, replied: “Forty-two feet,
including the veranda.”
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Bo”: The cove a few seats along in
the d.c. was dodging to port and star-
board of the woman who had parked
immediately in front of him, and whose
hair-do had come down in a direct line
from Pompadour. At last he could stand
the strain no longer. “Madam,” he said
politely, “would you mind putting your
hat on?”
❖ ❖ ❖
“W.J.S.”: During the Senate Sales-
tax debate (27 /11 / ’57) listeners to 2BL
were treated to a dissertation on the
taxation-methods of Diocletian, Justinian,
the Goths and Ostrogoths, the high cost
of chain-mail in medieval times and the
economic' difficulties preceding the
French Revolution. It was not surpris-
ing to hear a Senator bellowing in the
background: “Wot about Captain
Cook?”
♦♦♦ <♦
“Lorna Doone": The credit-manager
was having some difficulty with a pixilated
lady-customer. He patiently explained
that further credit would not be forth-
coming until she paid her overdue
accounts. She said she had no money,
so he demanded the return of her credit-
plates. Throwing an empty envelope at
him she said that she had given them
to “a man.” Asked the man's name, she
said: “Why should I tell you the name of
my sugar-daddy?” The exasperated
manager said, “Well, if you won't tell me
his name will you spell it?” “Oh, yes,”
she complied. “I’ll do that . . . S-m-i-t-h!”
♦> *> ♦>
“C.H.R.”: The solicitor’s story: He
was consulted by a man who had lent £5
to a partly-drunken man and could not
get repayment because the debtor denied
all knowledge of it. The solicitor advised
the client to lend him another £5, but to
get it in writing with a fixed date for
repayment. The client thought little of
the advice, but followed it, and on the
date sdt got the debtor’s cheque. Mysti-
fied, he saw the solicitor again, to learn
he had got his first £5, and held a written
promise to repay £5 that day. He col-
lected but lent nothing further.
“Roomy”: Scene: the record-depart-
ment of the music store ; the two elderly
fashion-plates met at the counter, each
bearing her selection. “Hallo,” one
greeted the other, “what have you got?
A Beethoven symphony? Goodness, I’d
no idea you went for classical stuff!”
“Oh, I don’t,” was the answer. “It’s just
that I get sick of the radio blaring all
day, and yet I’d go crazy without some
noise in the house! ”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“M’Lou”: A friend’s emerald-green
fingernail (B. 6/11/ ’57) was certainly
arresting, but she explained that her
doctor had prescribed this green paint to
clear-up an infection which was rotting
away her nail.
♦> * A
“Geep”: I think that my friends at
times handle the truth father casually.
Like Stan, who tells of his fascination
for a multi-tone fountain-pen being used
in spasms by a fellow-passenger seated
beside him in a crowded nomeward-bound
tram. Stan found the colorful pen in his
own top pocket when he arrived home,
placed there, he surmises, by the absent-
minded owner.
ASTRAL GUARANTEE
“From Dec. 10 to 18 those born under Leo
may safely take domestic risks.” —Astrological
blurb.
Too long have you followed
Her dictates, and swallowed
The conjugal pill;
To kick-over traces
(Like holding four aces)
Can give you a thrill!
A rare one, this chance is,
So blunt all her lances,
Riposte every thrust!
Go into it, blaring ;
Resolve to be daring,
To do it, or bust!
Tell her that cosmeti&s
Offend your (esthetics —
Forbid her their use;
Give laugh loud and grating
Upon Madame s stating
She means to reduce.
It's safe, at this season
To tell her the reason
That you’re indigent
Invariably just be-
Fore pay-day comes, must be
Her bad management.
What odds' if this may sting?
Ask how she’s been wasting
Her time while you work ;
Say her old man’s a toper,
Her Ma a no-hoper,
Her brother a jerk.
She can’t turn and sock you,
Of beer-money block you,
Or bounce home to Ma ;
You’re protected by forces
Of stars in their courses —
Well, let’s hope you are !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Love me, and Never Leave me
Words and Tune by
RONALD McCUAIG
Allegretto
Arranged by
ADRIAN WINTLE


POLITICAL POINTS
Promise and fulfilment! N.Z. electors
who were eagerly preparing to tear up
their income-tax bills and spend the
money for Christmas, as exhorted to do
in pre-election Labor advertisements,
have been warned by Labor Prime
Minister Nash that “no good citizen
should ever tear up a tax-demand.”
Under the law, he says, “the tax is due
and should be paid. When the law is
changed . . . the money will be refunded.”
But that won’t be till February. In the
meantime what are Mr. Nash’s good citi-
zens to do about their Christmas
presents? Probably the answer is that
they’ll buy ’em, preferring to take the
advice of the Mr. Nash who wasn’t
Prime Minister rather than of the Mr.
Nash who is.
• •
New Zealanders will have to
wait a while for the rest of_
Nash’s election bribes. The 50
per cent, increase in child-endowment
and the three per cent, housing loans will'
be left on the shelf for the time being.
Nash says these weren’t promised for
immediate application, but within his
party’s three-year terrrf of office.
• •
\
Queensland Treasurer Hiley will be
getting himself sacked from the Amal-
gamated Union of State and Federal
Treasurers if he makes a habit of speak-
ing as he did at the Queensland Tax-
payers’ Association’s annual dinner. He
said that Australia had come perilously
close to the breaking-point in taxation
and that Governments had been too
“hungry” in recent years and were,trying
to squeeze too much from the taxpayers.
The man even went on to say that he was
undertaking “a sweeping revision of the
whole field of taxation” in his State,
which might lead to the abolition of
some taxes.
• •
Bolte has announced polling-dates for
elections for the Victorian Assembly and
Legislative Council —May 31 and June 21
respectively. His Government, which has
been in office since June 7, 1955, came to
power in the election which followed
the big split in the Labor-party. The
L.C.P. has only a small majority in the
Assembly and has to rely on the support
of the Country-party in the Council, but
for all that it will be the only post-war
Victorian Government to have lasted a
full three-year term.
• •
Reasons given by Bolte for not having
the same polling-day for both Houses are
that some voters might have to vote at
different booths, that the Electoral Act
would have to be amended to permit
simultaneous elections and that some
electors would be confused. But he also
admits that “An important factor will be
that by the time the Council elections are
held, voters will know which party is the
Government.”
• •
Only one of Melbourne City
quite numerous activities, which once
were almost all solvent, made a profit in
its latest financial year—parking fees and
fines, which turned-in £316,000. It
seems likely to be a steady revenue-
producer in perpetuity. It would be
difficult to turn a fees-and-fines depart-
ment into a loser, but you never .know
what a Government or municipality can
do.
• •
A proposal to establish a large-scale
fertiliser industry at Rockhampton, utilis-
ing as raw material the huge supply of
pyrites at Mt. Morgan, is being examined
by the Mt. Morgan mining company.
The idea was suggested in a paper read
to the Australasian Mining and Metal-
lurgy Institute by C. E. Gregory, Acting
Professor in Mining and Metallurgy at
the University of Queensland. He
thought the Federal Government might
be persuaded to grant a long-term loan
for the purpose, on the lines of a similar
project in South Australia which produces
sulphuric acid from pyrites. The mining
co., however, is looking for private
capital. It thinks the sugar industry may
be interested, as it would be the chief
customer for the fertiliser.
• •
Accident figures in Victoria suggest
that the fewer the cars the greater the
risk: for the eight months to the end of
September five people were killed in
Melbourne, 162 in the suburbs and 235
in the country.
Simultaneously released in Parliament
with the police figures was a report by
the Public Accounts Committee urging
a change in the differential insurance-rates
between country and city because the
country accident-rate was growing more
rapidly than the metropolitan. Neither
the committee nor the police mentioned
the significant fact that, in general, speeds
are higher it* the country.
• •
The great republic of Cuba, which is
always ready to join other U.N.
nations of the same magnitude in teaching
Australia and the U.K. the principles of
democracy, is still in the throes of its
year-old revolution which even the
appearance of rebels hung on trees by
the roadside cannot quell. The rebels
were one-up last week when they shot
to death in a public street a Government
commander nicknamed “El Coyote.” He
himself had machine-gunned 17 of the
unarmed “insurgents” by their own fire-
side some months earlier.
Some estimates of the waste on Vic-
torian Government cars range as high as
£2 million a year, and' Bolte has now
explained what Cabinet is doing to
check it: “We recently bought two older
model cars to help keep car costs down.”
(In other words, they’re still buying cars.)
“The Government is also doing what it
can towards trading old cars in before
they become an expense.” (In other
words, they’re still buying cars.) All this
seems to boil down to saying they’re
not travelling de luxe Rolls Royce in
future, but just plain, hard Rolls Royce.
• •
“G. Elburg”: After the turbulent
hooliganism of the Federal Opposition
in seeking to impede the passing of the
banking bills and its depressing dis-
closure of lack of elementary knowledge
of the subject it was refreshing to listen
to the orderly and informed debate on
University finance and functions. The
Prime Minister’s admirable introductory
speech was followed, in tone at least, by
speakers on both sides of the House.
Notably—and happily—the member
. for East Sydney and his henchman, the
member for Hindmarsh, did not inter-
vene, nor was the cultured voice of the
member for Kingsford Smith heard. In
short, it was a debate by well-mannered
and reasonably well-informed members
of the national Parliament. There is,
sadly, all too little of this.
• •
On the understanding that the Build-
ing Workers’ Industrial Union agrees not
to take part in illegal strikes and will
prevent its members from doing so, will
not sanction black bans and go-slow
campaigns, but will condemn them ; and
that it will ensure that its officers don’t
enter or inspect jobs without permission,
the N. S. Wales Industrial Court
rescinded the cancellation of the registra-
tion of the union. On the face of it this
is a defeat for the Red-controlled
8.W.1.U., but on past history it is more
likely to be merely a tactical withdrawal.
• •
“Wusslean”: Victorian home-owners,
whose rights have been so much invaded
in recent years that only the bold or
unthinking calls his house his castle nowa-
days, have been greatly heartened by two
decisions of the State Building Regula-
tions Committee. They now have the
legal right to build car-ports, enclosed on
two sides if they wish. The decision, long
opposed by municipalities on the ground
of fire-risk, brings Victoria into line with
building conditions in most parts of the
world, the committee holding that fire-
risk was negligible, and that ports
could be built against houses and
boundaries without fireproof walls.
The other decision nipped in the bud
council proposals for a fee for every TV-
aerial erected. The councils claimed TV-
aerials could be dangerous and should all
be inspected: the committee scoffed at
their fears, and insisted that fees be paid
only on aerials with unsupported lengths
of more than 15ft.


S’Artie Fadden is reported to have said
that if the banking legislation is passed
next session he will probably retire from
politics at the end of the present Parlia-
ment. Labor is understood to be holding
out for a better offer.
• •
Petrol’s down a penny—but for how
long?
• •
With several Right - wing sitting
members allegedly due for the axe, the
ballots for A.L.P. preselection for
N.S.W. Federal seats were the most
bitterly contested for a long time. Daly
(Grayndler), Stewart (Lang), Minogue
(West Sydney) and Morgan (Reid) were
the four whose position was thought to
be most in jeopardy. All but the last-
named managed to survive the challenge.
Daly and Stewart had decisive wins,
but Minogue’s fate was in doubt till late
in the count , his opponent, Con Wallace,
a member of the State executive and
currently a favorite "son of the Evatt
faction, ran him close in every branch,
but not quite close enough. C. A.
Morgan, who has been quite outspoken
in his criticism of the Doc., was beaten
by T. Uren.
Morgan was first elected for the Reid
seat in 1940, was defeated by J. T. Lang
in 1946, but regained his place (after the
redistribution of boundaries) in 1949.
• •
Khrushchev is accusing America of
pinching the rocket-casing of Sputnik I
—a kind of larceny by finding. If Ike
really has the thing he should offer to
trade it in for an unused one.
• •
Saturday’s Wagga by-election will be
decided on preferences and throughout
the fight much of the effort of the cam-
paign directors has been concentrated on
trying to decide it in advance by swing-
ing preferences towards their own man.
Labor early announced it ,was placing
the D.L.P. candidate second on its how-
to-vote card. This a sprat to catch a
mackerel, as obviously the A.L.P. did not
expect its man to be eliminated before
the final count, so there was no likelihood
of his preferences being distributed. On
the other hand, if the D.L.P. reciprocated,
its preferences could give Labor the seat.
The D.L.P., however, refused to play ;
it announced it was putting Labor last
on the card. It then proclaimed that it
was prepared to exchange preferences
with either the Libs, or the Country-party
provided they agreed to certain proposals
—most of which were already the joint
policy of the two parties. Neither party
accepted the offer ; despite their current
private squabble they had agreed to swap
preferences.
• •
The three Independents were accused of
hawking their preferences around among
the other parties. This they indignantly
denied, countercharging that they had
received cash offers for their prefs., but
would bestow them where their mentor,
Clive Evatt, advised. Ultimately they
announced that the Country-party man
would be their heir.
- • •
After considering the handicaps, the
form-card for the Preference Stakes reads
something like this:
Cook (Independent): Should poll best of
the three freelances and will collect the pre-
ferences of the other two, but this will
probably still leave him trailing all the
party-candidates.
O'Donoghue (Independent): In for the
ride.
Skeers (Independent): Ditto.
Kennedy (D.L.P.): His trainers have been
active in the district. Will probably fade- _/
out before the straight. His only chance
would he for Cook and Co. to attract
sufficient primaries from official Labor to
enable him to get his nose in front of
Graham. He might then come home on
Graham’s preferences.
Lampe (Country-party): Well-placed for
preferences, provided the right candidates
are eliminated in the right order. Could,
however, be wiped-out himself before the
D.L.P. man, in which case his preferences
would probably send the Liberal to the
front.
Fife (Liberal): Has run the course twice
before and could take the lead from the
start. After that his fate depends on the
order in which the other starters fall.
Graham (A.L.P.): Will be jostled by all
the other runners. Must lead all the way
if he wants to win. Once he’s headed
he’s had it.
• •
The boycotting of the KiShi luncheon
by 12 Labor M.P.s was a petty gesture
indicative of immaturity of mind in
international affairs. It was supposed to
be a protest against what the Japs did to
our p.-0.-w. during the war. On the
Government side of the House five men
who learnt quite a lot about Jap p.-0.-w.
camps from the inside attended the
function. This does not mean that they
have forgotten the sufferings of their
comrades. It means that they recognise
that this country can no more afford to
live in the past than it can base a lasting
policy on hate.
• •
If Eleanor Roosevelt accepts the
Bedouin chief’s reported invitation to
become his fortieth wife the Kremlin
may counter this obvious triumph for
the Eisenhower Doctrine by offering
Nina Ponomareva to King Saud.
• •
A police-surgeon told a Melbourne
court that it was almost as dangerous to
drive a car without sleep as to drive it
under the influence of alcohol. Next
thing someone will be starting an
Insomniacs Anonymous.
• •
U.N. Trusteeship Council goes on its
merry way calling on nations admini-
stering dependent territories to estimate
the dates by which they expect those
territories to attain self-government or
independence. Yet all around it are
disquieting signs that some of the world’s
new nations have been launched into
independence too soon.
• •
Well-satisfied with the results and pros-
pective results from the “Sell Victoria”
-mission to the United States, seven Mel-
bourne businessmen will set out next year
on a similar crusade to Britain. They’re
cashing-in on a fact Americans have
accepted for a generation—that as soon
as you travel you’re news, and if seven
of you travel together you add up to
important newspaper-space.
A CHRISTMAS PUDDING NOBODY WANTS


THE SEVEN RIVERS
By DOUGLAS STEWART
BETWEEN Eltham, where
we lived in New Zealand,
and Opunake twenty-four
miles away on the coast,
seven clear rivers tumbled
from the mountain to tfye sea.
Their names were a tangle
of Maori polysyllables, wild as
the ferns and blackberries that
clung to their yellow clay
banks, sweet as the water that
bubbled over their stones: the
Waingongoro, the Mangatoki,
the Kapuni, the Kaupokonui,
the Tangatara, Mangahume
and Waiau . . . whose names
Are five sweet symphonies,
Cecily, Gertrude, Magdalen,
Margaret and Rosalys.
They were all trout-streams,
and it would have been hard
indeed to have lived in that
country and not to become a
fisherman ; though a few lost
souls, such as my father and
his brother Geordie (when he
was over staying with us from
Australia) contented themselves
with cricket in Taumata Park,
and, as these great men did
one memorable day, made 56
not-out (my father) and 60
(Geordie) —my uncle further
distinguishing himself by hitting
a historic “six,” clean out of
the cricket-ground, high over
the road and into the yard of
the dairy-factory.
But those of us who knew
better fished: Fred Vincent the
jeweller, my uncle Maurice
Fitz Gerald the county
engineer, Caleb Maslin the
carrier, Sam Pepperill the
joiner and undertaker, Bert
Thomas from the garage,
George Batchelor, who worked
for Peebles the grocer, Harold
Williams the county inspector, .
who had the inestimable
advantage of being able to
take his rod with him when
he went to look for blackberry
and ragwort, Pip Connell,
whose father was an artist and
photographer and did some
excellent pastels of the moun-
tain : a fine, democratic
fraternity among whom, and '
all the rest who fished, I never
knew a scoundrel except for
one dreadful youth whom the
day before the season opened,
while I was exploring the
Waingongoro to spot whfre a
fish might lie, I caught sneak-
ing with his rod over the very
water I intended to fish next
morning.
If ever there was a poacher
who aroused my indignation it
was that awful boy ; and the
worst of it was that he was too
well - connected in Eltham,
where everybody knew every-
body, for anything to be done
about him. The other, perhaps
more serious poachers, farm-
hands who were rumored to
prowl the Waingongoro by
night with torch and three-
pronged spear and who were
sometimes stalked over the
dark countryside by Constable
Townsend, seemed too far-off,
too heroic and romantic for
complaint. If they speared any
fish on those wild expeditions
they deserved them.
I fished the seven rivers
sometimes with the county
inspector—because I was then
working for the Eltham
“Argus” and could get
away early in the after-
noon, as soon as we had
gone to press, to join him while
he the farms for
noxious weeds —mostly. with
Fin Maslin, the carrier’s son, a
short, stocky, humorous youth
as he was then, black-haired
and black-eyed, in whose com-
pany, as the world first burst
upon us like a great rushing
river full of girls, trout, hares,
wild pigs and bottles of
Speight’s beer, I explored a
variety of waters. And good
fishing in all of them, too.
But the streams, the streams,
the seven clear rivers from
Eltham to Opunake, they were
the haunts where, whatever
the entertainments of Saturday
night, we paid our devotions
on Sunday.
Those were the .heroic days
when to be up before the dawn,
leaping out of bed to the
clangor of the alarm-clock in
my cherished private bedroom
where the rock-wallaby-skin
rug from Kawau Island, the
rabbit-skins from the Waikato
and the goat-skin from Moeroa
bore witness to other great
expeditions, seemed the most
natural thing in the world. Of
course you must be on the
water before sunrise! —it was
then that the, trout took the
worm most freely: and the
worm, I confess with all proper
shame, was our favorite bait
in those days.
Up in the dark house where
the family still slept; cooking
that noble breakfast of tea and
bacon and eggs or bacon and
tomatoes; out to the garage
where the little red two-seater
Austin sports-car (appropriated
from my father the day he
bought it “for economy”) lay
waiting in faithful slumber;
backing past the coalshed and
that awkward turn round the
drainpipe; down the long
drive, past the silver-birch at
the gate, and around the dark,
silent streets to Fin Maslin’s,
where, after he had finished his
own breakfast, we dug up the
little red worms in his fowl-
yard by torchlight while the
indignant turkey-cocks cried
gobble - obble - obble, gobble -
obble-obble . . . and so we
were away, through sleeping
Eltham and over Burke’s Hill
to the seven rivers.
We had, of course, passed
the Waingongoro. It is the
habit of trout, just as the best
fish always lie out of reach
under the further bank, always
to teem most plentifully in the
rivers furthest from home ; or
it is the habit of fishermen,
maybe, to like adventure and
exploration, the lure of distant
waters, more than mere fishing.
The Waingong-
oro was our home
stream, crossed by
a bridge just out of the town
and running, at that point, not
very salubriously between the
bacon-factory and a rubbish-
dump—the things that people
do to rivers! There were fine
fish in it, both upstream and
downstream from that deplor-
able reach —indeed we, once
had a tremendous afternoon
just below the bacon-factory
—but it was reserved for brief
afternoon excursions or the
evening rise (when we had
mastered the dry-fly), not for
a whole Sunday’s adventure;
and so we left it far behind,
Illustrations by
MARGARET COEN
curling in its willows at the
foot of the near-side of Burke’s
Hill; and, through the steel-
grey glimmer of a world
neither in night nor daylight,
with the boxthorn hedges
crowding close upon the road
and tht mountain vast and
ghostly on the skyline, we made
for the Mangatoki, the Kapuni,
the Kaupokonui, the Tanga-
tara, the Mangahume or the
far and broad Waiau.
How the blackbirds and the
thrushes, English birds long
become native to Taranaki,
sang on those clear, cold morn-
ings ! —perched on the topmost
twigs of the hedges or, as once
I saw them, six or eight of
them together, singing in
chorus or competition with
each other from neighboring
stumps and fence-posts.
And how incredibly cold
must those rivers have been,
running their swift courses
from Egmont to the sea, as,
racing to put our rods together
and be first in the stream, we
plunged straight into the water


>vithout waders, nothing but
our boots and socks between
our feet and its icy tongue!
Such is the hardihood of
youth—or such the human
capacity for forgetting discom-
fort and remembering only
delight—l do not recall ever
feeling very cold in the water,
though it steamed with frost-
smoke around us; but I do
remember how gloriously the
daybreak came when the first
rays of light turned the huge
snowy shoulder of the moun-
tain a rosy pink and—one
morning in particular, on the
Tangatara— swept in shaft and
ripple of gold over a green hill-
side and the pale sand where
birds, even earlier to the water
than ourselves, had left their
three-pronged footsteps. That
must have been a great morn-
ing’s fishing, too, for I
remember that, when the sun
came over the hill, I was
frantically turning over dried
cowpats in a search for worms
—we had already run short of
bait.
I remember, too, in further
contrast to the forgotten cold,
how good it was, at about eight-
or nine-o’clock, to fish our way
back to the car—we would fish
the downstream waters first,
then later work our way up
towards the mountain—and
drink hot coffee from the
thermos. My mother used to
make for us the most superb
bacon-and-egg pies to take
fishing, and we ate great
chunks of them then for a
second breakfast.
Sometimes, on the fierce
mornings from October to
December for Taranaki’s
summer is a precarious thing ;
never really settled until
January and liable to burst in
storms and floods in February
—the dawn was a wilder
phenomenon, glaring red and
angry at us over Rawhitiroa
and Mangamingi as we glanced
back from the top of Burke’s
Hill. Then, by the time of the
second breakfast, or long
before it, we had rain and hail
and wind upon us ; and, some-
times in oilskin overcoats, but
usually without, we fished on
regardless till the rivers grew
hopelessly swollen and muddy,
when we would drive back to
Eltham and play at fishing in
the cleaner little pools of the
Town Creek.
It was on such a day—
though on that occasion (Caleb
Maslin, Fin, myself and my
brother Neil) we had gone
north of Eltham, away from
the seven rivers to a noble
stream named the Waitara —
that my brother caught his first
trout: a five-pounder, no less,
on the totally inadequate
tackle of a boy’s rod and reel
while, even as he wrestled with
it, the water darkened and
swelled round our feet, and
further fishing, by the time he
had landed it, was washed out
in rain and mud.
It was on another such day,
again just before rain ruined
the fishing, that I landed a most
interesting little trout, which,
foul-hooked in the side, fought
like another five-pounder, and
which, fat enough to seem
reasonably impressive on the
bank (it was about two-
pounds), seemed to melt on the
way home: a very pale, silvery
brown-trout, I had pulled it out
near a dairy-factory and it
must have been full of curd, a
favorite diet of Taranaki trout.
And it was on another day
of rain, though made mysteri-
ous because the storm was
falling high up on Egmont and
1 was in sunshine, that while
playing a trout, I watched the
Waingongoro swell up and
swirl with sticks and leaves
and floodwaters all in a
flash as if a tidal wave were
sweeping down it: and broke
my rod-tip in my haste to land
my fish and get out of it, and
had to walk miles beside the
wild torrent before I found a
bridge to cross back to the
car.
The wildest and wettest day
of all —or at least the one
which memory preserves most
clearly for its mixture of panic
and hilarity—was on the
Waiau. It rained, it blew, the
mountain was lost in black-
ness ; and then, white we still
clung to the last of the fishing,
such a fury of enormous hail-
stones pelted down on us that
we had to run for our lives
from them, clutching our oil-
skins over our heads as we
rushed over the wide bare
paddocks looking in vain for
shelter ; and found in the end
the most valuable and inexplic-
able hole in a clay bank, just
big enough for both of us to
put our heads in ; and, like a
pair of half-drowned ostriches,
but stretched full length on the
ground, lay with our heads in
the hole and roared with
laughter and delight while the
icy fusillade pelted down on
our backs.
But even in Taranaki it did
not always rain.
No day since the world
began ever sparkled more
freshly with sunshine than that
lovely afternoon when
Williams and I pushed our way
up the Kapuni further than I
had been up any of the streams,
until we were into the gorges of
the mountain itself; in the
secrecy of rock and fern where,
melting from the snowfields,
all the rivers first began to be
rivers ... “a savage place, as
holy and enchanted as e'er
beneath a waning moon was
haunted” . . . only it wasn't
any woman wailing for her
demon lover who haunted it
that afternoon but the bright
sunshine, bathing naked like a
naiad.
It was a wonder how sun or
naiad or fisherman or the
water itself ever got into that
gorge. The bush had closed in
upon the Kapuni, rimu, tree-
fern and stiff-leafed totara.
The colossal rock-mass of the
mountain, surging a mile into
the sky, had shut it into a
cleft so steep and narrow that
we could not skirt the pools
but must wade straight through
them, waist-deep in ice that
had only just changed into
water. Bracken, blackberry
and gorse, the weeds and scrub
that lined the banks in the
open country had changed to
ferns and moss ; and, startling
among the ferns, lay the moun-
tain’s first footprints of snow.
('Continued on page 40)


Pioneers and a Parachute
By J. B. BLAIR
IT has lately been brought to
my notice that a couple of
years ago the South Aus-
tralian Government com-
pleted the first unit of a power-
station of considerable size at
my birthplace, Port Augusta.
This station is fuelled by coal
from Leigh Creek, and is the
first major power-plant in
South Australia to use local
fuel exclusively. Its power is
led by transmission-line 200
miles to Adelaide, enabling its
sponsors to boast that it is the
farthest away from its main-
load-centre of any in Aus-
tralia and that it makes a
positive contribution to
decentralisation.
All this explains why the
South Australian Governor,
Air-Vice-Marshal Sir Robert
Early Port Augusta (1858)
George, K.C.V.0., K.8.E., C. 8.,
M.C., was asked to perform
the opening ceremony and why
a large batch of notables was
invited to attend it. It does
not explain why my name was
omitted from the list.
I am, of course, fully aware
of the impossibility of pleasing
everyone on occasions like
this. Even such a relatively
simple function as a christen-
ing party for a baby may be
the cause of quite a lot of
heartburning among those who
are not invited—and a power-
station is a whole lot bigger
than a baby. If the incident
had been an isolated one I
would be inclined to shrug it
off. After all, there are degrees
of notability, and somewhere
down the list a line has to be
drawn, and I can quite con-
ceive that, through oversight or
carelessness, my. name might
happen to be below the line.
Regrettable, but not unpardon-
able.
Unfortunately, however, the
incident is not isolated. My
home-town has passed me over
before. The spate of historical
booklets inspired by the
Commonwealth Jubilee Cele-
brations a few years ago
included one, The Story of Port
Augusta. This book gave a
very interesting account of the
founding and growth of Port
Augusta, and its authors
managed to mention most of-
the men who were prominent
in the history of the town. They
did not mention me. Nor did
they mention my father. Nor,
indeed, my grandfather.
The omission of one of us
could have been a mere over-
sight. Even the omission of
two might conceivably have
been due to nothing more
serious than gross carelessness.
But three ! Obviously there
can be no other explanation
than deliberate intent.
Why, it may be asked, should
any of us have been men-
tioned? A fair question,
deserving a fair answer!
VTYSELF, to begin with. I
was the only one of the
three to be born in the town.
Not that I claim any credit for
that —any more than the town
does. Furthermore, I left it
when I was nine years old.
But I did win the Donkey
Martin Nerve Test of 1910—
of which, more later. And,
after all, it was through me
that Port Augusta became the
taking-off place for the first
flight across Australia. And
that historic incident didn’t
even get a place in the book!
My father? Well, like myself,
he was not one to seek
notoriety, but it is only fair
to his memory to point out that
Curlew Point, now the site of
the new power-station, was one
of his favorite fishing-spots;
also that he was one of the
original owners of Leigh Creek,
the coalmine which makes the
power-station possible.
Grandfather? Jim Beatton
should be the best remembered
of the three of us, although
he died over 50 years ago. A
drinking-fountain erected to
commemorate his 30-odd years
as postmaster used to stand
near the wharf. Why a drink-
ing-fountain 1 don’t know
unless it was because the Port
had enough pubs already.
When I last saw v it the water
had been cut off and someone
had souvenired the copper
pannikins. It was then being
used as the wharfies’ picking-
up place—a singularly inappro-
priate role for a water-fountain
—but I believe it was sub-
sequently removed to one of
the parks.
It was in my grandfather’s
house that Sir Charles Todd,
of Overland Telegraph fame,
cracked (for the 74th time) his
favorite pun. “Would you like
a cup of tea, Sir Charles?”
asked my grandmother, when
the great man dropped in on
one of his periodical tours of
inspection. “Certainly, Mrs.
Beatton,” replied the disgusting
old punster ; “I’d be odd with-
out my T.” His other famous
pun he was only able to use
once. That was when the post-
master at Orroroo wrote
asking for an assistant to be
appointed. Todd quipped back,
“What d’you want an assistant
for? There’s only two letters
in your whole town.”
If long service and a
memorial fountain don’t rate
Jim Beatton a mention in the
official history I’ll throw in a
couple of anecdotes' The old
boy had some very regular
habits, and one of them was to
pop across to the Great
Northern every afternoon for a
quickie. This habit, of course,
wasn’t peculiar to my grand-
father. What made it worthy
of mention was that he always
hung a notice, “Back in 10
minutes,” door, which
—as I am talking of the
1880’s —marks him as a man
very much ahead of his time.
One day, the story goes, he
stayed at the Great Northern
a little longer than usual. When
he got back to his office he read
the notice, mumbled to him-
self “Dammit! Not back yet!”
and went ovet to the pub again.
I am aware that some people
majit say that this is an old
story and that they’ve heard it
told of other men in other
towns. To such I reply that old
yarns have a habit of drifting
around until they find suitable
characters to attach themselves
to. In Port Augusta this one
settled on Jim Beatton, and that
in itself should be proof of his
worthiness of a place in the
annals of the town.
Another institution of my
grandfather concerned the sort-
ing of the Adelaide mail. The
daily train from Adelaide
arrived about 8 p.m., and the
old chap conceived the idea of
hanging a red lantern outside
the Post Office when the mail
had been sorted. A very good
idea, too, in its way. To the
regular residents of the town
it conveyed the message:
“Adelaide mail sorted. Come
and get it!” Unfortunately, to
seamen of all nations who in
those days came to Port
Augusta in sailing-ships to pick-
up cargoes of wool and wheat
the red light had a different
message. My. aunts had many
embarrassing moments trying to
explain things to sailors who
couldn’t speak English, didn’t
want to buy postage-stamps and
were very reluctant to take “No
mail” for an answer.
CJO much for Granddad
Beatton’s claims. Now,
about my father and Curlew
Point. As a chronicler with a
strict regard for the truth, I
cannot record that he ever
pointed towards it and saidij




“That is the spot for a power-
station,” but that is probably
because it seemed so obvious to
him as to be not worth mention-
ing.
My first recollection of
Curlew Point is of the time my
father took me there in a
dinghy. We were tied-up to
a floating buoy when the
steamer Paringa came in sight.
The Paringa, which kept up a
weekly service to Adelaide, was,
I found in later years, a very
small vessel. But to my child-
hood gaze she was something
mighty—almost a Queen Mary
of her day. As she steaffifed
towards us up the channel
Dad untied the rope and began
rowing towards the Point. I
asked couldn’t we stay for a
closer look, but he just kept on
rowing. Presently the steamer
drew abreast of the buoy and
quite near to it. As her bow-
wave reached it the buoy dived
clean under, then shot up again
on its mooring-chain as the
trough of the wave took the
place of the crest.
“See what happens to people
who stay for a closer look?”
“The Liverpool of the South”: Port Augusta, 1884.
said my father—which is pro-
bably why whenever I recall the
incident I think of Lot’s wife.
My other recollection of
Curlew Point is of a bigger
party —my father, myself and
my two uncles. I don’t remem-
ber noticing the buoy on this
occasion, but there was a flagon
of beer nearly as big as one.
The ritual was for the three
men to pass it from one to the
other, each one taking a swig,
When it came to my father’s
turn on the second time round,
instead of drinking he replaced
the cork. Then he yelled out,
“Down with the cursed drink! ”
and hurled the flagon over-
board. My uncles gave a kind
of strangled groan and jumped
to their feet.
For a moment I thought they
were going to jump in after it.
But they didn’t. I leaned over
the side with them and watched
the flagon go down, down,
down. My father had moved
over to the other side of the
boat and was baiting his line
and trying to look as if he’d
never seen a flagon of beer in
his life. My uncles abused him,
using words I wasn’t supposed
to know at my age, and some
that I really didn’t. But they
weren’t looking at him. They
just didn’t seem to be able to
take their eyes off that flagon,
“Wonder how deep it is
here?” said one of them,
“About fifteen-feet,” said the
other. “Thinking of trying it?”
“Dunno,” said the first
doubtfully. Then he gave a yell,
“It’s coming up\”
So it was. Steadily, just as
it had gone down. As it
reached the surface they
grabbed it, nearly falling over-
board in doing so. \
“What’s up? Caught a fish?”
asked my father innocently,
“You swine!” they said,
“You knew all the time it’d
float.”
“Oh, the flagon,” said Dad.
“Just an idea for cooling the
beer. Pass it over, I’ll have my
swig now.”
“Like hell you will! ” said the
uncle holding the flagon. “If
you want a drink you’d better
find a pannikin. You’re not
laying hands on this flagon
again.”
TT was that day that I saw my
A first barracoota caught. The
men had been doing pretty
well with the garfish and
whiting, but after lunch one of
the uncles took a stronger line
and said he thought he’d give
the ’cootas a go.
I didn’t know what a ’coota
was. I rightly assumed it to be
another kind of fish, but
wrongly supposed it would be
about the same size as the
other fish they’d been catching,
Consequently, I wasn’t pre-
pared for the three-feet of lithe
thrashing fury that my uncle
hauled aboard a few minutes
later. But although I wasn’t
prepared I acted quickly. As
the ’coota came in at one side
of the boat I went out on the
other. Like the flagon, I went
down, down, down. I think I
touched the bottom, but I
wasn’t really interested in
details like that. My only
thought was to get away from
the murderous-looking streak
of silver lightning my uncle was
struggling with. My father
jumped in and grabbed me as I
came up.
Meanwhile, the rocking
caused by my sudden exit and
my father’s vain attempt to
stop me had upset my uncle’s
balance, and the ’coota had
managed to jerk itself off the
hook and over the side again.
I was relieved to find it gone
—its savage teeth, had terrified
me—but my uncles were both
furious.
“Y* didn’t have to jump in
after him, and rock the boat,”
one of them growled to my
father. “Y’ could’ve waited
and grabbed him as he came
up.”
“More sense if you’d jumped
in after the ’coota,” said the
other uncle.
My father didn’t say any-
thing, but for the rest of the
afternoon they kept on whinge-
ing about that ’coota, and tell-
ing him he’d rescued the wrong
one. As the day wore on with-
out another ’coota bite my
father seemed inclined tb agree
with them.
The connection between
Curlew Point, my father’s old
fishing - ground, and Leigh
Creek is that the coal from the
Creek keeps the furnaces going
in the powerhouse at the Point.
And my father, as I said, was
one of vthe original owners of
Leigh Creek coalmine. He
never went there, as far as I
know—and he didn’t own all
of it. Perhaps I should call him
a part-owner. I still have
evidence of his ownership.
It’s a scrip certificate dated
October 28, 1892, certifying that
Herbert William Blair is the
registered holder of five fully-
paid £1 shares in Leigh Creek
Coal Mine, N.L.
This certificate is an invalu-
able record. It proves that my
father had an interest in (and
faith in) Leigh Creek coal four
years before Sir Thomas Play-
ford was born. Moreover, it
establishes beyond all doubt
that immediately before
October 28, 1892, my father
must have possessed £5.
There is no evidence that this
happy state of affairs was ever
repeated.
A/TY own claims for recogni-
tion? Well, I hope that
motor-transport hasn’t meant
that the name of “Donkey”
Martin is entirely forgotten in
Port Augusta even if the ribald
rhyme linked with his name is
not nowadays chanted by
schoolboys as the wool-clip
from outlying stations goes
past the school on its way to
the wharves. In my day
“Donkey” Martin carted the
wool —or some of it —and his
20-donkey team was a familiar
sight to us as it padded along
the dusty road past Johnny
Newton’s school,
making a brisk pace
of four - miles - an
hour, refreshed after
its last stop at the
Pastoral Hotel, a
mile back along the
road.
The donkey- team
could always be sure
of an appreciative
audience for its
periodical passings
of the school. We
liked the donks, and
we liked to see (and
hear) “Donkey”
crack the long stock-
whip he used to
remind the leaders
that they were still in the team
and not merely out on a walk-
about. And some of my con-
temporaries may recall that for
a brief period we liked the team
for the opportunity it gave us
to play “nerve-tests.”
The game of “Chicken”
hadn’t been invented then but
our “nerve-tests” were a kind
of pre-motorised version of it.
All that was required was one
dusty road, two or more small
-boys and a donkey-team. The
idea was to lie down on the
road in the path of the oncom-
ing team, the winner being the
one who allowed the donkeys to
come closest to him before
scrambling to his feet and bolt-
ing for safety. It may sound
rather tame in comparison with
facing a herd of maddened
elephants, or even a single
(|Continued on page 72)


A Man's World
By JOHN MORRISON
JUST after half-past four
came the last of the
callers.
It had been going on all
the afternoon, ever since
twelve-o’clock when the news
first began to get around. Big
sums of money don’t come
often to the residents of
Tanner Street, Richmond, and
Mrs. McLean was beginning to
weary of the urgent knocking
on the front door, the more
neighborly' call at the back—
“ You there, Lil! Can I come
in?” —the excitement on well-
known faces, the constant
repetition of the story of how
she herself had taken the news
and what she was going to do
about it.
She wanted her husband
home, quietness over the special
dinner she was cooking, more
than anything else confirmation
of the fabulous telegram she’d
received just after noon.
Still, Mrs. Howe was a bit
closer than the others, and when
Mrs. McLean heard the familiar
voice at the back door, she
resigned herself cheerfully
enough to going over it all
once again. Here, anyway, was
another who wouldn’t be
butting in after Frank arrived.
Mrs. Howe was a breezy
young woman, obviously got
up for an outing that called for
the best she had. She came in
with a crisp rustle of new
clothes and more than a mere
whiff of perfume.
“Liz, is this fair dinkum?
I just got back”
The happy smile that had
sat on Mrs. McLean’s face for
four hours quickened again.
“I hope it is, Ruth.”
Her plump face flushed with
joy and the heat of the stove,
she Stood nervously fiddling
with a tea-cloth. Two children,
one only a baby, played quietly
with some new wooden build-
ing-blocks at her feet.
“What d’you mean, you hope
it is? Haven’t you got word?”
“I got a telegram from
Frank. I think it’s all right.”
“You got a telegram from
Frank-—you beaut! Can’t you
believe it, love? My God, let’s
kiss you! It might bring me
luck. I been taking tickets for
years.”
They came together for a
moment, then Mrs. Howe sat
down with the self-assurance
of one who has no doubt about
her welcome. “This is the best
I ever heard. How many’s in
it?”
“Six. Frank’ll get about one-
thousand-six-hundred pounds.”
“One-thousand-six-hundred!”
Mrs. Howe gasped, and passed
a hand across her forehead.
“Gee, say it again! No, Liz,
don’t go making tea ; I got to
go in two minutes.”
Mrs. McLean had picked up
the teapot. “You might as
well.”
“No, I told Bill”
“Where is he?”
“Gone down for a couple of
quickies. We been up seeing
the old man. Sit down and
talk, love.”
MRS. McLEAN sat down,
and the two women
beamed at_ each other across
a corner of the table.
“I couldn’t have been more
pleased if it’d been Bill,” said
Mrs. Howe heartily. ‘‘What
does it feel like?”
“I couldn’t believe it for a
long time. It was like somebody
was playing a dirty joke on us.
Then I sat down and cried.
Honest, I cried. I couldn’t help
it. To think it come now, after
all this worry.”
Mrs. Howe’s smile was
tender. “God help you, you’re
still shaking. You don’t want
to let yourself get upset over
it, love. You got nothing to
worry about now.”
Mrs. McLean nodded
dreamily. “I’ve been sitting
here buying houses all the after-
noon. It’s funny, ever since we
got the eviction order we've
been saying that Tatt.’s was the
only thing that stood between
us and Camp Pell.”
“When is it you’ve got to be
out?”
“Friday week. Frank’s sick
with worry. He’s been getting
nightmares thinking about it.”
“It’s a damn’ shame. It’s all
right for them magistrates”
“They’ve got to do it some-
times. The bloke that bougnt
this place has got four kids.”
“There should be houses for
everybody. Anyhow, you’re
all right now. The agents’ll be
falling over you now you’ve
got money. There’s houses
everywhere for a deposit
half of what you got.
How’s the kids? They
wouldn’t know what it's
all about. Eh, Davey?”
Davey, the eldest, looked
up as the visitor’s hand
ruffled his hair. But his
blue eyes rested on her
only for a moment, then
turned, with a spon-
taneous little frown, to his
mother, as if he’d suddenly
remembered a half-forgotten
grievance.
“You woke something up,”
said Mrs. McLean. “I went out
and got a duck to celebrate
with. That’s all he can think
of.”
“Bless him! ” Mrs. Howe
fondled the child again. “Your
belly thinks your throat’s cut,
does it, love? Never mind,
Dad won’t be long now —then
. . . whacko! ” She glanced at
the clock and got up. “I got
to go, Liz”
“Frank’ll be in any minute.”
will my Bill! But you
don’t want to bet on Frank.
I know them wharfies. They’re
bound to have a few snorts on
it when they knock off.”
said in the telegram he'd
come straight home. ‘Happy
Gang got first in Tatt.’s. Home
on the bat.’ Just like that. I’ve
been reading it all the after-
noon.”
“Well, I’m just telling you,
don’t get worked-up if he’s
a bit late. See you in the morn-
ing.”
(Continued on page 70)


PERSONAL ITEMS
Victorian Police Commissioner Porter,
who has been looking round for some
yvay of promoting his more deserving
younger seniors, has hit on —characteris-
tically for an Army type —the new post of
station-officer, equivalent to warrant-
officer or regimental sergeant-major. He
has picked Bill (Detective-Sergeant
William Wall Warner) Mooney, who’s
one of the younger men in the homicide
squad, though he’s had 20 years of excite-
ment investigating 300 murders. As the
first S.O. at Geelong in charge of
uniformed police, he’ll find life more
sedate, although Geelong, of course, is no
longer Sleepy Hollow. Mooney js a son of
another W.W.W., who was an acting
Commissioner in the ’thirties and one of
the most popular policemen in the Force’s
history.
• •
Few men have taken more pains in
getting news-stories than Noel Barber, a
roving correspondent for the London
“Daily Mail,” who recently landed at
Perth airport to have a look at Australia.
Barber was the only British reporter to
get pictures and news out of Hungary
during the revolution last October.
During the first four days of the rising,
he drove daily from Budapest to the
Austrian border and back. At the frontier
he always found a colleague waiting to
send on the news. When the going became
tougher, Barber was shot in the head
twice and spent some time in a Hungarian
hospital, before a bribe of a carton of
cigarettes and 50 dollars enabled him to
escape into Austria. After the Australian
visit, he hopes to get an assignment to
Indonesia.
• •
Adrian Wintle, arranger of the carol
on page 11 of this issue, is 19 ; he started
work on The Bulletin three years ago.
Brisbane-born, he came to Sydney when
he was two, is an Old Boy of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral Choir School, and studied
pianoforte under Hugh Bancroft and
Leslie Sage; also , Frank Hutchens
and Winifred Burston at Sydney
Con. He has arranged several
other songs, and has just completed five
variations on “Once in Royal David’s
City,” commissioned by Errol Lea-
to be played this Christmas on
the Sydney University carillon.
Alan Byron Sherlock, whose fine
boxing serial “The Man on the Handker-
chief” starts in this issue, lives in Sydney
but travels around the State a good deal
in his Lands Department job. Contacted
by phone at Orange last week, he
admitted having done a bit of leather-
pushing himself, as an amateur feather-
weight. “But T didn’t break any records.”
Any other interests —sports and hobbies?
Gardening, say, or bowls? Yes, the voice
over the line said, he’d played a bit of
bowls, but gave it up around 30 years
ago: played with the Hay Club, but
when he left, the district took up tennis
again. A brother of the late “Lock,”
whose joke-blocks of Navy life were very
widely known, A. B. Sherlock is 57 and,
as “The Man on the Handkerchief”
shows, is a keen student of boxing,-with
an eye for character.
• •
/ Switching-off the mike after half a
century in telegraph- and radio-work,
Raymond Anderson, senior officer of the
Bassendean (W.A.) coastal radio-station.
He joined the P.M.G.’s Department as a
telegraph-messenger in 1907, enlisted in
the R.A.N. wireless-branch in 1914, and
saw the surrender of former German New
Guinea at Rabaul in that year. Further
service was round the coast of China
and elsewhere in the Pacific. In War II
V.I.P., XMAS
he was in charge of the Broome radio-
station when Jap Zeros sprayed Dutch
flying-boats and civil aircraft on the
Broome hangars. Between the wars, he
handled rescue-messages from the
Darwin radio-station when the Southern
Cross with Kingsford Smith and a crew
of three was lost. A happier moment was
when he radioed from Darwin the news
that Amy Johnson’s aircraft had been
sighted. That news appeared in the stop-
press of Sydney papers within a few
hours.
• •
“Xavier”: Tenor-balladist Sydney
Mac Ewan has given his last public con-
cert in the little town of Moy, in County
Tyrone, Ireland. Now a canon of the
Cathedral Chapter of the Scottish diocese
of Argyll and the Isles, he was at the peak
l>f his career when he began ecclesiastical
studies, being ordained in 1943. A few
years back he toured Australia and
America using his liquid voice to raise
funds for church purposes. Canon
Mac Ewan, who these days does most of
his singing among his flock, travelled
from his Scottish Highlands parish of
Lochgilphead for a farewell performance
in the Moy parish-hall.
• . •
“F.A.M.”: One of the most interesting
residents of Toowoomba (Q.) is Andrew
Atkins, who drove Cobb and Co. coaches
for eight years on the Charleville-
Thargomindah-Adavale-Windorah routes.
For four years he rode and drove 400
miles a week, and during that time had
only one holiday—three weeks when he
got married. He crossed the Cooper
many times on the Adavale-Windorah
run, and was once held up for five weeks
by floods. He is now 91, but hale enough
to go for a walk every day, whatever the
weather. His memory is good, too, and
when one of his old western friends drops
in to see him, the talk is worth hearing.
• •
Interview with a prominent per-
sonality :
“Tell me, sir, what is your opinion of
all this seasonal festivity, this tumult
and shouting, this
vast spending spree,
this mad jostling,
this vulgar”
“Obviously, young
man, it is a racket
fostered by the retail
trade. A corruption
of”
“Then you dis-
approve?”
“Great Heavens,
no. I love it.”
“But do you
approve of the extra-
v a g a n c e—
of everyone dredging
their pockets for
their very last trey-
bit to buy a swing
for the canary or a
card for Aunt
Bessie?”
“Of course I do
- —although Aunt Bessie might prefer
the swing.”
“Well, do you approve of the gargan-
tuan feasting? Of all the hams and
turkeys and cakes and puddings? Of the
eating and drinking until your eyes stick
out like organ-stops?”
“Young man, houses are no longer
built with chimneys. The birth-rate is
rising and the demands of children are
becoming exorbitant. Sputniks are sput-
4ing about my ears. Parking regulations
are incomprehensible. The Shop Assis-
tants’ Union is sudden death on anyone
working after hours. Beards are unbear-
able in heat-waves, and the price of chalf
for reindeers is an outrage. Young man,
with all these and other worries to perplex
and confound me throughout the year, if
I cannot indulge in one spending-spree
and eat, drink and be merry at least
once in that yeer—then, young man, life
would no longer be tolerable.”
“I see your point. One last question,
sir. Do you believe in people?”
“Confidentially, no. But aren’t they a
wonderful idea?”


“Uramao”: Dr. Malcolm Mcßae
Bums, Director of Canterbury Agricul-
tural College (N.Z.), has gone to Malaya
to advise on the setting-up of agricultural
colleges there. The Federation of Malaya
has ambitious plans for its agricultural
colleges. Burns, born at Rangiora, Can-
terbury (N.Z.), in 1910, has filled big
jobs as a plant-physiologist, and his work
at Canterbury has given him an inter-
national reputation in agricultural
education.
• •
Bob Cotton could be described as the
N. S. Wales Liberal party’s answer to
allegations that it is a Big City party ;
the Liberal president was born at Broken
Hill H has spent most of his adult life in
the country, and doubles the job of party
chief with those of razing timber and
raising sheep at Oberon, out beyond
Jenolan Caves. Joining his father’s firm
—Cotton's Pty., Ltd., of Broken Hill- —
when he left school about 25 years ago,
he was trained in the general merchandis-
ing and timber business and moved to
Oberon during the war when the family
established Timber Industries Pty.,' Ltd.,
which runs one of the biggest country
sawmills in N.S.W., processing local
hardwoods and plantation-grown soft-
woods for the Broken Hill mines. Now
managing-director of both companies, he
has interested himself in pasture-
improvement, raising fat lambs on newly-
cleared land, clover-pastured with the aid
of trace-elements. At Carrington Park
farm, tftree-and-a-half miles south of
Oberon, Cotton and his wife are con-
centrating on Hampshire Downs, a breed
of sheep little known in this country ;
they also raise Romney Marsh, and a
few polled Hereford cattle.
Cotton's first serious incursion into
politics was in 1949, when he opposed Ben
Chifley for the Macquarie seat. Since
then his activities have been mainly on
the organisational side, culminating in his
election to the presidency of the Liberal
party last year.
O.C., N.S.W. LIBS.
Major - General
John Rowlstone
Stevenson, C.8.E.,
D. 5.0., E.D., takes
over command of
the Second Divi-
sion, C.M.F., in
succession to
Major - General
Denzil Macarthur-
Onslow after just
short of a genera-
tion of commis-
sioned service. It
is a tribute to his
sturdiness of out-
look that he sought,
and got, a sub-
altern’s commission
in 1929, a black
year of military re-
trenchment.
He went to the
Second A.I.F. as a
captain in October,
1939, at 31 ; at 33
he was 0.C., 2/3
Infantry Battalion,
and at 35 he was
about the youngest
brigadier in the
A.I.F. and in com-
mand of the 11th
Brigade in the
more-or-less salu-
brious Dutch resort
of Merauke, West
New Guinea, after
a varied experi-
ence in the Middle
East, which in-
cluded some of
the toughest of the
fighting in Syria
leading to the capture of Damascus. For
his services in Merauke the Netherlands
Government gave him the Order of
Oranje-Nassau.
After D.N.G. came Bougainville, his
service there culminating in an assignment
to accept the Japanese surrender of
Nauru and Ocean Island. Since the war
he has continued to take a -close interest
in military life, commanded the sth
Infantry Brigade, C.M.F., has had a
leading part in the organisation of the
N. S. Wales United Services Institution
and was chairman of its Library Com-
mittee for over a decade. In private life
he has been Clerk of Parliaments since
1954 and devotes a modicum of his time
to the systematisation of the State’s
Parliamentary records. The first volume
of his detailed index of Parliamentary
proceedings was issued recently amid the
applause of historical students.
• •
From S. J. Minogue: The late Father
Richard Murphy (B. 4/12/’57) a
great man. A man of great spiritual
influence, but one with his feet firmly
planted on the ground ; a man with a
wide knowledge of the world, and one
with a clear eye for the distinction between
humanity and humanity’s crimes and
follies. He was a Jesuit, with a reputa-
tion, even among Jesuits, for his know-
ledge of moral theology, yet he was so
G.O.C., SECOND DIV.
humble-he was equally at home with a
laborer as with a University don.
He pioneered many movements among
the laity of the Catholic Church in
Sydney ; but he will be best remembered
for his work in the move-
ment of Alcoholics Anonymous. In
1942, when I was exhausted, and he much
less so, at the end of a six-mile walk
with him, I first mentioned the subject
of A.A. He realised its possibilities at
once, and, although a non-alcoholic him-
self, he devoted most of his energies to
furthering the cause. Much of its early
literature in Sydney was written by him,
and even when he was too weak physi-
cally to help actively, in later years, he was
still keenly interested in it. His was the
spirit that gave the pioneers of the move-
ment in Sydney the will to go on. By
them, especially, he will be remembered.
•
Into the Silence: — J
In Melbourne, at 7J, John Scott Philps, Lord
Mayor of Adelaide from July, 1954, to June this
year. A past-president of S.A. Rotary and
former president of the S.A. Baptist Union.
In Melbourne, at 71, Brigadier Harry Charles
Bundock, Base Commandant of the Fourth
Military District in S.A. in World War 11. He
joined the R.A.A. in 1908, and in War I was
twice wounded, was twice mentioned in
dispatches and won D.S.O. He retired from the
Regular Army in 1946. In 1936 he was hon.
A.D.C. to the then Governor-General, Lord
Gowrie.


(aturtuj^bucut
THE m-BRITISH
the Pen
with thp
Marvellous
Nib!
1
r
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
Business, Robbery, Etc.
WORLD CAPITAL SHORTAGE
A USTRALIA, in the 1956-57
financial year, showed an
increase in personal savings,
attributable largely to the
increase in wool prices. “Farm
income,” as rural incomes are
classified in Canberra, is
estimated to have risen 13 p.c.,
in spite of the fall in wheat
production and prices.
But savings in Australia are
still not as high as they need
to be in an expanding com-
munity that is urgently in need
of capital for development
purposes. And in 1956-57
expenditure on fixed capital-
equipment fell slightly, partly
because of credit-restfictions
especially aimed at restricting
expenditures. In the preceding
four years there had been a
steady rise in private capital-
expenditure.
The 1956-57 drop was to
16 p.c. of what is described as
the “national product,” com-
pared with p.c. in 1954-55
and 1955-56, and 19 p.c. in
1951-52 (the year of the
previous intensive credit- and
import-restriction).
Because of a shorter working-
week in Australia, plus a com-
paratively low productivity per
man-hour, high personal con-
sumption, and the superimposi-
tion of expdfiding social-
security benefits granted to
non-producers, there is an
acute shortage of surplus pro-
duction, and therefore of
capital, which shows-up in
both funds available and man-
power available. A minute
ratio of unemployment is no
contradiction of this statement.
The World Picture
According to a survey made
by the U.K. Treasury, all over
the world, on a scale without
precedent, countries are seek-
ing to raise output and living-
standards by devoting an
increasing share of their
resources to investment —to the
creation of physical capital
assets such as machines and
factory-buildings.
Plans to invest more, how-
ever, carry with them the
danger of inflation unless they
are matched by corresponding
plans to save more. Accord-
ingly, in the interests of a
steady and balanced growth,
Governments in many countries
have been restraining invest-
ment ; and one of their main
methods has been to restrict the
amount of money made avail-
able for the finance of invest-
ment.
Investment Rises
Rising world demand for
investment capital is illustrated
by the following table, which
shows how much of the gross
national (or domestic) product
was taken by domestic fixed
investment in 1938 (where avail-
able) and in 1948, 1954 and
1955. The figures are derived
from a variety of sources, and
are by no means fully com-
parable ; no exact conclusions
can be drawn from them, but
they help, to indicate a general
trend:
1938. 1918. 19.34. 1955.
O.E.E.C. , p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
countries .... 15.0 15.7 17.6 18.5
U.S.A. .. 14.2 16.5 16.4 17.0
Canada .. 15.9 21.7 22.1 22.6
Japan .. 22.2 19.3 19.6 20.0
Ceylon . „ 5.5 6.2 10.0 11.3
U.K. colonies 13-14 15 15
Latin America - 19.1 16..1 15.8
Two points stand out. First,
Japan excepted, in all the
countries and areas for which
figures are available the share
of investment has been higher
"I suppose you Wouldn't happen to know the size
of the guv'nor's foot?”
since the war than before. In
the case of Canada and Ceylon
—and the same would un-
doubtedly be true of other
more recently developing
countries—it has been a great
deal higher. Secondly, in the
O.E.E.C (Organisation for
European Economic Control)
countries and the U.K. colonial
territories, and in Canada,
Japan and Ceylon, investment’s
share was higher in 1952-55
than in 1948-51.
In most countries and not
least in Europe and the
Commonwealth investment
will almost certainly continue
to grow in the years ahead,
the U.K. Treasury declares.
World demand for investment
capital is therefore unlikely to
diminish.
Canada’s Plans
In Canada, the royal commis-
sion on the country’s economic
prospects has suggested that
the total amount of investment
in 1980 may be getting on for
three times that of 1955. In
India, under the second five-
year plan, the rate of invest-
ment in the period 1957-61 is
expected to average over £lOOO
million a year, compared with
£6OO million a year under the
first plan ; this represents a rise
in investment’s share of national
i
income from 5 per cent, in
1951-52 and 7 per cent, in
1956-57 to 12 per cent, in
1960-61.
In the U.K. colonies,
Governments and other public
bodies plan to spend roughly
£l5O million a year on develop-
ment over the next few years.
In the United States, according
to a recent survey of business
intentions, businessmen are
planning to spend about 12
per cent, more on new plant
and equipment in 1957 than
they did in 1956; and, over
a longer period, striking in-
creases in investment in
research and development are
planned.
The Role of the U.K.
For much of the nineteenth
century, and for part of this,


4E HAS A
<6
. . . BUT HE
WEARS A
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NKO - BAlt-
ebbi? acts like
a hand when
placed flat upon
the orifice. You will at once, without
effort and in all movements, control
your hernia with comfort and
security. It cannot be displaced by
violent movement and has proved
completely successful by all who
have tried it.
Write today for Free Literature
Barrere Distribution Company
Dept. 3n, 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
■ -
m
mm
mm
- T
• • ' - y - v
• x ,«.%s >■ i> ;• :
f
a . . . . ,5
t WyM
ij
M
‘.-■■■■jc-
-1
IjW
M
•x
/i charming way to give a
MONEY PRESENT
By giving a Bank of New South Wales Christmas
Gift Cheque, you give a most acceptable gift
a money present in a most charming way.
This Gift Cheque combines a beautiful
greetings card with a personal cheque, illustrated
with flowers and trees long associated with
Christmas.
Gift Cheques may be obtained at any branch,
whether you have an account or not. The cost
is only ls.3d. (including stamp duty), plus the
amount of the cheque.
In addition to the Christmas Gift Cheque,
there are attractive Gift Cheques for Birthdays,
Weddings, and General Purposes. Call or write
to your local branch for the free coloured folder
about Gift Cheques.
This Christmas , give
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Issued by the Bank of New South Wales
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
AS7S4C
Britain was by far the biggest
international investor.
Since the war, despite the
intensified need for capital at
home, Britain has continued to
lenckabroad on a considerable
scale. It has been estimated that
average U.K. investment in the
Commonwealth over the years
1953-56, together with special
assistance to various colonial
territories, totalled nearly £2OO
million a year. This represented
about 1| per cent, of the gross
national product in these years
and 7-8 per cent, of the gross
domestic fixed investment.
Britain is still a major source
of development capital for the
rest of the world. The U.S.A.,
though the leading provider of
foreign capital, does not, on any
calculation, lend abroad so
large a proportion of its
national product.
Surplus Needed
There are big and growing
opportunities for further over-
seas investment by the U.K.
But to do this it needs a current
external surplus which is also
large enough to provide for
repayment of overseas loans
and for rebuilding gold and
dollar reserves. It also has to
provide resources for the big
investment programmes at
home, not least in coal, steel,
transport, atomic power, oil
and other basic industries.
It is against this background
of high investment demand, at
home and abroad, that the
continuing need for the credit-
squeeze must be judged, says
the U.K. Treasury.
Eating the Cake
The big lesson for Australia,
in studying all this, is that you
can’t eat your cake and have
it, too.
But it is not enough merely
to save and be thrifty ; there
must be some planning in
advance as to the most effective
means of employing that thrift
and those savings in the way of
reproductive capital investment
—investment that will create
needed capital-goods as well as
consumer-goods.
And a higher rate of overall
productivity makes the burden
of capital-requirements less
onerous in* terms of the
draining-away of consumer-
goods. It is in the matter of
underproduction that Australia
is chiefly vulnerable.
Thus when one compares
Canada’s 22.6 p.c. of the
national product made available
for domestic investment in
1955 alongside Australia’s
figure of, 17.5 p.c., the position
may be worse (from Australia’s
point of view) than indicated.
If Canada’s productivity per
head is higher than Australia’s,
then Canada’s “tooling-up” for
greater future productivity is
greater than the 22.6 p.c. would
suggest in relation to Australia’s
17.5 p.c.
The Oil-hound’s Job
[By ~L. Owen]
T ETTERS I receive often
show as little understand-
ing of the true functions of a
petroleum-geologist as do many
directors of “amateur” oil-
companies. I aim here to out-
line, therefore, what I consider
to be the scope of his work and
the correct method of accomp-
lishing it.
The first stage should be a
reconnaissance trip, which con-
sists of a quick run-round to
get the “feel” of the country.
Like most of what appear to
be the simpler operations in the
oil game, this trip, in order to
achieve results of value, must
be carried out by a geologist
with long oilfield experience ;
the major companies usually
recognise this fact by sending
along a very senior man on this
first trip with the officer who is
to be ip charge of the subse-
quent field-survey.
In my cadet days, the most
rapid means of bush-travel was
by horse or. mule or camel, and
one acquired the ability to
construct quite a serviceable
sketch-map, incorporating the
more important features, with-
out dismounting. For any
geological data which might be
of value for the general
appraisal of the area, the work,
as a matter of course, was done
on foot.
Nowadays the jeep and the
aeroplane are available for
bushwhacking. “Jeeping,” how-
ever, conduces to a reluctance
to stop at many points of
interest, where subsequently-
arising problems might have
been solved on the spot by a
little contemplation, while
observations from the air— ■
before at least some part of the
area has been worked in detail
Oil JOOt are very likely to lead
to faulty interpretations of the
ok .
structure. Such premature con-
ceptions are extremely difficult
to shake-off and often color
subsequent detail-work to an
extent which is unrealisable by
those who have not been sub-
. , . . ..... .
jected tO rigid mental discipline
in their student days.
a c r i_ ti
As Eror. John Ferry —
certainly the outstanding
teacher of his generation and
possibly of all time—put it:
f .. ...
collect at college is unimportant by
comparison with the necessity for
acquiring- the habit and ability to
study every problem from several
angles and of subjecting all obser-
&£
tidily at aii times,
The trkk ° £ memorising data is
« £ surprisingly little real use out-
side the examination-room. On
each examination-result list there
are usually two very big fools—
the one at the top and the one at
the bottom—and I'm damned if I


MaSgPny^L
1957-A RECORD YEAR
NEW BUSINESS. 95,811 new Life Policies
assuring £51,201,685 and 15,482 new Accident
and Sickness Policies were effected, while Acci-
dent Benefits for £28,337,395 were granted in
respect of 34,234 Life Policies.
INCOME. The Income for the year
exceeded £21,900,000, an increase of
more than £1,500,000 over the previous
year’s total.
SERVICE. The Society settles all
claims with notable promptness. Pay-
ments to Policyholders last year
exceeded £8,118,000 making a total of
more than £59,600,000 during the last
ten years.
ASSURANCES IN FORCE. In the
Ordinary and Industrial Departments
the Assurances in Force now exceed
£381,000,000, providing a great mantle
of protection for the Policyholders.
SECURITY. The Society’s finan-
cial position is very strong. The
Assets, which are invested in first-
class securities, increased by more
than £9,800,000 to the record total
of £123,100,000.
81 Years of Service Purely Mutual
Jjfe Society
The Australasian Temperance & General Mutual Life
Assurance Society Ltd. (Incorporated' in Victoria, 1876.)
m
know which, is the bigger f ool of
the two.
The end of all intensive out-
crop study in the oil game is,
of course, the accurate inter-
polation and extrapolation of.
structures to depth. For over
half -ra - century of applied
petroleum-geology, it was the
only method available.
Since the late 1920'5, how-
ever, geophysics has provided
an additional and extremely
valuable tool. By its great
success, under suitable
geological and topographical
conditions, it has not only
speeded-up but vastly improved
the accuracy of predictions of
structure at depth. Unfortu-
nately it has, at the same time,
almost exterminated the crafts-
man in petroleum-geology.
The present-day scarcity of
craftsmen causes little obvious
hardship in “normal” oilfields.
In abnormal fields, however, the
oil-geologist—trained in craft
as well as mechanics —is
essential. This fact is strikingly
illustrated on the Australian
mainland (whose geological
history is unique) where the
paucity of craftsmen in
petroleum-geology is severely
felt not only in direct geological
studies but in the correct inter-
pretation of geophysical data.
Let me make it quite clear
that I very fully appreciate
the enormous value to the
industry of the several geo-
physical methods employed in
the search for petroleum, but,
particularly where conditions
are not “text-book these
methods lose much of their
advantage. They may even
become misleading where the
interpretation of the data
obtained by them is not con-
trolled on the geological (as
distinct from the mathematical)
side by men who have been
trained as craftsman-geologists
and not merely as mechanical
recorders of high-speed
observations.
When all is said and done,
the main function of the
geologist exploring for oil is to
. eliminate unpromising areas
and thus reduce to a minimum
the number of test-wells which
have to be sunk. That elimina-
tion entails much more than
the mechanical determination
of structure by the mapping of
stratigraphical boundaries on
the surface and at depth,
where satisfactory data (in-
cluding unweighted geophysi-
cal results) are available. The
“much more” is the function
of the geological craftsman.
Both universities and commer-
cial organisations exploring for
oil should realise the necessity
for training them.


Goggling through the Guggenheim
By OLAF RUHEN
A FREQUENTLY recur-
ring excitement of my
childhood was the
exploration of such
half-finished buildings as from
time to time sprang up in our
neighborhood.
It was a forbidden excitement;
we were constantly under the
hazard of discovery by the
contractor or the architect or
the owner or the local con-
stable ; and as it was a small-
enough community, some one
or other of these seemed
always at hand. But there
were cliffs of scaffolding to
scale, and forts of stacked
timber in which to play siege,
and treasures of sawn blocks
to accumulate; and the risk
itself was an incentive.
A far greater consideration
was the glimpse of the fasci-
nating midway of creation, the
period between conception and
achievement; the skeleton of
the sculpture, the half-finished
canvas, the film in script.
It was a challenge to
imagination to floor the long
beams underfoot, to panel the
studding, furnish the empty
spaces, look at the view
through non-existent windows,
and generally put ourselves
into the position of the new
and house - proud owner
when he should enter upon
his possession.
I recaptured these latter
sensations in what I) felt to be
the ultimate degree when,
recently, I visited the half-
completed Museum for
Modem Art which Frank
Lloyd Wright is building for
the Solomon R. Guggenheim
Foundation in New York’s
Fifth Avenue.
It was an exciting
experience, far more exciting
than all the explorations of
childhood, opening such vistas
of a new way of living, a new
relationship of man to art that
I think I could have had no
comparable experience any-
where else. And this in spite of
the fact that I had not been
deaf to some of Wright’s more
intelligent critics.
Within the
imposed by finance, domesti-
city and personal cussedness
I’ve been an avid hunter of
experience ; but this one, like
most of the best, came by
accident. Once previously
after looking at the current
display of the Guggenheim
collection, I had walked on up
the avenue to see the new
building, to be opened early
in 1958, and had looked at
such of the structure as was
visible above the high board
fence. There was a notice
“Visitors Not Permitted” ;
and I was no better off than
voluminous accounts had left
me, except that I could
visualise the Museum in its
relation to the rest of the city.
It stands opposite Central
Park, near where the tan-bark
track invites the equestrian
New Yorker to a morning
canter, half - a - dozen city
blocks above the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, which will
thus be effectively balanced
between the Guggenheim’s
supra - modernity and the
The Guggenheim
classicism of the Frick Collec-
tion, also on Fifth Avenue and
ten blocks below the Metro-
politan,
The Guggenheim is other-
wise surrounded by blocks of
exclusive apartment-houses, in
an area where leashed teams of
clipped French poodles and
whitemniformed nursemaids
pushing prams practically out-
number all other passers-by.
My closer acquaintance with
it began at a weekend party in
Bucks County, a pleasant
green Pennsylvania district on
the outer perimeter of commu-
tation from New York; so far
away, indeed, that the com-
muters are almost equally
divided between desks in New
York City and in Philadelphia,
cities 90 miles apart. The
house where I was staying was
on the Delaware River, only
four miles, in fact, from the
crossing where Washington,
one Christmas Eve, surprised
the Hessians and ensured the
success of the American War
of Independence.
Amongst the guests who
dropped in for Saturday-even-
ing cocktails was Bill Short, a
quiet and rather self-effacing
young architect who'neverthe-
less has a mature confidence in
himself and his work. This is
justified he is Frank Lloyd
Wright’s personal representa-
tive, and therefore' the owner’s
representative on the Guggen-
heim job. I asked him about a
friend of mine, Ed Whiting,
who’d been a Wright appren-
tice, but there were 15 years
between their respective asso-
ciations with Wright, and they
weren’t acquainted. It was 15
years, too, since I’d seen
Whiting; he had been a
barracks friend of mine in
Canada in the ’forties ; but we
had been fairly dose ; he was
a worshipper of his mentor, and
as a result I was conversant
with some of the more intimate
details of the Frank Lloyd
Wright legend.
Anyway, three or four days
later I went again to the
Guggenheim site, opened the
gate which said “No Visitors”
and looked for Bill Short. The
workmen were just leaving,
which surprised me at 3.30 on a
perfect autumn afternoon still
promising (with Daylight
Saving) four hours of sunshine ;
but it was normal. They begin
work at 7.30, end at 3.30, and
take half-an-hour for lunch.
Within these working hours
they will complete the building
18 months after the start,
although it presents some
problems never before encoun-
tered by contractors. With a
natural courtesy which I’m
always surprised, for some
reason, to find in New York,
and always do find, they inter-
rupted their preparations for
departure to find Bill Short,
whose official title, at least
according to Wright, is “Clerk
of the Works.”
The office proved to be one
of those enormous car-trailers
which look, and are, the last
word in mobile luxury, but it
was most workmanlike inside,
and here, with the aid of a
mass of blueprints, Short made
me familiar, or at least
attempted to make me familiar,
with the construction details of
the Museum.
“It’s not a large building,
you know,” he said. “At least,
Mr. Wright doesn’t consider it
to be a large building. On the
other hand it isn’t exactly small.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Wright
has done very few large build-
ings, when you consider his
reputation. And another thing
that’s interesting about this:
it’s the first building he has
put up in New York City.
“As you can see already,
it’s really two buildings: the
gallery proper and a small
office building,” he continued.
“Between them, and integral
with the gallery itself, this
elliptical unit carries a flight of
stairs —that’s demanded by the
building regulations—apd all
the services. The two buildings
are separated on the ground-
floor, so that the drive-wav


runs between them. On the
second floor and the two
floors above they are connected
by a series of bridges. Come
out and see for yourself.”
We went underground first,
to the building’s theatre,
approaching it by a ramp which
will connect it directly with
Fifth Avenue.
“The ramp was put here
according to building regula-
tions —an emergency exit from
the theatre,” Bill said. “How-
ever, as you can see, it
the curve <?f the main gallery,
and is aesthetically right; more-
or-less a continuation of the
spiral which is the gallery ; and
I suppose it will be the normal
means of access to the theatre.”
Between the ramp and the
street, concrete walls already
outline the sites for sunken
gardens, later to be planted with
trees and shrubs, and I recalled
that Wright is reported to.
have said, “Were going to
bring the park right across the
street.” . ,
“That’s so,” nodded Short.
“In other words, and probably
as he sees it himself, he'll make-
Central Park a feature of the
Gallery, one of the visual
amenities. The eye will carry
right on from these trees to the
massed greens of the park ; and
it will enhance the feeling of
freedom you have here.”
The theatre itself was next-
door to completion. We entered
from the ramp, directly across
from the stage; and thus it
was not surprising that the eye
was drawn to that feature;
but later, and from every angle
of the enclosure, the effect of
concentration upon the stage
was unbelievably strong ; and
this in the absence of any
seating or furnishings facing in
that direction. The auditorium
is a small one, exactly circular
and with a bowl-shaped floor ;
the stage is an intersecting circle
of smaller dimensions. The roof
is a massive single slab of
concrete, 60ft. in diameter, and
supported in part by six
circular columns. These are
each 4ft. in diameter, and
placed behind all the seating
accommodation.
“They are much bigger than
is necessary,” Short commented.
“Mr. Wright, of course, made
them that size for the look of
the thing. The roof of the
theatre, though it occupies the
centre of the building, has to
support no weight except that
of the public —* a hundred
pounds per square - foot
because it is, of course, the
main floor of the gallery.
Behind this bowl-shaped floor
there*s additional seating
accommodation and then
there’s this.”
“This” was another inter-
secting circle, smaller than the
circle of the stage and almost
directly opposed to it in rela-
tion to the centre of the theatre;
but situated between the floor
and the roof to form another
level, a kind of miniature dress-
circle.
“This is going to have loose
seating. It’s designed to take
care of V.I.P.s ; something like
that. I imagine Mr. Wright
will have himself a seat there.”
The theatre will mostly be
used for functions directly
related to the display of modern
art —lectures, films and other
diversions of an educational
nature, so that it is not expected
“Find anything in the tomb ?”
to accommodate great numbers,
but its economic disposal of
proportions will mean that
more people will be seated in
comfort in more intimate asso-
ciation with the speaker than
in any other auditorium I have
seen.
Intimacy, indeed, is the
wonderful new dimension
Frank Lloyd Wright has
brought to the relationship
between an art-gallery and
every concerned member of its
public.
Short put it in another way:
“The feature of the gallery
itself is that the visitor is at
all times aware of where he
stands in relationship to the
entire building.”
There are several other
features, too.
One is that almost without
exception every exhibit will
occupy an equally desirable
position on the walls. All
paintings will be hung on the
outer wall of the gallery, a
spiral which climbs a gentle
ramp six stories in height,
Another is that, the natural
lighting will be evenly diffused
throughout the whole building,
Half of it will come from the
glass dome, 95ft. above the
ground, which will cap the
empty central court of the
building. An equal quantity
will light the inside of the
outer wall, being introduced
through semi-circular skylights,
of 4ft. diameter, apd lying
horizontally like a string of split
beads at the outer edge of the
continuous ceiling. So although
the main dependence of the
gallery will be upon artificial
lighting, the diffused natural
lighting will favor no part of
the building against any other.
Although the ramp climbs
upward from below ground-
level to 80-odd feet above, so
that one pictures it, for
example, an ideal playground
for roller-skating boys, the
slope is, in fact, so gentle as
to demand no very great
exertion from anyone making
the ascent. It is as easy to walk
up as to walk down. And lest
one should fear that, having
begun a tour of the gallery, one
will be forced to complete it,
elevators open on the ramp at
six levels, so that one can begin
anywhere at the top, the
bottom or the middle.
At any level, between the
floor and the wide-open central
court, is only a waist-high
parapet, so that you can look
across this open space to the
art displayed on the opposite
walls at two or more levels,
and to the onlookers at all
six. There is no actual
enclosure, and no pillars restrict
the vision. Wright, who tends
o Continued on page 73)
to see the features of a build-
ing in terms of the features
of living organisms, sees the
outer wall as a kind of coiled
spine, supporting, as it were, a
continuous rib which forms
the coiled floor and ends in the
inner space. At this inner end
the parapet, which seems to
add nothing but weight,
actually gives strength to the
rib.
Nearly everything is circular,
semi-circular, elliptical or, as
in the case of the lighting-
sockets and other small
features, triangular.
“The whole aesthetic concept
is one of relationship between
the circle and the triangle,”
Bill Short said.
I asked him whether the
building would be an economic
one to maintain. He frowned
slightly.
“I don’t think Mr. Wright
had that particularly in mind,”
he said. “Of course, in the
matter of heating it is probably
a little more economic for the
reason that the circular form
encloses the most space with
the smallest wall-area.”
Later, \yhen we came to the
elliptical service - tower, in
which will be concentrated all
the services of the building—
the elevators, heating conduits,
plumbing, electrical and tele-
phone services and the rest —I
asked him again whether this
would minimise maintenance.
“Oh, that’s a possibility,” he
agreed. “But I don’t think it
is what Mr. Wright had in
mind. Ypu know, he often
refers to things in terms of
features of the human body—
he’ll call ventilation ducts
‘nostrils,’ for instance ; and he


Have I you made your WILL?
tmdr
Hie Trustees Executors & Agency
• COMPANY LTD. -
iNmw>M in Vi«toni« Im 1971
TR6S.S4
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
By appointing The Trustees Executors and Agency Company limited
Executor and Trustee under your Will, you safeguard your Estate and
secure continuity of service.
The Company, which was incorporated in Victoria in 1878, is empowered
by special Acts of Parliament to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
Write or call for free booklet setting out the following —
it Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
★ Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLICH STREET. SYDNEY.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve s £972,812
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
J. Cuming Stewert; Hugh R. Syme; R.
Campbell: T. L. Webb.
M.C., V.D.
H. Norman,
(Chairman); W. Sydney Jones;
D. 5.0., M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., <?.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0., E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan 6. Potter.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Aust. Consolidated Industries, Lid.
/"V LASS MAKING is the principal of
the giant A.C.l.’s diversified and
widespread interests, with the manufac-
ture of all types of glass-containers as
the largest single section of the co.’s
activities. Last term’s small slip in net
profit, therefore, had less significance
than did news of a reduced turnover in
the glass-container subsidiaries and the
decision to suspend construction of a new
glassmaking-plant at Macaulay (Mel-
bourne) “until demand revives.”
However, one of the main reasons for
the sharp fall, last October, in the price
offered for the co.’s scrip was the absence
of any hint of a bonus-issue at the annual
meeting held during that month. The
accounts, bulging with reserves (includ-
ing nearly £2 million of share-premiums),
and the successful expansion of the co.
in recent years have sustained hopes of
such an issue for some time.
Reaching a peak of 695. in July, the
f.-p. £1 ords. sold at 555. 9d. last month,
changing hands last week at 565. 3d. to
return £4 Bs. lid. p.c. from a \2\ p.c.
div.
Operating through 40 subsidiary and
associated, cos., A.C.I. holds a virtual
monopoly over glass- and bottle-manu-
facturing in Australia and New Zealand,
while factories set-up in Singapore and
Bangkok over' the last decade have
enabled the co. to gain a strong position
in the glass-trade of South-east Asia.
The group also turns out a widening
range of plastic and fibreglass products,
laminated board (“Laminex”), refrac-
tories, forged hand-tools, cardboard con-
tainers, etc., and undertakes structural-
and heavy-engineering work.
Driving-force behind the formation and
development of the organisation, W. J.
Smith, relinquished the position of
managing-director last term. Appropri-
ately enough—although unrelated in fact
“the board chose last term to write-off
goodwill totalling £2,590,410. *
Expansion in the post-war period has
been on an impressive scale, shareholders
•putting-up over £7.6 million, including
more than £2.3 million in share-premiums,
since 1948. A small part of these
premiums was returned in 1950 by a one-
for-25 bonus-issue. Last cash-issue was
in August, 1955, when 1,393,307 £1 ords.
were offered at a premium of 7s. 6d. in
the proportion of one new share for every
six held, paid capital reaching £9,928,149
last term on payment of the final call on
the new scrip. There are 175,000 £l9 p.c.
prefs. The ord. div.-rate climbed from
8 p.c. to 9 p.c. in 1949 and to 10 p.c. in
1954, the current 12| p.c. rate being
adopted in the following year, so that
over the past 10 years divs. have averaged
a shade over 10 p.c.
Production of fibreglass commenced in
October, 1956 (demand at first proving
rather sluggish), while another new unit,
the engineering works at Eildon (Vic-
toria), was completed late last term. At
present the Eildon plant is producing
moulds and dies and other group require-
ments as well as industrial-type fans.
Although offshoots manufacturing
glass-containers within Australia suffered
a reduction in turnover (due partly to the
effect of higher excise duty on beer-
consumption), group sales increased by
3.3 p.c. during the year to June 30 last.
The rate of increase was lower, however,
a 12 p.c. increase being recorded in the
previous term, and with the selling-price
of all major products unchanged, higher
operating-costs trimmed the profit-margin
on many lines. After eliminating the
interest of outside shareholders and set-
ting aside £1,366,467 (up £176,123) for
depreciation and £2,081,625 (down
£107,913) for taxation, net earnings
slipped by £139.305 to £2,131,949:
A.C.I. and .Subsidiaries.f
, Dividends —^
Net Pref.
Jne., Profit. 9 p.c. —Ordinaries Reserves.*
«££ £ , £
Exchange surplus, £l3BO .. .. 5,363,690
Share premiums, £895,620 6,259,310
Profit sale assets, £13,787 .. .. 6,273,097
Unexplained additions, £375,381 .. 6,648,478
’52 833,374 15,750 9 p.c. = 644,227 6,821,875
Share premiums, £282,439 .. 7,104,314
Profit sale assets, £5323 .. .. 7,109,637
Unexplained additions, £29,662 .. 7,138,299
’63 991,906 15,750 9 p.c. = 726,844 7,388,611
Share premiums, £512 .. .. 7,389,123
Profit sale assets, £14,803 .. 7,403,926
From tax reserves, etc., £294,926.. 7,698,852
’64 1,183,525 15,750 10 p.c. = 834,984 8,030,643
Profit sale assets, £3477 .. .. 8,034,120
Unexplained additions, £212,498 8,246,618
’55 2,424,126 15,750 12$ p.c. =1,044,980 9,610,014
To staff fund, £lOO,OOO .. .. 9,510,014
Share premiums, £348,129 .. 9,858,143
Profit sale assets, £6372 .. .. 9,864,515
Net unexpl’d additions, £181,605.. 10,046,120
’56 2,271,254 15,750 12$ p.e. =1,088,52111,213,103
X To staff fund, £lOO,OOO .. . .11,113,103
Share premiums, £174,361 . . 11,287.464
Surplus on consolidation, £104,151 11,391,615
Profit sale assets, £2060 .. .. 11,393,675
Unexplained additions' £113,572.. 11,507,247
’57 2,131,949 15,750 12$ p.c. =1,219,144 12,404,302
To staff fund, £75,000 ... .. 12,329,302
* Subject to intangibles written-off in 1957 against
a revaluation reserve created for that purpose,
f Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
Announced since publication of the
accounts, cuts in the rates of co.-tax
should be worth approximately £120,000
to the co., limiting the actual fall in net
profit to around £19,000. Adjusted
accordingly, the earnings covered the
pref. div. and 22.9 p.c. on the higher ord.
capital, compared with 25.9 p.c: in 1956
and 28.8 p.c. in 1955.
Formerly deducted from goodwill, a
£104,151 surplus on consolidation of
accounts was brought to light, reserves
benefiting from a further £174,361 of
share-premiums and £113,572 of un-
explained additions. Reserves include
£1,825,000 retained to cover the increased
cost involved in replacing fixed assets.
To eliminate goodwill from the books
and at the same time establish a pro-
vision against damage to, or loss of, over-
seas assets, ‘‘certain selected freehold
properties and investments” were revalued
last term, the amount brought into the
accounts (undisclosed) being restricted to
the exact amount required for these
purposes. *
The net addition to fixed assets, includ-
ing these adjustments, was £2,812,121,


£523,280 coming from new share-capital
and -premiums:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £8,534,842 £9,579,230 £9.928,149
Reserves . .. 9,510,014 11,113,103 12,329,302
Outside interests* 139,978 162,545 164,519
Mortgages .. 286,436 273,983 261,u29
Overdraft .. < 348,428 “
Sundry creditors 3,202,655 4,228,938 3,817,436
Staff fund . . 100,000 200,000 275,000
Inter-co. balance! —• 272,054
Tax provision.. 2,779,821 3,969,298 4,288,453
Final divs. .. 626,988 670,529 731,487
£25,529,162 £30,197,626 £32,067,929
Freehold .. 3,746,002 4,384,784 7,093,420
Plant, etc. .. 6,358,004 7,374,905 7,480,764
Shares, etc. .. 1,157,817 1,311,964 1,851,200
Stocks .. 7,457,688 9,637,493 10,775,169
Debtors .. 3,955,656 4,092,514 4,211,988
Bonds, cash, etc. 452,864 752,705 655,388
Inter-eo. balance! 15,777 259,065
Intangibles .. 2,385,354 2,384,196
£25,529,162 £30,197,626 £32,067,929
* Including proportion reserves, t Due to differences
in balance date.
Book-debts (up £119,474) increased at
much the same rate as turnover, but
stocks (up £1,137,676) rose by over 10 p.c.,
a £411,502 reduction in the amount due
to creditors leaving working-capital
£485,767 stronger at £5,611,623. When
the books were ruled-off net tangible
asset backing for the f.-p. £1 ords. was
455. 3d.
Although it has been necessary to
restrict output at the glass-container
plants, “business in the current term has
been quite good,” according to the chair-
man, the wide scope of the co.’s opera-
tions affording it a degree of protection
against sectional trading difficulties.
Nevertheless the board —and no doubt
shareholders, too —“will watch with in-
terest” results of the Carlton and United
Breweries’ decision to test market-
reaction to canned-beer. Virtually all
beer-bottles used in Australia come from
the group’s factories.
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
LARGEST of the Australian-owned
accident offices, Queensland Insur-
ance underwrites fire, marine and
accident risks in many parts of the world.
Lately it has been finding overseas opera-
tions hampered by the economic and
political conditions prevailing in certain
countries, while motor-vehicle and
workers’ - compensation claims have
proved troublesome (as they have to other
offices) but, for the past 10 years, there
has been no interruption in the steady
improvement of net earnings.
Sponsored by Burns, Philp (still a
major shareholder), the Queensland was
established in 1886, adopting its present
title some 20 years later. Bonus-issues,
the last of which was a one-for-three
affair in 1956, have provided over
£1,175,000 of the co.’s £2,500,000 paid
capital, the first cash-issue (one-for-four,
at par) in over 40 years taking place early
in 1951. This was followed in September,
1956, by a one-for-three par issue, most
of the new capital coming in last term.
The div.-rate has been steady at 12| p.c.
for the past nine years.
The extension of overseas activities and
an expanding home economy have helped
to quadruple net premium income since
1946, net premiums increasing by
£296,805 to £4,195,695 last term (to Sep-
tember 30), despite keen competition:
Net Loss Expense
Sept., Premiums. Claims. Expenses.* Rate. Rate.
£/ £ £ p c p.c.
1953. .3,040,480 1,495,828 1,184,899 49.2 59.0
1954. .3,119,449 1,651,667 1,197,171 52.9 38.3
1955. .3,570,955 1,913,830 1,328,439 53.6 37.2
1956. 2,290,246 1,338,472 58.7 34.3
1957. .4,195,695 2,420,200 1,436,431 57.7 34.2
* Includes contributions to staff fund, but excludes
taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
The high incidence of claims
workers’-compensation and motor-vehicle
policies has squeezed most of the profit
out of this side of the business, the fire
and marine departments providing the
bulk of the underwriting surplus. Never-
theless, both claims and expenses took a
smaller share of net premiums last year,
the loss-rate dropping by 20s. p.c. The
2s. p.c. improvement in the expense-rate,
while small, is significant as the third
successive reduction to be achieved
during a time of generally rising costs.
Representing a conservative 63.16 p.c. of
net premiums, the provision of unexpired
risks was raised by £200,000 to
£2,650,000, the underwriting surplus, up
£43,892 to £139,064, moving in the right
direction for the first time since 1953.
Previous tax-provisions were considered
adequate to meet liabilities in this direc-
tion, the £174,522 (down £5385) charged
against underwriting income being the
actual amount paid during the year.
Profits from underwriting normally go
to reserves and, represented by invest-
ments, help to swell investment-income,
which is regarded as the chief source of
dividends. After deducting rates, taxes
and property-maintenance, £155,513 (up
£19,219), the return from investments was
£30,798 higher at £362,262, covering the
12| p.c. div. with £73,200 to spare and
exceeding the amount required to
the higher capital over a full year by
£49,762.
All told, total net profit jumped by
17.5 p.c. or £74,690 to a record
£501,326:
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3,459,329
To reserve unexpired risks, £T225,000.. 3,684,329
1953.. 323,664 121 p.c. =152,344 171,320 3,855,649
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. 3.840,649
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 3,990,649
1954.. 370,932 12i p.c. =187,500 183,432 4,174,081
To staff fund, £15,000 .. .. .. 4,159,081
From inner reserves, £200,000 .. 4,359,081
To reserve unexpired risks, £225,000. . 4,584,081
1955.. 400,845 12J p.c. =187,500 213,345 4,797,426
To staff fund, £20,000 ~ .. 4,777,426
Revaluation freeholds, £500,000 ..5,277,426
Reserves capitalised, £500,000 .. 4,777,426
To reserve unexpired risks, £175,000 4,952,426
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 4,932,426
1956.. 426,636 12i p.c. =187,500 239,136 5,171,562
To reserve unexpired risks, £200,000 5,371,562
To staff fund, £30,000 . . . . 5,341.562
1957.. 501,326 12J p.c. =289,062 212,264 5,553,826
On average share-capital the earnings
equalled a return of 21.6 p.c. (investments
15.6 p.c., underwriting 6 p.c.) as against
28.4, 26.7 and 24.7 p.c. back to 1954.
Operations in Egypt were terminated
last year, the co.’s interests in that
country being sequestrated by the
Egyptian Government, while in India
and Pakistan a percentage of all insurance
business has been taken over by State-
instituted insurance corporations. A
diminution in future profits won over-
seas was forecast by the chairman (James
Bums) at last month’s annual meeting,
forcing the co. to concentrate “more than
ever” on Australian business.
The book-value of total assets has
doubled since 1950, increasing by
£911,051 last term to assure a continued
improvement in investment income:
r 1956 v 1957
p.c. p.c.
Govt, securities £3,796,238 34.6 £3,933,227 33.1
Cash, etc. . . 557,087 5.1 772,720 6.5
Shares, etc. ..., 2,420,720 22.1 2,627,690 22.1
Mortgages .. 1,055,541 9.6 1,229,179 10.4
Book debts .. 1,370,934 12.5 1,377,568 11.6
Freeholds .. 1,7625536 16.1 1,933,523 16.3
Total assets ~.£10,962,856 100.0 £11,873,907 100.0
Liabilities* . . 3,552,543 3,637,736
Net assets .. £7,410,313 £8,236.171
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies, but
excludes final div.
Invested funds were in much the same
form but, as in the two preceding terms,
the emphasis tended to drift from Gov-
ernment securities. Holdings of cash
were strengthened “in order to meet
known commitments.” Reserves, includ-
ing the £2,650,000 provision for unexpired
risks, total £5,553,826, affording both
policyholders and shareholders a high
degree of protection.
At 665. 6d. the f.-p. £1 ords. would
return a modest £3 15s. 2d. p.c. from a
continued 12| p.c. div. Net tangible cover
at September 30 was 645. sd.
Streets Ice Cream, Ltd.
r T'HE N.S.W. public has licked this co.
into pretty good shape over the past
23 years and was given the chance to
enjoy some of the fruits of its labor five
years ago, when the scrip was listed on
the Sydney ’Change. Since then earnings
have doubled, while paid capital remained
unchanged until half-way through last
term.
The business dates back to 1920, when
founder Edwin Street began manufactur-
ing ice-cream at Corrimal on the N.S.W.
South Coast, The co. was formed in
1934, establishing its first depot in Sydney
five years later. In 1947 a large factory,
claimed to be one of the biggest and most
modern in the industry, was erected in
the Sydney suburb of Turrella, the
absorption of Lynams Ice Cream Pty.
(Sydney) in 1950 adding that co.’s Parra-
matta plant to Street’s manufacturing
strength.
First stage of a new factory at New-
castle was completed early in the current
term, the four plants, which produce
approximately one-third of the ice-cream
consumed in N.S.W., supplying a market
stretching from Maitland (80 air-miles
north of Sydney) to the Victorian border
and inland to the Blue Mountains and
Canberra. The co. operates its own milk-
processing plant at Moruya on the South
Coast, but to ensure continuity in the
supply of milk and milk-products, a long-
term agreement was entered into last year
with the Dairy Farmers’ Co-operative
Milk Co., Ltd.
The div.-rate rose, in annual steps, from
11 p.c. to 14 p.c. over the three years to
1956, but without preventing a sizeable
slice of the earnings being reinvested in
the business, heavy expenditure on fixed
assets and the higher production in-
volved in extending the area served by
the co. being financed largely by retained
earnings. However, to improve liquidity,
strengthen working-capital and provide
adequate funds for current development
plans, 108,832 £1 ords. were offered to


0 m •*
Sl?*-!
Bswfe*s:w
BNHifiiD
;p
5?
mi
!»;
A FINANCIAL
BULWARK,
for thousands
of Australians
FOR ALL CLASSES
OF LIFE ASSURANCE
AND PERSONAL
ACCIDENT INSURANCE
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.„<£-*>
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
DIRECTORS: E. W. Robinson, Esq., Chairmanf
Col. R. S. Goward, C.8.E.; P. H. Phillips, Esq.J
1\ Keith Smith, Esq.; C. W. Rothe, Esq,|
8. J. Gandon, Esq.
Gen. Manager: W. J. Cooksey, B.Se., F.F.A,
GENERAL CREDITS Ltd.
Helps you expand your income with
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
SHORT
TERM
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 6}% compounded
on yearly rests with currencies of 5 to 15
years. Prospectus available all branches of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited.
Members of Stock Exchanges and Offices of
the company.
LONG
TERM
DIRECTORS: _
Eric Hughes (Chairman), V. H. Stanley-Low
(Managing), J. F. Hughes, J. M. Ford,
F. G. Menzies, C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
th»
M ot *
1*
j*OH
O
t»» s
WtOH
3*%
o
O
2
.*0
eA** s
o
o
5
10/
2 /o
G
O
2
Bankers for the issue i
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus and does not
constitute an invitation to subscribe for
the debenture stock mentioned herein.
7704
shareholders at par (one-for-
four) in November, 1956, tak-
ing paid capital, all in ords.,
to £544,162.
Although still below the level
reached in 1952, production of
ice-cream in N.S.W. has risen
steadily over the last four years,
increasing by 258,000 gallons
to 6,488,000 gallons over the
year to June 30 last:
Ice-cream Production in N.S.W.
Gallons. Gallons.
1052 . . 7,037,000 | 1955 . . 6,050,000.
1053 .. 5,322,000 ! 1956 .. 6,230,000
1954 . . 5,525,000 | 1957 .. 6,488,000
At the same time demand for
water-ices and similar lines
marketed by ice-cream manu-
facturers has also improved.
In contrast to weather condi-
tions in the preceding year, a
long summer helped to swell
Streets’ turnover last term (to
June 30'), sales and sundry
income rising by £159,296
(10.3 p.c.) to a record
£1,701,858. Prices of some
products were increased, but
profit-margins varied little.
Earnings before tax, but after
a substantially higher charge
for depreciation, increased
from 16.8 p.c. to 16.9 p.c. of
turnover.
Provision for taxation was
£7500 larger at £117,000 and
an extra £29,428 (£82,928) was
set aside for depreciation (based
on higher rates than those used
in the 1956 term), net profit
advancing by £21,255 to
£171,663:
Parent and Subsidiary.
Re-
Jnc., Profit. ( Dividend ——serves.*
£ £ £
’63.. 86,274 11 p.c. t= 47.887 185,945
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Add subsid’y reserves, £262 186,207
Tax overprovided, £17,639 203,846
’54..120,329 12 p.c. = 52,239 271,936
To staff fund, £3OOO .. 268,936
’55.. 129,095 13 p.c. = 56,593 341,438
Unexpl’d addition, £2824 344,262
*66..150,408 14 p.c. = 60,946 433,724
Goodwill w/off, £33,963 . . 399,761
’57..171,663 14 p.c. - 69,653 501,771
* Subject to intangibles, £40,300 at
30/0/*57.
Worth 34.5 p.c. on average
share-capital, compared with
34.6 p.c. in the previous term,
the earnings equalled 31.5 p.c.
on capital as it stood at June
30, making maintenance of the
14 p.c. div.-rate in the current
term appear a relatively simple
matter.
Covering extensions to the
Corrimal plant, establishment
of new depots at Newcastle and
Gosford and additions to the
motor-truck and -tanker fleet,
expenditure on fixed assets over
the year amounted to £249,418,
the balance-sheet disclosing a
comfortable financial structure
as well as the continuing all-
round expansion of the co:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital ..£135,330 £544,162
Reserves .. .. 433,724 501,771
Creditors . . .. 52,022 67,167
Tax provision 111,106 119,415
Staff fund.. . 5,236 7,236
PinaJ divs. .. 34,826 43,533
£1,072,244 £1,283,284
Freeholds .. .. 336,844 413,236
Plant, etc. .. 470,064 560,162
Stock .. .. 94,113 115,229
Debtors, etc. .. 46,442 52,906
Cash .. .. 60,518 101,451
Intangibles __ .. 74,263 40,300
£1,072,244 £1,283,284
Stocks tup £21,116 or 22.4 p.c.)
grew more rapidly than turn-
over, but with the help of
£108,832 of new capital a high
degree of liquidity was
obtained, holdings of cash and
bonds increasing by £50,933.
The first four months of the
current term have seen a further
improvement in sales, and com-
pletion of the present expansion
programme may well leave a
greater proportion of the earn-
ings available to shareholders.
Enjoying a wide dividend cover
and a strong asset - backing


m i-vm
AT SYDNEY CENTRAL
PADSTOW ★ TOP RYDE * NEWTOWN * LIVERPOOL
Snows invite you to earn
HIGH INTEREST
with a
SECURE IKVESTMENT
by depositing your money
with our parent company
COX BROTHERS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The deposits are well secured because they rank for repayment
before preference and ordinary share capital.
Assets exceed £16,000,000
Deposit Period I Interest Rate
Deposit Period I Interest Rate
5 years
3 years
2 years
1 year
71% p.a.
7% p.a.
61% p.a.
51% p.a.
9 months
6 months
3 months
5% p.a.
41% p.a.
4% p.a.
Any amount over £5O is acceptable.
For further information and application forms, please contact The
Secretary, Sydney Snow Pty. Limited, corner Pitt and Liverpool
Sts., Sydney. 'Phone 80968, or any member of the Stock Exchange.
(365. lid.) the f.-p. £1 ords,
sold recently at 555. 9d., return-
ing buyers at that price
£5 os. sd. p.c. from a 14 p.c.
div.
Raynors Holdings, Ltd.
CURRENT bids for Raynors’
scrip reflect the share-
market’s present wariness
where new listings are con-
cerned. The ss. ords. at ss. 6d.
return a yield of 9.1 p.c. from
a 10 p.c. handout —fair value in
a co. which has been expanding
steadily for 59 years and whose
diversified product - range,
servicing all branches of
industry, private and public,
including defence, is itself an
assurance against the vagaries
of the market.
Through its operating sub-
sidiary, which has occupied its
present modem works at
Punchbowl, N.S.W.', since 1955,
Raynors, self-styled “Jeweller
tc Industry,” turns out a vast
assortment of functional and
decorative components of
wide industrial application —•
plaques, metal - stampings,
plastic mouldings, die-castings,
dials, rating-plates and general
engraved, plated and enamelled
products. The .prospects for
printed-circuit boards, which
the co. manufactures under
licence, are especially favored
by modern trends in electronics.
The holding co. was formed
on March 14, 1957; to acquire
the ordinary shareholding in
Podger and Sons Pty., Ltd.,
which owns all the ordinary
shares in the operating co.,
Raynors Pty., Ltd. To fulfil
listing requirements, half the
subscribed capital of £165,000
was placed with the public at a
premium of 9d. a ss. stock unit.
Stockholders registered on
April 29 received a 15 p.c. div.
Earning-power is well up to
standard, and is increasing, as
shown by the annual net trad-
ing profits for the past six
years, calculated after allowing
for taxation and the proportion
attributable to outside interests,
which retain an equity of £9900
through 6 p.c. non-participating
prefs.:
To P.c.
June Net of Present
30, Profit. Capital.
1952 .. £12.948 7.8
1953 .. 13,206 8.0
1954 .. 24,588 14.9
1955 .. 26,565 16.1
1956 . . 27,699 16.8
1957 .. 28,103 17.0
Tax provided last term was
an adequate £17,500, while-
£7674 was allowed as deprecia-
tion on plant, conservatively
valued at £126,500 for forma-
tion purposes. Freeholds are
£150,090, substantially the esti-
mate of independent valuers
prior to the take-over:
Paid capital .. •• £165,000
Reserves .. .. .. 63,621
Outside interests .. 9,900
Long-term deposits .. .. 4 50,000
Overdraft .. .. .. 90,428
Creditors .. .. .. 143,120
Tax provision .. .. 17,500
Final div. .. .. 16,500
£556,069
Freeholds .. .. ~ 150,090
Plant, etc 133,623
Stocks . ... .. .. 88,270
Debtors .. .. .. 106,658
Cash . .. .. .. 464
Intangibles .. .. .. 76,964
£556,069
First accounts show a some-
what unbalanced financial set-
up ; current liabilities, £267,548,
including the sizeable overdraft,
exceed current assets, £195,392,
in the ratio of 1.37:1. The pro-
portion which stocks, £88,270,
bear to debtors, £106,658,
suggests an unusually rapid
turnover, and this is borne out
by the nature of the co.’s pro-
ducts, which would be mainly
manufactured in comparatively
small job-lots, with little carry-
over of finished-goods.
Nevertheless, the co. is
obviously not oversupplied
with working-capital, and with
outside money near saturation
point, any future remedial
action would probably take the
form of a further capital place-
ment.
Kalgoorlie Goldfields Petro-
leum, N.L., has acquired from
Morgan’s Gold Mines, Ltd., an
option over certain goldmining
leases about 25 miles from
Laverton, in the Mt. Margaret
district of Westralia.
The area will be test-drilled
by the Department of Mines,
which will meet half of the
drilling costs, the co.’s liability
being limited to £4500. If the
option is exercised the vendor
will receive £5OOO in cash and
£20,000 in f.-p. shares.
Present paid capital is
£93,977, excluding £80,682
received on forfeited shares,
buyers offering 6d. for the ss.
contribs. paid to Is. 6d., against
the 9d. asked by sellers.
Formed in October, 1954, to
prospect for oil, the co. later
switched its attention to beach-
sands, but the board, with an
eye on tumbling rutile prices,
dropped plans for working
areas on the N.S.W. coast
earlier this year in order “to
seek other propositions with a
better chance of greater
rewards.”


oil
LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY.
/
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Missing Friend
MARR, Claude Baden, known as
Richard, deceased.—WOULD his wife
Marie, or any person knowing of her
whereabouts or death, please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Bulk grain
storage saves
time-money
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder
on Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
required
• Prompt delivery A
LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
Write for further information to: *
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
S27AC
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
LECTION night revealed
- L -' a definite swing from
National to Labor. On the first
count it was clear that Labor
would have at least a bare
majority in the House ; whether
or not it would have a satis-
factory working majority was
undecided. Subsequent count-
ing confirmed that N.Z. is in
for another period of Labor
administration with all that that
implies in the way of controls
and restrictions.
The result was not un-
expected. On the eve of the
election Labor displayed its
trump-card prominently in
newspaper advertisements. In
an open letter to electors it
said:
You will have received your
income-tax demand. Please ta*.e a
look at it. If the tax due on assess-
able income stated in your tax
demand is £l, £5, £lO, £5O or any
sum up to and including £lOO,
providing you return a Labor
Government, you will not have to
pay income-tax in February next.
If it is more than £lOO, you will
have to pay only that amount which
is in excess of £lOO. Return a Labor
Government tomorrow and most of
you can tear up your income-tax
demand and use the money you have
set aside for income-tax payment as
fi Christmas benefit for the family.
There is little doubt that the
£lOO was the deciding factor
in the campaign.
The Labor paper, “The
Standard,” on its billboard
asked the blunt question: “Do
you want £lOO or not?”
Well, of course, most people
do want £loo—a nice round
sum.
Probably a good many
voters who were attracted by
the sound of it didn’t even stop
to consider whether they would
in fact get it. Some may be
disappointed.
At least 800,000 electors, for
instance, pay no tax at all.
There 01 will be no £lOO for
them. Many thousands more
pay only small sums in tax and
stand to gain little. Those who
do pay substantial tax would,
in any case, have been given a
rebate of 25 per cent., with a
maximum of £75 under a
National Government.
Labor’s successful bid for
power will cost somewhere
around £6O million by way of
tax-concessions and hand-outs
of various sorts. The Prime
Minister-elect, Mr. Nash, has
consistently refused to say
where he will get the money.
It will take some doing.
Labor is, in general,
opposed to overseas borrow-
ing. Internal borrowing is un-
likely to produce anything like
the amount required,
especially as Labor plans to
reduce interest : rates. That
leaves creation of credit
through the Reserve Bank,
which would be directly in-
flationary, or higher taxation,
which would also be inflation-
ary, in that it would be used
to transfer money from those
most likely to save and
distribute it to those most
likely to spend. From a
renewal of inflationary pressure
will inevitably arise a whole
series of controls and restric-
tions.
In a typically worded state-
ment Mr. Nash said recently
that Labor did not want
controls except those necessary
to ensure that everyone had
the freedom they should have.
Finance and imports had to be
controlled in some circum-
stances, but controls would be
to the minimum and competi-
tion, “as we see it,” to the
maximum.
That doesn’t mean much.
Mr. Nash knows, and so does
anyone else who had any
experience of his party’s earlier
14-year administration, that
one control quickly breeds
another and that the end result
is, inevitably, a distorted
economy.
Balance of Payments
The new Government’s big
problem will, of course, be the
balance of payments.
Here, it must be admitted,
the last Government has left
an awkward situation. By
premature easing of the credit-
squeeze and, more important,
by failing to restrain its own
lavish spending, it has allowed
overseas funds to be run down
to far too low a level. By the
end of October net overseas
assets were down to £71.5
million, and a week later they
had slipped to £66.2 r million.
Just how low that is can be
seen from the following table,
showing end - of - October
figures for each of the last five
years:—
£
1953 98,887,000
1954 98,172,000
1955 .. .. .. 75,740,000
1956 78,705,000
1957 71,500,000
The sum of £66.2 million
held early in November was
sufficient to finance less than
three months of private
imports.
Though the past Govern-
ment must accept blame for
the situation which has arisen,
it is very doubtful whether
stringent direct control of
imports, which Labor is
certain to reimpose, is the best
method of dealing with it.
The normal seasonal recovery
could probably be sufficiently
assisted by a tightening-up of
the credit - squeeze and a
determined paririg - down of
Government spending, with-
out the undesirable side effects
of direct controls.


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
CORNISH "CURLS”
By OSWALD PRYOR
CAROLS BY CANDLE-
LIGHT, a Melbourne
innovation of 1938, was not so
new to other parts of Australia.
More than 80 years ago, at
Moonta (S.A.) and still earlier
at the Burra, Cornish miners
sang “curls” underground by
the light of fatjacks (tallow
candles). The Christmas Eve
shift was too short to do much
in the stopes, so Johnny from
Penzance and Jimmy from
Camborne sat in the level and
“guv’n guts,” while Cap’n
turned a blind eye, though not
always a deaf ear.
The Cornish carol, according
to one authority (Ralph Dun-
stan, Mus. Doc., Cantab.), is
essentially a distinct type,
which owes its origin to the
Wesley revival in the eighteenth
century. During the whole of
that century, he says, there was
a rapid development of the
kind of hymn-tune which we
describe as “florid” or “curly,”
as distinct from metrical
versions of the Psalms. When,
therefore, the converted cock-
fighting smuggler-miners began
to compose their own carol-
tunes, they had a familiar type
ready to hand, which they
adapted and developed in their
own way.
Words were from the
Psalters, nonconformist hymn-
books and from “made-up
poytry.”
Characteristics of the tunes
were a florid air, a counter-
tenor, a rolling bass and
frequent “points of imitation,”
one part after another imitating
a short phrase proposed by the
air or the counter-tenor. The
“points of imitation” were
usually reserved for the last
line of a stanza, and in some
instances involved so mucji
repetition of words as to make
them sound ludicrous: e.g.,
“Go to Beth, go to Beth, go to
Be-e-ethlehem in a manger.”
In the numerous Noncon-
formist chapels, instru-
mentalists provided an
accompaniment to the singing
(there were no organs).
Favorite instruments were
flutes, clarinets, “sarpents,”
ophicleides, bassoons and the
grandfather fiddle. It is
recorded that on one occasion
at St. Feock seven bassoons
played the bass and “when
they all closed down on the
low F, it was like heaven.”
No Cornish carols were in
print at that time ; singers had
"I'm on compo."
to learn their parts, but each
player had a manuscript book
in which he copied his part. In
copying, players, and particu-
larly players of bass instru-
ments, often “embroidered”
their parts, and if to these
attempts be added slips in
copying the resulting harmony
was, at times, as cacophonic as
some of our modern music.
The men who composed,
sang and promulgated the true
Cornish “curl” were mostly
working miners living in the
Redruth-Camborne area, and
the Golden Age of production
was from 1790 to 1850. It was
this type of carol which
Cornish miners carried to every
part of the world, including
Australia.
Cornish carols are not con-
trapuntal and they all sound
alike, complained the music-
teachers, but that didn’t worry
Cousin Jack. When Christmas
came round, he made a musical
feast of his “Curls.”
In the old mining days at
Moonta preparations for
Christmas were begun weeks
before the event. Every miner’s
cottage was given an annual
coat of whitewash, batches of
saffron-cake were baked and
gallons of “swanky” (mild
home-brew) boiled and bottled.
Night after night young
fellows roamed over the mining
leases, practising the tunes
handed down by “voice and
ear” father to son, some
of them not even in manuscript.
A few tried their hand at
composing new tunes, mostly
cribs, but there was one opus
which has become a minor
classic. It is called “Calm
on the Listening Ear of Night,”
and was written by J. H.
(Johnny) Thomas, a leading
choirmaster. It was published
by the Education Department
and taught to children in some
South Australian schools.
In days gone by, Moonta
lads greeted one another with,
“What about a verse of
‘Carm On’?”
The opening phrase is taken
up by each part in succession
and a local conductor, after
explaining “ ’ow ’e d’ go” to his
choir, rapped out, “Neow,
boays, all together—wan after
t’ other.”
In 1890, Mr. Thomas edited
a collection of the better-known
carols. It was printed in
Germany and published by a
Moonta bookseller under the
title The Christmas Welcome,
with the subtitle “A Choice
Collection of Cornish Carols.”
The little book sold well and
ran to several editions until it
was forced out of print by the
war in 1914.
In the days of late shopping
groups of young fellows sang
“curls” in the main street on
Christmas Eve and in the pubs.
After closing-time (extended to
11 p.m.) itinerant parties
invaded private homes, by or
without leave, and, under the
benevolent influence of
“swanky,” sang until all hours.
People were afraid to go to bed
lest their slumber be disturbed
by “Martels Awake,” but on
one occasion a well-known
curmudgeon slammed his door
against all-comers. “What say,


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —Is Divorce.
TO GEORGE DREGHORN late of
Leichhardt.—TAKE NOTICE that
VERA' LYi/IA DREGHORN has Hied
a Petition for Divorce No. '2042 of 1954
on the ground of desertion without
just cause-or excuse for three years and
upwards and is asking that the court
exercise its discretion in her favour
under Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matri-
monial Causes Act 1999 If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th .day of
February 1958 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
GREGG & MILNE. Solicitors, of 4
Castleteagh Street, Svdney.—,).
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROLAND JAMES VAT.LANCE late
of Auburn. —TAKE NOTICE that
MONICA BELLE VALLANCE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3934 of
1957 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 14th day of February
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from E. G. SAYEGII,
Solicitor, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
PACIFIC ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(INC. IN N.S.W.)
TERM DEPOSSTS
INTEREST RATE
TERM PER ANNUM
5 YEARS 9 %
2 YEARS , 8 %
18 MONTHS . 7 %
12 MONTHS Si%
9 MONTHS 5 %
6 MONTHS 4|%
3 MONTHS 4 %
Interest paid quarterly, free of exchange within the Commonwealth, on the last days ©f
March, June, September and December.
PARTICULARS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM
Members of The Sydney Stock Exchange
and The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
or
PACIFIC ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
54a Pitt Street,
Sydney BU 2884
DIRECTORS:
Frank H. Edmonds (Chairman),
J. K. Faviell.
AUDITORS:
Flack & Flack,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.).
35 Fathdown Street,
Melbourne, N. 3 -* FJ 6035.
N. E. Challoner,
K. M. McCaw.
BANKERS:
Commercial Banking Co.
Sydney, Limited.
of
ADVISORY BROKERS:
Ralph W. King & Yuill,
113 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
boays,” said a wandering
minstrel. “Shall us give th’ oF
b r a verse of ‘ ’Ark what
means those ’oly voices’, ’n’
dam’ ’un?” Cousin Jack was
noted for the ease with which
he mixed piety and profanity.
On Christmas Day the band
played “curls” in Captain Han-
cock’s garden before breakfast
and carolling went on all day,
in the chapels, in private
homes, in the streets, on top of
the old horse-trams —anywhere
and everywhere.
In 1927 a Cornish Carol
Choir was formed in Adelaide
by third- and fourth-generation
descendants of Moonta pioneer
miners. Avowed object: “To
perpetuate the happy celebra-
tion of Christmas by the sing-
ing of Cornish carols.” Every
Christmas it broadcasts a pro-
gramme of carols from one of
the national stations, and in
December, 1948, a special pro-
gramme from Adelaide Town
Hall was picked up by Radio
Australia, and rebroadcast by
short-wave to Cornwall and the
universe.
“’T was like manna from
heaven,” said one of Moonta’s
native-born exiled in Van-
couver, B.C.
In California (U.S.A.) there's
another “Moonta” another
little bit of transplanted Corn-
wall, where they still bake
saffron-cake and sing “curls.”
Known as Grass Valley, it is
one of the early-day gold-
mining towns. About 70 years
ago Cornish miners who had
emigrated from the homeland
formed the Grass Valley Carol
Choir.
It was started in connection
with the Grass Valley Wesleyan
chapel and has never missed
singing in one or more of the
Christmas services. Some of
Ihe voices are nearly 80 years
old and some only 18. The
choir keeps up its personnel by
starting to train boys at from
eight to 10 years.
During the war it broadcast
on three successive Christmases
from the 2000 ft.-level at the
Idaho-Maryland mine.
For 40 years it has been the
custom to sing in the streets of
Grass Valley on Christmas Eve
and Christmas morning the
tunes brought from Cornwall
by the original miners. Visitors
come from as far as San Fran-
cisco to listen to “Seraphic Min-
strels,” "Lo the Eastern Sages
Rise,” “High Let Us Swell Our
Tuneful Notes,” etc. . . .
As Cousin Jack would say,
“That ’ll tell ’ee ’bout curls!”
Stage and Music
Adler in Melbourne
A dapper little man with
wavy black hair walked on to
the stage of a well-known Mel-
bourne concert-hall the other
evening and pulled something
from his pocket. It looked for
all the world like a meat-pie,
and from the manner in which
he buried his face in it he might
have been a hungry small boy
at the tuckshop. Whatever it
was that the Town Hall
audience expected, when the
pie began to sing as if possessed
of four-and-twenfy blackbirds,
it sat up and took notice. The
pie-eater was Larry Adler.
If there was an Australian
aboriginal in the audience,
which is doubtful, he would
have gone home dreaming of
the day when some white com-
poser will write a concerto for
orchestra and gumleaf. For it
was Adler, not the redoubtable
Victorian Symphony Orchestra,
who made the 10th and final
A.B.C. subscription concert
worth while. He played the
first concerto ever written for
harmonica —by contemporary
French - American composer
Jean Berger. The work isn't
particularly distinguished, but it
has plenty of life and rhythm,
and the technically difficult


EJ
m
ESANDA
LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
a wholly owned
Hire Purchase Finance subsidiary of
THE E. S. & A. BANK LTD.
ISSUE NOW OPEN
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
INTEREST CURRENCY
6 3 /«%... 10 Years
6V«% ... 5 Years
6% ... 4 Years
5 3 /a% ... 3 Years
interest per annum payable half-yearly
free of exchange in Australia
Underwriters of £500,000 of 6%% Notes
I. L. &C. BAILLIEU lAN POTTER & CO. ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN
CORPORATION PTY. LTD.
Prospectus and application forms from Members of Stock
Exchanges and at any office of
The English Scottish & Australian Bank Ltd.
(Incorporated in England)
365 Georgs Street, Sydney. > Phone BX 2331
Registered Office of ESANDA Ltd.
This is not a prospectus and does not constitute an Invitation
to subsoribe for the notes mentioned herein.
solo part is beautifully designed
to test to the utmost the
virtuosity of Mr. Adler.
The third movement, the
colorful allegro ma non troppo,
with its tempo-changes and
cross - rhythms, its brisk
exchanges between the
harmonica and the woodwind
section, and the dazzling
cadenza served as a final testi-
monial to the bewildering skill
and the feeling of the meatpie-
eater.
Corelli’s “Christmas” con-
certo got an uninteresting per-
formance, Ibert’s “Ports of
Call” suite received much the
same treatment, and it was not
until the mouth-organ man had
taken his bow and departed,
that the orchestra, under Kurt
Woess, started to climb the
heights in Richard Strauss’s
poetic “Alpine” symphony,
which shows Strauss’s deep
love of Nature and his ability
to translate it into glorious
music. The orchestra’s wood-
wind section, which always does
justice to its work, came
through often, well-defined and
clear, every now and then
answering the big organ and
breaking in and out of the
tonal patterns.
The “Alpine” symphony is
a kick in the side for opponents
of programme music, yet it is
quite able to stand on its own
legs, as pure music.
*l* ❖ ❖
“The Pyjama Game”
The singers who gave the
run - through of a musical
\ersion of “The Sentimental
Bloke” a few weeks back
climbed back into their
pyjamas for a Brisbane
run of “The Pyjama
Game.” A musical comedy set
in a factory looks frightening,
even if the product is pyjamas,
and this writer went along with
memories of a dull Czech film
about the life and loves of a
female operative in a silk-stock-
ings factory. Yet if “The
Pyjama Game” left the
audience a bit uncertain for the
first 20 minutes, the struggle
between management and labor
soon turned out to be
suspiciously like the basic plot
of half-a-dozen Ruritanian
operettas.
The cast took music and
dialogue with the utmost speed
and loudness, sped through the
slightly flat opening number,
whirled everyone’s imagination
around in an avalanche of
cleverly orchestrated sound
and, in short, persuaded us to
suspend any disbelief in
factories as places of entertain-
ment or in shop-stewards as
leading men.
William Newman was tall,
fresh-faced and in good voice
as the hero, and Toni Lamond
found her way into his arms
after a course of true love
beset by fused sewing-machines
and union officials.
There was some genuinely
funny business between Keith
Petersen and a zip-fastener, and
Jill Perryman stole some of her
scenes as a prim middle-aged
secretary whose sense of
dignity became wickedly lop-
sided whenever there was a
chance of mischief.
The chorus and orchestra
were noisy and efficient in a
wild song-and-dance scene in a
place called “Hernando’s Hide-
away,” and through it all slid
a clever actress known as Tikki
Taylor, who substituted for a
walk a refined wriggle that said
a great many things more
eloquently than either words or
music.
D.J.M.
Artbursts
Sydney Art Shows
Since artists never hang them-
selves until the last minute it
was not possible for The
Bulletin ,to inspect before
press-day the three Sydney
exhibitions to which it was
inv.ited this week.
However, in this season of
goodwill perhaps it is as well to
abstain from criticism and
merely to note that the
Grosvenor Gallery has a mixed


osbL
LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
AND COMPANY LIMITED
Now even faster handling of bulk grain!
LYSAGHT
Grain Augers
A completely new type now available to fill
and empty Lysaght silo*. Features Includes
• Unique centre-drive unit (patent pending
No. 22636/56) os shown in Insert below.
• Improved capacity.
§ All working parts eon*
pletely encased.
• Adjustable chutg
tube.
ME OUTPUT
HOLE AMD
COVER
INPUT
HOW TO SELECT A VERTICAL AUGER TO FIT
A LYSAGHT SILO—CENTRE FILLING ONLY
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
SILO
ERECTED
1,000 2,000 2,000 3,000 3,500 4,500 8,500
(squat)
Without Earth Ring Vl6lO V 2012 V 2412 V 2412 V2&14 V 3214 V 3414
With Earth Ring .. V 2012 V 2012 V 2814 V2BJ4 V 2814 V 3214 V4OlB
SILO AND EARTH RING PRICES
(F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
Bushel Earth
■ Silo Silo Ring
1,000 £l3B £l6 15 0
2,000 £2ll £25 5 0
2,000 (Squat) ■ £2ll £33 10 0
3.000 £275 £33 10 0
3.500 £298 £33 10 0
4.500 £453 £4l 5 0
Write for further information to:
JOHN LYSA6HT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. in ail Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
A 39 AC
Christmas exhibition including
a number of recent oil-sketches
of the ballet by William
Dargie ; the terry clune gallery
(.sic) offers “An Abstract
Christmas” of works by john
coburn, rov fluke, thomas gleg-
horn, michael kmit, margo
lewers, elwyn lynn, george
olszansky, carl plate and Stani-
slav rapotec ; and the bissietta
gallery (pardon ; the Bissietta
Gallery) has Christmas gifts of
paintings, pottery, etc.
The Orban Studio exhibition
at 2 Henrietta Lane, Circular
Quay, closes December 13.
The Bulletin was also
invited to the opening of “The
Gallery” at Carrick, Tasmania,
on December 7. It is showing
paintings, prints, pottery, etc.,
by “a variety of well-known
Australian artists” and would
obviously be well worth attend-
ing ; but, pending other
arrangements, it is rather a
long way to swim.
Films
“The Man in the Sky”
Test-pilot lack Hawkins
takes aloft a fully-laden proto-
type air-freighter, knowing that
its performance will decide the
giving or withholding of a
sizeable commercial order
which means everything for the
struggling aircraft company.
The representatives of the pros-
pective purchasing company
are critical passengers. ’
One of the two engines
catches fire and the trump,
from the ground, orders a
general bail-out, as he con-
siders the risks of an attempted
landing too great. The pilot,
after calculating the hazards,
decides to stay with the crate
after sending crew and the two
passengers home by ’chute.
The suspense during the half-
hour in which his initial steep
dive douses the fire, followed
by tests of the plane’s man-
oeuvrability, is well held ; there
is a refreshing lack of mock-
heroics ; and the backchat-
epilogue between the over-
wrought wife and the pilot, still
on edge, is- poignant and
natural.
An M.-G.-M. release.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Fortune Is a Woman”
Hawkins is also the hero in
this mystery-thriller, which has
more mystery than thrills.
This time he is an insurance-
assessor who gets on to the trail
of arson, with some fake-
painting transactions on the
side. That the wife of the
claimant turns out to be an old
flame adds zest to the assign-
ment, and when the husband
obligingly dies in a second fire
of his own making at his
ancestral hall one facet of the
finale comes crystal-clear. The
rest of the jigsaw-pieces drop
neatly into their allotted places,
and interest never flags.
Arlene Dahl is the one who
goes back into circulation after
her husband becomes the
victim of his own greed, and
who unwittingly draws the
insurance man into suspicion of
complicity into what looks,
prima facie, a case of con-
venient murder.
Greater Union release.
❖ * ❖
“The Sun Also Rises”
This overlong version of
Hemingway’s novel draws
heavily on spectacle-scerres, but,
particularly during a Spanish
fiesta and in a bullring,
director Henry King certainly
shows a master-hand with the
material.
There is a full quiver of
typical Hemingway characters
who drift through the proceed-
ings, and there is scarcely a foot
of celluloid in which someone
isn’t depicted waving a bottle or
otherwise making a goat of
himself.
Tyrone Power is rather less
splenetic than he had cause to
be as the journalist-ex-airman,
and Ava Gardner is over-slinky
as the torturer-in-chief seeking
an anodyne for her own frus-
aTl 10 ? 8 ’ Mel Ferrer and Eddie
Albert, caught-up in the slip-
stream of the Gardner high-
powered sex-appeal, turn in
easy performances ; and Juliette
Greco, a streamlined newcomer
ot vivid personality, bets her
curves on a loser and bows out
with a smile which has a lot of
Mona Lisa in it.
At Sydney Regent.
*** *** ***
. «t „
H.gh T.de at Noon
Characterisation arid atmos-
phere do much to offset the
slow pace and rambling plot of
this drama set in a fishing
village on a small Nova Scotian
island.
Alexander Knox is the bene-
volent patriarch who rules his
family and by tradition sets the
standard of ethics and conduct
for the crayfishermen who
W ork the island’s sole industry,
There is a fai^n of ro h .
necks with whom he is forced
to g et toU gb—backed up by his
three heft sons _ and there is
inevitab iy t he glib stranger
who arr j ves and marries the
daughter of the patriarch while
the lover who lost out watches
miserably as the marriage
disintegrates.
Be(la St . John is appea | ing
enough as the wind-blown
heroine, and Patrick
McGoohan is sneeringly effec-
tive as a disruptive lout.


ABORIGINALITIES
T SLOWED my fishing-boat as the tiny
-*■ craft was sailing past, and lifted it
on board. It was half of an unhusked
coconut that had been split lengthwise,
and made into a model boat by pressing
a strip of tin into the underside of the
husk to act as a keel. A stiff broad leaf
from a jungle tree was mounted for’ard
of the shell, which had been cleaned of
the white meat. If it had been made —as
I fancy—by some boat-loving Thursday
Island trocus-fisherman, it had made a
good voyage still with its “sail” intact.
I picked it up off Hinchinbrook Island
(N.Q.). —“Amdee.”
* * * *
“Alma”: While mustering around Boo-
ligal (N.S.W.) I have often come upon a
couple of big red old-man ’roos stoushing,
sometimes so intent with the fisticuffs
that they would be unaware of the
presence of an uninvited referee. Quite
often what I presumed to be the reason
for it all would be sitting a little distance
away in the shade of a saltbush —a lovely
little “blue-flyer,” hands demurely
clasped, watching with a nose-twitching,
nervous interest. It has been my
experience that it is the winner who
breaks off the engagement first, the object
apparently being to allow both victor and
vanquished some mobility.
“Narumee”: A commercially-valuable
swarm of bees having settled on a
branch of one of our apple-trees, we
phoned a near-by apiarist, and he came,
hot-footed, hatted, veiled, gloved, and
armed with a skep. The process of taking
the swarm, he explained, was simple—
you just held the skep underneath, and
gave the branch a gentle tap. It was
arranged that he hold the skep, while
Father did the tapping with a broom-
handle. Several gingerly taps produced
no result other than a more menacing
noise from the 2ft.-long mass of solid
bees. “There’s nothing to be afraid of,”
urged the apiarist. Father had another
go—much harder. The swarm dis-
integrated, most of it not into the skep,
but on the apiarial hat and veil. Ever
been stung by an apiarist?
* * * * >
“Wommadoo”: Largest diamond ever
found in Australia was no Koh-i-noor,
but, at 61 carats, was still a sizeable gem.
For comparison, stones most commonly
used in engagement-rings are between
quarter-carat and half-carat weight. The
big stone was found at Copeton, near
Inverell (N.S.W.), which produces some
of the best industrial diamonds in the
world. The gem-stones, however, are not
popular; too often they are straw-
colored or brownish, which detracts from
their value. Their lustre is often superb,
and when, as occasionally happens, a
stone is a first-water white and can be
cut, the result is magnificent. The field
had its heyday from about 1872 to 1902,
with sometimes the annual yield touching
12,000 carats. The “pipe,” or original
source of the diamonds, has never been
found, and some old hands inevitably
claim that untold wealth awaits its lucky
discoverer.
* * # *
“Manamoi”: In the U.S. use of tran-
quilliser-drugs has spread to sheep.
Ranchers who have injected their jum-
bucks just "before shearing them claim
that, instead of the usual kicking and
struggling, they behaved quietly. Aus-
tralian “gun”-shearers claim that sheep
never struggle if they’re handled properly,
and certainly no one could knock out a
big tally on struggling sheep. A “ringer”
of big sheds has great pride in Ijjs skill,
and the day someone asks him if he’d like
his sheep tranquillised before he shears
them his reaction should be worth
hearing.
* * * *
“Bemac”: Travelling along a Papuan
river in a dinghy with an outboard motor,
one bloke sat on the back ledge just
above the propeller. Unthinkingly he
changed position, sat too far down, and
—whoosh! —the whirring blades bit deep
. . . quite a messy affair. About a week
later, bedded-down in Port Moresby,
he sent a message to his mat£ still in the
bush: “Cheerio, Bill. Still chirpy, but
not as cheeky as before.”
* * * *
“Mako”: Set in a basin and ringed by
a low ironstone ridge, Marble Bar, in
nor’-west Westralia, can be relied upon
in midsummer to push the mercury up
somewhere between 100 and 120 deg. for
a month on end. But the only grouch
I’ve heard about the matter from any of
its few hundred inhabitants is that the
temperatures are now taken in the new
post-office at the top of Francis Street —-
and everyone knows that it’s at least four
degrees cooler there than in the old
building.
* * * *
TF a poll were taken to find the most
generous town in Australia, Katherine
(N.T.) would be hard to beat. It has a
population of some 600, yet last year it
contributed £5OOO to charities outside the
township ; from it Red Cross and Legacy
each receive an average of £5OO per
annum. Recently it ran an art-union to
raise funds for a civic hall, and sold 800
tickets at £5 each in the town. Yet the
Katherine is not a wealthy place. It has
no industries save some peanut-growers
and orange-growers. Most of the country
round it is held by absentee owners;
the civil servants consist of the staffs at
the C.5.1.R.0. farm, the P. 0., the railway-
station, Works Department depot, and
police-station—and none of them in the
higher-paid brackets ; those gentry reside
in Darwin or Alice Springs. “The most
genuinest little burg in Orstralia,” as ah
old battler once described it to me. —
“Sandpatch.”


An Aboriginal Song
{AN this page is an aboriginal song—the
lament of Tamparlooitimo of the
Tiwi people of Melville Island for her
dead husband —collected and translated
by Stuart Scougall.
Dr. Scougall has so far made two
expeditions to northerly parts of Aus-
tralia—the first, two years ago, to the
Mt. Olga country, the second, about four
months ago, into Arnhem Land—and
plans to go back again. Behind the trips,
he said, was a desire to know why
aborigines stand on one leg.
Not a joke, one realised, a second
later, but a serious piece of research
prompted by a remark by Professor
Elkin, the anthropologist, that the
aboriginal stance had never been fully
documented. A paper by Scougall, Dr.
Bateman, the superintendent of Darwin
Hospital, and an anatomist —probably
Professor Mclntosh—will throw a proper
scientific light on the subject in about
twelve months’ time. In the meantime,
at The Bulletin office in Sydney, in
a dry, unemphatic voice which made
necessary, more than once, a double-take
by the interviewer, the orthopaedic-
surgeon-researcher let drop interesting
bits of information- about aboriginals,
like pebbles on sand.
Tamparlooitimo, for instance, im-
provised her song at the Pooka-
moonee or final mourning ceremony for
her dead husband—the culmination of
from two to three months of ritual
mourning, during which the grave-posts
are sculpted. These grave-posts are some-
thing: from 6ft. to 15ft. high, elaborately
carved and colored and “unique in the
world,” Scougall said.
The background to the ceremony—
dancing black figures, the widow’s chant,
grave-posts—is impressive: square miles
of burnt, black pandanus. The widow’s
song goes on and on, and, within a
formalised pattern, follows what Scougall
described as a “stream of consciousness.”
Tamparlooitimo, it was explained, is
the widow’s formal, so to speak, sacred
name, which, for magical reasons, is used
sparingly; the fact that she revealed it
can be taken as a mark of confidence.
Her familiar name is “Roozie,” a
corruption of Rosy.
Stuart Scougall, who was born at
Maryborough (Q.) in 1889, is better
known ita Sydney as an orthopaedic
surgeon than as an amateur anthropolo-
gist. He has been associated with Ryde
Soldiers’ Memorial Hospital since 1921,
is consultant orthopaedic surgeon at
Prince Henry and has a big Macquarie
Street practice. /
And why, after all, do abos. stand on
one leg? The paper has yet to be
prepared, all sorts of data sifted. But as a
rough, tentative thesis —it seems the
stance is an alert resting mechanism;
which is pretty much what one
suspects. But, as innumerable scientific
observers have pointed out, it is one
thing to accept the fact that apples
fall, another to work out a theory of
gravity. It seems, too, that the habit is
disappearing with the need for it. —J. F.
THOSE hand-reared wallabies (“Sack,’*
B. 6/11/ ’57) would have retained
normal eyesight had vitamin-E been
administered; vitamiri'-C would not be
necessary. 1 have reared to adulthood
several wallabies and ’roos by the addi-
tion of a few drops of pure vitamin-E
to one of their daily feeds. It can be
TAMPARLOOITIMO’S LAMENT
Yerni orankoorilla dibinyooilla
Yerni koomatimooka yarkarlee
Karloo innee martoya marlee ngama
Ngnatha karloo hee imma indeea
Ngnatha karloo imma ndar pumgday
Nilga ngyoora tami tinki geeurnee
martea
Nilya karloo imma oontay borwa indua
Rangimi noopa kooroomee malarni
Natinga oomoonga ngeri martee roopee
Mooratamee umperra marnee wandar
Tootoobee ngnimee nixti ping karellee
koolookinga
Ruangninni ookee ree
Ngneree kumor. Ngneree kia wastee
eety
Curee ngneree oomoonga ngneree
nartee rupee
Onoora ngneree martee rupee aroolee.
Awa rapa eenee parma lingnama
Eepa moorowla ngtee rootee eyara piri
Ngooree nyooree oowanna noombie
iorama
Yernee gee imma wee nurmbi nyoonee
ooree
Karee sarpienee neeyah nyooree
martaroopee ormonee
Nooroongombaree noorikimoo
Eekee morlee glingtoopa
Eekee kooree. Karee eenee martya
marlee nama
Ranginni nay maka heemee nooree par
poorboona,
Eenee aranee chemee martya marlee
nama
Eenee tarpeenee mernee nilla, ranginni.
Ranginni karloo eenee martya martee
nama
Ilatee wia yoo nee, ilatee ree wia
Epooteera, karpee larloo baroowatti
Irrovileemee karpee larloo baroowatti
Mernumpuddee ootoora ilaroo
Porkwee binoora tooroota arpoodee
Porkwee cookwar guaneeree
Oowa toopa omee nara immunka
Wee nowoora immanka lyree napa ning
mari.
THE TRANSLATION
I remember the first undress
Showed me himself,
4tnd I lived with himself
And we lived
Till him finish
Into his spirit
Leaving lonely dreaming
Lie in our bed.
He does not come back.
1 want him coming back,
But the flesh never comes never
Can never join me any more.
He does not have me down there
He does not think it there
But he will come back
And I must make a shady tree.
He did one night me dreaming,
I thought it was true,
Sure sure it was him,
Till I rose clutching the clothes
But he was rose up and gone,
And I sat awhile crying and lying
One with him, me dreaming again—
What are you doing down there,
Where are you now?, I asked,
And you said you would come
To me like my nights,
And then another wake
Startled me seeing him
Rose up and gone twice,
With me sleeping and waking
And wandering away
Wondering wondering
If he could ever come proper back,
Or only with me dreaming—
But he will never come back.
Gone now from me warm,
Cold under the ground,
Soiled round by ground,
And cold only lies alone.
The sun is coming up,
And the sun is warm,
Warming and spiriting warm
He will come in with the sun.




obtained from a chemist in gelatin cap-
sules, and about 65.-worth has been
enough to ensure the eyesight of a joey.
It seems to me that Jo-jo, in his natural
state, receives this vitamin from his
mother—perhaps, in some way, through
her skin. In any case, a youngster being
reared without it will frantically lick the
skin of anything he can get near enough
to —a cat, or his boss’s legs or arms.—
“Yellow Fire.”
* * * *
“Q. Ree”: Fijians are very fond of
wearing colored woollen football-jerseys,
even in the hottest weather. But it comes
as a surprise to visitors to see them appar-
ently wearing red-and-black cricket-caps.
It is an illusion, though. Closer inspection
reveals brilliant red hibiscus stuck in their
short, crisply-curly black hair.
* * * *
“Banana”: I recall thrusting my young
head through a screen of thick under-
growth on the bank of Maria Creek,
near Innisfail (N.Q.), and staring down
the gaping maw of a 12ft. crocodile,
asleep on H sandbank in the sun. My
near-paralysed sensibilities took in only
the horrifying view of a double-row of
enormous teeth, until my mother, hard
on my heels, jabbed me in the rear with
her crochet-hook and" hissed, “Look at
the alligator-bird!” Only then did I see
the small brown bird running fearlessly
over the awful jaws. In casting back over
the incident I have always overlooked
the phenomenon of the bird in favor
of the fact that, once retired (silently
and fast), my mother resumed her
crocheting with no more concern than
if she had just left the weekly Ladies’
Aid meeting. And if anyone is unsport-
ing enough to question the fact that two
females were roaming crocodile-infested
country with no weapon other (hart a
crochet-hook—well, that’s my story, and
I'm sticking to it.
♦ * * *
“Kate”: Our local schoolie h2s given
up his favorite sport, clay-pigeon shoot-
ing. Felt he was a pretty good shot, too,
but he’s fed-up of being beaten by his
10-year-old pupil.
* * * *
“Beazle-Beazle”: A stranger to the dis-
trict, I called in to the pub to ask the
way to Koonooni station. Bung, tipping
correctly that I was a commercial, asked
what line I was travelling in. When I
told him mercery he said the blokes would
be in later, it being payday, but he added,
“Now you get to Koonooni this way” —
and gave me directions which landed me
miles from nowhere. Abandoning hope
of finding homestead or sheds, I eventu-
ally landed back at the life-saving station,
to find it crowded. Drink accounts had
been settled, new ones chalked-up. The
hands were broke again. I sold Bung’s
wife a pair of nylons which cut-out bed
and breakfast. I chalked that disaster up
to Experience.
* * *
“8.A.K.”: The ambiguity of the terms
(quite apart from slang) universally used
in the building-trade are mystifying
enough to Australian-born laymen, but
they must be completely bewildering to
New Australians. We “bone” objects by
sighting the top of one with another two;
perhaps our forebears in the Middle Ages
knew the origin of the expression. When
two perpendicular edges or articles sight
well with each other they are said to
“wind,” although they must of necessity
be straight. A “dead man” needs no
obituary; it is a temporary brick pier
sometimes built by a bricklayer as a
guide for his line. And one “lazy guy”
never gets the sack ; it’s a guy-rope pur-
posely tied slack behind a sheerleg to'
permit the structure to rock forward and
give clearance to the load being hoisted.
* * * * *■
“Buster”: “Harbel” (B. 16 /10/ ’57)
failed to make fire with a stick twirled by
an electric drill for one good reason: the
drill turned only one way, which would
polish the tip of the stick and so reduce
the friction which makes the fire. The
hand-twirling of the abo.-style entails
constant reversal which is the secret of
the method’s success.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: At the end of last
autumn l mentioned that the white-
flowering gum had blossomed sparsely
along W.A.’s south-west coastal plain
and that this was held by some to presage
a dry winter. I’ve since found out that,
although last autumn .the blossom was
sparse on individual trees, it was per-
sistent, and its season was longer than
usual; and that corresponded to the
winter. Few parts of the agricultural
areas got as much rain as they wanted,
but few had a drought, and there were
late rains over large areas —not good
rains, but about as good as the late
blossoms. I’m not crediting the trees with
forecasting properties; but if seasons
run in cycles, and have done for millions
of years, woulcf it be more remarkable
for trees to adapt themselves to their
environment in this respect than in all the
other ways in which they’ve evolved?
Karri, the West’s chief nectar-producer,
has a regular cycle of profuse blossoming
every few years.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: A Melbourne firm
distributed a batch of dog-biscuits which,
by accident in the mixing, had acquired
a full flavor of vanilla. They expected,
and got, a few adverse pet-owner
reactions, all mild and perfunctory. The
unexpected jolt they did get was when
the following corrected batch went out
vanillaless, and they were inundated with
complaints that Fifi and Fido were all
letting it be known that they were finding
the last batch less palatable.
# * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Reading Bird Wonders of
Australia, by A. H. Chisholm, I was
amazed at the sentence: “In all my
years of bird-watching I have never seen
an adult cuckoo carrying an egg or
actually visiting a nest, either before or
after its egg has been laid.” Well, mugs
for luck! I saw a visit while sitting up
in bed. It was the wild, shrill pipings of
the pallid-cuckoo that awoke me. That
bird, piping continually, was repeatedly
speeding past a sparrow’s nest in a. tall
box-tree. Five or six times the manoeuvre
was performed, without a movement from
the nest; then suddenly out shot a spag,
chasing the cuckoo, which wheeled and
headed away: Next, from nowhere, came
a silent pallid-cuckoo. I saw her fly
into the foliage around the nest and stay
there for, perhaps, 10 seconds. Then she
was gone. \Apparently ornithologists are
still undecided as to whether the cuckoo
lays the egg in the nest, dive-bombs it
there, or carries it per beak or claw. The
first can be eliminated —a pallid-cuckoo
could scarcely enter the limited opening
of a sparrow’s nest. Of the others —alas,
that I was so close to establishing the
truth, but hadn’t binoculars handy!
* * * *
“Stanus”: Mobile swing-saws have
largely replaced the broad-axe in many
N.S.W. sleeper-cutting areas, but when the
really big stuff has to be trimmed-up
(such as outsize girders and keels for small
wooden ships) the broad-axe cannot be
replaced. Incidentally, what is the largest
piece of hewn timber ever produced in
Australia? From the N.S.W. far south
coast came two 60ft. pieces 24in. square,
free of heart, which were cut during the
1920’s for a Melbourne dock. Any bigger
sticks?
* * * *
“Harry L.”: Never heard of “great
pressure on the shafts” breaking a horse’s
back (B. 18/$/’57), but have had the off-
side wheel of a well-loaded dray come
off. It brought the big shatter down.
To unbuckle the hames and breeching-
straps took only a few seconds, but to
unhook the back-chain was a man-size
job. The mare got up and walked away
unhurt.
AFTER having driven 200 miles we
camped beside the Cloncurry River
(Q.). It was a still day, with spent grass
ironed close to the scorching earth, and
dust whirling a mad can-can down the
rutted, cracking road. The red drought-
sun balanced on the horizon ; and the
galahs, with flash of pink under-wing,
went screaming upstream to roost. The
river was narrow and sluggish, moving
between crouching tea-trees and volcanic
rocks which spat stejjfn whenever a drop
of water was flung on to them. There was
a momentary stillness as the sun began
to set, a soundlessness that was the brief
twilight.
Then they came, out of nowhere, in
their thousands, clipping the water,
brushing the treetops ; and among them
and below there was no light. The air
vibrated with their shrill screaming, and
the earth seemed smothered in the teem-
ing vitality of surging wings. Still they
came, wave upon wave, like some bar-
barian horde swallowing a continent,
whistling and screaming a high-pitched
torment.
The noise stopped seconds short of
madness. It was night. Nothing moved
and the bush seemed empty. The biting
cold of the interior sneaked out of the
earth and a wind from the Centre surged
towards the coast.
Then, faintly, along the river drifted a
smell that was not of the bush, not of
the earth —a smell of ancient and for-
gotten caves, the indefinable mustiness of
bats. A hundred-thousand flying-foxes
were feeding.
ANUNAKA.
crouches, and buries
his face on his knees,
Lend hides in the dark
of his hair;
©or he cahncrt look up to
the storm-smitten trees,
0r think of tke loneliness
there—
Of the loss and the
loneliness there,
Sfhc wallaroos grope through
the tufts of the grass,
CtnA turn to their coverts
for fear;
/Dui he sits in the ashes
and lets them pass
Athene the boomerangs
sleep with the spear—
Viuth the nullah,the sling
and the spear.
behold him! eThe
thunder that breaks
0n the tops of the nocks
wi th the rain,
Clnd the wind which drives up
with the salt of the lakes,
made him a hunter
* . again
Cc hunter and fisher again.
fiJor his eyes I ave teen full
with a smoulJe ring thou ght;
ydut he dre .ms of the
hunt i of yore,
of foes tlit lie sought,
and of fights tha lie fought
With those wio will battle
no more
yVno will go i o the battle
no more.
(St is well that the water
which tumbles and fills
VM>ts moaning and
moaning along;
oor an echo rolls out from
the sides of the hills,
dZnd he starts at a
wonderful song—
(Sii the sound of a
wonderful song.
(2nd ke sees, through the
rents of the scattering fogs,
3b* corroboree warlike
and grim,
and the iubra wko sat
by the fire on the logs,
watch, 1 1 he a mourner,
_ for him
Ayike a mother and
mourner for him,
■m e go in his sleep from
these desolate lands,
a chief, to the rest
of his race,
rVith the honey-voiced woman
who beckons and stands,
(Hind gleams like a dream
in his face
Xike a marvellous dream
in his face?
(This mural by Joyce Baltis, for the headmaster of Belmore Teclinital College, Sydney, is on Kendall’s poem “The Last of His Tribe.”)


Yet, golden through the green
ibush, the light sifted down;
the pools, where a shaft struck
them, sparkled like crystal;
and there, when we peered over
the top of a huge grey boulder
into the last pool where a
waterfall made further fishing
impossible, swam the last, or
the first, the most miraculous
trout of the Kapuni.
A big fellow, too ; about a
three-pounder; a brownie, as
were all the Taranaki trout;
and like an incarnation of all
the charm and adventure of
fishing as, dappled^with sun-
light, he moved among the
bubbles in that solitary pool.
Williams stalked him over the
edge of the boulder ; hooked
him ; and, I am glad enough to
say, though he would have
been a noble capture, lost him.
Sunlight gladdened the land,
too, on that other great day
of exploration when Fin
Maslin and I pursued the
Mangahume up into the moun-
tain gorges—through that most
curious country where the
plains were studded with
hummocks as big as haystacks,
as if, under the grass, the
earth was slowly boiling. I
never knew whether they were
great blobs of lava hurled out
of Egmont in prehistoric
eruptions or whether they were
little, subsidiary volcanoes that
in some inconceivable convul-
sion had heaved themselves up
from the earth.
Through all that savage
country we fished our way up
into the forest glades once
more ; and, deep in the wilder-
ness, a much larger incarnation
of the bush than the trout of
the Kapuni, we came upon a
huge bearded sawmiller wjiom
we had last known, in all the
trim respectability of his pro-
fession, as a solicitor in
Eltham. He looked as clean
and brawny as any tree or
rock and made sawmilling
seem a much finer life than
that of the dank, musty legal
offices where my father still
spent his days (when he
couldn’t escape to the golf-
links) and from which, by
plunging into journalism for the
“Argus,” I had so narrowly
escaped myself ...
It would be hard to say
which of those seven rivers, in
sun or in rain, gave us the most
joy. They were all essentially
the same kind of river—rapid
and pool and rapid; clear
water, rounded pebbles, little
beaches of sand and shingle, a
music of bubbles and boulders
—and they all had plenty of
flout. And, threading that
general resemblance, each had
its cherished particularities.
If the stretch of the Wai-
ngongoro up and down from
the road-bridge hardly counted
as fishing water —except for the
one big day by the bacon-
factory when, as well as catch-
ing many lower down, we saw
fine tantalising trout darting
away from us over the clear
rock-bed near the bridge—that
river everywhere else glittered
with more delight than any
other river on earth: it is
another story. And even there,
by the bridge, it gave my
extreme youth a Saturday that
shone beyond all Saturdays
when, exploring the Council
rubbish-dump after Wilkin-
son’s hardware-store burnt
down, we picked up such
wonderful treasures as fire-
blackened tin-openers, padlocks
that wouldn’t open, and even
pocket-knives with the handles
burnt off.
The Mangatoki was too
narrow, deep-gorged and over-
hung with blackberries for us
to bother with from the road ;
but, when I crossed the
paddocks to it higher up with
the ranger, we had one memor-'
able day when —arguing most
incongruously at intervals
about Mrs. Simpson and the
Duke of Windsor; whom I
supported and the ranger did
not —I caught a couple of unex-
pected two-pounders and then
could catch no more, though
every fish in the river began to
rise, head and tail, “nymphing,”
scorning worms for the hatch-
ing larvae of the stoneflies.
The Kaupokonui was where
we fished so often in vain for
the enormous trout under the
road-bridge, fattened on curd
from the dairy-factory and
never to be persuaded to look
at any other bait. The rest of
the stream, being reserved for
fly-fishing, terrified us. But
one evening when I did fish it,
after I had advanced to the fly,
I saw a< exciting an evening-
rise—and as maddening ; for I
couldn’t find what they were
takings—as ever I saw any-
where : trout rising by the
dozen, quietly ringing the
surface or leaping into the sun-
set, until the whole, river
seemed alive with them. It was
in the Kaupokonui, I think,
that Maurice Fitz Gerald and
Fred Vincent, really expert
anglers, caught 46 trout one
Sunday—and told all their
rival anglers in Eltham that it
was in the Kapuni. And the
next weekend, while everybody
flogged the Kapuni, they went
back to the Kaupokonui and
caught another twenty or thirty
good fish.
The Kapuni was where, as
well as my fishing into the
mountain gorges with the
ranger, Fin Maslin and I were
so notably chased one night by
a bull (or it may, I am ashamed
to say, even have been a cow)
dashing down at us from
the skyline and splashing into
the stream after us as we fled ;
and where, one sunny after-
noon, in a little pool not far
down from the bridge, I came
upon one of those curious
“pockets” of trout that some-
times so signally reward the
angler’s patience, and caught
five of them one after another,
smallish fish, but takeable.
What they were doing there,
why they were congregated—
they were not held up by a
stone causeway, as were the
fourteen fish Horry Lapthorne
and I took out of a hole in the
Duckmaloi years later—l know
not. But five trout out of one
pool, when three or four out
of a wide river was normally a
good day’s bag for Taranaki,
was good fishing.
The Tangatara we fished
more often than any of the
other rivers. There were big
fish there, plenty of three- and
four-pounders, and it was a fine
wide river—but not too wide —
running through rich green
dairyfarms where the axe and
the plough had still left scrub
and willows along the banks.
There, the most enormous
trout I ever saw rose up and
looked at my worm, turned
away and sank for ever out of
sight. There, for ever in my
mind, short and dark in his
black-and-white striped New
Plymouth Boys’ High School
blazer, Fin Maslin plunged
waist-deep into the rapid to try
to disentangle my three-
pounder from the barbed-wire
fence into which it had fought
—racing downstream from me
while I tried in vain to check
it—and lifted it up for one
glorious moment in his net,
then somehow dropped it out
again. There, another singu-
larly well-educated three-
pounder dashed straight up a
rapid and climbed into a
fallen tree.
* There, the most furious and
majestic of all the Jersey bulls
that so much enlivened our
days leapt off a high bank and
swam across the river at us like
a whale. And there, one day
when Caleb and Fin and I
basked in the sun on the bank,
we met that most diverting
poacher who strode along the
riverside, tall and lean and sly,
and told us he had taken his
five nice trout “on the Coach-
man.” He did have a fly at the
end of his cast; but, protru-
ding guiltily from ms pocket,
was a lump of illegal, of scan-
dalous, of altogether unmen-
tionable curd . . .-1 tried it
myself once but did no good
with it.
We caught big fish in the
Waiau, too, as well as hail-
storms, travelling far up its
winding course towards the
mountain and —on the day 1
remember best —swinging the
“minnow” (a little spotteu arti-
ficial fish, finned with hooks
that caught in your trousers,
your coat, your net and all the
bushes) over its long pools.
I used to feel strangely ill-at-
ease, as if I was trespassing,
fishing the Waiau, for it ran
very close to Opunake and was
sacred to my most distant
childhood when we took a
beach-cottage there and, on
days of great adventure,
clambered and ran round the
rocks to the Waiau’s mouth. I
saw a trout-fisherman near the
mouth, in those far-off days,
i catch two fat spotted “butter-
fish” —so, whatever they were,
he called them —using green
willow-leaves for bait: a most
exotic performance as he
'dropped the leaves to them
where they lay clearly visible
under the cliff and hauled
them unresisting across the
shallows. It did not seem right
that a place so hallowed, so
far atvay, to be attained only
as the climax of six weeks’
holiday at the beach, could be
used for a day’s fishing from
Eltham.
(<Continued on page 72)


mmwNfs memcmsr
FORM OF FUHTFRY.
'fobfu&cn
THE MOST COPIED TRACTOR IN THE WORLD...
•.. BUT NOT EQUALLED YET, because Ferguson ahead of all others,
provides these features ...
• Efficiency of operation.
• Power without inbuiit weight.
• Simplicity of handling.
• Flexibility and manoeuvrability.
• Maximum economy.
• The most advanced hydraulics yet
introduced.
• Scientifically designed, quality built
implements.
• Low initial cost —high resale value.
• On the farm service second to none.
Petrol Model
Priced from
£BlO
Kerosene Model
Priced from
£825
Diesel Model
Priced from
£989
Prices: Ex Warehouse, Brisbane
60,000 Australians have
chosen FERGUSON in the last
IO years!
For further particulars contact
BRITISH TRACTOR & IMPLEMENTS PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY STREET, NEW FARM, BRISBANE. Phone: LW 1011


"And Father Christmas brought you a pen the same color as your cheque-book , dear.”


NOW- A Fountain Pen
that Bft BATHES
6he wonderful NEW
Onoto W
Instant Starting . • . No Flooding
No Leaking ... No Drying Up
The new Onoto “99” starts writing the instant
its nib touches paper. Thanks to a special
“breathing” system,. the ink flow is perfectly
controlled always, giving you fast, smooth, clean
writing all the time.
-—and a choice of nibs to suit
your hand exactly
There's an Onoto “99” nib to suit every style
of writing from finest to broadest. And because
the nib unit is easily changed the one
that suits your hand exactly can be
fitted right at the counter where you
buy. See the new Onoto “99”
at any good store.
' A "° «M» r
l lfT *» I
o*o*'
■
Onoto “99’* Pen and
Pencil Set. Attractive
Gift Box .. 75/-
Other Onoto Sets from
52/6
£T%
New "Breathing*
Fine tube inside
barrel feeds air,
controls ink
flow exactly.
0
New Filler
Concealed filler
trigger. Easy to
use. Quick, posi-
tive action.
New Easy-t»-
Change Nib
Can be changed
when you buy
to give you the
nib that suite
you beat.
ONOto •
@0
In Black, Blu«t
Green, Maroon or
Grey. Gift Boxed.
Other Onoto Pena
from . .... 28/6
Onoto
PENS, PENCILS
BALL PENS
Manufacturers: Norman Baker & Longhurst Pty. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne
6.0.87
Reporters, Etc.
By JACK LUSBY
AT one time I wanted
to be Tom Mix and hare
round on a horse shoot-
ing off a lot of bullets
and scooping up sheilas on the
run.
Then I read a book about a
newspaper-reporter who in his
first week on the job was
assigned, to China, bossed a
bandit outfit, lived on loot,
cabled-off scoops and returned
to a grateful nation, the editor’s
chair and owner’s daughter.
There wasn’t much between
him and Tom Mix. They both
got it free and easy.
I never became one or the
other, but did eventually find
myself ensconced in news-
gatherers’ beehives watching
the inside whirl and the sally-
ing and homing of the workers
on their mysterious missions.
And, thank God, in even the
biggest and busiest newshives
there were men of the long-
loop lariat and the dogleg
beeline who made it worth
watching.
There was McHaggis, a
senior man, who ran a truck-
ing business and s.p. on the
side. A junior reporter would
sometimes find himself assigned
to drive a truckload of furniture
to some distant part of the
city. And on one busy Saturday
many of the news-phones
became unaccountably jammed
with betting-traffic.
Eventually the indomitable
McHaggis held too much
money on too fast g horse and
travelled inter-State on the first
plane available. In his new
city he quickly combined news-
paper work with a fruit-barrow
and is now in comfortable
circumstances.
©UNION was an inter-
state representative, remote
from the home office, who
began driving a cab during
lulls in his work. The lulls
were fostered and rostered to
allow expansion in the cabbery.
With the advent of relief
drivers the latter business
generously allowed its pro-
prietor time off to handle his
news job.
With all this on his mind
Gunio,n, didn’t flinch from his
obligations to the opposite
sex and managed to keep two
concurrent affairs from clash-
ing. Yet he never looked
flurried or hurried. Just
drowsy.
DN one big office my quiet
cartoonist’s cubicle was out
of the main current, just across
a corridor from the general
reporters’ room where news-
hands were under the roving
eye and beckoning finger of
the glassed-in chief-of-staff.
Reporters sometimes dis-
appeared off the face of the
earth for a few important
moments by doing a Houdini
into my room, where for some
reason no one ever looked for
them. They’d yarn away
casually with one ear identify-
ing the beat of various boot-
soles along the corridor.
Boots making a too leisurely,
proprietorial sort of noise often
dried-up the font of easy chit-
chat, and the caller would
stare at the air-condition door-
vents as if he expected cyanide-
gas to come through.
“That was the editor,” I said
on one such occasion.
“You’re telling me/”
“Funny he went by,” I said.
(Continued on page 63)


m
Sfi
m
rilMss
%
G
ill
!«■
S AFEIy
i
*
mm
m
i t
l
::xW
$£ §|
'
m
/:
r:<i
m 1
b 4
Nw*:
WM\
=?g
U 0668
G
ill
6 *f
VS
"'-■k
.j*
%
>c
*
n:
v
<*>
wm
v
9>
This luxurious
66 Set in
lizard grain case
45'-
Give him
for years of
refreshing shaves
The smart
Rocket Set in
plastic case
only
Make his Christmas happy with a handsome Gillette Razor
Set the gift he’ll appreciate for a lifetime of
refreshing shaves. From the moment he deftly slips
Blue Gillette blade into quick-action razor and whisks
it over his face, Gillette will give him the most
satisfying shaving experience he’s ever had.
in rich red
leatherette
32'6
10-Blade or iif
20-Blade Dispensers *
make a really
practical Christmas Gift
at and j
WHEN YOU GIVE HIM GILLETTE . . . YOU GIVE HIM THE WORLD’S FINEST SHAVING SYSTEM


A Page of Verse...
THE CITY HAS ITS SEASONS
The city has its seasons
And like the sea
Its ceaseless senseless tides.
The seasons are Easter
Winter sales spring shows
And Xmas.
Ex meaning formerly
A Christian feast
Now commercialised for vultures.
All these may be observed
From the work of the window-dressers
On your walk.
And the tides twice daily
Ebb and flow
Not day and night
But sell and cinema.
The city has one time
The country doesn't know
A dead time
Weekly when the shops shut
Daily when the trams stop.
Queensland.
R. G. Hay.
CRIME STORY
They say that when a murder victim
dies,
A face is fixed forever in his eyes;
The colors never run, the image still
Looms through the retina its bleak
surmise.
It is a tale. The other night I rose
And walked a beach, and saw the
seagulls close
Tonged claws upon the carrion they
killed.
Two lovers there embracing* I suppose,
Or rocks humped high to trick the
wandering brain;
So may those nets, those masts, that
gutted wain
Have seemed, not been; so the
stretched limbs, the shrill
Cry of that dying seaman in his pain.
His lids were closed. It seemed no
gaze was left.
Yet when I looked into the warp and
weft
Of veins, I saw no image of a will
That someone drove upon him in the
cleft
Under that rock's dead brow. Only a
gleam
As though he'd smiled when, waking
from a dream,
He saw the arm strike downward; the
blood spill
Coldly upon a splintered mizzen-beam.
I think whoever slew him filled a need,
Plumped some dark hollow, satisfied a
greed,
And rode away. I cannot know it till
I meet her riding lifeward on her steed.
N.S.W.
Charles Higham.
VETERAN REPORTER
Here where he first met life in all its
forms,
Learned of the miracle of Clementina
Clay
(Whose quads arrived each one a week
apart)
And of a calf that grew
Halfway to two-headed bufidom,
Here where he suddenly knew
The Friday night dementia of Joe Flox
(Who drank his gin and with the bottle
slew
His missus),
Learned of a ship in agony at sea
And talked through distance to the
red-eyed men
Of gentle townships swept alternately
By fire and flood,
Where in pretended patience he gave
ear
To constant yatter of a thousand
tongues,
He may be found one day . . .
Here where he met all life and helped
translate
The city’s ways to words of ink and
steel,
He may be witnessed coldly sitting still,
A telephone in hand,
A voice he did not answer shouting:
“Hey,
Hello, hello, hello, hello, hello . . .”
He having sent his other half to take
His quickest, last and most dramatic
call
And yet not make a paragraph at all.
N.S.W.
Ian Healy.
AT CIRCULAR QUAY
Proved to himself at Circular Quay
That man at least is more than a fish;
For though so like the whitebait shoal
That silver in green waters gleamed
Under the wharf and round the pole,
Round and round the people swam
By bus and ferry, train and tram,
With no more meaning so it seemed
Than any glinting speck of the sea
Caught on the wheel of endless motion,
It was a fact that no fish can
Compose a poem on a man,
Yet any man if so he wish
Can pause one moment in his ocean
To write this much about a fish.
NJS.W.
Douglas Stewart.
CHRISTINE
“Hullo, dearie, got a match?”
“Why, yes, now. Here we are.”
“Can I come with you?”
“Sorry, sweetheart, I’m too busy.”
“You really busy?”
“Worse than that, I’ve got troubles.”
“Then let’s talk them over.”
“Talking’s no good. You know that.”
“Let me come with you.”
“Some other time, sweetheart.”
“All right, some other time.”
I lied to you, old blowsy Chris,
Whose sum of sin has come to this.
My troubles and my busyness
Were there because your blowsiness,
Your sloppy face, your dish-rag lips,
Your fallen breasts, your barrel hips,
Were there upon the pavement too.
I might have said yes to someone new.
Of course, you understood, old girl,
And turned back to your window-sill.
The low-down ledge gave to your
rump
Response between a squash and
thump,
And so you squatted and you sagged,
A limp conglomeration bagged.
You smelled of cabbages and grog
And looked as lonesome as a dog.
You lit a cigarette. Its tip
W'as sooted scarlet like your slip
(I mean the cotton one that shows)
And glowed beneath your glowing
nose.
The street-lamp stroked your dye-red
hair
And streaked it with a greasy smear,
While shadows round you, windowed
in,
Bestowed a beard upon your chin.
You know, sweetheart, you are the
rage
Of all Salvationists. They gauge
You as the lost, lost soul, aghast
Because your beats and sidewalks last.
The earnings of your off-street ilk,
Through arts of flaunted sex and silk,
Make solemn synods’ blood run cold.
What do you think, now you are old?
Or can your raddled brain declare
No thought except the formula
“Hullo, dearie, got a match?”
Or “Can I come with you?” to catch
An evening proposition by,
Or, rather, .shall we say—to try?
Well, then, what of your heart, fat
Chris?
How do you feel about all this?
“You really busy?” . . .
Q.
David Rowbotham.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
“The Giraffe”
Who was it said “Australia is
a land of statues”? Those
Bendigo people who are think-
ing of spreading their dough on
bronze (B. 30 /10 / ’57) should
think again and be influenced
by “Operation Leave Pass” (B.
6/11/’57). That is a real
memorial!
I’ll bet that “The Giraffe”
wouldn’t like Bendigonians to
collect £3OOO and spend it on a
hunk of bronze in his memory.
Maybe there’s still a “poor
woman down by the Billabong
—her husband cleared out and
left her with a lot of kids.”
Maybe there’s a brain worth
encouraging among those kids
—scholarships are a big help.
How about a projector and
reels for the kids’ ward in the
hospital? There are hundreds
of ways of erecting an everlast-
ing monument to honor the
memory of a “good bloke.”
I’ll give a few bob to help
the needy living, but I can’t see
sense in bronze, granite, or
marble, and I hear creaks in the
coffin of “The Giraffe” if they
“dunnit.”—H. E. S. (Q.).
Council Finance
“Wusslean” (B. 13/11/’57)
is right off the beam if he thinks
that local authority in N. S.
Wales is “limited in powers and
answerable for its actions to
ratepayers.” Granted, the
council can’t put the ratepayer
in the stocks, but it can almost
send him “up King Street.”
What limitation is there to a
council’s powers? It can
resume properties at will, or,
worse still, threaten to do so.
Its taxing-power appears to be
governed by the amount if can
extort without actually inciting
ratepayers into open revolt. It
can float loans, inter alia, to
create civic centres and costly
administrative quarters, and to
provide amenities (libraries,
swimming - pools, etc., of
Olympic proportions) mainly
for the benefit of non-rate-
payers and tourists.
A council can select a street
in a remote, sparsely populated
area (four homes), but leading
to a “£5-deposit-no-interest”
subdivision of bushland, and
kerb and gutter the thorough-
fare and saddle the adjacent
land-proprietors with the cost,
in proportion to frontages.
I’ve seen that happen and
there’s no redress —you just
pay up.
The system of levying rates in
this district is of the “painless
extraction” type. The Valuer-
General every three years up-
grades the valuation of the land
in the city boundaries and on
this valuation, the council,
during the ensuing three years,
levies ever-increasing taxation.
For example, the tax on my
bush shack in 1949 was approxi-
mately £l2. Next year, the
V.-G. went berserk and rates
rose sharply to £25-odd ; then
to £35, £39-odd, and this year
to £4l. Next year, if it goes to
£45, how can 1 complain! It’s
only “a small increase due to
inflation.”
As the salaries of ' the
council’s hierarchy are deter-
mined by the revenue gathered
in, there is no incentive for
officialdom to curb the tax-
grab.
Unlike any other form of
democratic government, there’s
no Opposition ii* local-govern-
ment chambers. The aldermen
or councillors, as a body,
nominally rule ; but, in fact,
power rests with council’s
executive-officers.
Finally, local authority in
N. S. Wales is not answerable
for its actions to the rate-
payers. Those bunnies are just
there to provide the bunce.
Every Tom, Dick, Harry and
Harry ess over the a|e of 21,
responsible or otherwise, living
within the boundaries of a city,
municipality or shire, has a
vote equal with that of the
ratepayer, and, at any election,
could, en masse, control the
personnel of any council to the
exclusion of ratepayers’ nomi-
nees. —Y. Mee (N.S.W.).
*
New States in Queensland
Now that Queensland has a
Government pledged to support
the move for new States, back-
blocks politicians throughout
the State are enjoying an open
season on the question. But
what a pity that such a reason-
able and necessary programme
should be marred in its early
stages by so many fantastic
proposals! Hie recommenda-
tions of the conventions which
have met to discuss the problem
are politically unreal. At its
present rate of progress North
Queensland should have suffi-
cient population within the
next 10 years to warrant the
setting-up of a new State, but
central Queensland is far
behind the north in this respect.
It is in the more popular
and immediate proposals that
the least sense of reality has
been displayed. One might,
with some adjustment, learn to
be called a Capricorn ian, but
never a Burdekineer. Biloela
and Emerald have been
suggested as capitals for the
proposed central State, while
“H. G. L.” (B. 13/11/ ’57),
presses the claims of Cooktown
as a capital for a northern
State. Administration must be
where the population is, and
initially will require adequate
buildings to house it. This
means, in effect, that Towns-
ville and Rockhampton have
by far the best claims, though
neither seems to have been
mentioned.
New States will only come
with popular support. Why
begin by alienating it? — Fao
(Q). _____
Queensland Tourists
Tourists and travellers in
Queensland, including Surfers’
Paradise (B. 9 /10 / ’57), are
often caught by the legal angle
that permits proprietors of
premises, licensed and other-
wise, to charge a tariff based on
the number of beds in a room
should the traveller desire the
exclusive occupancy. My
personal experience of this
charge has extended over 10
years’ winter holidaying frf
Queensland from the border to
Cairns.
While this anomaly continues
the standard of accommoda-
tion, however good these
double- or treble-bedded rooms
may be, cannot be considered
satisfactory by any standard.
For example, a circular
indicates that, for the Christmas
"Now this is unique—one of the master's posthumous Works!"


Australian Books of Today
THE SCHOLARLY MOUSE and Other
Tales by Dal Stivens 15/- (post 7d.)
TOWN AND CITY: Tales and Sketches
by David Rowbotham. 13/6 (post 7d.)
THE BUNYIP OF BARNEY’S ELBOW
by Brian James—short stories.
1 6/- (post 7d.)
COAST TO COAST 1955-56
Australian Short Stories of Today
selected by H. Drake-Brockman.
17/6 (post 9d.)
BRIGALOW
by R. S. Porteous—a novel of country
life. 17/- (post Bd.)
SUCH IS LIFE
by Tom Collins. 25/- (post 9d-)
ALL THAT SWAGGER
by Miles Franklin. 25/- (post 9d.)
CAPRICORNIA
by Xavier Herbert. 25/- (post 9d.)
TWO MEN I KNEW
by C. E. W. Bean—the story of William
Bridges and Brudenell White, founders
of the A.I.F. 25/- (post 1 Id.)
DREADNOUGHT OF THE DARLING
by C. E. W. Bean. 21/- (post 9d.)
STRANGE NEW WORLD
by A. H. Chisholm the adventures of
John Gilbert and Ludwig Leichhardt.
30/- (post 1 1 d.)
WHO RIDES ON THE RIVER?
by J. K. Ewers—Charles Sturt’s epic
journey. 21/- (post 9d.)
JOHN MACARTHUR
by M. H. Ellis. 50/- (post 1/3)
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
A Bibliography to 1938 by E. Morris
Miller, extended to 1950, edited with a
Historical Outline and Descriptive Com-
mentaries by Frederick T. Macartney.
84/- (post 1/7)
OLD BUSH SONGS
edited by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing. Based on Banjo Paterson’s
Old Bush Songs, this new book contains
much new material. 25/- (post lid.)
AUSTRALIAN BUSH BALLADS
edited by Douglas Stewart and Nancy
Keesing. 30/- (post 1/1)
POEMS
by Kenneth Slessor. 16/- (post 7d.)
THE HEXAGON
by Hal Porter. 15/- (post 7d.)
AUSTRALIAN POETRY 1957
edited by Had Porter. 12/6 (post 7d.)
THE MIRACLE OF MULLION HILL
by David Campbell. 15/- (post 7d.)
THREE MEN AND SYDNEY
by Nancy Keesing. 15/- (post 7d.)
A VISION OF CEREMONY
by James McAuley. 15/- (post 7d.)
At all
Booksellers
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
At all
Booksellers
holidays, a third bed would be
added to all double-rooms in a
service block, and unless people
could arrange their own parties
they would have to share with
strangers.
People who are developing
these places as a long-term
investment should realise that
such practices are not in keep-
ing with modern standards,
however much they may appeal
to the speculators, whom
“Waddlin’ Willie” appears to
have missed. Did he hear of
the leasehold block at Surfers’
which sold two years ago for
£2500 and since has changed
hands no fewer than eight times
—on the last occasion for
£lO,OO0 —and not even a shed
erected on it?
The future of tourist-resorts
in all parts of Australia
depends on investors who are
prepared to give a fair deal to
all-comers at a reasonable
figure. An example of how not
to cater for tourists was pro-
vided by the sale of a South
Coast guest-house. The eight
bedrooms each contained three
beds, the side-verandas had 10
and 12 beds respectively, and
about another 20 beds were
stowed away for the holiday
rush. In all, close on 70 beds
were available if required! —•
Jodwy (Vic.).
“ Schizophrenia! How can you tell ?”
N.S.W. Railways
Reading even the condensed
version of that Ebasco Report
on the N.S.W. Government
makes one wonder
whether there is anything
Sydney wouldn’t swallow if it
had an American flavor.
What precisely is it that the
American railroader can teach
us about running a railway?
They run at a profit? So do
ours if you give them half a
chance. Their trains are
enormously big and fast? So
they are, and cheap too,
always assuming that they
have the enormous volume of
freight, a quite fantastic
density of it according to our
standards, over which to
spread the cost of operation
and betterment. But as we
haven’t got tonnages like that
to deal with, the same treat-
ment won’t work and we need
people with experience of our
particular conditions, and you
won’t find them in North
America.
American passenger-services
are wonderful? They also
absorb from half to three-
quarters of the profits made on
freight-haulage to keep the n
in being. The largest
system, which covers
an area with several
times Australia’s
total population,
handles a quarter
as many passengers
as the N.S.W.G.R.
and loses roughly
10s. per • head on
them. The next few
years will witness
the virtual dis-
appearance of railway
passenger-traffic in the U.SA.,
a position which has no parallel
on any major system outside
North America. Is this utter
failure of policy regarded as a
qualification to advise us on
how to carry passengers?
On motive power, the
Americans are spending
billions for no other purpose
than to change from the steam
locomotive to the diesel, and
no man can give any really
concrete figures to show
precisely why they are doing
so. Their salesmen are spread-
ing the faith all over the world
with no small measure of
success, especially when most


favorable financial arrange-
ments can be made.
Yet in the great big world
which exists outside the U.S.A.
they think differently. One
might have hesitated to
r"T * ussia “ S w rt AT
back, but they did a lot of the
main pioneering on diesel-
electrics some 40 years ago and
they still build them, but their
main development today is the
much more up-to-date electri-
fication using alternating
current at industrial frequency
on the system developed if
any one nation could be said
to have developed it—by those
outstanding locomotive engi-
neers, the French. The same is
being done by the British, by
most of Europe generally, by
the Chinese, the Indians (under
French tuition) and by the
Japs. Not by the Americans
—they still seem not to have
“discovered” this modern idea,
Are they then the best people
to advise us on motive-power
policy?
Finally, we have advice on
how to run our urban services,
I wonder which particular
U.S. city can show a better
electric-railway system than
Melbourne or Sydney, or a
better street-transport system
than Melbourne or Brisbane?
If there are any such they must
keep their lights well hidden
under the bushel, for they have
never been heard of. As for
the suggestion about handling
all Sydney traffic with one-
man buses, that would appear
t° take the biscuit on all
counts. Transporticus
(Singapore),
Sputnik and the Socialist
-5 ate
Whether or not these Russian
experiments on the fringe of
space will produce worth-while
benefits for future generations
°f Russians, it is certain that
both the event and the timing
have § iven a tremendous lift
to Soviet prestige and
propaganda,
The 40th anniversary of the
Bolshevist revolution presented
the Kremlin with a fitting
opportunity of showing the
world what wonders can be
accomplished by the proletariat
and its leaders, where
capitalism is as dead as Peter
the Great. As usual there was
a vast display of military
potential, though on this
occasion Soviet science
assumed a more commanding
role than before: giant rockets
with paraphernalia for their dis-
charge; gargantuan carriers
for guided-missiles ; and masses
of weird-looking equipment
that seem to have defied
description by lay-observers—
cogent visible signs of Soviet
military power,
And behind this, in the
minds of those who watched
the display, was the knowledge
that, as these immense instru-
ments of human destruction
rumbled across Red Square,
somewhere in the outer strata
of this planet’s atmosphere, two
satellites the work of Russian
“ drclin £ S'
earth at speeds inconceivable
to human intelligence. What
Communist or, for that
matter, what citizen of the
world-r-could fail to be struck
with wonderment?
The great Pyramids that
Cheops caused to be erected at
Gazireh by the Nile were,
.according to Herodotus, a con-
tinual source of amazement
and bewilderment to the
peoples of classical antiquity
who were fortunate or
unfortunate enough to behold
them. By the combined efforts
of scientists and forced
laborers, their massive com-
ponents were raised in sym-
metry skywards, to the
glorification of the royal house
of their undisputed ruler, while
the miserable fellaheen delved
amid the mud and slime of the
flooded land in order to escape
starvation and to pay tribute to
the omnipotent Pharaoh.
Centuries later, out of the
squalor and poverty of a
Hindu domain, there arose a
memorial to the wife of a great
ruler ; an edifice that has since
claimed the applause and
admiration of millions upon
whose minds the sight of the
Taj Mahal has been indelibly
incused. No visitor to the
Asian sub-continent neglects to
pay tribute to this achievement
of architectural splendor or to
be struck by the contrasts that
it engenders in the thoughts.
These two examples of auto-
cratic extravagance, achieved
without regard for the better-
ment of the subject peoples,
could be multiplied many
times ; and while they continue
to amaze posterity they also
disgust the intelligent observer
ol human development as
selfish sacrifices to aggrandise-
ment, for they benefit no one,
not even their creators. Had
the suffering humanity that
watched their consummation
wished to protest, their utter
helplessness would have com-
pelled silence.
In Communist Russia today,
w/ith its emphasis upon
scientific achievement, there is
an Undoubted parallel. it
would be difficult to estimate
(he cost, in terms of money; of
these intricate scientific baubles
that have staggered the people
even of this new annus
mirabilis, for Soviet economy
bears little relation to values
as known to the outside world.
Nevertheless, there are clear
indications of a vast drain upon
the resources of the Soviets
which have been diverted away
from their rational uses.
In Russia today we see an
oligarchy exercising a more
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 464
Across
I—Faces1 —Faces six wise men. (7)
4 —Blue-blood of the French table game. (7)
B—Archer’s8 —Archer’s equipment to hanker after a deferential
gesture. (7)
10— Sons of the sea quarters of year spices. (7)
11— Disorderly Ibsen meets a form of truancy. (11)
12— Yours Truly does a language derived from Esperanto. (3)
13 — Settle in cosily where birds are
at home to the French. (6)
14 — Assistant in Cleopatra’s suicide —
it’s a matter of course. (3)
15— Skinny list. (4)
16 — This citizen makes the middle
note it. (3)
18 —Dress firm at one in bed, but puss
swallows nothing. (4)
20 — Fight a case. (3)
21— This makes Florida resort to a
blackfellow’s shelter and aim to
reverse more than one. (3-3)
26 — Capek play. (3)
27 — Good French marble of clay and
a cattle station sub-office by the
surf. (5, 6)
28— A devilish little spfrit is to
.wander, but get better. (7)
29 — Italian city of romance. (7)
30— Aristocratic bigshot could be
angered. (7)
31 — The most commonplace three-
way examination. (7)
Down
1— I Crook for dwelling in. (7)
2 Wickedness employs hollows in
tissue. (7)
3 Tom, a timber worker. (6)
4 Darkest horseshoe heavens in the
middle. (8)
5 My Charlie is first with many
ravines. (6)
6 upset a very little creature,
a member of the family of Esau.
7 South Australia’s shortly to be
Siegfried, (7)
9—Report on the French jewellery.
(6)
14 —A baseball team destination of the
good news from Ghent. (3)
16— This makes hard cash in this place
stick together. (8)
17— A small bird to riddle a foreshore
shruh. (2-4)
18 Checking an insulting reference
to Crosby. (7)
19: Roman general has a way of
hofding the old man. (7)
22—Chaps sound just like a Mel-
bourne beach. (7)
23 Across at the hot-water painting
a sculpture produced by a
frustrate. (7)
24 —Thoroughfare named after a sea-
man overseas. (6)
25 Don’t leave puss unrewarded
for some service game with sticks.
(6)
Solution to Crossword No. 463


THE ENGLISH SCOTTISH
AND AUSTRALIAN BANK
LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Summary of Position as at 30/6/57
Total Assets £165,091,652
Australian Currency
Australian
CURRENT ASSETS— Currency
Cash, bank balances, etc £14,444,930
Treasury Bills 3,000,000
Special Account with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia 30,247,000
Bills Receivable .... 21,491,297
Investments , 16,184,436
£85,367,663
Advances, etc .. „„ .... 74,140,102
£159,507,765
Deduct:
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Deposits, etc., including
Contingencies Reserves
and Taxation Provi-
sions £151,561,275
Balances due to other banks 2,658,300
, Dividend payable 234,295
154,453,870
£5,053,895
Add:
FIXED ASSETS
Premises £3,364,010
Investments in subsidiary
companies .... 2,219,877
: 5,583,887
SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS .... „ £10,637,782
PROFITS
Each £1 of gross profit (including Esanda Limited
dividend) for year to 30th June, 1957, was used
in this way
All expenses of management, including £ s. d.
salaries and wages of staff 16 6
Income taxes 1 10
Payments to Officers’ Provident Fund .. 6
Dividends 1 2
£lO 0
H. G. ENSTEN,
General Manager in Australia.
rigorous control over the lives
of its subjects than that
practised by an Eastern
potentate or Western dictator.
In its efforts to justify the form
of government it represents, in
the eyes of the outside world,
and at the same time stir the
emotions of all Communists,
the oligarchs in the Kremlin
follow, like their ancient proto-
types, an obsession for the
stupendous. Ever since the
aays of Lenin and Trotsky,
successive five-year plans and
new economic policies have
ground the Soviet Union’s
labor force into sweat and dust
by threats, cajoleries and
“ Aren't you satisfied with your Work, dear ?”
rewards ; and have pointed to
the hammer and sickle as the
emblem of honorable toil for
the advancement of the Com-
munist system and the “heaven-
on-earth” for the worker.
These are, of course, as far
off as ever; and although
some three-quarters of the
Soviet Union’s population
have never lived under any
other form of government than
that which rules them today,
the Lucretian doctrine of intel-
lectual evolution is telling
upon large sections of the
Russian people, and Causing
increasing numbers of them to
look for some of those achieve-
ments so often anticipated
within the Marxian bible.
If the Soviet leaders had
been able to celebrate the 40th
anniversary of the Communist
regime by announcing that the
shocking living conditions of
the masses of Russia had been
replaced by something better
than exists under capitalism ;
that village and town squalor,
overcrowding and lack of
sanitation were no longer the
lot of rural'millions ; or that
forced-labor camps had been
abolished —those things would
have indicated some progress,
steps towards Communism’s
international ideal. But that
is not the way of the autocrat.
Anyone can build houses and
sewers. Sputnik is unique in
the world and symooL'ses the
heights of intellectual material-
ism reached by the party for
exhibition to the arch-enemies
of State Socialism. Fred
Aarons (N.S.W.).
TV
A Unesco survey of the
educational benefits of TV
disproves “Zorok’s” comment
(B. 13/11/ ’57),
Overseas, instead of cutting
reading and an interest in life,
TV has (after it’s settled down)
opened a new world to people
and stimulated interest in read-
ing, arts and crafts and many
other fields. Young and old
are reading more than ever
before. Paperback copies of
the world’s best literature are
selling in the dozens of millions
in North America alone, more
people are doing courses in the
evening, and TV shows by uni-
versity professors have high
ratings.
What do most people do
without sets? They play cards,
listen to inane radio-shows (top
ratings), go to boxing or wrest-
ling, gossip or watch life ebb
by. Don’t blame our lack of
“culture” on TV —we’ve lacked
it for a long time.
If our children watch TV for
hours, it’s opr fault, not our
neighbor’s or the set’s. My
friends with TV arrange it so
theii children have specified
TV hours, just as they do with
filrn-going, reading and every-
thing else. At least three
children have taken to ballet
and piano-playing since seeing
other youngsters performing
on TV.
TV is still young here. It has
a long way to go—and so'have
many people who seem to be
parents in name only.— Peter
Lee (Vic.).


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
"GUIDED DEMOCRACY"
"EXAMINING the implica-
•*-' tions of one of the newer
“isms,” London “Economist”
defines “guided democracy” as
“one of those unfortunate
concepts in which the meaning
gets blurred beneath layers of
emotion.”
“To many Asians and
Africans, a guided democracy
sounds splendidly and hazily
like some sort of interconti-
nental political missile that will
carry them swiftly on a pre-
arranged course and drop them
plumb into Utopia. For every
heart that beats a little quicker
south of Suez, a pair of eye-
brows is raised disapprovingly
north of it.
“Since the idea, or something
suspiciously like it, is circula-
ting in many different parts of
the world —in Ghana as well as
Indonesia, in Pakistan as well
as in portions of the Middle
East —both sides might well
think a little more clearly about
what it means. The enthusiasts
should decide for what pur-
poses they wish democracy to
be guided, and beyond what
limits guidance will become
London “Daily Express”
“BUT SURELY, MONSIEUR, IT’S PLEASANTER TO BE BLOWN UP BY A
WESTERN SHELL THAN A COMMUNIST SHELL.”
dictatorship. The critics must
realise that there are good
reasons why the new nations
cannot pattern themselves
exactly on either Westminster
or Washington (indeed, the
contrast between these two
should remind British head-
shakers that theirs is not the
only mould for democracy).”
Quoting Ghana, Indonesia,
Pakistan, Argentina and
Burma, the “Economist” adds
that “this catalogue gives some
idea of the sorts of countries
in which ‘guided democracy’ is
likely to be an attractive slogan
—and therefore of the sort of
thing it is. They are all coun-
tries that have recently emerged
from colonial tutelage, or from
some kind of authoritarian rule.
Having lowered themselves
into democracy’s deep waters
(some, like Ghana, hardly gave
themselves time to get their hair
wet) they now find that swim-
ming is less easy than it looks.
There are two perfectly under-
standable reasons why they
should have found it so.
“One is that, being mostly
countries that have only just
broken ~ loose from other
people’s empires, they now find
that they themselves contain
groups that are restive under
central rule. Some of these
groups are based on geography,
like Indonesia’s island dissi-
dents, some on tribal differ-
ences, like Ghana’s Ashantis,
and some arise out of pure
political orneriness.
“The second reason is that
they are usually very poor
countries which nevertheless,
in the first flush of nationhood,
want to see the factory
chimneys going up fast. This
means holding back a lot of
resources for investment out of
a national income that is
already too small for comfort.
It calls for a high degree of
self - discipline. The effort
almost cracked the Communist
monoliths in Poland and Hun-
gary ; it can be imagined what
it does to a democratic house
of bricks. On top of this, the
political parties are often too
new to have shaken themselves
out into a workable bi-polar
arrangement of majority and
minority.
“The* total result is that
Governments often find them-
selves faced with almost muti-
nous oppositions, not yet
trained to wait patiently for the
next turn of the electoral tide;
and with kaleidoscopic Parlia-
ments which can hardly be per-
suaded to pass any major
measures at all.
“To peoples striving to raise
themselves out of the dust, the
leisurely and casual ways of
Westminster must sometimes
look as unadventurous as a Vic-
torian gas balloon would look
to men who have seen a
Russian moon twinkling past in
the dusk. Of course, the pro-
blem is not confined to modern
Asia and Africa. Thirty years
ago Portugal was moved by the
same dilemma to venture along
the same path, though there the
word ‘democracy’ was jetti-
soned from the beginning; and
the call for ‘a strong hand’ can
still be heard from France when
the wind is that way.
“But the new Afro-Asian
democracies are in a different
category from all the countries
that have never even ventured
out from under authoritarian
rule. They have not —or most
of them have not —given up
democracy as a bad job. Their
claim i,s only that their special
difficulties demand special, and
probably temporary, modifica-
tions to the systems they
inherited from Europe and
North America.
“What can the older countries
do to help—apart from look-
ing sympathetic instead of dis-
approving?”
“The Economist” makes
“three positive suggestions”:
“The first is that a good civil
service intelligent, dedicated
and uncorrupt —can hold a
State together even when
politics are threatening to pull
it apart.
“Secondly, while the ten-
dency to take authority away
from Parliaments and give it to
Presidents and ‘national
councils’ is often a dangerous
one, it may perhaps be justifi-
able in-certain limited fields for
limited periods. Most of these
countries are preoccupied with
the problem of expanding their
economies. In countries where
the capitalist economic mech-
anisms are deficient, this calls
for long-term planning and for
consistency in the measures
adopted ; neither comes easily
from infant Parliaments.
Where the Parliamentary
machine has got temporarily
jammed, there may be a case
for an economic planning
board, empowered to take a
wider range of decisions with-
out reference to Parliament
than similar institutions can
take elsewhere.”
In its third suggestion “The
Economist” comments that
“there appear to be, regrettably,
some countries where it has not
yet become self-evident that the
rules of cricket apply also to
politics: countries in which
those given ‘out’ are liable to
buckle on a holster rather than
unbuckle a pad, and where dis-
gruntled minorities, instead of
settling down to turn them-
selves into majorities, are
tempted to try direct action
instead.
“In rudimentary and volatile
societies, where rabbles are
easily roused, it may be neces-
sary to recognise that the outer
bounds off free speech—as
exemplified at Hyde Park
corner, for instance —may have
to be contracted a little. But
those who set themselves to do
the contracting must recognise
three rules:
“Any restrictions must apply
to everybody: if the Prime
Minister is to be allowed certain
kinds of immunity, so should
the leaders of the opposition
parties. Nothing should be
done that removes the right of
dissidents to organise a demo-
cratic opposition, and to act
in the belief that the opposi-
tion is, potentially/ a future
Government.
“Restrictions should be
explained clearly in advance,
rather than imposed under
some vague excuse such as
‘State security.’ In short, the
Government must subject itself
as well as its opponents to the
rule of law.”


This Gilt-edged
Investment
helps to
Safeguard against
Drought.
Like most parts of New South Wales, the
Sydney Catchment Area is in the grip of a
severe drought. The completion of Warragamba
Dam, therefore, is more essential than ever.
The Board is dependent on its Loans—not on
Commonwealth Loans—for construction of its
works. Every Loan investor helps the Board
with its vital works programme.
You have everything to gain by supporting this
Loan. There is no question of risk. Interest
and repayment of principal are unconditionally
guaranteed by the N.S.W. Government.
The terms are— s| per cent, each year for 6,
10 or 20 years, according to your choice.
CLOSING NEXT SATURDAY!
INVEST AT ANY BRANCH OF—
• Commonwealth Trading Bank;
• Australia and New Zealand Bank !
Limited;
• Bank of New South Wales;
• The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited;
Or through a Stockbroker;
Or at the Sydney Water
Board Offices.
Water
3
X
Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
MW 177
Montgomery
British press-tributes to
Field-Marshal Viscount Mont-
gomery on the announcement
of his retirement as Deputy
Supreme Commander of
S.H.A.P.E.: •
London “Sunday Times”:
“On General Eisenhower’s
appointment to S.H.A.P.E.,
Montgomery was fittingly
London “Daily Mirror"
NO FINAL TEST?
chosen as his deputy. His
task was an extension of his
former role with Western
European Union —to prepare
plans, to induce Defence
Ministers to provide sufficient
forces, properly trained and
equipped, and to supervise the
necessary collective training.
“Prominent features of his
methods were the institution
of battle-campaign exercises
for the higher staffs and
characteristic modes of
pressure on reluctant Defence
Ministers. He aligned the
plans and training with the
rapid developments in atomic
weapons.
“In due course he advocated
a complete recasting of the
plans so as to build the wfeole
scheme of defence in the West
around the idea of meeting
attack by an immediate resort
to nuclear warfare. More-
over, he worked incessantly
for the admission of Germany
to Nato, and his ideas
ultimately prevailed.
“Uncompromisingly British
in character —if that can be
said of a distinguished
Northern Irishman —he has
worked wholeheartedly as an
international servant.”
* * *
London “Daily Mail”: “The
unlucky ones [generals] fight
the first battles, usually with
inadequate strength and a
careless country unready for
the struggle. To say this is
not to derogate from the
brilliance of those who take
over in the later stages. These
may have more supplies and
men, but they also face a
strongly entrenched enemy
convinced of his invincibility.”
The same ; “It has been said
deprecatingly that Monty never
went into a battle which he
was not certain of winning.
How right he was! To neglect
no means of victory is a hall-
mark of military genius.
Wellington possessed it, too.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Monty’s place on the roll of
our country’s captains is with-
out doubt a high one. He is
nearer in character and out-
look to Wellington than Marl-
borough ; and it was as a com-
mander in the field that he
shone, rather than in that high-
level diplomacy which, in the
20th just as in the 19th and
18th centuries, appears to be a
necessary attribute of ‘summit’
generalship in a great' alliance:
“Yet when Montgomery’s
achievements come to be
assessed possibly the greatest
—greater even than the classic
planning and execution of
Rommel’s defeaU-will be seen
to be the way in which, of
recent years, he has retained
fresh strategic vision and
inspired it in others, so that
S.H.A.P.E. has been, and


GUARD
Gu&it
xtfitivcis
PROTECTA
s inti-
nl-Sd^
Suitable for every type of business it records
•II Sales, Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing A(tnls-~
SYDNEY . W.
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE • t
PERTH % 9
C. Penfold St Co. Pty, Ltd.
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
Dockoi Book Co. (AuaO
remains, a much more forward-
looking and realistic place than
either the Pentagon or White-
hall.”
* * *
“Jon” in London “News
Chronicle”: “In a speech he
made in November, 1945, at
St. Andrews University when
he received the honorary degree
of Doctor of Laws, Monty
revealed that the three military
commanders of the past on
whom' he had modelled himself
were Moses, CromwelL and
Napoleon.
“Moses, who had inten-
tionally kept Israel 40 years
in the desert in order to train
a fighting race capable of con-
quest ; Moses most careful
never to risk failures in action.
“Cromwell, with ‘fire in his
belly,’ an inspiring trainer of
men, a rigid disciplinarian, who
drove his men hard and who
believed with a blinding
certainty in the righteousness
of his cause, enthusing his men
with it.
“And Napoleon, unlike the
others, a professional soldier
and a dominator of men, whose
great power was that of
simplifying problems.”
* * «
London “Observer”: “With
his moral fearlessness and his
outstanding intellect, oddly
coupled with his prep.-school
diction, he has become a
deeply respected figure in the
military counsels of the West.
There can rarely have been a
case in history in which a great
soldier of one war, with
honors to satisfy the pride of
half-a-dozen men, has devoted
the succeeding years to master-
ing and thinking through the
significance of the strategic
revolution to which it gave
rise.”
"Summit" Talks
“New York Times” editorial
comment on Khrushchev’s call
for another “summit meeting”
between East and West:
“It may be said at once that
another ‘summit’ conference
could be welcomed, but only if
the Soviets should begin to
carry out the - agreements
already reached at a previous
‘summit’ conference in Geneva,
two years ago, approved by
Mr. Khrushchev himself. These
agreements called, as their most
concrete proposition, for a
reunification of Germany by
means of free elections within
the framework of European
security. Unless and until the
Soviets do carry out these
agreements they will merely
demonstrate that they seek a
‘summit’ meeting for propa-
ganda purposes only, and that,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
“NOW TO LOCK THE STABLE DOOR!”
as a dozen subjugated and many
still free nations have learned
to their sorrow, they make
agreements merely to break
them.
“This same ingenious purpose
is evident in Mr. Khrushchev’s
suggestions for the new meet-
ing. He calls for reduction of
armed forces and armaments,
for banning atomic and hydro-
gen weapons and for an
immediate end to testing them.
“But as for removing the
of international ten-
sions that cause armaments, he
simply calls on the West to
appraise anew the balance of
power in the world and to,
accept the Soviets’ conquest as
final and unchangeable. And
as for disarmament, he con-
tinues to ignore the crux of the
matter —namely, effective con-
trols, without which any dis-
armament agreement could lead
only to one-sided disarmament
of the West.”
Uncle Sam's Mates
Considering the immense
handouts of dollars since
World War 11, Americans must
have been a little disappointed
by the results of New York
“Herald Tribune’s” “world-
poll,” which asked:
“In case war breaks out
between the U.S. and Russia,
do you think your country
should do everything in its
power not to get involved, or
do you think it should take
part on one side or the other?”
The question \vas put in 11
countries, and according to the
poll only two of them —Aus-
tralia and the Netherlands—
were in favor of hopping into
such a fight with Uncle Sam.
Still, as London “Economist”
notes, the result might have
been different if the question
had been put a little more
tactfully.
“If the poll had wanted to
test the real spirit of the
alliance, it should have asked:
Would you be willing to join
with the Americans in fighting
to defend another small country
against a Cofnmunist attack?.
The ayes might then have rolled
in more readily.
“In the second place, the
question was far too vaguely
worded. No one, apart from
a congenital hero, feels his
heart pounding with comrade-
ship at the abstract concept of
‘a war breaking out between
the United States and Russia.’
“If, however, he was re-
minded of the sort of circum-
stances that might lead to such
a war—a Russian pounce on a
free nation, or even a sudden
missile drop on Washington—
he might well imagine his
dander and his sense of loyalty
to friends rising to the boil
simultaneously.
“It is notoriously difficult to
phrase public-opinion polls
properly, but those responsible
for this one could well have
been a little more exact. Noth-
ing makes old soldiers fade
away canteenwards more surely
than a call for volunteers for
some unspecified unpleasant-
ness.”
Various Voices
M. Spaak {Secretary-General
of Nato): “We cannot choose
between the sputnik and the
washing-machine we must
have both. We must pool our
resources to achieve higher
standards of living and
increased military effectiveness,
otherwise we shall become
second-class Powers.”
Field-Marshal Montgomery:
“What might be called the
European Test-match can be
postponed indefinitely, because
of the nuclear deterrent strength
of Nato —provided*we do not
reduce our visible strength.
There may be village cricket
elsewhere in the world; in
fact, local and cold-war
activities outside the Nato area
are likely to increase. These
must be dealt with promptly,
or else such local matches could
build up into a Test-match.”
George Kennan, U.S. expert
on Soviet affairs: “Our
problem is no longer to prevent
people from . acquiring the
ability to destroy us: it is too
late for that. Our problem is to
see that they do not have the
will or the incentive to do it.
For this, we have to preserve
our deterrent capacity. But that
is all. And that does not
necessarily imply an endless
industrial and scientific race.
We have reason neither to
quake before the spectacle of
Soviet economic progress, nor
to crow over the fact that
Soviet Government faces
political dilemmas.”


The Han on
the Handkerchief
By A. B. SHERLOCK
[“You Remember Amber
Jones?” (B. 21/12/’55) will be
remembered as one of the finest
boxing stories THE BULLETIN
has ever published. Its author,
A-. B. Sherlock, here begins his
vividly realistic serial story of
the world-beating Sydney larrikin
boxer who fought here and in
America as Griffo.]
ONE of the sights of
American saloons dur-
ing the ’nineties was an
eccentric who spread a
handkerchief on the floor,
planted one foot on it, and
invited all-comers to punch his
head. He contracted not to
raise hts arms or move his foot
from the handkerchief.
Those who accepted the bet
soon found themselves looking
remarkably foolish. It was
impossible to hit the fellow as
he swayed loosely from the
hips, rolling his head and
twisting his neck. By the simple
device of never remaining in
the track of a punch, he won
endless series of bets.
This interesting character was
an Australian fighter named
Albert Griffiths, professionally
known as “Young Griffo” and
probably the most inspired
pugilist there has ever been.
Nothing very Reliable is now
remembered about him,
although on both sides of the
Pacific the legend of his lunatic
skill lives on.
Albert Griffiths was born in
1871, and the chances are that
he was named, along with a lot
of others, after “Albert the
Good”—Prince Albert, dead
ten years before. Griffo was
one of the Alberts who were
Not So Good. Nearly every-
body looked on Prince Albert
as a holy man ; Griffo was
mostly regarded as a holy
terror.
The American prize - ring,
according to statistics worked
out by Charles E. Van Loan,
produced “hundreds of sports,'
four or five genuine sportsmen
and a genius or two.”
Geniuses not named ; but there
were not many, inside the ropes,
who could match Griffo’s
authentic flash and sparkle.
Genius denied, and out of the
ring, he hardly qualified as a
sportsman, or even a sport;
usually he was a liability and a
nuisance.
As often happens, his
nuisance capacity was in inverse
ratio to his size; he was a
blocky and grinning Hercules
standing only sft. 4in. and in
hard training weighing around
about 9st.
His build was a patchwork
of incongruities; the. middle-
weight’s torso, the short legs,
the bull neck and massive head.
No proportion, no athletic
grace, but the competence of
a tugboat, all engine and
strength.
If the hearts of boxers, like
those of champion racehorses,
were weighed after death,
Griffo’s would probably have
placed him in the ovsr-size class
along with Phar Lap and
Flight. Measurements taken
while he was still living showed
him to be 41 in. around the
chest, and when he spread his
arms there was 68in. between
fingertips.
He had a cat’s speed of sight,
which broke the menace of
hostile fists down to mere
traffic-signals. He was always
one jump ahead of the high-
velocity punchers. He was as
quick with his hands as with
his eyes, and twice as deadly.
In physique and natural gifts,
he was appointed to dominate
the game at his weight and to
be the despair of rivals.
“If he had lived a normal
life,” wrote Jim Donald, “it is
inconceivable that he would
ever have been beaten.”
Likely enough; but it was
a big “if.” There was some-
thing the matter with Griffo,
and nobody was eyer very reti-
cent about it. The San Fran-
cisco “Olympian” of May,
1896, put everybody’s gossip
into print:
In spite of Ills marvellous science
Ills fellow-countrymen are not par-
ticularly proud of him, as he is of
so utterly depraved a nature 'that
no decent person cares to be seen
in his company. “Drunk and dis-
gusting’' seems to he his natural
condition... .And yet in spite of
his excesses he has been the
greatest man that ever stood in the
magic square.
O there it was—just another
brilliant booze-hound, the
sort of fellow that Simeon
Solomon had been, for example.
The painter Solomon, thirty
years older than Griffo, had a
streaky career of mixed glory
and grime, Like Griffo, he
towered over his contem-
poraries ; like Griffo, he
rejected renown and respecta-
bility for the boozy twilight of
the gutter.
“Curiously enough,” wrote
Bernard Falk, “the legend of
Solomon’s life in the under-
world, so far from detracting
from his immortality, is likely
GRIFFO
•
to ensure it; much as the dis-
grace which fell upon Oscar
Wilde is destined to keep his
name alive long after the major
part of his work has ceased to
attract future generations.”
So with Griffo ; his feffis may
have been forgotten, were they
not fertilised by the scandals
of his private life.
Some of his opponents, and a
lot of his acquaintances, often
wished he had never been
born. As far as the official
record goes, he was not born
anywhere. He once deposed in
an American court that he was
a native of Sydney, and this is
conventionally accepted,
Miller’s Point being the locality.
Nobody knows for certain.
His birth is not recorded in the
registers of the period, leaving
the field open. The goldfields
town of Sofala, N.S.W., is
another reputed birthplace, and
so is Bendigo, Victoria.
The point is not very
material; born in the locality
or not, Griffo was reared from
babyhood in The Rocks, on
Sydney’s waterfront.
The story is that his father
was a coal-lumper and wharf-
laborer, and that
Griffo dodged his cuffs
and swipes as
brilliantly as he side-
stepped formal school-
ing. Informally, he
learned a lot; The
Rocks was a swarm-
ing and cosmopolitan
area, and even a simpleton
soon knew- his way about in
most directions that mattered.
As an anonymous scribbler
wrote of the “pushes” of the
’nineties:
The University of strife,
The college of hard knocks!
They soon absorbed the lore of life
Who lived down by the Rocks;
And, as their store of knowledge
mounted,
Still couldn’t count, but knew what
counted.
The sandstone pile of The
Rocks was a high promontory
west of Circular Quay. On the
odd levels of its terraces lived a
happy-go-lucky lot. The place
was overpubbed with nearly
fifty grog-shops, some of them
respectable, as for example the
one patronised by seaman
Joseph Conrad on an early visit
to Sydney. It is conceivable
that the Polish sailor brushed
more than once against the
barefoot whose name was
notorious long before
Almayer’s Folly was written.
A FEW miles to the west, out
along the Parramatta
road, young Randolph Bedford
waddled about in peaceful
{Continued on page 66)


CHAMBERLAINS
BACK EVERY
‘It'll! Mli
Champion
WITH A NATION WIDE
SERVICE s. SPARE PART
2
3
0
Vi!
Chamberlain spare parts are made in Australia. Full stocks
are available right throughout the Commonwealth.
Prompt despatch of spare parts to anywhere in Australia is
part of a service that is now famous amongst farmers in all
States.
Chamberlain Service Mechanics throughout Australia are
Factory Trained.
\
Chamberlain approved repair methods ensure that all repair
and service work is equal to highest factory standards.
CHAMBERLAIN INDUSTRIES PTY.LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Parramatta Road and
Ostend Street, Lidcombe.
QUEENSLAND: Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 291-301
Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 207 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
VICTORIA^Princes Highway, Springvale.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Welshpool Road,
Welshpool.
TASMANIA: Donald Gorxinge Pty. Ltd., 72
Argyle Street, Hobart, and 139 York Street,
Launceston.


VERSATILITY
wb mm m m mmm M m
Me mark of a Chamoion
r
ft
%
5
**•. ••*
m
In
%
<|g
w
. *
m
js W®
45 up
DIESEL
standard
FEATURES
DOUBLE ACTING HYDRAULICS
Complete with quick release, self sealing couplings ot the rear of
the tractor to suit all makes and types of machinery, LIVE P.T.O.
with Independent clutch, Full electrical equipment including dash-
board, reor light and two headlights. Hour Meter, Front
Bumper Bar. Finger tip recirculating steering. Heavy Duty
**■'' Roller Drawbar with vertical
hitching heights. Spark Arres-
tor. Foam Rubber ear type
seating for three. Foot accel-
erator in addition to hand
throttle.
liii
Without obligation to myself please
send me a FREE illustrated Leaflet
INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD., WELSHPOOL, W.A.
£1,595


JOIN —
"MEN OF THE LAND"
AND READ »
"THE LIVING EARTH"
A society and quarterly journal
devoted to Land Development,
Proper Land Use and Conserva-
tion of soil, water, vegetation
and forests.
SUBSCRIPTION—£I per year
JUNIORS—IO/- per year
CUT OUT AND POST
TO-DA Y !
Name
Address
ATTACH SUBSCRIPTION
To : tHE SECRETARY,
“MEN OF THE LAND”
sth FLOOR, 9 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
DROUGHT MITIGATION
r pHE symposium on
“Drought Mitigation” held
by the N.S.W. branch of the
Australian Institute of Agri-
cultural Science and the “Men
of the Land” Society brought
to light some interesting argu-
ments. For instance M. C.
Franklin, under the challeng-
ing title “Droughts Can Be
Beaten,” gave a number of
useful recommendations.
When to Start Feeding
It is important, Franklin
said, that sheep take readily
to supplementary feeding—
otherwise “shy” - feeders cause
extra work and worry. “We
have found lucerne-hay one of
the best supplements with
which to start hand-feeding.
I would not recommend over-
generous supplementation too
early in a drought unless
substantial fodder-reserves are
available.
“In our experience, sheep in
good condition can lose
approximately 40 per cent, of
their bodyweight before heavy
It is claimed that the
new cobalt pellet will
give immunity from
phalaris staggers to
sheep grazing in the
very productive
phalaris - dominant
pastures. Here is a
development which,
like the Elastrator
Rubber Ring, should
remove anxiety from
the grazier’s mind.
By using the rubber
ring for marking and
tailing lambs instead
of the knife, graziers
are finding an effec-
tive method to reduce
losses and minimise
shock and set-back
and susceptibility to
disease.
losses from undernutrition
occur. Furthermore, survivors
of such a regime of under-
nutrition will rapidly regain
weight after a drought breaks
—provided, of course, food
and conditions are satisfactory
during immediate post-
drought period. Too often one
hears of losses of drought-
affected sheep ‘chasing a green
pick,’ particularly in heavy
black-soil country.
“With this experience of the
performance of sheep under
nutritional stress, I agree with
those Who have been critical
of some sections of the press
which have, during the last
few months, overpublicised the
problems of drought, fodder-
shortages and potential live-
stock losses. This does not
mean that I have not agreed
with the views expressed in
many of these articles.
“My only criticism is that
their timing has been bad.
These articles have stampeded
some into using fodder-reserves
before they needed to, and
have forced prices of fodders
up too high too rapidly.
“So much of this newspaper
publicity of the last few
months should have been made
during the bounteous years
following the 1945-46 drought,
and should have continually
emphasised the need for
greater fodder-conservation.”
Whether one entirely agrees
with Dr. Franklin on this last
point or not —after all, there
is a limit to the amount of
space newspapers can give to
such exhortation—it is worth
mentioning that the speaker
himself hammered away at the
need for fodder-conservation
during the good years at every
opportunity.
What to Feed
Franklin said the choice may
be as wide as the range of
fodders available, once stock
are accustomed to feeding. “In
our experiments we have fed
roughage only, grains only, and
many combinations of these.”
The cheapest and best
drought-fodder is that which
provides the greatest number
of feed-units af minimum cost
-—“provided, of course, it is
reasonably palatable.”
There have been many
examples of bad buying,
Franklin gave an example,
which needs to be related to
the following table: —-
COST OF FODDER, CLONCURRY (Q.).
(Cost ex-store, 22/9/'57.)
Cost per
Cost Cost per lb. of
per lb. Food-unit. Protein.
Fodder. Cost. / (Pence.) (Pence.) (Pence.)
Grain-sorghum 28/6 per bushel ... 5.7 7.6 57
Wheat 2S/6 per bushel 5.7 7.9 52
Maize 28/6 per bushal ........ 5.7 7.2 57
(601 b.)
Poultry-mash 12/- per busliot ........ 7.2 11.0 51
(201 b.)
Crushed oats 77/-per bag 9.2 15.4 92
(1001 b.)
Lucerne-chaff 66/-per bag ............ 7.9 19.8 53
(1001 b.)
Oaten-cliaff 67/3 per bag 8.1 20.2 146
(,1001b.)
Obviously the most expen-
sive fodder was oaten-Chaff.
A grazier had bought oaten-
chaff as a supplement for his
cattle. His fodder costs could
have' been reduced to approxi-
mately one-third, or three times
as many food-units could have
been bought for the' same
money, if he had known the
relative food-values of fodder
and bought accordingly.
Dr. Franklin’s main recom-
mendations were:
Ration improved - pastures
and extend their area where
practicable.
Plan the feeding-programme
as far ahead as possible.
Accustom sheep to hand-
feeding, but don’t waste
fodder-supplies by feeding
before necessary.
Grade stock according to
condition, and ration fodder
accordingly.
Consider the value of sheep
to be fed and ration accord-
ingly.
Feed at periodic intervals
instead of daily (except for
early-weaned lambs, which
should, be fed ad lib. if feed-
supplies are adequate).
Wean early to take the strain
off ewes, and completely hand-
feed lambs.
Discontinue hand - feeding
when practicable.
Make use of low-quality
roughage by using high-
quality supplements.
Ration high-quality and
protein-rich supplements.
Add urea to grain-supple-
ments, especially if quality of
the roughage is poor, but use
it carefully because of the
dangers associated with over-
feeding urea and faulty mixing.
If necessary add limestone
to grain - supplements. This
can be important—for young
growing stock and for preg-
nant ewes fed mainly on grain-
rations.
If necessary drench with
vitamin-A supplement. This
should be needed only during
protracted periods of grazing
on dry feed, and even then
only with lambs and weaners.
Where practicable, consider
the merit of completely hand-
feeding portion of the flock
in a restricted area, and dis-
tributing the rest of the flock
more thinly over the property.
Franklin went into all these
points in detail, with lavish
illustrations in figures. Glanc-
ing at one such point—the
feeding of , urea —the main
benefits seem to be the high
percentage of nitrogen—42 per
cent. —which can be converted
into bacterial protein in the
rumen, and cheapness. Urea
costs less than a shilling a
pound, and is fed in small
doses.
Looking a little ahead,
Franklin worked out some
interesting, figures on what
could be done if Australia had
substantial fodder - reserves.
Wheat, to the amount of 100
million bushels, would be
equivalent to 4320 million
food-units, and would satisfy
the full “drought-maintenance”


Ad: Extract from Pastoral Review
THE AUSTRALIAN DINGO, A TO Z, AND FOXES.
By J. S. BACON, 37 Carlton Crescent, Summer Hill, Sydney.
PRICE £1 Post Free.
A timely book by a man of long experience in the catching of this
enemy of the sheep Industry. Mr. Bacon held the Australian double
record for 29 years, for catching the highest priced Dingo caught
in the fastest time. Viz.: £72 10s.; time 7 days. Much valuable
information and items of interest to assist graziers in fighting the
Dingo menace.
Also, the manager of Glengalla station, Maxwelton, Nth. Queensland,
has written to me to say he had a veteran Dingo killing sheep and he
got two of the best Dingo catchers in Nth. Queensland for 4\ months,
but they could not catch him. So he got my Dingo Book and studied
it for weeks and sure enough he caught the Dingo himself.
J. S. BACON, UA 6162
CANE- ITE
Acousti-tile ceilings-
QUIET, BEAUTIFUL
m
px-x-w-x-wx y. -x
* • *
■ v-JJmK
II
*
i
' Architect: h'or Lloyd
Look at the ceiling of this
modern Oatley, N.S.W.,
home. Cane-ite Acousti-
Tile is beautiful and func-
tional, fits in with all
modern decor. The 484
sound traps in each 12-
inch square tile cut all
irritating noise by 65%!
And, of course, noise
reduction promotes greater
concentration and effici-
ency, better health. Cane-
ite Acousti-Tile can be
installed easily over exist-
ing walls and ceilings.
Repainting does not reduce
its noise absorption quali-
ties. Call your nearest
CSR representative for free
acoustical advice.
I
CNR
\
r-TTTftd
||ICANE-ITE
Acousti-tile
sssJ FOR NOISE REDUCTION AND /'COUSTICAI CORRECTION^
Made by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO.
Building Materials Division
Showrooms at Sydney. Wagga, Newcastle, Melbourne*
Brisbane, Townsville. Adelaide. Perth.
requirements of 252 million
dry, adult Merino sheep for
one month, or 41.5 million dry,
adult Merino sheep for six
months, or 20.8 million dry,
adult Merino sheep for one
year.
Three million tons of hay
would be equivalent to 2352
million food-units, and would
satisfy the full “drought-
maintenance” requirements of
137 million dry, adult Merino
sheep for one month, or 22.6
million dry, adult Merino sheep
for six months, or 11.3 million
dry, adult Merino sheep for
one year.
Figures to ponder over.
National Fodder Reserve ?
A. J. Mclntyre, of the Com-
monwealth Bank, put forward
an argument in favor of setting-
up a National Fodder Board:
“The kind of board I
envisage would assess the likely
needs for fodder from time to
time, keep an eye on the
marketing of Australian gitain,
and make sure there was
always a sufficient reserve on
hand by compelling exporters
(or marketing boards) to hold
stocks, or by holding stocks
itself.
“If, say, the whole of Aus-
tralia’s fodder-reserves were to
be held as wheat, a buffer-
stock of about 100 million
bushels of wheat, over and
above normal stock - feed
requirements, would need to be
held to prevent stock losses in
a major drought. This would
mean the erection of extra silos
and the financing of the annual
costs of storage. Altogether, it
would run into an initial
capital cost of well over £5O
million, and an annual change
of £5 million. This is a lot of
money, and the cost would
have to be borne by those likely
to benefit. It would hardly be
equitable for wheatgrowers,
through the Australian Wheat
Board, to subsidise the cost
of a fodder - reserve for
pastoralists . . .”
Mclntyre quoted an anony-
mous contributor to the N.S.W.
“Agricultural Gazette” of 45
years ago:-
As agriculture advances, drought
loses its power.... The great enemy
has won a partial victory in the
recent campaign, but in each attack
he finds .us stronger and eventually
we will have him in chains."
Which seems to illustrate the
dangers of optimism.
Despite increased stock -
numbers, our pastures are being
more leniently grazed now than
they were when we entered the
drought-years of 1944-45 and
1945-46.
“Our most recent experience
of a very bad drought was in
the seasons 1944 to 1947. In its
worst year, 1944-45, this
drought caused the death of 11
million sheep, and during its
full term of almost four years
it was responsible for the loss
of about 17 per cent, of the
average annual sheep-popula-
tion. It reduced the wool-clip
by an average of 200 million ib.
(greasy) a year, and signifi-
cantly cut down lambing-
percentages. In-the five seasons
to 1943 the average number of
lambs marked was about 32
million a year. During the next
two seasons it fell to a low of
less than 21 million, and it was
not until 1952 that the pre-
drought lambing figure
achieved.”
But, Mclntyre pointed out,
there are a million fewer horses
on farms now, -and many
million fewer rabbits.
During these drought-years,
a total of 9500 million food-
units had been fed to stock,
but it would have needed
another 5000 million to have
prevented the losses.
At present, he said, estimated
stocks of fodder, including
those held on farms, totalled a
little more than 8500 million
food-units. He estimated that
over the next two years we
would have in stock and com-
ing in about 1500 million food-
units —only about two-thirds of
what would have been needed
to maintain stock in 1944 and
1945. Obviously, then, we had
nowhere near enough fodder
to prevent big losses through
a similar period of drought.
Emeritus Professor of Agri-
culture R. D. Watt gave a
sketch of the history of
droughts in Australia. In the
last 100 years we’ve seven
major droughts, affecting the
greater part of the Common-
wealth, and eight others which
caused serious loss in limited,
though fairly large, areas.
Brian Harris, of Australian
Fertilisers, and C. C. Corbett,
chairman of the N.S.W. Water
Conservation and Irrigation
Commission, talked about
pasture - improvement and
water-conservation respectively.
Neither had anything very
startling to say. Mr. Harris’s
subject was a large one, and he
dealt with it faithfully, without
skipping the fundamentals. Mr.
Corbett covered thoroughly the
work being done by the
commission. Water-conserva-
tion on individual properties
had been expanding steadily, he
said, and requests for advice
and assistance from land-
holders were being dealt with
at the rate of more than 100
a month.
This type of improvement,
he said, was showing its results
during the dry spell in improved
water-supplies for stock, and
in irrigation-schemes which
were markedly improving the
feed position even where there
was not enough water for full
irrigation through the whole
dry period.
The average rainfall over the
whole of our greatest catch-
ment-area, which reached the
sea through the Murray, was
only about 16|in. a year, com-
pared with an average of 26in.
for all the land areas of the
world.
Of this comparatively meagre
rainfall, after evaporation and
absorption, only about 16 per
cent, actually became running
water, compared with a world
average of about 37 per cent,
“If the whole of the water
which flows in our streams were
conserved, the total available
would not, suffice to irrigate
more than a small percentage
of the land which would be


WUNDERLICH SINKS
OuHhinef them all
The
NEW
SINKS
&252
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
The brilliant NEW range of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainage
falls in bowls and drainers, anti-spill
beading on all sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing for easy fixing
over new or old cupboarding or unbacked,
If required. See the NEW Wunderlich Sinks
at your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
write to Wunderlich Ltd., Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for illustrated price list.
suitable for irrigation in our
arid areas.”
Wasted Feed
W. M. Willoughby,
C.5.1.R.0. pasture - ecologist,
had some stimulating things to
say about pasture-manage-
ment :
“Both on the home and
export market the grass-crop
—converted into animal
products—is about four times
as valuable as all other agri-
cultural production. Wool,
meat, milk, hides, etc., are
responsible for about one-third
of the net valuation of Aus-
tralian production, and about
two-thirds of the export wealth.
Equally important, excluding
the Northern Territory, we
have a country of 1500 million
acres of which only 930 million
acres is worth occupying for
pastoral and agricultural
purposes.
“Of the 930 million less than
4 per cent, is suitable—at the
moment, anyhow—for agri-
culture, so the pastoral industry
provides the only medium for
usage of the sunlight, soil and
water resources over the
remaining 96 per cent., or 900
million acres of land which
suffers rainfall, fertility, or
topographic limitations.
. “Despite its size and import-
ance, grass is the crop about
which we know least. Indeed
it might almost be said that
our knowledge and skill m
growing crops are in inverse
ratio to their area and value.
Relatively, there has been a
wealth of research and experi-
mentation into cultural harvest-
ing and processing techniques
designed to give efficient output
of cigarettes, potato-chips and
tomato-soup, compared to that
designed to give efficient out-
put of butter, beef, mutton and
wool—our major products.”
After this stimulating begin-
ning, Mr. Willoughby went on
to examine in detail carrying-
capacity of pastures at different
stages. For instance, in
C.5.1.R.0. experiments on im-
proved-pasture at Canberra,
when the pasture was growing
rapidly there was enough feed
for three times the number of
sheep carried. “Even if these
were available, they would still
leave enough dry material to
satisfy the basic flock iin
the subsequent period. But
these extra stock are just not
available. So sufficient excel-
lent pasturage to feed 12 sheep
for 12 weeks, or nearly thr^e
sheep more for 52 weeks, at a
high level of production, is
wasted.”
This, of course, is very
intensive stocking. “Carrying
six sheep to the acre is a highly
dangerous procedure. Four
sheep would be a safer overall
proposition to make allowance
for dry years. Running four
sheep on such pastures mean
that in normaLperiods of rapid
pasture - growth only one -
quarter to one-fifth of the
spring pasturage that could be
safely used is used, the re-
mainder rapidly deteriorating
on the onset of dry conditions.”
He estimated that inJM.S.W.
the actual feed used from
pastures only averaged about
20 per cent, of what was pro-
duced, although in good years
and droughts this figure
probably fluctuated between 15
per cent, and 80 per cent. In
improved-pasture the wastage
of high - quality feed was
obvious, he said. On the basis
of investigations at Canberra,
if the fodder left during the
flush period were conserved,
there would seem to be a
saving of about one ton of hay
or three tons of silage for every
acre of improved-pasture each
year.
Difficulties
There were, however, prac-
tical difficulties —one big one
being the problem of handling
such large quantities of fodder
in from five to six weeks of the
year. Another is the possibility
of a decline in soil-fertility.
Here the speaker should be
quoted at length:
“Up to now I have painted
rather a glowing picture of the
future of pasture-conservation.
Let me now proceed to throw
some cold water on the idea,
not from the financial angle-
others are better qualified than
I am in that regard—but from
the aspect of the effects of con-
servation on the subsequent
performance of the pasture in
terms of animal production.
“In good years, our experi-
ments suggest that animals on
pastures previously cut for hay
perform identically with those
on pastures not so cut. But in
poor years the stock give less
production, so that the grazier
who has conserved has first
and most necessity to feed.
“Quite a few factors could
contribute to this, not the least
of which is the fact that every
100 tons of hay in the shed, or
400 tons of silage in the pit,
represents six tons of sul-
phate-of-ammonia, three tons
of muriate -of - potash, and
two tons of superphosphate,
plus other essential plant-
nutrients, not in the paddock.
Of course, in the long run, if
the material is eventually fed
back in the paddock, the
nutrients are returned. But if
they are not fed in the paddock
but in the yards, or if they are
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/11/’57)
General rains are indicated in Queensland during
December, with the prospect of flooding in the south-west,
central highlands and central coast. The wet-season rains
should be below average, and this should be another year of
poor rainfall.
N.S.W. should get general relief rains during December,
although rainfall should be below normal during 1958,
particularly in the Riverina and western areas during the
first half of the year.
Moderately good rains are likely in the central division,
Gippsland, north-east areas and western division of Victoria
during December, but rainfall should be lighter in the
Mallee, Wimmera and north country.
South Australia should expect only poor rainfall during
December, apart from storm-rains, mainly in the upper
north. Some variation is possible, however, as one cycle
indicates a wet month.
The goldfields and south-west areas of Western Aus-
tralia should get reasonably good rains during December,
and general rains, mainly below normal, are likely in the
Kimberleys. Rainfall should be poor elsewhere in the State.
LENNOX WALKER.


Now!
what you've always warsted
U
in your
'
\
\
N
\
V
§«%, /J
mm
c-x-k-v: • • :* :•:< • :•:
OHIO MIMIIRI
smm
Pu re Wool
slacks
That gives you everything you
want when you buy new slacks
a truly permanent crease,
plus all the advantages of
pure wool cloth . . . which is
harder wearing, smarter look-
ing, and wrinkle resistant.
Do what you like to those
creases, they never come out,
never need even the touch of
an iron. They’re guaranteed !
Your slacks are now per-
manently smart. Even if they
are soaked in a shower of rain,
when they dry out, your per-
manent crease will still be
there.
Look for the “PERMA-CREASE” tag.
You’ll find it on all Stamina pure wool
“PERMA-CREASE” De Luxe Slacks. It’s
your guarantee that the knife-edged smart-
ness of your new Stamina sports trousers
is permanent.
The Makers of Stamina Clothes
are using
the Sl-ro-set process
to CS.I.R.O’s. requirements
Stamina
De Luxe Trousers
with PER MA-CREASE
December 11, 1957
not fed at all because of spoil-
age (and half the silage can be
spoilage, and half the hay-
stacks in the country, too, by
the appearance of them), then
these nutrients are never
returned.
“However, reasons for this
poorer response in drought-
years of animals in paddocks
from which pasture has pre-
viously been conserved are not
clear, despite what I have just
said about the temporary
removal of nutrients. But the
differences are serious enough
to warrant a much more
intensive study . . .
“I think this somewhat dis r
appointing trend merely tends
to highlight the necessity for a
co-ordinated attack on pasture
problems—in this case, pasture
wastage. The soil-scientist, the
agronomist, the chemist and
biochemist, the engineer, the
animal nutritionist and the
animal husbandman all need to
be fairly fully aware of each
other’s views, and thereby of
the problem as a whole, so that
the contribution each can make
can be more clearly defined,
and more appropriately tackled.
“I have great faith in the
possibilities of efficient and
economic methods of con-
siderably reducing the
enormous wastage of pasture,
and thereby of economically
increasing animal production.
Our own experiments would
suggest that bale of wool'
from each five acres, year in
and year out, is not unrealistic
in our 23in.-rainfall environ-
ment —if we do not waste
pasture.”
Better Beef
“Fleeco”: Not only more
beef but better beef is
promised by a new antibiotic
which can be injected into live
animals, to keep meat fresh
for longer periods after
slaughter. U.S.A. experts report
that meat from such animals
also has improved color, tender-
ness and flavor.
Treated meat can withstand
higher temperatures than nor-
mal fresh meat, which must be
chilled as soon as possible after
the beast has been killed —good
news for parts of the world
where refrigeration and distri-
bution facilities are not good.
Canada and U.S.A. have
already given permission for
the drug to be used for preserv-
ing certain meats such as fish
and poultry. Experts stress that
the antibiotic —oxytetracycline
—can only make good meat
better. It can’t make bad meat
good.


Women's letters
MELBOURNE
The round of Christmas gaiety began
in earnest at the weekend, when many
parties and dances were held, and decora-
tions on the festive theme were amongst
the loveliest yet seen.
In the spacious garden of the Toorak
home of Mr. and Mrs. Baillieu Myer two
marquees were erected for a dinner-
dance at which more than 150 guests
were entertained. The hostess, whose
father, Mr. Sam Hordern, came from
Sydney for the party, looked charming
in a draped frock of white chiffon.
Decorations were carried out in pink,
blue and white, and the ceilings were
draped with blue net to simulate an
evening sky in which golden stars
sparkled.
☆ ☆ ☆
At a Christmas-party arranged by the
Robin Hood Committee at the home of
Mrs. O. Heath, Toorak, it was announced
that more than £B5O had been raised for
the Helping Hand Association for
Retarded Children by the Bohemian Ball
and the art competition held recently.
Guests were received by the president
of the committee, Mrs. James Alston, and
her husband, assisted by Mrs. R. Park,
Miss Mabel Lincoln, Mrs. Heath and
her daughter Patricia, and included Mrs.
W. Bushwaller, wife of the U.S. Consul,
Squadron-Leader and Mrs. Kip Porteous,
Mr. and Mrs. J. Littlewood, Miss
Francine Abry, Miss Ann Swallow, Miss
E. Mcßeath, Mr. Bill Ritchie, Mr.
Geoffrey Ingram, Mr. Claude Gaillet and
Mr. Tony Atkinson.
☆ ☆ ☆
An illuminated Christmas-tree, 12ft.
high and hung with tinselled ribbons,
colored-glass ornaments and gaily-
wrapped packages, provided a festive
background for the official table at the
Royal Women’s Hospital ball at St. Kilda
Palais.
The Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks were present, accompanied
by Miss Wendy Raphael. They were
received by the president of the hospital’s
board of management, Miss K. Syme, and
by Dr. and Mrs. George Bearham. Lady
Brooks wore a princess-line gown of
China-blue satin, with a stole of Arctic-
fox. Pink and green satin was chosen
for her draped gown by Miss Syme, and
an orchid of golden-green looked charm-
ing on the white-and-gold brocade of
the strapless gown worn by Mrs.
Bearham.
Also present in the official party were
Professor and Mrs. S. L. Townsend, Dr.
and Mrs. George Simpson, Mr. and Mrs.
A. E. Prytz, Mr. and Mrs. C. W. Weick-
hardt, Mrs. Lytton Stephens, Mr. and
Mrs. O. E. Bowden and Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Leckie.
Mrs. Graham Godfrey, who was in
charge of decorations, chose a full-
skirted frock of orchid-pink satin, over
which she wore a fur stole. The honorary
secretary of the - ball committee, Mrs.
Vernon Hollyock (there with her husband,
Dr. Hollyock), was in pink and blue
chiffons made with full skirt over a
taffeta slip of deeper pink.
Others present included Dr. and Mrs.
Cyrus Jones, Dr. and Mrs. Kelvin
Churches, Dr. and Mrs. Bruce Anderson,
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Jackson (her
bouffant dress was of taupe-organza and
Chantilly-lace), Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Dott,
Mr. A. Cunningham, the secretary of the
hospital, and Mrs. Cunningham, Miss
Alison Lemon (in a full-skirted frock of
white-and-black spotted chiffons), Mr.
Alan Jarman, Mr. and Mrs. H. Hadlow,
Mr, and Mrs. G. Sauvarin and Dr. and
Mrs. Freedman.
Newpomer to the American colony in
Melbourne is Mrs. Colin Campbell, -who
happily combines a business career as a
director of the Arthur Murray studios
with that of a housewife in a Toorak
flat, which she looks forward" to exchang-
ing soon for a house built to her own and
her husband’s specifications just out of
town. She met and married her co-
director husband in Miami, where it is
almost against the taw to paint your home
in anything but a gay color, and they
lived for some years at Los Angeles, where
children of film-stars were amongst their
pupils. Mrs. Campbell is already swept-
up in many of the money-raising activities
of the charitable organisations to which
so many of her countrywomen in Mel-
bourne belong, and is deep in personal
plans for giving a special Christmas treat
to physically-handicapped children.
A decorated Christmas-tree and
festoons of colored lights were in the
foyer of the Little Theatre on Saturday
night for the premiere of its first revue,
“Little by Little,” in which topical songs,
dances and satirical sketches of local
interest entertained a large audience.
Those present included Mr. and Mrs.
W. McKechnie (her dress of champagne-
colored silk-organza was worn with a
matching stole), Mr. and Mrs. E. Roch-
fort, Miss Judy Granowski, Mr. P.
Leech, Mr. and Mrs. George Fairfax,
Mrs. David Worrall, Mr. and Mrs.
Massey Burnside, Mrs. Peter Randall and
her daughter Jacqueline, arid Mr. and
Mrs. A. T. Smithers.
# v #
Carol-singing and a musical programme
provided enjoyable entertainment at a
Christmas-party to aid the Save the
Children Fund, given at Mrs. Penleigh
Boyd's home at East Burwood.
It started off at a morning barbecue,
which was thoroughly enjoyed by
younger patrons, for whom a treasure-
hunt and games were specially provided.
The money raised by the group goes
to the fund’s headquarters in London,
and is used for the five children who
have been “adopted” by the Australian
members. They include two French
children, one Scottish girl and two
Austrian boys.
CANBERRA
'The grourKis of Mrs. Ken Anderson’s
home, Pine Ridge, Weetangara, were
the setting for a Christmas garden-party
arranged by the Canberra branch of
the Victoria League. President Mrs. lan
Baird chose a full-skirted nylon frock in
beige with matching straw hat ; also
noted Mrs. S. A. Minto, in a grey-and-
white patterned linen suit ; Mrs. Fred
Ordish, wearing dark-blue nylon
embossed in white ; Miss Hilda Jackson’s
attractive frock in grey silk ; Mrs. M.
Bradbury, who chose a large lime-straw
hat with her charcoal-linen frock; Mrs.
B. Press, in grey-and-write coin-spot
linen ; Lady Brown, just back from
abroad ; Mrs. T. Heyes ; Mrs. J. Stubbs ;
Mrs. L. Hooper ; Mrs. J. T. Laird and
Mrs. Beresford-Brown.
* ☆ ☆
Another enjoyable Christmas-party
was the buffet-dinner given by the
Business and Professional Women’s Club
of Canberra at the Hotel Civic. Among
guests welcomed by the president, Mrs.
R. L. Hawke, were Mrs. Walther Hess
(wife of the German Ambassador), who
chose an elegant frock in black silk
patterned with yellow roses ; and Mrs. G.
Blank —her frock in black-and-red
brocade. Members of the Soroptimists
Club at this party were president Miss I.
Crespin and Mrs. E. Chandler.
☆ ☆ ☆
To entertain New Zealand visitors in
Canberra for the Graduation Day cele-
brations at the Royal Military College,


Duntroon, the High Commissioner
for N.Z. and Mrs. G. E. L. Alderton
gave a buffet dinner-party at their Mugga
Way home. Among the guests were
Major-General C. E. Weir, Chief of the
General Staff, N.Z. ; Brigadier J. R. Page,
of Wellington ; Colonel D. A. Caughley,
deputy-head of the N.Z. Joint Services
Liaison Staff, Melbourne; Major and
Mrs. F. H. Childs ; Senior-Under-Officer
L. Lynch and his mother, Mrs. A. Lynch ;
Mr. and Mrs; W. McGuire with Color-
Sergeant J. McGuire ; Mr. and Mrs. R.
Andrews with Sergeant R. Andrews ; and
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Cotton.
SYNEY
There are parties, parties everywhere
at present and many a drop to drink
(including the orange-juice). Perhaps
the prettiest “do” of the week was the
R.A.A.F. Ball at Lapstone, where Air-
Commodore G. C. Hartnell and officers
of the Home Command entertained about
250 guests. There was a good moon,
good because it was romantically soft yet
not bright enough, according to the hosts,
to show that the whole mountainside and
even the huge Christmas-tree beside-the
pool had suffered badly from the bush-
fires. Group-Captain and Mrs. Reddrop
brought their daughters Annabelle and
Judy, and in the young people’s party
were Susan and lan Phillips (whose
parents, Squadron-Leader and Mrs.
Keith Phillips, also entertained a party),
Jan Bore, just back from England, Mar-
garet Matthews and University students
Peter Wakeford, Michael Stuckey, Angus
Houston and Michael Willis. Other
young dancers were John and Frank
Ralph, sons of Flight-Lieut. Ralph and
Mrs. Ralph, with Mavis Holstien and
Julie Rust.
There was a gay atmosphere at the
Christmas-party of the newly-formed
Stage and Society Club at its very
central rooms in Pitt Street. Miss Leah
Bailey threw great verve into such songs
as “A Good Man Is Hard to Find,”
Billy Robertson provided music bright or
dreamy and a song composed by himself,
and Jean Garling, in costume, spoke her
nostalgic Christmas piece “Recollec-
tions.” Mrs. C. T. Lorenz welcomed the
guests, including the Countess de Vilme-
Hautmont (who delegated the cake-cutting
ceremony to Mrs. Iney Marden), Mr. and
Mrs. L. A. Robb, Dr. and Mrs. Errol
King and Mr. John Nolan.
The United Service Institution held its
Christmas cocktail-party at H.M.A.S.
Rushcutter this year, a pleasant choice,
for although the said H.M.A.S. is not a
ship, but a naval establishment at Rush-
cutter Bay, the charm of the bay, the
fairylights and the band gave it an indi-
vidual quality. The institute’s president,
popular Major-General Ivan Dougherty,
and Mrs. Dougherty were the official
welcomers. Guests-of-honor were the
Governor, Lieut.-General E. W. Wood-
ward, and Mrs. Woodward, and also
present were Sir William and Lady
McKell .with Miss Betty McKell.
Everybody at the gala-opening dinner
for the Dior parades at David Jones’
looked very glamorous to these wondering
eyes, for although there were a few little
pussy-cats present saying such things as
“My dear, who is the lady in the rain-
coat?” about someone wearing an even-
ing cloak, it really was an occasion for
airing the most gorgeous garments the
wardrobe could supply. Nonetheless, the
parade itself made one wonder whether
the wardrobe in its present condition
would be able to provide anything at all
in the new season. For the sack-line is
definitely established, and it was clear
that a sack in the new sense is not just two
bits of material sewn up the sides, but a
most seductively-cut garment. There is a
rounded line also —not the “tiny-
waist and bouffant skirt” style that we
know so well, but a curved bell-shape
that will be very, very hard to copy. A
most instructive parade, a “must,” it
seems, for anyone interested in fashion.
Author Dymphna Cusack, who has
lived abroad for the past eight years, has
just returned home to Sydney. Her
immediate reason was to attend the
wedding of her niece and god-daughter
Dymphna Tynan, of Coogee, but she also
plans to write a book about life in a
country town and will visit the Goulburn
district in the New Year “to get the feel
of it once more.” At the reception given
in her honor during the week by the
Fellowship of Australian Writers Miss
Cusack said that another reason for
returning was that she “could not think
like a European any more.” The author
of eight books and ten plays, Miss
Cusack has had her work published in
many countries and receives fan-mail in
21 languages. For the past 18 months
she has been living in China and she has
written a book on the women of that
country.
Most memorable remark of the week
was made by Lord Ferrers, a Conserva-
tive (definitely!) peer, when speaking of
the Government proposal to admit
women to the House of Lords. He said it
would be “an unmitigated disaster,” and
added: “We like and admire women.
We even sometimes grow fond of them.
But we do not want them in this place.”
* * *
It was fascinating to note how, at the
final meeting for the year of the Lady
Mayoress's Relief Fund, eight people
representing eight different charities made
such individual and interesting speeches
of thanks. Rev. Douglas Cole, represent-
ing the Presbyterian Church, compli-
mented the Lord Mayor, Aid. H. F.
Jensen, on the “Meals on Wheels” project
which the Council had inaugurated, and
added: “I got into trouble over this by
choosing washing-day for the Presby-
teriari women to help.” Mrs. D. Wills,
representing Windgap Home for Sub-
Normal Children, also complimented the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress on the
work they had done for the home. “We
would not have had a Home had it not
been for them,” she said. The sum of
£2760 was distributed, the result of the
year's work. , “Never say ‘cold as
charity,’ ” said Mr. T. >Valden, represent-
ing the Society of St. Vincent de Paul,
“For charity is warm. It is what gives
us life and makes us one with our fellow-
men.”
Nearly £ll,OOO, proceeds of this year’s
Black and White Ball, was presented to
Mr. Justice Maxwell, chairman of the
Royal Blind Society, at a party given by
the ball-committee during the week. The
president, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, thanked
an imposing list of people who had
helped to raise this record sum, and men-
tioned that the £l6OO which came in from
the Baby Competition (organised bv
Mrs. Neville Manning) was to be devoted
to the Victor Maxwell Home for Blind
Babies. “So we have our babies working
for the little blind babies, v said Mrs.
Dekyvere. A nice thought!
☆ ☆ ☆
A hint for children’s parties comes
from a mother who recently entertained
25 littlies at a birthday celebration. She
had spent weeks making lamingtons,
sausage-rolls, etc., and storing them in
the deep-freeze. “But,” she says, “all I
need have provided were cocktail frank -
furts, meringues and lime-cordial.”
V V V
Heard on the air that the headmaster
of Sydney Grammar had spoken on
speech-day of an experiment to be tried
next year, something new to cope with
boys whose groundwork was inadequate.
A class called Remove was to be insti-
tuted for them. Shades of Bob Cherry,
Harry Wharton, Billy Bunter and Co.!
There’s nothing new about Remove. All
the best people belonged to it, and, what’s
more, they never got out of it.
☆ ☆ ☆
By the way, the Royal Blind Society
is to receive the proceeds of the Arthur
Murray Medal Ball to be held at the
Pickwick on Thursday next. Medals will
be presented to the winners of the
dancing competitions, and it is rumored
that some well-known names will be
called in the ceremony.


Veliqkted users
acclaim NEW Rolls
SUPER BLARE
The greatest-even
I
shaving
■■■
ROLLS
ONE-BLADE SAFETY
-BETTER THAN EVER!
r*C<&s
'S2
honed
'AND STROPPED
IN ITS CASE
They've seen it . . . shaved with it . . . and the unanimous
verdict is that the new Rolls Super Blade is the finest ever!
Glowing accounts reach us daily: this world-famous razor
now shaves, even closer, smoother, faster. Honed and
stropped in its case, the new-process blade gives years of
luxurious money-saving shaving. The world's best razor—
now better than ever! At leading stores, chemists
tobacconists, and hairdressers £5/7/6.
GIVE HIM A
MLS Mm
THE BETTER-THAN-EVER ONE-BLADE SAFETY
THIS CHRISTMAS!
ROILS RAZOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
BIG BLOKE IN BLUE
By D.J.
Detectives could be
forgiven if they were
biased the other way;
yet most of them down
at C. 1.8. will admit that there is
no crime-deterrent yet invented
that is worth a bumper against
the mere sighting of the blue
uniform of a policeman on his
beat.
Pop Brighton’s uniform was
an imposing one, nearly split-
ting at its seams, and with a
sergeant’s crown on the sleeve.
With his cap on, Pop would be
about as fine a figure of a man
as you could find anywhere.
When his cap was hanging on
the hook, the story was a little
different.
His brow was corrugated like
a bulldog’s, and his hair was
snowy white. He had just three
months to go. Then there
would be long-service leave,
pension, his garden, and some
very rich memories to consult
while he dug.
Take away that cap and
Pop’s face was the sort you
would like to meet over a beer,
or to sit up with on an all-night
train. It w ; as weatherbeaten,
certainly, but kind too, and
interesting.
The station men were already
docking their pay each week
for Pop’s send-off. It was going
to be a whale of a party, and
they would get him a fine
present. The day after it, when
they looked at that chair he had
used, they would probably feel
lost without him. Pop was the
oracle. The young men had
never found a tricky circum-
slance that Pop had not been
through years ago, and so he
could always give them the
right bearing to steer.
T>OP got up from his table
*- and went across to the
notice-board. He tacked up the
group of photos that had just
come in from headquarters.
He knew the four men in
them by sight—three safe-
breakers, one car-stripper. He
looked closely at the photo of
the girl for a while, so that he
would know her by sight, too.
She had participated in armed
hold-ups of taxi-drivers. She
looked like it.
Pop glanced at the clock and
started packing-up for the
night. He took the key from
the safe and left it with Clancy,
the desk-constable, and said
good-night.
Then he put on
his cap and stepped
out into the night.
He felt the length
of the shift now.
The walk up to the
bus-stop had got
longer. The pave-
ments had grown
harder and jarred
his bad knee, so that
by the time he got to
the bus he was
usually limping. The
nights were darker,
too, than they used
to be, and he had to
watch himself cross-
ing roads.
But in that uni-
form you would
never know Pop was
on the old. side. He
walked aiong, his
steel heel - plates
making a regular
crash on the pave-
ment. And then he
noticed something
m the dark ahead.
TT was a tiny pinpoint of
A light, probably from a
pencil-torch, shining into the
lock on the door of a shipping
company’s office.
The little light went out. A
figure moved off in the dark,
casually. Pop could not hear
the footfalls. The figure
vanished around a corner. A
Pop went after him and saw
the man now in the brighter
street, running up hill.
Pop called out: “Stop. I want
to talk to you.”
He heard the running feet
now.
He called out again: “I’ll
shoot if you don’t stop.”
That was malarky. Pop had
not known where his gun was
for nearly a year, but thought
it was somewhere in the ward-
robe at home. Even if he had
it, he could not hit a barn any
more.
The man shot around a
corner, and Pop started running
too. He stopped at the corner,
puffing, but with a grin on his
face.
Pop walked now. He knew
that man could not get away
unless he ducked back, for he
had run into what was a blind
street, with no ways out except
the way he had come, and a
12ft. drop over a wall at the
other end.
The man clambered up and
was perched on the wall ready
to jump. Pop hurried up. He
wanted to be there when the
man landed.
He jumped as Pop
approached the wall. He landed
with a grunt.
“Really, Miss Wimple!”
Pop heard him running
below, looking for a way out of
the yard, and then Pop yelled
out: “Clancy, come out the
back. Turn the .lights on. You
have an intruder on your
premises.”
Constable Clancy did just
that. When the light went on
they blazed on the man
crouched beside the station
lock-up.
Clancy called up: “This is
Neild, you know. Break-and-
enter list as long as your arm.”
“I knew it, my boy,” said
Pop.
He could lie better, too, now
he was old.


A Christmas-gift to
Fascinate —
“THE LETTERS OF
RACHEL HENNING”
A "Bulletin" Bestseller
This charming and absorbing real-life story of
Australia 100 years ago, told in sparkling, gossipy prose
by Rachel Henning herself, has become a classic of
Australian biography, and is one of the most talked-about
books published in recent years.
“The Letters of Rachel Henning” read like a
romantic novel. If you have never read them there is
real delight in store for you. If you have read them you
will realise what a charming present they will make for
a friend.
Not the smallest attraction of the book are the
40 exquisite pen-drawings by Norman Lindsay.
Copies of "The Letters of Rachel Henning" will be
sent, post-free, to any address in Australia upon
receipt of 7s. 6d. (seven shillings and sixpence) by
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. f LTD.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney,
and branch offices in Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth.
/‘Always comes in at this time.”
“What r
“Checks my stuff.”
“Gawdstruth! ” or some-
thing came back with a rush
of air through the door. I was
alone.
One day the editor himself
burst in and slumped in the
spare chair, panting and
harassed, watching the door
like a cornered convict. Calm
at last, he slipped out without
satisfying my curiosity. His
lush sanctum had its own
adequate defences ; that day he
must have been caught in the
open.
It was just on midnight one
New Year’s Eve when the
editor paid another visit to that
room and was handed a mighty
stiff rum. He downed it and,
eyes watering, wordlessly left
the room. He sent back a
grizzled staff-man, ex-R.N.,
who could really handle rum.
THERE were all sorts of
reporters, and cricketer
Bill O'Reilly added to their
variety. Here I can use a real
name. First day of a Test-
match against the Indians he
loomed at the press-box
entrance prepared to'report the
game
“There you are, Mr.
O’Reilly,” said an efficient
attendant, pointing to a type-
writer all set up for him.
O’Reilly fished a two-inch
pencil-stub from a pocket,
gripped it in his bowling fist
and waved typewriter away.'
“To hell with those new-
fangled contraptions! ” he
said, and while his words hung
in the air every typewriter in
the world seemed unnecessary.
©N a Queensland paper a
very new and nervous
young reporter was summoned
one evening before his chief-
of-staff. The son of a most
eminent U.K. political figure
was in port as third-engineer on
a ship.
“He’s refused to be inter-
viewed in Fremantle, Adelaide,
Melbourne and Sydney,” said
the chief-of-staff, “so don’t be
too down-hearted if he won't
see you. Just do your best.”
The youth trickled out.
On the ship the third-
engineer was opening a case
of Queensland beer in his
cabin.
“Glad, to meet you, old
chap,” he said. “Absolutely!
Have a beer?”
In a mood to see the sights,
the third-engineer impressed the
reporter as guide. There
followed a painstakingly
thorough voyage of discovery
with dragnet characteristics
and attendant taxicab. The
youth stuck like glue and came
back with the story. It was a
good one. All the facts. The
chief-of-staff gave the lad a
pat on the baqk and permission
to go home.
Then he put the story where
it couldn’t possibly get pub-
lished, but would be available
for private reading by con-
noisseurs.
TT N Sydney a reporting friend
got his first reprimand
when he arrived at the news-
paper-office one day in a
shocked condition and ex-
plained that a woman had just
fallen from a block of flats
and hit the pavement within
six-feet of him.
He was ticked-off severely for
imagining that his narrow
escape was a story, and Was
sent back for the details. The
deceased had seemed depressed.
Much later, and more
hardened, the same reporter
raced in a car to an outer
suburb following a report of
an axe-murder in a railworker’s
camp. The camp seemed quiet,
so he drove on to the nearest
police-station for information.
The police had heard nothing
of it, but the sergeant decided
to return to the camp in the
reporter’s car to check.
At the camp the murder was
now in full swing, the murderer
just finishing-off his third
victim with an axe. All
victims were in the same tent.
The reporter wrote his story
and went home with a glow of
satisfaction. In the morning
he woke to the sound of the
phone ringing. Aha! The
plaudits! He reached for the
phone with ears agog. It was
the editor —and a searing
reprimand. The editor was a
stickler for accuracy:
“You used the word
‘shambles,’ Mr. Locke?’’
“Yes! And you should have
seen it”--
“Do you know the meaning
of the word ‘shambles,’ Mr.
Locke?”
“Certainly”
“It’s a word redolent of
abattoirs! ” Click !
The reporter dropped his
phone. There was ice on it.
But the editor had impressed
him. He was awestruck.
“Gawd!” he said later, running
his mind over the scene in the
tent. “How much blood does
he want ?”
*TpHIS reporter developed a
knack of saving his skin
after long and unexplained
disappearances by turning-up
with something exclusive and
good. It’s a tricky technique
and not every man’s meat.
Covering the Jap war for a
London paper he vanished for
so long that there were
posthumous anecdotes getting
around, and, away from the
London office, he was even
being referred to as “Good old
Locke” in reminiscent circles.
Then out of the blue came
a vivid and exclusive eye-
witness account of a crucial and
bitter island engagement.
The London editor capitalised
on his reporter’s lengthy
dereliction of duty:
“For six months ‘Evening
Lamp-post’ correspondent
Locke has been lost in the vast
silences of the Pacific . . . And
now comes this” —with the
story following.
It had been a vast silence all
right, but all’s well that ends
well. A similar vast silence
years earlier in the Far East
didn’t end so well. Then our
man hadn’t perfected his
method and stoked coal home
to Sydney,
press - photographers
H were a strange clan and
far more inscrutable than
reporters. Hence I was dumb-
founded one day to encounter
one with tears in his eyes,
“I’ve been fired! ” he croaked,
“Fired after twelve years!”
“I’m sorry,” I told him.
“What did they do that for?”
“For nothing at all. Their
own bloody incompetence,
They couldn’t find me.”
“Couldn’t find you! How
long did they look?”
“They gave up after three
days!”
With his he
set-up a commercial studio
and hasn’t looked back. . .
To me—for these and count-
less similar reasons a daily
newspaper is still a daily
miracle, performed by very
human beings.


THE HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA'S LARGEST &
MOST FRIENDLY HOTEL!
Make The Hotel Metropole your
second home. Ideally situated in
the heart of Sydney, close to
theatres, shops and transport. The
quiet relaxed atmosphere is backed
by the superb service that only Aus-
tralia’s biggest and friendliest hotel
could offer. The Hotel Metropole
has over 40<f rooms, all with tele-
phones, 50 with private bathrooms ;
swift, efficient room service ; five
superbly appointed reception rooms
for social or business functions and
Sydney’s finest dining-room and
cellar.
The Hotel Metropole
"THE COUNTRYMAN'S
HOME IN SYDNEY"
B 0522. Box 1601, G.P.O
OPES
oj Every Type
and Size
Famous for many
years as Queensland's
premier manufacturers
of envelopes we pro-
duce the well known—
“JAXUL” PATENT
CLEAR - FACE WIN-
DOW Envelopes in
sizes 5f ins. x ins.,
6| x 3| and 9 ins. x
4 ins. ,
Plain or Printed
PAY AND SEED En-
velopes in all sizes,
No. 1 to No. 8.
Plain or Printed
COMMERCIAL En -
velopes in all standard
sizes and qualities,
plain or printed.
Samples and Prices
on application
m
.
*3?
¥
Jackson &
O’Sullivan m,.lw.
Envelope Manufacturers
Manufacturing Stationers <& Printers
304-306 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Inter .
WITH pardonable loyalty,
racegoers at Flemington
last Saturday gave local rider
Bill Williamson an enthusiastic
reception when he rode a model
race to win the International
Stakes on Harry Lime.
• • • •
Even allowing for William-
son’s intimate knowledge of
the course, he showed to great
advantage against the visiting
riders. Realising that the pace
was slow he drove his mount
to the lead at the half-mile, kept
the pressure on, and had the
race won before the field
straightened up. In the run
along the straight his smooth
hands-and-heels style contrasted
sharply with the exaggerated
whip-flailing of most of his
opponents. '
Although Harry Lime won
the Stakes £2OOO first-prize with
a lot in hand, half-a-dozen
horses had a desperate struggle
for the minor prizes. The
camera showed Buzzie, well
handled by young local
apprentice R. Mallyon, in
second place, just in front of
Beaupa, vigorously ridden by
the German, Heine Bollow.
It was only on the eve of
the race that Williamson gained
the mount on Harry Lime.
Iheo Lewis, trainer of the
winner, and a close friend of
“Scobie” Breasley, tried hard,
with the backing of the Mel-
bourne Racing Club, to per-
suade Breasley to take the ride
on Harry Lime. Breasley was
adamant that his trip was a
holiday visit only.
The Melbourne Racing Club
staged the International Stakes
with a nice sense of pageantry.
The official programme of the
day displayed on its front cover
the flags of the eight nations
represented in the race. Horses
engaged paraded in racebook
order, with the course
announcer introducing the
riders. The M.R.C., which
originated the International
Stakes two years ago, was
rewarded for its enterprise by
a particularly good “gate.”
Racegoers in Sydney and
Brisbane will have the oppor-
tunity over the next two
Saturdays of seeing the over-
seas riders. Present viewer
gained the impression that the
Continental riders do not
measure up to local standards.
However, the Queen’s jockey,
L. Piggott, and the South
African, C. Barends, are superb
jockeys. Piggott sits rather
straighter than local riders ; he
is a “cold” rider,” getting the
best out of his mount with
strong hands-and-heels, without
unnecessary bustle. Barends
rides in the Australian style:
Crouched low, he keeps firm
control of a mount, and is fear-
less in going for an opening.
Any horse he rides will be
given every chance to win.
• • • •
Racegoers at Flemington
gained an insight into the
reason for the extraordinary
success of Lester Piggott when
that jockey got Sir William
home the narrowest of winners
in the first Hollywood High-
weight. Although his upright
“seat” looked strange by local
standards, Piggott made the
heavily-weighted Sir William
do his very best to gain the day.
It was suggested here last
March that Sir William is a
horse that appreciates an
important occasion. It was in
March that he won the Queen’s
Cup. Two years ago, when
ridden by Harry Carr, then
first-jockey to the Queen, he
won the first- International
Stakes ; so that now he has the
record of having been ridden
successfully by two of her
Majesty’s jockeys.
• • • •
—And Sydney
Cherry Bank —racing for five
owners, four of them women —-
won the Maiden for fillies at
Rosehill on Saturday in 55 1-10
for the furlongs and 20yds.,
a record for the race. She’s
by Bob Cherry (imp.) from
Pearl Bank (imp.) by Persian
Gulf from Sea Fairy by Fair
Trial.
In winning the First Parra-
matta Stakes at Rosehill, New
Zealand-bred Theodric indi-
cated that he should have bright
prospects when produced in
open company. He has won
four races and been second
three times in seven starts. He
carries the colors sported by
Straight Draw in the Melbourne
Cup. Theodric is by Boissier
(imp.) from Ringway (imp.) by
Fairway from Ferry Pool by
Hyperion, a strong background.
New S.T.C. handicapper
Brian Murphy must have been
pleased with the close finishes
at Rosehill, the first meeting
for which he has decided the
weights. In the Flying, the
Christmas Cup and the Welter
(all handicaps) the finishes were
particularly close. In the Fly-
ing half-a-dozen horses were
almost in line about a furlong
or so from the finish, Indian
Empire winning narrowly from
Akatarawa and Flames. The
photo-finish was semaphored
for Caranna’s race (the Cup)
and also for the Welter, won
in the last stride by the
favorite, Bronze Mac.
The Jack Denham stable,
horses from which are often
supported for many thousands
of pounds, found Saturday at
Rosehill one of its most costly
in years. It supplied three
seconds, Sonar Star, Half
Hennesy and Persian Link, the
first two heavily backed, while
Persian Link, though a 12-to-l
chance, was well fancied also.
Sonar Star spoilt her chance
by running wide at the top of
the straight. Half Hennesy had
the Cup won until the final few
strides, where Caranna poked
his head in front. As Caranna
carried 9.6 he should run a
great race in the Summer Cup,
even though J. Thompson had
to ride the five-year-old right
out to score by a short head.
Time for the mile-and-a-
quarter, 2.3 3 /10, was a race
record.
In the seven races at Rose-
hill one runner that did seem
a good thing beaten was Lord
Northbrook in the Welter.
There were two behind him in
a strung-out field of 20, and
at the top of the straight he
was still second-last, but he
then came on in fine style to
finish third, less than a length
and a half from the winner,
Bronze Mac.
Gondolier, bought at the
Randwick yearling-sales last
Easter for 3400gn5., had his
first race-start at the Canter-
bury Park midweek meeting
and won the Two-year-old


WHEN YOU VALUE
Old Photographs
why trust them to door to door
canvassers? Send them to a firm
of 20 years’ standing. We will
quote size, coloring, framing,
spotting, etc.
SEND YOUR PHOTOS TO US
PROGRESS PHOTOS,
Midway Arcade,
256 Collins St., Melbourne,
Victoria.
"Smiler"
Maiden Stakes for colts and
geldings in the fast time of 1.3|.
He’s a Nilo ; his dam, Water-
lady, was a top three-year-old
filly, winning the V.R.C. Oaks,
the Adrian Knox Stakes and
the Mersey Stakes.
Canterbury Park Second
Maiden winner Meadow is a
three-year-old filly by Berry-
lands (imp.) from Landseer by
Brueghel (It.). Landseer’s dam,
Bay Meadows, was a half-sister
to Saint Warden, who won a
division of the Caulfield Cup on
the only occasion that race has
had to be divided ; Skipton won
the other division. Meadow
was a 400gns. yearling at the
Randwick sales last year.
+ +
Sport Dragnet
In Glasgow in a rough, tough
game, the Australian Rugby Union
Wallabies defeated Edinburgh-
Glasgow 9-3. All points came in
the second half, and all came from
goals (Australia, three penalty-goals
by fullback Lenehan; the home
side’s was a field-goal). In this
game star centre Jim Phipps broke
an ankle, and will not play again
on tour. At Hawick the Wallabies
beat a strong South of Scotland side
12- after leading 6-3 at half-time.
Both wingers, Donald and Bailey,
crossed, and the other six points
came from two field-goals; the
Border Unions’ six points came from
penalties. One feature of the game,
a fine display at outside-centre by the
moved-up Lenehan.
At the two-day athletic match in
Melbourne between Victoria and
N.S.W., Victoria won by one point
(117 points to 116), after haviig a
13- lead at the end of the
lirst day. Some outstanding efforts:
Hec Hogan (Vic.) proving he’s still
Australia’s No. 1 sprinter by defeat-
ing the two promising N.S.W. lads
Bromhead and McCann (winning the
100yds. in 9.95ec.). Without Hogan
in it, Bromhead won the 220yds. in
22sec.
“Four-minute mile r” Mery
Lincoln, with a dazzling last lap of
56sec., won the mile in 4min. 3.7 sec.
Kevan Gosper, once of N.S.W., now
of Vic., won the 440yds. in 48.1 sec.
The 120yds. hurdles was won by the
promising Barry Primrose (N.S.W.),
while the 220yds. hurdles was won by
Cann, of N.S.W., with his team-
mate and near-namesake McCann
second.
Albert Thomas (N.S.W.), in
13min. 25.95ec., took I.ssec. off the
Australian three-mile record (13min.
27.45ec.) set by John Landy. Jim
McCann won the long-jump with an
Australian-record leap of 25ft. 2in.,
disallowed because of wind-
assistance. Graham Thomas
(N.S.W.) won the 3000yds. steeple-
chase.
At the Memorial Drive courts,
Adelaide, the U.S.A. cleaned-up the
Philippines 5-0 in the Davis Cup
interzone-final; the Filipinos didn’t
wm a set. The interzone-final against
Belgium, beginning tomorrow in
Brisbane, should prove a tougher
test for Seixas, Flam and Mulloy.
In Perth, on Monday, Dec. 2,
Australian heavyweight champion
Alan Williams, of N.S.W., k.o.’d
W.A. s Steve Zoranich in the 15th
round to retain his title. (When an
amateur, Zoranich represented Aus-
tralia at the 1954 Empire Games.)
ln Chicago (U.S.A.), on Dec. 4,
world lightweight champion Joe
Brown successfully defended his
title against Joey Lopes. After Joey
had done most of the earlier stoush-
ing, Joe opened-up with the big
guns in the 11th round, and had
Joey almost off to bye-byes when
the ref. stepped in. It was Brown’s
third defence of his title—for three
k.o. wins.... In Melbourne last
Friday night Billy Todd defeated
Italian Angelo Brisci on a t.k.o. in
the third round, while in Brisbane
the same night Queensland welter
champ. Jack* Walsh stopped old
Sydney hand Bert Hornb’y in the
eighth round.
* * *
“Virgo”; On Nov. 21, at
Ipswich (Q.), Tattersall’s Club
cricket XI, which included
three well-known bookmakers,
played a team of clergymen
(eight C. of E. and three R.C.),
the clergymen winning by 29
runs. The following Sunday
the losers all went to church.
Had the Club XI won, the
clergy had promised to commit
the sacrilege of attending the
races. A return-match has been
arranged for February next, so
the rev. gents will have another
chance to get an excuse for
going to one of the devils. In
the Nov. 21 game £2OO was
collected, to be divided equally
between C. of E. and R.C.
charities.
* * #
“Ardoyne”: By invitation of
the six Victorian associated
public schools, five more Mel-
bourne schools are to compete
in the public schools’ cricket,
football and athletics competi-
tions Caulfield Grammar,
Brighton Grammar, Haileybury
College, Carey Baptist
Grammar and St. Kevin’s
Christian Brothers’ College.
However, none of them has
rowing facilities, so the Head
of the River will still be con-
fined to the original schools
—Melbourne and Geelong
Grammars, and Wesley, Scotch,
Xavier and Geelong Colleges.
* * *
An All Black Champion
“O’Cuinn” (N.Z.) on Ron
Jarden, record-breaking Rugby
Union goalkicker-winger;
Let me add to and correct one
or two points made here a while
back by “N.A.8.”
After the Tests against the Spring-
boks in 1956 Jarden said he would
not again be available for N.Z. or
for Wellington in away matches ;
but at the beginning of the 1957
season he said he would play in
invitation games. He played in one
first-class game this year, bringing his
total of first-class matches to 134
(not 131 as given by “NiA.B.”).
On Saturday Sept. 21 he played for
Centurions against Wellington B,
and afterwards announced be would
definitely not play again. Since he’s
a fit 27, retirement is premature ;
but his Rugb'y had made serious
inroads on his firm’s time in recent
years, so he decided to sacrifice it.
In this game he showed most of
his old ability by scoring 19 of the
Centurions’ 33 points against
Wellington B (36) ; his tally
included four tries, two conversions
and a penalty.
In his 134 games Jarden scored
945 points (not “N.A.B.’s” 915
points)—an N.Z. record. This was
made up of 145 tries, 141 conversions
and 76 penalty-goals—an average
of seven points a match. For N.Z.
he scored 213 points in 37 games,
and for Wellington 483 points in 63
gomes. The other 34 games he played
for the North Island, New Zealand
University and various first-class
ciubs in invitation matches. In
these he scored 249 points.
These are a few of his other
achievements: a world-record indi-
vidual points-total in one game—
-38, v. Central West (N.S.W.) in
1951 ; an N.Z. record individual
points-total in one game—27, for
Wellington v. Southland in 1955 ;
an N.Z. record points-total in first-
class games in one home-season—
-200, in 1955 (in 16 games, includ-
ing 87 points in the last four)-; and
another N.Z. record in that he
topped 100 points in first-class games
in four different seasons—l9s2
(113), 1953 (122;), 1954 (156) and
*955 (200). An interesting point is
that he never once scored a field-
goal or a goal from a mark.
As there are always New
Zealanders indulging in arguments
on the merits of Scott and Nepia as
fullbacks, so too there have naturally
been many discussions of the relative
abilities of Jarden and W. J. Wallace,
the All Black winger-fullback of
1903-05 vintage. Certainly Wallace
scored 379 points for N.Z., against
Jarden’s 213 ; but, after all, no side
could today tour Britain and France
and score 868 points to 47, as did
the 1905 All Blacks. On that tour
Wallace scored 240-odd points. On
the 1953-54 tour of the British Isles
Jarden scored 94 points.
When the 1905 side toured, British
Rugby was in a shambles. In their
first match the “Originals” beat
Devon (England’s champion side)
55-4! Besides, it seems to be agreed
that with the old 2-3-2 scrum there
were greater opportunities for back
play. Cliff Porter, captain of the
1924 “Invincibles,” said recently that
if Jarden had played outside Mill,
Nicholls, Cooke and Co., he would
have been walking over the line all
day!
I think that most Enzedders hope
that one day, like Dame Nellie
Melba, Jarden will make a come-
back.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
rurality, kept alive in the early
chapters of his book, Naught to
33.
He was about three years
older than Griffo. In the tran-
quillity of Forest Lodge it was
necessary to invent ogres to
keep baby Bedford from stray-
ing. At The Rocks, the ogres
came indoors. They were tan-
gible .and violent, and their
habit was to brawl. They
scrapped as naturally and as
noisily as dogs.
Griffo accepted the conven-
tion without question. For
most of his active life, he was
a drop-of-the-hat brawler, and
seemed to get a lot of fun out
of it. Despite his stumpy
Btature, he had shoulders on
him, plus a granite head and
fists like mallets. As time went
on, those fists, fast as dragon-
flies to begin with, learned to
strike with the devil’s own
accuracy.
When he became a newsboy,
he took this useful armament
along with him. Later on he
held strong views against work-
ing for a living, but at the time
he knew no better.
As it turned out, luck had
landed him in a branch of com-
merce in which he was bound to
prosper ; he always commanded
a good pitch. Seeing that the
best pitches were annexed in
gory battle, and defended by the
same means, he went a long
way in the business world.
But the paper-sellers of those
days were not satisfied with this
trade routine stuff. They
looked forward to elimination
free-for-alls in which the best
kerbstone performers grate-
fully sweated. The high voltage
of his knuckles brought Griffo
to the top of these tourneys,
and his uncanny methods came
to be talked of in wider circles.
He was receiving advice from
“Hock” Johnson, who ran a
small but earnest gym. in
George Street North. Griffo
felt indebted to Johnson, and
he never forgot him. Years
later, in America, when Griffo
could be induced to talk about
his early days, Johnson’s name
floated frequently to the
surface.
At seventeen Griffo was the
veteran of dozens of contests,
staged in halls and clubs, for
side-wagers and sometimes for
prizemoney as well. He was in
the happy position of finding
that he carried too many guns
for everybody he met. He
pounded his way from triumph
to triumph, and trampled down
a long string of rib-crackers
and jaw-breakers.
One of them, it happened,
was reputed to laugh at all
attempts to bring him under.
“This Melbourne fellow,”
they warned Griffo, hoping to
get him to take the thing
seriously, “he laughs all the
time. Knock him over, and he
laughs. Gets up and knocks
you down, and laughs again.
You can’t bruise his hide ; he
just laughs at the best you’ve
got.”
Impressed, Griffo trained
himself into a white-heat of
efficiency which blasted his foe
in three rounds of concentrated
wretchedness. As the victim,
was half-carried to the dressing-
room, one of Griffo’s team
commented, “You didn’t have
much trouble hitting that duck,
Griff!”
“No,” Griffo snorted. “’E
couldn't fight for laughing.”
He knew that he had been
taken for a ride.
IT was true that Young Pluto
(Joe Brown), a brisk colored
fighter, and rated at that time as
the smartest featherweight in
the business, had held him to
four consecutive draws —and
was to divide the decision with
him yet a fifth time.
One of these campaigns
dragged on for 70 rounds.
Jack Fuller, Griffo’s principal
second, simplifying the thing
slightly, maintained that at the
end Griffo was unmarked,
whereas Pluto was all battered
out of shape.
Pluto’s own recollections
were full of detail: “I knocked
him down for the first time in
the 51st round, and when he
fell I walked to my corner and
said to Newton ‘l’ve got him
this time.’ Professor Miller had
counted eight when Griffo got
to his feet. I had a minute of
the round left in which to finish
him, and although I aimed a
hundred blows at him, I never
touched him. He was a marvel.
He got right in close, and when
I'd uppercut, his elbow would
be in the way ; I’d swing at his
head, and it wouldn’t be there.
For four rounds after that I
didn’t land a glove on Griffo.
He just made me look as if I’d
never seen a boxing-glove, and
there wasn’t an inch of my
body he didn’t pepper.”
A frank statement. And it
squares neatly with the
opinions of three world’s
champions who later on came
in for the same embarrassment.
The first, Ike Weir, explained
his failure to get started: “How
could I? The air was too full
of bloomin’ boxing-gloves.”
Jack McAuliffe said, “He
was as hard to hit as a smoke-
ring.”
George Lavigne’s impression
was: “It felt like I was being
punched by the referee and
every guy around the ring.”
Over the years, many
attempts have been made to
describe what Griffo did inside
the ropes. For compression,
one of his early opponents
holds the award.
“Why didn’t you wallop him
with your right?” they asked
the despondent battler.
“ ’E moved ’is nut.”
“That was the time to upper-
cut him, then.”
“I did,” the victim patiently
explained. “But like I’m tellin’
yer — ’e moved ’is nut!”
TpLUTO’S five draws with
IF Griffo mystified Americans
who subsequently saw both in
action. After .Joe Bernstein of
New York had whipped Pluto
in February, 1899, an Eastern
critic wrote sourly, “Pluto is
not now, and does not give any
indication that he ever was,
eligible to start in a contest
with Griffo, the cleverest boxer
that ever put up his hands.”
And at that time ten unkind
years had gone by since Griffo
and Pluto had last met. Griffo,
incidentally, was capable three
and a half years later of draw-
ing with Bernstein over eight
rounds at Baltimore.
Before the series of Pluto-
Griffo dogfights was over,
Griffo came under the eye of
the master who, the story runs,
rubbed up the rough diamond
of his genius—Larry Foley.
Foley, regarded as the lead-
ing heavyweight in the country,
was at this time a shrewd
businessman, ruling Sydney’s
sporting circle with a sort of
dogmatic geniality. He was
nearly twenty years older than
Griffo, wore side-whiskers, and
had done considerable battling,
with bare knuckles, under the
old London Prize Ring rules.
He had never lost a fight. A
sprightly warrior, he was tire-
less in action, and his punch-
ing was damaging enough.
Like Griffo, he was schooled
in brawling ; like Griffo again,
he was exposed to formal
LARRY FOLEY
instruction, from which he took
what suited him and threw
overboard the rest. His first
tutor was the negro Black
Perry ; at a later date, Foley
was coached by the notable
Jem Mace.
Mace, a former world's
champion, held the patent for a
methodical and effective style —
a style which had one golden
merit: it could be taught.
Mace taught it to Foley, and
Foley let it out in driblets to
Griffo amongst others. Foley,
never one to keep trade secrets
to himself, had conducted a
boxing academy in Brisbane
and another at Foley’s Hall in
Pitt Street, Sydney, but his
most widely-known establish-
ment was the White Horse Hall


Divorce Notice
IX THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Is Divorce.
TO REGINALD WILBY GORDON late
of Alburv in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that HELEN
MAY -.GORDON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3637 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
and is asking for the exercise of the
Court’s discretion under Section 19 (2)
(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899-
1951 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office, Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 6th day of February 1958
and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. MADDOCKS
COHEN & MAGUIRE, Solicitors, 38
Martin Place, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
‘MI ttlC-
Future
»
It is given to few women—or few men, for
that matter —to launch a ship from half : way across
the world. But the rare distinction came recently
to an Australian, Mrs. D. F. Middleton, whose
husband is a local director of the Port Line
At a ceremony Which I attended in Sydney
she pressed a button, sending an electrical impulse
that launched the new “Port Invercargill’’ from
the Harland and Wolff shipbuilding yard in Belfast.
So one more ship—l thought—goes down
the slips to join the merchant fleets of the world.
One more unit is added to the lines of seacraft
that have been the life-stream of our trade since
Australian settlement began.
In these days when transport in all its forms
takes on increasing importance to the national
economy, we do well to remember that Australia
is, and always will be, a maritime country: both
by its island nature and by the distances that
separate its scattered ports.
With the inclusion of Tasmania, we have here
12,210 miles of coastline —3869 miles more than
the combined Pacific and Atlantic seaboards of
the United States of America. Our prosperity is
inseparable from a healthy shipping.
The structural design of ships may change,
their power in future years may be derived from
atomic energy; but with every conceivable change
that time may bring, shipping will continue
to be the chief means of surface carriage
between nations.
That being so, we can welcome the launching
of every vessel entering the Australian run—
whether it be sent on its way from Belfast or any
of the other famous shipyards overseas, or from
our own Australian shipyards.
And while we are on this subject there is
another point: Faith has ever been the instinct of
mariners and of the men who make the ships to
carry them; and, apart from the service it renders
in commerce, the building of ships like the “Port
Invercargill” is a firm proclamation of Faith in
Australia’s Future.
//
7
—an arena which he had run
up behind his White Horse
Hotel in George Street.
It was no gem of architecture
—to be frank, it was unblush-
ing corrugated-iron and was
known as the Iron Pot. Never-
theless the Iron Pot bubbled
over with a rich stew of boxing
talent (flavored, you would
think, with Mace) such as has
never been matched in these
parts: Peter Jackson, George
Seale, Frank Slavin, Jack
Molloy, Jack Hall, Jim Hall,
Bob Fitzsimmons, Mick
Dooley, Steve O’Donnell,
“Shadow” Mab e r, Billy
McCarthy, Billy Smith, Joe
Goddard—and Albert Griffiths.
Jackson, Slavin, Jim Hall and
Fitzsimmons took abroad their
versions of the Mace technique
to chastise the insolent
foreigner on his home ground,
and with very happy results.
Notably Fitzsimmons, who
gathered two world’s titles and
whose bald head and mighty
freckled arms can still be seen
at first glance into the hall of
heroes.
JUST how much Griffo owed
to Foley, how much of his
ability could be traced to Mace,
and how much was native skill,
was meat for endless argument.
To settle the matter comfort-
ably, it has been agreed that
Foley taught Griffo “the finer
points,” and the maestro him-
self has it that Griffo was
uneasy about defects in his
style, which he asked Foley to
identify and remedy. “He was
the quickest learner of any of
my pupils,” Foley recalled in
after years.
True enough ; if there were
some answers that Griffo didn’t
know, his instinct had alerted
him to recognise them when
they came.
That this was about the size
of the situation was obvious to
wide-awake critics, amongst
them William John Doherty,
one-time Australian heavy-
weight champion, who died as
recently as 1952, aged 84. In
his reminiscences, In the Days
of the Giants, this bluff old
observer, with his vast span of
boxing experience, made his
selection of the greatest fighter
amongst the native-born. He
narrowed the field down to
lour—Frank Slavin, Griffo, Jim
Flail and Les Darcy. His award,
finally, was between Slavin and
Griffo:
“[Griffo’s] speed was
phenomenal and he knew by
instinct more of the science of
boxing than all the professors
of the art could teach in a
generation, but he did not have
a decisive punch... .his lack of
that essential attribute of the
true fighter is sufficient, in my
opinion, to turn the scales of
judgment against him when his
merits are compared with those
of Frank Slavin.”
As to Foley’s coaching,
Doherty recalls: “I have Mick
Dooley’s word for it that the
tuition was far from extensive,
because Griffo was not at all
anxious to do any studying—he
wanted to fight.”
Dooley was Foley’s head
instructor at the time.
According to Doherty, Griffo
would not learn, or try. to learn
—on the other hand, he woulo
fight anywhere and at any time,
with complete unconcern as to
who his opponent was, or what
financial bait was offered. Here
Doherty put his finger on the
core of Griffo’s personality—
his showmanship, his taste for
the limelight. There was never
a real champion, say the
savants, who was not swollen
with conceit.
Another who knew him well
talked about flattery. “Flattery
-—ah, yes, a food he dearly
loved,” he remarked, and the
point was well taken ; Griffo
was a born public performer,
an exhibitionist.
A stage, an audience, the per-
formance . . . and afterwards,
the backslapping, the compli-
ments—these were the moments
ifiat illuminated his existence.
Fight? He would put on a
show every second night if it
could be arranged.
He was continually on view
at the Iron Pot, sometimes box-
ing three or four opponents in
succession—four-round bouts,
conducted at a gallop. Between
opponents Griffo generally
buried his nose in long beers.
They seemed to generate extra
energy; and anyhow the
flamboyant gesture captivated
the onlookers —it made them
gape and guffaw, all of which
pleased him mightily.
Not that he didn’t relish the
beer for its own sake. Quite
the contrary. Beginning young,
he was in process of developing
one of the most publicised
thirsts in history.
(To be continued next week)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque I money-order f0r ......
months' subscription to The Bulletin.
RECIPIENT:
ADDRESS . ..
DONOR: .
ADDRESS
GIFT SUBSCRIPTION: If the above is a Christmas gift
an appropriate Greedngs-card will be sent direct to the
recipient announcing your gift and signed on your behalf
SIGN CARD : . ........
Rates (A/asia): 1 year—£2 Bs.; \ year—£l 4s. 6d. Post
free. British Empire: £2 13s. 6d. Foreign: £3 6s.
N.Z. Currency (Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.):
A/asia: 1 year—£l 18s. 6d.; \ year—l9s. 6d.
British Empire: £2 3s. Foreign: £2 13s.
Please add exchange to country cheques
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE KRAUCEVS late of
Hornsby in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that LEILA
ALICE KRAUCEVS has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2554 of 1957 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three (3) years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 6th day of February
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from MESSRS. K.
BRUDENELL-WOODS & CO.. Solicitors,
of 6a Penfold Place, Sydney.—J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO DAVID FITZPATRICK late of Earl-
wood.—TAKE NOTICE that PAMELA
JEAN FITZPATRICK has filed Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3883 of 1957 on
the grounds of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 14th day of February
1958 and obtain a copy of the Petition
free of charge from JOHN D. NORTON,
Solicitor, of 393 George Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Words of verse which appeared in
The Bulletin many years ago called
“Decensus Avcrni,” or the road to
Hell, the last lines of which are:
Out of alt 111 is wild confusion
After, meditation deep
1 have come to the conclusion
The ltoad to Hell is sheep.
*—6635.
To buy copy of Early Pioneer
Families of Victoria and Riverina,
by Alexander Henderson.—6636.
To buy R. Firth’s Art and Life in
Aew Guinea (Lond., 1936); F.
Fishman’s Beyond Tahiti (Mel-
bourne, 1949); J. D. Fitzgerald’s
History of N.S.W. Labor and Rise of
the Labor Party (1920); R. D.
Fitz Gerald’s Australian Orchids
(Vols. 1 and 2 and index); and any
titles by Arthur Upheld.—6637.
Words of old Bulletin verse
“Boiled Mutton and Caper Sauce.”
—6638. '
To buy copy of The “Bulletin"
Reciter and Fair Girls and Gray
horses, by Will Ogilvic.—6639.
To buy Question Time, by Hubert
Phillips, a book of mathematical
problems.^664o.
Information Supplied
“Odello”: With regard to the
illusionist Maskelyne (“Does Any-
body Know?” B. 20/11 /’57), the
history of “Maskelyne’s” is quite a
big subject.
The original John Nevil
Maskelyne was a great illusionist
and founded an entertainment at the
Egyptian Hall, London, about 1870.
1 have a copy of a “Dictionary of
London,” dated 1879, which carries
an advertisement for “Maskelyne and
Cooke —England's Home of Mystery
—Egyptian Hall —seven years in
London of unparalleled success.”
In 1905 Maskelyne's moved to St.
George's Hail, adjoining the Queen's
Hall m Langham Place,
where they remained for
another 30 years or
more. There were two,
if not three, Maskelynes
in the partnership at
various times—l recall
a Nevil Maskelyne
(whether this was the
original John Nevil or
a son I do not know)
and also a Jasper Maske-
lyne.
David Devant was a
brilliant conjuror jyho
joined the show as such ;
iater on he became a
partner, the name
“Cooke” dropped out
and the entertainment
was known ,as “Maske-
lyne and Devant.” It
ran on right into the
1930’s—I think up to
World War 11 —and may
even be running still?
In its later years it
was known simply as “Maskelyne's.”
J. N. Maskelyne gained much lame
by his exposure of the Davenport
spiritualistic quacks.
A book was published not so very
long ago, written by one of the
partners <1 think), giving the whole
history of the show; l should
imagine that this book would be
available in the Sydney Municipal
and Public Libraries. If not, I am
sure that you could trace a copy
thiough the Sydney branch of tbe
i agic Circle.
“Icara”: J. N. Maskelyne began
his magical career when a youth
in the middle of the last century,
After 50 years of presenting magic
shows at various London halls, he
bought and rebuilt London's St.
George's Hall as a “Palace of
Mysteries.” Here he presented full
magic shows with his partner
“Who brought out THAT Briton ?”
Devant, a sleight-of-hand expert;
Maskelyne himself invented and
piesented the mechanical illusions.
These shows were presented by
J.N., later by his son, and still later
-by his grandson, for 30 years until
St. George’s Hall was bousht by
the 8.8. C.
J.N. was scornful of “Eastern
Magic,” and had a standing
challenge to any illusionist to
perform the Indian rope-trick in
London, the -inducement being a
long engagement aL a fabulous
salary. But, as anticipated, the
challenge was never taken up.
His son is remembered as the
creator of the illusions with which
Lawrence of Arabia astounded the
Arab chieftains of the Western
Desert during World War I.
“J.M.”: John Nevil Maskelyne
(1839-1917) was a famous illusionist
who exposed the mysteries of the.
Davenport Bros, (spiritualistic
quacks) and all other spiritualists
who stuck their necks out. Carried
on under name of Maskelyne and
Cooke at Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly,
London, from about 1873, and i
believe are still on deck. All classic
illusions and some marvellous
automata have been shown there,
some of the turns for years.
All tiptop performers of magic,
stage-illusions and scientific diver-
sions have worked there for various
terms, some for years. A wonderful
show-place, I am told.
J.N.M. was an exceedingly clever
mechanician and made nearly the
whole of the apparatus himself
which he used on stage. „
Devant is (or was) one of a great
number of magicians who have done
their stuff at Maskelyne and
Cooke’s. Over 50 years ago he
perfected an illusion entitled The
Birth of Flora.
• • •' -k •
“Regel”: Maskelyne’s first-name
was Alfred. Consulted once by a
lady who had lost a pet canary, he
gravely suggested there (probably)
was a cat next-door. Consultant
was sure he had solved the mystery,
though she left in tears.
Information Sought
w , mt famous men w rfone
some of their greatest work when
very old?
A similar question was answered
on the Service page (B. 17/11/’s4);'
some of the information here given
was also given then. The painter
Titian painted his “Battle, of
Lepanto” when well over 90;
Bernard Shaw was still wiity and
provocative in his nineties; Verdi,
from the age of 74 to 80, wrote the
operas ”Falstaff” and “Otello,”
considered by many to be his two
masterpieces; Sibelius, who died
recently at 91, was believed to be
still composing at the time of his
death ; Edison was inventing highly
practical gadgets in his eighties;
Galileo performed some important
scientific experiments when over 70;
Michelangelo did some of his
gieatest work when in his sixties;
Albert Schweitzer, at 82, still carries
on his many remarkable activities;
British Prime Minister Gladstone
was 84 when he resigned office after
his last term; Churchill was 66 when
he became Prime Minister, to lead
the British Commonwealth through
World War 11, and at 83 is still


Missing Friend
JANE DORAN.—WouId JANE DORAN,
who formerly resided at Coronation
Avenue, Mosman, or anyone knowing
her present whereabouts, please com-
municate with THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne ?
-TS-V
s/W' *
‘ lkln g th
e pfct u
fun
=
7/
me#
3*
KODAK PHOTO-HOBBY OUTFIT
All you need for film processing—a complete outfit that
introduces a lifelong interest, maybe a career. Includes a
developing tank and all aids necessary for successful
developino and printing Modern instruction card. £5/10/
BROWNIE Flash II Camera
Designed for simple, sure-
fire picture making both day
and night. Quality Kodet
lens, 2 big viewfinders. All-
metal body. 43/9.
KODAK Photo-Print Outfit
Make your own prints. Con-
tains everything necessary to
print photographs at home.
Price, 58/6.
&
109
KODAK COLOUR PRINTS
Made from your favourite
transparencies. Each print,
3f" x 5", conveys all the
beauty of the original. 8/6 ea.
Leather Carrying Cases
Protect your camera from
dust, moisture and shocks.
Quality grained leather.
From 10/7.
KODASLIDE 400 FILE BOX
Holds 400 Kodachrome Slides
In 16 removable compart*
merits. In maroon plastic
with index in lid. 35/-.
KODAK DEALERS EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
writing his History of the English-
speaking Peoples; Billy Hughes was
still haranguing the House of Repre-
sentatives 'as an octogenarian;
German Chancellor Adenauer is 81;
Somerset Maugham, at 83, still
writes, Bertrand Russell, at 85, still
philosophises; great Australians in
various spheres like Walter
Murdoch, Norman Lindsay, Sir
John Latham are still doing creative
work. Many others, of today and of
the past, could be cited.
Brief Answers
H.J.F.H., R.A.McC., G. Elburg
and many others: Thanks aplenty
for all the various versions of the
poems about the bricks and the
boarding-house... .Ebb : There are
no reserved bookings at such
carnivals; merely a matter of getting
there early enough for the best seats.
. ...K.J.M.: Write Department ot
Social Services, Australia House, 52
Carrington Street, Sydney G.L.:
(1) Neville George Clevely Heath
was tried at the Old Bailey on Sept.
24-26, 1946, for the murder of
Margery Gardner on June 21, 1946.
(On the night of July 3-4 he also
murdered a Doreen Marshall.) He
was convicted, and hanged on Oct.
26, 1946. (2) John George Haigh,
the English “acid - bath”
murderer, was tried for the
murder of Mrs. Durand-
Deacon (July 19-20, 1949). He was
found guilty, and was hanged on
August 10, 1949. (3) The Man on
Your Conscience, by Michael
Eddowes (1955), makes a very con-
vincing case that the Notting Hill
tEng.) mass-murderer John Reginald
Hailiday Christie (hanged in July,
1953, for the murder of his wife) had
in fact also murdered in 1949 Beryl
Evans and her 14-month-old
daughter, for which Timothy Evans,
an illiterate truck-driver and husband
of Beryl Evans, had been hanged
(March, 1950). However, though
Christie confessed in June, 1953, to
the strangling of Beryl Evans (but
denied to the end the murder of the
baby), the Scott Henderson inquiry
of July, 1953, maintained that Evans
had in fact murdered his daughter
(the crime with which he had been
charged) and that there had been no
miscarriage of justice... .S.E.: (1)
Write Territories Department, Com-
monwealth Buildings, Circular Quay
West, Sydney. (2) Write Department
of Primary Industry, Kembla Build-
ing, Margaret Street, Sydney
G.E.R.: Write Baptist Union of
N.S.W., 619 George Street, Sydney.
P.P., W.E.C. and others:
Thanks for information on the old-
time illusionist Maskelyne, which
largely coincides with what is con-
tained in the already-selected items
printed on this page this week....
L.K.: Nancy Keesing’s poem “To
a Friend in France” is included in
her Three Men and Sydney (pub-
lished by Angus and Robertson in
1955). Copy can be seen at Sydney
Municipal Library T.S.Y. :
Formosa was colonised in 1624 by
the Dutch, who were expelled by the
Chinese in 1661. In 1874 the
Japanese invaded the island, which
was ceded to them in 1895. It was
returned to China in 1945. It has
been the seat of the Nationalist
Chinese Government since 1949....
C.G.B. :* Ifni, which has been in the
news recently after Moroccan
guerrillas attacked it, is a small
Spanish enclave (741 square-miles)
on the coast of Morocco, ceded by
Morocco to Spain in 1860 but not
occupied by the Spanish till 1934.
Its capital is Sidi Ifni G.T.:
Some heights are as follows:
Everest, 29,141 ft.; Fujiyama,
12,394 ft.; Ararat, 16,946 ft.; Mont
Bianc, 15,781 ft.; Matterhorn,
14,775 ft.; Mauna Loa (Hawaii),
13,784 ft.; Annapurna (Himalayas),
26,502 ft F.J.C.: The Edict of
Nantes was enacted by King Henry
IV of France in 1598 to give tolera-
tion and a number of cities of
refuge to the Huguenots. It was
revoked by Louis XIV in 1685.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
K.L.: On the right > track....
M.T.T.: Not enough local color.
K.R.: Your arrangement of
words can only be described as
chaotic P.T.: Stutters along like
a pneumatic -dr i 11 M.G.N.:
“Alas! And I for morn doth
yearn!” That sort of prose won’t
get you into print S.S.: The
plot’s there, but your treatment!
. ...J.O’L.: Liked the Barrier Reef
touches, but you seem to lose the
thread of your story... .8.K.: “The
satellite, charred, twisted, broken”
hurtled into the basket M.M.P.JJ
A desert of dullness J.O.J]
“Goldrush” rushed 0ut....M.8.8.JU
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are .paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.}
Rhymes too obvious; read Gerard
Manley Hopkins C.D.: Just a
trifle... .8.L.: Try again in a
decade or so....R.S.:’Awful.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 18 78.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman) F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
AS the door closed behind
Mrs. Howe the boy Davey
dropped his bricks, stood up,
and tugged at his mother’s
skirts.
“Isn’t it ready yet, Mum?”
“As soon as Dad gets in,
Davey. He’s on the way now.
Just another minute and we’ll
have it. Keep Joe quiet, there’s
a good boy.”
Satisfied that all was well
with the dinner, she left the
room. Davey wandered back
to the baby and stood sulkily
watching him heaping up the
wooden bricks.
When, a few minutes later,
she came back, the boy hadn’t
moved. His inquisitive little
eyes took in everything; she’d
changed into a bright frock,
combed her hair, and touched
up her face.
“You going out, Mum?”
“No, Davey.” Stepping
cautiously among the bricks,
she laid an investigating hand
on the seat of Joe’s rompers.
“I’m just making myself look
nice for Dad. It’s like a birth-
day tonight.”
“Whose birthday, Mum?”
“Nobody’s, son, I said: like
a birthday.”
“Why, Mum?”
“Because we’ve got a lot of
money. We’re going to buy a
nice big house.”
“Where, Mum?”
“I don’t know yet. In some
nice place. You’ll be going
to a new school.”
“You told me that before.”
“Yes, but it’ll be a different
one now.”
“Where, Mum?”
“Near where we go to live.”
“Where’s that?”
She was very patient. The
table was already set, and she
seated herself near the stove
with the boy at her knees. Joe
still played on in the absorption
of infancy with a new and
novel toy. All kinds of noises
came in from the street only a
few feet away, backed by the
ceaseless rumble of the peak-
hour traffic along Punt Road.
In the little room there was
only the peaceful murmur of
two voices, and an occasional
clatter as Joe’s bricks tumbled
down.
t
/
TTE came in at a quarter to
six.
It was one of those houses
opening directly on to the
street, with a picket side-gate
attached, every closing thump
of which could be heard from
one end to the other. Her
smile grew into one of childish
excitement as she followed his
footfalls along the narrow
alleyway just at the other side
of the wall, and caught the
second familiar bump as he
placed his bicycle against the
back weatherboards. Joe had
dropped his bricks and set off
in a headlong stagger across the
floor.
“Careful, Frank! ” she called
out. “Joe’s there”
He opened the door slowly,
just enough to get his head in
and see where the baby was,
and a moment later all four of
them were in a hilarious mix-
up on the threshhold, both
children in his arms, she
nuzzling into his chest and
reaching behind to take away
the ugly - bale-hook twisted
under his belt.
She got it out and left him
for a moment to place it in
safety on the end of the mantel-
piece. “That hook one of
these days—oh, Frank, it is
true, isn’t it! I still can’t
believe it”
He was very tall, and had
to stoop to kiss her even
though she was on her toes.
“Spare me days, it’s nothing
to cry about! ”
“I can’t help it. It’s been
like a week since I got the
telegram. Davey! Wait —•
we’re going to have it now.”
“He’s all right.” He was
trying to disengage himself
while her arms were still tight
around him. She caught him
looking over her head at the
clock, and suddenly sensed
something that didn’t quite fit
in with her own complete
happiness^
“You don’t look like a m a n
that’s just won Tatt.’s,” she
said, still laughing.
“It was a hard day, Liz. We
had to work on just the same.”
He set Joe on his bottom
on the floor, and playfully
pushed Davey away.
“Let me get my boots off,
son.”
Her smile became a little
doubtful as she watched him
take off his coat, hang it behind
the door, and sit down to
unlace his boots.
“I went out and got a duck,”
she said. “The electric-light
money was still there”
“Good on you, mate; I can
smell it.” He lifted his head
to sniff but
dropped it again rather too
quickly.
“You look worn-out, Frank.
Would you like a cup of tea
first?”
“Good idea.”
“Frank”
“Make a cup of tea, Liz.”
He with a firmness
that startled her, his head still
down as he pulled on a shoe
with one hand and fended Joe
off with the other. “I’ve got
something to tell you Before
we get stuck into that duck.”
“What’s the matter with your
slippers?” she asked. “Are
you going out again?”
“I might have to. Make the
tea, there’s a good girl.”
“Mum”- —
“Davey, if you don’t keep
quiet for a minute”
The atmosphere was quite
changed now. No longer
smiling, she brewed a pot of
tea, picked Joe up, and sat down
sideways at the table. “Get the
biscuit-tin, Davey . . .”
She remained silent while he
rolled a cigarette. Then:
“Frank, you’re frightening
me. What’s wrong? Didn’t
you win it?”
T}OR the first time since
coming in he looked
straight at her. He had the
pained, pitying smile of a man
trying to temper bad news.
“I’m not sure, Liz.”
“I got a telegram.”
“Yes, I sent it. But some-
thing’s happened since.”
“It was a mistake!”
“In a way, yes.”
He spoke softly and reluc-
tantly each time, trying to ease
the blows. He saw her jaw
tighten to stop the sudden
trembling of her lips.
“You’d better tell me,
Frank.”
He had pulled Davey on to
his knees, and the boy, sensing
a crisis, sat there watching his
mother, an untouched biscuit
clutched in his fingers.
“You remember the shift I
lost on the Norwegian ship last
week?”
‘‘When you went after that
house, yes.”
“I got Arthur Glenn to work
it, on my docket.”
“In your name, yes.”
“You remember me telling
you afterwards there’d been a
near-accident in the hold?”
“I remember you saying
something at the time about an
officer”
“The second - mate got
trapped in some dunnage as
they were dragging a big case
put from the wing.”
“Yes, you told me.”
“He could have been badly
hurt if the gang hadn’t acted
quickly. And Arthur Glenn
was the first to yell out”
“Yes”
“Don’t hurry me —that bit’s
important. Did I tell you what
one of our blokes said to the
officer afterwards?”
“I don’t think so.”
“He said: ‘You ought to take
a ticket in Tatt.’s, mate.’ ”
“You didn’t tell me that.”
“Well, he did. I got all this
from Dally Spencer next day
when I was back on the job.
He said it, all right. And the
bloke did take out a ticket.”
“Frank—it was him that
won it!”
“No. It was the gang’s ticket.
He gave it to Dally for the
gang.”
Frank, stirring his tea con-
tinuously for the past minute,
had not taken his eyes off her.
“That’s what you said in the
telegram: Happy Gang”
“Liz, girl, don’t you see! I
shouldn’t be in on this. Arthur
Glenn was in the gang that
day.”
He smothered a curse and
picked up his cup as he saw
her face go white.
“Oh, Frank!”
“That lost shift could cost
me hundreds of pounds.”
Silence ~ fell between them.
Both children were getting
troublesome. Davey, sternly
admonished, retreated to the
other side of the table, a
frightened little face just show-
ing above the white cloth, dart-
ing puzzled glances first at his
father, then at his mother. Joe
had to be cuddled. Over fiis
wispy hair Liz stared horror-.
stricken at her husband.
“Could cost you hundreds of
pounds,” she repeated, her
expression hardening. “What do
you mean —did you win it, or
didn’t you?”
“The Happy Gang won it.”
“Well, you’re in the Happy
Gang, aren’t you? You’ve
always paid in for the tickets;
two a week ever since” ——
“This one wasn’t bought by
the gang. It was bought for the


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
gang, when I wasn’t in it.”
“Who told you all this?”
“Dally Spencer. Dally
always handles them. He told
us at lunch-time the next day
that we had an extra runner.
The second-mate had just
pulled him up as he was coming
down the gangway.”
“Dally wouldn’t put anything
over you, would he?”
“No, you can forget that.”
TT was a strange dialogue.
She, studying him with a
fearful eagerness, full of suspi-
cion, ready to pounce on any-
thing that would save them.
He, deliberately keeping his
face averted, and giving the
answers in the stubborn dejected
way of one who has already
covered every inch of hateful
ground.
“Are you telling me,” she
asked fiercely, “that we’ve got
to give all this money to Arthur
Glenn?”
“If I know anything about
Arthur Glenn he won’t take it
all. He’ll cut me in. But I’ve
got to tell him.”
“The ticket was given to the
gang! ” she wailed.
“It was given to the six men
Working below for that shift.”
“It was made out to the
Happy Gang Syndicate, like all
the others. You said so.”
She began to cry, noiselessly,
thinking of the baby, holding
him up over her shoulder so
that he wouldn’t see her face,
and patting him ceaselessly on
the back the way mothers do.
“Frank, you can’t give it up,
you can’t!”
“What d’you want me to
do?” he demanded.
“Nothing. You don’t have
to do anything. Arthur Glenn
can’t claim it. Your name’s on
the time-sheet. He wasn't
supposed to be there.”
“I asked him to work the
shift for me.”
“And you paid him for it.
What more does he want?
Does anybody else know
about all this besides Dally?”
“Nobody. Nobody seemed
to think of the extra ticket.
They were all too excited.
We’ve been taking tickets for
so long”
“What did Dally say? Does
he think” she broke off,
biting her lip.
“Go on,” said Frank bitterly,
“finish it! Does he think we
ought to tell Arthur? Now tell
me we’d be doing the right
thing! Hell, have I been
through it this afternoon!”
He stood up, took a couple
c f turns across the floor, then
sa t down again as Davey crept
back to t h e idle chair,
“Liz,’ he said, stroking the
b , 5 h ’ ead « we ’ve got to settle
n ourse f ves . Dally
, t have a bar of it . H e
didn>t wake to it himse lf till
j us t after lunch, when he took
J another look at the ticket . A nd
be tbrew w hole thing right
imo la H e’s a funny
blok Dally . He told me he
was ■ to keep it unde r his
hat at first> because he knows
how we’re placed. But he
knows Arthur’s battling too,
and it worried him too much.
He said he couldn’t carry it.
I’d have to make up my own
mind. He knows Arthur lives
just around in Coppin Street.”
“Is that why you put your
shoes on?”
“Yes.”
“Then you had your mind
made up when you came in?”
“Pretty well. I can bet on
Arthur doing the right thing
and whacking it up with me.
But when I opened that door
and saw your face”
“You still want to do it,
though, don’t you?”
“Liz”
“And I won’t let you!”
She wasn’t crying now. She
was thoroughly angry, leaning
towards him with the baby still
held to her shoulder, and gesti-
culating with her free hand.
Davey ran to her, whimpering,
and staring across at his father
with frightened eyes.
“Hold on, Liz, you’re scaring
the kids. We’ve got to talk this
over”-
“Talk it over! You want to
give it away. You said so.”
“We’ll get half of it. I know
Arthur Glenn”
“You never know anybody
once money creeps in.”
TLTE seized on this eagerly.
“By cripes, you’ve said it!
How d’you think I’ve been all
the afternoon? I never pinched
a cracker in my life. Now,
when it’s a- question of really
big money”
“You talk as if we’d be steal-
ing it.”
“You might have another
name for it. And I’m not
blaming you, in a way. It
looked all right to me, too,
when Dally first told me. You
can persuade yourself any-
thing’s right if you try hard
enough. Only for a time,
though—the little nigger keeps
creeping in”
“You can’t afford to be as
fussy as that in this world.
We’ve got to live. We’ve got
these kids to think of. Some-
body’s got to look out for
them. We’re under notice to
quit.”
“D’you think I’m forgetting
that?”
“What if Arthur Glenn keeps
the lot? He could, once you
told him, couldn’t he?”
“The waterfront wouldn’t be
big enough to hold him. He’d
stink once it got around.”
“Would Dally Spencer ever
tell?”
“No, but he’d hate the guts
of me. And what d'you think
my feelings would be when-
ever I ran across Arthur
Glenn?”
“You’re thinking of every-
thing except me and the
children. My God, it’d be
worth your while” She
stopped, with a sudden
frightened glance.
“To what?” he demanded
quietly.
She dropped her head,
fumbling guiltily with the
baby’s fat legs.
“It’d be worth my while to
leave the waterfront,” he said
in the same gentle tone.
“That’s what you were going
to say, wasn’t it? See where
we get?”
. A long silence fell, while he
watched her lowered eyelids.
Reaching out a big hand and
laying it on her knees to keep
her steadied, he said: “Liz, I
don’t blame you. I suppose in
the long run it’s a good thing
that a woman will fight for the
home, and to hell with every-
thing else. But it’s a man’s
world I’ve got to live in, not a
woman’s. I’ve got to go out in
it. I’ve got to go down to the
compound in the morning.
Dally will be waiting for me.
What am Ito tell him? He’s
a nice bloke. He thinks I’m a
nice bloke. What d’you want
me to tell him?”
He waited, but she neither
spoke nor looked at him.
“You do see, don’t you, Liz?
Say I do run away from it —I’ve
got to live with myself, haven’t
I? And you?”
He shook her.
“Spare me days, girl, I’d see
it sitting on the bed-rail for the
rest of my life! ”
With a weary little smile she
lifted her head at last.
“Do what you think best,
Frank.”
“You do see, don’t you?”
“Yes. Go and tell him. Go
and tell him, quickly. And
don’t be long. I’ve got to give
the kids theirs.”


The Waingongoro, the Man-
gatoki, the Kapuni, the Kau-
pokonui, the Tangatara, the
Waiau—of all the seven rivers
along that road between the
mountain and the sea I think I
loved best, after the Wai-
ngongoro, the tiny Manga-
hume. It was so clear, so
gentle, a little stream, hardly
more than eight - feet wide
between its grassy banks,
shortest of all in its journey
from the snow to the beach at
Pihama, so manageable to
explore and to fish and so very,
very plentiful with trout.
They were, it is true, exceed-
ingly small fish, nearly all
about d pound, with an
occasional two-pounder for a
rare prize in the bigger pools
downstream. And they were,
it is true, exceedingly hungry
fish —they bit all the time, and
at anything. It was rather
cheating to catch them; it was
not quite honorable to fish the
stream at all, since it was so
easy.
But then, fishing is a gentle
art; and when we had proved
our hardihood sufficiently in
the gorges of the Kapuni or
the more strenuous waters of
the Tangatara and the Waiau
it was extraordinarily pleasant
to fish this happy little stream
where the sun —so far as I re-
member—always shone, where
the bulls were harmless as
heifers, where the water was
always warm —and you never
needed to - wade more than
knee-deep anyhow—and where
the fish were so very, very
plentiful. For it is also pleasant
occasionally, when fishing, to
catch fish; and in the Manga-
hume there must have been a
fish for every pebble. In the
lamplight frpm the bridge,
where sometimes we fished for
them with moths, they swarmed
like a shoal of herring ; and
that best of all days, when I
drove out alone from Eltham
after hastening the “Argus” to
bed at three in the afternoon,
I came home with ten trout —
ten, no less —bulging in my
canvas fishing-bag. They were
small, to be sure; and taken
on the wicked minnow; but
nevertheless, ten trout . . .
charging rhinoceros, but
neither of these alternatives was
available to us in Port Augusta,
so we had to make-do with
“Donkey” Martin’s team.
They filled the bill quite
satisfactorily. I speak from
experience, because, when I
won the title by hugging the
dust until the leading donk.
was only 3yds. off, swooping
towards me at fully four miles
an hour, the adulation of my
cronies nearly turned my
head.
* Then my pal George Leech
reduced the margin to 2yds.,
and took the title from me. He
confessed to me afterwards that
he had been practising spring-
ing smartly to his feet and this
quick getaway had enabled
him to risk that extra yard.
This set me thinking. I
decided to eliminate the get-
ting-up altogether. Instead, I’d
just roll out of the way at the
last second. I practised on the
sly, and then announced I
was going to have a shot at the
record.
At lunchtime that day I got
my chance. No Olympic cham-
pion ever felt more conscious
of the magnitude of the
moment than I did when I lay
myself down in the dust to
await the ordeal. The team was
100yds. away, and already we
could hear “Donkey” shouting
abuse at us —and at me in parti-
cular. It takes a donkey- team
hauling a heavy load quite a
while to travel 100yds.—just
how long no one really knows
until he has lain down in the
dust watching it approach
him.
I lay there hot and dusty and
cold-sweaty. At last the leaders
drew near. Four-yards off —
three^—two ... I’d equalled the
record! Another yard, and
just as I imagined the hoofs
we’re crashing down on me I
went into my roll and slithered
clear. Almost. Then, ow! The
hoofs didn’t touch me, but
something did . . . “Donkey”
had played a mean trick.
Either he had left one donkey
out of his team that morning,
or he’d spliced another 6ft.
on the end of his whip.
TT was from that same road
A outside the schoolground
that the first aerial crossing of
Australia began. George Leech
was connected with that, too.
Very much so. In fact, it was
he who began it. Or was it my
Aunt Clair?
In these days of jet-planes
and guided-missiles youngsters
would probably scorn the
parachutes we played with in
Port Augusta. The design was
simple. You took a square of
silk and tied a couple of feet
of strong thread to each
corner. Then you knotted the
four ends of thread together
and tied them to a large cork.
Your parachute was then ready
for launching, which was done
by wrapping it around a stone
and throwing it into the air.
If you had packed your
parachute properly the whole
lot unwound, the stone dropped
to earth, and the parachute
floated gently along, the cork
dangling below it. How far it
went depended on the lightness
of the silk, your judgment in
providing the right-sized cork
to balance it, and a factor
only dimly comprehended at
the time the incidence of
ascending and descending
currents of air.
I had several parachutes, but
the one on which I stake my
reputation was made from my
Aunt Clair’s green motor-veil.
How I came by the veil I
don’t remember. Perhaps my
aunt bought a new one. It
must have been something like
that, because in 1910 no
woman with any self-respect
would dream of being without
a motor-veil. Not that the
opportunity to use one arose
very often, especially in Port
Augusta, as there couldn’t
have been" more than two or
three cars in the whole district.
I must assume, therefore, that
my Aunt Clair either bought
or was given a new veil Her
old one thus became mine. And
that green silk was the softest,
lightest material that ever
went into a parachute.
I well remember the day,
towards the end of 1910, when
I last saw it. It was a fine, mild
day, with ever so slight a
breeze. Perfect parachute
weather. With several cronies
I had spent the lunch-hour in
the road outside the school,
parachuting.
A few minutes before school
was due to begin again George
Leech asked me for a throw.
With some misgivings, as
time was short and George was
one of those chaps who can
throw a tennis-ball straight up
almost out of sight, I handed
over the ’chute. A few
moments later it was opening
out 100 ft. above our heads.
Geofge deftly caught the stone
as it fell to earth. The para-
chute floated gently along
above us, and we moved off,
keeping pace with it.
At the Town Hall it began to
gain height—and I began to
worry. In the distance we
heard the school - bell ringing.
Most of those without a direct
interest in Aunt Clair’s motor-
veil gave up the chase, but
George and I and a few of the
others kept on. It was no use.
We didn’t need to go right
to the wharf. We could see
plainly enough that nothing
short of a cloudburst could
bring it down this side of the
Gulf. And there wasn’t a
cloud in the sky.
We turned and tore back to
school in time to sneak on'the
end of the line as the pupils
marched in singing “The
Golden Vanitee” in strident
chorus while Bonster Surman
beat time on the side of the
galvanised-iron shed with a
drumstick, the sole reminder of
the fact that the school had
once possessed a drum-and-fife
band.
It was a long time before 1
gave up hope of seeing Aunt
Clair’s motor-veil again. My
father was at that time up on
the Tarcoola goldfields, a
matter of 250 miles away. It
seemed to me not impossible
that my parachute might make
that distance. Then my
father came home and con-
firmed that the "chute hadn’t
landed at Tarcoola. Nor had
he seen it on his journey down.
He said it was therefore obvious
that it must have gone further
north.
A neighbor of ours, Sid
Pike —he was George’s uncle —
was an enginedriver, and I
took my problem to him. He
promised to make inquiries,
and in due course he told me
the parachute hadn’t been
reported at Quorn, or Hawker,
or Blinman, or Marree—or even
at Oodnadatta. That’s as far as
the railway went in those
days.
At first I was sorry it hadn’t
turned up at Oodnadatta. I’d
have liked to own a parachute
that flew all the way from Port
Augusta to the railhead. But
gradually I realised that my
’chute had been destined for
bigger things than that. If it
could fly to Oodnadatta there
was no reason why if shouldn’t
go further still. In fact, it
obviously had gone further still.
It was never reported at Alice
Springs. Tennant Creek gave
no word of it. At the Katherine
not a soul saw it go by it
must have been travelling too
high by then. Pine Creek has
no record of seeing it —or any-
thing like it, and Jessie Litch-
field was prepared to swear that
it didn’t land in Darwin.
What other conclusion is
possible than that Aunt Clair’s
motor-veil made the first
aerial crossing of Australia
from south to north? What
happened to it after that must
be pure conjecture.
And with that, my fellow-
Port Augustans, my case rests.


sees this service-unit as a huge
kind of jugular vein, or a
spinal column, perhaps.”
We walked past the unit out
on to the bridge that connects
the gallery with the office build-
ing at the third floor, and he
continued talking: “Mr.
Wright’s exceptionally pleased
with the way the building is
developing. He was a little
surprised at the dimensions
here. He said, ‘I didn’t think
we had as much space as this.’
I find him a very easy man to
get along with. He’s very ready
to listen to suggestions I’ve
made on the job here.”
The offices are so disposed
that each will have a terrace ;
each will be approached by a
short walk from the elevators ;
and in each instance this walk
will be separated from the
services-tower by an opening
looking down over a balcony
right to the ground-floor,
inside the building. Already
the offices proclaim themselves
most pleasant places in which
to work.
On the ground-floor there is
one additional feature, a so-
called “rectilinear gallery”
25ft. in height; I suppose for
the display of paintings too
large to be accommodated on
the spiral, though this is large
enough for most. This addi-
tional gallery is rectilinear only
as to its outer walls ; on the
inner side the curving wall of
the spiral determines its shape ;
and on the spiral, on the
second level, a beautifully pro-
portioned arch opens on this
high gallery, so that paintings
displayed there may be viewed
from ground-level, and from
halfway to the ceiling. The
arch also achieves a kind of
unity between the main and
the rectilinear galleries. It was
finished as. I saw it; like most
of the building the finish will
consist of the concrete itself,
unadorned except for paint,
In this rectilinear gallery, too,
the paintings will be displayed
vertically ; elsewhere they lean
away at the top, at about the
same angle as an easel leans
away from the artist. Mr.
Wright says he planned it that
way, so that paintings will be
in a natural right-angled rela-
tion to the spectator’s line of
vision. i
“What we tried to do here,”
he said in a recent interview
with the “New York Times,”
“was to create an atmosphere
suitable to the paintings. Each
one would exist in the whole
space, the whole atmosphere,
not within its rectilinear frame
in a rectilinear room. The
whole atmosphere and spacious-
ness will be the frame. And
once he stops having to think
in terms of rectangles, the
painter will be free to paint on
any shape he chooses —even to
curve his canvas if he wants.
Here, for the first time, you
will see twentieth-century arts
and architecture in their true
relation.”
The 20th-century arts of the
Solomon R. Guggenheim
Foundation collection, or such
as are at the moment on
display, are housed in a beau-
tiful 19th-century house on
72nd Street, about 30yds. off
Fifth Avenue. I had seen them
before, but I went back with
some idea of trying to visualise
representative elements of the
collection as they will look in
next year’s setting. They are
all abstracts; there is not here
the variety to be found, for
example, in the Museum of
Modern Art, 20 blocks down
in the heart of New York, on
53rd, between Fifth and Sixth
Avenues.
The Museum has an immense
variety; and nearly every
piece has some aspect which
commends it even to someone
like myself, whose conception
of art, and the functions of
art, differs radically from that
of most of the modernists.
Sidney Nolan’s “After Glen-
rowan” has at least a balance
and a purity of color which
makes an Australian almost
proud of his country’s only
contribution, no matter how
tired he might be of the Kelly
legend ; Dali has two that have
been on display there for the
best part of a couple of decades,
and are exquisite in their
simplicity—one is a completely
representational portrait,
though from an unconventional
angle. There is a great
luminous Tchelitchew, which
seems to have provided at least
some of the inspiration for the
recently touted Matta, and of
which the presentation dates
from the same period as the
Dalis. And some Brancusi
statues (as well as Epsteins),
of which the simplified form is
exceptional in its purity.
The Guggenheim has Bran-
cusis, too ; but the best of them,
“Flying Turtle” —a shovel-blade
in granite falls far below
those in the Modern Art collec-
tion. It has other things—an
Alberto Burri composition
called “Wood and White,” con-
sisting solely of slabs of
weathered and half-burnt
veneer from an old tea-chest
pasted to a white-painted back-
ground ; a composition by the
Parisian Georges Vantongerloo
in which, on a wide white back-
ground, one short green straight
line, one long purple straight
line, one red squiggle and one
blue squiggle pursue their un-
related courses. There are a
couple of Kandinskys far
removed from Kandinsky’s
more interesting Cubist efforts,
and there are some other Cubist
derivations, by Miro, Larionov,
Poliakoff. There is a Kyle
Morris “Blue and Black,”
which is about 30 square-feet
of just that, with some pink
and some white, all applied with
a two-inch brush, apparently
at random. The only piece in
which form is recognisable is
a Modigliani nude, of 1917
vintage.
“If you were to design a
building for representational
art, would it take the same
form as this one?” someone
asked Frank Lloyd Wright, and
he shook his 88-year-old head.
He replied that it was modern
< art that demanded modern
architecture. It is the one point
on which I do not agree with
him. A Rubens, I think, a
Velasquez, a Rembrandt, a
Van der Weyden, a Titian
could only look more m'agni-
ficent in his magnificent
gallery.
But perhaps the moderns will
fake new turns. To judge from
the outdoor display this year
j n Greenwich Village, only a
very small percentage of
painters in America, at least,
have limited themselves with the
rigid conventions introduced
in the earl y P art of thls century;
and there IS . stlll § reat excite-
ment of variety pouring from
representational, or semi-
representational, brushes
Perhaps more Than for decades,
And Wlth the s P ace , so ° n to be
at , lts command, the Guggen-
heJm Foundation may itself
enlarge its scope,
After all, there is plenty of
money in the kitty. The
Copper Baron left twenty-
millions of dollars to the
Foundation named for him ;
the building will take three of
these; there will be at least a
little for distribution amongst
tomorrow’s artists.


r*«*
books from GRAHAME'S -
best for CHRISTMAS!
A delightful range of local and imported
Greeting Cards.
Gift Books and Standard Authors for
adults and children in exciting profusion.
For the music lover—a choice selection of
L.P. Classical Records and music scores.
Ask or write for a copy of our illustrated
Gift Catalogue.
FOR A HAPPY CHRISTMAS GIVE BOOKS FROM
THE GRA!
Cnr. Martin Place & Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BW 2261.
have known.” In everything his advice
was “keep it big.”
Bean’s book is not only an essential
for historians. Compressed into only
226 pages it is a part of history which
should be read by every Australian with
pride in his country’s achievements.
And it is very readable.
Ek D.
A New Poet
It is a curious fact that the most
completely satisfying poem in Ran-
dolph Stow’s Act One (MacDonald) is
the elegant, sophisticated, amusing,
wholly artificial “The Language of
Flowers,” taken frohi or invented for
“A handbook for Victorian lovers”:
I sent my love clematis. She,
walking white
In her garden, reading Rossetti,
veiled her sight
Under blue eyelids, blushingly
comprehended
Her mental beauty was thereby
commended.
This flawless little pastoral comedy
is, very likely, Stow’s reward for
coming to poetry with a sophisticated
habit of mind; or as sophisticated as
a young poet can well manage.
To the loss of his Australian
significance—whatever compensations
there may be—Stow is attracted to
classic mythology. He is also, in the
age of Freud and Dylan Thomas,
determined, one feels, not to be caught
out; not to give himself away by
displaying personal emotion. So when
he writes about the cruelty of Nature
he invents a fable about a witch or a
shepherdess; when he writes of his
childhood he calls the poem “Child
Portraits, with Background”; when he
writes of lust it is “The Farmer’s Boy,
with Ladies” (an excellent pair of
poems, technically captivating in the
second part); and when he writes a
charming little love-lyric, rather like
some of Ray Mathew’s, it is “The
Conventional Young Man, at Spring-
time.”
In “The Language of Flowers” the
approach works perfectly. In some of
the other poems it is a disadvantage.
When he writes about dead lovers and
the roses talking above their graves he
is certainly not as moving as Judith
Wright has been on the same theme;
when he writes on “Night Sowing” he
has not the depth of a most beautiful
lyric by David Campbell with the same
title; and in both these instances it may
be that the wearing of a mask is
obstructing the true expression of his
own personality.
But the mask—the air of sophistica-
tion—has compensating advantages: it
is a discipline that saves him from
floundering in personal emotions as so
many young poets do; it keeps his
poems firmly under control technically
as well as emotionally; it provides some
most intriguing fables; and, fortunately,
with the sophistication more in the
titles than in the poems themselves, it
is a pretty thin disguise. The clear
voice of a young poet speaks through
it, and if “The Language of Flowers”
is more perfect in its marriage of style
and theme than “The Farmer’s Tale,”
“The Shepherdess’s Tale” or “A
Fancy for His Death ,’* these are very
nearly as satisfying and, in the personal
sensitivity that breaks through them,
infinitely more forceful.
This is the freshest book of the year
in Australian poetry: a new poet speak-
ing, and an authentic one. Essentially,
under the rewards and disadvantages of
its sophistication, it is a glimpse of a
new worlds sparkling with Westralian
sunlight; a fine achievement and the
promise of a finer.
Ruth Park Again
It seems clear from Ruth Park’s
One-a-pecker Two-a-pecker (Angus
and Robertson) that there was never
a dull moment in the Otago goldrushes
of 1863.
If Mother Jerusalem is not poking
people in the stomach with her
umbrella in the streets of Dunedin and
banging them on the head with her
reticule she is going purple in the face
and getting squashed by a cart. If
Billy Figg is not darting with anguish
about the prostrate form of the noble
lady who married him" in Ireland
because she was going to have some-
body else’s child and who, on first view-
ing the goldfields, has prudently gone
crazy, he is leaping at the mysterious
Shannadore “with the face of a
wounded beast,” in fact the “ghastly
face of one looking into hell,” and,
with a cry of “Renegade, adulterer,
Judas!” hitting him on the head with
some weapon unstated but deadly:
“ ‘He was all I had,’ he mourned, ‘aye,
and I love him yet.’ ”
~lf Tatty, that most surprising
Scottish immigrant girl, is not desper-
ately defending her honor in the beech-
forest from the amorous Guiseppe
Pigallo, then Currency Mac Queen, the
waif from Australia, is swooning in
the mountains with the ever-mysterious
Shannadore. If there is not a flood
rushing down the Shotover to drown
the diggers in their tents they are all
being frozen in the snow.
And if among the brawls, the
murders, the weddings, the funerals, the
childbirths, . the accidents—not for-
getting Billy Figg in the butting-contest
and the time he tried to throttle Uncle
Alick while the diggers looted the store
—if t-here appears to be a momentary
lull in the excitement it is an illusion,
for within half a minute you can be
quite sure that the Chinese will come
creeping up to the pub to cut-up
Chinese Gracie with a razor.
Miss ‘Park, naturally enough, is
rather excited herself about all this.
Her descriptive passages are lush and
crowded with mixed metaphors —
granted that the Shotover looks like a
streak of forked lightning and cries
aloud for rage and despair between
the cliffs like jaws of serpents and
swings from side to side like a runaway
horse, when has Miss Park ever seen
a runaway horse “clawing with foam-
ing fingers at the boulders”?—and her
characters are all similarly arbitrary,
larger-than-life, confused.
Even if Chinese Gracie rather
unkindly and quite unjustifiably calls
the Law family “a nasty Bible-banging
lot of hypocrites,” the dour Scottish
immigrants who founded Dunedin are
hardly to be recognised in this novel,
and it is almost equally difficult —■
though a few glimpses do exist—to
find a scene where the gold-seekers are
quietly seeking gold. It adds to the
confusion that, blithely ignoring the
problems of the method, Miss Park


It’s the Christie for Christmas !
4-50 FROM PADDINGTON
Agatha Christie
She watched a murder being committed through the window of a passing
train! Britain’s Queen of Crime has written another masterpiece of
ingenuity and suspense to baffle and beguile her many fans.
Ready
Now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
At all
Booksellers
if
he
enjoys
a
really
good
laugh
give
him
a
Weird
Mob
BY
NINO CULOTTA,
a
really
funny
novel
about
australians
❖
Some liken it to
C. J. Dennis, others
to Lennie Lower’s
Here’s Luck—many
say it's better than
both.
Illustrated by WEP
LIRE SMITH PUBLICATION
*X* / 6s.
all booksellers
tells the story in the first-person as,
simultaneously, an old Scottish lady
and the same old lady as a young girl
in the midst of it.
What remains? Richness, color,
excitement, a highly romantic tale and
a vivid picture of the little-known
Otago goldrushes.
New "Bony " Mystery
Arthur Upfield’s new Napoleon
Bonaparte mystery, Bony Buys a
Woman (Heinemann), is another
Centralian triumph—if anyone has
made the desert flower and yield riches
it is the ingenious Mr. Upfield.
This time the scene is a station on
the edge of Lake Eyre, dry, hard-
rimmed with salt. The station-house-
keeper has been murdered and her
little girl stolen; and it is obvious that
a drunken old roqseabout called Ole
Fren Yorky has done it. All there
seems for the half-caste detective Bona-
parte to do is find Yorky.
But this is a complicated matter.
The people with the key to Yorky’s
whereabouts are the neighboring tribe
of blacks. And Yorky is the father of
the station-cook Sarah’s daughter
Meena; and Meena is the bought wife
of the aged and blind black chief
Canute. This makes Yorky a “white-
feller-blackfeller,” and someone to be
protected.
In this book Upfield’s picture of his
detective bargaining with the old chief
shares the honors with his picture of a
walkabout into the centre of Lake Eyre
and his evocation of a blackfellow trail-
ing the detective disguised as a willy-
willy—i.e., running across a bare plain
in the centre of the whirling sand. As
he makes his stories out of the least
likely settings, so he still gets his most
enthralling moments, not from his
mystery, but from the sheer power of
his descriptions.
For Children
Stories about aborigines or their
legends are common enough amongst
Australian children’s-books, but Alex
Poignant’s Piccaninny Walkabout
(Angus and Robertson) is something
different.
The story is so simple that it hardly
exists. Nullagundi and Rikili are two
aboriginal children in Arnhem Land.
For breakfast they eat honey, yams,
roots and berries, kangaroo, emu and
goose.
That seems rather a large breakfast,
and, on glancing again at the story,
one finds it is not quite correct. That
is what their parents have gone hunting
for; and what their grandmother gives
them for breakfast is cycad-nuts, honey
and some meat.
An indifferent meal for a growing
girl and boy, but then they go to the
beach and eat shellfish and some of
“the tasty worms that live in the roots
of mangrove-trees.” Nullagundi gets
his father’s fish-spear and spears some
fish. They eat these. Then they climb
a tree, rob a wild bees’-nest and eat
that. Rikili gathers some nuts and
shellfish and presumably they eat those,
too. Then they catch a mangrove-crab.
They go off into the bush to meet
their parents, and there, unluckily fail-
ing to eat a wallaby, they catch a
goanna and eat that.
It might be supposed by this time
that the story is how Rikili and Nulla-
gundi died of a stomach-ache; but no,
they are merely lost, and after they have
sheltered for the night in their bark
mia-mia they are rescued by their loving
parents and hastily given a sustaining
breakfast of yams, honey, fish, nuts
and kangaroo-meat: “They ate until
they could eat no more.”
Norman Lindsay once told this
reviewer that he wrote “The Magic
Pudding” to prove that children like to
read about food rather than about
fairies, so perhaps this artless little
tale will have its appeal to the young.
Certainly it painlessly and even
pleasantly conveys a certain amount of
information about the aborigines; and
it has some additional interest in the
fact that an aboriginal virtually wrote
it —Poignant says he was making up
a story to go with his photographs
when Raiwalla, his Arnhem Land
interpreter, said he could tell him a
much better one; and told him this one,
which Miss Beulah Lowe, the school-
teacher at Millingimbi mission, trans-
lated.
But the strength of it, the reason for
the book’s existence, is the photographs,
which are superb. Nullagundi and
Rikili and their parents—and the crab
and the goanna and the wallaby, the
fish and the fish-spearing, the games on
the sand, the camp in the bush and the
rescue—are photographed to illustrate
every incident of the story so that the
effect is like looking at a documentary
film, or stills from a film.


m
&> m
mm
•• u
m
m
m
■
K
! '
m
a
m
m
m
if
ERG TYPE 2 EPH 21 2-volt Home Lighting Battery. Suitable for 12-V,
24-V / , 32-V; 56-V and JIO-V installations. Capacity : 225 ampere hours.
ERG ANNOUNCES A NEW
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
The transparent polystyrene con-
tainer enables you to SEE how
much acid there is in the battery.
Inbuilt floating gravity
balls indicate state of
charge of cells.
Double insulation (including
glass wool) prevents shed-
ding, ensuring longer life.
GUARANTEED FOR 3 YEARS
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd.
156 GOULBURN ST.. SYDNEY
DISTRIBUTED BY:
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. • - SYDNEY
Erg Batteries Pty. Ltd. - - BRISBANE
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty. Ltd. MELBOURNE
Waiter Sully & Co. Pty. Ltd.
David L. Prescott ■
Erg Distributors - • • « -
J. R: Roe & Company - - -
• • • • BROKEN HIU
ADELAIDE
LAUNCESTON
DARWIN
