

(u
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
19
The Bulletin
The Brisbane Exhibition
Wednesday, July 31, 1957
Price !/•
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
MacCLELLAN'S CASTLE,
PROUD REMNANT OF HISTORY
KIRKCUDBRIGHT, in Scotland, is a region
rich in historical and literary associations,
particularly with Wallace, Robert the Bruce, Queen
Mary, the Civil War, the Jacobites, Covenanters
and Paul Jones, “lather” of the American Navy.
It was there that Robert Burns, in 1793, during
the course of a ride across the moor at Lochen-
breck in a thunderstorm, conceived the famous war
song “Scots wha hae.”
Kirkcudbright, the capital of the Stewartry, at
one time occupied a prominent place in Scottish
history, and in medieval times was one of the
most important sea ports in Scotland. The origin
of its name is due to the celebrated Northumbrian
saint, and its name means the “Kirk of St.
Cuthbert.” Its royal castle, known as “Castledykes,”
was one of the largest medieval fortresses in
Scotland. The first recorded < governor was Sir
John Comyn, whose wife put the crown oh Robert
the Bruce at his forlorn coronation at Scone.
After the War of Independence, the castle was
dismantled and part of it provided building
material for MacClellan’s Castle, illustrated here.
The Castle, or House of MacClellans, is the
outstanding feature of Kirkcudbright. It was built
on the site of a Franciscan Friary in 1582 by
Sir Thomas MacClennan of Bombie, the father
of the first Lord Kirkcudbright, and his coat-of-
arms can still be seen above the entrance. This
strong and massive building in the Gothic style
survived the fortunes of war and the passage of
time, but, following the Civil Wars of Charles I,
in which the then Lord Kirkcudbright was an i
enthusiastic Covenanter, the estate fell into decay.
In the early 18th century the fortunes of that
once powerful family were so reduced that the
representative of the Lordship lived in a small
thatched house and kept an alehouse.
No. 360: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


Wanted bound copies of pre-war
PAPUAN VILLAGER
Reply stating price to:
Box 872 L G.P.0.,
BRISBANE
The Red Page
A GREAT AUSTRALIAN LIAR
I find on inquiry amongst the most
learned of my colleagues that nobody
seems to know anything at all about
John Farrell, whose “My Sundowner”
1 have mentioned once or twice on the
Red Page, so I thought perhaps I
should write a few choice words about
him: the more so because in a recent
review I went so far as to say I found
“My Sundowner” more amusing than
C. J. Dennis’s far-famed “The Senti-
mental Bloke.” The humor is harder,
more ironic, more firmly based in the
ruthless observation of character, never
cloying.
It is only by accident, so has his
name dropped out of use, that I know
anything about Farrell myself. I came
across him in “The Bulletin” files (an
immensely long narrative poem) and
again in the Mitchell Library five or
six years ago when Nancy Keesing and
I were trying to wade through all the
verse ever written in Australia in
search of material for our anthology of
bush ballads ... an immersion I now
shudder to think of. Out of all that
morass of poetry, good, bad,
indifferent and appalling, “My Sun-
downer” is the only substantial
piece of work that has stayed in my
mind as steadfastly asking to be
reprinted.
Not that it is great poetry; not that
it has the “universal” appeal of “The
Sentimental Bloke”; but it is funny—
and very Australian. Why, for
instance, were the prayers for rain
never answered at Murragumbalong,
“away out west”?:—
-—I couldn’t fell you what’s the
reason,
But from the first they never seemed
to care
For Murragumbalong in Heaven. . .
It is a long narrative poem,
obviously about a sundowner; and also
about a tree out at Murragumbalong
from the branches of which everyone
who saw it was mysteriously impelled
to hang himself—a very grim story to
put into a humorous poem, and all the
more macabre when you discover, from
some notes in “The Australian
Standard” of 1899 which Farrell is
supposed to have written himself, that
there was a basis of fact for it:—
The singular double suicide at
Derrawong discloses one of those
extraordinary cases of irresistible
BOOKHUNTJER, Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney,
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you- fiction
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
suggestion well known to observers
of abnormal mentality. A young
man found that his young wife had
hanged herself. After she had been
cut down, he, being alone for a
short while with the dead, hanged
himself from the same piece of raw-
hide.
About ten years ago there was
reported from the middle wastes of
pastoral Queensland a case present-
ing similar features . . . .The over-
seer of a station, riding one day
with one of the men upon the
remotest boundaries of the run,
found the skeleton of a man who
had evidently committed suicide a
year or so before, hanging from the
limb of a tree. The overseer rode
off to send word to the police-station
leaving the rouseabout in the vicinity
of the skeleton. When he returned
it was found that the rouseabout
had, after due consideration, con-
trived very laboriously to fashion
out of two or three straps and pieces
of cord a means of suspension and
had hanged himself beside the other
dead man.
It seems an odd sort of story to
imagine as a contribution to the gaiety
of the nation ; but a macabre humor
was one of the devices which many of
the writers of the ’Nineties adopted as
a means of making the outback
tolerable—you had to laugh at it or
go under—and the humor and fantasy
of the poem lift it a long way above
grim reality. In its drawling, long-
winded humor and leisurely movement,
cheerfully taking half-a-dozen pages to
introduce the characters and the setting
before the story begins, it is strongly
reminiscent of Joseph Furphy’s “Such
Is Life - ” ; and perhaps Farrell’s real
talent, had he developed it, would have
been revealed, like Furphy’s, in the
novel.
There is the sundowner strolling up
at dusk to the “super” to beg his
ration of damper and mutton and duff;
a pause for conversation with the super
while the sundowner tells how he has
just been offered a job at ten-bob a
week on a neighboring station but felt
his dignity insulted by anything less
than fifteen-bob; upon which the
super comments:—
If Toohey knew his sort as well as L
did
He must have been a trifle off his
head
To offer even ten.
Then to the men’s hut, “lit by a
slush-lamp from a smoky rafter,”
where the sundowner at once gets
going with the tail-stories which are
to culminate in the great lie of the
suicide-tree:—
I heard excessive bursts of mighty
laughter
And cries of “Go it, stranger! That’s
a cut
Above you, Billy! You’re a (bad
word) duffer
Beside this cove at pitchin’ of a
cuffer! ”
Then, still leisurely approaching the
real story, but getting closer to it,
there is the derelict’s proud account of
how he was made boss of Murragum-
balong:—
Well, twenty years ago I was with
Dawson
Of Murragumbalong away out west.
You’ve heard of him? No? Strange!
He made me boss on
The station. “Edward,” says he, “all
the rest
Are sodden fools! This place has
been a cross on
My back for years, and I’ll give
bossing best;
I'll make you manager and go you
whacks on
The profits.” Ah, he was a white-
skinned Saxon!
And so, at easy last, as if Farrell
himself had ambled across the plains to
it on a hot day, we come to the story of
how the sundowner (as boss of Murra-
gumbalong) rode the property with
his dimwitted rouseabout and, seeking
the shade of a lone gumtree, saw to
his horror
A man hung by a piece of cord which
tied him
To a low branch ;
and cut the suicide down and rode to
town for the trooper, leaving the
shaken rouseabout to rest under the
tree. And, when he came back with
the trooper:—
—What d’ye think? You think that
Abel lay there
Just as I left him? No, as sure as
fate—
As sure as I’m the son of my own
mother —-
He hung there stiff and stark beside
the other!
Half the art of this poem is in the
humor, the commentary on the bush
and its characters, warm and dry and
quiet as the outback itself ; the other
half is in stretching the bush lie as far
as it will go ; and, always convincingly
in its context of fantasy, it goes further
in “The Sundowner” than you would
believe possible.
Here again, of coursfe, there is an
affinity with Furphy, particularly “The
Buln-Buln and the Brolga,” as there
also is with “Banjo” Paterson, Lawson,
Lance Skuthorpe of the famous
“Champion Bullock-driver,” and all the
other writers of the ’Nineties who
expanded the bush lie—the campfire
yam—into their ballads and stories. I
don’t know any other Australian writer
('Continued on page 66)


V
**4
<3
grown
AND WITH IT HAS GROWN
ORGANISATION
to meet to-day’s needs of
the “Man-on-the-Land”
As our Nation has developed, Elders moved ahead with it. Since 1839
117 years ago—Elders have played a big part in the development of the
pastoral industry. To-day their name is a household word throughout
Australia.
170 Branches giving Nation-wide Service, covering Wool, Merchandise,
Shipping, Travel, Chartering, Insurance, Skin and Hides, Land and
Livestock, Rural Banking.
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED
Adelaide, Perth, Albany, Melbourne, Geelong, Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, London
with which are amalgamated
COMMONWEALTH WOOL & PRODUCE CO. LIMITED.... SYDNEY
NENCO LIMITED NEWCASTLE
MOREHEADS LIMITED BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 31, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4042
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521 • 'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Hew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
QUEENSLAND'S CHANCE
NEXT Saturday, for the first time in
nearly a quarter of a century, Queens-
land will have an election which,
despite rigged electorates and suspect
rolls, the Opposition parties have a
more than even chance of winning.
There has been only one non-Labor
Government in Queensland since 1915.
and it is only a little over twelve
months since the Gair Government was
returned with an increased majority,
winning 49 seats in a House of 75 and
seemingly set for another three years
of office.
The changed position is, of course,
due to the schism inside the Labor
party. Ostensibly the reason is the
refusal of Premier Gair and his
Cabinet to give immediate effect to the
instruction of the central executive of
the party to legislate for three weeks’
annual leave for all wage-earners. No
one really believes that to be the full
explanation. Nor would the Q.C.E.’s
disapproval (belatedly expressed) of
Gair’s Oil Bill and University Bill
provide sufficient reason for splitting
a party in two.
The truth is that the split was already
there. It had begun at the Hobart
conference in 1955, and it was just a
matter of time before the pro-Evatt
executive stood-up Gair and Walsh to
answer for their sins. Gair’s two
unpopular bills provided what seemed
a favorable opportunity for dumping
him; the “leave” issue (long kept on
ice) the most potent catch-cry to swing
the rank-and-file of the party against
him.
The size of the faction sticking to
Gair despite his expulsion —24, includ-
ing all but one of his Ministers—was
no doubt a disappointment to the
Q.C.E., but the time for compromise
was past, and the Duggan-led A.L.P.
voted with the Opposition to send Gair
to the country in an election in which
two Labor parties are fighting each
other more savagely than either is
fighting Labor’s traditional opponents.
Duggan, who was Gair’s Deputy
Premier until the break came, seems to
have been a victim of split-personality
for years past. At least, he is now find-
ing that almost everything he voted for
or spoke in support of while in Gair’s
Cabinet was really anathema to him.
Gair, it appears, was never a man to
be trusted; in fact, he was never really
a Labor man at all.
Not that Gair seems to entertain a
very high opinion of Duggan. He told
a meeting that “Mr. Duggan ran with
the hare and hunted with the dog and
had two-bob each way. So much so
that even Mr. Bukowski was reported
to have said he would be pleased if Mr.
Duggan fell off the fence.”
Both Gair and Duggan have warned
each other to beware of the ambitions
of their deputies. Duggan suggested
that Walsh would supplant Gair as
leader of the Q.L.P. Gair commented,
“If Mr. Duggan had been half as loyal
to me as his leader and half as loyal
to Cabinet and the Parliamentary
Labor party as Mr. Walsh has been,
there would be no crisis in the Labor
Movement today.” He urged Duggan
to “watch the little Doctor” —meaning
Dr. Dittmer. M.L.A. for Mt. Gravatt
and deputy-leader of the A.L.P.
At the time. Duggan and the Q.C.E.
were more concerned over the move-,
ments of the big Doctor. It had been
generally assumed that if the Federal
Opposition-leader arrived home before
polling-day his appearance on Duggan-
Bukowski platforms could be taken for
granted. But for some reason the
Q.C.E. seemed to develop doubts as to
the wisdom of invoking the aid of the
man whose political principles and
leadership they professed to admire.
Ten days ago Bukowski said the
executive had never considered asking
Dr. Evatt to go to Queensland. He
added. “We are running our own.cam-
paign here.”
As Calwell, Ward, Kennelly and a
host of other Federal Labor M.P.s—
some by invitation; some under orders
—have been talking their way from one
end of Queensland to the other, it is
hard to believe that Evatt’s participa-
tion was not even considered. Much
more likely is it that it was considered
and rejected with a shudder, the
executive’s attitude being that to have
the Doc. in the team would be worse
than taking the field half-a-dozen men
short.
Bukowski’s disavowal, however, did
not satisfy all A.L.P. supporters. The
Queensland Postal Workers demanded
that he be invited, and a Trades Hall
committee announced that he would be
asked to address a rank-and-file meet-
ing last Sunday. When it was reported
that the Doc.’s arrival home might be
later than had been anticipated, the
8.0.A.C. Britannia in which he was
travelling having been delayed in Cal-
cutta, one could almost hear the
Q.C.E. breathing a heartfelt “Good old
Britannia!” But the Doc. won
through and touched-down at Darwin
full of enthusiasm for the Duggan
cause and apparently determined to
throw his weight into the fight against
Gair and “clerical Fascism.”
He turned up in Brisbane on Sun-
day, in good voice and determined to
use it.
Queensland, alone among Aus-
tralian States, uses the first-past-the-
post system of voting. This is not
because of any strong feeling in Labor
circles that the system is the most
democratic. The State used preferential
voting for many years, but in 1942 a
reversion was made to the first-home
system. Opposition parties were less
united than they are today, and the
move was aimed at strengthening
further Labor’s already almost impreg-
nable position. On Saturday, however,
the system is likely to boomerang on
Labor, as both factions have put up
candidates for every seat at present held
by either and in many held by the
Opposition.
It seems certain that both Labor
parties will lose seats. Most of these
will be lost to the Liberal and Country
parties, but there’ll be some switching
in representation between the two
factions. Both sides in the family
squabble probably feel that the Nicklin-
Morris alliance will win the election
anyway, and that the real task is to see
that their own particular faction gets
the most Labor seats and thus becomes
the official Opposition. For this reason
some of the bitterest verbal exchanges
have been in the safest Labor seats.
In this private dogfight the chances
favor the A.L.P. In the Victorian
breakaway the official party retained
the loyalty of about two-thirds of
Labor voters, though in some
electorates the sitting A.-C.L. member
polled very well. The Q.L.P. is in a
better position than the A.-C.L. was;
it has more sitting members (25) and it
starts with the initial advantage of be-
ing the Government and of having all
but one of the old Cabinet in its line-up.
It should retain some of its seats, but
is unlikely to win any from the A.L.P.
The most likely result of Saturday’s
election is a C.P.-Liberal Govern-
ment, with Nicklin as Premier. After
25 years in Opposition it will be com-
pletely without administrative
experience, but it will at least bring
honesty and earnestness to the task.
And those are two qualities that have
seemed sadly lacking in recent Queens-
land Governments.


HUMPTY-DUMPTY (AND HIS FORMER PAL) SAT ON THE WALL TOO LONG


PLAIN ENGLISH
"O Yeah?" in Chinese
The most peculiar feature of the
summaries of Australian Labor politicians
returning from China is the anxiety which
they show to prove that China is not a
Communist country, but merely a matey
Socialist outfit in whose Government the
Communists have some part.
But surely neither Mr. Haylen nor Mr.
Monk would try to infer that Mao is
not a Communist, or that he was not put
into power by force of Russian arms ; or
that the Chinese Government is not part
of the Russian Communist bloc ?
And surely none of these statesmen
has gone to China without examining the
Chinese Constitution.
It is true that in a Chinese Assembly of
1226 which, like the Supreme Soviet in
Russia, is merely a registering-machine,
there are 150 representatives of what are
called “national minorities,” but they are
no more to do with the Government of
China - than Mr. Haylen has with the
Menzies Government. Except, of course,
that elections are conducted on the same
principle as in Russia, every candidate
being approved by the Communist junta
and receiving 99.73 per cent, or there-
abouts of the total vote. Every senior
member of the Ministry is a Communist.
The Constitution is a copy of Stalin’s
Constitution for Russia. Article I of
Stalin’s Constitution—the quotation is
from an official Russian version—reads:
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
is a Socialist State of workers and
peasants.
Article I of the Chinese Constitution
reads: —
The People’s Republic of China is a
people's democratic Stale led by the
working-class based on an alliance of the
workers and peasants.
Article by article the Chinese Constitu-
tion then adapts the Stalin Constitution to
Chinese conditions. There is so little
difference that the Chinese articles are
nearly always merely rough translations
of the Stalinist ones.
The enthusiasm with which Australian
Labor-party pilgrims fall into line with
Communist propagandists is something
to ponder over. Perhaps, while abroad,
they get a surreptitious brainwashing
when they have a haircut and shampoo.
Ten or a Dozen?
Sponsors of decimal coinage got off to
a flying-start in their current campaign
to persuade Sir Arthur Fadden to imple-
ment the recommendations of the Royal
Commission on Money and Banking,
which in 1937 was unanimously in favor
of it.
They met in Melbourne, where agita-
tion for the change seems keenest,
appointed three heavyweights in
economics or commerce—Sir Leslie
Melville, vice-chancellor of the Australian
National University, Canberra ; Professor
Sir Alexander Fitzgerald, a Melbourne
company-director and stalwart of the
University Commerce Department; and
Walter Scott, governing-director of
W. D. Scott and Co., management con-
sultants in Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa —and, studying also the
reputed needs of modern journalism,
coined the phrase, “100-to-l It’s Easier.”
Interest in the advantages of a decimal
system in Melbourne has been demon-
strated clearly enough this year by reso-
lution in favor of it by such diverse
bodies as the Liberals’ State Conference,
teachers, retailers, unions, Chambers of
Commerce and the Victorian Employers’
Federation.
Melville, Fitzgerald and Scott (Deci-
mal Currency Council, Box S33G, G.P.0.,
Victoria) propose to enlist the aid of 200
organisations before presenting their case
to the Federal Treasurer that it will save
time in shops and offices, make cash-
handling easier for everyone, simplify
international currency transactions,
reduce costs and reduce work in the
school curriculum.
Since the beginning of the 19th century,
70 countries have adopted a decimal
system, and, aside from Australia, only
Great Britain, South Africa and New
Zealand (which also has an expert com-
mittee investigating the system), of
important countries, still count in dozens.
Egg Flap
The old catchcry, “What’s that got to do
with the price of eggs?” took on a new
meaning in Sydney last week when the
Transport Workers’ Union declared a
ban on Woolworths’ chain-stdres because
they were selling eggs at 4s. lid. a dozen
instead of at the N.S.W. Egg Board price
of ss. 6d.
The union's story—as told by its
secretary, A. G. Platt —was that the price-
cutting would undermine small poultry-
farmers in N.S.W. and cause retrench-
ments (presumably among Egg Board
drivers).
The eggs came from Victoria, and the
union “believed they were of inferior
quality.” Mr. Platt did not indicate
whether this belief was based on oral or
nasal tests, or whether it was merely a
patriotic belief in the superiority of the
N.S.W. hen over her southern sister.
Woolworths’ story was that it wanted
‘ to give the public cheaper eggs ; the Egg
Board had refused deliveries unless a
written undertaking not to sell below
ss. 6d. was given ; the company had then
arranged to get eggs from Victoria ; the
eggs were fresh farm eggs.
The Egg Board's contribution to the
omelette was that the chain-stores’ price-
cut wasn’t fair to general grocers, all of
whom abide by the agreed price. Why
the board should concern itself with a
minimum price was not explained.
Mr. Graham, N.S.W. Minister for
Agriculture, is also a firm believer in the
N.S.W. egg. He says that many egg-
producers are being forced out of pro-
duction or are limiting their flocks. “We
would all like to have cheaper food, but
if it is at the expense of wrecking this
vital industry, no good purpose is served.”
His remarks seem to have singularly
little to do with Woolworths’ price of
eggs. The company offered to pay the
Egg Board the full wholesale price, so
there was no question of the poultry-
farmers losing anything through the price-
cut. They are losing through the board’s
refusal to deal with the company.
The Minister revealed an apparent dis-
like of inter-State free-trade when he
said “advantage was taken of Section 92
to send the eggs to this State.” Advan-
tage was taken! Does the man want to
re-erect Customs-barriers on the
boundaries of N. S. Wales? Or start a
Big-Endian versus Little-Endian war with
Victoria, each side using as ammunition
its own eggs exclusively ?
The public,, which can't see why it
should be a good thing for chain-stores
to cut tea-prices yet a bad thing to cut
egg-prices, ignored the union ban, the
Egg Boards moral stand and Mr.
Graham’s appeal to patriotism (or
parochialism) and flocked to buy the
cheaper eggs. By Monday the board was
considering whether it mightn't after all
be wise to bring down its own price a
little earlier than it had intended.
Fees, Please!
About 364 silvertongues, including their
wives, turned up in Melbourne from
other States and overseas for the tenth
legal convention of the Law Council of
Australia, and found it worth every penny
of the expense.
Highlight of the proceedings was an
address by Professor Willard H. Pedrick,
Professor of Law, Northwestern Uni-
versity, Chicago, who opened up with a
wonderful taxation field for costs.
Professor Pedrick, a witty fellow with a
nice sense of understatement, pointed out
that the profession in the U.S. was pros-
perous : real-estate changed hands more
frequently ; more death-dealing machines
on the roads provided more personal-
injury claims; probate benefits from a
larger population ; and even the rates
for crime and bankruptcy had increased.
That was very much the story in Aus-
tralia ; but the professor had a new idea
for cosy work—extension into taxation.
New business organisations are growing
and changing, accommodating themselves
to Governmental controls, to regulated
relations with labor unions and to a kind
of silent partnership with the Federal
Treasury: all of these “features of a
hopelessly ambiguous economic system
generate a tremendous demand for
skilled adjustment of conflicting interests,
normally in accordance with some
principle or rule —in short, lawyers’
work.”
With the rapid growth of taxation, the
profession in the U.S. realised it would
be too late to take over skilled taxation
work with students then undergoing
courses, and schools were established' for
lawyers already practising, while some
undertook to achieve special competence
and others joined the revenue service.
According to the professor, in tax-
counselling, planning adjustment of busi-
ness and property arrangements with an
eye to tax consequences, advising on tax


consequences of completed and prospec-
tive transactions, the lawyer, if familiar
with the tax system, enjoys a very sub-
stantial advantage, for the law of corpora-
tions, trusts, property, partnership and
insurance, among others, will frequently
be interwoven with the tax problem.
“It scarcely need be added that tax
questions are ultimately put to courts, the
lawyer’s happy-hunting-ground,” added
the professor blandly.
Defence Dilemma
[Front Canberra!
Can Minister for Supply Howard Beale
bring off a fair deal with New Zealand
which will keep Australia's aircraft and
munitions industries fully occupied?
That is the question exercising official
minds in Canberra following the
announcement that Mr. Beale will lead a
mission to N.Z. to have talks on “defence-
equipment matters,” as the mission was
officially described.
The decision to send Beale to Maori-
land came at the same time as full-time
Minister for Defence, Sir Philip Mcßride,
was reporting to Federal Cabinet on the
success (or otherwise) of his recent mis-
sion to the United States.
According to reports, Sir Philip
couldn’t talk the Americans into pro-
viding Australia with top-line jet-fighter
aircraft or heavy artillery, either of which
would have provided a background for
a continuing aircraft or munitions
industry in Australia.
Pending the arrival of the U.S.
technical mission to look-over Aus-
tralia's potential, the Government was
faced with -the depressing picture of
stagnating Australian defence industries.
Mr. Beale is now going to N.Z. to see
if it is possible to tie-up contracts there
for Australian-built aircraft and Aus-
tralian-built F.N. rifles and accompany-
ing equipment.
Success in the mission w'ould provide
a much-needed spread to production
activities at St. Mary’s (N.S.W.) and
Lithgow, as well as at the aircraft
factories.
Homes Record
[l rom Canberra!
War-service-homes financing is big
business in anybody’s language.
In the last financial year the W.S.H.
Division provided a record amount of
£30,170,898 to help 12,896 ex-Servicemen
become home-owners.
In that year 8091 new homes were built
for ex-Servicemen and 4805 existing
homes were acquired.
The Minister for National Develop-
ment, Senator Spooner, who revealed the
figures, also said that the number of war-
service homes under construction during
1956-57 increased very considerably on
the previous year, totalling 4108 at June
30, compared with a little over 2000 at
June 30, 1956.
The W.S.H. Division has now pro-
vided 152,587 homes for ex-Servicemen
since the inception of the scheme in 1917.
Fees for Artists
Members of the N. S. Wales National
Gallery Society have been holding a
symposium at the Gallery on what should
be done about art-competitions and
prizes. Something should certainly be
done about them, and here is a suggestion.
Why not pay the artists a fee for
exhibiting?
All over the country literally scores of
art-competitions are being conducted.
Almost every week some big business gets
the idea that it might as well spend a few
hundred pounds on art and get a free,
prolonged, nation-wide advertisement out
of it; or yet another suburban council
decides that it should prove that culture
has at last come to Lurkville by hanging-
up a lot of dud pictures and giving 50-
guineas to the best or worst of them.
Out of all this a few artists get a nice
windfall; and most of them get nothing.
Worse, they are considerably out of
pocket. They are lucky to be able to buy
any sort' of frame these days under a
fiver ; they have to pay for paint, paper
or canvas; to pay quite heavily for
freight. They have to contribute their
time and labor, and if they are going in
for some special field like the Blake Prize
for religious paintings they haven't even
the consoling chance of being able to sell
their entry privately later—the attics of
Australia must be just about crammed
with awesome paintings that nobody
wants.
The result is that, unless the prize-
money is very big, few reputable artists
bother to send in to these competitions;
and so the things on the walls get worse
and worse.
The payment of a small fee —say, five-
guineas—for every painting exhibited
would at once restore the dignity of the
artist and ensure at least that he
wasn’t out-of-pocket. Many more would
be willing to enter; a selection would
have to be made ; and standards every-
where would be raised. Some painters,
of course, would still miss out if only
selected entries were hung ; but at least
all would have the chance, as in other
lotteries, of the consoling fiver.
Unheard-of? Too expensive? It is
no more than is invariably done when
poets are asked to contribute to an
anthology. They are paid a fee. And an
exhibition of paintings is really very
much the same thing as an anthology of
poems: an opportunity not to exploit the
artist, but to display and reward him.
Why Is Pearling Case
Delayed?
[l'rem “Anti-oyster”!
Several years ago legislation was intro-
duced and passed in Canberra purporting
to give the Government control over the
continental shelf. The admitted object
was to enable control over the Japanese
pearl-fishing fleets, which were operating
several miles offshore —well beyond the
three-mile territorial limit —and depleting
the beds to the detriment of Australian
pearlers. There was a lot of talk at the
time with the Japs, and it was finally
announced that the Nipponese Govern-
ment would challenge the legislation
in the International Court at The Hague.
After more talks, the Japanese agreed to
limit their fishers to an agreed quota, to
be policed by Australian observers, pend-
ing the decision of the court.
What has happened to the case? The
court has dealt with several matters
which arose long after this one. A good
many nations are interested in the general
subject, which may have relation not only
to fisheries of various kinds in different
parts of the world, but also to offshore
oil-deposits and other materials of great
commercial value. Are the Japanese, who
claim to be the aggrieved party, using the
case as a bargaining-point in the trade
talks which have been proceeding, or has
Australia managed to secure prolonged
delay in the hearing for purposes which
could be guessed but certainly haven't
been announced from Canberra.
The Japs have been operating off
Broome and Darwin, and have recently
indicated that the Broome beds are less
profitable than formerly, which could be
an alarming outlook with Australian
fisheries getting £7OO a ton for shell —*
and the Commonwealth getting the
equivalent, or mostly, in dollars. The
Japanese are keen and good pearlers, and
their big ships carry plenty of divers. It
would be useful to learn how the Aus-
tralian observers and naval vessels carry
out their jobs, and what chances, if any,
there are for Jap ships getting away
unobserved with hauls of shell.
Car-consciousness
[from ‘ Ceiling Street”!
How can one explain, on a charge of
driving under the influence, the con-
viction of a man who, according to
police evidence, walked up, turned round,
and walked down 14 stairs “fairly well” ;
found telephone-numbers in the directory
“quite well” ; wrote the alphabet forwards
and backwards in “a long time”; did
three addition sums and got one right and
beat two policemen at ' noughts-and-
crosses? Drunken men cannot do these
things.
So sensitive indeed are courts of
petty-sessions to any offences associated
with motor-cars that verdicts too
frequently appear extraordinary, and
penalties seem harsh.
In recent weeks three young men who
burgled a rich man’s house, taking a
considerable amount of personal property
and so disturbing the family’s sense of
security in their house that they had to
sell it and buy another, escaped with
bonds ; but a young Italian, who had a
clean and decent record, was actually sent
to jail because (at worst) he was looking
in motor-cars in the hope of finding some
beer, after the pubs had shut.
An aged offender, also alleged to have
looked too longingly in motor-car win-
dows, was sent to jail for three months
on the same day that two women who
(Continued on page 13)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
NO motor-car was used in the Eveleigh
hold-up (B. 17/7/’57). The bandits
made their getaway in the horse-cab in
which the pay-clerks had arrived, Shiner
Ryan with the booty and Jewy Freebairn
driving. Freebairn claimed to have
organised the crime—l sat very close to
him in Sydney Central Criminal Court
when he boasted of it on oath.
There was over £4OOO in the swag, most
of it in sovereigns, and the two had a
violent quarrel afterwards, in which Kate
Leigh was involved. Shiner was quickly
gathered-in. Jewy had a longer run, till,
craving a little extra excitement, he tried
a “safe job” on his own. Interrupted by
a nightwatchman, he escaped after plug-
ging the watchman through the head. He
was picked up, and he and Ryan each got
15 years for the Eveleigh hold-up.
Jewy was then charged with “wounding
with intent to murder.” He pleaded an
alibi, and Kate Leigh corroborated his
statement that on the night in question
he had been at a party at her house, had
got gloriously drunk and had had to stay
there all night and part of the next day.
The jury found him guilty, and the death-
sentence was imposed —later commuted
to “life.”
Kate then had to face a perjury charge,
and, in a humble capacity, I assisted at her
trial. After her statement from the dock
I well remember the tense atmosphere
in the court when her solicitor (E. A.
Abigail, I think) asked for Freebairn to
be called. Closely guarded, Jewy entered
the box.
“Your name is Freebairn?”
“Yes.”
“You are at present a confinee of his
Majesty’s Jail?”
“Yes, I’ll be there a long time —15 years
and 20 years.”
“You were concerned with the Eveleigh
hold-up?”
In a loud, boastful voice, Jewy replied,
“I did the Eveleigh hold-up. It was my
job.”
Obviously he was proud of it. It was
clever —and so simple.
The verdict came quickly, and Kate was
remanded for sentence. The morning she
“came up,” she said to John Gonsalves,
then Deputy-Clerk, “Look here, Johnno,
if that old bastard gives me more than
six months, I’m going to play up. I’ll
put on the best show this old court has
ever seen. And you know me.”
Gonsalves knew she had more than six
months coming to her, and when I told
him it would be three years, he decided
all precautions should be taken. Taken
they were —but it was a tame show. After
a short dressing-down, the judge said
“Three years. Remove the prisoner,” and
Kate was on the way down almost before
she realised what had happened. At
the top of the steps she paused and called
out “You old b r!” as she threw him
a kiss.
Later the chief said to me, “They’re
a queer lot.”
O. W. COLEBORNE.
[The paper on which O. W. Coleborne
submitted his recollections of the Eveleigh
hold-up trial was handmade legal parch-
ment, watermarked “Thomas James,
Hurcott Mill 1892.” Explaining its origin,
Mr. Coleborne wrote:
When I entered Phillip Street in 1897
very few solicitors owned typewriters
capable of taking paper larger than foolscap.
Consequently the majority of counsels’
briefs were handwritten, often a tremendous
task, especially if three counsel were
briefed. Outside help was often needed,
and f myself occasionally earned a lime
extra money assisting. For some reason
there was considerable prejudice against
typewritten briefs. Right to the end two
counsel—l believe. Sir Julian Salomons and
C. E. Pilcher —would not accept them.]
❖ ❖ *
T FIRST read—and fell for— The
Sentimental Bloke in 1922, when an
acquaintance sent me the two small
volumes so that I “could learn the
language” before leaving Caledonia to
spend the second half of my life in Aus-
tralia. Word’s can’t express my relief at
finding later that I could get by on King’s
English.—“Scotty.”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Benbow”: Driving from Cairns to
Townsville with the wife, I pulled into a
garage where there was a small crowd of
people waiting. Two mechanics fixed a
leak in a tubeless tyre ; one filled the radi-
ator ; another the tank ; two checked the
engine, and we left in one and a half
minutes flat amidst cheers such as we
hadn’t heard since our honeymoon in ’26.
A mile or two along the road the Ampol
Trial cars began to pass us and we
realised that we had been first of the few.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *
“Doric”: “If we had this theatre in
Sydney, it would be condemned,” I said,
while enduring a show at London’s St.
James Theatre. The play was dull, though
well acted ; the seats were hard and un-
comfortable and the auditorium small,
inartistic and shabby. Yet apparently
there’s an outcry in London against the
demolition of “one of London’s most
beautiful theatres” —and Vivien Leigh
even went so far as to protest in the
House of Lords!
*l* ♦> *!♦
“Sept.”: The international situation
must be grimmer than most of us realise.
Among recent recipients of call-up papers
for National Service training was a
Horsham (Vic.) man of just over seventy!
“True”: Comment by w judge on cir-
cuit: “This has been a most refreshing
case indeed —because all witnesses have
taken the rather unusual course of doing
their best to tell me what actually
happened.”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Kenyas”: A newspaper par. an-
nounced that a spokesman at our school
had stated that a certain number of the
boys were laid low with Asian ’flu. I set
out to find who had supplied the informa-
tion, and discovered that the “spokesman”
was the small boy who happened to
answer the phone when the reporter rang.
♦> *>
“Maitri”: An Austrian friend of
Jewish descent was formerly a dentist in
Vienna. When the Nazis came they con-
signed him to a concentration-camp and
handed over all his beautiful modern
dental equipment—X-ray appliances and
all—to a Nazi dentist whom the
Rumanians had kicked out of Bucharest
after confiscating all his belongings.
Released at last from the camp, my friend
came to Sydney, and now he’s prepared
to swear there must have been one decent
Nazi: the one who’d been given his equip-
ment sent the lot of it out here to turn
and, what’s more, paid the freight!
❖ *> ❖
“Becks”: If anyone in Unk White's
sketch of the gondola stranded on the
mooring-posts (B. 17/7/’57) is entitled
to be surprised it would be the gondoliers,
experiencing the first really decent tide
in the history of Venice.
*t* **♦
“Felicitas”: “Radio CEsterreich,”
in its issue of May 11, 1957, has a long
review of David Low’s autobiography.
It sketches briefly Low’s New Zealand
period, which ended, according to the
reviewer, when he got a joo as cartoonist with
the "Melbourne Bulletin. A good part of the
review is taken up - with the Colonel Blimp
cartoons. Its intei pretation of Blimp is simple
and uncomplicated: the immortal Colonel, it
says, represents all those Englishmen who
through lazy stupidity were prepared to accept
Fascism and Nazism, turning a blind eye to their
evils, confident that all would come right in
the end. I suppose that is one facet of the
Blimp character; but it is surely not
Blimp. It seems that Blimp, like Hamlet/is one
of those toweringly “human” figures that every
man interprets according to his own prejudices,
and in so doing uncovers a good deal of his own
soul. As to the apparent migration of The
Bully, possibly the publicity gained for Mel-
bourne by the Olympic Games is responsible for
the assumption that the Victorian capital is the
home of all significant Australian institutions.


A/f ANY Sydney municipalities conduct
excellent lending-libraries financed
on a fifty-fifty basis out of rates and a
Government subsidy. A condition of the
subsidy is that the service must be free
to all residents, “except that a charge
may be made for works of fiction.” Most
councils make no charge whatever, but
one municipality in the Eastern Suburbs
recently decided to do so. The fee is not
charged for all fiction —a distinction is
made between books that may be con-
sidered works of literature and those that
are, apparently, just works. If writers
were sensitive souls (which, of course,
they aren’t) the system could cause some
heartburning. Handling a batch of new
books the arbiters had to decide whether
Nevil Shute or E. V. Timms qualified
as literature. There wasn’t room for both
—the free list could only take one. I don’t
know whether Mr. Shute should be hurt
or flattered at the knowledge that
borrowers have to pay to read him. —
“Jasby.”
<♦
“D.A.L.”: Haddon Chambers wasn’t
the only Australian dramatist to precede
Ray Lawler in having a play produced in
London (B. 10/7/’57). “Mrs. Pretty
and the Premier,” by Arthur H. Adams,
was produced there about 50 years ago.
♦I 4 ♦£*
“Jock”: In 1880 Andrew Brown, the
Scots “Laird o’ Cooerwull,” at Bowenfels
(N.S.W.), who built the woollen-mills
there in 1824 —they’re still running—
erected and endowed Cooerwull Academy
as a gift to the Presbyterian Church. The
college gave a grounding to many youths
who later made their mark in commerce
and politics. The college closed in 1916
largely because of war-time staffing-
difficulties. For years the huge building
lay in disuse, but in World War II it was
converted into flats, housing scores of
workers in the near-by Small Arms Fac-
tory at Lithgow. The Roman Catholic
Church has now acquired the property for
a De La Salle boys’ college.
“J.C.”: I have always admired the
amazing powers of deduction of our
police, but a recent example left me
absolutely staggered. Accounting for the
barrel of a gun being hot immediately
after a hold-up the press report said:
“Police think that this could indicate that
the gun had been fired several times
shortly before.” It just shows that the
criminal hasn't a hope of winning.
♦I« »> v
“Narumee”: Glad that Hugh Campbell
(B. 10/7/’57) thinks expurgated editions
of books are “out.” They're an insult to
the author, either stimulating a morbid
desire to read the original, or destroying
an intelligent desire to do so. Still, they’re
not so bad as complete rehashes on
“Told for the Children” lines, from
which the greatest sufferer is Dickens,
and the most horrible example Lamb’s
Tales From Shakespeare. 1 have never
understood why classics that were never
intended for children should be con-
sidered, even in this era of “enlightened”
education, as schoolbooks. The spectacle
of 12-year-olds wading drearily through
pages which at 16 they might be mature
enough to appreciate never fails to raise
my sorrow and indignation. As for
sniggerers, they suffer from adolescent
hysteria arising from too little knowledge
—not too much.
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“J.L.S.”: “MacHoots’s” northern
Italian migrant (B. 3/7/’57) was right.
It would be a good deal easier for an
English-speaking Piedmontese (whose
native dialect has a French background)
to understand his fellow-Italian’s broken
English than for him to follow a Cala-
brian dialect. The dialects differ
enormously from province to province.
In Rome our children played all the time
with Italians and spoke Italian for pre-
ference. Then we visited Genoa. While
1 struggled to give directions to a taxi-
driver, they sat like mutes. Later, I said
to them, “You both speak Italian well
enough when you want to. When you saw
the struggle I was having why couldn't
you say something?” Miss Eight replied
patiently: “How could we? We are
Romans. He was Zanese [Genovese].”
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Vingter”: While freelancing in the
early 1930’s I had for about two months
been buying my journals from the same
vendor, a sawn-off middle-aged “news-
boy” who operated from a kerbstone
stand in the city. Came the rporning
when, after much rummaging, I was a few
pence short of the dough needed for the
two papers I wanted. Without hesitation
he waved back my insufficient cash, and
handed me the two journals, together with
“Your uncle , Lord Witheringspoon, leaves the entire family estate and retinue to you."
POINTS FROM THE BALLET
I.—LIGHT, FANTASTIC
Dancers are nymphs of porcelain,
Like M. Fonteyn,
Alive in a world of elves and gnomes
And Michael Somes,
II.—TO MARGOT FONTEYN
Dancers are clever who leap on their
toes,
As any non-dancer attempting it knows.
Which accounts for the gasps when you
land with such grace
On your ten little piggies instead of your
face.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


a ten-bob note and a cheery “See y’ in a
day or so, mate.” From that time he
acted as - my banker off-and-on till I
enlisted in 1940. Only then did he ask
my name and business. He died during
the war years, having amassed, according
to rumor, a tidy fortune. I hope rumor
was right.
❖ ❖ *
“Tasol”: Your correspondent who
complains of the word “antidesegrega-
tionist” and the over-readiness to form
new and unnecessary words by the
addition of affixes would be interested in
the result of a test conducted in a Mel-
bourne secondary school. The pupils
were asked to give the antonym of
“interior.” Of the first five papers looked
at, three gave the following suggestions:
“interiorless,” “uninterior,” and “terior”!
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Hamish”: While on General Alarms
(B. 10/7/’57), at Lytton (Q.) in early 1942
we were aroused from our slumbers in
the wee sma’ hours by our bugler blowing
the call fit to bust. After hurling some
abuse in his direction, under the impres-
sion that an adjoining unit was having
a practice “do,” we went to sleep again.
Shortly after, an irate adjutant shoved his
head into the doorway, and bawled at us
to “Get out —this is fair dinkum!” It
appeared that two Jap carriers had been
reported just north of Moreton Bay, and
H.Q. had ordered us to evacuate our
“You cart open your eyes now—the advertisements are off."
camp at the mouth of the Brisbane River
—as a training unit, we had no effective
weapons. We evacuated all right, straight
through Brisbane to another camp, as per
orders. Citizens on their way to work
were mystified and amused at the sight
of troops clad in pyjamas or underpants,
riding morosely in trucks through Queen
Street at 8 a.m. No one thought to tell
us it was a false alarm until we’d made
the move.
“Sister Ellell”: When the Colonel of
the Royal Australian Army Nursing
Corps had conferred upon her the title
of Honorary Nursing Sister to H.M. the
Queen I had a mental vision of the
Matron-in-Chief hot-foot to Buckingham
Palace, bag-o’-tricks in one hand, the
other bearing aloft Flo’s lamp! But no
sich thing! She is entitled to put up the
Royal Cipher on her uniform.
♦i* *!♦ *j+
“Pevin”: Car-manufacturers are appar-
ently awake to the risk of theft through
stamping the key-number on the door-
handle (B. 3/7/’57). My bus, a recent
model, has the FA 549 clearly on the
ignition-lock, but the makers are more
cunning about the door. The number is
there right enough—if you take the
trouble to remove the lock from the inside
by taking-off the trim and dismantling a
good deal of the window-winding
mechanism. It's on the hidden inside-
end of the lock.
❖ *l* »>
“An Chuidh”: What the heck is
“Sevenelms” blithering about, writing
in The Bully of Filabeg-Cealt? Kilt in
Gaelic is Feile-beng; Cealt or kilt is
unknown. And those “modern four-inch
nickel-plated safety-pins” are, as any
archaeologist will tell him, only as modern
as buttons and brooches. Celtic fibulce,
as safety-pins are technically known,
reached their peak in beauty and utility
in the Bronze Age. Correctly they are
silver-plated.
♦♦♦
“Sackfair”: Just after World War II
a surgeon in Western Germany developed
a far more effective method of -blotting
out tattoo-marks than by tattooing over
them (B. -12/6/’57). E. H. G. Lutz,
whose book on surgery and surgical
marvels, Men With Golden Hands, is
much more exciting than most whodunits,
describes how his assistant used to
anaesthetise the tattooed spot with ethyl-
chloride, then run a sterilised emery-wheel
over it. A fortnight later not even a
magnifying-glass could detect a sign of
either injury or tattoo. The tattoo-marks
thus removed? The blood-group tattooed
on the inside of the upper arm —-
identification mark of the Nazi Storm-
trooper.
THE RISIBLE RISK
“U.S. psychiatrist Martin Grotjahn, after 27
years’ study of the ‘dark psychological
mechanisms’ behind laughter, says it may be a
significant sign of character-deterioration or
approaching critical crises of neurosis. Often
a man with a sense of humor becomes related
to the sadist, inclined to ‘murder’ his victim
with witty or humorous thoughts.”
If you love to get about
With a long and solemn phiz,
Full of deep and dismal doubt
As to family, friends and biz ;
If you whinge and wail and moan
And perpetually groan —
Rejoice! {Do this by looking more
lugubrious ),
For it indicates your mind
Is undoubtedly the kind
The psychiatrist would classify
salubrious.
Oh, it’s sad to see a bloke
With a heart for ever light,
Laughing gaily at a joke,
Seeing Life as something bright.
If he only knew it, he
In a serious state could be,
For it’s certain psychiatric diagnosis
Must assuredly reveal
That he lacks a balance-wheel,
That he’s heading for a “crisis of
neurosis.”
Danny Kaye should be destroyed,
And Bob Hope should be debarred,
For their work is anti-Freud,
Misery’s progress they retard.
When they toss a witty quip,
Or they make pretence to trip
While walking on a narrow , lofty
girder,
And make everybody roar,
They should be arrested, for
They really are committing mental
murder !
If a double that you back
Lands the bacon at long odds;
If the aces three you crack,
Or if otherwise the gods
Smile upon you — don’t look pleased
And by joyfulness be seized.
That’s as dangerous as laughing at a
saga
Of the Dagwood-Blondie kind.
Gloom is lovely for the mind,
But laughter is inclined to send you
ga-ga !
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


■yuALKING home I heard a faint roar
’’ and gazed skywards: Two lights!
The sky, except for stars, was uncluttered.
My luminous watch said 9.18 p.m. The
lights, one green, the other red, were
travelling in parallel formation, and
alternately blinked on and off. Estimated
speed, 250 m.p.h. at 2000 ft.; heading
south. It’s strange that no one reported
them. —“Dorian.”
*l* ❖ ♦>
“Jock”: Street-names of most Aus-
tralian towns aren’t linked with local
industry as definitely as they are in
Lithgow (N.S.W.), site of the Common-
wealth Small Arms Factory. At the time
of the 1914-18 war an estate-agent sub-
divided broad acres near the factory and
began enthusiastically bestowing martial
names. First came Rifle Parade ; others
were Martini Parade, Vickers Street,
Bayonet Street and Carbine Street. The
double-barrelled title of the Lee-Enfield
rifle didn’t worry him; he called one
thoroughfare Lee Street, another Enfield
Street. There was a rash of war names in
Hitler’s war, when the council used
Bardia, Tobruk and other battle areas as
names for streets in a temporary-housing
area. Now that the S.A.F. is about to
make the new Belgian F.N. 280 rifle,
maybe there’ll be a Brussels Avenue or a
Small Bore Street!
*J* ♦>
“Jadas”: My rating as a singer received
a boost when the neighbor’s kiddie heard
me warbling in the garden and said to his
dad: “The man next-door has got his
wireless on.” Was tempted to put-over a
“commercial” to maintain the illusion.
“L.R.M.”: Even with the allowances
listed by “Ceg” (B. 26/6/’57) the job of
officer-in-charge at Macquarie Island
doesn’t carry the salary offered for more
tangible qualifications. On the same
expedition the M.O.’s salary is £lBB3-
£2453, and physicists are offered £953-
£1493, a scale the upper ranges of which
compare with the £1403 paid to the
0.-i.-C. Physicists at Mawson are paid
more (£1403-£1673), but it takes all the
extras to make this better than the £6-£8
per shift which many machine-miners
here in W-A. average today.
»♦« ♦> ♦>
“Sunray”: New to the parish, he was
having difficulty in remembering the
names of his flock, so as he shook hands
he asked each one after service, “And
what is your name?” Said one lass pertly,
“You’ve asked me that for the last three
weeks.” “Oh,” said the parson, slightly
embarrassed ; “but you ladies make it
hard for me. If you’d wear the same
clothes each Sunday I'd remember you!”
*> *j»
“Tom Trout” (London): Italy has had
TV for years, but still gets excited about
it. To meet the weekly opposition of the
teaser programme “Lascia o Raddoppia”
(“Double or Quits”), cinemas dot the
auditorium with sets, and hold-up films
until the. quiz is over. A crowd outside
a radio-shop in a busy Rome street spilled
out into the roadway, making cars take
to the wrong side of the road, but nobody
minded, least of all the cops. The free
show was of vintage Chaplin shorts, and
all agreed it was worth dislocating the
traffic for,
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Sargo”: The recent discovery in
Leeds University Library of a Caxton-
printed copy, dated 1480, of Laurentius
Gulielmus’s Lectures on Rhetoric has
"I've just been thinking , girls—how about a bigger flat?"
excited bibliophiles. One section of the
book is entitled “How to capture and
retain the attention of one’s audience
when they are weary to death of listen-
ing.” It’s a shame, but it's unlikely to
be read by Canberra debaters, as it's the
only copy known.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doormat”: The new bishop was
recalling his early childhood. Once when
the vicar called he was promised sixpence
if he would recite the Lord’s Prayer.
This went off all'right; then he piped up,
“And I’ll do the Creed for a bob!”
Obviously, he had to be a bishop.
* ❖ *
“D.W.”: During a holiday-week on
the South Coast (N.S.W.) a publican lost
some hundreds of beer-glasses. A hotel-
keeper four miles further on, who
charged Is. deposit on his glasses, ended-
up with a surplus: evidently some of
the drinkers indulged in a cash-and-carry
trade.
* <♦
When Canberra at last defines
Grounds for divorce, oh, what a gain f
The man who takes out marriage-lines
At least will know the breaking-strain!
n.s.W. D. H. E.
“Sevenelms”: Last winter men
went overboard for Sinatra-red turtle-
necks following Frank’s appearance so
dad. Recently a hoss-wrangling trauba-
dor imported to Melbourne expressed
his sorrow at seeing so few prads about
our city. Expeditiously numerous mounts
alleviated his equine nostalgia and
promptly he made his publicised ride
from his hotel along St. Kilda-road to
the Stadium. He and his escort of two
blondes strongly featured blue in their
accoutrements, and next morning from
a prescient manufacturer appeared at ail
city shops “Guy Williams Blue” socks
which sold like hot cakes. Jealous
manufacturing rivals bit fingernails and
muttered that even the aptly-printed
cellophane bags in which the half-hose
were sold had a delivery-lag of four
weeks! Now my friend the braces-
manufacturer who suffers sorely from
too many youths in too well-fitted slacks
is losing sleep working out a scheme to
import Liberace, who at a sufficiently
public gathering (preferably Government
House) will remove his coat to rescue a
titled lady from the lily-pond and so
reveal to fashion-conscious men his
ermine-trimmed braces.
, ❖ ❖ ❖
“Chip”: Prize howler perpetrated by a
radio-announcer recently: “We now have
Dr. Peter Russo with newts on the nose.”
Almost as choice was the announcement
that “Mrs. Blank will give a talk on some
of the sights she saw in the Women's
Session.” One that was quite intriguing:
“Now here is an announcement of great
interest to all pigeons.” The announcer
who remarked, “And so, until Monday,
1 .hope you all have a weekend” was not
being intentionally unsympathetic.


POLITICAL POINTS
It is quite understandable that Labor
men should revere the memory of Ben
Chifley, but Calwell was laying it on a
bit thick when he said that to liken Gair
to Chifley is “bordering on sacrilege.” In
happier mood was his quip that to com-
pare the two men was like comparing
a tomtit with a wedgetailed eagle. If
anyone knows his birds, “Cocky” Calwell
should.
• •
Those who are anticipating tax-cuts in
the next Fadden Budget will doubtless
take heart from the news that the New
Zealand Budget brought down on Thurs-
day included tax-concessions worth £6-1
million, mainly accounted for by bigger
rebates in the lower- and middle-income
groups. They should remember, though,
that this is election year in New Zealand.
On present reckoning S’Artie will have
another Budget before the next Federal
poll.
• m
By-election for the Richmond (N.S.W.)
seat in the Reps., vacant through the
death of Larry Anthony, has been fixed
for September 14. The seat is one of
the Country party’s safest strongholds.
Anthony was unopposed in 1954 and
1955 and had nearly 20,000 votes to spare
in 1951. There’s bound to be a big field
for the Country-party nomination, with
the possibility of an Independent or so
giving it a go at the actual poll.
• •
Concerned at the soft cop enjoyed by
N.S.W. Legislative Councillors, the A.L.P.
executive has a plan to make Labor
M.L.C.s do something for their £lO-a-
-week exes. The intention is that the gold-
pass boys, working to a roster, should
report to the A.L.P. electorate-councils
and Labor leagues on the activities of the
Government and Government depart-
ments. An excellent plan—for the A.L.P.
The Upper Housemen will be working
for the party and being paid by the tax-
payers for doing it.
• •
It takes Melbourne City Council to
shift Canberra. After years of vain
attempts to get sections of Federal
Government departments out of premises
in the city, it has found a method —raising
the rents from £2841 to £7475 a year.
“In answer to the arbitrary and sum-
mary demand for an unconscionable
increase in rent, we have offered an
increase in the present rent,” the nipped
Interior Department announced, an
agonised yelp which was music in the
ears of Melburnians used to paying
arbitrary, summary and unconscionable
taxes. Melbourne City Council has a
highly successful record of knockouts
against Canberra, including the original
move to invalidate the Bank Grab Act.
• •
Nicklin and Morris are promising
quick action to attract overseas capital to
Queensland if they have the running of
the State after Saturday. The promise is
inspired by the results achieved for
Victoria in this respect by the Bolte
Government and the party of Melbourne
businessmen who went abroad at their
own expense looking for new industries
for their State—and got some.
• •
Bundies have recently been installed in
Sydney’s Taxation Department. The
initials of the makers, 1.8. M., have been
extended on some machines to read
Infernal B ——— Machine ... A description
which everyone feels, at some time or
other, could aptly be used of the depart-
ment itself.
e • •'
“Ailsey”: Falling under the blows of
the demolishers at Lithgow (N.S.W.) is
the old home of Sir Joseph Cook, Aus-
tralia’s Prime Minister when the 1914-18
war broke out. Opposite the High
School, it was the corner house in a long
terrace of the type favored by architects
of the ’seventies and ’eighties. The terrace
and adjacent tenements are coming down
so that Lithgow Council can build a civic
centre with the near-by Town Hall as the
chief edifice.
Joe, a Staffordshire coalminer and
Methodist lay-preacher, was one of the
first batch of Labor members to enter the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly—in 1891.
He represented Hartley then, but later
broke with Labor, served in George Reid’s
Government 1894-99 and was elected to
the first Federal Parliament as Liberal
member for Parramatta. There are still
one or two old ex-miners in Lithgow who
can recall that Joe’s first campaign-
committee used to meet in a back room
at George Jack’s pub, a fact that doubt-
less caused qualms in the breast of the
budding M.L.A., a rabid teetotaller.
• •*
Asked to reply to the Liberal booklet
alleging a reign of terror in the A.L.P.,
Arthur Calwell obliged:
tf any Liberals are left in 20 years, they
will be expounding the virtues of Democratic
Socialism... .Timid, tremulous, indifference
and fear are the hallmarks of any Liberal
Administration The average Liberal
today is merely a poseur....
No answer at all, of course, but quite
safe ; and it is Arthur’s-stock reply these
days even if he is asked the time, or to
dinner, or what he thinks about army-
worms in the Mallee.
: • •
Cahill is not among the true-blue Labor
men who have flocked to Queensland to
the aid of Duggan. But his interest in the
result of the Queensland poll will be very
leal, nevertheless.
• •
Leslie R. Heath, accidentally killed in a
car-collision a fortnight ago, was member
for Wallaroo in the S.A. Assembly and
had been in Parliament only 16 months.
When he nominated as L.C.P. candidate
for Wallaroo last year no one gave him
much of a chance of winning the seat as
it had been held by Labor since the First
World War. However, his personal popu-
larity built-up over a lifetime in the dis-
trict —he owned a hardware business, had
had long experience in local-government
and was very well-known in trotting
circles —put him at the top of the poll.
• •
Latest reports indicate that the migrant
intake for 1957-58 will remain at
The Immigration Department has con-
ceded that there is not enough shipping
available to bring out a larger number
anyway. The Southern European target
will be cut back to 15,000, compared
with about 31,000 last year; with the
policy of accepting only near-relatives of
Southern Europeans (mostly Greeks and
Italians) now in Australia, there should be
no problem in holding down entries to
this figure.
• •
Former Labor M.H.R. Gordon
Anderson has joined Manning’s D.L.P.
Anderson held the Kingsford-Smith
(N.S.W.) seat from 1949-55, but lost the
preselection to Dan Curtin after the last
redistribution. He was on the N. S. Wales
executive of the A.L.P. for six years.
• •
Playford has been seeing Fadden to
enlist support for securing two new indus-
trial undertakings for South Australia —
an oil-refinery and a tanker-shipyard.
Proposed site for the first is not revealed ;
neither is the name of the company
interested. The shipbuilding venture
would be an extension of the existing
shipyards at Whyalla, enlarged to build
20,000-tonners for Ampol. The plan
would be contingent upon the Common-
wealth’s willingness to extend its ship-
building subsidy to the tankers. At
present the subsidy applies only to vessels
destined for the Australian coastal trade.
Fadden has promised an early reply
on the shipyard venture and has signified
Federal approval of the proposed refinery.
• •
A. W. Henderson, Victorian secretary
of the Electrical Trades Union, can now
be reckoned a fervent adherent of arbi-
tration. He applied to Arbitration Com-
missioner Findlay for a new award and
as a sequel got a rise of £l2 ss. 6d., bring-
ing his weekly screw to £35 11s. 6d.
The commissioner said he made the award
on “work-values” ; and in Lygon Street
other Melbourne union-secretaries
suppose Henderson puts a lot of value
into his work. He also gets £5OO a year
as a State Electricity Commissioner and
is chairman of directors of Industrial
Printing and Publicity Co.


had plundered Myer’s of £4O-worth of
goods were placed on probation for a
year.
It is clear that jovial games between
drivers suspected of being under the
influence and police at police-stations are
not satisfactory tests of sobriety ; and it
is also apparent that those who adjudicate
in petty sessions will have to face the
fact that thefts from motor-cars are
trivial by comparison with the invasion of
homes by intruders, and no more repre-
hensible than the sly, expert nipping-up
in shops.
With unaccustomed modesty, Dr. Evatt
says that Mr. Nehru is the greatest states-
man in the world today. Also, that
India’s policy is very similar to that of
the A.L.P. Any connection between the
first statement and the second is, of
course, entirely coincidental.
• •
A bibulous friend declares that Muscat
and Oman has an oily taste.
• •
Lithgow aldermen are after Cahill’s
scalp for appeasing Cessnock miners at
the expense of western miners. As part
of the “settlement” of the Aberdare stay-
in strike Cahill arranged for the N.S.W.
Electricity Commission to buy 5000 tons
of Aberdare small coal. The Lithgow
folk say that at the same time the com-
mission cut its orders for western coal
by 5000 tons.
• •
Eddie Ward’s Brisbane line this time
has been much the same as Bert’s.
The Transport Workers’ threatened
ban on Wool worths’ cut-price Victorian
eggs, headlined in the Sydney press, must
have brought more custom to the stores
than they’d have got from a full-page
paid ad.
• •
A.L.P. leader Duggan holds that there’s
really no split at all in the Labor party.
He told Queensland in a radio-broadcast
that the Labor Movement was more
united than ever, now it had rid itself
of the “divisive influence” of
Gair, Walsh and Power. He claimed that
there was more evidence every day “that
the much-publicised split in Labor ranks
is largely wishful thinking.”
Yet despite that statement he told an
audience that the Q.L.P. would not poll
more than 15 per cent, of the votes next
Saturday. Fifteen per cent, of the total
vote means about 30 per cent, of the
Labor vote—almost one out of every
three. If Duggan appeared in public with
a split of those dimensions in his pants,
A TRIBUTE INDEED!
“You’re the biggest aspidistra in the world!"
he’d have a hard job to convince a
magistrate that it was only imaginary.
• •
Mr. Les Lee Hai Len, a recent arrival
from Peking, has been rudely critical (by
telegram) of the first public speech of new
U.S. Ambassador Sebald in which he
defended American policy towards Red
China.
• •
Bowral (N.S.W.) has received a coat-of-
arms from the Heralds’ College. The
design includes a pair of dividers (repre-
senting the town’s founder (Surveyor-
General Oxley); a cow’s head ; the Gib. f
a red cross, an arrow and a lion, all of
which have a reasonable significance in
heraldic lore when adequately explained.
An earlier design was turned down by the
council because the suggested supporters
were a convict and an abo. This time the
Heralds have played safe —the supporters
are a brace of kookaburras. Still, the
council should send this one back, too.
No mention of Bradman l
• •
There appear to be several contestants
for the job of 1-am of Oman.
• •
Next time Evatt wants to send a
message to Molotov he’ll have to address
it to Afghanistan or Argentine. At least,
the Washington “Post” says he is to be
sent to one of those countries as
ambassador. If the report is true.
Khrushchev is taking a risk ; old Molo.
might decide “to do a Petrov.”
• •
Murray Robson, former Opposition-
leader in the N. S. Wales Parliament, has
abandoned politics and resigned his
Vaucluse seat in the Assembly. He says
that his clashes with the party-executive
have nothing to do with his decision,
which is necessitated by the death of one
of the partners in his law firm. However,
early this month at a Liberal branch-
meeting in his electorate he blamed Ash
Street for the Opposition’s failure to
defeat the Cahill Government at the last
election, it having rejected a proposed
Country-party pact which he and Colonel
Bruxner had tentatively approved.


PERSONAL ITEM S
“Collins Street”: Gad, sir, as Low
would say, a Sydney cove as president of
the Melbourne Cricket Club! Still,
Charles Wiffin Simmonds did play cricket
with Trumper at Paddington, and the
patina of the M.C.C. committee has
glowed on him since he was first elected
to it in 1920. At 83 he still does physical
jerks every day and plays vigorous golf.
He was a boxer of sorts as a youth, a
-cricketer, but a better footballer (since he
captained the Corowa team of 1899), and
an even better baseballer (he was in the
Australian team that played America in
1904).
• •
Commander John A. Walsh, 0.8. E.,
who takes over as Resident Naval Officer,
Queensland, after being Naval Officer-in-
Charge, South-east Australia Area (with
headquarters in Melbourne) since 1955,
was born at Toowoomba, so he’s going
back to his home State. Since then, of
course, he’s been around a bit: schooled
in the Navy’s ways at Jervis Bay, a cadet
midshipman in 1914, commanding Vam-
pire 1938-42. In 1942 he was executive
officer of Canberra, and at the Savo Island
show, although wounded, took over com-
mand when the captain was fatally
wounded. He relieves Commander H. S.
Chesterman, 0.8. E., who is retiring in
August after having been Resident Naval
Officer in Queensland since 1948.
• •
When Walter Selle retired from the
position of Registrar of Sydney Univer-
sity a Bulletin contributor wrote:
Selle is as much of the University as is the
Great Hall and the Main Building, and the
place won’t seem the same without him.
Last month —10 years later —Selle was
given a surprise-party by the students of
the University. He had resigned from the
position of trustee of the Students’
Bursary Fund, which he helped to estab-
lish many years ago. The president of
the Students’ Representative Council at a
dinner presented Selle with a delightful
oil-painting (by N. Woodley) of a country
scene near Bathurst. The silver plate
bears the inscription—“To Walter Selle,
the Students’ Friend, from the Students
of the University of Sydney, June, 1957.”
• •
“H. 8.”: When Eric Westbrook gave up
his job at Auckland’s Art Gallery to take
over as Director of the Melbourne
Gallery, Peter Tomory was selected from
a number of overseas candidates in 1956.
Imported from England, where he had
been 2/i.c. of two galleries and an Arts
Council regional director, Tomory, who
is now 35, held a commission in the R.N.
during War 11, serving mainly in the
Mediterranean. A keen Rugby Union
man of not-so-long-ago (no disadvantage,
even for an Art Director, living in New
Zealand), he is now content to watch, but
he is an enthusiastic yachtsman and does
PETER TOMORY
a fair bit of skiing. Eric Westbrook made
an excellent start in transforming the
stodgy Auckland Art Museum into a
modem Art Gallery, and Tomory is
carrying on the good work with taste and
discretion.
• •
“D.”: Old Parliamentary hands at
Spring Street were surprised when it was
announced that George Doward was
going to retire. George, for the past
three years editorial chief of Victorian
“Hansard,” is as much a part of the
Victorian Assembly as John Cain. I had
looked down on his natural Yul Brynner
head for decades; there is a decided
advantage in having no hairline ta
retreat.
Many of the nation’s most accomp-
lished speakers, and a surprisingly large
number who had some idea syntax isn’t
just a racehorse, flowed through his 200-
words-a-minute pen, but his favorite was
the Prime Minister, who served his Parlia-
mentary apprenticeship in the Victorian
House. “There were times when I simply
wanted to put down my pen and listen
to what R.G. had to say,” he told me.
“It wasn’t simply his wit, but the content
of his speeches. He was quite as good off-
the-cuff ; and he was always worth hear-
ing in court. As a young reporter on the
‘Argus,’ my favorite job was an R. G.
Menzies case.”
George Doward thinks Sir Thomas
Maltby, current Minister for Public
Works, is one of the best speakers in the
present Assembly, and, between Menzies
and Maltby, Sir Wilfrid (Billy) Kent
Hughes, now M.H.R.; but he says the
standard of speeches in Parliament has
improved, which perhaps might mean
that some M.L.A.s and M.L.C.s now
finish their sentences. Next year Doward,
who was born and educated in London
but served with the Anzacs, will take a
look at what the English have done to
Paternoster Row after what the Germans
did to it; it was there he read his first
proofs.
• •
Commonwealth officers in Melbourne
drank several hearty toasts at Scott’s last
Thursday to Frank Leo Sullivan, chief
auditor in Victoria, when he retired, a
day short of 65. He had been in the
public service for 47 years and associated
with the Hibernian Society for 50. His
record in football isn’t so faithful. He
was captain and coach of both Brunswick
and Brighton football clubs in the
Association, but lost touch when he was
transferred to Canberra (where he
coached Manuka), and when he returned
to Melbourne he became a member of
Richmond, a League team; which, he
now admits cheerfully, was most
reprehensible. Sullivan, who spent the
1931-38 period in Canberra, was sent to
Melbourne as accountant to start the
national insurance service, but he says
the notice to drop it, in June, 1939, was
not the most dramatic moment in his
long public-service life: it was listening
to the reading of the proclamation in
Canberra of Edward’s abdication.
• •
Jack Lusby on a Special Type:—•
Run to earth the other day in Sydney,
Brigadier James Michael Calvert, a big, fresh-
faced chap with the build of a Rugby forward
and the marks of the glove on his features (he
captained the British Army boxing and swim-
ming teams, some time back), whose soft voice
is reminiscent of Roger Livesey acting the young
Colonel Blimp. He was born near Delhi, where
his father was assistant-commissioner, went into
MIKE CALVERT


the Royal Engineers via Woolwich and honors
engineering at Cambridge, served in Hong Kong
and Shanghai, and in February, 1940, was back
in England training sth Scots Guards’ ski-
troops for the Finland v. Russia shooting-
match : this little jaunt fell through, but tne
other types attracted to this kind of warfare gave
Calvert a taste for.special duties.
With a party of “special” types he hampered
German pursuit in Norway on a B.E.F. (bacic
at end of fortnight) job,
then went to Britain’s
first commando school,
on an island off the
coast of Scotland, and
passed out with the
first course in
demolition and sabo-
tage. The invasion of
England heavy in the
air, he was briefed to
join Peter Fleming and
raise a guerrilla force
under General Thorne
in Sussex and Kent ;
apart from Thorne,
Alanbrooke and Mont-
gomery were very much
in this picture. The pro-
ject was well in train
when he was sent to
join Mission 104 to
Australia and New
Zealand. Captain
Bernard Callinan,
D. 5.0., M.C., in his
book Independent
Company, writes: “To
Stuart Love, Mike
Calvert and Freddie
Chapman must go the
credit for the training
of the first commandos,
who performed so
well in Timor.”
Then to Malaya, to
train Chinese guerrillas,
and on to the training-
school in Burma
known as Bushwalkers,
first as instructor,
then as commandant.
Both Slim and
Alexander, in their
books, have criticised
Bushwalkers because
its products weren’t
jungle-fighters. Calvert
makes the point that
Bushwalkers’ job was
to train for fight-
ing in China, not
noted for its jungles:
as things turned out,
the men were diverted to jungle work.
Calvert joined Wingate, whose ideas he con-
siders far ahead of anything he had yet
encountered: plenty of action followed. In
August, 1943, Wingate was posted suddenly to
Quebec, and left a note telling Calvert to take
over the brigade of four battalions. On March
6, 1944, Calvert’s brigade made the initial
glider-landing 150 miles behind the Jap lines.
Heavy casualties and no reinforcements; many
wounded two and three times; one man carry-
ing on with five wounds. The remnant took
Mogaung, Slilwell’s objective. The 8.8. C.
credited this victory to Sino-American forces,
and Calvert sent a message to all concerned:
"Now that Sino-American forces have taken
Mogaung, the 7/7th Brigade proceeds to take
umbrage.” Stilwell put him under arrest, but
changed his mind and made amends with six
silver stars for valor to the brigade, including
one for Calvert. The brigade already had four
V.C.s. Invalided home, Calvert popped up
again in command of a special airborne force
(two British, two French, a Belgian and a Dutch
battalion) and with it saw the crossing of the
Rhine. Then to Norway, on to Hyderabad, into
Afghanistan, Persia and Baluchistan, back to
England for a staff-college course, on Mont-
gomery’s annual-exercise planning-staff in 1948,
thence to Trieste with the Allied Military
Government, out to Hong Kong, then to
Malaya to prepare a report for Harding, C.1.C.,
South-east Asia. There Calvert formed No. 22
Special Air Services Regiment, which is still
going strong. Severe illness forced retirement.
His book on the Burma campaign, Prisoners of
Hope, sold 20,000 copies and is out again as a
paper-back. He emerged with a shirtload of
decorations: D.S.O. and Bar, American Silver
Star, Legion d’Honneur (Officer), Croix de
Guerre with Palm, Order of Leopold 11, Belgian
Croix de Guerre with Palm, Norwegian Cross of
Liberty. He was back in Australia again in
1953, this time for an oil company.
TOM SHAKESPEARE, elected N.S.W.
bowlers’ president last week.
“Judee”: Dr. James Tarleton Ray-
ment, who has passed on in Sydney, was
a good friend of Arnhem Land (N.T.)
° * a u u ip
natives. He took a firm Stand on behalf
of aboriginal actor Robert Tudawali, of
“Jedda” film fame, when his family were
sick anc j destitute, and he treated and
cured Liya Wulumu, who had been
Healh ”
UCcUU -
Home after a six-months walk of hos-
pitals and inspection of public-health
r . T f c .um/
systems in the U.S., Canada and the U-K.,
Dr. J. W. Rollison, Director-General Or
Medical Services in South Australia,
Overseas, he found that hospitals in all
three countries are hampered by shortage
.
# #
An Enzedder, R. H. Wade, has been
appointed Director of the Colombo Plan
technical cn-oneration in
Bureau . techmcai c 0 °Pf ral i? n .. 10
Colombo, in succession to Dr. Nathan
Keyfitz, of Canada. Wade, who goes
f rom the New Zealand High Commis-
cinner’c office in Ottawa ffirst secretary)
Dominion’s Department of External
Affairs, including a stretch at the Embassy
in Washington. He’s the second Waitakt
High School boy (Oamaru) to step into a
big job recently. The other is Foss
Shanahan, High Commissioner for South-
east Asia.
• •
“Jock”: Given an honorary degree of
Doctor of Divinity from Aberdeen
University the other day, the Rev. John
Calder, M.A., 8.D., who, until he
retired last year, had been minister of
St. Peter’s Presbyterian Church, North
Sydney, for 32 years. He graduated from
Aberdeen in 1900. In 1917 he was posted
to the 34th Battalion, AJ.F., as a chap-
lain, and was with fhe unit through the
remainder of its campaigns in France.
To receive the honor "Old Johnny,” as
the Diggers knew him best—he is 84—
went to Aberdeen accompanied by his
two daughters. He attends the battalion’s
annual reunion in Sydney each year ; his
warning, after saying grace: “Now, you
fellows, keep your ‘olue’ jokes until I’ve
gone.” They do.
• •
Constable Desmond James Sheehan,
22, stationed at St. George IQ.), last May
disarmed a demented man who went for
him armed with an iron bar. Queensland
Police Commissioner Harold commented
on the constable’s great courage in doing
so, and recently Sheehan received the
B.E.M. in recognition. He’s not the only
policeman in the family ; his father is
sergeant-in-charge at East Brisbane, and
brother Brian, aged 20, is ■ at
Woolloongabba.
• •
A last-minute selection sent Keith
Paterson, a 21-year-old law student of
the Westralian University, to represent
Australia at an international student con-
ference in Japan. After that, he will make
a ten-days tour of Nippon. The trip is
being financed by the Asia Foundation
of America, which has made £446 avail-
able for the purpose. Paterson, besides
being vice-president of the W.A. Univer-
sity’s guild of undergrads, and president
of the law school’s Blackstone Society,
is secretary-treasurer of the National
Union of University Students.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Canberra, at 67, Col. Eric Longfield Lloyd,
former director (1944-52) of the Common-
wealth Investigation Service. M.C. in World
War I.
In Melbourne, at 81, Sir Herbert Olney, Mel-
bourne businessman and philanthropist.
Victorian M.L.C. 1931-43.
At Marling, near Narrogin (W.A.), at 90,
John Henry Lavender, a pioneer of the Williams
district. His parents, William and Catherine
Lavender, were two of the district’s first
settlers.
At Grenfell, at 81, William McCabe, father
of former Test-batsman Stan McCabe.
In Sydney, at 74. “Tedda” Courtney, a
member of the original Kangaroos Rugby
League team that toured the United Kingdom
in 1908. He went again in 1911. He played for
Western Suburbs (Sydney) as a forward, and
remained in the game long enough to see his
son play alongside him for the club.
In Adelaide, at 76, Ben Matson, well-known
S.A. racehorse-trainer.


ABORIGINALITIES
AFTER explaining to the kids that
casemoths add twigs and leaves to
their case as camouflage we were sur-
prised to see our specimen casemoth
gaily and eyecatchingly decorated with
strips of red, blue, orange and yellow.
It had been inadvertently left overnight
near some pieces of plastic string, and
had gone to work on its usual camouflage
job.—“ Jim Crow.”
“Narumee”: London’s “Time and
Tide” says that Arthur Upfield was
among the runners-up for the annual
Critic’s Award of the Crime Writers’
Association, and that his stories of
murder in the bush have created “a more
sympathetic feeling for Australia than
many large serious books.” Maybe it’s
because Bony’s adventures are so much
more readable than large, serious books,
or long pamphlets full of statistics and
climate- and rainfall-tables. And maybe
Australia House could use some of
Upfield’s descriptions of the country to
good advantage when handing out
literature to possible migrants.
*fe * * *
“Myall”: At Dalby ,(S.Q.) a purebred
full-mouthed four-year-old Border-Lei-
cester ewe weighed, dressed, 1731 b. It is
estimated the liveweight was 2501 b. The
carcass measured 40in. from neck to tail,
17in. across the back, girth 45in. One of
the legs weighed 271 b., against the aver-
age of 81b. for a leg of mutton. A feature
noted by the butcher was that the carcass
contained no more kidney-fat than would
be found in an ordinary-sized sheep.
That outsize matron must go close to
the record.
* * * *
“Peter Simple”: All the hot air sent
up by file “flying-saucers” reported over
Katoomba, on the N.S.W. Blue Moun-
tains, could have a literal base. I know
two practical-jokers who earlier fooled
residents lower down the Mountains.
They built a bag out of tissue-paper, put
" Were looking for new fruit-barrow sites."
a light wire frame around the bottom, and
to this attached a lighted methylated-
spirits wick. As soon as the hot air
filled the bag, up it went. Such a balloon
will continue to rise as long as the wick
burns ; and the light from it glows in a
variety of colors as it reaches the upper
air.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: My uncle, a teacher of
the violin, had a visit from the skipper
of a Tasmanian ketch who sought an
opinion on a fiddle he had brought from
Burnie and on which he had an option
at £2OO. Uncle tuned and played it,
pronounced it an excellent instrument
and suggested that the prospective owner
play it in his hearing. The shellback sat
down, firmly tucked the violin into his
ample lap and, ’cello-wise, bowed it
spiritedly and tunefully. Asked how he
acquired this unusual technique, he
explained that when he began on his salty
career a sailor could only practise his
music in his bunk, and limited head-room
precluded the conventional bowing of a
chin-held fiddle
* * * *
“Jabini”: What efficient aids are the
beaks of those communal fellows the
babblers! That long, curved bill is used
to probe deep crevices for food inacces-
sible to most other birds. For digging it
becomes a pick which makes the dirt fly.
It is used as a lever to shift comparatively
heavy things which may have insects
lurking below. I’ve seen the beak used
also to tease-up raw cotton, which was
held down by the feet. And even when
he's down on the ground and can’t fly
the babbler isn’t beaten. He is still lively
and mobile and able to feed himself, and
by hopping and climbing nimbly, with
the same useful beak assisting, he can
shin-up the home-tree and join his mates
in the nest.
* * * *
“Cowyard Kate”: Notice that Brian
Walsh, in his expert article in The
Bulletin Wool Issue, uses the spelling
“lox” (fleeces, bellies, pieces, lox) and
can’t help wondering why for years I
helped brand bales “Lks.” The Oxford
Dictionary I looked up has no word
spelt “lox,” though the word “lock” is
given as meaning: “Portion of hair that
hangs together, tress (pi.), hair of head ;
tuft of wool or cotton.” Whence then
comes “lox”? My guess is the U.S.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: An old gossip of the W.A.
goldfields passed on a few weeks back
when “The Coolgardie Miner” was in-
corporated in the newly-launched “Great
Eastern Times,” more than 60 years after
its first publication. Most of its contem-
poraries succumbed in earlier decades, the
last one to go being “The Southern Cross
Times,” once the vehicle for “Bull-Ant”
Mclntyre’s pungent comments. “The
Coolgardie Miner” has had several
revivals since the days when it was edited
by F. C. B. Vosper, but this time it looks
like curtains. Only “The Kalgoorlie
NUDIBRANCHS
Down in the ocean-pool
Mowing the soft brown weed,
A great herd of them feed
In water champagne-cool.
Tender-horned and slow,
Yet have they travelled much;
So light they scarcely touch
The meadows where they mow.
These frail and dainty things —
A score held in my hand —
Merge with the weeds and sand,
But every low-tide brings
New versions—gold or blue
Or shrimp-pink spotted with red—
Like fairy cattle fed
On fairy grass and dew.
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN.


vV A CMefcß.y-fcs.ANpy,
COLONZL ? f/ n{?
© •
vv —— a
i.IGHT?' 5 '
O .vi r
4 9 7/
A SUfIACAO, THEM f
* ■
A CK2MS -PS ~
CACAO 7 //f
N&M, TH€N ~
»\ A MUSHROOM UtGOZoR. /
, VV
If "foo VOhX m/np
CX-P CHAP, l
kTH/NK (it- HAVS A
1 PORT - W/Nt
CHAS£R , /7


Miner” is left out of the score or more
papers that were published in the gold-
fields during the ’nineties, and some of its
territory is being invaded by the new
weekly, which serves Esperance, Norse-
man, Coolgardie and Southern Cross.
* * * *
f llu „„
C.W.S. : The desolation of • -
lackened cemetery ( .
iM cnn i? n L h n UI^ e K lg way
(N.S.W.) could be challenged by a as -
resting-place at Queenborough, within a
shoit stab-pass of the Sandy Bay foot a -
ground which is not so very tar from
Central Hobart. Those who ven u e
through rts portals are greeted with the
notice: Beware ot snakes in this area.
* * * *
“Kate”: “It couldn’t belong outside of
fairyland,” I told myself, looking in a
Melbourne shop-window ; but, “Yes, it is
real,” the florist said. “I picked it myself
in the hills at Emerald, yesterday.”
It was the most beautiful toadstool and
bud—or young toadstool—l have ever
seen. The large one was about 9in. in
diameter, the usual cream color under-
neath, the top a glorious
blending of orange and red
—absolutely vivid —covered
with bright yellow spots
about as big as a grain of
wheat. The small one was
of the same coloring with
the same spots, but was un-
opened. They grew on his
friend’s property in thick
leaf-mould, and the florist
said he had seen them in
red, pink, blue and mauve.
Scarcely anyone passed the
florist’s window without
giving it a second goggle-
eyed stare.
* * *
“Noon”: Duboisia (cork-
wood) scored yet another
strong point on the value
side when the C.5.1.R.0.’s
Division of Industrial
Chemistry found that it con-
tained hyocine, or “twilight
sleep,” used in childbirth.
The shrub had already
proved a goldmine because
of its contents of atropine,
used for dilating the pupils
in eye - surgery. Once
thought useless, the
poisonous shrubs would
grow as fast as they were
cut out, and any vestige of
root would shoot into vigorous growth.
To have it on a property was to be cursed
with a fast-growing poisonous pest, very
hard to control. This same toughness is
valuable now that its bushes are like
gold growing out of the ground. Hyocine,
hyocyamine, atropine, nicotine and bella-
donna are the commercial drugs produced
from them.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: With the Pericles wreck
located on January 12, from bearings
given by the Harbormaster of Fremantle,
just 80 tons of lead, in good condition,
had been raised when salvage operations
were suspended for the winter at the end
of April. The real worry of the aqua-
lung diver has not been the waves or the
weather, but inquisitive sharks that might
be inclined to include him in their diet.
Chief operational difficulty has been the
absence of any sort of jetty within many
miles of the Leeuwin. This has meant
raising the ingots, loading them on to a
barge, dumping them in shallow water
near shore> then reloading oa to an
underwater truck and hauling up to dry
land with a winch . The vessel> originally
sun k wdd tbe d her mainmast show-
ing aboye waterj was left to rust away>
lead h e i n g t hen wortd ord y a f ew pence a
pound. Now, with lead the prime insula-
tor in atom-splitting operations, it be-
comes.worth while. Brass and copper
fittings, quite" untouched by any seawater
action, may also be worth salvaging. A
few pieces have already been raised.
Although the iron to which they were
attached had rusted away, 46 years under
water has merely coated them with a
kind of coral.
“Sebak”: Ever stop to wonder why, in
turning surnames into slang, we add a
“y” to some and an “o” to others, and the
affixes are not interchangeable? But to
select the right one is as natural to an
Aussie as breathing. Endearment or
hostility have nothing to do with it: the
best schoolteacher (and incidentally one
of the finest men) I ever knew was affixed
with an “o,” while another teacher who
taught me just two things: to hate him
and loathe school, bore the “y..” On the
other hand, the most popular fellow on
our job today is a “y” man, with the most
disliked an “o.” It's all a matter of
syllables. Nobody would think of allud-
ing to “Joneso” or “Browno,” but it
would sound equally ridiculous to talk,
say, Stevenson as “Stevvy” or Thompson
as “Thommy.” Hence Jonesy and
Tommo.
* * # •
“Biridja”: An article in The Bulletin
some months back paid a well-deserved
tribute to J. D. Tipper for his work at
Muogamarra Reserve, near Sydney, but
I wish there had been mention of the
aboriginal rock-carvings in which he is
interested, and of which his reserve will
save many. Those interested in this side
of the aboriginal story have a difficult
task. The Anthropological Society,
especially aided by F. D. McCarthy, of
the Australian Museum, has sought to list
and describe as many as possible, but a
sad part of it is that, where possible, the
rock-carvings have to be covered with
earth to protect them! To be able to see
the carvings normally, as at Muogamarra,
must tend to create interest, and so pro-
tection. An aborigine's picture of a
snake may not be high art, but it's
surely more interesting than the declara-
tion that Tom loves Mabel.
TRIBAL
Plover weep across the dark;
Hear the cry of another,
Supple man with black-bruise skin
Plaintive to his brother.
Winds along the emptiness,
Dustclouds in a host
Like forsaken spirits through
Campgrounds of the lost.
This is not the time of spears;
Now the lonely son —
Long divided from the myth
Or the truth, is gone.
Yet, insistence in the blood,
Quick behind the tongue :
“ Creature, look again at life
When the tribe was young.”
Emu-down, and sweat, and pride,
Moonlight on a blade,
Ochre-red and flesh new-cut,
Dance of man and shade;
Flute, or swan on wilder air,
Or the elders crying?
There may always be a ghost
Where the ash is lying.
Some there are not born to know
More than city drought;
Never bone of wilderness,
Never walkabout;
Nor how sandhills razor up
Scarlet in the light,
Saltbush pearly-grey as dove
At beginning night.
Some will never be the heirs
Of the desert star,
Nor behold a feathered flash
In the coolibah.
May the lost one ache with pain
For the rites not known ?
Can a spark along the vein
Tempt the visions flown ?
Even so may blossom dream
Stronger than the mate . . .
When he sees himself adorned,
Made initiate.
N.Z.
PAULA HANGER BIRCH.


TIfHEN the pup, pride and joy of our
Papuan houseboy and his wife,
was killed by a car, houseboy
placed its body on a banana-
leaf and carried it in solemn state
back to the boy-house. His wife retired
to the laundry and gave tongue to her
grief in heart-rending wails. My wife
went down to try to comfort her, but it
was the type of grief which throve on
sympathy. By the next day it had
degenerated to a settled sadness ; it per-
vaded the house, and we felt uncomfort-
able about taking an interest in even the
ordinary affairs of living. Then, towards
evening, there seemed to be a lightening
of the atmosphere around the boy-house,
and an accelerating activity. In ones and
twos visitors dropped in until there were
about a dozen. The noise swelled gradu-
ally, and then blossomed into song. My
wife looked at me incredulously. “They’re
having a party!” she said. “You don’t
think . . .?” We aren’t certain to this
day . . . but the houseboy wouldn’t show
our children where he had buried the
pup.—“Tasol” (Papua).
* * * *
“Sunray”: He was upset, and rightly so,
at the way he had been treated by the
firm for which he was agent in the town,
and told them so in good straight
language. The firm wrote a soothing
letter and hoped for the b6st. Twenty
years later they received his reply: “1 am
in receipt of your smooth letter and
regret that I have not replied to it before,
as I have been too busy dealing with my
less-important correspondence”!
* * * *
“Ceg”: All over central Victoria there
are small settlements which a century ago
carried large mining populations. Now
reduced to mere clusters of small houses
and perhaps an odd pub, they once
boasted long main streets lined with
drinking-shanties, stores, and so on.
Most of the buildings were subsequently
demolished or carted to the new fruit-
settlements, but the old streets remain,
and many of the diggers no doubt finished
their evening debauch in the gutters
there. So if the gutters were prospected
maybe a fair amount of gold would be
brought to light—both coined and other-
wise. Gold then was worth -only about
£3 15s. an ounce, and it was chucked
about with abandon. A little place called
Bowenvale (known in the digging days as
Timor) might be worth looking at for the
first try-out. In the “golden” days it had
37 pubs.
* <• * *
“J. Slay”: Two faux pas in one
sentence in Frogman V.C., by lan Fraser :
“The ship’s schedule meant that we
travelled up the coast of Australia as far
as Port Alma, the outlet for the flourish-
ing town called unimaginatively Towns-
ville.” The naming of this city was
scarcely unimaginative. It was once
known as Castleton, but later, following
the Australian custom to name towns
after important people, it was renamed to
commemorate one of its founders, Sir
“ There’s another one Wrestling with his conscience."
Robert Towns. And as for Port Alma —
I suppose they later anchored off Magnetic
Island before proceeding up the Burdekin
to Rockhampton.
* * * *
“Keima”: In The Twelve Caesars,
Suetonius records the fact that, when
praetor in charge of the Floral Games,
the future Roman Emperor Galba had
“introduced the spectacular novelty of
tightrope-walking elephants.” Suetonius
unfortunately says nothing further about
these pachydermatous Blondins. For one
thing, surely the rope would need to
have had the tensile strength of steel
cable—did the Romans have any such
material? Anyway, such a trapeze act
would surely be a “spectacular novelty”
if put on down at the Tivoli today.
* * * *
A NEIGHBORLY gift of a bantam hen
and four chicks snowballed in our
Brisbane backyard until bantams domin-
ated the domestic scene.
♦-
Acting under firm instructions from
above I proffered the lot to a phlegmatic
colleague already saddled with blood-
pressure and adolescent children and
immune to any further slings of fortune.
Only stipulation was that he help me
catch the wildfowl.
“Simply catch the fowls?” he asked.
“Certainly!”
We agreed on a night raid.
Our first snatch-and-grab yielded one
captive and sent the rest zooming star-
wards and levelling on various cross-
country courses. One slapped into the
top of a papaw and another into a
mango-tree. They only paused for
breath.
Friend and I spent the evening crash-
ing bougainvillea and choko-vines,
climbing fences and explaining to dis-
turbed neighbors. A mother-hen was
taken while spreading a ready wing for
newly hatched chicks converging on her
like daisy-cutting golf-balls.
Becoming tattered, torn and scratched,
we returned to base ever and anon to put
the catch in the boot of friend’s car.
After a breather and a modest measure
of the beverage for which Queensland is
famous we returned to the fray ; on each
occasion with renewed determination to
leave no stone unturhed, no tree un-
sealed, no fence-paling unloosened and,
if necessary, no item of clothing untorn.
About midnight the job was done and
in village-smithy mood we said our good-
nights and friend drove home.
In the morning a querulous cackle
brought me to the veranda-rail. A handful
of brown-and-gold rooster strutting about
asking “Where is everybody?”
Friend’s wife answered the phone, and
an iceberg chill hung in the morning air.
Firstly, it seemed that in the thrill of
the chase friend had forgotten to get home
in time to compere a daughter’s birthday-
party. Secondly, he’d forgotten what the
car-boot contained and had thoughtlessly
opened it. Thirdly was something to do
with the state of his clobber. Fourthly,
his breakfast was ruined while he
cavorted about the suburb in his pyjamas
chasing bantams. Fifthly (or there-
abouts) I myself emerged with little to be
proud of
“Would you tell him,” I cut in, “that
we missed one? If he’d care to pop over
again this evening”
It’s amazing how hard telephones can
be crashed down without breaking.
YBSUL.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
Business, Robbery, Etc.
What Is Our Future ?
[From "Ex-ACT”]
A RE Douglas Copland and
Clunies Ross right when
they tell us we are on the verge
of the most exciting develop-
ment in our history on this con-
tinent if we are enterprising and
adventurous, or are the advo-
cates of restraint and prudence
the real prophets of vision? It’s
rather important to know,
because everything vital in our
national and individual policies
is affected. Investment, expan-
sion, the migration programme,
defence, and international rela-
tions must all be conditioned
on whether we believe the risks
inherent on a bold approach
to the future, including the
risk of more and substantial
inflation over a number of
years, are worth taking or not.
The issue is a basic one, and
the final decision to be made
soon must eventually rest with
the Federal Government, rein-
forced by an informed public
opinion. Much more is involved
than a mere desire to “keep
what we have,” although that
outlook must be given its due
weight.
One imponderable is an
assessment of what the
world will be like at
the close of this century,
what its needs will be for foods
and other products of Aus-
tralia, and for living-space.
Another is the quality of
national leadership* during the
next few decades, the calibre of
the top men in politics, in
education, in the arts and
sciences, in industry and
commerce. Yet another is the
outlook of citizens, old and
new, native-born and acquired
through immigration, on
national problems and on
service for their country in all
spheres of thought and work.
At the same time there must
be some realistic views on the
uses to be made in Australia of
atomic power and of epoch-
making developments in agri-
culture as well as on the appli-
cation of new methods of
defence for safeguarding our
present and future populations.
There is not much evidence
at present that these matters
are being considered by any of
the political parties as part of
a great pattern which must be
evolved not haphazardly but
as a result of well-judged
guidance for the best and most
productive use of all our
resources, mental and physical.
Perhaps a symposium on
“What Should Australia Be
Doing Now To Prepare For
a.d. 2000?” might produce
some results if the leading
exponents of all current think-
ing in this country were
brought together to discuss the
problem.
After all, the end of the
century is little more than 40
years away, and a large propor-
tion of our present population
will live to see it—-unless some
madmen decide to destroy the
world.
A cue might be taken from
Canada, which recently set up
an expert commission to report
on the Dominion’s prospects
over the next 25 years.
Two Textile Shares
T)OSSIBLY because of doubts
-*• about the effect of the
Japanese trade-treaty on cotton-
goods imports, Bradford
Cotton ords. have dropped to
375. 3d., after sales this year
as high as 435. 3d.
What effect Japanese imports
will have on Bradford Cotton
Mills and others in the coarse
cotton-goods industry remains
to be seen, but they have been
able to cope w'ith competition
very well up to date. During
the financial year just closed
Australian output of cotton
yarn and woven cotton-goods
was up satisfactorily on that
for the preceding term. Brad-
ford Cotton maintained its
interim at 124 p.c. p.a., and
there seems little reason to
doubt that the final will be
the same. At 375. 3d. the
yield from a 12j p.c. div. would
be 6.6 p.c.
Another textile leader is
Australian Woollen Mills. Its
shares have dropped to 28s. 6d.,
being built and under planning
was over 1,200,000 tons a year,
Again, the sterling capital of
the British Aluminium Co. is
not £3,000,000. Its balance-
sheet at December 31, 1956,
shows issued ordinary and
preference shares totalling £Bl
million, whilst with reserves,
debentures, etc., the capital
employed is not far short of
£3O million.
There is another wrong
statement which I feel should
be firmly contradicted. There
“To you, Cuthbert, I'm allocating the largest of our sales
territories. See what you can make of it."
compared with this year’s
“high” of 335. 6d. Costs of
raw material have increased at
a time when selling in the
industry has been more ditfi-
cult, but A.W.M. is one of the
leaders in the industry, with
exceptionally strong finances,
Overall, production during the
past year has held up well.
If 10 p.c. is paid for the past
year the yield at 28s. 6d. will
be 6.9 p.c.
“Aluminium and Power”
[From “Young nigger”]
TN “Old Ooencut’s” article
1 in U «ai
-*• (B. 24/7/’57) on “Alu-
minium and Power," the
600,000 tons of aluminium
ingot a year stated to be the
ultimate capacity of Kitimat
(Canada) is much less than
50 p.c. of the total American
production. The production-
capacity in the U.S.A. and
Canada on January 1 last was
over 2,500,000 short tons a
year, whilst additional capacity
is no undue health hazard in
the reduction - bays of a
properly-designed aluminium-
smelter, nor is there a high
labor turnover. In the long-
established smelters it is
common for labor to work in
the furnace-rooms for 30 or
more years, and live to enjoy
normal health in their retire-
ment.
L. Owen on 2BL
/'YN Saturday evening, August
3, at 7.15, Bulletin
petroleum authority L. Owen
will speak from Sydney over;
national station 2BL.
Mr. Owen’s subject will be
“Oil-finding in Australia,” and
in it he will discuss oil-occur-
rence on this continent, particu-
larly in the Carnarvon Basin
of W.A., which he considers
to be the best prospect on the
mainland, but of an abnormal
type, like all other oil-prospects
in Australia.


- ~
o
u
Our first was a girl . . ,
We knew that three people couldn’t live as
cheaply as two, so we decided to plan our
expenditure and live on a budget. As part
of our plan we opened an A.N.Z. Cheque
Account* in order to keep better control of
our money. Later we opened a Savings
Account for young Mary, and she now has
quite a nest egg.
It’s surprising what a difference it makes if
you manage your money and don’t let it
manage you.
* Our free booklet, 44 Bank Accounts for Every -
one” is now available at all A.N.Z . Bank
branches. Ask for your copy.
A*N*Z
w
A.N.Z. BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED —Cheque Accounts
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LlMlTED— Sayings Accounts
■
! ANZ4O6. Ii
Mr. Owen believes the waxy
material struck in Rough
Range No. 1 well to be part
of a fossil seep that was- once
on the surface of the earth but
later submerged under the sea,
silted - over to a depth of
several thousand feet, then
.shoved-up from the seabed to
form dry land at least twice
again in geological history.
Mr. Owen’s talk over the
A.B.C. network will form part
of “Science Commentary,” and
will occupy about 10 minutes.
Lament for Deposit-banking
[From George F. Davidson]
/THREAT benefits were con-
ferred on the business
world by deposit - banking,
which flourished for more than
a century. It made money
available at low rates of interest
by lending other people's
money. It mobilised spare
funds of the multitude by pro-
viding a safe refuge for
capital. Security was of prime
importance. Only banks could
solicit deposits from the public,
and they had to lodge
guarantees with the authorities
so as to protect the depositors’
interests.
The banks, entrusted with idle
money, lent it out at about 6
p.c. to credit-worthy borrowers.
As there were always more
borrowers than the available
cash would satisfy, it Would
have been easy to charge higher
rates of interest, but trading-
banks always made a point of
putting safety above profits.
They were very careful of the
deposits entrusted to them, and
knew that their future depended
on being able to withstand an
economic blizzard, on being
able to pay back to the
depositors their cash which
would be wanted most at the
most embarrassing moment.
Now, apparently, anybody,
even limited companies, can
invite the public to entrust
deposits to them without giving
guarantees that the money will
be jealously guarded. Rates of
interest as high as 10 p.c.,
12| p.c., and even 15 p.c. p.a.
have been quoted, although the
legitimate banks are not per-
mitted to pay more than p.c.
Nor is this all: after the
banks have attracted the savings
of their depositors, the Com-
monwealth Bank reaches out
into the .till and grabs a large
amount under the pretext of
safeguarding the interests of the
public. These are called
“special accounts,” and have
exceeded a third of trading
banks’ deposits: they were only
started here in 1940, and they
have not been adopted in Eng-
land nor in Scotland, whose
banking practice was followed
here when banking began in
1817.
High rates of interest date
from 1951, when the Treasurer
exercised his option to convert
a lot of Commonwealth loans
from 4 p.c. to 3| p.c., the
ruling rate which the Govern-
ment had inherited. This action
so irritated those handling
large sums that a drive for
higher interest supervened and,
today, the Government has to
pay 5 p.c. p.a.
High rates of interest are bad
for a country: they batten on
production, both primary and
secondary. They reduce the
value of assets. For example,
the public subscribed for £ls
million of 4 p.c. preference
shares in a first-class company
in 1948, and their market-value
today is 125., which means that
half -a - million pounds has
vanished from the realisable
assets of investors.
Deposit-banking was attacked
in 1940 from inside by snatch-
ing at the deposits which had
been collected, and, since
1951, competition for deposits
outside the banks has been
allowed to run riot: the public
has been left exposed.
The “squeeze” being applied
to deposit-banking is a matter
for the deepest regret.
Still More Questions
* [From t. Owen]
TCfIORE queries have reached
me during the past fort-
night. They deal with many
areas.
I’ll begin with Papua.
A Queensland correspondent
says:— “You have not dealt
with the significance of the
heavy gas-pressure encountered
in the Barikewa well, and 1
would like your opinion.”
The press-release, with
reference to Barikewa, stated
that gas under considerable
pressure had been encountered
at 6310 ft. An attempt was
being made to control that
pressure with heavy mud, and
it was not proposed to test the
gas at that stage. A later
release announced that the
drill-pipe stuck during the
attempt to control the pressure
and that it could not be freed.
The hole was being sidetracked
from 5295 ft.
In view of the fact that
Barikewa is less than 40 miles
west of Kuru where high-
pressure “wet” gas was struck
some time ago—it is probable
that the Barikewa gas is also
“wet”; but that is conjecture,
and I prefer to defer comment
until more is known as to its
composition. I will, however,
go as far as to say that, on the
face of it, the news is favorable
to the prospects in western
Papua.
* * *
Another Queenslander:
“In many of your articles you
have given the advice to ‘go
west’ in the search for oil, both
in Papua and on the mainland.
This does not tally with the
intention of Papuan Apinaipi
(with whom I understand you
are connected) to drill near the
eastern boundary of its permit
after stating that it would test
the Lakekamu Embayment.”


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FiRE,
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
branches and Agencies throuyhoiil
the World.
KUV mom SATE!
SANDERS#
tfj^eFILES
Correspondence, invoices.
, ;
statements, etc..
"Sanders'* can
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —Of
any other period.
IW » «h.
Prices end fur •
th*r IntttiNiatio*
upon eppiiceiioa
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Ageutt —
MCLBOURNI » ■ g 9 Norman Bros. Fly. Lt 4
ADELAIDK f t g Var4on Prlco U 4,
PERTH . % | « Docket Book Cu. (Aunt.)
Let me make it quite clear,
first of all, that I am in no
way connected with the Papuan
Apinaipi Petroleum Co. My
work for it terminated with the
location of the first major well
(Oiapu No. 1) which was
spudded-in after 1 had left the
company's employ and which
was lost some thousands of
feet above the point at which
1 anticipated production. At
that time the co.'s permit did
not extend further east than
Cape Possession nor as far
west as the Lakekamu Embay-
ment, so that neither Kaufana
nor Lakekamu could be con-
sidered for test-locations.
Outside the old Permit No. 6
there was, however, abundant
outcrop evidence for recon-
structing the geological history
of the area east of Yule Island.
In my opinion, that reconstruc-
tion is not favorable to its oil-
prospects. A well at Oroi
produced only gas and salt-
water. It represented Aus-
tralasian Petroleum's first and
last test of this eastern area.
The Kaufana structure is a fold
sub-parallel to that at Oroi, and
possibly in echelon with it. The
major axis at Kaufana runs
along a line less than 40 miles
n.-e. of the corresponding axis
at Oroi.
* * *
Several people—mostly Vic-
torians have written with
reference to the prospects of
the Headley well in Gippsland.
Here again the published
information in the press-
releases is scanty. No details
have been given as to the
exact composition of the oil
encountered in shows in the
several Woodside wells. I
doubt whether analyses have
ever been made with the
specific object of determining
the direction along which the
oil has migrated, and I doubt
if the geological history of the
area has been interpreted in the
detail necessary in the search
for petroleum.
This answers another inquirer
—this time from Norfolk
Island —who wants my opinion
as to the prospects of offshore
drilling in the Wood side
permits. 1 would point out,
in addition, that offshore drill-
ing is an expensive operation
which is justified only when
indications are very favorable.
The writer asks where he can
obtain a copy of The Oilfields
of Britain (B. 26/6/’57). It may
be out of print, but I would
suggest an inquiry to The
Public Relations Officer,
C.0.R., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
* * *
A Westralian takes me to
task. He says:— “You June
claimed, over and over again,
that the Birdrong sandstone
cannot produce commercial oil.
Why is it then that Wapet, with
its large and experienced tech-
nical staff, and its superb field
equipment, is now preparing to
drill to this horizon at Yanrey,
35 miles north-cast of Rough
Range?”
1 have never claimed that
“the Birdrong sandstone cannot
produce commercial oil.” What
1 have tried to point out is that
it is extremely unlikely that the
unusual combination of geo-
logical conditions, which
resulted in the non-commercial
Rough Range strike, will be
encountered again unless the
well-siting technique employed
is specifically adapted to that
end. I have also expressed the
opinion that the main reservoir-
bed should be looked for in
beds older than the Cretaceous,
of which Birdrong is the basal
member in the Carnarvon
Basin. Owing to the use of a
T-32 rig, I assume (as does my
critic) that the Birdrong horizon
w'as the target for the Yanrey
well, but that well has now
resulted in a dry hole without
encountering that sandstone.
* * *
A Queenslander also takes
me to task. “Why,” he asks,
“are you critical of Arcadia
No. 7 well ? The many text-
books on oil which / have read
all suggest that oil is found
down-flank from gas.”
My reply is that the Arcadia
structure is not “textbook”
and should not be treated as
such—nor, for that matter,
should any structure so far-
tested on the Australian main-
land. In any case, the composi-
tion of the Arcadia gas should
have engendered caution. Since
this correspondent wrote to me ;
Arcadia 7 has given its own
answer.
I end with one “doodle-bug”
and one general query. The
first describes the successful
tracing of lost water-pipes
“buried up to 3ft. deep”- b>
means of a “3ft. length of iron
wire bent in the centre at right-
angles,” after other attempts
had failed.
Some years ago, T took pait
in the testing of “dowsers’
under scientific control. Aftei
eliminating the obvious
charlatans, it was found that
the degree of success obtained
by the others was the same as
that attained by random
location. In the case quotee
by this correspondent, I would
suggest that the subconscious
fas it undoubtedly is with honest
diviners) reaction to the iron
wire, copper wire, steel spring,
green twig or what-have-you,
was caused by a slight
difference in the “feel” of the
earth., where it had been dis-
turbed to lay the pipe.
The general query is from
“a bush bloke, with no finance,
trying to develop 3000 acres of
scrub land” on which two oil-
seepages were observed after
heavy summer rains. He wants
to know how he can go about
benefiting both Australia and
himself by striking commercial
petroleum.
My advice is to do nothing,
except to report the occurrence
to the Department of Mines, if
he has not already done so. A
plot of under 5 square miles in
area would not justify the
heavy preliminary expenses of
proper examination by a
competent petroleum-geologist.
Quite apart from that, there are
so many slips between seepage
and profitable exploitation
even under very favorable con-
ditions—that it is no game for
the small man.
Cement Shares Rise Again
"PUBLICITY given to the
■*- cement industry's high
activity at the present time,
including some news-items
over the national broadcasting-
stations, seems to have stimu-
lated interest in the shares of
Australian Cement on Mel-
bourne ’Change. They have
gone to 495., which is the
highest since the bonus-issue
of 1954.
The cement industry is cer-
tainly very busy just now, and
that is probably more obvious
to the eye in Melbourne than in
Sydney ; but to those who feel
that they should have an
interest in Melbourne’s high
building activity it is far
cheaper to buy shares in
Kandos Cement, which, with
Australian Cement, has a half-
interest in Australian Portland
Cement Pty., the company pro-
ducing nearly all Victoria’s
cement, as well as owning the
largest cement-plant in N.S.W.
When Australian Cement £1
shares touched 495. Kandos £1
scrip was available at 445. 6d,.
Each co. is almost identical in
capital, profits and dividends.
Assets also are almost identical.
Kodak (Aust.) Pty.
FODAK AUST.) PTY.,
v LTD., has emerged surpris-
ingly—since the shares are not
listed on ’Change—as one of
the biggest industrial under-
takings in the nation with the
announcement'of the building
of an £S-mi!lion factory at
East Coburg, Melbourne. Work
has already begun.
The business was begun in
Australia more than 70 years
ago by John J. Rouse, father
of the current chairman of
directors, Edgar Rouse, with
Thomas Baker, another famous
name in the photographic-
materials business in Australia ;
and in 1908 they amalgamated
their business in Australia with
the Eastman Kodak Co., of
U.S.A.
Australian shareholders kept
49.9 p.c. of the capital, and, 49
years later, still maintain most
of their interest.
June 30 Accounts
/~\NLY a few trading results
for the 1956-57 financial
year have so far been published,
and then only profit figures,
with the div.-rate. These early
figures have been good. But in
no case have they been a real
guide to what the general
experience of companies is
likely to be.
The sharemarket awaits
results from a selection of the
rest from something like a
price-peak of anticipation.
The chosen selection are
certainly at a buoyant level,
and will need results to justify
them.


“Shoo! Doncherknow , I'm a lepidopterist , not an arachnologist."


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATER
'MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Joan Hammond
In her curtain-speech on the
opening night of the 1957 Eliza-
bethan Trust Operas in Bris-
bane, Joan Hammond said the
night had been a memorable
one for her, because it was
the first time since her departure
twenty-one years ago that she
had sung in an opera in Aus-
tralia.
Of this “Tosca” almost
total praise. Miss Hammond
is at the height of her operatic
powers, and how different these
appear in a total role, in con-
trast to the “aria with orchestra”
policy of the past. In a good
performance, such as in this
opera, it is not so much how
she sings “Love and Music,” or
how Ronald Dowd presents
“The stars were brightly
shining”; it is the attention
given to the whole sweep of the
work, the enactment of every
reply to Scarpia, the jealous
glances made to Mario in the
Chapel scene.
In some ways, Puccini is the
most effective writer of operas
yet. There is no waste, in the
Wagnerian manner, no static
quality, as in some of Mozart,
and certainly in “Fidelio.”
Perhaps it is a trick that he
establishes always off-stage the
vocal character of the heroine
(Tosca sings her imperious
“Mario! Mario!”, Mimi’s timid
inquiry, Butterfly’s “There is
yet one step to climb”). Weil
sung, and we love the heroine
before she even appears! And
so it was with Miss Hammond.
She moved gracefully into the
church in the first scene con-
scious of her role of Floria
Tosca, the operatic star par
excellence. Perhaps, by theatre
standards, Miss Hammond is an
“obvious” actress; but, then,
so is the role. The subtleties
of character are in the music ;
fussiness of movement only
obscures them. Miss Ham-
mond’s voice has often
appeared cold on recordings ;
the living presence in the role
belies the very suggestion.
In addition to her technical
excellence and her sense of
authority there is the true
capacity to characterise a wide
range of passions in her sing-
ing—the quality that has made
more than one Australian
soprano great in opera, whereas
their English sisters, purer
perhaps, and more controlled,
are happier in oratorio. The
enchantment of that first
moment never died throughout
the whole of the opera. Ex-
cellent in their own right,
Ronald Dowd and John Shaw
were caught up in it, and it
was left to the orchestra to
break the spell on several
occasions ; the singers never
faltered.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“The Relapse”
Although Sir John Van-
brugh’s Lord Foppington, his
Sir Tunbelly Clumsey, his
Syringe the surgeon, his rakes,
naughty ladies and match-
makers are grotesque carica-
tures, there is an underlying
basis of shrewd if not deep
observation in them.
Wherefore it was somewhat
unfortunate that the Eliza-
bethan Trust company played
the piece as they did at Mel-
bourne Comedy, because they
did not bring this out. They
tried to go one better than Sir
John by caricaturing his
caricatures out of all resembl-
ance. Paul Rogers made Lord
Foppington’s foppishness so
obvious that nothing was left
to the imagination, and Joan
Bray loosened-up Berenthia’s
looseness so thoroughly that
she fell to pieces as a human-
being.
One of the few characters
who did hold together was the
Miss Hoyden of Zoe Caldwell.
The rest, both menial and
gentry, jigged, danced, jumped,
pranced, posed and gesticu-
lated like inmates of a lunatic
asylum, and were so over-
dressed, in wigs a yard long,
that if producerJßobin Lovejoy
had wanted to suffuse poor Sir
John’s play with arty-crafty
boredom he couldn’t have gone
a better way about it.
Shaw and Sartre
Somewhat ambitiously for
relatively inexperienced players,
the Tin Alleys put on Shaw
and Sartre in the one night
at Melbourne University’s
Union Theatre. “Passion,
Poison and Petrifaction” was
just a Shavian burlesque, no
doubt tossed off before break-
fast by the playwright. Shaw
is said to have apologised for
it, and the players appeared to
have accepted his judgment and
acted in the same spirit.
The Sartre play, “In Camera”
(sometimes translated as
“Vicious Circle” or “No Exit”),
was a horse of another color.
It made one listener feel that
his numerous weekly trips to
the Union had been repaid
The play seemed good, which
means interesting, gripping him
from first to last; and the
actors must have been good,
too, for at no time did they
get in the way of the play and
only rarely were obviously
actors.
Also, it seemed to tet in some
light on Sartre’s Existentialism,
though that may have been
wish-fulfilment. The play is in
one act, the scene is a drawing-
room in Hell, there are four
characters, and away she goes.
One, a valet, serves to introduce
the players and make a few
explanations, reassuring the
others that there is no torture,
fire or brimstone in Hell, nor
any of the other accepted
trappings. He makes the point,
however, that there are no
mirrors, no windows, no time
and no sleep—in short, no
means of escape whatever. It
is, in fact, like life, in which
any activity is rendered
endurable by the pauses, as
when one blinks one’s eyes.
The three other characters
are Garcin, a newspaperman
in some subversive political
party, who has attempted io
escape his fate by bolting ;
Inez Serrano, a young, mascu-
line, obviously lesbian woman,
who has attempted to gain
power over another woman by
poisoning her husband. The
third is Estelle Rigault, a
pretty, blonde, good-time girl
obsessed with using her sexual
charms to gain power over
young men. She killed her
baby in sight of its father
because he was too poor to be
worth running off with and
she already had an old but
wealthy husband.
They all meet their deaths in
various untidy fashions, and
here they are all compelled to
live together, locked in the
same room for all eternity;
Inez wanting the blonde, the
blonde wanting Garcin, and
Garcin not knowing exactly
what he wants, and all united
in one common desire to pre-
vent the others getting what
they want. Which fact leads
to Garcin’s outburst: “Hell
is . . . other people.”
There was little or no light
relief in the grim picture—a
pretty down -to - earth love
scene, that’s all. John Kil-
martin, Marcel Cugola, Joan
Baker and Cynthia Ewing were
the four performers.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
“Under Milk Wood”
The strange wit, the bitter
humor and the sharp if some-
what. shallow observation of
Dylan Thomas came out to a
remarkable degree in Mel-
bourne Little Theatre’s presen-
tation of “Under Milk Wood.”
This was more because of Irene
Mitchell’s astute production
than because of the acting of
the enormous cast of over 60
people who did just what they
were told on a stage so
cluttered up with bits of school-
masters’ studies, parsons’ ves-
tries, village locals, ghosts of
dead ships and mobile plat-
forms all on the move at the
same time that it was easy
for a spectator to imagine he
was gazing down on the Joli-
mont railway-yards at peak
time.
Thomas’s technique is
Thomas’s own. He uses an
Onlooker who strolls casually
about mouthing Dylan's allu-
sive poetry couched in Dylan’s
extraordinarily suggestive
language in which words only
have an associational relation
to one another and no relation
at all in terms of grammar. It
was as if a drunken man
relieved the tedium of a railway
journey by making audible
comments on the fancies and
foibles, hopes and despairs,
bawdiness and delinquencies of
his fellow-travellers in the
compartment.
In this case the compartment
is the Welsh village of Milk
Wood, with its blind sea-
Captain dreaming of drowned
shipmates ; its town bike, Polly
Garter, dreaming of past
lovers while lethargically
following her profession ; the
twice-widowed Mrs. Ogmore-
Pritchard dreaming of her two
husbands and their various
ways of folding their pyjamas ;
Mr, Pugh, the schoolmaster,
who studies the lives of the
great wife-poisoners and casts
poisoned looks at his own wife ;
the Rev. Eli Jenkins, who
thinks everything is for the


A.P.M. CONVERTS WASTE PAPER INTO HIGH-GRADE PAPERBOARD No. 9 of a series.
No doubt you’ve often wondered where all
the collected waste paper finishes up. Much of
it finds its way into these huge hydrapulpers
used for pulp-making by A.P.M.—Australian
Paper Manufacturers Ltd. What happens is
this. The waste paper is fed into a huge bowl
of water by a conveyor. Here it is whirled
around by an impeller (not unlike a kitchen
mixer) mechanically cleaned and slushed into
pulp against raised, curved ribs at the bottom
of the bowl. The pulp itself is used in the
manufacture of paperboard.*
A.P.M. processes more than 100,000 tons
mmm
, ' ft - :
Si:;
/■*
? : i
H
■
&igB
sPil
' :
*:
mmi
mmm
WiMiMii
A giant mixer puts waste to work!
of waste paper in this way annually. Much of
this is obtained from Hospitals and Charities
Appeals Organizations which benefit to the
order of at least £45,000 every year. A.P.M.,
Australia's largest manufacturer of wrapping
papers and paperboards, by efficient and econ-
omical operations, puts waste to work in the
manufacture of paperboards for Australia’s
packaging industry.
*The term “paperboard ” embraces cardboard,
jibreboard and other heavyweight papers. Basi-
cally the same raw materials are used for
paperboard and paper.
i* Gif
Bmj Australian Made
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Aikman Street, South Melbourne
Mills at Melbourne, Fairfield, Maryvale, Broadford in Victoria,
Botany, N.S.W.; Petrie, Queensland; and Bayswater, W.A.


best in the best of all
possible worlds and whose
passing comment on the
bawdy, songs of Polly Garter
is “Praise the Lord! We are
a musical nation”; the fisher-
men who look sadly at the sky
which portends no fishing and
drift sadly-glad off to the local ;
Organ Morgan, who goes to
chapel to play the organ and
sees Sebastian Bach lying on a
tombstone ; and Mae Rose
Cottage, who, at 17, lies all day
and every day under a tree
completely immobilised from
any action by her voluptuous
dreamings of lovers who never
will be.
In short, it is any village any-
where in Christendom and very
like the village in which the
present commentator is writing
his ill-considered comments on
the Little Theatre production,
which was really splendid ; Brin
Newton John, who maintained
a continuous flow of Tammas’s
verbal music from curtain-rise
to slow-down finish, being
particularly impressive.
M.G. S.
Fantastic Symphony
[From London]
Fresh from spectacular
triumphs in six European
cities, the Stratford-on-Avon
Company has now reached the
Stoll Theatre. It is a matter
for astonishment as well as for
congratulation that the play,
attributed by scholars only
partly to Shakspeare, is the
abominable, grisly “Titus An-
dronicus.” Rumor, going
before, whispered that people
had fainted in the aisles as the
successive horrors progressed,
that the squeamish should stay
away and that the success was
due to notoriety.
Rumor, proverbially and
demonstrably, is proved to be
the opposite of the truth.
What, in effect, Peter Brook
has done is to elevate, by his
thoroughly artful production,
a theatrical monstrosity into a
poignant tragedy. And the
marvel is that one leaves the
theatre with the same cathartic
intellectual repose as emerges
from high Greek tragedy. Just
as, for example, Beecham can
invest some musical trifle with
sublimity, so can Brook endow
this penny-dreadful with liter-
ary depth.
There is no blood, no
thunder. Titus loses his hand
with no more than a heavy thud
as the weapon strikes the
ground. Lavinia, ravished into
demented apathy, is a veiled
and shrouded lay-figure. There
are no depraved voluptuous
gloatings, no transpontine
death-writhings.
terisation is lightly sketched
(though the declamation is
not), and the production not
only has a varied, consistent
rhythm but a very firm pattern
as well.
Laurence Olivier is superbly
dramatic, yet always appears
to have in reserve more than
he gives out; lie plays Titus
as an older man than is usual
and, in the early scenes, with a
nervous, anxious restlessness
but he grows quieter and more
poetic as the play mounts to its
gruesome, cannibalistic climax.
The brilliant cast is never out
of tune. Noteworthy are
Vivien Leigh’s neutral but
touching Lavinia, Maxine
Audley’s classically tempered
Tamora, Alan Webb’s sympa-
thetic, chorus-like Marcus,
Anthony Quayle’s flamboyant
yet not too double-dyed Moor,
and Frank Thring’s spacious
Saturninus, so quick and firm
to establish the solemn key-
signature of the play.
Peter Brook cunningly
underlines the evil of the
Goths, simulating the Romans
as innocent parties. This
approach and the carefully
studied vocal line, with its
evocative classicism and falling
cadences, are the secrets behind
the illusion. He also provides
the setting (stark and, in part,
bizarre) and background
musique concrete (weird and
spiky) of his own assembly.
❖ ❖ ❖
“King Lear”
Until Peter O’Shaughnessy
put it on the other evening at
the Arrow Theatre, nobody had
had the courage to do “King
Lear” in Melbourne since the
days of Allan Wilkie.
Wilkie did it in his usual
robustious manner; Mr.
O’Shaughnessy’s Lear was
much more subtle. He was
sufficiently restrained in his
lucid moments to make his
madness pathetically real, and
his wife’s Cordelia was fiercely
tender. The play’s bad-eggs,
Goneril, Regan, Edmund and
Cornwall, were well done by
Margaret Wolfit, Pamela
Greenall, Tim Burstall and
David Mitchell; the good eggs,
Gloucester, Edgar and Albany,
by Roy Leaney, Leslie Moxon
and Hugh McDermott; and in
the case of Kent, particularly
well done by Walter Brown.
In fact, the cast acted with
such energy and conviction that
the horrors, the brutalities and
the absurdities of the play
almost lived in places, even
when Cornwall removed and
squashed Gloucester’s eyes. Un-
fortunately, most of Shak-
speare’s poetry was sacrificed
The charac-to the ferocity of the action.
“As You Like It”
The Brisbane Arts Theatre
presents each year the “set”
Shakspeare for junior students.
Not content with repeating
their previous “As You Like
It,” the group decided to
present it in Wafteau style,
with Touchstone attired in
something like the . Gilles
costume. It seemed for a
moment that this Clown was
going to play far, far more
than was set down for him, but
he improved enormously as the
play proceeded and at times
was very near the heart of the
character. Some years ago
Leo McKern played this role
with the general appearance
of a circus clown. This
commentator prefers his Touch-
stone to be nearer the Court
Jester, as in the present
instance. On the natural
manner and prettiness of her
Celia, the Arts Theatre should
make more use of Rosalind
Seagrove.
V. V.
Artbursts
Art Society
As a sort of little brother
of the Royal Art Society, which
itself could do with a big
brother these days, the Aus-
tralian Art Society (at David
Jones’) must take a very modest
place among Sydney exhibi-
tions.
Here and there it provides
a glimmer of something sensi-
tive or promising: such as
Mary Brady’s “Morts Bay,” the
soft watercolors of Lionel
Taprell, a couple of small oils
by Harry Hibble ; but that is
about all. Byram Mansell’s
Centralian panel would make
effective posters and Garrett
Kingsley’s “The Model” would
be the best thing in the show if
the firm painting of the nude
were not offset by the sac-
charine flavor of the canvas as
a whole.
❖ *i*
Restoring Paintings
Picture-owners who are
bothered by moulds, fungi and
whatnot growing on their
paintings, as sometimes happens
in Sydney’s humid climate,
should be interested in the
N. S. Wales National Gallery’s
contribution to Education
Week (Aug. s—Aug. 9), which
will be a demonstration of the
techniques used by its Con-
servation Department in the
care of paintings.
Demonstrations, to be given
in the workshop daily by W.
Boustead and Jack McGeorge,
will include: investigation of
paintings by microscope and
ultra-violet light; stripping
canvases from supports ; re-
lining old canvases; surface-
cleaning of paintings; deep-
cleaning of paintings ; removal
of mould from canvas and
paper mounts; recording of
works by color- and black-and-
white photography ; use of a
specially designed vacuum -
press for transferring paintings
from canvas tb Masonite;
mount-cutting, framing and
fumigation of prints and
drawings.
Films
“Lisbon”
Here in an intrigue-drama
which he has directed and
assisted to produce, Ray
Mi 11 an d not surprisingly
appears as a hair-on-the-chest,
cravat-at-the-neck irresistible —-
an American captain of a
speedy launch used for running
contraband.
Therein he is involved in a
deal with Claude Rains, a
la-di-da Lisbon crook, who is
acting for Maureen O’Hara, a
supposedly beautiful American.
She is in Lisbon chasing-up a
husband much ' older than
herself, a professor (of no one
says what), jailed (no one says
where) for what is obviously
top-secret spy stuff (no one
says).
In the course of things Miss
O’Hara decides that she is
more inclined to her husband’s
25-million dollars than the prof,
himself, and tries to bend
Milland (with whom she is
head-over-heels) to her point
of view; he won’t have any.
For a million-dollar cut, Claude
Rains will, and arranges that the
lady become a widow during
the rescue of the professor—
unbeknowns to Mr. M.,
whose launch is being used as
the get-away boat. He, how-
ever, foils their conspiracy, and
returns the old man in one,
wholesome piece.
A happy ending is made
happier when Mi Hand
renounces his smuggling
activities and takes a beautiful
piece of woman-flesh from the
Rains household (Yvonne
Furneaux ; she has been drool-
ing over him for an hour-and-a-
half) for his wife. All this to
the strains of “Lisbon Antiqua”
and against the background of
a Naturama-colored Lisbon
makes for entertainment, if you
like it that way.
Hoyts circuit.


A MESSAGE TO EXECUTORS AND TRUSTEES
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
TUB HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
m.1.c., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
vicb-chairman;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. K. LYSAGHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. AHMYTAGE,
MANAGING DIRKCTOR.
W. S. MATTHEWS,
managrb.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) can be of assistance to you
YOU may find that you have been appointed as Executor
and Trustee of a Will without any knowledge of the
fact until the death of the Will-maker.
Before embarking on your onerous duties (or even after you
have started them), it may pay you to have an interview
with Perpetual Trustee, Co. Ltd., with a view to transferring
your responsibilities to the Company. This can be quite
simply arranged, and you will be immediately freed from
the irksome tasks which faced you.
Full information on the subject will be freely given on
application. Why not telephone 80377 and make an
appointment for the purpose? A Senior Officer will always
be available to interview you. If you prefer, ask that a
copy of the Company's help-
ful booklet, “Your Executor
and Trustee,” be posted free
to you.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, ete.
33.39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAM WORTH
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LTD.
INDUSTRY Horsn
national circuit
CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDI-
TION TO THOSE DIRECTORS
MENTIONED- .AT THE LEFT !
YYARKEN D. MeDONALD,
C.B.E.j VICE-CHAIRMAN
S. 0. McKAKLANE, O.M.G.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Tooth and Co., Ltd.
T AST year’s sharp increase in the excise-
duty on beer and the subsequent fall
in consumption had little apparent effect
on the net earnings claimed by Tooth’s
last term. The big Sydney brewer, along
with other brewers, increased its prices
to hotelkeepers in Sydney, Newcastle and
certain country areas in January of this
year.
Formed in 1888, to purchase a business
established 53 years earlier, Tooth’s is
one of the largest and strongest brewery
organisations in the Commonwealth,
owning something like a third of all
hotels in N.S.W. and enjoying the largest
individual share of the market in that
State.
Consumption of beer in Australia rose
from 89 million gallons in 1938-39 to
144 million gallons in 1948-49, reaching
233 million gallons in the twelve months
to June 30, ’56. To cope with the rapidly
growing demand, Tooth’s spent heavily
on new premises and plant, pushing up
the book-value of fixed assets by more
than 111 p.c. ( excluding revaluation
adjustments) in less than four years—
without any assistance from shareholders.
The last cash-issue was over 20 years ago.
More than half (£5,241,422) of
the £9,273,986 paid capital is
represented by bonus scrip, the
last bonus-issue, a generous one-for-
two handout in 1955, coming 26 years
after the previous gift, which had followed
the acquisition ot Resch’s, Ltd., in 1929.
The co. has never missed a div., the rate
averaging 13.3 p.c. for the 10
years to 1950. Dropped from 16 p.c.
to 1H p.c. after the one-for-two bonus,
the div. has since risen to 12£ p.c., with
last term’s final being calculated on a
12y p.c. p.a. basis.
In 1956 the accounting period was
changed, and the co. now balances in
March instead of September. The latest
accounts cover the first full term to end
on the new balance-date, there being only
six months in the preceding term.*
Turnover for the year is not revealed,
but the gross profit claimed by the co.,
£5,593,802, was down by £348,062 (p.a.),
when compared with the adjusted figure
for the previous year, after allowing
£731,599 for depreciation and making
“adequate provision” in respect of assets
“subject to fluctuation.” Despite the re-
imposition of land-tax and steep increases
in municipal rates, there was a compar-
able fall in expenses (£4,354,838, includ-
ing an unstated provision for taxation),
net profit at £1,238,964 representing an
increase of £242 p.c.: —=
Net . To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1952 " 952,775 15 p.c. = 927.399 t 15 37g 4 092,508
Employees’ fund, £10,004).. S
1953 1,013.739 15ip.c.= 958 312 K 4.137.935
Employees lund, £10,000.. )
Assets revaluation res,, £3,091,329 7,229,264
Unexplained additions, £3,987,390.. 11,216,654
1954..1,075,076 16 p e. = 989 225 | - 6 g5l U , 293.50s
Employees fund, £10,000.. )
Reserve capitalised, £3,091,329 .. 8,201,170
1955.-1,180,90911)p.c.=1,066,508 j 104(401 8,305,577
Employees fund, £lO,OOO .. )
1956* 619.361 12pe.= 506,439 1 57923 8,363,499
Employees lunds, £.>ooo .. )
1957 1,238,964 12]p.c,,l 136,064 ) 0 8,459,399
Employees tund, £ 10,000 .. )
* Six months only, div. at rate p.a.
The dividend was lifted from 12 p.c. to
12} p.c. with promise of a p.c. dis-
tribution in the current term, earnings
equalling 13.3 p.c. of paid capital, com-
pared with previous earning-rates of 13.3,
12.7, 17.3 and 16.4 p.c. back to 1953.
The heavy outlay on fixed assets con-
tinued last term and, apart from exten-
sions to plant and breweries, three hotel
freeholds were rebuilt and 11 major re-
modelling jobs completed. The net
growth in fixed assets (properties are
shown at, or under, cost or at valuation;
plant at cost less depreciation) was
£1,966,174;
, —Sept.— ~ , March. —^
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £0,273,886 £9,273,986 £9,273,086
Reserves .. 8,306,577 8,368,499 8,456,399
Overdraft ... 387,829 393,900 812,975
Creditors .. 4,965,428 5,668,693 6,136,727
employees’ fund 135,358 140,836 153,167
Final div. .. 556,439 556,439 579,624
£23,624,617 £24,397,353 £25,412,878
Freeholds and
plant .. 16,995,293 15,002,613 19,968,787
Stocks .. . 1,337,664 1,402,985 1,434,834
Debtors .. 2,306,812 3,424,866 3,508,838
Consols, cash,
etc. . . .. 2,984,848 1,566,889 500,419
£23,624,617 £24,397,353 £25,412,873
Holdings of cash and bonds were reduced
(down £987,265) to finance the capital
expenditure and the co. ended the year
owing the bank an extra £419,075 and
creditors an extra £468,034. There was a
further deterioration in the liquid posi-
tion, the amount by which current
liabilities exceeded current assets jumping
from £365,128 to £2,238,402 over the
term, but the actual position is not clear
as the accounts give no indication of the
provisions included with creditors nor the
nature of the liabilities aggregated under
that broad heading. However, much
“major work” on the breweries was com-
pleted last term and indications are that
further work now “contemplated” will
be spread over a number of years.
Book-values give the co.’s f.-p. £1 ords.
a net tangible backing of 38s. 3d. The
scrip at 48s. 6d. would return 5.2 p.c.
from a I2j p.c. div.
Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd. (Q.)
AFARM-development and plant-
modernisation scheme undertaken
over five years ago and higher home-
consumption and export prices combined
to help Fairymead set new records last
term for both production and profit.
Primarily a grower and miller of sugar-
cane, the Fairymead Sugar Co., Ltd., was
formed in 1912 to buy the Fairymead plan-
tation (established back in the ’eighties)
and other sugar interests in the Bundaberg
and Isis districts of Queensland. The co.
has since acquired (from the Malaita Co.,
in 1936) copra, cocoa and trading interests


in the Solomon Islands, as well as a
Hereford stud-farm in N.S.W.
Additional finance for the farm-
development scheme was sought in 1952,
250,000 £1 ords. being issued (one-for-
two) at a premium of 10s. to give the
co. a paid capital of £750,000, all in ords.
Dependent largely on the state of crops
and seasons, earnings have fluctuated
considerably, but, although frosts,
drought and low prices eliminated all
profit from growing and milling in 1951,
divs. paid ovef the last 10 years have
averaged 11.2 p.c.
The British Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement was extended for a year (to
1964) last term, and the negotiated price
for 1957 increased from £stg4o 15s. to
£stg42 3s. 4d. per ton. Australia’s quota,
at this price was reduced from 314,000
tons to 300,000 tons, but adjustments
under the International Sugar Agreement
lifted the total export-quota to 619,177
tons in 1956, and the higher figure will
apply in the current term. Last year
quota-deficiencies in other Commonwealth
countries enabled Australia to exceed her
export-quota by 54,952 tons. (Limits on
exports under the International Sugar
Agreement are suspended at the moment,
the agreement providing for this action
when world-prices rise above a certain
level. Prices have increased by as much
as 90 p.c. over the past twelve months.)
The world market-price for sugar rose
sharply last year, and, with higher local
prices, the overall average price for the
’56 season climbed by £4 4s. Id. to
£46 10s. 6d. a ton:
Home Overall
Season. Consumption. Export. Average.
1952 .. £44 3 P £4l 2 0 £42 12 3
1953 .. 47 18 6 39 18 0 42 711
1954 .. 47 1 0 38 16 6 41 4 9
1955 .. 46 18 0 39 1 0 42 6 5
1956 53 11 6 41 15 0 46 IP 6
After keeping mum on the subject for
years, the Fairymead board released what
it states are record production figures for
last term, the co. handling 316,514 tons
of cane to produce 38,200 tons of sugar.
Maximum capacity 10 years ago was
estimated at about 33,000 tons of raw
sugar, the mill quota remaining un-
changed at 37,500 tons since 1952.
Unfortunately the board's revelations
didn’t extend to the amount of the tax-
provision or the position of the subsidiary
cos. (save that the profit of one is in-
cluded to the extent of divs. received),
net profit for the,year to December 31
last being given as £201,318, a leap of
£69,663 or 52.9 p.c.:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
1951.. 11,547 8 p.c. = 40,000 781,913
Share premiums, £125,000 .. .. 906,913
Added replacement reserve, £36,432 . . 943,345
Insurance reserve, £2500 . . . . 945,845
1952.. 89,422 10 p.c. = 70,833 18,589 964,434
Added replacement reserve, £37,628.. 1,002,062
To insurance reserve, £2500 . . 1,004,562
1953.. 137,618 12 p.c. = 90,000 47,618 1,052,180
Added replacement reserve £51,316.. 1,103,496
To insurance reserve, £2500 . . . . 1,105,996
1954.. 185,018 14 p.c. = 105,000 80,018 1,186,014
Added replacement reserve, £37,224 .. 1,223,238
To insurance reserve, £415 .. .. 1,223,653
1955.. 131,655 12 p.c. = 90,000 41,655 1,265,308
Added replacement reserve, £ C 0,828 1,326,136
To insurance reserve, £1431 . . 1,327,567
1956.. 201,318 12 p.c. =: 90,000 111,318 1,438,885
* Includes replacement reserve, £623,059 at
31/12/’56.
The earnings were claimed after sending
£62,259 (up £24,620) to replacement and
insurance reserves and providing £60,276
(up £14,680) for depreciation and some-
thing for taxation. The div. was main-
tained at 12 p.c., taking less than half of
the profit, which equalled 26.8 p.c. of paid
capital compared with 17.6, 24.6, 18.3,
12.6 and 2.3 p.c. back to 1951.
Large reserves, conservatively valued
fixed assets (a partial revaluation added
£285,475 in 1949) and a run of reasonably
successful years have caused more than
one rumor of an impending bonus-issue:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Reserves .. .. 1,186,014 1,265,308 1,438,885
Creditors, etc.* .. 720,951 818,734 1,071,810
Final div. .. 60,000 45,000 45,000
£2,716,965 £2,879,042 £3,305,695
Estates .. .. 464,121 529,769 528,938
Factories, etc. . . 1,158,666 1,341,232 1,568,017
Shares in subsid. 5,300 .5,300 5,300
Livestock .. .. 54,173 57,682 63,737
Stocks, etc. .. 230,948 288,839 410,601
Book debts .. 796.070 648,682 718,614
Cash, etc. .. 7,687 7,538 10,488
£2,716,965 £2,879,042 £3,305,695
* Includes provision for taxation.
Rezoning of sugar-estates has involved
the construction of many miles of new
tram-lines, but this work, continued last
term, is expected to bring about “con-
siderable savings” in cane-freights in
future years. Capital-expenditure over
the year added a net £225,954 to fixed
assets, and with an extra £121,762 in
stocks and £69,932 in debtors, was
financed by retained earnings and the
addition of £253,076 to the amount owing
to creditors, etc.
Although prices are favorable the co.
will be fortunate to do as well in the
current term as it did last year, for,
despite recent falls of rain, drought con-
ditions in the Bundaberg area are
expected to result in heavy crop-reduc-
tions. A substantial dividend-equalisation
reserve is available, if needed, to main-
tain the div.-rate.
At balance-date each f.-p. £1 ord. was
supported by net tangible assets of
58s. 4d., the scrip at 495. 9d. returning 4.8
p.c. from a 12 p.c. div.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
T>ETTER wool prices and a bigger clip
13 meant more profit for Goldsbrough,
Mort and Co., Ltd., last term, the big co.
benefiting both as station-owner and
woolbroker. Activities as stock-and-
station agent, merchant and pastoral
financier also contributed to the 42.9 p.c,
improvement in earnings.
Developing from a business established
in 1848, Goldsbrough, Mort normally
handles well over 10 p.c. of the Australian
wool-clip, operating (through more than
150 country branches) in all States except
Tasmania.
As earnings tend to fluctuate with the
fortunes of the woolgrower the board has,
in recent years, followed a rather cautious
dividend-policy, giving the co. consider-
able protection, in the form of reserves,
against the effects of adverse seasons and
low prices. Since 1950 the amount by
which a div. has exceeded 7 p.c. has been
termed a bonus, total divs. over the last
decade of good seasons averaging 10.5
p.c. p.a.
With bank-credit scarce many clients
have turned to the co. for funds to finance
higher production or capital-expenditure,
and advances, etc., have increased by
almost 80 p.c. since the end of the ’.53-54
term. To help meet this increased demand
for funds and to assist in financing its
own expansion programme the co.
offered shareholders 800,000 £1 ords. at
par (one-for-five) early in the current
term, paid capital rising to £4,800,000, all
in ords. A previous request for fresh
capital, in 1953, involved the issue of
800,000 ords. at a 25 p.c. premium.
Last term (to March 31) 566,000 bales
of wool (up 61,000 bales) were received
into store and a record 567,610 (up
95,426) bales sold, average price per
pound of greasy (for nine months to the
end of the term) rising from 60.5 d. to
80.5 d. The clip from the co.'s own
stations was up by 27 p.c. (although in
some cases it represented well over 12
months’ growth) and brought “much
better” prices. The value of land sold
declined, but a greater quantity (and
value) of sheep and cattle was handled
and merchandise sales improved, so that
overall turnover exceeded £104,000,000
(up approximately £20,000,000) and gross
profit rose by £992,189 to £5,182,291.
Labor and supplies cost more during
the term, and land-tax was reintroduced
in N.S.W., but the greater volume of
business was responsible for a large part
of the increase in expenses and, despite
a drop of £65,868 (to £61,566) in invest-
ment income, net earnings jumped by
£237,442 to £743,470 after providing an
extra £210,000 for taxation (£660,000) and
£335,849 (up £28,615) for depreciation.
Capital profits, mainly from the sale of
properties in Sydney and Melbourne,
amounted to a further £96,507:
Net
Mar., Earnings. f Dividend Reserves.
£ ■ £ £
(Goodwill written off, £19,786 ]
1952 . . 457,094 10 p.c.— 320,000 j 2,497,422
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Goodwill written off, £3OOO .. ]
1953 . . 609,061 10 p.c: = 320,000 [ 2,763,483
Special grant staff fund, £20,000 J
Share premiums, £200,000 .. .. 2,963,483
Tax overprovided, £141,195 .. . . 3,104,678
Interest arrears, recovered, £24,784.. 3,129,462
Goodwill written off, £34,661 1
1954 .. 764,259 12 p.c. = 456,000 j- 3,377,060
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 J
Goodwill written off, £25,752
1955 .. 674,297 10 p.c. = 400,000 J- 3,599,005
Special grant staff fund, £26,000.. J
Goodwill written off, £ISOO
1956 .. 506,028 8 p.c. = 320,000 f 3,765,089
Special grant staff fund, £26,000 J
Capital profits, £96,507 ~ . . 3,862,196
Tax overprovided, £2222 .. .. 3,864,418
Goodwill written off, £12,539 ]
1957 .. 743,470 10 p.c. = 400,000 ) 4,163,349
Special grant staff fund, £32,000 J
The div., lifted from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c.,
required an additional £BO,OOO, but this
was easily found, earnings representing a
return of 18.5 p.c. on share-capital,
against the previous term’s 12.7 p.c. and
16.8, 20.1 and 19 p.c. back to 1953.
Rapid expansion over the past few
years has added over 50 p.c. to the book-
value of assets, the biggest increase being
in advances, etc., which last term grew


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription ~ 22/6
GENERAL CREDITS Ltd.
Helps you expand your income with 1
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
5
SHORT
TERM
Interest paid quarterly free of exchange.
Cumulative stock carrying 6| % compounded
on yearly rests with currencies of 5 to 15
years. Prospectus available all branches of
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited.
Members of Stock Exchanges and Offices of
the company.
LONG
TERM
DIRECTORS: _
Eric Hughes (Chairman), V. H. Stanley-Low
(Managing), J. F. Hughes, J. M. Ford,
F. G. Menzies, C.8.E., H. F. Clarke.
J. B. WIRE & SON
fc* ps
y«.P> pS
6
51%
.10
o
Bankers for the issue :
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF
, AUSTRALIA LIMITED
This is not a Prospectus and does not
constitute an invitation to subscribe for
the debenture stock mentioned herein.
7294
bv £896,235 to account for 62.2
p.c. of the value of all assets:
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Share applica-
tions ... 308,042
Reserves .. 3,765,689 4,163,349
Mortgage. ... 1,009,041 1,493,562
Creditors } 9.510,555 9,960,023
Tax provision 1,002,644 1,148,826
Final divs. .. 200,000 280,000
£19,487,929 £21,353,807
Freeholds, etc, 3,030,125 3,325,353
Plant .. 782,091 909,649
Stocks .. 751,951 888,458
Shares, Fenwick
and Co. . . 73,536 73,536
Shares other cos. 67,843 72,358
Advances, etc. 12,404 t 774 13,301,009
Cash, bonds, etc. 2,377,609 2,783,444
£19,487,929 £21,353,807
Three small businesses (all in
N.S.W.) were acquired last
term and six new branches were
opened, while extensions to
Melbourne and Fremantle
wool-stores were completed and
considerable progress made
with alterations to Sydney and
Melbourne offices. The net
addition to fixed assets, shown
at a conservative “cost, less
amounts written off,” was
£422,786. Although, as men-
tioned earlier, the co. sought
.additional capital in the current
term, at balance-date it held
£2,783,444 (up £405,835) in
cash, bonds, deposits, etc.
Wool prices tended to weaken
towards the end of last season,
but the outlook for the current
term is favorable and, although
rain is still needed in some
areas, the production of wool
is expected to exceed last year’s
record figure.
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net
tangible backing of 375. 6d.
and at 355. 4d. would return
5.6 p.c. from a 10 p.c. div.
Motors, Ltd.
conjecture
about possible concessions
from the forthcoming Federal
Budget, not surprisingly, got
little encouragement from Sir
Arthur Fadden recently.
The lift in sales-tax rates last
year was a setback from which
the industry never fully
recovered, and, together with
the shortage of money for
things like motor-cars and the
progress made by several
manufacturers in increasing the
size of their Australian
factories, it has all contributed
tc making competition within
the industry its most intense
since pre-war days.
Last year, in the process of
sharing-up a smaller market,
British Motor Corporation,
along with other manu-
facturers, lost ground to
General Motors-Holden and
Volkswagen, though in total
sales B.M.C. still holds second
place But for import-restric-
tions some of the British
group’s vehicles might have
fared better than they did.
According to this South
Australian distributor, business
of the subsidiary (Kingsway,
Ltd.), handling Wolseley and
Riley cars and Nuffield Uni-
versal tractors, almost ceased
on that account. The co.’s
chief function now is as whole-
sale buyer for the parent. It
has the S.A. and Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) agencies for jM.G.,
Rolls-Royce, Bentley and
Hudson cars and Electrice
refrigerators, but the mainstay
of the business is the Morris
fianchise (cars and commercial
vehicles).
New models of the Morris
Minor and Oxford sedans
introduced earlier this year
have been popular, and a
report that B.M.C.’s all-Aus-
tralian car is now in sight
augurs of better things in the
future. An intensification of
sales efforts lately is said to
have shown heartening results.
As for last term, gross profit
fell, though just how much
isn’t clear because accounts
were presented differently,
£9254 was charged to deprecia-
tion and £13,500 (down £9100)
set aside for taxation:
Re-
April, Profit. t ; —-Dividends — serves.
£ £ £
1953.. 67,081 30 p.e.=30,000 ]
To staff fund, £2500 ... j 264,238
t . Other provisions, £250 ..J
Profit sale assets, £3981 268,219
1954.. 75,574 30 p.c.=30,000 ) „ ns ~Q „
To staff fund, £5400 .. )
’tax un derp rovid’ed,
£28,519 .. ..279,874
1955.. 85,187 32i p.c.=32,500 {
To staff fund, £13,022 . . ( ' jiy >»> J 9
1956.. 55,981 25 p.e.=31,667 t
To staff fund, £2500 ..j 641,603
1957.. 21,568 15 p.c.=21,000 341,921
The £21,568 profit that
remained was 15.4 p.c. on
capital as against 40 p.c., 85.2
p.e., 75.6 p.c., and 67 p.c. back
to 1953. The latest figure
apparently includes a profit on
the sale of two properties at
Mt. Gambier. To keep the div.
within declared earnings the
rate (15 p.c.) was dropped 10
p.c. and the staff fund passed
over.
It was nothing more than
the sharemarket had already
anticipated, and the ss. scrip
has held at around 10s. 6d. On
a. 15 p.c. div. basis the return
at that price is 7.1 p.c.
There was some reorganisa-
tion during the year. To
separate the used-car section of
the business from the other
activities a lease was taken of
premises next-door to the
Flinders Street building and a
vacant block of land rented at
Medindie on the busy Main
North Road. The replacement-
parts division moved to Brown
Street. Recently additions to
the Kadina branch were com-
pleted and arrangements made
to open a new sales-office at
Naracoorte, which will cover a


INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDNER PTY. LTD. (Est. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
16 Spring Street, SYDNEY - BU 3145
108 Queen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
iarge part of Jhe State’s south-
east: —
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £140,000 £140,000
Reserves .. 341,353 341,921
Overdraft .. 70,189
Creditors and
deposits .. 92,492 53,194
Tax provision .. 58,100 14,426
Other provisions 6,134 3,153^
Staff funds, etc. 2,500
Final diVs. .. 17,500 10,500
£658,139 £633,383
Land, buildings 225,435 236,261
Plant *. . .. 36,285 62,791
Shares subsid... 30,766 57,631
Stocks, etc. .. 248,258 187,800
Debtors .. 92,955 88,900
Cash .. .. 24,440
£658,139 £633,383
Io finance the outlay on fixed
assets and the purchase of out-
side shareholdings in Kings-
way, Ltd., and reduce creditors
by £39,298, the co. drew on
all its own cash, and went to
the bank for another £70,189.
Liquidation of stocks (down
£60,458) and book-debts (down
£4055) took care of the rest.
At the end of the year
borrowed money amounted
to only ss. Id. for each £ of
Motors’ shareholders’ money
(capital and reserves) at risk in
the business.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
/"ARD.-SHAREHOLDERS of
Caledonian Collieries
ultimately got back into the
picture last term with a divi-
dend of 10 p.c., their first in
28 years.
Helped by the policy of the
Joint Coal Board in , establish-
ing profit-margins _ and the
extension of certain taxation
benefits to coalowners, net
earnings began to take a strong
upward turn in 1951, but,
before the ords. could share in
the benefits, the co. had to clear
away the balance of pref.-div.
arrears extending back to 1937.
That was done at the rate of
5 p.c. to the end of 1952, and,
Ujpon the rescission of the
Interest Reduction Act, at a
full 6 p.c. thereafter. Payment
of 10 p.c. to the ords. in 1956
didn’t call for anything extra
on pref. shareholders’ account
since their rights to participate
in up to an extra two points
with the ordinaries don’t apply
unless the ords. have at first
averaged 6 p.c. since the co.’s
incorporation in 1913. In the
circumstances, that is a condi-
tion which isn’t likely to be
satisfied for many years yet.
Competition from oil and
other fuels was noticeably
stronger last year, the steel-
making and power-generating
industries, which have provided
the major expanding coal-
market, used much the same
quantity of coal with greater
efficiency, and N.S.W. collieries
again had difficulty in dispos-
ing of the whole of their
output.
Caledonian Collieries saw
part of its inter-State gas-coal
markets disappear last year
when the brown-coal gasmak-
ing-plant at Morwell (Vic.)
started up,~ and production at
two of the co.’s seven pits was
curtailed accordingly. Lack
of trade, also, forced the re-
opened West Wa 11 se n d
Extended Colliery to close
down again. At Waratah
Colliery replacement of the old
shaft-haulage with a new
tunnel put the mine on a better
cost footing, and coal from it,
it is claimed, is being readily
marketed. Overall, partly due
to these factors and also
because of mine- and wharf-
gtrikes, production was down
slightly on 1955, but still in
excess of a million tons. That
loss, plus higher working costs
and co.-tax rates, explains why
profit was £59,228 lower:
f Dividends Re-
Dec., 'Profit. Pref.Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1948.. 86.549 Nil 34,822 182,523
From insurance provision,
£14,948 .. .. 197,471
Loss.
1949.. 23,006 Nil Nil Nil 174,465
From contingencies, £41,292 215,757
Further reconditioning,
£46,092 .. .. 169,665
Profit.
1950.. 28,108 5 Nil 23,215 174,558
Further reconditioning,
£40,843 .. .. 133,715
1951.. 94,068 10 Nil 46,429 181.354
1952.. 248,129 20 Nil 92,858 336,625
Deferred tax in respect of
previous vears, £95,000 241,625
1953.. 262,309 20 Nil 92,859 411,075
1954.. 320,087 20 Nil 92,859 638.303
1955.. 283,069 28 Nil 130,003 791,369
From contingencies, £40,200 831,569
1956.. 223,841 6 TO 130,218 925,192
Regarding the pref. div. as
a fixed 6 p.c. proposition only
for the time being, the rest of
the profit was 19.1 p.c. on the
ords., compared with 24.9 p.c. ;
1955, and 28.6 p.c., 1954. .
This year the mechanisation
programme at the collieries is
to be carried an extra step with
the installation of coal-prepara-
tion plans to wash and grade
coal according to requirements.
The co.’s competitive position
should be strengthened for it.
Of interest, but too
indefinite at present to have
much store set by it, is the
recent report of American
interest in Cessnock coal.
The co. concerned, Standard
Ore and Alloys Corporation,
of New York, is said to be
willing to negotiate five- to
10-year contracts for 10-
million tons of coal a year.
Net outlay on the collieries
and the new boiler-installation
at Cockle Creek power-house
was £451,109:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £464,295 £464,295
Ord 1,023,599 1,023,599
Reserves .. 803,369 925,192
Creditors .. 687,094 752,335
Tax provision,
etc 489,516 564,679
Dividends .. 83,573 85,581
£3,551,446 £3,815,681
Fixed assets .. 1,746,439 2,197,548
Stocks and stores 569,421 634,406
Debtors .. 1,093,775 924,263
Cash, etc. .. 141,811 59,464
£3,551,446 £3,815,681
There was a fall of £169,512 in
debtors and £82,347 in cash,
creditors went up £75,163 and
£64,985 was added to stocks
and stores.
Worth more attention than
they are currently getting, Ihe
£1 ords. fetch only 15s. 6d. to
show a return of 12.8 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. At 13s. 6d. the
prefs. yield an even 9 p.c.
Western Mining Corp., Ltd.
WESTERN MINING
TT CORP., LTD., is offer-
ing minority-shareholders in
Gold Mines of Australia, Ltd.,
one of its subsidiaries, two f.-p.
ss. ords. for every five 2s. 6d.
ords. held in G.M.A. The
parent co.’s scrip is currently
selling at around 11s. 6d.,
making the offer worth 4s. 9d.
a share to G.M.A. shareholders
compared with 4s. and under
recently offered on the share-
market. (Incidentally pur-
chasers of G.M.A. scrip at 4s.
would end-up with Western
Mining Corp. shares at a cost
of 10s. each—a handy saving
on ruling prices.)
G.M.A., a prospecting-,
management- and holding-co.,
has also been active as a
company-promoter and has
joined with Western Mining
Corp. in underwriting opera-
tions. The co. holds shares in
Central Victoria Dredging
Co., N.L., Morning Star
(G.M.A.), N.L., Mount Coolon
Gold Mines, N.L., and Vic-
toria Gold Dredging Co., N.L.
No divs. have been paid since
1934.
The large and successful
Western Mining Corp. is in
the same line of business as its
offshoot, heading a large group
of goldmining and base-metal
mining cos., most of which
are in Westralia. Its chief
source of income is divs. from
two of these cos., Goldmines
of Kalgoorlie (Aust.), Ltd. (25
p.c. holding), and Central
Norseman Gold Corporation,
N.L. (50 p.c. holding). Paid
capital is £931,450. Accounts
covering the year to March 31
last are not yet available but
a preliminary statement reports
a profit of £242,047 (down
£49,489) and a group profit,
after deducting the proportion
due to minority shareholders,
of £375,168 (down £24,656)
both figures being subject to
audit. The deferment of a div.
by Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
would account for most of the
drop in the parent's earnings.
Divs. of Is. per ss. share have
been paid in each of the last
five years.
Sungei Bidor Tin
TUST on two years ago
** Sungei Bidor Tin Dredging,
Ltd., wrote-up the book-value
of its dredge by £241,000 and
presented shareholders with two
new f.-p. shares for every one
already held. The possible
value of the issue as a tax-saver
was underlined earlier this
month when the board pro-
posed the return of £lOB,OOO of
the £360,000 paid capital (or
90 p.c. of the pre-bonus figure)
by reducing the par-value of the
scrip from ss. to 3s. 6d.
Floated 20 years ago, Sungei
Bidor commenced dredging for
tin near Kampar, Malaya, in
1939, returning £60,000 of the
original £lBO,OOO capital before
the 1939-45 war interrupted
operations. Since 1947, when
production was resumed, the
co. has declared divs. totalling
£1,314,000. In 1955 ore reserves
were estimated at approxi-
mately 31,000,000 c.y., or suffi-
cient to keep the dredge busy
until late in 1963. Accounts
for the term completed on
June 30 last are not yet avail-
able.
The market prices the f.-p.
ss. shares at 9s. 6d., the return
of capital being subject to
ratification by shareholders
next month.
TTNDERGROUND develop-
ment carried out by South
Alligator Uranium, N.L., at
the Rockhole mine (South
Alligator River, N.T.) has
exposed a new pitchblende ore-
body of an indicated length
of 400 ft., the deposit averag-
ing “better than 1 p.c. U 3 08
over a width of 36in. and a
depth of approximately 50ft.”


0
THE WORLD IS VOUBS
When you fly with
AUSTRALIA’S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
So widespread and efficient is the Qantas
organisation that—if you wish—you can
buy one ticket for luxury air travel to
practically every country in the free
world. Qantas flies to Europe, America,
Asia and Africa, and your Qantas Travel
Agent will help you plan your itinerary,
smoothing out travel difficulties and
arranging accommodation, stop-overs and
connections.
See your Qantas Travel Agent and fly
Qantas, Australia’s Overseas Airline.
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED IN ASSOCIATION WITH 8.0.A.C. AND TEAL
" <P560.82.67
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
r T , HE holiday season is almost
A at its peak and is reflected
in demands for currency, the
active note-circulation having
risen to over £2OOO million for
the first time. Furthermore,
hire-purchase sales of cars,
motor-cycles and household
goods have increased sharply ;
the estimates, varying from 20
p.c. to 50 p.c. above the figures
for the same period last year,
are probably on the
tive side.
Price-increases have either
taken effect or are imminent
with coal, rail freight and
lares, docks and canal charges,
cement, gas, electricity and
postal rates. Busmen, cotton-
operatives and farm-workers
are shouting for higher wages.
Engineers, builders, s h i p-
builders, municipal and kindred
employees, railwaymen and
miners are all appealing for a
shorter week for the same pay
and, of course, proportionately
more overtime.
Even our elected representa-
tives to the Legislature, who
bear some of the responsibility
for this, have quietly, and a
little shamefacedly, voted
themselves a 75 p.c. increase ;
and noble lords, long since re-
duced in revenue, are to be paid
an attendance-fee of three
guineas a time for carrying out
their prerogative.
The general secretary of our
largest trade-union, successor
to Ernest Bevin and Arthur
Deakin, has spoken out with
militant truculence against the
employers, the Tory Govern-
ment, its policy (“which
worsens the standards of the
people we represent”) and its
nefarious plan to set-up an im-
partial body to consider wages,
profits, prices and productivity.
A wealthy Scottish draper has
made a sensational bid for a
famous London group of
stores. To maintain the £ at
$2.80, the Treasury has had to
clamp-down on a dollar-leak-
age at the fringe of the sterling
area. Nobody loves gilt-edged,
which desultorily sinks lower.
And, when the Chancellor of
the Exchequer spoke more
firmly than usual on that tire-
some subject, inflation, the
Stock Exchange had a tempor-
ary fit of the blues in anticipa-
tion of a more positive action
than mere exhortation.
It is a strange, conflicting
scene.
Looking Deeper
All these, and many other too-
familiar attitudes, are symp-
tomatic of a high consciousness
of inflation in perpetuity or, as
Lord Bruce of Melbourne pre-
fers to call it, “the decline in
the purchasing-power of the
pound.”
The price-additions take into
account not only the higher
costs actually incurred but also
those expected to be incurred.
The anxiety underlying the
wage-claims is not so much
due to hardship as to the fear
of being left behind in the in-
flationary scramble. Even the
politicians, in fairness to their
responsibilities, could not be
put off any longer.
Mr. Frank Cousins, trade-
union boss and indoctrinated
Socialist, must know well
enough that the people he
represents have fared better
than most in our 12 years of
inflation ; his chip-on-the-
shoulder insistence on keeping
alive the cold-war between the
workers and the rest is largely
emotional: he and his applaud-
ing audience would prefer not
to know the informed and con-
sidered opinions of an impar-
tial body.
Since we are committed to
wages-costs inflation, where
will this be better reflected
than in the big multiple-stores,
with the prosperous workers
rushing to add to their comforts
and luxuries? There has
always been a doltar-leakage of
a kind, but it has only recently,
because of the flight of inves-
tors from sterling, got out of
hand. With high yields of 6
p.c. or so obtainable from top-
class industrial debentures, the
large institutional investors can
profitably stay out of the gilt-
edged market, and, because of
the squeeze, the banks haven’t
the funds. The Stock Exchange
no doubt has real fears of
“political.” action on company
profits and dividends.
Slide or Threshold?
The irony of this catalogue
of alarums and contradictions
is that the basis of the nation’s
economy is fundamentally
sound, although it certainly
isn’t expressed in the price of
Consols or war-loan. It is
Comforting to learn from
economists and industrialists
that in many respects (notably
in her growing industrial capa-
city) Britain is stronger, and
has keener potential, than some
of her formidable competitors.
Perhaps it is too early yet
for Government Public Rela-
tions—one of Mr. Macmillan’s
brainchildren —to have reached
full maturity. But the country
would benefit immeasurably
by being put in the picture and
the inflation scare (it is no less)
might be quietened or, at least,
softened.
Meanwhile, it is understood
that the Government is hoping
that the momentum gained last
year will bring reward in the
autumn and afterwards in the
shape of a sizeable increase in
productivity and export trade.
An autumn Budget is unlikely.
So is any measure of real
severity towards labor, invest-
ment or internal consumption.
More likely are a continuance
of the credit-squeeze (re-
inforced, perhaps, by directives
on bank-liquidity) and a check
to the expansion of the nation-
alised industries.


The
Syndicate
“Alby rushed and was stopped by a right to the jaw."
By JOHN FOUNTAIN
ABOUT four-o’clock Mr. Archer collected his car
from the parking-lot and drove home. Chang-
ing-down crossing the Bridge, he muttered
fiercely. He'd planned to have that new car this
month . . .
ivir. Archer drove into the car-port, paused
appreciatively, as he always did, to look at the smudge
of blue harbor through his four gum-trees, went
inside the pleasant brick bungalow and kissed his wife
and had a cup of tea, then changed into his old
clothes and did an hour’s work in the garden.
After the evening-meal he said, “I’m going to the
baccarat tonight, Else.”
She raised an eyebrow: “The baccarat? What
next! Can I come?”
He considered it: “Better not. I’m talking business.
Might be hanging around for hours. I’ve an appoint-
ment with Solly Gold.”
“Solly Gold? You're coming on in the world. I’ve
been reading all about him in the paper—some
charity he’s organising. They say he’s very generous.”
“A paragon. Now, today . . .”
This was what he had been waiting for, the
relation of the day’s adventures. Mrs. Archer enjoyed
them.
“And does he run the Game, too?” she asked
once.
“Oh, someone fronts for him there. But he’s the
king-pin.”
“You really think you might buy this hotel?”
“Yes. I’ve been looking around for one to put
young Payne in ; he’s a good boy. Needs a lot done
to it, of course; you could break your neck on the
stairs. And it’ll take a while for the place to get a
good reputation. However ... I don’t see why the
fact that I’m buying from the Gold syndicate should
make any difference. It’s a private investment. The
place is what I want. That American company I told
you about is building their factory a block away.
I don’t think anyone knows that yet. I’m sure Gold
doesn’t. It could be a mighty little business. How-
ever, I’d better ring Melbourne . . .”
He bustled into the hall. He was talking to
Melbourne for a long time. Then two more calls,
local ones.


'T'HERE was no difficulty with
the doorman; yes, Mr.
Gold had left instructions for
Mr. Archer to be admitted. Pre-
sently Mr. Archer found him-
self shaking Asquith’s limp
hand, in the playing-room.
“Mr. Gold isn’t here. Care
to sit down? Or you can go
in the bar, if you like?”
Asquith turned his lack-
lustre eyes away, and waved a
hand, dismissing him. Asquith
had a white, peevish face, a
small chin, and his black hair
was* parted in the middle and <
stuck flat, like two pieces of
glazed, shining board. His eye-
lids drooped, he had dark
circles under his eyes, a
cigarette drooped from his
mouth, and Mr. Archer disliked
him. No man had a right to
look so languid, so dissipated,
so like a Hollywood gangster.
The bar was full, jammed
tight, and, like the playing-
room, it was furnished with a
certain phony magnificence.
There were no windows, smoke
stung the eyes, and in the uproar
a half-dozen shirt-sleeved
barmen worked like demons,
opening bottles of beer, empty-
ing them into rows of small
glasses. Mr. Archer squeezed
in, bought a glass of frothy,
warm beer, squeezed out again
until his back came to rest
against a wall; doing mental
arithmetic: let me see so
many glasses from each bottle
at so much. . . A tidy profit,
after all expenses, cost, wages,
blackmail, rent. . . Even with-
out the Game. But the Game,
of course, made the real money.
There was an eddy around
the door, a backwash of bodies,
and Solly and his retinue came
in. A dozen men and women,
Solly in the centre ; the dark,
glowing girl of the morning—
what was her name? Peggy!
clinging to Solly’s arm. Loud
talk, laughter, rising above the
general hubbub.
Solly looked on top of the
world, young and gay and
triumphant, surrounded by his
people, a golden youth, a
Phoenician notable, a robber-
baron. Even his eyes appeared
golden—like a goat’s—as he
laughed and commanded. Rudi
Baumgarten’s neigh, Asquith’s
whinge, Stanovitch’s deep
voice ; all talking, all excited.
There was Mark, his arm
around a slim blonde, the
eternal younger brother of the
chief gangster. . .
Well, not gangsters, perhaps:
but this syndicate had a collec-
tive finger in some very queer
pies. It also had a string of
hotels, shops, one thing and
another; Mr. Archer hadn’t
realised how many until today,
when he had looked into
them. It’s not right, Mr. Archer
told himself angrily, not right
at all, that these people should
go on, expanding, growing
more powerful, corrupting
policemen, reaching into
politics. Seeing Murdoch at
The True Briton had given
him quite a shock. Murdoch
wasn’t important in himself;
just anpther politician ; but he
had the ear of someone who
was important.
Too greedy ... Mr. Archer
wondered for a moment
whether his resentment wasn’t
a bit ridiculous, considering
. . . But no! There was such
a thing as restraint, modera-
tion in everything. He liked a
profit, like everyone else. But
he knew when to stop; and
he had never been insolent,
like these people, parading
their power.
Mr. Archer didn’t suppose
Gold had seen him. But
presently a tubby, bobbing,
greasy little varlet of a man
came over and said, please,
come into the office, please ;
Mr. Gold will see you soon.
Mr. Archer followed him
into the office and sat down
and waited. He waited half-an-
hour.
COOLLY came in, full of
apologies, as false as he
meant them to sound, slightly
flushed. From triumph, Mr.
Archer supposed. Solly Gold
didn’t drink. There really
wasn’t much of an Achilles-
heel to Gold, any way you
looked at him, Mr. Archer’s
informant had told him.
Didn’t drink, didn’t gamble.
“The difference between
Solly and most of these black-
market kings of the war years
is mainly there,” this interest-
ing man had said, in Mr.
Archer’s office. “The other
fellows had money in the
wardrobe, under the mattress,
at the bookmaker’s finally
didn't know where they were.
Solly invested his, didn’t bet,
kept accounts.”
Gold sat down, and immedi-
ately his manner changed. This
was business.
They haggled over a thousand
here and there, but at the end
of twenty minutes had come to
an agreement. Gold was frank.
He needed money to buy
another hotel, a big one, for
a substantial amount. He had
the assets, but he was short
of cash, and at the last moment
—“Today, in fact” —a source
of credit had dried-up. He
had to sell The True Briton
to make up the difference.
Gold walked out with him,
through the bar and on to the
street. “Well, I’ll see you at
my solicitor’s tomorrow, Mr.
Archer. Eleven-fifteen.”
Mr. Archer nodded. “Eleven-
fifteen.”
But he was looking at a car
parked in front of the entrance.
Long, gleaming, symmetrical;
blue below, white above, green-
tinted glass, massive chrome-
bumpers ; latest model
Pontiac ...
Gold looked at him, looked
at the car.
“Like it?” he asked casually.
“My word! I had one
ordered, but missed-out. ,
“You won’t get one now,”
Gold said confidently. “Like to
try her out?”
“My word, yes. If you’re
sure you don’t . t .”
“Mr. Gold, oh, excuse me,
Mr. Gold!” The tubby varlet
came running out. “There's a
gentleman been waiting an
hour to see you, Mr. Gold.
It’s . . .” his voice sank into
an inaudible whisper.
“Tell him to wait,” Gold said
curtly. “Right, Mr. Archer?”
He slid under the driving-
wheel, moved over. “She’s all
yours. Here.”
He pressed a button, and
music came. “Like the seats?”
“Comfortable, all right,” said
Mr. Archer.
“Quick pick-up, eh?” as
they turned into a cross-street.
“Very good. Where to?”
“Oh, wherever you like. Give
her a good spin. Like to buy
it?”
Thev had stopped at a
traffic-light. Mr. Archer didn’t
answer until the green-light.
“I might be interested. How
much?”
“Three -thousand -six -
hundred.”
“But they’re only two-
thousand new . . .”
“This is practically new.
Anyway you won’t get one
much under that, now. Doubt
if you’ll get one at all. I
wouldn’t be selling if I didn’t
need all the cash I can get my
hands on. If you want one,
it’s a good buy. Anyway, give
it a good try-out.”
They were approaching the
Harbor Bridge.
“Think I’ll go over Roseville
Bridge, get a good run in the
forest,” Mr. Archer said. He
wondered if he was being im-
pulsive. He was an impulsive
man. He had bought 10,000
hotwater-bottles once, on
impulse, and had been unable
to sell them.
“You can pick up a bit of
speed here,” Solly said. “Takes
corners nicely, eh?”
Yes . . . but three-thousand-
six . . . “What about the house-
side of the pub?” Mr. Archer
asked abruptly.
Beside him, Solly shrugged.
“Not much. I haven’t bothered.
A few boarders there, hang-
overs from the previous
management. They eat out —
always moaning. I’ve been
meaning to get rid of them.”
“You don’t provide meals?”
“No. Have a woman running
the restaurant, she uses the
kitchen and dining-room, pays
me rent and a percentage of
profits. You can do what you
like about her; keep her on
or kick her out. She isn’t
covered by the Landlord and
Tenant Act, of course, being
hotel premises. Runs well, eh?”
“Yes. What about the house-
keeper—are you taking her to
the new hotel?”
“No. I’ll give her a week’s
notice.”
They were in French’s
Forest, on a straight run, the
night rushing past. Seventy,
seventy-five, a hundred . . .
“She’s not even breathing
heavily,” said Solly proudly.
Mr. Archer slowed down. Just
the thing for country trips . . .
Something was tickling his
memory, something said
today. . .
“I’ll pay you three-thousand-
five-hundred,” Mr. Archer said
as they drew up, back in front
of the building that looked like
a small block of flats, but
wasn’t. ‘Take it or leave it.
I’ll write you out a cheque
now.”
Solly took it, writing the
receipt on a page torn from a
pocket-notebook. “Seems all
right,” said Mr. Archer, in-
specting it by the dashboard
light. “We’ll just add the
engine-number, eh?” .
They lifted the bonnet, and
Solly called the doorman over.
He shone his torch on the
block, at sump-level, and Mr.
Archer wrote the number down.
“Good. Just initial that, will
you?” He got back into the
car and wrote the cheque.
“Right!”
He handed it to Solly, who
glanced at it and put it in his
pocket.
“Well, that’s all, eh, Mr.
Gold? See you in the
morning , .
"OUT Solly had turned his
head towards a man walk-
ing quickly towards them.
“Bert,” he said quietly. “Get
Alby. No, don't go yourself
—sing out through the door.”
Mr. Archer had a quick im-
pression of fierce blue eyes, ?
clenched, white face, bristling
fair hair, and was shouldered
aside.
“A word with you, Gold,”
the man said, quietly, deliber-
ately—tame words in a context


of terrific emphasis. The door-
man yelling “Alby, Alby,
Alby!” and Gold backing
away.
The doorman came running,
and caught the man’s arm.
Without turning his head the
stranger flung his arm back
fiercely, almost knocking the
doorman over.
“Now, Jimmy,” Solly said,
backing towards the door,
“this won't do you any good! ”
“A word with you
—Gold,” Jimmy said through
his teeth. It was obvious he
hardly knew what he was
saying.
The doorman pushed him-
self between, facing Jimmy.
“On your way,” he said, and
gave the other a half-hearted
push.
“Bloody fool,” said Jimmy,
and punched him in the
stomach. The man belched and
sat down.
Solly broke, running for the
door, and Jimmy ran after him,
to collide with Alby, the
battered heavyweight, rushing
out.
Both men reeled.
“What-the-’ell?” said Alby.
“Get out of my way,” said
Jimmy.
“Hit him, Alby,” commanded
Solly, from the shelter of the
doorway.
Jimmy hit Alby first, a beau-
tiful left-hook that jolted the
sandy head back and wiped
the expression of ponderous
belligerency off like a sponge.
While Alby .was considering
his next move Jimmy leaned
his head against the big chest
and slammed a half-dozen
punches into the bulging body.
Alby wrestled him away, and
swung furiously, but Jimmy
ducked and hooked him again.
Alby rushed and was stopped
by a right to the jaw. He
swayed, shaking his head, and
Jimmy stepped back.
“Give it away, Alby,” he
said, breathing fast. “I’ve no
quarrel with you.”
Alby shook his head, wiped
his mouth and came on.
Jimmy stepped back, kept re-
treating until he was off the
footpath and on the road, slip-
ping out of his coat. He threw
it away.
“All right. Come on.”
“Luigi!” Solly said sharply.
A crowd from the game had
come into the street. A man
in a white shirt and black
trousers stepped forward, and
Mr. Archer had a good look
at him as he moved into the
light. A mass of black, curly
hair, dark, narrow face, meet-
ing eyebrows, bright, brown,
intent eyes.
“Enough,” he said, calmly
taking the centre of the stage.
Alby stood still. Jimmy
watched him. He walked over
to Jimmy, tapped him on the
chest. “You have fun. Now
go home.”
“Go to hell!”
The Italian glanced side-
ways. “Ail right, Mr. Gold.”
Glanced back, as though to
casually note the left-hook that
had smashed- through Jimmy’s
late guard, sending him down
on hands and knees on the
road.
Jimmy was up again, and
the Italian moved in fast,
hitting Jimmy with straight-
lefts, one, two, three, four;
one, two, three, four ; dancing
away again.
“He’s good, this boy,” some-
one said at Mr. Archer’s elbow.
“Alby’s strictly for the routine-
trade. Anyone really tough
comes along, they whistle up
Luigi.”
“Who is he?” Another voice.
“A waiter?”
“Soft of. Doesn’t do much
waiting, though. Had a couple
of pro.-fights—Solly owns him.
I’m keeping my eye on him,
reckon they’ll set him for the
middleweight title before long.
See that?”
“The snowy boy’s good,
though. Oh, what a beauty!”
Jimmy had landed a solid
right-hook. But Luigi danced
back, and the left-hand shot
out again.
“Yair. But Luigi’ll eat him.
Wait and see.”
Already Jimmy was bleeding
from mouth and nose. He
came in close, guard high, and
landed some good body-
punches. But the Italian moved
around him, and the left kept
coming, very fast. Three out
of five straight-lefts, perhaps,
Jimmy caught on his open
palm, but the two that got
through hurt him ; you could
see that; and there was a
rapid series. Jimmy clinched,
and in close, Mr. Archer
thought, he had the better of
it. But as they broke a left-
hook staggered him, and the
Italian pounced in a flurry of
savage, short hooks, both
hands, and Jimmy fell.
The Italian stepped back,
scrupulously, and Jimmy came
to his feet slowly . . . being
knocked down on asphalt alto-
gether different from falling in
a ring. The Italian attacked, a
rain of straight-lefts, and now
Jimmy wasn’t blocking any of
them. And suddenly Mr.
Archer realised it had ceased
to be a fight and become a
beating-up. One - two - three-
four, one-two-three-four, and
each time the fair head jerked
back, sickeningly.
There were murmurs from
the crowd —“Fair go! ” “That’s
enough!”—but there were also
encouraging yells, and these
were louder.
Mr. Archer wanted to inter-
fere, but, somehow, didn’t;
perhaps he was fascinated,
despite himself, by the savage
spectacle; perhaps he felt
physically inadequate ; and, as
he told himself later, so long as
Jimmy stayed on his feet, and
the fight remained outwardly
fair, it was difficult to do any-
thing. But it was most horribly
unfair, and Mr. Archer knew
it. He caught sight of Solly,
smiling, green eyes glittering,
and hated him.
Finally Alby stopped it. He
pinned Luigi’s arms and
dragged him back, growling:
“For Christ’s sake, do you want
to kill him?” Luigi relaxed,
chest rising and falling deeply,
rhythmically, his bright brown
eyes turned towards Solly.
Jimmy stood with feet
planted wide apart, swaying
slightly, eyes closed, his face a
smear of blood, gasping
through a blubber of blood and
saliva, jaw slack, his shirt more
red than white.
Solly sang out: “He’s a
strong boy. Let ’em fight it
out.”
But Alby tightened his grip
as Luigi began to struggle, and
Mr. Archer stepped forward:
“By God, no !” And now he
had the crowd behind him.
A dozen voices in protest, a
movement, half-threatening,
towards Solly.
Solly shrugged. “We don’t
want any hoodlums around
here, causing trouble,” he said
loudly. “I hope this one has
learnt his lesson.” He turned
to go, and Alby released his
grip. Luigi gave Alby a long
look, and touched Jimmy
lightly on the shoulder. “You
all right? Better go home
now, eh? You want a taxi?”
“Jimmy!”
A CLOUD of rose skirts,
flying high heels, the dark
girl, Peggy, her face wet.
“Jimmy, they told me . . .”
Jimmy shook his head,
pushed her feebly, tried to
speak, and turned away. But
she clung to him with strong
young arms, and he was too
weak to shake her off.
“Oh, Jimmy, what did they
do to you?”
Tears of weakness washing
down the dried blood, and he
ducked his head, twisting to
get away. “Never—come —•
near —me —Peg,” he said pain-
fully.
She dropped her hands, and
the pretty face went blank with
shock. Solly Gold laughed—
the most jarring sound Mr.
Archer had ever heard.
She said softly, humbly:
“Don’t you want me, Jimmy?
Don't you want me at all?
Just to take you home?”
The head, turned away,
shook violently.
She turned and walked
towards the door, shoulders
slack, head down. But Solly’s
arm barred her way. She
looked at him wildly.
“You can’t come back in
here. We’ve had enough
trouble. Go on, clear out!”
He raised his voice, turning
aside, to Rudi Baumgarten.
“Crazy women hanging around
—get the place a bad name!”
She looked around, perhaps
for the first time conscious of
the crowd, the gaping faces,
and Mr. Archer thought she
was going to fall. He seized her
by the elbow.
“Mr. Gold,” he said sharply,
and Solly turned around. “The
keys of the car, please.”
He held out his hand.
“Thank you. You’re a clever
fellow, aren’t you, Mr. Gold?”
o Continued on page 64)
FORGET IT
Australians daub in primaries, ochres too warm and coarse;
snobbery in reverse,
harp on the Lawson legend, terse,
and earthy ; drumming loud and long
on Eureka, Logan, Starlight, savage Kelly,
too intent on the raw and the rake-helly,
tainting the dayspring of out drama, song,
magnifying blunder, ignorance and wrong,
raking injuries and grey injustice over
flinging op every drab and cobwebbed cover,
and banging on each as on an old cracked gong.
This continental grouch—raw alcohol to whet it —■
clutters our hearts, our utterance.
Forget it.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Busbane Exhibition
PREVIEW
1957
THE Brisbane Exhibition,
like all the Australian
Royal Shows, has a
curious ambivalence: it
is at once State and National,
agricultural and industrial, an
arena for keen competition and
a social occasion.
Shows, whether they are the
major ones dignified with the
prefix “Royal,” or the ordinary
ones held annually in country
centres (some of these, particu-
larly of recent years, very big
shows indeed), are so much a
part of the Australian scene
that there is a tendency to
accept them as natural
phenomena. It is only when
one looks into the history and
organisation of the various
societies that one realises some-
thing of their complexity and
stature.
The very size of the national
shows tends to mask the
mechanism. In a relatively
short time a great number of
competitions are held, and the
results are published. These
reports, which are of particular
interest to specialised groups of
breeders and exhibitors, claim
an increasing amount of news-
paper space as the show, or a
particular section, grows
numerically. For reasons of
time and space, a comprehen-
sive account of the proceedings
of a modern national show has
become next to impossible.
This year’s Exhibition is the
81st in the history of the Royal
National Agricultural and
Industrial Association of
Queensland, now in its 83rd
year. There has been great
progress in all aspects of the
Association’s activities since the
first show, held on the site of
what is now the Queensland
National Museum and Art
Gallery. In most years the
weather is fine for the Exhibi-
tion. Blue skies, bright days
of a kind to make southern
visitors relax (although,
perhaps, a shade cool for
visitors from further north), a
pleasant picnic atmosphere
around the green judging-rings
. . . Among the visitors, as
usual, a good quota of
officials from sister Royals,
and a fairly wide representation
of exhibitors and judges from
other States, emphasising the
national character of the Ex-
hibition . . .
The national shows are
exhibitions not only of par-
ticular wealth and special skills,
but of the accumulated know-
ledge of generations and the
productivity of large territories;
parades, not simply of live-
stock, but of personalities. One
is aware of this immense back-
ground of interest in all the
Royals, of course, but the im-
pression is more vivid at Bris-
bane in early August because,
for one thing, the geographical
GEORGE GREEN, R.N.A
PRESIDENT
hinterland is so large, and, for
another, because there are so
many people. The population
of Brisbane is around 500,000,
but upwards of 700,000 people
attend the Exhibition. Brisbane
becomes Queensland overnight;
and Queensland has a greater
variety of primary products
than any other State.
The total prizemoney this
year should be around £25,000
—last year’s total was £23,000
—and there is an increase in
the total number of entries: an
estimated 21,850 (with some
sections incomplete at time of
writing) for 1957, compared
with 21,735 for 1956.
But to glance back a few
years . . . The R.N.A. is 83
years old, younger than several
other show societies in Queens-
land. Uncertainty as to the
site of the State capital for some
.years after the separation of
Queensland from New South
Wales is a possible explanation
of this lag. Periodical shows
were held in Brisbane as early
as 1840, but no regular shows
were held until the forming of
the East Moreton Farmers’
Association in 1866. This asso-
ciation did good work in a
limited area, and was eventually
absorbed by the National Asso-
ciation.
The question of a metro-
politan society was
raised several times after
1871, and in 1874 P. R.
Gordon, then Chief
Inspector of Stock,
brought the matter up
again, and was joined
by Gresley Lukin and
John Fenwick. Largely
through the efforts of
these three, a meeting
was held in May, 1875,
which was the genesis
of the National Asso-
ciation. Invitations had
been sent to all pro-
vincial societies, the
Governor, W. Welling-
ton Cairns, was in the
chair, and Thomas
Harlen, headmaster of
the Brisbane Grammar
School, drew up the constitu-
tion of the Association.
The Association's first show,
which was called the “Inter-
colonial Exhibition of 1876,"
was held from Tuesday,
August 22, to Saturday, August
26. The Governor was presi-
dent ; vice-presidents were Sir
Maurice O’Connell, George
Harris, F. H. Hart, J. P. Bell,
J. R. Dickson, W. Hammant,
A. H. Palmer, E. R. Drury,
Gresley Lukin, D. C. Mc-
Connell, W. Miles and G.
Raff; councillors were H. G
Simpson, John Douglas, John
Fenwick, C. H. Green, George
Grimes, P. R. Gordon, C. R.
Haly, Thomas Harlen, W.
Kellett, W. H. Kent, E. W.
Lamb, L. E. Lester, John Little,
Angus Mackay, J. H. Mc-
Connel, C. S. Mein, G. B.
Molle, H. A. Payne, W. Petti-
grew, Alex Raff, J. Hamilton
Scott, W. B. Slade and Alex
Watt.
The exhibition was held at
Bowen Park, and was a great
success. Over 17,000 people
turned-up on opening day
Brisbane’s population was then
only 22,000 —and it was found
that the main pavilion was too
small; two temporary annexes
were added for the 1877 Show.
Absorption of the East More-
ton Farmers’ Association in
1878 brought five acres of land
at Normanton, and a special
Act was passed enabling the
trustees to sell it for £3OOO.
The original area, leased at
Bowen Park, was 17 acres, and
was bounded by Bowen Bridge
Road, Gregory Terrace, and a
creek which ran through the
centre of the present main oval
to the junction of the creek
that flowed' from what is now
Victoria Park, through the
centre of the present amuse-
ment area. In 1881 a railway-
line to Sandgate cut the
grounds, and more land was
bought, north of the last-
mentioned creek.
The Association was begin-
ning to thrive when the main
pavilion was destroyed by fire
in June, 1887. Up till then the
Association had been paying
rent for the land, but legisla-
tion was passed to give the
Association the fee simple of
the park, and money was
borrowed from the Govern-
ment to build a new, brick
building—the present Museum
and Art Gallery. This hand-
some building, together with a
massive pipe-organ from
London (now in the Brisbane
City Hall), cost £30,000, on
which interest and redemption
amounted to £I7OO annually.
Bad times came, the debt ran
up to £40,000, and the Asso-
ciation had to hand over the
property to the Government


IRONMONGERIES
PTY. LTD.
Wholesale and Retail
Hardware Merchants
152 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE
Step Ladders with Lock
Joint Hinges. Selected
Timber. Strongly made.
Screwed throughout.
PRICE:
3ft., 47/6. 4ft., 55/-.
6ft., 82/6. 7ft., 92/6.
Bft., 107/6.
and lease new ground north of
he old holding.
After this setback there was
a period of more cautious
expansion. The first actual
“Royal” Show held in Bris-
bane was in 1921, when the
Association was granted the
prefix under warrant from
King George V.
Of recent years the Associ-
ation has gone from strength
to strength, and during the last
seven years has been able to
spend some £300,000 on per-
manent improvements.
The list of Association presi-
dents since 1875 includes a
good many names notable in
the State’s history. They are:
W. Wellington Cairns, Sir
Arthur Kennedy, Sir Anthony
Musgrave, Mr. Justice Mein,
Sir Thomas Mcllwraith, Sir
Samuel Griffiths, John Donald-
son, A. J. Thynne, Sir Arthur
Palmer, Sir Hugh Nelson,
Richard Gailey, J. Leahy, Sir
Pope Cooper, J. H. McConnel,
Sir Arthur Morgan, E. Mc-
Dougall, E. Baynes, W. J.
Affleck, Sir Donald Cameron,
E. J. Shaw, J. L. Wilson, J. A.
Heading, G. E. Green ; which
brings us back to this 1957
Exhibition and the men who
run it.
The Association is governed
by a council consisting, at
present, of the president, two
FORMER PRESIDENT, J. A.
HEADING
vice-presidents, and 16 coun-
cillors. The council is divided
into 24 committees, the main
committees being Finance,
Works, and Space and Letting.
Sections such as Horse, Dairy
Cattle, Sheep, Pigs, and so on,
have their individual com-
mittees. Each committee runs
its own affairs, except when
these involve finance, when the
matter is referred to the Finance
Committee, or general policy,
in which case it goes before the
Council.
The backbone of the Asso-
ciation, then, is honorary work
by a number of councillors,
acting on largely autonomous
committees, and in close co-
operation with a relatively
small salaried staff.
George Ernest Green, the
president, was appointed to the
R. HILL, COUNCILLOR
Council in 1946, and succeeded
J. A. Heading, C.M.G., D.C.M.,
M.M., M.L.A., who became an
honorary councillor (a term
which needs some definition,
since all council jobs are,
strictly speaking, honorary;
what it seems to boil down to
is a sort of retired list for
councillors who have given
distinguished service) when he
retired from office. The
current president is a director
of a number of companies, has
a pastoral property at Boonah,
and formerly bred stud Jerseys.
In contrast to the dozen vice-
presidents at the time of the
Association’s first Show —the
“Inter-colonial Exhibition of
1876” —there are now only
two: F. J. Morgan and D.
Wadley. Between them, how-
ever, they represent a variety of
interests.
Franklin James Morgan is a
son of former R.N.A. president
Sir Arthur Morgan, of Warwick
(Q.), and has been on the
Council since 1944. For many
years Queensland manager of
the National Bank of Austral-
asia, and since then chairman
of Finney Isles, F. J. Morgan
is a very well-known figure.
He is president of the State
Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty, chairman of the
Queensland Institute of Public
Affairs, treasurer of the
Queensland Society for
Crip-pled Children, he's been
president of the R o y a 1
Geographical Society of Aus-
tralia, president of Brisbane
Rotary, and —back in the
’twenties —chairman of the
State Wheat Board.
Six years ago, thanks to an
introduction by The
Bulletin’s Brisbane office, this
writer accompanied F. J.
Morgan to the current Exhibi-
tion. For a visiting newspaper-
man it was rare good-luck.
Within a half-hour as fine an
assortment of “personals”—
j.e., persons who made good
copy for personal paragraphs in
The Bulletin —had, so to
speak, dropped into the hat.
The Chief Justice, a famous
cattleman, Parliamentarians,
the Lord Mayor, two Arch-
bishops . . . One remembers
with gratitude, mixed with some
embarrassment at having
trespassed on a busy man’s
time, F. J. Morgan’s courtesy
to a quite unimportant visitor
on that occasion; and, with
particular pleasure, his
spontaneous keenness . . *
Although the incident isn’t
quite typical—one doesn’t
strike an F. J. Morgan every
Exhibition —it has an authentic
Brisbane flavor. Brisbane is a
friendly city, near enough to a
town in some respects for
people to take the trouble to
talk to a stranger, and for it to
be possible to meet a fair
sample of the leading citizens in
one place. And this, in turn,
gives the Exhibition a special
character.
Douglas Wadley, the other
vice-president, is a well-known
Brisbane solicitor (O’Shea,
Corser and Wadley), chairman
of Queensland Brewery, Ltd.*
director of McWhirters, Ltd.,
Brisbane Bottle Exchange Pty.,
Ltd., Federal Mutual Ins.. Co.
of Aust., Ltd., and a Queens-
land Turf Club committeeman.
President of the Kennel Club
for some years, he breeds Jersey
cattle, and was appointed to
the Council in 1939.
C. P. Bottomley, the
treasurer, also represents the
Association on the Junior
Farmers Organisation and Bris-
bane Chamber of Commerce.
A Brisbane businessman and
alderman on the City Council
for 12 years, he became a
councillor in 1940.
A. Archer, a councillor since
1949, has pastoral interests in
western Queensland and is a
member of a family notable in
VICE-PRESIDENT D.
WADLEY
the State’s history “The
Archers who found the
Fitzroy.” He serves on the
Finance and Catering Com-
mittees, and, as chairman of the
Sheep and Wool Committees,
he’ll be particularly concerned
with one of the features of this
year’s Exhibition —the National
Fleece Competition.
This competition, which is
sponsored by the National
Council of Wool Selling
Brokers, was held for the first
time in Melbourne last year.
Anyone interested in wool
will have an opportunity of see-
ing a nationwide display of
fleeces, which will be appraised
by the five judges nominated
by the National Council of
(Continued on page 40)


Maximum BLOWFLY Protection
KILLS
LICE
&
KED
\
fvJs
a
&
/
E«
vV
V,
MUSTER
0 DIPPING
ONIYQDIP TO
Z
m
'A
a
In the last 12 months, Graziers have been convinced
that DIELSAN gives maximum protection at lowest
cost. Under l£d. per gallon for lice and ked control;
under sd. per gallon for MAXIMUM BLOWFLY
PROTECTION.
• SUPERIOR SUSPENSION
• EASIEST TO MIX
• USE IN PLUNGE OR SHOWER
DIPS OR AS A JETTING FLUID
DIELSAN ...66/6 PER PACK
BOOTS PURE DRUG CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART


Ex-Disposals
FOUR WHEEL
DRIVE TRUCKS
15 cwt. to 5 ton
n i
■
* , "
m&jsmzs
■ ■
.■:■■■ ■■
m
- *
mSBBgt
—» -
. ••••'*.; -.
&&
J@3
AS so available with Winch
The se vehicles were designed to travel fully laden over seemingly impossible places*
through swamps, sand, up mountain sides, where roads do not exist, and over ploughed
ground.
When you have a four wheel drive truck you have the all-purpose vehicle.
SHORT OR LONG WHEELBASE FITTED WITH NEW 12ft. OR 14ft.
TABLE-TOP BODY
PRICE
£625
Fitted with 10.50 x 20 Single Tyres.
PRICE
£725
Fitted with 7.50 x 20 Tyres. Duals on rear.
A number of these veliieles have been fitted with heavy duty winehes for front, rear or side haul.
Suitable for logging, dam sinking, de-silting, ete. Priee £125 extra fitted. Standard Chevrolet and
Ford Y 8 Engine and Gearbox.
DIRECT FROM DISPOSALS
CASH OR TERMS
LOW MILEAGE
TRADE-INS ACCEPTED
RUSSELL PEARSON MOTOR SALES PTY. LTD.
393 PACIFIC HIGHWAY (Cnr. Hotham Parade), ARTARMON, SYDNEY. JF4746.
G.M.C.s e x 6. DODGE WEAPON CARRIERS Available.
WE SPECIALISE IN ALL TYPES OP FOUR AND SIX WHEEL DRIVE VEHICLES
Colorful Comer of a Big State
Visit to Cooktown
By GEORGE FARWELL
I AM still not altogether
sure just what 1 expected of
Cooktown. Perhaps 1 had
read too much, turned up
too many photographic
evocations of the past; per-
haps the travel-writers and
regional historians had misled
us. I had travelled a long
way by sea to find a town that
was not there. Expecting to
find there a legend, 1 discovered
only a myth. The ghost-town
of which so much has been
written did not exist.
Cooktown has shrugged aside
its so-called “roaring days,” as
if they were some alien and
nostalgic concept of refugees
from another world of bundies
and bobby-soxers, displaced
persons from suburban
lespeclability.
The town itself has grown
respectable, in a fashion of its
own. It talks of municipal pro-
gress, of sealed roads and
citrus-farms ; no horsemen ride
down the sun-stippled main
street, no hitching-posts impede
the parking of cars; in the
pubs the talk is of wages and
wagers just as in other, more
citified parts.
Once, maybe, Cooktown was
the raw, swaggering, booted-
and-spurred frontier' town of
the historical tales. Maybe,
once, there were whiskered old-
timers nodding in the sun and
the time was always half-past-
three. But the place is no
longer back-o’-beyond, and
wage-earners are obliged to
keep regular hours.
The long-promised road is
at last on its way through
mountains and jungle from
Cairns ; motor-trucks grind up
and down the dusty street; a
timber-mill hungrily con-
sumes logs from the rain-forest
over the hills; farmers grow
peanuts and oranges along the
still Endeavour River; the
Town Clerk is more concerned
with rates, road-repairs and
land-values than forgotten
diggers’ graves, planning to
rebuild those empty spaces left
by the 90-odd shanties and pubs
long ago spirited away like so
many of the town’s rooftops
were in the last cyclone but
one. You look for the China-
town of the ’eighties and find
an ornamental park, for the
boardwalks once resounding
with the boots of many
thousand diggers and meet
bitumen footpaths.
Rejecting the dead weight of
its past, Cooktown refuses to
be framed with a worn-out
legend. A town is more than
a stereotype, fixed for all time
like a photographer’s plate. It
is a living organism ; it changes
and grows, and also, of course,
decays. However crippled this
particular place has been by
neglect and isolation, you can-
not expect it to wear its
1880’s face in the 1950’5.
Not that history is in any
way disregarded. There are
plentiful reminders of that. Its
first European visitor is still
honored, by the high green
shoulder of Mount Cook that
dominates the town, by the
name of the mangrove-lined
Endeavour River itself, by the
monument to a brilliant sea-
man who brought his bark
through reefs and shoals to
repair her damaged hull there
nearly 200 years ago, and by
the scale-model of that tiny
craft in the local school.
James Cook has acquired the
status of a pioneer, even though
two later naval visits and 101
years were to pass before a
township arose on that lonely
rivermouth. A. century before
the place was even surveyed,
it had made a contribution to
the English language, for
Cook’s journal of 1770 records
that he “discovered an animal
which has no similitude to any
animal known. It progresses
by successive leaps and hops of


It takes “know-how”
Whether it’s pulling a rabbit out of a
hat or wiring an intricate piece of
apparatus ... the man performing the
operation must have the necessary
“know-how” if the job is to be done
effectively. When it comes to electrical
engineering, Hamilton and Dickson have
this “know-how.”
AH jobs are handled by specialists and
the most up-to-date precision machinery
is used.
Rates are moderate, too.
SPECIAL SERVICES
A.C. and D.C. Electrical Motor Repairs.
Armature and Stator Rewinding. Light-
ing Plant Overhauls. Designing and
Manufacturing Transformers.
HAMILTON & DICKSON
54-56 ST. PAULS TCE., BRISBANE
New Phone No. B 2018
a great length in an erect
posture. The natives call it a
"kanguroo.’ ”
Strange that the marsupial
should have derived its uni-
versal name from a dialect of
the remote Cooktown tribe.
Then there was silence along
the Endeavour until the first
impatient diggers landed in
1871, taking 11 days to cut
their way through 90 miles of
scrub to the Palmer goldfield,
touching-off a rush that drew
25,000 Europeans and 35,000
Chinese to the port in a short-
lived decade.
Cooktown blossomed to a
town of tents, then a shanty
town, with Cobb and Co.
coaches reaching out to the
back-country, gold-escorts and
a fantastic narrow-gauge rail-
way that crossed 80 bridges on
its way to Laura, not to men-
tion another great, five-
span steel affair beyond, over
which only one train has ever
passed. No more are likely to
for a long time to come, and
the only service now is one
petrol-driven coach and van
each week to the shrivelled
township, where a packhorse
mailman saddles-up for his Wet
Season ride up Cape York
Peninsula.
But what of Cooktown’s
golden age, the intoxicated
times of the ’eighties and
’nineties?
There is little talk of that
today. Its relics are hidden
away in odd corners, with few
of the old buildings left; the
handsome brick and wrought-
lron convent, its timbers rotted
by white-ants and garden
smothered in weeds, the
treasures of a vanished joss-
house stored away in the back
of an auctioneer’s shop—some
finely carved and painted
statuettes, a cast-iron bell and
incense-burner, a big drum with
beautifully worked top.
Of the joss-house itself
nothing is known, nor its gold-
leaf ceiling and carved ebony
tables and chairs. In the main
street one imposing building
alone remains, the sandstone,
Georgian - style Queensland
National Bank, bought some
years ago by the Bank of New
South Wales for £BOO, one-
thirtieth of its original cost.
It was in that bank that
Louis Becke worked as a teller
when he tired of roaming the
South Seas. Behind its solid
cedar counter some of his
Bulletin stories may well have
been given a final polishing.
The bank still preserves a pair
of delicate scales, used for
weighing gold-dust from the
Palmer field, but now covered
with verdigris from 75 succes-
sive Wets. How much of the
£5,000,000 won on the Palmer
passed through that bank no
one can say—and even that was
not the full amount, for the
Chinese are said to have
smuggled their gold out, some-
times —so legend has it—in the
hollowed-out bones of the dead
sent home to join their
ancestors.
The most vivid re-creation of
the past is to be found in the
West Coast Hotel, a typical
old-time pub with timber
veranda-posts, weatherboard
walls and small, dark-panelled
bar. I made an early visit to
the West’Coast, because they
said it had atmosphere and the
beer was good. On both counts
I was well advised.
Inside the bar-parlor is a fine
old piano, with carved and
age-darkened frame. It must
have been the centrepiece for
countless exuberant evenings
when diggers tossed their gold-
dust over the bar and gold-
diggers of another kind danced
and sang for them. The piano
was made by Cornish and Co.,
Washington, heaven knows how
many years ago. Among the
usual pictures of Phar Lap and
Oatmeal Stout on the walls is
a photo of Cooktown in 1901,
already past its best. But it is
a lively scene just the same.
A Federation Day procession
is flaunting down the main
street banners, a self-con-
scious band playing, solemn
ranks of bearded gents braving
the tropic heat in toppers and
serge suits, schoolgirls with
starched white dresses and
straw bonnets, and a jaunty
crowd of onlookers thronging
the boardwalks. But the high-
light of the bar is a series of
murals painted round the top-
most section of three walls.
Here is the re-creation of
those boom-time years else-
where obliterated.
The painter has not romanti-
cised them, either. They have
an air of authenticity, with a
sardonic, irreverent touch that
makes no concessions to the
sentimental democratic myths
with which a later generation
has tried to invest the ’nineties.
First it is a little too embarras-
sing to look at these forthright
scenes; like coming upon an
old family album, finding that
your respected forebears were
rather homespun and quaint.
But the real shock is to find
they were not painted in the
actual period at all. They are
the work of a latter-day artist,
done little more than 25 years
ago. Some of the figures, it
seems, were sketched from old
photographs, some from
descriptions of those who
remembered them. The scenes,
though realistic enough, poke
outrageous mullock at the
alleged mateship of the; timesa
e art.st was one Garne,t
A B ne . w ; a B , U f ' T LET,N man wh ?
SvTnl T™ h SS v Trf W "a
Sydney than the North, and
u VS* aga
S f T„ a h Ch °l No ' man
I, -' , n f !s work especi-
ally m the faces of the town
iadtes and swaggering diggers.
The first scene depicts some
farewell to their
menfolk as they depart for the
diggings, some of them well-
dressed, with jauntily-worn
panama-hats, others bearded,
slouching, grim-looking or
shouldering miners’ picks-
with one gnarled old battler
pointing the way out west.
On the second wall a party
of larrikin diggers is driving
some pig-tailed Chinese coolies
off the Palmer with violent
gestures. The next section
shows a dying prospector, with
dish and bag of gold, being
robbed at the point of death by
other men on their way to the
field. This again, Mine Host
assured me, was a true occur-
rence.
Then comes a Cooktown
scene involving some get-rich-
quick gents in top-hits and
some o£ < he tarty women of the
town , Next istol duel
with a bearded digger dying
£rom a shot-wound while 1
third, smartly-dressed character
with lo pp e / and SW agger-cane
tries to i„tervene-and7immedi-
ate, following this two toughs
piddng the pocke . o£ a blind
t-/ r ,
• T he scene . a whole,
r ' o,ou , s fr |e “ on , , lts ,. °™’
happily placed next to the bar
-expresses the festive times
when gold was as plentiful as
T™ 1 : A °f party-makers
'? sin Smg Auld Lang Syne,
A "“« * en ? a « several figures
! d e"l'fiable by the older hands
‘ n inclu f d '" g a , nlce
touch !-one of the artist h.m-
se £ as a - ouna man *
They comprise a bucolic
character playing his accordion,
the local chemist, sundry
(Continued on page 55)


Where You Enjoy The
Ultimate In Comfort
THE CANBERRA
Ann Street
Brisbane’s Largest and Most Popular
Private Ho'tel
fi!
m
U
Phone FB 0231
Dinin'
Rooms and Cafe Open to
the Public
THE CANBERRA
Margaret Street, Toowoomba
Phone 2030
CANBERRA-ORIENTAL
King’s Cross, Sydney
Phone FA 2141
first Class Hotels. With
Tariffs That Please
Owned and serviced by the
Queensland Temperance League
Wool Selling Brokers: R. H.
Harwood, of Younghusband’s,
Melbourne ; W. G. Hunt, of
Country Producers’ Selling
Co., Sydney ; D. J. Richmond,
of Goldsbrough, Mort,
Adelaide ; F. L. Davies, of Pitt,
Son and Badgery, Sydney ; and
G. R. Hinder, of A.M.L. and
F , Brisbane.
It is intended that the com-
petition will be held, in rotation,
at Royal Shows throughout
Australia. So, in the nature of
things, it will be some years
before Brisbane’s turn comes
around again.
Another, somewhat different,
feature at this year’s Exhibition
will be the “Wool Princess
Quest,” which, F. J. Kennedy,
the R.N.A. secretary, points
out, is not a beauty competi-
tion. A maximum of 20 points
are allowed for “appearance,”
other points being given for
such items as voice and diction,
personality, deportment, dress
sense, and knowledge of wool
and its uses. The girls will be
judged in outdoor casual gar-
ments, and the winner will get
a trip to Japan and other
prizes . . .
There will be 745 head of
sheep at the Exhibition this
year, compared with 685 head
in 1956 ; a slight drop in the
number of stud sheep, a rise in
the number of pens of fat
VICE-PRESIDENT F. J.
MORGAN
sheep ; and, glancing down the
list of judges, one sees that
A. E. Day, of Allandale,
Alma, is coming up from South
Australia to judge the British
Breeds . . .
A. J. Caswell, chairman of
the Dairy Cattle and Goat
Committees, a breeder of A.I.S.
cattle, is also State president of
the A.I.S. Society. He joined
the Council in 1948. Serving
on the same committees, and
also on the Pasture-improve-
ment Committee, R. V. D. Cox,
breeder of Jerseys, director of
the Queensland Co-operative
Bacon Association, and a
councillor since 1951.
Judges of dairy cattle are
mainly from New South
Wales: J. A. Wills, of Widgee
Waa, Kangaboon, near Bowral,
will judge the A.I.S. cattle;
B. F. Mclntosh, of Woodside
Park, Berry, will judge Ayr-
shires ; E. A. Flower, Guna-
weeh, Binna Burra —Jerseys ;
and E. E. Cooke, Wongi Box-
hill, near Lismore—Guernseys.
Brother R. Hamilton, from the
Salesian School, Sunbury, Vic-
toria, will judge the Friesians,
and R.N.A. Councillor W. J.
Kajewski will look after the
Young Judges’ Competition.
Mr. Kajewski is a breeder of
stud pigs and A.I.S. cattle,
chairman of the Pig Committee,
president of the State branch
of the Australian Pig Society,
a committeeman of the A.I.S.
Society, and a director of the
Darling Downs Co-op. Dairy
Association. He was appointed
to the Council in 1952.
There has been a drop in
the number of dairy cattle —148
head less than last year; 72
Ayrshires compared with 128
last year; 237 Jerseys com-
pared with 300 last year; 278
A.I.S. compared with 317 ; but
there are the same number of
Friesians 50 and more
Guernseys—43 compared with
33.
Pigs are up a total of 131
head, with the biggest increase
in Berkshires, the second-
highest increase in Tamworths.
But there are more Large
Whites than any other breeds.
W. F. C. Anderson, of
Wamberal (N.S.W.), will judge
the Berkshires, C. C. Trenery,
of Foster (Vic.), will judge the
Large Whites, H. Butler, of
Newstead (Vic.), Tamworths,
J. T. Hamblin, Toolleen (Vic.),
Wessex Saddlebacks, K. B.
Jones, of Clifton (Q.), will look
after the Young Judges’ Com-
petition, and F. Bostock, of the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock, will
judge the bacon and carcass
section.
M. D. Davies, chairman of
the Works Committee, also
serves on a number of other
committees —Catering, Space,
Fine Arts, Industrial, Cat,
Woodchopping, Needlework,
School, and Cookery. A former
president of the Queensland
Chamber of Manufactures, he
is on the boards of a number of
companies, has pastoral and
farming interests, and was
appointed to the Council in
1950.
C. A. Edwards, who joined
the Council in 1954, is chair-
man of the Horse Committee,
COUNCILLOR A. ARCHER
and also serves on the Finance
Committee. He breeds dairy
cattle and stud ponies and is
president of the Queensland
Lawn Tennis Association.
The horse section, of course,
contributes much of the color
to the Show. Entries, for
general classes are 3700 (4594
SECRETARY F. J.
KENNEDY
last year); trotting classes, 996
(1009 last year).
Judges in the horse sections
come from three States. They
are: Equestrienne and turnout
classes, Mrs. J. Sharp, from
Kingsford, Sydney; pony
hacks, J. Sharp, Sydney;
camp-drafting and rough-
riding, W. K. Gunn, Mindine,
Goondiwindi (Q.) ; stud ponies,
stud trotters, Arabs, Clydes-
dales, harness horses and
harness ponies, J. Strahle,
Mount Sutler, Armidale
(N.S.W.) ; hacks, L. G. McColl,
Royston, Goondiwindi (Q.);
hunting, and Olympic jumping,
C. A. Rogers, Warrnambool
(Vic.) ; trotting, A. Belford,
Clayfield (Q.) ; thoroughbreds,
P. Quinlan, Mentone (Vic.).
Dick Hill, another member
of the Horse Committee (also
Works Committee) was
described in a Bulletin para-
graph four years ago as follows:
“Herewith one who has
launched a thousand events,
Dick Hill, ringmaster of
Queensland’s Royal Show, as
well known as the clock on the
John McDonald stand.” A
Councillor since 1943, Hill had
been a ring-official in 1926, and
earlier than that he and his
father were exhibitors, winning
the State trotting-championship
three years running with
Harold Sin, as well as bagging
the Silver Jubilee Medal.
Alderman of Redclitfe Town
Hall and former M.L.A. for
Kelvin Grove. Other members
of the Horse Committee are
F. H. Robertson (also on
Works and Horticulture), busi-
ness manager, who joined the
Council in 1955, and P. J.
Skinner, produce-merchant and


ssssi
I
M
WOOL PRESSES
WE CAN SUPPLY ALL YOUR NEEDS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
THE
NEW AJAX
MODEL B
By use of an ingenious framework the
New Model B does away with the hard
work of lifting the monkey in and out
of the press, thus making it easier, and
faster.
In effect, the framework acts as a false
top box and allows a greater topping up
of the wool —so much less wool to tramp.
k
sm
m
m
I
i
wftWl
m
m
mmm
m
■v~M
EVERYMAN’S WOOL PRESS
® 1 ■
m
m
■msi
'm
St
y
1
S
m
IS
THE AJAX MAJOR
Two Box ALL STEEL Woolpress
Already acclaimed by many hundreds of Australian
graziers from two to twelve stand sheds. You will be
proud to show the good heavy square bales from this
press. (One man, 35 to 45 bales per day; two men,
65 to 70 or more.)
0 Completely Portable on its own Two Wheels.
0 New Patent Hoist for Effortless Lifting.
0 Captive Monkey always in top box Eliminates
Lifting.
@ New Two Speed Action on Roller Bearings for
Faster and Easier Pressing.
J AX
THE FIRST CHOICE
FOR YEARS OF MANY
THOUSANDS OF
AUSTRALIAN SHEEP
FARMERS
Ask Your WOOLHOUSE or MACHINERY MERCHANT
AGENTS IN ALL STATES
Manufacturers and Patentees: DONALD PATENTS LTD., 390 GLENMORE RD., PADDINGTON, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


30 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
in reudy-to-erect buildings
behind every BOWAS
wood-und-steel structure
ran
[TO
JOT
t
BOWAS the ideal constraction lor
SHEARERS’ ACCOMMORATION
Bowas buildings are properly designed buildings,
easy to erect and strong and rigid when erected
—thanks to the patented steel-wood-steel sand-
wich members, outcome of Mr. George Williams’
long experience with the famous Sidney
Williams’ Steel-Fraim structures.
With Bowas you get a sound, properly
engineered structure stronger than timber and
approaching the strength of brick. Members are
accurately cut to size and the lightest steel
employed is never less than in. thick.
For your money’s worth choose Bowas—send
for descriptive leaflet.
BOWAS FEATURES
Patented “wood and
steel ” building units
•
Easily erected—easily
dismantled
•
Strong, rigid, durable —
free from dry rot, white
ants, etc.
•
Exterior and interior
icall coverings nailed on,
as in timber frame
' construction
•
Designs conform to
Rural Workers’ Accom-
modation Act—also
designs for Homesteads
and Country Cottages
BOW AS CONSTRUCTIONS LTD.
Williams Parade (Off Constitution Rd.), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. LM 5204, LM 7886.
In Qld.: 108 Colchester St., South Brisbane. J 4833.
company-director, a councillor
since 1950.
L. S. Rudd, a Brisbane City
alderman, joined the Council
last year, and serves on the
District Exhibit and Junior
Farmer Committees. G. F. R.
Nicklin, Councillor since 1951
and chairman of the Fruit
Committee, has been in the
fruit game all his adult life.
A War I M.M., he is Leader
of the Opposition in the State
Parliament.
R. M. Reynolds, W. J. D.
Shaw, and J. Sparkes, M.L.A.,
are all beef-cattle men. R. M.
Reynolds, a councillor since
1951, breeds stud Herefords
and serves on both Beef-cattle
and Works Committees. W. J.
D. Shaw, a grazier, and a
councillor since 1952, serves on
Beef-cattle, Pasture-improve-
ment and Young Judges Com-
mittees. J. Sparkes breeds
Herefords and Poll Herefords,
joined the Council in 1949, and
serves on the Beef-cattle Com-
mittee.
There is an increase of 19
head in the beef-cattle (pure-
breds) for this year’s Show,
compared with last year. In
the fat-cattle sections there is
a decrease —562 entries com-
pared with 601 last year.
Breed comparisons are as
follows: Shorthorns, 54 head
this year, compared with 52
last year; Poll Shorthorns, 61
this year, 68 last year ; Here-
fords, 179 this year, 182 last
year; Poll Herefords, 151 this
year, 159 last year ; Devons, 17
this year, 9 last year; Zebus,
8 this year, 8 last year ; Aber-
deen Angus, 55 this year, 29
last year ; Santa Gertrudis, 7,
this year, 7 last year.
For the fat cattle, H.
Simpson, of Thos. Playfair Pty.,
Ltd., will judge the “on the
hoof” section. R. Biddle, also
of Brisbane, will judge the
carcasses.
Queenslanders R. S. Wilson,
G. W. Bassingthwaite, J.
Sparkes, and R. M. Reynolds
will judge the Shorthorns, the
Poll Shorthorns, the Herefords,
and the Young Judges’
competitions, respectively; Vic-
torians R. Nicholas and A. F.
Patens will judge the Aberdeen
Angus and Devons; and R.
Schmidt, from Peel River,
Goonoo Goonoo (N.S.W.),
will judge both Santa Gertru-
dis and Zebus.
There is a similar split-up
of judges throughout the
sections: W. W. Sharpe,
from Melbourne, and F. N.
Martlew, from Parramatta
(N.S.W.), will sort out the
dogs ; A. Kellett, from Bogga-
billa (N.S.W.), will judge the
sheep - dog trials; F. W.
■Pearce, from the Sydney
suburb of Hornsby, will judge
the cats ; D. Sea brook, from
Melbourne, the wines . . .
There are 11 judges in the
horticulture section, headed by
Professor D. A. Herbert,
Professor of Botany and Dean
of the Faculty of Science at
Queensland University; 13
judges of poultry, with 3452
entries to keep them busy.
Glancing through the list of
sections—besides those already
mentioned, fine arts, photo-
graphy, dairy produce, goats
(judged by Dr. H. G. Bel-
schner, a veterinarian of world
standing), citrus, woodchop-
ping, bananas, apiculture,
cotton and vegetable - oils,
cereals, sugarcane (judged by
R. W. Mungomery, of sugar-
research fame), minerals,
woods, district exhibits —one
gets an idea of the range, the
multiplicity of interests in a
Royal Show. Breeders and
fanciers are, as a rule, a con-
servative crowd ; people have
been known to attend a Show
purely for the purpose of
inspecting bulldogs. It is one
of the functions of a national
(Continued on page 48)


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
SUGAR RUN
By RONALD CREASEY
LUCINDA POINT, remote
and picturesque up the
coast from Townsville,
ships sugar to the south.
Sugar is a primary industry
second only to wool, but few
southern Australians know
much about it, except as con-
sumers. It was interesting to
see something of where it came
from.
A wharf exposed to the
Pacific eastwards is protected
elsewhere by Hinchinbrook
Island and the mainland. An
“unsafe” port, sea disturbance
sometimes drives ships to
shelter in this Hinchinbrook
Channel.
A sand-bar seawards of the
wharf diverts ships around the
island, adding 70 miles, and
often delays them in the
narrow, unlighted channel.
Arrival was on pay-day. A
lady cabby drove the ship’s
paybobs to the bank at Halifax,
four miles inland.
At the wharf the agent had
Veterinary authorities
strongly advise
graziers to mark
lambs in clean,
fenced-off areas of a
paddock away from
sheep yards. Under
such conditions there
is less risk than other-
wise of soil contamin-
ation by disease
germs. Another safe-
guard is the use of
hygienic Elastrator
Rubber Rings rather
than a knife which
can be a' carrier of
disease germs.
tersely warned: “Don’t let the
’gators get 'em.”
“I’ve carried lots of
passengers and never lost one.”
Lucinda, of 150 residents,
was touristically “done” in the
first two minutes: wharf and
molasses-tanks, a few houses
served by general-store, post-
office and pub, camping-
“Stop using that language !”
ground, beachside barracks for
132 contract-wharfies, and
C.S.R.’s narrow-gauge sugar-
railway.
Crossing Gentle Annie Creek,
our driver spoke of crocs:
“They’re about, but seldom
seen there’s one, sunning
itself on the bank.” The talk
veered to snakes.
Probably few whites of other
lands face risks as Aus-
tralians do in tropical, rural
life. Australia alone employs
white labor in field and mill.
Most snakes slither away from
humans, but taipans (Malay for
“death”) are violently aggres-
sive. Bite and death are 20
minutes apart. Formerly
indigenous to Cape York
Peninsula, they have migrated
well south.
On both sides of our route
canecutters slashed the giant
members of the grass family.
The narrow-gauge hauled cane
to the mills ; bagged sugar to
the wharf. The loco.’s “wild
west” funnel houses spark-
catcher to prevent repetition of
igniting growing cane.
“The sugar’s coming up
fine this year,” said the driver
“We get refined sugar from
Brisbane and pay 2d. a pound
more than you do in Sydney.
Raw sugar’s been used, but it’s
‘dirty’ . . . still some impurities
in it. It’s only sold to the
public by Order-in-Council
during emergency.”
At Lucinda, wharfies toiled.
Many are of Italian birth or
descent. They work well, but
the migrant works hardest. Pay
is above normal and tonnage-
bonus follows the first thousand
tons.
Ship’s gear hoists bagged
sugar inboard, and wharfies,
slitting the stitching without
harming the bags, empty them
down chutes. (This raw sugar
is tasty in porridge, sweet and
rummy ; but it’s hell on clothes,
thumbing its nose at dry-
cleaners. Vessels load a part-
cargo, due to shallow water,
and top-off at Cairns, Towns-
ville or Mackay.
In 1958 Lucinda expects
bulk-loading at 600 tons hourly
instead of the present 20-odd
tons per gang-hour. Mackay
commences bulk-loading in
August this year (mills shipping
out of Mackay will pay 4s. 6d.
per ton to the Sugar Board to
preserve equity) and the port’s
redundant wharfies are offered
financial aid to shift home to
ports of their choice.
Wharfies have been the
coast’s perpetual weak link.
Townsville, last year, took 16
days to put 600 tons into the
overseas steamer Rubystone.
Lucinda wharfies earn about
£1260 p.a., rostered better than
two days in three. With more
men they might work alternate
days. Other ports are preparing
for bulk-loading. Waterfront
labor must inevitably decrease
and good men lose jobs with
the bad.
Australians know little of
their sugar industry, which is
limited to Queensland’s coastal
fringe and northern New South
Wales. Sugar is a tropical plant
with a hefty thirst; the N.S.W.
extra-tropical area, being near
the ocean, has a frost-fighting
climate. Only the tropics know
rain like Queensland’s. Lucinda
had half an inch one day while
Ingham, 15 miles distant, had
10 inches.
In floods people going from
Lucinda to Halifax take a
boat on the car top and row
the last mile. A launch goes
from there to Ingham. Low
creek-bridges allow driftwood
to float overhead, high bridges
would collect and dam the
waters. We saw two roadside
depth-gauges.
The “green gold” acreage
equals the Commonwealth’s
entire vegetable-growing land ;
equals the nation’s orchards;
no other primary industry
handles so much material,
about 9-million tons yearly.
“Bananalander” is a usurping
term.
Some 8000 farmers own self-
contained units, with home,
farm buildings, and cutters’
barracks, on about 70 acres,
with 60 cultivated. Usually,
it’s 15 acres of plant-cane and
30 of first and second ratoons,
worth 1100 tons. Fifteen fallow-
acres queue-up. A protected
industry, one cannot enter it
without permission. Those in
the game may only harvest
75 per cent, of their gross
assignment acreage, which
brings four yearly fallows. The
object is industrial stability.
Sugar’s an oddity, coming
from botanically different
{Continued on page 46)


Announcing
WMsk
•SB®,
Motor On %
AUSTRALIAN OWNED
AUSTRALIAN OWNED
MOTOR OIL
DIESEL 30 H.D.
* S PURE AS AN OIL CAN BE
MOTOR OIL
S.A.E. 20
PURE AS AN OIL CAN BE


A NEW CONCEPT IN MOTOR OILS
• • • "tailor-made" for today's modern engines
Now, Ampol presents an entirely neiv oil to meet the greater demands of
today’s high-speed, high-compression engines. It is vastly improved over
the oils you have been using . . . better in many respects than ANY OTHER
motor oil on the market today.
New Ampol is no ordinary motor oil. Now refined from the “heart” of the
finest, costliest paraffin-base crudes, it is so superior that in recent engine
tests it out-performed six other high-grade motor oils.
New Heavy-duty Ampol for high-speed diesel engines
New AMPOL DIESEL H.D. is also a big improvement over the “DEULEiBE’’ series it
supersedes. It is made to meet specification DEF2IOIA and provides even better high-
temperature, heavy-duty service, with greater ability to disperse sludge and reduce carbon.
Tailor-made for a tough job, these new oils are as modern as the engines they were
made to protect.
ORDINARY MOTOR OIL
NEW AMPOL
ENGINE TESTS PROVE NEW AMPOL SUPERIOR
Illustrations of pistons (above) show the result of accelerated engine tests of an ordinary
paraffin-base oil and new Ampol motor oil. Carbon and varnish deposits are almost
negligible on the piston at right, whilst the piston at left had a stuck piston ring and
evidence of considerable scuffing.


PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLING lON, N.Z.
p'ants, tropical cane and
temperate beet.
Sugarcane, in stalk clusters,
grows up to 10ft. Mechanisa-
tion opens furrows, cuts stalks
into “setts,” places them,
fertilises, covers with soil and
compacts it.
Tropical planting follows the
wet in Aprii-May ; sub-tropics
late summer and spring.
Harvesting is normal after 14
months, but in the south it
might have a second season’s
growth. Lucinda has harvested
alter 8-10 months. This year
has brought her a bumper
crop following cold snap, dry
spell, then rain at the right
time.
Cane-harvesting is farming’s
toughest work. No job for a
slacker, many men past 30 find
it beyond their capacity. Roving
gangs of cutters and cook share
15s. 9d. per ton. Superior
cutters work ten tons daily and
spell luxuriously off season.
Few men would delight in the
pre-war, sweat-producing labor
of cutting stalks at ground
level with large knives, at the
same time cutting away the
dense, green, leafy top, and
shifting adhering trash. Stalks
are thrown into bundles, and
lifting them on to the mill rail-
way portable branch-line ; s
heavy going in tropical heat.
Many cockies work a mechan-
ical loader themselves and chop
4s. 6d. per ton off cutters’ pay.
Cutters risk snakebite, and
some people are allergic to
sugar dermatitis. A mariner
was flown south with this
complaint from a sugar-ship.
Sores on face and body oozing
moisture, almost maddened
him with irritation. Weil’s
disease is a killer, though less
so since the coming of peni-
cillin.
Rats, mice, and bandicoots
are plentiful in the cane, and
rat-urine carries the wog of
Weil’s disease ; its contact with
a cut is dangerous. This enemy,
and war-time labor-shortage,
made the evening burning-off
of dry leaf before cutter’s work
the present-day method.
From the Kirrama Range
one may look down on the
cane-fires in the Cairns area
at sundown, an intriguing
sight; a controlled, hour-long
bushfire. After burning, cut-
ting bases and tops of stalks is
all that is needed, and no trash
blankets the soil.
Harvesting burnt cane is
more economical, but without
prompt milling quality wanes.
Sugar-work is mechanised,
except that harvesters are
expensive for small farms and
useless on recumbent cane,
which cutters loathe if denied
the easier stuff.
The present sugar output
will be insufficient, according to
one overseas expert, for future
industrial uses. Crude,
uncrystallised cane-sugar can
be used as raw material for
plastics; industrial uses are
mounting, but labor shortage
might hamper wider cultivation.
Mechanical harvesters suit-
ing Australian conditions
would help, but many promis-
ing designs have broken their
word. Queensland sugar
grown experimentally by
C.5.1.R.0. on W.A.’s Ord River
thrived. It might suit the
Territory, too.
In the countryside one senses
that we who live in cities and
throw two-bob over a counter
for our wants seldom realise
that people who wrest our basic
wealth from the soil let us
live. Seeing them work high-
lights the debt.
C.S.R. owns two mills near
Lucinda. Victoria mill, largest
in the Southern Hemisphere,
Can crush 26,000 tons of cane
weekly. We toured Macknade.
Mills crush non-stop except at
Vveekends and during off-season
overhauling.
The outside air is sickly, but
inside barely noticed. The
mill-chimney wears C.S.R.
ship-funnel colors. Employees
live in an adjacent company
township on the Herbert River,
Pre- and post-crushing parties
and other social events improve
the semi-exilement.
Manufacture of raw sugar
takes three days from field to
ship ; 12 hours from crusher to
sack. Overhanging cane hides
the rake of trucks, each of
which crosses a scale, and
operators might weigh 1000
tons each shift. As each truck
reaches an escalator-type
carrier leading to the crushers,
her rail-section tumbles and
over goes the load to begin its
mill journey.
Automatic overall-sampling
in a juice-laboratory tests fibre-
content for assessing farm-
earnings. At a consignment’s
end, sampling ceases automatic-
ally, and resumes with the next
farmer’s offering.
Revolving knives chop cane
before four sets of rollers with
enormous crushing force eject
the juice. Between the series
of rollers, the now-shredded
cane is sprayed with dilute
juice to liquefy the remaining
sugar and make it easier to
‘wring-out.” Refuse is
furnaced.
Our chief-engineer guide
explained: “The secret of mill-
ing is at the first crush. Too
coarse a cut and you don’t
extract all the sugar. Too fine
and the rollers don’t grip it.
The rougher the rollers the
better.”
Juice from this powerful
mangling goes through super-
beaters to thin it so that
impurities can sink.
Boiling the cleared juice
steams the water away, leaving
a syrup. This is boiled until
crystallisation is almost com-
plete. A workman took a
sample on a glass-slide to show
crystals in the liquid under a
microscope. If of varied sizes,
the smaller is washed away
with water,
The resulting mixture of
crystals and molasses falls into
crystallisers for automatic
stirring, and crystallisation goes
on to the uttermost. Sugar-
boiling is skilled work, and
operators once paid £SO to be
trained. Boilings heighten the
mercury.
Next are centrifugals with
gauze-baskets whirling like
spin-dryers. Sugar edges out-
wards and molasses falls
through so rapidly that color
changes from dark to light
almost immediately. Centri-
fugals are stopped ; raw, sandy-
colored sugar (pure sugar
crystals coated with molasses)
passes through a dryer, is
bagged via automatic-weigher,
and the bags sewn, all nearly
as fast as one could say it.
Nothing is wasted, The
mill’s well-water is rarely used,
The thousands of gallons of
water used daily for boilers,
washing-down, and all other
purposes, comes from the cane,
By-products so far are
bagasse, “mud,” and molasses.
Bagasse is cane-fibre which
burns well and saves mill fuel-
bills. A little sugar sprinkled
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(18/7/’57)
Light to moderate, patchy rains are indicated in Queens-
land during August, although reasonably good rains should
he received in the central highlands and part of the Maranoa
and Warrego. Reasonably good general rains are likely in
September, with the possibility of flooding on the central
highlands and central coast.
In N.S.W. reasonably good rains are likely on the central
and southern tablelands, central west and south-west slopes
and Riverina during August, but the balance of the State
may get only light to moderate, patchy rains. Moderate to
good general rains should occur in September.
General rains are indicated in Victoria during August,
with the heaviest falls in the central division, north-east and
western division. Flooding is likely in the northern half of
the State, with similar conditions in September.
South Australia should get reasonably good rains during
August, although the Murray Valley may be confined to
light to moderate rains, with light rain or showers in the
interior.
General rains are indicated in the south-west of W.A.
during August, with good rains in the De Grey, Fortescue,
Gascoyne and goldfields areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmra/s Amazing Efficiency
warmray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
■fa Large Capacity
Over 8,000
co. ft.
fa Special large
firebox for lon*
burning without
attention.
fa Extra large
hetji'ate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
fa Heats over 8,000
cu. ft.
fa Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
Iron.
fa No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
•fa F«U view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
•J* Lights in seconds
warms entire room
in minutes.
•fa No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
You,- appreciation of *™"V-
-> ’•"‘fas-—J''
WORLD PATENTED KEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
I
WARMRAT
HEATING TUBES
-
The secret of Warmray’s Amnlni; Efficiency U
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built Into the firebox. The air In the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
Jl. BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
n WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Scores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challls House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents
on a fire makes it “go.” A lot
of burning sugar needs foam-
extinguishing. Bagasse is used
in Caneite, which is distasteful
to borers and white-ants ; but
Caneite’s bagasse comes from
the handier N.S.W. northern
rivers. —■
“Mud”—good fertiliser —is
fine bagasse, soil, moisture, the
cane’s wax-coating, and plant-
food from the soil. Our guide
claimed it’s good for the
garden even after two years,
but the gardener needs a bull-
dog grip on his nose. A factory
near one mill retrieves and sells
wax for industrial purposes.
A ton of cane gives four
gallons of molasses, ultimately
cane's lowest-grade product.
Formerly dumped at sea, it is
now utilitarian ; as stock-food
and fertiliser, for distillery uses
(it contains rum and metho,
C.S.R. producing enough
metho to supply Sydney's
needs and surplus to send inter-
state), acetone, and levulinic-
acid, which makes anti-freeze
for car-radiators.
Australia has developed the
world’s highest sugar-content
cane through quality-incentive
payments. Content, differing
with variety, age and season,
falls-off after September-
October maturity; harvesting
lasting from June to December.
Millers juggle between capital
outlay and highest possible
extraction, but overdoing it
intensifies average-season labor
problems.
Lucinda sends molasses to
Sydney by C.S.R. ships. If
they are delayed the south’s
molasses supply fills Lucinda’s
tanks and puts a stop to
crushing.
At the season’s start the
Sugar Board advances money
to mills when they deliver raw
sugar f.o.b. at the port. Final
payments follow after the
season’s price. Millers pay
growers on quality. C.S.R. and
Millaquin Sugar, of Bundaberg,
refine, distribute, and sell sugar
to the public for the Govern-
ment . . .
No rural surroundings at
Pyrmont, but a large factory
in slummy environs, fronting
the harbor with Sydney’s only
privately owned commercial
wharf. Adjoining are Caneite
factory, rum-distillery, and
metho-works. Grabs take giant
bites of cargo, covering decks
with spillings which sailors
shovel back into the holds to
become, eventually, as pure as
the rest. Eighteen hours
empties the ship.
This was about the last place
in Sydney to cease using horse-
drawn transport. Now a fleet
of trucks need no registration-
as they never go on the street.
During discharge an
encyclopaedic guide took us
ashore with our cargo. Refin-
ing bears some similarity to
milling. Raw sugar must be
filtered and whitened. To pass
through a filter it is liquefied
by mixing with saturated syrup.
After filtering, the syrup is
spun off in centrifugals. The
filtered liquor, clean but golden,
passes through towers filled
with bone-char, emerging clear
and colorless.
This refined liquor is con-
centrated and boiled to crystals
in vacuum-pans. The sugar is
separated from the mother-
syrup in centrifugals and the
syrup returned to process for
further boilings. After several
such treatments the syrup is too
low in purity for white-sugar
production, but might pass
over the bone-char again and
reboil to give more white
sugar.
As the syrup-purity falls
further it is still good for
golden-syrup and treacle, or
for boding to yield brown-
sugar. White-sugars separated
at the centrifugals are dried,
sieved into a group of size-
fractions, and bagged as vari-
ous grades of refined sugar.
The industry has an exclusive
meaning for “low-purity.” Dur-
ing the crystallisation process of
white-sugar and refinery-liquors
the small percentage of fruit-
sugars and mineral constituents
in raw sugar are concentrated
in the mother-liquor. It is these
so-called impurities which
lower the purity of refinery-
svrups. To the extent that they
interfere with the purity of
the white crystal sugar, they
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi-
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addre*ssed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


MARK OF C.5.1.R.0.)
<REGD
WC'CD BRANDING FUND
RED, CREEN and BLUE
ON WET SHEEP
OR DURING RAIN
MARKETED IN AUSTRALIA BY
ORDER NOW
FROM YOUR
USUAL SUPPLIER
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
1775.51R.7X.46i
Show to give scope to all these
special interests.
Obviously, behind the staging
of each successful Show there
is a lot of hand work and a
high level of executive skill.
The chief executive officers are
the Secretary, the Assistant-
secretary, the Accountant, and
the Herd-book Officer.
The Secretary is answerable
to the Council for the imple-
mentation of its directions, co-
ordination of the work of each
committee, and general super-
vision of all aspects of the
Association’s work.
The Assistant - secretary
supervises allocation of space,
the work of the ground-staff,
and—among other duties —the
preparation of the showground
for exhibits.
The Accountant supervises
the recordings of the finances
of the Association, and, at
Show time, is in charge of the
collection of the gate-takings.
The Herd-book Officer is
head of the staff who keep
herd-book records, is respon-
sible for the compiling of
schedules and catalogues of
entries, and usually represents
the Secretary at breed-society
meetings.
Secretary F. J. Kennedy
points out that the R.N.A. helps
kindred societies in such
matters as the running of
shows, hurdles and feed-
troughs, and such items of
equipment are often lent with-
out cost, and trained members
of both office- and ground-
staffs are released to other
societies on occasion ; members
of provincial societies are also
given experience on the R.N.A.
staff.
The Association also controls
all show trotting in Queens-
land, at the request of the
Queensland Chamber of Agri-
cultural Societies, an organisa-
tion which has 120 affiliated
societies as members.
The Royal National Associ-
ation has, 300 life-members,
3800 full members, and 5000
associate-members. So, any
way you look at it, the R.N.A.
has pretty firm roots in the
State. There are all sorts of
links with the history and
current life of the city—for
instance, the Museum and Art
Gallery, and the organ in the
City Hall—and with the State ;
and, beyond the State, with all
Australia. Most State and
many inter-State shows are
visited by councillors and
executive officers. No doubt
there’ll be reciprocal delega-
tions at the Exhibition next
month. It should be a good
Show.
are impurities, though harm-
less, and contributing usefully
to the valuable properties of
golden-syrup.
Sea and road transport dis-
tributes the output; liquid
sugar goes to “lolly” factories
in road-tankers.
Regular trade-ships waste no
time on thorough emptying.
One was caught in rain after
discharge with partly opened
hatches, and mess oozing from
leavings was too thick to pump
overboard. She visited an
unscheduled port to clean-out,
and men worked in a sticky
substance on hold-floors and in
bilges, the metho-rummy fumes
of which were apt to make
them feel drunk. Despite the
cheapness, there are pleasanter
ways of absorption than
inhalation.
Phalaris
“8.J.”: The extra carry-
ing-capacity of phalaris far
outweighs any losses which
may be associated with it; and
these losses can be avoided by
controlling periods of grazing
and by using cobalt.
A system of rotational graz-
ing, in which the sheep are
allowed no more than 14 days
on the pasture and 14 days off,
would be satisfactory.
Where trouble is anticipated,
administer cobalt, either as a
weekly drench or added to oats
or other supplementary-feed.
It can also be applied as an
annual topdressing to the pas-
ture.
Best points about phalaris
are that it provides winter-
feed, gives late-spring growth,
and is drought-resistant. In
addition, combined with other
mixtures, it gives greater
stability to the pasture and
reduces weed and grass-seed
problems.
On newly-developed virgin
soils, where there is little plant
competition, seeding-rates as
low as per acre are effec-
tive.
If you want to renovate old
pastures which have been
under clover for years, and in
which weeds and annual
grasses have taken-over, up to
41b. or 61b. per acre should be
used.
Skin-cuts
“Pluto”: Slices of skin about
2in. long and wide can do
a lot of damage to machinery
spinning and weaving in the
mills.
One mill recently spent
thousands of pounds repairing
damage by skin-cuts. In addi-
tion, tiny pieces of dried-skin
can mar fine fabrics in much
the same way as tar-spots do.
As long as there are skin-cuts,
it costs money to inspect fabrics
for flaws, as well as the loss of
value which they cause. Where
they have to be cut out, it costs
money for “invisible mending.”
The value of a bale of some
of Australia’s best wool was
reduced considerably recently
when skin-cuts were found in
it. Once skin-cuts have been
found under an owner’s brand,
buyers are wary about paying
much for wool from that
property in future. Synthetic
fibres have no skin-cuts.
Beekeeping Schools
“Myall”: Apiculture, which
has been somewhat neglected
in Queensland to date, is to be
given an impetus by the State
Agricultural Department. A
six-day school in beekeeping is
to be held at the Gatton Col-
lege at Lawes (S.Q.), in con-
junction with the Southern.
Beekeepers’ Association of
Queensland. Already about
100 applications have gone in
from beemen.
Within the next few months
the association will be opening
Australia’s first experimental
apiary at Glencoe, near Too-
woomba.
Supervisors appointed by the
association will be in charge,
and already a number of hives
of bees have been donated for
the project.


AVOIDING EMBARRASSMENT ABOUT—
GOVERNORSHIPS
By "EK DUM"
A UGUST 1 sees the end of the longest
Governorship on record in New
South Wales save that of Governor
Macquarie, who was here twelve years
against Sir John Northcott's eleven. It
also sees the end of one of the most
successful Australian Governorships and
of an experiment which has worked out
well.
Sir John Northcott was the first
Australian-born N.S.W. Governor—he
came from Creswick (Vic.), the home of
the Lindsays and other distinguished Aus-
tralians—and he was eminently fitted for
the job by experience. He had been
an original Anzac, wounded on the
Peninsula. He had long and distinguished
Army service, had served as Chief of the
General Staff during the crucial period
of World War 11, had had more than
ordinary experience of ceremonial at vice-
regal level through his association with
the visit of the Duke and Duchess of
York in 1927, and was a man of more
than ordinary stature of mind ; well-read,
an able speaker and a hard worker.
During his 11 years of office he worked
far harder than might have been expected
of him, and became, probably, the man
with the widest knowledge of the State
as a whole, the most-travelled intra-State
of its inhabitants, with friends and
acquaintances in every corner of N.S.W.
and a firm grip of its problems.
Outstanding Men
In a word, the experiment of appoint-
ing an Australian Governor proved not
only that one could be found to fill the
job with dignity, but that it was possible
to select an outstanding man.
On Sit" John’s retirement, another out-
standing man was found —acceptable, and
equipped both by mental ability and by
his career to represent adequately the
Queen and preside over the Executive
Council.
General Woodward is the first N.S.W.-
born Governor of the State, a keen
student of its history and with a pioneer-
ing ancestry, which reaches back to a
time when the population of continental
Australia was only about 25,000.
Moreover, when it came to making a
choice of a second Australian-born
Governor, names of several other men
were canvassed in the press—men who
would have been generally, if not so
generally in all cases, acceptable.
Queensland has had an experience
similar to N.S.W. in its long-term appoint-
ment of Sir John Lavarack, who had even
more intimate associations with the State
than either Sir John Northcott or General
Woodward has had with N.S.W. Both
of the latter were brought-up outside the
ambit of their future Governorships and
were aloof from its youthful intimacies,
whereas General Lavarack, like the others
an officer whose name will live in the
history of World War 11, was not only
born in Queensland but educated at Bris-
bane Grammar School and on personal
terms from. his youth upwards with
hundreds of fellow-Queenslanders. This
formed no bar to 11 successful years in
office, and was in no way derogatory to
his vice-regal position or productive of
embarrassments.
In both States the system of Australian
Governorships can be said to have been
successfully established. Yet there is still
some nervousness about it, due to many
causes. One is the ferretlike curiosity
of the flapper press.
Another is the general distrust of Labor
Governments in such matters, following
the outrageous manner in which the
appointment of Mr. William McKell was
made in an atmosphere 11 in which the
leaders of the Labor Government were
open in their exultation that they were
forcing on the Crown an appointee whom
the King was believed not to favor and
about whose choice he had not been
consulted.
Governorships, whether in the Com-
monwealth or in the States, are not figure-
head offices, as many people are prone
to believe. There has been more than one
case in which that has been proved in
Commonwealth, and particularly in
N.S.W., history.
In the Commonwealth, in view of a
number of elements, local appointments
to the Governor-General’s office have not
been as generally acceptable as the recent
appointments in the States.
Isaacs and McKell
Sir Isaac Isaacs, while he was a great
jurist and Constitutionalist, was both by
age and temperament unsuitable, and Mr.
McKell had the violent opposition of a
large section—probably the larger section
—of the Australian people.
In his case the breeze veered in an
astonishing way, and. throughout his vice-
regal career he paid the penalty for having
spent most of his life with a reputation as
an astute politician. While his appoint-
ment was passionately attacked, and
rightly, in the beginning by one side in
politics and defended by the Evatts and
the Wards who were responsible for it,
he was assailed in the end with venom
by those who elevated him, because he had
granted the Menzies Government a
double-dissolution. . In other words,
throughout his term of office, having been
a politician, he was treated as a politician,
an undesirable condition of affairs in
relation to a vice-regal representative.
Political Appointments
There is little doubt but that the Cahill
and other Governments would appoint
political nominees if they dared, but
experience in the Federal sphere has
proved political choices to be double-
edged swords, and they are chary about
pursuing the Chifley line.
The situation calls for the regularisa-
tion of the whole position in a manner
clear to the public which will establish
confidence in the Governorship as a local
institution—there are very sound reasons
why the Governor-General should con-
tinue to be drawn from abroad for the
present, inter-State jealousies being one
of them.
The method by which recent State
appointments were made is obscure. It
has been said that a panel of names was
submitted to the Queen and that she made
her own choice. If that is so, it seems a
system to perpetuate. But the public has
not been told this openly, nor is it allowed
to know anything about the internal rules,
if any, which have been framed, as it
might well be allowed to do.
There are many other matters, Consti-
tutional and otherwise, which also are
obscure and obviously not governed by
regular laws or custom.
One is the matter of pensions. It seems
desirable, if military officers, who are
traditionally not garnerers of wealth, are
to be appointed and for terms which take
them beyond normal retirement age,
that some definite pension provision,
operating automatically on retirement,
should be made. To leave the matter to
the individual decision of whatever
Government is in office is to create a
position in which a Governor who makes
an unpopular decision in favor of a
Ministry in time of crisis near the end
of his term might have his behavior made
the subject of ugly inferences.
It has been a tradition in England to
grant pensions to Governors of Australian
colonies from the time of Phillip onward,
and where the incumbents of the office are
Australians this practice should be
followed if only to remove a former
Governor from the need to risk doing
anything which might cast a reflection
on the office. At present the position
is undefined and without regularity both
as to Commonwealth and States.
Sir John Northcott has been granted a
pension by the Government, and very
deservedly. The grant has been made by
a statute specifically applicable to his
case.
On the other hand, Sir William McKell
has no pension ; he is not even allowed
official transport on official occasions.
It seems that both as to appointments
and as to privileges and treatment of vice-
regal and former vice-regal personages it
is desirable that a system uniform in the
Commonwealth and all the States should
be written into the rule of law or custom
and made clear to the citizens of the
Commonwealth, as applying to local
appointees. This should be done for the
protection of everybody.
If this is not done, unpleasant incidents
embarrassing to the Crown and the Gov-
ernment are bound to happen sooner or
later.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DISARMAMENT
nrHERE were fleeting hopes
that rearrangements in the
Kremlin might be followed by
a more co-operative • Soviet
attitude in the disarmament
discussions in London; these
having been dashed, New
York “Herald Tribune” com-
ments that “the chronic
Western weakness for viewing
every change in Soviet
personnel as marking a change
for the better in Soviet policies
has again been rebuked”:
“The struggle within the
Kremlin, it is becoming ever
more clearly apparent, was a
struggle for power. Khrush-
chev won; what he will do
with his power cannot be
prophesied in advance. Cer-
tainly the West cannot grant
concessions to the Soviets now
that they would have refused
yesterday, in the belief that
Khrushchev without Molotov
will be a better neighbor than
Khrushchev with Molotov.
“The policies of the Soviet
State are shown by the acts
of the Soviet State —not by the
personality who is their
ostensible author.”
London “Daily Telegraph”
also notes that, “whether the
victorious members of the
hierarchy show themselves
rather more sly and rather less
atrocious than their predeces-
sors, any possible internal
softening has so far been
accompanied by a hardening
towards the W^est”:
“In the Disarmament Com-
mittee, Mr.. Zorin closed the
door on hopes of agreement,
if not with a resounding slam
at least with a nasty-sounding
hiss. He was plainly acting on
the orders of the new dispen-
sation ; and he has not yet
varied at all from the con-
tention that the cessation of
nuclear tests is a subject com-
pletely apart from all other
conditions, such as the reduc-
tion of conventional forces, or
the cessation of the manufac-
ture of nuclear weapons.
“In short, after years of dis-
cussions, the disarmament
question seems to be reverting
to the same old groove. When
it comes to the point of action,
one of the parties is seen to
have the clear intention of
securing a definite and
dangerous advantage over the
others.”
Searching for an impartial
summing-up of the discussions
—and for some hope for future
disarmament “Manchester
Guardian” notes that “briefly,
Russia wants to suspend tests
for two or three years without
agreeing to any other measures.
“The West wishes to put
conditions, even though its
proposed ban on manufacture
need only be agreed upon
in principle at first, and deed
come into force . only after
tests had been suspended for
some time.
“The Soviet reply is not
encouraging. Russia has agreed
in principle to control of a
ban on tests, but now says that
it would be a waste of time
to discuss the details. She will
agree to a ban on manufacture
only at a second stage—and
then it must be linked with an
agreement not to use existing
nuclear weapons in any cir-
cumstances, which the West,
inferior as it is in ‘conven-
tional’ strength, cannot afford.
“Behind all this skirmish-
ing,” the “Guardian” adds,
“there lies another conflict—
between the ‘disarmers’ in each
Government, and some of the
military and scientific advisers.
It is going bn in the West and
perhaps in Russia also.
“Some of the advisers fear
that if partial disarmament
comes about, the potential
enemy will find a way round
it; some wish themselves to
perfect weapons the so-
called ‘clean’ bombs in parti-
cular the manufacture of
which would be difficult to
control.
“As we approach the almost
totally ‘clean’ bomb it becomes,
indeed, more and more doubt-
ful whether a ban on manu-
facture could be materially
enforced.
“Yet a ban is still worth
trying for, before this state of
things comes about. The West
could still go farther to meet
the Russians on a suspension
of tests —it could agree to let
it start at once and last for a
year or two —for the sake of
getting Russia to agree in
principle that this first step
shall not be the last.”
The I.G.Y.
Press-comment on the open-
ing of the International Geo-
physical Year:
“New York Times”: “This
‘year’ is a term of 18 months,
during which scientists from
60-odd nations will try to add
to our knowledge of the sur-
face of the earth, of the earth’s
internal structure, of the move-
ments of currents in the oceans,
of the nature and behavior of
the atmosphere to a height of
300 miles or more.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“Something of the scope of the
International Geophysical Year
can be gathered from the fact
—New York “Herald Tribune”
SHOULD QUIT WHILE HE’S AHEAD
that it will involve not merely
an expenditure of more than
£l3O million, but also the
collaboration of more than 50
Governments, and the co-
operation of more than 30,000
scientists and other personnel.
“Of these no less than 6000
will be stationed on Antarc-
tica, the icebound continent
larger than Europe and Aus-
tralia put together, which
covers the South Pole.
“Of the £l3O million total
cost, the U.S. will contribute
over £25 million, Russia 11
million roubles, and the U.K. a
basic Governmental contribu-
tion of about £650,000 a
figure that is more accurately
placed at about £1 million,
when the contribution of exist-
ing institutions is taken into
account.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” : “It
[the I.G.Y.] has shown that
scientists of the Great Powers
can work together almost as if
they were members of the
same team. A few years ago
the notion that Russian,
American and British scientists
working, curiously enough, in
the Antarctic could go so far
as to pool information about
the weather would have been
a joke for a pantomime ; now
it is a fact. In the elaborate
planning which has gone into
the scientific work about to be
carried out, valuable lessons in
international teamwork have
been learned, and will go a
long way to make up for the
days when scientists of some
countries were not invited to,
and not given visas to attend,
conferences held in other
countries.”
The British
Commonwealth
London “Spectator” on the
significance of the British Corn-
monwealth of Nations:
“What makes the importance
of the Commonwealth is its
moral status in the world, and


THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
W»
*&■
y>m%,
and the Bank
The Banking needs of families are varied, but this
Bank, with its large network of branches and
agencies, provides modern facilities to satisfy all
needs. Its many services and friendly advice ar.e
available to all members of your family.
• The C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited is equipped to
- handle savings accounts with the minimum delay at
all branches and agencies of the Bank in New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland,
Western Australia and
Australian Capital Territory.
Deposits in C.B.C. Savings
Bank Limited are guaranteed
by the parent company.
The Bank’s officers will be
glad to tell you how its services
can help you.
§
m
' TUET
I si Ep
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
C.B.C. SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
that moral status is very largely
due to its being the only
Western political organisation
to throw a bridge between the
European peoples and their ex-
subjects of Africa and Asia.
“The Commonwealth is the
only Western answer so far
produced to the Soviet
‘nationalities’ policy, that
masterstroke of Lenin’s which
gave Russia a flying start in
dealing with peoples emerging
from colonialism. To counter
the Messianic creed of Com-
munism something more is
required than a simple asser-
tion of innocence on the part
of the West.
“American protestations that
they at least have never been
colonialists will be ridiculed by
Marxists who know, or think
they know, that economic
power is the basis of political
domination. On the other
hand, the British transfer of
power in India and Ceylon
evidently made a profound
impression, while in a country
like Malaya the prospect of
independence has proved the
most effective weapon against
the Communist guerrillas.
“The Commonwealth has, in
fact, something far more
tangible to offer Asians and
Africans than anything else on
the Western side. In it is con-
tained the dynamic heritage ol'
European liberalism.”
Buraimi Oasis
Canadian (Toronto “Globe
and Mail”) comment on the
report that Saudi Arabia’s price
for lining-up with the members
of the Baghdad Pact is the
handing-over by Britain of the
Buraimi Oasis:
“This oasis is in territory
which is administered by the
ruler of Abu Ahabi and the
Sultan of Muscat. These
rulers also administer Oman
and Muscat, coastal areas lying
below Saudi Arabia. Britain’s
agreement with these potentates
includes a guarantee to main-
tain their independence—prin-
cipally as against Saudi Arabia,
which would like to control the
coastal area comprehended
within the protectorate, as well
as its oil potential.
“Britain also may have a
reasonable interest in that oil
potential; but she also takes
her pledge seriously to protect
the independent status of the
rulers who rely upon that
pledge.
“President Eisenhower is
quoted as having pointed out
that the United States’ ‘conces-
sion’ in joining the military
committee of the Baghdad pact


calls for ‘matching concessions’
from Britain —the principal one
being that the British Govern-
ment should abandon its
guarantee of independence to
these small Middle East areas
and expose them to absorption
into Saud’s Kingdom.
“The peculiar inconsistency
of this course by the United
States not only is contrary to
the settled policy of the Wash-
ington Administration to pro-
mote, procure and preserve the
independent status of small
autonomous areas, but also
violates the spirit of the Eisen-
hower doctrine for the Middle
East.
“Apparently, however, if any
proposed course of action
serves to weaken British in-
fluences in any part of the
world, Washington’s support of
that course must take prece-
dence over all other standing
policies, regardless of whose
autonomy may be placed in
jeopardy.’’
In further comment on King
Saud’s attitude towards Bur-
aimi Oasis, Sayed El-Hashimi
suggests in London “Contem-
porary Review” that “one can
conceive the Wahabi King be-
ing prepared to submit this
matter to such arbitration as,
say, the International Court at
The Hague, because no matter
of Arab religious or other
fundamental prestige is
involved”:
“Provided that ‘face’ were
preserved, there seems no good
reason why the Buraimi ques-
tion should not be solved when
normal diplomatic relations
with Saudi Arabia are resumed.
Report has it that Saud is much
less interested in the financial
side of the potential Buraimi
KHRUSHCHEV,
fields than in the local political
developments.
“He does not welcome the
advance of characteristic
Middle Eastern urban ‘effendi’
politics into his domains.
Rapid industrialisation of an
area bordering upon the Saudi
kingdom and yet outside its
oolitical control, d hac
feared, might affect the balance
of things as they are in oauai
Arabia. If this is indeed the
King’s fear it is likely that he
is mistaken, because from
personal observation and living
in his country one can con-
fidently say that his regime is
far more stable and popular
than many another not a
thousand miles away.”
By the half-dozen.
Commonwealth
Conference
An American view (from the
independent American weekly
“U.S. News and World
Report”) of a changing
emphasis at the Common-
wealth Prime Ministers’ con-
ference :
“It’s dawning on people in
London that a significant
change in the British Com-
monwealth is under way.
White Governments, barely in
the majority at this year’s meet-
ing of Commonwealth leaders,
may be in the minority next
time. New nations in Asia and
Africa will soon outnumber
the older members.
“Look at the line-up in the
Commonwealth as it stands
now:
“White leaders, of European
stock, speak for Britain,
Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa and
Central Africa. ' Non-whites,
THE FLOWERS THAT BLOOM IN PEKING. TRALA,
HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THE CASE.
also non-Europeans, speak for
India, Pakistan, Ceylorl and
Ghana.
“This line-up, however, is
due to change. Malaya, Singa-
pore, Nigeria are scheduled to
achieve independence before
long. They’ll be represented
at future Commonwealth
meetings by non-white Asians
and Africans. South Africa,
a black country ruled by a
white minority, may soon pull
out of the Commonwealth.
“Future line-up in the British
Commonwealth, then, may
show only four white Govern-
ments and seven non-white
ones, with additional non-
white Governments to come as
Britain’s remaining colonies in
Africa win their independence.
“London’s question, in view
of these changes, is whether
the new nations of Asia and
Africa will tend to dominate
the Commonwealth in politics
as well as in numbers.
Differences between Britain and
the Asian-African nations have
already become numerous —
differences over Suez, over
relations with U.S. and Russia,
over disarmament, the H-
bomb, trade. Britain can no
longer count on her Asian and
African partners to side with
her on some key issues.
“London assumes the Com-
monwealth will rock along,
despite differences, but it’s
obvious that Britain’s influence
is declining, not growing.”
Communism in the
Middle East
Dispelling the “comfortable
assumption” that, because of
its religion, the Islamic world
is resistant to Communism,
Baltimore (U.S.A.) “Sun”
points out that this would be
true “if all Moslems understood
the falsity of Communist
propaganda along lines that
seem not to conflict with their
religious beliefs”:
“It would be true if all
Moslems knew what Com-
munism actually is—and if
they knew what democracy
actually is. What gives Com-
munism its chance in Islam is
By Cummings, in London
“Daily Express”
By Vicky, in London “Daily
Mirror”
By Enunwood, in London
“Daily Mail”


that in most Islamic countries
it competes not against estab-
lished democracy, but against
democratic ideas within a
society not yet set in certain
form.
“The majority of Moslem
countries are now democratic
in form, but the form is new
and in most cases imposed
originally from outside. The
Constitutions are copies of
French or British Constitutions
drawn up not by Moslems, but
by colonial rulers since
departed.”
The paper quotes Ghassan
I'VE GOT TAKE UNDER MY WING, TRA-IA.
A MOST UNATTRACTIVE OLD THING, TRALA
WITH A CARICATURE OF A FACE...
VICKY, IN LONDON “DAILY MIRROR ”
Tueini, Lebanese M.P., on the
same theme:
“ ‘Democracy in the modern
sense was crystallised as a con-
cept by the West after a gradual
evolution of more than two
centuries. Within that period
of political evolution in the
West the Arab world was part
of an Ottoman Empire that
was slowly waning. And the
concept of a free society was
far from being a part of the
Ottoman Empire’s tradition or
belief. It was only with the
end of World War I that
Western concepts such as
democracy entered into the
political consciousness of the
Arab States and started to
react on the development of
their political life.’
“Imposed democratic institu-
tions in societies not oriented
to democracy have, Mr. Tueini
writes, ‘produced the most un-
democratic results,’ in oligarchy
on the one hand and revolu-
tionary movements on the
other. Mr. Tueini is considering
only the Arab countries, but
the same thing is true in most
other Islamic regions. Demo-
cracy has not yet taken root.
“This is not to say that the
soil of Islam is poor for demo-
cratic growth. It is not poor.
The Islamic ideal of brother-
hood within a free society, a
strong ideal, is wholly recon-
cilable with democratic institu-
tions. Democracy in Islam
needs careful nurture for a
while, though. It is still young
and tender.”
To which London “Time and
Tide” adds, “The Mediter-
ranean and the Middle East are
of vital strategic importance to
both the West and Russia”:
“The Mediterranean out-
flanks Soviet positions in
Eastern Europe and Western
Russia and aircraft operating
from bases in the Middle East
or from the Sixth Fleet are
within reach of the Dardanelles,
the Caucasian oilfields, the
Black Sea naval and military
installations and the industrial
plants in the Southern Urals.
“Russia, however, regards
this as the area where she can
most easily break through the
fringe of coastal countries
which contain her vast Eurasian
empire.
“The old Tsarist expansion-
ist dream of a warm-water port
on the Persian Gulf and of a
Mediterranean fleet is not yet
dead. The sale of submarines
to Egypt, the continued flow
of armaments to Syria and the
increased espionage in Iran are
all part of modern Russian
expansion.”
By Williams, in London “Time
and Tide”
By Abu, in London “Observer”
By Illingworth, in London
“Daily Mail”
Various Voices
Sir Macfarlane Burnet: “I
like talking about ’flu. Radia-
tion is much trickier.”
* * *
Prime Minister Macmillan :
“It is common knowledge that
the forces immediately under
Nato are greatly outnumbered
by the Soviet forces in Eastern
Germany and facing Europe.
Therefore, to give up the bomb
without comprehensive dis-
armament by air, land and sea,
would make conventional war
more likely and more pro-
longed. We must not abandon
the nuclear protection which
has preserved the peace for
ten years and more, without
making sure that we do not
expose ourselves to hopeless
inferiority on the conventional
basis.”
Sir Harold Caccia (British
Ambassador to the U.S .):
“Since the end of World War
11, one-half of the world’s
population has changed its
form of government. To state
it simply, this change has in-
volved two things. First, the
subjugation by Communist
rule of one-quarter of the
human race. Secondly, the
promotion under British
guidance of another quarter of
the human race to free, inde-
pendent and sovereign self-
government. If you wish to
strike at the imperialist in the
world today, I leave it to you
to decide where you should
start! ”
* * *
Sir William Haley (editor of
“The Times”): “By and large
the newspapers have made the
wrong choice in the past few
years ; for they have gone for
the circuses. As circuses news-
papers will die ; if they provide
bread they will survive.”
* * , *
Mr. Nehru explains the latest
Soviet purge: “These events
suggest a process that has
probably been going on in the
Soviet Union for some years.
Any country that passes
through a revolution gradually
returns to normality. It took
Russia longer than usual, but
then she has had a lot of
trouble. She appears to be
achieving it now.”
* * *
Mr. Suhrawardy, Prime
Minister of Pakistan : “We see
no point in accumulating a
huge income in order to pay
back most of it to the Govern-
ment. When we have made
a reasonable amount, we stop
working.”


oTtON
Effect all your Insurances with
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL
Insurance Company Limited
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
■Phone: BWIOII. BWIOI2. 8W4991
ACCIDENT
All types of General Insurance
FIRE
Directors:
STRUAN ROBERTSON (Chairman)
JAMES H. STEPHENSON
S. E. A. STIRLING, R. G. GALE
A. C. MAITLAND N. E. MANION,
Managing Director Manager
Branches and Agencies in all States.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
MERITS YOUR SUPPORT
MARINE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wanto
To obtain a good handbook on
Australian eucalypts. —6557.
To buy copy of The Upper
Murray, by Royal Miller (Spectator
Co.; Melbourne, 1934). —6556.
Words of the verse containing the
following lines:
I thank the Lord that I am placed so
well;
That I’m no slave to whistle, clock or
bell
—6558.
Any information about or photos
of J. J. Moody (one-time Town
Clerk of Collingwood), for use in
a centenary brochure of the
Combermere Masonic Lodge.—6s6o.
To buy a copy of Steele Rudd’s
G rey-Green H omest ead. —6559.
To buy copies of the following:
A ustralia’s Frontier Province
(Sydney, 1950), by C. L. A. Abbott;
“Rural Australia, A Geographical
Summary” (ed. by L. G. Ashton for
the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics; Canberra, 1952); Sir
Joseph Banks’s Memoirs, Historical
and Scientific (ed. by George
Sutton; Parramatta. 1850); Up and
Down, by W. J. Barry; Hills of
Gold, by W. A. Bayley; Craft of
Modelling Railways (1928), by E.
Beal. —6562.
Does Anybody Know?
The whereabouts of Robert
Kaleski, author of Barkers and
Biters ? An old friend wishes to
contact him. —6561.
What is the story behind the
Roman numeial IV being usually
shown on clock dials as 1111?
Information Sought
(1) Brief information on the town-
ship of Eden, on Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.)? (2) How did both Eden
and Twofold Bay get their names ?
(The following information is
taken from Eden and Twofold Bay,
1797-1953, by H. P. Wellings.) (1)
In 1834 official permission was given
by the British Government for a
township to be established at Two-
fold Bay, but it was not till 1842
that a survey was made by Thomas
Townsend, Government Surveyor.
The site was then laid-out, and in
1843 the first sale of land at Two-
fold Bay was authorised. Sales con-
tinued up to 1853, in which year the
area of the township was extended.
Eden's first post-office was opened in
1847; the public school was erected
and opened in 1857, as was the
police-station. The first Customs
House was built in 1848. The
present-day Hotel Eden was built in
1857, as a general store; but there
were earlier stores and an earlier
hotel. Much of Eden’s early
prosperity was centred on whaling
operations (conducted in the mam
by Ben Boyd and by the pioneering
lmlay brothers); Eden flourished
spectacularly tor a time (1859-60)
tnrough the Kiandra gold-rush. (2)
Eden was named from the family-
name of Baron Auckland, who .was
at the time of its founding British
Secretary for the Colonies. Twofold
Bay was named by Bass in 1798,
from the tact that the peninsula
known as Lookout Point divides the
bay into two sections.
# * * *
Brief particulars of the life and
doings of the Hon. R. B. S.heridan,
of whom there is a bust in the
Lands Department, Brisbane ?
Born in Ireland in 1822, Richard
Bingham Sheridan arrived in Sydney
in 1842, and was appointed to her
Majesty’s. Customs in 1846. In
1833 he was transferred to Brisbane,
and, till he retired on a pension in
1885, was Chief Officer of Customs,
Water-police Magistrate, Harbor-
master at Maryborough, etc. He
entered the ninth Queensland
Parliament as member for Maryvale
(Nov. 7, 1883), and was Minister
without Portfolio and member of
the Executive Council in the first
Griffith Ministry in Nov., 1883.
When Charles Stuart Mein was
promoted to the Bench in Jan.,
1885, Sheridan, succeeded him as
Postmaster-General, but resigned
the following month (Feb. 17, 1885).
In Dec., 1884, he was appointed
lion, lieut.-colonel of the Queens-
land Defence Force, on the retired
list. He was also on the board of
management of Brisbane Botanic
Gardens, of which he had been one
of the founders. He died on June
8, 1897.
* * * *
What was the early relationship
between whites and aborigines in
W.A.?
The Governor, Sir James Stirling,
was from the outset at pains to
establish friendly relations with the
blacks, and the beginnings of settle-
ment were accomplished without any
clashes and without bloodshed.
However, the blacks, who resented
the intrusion of the whites, tended
to make a nuisance of themselves,
and soon several were killed; in
1830, in an unprovoked attack, the
first white man was killed by the
blacks. The aborigines continued
to rob’ and show violence, and
murdered other white settlers, while
at the same time natives also were
killed. In June, 1831, the settlers
petitioned the Governor to take
immediate steps to deal with the
natives, and Stirling established a
mounted police-force. But trouble
with the blacks continued, two of
their main leaders being Midge-
gooroo and his son, Yagan. The
former was executed, and Yagan
soon afterwards (July, 1833) shot,
but only for a very short while did
things quieten down. When Stirling,
who had returned temporarily to
England, arrived back in the colony
in August, 1834, the progress of
the colony and the security of the
settlers were still being menaced by
the natives. On Oct. 28, 1834,
occurred the “Battle of Pinjarra”
when two parties of whites, one
under Stirling, routed a mob of
tribesmen, inflicting heavy losses.
The natives were cowed by this
display of force; and the settlers
regarded the battle as conclusive,
though there were later disturbances,
such as around York in 1837, when
several white men were killed in
attacks. (Most of the information
from Land Looking I Vest, by
Malcolm Uren.)
Brief Answers
H.H.: (1) Original Old Age and
Invalid Pensioners’ Association of
Australia, 25 Cary Street,
Leichhardt, N.S.W. (2) Taxpayers’
Association of N.S.W. (Inc.), 11c
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. (3)
Commonwealth Scientinc and Indus-
trial Research Organisation, 314
Albert Street, East Melbourne, C. 2.
... .J.W.: A girl wears a steep-
crowned black hat with a mob-cap
underneath, a shawl across her
shoulders, blouse, skirt, apron and
shoes with large buckles. However,
there doesn’t seem to be a male
equivalent. Perhaps a cloth-cap,
shirt, waistcoat and pants (as in
Oswald Pryor’s joke-illustrations)
might do. Suggest he clutch a large,
bare bone.... W.R. (Albury): Write
the Superintendent of Documents,
U.S. Government Printing Office,
Washington 25, D.C., U.S.A
P.S.F.: Write the Editor, “Atlantic
Monthly,” 8 Arlington Street,
Boston, U.S.A T.C.: There is
no Stale-owned feature-production
unit in Britain, but the National
Film Finance corporation is
empowered to lend money for film
production. The corporation was
established for a period of five
years under the Cinematograph Film
Production (Special Loans) Act,
1949. In 1954 another Act extended
its life for a further three years. Its
members —a chairman, a managing-
director and three to five others —
are appointed by the Board of
Trade. Its funds (limited by statute
to £8 million) are provided, up to
£C million, by advances from the
Board of Trade; the remaining £2
million may be borrowed from
non - Governmental sources....
T.G.: Write Mr. 3. Bright,
secretary, Budgerigar Council of
N.S.W., 49 Victoria Street,
Waverley.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributior . voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should, be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
V.G.W.: We don’t believe there
was ever a drover called Jim Scrog-
gins .... L.A.: “Having written a few
poems and having Lept a few of
them in a book, which is read by
all who come to this place, l have
been told (though only having a go
at me) to send one in to The
Bulletin and see if they will
publish it.’’ Well, we had a go at
it P. 8.: You’re not likely to
place them anywhere, though the
epigrams are not too bad....J.D.:
W. H. Davies was before you in
the standing and staring line
D.W.: Both featherweights....
V.J.S.: Whatever all that may be
about, it won’t do J.F.: It


rutui+e
Less than twelve years on from the explosion
that ended a war and opened an age, peaceful uses
of the atom are to be seen now in the splendid
workings of nuclear science.
Beyond the energy that allows 151 b. of con-
centrated atomic fuel to produce as much power
as 40-million lb. of coal, there are those enormous
sources of benefaction that lie in the use of radio-
active isotopes—for healing and research in
medicine, for the enrichment of agricultural plant
life, for the testing and improving of industry.
These in themselves are wonderful. But it
seems to me that the most direct blessing that atomic
energy has brought to mankind may well be in the
preservation of food; for man first must eat.
Amazing advances are being made overseas in
the keeping of food by briefly exposing it to atomic
rays. After killing the bacteria that cause
deterioration, the rays pass through and leave the
food sterilised into a state of preservation.
In some research centres, special food-
irradiation reactors have been evolved for this very
purpose.
It is easy to see where this is leading: to the
saving of colossal waste through natural spoilage;
the breaking of seasonal gluts, a better distribution
of food to the world’s hungry; a reduction in the
need for refrigeration and long, swift haulage.
The treatment of meat is still experimental,
but the chief scientist of the Australian Atomic
Energy Commission, Mr. C. N. Watson-Munro,
said on his arrival in Australia in February that it
was possible our meat eventually would be treated
with radio-active isotopes and exported as non-
refrigerated cargo.
In so many ways —and not least in this new,
dramatic counter to famine and want —the Future
holds more for human progress than was dreamed
of in the past.
For Australians, a nation of food-producers, it
holds all the incentives to Faith and Courage that
any breed of people on Earth could desire.
// tfeetty
diggers and storekeepers, a
Chinese woman in silk trousers
said to be still alive in Mareeba
at over a hundred, and a special
group on its own. This depicts
a parson, umbrella over one
arm, linking hands with a light
lady of the town, while refusing
to do so with his neighbor, a
burly man in a large red
bandana.
“Well, he was a queer
character, too,” the publican
said, making Agnew’s point all
too clear. “He was a Commo
agitator back in the ’twenties.
Used to spruik on street-corners
in Townsville, and once,
when the police tried to arrest
him, chained himself to a tree.
An Oxford man, he was, too.
Finished up as a hermit in the
hills behind Cooktown and
died a couple of years back.”
It was a strange mixture, this
reconstruction of Cooktown’s
past. Garnett Agnew seemed
to have deliberately confused
his periods, treating history
sometimes in satirical fashion,
at others recognising its
moments of courage and
gallantry. What was refresh-
ing, I felt, was his refusal to
see it in the conventional terms
of piety, rejecting the adoles-
cent view which ranks some-
thing like the stand at Thermo-
pylae with the collective lust
for gain on a gold-digger's
spree. This was our heritage,
after all, along with the legend
of mateship and pioneering.
The settlement of Cooktown
opened-up the back-country
of Cape York Peninsula and
helped to civilise Papua, but it
was also a place where Chinese
coolies were Imported as cheap
labor in junks, then assaulted
and driven out of town, and
where blackbirders landed
their conscript labor from New
Guinea and the Torres Straits,
breeding that intensity of feel-
ing soon to fashion a White
Australia creed. Fossicking in
Cooktown for the matrix of
pioneering history, you come
upon many leads that contain
dubious ore, not always reflect-
ing the simple, too simple,
legends we have since invented
to rationalise our social origins.
There is not overmuch mate-
ship revealed in those murals
by Agnew. But there is a good
deal of humanity.
sounds faintly like a hillbilly ballad
and you’d better boil it W.R.A.:
A touch of atmosphere... .D.1.F.:
“The Perils of the Deep” is sunk
full fifty fathoms in bathos....
F.M.: Trifling J.E.: You’re on
the right track A.L.D.: Bit
jingly A.S.: Try a more natural
style S.J.: We can’t have “zebu”
rhyming with “caribou”....
A.M.A.: Rugger yarn didn’t rate a
try....8.L.: One or two good
touches K.E.: What’s wrong
with it? Well, it’s strident and
overwritten R. 0.: The “yam-
mering of the power-drill on the
bitumen” merely gave us- a head-
ache P.P.: it’s got something,
but not enough of it
W.M.T.: That “Sea Song” has been
sung and sung K.R.: Keep try-
ing. .. .L.O’M.: Ditto V.F.:
Album-verse R.: “The Burgling
Butler” shot through the livery.
. ...J.S.S.: The “terror-stricken”
girl with “nerve-wracked” counten-
ance can’t come in here... .S.J.:
'try reducing those cliches... .W. 1.:
Second stanza fair, but the other
three! T.M.: “The Grey
Plover” laid an egg in the basket.
P.M.: Just a glimpse of your
lines “written on the occasion of
the visit to Melbourne by Dame
Margot Fonteyn”:
What fools we are. What did we think
to see?
No mortal this, from fairyland is she
Lent to us only for the briefest space:
The rapt expression on that lovely face
Says, “This is how our fairy dancing’s
done,
I’ll stay awhile, but soon I must be
gone.”
L.K.: What a bunch of
larrikins! AT.: Poe did that
sort of thing better... .K. 8.5.:
Essays not for U5....M.C.: Didn’t
fancy those “nut-covered blobs of
ice-cream” swimming in a “sick
sea of passionfruit”.*.. .J.C.P.: Too
pontifical... .P.J.: Make your rail-
mgs at Fate rhythmic, at least
G.G.: “With gaze forlorn” your
MS is gorn... .U.T.: “Huskies”
busked... .A.W.; Not bad, for a
brst ,attempt... .F.F.: Ode to
mucb *9°. personal....
R-K.: You cerainly toss words
around reckl e s s 1 y... .M.T..
£h® rte n, polish, and resubmit. ...
y-T- , ® b 0 Tovy bere J* rt dlOU '
Ah, where.. ...M.W.: Those green
men from Neptune really come from
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
, nr/ ,
ars ’,
Encyclopaedic... .D.N.: It stumbles
along—b'ut in the right direction
0.J.: Try for looser sentence-con-
struction T.E.: Whimsical but
to ° for c e d... .E.R.R.. Bank-
robbers surely don t speak that
curious pidgin?.. E.S.: Admire
your plea tor a better deal tor
animals; but it reads like an injunc-
tion... .L.A.. Muddled.. ..0.M..
Come again.... R.M.J.: suspense
stories take more than that....
V.G.W.: The goat almost butted in.
. ...A.L.T.: Language hackneyed
and images (“flirting”) sentimental.
. ...J.R.: A snippet of Smiths:
Bridge-building Smiths and black-
smith Smiths
By no means are a myth;
Wherever you go you're bound to-find
The popular name of Smith.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
won a race immediately before
setting off on an overseas jaunt
looked to Moore to do the
The Horses
The 1956-57 racing season
concluded today (Wednesday).
All horses have a birthday
tomorrow with the commence-
ment of the 1957-58 term,
which gives promise of keen
racing.
• • • •
The three-year-olds especi-
ally should provide good racing,
for, on their two-year-old per-
formances, they comprise the
best of that age in years. It’s
likely, too, that the three-year-
olds will make it tough for the
older horses in the Cups and
other important handicaps of
the spring and autumn rounds.
Sydney racing gets into
stride with a new-season meet-
ing at Randwick next week-
end. The following Monday on
the same course sees the
running of the usual Corinthian
Handicap for amateur horse-
men.
Randwick course-proper is in
fine order for immediate racing.
Three records were made on
the track during the 1956-57
season. Two-year-old speedster
Todman ran five furlongs in
57fsec. in December, a new
Australian record. Advocate’s
1.49 b for nine furlongs in
September created new figures,
while Empire Link’s 10 furlongs
in 2.1}, also in September,
shattered the previous record.
T. J. Smith, leading trainer
for the season, won upwards
of £69,000 for clients at Sydney
meetings (61 firsts, 82 minor
placings), and added to the
total with successes in other
States. George Moore, top
jockey for the term, with 83
firsts, established a post-war
record.
Australian jockeys making
an overseas visit have a habit
of winning on their farewell
mount, which is just what
G. Moore did (on Prince
Jambo, short-priced favorite
for the Rosehill Flying Handi-
cap) before leaving for France.
Following a good second to
Akatarawa at Canterbury
Park, Prince Jambo had strong
claims for the Rosehill sprint;
and racegoers who remem-
bered that W. Cook, N. Sell-
wood and other jockeys had
same. Prince Jambo gave him
an easy ride, and the crowd
g ave them a big hand. The
five-year-old Prince Jambo is
raced by Mrs. Fil Allotta, wife
0 £ the Randwick trainer,
....
Dalstar? half-brother to Mel-
bourne Cup winner Dalray,
had an easy win in the S.T.C.
W i nter Cup at R ose hill. M. F.
Anderson, who also won the
first leg of the STC w j nter
double (the Winter Handicap,
w jth Gentle Lu, another New
Zealander), trains Dalstar at
Rosehill. Dalstar gave a lot
G f promise when he finished
third to Redcraze in last year’s
A j C Metropolitan Handicap.
He had previously won in
“Bring ’em back alive's the drill, Joe!"
lecord time at Rosehill. He
could make it interesting in the
A.J.C. Metropolitan this spring,
for, even if his Rosehill opposi-
tion was nothing classy, he did
all that was asked of him.
New Stand has had five
starts for three wins and two
seconds. Yet to win at seven
furlongs, he made a brilliant
first attempt at that distance
when, under 9.5 on a damp
track, he beat all but High-
rabou in the Rosehill
Quality Handicap for two-
year-olds. Under her light-
weight 7.6, Highrabou finished
fast on the inside of New Stand
to win narrowly. New Stand’s
only previous defeat was by
Todman, at Randwick on
December 22, when that
brilliant galloper recorded Aus-
tralia’s fastest time for five
furlongs. New Stand then had
a brief spell and in mid-
January won at Canterbury;
before the month ended he was
twice more successful —at
Randwick. As New Stand
hadn’t raced since January 28,
he will benefit from the Rose-
hill run. A brother to Wonder
Blue (a good winner in
Brisbane), he cost 170Qgns. as
a yearling.
• • • •
Rosehill trainer Tom
Kennedy and Queensland
grazier G.* A. Warby have
proved a successful twosome.
Kennedy in the past couple of
years has won 26 races with
Warby-owned horses. Last
week Paranilo (twice: Kembla
and Rosehill) and High Spot
(Warwick Farm) were success-
ful for the combination.
Paranilo had a 20-lengths’ lead
at one stage of the Rosehill
three - year - old mile - and-a -
quarter Novice Handicap—and
he won by eight, one of the
easiest wins on a city track in
months. Riders of his
opponents came in for some
criticism for allowing the geld-
ing to set up such a big lead,
but he’d have taken beating on
any tactics. Paranilo has now
won five races outside the city
area and in the city. Despite
those wins, he still has much
leeway to make up, for he
cost 5800gns. as a yearling at
the Randwick auction in 1955.
A brother to Queen Nilo, and
related to Rampion (a crack
galloper of his time), Paranilo
may soon repay expenses ; but
in open company he won’t get
a start.
Trainer Jim Wagner paid
1050gns. for the midweek
Warwick Farm Juvenile
Maiden Handicap winner Lord
Ray, whose success was antici-
pated following minor placings
at two previous outings. Mrs.
Wagner is racing the gelding,
who is by Sun King (imp.)
from Voler by Genetout (Fr.)
from La Caporale (Fr.) by
Craig an Eran. Lord Ray was
bred by P. Allan, of Willow
Tree.
• • • •
Progeny of the imported sire
Stokes by Micuxce (French
Derby and Grand Prix de
Paris) haven’t had many oppor-
tunities, but a few have been
winners. Another and a
cheap yearling at 180gns. at the
Randwick sales last year—was
Trent Maid at the midweek
fixture at Warwick Farm ; she
landed the Second Two-year-
old Maiden Handicap. Fred
Allsop trains her at Randwick.
Trent Maid battled on gamely
at the Farm to secure the
verdict in a photo-finish.
Related to Greensea, she is
from the Scorpion (imp.) mare
Pandinus, who traces to that
famous old stayer The Barb.
• • • •
Towards the end of a racing
season two-year-olds are fre-
quently set the task of beating
older horses, especially in
minor events. Bronze Pride,
a two-year-old by Gaekwar’s
Pride (imp.) from Becoming,
won in Maiden company
(against all ages) at the latest
Kembla fixture. He was an
odds-on favorite. The colt was
purchased by his part-owner
T. J. Ward, who also trains
him, for 900gns. at the Rand-
wick yearling-sales last year.
As he is related to True
Course, Carry On and Cherie
Marie, he could develop stay-
ing power in the new season.
Becoming was got by Le
Grand Due (Fr.) from
Enchantress by Constant Son
(imp.).
On the same afternoon as
Randwick trainer Fil Alloita
won with Prince Jambo at
Rosehill two of Allotta’s
former charges, Corsini and
Arson, were successful at the
Tpswich meeting Both are now
being trained by Brisbane
mentor Jack Booshand, who is
racing Arson in his own colors
and training Corsini for Mrs.
K. Ranger. Corsini won the
High-Weight Handicap in a
close finish from Die Corsican
and Alpine Law, both winners
at Randwick ; Arson was suc-
cessful in the First Novice
Handicap. Both Corsini and
Arson won races on Sydney
tracks in the season just ended.
The Davis brothers, George
(V.A.T.C.) and Charles
(V.R.C.), have issued weights
for the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups. Redcraze, of
course, heads both lists. He
could not have received any


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
.JACKSON £
OSUJUVAV
(A FOITU
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers. Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
less than his 10.3 in the Caul-
field Cup and 10.2 in the
Melbourne Cup. At his best,
those weights would not stop
him in either event ; but he is
now aged, and it is unlikely he
will recapture his wonderful
form of last spring.
The handsome New Zealander
Syntax is rated second-best
horse in Australasia ; he will
have to be every bit as good
as his reputation to win the
Caulfield Cup with 9.9 (41b.
over w.-f.-a.) or the Melbourne
with 9.7 (21b. over the scale).
Evening Peal, who carried
8.0 to win last year’s Mel-
bourne Cup, seems to have
been taken care of, with 8.12
in both Cups. Triple Sires’
Produce Stakes winner Tulloch
has paid the penalty for his
record, with 7.8 (21b. over
w.-f.-a.) in both events. Mac-
dougall is one horse who may
have beaten the handicappers.
Had he won this year’s Bris-
bane Cup—which he went
close to doing—he would have
been weighted much higher
than his 8.5 in the Caulfield
Cup and 8.4 in the Melbourne
Cup. Leading N.Z. three-year-
old Rhythmonic (winner at
his last six starts, and recently
sold to Sydney interests) has
received 8.11 in both races.
The handicappers < have
shown respect for New
Zealand form: 14 of the
highest-weighted 24 horses in
each Cup are from the
Dominion.
• • • •
Last three-year-old to win
the Melbourne Cup was Skip-
ton in 1941 ; he carried 7.7,
which included a 61b, penalty
and lib. overweight. Eight
years earlier Hall Mark won
the two-miler with 7.8, 21b.
above weight-for-age. Peter
Pan (1932) won the Cup with
7.6, as did Trivalve (1927).
The V.R.C. handicapper has
allotted Sydney colt Tulloch,
champion two-year-old of the
season just ended, 7.8 in this
year’s Melbourne Cup; a high
rating. The colt has to con-
cede 21b. to the speedy Todman
and to Prince Darius, another
classy youngster. More than
two-thirds of the Melbourne
Cup entrants have less than
7.7.
• • •
The Australian Hurdle, to be
decided at Caulfield next
Saturday, is the first leg of the
V.A.T.C.’s important jumping
double. It dates to 1892. Over
the years the distance has
varied from 2\ to 4 miles
—since 1945 it has been
decided over 2 miles 5 furlongs
and 65yds., with Elastin’s
4.52| in 1949 the best time for
that journey.
Roisel had a remarkable
record in the Caulfield double.
Although he was an aged horse
when he was put to jumping,
he won the hurdle three times
and the steeple twice. He was
actually 13 years old when he
won his second steeple in
1927, and he carried the
steadier of 12.9.
Although the Australian
Hurdle is sometimes regarded
as a consolation prize for
horses defeated in the Grand
National, half-a-dozen horses
have won the double, includ-
ing Pooley Bridge, who carried
12.5 in his Australian Hurdle
win in 1936, a performance
that has not been equalled.
For the Australian Hurdle:
Paid Up, 1 ; King Rheo, 2 ;
Braydor, 3.
• • • •
Bill Williamson, at present
holidaying in Queensland, won
this year’s Victorian jockeys’
premiership, his fifth. His 59
winning rides were eight less
than his own record, but
enough to give him a margin
of 26 winners over Ron
Hutchinson, his nearest rival.
Roy Shaw headed the trainers’
list for the first time ; he pre-
pared 21 winners and his
charges collected £27,785
stakemoney. Mac’s Amber
and Fighting Force were his
best winners. Father-and-son
team • A. C. and K. Dibb
were the leading local owners,
thanks entirely to Sailor’s
Guide; he won £15,850 in
Victoria for them. Actually
Mrs. A. B. Bradley, owner of
Redcraze, collected most Vic-
torian stakemoney “Red”
earned £22,500 for her.
Feature race at Moonee
Valley last Saturday was the
A. V. Hiskens Steeplechase.
Run over 2 miles 3\ furlongs,
the race is worth £2600, and
is the most important jump-
ing event in the M.V.R.C.'s
calendar. Making light of his
11.12, Valley specialist Van
Perri had the race in his keep-
ing at every stage, and was
being eased down to win by
six lengths. It was the Perri-
coota gelding’s tenth jumping
success around the circular
track, and the £1650 first prize
took his stake earnings to
£12,525, a sum bettered, by
only three other jumping horses
in Australia. In a neat speech
at 'the presentation ceremony,
jockey Brian Smith assured the
crowd which had given him
and the horse an enthusiastic
reception that he had a more
affectionate regard for Van
Perri than for any other horse
he had ridden. The winner
gets his jumping ability from
his grandsire, David, most
successful sire of cross-country
horses the Australian Turf has
known. Reg Ansett, of trans-
port renown, races Van Perri.
• • • •
It is rare for a two-year-old
to win in open company—
even so late in the season —but
Two Crowns bolted in with a
division of the Derrimut
Welter at the Valley. Last
spring Two Crowns mixed it
with the best youngsters in the
land, winning the Maribyrnong
Trial Stakes, and running an
unlucky third in the Debutant
Stakes. He lacks the stamina
for a classic win, but he should
do well in the sprint events
for this season’s three-year-
olds. He is by the imported
Sans Tache out of Dual
Crown.
It did not take the grey
Sydney sprinter Alahvii long
to justify his transfer to Mel-
bourne. The Nizami gelding,
having only his second start
for Caulfield trainer Basil
Conaghan, won the first divi-
sion of the Derrimut Welter
at Moonee Valley. It was only
by inches that he defeated Sir
William, reappearing after a
spell, and it was Ron Hutchin-
son’s strength that won the
day. It looks as if Sir William,
who won the Queen’s Cup in
the autumn, is in for another
successful season.
• • • •
Luire, a brilliant two-year-
old and a sound performer in
good-class three-year-old com-
pany last spring, looked an
outstanding bet in the weak
field that contested the third
division of the Derrimut
Welter. However, those race-
goers who accepted the tight
odds about her were thankful
to see her number go up in
the frame after a stern tussle
with the 50-to-l chance
Coloured Boy all the way up
the straight. Luire is by
Moondust (now standing in
the United States) out of Bay
Emborough, whose dam was
by Emborough, sire of the
great Bernborough.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
In Sydney Rugby Union’s
match-of-the-day Gordon beat
a weakened Randwick 25-9,
scoring four tries to none, as
it had done in their first-round
encounter. Gordon’s powerful set
of forwards spearheaded the win.
This was the Greens’ third succes-
sive loss, though they are still third
on the competition table, behind
Gordon and St. George, which
easily managed Parramatta 21-8.
In fourth place are Manly and
East, level a point behind ’Wick.
Manly beat North 17-0, while East
for most of what was a tight
forward game had Eastwood’s
measure, 18-9. Each team scored
three tries, with the balance of the
Bondi men’s points coming from
penalty-goals by Ray" Smee —though
he missed twice as many as he
kicked. Playing his first first-grade
game, East half-back Brian Thick-
nesse, son of former Rugby League
star half Viv, scored a try smin.
after the kiek-off, and showed
real promise. In the other game
Drummoyne, which is beginning to
earn “giantkiller” rating following
its win over Gordon the previous
game, slew University 12-8. The
Students, who had whitewashed
Drummoyne 37-0 last time they’d
met, scored the. only try of the
match... .The 1957 Sydney G.P.S.
Rugby Union comp, was won by
St. Joseph’s for the third year
running. On Saturday Joey’s beat
Grammar 17-6.
“Old Rep.”: The Fijian
Rugby Union team, now in the
early stage of its N.Z. tour, has


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for... .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 .months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z..
British Empire £2/18/0 Foreign £3/0/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
thus far lived up to its fore-
cast reputation of being the
best that the Islands have sent
abroad ; even better than the
1954 team. After playing a
draw with a strong Poverty
Bay side, it went on to dish
a Bay of Plenty XV by 22
to 3 ; and then, before 30,000
fans at Auckland, turned on a
thriller to down the home pro-
vince by 38 to 17. Good
judges say that in this game
the Fijians carried through
some of the best movertients
by a back division ever seen
in N.Z.—one try, in particular,
began in their own twenty-five
and involved every back.
Although the team is more
orthodox than its predecessors,
it has all of their dash and
enthusiasm, backed by any
amount of speed and weight.
(In the Auckland game they
outweighed the home side by
nearly 181 b. a man, a fact that
did not prevent the wingers
running away from their
opponents whenever the oppor-
tunity presented itself.) All
eyes and ears now to Welling-
ton, where, on August 10, the
big fellows meet the combined
Maoris, who recently beat a
very strong Barbarian side and
played in a way that raises
hopes of another Rugby epic.
• • • •
“’Wick”: Two of the four
players named by All Blacks’
coach Dick Everest after the
second Test in Brisbane as the
Australians he’d most like to
have in his N.Z. team are
Randwick men, breakaway
Keith Cross and winger Alan
Morton. (The others were the
two 18-year-old members of
Australia’s second-Test team,
fullback Terry Curley and
winger Brian Ford.) Other
experts besides Everest claimed
Cross to be the best forward
of both sides on the field in
Brisbane, while Morton was
similarly ranked among the
backs. Cross, who’s always
up with the play, is a fitting
successor to those two great
Randwick and Test break-
aways of not so long back, the
Windon brothers Keith and
Col; and the determined
Morton will well stand com-
parison with Randwick’s great
wingers of the past, Owen
Crossman, Bill White, Ward
and Hooton.
* * *
„, , ,
Sydneys weekend round of
Rugby League simplified the
tuss,e for the final t our onl y
a a on . interest
remains m the final lour rounds.
j n Saturday’s match-of-the-day—a
game marked by solid defence and
hard, straight runs—Wests stonkered
J— lj£h, ,m =
victory from Balmain 19-17, after
Churchill had landed a field-goal
* ith , the , scorc 17 ' 13 , So "} h / wa^-
Manly, playing a reshuffled team,
yet mana g ec j lo toss Canterbury 21-
!1 in a match not devoid of the
rough-’n’-tough. Easts, with the
experience of Mudge
(second-row) and Paskins (fullback)
showing out. was too purposeful a
XIII for Norths and won out
19 _ |6 Comp.-leaders St. George
went to Parramatta and brought
home the bacon 30-17, after trailing
f . or most of he c fi^ st half-
tnings now stand, St. George is still
at the head of the class, with 24
points, followed by a now rather
safe Manly, on 19. Balmain and
Souths, both 16, comprise the four,
with Wests (]5)? Eas[s (14)> New _
town (14) and Norths (13) hard at
their heels. Only Canterbury and
Parramatta have no chance —and
they meet next week.
*, * *
There was one change in “the
four” when the V.F.L. resumed
on Saturday—Hawthorn in and
Richmond out. Both are level
on match-points wfith Essendon,
which on Saturday was beaten by
Melbourne by one point—ll. 7-9.18.
Essendon had countless oppor-
tunities, and should have won. An
angry scene followed, with field-
umpire Schwab being menaced, when
he gave a free-kick to Melbourne
full-forward Webb in the last minute
of the game, after he had ruled that
Booth had deliberately kicked out;
Webb goaled from it. Hawthorn,
after four losses in a row, beat
North 7.13-5.4 in a dull game.
Carlton, in second place and secure
in the four, played brilliant football
to stop Foolscray 11.13-7.10.
Collingwood, . which, despite a.
couple of bad losses that seemed to
have settled it, still has a show of
making the final lour if it keeps win-
ning—and it has a comparatively
easy programme ahead —licked
Geelong 13.14-6.8. The Cats have
gone to the dogs—second-last on the
table now,, lowest they’ve been lor
many a year. Another cause of
Richmond's having to leave the four
(besides the Hawks’ win) was
South’s hard-fought, exciting five-
point win over the Tigers, 11.12-
10.13. In what could doubtless be
termed a non-title bout, having no
bearing whatever on the competi-
tion, St. Kilda whacked pore ol’
Filzroy 15.18-8.8.
“Kejokada”: Young Rich-
mond rover Ray Allsopp, who
with Roy Wright made-up the
Richmond pair in the touring
Victorian team against S.A. and
W.A., is a son of former N.S.W.
Sheffield Shield batsman
Arthur Allsopp, who moved
to Melbourne and played
cricket for Richmond for many
years. Ray Allsopp’s selection
in the Victorian side was criti-
cised, one reason being that
this was only the first year he’d
consolidated his place with the
Tigers’ firsts ; but he answered
the criticism by a brilliant effort
of six goals against Colling-
wood in the game before he
left for the West. Against S.A.
he kicked only one goal, but
was unlucky in twice hitting
the uprights, and he was named
one of the best in the first
match against W.A.
“Atala”: I read the other
day where a young S.A. country
full-forward in the Torrens
Valley Association, Trevor
Zilm, had kicked 100 goals in
10 games this season. In four
successive games he'd kicked
14, 11, 15 and 18 goals, and the
18 goals had come from 18
shots. That’s good shooting.
Even allowing for weak opposi-
tion in defence, he’s still got
to have a particularly straight
boot to put them through..
• • • •
“Veryl”: Inter-State foot-
ball-games have been under
fire again in Melbourne by
those who want football con-
fined to V.F.L. club-games.
Some of the criticism this year
has verged on hysteria. In
Sydney some Rugby League
critics have demanded that
inter-State and international
games be abolished. I’d like
to know how the stars them-
selves feel about it. In Mel-
bourne it’s said that they
aren’t really keen on winning
and wearing a Victorian
guernsey. They must feel
differently about it than the
cricketer, who is never so
happy as when he first wins
Sheffield Shield selection.
“K erpz”: Richmond
skipper and centre-half-back
Des (“Yul”) Rowe has said that
this will be his last in big foot-
ball. Turning 32 later this year,
he joined Richmond in 1946
from Coburg (V.F.A.), and has
played nearly 200 games with
the Tigers. He captained Vic-
toria against S.A. and W.A.
in 1955, and was with Victoria
at the 1953 and 1956 carnivals.
* * *
Weekend sporting mixed-
grill : In Brisbane, at Soccer,
Ferencvaros (Hungary) coasted
along to thrash an outclassed
but always-trying Hong Kong 10-2.
The next day Ferencvaros beat
Queensland 5 - I.... England
defeated West Indies by an innings
and five runs in the fourth cricket
lest, to win the series. It was over
in three days, as was also the case
in England's innings win in the
second lest Olympian Dave
Power won the 10,000-metres cross-
country race (run at Centennial Park,
Sydney) in 33min. 14sec.; the two
unrelated Thomases, Albert and
Graham, filled the places... .Dutch
girl swimmer Jans Koster bettered
her own 1500-metres world freestyle
record (20min. 3.lsec. her new time.).
* * *
When lightweight Russell
Sands clambered
through the ropes at Sydney
Stadium to take on the highly-
rated Mexican Ray Riajos
(9.9|), he was the underdog—
as he had been in his previous
three scraps. On his punishing
12-round points-defeat of the
Mexican, the club - footed
youngest brother of Dave
Sands could only be under-
dog for his next stoush at
Rushcutter if he was going in
with a world champ, two divi-
sions heavier. Riojas, in his
debut here, pasted Australian
lightweight champ. George
Bracken: he had Bracken on
the canvas five times before
taking the fight in the fourth.
Her had Sands down, too—for
a nine count in the fifth ; but
this fellow doesn’t wince at
the drop of a hat. He’s a
promising boy.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Australia Unlimited ?
Too few people in the com-
munity try to jolt politicians
into some statesmanship, into
lifting their sights for a few
moments from the constant
bickering of politics to the long-
range thinking which Australia
desperately needs. One of the
few is Sir lan Clunies Ross,
many of whose ideas are
politically unpopular but who
at least tries to stir the con-
sciences of those who “control
the destinies of the nation.”
We get in Parliament
occasionally some economic
reviews and some statements on
foreign affairs. These are
usually debated briefly by
members who are mostly lazy
or ignorant, or both. Some day
a member who has done a bit
of studying and thinking will
electrify the Parliament and the
nation by summing-up our
prospects for the next half-
century. He will examine our
trade prospects, our relations
with our Asian neighbors, the
likely growth of populations in
Australia itself, in New Guinea
and in near-by Asia, the geo-
political aspects of relations in
both the Pacific and Indian
Ocean areas, the possible
targets for our enterprise and
for the gradual elimination of
heavy-handed Canberra con-
trols over the normal processes
of living and earning.
In some ways, “Bill” Went-
worth tries to do this, but his
ideas, while usually original,
are sometimes clouded by
degrees of prejudice. Time will
show how far many of his
judgments are right, but as a
stimulating force he is in too
much of a minority to be really
effective.
We need many more
members equally prepared to
think and speak with originality
and emphasis, and in particular
we need Ministers who can
devote some time to thought
and study and who can there-
upon offer some thoughtful
leadership for the crucial 50
years ahead. Engineers can
estimate what our water and
power requirements may be in
that period, and can inaugurate
steps for meeting them on due
dates. Why on earth can’t our
politicians, who are equally
highly paid but apparently far
less resourceful, settle them-
selves down with the corres-
ponding but more important
problems of development, pro-
gress and survival?
We may have “a future of
limitless possibilities,” in the
vague words of a typical
political cliche, but we won’t
realise our possibilities unless
someone does something about
them at once. Ex-ACT
(N.S.W.).
“The White Man’s
Burden”
In The Bulletin of June 13,
1956, there appeared a letter,
“The White Man’s Burden,”
which carried the nom-de-
plume “C.C.C., N.Z.,” and it
related to matters in Fiji.
Recently, in Fiji, this letter
figured prominently in a cer-
tain libel action, and was de-
scribed by counsel as a farrago
of nonsense, and full of in-
accuracies. I know for a fact
that many in Fiji concluded I
was the writer of the letter.
Apart from being born there,
I visit Fiji frequently, and am
well known there in the legal
world, and as a newspaper-
correspondent.
As you are aware, I was not
the writer of that letter. Will
you be good enough to publish
this letter so as to make that
point clear? —C. C. Chalmers,
14 Beresford Street, Bayswater,
N. 3, Auckland, N.Z.
[The Bulletin confirms that
Mr. Chalmers was not the
writer of the letter headed “The
White Man’s Burden” pub-
lished in the issue of June 13,
1956. Nor were the initials
of the writer “C.C.C.,” that
being simply a nom-de-plume.
The writer did not live in
Auckland, either, but in the
South Island of N.Z:]
Tobacco
According to the report of a
group of overseas experts who
visited Texas and Mareeba
(Q.) shortly after the establish-
ment of tobacco - growing
there, Australian leaf may
“compare favorably with the
world’s best in texture”
(B. 10/7/’57), but certainly not
in moisture-content.
In the report cited it was
stated that, while the plant
grown at both Texas and
Mareeba was of good quality,
the fierceness of the sun in
those parts dried the leaf too
quickly, thereby “sapping” or
deleteriously affecting its
moisture-content and, conse-
quently, its flavor.
Also, “Nicodemus” may be
right in asserting that the
taste of our leaf is no worse
than Turkish (a left-handed
compliment in itself), but he
errs in ranking it equal to
Virginian. Actually, manufac-
turers have found that only
heavy blending of Virginian
leaf with Australian gives a
taste and flavor acceptable to
the Australian demand.
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
As a pipe-smoker for over
60 years, I disagree with
“Nicodemus” in his advocacy
of the virtues of Australian
tobacco. He evidently never
enjoyed the excellent Virginian
varieties to which we old
smokers were accustomed
before Australia became a
grower.
The climates and soils of
Virginia, Rhodesia and Turkey
all produced distinct, though
widely different, flavors. I
have never been able to detect
any distinct flavor with our
product. My smoke nowadays
has to be the rather expensive
British brands, but, as a pipeful
lasts nearly twice as long as
ours, it is not so uneconomical
as one might think.
“Nicodemus” is probably
correct in defining the aim of
our growers as quantity, not
quality. I have smoked some
experimentally 'grown New
Guinea tobacco that has a
good flavor, so there may be
a future for our smokers there.
—Justin Thyme (N.S.W.).
Nothing in Writing
The method used to avoid
giving written answers to
written inquiries by a Govern-
ment department (B. 17/7/’57)
succeeds only because the
people at the receiving end are
apparently content to be so
treated. There is no doubt that
such things are done, and if
the officers who perpetrate them
think they are being clever,
some study of the field of
records-management would
soon reveal that they are acting
with crass inefficiency.
There is a time not too far
distant when the emphasis on
records-management will be
such that it will not be possible
for an officer to whom papers
are referred for action to get
away with it by simply scrawl-
ing a minute—“ Told Bill Smith
“ Ready — aim ”-


Al \
Mz.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
Every woman needs a
little bit of gossip now
and again. Your women-
folk will find the chat-
tiest, most intimate and
intensely human gossip
anywhere in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
to tell district inspector to tell
Mr. Blank the answer is No”—
and regard that as the finish of
the transaction. Every in letter
requires an out letter in reply,
even if it is diplomatically
worded. Moreover, if the in-
formation requested is not
readily available the inquiry
should be acknowledged in the
interim.
The public should, however,
insist on written replies, and
not offer encouragement to
such practices by accepting any
other form of reply, or by let-
ting the matter lapse. That
applies with equal force to
the world of/ commerce.—
Kemberry (A.C.T.).
Bankrupts
As Arthur Falk says (B.
19/6/’57), lack of training in
basic business principles is a
large factor in failures, but
there are ‘other causes.
Ihe outlook of the person
starting in business is
important. If he starts off with
the idea of working hard and
living more sparingly than
when an employee, he will
succeed given only reasonable
conditions. If the dominant
thought in his mind is that he
will be as good as or better than
his erstwhile boss he will not
succeed.
One of the predominant
reasons for bankruptcies is the
fact that some men, as soon as
they have their own concern,
believe that they can spend an
hour a day at the local and all
will be well. There was never
such a fallacy. The owner
of a small show cannot,afford
to do that; he must be con-
stantly on the job, either
actively or in his thinking.
His personal expenses and
habits must be watched. This
is essential to maintain effici-
ency and build-up reserves of
health and funds. Likewise, his
domestic life becomes a factor.
Many a man can attribute
advancement to a capably
managed home.
His views towards his fellow-
men must change. No longer
can he be the independent
individual ; he must become
watchful of his attitude towards
others so as not to give offence ;
at the same time he must sense
opportunities offered by meet-
ing others, especially to build-
up goodwill.
Summing-up, the small
trader, contractor, businessman,
etc., needs good common
horse-sense, economy, assist-
ance from his family, and plain
hard work. These are the main
attributes needed, and it will be
found that most bankrupts have
been lacking in these funda-
mentals. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.)
Hard Work
Like “Simpleton” (B.
10/7/’57), I am sceptical about
the alleged value of hard work
and believe that the material
benefits to be derived from it
are grossly exaggerated.
The notion that hard work
leads to success in business
and to the accumulation of
wealth is one that employers,
very naturally, instil into the
minds of their employees.
And, in so far as the prosperity
of an organisation reflects it-
self in better working condi-
tions and slightly higher wages
than average, the idea may be
of some slight benefit to the
employees. But whether it
really profits an employee to
work hard—whether, in fact,
hard work is the high road to
fortune and independence—is
a very different question.
Most of the successful men
I’ve known have not been keen
on hard work ; they've been
anxious to avoid it—hard
work, that is, as understood by
the ordinary wage-slave. Of
course they are “always on the
go,” as they put it—luncheon
or dinner engagements every
day, board-meetings every
week, inter-State air-trips every
month or so, overseas trips now
and then. They could hardly
be expected to concern them-
selves with the tiresome details,
the exacting concentrated
mental effoits, that keep their
businesses ticking-over profit-
Even- their own accounts of
their rise to affluence don't
suggest that they ever worked
any harder than the average
chap. The Contrary is often
the case. The conscientious,
plodding type who works hard
for his boss as a young man
ends up at 65 still working for
a boss, whereas the fellow who
is bored by routine, who
doesn't see why he should
grind at accounts while others
play golf, who fancies that he
is as smart as the next chap and
will risk every penny he can
borrow in trying to prove it —
he sometimes finishes on top.
If he doesn’t, he saves or
borrows and tries again ; when
and if he does succeed, he's a
shining example of what enter-
prise and “hard work” can
achieve.
In nine cases out of ten, the
successful chap is not the
fellow with the highest quali-
fications or intelligence, but the
one who is willing to take a
chance and back himself to
win ; the one who keeps con-
fidence in himself and his ideas
until the luck of business
breaks his way.— Wusslean
(Vic.),
Civilised living, material
prosperity, food enough for
everyone—all these would be
impossible without a certain
amount of hard work. Great
cities, great nations could never
have arisen, and the arts and
sciences would have barely
developed,
But when “Simpleton” writes
of .. hard wor|c „ as being un .
desirable he means, 1 think,
men who work long hours—
those with two jobs. Such men
might work long hours, but it’s
doubtful whether they do very
much “hard work.”
For instance, I know of men
who work in one factory from
7 a.m. to 3 p.rn., then walk a
few blocks down the street to
work in another from 3 to 11.
One chap I know has a 9-to-5
job, then drives a taxi to the
wee sma’ hours next morning,
Do such men work “hard”?
Others work long periods of
overtime at their own jobs,
None of them can possibly give
of their best all the time, day
in, day out.
With few exceptions, such
as severe illness in his family,
“hard work” (meaning long
hours) is certainly not “the
answer to anything.” Most
“hungry” people I know (and


I here include most husband-
and-wife teams who work) are
not working these long hours
because of illness-caused finan-
cial troubles, nor simply for a
home. Mostly they’re after a
latest-possible-model car, a
TV-set, a radiogram or un-
necessary knick-knacks around
the house—usually, of course,
they’re after the lot.
What has further impressed
me about such workers-of-long-
hours is that the acquisition of
these possessions gives them no
more satisfaction (as I’ve
said, they’re always after a
later-model car). By :heir own
nature they cannot get from
their new toys any real appre-
ciation and enjoyment of living.
For most are uninterested in
the arts and culture generally,
few ever read a worth-while
book, many are not even in-
terested in sport. With such a
lack of interest in things, how
can ownership of a TV-set give
them anything?
Like “Simpleton,” I'm happy
as long as I can afford to buy
one or two luxuries like books
and beer. In H. D. F. Kitto’s
authoritative work on the
ancient Greeks, he points out
what is worth noting today:
that the leisure the Athenians
enjoyed (and used so profit-
ably) was due, not, as is often
thought, to slavery, but to the
fact that three-quarters of the
things we slave for the Greek
simply did without.
I prefer to go without many
things, too, and not work my-
self to death to own a TV-set.
—Kejokada (Vic.).
Safe Place for Car-thieves
I disagree entirely with
“S.Y.S.” (B. 3 / 7 / ’57).
More than a year ago the
Victorian Government brought
down legislation which, it was
claimed, would virtually outlaw
the car-thief—or “illegal user,”
if you like—in Victoria.
Car - owners, particularly
those who had suffered loss and
inconvenience through their
vehicles being tampered with,
driven off until petrol gave out
and then stripped, or merely
abandoned after brief but
damaging use, felt that it was
about time the State did some-
thing to protect its citizens'
property, and to reduce the
rising number of car-thefts.
At first glance, the legislation
was certainly reassuring. It
provided for jail-sentences up
to a maximum of 10 years for
car-stealing ; “illegal users”
were liable to a fine of £lOO or
twelve months’ jail, or both,
for a first offence, and up to five
years’ jail for conviction on a
subsequent offence. But the
“get tough” policy fell down
sadly when it came to
enforcement.
Magistrates hesitated to use
their powers to anything like
the full extent that was
expected, though it was obvious
to everyone that half-measures
were useless with the type, of
offender who tampers with or
steals cars. In fact, the general
practice has been to treat all
convicted persons as first-
offenders, the Bench having
formed the notion —upon what
grounds, except that of compas-
sion, nobody seems to know—
that offences committed under
previous legislation cannot be
taken into consideration when
dealing with offenders under
the new Act. In other words,
car-thieves and illegal users
have been treated as if the
Bolte Government’s car-stealing
legislation gave them all a fresh
start, wiping out their previous
convictions.
And though the folly of
imposing “bonds” on car-
thieves has been demonstrated
time and again, and the new
legislation was a pretty direct
hint to the Bench to make its
penalties something to be
leared, “bonds” are still being
given. A recent example was
that of a storeman who was
arrested at Euroa (Vic.) in a
car he had taken from Mel-
bourne. Pleading guilty to hav-
ing illegally used the car, the
storeman claimed he had heard
his wife and children were ill
in Albury and decided to take
a car as it was too late to catch
a train. He admitted altering
the numberplate, but said he
had hoped it would escape
notice until he had time to
return the car.
He was sentenced to six
months’ jail on an illegal-using
charge, but as if to indicate
that the court was merely
joking, he was immediately
released on a £5O bond to be
“of good behavior” for three
years, and fined £5 with trifling
costs for altering the number-
plate!
Is it any wonder, then, that
in spite of the “get tough”
legislation, car-stealing in Vic-
toria is still increasing? In
1955, 4003 vehicles were
reported stolen ; in 1956, 4806.
And before six months of 1957
were quite over, 2502 vehicles
had been reported stolen.
Victoria, in short, is still a
safe place for car-thieves —a
place where a hardened
offender can still hope for
favored “first-offender’’ treat-
ment, and where the most
brazen “borrowing” of another
man’s property and driving it
across the State can be
punished by an almost wholly
useless “bond.” D. J. G.
(Vic.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 445
Across
I—Two1 —Two biblical characters among the odds and ends. (3-3)
4 —Study a kitchen vessel with Jolson in respect of wedlock.
(8) . . ,
10— How the seats of the trousers are worn out in spite of
that. (15)
11 — Beat the venerable doorstep. (9)
13— Flowing and ebbing periodically. (5)
14 — Latin thing by fur can be sprinkled. (11)
17— You get a horse by swallowing
one. (3)
18 — Do you use a stainer? (3)
19— The sporting organisation of the
Trench swell behaved
temperamentally. (3, 3,5)
22 — American soldier obtained a leg
of mutton. (5)
23 Publicity girl and I on a state-
ment sought by a torturer. (9)
25 —Religion which causes a police
miss pain. (15)
27 — Master surrounding a private
American master in ancient
Rome. (8)
28 — Sunburn on the German vehicle
included in the marriage-offer
of Daisy’s boy-friend. (6)
Down
1— Caretaker has New Year’s Day
on the rocky mountain. (7)
2 Snapper fragment given to the
Queen. (5)
3 Teature of the middle of a
costumed Japanese or of Robin.
(3)
5 txpelled the French alternative to
Edouard. (5)
6 The women who correspond with
1-down are fitted with Hogmanay
locks. (11)
7 —Leer expert on the French can
be ground. (9)
8 — A joint contributor to joint
action within the law. (7)
9 Young stems the disapproval in
the steamer drills. (6)
12 —Holy fish’s clock sounds like the
B.H.P.’s accumulated output.
(5, 6)
15 —Sounds like a killing sport with
18-down, so sing about Vivien.
(9)
16—0 b.c. (3)
18 —-Mush is said to stir this draught
which has got made the wrong
way. (3-4)
20— Am I to interrupt the witness
who saw Cock Robin kick the
bucket hostages to fortune? (6)
21— At the least this is the mother
of Ginger Meggs’s girl-friend.
(7)
23 Canadian emblem spoilt plenty.
(5)
24 — Yours Truly competed against
others with creepers on. (5)
26—A Georgia Moslem of consider-
able influence. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 444


Women's Letters
MELBOUPNE
Clever and amusing sketches of well-
known meeting-places, such as Flinders
Street station, Luna Park, etc. (all the
work of Franeine D’Abry), decorated
Ciro’s for the July Rendezvous, a dinner-
dance organised by the Younger Mem-
bers group of the English Speaking
Union. Before dinner group-president
Pamela Middleton and committee-
member Mrs. W. Banks entertained the
guests at a sherry-party at the same
rendezvous —an excellent way of getting
guests on time for a big function. Pamela
wore a lovely formal gown of
champagne-pink paper-shantung, the
strapless bodice clustered with colored
beads and pearls. Mrs. Banks chose a
short frock of primrose-yellow chiffon
and a Ming-blue satin coat.
Among the guests were E.S.U. secre-
tary Air-Commodore Ewart and Mrs.
Ewart, Mr. and Mrs. W. Wark, Mr. and
Mrs. Scott Breckenridge (she wearing a
brilliant-red faille frock and matching
stole), Mr. and Mrs. David Warford
Mein, Professor and Mrs. Sunderland,
Dr. and Mrs. Reg Wooster, Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Jullyan (her short frock of emerald-
green chiffon worn with a white Arcfic-
fox stole), Mr. and Mrs. Max Dietrich,
Mr. and Mrs. James Alston, Dr. Clive
Coogan and his wife (the former Anne
Spraggett; her short frock of pink white-
spotted faiile was topped with a pale-
blue velvet stole), Patricia Heath and her
fiance, Graham Law.
☆ ☆ ☆
Members of the R.A.A.F. Women’s
Association are right on their toes to
make this year’s Battle of Britain Ball
bigger and brighter than ever. Taking
the form of a dinner-ball, it will be held
at the Palais de Danse, St. Kilda, on
September 12 under the patronage of
Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund Herring.
Tickets are obtainable from Mrs. S. L.
Granville (MU9258 or W 83748).
Planning is in the hands of the president
of the R.A.A.F. Women’s Association
(Mrs. E. C. Wackett), the secretary (Mrs.
J. W. Nankivell), the treasurer (Mrs.
W. J. Cameron), Lady Williams, Mrs.
L. F. Donnelly, Mrs. John Hussey, Mrs.
E. Gentle, Mrs. W. N. Gibson and Mrs.
D. Kingswell.
* ☆ tsr
Looking fresh and vital, Dame Sybil
Thorndike and her husband, Sir Lewis
Casson, flew into town last week and were
met at the airport by son John Casson
and granddaughter Penny. Their other
granddaughter, Jane (at present in
hospital with appendicitis), will appear
with the famous pair in Enid Bagnold’s
“The Chalk Garden.”
Gillian Pain has the distinction of being
the youngest public-relations officer in
this city—she is with the Spastic Children's
Society of Victoria. Included in her work
is arranging for the children interesting
excursions and entertainment (this lately
giving them a Dame Margot Fonteyn
matinee). The only daughter of Mrs.
Penn and the late Colonel John Pain,
Gillian was educated at St. Catherine's.
Japanese Ambassador Tadakatsu
Susuki and his wife (she wearing a
beautiful azure-blue kimono embossed in
gold and black and highlighted with a
pink obi) were guests-of-honor at a
reception given at the Town Hall by
Lord Mayor Sir Frank Selleck and Lady
Selleck. On the official dais were Mrs.
R. G. Casey, Mrs. McEwen (wife of the
Minister for Trade and Customs) and
Mrs. A. Rylah. Among those who
attended were Mrs. J. R. Ferguson (just
back from overseas), Mr. and Mrs. E.
Doyle, Dame Mary Daly, Mrs. Ray
Joseph, Mrs. C. Janssen and Mrs. Leslie
Coleman.
£ ☆ a
Newman College Chapel was the setting
for the marriage of Patricia, only
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Cooper,
of Hawthorn, and Roger, younger son of
Colonel and Mrs. A. F. Hopkins, of
Bayswater. The bride’s full-skirted gown
of white delustred satin had long sleeves
and a panel of guipure-lace forming a
V at the waist. A circlet of white satin
roses held the fingertip tulle veil, and she
carried white cyclamens. The brides-
maids, Patricia Morrisey and Judy
Cooper (cousin of the bride), wore long
frocks of cream-and-gold brocade with
matching stoles, these being also lined
with pale-gold velvet to match the Alice
bands in their hair. Their bouquets were
of cream hyacinths and gold ivy-leaves.
Flower-girl Susan Clarke wore a long
frock of white organdie and she carried
cream hyacinths. Best man was Richard
Ivers and groomsman Dr. Leo Cussen.
Reception was at Glendower, Queens
Road.
☆ ☆ ☆
At the premiere of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s production of “The
Relapse” at the Comedy fur-coats, stoles,
velvet and quilted-satin evening-coats and
ballerina-frocks were the choice of most
women—the long, formal gown seems to
have almost disappeared.
Lady Latham, who accompanied Sir
John (he is the president of the Trust),
chose a short dove-grey lace frock and a
grey Arctic-fox cape. With the Lord
Mayor, Sir Frank Selleck, was Lady
Selleck, her. green chiffons made with a
finely-pleated skirt and beaded bodice.
Mrs. Aubrey Gibson’s short frock in
hibiscus-red taffeta was worn with a dyed-
ermine coat.
Mrs. Massey Burnside wore a short
black velvet frock and a mink coat.
Mrs. W. Lempriere’s frock was of lipstick-
pink faille. A lovely white Arctic-fox
stole was worn by Lady Dowling over a
gown of ice-blue lame. Under a full-
length fur coat Mrs. V. Parslow (w'hose
son Frederick played the role of Lord
Foppington’s brother) wore a dove-grey
faille frock patterned with tiny pink roses.
Roger Livesey and his wife Ursula
Jeans were also in the audience. They
are off for a short holiday on the Barrier
Reef before returning to begin rehearsals
for their new play, which opens in
Sydney in September.
* ☆ tr
A number of guests were entertained
by members of the Oxford Society to
meet Mr. Alan Brown, of Worcester
College, Oxford, and his wife. A former
Geelong Grammarian, Mr. Brown is now
an Oxford Don and is here for the
Geelong Grammar School’s centenary.
The party was held at the house of the
University’s Vice-Chancellor, Sir George
Paton, who, with Lady Paton and the
society’s Victorian president, Sir John
Medley, received the guests.
Lady Paton wore a bronze-and-black
brocade suit, Mrs. Brown a currant-red
suit and a small black velvet cap. Former
Oxford students Associate - Professor
Kathleen Fitzgerald and Dr. Margaret
Chattaway were among the guests; so
were Sir Maurice and Lady Hutton, Dr.
and Mrs. J. R. Darling (Geelong
Grammar School), Mr. and Mrs. B. W.
Hone (Melbourne Grammar School), Mr.
and Mrs. Colin Gilray (he is Deputy
Chancellor of the University), Mr.
Michael Tbwaites and Dr. and Mrs. C. E.
Beveridge.
CANBERRA
Many inter-State visitors came to Can-
berra for the annual Winter Ball given
by the Corps of Staff Cadets at the Royal
Military College, Duntroon. Snowdrifts
and a timber chalet, complete with model
skiers and snowmen, decorated the
cadets’ mess, where more than 500 guests


danced. Large blue-and-white coafeff?*
filled balloons were released during th@
evening, adding to the gaiety. Guests
were received by Senior Under-Officer
L. Lynch and Mrs. F. G. Hassett, hef
bouffant-skirted frock in green-and-whit®
patterned organdie. Commandant R.M.C.,
Major-General J. G. N. Wilton, was
present with Mrs. Wilton, her full-
length gown in champagne organza
embroidered with pearls and rhinestones.
Also noted Colonel D. Daunt and
Colonel F. G. Hassett; Major and Mrs.
John Stevenson ; Major J. Stubbs
and his wife, who wore jade-satin shoes
and matching earrings with her black-
lace frock ; adjutant Captain O'Neill;
and Captain and Mrs, Morrison.
A pretty lilac tulle ballerina was worn
by Miss Julie Kandy, of Bellevue Hill,
Sydney; Miss Sandra Sutherland chose
pink-satin shoes with her attractive
caramel faille ballerina ; Miss Judy
Morrison, of Sydney, looked graceful in
a frock of silver-and-white striped nylon ;
Miss Cynthia Purchase, of Canberra, who
.was celebrating her engagement to Cadet
Richard Willing, wore an off-the-shoufder
frock in blue-and-white coin-spot silk.
Prized athletic trophies were on dis-
play ; also a silver “days-t®-go” calendar
recording 137 days to Graduation.
SYDNEY
Theatre - seats, concert - seats, pews,
bleachers, etc., were rather scantily
occupied during the week, and the people
who had “struggled up from a bed of
sickness” or were about to retreat to same
were numerous. Still, surprising numbers
of the population are still on their feet,
.despite the 'flu, Asian or otherwise, and
there was no social function that had to
be cancelled.
☆ ☆ *
The fashion highlight of the week was
the lingerie display given by Kaysers Pty.,
Ltd., at the Pickwick Club. The shortee-
nightgown and the baby-doll pyjamas,
particularly in filmy nylon, seem to be
the thing for this season, though the
graceful, floating ankle-length night-
gownS( shown seemed to be the ultimate
in glamor. Especially admired were the
Grecian-line nightgowns and pyjamas,
which left one shoulder bare and were
banded at the midriff. The luminous
panties, brightly colored —pira,te-pink
very conspicuous—were strictly for the
Calypso-minded.
☆ ☆ ☆
Fashion-shows are now budding and
will bloom in August. The Crippled
Children's Society of N.S.W. will receive
the entire proceeds of the two presenta-
tions given by Melbourne designer Hall
Ludlow at Glen Ascham on August 6 and
7. It will be remembered that one of Hal!
Ludlow’s designs won the Olympic Award
last year for “The Gown of the Year.”
Following close on this, an afternoon
parade will be held at Prince's on August
£ in aid of United Nations. It will feature
“after-five” fashions and is being
Organised by Miss Evelyn Gardiner. Then
tfr® gala preview of Sybil Connolley’s
World-famous Irish fashions will be a
Social highlight at David Jones’ on August
i 0» Sydney designer Beril Jents will give a
parade of her spring and summer range at
the Trocadero on Wednesday the 14th
in aid of the Royal N.S.W. Institution for
Deaf and Blind Children, and Anne
Collins shows her spring hats on August
20. So by the end of the month we will
be fairly well informed on how we ought
to look for the coming summer.
☆ ☆ ☆
Then there is the Spring Parade at
Legion House next Saturday night,
beginning at 7.30. A feature of this will
be the exotic Indian gowns shown by
Vimala Varskaran, a lovely young
medical student from Penang. Proceeds
of this parade will aid the candidature
of Margaret Keirins in the Princess
Competition for Associated Catholic.
Charities.
V # #
Though the ’flu took its toll of numbers
for the musicale arranged by Mrs. Hope
Gibson in aid of the Lady Mayoress's
Relief Fund, there was still a large gather-
ing to hear the delightful music provided.
Baritone Stewart Harvey bravely fought
the 'flu tc- give a bracket of songs, but
had to flee home at half-time. However,
soprano Linda Parker filled the breach
with a number of folksongs, sung to her
own accompaniment on the guitar.
Linda Parker, by the way, has now
come to Sydney from Melbourne to live,
as her husband, Mr. Victor Walmsley,
has been transferred to this city by the
Commonwealth Bank. They have bought
a house at Northbridge and plan to start
reorganising and renovating it within a
month. Meanwhile Linda is busy with
her TV commitments ; she is to give
three recitals for ABN shortly.
Lesley Blackeby, daughter of Mr. and
Airs. F. R. Blackeby, of Concord, has
just announced her engagement to John
Bryden. son of Mr. and Mrs. J.D . Bryden,
of Blackheath. Lesley is wearing a lovely
diamond ring in an unusual design. Photo
by Norton Trevaire.
Author Mabel Wain Smith was a new
member welcomed at this month’s
luncheon of the Australian Women
Writers. Her new book about Mongolia,
Land of the Swift Running Horses, haS
been well received overseas, and sh®
reports that requests for the rights of
European translation are now coming itt.
Mrs. Max Murray, with whom she was
having a chat, said that royalties from
European editions of her books (she i$
author Maysie Greig, of course) had
brought her in £3OOO in one year. “But,
of course,” she added, “after taxation
there’s nothing like that left.” Maysie,
by the way, is having an enormous party
at her Vaucluse home on Friday to cele-
brate the publication of her 150th novel.
3} 3} V
So the Opera House will probably be
called the Royal Sydney Opera House and
not the ytolian Hall or the Cultural
Auditoria or other fancy name. To
call it Bcnelong Hall (the best of the
suggestions) would result /in its being
referred to as Ben Hall, which would
rather overemphasise our interest in
bushrangers. The objection to the name
Opera House is that not only opera will
be pei formed there. But the word “opera”
is the plural of “opus,” which is generally
understood to mean a work of art, so
Opera House is quite correct, really.
' * ☆
Agnes Scobie, well-known Sydney
University identity (she is adviser to
women students), is off by air this week
to spend five months in the U.S. and
Canada. Under a grant from the Car-
negie Corporation of New York she will
look over universities in both countries
and their students’ personnel services. On
her way to America she will spend a
few days in Djakarta with her sister,
Mrs. J. M. McMillan, whose husband is
Counsellor to the Australian Embassy.
Women members of the University staff
gave a farew'ell lunch to Miss Scobie at
Manning House last Friday.
☆ ☆ ☆
Many country people attended the
wedding on Saturday of Margaret Bryant
to John Hendriks at Rivqrview College
Chapel. Margaret is the daughter of the
J. D. Bryants of Mt. Mulyah, Bourke,
and John the son of Mr. H. B. Hendriks,
of Killara, and the late Mrs. Hendriks.
Margaret's six attendents were Mrs.
Maurice Walsh, Mrs. John McDonald
(Sth. Grafton), Mrs. Peter Bryant
(Bourke), Maureen Murray (Bourke),
Wendy Burrell (Griffith) and
Phyllis Hagerty (Brewarrina). Attending
the bridegroom were John Playoust (best
man) and Harry Hendriks, Peter Bryant,
lan Glover, Robert O'Brien and Pat
McGrath. The reception was held at the
Hotel Australia.
3t- V v
A ball to celebrate the centenary of an
organisation is rare in Sydney, so the St.
Vincent's Hospital Celebration Ball should
be a really special affair. It is to be held
at the Trocadero on August 6, and its
decor will feature the contrast in fashions
and modes throughout the century.


He helped Peggy into the
car. She went with him un-
resistingly.
Around the corner they over-
took two figures slowly walk-
ing, Jimmy helped along by
Alby.
“Get him into the back,”
Mn Archer commanded.
Alby and Peggy, between
them, helped him into the car.
Jimmy lay back, eyes closed,
breathing stertorously.
“Thanks,” said Mr. Archer.
“Thanks a lot, Alby. Here.”
He leant across, passed some-
thing.
“Thank you."
“Do me a favor, Alby?
Give a message to Mr. Gold.
Tell him Archer said the deal’s
off. Got that clear? The deal’s
off. Definitely off.”
A moment later, as the car
picked up speed in the deserted
street, he wondered if he had
been impulsive. He wanted
that hotel. But there might be
another way ... A much more
satisfactory way, all round. If
only he could remember . . .
“We’ll take him to Sydney
Hospital,” he said "to the rigid
girl beside him. “Out-patients.
They’ll check him over.”
“Do you think he’s badly
hurt?”
“No. At the worst, perhaps
slight concussion. But we’ll
soon know. Then, if it’s all
right to take him, I’ll drive you
both home.”
“He doesn’t want me,” she
said dully. “I can’t blame
him.”
“Nonsense. He’s been
beaten-up. Had a shock, too,
about you, I daresay. His
manhood has been insulted,
both ways. Take him home,
put him to bed, let him sleep,
feed him, look after him —
everything will work out, you’ll
see. If that’s what you want —
is it?”
“Yes. Oh, yes.”
“Here we are,” said Mr.
Archer cheerfully. “Got it!"
“I beg your pardon?”
“I’ve just remembered some-
thing.”
morning there was an
extraordinary meeting of
the syndicate. Herb Trent
leant back in his chair. “So we
can’t get the big place after
all?”
Solly shook his head. “Looks
like it. We’ve only got a
couple of days left. I’ve raised
every penny I can. I’ve had
this bad news from Melbourne
and now, on top of everything,
this bastard Archer backs out
on this deal.”
“Well ...”
Herb Trent could afford to
be philosophical. Whatever
happened to the syndicate, he
would still be a rich man. Be-
sides, he wasn’t sure the check
wasn’t a good thing. There
were dangers in rapid
expansion.
Solly walked up and down.
“It’s too good to give up with-
out a fight. We ought to be
able to raise the money some-
how. Some of you must be
able to scrape up something
more. Rudi?”
Rudi spread wide, well-kept
hands. “You’ve got all I can
raise, Solly.”
“Morry?”
“A thousand more, perhaps.
No more in the time.”
“Well, it’s something. We’ve
twenty-seven-thousand in the
account and the bank will let
us go a few over that. And
I’ve got Archer’s cheque for
the car”
“Have you paid it in?”
“I will, as soon as the bank
opens. In fact. . . Ring that
bell, will you, Mark? I’ll send
it over right away—it’s nearly
time.”
He sat down, endorsed the
cheque, and when Margaret
knocked went to the door and
handed it to her. “Run over
and put that in the bank, right
away, will you, Margaret?
Number-one account.”
He resumed his restless
pacing. “Well, that’s not much.
Come on. Any more?”
Asquith glowered at the
floor. “You know how I
stand, Solly.”
“Same as me,” said Mark
Gold.
“I know, all right. You’re
a pair of useless . . . Enough
gone on horses and women to
float a national loan. You
haven’t put in fresh money on
the last two deals, and your
equity’s shrinking all the time.
Soon you’ll be working for me
and Herb and Morry and Rudi.
Well, that’s your funeral. What
about you, Herb?”
Herb Trent glanced at the
bedroom mirror, straightened
his tie.
“No. You know my views,
Solly. Don’t go in too far. As
it is . . . You’re getting talked
about. That’s dangerous. I
won’t put in any more money.
No.”
“I’ll catch the plane to Mel-
bourne this afternoon,” Solly
said thoughtfully. “Maybe I
can swing it.”
Mr. Archer, on the other
side of the city, was shouting at
the phone. “Yes, Ray, yes.
They check, you say? Good.
Now look, Ray, I’m catching
a plane tonight. Get on to
my solicitor—you know, Green
■ —tell him the story, tell him
what I want to do. Good! ”
JOSEPH HAMILTON lived
J in an unobtrusive mansion
in Toorak, surrounded by
trees and filled with art-
treasures. He had an office in
the city, filled with typists and
card-indexes and accountants,
but a lot Of his real work was
done at home, in his den.
It was a large den, as became a
lion of commerce, and Hamil-
ton was working under a mobile
light, in his shirt-sleeves, when
Solly was shown in. Hamilton
was bald, with a fringe of grey
hair, and he had a neat grey
moustache. Clamped under the
stem of his pipe, a full red
lip, and his face was pink and
smooth and rather common-
place. But when he looked up
the blue eyes under the shaggy
eyebrows were commanding.
“Ah, Gold. Sit down.”
He went on writing. His task
finished, Hamilton folded his
lean, big-veined hands over his
plump waistcoat and leaned
back, looking at him. Finally
he removed his pipe.
“You’ve been getting your-
self into a bit of a mess, Gold,
so I hear.”
“A mess?”
“Yes, a mess. However, let
that pass for the moment. You
got my message?”
“Yes, but I couldn’t under-
stand it . .
“It was plain enough,”
Hamilton said dryly.
“I mean I couldn’t under-
stand why you took that
attitude. Frankly, it was a
shock. You always backed me
in the past, to our mutual
advantage. Now you leave me
in the lurch.”
Hamilton struck a match.
“I'm not obliged to back you,
you knew,” he said from
behind cupped hands. Blue
eye watching him.
Solly swallowed. “I know
that, Mr. Hamilton.”
Suddenly he was afraid. He
had never really thought about
what would happen if Hamilton
pulled out. The whole struc-
ture might come tumbling
down. Hamilton was his secret
card. No one in the syndicate
knew about Hamilton. But
what if someone did —what if
Herb Trent had somehow
found out, approached
Hamilton himself? Herb had
been acting queer lately. If
Hamilton played, that would
mean Trent bossing the syndi-
cate: Trent might even squeeze
him out; or he might dwindle
to a minor member, like
Asquith. . .
The hard, the bitter and
unfair thing was that if the
big deal had come off he would
have been independent; like
Hamilton, too big to touch.
That, perhaps, was what
Hamilton had sensed ; why he
had cut him down to size . . ,
“You sprang this on me,
you know,” Hamilton said
quietly. “I don’t know that I
like it. Haven’t you enough on
your hands without another
hotel—especially' that hotel?”
“But look at it this way,”
Solly said eagerly.
He spread his hands on the
big desk, leaning forward, talk-
ing fast, with growing confi-
dence. Why it was necessary
to expand, and expand; a
growing empire ; and this pub
the hub, the queen-bee of the
colony. . . That way you could
switch supplies, staff, make
money ...
It would be all right ; he felt
it. They were two big men
together, discussing large
affairs. The others were
pygmies . . .
Hamilton looked thoughtful.
“Trouble is, Gold, you’ve been
THE TOWER OF
LONDON
Cold in a tower, I coax my
stare
Towards each roof'
And spire, through introspec-
tive haze,
In search of proof
Of timelessness : I only find
Dead trees in mist,
With limbs that here prognosti-
cate
My own life lost,
And children in streets, rolling
their hoops
Of unreal hope
That die against determined
walls.
As old men grope
By a void of fog and would
believe
A god is near,
The mist encircles me with
doubt
And wisps of fear.
And though I would become
a tower
Of deathless stone,
When I look deep I see the
comfort
Of my flesh and bone.
ENGLAND.
R. A. SIMPSON.


dabbling in other things. I’ve
heard stories . .
“Lies, probably. Everyone
gets talked about in this game.
The more successful you are,
the more people talk.”
“Ye-es. But . .
“We’ve been a good com-
bination,” Solly said, sensing a
yielding. “Your capital, my
brains, right from the start . . .”
“Your start,” Hamilton
corrected.
“All right, my start. And your
brains, too, I’ll grant you. But
my work, my managing on the
spot, my initiative, and, later,
my money, too. In a few years”
—he checked himself, caught
his breath—“in a few years we
will be even more successful.
Why pull out now?”
All the time a pulse beating
at the back of his head, a voice,
you’ve done it, you've done it,
you’ve done it again! It was
always like that when things
were blackest. Face-to-face he
could compel Fate. Solly Gold
had done it again. . .
His voice was calm: “Well?”
“There’s something else . .
Hamilton looked over his head,
stood up.
“Come in, Mr. Archer.”
Solly twisted round, gripping
the arm of his chair.
VfR. ARCHER walked over
to the table, shook hands
with Hamilton.
“Just got off the plane,” he
said. He peered at Solly: “Ah,
Gold.”
The blood rushed to Solly’s
head. “So this is it!” he yelled,
banging his fist on the table. “I
won’t be beaten now, 1 won’t
. . .! You’ve come sneaking
to Mr. Hamilton with some
yarn. Well, it won’t do you
any good. Mr. Hamilton, this
man came to me yesterday with
a proposition. 1 talked to
him . . .”
He stopped. Hamilton and
Archer were smiling. What
was wrong?
“Tell him,” said Mr. Archer.
Hamilton smoothed his grey
moustache. “Let’s put it this
way, Gold. I’ve backed you.
Well, to put it in a nutshell,
Mr. Archer backs me. Under-
stand?”
“What?” Solly glared dis-
belief. It couldn’t be true.
Hamilton assured him it was
true. “Where did you think
I got all that money from?
Why, this place costs me a
fortune!”
He glanced fondly around
him.
“Well . . .” Solly swallowed.
He even managed a smile.
“Well, in that case, no hard
feelings, Mr. Archer. We know,
where we are, at least.”
“Yes,” said Mr. Archer, “we
know where we are.”
There was an uncomfortable
silence. Mr. Archer sat down.
“I don’t see that this makes
any great difference,” Solly
said quickly. “You wanted to
buy The True Briton. Now
you don't. All right. Other
things being equal, I’d just as
soon hang on to it. I want to
buy the big pub. I’ve got good
reasons. 1 was explaining my
plans to Mr. Hamilton . . .”
Mr. Archer leant forward
suddenly, hands on knees,
thrusting his face towards
Solly.
“I’ll tell you your plans, Mr.
Gold. When you get back to
Sydney a man called Kelly will
see you and offer you a price
for The True Briton. You’ll
take it. Within a week asso-
ciates of Kelly will offer you
prices for all your syndicate’s
hotels, and you'll take them.”
“Like hell I will!”
Solly’s mind had been work-
ing fast, adding and subtract-
ing. It could just be done. He
would sell, here and there, but
not to Archer, not at Archer’s
price, in his own time. He
would save something and
build again . . ,
“I have your notes,” said
Hamilton warningly, and Solly
smiled. Right, greybeard, you
have the notes, but I’m ahead
of you. I thought of that two
seconds ago.
“You do what I say,” said
Mr. Archer. “You know what
the penalties are for selling an
article out on hire-purchase,
don’t you?”
Hire-purchase, hire-purchase
. . . Of course, the car! How
had Archer got on to that? A
mistake, he'd been careless, but
it could be fixed, he’d pay the
balance to the h.-p. company
in the morning, ring Ray . . .
“You want to make a fuss
about that, do you? Well, as
a matter of fact that’s been
cleared up . . .”
“Has it? That’s news to me.
I was speaking to Ray before
1 went to Mascot. It wasn’t
fixed then. And the matter is
in the hands of the company’s
solicitor.”
Solly’s eyes narrowed. He
knew Ray—some hook-up.
Might be tricky . ..
“Get in touch with your
solicitors,” Mr. Archer said,
“They’ll tell you what sort of
a spot you're in.”
“Just to help you make up
your mind, Gold,” Hamilton
said, “/ control that company.”
TT was true. He knew it was
true. It was the finish.
Solly stood up.
“What’s behind all this?
You”-—turning to Archer —
“you’ve had it in for me from
the start, haven’t you? You”
—to Hamilton—“you didn’t
like me taking on the big pub,
did you? All right to play
around with them in the
suburbs, but not the big one.
Didn’t think I was gentlemanly
enough.”
Hamilton tapped his up-
ended pipe on the ashtray,
“True, I didn’t like the idea of
you and your gang lording it
in there. But that’s personal
prejudice. That didn’t weigh
on my mind at all. A man
like you is dangerous in
an organisation. You don’t
know when to stop.”
“And because I’m a Jew?
That wouldn't have anything to
do with it, would it?”
Solly was losing control,
trembling.
“Seen old Isaac Cohen
lately?” Mr. Archer said
quietly. “No? Well, Isaac
warned you some time back,
Gold. Isaac told me. No,
Gold, it’s not because you’re
a j e w. How many decent
Jews have you for friends, any-
way? No, it's as Joe says,
because you’re dangerous—you
make enemies. Some day
they’ll catch up with you. We
don’t want to be included.
And, besides, there’s something
e l se —you’re a dirty bastard,
Gold.”
“Dirty? Dirty, you say?
And what about you and
Hamilton? Yes, Ive done the
dirty jobs, the tough jobs, and
who gets the cream? You and
Hamilton! You can afford to
have scruples. I cant! Who s
the worse—me or you? ’
“Hmm. Perhaps. However.”
Mr. Archer turned to
Hamilton. “About this Irish
syndicate, Joe . . .”
It was as though Solly was
invisible, didn’t exist. He went,
and they continued talking
under the light of the tilted
lamp.
“Your turn to Wash-up, Dr. Eisenstein


who carried the lie as far as Farrell; his
sundowner is the champion of them all.
Half-a-dozen times in this long poem
—it mns to 512 lines —it seems that
the story must be finished; then Farrell
draws breath, and comes out with a new
set of lies, each more outrageous than
the last.
The story could stop when the rouse-
about hangs himself. But (after a
beautiful pause in the narrative while
the sundowner cadges tobacco and
reluctantly refuses to become boss of
this station as of Murragumbalong) it
goes on to the hapless trooper. The
sundowner has left him to guard the
bodies for the night while he rides for
help to Johnson’s neighboring station ;
and when he comes back in the morning
with Johnson and his rouseabout, of
course the trooper is up the gumtree.
And so, in the next five minutes, are
Johnson, his rouseabout and —only
the rope broke and saved him—the
sundowner himself:—
—His man had just commenced to
climb up
The stem! And then I felt almighty
queer
And thought, “I’ll just see Johnson
off then I’m up ;
Am I less game than one of them?
No fear!
Though I’d go through it pluckier
could I prime up
With rum or even a good fill of
beer—
I must get out my bit of cord and
twist it;
The tree is drawing me, I can’t
resist it!
Here, too, there is a climax where the
story could stop: when Johnson and
the rouseabout are hanging and the
sundowner himself is assured:—
It’s not to be; whatever fate may
bring you,
One thing is sure —no rope will ever
swing you.
But then (after the pleasing revela-
tion that Johnson was, anyhow, a
sheep-stealer) there is the coroner’s
juiy, the members of which must
inspect the tree . . . with dreadful con-
sequences, first to the foreman, who
It seems had, while the rest
deliberated,
Hid in his shirt a clothesline ..,
and then to all the others:—
.The coroner that same night
suicided
Upon the Tree, and on the follow-
ing day
Four of the jurymen came back and
tried it.
.... It went on like a play
For days until the jury were all
laid out;
And even then the Tree did not
seem played out.
Neither, even then, was Farrell. The
yam, swelling like a flooded river, is
still rising. There are still occasional
“stragglers” to patronise the Tree;
and there is the sundowner’s dog which
he tied to the Tree to keep the
stragglers away and which, while he
was asleep, undid its chain, climbed
up and joined the majority:—
And very close to him there hung as
coolly
A perfect stranger comfortably dead.
Surely, the reader thinks, the story
must stop there, with that most exotic
touch of the suicidal dog. But then
there are the twenty-eight shearers (who
came to see Flash Dick the Ringer go
off, when Dick had come to see the
dog)—they all went off, too. By this
time the sundowner is charging ten-
pounds a time for the privilege of
swinging from the tree and, despite
such unfortunate incidents as that of
the cocky who wanted him to trust him
for the money and, when he wouldn’t,
—just walked with a grim smile off
And patronised a gum about a mile
off,
he makes a fortune out of it. When the
Tree at last falls, overburdened by the
weight of thirteen “rich squatters and
bank-clerks” who have paid £5O each
for the right to swing from the top, he
retires in splendor to England, as did so
many other wealthy squatters of the
period, and enters Parliament—•
But men,
I gave such sprees my sugar couldn’t
hold out
For ever, and —well, here I am again.
And there at last, having come full
circle, a most rare example of a
fantastic theme fully and plausibly
worked out, mounting in comedy all
the while, the story does end. It needs
to he read in full for Farrell’s rough
magic to work, for he liked to take his
time about a joke, and to pile it on.
Though it is well-sustained and the
excruciating versification a truly
dreadful parody of the ottava rima of
Byron’s “Don Juan” —is part of the
joke, it can hardly be said to be as
well-written in its own field as. were
“The Sentimental Bloke” or Paterson’s
ballads. It needn’t have been quite so
heavy-footed. But it is ingenious ; it is
a large effort; and I think it is too
amusing and too Australian (’Nineties
vintage) to be forgotten. The only
reason why Nancy Keesing and I left it
out of the ballad anthology (we could
have forgiven it for not being a
ballad) was that it is too long.
And who, since he seems to have
been forgotten along with his poetry,
was Farrell? He was an Irishman: that
explains everything. Bom in South
America, exported at a tender age to
the goldfields at Ballarat; became—
for which all poets must envy him—
manager of breweries (breweries!) at
Albury, Goulburn (N. S. Wales) and
Queanbeyan ; fell into journalism. He
died in 1904. In his own day he seems
to have been chiefly valued for “How
He Died,” an awful poem in the style
of Longfellow’s “Evangeline.” He
sent this to Tennyson, who cautiously
replied that it was‘“very spirited.”
Douglas Stewart.
Astronomy Up-to-date
Discovery of the Universe, by Gerard
de Vaucouleurs (Faber), traces the
development of astronomical ideas and
methods from the earliest times. First
published in France in 1951, this
edition comes down to 1956. It con-
tains an astronomical number of facts
about astronomy and, of necessity, is
somewhat formidable reading in the
account of 20th-century inventions and
calculations.
One field of great importance
developed mainly in the last decade is
radio-astronomy, the study of the uni-
verse by means of cosmic radio-waves.
Australia, it is noted, is concerned in
these experiments. In 1949, for
instance, J. P. Wild and L. L.
McCready of the Radiophysics
Laboratory, Sydney, constructed a
radio-spectroscope (described as an
“outstanding” development) which
detects changes of frequency of the
sun’s emitted radiation ; and in 1951
W. Christiansen of Sydney developed
the “radio-interferometer” (“another
remarkable instrument”), which con-
sists of an array of 32 parabolic mirrors
and is designed to pinpoint the sun’s
radio-emission. There is still a lot to
learn about the complex phenomena
connected with solar radio-waves.
Though he barely mentions his stay
in Australia, the author was from 1951
to 1954 at Mt. Stromlo Observatory as
Research Fellow in the Australian
National University. Then he became
observer -in - charge of the Yale-
Columbia southern station, also at Mt.
Stromlo, and in March this year left to
join the famous Lowell Observatory in
America.
Reviewed Briefly
All Through the Night: Richard
Vaughan (Rupert Hart-Davis). A
short and gripping account of a small
boy’s journey through terrifying Welsh
valleys during one stormy night. His
destination is a remote hamlet where
his father is to come into violent
conflict with his mother’s lover. The
boy’s reactions and fears are skilfully
portrayed.
* * * *
Hope Against Hope: Marjorie
Weaver (Hodder and Stoughton). A
love-story about English migrants in


§
>- D
A
mh£
Unique and Beautiful Gift . . .
For Son, Grandson or Young Friend
Ideal Birthday Gift or School Prize
TREASURE ISLAND
By ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON
Profuse with Atmospheric Illustrations—with Ten Plates in Colour.
Illustrated by Australian Artist, William Bustard. With Typographical
Elegance produced by Skilled Pressmen, Sewn and Bound into Gold-Tooled
Covers.
and its Companion Volume
ROBINSON CRUSOE
By DANIEL DEFOE
Produced in the same exciting style as “TREASURE ISLAND”—
completing a fine Pair of Volumes —a constant joy to the young
Look lover.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
Printers and Publishers
304 QUEEN STREET :: BRISBANE
Obtainable at all Good Book Stores
Size 12£ in. x 10 in.
Price £2/2/-
Per Volume
Australia, written with efficiency and
ease. The author concentrates on Aus-
tralia’s shortcomings as a home-from-
home (though Melbourne meets with
her approval) and voices many com-
plaints about migrants’ difficulties.
But her hero and heroine react bliss-
fully to “carols by candlelight” and
apparently decide to live happily-ever-
after in this benighted land.
* * * *
The New Australians: Allan Aldous
(Bodley Head). Simple and direct in
its approach, this novel for older
children shows the assimilation of an
English family to the Australian way
of life. The scene moves from farm-
life in South Australia to the city scene
in Melbourne and on to some improb-
able adventures in Central Australia.
The slow change from disappointment
and distaste to an understanding of this
country’s elusive charm is well
developed and pleasant to read.
* * * *
Lady Wu: Lin Yutang (Heinemann).
The Empress Wu who flourished in
China in the 7th century A.D. has
already been the subject of a biography
by Professor C. P. Fitzgerald of the
National University at Canberra.
Reviewing this biography, “The
Bulletin” (4/l/’56) said: “As the
heroine of a contemporary 600-page
costume-novel, with the professor’s
sketches of voluptuousness and violence
filled in and colored, she might outsell
‘Forever Amber.’ ” But unfortunately
Lin Yutang’s presentation adds very
little to the color and embellishment
of the story—in fact, his calm and
anaemic approach robs it of vitality.
Still, the story is there, violent enough
in its bare bones to stimulate the
imagination.
* * * *
Adventure in the Outback: Phyllis
M. Power (Dent). About a boy called
Bret who goes to live on his uncle’s
station in the N.T. They muster the
cattle, have trouble with cattle-duffers
and the blacks, and find uranium.
Children will find it lifelike and enter-
taining.
* * * *
Go in Beauty: William Eastlake
(Seeker). This first-novel about two
brothers brought up in Indian country
moves along from one brusque joke to
another in something of the humor
Hemingway occasionally springs; only
it progresses in this way all the time.
Its main study is of the decay of the
novelist-brother who has stolen the
good brother’s wife and become
famous; nervous, corrupt, bitter and
lost, he seeks and finds his own
murder. It is worth reading for the
writing, which is of close texture, the
words alive all the time and different
from ordinary novelistic cliches, and
for its informed studies of American
Indians as is.
* * * *
Stories for Boys: Anthony Bucke-
ridge (Faber). These 21 stories have
been chosen with that discrimination
which is shown in most of the many
Faber anthologies (one has specially
pleasant memories of the Irish
anthology, one of the greenest, gayest
collections of short stories that has
ever been made). The two big names
in this collection are Wodehouse, with
a dog as foolish and fortunate as Bertie
Wooster; and Conan Doyle, with a
story about a freak bowler which rivals
our famous Australian M’Dougal
who topped the score. One can also
commend “Captain Bud and Augustus”
by Ken Francis, a tail-story that one
should surely have been told long ago
when one was a boy. Captain Johns
remembers that almost incredible time
when “Biggies” was learning to fly;
Donald Gilchrist has a school-story
about a boy who pretended he couldn’t
swim and dragged in a bumptious
master; and there is a fine, sardonic
story about a young African stowaway
by Hilton Brown.


ism home ligirtincg...
CENTURY
THE FIELD!
WITH A BATTERY THATS
YEARS AHEAP OF
ANY OTHER IN AUSTRALIA
Century engineers, working closely with the greatest
battery laboratories in U.S.A., bring you this marvel-
lous new homelighting Battery.
NEW IN EVERY DETAIL—WITH NEW TECHNIQUES
—NEW CONSTRUCTION METHODS—NEW SUPER
PERFORMANCE.
LOOK AT THESE OYNAMIC FEATURES. NO OTHER BATTERY HAS THEM:
i
Ilf i
mm
n
1 ftl
c
aSItVIUM —the scientific additive
which KEEPS PLATES ACTIVE
WITH MAXIMUM EFFICIENCY;
PREVENTS GRID CORROSION.
ONLY CENTURf HOMELISHT-
IN© BATTERIES CONTAIN
SILVIUM.
■ TRANSPARENT POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER . . . you can sea
the acid level at a glance.
B INBUILT GRAVITY BALL INDICA-
TORS . . . show state of charge
AT ALL TIMES. No more messy
hydrometer.
B GLASS INSULATION —gives *»«.
tained power during the BAT-
TERY'S ENTIRE LIFE.
THESE ARE THE POWERFUL REASONS WHY CENTURY
BACKS THIS BATTERY WITH A BULLETPROOF
THREE YEARS' GUARANTEE
with SIL.VIUM
mm iiiiiiiii
ii
These three gravity ball
indicators white, red
and green—are clearly
visible through the trans-
parent polystyrene con-
tainer. Their floating
position shows instantly
the Battery s state of
charge.
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THOUSANDS OF SATISFIED GRAZIERS
AND STATION OWNERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
DEMAND THE BEST ... BUY THE BEST ... BUY CENTURY!
SILVIUM Batteries are also available for all cars, trucks, tractors, etc.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co., Ltd., Birmingham St., Alexandria.
Bradley Bros., Ltd., 50-59 & 68-72 Wentworth Ave., Sydney. Grim lev Ltd., 247-253 Broadway,
Sydney. Industrial Sales &■ Service ( N.S.W. ) Ptij. Ltd., Parramatta Rd., Lidcombe. Motor
Traders Pty* Ltd., <0 Commonwealth St., Sydney.. Advanx Tyre & Rubber Co ♦ Ptu. Ltd**
!Neild & McLachlan Ave., Rushcutters Bay. (Sydney Metropolitan Area).
LOWER RIVE RINA: Motor Traders (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., 515 Kiewa St., Albury.
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty., 123 Charlotte St., Brisbane. Plant
f Plant ( Machinery ) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons
Ltd. r Townsville. Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bun da berg. Advanx Tyre & Motor Service, 61 Sheridan
St., Cairns. Lawrence Motor Company, Boisover St., Rockhampton. Corser & Co. Ptu,, Ellen*
St., Maryborough. Gyrnpie Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary St., Gympie. Jas. Croker
& Sons, Mackay.
V, h 'P!. Bt °*%> e Battery Co., Pty., Ltd., Macaulay Rd., North Melbourne.
SOblH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries C5..1.) Ij-d. (Sole Concessions:
St., Adelaide.
Concessionaires), 15 Aekland
GET THIS FREE BOOKLET
Post this coupon to-day to
CENTURY STORAGE BATTERY CO. LTD.,
Box 52, P.O. Alexandria, N.S.W., for your free
homelighting booklet giving complete details
of this marvellous new battery.
NAM1
ADDRESS
CPGlOO
