

iM
SOLERO
SWEET OR DR
The Bulletin
SNAKES OF AUSTRALIA •—PAGE 2
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78 No. 4013
Wednesday, January 9, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 331: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
THE PALLADIUM, MUSIC HOUSE OF THE WORLD
THE London Palladium is renowned as the world’s greatest music-hall, and
it is the ambition of every music-hall turn to “play the Palladium." lo
do so results in considerable prestige and is the most convincing reference
any performer can possess. The patrons know that in each new programme
they will see performances by world-famous international stars —artists who
have reached the peak of perfection in their various spheres of variety.
Until the early hours of the morning the stage-doors are frequently
besieged by autograph hunters waiting for such stars as Bob Hope, Gracie
Fields, Frank Sinatra, Jack Benny, Norman Wisdom, Johnny Ray, Betty
Hutton, the Andrews’ Sisters. Judy Garland —all of whom have appeared at this
famous theatre. Perhaps the greatest of this decade’s Palladium pertormers
was Danny Kaye, who won increasing prestige in his native America after
his London triumph. . ,
The Palladium is situated in Argyll-street, near Oxford Circus, and stands
on the site which was originally occupied in the 18th century by the London
home of the Duke of Argyll. This was later sold to the fourth Earl of Aberdeen,
who became Prime Minister and was the person responsible for determining
the 49th parallel as the border between the United States and Canada, upon
his death in 1860 the house was sold to a wine-company who excavated to a
depth of 25 feet and used the site as bonded cellars. Finally the building became
an ice-rink before it was reconstructed in 1910 as the London Palladium at
a cost of £250,000. , ,111
The architect was Frank Matcham, who designed the vast red plush
auditorium to seat 2500 people so skilfully that the necessary intimacy
between performer and audience has not been lost. The lavish decoiation
of Edwardian days is still maintained in this theatre, which has, at the same
time the most modern and luxurious suites of dressing-rooms.
The biggest event of the Palladium year is the annual Royal Variety
Performance presented in the Autumn before the Royal Family when the
great stage holds a cast of four hundred artists.


IJOOKHUNTEIi, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A sendee for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if ,u„-
cessful.
The Red Page
Two-headed Tiger-snakes
Seldom, even in literary criticism,
does one come across a book so
venomous as J. R. Kinghorn’s The
Snakes of Australia (Angus and
Robertson).
Mr. Kinghorn will grievously dis-
appoint admirers of the hoop-snake
(which puts its tail in its mouth and
rapidly bowls downhill), the joint-snake
(which falls to pieces when you hit it,
the fragments then joining up again)
and the flying-snake or spear-snake
(which, in Central Australia, shoots
out from the spinifex and goes right
over the backs of horses): for these,
he says, are myths.
It is, however, a considerable con-
solation to learn that two-headed
snakes, the sight of which might send
anyone permanently on the water-
wagon, are real. In fact, a two-headed
tiger-snake used to live with Mr. King-
horn in the Australian Museum,
Sydney—stuffed, no doubt —until it was
sent overseas to an anatomist who
wanted to play with. it. And, again,
though it would be nice to believe that
snakes say hoo-hoo at night, as Mr.
Kinghorn says some bushmen have
asserted —apparently another fallacy—
it is at least cheering to be assured
that they can squeak.
Perhaps Mr, Kinghom’s most
devastating disclosure is that, “having
no external ear, no eardrum, and
only the most rudimentary internal
mechanism for hearing, it is doubtful
whether snakes can hear at all in the
sense in which we speak of hearing.”
One had always had the comforting
notion that if one made plenty of noise
in the bush the snakes would creep off
in all directions; but now it appears
that the thing to do is to scrape your
foot, or perhaps stamp —they are sensi-
tive to vibration. Schmidt, Wall and
other experimenting herpetologists, says
Mr. Kinghorn, do suggest that snakes
may be able to hear sounds above the
limit of human audibility; but the
problem there, of course, would be
how to make such a sound and, having
made it, how to be sure that you had.
On the whole it might be safer to stay
home. And indeed Mr. Kinghorn
provides many good reasons for
keeping well away from his friends.
There is the displeasing information
that an average of a dozen people are
killed annually in Australia by snake-
bite; not very many, it is true, but,
then, you might be one of the dozen.
There are the excruciating details
about how the venom works, some
brands coagulating the blood, others
acting on the nervous system and
causing paralysis of respiration. And
there is the particularly nasty glimpse
of “Jacobson’s organs,” which are two
little pits in the snake’s mouth into
which, the better to savor you, the
snake with its flickering tongue pops
minute “particles” of odor, thus
enabling it to aim better when striking.
Mr. Kinghorn does not say who
Jacobson was, but he should have been
shot.
The important thing when you are
bitten is, after slicing yourself about,
tying ligatures, sucking the poison out,
etc., to keep calm, as if you were
enjoying it; and, if possible, to see that
you are bitten by a black-snake, which
is rarely fatal. It may help you to
know that the venom is only a specially
developed form of saliva—doubtless
we could all do it if we wanted to.
Mr. Kinghorn, perhaps it should be
made clear, has not written this little
book to be alarming. On the contrary,
in the way of scientific men, he is
continually talking about “beautiful”
specimens, and nothing gives him more
pleasure than to describe, as was once
observed off Malaya, “a mass of sea-
snakes” which, seen from the deck of
a ship, “appeared to extend over
several miles of ocean waters.”
His book is a revised and enlarged
edition of a handbook first published in
1929. Along with a general introduc-
tion and a mnning commentary, each
snake is illustrated in color-plates
worthy of a better cause. Anyone
intending to be bitten by snakes, or
fond of reading about them, will find
it indispensable.
Alan Marshall's Stories
Where Alan Marshall suggests com-
parison with Lawson in his collection
of short-stories, How’s Andy Going?
(Cheshire), he makes an interesting
contrast.
In their studies of drifters, for
instance, Lawson’s “Drifted Back” is
a tragedy of complete banality. A man
walks into a grocer’s-shop in his old
home town, asks questions about the
people he used to know and walks out
again. A question anyone might ask
is followed by an answer anyone might
give; stroke on stroke; nothing is
intensified except the reader’s percep-
tion of a life’s tragedy.
Mr. Marshall’s “Uncle Jim” in
“Along the Track,” on the other hand,
is a special case, almost a psychiatric
case. He is escaping some memory of
the city; he is a ventriloquist and has
conversations with his doll; he is full
of cracked theories in which he
believes as much as in his fortune-
telling; he is, in short, a “character,”
and very well-drawn, too.
Against the Queensland bush Uncle
Jim has a surrealist incongruity, he
invites at most the reader’s pity,
whereas Lawson’s drifter gets inside
the reader: he is everyone who has ever
gone back.
That Mr. Marshall can write with
Lawson’s concision is shown in his
famous story “Tell Us About the
Turkey, Jo”; and that his dialogue can
be as exact as Lawson’s is shown in
“You’re a Character,” in which three
young men pick-up four girls in a car
and drive out to frustration in the bush.
Here Mr. Marshall has one over the
master —it is a story that Henry could
never, never, never have brought
himself to write.
The book is a medley of town and
country; a couple of fairly-ordinary
aboriginal legends; a very good selec-
tion of tail-stories about the fabulous
Speewah station, “They Were Tough
Men on the Speewah,” and the recent
“Bulletin” story of a kids’ crawling-
race, “How’s Andy Going?” In all, a
good entertainment.
Longmans Anthologies
Since it contains a few alarming
little footnotes informing you that
“amaranth” in Walter de la Mare’s
“All That’s Past” means “An
imaginary, unfading purple flower” and
that when Stephen Spender in “The
Express” speaks of “the elate metre of
her wheels” he means the “triumphant
rhythmical beat” (if that helps), it is
obvious that Fresh Fields, an anthology
of verse from Longmans, is meant
chiefly for children.
It is one of those charming little
anthologies where the compiler is not
on his oath to include all writers of
repute, but, with the classics still held
in mind, is free to select oddities,
rarities, whatever is pleasing:—
Says Tweed to Till —
“What gars ye rin sae still?”
Says Till to Tweed —
“Though ye rin with speed
And I rin slow,
For ae man that ye droon
I droon two.”
Also, because there is an Australian
selection added by Enid Moodie
Heddle, the young reader will have the
pleasure of discovering Kenneth
Slessor keeping company on a nautical
subject with James Elroy Flecker,
David Campbell and Osbert Sitwell
discussing winter together, Judith
Wright talking much less sentimentally
about trains than does her companion
Stephen Spender; and, if one may touch
on a matter near home, Douglas
Stewart unexpectedly keeping company
with the prophet Isaiah.
The Australian poems seem to
have been put in for a special Aus-
tralian edition, and one has an uncom-
fortable suspicion that they will be
dropped from English editions. That is
too much of a game of put-and-take.
Either Australian poets can stand for
all time and in all places with Flecker,
Sitwell, Spender and the prophet Isaiah,
or they cannot.
The same defence, that the compiler
is not on oath to include all writers of
repute, might be made for another
Longman anthology, The Boomerang
Book of Australian Poetry, edited by
Enid Moodie Heddle, attractively pro-
duced* and intended for sale to the
public as well as for schools. But the
difference here is that too many of the
poems are not really pleasing.
One can understand that Miss Heddle
did not feel obliged to go as far back
as Harpur and Kendall; and that she
found nothing suitable for children in
O’Dowd, Baylebridge and Brennan.
But surely she was not also obliged to
omit Robert D. Fitz Gerald (rarely suit-
able, one must admit; but there is
“Mary Anne Bell”); Rosemary Dobson,
Kenneth Mackenzie, Francis Webb,
Nan McDonald, A. D. Hope (well,
perhaps he has not much suitable for
the tiny tots), James McAuley . . .
The list could be extended a mile.
The remedy would have been the
omission of a great many indifferent
verses by C. B. Christesen, James
Picot, Rex Ingamells and others, and
the substitution of poems of higher
quality. Rex Ingamells’s early Nature-
poems, such as “Garchooka,” stand up
very well; but to include nine of his
poems, mostly extracts from “The
Great South Land,” not only means
the inclusion of some very thin versifi-
cation but also involves the young
reader in a confusion of values.
But it would be misleading merely
to dwell on the inadequacies of the
anthology: for, if it has weak spots,
in general it succeeds in its aim “to
provide a series of pictures of Aus-
tralian life and landscape as her poets
have experienced these over the last
hundred years”: with contributions
from Paterson, Lawson, McCrae, Shaw
Neilson, Roland Robinson, John
Blight, Slessor, Campbell, Stewart,
Judith Wright, Ethel Anderson, William
Hart-Smith, John Manifold and many
others. And, since they were both
omitted from Judith Wright’s Oxford
anthology, one is glad to see Wolfe
Fairbridge and (with his old black billy
winking at him) Louis Esson coming
up again. It is not a firm anthology;
but it is fresh and clear-cut.
The acknowledgments to “The
Bulletin” in both anthologies are
incorrect and incomplete.
Sunderlands and V.C.s
» Courage makes easy reading; it
doesn’t have to be well-written; it
redeems overwriting and thrives on
understatement —not that They Shall
Not Pass Unseen, by Ivan Southall
(Angus and Robertson), and V„C„s of
the Royal Navy, by John Frayn Turner
(Harrap), are either brilliantly or badly
written.
Mr. Southall’s book is about No.
461 Squadron, R.A.A.F., Australians
flying Sunderlands from English bases
early in World War 11.
There was the Sunderland that came
down in rough seas to rescue the crew
of a ditched Sunderland. Unable to
take off with certainty, they were sent
a French destroyer, which removed
the rescued crew and then took the
flying-boat in tow. Veering and bash-
ing against the seas and the towline,
the Sunderland ripped out its bollard,
and in desperation the captain got her
into the air. Then one of the crew,
opening a door to the lower compart-
ments, found that the seas had torn a
hole 7ft. by 4ft. in the hull bottom, So
the captain wirelessed headquarters to
get ready for him to land at Angle
aerodrome, and ploughed the 26-ton
flying-boat 150yds. along the grass
beside the runway until it “turned
gently to port and slid over on to one
float.”
Another Sunderland was attacked by
eight Ju-88’s, two-engined fighters,
“destroyed three, probably destroyed a
fourth, possibly a fifth and damaged
three more”—the last two fighters
broke off the engagement and headed
for France, leaving the Sunderland,
riddled but triumphant, to a beach-
landing at Cornwall, from where, at
midnight, they telephoned their com-
manding officer and had a hard job
convincing him they were alive.
There is a great deal here about
attacking U-boats, which was the
Sunderlands’ chief job; and a good
comic story about the Sunderland that
accepted a U-boat’s surrender from the
air but lost its code-book and couldn’t
signal instructions for the U-boat’s
procedure. Altogether it makes an
exciting continuous story of the endur-
ance of one Australian group in Eng-
land. An appendix-list of selected
operations from July 1, 1942, to June
18, 1945, prints the names of crew-
members in each sortie.
The chapter-heads of Mr. Turner’s
book are the names of naval V.C.s,
and here you get the submarines’ - side
of the war in the extraordinary careers
of Wanklyn, whose submarine Up-
holder sank three U-boats, a destroyer,
an armed trawler, 15 transports and
supply-ships and probably a cruiser
and another destroyer; and Miers. who
took the submarine Torbay into Corfu
harbor among six enemy destroyers,
surfaced in moonlight to charge his
batteries, submerged, torpedoed two
supply-ships and got away through the
narrow channel.
Then there were Roberts and Gould,
working in space just high enough to
lie down in, who removed two live
aircraft-bombs that had lodged between
the casing and the hull of the sub-
marine Thrasher and were rolling
about with the wash of the sea. And,
of course, there is the story of Ryder,
Beattie and Savage in the naval and
commando-attack upon Si. Nazaire;
and the heroes of the midget-submarine
attacks upon the Tirpitz in Norway and
the Takao in Singapore Strait,
Cameron and Place, Frazer and
Magennis; and Roope, who rammed
the heavy cruiser Admiral Hipper with
his destroyer Glowworm.
Both books are illustrated,
The British Officer
Gallant Gentlemen (Michael Joseph),
the fifth of E. S. Turner’s social surveys,
is a portrait of the British officer from
1600 to 1956.
As well as being objective, the survey
is witty, adult and stylish, whether
dealing with the gentleman-adventurer
of the 17th century, the 0.C.T.U.-
product of the 20 th. the R.A.F.
“types” or the woman officer who is
required by the Army Act to observe
the code of an “officer and a gentle-
man.” Mr. Turner also comments
whimsically on these last three words
and on their being retained in the
Army Act despite strenuous efforts in
1955 on the part of her Majesty’s
Opposition to have them deleted. Yet
it is clear that if, through the centuries,
officers have nearly always been
gallant they have not always been as
consistently gentlemanly.
The well-documented chapters on
the purchase of commissions are
astonishing to read. At the time of
the Crimean War the Queen’s Regula-
tions set the following prices for
infantry commissions: ensigncy £450,
lieutenancy £7OO, captaincy £lBOO,
majority £3200 and lieut.-colonelcy
£4540. In the Foot Guards this last
rank cost £9OOO and in the Royal
Horse and the Life Guards £7250.
Money paid actually exceeded the
catalogue prices; just as nowadays a
person will pay a disproportionate
amount for “fittings” when taking over
an unfurnished flat so a determined
officer-to-be would pay out an
extortionate amount for a sword or
for a horse. Lord Lucan, cavalry com-
mander in the Crimea, paid £25,000
for command of the 17th Lancers. His
brother-in-law, the Earl of Cardigan,
paid between £35,000 and £40,000 for
the lieut.-colonelcy of the 15th Hussars
and later acquired the 11th Light
Dragoons for a price in excess of
£40,000.
A hundred years or so earlier the
Navy had it—the other way round. The
Hermione, the richest prize of the
Spanish war, realised £545,000, with
share-outs ranging from £65,000 for
the captain to £485 for each seaman.
Though duelling has a chapter to
itself, polo does not. The Curragh
“mutiny” in Ulster is mentioned but
not the Black and Tans. Mr. Turner,
o Continued on page 55)


PHONE OR MAIL
Anthony Horderns’
80951
BOX 2712, G.P.O.
7 \ \
7
6
a
'Jy-v
, 1
I //
1 V
NO YOU CAN’T GO BAREFOOT
BUT YOU CAN BE JUST AS COMFORTABLE
WITH THE LATEST STYLES BY
A
JL Wl
s ■
I
C : '
■ Hi!
iH
mm
■
ill
s
•?*
■ ■
iHHH
PPM
nEn
H
lii
■
mmBBSSBBm; -jm
...
sassil
': *
Plateau 122 /•
In cherry calf with leather
soles or tan calf
with rubber soles.
Hampton 107/6
Black or tan calf
in fractional
fittings. Sizes
5 to 13.
Hampton 107/6
Black or tan calf,
Oxford style, fra-
ctional fittings.
Sizes 5 to 13.
m
mW! GOLOSH BROGUE
The latest style from America,
with two-hole tassle tie. Made
in mahogany or black calf.
Fractional fittings. Price 122/*.
Belmont 118/-
Three hole tie derby,
with mudguard
in tan calf.
r/


The Bulletin
Wednesday, January 9, 1957
VoL 78—No. 4013
The National Australian Newspaper
* Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gctwler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opposite G.P.O.}, Wellington.
AUSTRALIA'S ROLE
TWO political leaders have come out of the Middle
East crisis better than most: R. G. Menzies and
R. G. Casey. They have both played a notable
part behind the scenes in trying to ease a difficult
situation. Mr. Menzies’s role at the Suez confer-
ence in London and as the leader of the delegation
to Egypt considerably increased his stature and his
world reputation. Behind him Mr. Casey, whose
relationship to his Prime Minister has been
considerably and widely misrepresented, was an
influential figure who used his knowledge and wide
acquaintanceship with the world’s statesmen to
good purpose.
Australian support of the United Kingdom
and France called for courage in the tense
atmosphere of November, but it was given firmly
and more forthrightly than that of any other
country, and the Prime Minister’s statements
undoubtedly had an influence in shifting a large
section of world public opinion in the right
direction.
Unfortunately the crisis is not over. The
latest courses of the United States very directly
affect Australia’s interests, and now or at some early
period this country may find itself, through
American control of the Middle East, dependent on
American good graces for its lifeline of trade with
the British Isles and with Europe.
There is a considerable submerged propaganda
going on in Australia which preaches that our
interests are primarily, if not entirely, wrapped up
with U.S. policy. This purposeful representation
has been in evidence since the war. Its tendencies
were shown by the insistence of the Americans
on the exclusion of the U.K. in the beginning from
the Far Eastern defence-pacts to which Australia
and New Zealand were admitted; also, in the weight
applied to induce Australia to believe that its share
in world politics should be confined to the Pacific
and South-east Asia; and in the intrusions of the
Americans into the politics of India and Indonesia
to oust other white races. These, allegedly, were
indulging in something horrifying: a bogy invented
in Moscow and adopted by the U.S. press called
“colonialism”—a crime of which the enlightened
Americans would never, of course, be guilty.
It was held that the U.S.A. saved Australia,
which it undoubtedly did, during the war, though
largely because the Japanese made the mistake of
attacking the U.S.A. first. Australia then became a
suitable strategic base for U.S. forces in their
counter-offensive against the Japanese, and
Australia provided the U.S. forces stationed here
and in the Pacific with (at pegged local prices) $9OO-
- of food, equipment, etc. This included
trifling items of 234,000 tons of cereals, 195,000 tons
of meat, 219,000 tons of vegetables, 38,000 tons of
butter, etc., 88,000 tons of sugar, 38,000 tons of
processed milk, 57-million dozen eggs and (among
numerous articles of clothing), 11 million pairs of
socks—apart from a vital and well-trained, seasoned
and effective fighting force of all Services.
It is now held that without the closest liaison
with American defence and policy Australia would
be doomed in any future war.
Not so much thought seems to have been
devoted to the peacetime situation, of which the
essence is that Australia is dependent for the
continuance of its standards on European markets,
which take the bulk of her export goods and provide
nearly all the shipping which carries them. Little
thought, either, is concentrated on the fact that, for
all the magnitude of America’s war-effort after the
forced realisation of Britain’s dollar securities in
U.S.A. and the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the
genius which contributed most to victory was
that of the British, who established radar as a
powerful defensive factor, proved at huge cost of
blood and effort and handed to the other allies on a
plate the techniques which beat Germany into the
ground from the western side and the sea. Britain
was just as great a factor in the winning of the war
as the United States (if not a greater factor), and at
a sacrifice which was enormous, the like of which
America was not called on to make.
The United States now having driven the
British and French out of the Middle East, will no
doubt continue to use the United Nations as its
instrument to bring about the further division of
the British Commonwealth and the final eradication
of British and French influence. In this task it will
have co-operation from the Russians, who know
very much better than the introverted Washington
State Department the advantages in a final contest
with the Western bloc of the submersion of the
great European countries from the scene of the
major struggle.
Unfortunately, there seems to be little resistance
left in the dispirited British Government with its
wet-rag leadership and its diversionist Opposition.
Mr. Gaitskell is concerned only with securing office
so that he may resume the socialising of the country
whose spirit his party did so much to destroy when
in office in the years of international surrender
which followed 1945.
Yet it is imperative in our own interests that
both the white section of the British Common-
wealth and the European economy should be held
together and remain united and independent of the
U.S.A.
The latter countiy is apparently now ready to
go alone, except when it finds a use for the United
Nations Organisation to cloak its operations. Its
policy seems to be a dual one. It is outraged when
any other Power which it considers as a rival claims
the right to act unilaterally to defend its interests,
even when it acts in accordance with a treaty to
defend actual bases which, in the event of war with
Russia, would be common ground for all the Nato
nations. But having chastised the offenders,
President Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles immediately
proceed to 'act unilaterally themselves on a
basis of “moral equality” with a mass of
small dictators of whom they constitute them-
selves the defenders.
The insistence of Washington that its proposed
largesse in the Middle East is offered without strings
and that it will not rush to the defence of anybody
uninvited rings about as true as some of its other
smooth assurances during the Suez crisis. It does
not make sense, seeing that several of the Arab
nations, including particularly Egypt and Syria, are
up to their necks with Russia, and that India will
play with anybody Nehru feels that he can use.
Washington’s policy is also at variance with
that which it operates in the Far East, where, for
instance, in the Marshall Islands and the Ryukyus,
it occupies territory by armed force, certainly in
opposition to the will of most of the local
inhabitants.
A lead is badly needed in the British Com-
* monwealth to keep its main ingredients united and
able to resist outside pressures and to maintain its
influence. This is the more so in view of the
resurgence of Germany, which will soon enter the
concert of the great Powers, only too ready to fill
any vacuum in national influence in Europe. But
there seems to be no lead in London. Germany has
already become the third steel-producing country
in the world and the most populous in Western
Europe, even without East Germany.
The position seems to present a sovereign
opportunity for Mr. Menzies and Mr. Casey to
develop the roles which they assumed during the
last months of 1956 and put a little ginger into
British Commonwealth resistance to outside pressure
, and libel. Australia is too deeply interested from
an economic point of view to allow matters to
slide. A British Commonwealth conference,
initiated from Canberra, would be veiy much in
order at this juncture, and there is no doubt that
a large force of U.S. opinion would be behind
Mr. Menzies, who is highly regarded by many
Americans.
Payroll-tax Rolls On
EVER since the Federal payroll-tax was introduced
in 1941 there has been an agitation for its abolition.
There is nothing surprising about that, as there is
agitation for the abolition of most taxes. In fact,
the taxpayer has only two inherent rights. One is
to protest; the other is to pay up.
The unusual thing about protests against the
payroll-tax is that they unite momentarily under
one banner State Labor Treasurers and representa-
tives of Big Business. It is natural that manufactur-
ing and commercial interests should resent a tax
which rests solely on the fact that they are employing
others and which takes no cognisance of whether
they are good or bad employers, whether they are
making a profit or a loss or whether they are
running an essential industry or a luxury trade.
But it is quite unnatural that a Labor Treasurer,
or for that matter any Treasurer, should object to
a tax.
In his Budget speech last August Premier
Cahill spoke strongly against the payroll-tax and
said that in Loan Council proceedings he had urged
the Federal Government to abolish it.
It is definitely inflationary in its effect. To
take only one example which affects this State’s
Budget; the tax payable by the railways and tram-
and bus-services this year will amount to almost
£li million, and the total Budget cost will be
almost £2,700,000. I have made separate sub-
mission to the Commonwealth urging that at
least organisations providing public transport,
whether Government-owned or privately operated,
should be exempt from this tax, as, despite
increases in fares and freights, our transport
undertakings this year will show a combined loss
of over £si million.
Mr. Cahill’s cry of anguish should strike a
responsive chord in the hearts of many opposed to
him politically, but it must have earned him a
disapproving frown from one of his predecessors
as Labor Premier of N. S. Wales. The payroll-tax
was brought in by the Menzies Government in 1941
for the purpose of financing child-endowment. This
was no new experience for payroll-clerks in N.S.W.,
as J. T. Lang had used the same method to finance
his family-endowment scheme. Lang imposed his
family-endowment tax—three per cent, on all
payrolls—in 1927, during his first Premiership.
Among his henchmen in those far-off days, and for
many years thereafter, was J. J. Cahill' now a
trenchant critic of the payroll-tax.
One of two conclusions may be drawn from
this. Either the N.S.W. Premier has learned wisdom
with the years, or else the justice or iniquity of the
tax depends on the political color of the Govern-
ment imposing it. Basically political color doesn’t
seem to have much to do with the originating end
of the payroll-tax. Although it was fathered by
the Menzies Government, it was adopted whole-
heartedly by the Curtin and Chifley Governments,
after which it was welcomed back into the Menzies-
Fadden household as if nothing had happened. A
war-baby, it has now reached school-leaving age
and looks remarkably well-fed.
When first levied, the tax yielded the Federal
coffers £9 million. Last year the total was £4s£
million, and the Treasurer counts on raking-in
£4B£ million in the current year. That is a tidy
sum, and it is understandable that the Government
should be reluctant to forgo it. Abolition would
not, however, mean that the entire sum would be
lost to the Treasury; there would be. many contra
items to set against the gross figure. In this connec-
tion the president of the Taxpayers’ Association
recently suggested that the Government should ask
itself (and answer) several questions about the
payroll-tax. These were:—
(a) What does it cost in exemption from the
income-tax of private employers, including
companies ?
(b) What does it cost to reimburse the States
and their instrumentalities for their share
of the tax ?
(c) What does it cost the Commonwealth
directly for the tax on payroll paid by its
statutory undertakings ?
(d) What does it cost the Commonwealth
indirectly for the goods and services
supplied to it and its instrumentalities?
The Taxpayers’ Association, from its very
nature, inclines to the view that all taxes are bad,
some being worse than others. And the coincidence
of Mr. Cahill’s views with those of the Taxpayers’
Association could be explained by the fact that his
Government is also, in this case, a taxpayer directly
affected by payroll-tax. No such explanation could
account for the feelings of the Commonwealth
Tariff Board on the subject. In its latest report
this authority comments:—
Payroll-tax is another example of a Govern*
ment impost, right at the base of the cost- and
price-structure, which might be considered for
removal. It may be true to say that every pound
of income received by the Government in payroll-
tax means an increase in price to consumers of
at least two pounds.
The Tariff Board pursued the matter no further
than that, but the Institute of Public Affairs, in its
“Review,” discussed the cumulative effect of the
tax in more detail. It is normal practice for manu-
facturers and traders to include the payroll-tax in
their costs. Then, as selling-price is fixed on the
basis of a percentage-addition to the cost of the
product, the cost of the tax to the ultimate consumer
snowballs at each successive stage of the progress
of the goods from maker to consumer. In an
example given in the “Review,” by the time the
manufacturer’s profit, the wholesaler’s mark-up and
the retailer’s mark-up have been added to the prime
cost the ultimate tax-plus paid by the consumer has
increased from £lOO to £176.
The example is hypothetical; the ultimate
addition depends on the point in the chain of
production at which the tax is paid. If the raw
material has already passed through other hands
and is semi-processed before it reaches the manu-
facturer it will already be carrying a load of tax-plus
when he gets it. On the other hand, goods or
services going direct to consumers would carry a
lesser load. The I.P.A. is justified in saying that
the tax may be regarded as a general sales-tax, paid
mostly by the consumer, and that its abolition,
though by no means a complete answer to the
cost-problem, would, “by attacking costs directly
at the base, make a not unimportant contribution.”
The Government has stoutly resisted all pleas
for the abolition of the tax, and it seems generally
accepted—even by the I.P.A.—that it would be
impracticable without a reduction in Government
spending. That would be welcome in all conscience,
but a proper survey of the matters raised by the
Taxpayers’ Association might surprise the
Treasurer. The questions at least demand an
answer.


NEW DEAL ON THE CANAL


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mt. Isa Railway
Queensland, left to find the entire cost
of schemes for developing the hydro-
electric-power and irrigation resources of
its rivers in the Far North, while the
Commonwealth Government spends
hundreds of millions on the Snowy
Mountains scheme from which N.S.W.
and Victoria will draw the major benefit,
with South Australia picking up the
crumbs, has never ceased to peg away
at Canberra for some recognition of its
claim for Federal assistance in developing
its resources.
For the Burdekin and Tully projects it
received the same treatment from both
the Chifley and the Menzies Govern-
ments —friendly encouragement, but no
handouts —but this didn’t deter it from
trying again on the Mt. Isa front. This
time it seems that persistence may be
rewarded. Mt. Isa’s lead and copper are
valuable earners of overseas funds, and
near by is the Mary Kathleen uranium
field.
The problem involved is the recon-
struction of the 600-mile railway from the
Isa to Townsville and its ancillary line
from Townsville to the Collinsville coal-
mine, source of Mt. Isa’s fuel, a further
170 miles away. The Mt. Isa company
plans to increase its output of ore from
the present figure of 4000 tons a day to
13,000 tons a day by the middle of 1961,
and this makes imperative the reconstruc-
tion of the railway, already taxed to
capacity.
Early last year the Queensland Govern-
ment asked the Federal Government for
financial assistance to get on with the
job, and since then the project has been
investigated by Commonwealth officials
and by representatives of the World
Bank. A month ago, after studying
estimates and surveys prepared by the
Queensland Railways Department, a
Federal committee recommended that
Commonwealth aid should be given.
Last week a conference in Brisbane
talked over the project for three hours.
Treasurer Fadden and National Develop-
ment Minister Spooner represented the
Commonwealth Government; Premier
Gair, Treasurer Walsh and Transport
Minister Duggan put the case for Queens-
land, and the chairman and another
director of Mt. Isa Mines, Ltd., told of
the co.’s plans for expansion. After the
conference Fadden and Gair issued a
joint statement announcing a decision that
“in view of the importance and com-
plexity of the railway project it would
be well to seek the services of overseas
experts to assist in completion of the
railway plan.”
One complication is that the company
is investigating the possibility of an
atomic power-plant at Mt. Isa —a move
which would cut to a minimum the coal-
loading which would otherwise be the
main inwards payload of the Mt. Isa rail-
way. For the moment it seems that
Queensland’s hopes are once more
deferred, but at any rate the State has at
least persuaded Canberra to agree in
principle to support one developmental
work of national importance.
More OSyrrtpic Medals
If the phone rings in the artisan’s home
with cautious mention of a still-secret,
but much-coveted, honor to be announced
tomorrow, the reaction is inevitable.
“Don’t tell me I’ve won Tatt.’s!” says
the artisan.
No, he had won the British Empire
Medal. The most popular, most
immediately appealing feature of the New
Year Honors List was the inclusion of
six representative tradesmen —plumber,
plasterer, painter, dogman, electrical-
worker and carpenter—who symbolised
the craftsmanship on which the staging
of the Olympics was founded.
Leaving out such questions as the title
of the award (one week after the Queen
had addressed her Christmas message to
“The Commonwealth,” significantly
leaving the Empire out of it), and the
little shuffling of those initials which
makes such a big distinction between the
B.E.M. and the M.8.E., it was a grand
and generally appreciated gesture.
Still, after all the headlines of the last
few years, it was a bit like a handout
of honors at the end of a war. “Zero
Hour on Games,” “Peace Hopes at
M.C.G.,” were typical battlefront reports
as dispute merged into strike and arose
refreshed from conference, conciliation
or capitulation. Concessions were
granted right and left—pay, conditions,
hours, even what amounted to personal
choice of foreman by the choosier
artisans. Yet both sides can be said to
have won. The Stadium got built, and
the workers got everything they
demanded—all this, and the accolade,
too.
Generalship was the factor which finally
won the war, and the odd thing is that
the real-life general, Big Bill (Lieut.-Gen.
Sir William) Bridgeford, whom all
Olympians bless, did not figure in the
post-Olympics list. Certainly he got his
knighthood (last June) while filling his
crucial Olympic post, but that was
coincidence. He was knighted, on the
recommendation of the Federal Govern-
ment, for his “outstanding services to
the Commonwealth.” And high time,
too.
It was a delayed recognition of his
military services, more particularly as
Commander-in-Chief of the British Com-
monwealth forces in Korea and Japan.
The knighthood followed precedent for
this appointment. Perhaps his Olympic
work was taken into account also, because
he had been already three years in the
chief executive post. But now, when the
Olympics are over and the rewards are
apportioned, it would have been more
satisfying to see the name of this big—
in every way—man high on the list.
Unions and the Law
The action of the Meat Industry
Employees’ Union in fining a worker £5
for giving evidence against a fellow-
unionist charged with attempted theft at
the Homebush Abattoir (N.S.W.) may
sound a small incident. But it is not, as
the chairman of the politicalised Metro-
politan Meat Industry Board suggests, a
mere “domestic” matter, the business of
the union.
It is a deliberate subversion of the law:
the service of notice by a powerful
Leftist union that any union-member
who does his duty under the law of the
land is liable to be declared a trade-union
outlaw.
If this principle is applied generally in
unionism then no goods will be safe. In
some unions where there is Communist
control they are not safe now. The pilfer-
ing on the wharves, in shipping and on
some railways is on a gigantic scale, and is
a source of continuous complaint. The
people who could stop it are the unions
which control the various forms of trans-
port.
Nothing can be expected in the matter
from the union-leaders of the brand which
control the meat and waterside unions.
Nothing either can be expected from the
employees who must submit to entirely
illegal dictation to support and cover-up
breaches of the law by fellow-unionists
or be driven out of employment and
ruined—with their families.
But the State Government, and
the police who are responsible for
applying the law, are not in the
same position. What has Mr. Cahill to
say about union support and protection
for lawbreaking members? What has Mr.
Delaney, the police commissioner, done to
back and protect a victim who is being
penalised for aiding his officers to stamp
out theft in a Government public utility
charged with the treatment and custody
of bulk products? What has the arbitra-
tion system to say about the matter, and
has it made any note to see that the
unions are not beyond the law and can-
not subvert the law if they desire to have
the benefits of awards?
Surely some move should be made to
deal with the union-leaders who have
imposed the fine on the Homebush
witness.
Toot Sweet
[From “Mugrga Way”]
Impressed by the example of Tasmania,
where the blowing of car-horns is pro-
hibited by law, the member for the
Australian Capital Territory wants a
similar ban in Canberra.
The idea has merit, because too many
local as well as visiting motorists appear
to think that the best way of traversing
the curves and circles is to toot vigor-
ously at every intersection ; and there are
plenty of examples of that type of vulgar
pest which believes in honking outside a
house to attract the attention of those
within or to say farewell after a party.
It would be a good idea, however, if
Jim Fraser also devoted attention to some
of the other forms, of motormania preva-
lent in the Territory, which should be
curbed in the interests of comfort and
safety. Speed in Canberra, as elsewhere,
is often excessive, and here the street-
layout means a fearful squealing of tyres
\and screeching brakes. At some inter-
sections this noise is almost continuous
throughout the 24-hours, but the local
police who do their speed-cop act (with
a vast number of catches, admittedly),
on an almost unpopulated section should
be directed to pay more attention to
streets with houses, and especially to the
main entrance to the city, Northbourne-
avenue, which was never intended to be
a through-thoroughfare but has become
one.
Along this astonishingly straight stretch
of roadway roars the heavy traffic to
Cooma and the Monaro as well as much
of the local and all of the tourist traffic.
At night there is a constant procession
of excessively noisy semi-trailers as well
as Old and New (as well as Temporary)
Australians on motor-cycles emitting the
widely disturbing noises of which these
infernal-machines are capable. By day
the remarkable variety of earthmoving,
grasscutting and other machines main-
tained by the Department of the Interior
seems to make this area its special
preserve.
In other words, the speeds of motor-
vehicles in Canberra, and the noises
which they cause, in addition to the toot-
ing of horns, badly need police and
departmental attention in the interests of
health and safety. The original planning
of the city, and the alterations to that
plan, are both partly responsible for the
nuisance, but not entirely. Not all noise
can be avoided, but unnecessary noise
can and should be stopped.
What about it, Mr. Fraser?
Trees
[From “Mel Standin”]
A quarter-of-a-century of remarkably
variable weather influences have softened
admirably the hard, austere lines df Vic-
toria’s Shrine of Remembrance.
Half-a-century’s growth of trees around
has framed it beautifully. Amazingly, in
the last few years, perhaps a majority of
Australians have realised that trees won’t
grow as quickly as they can be chopped
down—have even grown to like trees as
part of the Australian scene.
But not the Victorian R.S.L. Sharply
rebuffed last year over a plan to clear
away a pleasant grove of trees at the
northern approach to the Shrine, the
Anzac House diehards are bringing out
the axe again and throwing a burnt-
fingered City Council into tizzied
confusion.
Argument in attack: The trees impede
a constant view of the Shrine during the
Anzac Day March; impede the march
itself, since the tired veterans have to
deflect to enter the Shrine Approach from
St. Kilda Road.
Argument in defence: The Shrine view
is enhanced by the occasional tree-
silhouette, and the trees “hardly divert the
march at all.”
Possible compromise, if there were any
mood for it, is that with a very little
adjustment of levels —a load of tanbark
against the kerbs would do —the marchers
could go between the trees, in brief,
refreshing shade, before the last gruelling
pinch up the slope. Files threading
between the poplars would give a touch of
Flanders (though other campaigns were
in desert areas).
The Linlithgow statue, which some
would remove, some not, is not really in
the way. It could stay there and lose, in
time, its new-won notoriety as the only
slightly - larger - than «lifesize Marquess
who would cost at least £4OOO simply to
be moved.
But the R.S.L. wants a clean sweep. The
State president, C. H. McKay, says: “We
must have a clear vista from St. Kilda
Road to the Shrine.”
Councillor Alex Grant, a member of
the City Parks and Gardens Committee,
speaks fn the “For each man kills the
thing he loves” vein in answering: “But
to take the trees away would
remove the very thing that helps make the
Shrine beautiful.” \ L
Every committee in the town-planning,
tree-saving, beauty-loving group is with
him in that, preparing to fight it out at the
conference that has been promised,
desperately, to settle the thing (once, if
not for all).
But those who have been described as
the “tall poppies” of the R.S.L. —as
against the unheard-from rank-and-file
—are prepared to declaim with
Ozymandias: “Look on my works, ye
Mighty, and despair!”
And if they should win, Shelley could
go on from there: “Nothing beyond
remains.... Boundless and bare, the lone
and level sands stretch far away.”
THE EISENHOWER DOCTRINE
[By “Ek Bum”]
T'WO events clear the deck for the new
■*- year’s international wrestling-match.
The new American Congress, with Demo-
crat majorities in both Houses, came
officially into being on January 3—17
days before the inauguration of the
President for his new term.
Within a little while it will discuss the
Eisenhower Plan for the Middle East,
with all its implications. The matter is
now before the Senate Foreign Affairs
Committee for examination before
debate.
The Administration and its supporters
themselves seem to show considerable
shifts of ground. Originally the fact
appeared to be that they had taken offence
at the failure of the British and French
to consult them in any way before acting
on Suez. Now their agencies are going
to great trouble to emphasise that it was
the policy of attacking Egypt, not the
failure to consult, which was the reason
for Washington’s anger. The motive for
this shift of attitude is very plain.
President Eisenhower and whoever
drafts his policy in the State Department
have produced a plan without consulta-
tion with the members of the Baghdad
Pact in the West. It, moreover, seems to
embody in principle the same kinds of
action to which objection was taken when
the British and French acted. But it has
no teeth in it; only purchase-money.
It is a typical State Department plan—
as typical and as dangerous to peace as
many of the other U.S. plans, like the
Yalta agreement and the Chinese plan
of the post-war years, which have been
responsible for more dissension and
sacrifice to the Communist bloc than any
other influences.
The Eisenhower “doctrine,” as a
doctrine, in relation to the Middle East is
nothing new except for the U.S. It
might more justifiably be called the
Churchill doctrine or the Eden doctrine
or the Menderes doctrine. Britain and the
members of the Baghdad Pact have
firmly held to the doctrine which is now
having the name of Eisenhower tacked to
it that Red expansion in the Middle East,
through which the trade lifeline from
East to West passes, must be held at its
existing limits. But all the tendencies of
the United States have been so far to
defeat this policy.
But, anyway, would the U.S. have
stood by if the Middle East oil area was
attacked? Certainly not, The U.S. Sixth
Fleet was already in the area, which
proves the curious speciousness of the
present proposal, which seems designed
to cloak other aims than defence of the
M.E.
Washington pressure effected the
excision of the two factors which pro-
vided the greatest safeguards to peace and
the holding-back of the Red tide in the
Middle East. It used its influence to drive
the British out of the Palestine mandate
and make Palestine a nation about the
size of a Northern Territory cattle-station
and with a polyglot population, collected
from round the world, smaller than that
of Sydney. Since this was done at the
expense of the Arabs U.S.-- pressure
resulted in the final destruction of any
good relations which existed between
some of the Arab nations and the
United Kingdom and removed the U.K.
as a stabilising influence from the
Mediterranean eastern littoral.
U.S. pressure drove the British out of
Egypt, thus selling-out to Nasser and
leaving the huge British base, the kernel
of the defence of the Middle East against
Russian aggression, at his mercy—as time
showed, a treaty made in 1954, which
he abrogated, was not worth the paper
it was written on.
A breaking of an American promise to
finance the Aswan Dam led to closer
relations between the Egyptians and their
jackal followers in Syria and did more to
advance the cause of Russia in the Arab
countries than any other definite action.
The spragging of the Suez Canal Con-
ference by the Americans after Nasser
had seized the canal placed Egypt finally
in control and brought the Middle East
to the brink of war in which the Egyptian-
Syrian bloc, with Russian aid, proposed
to immolate Israel.
Then Washington stopped the inter-
vention of the British and French. And
having all along refused to have anything
to do with the Baghdad Pact or the
Arabs (except to get the right to drill
for oil on the best terms), President
Eisenhower now turns up, complete
with halo, as the Protector of the Poor,
the new Haroun-al-Rashid, who is pre-
pared to defend anybody who asks him
o Continued on next page)


and who proposes to go about in the day-
light of the Middle East throwing gold—
the U.S. taxpayers’ gold—about with a
lavish hand. . ,
The only trouble is that the Arabs
refuse to be defended. They aie, on
their record, more afraid of the adjacent
Russians than of the United States. And,
moreover, they have been conditioned by
the Americans’ own propaganda, designed
to get the British out of India, Burma and
the oil countries, to hold to an “Asia for
the Asians” policy. They remember
that the Americans were so wedded ,to
this ideal that they were even very cool
about the Colombo Plan.
Nasser now proposes to bar England
and France from use of the canal unless
Israel willgive up the Gaza strip. And
no word has been heard, for long about
compensation to the Suez Canal Company
for the seizure of its assets.
It would seem that Mr. Eisenhower s
followers and admirers are not con-
fining their benevolence to the Middle
East zone. Having cut off Europe’s
natural oil-supply from the Middle East,
the American oilfields are now able to
sell oil to Britain and other European
countries. But in the curious argot of
Uncle Sam, this new commerce is not
described as fresh American trade. Even
the Australian papers have been hypno-
tised into calling it “oil aid,” as if it were
an act of charity and not hard, com-
mercial profitable business for oil
interests, with which some of the Republi-
can party’s past associations seem to have
been so remarkably intimate.
A vital development, as the United
Nations, under completely American
supervision, begins clearing the Suez
Canal, mainly with British Admiralty
equipment, is Nasser’s abrogation of the
1954 Treaty —which seemed inevitable. It
gives him one of the greatest military-
store bases in the world, enables him to
take over, in defiance of international law,
which he seems able to disregard at will
with the approval of the United Nations,
a base which was one of the most potent
safeguards against Russian aggression.
On the whole, the position in the Middle
East is worse than it was before. Syria is
obviously in the hands of the
Russians, who have been landing arms
there. The Cyprus position has been
rendered more acute by the sudden in-
trusion of the U.S.A. to approve the
Radcliffe Plan. Hitherto the U.S.A. has
stood aloof officially, but the press which
supports its Administration has been at
pains to point to the Cyprus position as
another example of brutal British
imperialism.
Moscow is busy with a new
shift of line which seems to be
born of the need to restore Stalinism
to its pedestal as a preliminary to getting
tough with those who felt that the
abolition of the cult of the individual
meant the restoration of political
freedom. Stalin has again become a
“great fighter,” a “great Marxist.”
It has also proposed a summit con-
ference of the great Powers —the U.S.,
U.S.S.R., the U.K. and France, to which
it has added, for the first time, India —on
disarmament. Nobody but visionaries has
any belief in disarmament by agreement
at this stage ; but the Kremlin would love
an opportunity to divide further the
Western allies in conference.
The Allies —if such they can longer be
called—have refused to oblige.
POLITICAL POINTS
What a pity Disraeli didn’t think to
sell just one little Suez Canal share to
Uncle Sam back in the days when he
was still Cousin Jonathan!
• •
Eden survived the storm caused by his
attack on the Suez Canal and the storm
caused by his withdrawal. Now he s up
against something that could really wreck
his Government —his failure to include a
champion footballer in the New Year
honors list!
• •
While Brisbane hospitals have been
turning away would-be patients from
N S Wales, hotels and guest-houses on
Queensland’s “Gold Coast” have been
turning away would-be holidaymakers
from Brisbane because they’ve been
booked-out by guests from Sydney and
Melbourne. There’s a slight difference,
of course. Brisbane hospitals don’t
charge; Gold Coasters do.
• •
Stalinisation ... De-Stalinisation . . .
Re-Stalinisation. It all sounds like
Bulschev to us!
• •
South Australia’s Tom Playford cele-
brated his G.C.M.G. by informing the
people of his State that overseas interests
had been looking into the possibility of
establishing a shipbuilding-yard for the
construction of 40,000-ton tankers.
Inquiries are one thing; decisions
another. But if nothing comes of the
inquiries it won’t be Playford’s fault.
He’s done other States in the eye before
now and secured for S.A. industries that
no one else gave it a chance of getting.
• •
Playford had another spot of New
Year cheer to offer. Mines Department
experiments had shown that the low-
grade iron-ore that exists in enormous
quantities in the Middleback Ranges
(near Iron Knob) can be up-graded to
make it suitable for blast-furnace opera-
tions. The news revives hopes of a
steel-industry for South Australia.
• •
According to the “News-Chronicle,
Russian athletics officials have apologised
for their team’s walk-out last year over
Nina Ponomareva’s hat-trick and are
seeking a match in London this year—-
and have offered to pay their team s
expenses from Moscow. Any connection
between this report and Nina’s failure to
win the discus-throw in Melbourne is
entirely coincidental.
• •
If it is true, as reported in a Sydney
Sunday paper, that the Meat Industry
Employees’ Union has fined a member
£5 for giving evidence in court against
a fellow-worker charged (and convicted)
of attempting to steal meat from Home-
bush abattoirs, then there is something
very wrong with trade-union thinking.
The Postal Workers’ Union recently
tried to set itself above the law by penalis-
ing members for preferring to obey the
P.M.G. rather than a union instruction.
That was bad enough, though understand-
able against the background of ideologies
that confuse trade-union politics. But
what justification can any union find for
condoning theft and penalising honest
men?
An appeal to the court will no doubt
rectify this injustice, but the action is
symptomatic of a grave moral sickness
that only the trade-union movement itself
can cure.
• • .
Gaitskell’s New Year message to
Britain was that his party was prepared
to take over the Government “as soon
as the electors declared in its favor.”
Evatt could improve on that. He’s
prepared to take over at cmy time.
• •
Penrith, halfway between Sydney and
the Blue Mountains, gets a new industry
with the decision of the Singer Sewing
Machine Co. to establish a £300,000
factory there. The site chosen, about a
mile from the town, comprises 20 acres,
and the plant will produce enough
machines and parts to meet Australian
and New Zealand demands and “a
reasonable surplus for export.”
• •
The argument whether Queensland
hospitals should open their doors to
N. S. Wales patients came to a head last
week when it was reported that Brisbane
General Hospital had refused to admit a
man from Yamba (N.S.W.) who was
suffering with a broken neck. It was
stated that the man was excluded because
the Queensland Health Department had
banned N. S. Wales patients. Reason :
Queensland hospitals are free; those in
N. S. Wales (and other States) aren’t.
While there’s no reason why Queens-
land taxpayers should have to pay tjje
hospital expenses of canny N. S. Wales
taxpayers, the case of the Yamba man
seems rather callous. Many people in
northern N. S. Wales are closer to a
Queensland hospital than to one in their
own State. Surely a compromise could
be arranged? A possible solution would
be for the N. S. Wales hospitals to
arrange for the Queensland Health
Department to act as their agent, authoris-
ing it to collect fees at the N. S. Wales
"The question is, Rasmussen, are they mature enough to accept
the responsibility of self-government ?”
rates and retain them for services
rendered.
• •
A week ago Nehru was liking Ike.
Now he’s not so sure.
• ®
Sydney “Tribune” has discovered that
the help being extended to Hungarian
refugees is merely a cover-up for a vast
slave-labor racket. Quoting a European
source, it says:
Many of the refugees have been shipped
to the Belgian Congo to work in uramum-
mines notorious for their slave-laboi
conditions. Others have been . sent to
plantations and mercury mines in South
America. In Britain, refugees have been
assigned to the most arduous work at old
coal-pits. Belgian coalowners have been
recruiting for their mines, to replace laboi
lost because of the disasters and .wanton
disregard for safety measures. Holland has
put refugees who reached there into
virtual internment on islands.
There’s no mention of what has happened
to the Australian quota, but it shouldn t
take the “Tribune” sleuths long to find
out that the unfortunate Hungarians who
were misled into accepting our hospi-
tality are now slaving in road-gangs
under hellish conditions at Port Arttiur,
Norfolk Island and Botany Bay.
• •
“Stromlo”: Britannia airliners are
scheduled to go into service on the U.K.-
Australia route in March, covering the
route in 48 hours and carrying 6
passengers. The first of these turbo-
prop jets, which cruise at 375 m.p.h., will
be placed on the London-Johannesburg
run on February 1, and later in the year
the Hong Kong, Japan, Aden, Ceylon and
Singapore routes will be serviced by some
of the 33 Britannias ordered by 8.0.A.C.
The size of the earth is shrinking, even
if its troubles aren’t.
• •
Queensland Mines Minister Deviies
is the latest to express doubts as to the
wisdom of a compulsory retiring-age ol
65 in the public service. Speaking at a
presentation to a retiring sixty-fivei
recently he commented on the number
of men who were compulsorily retired
in good health every year, to be snapped-
up by private enterprise. Expectation ot
life is much greater today than it was
a generation or so ago, and, thanks
largely to medical science, men stay
fitter longer. Devries said he believed
the Government would be forced to
reconsider the retiring-age. He didn t
remind his audience that there is no age-
limit for Ministers or M.P.s.
• •
Plans are already afoot for the second
Afro-Asian conference, which may be
held during the second half of this year.
The so-called “Colombo Powers
originally comprised India, Burma,
Pakistan, Ceylon and Indonesia, but they
are now being described as only four in
number, which suggests that Pakistan
may be regarded as somewhat outside the
charmed circle. Indonesian Prime
Minister Sastroamidjojo said in New
Delhi the other day that the four
Colombo Power Prime Ministers had
agreed on' the second conference. He
added that the consultative machinery of
the Colombo Powers to undertake co-
operative action in the economic sphere
would be set up in Colombo. It would
be a small organisation in the beginning,
but the second Afro-Asian conference
might decide on a larger and more per-
manent body.
e •
Queensland is reported to be planning
to buy new locomotives on time-payment.
But isn’t that the way all Australian
railways and rolling-stock were bought?
• •
The joke of the season at U.N.O. head-
quarters is the election of committees.
The Security Council is to consist of,
apart from the great veto Powers, Aus-
tralia, Cuba, Colombia, Irak, the Philip-
pines and the Sudan. The Trusteeship
Council includes Haiti (at present in
chaos), Guatemala and Syria. And the
International Law Commission is to in-
clude representatives of Syria and Egypt
—yes, Egypt, the persistent and shameless
breaker of international law.
• •
“In the ACT”: Although the Minister
for Trade produced some (modified)
feelings of goodwill for Christmas by
announcing on December 21 that there
would be large increases for certain
import-licence quotas for textiles, the
trade had not at the end of last week been
informed of the details. This caused a
good deal of grumbling —as well as some
apprehension that a further lack of co-
ordination between the policy-makers and
the people charged with the detailed
implementing of policy might occur. In
Canberra it was learned that the van ° u s
collectors of Customs in the States had
been informed of the principles behind
the change, but nothing further ihe
delay has annoyed business circles in
the State capitals, and caused a good
deal of amusement in other departments
in Canberra, where Trade hasn t many
friends in the public service.
• •
“Stromlo”: There are now no fears
about the provision of wheat-storages tor
this year. Our export quota under the
International Wheat Agreement is like y
to be about 29.3 million bushels (the hnai
figure will be known when Brazil,
Lebanon, Holland and Panama ratify the
agreement), and with total exports o
130 million bushels for the marketing
season just ended the carryover has been
reduced to 84 million bushels, compared
with 91 million a year ago. The incoming
crop is estimated at only 116 1 million
bushels, compared with 180 million last
season, and it is expected that by Decem-
ber 1, 1957, stocks will be down to_ what
was regarded as normal carry-ovei in the
years before the great world surpluses.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
V|Y wife has spent only £l3 18s. lid.
of the tenner she won in the lott’ry.
—“Apemantus.”
❖ *
“Dolphin”: Off Aitape, New Guinea,
during World War 11, after covering the
Yank invasion, H.M.A.S. Shropshire was
short of petrol for her motor-boats. A
party of us set out in a launch for the
mainland to get some drums from the
Aussie Air Force on Aitape. We got
close to the shore, and an unexpectedly
vigorous and treacherous surf heaved the
boat high-and-dry on the beach. For
gunnery reasons, Shroppie lay 8-10 miles
off-shore. It would take a couple of hours
for another launch to come for us. So
the R.A.A.F. loaded us into a jeep and
took us to the airstrip. The peculiar thing
about this airstrip was that the Japs still
held it! Yanks were trying to alter this
situation; from one end of the strip they
fired savagely on Japs at the other end —
and vice versa. The R.A.A.F. had calmly
moved into the airstrip quarters to one
side of the centre of the field. They were
preparing us a scratch meal. Hell sud-
denly broke out, and a team of Yank
Leathernecks hurtled past the mess-room
door, machine-guns at the ready and
spitting rapid death. They passed. We
sailors rose from under the table. An
R.A.A.F. type was setting-down our
tucker/ “Sorry, boys,” he said; “it isn’t
the freshest.”
❖ »> ❖
“Cash Count”: A 76-year-old Mel-
bourne taxi-driver who has just retired
can recall the days when he averaged 15
miles an hour around the city streets in
his hansom-cab; a speed he has not been
able to maintain in his 23-horse-power
sedan.
♦> ❖ *
“Curio”: It was curious to hear a con-
cert announced as given “by the combined
Victorian and Sydney* Symphony
Orchestras.” Though from N.S.W.,
I do not care which got pre-
cedence ; the difference in titles
intrigues me. It is only in this State
that the capital city and not the
State gives its name to the
orchestra. Judging by the little
that Regional listeners hear of its
performances it is well-named the
“Sydney” Symphony Orchestra.
Maybe Regional programmes in
other States are better than those
inflicted on country listeners in
N.S.W. —broadcasts to schools
and agricultural sessions excepted ;
for we are well served in this
respect in our State.
ijt ifr
“Sue”: This year I celebrated
my 21st birthday, and conse-
quently was told to forget or put
back my age from then on. Of
great assistance was my six-year-
old cousin, who, when his mother
explained that he couldn’t come
to the party because it was for
grown-ups, said, “But Sue’s one
of us.”
“Zorok”: One of the pubs in Devon-
shire-street, Sydney, is the Shakspeare.
I’d never been past it till the other day,
but it’s been there since 1879. What
intrigued me —apart from why the Bard’s
name should adorn a pub, anyway, and
in unpoetic Surry Hills —was the two
spellings of his name. In stone on the
top face of the building, and apparently
carved in that year before The Bulletin
was founded, it’s Shakspeare—the spell-
ing used by The Bulletin. However, the
name has been added twice since, painted
on a comparatively recent street-awning
and in Neon-lights—and both times it’s
the more usual wShakespeare.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Jock”: Remember, a couple of years
ago, * when someone discovered that
chlorophyll, the stuff that gives shrubs
and leaves their green color, was excellent
for whitening teeth and improving the
breath? Manufacturers took up the cry,
and soon almost every factory began
pouring out millions of tubes which
exuded green toothpaste. But the craze
has passed, and now the toothpaste I
use proudly announces itself: “Super-
white.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Bookie’s Dog”: Low’s mention of
boxer Herb McCoy recalled my boy-
hood in Carlton (Vic.). Herb used to
exercise his two bulldogs around the local
“The two boys trailing us seem very nice, Linda."
streets, and whenever he sighted my
cousin and me, who were distantly
related to him, pretended to give chase
with the dogs. The three of them made a
ferocious picture, and to this day I’m not
sure whether I was more scared of the
dogs or of Herb.
❖ *> *
“Longbow”: Remark (B. 2/1 /’57)
about the A.B.C. being “the 8.8.C.’s
jukebox” apart, the 8.8. C. must be the
greatest jukebox-player in the trade. In
the year ended March 31, 1956, its
transcription-service distributed 50,000
recordings of nearly 700 different 8.8. C.
programmes to overseas broadcasting
organisations. It recorded 11,798 hours
of broadcasts on tape and 8913 on disks ;
and recorded 127,866 disks in the year, its
recording-vans covering 330,000 miles.
On sound-radio alone it runs 77 different
Variety programmes a week, and about
1000 short or long Drama programmes a
year. Every year it makes about 140,000
contracts with artists and speakers. In
the year mentioned it commissioned 12
major musical works and broadcast 200
first-performances.
❖ ❖ *
“Roni”: A newspaper quiz to enable
husbands to discover if they had an ideal
wife asked the question:
When you come home at night, would
you rather have your wife greet you at the
front door, wearing: (a) A clean apron? or
( b ) A new dress? or (c) A smile?
Perhaps I’m old-fashioned, but my idea
of an ideal wife is one who would wear
all three, particularly at the front-door.
❖ ❖
“Joanne”: A solicitor arrived late at a
Newcastle (N.S.W.) police court and
breathlessly told the magistrate: “I’m
sorry I’m late ... I haven’t a watch this
morning.” The magistrate (Mr. Gillespie)
was reassuring. “That’s all right,” he
said. “I can give you time if you want
it.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Tabba”: The chap I picked up on the
road was staggering along with a couple
of sizeable suitcases. He explained that
he bought stocks of novelties from a city
wholesaler and hawked them in the
country. “Gotta get a line with a decent
margin,” he said. “Mostly 1 like to find
lines that I can get for two-bob and sell
at teh-bob. It pays me, then.” Particu-
larly when he doesn’t pay fares.
, ♦J*
“Emel”: District football club is
unusually generous in disbursing its
injured-players’ fund. One item in the
printed report presented at the annual
meeting read: “Players’ loss of wagers—
£2l.”
❖ * ❖
“Benbow”: Thirty-odd years ago I was
a passenger from Japan to Sydney in the
old Eastern, in which first-class fares had
to dress for dinner each night or starve.
I had no dinner-suit, but while the ship
stayed—for only one day!— at Hong
Kong one of “Schinf’s” tailors (B.
12/12/’56) measured me at 8 a.m., fitted
me at 9 a.m., again at noon, and I dined
in that dinner-suit at 7 p.m. During sub-
sequent alterations David Jones’ told me
that every stitch was put in by hand.
Years later I found the wife trying this
suit on our eldest son, and I lost it,
though I believe he still wears it to lodge-
meetings. I had another made under
similar conditions in Port Said, though
this one took two days. I found my wife
trying this on our second son, and failed
to recover it. My present dinner-suit was
made in Australia, in a month. It is
kept under lock and key. Unnecessarily,
perhaps, for our two other children are
girls and tbgir retribution falls on my
wife.
■<£« +?♦
“J.J.A.”: Rather glad to hear from
“J. 8.” that Santa can at times relax in the
luxurious plush comfort befitting his
importance (B. 19/12/ ’56). When he
came to my town, I regret to report, he
was to be seen outside one of the garages
in full regalia beneath his truck doing a
few running-repairs, A most versatile old
gentleman.
“Rigel”: Sardines in a Bourke-street
tram, hanging on to their straps and
Christmas packages, had the way lightened
a little by the conductor, busily and
efficiently collecting his fares, calling all
the main stops in the city: “Elizabeth-
street, for G.P.0., State Sav-
ings ’ Bank, London Stores, Myer’s,
St. Francis’s Church and the
House of Commons and Post
Office Club Hotels . . . Swanston-street,
for Buckley’s, Coles’, Woolworths’, the
Leviathan, Foy and Gibson’s, Tivoli,
Lyceum, Esquire and the Royal Mail...
Spring-street, for the Princess and Metro
Theatres, Parliament House, Windsor,
New Treasury and Imperial, and the
Salvation Army Citadel.”
• • • • • •
“Agricola”: Our dustman always
leaves a Christmas-card in the dustbin,
so, as a token* of our
Prominent Citizen decided to leave a
bottle of Scotch on the top of the tin.
As no word of thanks was forthcoming,
he mentioned it to Dusty. “Oh, thought
the stuff was bad and you wanted to get
rid of it. Just dumped it in the tip with
the other stuff.” The wonder in the
town grew daily as Dusty and Prominent
Citizen raked the dump over to find the
Highland Dew.
“Sister Ellell”: One of my patients
appeared clutching his head as a result
of Christmas and pro bono public houso.
His famous last words were, “How glad
I’ll be when all this’s over and I can return
to my normal drinking-habits!”
“Emtee”: Nationally-known quiz-
master, waxing sentimental on his
Christmas Night programme, was
developing the theme that the festive
season was essentially a family time. “In
fact I would say,” he went on, wanning
up to the point of chronological reckless-
ness, “that Christmas has been a family
occasion right from the very beginning of
time! ”
A DOUBLE HONOR
A knighthood, as the year began,
Her gracious Majesty
Conferred on Tooth, the motor man.
For his philanthropy :
Sir Edwin Tooth, all hail, all hail!
And here’s good health To’ee!
We’ll drink a glass of Richmond Ale
In praise of Tooth’s K.B. !
It’s seldom, / will take my oath,
That Majesty can boast
Of knighting in one title both
Recipient and Toast:
Be it from Carlton, Castlemaine
Or Cascade Brewery,
We’ll fill our glasses once again
To honor Tooth’s K. 8.!
If certain types of golden blood
Could be accounted blue,
And honors weren’t for doing good,
What knighthoods might ensue!
Well, Fourex or Bulimba, friend ?
Pour Cooper’s out for me —
Or Swan and Emu or West End —
The toast is, “Tooth’s K. 8.!”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.
O DEER
Thank goodness Christmas Day has
gone;
Now I can turn the wireless on
Quite happily, without the fear
Of having once again to hear
About that certain red-nosed deer
And wish that he were venison.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY


'T'HE area bounded by Fitzroy-street
and Acland-street, St. Kilda, is the
Melbourne counterpart of King’s Cross.
It caters for the same kind of cosmopoli-
tan, flat-dwelling population, and a good
70 per cent, of its business centres
around food. A hungry visitor to the
area can take his choice of half-a-dozen
Chinese cafes, at least a score of espresso
"And, Loot's more, if that thing tons alive tomorrow, I'll bet
five-to-one nobody'd believe it!"
lounges, a bar that serves nothing but
spaghetti and ravioli, and cafes that
serve the national foods of practically
every European country. If he is
eccentric enough he can eat at Chequers,
which has a prominent red neon-sign
outside its door: Australian Food. —
“Cash Count.”
* ❖
“Tabba”: A notice in the bar on
Hayman Island (Q.) states: “Customers
are requested to remain seated while this
room is in motion.”
❖ *4* ❖
“S.S.”: I played lead in one
of Tennessee Williams’s most lurid
one-act plays at a dramatic school
I attend. After the performance
the principal came up to me and
said, “You were very, very good. Did
you know that you sent four people out
of the theatre?” An amateur to the
fingertips!
❖ ♦♦♦ *z*
“Apemantus”: Advocating freedom
from fashion-fads, a “Letter to the
Editor” of the “West Australian”
prophesies dress-reform. “In enlightened
times to come,” it tips, “I believe clothing
will be optional.”
“Woolly”: My cash-and-
carry cobber was not his usual
good-tempered self. “They’ll
try anything to chisel us out of
a few bob,” he snarled. Appears
a bloke presented a few lines at
the desk in the regulation basket,
but held on to a tin of plum-jam.
A request to examine the tin
and several gentle pulls had no
effect, the customer turning the
tin for inspection, but hanging
on grimly. Finally a hefty tug got
possession of the tin —Strawberry Con-
serve, and twice the price of the humble
Plum—and left the phony label with the
ex-customer, who departed p.d.q. “He’d
have got away with it,” growled
C.-and-C., “only he picked a brand that
1 don’t stock.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Burr ImrjT: “Wandana” is not the
only one having trouble classifying motor-
cars. I thought that I had the ’3l-to-’5O
group taped. There were “bombs” and
“heaps.” But at the movies the other
night, in a Hollywood opus, the baddies
entered their lush hide-out —apparently
crime does pay over there —and the stooge
asked, “What shall we take, chief, the new
car or the heap?” Advised “The heap,”
they drove off in a ’55-model Lincoln!
So we’re back where we started.
<J4
‘S.I.S.”: They came out of the corner
pub, both much the worse for wear.
One hailed a taxi and was opening the
door to get in when he changed his mind.
He staggered back to his friend, said
something, came swaying back to the car
and got in. The taxi drove off to the rich
baritone voice of the companion singing
“Now Is the Hour.”
*> ❖ ❖
“Dolphin”: “Englishmen, one pace
forward—march; Colonials, one pace
backward —march.” The command was
bellowed across the English naval
barrack-square. It was executed smartly,
but one forlorn sailor stood alone between
the two divisions. A glaring officer
approached him: “Why didn’t you
move!” he roared. “Well, sir, I’m an
American in the Canadian Navy. Your
order didn’t include me.” “My good
man,” the officer growled, “only two
kinds of people live in this world: Eng-
lishmen — and Colonials J”
*Z* *Z* ❖
“Robbie”: Prize of an unstringable
racquet for the best Davis Cup com-
mentary goes to: “The American has
crashed down an unplayable smash, but
Rosewall has put it back for a clean
winner.”
♦♦♦ *
“Aerogenes”: To observe that the ball
used in a water-polo match is a “round
ball” (B. 26/12/’56) is not just a blinding
glimpse of the obvious. Rugby football,
the American gridiron game and Aus-
tralian Rules are played with a torpedo-
shaped ball: the spinning of the ball
gives greater range and accuracy in both
kicking and passing. Bowls are not
round, but flattened on each side ; and a
punching-ball is pear-shaped. I’ve heard
tell of a Mikado who devised a notable
game using “elliptical billiard-balls.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Narumee”: That too-efficient stage-
lighting, cited by The Bulletin critic’s
comments on the Chinese Theatre Com-
pany’s Melbourne performances, left
some members of the audience in the dark.
Scene: The sleeping-quarters of the inn.
The guest, with ostentatious mime, pre-
pares himself for bed, and blows out the
candle. He poises himself on the couch,
closing his eyes. Enter the landlord,
sword in hand, with murderous intent. He
feels his way across the room, slashes at
the guest, who wakens and leaps to safety.
Follows a superbly funny sequence of
actions in which murderer and murderee
attempt to find each other. Voice from
the woman three along from me: “Why
are they groping around like that? Any-
one’d think they couldn’t see anything!”
<3* *Z* *
“Capella”: “W.P.T.’s” Wentworthville
baker (B. 19/12/’56) could learn a lot
from a pre-war baker in Katherine (N.T.).
Above the bakery-door was printed:
Bill Carter —Mug Baker. 40 Years
a Loafer and Still Making Good
Dough
A sign pn each side of the front-door
notified the public that Weird Pies,
Strange Pasties, Rock Cakes for Road-
making and Love Buns for Lost Vitality
could be bought within.
❖ ♦>
“G.M.”: As part of Tasmania’s festival
to celebrate 100 years of self-government,
searchlights were trained by night on the
pinnacle of Mount Wellington behind
Hobart, with surprisingly ethereal effect.
Not to be outdone, Mother Nature a
couple of nights after the show was over
turned on one of her comparatively rare
lunar rainbows. In glowing and spectacu-
lar colors, it stretched right across the
mountain, beating the man-made illumi-
nations hands-down.
♦> ❖
“Wattlebird”: Met her as she left the
booth. “It depends on how Jack is, the
way I vote,” she ventured. “When he’s
been pretty fair I listen to what he tells
me to do, and do it. When he’s been
dishing it out I vote informal. That’s how
he was today, and that’s what I did.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Siosal”: It’s true that “structure” and
“step-up” have become pets of radio go-
getters (B. 26/12/’56), but they are not
in the race with “underlined” and “high-
lighted.” Those unfortunate lads the
news-announcers are compelled to “high-
light” or “underline” all manner of bits
and pieces, serious or trivial, that
emphasise news —as when a proclamation
by Nasser “highlights” Suez-news, or
when the details of a dinner (very popular
with the A.8.C.) “underline” Christmas
celebrations. And, of course, the news-
papers have their cant-words; “attrac-
tive” (for any female from a surf-girl to
a shoplifter), “shock” (mostly for sport-
ing announcements), “rushed” (an injured
person is never taken to hospital, but
always “rushed”) and “bid” (for anything
from a sally at chess to an attempt at
murder). The lords of language, like
other contemporary lords, make more
and more use of hired robes.
* * *
“Apemantus”: In precise legal language
my manual of commercial law says that
a man may commit an act of bankruptcy
who “departs from his dwelling-house, or
otherwise absents himself, or begins to
keep house.”
♦Jt-
“Stall”: I was ashore in Townsville
(Q.), sozzled. A cop spotted me ; I took-
off, fiercely clutching a bottle. Cun-
ningly, I took a road going up hill,
hoping that I was in better condition than
the John Hop. I looked back. My
strategy seemed to be working, he was a
hundred yards astern and not gaining.
Nor was he losing; the hundred-yard
difference remained. My condition gave
out. With a gasp I fell to the pavement-
in front of the police-station. The cop
lifted me up and helped me inside, with
a word of thanks for my assistance in
getting to the station.
♦I« ❖ ♦!*
“Miss M.”: Proprietors of a smart
hat-and-rag shop built a suburban home,
the last word in modernity and gay con-
trasting colors. Finishing touch was a
Gothic-lettered sign near the front gate:
“The Quillers’ Villa.” A few days later,
the elderly, drab, peeling weatherboard
cottage next door also sported a sign-
board: “Mark’s Ark.”
♦> *l* *z*
“Drico”: He had just bought a radio-
gram, so with a view to educating him
up to the better things I lent him some
Tschaikowsky (“Nutcracker” Suite),
Grieg, Liszt and Beethoven. All of which
he was beginning to appreciate, but I
rushed him on to Wagner too quickly.
When returning “Liebestod,” from
“Tristan and Isolde,” he remarked,
“That’s like death warmed-up.” He
plummeted right back to taws ; I under-,
stand he’s once more a rock-’n’-roll fan.
* ❖
“Ceg”: Among the medals, with
numerous clasps, of a veteran of the
Boer War, is a tin box nicely enamelled
and bearing a picture of the “Widow of
Windsor.” These boxes of chocolate,
presented to the soldiers by Queen Vic-
toria, were much valued as souvenirs. I
heard of one bought in the field for
375. 6d. from a member of a Highland
regiment; but he, cannily, had first eaten
the chocolate. I wonder how many
survive?
DISMAL DISADVANTAGE
“The common cold, which still plagues
humanity after centuries, is not uncommon in
the animal-world. The spiny-anteater is a
frequent sufferer.” —Medical journal.
When alerted and spined
The echidna may seem
Rather fearful;
Yet it's mostly, you’ll find,
That his dial has a beam
That is cheerful.
Only two things will clog
His gay spirits, and get
Temper ruffling:
Mrs. E„ and the wog
That he picks up, to set
Nose a-snuffling.
One, I met on a walk
(Quite an old friend l hold
In affection ;
So I stopped for a talk.
But his look plainly told
His dejection.
He spoke in a voice
Cracked and hoarse ; and oh, my !
He was gloomy.
His language was choice
Too. He bent on me eye
Very rheumy.
“It’s a blagkhard !” he said.
“I dod’t get ady rest
Frob this sdeezig !
Got a code id the head;
Goig dowd to by chest,
Ad Vb wheezig.
But what bakes be bad-
Tebtered” —Pork gave a near-
Raise to bristles —
“Ody thigs to be had
For a doze-whipe roud here
Are Scotch-thistles!
“I’ve lost all sedse of sbell ;
Ad the adts that I’ve et
I’ve dot tasted!
By work’s god to hell
With the tibe, dod’t forget,
That I’ve wasted.
It aul’t fair !” wound up Pork,
“When you get a code you’re
Still quite frisky,
Though you may blow and hawk.
But can we use as cure
Rum or whisky ?’’
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
New Year Knights:
G.C.M.G.:
South Australian Premier Thomas Playford
joins the select band (not more than 100) of
Knights Grand Cross of St. Michael and St.
George. In 1950 he created an Australian record
lor the longest term as a State Premier.
Politics run in the family. His grandfather,
“Old Tom, went into the S.A. House of
Assembly in 1868, was in the Boucaut Ministry
eight years later, became Premier for the first
time in ’B7, was a delegate to early Federal
conferences and was elected to the first Senate.
It was during his last Ministry under Deakin,
in charge of Defence, that the first worth-while
schemes of Australian Naval defence were
born. He lived to see the R.A.N. at work during
the First World War.
In that war his grandson, the present Tom,
served with the 27th Battalion (as did the late
Archie Cameron), Playford joining-up at 19, and
winning a commission. Elected for Gumeraka
in 1933 as a Liberal-C.P. man, he earned a
portfolio by 1938, and the same year succeeded
R. L. Butler as Premier and Treasurer.
K.B.E.: —
Wilfrid • Seiwyn Kent Hughes, chairman of
the Olympic Games Committee (he’s mentioned
elsewhere on this page):
William Francis Langer Owen, Judge of the
N.S.W. Supreme Court since 1937, chairman of
the Central Wool Committee during War II
years, member of the Australian delegation to
the Imperial Wool Conference which set-up a
joint organisation in 1945 to dispose of war-
time stocks of wool, and chairman of the
Espionage Royal Commission in 1954-55.
Richard Kenneth Green, Senior Puisne Judge
of the Tasmanian Supreme Court, M.L.C. for
Launceston from 1946 to 1950, Supreme Court
Judge since 1950.
Leslie Galfreid Melville, Vice-Chancellor of
the National University, Canberra, since 1953,
member of the Commonwealth Bank Board
and Assistant Governor of the Commonwealth
Bank of Australia from 1950 to 1953, economic
adviser to the Commonwealth Bank from 1931
to 1950.
Vice-Admiral Roy Russell Dowling, D. 5.0.,
First Naval Member and Chief of the Naval
Staff, R.A.N., since 1955 ; C. 8., 1955; C.8.E.,
1953 ; Flag-Officer commanding the Australian
Fleet from 1953 to 1954 and Second Naval
Member from 1950 to 1953.
Kt.:
George James Coles, founder of G. J. Coles
and Co. and director of the National Bank of
Australasia. His business-success story after
coming back from War I has become almost
legendary.
Josiah Francis, Australian Consul-General at
New York, before that Minister for the Army
and Navy. He was M.P. for Moreton, Queens-
land, far 33 years and Minister without Port-
folio from 1932 to 1934.
Lionel Alfred George Hooke, managing-
director of Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia),
Ltd., director of several companies, War I
pilot and member of the Shackleton Polar
Expedition. -
Leslie Harold Martin, Professor of Physics at
Melbourne University and adviser of scientific
aspects of defence to the Commonwealth
Government. -
Mark Leddingham Mitchell, Professor of Bio-
chemistry and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of
Adelaide University. Member of the National
Health and Medical Research Council.
William John Jungwirth, permanent head of
the Premier’s Department, Victoria. He was
principal liaison-officer for the Australian State
Governments for the Olympic Games, and was
State director for the Royal tour in 1954.
John Gladstone McDonald, former Premier of
Victoria, who also played a big part in
organising the Games.
George Whitecross Paton, Vice-Chancellor of
Melbourne University. Former Professor of
Jurisprudence and Dean of the Faculty of Law,
Rhodes Scholar, third Australian delegate to the
League of Nations Assembly, and chairman of
the Royal Commission on Television in 1953.
Edwin Marsden Tooth, of Brisbane, chair-
man of Austral Motors, War I M.C. He has
given big sums of money, mainly for education
and medical research.
• •
The Rev. Geoffrey Bingham—otherwise
Geoff Bingham, The Bulletin short-story
writer—is off in April to Pakistan as a
missionary. He and his wife are now'
learning the language.
• 9
It was a happier New Year for Wilfrid
Selwyn Kent Hughes. This time last year
he was in process of being dropped from
the Menzies Cabinet. Now he is Sir
Wilfrid (but “Call me Billy, still,” he
says). The honor was received with
the dignified restraint that bore him
through last year’s Federal furore. At
61 he’s mellower. After two war careers
and two Parliamentary careers, his K.B.E.
crowns the fulfilment of a fine job, the
triumph of the Olympic Games under
his chairmanship of the Organising
, Committee.
It was a State award, of course; not
only appropriate, but convenient that
the Victorian branch of the party that
he has served—and stirred—for so long
should make this recommendation. Only
eight years ago he was Victoria’s Deputy
Premier. Only 20-odd years ago he and
Bob Menzies were Young Nationalists
together (and that was where the
authoritarian touch in the two tempera-
ments first began to clash).
It is still there, under the whitened,
tousled locks and behind the classic
Aussie nose that has so often pointed
steadily into trouble. There were some
pretty brusque Olympic decisions (like
the TV and newsreel restrictions), some
typical gibes (variants of “Go jump in
the lake”), but Sir Wilfrid is a Melbourne
boy and these things caused no surprise.
Like a good son, he gave the ultimate
credit to Melbourne. His honor, he said,
really belonged to the citizens who made
the Olympics a success. Very tactful,
very true ; but Melbourne is satisfied that
his knighthood, like his heart, is in the
right place.
• 9
Sighted in Perth on his way home from
the U.K., Dr. C. E. Fox, a pleasant
round-faced, grey-haired, bespectacled
scholar, missionary, and author, who has
served 55 of his 79 years with the Anglican
Melanesian Mission in the Solomons. A
New Zealander and Science teacher (M.A.
and Ph.D.), he joined the mission in 1901
on San Cristobal, where his first job was
teaching the three R’s to the children of
cannibals. During War II he had a lively
time saving his learned head from
Samurai swords, coast-watching. Having
placed his history of the 107-year-old
Melanesian Mission with a London
publisher, he is returning to his post
of chaplain at mission headquarters in
Gela.
DUBBED G.C.M.G.
Rhodesia’s new university at Salisbury,
Southern Rhodesia, has enticed away
from Auckland University College (N.Z.)
Dr. C. A. Rogers, senior lecturer in
Education. He will fill a similar job at
University College of Rhodesia and
Nyasaland, as well as being in charge of
the sub-department of Psychology. The
doc., who has been with A.U.C. since
1947, takes-over next March.
• •
Five banks combined to establish the
visiting professorship in Economics and
Finance at the Australian National
University in Canberra, and Professor F.
W. Paish, due here at the end of March,
will be the second occupant of the Chair.
Since 1949 he has been Professor of
Economics, with special reference to
business-finance, at the London School of
Economics, having been associated pre-
viously with the London and Cambridge
Economic Service. He and Mrs. Paish,
who will stay six months, expect to travel
widely in Australia. First occupani of
the Chair was Professor J. E. Meade, in
1956. The banks, which are making
annual grants for five years, are the
A.N.Z., Commonwealth, Commonwealth
Trading, E., S. and A., and the Rural
Bank of N.S.W.
e •
“Fitz”: Norman Howard Rice, killed
in a motor-accident on New Year’s Eve
at Balgowlah (Sydney), was an occasional
contributor of black-and-white drawings
to The Bulletin and one of the regular
illustrators for “The Australian Woman’s
Mirror.” Born at Newtown (Sydney) 45
years ago, he was apprenticed to a sign-
writer and in his spare time studied art
under J. S. Watkins, good fellow and
peerless teacher. While still working as a
signwriter, Rice turned to freelance art
and contributed to most Sydney journals
that accepted outside work. Later he
joined “Smith’s Weekly” and stayed with
it till it folded-up. Subsequently he
handled all the art work for Universal
Pictures in Sydney. A year ago, on the
passing of Alex Gurney, creator of the
cartoon-strip “Bluey and Curley,” he
took over the drawing of that popular
newspaper feature. A small, quick-
moving chap, he had troops of friends
who will miss his lively conversation and
his generosity—he was always ready to
lend support to a brother-artist in distress.
• •
, General Sir Geoffry Scoones, winding-
up his term as U.K. High Commissioner
in New Zealand, is one of the crop of
Indian Army officers who reached high
command in War 11. Like Auchinleck, he
went from Wellington College (England)
to Sandhurst. Like Slim, with whom
he served in the Burma Campaign (they
were knighted together), he was a Gurkha
man. He commanded the 2nd Bn. of the
Bth Gurkha Rifles (Slim was with the 6th
Gurkhas) and became Director of
Military Ops. and Intelligence in India
early in War 11. Then he commanded
the 19th Indian Division and later 4
Corps in Burma, moving back to India
as G.0.C.-in-C. Central Command in
1945. C.S.I. in 1942, when he became
a major-general; K.8.E., 1944 ; K.C.8.,
1947. His 0.8. E. dates to 1935, for
work during the big Quetta earthquake ;
his D.S.O. and M.C. go back to 1917.
• •
In the jackeroos’ dining-room on a
Queensland station hangs a four-blade
wooden airscrew, with one
blade snapped off. It
came from a De Havilland
biplane, of the type that
carried three or four
passengers in a cabin, be-
hind which the pilot sat in
an open cockpit. During a
wet spell in the late-1920’s
this machine was chartered
to bring some of the station-
staff from the railhead,
where they were stranded,
and take some others back.
Coming in to land on the
station-strip, a creekside
claypan, the aircraft hit a
dead tree-branch. It landed
on one wheel, buckling the
undercarriage, bounced on
to the other wheel', buckled
that side also, then stood on
its nose. Somewhere along
the way the pilot turned off
the petrol to minimise fire-
risk and jumped out on to
the tail to prevent the
machine from somersault-
ing. No one was hurt. The
pilot rang-up his boss, who
arrived within two hours in
a relief plane with the neces-
sary spares. Both aircraft
took-off for home that same afternoon.
When that little bush air-service grew up
to be Qantas the pilot of the damaged
machine, Arthur Baird, became its chief
flight-engineer. His death was noted here
a couple of years ago. The other pilot
was Sir Hudson Fysh, still the boss.
• •
This is Mayor Bill Fulton, who when
Such drew him in Cairns (Q.) some little
time back was busy starting the wheels
moving for a Tobruk Memorial Olympic
Pool. A native of Cairns, Bill was a
rep. Rugby League footballer, rifle-
shot and hockey-player. In the
2/9th Battalion in 1939, he later
BUILDING WAR MEMORIAL
lost half a foot at Tobruk saving
six of his mates from a booby-trap.
After the war he topped the municipal
elections, and in 1950 became (Mayor.
He’s president of the Rats of Tobruk
Association, whose members raise money
for Legacy. The Rats have donated the
first £lOOO for the pool; ambition is to
model it on the lines of the Canberra
one.
George Wyman Carroll, drawn here
astride a Komodo dragon, really came
into The Bulletin office last week in
more orthodox fashion ; a tall, lean, dark
young American with a pleasant grin and
a look of distances in his grey eyes. At
28, he’s been in every country in the
BITTEN BY DRAGON
world except seven Iron Curtain
countries, either capturing wild animals
for zoos or delivering them. He caught
his first wild animal when he was very
young—a rat in a garbage-tin. Caught a
pair of black-bear, cubs when he was
Six months before that he knew exactly
what he wanted to be, and told his
father: a second Frank Buck.
At Brown University he became keeper
of the mascot, a brown-bear. He caught
rattlesnakes and milked them for anti-
venine, sold bonds, and in 1950 went on
his first expedition, to Brazil, where he
teamed-up with Sasha Siemel, who hunts
jaguars with a spear. Giant otter were
the main spoil of this expedition. Then
back to bond-selling to raise the wind for
another trip. Since then he’s been all over
the place, catching all sorts of strange
beasts, including the rare okapi, or jungle
giraffe.
He came to Sydney after being bitten
by a dragon—the rare Komodo dragon,
a member of the Varanus family (to
which the goanna belongs), found only
on Komodo Island, five islands down
from Java. The dragon is about 12ft.
long, weighs an average 18st., and can
run-down wild-pigs. Doctors at various
hospitals on the way—including Djakarta
and Singapore—wanted to amputate his
arm, which had become gangrenous.
Carroll wasn’t keen on the idea, and came
to Sydney with a letter of introduction to
Sir Edward Hallstrom. At Prince Alfred
Hospital Dr. Officer Brown worked the
oracle.
That was late in 1955. Carroll is back
in business, and dropped in on his way
to New Zealand. He spends an average
of 10 months away from the United
States each year. The office-side of
Wyman Carroll Expeditions Incorporated
is handled by his partner in America.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 58, Albert William Dakin, a
director of the big Sydney store of Farmer’s.
Member of the Retail Traders’ Research Com-
mittee and of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants, he joined Farmer’s in 1926 as
chief-accountant and became a director in 1940.
In Brisbane, at 86, A. W- Martin, manager of
the Brisbane branch of Seppelts from 1922,
when he took-over from X. C. Seppelt, until
1952, when he retired. At various times he had
been president of the Wine and Spirit Associa-
tion and the Wine and Brandy Association, and
was president of C.T.A. in South Australia in
1921.
In Melbourne, at 80, Harold Stewart, Head of
Wesley from 1933 to 1939 and previously
Assistant Headmaster for 30 years. Widely
respected, his influence on the school’s
development was considerable.
At Toowoomba (Q.), Herbert Shanklin
Marshall, formerly of Tipton, near Dalby, well-
known grazier and Old Digger. Active in R.S.L.
and co-op. affairs, he was a foundation-director
of the Dalby Co-operative Stores.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 101, Gertrude,
Merton, widow of A. J. Merton, organist and
choirmaster at Christ’s College for 40 years. A
victim of polio as a child, which left her per-
manently handicapped, she became a teacher
and taught generations in Christchurch for 50
years. A grandson, Thomas Merton, a Trappist
monk in the United States, has written a
number of books.
In Adelaide, at 85, ex-Senator James
McLachlan. From 1918 to 1930 he was
M.H.A. for Wooroora, resigning to become a
member of the Pastoral Board. In 1934 he was
elected a Senator (U.A.P.), retiring in 1947.
He was Chairman of Committees from Dec.!
1937, till 1941. In civil life he was variously
farmer, auctioneer, salesman and businessman.
At Auckland (N.Z.), at 54, James Bennett
Finlay, sub-inspector of police. Among other
well-known cases, he investigated the Bayly
murders at Ruawaro in 1933.




ABORIGINALITIES
'THE vast, arid Nullarbor Plain, seem-
ingly the most unlikely spot in Aus-
tralia for the establishment of an industry,
nevertheless has a thriving one —rabbit-
trapping. Four freezer-units operate
there; one near Madura, one towards
Ceduna, another at Cocklebiddy and a
fourth at Rawlinna. Two trucks bring
between 3000 and 4000 pairs of rabbits
to Perth each week. A good trapper can
earn between £lO and £2O a day. It is all
made possible by the Plains’ freedom from
myxtfmatosis,—“Nimrod.”
* * * * '
“Pat-Eff”: Queensland trains do one
thing really well, so it was without hope
that I asked if the Nine-o’clock was on
time. “Oh, no,” said the stationmistress,
“that one never runs on time because it
only comes one station, but the nine-
twenty-three is always reliable as it has
fifteen miles in which to make up time.”
She was quite serious.
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Any author writing on
naval matters pertaining to any period
since Jellicoe who mentions “immaculate
teak decks” is talking through his hat,
cocked or otherwise. Teak, under shell-
or bomb-impact, produced splinters that
were fantastically mutilating and as fire-
starters were a housewife’s dream. As
soon as World War I was over the
Admiralty ruled that decking-timber for
everything from mine-sweeper to battle-
ship was to be Borneo white serayah.
Until that time a Cinderella of Malayan
forests, only in slight demand for wooden
clogs, it was often left unfelled in the
timber-workings. Botanically Parashorea,
the Malays call it urat mata because of
its bark configuration. On highlead
logging shows, it was a
favored spar-tree as it
usually forked at about
120 ft. and that was handy
to hang the 3cwt. “bull”
block on.
* *
“Quo Vadis”; Asked
what had occurred to ruin
a glorious friendship on
the construction-job, Joe
said: “Ar, Bill’s too thin-
skinned. All I said when
he was goin’ on holidays
was, ‘Well, I’ll just check
your swag before you
leave.’ ”
* * *
“Lyle”: Samoans must
be the cleanest people in
the world, according to
Keith Ransom, manager of
a soap-factory in western
Samoa. Samoa’s native
population of about 10,000
use an average of 50 tons
of soap each month.
They spend hours every
day swimming in pools,
streams or the ocean
and are always wash-
ing themselves or their clothes. His
company sells plain bar washing-soap, to
the natives at 2s. a bar. Everywhere a
Samoan goes he carries his soap-bar with
him. Lately the natives have hinted to
Samoan soap-manufacturers that if the
price doesn’t come down they may revert
to the soap of their ancestors —a certain
tree-leaf which lathers when soaked in
water and rubbed over the body,
* * * *
“Angus Bob”: That 30-year-old battle-
ship Centurion, sailing the high seas
rigged as a modern-class battleship of
1941, caused mild bewilderment in
Service circles, whatever her effect was
on Schmidt der Spy (B. 19/12/’56). Her
use as a block-ship at Tripoli was con-
sidered, but plans were altered and she
ambled round the coast of Africa to
Suez. The ship’s company had steaming-
kit only for a short, snappy expedition.
At Freetown various bits of aged
machinery sent for repair puzzled the
engineers in the repair-ship. Cape Town
and Durban were visited at intervals, the
ship entering harbor at dusk and leaving
before dawn. Certain senior officers
began to inquire why so young a captain
should have so senior a command.
Having shown the flag, at a discreet
distance, for almost a year, Centurion
anchored at Bombay, where she remained
for some nine months, for all to see.
Then she was sent to Malta with stores,
“Very funny!”
also acting as a stooge in convoy. She
was bombed and returned to Alexandria,
but was back in England in time to be
fitted-out for the Normandy landings,
where she was scuttled as a unit of a
breakwater at Varreville.
* * * *
“Phil Anthus”: Isaac Nichols’s large
quantities of land in Sydney (B.
26/12/’56) are not his chief claim to
commemoration. He was Australia’s first
postmaster. He landed that job (rather
more placid than his previous one of
overseer of convicts) in 1809, the Lieut.-
Governor of the day having “been
pleased to establish an office at which all
“ Isn't it a relief to get away from the city , love?”
parcels and letters addressed to the
inhabitants of the colony shall be
deposited previous to their distribution,
which office shall be under the direction
of Mr. Isaac Nichols.” Earlier Isaac had
got into strife, being accused of
“receiving”; he was found guilty after
a lopsided trial, but Governor Hunter
disagreed with the verdict and got him
a pardon, thereby saving the embryo
postmaster an enforced stay of 14 years
on Norfolk Island.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: As a rival for the Maori
in his willingness to pledge recklessly his
future earnings in return for acquisition
of some good of the moment (B.
5/12/’56) I nominate the charmingly
insouciant folk who people the barmy
isles of Torres Straits, where “slop-chest”
or “tick” is a much-loved system. In the
trading-station where I worked a customer
asked the indulgence of “slop-chest” for
a bag of flour on the security of the
baby-bonus payable under an Island
Fund subsidised by the “Gubmint.”
Knowing the suppliant as not a good
mark and not above all manner of
subtleties to obtain credit, I refused the
request, telling him, “You’re not even
married, Esili!” Came Esili’s indignant
rejoinder: “I pinish get married last
night, Bawss!”
* '# * *
“D.S.”: Just as well the “potato-apple”
has such a repugnant taste (B. 26/12/’56).
This fruit produces seeds from which
potatoes can certainly be grown, but the
seeds themselves are poisonous to
humans. In one Dorothy Sayers crime-
thriller a child was murdered by being
encouraged to eat these fruits, which
contain solanine, a deadly poison.
Another poison to beware of is the
oxalic-acid found in rhubarb-leaves.
During a shortage of green vegetables
some time ago an Australian paper
advised cooking them as cabbage!
“J. 8.”: The two properties
sharing the same back-fence,
it was customary for the
respective boundary-riders to
apportion the work by start-
ing out from opposite ends,
meeting in the middle for
lunch and a yarn, thus man-
aging to combine both busi-
ness and pleasure. The Mt.
Helen jackeroo was boiling
his quart when the very raw
recruit from Myall Downs
rode up. “Good day,” said
the Mt. Helen bloke ; “you’re
just in time for a billy of
tea. Smith’s my name. I’m
a jackeroo on Mt. Helen.” The newest
recruit looked him up and down. “And
I’m Mr. Jones,” he said, “ pastoral
student from Myall Downs. How do
you do?”
* * * *
“Bellfield”: “Weary” Dawson inherited
the nickname, the indolence that had
earned it, and the neglected farm from
his father. Under the new management
the farm steadily grew even worse:
rickety fences collapsed, drooping gates
fell off their hinges, sheds leaning away
from the westerlies lost all sense of
gravity, and the most flourishing crops
grown on the place were thistle and stink-
wort. Then Weary decided to sell-out and
buy a good sort of a property. He put the
sale in the hands of an agent, and kept an
eye on the “Property for Sale” ads. in the
district rag, in the hope of picking up a
bargain. At last the kind of place he was
looking for came up: good fences,
buildings in first-class repair, flourishing,
free of noxious weeds, beautifully kept
homestead, magnificent position, etc. He
drove flat-out to town for fear somebody
might beat him to the bargain. But, after
giving it some thought, he didn’t want to
buy his own.
* * * *
“ ’Ermit”: There’s nothing in the world
to equal the swarms of mosquitoes that
descend on the Sepik at dusk. They come
in vast dark clouds, and their singing is
a loud, sustained, whining note. Natives
weave a great cone of fine fibre about sft.
across at the base and 15ft. long, with a
2ft. opening at the narrow end. When the
mossies arrive the whole family, dogs and
piglets included, dive into the net —last
human in pulls the drawstring. Even in
the daytime on the Sepik mossies are a
serious pest—everybody carries a whisk
with a looped cane handle and a long
tuft of cassowary-feathers.
* * * *
SCORN not the journalese of small-
town newspapers. Those trite cliches
and pompous platitudes have become,
from long use, almost a technical
language, as formal as any used in
science, business correspondence, ritual or
legal documents.
Where most of his income is got from
job-printing and advertising, it is very
much to the advantage of the owner-
editor-printer-and-publisher to promote
the social harmony as well as the business
welfare of the community in which he is
usually a prominent figure.
It is far too easy to offend Mrs. Church-
Fete by not giving her function as good
a report as that of Mrs. Charity-Dance ;
therefore the wise and kind thing to do is
to use precisely the same terms for each.
Every audience must be a “large and
appreciative” one, and even if there were
three fights in the lobby and the M.C.
fell asleep it is still correct to say that
“a good time was had by all.” People get
the local news they want, and they are
happier to have it phrased in the well-
known way, nothing startling or hard to
follow.
After the first 10 years or so the type-
setting of these phrases becomes com-
pletely instinctive—in fact they almost set
themselves. When our Mr. Inkspot dies,
I shall expect the type to leap unaided
out of the cases to form his obituary
notice. The last words are sure to be
“mourned by all.” They will never have
been more apt—or more true!
AEROGENES.
CHANNEL WATERS
Down where the Channel waters wait
On the grey downs rolling over
And cattle browse in the knee-high
grass
Or crop at the sweet wild-clover
The sandhills shelter a secret spot
Where the black duck breed at will
On the green-lipped banks of a reedy
marsh
Where even the winds are still.
Pads of cattle and kangaroo
Powder a dusty trail
To its hidden deeps where the water’s face
Mirrors the drifting sail
Of sullen clouds in a summer sky
And wild mimosas swoon
’Neath a fragrant burden of golden
wealth
In the high clear heat of noon.
Out of the scrubs the wild bulls come,
Ragged and red of eye,
Shepherding shy reluctant cows
To drink ; and the dingoes lie
In the straggling thorn-tree’s scanty shade,
Tense-haunched and taut with fear,
When a whip-crack cutting a distant curse
Speaks of the riders near.
Parrakelia and parrot-bush
Shelter this quiet place,
Where the black man practised his tribal
rites
Under a full moon’s face.
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


FIESTA at the tropical N.Q. Italian
farrhhouse, and the big, one-eyed,
sulphur-crested cockatoo refused the beer
and spirits pressed on him by merry
guests. But he buried his beak in his
owner’s wine-goblet and tilted the sweet
liquid down his throat. As our
“He New Australian too! —“Quo
Vadis.”
* # =K *
“loane” (Samoa): This character Q.
Ree” (Fiji) seems to be copping all the
lolly for pars, from the Pacific. It’s time
for another Aussie, further out and up,
to move in. Hildegarde Thieme, the two-
year-old daughter of my neighbor Dr.
Hans Thieme, makes that little Fijian
babbler appear subnormal (B. 21 /11 / ’56).
She greets me with “Talofa, Uncle John,
vie gehts?” and proceeds to converse in
three languages on the topics that interest
her. I can hold up my end in Samoan and
English to her satisfaction, but she puts
on a mighty show of exasperation when
I get stumped t?y her German. Her
parting “Tofa ; Hildegarde talk nut Sofi
is delivered more scornfully than the
brush-off I once got from a verse-editor.
t- * * *
“Kros”: In prehistoric times, when the
ocean often covered large parts of Aus-
tralia, the submerged areas differed in
different ages ; Central Australia, for one,
was seldom, if ever, dry land until the sea
receded completely in fairly recent times.
That this sea existed has been proved, the
latest confirmation being adduced a few
months ago by the discovery in the Water-
house Ranges, near Alice Springs, of the
tiny jaws and teeth of the conodont, an
extinct species of sea-dwelling worms.
This fossil discovery, described as of
“great significance in Australian
geological history,” was made by Adelaide
geologist Dr. R. O. Brunnschweiler while
looking for signs of oil in the area.
“I KNEW he'd make the weight!"
“Harbel”: I’m not convinced that the
professional canary-breeder can ensure
the eggs will all hatch-out on the one
day if he removes them as they are laid,
and returns them to the nest in a clutch.
Air-pockets form inside the shells of eggs
as they grow staler, and in my experience
the staler the egg the slower the chick is in
hatching. As for the older, and therefore
stronger, chick pushing the younger ones
aside at feeding-times, it doesn’t work out
that way with budgerigars. The hen-
budgie will often spread her laying over
nine or 10 days, but begin sitting when the
first egg is laid. The result is a spaced
family ; how Mum manages it 1 don’t
know, but they all seem to get their fair
whack, and the chick from the last-laid
egg grows into just as big a little bird as
his oldest brother.
* * * *
“Saus”: A.B. Joseph P. O’Dowl (B.
12/12/’56) is a liar. Oh, it’s not his
explanation I disbelieve —I’ve seen just
as strange things in the Service —but,
quote “When I get to my cabin . . . sits
on chair by my bed” unquote. Cabins
for A.B.s! Beds at sea! And chairs outside
the wardroom! What sort of a pusser
ship was it? I suppose the Chiefs and
p.o.s each had a suite of cabins complete
with tigers and the wardroom was ashore,
officers performing their duties by remote-
control. I must have done my time too
soon. Is there a pub in Flinders-street,
Townsville?
* * * *
“Benbow”: Other places besides banks
wash money (B. 12/12/’56). When I.was
a young man trading in the islands. 1
often saw a finicky supercargo boil ?
hundred quid’s worth of silver in a kero-
sene-tin on the galley-stove. It may have
been dirty, but it was valuable, and when
he took it ashore in the whaleboat, or in
a canoe, it always had a long line fastened
to it with a float on the end, in case the
boat capsized.
* * * *
“Brick E.”: I can assure C. McNeil (B.
12/12/’56) that there need not have been
a “slight exaggeration” in the reports of
Argentine-ants eating out mortar-joints
from brickwork. Speaking broadly,
three kinds of mortar may be used m
brickwork: lime-mortar, composed of
lime and sand ; “compo,” of lime, sand
and a variable quantity of cement; and
cement-mortar, of cement and sand with,
perhaps for the sake of workability, a
small quantity of lime. No ant in the
world could bore through faithfully-
mixed cement-mortar; and if the pro-
portion of cement is adequate, compo can
be nearly as hard. But lime-mortar, even
at its best —made from rock-lime slaked
on the job—can be scratched out of the
joints with a blunt nail, while some of the
ready-mixed stuff .. . ! There is a wog
which can play havoc with lime-mortar
and even weak compo. Resembling a
small earwig, it burrows into the joints,
kicking the mortar out in a fine dust
behind.
* * * *
“Henry Wadsworth”: “Pip Tok” (B.
19/12/ ’56) can now add his own touch
of royal purple to the blue of which he
accused “Fitz.” Unless my memory has
become as senile as the years have made
my body, .the “Duke and Duchess of
York” were known, at the relevant time,
as the Duke and Duchess of Cornwall
and York. Norton’s “Truth,” in ribald
vein, made it “Yawnwell and Cork.”
“Meliphaga”: I doubt if the fox has
been, or will be, as “Salmon Gums (B.
26/12/’56) appears to suppose, a decisive
factor in bringing about the near-
extinction of W.A.’s remarkable scrub-
bird and bristle-bird. Those two species
are, in effect, in the process of committing
suicide through having become too
specialised. Both of them at one time
extended right across this continent, but
the intermediate links fell away through
climatic changes affecting their habitat,
leaving only each end of the chain at
each side. Then, as the process of
specialisation continued, the remaining
birds came less able to withstand modern
conditions. Both species were rare when
white settlement began, and clearing of
the country has merely hastened a decline
for which Nature itself was responsible.
* * * *
“’Ermit”: No wonder
unable to identify his “rare species” (B.
5/12/’56). From the description it was
obviously the Nonesuch Wasp ( Chimcera
incredibilis ). This is a hybrid, one parent
having fed as a larva on trefoil (hence
"Ah got so much on my mind Ah cant think!"
the three pairs of wings), the other
(female) parent having been frightened by
a funnel-web spider just prior to laying
(hence the web-building). Interestingly
enough, these developmental and pre-
natal influences are never fixed in the off-
spring under natural conditions, but the
presence of radioactive particles from an
atomic-bomb fallout on the trefoil, and
the coincidence of a target-strike by a
cosmic ray on the yolk-gland at the exact
moment of being frightened by the spider,
must have accounted for the phenomenon.
It is a pity that “Kelms’s” kindly instincts
prevented his capturing the specimen,
because such hybrids are always sterile,
owing to the presence of bolonium in the
fallout, and this rare and wonderful
insect ivill now, alas, be for ever lost
to science.
* * * *
“Woorarra”: So far as I know, the
noisy scrub-bird and the night-parrot are
the only Australian birds that may reason-
ably be deemed extinct, and the curious
feature about this is that, while the
white man has been wholly responsible
for the extreme scarcity of many species,
these two were apparently written-off by
Nature herself. The noisy scrub-bird
inhabited a small coastal stretch of
southern W.A. and hasn’t been seen for
over 70 years. The habitats it favored
were not likely to be much disturbed by
human influence up to the time of its dis-
appearance, The night-parrot, a denizen
of the desert, was not affected by close-
settlement. A ground-nester, it possibly
abandoned in comparatively recent times
the habit of its kind of nesting aloft, and
was unable to adapt itself to riskier
nesting-methods. The noisy scrub-bird
was a defenceless fowl, almost flightless,
a ground-nester, and, for the rest, a some-
what archaic avian form.
•*’ * *
“Maitri”: The first robin-redbreasts I
saw in England were an acute disappoint-
ment —not red at all, but merely pink or
orange at the best. Nostalgically my
thoughts turned to the scarlet-breasted
robins near South Australia’s Mount
Bryan, and I decided the northern ones
were a poor substitute. That particular
English Christmas turned out to be a rare
“white” one. Walking along a Wiltshire
lane on Christmas morning I happened
on some robins hopping about on a holly-
spray. Then I knew when the European
robin is to be seen at his best: his breast
made vivid-enough contrast to the snow-
blanketed countryside.
• * * *
“Inton”: Townsville (Q.) 1942: The
U.£. soldier was accepted into the im-
pecunious family-circle, became literally
its head man. His magic touch provided
all the scarce mealtime luxuries. At Sun-
day dinner, when Dad admonished the
kids for eating too much, the big
American negro spoke from the top of
the table: “Boys, youall eat as much as
you want. I is in charge here, and I is
payin’ for dis ice-cream!” Those were
the days!
* * * *
THE dividing of Pacific races into
either betelnut-chewers or kava-
drinkers is accurate enough—the two do
not seem to go together. Roughly, the
Polynesians favor kava, the Melanesians
and Papuans betelnut.
Kava contains an alkaloid which is
released by fermentation (the ferment
usually provided by the saliva of the
women who chew-up portions of root for
the brew), and which acts on locomotion.
A heavy session at the kava-bowl leaves
the mind crystal-clear, and produces a
glorious sensation of well-being and
pleasurable satisfaction; but the legs
won’t function.
The alkaloid of betelnut, also released
by the action of saliva, plus lime or
potash, gives the same type of pleasurable
and contented feeling, but it is fairly
stupefying, as one finds when one’s boi
(employee) fumbles awkwardly around his
work on Monday morning after a week-
end’s singsing with extra rations of buoi
(betelnut).
Missions and well-meaning officials do
the Polynesians no service when they ban
kava ; it is a rich source of essential
vitamins, as is also the palm-toddy of the
East Indies, Malaya, and parts of India,
and the maize-beer of the Kaffirs, though
the last two contain a fair percentage of
alcohol as well. Deficiency-diseases make
their appearance soon after any of these
tipples is prohibited.
Betel-chewing is said to supply vitamins
too, but the amount is probably neg-
ligible ; it also gets credit for preserving
the teeth and preventing New Guinea
mouth-disease, but this is problematical.
The unpleasant things about it are the
thick black coating it gives the teeth and
the great splotches of red spittle broad-
cast by the chewers.
A Beatrice Grimshaw anecdote con-
nected with this relates that on her first
visit to Port Moresby she was the victim
of a leg-pull by a local wag, and wrote
of the natives returning to town from
their villages on Sunday dight “with their
mouths dripping red from their cannibal
feasts
In Malaya “tuba,” or palm-toddy, is
collected by tightly binding the palm-
flower spathes with thin strips of cane or
fibre, cutting across the end of the spathe,
and beating it with a little mallet; drip-
ping into earthenware pots or gourds, the
juice is collected daily. A slice is taken
off the end of the spathe after each col-
lection, and the end again beaten.
After standing, the juice ferments and
develops a progressively higher alcohol-
content, but if left too long it goes flat
and vinegary. At this stage it may be
placed in sections of bamboo ; it then
deposits a sediment which hardens into
a small cake closely resembling brown-
sugar (called gula in Malaya), which,
among other uses, is superb in coffee,
though it spoils the flavor of tea.
It is usually found that the Malay or
Tamil who runs amuck has fortified
himself with excessive drinking of palm-
toddy—it is a very potent and exciting
tipple.
FLAUMONT.
NIGHT FISHERMEN,
MERIWETHER
No moon or stars. The clouds hang low
and black
Over the beach, snarling electric anger.
The night boils, but the sea lies still,
Awed by the turmoil in the sky,
The jagged spears of lightning.
Along the beach, in the instant lightning
stabs, . ,
Men are revealed. The fleeting seconds
show them,
Standing silent, staring at the sea,
Caught sometimes casting lines or walking
slow, .
Barefooted in the. sand, always in panther
movement,
Silent, black. All men at night are
aborigines.
The anger dies. The spears pass; and the
black men die
Into the sea-lapped Dreamtimd of the
dark.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
Tlje METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Business, Robbery, Etc
“The Worldly Hope. ...”
TVTOW the New Year reviving
old Desires, the thoughtful
soul has approached the Aus-
tralian Stock Exchanges, on their
reopening, a little wonderingly,
a little hopefully.
The national balance-of-
payments position is better,
largely because of higher
export values; the credit
position, fundamentally, is
easier; inflationary trends are
reviving interest in equity invest-
ments, even if disturbing in their
likely general effect.
On a world-wide scale there
is the question of what under-
lying effect (especially infla-
tionary) on international
economics the developments
which followed Egypt’s expropri-
ation of the Suez Canal are
likely to have. Already they
appear to have accelerated a
normal firming trend in wool
prices. But the chain-reaction
which Suez has begun, including
British-French military action
and U.S. and Russian diplomatic-
cwm-military activity, is likely
to be a feature of the whole of
1957, in the economic sphere
as elsewhere.
Suez will, in short, mean much
more economic disturbance than
we have bargained for up till
now. How it will be met among
the Western nations remains to
be seen. The International
Monetary Fund has been prompt
in its assistance to the U.K., and
United States has been helpful in
its attitude at the lending level;
but what one would like to see
is a United States political
policy that would permit other
countries, especially those previ-
ously impoverished by war in
defending the United'States as
well as themselves, to re-establish
themselves on a sounder basis
than one of mere dependence
upon dollar doles.
The U.S.A. has never been
co-operative in world trade, and
its foreign policy, at the moment
most apparent in the Middle
East, is now making it more
difficult for European countries
to restore their economic
independence and to get free of
dollar doles. Both the United
States and the Soviet Union—
though by vastly different
methods—make it difficult for
other countries to trade freely
and competitively.
The United States as a Pro-
tectionist country is economically
ridiculous in our times.
But whilst the United States
retains a Customs-duty on wool
imports, it is still buying a
considerable quantity of Aus-
tralian wool, and this efficient
Australian primary industry
remains the backbone of our
external trade, with customers
in all parts of the world.
Apart from primary products,
Australia is developing trade in
a variety of exports, including
some token shipments of Holden
cars. More important, on present
figures, are exports of surplus
output of wire, wire-netting and
piping from our steel industry.
But though, on basic economic
trends, the new year has opened
with more optimism and heavier
trading on the Australian Stock
Exchanges, for the present
industrial activity is undergoing
a slight setback. This applies
to some key industries, such as
building, as well as to those
engaged in production of
electrical goods, certain textiles,*
and many kinds of “consumer
durables.”
Whatever the ultimate effect
on our internal economy of
higher wool prices and a better
trade-balance, right now business
is slower in the retail trade and
the motor industry, for example.
The year therefore opens on an
uncertain but particularly
interesting note. Many national
jobs that were hitherto imprac-
ticable because of shortage of
manpower and materials (such
as steel) should now be capable
of fulfilment. An indication of
this is seen in the present forest
of new buildings rising-up in
Sydney, after many years of
negligible city building activity.
The inflation factor, inter-
nationally as well as domesti-
cally, will be a first economic
consideration during 1957.
Already it is affecting our over-
seas shipping freights.
Oil Retrospect
[From L. Owen]
'“THE past year must be
classed as disappointing for
petroleum-exploration in Aus-
tralia. At Exmouth Gulf 1956
opened hopefully after an
almost completely barren 12
months of what I (rightly or
wrongly) consider misdirected
search —with the frank admis-
sion of P. F. LeFevre, managing-
director of Wapet, that a
re-evaluation of all geophysical
and geological data pertaining
to the Rough Range structure
was necessary.
A promising change in policy,
in the study of what must still
be considred as the most im-
portant operational region on the
Australian mainland, had already
been made by extending drilling
activities as far west as possible
(in both the geological and
geographical senses) to Dirk
Hartog Island. Here, the first
deep test is on the point of start-
ing after the way has been;
prepared for it by the sinking of
16 shallow structural bores. This
is certainly the most intriguing
location yet drilled by Wapet.
Concurrently, the geological and
geophysical examination of
Barrow Island (B. 7/11 / ’56)
should ' arouse considerable
interest.
In view of the data obtained
with reference to the Birdrong
sandstone underlying Rough
Range, the decision to test further
this horizon (or the “marker”
horizons above it) in the southern
part of the structure is difficult
to understand, particularly as
what appeared to be more
attractive areas were awaiting the
drill. Rough Range South wells,
Nos. 1 to 4 inclusive, were
stopped before reaching the
Birdrong horizon. No. 5 well
first struck the sand at 3770 ft.,
where it contained brackish
water ; at 4287 ft. it was believed
to have passed through the fault-
zone constituting the reason for
the location of the well, which
was abandoned at 4760 ft. No. 6
well was stopped at 1594 ft.
A move in what seems to be
the right direction—although
without enough westing, in my
opinion—has been made in
drilling Exmouth No. 1 well
(three miles north-east of Rough
Range No. 1 well) to 1759 ft. and
No. 2 (six miles north-east of
R.R.I) to 2029 ft. No attempt
seems to have been made to get
below —or even to reach —the
Birdrong horizon in this area.
This is a pity, as the answer to
the Carnarvon Basin riddle rests,
I believe, in beds below the
Cretaceous.
North of Exmouth Gulf little
of note has been recorded,
although the Department of
National Development has made
three nibbles at the Canning
Basin, presumably in the hope
of attracting oil-seekers to the
district.
“Hes got the knack of looking busy when the
boss appears."
In South Australia, the Wil-
katana series of shallow bores
has, continued to encounter —as
might be anticipated—traces or
slicks of oil at or near the
Cambrian-Tertiary unconformity
and the possible drilling-area is
being extended by geophysical
survey.
In Victoria, the Gippsland
wells have been uniformly dis-
appointing.
In New South Wales, small
quantities of gas probably
derived from coal have been
struck in lenses in the Hawkes-
bury sandstone and in the
Narrabeen beds overlying the
Upper Coal measures.
No oil-strike of importance
has occurred either in Queens-
land or the Northern Territory.
In Papua, the outstanding event
of the year has been the piercing,
at a depth of less than 1000 ft.
at Kuru, of a large reservoir of
high-pressure “wet” gas. This
has not yet been followed by
the discovery of liquid petroleum,
but it is a favorable augury.
Economic Myths
[By Eugene B. Black, president, In-
ternational Bank lor Reconstruction
and Development (World Bank)]
■ECONOMIC development is a
fickle process. It creates new
problems even as it solves old
ones; it satisfies immediate
demands only to create new and
larger demands. And, most
important, it destroys old atti-
tudes towards life and work,
even as it creates materials for a
better life.
In the less developed areas of
the world today the old stabilities
which becloud development
policy.
Let me cite a few of these
myths by way of example.
First there is the myth that
today only Governments can
produce economic growth fast
enough and of the right
character. *
Let me concede at once that
there may be no substitute for
Government in a great many
instances when it comes to
getting development off the
ground. In most underdeveloped
countries the Government has,
and probably must have, the
primary responsibility for pro-
viding basic facilities on which
sustained growth can flourish.
But it is a dangerous myth
to believe that economic develop-
ment is a matter for Govern-
ment alone. The great and grow-
ing reservoir of human energy in
the less developed countries
today cannot possibly find a
constructive outlet if all decisions
affecting economic growth are
left to the State. The enthusiasm
and potential contribution of
every individual must be courted
in a successful development
programme. And that means
leaving a wide area of freedom
for individuals to follow their
own development initiatives and
encouraging them to do so.
Then there is the myth that
inflation is a handy device for
making development painless.
I’m glad to say I think this myth
is almost ready for burial. There
is a growing awareness of how
inflation erodes savings, destroys
the criteria for judging the
soundness of investment, and
plays havoc with a country’s
are still crumbling as the minds
of more and more millions are
opened to new hopes and ambi-
tions. The process of develop-
ment has brought, with its
benefits, turmoil and discontent
which could thwart further
development if not threaten the
very foundations of world order.
Yet we also know that
economic development is neces-
sary for the kind of world in
which people everywhere live
and grow in peace. We know
that the problems economic
development creates the
turmoil and discontent, the new
hopes and ambitions —can only
be made manageable with more
economic development. The
process must go on. It must go
on steadily in the less developed
countries until some new
stability is achieved which is
compatible with the security and
welfare of people everywhere.
I think there is a growing
awareness of the importance of
objectivity in development policy
in the less developed countries
today. But a great deal more
is needed, and to get it we must
first clear away several myths
balance -of - payments. [W. S
Robinson, please note!]
But it is still difficult to find
objective thinking about the
practical steps needed to combat
inflation. Probably the hardest
decision we in the Bank have to
make comes when we feel we
must suspend lending to a
member country because we
believe inflation is undermining
its credit and the vitality of its
development efforts.
Our action is almost bound to
give rise to acute resentment. I
will defend to the limit, however,
the Bank’s obligations to with-
hold support from Govern-
ments which fail to deal effec-
tively with inflation or with the
threat of inflation. The myth
that inflation is harmless is
dying, but we still have a long
way to go before it is securely
laid to rest.
Finally, I would like to
mention the myth that the private
foreign investor today is merely
an up-to-date version of the old
colonisers. Sometimes I think
all our stereotypes of foreigners
are at least 50 years out-of-date.
We tend to believe that while our
own lives are changing, the rest
of the world is standing still.
This kind of myth is by no means
peculiar the less developed
countries.
The facts are that today there
are not, in my opinion, enough
foreign investors clamoring at
the gates of the less developed
countries. Those who are
established, or would like to be
established* have changed in
their attitudes and outlook just
as have the people of the less
developed countries themselves.
Certainly the private foreign
investor wants and is entitled to
a fair return of his contribution.
But I could point to a host of
examples to prove that the
return asked today is far different
in amount and character from
that which the foreign investor
took 50 to 100 years ago.
The danger today is not that
the foreign investor will ask too
much of a developing country,
but that the developing countries
will do too little to attract him.
Today the foreign investor
cannot go into a country unless
he is actually wanted by the
people of the country. By
indulging the myth that the
private investor is trying to force
an entry to engage in some sort
of evil exploitation, the less
developed countries are cutting
themselves off from one of the
most productive sources of
development assistance available
to them.
The capital and skills which
the private investor brings with
him may not be available from
anyone else. Particularly he
brings with him the skills of
industrial management skills
Which have to be seen in action
to be learned.
If a country is bent on
industrialising and having the
benefits spread broadly among
the people, it can do itself no
better service than to seek out
the private investor abroad who
is willing to risk his capital on
the chance of a fair return on a
successful venture.
Death of
the Hindenburg
On May 6, 1937, while landing
at Lakehurst, N.J., after a
peaceful Atlantic crossing, the
great dirigible Hindenburg sud-
denly burst into flames and
exploded.
January Header's Digest tells
you of the tragedy that ended
the era of the great dirigibles,
together with “There’s no sub-
stitute for parents”; “It all
started with Eve”; "The magic
metal called Lithium”; “The
best things cannot be hurried”;
and a long condensation of
Rear-Admiral Byrd’s enthralling
book “Alone.”
Get January Reader's Digest
from your newsagent or book-
stall today—only 2/-.


SYDNEY
Is Your Security
When you profit by the
5i% City of Sydney Loan-
Make Australia’s First City
Your First Investment in 1957!
Now, for the first time in twenty-five years, you have the opportunity to profit by
the development of Sydney. Your money will earn a steady 5| per cent, annually
throughout the term you prefer—s, 10 or 20 years.
Your security is the City’s income, which exceeded £4,900,000 in 1956. Possessing
assets valued at £18,500,000, the City of Sydney levies rates on land with an,
unimproved capital value of £150,000,000. In addition, the Loan is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W. Your interest will be paid every six months, and
your principal will be repaid in full at maturity. You will also assist Sydney to
build more parking stations, banish traffic congestion and provide' much needed
amenities.
You can invest in the City of Sydney very easily. Call at any Commonwealtn
Trading Bank, ring your Stockbroker, or apply to the City Treasurer.
Let your Savings keep pace
with Sydney’s growth . . .
51% City of Sydney Loan
will help to build
V-
w
&
c
ic=r*
----- 5 54
MORE AMENITIES
MORE ROADS
MORE PARKING STATIONS
The Loan is underwritten by lan Potter & Co., and closes not later than
19th January, 1957.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
twtEW ZEALAND is taking
increasing interest in the
possibility of developing a
higher level of trade with
Australia.
A proposal that a trade-
delegation should be sent to the
Commonwealth in the near
future is at present under con-
sideration. The delegation,
which would have Government
approval, would include repre-
sentatives of timber, fish, manu-
facturing, blood-stock, produce
and travel interests.
For many years the balance of
trade between the two countries
has been strongly adverse to
N.Z. In 1955, for instance,
Maoriland bought goods worth
£3l million from Australia, but
sold to Australia goods worth
less than £7 million.
Maoriland is not seeking a
trade-war. “We would come off
worse,” said the Minister of
Industries and Commerce, Mr.
Halstead, recently. “We must
remember that 60 per cent, of
our imports from Australia are
essential, but none of our
exports to Australia is essential.”
In fact, it is‘not necessary to
seek a two-way balance in trade.
What is wanted is a higher
level of trade. One of the chief
obstacles to its development lies
in G.A.T.T., but there seems no
reason why N.Z. and Australia
should not take advantage of
escape-clauses, as other member-
nations have done.
Softwood Exports
The Bank of New South
Wales, in a recent review, stated
that the best prospects for
increased exports from N.Z. to
Australia appeared to lie in the
products of the Dominion’s
softwood forests.
That is undoubtedly true, but
the year 1956 brought a disap-
pointment in this department,
as production of radiata-pine,
more than trebled in the last 10
years, outstripped domestic and
Australian demand.
Australia was expected to
take more than 50 million feet,
but, because of reduced building
activity, only 26 million feet
were sold in the first 10 months
of the year, compared with 30
million feet in the corresponding
period of 1955.
N.Z. millers are hoping that
current high wool prices will
lead to a reversal this year of
the recent downward trend in
building and construction. They
could then look forward with
confidence to more orders from
the Australian timber trade.
Already N.Z. pine has captured
the Australian box - timber
market from North American
hemlock. But exporters see the
possibility of bigger orders from
a wide variety of timber-users in
Australia. '
Meantime some of the trade
lost on timber will be made up
on a new venture —deep-frozen
foods —which, it has been
estimated, may before long earn
N.Z. up to £1 million a year.
The first consignment of 200
tons of deep-frozen peas, worth
£60,000, left Napier about mid-
December. Future shipments
will include other vegetables,
fish and meat.
The Australian Trade Com-
missioner at Auckland, Mr.
B. G. Dawson, said that the
Australian Government had
issued import-licences for “a
very considerable quantity” of
N.Z. deep-frozen foods. “This
is the beginning of a long-term
trade which will continue to
increase,” he said. “It is not a
spot order.”
A representative of the export-
ing firm described the shipment
as the forerunner of a
tremendous trade which will
include Singapore and the Far
East as well as Australia. “We
fully expect the first year’s trade
to exceed £300,000,” he said.
A warning about the limita-
tions of the British market for
Maoriland’s exports of meat,
butter and cheese was given by
Mr. lan Gray before he returned
to England after filling the post
of United Kingdom Trade
Commissioner in N.Z. for two
years.
If N.Z. continued steadily to
increase food exports to Britain
it was almost certain to mean
that there would be a reduction
in the unit price, he said.
The United Kingdom’s
economy was undergoing very
drastic shifts of emphasis in an
effort to achieve a desirable
balanee. At such a time demand
was likely to be fairly steady. If
there were going to be a dramatic
increase in the volume of N.Z.’s
exports, the Dominion would
have to find other markets.
Seventeen Years After!
Maoriland’s building-controls,
introduced 17 years ago in the
form of war-time emergency
regulations to conserve materials
and manpower, ended in
December —not before time.
N.Z. was the last democratic
country to retain these controls.
The building industry, which
has suffered a severe setback in
the last 12 months as a result of
the credit squeeze, was becoming
impatient, contending that other
controls, particularly those exer-
cised by the Capital Issues
Committee, were quite enough
to prevent any wasteful use of
labor or materials.
The business community was
also becoming restive under the
almost complete prohibition of
new commercial building. Exist-
ing accommodation has been
stretched to the utmost for years.
“Commerce and industry can
now look forward to making
up leeway,” said the president
of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce when the ending of
the controls was announced.
London Loans
N.Z. should not be too pessi-
mistic about its prospects of
raising a loan on the London
market, according to Mr. E. J.
Bunbury, a former governor of
the Bank of England, who
recently visited the Dominion.
As chairman t of the Agricul-
tural Mortgage Corporation,
Ltd., which finances English
farmers in their long-term
development plans, Mr. Bun-
bury borrows at least £5 million
a year.
He said there was a great
demand for sterling throughout
the British Commonwealth—
and there was not enough to
satisfy all requirements. “Britain
cannot neglect India and Africa,
because Russia would step in
smartly. So New Zealand and
Australia have to be patient.
But they will get their share,”
he said.
Oil Exploration
By 1958 one of the larger oil
companies now exploring in the
North Island of New Zealand
will have determined likely sites
and started drilling.
The three major oil-explorers
in the field are the Shell Com-
pany, British Petroleum and
Todd Brothers. On the west
coast of the North Island all
three companies are linked in
the Shell-D’Arcy-Todd organisa-
tion.
The largest concession is on
the east coast of the North
Island, where B.P. is working
in association with Todd
Brothers over an area of 12,586
square miles. Extensive seepage
and showings of gas and oil have
been reported in this area.
The largest known seepage,
however, has occurred in the
west-coast area, and gravity-
meter work carried out by
Geological Survey has disclosed
some interesting new possi-
bilities.
Farm Income
Maoriland’s gross farming
income for the 1955-56 produc-
tion season was £2BO million,
according to preliminary esti-
mates. This is a decrease of
£4.1 million, or nearly H per
cent, from the 1954-55 total.
The figure for the agricultural
group is £32.4 million, an
increase of £1 million or 3 per
cent.; for the pastoral group,
£155.3 million, a decrease of
£6 million or 4 per cent.; for
the dairying, poultry and bees
group, £93.1 million, an increase
of £1.6 million or nearly 2 per
cent.
The index of volume of pro-
duction for all groups, on base
1938-39, 100, rose to 141 from
136 the previous year. Both
pastoral and dairying groups
showed considerable volume
increases, but, owing to price
decreases, there were not
proportionate value movements.


The WILD CAT COLUMN
Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.
TN 1936 Australian Motorists Petrol Co.,
Ltd., set-out, with a paid capital of
1200,000, to break into the tight petrol-
selling business in N.S.W. Twenty-one
years later, as Ampol Petroleum, Ltd.,
the co. can, with confidence, plan to issue
something like 12,000,000 ss. shares at a
time when such giants as B.H.P. and
LC.LA.NiZ. and the old-established
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. are also in
the market for substantial helpings of new
capital.
Shareholders had to wait until 1941
tor a div., and during the war the distribu-
tion remained modest. Making pheno-
menal progress in the last five years,
Ampol’s paid capital will be a little short
of £lO million when the new-issue shares
are fully-paid in Oct., 1958, compared
with £3,744,850 in Sept., 1955. A 12*
p.c. ord. div. has been paid since 1954.
A one-for-four bonus-issue in Oct.,
’55, was followed by a one-for-three par
issue. Another bonus-issue (one-for-
five), again from share-premiums,
gathered mostly in 1951, was completed
early in the current term, and recipients
will be entitled to participate in the one-
for-two par issue next month.
Growing at an even faster rate than
its capital, the co. raised £3,000,000 in
less than two years by the issue of 6 p.c.
notes (with an option to take-up scrip
at a 10s. premium) and 7 p.c. notes par-
ticipating to 9 p.c. In addition, a
£ 1,000,000 loan was negotiated last term.
The scrip has a speculative tinge, the
70 p.c.-owned subsidiary, Ampol Explora-
tion, Ltd., having a 20 p.c. interest in West
Australian Petroleum Pty., the remaining
80 p.c. being held by the California
Texas Corp. Wapet’s experiences at
Exmouth Gulf and Rough Range (W.A.)
have helped to create a strong share-
market interest in both Ampol Explora-
tion and Ampol shares.
Although the co. derives most of its
income by importing and distributing
petroleum products, a “considerable”
portion of earnings is “directly traceable
to the successful operation of the co-
owned and chartered fleet of tankers.”
An order has been placed for a second
tanker, of 25,000 tons d.-w., to cost an
estimated £2 million.
Extensions to the chain of service-
stations, a new seaboard terminal at Port-
land (Vic.), large building-projects in
several States, and a £96,492 progress-
payment on the new tanker were respon-
sible for £3,451,710 of the net £4,665,682
increase in fixed assets last term, revalua-
tion accounting for £1,213,972:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital ..£3,735,600 £3,744,850 £5,608.038
Reserves.. .. 2,713,305 2,812,541 4,088,143
Loans .. .. 392,304 392,304 1,003,950
.. .. 1,500,000 2,886,500
Creditors* .. 2,395,561 4,651,909 5,350,256
Tax-provision .. 326,000 298,000 542,684
Final divs. .. 166,731 172,750 233,100
„ , , £9,729,501 £13,572,354 £19,712,671
Freeholds, etc.f 2,608,384 )
Plant, etc. .. 3,845,922 j £,514,037 13,1/9,719
Shares Ampol Ex-
ploration .. 135,779 860,478 1,417 940
Stocks .. .. 1,298,429 1,690,532 1,874,762
Debtors, cash, etc. 1,509,574 2,175,380 2,861,366
Intangibles .. 331,413 331,927 378,884
£9,729,501 £13,572,354 £19,712,671
* Includes overdraft, staff fund, etc. f Includes
storage terminals.
Current liabilities (including provisions
lor dividends, tax, etc.) exceeded current
assets by £1,186,107 at September 30
last, but the new share-issue should
improve the group’s liquid position as
well as the shareholders’ equity in the
co. Shareholders’ funds at the end of the
term amounted to 49.1 p.c. of the balance-
sheet totals.
Ampol Exploration accounts are not
included in the consolidated figures, the
shareholding shown in the balance-sheet
representing the parent’s indirect contri-
bution to the W.A. oil-prospecting
venture, which at the end of December had
absorbed approximately £l3 million.
The market for petroleum products is
steadily- increasing with the growing
number of motor-vehicles on Australian
roads, and the group turnover,
£7,995,329 five years ago, reached
£18,546,299 last term, a 21.7 p.c. im-
provement during the 12 months. Sales
of motor-spirit (volume) increased by
13.5 p.c., compared with a 7.2 p.c.
increase in total consumption. There was
more profit, too, in the higher sales, and
net earnings jumped by 33 p.c. (£193,872)
to £779,820, after setting aside £478,174
(up £242,980) for taxation and £520,456
(up £104,661) for depreciation:
Ajipol and Subsidiaries.
„ , r Dividends Nominal
Sept., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1952 .. 304,286 6 10 195,629 1,127,764
Issue exes., etc., written off,
£53,000 1,074,764
1953 ..366,980 6 10 128.801 1,203,565
Surplus on charter claims, £127,279 1,330,844
Share premiums, £1,400,000 .. 2,730,844
19.>4 .. 328,638 6 12,} 346,177 2,713,305
Note issue exes, w/off, £37,500 .. 2,676,805
Goodwill written-off, £23,700 .. 2,652,105
1950 .. 585,948 6 124 405,512 2,832,541
To staff fund, £20,000 .. .. 2,812,541
Note-issue expenses, £37,500 . . 2,775,041
Reserves capitalised, £745,244 . . 2,029,797
Share-premiums, £440,756 . . 2,470,553
To capital reserve, £150,000 .. 2,620,553
Revaluation fixed assets, £1,213,972 3,834,525
195 G .. 779,820 6 12} 526,202 4,088,143
* Subject to intangibles, £378,884 at 30/9/’56.
The ord. div. was unchanged at 12} p.c.,
earnings covering the pref. div. and 17
p.c. on average ord. capital, compared
with 19.1 p.c. on average ord. capital in
1955, and 11.7, 16.6 and 16.7 p.c. back
to 1952.
The contribs. and bonus scrip partici-
pate in the next interim div., and will be
joined by the new issue in the final div.
The co. expects to maintain the 12} p.c.
distribution, and consequently to improve
its net earnings, “provided there is no
deterioration in profit-margins.” There
are indications that the retail price of
petrol will rise in the current year, while
earnings from the co.’s tankers should
improve as the world tanker shortage
forces-up freights.
Based on sales at 125., “rights” to the
new issue have a theoretical value of
4s. Bd., subject to brokerage and div.
differences. At an 9s. Bd., the
f.-p. ss. ords. would return 6.4 p.c. from
a 12} p.c. div. The contribs., paid to
45., participate in the new issue, and last
sold at 10s. 3d. The note-options bring
2s.
Yarra Falls, Ltd.
npHE Australian woollen-textile pro-
ducer has been harassed over the
past four or five years by fluctuating
wool prices, competition from synthetic
fibres and, between spasms of import-
licensing, competition from imported
products. Other problems of the industry
have been common to most manufac-
turers ; increasing local competition,
rising expenses and the high cost of plant-
replacement. The current term, however,
promises to be a little less difficult; wool
prices, although higher, appear to be
more stable, imports have been reduced
to a minimum, and there has been some
improvement in demand.
The Yarra Falls organisation is one of
the two largest of Australia’s woollen
and worsted yarn-spinners and -weavers,
and its products are highly regarded In
the trade. Mills are established at Abbots-
ford and Dandenong (Vic.), and at
Marrickville (Sydney), where a large plant
is operated by a subsidiary, Globe
Worsted Mills. Another subsidiary,
By fas Pty., turns out silk piecegoods, etc.
The paid capital of the parent co. was
doubled in 1950 by a par issue (the only
change since 1939) and now stands at
£2,000,000 in £1 ords.
Turnover for the term completed on
June 30 dropped by £225,659 to
£4,169,205, reflecting the overall fall in
demand for wool-yarn and woven piece-
goods and the consequent reluctance of
wholesalers to carry large stocks. There
was a corresponding decrease in raw-
material costs; but, although the
Dandenong mill was working below
capacity, manufacturing expenses were
much the same, while administrative costs
took a larger share of the reduced gross
profit. Income from investments was
£5157 better at £15,799, but after pro-
viding £110,875 (up £16,475) for taxation,
£59,379 (up £9159) for depreciation and
£13,340 (up £3291) for plant-replacement,
net profit was £25,534 lower at £160,686:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.*
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.f
£ £ £ £
1951.. 313,251 12} p.c. = 200,000 113,251 1,007,951
To staff fund, £20,000 . . . . 987,951
Profit sale assets, £ll5B .. .. 989,109
Tax arrears, £B5O .. .. .. 988,259
1962.. 73,012 8 p.c. - 160,000 - 901,271
Profit sale assets, £2129 .. .. 903,400
Tax overprovided, £66,000 . . .. 968,400
1953.. 240,891 8 p.c. = 160,000 80,891 1,049,291
Loss sale assets, etc., £986 .. .. 1,048,305
From tax reserve, £61,872 .. .. 1,110,177
1954. . 333,304 10 p.c. = 200,000 133,304 1,243,481
Profit sale assets, £2663 .. .. 1,246,144
1955. . 186,220 9 p.c. = 180,000 6,220 1,252,364
To long-service leave, £9388 .. .. 1,243,026
Profit sale assets, etc., £1783 .. 1,244,809
Tax underprovided, £253 .. ..1,244,556
1956.. 160,686 8 p.c. rr 160,000 686 1,245,242
* After eliminating outside interests.
•{•Excludes replacement reserve, now £519,270.
The dividend, reduced from 9 p.c. to
8 p.c., took most of the earnings, the
£160,686 equalling only a shade over
8 p.c. on the capital, compared with 9.3,
16.6, 12, 3.6 and 19.6 p.c. back to 1951.
The overdraft was reduced by £356,832
over the term, and alternative finance
obtained in the form of a £250,000 loan
from the National Mutual Life Associa-
tion. Stocks (“at cost or under”) fell by
£146,987, the balance-sheet.figures moving
in conformity with credit-restrictions and
the quieter trading tempo of the term:
Yarra Falls and Subsidiaries.
1964. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Outside interests.. 4,311 4,303 4,310
Reserves .. . . 1,243,481 1,248,026 1,245,242
Replacement res... .495,922 505,952 519,270
Mortgage .. . . 243,750
Overdraft .. .. 786,859 908,139 561,307
Sundry creditorsf 524,383 446,290 556,511
Staff funds .. 86,547 83,864 79,840
Final div 100,000 80,000 80,000
£5,241,503 £5,270,574 £5,280,230
Freeholds ~ .. 538,856 575,795 593,008
Plant, etc. .. 843,756 970,512 1,006,050
Stocks .. .. 2,964,785 2,859,475 2,712,488
Debtors .. .. 728,105 652,812 723,012
Shares .. .. 55,747 79,747 113,965
Govt, bonds, etc.. . 110,255 132,733 131,707
£5,241,503 £5,270,574 £6,280,230
t Including tax provision, etc.
In March, 1955, the co. bought at par
100,000 ss. ords. in John Brown
Industries, Ltd. (paid capital, £225,000),
and during last term £50,000 was
advanced to this Yarra Falls client to
assist in financing a new mill at Bendigo
(Vic.).
Still doubtful of the immediate pros-
pects, the market prices Yarra Falls scrip
at 245. 6d. (325. a year ago), to return 6.5
p.c. from an 8 p.c. div. The f.-p. £1 shares
have a net tangible cover, including the
plant-replacement reserve, of 375. Bd.
Waugh and Josephson, Ltd.
'TPHE 1955-56 term was only slightly less
-*• profitable for Waugh and Josephson,
Ltd., but the investment market is taking
seriously the caution delivered by the
co.’s chairman at the annual meeting con-
cerning the current term. Over the first
quarter of the year sales were badly hit
by the State’s disastrous floods, and there
is a likelihood that activities of the Deere
agency will be affected by future import-
restrictions on agricultural machinery
from dollar sources. On the administra-
tion side, the chairman stated, costs con-
tinue to make-off with a bigger propor-
tion of earnings.
The effect has been that on the Sydney
’Change in recent weeks the £1 ordinary
shares fell quite sharply from 60s.
to 525., the lowest sale recorded since
1954.
Waugh and Josephson has been hand-
ling Caterpillar tractors and earthmoving-
equipment for the last 22 years. In
1946 it was decided to vacate the old
manufacturing fields and concentrate on
distributing and servicing the products of
the Caterpillar Co. and its associates.
Three years later the agency-rights were
acquired for wheel-tractors and farm-
machinery of Deere and Co. Then in
1953 the co. sold its Queensland business
to Hastings Deering (Queensland) Pty.,
Ltd., to concentrate on developing activi-
ties in N.S.W.
As from July 1 last the co. became dis-
tributors in this State for British David
Brown agricultural wheel-tractors and
implements.
Public interest in the 76-year-old busi-
ness dates only from 1949, when 75,000
£1 ords. were put out at ss. premium.
Since then divs. have averaged a shade
over 14 p.c. a year, a further £120,000 of
ordinary capital was offered to share-
holders at 50 p.c. premium in 1951, and
in two issues in 1951 and 1954 a total of
£60,000 of ord. scrip was handed out as
a gift.
Last term, after providing £3892 extra
depreciation (£25,731), profit edged down
£12,467 to £194,942, equal to 38.2 p.c. on
paid capital (as against 40.6 p.c. in 1955),
or 12 p.c. if the calculation is based on
the total of shareholders’ funds. An un-
changed 17£ p.c. dividend was paid and
reserves heaped £105,692 higher, to
£1,118,457:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividends ~ serves, serves.
£L £ £ £
1949.. 88,600 10 p.c. = 23,125 65,475 158,012
Unexplained addition, £495 .. .. 168,607
1950. .126,265 10 p.c. = 30,000 96,265 253,772
Revaluation assets, £44,681 .. .. 298,453
Share premiums, £60,000 .. .. 358,453
Unexplained addition, £24,013 .. 382,466
Reserve capitalised, £60,000 .. .. 322,466
1951. .156,975 121 p.c. = 43,125 113,800 436,316
Unexplained addition, £10,977 .. 447,293
1952. .188,368 121 p.c. = 60,000 128,368 575,661
Parent and Subsidiaries.
Less on consolidation, £36 .. .. 575,625
Profit sale assets, etc., £86,992 .. 662,617
1953. .236,927 15 p.c. = 72,000 164,927 827,544
Reserves capitalised, £30,000 ~ 797,544
To special provision, £lO,OOO .. 787,544
Unexplained addition, £6754 .. 794,298
1954.. 189,558 171 p.c. = 89,250 100,308 894,606
1955. .207,409 171 „ „ 89,250 118,159 1,012,765
1956. .194,942 171 „ „ 89,250 105,692 1,118,457
Overall turnover was maintained despite
a falling-off in sales towards the end of
the year, but costs and taxation made
bigger infoads into earnings. The actual
provision for taxation was not disclosed.
A new branch was opened at Inverell
during the year, making the fifth to be
established in N.S.W. country centres.
The others are at Gunnedah, Parkes,
Wagga and South Grafton. Two more
are planned for Cooma, the headquarters
of the Snowy Mountains Authority, and
Wauchope on the/N.S.W. North Coast.
At Alexandria (Sydney) a new assembly-
building will shortly be erected, to be
followed by a modem paint-shop which
will eliminate a bottleneck in the delivery
of new equipment. Just lately the estab-
lishment of an Australian subsidiary of
the Caterpillar organisation has been
responsible for a great improvement in
the supply of spare-parts.
During the year £106,221 was spent
on fixed assets, and £204,370 added to
stocks and £321,959 to book-debts,
financed partly on overdraft (up £365,798)
and partly from the co.’s holding of cash
and the profits of the year:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
„ 1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £510.000 £510,000 £510,000
Reserves .. .. 894,606 1,012,766 1,118,457
Long-term liability 40,000 40,000 40,000
Overdraft.. .. _ 36,019 401.817
Creditors, etc. . . 782,170 280,998 829,098
Special provision.. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Tax provision .. 120,699 133,238 184,661
Final div. .. 57,375 57,375 57,375
£2,414,850 £2,080,395 £2,051,408
Freehold .. .. 188,113 203,414 281,278
F*»nt ~ .. 72,154 105,644 133,901
Stock, etc. .. 1,500,239 1,199,673 1,404,048
Debtors .. .. 352,305 491,570 813,529
Cash, bonds .. 802,039 80,194 18,657
£2,414,850 £2,080,395 £2,651,408
As well as the effects of the wet weather
in N.S.W. and Victoria, the earthmoving-
and construction-equipment industry is
faced this term with a reduction in spend-
ing by public authorities.
At 535. the co.’s £1 shares return 6.5
p.c. from a div. Net tangible asset
backing on June 30 was 635. lid. a share.
Jantzen (Australia), Ltd.
TANTZEN’S plans to improve on last
J term’s record turnover were frustrated
by unseasonable weather, steady supplies
of competing imported goods and tighten-
ing market conditions. With recently-
acquired plant working at well below
capacity and lower wool-prices depreciat-
ing stock (valued at lower of cost or
market), profit for the year (to March,
1956) was almost halved.
The sharemarket interest in the com-
pany is confined to the 5 p.c. and 9 p.c.
pref. shares, which together comprise
£135,000 of the paid capital, the balance,
of 146,666 £1 ords., being held mainly
by the American parent. Burns, Philp and
Co. are also ordinary shareholders.
Turnover at £1,401,444 (down
£108,739) is the second-highest on record,
but higher expenses and wages kept net
profit down to £22,131, a fall of £21,215,
after providing £25,632 (up £3750) for
depreciation and £15,500 (down £16,500)
for tax. Dividends, including an
unchanged 9 p.c. on the ords., required all
but £782 of the net earnings:
, Dividends
Ist 2nd Re-
Meh. Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total. serves.
31. £ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1952 .. 45,261 9 5 9 = 14,750 157,131
1953 . . 20,308 9 5 9 = 14,760 162,689
1954 ..55,340 9 5 9 = 16,400 201,629
1955 . . 43,346 9 5 9 = 21,350 223,025
Special depreciation provision, £5OOO 218,625
1956 .. 22,131 9 5 9 = 21,349 219,407
The pref. divs. of £Bl5O were well
covered, and the profit remaining after
this payment was equal to 9.5 p.c. of
ordinary capital. Previously charged
against profit, this term’s unchanged
£5OOO contribution to the “special”
depreciation-replacement fund has, of
necessity, come from reserves.
Debtors, £86,622 lower at £265,107,
reflect the reduced turnover; stocks,
valued at £489,644, are down by almost
£112,000. At the same time a substantial
reduction has been made in liabilities,
creditors and bank-overdraft combined
being £174,691 lower at £327,277; work-
ing-capital has improved by £3923 to
£373,034. Additions to fixed assets
amount to £20,446, but, after deprecia-
tion, net figures are £10,641 lower at
£190,539:
Paid capital—' X 1954. 1955. 1956.
Ist Pref. .. £35,009 £36,000 £ 35,000
2nd Pref. .. 100,000 100,000 100,000
Ord. . . . . 146.666 146,666 146,666
Reserves .. .. 201,629 223,625 219,407
Mortgage .. .. 77,500 76,000 72,500
Overdraft . . .. 2,792 315,573 194,410
Creditors, etc. . . 148,480 186,495 132,967
Tax provision .. 62,698 70,303 43,626
Dividends .. .. 10,079 15,029 15,028
£774,844 £1,167,691 £969,604
Fixed assets .. 148,156 201,180 190,539
Stock . . . . 373,093 601,447 489,644
Debtors .. .. 240,021 351,729 265,107
Cash, etc 2,974 3,335 4,314
Intangibles .. 10,000 10,000 10,000
£774,844 £1,167,691 £959,604
The level of trading in the current year
suggests an improved profit, and the
recent cut in imports will enable more
economic use of plant installed to pro-
duce goods of a type usually imported.
The 9 p.c. prefs. are rarely seen on
the market, but the 5 p.c. second prefs.
have sold at 14s. in recent months to
return 7.1 p.c. The ordinary shares are
not listed. Net tangible assets provide
a cover of £l4 os. 7d. on the first prefs.
and £4 1 Is, 3d. on the 5 p.c.


wM
iv :
i- 9
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using
“ABBOT” water filters.
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-
water systems and household re-
quirements. Easy to instal. Inex-
pensive to operate and will l ast
a lifetime. Large quantities in use
throughout Australasia. Other types
for different conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Agents and manufacturers of “Curvilinear’'
Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic Machines and
Ellison Switch Gear.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Anvs. ■
CVAKD
Ca&h/
mMUvcv J
protecta
stml- fejf
ia *'ssraSit?s‘u hr
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing AgeaU—~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE .
PERTH •
W. C* Penfold * Co. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros. Pty. m.
Vardan Price Ltd.
Docket Book Co. lAust.)
LTFE ASSURANCE
'e'lvice
FOR
m
IYEARS
m
m
s
L
m
Keeping old
friends; making new
since
1895.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPQIHAHUFE
ASSURANCE CO.LTD.
The Metropolitan Building, Hunter & Bligh Streets, Sydney.
If any “Bulletin” illustration takes your fancy write to the
Manager, who will quote you a price for the original*
Faith in the
Future
It gave me a thrill of pride to read that one
of the nine turbo-propelled Viscount aircraft to
be put into operation this year by K.L.M., the Royal
Dutch Airlines, is to be named in honour ot my
old companion in the Flying Corps, the late Sir
Charles Kingsford Smith.
The craft will commemorate men eminent in
the progress of aviation down the years, the
American Wright Brothers who made the first
powered flight in 1903; Bleriot, the Frenchman who
first flew the English Channel; a Briton (Sir Sexton
Brancker), a Belgian, a German and a Dane.
Leonardo da Vinci is included the Italian
whose many-flowered genius first grasped the
principles of aerodynamics. In tribute to the Greek
mind, which anticipated the possibility of human
flight long centuries before it came, one ot the
aircraft will be named for the Greek mythological
god, Daidalos.
Kingsford Smith’s name is one in a panel of
Australians made famous in international flying.
In 1929 the year in which “Smithy” led the pioneer
crossing from Oakland (California) to his native
Brisbane, Bert Hinkler established the first solo
flight from England to Australia.
Nine years earlier Sir Ross and Sir Keith
Smith, in their original England-Australia flight,
had laid low the barriers of distance between this
country and Europe. They all made history.
The Australia that produced the Smith
Brothers’ courageous effort 37 years ago was a
nation of only five and a quarter million people.
When Kingsford Smith led the leap across the
Pacific our total numbers were little more than
six million; about two-thirds of our population
today.
As a breed, we can draw from this a deep
draught of inspiration and hope for the Future.
And in doing so, let us salute the Dutch themselves
a race of good fliers—for putting a great Australian
among their chosen of the air’s immortals.
182
// //as?^ 5 tyee+iy
Consolidated Metal Products
THIS concern reclaims, smelts
and refines scrap-lead and
makes lead-oxides and all the
component parts and equipment
from which storage-batteries are
assembled. The actual manufac-
ture and distribution of the
finished batteries are left to
others, which means that the
co. is able to sidestep the market-
ing problem of getting, in
competition with other makers,
the completed article into the
hands of consumers.
A holding co., Consolidated
Metal, was registered in N.S.W.
in November, 1950, and fisted
on ’Change in the following July,
when paid capital stood at
£350,000, all in fully-paid 10s.
shares. The subsidiaries, for
which it also provides manage-
ment, research and various other
services, are:
C. Boring Pty., Ltd., N.S.W.;
Lead Refineries Ply., Ltd. (Vic.),
lead merchants, smelters and re-
finers; Phoenix Chemical Co. Pty.,
Ltd. (N.S.W.); Lead Products Pty.,
Ltd. (Vic.), manufacturing lead-
oxides for storage-battery plate-
manufacturers and general industrial
uses; Battery Equipment Supply Co.
Pty., Ltd. (N.S.W.); Battery Equip-
ment Supply Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd.;
Battery Equipment Supply Co.
(Q’land) Pty., Ltd., manufacturing
battery-parts and equipment.
The biggest market is the local
one in Australia, but the co. also
exports its products to New
Zealand, South Africa and places
north of Australia.
Mainly by using more efficient
methods to turn out a greater
volume of goods, it has been
able to avoid passing most of
the recent increases in
production-costs on to customers
in higher prices and at the same
time show a very satisfactory
return on its share-capital:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
* Re-
June Profit. t —Dividends——-, serves.t
30 £ £ £
Written-off intangibles, £5386 9,287
1951.. 31,146 8 p.c. = 11,467* 28,966
Capital profit, £lO,OBO . • 39,046
Written-off dies, etc., £l5BO 37,466
Written-off intangibles, £21,409 16,057
1952.. 50,093 8 p.c. = 28,000 38,150
Share premiums res. subsidiary
capitalised, £2250 .. .• 35,900
Written-off intangibles, £12,781 23,169
1953.. 65,122 9 p.c. = 31,500 56,<91
Surplus sale shares, £15,612 .. 72,408
From contingency provision,
£2OOO .. •• •• 74,403
Written-off intangibles, £37,250 37,153
1954. . 108,250 10 p.c. = 35,000 110,403
Profit sale shares, £397 • • 110,800
1955. .117,438 lljp.c.= 40,938 187,300
Profit sale assets, £5063 .. 1?2,863
1956. .117,500 12lp'.c.= 50,000 259,8b3
* For six months only, t Subject to In-
tangibles, £69,291, 30/6/’66.
To indicate the extent of the
extra effort this policy called for
in 1956, however, the co.
provided 29 p.c. more goods and
services (invoiced at over
£2,050,000) for a net profit, after
considerably bigger provisions
for depreciation (£26,632, up
£9526) and taxation (£73,502, up
£14,657), of £117,500, barely
more than was earned in 1955.
On capital lifted £50,000 to
£400,000 by a one-for-seven
issue at par in 1955 the £117,500
was 29.4 p.c., as against 32.3,
30.9, 18.6 and 14.3 p.c. back to
1952.
Shareholders received an extra
ix p.c. in the final dividend,
making 12* p.c. for the year.
It looks pretty secure, though the
profit rate on sales is less. Turn-
over in the current term is
ahead of last year.
Finance for most of the year’s
expenditure on freeholds (up
£58,282), plant (up £10,394) and
stock (up £158,115) came from
within the business itself: from
profits and the co.’s holding of
cash. Trade-creditors were
owed an extra £51,357, and the
bank a mere £7668:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
] 954. 1955. 1906.
£ £ £
Paid capital .. 350,000 400,000 400,000
Reserves .. 110,403 187,300 259,863
Creditors' V. 933)04 193,000
Tax provision.. 72,229 59,615 74,282
Final div. .. 17,500 23,438 25,000
643,136 811,996 959,813
Freehold .. 115,647 127,070 185,352
Plant, machinery, „. q
pff 105,007 114,455 124,849
Shares " .. 65,540 62,264 60,659
stock :: .: 149,631252,140 410,255
Debtors, etc... 87,047 109,407
Cash .. 50,973 83,706
Intangibles .. 69,291 69,291 69,291
643,136 811,996 959,813
During the year a bulk-store was
opened in Brisbane, where it is
planned eventually to set-up
manufacturing operations. In
Victoria all activities have been
now centralised at Sunshine
(Melbourne), where the co.’s
lead-smelting, oxide-manufacture
and battery-component produc-
tion are carried out, side by side,
in separate modern factories.
Further improvements were also
made to the three factories in
Sydney.
At 19s. the 10s. shares return
a satisfactory 6.6 p.c. on a
\2\ p.c. div. basis, with prospects.
Net tangible cover on conserva-
tive book-values is 14s. 9d.
North Aust. Uranium Corp.
Retaining its claims in the
South Alligator Valley for
later exploitation, N.A.U.C. is
now concentrating on the
exploration of the Milestone
area (N.T.), south of the Gulf
of Carpentaria and close to the
Queensland border.
The low-grade uranium ore in
the Alligator River region
provided insufficient reserves to
justify the erection of a
treatment-plant, and, unless
richer deposits are located, con-
sideration will be given to
mining the ore at a later date
and shipping it to Rum Jungle
for sale. The major part of the
former Northern Territory
Government Reserve was
acquired, jointly with United
Uranium, N.L., last term, but
as yet no significant results have
been obtained from prospecting
the area. (United Uranium is
the operating co. for Northern
Uranium Development, N.L.,
and Uranium Mines, N.L.)
The Milestone authority to
prospect covers 2000 square
miles, and work on an area of
approximately 100 square miles
has produced encouraging results.
However, little detailed informa-
tion has been released, and the
co.’s efforts have been directed
to a comprehensive exploration
of the district rather than an
individual examination of the
more than 15 occurrences of
uranium minerals already
located.
Aiming to establish sufficient
ore-reserves to support a long-
term mining project, the co.
estimates that it may need up
to another year to complete the
present exploration and testing
programmes. High-grade pitch-
blende already uncovered has
been retained until the future of
the field has been determined,
as, in the opinion of the board,
its value to the co. if a treatment-
plant is erected will greatly
exceed the immediate benefit
arising from its sale.
The association with the big
American Atlas Corp. (which in
1955 invested £562,218 for a
50 p.c. shareholding in
N.A.U.C.) has given the co.
sufficient funds (and technical
assistance) to enable a careful
appraisal of its prospecting data
before meeting the capital-outlay
required for the erection of a
treatment mill. On June 30,
1956, current assets (mainly
cash) amounted to £579,020
while liabilities totalled only
£lO7l.
Bearing in mind the “already
highly rewarding results
obtained,” the directors are
“optimistic” about the prospects
of “profitable returns” eventu-
ating “relatively soon.” No doubt
the directors’ confidence is well-
founded, but, as yet, share-
holders and the investing public,
generally have been given little
information as to the quantity
or grade of the ore already
located. It would seem rather
unfortunate if another year is
to pass before this information
is available.
The f-p. ss. shares (which
brought 50s. 3d. in the 1954
“uranium boom”) last sold at
6s. sd.
Renison Associated Tin
BACK, on a profit winning
basis after a lapse of two
years, Renison Associated Tin
Mines (North Dundas, Tas.),
claimed a net profit of £8283 for
the year ended June 30 last,
following losses of £7790 and
£3127 in 1955 and 1954
respectively. Although the mill
was not working to full capacity,
a higher throughput reduced
treatment costs per ton, and only
the inclusion of expanded
development work prevented a
better showing.
A fall in tin prices caused
much of the earlier trouble, but
last term’s production was
stepped-up to take advantage of
available mill-capacity, with the
following results:
1955. 1956.
Crudes, mined and
treated, tons .. 7,282 9,153
Average grade, p.c. Sn. 0.8 u - a '
Tin concentrates re-
covered, tons .. 63.12
Amount realised (net) £30,244 £52,666
Net loss .. •• £7,790
nrofit . . . .
Treatment costs per ton £4/4/2 £3/9/10
Ore-reserves, although increased
by development work last year,
are only sufficient for about two
years’ work; but exploration in
the current term has shown
encouraging results and some
improvement in the reserve
position can be expected.
At the close of the term
current assets at £18,048 exceeded
liabilities by £8309.
Rio Australian Explorations
Pty. (offshoot of the big Rio
Tinto group), under an agree-
ment with Renison, is exploring
the co.’s property and leases with
the possibility of large-scale
operations if adequate ore-
bodies can be located.
The current term promises to
see an improvement in earnings,
if metal prices, etc., continue
favorable, and, with production
continuing to increase, a 3d.
interim div. (the first div. for
four years) has just been paid.
There are 451,015 ss. shares
paid to 45., last sales bringing
ss. 3d. to return 9.5 p.c. from a
12| p.c. distribution.


Women’s Letter
MELBOURNE
During the holidays this Letter took
a trip to Sydney via the Princes Highway
—a route that is a sheer delight, with
wonderful ocean views along the N.S.W.
South Coast from Eden almost to the
capita], with fishing-villages and glorious
beaches.
A short holiday with Air-Vice-Marshal
and Mrs. Allan Walters, at their home
adjoining the R.A.A.F. Home Command
Station at Lapstone, was delightful, and
gave an opportunity of seeing one of
the most magnificent of panoramic
views. At night from the balcony
it Was fairyland,, when countless
twinkling lights were seen and with the
Nepean River gleaming silver as it
flowed through Emu Plains.
Thence up to the Blue Mountains
(Lapstone is in the foothills) to enjoy the
many marvellous vistas that region has
to offer. And so down to the Sydney
harborside suburb of Vaucluse, and Mrs.
Humbert Pugliese’s lovely home, right
on the water. It was a novel experience
to walk just to the edge of the lawn and
then slip into the harbor to swim. Dr.
and Mrs. W. McDermott and their
daughter Patricia were also visitors, and
at a dinner-party given by Mrs. Pugliese
there were also Mrs. S. K. Wong, of
Singapore, and her daughter Mrs. William
Chen.
Mrs. Wong, who is an American, is
no stranger to Melbourne ; during the
war she and her family lived there. Pier
social-welfare work won her an honorary
M.B.E. Mrs. Chen (as Betty Wong)
graduated from Melbourne University as
Bachelor of Commerce, and after gradua-
tion returned to Singapore, where she met
her husband, who is an architect. They
have two children, Billy and Beverley:
☆ ☆ ☆
Back home, to find waiting many
Christmas-cards. One of the most charm-
ing was that from Sir Dallas and Lady
Brooks. A simple white card bearing
the vice-regal crest, it opened to reveal
a homely family-picture of the Governor
and his lady, their son-in-law and
daughter (Lieut. - Commander Robin
Byrne and Mrs. Byrne) and their two
children Christopher and Jennifer.
From overseas came a card from Sir
Lewis Casson and Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike: a photo of the famous pair sitting
together in a garden. The card from
the Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress
(Cr. Sir Frank Selleck and Lady Selleck)
featured a colored picture of the Olympic
decorations at the Lord Mayor’s ball last
year. Sir Arthur and Lady Warner, Mr.
and Mrs. Gordon Coulter and Mrs.
Dorothy Gitsham chose the exterior of
their homes to decorate their cards. Lady
Disney chose a beautiful picture of
leading dancers in the ballet “Giselle.”
☆ ☆ ☆
The St. Kilda Synagogue was the set-
ting for the marriage of Suzanne, eldest
daughter of M. and Madame Szwieca, of
Kew (formerly of Paris), and Leon, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. Maurice Ress, of
the Oriental Hotel, Collins-street. A
feature of the bride’s lovely Jean Desses
gown was the back bow-knots interlaced
with orange-blossom. Her long tulle veil
was caught with the same flower, and she
carried stephanotis. The bride’s sisters
Simone and Monique, the bridegroom’s
cousin Beverley Smith and the bride’s
cousin Annette Kraviec were bridesmaids.
Simone’s and Monique’s Paris frocks were
of pearl-pink figured pure-silk, while
Beverley and Annette wore pale-pink
organdie patterned in a white raindrop-
design and made over shell-pink taffeta.
Each of the four bridesmaids wore two
gardenias over one ear, with the green
leaves of the gardenias forming Alice-
bands across the head. They carried
posies of gardenias. Best man was Jack
Gray (W.A.) and groomsmen were
Maurice Green (Sydney), Martin Rettig
and the bride’s brother, George Szwieca.
For the reception, which took the form
of dinner at the Oriental Hotel, Madame
Szwieca chose an ensemble of navy
Ottoman-silk with shell-pink accessories.
Mrs. Ress chose a pearl-grey taffeta
Princess-line frock swathed under the
bust with pale-pink satin ribbon which
fell to the hem of the skirt in sash-ends ;
her small hat was in soft blue-grey
tonings. After the dinner, which was
attended by 250 guests, 100 younger
people came to a dance. The honeymoon
will be spent in Honolulu.
Many gay parties farewelled the Old
Year and ushered in 1957. At Chevron
many celebrating friends gathered, among
them Mr. and Mrs. John Carrodus, who
had as guests Mr. and Mrs. Saul Aarons
and Mr. and Mrs. Jim Wallace. Claridge’s
was filled with dancers, who wore a
variety of very attractive party-hats. Mr.
and Mrs. Bill Gluth were in a small party
which included Mr. and Mrs. Peter Grant
Hay, Cr. and Mrs. Maurice Nathan
were accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. John
Dixon ; and another small party included
Dr. and Mrs. A. Shannos and Rebecca
Troski. At the Overseas League club-
rooms Penny and Jane Casson, with their
brother Anthony, gave a New Year’s Eve
dance. Among their guests were Wendy
Burbank (whose attractive frock was of
white self-spotted organza highlighted
with a pale-pink sash), Vivienne Knox-
Knight, and Diana Creightmore and her
sister Meredith. Mr. and Mrs. John
Casson entertained several of their own
friends, who included Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Hudson, Mr. and Mrs. Terry Vaughan
and Paddy Wilkinson (her frock of filmy
Parma-violet chiffon).
Lady Jungwirth is sharing in the good
wishes extended to her husband, Sir
William John Jungwirth, who was
knighted in the New Year honors-list. He
is secretary of the Premier’s Department
and was joint-director for the Duke of
Edinburgh’s tour of Australia and the
Territories. Lady Jungwirth, who has
two young sons, recently returned with
her husband from a holiday in New
Zealand. Photo by John Warlow.
Colored fairylights were strung through
the trees in the garden of the Kew home
of Mr. and Mrs. Norman Watt, and
masses of flowers were in the large
reception-rooms for the jolly and enter-
taining New Year’s Eve party they gave.
Pam Kennard supplied the music on her
melo-piano while her mother, Mrs. Hal
Kennard, danced a very professional
Highland-fling. As midnight tolled the
passing of 1956 a kilted piper marched
playing into the house.
There were over 70 guests, among them
Mr. and Mrs. George Haines (her contri-
bution from the piano most welcome),
Mrs. John Heath (wearing a Dresden-
shepherdess frock of pastel-pink taffeta),
Dr. W. A. Geddes and his wife, Dr.
and Mrs. Geoffrey Wilson, Mr. and Mrs.
Jack Thrower, and Mr. and Mrs. Roy
Dixon.
. * ☆ ft
A wedding of inter-State interest was
celebrated in St. Andrew’s Church,
Walkerville, Adelaide, when Janet Eliza-
beth, daughter of Mr, and Mrs. Ronald
Orr, of Toorak, exchanged vows with
Patrick, the son of Brigadier and Mrs.
A. M. Forbes, of Medindie (S.A.). The
bride’s gown of white pleated organza
was made with a bell-skirt. The boat-
shaped neckline of the gown was
emphasised with bows on each shoulder,
and a coronet of orange-blossom caught
the veil. Judy Armstrong, of Goomalibee
Park (Vic.), and Alexandra Forbes, sister
of the 'groom, were in attendance wear-
ing short frocks of white nylon-muslin,
with turquoise-blue bows inlet in the back.
Turquoise ribbons were worn in their
hair. Dr. Davis Forbes was best man
and Dr. Michael Hone groomsman.
Reception was at the Medindie home of
the bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Frank
Forward.
The Bench was well represented in
the audience at the Princess Theatre for
the premiere of “Witness for the Prosecu-
tion.” Judge Gamble was accompanied
by Mrs. Gamble, Judge Barry by Mrs.
Barry ; Mr. Justice Sholl was there with
Mrs. Sholl; Mr. Justice Dean (Chan-
cellor of the University) and Mrs. Dean
were another pair.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll had a small party,
which included Dr. and Mrs. Keith
Fairley and their daughter Carolyn. Also
noted were Jenney and Eileen Brennan,
Lillianne Wightman, Mrs. James Mc-
Gauran (wearing a short bouffant frock
of white embossed nylon).
SYDNEY
The New Year blew in with a southerly,
generally a very welcome visitor, but
responsible on this occasion for a certain
amount of tearing of hair and gnashing
of teeth. The reason was that most
parties were organised on the “outdoor
living” theme and had to be reorganised
at the last minute. The big public celebra-
tions were well attended, however, with
nearly 100,000 at Manly, where the
letting-off of £3OO-worth of fireworks,
against bushfire-regulations, rather spoiled
a fine effort of organisation. Among the
private parties, that given by the Royal
Sydney Golf Club was one of the most
outstanding, with its beautiful flower-
decor and its representation of Old
Father Time retreating as 1956 and
coming in rejuvenated as the babe 1957.
Quite a few New Year’s Eve parties
featured “rock-’n’-roll,” so one hears, and
a report says that in Melbourne teen-
agers did rock-’n’-roll in the streets
instead of singing “Auld Lang Syne”!
Query: What is this rock-’n’-roll?
Dancing-teachers draw themselves up to
their full height when asked and say
they do not care to discuss it. Teenagers,
questioned, reply, “Well, it’s just like
jitterbug, only it’s different. You do a
lot of different steps. It’s massive!”
Very illuminating.
Lady Dowling, whose husband’s
knighthood was announced in the New
Year list, is well-known to Sydneysiders,
as the family lived here for some, time
before Sir Roy was appointed as Flag-
Officer commanding the Australian Fleet
and the family went to Melbourne. Their
elder daughters, Jill and Susan, took a
lively part in Sydney’s social-life, and
they have three other children, Rosemary,
Anthony and John. Photo by Norton-
Trevaire.
You can take out your tiara for the
opening-night of the Mozart Opera
Season on Saturday next. Not only are
Governor-General Sir William Slim and
Lady Slim to be present but also many
other V.I.P.s, including Lord and Lady
Carrington. White-tie and tails will be
in order, decorations too, so it will be
quite a sight to behold. (This, of course,
does not bar the black-tie brigade from
being present.)
Robert Quentin, director of the opera-
season, says that the only difference
between ordinary musical-comedy and
Mozart operas is that the Mozart’s are
the very best of the kind. “The
Marriage of Figaro” starts the season
at the Elizabethan Theatre.
V v
An uncommon sort of “old girls’
reunion” was the party of 40 that went
along to see “Alice In Wonderland”
during the holidays, 10 members being
Arts’ graduates of Sydney University and
the remaining 30 small sons, daughters,
nephews, nieces and “little friends from
next door.” Mrs. G. Pavey (who is writer
Margot Manzie) was the organiser, and
she brought young Julian. Others in the
party were Mrs. R. Purflett with Marv-
Jane and Elizabeth, Mrs. Ed. Lewin with
Peter, Mrs. John Gallagher with Paul and
Louise, Mrs. R. McColl (golf-player
Marie Clemenger) with Heather and
Margaret, Mrs. R. Foster (who was Avis
Hosking), and Mrs. Struan Robertson
with lan.
☆ *
A varied assembly heard Sir Leslie
Morshead open the Exhibition of
Grenadier Guards’ uniforms and weapons
at David Jones’ Gallery on Thursday.
There were military types (saw General
Ivan Dougherty, but missed Major-
General Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, who
had to fight fires on his Camden pro-
perty instead of opening the exhibition
as scheduled); gentlemen in old-school
ties and stovepipe trousers (ex-Guards no
doubt); small boys fascinated by the
weapons; inter-State visitors (among
them Mrs. M. Kerr, from Bendigo, Vic.,
with 13-year-old Jenny); engaged couple
Jennifer Crooks and lon Macarthur-
Onslow ; and, above all, George Percival
Cook, 85, “the longest resident in the
Narrabeen War Veterans’ Home” who
had been a Guardsman for 16 years
before coming to Australia in 1912.
☆ ☆ ☆
The death by accident on New Year’s
Day of Miss Betty Ranshaw, one of
Sydney’s most brilliant advertising execu-
tives, brought sorrow at the opening of
the year to the many people who admired
and loved her. Assistant advertising-
manager of one of our largest city stores,
Betty Ranshaw was well-known in the
world of radio and was, distinguished as
the only woman ever to win the Goldberg
Cup for Advertising. She was educated at
the Methodist Ladies' College, Burwood,
was a crack tennis-player and a keen
golfer. Her mother, Mrs. Elsie Ranshaw,
and her brother John survive her.
☆ ☆ ☆
The graph of first-night glamor took
an upward turn with the opening of
“Janus” at the Royal. Black-ties and
ballerinas were the rule, and the effect
was quite gay. Enthusiastic first-nighters
the H. G. Ringlands and the H. J.
Bradys were there, also the Robbie
Brittons (he is Canada’s Trade Coun-
sellor), the Bob Chapmans, from Killara,
a great number of theatrical personalities
(Doris Fitton, Kathleen Gorham, Olive
Walter), Mrs. Noel Vincent waving to
friends from a box, and Mrs. Don Service,
wearing a lovely short dress of shirred
white chiffon.
* ☆ ☆
One of the things that edged its way
into Sydney life during 1956 without
making any great splash was television.
Considering the extraordinary scientific
advances that it represents, people are
taking it very, very calmly, and have not
yet reached the stage where they have to
think about buying a set to keep up with
the Joneses.
About 6000 sets have been sold, one
hears—3ooo in Melbourne and 2000 in
Sydney. (Don’t ask about the other
thousand. That was not revealed.)
Every now and again one meets people
who announce that they are going to be
on television, and immediately there is
a scamper to see whether one could
possibly be up at the radio-shop at five-
o’clock (or some such inconvenient hour)
to see them. Some husbands- have the
temerity to suggest that they should “just
slip down to the pub” to see the television
there “and report back,” but this is not
generally successful. By this time next
year, no doubt, nearly everyone will have
a television-set, or will at least be wonder-
ing how one can possibly be afforded,
after all that Christmas expense!
☆ ☆ ☆
By the way, the number of boys and
young men fluttering round town like
a flock of robin-redbreasts are not
Russian agents, but have merely
succumbed to the vogue for red shirts
(the color of arterial blood) which is
sweeping the town. Frank Sinatra’s red
shirt in “The Tender Trap” is said to be
responsible. So far they have not been
seen in the strongholds of conservatism,
but a thing like that is very catching.
☆ ☆ ☆
Time was when stockings in the bath-
room were a major source of domestic
discord. Now the men have got their own
back with all those nylon, dacron, drip-
dry, etc., shirts that “just have to be
hung on a hanger overnight.” In a flat
there is nowhere but the bathroom to
hang them, so one cannot really complain
about it. But, of course, one does.


Missing Friends
WOULD the relatives or any person know-
ing the name or whereabouts of any
relatives of JOHN HENRY SALDE Mc-
GLASHAN, also known as JOHN Mc-
GLASHAN, Retired Labourer, who was
born at Lockwood, Victoria, and later
went to Tasmania and who died at Silver-
stream Hospital, Wellington, New Zea-
land, on the 16th May, 1956, please com-
municate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Wellington, New Zealand.
WOULD SYDNEY ROBERT AXTILL, or
anybody knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE CO. LTD., 33-39 Hunter Street,
Sydney. (Reference W.8.A.)
WOULD THOMAS WILLIAM TAYLOR,
formerly of Whangarei, New Zealand, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with WEBB, ROSS & ROSS,
Solicitors, Whangarei.
Legal Notice
Estate of ALFRED MARTINA Me-
PHARLIN Deceased. —By direction of the
Supreme Court of South Australia notice
is hereby given pursuant to the Trustee
Act 1936-1968 that all persons claiming
according to the law of South Australia
to be the next of kin of ALFRED
MARTINA McPHARLIN late of Cordillo
Downs Station via Marree deceased (Who
died on 21st December 1953) living at
the time of his death or the issue or legal
personal representatives of such as are
deceased are to send by prepaid post to
PUBLIC TRUSTEE 49 Hindmarsh Square
Adelaide South Australia full particulars
of their claims on or before the 19 th
day of March 1957 otherwise they will be
excluded from the distribution of the
estate of the deceased. N. 8.: ALFRED
MARTINA McPHARLIN was born in
South Australia in 1886. —FINLAYSON,
PHILLIPS, ASTLEY & HAYWARD, 16
Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Between
Ourselves
/> \
rt'C.
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world - ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Situation Wanted
ENGLISH LADY, 50, cultured,
pleasant personality and appear-
ance, conscientious, would like to
manage home for gentleman. Per-
sonal interview' arranged.—Box 9157,
C/o “The Bulletin,” Sydney, N.S.W.
CIVIL ENGINEERS
HONG KONG
Applications are invited from Civil
Engineers for vacancies in the Public
Works Department, Hong Kong, on
3-year contracts in the first instance.
The minimum qualification is
Associate Membership of the Institute
of Civil Engineers of the United
Kingdom and no application from
candidates who do not possess this
qualification can be considered.
Salaries are paid in HK$ at a rate
of HK$l6 to Sterling £l. The
minimum salary is approximately
£A1,633 (made up of basic, expatria-
tion and cost of living allowance) for
a single man, £A1,815 for a married
man without child, and £A1,996 with
child. Up to five additional incre-
ments may be granted for approved
post-qualification experience and
annual increments will be granted
subject to satisfactory service during
the term of the contract.
Free passages for officer and family
will be provided. A gratuity of
£A562 approximately will be paid and
156 days leave on full pay will be
granted on satisfactory completion
of contract. Accommodation with
basic heavy furniture will be pro-
vided at a monthly rent not exceeding
one-seventh basic salary. Free
medical treatment is provided, but a
charge not exceeding HK$lO per day
is made fop hospital accommodation.
Application forms may be obtained
from Professor Zelman Cowen,
Liaison Officer for Colonial Service
Appointments, University of Mel-
bourne, Carlton, N. 3, Victoria.
WORKS
SUPERINTENDENT
PUBLIC WORKS
DEPARTMENT
NORTH BORNEO
The Government of North Borneo
have a vacancy for a Superintendent
of Works in their Public Works
Department.
Applicants should have successfully
completed an approved apprentice-
ship preferably with a firm specialising
in the repair or manufacture ot
public works plant and equipment
and should have at least five years
further experience in the field repair,
adjustment, servicing and operation
of tractors, excavators, quarry
machinery, road rollers, graders, etc.,
with a firm of repute.
Duties would generally comprise
supervision, running and maintenance
of contractors’ plant and one or more
small workshop units for minor
repairs and would entail considerable
travelling in order to cover fairly
widely separated sites. Knowledge
and experience of docking and
service scheduling and the mainten-
ance of stores and plant records is
essential and great importance is
attached to the training and instruc-
tion of local staff.
CONTRACT PERIOD
The appointment is on contract for
a period of three years and is non-
pensionable. Salary ranges from
£AIO0 —£A 153 per month according
to qualifications and experience. In
addition, Inducement Pay ranging
from £A21 —£A3O per month is pay-
able. A Child Allowance is payable
to a married man with children. A
gratuity is payable on satisfactory
completion of the contract at the
rate of 15 per cent, of final basic
salary for each completed month of
service.
Free first-class passages are pro-
vided. Leave will be granted at the
rate of 4 days per month of resident
service or 5 days per month for an
officer who has attained the age of 33.
Simply furnished Government
quarters are provided on payment of
a monthly rental of 10 per cent, of
basic salary. Medical attention is
free.
WHERE TO APPLY
Application forms and further
details regarding conditions of service
etc., are obtainable from the
Dominion Liaison Officer for
Colonial Appointments, University of
Melbourne, Carlton, N-3, Victoria.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Music of 1956
The celebration of the 200th
anniversary of the birth ot
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart,
most versatile of all music-
geniuses, naturally loomed large
in the year’s music-making.
It began with Bernard Heinze
conducting the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra in a com-
prehensive Mozart Festival, the
soloists including pianists Irene
Kohler, Dorothy White and
Joyce Hutchinson, soprano
Glenda Raymond, violinists
Maurice Clare and Ronald
Woodcock, clarinettist Gabor
Reeves and flautist Neville
Amadio. The highlights of the
orchestra’s work were the play-
ing of the composer’s last two
symphonies, the 40th and the
magnificent 41st (the
“Emperor”).
As well as the Austrian con-
ductor Kurt Woess, who was
appointed resident - conductor
of the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra, and who made fruit-
ful visits to the other capitals,
overseas baton-wielders included
the Frenchman Jean Martinon,
who got his excellent effects by
subtlety rather than vigor, and
who, while presenting many
Gallic works, went to the other
side of the Rhine just as often
for his programme and obtained
the best results from even
further east —his reading of
Moussorgsky’s “Pictures at an
Exhibition” was the best this
commentator has heard from the
Sydney orchestra.
The volatile German con-
ductor Hans Schmidt-Isserstedt,
making his second tour of the
Commonwealth, gave a notable
first-performance of the monu-
mental “Carmina Burana,” by
his contemporary compatriot
Carl Orff—a splendid choral-
and-orchestral work cast in the
modern idiom, yet melodically
and harmonically rich.
Joseph Post gave further
proof of his sturdy dependability
in concerts he conducted with,
as soloists, tenor Miklos Gafni
and Vatican organist Germam
(who also gave recitals on the
big Town Hall instruments of
the chief capitals). Later he took
orchestral command in the
Mozart opera-season during the
Olympic Games in Melbourne,
in which performances the Salz-
burger’s four greatest works for
the lyric-stage were presented:
“The Magic Flute,” “Don
Giovanni,” “The Marriage of
Figaro” and “Cosi Fan Tutti.
To add further strength to a
strong almost-all-Australian cast,
Stanley Clarkson’s bass-baritone,
successful in opera and oratoiio
in England for some years, was
co-opted. This season was
artistically rewarding.
The Spanish soprano Victoria
de Los Angeles made her first
visit to Australia.
With an engaging platform
presence and a voice of flawless
beauty, she sang everything
from French and' early-ltalian
songs to opera and lieder, and
gave the best exposition of the
singing of Iberian national
music that Australia has yet
heard.
Hungarian tenor Gafni was
the only other celebrity-singer.
Still a burly 200-odd pounds, he
showed a big improvement in his
art since he was here nine years
ago. Five years • back he
abandoned the concert-platform
for two years to get badly-
needed tuition. The results of
that wise move are little less than
astounding. He now has a well-
controlled mezzo-voce, he can
“attack” on a high, soft head-
note with ease and accuracy, and
he has a great reserve of power.
With still-better control of
breathing he could forge his
way up among the first three of
the world’s robust-tenors.
There were two fiddlers
among the visiting virtuosi.
Mischa Elman, who has been
on the concert-platform for four
decades, and the 23-year-old
Frenchman Christian Ferras.
The older man’s technical
wizardry and rich tone show no
signs of waning. Though rather
cold-seeming in his approach, he
nevertheless was able to extract
from the lower recesses of the
G-string equally as much
warmth and emotion as was
Ferras, despite the latter’s
spectacular flourishes and
dramatic finishings-off in his
bowing. He, too, has tremend-
ous technical equipment and a
lovely tone.
An Australian violinist
returned from study abroad,
Donald Hazelwood gave a
recital . which revealed great
promise.
Benno Moiseiwitsch established
a world-record among visiting
virtuosi by making his seventh
Australian tour; with half-a-
century of public performance
behind him, his digital flexibility
still amazes. His pianism
embraced chiefly the classical
and romantic school, and his
interpretations of Schumann
and Rachmaninoff were note-
worthy.
Another pianist was Mal-
cuzynski, the Pole, whose playing
follows" in the great traditions of
Liszt and Paderewski. Though
he played the three Bs with
distinction, he made no bones
about his natural affinity with
his compatriot who made the
keyboard his personal instru-
ment ; from the dreamy
nocturnes to the fire-engendering
Ballades and Polonaises, his
Chopin was supremely well
done.
The brilliant young Viennese
Paul Badura-Skoda came again,
and gave further proof that he
is in the front rank of the
younger school of pianists He
played and conducted Mozart
from the piano, as Mozart him-
self used to do, and his concerto-
work had the ring of greatness in
Sydney University’s lively Pro
Musica Society went on its
enterprising way with some oft-
the - beaten - track orchestral
Works reaching back 300 years
into the Byrd-Boyce era, and
came to light with a rattling
good performance of Arthur
Benjamin’s sparkling and witty
one-act opera “Prima Donna.
The other opera bracketed with
it—Gustav Holst’s turgid
“Savitri,” based on a Hindu
legend —was deadly-dull stuff.
The Musica Viva Society,
coming back more strongly than
ever, bore the banner ot
chamber-music by bringing out
two top-ranking string-quartets
—the French Pascal and the
American Lasalle —and the
Robert Masters Piano Quartet,
whose teamwork was a real
achievement.
The instrumental “find” of the
year was 15-year-old Janette
Hamilton, of N.S.W., who
unwound some remarkably
mature piano-playing to win
from a strong field the instru-
mental section of the A.B.C.’s
big annual competition. The
vocal section was won easily by
Russell Cooper, also ffom
N.S.W., who as well used his
powerful bass-baritone to the
best effect to notch the “Sun”
Aria competition —a notable
double.
* *• *
“Janus”
“A pretty little comedy which
should run for months. Don’t
you think?”
“Yes, I suppose so —if you
mean it’s the sort of thing
middlebrow audiences in
London and New York turn to
to de-ice themselves after arty
dramatic pieces like ‘Waiting for
Godot’ and ‘A View from the
Bridge.’ ”
“Come, come, that’s a bit on
the hard side, surely? After all,
the play is extremely well knit,
and it’s got some very amusing
situations, hasn’t it?”
“You could say so.”
“And what about Jessie
Matthews? Doesn’t she make a
charmingly affecting job of
Jessica, the two-timing wife who
combines adultery with author-
ship and ends-up making the
palsy-walsiest good companions
of her husband and lover?”
“You could say that, too, I
suppose.”
“And that dumb-waiter touch!
What a stroke of comic genius
to have Jessica’s lover entering
and leaving her flat down the
service-chute! ”
“You think so, do you?”
“Certainly. Particularly since
the author caps it all at the final
curtain by making Jessica
vamoose up the chute when,
instead of her husband arriving
unexpectedly, it’s her lover’s wife
who turns-up.”
“Hmmmm. .
“Dear me, you do seem to be
liverish tonight.”
“Do I?”
“Decidedly. You're giving the
impression you don’t really care
for Carolyn Green’s ‘Janus’ at
all. Yet you were tittering away
contentedly enough during the
performance at Sydney Royal, I
seem to remember.”
“Was I?”
“Yes, and what’s more
you said Edward Howell's
chucklingly underplayed author
Denny was a fetching piece of
whimsy.”
“So I did.”
“And that Jessie Matthews
waltzed around the stage as if
she were every inch the star.”
“I certainly did say that.”
“I don’t get you. What are
you driving at?”
“Simply that the play is far
less amusing than it thinks it is ;
that, though competently acted
and produced, it has nothing
memorable about it; that the
dumb-waiter gimmick has been
done before ; that no one could
really believe the Jessica-Denny
luvvy-duvvy literary partnership
had been going on for seven
summers without Hubby know-
ing anything about it, knowing
Hubby ; that Noel Ferrier’s tax-
collector is a grotesquely wooden
piece of buffoonery; that the
‘vestigial difference’ crack is
just about the unfunniest
anatomical joke I’ve heard in
years ; and that’s about all.’
“Ohhhh....”
A. R.
Melbourne Stage
The holiday season so affected
Melbourne theatre that even that
austere institution, the Uni-
versity of Melbourne, was
reported to be staging a murder-
thriller. The present com-
mentator was wending his way
in that direction when he heard
sounds of devilry by night
emerging from the Princess
Theatre, so, after weighing the
chances of a murder-mystery by
the celebrated Agatha Christie
being better written, better acted
and better produced than the
murder-mystery at the Union
Theatre, he entered the Princess’s
rococo portals.
Against his own will, he was
immediately caught up in
“Witness for the Prosecution.”
Leonard Vole was being tried
for the murder of a rich old lady,
a murder which such a charming
young man obviously could not
have committed. Snorting and
coughing, bluff old Sir Wilfred
Robarts, Q.C., his defending
counsel, was putting him under
cross-examination, while on the
bench Mr. Justice Waiwright
was thinking-up a judicial joke
to relieve the emotional tension
of the situation.
It was all quite real and
enormously exciting. When the
curtain fell on the adjournment
the audience was thoroughly
convinced that Leonard Vole
was as innocent as an angel and
that Janet Mackenzie, the old
lady’s housekeeper, had done
her in. In the interval, newsboys
rushed in and distributed late
editions of the evening-paper, a
touch of realism which only
Miss Agatha Christie could have
thought of.
When the curtain went up, a
flossy-haired girl with a slashed
ear entered and handed Sir
Wilfred a bundle of letters, and
suspicion instantly shifted to the
wife of Leonard and her
paramour, a character who hasn’t
previously been mentioned. One
would think that the really
interesting thing about Mrs. Vole
is that she isn’t married to
Leonard at all. While her
husband still lived she went
through a form of marriage in
order to escape from Germany
to England, and here she is
showing her gratitude to her
deliverer from the Gestapo by
giving evidence against him in
a case of murder.
This is a line of research that
a playwright like Galsworthy
would have followed with the
zest of a bloodhound, but Miss
Christie is too astute a mystery-
writer to allow herself to be
diverted by such unimportant
things as human conflicts. She
saves her audience the discomfort
of thinking by shifting suspicion
on to some other person. She
does this so often that at one
period the present writer was
positive that Mr. Justice
Waiwright had koshed the old
lady in order to gain first-hand
experience of what it feels like
to murder someone.
It turned out, however, that. ..
We next proceed to Her
Majesty’s Theatre, where “Can-
Can” is raising the dust as
vigorously as ever, Eleonore
Trieber is even more sweetly and
freshly charming, and Eric
Reiman, as a Bulgarian sculptor,
is more inordinately funny than
ever.
The Tiv. invites us all to
become children again and, in
our borrowed youth, to visit
“Goody Two .Shoes.” So we
put on our borrowed youth and
try to follow the complications
of a plot which includes a
Yellow Dwarf, and Bluebell, and
Fairy Goodhope, and a Weird
Wood, and the Forces of Good
and Evil, which pit themselves
against each other.
And so to bed, as Mr. Pepys
said.


Wash-day Blues
By DOUGLAS REEVE
CHRISTINE glared in vexa-
tion at the black smears
on her white-enamelled
washing-machine. Really,
it was too much. She lost her
temper and strode into the
lounge to take it out on her
husband.
“He’s been using it again,”
she stormed. “Every time Igo
out he starts it up and leaves
dirty marks all over it for me to
clear up.”
Tom looked up, startled.
“What’s that? Who leaves
dirty marks on what?”
“I’ve told you before about it
but obviously you didn’t listen,”
said Christine furiously. “Him.
Him upstairs. Every time Igo
out he uses the washing-
machine.”
Tom shrugged. “The poor
little devil has to wash his
clothes somewhere. Cleanliness
is next to godliness. If he’s so
much trouble why don’t you tell
him to go and live somewhere
else?”
“Now you’re just being spite-
ful. Apart from this he is no
trouble at all and you know it.
We hardly ever see him. It’s
just these awful black marks.
You’ll have to speak to him.”
Tom slapped his brow.. “Oh,
the trials and tribulations of
having a lodger!” He got to
his feet with an air of patient
resignation. “All right, I’ll speak
to him. You’d better show me
these marks so that I’ll know
what I’m talking about.”
He followed his wife into the
laundry and together they
inspected the washing-machine.
Tom whistled in surprise.
“I see what you mean,” he
said. “It’s a bit much, isn’t it?”
“You see,” cried Christine
triumphantly. “You thought I
was exaggerating, didn’t you?
He’s supposed to be getting
things clean. If you ask me he
must be making them dirtier.”
Tom rubbed his linger on one
of the marks and inspected it
carefully. “It’s like the grease I
get on my hands when I’ve been
fiddling with the car. You say
he leaves it like this every time
he uses it? It’s fantastic. What-
ever can he be up to?”
“Well, it’s not always quite as
bad as that,” admitted Christine,
“but there is always some of the
stuff on it.”
“I know what this is,” said
Tom suddenly. “It’s printers’
ink. And it’s blue, not black.
He must be using it in his room
for some purpose and getting
himself all dirty. Then he comes
down here and does his washing.
He probably doesn’t realise what
a mess he has made. I’ll
certainly mention it to him.”
“Don’t upset him or anything
like that. It’s not really all that
important; just a little annoying.
What do you thing he’s using
printers’ ink for?”
“I dunno,” said Tom thought-
fully. “We’ve never been able
to discover what his job is, have
we? Maybe he has a little
hand-printing-press up in his
room; perhaps he prints hand-
bills or something like that. I
don’t think he goes out to work,
come to think of it, but it’s
difficult to say with both of us
out nearly all the time.”
“Mind you don’t get angry
with him,” urged Christine.
“He’s such an inoffensive little
man; I don’t want him to feel
we are picking on him. It would
make him unhappy. You know
how he is.”
Tom scratched his head reflec-
tively and puffed at his pipe.
“Yes. Perhaps we should
bring him out a bit. Come to
think of it, he must be lonely all
by himself up in his room. We’ll
have to see what we can do to
jolly him along a bit.”
6 6TVTOW don’t get me wrong,
Mr. Jackson,” begged
Tom some time later. “I’d hate
you to think we are complaining
because no one could be more
co-operative or considerate than
you are. It’s just that my wife
has to get a rag with cleaning-
fluid on it to remove the marks.”
“I’m most frightfully sorry,”
muttered Mr. Jackson in mortifi-
cation. “I had no idea”
“Of course you didn’t,” agreed
Tom. “I wouldn’t have noticed
it myself, but you know what
women are. Fussy and all that.”
“No, really I should have been
more careful. It was most
inconsiderate of me. It ’was
printers’ ink, you know. I get
it on my hands sometimes and
don’t notice it. I’m very
sorry.”
Tom looked at the little man
curiously. There was a worried
frown on his little gnomelike
face and he seemed ready to
burst into tears.
“I thought it was printers’
ink,” he said. “I decided I must
be wrong because we couldn’t
imagine what you could possibly
be doing with printers’ ink.”
He looked inquiringly at Mr.
Jackson.
“I suppose I should have
explained to you before; I have
a little press in my room but I
only operate it when you’re out
of the house. Not that it makes
any noise,” he added quickly.
'“Good Lord,” said Tom.
“What do you print on it?
Dirty books? Subversive litera-
ture?”
“Oh no, no. Nothing like
that,” protested Mr. Jackson
with a deep blush. “I print
novelties; mottoes and lines like
that. I do things for use on the
stage sometimes. My speciality
is jobs that printers won’t handle
because of the small quantity
required, if you see what I
mean.”
“I get it. Double-sided play-
ing-cards and that sort of thing.”
“Yes, that’s right,” said Mr.
Jackson eagerly. “I was print-
ing some Ear-basher Certificates
this morning. They sell them in
the novelty-shops for a shilling
each. You present them to
people who talk a lot.”
“Unusual sort of job,” said
Tom with a grin.
“I do hope your wife won’t
mind,” said Mr. Jackson
worriedly. “There’s no harm
in it; it’s to make people laugh
and be happy.”
Mr. Jackson seemed about to
weep and Tom patted him
reassuringly on the back.
“Certainly she won’t mind,”
he said heartily. “In fact she
asked me to tell you that we are
having a few friends in this
evening; just a little party; a
few drinks and a bit of a chat.
We’d like you to come along if
you would. Very informal.”
“It’s very kind of you, I’m
sure. But I’m not very good at
that sort of thing. I never know
what to say.” Mr. Jackson was
very agitated. “If you don’t
mind”
“You realise that Christine
will think you’re offended be-
cause I mentioned the washing-
machine if you refuse?’
“Oh dear, I shouldn’t like her
to think”
“That’s settled, then. We’ll
expect you down about seven.
Good thing to get the party
spirit in your job ; you might
get lots of new ideas.”
“TT was a mistake to invite him
A along,” hissed Tom in the
kitchen some hours later. “Look
at him sitting there on the
settee. He’s like a corpse at a
banquet.”
Christine peeped through the
crack beside the door. Little
Mr. Jackson sat tensely in the
middle of the settee with down-
cast eyes. Every now and again
he would glance furtively up at
the others in the room and avert
his eyes when he saw that they
were looking at him in fascina-
tion. The party at the moment
was not a howling success.
“What are we going to do?”
asked Christine. “Does he drink
anything? That might cheer
him up.”
“Yes,” Tom said, “he says he’d
like a small shandy if it’s not
too much trouhle.”
“Oh Lord.”
“We’ve got to do something
or we might as well send every-
one home. It’s our own fault for
trying to be nice. We knew he
was a rabbit; we could hardly
expect him to be the life-and-
soul of the party.”
“You fix the drinks and I’ll
go in and do what I can. Give
me a yell when they’re ready.
Don’t put too much ginger-beer
in his shandy, for Pete’s sake.”
Christine was thoughtful as
she fixed the drinks. She felt
sorry for Mr. Jackson’s silent
suffering and she felt sorry for
her party, too. She looked at
Mr. Jackson’s shandy and then
at the gin-bottle. She was
tempted and she fell. Looking
round guiltily she poured a
generous measure of gin into
Mr. Jackson’s glass.
Aghast at her depravity she
fled into the lounge and beamed
at everyone with false gaiety.
“The drinks are ready, dear.
Go and be the butler.”
Tom got to his feet and made
for the kitchen. “Whack-oh,”
he said. “I’m sure everyone’s
tongue is hanging out; I know
mine is.” He grinned wanly at
his subdued guests and dis-
appeared into the kitchen.
He looked thoughtfully at the
tall beer-glass standing alone
among the shorts. It’s a dirty
trick, he thought, but what else
can I do? Picking up the
whisky-decanter he slopped a
more than moderate quantity into
the glass. That Ought to put
some life in the corpse, he
thought.
“Here we are again,” he said
briskly. “Drink up, now. This
one is just a spot to settle the
dust. I’ll be performing again
in a minute or*two.”
His guests smiled sadly at him
and quietly sipped their drinks.
Both Christine and Tom
watched covertly as Mr. Jackson
took a long pull at his shandy.
Mr. Jackson’s eyes glistened
slightly and he coughed a little
after his draught but settled back
into his gloom. A few moments
later he gulped and looked
incredulously at his glass.
“Drink up, Mr. Jackson,”
encouraged Tom. “That shandy
is made with a very good brand
of ginger-beer. It has quite a
kick in it, I believe. How do you
like it?”
“Very pleasant,” said Mr.
Jackson, leaning back and clewing
his eyes.
Now he’s going to sleep,
thought Tom. Ah well, better
that than being a zombie.
As if this were a signal the
party started to wake-up. Every-
one started to talk animatedly.
It was as if the fog had suddenly
lifted and the sun had started
to shine again.
DOB MAURER drifted over
-*'* towards Tom and nodded
at Mr. Jackson on the settee.
“Who’s he?” he asked. “He
doesn’t seem to be enjoying life
much.”
“Didn’t you know, Bob?
We’ve had the upstairs-bedroom
empty since my son went off to
England. Christine thought we
might as well take in a lodger
and we won him. He’s a decent
sort of bloke but I don’t think
this sort of thing is his cup of
tea. He’s one of these shy,
retiring types.”
“What does he do? School-
teacher?”
“No, he’s a printer of sorts.
Does it up in his room. Prints
novelties, I gather ; you know,
jokes for Christmas-crackers and
so on.”
He doesn’t strike me as a pro-
fessional humorist, I must say.”
. “Whoopee! ” cried Mr. Jackson
in a high falsetto voice.
There was a stunned silence
and everyone turned to face Mr.
Jackson, who was looking round
with a somewhat pop - eyed
expression on his face.
“Whoopee!” repeated Mr.
Jackson. “Wash a marrer with
everyone? Want to wake up a
bit. ’Sparty, not a funeral. Let’s
hot the party up a bit.
Whoopee!”
“Well 111 be damned,” said
Bob Maurer. “That fellow’s
higher than a kite. On shandy,
too.”
He looked wonderingly at
Tom, who winked solemnly,
“Oh, I get it. You laced it.
Good thing too.”
“Some more shandy,” said Mr.
Jackson, waving his glass at Tom.
“Good drop of stuff, that.
Whoopee! ”
Mr. Jackson leaned back again,
closed his eyes and began to
croon “Nellie. Dean” quietly to
himself. The others gradually
took their eyes off him and
began to talk again.
Shirley Maurer found she had
an unlighted cigarette in her
mouth and she looked around.
Anyone got a match?” she
asked ’ and immediately lighters
hipped and matches were struck.
Shirley was that kind of a ® irk
sbouted Join
suddenly. “Stop him,
somebody!”
They aU looked at Mr. Jack-
son, who had lit a five-pound
note at the electric radiator and
was holding it out to Shirley,
S with .he same 'Tm
game if you are look that
Q ueen Elizabeth must have had
w h e n she stepped on the cloak,
i eaned forward to , light her
cigarette from it fom sprang
f orward tore the note from Mr.
fi»*er S and smothered
the flames m his palms. He
scor ched his fingers but managed
c av ~ t u„ nnt „
« Now> steady on> » he said
roug hl y nursing his fingers,
« Y ou can’t afford to burn fivers ;
no one can.” He was feeling
responsible for Jackson’s actions
and it irritated him. '
M r. Jackson had collapsed on
the sofa and was roaring with
laughter.
“Caught you that time,” he
hooted. “Caught you well and
truly. That’s stage-money. One
of my novelties. I make them
myself; as a matter of fact I
made it this morning on your
washing-machine.”
Everyone crowded round and
inspected the note.


a*
V
mvK
&
ALL-TRUCK BUILT
FROM THE GROUND UP
Mechanic’s -eye view of the
International AS-160 series Truck.
NEW AUSTRALIAN BLACK DIAMOND
ENGINES. Designed for hard-slugging power on the
toughest Australian trucking job. Designed for more
usable horsepower-power developed at economical
engine speeds. No “beefed-up” motor car parts.
MIGHTY CRANKSHAFT. Heat treated, drop
forged steel crankshaft statically and dynamically
balanced. Overlapping bearing journals for increased
strength and rigidity.
HEAVY DUTY U-INCH CLUTCH. With roller
mounted rocking-action release fingers for less
pedal pressure. Fully ventilated design for better
cooling, longer life.
"ALL-TRUCK" TRANSMISSION. Four gear
speeds forward, one reverse. Synchromesh box,
mounted on unit with engine.
PROPELLER SHAFT. Large-diameter heavy-steel
tubing with self-aligning centre bearing. Dynamic-
ally balanced.
FRAME. Pressed steel-channel frame built to
heavy-weight dimensions. High section-modulus
steel-flex.
REAR AXLE. Full-floating single-reduction hypoid
tvoe (AS-160, AS-161) —two speed hypoid bevel with
four pinion planetary spur reduction gears with
electric shift (AS-162), Nickel-chrome alloy steel
axle shafts.
BRAKES. 4 wheel, hydraulic, internal
expanding, 2-shoe double-anchor type
with vacuum booster. Hand : Propellor-
shaft type mounted back of the trans-
mission.
TRUCKMEN DESIGNED THE CAB TOO !
S ten in and try it for yourself-the excellent Ability-natural
angle 'steeringVheel—aH controls just where you’d want them.
Mr. Trucks . Wve Aomig. some i^which
these new International
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
■■ uaovpstfr COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
INTERNATIONAL HARVEST FMT . 744^
rpOM grinned indulgently. “Pay
1 no attention to him,” he
said. “He’s as full as a boot.
Now you sit down and take
things easy, Mr. Jackson. And
don’t burn any more fivers. You
won’t be able to pay the rent.
Jackson stopped laughing and
glared at Tom.
“I did make them on the
washing-machine,” he repeated
truculently. “That s how the ink
got there.” He appealed to the
others gathered around. ‘What
do you think of that ? Just a
little smear of ink and they came
belly-aching to me about making
it dirty.” .
“Steady on” said Tom, no
longer grinning.
“Pay them four-pounds-ten a
week and they think they re
running a charitable institution.
Complaining to me about a
little thing like that.”
“Shameful,” said Shirley with
a delighted smile. “Go on. Tell
us how you make fivers on the
washing-machine. I could use a
few if you’ve got any spares.”
“I’ll show you if you like,”
said Mr. Jackson, beaming at her.
“But'they wouldn’t be any good
for you. If you took one of
those into a shop they’d send for
the police before you had taken
it out of your purse. Believe me,
I know ; I used to be an engraver
at the Mint.”
“They were good enough to
fool old Tom here,” said Bob.
“He burnt his fingers on that
one, all right.”
Mr. Jackson sniggered again.
“Yes, he did too. He was
properly taken-in; I’ve never
seen the trick work better. But
he was all tanked up, mind you.
He’s been on the bottle since
long before you came. It was
easy for an abstainer like me to
fox him.”
Tom glowered at him. The
others chuckled delightedly.
“Yes, all tanked up,” repeated
Mr. Jackson. “So you couldn’t
blame him for being taken in.
Mind you, it’s one of my best
lines. Now I’ll go and get the
plates and one of you can find
me a roll of paper to print them
on. I’m out of the stuff I use.”
“Where will I get a roll of
paper?” asked Christine doubt-
fully. “Unless”
“Yes, that will do fine,” said
Mr. Jackson from the doorway.
“It’s only for demonstration
purposes.”
When Jackson had left the
room Christine looked at the
others helplessly. “He’s not like
this normally,” she said.
“Usually you can’t get a word
out of him.”
“We wouldn’t notice,” said
Tom sourly. “We’re all tanked
up most of the time. Well, I
suppose we’d better all go into
the laundry. The little squirt
seems to have taken charge of
things.”
“It’s fun,” said Shirley
jubilantly. “I haven’t been to
such an interesting party for
ages.”
They all trooped into the
laundry and waited for Mr.
Jackson to appear. Christine
went in search of a suitable roll
of paper.
WHEN Mr. Jackson entered
the room he was carrying
two rollers. They were some-
thing of the same shape as the
rollers in the wringer of his
hosts’ washing-machine.
“Here, Tom,” said Mr.
Jackson cheerfully. “Just hold
on to those while I take your
wringer to pieces.”
Tom’s face was a study, but
he took the rollers as he was
told and stood watching. Mr.
Jackson unscrewed the top of
the wringer and removed the
rollers deftly; it appeared that
he had had plenty of practice.
“Now you can take these
while I put the other two in
position,” he suggested. “That’s
right. Now I just screw this
down here; it’s important to
get the right pressure. The ink
comes from inside the rollers ;
that’s another little invention of
mine.”
Mr. Jackson took the roll of
paper from Christine and
unrolled it a little.
“Switch on, please, Shirley my
dear,” he said, winking in a way
that set Tom’s teeth on edge and
caused Bob to look thoughtful.
“That’s the way. Now here we
go. The first dozen or so won’t
be very good and the paper is
really too thin but you’ll be able
to see how it’s done.”
He frowned at Tom. “I’d
better not get any ink on the
machine, I suppose. People
object, you know.”
Tom leant forward with
interest as the rollers slowly
pushed out a continuous ribbon
of blue-printed paper. Shirley
gave a shriek of delight and tore
off a length, which she draped
round her neck.
“Oh, lovely,” she said, I
don’t care if it is stage money;
it makes me feel like a million
dollars. You’re a very clever
man, Mr. Jackson; I wish Bob
could do anything only half as
clever.”
“Let’s not be so formal, cried
Mr. Jackson, “Call me Cecil.
That’s my name.”
“It would be,” muttered Bob
savagely. “Cecil —bah!”
“Gee, you’re clever, Cecil,”
repeated Shirley. ‘ Isn t he,
Chris?”
“He certainly is,” agreed
Christine, looking old-fashioned
at her washing-machine. “I
certainly never anticipated the
thing would be doing anything
like this when I bought it.”
They all tore off pieces of the
printed paper and inspected
them. Mr. Jackson watched
them with glowing eyes.
“I’ve never seen anything like
it,” admitted Tom grudgingly.
“It certainly had me fooled.
Stage-money or not, they look
real enough to me from a
distance, at any rate.”
“The paper is all used up
now,” said Mr. Jackson, “so I
might as well switch the thing
off. There doesn’t seem to be
any ink on the machine as far as
I can see,” he added with a side-
long gldnce at Tom.
Tom stalked into the lounge
and the rest followed him. Mr.
Jackson disappeared upstairs
with his rollers and came down
later looking flushed and happy.
Shirley, who was herself looking
slightly the worse for wear, came
out of the kitchen and handed a
glass to Mr. Jackson.
“Have another ginger-beer,
Cecil dear,” she said with a
silly giggle. Cecil drained it
without taking a breath.
“Thash a good brand of jisher-
beer,” said Mr. Jackson, and he
put his head down on the arm of
tllfk QPttPP
“What a pity,” said Shirley
with a hiccough. “He’s passed
out”
MR. JACKSON peered
desperately at his plate of
bacon-and-eggs and then looked
at Christine out of the comer
of his eyes.
“Don’t eat it if you don’t feel
hungry,” said Christine kindly.
“Sometimes late nights are a
little upsetting to the stomach.
I understand the ginger-beer was
a little strong, too.” „
“It didn’t do me any harm,
said Tom maliciously, “but then
I’m used to hitting the bottle. Do
il all the time.”
“Now, don’t be spiteful,
reproved Christine. “Mr. Jackson
helped to make the party a great
success last night. All our guests
were talking about your demon-
stration after you had dropped
off to sleep.” . „
“It was terribly rude ot me,
said Mr. Jackson miserably. ‘A
can’t think what got into me.
I’m not usually like that.
Tom took pity on him. “Don’t
think anything of it,” he said.
“We were all glad to have you
and you helped the party along
no end. Those notes of yours
did the trick.”
Mr. Jackson smiled wanly.
“Yes, I may say I’m rather
proud of them myself. I suppose
I rather let my enthusiasm run
away with me. They are my
most successful novelty. The man
who buys them from me insists
on being the sole agent and I’m
quite happy to let him because
I do rather well from them.
“What do you get for them?”
asked Tom. “If it’s not a rude
question,” he added quickly.
Mr. Jackson looked unhappy.
“If I gave you any impression
last night that I resented being
told about the ink-marks on the
washing-machine, it was quite
unintentional. You were perfectly
justified in speaking to me about
it ”
“Not at all,” said Torn,
grinning. “Let's forget it, shall
we?” .. .
“Well, if you’re sure ... About
the stage-money ; I get a shilling
each for them and the man has a
standing order with me for a
hundred a week. He says he
can’t get rid of more than that
in a week. Of course, if he
flooded the market the price
might drop. But he’s very good ;
he always takes his quota ; its
nice to feel sure of five-pounds
every week.”
“I guess it is,” agreed Tom.
“He’s a very pleasant fellow,”
continued Mr. Jackson, and
quite well-to-do, I believe. 01
course there’s a lot of money in
novelties; in the retail side of
it if not in the production side,
he added with a wry smile.,
Tom looked thoughtful.
“Now, don’t misunderstand me.”
he urged, “but don’t you ever
feel tempted to pass-off one of
your notes as a real one? You
had me really fooled last night,
it might be possible to fool
someone else too.”
Mr. Jackson was horrified.
“Oh, goodness me, no. I don’t
want to go to jail. As I think I
told you last night, I used to
Work as an engraver in the Mint.
All the inequalities in my notes
stick out a mile. No one but a
fool would ever mistake them for
the genuine article.”
“Now look here” oegan
Tom.
“Oh, dear,'l’ve offended you
again. 1 didn’t mean . . . It’s
quite a different thing. Oh, I’m
very sorry. I really am.”
Tom sighed wearily. “Forget
it,” he said.
Mr. Jackson, covered with
confusion, got to his feet,
excused himself and fled up to
his room.
Tom looked at Christine and
shook his head expressively.
He took the partly burnt note
from his pocket and studied it
carefully alongside another from
his wallet.
“Do you know what - I’m
thinking?” he asked Christine.
“There’s a man in this city who
has offered seventy-five pounds
for a forged fiver. If you
{Continued on page 34)


LOW'S
Autobiography
Artist’s “note” on Lloyd George
A cartoon, which “pulled no punches,” made David Low
a target for bitter feeling over the “Irish question”—not
the only first-class row he is to get into through cartoon-
commenting on things Irish. In London he meets (and
sketches) Michael Collins (already described) and the
leader, Arthur Griffith, of the Sinn Fein delegation. Also,
now, Asquith, Ramsay MacDonald and H. G. Wells. And
how Low got himself married.
8
( Continued)
ELTHOUGH Collins was the
dominating' personality of the
delegation, Arthur Griffith
was to lead it. He, too, posed
for me amiably.
_ To look at he was the very
opposite of Collins, the unad-
venturous suburbanite Ordinary per-
sonified, short, plump, a bit behind
in the fashions. Was this really
the man who created Sinn Fein? His
moustache was waxed at the ends in the
Victorian style and he wore the wrong
collar. It was only under the questioning
that he became authoritative and revealed
himself as the brains of the party.
Ihe journalists kept arriving and
questions were asked. I can remember
only two:
“Would Home Rule mean Rome Rule,
as your opponents say?”
“The Church has its place in the
State, but that place is not in the Govern-
ment,” replied Griffith.
Too careful, I thought.
“Does the delegation look forward to
success in the difficult negotiations before
it?”
“It’s not what we have before us—it’s
what we have behind us,” replied Collins
A BATCH OF LOW’S “BULLETIN” CARICATURES
McINTOSH GETS A MOVE ON
(Hugh D. Mclntosh, Showman, Newspaper
Owner, Politician, Fight Promoter.)
WADE ON HOLIDAY
(N.S.W. Premier C. G. Wade.)
CHIEF JUSTICE SAM GRIFFITH
SMILES
(“When it was decided in 1903 to constitute
the High Court of Australia, it was generally
agreed that the choice of Griffith for the position
of Chief Justice was the only possible one”
Serle.)
ATTORNEY-
GENERAL HOLMAN
(W. A. Holman, later
Premier; early agitator
team-mate of "Billy”
Hughes.)
NEW ZEALAND R.C.
ARCHBISHOP
(Archbishop Redwood; he was
Archbishop for nearly-50 years.)
enigmatically, or, you mig(hj say,
prophetically.
Had Collins and Griffith survived, no
doubt the story of the new Ireland would
have been very different. The Irish
started their new dispensation with two
hungers, one spiritual, one material: the
one, to salvage their national pride, by
flaunting their own flag, their own
language and their Irishness generally,
taking the late oppressor Britain down a
peg in the process ; the other, to create
for themselves better and juster standards
of life.
Unfortunately, from the beginning the
two hungers occasionally conflicted, and
they could not have it both ways.
Compromising, not uncompromising,
statecraft was needed. Collins, I dare
swear, would have seen to it that they
had less sauce and more pudding.
MY portrait of Collins turned out well.
After taking such trouble it was a
pity I lost it. The damned thing fell out of
my pocket in Chancery-lane on my way
to Fleet-street. But'Collins’s lines had
impressed themselves so vividly on my
mind that I rushed on to the “Star”
office and re-drew it from memory in half-
an-hour.
To my annoyance it was too late. The
original had been picked up and turned-in
to the office by a “Star” reader ten
minutes before I finished the duplicate.
It was reprinted all over the world. But
Wilson Pope, my editor, was not
mollified. He had the “Star” print an
announcement that a standing reward
would be paid to anyone who found me
or my drawings blowing around the
streets areturned me or them to the
“Star” office.
To) Y contrast, the arrival in London of
de Valera later was something of an
anticlimax. All was scrupulously correct,
and consequently less rewarding to
journalists. The other delegates grouped
punctually at ten-o’clock for the
photographers, but Dev kept us waiting
for an hour. Then Erskine Childers,
emaciated and ill-looking, emerged and
said: “Mr. Low, the President will now
receive you. You will please address
the President as ‘Mr. President.’ ”
“Blimey!” said somebody.
(SJOON a by-election at Paisley gave me
an opportunity to see something of
the British political big guns in action.
Liberals, the “Wee Frees,” decided to get
Asquith back into Parliament. With
Harry Jones, an admirable character
from the “Daily News,” as chaperon, off
I went to Paisley, which rapidly became
the assembly-point for leading figures of
the Liberal and Labor parties—Simon,
Runciman, Donald Maclean, Ramsay
MacDonald and others.
The effect of living in a hotel packed
with public monuments, who up till then
had been for a raw Australian stranger
like myself only legendary, was strange.
It was a little flattering, for instance,
upon rushing from my bathroom one
morning in dressing-gown, toothbrush in
hand, to find myself bumping almost
into the great Asquith himself, sailing
along the corridor flanked by Mrs.
Asquith and his daughter Violet.
Later, when I talked with Asquith after
breakfast as he posed for me in his
sitting-room, I found him aloof, old,
worn, uncommunicative and more than
a little crusty.
It was uncomfortable for the old man
to have to open his campaign by eating
his own words about women’s suffrage
and to confess that the presence of women
in his audience was an act of generosity
on their part. Obviously he did not
relish the demands being put upon him
by his election-agent.
This I regretted, for the fruitiness of
his diction struck my ear, tuned to a
comparatively raucous Australian accent,
with real pleasure.
His “line” about the revolutionary
probabilities of a Labor Government did
MICHAEL COLLINS
not impress me, I having experienced
eight years of it overseas and survived.
But one,could forget the matter of his
speech in fascination at the voice,
suggestive of rich port wine, issuing from
the firm lips which he moistened with a
nervous recurring flick of the tip of the
tongue, like a dignified old lizard —a
liberal education in how to speak.
I was intensely interested. Here the
mechanism of speech was not just operat-
ing automatically—thoughts translated
into sound and shot from the mouth in
one process. This old boy had control
of it! His mouth said only what he let
it. And his released remarks were
checked and calculated beforehand. Talk
was not aimless, but designed.
In such company a man who shoots
his mouth is as powerless as a baby. After
Asquith I looked and listened to other
politicians with a sharpened ear to
distinguish those who were the masters
of their tongues and those who were not,
poor things.
For all that, great old man as he was,
I could not see Asquith as the mouthpiece
of post-war youth.
THE show over the way I found just
as interesting, in a different way. I
was . perhaps too greatly impressed by
Ramsay MacDonald, who looked to me
a real leader. He seemed taller in those
days and more craggy, as he stalked up
and down. A handsome figure, fine
voice, shabby blue-serge suit, handlebars
moustache solid black against solid white
of hair-forelock.
I enjoyed drawing him. Although I
had him all out of proportion, physically
and otherwise, I didn’t know it. For
many years he was to be one of my
failures in representation, until I outgrew
that windswept-hero first-impression.
I had a letter to Ramsay from old
Champion in Melbourne. He was
courteous and I was soon free of the
Labor camp. Of them all I liked best old
Bob Smillie, the secretary of the Miners’
Federation, who took me aside and said
some rash things. More heart than
head, I decided.
EN between meetings Harry Jones and I
ranged the district “sampling” the
voters. Our visits to and with local


Labor leaders took us to some stinking
dens in Glasgow. This was new to me.
There was nothing like this in the
Dominions. I had never seen real povetry
and degradation before. Eugh, the places
crawled!
1 was filled with rage and disgust,
rather than pity, at the blind stupidity
that allowed such things to be.
On the whole, if I had had a vote
it would have gone to Labor on the issues.
The cartoons I sent down to London
reflected my preference, and my editor
exercised his contract right to edit two
of them out of the paper. I did not com-
plain. The position of the “Star,” like
that of the “Daily News,” was
ambiguous: Liberal, but friendly to
Labor, except that they wished Asquith
to win this election. And, of course, the
old man should have been in Parliament.
ASQUITH won. But I returned to
London with the feeling of having
come from overseas just in time to catch
the twilight of the old pre-war
generation.
Succeeding weeks intensified this feel-
ing, as a procession of legendary figures
passed across my vision.
Using all my privileges —and a bit
more —I attended all the conferences and
meetings within reach —and there were
many at that time—rubbing shoulders
with Briand and Foch, breathing down
the necks of Curzon, Balfour and Robert
Cecil, taking a sidelong look at the worn
old tiger Clemenceau and a short squint
at the first of the post-war Germans,
Simons and von Seeckt.
A tired-looking lot of old men, all
except Lloyd George, who was at his
top, electric, magnetic. I made a note
of him one conference morning arriving
across the yard of St. James’s Palace.
The man radiated vitality.
9
AFTER giving myself about three
months to get the wheels running
smoothly under my job, I felt it was
time to look up H. G. Wells.
I am a Wells man. I came on his
books in my early teens and I soon began
to think of him as larger than life-size,
almost as a god.
There was some excuse for this
immoderate enthusiasm. In those days
when communications were not as easy as
they are today, very few current writers
in the Old World could project their
personalities with any emphasis across
the fifteen-thousand miles to New
Zealand. To thoseghat did, distance lent
enchantment.
In that far-off colony—as it was then —
the influence of Wells over the rising
generation was in my case surely as
great as he could have desired.
What a vista of imagination was opened
when I lighted on those paper-covered
Colonial editions of The Time Machine
and The Island of Doctor Moreau ;
how Love and Mr. Lewisham accorded
so with my adolescent moods that I
walked around dreamily inside the
character for weeks looking for my Ethel
Henderson ; how I waited for the well-
thumbed library copy of Kipps and
became him for a space, too ; and when
from these I passed fascinated to the
procession of socio-political essays and
novels, how they stirred me to a livelier
interest in the sickness and health of
societies, the institution of marriage, the
emancipation of women, the bases of
good government and the future of
mankind.
The worshipper takes a risk in coming
to sit at the feet of his oracle. I
opened the ball by sending a note cover-
ing a letter of introduction from someone
he had probably never heard of. He put
me off, saying his bath was out of order.
Good-night! I thought. But a month
later came a gracious invitation to my
sister and myself to weekend at Easton
Glebe. "Not only was the bath repaired,
but Mrs. Wells had now repainted the
bathroom with mural designs of fish in
submarine effects.
Impressed by this apparent obsession
with cleanliness, we packed our soap
and off we went.
THIS first visit to see Wells was not a
howling success. I was tongue-tied
with shyness. They lived in one of those
roomy country houses with green creeper
covering the entire front wall excepting
the porticoed door leading into a flagged
entrance-hall. Against a background of
open deer-park lay, in front, the lawn on
which Mr. Britling played hockey while
Seeing It Through; to one side, the
sunken garden and the barn in which they
played their famous ball-game.
Jane was graciously welcoming, H. G.
was geniality itself. I felt they had
expected us both to be different. After
tea, walking across the horizon alongside
this plump, high-fluting man with a
speech-mannerism of “dontcher know,”
in knickerbockers and yellow moustache,
I could not recall the flavor of Hoop-
driver, Mr. Lewisham or Kipps, and I got
nowhere. It did not seem to me that
there could be much between us.
'When I found my tongue a little more
with Jane, it was only to get off on the
wrong foot. When I was asked what
struck me so far about the English, I
said “Tips.” Coming from Australia,
almost a classless society, I could not
understand the greasy ease with which
people accepted tips and the humiliating
admission of inferior status that came
with them. Had these people no pride?
Did they not feel as good as the next
man? If I had offered a tip to a self-
respecting Australian, he would have
flipped it back in my face . . . Jane dis-
agreed.
The other guest was Middleton Murry,
already a distinguished critic, who made
no concessions. I found myself at odds
with him about practically everything,
from the derivation of the style of Will
Dyson (he thought it was French, whereas
I knew it to be German) to the
influence of politics on the course of
human affairs (he thought it was a minor
influence, a view I could not accept for
one moment).
The caption in the hook is MADELINE (to whom, in New Zealand,
Low proposed from London).
EVERYBODY dressed for dinner
except the Lows. (How could one
guess how Socialists behaved in England?)
Table-talk about the relative merits of
Oxford and Cambridge, about which I
knew nothing. I was not familiar with
the underlying assumptions and associa-
tions of English conversation. My idioms
were wrong, my similes were foreign.
lt „ /u + T „ .1,- c - p r i„ ;cir H
What do they t „ r
Grey in Australia? asked EG, Grey
being his pet disgust at the time.
“Sir Edward Grey? I said. They
don't think about him at all Which was
true enough. I could see Wells did not
think much of Australia.
H.G. and Jane probably felt the party
was getting a bit heavy and decided to
break it up a bit by organising some
horseplay after dinner. We all put on
comic paper-hats, one of the boys manned
the piano-player, H.G. ? wearing a tea-
cosy and an Oriental dressing-gown and
banging a gong, led a capering proces-
sion through the house, up and down
the stairs, over the chairs, tables and
sofas in time to the music. Then we
felt better.
TjMiIGHT. Deep silence punctuated by
AM the almighty row made by Lady
Warwick’s amorous buck deer courting
their does in the park outside The sun
was up when I fell into a gentle doze.. . .
sl ®®P ;* • , , ,
WHAM! I was awakened by Gotter-
dammerung being played on the pianola,
holds barred by a Wei s boy. Sooth-
mg bath among Mrs. Wells s painted fish.
Help-yourself breakfast (bacon and eggs,
k( toast, jam, coffee), a siesta with the
Sunday papers.
“What do you think of Garvin?”
„ oh _ ah _ rve never becn there ...
To (he Bam for the Ball Game . A lot
Q f business fossicking out pairs of canvas
s b oes from an old trunk. Then a large
m edicine-bali coming at you, it being
y OUr business to cannon it off a cross-
beam back at a Wells,
i am probably wrong, but it seemed to
me that the Wells family tended to gang-
up on the visitor, but it wouldn’t have
mattered if they hadn’t, because I would
never have been any good anyway,
Properly exhausted, we repaired to
(Continued on next page)
“Asquith posed for me in his sitting-room.”


lunch, thence to sleep, followed by tea
with visitors, whose names escaped me,
a long walk, dinner, talk, bed. No
unusual routine, but strange to me,
accustomed to less deliberately planned
relaxation.
Well, well, I thought, as I shook hands
with H.G. and Jane at parting, I may
never see you again. But 1 did, often, and
as time passed and I learned the ways of
the English 1 grew to have a warm affec-
tion for them both.
17 T dawned on me later that if I had not
shone as a bright talker at our first
meeting, that was all to the good, since
H.G., like most men with power of
expression and boundless interest in life,
had wanted to do all the talking, anyway,
and I had shown myself a good listener.
When I had established myself more
soundly in London and was able to begin
returning his hospitality, I bore that in
mind. I arranged two or three quiet
luncheons at Boulestin’s to which I
brought select companies of the rising
generation of crack commentators on
affairs from Fleet-street, and an
occasional visiting politician from the
Dominions, to whom he could hold forth
endlessly without unsympathetic interrup-
tion.
This pleased him, and our friendship
improved. In these circumstances my
own inhibitions slowly disappeared and
there were fewer sterile silences for me.
I began to partake of his atmosphere and
warm to my own best and liveliest in his
company. Now and then, stimulated by
his evocative talk, I forgot my position
as acolyte entirely and began to chip in
at inordinate length.
“David! David! I’m talking!” said
H.G., pained.
It could never be said that I talked
H.G. out, but once I came near it. It
was as Easton Glebe, about the time he
was incubating The Science of Life and
taking a passing interest in psychic
phenomena. An outbreak of articles on
spiritualism had occurred in the Sunday
papers—Vale-Owen in the “Dispatch,”
Conan Doyle in the “Express,” and others.
H.G. look a poor view of their stuff,
and I positively had to open up my own
little tale as follows:
TO/HEN I was twenty-two I discovered
v V that my sister, fifteen, and I had a
joint talent at a form of “spiritualistic
phenomena” which some ten years later
became widely commercialised as the
Oui-ja.
Our apparatus was simple: a supple
twig, and a sheet of cardboard with the
letters of the alphabet and the numerals
printed on it in pencil, “Yes” and “No”
in the top corners to save time.
We sat opposite one another, the card-
board alphabet propped up on the table,
the twig resting on the tips of our four
thumbs and first-fingers, not grasped,
but barely retained. Soon the twig
trembled and a perceptible force seeming
to come from without twisted and turned
it in mid-air, almost jumping it off our
fingers, taking us around the room as we
followed its impulses, then leading us
back to the alphabet card, where by
tapping the letters with its point it pro-
ceeded to spell out . . . nonsense.
We were both thin, eager, highly-
strung youngsters with complete confi-
dence in one another, and there was no
possibility of deception. This inexplicable
force was disturbing. We decided to go
into it further at home in private, and for
some weeks the twig had at least one
“seance” daily.
The results were alarming—or they
would have been had we not agreed to
take whatever happened in a friendly
spirit. The twig now “talked” quite
freely and sensibly, in several “personal-
ities,” spelling its words out as quickly
as a typist in reply to our spoken conver-
sation. The wisdom and wit of its most
constant “personality,” called Meredith,
astonished us. We were no match for
its unexpected thrusts in argument. For
three engrossing nights we “listened” to
an account of what happened after one
died.
This sounds more eerie than it actually
was, for the atmosphere of the proceed-
ings was now jovial and light-hearted.
With familiarity we advanced to the stage
of asking friend Meredith to arrange
contacts, first with long-dead relatives,
then with historic personages. Rather
as one pulls a name out of a hat, I asked
to talk to Shakspeare.
It took three weeks’ hard going to get
him, he being much advanced from
wherever we were, but at last, one
appointed night, Meredith, whose force
had waxed to great vitality, handed over.
The twig suddenly became weak, almost
motionless.
“Hullo! Is that William Shakspeare?”
I asked.
ine twig had just enough energy to
answer: “Yes.”
“One or two things I want to know,
sir,” I said respectfully. “Were all the
plays commonly ascribed to you written
by you or were any, some or all written
by Francis Bacon?”
“All mine.”
“Does a cipher message run through
the plays?”
“Yes.”
“What is the message?”
“It reveals ye indiscretions of ye
Queene.”
“Oh. What were these indiscretions?”
On this invitation the twig, so to speak,
cleared decks for action and spelling out
for about five minutes without a break,
with great rapidity and energy, a list of
names and places,
I realised with surprise that since Shak-
speare had arrived the expressions and
spelling had become Elizabethan with
plenty of “e’s” and “ye’s ”
The climax of this story is that I spent
the next morning at a public library in
Sydney turning-up histories of the period.
The names and places were authentic,
anyway. It was very puzzling.
We resumed with Shakspeare the next
evening. With an eye on the main chance,
I suggested that he might like to write a
new play, and offered myself as the
medium and scribe. The proposal was
received coldly. He did, however, volun-
teer a few cartoon ideas. They were no
good. We drifted apart and I got into an
argument with Voltaire . . . but that is
another story.
“What do you make of that, H.G.?
Demons? Spirits of the dead? There is
RAMSAY
(This Ramsay MacDonald and the H. G. Wells are from the very fine series of David Low caricatures of leading personalities
which London “New Statesman” printed as supplements.)
“Come down off your perch”—ran the
caption on this David Low cartoon in
“The Bulletin” after the Melbourne Cup
racing.
no evidence here, except the say-so, of
survival after death.
“Released subconscious? Unconscious
memory? We felt we were talking to
a complete somebody else, coherent,
intelligent, eloquent, unpredictable and
often quite contrary in view to both of us.
The separateness was vivid at times.
Neither of us had ever read anything
at all detailed about Elizabeth and her
Court.
“Thought reception and transmission?
To, from or by either of us? Were we
open to anybody like a sort of Post
Office? Some power as yet unexplained
arising from a peculiar juxtaposition of
two surrendered wills? Any of these
explanations involves a formidable
admission of vast uncharted regions of
the mind. What do you think, H.G.?”
No reply. He had dozed off.
6fIKJ"jEY! H.G.!” I said, loud enough
■d> to wake the sleepy sage. “What
do you thing of Oui-ja, automatic writ-
ing, messages from the unknown and that
kind of thing?”
Wells’s explanation was that we human-
beings were moving about up to our
chests perhaps in a kind of sea of thought
and ideas. When the emotional weather
grew stormy, the waves sometimes swept
over our heads. From this sea, one was
constantly receiving thoughts and passing
them back again. My sister and I, having
put ourselves into a state of willing and
complete receptivity, would get the
maximum intake.
“Good Lord, H.G.!” I said. “What
about the intelligence that selects the ideas
for reception and arranges them in
relevance and sequence? If you can
believe what you have just said, why
can't you believe in fairies, Heaven and
the resurrection of the dead?”
IT was that Wells weekend that
started me thinking of religion.
I had heard a lot of talk about God
since I arrived in Britain. At Paisley
there had been much insistence on
Christian principles by all political
parties. The “Daily News” and the “Star”
were controlled by the old Quaker family
of Cadbury, and the reflection of their
beliefs was frequently the subject of
editorial discussion.
Then, my sister had decided to marry a
Roman Catholic and preparations were
afoot for her entry info his church.
1, as the only member of her family
present, found myself unexpectedly
involved in responsibilities ranging over a
fairly wide area of theological inquiry
within the families of both bride and
bridegroom. And, finally, I had made the
acquaintance of Canon Adderley, “Father
Jim,” the Rector of St. Paul’s Covent
Garden, through a publisher who engaged
me to illustrate one of his books.
He was an admirable character, but
our meetings were exasperating. I wanted
to talk religion with him, but he seemed
to take it for granted that that was the


one subject I wouldn’t want to talk
about. , ,
“You know where you stand, don t
you?” he said, puffing his large evil-
smelling pipe. “If not, you’d better find
By Jove, he’s right! A man should
know himself. He has to be with himself
so much.
In the deadly serious moments that
come as reaction to the grind of being
“bright,” I began to take stock. During
the bitterly cold, rather lonely, hard-
working winter of 1919-1920 I went or
some long walks and arrived at a row or
question-marks. .
I did not know the secret of life. But
neither did anyone else. I heard or
infinity, but I was unable to imagine it.
I was aware of mysteries but also o
unexplored regions of the mind. 1 coul
not say whether there was life (in a con-
tinuing recognisable individual sense;
after death, or even whether there was
spiritual life at all other than that con-
tingent upon physical life.
I knew that nobody could know any
one thing positively and absolutely unless
he knew everything. Yet as 1 touna
myself, I could not abdicate my responsi-
bility for using my own powers and per-
ceptions, such as they were, however
imperfect they might be, as well as 1
could. To do otherwise, I felt, would be
self-betrayal.
“The real truths are incapable of proof
—not to be apprehended by the senses,
I was told. Dangerous words. For 1
knew that, surrendering reason to
emotion, I could persuade myself to
believe anything, error as easily as truth.
I remained what I had always been—-
an agnostic, tolerant and inquiring of
other views. That is to say, I act
upon the assumptions that love (“good-
will” is the better word since “love” has
been monopolised and corrupted by its
sex application) and simplicity (meaning
not the “simplicity” of the half-wit, but
clarity of understanding and purity of
conduct) were the fundamentals of good
living.
As for all else, I remained open-
minded, ready to be persuaded. But not
by threats, promises, organ music, lofty
architecture, magic words, intonations,
vestments, ritual, massed choirs or the
company of vast crowds of people.
My greatest weakness, perhaps, was
that I found nothing about that attitude
to make me miserable. On the contrary,
I was as cheerful as a lark. That’s what
comes of having a good stomach.
ALL this spate of ratiocination on
Higher Things did not preclude some
practical thought on my domestic affairs.
When my sister married these appeared
to converge to a pointed conclusion. The
time had come, I decided, when I must
get married, too. An adventurous
domestic freedom might frequently be
stimulating, especially for artists who
need stimulating; but when one had a
job to do it was best to adventure freely
on a settled domestic background.
When I found myself thinking like
that, I was certain I was approaching
middle-age. 1 was twenty-eight. There
have to be two parties to a marriage of
course, but so far as I was concerned I
was ready. 1
I was not without experience of the
opposite sex. There had been few
intervals since I was thirteen when I had
not been infatuated with some fair
charmer. In the process I had come to
dislike fluttering soft women as much as
FOCH
strong hard women ; and to detest greedy
women, excitable women, envious
women, women who played up their sex,
women who could not keep their arms
and legs still, and women whose mouths
opened to emit prattle without their
permission.
If two qualities more than others
attracted me to a woman, they were that
she have calm and the excellent thing, a
voice low and sweet.
I was also as susceptible to beauty and
the talents of good housekeeping as most
men, but I did not regard these as of
paramount importance in marriage, since
if one wants a good housekeeper one can
hire one, and if all one wants of women
is physical attraction, far better not to
marry at all but to “keep” someone. That
way one would be doing the Divorce
Court a good turn, anyway.
No, to my mind a wife should be a
companion and marriage a partnership.
I sent a cablegram to Madeline
Kenning, of Auckland, New Zealand,
saying: “Will you marry me?” prepaying
address and one word in reply. In due
course the answer came: “Yes,” and in
four months she arrived, we were married
without fuss in the presence of my sister
and her new husband and two friends by
Father Adderley in the otherwise starkly
empty Covent Garden St. Paul’s Church.
MOW, I knew this was not the way
to do it. My wife and I knew very
little about one another, the duration of
our acquaintance until she stepped off the
ship at Southampton having been only
three days. We had met during a flying
visit I had made to New Zealand from
Australia three years before.
True, in a New Zealand town in the
early days it was difficult for any family
to be unknown to all other families, and
I had soon become aware of her ante-
cedents, which were very like my own —
Scottish-Irish parentage, middle-class,
commercial-management division. But
what does such data tell?
What is the lure of love?/ Not beauty
alone. The essential physical attractions,
certainly, and the indefinable appeal to
the imagination which imbues every
detail with romantic charm; but more
than that, it lies in the flash of recogni-
tion, the unspoken understanding, the
reassur anc e , reinforce-
ment. I felt good when
she was around. In her
big grey eyes lay life. In
other words, I loved her.
Instead of revisiting my
birthplace, I spent my
three days in Auckland
where she lived. On the
second day we went for a
long walk and, sitting on
a rock by the sea, we dis-
cussed our immediate
marriage. Impossible. We
both had too many family
responsibilities. But this
was unfinished business
that had one day to be
completed . . .
Her responsibilities had
lightened. So had mine.
The day had arrived. As
I waited on the pier for
her to disembark I thought
we might be rushing it a
bit. I —she—we —took a
frightful risk. Either or
both of us might be
perverts, drunks or mad, for all the one
or the other or both of us might know.
By jove, I thought, if ever we have
children, and they are normal (oh, Lord!),
1 swear I will never allow any of them to
do anything like this.
Fortunately our case proved the
exception to the rule that calculation
is superior to instinct in ordering human
affairs, at least so far as the selection of a
mate is concerned.
It was an ideally happy iparriage from
the beginning. Mutual attraction had
been the one reality of our attachment,
all else being vague and of no
consequence.
There was not only the atmosphere of
golden romance, but also, as it turned
out, a practical advantage in starting
from scratch. Where all was uncertain
but the central point, it was easier to
make mutual compromises in our joint
way of life.
Once more the Fates had adjusted a
pretty balance, for while the Scottish
predominated over the Irish in me, the
reverse was the case with her.. And we
were both natural Londoners. A new
peace and tranquillity entered my private
I thought I loved my wife when I
married her, but now I know that 1 did
not fall into adoration until after we had
been married about four years and had
two bouncing daughters just like her.
A momentary initial misgiving could
H. G. WELLS
not have been all on one side. The
unknown may be romantic, but also
extremely disturbing, and I and my world
must at first have seemed difficult to
measure
My fiancee’s arrival in London was
marked by an amazing incident which
boggled her judgment to start with. We
were bowling away in an open car (it was
a golden May day) from Victoria Station
along Buckingham Palace Road when
both of us caught sight of vaguely
familiar faces looking over the Palace
Garden wall
It was King George the Fifth and
Queen Marv with two or three others,
Apparent ffiey were sunning themselves
on an eminence behind the wall and had
“eaned over to look at the traffic.
v 1 ooiri A/raHoiino nma7Pd
°h look. said. M , •
“The King and Q ue f l J*
The King’s eye fell on my radiant
fiancee. He raised his hat solemnly. I
raised mine back. The moment passed . . .
“Urn, yes,” 1 said, looking at her wrist-
watch. “Punctual ... 1 told them
twelve-thirty ...
A bright spot. It was months before
Madeline realised that the stranger she
had married was not quite as influential
as all that.
,„ , , . . £ ,
TT T could have been no picnic for her
ii to come alone to a different world full
of unheard-of difficulties of living, to
make a home for a “professional” man
of uncertain habits and enthusiasms who
littered the place with newspapers, talked
politics in his bath and made on her tne
strangest demands. No one was more
relieved than wife when the Irish
Peace Treaty was signed, because no
longer need she pose for Erin bowed,
shackled, and insufficiently clothed
against the blasts of Tyranny,
My marriage gave me what I had
always needed—a private audience. As
soon as we were settled in a small house
on the outskirts of London a system
organised itself to accord with the needs
whereby every morning after breakfast
my wife sat offering comments as I
thought aloud, and rendered a report on
the day’s news in my own words, relating
« to what had happened yesterday and
what was likely to happen tomorow.
This I found was of inestimable benefit
to me in getting my views and ideas
stra jgj lt and it opened the world up to
her *
Later, when the children came, we
occas i ona iiy incorporated them and who-
eyer e j se happened to be in the house for
service in the “Kitchen Cabinet,” which,
as t h e children grew older, became a fixed
f ea t U re in our way of life,
Tedious? Nobody who heard the
shouts of laughter, snatches of song and
occasional horse-play that punctuated the
political conferences of the Low family
wou jd have thought so, especially when
d ioined in
our-aog jomea in.
{To be continued next week)


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,’’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/8 Foreign .... £3/6/*
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
•v
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND ITS
RED MILL RUM.
Darby Munro had few peers
in the saddle, winning most of
Australia’s important races,
including three Melbourne Cups
—Peter Pan, Sirius and Russia.
Turning to training, he has not
hit the highlights yet. Maybe
he hasn’t had the right material
and hasn’t had enough horses.
Leading jockeys, of course, don’t
always make the best trainers,
though Maurice McCarten and
two or three others have proved
exceptions. However, Munro has
now led in his first metropolitan
winner—Lelspec, who won the
Two-year-old Maiden for fillies
in easy fashion at Canterbury
Park last Saturday.
Lelspec was George Moore’s
first mount following a two-
month suspension imposed by
the V.R.C. stewards at the
Melbourne Cup meeting. In
running, Lelspec looked like
having a tough task to pull his
5-to-4 punters through, but a
lucky break at the home-turn
brought victory. Both Munro
and Moore were given a Mel-
bourne Cup reception as the
filly was unsaddled.
• • • •
Lelspec is a sister to smart
performer Teranyan, and is a
half-sister to New Spec, who
ian a close second in a later
race at Canterbury. The filly is
by Stockade (imp.) from
Aspect by Eastern Monarch
(imp.). Aspect, has produced at
least six winners; she herself
wasn’t raced.
Medallion, a three-year-old
gelding by Delville Wood, won
his first race, the Campsie
Stakes at Canterbury, in good
style, starting favorite, which
was only to be expected after
his close second to Roman
Emperor at Randwick a few
days earlier, when he came from
the rear of the field. Medallion
hasn’t done much racing. One
of T. J. Smith’s Randwick
team, he is bred to stay, as he
is from a half-sister to dual
Melbourne Cup winner Peter
Pan. Medallion’s dam, Phoebe,
is by Pantheon (imp.) from
Alwina by St. Alwyne (imp.).
She has produced other winners,
but Medallion might well prove
her best.
• • • •
Starry Eyes, having his first
race-start, secured a photo-
finish verdict in the Moonee
Valley Puckle Handicap for
two-year-olds. Some shrewd
anticipators backed him over-
night at long odds and profited
handsomely. Starry Eyes is
raced by his breeder, Dave
Whiteside, who gave the
youngster a good winning
chance, but at the same time
thought he would be the better
for his first public appearance.
A half-brother to former top-
class galloper Laurie Hussar,
Starry Eyes is one of the early
progeny of imported Smokey
Eyes to win a race ; the sire’s
oldest gallopers are two-year-
olds. Smokey Eyes is by Star
Kingdom’s sire, Stardust, and
was a good-class winner in
England. Lorrient, dam of the
Valley winner, is by Hellespont
(Fr.) from First Thrill by
Trillion.
Grey horses are winning more
races these days simply because
their numbers have increased
sharply over the past two or
three seasons. Misty Anne, a
two-year-old grey filly, winner
of the Virginia Stakes at
Caulfield, is a daughter of
the grey imported sire Meadow
Mist and Antilles by Fresco
(imp.). Meadow Mist has sired
several smart winners in Mel-
bourne, chief among them the
well-performed three - year - old
filly Leave, who also won at the
Valley on Saturday. In England
Meadow Mist won half-a-dozen
races.
Star Realm, one of the fastest
horses to race on Sydney tracks
in recent seasons, didn’t take
long to make his presence felt
in America. Ridden by Johnny
Longden, he won his first race
there a couple of weeks ago,
running fastest time for Santa
Anita track at 6 \ furlongs, 1.14|.
Star Realm’s time equals the
world’s best, and former Sydney
galloper Nagpuni is among the
holders; it was made from a
flying start. Sydney’s best time,
1.17 j, was made by Pantomime.
Thoroughbred - breeder and
pedigree-expert Bill Tyler, of
Puen Buen stud, Scone (N.S.W.),
is enthusiastic about one of his
breeding a weanling three-
quarter-sister in blood to the
new two-year-old galloping-
machine Todman. Both are by
grandsons of famous Hyperion
and are out of two imported half-
sisters, Oceana and Fortaleza.
Tyler’s newcomer running in the
paddocks is by Good Brandy
(imp.). Fortaleza’s yearling by
Stokes (imp.) was bought by
Brisbane trainer Fred Best at
the Randwick auction last April.
The mare is by Fairhaven from
Orama by Diophon.
Most of the crack performers
of the spring round have com-
pleted a short rest and are doing
minor tasks on the various tracks
prior to settling down to an
autumn preparation. Among
those to resume are stayers Red-
craze, Evening Peal and
Caranna, all possible bidders for
the £lO,OOO Queen Elizabeth
Stakes at Flemington on March
11 and the £12,500 Sydney Cup
on 22.
Horses to contest next
month’s Oakleigh Plate at Caul-
field are already getting into
form. Brisbane enthusiasts are
giving their top sprinter, Gullun-
gun, a good chance in the big
sprint this year. Gullungun, who
has shown excellent winning-
form at recent starts, cleared out
with last Saturday’s Albion
Park First Division Handicap
(5i furlongs), carrying 8.7.
Alf Boa, general-manager of
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.,
who recently arrived back in
Sydney from America, has
returned to the U.S., where his
company hopes to do big
business with Australian-
constructed tote machinery,
which leads the world in its
particular field. Units of the
latest electronic-doubles in use
in Melbourne and in Brisbane
will soon be operating on New
Zealand, Singapore and South
African courses.
A choice lot from the latest
registration for punters to wrestle
with (perhaps): Agino 11 i,
Emohruo, Just a Moment,
Morninippi, Out of the Bag,
Murrenwink, Ozymandias,
Owissa, Phanakapan, Red
Christmas, Zoroanda.
+ +
Queensland defeated N.S.W.
in the Shield game in Sydney on
the first innings by 302 runs.
Largely with the aid of a second-
innings 198 by Watson, N.S.W.
averted what looked at one
stage like certain outright defeat.
(To still have a chance of
winning the Shield Q. had to win
outright.) Queensland skipper
Lindwall dropped two catches
which may have made the
difference—in Jhe first innings,
Davidson, when he was 12 (he
went on to 72 not-out); in the
second, Watson, when he was
23. Last season’s equivalent
game was also won by Queens-
land on the first innings by the
also handsome-enough margin of
199 runs—though at the end
the Northerners were struggling
to avoid outright loss. Another
comparison of the two games
reveals Mackay’s evident
partiality for the S.C.G. and
N.S.W.’s trundlers 169 this
year, 203 last year. “Slasher,”
of course, has made other big
scores in Sydney, too.
“K.R.”: One of the best stories of
Bill O’Reilly is told in Miller and
Whitington’s Gods or Flannelled
Fools ?, in a section mainly about
former Australian captain Vic
Richardson. In a Test in South
Africa in 1935-36 Australia, in the
field, was battling, and O’Reilly
lacked his usual “killer instinct.” “So
Vic purposely took him off and
kept him out of the attack for the
rest of the first session. He also
asked Stan McCabe and Len Darling
to keep ‘baiting’ O’Reilly about having
to field on the fence. ‘Aren’t you
playing in this match, Tiger?’ asked
Stan. ‘Don’t d well look like it,
does it?’ growled Bill, striding
impatiently this way, then that, in the
outfield. By lunch O’Reilly was
ropeable... .the ‘baiting’ process was
continued. After lunch Richardson
threw the ball straight to O’Reilly
for the first over. He took seven
wickets in less than two hours and
the match was won by tea.”
• • • •
The one I like best on McCabe —
even better than Bradman’s “I would
give a great deal to play an innings
like that” after McCabe’s fabulous
232 in the first 1938 Test, or the great
English bowler Syd Barnes’s descrip-
tion of the same innings as “the
greatest he’d ever seen,” not barring
any of Trumper’s—is in Miller and
Whitington’s Bumper: “Recently a
freckle-faced youngster dodged self-
consciously and shyly into McCabe’s
shop carrying an old and disintegrat-
ing bat under his arm. There were
several men talking in the shop. The
lad half-turned to go, taking a look
at his battered blade and another at
the sleekly shining pieces of English
willow with the names of Bradman,
Hutton and Compton branded across
their springs. That old bat of his
had no business being in there . . .
As he was leaving a stocky, bald-
headed man of 40-odd, whose rather
sad blue eyes had lit into a friendly
smile, detached himself from the
group, threw a strong and friendly
arm about the lad’s shoulder. ‘What
can I do for you, sonny? Get that
bat fixed for a century on Saturday?’
‘lf it’s not too broken to mend,’
stammered the youngster. ‘Of course
it isn’t. All the best batsmen hold
on to their favorite bats until they
are hanging together with tape.’ The
freckle-faced youngster walked out
with a smile on his face. Something
about the man with the sad blue eyes
told him his bat was in safe hands.”
“Bookie’s Dog”: Prophesying
in sport is always chancy, but
after watching him against Vic-
toria I’m prepared to forecast
that young N.S.W. batsman
Norm O’Neill will do more to
restore Australian cricket to
popularity than any man has
done since Sir Don retired.
S.A. is lucky in having two
top-class young wicketkeepers,
and will not greatly miss
Langley.-. When Langley missed
two Shield games in 1952-53 by
playing in Tests, his stand-in was
Prospect’s John Ducker, who
did so well that he was spoken
of even then as a possible Test
’keeper. After that Langley
didn’t miss a Shield game till
the first one this year, against
W.A., but a new ’keeping star,
Barry Jarman, of Woodville, had
by then appeared, and he was
“Go easy on the face, Kelly , I’ve got a television
sports-talk tomorrow.”
picked. He was unable to play, so
Ducker got another chance, and
did creditably, not the least with
the bat. So much so that,
though Jarman has got Langley’s
job (and he does seem to have
the edge on Ducker behind the
sticks and seems a certain Test-
player), the Prospect ’keeper is
holding a place in the State side
as a batsman.
• • • •
“Keima”: Queensland spin-
bowler Wal Walmsley, one of
the Central figures in a mild
barracking storm at Sydney
Cricket Ground when an N.S.W.
batsman was given not-out on
appeal for a catch, broke into
Sheffield Shield cricket at an age
when most have retired from it
—if not from any grade of the
game. I haven’t been able to find
out how old he is, but I have
at home an N.S.W. Year Book
for 1933-34 season in which Wal
figures well up in batting and
bowling with Western Suburbs
(Sydney) No. 1 Shires team. He
later played for Wests’ firsts for
many years. His first game with
Queensland —and his first repre-
sentative game was against
Hutton’s touring side (Nov.,
1954), and since then he's more-
or-less been a regular member
of the Queensland team. And,
all round, has earned his place;
he did very well against N.S.W.
with bat and ball.
* * *
“G.A.”: The Wallabies
Olympic Rugby Union team of
1908 was not a combined Aus-
tralian-New Zealand team
(B. 21/11/’56). The winning
team was as follows —P. Car-
michael, C. .Russel, D. B. Carrol,
J. Hickey, F. Bede Smith, A. J.
McCabe, C. McKivatt, T.
Griffen, J. Barnett, P. McCue,
S. Middleton, T. Richards,
M. McArthur, C. McMurtrie and
R. R. Craig. Phil Carmichael
(full-back) and Tom Richards
(breakaway) were from Queens-
land, and the others all from
N. Neither the captain
(Dr. H. M. Moran) nor vice-
captain (Freddie Wood) played
in the game when England was
defeated 32-3. Incidentally, this
was the team for which Ben
Chifley was considered in the
final selection but failed to
clinch a place.
* * *
“Skip”: The bowls “dream
shot” came off in a pennant-
game Devonport v. Penguin
recently. Vic. Priestley had a
toucher in the ditch with No. 1,
and No. 2 carried kitty to the
ditch and all three packed
together, being quite unbeatable.
An almost unheard-of combina-
tion.
* * *
This year’s first big disturbance
was provided in New York’s
Madison Square Garden, where
former welter-champ. “Sugar’'
Ray Robinson (35-year-old;
11.6) stepped in against Utah
scrapper Gene Fullmer (25;
11.3|) in defence of the middle-
weight crown. For “Sugar” the
fight proved, the game’s no longer
the sugar and spice it once was
to him: the challenger bustled
and roughed him into a sorry
points-defeat
As welter-champ., Robinson
was magnificent: he could box ;
he could punch—with both
hands ;he was fast; and he was
a picturesque personality ... a
promoter’s dream. At a time
when there were some capable
exponents about, including Joe
Louis, he was recognised as the
best pound-for-pound fighter in
the world. The fact that this
last defeat was his fifth in
147 engagements is some indica-
tion of his ability to throw
leather. In Fullmer he met a man
who keeps moving in, throwing
punches with a speed that he
relies on to offset the force of
punch he has to take on the
way in. And so he jostled
Robinson out of his famed
combinations; and “Sugar” was
too slow on his pins to effect
a counter.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm. —6445.
To buy copy of “The Bulletirt ’
Reciter. — 6446.
Words of the verse “A Man Is At
His Best Out Fishin’.”--6447.
To buy copy of Stanford’s “Prelude
on a Theme of Tallis. - -6448.
How to dye red calfskin black?
Lamp-black (procurable from
paint-shops), thoroughly mixed with
linseed-oil (on the dry side), can be
rubbed into the leather until the sur-
face is dry, repeating until the
required tint is obtained. Ordinary
black shoe-polish, well rubbed-in,
gives good results; and there are
many good dyes available in the
shops. If the leather has been treated
for some other purpose with
repellents, it may be difficult to make
any impression on it until the sur-
face is cleaned with spirit or petrol.
Worth noting, too, that leather-treat-
ments are usually slightly intractable.
* * * *
How to remove dirty fingerprints
from margins of secondhand-books ?
The fragile nature of paper makes
it difficult to clean: rubbing destroys
it; chemicals placed on it must, if
possible, be removed again. Any
rubbing should always be in the one
direction, so as not to twirl-up the
surface of the paper. Art-gum,
from stationers’ shops, is one of the
first things to try; cut-off its soiled
parts and work very cleanly. Very
stale white bread, with crusts cut
away, is an old and useful cleaner.
For oil-stains or grease: Make a
thick paste of pipeclay and water;
lay it on the stain; leave for 10 or
12 hours; remove with a soft rag;
repeat , until clean. If the paper
is very delicate, use a paste ol
magnesia and benzine. Another
method for removing grease is to
insert the book-page between two
sheets of blotting-paper, and apply a
warm-to-hot iron. For fingermarks:
Pour crystallisable benzol (not
benzine or petrol) on calcined
magnesia until it becomes a crumbling
mass; rub this lightly, on the spots
with a fingertip and brush off. Finish
with a piece of . soft rubber. (Benzol
may be hard to get.) No method
should be first tried on a very good
or rare book: practise on something
of no value. Collectors’ clubs —and
contact with other collectors—provide
useful exchange of information.
* * * *
Is Rouse Hill homestead, built by
Richard Rouse (Service Department,
B. 19! 12T56 ), still standing?
Yes. Rouse Hill House, built by
convict labor in 1815-16, stands on
the crest of a rise, originally called
Vinegar Hill but known now for
more than 90 years as Rouse Hill, on
the main road eight miles on the
Sydney side of Windsor. The home
has a central flag-stoned courtyard,
completely roofed-in and forming an
arcade. From its cellars, with their
solid stone walls, at least 4ft. through,
to the second story, it gives the
impression of defiance —“that time
cannot shake or batter down these
walls.” The old-fashioned wall-
papers are nearly obscured by the
dozens of absorbingly interesting old
pictures on every conceivable subject;
mostly of a historical flavor. A
massive old pump still pumps water
from a well in the arcade. (This
information is from a broadcast in
“These Old Homes” series given by
the Rural Bank, Sydney, in 1941.)
Rouse Hill House is still in the
hands of the Rouse family, being at
present occupied by a great-grand-
daughter of Richard Rouse. The
homestead remains intact, and to
this day contains the original
furniture.
Brief Answers
J.H.G.: Any tenant can leave the
remainder of his tenancy to his heir
by will; but if the tenancy is only
from week to week what he will leave
will depend on the agreement between
the testator and the landlord. Long-
term tenancies are often left by will,
but there are practical difficulties in
the way of short ones L.L.L.: A
“Brief Answer” to the query pre-
viously appeared; but here we go
again: The word “received,” as
you say, is not used in its physical
sense —discussion on i.t is itself
acknowledgment of its having been
received; but at council meetings a
letter may be “not received” although
it has been received in the physical
sense. Since the letter must be “not
received” by motion, there must be
a record of it in the minutes. There
is probably no legal necessity to
carry a formal resolution that inward
correspondence be received before
taking any action on it. The council’s
action merely brands the correspond-
ence “untouchable.” It is an auto-
matic defensive process A.C.S.:
“Britain, An Official Handbook, ’
from the U.K. Information Office at
422 Collins-street, Melbourne, or the
Sydney office at 39 Martin-place.
There is no office in Adelaide....
A.K.A.: That need not always follow.
P.R.; No A.R. : William Lee
Martin was N.Z. Minister of Agri-
culture from 1935 (beginning with the
Savage Ministry) till 1941 (which
took-in part of the Holland Ministry),
when he retired D.P.T.: (1) The
First Secretary for Scotland was
appointed in 1885 in recognition of
the fact that Scotland required a
separate system of administration
from that of England and Wales. In
1926 all the powers and duties
attached to the office were transferred
by the Secretaries of State Act to a
principal Secretary of State. The
functions of the Secretary of State,
who is assisted at Ministerial level by
a Minister of State, three
Parliamentary Under-Secretaries and
the Scottish Law Officers, are dis-
charged by four main administrative
departments of equal status —Scottish
Home Department, Department of
Health for Scotland, Scottish Educa-
tion Department, Department of Agri-
culture for Scotland —each under' a
secretary responsible to the Secretary
for State. (2) A Royal. Commission
on Scottish Affairs, appointed in 1952
to review “the arrangements tor
exercising the functions of H
Majesty’s Government in relation to
Scotland,” reported in 1954 that the
existing organisation of bcottisn
administration was working satis-
factorily. Following the commission s
recommendations, the Government
decided that responsibility in Scotland
for roads, appointment of justices ot
the peace, and animal health (apart
from control of epidemic-diseases) be
transferred from other Ministers to
the Secretary of State for Scotland.
"He must he hungry."
Information Sought
Words of the old “Bulletin” verse
called “The Shoe" ?
Battered and worn on the wayside lay
A shoe, unseen by the busy throng
Of passers who, through the dusty way,
From mom to eve had hurried along.
The sight of that shoe to me has brought
A host of fancies, merry and sad.
Of a heart that struggled and toiled and
wrought,
With never an hour of its life made glad.
Of a joyous and happy and winsome maid,
With mind all free from thought of guile;
Of a soul with sin’s black sorrows lade,
Of a face that n’er was lit by a smile.
Had the shoe been worn, by any of these ?
Was the wearer of it young or fair ?
The answer is one, I hope, will please-
It was torn from the hoof of old Brown s
mare.
J. M. h.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should,
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
G. 8.: Its main fault is
the monotony of the refrain;
but there are others A.C.:
Don’t tell us you stopped
whatever agricultural instrument you
were steering to write that harrowing
poem... .C.D.H.: It is a mysterious
mixture composed of sirens’ voices,
tortuous doubts, flowers, lovers eyes,
a waterfall, and a bubble which
bursts —apparently out of pure spite.
.H.McG.: Nine impassioned
pages on the advisability of repainting
the Sydney Harbor Bridge! Your
trouble is lack of compression....
W.W.: Dying swagman poem
declined with the utmost cheerfulness.
. .F. 8.: What a reckless user ot
words you are! Did you inherit a
dictionary?... ,T.P.: Thirteen rather
wooden stanzas about a dead gum-
trek The last .line of the sixth
stanza is an appalling obstacle for any
tongue to surmount....
GH W ■ Merely the old familiar
sunset 'jingle, rather the worse for
wear.... T.L.A.: Rhymed common-
places. The whole poem might profit-
ably be boiled down to the statement
that the swagman needs a new pair
of boots... .E.P.: Your shearing-shed
is too much like a hundred other
sheds L.M.: “I Will Repay is
such a wild, jagged, bloodthirsty
poem, and so full of knives and
threats, that we hesitate to say
anything harsh about it... .T.S.W. .
Have known that plot from 75 years.
Shook hands with it, and told it to
make itself at home in the basket. It
immediately took off its boots and
turned in like an old soak home after
a day’s pub-crawl H.D.: lne
cheap and lazy device of repeating the
same phrase twice merely to fill-up
the fine is the trade-mark of the
threadbare poet. Counted 0ut....
B W.: Practically it is a rhymed state-
ment to the effect that there is nothing
better at any time of the year than
a pint of beer —unless it be two pints
of beer, or a barrel. This has been
said many timfes before with more or
less vehemence by better poets than
yourself....B.F.D.: “Tibooburra is
an infernally dry poem; but. it
managed to trickle as far as the
wicker receptacle... .J.C.D.: lne
Angel’s Message” will not be delivered
through these columns K. 8.: Tw °
poems' received —one about a hat and
the other about Pat—whose other
name was Casey. Both treated with
scorn ....M.F.: Deeply grate-
ful to you, Mick, and the poem shall
rest next pur heart until it (the poem)
is worn out. Our old chest-protector
was about done, anyway... .A.M.G.:
Poem beginning “Hurrah! Hurrah.
Thou sunny day blest!” hurriedly
wrapped-up in the envelope you so
thoughtfully provided and sent home.
It is a cheery summertime whoop, but
worthless from a literary point of
view 8.P.: Six sheets of first-class
foolscap ruined M.J.S.: .“The
Lady’s Help” is unnecessarily violent
in the last verse, and not very capti-
vating or capable in first and second.
Discharged her without a refer-
ence ....H.V.: Why did you mark
only one line “rotten”? There are 20
lines in the poem... .L. 8.5.: Tour
poem entitled “Life” is composed ol
one or two bald-headed remarks and
a bit of dog-eared advice, and a
few obscure observations of your
own tacked 0n... .L.D.: An old, old
topic and a green young pen....
5.M.8.: Painstaking work, but it
never quite struggles out of the rut,
and is lacking in force and finish.
OLD BORE'S ALMANACK FOR 1957
Jan.: A man from Memphis
(Term.) will get a divorce on the
grounds of mental cruelty, after
adducing evidence that his wife
refused to use a beer-flavored lipstick
he had developed. In a speech at a
diplomatic reception Khrushchev will
refer to Stalin as “that megalo-
maniacal louse who should have been
cracked between the thumbs of the
Bolshevik Old Guard before he could
become a mass-murderer of the
workers.” For three consecutive days
a Sydney afternoon-paper’s poster
will fail to carry the word “horror,’
and there will be a major editorial
shake-up. Egyptian mobs will burn
trams and buses and blow-up one ot
their own banks in support of a
Down - with - Britain campaign
inaugurated by Colonel Nasser.
Manufacturers of a new-type nylon
stocking will claim that it is quite
impossible for anyone to tell whether
the wearer has them on or not. The
Kohl Rabi Board will be formed in
Queensland to “develop the potential
of this nutritious vegetable and
popularise it.”
Feb. : To offset losses due to con-
tinued passenger - resistance to
increased fares the N.S.W. Transport
Dept, will begin its campaign to
economise on fuel by limiting to halt-
capacity loads during peak-hours so
as to lighten bus-weight. The ethical-
committee of the U.L.V.A. will
refuse hotelkeepers permission to use
saxophonists as entertainers unless the
instrument can be made to function
by sucking instead of blowing. After
honoring the 17th toast in vodka at a
reception to U Bum, the Burmese
Plenipotentiary -at - Large, Nikita
Khrushchev will laud Stalin as that
noble hater of Imperialist warmongers
and plutocratic greed.” Counsel in
a Melbourne court-case will opine
that the witness “hasn’t a clue,” and
the presiding judge will ask him to
elucidate the phrase A Sydney
suburban train will break-down
during a journey and the stranded
passengers will not have to wait more
than 45 minutes before the guard tells
them how long they are likely to be
stuck there.
Mar • The Queensland Kohl Rabi
Board will announce that it will spend
£2O 000 on research to develop akoni
rabi’ of a color “more acceptable to
the housewife.” The adjudicator of
the children’s-elocution section ot an
eisteddfod will be found gibbering in
a corridor during the luncheon-recess
and will be taken to the Reception
House. Two youths will crash a stolen
car into a brick wall during an 80-
m.p.h. chase by police and they will
walk out of the wreckage unharmed.
The N.S.W. Council of Churches will
pass its annual resolution protesting
against the holding of the Royal Show
on Good Friday, and the Chief
Secretary will promise to give it
“sympathetic consideration.”
Apl. : New records will be set for
attendances at the Royal Show on
Good Friday. The producer of the
film “The Incandescent Kiss” will
have to seek hospital treatment for
blisters on his back caused by his
prolonged vigorous slapping of it
following condemnation of the film
by church authorities and other
public bodies as “a shocking affront
to decency.” Pierre Balmain will
introduce the “Downpipe Look” as
a new dress-style; spokesmen for
several Australian women’s organisa-
tions will make the comment that the
“laughable style will certainly be
scorned by women in this country.”
Dr. Evatt will become first president
of the Egyptian Freedom and Self-
determination Society. The first of
Jane Russell’s three “vital statistics”
will drop by half-an-inch, and her
press-agent will describe it as “a
disaster of the first magnitude.”
A Q.C. will use the term “kept
woman,” and a women’s organisation
will issue a strong protest against
“this barbarous description of a de
facto wife.”
May : Australian couturiers will
describe as “phenomenal” the demand
by women for frocks in the new
“Downpipe Look.” Khrushchev, in
a speech commemorating the inven-
tion by early Russian scientists of the
French horn, will refer to Stalin as
“a blood-soaked monster, a wife-
murderer and an . undercover
Imperialist agent.” A 97-year-old
co-respondent of a sensational
divorce in Jacksonville (Fla.) will be
paid 22,000 dollars to appear in the
biggest television hook-up in history.
In an exclusive interview with “Week-
End” a Sydney gunman will say that
the proudest moment of his career
war> when an afternoon-paper referred
to a routine safe-cracking job he did
as a “daring exploit.” The Queens-
land Kohl Rabi Board will launch
a £15,000 publicity-campaign to
popularise the kohlrabi in pasties
instead of meat. In an economy-
drive N.S.W. Railways will close-
down dozens of suburban stations
during off-peak hours, supplying
buses to take passengers from those
stations to those where trains stop.
June: The N.S.W. Railways Com-
missioner will express surprise at the
continued lack of goodwill shown by
the travelling public towards the rail-
ways. The chairman of the Queens-
land Meat Board will make a strong
attack on the chairman of the Kohl
Rabi Board over the campaign to use
the vegetable instead of beef in
pasties. Over 100 men will make an
all-night search in bitter weather of
thick scrub-country in the Blue
Mountains searching for a young
hiker reported lost; when found next
morning playing tennis at a near-by
guest-house, where he had stayed the
night with a friend, he will express
annoyance at the “silly action of
some panic-merchants.” A radio-
comedian will put over a brand-new
gag. Khrushchev, in a speech to the
Presidium, will praise Stalin for his
“devotion to the sacred cause of peace
and his iron-willed determination to
root-out internal enemies by the
purge.” A famous milliner will cause
a sensation by introducing a woman’s
hat that looks like a woman’s hat.
July: Egyptian mobs will dynamite
several ancient monuments and
priceless relics to prevent their being
enjoyed by hated British and French
tourists. The Queensland Kohl Rabi
Board will pay £5OOO to the winner
of its slogan-competition, and the
chairman will praise the originality of
the entry: “Kohl Rabis Are Kute.”
An M.P. will ydislocate his jaw yawn-
ing while listening to a debate on the
fiscal policy of the Government. A
Melbourne football-referee will set
new world times for the 100yds. while
escaping from enraged spectators.
Khrushchev will declare that the new
Kremlin policy of “brotherly
benevolence towards the satellite
peoples has resulted in an
extraordinary upsurge of affection
towards Russia.” There will be rain
with hail and some wind; and each
of the four Sydney dailies will
describe it as “a freak storm.” Colonel
Nasser will obtain from the U.S.
under Lend-lease large supplies of a
new-type running-shoe with a special
non-skid-tread sole so as to give his
infantry “greater mobility.”
Aug. : Large-scale anti-Russian
riots will break out in Poznan,
Zagreb, Budapest, Gdynia, Prague
and Stettin. Horatio Nelson, the
owner of a large block of flats in
Brisbane, will defend a court action;
his inability to speak English in the
witness-box will lead to the disclosure
that he adopted the name on
naturalisation, he being a Pole with
the natal name of Witoldinocz
Mckzyzchunsxwz. A Hollywood star
on getting a divorce from her seventh
husband will marry his father. The
House of Lords will debate whether a
half-inch of guipure-lace visible on the
edge of pantees worn by a model on
a poster advertising floor-polish is
“contrary to public morals.” Extra
police will be needed to disperse the
crowd gathered outside a Melbourne
pawnshop hanging in the window of
which is a bookie’s-bag. In a speech
at Warsaw Khrushchev will describe
Stalin as a “scrofulous traitor who
stabbed his friends in the back.”
Sept. : Elvis the Pelvis will take a
few singing-lessons, which he will
abandon after his alarmed manager
expresses the fear that any
improvement in his vocal chords
might spell ruin for them both. The
chairman of the Queensland Kohl
Rabi Board will disclose that the
first six months of the board’s market-
ing-operations resulted in a loss of
£52,000. In a speech to young Com-
munists Khrushchev will praise the
“selfless, dedicated work by Stalin the
Great of building a regimented
nation in which the State was the
supreme arbiter of life and the only
employer.” During a beauty-contest
at Dallas (Tex.) a 17-year-old blonde
competitor will cause a sensation
when she appears wearing only one
half of her Bikini, and she will be
swamped with offers of long-term
film- and television-contracts. Colonel
Nasser will expropriate the assets of
several British firms in Cairo and
will declare that proceeds of their
sale will be used to give pensions to
all the city’s postcard-sellers and
beggars.
Oct. : The Texan blonde who
caused a sensation by appearing in a
beauty-contest in only one half of her
Bikini will marry an 82-year-old
Pennsylvanian oil-king, and she will
disclose at the wedding-reception that
it was a case of “love at first sight.”
Khrushchev will refer to Stalin in a
speech as “that quarter-witted
destroyer of everything Lenin had
built up.” The Queensland Kohl
Rabi Board will launch a new
publicity campaign to popularise the
kohlrabi by staging an open-air
ballet, in which the Sleeping Beauty
is brought back to life with an elixir
distilled from pressure-cooked kohl
rabi. A fisherman at a Gold Coast
tourist-resort will sneeze his top-set
overboard from a dinghy, and it will
not be found inside the next fish he
hooks. A former director of Murder,
Inc., who has at least 17 killings to
his credit, will be given his first jail-
sentence for calling a Bowery cop a
“big slob.”
Nov.: In a speech at a reception
to welcome the new Chinese Minister
for Kite-flying, Hoo Me, Khrushchev
will refer to Stalin’s “superb sense
of the diplomatic fitness of things,
and will disclose that he once said to
Khrushchev, “We should cultivate the
Chows, even though they take
umbrellas and goldfish into battle.
N.S.W. Premier Cahill will let it leak
out on Melbourne Cup Day, when
attention is not on State finances,
that the combined railway and trans-
port deficits are now expected to be
more than seven-million more than
his estimates. A new Friendship Pact
will be signed between Yugoslavia and
Russia. A Sydney afternoon-paper
will publish a photo of several
flappers on the beach at Bondi with-
out using the caption “Peeling belles.
Dec.: Stalingrad will be renamed
Khrushchevgrad. A sensation will be
caused with the disclosure that among
the 10 best-dressed women named
for the year will be one who has a
dress-allowance of less than 20,000
dollars. The Queensland Kohl Rabi
Board will announce plans to acquire
a large new building for its opera-
tions, and it will be revealed that the
chairman’s salary will be increased
by £l5OO per annum. The board
will also spend a further £lO,OOO on
research to evolve a climbing sport
of the vegetable to eliminate the
necessity of bending while harvesting.
A doctor will suggest that depart-
mental-store Santa Clauses should in
the interests of hygiene be clean-
shaven. All Sydney bus-crews will
cease Work at midnight on New
Year’s Eve, and the union will inform
the Government that this will be
standard practice in future, as the
crews are entitled to join the
festivities “the same as any of the
more privileged sections of the
community.”
BO.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SON
JA
OSUHJY/Vtt
pmnx
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London. New York
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cable ;
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1818.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C■ LEWIS (Chairman). f. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
4 r ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS.
a. o. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches In all States. Agencies in all Country Centres.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOVIET PROBLEMS
p VENTS in Hungary have set-
_ off many press-interpreta-
tions of signs of internal stress in
the U.S.S.R., one of the most
interesting coming from
Alexandre Metaxas, a Russian-
speaking French journalist “able
to pass in Russia as a Russian,”
and who has spent a consider-
able time in Sovietland.
Writing in London “Sunday
Times,” Metaxas assesses the
Hungarian revolt as marking
“the beginning of the end. of
Soviet Communism.”
The Russian people, he main-
tains, do not readily accept their
leaders’ assertions of outside
encirclement, and henceforth
“the Kremlin has to reckon with
200-million Russians ill-disposed
to follow blindly directives that
are barren of commonsense.”
The main forces with which
the regime will have to contend
are Russian youth—they have
“forgotten, or never known, the
ideological aspect [of Com-
munism] and see only the abuses
and excesses of a super-
bureaucracy”—and the peasantry
and the Army. The (Russian
population, Metaxas notes,
includes 120-million peasants,
against whom the Government
cannot afford to take even “the
most modest punitive expedition”
to force them to increase pro-
duction, while the Soviet Army
is made up of about 90 per cent,
sons of peasants.
The Army, particularly
irritated by errors in Hungary,
“has the impression of having
had its hand forced,” and,
although it would have preferred
t© y have kept out of direct
involvement in politics, it “feels
more and more that the hour
approaches when it will be
obliged to take up its responsi-
bilities.” This, Metaxas suggests,
could mean Marshal Zhukov—
“the only man respected in
Russia”—taking power into his
own hands and resuming
Malenkov’s theme of
“liberalisation.”
The youth of Russia, who
fought valiantly for their country
and not particularly for the
existing regime, was wearied by
the too-great demands made on
it for post-war reconstruction of
Russia and “fell into apathy.”
<t 1 oday, ,! Metaxas comments,
‘ anyone who talks to young
Russians of no matter what
social category will quickly con-
clude that the new deal of
Russian youth is Freedom”:
“Freedom, that is to say, with
all that the word implies in its
positive, material sense:
freedom to choose your work,
freedom to travel in and outside
the U.S.S.R., freedom to trade as
you please ; freedom, above all,
of enterprise.”
These young people, Metaxas
concludes, represent “the most
terrible of all dangers for the
Kremlin” :
“As the stalwarts of the old
regime die off, with them will
go the last memories of Stalin
the Terrible. The regime will
come to seem as obsolete as was
that of the Tsars before its death-
agonies: Young Russia will have
passed it by.”
* * *
Further press-comment on the
Soviet’s difficulties:
Edward Crankshaw, in Edin-
burgh “Scotsman ” : “So far as
the Soviet Union is concerned,
the events of the past two
London "Daily Moit"
"IF WE PLAY OUR CARDS RIGHT, EXCELLENCY, WE OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO
NATIONALISE A HANDY LITTLE SALVAGE FLEET ISoN " °
months have added-up to far
more than a setback ; they have
achieved the total destruction of
a line of policy which has served
the Kremlin well for decades,
and by which the Soviet leader-
ship has consistently orientated
its major decisions since the time
of Lenin.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “What-
ever may happen to the
Hungarians, they have dealt the
Russians a damaging blow. If
their resistance had been snuffed-
out in a few days, the free world
would have made its protests and
turned back to its affairs, while
Communists in Prague* Belgrade,
Rome and Peking would have
swallowed the myth of a
counter - revolutionary terror
nipped in the bud by timely
Soviet intervention.
“But the Hungarians’ refusal
to submit has rubbed everyone’s
noses in their struggle for
freedom and forced the Russians
into a classic demonstration of a
self-defeating policy. In the
West, it has re-awakened Nato
to the need for vigilance and
saved it from the waste of time
and strength in recriminations
over Suez. In the uncommitted
countries of Asia it must hinder
the Russians’ busy efforts to
extend their influence and
control; the equivocal attitudes
of some of those countries
towards Hungary become more
blatantly untenable the longer
the resistance lasts.”
* * *
London “New Statesman” :
“The Soviet Union can no
longer count on the armies of
its allies ; it cannot even count
on using their territory as a safe
forward base. If the Russian
Army were to be withdrawn
from Eastern Europe, the
regimes which depend upon its
tanks would break-up. The
withdrawal would not be a token
departure. It would be total
and effective.
“It is this prospect, of course,
that has frightened the Russian
leaders into the savage reassertion
of their overlordship in Hungary.
If they had allowed Hungary to
slip from their grasp, the rest of
Eastern Europe might well have
followed the lead of the people
of Budapest, and the Soviet
empire in Europe would have
been lost —and lost without any
entry on the credit side of the
ledger.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide” : “A
real psychosis of weakness is
evident among the Kremlin
leaders. They see dangers every-
where, and in order to make a
show against the West they must
prove themselves strong, or at
least try to weaken their
Western opponents.
“As long as the men of the
Kremlin can float on the waves
of disturbances which they them-
selves create they can keep their
heads above water. But if the
world should become more
stable, and if they were to lose
some of their ill-gotten gains in
East Europe, their authoritarian
power would ebb rapidly.”
* * *
Harry Schwartz, in “New York
Times”: “Obviously within the
Communist bloc there is now
more open disunity and graver
problems than at any time since
1949, if not earlier. Moscow has
had to admit mistakes in its
policy toward the satellites and
to make concessions whose cost,
economically and politically, is
not minor.”
“New York Times” editorial
comment: “Essentially two
basic issues face the Soviet
leadership now. The first is in
the area of domestic policy, and
flows over into policy toward
Eastern Europe. The issue is
simply whether the relaxation
of domestic and satellite controls
ordered last February is to be
continued or reversed. This is
the issue observers have in mind
when they speculate about a
possible return to Stalinism.
“It can hardly be doubted that
many Soviet higher-ups feel that
recent Russian troubles at home
and in Eastern Europe have
arisen because changes were
made in the late dictator’s harsh
pattern of rule. Power-hungry
bureaucrats interested in pre-
serving their own privileges
undoubtedly argue that the
unrest among students and
workers at home, and the
October revolutions in Poland
and Hungary, threaten the very
existence of Soviet rule.
“For them the answer is to
return to the ‘idyllic’ days when
both Soviet citizens and Eastern
Europeans lived in such com-
plete fear that they dared not
even express what they thought
and felt, let alone act upon those
feelings and thoughts. But even
these bureaucrats cannot ignore
the danger of provoking new
convulsions if they try to
"isr aU - out
“Related to this first issue is
the second: Should the Cold
War be resumed in all its former
fury? From the point of view of
the Soviet bureaucracy the Cold
War had the great advantage
that its core idea, the alleged
threat of nuclear attack from the
w as ?e imphei, justiflea-
S^T' P^J“m6 t
S,aiin ' s death ”
U.N.O. Critics
British press-criticisms of
U.N.0., occasioned by that
organisation’s action over Egypt
and inaction over Hungary:
London “Spectator”: “The
impotence of the United Nations
is not surprising. Dealing with
a powerful State that does not
care twopence either for world
or internal opinion, the General
Assembly can only pass in-
effectual resolutions. For effec-
tive restraining action the U.N.
needs half-convinced aggressors,
and it found them in the shape
of France and Britain during the
Suez expedition. Confronted by
Russian intransigence, the
Hungarian Foreign Minister
walking out of the debate, and
the Secretary-General’s visit to
Budapest being cancelled with
the greatest discourtesy, nothing
can be done. International
attention has also Been distracted
by Suez, and Mr. Nehru’s
strange determination to regard
the massacre of Hungarians as
a minor incident compared with
military operations against Egypt
also weakened the one moral
force which might have
restrained the Russians the
opinion of .the ‘uncommitted’
States.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
The League of Nations never
failed quite as miserably as this.
It at least imposed sanctions on
Mussolini, even if they were
ineffective. But the United
Nations has done nothing but
protest. It has neither expelled
the Soviet Union, which still
remains a member in good
standing under the Charter, able
and willing, when the occasion
next arises, to lend its name to
the so-called pool of moral force
that the General Assembly is
supposed to represent; nor has
it made any other effort, except
in words, to punish the aggressor.
It has proved itself totally in-
effective—a moral farce rather
than a moral force.”
* * *
“L ondon Daily Mail”:
“Hungary has shown that U.N.O.
is in the gravest difficulty when
faced with the kind of murderous
aggression which leads to the
wars it exists to prevent. It
works only with nations who
give it authority by accepting its
authority. Britain and France are
such nations. If they had
repudiated U.N.O. as Russia has
done, Egypt would today have
been an occupied country and
the canal would be in* their
possession.
“They did no such thing. They
obeyed the iaw. They quickly
accepted a proposal that a
U.N.O. force should be formed
and should take over from them
when it was competent to do so,
and this is what is happening.
“One would think that our
two countries, having lent
influence and prestige to U.N.O.
by accepting its wishes, would
receive some consideration. The
reverse is the case.
“The utmost consideration,
however, has so far been shown
to Colonel Nasser, who has defied
U,N.O. throughout. Nothing
U.N.O. has asked of him has
been granted, and nothing he has
demanded seems to have been
denied him.’’
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“Every day the futility of that
body [U.N.O.] is heightened by
the grim march of events in
Hungary—which U.N.O. shows
itself utterly unable to influence,
let alone restrain.
“And at the rate U.N.O. is
going about clearing the Suez
Canal, the chances seem to be
little better that it will make
much of an impression on that
situation either.
“What about the cost? General
Wheeler [U.N.O.’s salvage chief]
says that U.N.O. wilt pay. In
other words, U.N.O. members
—like Britain.
“Think of it! Britain asked to
pay for making good Nasser’s
damage! ”
Cyprus
Commenting on the proposed
Constitution for Cyprus drawn
up by Lord Radcliffe, London
“Daily Mail” notes that it is the
fourth in 25 years the old
Constitution was suspended
during the anti-British riots in
1931 ; another, offered in 1548,
was rejected by the Cypriots;
and a third (in 1954) was also
turned down.
These previous Constitutions,
the “Daily Mail” adds, were
refused because “self-
government, which we [Britain]
offer, is not self-determination,
which we will not concede
except at some unspecified future
date”:
“If self-determination were
granted the majority [of
Cypriots] would at once vote to
join Greece. This, Britain says,
cannot be permitted, partly for
strategical reasons, but mainly
because. Turkey would not allow
the island to fall into Greek
hands.
“That is the deadlock, and the
new Constitution does not alter
it in any fundamental way. But
it can be claimed, perhaps, that
it does appear under rather
better auspices than the last one.
“As a gesture of goodwill the
harsh emergency laws in Cyprus
have been modified. The pledge
of self-determination, though
vague, is at least reiterated. And
Archbishop Makarios is being
consulted on the proposals.
“The Constitution itself pro-
vides a generous measure of
self - government. Both the
Governor and the Assembly
would be free to make laws in


**
■am
f ,rn- *
iDummq says .
IVn tough on Clothes
but STAMINA clothes are tougher.”
‘‘That’s because I outgrow my Stamina clothes
before I outwear them. Seems like you just can't
wear them out.
“Daddy wears Stamina, too. He says they
make their clothes from pure,
all-wool Crusader Cloth and
that lasts for ages and ages.
You have never seen a sheep
with a worn-out coat, have you ?
There’s nothing tougher than
pure wool.”
s*>
SVRIBIi
FOR
Stamina
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
8W2.113
London "Daily Express ”
“BUT, GENTLEMEN, IF YOU COMMIT A CRIME, YOU MUST COMMIT A BIG ONE!”
their own spheres without inter-
ference from the British Govern-
ment.”
Lord Radcliffe, London
“Economist” adds, has been
ingenious “in devising methods
of soothing-out possible points
of friction”:
“The first concerns the
dividing-line that will constantly
have to be drawn between the
powers reserved to the Governor
and those reserved to the Legis-
lative Assembly ; he points out
that some matters, such as
immigration, will sometimes
affect defence and internal
security and sometimes not. He
hopes that by the device of a
Joint Council of Cyprus, in
which both the Governor and the
Cypriot Ministers can fully and
freely discuss their plans, it will
be possible to avoid the
suspicion that largely arises out
of ‘each side’s ignorance of
what the other is up to.’
“The second important point
of friction is the position of the
Turkish minority. Lord Rad-
cliffe rightly rejects the demand
that 18 per cent, of the island’s
population should have equal
representation with the Greek 80
per cent. But he is confident that
the guarantees offered to the
Turkish minority are no mere
‘paper’ guarantees. They include
a provision that six out of the
24 elected seats in the Assembly
will be reserved for the Turks,
the consent of four of whom
will be necessary for any legisla-
tion affecting Turkish laws,
customs and institutions.
“If Lord Radcliffe’s Constitu-
tional gadgets could have been
put to work in a calm and
auspicious atmosphere, Cyprus
might really be on the way to a
solution.”
There are signs, in London
“Daily Telegraph’s” view, that
“mood and atmosphere” are
changing for the better and “may
offer a rather more hopeful
prospect of Constitutional
development than when negoti-
ations with Archbishop Makarios
broke-down earlier this year”:
“Chief among these changes
is the increasing revulsion of
Cypriots against terrorism, and
their growing certainty that
Eoka will be stamped-out, how-
ever long it takes. The Arch-
bishop’s undoubted awareness
of these feelings may make it
easier for him now to utter the
condemnation of violence which
would open the way for his
return and participation in the
Constitutional developments. He
is wisely being given every
opportunity to study and discuss
Lord Radcliffe’s draff, but quite
properly not being treated as a
‘negotiator.’ ”
To which Edinburgh “Scots-
man” adds: “Without the Arch-
bishop’s blessing self-govern-
ment is not likely to be
launched”:
“Mr. Lennox-Boyd is, in
effect, consulting the Archbishop,
although he draws the line at
negotiation. If Makarios could
see his way to appeal for an
end of terrorism, the British
Government might respond by
allowing him to return to
Cyprus, and, in that event, there
would be reason to hope for a
fresh start.”
Uranium Prospects
World uranium - production,
summed-up by the scientific
correspondent of London
“Financial Times”:
U.S.A.: Largest producer in
the free world, mining about
three-million tons of ore for
about 2500 tons of uranium
metal, produced mainly in New
Mexico, with other major
deposits in Utah, Colorado,
Arizona, Wyoming and Washing-
ton.
Canada: Will shortly overtake
the U.S. as the free world’s
greatest producer, and will pro-
duce about 4000 tons of uranium
metal from five-million tons of
ore. By 1958 Canada will be
producing about half the free-
world production of uranium-
-12,500 tons of metal from 15-
million tons of ore.
The U.S.S.R. and satellites:
Between 3000 and 4000 tons of
metal, equivalent to about 3|-
to 44-million tons of ore, pro-
duced mainly from four centres
—East European mountain
region, Northern Siberia,
southern Central Siberia and
Kamchatka Peninsula. Expected
to increase to about 10,000 tons
of metal by the end of 1958 or
early 1959.
South Africa: No figures, but
expected to run close to U.S.
production in 1957-58.
Australia: “Australian pro-
duction of uranium will also be
building-up steadily during this
period (1957-58), but Australia
can never expect, according to
present prospecting and geologi-
cal indications, to become one
of the three major uranium-
producers of the world, although
it will certainly be among the
first five or six major uranium-
producing countries within the
next two or three years.”
South America: A potential
major source—Canadian mining-
engineer F. R. Joubin has fore-
cast that South America could
draw equal with the U.S. by
1957. Brazil has the world’s
largest known deposits of
thorium, the alternative atomic
fuel.
Commenting editorially, the
“Financial Times” notes that
“any attempt to estimate the
future balance of supply and
demand is still premature”:
“The uranium - industry is
already old enough to have gone
through periods dominated by
fears of overproduction and
other periods when the chief fear
has been of scarcity. An estimate
earlier in the year put the demand
for uranium metal for military
purposes at 10,000-15,000 tons a
year and the demand for generat-
ing purposes at another 10,000
tons in 20 years’ time.
“The equivalent in uranium
ore of 25,000 tons of uranium
metal is difficult to work out
precisely, because so much
depends on the quality of the
ore. But a reasonably cautious
estimate would put the figure at
about 13-million tons. There
is no reason to think that it
would be necessary to open-up
relatively inaccessible sources to
maintain an output of that level.
“The future supply-and-
demand situation is dominated
by at least three important
uncertainties:
“Military demands can be
affected by technical changes in
the defence-programme, by a
slowing-down of the stockpiling
of uranium bombs, or, it may
not be too optimistic to hope,
by some kind of international
agreement.
“The second uncertainty is
connected with advances which
may be made in the application
of atomic energy to the produc-
tion of power. Some of the
reactors under construction will
‘breed’ their own supplies of
fissionable products and they
will not consume so niuch
uranium. The exact nature of the
reactors yet to be constructed
will have a very definite bearing
on the demand for uranium.
“Ip the more distant future,
the whole picture might, oif
course, be transformed if some
economic way were found of
applying the fusion process that
goes on in the hydrogen-bomb
to peaceful purposes.
“The third uncertainty is con-
nected with the speed of develop-
ment of the energy-programme.
While technical factors may tend
in the long run to reduce uranium
consumption, acceleration of the
change to nuclear generation in
Western Europe and elsewhere
would tend to increase it.’
Various Voices
U.S. Senator Styles Bridges:
“Firstly, we [the U.S.] need a
foreign policy that the American
people can understand. Secondly,
one that our friends can under-
stand. But, thirdly, and more
than, anything else, we need one
which our enemies can under-
stand.”
Viscount Hailsham, First Lord
of the Admiralty : “We hear too
little of duty nowadays, and too
much about expediency, and
when we hear of duty we hear it
mocked too much. But I make
so bold as to say that the
spectacle of a man, the
spectacle of a Government, the
spectacle of a party, the spectacle
of a nation doing its duty simply
and solely because it believes it
to be its duty, is the one
exatpple which the world needs
most today, and it is the one
thing in the long run which will
command respect; and, I must
add, which in the long run will
command love too. It will not be
for the first time that Britain
has been condemned at the time
for action which in the long run
proved beneficial to the world.’


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Unhonored Dead
What a drab reflection on Australians’
sense of decency, not to mention respon-
sibility, is the condition of numbers of
historic graveyards in various parts.
Two particular examples of neglect are
St. John’s at Parramatta and St. Thomas’s
at North Sydney. Each of these cemeteries
contains many graves of historic figures,
and each is in a shocking condition.
A protest on the point was made in a
Sydney newspaper recently, whereupon a
spokesman for the Church of England,
after admitting the impeachment, pleaded
lack of funds. Personally, I find it hard
to believe that the C. of E. is so short of
cash that it can’t afford the outlay, rela-
tively small, that is needed to do the
decent thing and remove this blot.
In any event, if clerics and other
officials had a sense of history, or a real
sense of responsibility in this matter, they
would organise working-bees to get the
jobs done free of cost. A few Saturdays
of well-directed work by Boy Scouts and
other active parties would make all the
difference.
No funds! Imagine the effect of that
excuse on the ghosts of certain forthright
fellows of other days—among them
D’Arcy Wentworth, Samuel Marsden,
Robert Campbell and John Blaxland —
who are among “the unhonored dead” in
St. John’s!
Indeed, I suspect that if it were possible
to get in touch with two pioneering
parsons, Sam Marsden of St. John’s and
W. B. Clarke of St. Thomas’s, their views
on this subject would shake all the
lethargy out of their successors.
St. John’s dates back to 1790. St.
Thomas’s, though much younger, also
contains many historic graves—including
one of an Egyptian king. At least that
latter information was given me by a
couple of youngsters recently. Seeing
me looking around, the lads inquired-what
grave I Wanted to find, and when that
matter was adjusted they volunteered to
show me the tomb of “an Egyptian king.”
“Yes,” one youngster said when I
expressed doubt, “it must be an Egyptian
king ’cause it’s got a pyramid over it, like
they have in Egypt.”
And then the lads led me (as I should
have guessed they would) to the pyramid-
like tomb of Alexander Berry. Actually,
if Berry was not precisely an Egyptian he
was a “king” of sorts —the wealthy “King
of Shoalhaven” —and, shortly before his
death in 1845, he established St. Thomas’s
graveyard, there setting-up an imposing
family tomb and transferring to it the
remains of his brother-in-law and partner,
Edward Wollstonecraft.
Now the Berry tomb is badly over-
grown and almost in ruins—a sad reflec-
tion on the Church to which the area
was donated, and incidentally on the
respective centres that bear the names of
Berry and Wollstonecraft.
The same point obtains in regard to the
grave of William Lithgow (1784-1864),
first Auditor-General of N. S. Wales ; it
is no credit at all to the city that bears
his name.
Other historic graves in St. Thomas’s
include those of Major John Ovens and
Judge Ellis Bent (noth transferred from
other spots), Captain Owen Stanley (after
whom the New Guinea range was named),
Conrad Martens the artist, and Commo-
dore J. G. Goodenough and his men who
died from the effects of poisoned arrows
inflicted by natives of Santa Cruz in
1875. Oddly, the inscription on the lofty
memorial to Goodenough has faded
badly, whereas the lettering on the smaller
stones commemorating his sailors is still
quite legible.
Is it too much to suggest that, pending
a general clean-up, the tombs of certain
eminent men of other days should be
tended by the centres that bear their
names, and that various others be
similarly tended by institutions to which
they belonged? Should not, for
example, the graves of Ovens and Bent
be under the care of the State Govern-
ment and those of Stanley and Good-
enough be tended by the Navy?
Surely, too, this principle should obtain
in regard to other sadly-neglected graves
in St. Thomas’s, among them that of
William Calder, whose tomb was erected
in 1877 by his colleagues on the “Sydney
Morning Herald” ; that of Harry Inglis
Anderson, whose tomb was “erected by
Masonic brethren” in 1882 ; and that of
A. B. Piddington, a well-known modem
public figure (also the author of Worship-
ful Masters), who died as recently as
1945.
Australians, so the assurance runs, are
becoming historically minded. Maybe
that is true. But the process, I suggest,
must always be lopsided while we acclaim
historic figures and yet allow their graves
to remain mere blots on the landscape.—
Phil Anthus (N.S.W.).
Celtic Type-faces
Tfie reply on the Service Page (B.
5/12/’56) on type-faces produced from
the Book of Kells must seem odd to
anyone familiar with the lettering of that
MS. Very similar type-faces are used in
all Celtic countries, based probably on
traditional letter-forms, of which Kells
is but a part, and indeed George Bain,
in Celtic Art, criticised Eire for not basing
its script on that of Kells, but, instead,
seeking out the “grotesque.”
The alphabet from Kells given by Bain,
in the actual formations, would be readily
"This island makes me homesick !”
readable by any man today except for a
curiously fashioned “G” and a crooked
“Y.” However, Bain gives a modified
alphabet based on that of Kells which is
very beautiful and very readable. So the
statement that Kells would not “be suit-
able as a model for a modern type-face”
is quite wrong ; although no attempt may
have been made to use its script for that
purpose, very similar types are now in
use.
More recent researches in Celtic letter-
ing have revealed that the style of letter-
ing in the Book of Kells dates from the
4th to 6th centuries, tradition assigning it
to Columba himself, together with 300
"Come, come, now! You surely Wouldn't hit anyone Wearing glasses!”
other MS. Gospels. The art-work also
betrays considerable Pictish influence,
according to Bain. The very earliest
inscribed stones in Scotland betray a
similar style of lettering, and it is evident
that Alcuin introduced Celtic lettering to
Tours and did not develop one of his own.
It is evident, too, to any student of
Celtic lettering that that of Kells preceded
that of the Gospel of Lindisfarne, the
forms of the latter being less free and
more cramped by the existence of a long
tradition. — An Chuidh (Vic.).
Railways
“The Railway Guide of N.5.W.,”
second edition (1884), affords some
interesting contrasts. For a journey to
distant Goulburn our forebears were
advised to “be sure that you are at the
station from which you intend to start
(especially should it be the Sydney
terminus) a full quarter of an hour before
the train is to leave. Be sure that you
get into a carriage that is going to
Goulburn, otherwise you will have to
look out (sharply) at Granville, and
change into a carriage going south.
“The guards—uniformly a civil, trust-
worthy, and respectable class of men —
always warn passengers of every
necessary change, and occasional
stopping-place ; but passengers (especially
ladies) are often inattentive, and get
‘carried on’ in consequence, to the annoy-
ance of themselves and the vexation and
worry of everybody else.
“The suburban trains, of course, travel
more slowly than other trains, but the
usual time for the journey between
Sydney and Granville is reckoned to be
rather more than half an hour.”
Reference to the current railway time-
table shows the time taken by an all-
stations train, which is comparable with
the stops made by the trains of last
century, as being 40 minutes. Could there
be any significance between these figures
and the 1882 net profit of £754,288 against
the 1955 net loss of £7,625,998? — The
Jabberwock (N.S.W.).
“Why No Money?”
It doesn’t matter whether you call it
“money” or “finance” (M. F. Dixon, B.
26 /12 / ’56), there’s only a limited amount
of it hanging around for public works.
The money initially comes from taxa-
tion in various forms —taxes on imports,
exports and incomes and the hundred and
one different ways a little bit is lopped
off items here and there. Loans raised
here and overseas help to give the
Government a bit more to play with, but
you have to remember that a time
comes when you have to borrow to pay
back past loans. That’s happened before
today.
Once upon a time interest on foreign
investments gave the Government a bit
more pocket-money, ■ but this, too, .is
almost a thing of the past.
That, very briefly, is where most of the
money comes from. Before you can start
re-laying water-mains you have to keep
the armed forces for a year, pay for
Government and public services, main*
tain expensive foreign Embassies, con-
tribute to so-called “peace councils,” and
then start to think about free-hospital
schemes, baby bonuses, free education
and all the other perks that make life
worth while. Then you can start to think
of railways, roads, water-mains and the
like.
One alternative to leaving things as
they are is higher taxation per head to
give the Government more money to
handle ; another is the encouragement of
foreign investment.
Many are solidly against the latter.
They fear that Australia will ultimately
pass into foreign hands if money is
encouraged from outside.
Higher taxation isn’t any more popular,
either. There’s a limit to taxation. After
that, living standards fall and incentive
is stultified. More particularly, it retards
new ideas and industries.
The idea of a country encouraging
foreign investment and enterprise is not
new, and in some cases the investors have
been bought out in short time. America
is an example of this, and most European
countries founded their railways on
British capital.
The truth is that Australia is a big
country with a small population. We
enjoy a standard of living and working
conditions unexcelled in any part of the
world. If we are to develop rapidly and
maintain these conditions, we must either
be prepared for much heavier taxes or we
should try to entice foreign investors
whose enterprise would develop Australia
and provide work for the expanding
population. It’s up to us to say which we
want.
In the meantime we can only expect
slow progress, with the most essential
public works getting priority.— Agricola
(Q-).
One reason for “no money” is that
inflation over the 10 years to 1956 gave to
high-wage, low-production supporters the
savings of the provident, and left undone
or partly done many of the jobs of all
kinds for which they had already been
overpaid. With the compounded annual
rate of currency-depreciation between
1946 and 1956 at 7.5 per cent, it does not
pay the provident to invest money in
Government bonds to be used on national
development. Hence the present spending
spree on luxury goods.
The compounded annual depreciation-
rate of 7.5 per cent, is the interest-rate
which the 1946 investor should have
received to hold until 1956 the
purchasing-power of his 1946 £lOO
Government bond. Instead, he got 3.24
per cent, in 1946 and is offered 5.04 per
cent. now. In the face of this slow-
burning currency-depreciation the '
investor in Government bonds at the
foregoing interest-rates is simply not in
the race.
“M.F.D.’s” “Isn’t it time our financial
system was overhauled?” is not new.
Nor will it ever age while men ignore the
financial lessons of history and refuse to
recognise that monetary inflation is a
measure of human indulgence, of relaxed
human effort. It plunders posterity of its
heritage and swindles investors in
Government bonds, life-insurance and all
forms of saving and prudence by which
man tries to provide for old age.
Achievement and maintenance of a
sound money is a continuing task from
which attention may never be diverted.
The one hope for monetary reform lies
in human effort, for, apart from chance,
a country’s wealth depends upon what
effort its people put into production.
I know of no other way, and I hope
that M. F. Dixon does not believe that
there is another way.—F. R. (Q.).


Bell of the Trams
As a strap-hanging layman I have
never shared the admiration which
“Transporticus” evidently has for Hector
Hercules Bell, former Tsar of Mel-
bourne’s trams (B. 19/12/ ’56). He may
have been an economic genius, but his
dealings with his customers were deplor-
able, and seemed the more so compared
with the public-relations of Harold Clapp.
Under Bell, the good relations that
existed between Tramways Board and
public in the latter days of the cable era
were wrecked, seemingly for good. He
seemed to me to be a master of the can t-
be-done” school which dimmed civic
consciousness in Melbourne for a
generation.
Besides the economics of tramways,
Bell’s genius ran to reasons and explana-
tions that would not satisfy a kinder-
garten child.
Examples which come to mind:
double-decker buses could never be used
in Melbourne because there were too
many railway viaducts to pass under; and
trolley-buses could not be used on the
Brunswick route because they could not
turn round at the foot of Elizabeth-street.
—Rigel (Vic.).
Decline of Spain
Two main factors contributing to
Spain’s decline as a great Power, not
mentioned by “Terry the Tory” (B.
19/12/’56), were, first (and paradoxi-
cally), the greatness of Philip 11, and,
second (and probably the more
important), his bigotry and that of his
successors.
Philip was a man of exceptional
administrative ability, an incessant
worker who busied himself with all the
endless details of government. He did
everything himself, and regulated, or
tried to regulate, everything—even the
private affairs of his subjects. (The
reason why the Netherlands revolted
against and seceded from Spain, in
Philip’s reign, lay not in any express wish
to be independent but because Philip
was thus so interfering and unreasonable
—not to say downright tyrannous.)
Despite this loss of the Netherlands
and the equally grave loss of the Armada
(1588)—after which Spain was no longer
a power on the seas —Spain did, however,
continue to prosper under Philip’s auto-
cratic, centralised rule. It was this
centralised system of absolute govern-
ment in the hands of his mediocre succes-
sors which failed Spain badly after
Philip’s death (1598).
The bigotry and tyranny of these
rulers as of Philip II also, helped Spain’s
slide downhill. Philip 111 (1598-1621) set
himself to clear the country of the Moors
(in particular), Jews and other dissident
religious minorities, many -of whom were
skilled artisans or hard-working farmers.
To quote the American historian
Myers, “During 1609 and 161 Q all persons
of Moorish descent—more than half-a-
million of the most intelligent, skilful
and industrious inhabitants of the
peninsula—were driven into exile, chiefly
to North Africa. The empty dwellings
and neglected fields of once-populous and
gardenlike provinces told how fatal a
blow Spain had inflicted upon herself.
She had secured religious unity—but at
a great price.”
That, incidentally, is the price most
countries have had to pay for political
or religious conformity. The French
persecution of the Huguenots, which
drove many craftsmen out of France,
immensely strengthened the wool and
textile industries of England and Holland.
Nazi Germany lost the talents and
services of the Jews, and now Hungary
has without doubt bereft itself of many
fine sons, highly skilled men in most
cases seemingly.
As regards Spain’s American colonies,
it wasn’t so much emigration to them
(for most of the Conquistadores returned)
as the wealth itself of the colonies which
ruined Spain—another paradox perhaps.
The gold and the silver blinded the
Spaniards. They saw in the precious
metals wealth itself, and not, what they
really are, a mere medium of exchange.
All industry and agriculture ceased —in
fact, every job which didn’t yield the
largest of returns for the smallest of
efforts was just “given away.” No
country could prosper on those lines.
Though its downfall yields us a few
morals, the rise of Spain to a world-
ranking Power was only an accident when
all’s said and done—solely that Columbus
got his kick-off from the Spanish Court
and that the new colonies which thus
came Spain’s way happened to possess
for a time inexhaustible gold and silver.
The Spanish peninsula had always been
poor and infertile; and back to being
poor and infertile it went.
Apropos, what is the economic state of
Spain today? One never hears anything
of Franco’s domains nowadays.— Kros
(S.A.).
Lotteries
Reeling from the blows rained on me
by “Robbi” and “Terry the Tory” (B.
19/12/’56), I walked unsteadily to my
letter-box. There I found, in an envelope
addressed to “The Householder”—
delivered this time, not, as previously,
posted O.H.M.S. —a bundle of applica-
tion-forms for £1 tickets in the “Govern-
ment’s” Mammoth Lottery, “drawn about
every five weeks,” 10s. tickets in the
Special, “every four days,” and ss. 6d.
tickets in the Ordinary, “every day.”
Accompanying this printed offal were
agitated appeals for rejection of the temp-
tations spread before me by the lottery
joint in Tasmania, also, of course, a
“Labor”-Socialist State; ancf profuse
thanks for my “generous support,” to-
gether with a cool suggestion that my
generous “support” should take a new
form. “Establish a credit account
this method saves your time and your
money.”
I have other uses for my money, or
what is left of it. The runaway inflation
to which the gambling craze has made
and continues to make so disgraceful a
contribution hits no section harder than
old parties like myself. Not for us are
quarterly basic-wage increases or thump-
ing additions to our pensions, superannu-
ation allowances or savings-bank credits
such as our lottery-debauched State
politicians awarded themselves and
dated back seven months ; and the dread-
ful impending deficit be damned!
“Support your own lotteries,” our
“Labor” Government urger goes on
“Help your own State, and help your own
hospitals.” Though lottery promoters,
"Anyway, Mr. Jones, thank you for a most entertaining evening
like keepers of s.-p. dens, are capable of
any degree of impudence, it is astonish-
ing that the fellow should have the face
to mention the hospitals, considering
what his. Government did to them by
reducing their grants. Their financial
plight, evidenced by mountains of un-
paid tradesmen’s bills, was already
notorious. Of course, it is only of a
piece with the plight of the Government
schools, of the insolvent Government
transport services, of the victims, many
owners and many rentpayers, of the
Government’s infamous Landlord and
Tenant Act and of the Government itself,
with its new land tax, savage in its
incidence on proprietors of city and
country properties, even stud-farms,
though the lords of trotting and tin-hare
tracks go tax-free.
If lotteries were what they are cracked
up to be, this Sydney Government and
the one in the neighboring State where
“Labor” rule and lotteries are likewise
endemic should be rolling in easy money.
In point of fact they had to beg the
“Tory” Administration at Canberra for
the wherewithal to pay their December
wages and salary bills.
In Sydney we have a community which
has for a generation been led to believe,
by “Liberal” as well as “Labor” Adminis-
trations, that it is a laudable thing for
people to gain their fellow-citizens’ money
without rendering a service. It is a
generation with estimable qualities, but
a lively interest in the affairs of their city,
their State, their Commonwealth, the
parties for which they have to vote, even
their trade-unions, is not among them.
Hence, for one thing, the recent lament
of Mr. Ward (“all the life seems to have
gone out of the Party, in New South
Wales”); and, for another, the Com-
munists’ capture of “the second-biggest
union in Australia,” a coup brought
about by the Sydney vote: in effect,
Sydney is the one city in the English-
speaking world in which the Red con-
spiracy has not only suffered no setback
because of the Red atrocities in Hungary
but has actually gained ground. Hence,
for another thing, the loss of the Olympic
Games to Melbourne, with all the advan-
tages they brought and will continue to
bring, to that city and its State.
On the score of age, population, sport-
ing eminence and conveniences (for
example, there would have been no need
for a wide geographical separation of the
rowing and sailing races), Sydney had
much the stronger claims, but these claims
were never advanced. Melbourne won
because its case was put by active men
with civic pride sustained by a healthy
public opinion, both dead as mutton in
Sydney.
Perhaps it is just as well Melbourne
got the Games. There is nothing in the
record of the Sydney Town Haul and
its favorites to suggest that they wouldn’t
have made a putrid mess of the whole
thing. And it might have enabled Mr.
Lynch, most blatant of Sydney’s uniop
secretaries, to bring off his postmen’s
strike —as it was, he threatened the denial
of mail services to the teams in the
Olympic Village.— J. E. Webb (N.S.W.).
There is no vice for which self-delusion
cannot find an excuse. In most parts of
the world where the lottery is encouraged
the most vicious aspect of it is that there
is no limit to the amount the addict may
spend on it, and, because it is true that
you “must be in it to win it,” it is the
lower-income groups who lose far more
money than they can afford.
Any good that is credited to a lottery
is far outweighed by the evils that flow
from it. The vast sums wasted on lottery-
tickets, to the embarrassment of family
budgets, are one cause of demands for the
wage-rises which are depreciating our
currency. On the N.S.W. lottery alone
something like £l3 million a year is taken
from the pay-packets of the working com-
munity, the majority of it in N.S.W.
If we add every other type of “consul*
tation” available we reach astonishing
totals spent in gambling by. the small
adult population of this country. Is this
vast expenditure included in cost-of-living
statistics? If it is not, then Labor cries of
“wage injustice” cannot be justified.
If gambling-expenditure was in any
way productive something might be said
in favor of it, but apart from horse-
breeding, upkeep of racing-organisations
and a cut for taxation it is completely
unproductive in the nation’s economy. It
is, in fact, part of the sequence of events
which have done much to hamper Aus-
tralian trade by a steady increase in the
whole cost-structure.
What other nations do in the way of
gambling cannot be used to defend
lotteries. But wherever pressure for more
and more wages exists, there will be
found some form of gambling-addiction
which regularly reduces the family budget.
The prosperity of Britain was not
founded on anything but hard work and
small pay. The people were always too
busy to gamble much, with the result that
the trade of the world was in Britain’s
hands at prices nobody else could touch.
One country addicted to the lottery was
the Argentine, and at the beginning of the
century it was rapidly building a com-
munity prepared to beg, borrow or steal
enough money to buy the daily, weekly,
monthly and annual lottery-tickets rather
than work. It was the busy British who
built the Argentine and its profitable
frozen-meat trade, its public utilities, its
railways, etc. Lotteries could have ruined
the Argentines.— Shellback (N.S.W.).


Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
'
Thanks to
NEO-
BAKH£R£
No Pads—
No Springs
The NEO - BARRERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARKER® DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3d), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE LORE
ROYAL SHOW judge C. W.
AV Gill, of Diglum, Calliope
(Q.), has prepared a pamphlet
for the Aberdeen Angus Society
of Australia entitled “Points for
Young Judges in Beef Cattle
Raising.” A nice photograph
of an A.A. bull with the usual
dotted white lines illustrates the
points mentioned. But, it is
carefully explained, “The prin-
ciples in general apply to any
beef-bull.”
Here are Mr. Gill’s com-
ments :
The best way to gain an impression
of your animal is to study him at a
distance, where one can readily
distinguish character and gait. A
bold parader who walks freely and
can stand on his feet will be a big
acquisition in moving about your
paddocks and will gain the greater
drop of calves in your breeding-herd.
Having viewed the animals parading
at a distance, make your selections
according to merit, and place them so,
paying particular attention to head
character.
The head denotes character,
temperament and constitution. The
eyes should be full and bright, wide
apart; from the eyes to the nostrils
should be of moderate length; face
well dished; nostrils wide and open,
which permits free breathing; the
jaws should he wide and not under-
shot (parrot-beaked); as bovines only
spend limited periods in grazing daily,
it is essential that they consume as
much pasture as possible in that
time. The poll should be well defined,
with ears well set on to the head,
which should not be too small, and
well covered with hair.
Having assessed head-values, now
study the symmetrical lines of the
animal. The top-line should be
straight and square all over; standing
firm on all four corners. Legs should
be well placed and not too long,
nor sickle-hocked; with this weakness
the sire is usually lost to service in
your breeding-herd.
Bone-constitution is assessed by the
cannon-bone. The legs should not
be too long, but built in proportion
to the scale of the animal. A good
skeleton is essential to carry the scale
of meat for early-maturity and weight.
Granted the animal has a good
top-line, of equal importance is the
under-line, which should be straight
and parallel with the top-line.
We now move to the rear or
business-end of the animal. Here we
see well-covered hook-bones, with
length and evenness of rump well
carried out to the pin-bones; this is a
must in good beef-qualities. Tail-head
should be well set. The tail should
show good bone and not too fine,
for with this weakness it denotes
poor bone-constitution.
The thighs should be deep and
well filled; twist well carried down
and wide. Flanks should be well let
down and fill your hand when taking
hold of same. Even though flanks
are not of high-quality meat, they
denote the depth of the high-quality
meat carried on the thighs and
buttocks.
The loins should be well filled and
arched out, for this is where we
gain our most valuable cuts.
Ribs should be well sprung and
carried deep right down to the under-
line. This gives heart- and lung-
room essential for breathing and
healthy constitution.
The foot-rot germ
cannot live long if not
in close proximity to
animals. Therefore, a
paddock in which
sheep suffering from
foot-rot have been
grazing can be re-
garded as free from
contamination in re-
spect to foot-rot
germs in three to four
weeks after the in-
fected sheep have
been removed. Other
disease risks threaten-
ing Iambs at marking
and tailing time can
be guarded against by
using Elastrator Rub-
ber Rings.
The brisket should be full and
well carried forward, for this denotes
masculinity and another point for
good constitution.
Shoulders should be well laid-in
and not too prominent.
The neck should be of moderate
length, muscular, with moderate crest
(which increases with age), spreading
out to meet the shoulders with full
neck-vein. A good neck and head
conveys the sire’s carriage, and shows
what sex he really is.
Having briefly assessed some of the
important points in seeking a sire,
now look for fleshing qualities.
Thickness of flesh and mellowness
without excessive fat are what is
required today in the marketing of
high-quality meat.
Now take a view over the top of the
animal. This is the real payload
territory, where the exporter or
butcher assesses the value of your
steers. Level, wide and straight
throughout!
The hide should be loose and
pliable, showing smoothness of
quality to handle and covered with
good-quality hair. It should fill your
hand, for a loose, pliable-hided
animal will mature and fatten much
more rapidly than a tight-hided
handler.
Having assessed the major points
in visual judgment, what about the
ancestry of your sire? The stock
that stand behind him make him what
he is and enable him to show such
high-quality characteristics. By this
1 mean his pedigree; for a sire with-
out good standards of ancestry hai
little chance of transmitting his
qualities for the improvement of your
herd.
The ultimate goal of all beef-cattle
raising is beef-production; the steer
at the slaughterhouse is what keeps
this vital and national industry
buoyant.
Having surveyed the stud-beef
section of the show, I would strongly
advocate that before you leave the
showground you pay a visit to the
fat-cattle section, for this is the real
business-end of this great primary
industry. Having seen the stock on
the hoof, your next mission must be
a visit to the Meat Hall, where one
can readily see what actually lies
beneath the hide.
The expression of a judge’s opinion
in a show does not convey that
because a potential sire wins a prize
he will transmit his good visual
qualities to his stock. It has occasion-
ally happened that an animal that
did not attract much attention in
the show-ring and was ultimately sold
for a mediocre sum of money has in
actual progeny-testing proved far
more worthy than his prizewinning
counterpart.
In respect to raising calves as
potential sires today, not sufficient
attention is paid to culling. Because
an animal has a pedigree, this pedigree
is used as an excuse for the justifica-
tion of such animal being retained as
a sire. With excessively heavy feed-
ing and early foster-mothering the
animal is prepared for a show. This
excessive feeding is used to
camouflage any characteristic weak-
ness so as to try to deceive the judge
and prospective purchasers.
If more young stock were to be
castrated, it would not be necessary
for stud-breeders to go in for exces-
sively heavy feeding for show-ring
purposes; for this camouflage is an
economic waste if an animal cannot
transmit, hold, and improve the
quality of stock it produces.
Last and most important is the
business of culling your herd. By
this I mean the removal of animals
not up to a standard of good beef-
character. Females should be
assessed on their beef-qualities, but
the most important factor is very
often overlooked: has the cow
sufficient milk to nourish and pro-
mote growth in the early life of her
calf? No matter how much quality
a cow shows she is of very little
value commercially unless she can
reproduce a worthy specimen. It is
better to spey this animal, fatten her,
and send her to the abattoir.
One of the most important phases
of beef-cattle raising is the individual
who owns and manages his business.
The mere purchase of high-quality
sires and females does not in itself
ensure that those high standards will
be maintained. To achieve a continu-
ance of the high standards possessed
by the parent-stock requires that the
individual breeder assess and carry
out genetical principles correctly, and,
above all, should manage his property
and pastures well —for, after all, good
pastures and watering-facilities are
most important in the raising of prime
early-maturing stock.
Beef Cattle in Australia,
edited by Frank O’Loghlen, and
brought out by F. H. Johnston
Publishing Company Pty., Ltd.,
last year (the second of a series
—the first, under the same title,
was published in 1948), has a
chapter by L. A. Pockley,
B.V.Sc., on “Showing and
Foster-mothering”:
“So long as the better carcass
has been produced [for show
purposes] it has been of little
import, to many, how the
animal has been fed to produce
this result.
“We have seen the extremes
of animals up to 21 months or
more still sucking a cow ....
So long as the animal had just
that much more bloom to win
the prize, he was readily sold to
another breeder, and his stock
treated similarly.
“In this way cattle have been
produced which, for many
generations, have had no
opportunity to show their
ability to ‘do’ under natural
conditions. All one can say of
them is, ‘Here is an animal
which, given unlimited, highly-
nutritious feed, has the ability
to lay on flesh.’
“It is an accepted fact that
once we cease to select for a
desirable characteristic we tend
to lose it by reversion to primi-
" Mine linkit dis pfella only veneered , boss!"
tive type. That is' happening
today to many beef-cattle.
“In the United States, of
recent years, some interesting
feeding-trials have been carried
out. In one of these, the amount
of gain in weight for the
amount of fodder fed to various
strains of cattle has been
studied. One result is that the
efficiency in converting fodder to
meat of many commercial herds
has been greater than that of
some of the notable show" prize-
winning studs.
“Another result is that the
beast that makes the most
efficient use of fodder, when fed
on average pasture conditions,
may not do quite as well as the
other when fed on concentrated
rations.
“In one case, two bulls
exhibited were 18 months of age
and very close together in
quality. Bull A had made a daily
gain in bodyweight of .021 b.
more than B for each day of life.
That is, he had gained 21b. more
in each 100 days.
“However, a careful record of
fodder consumed had been kept,
and it was found that A had
eaten 1.75 energy-units for every
one that B had eaten. Under
pasture conditions it would be
possible for B to approach this
gain, but A could not consume
sufficient pasture, if he grazed
almost without rest, to produce
the same gain, as he had a much
less efficient digestive system.
“The importance of the study
of the efficiency-characteristic
in Australia is very great indeed,
for the bulk of the beef
marketed here will be grown on
pasture for many years to come.
“It must be appreciated that a
beast must have sufficient fodder
to show its ability to flesh but,
ideally, only sufficient to show
this. The ideal would' be to
run cattle on good - quality
pasture and select the animals
that develop best on that ration.
If the plane of nutrition is forced
so high that any animal, no
matter how inefficient his diges-
tive system, will still flesh well,
the plane of nutrition is too high
and uneconomic.
“The exhibition of highly-fed
show-stock has done much,
admittedly, to show breeders an
ideal to aim at in the produc-
tion of beef-stock, but it is very
questionable whether the present
competition between show-
feeders will, in the long run,
have a beneficial effect on the
industry as a whole.
“Similarly, it is nonsense to
talk of a show-beast as being of
early-maturing type unless its
mother had sufficient milk to let
it show this characteristic
naturally.
“Many a foster-mothered
show-calf, if left on its own
mother (no matter how well she
was fed), would never get suffi-
cient milk to develop well and,
if run on its dam under commer-
cial conditions, might have had
difficulty in surviving.
“The great danger is that, in
considering the efficiency of
conversion of fodder to meat or
milk, it is some years, if not
generations, before the effect of
a sire is seen.
“A small loss of efficiency in a
drop of calves is not easy to see
under varying seasonal condi-
tions. Milking-ability is not seen
until a drop of calves are them-
selves rearing calves.
“Whilst the individual breeder
has to rely on appearances to
assess these characteristics in his
stock, there is much room for
research on the subject.”
J. N. Shelton, of the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture,
writing in the “Queensland
Agricultural Journal,” advises
North Queensland cattlemen to
buy bulls to suit their climate:
“At a bull-sale you often hear
people say, ‘None of these bulls
is suitable for North Queens-
land.’ Perhaps they are right.
But what type of bull is suitable
for North Queensland?”
A bull bred to make rapid
weight-gains on good pasture or
hand-feeding may die in North
Queensland, Shelton points out.
“You want a bull that can
withstand tropical temperatures.
He must be able to walk long
distances for feed and water.
He must be able to cover his
share of cows under extensive
range conditions.”
If a bull can cope with hard
conditions there is a good
chance his calves will do
likewise.
We have all noticed among
a mob of cattle some that are at
ease in the heat and others that
are showing distress. What type
of bull is comfortable on a hot
day? The bull with a smooth,
gldssy coat. The fellow with a
woolly coat is most distressed.
He is breathing very rapidly,
panting and slobbering.
“Say we put these two bulls
in a crush and take their tem-
peratures. The smooth-coated
bull will read about 103. His
friend will go to 106 or 107.
Who wants to wear an over-
coat on a hot day? You would
want to take off your coat on a
hot day. Not all bulls can take
off their coats.
“You might ask, how can I
buy a bull that will shed his
coat? Most of you have
watched the bull-judging at the
Brisbane Exhibition. Look at
the first bulls to be sent out of
the ring. What are their coats
like? Many of them have left
their coats behind. Those are
the bulls you want. You aren’t
aiming at winning a champion-
ship. You want a bull that is
comfortable in your climate.
“The ideal is to buy -a bull
that never has a woolly coat.
These are rare. What is the
next-best? In North Queens-
land a woolly coat doesn’t
trouble a bull for about three
months of the year. If he starts
to shed his coat in August he
will be cool in the summer
months.
“A bull starts to shed his coat
when the length of the days
increases. Some bulls can
detect a smaller change in day-
light hours than others. In the
south there is a greater differ-
ence between the longest and
the shortest day than in the
north.
“Say a bull requires l|-hour
light-increase to shed his coat.
In Victoria this would happen
in August or September. In our
tropics this bull would be lucky
to get his overcoat off for
Christmas—a poor prospect for
a southern visitor!
“You may want to buy a
good bull in southern Queens-
land or further south. Inspect
him in winter. If his coat is
smooth then he won’t be
troubled by an overcoat in the
tropical summers.
“You may buy your bulls in
Central or North Queensland.
Inspect these in August. Select
only the bulls that have started
to shed their coats. Of course
you will consider other points,
but a good conformation is no
good if a bull cannot shed his
coat.”
Cattle-ticks
“Agricola”: Here in Queens-
land the cattle-tick problem is
always with us. Apart from the
worry and expense of regular
dippings or sprayings, cattle die
from tick-fever, and it’s incon-
venient to move stock from ticky
to clean districts.
Arsenic has been the active
ingredient in dips for two
generations, but the hardy tick
has taken a liking to it.
About 15 years ago graziers
found that arsenic wouldn’t kill
all the ticks. Weak dipping-
solutions, due to war-time
shortages, were blamed. The
strength of the dip was bumped-
up, and quite a few badly-
scalded cattle were seen on some
runs.
Old hands, seasoned in the
use of arsenic dips, still
remained loyal to the old
formula. They blamed dirty
dips, which stopped .the arsenic
from working. Many did need
cleaning-out, and, while this had
no effect on the arsenic-loving


Wien in Wool
to#
V
MS
gi;
7T -- -.
'■ s®**'
';■ - "\jf'
m
m
—3
4?
.w
3^
§§
B
DAL. XI
c f-"
successors to the colourful pack-horsed boundary riders in the sprawling
saltbush and spinifex centre of Australia ... On a 2,000,000-acre station
abutting the Nullabor Plain, their buzzing hornets have spelt finis to arduous
mustering on the “sheep-to-40-acres” country, radiating 80 miles from the
station behind 400 miles of vermin-proof fencing needing constant patrol to
keep in order . . . Here a fleet of scooters, with Kelpies and Border Collies
trained to ride their footboards, have brought automation to the remote
interior.
Likewise Dalgety's dependable wool and stock-selling service, its merchan-
dising facilities, and its friendly advice and help to graziers, have brought the
most efficient and experienced service to the pastoral industry ah over Australia.
MBalgetys
Always Dependable
15 BENT ST., SYDNEY, AND ALL STATES
tick, the belief was the cause of
many dips getting their first
clean-out for donkey’s years.
At first many wouldn t
believe that ticks could become
resistant to a chemical- .But as
time went by and the ticks
proved their liking for the newer
preparations as well as for the
old arsenic formula, the dis-
believers had to admit they were
What makes a tick resistant to
dips? In the first instance, some
were tougher than others. The
weaker ones were killed, and the
tough built-up a race of resistant
ticks which predominated. 1 h is
explanation seems simple
enough; but, as Dr. J. Legg, one
of Australia’s leading authorities
on the cattle-tick, has pointed
out, generations of untreated
ticks will suddenly produce a
crop of ticks that are resistant
to various chemicals.
Just when it looked as if the
tick had dips beaten and would
bolt through the State, D.D.T.
came along. This chemical hit
the ticks hard, and was effective
up to 12 days after dipping.
D.D.T. killed the ticks slowly,
and also helped control the
buffalo-fly.
It was the best break the
cattleman had had for many a
long day. Arsenic was on the
way out; D.D.T. was easy to
use, didn’t scald the hide, and
didn’t poison the stock.
Gammexane-or B.H.C. came
after D.D.T. It was more
poisonous, but sudden death to
ticks. The after-dipping protec-
tion didn’t last as long as that
of D.D.T. JLater preparations,
such as chlordane, dieldrin,
aldrin and toxaphene, have been
tried. Like gammexane, they
belong to a group of chlorinated
hydrocarbons. Ticks are showing
a resistance to some of these
new discoveries. D.D.T. still
seems to be the ticks’ chief hate.
It doesn’t seem, now, that
chemicals are the simple solution
to the cattle-tick problem.
Closely bound-up with chemical-
control is better husbandry.
Subdividing the runs into
smaller paddocks, so that stock
can be moved regularly, is a
help. This prevents the seed-
tick population from increasing
too much. Smaller paddocks
make it easier to keep an eye on
the* stock. It’s better to dip the
cattle when the ticks are first
noticed than when they have got
out of hand.
Scientists are also stressing the
value of seasonal dipping. They
point out that normally ticks are
scarce in the early spring. The -
ticks really start to work about 1
October and November.
If hit hard at this stage the
tick is kept quiet during the
summer ; but if the spring crop is
allowed to breed, the grazier is
in for a lot of hard work.
Destruction of the late-summer
ticks also helps to check them
in the following spring.
Recent discoveries hold out a
bit of hope. Two chemicals,
diazinon and malathion, have
been found to be sudden death
to ticks, including those showing
a resistance to gammexane and
similar preparations. Even in
very strong concentrations, these
chemicals do not appear to be
poisonous (research on them is
still going on).
Control of the tick is every-
one’s business. Scientists,
Governments and graziers are
pooling their resources to wipe
it out. It must cost the country
millions each year, and it s too
big a job for the careless cattle-
man to hinder. He does exactly
that when he allows his stock to
become thick with ticks and to
spread them far and wide.
Pre-harvest Spray
“Sundowner”: A new pre-
harvest orchard-spray has been
developed in the United States
which reduces losses of apples
and pears from about 20 per
cent, of the crop to less than 6
per cent.
Known as stop-drop spray, it
stiffens the resistance of fruit to
wind or jolting by ladders ot
fruit-gatherers.
Chemicals used are plant-
growth regulators, which retard
the normal formation of the
abscission-layer. The flow of
nutrients to the fruit is stopped
by the growing abscission-layer,
which separates the stem of the
fruit from the branch and causes
it to fall after it has ripened.
Stop-drop holds the fruit fast
from 10 days to four weeks,
depending on the compound
used.
Regulating compounds so
far used include N.A.A.
(naphthaleneacetic acid), 2, 4-D,
and 2,4, 5-T.P. (trichloro-
phenoxypropionic acid).
Helping Lucerne
“Big Billy”: In non-irrigated
areas lucerne lies dormant during
the winter months, and aS it does
not compete against winter-
growing weeds it’s subject to
heavy infestation. As a check
to this weed-growth and a means
of renovating the stand, Victorian
departmental agrostologist. I. H-
Cameron has recommended culti-
vation, using a combine or
scarifier fitted with narrow
lucerne-points.
If growth is heavy, he suggests
two cultivations, the second at
right-angles to the first. Harrow-
ing as a follow-up operation may
be necessary to prevent weeds
re-rooting. .
To encourage a quick
response, the lucerne should
next be topdressed with lcwt.
of superphosphate per acre (this
can be done in conjunction with
the cultivation if a combine is
used). , ,
The life of a stand may be
prolonged by cutting it for hay,
rather than grazing it; even it
the stand is to be grazed, the
normal first cut of hay should
be taken, in Cameron’s view, for
weeds left in the stand will be
removed in this way.
It’s a job to plan for late
winter or early spring, he said,
was the best time.
He doesn’t recommend the
renovation of irrigated lucerne-
stands, tests having shown that
no improvement in hay-yields is
obtained and a number of plants
are killed at each renovation.
Weed-competition with lucerne
is not strong under irrigated
conditions.
y _
Fop Potatoes
“Billjim”: For the most pro-
ductive use of next year’s potato-
acreage, crop-rotation should be
decided on in advance. Peas are
an ideal choice, as they may be
grown for processing and their
maturity coincides with the best
potato-planting conditions.
Choosing, of course, a variety
of peas suitable for processing,
dust with a fungicide, such as
Tetroc, Fernesan or Di-Rot 50
to give protection against rotting
under wet, cold conditions, when
germination may be slow.
Also, place fertiliser where it
won’t damage the seed, as peas
are exceptionally sensitive: the
fertiliser should be placed in a
band 2in. deeper than the seed
and 2in. to the side.
If fertiliser is to be drilled-m
with the seed use a super-
phosphate-lime mixture of about
equal proportions. In areas
where molybdenum is known
to cause a response in
clover-growth, spray peas with
ammonium-molybdate at ilb. per
lOOgals. per acre. Where potash
and/or sulphate-of-ammonia are
needed and cannot be drilled in
a separate band from the seed
they should be broadcast after
the seed is sown.
As peas must not be grown
in a weedy paddock, pre-sowing
cultivation should be thorough.
In addition, the use of DNBP
selective weedkiller may be
necessary. It should be sprayed
at 8 pints per acre after the peas
have been sown and before they
emerge from the soil. In the
growing crop this chemical can
also be used when the peas are
about 6in. high.
Peas for processing are best
sown in drills 7in. apart and
fertilised with 2-to-4cwt. of super,
per acre.
Wheat Grades
“Wurroa”: With the renewed
outcry for higher-quality wheat,
both from our Asian markets
such as Ceylon and from the
U.K., the Australian Wheat
Board would be wise to make at
least the first step of segregating
high-quality from low-quality
wheat in the silos.
Queensland and northern
N.S.W. wheats generally have a
better quality than those in the
rest of Australia. In Victoria,
wheat from the north-east Mallee
and the clover-ley districts is
much better than wheat from the
Wimmera. . .
Under such segregation, local
millers could be given their share
of wheat from the better districts.
In addition, Wimmera millers
could buy the produce of certain
well-known growers.
At present, segregation by
districts seems to be a much
more practical proposition than
segregation by varieties, or the
payment of a meagre premium
to stimulate the growing of high-
quality wheats. It has been
shown time and time again that
a variety in a certain area can
have a better quality than a
nominally better variety grown
in a different environment.
Fig Findings
“Sundowner”: Results of a
decade of trials in S.A. on the
pruning and manuring of fig-
trees indicate that pruning
greatly reduces the yields of the
Smyrna variety, while nitrogen
manuring does not significantly
affect the yield.
The trials were conducted by
W B. Harris, of the Bern
Experimental Orchard, where
there are about 120 acres of trees
in production. Trees used in the
tests were about 30 years old,
and no regular pruning had
been done on them.
The object of the pruning-
treatment tested was to establish
shorter fruiting-laterals, which
might increase fruit-size, and to
reduce the height of the tree for
convenience in harvesting. This
was done by removal of the long
fruiting-laterals in the first
season, together with thinnmg-
out of branches. Large branches
removed were stubbed to 8-10 in.
to encourage refurnishing with
new, short laterals.
Allowing for the difference in
drying-ratios, the yield from the
pruned trees was reduced by 41)
per cent, dried-weight over the
10-year period. This loss of
crop, from pruning outweighed
the benefit from the better fruit-
With figs, green-manuring with
winter-grown cereal or legume
crops is standard. In the trial an
annual dressing of 31b. sulphate-
of-ammonia per tree, applied
after* the green-manure crop had
been turned-in, was tested against
no manure.
Half the trees manured and
unmanured in plots were pruned
and half left unpruned. The
figs were harvested at the normal
stage for drying, and fruit from
•pruned and unpruned trees was
dried separately. The average
production per pruned tree was
18 lib. with manure, and 18.51 b.
without; for unpruned trees,
25.71 b. and 26.21 b. respectively.
Fruit from pruned trees was
larger than that from trees not
pruned, and pruned trees
generally gave a first-grade pack
with 14 to 16 dried figs per lb.-,
while unpruned trees gave a
second-grade pack with 22 dried
figs per lb.
Harris says that the trials
suggest that the problem of small
fruit-size in dried-figs, occurring
on older trees, is one that cannot
be economically treated by
pruning or manuring.
Farm Hints
“C.A.A.”: Experiments in S.A.
have disclosed that a substantia)
increase in wool-production
results from feeding young sheep
liberally with oats. In tests at
the Kybybolite Research Station
a group of Merino hoggets fed
on oats as weaners cut 13.31 b.
of wool at 17 months. A similai
group given no feed-supplement
cut only 10.91 b. In addition to
the increase in wool the fed
sheep were exceptionally well
grown and could be expected to
produce good lambs.
“Billjim”: In windy positions
or on sandy soil a tree or shrub
should be supported by two or
three large stones around the
base, in addition to the usual
staking. The stones keep the
plant firmly in the ground, and
the soil beneath remains moist
and cool. The same applies to
the planting of creepers. Stones
placed around the base will
stabilise a plant and aid rooting.
“Wester”: For cabbage-
worms, spray the cabbages with
a mixture of six quarts of water
to loz. of yellow soap and one
pint of kerosene. This will kill
the worms without injuring the
plants. Be careful to keep the
liquid wfll-mixed while spraying.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses —as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered- — in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(30/12/’56)
Heavy rains
™TZZ "January; patchy “^
Heavy falls should continue on the coast (central ana
aU ””coL?»TUM.„* of NSW. should receive reason-
ably good rains during January, '"i, general
patchy U cain.
S^nKrteensiand^
and January 17 may extend further southwa
anticipated. , ~ moB t of Victoria during
General rains should occur in most oi moderat e
January, but Gippsl.nd may have only l.ght to moderat
rain, below average. should receive good
r ai„sTn h Vn B«™y,'M 8 «™y,'M in ,t fntior, with general rains
F M r o U .t ry of W.A. is likely to experience poor rainfall
nortlnweat” during February anTtbeTiorfd extend Tenth!
ward.
LENNOX WALKER.


remember, it was when all that
scare about forged fivers started
in Melbourne. As far as I know
the offer is still open.”
Christine, looked at him wide-
eyed. Seventy-five pounds was
a lot of money. She waited for
Tom to continue.
“Well, now,” said Tom, “in a
way you could say this is a
forged fiver. But, if I were to
take it to this joker who is offer-
ing the reward, am I likely to get
it, or is this so obviously not a
fiver that I’m likely to get myself
arrested for attempted fraud?”
“It sounds a bit complicated,”
said Christine nervously, “but 1
think I can see what you mean.
Please don’t get yourself
arrested, Tom.”
“I don’t intend to. It seems
there’s only one way of finding
out and of covering myself at
the same time ; I’m going down
to the bank; I shall tell them
I’ve had what I think is a forged
fiver passed on me and I’ll show
them this note. If they say it is
a forged fiver then I’ll take it
along and claim the seventy-fiye.
If they say it’s nothing like a
fiver and I ought to have my
head read for accepting it, I’ll
just forget the reward and keep
this as a souvenir of friend Cecil
upstairs.”
“Well, if you think it’s safe ...
Seventy-five pounds is a lot of
money to us. After all the thing
is a forgery when all’s said and
done, isn’t it?”
“That’s what I mean.”
TTE hesitated before he
-t-*- approached the bank-teller.
He had nothing to feel guilty
about but he felt it all the same.
At last he plucked up courage
and went over to the counter.
He placed the charred piece of
paper in front of the teller,
coughed nervously and asked,
“Could you tell me if this note
is counterfeit?”
The bank-clerk’s eyebrows
shot-up and he peered suspici-
ously at Tom. He examined the
note carefully.
“It’s in a bit of a mess,” he
said. “How did it come to be
burned?”
Tom was ready for that one,
but his voice shook a little as he
spoke. “Well, you see, when we
suspected it was a forgery we
compared it with a genuine
note; my wife and I, that is.
My wife thought it was a very
bad forgery, more like a piece of
stage-money than a note, and I
was so disgusted I started to
burn it.
“What made you change your
mind?”
“I suddenly remembered that
some businessman had offered
seventy-five quid for a forged
fiver; I’d read about it in the
papers. I put the flames out
pretty quickly then. The note
got a bit singed as you can see,
but the numbers are there.
That’s the main thing, isn’t it?”
The teller pursed his lips and
nodded. „
“I see. So if we say this note
is a forgery you’ll go and claim
the seventy-five. Is that it?”
“That’s right.”
“You realise the police would
have to be notified? I imagine
it would have to be done
through them.”
Tom started. “I hadn’t
actually considered that. But it
suits me, of course.” He began
to wish he hadn’t started the
business.
“If you’ll just wait a few
minutes I’ll go and see about it.”
The bank-clerk walked away
with the note and disappeared
through a doorway. Soon after
another man stuck his head out
and peered at Tom.
They both came put again and
put the note on a table and
examined it carefully through a
hand magnifying-glass. They
had a chart with them and they
seemed to be comparing the
note with that. They conversed
in low tones and looked from
time to time at Tom.
Presently they walked over to
the counter.
“I’m the branch-manager,”
said the second man.
Tom said nothing.
“If you don’t mind,” said the
branch manager, “I’d like to
offer you some advice. Firstly,
don’t attempt to claim the
reward with that note.”
He stared solemnly at Tom
through his glasses. Tom
nodded.
“Secondly, don’t jump to con-
clusions and burn any more
fivers. Your note is, of course,
perfectly genuine.”
Tom goggled, but was unable
to speak.
The manager smiled. “I’m
sorry to disappoint you; but
you’ve still got your fiver. We’ve
examined your note carefully
and except for a slight blurring
of one or two lines it is no
different from any other note.
Printing is not such an exact
science as all that, you know,
even in the Mint. We get
hundreds of them in here like
that and they are all perfectly
genuine.”
“Th . . . th . . . thanks very
much,” stammered Tom.
“1 don’t suppose you’ll want
to keep your note in that con-
dition ; the shopkeepers might
not be very willing to take it.
Would you like a new fiver or
five singles?”
“Five singles, please,” said
Tom.
Tom took the notes and
walked to the door like a man
in a dream. He paused outside
thoughtfully and turned towards
the police-station.
ttOLY mackerel, he thought,
a hundred new fivers in
circulation each week and all
of them minted by my washing-
machine. Five hundred pounds
a week, twenty-five thousand a
year. No wonder there’s
inflation.
But twenty-five thousand a
year, and tax-free at that! Tom
turned towards home just before
he reached the police-station.
His mind was made up ; he was
going into the novelty trade—
retail side, of course. Mr.
Jackson would be pleased to
get the extra business.
The Unculturbles
By MAUREEN LUSON
i i -t UST an informal talk—
I about half-an-hour. Of
I course,” said the
•J glutinous voice over the
telephone, “our little club isn’t
able to run to a fee.”
“Oh, of course not,” said
Olivia Grindle.
She hadn’t expected a fee, but
she had hoped for one. Cash had
become a more than pressing
necessity of late. Still, she
thought, brightening, maybe this
invitation was the first step to
recognition—and more clients
for Olivia Decors.
“We provide tea,” the voice
informed her graciously, and
added: “afternoon,” so that
Olivia sorrowfully banished
visions of pies and sausage-rolls
and resigned herself to the
prospect of one cup of beige
water and a mashable biscuit.
The voice, like oozing syrup,
flowed on that it would look
forward to seeing Miss Grindle
on Wednesday at the Tirrike
Recreation Hall, two-thirty, and
that it really had to fly now.
Olivia hung up and made a
note on her blank engagement-
pad :
Tirrike Ladies’ Tea Club.
(President Mrs. Thrypps). Weds.
2.30. Talk on Int. Decoration.
Olivia gave a great deal of
time and thought to her talk.
While striking a friendly, girl-
to-girl note, she decided, it must
also embody enough technical
jargon to impress the Tirrike
Ladies with the importance of
having an expert like herself
to carry out the schemes.
She took “Clues About Color”
as her title, pleased at its snap-
piness, and practised rhetorical
questions in her low, well-
modulated voice: “Are your
schemes out of sympathy with
you ? Is your home keyed to
your color-personality?”
She pictured rows of intent
face-blobs as she emphasised her
carefully - worded tag - lines:
“Dismiss drabness from your
daily round. Highlight home
happiness. Laundries can be
lovely too. Color makes chores
carefree.”
Y\/EDNESDAY found Olivia
full of firm resolve, and
dressed for the part in a brilliant
tangerine jersey dress with jet
jewellery (a strong color framed
by a neutral).
Mrs. Thrypps swam from the
hall to greet her: “So delightful
of you, Miss Grindle!”
Olivia was too fascinated by
the dreadful juxtaposition of
mauve skin and bottled-auburn
hair to do more than follow the
president dumbly along a
passage.
“Such a splendid turn-up,”
cried Mrs. Thrypps, and then
paused in her breasting of
invisible surf and hissed in
Olivia’s ear: “Of course, every
club has its warring element.
Would you believe it, but
there are members who dislike
culture? So fortunate that the—
ringleader—was unable to be
present today.”
She laughed heartily and swam
forward again; flung wide a
door.
A din, as of animals waiting
for food, encompassed Olivia.
What seemed to be about a
thousand women, all screaming
at friends several rows away,
and most knitting with ferocity,
crammed the large room.
A tall, rock-featured woman
in a mud-brown hat shaped like
a dispirited omeletjte loomed
beside Mrs. Thrypps.
“Our vice - president, Mrs.
Gourke,” penetrated to Olivia’s
stunned ears.
“Happy to know you, Mrs.
Gourke,” Olivia murmured.
Mrs. Gourke neither moved
her lips, nor altered her expres-
sion of abhorrence.
Olivia was steered to a table
and three frail chairs some two
leet from the foremost row of
women; she sat down gingerly.
lyrRS. Thrypps shook a bell ; if
it rang, it did so unheard.
“Are we all ready, ladies?”
mouthed Mrs. Thrypps.
No lessening of the jungle din.
“Girls, please! Quiet!”
besought Mrs. Thrypps.
No response.
Mrs. Gourke suddenly ejacu-
lated “Sh!” with all the
vehemence of a strangulated
steam-engine.
At once a hush ensued, broken
only by the cicada-clicking of
knitting-needles.
Mrs. Thrypps’s voice spread
like molasses over the cicadas:
“Such a treat for us all! Miss
Olivia Grindle has kindly given
up some of her valuable time
to tell us how to make the best
of our interiors”
“Good thing I didn’t bring my
Edie along, then,” remarked a
comfortable body in the front
row. “She’s still ever so sensitive
about her gallstones.”
Mrs. Thrypps frowned. “I
meant, naturally, that Miss
Grindle is going to help us over
color-problems”
“Well, I’m open-minded,” said
an earnest, spectacled person.
“Black, white, or yellow, we’re
all as God made us.”
“I’m not, thank goodness,”
came from a pert blonde.
“I have much pleasure in
presenting the well-known
interior decorator, Miss Olivia
Grindle,” ended Mrs. Thrypps
quickly, and sat down.
Olivia held her breath, but the
chair, miraculously, bore.
/"ALIVIA rose, with what she
hoped was an easy smile.
“Ladies of the Tirrike Tea
Club, I want to try and tell you
something of that important and
absorbing subject—color. It’s
important because it can make
or mar your home. And it’s
absorbing because of the endless
nuances and variations of the
spectrum”
“Speak up, dear,” quavered
someone at the back.
“Basically,” said Olivia, raid-
ing her voice slightly, “there are
two distinct color-groups—the
hot, and the cold”
“No, I said a bobby-pin,” came
an agitated whisper. “To pick up
this dratted stitch.”
Olivia cleared her throat:
“Two distinct color-groups”
She felt a hand pluck at her
skirt, and, turning, beheld Mrs.
Thrypps, with globular eyes,
nodding in the direction of the
door.
“Mrs. Muntz,” hissed Mrs.
Thrypps. “You know. I told
you”
She broke off to beam a
welcome.
The woman who stood in the
doorway looked as if she had
been built there, so stolidly were
her feet planted; her face like
a flapjack with sharp, currant
eyes.
“I do not apologise that I am
late,” said Mrs. Muntz. “I am
not receiving notice there is
leggchur.”
“How odd,” said Mrs.
Thrypps.
Mrs. Gourke, without moving
a muscle, managed to convey
extreme repellence to Mrs.
Muntz.
The audience burst into pro-
Muntz greetings, and anti-Muntz
comments: “Over here by the
window, Elsa . . .!” “The old
stickybeak—like her nerve! ”
"IVfRS. MUNTZ, astonishingly,
iTX moved. She began to
plough a swathe through the
rows bv sheer force of cubic
capacity
“vr f
° . se ® yOU I ~,
Look ’ mmd my feet!
Move over, Doreen, can’t
you? ”
“Now we’ll have some fun!”
Mrs. Muntz finally settled
herself on a window-seat, from
where she fixed Olivia with a
glittering stare.
“Garry on,” she commanded,
“Basically,” said Oiivin clearly.
“there are two distinct color-
gro ups-the hot, and the cold.
Tor harmonious results these
should not be mixed. Redheads
the hot group”
\ u a u 11 t '
mLx Y Mrs ’
Q| . j . . ... „ R ,
, g^ared at ker - „ Red
heads the advancing colors”
, f
True chuckled Mrs. Muntz.
Mrs. Thrypps s chair creaked
a gitatedly, and pro-Muntz titters
rippled.
Olivia thought: Oh, God, the
Thrypps hair! She faltered:
“Red doesn’t wait for the
eye to seek it out,” and then,
demoralised by more tittering
a nd creaking skipped a whole
paragraph Blue heads the cold
froup, she said with more con-
fidence. It is aloof and reces-
slve » and needs livemng-up
The titters rose and swelled
into laughter. Out of the corner
of her eye Olivia saw the mud-
brown omelette tilt as Mrs.
Gourke leant towards Mrs.
Thrypps; she also saw that the
stiff corrugations of hair under
the omelette were a gleaming,
metallic blue.
CRUMPLING her notes in
sweaty hands Olivia forgot
subtlety:
“Many of you may have been
considering new color-schemes
for your homes. Why not have
them expertly planned this time?
Why not forsake the beaten
track of safe colors and
adventure into the beauty of the
new, bold, strong colors . . .?”
“You get so tired of them,
dear,” said the comfortable body.
“1 know, because my hubby did
our smallest room mustard.”
“Ugh,” grimaced her neigh-
bor. “No wonder he went down
with hepatitis.” ,
“No. And he’s never been the
same since. As if he wasn’t bad
enough before.”
The conversation became
general.
“Terribly catching, isn’t it?”
“Leaves you with cirrhosis of
the liver.”
“Not always. My doctor
says”
“Imagine,” shouted Olivia
desperately, “your lounge in
lavender and Prussian-blue, with
cherry accents. Imagine your
kitchen in cinnamon, charcoal,
and jade”
Mrs. Gourke, having hex-
revenge, uttered the single
word: “Horrible.”
“Tell us more,” said Mrs.
Muntz, “of the redheads and
blueheads. This was good, not?”
Pro-Muntz laughter.
Olivia pleaded: “Imagine this
very hall a symphony in apricot
and grey, its ceiling brought
down by a dominant
orange”
The footsteps which, for some
time, had been pattering over-
head, now dissolved into a series
of elephantine thuds.
“M any very dominant
oranges,” said Mrs. Muntz.
“Not?”
Mrs. Thrypps’s voice con-
gealed in the surge of laughter.
When it flowed through at length,
the syrup was laced with acid.
“Such an instructive talk. And
so much enjoyed. By us all,”
said Mrs. Thrypps defiantly.
“And now, as the Expectant
Mothers’ P. E. Class has begun
rather early, I think we might
adjourn for afternoon-tea.”
'T'HE thuds persisted dully
beneath the awful screech of
chairs being gladly pushed back.
The Tirrike Ladies converged on
a door from behind which issued
steam and cup-clinking.
“I’m afraid, Miss Grindle,”
said Mrs. Thrypps, “that some
of our members found your talk
rather over their heads. Such a
pity.”
She swam away into the
throng, still smiling in defeat.
Soon only her terribly titian
hair was visible.
“But not over our heads,”
snapped Mrs. Gourke, and
stalked out of the room.
Olivia stood alone.
It was Mrs. Muntz who
approached and thrust a cup of
tea into her hand. Mrs. Muntz’s
flapjack face was inscrutable, yet
there was monumental triumph
in her bearing.
“I think now we get no more
leggchurs,” said Mrs. Muntz. “I
think Redhead and Bluehead
will go. Then, at the club-
meetings we can make the gossip
and talk of our kids and our
men, and there will be fun and
goodt foodt. It was clever, your
leggchur, that it so degombosed
Redhead and Bluehead.”
“But you don’t understand,”
croaked Olivia. “I was trying
to explain”
And then she knew that,
inevitably, no one would ever
understand, and she would
always be trying to explain.


Collins Fontana Bool^s
THE BEST READING AT THE LOWEST PRICE
Recent Titles Include
Knock On Any Door pl™r?™ynl?l*.
WILLARD MOTLEY 5,6 _ PETER CHEYNEY 3,
The Bridge: Or.the River Kwi How^'D spring 3/6
Plt e On the Edge of the Primaeval Forest
ETHEL 3,6 ALbIrT SCHWEITZER 3/-
Available Now From All Booksellers
COLLINS —PUBLISHERS
New Books hy Popular Authors
SHINING HARVEST
by E. V. Timms. The ninth novel
in Timms’s great Australian saga is
set against vivid backgrounds of Pans,
London and N.S.W. 100 years ago.
16/- (post 9d.)
ROAMING ROUND NEW ZEALAND
by Frank Clune. Written in his
usual graphic style, this record of
the author’s New Zealand tour is
beautifully illustrated with 31 pages
of photographs. 25/- (post 9d.)
in referring to the favoritism enjoyed
bv cavalry officers in the First World
War and to the fact, deplored by Lloyd
George, that no civilian rose above the
rank of brigadier, mentions that the
commanders of the Canadian and Aus-
tralian forces had both been civilians
when war broke out.
Apart from this, he makes only
casual references to the Common-
wealth and none at all to its members
as a source of officer-material. I he
influx, during the ’thirties, of so many
young pilots obviously not impressed
with the Cranwell stamp, surely had
considerable effect in moulding—or
modifying — the, character of the
R.A.F.
Reviewed Briefly
Long Lance: Chief Buffalo Child
Long Lance (Faber). It is not every
day you come across the autobiography
of a Blackfoot Indian Chief; and this,
first published in 1928, is not only rare
but genuine. Chief Buffalo Child fought
through World War I with the
Canadians, going in as a private and
coming out a captain with many
decorations; became a reporter and
magazine-writer and worked for his
people. His autobiography is of his
childhood and youth, beginning, at the
age of 14 months, when his uncle Iron
Blanket was killed in a fight with the
Crows, and is full of war, buffaloes,
blizzards and medicine-men—a remark-
able first-hand picture of the last days
of the traditional Red Indian life.
* * * **
Writing for Australia: Cyrd Brown
(Hawthorn Press). A booklet on
nationalism in Australian literature.
Mr. Brown has much to say about
the Jindyworobaks but little on more
important writers outside that group.
He describes A. G. Stephens as an
“uncompromising exponent of national-
ism”; he depicts the 1125 pages of
“Such Is Life,” from which the whole
of “Rigby’s Romance” was cut out,
as reaching Stephens ‘word-perfect
and comma-perfect’; and he values
Miles Franklin’s and Dympbna
Cusack’s trifling “Pioneers on Parade
as “next in importance to ‘AH That
Swagger’ in the nationalist tradition of
latter-day development.'’ At this date
the case for (and against) nationalism
surely needs a more scholarly
approach.
* * * *
Behind the Australian Tests— l9s6:
Norman Cutler (Putnam). A ball-to-
ball account. It begins with oner
summaries of recent English and
Australian Test-cricket; then goes on
to a reasonably satisfying description
of the 1956 Tests, with an impartial
comment on the famous Old i rafford
“dust-lieap” dust-up. Mr. Cutler
reveals one secret, not cabled to Aus-
tralia- that, when N.S.W. critics were
calling on Johnson to stand-down after
the loss of the third Test, a deputation
from the players told him not to be
stampeded and that ‘ if he didn t play,
they wouldn’t”—the deputation being
led by an N.S.W. player and contain-
I others from N.S.W. There are one
two careless misspellings of names
avell for Favell) and here and there
inaccuracy in fact (McDonald did
t “wilt badly against Tyson and
itham in 1954-55 and lose his place
Watson and Favell” —McDonald, in
;t was not picked till the third
54-55 Test, and thereafter was Aus-
lia’s most successful batsman against
» fast-bowling pair; and, though the
ler two played in the last Test of that
'ies, McDonald did, too).
* * * *
The Vermeer Forgeries: Jan Baesjou
les) The Van Meegeren story again,
,ne in the form of a novel, The
tproach is rather naive, the dialogue
treal; and, though it is interesting
lOugh, such things are really better
me as direct biography. The illustra-
?ns are exceptionally interesting,
early showing that, whether he was
tinting under his own name or forging
ermeer. Van Meegeren had great
ill.
* * * *
The Tontine: Thomas B. Costain
Collins). Nine hundred and twenty-
ght pages of story, packed full and
inning over with interest and
ersonalities. The tontine was a kind
l lottery in which the shareholders
Dllected more and more dividends as
eath decreased their numbers, so that
was really a contest in longevity,
’he fortunes of three families are linked
igether by ah interest in the Waterloo
ontine, and the 70 years following the
tattle of Waterloo form the period of
he novel. Written with Thomas
fluency and simplicity, it is
leasant reading.
* * * *
The Tribe That Lost Its Head:
Nicholas Monsarrat (Cassell). A
lative uprising in a British West
African protectorate, where British
ule has brought steady progress, but
vhere barbarous customs persist. Ihe
lensational-press reporters are shown
ts unscrupulously initiating trouble ana
hen feeding upon it; the British civil-
jervants are dedicated, industrious,
knowledgeable. The natives are
pictured with care: the Qxford-
sducated chieftain, idealistic and
unsure; his cousin, also educated m
England but influenced by baser
elements; the northern chieftain inciting
the natives to obscenities and a final
appalling atrocity. Nicholas Mon-
sarrat is as vigorous as ever, his
sarcasm, as sharp and glittering. But
the emphasis on civil-service makes it
long-winded in passages.
* * * *
Off Limits: Hans Habe (Australasian
Publishing Co.). A novel of Germany
after the war in which the Hungarian-
born author seems to be trying to say
that the Americans missed a chance
to push through an object-lesson m
democracy; but his treatment is
generally too sympathetic, and his
characters, with their ranting post-war
philosophies, become repetitive and
monotonous. Some of the studies are
good the masochistic American
major, the German girl who turns to
prostitution to stay alive, a very
German doctor whose patriotism
overrides Hitler and the Americans, the
wives of the Nazi leaders. But. with
nothing to hang the pictures to the
novel is left at the end with a lot ot
stories that have to be stubbed out
like half-smoked cigarettes.
* * * *
Driven: Richard Gehman (Peter
Davies). A mystery- with a difference
that sets out, mainly through inter-
views with jail-psychiatrists after the
event, to probe the mind of the
respectable, well-liked assistant bank-
manager in an American town, who,
after a strange moodiness, embezzles
just on a million dollars. In search ot
the force that drove him, the inter-
views take in significant parts of ms
youth up to his marriage and his rise
in the bank through to the subsequent
time he had on the money—from town
to town, drink to drink, woman to
woman; an absorbing episode. On
the whole, very well done, reaching a
conclusion without sentimentality and
managing a neat picture of American
life.
* * * *
Islamic Pottery: an illustrated
account of the collection of Sir Eldred
Hitchcock, with an introduction by
Arthur Lane (Faber). The plates and
vases, illustrated in some beautiful
color-plates, date from the ninth to
the 14th centuries A.D., the work ot
the Islamic potters who ranged from
Cairo to Samarkand and who are still
the subject of archaeological investiga-
tion. An authoritative monograph for
the specialist.
* * * *
Mettle Dives Deep: James Macnell
(Constable). Macnell here takes
Captain Mettle, hero of his previous
boys’ book, through another Special
Service sortie, this time on the track
of gun-runners in the Mediterranean.
And Mettle and his gallant crew—-
“Crabby,” “Hooky,” “Engines” and
co—have a special reason for catching
up with the culprits when they learn
that their leader is none other than the
despicable “Squeaker,” whom they
thought they’d killed on their last
mission. Cruising in the destroyer
Scorpion, darting about in a midget
sub., grappling with an octopus, tear-
ing through the desert in frogman-
outfits, through to where the
“Squeaker” is trapped in his cave-
hideout —all is told with an urgency
that is not interrupted by the concise
technical detail.
* * * *
Good Appetite My Companion:
Victor MacClure (Odhams). Cookery
is not usually considered a Scottish
accomplishment, but Mr. MacClure,
who has specialised in art and eating
in his travels over France, Spain and
Italy, opens his travel-recipes with an
account of how a Scottish foreman of
a gang digging a gas-mam m the street
cooked his midday steak on a spade
held over the gang’s brazier. Then he
goes on to Scots pancakes, Scots
scones, potato-scones, Scots oatcakes,
Scots puffpaste, Scots shortbread and
Scots porridge. Never put the milk
into the porridge, he says; it cools it.
Take some hot porridge in your spoon
and dip the spoon into a bowl of nulk.
After these pious genuflections to his
native nurture he goes off on his
travels; and his pages are punctuated by
recipes sauced with memories of
cooks, restaurants, wines and sauces.
His small and casual book is extra-
ordinarily allusive, as may be seen from
the index, which lists 350 dishes, more
than 100 people, 70 wines, 170 places,
45 sauces and about 40 restaurants.
“F.S.”: Shortly to be published in
Paris the most expensive edition of
“Don Quixote” in history. Limited to
190 numbered copies, it starts oft at
10-million francs—£lo,ooo to you—
for the first copy, which will contain
ei°ht original water-color paintings by
Salvador Dali. Copies two, three and
four will cost one. million, the great
Dali having contributed only a single
drawing to them. The remaining 186
copies, with no original Dalis, will be
priced at £95 to £3OO a copy.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 416
Across
I—These are adjacent to the
bulwarks which may be
responsible for a report on
Cambria. (8)
5 \ Melbourne college spirit, (o)
10—Failure to covet the next-door ass
whinny, but be our line steamer.
II Elevate to aristocratic rank. (7)
13 —Knowledge encompasses a great
Shakspearean actoi. (4> .
15— Glut had a seat which Fast
16 — Dance with a sailor insect and
a girl, thanks to our navy
patriot of the Swiss article. (10)
19—Democrats, for example, rent a
fruit warehouse. (5, 5)
2i De goes against the cunent
discomfort. (4)
24 Risk involved in many a Malay
murder 7 (4')
25 Robin in short pants, this being
the time for them. (7)
27 A quack from the Swan s mouth
is a fresh blow for some Aus-
tralians. (9, 6)
29 — Tell about the dead, (6)
30— A nobleman to deface a tomb.
(8)
Down
1 — Xhe forty winks of the young
Meggs biscuit. (10)
2 The most ingenuous lan turned
up with a waistcoat. (7)
3 Amorous roosters may be capital
according to Greeks. (6)
4 (3)
6 Chirpers see a deficiency disease.
(8) ■ ,
7 p ar t of the foot causes a gul
to interrupt toil. (7)
8— A call for attention changed
this. (4) . „
9 Gaelic seer in hiding. (4)
12—One in the most superior brute.
(5)
14 —Hippodrome part of the menu
given to the human species. (10)
17 — An Australian river turned up
the finery and the regalia. P)
18 — Man bites dog performers in a
stage play, according to an
informative broadcast. (8)
20 —The influential friend of Kitty
O’Shea, a good round girl. (7)
22 — pish girl in a short musical tail-
piece. (7)
23 — Alone over New Guinea
hooroo! (2, 4)
25 Crazy flier’s clubs. (4)
26 — Our flying force is broken a long
way afield. (4)
28 —Age. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 415


YEARS GUARANTEE
>• • • •
and here's WHY!
This Revolutionary
CENTURY
Home Lighting Battery
has these new and exclusive
features
CLEAR POLYSTYRENE
CONTAINER
You con see the ocid level at a glance.
fjjH GRAVITY INDICATORS
State of charge visible at all times. No need for
hydrometer.
3
HHHX3
The magical new additive giving longer plate life and
increased efficiency.
GLASS INSULATION—
ensures longer life and GREATER POWER.
Ask your garage, electrical
dealer or stock and station
agent —or write direct to the
manufacturers
m
m
m
c
i
H
CENTURY'S NEW Glass Insulated with SILYIUN
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY, Type CFG 2 7
rrrr
IQ
J
These inbuilt visual ball indicators show clearly
and instantly the state of charge ©f the battery
at all times.
r
Glouss Un>suXated
HOME LIGHTING BATTERY
«SILVIUM
Made by
CENTURY
STORAGE
BATTERY
CO. LTD.,
ARE^oSsTRIBirrED^BY:^ 5, TRACTORS ' EARTH MOV,NG EQUIPMENT. MOTOR CYCLES. RADIO.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Century Storage Battery Co.
Ltd., Birmingham Street, Alexandria. Bradley
Bro, Ltd 55-59 & 68-72 Wentworth Aye, Sydney.
jr 7 „ Ld '.' 24 L 2 ew ßr °adway. Sydney. Industrial
Sales &Sery.ce (N.S.W.) Pty. Ltd., Parramatta Road,
wUlTsSee.!tydney Tr * derS U * L ' ? ° Cm "'
5° w K™™libu,; lor Traders (Vic ° Pty - Lid -
QUEENSLAND: P. H. Phillips Battery Supplies Pty.,
458 Brunswick Street, Brisbane. Plant & Plant
(Machinery) Pty. Ltd., 323-325 Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba. Samuel Allen & Sons Ltd., Townsville.
Wyper Bros. Ltd., Bundaberg. Advanx Tyre & Motor
Service, 61 Sheridan Street, Cairns. Lawrence Motor
Company, Bolsover Street, Rockhampton. Corser &
Co. Pty., Ellena Street, Maryborough. Gympie
Machinery & Electrical Coy., Mary Street, Gympie.
Jas. Croker & Sons, Mackay.
VICTORIA: Century Storage Battery Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Macaulay Road, North Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Century Batteries (S.A.) Ltd.
(Sole Concessionaires), 15 Ackland Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Attwood Motors Pty. Ltd.,
22 Stirling Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: C. C. Boag Batteries, 86 Bathurst Street,
Hobart: 224 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
NORTH AUSTRALIA: Allen Bros. (Darwin) Pty.
Ltd., Darwin.
