

mm
I
SWE
SOLERO
E T OR DRV
The Bulletin
"She Wore Frangipani”— page 34
Wednesday, May 8, 1957
Price I/-
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered iii Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
KILCHURN CASTLE, ARGYLL,
SCOTLAND.
ARGYLL is a land- of ancient castles which'
figured in the Highland battles'of long ago.'
One of these is Kilchurn, illustrated here, a
picturesque ruin which stands on an island ?at
the head of Loch Awe. . It. is one of three
important castles, each standing originally on a
small island and indicating the strategic import-
ance of the lo£h to the warring clans of the loth
and 10th centuries. Loch Awe is the largest .fresh-
water loch in Argyll, measuring'twenty miles ,in
length, and in summer its (fiiiet surface is broken
by an excursion steamer which plies between the
village of Lochawe and the landing-stage at Ford
in mid-Argyll. *
Kilchurn Castle was built about the year 1440
by Sir Colin Campbell of Glenorchy, the uncle
of the first Earl of Argyll and ancestor of the
Breadalbane lamily wdio occupied the fortress
until 1740. Six years later the castle played an
important part in the Jacobite rebellion and
was garrisoned by Government troops. It still
stands in ruined splendour although one of the
lowers was blown down in 1879, by what was
know'll as “The Tay Bridge Gale”—in this storm
the central spans of the bridge were blown down
while a train, carrying 90 passengers, w'as crossing,
ami there were no survivors.
The other two castles on Loch Aive are Fraoch
Eilean, built two centuries earlier than Kilchurn;
and Campbell Castle of Inchconnell which w4ts,
for centuries, the principal stronghold of the
Campbells before they moved to Inveraray.
At the head of Loch Awe is the Pass of Blander,
where, during the turbulent struggles of the early
14th century, a hard-fought battle was fought
between the MacDougalls and the supporters of
King Robert I*
No. 348: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTEK, Bor 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for ycu~flction, text bock,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
RICH HISTORICAL NOVEL
Few incidents in early Australian
history can be more tempting to a
writer than the wreck of the Dutch ship
Batavia on Houtman’s Abrolhos in
1629 —200 years before Perth was
founded.
The story, as Mr. Zanuck might say,
has everything—a mutiny brewing on
the ship with the skipper, Ariaen
Jacobsz, and the under - merchant,
Jeronimus Cornelisz, planning to get
rid of the commander, Francisco Pel-
saert, and embark on a career of piracy ;
the beautiful Lucretia on her way to
join her husband in Batavia and subject
to the unwelcome attentions of the
skipper and the under-merchant; the
wreck on the Abrolhos; the epic
voyage to Batavia for help by the
commander, skipper and some of the
crew; the bloody happenings among
those left on the island, with the whole-
sale murder of men, women and
children, the murderers looting the
wreck, dressing-up in finery and jewels
like mad little potentates, taking what
women they wanted and killing the rest;
and, finally, the return of Pelsaert and
his swift and summary dispensation of
justice.
The story has, of course, been the
subject of innumerable articles and a
few books, including Douglas Stewart’s
verse-play, “Shipwreck.” It will also
undoubtedly be the subject of books
yet to come —the minds and motives
of the central characters invite an
interesting variety of interpretations.
Currently, the story is the subject of
The Wicked and the Fair (Angus and
Robertson), an excellent novel by
Henrietta Drake-Brockman, who, she
notes in her introduction, has been
fascinated by it for 30 years or more. In
gathering her material she seems to
have ranged farther afield and dug
more deeply than any before her—she
has obtained the first full translations
of Pelsaert’s journal recording the
wreck; letters from the then Governor-
General of Batavia; and a copy of Pel-
saert’s Indian Report, “still the sole
contemporary account of Jahangir’s
India as seen by European eyes,” which
serves her well in her background to
Pelsaert. She has also consulted
libraries and museums from Holland to
America, including, of course, Sydney’s
Mitchell Library—some day someone
will catalogue the number of acknow-
ledgments in Australian books to the
Mitchell librarian. Miss Mander Jones.
It is, incidentally, interesting to note
that, of the treasures the Batavia
carried and which were briefly the toys
of cutthroats on an island a few miles
off Geraldton on the Westralian coast,
“the exquisite Rubens vase (not proved,
yet reasonably presumed, to have been
given to Pelsaert himself to trade with
the Great Mogul) delights still the eyes
all who see its classic perfection in the
Walters Gallery at Baltimore; half a
"world away, the great cameo of Caspar
Boudaen, that Rubens himself once
sketched, rests safe and secure in the
Royal Coin Cabinet at The Hague,
beautiful now as when carved with
loving care to acclaim the victory of
the Emperor Constantine in 312.”
Still, however much history has been
poured into The Wicked and the Fair,
it is, inescapably, an historical romance,
and indeed one feels in reading it—
particularly the rather contrived and
unfulfilled love-affair between Lucretia
and Pelsaert—that the author was tom
between the novelist’s need to give the
substance of romantic fiction to the
bare outlines of people, and the his-
torian’s interest in an accumulation of
fascinating detail. That is no bad
thing, however, and the reader can
easily share and appreciate the author’s
twin interests.
Only in the opening passages does
Mrs. Drake-Brockman seem to exceed
herself—as a novel the book might
have been improved had she taken less
than a quarter of it to have reached
the actual wreck, and had she avoided
such awkwardly costumed prose as:
“.To be sure, she had not been so
beguiled by her glorious dreams of
seafarers as not to see soon enough that
it was the glitter of flattery that
brightened the eyes of Ariaen.”
Once into the real substance of the
story the writing is clear and crisp,
with but an occasional lapse into arti-
ficial language ; and the narrative itself
is irresistible, from the time Cornelisz
struggles ashore to lead the mutineers
in their insane savagery until Wouter
Loos and Jan Pelgrom de Bye, who, in
Pelsaert’s justice, were marooned
instead of hanged, sail landwards to
become “the first of all white men to
five in the unknown land of the south,
Australia.”
O. F.
EMBARKATION
The land filled; and the people
had nothing to eat and np room.
They pushed each other into death
J fts into a dark river.
Indeed there was no standing
and no lying down for the living.'
Those nearest the cold edge
faced fear and wild water.
Drag the great double canoe
into the fear which is water,
the water which is the other death,
the death by waves of those dead by
hunger. '
Countries were hauled in the old time
from the sea’s hollows
at the world’s fence of distance
by hunger that went fishing ;
yet to live past drowning is elsewhere
a dying from this place :
the death by parting.
They are dead men in the canoe .
And the young women
who will not endure being left
at the back half of parting
go too to drink salt wandering.
The last, of the food and a little water
is not begrudged the lost folk.
New land or a path towards night
is in front of them ; nothing behind them
but us who remain
with a little more room to die in
and one less canoe to be buried in
on this bank of the death by parting.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
A Children's Encyclopaedia
It cannot reasonably be expected of
any reviewer, even those of scholastic
attainment high enough to be employed
by “The Bulletin” (failed LL.B., Vic-
toria College, 1931, for example) that
he should be able to cope with all
the intricacies of an encyclopaedia;
the best he can do is check on what
he does know.*
And if, skimming through the
“Factual Index” volume of Newnes
Pictorial Knowledge in the new
“special Australian edition,” he finds
Messrs. Newnes or their learned editors
informing him that a Baluchitherium is
“an extinct animal resembling the
horse and the ox” —possibly the sort
of beasts that are usually backed at
Randwick-—he really cannot do more
than take their .word for it.
Nor, for that matter, can one swear
with absolute assurance that “Pictorial
Knowledge” is right when it asserts
that Bamangwato is “the name of one
of the most important tribes of Bantu
people of the Bechuanaland Protec-
torate.” It is doubtful if anyone in
Australia, except perhaps Mr. Donald
Friend, really knows anything about
the Bamangwato.
On the other hand, it seems as indis-
putable as it is informative that
bamboos are “giant grasses,” that the
Baltic is “a sea of Northern Europe”
and —though surely he is not spelt
{“Red Page” continued on page 58)


“We demanded the International AS-148-
*
vi-
m
;
■ •<- >
I
and we got the truck we wanted” agreed the
Australian farmer
and builder!
!V-
-a*
/
?
L
“Yes, the International AS-148 was design-
ed and built at Dandenong, Victoria, to
exactly fit out truck requirements.”
“We needed at least tons capacity,” said
the Builder, “but with power and stamina,
low initial and running costs, a convenient
‘close to 40 inches’ tray height to allow
easier man-handling of bulky building
materials.” His friend nodded. “We
farmers wanted enough chassis length to fit
a large stock-crate when needed, and w©
really use that full 11' 6" x 7' 6" tray area.
We wanted cab comfort—excellent visi-
bility and conveniently placed controls,
because those bush tracks can be mighty
long and rough.”
“Yes, the International AS-148 is the truck
we demanded ! She will suit a lot of other
trucking jobs, too.”
I. H. Dealers for Sales and Service in all Important centres.
II
u
INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ALL TRUCK BUILT TO SAVE YOU THE BIG MONEY!
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OE AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
FMT-751/3A


The Bulletin
Vol. 78—No. 4030
Wednesday, May 8, 1957
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; 'Phone. BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 6 4 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
V> estralia : 33 Barrack Street, Penh.
New Zealand: Nathans Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
JAPAN IN THE WORLD
THERE was something odd about the
calm surrounding Mr. Menzies’s visit
to Tokyo. A few years ago it would
have been the centre of a stormy con-
troversy. • '
Dr. Evatt and his supporters tried of
yore to make an issue of attempts by
the Menzies Government to enter into
amicable relationship with the
Japanese, this although before the war
Labor, headed especially by Frankie
Forde of Capricomia, had been urging
the need for an Australian-Japanese
trade-friendship as a primary defence-
measure.
That Mr. Menzies went away to
Tokyo by Qantas aircraft —a means of
travel which has already brought the
Japanese capital within 24 hours’ reach
of Sydney —without a single yell of
“Pig-iron Bob” is indicative of the
changes which the last twelve years
of history have wrought. And it can
only be hoped that the trends of the
present will continue, as they
show signs of doing. Both countries,
and Japan in particular, appear to have
learned the sad lesson that peace is
more rewarding than war; and the wise
moderation of the command of the
Occupational forces has turned a sullen
quarrel (which persisted for years, its
irritation fanned with malign intent by
Moscow) to good account in the
interests of future accord.
Several important factors have arisen
which make the Pacific Ocean situation
different from that which produced
war in 1941. For one thing, Japan’s
fear of the United States has gone.
For another, the fear of Communism
has been intensified through the clumsy
militancy of the Russians (abetted by
Dr. Evatt) during the Occupation
period. For a third. Japanese industiy
and trade have become more dependent
than ever on Western techniques and
resources and on those things which
are unobtainable either from China
or Russia.
Only one main condition remains
stable in the Japanese picture —that
country’s intensifying fight for a foot-
hold in the world and for means to
feed and clothe a population which,
on 30,000 fewer square miles than the
Empire occupied before the war, now
carries 90,000.000 people—l2,ooo,ooo
more than before the war, despite the
losses through battle and bombing.
Peace in the future depends on how
the Western world as a whole handles
the problem of helping the Japanese
to cope with this situation, which is
becoming worse each year with a
normal addition to the population of
about 4,000,000.
The Japanese have made an amazing
recovery in production and trade since
the end of the war. They have had to
face the same currency difficulties, the
same shortages (particularly of
shipping), the same dislocations of
external commerce as other beaten
countries.
They have had to face them while
under restraint, and outcast from the
United Nations, and under continual
threat from Russia and Red China. The
manner in which their difficulties have
been overcome advertises the immensity
of the country’s potentials, either as a
friend or as an enemy.
Despite the determination of Japan,
which causes its friends some unease,
to arm at minimum level, a war-
potential is still there in its heavy
industries, a great and tempting prize
for the Communist nations if they
needed it badly enough.
Since December 18 last Japan has
been a member of the United Nations,
after being twice vetoed by the Soviet
Union—though so far it has been a
very cautious member. It is significant
that it was after Mr. Menzies visited the
country that its voice began to be heard
more clearly abroad.
Within the U.N. its attitude has been
neutral and apparently disinterested,
and its part in debates has been
marked by a quiet moderation which
was most noticeable in those on Suez
after its admission. The Asian-African
bloc have found Japan only- a very
weak supporter. Indeed, its influence
has gone a long way towards watering-
down the extremism of many of the
smaller countries whose delegations
have been wont to speak the Com-
munist argot.
As stated by one of Japan’s leading
journals, the Tokyo view is that the
U.N. should not become “an anti-
communist club,” that-Japan’s natural
place is in Asia, but that it will achieve
its greatest influence if it seeks to act
as a bridge between the West and the
Afro-Asian world.
This is a rational outlook and one
which the West should foster so long
as the trends remain as they are.
Mr. Menzies said on his return that
the one great thing —short, of course,
of world war—which could disturb the
peace of the Pacific would be a frus-
trated Japan. History has proved him
right already, for it was frustration
bom of the abandonment of the Anglo-
Japanese alliance and of the checks
placed on Japanese expansion to pro-
vide room for its population which
undoubtedly sowed the seeds of the
temptations which led to the Japanese
aggression of 1941.
There is, as the Prime Minister said,
a great field for tolerance in the settle-
ment of Japan’s problems of intercourse
with this country, especially with
respect to such matters as balance of
payments. So long as both countries
realise the nature of the clear-cut task
—as set down by Mr. Menzies —“to
bring Japan back into the community
of nations to the general advantage of
economic peace and development”—-
the road ahead seems free of really
major obstacles, outside Communist
pressures.
Everything should be done to
promote mutual improvement of
relations. Travel, telecommunication
(which is to be speeded up), and
Japan’s increasing requirements of wool
and metals all tend to favor more
closely-knit trade association.
The Governor's Levee
THOSE Australians (male) wishing to
shake the hand of N.S.W. Governor
Sir John Northcott (one of the best
Governors the State has had) before
his term expires will have the oppor-
tunity of doing so on June 13.
The occasion will be the birthday
celebration of Queen Elizabeth II at
Government House, Sydney.
Sir John is “anxious to receive as
many gentlemen as possible on this
occasion,” and makes it clear that
“gentlemen” includes “men,” and even
reporters and press-photographers.
All gentlemen are welcome at a
levee, and cards of admission are not
necessary. But it is particularly
requested that men attending the levee
provide themselves with a card on
which is printed or typed in capitals,
or written in block-letters, their style
of address for presentation, in order to
facilitate announcement to his
Excellency.
The time is 12 noon, June 13.
Sir John Northcott has been
Governor of N.S.W. since 1946. As
General Northcott he was C.-in-C.
8.C.0.F. in Japan, 1945-46, after a
distinguished career in the A.I.F. during
World War 11. Like a number of
other Australians who have had out-
standing careers (including Norman
Lindsay and John Curtin) he was born
at Creswick, Victoria.


ONE MORE RIVER TO CROSS


PLAIN ENGLISH
Mr. Duggan's Ethics
Around the end of April Queensland
Labor broke-up into its new factions,
when Mr. Duggan, Mr. Gair’s Deputy
Premier, sent his leader his resignation
in a letter which might have been written
by Sir Anthony Eden in one of his more
Oid World moments.
In his public statement which preceded
his retirement from the Ministry and his
assumption of the leadership of “official”
Labor, Mr. Duggan was more forthright
and less Old World.
Mr. Duggan’s ethical outlook in
politics is somewhat peculiar even in the
A.L.P. It seems that at all costs he feels
it the duty of a Minister to be guided not
by the vote of Parliament or the will of
electors, but “by the constitutionally
established and recognised authority of
the Q.C.E.,” which is to be “upheld in
matters and decisions flowing from its
convention, which is the highest and
binding authority.” The rulings of this
snarling junta, he feels, must be obeyed
under all circumstances by persons, in-
cluding Premiers and members of Gov-
ernments, who “give their pledges to
uphold and carry out the decisions of the
convention.”
It is true that, on the main issue between
the Q.C.E. and the convention and the
Gair Government, Mr. Duggan admits
that he voted against the three-weeks’
annual-leave proposal, and “continued
to vote against it as a member of
Cabinet.” Presumably Mr. Duggan
voted on those occasions as his conscience
told him. But the Q.C.E. raises
its whip— to hell with his conscience! In
his philosophy, anybody who goes against
a Q.C.E. ruling—he lisps in Pink argot—
is “a traitorous diversionist and a party-
wrecker” who “as inexorably as night
follows day” must be “conducted into
political oblivion.” The arch-crime in any
Premier is to “seriously damage the Labor
movement,” and this certainly is what
Mr. Gair seems to have done.
For one thing there is his behavior
over the “slush fund,” which Mr.
Bukowski claims to be an election
fighting-fund but which both he and
others say was obtained from the most
foul and tainted capitalist sources by Mr.
Gair. None of them seems to be deterred,
however, by the odor which is said to
hang about the money, from trying to
get his hands on it to fight a campaign,
and Mr. Bukowski especially is outraged
because one of Mr. Gair’s last acts as
leader of the party was to draw out the
lot and close the account. Threats of
legal action were heard being uttered
loudly during the week.
The position as this is written seems to
be that Mr. Gair has 24 supporters (him-
self included) and a mandate from the
Governor as Premier. He also has had
Parliament prorogued until June 7, so
that, despite the screams for vice-regal
action. Labor has no vyay of touching
h'm till then
Politically Queensland is a seething
welter of bargaining, threats, mad rushes
to get candidates endorsed before Parlia-
ment meets. And strewn around are the
gentry promising to bring out skeletons
and bad smells. It is not an edifying
scene.
The outcome should test whether
Queensland is a State which has become
wholly corrupt politically and whether
Parliament is worth, retaining in face of
the fact that Labor’s new political leader
has publicly admitted that he will con-
sider himself in office only a rubber-stamp
for Messrs. Bukowski, Schmella and Co.
Helping White Hand
All parties in Victoria propose to
give a clear passage to the Govern-
ment’s bill to provide housing, education
and employment for aborigines, and,
allowing for the vagaries of the Legisla-
tive Council, it may be proclaimed as an
Act before the present short sittings are
ended.
Chief Secretary Rylah has acted with
characteristic dispatch (though this is
understandable, since there has been no
alteration in the law on aborigines since
1886) in producing the bill. It is only a
few months since Charles McLean, the
former chief-magistrate, made a report
on the aborigine population.
The bill follows very much McLean's
direct and implied recommendations,
providing for the appointment of a board
of nine (chiefly representative of depart-
ments which can assist in the rehabilita-
tion plan), an aborigine and an anthropo-
logical expert, as well as a superintendent
of aboriginal welfare, no doubt to ensure
that the board’s policy is carried out
effectively.
One of the most interesting clauses of
the bill empowers the board to manage
and regulate reserves (and any it may
acquire) for the use of the aborigines and
to sell produce. This will enable the
board, if it is courageous enough and is
not balked at a Ministerial or depart-
mental level, to establish efficient pro-
ducing communities.
In its more benevolent clauses, the bill
enables the supply of clothing, bedding,
rations and medical attention not other-
wise obtainable ; the erection of houses
for the worthier families and the appli-
cation of money provided by the Treasury
for their welfare.
Edward Cunningham
[l'rom “Collins Street’’]
Old-timers of the defunct Melbourne
“Argus,” when it was sere before it
was yellow, remember Sir Edward Cun-
ningham, who died in Melbourne last
week, as the most notable of its string of
highly independent editors who kept
newspaper-proprietors in their place.
The paper’s conservatism was
Cunningham’s, and so was its con-
tent: accurate, fair and dreary. There
was no front-page news, and the chief
page was devoted to cables, most fre-
quently about the obscure committees of
the League of Nations or a visit to the
Zoo by some member of the Royal
family, with a murder mystery, no matter
how fascinating, or other human story
relegated to a back page.
At 10.30 each weeic-night Cunningham
put on his bowler, picked up his worn
brief-case and departed, although the
Titanic may have gone down.
He was 97 when he died at South
Yarra. Cunningham’s interest in political
questions began with his friendship, as
a political reporter, with Sir Henry
Parkes and Altred Deakin ; and it was
nurtured by Billy Hughes ; but his re-
portage included an interview with Peter
Lalor, on the Eureka Stockade, and he
met Ned Kelly.
He retired in 1928. For most of his last
years as editor the “Argus” was giving
away its profits of £IOO,OOO a year or so
to Victorian charities.
O
Exit Royal Navy
What has happened to the majesty of the
Royal Navy, as it was announced by tne
First Lord of the Admiralty to the U.K.
Parliament, makes sad reading.
The old Navy is in its death-throes, and
the development of the new one is only
in its beginnings.
It is to be seen in embryo in the new
guided-missile destroyers, with the anti-
aircraft “sea-slug,” of which four
specimens are on the way. These ships
will have powerful armament and a
considerable range, and they will be
larger than-the conventional’types of fleet-
escort—something a trifle smaller than the
modern Darings, but with tremendous
hitting-power and versatility. What their
future is nobody seems sure, as the “sea-
slug” is only in the experimental phases.
One modern carrier is under construc-
tion —to make a total of three when
finished. She will be the first vessel in
service with a fully angled flight-deck and
new radar and landing-gear control-
systems. She will be equipped to arm her
aircraft with air-to-air missiles.
In the cruiser-bracket —always pride of
the Navy —the eight cruisers on the
active list are due to go within the next
two years, to be replaced by three Tiger-
class cruisers due to begin coming into
service in 1959. These will have fully
automatic 3in. and 6in. guns of
devastating fire-power.
Four of the five battleships now exist-
ing in reserve —King George V, Duke of
York, Anson and Howe, all known to
Australian harbors—will be scrapped this
year, leaving only Vanguard.
Among the submarines, the
atomically powered Dreadnought and
new peroxide-driven vessels will be com-
pleted this year. They won’t be opera-
tional, but will be used for tactical
training for “dealing with the high-speed
submarines which we must be prepared to
encounter in the future.” They are prob-
ably the fastest underwater boats in the
world —nearly 30 knots, it is Said.
It is clear that the role of the R.N. in
nuclear war has not yet been fixed by the
theorists. It lives in the twilight between
the old and new ages—such of it as is
left.
But its aircraft are in keeping with the


advanced thinking. The Supermarine
fighter (Scimitar N 113), which can carry
an atomic bomb, is expected to be added
to fleet-aircraft in 1958, and the DH 110
and the new strike-aircraft NA39, which
have fired air-to-air guided-missiles, are
still under development.
It seems a sad story for the U.K. Even
more so for the R.N.
The D.L.P.
The Democratic Labor Party got off to
a reasonable start in its conference in
Sydney, attended by 200 members. It
was held with a refreshing absence of the
manceuvrings of agenda-committees and
suchlike which always reveal the wolf-
in-the-lambskin at A.L.P. congresses.
Discussion was free, frank and various,
and if the task was not achieved —“to
forge a policy which will distinguish us
from other parties”—it is probably be-
cause live policies can’t be manufactured.
They are born of public need if they are
to live. Merely manufactured, they bear
the same relationships to real policies as
squeaking dolls to humans.
However, the conference demonstrated
that there is a need for something new
and middle-of-the-road and that it is felt
by all sorts and sizes of political thinkers.
There were germs of some new and
good ideas —for instance, the taxation of
the wages of juveniles to remove the
stimulus of inflation and’ to help young
people to save, the tax-deductions to be
restored —with bank-interest, if is to be
hoped—at a stated age or on marriage.
There also were some old ones adopted
by everybody but the Evatt Group —
support of the internationalisation of Suez,
and of Seato “as the only effective defence
organisation of Australia” and opposition
to the recognition of Red China.
The delusions of the old Labor party
were obvious, particularly in the resolu-
tions carried dealing with monopolies ;
but there was more sense in them than
in most of those allowed to be debated
by normal A.L.P. agenda committees.
The conference at least made an attempt
to think out a system of wage-fixing
indexes and margins and of relating them
to particular industries —a considerable
step towards rationalisation, and in strong
contrast to the A.L.P. policies of apply-
ing the highest common denominator
throughout the whole wage-structure.
With S.A., W.A. and Tasmania now
united with the N.S.W. mother-party, and
with a Tasmanian spokesman in the
Senate, the D.L.P. can consider itself
launched. It may not win many seats at
the next election, but it will get a'lot of
votes, and act as a brake on
the Parliamentary power of the extreme
Labor Left. It represents the germ
of the new Labor party of “little
capitalists” and Right intellectuals and
the swinging vote of the borderland
between Labor and Liberalism.
It is suggested that it may be joined
by Mr. Gair of Queensland. For its own
sake, it is to be hoped the suggestion has
no basis. If it is to live and be useful,
opportunism should have no part in the
D.L.P.’s make-up. And Mr. Gair is an
opportunist as barefaced as any of those
who oppose him.
The only reason he is where he is lies
in the fact that his Government cannot
face without bankruptcy the three-weeks’
holiday proposal which has been his
downfall.
What of the Indian Ocean?
[From “Stromlo”]
Little or no attention is being paid on
the eastern side of Australia —which
includes Canberra, of course —to the
strong appeal in Western Australia for
the construction of a naval base in that
State. Arguments in its favor include the
loss of bases in Ceylon, the uncertainties
in the Middle East (including Aden and
Cyprus) and in the Far East (including
the future of the Singapore base), the
activity of Russian submarines in the
Indian Ocean as well as in the Pacific and
Atlantic Oceans, and the relinquishing by
Britain of the Simonstown base to South
Africa.
The W.A. project, which includes a base
at either Fremantle or Albany, has been
officially described in Canberra as of low
priority, and it may be regarded as of
even less importance now that the role
of the Navy, like that of the other
Services, is being revised. At the same
time, aircraft-carriers are not being dis-
carded, and a base which could service
them and their attendant destroyers
would certainly be of value in an area of
our continent so close to both Asia and
the Middle East.
A new argument, not yet raised
officially, is the reported attention being
paid by Ceylon to the Maidive Islands,
where an air-station is being established
by the Royal Air Force to replace one
lost in Ceylon itself. The Maldives are
as important to Australia in global
strategic considerations as the Cocos
Islands, which are now a part of the
Commonwealth, and their future should
be causing some concern in Canberra.
The Ceylonese Prime Minister, Mr.
S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, recently
expressed a desire for “closer relations”
with the Maldives, which “in the colonial
era paid tribute to Ceylon Governors.”
He was “not thinking of imperialist and
colonial expansion now, but of much
closer relations between the two
countries.”
One British newspaper said the Ceylon
move was “behavior dangerously near
playing the enemy’s game,” and asked if
Mr. Bandaranaike wanted to overturn a
peaceful protectorate or to upset the
arrangements for an R.A.F. station. It
expressed regret that a member-State of
the Commonwealth (although one with
republican ambitions) should want “to
tweak the battered old lion’s tail and pull
more hairs out of his dilapidated mane.”
Maintenance of peaceful communica-
tions in an uncertain world and vital con-
siderations of defence are associated in
the Maldives venture. They could also
be associated with a base in Western
Australia to supplement those few places
still in British hands in this vast and
crucial area. Perhaps the Maldives move
will awaken Canberra to the increasing,
urgency of decision.
Dilly-dally Daly
[irom Canberra]
The case of Daly, M.H.R. for Grayndler,
must surely illustrate the plight of the
Labor party more convincingly perhaps
than even Gair’s expulsion.
Born 43 years ago as Frederick Michael
Daly, this ex-C.B.C. Waverley boy soon
shot to the forefront in the Labor party.
When “Iron Man” Chifley was at the
peak of his power 10 years ago, Daly was
the young man spoken about in confident
terms as “Ben’s protege.” In 1948 he
was sent on a world junket by Arthur
Calwell to have a look at immigration
possibilities in Britain and Europe, but
on the way home spent such a pleasant
interlude in the United States that he
earned himself the nickname “Dilly-Dally
Daly.” And it’s stuck.
But not nearly so well as the sobriquet
he has worn ever since the Labor party
began to disintegrate under the guiding-
hand of Dr. Evatt.
To the Evattites Daly is a Grouper—-
a “Labor” politician under the influence
of an outside organisation. Not an out-
side organisation like a party-machine
which might be compared with, say, an
elected Government, but an outside
organisation like the Catholic Church,
which hates Communists and distrusts Dr.
Evatt.
Forgotten are the days when Daly was
party Whip ; even Calwell is loth to speak
to him these days for fear that some of
the Grouper stain will rub off on his
jumpy frame. Daly’s latest move has
made him more of an outcast; no one
sides with him except perhaps a handful
of his fellow-Groupers who are with him
sink or swim. That they will sink now is
almost a certainty. And it’s all because
Daly dilly-dallied too long.
He left it too late —until Gair was
finished —to question who was running
the Labor party, an extreme Left-wing in-
dustrial machine or elected members of
Parliament.
He and his friends could see the writing
on the wall months ago, with Left-wing
executives taking over State A.L.P.
branches in Victoria and then N.S.W.
Why didn’t the moderates try to do some-
thing to stop the rot then? The answer
is all too obvious. They didn’t dare risk
their Parliamentary jobs and “perks.”
Now we have the brave prospect of
Daly supporting fellow-Grouper Gair,
through what must be an abortive
motion, before the Federal Labor caucus.
Before Evatt could defer his motion,
Daly told caucus the A.L.P. should
assure the people that it stood for the
freedom of judgment of its Parliamentary
members and the supremacy of the
authority of Parliament over the power
of the party-machine.
On Dr. Evatt’s ruling last Wednesday
Daly’s motion will be debated in the
party-room today (May 8), and the
pattern is so familiar that the loose ends
can be tied-up now.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
MY Latvian co - tobacco -grader
likes to while away the tedious
hours every Monday telling me about
the films she saw in the weekend, includ-
ing the current instalment of “Boofalo
Bill.” She doesn’t usually get too fouled-
up with the language, but had me properly
stumped.yesterday with a movie she swore
was called “Seven Months Madonna.”
Some quiet research on the part of one
of the kids came up with the answer,
“Madonna of the Seven Moons.” —
“Banana.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Zake”: The old duck had pondered
long before buying the Washington
navel. There followed a catechism on
how to grow it. Finally she said: “And
when will it start bearing?” The long-
suffering nurseryman replied: “Weil,
madam, it will flower in early August
. . .” “But I don’t want something that
just flowers, I want it to get fruit off!”
♦;« ♦:«
“Swelpme”: From the other side of
the counter I could see a girl in the
office. She stopped in her work, looked
puzzled, then began to add-up—on her
fingers! She was sitting at an adding-
machine.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Wandana”: A variation of the hobby-
ist who collects cast-iron decorated
money-boxes in the form of grinning
figures which pop pennies into the
mouth has turned up in Hobart —during
Easter one of the new street partcing-
meters went missing from its standard.
The possibility of the hobby extending is
giving the City Fathers concern.
❖ *J> <t*
“Crow-eater”: The Melbourne laborer
who discovered that a building-company
had erected a £2OOO house on his land
by mistake and got a verdict giving him
ownership of the house reminds me of
my own home-town in S.A. a bit over
half a century ago. The Wesleyans built
their minister a stone parsonage, and
had arranged a b : g do when the circuit
stewards were
waited on by a man
who mentioned
quietly that the new
house was on his
property. They had
to buy the block
and the house which
they’d already paid
for. Whether they
mentioned the seller
in their prayers, or
how, is another
matter.
❖ ❖
“D.P.”: “Tabba”
somehow managed
to motor a long
way north befo r e
striking the “To
Hell” sign in fiery
letters. Our Queens-
land road-authority
seems to have
neglected the stretch
of road between
Stanthorpe and the
Border since the transport-tax question
was burst wide open ; so that on the out-
skirts of Stanthorpe is a huge sign “Rock
and Roll Road —Stanthorpe to Wallan-
garra.” And the signwriter really knew
just what he was stating when it comes
to potholes in a main road.
❖ ♦> ♦>
“Old Mac”: Four-year-old evidently
thought the window-curtains were suffi-
ciently transparent when he was inter-
viewed by a tea-agent at the back door.
“Hello, Tuppence. Is your mother at
home?” “Yes, she’s home.” “Can I see
her?” “Yes, she’s in the barf-room
washin' sheself: if you look frough that
window you can see her.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Doynest”: Having always under-
stood that the metho. addict was The
Bottom, I was amazed to read in Sir
Percy Sillitoe’s autobiography, Cloak
Without Dagger, that “for anyone who
can stand the taste of it, methylated spirit
is probably a healthier drink than
whisky.” More amazing still, Sir Percy,
Chief Constable of Glasgow from 1931
to 1942 (he later became Director-General
of the British Security Service), says that
he was assured of the truth of this state-
ment by the Glasgow police surgeons!
* * *
“Pelga”: The new Australian stamp
appears to show a couple leaning against
their tastefully decorated sitting-room
mantelpiece. A goodly fire burns in the
grate below. The man, properly called
“Courage,” is obviously showing his
spouse an unmended garment. But what
is his wife, “Faith,” doing? Surely all
her fruit will fall into the fender if she
holds the cornucopia upside-down.
❖ ❖ *
“Ex-Purser”: Surely “Doynest” (B.
24/4/’57), who expresses surprise that
marriage at sea by ship’s captain has
"I Wouldn't be telling you my problems, Miss Fission ,
but my wife doesn't understand me."
followed keel-hauling and flogging, must
be very young or very credulous. Has he
any proof that the Master (the official
and correct title; captain is only a
popular and honorary one) of any British
merchant-ship at any period was com-
petent, whatever he presumed or pur-
ported to do, to marry persons at sea?
It is well over fifty years since first I made
the acquaintance of an official log-book
in which had to be recorded for the in-
formation of the Board of Trade all
happenings of note to ship, and
passengers and which had printed at the
foot of each page, “The Master is
reminded that he has no power to per-
form the marriage-ceremony.”
<£♦ *!♦
“Sister Ellell”: As the Old Grey Mares
swung down a side-street near the end of
the Anzac March we passed shop-
windows displaying furnishings; one
showing a female figure reclining in bed.
Said one of the O.G.M.s, “Gosh! How
I envy her!”
SOCIAL FORMS
“I have sat in divorce jurisdiction for tour
years, and in not more than one suit tor
restitution of conjugal rights each year has tne
petitioner really wanted his wife back.” — Mr.
Justice Dovey, reported in Sydney “Telegraph.
When men and wives
Give love the s..t c,
Each pair connives
At asking-back
Not that they cate
For conjugal r \>r, ;
They want to appear
To be polite.
But who would take
Advantage of
Such duck-and-drake
Decoys of love?
If you agree
To go, well, then.
You may not be
Asked home again !
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


"No, thanks, I'm trying
to give it up.”
“Damn' shame to see them split-up so early."
“Sunray”: A gripping play, reception
clear, sound coming through well—but
the electrical dealer had not provided the
footpath-audience with anything to sit
on. They stood first on one foot, then
the other; then on the edges of their feet;
and then leaned on one another . . .
which gave the boy-friend his big idea:
he drove the baby-car head-on to the
footpath, left his tail-light on to warn
approaching vehicles, and invited his
girl-friend to a lounge-seat at the TV !
“Cee-em”: As a fairly regular pas-
senger in pressurised aircraft at heights
up to 25,000 ft. I’m keenly interested in
the inquiry into the “blowing-out” of a
window and disappearance of a pas-
senger who was sleeping alongside it.
There have been a few earlier instances
of the same thing, and it seems pas-
sengers will have to keep belts on, or the
airlines will have to put a rod across the
big windows they use as drawcards. The •
view might be spoiled a little, but most
people would rather look at it than
become part of it.
*l* *
“Apemantus”: The Royal Zoological
Society reports the gift by her Majesty’s
Customs of “eleven red-faced love-birds,”
seized as contraband. Red-faced love-
birds are normally refused entry to
Britain unless bona-fide domestic pets.
A more moral view would be to insist on
their bona-fides as love-birds, but this
would perhaps exclude too many film-
stars who, if not customarily described as
“red-faced,” ought to be.
■£♦
“Bo”: The proscenium of Sydney’s
Conservatorium of Music is supported by
two gigantic columns, and I have noted,
recently that the cracks in the cardboard
have gradually become wider ; the column
nearest Government House is assuming
a dogleg shape—whether because of
construction-work going on just outside,
or the efforts of some practising colora-
tura, I don’t know. But how can one
listen with the thought gnawing that an
injudiciously loosed sneeze may bring the
whole edifice toppling—like a house of
cardboard?
❖ ❖ ❖
“Mackville”: The New Australian
watching the Anzac March was moved to
emit a strange throaty “00-oo” at the
things that really impressed him. The
mounted police received such recogni-
tion ; so did the more resplendent bands.
An extra loud one acclaimed the chap
in civvies whose manipulations of the
drum-major’s staff would have shunned
some of the Tiv.’s best jugglers. Every
one of the numerous Scotch bands re-
ceived the award. Then came the Scots
lassies. They really rocked him. “00-oo-
oo!” he exclaimed, looked around for
somebody to enthuse to, and delivered:
“Goot, they are. Nice 1. . .”—I still don’t
know whether he said “lasses” or “legses,”
but heartily agreed with him on both
counts.
“Sunray”: She knew his age, approxi-
mately, and his height, she assured (he
patient shop-assistant over and over
again, was five-foot-ten and surely he
could tell from that what size he would
need. “Madam,” the shop-assistant said,
“it’s not a question of age with under-
pants ; and it’s not a question of height.
The question is, does he go in or out at
the middle?”
THE NEVER-FAILING OMEN
“The romantic poets popularised the many
harbingers of spring. But, apart from the
falling leaf, what songs of winter have been
sung?” —Radio speaker.
The mating-call heard
From the joyous bird;
The burgeoning bud
And the stir of the blood
Are unfailing,
In letting you know
You’ve not long to go
Before, with a zing,
Right into the spring
You’ll be sailing.
But when winter’s near
You may think it queer
That there’s only the tint
Of a leaf for a hint
You’ll be nearing
The seasonal trend
When the pub you attend
At the five-to-six scrum,
And you note more rum
Is appearing.
Woollen underpants, dredged
From some drawer; the pledged
Overcoat out of hock ;
Butter hard as a rock —-
These could very
Well be pointers sound.
Yet on safer ground
You’ll be when you gink
Invitation to drink
“Tom and Jerry.”
The thoughts of a sneeze
In the first iced breeze ;
Thoughts of stripping to nil
In a bathroom chill
Make you shudder;
Yet, before these come
You will see the rum
Being poured by nip.
Well, here’s to that tip,
Eh, brudder ?
N.s.w.
S. W. K.


ViyHEN an Australian at a U.S.
" university began to feel chtiiy
he told a fellow-student and was
advised to “Buy some Sloppy Joes. You
wear them under your shirt and forget
what it’s iike to feel cold.” In a giant
emporium where you can buy almost
anything the floorwalker looked a bit
surprised, but gave the necessary direc-
tions. The Australian found himself in
a section devoted to religious books and
sacred pictures. He’d asked for the Holy
Joes’ department.—“Maitri.”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Lorna Doone”: Tell “W.P.T.” (B.
17/4/'57), who was conducting a mental
search for other business-monickers than
“Blank and Son,” that until recently in
an eastern suburb of Adelaide there was
displayed for all to see, “W. Cheek and
Daughter.” But they’ve sold out now!
“Nick”: Chas. Freeman and Daughter
Pty., Ltd., appears under the classification
“Electroplating Business” in the pink
pages of the Sydney telephone-directory.
“Rexine”: I have seen Benson and
Daughter, hairdressers, and Ashley and
Daughter, estate-agents. One of the best
known plate-powders is packed by S
and Daughter. A popular sheep-dip has
Cooper and Nephews as the firm’s name.
“X.Y.Z.”: Of two Sydney journalists,
one's daughter is a Mann, while the
ether’s son is a Dorter.
i* *l*
“Ceg”: Making banking-chambers
look like hot-houses is by no means new.
When alterations were being made to the
Bank of England about 100 years ago a
temporary building was erected in a
garden which formerly had been the
churchyard of St. Christopher-le-Stocks.
The bank’s directors, who overlooked the
garden from their beautiful room, gave
orders that the fine lime-trees must not
be injured. So the trunks of the trees
were contained in the temporary building
and passed through the roof, leaving some
of the branches in the office, where the
increased heat caused them to put forth
their leaves earlier than usual. Buried
in this garden (under the building) was
an employee of the bank whose relatives
feared his extraordinary height might
interest resurrectionists and doctors in
his skeleton. I make Australian banks a
present of the idea for their safe-custody
departments—they might as well have
everything.
*> »j«
“Roger Mike”: Doctors and nurses
aren’t the only ones who use the part
to refer to the whole (B. 13/3/57). Mrs.
-X was describing some of her elder
daughter’s symptoms, and I asked
whether the younger showed similar
trouble. “Oh, no!” she said. “She’s not
a kidney, she’s a liver!” Eric Partridge
lists this usage as synecdoche and traces
it as far back as Virgil’s Anna viruni-
que cano —“I sing of arms and the man.”
Modern publicity-merchants use it often,
as witness “The Pelvis.”
♦> * *
“Ailsey”: The N.S.W. Railway
Department has had the Ebasco
efficiency-experts on the premises for a
few months to find ways of making the
railways pay, but maybe the local boys
can show the New York experts a point
or two. When a man who had been in
the department for 54 years retired the
other day it was found he was shy of a
cap-badge, valued at 7s. 7d. Before he
got his “ticket” he had to fork out the
7s. 7d.
\
“C.A.A.”: She left ihe city emporium
at closing-time in a daze and her work-
smock and hurriedly joined the home-
going throngs, a zip-fastener steadily
falling down the middle of her back. She
walked a block unconscious of the
billowing smock which almost left her as
she boarded a tram. Alas, I was going
to another suburb ; both girl and situa-
tion showed so much promise . . .
❖ * *
“Kenyas”: Having secured the services
of an eminent university-professor to
lecture for our society, we sent off an
advertisement to the daily. It appeared
among the entertainment-notices instead
of in the lecture-column, and looked fine,
though we thought it might have been
more fitting if it hadn’t been placed
cheek-by-jowl with the ad. of another
“professor” publicising his Punch-and-
Judy show.
*:♦ ❖
“El Arem”: It puzzles me why records
which have gone unbroken for years
should suddenly fall, not to one con-
tender, but to several. After Hillary, one
after another of the Himalayan peaks
have toppled to the mountaineers, so that
now you have to pay the Government of
Nepal for the privilege of climbing them.
According to the A.B.C. they are rated
on a sliding scale—£3oo for Everest,
£2OO for others over 25,000 ft., and £lOO
for those between twenty and twenty-five
thousand. Next they’ll be fining the four-
minute milers for speeding!
DRIVE IN


V&Afc, Go irt&oe, G&r m rue
jeuePHONe anp w£'ll hav£
A ££AC TALK. . /y


POLITICAL POINTS
An old lady in Sydney says she’s not
going to buy any tickets in Cahill’s Opera
House Lottery—she wouldn’t know what
to do with the thing if she won it.
• •
Q.C.E. secretary Schmella: “The
present position is untenable for the
people of Queensland, who don’t know
who governs them.” Well, at least they
know who’s been trying to govern them.
The Q.C.E.
• •
Asked to confirm or deny reports that
he had told a Country-party conference
in Queensland that the Government was
opposed to uniform-taxation Artie Fadden
dodged the policy side of the question,
but left no doubt of his own attitude;
“I reaffirm what I have said time and
time again, that I am totally opposed to
uniform-taxation. Only a mule of a
Treasurer would not be opposed to it.”
• •
Between January 1, 1950, and Decem-
ber 31, 1956, a total of 62,264 persons
were granted naturalisation certificates,
Immigration Minister Townley told the
Reps, last week. Poles (11,168) were the
biggest national group; then came
Italians (7901), Hungarians (6227), Dutch
(4479), Yugoslavs (4552), Latvians (4380),
Czechs (4359), Greeks (2636), Ukrainians
(2569), and Germans (2006). More than
40 nationalities were represented on the
list, apart from 3023 persons listed as
Stateless and 117 lumped-together as
“others.” This last classification presum-
ably covered national groups too small
for separate mention, which would make
them small indeed, as the main list gives
separate mention to 5 Portuguese, 4
Filipinos, 2 Brazilians, 2 Jordanians and
one Costa Rican.
• •
Vic. Premier Bolte has taken his
courage in both hands and promised
there’ll be no increases in train- or tram-
fares, gas- or electricity-charges in the
next financial year. Any other Premier
like to trump that by promising lower
fares or cheaper lighting?
• •
A Queensland reader with a liking for
omens and portents points out that in the
Telephone Directory the address of both
the A.W.U. and the A.L.P. in Longreach
is Galah-street. Furthermore, that the
“thought for the day” on his desk calen-
dar for May 6 —Queensland’s Labor Day
holiday—is “When rogues fall out
honest men get their own.”
As the N. S. Wales coal industry has
lost most of its inter-State markets it
might be expected that it would be taking
special pains to hang on ,to those still
remaining. Yet apparently the S.A. Elec-
tricity Trust is becoming concerned at the
falling-off in deliveries of coal in recent
weeks. Approach is to be made to the
Joint Coal Board to see if something can
be done to speed-up shipments. It can’t
be a matter of shortage at the pit-top.
Production for the period January 1 to
April 20 was 482,000 tons more than for
the corresponding period last year.
• • i I
Speaker McLeay and Senate president
McMullin are urging the Government to
begin planning a permanent Parliament
House to replace the “temporary” one
opened in 1927. They want it to be
“monumental” and they suggest a world-
wide competition for a design. They
haven’t said where the money’s to come
from to pay for it, but there’s an excellent
precedent for proposing a world-wide
lottery for the purpose.
• •
In the political turmoil of the last fort-
night in Brisbane little has been heard
of the future of the two bills that shook
the State before the final showdown.
O. L. Josephson, promoter, with Gair, of
National Oil, says his company is going
ahead with its original plans, despite the
political crisis. But where will he stand
if Gair’s Oil Act is repealed or never pro-
claimed? Gair’s chances of leading a
majority Government again seem very
slight, and any other kind of Government
likely to emerge from the mess would
almost certainly reverse his policy on this
matter.
It also seems unlikely that the unwanted
University Appeals Board will ever func-
tion. And a darned good job, too.
• •
Jim Fraser, voteless M.H.R. for the
Australian Capital Territory, asked Minis-
ter for the Interior Fairhall whether he
would consider selecting a suitable dele-
gation from the A.C.T. to visit the
new State of Ghana, in West Africa, “so
that they may make, at first hand, in-
quiries of the natives there as to the steps
necessary to be taken in a British com-
munity to secure the right of self-
government, which is at present denied
to the people of Canberra.” The Minister
replied that the answer to the question
was “No,” but that he’d take the first
opportunity to consult the local natives
on it.
• •
“Quorum”: The Federal Govern-
ment’s big headache following the 10s.
rise in the Federal basic wage is how to
stop the £3O million added to wages bills
from contributing to inflation. The
business community has already suggested
a simple way out: abolish payroll-tax,
with its snowballing effect that is passed
on through wholesalers’ and retailers*
margins and reaches the consumer, in
higher prices.
• ' •
Why not refer the Queensland squabble
to U.N.? It would be an admirable fill-in
job for Mr. Hammarskjoeld in between
visits to Cairo.
• •
Besides supplying the bulk of Aus-
tralia’s needs in petrol, diesel- and fuel-
oil the oil-refineries in the various States
are now important contributors to our
export trade. In 1953-54 the value of
exports of petroleum-products was only
£673,000. A year later the figure was
£2,610,000 and in 1955-56 it rose to
£7,934,000. New Zealand was our best
customer ; Singapore second.
• •
The establishment of a Radiation
Advisory Committee under the chairman-
ship of Sir Macfarlane Burnet and
including- scientists with training in
medicine, biology and nuclear physics
should do much to allay genuine public
fears regarding the possible effects of
nuclear-weapon tests. But unless the
committee’s findings tally with the pre-
conceived notions of Evatt, Ward, Haylen
and other Labor-party experts those
gentry will ignore them in the same way
as they have ignored the reassurances of
nuclear-scientists Titterton and Oliphant.
• •
Latest jaunt proposed for Sydney
aldermen is a trip to New Zealand to
study rehousing schemes. Last time it was
a tour of the United States to study park-
ing problems. So far it’s all one-way
traffic. Why not invite aldermen from
other countries to come to Sydney to
study the proper control of fruit-barrows?.
• ©
Both in quantity and value wool
exports for the nine months ended March
31 were well in excess of last year’s,
according to figures issued by the Com-
monwealth Statistician. Weight of wool
exported was 1505 million lb., valued at
£351 million; for the same period in
1955-56 the figures were 887 million
lb.; £232 million. Britain was the biggest
buyer (£84.1 million), then Japan (£77.8
million), France (£54.5) and Italy (£35.2).
• • .
“Metax”: Petrol-rationing in Britain
did the railways a good turn. For the
first four weeks of 1957 passenger-traffic
receipts were up by 22 per cent.
• •
Of Cahill’s proposal for giant lotteries
as a means of financing his Opera House,
Mr. Fairfax’s “S. M. Herald” said the
Premier “deserves great credit for his
vigor and tenacity in advancing, the
scheme.” Mr. Fairfax’s “Sun” hurled all
the brickbats around the place at it.
Heads or tails, he can’t lose.


When the Q.C.E. lifted the lid off the
party’s old oak chest it found nothing
left. Gair had got there first. The
Queensland Premier says he intends to
use the dough “for the purpose for
which it was donated for our
campaign.” There is apparently no doubt
that the money was intended for use in
an election-campaign. The question is—
whose?
The Q.C.E. claims the money rightly
belongs to the A.L.P., from which Gair
has been expelled. Gair claims he is still
the leader of a majority party, elected by
the people, and that his party has every
right to use it. Neither side is quite
right. At the time the- money was
donated (or collected) the Queensland
Parliamentary Labor party was undivided
and Gair was its leader. If the donors
could have foreseen the present mix-up
most of the money would have stayed
in their pockets^
The courts will probably be asked to
decide the future of the treasure, of which
Gair, as Labor Premier, was sole trustee.
As a result of the squabble, guardianship
of party chests in other States may be
considered due for review.
Although there had been suggestions
that the Queensland Country party might
come to an agreement to keep the Gair
Government in office, the joint meeting
of the two Opposition parties decided
against such acjion. Nicklin and Morris
then wrote to the Administrator (Mr.
Justice Mansfield) requesting that Parlia-
ment should be called together on the
grounds that the Gair Government no
longer held a majority in the House and
that it was no longer representative of
the electorate. The Administrator’s reply
was expected to be given on Tuesday,
May 7.
Gair gave no indication as to the
advice he intended to offer the Adminis-
trator, but at the weekend all parties
were preparing for an early election.
Duggan, formerly Gair’s deputy and now
leader of official Labor, celebrated his
change by jumping straight into the fray
with a couple of electioneering meetings.
Bukowski announced that his team woqld
be getting campaign assistance from
Labor Premiers Cahill, Cosgrove and
Hawke, and Opposition-leaders Cain and
O’Halloran.
The three Premiers promptly said they
hadn’t received any invitation. What they
probably didn’t realise is that Bukowski
isn’t accustomed to issuing invitations to
Premiers. He just gives ’em orders.
• •
At its first annual conference at the
weekend the Democratic Labor party
accepted a plan for a basic wage fixed on
a productivity index. In practice the plan
provides for two indexes —one to deter-
mine national productivity and the other
the rate of productivity in individual
industries. K. Davis, who read the con-
ference a paper outlining the plan, said
that margins and other allowances would
be fixed according to the index for par-
ticular industries. If this means varying
rates for the same work in different indus-
tries it doesn’t seem to have much hope
of acceptance. What margin, for instance,
would the productivity of the N. S. Wales
Railways prescribe?
In foreign affairs Manning’s party
expresses its support of Seato and
opposes recognition of Red China; it
advocates a vigorous immigration policy.
Other items of domestic policy include a
Federal Government guarantee of 95 per
cent, of housing-loans up to £5000; a
limit of 3 per cent, on housing-loan
interest; Commonwealth Bank credit as
needed by co-operative building-societies ;
opposition to Communists and their
counterparts in the Evatt Labor party
through reconstituted industrial-groups.
• •
“Doormat”: As a sequel to the
closing-down of a cement-works at Port
Fairy, in the Western District of Victoria,
which had employed 125 men, the Bolte
Government is being asked to intervene
with further rail-freight assistance to
encourage decentralisation of industry:
The complaint is that cement brought to
Victoria from other States by road can
be sold more cheaply than cement railed
from Port Fairy. It is feared that the
closing of the Port Fairy works may be
the signal for other factories in the
Western District to follow suit.
• •
“Cabinet”: Ministers were not un-
happy when Lucock (C.P., Lyne) and
Wentworth (Lib., Mackellar) brought up
with the “Red bogey” in the House and
party-room. Lucock’s suggestion for
another referendum outlawing the Com-
munist party was a shrewd piece of
timing in the wake of panic in Labor
ranks after the Left victories at the
Brisbane conference. There’s no likeli-
hood of a referendum, but one senior
Minister thinks the Government would
be prepared to go more than halfway—
the threat of a referendum. A debate on
the issue—and the resurgence of Com-
munism in the trade-unions —could
underline to the public the need for
vigilance against Communist subversion.
• •
One provision in Bolte’s new Landlord
and Tenant Bill that is long overdue is
the clause that will enable home-owners
to gain possession of their tenanted
homes if they can prove that their finan-
cial position is less favorable than that of
their tenants. At present many elderly
people on limited incomes catch it both
ways. They can’t regain possession of
their rented homes and they have to pay
through the nose for furnished rooms or
other accommodation.
• •
The recently appointed five-man Com-
mittee of Inquiry into the future of Aus-
tralian universities will hold its first
meeting early in July. It will spend the
balance of that month and all of August
visiting universities, completing its inves-
tigations by the third week in September.
Members of the committee are Sir
Keith Murray, chairman of the Univer-
sity Grants Committee in Britain; Sir
Charles Morris, Vice-Chancellor of
Leeds University; Sir lan Clunies Ross,
head of the C.5.1.R.0.; Alex Reid, Chan-
cellor of the University of Western Aus-
tralia ; and Jack Richards, assistant
general-manager of B.H.P.
_ Terms of inquiry embrace the role of
the university in the Australian com-
munity, the extension and co-ordination
of university facilities, technological
education at university level, the financial
needs of universities and the appropriate
means of providing for those needs. .
THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA


PERSONAL ITEMS
TRADE MISSION
Arthur J. Birch, secretary of the
Sydney Chamber of Commerce, is
manager-secretary of the Australian
Buyers and Sellers’ Trade Mission, which
is timed to leave these shores today (May
8), and will land successively in Canada,
U.K., Sweden, Holland, Germany, Switzerland,
Austria, Italy, France, Belgium, and U.S.A.
(New York, Boston, Detroit, Los Angeles and
San Francisco, to give an idea of likely targets
in each country). The idea seems to be to hit
our traditional markets in mass, thereby, it is
hoped, making a deeper penetration than a
series of businessmen, however weighty, could
over a period. A sort of creeping barrage.
Projectiles:
J. C. Shovelton (A.N.Z. Bank), John C.
Kenny (Bank of N.S.W.), Daniel Chen
(merchant), William D. Thomas (Commercial
Bank of Australia), Donald R. Richmond (Com-
monwealth Trading Bank), William P. Walcott
(Cyplas Industries), Reginald W. Edwards
(Edwards Typewriter Service), Arthur Hancock
(Laminated Belt and Industrial Supplies), Ken-
neth E. Le Lievre (importer and exporter; manu-
facturers’ representative), Howard D. Dunstan
(Premier’s Department of N.S.W.), David A. W.
Nott (P. Rowe Pty., Ltd.), Frank B. King
(importer), Hermann W. Jagusch (G. Wallace
and Co., Ltd.), Anthony H. Bull (F. W. Williams
and Co. Pty., Ltd.), D. D. Willis (H. Jones and
Co., Ltd.; Electrolytic Zinc; also representing
firms exporting fruit and fish).
It is an Australian Chambers of Commerce
show, and the first of its kind organised by
private enterprise. In fact, Birch said, the
New Zealand firm represented (G. Wallace)
makes it an Australasian mission. Members
come from various States. R. W. Edwards, for
instance, is froih Perth, where he is president
of the W.A. Game Fishing Association;
Frank King is chairman of the retail section of
the Launceston Chamber of Commerce, and
president of the Tasmanian motor-cycle whole-
salers’ association. The fact that the mission
includes buyers as well as sellers, Birch
remarked, is likely to make a more favorable
impression in countries such as France.
Birch, sketched at The Bulletin office the
other day, is 48, and has been 21 years with
the Sydney Chamber of Commerce. Joined as
an advertising man, later edited the Chamber’s
paper, and was broken-in as assistant-secretary
before getting his present job. He’s also
secretary of the N.S.W, Standing Advisory
Committee on Wheat, joint-secretary of the
Australian Overseas Transport Association, and
secretary of the N.S.W. and Queensland Wool
Tops and Noils Mill Waste Association. He
lives in the garden-suburb of St. Ives and
plays bowls with Pymble Club.
• •
Businessman Frank Boan, who is at
present overseas, has been appointed
chairman of Perth’s King Edward
Memorial Hospital. A keen yachtsman,
he was commissioned in the R.A.N.V.R.
during War II and saw service in the
North Atlantic. On land, he navigates a
hunter, and has been president of the
Perth Hunt Club.
• •
Charlie Gale, an outstanding public
servant for more than 20 years, and one
at least of the top four in Victoria, died
from overwork in his Melbourne home
last week. He had a heart-attack in
December and though he boasted he
would be back at work before his retire-
ment in August, his colleagues in Spring-
street knew they would never see him
in his chair again. As a permanent head
of the Public Works Department —he was
appointed at 42, one of the youngest on
record —he had, since the war, carried the
burden of the enormous pressure for
Government buildings of all kinds, par-
ticularly schools, and he withstood bitter
criticism for many years when they did
not materialise quickly enough. A sober-
ing thought: there is always someone in
the public service who feels criticism,
just or unjust, very keenly. Charlie Gale
joined the Education Department as a
youngster, was a public servant for the
greater part of his life, and won the M.C.
in France in World War I.
• •
“Lobby”: Twenty-two years ago
tough, fast, Jack Knott played full-back
for Manuka—the year the club won the
Australian Rules premiership of the
Australian Capital Territory. Still fit,
and a young 46, John Lawrence Knott
takes-over from H. P. Breen, who is
retiring, as secretary of the Department of
Defence Production. At present deputy-
secretary of the department, Knott takes-
up his new post on May 9. He worked
his way up the public-service ladder, first
in the Customs Department, then in Post-
war Reconstruction. He was secretary to
the Australian delegation which visited
New Delhi in the war-years, under the
leadership of Sir Walter Massy Greene,
to attend the Eastern Group supply-
conference ; while executive-officer to
the Secondary Industries Commission, he
visited New Zealand in 1945 to discuss the
post-war trade-relations between Aus-
tralia and New Zealand ; and in 1949 he
attended the Imperial Defence College
course in London. Jack Knott is the
third “Old Manukan” to reach the top-
rung in the P.S.-ladder. The others are
E. W. Hicks, Defence Department
secretary, and J. V. Moroney, Primary
Industries Department secretary. Knott
lives in Melbourne with his wife and
four children ; his 16-year-old son is a
promising footballer.
• •
“P.L.”: Passed on at Waipukurau (N.Z.),
where he was on holiday, at 73, Oliver Noel
Gillespie, sometime poet (he wrote for The
Bulletin years ago), brilliant journalist and
speaker. In his earlier days he was a lawyer,
then theatrical manager. His cheery eyo and
witty tongue were known in every club and on
every racecourse from Bluff to. North Cape.
He was president of the N.Z. Centre of the
P.E.N., a foundation-member of the Literary
Fund Committee, and a well-known radio-
speaker. He “warmed both hands at the fire
of life.”
• •
First Westralian Rhodes Scholar to don
the parson’s collar, Bruce Rosier, of
Perth, will take-over the Anglican parish
of Wyalkatchem (W.A.). He gained the
Rhodes Scholarship in 1950, after taking
his B.Sc. at the University of Western
Australia ; he collected an Oxford M.A.
and went to Cambridge, where he com-
pleted his theological studies in the light-
blue university’s Westcott House.
Latterly, he’s been a curate of Sheffield.
• •
Joseph Havkins (herewith), from Israel,
is in Sydney on his way round the world
in his 23-footer Lamerhak 11, which
means “Into the Distance.” His craft is
the smallest to attempt the round-the-
ROUND THE WORLD
world trip, and has already covered some
17,500 miles. He started from the
Mediterranean, across the Atlantic to
Porto Rico, then to New York, Florida,
Cuba, Vera Cruz, crossed from the
Atlantic to the Pacific side of Mexico,
and came here via Tahiti and other in-
teresting islands. His voyage has been
broken for periods during which he raises
funds, and it is on the cards that he will
leave Lamerhak II here for a time while
he goes back to Israel for this purpose.
But he has no intention of abandoning


his trip, he says. He gives the impression
of being a very determined man. A
merchant-seaman, his home is in Tel
Aviv, he is 42, and he served with the
Royal Engineers, in War 11, in the Port
Operating Unit which quite a few Aus-
tralians will remember seeing at work at
the Piraeus, in the Pelopennese, and up
the coast across from Larissa, during the
Greek campaign.
• •
A full-blooded dinkum Australian,
Bob McGuire, who still limps a bit from
a wound at El Alamein, was standard-
bearer for the 2/32nd Battalion in Perth’s
Anzac Day march this year.
• •
Landed in Sydney recently, Canada’s
new High Commissioner to Australia
(succeeding former journalist W. Arthur
Irwin, now High Commissioner to Brazil),
Terence William Leighton McDermot.
Born in Jamaica 60 years ago, McDermot
went from Montreal’s McGill University
into the Canadian Army in 1917, and
after War I took-up a Rhodes Scholar-
ship at Oxford. He was secretary of the
League of Nations Society in Canada in
the early ’thirties, taught school (principal
of Upper Canada College, Toronto), and
later, with the rank of Lieut.-Colonel,
was in charge of the civil-administration
course at the Royal Military College,
Kingston, Ontario. Next job was special-
assistant to the Under-Secretary of State
for External Affairs, after which, in
October, 1944, he became head of the
Information Division. He went to London
as adviser to the Canadian delegation
at the Unesco conference in 1945, and
was attached temporarily to the U.N.
preparatory commission there. In 1950
he became High Commissioner to South
Africa, aTid, in 1954, Ambassador to
Greece and was accredited concurrently
as Ambassador to Israel. Co-author of
Recovery by Control, he has written a
good deal for the weightier reviews.
• •
Colonel L. Fitzgerald, 0.8. E., Director
of Survey at Army Headquarters, Mel-
bourne, has been made an honorary
A.D.C. to the Governor-General. Fitz-
gerald was commissioned in 1934, and at
the outbreak of World War II was on
survey-work at Army Headquarters.
During the war he held survey staff-
appointments with H.Q. First Army and
Advanced Land Headquarters, and was
with the Morotai Force for a short
period.
• •
Professor V. Gordon Childe, who
received a Doctorate of Letters during
the annual ceremony at which Arts
graduates are given their degrees, in
Sydney University’s Great Hall, must be
accustomed to getting honorary degrees
by now —Harvard University made him
a D.Litt. in 1936, when he addressed the
university’s tercentary conference of arts
and sciences, and a year later the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania made him an
honorary Doctor of Science. But no
doubt it was pleasant to be so honored in
his home-town. Born in Sydney in 1892
(his father was rector of St. Thomas’s,
North Sydney), he went to Shore and
Sydney University and went on to
Oxford.
He was private secretary to N. S. Wales
Premier Holman for a year, travelled in
Greece, Central Europe and the Balkans
for a time, was Librarian to the Royal
Anthropological Institute for three years,
then became the first Abercromby Pro-
fessor of Prehistoric Archaeology at the
University of Edinburgh, in 1927. He
was at Edinburgh until 1946, when
he went 1 to London University as Pro-
fessor of Prehistoric European Archae-
ology and Director of the Institute of
Archaeology.
He has written a number of books —
How Labor Governs, The Dawn of
European Civilisation, The Aryans, The
Most Ancient East, The Danube in Pre-
history, The Bronze Age, Skara Brae,
New Light on the Most Ancient East,
The Prehistory of Scotland, Man Makes
Himself, Prehistoric Communities of the
British Isles, Progress and Archceology,
and the very readable Penguin publica-
tion, What Happened in History.
• •
One of the many things which im-
pressed Gorden Day during two years’
study of music in England and Europe
was the National Youth Orchestra of
Great Britain, and the memory of that
organisation was in his mind when he
was invited to take-over the Metropolitan
Youth Orchestra in Sydney in 1955. At
that time the “orchestra” consisted of
YOUTH ORCHESTRA
eight players, and in two-and-a-half
years under Day's conductorship it has
grown to the National Youth Symphony
Orchestra of Australia with 77 players
and a number of favorably-noted con-
certs behind it. It hopes to increase its
ranks to 95 within three months and,
eventually, to have similar orchestras in
all States providing, as with the present
one, instruments, scholarships and
orchestral, experience for young players.
Day was a music-teacher, vocal coach
and accompanist before he went to Eng-
land, where he taught music in London
County Council schools and studied com-
position and orchestration at London
University. He now teaches music in
schools and at Sydney University and
gives occasional recitals ; he conducts the
National Youth Orchestra and bums the
midnight-oil looking after such things as
orchestration, bowing, additional parts,
programme-arrangements, etc.; and he is
always, scouting for such comparatively
rare species as young bassoon and
double-bass players.
• •
“Uramao”: Replacing James Robert-
son, who has wielded the baton over
N.Z.’s National Orchestra since 1954,
John Hopkins is a Midlander not yet
30 years of age. Bom in Preston, he has
been conducting the 8.8.C.’s Northern
Orchestra at Manchester since 1952, and
is the youngest conductor of a major
British orchestra.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Brisbane, at 69, Charles Jesse Povey, Old
Digger, timberman, and bowling personality. A
member of the Plywood Board and a director
of the Northern Plywood Co., he had earlier
been with the Forestry Department.
In Sydney, E. Lindsay Thompson, senior
partner in the firm of E. Lindsay Thompson,
Spooner and Dixon, architects. A lectairer in
Architecture at Sydney University, he was
recently appointed senior lecturer ia
Construction.
In Perth, at 68, Nils Andrew Clementson,
Perth journalist. He commenced his training
on the Westralian “Worker,” under John
Curtin, who was then editor, and in more recent
years had been political writer on “The West
Australian.” For many years a prominent
member of the Perth Y.M.C.A., former
secretary of the W.A. District of the Australian
Journalists’ Association, and a foundation-
member and past-president of the W.A. Institute
of Advertising.
In Melbourne, Stan Smith, who had been
with the Commercial Travellers’ Association for
50 years, editor of “Australia Today” and “The
Traveller.”
In Suva, at 69, Patrick Costello, associated
with E. G. Theodore and others in developing
the rich Tavua goldfield (Fiji). He had financed
the prospector who discovered the field in 1932.
From 1947 to 1950 he was a member of Fiji’s
Executive Council.
In Melbourne, George Pitt, chairman of
directors of Joseph Pitt Pty., Ltd., Northcote
(Vic.), leather-manufacturers. He had been
connected with the firm for 50 years. Member of
the V.R.C. and V.A.T.C.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), Hilton Radcliff, editor
of the Bathurst “National Advocate” for 42
years, and old friend of former Prime Minister,
the late Ben Chifley.
In Melbourne, Emilie Victoria Watson, matron
for more than 30 years of Fairfield Infectious
Diseases Hospital (Melbourne).
In Sydney, at 69, W. T. Wood, chairman
and managing-director of W. T. Wood (Hold-
ings), Ltd., and Motor Traders Pty., Ltd.
Among other benefactions, he endowed the
W. T. Wood Rehabilitation Home for t.b.-
suflerers at Crow’s Nest (Sydney).


ABORIGINALITIES
WITCHETTY-CRAFT
r T~'HOSE mysterious falling stones at
Pumphrey (W.A.) remind me that on
Vanderlin Island (Sir Edward Pellew
Group), in the south-west comer of the
Gulf of Carpentaria, Melbourne “Age”
journalist J. 'T. Beckett and I experienced
something similar back in 1919.
Jim Beckett was previously Protector
of Aborigines in the Northern Territory.
I had gone along as skipper of the 20-
tonner he had bought from Vesteys to
carry the trepang and shell which the
obliging natives were to collect for us
to sell at vast profit to the trepang-soup-
eaters of China.
Beckett had his courageous little wife,
and his sons Reg (killed by Jap-inspired
natives on the New Guinea Sepik River),
Bert (merchant-marineman lost in the
last battle of the Atlantic), and Harold
(sunk with a torpedoed ship of prisoners
out of Rabaul). All of these good Aus-
tralians, with the call of the wilds in their
blood, have passed on now, but the
memory still persists of Vanderlin Island,
and of some of the natives who disliked
the modern Swiss Family Robinson dis-
turbing their tribal peace.
In those days Japanese .were murdered
at Blue Mud Bay, on the western side of
the Gulf, for annexing native women;
and Murdering Tommy and a few other
natives like him were quite adept at the
art of ambush and the spear in the* back.
Such things were not conducive to peace-
ful rest. Jim Beckett was more interested
in tribal art and lore than in the
aborigine’s lack of interest in being
absorbed in the white man’s way of life.
He took the outward smiles of the natives
as being those of welcome, instead of
what they usually are —discomfort in the
presence of the white man.
The black-magic of the Vanderlin
Islanders began to work after old Jack
“King-alonga-that-one-country” killed
his wife Nellie for casting an eye
of love upon a strange native we had
brought from Elco Island on the north
N.T. coast. Beckett decided the white
man’s law must be obeyed, and young
Bert, a strong, sardonic character, sealed
the gin’s head in a kerosene-tin for pre-
servation and took it and the suspect in
a dugout 40 miles up the McArthur River
to Borroloola.
"I ’m representing the Papuan and Mandated Territory
Domestic Appliance Co.”
Not having sufficient corroborative
evidence of murder the Borroloola con-
stable assisted Jacky on his way back to
Vanderlin with a well-directed boot in
the buttocks. Going over-country Jacky
was back at Vanderlin two days before
the irascible Bert. Then commenced the
“witchetty-craft.”
While the cypress-pine hut was being
built we had a brush-shelter constructed
as a dining-room. Mrs. Beckett, a tiny
little woman with a big character, insisted
on correct dress and table-linen —no one
would “go bush or Combo” within her
sight. In our case it was not stones falling
from nowhere, but sticks, which fell
every few minutes on the top of our
brush-hut. When we investigated there
was no sign of any natives.
The sticks continued to fall each night
even though we had laid snares and did
everything possible to detect the stick-
throwers. Sometimes the sticks would
fall on the brush-hut while we were out-
side looking for the throwers. We never
discovered how it was done. The clear-
ing around the huts was too great and
the sticks too small to have been thrown
from a wommera. Beckett’s inquiries
among the natives only received the
answer: “Black pfeller ’im throwim
longa moon.”
It seemed the bone had been pointed
at the Elco Island boy and us, because
he wasted away and died and Beckett’s
venture on Vanderlin Island ended with
his boats half-a-mile inland after a
cyclone, his sheep lost on the way from
Mataranka, and the Singapore banker
who backed the venture overdrawn in
the bank of life with a stomach-ulcer.
So old King Jack’s black-magic, or.
what-you-will, dispatched his rival, from
his marital grounds and the white man
from his island kingdom.
Eric Bedford.
* * * *
A COUNTRY storekeeper is still
smarting from a rough-’un put over
him by a, heathen Chinee. Before leaving
for the city the Chink, who had an out-
standing account, sent the storekeeper a
cheque, on the back of which were
Chinese characters. When it bounced
smartly back from the bank the shop-
man sought a compatriot of the drawer
to translate the “endorsement.” The
grinning Celestial reported: “Writing on
back say, ‘This cheque no good at all.
So sorry.’ “Rosedale.”
$ * * *
“Zing”: When his cattle-dog was
bitten on the nose by a black-snake Jack
sliced a piece off its ear, saying that as
long as the dog bled freely it would be
all right. His cobbers were sceptical, but
Darky was off-color for a few days and
then as lively as ever.
“H.C.8.”: Some unusual - sounding
Australian place-names were born of
judicious letter-juggling following the dis-
covery that the original name had a
duplicate in the State. A little town called
BiUabong on the N.S.W. south-west




“You can't beat a brisk turn round the deck, ol' boy,
to bring on your appetite.”
•lopes was dehorned and tailed to
become Ilia bo. Villa wood, 17 miles
south of Sydney, would have been Wood-
ville, after the adjacent road, had there
not been another Woodville (Les Darcy
was born there). Boat Harbor was the
fourth inlet bearing that name in N.S.W.;
a little manipulating produced Bato,
which looked more posh if given a
French polish, so Bateau Bay evolved.
But where on earth did Three Leg o’
Man Creek —three miles out of Berrima
on the Goulburn road—get that name?
• * * *
“Quo Vadis”: They were on a bar-
and-shovel outback fencing-contract. A
blazing, cloudless midsummer noon,
136 deg. F. in the sun, and their dripping
sweat exploded into vapor on the
dazzling white claypan. The shire council
came under fire. “All b fools,” said
the big young fellow. “Not an ounce
of brains among the lot of them.”
“Yairs, that’s right,” agreed his little
wizened-up old cobber. “Come to think
of it, Big, there’s really only two brainy
men in this district.” Pause. “Yairs,”
he ended mournfully, “you and me.”
* * * *
“Jacana”: Magpies are experts at
grasping food in one foot as an aid in
feeding, the “hand” being rested on the
ground as the bird tears with the bill.
Peewees use the same method, and I’ve
watched the swamp-hen pull reed-stems
with a deft jerk of the large bill, smartly
transfer the green blade to one foot,
then peck off portion of the soft white
end. Those hooligans the blue-faced
honeyeaters will hold down a slice of
bread by perching on it while eating,
and birdland’s bodgies and widgies, the
apostle-birds, frequently use the feet in
play. Neat footwork is also displayed by
the white-breasted wood-swallow. Mak-
ing a graceful swoop from a waterside*
gum, it will capture a dragonfly on the
wing, transferring the insect from claws to
bill in flight.
* * * *
“Tabba”: Those contractions like
‘The Alice” (B. 6/ 3 / ’57) are common
enough in South Oss, too. There is “The
Bridge” for Murray Bridge, and “The
Reach” for Swan Reach, and, to the
dinkum Croweater, Mount Gambier is
always “The Mount.”
' “Nimrod”: Then there are “The Hill”
for Broken Hill, and “The Bidgie” for
the Murrumbidgee, while South Aus-
tralians have used “The Burra” so often
for Burra Burra that the old form has
disappeared from the map. In the West
we have “The Bar” for Marble Bar, and
“The Cross” for Southern Cross, once
as famous, or notorious, as Sydney’s
Cross—so much so that some old-timers,
perhaps with the affection of shared
sorrow, preferred to call it “Suffering
Cross.”
• * # •
“Ex-Pom.”: Ploughing with two
horses and the single-furrow mouldboard,
I had the reins knotted and slung across
my shoulders. At the headland the horses
bolted, dragging me the length of the
paddock until the reins broke. Cause?
Two elephants, in charge of a lad
mounted on a pony, were calmly strolling
up the road, heading for their next one-
night location. It was an uncomfortable
way of discovering that horses have a
natural fear of the big pachyderms.
* * * *
“Hawsbill”: I marvel at the powers of
recuperation of the petrels or mutton-
birds. It’s common to see them lying
around the base of a lighthouse-tower,
stiff, cold and, to all intents and purposes,
dead—dazzled by the beams, they hit
the tower with tremendous force. I have
seen 20-odd birds out cold this way, but
by dawn all except two or three have
recovered and flown away.
* * * *
“Rimutuka”: The Brisbane Commis-
sioner. of Police was listed at the wool-
sales as the owner of one bale of wool.
It was the aggregate of five partly filled
bales found by the C. 1.8. some months
ago—they had been dumped in the bush
near Manly (Q.), and remained un-
claimed. Someone had it branded
“C.0.P.,” and the department is now in
pocket to the tune of 40d. per pound.
* * * *
“Bungaroo”: Jorrocks, a prize show
pony, sported the most valuable pair of
shoes with which a horse was ever shod.
Star of Tinker Brown’s Circus on the
Beechworth (Vic.) goldfields in the 1850’s,
Jorrocks’s owner fitted him with a pair
of golden shoes. Hammered on to the
pony’s front hooves they were made out
of golden nuggets mined on the field.
Each shoe weighed 7oz. 4dwt. They
were slipped on and off for each per-
formance. Brown later died and the circus
closed down. His widow kept the horse-
shoes on the front doorstep of her
Wagga (N.S.W.) home, hidden in the
doormat. When gold-prices rose M v rs.
Brown sold the shoes for close on £lOO.
Brown’s grave is in the Wagga cemetery.
GRANTHAM
Grantham s green and yellow orchards
run
Carpeting the valley smoothed with sun
And mellow air in the sweetness that they
bear:
Rain-polished leaves and ripening oranges
With the misty warmth the early
morning has.
Grantham like this, before the pickers
pare
The yellow from the green the green trees
wear,
Is day and night on the same loom of
delight:
Suns fade in dusks, but still the orchards
hold
Ten thousand smaller foliage suns of
gold.
Grantham is old; its generations sleep
Deep as the rows of the orange-trees lie
deep.
But in rebirth each season from the earth
Draws up the saps the orchard-fathers
found
Flowed sealed and blossom-sweet in
Grantham ground.
[Grantham’s green and yellow valley
glows ;
Sweet as its saps the creek’s white, water
flows,
Weaving in song, winding all color along ;
While over the orchards creek-birds
wheel the sky,
The fruitful world in their orange flight
and cry.
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


T SEE that there was no entry in
the section for draught-horses in
harness at Sydney Show —a sad but long-
expected message. Horsepower zealots
now worship at the shrine of the tractor-
stand, and at country shows, too, the
Clydesdale has been ousted by the same
mechanical deity. But there is yet one tie
with the old colonial days ; Billy, Kate
and Mary still bring their mounts along
to outback shows. Sturdy and tough as
in Dennis’s day, the unique little beasts
withstand as stolidly as ever the rough
abuses and gross liberties practised on
them by their scallywag riders. And to
me, watching their serene acceptance of
every wayward prank and mischievous
indignity, it seems that the judge of
“Quietest School Pony” has the toughest
task in the schedule. —“Voila.”
* * * *
“Kiwi”: Almost stumbled on a 4ft.
brown-snake and was about to kill it
with a waddy when I discovered that it
was already dead. It had a mountain-
devil jammed in its throat.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Doubt if the salvage-operators
will have much luck with tne Pericles
(B. 6/3/’57). Laden with lead and
bullion, she lies at -90 ft. just where the
waters of . the Southern and Indian
Oceans meet. You don’t need to be a
diver to realise what the resulting turbu-
lence would be like.
* * * *
“Tringa”: Taming a tiger-cat doesn’t
sound easy, but a fine old male has suc-
cumbed to blandishments in the form of
tucker and a warm bed provided by the
wife of Bob McCracken, ranger in Tas-
mania’s Cradle Mt. park. Its bed is a
“Tell that spaceman to get these goldfish
out of the bath!”
folded corn-sack in a storeroom and its
tucker the meat-scraps from the table.
In return it poses for the cameras of
patrons of Waldheim Chalet, which Bob
supervises. By day it saunters into the
bush to visit the missus. So far the lady
hasn’t made up her mind about being
friends ; standoffish, she at least main-
tains the dasyure’s reputation of being
one of the wildest animals of the bush.
* * * *
“8.R.”: Big windmills? Fifty miles
north of Hughenden (Q.), there are two.
mills with 30ft. wheels working 3*in.
pumps, one lifting water 450 ft., the other
lifting it 480 ft. Before 1921 there was a
mill at Rocklands Station (Q.) with a
36ft. wheel which had 168 fan-blades.
* * * *
“Sheriff”: I know it’s not wise to carry
young emus in one’s shirt (B. 16/1/’57)
but young wild pigs are worse. They
seem to trot round and round one’s
perimeter, stopping only to take an
occasional bite. Provided the pig is
small enough, the best way is to carry
your lunch in your shirt and the pig in
your saddle-pouch.
* * * *
“Sarsen”: When I was a nipper run-
ning around a dairyfarm, “milk-tea” was
a regular drink. It was made by infusing
the usual amount of tea-leaves in the
pot with boiling milk instead of boil-
ing water. The resulting brew is still
something to be remembered. But then a
quart of milk was neither here nor there ;
now, it’s just not here.
* * * *
“Zend Avesta”: Close to a Brisbane
suburban school a small grader levelled-
off a building-site ; tons and
:ons of sandy soil were taken
there and smoothed over.
Then the lads from the near-
by school moved in. Trenches
vere dug in the soft soil,
ready for Indian warfare; in
the middle of the site is a
frontier-fort, made from old
timber, pieces of iron, and
cement-bags full of the lovely
soft soil. Dogs, like their
industrious young masters, are
fighting and scratching holes
everywhere. The site now
looks as if it’s been hit by an
A-bomb. When the owner
sees it it’ll be a case of
squaring-off.
♦ * #
“Dolphin”: In the Leeton
Hotel, Sandy, the genial bar-
tender, is also the pianist
when the piano is set up in
the lounge to entertain week-
end customers. He plays
limitless pop-songs (old and
new) with an ease that can be
fully appreciated only when
you see that all four fingers of
his right hand are completely
amputated.
COWBOYS' CLOTHES
AS a practising cowhand on what was
left of the West Texan and New
Mexican cattle-ranges in the early part
of the century, I agree with “Warrabulla”
(B. 13/2/’57) that the dress affected by
some of our bright young rodeo con-
testants would make an old-time cowboy
hang himself with his own lariat.
It has always amazed me that Australia
has abandoned the homegrown title of
“camp-draft” for the American, or I
should say Spanish-American, word
“rodeo,” and that participants have found
it necessary to ape the drugstore-cowboy
as portrayed in most of Hollywood’s
horse-operas.
The essential items of a cowboy’s
trappings had a very good use. The chaps
or leggings kept the legs warm and dry
in winter and, strangely enough, cool in
summer, as well as protecting them when
galloping through scrub and cactus. The
high-heeled boots supported the foot in
the stirrup and braced the wearer when
roping on the ground ; the leather cuffs
protected the wrists and forearms from
scrub, while the advantages of the wide-
brimmed hat and scarf are obvious.
Some riders in my day packed a revolver
when on the range but most of us carried
a rifle in a scabbard.
The American stock-saddle, bridle, bit,
and spurs can be traced back to Arabia,
where the saddles today are of a similar
construction. The stock-saddle is some-
what heavier than the Australian variety,
but they are very comfortable once one
has got used to them, and I have never
known one to give a horse a sore back.
They are no easier to sit a buck than is
the Aussie saddle.
Although the bit appears very severe,
American cowponies of my day were not
mouthed but broken to neck-rein, with
the result that they had cast-iron mouths
and a pretty rugged bit was necessary to
control them when they got above them-
selves. The spurs, though, vicious-looking
things, would not cause as much damage
as a pair of racing spurs.
American ranches did not supply
riding-equipment, and every cowboy
owned his outfit and took great pride in
its condition and appearance, so it was
only natural that he should tend to orna-
ment it and go in for a bit of show. The
cowboy thought so much of his saddle
that, though he may have reluctantly lent
his horse, he would never lend his saddle,
and to part with it was a sign of having
sunk pretty low.
Incidentally, a lot of the flashiness of
the Hollywood cowboy arose from the
styles affected by the Mexican vaquero,
who was really the prototype of the
American cowboy, though the cowboy
of my day dressed very plainly wearing,
among other things, the despised denims,
which were known as Levis jeans in
Western America.
Since coming to Australia I have ridden
in the Kimberleys and the Northern Ter-
ritory and adopted the Australian dress,
but stuck to my American boots and
saddle.
ARIZONA AMES.


TIIC 4U-BRITIS*
OWWOII
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
F
'A
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
to your Writing
eON\l 1 T BTEWIRT A SO. LT 0. tSi D M
Business. Robbery.etc.
PATCHY PROSPERITY
TT7IDE variations are to be
* * found in Australian
industry today, especially in
manufacturing industry. In
primary industries, too, for-
tunes are varying according to
overseas demand, which
governs average prices, and to
Australian seasonal conditions,
which influence production
(outside the mining industry).
The force of these variations
is to be noted in the support
for different types of shares
on Australian Stock Exchanges,
though in particular cases
special circumstances may
affect the price of shares in
contrast to the general trend.
Among primary industries,
the buoyant price of wool has a
predominant influence in our
economy, especially with regard
to our balance of external
trade; but other land indus-
tries are not in such a happy
position. The dairying industry
is feeling the pinch, eggs being
particularly hard to sell over-
seas, and butter not much
better ; the meat trade is find-
ing the going harder in the
open market, and is thankful
for term contracts; and pig-
meats have been reduceu in
price even in Australia. Wheat
has recovered in price a little
during the current export
season, and a bigger volume of
exports has helped total
income. Hides are still at a
fairly low level following the
slump of 1954-55. Tallow has
maintained a level trend. Sugar
is boosting Queensland income.
Metals
Metals, on the whole, have
fceen a ■ fairly firm
, , 3 .. .
? nces ’. but c °PP. er bas sIl PP ed
* n P rice anc * ls being P ro ‘
duced in excess of demand
within Australia. Most of the
“I hear there's going to be a rise in the price of magic."
“glamor” metals, such as
scheelite and rutile, have
ceased to be so glamorous,
though, in greater production,
titanium metals are bringing in
more money. Uranium-pro-
duction up to the present hasn't
been of great significance.
Manufacturing
The manufacturing indus-
tries are experiencing varying
fortunes. - Chief sections to
suffer a setback are the home-
building trades, motor-cars,
and “consumer-durables” such
as refrigerators, washing-
machines, radios, radiograms
and food-mixers. Floor-cover-
ings are picking-up again.
The textile trade also has a
fluctuating demand for its pro-
ducts. Cotton textiles on the
whole are in good demand. In
the woollen section, worsteds
are still far below the level
established in 1950, but are
better than this time last year.
Output of blankets, including
those of a cotton mixture, has
never been higher. Knitted
products are in high demand.
Building fittings, such as
sinks, stoves, etc., have suffered
a setback with the check to
homebuilding. Even output of
st a i n'l e s s-steel sinks has
dropped.
Capital Equipment
But city building goes on at
a high rate, and demand for
cement and structural steel is
at a record level (in contrast
with the setback to the brick-
and-tile industry).
According to a survey
carried out by the Common-
wealth Treasury a number of
enterprises, representing the
employment of about 80 p.c.
of all private employees, aim
to spend £67.7 million on “new
buildings and structures”
during the six months which
will end on June 30. This com-
pares with £62.5 million in the
July-December half-year and
£54.5 million for January-June,
1956.
There is thus no slackening
in this form of expenditure in
the metropolitan areas (it
excludes rural, professional-
business and Government
expenditure). There has been a
drop in outlay on “other new
capital equipment”—the figure
for the current half-year is put
at £98.2 million, compared
with £107.9 million in July-
Dec. and £98.1 million for
Jan.-June, 1956. Most of the
setback here has been in the
transport industry and whole-
sale and retail trades. The
manufacturing industry is
busier than ever all round. The
mining industry shows slight
but regular increases. "
Imports of producers’ capital
equipment (other than trans-
port equipment) during the first
eight months of 1956-57 were
£7B million, compared with
£85.8 million during the same
period of 1955-56.
Steel Output
Against this patchy general
background, the Australian
steel industry goes from
strength to strength, its output
rising steadily as new capital
expenditure is translated into
new plant-capacity, and the
stage has been reached where
some production is being
exported at a profit. During
July-March iron and steel
exports were valued at £lB
million, compared with £4
million in the same period of
the preceding year.
Some processed products,
like water-piping, are now in


***** m asm,
m
-1
IDLE MONEY
deposited on Short Term
with
FERRIS INDUSTRIES LTD.
(PAID-UP CAPITAL £235,000)
(MAIN TRADING SUBSIDIARY FERRIS BROS. PTY. LTD.)
will earn you much better
than Bank Interest
Deposits
accepted
from
£5O
7%
6%
per annum for 2 yrs.
per annum for 1 yr.
per annum for 6 mths.
INTEREST PAYABLE HALF YEARLY
A perfectly safe investment (ranking before Share Capital)
in an expanding and successful manufacturing company.
Additional working capital is required to finance the manufacture of
Ferris Television Receivers, Ferris Car Radios, Channel Master Television
Aerials, accessories and component parts.
CUT AND SEND COUPON
To Secretary, Ferris Industries Ltd.,
752 Pittwater Road, Brookvale.
Please send me details' of form of application for Short Term
Deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B
oversupply, and there are
ample supplies of galvanised-
iron, wire and wire-netting.
Employment
Although there is some
slight increase in unemploy-
ment. the number of persons
employed at the end of
February this year was a
record.
For the present, in spite of
great pressure from mis-
managed State transport-
systems, there is comparative
stability in costs —State awards
tending to come down a little,
Federal awards moving up-
wards towards State wage-
rates. But State Government
affairs (and especially business
undertakings) are generally un-
satisfactory. Transport is one
of this country’s greatest
weaknesses.
The General Outlook
All in all, the economic out-
look varies from industry to
industry, and it is hard to give
an overall opinion of future
prospects that will satisfy any
one section of the community
seeking direction. Basically we
are still suffering from in-
adequate productivity, too-high
costs and a lack of capital that
is particularly noticeable in this
period of population-growth
and industrial development.
Conditions vary from State to
State. West Australia has had
its oil-prospecting boom and is
now suffering a reaction,
accentuated by the fall in
wheat prices. Victoria and
South Australia are running
away from N.S.W. in industrial
development because they are
better governed. Queensland
may be on the threshold of a
big mining boom, and is
already doing well in this
regard.
Among company invest-
ments, apart from the trends
outlined in the foregoing,
individual managements and
individual finances count for a
great deal. This aspect was
dealt with more fully in last
week’s issue.
Generally speaking, Aus-
tralia is a country with abound-
ing prospects for the popula-
tion generally and for the in-
vestor, but costs —particularly
costs of transport—continue
to be far too high.
Australian Gypsum
TAIRECTORS of Australian
Gypsum, Ltd., must have
thought hard before announc-
ing the one-for-two bonus-
issue. It is the third capital-
reconstruction of its type since
1919.
In 1920 the present co. was
formed, and its capital had
been increased to the extent
that its 8 p.c. div. was worth
15 p.c. to shareholders in the
old co. In the building boom
that followed the 1914-18 war
(gypsum products are used
principally in building-interiors)
the div. climbed to p.c. in
1922 and 1923, and in 1924
there was another reconstruc-
tion ; 2j ords. were issued for
every one held.
In the ensuing 13 months a
div. of five-sixths of 1 p.c. was
paid; and shareholders then
got nothing until the 1934 term,
when 3 p.c. was distributed.
The return to dividends
followed the amalgamation of
th - ™ . -.u .u t
ft.s co. s interests with those of
Victor Electric Plaster and
Peninsular Plaster (they all
worked gypsum deposits at the
southern end of Yorke
Peninsula, S.A.) and the forma-
tion of Australian Gypsum Pro-
ducts Pty., which took over
as an operating co. on July 1,
1930.
The £200,000 of shares
received by Australian
Gypsum, Ltd., in the new
grating co. became the only
’ m f° r,ant asset held by this
holding co., against its own
ca ila f o£ i 34 8,555. In 1934
lhe directorSi headed by Ray .
m ont Moore, the present chair-
Rjan> said that j n v j ew D f the
more promising outlook they
did not consider any useful
purpose would be served by
writing - down capital to


l£M«r
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated, in England
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
•
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
•
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Geminate the loss on rea I? snt : on
of assets ; and later results have
proved them to be rignt.
The book-value of the hold-
ing in the operating co was
subsequently increased to
£350,000, but this did little
more than help balance the
accounts.
Though, during World War
11, divs. fell away from 8 p.c.
to as low as 1-f p.c. in 1943, they
gradually recovered to 8 p.c. in
1950, and to 10 p.c. in 1954.
Issued capital has remained
unchanged at £348,700 since
1927, and no information has
been given in the accounts
about operations of the sub-
sidiary co. since its formation
in 1930.
Though no information is
given as to the present earning-
power of the subsidiary, the
board suggests that the div.
on the bonus-increased capital
will remain at 10 p.c., making
an effective 15 p.c. to present
shareholders.
Gypsum is used to make
fibrous plaster for the building
trade, and is the basic material
in plaster-of-Paris. Australian
Gypsum Products also makes
other building-materials and
insulating products.
TAXATION OF SALARIES
■OfHEN the recent British
’ ’ Budget announced some
taxation-concessions in the
income-groups between £2OOO
and £lO,OOO a year it was
mentioned that the object
behind the move was to
encourage bright young British
businessmen, technicians and
scientists to stay in their own
country instead of migrating
to countries like, say, Canada.
There is little doubt that
taxation has become an indus-
trial bludgeon instead of an
economic instrument in many
respects, and it requires high-
level political study away from
mere considerations of civil-
service convenience and
Budget necessity. Many Budget
“necessities” would never
arise if taxation policy was
not so economically oppressive.
Some months before the
U.K. Budget was presented,
Lord Heyworth, chairman of
Unilever, Ltd., delivered, as the
Stamp Memorial Lecture at the
University of London, “The
Control Centre for an Inter-
national Business” (published
subsequently by the university
and distributed by Constable).
In the course of discussing
taxation on salaries Lord Hey-
worth said:
“At first sight it may seem
irrelevant for a business to
consider the taxes levied by
the State on the salaries earned
by its staff. The job carries a
certain value, and if the busi-
ness pays that rate for the job,
it should not be concerned
with the manner in which the
State taxes the individual any
more than it is with his other
private affairs. But in many
countries the dogma of taxing
according to ability to pay
has been carried so far that it
practically nullifies the wish of
the business to fix a reward
which is commensurate with
the job. Tax is so heavy that
gross salary is a matter of
academic interest. The thing
that matters to the employee is
what is left as the reward for
the work after payment of tax.
“There can be endless
argument between the egali-
tarians and the merit-rewarders
about the disincentive effect of
very high rates of tax on more
than ordinary earnings. Human
nature being what it is, the
managers with better brains
and energy want a better
reward than is given to the
rank-and-file, and one must
remember it is their qualities
which can help a nation most
in improving its material
welfare.
“This question is of general
importance to all businesses.
It is of particular importance
to an international business
because its managers, in the
course of their careers, have to
circulate into and out of
several taxation-systems. The
incidence of tax on the gross
wage is one of the problems of
staff-transfers.
“Whilst it is relatively easy
to move an employee from a
highly-taxed area to a lower-
taxed area and to leave him
feeling that he really has
received a promotion in his
material welfare, it is most
difficult to move a man from a
low-taxed country to a high-
taxed country. For instance,
it is practically impossible for
a citizen of the United States
or of Canada with their high
standards of living and rela-
tively low taxes to accept an
appointment in the United
Kingdom without his feeling
that he has come down in the
w0r1d....
“Consider, for example, the
managers who go out from
headauarters visiting the over-
sea parts of the business *o
supervise and advise. They
should be a corps cfelite with
confidence in themselves. The
fact that in their travels they
find the people working in
other parts of the business
better-off materially than they
are themselves is not exactly
conducive to this spirit. This
is not to say that managers of
this kind place store only on
material rewards, but every-
one feels that the material
reward is the outward and
visible recognition of his worth,
and therefore the position is
difficult.
“As regards ordinary trans-
fers of managers, one could
comment, somewhat wryly, that
just as it is most difficult to
move an employee from the
United States because of the
high standard of living and the
low taxes, so it should be easy
to transfer an employee from
the United Kingdom, because
wherever he goes he cannot be
more heavily taxed. That is
true, and the relief of tax on a
transfer abroad helps to com-
pensate for the disturbance of
moving and the inconvenience
of foreign residence.
“But one is left with the
problem of men coming into
the United Kingdom. It is
necessary for the efficiency of
the management to bring non-
residents to the United
Kingdom to train them or to let
therrt teach their United
Kingdom colleagues. It is also
necessary, as I have mentioned,
to bring men home to work
or to retire because their spell
of duty abroad is ended.
“Those about to retire have
a certain freedom of choice as
to whether they come to the
United Kingdom or retire else-
where. Tax is one of the con-
siderations amongst other
domestic ties. Their decision is
a personal one ....
“The men who are brought
home for promotion feel that
they have an ‘lrishman’s fise’
when they find that the increase
m their taxes practically
absorbs the increase in
their gross salary, and they
can be out of - pocket on the
costs of removing their home.
For the men who are trans-
ferred home without promotion
I can see no solution other
than building-up retirement
benefits during the period of
their oversea service. They
cannot receive a higher
remuneration than men in
similar posts in the United
Kingdom. The added tax must
come as a setback to them,
against which they have the
consolation of living in their
home country.”
Whether or not Lord Hey-
worth’s address had any in-
fluence on the U.K. Chancellor
of the Exchequer it is inv
possible to say ; but some con-
cessions undoubtedly have been
made.
And whilst, as statistics
supplied by Lord Heyworth
show, an executive (married
with two children) earning
£2OOO sterling a year shifted
from London to Melbourne
pays out (in Australia) 18.4
p.c. in tax, against 20.7 p.c. in
the U.K., and at the £lO,OOO-a-
-year level the ratios are 48.3
p.c. and 60 p.c. (1956 rates)
respectively, there is little
reason for Australia to feel
smug about the matter. In
Canada and the U.S.A. the
tax position is more favorable
than in Australia ; and in any
case the whole principle of
incentives involved is worthy
of study far outside the
bounds of the U.K.
In matters of general
economics, Britain's high rates
of taxation have an influence
on the cost of Australian
imports, and more especially
upon freight-rates charged by
British shipping companies.


“You didn't tell me your husband could swim."


Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUP HEM 1C COURT OF .NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO LESLIE LEONARD CODRINGTON
late of Padding-ton in the State of New
South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that
JEAN CODRINGTON lias tiled a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1227 of 1957 on
the grounds of desertion for three
3 r ears and upwards without just cause
or excuse and is praying that the
Court exercise its discretion on her
behalf under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd
day of July 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
ADRIAN TWIGG & CO., Solicitors, 100
Castlereagh Street, Sydney. —J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO JOHN THOMAS ROWAN late of
Hassan Street Pottery Estate Lithgow
in the State of New South Wales. —
TAKE NOTICE that HELENA MARY
ROWAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2546 of 1956 on the ground of
during three r ears and upwards being an
habitual drunkard leaving without means
of support and being guilty of cruelty
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
12th July 1957- and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. MERVYN FINLAY & CO.,
Solicitors, of 141 Elizabeth Street,
Sv'dnev, Svdnev Agents for MESSRS.
RUCK WORTH ' & BUCKWORTH, Soli-
citors, Argent House, 229 Argent Street,
Broken Hill.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Malko and Hungerford
The Piano Concerto No. 27
in B Flat Major, in which
Leonard Hungerford was
soloist with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra under Nicolai
Malko, is a prime example of
Mozart’s processes and style.
The concerto, his last essay in
the form, has plenty of the
surface brilliance, the rococo
embellishments, the grace and
elegance which together make
the composer’s hallmark ; but
beneath these, and holding
them together, is a basic struc-
ture of fine strength. Although
written in the same period as
the melancholy “Requiem,” it
is suffused with strong sunlight
and gaiety ; even the gentle
larghetto, with its Italian-
cantabileAike: theme, never
conjures the drooping lip.
Hungerford gave this slow
section the genuine song-
characteristic, no easy thing
with a percussion-instrument
where the tempo is at almost
maximum slowness. And he
brought to the final movement
an engagingly saltant quality
that was matched by the
orchestra.
The Symphony was
Tschaikowsky’s Fifth.
Although, unlike the Fourth
and the Sixth, the composer
disclaimed any “programme”
for the work, his use, in a
variety of guises throughout,
of the dark-tinted motto-theme
first given to the clarinet, seems
“ Psst—now get some rabbits out of the hats."
to indicate he had something in
mind. And it was his switching
of this theme in the gigantic
final movement from the minor
to the major which brought
down on Tschaikowsky the
charge by the incensed purists
that he had committed an
enormity in bad taste.
Be that as it may, this wind-
up to the work remains one
of the most exciting and highly-
colored pieces of orchestration
in existence. Malko really
‘gave it the works” in a
manner which proved that few
are more expert than he in
handling big tone under pres-
sure. Again dispensing with a
score in a 45-minute work, he
rode the whirlwind of brasses
and directed the storm of
strings with the apparent assur-
ance that all would come out
all right at the end, with no
loose threads left around and
no burred edges to the orches-
tral texture—which was so. The
famous melody of the andante,
which Tin Pan Alley gutted
for one of its best-sellers, was
given by the upper strings in
their most luscious tone.
Ravel’s “Pavane for a Dead
Infanta,” in which he turned a
stately old dance-form into one
of the tenderest elegies extant,
was wrought with admirable
delicacy, and Rossini’s
“Semiramide” Overture
bubbled and sparkled from
start to finish.
❖ ❖
Cornelia Brain
At her final recital (at Sydney
Con.) before going abroad for
further study, Cornelia Brain
showed a technique which,
'•except for some opaqueness in
fast scale-passage .work, stood
up reasonably well to the
demands of an exacting pro-
gramme. Her promising inter-
pretative sense was evident in
the thoughtfully - wrought
Ballade No. 2 in F by Chopin,
and in the grief-stricken arioso
section of Beethoven’s great
Sonata in A Flat, Op. 110.
Miss Brain is at her best in
music that flows unhurriedly,
as, for instance, in the Bach D
Major Toccata this was
luminous and serene playing.
In the opening movement of
the Beethoven there was not
enough of its inherent hymn-
like quality, but the final fugal
treatment —marred in its early
phases by jerkiness had
accuracy and vigor.
An excursion into the primi-
tivista style of the contempor-
ary Spanish composer Federico
Mompo.u wasn’t very happy.
Mompou holds that cadences,
key-signatures and bar-
divisions can be profitably dis-
pensed with ; judging by his
“Suburbia,” he has found
that melody, rhythm and
harmony are also redundant;
and even music’s fourth
ingredient, tone-color, he has
applied with a pen dipped in
milk-and-water.
The harsh and edgy Sonata
No. 3 in F by the minor Soviet
composer Kabalevsky did little
to add to the music of the
night.
The B Minor Prelude of
Chopin was made an exquisite
cameo, and the same com-
poser’s Grand Valse in A Flat
was full of exuberant life.
❖ ❖ ❖
Katchen
Julius Katchen, the American
pianist, finished his second
Melbourne season with as fine
an exposition of mature piano-
playing as has been heard in
the Town Hall for a long time,
his final items being the “Wald-
stein” and “Appassionata.”
Among other things he demon-
strated that he has a great
understanding of the piano as
well as a feeling for it, and if
his Beethoven was good, so
was his Mendelssohn and
Liszt. The quiet passages in the
Mendelssohn Prelude and
Fugue in E Minor were
superbly rendered. He was
asked for a string of encores.
❖ ❖ ❖
Matthew Passion
The Melbourne Philhar-
monics, coupled with the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra,
did not give a very wonderful
performance of Bach's great
work. It was, however, a
wonder it was as* good as it
was, since the two organisa-
tions have been separated
from the conductor who guided
their hands and voices for
upwards of a generation. Sir
Bernard Heinze stepped on to


The KEROSINE
used by the
ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION
SFW
IS*****’®!!**
W)
COMUTE
KEROSINE
burns WARMER,
CLEANER, BETTER
* It’s easier—and there’s
a saving if you bring your
own container.
You can buy Coralite
Kerosine by the tin * where
you see these pumps
• • •
SUPER
ALSO OBTAINABLE AT SELECTED STORES,
C.O.R AGENTS AND DEPOTS
Marketed by THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of
The British Petroleum Company Ltd
_CSOS
the rostrum as usual, but he
had to come from Sydney
to do it. If the choristers were
too strong for the soloists in
places, the orchestra retaliated
by being too strong for the
choir in others. The orches-
trions gave evidence of playing
from past experience rather
than from present practice.
As far as the performers
were concerned, the saving
grace was Max Worthley, as
the narrator. His unforced
tone and perfect rhythm fell
like balm upon the evening. The
other soloists were uninspired
and made heavy going of some
of the oratorio’s most exalted
moments.
+> +*♦ >*♦
University Double
Two new revues at the
Sydney University established
the tact that revue-groups, like
art-groups, can hold entirely
opposite views on what is
expected of them —-or what
they are prepared to offer.
■'The programme goes a long
way to explaining the end-
product of “Brass Monkeys,”
the Students’ Representative
Council revue, put on in the
Union Hall. The producer,
John Cummings, explains:
“Perhaps this revue marks the
zenith of a movement which
started some four years ago, a
movement away from what I
like to think of as the old-style
revue, towards the newer, more
intellectual revue. Away from
puns and killed rhymes,
towards surrealist humor.
Away from lines of giggling
chorus-girls, showing their
ankles to an outraged public,
towards an annual social com-
mentary.”
And so they attempt
surrealist skit; but, with a pro-
duction that is altogether too
scrappy to let through
surrealism or anything else,
they are neither surrealist (a
dubious achievement) nor
funny— most of the laughs, in
fact, are at the unintended
farce.
Now, though, if we laugh
back on Doug. Gordon mouth-
ing “Petroushka” in a skit
entitled “The Idiots,” we won’t
know whether it is because that
image has been conveyed to us
like something from T. S. Eliot
or because Doug. Gordon has
a face for being funny:
The Sydney University
Players, with “My Spare Lady”
at the Wallace Theatre, are
moderates: “Players’ revue has
always aimed first and foremost
at entertaining the audience,”
they declare.
“Black Tragic” was a good
early offering. Here Maggi
Carroll, as Rosaleen Moron,
sang “Demons Are a Ghoul’s
Best Friend.” “Up the Spout”
—Noel Coward a la skit —was
well done ; “Working Our Way
Through College” was the
night’s best offering from the
chorus; “Le Mistral” was a
clever piece of choreography,
with Elma Scherf as the
vivacious victim.
The three best skits were
“Trial by Jury,” “Ursus Taxi-
dermus” - “the bloke what
stuffs the bears for Peter
Scriven” and “Rites de
Passage,” a ruthless take-off of
Katherine Dunham.
Though it could have taken
a bit more polish, “My Spare
Lady” was entertaining.
Douglas Agnew and Michael
Baume kept a high standard in
everything in which they
appeared, and Graham McPher-
son, Kay Eklund, Elma Scherf,
Jennie Boyle and Maggi Carroll
were sound. Vic Bizannes
kept the music lively; the
device of using an announcer at
each end of the stage to fill-in
between acts, though fairly well
done, became tedious ; and it
would have helped if the
Warblesome Fourblesome had
been able to remember the
words of the theme-song.
R. A.
Artbursts
Latvians
Three leaping Latvians —
Reinis Zusters, Uldis Abofins
and Dzems Krivs—provide an
exceptionally lively show at
David Jones’s gallery, Sydney.
The strongest of the trio is
Mr. Zusters, who submits bold
and rather superficial flower-
pieces, all very attractive, and
scenes from the bush, such as
“Hawkesbury River,” reveal-
ing in their gay and forceful
movement a fresh approach to
landscapes which our own
artists have long made familiar.
His “Cyclamen,” all in rich
pink, is a quieter, solider flower-
piece ; “Banana Tree” a rich
bit of tropics ; and where, as
in “View from a Window,” he
.comments on the juxtaposition
of red roofs among green
foliage, he gets something of
the dramatic effect of a
Vlamingh.
Uldis Abolins goes in for
bold, free watercolors, varying
from the childlike naivety of
“Cafe at Chiswick Garden” to
the more assured quality of
“Sunflowers.”
Dzems Krivs has too many
large, scraped-about oils,
shallow and in a too-familiar
contemporary convention ; but
in a dappled “Landscape” he


has a fluidity of color-effect
that might have intrigued
Blamire Young and in a couple
of black-and-white portraits he
shows an amusing feeling for
character as well as for
economy of line.
Mebourne Exhibitions
Landscapes and portraits by
James G ovett and flower-
studies by his mother are on
exhibition at the Athenaeum
Gallery.
Mr. Govett prefaced his
exhibition by claiming that he
had discovered the secret of
Rembrandt’s pictures, which
was that he only used four
colors on his palette. Dozens
of large and small portraits,
mainly of children, hang on the
walls of the Athenaeum, and if
Mr. Govett applied Rem-
brandt’s method to these
pictures, Rembrandt must have
had something else to produce
the effects that the world
admires.' Mr. Govett’s paintings
haven’t the inner glow of the
ruby, only the hard glitter of
bricks.
Mrs. Govett’s still-life are
more-or-less competent essays
in the academic tradition.
Herrnia and David Boyd,
potters, have been trying their
hands at ceramic sculpture, and
the results are to be observed
at the Contemporary Gallery.
At first sight the exhibition
suggests a museum (of freaks
and monsters, an effect that
would be enhanced if the
specimens were immersed in
spirits. Women with snake-
necks, two heads and birds’
legs and men with other un-
usual anatomical features are
shown embracing, but the
effect is not voluptuous—if so
intended.
There is more artistry in the
ceramic tiles representing
angels riding birds, whalers
shooting at flying whales,
wrestlers, etc. These are lightly
incised and faintly and
harmoniously colored and, un-
like the sculpture, are unob-
trusive.
Films
“War and Peace”
Admirers of Tolstoy’s novel
(his greatest, and probably the
greatest ever written) will be
at a disadvantage when viewing
the screen-version of “War and
Peace,” at Sydney Prince
Edward. They will look for
the philosophy and characteri-
sation and find only the news-
features. But that is a general
fault of Hollywooded classics,
and it is, perhaps, unfair to
complain about it.
The breadth, the strength, the
sensitivity and the minutiae of
a great novel cannot be trans-
lated into a film ; and even a
drastically cut version with
some of these qualities
inevitably excluded, if it went
on too long and if it retained
some of the force and mass of
the original, would be intol-
erable. No one can read a book
like War and Peace at a sitting.
That is one of the virtues of
reading—one can shut a book ;
escape from it. Unless one
obstinately sleeps, there is no
escaping a film, no time for
“HoW do I know it Was the theatre cat ?”
appreciation o f nuances;
everything is painted in
primary colors. It is still
possible for a film to be a work
of art, but it is a different kind
of art.
The film “War and Peace”
runs for three hours and 10
minutes (28 minutes less than in
America, and the cutting shows
like a piece of ragged cloth)
and it is not a work of art,
even by film standards. It is,
however, an ingenious com-
position, with armies of actors,
battles, snow, Moscow in
flames, and some quite good
acting. It will very probably
be a big box-office success and
a great many people who
would never dream of reading
a serious n«ivel will get a kind
of comic-strip version of the
story.
Audrey Hepburn is Natasha
Rostov, and, in the early
scenes, brings a warmth and
gaiety and a certain fey-like
quality to the part, which is
appropriate and charming. But
she is introduced as a child, of
13 or so, .and her physical
structure spoils the illusion.
Something as simple as a high-
cut dress would have kept it.
Henry Fonda, as Pierre, is
good, but the role lacks the
breadth of Tolstoy’s Pierre.
For one thing, there are no
scenes of Pierre among his
peasants, and on his estates,
although his welfare-projects
are mentioned in passing, in a
conversation with his wife
Helene. Attempts are made,
in two scenes, to show that he
was a man of great physical
strength, but these are lost in
the general scramble and the
total impression of Pierre is
that of a blundering observer,
whereas he was a great deal
more. But one does have the
impression that Fonda under-
stands Tolstoy’s Pierre and,
within the limitations of his
script, was trying hard to bring
the character to the surface.
Prince Audrey, that other
half of Tol s t o y’s own
character, the courtier and
soldier, is played by Mel
Ferrer, who makes a rather
wooden job of it. Anita
Ekberg is Helene, Pierre’s wife,
and brings a magnificent
bosom and an impression of
faint stupidity to the part,
which is appropriate; her
brother, Anatole, the fop and
rake who fascinated Natasha,
is played by Vittorio Gassman.
This Anatole is a bit too much
the dark and toothy southern
charmer, but, within these
limitations, effective. The hint
of incest which, in the book,
gives this commonplace but
handsome pair a dramatic
energy is not apparent in the
film.
The Rostov family is a
typical Hollywood family, all
sweetness and light. Oscar
Homolka’s General Kutuzov, a
sleepy, unbuttoned character,
is too talkative Tolstoy’s
leader of the Russian armies
was simple but enigmatic, so
that when he finally moved,
the effect was of a mountain
rolling. Herbert Lom’s
Napoleon is a brisk bandit-
chief —or perhaps an Italian-
American gangster—and may-
be this was what Tolstoy had,
in mind after all. In any case,
Tolstoy’s Napoleon is one of
the least satisfactory characters
in the book, and his appear-
ances are contrived.
John Mills makes an
excellent job of the peasant-
philosopher Platon ; Helmut
Dantine is rather too boisterous
as the duellist Dolokov,
Helene’s lover and one of the
most interesting (and complex)
minor characters in the book ;
and Barry Jones makes an old
goat of Andrey’s father, a
character something like the
father of Frederick the Great.
Many characters from the
novel had to be sacrificed,
naturally. .Of these, one regrets
in particular the soldier-who-
got-on—the young man who
appears early in the novel as
a hanger-on of the Rostov
family, who is pushed by his
mother and who goes from
strength to strength as a staff-
officer. In a minor way, he
vividly illustrates an aspect of
Tolstoy’s view of war.
❖ ❖ • ♦>
Other Sydney Releases
“Man of the Moment’*
(Greater Union Theatres):
Moderate crop of laughs
harvested by English comedian
Norman Wisdom when, as an
assistant filing-clerk in the
Foreign Office, he gets mixed-
up, in both senses, with a dip-
lomatic delegatioln in Paris.
“The Baby and the Battle-
ship” (Sydney Embassy):
Mildly funny piece about a
baby on a battleship; with
John Mills and Richard Atten-
borough.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd.
HTHE principal subsidiary of 8.H.P.,
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd., is a
giant in its own right with a paid capital
of £14,500,000 and assets of almost
£50,000,000. The co., primarily an iron-
and-steel-manufacturer, completes its
financial year in November, while the
parent co. balances in May. The
A. and S. accounts therefore provide an
interesting if incomplete interim
report on B.H.P.’s progress in the current
term. Sharemarket interest also extends
to the co.’s 1,000,000 £1 p.c. prefs.,
which are held by the public and last
sold at 255. 7d. for a return of 5.6 p.c.
B. acquired the ord. capital in 1935.
A basic requirement of Australia’s
expanding secondary industries, steel was
in short supply for most of the 10 years
to 1955, but, as a result of the huge
expansion programme undertaken by the
B.H.P. group, most forms of steel are now
freely available. Production of ingot steel
by the group is at the rate of 2,800,000
tons p.a., an increase of roughly 40 p.c.
on the average rate for 1953. The expan-
sion programme is far from complete. A
large slabbing-mill is under construction
for A.I. and S at Port Kembla (next to
the £3O-million hot-strip mill completed
in 1955), the B.H.P. tin-plate plant is
nearing completion, and work has com-
menced on a fourth blast-furnace, which,
when completed, will have a capacity
equal to the largest in the world. It was
estimated last year that installations then
planned by the group would involve an
expenditure of £lOO million by 1960-61.
Last term (to November 30) A.I. and S.
turned out a record 1,297,000 tons (up
104,000 tons) of ingot steel from its eight
open-hearth furnaces:
Year, Coke, Pig-iron, Steel-ingots,
Nov. 30, Tons. Tons. Tons.
1952 . . 746,590 631,439 - 638,926
1953 .. 1,011,536 872,004 942,586
1954 .. 1,066,000 966,000 1,116,000
1955 .. 1,044,000 1,040,000 '1,193,000
1956 .. 1,028,000 1,040,000 1,297,000
The quantity of steel (1,148,000 tons)
rolled by the blooming-mill was also the
highest on record, as was the output of
coal from the co.’s collieries on the South
Coast of N.S.W.
Consumers, by paying more for steel,
have helped to finance the expansion pro-
gramme, but prices in Australia still com-
pare favorably with those ruling in the
U.K. and North America, and, last term,
production surplus over immediate local
requirements was exported at prices from
50 p.c. to 70 p.c. above those prevailing
in Australia. At present, however, local
needs leave little steel available for
export, unless, as happened last term,
production from one section of the plant
is increased before extensions to other
sections, enabling modification to the
product, are completed.
Some of the funds tied-up in new
plant, etc., provided a return last term,
and the combination of higher prices and
increased output added a substantial
£888,858 to the co.’s net profit, lifting it
to £3,116,008:
f Dividends —>
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Nov., Pref. 7i p.c. 2j p.c. serves. serves.*
& Si £ £ £
’51.. 650,477 75,000 275,000 200,477 2,835,837
’52.. 713,213 75,000 337,500 300,713 3,136,550
To plant replacement res., £450,000 3,586,550
’53..1,275,459 75,000 337,500 862,969 4,449,509
Tax overprovided, £750,000 .. 6,199,509
To plant replacement res., £300,000 5,499,509
’64..1,587,622 75,000 337,600 1,176,122 6,674,631
To plant replacement res., £BOO,OOO 7,474,631
6 p.c.
’55.-2,227,160 75,000 810,000 1,342,150 8,816,781
To plant replacement res., £1,600,000 10,416,781
10 p.c.
’56..3,116,008 75,000 1,350,000 1,691,008 12,107,789
• After deducting pending interim div. on pref.
shares.
Before arriving at the £3,116,008 of profit
an unstated amount was provided for
taxation and £4,524,708 set aside to cover
depreciation and increased cost of plant-
replacement (depreciation, £3,924,708,
up £429,684, and plant-replace-
ment, £1,600,000, up £800,000). The ord.
div. rate, lifted from 2\ p.c. to 6 p.c. in
1955, was increased to 10 p.c., and called
for £1,350,000, earnings covering the pref.
div. and 22.5 p.c. on ord. capital compared
with 15.9, 11.2, 8.9 and 4.7 p.c. back to
1952. B.H.P.’s share of the profit,
£3,041,008, was equal to 8.6 p.c. of that
co.’s paid capital as it now stands.
During the year A.I. and S. repaid a
£3,000,000 loan from 8.H.P., but in-
creased its indebtedness to creditors and
provisions for taxation, etc., by a total of
£4,178,386:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £14,500,000 £14,500,000 £14,500,000
Reserves .. 6,712,131 9,239,281 12,107,789
Mortgage .. 6,000,000 6,000,000 6,000,000
Overdraft .. 1,410,058 —•—
From B.H.P. .. 6,277,902 3,000,000
Sundry creditors! 9,924,810 12,898,126 17,076,512
£44,824,901 £45,637,407 £49,684,301
Fixed assets .. 33,073,118 32,657,320 31,231,244
Shares in asso-
ciate co. .. 386,497 386,497 386,497
Stocks .. 8,599,073 9,245,199 11,290,172
Debtors .. 2,748,146 2,708,863 3,951,143
Cash, Govt, bonds 18,067 639,528 2,825,245
£44,824,901 £45,637‘,407 £49,684,301
flncludes provision for taxation.
In the last three years nearly £10,000,000
has been provided for depreciation, and
the (cost-/e«-depreciation) book-value
of fixed assets dropped last term by
£1,426,076. Holdings of cash and bonds
(up £2,185,717) rose sharply and, with
an extra £2,044,973 in stock and
£3,951,143 (up £1,242,280) in debtors,
current assets exceeded current liabilities
by £990,048 compared with the previous
term’s £304,436 surplus of liabilities.
It all points to another highly success-
ful year for B.H.P.
Woolworths, Ltd.
|"ARD. -shareholders who are on the
co.’s register as at May 15 will par-
ticipate in Woolworths’ coming one-for-
two issue at par. Applications for the
11,549,322 ss. shares on offer will close
on October 1, when the co. will have
gathered in £2,887,441. That will bring
subscribed capital to £8,937,102, of which
£275,000 is in prefs. The new scrip will
rank for all dividends declared after
September 30.
Both Woolworths and the rival variety-
store organisation, G. J. Coles, have been
engaged in expanding their businesses at
a tremendous pace since the war ended,
and both have plans mapped for further
constructions. The projected share-issue
by Woolworths is part of its programme.
Last year the co. made a one-for-four
issue at par to shareholders, and later to
nominees of J. B. Were and Son it issued
650,000 shares at a premium of
11s. 2|d. Coles announced its capital
intentions recently, too —a three-for-ten
bonus ord. issue to be followed by a
three-for-ten cash-issue of ords. at par.
Of the two, Coles, with nearly 250
stores, is in the lead at present, due mainly
to the acquisition last year of the big
Penneys’ chain.
Woolworths itself added 19 new stores
to its Australian phain last term, and
relocated or enlarged another 15. At
January 31 it counted 221 stores open
and trading over the whole of Australia
and New Zealand.
Ten more stores under construction
are expected to be opened this year, and
another 11 stores will be enlarged or
relocated. Work is also to begin on the
erection of a further seven new stores and
on the enlargement or relocation of 18
more.
Thanks mainly to the 19 new stores
sales rose substantially in 1956-57 (setting
a new record for Woolworths), but there
was also a Sharp increase in expenses
beyond the co.’s control (wages, rates and
taxes), so that although the gross profit-
rate was “satisfactorily maintained,” net
profit, after setting aside £125,135 (up
£35,701) for leasehold-amortisation and
depreciation and £370,000 (up £35,000)
for income-tax, showed a gain of only
£54,370 for the extra capital employed:—>
Parent Co.
t —Dividends —*
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. Re .
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.c. serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
,1950 .. 323,110 7500 14,000 230,278 1,282,304
Share premiums, £382,828 .. . . 1,665,132
1951 . . 359,882 7500 14,000 286,438 1,717,076
Reserves capitalised, £685,656 .. 1,031,420
Added insurance reserve, £98,488 .. 1,129,908
12 p.c.
1952 .. 516,533 7500 14,000 411,298 1,213,645
Reserves drawn upon, £20,784 . . 1,192,861
1953 . . 454.915 7500 14,000 411,298 1,214,978
Reserves drawn upon, £29,151 .. 1,185,827
1953 tax provided, £350,000 . . .. 835,827
15 p.c.
1954 . . 627,984 7500 14,000 514,122 928,189
From development reserve, £61,172 . . 867,017
1955 . . 876,383 7500 14,000 599,739 1,122,101
From development reserve, £112,576 1,009,585
1956 . . 953,103 7500 14,000 642,548 1,298,640
Share premiums, £790,676 . . . . 2,089,316
From development reserve, £106,174 1,983,142
1957 .. 1,007,473 7500 14,000 791,648 2,177,467
* After deducting goodwill, £165,227 at 31/l/’67.
Allowing for the pref. divs. the £1,007,473
profit (parent co. only) was equal to 18.7
p.c. of the average ord. capital, as against


a return in 1956 of 21.8 p.c. The ord. div.
was unaltered at 15 p.c.
In respect of future div.-payments on
its 50 p.c.-bigger ord. capital the co. says
that it doesn’t anticipate that the rate
will exceed 12| p.c. until “all new stores
in hand and awaiting development have
become fully productive.” This will not
be for some time.
Dividend policy has also been
influenced by current high construction-
costs, which make it very desirable to
finance growth as much as possible from
retained earnings.
Most of the growth in the balance-sheet
relates to shop-fittings, etc. (up £541,240),
stock (up £1,032,869), and advances to the
subsidiaries (up £1,589,131) against the
purchase of freeholds and the erection of
new premises, and the fitting and stocking
of new stores occupied by the trading off-
shoots in Australia:
Parent Co.
Paid capital— 1955. • 1956. 1957.
Pref £275,000 £275,000 £275,000
Ord 4,283,649 4,283,649 5,774,661
Reserves .. .. 1,287,388 1,498,867 2,342,694'
Notes .. .. 600,000 1,100,000 1,045,000
Overdraft .. - 902,978
Creditors .. 414,373 525,476 671,700
Due by subsids... 538,067 . 375,007
Staff fund .. 48,000 48,000 48,000
Tax provision .. 561,539 619,963 730,025
Final divs. .. 439,115 439,115- 588,216
£8,447,131 £9,165,077 £12,378;274
Freeholds, leaseholds,
fittings . . 755,502 1,151,912 1,693,152
Shares subsids... 2,897,682 3,111,662 3,067,103
Shares associated
cos 982,547 982,547 982,547
Shares other cos. 8,463 16,962 16,962
Stocks .. .. 1,935,221 2,208,371 3,241,240
Debtors .. .. 54,767 60,452 198,516
Due to subsids. 812,896 1,4-03,168 2,992,299
Cash .. .. 834,826 64,776 21,228 ■
Goodwill .. 165,227 165,227 165,227
£8,447,131 £9,165,077 £12,378,274
In addition to share-capital (£1,491,012)
and premiums (£843,827) the co. raised
£902,978 on overdraft and owed creditors
£146,224 more.
At 225. for the ss. ords. the rights
to the new issue should bring about
11s. sd. when trading begins on May
15. On the basis of a theoretical ex-
rights price of 16s. sd. the return from
a p.c. div. would be 3.8 p.c.
Including the new capital net tan-
gible asset cover (parent’s figures) is
6s. 3d. for the ords. and for the prefs.
£l4B 3s. lOd. (10 p.c. firsts) and
£551 4s. (7 p.c. seconds).
Hastings Diesels, Ltd.
"COR the fourth,time in under four
years Hastings Diesels, Ltd., is in the
market for more share-capital. On this
occasion the co. is offering 160,000 £1
ords. at par, the board reserving the right
to allot an additional 40,000 shares in the
event of an oversubscription.
Hastings Diesels, the largest member
of the Hastings Deering group of cos.,
was formed in 1947 as an offshoot of
Hastings Deering Building, Ltd. In -
December, 1952, it was converted into a
public co. and 303,455 £1 ords. issued to
the public at par. Since then three heavily
oversubscribed par issues have brought in
£2,211,545, and paid capital (all in £1
ords.) is expected to total at least
£3,000,000 on completion of the current
issue.
The co. distributes tractors, earth-
moving equipment, agricultural machinery
and (since last term) steel-framed build-
ings in Queensland, the Northern Terri-
tory, Papua, New Guinea and the south-
west Pacific Islands. Manufacturers
represented in these areas by the co., or
one of its five subsidiaries, include Cater-
pillar Tractor Co., John Deere, C. A.
Hyster Co. (all of U.S.A.), and the Hein-
rich Lanz organisation of West Germany.
In addition, the 'parent operates the
Hastings Deering Research Reserves,
south-east of Alice Springs, and an
adjacent leasehold property. More than
15,000 head J of cattle are on these
properties.
In Queensland and the N.T. the plant
requirements of expanding or recently
formed mining-cos. have, to some extent,
compensated for the fall in demand from
Government and semi-government
authorities. According to the current
prospectus, the demand for the co.’s lines
is “considerable,” and recent extensions
to Caterpillar’s Australian plant will
reduce the group’s need for imported
products.
Both turnover and earnings have im-
proved with the introduction of fresh
capital, and it seems probable the full
effect of the £1,634,500 raised in the last
two years is yet to be felt. Despite this
progress, earnings have not kept pace with
the rapid expansion of share-capital, and
last term the div.-rate was dropped from
p.c. to 10 p.c. A 10 p.c. div. on a
capital of £3,000,000 would call for
£57,224 more than was earned last term,
requiring an increase in earnings of
23.5 p.c.
All subsidiaries “achieved improved
results” last term (to August 31, ’56) and
there was another substantial increase in
net earnings, which rose by £40,635 to
£242,776. The directors report that
£14,108 of this profit came from the
pastoral properties, but in the “statement
of profits” neither the group provision
for taxation nor the total provision for
depreciation is disclosed:
Hastings Diesels and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
August Profit. f Dividend N serves, serves.*
si, £ £ £ £
Share-issue exps. written-off, £3367 .. 14,639
1953.. 71,977 124 p.e. - 51,212 20,765 35,404
Share-issue exps. written-off, £24,789.. 10,615
To capital reserve, £1415 .. ... 12,030
1954.. 117,940 124 p.c. = 96,855 21,085 33,115
Add subsidiaries’ reserves, £1764 - .. 34,879
Deficit.
Less intangibles, £66,705 .. .. 31,826
1955.. 202,141 124 p.e. =186,301 15,840 15,986
Increase intangibles, £22,728 .. 38.714
Capital profit, £223 .. .. .. 38,491
1956.. 242,776 10 p.c. =228,369 14,407 24,084
* After deducting intangibles, £89,433 at 31/8/’56.
The earnings amounted to 10.6 p.c. on
the average share-capital employed during
the term, as against 13.5, 15.2, and 17.5
p.c. in the three preceding years. The
decline in earning-power is, of course,
related to the rapid increase in capital,
but it offers little promise of an early
return to the 12| p.c. div.-rate. Share-
issue expenses were responsible for the
£22,728 added to intangibles.
The financial structure is well-balanced,
despite the lack of net reserve support for
capital:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid capital .. £1,205.500 £2,000,000 £2,540.000
Reserves .. 33,115 50,719 65,349
Mortgage .. 57,740 55,972 53,947
Overdraft.. ~ 22,407 46,519 ,
Creditors, etc. .. 128,075 210,853 209,491
Tax provision .. 63,343 81,385 130,480
Dividend .. -.. 96,855 186,301 228,369
£1,607,035 £2,631,749 £3,587,636
Land, buildings .. 301,519 557,227 580,397
Plant .. .. 102,962 196,420 215,956
Investments .. 484 484
Stock .. .. 726,192 1,247,832 1,640,211
Loan assoc, co. ..
Debtors .. .. 407,305 553.724 836,711
Cash, etc. .. 9,057 9,357 67,847
Intangibles .. 66,705 89,433
£1,607,035 £2,631,749 £3,587,036
Most v of the £840,000 of new capital
raised last term went into debtors (up
51.1 p.c.), stock (up 31.4 p.c.) and a
£156,597 loan to Hastings Deering
Building, Ltd. As a result, working-
capital increased by £787,171 to
£2,073,026. Cash, etc., at £67,847 replaced
an overdraft of £46,519.
At the close of the term there was a
tangible asset cover of 19s. lOd. for each
£1 of share-capital. The scrip, most of
which carries only limited voting-rights,
is not listed.
> Lowes, Ltd.
A “slight decrease” in sales last
term (the second fall in two years)
was reported by Lowes, Ltd., but this
Sydney-based men’s and boys’ tailor and
outfitter was able to maintain its net
earnings for the year to January 31 last
at the reduced level of the preceding term.
Strong competition, increased over-
heads and high labor costs have kept
retail margins fairly slim over the past
eighteen months or more, while a scarcity
of bank-credit and increases in rates of
sales-tax have checked the growth in
demand. Import-restrictions, too, have
added to trading difficulties, and, on the
whole, the large department- and chain-
store organisations, with the notable
exception of Cox Brothers, have fared
better than their smaller competitors.
Lowes was founded in 1898, the public
obtaining a share-interest 50 years later
when, to finance expansion, 150,000 ss.
ords. were offered at a premium of
12s. 6d. Bonus-issues in 1949 (three-for-
five) and 1955 (one-for-one) lifted paid
capital to its present total of £455,354 in
ss. ords. In addition, there are 151,020
workers’ shares, which participate in divs.
but have no capital-value or voting-
rights.
Sharing in both the inner-city and
suburban retail trade, the co. operates
seven stores in Sydney and its suburbs,
and has branches in the industrial centres
of Newcastle and Wollongong. Expan-
sion plans are largely directed towards
an extension of suburban retailing, and
a property bought, recently at Fairfield
(a rapidly-growing outer-suburb of
Sydney) will be developed “as soon as
possible.”
Gross profit was “maintained” last
term, despite the drop in turnover (un-
disclosed), and, presumably, earnings were
not called on to cover “considerable”
expenditure “of a non-recurring nature”


DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neye, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — AnvT;
Hiivmom
i _
SANDERS#
£
!
Correspondence, invoices,
statements, etc., filed in the
"■Sanders'* can be securely
bound and converted into O
perfect book of reference a!
the end of each month —O9
any other period.
Price* and fur*
ther Information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
P l»srlb*tin € Al'Hit
MELBOURNE ,
ADELAIDE .
rCBTH .
Normas Bros. Fly. Ltd.
Vardon Prlw Ltd.
Stookel Book Co. tAuiL)
Now You Can Safety
Make More Money!
THE
SYDNEY
WATER
BOARD
5%%
LOAN
For 5, 10, or 20 years
Is Guaranteed by
the N.S.W. Government
As a Loan investor, you gain a bigger income
from your savings without running the slightest
risk. 5|- per cent, is almost double savings bank
interest. Payment of half-yearly interest and full
repayment of principal at maturity are covered by
the State Government’s Guarantee.
Your investment, interest, and repayment of
principal are free of exchange in terms of the
Prospectus.
Trust Funds can also earn per cent, each
year; this gilt-edge security is an Authorised
Trustee Investment in N.S.W., Queensland,
Western Australia and Tasmania.
START MAKING MORE MONEY TO-DAY!
Invest at any Commonwealth Trading
Bank, apply through a Stockbroker, or
call at the Sydney Water Board Office.
Loan No. 175, issued at par for £2,000,000
will close not later than 25th May, 1957
Underwritten by Jan Potter and Co.
as was the case in the preceding
year. However, a higher tax-
provision (up £3OOO at £43,000)
and an extra £1166 for deprecia-
tion (£6917) kept earnings down
to £55,736, an increase of only
£561. The contribution to the
pension fund was unchanged at
£5000:
Re-
Jan., Profit, y Dividends 6erves.
1952. .47,126 15 p.c. = 37,008 268,064
1953.. 44.412 15 „ ~36,968 275,508
Tax overprovided, £6500 .. 282,008
Unexplained addition, £32 .. 282,040
1954.. 62.602 17J p.c. = 43,03 T 301,605
1955.. 77.561 20 „ ~49,129 330,037
Assets revalued, £324,014 .. 654,051
Reserves capitalised, £227,677 426,374
1956.. 55.175 10 p.c. = 49,438 432,111
Profit sale assets, £2249 .. 434,360
1957. .55,736 10 p.e. = 49,352 440,744
The div., dropped from 20 p.c.
to 10 p.c. after the one-for-one
bonus issue, took most of the
profit, which equalled 11.3 p.c.
of paid capital and workers’
shares combined, compared with
11.2 p.c. in the previous term
and 31.5, 25.4 and 18 p.c. on
the lower capital of the three
years back to 1953.
Premises at Burwood (Sydney)
previously leased by the co. were
bought during the term, and,
with the acquisition of the Fair-
field property, £57,510 was added
to the book-value (1955 valua-
tion and subsequent cost) of free-
holds. There was a slight drop
in liquidity over the term:
„ 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £455,354 £455,354
Reserves .. .. 432,112 440,744
Mortgage .. .. 27,500
Overdraft .. .. 16,974 23,074
Creditors .. .. 125,109 150,001-
Provision for tax,
etc. .. .. 88,628 87,427
Staff funds .. 35,485 38,038
Final dividend .. 24,716 21,655
£1,178,378 £1,246,793
Freeholds .. .. 621,855 679,365
Plant, etc. .. 73,093 83,252
Stock . .. .. 365,734 359,936
Debtors .. .. 58,196 68,258
Cash, shares, etc. 69,500 55,982
N £1,178,378 £1,246,793
Funds were provided by a
£27,500 mortgage, a small
(£6100) increase in the over-
draft and an additional £24,892
in creditors. Debtors rose by
£10,062 (17.2 p.c.) but there was
little alteration to stock, shown
at “cost or less” in the balance-
sheet.
In the first few months of the
current year trading conditions
have been much the same as
those experienced for most of
last term, and, with the full
effect of State land-tax yet to be
felt, there appears to be little
prospect of any substantial
increase in earnings in the first
half of the term at least.
The f.-p. ss. ords. have a net
tangible asset backing of 9s. lOd.
and at Bs. 7d. would return 5.8
p.c. from a 10 p.c. distribution.
Q’land National Pastoral Co.
TN the past four years the
Queensland National
Pastoral Co., Ltd., has doubled
both its pref. and ord. div.-rates,
a continued improvement in
earnings last term preceding the
largest hand-out to shareholders
since 1920.
The chairman, however, when
commenting on the 20 p.c. divs.
recommended by the board,
reminded shareholders and pros-
pective investors of the uncer-
tainties of primary production
and the folly of anticipating that
the future “payment of any
specific dividend is a foregone
conclusion.” Adding point to his
warning are the 600,000 2s. 6d.
ord. shares in the co. Originally
these shares had a par-value of
£l, but in 1932 £525,000 of ord.
capital was jettisoned to cover
losses caused by drought and
low export-prices. Six years
later, in another attempt to
return to a div.-paying basis,
pref. shareholders agreed to
forgo £192,500 of dividend-
arrears and to accept 6 p.c.
instead of 7 p.c. on their scrip,
which was, however, to partici-
pate with the ords. in any dis-
tribution above 6 p.c.
In spite of this, ord. share-
holders had to wait until 1943 to
see their first div. in over 20
years. Since then the outlook
has brightened, divs. (ord. and
pref.) have averaged 10.7 p.c.
(13.5 p.c. over the last six years)
and a deficit of £26,286 has been
•replaced by reserves of £265,314.
As a result of the capital write-
off the bulk (£250,000) of the
£325,000 paid capital is in prefs.
Formed in 1915, the co. runs
cattle and some sheep on its
extensive leasehold and free-
hold properties. The 9036
square miles of leasehold
property is situated in western
Queensland and the Northern
Territory, freehold property in
eastern Queensland covering
45,917 acres.
Seasonal conditions were
favorable during most of last


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACK a ON
o'swmivav, /
mvo. AJ
x Sr*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, 'Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper. Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIEB
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"jAXUI.” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING. GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
"NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EOUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
"jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
INSURANCE SERVICE
Why not entrust the COMPLETE management of your Insurance
coverage to an independent Firm of Insurance Brokers? You will
enjoy, free of cost, the benefit of their wide experience, vigilant super-
vision and attention to claims.
Consult without obligation.
RAWLINGS & GARDINER PTY. LTD. (Eat. 1919)
Insurance Brokers and Supervisors
lfl Spring Street, SYDNEY - BU S44S
108 Qneen Street, MELBOURNE - - MU 4081
term (to December 31) and
although the reduced overseas
demand for Australian beef
influenced the local livestock
market, “satisfactory” prices
were obtained. The strike by
shearers in Queensland, how-
ever, delayed the sale of wool,
and trading receipts dropped
from £396,330 to £349,630, but
the fall in gross profit was
limited to £7083. Expenses,
including an undisclosed pro-
vision for taxation, were £15,498
lighter so that, after providing
£30,591 (up £1974) for deprecia-
tion, a net profit of £81,965
remained, an improvement of
£6341:
To Re- Re-
Dec., Prft. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
’52..36,077 25,000 7,500 3,577 168,302
Unexp. addition, £4668 .. 172,970
15 p.c. 15 p.c.
’53..86,982 37,500 T 1.250 38,232 211,202
’54..67,148 37,500 11,250 18,398 229,600
174 p.c. 174 p.c.
’55..75,624 43,750 13,125 18,749 248,349
20 p.c. 20 p.c.
’56..81,965 50,000 15,000 16,965 265,314
Dividends and interest received
amounted to £19,493, or almost
6 p.c. of paid capital, total net
earnings representing a return
of 25.2 p.c. from ord. and pref.
capital combined, compared
with 23.3, 20.6, 26.7 and 11.1
p.c. back to 1952. The pref.
and ord. divs. (increased from
17y p.c. to 20 p.c.) took £65,000
of the profit, the board’s policy
being to distribute, as far as
practicable, the major part of the
earnings.
Improvements to leaseholds,
etc., are reflected by a £22,361
increase in their book-value
(cost, less depreciation), the
balance-sheet showing that the
co., with £513,880 in cash and
investments, is in a good position
to cope with the effects of an
adverse season:
Paid, capital— 1955. 1956.
Preference .. £250,000 £250,000
Ordinary .. 75,000 75,000
Reserves .. .. 248,349 265,314
Creditors, etc.* .. 409,645 443,753
Dividends .. 56,875 65,000
£1,039,869 £1,099,067
Freehold land .. 27,903 27,903
Plant, fittings .. 74,972 71,337
Leases .. .. 197,171 219,532
Livestock .. .. 162,214 176,815
Stores, etc. .. 51,051 88,798
Debtors .. .. 578 802
Cash, bonds, etc... 525,980 513,880
£1,039,869 £1,099,067
* Includes provision for taxation and
contingencies.
The £37,747 increase in stores,
etc., relates almost entirely to
wool (from sheep shorn during
the year) which, owing to the
shearing dispute, was not sold
until early in the current term.
Provision for contingencies and
taxation probably accounts for a
large proportion of the £443,753
(up £34,108) shown against
creditors, but just how large a
proportion is not disclosed.
In the current term rainfall in
parts of southern Queensland
has been well below average,
but the beef-cattle country
further north and in the Far
West, where the co. has large
leasehold properties, is reported
to be in reasonably good condi-
tion.
The quality of beef exported
by Australia has been criticised
both in this country and over-
seas, and meat from New
Zealand and Argentina is pro-
viding strong competition in the
U.K. and Continental markets.
The 15-yeair meat agreement
provides exporters with a degree
of protection over the next 10
years, but the chairman, in his
address to shareholders, stressed
“the imperative need to improve
the quality of herds” and to
“intelligently expand the chilled
side of the trade.”
At balance-date net tangible
assets provided a backing of
475. 3d. for the prefs. (which
participate in any surplus after
repayment of capital) and 4s. 6d.
for the f.-p. 2s. 6d. ords. The
market prices the ords. at ss. 3d.
to return 9.3 p.c. from a 20 p.c
div. The prefs. at 345. would
return 11.7 p.c. on the same
basis.
Western Titanium, N.L.
A N estimated 4,300,000 tons
of heavy minerals is con-
tained in the crude sands at
Capel (W.A.) now being treated
by Western Titanium, N.L.
Plans for increasing the rate of
throughput from 200,000 tons to
300,000 tons per annum were
announced recently, and, at the
higher rate, it would take about
30 years to work through the
10,000,000 tons of crude sands
available. The actual life of the
mine is, of course, dependent on
the level of metal prices and
working-costs. Plant enabling
the recovery of rutile, zircon and
monazite (in addition to the
ilmenite now being produced)
is expected to be in full-scale
operation by next September.
Following the announcement
of a one-for-three par issue last
month the market-price of the
co.’s f.-p. ss. shares dropped
from 7s. 3d. to 6s. Bd., but there
was a quick recovery and the
scrip brought as much as Bs. 6d.
cum rights. Sellers are now
asking Bs. ex rights, early sales
of the rights bringing from
2s. 6d. to 2s. lOd.
Mountain View Gold, N.L.
■VfOUNTAIN VIEW GOLD,
N.L., ceased goldmining
operations at Day Dawn in the
Murchison field (W.A.) early in
1955, when payable ore from
the northern end of the Great
Fingal reef petered out. Since
then its chief mining interest
has been a shareholding in Day
Dawn Gold Pty.
Mountain View and Western
Queen (1936), N.L., each took
up 75,000 4s. shares in Day
Dawn Gold in 1955 to finance
deep-drilling work by that co.
It is hoped that a repetition, at
depth, of the Great Fingal ore-
body will be located by the pty.
co., and last June hard blue
quartz was encountered between
3786 ft. and 3807 ft. Core-
samples taken at Ift. inter-
vals gave a wide variety of assay
values, ranging from o.9odwt. to
14.34dwt. per long ton. The
true width of reef is estimated
at 11ft. Mechanical failures
have delayed further drilling,
but it is hoped that a second
intersection of the reef will be
made “in the next few months.”
Meanwhile Mountain View
has disposed of most of its
mining equipment and plans to
sell the remainder, which at the
end of last term (August 31,
’56) was valued at £4367. At the
same date current assets, includ-
ing £ll5O in stores, amounted to
£7508 and liabilities to £421.
There was also an uncalled
liability of £7500 attaching to
the Day Dawn Gold scrip, but
the co. has since paid £3750 in
calls and expects to cover the
balance by further sales of plant.
The Day Dawn leases (on which
Day Dawn Gold is working
under an option arrangement)
are in the accounts at £149,000.
Expenses incurred during the
year resulted in a loss of £758,
taking the accumulated loss to
£30,768.
Divs. paid by the nine-year-
old co., the last of which was in
1949, total £50,000. The
£200,000 paid capital is in f.-p.
4s. shares, recent sales bringing
around Bd.
United Uranium, N.L.
'T'HE directors of United
Uranium, N.L., will seek
Stock Exchange listing for the
co.’s f.-p. ss. ords. as from May
15. Trading in Uranium Mines,
N.L., and Northern Uranium
Development, N.L., scrip will
cease on that date, and, after
payment of divs. of Is. a share,
the two parent cos. will be
wound-up.
At the joint annual meeting
of N.U.D. and Uranium Mines
last month, it was made clear
the ore-reserves of United
Uranium were insufficient to
justify the erection of a treat-
ment-plant. The co.’s plans are
based on the production, and
delivery to Rum Jungle, of
20,000 tons of ore annually for
the next six years. Prospecting
is to be limited to “the initial
investigation of selected areas,”
and new cos. will be formed to
undertake any subsequent de-
velopment-work. Shares in such
cos. would be available to share-
holders in United Uranium.


SINGAPORE
POLYTECHNIC
SENIOR LECTURER IN
MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The Board of Governors invites
applications from persons with a
suitable Engineering Degree and/or
Graduate Membership of an
appropriate Engineering Institution
with, preferably, good experience in
both industry and in technical
teaching.
It is intended that the department
should offer courses leading to the
examination of the City & Guilds
of London Institute in Machine
Shop Engineering, Pattern Making,
Motor Vehicle Service, Electrical
Installations, Telecommunications,
Welding, etc., and courses of the
National Certificate Type in Elec-
trical and Mechanical Engineering.
The most important duty, at first,
will be helping to equip the new
buildings now in course of erection.
Salary, incorporating all
allowances:
MS I,BOO—M$5O—MS 1,950
per month.
The Malayan Dollar is ‘
2/4d. sterling.
Appointments will be on con-
tract for six years with the option
ol renewal for a further three years.
Insurance scheme; five per cent,
from staff; fifteen per cent, from
college; accommodation, including
heavy furniture at moderate rehtal;
free medical attention; free passages
for overseas persons appointed,
wives and up to three children
under eighteen on first appointment,
ieave, and completion of service;
home leave at the rate of two
months per year’s service; maxi-
mum tour two years.
Application forms (2 copies) and
further information available from
the Principal, Singapore Polytechnic,
P.O. Box 2023, Singapore.
Forms should be returned to the
Principal as soon as possible,
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/6
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
C lncorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720 )
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
London airmail
From Herbert Holman
YX/HILE the immediate reac-
tion to Mr. Thorneycroft’s
Budget was one of gratification
at its triple revelation a
healthy surplus, £lOO million
off the taxation burden and
the implied promise of better
things to come next year—later
reflection has led to disappoint-
ment. Except for the few
whom the Chancellor has cai£-
fully selected for relief, most
Britons will be no better off.
They may be the poorer.
The simple reasoning behind
this unwelcome conviction lies
in the Government’s apparent
acceptance of the wage-price
spiral as an accomplished fact.
The showdown over annual
wage-claims that “had to come
sooner or later” did not take
place. Instead, the Govern-
ment, vice the Transport Com-
mission, capitulated, and, with
the notorious 5 p.c. offer,
opened the dam-gates. For
good or ill, there will never be
a showdown.
The consequences of this are
plainly to be seen. In his
Budget the Chancellor has not
only taken into account this
year’s wage-inflation but has
allowed for next year’s as well.
The benefit of the £ 18-million
cuts in purchase-tax on floor-
coverings, kitchen utensils and
furniture is illusory so far as
the purchaser is concerned.
Fearing rising costs, the manu-
facturers are loth to concede
proportionate price-reductions.
As with the Transport Com-
mission and the theatre-
managers the concession is not
to be passed on to the public.
Cautious Beneficence
The Chancellor’s mild reform
of anomalies in surtax is so
essential and long overdue that
even the Opposition jibes at his
“hoisting the Tory flag” are
muted from lack of conviction.
Looking dispassionately at the
relief (roughly one-fifth of the
£lOO million) he hasn’t given
much away, and what he has
released is very shrewdly ear-
marked.
His two main changes mean
that personal allowances will
count for surtax as well as for
income-tax, and the two-
ninths earned-income allow-
ance will be extended from the
present limit of £2OOO to
£4OOO and thereafter at one-
ninth to £lO,OOO.
The £2OOO limit was fixed
in 1920, and in recent years
has become a deep, restrictive
moat beyond which most
knight-adventurers dared not
venture, for the sufficient
reason that there was little
incentive to take the leap.
Instead, ingenuity has been
applied with over - anxious
craftiness to provide such
“inside” inducements as free
houses, “top - hat” schemes
and generous expenses allow-
ances. The moat has now been
bridged, with the result that
the ivory castle of frustrated
ambition should be less con-
gested.
Another important conces-
sion is the raising of the allow-
ances for children over 16 still
in full-time education from
£lOO to £l5O. This will help
many executives earning
£2500 -plus to send more than
one scholarship-winning child
to the university. Previously
they could not afford to.
Phantasmagoria
The International Play-
wrights’ Theatre is a newly-
formed company which
believes that out -of - the-
ordinary plays can be commer-
cially successful. To sub-
stantiate its self-confidence
two names among its directors
stand out. Campbell Williams
enjoys the double distinction
of having made a fortune from
the “front” (he is head of the
leading ticket-agency), and,
later, of having made a pro-
fitable concern, both finan-
cially and artistically, of the
private Arts Theatre ; and the
other is a young producer,
Peter Hall, of remarkable
talent and capacity.
Their opening venture
(Phoenix Theatre) is bold,
expensive and challenging,
with a cast of some 50 and a
play that was a sorry flop
(losing £44,000) on Broadway.
They affirm that their choice,
Tennessee Williams’s “Camino
Real,” has “a" great contem-
porary importance, apart from
its intrinsic merits.”
The first claim is more ques-
tionable than the second. There
is a wealth of virtuosity, in
writing, production and acting,
but it amounts to little more
than a profligacy of talent.
The situation is similar to
that of “Outward Bound” (in
fact, “Degradation Bound”
would be an apter title) with the
difference that “Camino Real”
is a tropical town, corrupt,
doggone, and, in an odd sleazy
fashion, inscrutable. Don
Quixote (John Wood) seeks
desultorily after knightly honor.
Casanova (Harry Andrews)
is an elderly sponger who is
past his peculiar best and who
ultimately wears the cuckold’s
horns. A has-been American
pugilist (Denholm Elliott),
searching for a sincere woman,
is translated, in the manner of
Bottom, to buffoonery. Mar-
guerite, Lady of the Camellias
(Diana Wynyard), once greatly
sought-after, ignominiously
pays for temporary love. Lord
Byron (Robert Hardy) vainly
seeks an ideal and, before
leaving for the Acropolis, is
morbidly and repulsively
expansive on the death of
Shelley.
If these are the immortals,
the mortals —a fetid rabble of
deadbeats, floozies and volup-
tuaries —are mere dross and
dregs, wholly given up to
sudden'anger, passion and out-
lawry. Death, in the shape of
two street-cleaners, a wheel-
barrow and a bosun’s pipe, is
ever waiting. If there is any
underlying message it is that
life must end in either reversal
of ambition or in sheer hope-
lessness.
Perhaps the key to this
weird adventure is exhibi-
tionism. The author plays all
the dramatic tricks, characteris-
tically fusing morbidity and
sexuality with sultry poetry.
The producer (Peter Hall)
enjoys the glorious and unin-
hibited chance of letting him-
self go. His effects are quite
remarkable, ranging from
poignancy through subtle
comedy to snaky hip-dancing.
The actors relish the oppor-
tunity of being “different.”
Harry Andrews’s tainted
gentility and Diana Wynyard’s
wilted allure surpass mere act-
ing : these portraits of two
faded libertines are mutually
inseparable and movingly
tragic. Also noteworthy are
Freda Jackson’s fruity gipsy,
Elizabeth Seal’s gauche seduc-
tiveness and Denholm Elliott’s
plangent ingenuousness. By
some quirk of the theatre, the
assimilated accent of this
latter, a Scotsman, sounds Aus-
tralian rather than the intended
Texan, but there is no mistak-
ing the knife-edge origin of
Gordon Gostelow’s hardboiled
dosshouse-keeper.


Basic Wage and Basic Facts
T AST week’s decision of the Common-
-*-v wealth Conciliation and Arbitration
Commission to grant an increase in the
Federal basic wage was more than an
echo of the Arbitration Court’s judgment
•on the same question last May. It
was a reaffirmation of principles stated
on that occasion and an expression of
belief that, all things considered, the
trend of the economy in the interven-
ing twelve months had justified the stand
taken last year.
In both cases the rise granted was 10s.,
and in both cases the judges refused to
agree to a restoration of automatic
quarterly adjustments. Furthermore,
in both cases they commented that the
increases would have been greater but for
the fact that previous increases in State
basic wages had imposed a burden on
the community.
Capacity to Pay
In its 1956 judgment the court
emphasised that the Federal basic wage
was “based upon the capacity of the
economy to pay it. It is the court’s
estimate of the biggest basic wage that
the Australian economy can pay.” An
increase which was too big, or granted
at the wrong time, could reduce the
worker’s standard of living and might
create unemployment; because of this,
the court felt it might be dangerous to
make the increase more than 10s. It
would have liked to have given more.
The judgment said that the court’s
dislike of wage disparities and its con-
cern that wage-earners under Federal
awards were receiving a lower basic wage
than those under State awards “had led
it to test an increase of 18s. against the
economic state of the nation,” because
such action would, for a time at least,
bring the two wages to somewhere about
the same level-. However,
Reluctantly, but nevertheless firmly, the
court has come to the view that it would
be at too great a risk that such a wage-
equality would be reached, even if the
equality proved to be more than temporary.
Risk of Disaster
The conditions under which the court
felt it would be able to fix a higher rate
in the full expectation that nearly all
wage-earners would receive the benefit of
it were if the State basic wages were
about the same level as the Federal wage
and if the States were likely to follow
the court’s lead in fixing future increases.
These conditions did not exist, and the
court felt that if it granted a rise
sufficient to bring the basic wage up to
the level of the State basic wages the
country could not pay the increase and
continue to pay the increases already
allowed in the States “without an
imminent risk of national disaster in the
shape of inflation and unemployment.”
When the commission which now
exercises the basic-Wage powers of the
old Arbitration Court announced the
last 10s. increase last week, it also had
something to say about the State basic
wages, remarking that it had taken into
account the fact that about half the wage-
earners were entitled under State awards
to a basic wage not fixed in relation to
the capacity of the community to pay.
But for this fact the Federal wage could
have been fixed at a higher figure.
Losing Two Ways
At the time of the judgment, workers
under State awards and, in some States,
Government workers under Federal
awards, were receiving from 11s. (in
Brisbane) to 225. lOd. (in Perth) a week
more than their friends working under
Federal awards. The unsettling effect of
this disparity scarcely needs comment, but
it is obvious that if the Federal wage is
based* on the capacity of the economy to
pay and the State wages are not, then
those under Federal awards have the
thin end of the stick. As the judgment
points out, they lose in two ways —
directly through getting a smaller wage,
and indirectly through increased prices
caused by the higher State wages.
The commission justified its 10s. award
by saying that it was undeniable that
Australia’s economic condition had
Basic-wage Rates from May 15
Federal. State.
Sydney .. £l3 3 0 £l3 8 0
Melbourne . . 12 15 0 13 3 0
Adelaide .. 12 11 0 12 11 0
Brisbane .. 11 18 0 11 19 0
Perth . . 12 16 0 13 8 10
Hobart . . 13 2 0 13 12 0
changed for the better in the past year.
What it had to decide was whether the
improvement was merely temporary and
whether it was big enough to justify a
rise. They decided that wool-prices were
likely to hold for at least another season
—last year they had been a little cautious
about wool —and that the improvement
in the wool position counterbalanced less
encouraging trends in wheat and other
branches of primary industry. Little
change was noted in secondary produc-
tion. The position of overseas funds had
improved, largely through a rise in wool-
prices and restriction of imports, but
there had also been a rise in exports of
manufactured products.
Cost of Living
Having in mind the C-series index,
the commission said that the Federal
court had twice considered the question
whether it was proper to fix a basic wage
on changes in prices of selected goods
and not on the capacity of the economy
to pay it. At these hearings the States
had been entitled to be represented and
most of them had been. In the course
of the latest hearing by the commission
the Acting Commonwealth Statistician,
Mr. S. R. Carver, had stated that the C-
series index did not measure the change
in the cost of living. “In particular,
the housing component of the index is not
and has not been for a substantial period
on a sufficiently comprehensive basis for
the index to be used in order to estimate
living costs in any particular capital
city.”
Rejecting the claim for restoration of
quarterly adjustments, the judges said
they would agree to an annual review of
the wage if it were applied for. They
suggested that such a review should
preferably occur in the second half of the
financial year, and said they would be
prepared to start the next inquiry on
February 18, 1958.
• This definite undertaking, and the
fact that the Federal increase and the
recent State decreases have brought the
two wage-structures closer together than
they have been for some time, offer a
hope for a return to uniformity in wage-
variations. In this the attitude of
organised Labor is of vital importance.
Last year Albert Monk, president of
the A.C.T.U., called the judgment “a
good kick in the teeth” for the workers
and said it would destroy any remain-
ing faith unionists had in the court.
When last week’s judgment was delivered
Albert was away observing wage-
conditions in Peking, but A.C.T.U.
secretary Souter commented that the 10s.
would only partly restore lost buying-
power and that the only way wage-
justice could be restored was by restoring
quarterly adjustments.
In saying this he was merely repeating
' one of the articles of Labor’s current
creed. Fortunately it is an article which,
since the potato exposed the fallibility of
the C-series index, more and more of the
faithful are beginning to doubt. It may
be taken for granted that quarterly
adjustments, even for Labor State awards,
are on the way out, although for the
sake of appearances and because of the
weight of their own propaganda Labor
leaders will continue to fight a rearguard
action:
The key States in the wage-plan are
N. S. Wales and Victoria. As these are
the chief manufacturing States increases
in their wage-bills pass into the price-
structure of all the other States, whereas
increases in Perth and Hobart, for
example, remain localised. Victoria,
under Cain, maintained automatic
adjustments until Bolte belatedly stopped
them last year. The Cahill Government
in N.S.W. at first adhered to the Federal
plan for suspending quarterly adjust-
ments, but later yielded to trade-union
pressure and reintroduced them. If
Cahill, strengthened by the commission’s
promise of an annual review, can gather
the courage and support to return to his
original stand on this matter there may
be a real chance of achieving wage-
stability.


ENTHUSIASTIC FARMERS EVERYWHERE ARE SAYING
Ampol
ii
1
," m "
■
■
a*;
I!
- *
m
■m.
3888
.
■
.
m
m
m
Sir Walter Merriment (second from left) being congratulated by one of
the three judges after winning the Merino Ram Grand Championship.
Sir Walter says: “1 have used Ampol Products on my several properties for
years and am convinced that not only Ampol Motor Spirit, but Ampol Kerosines *
Distillate and Oils meet the high standards required by the Primary Producing Indus -
try. I find that Ampol’s renowned Service extends beyond their Service Stations
to “The Man on the Land” through the friendly efficiency of their Country Agents VJS
Use the best . . .
s own
*
Oi
a
P o
o
POWER KEROSINE
.
Plug Ampol Distillate O Lighting Kerosins
• Petrol and a fall range of farm lubricants*
VFM.I9.3J


"Dusk"
By MABEL WALN SMITH
SHANGHAI society was
formal. Westerners did
not smile or speak until
they had met properly.
The ladies waited until they
had given me time to settle
into my house. Then, hatted
and white-kid-gloved, they left
cards on the little table that
was inside our front hall.
In return I had to go round
in my best hat and white kid
gloves and place my cards and
my husband’s cards in correct
numbers on the tables ip their
entrances. Then we were invited
to dinner at which we were
carefully seated —the highest
places for Government officials
in precedence of the dates of
the establishment of their
service, and the next places to
merchants according to the
date of the establishment of
their firm’s China trade.
Frederick’s office being the
oldest marine-surveyors’ firm
in the Orient gave us good
“table rank.”
Afterwards, those people to
whom we had been introduced
at the dinner bowed when we
met on the street, graciously
seconded us for any club we
wished to belong to, and we
mingled freely at morning
coffee-parties, luncheons, teas,
over cocktails. At nightclubs
you kept to your own tables,
dancing in courteous rotation
with your own group.
I didn’t meet any Chinese
people in the homes in which
we were entertained, nor did I
meet any missionaries in the
business homes of the com-
munity, but I met many
Europeans in excellent posi-
tions. Any foreign settlement
in the Orient is a series of
cliques, each living as if on a
different plane. These are
your front-gate callers,
"Y'OUR back-gate friends are
those of any race, lowli-
ness, or color who find har-
mony in your words and
laughter. They come in your
rear entrance whenever they
feel the need of your com-
pany.
Mrs. Lars Dammerskjoeld
was of this category. She was
cafe-au-lait in complexion,
with deep brown hair piled
atop her perfectly-modelled
head —the* product of an
autocratic Bessarabian father
who had kindled the lovelight
in the melting dark eyes of a
lushly-rounded Malay girl-
attendant at a fan-tan table on
that lovely Portuguese island,
Macao. Mrs. Lars used frangi-
pani-perfume, her name was'
Dusk, and her voice flowed
rich and smooth like lazy
honey.
You can imagine what this
combination did to men. She
kept a whole houseful of
them —as paying guests, all
white, in substantial posts
(bank - bachelors, oil - men,
accountants, and other poten-
tial managers of important
foreign firms had to wait about
seven years to prove their
worth before they rated a
wife, her passage-money and
housing, in the Orient). Kung,
Dusk’s rotund, convivial cook,
fed these paying guests sump-
tuously. And all bills rendered
were enormous, but all men
fought to live there.
Although I thought of her
warmly and as Dusk, I never
addressed her by any name
but “Mrs. Lars,” thus keeping
to the formality which is cus-
tomary in friendship like ours.
Her walk was naturally seduc-
tive, men’s eyes following the
rhythm of her velvet-soft body,
and to me it was a pleasure to
see her beautifully shaped arms
and legs coming through the
hole in the bamboo-fence
across the back-alley which
separated her domicile from
my garden.
But Shanghai High Society,
who, though our cosmopolitan
city held every shade of pig-
ment (white in the minority),
felt that unadulterated white
was the only skin - color
acceptable—if they thought at
all of Mrs. some
quite pertinent things:
“That Eurasian? My dear,
she keeps the tiny lake at her
place not for boating. It’s a
mosquito-breeder ... At night
she glides through her house
with a sort of twirling, dancing
movement. In and out the
bachelors’ bedrooms, pretends
she’s slapping at mosquitoes!
And,” they leaned closer over
their bridge-tables, “can you
believe it? She’s wearing
absolutely nothing, stark
naked . . .”
The mosquito part of their
gossip, about this lovely
garden-lake being a breeder,
was no doubt true. Periodically
my Wash-amah went to Mrs.
Lars’s lighthearted establish-
ment and sent a big pile of
freshly - laundered finely -
meshed mosquito-nets a-flutter
on a long clothes-line. They
were dyed a pale, romantic
green. But the part about my
neighbor “wearing absolutely
nothing” was a deliberate lie.
Dusk always wore something;
day, and night she wore it:,
frangipani-perfume.
I contend that she was an
invaluable component of our
particular set-up where the


she wore frang ip ani onlij
Double Yoke could become as
irksome as elsewhere on earth,
a bored wife start yawning,
“Our Johnny, poor mite, ’way
’way across the globe in that
bi-ig Public School, should I
go see”—and, under neat cover
of maternal responsibility, nip
aboard one of those luxury-
liners plying in and out of our
port for a solo-cruise, round-
voyage Home. Handsome
officers, starlit nights, and blue
seas complete. Leaving the
Little Man alone to battle for
business in Shanghai.
The mere thought of Mrs.
Lars, cool as a cucumber,
drifting along under the trees
of Avenue Petain, could stay a
feminine foot at the gangplank.
Nothing could be pinned on
Dusk, mind you. There was,
however, that classic once-
upon-a-time: a wife had re-
turned, tripping daintily on
new high-heels, flaunting Paris
clothes, to find her breadwinner
had removed himself to Dusk’s
comfortable menage for the
duration. And ever after could
not be enticed back to his own
domicile . . .
T A R S Dammerskjoeld,
■*“' Dusk’s husband, huge,
red-faced, rough-hewn, was a
Norwegian carpenter whose
ship called spasmodically at
our port. Bringing timber from
the Baltic, oregon-pine from
Seattle.
He mistrusted this languor-
ous, sprawling old house in
desperate need of repair where
bachelors lived so comfortably,
fed by Kung but otherwise
ministered-to, each by his own
servant. Steadily, voyage by
voyage, Lars was adding to the
growing pile of durable timber
under canvas near his garden-
shed, against the day he would
retire from the sea, build a
stout, windproof, two-roomed
home “suitable for a house-
wife” who did all the drudgery,
like wives of sailors among the
fiords in his own country!
Furious-faced, with muscles
bulging, periodically he rushed
home from our city wharf and
lunged at Mrs. Lars’s dainty
cane-tables, lounging-chairs,
plump couches with big, soft
cushions, Coromandel-screens,
carved andirons, mellow-rose
rugs, brass-trays, delicate
figurines, and her paying
guests. Threw them all out.
Bag and baggage they landed
in our rear alley. Furiously he
replaced them with stiff-backed
seats, thick-legged tables, life-
lasting, sparsel y-arranged,
stubbornly hand-made during
the voyage.
He jerked his wife inside the
house and locked the door.
Nights and days later, he
emerged replete, beaming, well-
cared-for, rejoined his ship,
and, I suspect, sailed away
leaving behind him almost no
money. Sailors, nurses, and
others whose roof and food is
included in their pay, often fail
to realise that actual cash is
required to keep a house
running.
Smiling happily, undaunted,
Mrs. Lars quickly sold the
handmade hardwood, re-
covered her own furniture—
which my cookboy Sung and
others had collected from the
alley and had in their safe-
keeping. > Attractive, the place
beckoned. And paying guests
crept back.
There was a richness in her
voice, a ripeness in her
Hebrew-handsome features as
she swept forward, leading an
applicant to a wing graci-
ously; “You’ll be all right in
here,” she’d say.
Naturally, a woman like this
who kept the best boarding-
house in Shanghai was ripened
by experience before she
learned how not to kick the
wolf from the door. Mrs. Lars
coaxed the wolf in, made a pet
of him, then bit by bit she and
Kung stripped the pelt off him.
HPHIS day of spring; 1941, as
she came in my back-way,
joining me at the front, I was
glad to see her. She shooed
away a foreign hawker of
piece-goods who had paused by
our gate, and said, understand-
ing many languages and
dialects:
“Wants to sell something. I
buy notting.”
“Of course,” I agreed,
surreptitiously slipping a five-
dollar bill into Amah s pocket
and winking at her to buy
something before turning
away.
There was no mistaking this
amateur pedlar; he was a
Jewish refugee from Hitler’s
Europe.
“Up the back streets he
should go. It’s against city
rules for even these temporary
salesmen to come up- the front
streets to front-gates. ' Other-
wise we have no peace”
“Not that, just,” said Mrs.
Lars, quite excited. “I buy
notting because I can’t trust
myself today, the eleventh of
the month. Last time I bought
something from a European
pedlar on the eleventh of a
month I ended up in South
America. Buenos Aires to be
exact.”
“Well! Whatever did you
buy?” Charmed, I knew she
was about to raise the curtain
on some of her hidden life.
Arm in arm we entered my
house.
“Soap,” replied Mrs. Lars,
accepting a chair and leaning
back on it, the smoothness of
her slim, cream arms along the
sides of the chair something
fascinating. “It was on the
Bund. Occurred one time
before when I was in this city.
“You see,” she explained
earnestly, “I am always want-
ing to remain right in Shang-
hai, never leave here, but cir-
cumstances keep wanting to
thrust me out. It’s a struggle
between us, with me each time
winning my return!”
I placed cigarettes beside
her and she told me a singular
story. Coming from her full-
curved red lips, her dark green
eyes flashing, oblique and wide-
set under their narrow, flaring
brows, it sounded entirely
plausible:
After some adventures, it
seems, she had managed, that
certain autumn morning, to get
back to Shanghai again. She
had come from inland by
train, had checked her kori
(clothes-and-possessions straw
bag) at North Station, and was
strolling along the waterfront;
inspecting the Garden Bridge,
sniffing the good homely cook-
ing of the Chinese houseboats
on Soochow Creek, the good
homely smell of Whangpu
River mud ; admiring the tall
foreign money-banks, the big
shipping-firm buildings, the
Palace and Cathay Hotels;
musing over how the main
streets start straight at
the Bund, but spread fan-
wise as they proceed to
the Western residential dis-
trict four miles away where we
now were. She was enjoying
herself and waiting to see what
the morning would bring forth,
so she’d know what to take
hold of and make something
out of it.
“I had just passed the
Customs clock when I became
aware of a queer, bunchy sort
of a stooped-over man bumb-
ling along ahead of 'me. He
had on a good, thick, dark-
cloth suit, but it was unpressed.
His dark hat was good, but his
hair stuck out too long under
it —greying hair. His good
leather shoes seemed too heavy
for his tired feet.
“First he’d dart up to a
rickshaw-coolie anxious for a
fare, open the good black-
leather attache-case he carried,
show some article, be pushed
away. He’d fall back. Then
he’d dart forward again, stop
a fine lady on her way to a
breakfast-date, open the
attache-case, show the article,
be pushed away. Next he’d
courageously stop a business-
man engrossed in heavy finan-
cial affairs, be pushed away.
And so it went on: him dart-
ing eagerly forward, showing
the article, being pushed away.
Darting, showing, being
pushed, la ? Never any
success.”
Mrs. Lars’s use of the lower-
class Mafay la (understand?)
as a sentence-ending made me
know that she must have been
reared by her mother’s humble
family in Johore State. And
rumor added the rest: that
although she had inherited her
Bessarabian father’s ear for
languages and his autocratic
nose, his main contribution to
her development had been to
turn her, at a luscious fifteen,
over to a Macao Frenchman in
full payment of a gambling-
debt.
Her lazy, seductive voice
flowed smoothly, telling me
about the man on our city
waterfront.
“I hurried on, lost trace of
him.”
/"\NE of Hitler’s outcasts, a
Jew escaping from perse-
cution to Shanghai, where
China, the last door compas-
sionately open, received forty
thousand of them prior to
World War 11.
I sat on a committee which
tried to arrange livelihoods for
them in our teeming city. The
glove-, fur-, sausage-, hat-,
frock-, cake-, bread-, shoe-,
leather-makers, although in.
harsh competition with ex-
quisite Chinese craftsmanship,
managed to find a niche—until,
eight years later, as displaced
persons, they were helped by
the 1.R.0. to more fertile
shores. But the intelligentsia
among them?
Too often we lost trace of
one who came with so much
richness of culture for our city
—a doctor, a musician, an
o Continued on page 56)


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COUKT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO DOROTHY THELMA BUTLER late
of Esher Street Burwood.—TAKE
NOTICE that ARTHUR MICHAEL
BUTLER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1253 of 1957 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you -wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist July, 1957 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from C. P.
WHITE & SONS, Solicitors, 160 Castle-
reagb Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
Rations,
Troops For The Use Of
By JOHN HARNETTY
THE Australian Digger is
noteworthy in his fond-
ness for tucker with his
meals, and recent
experiments with field-rations
are proving that a campaign-
ing force can march on its
stomach a lot easier than it
did some wars ago.
Diggers engaged in Red-
chasing in Malaya have been
using a British field-ration
when on operations. This is a
handy package in a waterproof
plastic bag containing three
separate meals, also packed in
plastic bags.
An Australian ration of
similar pattern already exists,
and research continues amo'ng
our food-experts to see what
will best suit the Digger palate.
Old hands who have tried
the new ration say it’s some-
thing of a change from the old
bully-beef and hard-tack
(“three to a tin and two a
packet”). Not that the average
Dig. growls much about bully.'
You could do things with it
by frying or stewing if you
didn’t want to take it straight.
But what about that thrice-
damned canned-fish?
The story goes of the Digger
who, when told that his midday
meal was to be tasty ’errin’s in
termarter sauce, remarked
feelingly, “Oh, Gawd, not
them bloody things again! I’ve
eaten so many of them
pregnant prawns me stummick
goes in and out with the tide! ”
Field-rationing has always
been a problem. Old Monsieur
Soyer made things a lot easier
in the Crimea when he intro-
duced the Army stove which
still bears his name. Ever had
to pull one apart and hump it
on to a truckload of camp-
accommodation stores?
The Soyer used in
the Crimea for bulk meals.
Before that, troops drew
individual issues of meat and
vegetables and were left to
cook them as best they could —
and find their own firewood as
well.
©IGGERS in Malaya like the
idea of the operational
ration-pack. They point out
that you don’t get terribly
hungry in the fetid rottenness
of a jungle hideout, just lying
doggo, in wait for the Red who
may shove his nose into your
area.
But Digger appetites are
nonetheless devoted to
groceries. Some troops like
the canned ham-and-egg, some
like the bacon-and-beans, while
others prefer the sausage-and-
beans in the breakfast-pack.
Evening meal is the main
one, with such things as canned
corned-beef (here we go
again!), ham-and-beef, or
liver-and-bacon. There are
also the rice, raisins, and other
bits and pieces with which the
meat can be curried.
There are fuel-tablets to
heat-up the food, and of course
there are the essential side-bits
like tea and sugar.
Australians don’t go much
on the British ration’s midday
snack. They say it has too
many lollies, and not enough
solid stuff. Even when he’s not
really hungry, the Digger still
likes his three squares a day!
These new rations fit neatly
into the top half of a mess-tin.
They don’t chip the vertebrae
as bully-beef cans sometimes
did when they slipped out of
place in the old ’3B-pattern
web haversack. The jungle
haversack has pockets on its
sides, and the mess-tin, with
ration, stows easily into one
of these.
LONG before M. Soyer’s
invention of his stove
(which has often earned the
sincerest curses of Diggers on
woodheap-fatigue because of
the Soyer’s insatiable appetite
for firewood), armies on the
move had to face up to the
problem of food on the march.
Some did it by foraging on the
way. Others were more pro-
vident.
Was it not the ancient Hun
who used his meat-ration as a
saddle, and ate it at body-heat
(human and equine) when the
cookhouse-call was sounded?
World War II gave young
Diggers a chance to taste the
Maconochie’s which had
earned the praises or the curses
of their forebears of World
War I. Some of the new
Diggers found .it good, some
didn’t go for it at all. But it
was a generously thick type
of stew, with plenty of vege-
tables, and it certainly stuck
to the ribs. In the Sixth
Division’s Western Desert
advance in near-Arctic
temperatures, it was usually
appreciated when somebody
“latched on” to some tins.
Just throw it in the fire,
chisel off the top of the can
with a bayonet, and dinner
is served!
In the Desert, German
troops of the Afrika Korps had
their food problems as well,
although they were initially
well supplied with such things
as canned-bread, sausage,
and even beer. But when
convoys were sparse, it seems
that the Germans had to share
Italian rations, which were not
very popular.
Brigadier Desmond Young’s
biography of Rommel mentions
a particularly unpopular type
of canned-meat on issue to the
Germans from Italian sources.
It bore the initials “A.M.”
(“Administrazione Militare”).
The Germans called it “Alte
Mann” (“Old Man”).
Oddly enough, the Italians
had some excellent dehydrated
onions, and their wholemeal-
flour made fine dampers. Their
canned fish-steaks in olive-oil
were a popular grab when the
Diggers came on an abandoned
food-dump.
But the Italian army-biscuits
were something to be used
only as housing-material. How
the Italian troops ate them
without prolonged soaking
remains a mystery. In their
dry state they would have
resisted assault with a jack-
hammer.
THE Korean War provided
a headache for logistics-
officers of the United Nations
Command. Many items came
from American sources, but the
British Commonwealth
Division provided a lot of its
own food, particularly a skin-
less sawdust-and-breadcrumb
sausage which excited no
enthusiasm and less appetite.
Australian troops in forward
areas were given plenty of
American turkey and ham, but
even these choice foods began
to cloy after a while, and there
were nostalgic murmurs about
the glories of a typical baked
dinner —with either beef or
mutton as the centre-piece.
The American canned C-
ration was popular at first, but
its generally pappy nature
caused troops to tire of it, and
even troops from the land of
its origin were ready to give
it away. Tommy troops were
keen to get more bread, so a
British field-bakery on the
outskirts of Seoul worked
overtime to keep it up to
them.
The Indian Field Ambulance
was practically self-sufficient
both for religious and dietetic
reasons. Their curries were
marvels, and amply calculated
to keep out the Arctic chill of
the Korean winter.
Ration - packs for the
Turkish Brigade Group and
other Muslim troops were
carefully marked. Ham and
pork played a big part in the
canned-ration scale, and no-
body wanted trouble with sons
of Islam over that.
With the trend towards
streamlined warfare, perhaps
the light field-ration pack will
supersede the old cookhouse-
system in forward areas.
Current experiments tend that
way, what with checks on
weight of soldiers used as
experimental controls, exami-
nation of “plate wastage” in
consumption of new ration-
packs, and observation of
general tolerance of the
soldier to them over long
periods.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses
Lindbergh, as a top two-year-
old, won £11,520 in stakes, his
main successes being in the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, the
Sires’ and the Champagne
Stakes. It was then considered
that he was no more than a
good-class sprinter with best
prospects up to a mile, an
opinion formed after he failed
when tried as a stayer at three
years. However, with a bit of
age he has developed more
stamina. Earlier this season he
won at nine furlongs at Canter-
bury Park; and his latest
success, in City Tattersall’s
Handicap at Randwick, has
proved he can get a mile-and-a-
quarter without difficulty.
• • • •,
Lindbergh had good support
on Saturday, for it was con-
sidered that he was nicely
placed on 8.3 after his second
with 9.1 in the w.-f.-a. All-Aged
Stakes to Kingster; a drop of
121 b. to handicap - condi-
tions. Jockey Ray Selkrig
handled the five-year-old with
skill. His rivals seemed to
think he’d stop; he did —in
front. Lindbergh, making all
his own pace, ran 2.31, which
is seldom recorded in mile-and-
a-quarter events. He was the
first of the progeny of imported
Transatlantic to be sold in
Sydney, and realised 800gns. as
a yearling. There’s no reason
why he shouldn’t stick a bit,
with, in his family-lines,
Mutable, a winner of the Aus-
tralian Cup, and Calibrate
(N Z. Cup). His dam, Dare,
was got by Heroic from Our
Dell by Boniform.
The two-year-old Gold
Stakes bolted through the
Randwick crowd on Sydney
Cup day and was withdrawn
from his race engagement. He
bolted again at the same course
last Saturday, but this time
jockey A. Mulley was on top,
and the gelding landed a
spectacular plunge. Gold
Stakes had one of the easiest
wins ever seen on the course.
What’s more, he ran the six
in 1.11. which was almost up
to Todman for the distance.
The Randwick record is 1.91.
Absence from the racing
scene for more than three
months didn’t prevent the two-
year-old filly Bright Circle from
getting away with the City
lattersall’s Nursery. She led
throughout the six furlongs,
and ran 1.111, a smart gallop
for a till-then maiden per-
former. She is a daughter of
Damnos (Fr.) and Double
Diamond. The latter is by
Double Remove (imp.) froni
Lady Silvius by Silvius (imp.)
from Maltgilla by Malt King.
Concise, a sister to Double
Diamond, won the A.J.C.
December Stakes.
McHarry, a colt with a good
record in Perth, including the
"Word, name and address of next-of-kin , just in case.”
w.-f.-a. Lee Steere Stakes, run
last January, was reckoned by
the Gordon Ray stable to have
an excellent chance in the
Randwick three - year - old
Handicap, but the colt must
have left his gallop on the
track: he was never a hope,
and finished a distant fourth.
N. SellwoOd was given the
mount, but McHarry failed to
carry his 8.10; he is perhaps
getting too much weight.
Cotton, who narrowly got
the Randwick Club Welter on
Saturday, may be sent to Bris-
bane for the main mid-winter
sprints. But she will find the
opposition much tougher than
the seven who ate her dust in
the welter. Cotton has had
as trainers J. Green, P.
GUtteridge and J. Haigh, who
secured her a couple of weeks
back from Gutteridge, and
had put the polish on the mare
for her Randwick win. She
has always been a brilliant
trackworker; any morning at
Rosebery she could have held
the sprinting honors if set
against the watch.
• • • •
In winning his first race —the
Randwick Novice, over a mile-
and-a-quarter —Squire, owned
and trained by Sydney’s leading
mentor, T. J. Smith, appeared
lucky to beat the warm
favorite, Macdougal. Appren-
tice R. Greenwood, who had
won on Macdougal at the
gelding’s previous start —also
at Randwick, about 10 days
earlier—this time didn’t ride
quite as well; he raced very
wide at the top of the straight,
tactics which seldom pay off.
Macdougal, however, should
quickly make amends. The
winner, Squire, is a three-year-
old gelding by Bossier (imp.),
formerly located in New
Zealand but now in N.S.W. He
won races to 1| mile in
England, and is a son of Bois
Roussel.
Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide trainers are making
arrangements for the rich mid-
winter Ascot and Doomben
meetings. Several New Zealand
horses will, of course, also be
competing ; some are already
going through their paces at
Brisbane fixtures. N.Z. sprinter
Kingship was among the
Doomben winners last Satur-
day. He won the £2OOO New-
market Handicap, for which he
started equal favorite with
Adelaide’s top sprinter Copper
Year a much - travelled
galloper who should benefit
from the run. Kingship, who
beat Psycho and New Joy into
the minor berths, has the
polish put on him by Bris-
bane’s top trainer, H. F. Best.
With the Nationals just two
months away, interest is
quickening in Melbourne
jumping races. Last Saturday,
for the first time this year, the
V.R.C. included two cross-
country events in its Fleming-
ton programme. Numerically,
fields in both races were weak
—only six started in the Barkly
Hurdle, and five in the Grass-
mere Steeple. Nevertheless,
the racing was good. There
were no falls in either event,
and the respective winners
impressed as National pros-
pects.
• • • '•
Lord Celere’s win in the
Barkly Hurdle was his first
jumping success, and only his
fourth start over the sticks.
But for two years trainer J. E.
Bond has been sharpening up
the Gay Lad gelding’s flat-form
with periodic schooling, and
believes he will be seasoned
enough for the exacting three
miles of the National Hurdle.
He will get into that race with
a light weight, and his form
over the next few weeks will
be watched with interest.
Franstone’s win in the Grass-
mere Steeple completed a most
successful week for Western
District trainer Kevin Lafferty.
At Warrnambool’s three-day
Grand Annual Steeple meeting,
he trained all three placegetters
in the Brierly Steeple, which
Franstone won, and the only
two runners to finish in the
Grand Annual. On Saturday
Franstone led throughout, and
in turn beat off challenges
from each of his four oppon-
ents. He went to the post full
of running, and is the best
National Steeple prospect in
sight.
On trial for a start in the
Adelaide Cup to be run on
May 15, aged stayer Oxley
earned the trip when he scored


a last-stride win in the 14-
furlongs Cardinia Handicap at
Flemington. Messrs. E.
Baillieu and B. Matear bought
Oxley in Sydney with the idea
of making a jumper of him.
The Delville Wood gelding
showed no liking for the sticks,
but he has been a good money-
spinner on the flat for his Mel-
bourne owners, winning eight
races and just on £12,000
stakes. Oxley’s record, coupled
with Electro’s win in this year’s
Sydney Cup and Evening Peal’s
Melbourne Cup, discounts the
theory that the Delville Wood
stock cannot get two miles.
Oxley has twice won over that
distance, and with 9.0 —
31b less than he carried in
the Cardinia —he will be a
popular choice in the Adelaide
Cup.
Tipping the scales at
10701 b., Tuki is probably the
heaviest two-year-old racing in
Australia. His sire, Paramount,
was a first-class sprinter on
English courses, but the manner
in which Tuki wore down the
favorite, Famed, in the mile
Ferndale Handicap, indicated
that he could develop into a
useful stayer. Tuki’s win was
an improvement on his recent
form, but he is such a gross
colt that he probably needs a
lot of racing to bring him to his
best. He will now go to
Adelaide, and should do well
in the two-year-old events at
the Cup meeting. Tuki was
bought privately by R. H.
Landale, who races him in
partnership with T. K. and F.
Falki ne r . The trio are
property-owners in the Denili-
quin district.
Tuki is regarded as a Derby
hope, and on breeding he could
prove a sound, stayer in the
coming season. He’s by Para-
mount (imp.) from Rapallo by
El Golea from Donna Vectis
(imp.) by Donatello II
(winner of eight races in Italy,
including the Derby). Tuki is a
direct descendant of the famous
mare Pretty Polly who won
£37,927 in stakes, among her
wins the Oaks, the One
Thousand Guineas and the St.
Leger. The noted N.Z. sire
Foxbridge (imp.) also appears
in Tuki’s lines. His dam
Rapallo didn’t race.
Supporters of Watch Out in
the mile-and-a-half Terrace
Handicap for three-year-olds,
had no difficulty following that
horse in the race. He is a real
rocking-horse grey, easily dis-
tinguishable in a field. Bill
Williamson had the winning
ride on Watch Out —his 50th
for the season —and he was so
impressed with the grey’s per-
formance that he urged trainer
Des. McCormick to start him in
the S.A.J.C. St. Leger at
Morphettville next Saturday.
It had taken the N.Z.-bred
gelding a long time to break
through for a win in Mel-
bourne, but staying is his game,
and he should run well in the
South Australian classic. He is
ownecTby George Hoadley.
It was said here last week that
jockey Doug Barclay’s come-
back attempt was a complete
success. A few hours later
Barclay was fatally injured in
a fall from Bow Royal in the
Albury Gold Cup. The same
accident claimed the life of
Riverina jockey Maurie Gray.
Gray was the most successful
jockey ever to ride in the
Riverina, and, in a career
stretching over 26 years, won
some 1200 races. He was 43,
and left a widow and four
sons. Barclay had a chequered
career. He was a most promis-
ing apprentice, but increased
weight almost forced him out
of- the game. He made a
dramatic comeback to ride
11 metropolitan winners in
the seven weeks before his
death. He was 28, and left a
widow and two sons.
* * *
Caduceus and Radiant Ven-
ture met again at Harold Park
on Saturday night, this time in
the Invitation Thousand —the
big black on 12yds., Caduceus
on 48yds., 12yds. worse terms
for Caduceus than the Lord
Mayor’s Cup, and just on two
furlongs less to travel. Scimitar
made the pace, and stayed in
front till First Variety made
his move. Caduceus sprinted
from his back mark to be with
the field, but he was kept wide ;
never on the course. First
Variety shot clear and looked
the winner, only to fold when
the brakes were released;
Radiant Venture came at the
full pace and raced clear;
Caduceus fought on unbeliev-
ably for second ; Anytime was
a promising third.
Caduceus ran the Ilf
furlongs in 3.4 f, which is a
second faster than the race-
record held by the rtiighty
Ribands; it is a pity that,
since he did not win the event,
his time will not be recog-
nised. But he’ll go down as
one of the gamest and most
brilliant pacers ever to grace
the circuit.
• • • •'
The N.S.W. Pacers’ Derby
heats went off not uneventfully.
Diabolo Don cleared right
away with the first heat; Park
Raid and Western Pearl filled
minor berths. Ban gar oo Lass,
given the hardest race of her
life, somehow managed to run
fourth and qualify. First
Knight, Sires’ Produce winner,
led from jump to judge in the
second for a nice win; the
N.Z. colt Dignus followed him
in ; Night Reveller, promising,
was next. The final is made
very difficult by the fact that
most of the youngsters will be
greatly improved by their heat-
runs.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
Country I v. City I, at North
Sydney Oval on Saturday, was
willing—and, at times, very
exciting—Rugby Union. City
won 17-9 ; but it was only in
the last quarter-hour, when
City scored its two tries, that
it managed to get on top.
Country led 6-3 at half-time,
and was 9-3 midway through
the second half. Still, one felt
all through that City had in
reserve that little extra science
(though not pace) in the backs,
and weight and experience in
the forwards, that would win it
the game.
Which is not to say the
Farmers didn’t play well. They
did. They began at a cracking
pace, and were nearly in a
couple of times in the first
few minutes; and they played
constructive football all the
way though some ragged
edges were evident. They
weren’t overawed by reputa-
tions. The Country pack held
its own with the “name”-
studded City pack, in scrums,
lineouts and rucks and in
general play —and in the rough-
stuff.
Country suffered a blow
when its speedy centre,
Graham Bailey, had to go off
in the first lOmin. City’s loss,
a few minutes later, of break-
away Keith Cross was nowhere
near comparable though
Cross had admittedly made one
or two of his typical bursts.
Bailey’s presence on the field
could have made a big differ-
ence to the result.
Country Union supporters
have long justifiably maintained
that its representation in N.S.W.
teams has been inadequate. It
has six in the 17-man team
which, in Brisbane, is to play
Queensland under floodlights
tomorrow night and again on
Saturday. Winger John Stan-
brook, lock Peter Fenwicke
and big fierce-looking second-
rower Alec Roberts all fully
earned selection on Saturday’s
form—as did 18-year-old full-
back Terry Curley, who out-
played City’s Col Smee (apart
from his goalkicking, Smee had
an unhappy match). Six only
of City I were chosen for the
State, the selectors going to
City II for three backs and a
hooker, while five-eighth Tooth
was, somewhat luckily, chosen
without having a run in either
game. Test-players like winger
Stapleton, halves Cox and
Burke (both of whom, never-
theless, seemed to be as clever
and nippy as before), and for-
wards Shehadie, Miller and
Davidson were passed over.
By contrast with the main
game, City II and Country II
(won easily by City, 25-3) was a
tame affair, with these
particular men from the open
plains nowhere near a match
for their urban opponents.
Still, the two City v. Country
games could well be made
annual affairs.
* * *
In the third round of the
V.F.L., Hawthorn was toppled
off the top perch by improved
but still (at the previous round)
third-last North, which won
13.9-11.12 ; in a seesaw game
North had to come from behind
at the finish to win. Colling-
wood went down to Kardinia
Park, and on that (to invaders
from the city) usually inhospit-
able ground beat Geelong
12.15-12.5 ; ’Wood was strong
in defence and had a winning
goal-to-goal line. However,
despite chalking-up this
creditable victory the Magpies
slip down a place on the
ladder, and accordingly are in
last possie. Reason for this
was last round’s wooden-
spooner, South, ding-donging
Richmond 19.16-13.9 in a fast,
open game. “Sowth” has the
talent, but earlier didn’t seem
to use it properly ; against Rich-
mond Fred Goldsmith, a
likelier full-forward than those
used before, kicked nine
beauties.
Melbourne, faster and much
stronger, did-over Essendon
properly, 11.20-5.11. Essendon
just wasn’t in it—if the Demons
had matched their pace and
vigor with straighter kicking
they’d have finished with a
cricket-total. Footscray, now
on top of the ladder, beat Carl-
ton 9.10-7.9, though the Bull-
dogs had to work hard to do so,
while F i t z r o y comfortably
accounted for St. Kilda, 12.16-
9.11.
The other day Richmond
(V.F.L.) club signed-up the
youngest person ever to be


Cut your tyre costs with
bOOD^fEAR
TUBELESS TYRES
'Cold
Rubber"
Oi
o
MORE
MILES
“Cold Rubber’s”
outstanding toughness
and resistance to abrasion
extends the life of your
tyres over many more
thousands of miles. What’s
more, Goodyear Tubeless
Tyres with “Cold Rubber”
give you this bonus
mileage at no extra cost.
See your Goodyear
Dealer and have them
fitted TODAY.
'\'4
&
%
y / /
y/ / y
// / v
(j
/ /
/,/
:/-.//
Y / / ./
' ,// / /
/ / /:/
' 77 /,/
/ /77
m
C
/ fJ
i
r./if
ft
i
%
N\ 7 \
“You save on repairs, too,”
says leading Jockey,
Neville Sellwood.
“No need to take
your car to the
garage for a tube-
less repair. With a
Simplug repair kit
you save money by
doing the job your-
self in a matter of
m
minutes without even taking the tyre
from the wheel. Punctures, rare as
they are with Goodyear Tubeless,
have no chance of making me miss a
race ride.”
TUBELESS AND TUBE-TYPE TYRES
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OYER, RIDE OH GOODYEAR TYRES TRAM ON ANY OTHER W**
signed-up by a League club—
-11-year-old Haydn McDonald,
son of Richmond's lately
appointed coach, Alan Mc-
Donald. Reason for the
cradle-snatching, that he would
otherwise have been resi-
dentially bound to Hawthorn.
Alan McDonald played 43
games with Richmond before
the war—had he played 50, his
son, under V.F.L. rules, would
have been free to play with the
Tigers wherever he lived and
without having to worry about
a permit.
* * *
Time for turn-ups: Newtown
Rugby Leaguesters, playing
their first match-of-the-day this
season, provided one by send-
ing the glamor-team Wests to
the showers noses down, 28-20 ;
a convincing victory. In other
matches, St. George just
scrambled in, 53-14, against
Parramatta; Balmain tore
away the last shreds of South
Sydney’s reputation, 41-14;
Canterbury, in a grim match,
held Manly to a 5-all draw ;
Norths accounted for Easts,
15-7, in a bright match.
i
“Ailsey”: Australian Johnnie
Hunter has played his last
Rugby League game with the
Huddersfield (Yorkshire) club,
and is off home to Sydney.
Altogether he played 346 games
with Huddersfield ; he was one
of the personalities of the
English Rugby League. Hunter
was possibly the most popular
Aussie ever to play in England.
In his final match he took off
his jersey and threw it to the
crowd as a souvenir as he left
the field. Meanwhile Lionel
Cooper, another Aussie, was
leaving for home to be player-
coach for Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) Club. Cooper went to
England in 1947.
* * *
Weekend sporting mixed-
grill: Aston Villa won the
76th English Football Associa-
tion cup-final, defeating Man-
chester United 2-1 —Aston’s
seventh cup-final win; in
another Soccer game, in Bris-
bane on Saturday, Queensland
and N.S.W. a 2-all draw ; Lew
Hoad, defeated in straight-sets
(6-4, 6-4, 6-4) by Drobny, in the
final of the British hardcourt
championship; at Petersham
(Sydney) on Sunday, after visit-
ing star pitcher Lou Brissie had
pitched the first ball, N.S.W.
defeated U.S.S. Bennington
13-3 at baseball; and, at
Warwick Farm, also on Sun-
day, N.S.W. North defeated
Queensland 7-6 in the final for
the Australasian Polo Gold
Cup.


SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Old Australian badges, shoulder-
titles and helmets. —6504.
To buy copy of A Smaller
Classical Dictionary. —6505.
Information Sought
Particulars of Henry Cabot Lodge,
U.S. representative at the United
Nations ?
Grandson of the famous U.S.
Senator of the same name (1850-
1924), he was born at Nahant
(Mass.) on July 5, 1902, and was
educated at Middlesex school,
Concord (Mass.), and at Harvard
University. He began as a reporter
with the Boston “Evening Tran-
script” in 1923, and joined the New
York “Herald Tribune” in 1924.
Elected to the U.S. Senate from
Massachusetts in 1936, for the term
ending in Jan., 1943, he was
re-elected in 1942, but resigned to
join the U.S. Army. He was a
major with the Ist Am. Tank
Detachment i» the British Eighth
Army in Libya in 1942, earning a
citation, and fought in Italy in
1944; promoted It.-col., he served
in France, on the Rhine and in
southern Germany in 1944-45. He
was decorated with the bronze-star
(1944), the Legion of Merit medal
(1945) and six battle-stars, and with
the French Legion of Honor and
Croix de Guerre (with palm). On
Nov. 5, 1946, he was re-elected to
the Senate for the term ending in
1953, in which year he became chief
U.S. delegate to the U.N. In 1952 he
was campaign - manager for
President Eisenhower. He has
been awarded honorary degrees at
several American universities.
* * * *
On the Sendee page {B. 24/4/’57)
were related some of the steps lead-
ing to Constitutional government in
Australia. Could something similar
be given of the steps leading to
I ederation ?
This is a big question, and the
necessarily very brief account here
given disregards a lot of important
moves and counter-moves, conflicts,
side-issues and inter-State jealousies
arising through the years out of this,
ai the time, very controversial topic.
The first move towards Federation
was in 1849, when Earl Grey, the
British Colonial Secretary,
endeavored to have formed a body
to be called the General Assembly
of Australia; to consist of mem-
bers to be elected by the State Parlia-
ments; but the time was not ripe
for Federation, and the proposal
came to nothing. Some 30 years
later Henry Parkes suggested a
Federal Council, and in 1885 the
British Parliament passed a bill to
establish such a Council, which
was duly constituted. However, it
was, for practical purposes,
ineffective, mainly because N.S.W.
failed to back it (though he had
first proposed the idea, Parkes for
various reasons rigidly opposed
N.S.W. having anything to do with
it). Parkes reopened the Federal
question in 1889, and, though other
politicians naturally regarded him
suspiciously, his efforts resulted in
the holding, in Sydney in 1891, of
the first Australasian Federal Con-
vention. The convention’s mem-
bers were chosen from all the
Parliaments of the colonies, and
represented the best political talent
of the time. It prepared the first
draft Constitution, the basis of the
Constitution prepared by the second
(1897-98) Federal Convention. How-
ever, there is much more than this
account to Australia’s attaining of
nationhood. As Ernest Scott’s
A Short History of Australia says,
“The history of the Constitution
between the time when it left the
hands of its framers in March, 1898,
and its enactment as a statute of the
Imperial Parliament in July, 1900,
is full of interest. This, indeed, was
the critical ‘period of Australian
Federal history. Into those 28
months were crowded many strange
political adventures and a whirl of
excitement, including some
acrobatic feats.” The final step was
the Royal proclamation of Sept. 17,
1900, declaring that the Common-
wealth of Australia was to come into
being on and after Jan. 1, 1901.
* * * *
I recall reading of a “birdman”
who' crashed to his death in the
past year or so ? Who was he ?
This was the 37-year-old. French-
man Leo Valentin, who died when
his parachute failed to open at a
charity air-display at Liverpool
(Eng.) on May 21, 1956. Joining
the French Air Force as a
parachutist before World War 11,
he served with British paratroops
during the war, and soon afterwards
made a record free drop of four
miles. He then set out to improve
on the efforts of the American
“birdman” Clem Sohn, who had
plunged to his death in France in
1937. At first he used similar gear,
but, not satisfied, he devised new
equipment—a suit consisting of
stiff, hinged, plywood wings attached
to his body by a steel corset, with a
hand-grip controlling ailerons along
the leading-edge. The idea of the
corset was that, when the parachute
rip-cord was pulled, the wings could
be released, to drop separately at the
end of the corset, and so avoid the
possibility of entangling the ’chute.
Valentin made more than 600 jumps
from planes, many of which
became “bird-flights.” He was
able to “fly” at a level height for
quite a distance. After jumping
lrom a plane at 9000 ft. over Orly
(France) in May, 1954, his first
flight in the suit he himself devised,
he flew in level flight, did a series of
spirals, and rolled over and flew
level on his back for a distance, in
ail, of three miles —a feat claimed
tc be the first free flight ever made
by man. He wrote an
autobiography, bad. Man.
* * * *
Some details o'f the workings of
the hydrogen-peroxide turbine
aeveloped by Germany in World
War II for the purpose of driving
submarines ? Are these turbines in
use today?
(From the Department of the
Navy.)
In hydrogen-peroxide propulsion
engines liquid high-test peroxide
(H.T.P.) is used in concentrations of
80-85 p.c., the dilutent being water.
The liquid will decompose exothermi-
cally if either heat or a catalyst is
supplied, liberating about 1000
B.T.U.s of superheated steam and
oxygen at about 900° F. The
decomposed H.T.P. is used as an
oxidant to burn a hydrocarbon fuel.
The H.T.P. is decomposed separately
and then brought into contact with
fuel in a combustion-chamber.
Three basic cycles are the most
common.
Indirect steam-cycles: Decom-
posed H.T.P. is used to burn fuel in
a combustion-chamber which
exhausts to the gas side of a steam-
boiler. Exhaust-gas is discharged
overboard against depth-pressure.
The steam generated can be used in
either turbine or reciprocating engine
as desired.
Direct cycle: The combustion-
chamber exhaust is expanded directly
in a turbine, which either exhausts
overboard against depth-pressure, or,
more efficiently, to a condenser
where steam is condensed, and the
residual CO2 is discharged overboard
by a separate compressor.
Re-cycle diesel: Most of the
exhaust-gas of a diesel-engine is
returned to the iiriet-manifold,
enriched with H.T.P. and re-admitted
to the cylinders. Two- or four-
stroke diesel-engines can be con-
verted simply by the addition of an
external pipe-system. Excess
exhaust-gas is discharged overboard
by a compressor.
The latter cycle, despite some
inherent inefficiences, has a con-
sumption better than the other two.
The Germans built three small
and five operational vessels; the
latter were not operational during
World War 11. All were direct-cycle
turbine-units, the prototype using
decomposed H.T.P. only; the later
units used diesel-fuel burnt in the
steam-oxygen mixture of decom-
posed H.i.P.
The five submarines were each
2500 S.H.P. at 14,000 r.p.m. single-
screw turbine-units; a 7500 S.H.P. at
10,000 r.p.m. units was developed,
but no submarines were completed
with this unit.
The Royal Navy has launched a
submarine, H.M.S. Explorer, which
is driven by a re-cycle diesel-engine.
Some of the more important
properties of H.T.P. are: (a) It will
not detonate, nor will its vapor; (h)
It is non-inflammable, though it
supports combustion; (c) It will
decompose with any organic material
and many inorganic ones. Decom-
position is fierce and combustion
of material violent; ( d) It is rendered
harmless by dilution below 50 p.c.
with water when it no longer
supports combustion.
Brief Answers
E.M.S.: Beekeeping without
Tears is obtainable from Mr. C. A.
Hungerford, Apiarist, P.O. Kurra-
jong Heights, N.S.W. The price of
the booklet is 255. Proceeds of the
sales are devoted to furthering the
idea propounded in the booklet—
thus the high price H.C.G.: (1)
List of Australian books on the
subject was printed on the Service
page last week (B. 1/5/’57). (2)
Probably difficult to buy. Try
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, or
Dymock’s, 424 George-street,
Sydney ; or a secondhand-bookseller
“ Psst—come up here , George—very comfortable."


Faith in the
Fuinre
\
»
When two advisers of the World Bank came
here last year to assess the Australian potential,
we were interested to know what view they would
form growing economy.
They went into our agricultural and mineral
provinces, looked over the industrial scene. And
the World Bank has granted Australia another
loan of 50-million dollars (about £A22,250,000).
The purposes for which the funds have been
allocated include mechanisation in agriculture, the
development of mining, improvements to railways
and roads. .
Now, these loans are a declaration of Faith
in Australia and in us —and by men accustomed to
solid, business-like thinking free of the patriotic
sentiment with which we ourselves would view our
country’s Future.
Let us, then, appreciate the reasons for this
evaluation and trust. They are to be seen in the
memorandum with which the Bank accompanied the
latest loan:
The remarkable results Australia has shown in
methods of land clearance, conserving water and
fodder, improving soil fertility, and controlling the
rabbit pest; and the employment of 30 per cent, of
our labour force in manufacturing, to produce one-
third of the national product.
It is a heartening report that should strengthen
our determination to make this country still sounder,
more productive, more ready to promote the trade
on which the economy depends.
In other words, we’ve to quicken the life stream
to which loans and capital investment from over-
seas are a welcome and necessary infusion.
Australia is fortunate in having its wide areas
for expansion. But the bigness must be matched
by our self-effort from within.
Canada also is a large country of relatively
small population ; and because the Canadians are
an investing people, they have brought their
country up within a few years to rank- among the
• richest in the world.
such as Tyrrell’s Pty., Ltd., 202
George-street, Sydney. (3) Write
Taronga Zoological Park Trust and
Aquarium, Sydney, or Australian
Museum, College-street, Sydney. (4)
Examination-records of shark-
attacks do not support the view that
sharks attack only the naked flesh.
Many instances are known of bites
on parts of the body, covered by a
costume. (5) A booklet, Shark
Attacks in Australian Waters, by
Victor Coppleson, originally pub-
lished in the “Medical Journal of
Australia” (April 15, 1933), lists all
shark-attacks on bathers, fishermen
and men in boats between 1919 and
1933.... E.A.W.: (1) The Australian
Wheat Board was established by the
Commonwealth Government in
1939 under the National Security
(Wheat Acquisition) Regulations.
It was reconstructed under the Com-
monwealth Wheat Stabilisation Act
1948, the reconstructed board begin-
ning operations on Dec. 18, 1948.
(2) The International Wheat Agree-
ment was ratified on July 1, 1949.
For the first year of 1.W.A., the top
export-price for wheat was 11s. 2d.,
with a bottom price of 7s. Id., the
top figure being about 3s. under
the previous open-market price. (3)
In B. 24/8/’49 Teasdale, of the
Australian Wheat Board, was quoted
as describing the I.W.A. as an
American plan to sell U.S. wheat
which might be unsaleable because
of Europe’s dollar-shortage. In the
same issue The Bulletin, describ-
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance. Para-
graphs are paid for on publi-
cation, and the contributor
must claim for payment.]
ing the I.W.A. as a “thing of shreds
and patches,” said “Canberra
[i.e., the Chiiiey “Labor” Govern-
ment] has taken Australian wheat-
gtowers for a ride.” (4) There was
some such arrangement, but details
were kept pretty secret....
A.D.8.R.: Sydney G.P.S. Head of
the River was first rowed on the
Nepean River in 1936 (won by St.
Joseph’s from Shore). The change
irom the Parramatta River permitted
the eight crews to contest the one
race and so dispense with heats,
as were necessary on the Parra-
matta ; also, holding the race on
the Nepean gives none of the crews
any positional advantage, as was
the case on the Parramatta....
H.F.H.: Suggest you contact the
manufacturers, Walsh Engineering,
Piper-street, Toowoomba (phone,
Toowoomba 5406)... .E.C.H.:
(From the Bureau of Meteorology.)
It is well-known that the tides are
largely controlled by the effect of
the gravitational pull of the moon ori
the earth, and it is known that the
moon causes a mioroscopic tide in
the earth’s atmosphere; but we do
not know of any experiments carried
out on the phases of the moon and
do not think they affect the weather.
. ..M.A.P.: Write Mr. J. Tyrrell,
Tyrrell’s Bookshop, 202 George-
street, S y d n e y.... W.K..R.:
Ab’ondance in trumps declaree,
abondance declaree, misere ouverte,
abondance in trumps, misere,
abondance, solo, proposal and
acceptance Hoyle... .A.M.D.:
Asia (including Asiatic Russia)
extends over almost one-third of
the land-surface of the globe. The
distance between its extreme longi-
tudes (the west coast of Asia Minor
and the East Cape) is 6000 miles.
The extreme latitudes (Cape
Chelyuskin and Cape Bulus) are
5350 miles apart.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
T.P.: Hard to tell if “Leather-
jacket" is a fish or a human being.
. ...V.0.: “Prisoner of Fate”
sentenced to twenty years in the
basket... .VV.F.L.: “Food for
Thought” left us hungry E.G.:
Liked the bit about the trumpeter
“blowing notes as smooth and
golden as honey,” but the rest is
u n appet isin g....R.E.: .Your
“Leprechauns” have been shot
A.W.: Still puzzling over
“diatonicised chromaticism”....
S.O’M.: Both style and typewriter
need improving... .K.R.0.: “Ode
to Norma” odious T.M.: Bellow-
ing military character not new....
S.W.: “Scarlet Starlet” made us see
red....J.J.: Bit far-fetched, surely?
. ...H.D.: Reads as if you’ve swal-
lowed a dictionary of slang....
D.L.D.: “The Lost Chord” won't
bnd itself in our pages... .R.K..:
Couldn’t have been done much
worse... .A.E.L.: The main thread
is smothered in a welter of dialogue.
. ...J.K.: Nymph a bit flighty tor
us but she’s a nice nymph....
J.G.: A storm is so large a subject
that it’s almost impossible for an
amateur to encompass it in verse;
and your cyclone drops into an
awful gap when you come to the
line “Australia's philosophic sons
commence”... .The Nark: Admire
your rhyme for “masthead,” but it
didn’t appeal to the Religious Editor.
H.M.: We must find a resting-
place for:
JUST A NO-HOFER?
Lonely and looking so very forlorn,
Destitute, hungry with nothing to pawn.
Friendless, forsaken to live or to die.
Beaten although he had made a try.
Battered and hurt by a violent world,
Now on a bench in a park he lay curled.
Weakened by hunger, for work too old ;
Numberless nights in the open and cold.
Stooped not to begging, too honest to
steal,
Given no chance to work for a meal.
Shivering, coughing, he drew his coat
tighter.
Hopelessly calling out, “God help a
poor blighter.”
Dawn saw a constable poke at his feet,
But the tramp felt neither jab nor the
sun’s early heat ;
For a compassionate God, at the pitiful
cry,
Had allowed the old man to quietly die.
. ...K.McA.: Not quite; but those
love-poems are promising....
G.C.K.: The first thing to be noted
2bout “Atomic Age Sonnet Series
No. 1” is that they're not sonnets.
For the rest, they’re peculiar....
Jenny: If you’re young “Fishy
Business” does you credit; if not,
it’s a bit fishy... .S.C.: “A friend
informed me that you accept
poetry.” Yes. but not the kind that
says “Even noises nocturnal to my
hearing have harkened”... .Joe :
No, Joe... .J.8.T.: They show no
sign of technical effort... .M.W.:
Shattered fragments... .A.P.: You
seem to be trying hard to say some-
thing; but whatever it is remains
thin and elusive... .Ho Bo: Ho
yourself... .8.C.: Except for
children they’re still too jingly....
M.S.: Just nice little poems....
G.L.F.: Leave that theme to
Matthew A r n o 1 d... .G.L.G.:
You’re in trouble with that “dottle
from the pipe of Europe.”


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE MIDDLE EAST
/'AF all aspects of the Suez
story the most dismal has
probably been the division of
opinion in Britain, not only
between the Government and
Opposition but among the
followers of the Government
itself.
Even at this late stage, Lord
Salisbury’s first public pro-
nouncement since he resigned
from the Macmillan Govern-
ment over the release of Arch-
bishop Makarios has served
only to accentuate the dis-
unity. Salisbury spoke strongly
against any acceptance. of
Nasser’s terms for using the
Suez Canal and, supporting his
advocacy of a “resolute effort
to rally the principal canal-
using nations,” London “Daily
Express” comments that “by
standing firm together Britain
and the other maritime
countries will be in a much
stronger position to negotiate
a favorable settlement”:
“The policy put forward by
Lord Salisbury deserves the
widest attention among the
people. He should press it
with all the authority he
commands. For it is a policy
of courage and common
sense.”
On the other hand, London
“Daily Mail,” taking what it
calls the “realistic” view,
c'aims that “all that has
happened since the canal was
seized last July has left Nasser
holding most of the aces. The
West is striving for some
formula which will make it
seem that this is not so. It is
for this that British ships have
to go round the Cape and
British transport is handicapped
by the petrol ration. It is not
worth it.
“Nor is this typical of
British diplomacy, which has
nearly always accepted the
inevitable while biding its
time. This was the way of
the great Cecil in the days of
Elizabeth I.
“Nasser is (for the time
being) in a better bargaining
position than the U.N., the
U.S., and users of the canal.
Nobody can do anything about
it short of war.
“The harsh truth is that
there is only one Suez Canal,
and Nasser is the man in posses-
sion. This is why he can say
‘Take it or leave it.’ ”
London “New Statesman”
adds to the “Daily Mail” view
the opinion that “Britain can,
of course, continue her
unilateral boycott. But for
every £1 this costs the Egyptian
Treasury, British interests—and
ultimately the British con-
sumer —loses £lO.
“The past nine months
should have convinced even the
most optimistic Tory that
Nasser cannot be overthrown
by financial pressure, and that
if we choose to indulge in this
kind of guerrilla warfare, the
British economy is likely to
be the main casualty.”
Apart from editorial
comment, two other writers —
Marguerite Higgins, in New
York “Herald Tribune,” and
“M anchester Guardian’s”
Middle East correspondent—
are not notably optimistic
about bringing Nasser to terms.
Miss Higgins suggests that,
even if Mr. Dulles were “an
international magician,” he
could not come up with a
fully satisfactory Suez settle-
ment because “there just isn’t
one as far as our (America’s)
principal Allies are concerned.”
A satisfactory agreement, Miss
Higgins notes, requires trust
and confidence, two things
likely to be missing from any
agreement to which Nasser is
a party. It is, she adds, im-
possible—short of war —to
reimpose foreign international
control of the canal, and, faced
with that fact, Mr. Dulles “has
taken the only possible
course”:
“This is to find the best
possible face-saving way out of
a basically unsatisfactory
situation.”
Except for the evident inten-
tion of barring Israeli shipping
from the canal, Miss Higgins
continues, Nasser’s terms on the
canal might “not be too bad”
if they had come from some-
one in whom the West had con-
fidence. This is particularly so
since Nasser had the advantage
of knowing that economic
reasons would compel the bulk
of world shipping to use the
canal ; that Britain and France
had decided against a boycott
on similar economic grounds ;
and that he had the assurance
that India, Indonesia and
Greece would support Egypt’s
proposed arrangements.
—New York "Herald Tribune"
SKID ROW.
On the other hand, Mr.
Dulles’s strong argumentsr—
“where, except in the West,
can Egypt obtain the huge
sums necessary to widen,
deepen and modernise the
canal to the enormous extent
made necessary by the fact
that oil-volume is about to in-
crease sixfold in as many
years?” would seem to
depend on Egypt’s maintaining
some sort of balance in its
relations with Russia and
the U.S.
In this regard, Miss Higgins
points out that “although
President Nasser has been
protesting his neutrality with
an increasing air of injured
innocence, it is certain that
in the last few weeks the [U.S.]
State Department has leaned
closer than ever before to the
theory that Nasser is at the
point of no-return with the
Kremlin and is rapidly in the
process of becoming a cat’s-
paw.”
The “Manchester Guardian”
correspondent recalls that even
before the British and French
landings in Egypt it was pro-
phesied that economic pressure
would bring Egypt to heel ;
then, after the withdrawal, it
was asserted that “within three
to six weeks Nasser would
have to cry quits for lack of
oil, wheat, spare parts, foreign
exchange” ; and now Western
(i.e., American) policy “is
evidently based on the same
prognostication, discredited
though it may now be to any-
one with an open mind to
Middle Eastern realities.”
As to the chance of an
economic collapse in Egypt,
the same writer puts two facts:
“The first is that beyond a
certain point the •Egyptian
economy is virtually indestruc-
tible. The second is that when-
ever a particular shortage has
become acute during the past
six months the Russians have
come to Egypt’s assistance with
supplies of oil or wheat (Egypt’s
two weakest points), or by
buying Egyptian cotton, and
that they will almost certainly
continue to do so as long as
Nasser maintains his defiance
of the West.
“With injections such as
these the Egyptian economy
can keep going indefinitely,
since 75 to 80 per cent, of the
population are content to live,
as they have always lived (and
as President Nasser himself has
remarked), just above the
starvation - level, producing
nearly all that they and their
town cousins need out of the
unfailingly fertile Nile Valley.”
Since “there seems little
reason to expect that a new
revolutionary movement will


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sut scription Dept.,
Tine Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire £2 15'« Foreign .... £3/«/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z. >
—London “Daily Express”
“ STUPENDOUS, MR. SANDYS! BUT IF ONLY WE HAD
SOMETHING TO DETER COLONEL NASSER!”
overthrow Nasser’s regime, and
still less to expect that economic
paralysis will bring him to his
knees,” Britain and the United
States will, if they are to devise
a workable Middle East policy,
“have to take the Middle East
as 'it is and not as we might
like it to be”:
“That means accepting
Nasser as one element, and
locally the most important
element, in the pattern. It
does' not mean giving way to
him —but it surely does mean
abandoning a position which
never looked tenable six months
ago, and which the events of
last November proved us
unable to maintain.”
Alliances
“American foreign policy is
too rigid. You struggle to
prevent historically inevitable
changes. You seek to encircle
us [Russia] with a holy alliance
intended to preserve regimes
already demonstrably out-
moded merely to .check
Communism’s spread.”
, Quoting the foregoing
comment by “a well-placed
Soviet Communist,” “New
York Times” writer C. L. Sulz-
berger concedes “there is a
kernel of truth in it”:
“Our [America’s] network of
military pacts some multi-
lateral like Nato and Seato,
some bilateral like base-
arrangements with Saudi Arabia
or Spain—often strengthens
Governmental systems we
ourselves find distasteful.
Few would argue that
Jeffersonian principles are
advanced b y bolstering
Franco's despotism, the dicta-
torships of Chiang Kai-shek
and Syngman Rhee, or King
Saud’s slave-owning abso-
lutism.”
Embarrassing as it may be
for “doctrinal purists,” Sulz-
berger adds, “Washington
links itself with other capitals
on the basis of strategic con-
venience rather than political
preference” and, “as history
has proven, it is the only logical
basis for an alliance”:
“America’s defensive scheme
includes several partners evi-
dently not of our ideological
choice. But we appear to have
learned from Richelieu, a great
statesman, who taught fin the
words of Sir Harold Nicol-
son):
“ ‘That the interest of the
State was primary and eternal;
that it was above sentimental,
ideological or doctrinal pre-
judices and affections. If
national interest demanded an
alliance with an obnoxious,
even with a heretic, State, then
no feelings should be permitted
to blur that necessity. In
moments of danger one should
choose one’s allies, not for
their intergrity or charm, but
for their physical or even
geographical value.’ ”
British Defence
Further press-comment on
Britain’s change-over from con-
ventional defence to concentra-
tion on guided-missiles and
atomic and nuclear weapons:
Walter Lippmann in New
York “Herald Tribune” :
“There is the blunt [British]
statement ‘that there is at
present no means of providing
adequate protection for the
peopie of this country [Britain]
against the consequences of an
attack with nuclear weapons,’
and that therefore ‘the over-
riding consideration in all
military planning must be to
prevent war rather than to
prepare for it.’
“That is a very big thing for
the British Government to say.
The practical military con-
clusion they draw from it is
that Britain must have some
deterrent nuclear power of her
own if she is not to remain
wholly dependent upon the
United States. But what the
British are saying will be read
in countries which are no less
defenceless and yet quite
incapable of acquiring any
deterrent nuclear power of
their own.”
* * *
Sir, Roy Fedden in a letter
to London “Daily Telegraph ” :
“The urgent necessity of
correctly orientating our
[Britain’s] air-power in relation
to the country’s economy and
overall defence responsibilities
is appreciated, but this does not
justify our rushing into hypo-
thetical financial cuts, or
gambling on a precipitous
change-over to missiles just
because of their ultimate
superiority for purely military
purposes.
“It is pointed out that
changes in defence policy are
wasteful and disturbing. No
attempt, however, is made to
outline the remedies to
eliminate the criminal waste of
technical manpower which,
during the last 10 years, has
resulted from taking-on far too
many new types at one time,
or to deal with the disturbing
anomalies brought out in the
recent report of the Parlia-
mentary Select Committee on
Estimates.
“The glib change-over to
guided-missiles is too illusory,
and savors of a quick sum-up
of the huge number of Her-
culean tasks which to-day go
to make up the American air-
defence programme, by some-
one with a purely scientific
rather than a practical
engineering approach.
“The evolution of a single
practical missile-system is a
terrific undertaking. Anyone
having a faint conception of


the enormous effort America
has put into guided-missiles
during the last 10 years as
compared with our own, and.
at the same time realising they
are pinning their faith on
piloted planes as their first
line of defence for some years
to come, cannot but come to
the conclusion that the pro-
nouncements in the White
Paper are superficial. In the
missile field there is at present
a natural tendency to accord
too much optimism to the
success of a few hundred flights,
and too little concern to the
failures which have so far
occurred. How long this state
of affairs is going to last it is
impossible to say.
“By continued and un-
relenting emphasis on
good detail design and built-
in reliability, eventually
thoroughly practical guided-
missile systems will come out
in the wash, but until then we
dare not rely wholly on them.
“There should be one more
supersonic fighter and bomber
to bridge the gap. The idea of
not continuing with a super-
sonic bomber and all the
research which it would entail
automatically cuts Britain out
of producing a successful
supersonic airliner, the day of
which is bound to come.
“The views on cutting down
research display a grave error
of judgment. The last 10 years
have sjiown that we have
suffered in the air from too
little research, not from poor
design conceptions. If the
proposals were to come into
force, then it would probably
mean the finish of future
British long-term aircraft or
missile development.”
* * *
Stephen King-Hall in a letter
to “Manchester Guardian”:
“The basis of our [Britain’s]
strategy in regard to global
war seems to be what is called
the deterrent.
“There does not appear to
have been much discussion
about what this amounts to.
Am I wrong in supposing that
to most people it means some-
thing like this: ‘We have said
to the Russians: If you attack
us with nuclear weapons (H-
-bombs) against which it is
impossible to defend the
United Kingdom, you may be
assured that within a few hours
of the obliteration of the
United Kingdom, the Soviet
Union will suffer a like fate.’
“Is this threat founded on
fact? If the threat is to make
sense, does it not postulate that
the target - vulnerability to
nuclear attack as between the
United Kingdom and United
States and the Soviet Union is
1 to 1. Is it?
“Would an all-out nuclear
counter-attack on the Soviet
Union produce total destruc-
tion? Or is the true position
that we are saying to the
Soviet Union, ‘You can kill me
stone dead but only at the cost
of having both your legs
broken as I expire.’ If that is a
fair picture, is not our deterrent
a broken-backed affair? If A
VICKY, IN LONDON “DAILY MIRROR”
can kill B, but B as he dies
can only cripple A severely,
may not A say, ‘I may be
crippled but as B will be dead
that will be the end of him and
I can recover at my leisure and
inherit the earth.’ ”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian”
editorial comment: “Depen-
dence on the ultimate deterrent
is to-day inevitable. If Labor
thinks that the Government has
gone too far towards it, let
it consider the alternative.
Either we should have to build
up conventional forces on a
massive scale which is
impracticable and would cause
nothing but joy in Moscow —
or we should have to adopt a
fully pacifist policy.
“So long as international
disarmament cannot be agreed
and so long as Russia con-
tinues to equip itself rapidly
with the latest weapons, the
American or Anglo-American
deterrent force must be our
main security. It remains effec-
tive whether or not retaliation
is likely to be on a one-to-one
ratio.
“The cost to Russia of any
move which brought hydro-
gen-bombing on its cities
would be so crippling that it
could not be risked.
“Even if Russia gains a lead
in weapons technique, the
deterrent will continue to be
effective until Russia has the
capacity to knock-out nearly
all the main bases for retalia-
tion simultaneously and by
surprise. That would require
weapons with the power and
numbers to reach —all at once
—places as far dispersed as
Greenland, Texas, England,
North Africa, Cyprus,
Okinawa and Japan.”
Singapore
Edinburgh “Scotsman”
comment on “a rather curious
set-up” provided in Singa-
pore’s new Constitution:
“Whereas in other territories
which have achieved home
rule the Governor is the
Queen’s representative and
may possess emergency-
powers, in Singapore the
Queen’s representative or Head
of State will be Malayan-born,
and will not have such powers.
“The office of Governor
will be abolished, but the U.K.
Commisioner will be em-
powered to proclaim an emer-
gency. The reserve-powers are
the corollary of the British
rights to the bases and installa-
tions. So far as these are con-
cerned, Singapore's chief worry
at the moment is the reduc-
tion in employment as a result
of British defence cuts.
“No provision appears to
have been made so far for the
future revision of the Consti-
tution and further steps to
independence. In fact, these
depend on Malaya more than
o n Britain o r Singapore.
Singapore can only be viable
in future as a part of the
Federation, whose Malay
leaders remain profoundly
suspicious of the Singapore
Chinese.
“It is a hopeful sign, how-
ever, that the Federation has
agreed to have a representa-
tive on the internal security
council in Singapore, and the
chances of Malaya accepting
Singapore in the Federation
should improve as time goes
on.”
Hungarian Exodus
Of the 192,000 Hungarians
who fled into Austria and
Yugoslavia about 120,000 have
been resettled in other
countries. In Milwaukee
(U.S.A.) “Journal” break-up
of the figures they have gone
to: “United States, 31,500;
Great Britain, 18,115; Canada,
13,505; Switzerland, 10,325;
West Germany, 11,560;
France, 8878; Sweden, 4031;
Italy, 3807; Australia, 3426;
Belgium, 3149; Netherlands,
2958; Israel, 1581; Denmark,
1105; South Africa, 1024;
Norway, 1011.”
Commonwealth
Conference
Commenting on the forth-
coming Commonwealth con-
ference London “Financial
Times” notes editorially that
“there is always the danger of
an erosion of the strongest
traditional and economic ties,
particularly in a Common-
wealth which can unfortunately
no longer be defined in terms of
specific loyalty to the Crown.
“The point at which the force
of more effective co-operation
can be introduced is also the
point at which there has been
least success in the post-war
development. That is in
economic co-operation.
“Largely for reasons of
national consciousness the
Commonwealth countries have
been reluctant to recognise the
need for an organisation for
Commonwealth economic co-
operation, similar in function
to the O.E.E.C. [Organisation
for European Economic Co-
operation], The result has been
that imperial trade, which can
largely be complementary, has
languished relative to intra-
European trade, which must
largely be competitive.
“It is a lamentable truth that
there is much less information
available in London on Com-
monwealth economic condi-
tions than there is on European


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FiRE
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
economic conditions. It is also
true that the record of trade-
liberalisation inside Europe
since 1947 has been paralleled
by a record of comparative
restrictionism inside the Com-
monwealth. Inevitably—though
not only for these reasons—
Europe has enjoyed the greater
economic expansion.
“Many problems would
remain whatever policies were
now adopted. Yet_ there can
be little doubt that the first
need is an organisational one.
The Commonwealth countries
should establish a secretariat
on O.E.E.C. lines, with no
question of the abrogation of
individual sovereignty. The
secretariat could be controlled
by a permanent executive of
the nominees of the various
Governments. The executive
might well meet in some place
other than London, if that
would help to overcome fears
of excessive U.K. supremacy.
“The functions of the
secretariat should be the collec-
tion and dissemination of
knowledge. The broad policy
—London “Daily Mail”
“GLUBB-GLUBB—GLUBB”
of the organisation should be
to maximise imperial trade
and investment by co-operative
measures.
“These are the terms in
which such a scheme could be
conceived.' Three points can
perhaps be made about it:
“The first is that it would
help to keep an effective co-
operative Commonwealth, as
the British leadership becomes
inevitably less pronounced. The
second is that it would provide
a basis for expanding imperial
trade complementary to the
expansion of European trade
which can be hoped for from
the European Free Trade Area.
The third point is that with-
out such an organisation none
of the countries which depend
on sterling will be able to make
their own investment-plans
effective.
“Sterling can bear a calcu-
lated investment strain, but
cannot necessarily stand an
uncoordinated one. Satisfac-
tory economic co-operation
cannot exist without an ade-
quate organisation; if this
conference established such an
organisation it could mark a
great advance in Common-
wealth trade and economic
policy.”
Wool and Synthetics
Bradford “Wool Record”
comment on “the march of
man-made, fibres”:
“There are still people in
the wool industry who talk
happily of the partnership of
the natural and synthetic fibres
and of a future which will see
s. closer and more mutually
beneficial union between the
two groups. One wonders what
sort of crystal ball these people
gaze into. We prefer to
ponder on such tangible clues
as the projected expansion of
c h e m i c a 1-fibre manufacture
throughout the world.
“Recently, for example, a
commission appointed by
President Eisenhower to
investigate the future resources
of the United States predicted
that output of chemical fibres
would rise from the present
level of about 500-million
pounds a year to some 975-
million pounds by 1960 and
4000-million pounds by 1975.
The last figure compares with
a world wool-clip yielding
about 2800-million pounds,
clean, at the present time.
“Thus, according to these
estimates, in the United States
alone production of the syn-
thetics will in the next 10
years or so outstrip world pro-
duction of wool. The acrylics,
such as acrilan and orlon, are
expected to forge ahead even
more than nylon and terylene,
and this forecast is endorsed by
the announcement that the
Chemstrand Corporation is to
increase the capacity of its
acrilan plant from 30- to 45-
million pounds a year. The
same company is building a
plant in Northern Ireland to
turn out 10-million -pounds of
acrilan annually.
“What impact will this
tremendous growth in the
chemical fibres have on wool
and cotton and, perhaps, on
viscose and acetate rayon as
well? The optimists believe
that between now and 1975
demand for textiles will expand
sufficiently to keep all available
fibres fully employed. That
is a comforting theory—but,
unfortunately, it is at variance
with current trends.”
The Gulf of Akoba
Saudi Arabia’s claim to the
Gulf of Akaba' as Arab
territorial waters, and its
resistance to “any attempt to
give the gulf an international
character,” fails —in the New
York “Herald Tribune” view
—to recognise “that there are
four littoral States on the gulf ;
that the actual control of its
waters was in Egyptian, not
Saudi Arabian, hands until the
Israeli attack, and that of the
two ports on the gulf, one,
Elath, is Israeli, and the other,
Akaba, is Jordanian.
“By every test that can be
applied, with the dubious,
exception of width of entrance,
the Gulf of Akaba is an inter-
national waterway. Saudi
Arabia has virtually
recognised it as such in respect
to its Arab neighbors ; it only
would sustain its exclusive
rights to the gulf at Israel’s
expense.
“The assumption must be
that Israel’s need for transit
through the Gulf of Akaba is
the real reason for Arab
opposition. But the principal
maritime States are agreed on
the international character of
the gulf and the United States
has dramatised its stand by
sending a tanker into Elath.
By international law and inter-
national morality, freedom of
innocent passage through the
gulf is the only possible
solution.”
To which the “New York
Times” adds that the present
Saudi Arabian notification is
in equally sharp conflict with
a decree issued on May 28,
1949, by the present King
Saud’s father. This decree
stated, ‘in reliance on God
Almighty,’ that while the
territorial waters of Saudi
Arabia, which comprehend
part of the Strait of Tiran, are
under its sovereignty, never-
theless they are also ‘subject
to the provisions of inter-
national law as to the innocent
passage of vessels of other
nations through the coastal
sea.”
Switzerland
Swiss view (from “Journal
de Geneve”) on how the in-
creasing integration of Europe
may affect the country’s tradi-
tional neutrality.
“Sooner or later Switzerland
will have to make a choice in
regard to the formation of
a united Europe. Until now
she has collaborated in every-
thing that was positive, such
as the 0.E.E.C., without
abandoning her traditional
neutral policy. She has thus
been a good European without
sacrificing anything funda-
mental.
“But if this evolution should
become more precise, if the
construction of a united
Europe, which is today loose
and spread out into numerous
parallel organisations, should
be organised in a more rigorous
fashion Switzerland *vill either
have to make essential conces-
sions or accept isolation and
atrophy.
“The hour of decisive choice
has not yet come but it is
slowly coming near.’*


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Home to Roost
The Victorian Egg Board,
like other State egg-marketing
authorities, has been running
around like a very wet hen, the
slump in the export-market for
eggs having descended upon
it with devastating effect.
There has been frantic talk
of dumping surplus eggs in the
sea; despondent talk of the
whole egg-producing - industry
collapsing “if the Government
did not act within a month” ;
faintly hopeful talk of finding
other export-markets; opti-
mistic talk of “guarantees to
producers” ; prophetically dis-
mal talk of Australia being
short of eggs and having to
import them in years to come if
the industry were not
“stabilised” —by subsidies at
the consumers’ expense, of
course.
And in all this talk there has
been a note of incredulity that
this state of affairs should have
arisen to confound the best-
laid schemes of mice and men
—i.e., the board’s orderly
marketing policies.
The Victorian Egg Board’s
chickens have certainly come
home to roost. The United
Kingdom, Victoria’s principal
export-market for eggs, has
been consistently encouraging
home production of eggs for
years. This year alone, it is
expected to spend £35 million
in subsidies to British pro-
ducers. The result has been to
make the United Kingdom
almost self-sufficient in eggs,
and to cause Australian eggs
to be sold overseas at give-
away prices.
The writing was plainly on
the wall, but the Victorian Egg
Board ignored it. The board’s
report for 1955-56, published
towards the end of last year,
dismissed as “humbug” and
“sheer nonsense” suggestions
that eggs, instead of being
exported at a loss, should be
placed on the local market at
reduced prices or cool-stored
to meet winter shortages. “All
the evidence,” the report stated
blandly, “indicates the wisdom
(sic) of spending money to
encourage English housewives
to use Australian eggs”—this
despite the facts that the board
had lost £4065 for the year as
against a profit of £120,311 for
the previous 12 months,
and that income from local
sales had dropped alarmingly
from £226,641 to £121,477!
In spite of these clear warn-
ings the board persisted that
its policy was the right one to
“strengthen the poultryfarming
economy.”
Far from “strengthening” it,
the board’s orderly marketing
in the interest of producers has
got the industry into such a
devil of a mess that it has
enlisted the aid of a firm of
management-consultants to try
to straighten things out. What
they can do remains to be
seen; what they might very
well do is find out why poultry-
farmers, like many others, can’t
get along without a marketing
board 'at all.— Wusslean
(Vic.).
Housing
On a recent tour through
Britain and the Continent I saw
many cities which the war had
reduced to masses of rubble
and debris. In a few places
evidences of the blitz still
remain, but most of these erst-
while heaps of ruins have been
completely reconstructed with
modern buildings, adequate
housing, wide streets, ample
parks and playgrounds—fine
examples of orderly, scientific
town-planning.
Coventry and Rome are
excellent examples of what can
be achieved by progressive,
energetic communities. The
authorities in Rome have
excelled in methodical plan-
ning, effectively conceived and
fully implemented. The
modern, substantial buildings
are well designed, practical and
aesthetically pleasing.
Economists, politicians and
union officials have grappled
with housing-problems in Aus-
tralia, and the futility of their
combined efforts only
emphasises their confused
thinking and incompetence. We
are told that credit-restrictions
and inability to obtain finance
are hamstringing their efforts.
If so, why do we see huge,
costly business-premises spring-
ing up throughout the various
cities and their suburbs?
I have been actively associ-
ated with building for over 60
years, and know of its many
distressing frustrations, but
statistics of production in past
years when workers usually
worked, skilfully and
methodically, would, if pub-
lished, be vehemently contested
by organised labor. Indiffer-
ence, loafing, restriction of out-
put, shorter hours and many
holidays are the major con-
tributing factors to high costs.
Increased efficiency is the only
'means by which the workers’
conditions can be effectively
improved.
Builders and other indus-
trialists and their executives
have also succumbed to mental
and physical lassitude. It is
“For the last time , I tell you, they didn't HAVE
any plain ones!"
a seller’s market and every-
thing is easy, so the bosses can
enjoy golf, fishing or other
recreation. No longer is “the
chief” the first man on the
job and the last to leave. While
mechanisation and labor-saving
devices are regarded as a
pretext for shorter hours and
slackening effort, production
must inevitably lag behind
demand.
Unless executives, financiers
and union officials realise that
they cannot for ever pass on the
cost we will remain in an indus-
trial and economic swamp. All
is not well in a community
where thousands are practically
homeless.
Immigration accentuates the
housing -problem. If the
authorities would insist that a
preponderance of new arrivals
were skilled building-workers
this would ameliorate the
housing-shortage. This policy
could also be the means of
achieving virile, efficient com-
petition from people who are
not afflicted with the prevailing
inertia but are accustomed to
getting things done. — Ajax
(N.S.W.).
Australian Workers
“Kayell” (B. 10/4/’57) sends
one searching for the origin
of the idea that the Australian
worker is lazy, incompetent, etc.
Two possibilities occur to me.
First, the cartoonists usually
depict our workers as leaning
against a post in an indolent
attitude or some similar
posture. Has anyone ever seen
a drawing showing the Aus-
tralian worker really doing the
job? This approach is bad
publicity and has a harmful
effect on the morale of the
worker.
Second, Government and
semi - government employees
are, sadly, somewhat notorious
for go-slow methods. This
section has created an unsatis-
factory impression of workers
in general.
Under the direction of the
sound private employer our
workers are, in the main, first-
class and take a pride in a good
day’s work well done
particularly when they know
that their particular organisa-
tion is well managed.
As a bank-manager my con-
tacts are mainly among em-
ployers, and they often
comment that Australian
tradesmen show more initiative,
adaptability and enterprise than
their opposite-numbers from
overseas.
Efficiency in planning and
management will always im-
prove staff and make them
feel that they are part of a


worth-while enterprise. I am
convinced, from a fairly
intirpate survey of industry,
that we have as much to fear
from poor management • as
we have from indifferent
employees. —C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
I served five years’
apprenticeship as a joiner,
plus three nights a week at
tech, for three years, to make
myself proficient at the trade,
and I found that the average
young chap took his trade
seriously and willingly attended
night-classes.
Few tradesmen appreciate
sloppy workmanship, and
much of the poor-quality work
found in the building-trade can
be traced to “wood-butchers”
who, with little or no training,
buy themselves a few tools and
class themselves as tradesmen.
They move from job to job,
gathering a little bit of know-
ledge here and there, but never
get beyond the handyman-class.
A point to be remembered
by critics of Australian workers
is that the quality of the manu-
factured product is usually
dictated by the employer. If
profits are the only yardstick,
then quality and durability are
of secondary consideration.
“Kayell’s” remarks about
poor handling and inefficient
top-management have to be
seen in operation to be appre-
ciated. I worked as a joiner
with a timber-firm. The timber
stocks were well organised ; the
ordering of the . necessary
material and the setting-out of
each job for the machines were
excellent; the machine-shop
was well laid-out and the
machining of the timber left
little room for improvement.
The machined timber for the
various jobs was transferred to
racks in the joinery department,,
where the whole efficiency of
the business was undermined
by an incompetent manager
who was retained despite com-
plaints by customers and
employees alike.
Partly completed work was
always standing around and
frequently damaged, the stock
phrase of the manager being,
“Leave that and get on with
this, it’s wanted in a hurry.”
I have had as many as six
partly completed jobs around
my bench until they were
wanted in a hurry and then
it was, “Slap them together,
don’t be too fussy.” Some of
the completed work delivered
to customers made me wonder
how Ihe firm stayed in business.
The old adage about going
“to work to earn money to
buy food to make strength to
go to work, etc.,” possibly does
apply to some people, but the
average tradesman 'derives a
deep sense of satisfaction from
a job well done.—C. B. (Q.).
Long-service Leave
Where did “Doynest” get the
idea that “long-service leave,
which merely rewards the lazy
and the stick-in-the-mud, has
“That’s right! Put some zip into that
upward arm-swing!”
little or nothing to commend
it” (B. 10/4/’57)?
In a few years I hope to draw
long-service-leave pay after 47
years’ service with the same
organisation. I do not regard
myself as lazy or a stick-in-the-.
mud. I have worked hundreds
of hours without added pay,
initiated ideas, trained staff,
cared for my employer’s
property and effects and
endeavored to advance his
interests wherever possible,
often at my own expense.
Many of my fellow-
employees have done likewise.
Such men are the lifeblood of
any well-established business —
“the enterprising fellow who
moves from <sne firm to
another” usually ends up no-
where. There rriay be excep-
tions but not many.
Long-service leave is a
reward "for service; super-
annuation is another matter
altogether.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
.Had long-service leave been
introduced years ago the
inflationary spiral would have
had a much earlier check.
Does “Doynest” remember
the advertisements during the
last decade —“We pay more
than award-rates,” or “We
guarantee unlimited overtime”
—with one employer enticing
the others’ workmen with the
lure of £lO a week false wages?
We are still paying for
encouraging a floating labor-
force, yet that economic
damage could have been
avoided if the same employers
had offered a mere £lO a year
(the annual reserve needed to
be set aside for three months’
long-service leave after 20
years on the basis of an £BOO
average annual salary).
“Doynest’s” “enterprising
chap who moves from one
firm to another to improve
himself” had both Labor and
Liberal Governments very
worried. The same fellow had
no real attachment to his
employer other than as a
highest bidder for renegade
labor, and would promptly
leave when the bid was raised
by a competitor.
The “lazy stick-in-the-mud”
whom “Doynest” wrongly
condemns were the ones who
saved industry from complete
chaos. These men preferred
security to false money. Their
employers were in the happy
position of budgeting for con-
sistent award-wages, both boss
and worker being farsighted
enough to understand that
loyalty to each was sound
both economically and morally.
Except with a minority of
specialists and administrators
it is extremely doubtful that
changing one’s job “gains wider
experience.” Modern industrial
methods provide little scope
for individual craftsmanship
to the average worker
although most progressive
firms are not tardy in reward-
ing a good production sugges-
tion.
The trend now is for strong
employer-employee relations
and such can only be built up
by a long-standing associa-
tion between both parties. A
survey of successful industries
shows that, in conjunction with
good management, the basis of
their progress is a solid team
of long - service faithful
employees.
Long-service leave should
not have originated from trade-
union agitation ; it should have
been the policy of responsible
government. — Noah (Vic.).
Darwin to Japan
It was reported that the
Prime Minister and his party,
on their way to a round of
visits in Asia, spent a few
hours touring round Darwin at
night to see how much that
outpost has grown in recent
years. The next day Mr.
Menzies reached Tokyo.
The two news-items were
thought-provoking when it’s
remembered that Darwin
suffered far more than any
other spot on the Australian
mainland from the attentions
of the Nip bombers after the
first disastrous raids on
February 19, 1942. A couple
of years ago the Minister for
Territories, Paul Hasluck,
opening the Legislative Council
chambers in Darwin, remarked
that in a strict military sense,
in spite of some individual acts
of heroism, the bombing of
Darwin was not an anniversary
of national glory, “but one of
national shame.” He men-
tioned that the lack of warning
of the first attack was a sorry
story, that failure to handle
war-cargoes in the preceding
months had left the harbor
dangerously congested, and
that after the raids there had
been a panic evacuation. On
that day, he said, Australians
had run away because they did
not know what else to do.
Hasluck rightly blamed the
then Curtin Government for
the foolish state of mind it
had induced by talk of evacua-
tion, “scorched earth,” and so
forth. If the people in Dar-
win had worked harder in the


months immediately before the
first raids, he said, the story
might have been otherwise. He
admitted that the comparative
defencelessness of the town
was not due solely to failure by
the Labor Government, but was
a reflection of the defenceless-
ness of the whole nation —for
more than 20 years political
parties had argued against each
other as to whether any defence
at all was necessary, and every
prospect for defence had been
opposed. He added that the
exceptional steps taken by the
Curtin Government to hide the
real news of the disaster from
the Australian people for long
after the necessity for military
secrecy had passed were due
to the fact that the Govern-
ment doubted that the Aus-
tralian people could stand up to
bad news, and Ministers were
themselves fearful of what was
about to happen.
There is no doubt that the
personal morale of many of
the Labor Ministers of the
time was low, and that it
remained low. It would be
interesting to learn how the
present-day Labor ranks in
Canberra, including several of
those who were in the Curtin
Cabinet, would react to some
of our new and greater dangers
today if they unhappily
regained office. Their present
policy, of course, is for some
kind of emasculated defence,
based on Darwin and other
points inside Australia, rather
than for setting our outlying
guards as far as possible out-
side the country to secure the
maximum protection possible
for all Australians, including
those in Darwin.
Mr. Menzies may have
thought of these things as he
toured Darwin, just as he may
have recalled in Japan that the
Japanese originally talked of
a “hundred-year war” and that
some elements in Nippon today
are trying to revive- Emperor-
worship and the old militaristic
glories. His main task in Aus-
tralia is surely to ensure that
nowadays Australians both
know what to do, and that they
do it.— Ex-Act (N.S.W.).
TV
After four months of TV-
viewing I realise that, for my
£230, I get:
Films which I saw 20-30
years ago.
The visual as well as audible
fatuity of quiz-programmes.
A problem in convincing my
two small boys that either they
should not watch TV, or, if
they do, that they should not
emulate the “bash-and-kick”
activities portrayed nightly for
their edification.
I assume that Rin Tin Tin,
Hopalong Cassidy, Texas
Ranger, and Jungle Jim are
juvenile programmes, although
in intellectual content they are
probably equal to 80 per cent,
of the remaining programmes.
It is estimated that there are
20,000 sets in Melbourne
homes, and another 100,000
in dealers’ showrooms. The
sponsors won’t pay for such
a small viewing public, and the
“Then I said to myself—never too crowded to find a
table for Mr. Knuckleheimer.”
public won’t buy sets to view
the appalling trash now
screened. — Emptor (Vic.).
Wellings
Morton Herman’s The
A rchitecture of Victorian
Sydney (reviewed B. 27/3/’57)
is a well-balanced survey of
Sydney building in the second-
half of last century, but there
are some; notable omissions.
Even though Herman points
out that exigencies of space and
the wealth of material forced
him to exclude many interest-
ing examples, surely space
should have been found for a
plate of Wellings, Woodside-
avenue, Burwood.
Wellings is not only one of
the most notable Gothic
Revival houses in Sydney ; it is
also a very fine specimen of the
weatherboard house; Only one
example of this medium is illus-
trated in the book (Wandella,
Woolwich) though many
weatherboard homes, large and
small, were erected in or about
Sydney in the 19th century.
Wellings has a long front,
with a gabled bay at each end,
and a central veranda. -It is
single-storied, but with a high
roof still carrying the original
shingles and attic bedrooms.
The main gable is two-storied.
Fronting its upper room is an
open balcony with an elabor-
ately carved wooden
balustrade.
Another notable omission
from Herman’s book is the
Newtown courthouse, with its
impressive Greek Revival
entrance. — Cunedda (N.S.W.).
Paperbacks
As an admitted “eccentric
bibliophile,” “Bagot’s” condem-
nation of paperbacks (B.
10/4/’57) is probably worth
less than the volumes he
summarily dismisses.
What, after all, gives value to
a book? Certainly durable
covers, handsome binding, fine
reproduction and tasteful type-
ography are to be prized. I
can even concede “Bagot” a
book’s smell. But are these
qualities superior to literary
style, subject-matter and treat-
ment, truth, beauty, inspiration
or the infinite variety that the
finest books can offer?
The latter can and are found
between flimsy covers no less
than in boards, and at prices
within the reach of most.
During recent months I have
bought such substantial fare,
all paperbacks, as Anna
Karenina, The Iliad, Dante’s
Inferno, Ballet in America,
Reach for The Sky, A
Biography of Churchill, Greek
Art, Greek Historical Thought,
The Cruel Sea and The World,
of Copernicus.
Any one of these in a
standard edition would have
taxed my pocket. Thanks to
the “flimsies,” their limitations
notwithstanding, I have
increased my purchasing-power
and, therefore, my enjoyment
of reading.— Xavier (Vic.).
Trams and Buses
“Kiwi” (B. 24 /4 / ’57) is
right, but it’s too late now —-
Government transport, whether
bus or tram, is bound for
disaster.
The real decline in city trans-
port started with the advent of
the bus—something new was
more important than modernis-
ing a proved utility—and other
things beside the trams were
overdue for sireamlining.
Administrative staff was out of
proportion to wages-staff;
methods used in dealing with
current problems 'were
obsolete ; record - and -pay
methods were, and a/e,
outdated.
Trams, with their seating-
capacity, should be the main
passenger-carrier. If a single
car could not satisfy passenger-
demand another car was simply
’ coupled-up—the equivalent of
three buses with three men
employed instead of six.
Tramways take up too much
space in Sydney’s narrow
streets, but they are responsible
for the road they use; not so
the bus, so ratepayers do not
benefit by the change. The
trams, made in Australia and
using local fuel, surely have
the advantage there —a major
one in war-time. The tram is
faster than a bus (look up
London’s average speed), its
life is at least 3QO per cent,
greater, and the initial cost
only a little higher.
The bus, of course, has an
important part 'in modern
transport, but to quote the late
chairman of the London
Underground Group, “No
vehicle yet invented or in sight
can compete with the modem
tram for mass-transportation.”
E.K. (N.S.W.).


LOW AND FRANCO
LOW’S treatment of Franco
(B. 13 /3 / ’57) is altogether
too summary—in some respects
it is wrong, while in general it
shows the Leftist trend.
He errs right from the jump.
By 1936 Franco was no
longer “military commander
in Spanish Morocco.” He was
in virtual exile in the Canary
Islands. He was carried
thence to Morocco on July 19,
1936, in an English-owned
plane and acclaimed leader by
all the Spanish forces in
Morocco. These included
Foreign Legion and Moors
who were part of the Spanish
Regular Army. Franco was
popular among them because
under a previous Government
he had commanded with dis-
tinction in Morocco. Moreover
it should be clearly understood
that Moors, except in dress,
are indistinguishable from
Spaniards, and that 95 per cent,
of Franco’s forces were from
the Spanish mainland, as
Denzil Batchelor testified early
in 1937.
Just how democratic the
“Government” of 1936 had
been is disputable. It has been
argued that (a) it gained
certain seats by intimidation of
the electorate, ( b ) it repre-
sented a minority of the people
who did vote, and (c)'the Com-
munists were in fact the real
holders of power behind the
scenes. In any case it was
not “the passage of land-
reforms and anti-clerical laws”
which brought on the revolt,
but anarchy. There were
strikes everywhere, political
murders, and a general en-
deavor by Largo Caballero to
play that part of the “Spanish
Lenin” which he conceived
destiny had reserved for him.
Houses, institutions and
churches were burned with the
connivance of the civil authori-
ties, and Zamora, who ought
to know, said that the mob, a
prey to Communist agitators,
having become masters of the
street, had become masters of
the Government, too. Speeches
made by Anthony Eden and
Churchill in the House of
Commons at the time bear this
out. Churchill deemed that in
the anarchy the Government
had “forfeited its title-deeds of
legality” and represented a
poor minority, while Eden
(29/10/’36) said very accur-
ately:—-
For some months previous to the
rebellion, Spain was profoundly
unsettled. The writ of the
Government did not run unchal-
lenged. There were many instances
of lawlessness, and these included
not only strikes but a succession
of political assassinations. Ho
political party and no section of the
Spanish people were spared from
these tragic happenings. They
culminated on July 13 in the
murder of Senor Calvo Sotelo, a
former Spanish Finance Minister
and a well-known political
character.
Sotelo was, in fact, the leader
of the Parliamentary Opposi-
tion, and was “bumped-off” in
blatant fashion by Government
police for a particular trench-
ant criticism of the prevailing
anarchy. His murder touched-
off the Civil War, yet Low says
nothing of it and its profound
repercussions.
It is, of course, true that
Mussolini first, 1 and later,
Hitler, helped Franco, but the
primary massive intervention
of the war was that of the In-
ternational Brigades (100,000
men) who thwarted Franco’s
drive on Madrid and prevented
an early end of the war. They
were planned, led, and inspired
by Communists though the
rank-and-file comprised many
idealists Low’s “impulsive
youth.” Hamish Fraser and
Qrwell and others have re-
vealed from inside knowledge
the stern realities of the situ-
ation.
Although Axis - helped,
Franco ever showed himself
the Nationalist he said he was,
and preserved Spain’s inde-
pendence and neutrality even
against Hitler when in 1940
his will seemed irresistible.
Those interested should read
the Toynbees’ The War and
the Neutrals (O.U.P. 1956),
which shows Franco in a
favorable light and which goes
some distance to explain why,
near the conclusion of World
War 11, President Roosevelt
thanked Franco for the in-
estimable services his neutrality
had rendered the Allies’ cause.
Finally, it should be re-
membered that if certain
British writers fought against
Franco, the poet Roy Camp-
bell fought for him and has
never ceased to give forth his
views about the Spanish
troubles most vigorously:
“There never was any question
of a hope for Spanish ‘Repub-
licanism.’ All the Spanish Left
leaders were chucked out in
quick succession Azana,
Caballero, Prieto, Durruti and
Nin, each of whom vaguely
represented some Spanish in-
terests —in favor of Russia’s
yes-man, Negrin, who appeared
mysteriously at the top, from
nowhere: as Beirut later
appeared in Poland.”
That is true, and recalls the
fact that over the crucial years
The Bulletin’s attitude was
consistently for Franco when
most Australian papers swal-
lowed the Communist propa-
ganda line, bait, hook and
sinker. — Martin Haley (Q.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 433
Across
I—Sound1 —Sound one to leave a fruit sack and love graphite. (8)
8— Moabite city obtained slang. (5)
9 Leo’s conversation in heaven? (7)
10 —Mary shattered the soldiery. (4)
12— With a foundation as in bed. (5)
13 — A Hew Jersey to duck you in part of France. (5)
14 — The heart of Menotti. (3)
15 — Robbed guttural if given leader-
ship. (6)
16 — Tillers may kiss and this lipstick
and suchlike shows. (4-2)
19 — Oriental city is one I leave in
Essen. (6)
20 — A capital milk-producer of Roy
Rene. (6)
22 — Hint equipment for pool. (3)
23 — If the change is apparent, this is
the chap who gets off with the
change. (5)
24 — A good fellow sat around in
torn satin. (5)
25 Basin delivery. (4)
26 — Upstart turned up about the
confused raven. (7)
27 — Herb gives a kind of relief to
the Italian -sheepskin boy. (5)
28 — East associated with 3.14159 and
the unpleasant curvature of an
organ. (8)
Down
1 — Having no perpendicular marker
to pronounce a benediction upon
fruit. (9)
2 Anxiety showered without check.
(12)
3 Cricket administration bowlers
regarded Bradman’s bat as such.
(5, 2,7)
4 This makes a flimsy material leave
the steamer before the morning
Queen appears at last. (8)
5 A playwright to cook little
fish. (3)
6 Tubby is out under the street. (5)
7 Do not allow Josephine Paterson.
(5)
8— Singer with a stretcher whose
operators look sharp when some
unfortunate’s flat? (9, 5)
11 —Insurers whose correspondence is
inadequate? (12)
17 — Tax for fielding as interceptor of
the square-cut traffic policeman’s
job. (5, 4)
18 — Dope the forte and the piano
work, lose your temper, and
diminish your regard for daddy.
(2, 3,3)
21— Home in Illinois in Virginia. (5)
22 — Societies suit. (5)
25 —Hipped a part. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 432


THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE ATHERTON TABLELAND
HTHE Atherton Tableland has
become the food-bowl of
North Queensland.
The pattern of farming has
completely changed over the
past 25 years. Just back after
a trip there, I find it hard to
believe that such a change could
take place.
When I first knew the
Tableland, the farms were just
being developed. Buildings
were crude, and the roads were
bush-tracks that became a sea
of mud in the wet season. You
can go from Malanda to Millaa
Millaa now in less than half-an-
hour. I remember when it took
me three days.
Now, all-weather roads link
the Tableland towns with one
another, and with the coast.
There would probably be more
bitumen on the roads of the
Tableland than any other
district of comparable size.
The hydroelectric station at
the Barron Falls supplies not
only the towns, but. the farms
as well. The harnessing of the
Tully Falls will give this
Modem methods of
pasture improvement
have been so success-
ful that on some
sheep stations herds
of cattle have been
introduced to keep
pastures under con-
trol and avoid wastage
of feed. This innova-
tion has not only
produced extra in-
come from the cattle
but has actually
increased the sheep
income also because
the quality of the
pasture has been
improved. To main-
tain sheep income at
a high level it is
essential * to protect
lambs against set-back
and disease at mark-
ing and tailing time.
The use of “Elas-
trator” Rubber Rings
for marking and tail-
ing has been found
to give reliable pro-
tection.
country all the electricity it
can use.
But it is in the pattern of
farming that one finds the
greatest change. The Tolga,
Kairi, and Atherton districts,
traditional maize - growing
areas, now depend on several
“Are you the feller lookin' fr a burr-cuttin job?"
crops as well as dairyfarming
to keep the pot boiling.
Maize is grown hand-in-hand
with peanuts, beans, and other
crops. Improved-pastures have
been planted in maize-paddocks
which have been cropped for
years.
The tendency is to turn to
mixed-farming, rather than the
old one-crop system of work-
ing the land.
The nearly completed
Tinaroo Dam will hold as
much water as Sydney Harbor.
It will be used for irrigating
crops ranging from peanuts to
tobacco.
The dam will open-up a
once-useless stretch of country
between Rocky Creek and
Mareeba. Although the soil is
rich, the poor rainfall made
cropping uncertain. A few
cattle and mobs of kangaroos
were the sole tenants.
Farms have been taken-up
all through this country, and
the owners are waiting for the
water to flow. When it does,
it won’t be long before this
area will be as flourishing as
any on the Tableland.
A* Kaban, on the Evelyn or
Upper Tableland, vegetables
have come into their own.
Over 200 acres are planted
every year, and the methods of
cultivation are the latest,
Aerial-dusting keeps the pests
under control, and rapid trans-
port gets the stuff to the coast
in good condition for the
table.
During War 11, over 25,000
troops were stationed on the
Tableland. You can still see
traces of the old camps at
Wongabel, Wondecla and
Tolga. Igloos on showgrounds
and Army trucks on farms
remind One that this was once
a heavily fortified area.
The demand for milk for
the troops has changed the
pattern of dairying in a way
that has to be seen to be
believed.
Milk has completely taken
over from butter. Last year
just on 2\ million gallons of
milk were sold, as compared
with 1400 tons of butter.
Apart from supplying towns
on the Tableland, the milk is
sent to Cairns, Innisfail and
Townsville. This city, over 250
miles from Malanda, gets its
milk supplied daily in gleam-
ing road-tankers which deliver
the milk ice-cold.
There is a modern milk-
factory at Malanda, Cairns,
Innisfail and Townsville. The
latest move is to rail milk in
tankers from Malanda to Mt.
Isa and Mary Kathleen. The
scheme isn’t a wild-cat one,
either. What it will mean to the
women and children living in
these “tinned-milk” towns can
be easily imagined.
The farms have been geared
for this trade. Modern milk-
ing-sheds, many fitted with
electricity, up-to-date equip-
ment and milk-coolers on all
farms, are an indication of
the keen interest, taken by the
dairyman in what has proved to
be the best money-spinner the
Tableland has seep,
To help the farmer with the
hundred and one problems
that crop-up on the land, an
Experimental Station has been
established at Kairi and a
Dairy Laboratory at Malanda.
I don’t know of an area so
well served in this respect as
the Tableland.
The nearest dairying district
of any size is 600 miles away.
To meet the demand for bulls
and heifers to improve the
herds, stud-farms are found all
over the place. The work of
the early pioneers in the stud
game, men like Woolley,
Donaghy, Roseblade and
Sigley, is being carried on by
the sons.
The cattle are not kept
hidden away on the farms,
either. The Malanda and
Millaa Millaa Shows are
famous for their , line-up of
dairy-cattle, and leading judges
from all over Australia have
run their hands over the cattle
at these shows.
The north has always been
noted for its fine cabinet
timbers. .Maple, cedar, silky-oak


GIVE YOUR CHILDREN
HOOFS AND HORNS
for their BIRTHDAY or for CHRISTMAS
It is the Best Gift you can give them
“HOOFS AND HORNS” brings you the
whole horse world every month; complete
coverage of Shows, Polocrosse, Hunting,
Pony Clubs, Polo and Rodeo.
Subscriptions:
Send to:
"HOOFS AND HORNS,”
Box 101, G.P.0., Adelaide, South Australia.
"LONGHORN"
BRAND
SMYMft AUSTRALIA
"LONGHORN
BRAND
The Brand of Quality
Where HORSES and AUSTRALIANS
ge! together
FOR PLEASURE ... FOR WORK...
Show Ring
H unting
Polo
Polocrosse'
Rodeo
With Cattle
With Sheep
On Station
On Farm
In Stockyard
WILLIAMS 1 GEAR WILL BE REPRESENTED
ON THE MAN AND ON THE HORSE
Boots, Saddles, Clothes, Leather, Rope and
Canvas Goods of HIGH QUALITY
made to stand the most exacting tests.
USED BY MEN WHO KNOW QUALITY
Illustrated brochure and self-measurement forms
available from-
R. M. WILLIAMS LTD.
5 Percy Street, Prospect
South Australia
’Phone: ML 1191 Wire: “Longhorn,” Adelaide*
and other species grow in
the dense jungle at the slopes
of the ranges.
The timber-industry is now a
mighty one. The huge tractors
are pushing deeper and deeper
into the ravines to haul out
logs that will cut out a figure
that has to be seen to be
believed.
But it was not always like
this. There was a time when
you couldn’t get rid of the
logs. You can still see the
remains of huge maple- and
walnut-trees lying out in the
paddocks, fallen with the
scrub, and no market for
them.
One old-timer told me that
one in his paddock would fetch
over £lOOO if it were standing
today. When it was fallen,
you couldn’t have given it
away.
But, of course, every region
has its problems: the Table-
land is no exception. In an
area of high rainfall, soil-
erosion is naturally one. The
cultivated areas around
Atherton have taken a pound-
ing with the storms. Much of
the soil has gone over the
Barron Falls. But there is a
plan in operation now to stop
any further destruction. The
whole of this part of the district
is linked with a scheme to hold
the water to its normal water-
way. Whole farms have been
contoured, and the wash is
practically controlled.
You can’t see the damage
so much in the grassed lands.
But it’s there, just the same.
The exposed soil is leaching-
out, and bracken-fern and
other weeds are creeping in.
But here, too, the trouble is
being kept in check. Pasture-
furrows to stop run-off;
pasture-renovation and the
introduction of legumes; a
better svstem of pasture-
grazing. These.are only some
of the ways farmers are work-
ing to stop their land from
slipping in fertility.
What is the future for the
Atherton Tableland? Ask
anyone up there and he will
tell you it’s never been brighter.
An expanding milk-trade, with
a price removed from the
fluctuations of the uncertain
export-market, make the future
rosy.
The new bridge over the
Burdekin will mean an un-
interrupted contact with the
south. The Tinaroo dam will
open-up a belt of country as
fertile as any you could find in
the State. No wonder it’s hard
to buy a farm anywhere in the
district.
But, as I see it, there is a
vast area waiting to be opened-
up by good all-weather roads.
This is the belt of cattle-
country lying to the north and
stretchirig to the Cape and the
Gulf. Apart from cattle, it’s
rich in minerals. When it is
opened-up, it will be the Table-
land that will supply this
country with milk, butter,
vegetables, and grain for the
stock, as well as markets for
the grown cattle.
Agricola.
Prefab. Silage-pit
“Dekalb”: Shaped like a pit-
silo, yet built above ground-
level, prefabricated silos are
proving their worth in the
U.S.A. Advantages over the
pit-type include the fact that
they can be built anywhere on
the farm (as against the
restricted siting for excava-
tion) ; there is less wastage
from the concrete sides than
from earth ; and while the
prefab.-pits are just as easy to
fill, they are much easier to
empty or to allow the stock to
self-feed.
Many U.S. farmers are
emptying their prefabs, with
front-end loader?, which take
the silage straight to feed-bins.
The loaders could be used to
fill trucks which would take
the fodder to stodk in paddocks.
The floor of the silo is
poured first, and the side-
panels are cast in formes on top
of the floor. The floor can be
poured wherever there is a
slope of 6in. per 100ft. A 4in.
floor with reinforcing only
along the outside edges is
recommended.
Buttresses are cast in special
formes and raised into place
after they have been cured. The
sides are raised against the
buttresses, and fastened.
Spaces between the floor and
panels, and between panels,
are caulked with concrete to
give a tight seal.
Filled to the top, a 20ft.-by-
50ft. silo holds about 100 tons
of silage. As you can drive
through this type of silo, filling
is easy. Plastic-sheeting held
( down by earth reduces top-
wastage to a minimum.
W.A. Wool Worries
“Bolivar”: This has been an
unhappy season for the West
Australian woolbrokers, for
the W.A. Woolbuyers’ Asso-
ciation, and for many wool-
growers. Which seems peculiar
when demand and prices for
wool have been so satisfactory.
Woolbuying in the West has
always been on a different
footing from that in the eastern


isjasaaSa
TILLEYi
Jamps
Juirn
brighter
longer!
100% BRITISH.
SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
BURNS 12 HOURS ON PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
I. H. BENTLEY
LTD.
1092 MT ALEXANDER RD.. ESSENDON, VICTORIA
States. Selling wool by auction
was only introduced in 1922 ;
previously all the north-west
pastoral wool was shipped
direct to London for sale,
while the comparatively small
amount of wool grown in the
agricultural districts was either
sent to London, or sold to
firms which acted as agents for
overseas manufacturers.
Some of these firms are still
and their clients
have stuck to them, especially
those growers in the lower
south-west, where shearing is
late and delays in realisation
are long.
Even with the general adop-
tion of the auction-system in
recent years, some 30,000 bales
were bought privately each
season for direct shipment.
Last year a new class of
buyer came into the market,
and private sales were estimated
at some 50,000 bales.
Obviously there was money
in it, and this season started
with a positive rash of buyers,
agents and dealers scouring the
country for wool, and with
such success that brokers have
had their greatest headaches
since they started in business.
Out of a total clip for the
State of about 498,000 bales, it
is now estimated that over
100,000 bales have been
bought “off the sheep’s back.”
Nearly all of "this wool has been
shipped overseas, only a small
proportion of dealers’ wool
being offered on the floors.
The effect of this was not
noticeable at sales until after
the New Year, but by February
it had ruined the auction-selling
arrangements for the rest of the
season.
Brokers had arranged two
sales in March, one of 38,000
bales, and the second of
30,000 bales. They expected
that they would be overfilled.
At the first sale, all they
could scrape together—and it
took some scraping was
19,000 bales. The second sale
was cancelled, and there will
not be another until the new
season’s wool starts to come in
from the pastoral country.
Result: the brokers lost their
profits from the sale of a fifth
of the State’s clip, buyers’
arrangements were dis-
organised, and manufacturers
were left in the soup.
The private buyers have, of
course, done very nicely. One
estimate, and it is not the
highest, places their profits for
the season at about £2 million.
The people who provided the
£2 million are, of course, the
woolgrowers who sold privately
at an estimated loss of between
£l5 and £2O a bale.
Everything was in
favor. An increase in overseas
values between the seasons’
programmes gave them the
chance to offer growers a few
pence a lb. more than they
had received the previous year,
and still have a nice margin
in reserve.
They offered cash on the nail,
knowing that one of the biggest
drawbacks to the auction-
system is the length of time
that growers are kept waiting
for their money.
The Suez Canal crisis, with
the risk of war and the possi-
bility of Government control
of wool* was cleverly played
upon.
Another factor, which the
brokers themselves did not
recognise, is that they are far
from being so popular in the
country as they imagined.
The woolbroking firms are,
of course, the stock-and-station
agents, as well as many other
things. There are plenty of
farmers and stock-breeders
who believe that firms’ profits
are too high and their power
too great.
This attitude on the part
of the grower was all to the
benefit of the buyer who came
to the farm with a good story
and a ready cheque-book.
It cannot be expected that
the wool-firms will lie down
under this setback, or that
the private buyers will be able
to operate to such advantage
again, but it is a fact that the
buyers are engaged in a busy
campaign to maintain their
position next season, and only
a steady fall in values will put
the horde of agents and specu-
lators out of business.
By introducing fortnightly
sales of crutchings with immedi-
ate payment after the sale, the
brokers have saved something
out of the wreck, and the
rising market is in their favor,
but it will be interesting to see
what happens next season.
Whatever happens, it should
be to the advantage of the
woolgrower, and, with any
decent amount of organisation,
he should be able to secure
some permanent benefit.
Handfeeding
“Keith”: The two most
common mistakes about hand-
feeding are to start too late or
finish too early. An animal is
much easier and cheaper to
keep at its normal weight than
to bring back into condition,
once it has lost it.
A week after you begin hand-
feeding rain could restore the
paddock-feed, and your neigh-
bors might tell you that you
have wasted your supple-
mentary fodder. Don’t believe
them. Feed inside the animal
is rarely wasted. v
By giving-up handfeeding as
soon as you sniff the rain that
is going to break the drought,
you don’t give stock a chance
to gain the strength to take
advantage of the better season,
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(28/4/’57)
Generally speaking, Queensland should get moderate
rains below normal during May, although there may be
good falls in the south-west and southern-border areas.
General rains are likely to occur in the whole of the State
during June and July, with the prospect of flooding in
southern Queensland.
General rains should occur in N.S.W. during May,
although these may not he as good as originally anticipated.
General rains should continue in June -and July, becoming
patchy from August on.
Good general rains throughout Victoria during May,
but, apart from fairly heavy rains in the western district,
rainfall should be moderate during June and July.
The present trend of the season suggests good general
rains in the whole of South Australia during May, although
some variation could occur, as this is not substantiated
on alb cycles.
Heavy general rains likely in Western Australia during
May, and particularly on the coast from Geraldton south.
General rains should continue in the south-west during
June, although these may be below normal.
LENNOX WALKER.


6
i
SS
%
\j
rnnimm
&
g
/
/
I IMPROVED
HYDRAULICS
VARIABLE DRm
P.T.O.
2 CTA6E
CLUTCHING (uv£PJ.o\
6FORWm
SPEEDS z reverse
Plus all the other features you ever wanted
- ALL IN ONE MIGHTY TRACTOR
PETROL - KEROSENE - DIESEL MODELS
For full illustrated literature, prices, etc., on the New *3s’ see your
Local Dealer —or contact
BRITISH TRACTOR i IMPLEMENTS
PTY. LTD.
1-56-158 Sydney Street, New Farm, Brisbane Phone LWI Oil.
or the grasses the opportunity
to thicken-up well. Sheep
deaths during the 1943-45
drought didn’t stop until many
weeks after the rain fell. In
some cases the weight of rain
on the fleeces of weak sheep
can cause trouble.
Again, it’s a mistake to give-
up handfeeding as soon as the
lambs arrive. Supplementary
food is nearly as important in
maintaining the ewe’s milk-
flow as it is in preventing twin-
lamb disease.
Other advantages include
bigger and better lambs, and
heavier and sounder fleeces. A
good ration for ewes is lib. of
oats and lib. to 21b. good
clover-hay a day. There is as
much food-value in |lb. of
wheat or barley as in lib. of
oats. Bring sheep on to grain-
feeding slowly.
Onion Disease
“Ondit”: Fog-rot major
threat to onion-growing in Vic-
toria —has growers looking for
clean areas in which to sow
their crops. Once in a pad-
dock, fog-rot is virtually im-
possible to get out. And it is
very hard to prevent the disease
being spread by the tiny black
sclerotes which live in the soil.
Sclerotes can be transferred to
clean paddocks by machinery,
boots, tractor-tyres —in. fact,
by anything to which soil
can stick —and sclerotes from
diseased onions can pass right
through animals ; so don’t feed
stock on onions from infested
paddocks.
Firestick Dangers
“Tambo”: Premature use of
the firestick in crop-stubble
not only causes grave risk of
fire (as recently, in north-east
Victoria), but also bares the
soil for dangerously long
periods.
Stubble should not be burned
in any area with less than 18in.
of rain a year. Apart from
the loss of organic-matter
which the rotted stubble would
add to the soil, many of the
minerals are blown away in
the ash. Bared soil blows
easily, and should be ridged
as soon as possible if it is to
be idle for long.
These days, disk-implements
handle straw well enough to
remove any need for burning ;
although there may be some
excuse for the firestick in the
newly cleared areas, where
shoots are still a nuisance.
The only other place where
stubbles can be fired without
much danger to the soil is in
clover-ley land, where burning
of the stubble after the first
crop is actually recommended.
In this case, the soil is not bare
for long, and, being healthy, it
can resist wind and water better
than regularly cropped soil
can.
Strawberry-clover
“Big Billy”: Best pasture-
grass to plant in swampy
ground in Victoria is Palestine
strawberry-clover. This type of
clover will grow in a wide
range of soil-conditions and has
a high degree of tolerance to
salt, which could be a factor
where drainage is poor. It also
has a deep root, which enables
it to hang on in ground which
is flooded in winter but dries-
out during the summer.
However, for the variety to
survive for any length of time
under flooded conditions, the
water must not become stag-
nant. And even with water on
the move, first-year seedlings
would probably die.
Where prolonged flooding is
likely, Victorian D. of A.
experts recommend a 50-50
mixture of scarified and
unscarified seed. Strawberry
can be established with 21b. of
seed per acre, or by the use
of Cuttings if the swampy area
is relatively small and can’t
be worked to a seed-bed.
Best grass to use in associa-
tion with strawberry-clover is
phalaris (21b. per acre) because
it has a similar growing-season
and is also resistant to swampy
conditions. Sow with super,
in a moist bed.


Women’s Letter
MELBOURNE
, There were 150 guests at the Mediter-
ranean Fashion Show in the Union
| House buffet, one of the functions
arranged to help along funds for the
Union House Appeal. Pretty girls dressed
in national costumes showed guests to
their tables and sprayed them with
French-perfume. Mannequins included
University students, Madame R. Dugou-
jard (wife of the French commercial-
secretary), and Madame M. Devez
(wife of a French representative
' living here). Local and imported fashions
were shown, including casuals for those
planning winter-holidays up north.
Guests included Mrs. Arthur Dean, Lady
Paton, the Marchesa Serafini (wife of the
Italian Consul-General), Madame Le Bas
de Plumetot (wife of the French Consul),
Lady McConnan, Mrs. S. McKay, Mrs.
Max Shaw, Mrs. E. K. Smart, Mrs. D.
M. Hocking, Mrs. Ted Cordner and
Pamela Middleton.
\ a ☆ ☆
J To celebrate their National Day,
which is also the Emperor’s birthday,
Japanese Consul Y. Yamamoto and
Madame Yamamoto gave a large cocktail-
party at Menzies’ Hotel. Wearing a
national-costume of flowered silk-brocade
inset with panels of deep-purple silk, and
finished with a cream-and-gold obi, the
hostess received the guests with her hus-i
band. With the Premier was Mrs. BolteJ
smart in a slimly tailored black wool suit
and a black velvet high-crowned hat
piped with white satin. Also wearing a
black ensemble was the Lady Mayoress
(Lady Selleck), who accompanied the Lord
Mayor.
Also at the party were the Archbishop
of Melbourne (Dr. J. J. Booth) and Mrs.
Booth ; Legislative Council President Sir
Clifden Eager and Lady Eager ; Transport
Minister Sir Arthur Warner and Lady
Warner, Sir William and Lady Bridge-
ford, Sir John and Lady Teasdale, U.S.
Consul-General Warner and Mrs.
Warner, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Smithers,
Swiss Consul M. Paul Emile Cattin and
Madame Cattin, Captain Charles Burge,
R.N. ret., and Mrs. Burge, Mrs. Herbert
Brookes and Mr. and Mrs. Ewart
Chappie. -v
☆ ☆ ☆
This Letter popped over to Sydney for
a few days at Easter and relaxed in the
warm sun under a cloudless, windless
sky. Mrs. Humbert Pugliese gave a
delightful dinner-party for Melbourne
visitors Mr. and Mrs. W. K. Burnside at
her lovely Vaucluse home, where she was
assisted by her sister Anne and brother
Frank. A Belgian, M. Albert Bryk, who
was at this party, was also at another given
later in the week by Mrs. Pugliese for
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Watt.
Trevor Clarke, of Dunkeld, and his
daughter Carmen, Mrs. Lindsay Mildred
and her twin daughters Patricia and
Elizabeth, Cr. Harry Lyall and Mrs.
Lyall, and Mr. and Mrs. Leon Ress were
others in Sydney for the Royal Show and
the races.
Two memories brought back from
Sydney by this Letter: the magnificence
of the Anzac Day march as seen on tele-
vision—and picking out of the thousands
who marched a friend; and the tall,
beautiful blonde dressed in white walking
down Castlereagh-street leading a snow-
white French poodle—a sight that caused
scarcely a head to turn.
Rowena Jackson, who will be one of
the principal dancers in the forthcoming
season of Borovansky ballet, is a New
Zealander, and the first from that
Dominion to be awarded a Royal
Academy of Dancing scholarship. She
joined the Sadler’s Wells School, where,
during her final months, she won the
coveted Adeline Genee Gold Medal.
Graduating through the corps de ballet,
her technical brilliance and flair for
character-interpretation, 'added to a dis-
tinctive appearance, led to important
roles, and she made her bow as first-
ballerina in a full-length ballet in “Swan
Lake” three years ago. Cyril Swinson
describes her dancing as “dazzling, crisp,
sharp and accurate , with a sense of
reserved force.”
When Leslie Jacqueline, the eldest
daughter of Mr. E. R. Reynolds, Q.C.,
and Mrs. Reynolds, was married to lan
Edward Hayne at St. John’s, Toorak, she
wore a gown of white delustred satin
patterned in an Italian-quilted rose-
design. Straight- in front, the skirt fell
from box-pleats at the back into a full
train. The bodice featured a square
neckline and long, tight-fitting sleeves.
The full-length tulle veil was caught at
the back with two roses, and she carried a
trailer of white roses. Mrs. John Palliser,
Julia Reynolds, Rowena Hayne and
.Jenny Browning attended the bride and
wore long, full-skirted gowns of white
French-organza with swathed cross-over
bodices. Across the back of their hair
were bands of dusty-pink satin, matching
the sashes which emphasised the Empire-
line of their gowns. Their bouquets were
of white hyacinths and stephanotis. Tiny
Susan Hayne was flower-girl, her long
frock being of white organza. The bride-
groom, who is the eldest son of Mr. and
Mrs. E. L. Hayne of Toorak, had Godfrey
Howitt as best man ; Charles Hayne, Peter
King and Andrew Lockwood were
groomsmen.
Mr. and Mrs. Reynolds received the
guests with Mr. arid Mrs. Hayne at a
reception held at the Hotel Windsor.
The bride’s mother chose a long-sleeved
frock of violet-blue paper-taffeta featur-
ing a draped skirt. Her matching hat was
finished with a flat jewelled-bow in front,
and her accessories were bronze. Mrs.
Hayne’s pure-silk-taffeta frock was in
taupe tonings, and the full-folded skirt
was finished with a matching cummer-
bund. With it she wore a large bottle-
green velvet hat, and her accessories were
in taupe.
☆ ☆ *
A.B.C. chairman Sir Richard Boyer and
general-manager Charles Moses were at
the reception given by the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra subscribers-commit-
tee, at which the- guests-of-honor were
Sir Bernard Heinze (now Director of the
Sydney Conservatorium of Music) and
Mr. Ricardo Odnoposoff. The artistic
arrangement of autumn-foliage and
hydrangeas in the reception-room was the
work of Mrs. W. Westley, Mrs. J. Mul-
lany and Mrs. A. Gibson. Mr. and Mrs.
Guy Bakewell received the guests. In-
cidentally, while in this city, Sir Bernard
Heinze, who was formerly Ormond
Professor of Music at the University,
presented a. portrait of himself, painted
in oils by artist Paul Fitzgerald, to the
University.
CANBERRA
To mark the opening of their new
air-terminal buildings, the directors of
A.N.A. gave a late-afternoon reception.
Chairman P. W. Haddy introduced the
Minister for the Interior, Mr. Alan Fair-
hall, who performed the official opening.
Two-hundred guests were entertained in
the main lounge, one entire wall of which
is built in the design of a world-map in
white relief on a blue background.
Mrs. Frank Lukis, wife of A.N.A.’s
Canberra manager, Air-Commodore
Lukis, wore a smart white fur hat
trimmed in bronze satin with her black
suit. Guests included Sir Arthur Fadden ;
the High Commissioner for South Africa,
Mr. J. K. Uys (whose appointment as his
country’s Ambassador to West Germany
has just been announced) and Mrs. Uys ;
the Ambassador for France, Monsieur
Renaud Sivan ; Mr. Justice Simpson and
his wife ; Mr. and Mrs. Fred May, her
frock in cinnamon wool highlighted by
a smart green-and-beige hat; and Dr. and
Mrs. Clive Statham.


SYDNEY
The week’s news has been dominated
by the Coral Sea celebrations, which
annually bring to Sydney American naval
folk in sizeable numbers. This year we
have the U.S. aircraft-carrier Bennington
(with Rear-Admiral Fitz Hugh Lee) and
four destroyers. This means that there
are about 292 American officers and 3605
men decorating the city and lending quite
an atmosphere to the occasion.
Chief social function was of course
the Coral Sea Ball, held on Friday at
the Trocadero. Silver stars and moons
dangled from the ceiling and palm-fronds
mingled with flags to make the decora-
tions. Guests-of-honor, Admiral Felix
B. Stump and Mrs. Stump, were wel-
comed by president of the ball-committee
Mrs. lan Jacoby, glittering in a short
white satin dress embroidered with
diamente and crystal, and swathed with
Arctic fox, and by Mr. and Mrs. E. K.
White (he is president of the Australian-
American Association), who had earlier
entertained the Admiral and Mrs. Stump
at dinner at the Australia. There were
round about 600 at the ball, which, like
most functions peppered with Americans,
was gay and lively.
☆ ☆ ☆ .
When Admiral and Mrs. Stump
attended Tattersall’s meeting at Rand-
,wick on Saturday, Mrs. Stump chose
Heroic Victory in honor of the Coral
Sea victory, and, lo and behold. Heroic
Victory sailed home at 16 to 1! “Why
study form?” said the men in the party,
tearing-up their tickets.
☆ ☆ ☆
It was very pleasant to motor to
Lapstone Hill on Sunday for the
luncheon-party given for about 150
guests by Air-Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
A. L. Walters, and to roam through the
grounds “on top of the world” in the
autumn sunshine. Mrs. Carl Helden, the
Walterses’ daughter, was present at the
party looking very attractive in a
cherry-red dress; she is visiting her
parents for two months from her home
in Sweden. Noted among the guests
were Mrs. Ethel Anderson (whose latest
book, At Parramatta, has been so well
received) with her daughter Mrs. Allan
Foott, Mrs. C. R. McKerihan (looking
very dashing and Scottish in a black
cloak and a tam-o’-shanter), Mr.
Norman Jenkyn (sporting a canary-
yellow waistcoat), Lady Boyer (convers-
ing with Mrs. Orrery Taft on the
success of the Coral Sea Ball), Lady Berry-
man (in tweeds, chatting to Sir Hudson
Fysh), Miss Margaret Gillespie (in a
shady hat) with her sister Miss Frances
Gillespie, and Mrs. Alec Morgan with
her son, Dr. Bruce Morgan.
☆ ☆ *
Heather which decorated the tables
at the Scot’s College Ball was tied with
the 'Campbell colors in compliment to
the guest-of-honor, Major-General lan
Campbell, an Old Boy of the school, and
Mrs. Campbell. Headmaster A. E.
McLucas and Mrs. McLucas attended the
ball for the first time. Mr. and Mrs.
F. F. Munro received the guests, Mrs.
Munro wearing black organza over
white. The official party included
representatives of all G.P.S., also Dr.
George Bell, 0.8. E., and Mrs. Bell, Dr.
and Mrs. Harwood, and Mr. and Mrs.
J. B. Maltman. About 800 attended the
ball, which was held at the Trocadero,
and which was introduced as usual by
the stirring playing of the pipes by the
school pipe-band.
j?
Eleven debutantes, ex-students of the
school, made their bow to Bishop
Freeman at the Monte Sant’ Angelo ball
at the Empress Ballroom, and were
presented by Mrs. Keith Brown. Presi-
dent Miss Mary Leonard was assisted in
entertaining by Mrs. Rorrra O’Reilly,
Joan Lock and Therese Stormon. The
debs, had earlier in the evening danced
their debutantes’ waltz at their old school
for the benefit of the nuns who had been
their teachers only a few months ago.
Jane Decent, of Roseville, whose
engagement was announced recently, is
a member of an old-established Aus-
tralian family, and her fiance, Stuart
Kennedy, is also of pioneering stock.
They plan to marry in September in the
Chapel of The King’s School, of which
Stuart Kennedy is an Old Boy. Photo by
Norton Trevaire.
“She is as lovely as the season,” was
one of the admiring expressions heard
when Julie, daughter of the Frank
Kelsos of Darling Point-road, became
Mrs. Wallace Lock at St. Mark’s, Darling
Point. There is nothing autumnal about
her age, however, and she was radiant
in her frock of Swiss guipure-lace and
nylon-tulle, forming a back bustle, with
a decollete neckline of satin embroidered
with diamente and pearls ; her bouquet
was of gardenias and lilies-of-the-valley.
Julie was attended by Diana Kelso and
Sylvia Barker, wearing embroidered
white organdie caught with pink satin
bows. The parties are all Darling Point
people. Frank Kelso has troops of
friends among pastoralists for his work
among them as a Goidsbrough, Mort
man.
☆ ☆ ☆
The standard of speech-making at the
Town Hall opening of the Country
Women’s Association was so impressive
that one felt quite proud of Australian
women’s achievement in this respect.
After the Governor had made his open-
ing remarks, Mrs. Lander outlined the.
work that the C.W.A. had done during
the year—work that covers a wide area,
for this association now handles assets
valued at three-quarters of a million
pounds. Mrs. W. H. Cullen and Mrs.
K. P. Kirkby also made impressive
speeches, and Mrs. R. G. Casey, on the
subject of her recent visit to England and
America, was most vigorous and interest-
ing. With all the talent and ability that
is displayed on occasions like this, it
seems a shame that not more Australian
women are in Parliament.
V V V
Sidelights on U.N. Assemblies supplied
by Mrs. R. G. Casey at the C.W.A.
opening: (1) There is no time-limit to the
speeches in the Assembly and the record,
held by Krishna Menon, was 1\ hours!
(2) The meetings invariably start
unpunctually. (3) The common bond,
the basic link among nations, seems to
be horn-rimmed glasses!
« X
Everyone is delighted, of course, that
“The Summer of the Seventeenth Doll”
has had such a successful opening in
London, though it is suggested that it
was the Australian community in London
which practically filled the house on the
first night. Rosemary Miller, Charles
and Audrey Tingwell, the James Work-
mans, David Nettheim, Winifred Hindle
were among the many Australian people
of the theatre who are reported to have
been there, and also there were many
English people who are well known here
—Mr. and Mrs. John Casson, for
example, and, of course, Sir Laurence
and Lady Olivier. Sydney and Cynthia
Nolan, Gwen Plumb and Thelma Scott,
Jocelyn Rickards, Kay Hammond and
John Clements were also there. It must
have been a very joyous occasion, and,
by all accounts, author Ray Lawler made
a curtain-speech that was a fitting
epilogue to the play.
☆ ☆ ☆
Regarding curtain-speeches: Paul
Rogers won laughter from the audience
at the curtain of “Hamlet” the other
night. He said that this was but the
second time he had worked in conjunc-
tion with Mr. Hugh Hunt. On the
previous occasion he had appeared before
the Queen, and, he added ; “I was not
at all nervous during the play because
I was quite §ure that the audience had
come to see her.”


artist, a sculptor . . . until the
water-police reported that they
had fished an unknown
foreigner’s dead body, a gentle-
man-suicide, from the muddy
Whangpu River. But Mrs.
Dammerskjoeld moved in a
different circle from our com-
mittee, was made of firmer
stuff for solving problems.
Perhaps . . .
“When I got to the French
end of the Bund I turned and
strolled all the way back along
the waterfront; absorbing the
splendid Shanghai atmosphere
—I had hated inland China —
revelling in the clang of trams,
the honk of motorcars, the
rumble of native buses, the
hurrying people, the excite-
ment ; happier every minute
to be back in the city I love,
vowing never again to be
thrust out of it.
“I sat down on a bench in
the wee Bund garden that’s
sheltered by Garden Bridge—
la ? I was gazing with appre-
ciation at the Chinese junks,
the sampans, the modest,
foreign-passenger ships, and
big, impressive gunboats ply-
ing up and down or anchored
in the river, when I heard a
long-drawn sigh coming from
the other end of the bench. I
glanced up to find a discon-
solate, strangely familiar figure
hunched there. His good dark
hat was pushed back on his
head, his tired feet in their
heavy shoes were spread wide
on the ground. His black
attache-case lay open beside
him.
“When he saw me looking
at him, his hand automatically
reached inside the case, took
out an article and thrust it
toward me.
“ ‘You wouldn't want to buy
a cake of soap, would you?’
said a timid, cultured voice.
“ ‘Yes. Certainly,’ I replied,
pushing some money into his
hand.
“The shock of making a
sale seemed to unlock his poor,
numbed mind. He jumped to
his feet, straightened his
shoulders, bowed and presented
me with his calling-card.
Beautifully engraved in black
letters on a white surface
was:
Professor Tannenbaum, Heidelberg
University.
Instructor of South American
History.
Author of Books on Prison Reform.
Also The Inter-racial Question.
“ ‘Glad to meet you, Mr.
Fir-Tree,’ I said, making a little
joke out of his name. I hadn’t
known up until then just what
he was —la ? Doctor? Lawyer?
Now I knew. A professor.
Uprooted from his useful work
in a university - classroom.
Dumped into open-door China.
Lost absolutely.
“Now that he’d found a
friend the poor thing relaxed.
Leaning back on that hard
garden-bench he took off his
hat, mopped his hot brow,
laid aside his glasses. And
talked. On and on. Showing
me papers to prove his words.
“His eyes behind the thick
lenses were large, soft and
velyet-brown. Like a gazelle
that never did harm, yet has
been wounded unto death.
“The more he talked, the
“Any luck?“
more indignant I became. Here
was a dear soul who had spent
his years helping the unedu-
cated, so they might learn how
to understand this world. Self-
less, thinking of others. Now
he was abandoned, thrust-out.
And as unable to take care of
himself as a new-born brown
baby bear. I was determined I
would plant this fir-tree back
into the kind of soil where it
belonged, but right here in
Shanghai.”
TT enchanted me the way Dusk
spoke, discussing this
refugee in terms of a Malay
Jungle version of the German
Black Forest.
“ ‘You must learn to take
life as an adventure,’ I told him.
‘Dramatise yourself a bit.
What? Have you never heard
about a man cut off from his
source of income, banished
from his proper country? An
artist, for instance?’
“ ‘Lives in an attic,' he said
absentmindedly. ‘But this
displacing; I never meet any-
one who knows what to do
about it.’
“ ‘Well,’ I assured him,
‘you’ve met me. I know what
to do about it.’
“He put his hand in mine,
as trustful as a child He
couldn’t bear to go back to
the windowless cubbyhole of a
room a distracted and over-
worked Relief Committee had
stuffed him into when he
had arrived from Europe. So
I parked him with my baggage
at the North Station, went away
for a while, and when I’d made
certain arrangements, I went
back and collected them both.
Moved us all into an attic in
Nantao, the older, native, city-
district, you know.
“The attic happened to be
at the top of a missionary’s
house. South Gate was the
location. Professor Tannen-
baum was to teach mathematics
in various mission-universities.
The salary was not big, but
enough for food and trans-
portation—he had clothes, and
the attic was rent-free.
“Missionaries are good, kind
people, very determined, and
with God a strong bulwark,
behind them, nobody can defy
them for long, la ? They
needed a certain kind of pro-
fessor, were determined to
have him. Why import one
from America now that there
was talent right here on the
spot? And when I showed
them Professor Tannenbaum’s
credentials which he had
handed me out of the black
attache-case, they assured me
that any such qualified pro-
fessor of the Jewish race would
be able to teach higher
mathematics. So I stopped
repeating that my Fir-tree
knew the South American
history, wished to teach only
the South American history,
and I hoped for xY.z best.
“ ‘ You’ll be here, a good
wife looking after him,’ they
said when I arrived with the
professor. ‘Otherwise we
couldn’t consider this attic for
his living. It has no central
heating. The wood - stove
requires continual stoking, and
we can’t spare a servant for it.’
“I truly had no intention of
having Professor Tannenbaum
as a husband, but what could
I do? Let him freeze to death?
A good teacher he proved, too,
as soon as he got over the
shock about the mathematics.”
AS I gazed, fascinated, at
Mrs. Lars, I saw her from
a differeqt aspect. Was it
because, absorbed in her story,
her true thoughts at that
moment were reflected on her
face? Or did her virginal,
untouched look come from the
physical incidence of wide-set
eyes and a smooth brow?
Virginal, untouched —the look
you sometimes, paradoxically,
see on the face of a mother of
six children.
The voice flowed on, dedi-
cated.
“I got my rugs and so forth
out of storage. Also collected
his few possessions from the
Relief Committee. The attic
was real nice when I finished
fixing it up. And my Fir-
tree? I will defy any person
not to have fallen in love with
him that winter as we sat
beside the stove, evenings—


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Fried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
he with a substantial wiener-
schnitzel inside him, a velvet
study-jacket on his back, and
warm woollen ski-socks from
the Bavarian Alps on his feet.
Smoking his pipe, preparing
next day’s lessons while I
enlarged my knowledge of the
German language.
“But you know what? The
more comfortable that man
got, the more discontented.
He’d married a Gentile wife
back there in Germany. All
the world knows a Jewish-
Gentile marriage is never
successful, la ? But his and
Lisa’s marriage was successful,
a real love-match. Had you
looked into those vonderbar,
dark brown eyes of his you
would have known why, Miz.
Wain Smith.”
“What finally became of-
him?”
“Pardon?”
“I wonder where he got to?”
I said, changing my phrase-
ology to suit my guest, who,
when speaking English, some-
times proved deaf to all but
British colloquial wording.
“Where / got him to, you
mean,” said Mrs. Lars grimly.
“Just let me tell you. Any
Chinese in Shanghai can go
as crazy as he pleases, remains
unmolested. Not so a
foreigner. Other foreigners
collect him, see that he gets
locked up at Minghong asylum
in care of the Catholic priests.”
The Tannenbaums, I learned,
had been wrenched apart at
thexvharf in Germany. Grief-
stricken and dazed by the turn
of Hitler events, they had
no plan ready. She, as a
Gentile, was free to go where
she chose. But he, with a
ticket reading Jew pinned to
his coat-lapel, was shovelled
on to a crowded ship bound
for China. “I’ll go to the
friends we always summer with
in the Argentine,” sobbed Lisa ;
“unchanged, I’ll await your
coming. Same little muff,
same hat, same veil tied over
my face. Waiting.” His ship
pulled away, leaving her alone
there on the wharf.
Sfc'T'HE last sweltering heat
of summer was with
us up there in the attic on the
day word reached Professor
Tannenbaum, through the Red
Cross, that his wife was in the
Argentine,” explained Mrs.
Lars dramatically.
“ ‘Where am I, my dear?’
he asked me, with his usual old-
world courtesy. But when I
told him he shouted, ‘Who are
you anyhow? I belong in
South America. The climate
is too hot for my Lisa to wear
a veil down there!’
“And I knew that I must
remove him from the sight of
the missionaries, from
Shanghai, before his craziness
grew bigger.
“One sensible southern
Consul is amassing money for
his hard-pressed country, ever
since trouble in Europe started,
by selling citizenship which
gives entry to the Argentine.
Fifty dollars is what I paid
for the Professor —nothing for
me who found in the Consul's
office an old friend of the
bygone days when I used to live
in gay Macao with my husband
the French wine-merchant.
Soon the Fir-tree and I were
on a ship headed for South
America. He absentmindedly
walking and walking round the
decks wondering when he
would get there, and I enjoying
the ocean of the voyage as
usual.
“Have you ever travelled
third-class in an inside cabin
with thirty-five other women,
Miz. Wain Smith? ’Twas like
a cackling hen-coop.”
“No, I haven’t,” I said
honestly. “Captain Smith
brought me out to Shanghai
in the honeymoon-suite on the
Empress of Britain.”
“Preferable, of course, and
exactly the right way to train
a man.”
She hurried on:
“Finally the professor and I
got there. To Buenos Aires.
Said goodbye to the Relief
Committee which had given us
passage.
“The heat hung in waves
over the streets of Buenos
Aires as we walked along them.
The professor was panting
before we got very far. No
one had met us ; I was trying
to get him to a hotel.
“Suddenly round the corner
came a neat little figure in a
neat little hat. She looked cool
and refreshing. I knew she was
Miz. Tannenbaum even before
I noticed the smart blue tulle
that wound over her dainty
flowered chapeau and protected
her apple-cheeked face.
“Lisa! Liebchen," said the
Professor, pressing her close,
his hands tangled up in the
veil.”
, My guest’s voice sank to a
lower octave. It throbbed with
emotion, enunciated slowly, “I
left them like that: with-his-
dear-loving-hands-tangled - up-
in-her-veil.”
ALL that way to South
America! Who in Shang-
hai High Society would have
done that much for a poor,
uprooted old Jew? Well-
hidden under her seductive
surface, Dusk had a heart of
gold.
The recounter had paused,
sighing. Now she pulled her-
self together.
“Yes, it gave me a catch in
my heart, parting with him, I’ll
admit. But —well, 1 found an
ice-drink parlor to sit down
in. And it was there, in a
booth, that I met Lars Dam-
merskjoeld, ship’s carpenter.
We fell in love over the first
beer and he insisted on making
our union law-permanent, at
his Consulate. My other
marriages had all been love-
temporary only.
“After some struggles and
voyaging wtih him via the
West Coast of Africa, I got
back to Shanghai—as you see.
A happy woman with a proper
Norwegian passport. And I
founded my guesthouse!
Lars’ll be due in port most any
day now.”
A glass of beer seemed most
appropriate to the occasion, so
we had that before I let my
neighbor out my back-gate.
From there, through the
bamboo-fence, she would reach
her kitchen where Kung was
preparing the fabulous evening
meal for her boarders.
I sat down and finished the
beer.
TjEOPLE came and went,
flowing easily in those
good old times in China. 1
went on home-leave to
America ; returned.
To find that my fascinating
back-gate caller, dear matri-
monial expert Mrs. Lars
Dammerskjoeld who had
helped to supply a warm,
bosomy sense of womanhood
to iife in our rear alleyway,
had been “pulled out of Shang-
hai,” her favorite city. Wash-
amah explained it:
“Lars, husban’ come home
sudden.” His ship had not
called at our port for about
thirty-six months. Amah
made me see the cozy love-nest
his captivating wife had been
building during his long
absence. “Crazy jealous, he
shout ‘Come! No bring clothes,
bracelets. Come!’ He strong,
he pull, jerk ver-ry hard!”
“Her furniture?” I gasped.
“All those Bessarabian rugs,
frosted-silver vases, brass-
andirons, that lovely Coro-
mandel screen, the cane
lounging-chairs”
“Ah-yah! Cookboy Sung
understan’ nobody can sit
make love on thick hard Nor-
wegian bench by high table.
Sung fix all coolie your house,
other house quick snatch up
everything belong that poor
woman, pack under ginko-
tree here back-quarters, take
to city wharf. Sung cousin in
shipside loading-gang. Cousin
see everything go snug, night-
time, inside hold.”
So! She went prepared to
surround herself with the
usual charm, even though
Lars dumped her on the desert
island he threatened.
“Mis’ Lars cry ver-ry hard
she come say goodbye. Eye all
black, arm cut, ankle puff-up,
tears run down face.” Amah
paused thoughtfully, then she
said, “That woman ver-ry
happy. She say, proud, ‘My
man Lars big strong just like
Viking!’ ”
A drift of frangipani-
perfume from my tree across
our 1957 Vaucluse garden
brings back all that Shanghai
enchantment. Velvet skin, deep,
seductive laughter, voice like
golden honey. I miss you.
Dusk.
POEM
As a great tree, make love, and grow again—
the sky will lose its winter before long,
and the brown land turn sovereign of the corn.
Though February-staring ey es alone
cast down my spring to a bold winter now
and furrow hard my frost-struck lonely brow,
yet I will grow, though wintered everything,
a tree, my love, in the green land once more,
and in its branches know you naked there .
N.S.W.
ALAN RIDDELL.


quite correctly —that Mr. “Ralp”
Balsom is “an Australian painter who
has in his pictures experimented with
surrealist and abstract forms.” And
Balloch, it is nice to know, is a small
town at the lower end of Loch Lomond;
and Balder the Bright and Beautiful is
a tale from the Norse ; and Robert
Michael Ballantyne wrote “Coral
Island’’; and Ballarat is a historic gold-
mining city, the scene of the Eureka
Stockade which you can “q.v.” in Vol.
2, p. 222. And Honore de Balzac . . .
But one must not, like the giant toads
of Queensland (q.v., no doubt), thus
succumb to the lure of browsing among
the b’s.
The reason this reviewer got amongst
them was that he was looking to see
what “Pictorial Knowledge” has to say
about “The Bulletin”; and, alas,
though there are enchanting references
to bower-birds, banksias, Bulli, bull-
frogs and bullroarers, there is nothing
whatever about “The Bulletin” ; or at
least not in the Factual Index.
And the reason why one was looking
for “The Bulletin” was not out of mere
vanity—the way that authors look at
literary magazines, to see if they are
mentioned in the reviews ; and, if they
are not, decide that it is a very poor
issue—but because here was one sub-
ject on which one was tolerably expert;
and, specifically, because though the
Index had Brunton Stephens (and
Captain A. W. Stephens, who went up
in a balloon; and Stem-stitch and
Stegosaurus) it didn’t have A. G.
Stephens, who was surely a much more
important figure in Australian literary
history than the Queensland versifier.
A. G. Stephens, it may be, is
covered elsewhere: one really has not
thoroughly read the ten volumes of
this great compendium from end to
end. But then, when Kenneth Slessor
and Robert D. Fitz Gerald (misspelt
“Fitzgerald”) are mentioned, why isn’t
Judith Wright? When Mary Gilmore
is in, why isn’t Hugh McCrae? When
such minor English novelists as
Howard Spring are included, as well as
such Australian literary figures as
Joseph Furphy and Henry Lawson,
why have the compilers left out
William Gosse Hay and Xavier
Herbert? Pleasing as it is to be
informed that James Beaumont Neilson
was a Scotchman who invented hot-
blast gas-furnaces, why is there nothing
about Shaw Neilson, the Australian
who wrote poetry?
If Gruner, Streeton, Heysen, Tom
Roberts and Frederick McCubbin
(wrongly spelt McGubbin) are men-
tioned among the Australian artists,
should not space also have been found
for Hilder and Blamire Young?
Should not the Lindsays (Norman and
Lionel are mentioned) have been done
as a family, allowing space for Percy,
Ruby and Daryl?
And surely in Vol. 5, where there are
selections from folk-tales and fairy-
stories from many lands (some Brer
Rabbit tales, “Hansel and Gretel,”
etc.) Australia could have been better
represented than by a single aboriginal
folktale, author unstated?
At these points, where it is possible
to make a check on the encyclopaedia,
it cannot be said that it is wholly satis-
fying from an Australian point of view.
There is much of Australian interest;
more than one might expect; but there
are gaps.
The publishers tell us that it is a
special Australian edition of the
standard “Pictorial Knowledge” which
first appeared in 1930 and which was
particularly successful in Australia.
To help with the special edition it
commissioned, among other Aus-
tralians, “Mr. lan Grey, chairman of
the Society of Australian Writers;
Mr. Dal Stivens, the noted New South
Wales writer ; and Mr. Dennis Adams,
the lecturer at the National Art School,
Sydney, and official artist with the
R.A.A.F. and R.A.N. during the
Second World War.”
But, broadly speaking, despite the
conscientious efforts that have been
made to cover the Australian scene,
this is essentially a publishing ven-
ture planned and organised in England
and it is doubtful if any encyclopaedia
planned in this way could ever be com-
pletely satisfying in Australia.
Still, there is another way of looking
at it: not as an attempt at an Aus-
tralian encyclopaedia broadening into
world-references but as precisely what
it is: an English or world encyclo-
paedia with a very generous sprinkling
of Australian references ; and from that
point of view there is not much need
to criticise it. The young reader will
learn a good deal about Australia—
there are articles on N. S. Wales rail-
ways ; on the Flying Doctor; on
Sydney Harbor; on the Snowy River
scheme, and on a host of similar
subjects; he will at all times
have the pleasure of coming
across Australians in the most
unlikely places, Sir Samuel McCaughey
placed next to Macbeth, for example ;
and at the same time he will have the
whole world from baluchitheriums to
zouglodons spread out before his
wondering eyes.
A reviewer brought up on Arthur
M e e’s “Children’s Encyclopaedia”
cannot but envy him ; the more so
because the publishers declare that
“Pictorial Knowledge,” with its
numerous color-plates and black-and-
white illustrations, is specially arranged
to be attractive to the young. One
distinct advantage it has over most
encyclopaedias is that the volumes are
of a convenient - size and weight, so
that they do not have to be read lying
full-length on the floor; a point which
may not bother the young but is of
considerable consolation to parents.
THE CREEK
Boong, the hidden creek’s bull-frogs
sounded under saurian logs.
Boong, the subterranean sound
bubble-burst from stone-worn, round
rock-holes where the delicate mist
of mauve boronia hung and kissed
the fretting water. Boong, they spoke
where a wrist of tea-tree broke
out in white, rose-tinted stars.
Boong, boong, boong, where waratahs
burned above the banks in lush
depths of green and golden bush.
Boong, the creek’s sound rose and sank
as roots of trees and flowers drank
from their clear, deep source, that ran
when the flowering earth began.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.
Book-collecting
Chiefly concerned with the English
field, John Carter’s Books and Book
Collectors (Hart-Davis) might seem a
little remote from our own territory,
where from necessity as well as from
inclination most collectors go in for
Australiana ; but at least it is pleasing
to come across, when by a rare privi-
lege Mr. Carter is exploring the
“Bentley Three-Deckers,” one of the
most famous Australian novels singled
out as a particularly choice item:—
Two isolated titles deserve special
mention —the first English edition of
“Marcus Clarke’s” For the Term of
His Natural Life (1875), and the first
production of a famous partner-
ship An Irish Cousin (1889), by E.
(E. Sommerville and Martin Ross.
Why, incidentally, has Mr. Carter
thought it necessary to print Marcus
Clarke’s name in quotation marks?
It is not a pseudonym. His name was
just Marcus Clarke or Marcus
Andrew Hislop Clarke if we like to
give it its full historical rumble.
Mr. Carter’s account of inspecting
the Bentley three-deckers illustrates the
appeal his book should have, apart
from local interest, to booklovers any-
where ; for he writes very gently and
gracefully, as well as knowledgeably,
and has plenty of amusing anecdotes.
Bentley, whose firm was taken-over by
Macmillan in 1898, was, says Mr.
Carter, “a beautifully eccentric old
gentleman”:—
Much of the upper part of his
house was fitted up like the interior
of a ship. These quarters he would
often show to visitors, and the
original drawings for Ingoldsby too.


But penetration to the attic was a
very different affair and it was several
years before I myself achieved it—
it was too dark and cold, said Mr.
Bentley, to be attempted except at
midsummer, and I could see for
myself that entry was made only by a
ladder, a trapdoor and a stout rope
of nautical style. One eventful day,
however, my host with an- agility
which more than abolished the fifty
years between us, led me up into an
immensely long attic lined with glass
shelves—and there was his collec-
tion, his personal file, of the firm’s
fiction output, all uncut, unopened
and practically as new ... It was like
a first glimpse of Venice or the
Parthenon.
Another Australian item which
receives honorable mention —in a
chapter on the vice of collecting
detective-stories —is Fergus Hume’s
“The Mystery of a Hansom Cab,”
which, first published in Melbourne in
1887, had sold, when the author died in
1932, over half-a-million copies^—“No
other detective-story before or since can
have touched such sale-records.”
Other essays deal with famous book-
collectors ; the forgeries of Thomas
Wise ; and collecting in various special
fields, the poet A. E. Housman, for
example, who, though most of his
poetry is easy enough to come by, offers
the hunter of his scholastic essays such
rare and improbable delicacies as the
“Introductory Lecture” he delivered at
University College, London, in 1882.
Sean O'Casey
Sean O’Casey’s The Green Crow
(W. H. Allen) consists mostly of
reprinted essays, some in praise of
G. B. Shaw and some in dispraise of
Noel Coward, some in praise of Mr.
Casey’s own plays and some in
dispraise of his critics.
There are also some short-stories,
in style and tone rather like those
of James Joyce’s “Dubliners,” setting
out not so much to tell a convincing
story as, each time, to convey an image
of the utter hopelessness of mortal
existence. Whether Mr. Casey really
holds so grim a view of things or
whether he has fallen into a convention
from which he cannot escape is an
open question; but it is certain that
you can get the essence of all these
stories simply by reading the last
sentence each time.
Thus “I Wanna Woman,” an
extremely sentimental piece, ends
with:—
And he tightened his teeth
together, cursed deeply and lay still,
as the telephone-bell rang . . . rang
. . . rang.
“The Star-jazzer” ends:—
She yielded to him in weariness
and from habit as she lay stretched
on her back; her sleepy eyes opened
and she saw the star that had seen
her dancing gleaming grandly down
at her through the window of the
skylight.
“The Job” ends:—
She sent the iron flying into a far
corner with a vicious swing, and
clenched and crushed the green
cami-knickers in her hands, and her
lips quivered as she sat silent.
And “A Fall in a Gentle Wind”
winds tearfully to the conclusion:—-
With a gliding spring, the motor
moved away.
Moving away with a gliding spring
from the repetition of this formula, the
reviewer finds Mr. O’Casey consider-
ably livelier in his prolonged attack
on Noel Coward, who, to sum-up,
“hasn’t yet shaken even a baby-rattle
of life in the face of one watching
audience.” He says of Shaw, “A
wonderful man is Shaw, lord of a
century of good deeds and great work.”
He describes his own plays, simply, as
“masterpieces”; and he calls his critics,
particularly the Irish ones, “a dull
bunch,” “geese,” “snakes,” “fleas,”
“yapping dogs,” “dodos,” “pew-
openers in the temple of drama,”
“groundlings,” “tufted toffs,” “great
Irish eagles” and “little gnarled nuts
of ignorance.”
Altogether, a pleasant roaring book,
like a storm of feathers; with—even if
Mr. O’Casey is wrong about Noel
Coward—a chirp or two of sense to
be heard under the uproar.
THREE TUNES FOR NOW
Silver and gold, a metal flows
over the morning s dew-dropped rose.
Now the petals, wet with light,
fold around the untold heart.
Six hours away, the twelve fires burn
to marry the flame in the bud’s cold urn.
The flower that was dumb wider the
moon
shines like a lark in the primrose light,
for the yellow sun is a country tune
that out of the jet-black throat of night
jumped into the mouth of a dandelion.
• - • • • ' A •
All day long, all day long,
winged with filigree and voile,
evil fawned upon the spring,
and, through filaments of crystal,
thrust from the velvet sac its sting.
Now, now is an honest song;
in the frail light I have seen
how the flagging fly and moth
crushed their down with grit of pollen,
and the jungle bee limped home
with its prey, till all the south
smells of seed and honeycomb.
N.S.W.
MARGARET IRVIN.
Reviewed Briefly
Three Ships Came Sailing: A. H.
Noble (Hutchinson). They were the
Pleiades, Bedford and Northbrook,
which were all at one stage or another
commanded by the one captain. The
captain’s experiences and family-life
are pieced together from family-
records and from the stories told
by the captain’s three daughters
reminiscing as old ladies—a device
which gives the book rather too
feminine a tone for its subject-matter.
* * * *
. On Climbing: Charles "Evans
(Museum Press). A member of the
British team that conquered Everest,
and leader of the Kanchenjunga climb,
Charles Evans takes up the greater
part of his book with advice for the
budding mountaineer. This is written
in an easy, readable style, and leaves
not a stone unturned. Towards the
end there are climbing-stories of
interest to the lay-reader.
* * * *
O Beulah Land: Mary Lee Settle
(Heinemann). Intricately - patterned
novel of westward movements of the
American people during the eighteenth
century. The author focuses attention
on many different types (a girl pick-
pocket transported from England, a
religious fanatic who had been sold as
a child into an apprenticeship at sea, a
Virginian officer and his bride). She
brings their stories together in a way
that surmounts the momentary con :
fusions and leaves an impression of
power.
* * * *
History of English Literature:
Legouis and Cazamian (Dent). As Sir
Arthur Quiller-Couch points out in his
introduction, the special interest of this
enormous study by two eminent French
scholars is that it enables us to see
English literature through European
eyes and, though no attempt is made
to stress comparisons, by European
standards. If the verdicts, broadly,
correspond with our own —i.e., that
Shakspeare was a good playwright;
Conrad a good novelist —there remains
an interest, and often an illumination,
in the approach. One curious result
of the foreign viewpoint is that modern
poetry (Eliot, Auden, Dylan Thomas)
is always examined for its intelligibility
—an approach which English criticism
has long thought it prudent to avoid.
Fourteen-hundred pages in one volume,
covering from Anglo-Saxon times to
our own, it is remarkably readable for
so mdjestic an undertaking.


<*§>g
y-yyyyyyyyy-yyyyy.-ys+s^Cr**^**?'.
/y
/ *"jAVx«.
38
’
n
m
§>.
it
'
m
m
■m
Ng
H
ft?
: ; yft ;
ft??:
&
i
ftftft
IS
■'■yy£y
: -
He’s a careful driver. But no matter how well he
heeds the familiar double lines and that ominous
sign “Crest”, he can’t see through a hill. So another’s
thoughtless disregard of warnings can jeopardise
both the careful driver and his passengers. You and
your passengers risk being confronted with double
trouble, too every time you take your ear on to
the road.
It’s a common enough situation, yet one that
should not be common. Would not be common, in
fact, if our roads Were built to cope with the ever-
increasing flow of modern, fast-moving traffic.
Today, every driver har to face danger danger
quite outside his own control - simply our
roads are out-dated. Hit or miss roads, born of
expediency, built without plan for the future. Roads
that lag behind other phases of national develop-
ment. Roads with crests dangerous roads.
Road transport plays such an important part in
our lives that Australian roads should be made as
safe as. possible. What Australia needs is a National
Roads Authority, similar to New Zealand’s. There
a single body,'backed by the necessary funds and
powers, provides the foresight and planning essential
to good road making. An Australian National Roads
Authority could be the first step in bringing our
roads into line with today’s requirements, while
keeping, an. eye*on the future.
What do you think?
CATERPILLAR 4
>N°
O'
[O'
IP*
\V^»
\sP
AMD CAT ARB
REGISTERED TRADE MARKS OF
CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO., U.S.A,
When you think of
better roads, think of
the big yellow machines
that help build them.
CUI
i
••
: -S- s..
mm
CATERPILLAR OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD,, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
DIESEL ENGINES . TRACTORS . MOTOR GRADERS • EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT
