

/
I
SOLERO
SWEET OK DRY
The Bulletin
“DOWN-COAST ” —PAGE 21
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4021
Wednesday, March 6, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 339: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt
THE FABULOUS TREASURES OF HAREWOOD’S LONG GALLERY!
HARcWOOD HOUSE, the historic home of the Earls of Harewood and
of the Princess Royal, stands in two thousand acres of parkland seven
miles from Harrogate, in Yorkshire, and although it is neither the oldest nor
the largest of the great houses of England, none can surpass it in the richness
and splendour of its furnishing and decoration.
The house was designed by the famous York architect John Carr, in close
collaboration with Robert Adam, whose genius is revealed by the magnificent
interiors. They were commissioned by Edwin Lascelles, first Earl of Harewood,
in 1759. Other experts who contributed to the beauty of this stately home were
Thomas Chippendale, who became London’s most famous furniture-maker:
Antonio Zucchi. the Italian painter; and Joseph Rose, the artist in plaster-
shell work. Sir Charles Barry, the architect of the Houses of Parliament, made
additions to the house in 1843.
One of the most impressive rooms in the house, which is open to visitors
at certain times, is the Long Gallery, illustrated here, and which occupies the
west side of the house. It is a room of extraordinary richness and charm
amply illustrating the unity created by Adam and his team of colleagues.
The ceiling is a superb example of Rose’s decorative plasterwork, and the
paintings on it are by Angelica Kauffman, one of the few women who
achieved fame as a painter. She was one of the lirst members of the Royal
Academy when it was founded in 1768.
Some of Chippendale's finest work can be seen in the Long Gallery, an
outstanding example of which is the inlaid library table which stands in the
centre of the room. Here, too, are his delicately carved wall brackets, his
chairs, settees and window pelmets which are masterpieces of craftsmanship.
The family portraits which adorn the walls of the Long Gallery were
painted by such famous artists as Sir Joshua Reynolds, Thomas Gainsborough
and John Hoppner.


STORY WRITING &
FREELANCE JOURNALISM!
LEARN AT HOME
• . . and EARN in your SPARE TIME
There is a big demand for well-written
work. Read these extracts from the letters
of STOTT-Students:—
“My acceptances in the ‘Border Morning Mail’
earned me approximately £5O
“My tally of 65 contributions is not bad for
one 60 years old.”
“I consider your Literary Course the most
valuable thing I have ever invested in.”
Some weeks 1 have had as many as five
acceptances in ‘The Bulletin.’ ”
“Since Lesson G I have had quite a steady
flov: of chequesl” ■
“My writing is a fascinating hobby and brings
in quite acceptable cash.”
100 Russell St., Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh St.,
Sydnpt; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane ; 21 Grenfell
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
'■"““”“0172’ AND MAIL THIS COUPON-'——*
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(5.8.557) AGE
IiOOKHIbNTEK, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text, book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
AN EDITOR TELLS
John Lardner has been taken to task
for writing in the “New Yorker” that
“the entire Australian press resembles,
in content and manner, the New York
tabloid press,” though not in “a
certain callow gravity,” and “maudlin”
attitude to girls, athletes in particular.
“Entire” is, of course, an exaggeration.
The American was in Melbourne for
the Olympic Games, and his hostile
verdict must have been influenced by
daily doses of the “Argus,” which, just
after he went home, died in a litter of
pathetically suggestive photos and
funnies. But here is Victor Courtney,
with forty-odd years’ experience of
Westralian journalism, racily recorded
in All I May Tell (Shakespeare Head
Press), justifying his conversion to the
new journalism on the score of
necessity.
Beginning with the purchase of a
small Perth weekly for £35, and mak-
ing a success of it as a very young
editor partly by bringing out a
Saturday-night edition to catch the
crowds coming from theatres, pubs and
“trots”—Courtney put everything he
had and could borrow into the pur-
chase of the “Sunday Times,” for
£55,000, from MacCallum Smith, the
one mean-souled and granite-hearted
.Scot the undersigned has known. In
"these projects, indeed in all his con-
cerns, Mac Smith’s former reporter
had the co-operation of Jack Simons,
a born leader, who, if Labor had given
him the confidence it was to give to
Curtin, instead of being influenced to
his detriment by personal envy and
bigotry, might have become the first
Prime Minister from the West. But on
taking over the “Sunday Times” they
“found it with a dwindling circula-
tion and a shrinking advertising
revenue.” Something had to be done
or the paper would go bung, and they
with it. Not without misgivings they
turned it into a tabloid, with form-
guides, comic strips and all; and in the
early ’fifties, when Simons died and
Courtney retired, the company they
had controlled could claim over a
quarter of a million in substantial
assets, among them 30 country sheets
and their job-printing plants.
Of comic strips Courtney records as
“a bleak truth” that “during the last
ten years” they have been “the
greatest circulation-builders Australian
papers have had.” He shares the
opinion of veterans of the craft that
“the percentage of readers who follow
leading articles and cultural pages is
fractional compared with the eager
hordes who devour comic strips,
mostly syndicated,” and racing stuff.
So he is anything but ashamed of the
robust' journalism to which he was
bred, as Burns was “bred to the
plough.” Though in its worst phase
it could drive the Irish-born engineer-
ing genius O’Connor to self-caused
destruction (Courtney tells the tragic
story admirably), at its best it was a
real force for good. It formed public
opinion and kept it healthily alive ;
urged and secured necessary reforms
and struck hard at what, multiplied,
be they perpetrated by the Parliamen-
tary interest or by the liquor interest,
are now meekly accepted rackets.
l n those days the West had an
abundance of “characters”; and they
we re to be found in legislative halls
and municipal chambers, as well as
clubs, licensed and unlicensed, and
haunts of other men. Courtney knew
many, and his yarns about them help
to make “All I May Tell” very lively
reading. At the head of the odd corn-
pany was “Dryblower” (Edwin Green-
slade) Murphy, a prince of jesters and
jinglers: not only witty himself, but the
cause of wit in others. A. G. Stephens
found his verses “vigorous and human;
they want only better form to be very
good indeed.” Having a second innings
as it were, in print, they are delighting
a generation which never knew the
man, and could scarcely be interested
in the fact that, though Murphy did
more than any other writer to make the
“Sunday Times” and the Kalgoorlie
“Sun” flourishing concerns, whose pro-
prietor was to cut up for a quarter of
a million, he was miserably paid most
of the-time. At the highest salary he
ever got many a typist would turn up
her little nose.
Don’t let it be thought that “Dry-
blower” was afraid of the Boss. Once
when that worthy was making one of
his always-unwelcome visits to the
“Sun” office, he marked a Murphy par.
in proof and sent it back to the author
with a marginal sneer: “When do we
laugh?” Murphy replied by wire: “In
your case, when the necessary surgical
operation has been performed.”
“Dryblower’s” mates enjoyed this even
more than his story of “Possum” Ward,
a bareknuckle brawler, who tele-
graphed the result of a fight to his dear
old mother in Queensland (“Won easy;
seventy-five rounds”); or the one about
Chipper, an undertaker, who had a
racing-club official for brother, and to
whom Murphy introduced a stranger
slow of apprehension or hard of hear-
ing. Stranger: “Are you Mr. Chipper
the starter?” Murphy: “No, he’s Mr.
Chipper the finisher.”
Reading this book again, an old
friend marvels at the busy life Courtney
led and the crowd of acquaintances
he contrived to make. He heard
fifty death sentences passed (though
not on any of the acquaintances), and
took delivery of nearly as many writs
for libel. One was from “a man much
in the public eye,” who suddenly with-
drew it on learning that he would have
to go into the box. Nearly twenty
years afterwards an old lady, met in
London, told Courtney why —“He was
a bigamist, my dear; and I am the
woman he bigamously married.”
About the same time as this experiment
in lawless law Courtney was at a
Government House ball when a lady
shot her gentleman friend. The
verdict? Accidental death.
Courtney has known all the Perth
Premiers, from Forrest to Hawke, and
all the Prime Ministers except the pre-
Fisher lot. He has something fresh to
say about the whole collection, and
his judgments are scrupulously fair.
In fact, his book is uncommonly
interesting from cover to cover. The
one thing wanting is an index, and two
men who spent part of their lives in
W.A. might with advantage be added
to the gallery of portraits in future
editions: Kingsley Fairbridge and H. C.
Hoover —“Hail Columbia” Hoover to
the “Bulletin” of the day, unconsci-
ously prophetic.
J. E. Webb.
VISITORS
I had just put my hook aside
and almost closed my bored blue eyes
when, washed by a tide of midnight,
my window floated wide.
Then five long-legged women stepped
inside
{with sheer black stockings to their
thighs ) ;
their teeth were white as the seafoam,
their breath .was choked with sighs.
I stretched out five of my fingers
and took up my book once more.
There were seven long-legged women
went out through the closed door.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.
A Sydney Businessman
There is a strange commercial world
where strong men play jokes on each
other with trick golfballs ; where it is
nothing to find yourself one day in
New York and the next in Paris or
London acquiring, over coffee and
cigars, fabulous contracts ; where it is
possible to speak in one breath of
Botticelli’s “Primavera” (surely the
most civilised painting in the world)
and in the next, with equal reverence,
of the sale of two-million tubes of
shaving-cream: and it is of this strange
world, which a mere literary gent, is so
seldom privileged to enter, that Mr.
George Patterson, chairman of Aus-
tralia’s largest advertising agency, gives
us many pleasing glimpses in his Life
Has Been Wonderful (Ure Smith).
Perhaps the most amusing of his
golfing stories is that of the stuffed
crows. Apparently American golfers
—always, like other innocents abroad,
finding it easier to believe fiction than
fact—could never believe that Aus-
tralian crows steal golfballs ; and one
A 1 Craigie, a soap man, was instructed
by the Blue Mound Country Club of
Milwaukee, when he was about to visit
Australia, to bring back proof of this
avian eccentricity.
It was an off-season for crows at
the time, so I arranged with Lyster
Ormsby, a taxidermist, to secure a.
stuffed crow mounted on a stand
and carrying a golfball in its mouth.
I then engaged Harold Cazneaux,
the celebrated photographer, and
with others we went to Killara Golf
Club, where Cazneaux took some
astonishing photographs of the
crow “in action.” One of the most
remarkable showed .the crow, just
visible in dense grass, dropping a
ball into a nest which already con-
tained a fine collection. With great
glee A 1 Craigie took these photo-
graphs to America, where they were
considered unique and hung on the
walls of the Blue Mound Country
Club until it was destroyed by fire
some years later.
It may be partly because he has
fallen into the businessman’s habit of
telling “good stories”—and he tells
some very good ones —that Mr.
Patterson is weak on detail in this
autobiography. He has all the space
in the world to tell us how he did the
wrong thing at an English weekend by
getting up as early as nine-o’clock and
going for a walk (“Who was that
prowlin’ round the grounds this morn-
ing?”) but none for his childhood, little
for his youth, still less for his soldier-
ing life in World War I (this may be
modesty). His private life, if any,
remains totally private and no hint, no
faintest whisper of scandal or ruthless-
ness in business has ever reached his
ears.
On the other hand, George Patterson
is a man of wide interests and, where
he does pause to give a detail or two,
usually has something worth while to
record. He introduces us to an Aus-
tralian artist, new to this reviewer:
Arthur Baker Clack, who lived in
Paris and died in Kent in 1955 —“His
landscapes and still-lifes had great
strength of design and vibrated with
pure color and light, reminiscent of
Van Gogh.” He describes an incredible
day out with George Lambert; George,
as was his way, showing-off the whole
time. He looked after the advertising
for “The Bulletin’s” “Billy Book”
(Low’s cartoons of W. M. Hughes);
and, when he was doing the advertising
for “Art in Australia,” hobnobbed
with Sydney Ure Smith, Bertram
Stevens, Leon Gellert, the Lindsays
and —she was a shareholder in that
fine magazine—Melba.
He saw Dempsey beat Firpo in New
York (when, he recalls, the pressmen
helped Dempsey back into the ting
after Firpo had knocked him through
the ropes: for which Dempsey should
have been disqualified). He was
interested in the productions of Gregan
McMahon and Dr. Raoul Cardamatis
in Sydney little-theatre. He saw some-
thing of Hitler’s Germany. He met a
marvellous Frenchman who persisted
in calling the Great Australian Bight
the Great Australian Bitch —and very
well misnamed, too. He has a good
deal to say about Sydney commercial
radio and some people named Dyer
and Davey. And, last but not least, he
has fished for trout —for a change from
golf, tennis and mountaineering in New
Zealand—in the Geehi, the Snowy, the
upper Murrumbidgee and the
Goodradigbee beyond Brindabella.
Another long Walker
The world has closed in a great deal
since the days of Marco Polo, but it
is still surprising how people like Peter
Pinnev can walk and hitch-hike
practically without money through
what must seem to the stay-at-homes
inaccessible and uninhabited parts of
the world, finding roads there, and
people living liveable lives —as is
demonstrated once more in Handles of
Chance, A Journey From the
Solomon Islands to Istanbul, by
Nicholas Wollaston (Cape).
Mr. Wollaston is an Englishman who
served in a minesweeper in the East
Indies during the war, and afterwards
was in the crew of a sailing-ketch that
went to the Solomons. From there he
came to Australia, hitch-hiked from
Sydney to Adelaide, and got a job on
a South Australian station burying
dead sheep, from which he graduated
to sweeping the shearing-shed, baling
the wool and weighing the bales.
Then, invited to join an expedition
to climb in the Karakoram Himalaya,
he sailed to Bombay and, the Kara-
koram offer falling through, he and a
young officer of Engineers joined at
Delhi to climb in the Himalaya of
Lahul, to the north of Delhi; and for
£9O each they had seven weeks’ climb-
ing and walking 'p the mountains and
the snows and the glaciers, their best
effort being Gepang, 19,259 ft., an extra-
ordinarily beautiful mountain, as
appears by the color-photograph
reproduced in this book, all flaked with
snows like delicately-tinted ice-cream.
After this he went travelling down
to the eastern coast of India, observing
ancient temples as he went, somewhat
puzzled by the pornographic statuary
that adorns them, especially the Sun
Temple at Konaiak, and falling in love
with a Buddhist lady—a stone one, a
tree-spirit, propping up the triple archi-
traves of a gateway to the stupa at
Sanchi.
He went across India again to the
Portuguese city of Goa, visited prisoners
arrested at, the end of a march to
“liberate” Goa into Indian rule,
admired the atmosphere of the beauti-
ful old place, but considered that
nothing could prevent its ultimately
being taken over—which, he says, will
not make much difference to the city:
But there will come the bustle of
the Indian businessmen and, worst
of all, their politics. So far from
being a pimple on India’s fair face
I think of it as a flower in her hair,
and it will be a pity to see it wither.
All this time he had been awaiting
a visa into Afghanistan, but there were
political troubles. He did get as far
as Swat; then returned and took bus
from Peshawar to Persepolis. The bus-
rides are good. The first driver “took
his seat and, before starting the engine,
he held his hands open in front of his
face for a moment in a brief prayer”;
and rightly so; approaching Fort
Sandeman,
the road, clinging to slopes of sandy
rubble, followed a thin valley into
the mountains as far as a high barrier
which appeared impenetrable. But
there was a bolt-hole, a wicket in
the wall, and the bus popped through
it into the darkness. From being a
ledge scraped out of the mountain-
side the road became a shelf fixed
(<Continued on page 55)


PHONE B 0951
zmms
BOX 2712
OUR EXPERTS RECONDITION
LEATHER TOP COATS
SAFARI JACKETS, SHORT JACKETS
If your leather clothes need a new lease-on-life bring them into Anthony Horderns’ where experts will make your old
leathers new again! We recondition your old leather topcoats, safari jackets, and short jackets, reline and redress
them, replace broken zipps, and supply new belts or collars. Leathers: Dry Cleaning Dept. Ground Floor, George
Street. Don’t forget Sydney’s largest Clothes Hospital, specialising in alterations, invisible mending, dresswear re-
silked, relining, fitting to suits, costumes, coats. We also convert double-breasted coats to single-breasted. Clothing
Hospital, Ground Floor, George Street.
s«
a
%
i
■
ill
mm
m
m
m
ii
r*.
tip
ii
hi
-iii'
m
m
m
mm
l
ct.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, March 6, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4021
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man"
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.O.), Wellington.
THE IRON CURTAIN MOVES SOUTH
PRESIDENT SOEKARNO’S new plan to settle
the internal differences of Indonesia brings abc i A a
situation which observers have shuddered to think
of for years past. He won’t find it easy to carry out
—it is being fought strongly by powerful Moslem
influences—but the very fact that he does intend
to implement it is alarming. Already “a state of
war and siege” has been proclaimed by the military
Government which has taken over control of the
Celebes, Moluccas and Lesser Sunda Islands.
Soekarno has long made it clear that though he
was ready to woo countries like the United States,
which took him to its heart with its usual naive
reactions to Oriental charm and guile, he has been
trending towards Moscow in his policies. His
Ministry has been seeded with Leftism, and he has
shown no aversion to leaving Indonesian defence in
the hands of a Moscow-trained Minister, a matter
on which neither the Army nor some other elements
have seen eye to eye with him.
In inaugurating the Constituent Assembly last
December and starting it on its task of framing the
permanent Indonesian Constitution, he urged on it
the need for a draft which would make it impossible
for capitalism to develop as a system in his
dominions. And in his latest statement, broadcast
on February 21, he announced that Western
democracy was “not suitable” for the Indonesian
people; that, indeed, it was not a “true democracy”
in accordance with “Indonesian ideals.” Then,
haying dwelt on the fact that Indonesia has not had
a single stable Government in 11 years of existence
—some people would be inclined to say that it has
never had a real Government at all—he announced
that he intended to end the present political system
and replace it with a new one based on a Cabinet'
representing all parties and a national council.
This was immediately followed by a proposal
by the leader of the Masjumi Moslem party for a
Cabinet composed irrespective of party and res-"
ponsible to Parliament, but headed by Dr. Hatta,
or a Presidential Cabinet founded on co-operation
between President Soekarno and Dr. Hatta.
None of these proposals is very appetising.
Java has had its “Hungarian” incident and has
not forgotten it if Dr. Soekarno 4 has, as one of the
Islamic journals of Djakarta remarked last week,
“The thousands of victims' of the Communist
Madiun revolt [in East Java nearly a decade ago]
would curse us if we now gave the Communists an
opportunity to achieve power.” “The Times of
Indonesia” declared that the plan, if it operated,
would produce “a gelded Parliament, an emas-
culated Cabinet and a Constitution to which
violence had been, done.” The Communists are,
however, enthusiastic, and they and the National
party of Soekarno appear to be certain that the
move is really a Communist coup which the Presi-
dent will carry out even if it means the exclusion
of all the Islamic and Christian elements forming
the greater part of public opinion.
The whole thing, in fact, looks like a plot
concerted in Moscow. The Kremlin is certainly
involved. x <"The kind of Government which is
envisaged is the same species' of dictatorship with a
large Communist ingredient which was the fore-
runner of Communist dominion in, and of the lower-
ing of the Iron Curtain between, the Eastern
European countries and the West.
Following, as it does, on President Soekarno’s
utterances during his visits abroad, &nd relating it
to the industrial and trade agreements entered into,
it seems certain that the new plan is to pull the
Iron Curtain down between Indonesia and Aus-
tralia and at the same time to surround the British
enclave of Malaya with Communism and outflank
the Indian Ocean and Ceylon, India and the routes
from Europe to this country and the Far East.
It is quite clear that Soekarno’s visits to the
United States and Canada, where he was allowed
to address the legislatures, and to Europe’s Western
capitals, was intended as a softening-up operation
preliminary to the real business of his tour in
Russia and Asia.
From Moscow he and Gromyko, then Deputy
* Foreign Minister, issued a statement in which they
proclaimed the identical views of Russia and
Indonesia on disarmament and the “struggle against
colonialism.” They called for, the recognition of
. Nasser’s complete sovereignty over the Suez Canal
and for the admission to the U.N. of Red China.
From Moscow, he went to Belgrade and from
there—Tito having come into temporary accord
with Moscow—a statement was issued by the
Foreign Ministers of both Powers again demanding
Red China’s recognition. Later Soekarno told the
press that the Yugoslav type of Socialism, charged
to the brim with “revolutionary dynamism,” was
the best form of government for Indonesia, Western
Socialism being “outmoded.”
During his two tours he invited three heads of
States to visit Indonesia—President Voroshilov,
Tito and Mao.
Later, in October, Soekarno paved the way for
his present action by a speech at Bandoeng in which
he said that he had profited more from his tour
of the Soviet countries than from > the one to the
United States and Europe. He appealed for the
burial of the existing 40 political parties operating
in Indonesia and plumped for a single-party system
of government, a “guided democracy” and the
formation of cadres on the Soviet Union model to
help in the country’s development.
The trend now is obviously towards Soviet
ideals, Soviet tyranny and a dive behind the Iron
Curtain which Soekarno will be invited to take so
soon as his Administration is properly honey-
combed.
It is obvious that Australia may soon have a
very large * Communist neighbor, and find itself
isolated by that neighbor from Malaya and the
Indian Ocean routes and its base at Christmas
Island.
It is not a very pleasant prospect when the
view of it is colored with the knowledge that the
Red bloc’s pressure is on in the United Nations to
wrest New Guinea trust territory out of Australian
hands, commit it to the tutelage of Indonesia—
there is no doubt that this would be the next step
after New Guinea “self-government” was estab-
lished—and outflank Australia on the Pacific
Ocean side.
As a measure of defence of the White Aus-
tralia policy, northern development therefore at
this stage calls for a quick survey with a view to
tremendous expansion of population and develop-
ment within the next few years. It cannot be
delayed.
Politicians and Jobs
ALTHOUGH the way of a transgressor is tradi-
tionally hard, the way of a reformed character is
not exactly a bed of roses either! Whether N. S.
Wales Premier Cahill is a transgressor who has
turned over a new leaf or whether he is a lily white
who has only recently strayed from the path of
righteousness is a matter of opinion, but whatever
the answer it can’t be denied that he cops the abuse
both ways. Not so long ago he was being accused
of practising a jobs-for-the-boys policy and of
handing juicy plums to Old Faithfuls of the Labor
movement. Now he is being attacked for not
doing so.
At a recent meeting of the N.S.W. executive
of the A.L.P., harsh words were spoken about the
allegedly new methods of the Cahill Cabinet in
making Government appointments. The appoint-
ment that riled the executive most was the selection
of Captain J. H. Simpson, former harbormaster at
Sydney and Newcastle, to the vacancy on the
Maritime Services Board. Representatives of the
executive had, it appears, urged the claims of
another skipper, but the Premier had insisted that
Simpson’s qualifications for the job were out-
standing.
Apparently it is this idea of choosing a man by
his qualifications instead of by his party-label that
strikes the executive as so novel and un-Laborlike.
In all fairness it must be admitted that they have
reason to be surprised, even if they have none for
being annoyed. Minor appointments to which they
objected included those of Vernon Treatt, former
N.S.W. Opposition-leader, to the Sydney Cricket
Ground Trust, and of Sir Edward Hallstrom to the
Kuringai Park Trust. The complaint implies that
none but Labor men should assist in the administra-
tion of the Sydney cricket-ground, although the
Melbourne cricket-ground seems to survive the
simultaneous presence of Messrs. Menzies and
Calwell at its meetings ; also that Kuringai Chase
would be much better off with another reliable
Labor man on the trust than with Hallstrom, whose
experience is confined to business, philanthropy,
study of wild-life and rehabilitating Taronga Park
Zoo.
It is rather ironical that the executive should
censure Cahill over a Maritime Services Board job;
it was an earlier appointment to that board that
brought him a, storm of non-Labor abuse five years
1952, Cahill’s predecessor, J. J,
McGirr, whose resignation had been foretold so
many times that he at last came to believe it,
informed his Cabinet that ill-health had made it
necessary for him to resign. Several seconds later
his colleagues confirmed his suspicion that he had
been appointed chairman of the Maritime Services
Board. When Cahill spoke last week of Captain
Simpson’s outstanding qualifications he didn’t
mention whether they included farming, pharmacy,
or politics—the three occupations which constituted
McGirr’s training for the post of chairman.
Shortly after McGirr. hoisted his admiral’s
flag at the masthead of the M.S.B. building another
true-blue Labor man became chairman of the Milk
Board. This was Jacky Ferguson, M.L.C., who lists
his hobbies in Who’s Who in Australia as “shoot-
ing, swimming and fishing.” (Wot, no huntin’?)
Fergy was very highly esteemed in the Labor
party. He was president of the Federal A.L.P.,
secretary of the N. S. Wales branch of the A.R.U.
and its Federal vice-president. It is possibly due to
his wide experience that Sydney people pay only
2d. a pint more for their milk than their friends in
other capital cities. Yet outside the charmed circle
Ferguson’s appointment to the £2750 p.a. job
earned Cahill nothing but abuse.
When J. M. Baddeley was appointed Director
of State‘Coalmines he had been a miner and a
Minister for Mines, yet Cahill’s critics claimed that
these two qualifications didn’t count nearly so much
with Cabinet as the fact that he was also Deputy
Premier and rising 70, and that the party wanted a
younger and more active man for that position.
Youth apparently didn’t matter so much in a
Director of Mines; Baddeley was given a seven-year
tenure of the job, although already beyond the
public-service retiring-age. A somewhat different
value was placed on the statutory retiring-age in the
cases of Railways Commissioner Winsor and Chief
Fire Commissioner Thomas Januarius Smith—both
originally Labor appointees, but who showed an
tmreasonable tendency to think for themselves
instead of humbly toeing the party-line.
Another Cahill Minister whose qualifications
impressed Cahill was F. J. Finnan, Minister for
Labor and Industry until redistribution robbed him
of his Darlinghurst seat and the electors of Albury
refused to take him at his own valuation and give
him a new one. Finnan’s plum wasn’t thrown to
him hastily. His name was first canvassed as
successor to J. M. Tully, himself a former Minister,
as Agent-General in London, and there was also
talk that he might get the nomination for Dulwich
Hill on the elevation of Conservation Minister Weir
to the Industrial Court, an appointment that was
being barked around town before the 1953 election,
but which wasn’t made until the Government was
back safe, though minus Finnan. Weir’s seat
eventually went to Cliff Mallam, Cahill’s friend and
unpaid advisor on transport, and the London post
to another Labor politician, F. P. Buckley, M.L.G
For Finnan there was the chairmanship of the
Hunter District Water Board at £2750 p.a.
It’s to be hoped the recipients of all these
appointments were duly grateful. The press and
public weren’t. Cahill copped abuse from all sides.
Criticism ranged from mild suggestions that some
of the men appointed weren’t the best available to
outright cries of nepotism, jobs-for-the-boys and
spoils to the victors —or, in the case of Finnan, the
loser. It was at this time that Cahill remarked with
unconscious humor that his Government “would
not debar a man from appointment to high public
office merely because he was a politician.”
Recent criticism has been confined more to
rumblings from Phillip-street over some of the
choosings for judicial posts and to charges of stack-
ing the public -trusts with Labor nominees. Still,
apart from Weir, only one new judge has been a
politician, and he was a Liberal. Even this didn’t,
save Cahill from criticism, especially as Labor put
up a namesake of Richardson, J., for his old seat,
Ashfield, and won it—though only to lose it again
eight months later.
As to nominations to such bodies as the Sydney
Cricket Ground , Trust, National Park Trust,
Kuringai Trust and so on—these can’t be regarded
as jobs, although they carry minor perquisites such
as free passes, social prestige, occasional use of
motor-launches, holiday cottages and so forth.
Chickenfeed really; no self-respecting jobhunter
would think twice of them.
The truth is that the bottom fell out of the
job-market shortly after the Finnan appointment.
The atmosphere engendered by the Doyle-Arthur
inquiry, the Liquor Commission, the Studley-
Ruxton case and the Press Gag Act was not
favorable for handouts, even if Cahill, with his
strong regard for qualifications, had been
approachable. Moreover, the Evatt faction on the
present executive has been waging a hot-and-cold
war against him for a long time, and it is doubtful
whether, even if he had kept on giving the jobs to
good Labor men (with the necessary qualifications,
of course), they would have approved his picking.
The moral of all this is that you can’t please every-
one and you can seldom please anyone. How Cahill
must thank his lucky stars he rules the roost in
Macquarie-street and not at Westminster, where,
among other odd chores, he’d have to appoint
bishops!


THE STRANGER PETROGLYPHS OF EVATT ISLAND
[Thor Heyerdahl, the Norwegian explorer who organised the Kon-Tiki expedition, claims to have solved the mystery of the great petroglyphs, or massive
stone figures, on Easter Island. He acquired an Aku-Aku, or guardian spirit, after which he was admitted to the secret caves of the island.]


PLAIN ENGLISH
Labor Seeks a New Look
The announcement that the A.L.P. is
beginning a campaign to sell itself to the
electors has an unusual touch of humility
about it. Hitherto .the assumption has
always seemed to be that the Labor party
is the party of the worker, and that any
wage-earner who doesn’t recognise this
fact and vote accordingly should have his
head read.
The loss of four Federal elections in a
row has apparently made the party-bosses
fear that the word “Labor” has lost some
of the old magic that used to lead the
faithful to vote for it in droves without
thinking to question its policy or even
worrying whether it had one. And
although the A.L.P. professes to regard
the Democratic Labor party as being
almost beneath contempt, there is little
doubt that the showing of the D.L.P. in
the Burwood by-election and the decision
of the Anti-Communist Labor party in
Tasmania and South Australia to affiliate
with it on a Federal basis have some bear-
ing on the sudden resolve to start a public-
relations drive.
According to Leslie Haylen, who is to
direct the campaign, the intention is to
“present Labor in its true light.” Anyone
who thought that the Kilkenny-cats
squabble that has been raging in the
Labor backyard since before the Hobart
conference had already done that is
mistaken. The party’s true role, it
appears, is to be “a great third force in
politics, having no time for the tyrannies
of Communism or the brutalities of cost-
plus, monopoly capitalism.” Much time
is to be spent getting this message through
to the elector through A.L.P. local
branches. In addition there’ll be radio-
talks, newspaper articles and pamphlets
giving Labor’s viewpoint on topical
questions.
If Haylen wants to get Labor’s message
through to the people and win back their
votes he’ll 'have to do better than he did
with his last pamphleteering venture.
During the 1949 election-campaign the
member for Parkes edited “Tracts for the
the Times,” the avowed object of which
was to “let the people know the ..truth.”
Associated with him, he said, were
“Labor journalists, lawyers, reformers,
university students, trade-union
secretaries, and plain people handy with
the pen who are incensed at the current
conspiracy against truth. They will write
on subjects which will make them burn.”
The subject which made ’em bum in
the first of these tracts was the Professor
Hytten unemployment-pool which,
Haylen asked his readers to believe, had
become Liberal-Country-party policy and
which would mean, if Menzies won the
elections, “eight out of every hundred
Australians must starve,” or, as expressed
elsewhere in the pamphlet, “the Liberals,
behind the scenes, are committed to a
policy to sack eight in every hundred
workers in Australia.”
That sort of “truth” was tendered by
Haylen as his contribution towards win-
ning the 1949 election for Labor. Judging
by the way they voted the electors didn’t
believe it, and subsequent employment-
figures have justified their judgment.
Haylen will have a personal interest in the
success of his New Look “Labor”
pamphlets. The Assembly electorate of
Burwood is right nextdoor to his own
Federal seat, Parkes, in which his majority
has never been large, even in times of
Labor popularity.
Forgotten Pledge?
[From “Mugga Way”]
What ultimate safeguards' are proposed,
when the Government parties finally
reach some decision on the separation of
the central bank from the Common-
wealth trading and savings banks and on
the modification of rales about special
accounts, to ensure that the private
trading-banks are protected against the
“back-door” nationalisation which is
always naggingly in their minds? The
private banks know that a Labor Govern-
ment (far off though one seems at the
moment) could and probably would set
to work to achieve the declared objective
of nationalisation. As Mr. Menzies
recalled in his 1949 policy-speech, Labor’s
attempted destruction of the banks had
been accompanied by the declaration of
Labor Ministers that “when we’ve
scrambled the eggs, you can never
unscramble them.”
It was that same speech of Mr. Menzies,
of course, which included a ringing
pledge which has not been fulfilled.
When the Federal executive of the
Liberal party went to Canberra the other
day to discuss the next election cam-
paign, it was that pledge which was
recalled forcibly to Mr. Menzies’s
memory, and it was suggested that the
campaign might revolve around fulfil-
ment of it, even at nine years’ distance
from the time of its making. Mr. Menzies
said to Australian electors at Canterbury,
Victoria, oh November 10, 1949,
we propose to introduce a bill to amend
the Constitution by making it impossible
for such Socialist legislation [the Bank
Nationalisation Act] to be passed in future
without your approval given at a
referendum.
That pledge may have been forgotten
by many of those who heard or read it.
It has not been overlooked by the banks,
nor, undoubtedly, by the Prime Minister.
When inquiries have been made con-
cerning it, the usual thing has been to
suggest, without giving any y specific
reasons, that the lawyers have found
difficulty in drafting a watertight
amendment. This may be so. Lawyers
can always find difficulties if they wish to
do so, and there is ample evidence that
what appears to be the most explicit
sentence in the Constitution has provided
the most fruitful field for legal argument
and legal costs. Nevertheless, Mr.
Menzies, himself a Constitutional lawyer
of distinction, must have studied the
matter closely before he committed him-
self to the pledge seven years ago, and he
could probably sit down today to write a
draft-amendment which would coyer the
case and meet all or most of the
objections. . .
The facts are, as the executive reminded
him in plain language, that the promised
bill has never been introduced, that the
banks are still in possible jeopardy, and
that no clear explanation has ever been
offered to the electors for failure to ful-
fil the pledge.
It seems possible, therefore, that a
referendum on socialisation may be a
factor in the campaign next year, and
that the pledge of 1949 may prove a
means of putting Labor on a spot in
1958 and forcing it to declare itself in a
manner that, without all its other current
handicaps, would prove electorally
devastating to it.
New Guinea's Future
Nothing it has ever done has been more
calculated to bring the United Nations
into contempt than the General
Assembly’s call on Australia, N.Z.,
Britain, France and Belgium to fix the
time-limits for the attainment of self-
government or independence by trust
territories.
This resolution was actually carried
by 44 votes td 14, with 17 abstaining
from voting and five absent. The British
and French in Africa were peremptorily
ordered to carry out the instruction at
an “early date.” The Assembly was not
so drastic with Australia about the
New Guinea Mandated Territory, which
is just as well. This is territory inhabited
by tribes so numerous that there is
scarcely one language among the dozens
spoken which is common to the denizens
of the whole of any 100 square miles.
Most of the country knows no civilisa-
tion outside the sparse stations-run by
white men. Thought is so primitive that
English has to be simplified in order to
produce understanding of the most
elementary ideas.
By dint of the expenditure of very con-
siderable sums (provided by the Aus-
tralian taxpayer) a few parties have been
brought-up educationally to high-school
standard. The majority have the
intelligence-quotient of a child of ten.
In a word, New Guinea, with its
million population (mostly half-naked),
has no cohesion,, no patriotism, not the
slightest conception of what a national
Government is, much less the qualifica-
tions to run one. Most of it hasn’t even
a pair of trousers.
The measure of N.G.’s power to be
independent is shown by the fact that its
total area under crops is about 205,000
acres —nine-tenths under coconuts. Its
total exports are worth about £A6,500,000
a year, or a little over £6 a head of
population.
New Guinea has no heavy industry or
locally-owned means of transport, and if
the 10,000 whites who inhabit it \vere
to leave, it would sink instantly into
barbaric chaos.
Giving the area self-government in the
next 25 years would be the equivalent of
putting an infant out in the snow,
or perhaps, in the light of the
covetous Communist eyes which are cast
on this doorstep to Australia, of throw-
ing it to the crocodiles.
But this, thanks to the view of the
Arab bloc and the Soviet Union, is what
this country must do in the names of
liberty and humanity.
Mr. Casey put it mildly when he said
that the resolution was “an example of
the irresponsibility with which certain
members of the U.N. approached ques-
tions relating to people who did not
govern themselves.”
Actually, the move wasn’t dictated
by any desire for the welfare of New
Guinea inhabitants. Jt was merely
another facet of, the cold war against
British-speaking countries by Moscow
applied through the dupes whom it keeps
hypnotised with the word “colonialism.”
If Australia did the sensible thing it
would annex New Guinea, which is part
of its own geographical system and
governed in harness with the Australian
territory of Papua, and make it part of
the Commonwealth.
>
Local-authority Finance
The method of using committees in local-
governing' bodies has v made it difficult,
'if not impossible, for a ratepayer to get a
fair idea of the financial circumstances of
his local-governing body.
Today council and .shire committees
carry out all the discussions of importance
in secret, with the stated intention of
expediting business, and, of course, the
local press is unable to report to its
readers what is going on in the council.
The fact that all the people outside the
local-governing body have no clear idea
where their council- stands financially
suggests that a tightening of local-
go vemmenU legislation in some States is
urgently required.
In Queensland many local-governing
bodies do so much of their business in
committee that when the monthly meet-
ing comes around items are moved,
seconded, and carried in such a complex
air of mystery that the simple motion
carried could be a decision to lop-off the
ears of every second ratepayer and the
ratepayer wouldn’t be any wiser until the
shears arrived.
The committee form of local-govern-
ment is often a subterfuge to keep dis-
tasteful subjects, including the ratepayer,,
in the dark.
Moomba Goes On
Only two months after the Olympic
decorations were taken down, Moomba
masks and bunting are , up again in 15
city blocks in Melbourne for the carnival
which began on March 2 and ends on
March 1.1.
Whpn some citizens suggested a
carnival of art and sport during the
usually idyllic weather in March, Mel-
burnians were inclined to regard them
as light-headed; but the protagonists
went ahead, and this third year have had
less trouble in getting official and busi-
ness quarters to dub-up.
The City Council’s £lO,OOO grant, given
by the younger businessmen who have
been swiftly ousting their elders in recent
elections, is the cornerstone of Moomba’s
finances, but it gets invaluable help from
organisations and dominant shops like
Coles and Myer’s in the use of labor and
materials.
Almost every event at Moomba is free:
almost all the concerts, operas (“Carmen'’
and “Aida”), ballet (Act II of “Swan
Lake, “Prince Igor” dances, “Peter and
the Wolf,” “Snow White” and, others),
carnivals, much of the drama and some
of the sport:
The V.R.C. has put on another
Moomba Cup, the Henley pageant on the
Yarra changed from Spring to Moomba,
and the “Herald” aft show, which runs
along almost all the footpaths of the
Treasury Gardens, also has been put
back for it. This outdoor show is,a
magnificent sucpess, both in sales for
artists and in public interest, and it is
inexplicable it has not been imitated in
other capitals at least.
The programme has grown each year,
and the Moomba carnival now seems
established with a permanent, unpaid
* committee, chiefly City Councillors; and
Melburnians who watched the decora-
tions going up the first year with some
embarrassment, expecting no doubt to be
kissed by itinerant musicians and folk-
dancers, now see them with pleasure.
Migrants 1 Doctors
One of the friendly assurances, given
medical students at Melbourne University
before an examination is, “I don’t want
to find out what you don’t know. What
I want to discover is how much you do
know.”
This is an understanding approach to
a nervous young student of what must
always be the most inexact of all sciences,
and intelligent, too, since a medical
student’s ignorance in his first years is
enormous.
It is therefore comforting to those who
regard as an injustice the failure of the
vast majority of European migrant
doctors to gain certificates to practise in
Victoria to be assured that the Bolte
Cabinet is dickering with the idea
of a University board to test the New
Australian doctors, or, at least, a board
with a leayening of University men.
Only eight of 102 applicants to the
Medical Board were given certificates
under legislation passed last March which
was designed to admit competent
doctors; the board complained it was
limited by the Act to admitting to prac-
tice only those doctors who had special
skills.
The admission to practice of doctors
speaking European tongues is regarded
as urgent in Victoria, which is absorbing
a substantial part of the migrant intake,
and the delays qualifying them have
naturally aroused misgivings, especially
among the migrants.
A simple test by the highly experienced
University faculty should soon determine
what the European doctors know, pro-
vided some allowance is made for the
fact that many have not been practising
anything more in recent years than
scrubbing floors and driving trucks.
POSITION CLEARER
[By “Ek Dum”]
HTHE first real steps to resolve the Israeli
situation came from Lester Pearson,
Canadian Minister for External Affairs,
when the U.N. Assembly met to deal
with the gleeful resolution for sanctions
put forward by the Asian-African bloc,
which has seemed to hold the initiative
throughout in the matter and to be deter-
mined on Israel’s destruction.
Mr. Pearson proposed that upon an
Israeli withdrawal from the occupied
Gaza Strip and the Akaba positions, the
U.N. should take over to the maximum
possible extent the civil administration
of Gaza ; that a special commissioner of
U.N. should police the scrupulous observ-
ance of the 1949 armistice agreement;
that the U.N. Emergency Force should
be deployed on the demarcation-line
between Israel and Egypt; and that there
should be no interference with innocent
passages through, or any assertion of
belligerent rights in the Straits of Tiran
at the entrance to the Akaba Gulf or in
the gulf itself.
The Arab countries were considerably
chagrined by the Pearson plan, more
especially as it was accompanied by a
remark about “the status of the Gaza
Strip as an area not belonging to’ the
sovereign territory of any neighboring
State, any arrangement for its administra-
tion must/be considered as an interim
measure pending .final agreement as to
its proper disposition.”
Since, historically and by its position
as an enclave, it belongs to Israel, and
has no use or interest for Egypt save as
a springboard for commando raids, the
Arabs are naturally ready to oppose this
viewpoint about it to the limit.
However, as Mr. Pearson pointed out
and as the U.S. State Department
apparently saw, a “point of no return”
was rapidly approaching in the relation-
ship between the U.N. and Israel; a
point at which the U.N. would either
have to use force or sanctions against
Israel —which it would have found it
impossible to do in the state of world
opinion and its own moral situation in
the matter—or climb down and admit
its inability to discipline even the smallest
state on earth.
At the weekend the substance of Mr.
Pearson’s suggestions became a rather
nebulous U.S. plan—it had to be a
plan or the new rulers of the world would
have nothing to do with it. Israel agreed
to withdraw, subject to the apparent
conditions. U.N. troops were to take
over indefinitely, the force of the
arrangement being backed by the U.S.
and France’s joint guarantee that the
agreement would be carried out
effectively.
Seeing that Mr. Hammarskjoeld has
ruled, and Mr. Dulles has hitherto
accepted, the theory that U.N. troops
remain on Egyptian territory only by
Egyptian consent, the arrangement come
to was either a complete reversal of the
rulings hitherto or an admission by the
U.N. and the United States that Egypt
has no rights of sovereignty over areas
in which the Egyptians claim to be
sovereign. A very large party in the
(Continued on next page)


Israeli Parliament were suspicious of the
whole business.
The Ardb-bloc countries on the day
of the agreement with Israel, and follow-
ing an attack on the Pearson plan by the
Syrians and Jordanians, who proclaimed
it “pro-Zionist,” held a meeting of Kings
and Presidents in Cairo. This gathering
solemnly demanded an unconditional
withdrawal by Israel behind the 1949
armistiee lines ; aftd determined to uphold
the rights of Arabs living in Israel to
assert “the Arabs’ sovereignty over Arab
territories and their territorial waters” —
which means in Arab theory sovereignty
over Israel (which must be destroyed)
and its approaches. They agreed to fight
for compensation for Egypt for the losses
and damage caused by the British-French
invasion ; to “condemn British aggression
against Yemen and assume solidarity
with Yemen against this aggression”
(which, of course, has been a complete
myth); also, to “support the Asabs of
Algeria in their struggle for independence
against France.”
Nasser appears as usual to have domi-
nated the meeting and dictated his needs.
At the weekend, what seemed the
final stages of the crisis had developed
into a new crisis. The hedging of Mr.
Dulles on the question of access to the
Gulf of Akaba (when questioned by the
press), the Egyptian definition of its
view that U.N. troops would occupy
Gaza only to supervise the withdrawal
of the Israelis and the return of the
Egyptians and that the Tiran entry to
the Akaba Gulf was “Egyptian territorial
waters,” strengthened the Israeli party of
Opposition to the point at which the Ben-
Gurion Government was in danger. And
no doubt all Israelis were suspicious of
U.N. after a sight of its blue-helmets and
polyglot horde of Yugoslav Com-
munists and South American trippers.
The situation on March 4 was again
in the melting-pot and will remain so
until Mr. Dulles and Mr. Lodge, who in
the matter are now openly the dictators
of U.N. policy in the Middle East, can
give guarantees that will satisfy the
Israelis.
Meanwhile the canal remains closed
and Europe remains starved for oil and
dependent for it on America —so long
as the Washington Administration cares
to continue its present nebulous attitude.
POLITICAL POINTS
While Indonesian representatives in
New York were doing their best to con-
vince U.N. that they should be given
control of West New Guinea,, their princi-
pals in Djakarta were demonstrating that
they can’t even control the territory
they’ve already got.
• •
The P.M. and other Ministers are
going to attend the Federal House more
in future, business is to be streamlined,
sessions are to be regular in their timing,
and committee-meetings *are to be
scheduled outside Parliamentary sitting-
hours. Are these all signs of TV to
come?
• •
N. S. Wales Parliament re-opened last
week and almost immediately began
arguing who should be chucked out and
why. Morton and Askin asked for the
tabling of papers in connection with the
Waratah Hotel and the Bell and Ball
allegations. Cahill declined to do so, add-
ing that “the word of a crook should not
be used to defame men for political pur-
poses.” When other Opposition members
had suggested that unless the papers were
tabled all Ministers and Labor members
would be under suspicion, Speaker Lamb,
the most impartial (and only) Speaker the
N. S. Wales Assembly has had in the
past ten years, warned members that they
could be expelled if they failed to prove
allegations they made about other
M.L.A.S or members of the public.
In the meantime Deane, Liberal mem-
ber for Hawkesbury, had alleged that a
firm of wholesale butchers was illegally
slaughtering cattle at a horse-knackery at
Rouse Hill. The charge was denied by
the managing-director of the firm, who
demanded an inquiry, whereupon
Mallam, Labor member for Dulwich Hill,
intimated his intention of calling for a
committee of privilege to investigate
Deane’s allegations with a view to
disciplining the member if they proved
unfounded.
The possibility that such a committee,
if appointed, might also be asked to con-
sider Cahill’s description of Ball as a
crook had some A.L.P. men worried at
the weekend, but on Monday Mallam
was still insisting that he intended to
press for a committee. Speaker Lamb
was explaining that his comment had not
been intended to refer to the Premier, and
Opposition members were wanting to
know why the hell not.
• ®
Said Lieutenant - Colonel Samual,
“Damual!”
9 9
There’s nothing impossible about Gair’s
oil-plan. His new company merely has
to buy petrol in Formosa, arranging
dollar accommodation if trans-
port it to Brisbane ; arrange bulk-storage
facilities there ; instal primps at all service-
stations and insist on the proprietors’
co-operation ; win any High Court litiga-
tion that may result; keep its pumps sup-
plied with petrol from its bulk terminals ;
arrange for distribution throughout the
State ; show a profit at the price Gair has
fixed, and keep on doing so until the
other oil-companies either come to heel
or withdraw and leave it in possession of
the whole field. Quite simple, really. All
it has to do is—do it.
« •
Why don’t wall-scribblers leam to
spell properly? In a lanevaay near the
Bulletin office appears the inscription
“Bloddy Evatt.”
• ®
Ebasco has given the N. S. Wales
Government some preliminary recom-
mendations on Government transport.
Minister for Transport Enticknap told
Parliament a few details —a possibility
of saving £450,000 a year by mechanis-
ing payroll-accounting methods ; £360,000
by changing the modification plan at
Enfield yards; £300,000 on operating
costs by further dieselisation ; £160,000
by changes in track-construction for
goods-train running ; £l-’- million through
economies in goods-wagons; £170,000
capital outlay and £23,000 a year by
further changes from trams to buses. It
all sounds very fine. But have the A.R.U.
and other transport unions given their
consent?,
Meat in the import-licensing sandwich,
or, in other words, the official inter-
mediary between Trade Minister
McEwen and any members anxious to
make representations on licences, has
been Reg. Swartz, of Queensland, one of
the Parliamentary secretaries. Swartz has
found the job no sinecure ; he has been
working long hours for little thanks. He
has not been able to do much for his
back-bench customers. They’re calling
him “the abominable no-man.”
• •
Although it is absurd that Communist
Healy should be representing Australia
at an 1.L.0. conference it is even more
absurd for Senator Bill Ashley to pre-
tend to be shocked about it. Healy was
nominated by the A.C.T.U., as are all
Australian trade-union delegates to 1.L.0.
The “Fixer” would raise a shindy if the
Government sought to veto an A.C.T.U.
selection. Back in the days when Ashley
was Minister for Shipping, Healy was
appointed to the Stevedoring Industry
Commission.
9 •
The A.L.P. is planning a campaign to
“sell itself” to the public. Bargain-sale?
9 9
There were no surprises about the new
trade-agreement with the' U.K., which
was signed in Canberra last week with a
minimum of fanfare. It follows the lines
of the heads of agreement signed in
London last November, and replaces
.Ottawa, thus removing the cause of manv
ALLASAME CHINEE!
legitimate grievances. The test of the
new document will be in its operation.
Trade Minister McEwen says it will give
a new measure of flexibility to the Aus-
tralian tariff, and will reduce the cost-
load on primary and secondary industry
because reductions can now be made in
the excessive margin of preference which
has operated against equipment, raw
materials and producer-goods from
foreign countries. It will do this without
cutting into the new minimum margins
of preference for U.K. goods, and without
'detriment to the protection of Australian
industry. McEwen hinted at early action.
• •
After the reported censuring of Cahill
by the N.S.W. executive of the A.L.P.
Joe commented that he’d always worked
in closest harmony with the executive.
Presumably this included the period
when, under pressure from the Federal
executive, the State blokes were playing
musical-chairs.
• ®
“Prophet”: An automatic weather-
reporting station, to be set up in the Ant-
arctic next year, is being tested at Point
Nepean, near Melbourne. It is designed
to meet winds up to .120 m.p.h., snow, and
very low temperatures. Cost of transport-
ing it to the Antarctic is going to be con-
siderable. Why not leave it where it is?
It’d find plenty of Antarctic weather to
report without leaving Melbourne.
• 9
“Mugga Way”: There are reports in
Canberra that the Parliamentary com-
mittee on the Constitution will propose
the deletion of the section which compels
the Senate to be maintained at approxi-
mately half the numerical size of the
House of Representatives. It is believed
that retention of the present numerical
membership of 60, or 10 Senators for
each State, will be recommended, what-
ever the increase of the numbers in the
House of Representatives. Cynical Parlia-
mentarians don’t think there’ll be much
public outcry at a move to keep the
Senate numbers down. They’re more
concerned at possible revival of the cry
for abolishing the place altogether.
• •
“In the ACT”: Some delicate ques-
tions of precedence arose when it was
decided to telescope the usual Prime
Minister’s afternoon reception and the
gatherings held by the President of the
Senate and the Speaker of the Reps, into
one evening soiree the event which
caused some of the Labor boys so much
vocal concern. The precedence tangle
arose when it was asked if the receiving-
line should start with the Prime Minister
and Dame Pattie, followed by the
President and Speaker and their wives.
The President and the Speaker consider
themselves supreme in Parliament House
(they agreed to the Seato gathering,
but their thoughts on the Liberal execu-
tive-meeting with Ministers there haven’t
been revealed), and there were some
anxious consultations. Finally it was
agreed that the invitations should be from
the President and Speaker and “Min-
isters of State.” This, it is understood,
has allowed the Prime Minister to say
graciously that he will leave the receiving
of the guests to the President and Speaker
and their wives. Now everyone, presum-
ably, will be happy—except those guests
who had hoped for champagne but will
have to be satisfied with “the usual
alcoholic refreshments.”
® . •
“Stromlo”: Import-licensing is still a
political hot-potato, and some pending
developments may make it hotter. Staffs
are now forking hard to clear up the
terrible backlog of applications—follow-
ing disclosures of the manner in which
“delay” has been used to discourage per-
sistent applicants for licences and of the
great accumulation of files “awaiting
attention.” It is hoped to have all current
applications up-to-date by March 18 —
by a coincidence, the day before
Parliament reassembles. Meanwhile some
relaxations are being* announced,
although neither the Trade Department
nor anyone else appears to have the
slightest idea of what effects they will
have on overseas balances.
• •
“Uramao”: The National Party of
New Zealand, to face a general election
at the end of this year, has lost one of
its most substantial pillars of strength.
“Big Bill” Sullivan, Minister for Labor,
has resigned from Cabinet and Parlia-
ment to look after the business which
lost its chief when Bill’s son died recently.
Sullivan showed the mettle of his pastures'
in 1951 when faced with the watersiders’
strike, led by a pair of irresponsibles.
Up and down the Dominion he was
howled at by hostile mobs, but he held
the stage and had his say unperturbed.
His triumph was complete when the
sane wharfies went back to work and left
the irreconcilables to shift for them-
selves and Barnes and Hill (their leaders)
to the obscurity from which they have
not emerged since. “Big Bill” eventually
became popular with the men, and no
strike has since occurred on the water-
front.
• •
When the barque Dunedin entered
London Docks in May, 1882, with the
first shipment of frozen meat from New
Zealand —sheep killed at .Totara near
Oamaru, frozen aboard the windjammer,
and which on the London market
realised £800(3, London “Times
enthusiastically acclaimed the event as a
“prodigious feat.” At the celebrations
held at Oamaru, to commemorate the
75th anniversary of the successful open-
ing-up of N.Z.’s great export business, it
was mentioned that the export meat in-
dustry now returns £7O million annually,
a quarter of the Dominion’s national
income from exports. Prodigious!
• •
“Mugga Way”: Some time soon,
according to Supply Minister Beale, a
British rocket will soar 100 miles or more
up above Woomera carrying scientific
instruments; others, lifted by balloons
for six miles, will go up for 50 or 60
miles. It’s all very interesting, but
Canberra is hopeful that it won’t interfere
with the old political pastime of kite-
flying oh both high and 'low planes of
atmospherics.
• •
Ghana, latest independent member of
the British Commonwealth, achieves full
nationhood today. Comprising the
former colonies Gold Coast, Ashanti and
the Northern Territories, with the British
slab of onetime German Togoland tacked-
on, it has an area of 90,000 square miles
and a population of 4% million. Cocoa is
the main export, but gold, manganese,
timber and peanuts are also important.
The country has huge bauxite deposits,
and it is planned to develop them by
means of a vast hydroelectric scheme on
the Volta River, with which Australian
R. G. A. Jackson has-been associated
as special commissioner since 1953. The
Duchess of Kent, deputising for the
Queen, opens Ghana’s first Parliament
today, with Dr. Kwame Nkrumah as
Prime Minister. Australia will be repre-
sented by Air Minister Osborne,


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
'THIS isn’t in Ireland —it’s •at Berowra
Waters, near Sydney; a sign
on the ferry reads: “Shire of Hornsby—
Ferrymaster, Mr. A. E. Foody—Scale of
toll-charges: All vehicles and persons
free.” —“Ailsey.”
❖ *l*
“Ranji”: I wonder if TV will ever
replace entertainment!
❖ ❖ ❖
“Joanne”; At Chatswood (Sydney)
the Australian Trained Nurses’ Associa-
tion maintains a rest-home for retired
nurses, most of whom served in the A.I.F.
-- i n World War I. The association asked
the municipal council if it could reduce
the rates on the property, and the aider-
men came across with a rebate of the
total rate-levy of £6l ss.
♦> ***
“8.A.H.”: A sudden smell of burning
rubber —I stopped the car and had the
bonnet lifted almost before she’d stopped
rolling. After a thorough inspection in
the engine and under the dashboard, I
was relieved to find that all was well.
But the odor was as strong as ever. “It’s
all right, mate,” called a bloke from his
front-veranda near by, “I’m burning a
couple of old tyres up the yard. You’re
the fifth.” Burst of derisive laughter from
my dented family inside the car . . .
Glancing into the rear-vision mirror as
we withdrew I saw the sixth victim rais-
ing his bonnet—and losing no time about
it, either.
"Six-shillings a yard—does that include made and laid ?”
“Becks”: Is the strange bird depicted
in the Blake Prize painting meant to be
k a poppycock?
❖
“King’s”: Sydney Grammar has been
in the character-production business (all
kinds, as witness the story when judge,
counsel and the prisoner .in the dock
were all old Grammar-boys) for a cen-
tury, but didn’t get its coat-of-arms, a
b(ack cross on gold with five stars and
Laus Deo (non-denominational), officially
recognised by the College of Heralds
until 1950. Senior boys in the early days
wore varied ties and collars, chains and
rings, but nowadays they are not allowed
to bodge during school-hours —all must
wear the grey uniform with school-badge
embroidered on the pocket. In the old
days they hadn’t heard of ducktail-hair-
cuts, but senior Grammar-boys, reaching
the higher forms at an older age than
now, cultivated beards —the school maga-
zine remarked of a departing prefect in
1878 that they had “lost one of the
most promising pairs of whiskers in the
school.” A three-month celebration of
this curious establishment’s centenary
concludes with a ball at the Trocadero
on May 30.
, *> ❖ ♦>
“Noon”: We and our neighbor from
the Old Dart became the “Here’s
Hoping” syndicate. He bought the ticket,
and couldn’t understand why the Lottery
girl had written “Ears Open.”
❖ ❖. ❖
“Hal”: In a school for the daughters
of New Zealand’s wealthy a junior group
were studying the work of Florence
Nightingale, and the young mistress
pointed the moral with a dramatic read-
ing of Longfellow’s “Santa Filomena.”
Then she set the inevitable essay, and
this is what one maiden produced:
All night long Florence Nightingale went
in from bed to bed, but the poor wounded
soldiers were so weak that they could do
nothing but kiss her shadow.
“Casca”: Sydney “Sun-Herald’s”
“Fact” says Two-gun Cohen swaggered
out of the Parisian Grill restaurant in
Hong Kong, clambered on to a rickshaw,
and whispered directions to the coolie:
After a swift U-turn, the rickshaw headed
towards the bridge over narrow Shumchun
River, which divides the British Crown
Colony of Hong Kong from the mainland
of Communist China.
If that’s a Fact .I’m a mermaid. The
rickshaw-puller jogged from the restaur-
ant, which is on the island of Hong Kong,
over about a mile of water to Kowloon,
then a further fifteen miles or more over
mountains to Shumchun—all in “a swift
U-turn.” I’d say that coolie was definitely
U.
“Paler”: “Kenyas’s” par, about the
Irish motorist and the Irish traffic-cop (B.
27/2/’57) set me musing ... if there were
no Irishmen in Australia we’d have no
policemen. But following the thought
further I realised we wouldn’t need any.
❖ *l* ♦>
“N.A.8.”: Australians aren’t noted
cheese-eaters, but they’re improving with
age. Before the 1939-45 war one Sydney
wholesale grocery stocked 17 Australian
and imported cheeses ; now it lists 44.
Most are imported, and they include
Camembert, German Limburger, Stilton,
Danish Blue, New Zealand Blue-vein,
Italian Gorgonzola, Swiss Green-herb,
Philadelphia Cream, smoked cheese,
Dutch Gouda and Edam. Three types
come from Greece—Feta, Maloumi and
Telemes. »
❖ ❖ *
“Macquarie”: Those advertising-puns
like the baker’s “The home of the big
loafer,” etc., always seem too forced to
click with me. I prefer ’em when they
are unintentional, and the best I saw
was on a panel-van at the time when our
batsmen were making lefthanded history
at Old Trafford. The sign simply an-
nounced: “Laker’s Dry Spinners.”
❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: Heth’s cartoon of the
stag descending from the wall (B.
20/2/’57) reminds me of a barmaid I
nursed many years ago at a low dive of a
pub on the waterfront. They got rid of
the merry-and-bright customers about
11 p.m. Then the piledrivers would work
on the wharf until dawn wjiile I en-
deavored to get the patient some rest.
Ersatz corn-colored hair, buxom and
very good-humored, she taught me a lot.
“It’s the fumes that make ’em drunk,
Luv, so remember, always eat whilst you
drink.” There I saw my first-and-only
pledge, which she had signed and framed,
on the wall of her bedroom; liberally
adorned with flowers and blue-ribbon
bows, it looked like the work of a child-
artist. In the bar a double-headed
monster (a calf) graced the wall. When the
clients had had enough my barmaid
would tell them so, and the usual argu-
ment would follow. Out would come her
trump-card: “How many heads hanging
up there?” The sailor would gaze
through the haze of uncertainty and say
“Two.” “Well then, that proves what I
say—you’ve had enough!” Then, drily
to me, “Funny thing, when they come
into the bar sober, they never think to
look and see how many heads there are! ”
»»♦ »!♦
“Baksac”: What sort of a father is
“Talon” that he beseeches Heaven to
identify the animal his four-year-old
described as a Noc-Noc (B. 13/2/’57)?
Does the boy have to explain that the
•creature is a saurian, distinguishable from
its close relative the Naddiator by the
tooth that fits into a socket on the out-
side of the jaw and is visible when the
mouth is closed?
❖ ❖ *>
. “Kesem”: Buy a pre-war tourer ; try
unsuccessfully to sell it for more ; use it
lor getting household wood, as did Mr.
Colin Eveans, of Dalljy, Queensland: the
back-seat upholstery will fall to pieces;
the inside lining will protrude; and you
will find a canvas bag full of £17,023 in
Australian and American currency—2l
£ 100-notes, 60 fifties, 537 tenners, and
forty-six fivers, also 651 American twenty-
dollar bills, hidden before 1942, as after
that year all notes over £2O were
withdrawn. But when you do it, don’t
be like Mr. E. and tell anyone—or maybe
you’ve done it and haven’t.
❖ ♦>
“Narumee”: My daughter sucks-in
school-stories as a whale imbibes plank-
ton ; she has outgrown Enid Blyton, but
I scour the bookshops only to re-
encounter the hardy peren-
nials that I uprooted from
my own bookshelves: Angela
Brazil, Elsie Oxenham, and
the rest of the sisterhood
whose characters cry: “Girls!
what do you think? The new
hockey-mistress wears the
jolljest gym-slip you’ve ever
seen!” and discuss their
“chums,” the “hols,” “the
Head on the rampage,” and
the “jolly decent new girl.” Is
it any wonder that my
daughter inquires fearfully
whether kids in England
really talk like that?
❖ ♦♦♦ >l+
“J. 8.”: As the lad on the
motorbike shot past us my
small nephew exclaimed,
“Look, Daddy! A leathery!”
In W.A., teenage lads are
bodgies, with thick desert
(suede) boots, long, ducktail
hairdos, and exaggerated
suits. Leatheries, the motor-
bike brigade, are distinguished
by their elastic-sides, crew-
cuts, and leather jackets with
an eagle stencilled on the back.
(The leatheries look down on
the bodgies. On Scarborough
beach police stopped a
threatened melee between a
gang of leatheries and the
bodgies who have made the
beach their headquarters.)
Squares are the ordinary,
everyday types; and then
there is the “progressive-
dresser.” His desert-boots
are not as thick-soled as those
of the true bodgie, nor is his
ducktail-haircut quite so long.
He wears stovepipe-pants in
rather a bright shade of blue, and usually
a pink shirt. A progressive-dresser I saw
escorting his girl to the flicks up in
Geraldton was wearing a pink shirt which
matched exactly the pink of her frock.
♦£«
“Ardoyne”: Motorcars destroy so
many illusions: the Ballarat (Vic.) County
Court has awarded damages to a travelling
draper for a complaint described in
medical evidence as “housemaid’s knee,”
incurred in a motor-accident.
❖ ❖
“Eureka”: It’s a terrible way of know-
ing, but whether on Anzac Parade oppo-
site Sydney High School or on Hyde
Park comer, you can generally tell when
Sydney’s mounties have been on the job
directing traffic.
+J4
“P.0.M.C.”: “There are 95,800 num-
bers that have not won a first-prize since
1931,” says N.S.W. Lottery director —
and most of them were mine.
<s+
“H.E.S.”: If “Rimutuka” fell for well-
grown seedlings of the double gerbera
(B. 13/2/’57) she deserves to be stung, as
I have yet to see a double gerbera form
seeds.
* * ❖
“Matey”: Popular feeling in the Old
Dart spills over into our N.S.W. Blue
Mountain stork-depot. Time was when
there was a goodly sprinkle of Anthonys,
Clarissas, Edens and an intended
Anthony Eden, who had to be an Edene
(just a slip-up of the stork’s). Suez made
no impact, but as soon as the Macmillans
set-up house at Number Ten, it began—
two Harolds, both great bawlers, a
Cavendish (family-name of Lady Mac’s
ducal kin), and a nice little Dorothy.
Mateship’s a great Australian virtue, all
right, so why not be matey with the
nobs?
+*♦ >&
“Postie”: Apparently insurance com-
panies don’t regard Bung as a good risk.
In a proposal one company asks: “Any
connection with the liquor-trade? 1.
Now? 2. In the past? 3, Intended in
the future?” If there is any connection
a loading of 25 per cent, is added to the
premium.
THE DERELICT
“Sydney Council Works Committee having
been told that seats in Customs House Square
were frequented by derelicts, Alderman Cope
(Labor) asked ‘What is the definition of a
derelict?’”
The status of a derelict
Has Sydney City Council tricked. '
Perhaps a “Labor” politician
Will help us to a definition :
Elected captain of his ship,
He laid about him with a whip
And thoughtfully decided to
Maroon a portion of his crew.
Escaped, they manned new ships, and
made
Incursions on his freights and trade,
Whereon he came ashore and penned
Love-letters to a Russian friend
And odes and songs of all descriptions
In praise of Cypriots and Egyptians.
And so, while he perfects his art on
A certain public seat in Barton,
His crew between distaste and fear
Of being left or coming near,
His craft a drifting desolation,
A peril to all navigation,
The only problem seems to be
Which is more derelict, ship or he.
So, Sydney people, do not stare
At derelicts in Customs-square;
It is more urgent and more meet
To shift one off that Barton seat.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


■"THE “S. M. Herald’s” columnist told
-*■ the, story of a woman who had
broken a rib and injured a shoulder in a
fall in her garden. On Sunday morning
she was sitting up in bed reading her
“fortune by the stars”: “Virgo: You
need well-planned effort with your
shoulder at the wheel, this week . . . you
are in a success-vibration.” What was
not quoted was that the astrological seer
was Granny’s own, in the “Sun-Herald!”
—“dipper.”
“The old sea hasn't changed much in fifty years."
“J.L.S.”: My sister, working in Lon-
don, asked in the staff-cafeteria for her
tea as it came, without milk or sugar.
“No milk or sugar, ducks?” The girl
behind the counter raised an eyebrow.
“Laws, I couldn’t charge you twopence
for that. Give us a penny, that’ll do.”
She turned to her companion. “Did you
hear that? No milk or sugar. Soon they
won’t want the cup. Just drink it out o’
the spout! ”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Dorian”: So pianist Ben Light can
whack-out 1100 notes a minute (B.
27/2/ ’57)? Curious to see if it could
be done, I sat down at the piano and
grabbed the dominant seventh of F
Major: C, E, G, B Flat, C, E, G, B
Flat, C, E, waited till the second-hand of
my watch hit the 60-mark, and played the
chord time after time. I counted in fours,
i.e., on the fourth striking of the chord
I registered “one,” so that my unit of
measurement was 40 notes. Result, after
my arms refused to function any longer:
1600 notes in 26 seconds. That’s faster
than the speed of Light.
• * * +:♦
“D. Hider 8”: Fears are being ex-
pressed in Melbourne by newspapers and
amateur-athletics leaders that if the public
doesn’t give more support to Victorian
Athletic Association events professional
promoters will take over the Olympic
Park and Pool. This because only about
five thousand people attended a very
ordinary programme on a week-night.
Any slackening of interest in amateur
sports always seems to bring a reprimand
to the public. Wonder do the people
who niggle at the public prefer amateur
theatricals, boxing, football, wrestling,
golf and music or —the best. The only
sports where amateurism really appears
to flourish are those in which its bona
fides are suspect.
♦> ❖
“Crow-eater”: Scots’ Church, which
has been one of Adelaide’s landmarks
for over 90 years, has had its last service.
With a history going back to 1865, it has
been sold to the Y.M.C.A.
❖ ♦♦♦ ■ ❖
“G. 8.”: Low’s account (B. 23/2/’57)
of meeting Sir John Lavery and the beau-
tiful Lady Lavery recalls a lovely little
story that she told me when, in 1916, 1
was convalescing at the home of a great
friend of mine and hers, Willie Robinson,
of Streatham. While Sir John was away
in Morocco painting, Lady Lavery had
been invited to some big society do in
London, and on arrival realised that she
had no visiting-card. So she quietly
sidled up to the footman announcing the
visitors and whispered, “Lady Lavery.”
The footman promptly whispered back,
“First door on the right, madam!”
“Charles”: Was interested in that par.
about electric shocks from plastic sheet-
ing (B. 30/1/’57). My nurse daughter
tells me that plastic sheets have been
removed from the beds at the General
because the children in kicking their heels
had been getting shocks. Now I read in
an English paper that my nylon shirt gets
dirty so easily because it generates elec-
tricity and acts as a magnet to dirt.
“Allan B.”: Don’t think you’re dream-
ing when you arrive in Melbourne in a
year or two and come across a 450 ft.
hexagonal tower, like a squeezed-up
Pyramid without a top, where the Joli-
mont railway-yards were. Chinese mil-
lionaires want to build it, at a cost of
four-million; they have a six-months’
option on the site. The plan is for 45-
stories of offices, surrounded by gardens,
with a parking-area for 2000; cars and a
heliport for twelve helicopters, built in
concrete like a silo, and having ten fast
lifts —a tall rival for Sydney’s one-story
opera-pagoda.
+J4 *J4 +J4
“Doynest”: After dangerous talk about
another penny a gallon, 1 noticed a petrol-
“You mustn't dance so close to me, Colonel—your medals are ice-cold .”
company’s radio-ads. were being read
by a voice remarkably like that of a
clergyman : hearing him intone melliflu-
ously that “yesterday, today and to-
morrow—petrol meets your every need,”
or some-such, you half expect him to
add: “The offering will now be received.”
I hope the petrol-merchants won’t be
reduced to passing around the plate.
♦;« ♦>
“Nee”: I handed over the cash for the
gas-biH. The clerk asked politely:
“Would you mind having an extra penny
on your next month’s account?” 1 was
startled into the indignant demand:
“What for?” “Well, you see,” explained
the clerk, with a deprecating grin, “I hit
the wrong key on the register!”
•£+
“Old Crab”: “One-armed priests” (B.
13/2/’57)? George has taken round the
collection-plate for 40 years here, and
says there are still some who think he gets
a rake-off: “A ruddy man’d have to be
one-armed before they’d trust him!”
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Wusslean”: I inherited a round ebony
ruler (B. 20/2/’57) from the previous
occupant: I’ve never been able to rule
a straight line with it. Another relic I
have had to discard is the handsomely-
bound minute-book. My predecessor
wrote a beautiful copperplate to the last;
my own handwriting is barely legible.
The current minute-book is neatly typed.
I’m told legal authorities frown upon the
loose-leaf minute-book, but surely read-
able minutes are preferable to a record
decipherable only by the writer!
❖ ❖ +♦♦
\
“Zend-Avesta”: W. E. Fitz Henry’s
reminiscence (B. 20/2/ ’57) of The
Bulletin’s reception-clerk takes me back
to my first job, reception-clerk at the
Swedish Consulate, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
England, about 1926 - A Swedish lady
came in to discuss passports and left her
beautiful blue-eyed child in my care. The
child smiled charmingly at me and said
something which sounded like “A pen-
sikta.” Not to be outdone I smiled back
and said “ Apensikta ” to her, thinking it
another Swedish greeting, corresponding
with “Hej pa dig” (“cheerio,” or “smiling
at you”). The mother collected her most
beautiful child and went away. The
Consul passed my cubbyhole on his way
to morning coffee, and to prove to him
that I was trying to learn his lingo, I
said “ Apensikta giving him a broad
smile with it. He gave me a puzzled look,
shrugged his shoulders, and continued on
his way. It wasn’t long before his offsider
came out to my cubbyhole and said, very
sternly: “The Consul is angry with you.
Why did you call him ‘Monkey-face’? ”
I went in and apologised ; he saw the joke,
but if that Swedish brat had ever returned
to the Consulate, I would have cheerfully
tossed her out of the window into the
Tyne.
“Learner”: After years of being a con-
tented passenger I acquired some L-plates
and began to acquire knowledge. Some
drivers were kind when they saw the
L very large on my car, but others seemed
to take a delight in showing me what a
jungle I was trying to find my way into.
But on a day when the instructor had
decided to drive me to the station to get
me there quickly, a man in a bigger car
tried to crowd us, so the instructor drove
right up and just stopped at the last
minute. He grinned, and said to me “I
always do that to them. Next time he
sees these signs on a car he’ll give it more
room.”
++♦ ♦** +*♦
“Bo”: The “bomb” parked outside our
suburb’s one-brand filling-station while
the owner shot in to sample the hops was
covered with chalked legends; the one
that caught my eye was scrawled along
the bonnet, the hinged centre-strip of
which was all pitted and rusted: “To
open, tear along the dotted line.”
❖ ❖ +;♦
“Roomee”: Well, someone has taken
Bulletin pars, about simplified spelling
to heart. One of those gigantic organised
picnic-parties descended on our beach,
and tucker was on. “Now then, get into
a queue, folks,” shouted a sweating
helper, and as there was an immediate,
disorderly surge, “Queue, I said!
Q-U-E-W, queue!”
♦> ❖ ♦>
‘Tom Trout” (London): Overseas, one
encounters travel-posters and the like in
which the map of Australia takes on a
profile unknown in Mercator’s, or
any other, projection. One English
artist apparently disdained later-than-
17th-century sources and depicted Tas-
mania as a rather large bump on
Victoria! But I really began- to worry
about the effect of those Monte Bello
tests when, in London, I received a
Christmas-card designed in an Australian
studio which showed our poor old con-
tinent bent and-battered as if a large
horde of bunyips had been rock-’n’-rolling
around the edges.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Fasdean”: Wee letter frae the folk
in Dundee. They’d noted the Christmas
parcel cost 235. 6d. to send. Contents —
cake, tins of pineapple, nuts —would have
cost exactly that in the home-town. Why
add the cost of wrappings?
❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Spenton”: As to audience-remarks
(B. 20/2/’57), at a screening of Walt
Disney’s “Bambi” in 1942, when BambiV
mother had fallen to the hunter, leaving
the four-legged mite to wander through
the forest, tears were being blotted from
the cheeks of the impressionable while
the plaintive sound-track voice reiterated,
“Mummy! Where’s my; mummy?” A
tough voice rose above the hush, “She’s
out with a bloody Yank!”
CANINE CRAFTINESS
“A leading veterinary-surgeon says that the
fast pace of big-city living is causing ulcers even
in dogs.”
Said Bob the Bloodhound : “l haven’t a
worry.
I lead such a placid life.
1 can sock into even the hottest curry
And never get stummick-strife!
At whizzin' wheels I’m no reckless biter;
The kids don’t pull at me ears.
There ain’t a pooch around here politer,
For what do y’ get for bein' a fighter
Except some cheers ?
"For most o’ the day on the lawn I’m
snoozin’ ;
Me tucker is always on time.
The powders they give me I’m never
refusin’,
For good health's no crime.
To be well-bunked and carefree and
victualled,
And goin’ without fear or fret,
Is a life you alecks have always belittled.
But you rush around, and Nearly get
skittled,
So ulcers y’ get !”
Then Frankie the Foxy got up on his
haunches.
Barked he : “What sort of a clot
Are you, vegetatin’, growin’ one o’ them
paunches !
You’ve security—so what?
And, touchin’ on all this tripe you’ve been
airin’,
Which makes y’ sound like a sook —
Well, tell us just this: if so good you’re
v farin’,
Then why the hell are you always wearin'
That worried look ?
“At our ulcers you’re sneerin’; well, what
about ’em ?
Ain’t you got the nous to see
That a clever tyke wouldn’t be without
’em ?
Do you think we want to be
Like yourself, on eternal horse-meat
rations ?
You don’t cotton-on to our scheme.
Ulcers are one of the latest fashions,
So we cultivate ’em with clashin’s and
dashin’s,
And to cure us they’ve got to feed us
lashins
Of beaut, milk, and cream !”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Auckland identity William Welles
(sketched in that New Zealand city by
H. W. Bennett) went to the Antarctic
with Captain Scott in 1901. He bought
the expedition’s 32 dogs in Archangel,
trained them, brought them to Australia,
then sailed south with them on the
Discovery for four-and-a-half years on
ANTARCTIC MEMORIES
the ice. Was consulted recently by Sir
Edmund Hillary regarding the New
Zealand dogs then being considered for
his expedition. Welles’s verdict—quite
unsuitable. Now 88, Bill has been around
the world 25 times, fought with the rebels
in the Peruvian Revolution of 1885, was
in the Canadian North-west Mounted
Police, and later worked for the Hudson
Bay Company—that’s where he learned
how to handle dogs. He was in the
Klondyke rush (but didn’t win any signi-
ficant amount of gold), and fought with
the New Zealanders in War I, on
Gallipoli and in France. Has written
several books and is working on another.
• 9
New president of the Medical Board
of Victoria is' Clifford H. C. Searby,
whose friends call him Henry, a strong-
minded, forthright but usually reserved
specialist-surgeon.
Searby, who was a youngster with the
First A.I.F. in Egypt and prance and a
specialist for the R.A.A.F. in the Second
World v War, has been an honorary at
Royal Melbourne for just on 26 years
(he’s still a consultant), and serves on the
University medical faculty.
'The appointment of this formidable
Fellow at a time when the board is con-
tinuing its wrangle about the admission
of alien doctors to practise in Victoria is
possibly significant.
« •
>
Poorish health has made Sir Ross
McLarty resign the leadership of the
Westralian Opposition, but he will" sit
out his term in Parliament as a private
member. A farmer, now 65, he lives at
Pinjarra (his family settled there in
1839) in the Murray-Wellington elector-
ate, which he has represented in the
Assembly since 1930. Since 1947 he has
put in six years as Premier, and four as
Opposition-leader. Served with the 44th
Battalion in War I, was awarded the
M.M. and commissioned, and was C.O.
of a V.D.C. unit in War 11.
• •
David Brand, who is 45, dons the
mantle of Opposition-leadership in the
W.A. Legislative Assembly. Liberal and
Country League member for Greenough,
Brand was Minister for Works, Water-
Supply and Housing in McLarty’s
Cabinet.
• •
Piping a new admiral on board:
Harrington’s the man, March 10 the day,
when Rear-Admiral W. H. Harrington
takes-over from Acting Rear-Admiral
H. J. Buchanan (retiring) as Flag-officer-
in-Charge, East Australia. Captain
(until next Sunday) Harrington won the
D.S.O. in the Persian Gulf, when he was
in command of H.M.A.S. Yarra. He was
executive-officer of H.M.A.S. Australia
in the Coral Sea show, was at the Guadal-
canal landing, and shared in.many bom-
bardments off the New Guinea coast. In
the latter stages of the war he was
captain of destroyer Quiberon, and in 1948
became captain of Warramunga and the
10th Destroyer Squadron. His experience
was rounded-off in 1952 by a course at
the Imperial Defence College, and after
some work with the Admiralty he came,
back to Australia to command aircraft-
carrier Sydney.
• •
New commandant of Duntroon is to be
Major-General J. G. N. Wilton, a 1930-
graduate who served with the British
Army until the outbreak of World War
11. He was with the A.I.F. in the Middle
East and New Guinea, scored a D. 5.0.,
and went to Washington with the Aus-
tralian Military Mission in 1943. From
1946 to 1951 he was director of ops. and
plans at Army H.Q. ; a couple of years
later—meanwhile having done the
Imperial Defence College course in Lon-
don—he was appointed commander of
the 28th British Commonwealth Infantry
Bde. in Korea. Until recently he was on
the general staff in Melbourne, with the
rank of Brigadier. He is an honorary
aide-de-camp to the Queen.
Another Army appointment is that of
Major-General (also promoted from
Brigadier) L. G. Canet, who becomes
Master-General of Ordnance and fourth
military member of the Military Board
from April 24. Also a Duntroon gradu-
ate (1931), he holds an engineering degree
from Sydney Uni., served in the Middle
East and New Guinea, and has held a
number of staff appointments.
• ®
Sydney Grammar’s present Head,
located within the tradition-soaked stone
of the College-street school, has a fine
crop of silvery-sandy hair which lends
him, at first glance, something of the
venerable air of his surroundings. An
alert carriage corrects this impression—
emphatically ; as Lusby’s sketch suggests.
HEADMASTER
Colin Oswald Healey is 45, slim, on
the short side, with thoughtful grey
eyes, an occasional wide smile, and an
unhurried, neutral sort of English voice.
An Oxford M.A., a senior housemaster
at Christ’s Hospital before he came here
in late 1950 to take-over in the following
January. War-time company commander
in the Oxford and Bucks. Light
Infantry, with a stint of, instructing at
Sandhurst. Second-class honors, athletics-
blue and a half-blue for cross-country
running. 7
Settled again behind a half-acre or so
of desk, he talked pleasantly about the
school’s centenary celebrations, its
building-programme, and trends in
education. The school really opened in
August, he said, but the possibility of
bad weather then, and interference with
the teaching-programme, ruled out that
month for celebrating. March 6 was the
date fixed for the ceremony at the Town
Hall, attended by the Governor-General.
The Governor of N.S.W. would visit the
school on March 8.
A map unrolled on the table showed
plans for long-term building, which will
utilise the limited space without interfer-
ing with playing-areas. The new building
will be for science and technical and
physical training.
• . • \
Westralian University’s first award of
a Gledden Research Fellowship has been
made to E. Patrick Evans, who scored
21 distinctions in the 26 subjects of his
engineering-course. The fellowship is
worth £lOOO and is tenable for one year,
with the option of renewal. Evans will
go to London University College, where,
for his Ph.D., he will research in the non-
destructive properties of concrete.
“K.R.”: Phil Ridings played his first
Sheffield Shield match in December,
1938, for S.A. against Victoria. He \yas
then a tearaway fast-bowler, with no
batting pretensions. Some of S.A.’s best
batting at that time, apart from Brad-
man’s, came from
Phil’s younger brother
Ken, who would prob-
ably have played for
Australia, but lost his
life over the North Sea
as a War-time R.A.A.F.
navigator. After the
war Phil concentrated
more on his batting,
and only three of Aus-
tralia’s great batsmen
(Bradman, Clem Hill
and Richardson) have
made more runs for his
State than he has. He
has been S.A.’s skipper
since Bradman retired,
was.vfor a tyme an Aus-
tralian Test-selector,
and m 1950 went to
N.Z. as vice-captain of
the Australian “second”
team ; earlier he must
have just missed get-
ting a place in the 1948
side to England: it
went to Sammy Loxton,
now Liberal M.L.A.
for Prahran in the
Victorian House. For
some years Ridings had
been the only pre-war
Shield player still in
first-class cricket. In
civil life an executive
of an insurance co.,
now 39, he’s made
this, 1956-57 season his last in big
cricket. ’ ,
, 9 9 |
“Yarraman”: Here, fair go, -New
South! It should, of course, have been
the Victorian, not the N.S.W., Bench to
which George Pape was elevated (B.
27/2/’57). Find your own judges!
©
Back in Sydney after three years in
Malaya with the Department of Public
Works, civil engineer R. F. Campbell, a
1948-vintage Sydney University graduate
who played Rugby Union for the State.
His new job is with Concrete Industries,
managing the pre-stressed division.
>’ • •
On average, the family of Albert
Lionel Harwood, secretary of the Aus-
tralian Council of Woolbuyers and sec.,
too, of the Vic. and S.A. Woolbuyers’
Association, see something of him only
seven months out of the 12. The rest of
the time he’s dashing around Australia
by air, a mode of travel to which he
became accustomed as an R.A.A.F. navi-
gator' in the Middle East, where he
accumulated an impressive tally of ops.
(broken for a spell in 1942, when he was
shot-down). Now, between sorties, he
plays golf at Royal Melbourne, where he
has a limit handicap. He went to Scotch,
WOOLBUYERS SECRETARY
in Melbourne, then to Longerenong
Agricultural College and Melbourne
Tech., had a final sorting of the woollier
parts of his education at Bradford Tech.
(England), and was a woolbuyer in
Victoria for 16 years.
Archdeacon R. E. Richards succeeds
Dr. Riley as Anglican Bishop of
Bendigo. The Bishop-elect is 48, was a
chaplain for five-and-a-half years with
the Second A.1.F., and has been Arch-
deacon of Ballarat for seven years.
JAMES McAULEY, poet and editor of the new
Australian quarterly “Quadrant,” modelled by Prior.
Packing fqr another visit to South-east
Asia and Japan, Ronald Ellery, appointed
last week administrator of the Australia
and New Zealand Bank’s new inter-
national banking department, Mel-
bourne. The new department has
national significance—the growth, of Aus-
tralian exports. Both the old Bank of
Australasia and the Union had sub-
stantial accounts for wool with overseas
buyers. These have been nurtured in
recent years, and the prosperity of the
wool-industry has made the term “over-
seas bureau” an anachronism. Moreover,
the bank’s branches in nearer countries
report an increasing interest by buyers in
Australian exports. Ellery, a youthful 47.
joined the Australasia at Kempsey
(N.S.W.) and was accountant at Brisbane.
He then began his travels, getting finely
groomed for his new job. He was in Lon-
don for a long term, and was temporarily
attached to English banks ; returned to
Australia in 1948 and was packed off to
Japan, Hong s Kong, India and Pakistan,
and last year looked over banking, and
the bank’s V.I.P. dollar-customers, in the
United States and Mexico.
• •
“Jobo”: When veteran English air-
man J. C. C. Taylor was in Australia
he was puzzled on hearing that his host
in an outback area had once been a
“jackeroo.” The word took his fancy,
apparently, and in a note from the U.K.
he says that he has officially recom-
mended “The Jackeroo” as the name for
a new light aircraft being developed in the
Old Dart.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, John Craddock, captain o£
Footscray’s football-premiership sides of 1913,
1919 and 1921, when Footscray played in the
Association.
In Sydney, at 69, R. O. Beale, one of the
founders, in 1937, of the first Police Boys
Club and, earlier, of the N.S.W. Society for
Crippled Children. He was also a director of
the International Society for/ Crippled
Children.
In Hobart, at 80, Frank Marriott, who was
elected to the Tasmanian House of Assembly in
1922 arid sat until 1946, when he retired; he
had lost his sight in France in 1917. Two of
his sons are in Parliament: - Senator John
Marriott (elected 1953) and Fred Marriott,
Liberal M.H.A. for Bass since 1946 «nd
Chairman of Committees in the Tasmanian
House of Assembly since 1955.
In Sydney, J. Lome Dargan, life-member
of the North Sydney R.L. club, arid associated
with the club' from its beginnings. With
Harry Sunderland, he managed the 1929-39
Kangaroos. '
At Geelong (Vic.), Edmund R. Hurley, one
of that city’s best-known medical men.
In Sydney, Lady Maughan, widow of Sir
David Maughan and daughter of Sir Edmund
Barton, Australia’s first Prime Minister.
In Melbourne, at 68, Donald Robert McLean,
former Assistant Director-General of Finance in
the . P.M.G.’s Department, Melbourne. t* e
retired in 1953 after 47 years with the Com-
monwealth public service.
At Wellington (N.Z.), at 76, Frank Crowther,
who had 57 years of music in the show-
business, beginning with Pollards’ Opera Co.
when he was 18, and including 28 years with
Fuller’s as pianist and musical-director.
in Melbourne, at 64, Roy Bellgrove,
prominent figure in the Australian wine-indu.su'>'
for more than 30 years. Victorian manager ot
Penfolds.


IN THE EYE OF THE BEHOLDER
* ~ /
pAp Lk)CK ; CouuV^T
fir y<?o <n 7 Eh?


ABORIGINALITIES
TN an A.B.C. quiz-session, listeners
were asked why Alice Springs is so
often called “The Alice.” The answer-
given was that before the town was
built the springs were known as “The
Alice Springs,” and people said “The
Alice,” just as one says “The Diaman-
tina” or “The Murrumbidgee.” Possibly ;
but I’ve always thought it was one of
those popular abbreviations common in
. outback Queensland. Charters Towers
becomes “The Towers,” Mt. Isa “The
Isa,” and Julia Creek (confusingly) “The
Creek.” Better still, Longreach is “The
Reach,” Cloncurry “The Curry” and
Camooweal. “The Weal.” By common
consent, only some names are so treated.
I have never heard Muttaburra called
“The Burra,” nor 'Cunnamulla “The
Mulla.”—“Miss M.”
* * * *
“Big End”: Most things are done
mechanically these days, but the bag-
sewer is still in demand in the wheat
country. With his hand-pad, needle and
twine, he’s a pleasure to watch. He
makes good money, too, and many
“Stitches” come back to the same pro-
perty year after yefcr, just like the
cotton-pickers used to do. The popu-
larity of grain-sorghum has givpn them an
extended season—early summer for wheat
and autumn for the sorghum. Bulk-
handling of grain is the only thing likely
to worry them.
* * * *
“Bos”: During a disastrous fire a
valuable stud bull, bewildered by noise,
smoke and hustle, lay down and refused
to move. Not until the, proverbial red
rag (someone’s handkerchief) was waved
in front of him did he lumber to his feet
and submit to being led out of danger.
Then he dropped dead of heart-failure.
* * * *
“Yellow Fire”: After half-a-century in
the North Queensland bush I’ve at last
found a cure for stinging-tree stings.
Old Charlie, who has been working with
timber-hauliers for years, passed on the
tip: “Put him plenty haxle-grease, quick
feller, ’ he said. It works.
* * * *
“Ymar”: That fire-spotter on Mt.
Arapiles (B. 13/2/’57), 1195 ft. above sea-
level in the glasshouse observatory where
his 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. vigil for 112 con-
secutive days began on December 16,
1956, needs only his alidade, two pairs
of powerful binoculars, maps of three
adjoining military districts and a telephone
to check on fires throughout his 8000-
square-mile territory. - High as he is
perched, during his first month there this
summer over 200 visitors from S.A,„
N. S. Wales and Queensland, as well as
Victoria, scrambled up the last pinch
from the tourist road and enjoyed the
extensive view of scores of local lakes,
distant mountains, and the general rural
scenery.
* ’ * * *
“Emel”: The parrot-fish’s gaudy
stripings (B. 13/2/’57) were certainly
no deterrent to those great fish-lovers the
Romans. To the great partiality of the
Emperor Claudius for this fish the world
owes “the most important feat of salt-
water pisciculture ever attempted,” and
undoubtedly the most far-reaching.
Parrot-fish, though plentiful in the
/Egean Sea, were then rare in the Western
Mediterranean. By imperial order vast
quantities of the fish were netted in the
/Egean and conveyed in tanks to Ostia,
where they were liberated. A severe ban
for several years, on the catching, selling
and eating of these fish ensured that they
bred and firmly established themselves
there. They are still being caught in
quantity off the Italian and Proven?al
coasts.
*** , *
“P.0.M.C.”: Holidaying at a North
Coast (N.S.W.) guest-house, I was told
at the office that a general introduction
to my fellow-guests was unnecessary as
“we’re all jolly good friends here.” I
inquired if there was a safe where I might
deposit certain valuables. “Yes v of
course,” my hostess replied. “It isn’t safe
to leave valuables in the bedrooms.”
* * * *
“G.M.”: Agree that ground-nesting
birds have no answer to the fox (B.
13/2/’57). The death-rate among such
birds as the plover is high, but their
vigilance and courage is something to see.
A spurwing will stand over her eggs and
wave her wings in front of a mob of mill-
ing cattle. A neighbor, while ploughing,
noticed a banded-plover defying the
moving monster which bore down on her
precious eggs. He pulled up with the nest
beneath the tractor. He used his hat to
“When automation d' come , boays, we'll all be able to sit down 'n' take
things easy."
move eggs and scanty nest-material to
safety on the worked ground. The plover
accepted the eggs and hatched them.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Of all large groups of birds,
otir water-fowl have suffered least
through the coming of civilisation,
despite that countless numbers were
shot for the table. If anything, settlement
increased the supply of surface-water,
and that was what counted. Avian
specialists who suffer most from a change
in their surroundings are those with home-
loving habits, weak powers of flight and
nervous dispositions —such as the scrub-
birds, bristle-birds and the lovely firetail-
finch. Nothing drastic in the nature of
habitat-destruction is needed. Mere
pressure round the boundaries of their
kingdom frequently spells disaster.
* * * *
“Ranji”: In the Melbourne suburb of
Gladstone, the Convent of the Good
Shepherd has its own dairyfarm. It’s like
seeing a dinkum slice of Gippsland as
the cattle graze placidly among the trees,
oblivious to the snarl of heavy traffic
passing along adjacent Dandenong-road,
one of the city’s main arteries.
“Got a match?"
“Byramine”: , To the stockmen’s
outfit “Warrabulla” (B. 13/2/’57)
might have added ’lastic-side boots,
belt with holder for matchbox
and pocketknife, and, to go a.long way
back, a felt hat with moderately wide
brim and a strap which tucked in the
groove between bottom lip and chin.
These have died out —possibly because the
modern horse doesn’t go fast enough to
blow the rider’s hat off.
\ .
* * * *
“Sparks”: Roadside advertising hoard-
ings in the Caboolture (Q.) area are
expected to disappear because the shire
council has raised the annual licence-fee"
for the hoardings from ss. to £3O.
* * * #
“8.J.L.”: Any mention of Queensland
railways (B. 6/2/’57) recalls our leave-
train north of Ingham in ’44. The weary
engine stripped some, driving-rods and
had to be partially dismantled, leaving
only one pair of driving-wheels. These
spun helplessly when it attempted to limp
on into Ingham. A watching sergeant
suddenly had an idea, “Push, men,
push! ” he bellowed, and when something
like a thousand men push, something must
move. The train gathering speed and the
panting troops having scrambled aboard,
an officious officer buttonholed a W.O.
“Have you checked the men, Sar’-major ;
made sure none were left behind?” The
W.O. never stirred. “This train, sir,” he
said, “is ‘proceeding on,’ not ‘returning
from,’ leave.”
>ls * * *
“W.P.T.”: Electrification of the rail-
way-line over the Blue Mountains of
N.S.W. necessitated removal to another
site of a tombstone near Wentworth Falls
station. This small tombstone right
beside the permanent-way marks the grave
of James Ferguson, killed by lightning
on December 21, 1859, aged 22 years and
10 .months. That was before the railway-
line was built; and it looks as though
they built the line aiew feet further south
.than .they might have if the grave had
not been there.
* * * *
“Miss M.”: Can’t tell “Emptor” (B.
23/1 /’57) why ledgers have such inade-
quate pounds-columns ; the same trouble
occurs in the multitudinous forms that
file away our daily life. How often does
one find oneself trying to fit, “369, Mulli-
gatawny - crescent, Brighton-le-Sands”
into a space barely large enough for “1,
Cox-st., Hay”? Our stock-inspector’s pet
hate is the lengthy Cattle Compensation
Claim which he has to fill-in after
destroying beasts suffering from notifiable
diseases. The space for “Nature of
Disease” is just right for “ ’flu.” He
destroyed several head for one owner,
and had to squeeze the names of their
several diseases into this tiny space.- Of
“Actinomycosia” he could find room for
only “Actino,” but thought it sufficient
as no other notifiable disease begins with
those syllables. The authorities returned
the form, pointing out that if by .“Actino”
he meant “Actinobacillosis,” it is not a
notifiable disease.
MARGARET
Margaret was born in County Clare
In the cool green lands of Erin
But she remembered 'little there
For she left when only seven.
Off to Australia she set sail
On the tiny Mount Lebanon, \
Hid together in lash of gale
And the seas were dark and sullen.
On the rooftops in the pouring rain
In Queensland’s flood of ’ninety-three ;
And many were never seen again —
The Bremer held their mystery.
Federation of all the States
When all the wide blue skies were one
And Margaret saw the Commonwealth.
The century had just begun.
Soon Margaret met her only love
On the bridge one summery night,
Walked together beneath the stars
As lady and gentleman might.
She heard the tramp of marching feet
And the trumpets sound in the street.
Anzac was born. A simple wreath
Lies on the heart under its beat.
Then comes a time of revelry
That Margaret had no time to see ;
In a town called Roma she
Sits ’neath a pepperina tree.
A time of sorrow, time of stress,
She sits under a darkened sky
And work is getting less and less.
“One kiss, Margaret, before I die.”
Not long, my love, no, no, not long
Before I am again with you,
My kiss upon your lips, my love,
My heart is warm and still as true.
So, Margaret, while l write these lines
On white sands where you used to run
A breeze comes dancing through the
pines
And your smile lingers in the sun.
QUEENSLAND.
KEVIN McAULIFFE.
JACK RICE
nrHE moral in Peter Bladen’s ballad
' “Camphor Joe” (B. 23/l/’57), that
insignificant happenings often fire the
public imagination and become legends,
could not have been better exemplified
than by the Abo.-contributor in the next
week’s Bully who mentioned “a roll
[of currency] that Jack Rice couldn't
jump over.”
The frequency with which this term
is used to denote size or height has for
years astonished me.
The original, a bay (if my memory is
not at fault) gelding, whose name was
derived from his imported sire, Rice, won
fame for winning hurdle-races on Sydney
tracks under big weights, about the First
War period. It is doubtful if Jack Rice
ever faced an obstacle higher than 4ft.,
and his weight-carrying feats were at least
emulated by another Sydney hurdler,
Greensea, who has long lapsed into the
limbo of forgotten things.
Great Show high-jumpers, such as
Sundown, Musician, Bloom, Gold Mead,
Rouken Lass and Peninsula —some of
whom cleared over Bft. —are unknown to
the average Australian. Mighty steeple-
chasers Mountain God, Mosstrooper and
Redditch (all of a greater calibre than
gallant old Jack Rice) have their names
reserved by the Registrar of Racehorses,
so that no horse can be named after
them —an honor not accorded Jack Rice.
Not long ago a New Australian, keenly
interested in athletics, expressed wonder
that he could find no mention of Jack
Rice among Australia’s great Olympians,
and concluded that he must have been a
professional. Would he be, he inquired,
as good as “Chilla” Porter? His incredu-
lity when informed that Jack Rice was a
racehorse famed solely for weight-
carrying achievements had to be seen to
be believed.
The years will probably dim the lustre
of the immortal Phar Lap, but it seems
probable that the legend of Jack Rice
will go on for ever.
LEX McLENNAN.


THERE'S a pub about six miles out of
Perth where “Gentlemen are re-
quested to wear their shirts in this
lounge.”—“C.O.B.”
* * * *
**Q. Ree” (Fiji): A team of Fijians
treated all the coconut-trees in our small
town far rhinoceros-beetle. I stood on
the veranda to watch what should have
been an outstanding display of climbing.
I was disappointed. They had on special
shoes and walked up the trees with less
effort than I put into climbing my front
steps.
sfc * * *
“Dolphin”: A Westralian port foot-
ball-team challenged our ship to a game.
We drew a team from the crew' and some
Diggers we were carrying. That evening
the teams threw a party, paying fifty-
fifty for the grog. The locals tried to
conceal a full five-gallon keg among the
empties, but the Service-team was right
on them. Shortly after, an R.A.N. jeep
pulled up at the rear entrance of the
hall. A toot on the horn, the door opened,
and two burly Diggers manhandled the
keg into the jeep. Although the cops
searched the ship for hours, they didn’t
find that keg till next morning, when it
floated, empty, on to the beach.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Most P.M.G. pits and
manholes harbor colonies of cockroaches
and redback-spiders, but making an in-
spection of a manhole in Moverley-road,
Maroubra (N.S.W.), I narrowly missed
stepping on the tail of a young tiger-
snake. Joe was only 20in. from stem to
stern, but like all his kind showed plenty
of fight. When this gets around linemen
will be claiming danger-money.
* * * *' ■
“Curie”: Birds are not the only things
that cover their eggs, “Kelms” (B.
23/1/’57). Desperate shortage of them
in our town, and I managed to scrounge
two dozen. * Having to leave them in the
car, I decided to take no chances with our
light-fingered population, so put them on
the floor and covered them with a loose
piece of carpet. They were so well-
concealed that on my return I plonked
my heavy little daughter right on them
. . . mountains of scrambled eggs for
lunch.
* '/* * *
“M.E.8.”: “R.H.G.” (B. 13/2/’57)
has his facts right but his reason’s wrong.
Boyle’s Law relates to pressure and
specific volume of a gas, whereas the
principle governing ammonia refrigera-
tors and the cooling of beer-bottles by
pouring petrol over them is the “latent
heat of evaporation.” Heat is extracted
from the beer, etc., by the fluid when it
changes from liquid to gas.
* * * *
“Wandana”: Two long-submerged
wrecks are now being worked on by
salvage-operators —Pericles, off the West
Australian coast, and Admella, lying off
Cape Northumberland (Vic:). The
Admella, a fast 360-ton steamer in the
inter-colonial trade, left Adelaide for
Melbourne on August 5, 1859, carrying
82 passengers, several racehorses, and
cargo which included 93 tons of copper
in cakes and ingots, which is what they
want to salvage. Between Kangaroo Island
and Cape Jervis a heavy south-easterly
swell threw one of the racehorses
(Jupiter) on his back in his box. The
ship’s head was brought round to the
swell for an hour while they secured the
horse. Apparently this upset the captain’s
computations; some hours later the
passengers were hurled out of their bunks
as Admella crashed on to the rocks. One
point more to the southward would have
saved her, \
* He * *
“Helldud”: “Brick E.” (B. 30/1/’57)
might have more respect for convict
building if he had toiled with us car-
penters in the late ’nineties removing
flooring and joists from the convict-built
Supreme Court building in Sydney. The
flooring was of six-by-one tallow-wood,
sans tongues and grooves, hand-wrought
and fixed with hand-made iron nails.
Then we struck the solid part of the task.
The joists consisted of round ironbark
logs faired-off by adze of broad-axe on
upper surfaces and about lOin. x 12in.
in diameter. There were no bearers to
carry the joists, which ran through the
party walls with the brickwork built
between and over them. They were bone-
hard, and we had to saw them off close
to, and on both sides of, the party walls,
a job which involved about three hours’
labor and a saw-sharpen for each cut.
v
* * * *
“Bass”: Almost every year somewhere
around the Westralian coast someone is
swept off rocks high above the sea and
from apparently safe positions. To the
south and west of W.A. there are
thousands of miles of ocean lashed by
the world’s most persistent wind-system,
and a roll generated in those waters isn’t
always dissipated over the continental
shelf. Moreover, certain spots along the
coast act as natural funnels that guide
the rollers into pockets which, probably
because of this, are good fishing-spots.
Result: every now and again what the
locals call a “king” wave rises from a
calm surface and washes over rocks 30ft.
or more out of the water and with
sufficient force to wash a man into the
sea. The danger goes even higher than
the wave. Most of the rocks are covered
with a brown and dry sea-growth which
becomes green and slimy immediately a
spray reaches it. To be perfectly safe
you’ve got to be well above spray-level,
and I’ve seen spray rise over 100 ft.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Don’t fancy “Flight’s” theory
that the male emu gets a family’together
by robbing hens of their babes (B.
6/2/’57). The big fellow comes by his
chicks the hard way—he hatches ’em
out. Apart from the emu, the painted-
quail and painted-snipe , are the only
feathered Dads I know that do the whole
job —both of them, like the emu, ground-
nesters. Most male birds accept some
share in family responsibilities, but there
are quite a few no-hopers who leave
everything to the hen.
* * * *
“R.M.”: My introduction to the game
of “Crow” mentioned by “Kelvin” (B.
19/12/’56) was on the Sinai Peninsula,
“ Pull-up somewhere for a headache-powder."
where the Thirtieth Battalion had become
the Thirstiest Battalion—one quart of
water daily. The mess-orderly’s job was
particularly disagreeable; ' all greasy
dixies had to be scoured with sand. Each
day it was necessary to travel farther afield
to find a spot which had not been previ-
ously befouled. A knowledgeable few
arranged a game of Crow, the loser to
be permanent mess-orderly as long as we
occupied that camp. The loser—the one
who drew “Crow” from the hat which
was supposed to hold an assortment of
bird-names, but only held “Crows”
accepted his seeming bad luck with good
grace and never shirked the job. When we
broke camp someone told him how he had
been tricked. So he got a transfer to a
transport-unit and from its t comparative
security he saw the ranks of the P. 8.1.
shattered in France in the years that
followed. He must often have thought
that the trick had done him a good turn.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: An outsize swindle was
worked during the founding of Mildura
Irrigation Settlement, when people who
had taken-up blocks wanted to get them
“Did y bring the snorkel outfits P”
planted as soon as possible. The Chaffeys
Were employing every capable man they
could get on budding and grafting—the
late Arthur Leech did 60,000 apricot-
trees for them in one season—and all the
nurserymen were flat-out, but still the
demand couldn’t be met. Then the rogues
stepped in, offering “certified” plants at
cut rates. In spite of Ben Chaffey’s
repeated warnings, owners of blocks fell
for it. Over a thousand acres of irrigated
land were planted to “Washington
navels” which proved to be common
orange seedlings, “Muscat” grapes which
were tasteless black ones, and rubbishy
little peaches which nobody would have
as a gift. In some cases, the frauds
weren’t detected for years —and by then
the sellers, like the welching bookmaker
in the old song, were far, far away.
* * *
“Salmon Gums”: My dictionary—it’s
also Mr. Webster’s—says Hymenoptera
are “a large order of insects having four
membranous wings, etc.” ; and it gives
the derivation of the word as from the
Greek hymen, a membrane, and pteron,
a wing. Maybe. But Hymen was also the
god of marriage, and I’m wondering if
the entomologist who named this order
of insects had that in mind at the time,
and regarded each pair of wings as being
composed of two “married” partners.
The order includes bees and wasps, ants,
sawflies and those ovipository marvels
the ichneumon flies ; and all these derive
their strong flight from the fact that,
although the two wings on each side are
distinct and unattached while at rest, in
flight the rear wings become linked with
the fore-wings by means of hooks and
eyes which effectively engage the wings
and present a broad surface for added
lift and speed. Nature employs these
minute hooks in many ‘ways—the barbs
of a feather are held together by the
smallest and most effective slide-fastener
in existence, so that, however much
buffeting the feather receives, the bird
can repair most of the damage by simply
running its beak along the barbs and
zipping them together again. We call
that preening. But the “marriage” of
bees’ wings in flight may be even more
remarkable, and it never fails to act. I’ll
bet that feature influenced the naming
of the order.
* * * *
“D.P.L.”: I was putting up a “how-
to-vote” placard when in walked Wool-
bales. After scanning it for a minute he
said, “Don’t you think it would be better
to use English names instead of those
New-Australian names?” All the names
were taken from Dickens.
* * * *
“Baksac”: Big brother, when building
his house, left a stand of ironbark-sap-
lings on the block. “When I’m an old
bloke about fifty,” he declared, “those
trees’ll be worth a packet.” Recently,
an “old bloke” of 54, he gave the vacant
land to his son as a wedding-present, and-
the harvest started to come in from the
big ironbarks. A house now stood on the
adjoining block; its gutters copped a
glance from a limb and had to be repaired.
A gust of wind twisted another falling
tree on to an .electric lead-in wire: cost,
four-quid. A tree near the footpath had
to be lopped before being felled, but a
light branch dropped, short-circuited two
wires and burnt one down. Another bill.
One tree leaned heavily towards a thickly
wired telephone-post. Wisely, it was'
arranged that the P.M.G. service should
take down their wires and fell the tree.
More cost. But there was a good stack
of ironbark logs for sale. The fencing-
contractors weren’t interested; they buy
sawn posts ready mortised (who cares if
sawn posts do rot off, anyway?). The
fuel-merchants wouldn’t bid —not much
demand for* wood now ; all gas or electric-
stoves. Finally a sawmiller offered a
niggardly price for the timber —as paling-
material. Result: A lot of hard work
for a dead loss.
* * * *
TT was such a peaceful stretch of the
river that nobody could have sus-
pected there would be trouble soon after
we camped, and least of all that we would
have brought the cause of it with us. I’d
lifted the tucker-box from the ute and
was setting up the fire-pot when —ping!
something hit the off front-wheel. Took
a quiet peak round the corner, and there
they were at it—Bluey the Wren tearing
into the intruder of his own species "who
had arrived in my hub-cap. With
humming-bird frenzy he hovered in front
.of the chromium, snapping at the foe
right, left and centre ; trying now and
then to claw the other midget, which was
just as willing to mix it as was the local
champ. The pace was too hot to last,
and for a breather he flew on to the
bonnet- —only to catch sight of another
enemy in the headlight. With a wheezy
shriek of rage he sailed into the latest
opponent, and the commotion brought
his little missus up from the bracken just
in time to take on another strange wren
—a hen—lurking in the other headlight.
From then on the rounds were fairly
evenly shared with these and the other
raiders stationed in all four wheels,
though the ones in the lamps got most
attention —they were easier to handle ;
they could be jumped on. The local fowl,
in an effort to dislodge the menace before
dark, stayed up later than usual, and their
final passes were pretty groggy ; yet they
were at it again at daybreak. I had to be
getting along, and pulled out after break-
fast ; but I can guess who took the credit
for our early departure. —“Wippegong.”
SO IT’S TO BE...
What a to-do about this state of Being
seeing To Be or Not To Be’s no
question—
simply compulsion of the baldest fact . . ~
The spark is obstinate
whether we clutter earth or peter out
on a Bare Bodkin, or pluck at Death
like fruit already dry and wrinkled ’neath
the hand.
Bound are we
by Western ethics to drag on and on
even though elation’s gone,
joy in work or living, sharp delight
that lies in hard achievement . . .
Life the grim game
makes no provision for the weak or
craven,
the coward —slipping through half-
opened door.
This youth of Elsinore —
how like a babe is he
with windy talk ' and crass philosophy of
Be and Not To Be.. ..
carping a good three hundred years, a
muddled rebel
since Being’s after all inevitable.
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


Fctitti mi itie
Future
V,.
I wonder if Australians themselves realise how
important the mineral development of this
continent is, in perspective of the world’s need.
Take the recent discovery of bauxite at Weipa,
in Cape York Peninsula. To appreciate the
importance of that find we should look at the huge
Alcan project in British Columbia. The Aluminium
Company of Canada has spent a colossal amount
of money there since 1951—in a part of the world
where no great deposit of aluminium is known to
exist. »
Why did Alcan put vast sums into what is
claimed to be the biggest industrial enterprise ever
undertaken in one integrated plan? Why did it
block eastward rivers so that their torrent would
turn west and drop in giant tunnels towards the
Pacific Ocean?
The answer is in one word: Power. Canada
has enormous volumes of water at height, and the
essence of efficient production of aluminium is in
cheap, abundant hydro-power. It was the need
for low-cost power for aluminium in the last
century that led to the harnessing of the Niagara
Falls.
To wed power to the raw material, Alcan has
had to establish’expensive plant at Jamaica, and
it ships the alumina concentrate 9000 miles through
the Panama Canal to British Columbia.
Consider now the prospect that opens in
Northern Australia. Survey of the Weipa deposits
to be worked by one large Australian company
gives an estimate of hundreds of millions of tons
of bauxite. Another company, subsidiary of
Canadian interests, is prospecting an area nearby.
And Weipa is less than 250 miles from the
coast of New Guinea, where towering mountains
and high rainfall add up to a great potential in
hydro-power.
To labour the point—what this combination
could mean to our whole Northern future—is
needless.
But it illustrates the force of the slogan I have
sought to encourage: Faith in Australia, and in all
that it has for the winning.
// 9
7
The Federal Mutual insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors: THOMAS A. MAQNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duetbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 8. White; A. Q. Parker.
H. H. MOULTON, Managing Director.
’Phone: BW 8361.
P. BURDON, Manager.
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States .
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Still “Vigorously Selective”
T AST week, in commenting on
the shock given to the market
by the loss forecast by General
Industries, Ltd., The Bulletin,
referring to its New Year predic-
tion of a “vigorously selective”
sharemarket, asked “How selec-
tive must you be! ”
It might also have asked:
“How vigorous can you get! ”
The fact is that, against a
background of crashing profits
in the case of a variety of com-
panies, mostly of recent growth,
there is a great surge of support
for key industrials.
Most remarkable, perhaps,
has been the demand for rights
to the B.H.P. and 1.C.1. new
issues.
Many people thought they
would be able to pick-up B.H.P.
rights (the issue is at par) at
20s. or under. But they have had
to pay up to 225., and the “old”
shares have risen to 44s.,'which
is not far short of their earlier
cnm-rights price.
In the case of I.C J. the
position has been very much the
same. Cum rights the scrip
was on offer for a considerable
period at’ 475. 6d. The rights
opened tentatively at about 16s.
But anyone who expected bar-
gains after the rights were avail-
able for a time was quickly dis-
illusioned. They have shot up
above 18s., and, ex-rights, the
“old” shares are back to 475.
In the case of Goldsbrough
Mort’s new issue, the market
response has not been quite so
solidly enthusiastic, in spite of
the ‘buoyant price for wool.
Ampol Petroleum rights repre-
sent a slightly cheaper method
of buying the shares than was
available when the old shares
were cum rights.
Away from the rights market,
great strength is being shown in
some sections of the share-
market. A.C.T. had its big rise
early in the new year and then
lost a little of its gain. There
were, also early, lifts in Masonite,
Minster, Reichhold, Herald and
W.T. and Johns and Waygood.
Henry Jones showed early
strength, rising from 475. to 545.
But now it has leapt to 605., with
date and nature of its future
benefits still to be decided in the
boardroom.
Since the G. J. Coles new
capital arrangements were
announced, Burns Philp shares
have also risen, and stand at
58s. 9d.—about 10s. up on last
year’s closing price. The South
Seas associate is making a new
one-for-three par issue.
G. J. Coles ords. themselves
have firmed up to 235. 6d., and
Wool worths, the traditional
opposition, have strengthened to
205., in spite of accounts show-
ing slightly lower earnings after
allowing for increased taxation.
Brewery shares have firmed,
too, with Tooths touching ''49s.
There has been a ripple of
interest in insurance stocks, even
.in coal shares, while Davis
Gelatine, one of the key indus-
tries more recently listed, has
touched its top price of 355.
Tancred Bros., the N.S.W. meat
concern, has reached 225. for its
10s. shares, though they were
placed on the market only last
year.
But if there is any clear pattern
in the market, it is that a high
premium is now being paid for
industrial muscle and financial
strength. The investment value
of good management is being
appreciated as rarely before in
the past 20 years. The equity
investor is sheering away from
novelties and turning to basic
industries which have a sound
background. This in most cases
means the acceptance of a yield
below the 5 p.c. bond-rate, and
often below 4 p.c.
Buying by fixed-unit trusts
has a strong “bull” influence on
the market these days, though,
since they sell their rights to
new issues, they often have a
depressing effect on the rights
market. But it is said that one
unit trust sold a parcel of about
50,000 I.C.L. rights by private
treaty, and the open market
went from strength to strength
instead of sagging.
There is more money in the
hands of some investors at the
moment, and it is having its effect
on the market for first-class
industrial stocks. Elsewhere
there is little evidence of an
abundance of money—certainly
not of spending-money for outlay
on semi-durables. And it js
clear that there are market limits,
not far away, to the upward
surge which is taking place even
in good industrials at present.
Yields have dropped to a low
level, while again and again
company chairmen tell a chasten-
ing tale of the continued rise
in production-costs.
♦ i
Begg, of 1.C.1.
TT was a pleasant half-hour for
1 Kenneth Begg, chairman of
1.C.1.A.N.Z., to get up at the
annual meeting in Melbourne
last week and announce that the
company had reversed its ratio
of imports and Australian manu-
factures since 1939 by 70/30 per
cent, to 30/70 per cent,
respectively.
Begg, a quiet, conservative,
imposing six-footer, who is
always impeccably turned-out
and really looks like the
managing-director of a big show,
is a self-made hard-worker.
Although he had the advantage
of a Melbourne Grammar
education, he was working for
small, firms when other school-
mates were at the University,
and going to night-school to learn
some of the realities of business
—accountancy, methods, and
shipping.
At 29 the ambitious young
fellow bought the N.Z. branch
of an Australian company which
included a half-interest in Dyes
and Chemicals (N.Z.), Ltd., and
at 30, with the depression in full
slide, he bought the other half.
He sold his company in 1940
to 1.C.1. and ran the combina-
tion of the two in N.Z. until he
returned to Melbourne, and he
became the boss of the whole
show in Australasia at 49.
Terms-fmance Developments
/"''USTOM Credit Corporation’s
offer to lend up to £2 million
for housing-loans of from £5OO
to £3OOO at 10 p.c. interest
(annual rests) clearly represents
an exceptional type of home-
finance, and could not be
regarded in any other light. But
if it is available to bridge the
gap between the normal finance
available in building a house and
the actual cash in the home-
builder’s hands, then it is not
expensive money.
Further, there wouldn’t be
much profit in it to the hire-
finance co., which pays a
comparatively high average rate
on its own borrowings.
Custom Credit Corp. is the
concern, in which the National
Bank has a 40 p.c. interest, that
recently offered to finance, on
time-payment, migrants’ passages
to Australia.
Wapet, 1957
[From 1,. Owen]
CJOME time ago (B. 17/10/’56),
I drew attention to the fact
that important details with
reference to Wapet’s operations
and future programmes—in spite
of a highly-efficient public-
relations service and an authori-
tative and accurate monthly
“Digest”—were being anticipated
in daily and Sunday papers by
“Special Correspondents” and
the like.
Now, astonishingly, a usually-
frivolous weekly “picture-
paper” has become the medium
for reproducing statements,
photographs, maps and geo-
logical sections.
As in the former instance,
some of the matter is authentic
and even valuable, and much of
it is new, but it is marred by
out-of-scale geological sections,
irritating to the geologist and
misleading to the layman. Then
the production of Rough Range
No. 1 well is given as 15,000
gallons a day. Actually, the
official figures over a 60-day
test were 16,896 barrels of oil
and 3689 barrels of brine with
the production of oil decreasing,
and that of brine increasing, on
continuous test. The average oil-
production over the full test was
thus under 10,000 gallons a day,
and much less towards the end
of the test.
Readers of The Bulletin may
draw some consolation from the
fact that the latest interpretations
of the Exmouth Gulf structure
have approached closely to those
put forward here for a long time
past. The possibilities of the
Birdrong sandstone as a
commercial producer are
abandoned in favor of faults.
The migratory nature of the oil
is now, at least tacitly, admitted,
and the faulted zone is extended
from Rough Range South to the
a surface synclinal trough
separating Rough Range from
Cape Range to the west. This
zone is now to be tested (almost
due west from Rough Range
No. A, according to the published
section), thus replacing the
earlier proposal to test the major
surface anticlinal axis of the
Rough Range to the north-east,
a proposal criticised in these
columns.
While the new programme, in
my opinion, is much more in
line with the known geological
characteristics of the Carnarvon
Basin, the claim that the upper
Dingo shale of Cape Range is a
probable commercial source-
rock can be defended only by
very questionable evidence. So
far, also, the functioning of the
local faults as barriers to migrat-
ing shallow oil rather than as
feeders of oil migrated from
depth is—again in my opinion-
contrary to available data.
The results from wells drilled
in the surface-trough between
Rough Range and Cape Range
will be looked forward to with
interest, but very detailed work
will have to be done in the
region if an undue proportion
of abortive wells is to be avoided.
Waiting for Money
N successive days buyers
paid £72,500 for about four
acres of land on which stands
Glyn, the 17-roomed home of
the'late E. S. Miller, and £39,000
for 34-roomed Kyalite and its
acre of land, both in Toorak,
the green and fashionable suburb
of Melbourne.
It is one of the anomalies of
the real-estate market in Mel-
bourne that land continues to
sell readily to homebuilders,
although it is hard to get the
finance to erect a dwelling on
it. (War Service Homes is the
most liberal provider, but its
finance takes almost two years to
materialise.)
Toorak land, which sets the
value and the volume in Vic-
torian sales, now sells to lot-
buyers at £1 a square-foot; one
allotment in secluded Heyington-
place was sold recently for £5OOO
and it covered only 3300 square
feet.
All the recent subdivisions in
■Toorak have been popular and
profitable for the operators.
Most of the 2} acres of the
Leura estate, selling at £1 a
square foot, have been sold;
Leura was the old Paine-family
home, and provides magnificent
views of the city and bay. Only
two or three lots of the Whern-
dew estate, in a secluded area off
Jrving-road, have yet to sell.
Glyn’s price for four acres and
its splendid mansion appears to
compare badly with the one-
acre and rambling Kyalite, but
Glyn’s great garden has a deep
valley through it, making house-
building more costly. The
American buyers of Kyalite
propose to build flats, but Glyn’s
land will be subdivided, and on
the current market of £43,000
an acre must return a handsome
profit' from buyers who are
prepared to wait to build.
The change in the building-
trade in recent years has been
complete. A few years ago all
that was plentiful was money;
now all except money is
available.
Three leading Australian
motor cos. have reported or
indicated lower turnover for the
latest half-year. Rootes (Aus-
tralia), Ltd., which makes or
assembles Hillman, Humber and
Sunbeam - Talbot cars and
Commer trucks, recorded lower
sales and profits during the half-
year to January 31. Effect on
the dividend is not yet apparent
—the co. paid 10 p.c. in one
final div. last year. Standard
Motor Products, Ltd., has cut its
interim to a rate of 15 p.c. p.a.,
compared with 20 p.c. in the
previous term, following lower
sales and profits. York Motors
(Holdings), Ltd., has declared an
interim of 10 p.c., compared with
p.c. last term, when the
final was 10 p.c. For several years
up to 1954-55 “Yorks” paid
30 p.c.
* * «
Philip Morris (Aust.), Ltd.,
made a profit during the half-
year to December 31. In 1955-56
it incurred a loss of £141,647,
and the £1 shares sank to 14s.
They have recovered to 15s. 3d.


LYSAGHT
UTILITY I
PRICE F.O.R.
NEWCASTLE
tSSYCvrsN
i!Pi@!l§§!
Sil
i
y
Makes an ideal storage shed or workshop
roomy enough to accommodate a car
or tractor. Easily assembled by any handy
man! Basic unit includes . . .
• Predrilled support angles and bolts.
• Wall and roof sheets of curved design,
eliminating need for framework.
® Back wall sheets and flashing.
SPECIFICATION: Length, 20 ft. Width, 10 ft.
Minimum Head Room, 6ft. 6ins.
Maximum Head Room, 8 ft.
EXTRAS AVAILABLE—ALL PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
Barge boards, £3/10/-.
Side Door
(5'2 W x I'9" opening),
£4.
Window frame
without glass (approx.
3' x 2'), £3/15/-.
Write for further information and Agents' Names to: —
LYSAGHT'S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysaght lAustralial Pty. Ltd. in
all Capital Cities.
■»^UK3I
cut costs ... SAVE MONEY WITH
TUBELESS
Cheaper
v, am/safer Mi/es
. Afore
froi/A/e-free. ArneQ
More
Contfoit&bld
“TIME-SAVING, TOO,” says
;
Famous Test Cricketer, BILL O’REILLY
"These Goodyear
Tubeless Tyres
don't need halt
the attention of
other tyres. They
hold air better,
and if repairs are
needed, it only
takes a jiffy to get
them in order
again with a Sim-
plug repair kit with
the tyre still on the
wheel."
3R51
*
m
i
a
5*4
t>s
a*##*
i
rrm
>■£
&
S
GREATEST MONEY-SAVING TYRES EVER!
Reports are coming in from enthusiastic motorists all over Aus-
tralia. One motorist has obtained 33,000, miles on a set of
Goodyear Tubeless; another, 34,000 miles in hard going 24 hours
a day on shift work. Two instances among hundreds. And, on
top of money-saving mileages, they get real tyre-safety.
GOODYEAR
TUBELESS & TUBE-TYPE TYRES
More people, the world over, ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
IUTAORILAND’S overseas
exchange transactions for
January support view,
expressed in this column a fort-
night ago, that it is too soon
to think of relaxing the credit-
squeeze.
The month showed a deficit
of £l.l million, against a surplus
of £3.8 million in January, last
year. Receipts were £2 million
down at £28.1 million, payments
£4 million up at £25.2 million.
Export receipts fell £3 million
to £24.5 million. Meat brought
£2.1 million less at £7.6 million,
butter £1 million less at £3.1
million.
Private imports were £2.1
million up at £22.3 million,
Government imports £900,000 up
at £2.9 million.
Net overseas assets at the end
of January were £77.3 million,
against £67.1 million in January,
1956', and £86.5 * million in
January, 1955. The recovery of
about £lO million is welcome, but
it is not enough to make
relaxation safe.
Customs Union
N.Z.’s latest worry concerns
the possible effect on its export
trade of the common-market
scheme of the six Messina
Powers ,France, Germany,
Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium
and Luxembourg.
In brief, these nations propose
w abolish Customs tariffs among
themselves and to impose a
common tariff against other
nations. This would lower their
cost and result tin expansion of
their mutual trade.
The N.Z. Government, early
in February, communicated with
the six European Governments
concerned, asking for an
assurance that the Dominion’s
export trade in farm produce
would not be adversely affected.
Since then the Dominion
Council of Federated Farmers
has gone so far as to suggest that
the Government should consider
seeking membership in the
proposed European Customs
union.
Otherwise the entry of N.Z.’s
products into member-countries
could become more restricted
than at present by the imposition
of 'common Customs tariffs and
import-licensing controls,
The volume of N.Z.’s exports
to the Messina Powers in 1955
was about £4l million. They
consisted mainly of wool, dairy
produce and meat, but included
also tallow, hides, pelts, calf-
skins, woolly sheepskins, sausage
casings, apples and grass-seeds.
Trans-Tasman Trade
•
N-Z.s High Commissioner m
Canbeira, Mr. Lisle Aldeiton,
apparently caused the Govern-
ment some embarrassment.
th “P s !“ , h ' rea . , !L “."'imnorT
!' atlon m the lssue of lmpor, ‘
f , , Primp
/ ew „ later Prime
Minlsler Hoffand
press, on Mr. Alderton s Denali,
unre Served retraction of this
downrigh , statement . At the
Mr Holland came
forward with a statement of his
own, clearly designed to soothe
any ruffled feelings across the
Tasman
Australia approached e
question ot trade with N.Z in
a y er y S®nerous spirit, Mr.
Holland said. The two countries
had oenefited equally liom
additional trade resulting from
an arrangement made last yean
But . . ai rangement was o
special importance to . .
because it § ave a BIOUP8 IOU P °
industries, including t e new
forest industries,-a 100 o in
Australia which they wou c
otherwise find it hard to get.
It is true that year after yeai
Maoriland has a huge balance-
of-payments deficit with Aus-
tralia. Last year it was £23.9
million, compared with £-3.4
million in 1955, £21.3 million in
1954, £25.4 million in 1953 and
£25.5 million in 1952.
Though in recent years N.Z.’s
exports to Australia have
increased at a faster rate than
its imports from Australia,
purchases are still about four
times as great as sales,
This is not because of any
special generosity on the part of
N.Z. or any niggardliness on the
part of Australia. The situation
arises merely because Australia
sells at a competitive price the
things that N.Z. wants, notably
steel, wheat and sugar, while
N-Z. sells mainly the things that
Australia already has in
abundance, such as meat, wool
and dairy produce. N.Z. is
Australia’s fifth-best customer
simply because it suits the;
Dominion to shop across the
Tasman.
As Mr. Holland pointed out,
the only satisfactory way to
correct the balance of trade —
and the process will inevitably be
a long-term one—is to produce
the goods which Australia needs.
Some progress has already been
made in this direction in the last
few years, as is shown by N.Z.’s
sales to Australia of newsprint,
woodpulp, tissues, pine timber,
fresh fish and, lately, quick-
frozen foods.
The fact that sales have not
been even greater has not been
due to any unwillingness by Aus-
tralian authorities to grant the
required import-licences, but
rather to difficulties met by N.Z.
producers in placing new pro-
ducts on the market.
South Island Power
A report by British Insula-
tion, Callenders Cables, Ltd., on
the feasibility of laying a cable
to take electric power from the
South to the North Island has
been handed to N.Z.’s Joint
Committee on Power Supply,
which will study it before sub-
mitting it, with recommendations,
to the Government.
The scheme has lately met
with some opposition. The
Commissioner of Works, Mr.
F. M. H. Hanson, has been
reported as saving that N.Z.
should not commit itself to the
Cook Strait cable without a more
thorough technical investigation,
that all N.Z. has is a report
prepared by parties who might
be interested in the construction
of the cable and that the scheme
should await further investiga-
tion.
Mr. R. Boord, M.P. Tor
Rotorua, has criticised the
scheme ds nationally uneconomic
while geothermal resources
remain comparatively un-
developed. It is his view
that, with capital resources
already strained, millions of
pounds should not be spent on
“an administrative project
totally unproductive in itself.”
The money, he considers; could
be used to produce “hundreds
of thousands of kilowatts of
electricity from thermal resources
to be fed into the North Island
grid, which is already in being.”
The Electrical Supply
Authorities Association, how-
ever, supports the cable scheme.
The president, Mr. W. S. N.
Rennie, says he expects that the
authorities will shortly agree to
make £5OO million available to
the Government over the, next
20 years to allow it to carry out
its construction programme,
including hydroelectric, steam
and geothermal works, the Cook
Strait cable and the purchase of
incidental equipment. The
supply authorities, he says, will
brook neither interference nor
delay.


B
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THE HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
M.L.C., chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
VICE-CHAIRMAN ;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYSAGHT:
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE,
MANAGING director.
W. s'! MATTHEWS,
manager.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED
£83,000,000
A MESSAGE TO BUSINESSMEN
|_|AVE you considered the many advantages a man ensures for his
dependents when he appoints Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.)
to provide expert care and management of his Estate?
An ever increasing number of businessmen in cities and suburbs are
taking exactly that precaution by appointing Perpetual Trustee
Company (Ltd.) as their Executor and Trustee—alone, or jointly
with a relative or friend.
Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) has a long and wide experience
in the managements of Estates, and businesses of many different
kinds. Public confidence in its integrity and efficiency is shown by
the Trust Funds under its administration, which exceed £83,000,000.
If you would have full information as to the Company’s methods and
procedure ask that a copy of the Company’s helpful and informative
booklet on this important subject be sertt to you.
Perpetual trustee
* COMPANY LIMITED
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT ORANOE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LIMITED
INDUSTRY HOUSE, CNR. NATIONAL CIRCUIT &
BLAOKALL STREET, CANBERRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDITION TO THOSE
DIRECTORS MENTIONED AT“?THE LEFT:
WARREN D. MCDONALD, vice-chairman;
S. G. McPARLANE, C.M.G.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The T. & G. Mutual Life
Ordinary Life Department.
Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds.
£ £ £ £
1953.. 1(1,450,853 1,647,431 3,117,363 58,780,931
To staff fund, £9900 .. .. 58,771,031
1954.. 11,660,567 1,776,912 65,131,616
To staff fund, £11,325 .. .. 65,120,291
1955.. 12,994,601 1,948,433 4,008,064 72,158,395
To staff fund, £11,475 .. , .. 72,146,920
1956. . 147456,443 2,164,769 4,603,670 79,834,924
To staff fund, £10,320 .. .. 79,824,004
Industrial Life Department.
Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds.
£ £ £ l£
1953.. 5,108,037 1,628,627 2,894,632 27,418,545
To staff fund, £4950 .. . . 27,413,595
1954.. 5,238,109 1,619,355 3,007,020 28,025,329
To staff fund, £Bl5O > .. .. 28,017,179
195(k. 5,380,298 1,580,314 3,065,839 28,751,324
To staff fund, £BOOO .. .. 28,743,324
1956.. 5,395,797 1,610,693 2,763,204 29,765,224
To staff fund, £B9OO .. .. 29,756,264
"OUSINESS continued to flourish for
** the 80-year-old Australasian Tem-
perance and General Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Ltd., in 1956. Writing
ordinary, industrial and accident insur-
ance throughout Australia and New
Zealand, the co. put a total of £47,747,162
(up £2,056,478) new life business on the
books; £40,574,825 (up £2,349,197) in
the ordinary department, and £7,172,337
(down £292,719) in the industrial depart-
ment. Average amount of cover for
each ordinary policy was £813.5, as
against £767.6 (1955) and £707.8 (1954).
Total income of the two life depart-
ments was £19,852,240 (up £1,477,341),
of which £15,423,668 (up £2,429,067)
was premium and (down
£951,726) interest, dividends and rents.
Claims, £7,366,874- (up £292,971),
expenses, £3,775,462 (up £246,715), and
contributions to the staff fund, £19,280
(down £195), took £11,161,616, leaving a
surplus of income over outgo of
£8,690,624.
The amount added to the life funds
to meet future payments under policies
was £6,012,683, raising them to
£109,580,868, which was supported by
investment and contingency reserves
totalling £1,427,581.
Valuation of policy liabilities as at
September 30 disclosed a surplus of life-
assurance and annuity funds of
£2,340,853 (up £355,232) in the ordinary
department and £457,987 (up £59,843) in
the industrial department:
Net surplus— 1954. 1956. 1956.
Ordinary . . .. £1,568,592 £1,985,621 £2,340,853
Industrial .. 332,092 398,1,44 457,987
£1,900,684 £2,383,765 £2,798,840
Of the surplus, policyholders got rever-
sionary bonuses totalling £2,278,547 in
the O.D. and £405,010 in the I.D. Higher
bonus-scales operated in both depart-
ments.
Interest earned on the mean life-
assurance funds showed a lift of 4s. p.c.
to £4 6s. Od. p.c. Expense-rate in the
O.D. was 14.97 p.c., the same as the
previous term; in the I.D. it was -29.85
p.c. as against 29.7 p.c. ip 1955. The
office has done well to hold the
expense level in these inflationary
times, and the better investment yield is a
gratifying sign as well. In the accident
department, which also belongs to policy-
holders—there are no shareholders—
income from premium, interest, divi-
dends, etc., was up £35,976 to £533,004,
of which claims made off with £224,461
(up £11,407), exes. £279,655 (up £320) and
the staff fund £720 (up £195), leaving
£28,168 to be added to the department’s
funds.
The term’s growth in total assets was
£7,227,245:
Publie 1955. p.e. 1956. p.c.
securities . £68,620,329 64.6 £67,974,507 60.0
Mortgages,
etc.* .. 27,494,704 25.9 33,825,496 T59.S
Company
Freeholds) 168 4 '* 693 - 009 4 ‘ 4 5,741,864 5.1
n „ et S\ .•• 4,211,904 4.0 4,321,186 3.8
Cash, book
debts, etc. 1,183,072 1.1 1,467,270 1.3
£106,103,078 £11.1,330,323
* Includes loans on policies.
The co. reduced Government securities
by £545,822 and put £6,330,792 into
loans (mainly mortgages, but including
loans on policies within their surrender-
value), £1,048,795 debentures, £109,282
freeholds, etc., and £284,198 into cash,
debtors, etc. Assets held in New Zealand
are brought into the accounts in terms
of the £N.Z.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
JDY handling a record quantity of wool
last term the 46-year-old woolbroker,
merchant and agency co., Winchcombe,
Carson, Ltd., finished the year with net
earnings down by only 2.2 p.c., despite
the fall in wool prices.
Already one of the largest sellers of
the staple in N.S.W. and Queensland, the
co. is still expanding, and since 1949
capital has jumped from £600,000 to the
present total of £1,250,000, all of which
is in f.-p. £1 ords. In recent years reserves
have grown at very much the same rate
as capital.
Although industrial disputes threatened
to interfere with Australian wool sales
last term, a record 4,295,673 bales of
wool were sold, 7.2 p.c. of them by
Winchcombe, Carson. The co. itself
handled an extra 12,547 bales at the
Sydney, Newcastle and Brisbane selling-
points, the following table showing the
livestock and wool sales over the past
four years:
Wool
(Bales). Sheep.* Cattle.*
1953 .. 286,684 338,330 37,292
1954 • • 300,206 384,335 35,664
1955 . . 298,399 319,106 35,664
4956 • • 310,946 246,672 33,479
* Metropolitan areas Sydney and Brisbane only.
Wool prices were lower, however, greasy
wool averaging 61.4 d. a pound, against
70.8 d. in the preceding term. Sales of
livestock in the metropolitan area de-
clined, but the co.’s country selling-
centres again reported increased business,
while the turnover in station-produce,
mainly sheepskins and hides, reached a
record lev ( el. Sales of agricultural
machinery in Queensland were “well
maintained.” With debtors and advances
of £4,880,342 (at June 30 last), interest
on advances also added to income, but,
in common with most pastoral financiers,
the co. makes little mention of earnings
from this side of the business.
The higher turnover helped to offset
increased operating costs, and net
earnings at £200,418, after providing
£4987 more (£3*5,095) for depreciation,
were only £4661 under those of the pre-
vious term. The provision made for
taxation was not published:
r . . . To Re-
June, Proi/t, Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£ £ £■ £
1950.. 111,411 10 p.e. = 60,000 51,411 677,845
1951.. 183,927 124 „ „ 99,231 84,690 762,541
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 862,541
1952.. 142,959 10 p.c. = 90,000 52,959 915,500
1953.. 175,979 10 „ „ 100,000 75,979 991,479
Tax overprovided, £30,000 .. .. 1,021,479
1954.. 211,475 124p.c.= 125,000 86,475 1,107,954
Share premiums, £62,500 .. ..1,170,454
1955.. 205,079 12jp.c.= 132,813 72,206 1,242,720
1956.. 200,418 111 „ ~ 140,625 59,793 1,302,513
* After deducting goodwill (£41,983).
The div. was dropped from p.c. to
llj p.c., earnings showing a return of
16 p.c. on paid capital, as against 19.2
p.c. on average capital in the preceding
year and 21.1, 17.5, 15.8 and 23.1 p.c.
back to 1951.
The balance-sheet shows a reduction
in liabilities, the £660,183 increase in the
overdraft (despite the credit-squeeze),
being outweighed by a fall of £822,399
in the amount owing to creditors, tax
provision, etc.:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Capital .. .. £1,000,-900 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves .. . . 1,149,937 1,284,703 1,344,496
Overdraft .. .. 474,513 947,403 1,607,586
Creditors .. .. 2,024,332 2,904,812 2,082,413
Final div. . . 75,000 82,813 78,125
£5,323,782 £6,409,731 £6,362,620
Freeholds .. 723,800 . 799,510 952,078
Plant . . .. 135,084 . 154,086 165,149
. Stocks . . . . 287,590 333,259 315,313
Advances, etc. .. 4,126,882 5,133,050 4,880,342
Investments and
cash .. .. 7.843 7,843 7,755
Goodwill 41,983 41,983 41,983
£5,323,782 £6,469,731 £6,362,620
Additional storage-capacity has been
necessary to cater for an expanding turn-
over, and the book-value of freeholds has
almost doubled in the last three years, a
net £152,568 being added last term.
Advances, etc., fell by £252,708 (follow-
ing a startling £1,006,168 leap in the pre-
vious term), but are still shown at more
than twice the figure given in 1950.
The recovery of wool prices and a
greater volume of sales have been
features of the current wool-selling
season, and total sales to January 31 last
(£247.4 million) were £7l million above
those, in the corresponding period of
1955. With under a third of the current
term to go, the next accounts from
Winchcombe, OTrson should cover a
highly successful year.
On Jbne 30 last the f.-p. £1 ords. had a
net tangible cover of 40s. 10d., the scrip
at 435. returning 5.2 p.c. from a 11| p.c.
div. or 5.6 p.c. from a 12| p.c.
distribution.
Lennons Hotel, Ltd. (Brisbane)
'T'HE Lennons group of companies has
almost .completed its big. expansion
programme. The Broadbeach and Kirra
hotels on Queensland’s South (“Gold”)
Coast were opened late in 1956, the
Toowoomba hotel is expected to be in
operation before Easter, and extensions to
the original and chief unit of the group
—the well-known Lennons Hotel, Bris-
bane —will be in use by April.
The modern Brisbane hotel, one of the
largest in the Commonwealth, is owned
by Lennons Hotel, Ltd., which also has
a substantial share-interest in the three
cos. controlling the South Coast and Too-
woomba hotels —Lennons Broadbeach
Hotel, Ltd., Lennons Kirra Hotel Pty.
and Lennons Toowoomba Hotel, Ltd.
The shares of the Brisbane, Broadbeach
and Toowoomba cos. are listed on Bris-
bane, Sydney and Melbourne ’Changes,
and, a.t a later date, shareholders in these
cos. will be offered shares in a new
public co. which will take-over and
enlarge the Kirra hotel.
(On June 30 last Lennons Hotel, Ltd.,
held 100,000 of the 303,000 shares issued by
Broadbeach, 50,000 of the 202,500 issued
by Toowoomba, and 55,000 of Kirra’s
106,500. The capital of the three cos. is all
in £1 oads.) y
Lennons Hotel, Ltd., was formed in 1947
and bought Lennons Hotel from the City
Mutual Life in the same year. A shortage
of first-class hotel-accommodation in
Queensland’s fast-growing capital en-
sured the success of the co., and, with
profitable extensions to the hotel (rebuilt
in 1941), net earnings (£38,783 in 1949)
have exceeded £BO,OOO for the last two
terms, while the ord. div. has risen from
1\ p.c. to 15 p.c.
To finance further extensions and pro-
vide funds for investment in the asso-
ciated Lennons cos,, a one-for-one par
issue was made in 1955. When the
235,000 new £1 ords. are fully-paid later
this year the co. will have a paid capital
of £620,000, including £150,000 in 7 p.c.
prefs.
Heavy capital-expenditure and invest-
ments in the newly-formed associated
cos. tied-up a lot of money last term (to
June 30), and net profit edged forward
by only £652, to £81,615, after providing
an additional £BlOO for taxation (£52,500)
and £768 (to £8186) for depreciation:
r~ Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves, serves.f
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1952.. 42,905 5 10 31,000 11,905 62,946
1953.. 40,366 5 10 31,000 9,366 72,319
1954:. 60,639 5 12J 36,875 23,764 96,076
Assets revalued, £235,000 .. .. 331,076
1955.. 80,903 5 15 .42,750 38,213 369,289
Share-issue expenses, £9035 .. .. 360,254
1956.. 81,61.5 7 15 53,094 28,521 388,775
f After deducting goodwill, now £9136.
Commencing last term, the div. rate on
the prefs. was increased from 5 p.c. to
7 p.c., and, after meeting the larger div.,
earnings represented a return of 25 p.c.
on average ord. capital, compared with
30.8, 22.6, 13.9, 15 and 18.4 p.c. back
to 1951. Ord. div. was unchanged at
15 p.c.
The new ords. were paid to only ss.
at June 30, and to provide extra finance
for additions to freeholds (up £78,540), a
£93,750 increase in investments and
advances of £141,982 to the associated
cos., £300,000 was borrowed, under mort-
gage, from the City Mutual Life:-4-
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Preference .. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Ordinary . . 235,000 235,000 297,199
Reserves .. .. 96,170 369,389 397,910
Mortgage .. .. 300,000
Creditors . . .. 43,430 44,960 40,719
Tax provision .. 40,545 51,035 58,906
Final divs. .. 21,375 24,312 30,708
£586,526 £874,702 £1,275,442
Shares associated
cos 7,500 101,250
Freehold, etc. .. 404,164 655,072 733,612
Plant, etc'. ... 100,143 1031432 111,141
&toc k • • • • 16,721 14,705 15,805
Advances subsids. 62,018 204,000
Debtors . . . . 12,109 13,372 15,685
Cash and bonds . . 53,288 18,502 84,813
Goodwill .. .. ioi 101 9,136
£586,526 £874,702 £1,275,442
Paid capital is well supported by
reserves, which benefited to the extent
of £235,000 from a fairly conservative
revaluation of freeholds in mid-1955.
At the end of the term there was £84,813
(up £66,311) in cash and £172,801 of
uncalled capital.
Record earnings are claimed for the
first half of the current term, and an
interim div., at the \2\ p.c. rate indicated
at the time of the new issue, is payable
this month. Earnings should continue to
improve, the additions to the hotel now
nearing completion will increase its
capacity by 70 p.c., and some return
from the large investments in other
Lennons cos. can be expected next term.
Including uncalled capital there was a
net tangible cover of £6 15s. Bd. for the
prefs. and 365. lid. for the £1 ords. at
the close of the term. The f.-p. ords.
last sold at 375. 9d., to return 7.9 p.c. from
a 15 p.c. div. or 6.6 p.c. from a 12y p.c.
distribution. The contribs. paid to 15s.
bring around 31s.
The Adelaide Chemical and
Fertiliser Co., Ltd.
A S a general rule, Australian soils are
deficient in the naturally occurring
elements necessary to sustain plant-life,
and for this reason the country’s agricul-
tural and pastoral industries rely heavily
on chemical fertilisers to maintain soil-
fertility.
Of these the most widely-used is super-
phosphate. According to the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics, a third of
earnings from rural industries depends on
the use of superphosphate, and 80 p.c.
of all cropped areas and improved
pastures use superphosphate annually.
The next-most-important fertiliser is
ammonium sulphate, used extensively in
the sugarcane-industry. Australia pro-
duces all its superphosphate needs and,
since July, 1956, when the Electrolytic
Zinc Co.’s plant at Risdon, Tasmania,
started up, now has the capacity to more


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
MAGNETIC ORE SEPARATOR
Manufactured by Rapid Magnetic Machines, Ltd., England,
4~: .
p
for the recovery of
Zircon Rutile, etc., from
beach and other sands
and magnetic minerals.
Machines also for re-
moval of iron, etc., from
various products. Lift-
ing Magnets, Clutches,
Holding or Clamping
Magnets, Magnetic Floor
Sweepers, etc.
Send for Bulletin to
the Agents :
GUTHRIDGE PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.,
Manufacturers of Curvilinear Concentrating Tables, Water
Filters, Everlasting Steam Valves, etc.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies : . A ;.. ... 2 lr
Yearly Subscription.. ; .. 22/6
m
A
C J
c 0 CO
A/
n
All your
Banking
under one
roof
Modern facilities for all
IT is sometimes more economical
and always more convenient to
conduct all your banking in the one
office.
This Bank and its subsidiary,
C.B.C. Savings Bank Limited, offer
you full banking facilities "under
one roof."
Deposits in the C.B.C.
Savings Bank Limited are
guaranteed by the parent
company.
The Bank's officers
will be glad fo tell you
how its service can help
you.
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
SAVINGS BANK
LIMITED
than meet its present require-
ments of ammonium sulphate.
Here are the production figures
for all types of fertilisers:
Australian Fertiliser Production.*
Super- Ammonium Super- Complete
phosphate, Sulphate,mixtures,Manures,
•Tne, Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
’51.. 1,548,000 67,900 194,300 34,400
’52.. 1,597,000 63,800 199,000 37,100
’53.. 1,581,000 70,200 224,600 41,500
’54.. 1,771,00 0 7 0,8 0 0 296,200 4 5,900
’55.. 1,961,00 0 7 8,4 0 0 389,600 4 6.500
’56.. 2,126,000 75,000 t t
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau of
Census and Statistics, Canberra.
T Not available.
Because of the accumulation of
stocks following last year’s wet
weather, the smaller wheat
sowings, and an increase in
prices, output of superphos-
phate this year is running below
the 1956 level.
The Adelaide Chemical and
Fertiliser Co. has its works at
Port Adelaide and Dry Creek in
South Australia, where the
expansion of manufacturing and
rural industry has been proceed-
ing very vigorously.
In 1951, to overcome a
handicapping shortage of
sulphuric acid, the co. joined
with other South Australian
superphosphate producers in a
venture to manufacture acid
from sulphur-bearing iron
pyrites. Two new cos. were set
up, Nairne Pyrites, Ltd. (in
which Adelaide Chem. owns a
quarter-interest), and Sulphuric
Acid, Ltd. (a third-share). Pro-
duction at the Birkenhead acid-
works (capacity 100,000 tons a
year) began in August, 1955.
Returns from the venture are
expected to be only small
initially. The aim is to supply
acid to the fertiliser cos. as
cheaply as possible.
Last year Adelaide Chem. sold
142,000 tons (up 7000 tons) of
superphosphate and recorded
“satisfactory” increases in sales
of acid and chemicals. After
providing £BO,OOO (up £17,000)
for taxation, net profit was
£9450 higher at £122,222:
t Dividends —^
4f p.c. Re-
J’ne, Profit. Pref. Ord. serves.
£ & & £
Assets revalued, £56,427 . . 193,440
’49.. 32,98 0 4,156 1 0 p.cA22,350 199,914
Profit sale assets, £6678 . . 206,592
Share premiums, £l5O .. 206,742
’50.. 42,672 7,125 12|p.c.=27,953 214,336
Sub. previous years, £10,566 224,902
To special tax provision,
£12,000 .. .. 212,902
’51.. 47,673 7,125 12ip.e.=27,963 225,487
Tax underprovided, £8173 217,314
Profit sale assets, £15,440 232,754
’52.. 43,99 7 7,125 12Jp.c.=27,963 241,663
Assets revalued, £202,158.. 443,821
Share premiums, £25,000.. 468,821
Reserves capitalised, £74,596 394,225
’53.. 64,5 6 7 7,125 l2ip.c.-83,685 417,982
Share premiums, £25,000.. 442,982
’54,. 127,435 7,125 12ip.c.=18,750 514,542
Tax underprovided, £7335 507,207
’55..112.772 7,125 12ip.c.=r50,000 562,851
’56..122,222 7,125 12$ „ „ 50,000 627,948
The £122,222 covered the pref.
div. and was 28.8 p.c. on ord.
capital, as against 26.4, 30.8, 21.3,
16.5, 18.1, 15.9 and 12.9 p.c.
back to 1949.
Total depreciation charged
against earnings isn’t disclosed,
but since fixed assets were
revalued in 1953 the provision
has been made at the “normal”
rate on the basis of the new
plant-values. The sum not
allowed for taxation purposes
has been credited to depreciation
reserve and not deducted from
the assets. In the table this
excess and the appropriations to
plant-replacement reserve (to-
gether last term they amounted
to £55,157, up £7307) are
treated as profit. For the
seventh year in a row ord. div.
was 12y p.c.
Capital-growth has been
moderate. Ord. shareholders got
a one-for-three bonus-issue in
1953, then 100,000 new £1 ords.
were offered to the public at a
premium of 10s. At present paid
capital is £550,000 of which
£150,000 is in 4| p.c. prefs.
Last year the co. completed a
new phosphate-rock grinding-
mill at Port Adelaide and it is
now planning to put up a new
superphosphate - storage shed
(final capacity, 45,000 tons) with
modern bagging and loading
facilities. Additional land has
been bought both at the Port
and Dry Creek works to provide
space for expansion.
Finances are in sound shape:
Paid capital— 1955. 1956.
Pref £150,000 £150,000
Ord 400,000 400,000
Reserves .. .. 562,856 627,953
Creditors .. .. 160,998 151,589
Tax provision .. 63,000 81,989
Pinal divs. .. 33,562 33,562
£1,370,416 £1,445,096
Freeholds .. 206,324 222,417
Plant .. .. 274,941 441,584
Shares .. .. 140,005 150,005
Stock . . . . 140,757 245,090
Debtors . . .. 306,623 109,502
Cash, bonds .. 401,766 276,495
£1,870,416 £1,445,093
Creditors represented only
2s. 7d. in the £ of shareholders’
funds, and liquids exceeded all
liabilities (£267,140) by £363,947.
At 455. Bd. the £1 ords. are
priced to return 5.4 p.c. on the
basis of a 12| p.c. div. The
prefs., at 16s. 6d., yield 5.7 p.c.
Net tangibles are £7 17s. Id. the
prefs. and 51s. 4d. the ords.
Interim ord. div this term is
unchanged at 5 p.c.
Tin and Strategic
Minerals, Ltd.
A N offer to buy the co.’s
“mining assets” at Green-
bushes (W.A.) has been received
by the board of Tin and Strategic
Minerals, Ltd.
The co., formed in 1954, has
yet to pay a div. Insufficient
working-capital, delay in dispos-
ing of the tantalite concentrates
produced, and, more recently, a
fall in the price of tantalite have
been among the factors respon-
sible for £33,256 of accumulated
losses.
Last year negotiations with
Siamese Tin Syndicate, Ltd., for
the introduction of new capital,
failed when Tin and Strategic
Minerals was unable to renew
its options over certain leases on
“reasonable” terms.
On June 30, 1956, fixed assets
(including mining tenements and
mine development, £76,085)
amounted to £157,725, and
liabilities, mainly secured,
exceeded current assets by
£43,600. Paid capital, £150,000,
is in 2s. 6d. stockmnits, recent
sales bringing 9d., although
buyers are currently offering
only 4d. for the scrip.
South West Tin Pty. (to be
incorporated) has now offered
£lOO,OOO for the co.’s mining
assets payable over the next
three years. The vendor co. has
the right to acquire a quarter of
South West Tin’s paid capital for
£30,000, and may exercise this
right, either between June, 1959,
and February, 1960 (when the
last purchase-instalment is due),,
or on receiving advice that the
purchaser intends to make full
payment before the due date.
Peko Mines, N-L.
npHE big drop in copper prices
A has cut earnings from the
Peko mine (Tennant Creek,
N.T.) by almost 50 p.c. Profit
for the first half of the current
term was £107,890, compared
with £422,615 for the year to
June 27, ’56. Pgid capital is
£784,161.
However, at a time when low
copper prices are converting
payable ore into marginal ore,
Peko is in the fortunate position
of having large, high-grade
reserves going from 7.5 p.c. to
9.9 p.c. copper. The board is
pushing ahead with plans to
lift throughput to 400 tons a
day by the end of the current
term, an improvement of 100
p.c. in 12 months. As the lower
earnings are insufficient to cover
both development work and an
interim div., it has been decided
to miss the div. rather than
postpone the increase in
revenue expected with greater
production. The 2s. 6d. f.-p.
stock-units last sold at 7s. Id.
Coffs Harbor Rutile, N.L.
A TREATMENT-plant for the
ewly- formed Coffs
Harbour Rutile, N.L., is now
nearing completion, and the
board anticipates that produc-
tion will reach “full capacity’*
by next June. Earlier it was
stated that the plant would be
capable of producing 100 tons
of rutile and a slightly greater
quantity of zircon each week.
A further 11,000 tons of
heavy mineral has been proved
in addition to thd 12,400 tons of
rutile and 15,579 tons of zircon
mentioned in the prospectus.
Forward sales at “satisfactory”
prices have been arranged for
“portion” of the 1957 and 1958
production.
The co. has an issued capital
of £317,625—1,148,000 of the ss.
shares being paid to only 3s. The
contribs. recently sold at 2s. 7d.
The scrip is now listed on Sydney
and Adelaide ’Changes.


Women’s Letters
MELBORNE
This month’s Red Cross appeal has
included a march through the city by
the combined Services, Red Cross trans-
port-drivers and a small contingent of
police-trainees. Thousands lined the
streets, and in brilliant sunshine the
Governor, Sir Dallas Brooks, took the
salute at the Town Hall.
After the march there was a luncheon
in the Town Hall reception-room, a
“thank-you” gesture to those who had
helped organise the march. Dame Mary
Daly, who is chairman of the Red
Cross functions-comnfittee, was hostess.
Present were Lord Mayor Sir Trank
Selleck, Minister for Health Cameron
and Mrs. Cameron (who is superintendent
of Camber\yell Red Cross company).
Captain and Mrs. J. A. Walsh, Lieut.-
General and Mrs. A. R. Garrett, Air-
Vice-Marshal W. L. Hely, Colonel A.
Spowers (chairman of the Victorian
Division of Red Cross), Sir John Allison
(chairman of the Central Citizens’
Appeal Committee), Mrs. Eccles McKay,
Chief Officer Elizabeth Hill (director of
the W.R.A.N.S.), Colonel Kathleen Best
(W.R.A.A.C.) and her assistant, .Major
Margaret Williamson, and Miss Sybil
Irving, of Red Cross.
☆ ☆
One-hundred-apd-fifty guests were
invited to a house-warming party given
by Assistant U.S. Air Attache Lieut.-
Colonel Collas Harris and Mrs. Harris,
who with their family recently moved
into the former home in Toorak of Sir
Bernard and Lady Heinze. Red and
yellow gladioli decorated the reception-
rooms. The hostess wore a frock of white
acetate-silk printed in blue and green.
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs.
Earl Daum, Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Kil-
lough, Colonel Tom Blarney and his
wife (she’s an American), Captain
Gilbert Farnfield, R.N., and Mrs.
Farnfield, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Bryant,
Mr. and Mrs. Angus Jones, U.S. Consul
Bushwaller and Mrs. Bushwaller, U.S.
Consul Carleton Brower and his wife,
Air-Vice-Marshal Douglas Candy and
Mrs. Candy, Mr. and Mrs. Bob Gove, the
John Reillys, and Mr. and Mrs. Bing
Molyneux.
☆ ☆ ☆
A blue-and-gold decor was used at
St. Kilda Palais de Danse for the Loreto
Ball. The Governor and Lady Brooks
were received by president of the Loreto
Old Girls’ Association, Mrs. John
Dynon, who later presented to their
Excellencies 30 debutantes wearing indi-
vidual white gowns and carrying trails
of gardenias and, stephanotis tied with
streamers of green-velvet ribbon.
Lady Brooks wore a lovely Princess-
line gowp of white silk-taffeta, the skirt
scattered with tiny taffeta roses and
diamente, the hem being of finely-pleated
tulle. Mrs. Dynon’s lilac satins were
studded with opalescent beads and
diamente.
In the official party were Mr. and
Mrs. Adrian Wright, Dr. and Mrs.
Edward Ryan, Mr. and Mrs. Brian
O’Keefe, and Mrs. Bing Molyneux (in
full-skirted gown of pale-grey spotted
satin). Mrs. John Calder’s striking gown
was of white gold-spotted silk, with bands
of gold at hem and sides of the slim
skirt.
☆ ☆ ☆
Mary, twin daughter of Captain C. A.
Parker, R.A.N. (retired), of Kew, was
married (with Nuptial Mass following) at
Xavier College Chapel, to Paul, second
son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Fitzgerald,
of Hartwell. Mary’s gown of white
organza had a finely-tucked panel edged
with narrow guipure-lace down the front,
from the high, curved neckline to the
hem. At the back a similar panel
extended into a tiny train. The sleeves,
set into the dropped shoulder-line, were’
puffed in fullness from the elbow, and
the waist-length tulle veil fell from a
head-hugging velvet bow encrusted with
lily-of-the-valley. She carried a marker
of stephanotis in her Missal.
Attending the bride were her twin
sister Susan and Maev O’Collins. Their
cream ribbed silk-organza frocks had
satin sashes emphasising the Empire-
line, knotted at the back of the normal
waistline to fall in long ends. Reception
for 100 guests was held in a marquee in
the garden of the bride’s home.
Clyde School, Woodend, was the venue
for past pupils and parents of present-day
pupils, when the Governor, who Was
accompanied by Lady Brooks, opened the
school s new War Memorial building.
Lady Brooks wore an attractive frock of
white sheer with a white hat laden with
blue chiffon flowers. With the chairman
of the school council (Mr. T. Alston) was
his wife, who chose an ink-blue silk-
shantung frock and a white straw hat.
A navy frock-and-jacket ensemble was
worn by Headmistress Miss Olga Hay.
Lady Murdoch, who is a member of
the school council, wore charcoal-grey
silk coin-spotted in white, and a matching
grey feather-cap. With Peter Howson,
M.H.R., and Mrs. Howson was Mrs.
Howson’s sister from South Australia,
Mrs, Michael Hawker. Other inter-
state visitors were Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey
Watson (N.S.W.), whose daughter Jenni-
fer is a prefect this year at Clyde.
Patricia Baird, only daughter of Dr.
and Mrs. John R. Heath, of Toorak, has
announced her engagement to Graeme,
only son of Mrs. H. Laws, of Queen’s-
road. Pat and Graeme first met at Mt.
Buller, both being skiing enthusiasts.
Wedding will take place at St. Johns,
Toorak, late in April. The ring is a
diamond, solitaire with baguette-diamond
shoulders.
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh lent her lovely
Toorak home for a parade of French and
Italian fashions, and also organised the
function, which was in aid of the Queen
Victoria Hospital and the War Widows’
Guild. Fashions were from Le Louvre
Salon, Collins-street. Banks of colorful
hydrangeas in the garden and pale-pink
waterlilies in the large fishpond made a
delightful background for the manne-
quins. Dame Mabel Brookes, president
of the hospital, and Mrs. G. Vasey, pre-
sident of the War Widows’ Guild, were
present.
Mrs. Sleigh wore a French-model frock
of turquoise silk-taffeta. Lillian Wight-
man, of Le Louvre, chose a black
Alenfon-lace ensemble. Mrs. Dorothy
Gitsham’s silk frock was in black-and-
white tonings. Large pink roses trimmed
the smart hat Mrs. Massey Burnside wore
with her attractive black frock. Mrs.
Ronald Nott also chose a black ensemble.
Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs. Bill
Nankervis, Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Jones,
and Mrs. Adrian Nelken. Those serving
refreshments included the Mildred twins
(Elizabeth and Patricia), Mrs. Douglas
Bowden and Mrs. Hedley Ladd.
☆ ☆ ☆
A party given by Mrs. L. J. Dooling
in the garden of her penthouse-home on
top of the Commonwealth Bank netted
£ll3, and this will help defray expenses
of the Mediterranean Fair which the
Town and Gown Guild will hold at the
University on May 17 and 18. At this -
function the grounds will be transformed
to resemble the Mediterranean coastline,
complete with the Rock of Gibraltar and
casinos and bistros. There will be stroll-
ing musicians, stalls stocked with goods
representative of Mediterranean countries,
hot and cold meals and snacks (all with a
Continental flavor), coffee-stalls and
Neapolitan ice-cream stalls, as well as all
types of amusement-stalls. Miss Myra
Roper, principal of the University
Women’s College, will organise a tropical
pageant, and at night there will be a
University revue in the Union Theatre.
SYDNEY
It was quite a colorful scene on the
lawn outside the Mater Hospital at North
Sydney when the Governor-General, Sir
William Slim, and Lady Slim paid a visit
there during the week. All the doctors'
wives wore their garden-party hats; the
Eastern Command Band, in their scarlet
coats, and the cadets of the St. Aloysius’
College Corps looked particularly well
turned-out; and the Sisters in their
white habits and the nurses in their blue
capes added to the bright picture.
Their Excellencies were received by
chairman of the board Mr. Justice
McClemens, medical-superintendent Dr.
H. M. Saxby, Mother M. Baptista, Dr.
T. G. Biggs, and Captain L. Skewes..
They spent nearly three hours at “the
hospital, visiting the wards, chatting with
the patients and having aftemoon-tea
with the doctors and their wives ; Mrs.
Tom Bateman acting as hostess.' Among
those presented to Sir William and Lady
Slim were Mr. W. Jack, M.P., and Mrs.
Jack; Mr. Ray Maher, M.L.A., and Mrs.
Maher ; North Sydney’s Mayor Lincoln
and Mrs. Lincoln ; Miss Dollis
McClemens, and Dr. and Mrs. Hales
Wilson.
On the following day Lady Slim paid
a visit to the Spastic Centre at Mosman.
She was received by Centre-president Mr.
Albert Lee, honorary superintendent Mrs.
N. McLeod, medical-director Dr. C.
Burton Bradley, and Mrs. W. Brugen,
president of the Voluntary Workers’
Association. On this occasion 10-year-
old Diane Scanlon, of CeSsnock,
presented a bouquet of flowers to her
Excellency.
V V V
There were several very lovely
weddings during the week, one of the
most outstanding being that of Mary
Stephen, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Bob
Stephen, of Edgecliffe, to Allan Coogan,
who is the twin son of the F. C. Coogans,
of Aroondal, Tenterfield. The bride’s
white satin dress was trimmed with white
Alenfon-lace, and her tiny white pillbox-
hat in white satin encrusted with pearls
held her three-tiered veil in place, Pink
satin dresses and wide pink hats were
worn by her attendants, Mrs. lan Bell,
Rosemary Ashton (Mandurama) and
Wendy Lloyd Jones. Sandra Arnott was
flowergirl. The bridegroom was attended
by Andrew Clayton, Lionel Sandy and
Philip Simpson. After the wedding at
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, a reception for
250 was held at the Pickwick Club.
Louise Grant, of Auburn, has just
announced her engagement to Fred
Eckardt, of Newport Beach. Louise is
a commercial artist, and in her spare
time works with the Spastic Centre
Younger Set. Her fiance is a life saver,
of Manly Surf Club. Photo by Norton
Trevaire.
St. Philip’s Church, Church Hill, was
chosen by Mr. and Mrs. Peter Manchee
for their wedding on Wednesday, and the
chaplain of The King’s School, Rev.
John Price, officiated. Mrs. Manchee was
formerly Mary Kirkby, younger daughter
of the Gordon Kirkbys, of Wilga, Moree.
The bridegroom is the only son of the
Alan Manchees, of Weetah, Moree. Mrs.
Ronald Hunter, Mrs. Murray Cole, Anne
Manchee and Rens Cory attended the
bride ; Philip Bramma, Fred Kirkby, Colin
Crowe and Wallace Farquhar attended
the bridegroom. The bride’s lovely dress
was of white pleated nylon tulle and lace.
The reception was held at the Australia.
Court News Corner:
When the Queen went to Portugal
No one could tell
That the people would call her
Queen Isabelle.
But news on the French tour is,
Hot from the press.
She’ll be Elisabeth
(Spelt with an “s”).
☆ ☆ ☆
Times Have Changed Section: Noted
how everyone now says they’re “in”
ships. So correct! In the pas£ one said,
“I am going on the Mariposa.” Now one
has to say, “I’m going in Mariposa.”
Lots of people arrived in Mariposa and
went away in it (her) during the week.
There were lots, too, in Tulare —Ameri-
can sailors who are visiting Sydney “as
a reward” for having done a good job
somewhere else.
☆ ☆ ☆
An interesting annual meeting was that
of the Deaf and Dumb and Blind
Children’s Institution held on Wednesday
last. Demonstrations were given by
children who had been believed com-
pletely deaf, but who could identify
different sounds, bells, whistles, etc.,
recognise animal-noises and, at a later
stage, repeat words and short sentences.
No child, said Mr. C. H. Chrismas, who
presided, is absolutely deaf. There is
always some slight ability to grasp sound
or vibration, and on this the teachers
work.
& v v
Pianist Beatrice Tange and singer
Virginia Paris, who both leave Australia
shortly for Europe, were the artists at
the delightful musicale held by the Sydney
Music Club on Wednesday evening at
Federation Hail. Guest-of-honor was
Professor Donald Peart, with Mrs.
Peart, and also present were German
Consul-General Dr. Mueller and Mrs.
Mueller, Mr. W. James and Dr. and Mrs.
Blaski. Miss Tange, who is president
of the club, is going abroad for a concert-
tour of England and Europe. During
her absence Mrs. Amy Moran will act
as president. Virginia Paris, who later
in the week gave a concert at the Town
Hall, leaves for England and later
America after five years in Sydney.
# # #
Education note: One of the new
season’s colors it taupe, revived after
some years of slumber. This is quite
an appropriate metaphor, for “taupe”
means a dormouse, and the color is a
mousy one. “To sleep like a ‘taupe’ ”
was the correct form of “to sleep like a
top” (so they say). The pronunciation
is approximately “tope,” not “topay,”
for “taupe” with a final accent is another
word, and means felted.
CANBERRA
The Goulburn Polo and Picnic Race
Club had a perfect summer’s day for the
annual race-meeting at Springfield, Goul-
burn, on Thursday. Shady, wide-
brimmed hats and cool cotton frocks
were the popular choice of women race-
goers. President of the club Mr. A. I.
Maple-Brown entertained members and
guests at afternoon-tea in a marquee at
the course; Mrs. Maple-Brown wore a
large grey silk-straw hat dimmed in
black with her pale-grey shantung frock.
Others noted were Mrs. Jim Broadbent,
of Crookwell, in a slim-skirted brightly-
patterned linen frock ; Mrs. Pat Osborne,
Snr., of Willeroo; Mrs. A. T. Osborne,
her coffee-colored linen frock accented
by a large white hat; Mrs. Peter
Watson in pink linen worn with a small
white hat; and Mrs. H. J. Hoskins in a
full-skirted' white cotton frock patterned
in small blue flowers.
☆ ☆ ☆
The reception-rooms of Canberra
House were decorated with bowls of
lovely roses when the High Commis-
sioner for the U.K. and Lady Carring-
ton gave an “at-home” on Friday. The
hostess looked cool and charming in a
full-skirted short frock patterned in
bright tones on a dark-green background.
Among the guests were Lord and Lady
Lindsay ; Mr. and Mrs. Murray Tyrrell;
Colonel and Mrs. Hassett, of Duntroon ;
Mrs. Fack, wife of the First Secretary of
the Netherlands Embassy, attractive in a
black linen slim-skirted frock and small
hat in white felt; Dr. and Mrs. P.
Calvert, her grey cloche-hat trimmed in
white violets; Mr. and Mrs. R. Hull, her
black cocktail-frock patterned in gold
and worn with a small feathered hat;
Mr. and Mrs. George Romans; and
Mr. and Mrs. Tony Inman.


THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster,
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
No. 83 of 1956.
TO JEAN HENDERSON late of Richmond
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA
MARGARET EVANS has filed her Peti-
tion in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 2665 of 1956 praying for Divorce
from her husband LEIGH EVANS on the
grounds of his adultery with you This
notice is given to you so that you may
have an opportunity to apply to this
Court to be let defend the charge if you
so desire A copy of the Petition may be
obtained at the office of JOHN DAVID
NORTON, Solicitor, 393 George Street,
Sydney free of charge on application by
you.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA—In Divorce.
TO MAXWELL ERNEST WELLING of
Devonport in Tasmania but whose present
address is unknown —TAKE NOTICE that
a Petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a Notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition of
AVIS RAYMA WELLING of 31 Stewart
Street Devonport in Tasmania Married
Women praying for a dissolution of
marriage on the ground of desertion
IN DEFAULT of your so appearing*you
will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the
said, charges proved and pronounce judg-
ment there in your absence notwithstand-
ing AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid within thirty
days after the publication of this notice
an appearance must be entered at the
Principal Registry of the Supreme Court,
Macquarie Street, Hobart, in Tasmania.
DATED the 15th day of February, 1957.
—H. R. DOBBIE, Principal Registrar.
BUTLER McINTYRE & BUTLER, 22
Murray Street, Hobart, . Agents for
ARCHER GUVT JACKSON & GOW, of
Devonport, in Tasmania, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862,
Head Office: GEORGIA AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX, ORWELL
PHILLIPS, R. J. VICARS, G. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Melbourne Music Festival
Festivals of music which are
confined to one particular class
of composition are apt to be dull
affairs, but the crowds which
have been pouring into the
Melbourne Town Hall for the
concerto frenzy have had
nothing to complain of on the
score of variety, originality and
excitement. The third concert
was a good example—a bit of
Bach, then Margaret Sutherland
followed by Hanson, an arrange-,
ment by Siloti of a concerto by
Vivaldi (a very acceptable
combination), and the evening
tastefully concluded with Mozart.
First on the programme was
Bach’s lovely concerto in
C Major for two pianos and
orchestra. The work consisted
of three movements: the allegro,
containing the fascinating dia-
logue with its subtle contrasts ;
the adagio, in which the two
pianos have it all on their own
and the orchestra sits sileht; and
finally the ecstatic and arresting
fuga. Sitting at their twin
instruments duo-pianists Pamela
Page and Max Olding brought
a fluent freshness to their job,
especially in the second move-
ment.
Margaret Sutherland' has
already established herself as a
leading figure in .contemporary
Australian music, both as an
interpreter and creator. Un-
fortunately her short concerto for
string-orchestra failed in some
way to match her high reputa-
tion. This may have been the
fault of the orchestra of Sir
Bernard Heinze, for one felt that
if the composer had something
to say, it was being said in a
rather dreary manner.
Only in the second movement,
in slow minuet-time, where the
music followed a traditional line,
did the work seem impressive.
The crescendoes and the explo-
sives in the last part found the
music drifting again into the all-
too-familiar pattern of composers
trying to express themselves in
terms that, in reality, are foreign
to them.
A Concerto for Trumpet and
Orchestra by Sydney teacher and
composer Raymond Hanson got
a mixed reception. The daring
and original use of the trumpet
as a solo instrument did not seem
to please some people, possibly
because they had read in their
programmes that the idea of
writing the opus came to the
composer as a result of experi-
ence gained as arranger and
conductor of a 16-piece jazz-
band.
Fitting music into categories
is, of course, a sheer waste of
time. Calling Van Gogh a post-
impressionist does not make his
pictures better or worse than
those of baroque artist Rubens ;
and call music traditional,
classical, jazz, popular or what-
you-will—if it is sincere it is
certainly worth while.
The jazz-element, if we can
call it that, in this trumpet
concerto did nothing but improve
it. Without that uninhibited and
forceful element it would have
been little more than ordinary.
Realising the potentialities of
the trumpet, Hanson used its
great musical range and
variation to considerable effect.
We take for granted that
Handel’s magnificent trumpet
solos are the be-all and end-all
of trumpet-playing. But it took
ex-jazzman Hanson to show
us the changes of mood that
can be accomplished, and soloist
Standish Roberts displayed this
admirably. The final high-
pressured chromatics might have
been a test of trumpeting-
technique, but it was also a
somewhat unnecessary test of
how much human ears could
stand.
Back in the comforting atmo-
sphere of classical tradition, the
audience could settle back
without an awful fear of
those “moderns” upsetting its
musical equilibrium. This was
achieved with Vivaldi’s serene
and beautiful D Minor Concerto
arranged by Siloti as an organ
concerto. The strong statements
of the first movement were
repeated and echoed by the
string-section, followed later by
some impressive work by solo
organist Lance Hardy.
Mozart’s Concerto in E Flat
Major completed the programme,
and pianists Pamela Page and
Max Olding reappeared once
again to charm the audience with
Mozart at his typical best. The
music develops into an, apparent
contest between the two pianists
in a dialogue, of remarkable
beauty.
The rot set in at the final
concert. Possibly suffering from
too much concerto, the orchestra
took Bach’s B Minor Suite at a
languid pace, and was even
slower in the Third Brandenburg
Concerto. It was pulled out by
John Glickman and Sybil Cope-
land, whose fiddles sang through
Bach’s Two-Violin Concerto.
Immaculate as ever, Hephzibah
Menuhin brought the fortnight’s
business to a brilliant conclusion
with her superb playing in the
Brahms D Minor Piano
Concerto.
❖ ❖ ❖
Odnoposoff
The most satisfying item
offered at the Sydney Con. con-
cert which wound-up the
violinist’s Sydney season was
Chausson’s “Poeme,” a work
stamped with the style and feel-
ing which marks so much of the
music of this pupil of Cesar
Franck. There are passages of
exquisite lyrical beauty in the
final pages.
These qualities found ready
response in Odnoposoff, one of
whose chief gifts is his ability
to extract a lovely, fine-drawn
tone —like that of perfept colora-
tura singing—from the extreme
heights of his instrument. There
was distinction, too, in the
spontaneous emotion he con-
jured from the other end of the
gamut.
The first half of the pro-
gramme was given-over to two
show-pieces: Tartini’s “Devil’s
Trill” Sonata and Max Reger’s
§onata in D Minor. Both are
technical tours de force, requir-
ing little in the line of interpre-
tative concentration.
❖ ❖ ❖
Marathon
[By Herbert Holman,
The opinion held by many
serious musicians, that opera-
going is a lazy way of appre-
ciating music, is certainly not
true of Wagner. To hear “The
Mastersingers” involves a good
six-and-a-half hours, including
travelling-time. It is too much,
altogether, yet the Covent
Garden production is so compel-
ling as to keep an audience silent
and still from six-o’clock until
quarter-past-eleven.
One imagines that the
orchestra, about 80-strong, is not
strong enough by Wagnerian
standards. The Overture sounds
curiously insufficient in decibels,
but once the curtain is raised and
the principals have the attention
the balance is good.
Erich Witte produces, and also
sings Walther von Stolzing
(referred to in the English
libretto as “Sir Walter”). His
voice lacks power and lyricism
(perhaps the unaccustomed Eng-
lish words inhibit him), and his
style of acting is Continental.
His Sir Walter is a portly, suave
Young Lochinvar who has a
tendency to strut. This, without
doubt, is true to th’e composer’s
intentions, but one thinks (and
shouldn’t) of Teutonism,, of
Hitler youth and of the godlike
ideal. The mood and sentiments
are so' alien as to be quaint.
Witte’s production is superb
on all counts. The second act
is a poem, and the final scene,
with a “crowd” of some 200,
including trumpeters, is a triumph
of grouping. Joan Sutherland’s
Eva is a trifle wooden, but James
Pease’s Hans Sachs is beautifully
tranquil and dignified. Peter
Pears is unable to make much
of David, but Geraint Evans’s
Beckmesser is comic without
being facetious.
So much for the immediate
impact. Despite the length, and
the lack of interest dramatically,
the music is fascinating to listen
to, intellectually as well as
emotionally. The use of the
leitmotif, the restraint (the tunes
never cloy) and the organic suffi-
ciency are consummate. Yet
there is everything to be said for
compression. If some dis-
tinguished exponent of musical
arrangement (Dr. Gordon Jacob,
perhaps?) could be persuaded to
tackle the job, the operatic world
would be the richer. Satisfaction
ends where satiety begins, and
for all but the devotees three
hours in an opera-house is long
enough.
❖ ♦> *
“The Queen and the Rebels”
This play, put on by the
Union Repertory Company at
the University of Melbourne, is
by Ugo Betti, the playwright who
followed Pirandello, wrote 13
plays before and during the
regime of Mussolini, and died
at 60 with his head still on his
shoulders. How he succeeded in
putting over this play under the
nose of Musso it is difficult to
know ; possibly the Duce didn’t
understand it.
Betti follows in Pirandello's
philosophical footsteps in being
concerned with the “seems, is”
problem, and illustrates it with
a revolutionary political situ-
ation. In doing that he is not
like Shaw, who was interested
in man as a political animal.
Betti isn’t a bit interested in his
political nonsensicalities but in
the spirit, which is possibly why
he escaped Musso’s notice.
A prostitute is mistaken by a
revolutionary committee for the
queen it has deposed and driven
into hiding. Her protestations
that she is not a queen who has
spent her life lording it over her
adoring subjects, but an un-
fortunate outcast who has kept
her feet in this mad world by
currying favor with taxi-drivers
and crawling to policemen, are
unavailing. The committee
doesn’t believe her and it makes
i. date for her with a firing-
squad at four in the morning.
To justify its act the committee
demands that she sign a con-
fession setting out in detail all
the atrocious crimes she has
committed against the people:
if she does this she will be
pardoned. It is the first oppor-
tunity the poor girl has been
given in her whole life to perform
a truly queenly action. She
refuses, and a crackle of
musketry offstage brings down
the curtain. It is a moving story.
Betti’s characters may be
symbols for ideas or attitudes,
just as Shaw’s were, but, like
Shaw though without his humor,
he moves them about the board
so swiftly and with such
passionate conviction that their
puppet-nature is easily forgotten
and they seem to live, even
though we know they’re only
symbols.
The Union players played their
roles correctly. As the courtesan
who has had queenhood wished
upon her, Zoe Caldwell raved
and ranted, cajoled and per-
suaded at the top of her voice
and with great intensity of feel-
ing. She was melodrama in-*
carnate, yet preserved a natural
dignity which dominated the
proceedings. Tony Brown (as
the lady’s one-time lover and
now her jailer), Frank Gatliff
(as the lawgiver of the Revolu-
tion) and Frederick Parslow (as
its strong right arm badly
smashed by a reactionary bullet)
were good. They were all good,
in fact—probably because of
Wal Cherry’s direction. ,
M. G. S.
SHROVE TUESDAY
On the eve of Ash Wednesday, the way it was was this:
We’d have our plates out, and he’d have his
Old grey dressing-gown, the cuffs pushed-up,
The batter and the lemons and the pan lined-up.
If someone spilt the sugar ’twas good luck, and no
mistake —
Till his quiet tongue flayed the pelts from off the Irish
ignoramuses
He’d gotten from the superstitious woman—and she’d quake
With laughter, and he’d fust as likely turn around and
blame us as
Herself, now solemn as a judge. (And will yez all be quiet!
'Can’t y’ see the art that’s in it!) Tossed without a wrinkle.
Paper-thin and syrup oozing. Pancake Tuesday’s diet —
Another squeeze of lemon now, another sugar-sprinkle.
He with the pint-mug of old days’ prospecting,
Us all with his moustache-cups, sucking through the holes,
And she with all the elegance, because she lived expecting
The Last Trump to catch us with the polish off our souls.
On the eve of Ash Wednesday, that was the way it went.
At breakfast-time the tea was poured in white cups, thick
and plain.
The lemons leered, the manna gone, the dreams and syrup
spent —
A year, maybe, before he tossed the pancakes up again.
N.S.W.
JOYCE LEE.
Artbursts
Dobell’s Quayle
This is not the season for
Quayle ; but the press and public
have at least been invited to
shoot at —or admire —Dobell’s
portrait of Quayle as Falstaff:
a tribute to Dobell’s standing as
an artist when you must go all
the way to the N. S. Wales
National Gallery to see one small
painting.
He who paints Falstaff, like
the actor who plays him, com-
petes with the masters ; and the
interesting thing about this por-
trait is that Dobell has used, to
much a greater extent than in his
previous paintings, the glazing
technique of the Old Masters.
In newspaper reproductions
the result looks smeary, like
some of Dobell’s looser oils of
the past. But, on inspection, it
is the reverse: remarkably firm
and fine; with the color richer
and much more subdued than
before.
It is in Dobell’s familiar
akimbo pose, by which he gets
movement. And the paint does
move ; but the portrait does not.
It is not particularly like
Anthony Quayle, so far as he
was like himself in Falstaff’s
whiskers and pillows. It is not
alive. It is an oddity.
Z* »:♦
Old and New
A mixed “autumn exhibition”
at Sydney Grosvenor Galleries
has a set of slight, lively sketches
from China by Elaine Haxton,
some unusually colorful small
oils of the ballet by William
Dargie, and then a mixed lot of
mostly minor pieces by Gruner,
Streeton, Julian Ashton and
other pillars of the past.
There is one exceptionally
pleasant landscape by Harley
Griffiths (senior), a good Lance
Solomon, and a masterly portrait
of a child by Tom Roberts,
beautifully modulated in tech-
nique and full of character.
❖ ❖
Adelaide Art Prize
Entries for the Royal Adelaide
Exhibition art-prize of £2OO
close on March 20. The prize
is for a “composition depicting
an Australian industrial subject”
in any medium. The judge will
be Mr. Hal Missingham.
Details from I.S.A. Chamber of
Manufactures, 12 Pirie-street,
Adelaide.


THE ALEASURE OF PIGS
By E.O. SCHLUNKE
i ‘ n ELL your wheat as pork,”
was the Remark with
L/ which Harry Steiner used
to arrest his fellow-
farmers in front of Marr’s store
on Saturday afternoons.
That was a good while ago,
when people still worked on
Saturdays, back in the time of
the depression when the latest
poke among the wheatmen
(though rather a grim one) was,
“Heard the latest? Wheat’s been
declared a noxious weed.” Then
he’d go on to tell how he did it.
“None of your half-a-dozen
grunters in a sty, like the cow-
cockies” —to put the best face on
it because most wheatmen
hadn’t much time for pigs or
other tiddly-winking sidelines —
“I run them like sheep, a
hundred of them in a- two-
hundred-acre paddock. They
feed themselves on grass most
of the day, and in the evening
they each get a couple of pounds
of wheat to fatten them. I put
it out by machine too, in long
, rows of troughs. None of your
jugging buckets around for me.”
Lots of men listened to him.
‘They’d listen to anything that
promised a lift in those two-
shillings-a-bushel days. And he
was quite a personality too.
Always dressed in a decent sort
of suit; lively brown eyes flash-
ing behind a pair of horn-
rimmed glasses which made him'
look thoughtful and studious
even to people who had known
him all their lives; a quick,
eager way of talking, and a
very self-confident manner.
He soon had lots of followers.
There were groups from whom
you’d hear nothing but pig all
Saturday afternoon, and though
the rest affected to regard them
as untouchables, it was pretty
hard to ignore their boast that
they were “getting, five-bob a
bushel for our wheat.”
A FTER a few years wheat
began to rise again and we
could get a fairly decent return
without putting it through the
complicated intestines of pigs.
The real wheatmen gave up the
porkers, but not Harry. He’d
either got into the habit of them,
or become too fond of them, or
something.
Perhaps, as some suggested,
it was because he’d got himself
elected as president of the Pig
Raisers’ Union of N.S.W. and
didn’t want to lose the glory of
conferring with important
people ; again, it might have been
only for the sake of Miss Lillian
Gishwater.
We first heard about her when
he told us that he was negotiating
with the Housewives’ League in
Sydney for the direct sale of
pig-meats from grower to con-
sumer. The middleman was to
be eliminated, and the processers
given only a limited fee. It was
to be the beginning of a new
era: “Lower the price to the
consumer; increase consump-
tion ; stabilise the price to the
grower.”
Miss Gishwater was a high
official in the Housewives’
League. We heard a great deal
more about her as time went on ;
and as Harry’s suits got smarter
and his haircuts more frequent
we started having a bit of fun
at his expense. Not that he
minded, although he was
becoming so important that
one man at a time wasn’t
enough for him to talk to in
front of Marr’s store; he’d
collect at least half-a-dozen
before opening that loqua-
cious mouth.
But, as Harry was so fond
of saying, farming is a busi-
ness, and even he had
ultimately to agree Jhat it no
longer paid to feed wheat to
pigs, though his union had
bullied price-fixers into increas-
ing the price of pig-meats again
and again.
T TARRY was prepared to do
anything to meet the situ-
ation except give up his pigs.
We’d hear of him going to
Leeton for h ail- d a m ag e d
peaches, or to Gundagai for the
seed-heads of broom-millet.
Wonderful what went down
the necks of those porkers;
blighted potatoes from Tumba-
rumba and moth-infected apples
from Batlow; the sweepings
from wheat-silos and oat-stacks,
and weevilly corn from city
grain-stores ; anything that could
be bought cheaply and in large
quantities. Then when all these
random harvests had been
garnered, began the carnivorous
era, and we knew that it must
be love, because there must have
been limits to what even Harry
would do for fame and pigs.
He learned that many country
butchers fed the offal from their
slaughter-yards to pigs, so he
looked around for cheap meat,
and discovered rabbits. In those
days the trappers sold only the
skins, so he followed them
around in his truck collecting the
carcasses. The pigs liked them,
developing dog-like habits of
tearing them apart and chew-
ing ... However, the trapping
season ended with the winter,
and Harry had to look elsewhere.
There was a severe drought,
so Harry became a heavy buyer
of cheap, skinny old sheep. To
get the best value from thjs form
of food, he constructed large
boilers, where he cooked the
sheep entire, and served the pigs
with a nauseous stew of meat,
bones, intestines and partly-
digested grass. If anyone
commented on his revolting
habits he’d put on his look of
well-informed superiority and
haul out letters from Miss Lillian
Gishwater congratulating ‘him
on the superior quality of the
bacon from his farm ; letters he
always carried about with him,
even when he was in his dirty
overalls, knee-deep in pigs.
The drought broke, and sheep,
even old skinny ones, became
dear again. But wheatfarms
were being mechanised at such
a rate that horses were absurdly
cheap, and soon Harry was
competing at horse-sales with the
knackers who bought them for
greyhounds and unguessable
purposes in Sydney.
Harry cut up and boiled the
horses too, and they proved
satisfactory fodder. He didn’t
have to buy all his horses, either.
Sometimes he’d hear of a horse
dying, and straightway he’d be
there in his truck, with his block-
and-tackle to load it up, and
take it home. Or if it was near by
he’d run over with his tractor
and drag it to his pigs. If he
happened to be very busy he’d
just tow the carcass into the
pigs’ paddock and let them do
their own carving and serving.
Harry lost much of his
popularity over this: there were
still many people to whom the
horse Was a sacred animal. So
there was little sympathy for
him when he had a setback. It
happened when he was delayed
on one of his foraging expedi-
tions. His pigs became so
hungry that they broke down
their fences 'and attacked his
sheep . . .
“It’s the meat diet,” the
neighbors said. “They’re getting
to be as bad as dingoes. They
might attack our sheep next
time.”
But Harry survived all that,
borne up, we all believed, by
his associations with important
people, and the thought that
Lillian Gishwater was soon
coming to visit his place.
MOW if Harry hadn’t been so
absorbed in pig h£ would
have thought twice before bring-
ing a refined city woman, to
whom pig-meats were something
you bought in hygienic cello-
phane wrappings out of a spot-
lessly clean refrigerator at the
delicatessen-store, to the realities
of pig on-the-hoof.
But no doubt he loved pigs
only a little less than he loved
Miss Gishwater, and he couldn’t
see that either would ever fail
him in any way. No one warned
him because we thought he’d
been getting not a little above
himself lately.
We had a good look at Lillian
Gishwater when she arrived. She
was not one of those astringent
feminists we half-expected to
see as an executive of the House-
wives’ League; rather, she
looked as if her interest in pig-
jneats was by no means economic
or academic only. She had a
pleasant, eager face, and a
cultured voice with which she
talked with great enthusiasm
about the future of “our great
co-operative movement,” quoting
theories and hopeful statistics
with an assurance which made
some of the practical men of the
game look at each other wide-
eyed. Still, they all agreed that
she was a well-meaning and
friendly woman, and could
easily understand why Harry
was so keen on her.
But Harry was very correct
in his behqvior. He took several
other pigmen along for the visit
to his farm. All the way out
he talked pig, his only concession
to the romantic and the feminine
being to tell her about young
piglets, and what delightful little
animals they were. She was
captivated with his descriptions,
so he promised to show her one
of his brood-pens.
But with a fine sense of
climax he kept that until the
last.
r T'*HEY drove up past his big
paddocks ; his hundreds of
pigs grazing and rooting about
in the dust went down very well
with the visitor.
As they approached the feed-
ing-troughs there was a lively
odor in the air, but Miss Gish-
water was not unduly perturbed ;
no doubt she was accustomed to
the strong smells which shook
the farmer, used to fresh air,
when walking down city streets.
They took only a superficial
view of the boiling-down coppers
in which a certain amount of
wheat was floating, which
probably gave her a mis-
leading impression; and
though Harry talked freely
enough about the protein-
content of the pig’s diet, Miss
Gishwater was too busy look-
ing around her to inquire its
origin. He took her to his
growing-pens, to his fattening-
pens, his food-distributing
machines and his loading-
ramps, and finally to one of the
brood-pens, to delight her
heart.
When they got there, there
wasn’t a piglet to be seen, only
a rapacious-looking old sow
wallowing in the mud and a
dead horse. Lillian suddenly
stopped talking and turned pale.
Harry didn’t notice.
“Now just watch,” he said,
full of glee. “Piggy! Piggy!”
he called.
In a moment, out of a hole the
pigs had gnawed in the horse’s
flank, came peeping the cute
little head of a piglet, much-
smeared, but bright of eye, perky
of ear, and full of that delicious
fat pigginess that made men
like Harry love them so much.
It eyed the party in some
astonishment, Harry in his good
clothes, and Lillian Gishwater
in her bright colors and city-
glamor. It gave an inquisitive
grunt and bounded out of the
hole. Immediately ten more
piglets poured out after it; they
all gaped at Lillian as if they
had never seen anything so
astonishing, then, as one pig, they
set off at a wild gallop round
the yard.
Harry turned to Lillian like a
triumphant ringmaster.
But she held her handkerchief
to her mouth, and she said in a
iaint choking voice, “Oh! Please,
you must excuse me.”
And she hurried off to the
car, with ragged and uneven
steps.
The pigmen looked after her,
then at each other wonderingly.
“Must be a bit train-sick after
her long trip,” Harry concluded.
They left it at that; decided
that the gentlemanly thing to
do was to let her have time to
recover, and not to say too much
about it. So they leaned on the
rails of the pen, and had a long
discussion on methods of
preventing mortality in large
litters.
And so back to the best hotel
in town for dinner, of which
Lillian ate noticeably little. „
Just as Lillian’s train was
about to pull out, Harry
brightened up and said in a
manner which could only be
diagnosed as romantic, “I’ll have
one of those piglets specially
dressed for you, and sent down
next week.”
At that even the other pigmen
noticed Miss Gish water blanch.
“Don’t you dare,” she almost
shrieked; “I’ll never eat pig-
meat again as long as I live! ”
And then the train left them
staring after her.
A LERT to possible repercus-
sions, the pigmen made
Harry catch the next train, prim-
ing him with the explanation
that the horse had wandered into
the pen unknown to him and
died there; that he had thought
it was just the usual heap of
straw that he always provided
for young piglets to play in, and
so on.
“Tell her anything,” they
implored him; “tell her you’ve
destroyed all the pigs in that
pen, and that you’ve sacked the
man responsible for the
negligence.”
Harry was still objecting to
deceiving the woman he hoped
to make his wife when they
slammed the train-door on him
and told him that if he didn’t
retrieve the position they would
force him to resign his presid-
ency of the P.R.U. They didn’t
seem at all concerned about the
possibility of Harry’s heart being
broken.
When he returned it was
apparent, even to the least sensi-
tive pigman, that Harry’s heart
was really broken. For a man
who had talked so muck about
pigs being “business” he took it
very hard. He gave up wearing
his smart suits, and we hardly
ever saw him in town. He
became such a recluse that it was
some weeks before we noticed
that he had disappeared.
Someone went to his farm,
saw his pigs running loose, but
no Harry. The police made
inquiries, but no one had seen
Harry anywhere. His truck was
in the shed, and he hadn’t left
on the train. There were no
clues ; only a horrible suspicion.
It was doubtful if the police
really believed the gossip, but
there was such a depression in
the market whenever it was sus-
pected that some of Harry’s pigs
might be offered, that the other
pigmen put pressure on the
police to shoot the lot. That
saved the market, even if it con-
firmed suspicions that Harry was
beyond saving.
THE PADDOCK
They broke away in the cool shadows, and
There was just this flat paddock, desolate,
But for the great eucalypts. The trees stand
Superior, now, living; as even the inchoate
Rock is superior life. When I came here
And was told that the property was
by three brothers, there was my fear —
What is owned, if not held in the hand? Those
Great eucalypts have the true title. I,
Like one of the brothers returning, might have seen
The same paddock and raised to the sky
My eyes for a memory of sun-brown, lean
Faces. But the trees stand, and the trees live.
What is the gain of walking, of speaking ? These,
Too, die—by the axe, or lightning—strive
Never; but live for the good year, the green peace,
The ease of long residence in one place,
Known, part, predicative of a country. What
I can tell you now of the brothers, is
A brief story; but of trees, they did not
Have time to ringbark: the trees are
Like brothers; they came here in the long years
Growing outside the meaning of all war.
Now is this place and memory theirs —and theirs.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD. .
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLEN C. LEWIS (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERt M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States. Agencies in all Country Centres.
—joy. P..)■— IW IBBIAIWIIII lIMW.IIII
m
Sssw?
CTTfI
i ii
millionaire
suit
Stepping into a Stamina two-piece suit is like stepping
into your own, brand new car. You get a “lift” from its
spanking good looks. But a rich appearance isn’t every-
thing. You want, also, the quality that goes with it. And
you couldn’t find better quality than this handsome, hard-
wearing Crusader worsted. It’s pure wool. It’s all wool.
It’s guaranteed never to fade or shrink.
You’ll have a millionaire look, and millionaire comfort,
too, all the year round. It’s the suit you’ll want the
minute you see it.
ASK FOR
s
m
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
Ik . V
CLOTHES
523.113
Down -Coast
By JOHN GILMORE
THUDDING diesel-engines
check and the little craft
surges on without them,
slowing, head easing
around and steadying on grass-
thatched huts in the palms
angled crazily above the dark
beach sand ; for a moment he is
overwhelmed by quiet and
sudden solitude. Even the oily
water laps mutely, heavily, at the
peeling white paint of the
wooden hull.
Ashore the fronds of the
staggering, native-village coco-
nuts stir briefly in grey smoke
from cooking-fires, where even-
ing meals bubble in thick, black
clay pots over licking flames,
meat and fish sizzle on raw
coals.
Tomorrow we catch early
tide, we sleep ’ere, Mister,
0.K.? Sleep ’ere now tonight
an fixup ingin. Fixup ingin,
catch ’igh tide in the mornin’,
tomorrow, 0.K.?”
Beside him on the tiny bridge
the half-caste skipper leans on
the grimy rail, short and power-
ful, his, tones an odd mixture of
almost Oriental lilt and throaty
guitural, his eyes shaded with
uncertain insolence.
“Yes,” agrees the Australian
shortly.
Below, the bare-chested crew-
boys stand by the fo’c’sle winch,
looking shorewards. One smokes,
and the stink of the twist-tobacco
stabs his nostrils.
“All right, Ali. I'll go on up
to the mission. Tonight, I’ll stay
up there. Get the dinghy out
when we anchor.”
At Mati-Mati Ali and his crew
have many interests, including
some women, and there are
bundles and native passengers
lor the unscheduled call trans-
ported at profit to Ali, unknown
to his employers—an accustomed
irregularity while carrying
legitimate cargoes from town to
plantations, tfading-posts,
villages and Government
stations ; the unwonted presence
of a European passenger will not
deny him it.
On the foredeck a brown hand
pulls a toggle free and the cable
rattles out, shaking free its red
rust-cloud.
It was done circumspectly, a
clogged oil-filter produced,
plausibly oozing black slime, for
the passenger to agree, knowing
it a hoax and knowing Ali knew
he realised it, to the interruption
to their journey.
“I want you to come in,
soon’s you like. I’d like you
down here in the morning,
actually. Got a job down the
coast. South coast.’’
Thirty-six hours previously the
Director’s voice had crackled
at him from the chipped
teleradio-set. “Believe Admin.’s
sending an Auster up there in the
morning, medicine or something.
Like you to come in on it.
Bring your gear. Bring every-
thing with y0u.... ”
In that bare-floored, iron-
walled office of the highlands
estate his trip had begun, speak-
ing across seventy miles of
jungled ranges with the man
who controlled a dozen such
estates from an unlined fibro
shack in sweltering Town.
Throughout the country others,
waiting a turn on the general
wave - length, heard and
speculated.
Muffled against the thin chill
mountain air of yesterday
morning, he had waited in the
plantation-truck, hearing the
engine Overhead as the pilot
searched for any gap in the low,
swirling cloud to bring his plane
through and down.
A year, he had lived there: a
large estate, by. New Guinea
practice,, with four-hundred
laborers, five Australian
assistants and an inflexible,
efficient young manager. Isola-
tion made it unpopular with
natives. Locals would not offer
for work at all, there being a<
tradition of hard-dealings from
earlier clearing- and planting-
days.
Overhead, the tiny blue aero-
plane shot through, swept very
low, and landed insect-frail as it
rolled along the cleared plateau.
z"'AUNTLETED in worn black
leather, a huge hand* waved
as the side-door opened, dis-
gorging Van Eng el an, the
Dutchman. A shout, a nod, and
he raised the side-flap, groping
inside the cowling. The engine
roared, died, raised its note
again and held it, the Dutchman’s
thin hair streaming out in the
air-current. He was abstracted,
gestured at the boys, toiling at
unloading, for speed.
Brief handshake with Conley,
the bearded, overworked young
man from the hospital; then they
were airborne, circling, climbing
slowly up through the moisi
whipping whiteness.
Beside him the'pilot breathed
heavily. He was a man he had
never seen before, but now he
felt linked to him intimately, as
the pockets of obscuring mist
whirled towards them beyond
the cabin-windows, snapped pasi
and were lost.
“She’s doo dam’ light." Van
Engelan spoke for the first time.
“Not got th’ climb!’’ It was
hard to hear him. “Want goot
climb for dis mountain-
country ...” *
At six-thousand feet the fleecy
rolls dropped below, stretching
out endlessly to where, south
and west, steep ranges towered
through in the early sunlight.
“Cloud’ll be. bad dis mornin'
. . . Be not much flying up here
today. We get to the Gap pretty
quick . . .” The Dutchman was
thinking of his waiting breakfast.
The Gap, through and down
to Town. Away behind the.
fragile tailplane rested the dark,
resentful fades in the strange
green-filtered light below ranks
of stark rubber-trees, the small-
community gossip and minor
scandal, occasional loneliness
and irritation with limited
interests, concealed dislikes.
Town aerodrome, and a
Company-jeep waiting.
“Hello, Raka!”
“ ’Day, Mister goin’ down
Giraka, eh?” The native was
unsmiling, earnest. It was the
first hint of a destination; the
Director had been guarded.
Raka would know something—
driver, messenger, office-boy,
English - speaking sophisticate,
survivor of a tribal family which
had made its villages where
Town now stood and which had
scattered, or died, or drifted into
the white man’s economy.
Where undrained, cuttings had
spilt stormwater out over the red
gravel road, the jeep bumped
slowly through spumes of (lust.
After the icy freshness of the
highlands the morning was hot
end very the gritty
dust clung uncomfortably in his
palms and powdered his bare
moist arms By a freak of
climate the heavy rainfall
dwindled off around Town, and
customary dank greenness gave
way to gnarled eucalypt, rocky
outcroppings, scrub and tall,
rank grasses, dowdy and brown.
Past the old police-barracks
and crowded native-prison, they
rolled on to the corrugated
bitumen of Town and spun along
the foreshore.
The driver and his passenger
were silent, the former trained
in his inferiority and diffident
behind it, the latter with the
ritualistic offhandedness of the
professional employer of colored
labor.
Here the doctors lived, the
editor of the Town newspaper,
the legal men and surveyors,
heads of Government depart-
ments, wealthy businessmen and
planters and, storekeepers, in
prim white weatherboard
bungalows set back from the
beach.
Over the hill were the prefabs
housing junior Government-
officers: sedate weekend parties,
Government - furniture, tennis-
clubs, servant-problems (“My
dear, when the bachelors pay a
laundry-boy a pound a week,
how on earth is one to keep a
good boy here on what we can
afford?”), bridge - afternoons
where policy was debated with
1 endless futility, and in the warm
evenings among white-clad men
over chilled beer (“It’s a long,
long task, old man, and the first
thing we need is a Public Service
Commissioner who knows the
country, and who’ll get a
realistic salaries proposal
through Canberra. What sort of
professional men can we expect
here on the money they’re offer-
ing?”), Commonwealth Bank
cheque-books and parcels of
newspapers from the South, and
three months’ furlough in
twenty-four.
Further out by the harbor
lived the tradespeople and stores
and business-employees, a jerry-
built community on sunbaked
Crown lots with its own strata,
merging at shadowy points with
the natives’ palm-leaf shacks and
sordid trade-stores which offered
to a languid clientele tinned
meat, cheap guitars and torches,
cooking-pots, nails and bril-
liantine. ,
go about fifteen miles
up the river here." His
Director scratched a moustached
nose, stabbing a blunt fingernail
[Continued on page 34)


Low's
Autobiography
Supreme boss of propaganda when Low
captured him in Moscow.
With a party of British writers —Kingsley Martin,
Hamilton Fyfe, Yeats-Brown and others—David Low is
here visiting the Russia of the early ’thirties ... on the
return-trip looks in on Germany, just before Hitler takes
over . . . And so to America . . . Father Coughlin . . .
Father Divine .. . Cordell Hull . . President Roosevelt.
18
( Continued)
fywflwymjl ITH Kingsley Martin I
I went to the Sukharevski
¥m H I Market, where _ people
I to 'S I supplemented their rations
k. by purchase in the open.
This was the seamy
side. A kind of Cale-
donian Market of oddments of food and
clothing, dirty and crowded. -An old
woman with a cake of home-made soap,
another with a lump of sausage in a bit of
newspaper, an old man with a pair of
worn slippers.
A greasy person tried to sell me a fish.
It was an extremely dead fish, and he
wanted as much for it in British currency
as would buy me a good dinner at the
Savoy.
“No, tovarish,” I said, “I will stand for
almost anything, but I will not become
the owner of that fish,”
- 1
E WENT to a court presided over by a
competent damsel, not without sex-
appeal, who had, I was told, power to
inflict sentences up to ten years. It was
all very homely and there were no police-
men. And I visited a jail in Moscow
which was practically run by the
prisoners themselves. Inmates who made
themselves a nuisance were voted cads by
their fellows and sent to Coventry —just
like a West End club. There was in those
days no talk of slave-labor camps.
I inspected hospitals and examined
■babies ; I was impressed by the incredibly
vast enterprise of Dnieprostroi; and I
met a number of Americans. American
engineers seemed to be popular and help-
ful thereabouts. I slept in one of the new
workers’ flats there one night under the
impression that it was a hotel.
Factories? Yes, I visited factories—
lots of ’em. Good, bad and indifferent,
't’here was the confusion at Nizhni; but
there were the smooth Amo works and
the clockwork Shelmastroi.
I saw over a collective-farm, a State-
farm and a communal-farm.
Good and bad. We had long solemn
talks about all kinds of subjects with all
kinds of important persons. It was too
early to generalise about the Five-Year
Plan at that stage.
KHAD never travelled with a mixed
body of “intellectuals” before. In
some ways my companions were as
interesting as Russia. Fair-minded,
trained observers as most of them were,
it was difficult to be starkly objective
about a subject surrounded by years of
passionate controversy.
One could see on one side the subtle
struggle against accepting too easily, on
the other against rejecting too easily.
One of us, finding a bolt lying on the
road, deduced that all Russian machinery
fell to pieces; when through manifest
incompetence our boat arrived at Astrak-
han at black midnight another insisted
that this was designed so that we should
not see the defective local tramway;
another, on the other hand, noted with
enthusiasm the advance in transport-
production evidenced in a vast assembly
of motor-vans, dismissing as a detail of
no consequence they had no wheels.
WE were a happy band, apart from
one small rift in our domestic lute.
It was hot rocketing about from farm to
factory in the Ukraine, and the company
had let itself go a bit sartorially. I, as
usual, had merged myself in the scenery
by wearing a Russian blouse. Kingsley
Martin wore a rambler outfit. The only
really creditable chap was Francis
Yeats-Brown, who appeared always,
whether facing a steam-hammer or a
wheat silo, as though he had stepped out
of Bond-street. The rest of the company
looked as though it were on holiday in a
fishing-village.
“Damn it!” said Fyfe (a peppery chap
when vexed), “we are ambassadors!
What will the Russians think?”
|7 POKED about a bit by myself in the
bafck alleys of Moscow. By night it
appeared to be orderly and well kept.
In Russia, 1932. “I, as usual,” says Low, "had merged myself in the scenery,” wearing
a Russian blouse; he even grew a Leninesque beard before the trip was over.
Clean streets, no cadgers, no prostitutes.
It reminded me of Sunday in New York
minus Broadway.
Although my Russian speech was
limited to “Please,” “Thank you,” and
“Give me a cup of tea, comrade*” one
could do a lot by waving one’s arms
about and drawing ideographs. I found
the inhabitants, friendly and interested.
In a shady spot at the bottom of the
garden at the Foreign Office I found a
gnomish person who looked as though
he should have been sitting on a mush-
room. This was Radek, then the Soviet
Press chief and supreme boss of propa-
ganda. He spoke English fluently, and
after he had buttered me up telling me
how good and important I was,
I
and I had buttered him up telling
him how important and good he was,
he proved to be a lively entertaining
chap by no means uncritical of his
colleagues.
When we were joined by Ivy Litvinov
there was some graceful sarcasm flying
about. It felt just like home.
The lady was called away, and I was
left with Radek. We talked of propa-
ganda, the techniques of persuasion,
emphasis and diminution, the compara-
tive effectiveness of statement and
parable, soothing expression and exciting
expression, shock or tickle in the use of
words and images.
It came to this: it all depends upon
the receptivity of the audience. You
have to stay within its range of pick-up,
otherwise you are talking to yourself.
“Now, that’s where pictures have an
advantage,” said he.
“Not really,” I said. “Much the same
limitations. All right if you stick to trite
simplicity and traditional symbolic forms,
But if you want to extend and bring your
picture-language up to date, it’s an
educational job of labelling ahd impres-
sing new associations —reiteration and
repetition.”
“I always look at the cartoons in a
newspaper first,” he said. “They tell me
how things are. Your medium is no good
for plain statement, but it is ideal for
creating prejudice.”
“Sounds immoral,” said I, knowing
better.
“Oh, no,” he said. “That depends on
the aim of the prejudice.”
“Supposing your aim is to weaken
prejudice and provoke people to use their
own brains?”
Someone spirited him away, and otir
pleasant talk ended in the air.
NO doubt the widespread illiteracy, the
slowness of building an adequate
education-system, and official urgency
to help along public understanding
accounted for the plentiful use of
cartoons in historical, instructional and
social establishments.
The Bolsheviks certainly seemed
cartoon-minded. The Revolutionary
Museums in Moscow and Leningrad had
every stage of the popular progress
copiously illustrated with cartoons. Thy
clubs and meeting-halls had their
cartoons representing Lenin urging on
workers, or Stalin pointing meaningly
to some factory or other.
Go into a hospital and ask questions
about infant mortality, and ten-to-one an
official would produce cartoons of a babe
lying on a tomb to illustrate his statistics.
Go outside and you would find on each
side of the front-door cartoons showing
the evils of dirtiness or carelessness.
Cartoons preaching temperance or
service adorned hoardings along the
public highway, in the style of our
Western advertising posters. Here and
there cartoons on canvas streamers
stretched across the road or from end to
end of a building.
The parks of culture and rest had the
best current cartoons on international
politics reproduced in color six-feet high
and mounted on trees. As a variation
there were caricatures in the round-
large dummy comic figures of reprehen-
sible foreigners like Austen Chamber-
lain and Poincare —standing about under
the foliage and in the open spaces for the
dogs to” sniff at.
THE public appetite for pictorial satire
was revealed in the wall-newspapers,
feature of all apartment-houses, business-
offices, factories and clubs.
The wall-cartoons ranged from light
criticism of local affairs to serious
subjects crowded rather painfully with
symbolism.
Just to be friendly I myself contributed
a ponderous work to a wall-newspaper,
containing one symbolic representation
of Lenin, one symbolic rising-sun, six
symbolic peasants’ five
symbolic ships and one symbolic grain-
elevator. Nobody knew what it meant,
but it gave great satisfaction.
THE free use of public ridicule as a
social corrective was a feature of
Bolshevik Russia in 1932.
It was difficult for Boris, who turned
up tight to work yesterday, or for Olga,
who had been loafing on the job latterly,
to resist the point of large color cartoons
fixed above their machines, representing
them respectively as a sot and a slut;
or for Ivan, allowed his flat at the
apartment-house to get into an insanitary
condition, to ignore a drawing of a filthy
hog posted beside his front-door.
The high authorities, recognising the
inestimable value of this medium of
public opinion (except, of course, so far
as they themselves might be the object
of adverse attention), encouraged and
assisted it by issuing ready-made colored
posters of, say, the Camel or the Tortoise,
commonly accepted'symbols in Russia of


stupidity and sluggishness, with con-
venient blank space for filling in name
or names, to be publicly presented with
loud jeers to deserving persons or depart-
ments.
Other posters of the like kind applied to
carelessness, speculation and loose
morals. Their presentation was an
unenviable distinction.
£ TpHE position in the Soviet world of
the more sedate pictorial arts was
interesting. The regime took proper care
of art-treasures, old masters and new,
but all that belonged to the past, they
said. No more “studies,” no more
“scenes.” Art for art’s sake be blowed!
In 1932 artists who were more con-
cerned with technical virtuosity than
literary content had a thin time. They
painted what they liked, but there were
few customers. The biggest buyers of
pictures at that time were the workers’
clubs and Government bodies, central
and local, which all had every-picture-
tells-a-story tastes. “Let art bear some
relation to the life of the people.” If you
must paint landscapes, paint them with
collective-farms. If you must paint
nudes, paint them working a tractor.
“Do us a hundred yards of art showing
the success of the Five-Year Plan, or the
heroism of the Red Army.”
ON our return-journey across the
Ukraine to the frontier railway-
station of Shepatovka we were gone-over
thoroughly by Russian Customs officials.
Standing alongside an ominous heap of
books, photographs and undeveloped
films confiscated from a group of
Bavarian students our train had picked
up on the way, a fat inspector solemnly
inspected my two sketchbooks. He grew
more and more glum as he turned the
pages. He came to a rough note 1 had
made of some Red Army soldiers singing.
Naturally they were in uniform. This
was something he understood. Military
spy-work. The sketchbooks could not
be allowed *o leave Russia, but must be
sent to Moscow for examination.
When 1 told him I was a guest of the
Soviet Government he just shook his head
intimating pretty clearly that he had
heard that tale before.
By a bit of good luck, Hamilton Fyfe
saw a man in a uniform obviously high
up in the service since he was doing
nothing. He seemed only mildly impressed
by the threat that the whole British press
would be filled with the incident and
the “Times” would make it a front-page <
story; somewhat more moved by the
argument that such treatment of a guest
of the Soviet Government would not
improve his chances of promotion.
Matters grew serious. The train
whistled. I was desperate and threw a
little temperament around. The wheels
began to move, the whole wrangle mov-
ing at the top of its voice with them along
the platform.
The official’s nerve broke, he thrust the
sketchhooks at me and I scrambled
aboard.
It was a near thing. I wore the sketch-
books beneath my undershirt for the rest
of the journey.
PARTING from my companions, I
broke the return-journey at Berlin.
I wished to take a look at the Germans.
My obscure little hotel was clean and
comfortable, but otherwise the experi-
ence was depressing. I had never seen so
many prostitutes, male and female, at one
time as in the Kurfurstendam.
Coming from orderly Moscow, some
parts of Berlin appeared to be
corrupt and out of hand. There was a
tense, desperate air about the faces,
although one could escape, of course,
into one of the expensive restaurants if
one had the money.
It was evident something was brewing.
Every now and then there were scowling
Litvinov was Soviet Foreign Minister
when Low drew him—and liked him.
WOODROW THE BALANCER AND THE FOURTEEN POINTS
(Himself throughout a staunch supporter of the League of Nations idea, Low had earlier in The Bulletin done much
more savage caricature-cartoons than this comparatively sympathetic one of February 20, 1919; but, as he has said: “I
changed my mind about President Wilson, whom I learned to respect as a stubborn stickler for a democratic peace against a
company of ‘realists’ who were not so particularin League and World War l peace-settlement affairs.)
young men in raincoats and leggings.
(The Nazis had just evaded the law
against private-army uniforms by all
wearing identical raincoats.) I went to
a political meeting, and, although I could
not follow \fyhat was said, the tempera-
ture of expression was violent in the
extreme.
A few months later Hitler was in
power.
MY Russian tour made two changes
in my personal appearance which
became permanent tags of identity.
The bright Ukrainian sunshine had
troubled my eyes, which had always been
more comfortable in shadow. In
Germany I bought a Continental wide-
brimmed hat to shade them.
Coming down the Volga several of us
grew beards for a lark. As time passed
one after another of my companions
became horrified at their reflections and
shaved. I did not, and when I returned
to London my Leninesque appearance so
entranced my family that I kept it for
eight years.
TRAVEL broadens the mind,
undoubtedly. I decided that since
I was expressing myself so freely about
“world opinion,” “world reactions,”
“world menaces” and so on, it was high
time I saw this world. {
After that my newspaper-contracts
arranged' for periodical breaks for travel
abroad. During the succeeding years up
to the Hitler war I covered Europe from
Finland west and southward, part of
Northern Africa and both North and
South America, getting the general
hang of things, on the way visiting
political institutions and making a hit-
and-run personal contact with a mixed
assortment of the prominent political
figures of the time. # *
After Eastern democracy I had to
survey Western democracy. Public
enterprise planned and controlled by
party oligarchy fox the working-classes
contrasted with private enterprise,
restrained and safeguarded by representa-
tives elected by a majority vote of all
classes. Collective order versus
individual liberty.
TT GOT around to the United States in
1936, when things had settled down
after the slump-years. We approached
via South America in a passage full of
argument with South Americans about
Spain, and punctuated by explosions.
A sea-fight in the port of Lisbon, two
Spanish Franco gunboats in mutiny
trying to run the gauntlet of river-bank
batteries to reach a Government port;
remains of recent revolutions in Santos
and Lima; a bomb against the British
at Buenos Aires ; and more remains of
another revolution at Havana.
The United States seemed remarkably
peaceful by comparison. This was my
second visit, I having crossed from San
Francisco to New York by easy stages
in 1919 on my way to London.
I found some previous floating-impres-
sions confirmed. Such as, for instance,
that American newspapers, movies and
radio did their people a disservice by
representing American life as sensa-
tional, so that when a visitor arrived and
saw calm and order he thought it was
phoney.
I was surprised when I rambled by
midnight around big American cities to
find them so well-behaved. Probably
the average amount of sin went on behind
closed doors, but I felt that American
vice was over-publicised.
So was the crookedness of American
public men. One should not leave it to
be taken for granted that there were good
Americans.
T 7 N the United States I kept forgetting
I was not an American. Naturally.
My native land was “new” too, and its
early settlers had met pioneering condi-
tions not so very unlike those their kind
had met in America.
The ways and social atmosphere of
American small towns resembled those
I had grown up with. I had had to learn
the English, but I felt I knew most
Americans to start with.
Being, therefore, by nature a sort of
honorary American, I had no difficulty
in talking freely to anybody.
There were, of course, plenty of
obvious things to argue about in our
(American) way-of-life, things an English-
man would have found hard to under-
stand. The way Americans had material
success mixed up with virtue, for instance.
If “successful,” you were good in
America. If a “failure” it must have
been because you were wanting in
diligence or character —which amounted
practically to sin.
This Englishman would certainly have
o Continued on next page)


approved the American idea of the family
as the social basis ; but he would have
disapproved the tendency to herd, to
live in one another’s pockets.
Arising out of that, this Englishman
might have thought that for a people
that talked so rrtuch of individualism and
private enterprise, there was not enough
tolerance of individual eccentricity.
Where life was lived pretty publicly and
everybody had his nose"'in everybody
else’s business, the very friendliness of
American life made the dissenter more
conspicuous. If the country club and the
business community were mobilised
against one, life could have been as
intolerable as it might have been for the
official misfit in Soviet Russia. Decidedly
he would have been sure there was mdre
individualism among the supposedly
class-ridden English. He would have
ended by having grave doubts as to
whether Americans really understood
democracy,
THERE were Americans and
Americans, and I did not mee't
enough of them on this occasion to write
a book on The Mind of a Nation. But I
found the everyday ordinary Americans
I did meef ill-informed and irresponsible
about politics outside their own local
affairs. -
Few had a truly national, much less a
world, view. I became almost frightened
LITTLE ADOLF TRIES ON THE SPIKED MOUSTACHE
(He was metaphorically just trying it for fit when Low, as related in this
instalment, looked in on Germany on his way back from Russia.)
at some of the nonsense talked about
Russia, Italy, Germany, Spain, Britain
and what we people overseas had come to
call The Situation. Few appeared to
think that Hitler was any business of
theirs.
Here, it struck me, was the weakness
of Western democracy. Unlike the
Eastern version, which demanded only
subservience, Western democracy, the
government of the people, for the people,
by the people, demanded a measure of
intelligent interest and comprehension on
1 the part of its members. Otherwise it
became a hollow fraud, and its members
a pushover for the first dominating
personality that undertook to do their
thinking for them.
Even the power to change leaders,
when exercised by those who have to
substitute emotion for reason and
prejudice for knowledge, is no guarantee
of its survival.
E WAS still pursuing this theme when
I came to New York and found two
pertinent exhibitions of current methods
of debauching the mass mind, different
but oddly similar.
New Yorkers told you with pride that
they were hard-boiled. Well, they might
have been boiled, but I should not have
called them hard. Try to boil a marsh-
mallow and you will get my meaning.
On the contrary, I concluded that they
were sentimental, loving emotion for its
own sake.
There were at the time, besides a pend-
ing Presidential election, at least four
popular irruptions of a religio-political-
economic nature. The most important
was that being raised by the celebrated
priest Father Coughlin, a radio
phenomenon who, I was
told, had reached a posi-
tion of national influence.
I listened to his
vehement diatribe against
President Roosevelt, and
other persons and thihgs,
but the precise substance
of his objections eluded
me. Parts of the press had
evidently been cruel to
him, so Father had
included them also in his
list of anathema.
I found that he was
staying at my hotel,
having arrived earlier with
a fuss that blocked traffic,
so I paid him a visit.
The interview was a bit
jerky. He was changing
his shirt at the time.
“What of the press?”
I asked this short, plump,
glowering person.
“Our degraded press
has its tail in the gutter,”
he replied, eyeing me
suspiciously. •
“And what of the
radio?” I pursued.
“Come to my meeting
tonight,” he answered.
TT WENT. “Is this
Father Coughlin’s
meeting?” I asked the taxi-driver.
“Sure. Look at their faces,” he said.
A full house was in the process of
being worked up to emotional heights by
a cornet playing “When Irish Eyes Are
Smiling.” A pretty cutie handed me two
flags to wave and sold me a song
entitled “Father Coughlin Is Coming.”
Then, to loud applause and waving of
flags, a company of young men in grey
uniforms with shiny helmets and drums
arrived, followed later by Father
Coughlin himself, illuminated by two
spotlights, popping up in a red plush
pulpit decorated with flags and six micro-
phones.
The applause, ably guided and swollen
by the drums whenever it weakened,
lasted for ten minutes by the clock.
Father Coughlin then delivered an address
during which he himself so
often and so vehemently that I thought
his lower jaw would drop off.
Mosley did. it much better. Coughlin
MY FRIENDS, WE HAVE failed.
WE JUST COULDN’T CONTROL.
TOU*U WARUKT B\SS»ONS» •
DOORMAT
(Low’s comment on the invasion of Manchuria by Japan—like Mussolini’s
earlier unanswered challenge over Corfu, Japan’s move was another killing
blow to the League of Nations.).
THE CONFERENCE EXCUSES ITSELF
(The London “Evening Standard” cartoons on this page and at the foot of the next
illustrate Low’s outlook on current and pending events just before and during the “fateful
’thirties.” This one was on the disarmament conference in 1937.)
made two inartistic touches which Mosley
would have scorned. He often tipped to
the audience the right place to applaud
by pointing to the “mikes” and clapping
himself : and, after rising in his perora-
tion to bawling ferocity, he suddenly
consulted * his wrist-watch, grasped a
“mike,” assumed a soothing announcer’s
voice and said into it, “That concludes
the broadcast from the Hippodrome,
New York. Father Coughlin will be on
the air next Saturday through the Mutual
System.”
Pretty raw. But decidedly a popular
success.
A MORE satisfying evening I spent
looking up Father Divine. Father
Divine was “de Lawd” of “Green Pas-
tures” come to life. Hailed by 2,000,000
negroes as God himself, Father Divine
had a chain of establishments known as
“Heavens,” miraculously financed and
dispensing free chicken-dinners to his
followers.
As I approached the headquarters in
Harlem the noise could be heard a block
away. *
I edged through the squeeze of colored
brothers into the hall, which had a
capacity of 500 but was holding 700. The
air was thick. A streamer saying “Father
Divine Is Dean of the Universe” floated
across the narrow platform at one end,
and several crudely lettered texts saying
“Thank You, Father,” and “Father
Divine Is God” tastefully illuminated in
gold paint hung on the wall.
Everybody was crooning, not to say
howling, a monotonous, interminable
rhythm of “Oh, thank you, Father, for
all you’ve done for me,” clapping
hands and dancing from the knees. When
700 strong people all dance up and down
together the floor dances with them, so
I, therefore, under protest, found myself
dancing up and down too, but calmly and
with dignity.
*An obliging angel, very like a
distinguished Fleet-street journalist, but
of course much darker, steered me past a
drum and a banjo to the platform, where
he took my name.
“I have come all the way from London,
England, to hear Father Divine,” I
explained.
A tall, thin, colored man next to us was
overcome by his feelings and broke into
a wild spasmodic dance, like the reflex
actions of a chicken with its neck wrung.
The singing stopped at last, and a lady
started to testify, interrupted by occasional
blasts of “Wonderful!” “He’s Gahd!”
and yells of just plain emotion.
“Yoo-hoo! Faa-ther!” squeaked a
female voice at one-minute intervals.
MY angel took me down one floor to
the banqueting-hall. "piere I found
a long horseshoe table, at the curve of
which was Father’s upholstered chair,
with spoons, knives and forks radiating
from it.
The inner space was chock-a-block
with coal-black mammies, tight-packed
as sardines, crooning endlessly; and
along the sides were small tables at which
mixed company feasted on chicken,
stopping now and then, with mouth full,
to shout, “He’s Gahd!” “Peace.”
Suddenly a frightful hullabaloo
upstairs. My angel turned to me shining
with excitement. “He’s come! Gahd’s
come!”
“Hooray!” I said, just to be sociable.
We stampeded with about 200 others
out and up a fire-escape back to the floor
above, where through a small door we
bulged on to the back of the platform.
There he was. A short, broad, coffee-
colored person in a brown suit and'
sporting tie, sitting benevolently regarding
his frenzied flock. Someone introduced
me, saying that I was a visitor from
London, England, come to hear him
speak.
Father rose with a peculiar glint in
his eye and announced in a voice that
needed oiling that he had not intended
to speak, but there were visitors present
who had come to hear him speak
and so he was speaking, and since
such could only eventuate upon a
reciprocationing basis, he would now
like to hear the visitors speak and the
visitors would now speak.
Ear-splitting applause, during which
Mr. Low, of London, England, retreated
down the fire-escape covered in
confusi&n. /
V ' ... _ , v
©PINIONS may differ as to the
secondary qualities required in a
President of the United States, but
undoubtedly the first is personality. I
went to a dinner of Democrats where
Franklin Roosdvelt’s magnificent voice
(magnificent is the right word—it was
magnified ten times life-size), coming
from a big black box, completely stole
the whole show from the local orators.
I had to sample this presence for
myself at first-hand, so I slipped a
sketchbook into my pocket and went to
Washington.
At the same' time I wished to add
some authenticity to my portraits of the
United States Executive, so first I kept
a series of appointments made by a
friend of mine with members of the
Roosevelt Administration. Secretary of
the Treasury Morgenthau had the
funniest stories.
Talking over people, I *told him
Americans should not make the mistake
of thinking Neville Chamberlain was a
coward. Far from it. He once saved
a girl from drowning.
“Morgy” thought this was a gag. “Did
he get his pants wet?” he said.


1 enjoyed most my morning with
Secretary of State Cordell Hull, who was
kind and fatherly. 1 had respected Hull
from afar, and as he sat for me, with
his sad eyes, lean expressive mouth and
aquiline profile, answering my questions
in his soft accent, my respect deepened
into confidence.
At length, by arrangement with Steve
Early, helped with a handful of letters
from mutual friends in Britain, I came
to Mr. President. In real life he did not
disappoint.
EUROPEAN dictators affected the
cheap dodge of sitting afar off in the
corners of large rooms, so that callers
had to walk' over an acre of carpet,
shrinking progressively at every step;
but President Roosevelt’s room at the
White House was not big, and in four or
five steps you were on top of him —or
rather he was on top of you, for at close
range he put himself over with tremend-
ous effect. Six-feet-two-inches and
broad, he sat against the curved window
with an inconspicuous Stars-and-Stripes
over it, and his desk seemed too small for'
him.
He was a bad sitter. From the waist up
alive and on the move all the time,
ruffling his hair, throwing his arms about,
twisting his body, turning his face to the
ceiling, laughing too much, either open-
ing his mouth or distorting its shape by
wedging his cigarette-holder too far to the
side. He might have been a swell
President, but he didn’t know how to
pose for his portrait.
Beyond the formal routine of agreeable
noises to visiting foreigners and a few
Low liked U.S. Secretary of State Cordell
Hull when he met him in America and
drew this caricature.
personal titbits about people we both
knew in London, talk with Roosevelt
was short and unimportant. But it was
enough to give me his aura and to fix his
personality in my private panorama of
the times.
When, six years later, in the middle
of World War 11, his friend Harry
Hopkins brought 'me compliments from
Mr. President with a request for an
original drawing of a cartoon he had
liked, I sent him also that drawing I had
made at that first encounter, for full
measure.
IT STAYED for one of his press confer-
ences. That was Mr. President as the
Great Guy. He seemed to know every-
body by his first name and it was all very
jolly.
“Well, boys, what are we discussing
today? Not politics, I hope,” he says.
Q. “How’s the campaign going, Mr.
President?”
A. “Travelling about is costing me a
lot for laundry, Fred.”
Q. “What are the odds, Mr.
President?”
A. “I’ve got my bet locked in the safe
with the result, Harry.”
This, I felt, was not how Mr. Baldwin
would do it. But I found myself wishing
it were.
19
COMING to the fateful ’thirties, I
must sketch briefly my own view-
point. Of the various systems of
order yet tried, I saw democracy, with all
its lamentable imperfections, as having
the best blend of stability and dignity.
Democracy, that is to say, in the
Lincolnian sense of government of the
people, for the people, by the people
through elected representatives; rather
than in the Eastern sense of government
for some of the ' people by fortuitous
leaders. r
If there had to be a choice, as some
held, of priorities between political
democracy (the right to lift up one’s voice
and utter one’s opinions) and economic
democracy (the right to an adequate
share in the ownership and production
of the common wealth), for one at the
expense of the other, I placed political
democracy before economic democracy ;
because, wishing both, I could imagine
the second proceeding from the first, but
not the first proceeding from the second
—indeed I feared that the suppression of
the first would eventually be the death of
the second, too.
Here, it appeared to me, was the rub.
With freedom of expression there was
democracy, without it there was no
democracy. That was fundamental. I
believed that the progress of mankind (in
which also I believed) was quickened by
the free exchange and clash of ideas. It
followed that, to me, the most important
freedom was the freedom to think and to
express the thought.
To aid the thinking, the first priority of
good government was education —uni-
versal hnd uninhibited, to the end of
producing the Community of Informed
and Responsible Citizens.
THAT put me solidly up against the
impatient ones who took the view
that earthly paradise could be reached
much sooner if people were made to shut-
up and do what they were told; the
paternal ones who assumed they were
bom to do the thinking for everybody
else;'the self-appointed “leaders” who
sought to restrict the full intellectual
development of their “followers” for
some imagined increase of the latter’s
efficiency or for the good of their
immortal souls.
I believed in freedom. But I knew that
freedom was, in an absolute sense,
impossible ; that it was relative, a con-
stantly changing balance, its application
adjusting to circumstances.
No freedom to drive on the wrong side
of the road, or to set up a private police-
force, to establish a glue-factory in Hyde
Park or even “to walk naked up and down
Regent-street.
No freedom to crab other people’s
freedom, no freedom for the strong to
impose their will on the weak ; nor even
for large majorities to sit on little
minorities without due consideration.
On the other hand, no freedom for little
minorities to frustrate large majorities.
I could contemplate with equanimity
reconstruction or revolution so long as it
were done by democratic process, with
freedom of expression intact to help
redress manifest injustice.
I did not deceive myself into believing
that many people actually prized
freedom, and would not actually prefer
comfortable slavery, if it were called
something else and they had a generous
and kind master. But I believed it to be
of the utmost importance that the door be
kept open wide for those that did prize
it, so that they might be the guardians of
opportunity for the others.
TT N “foreign affairs” and on questions of
d- peace and war I took the world view.
My views were pacific, but not pacifist.
To my mind it was the first duty of states-
manship to keep people from biting-urne
another.
I was enthusiastically for the reduction
by agreement of national armaments to
a bare minimum, and for the open settle-
ment of international disputes through
the League of Nations.
President Roosevelt, in his element at a press conference .
The boundaries and interests of peoples
in 1930 were far from just, but to dissuade
nations from abandoning negotiations
and using war as an instrument of policy
I looked to the use of collective economic
and financial pressure, backed if neces-
sary by a collective or international
armed force. If moral and material
standards had to be protected from
brigands I approved efficient police and
defence forces.
Under the inexorable pressure of
Man’s own fertility and ingenuity, I
favored evolution towards a world order
along federal lines, strictly preserving
local cultures. Local nationalisms, on
other hand, seemed to me to represent
a! system visibly growing obsolete.
Meanwhile, therefore, I did not object
to “unions” and “spheres, of influence.”
But no distorted or unnatural influence
imposed with a club. Certainly no
forcible domination of a separate people
by a “master race” for its own profit.
That brought me into collision with
romantic nationalists, the “my-country-
right-or-wrong” people and believers in
race-superiority.
ftp HE early ’thirties were full of tumult,
and there was plenty of material for
a political cartoonist. The world slump
and long unemployment, the collapse of
European finances and economies were
all happening.
The Second World War was cooking,
quietly, in far-off China, where the
Japanese militarists weje presenting the
League with its first major challenge by
seizing Manchuria. The disarmament
conference was failing, the carefully
drawn pacts to outlaw war were melting
away.
I was too busy drawing my cartoons
of statesmen falling off precipices, war-
lords using the League as a doormat, and
wolves apologising to sheep for not being
able to restrain their (the sheep’s) savage
impulses, to attend to the * domestic
politics of Germany. But at last crisis
grew to crescendo and political convul-
sions culminated in the rise to power of
Hitler and the Nazi party.
TIME passed, and ideals began to
decay. The idealists gave ground
before the self-styled “practical” man.
On the one hand, the derogation of
the League and its collective ideas
accelerated.
The League, it was said, was a ferment
of mischief-making, with its protests and
interference. A waste of money, too.
Collective security, it was said, was a trap.
As for the men of peace, it was said, they
were the dangerous ones, starry-eyed
sissies that loved every country but their
own.
On the other hand, the uniting value of
a strong national spirit was discovered
anew. The re-establishment of the
respectability of war began. One heard
more of the nobility and less of the
tragedy of the late world war ; more of
glory than of blood and mud. Sombre,
naked war-literature, plays and films as
typified in, say, All Quiet on the Western
Front, Journey’s End, Sergeant Grischa,
“tarnished British heroism.” Any
tendency to consider the late war as
sordid was “an indignity to. the spirit of
our dead.”
It is worthy of note that precisely the
same views were being vigorously spread
by the new political party in Germany,
the Nazis.
( To.be continued next week )
“Phew ! That’s a nasty leak. Thank goodness it’s not at our end of the boat."
(To this Low adds the footnote: “This comment on the world depression of 1929-32 was reprinted
all over the world and was probably my most widely-circulated cartoon.”)


GUARD.
Ca*hS
PROTECTA
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature lo
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY . W.
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
min • ,
C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Prlco Ltd.
Docket Book C'i.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The V.R.C. should step-up
stakemoney for the Newmarket,
or that glamor sprint of early-
autumn racing may become a
secondary event. The £3OOO
handout for next Saturday’s six-
furlongs race up the Flemington
straight compares unfavorably
with the A.J.C.’s £6OOO Don-
caster in April, the_ £lO,OOO
sprints in Brisbane during the
winter season, and even with the
Newmarket prizemoney of 50
years ago. Then the Newmarket
was worth £2llB, of which
£lBlB went to the winner, £2OO
to the second and £lOO to the
third horse.
/
Sydney-trained horses have
done well in the Newmarket in
recent year-s. Kingster won last
year, with another from Rand-
wick, Apple Bay, third. Second-
money went to Adelaide’s top
sprinter Copper Year. Other
Sydney winners of the straight-
six in recent seasons have been
Birdwood, Cultured, Bern-
borough and Mildura.
Favorites have won their
share of Newmarkets during the
past two decades. In 1936
Regular Bachelor was a win-
ning favorite at 9 to 2. Since
then favorites first past the
winning-post have been Aurie’s
Star, 1937 (2 to 1); Ajax, 1938
(6 to 4 on); El Golea, 1939 (9
to 4); and, fourth public fancy
to win in a row, Bernborough,
1946 (9 to 4 on ; hottest favorite
in Newmarket history); then
Royal Gem, 1948 (5 to 1), and
Birdwood, 1954 (5 to 4).
First run in 1874 and won by
Maid of Avenal, a three-year-
old filly carrying 7.8 and taking
1.17 to cover the six furlongs,
the Newmarket has nearly always
been a race with a hot pace on
from the start. Record time,
I.los, was made in 1929 by St.
Ardent, and later equalled by
All Veil (1941). Flemington’s
best time for the distance, I.Bs,
is also Australia’s fastest; it was
made by Aurie’s Star in
September, 1940. He carried
10.2. Randwick’s best is 1.95.
Greenline won the Newmarket
in 1930 with 10.2, the only
horse to succeed with more than
lOst. Jim Pike was in the saddle.
Two years earlier Jim had won
the race on Gothic (9.10). Bern-
borough scored in 1946 with
9.13 and Royal Gem in 194$
with 9.9. Several milers of note
have won this straight-six.
’Newmarket selections:
Copper Year, 1 ; King’s Fair,
2 ; Adelina, 3.
• • •
The second leg of the V.R.C.
autumn double, the Australian
Cup, has not been so good for
backers of the favorite. In the
past 20 years the only winning
favorites have been Hellion,
1955 (3 to 1); Bold Belle, 1951
(11 to 4); and Marauder, 1938
(3 to 1).
For the Cup: Beaupa, 1;
Emphatic, 2 ; Ralkon, 3.
• • • •; .
This season has been notable
for the crop of outstanding two-
year-olds in the various States
and- in New Zealand. Sydney
has unbeaten Concert Star,
whose return to racing is keenly
awaited in view of the sub-
sequent form of other high-class
youngsters. Adelaide’s best filly
in years, Cherete, handed out a
galloping display above average
last Saturday to win Caulfield’s
Merson Cooper Stakes against
crack colts, including Seabeau,
till then unbeaten, Sydney top-
liner Tulloch, and Melbourne
two-year-old Lord, whose only
prior starts had yielded two wins
and a second.
Cherete, who has already won
more than £5OOO in stakes, wasn’t
nominated for next Saturday’s
V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes,
which was bad luck for connec-
tions. In her absence Tulloch
might win. v
• • •
An aroma of tasty barbecue
steaks —there were 4000 of
them! —greeted visitors to War-
wick Farm when the A.J.C.
staged an eight-event programme
there last Saturday. By the time
the last race was over, though,
there was an even stronger
aroma of grilled punters.
Biggest blow for the odds-
takers at Warwick was the 66-
to-1 Conservative in the
Warwick Farm Handicap.
Another that did punters no
good was Star Boy, in the
Juvenile Maiden; he wasn’t
ridden out to beat the well-
fancied Lord Russett, with
Matonga third, and he might
soon win again in better com-
pany. Star Boy is by Phaleron
Bay (imp.) froln Lady Upstart
by Burnewang (imp.).
The Hickey brothers, Jim
and Fred, won races on outsiders
at Warwick ; their father, Fred,
is part-owner and trainer of
Gay Patrick, winner of. the
First Three-year-old Maiden.
“Young” Fred rode that out-
sider ; Jim was astride Star Boy.
Gay Patrick is by Berrylands
(imp.) from Genie (a sister to
French Echo, winner of the
Doomben Cup) by Genetout
(Fr.).
Squander Bug (imp.), winner
of several races in England,
hasn’t had many starters since
he began at the stud in Victoria,
but Squander Lady, runaway
winner of the Warwick Farm
Two-year-old Maiden, could
keep his name in the headlines.
She has had only two outings, for
a second at Canterbury, and then
her win. Squander Lady (raced
by Mrs. A. A. Dudley and
trained by former jockey Pat
Dudley) is from Sunny Princess,
a mare by Coronation Day
(imp.) from Land of Sunshine
by Australian Sun (imp.).
F. B. Warner, of , Mudgee,
paraded only one yearling at the
Randwick 1955 auction, when
779 were in the catalogue, and
he parted with her for a mere
90gns. Now racing as Omorphe,
the filly easily won her first
race, a Maiden Handicap, at a
Rosehill mid-week meeting, and
followed with a third to Mango-
plah at Warwick Farm. She
looks a staying type, and on the
dam’s side is bred that way:
she’s by Royal Andrew from
Dorothy Princess by Sylvandale.
David, Reading and Journal,
three stayers of note, are related
to Omorphe.
Field Chief, a Sydney Cup
prospect (handicapped on 8.9),
was a winner in New Zealand
last Saturday. He won the
Peninsula Handicap with 9.8,
and wasn’t ridden out, so he
must be a real Sydney Cup show.
Another New Zealander to win
on Saturday was top filly Passive,
in the Franklin Cup (one mile
2f furlongs). Passive has won
several thousands in stakes for
nine firsts this season alone.
Applewind, too solid for the
opposition in Albion Park’s two-
year-old Handicap last Saturday,
is yet another of the successful
progeny of Newtown Wonder
(imp.), whose record in juvenile
events has been remarkable, his
progeny having won upwards of
£BO,OOO in stakes. Applewind,
a first foal, is from the imported
mare Trade Winds by Owen
Tudor from Rorke’s Drift by
Spion Kop.
«. • •
Dual Derby-winner Monte
Carlo, having his first start -since
winning the V.R.C. classic,
finished among the tail-enders
in Warwick Farm’s Denham
Courf Handicap. The outing,
however, will benefit the three-
year-old, and it pleased trainer
Frank Dalton. Monte Carlo
may have his next run in
Warwick Farm’s Chipping
Norton Stakes before the A.J.C.
St. Leger.
(From “R.A.C.,” North
Fremantle):
Avian Derby’s Westralian record
mile-rate (2.7 f) .for a mile-and-a-half
was broken in the first heat of the
“Inters” in Perth by the N.S.W.
champ., Mineral Spring (2.7); Beau
Don, the local idol, made it 2.6 f in
the second heat; and Caduceus 2.6 f
in the third—three records in three
races.
A very impressive runner on the first
night [this, incidentally, was written
by “R.A.C.” a week before last
Saturday’s ’Final] was Radiant Ven-
ture, from Port Pirie (S.A.). He
won the second heat effortlessly. It
was his first win in first-class com-
pany; previously he. had won 23 out
of 25 events on country tracks.
Caduceus, Mineral Spring and
Radiant Venture appear to be the
only pacers of any class among the
visitors. The last “Inters” here in
1953 attracted a galaxy of champions,
"clock ’em with THIS, mug!”
among them Ribands and Blue Mist
(world-record holders), Avian Derby
(1952 winner), Captain Sandy (dual
winner, 1950-53), Dainty Rose and
Tennessee Sky (1954 winner).
Caduceus, the flying machine from
N.Z., is worth going a long way to
see. Off the mask Hire a shot, he
paces effortlessly over any distance,
and has a brilliant burst of speed.
Frank Kersley, his reinsman, who has
driven hundreds of good horses,
declares him to be the “best ever.”
After his defeat of Radiant Venture
(scr.) from the 36yds.-peg on the
second night he became the idol of
the local crowd.
The one that so impressed
“R.A.C.” on the first night duly
landed the money, 7-to-4
favorite Radiant Venture win-
ning the 1957 Inter-Dominion
Grand Final in grand style on
the bit, with outsiders Robert
Sheen and Precipitation in the
places. Caduceus took two bad
knocks. However, the big South
Australian’s win could not have
been more convincing.
+ +
“Tiberius”: The best example
of the application of Law 47
(B. 6/2/’57) that I ever saw was
the dismissal of G. O. Allen for
handling the ball when playing
against an R.A.A.F. side at
Lord’s in 1945. Playing back
defensively to Roper, who later
played in a couple of Shield
games for N.S.W., Allen dropped
the ball at his feet. It rolled a
little, then came to rest no more
than an inch or two from the
stumps. To save the wicket-
keeper the trouble Allen picked
the ball up to throw it back to
the bowler. As he did so the
bowler appealed, obviously
thinking the ball had hit the
stumps before it stopped rolling.
Up went the umpire's finger and
Allen left the crease. For a split-
second none save Allen and the
umpire appeared to realise that
Allen had been given out for
handling the ball. When realisa-
tion dawned, efforts were made
to persuade him to come back,
but he declined.
“K.R.”: The proposed
changes in the laws, if adopted
by the M.C.C. and enforced,
should result in brighter cricket;
and, if successful in county-
cricket, should be extended. The
rule to limit on-side fieldsmen i£
a good one ; in-swing bowling to
a packed leg-field has cramped
and restricted stroke-making in
post-war cricket (a notable
instance, Bedser’s one-time
“hoodoo” on Morris, largely
produced by that method). Also,
umpires, in all grades of the
game, from Test-cricket down-
wards, have been too lenient as
regards time-wasting tactics (by
batsman or bowler, depending
on which side is up against it);
a firmer hand, as proposed,- in
ensuring that the game is got on
with would be to the good. Most
doubt has been expressed con-
cerning the limiting of each first-
innings to 85 overs; in some
circumstances this could, as
stated, result in negative cricket,
the opposite to what is sought.
“K.R.”: Some of the Old
Masters still have their eye in.
In benefit-matches for Bill
O’Reilly and himself, Stan
McCabe has been knocking-up,
with all his old brilliance, a
goodly number of runs, with
fours flowing freely. The Master
himself, Bradman, made 85 in a
recent mid-week game in
Adelaide. Also, Billy Ponsford,
in a Sunday game at St. Kilda
for the V.C.A. players’ provident-
fund, scored an attractive 26.
“Magellan”: A bowler in any
grade of cricket who takes 4-7
is not doing bad. On the one
Saturday recently three bowlers
that I know of had those
figures—John Drennan, for
Australia against Otago;
B. Watson for North Sydney
against University in Sydney’s
first-grade ; and, to- make a hat-
trick of it, Robert Grant, for
Grammar against Riverview, in
Sydney G.P.S. first-grade. In
Australia’s, following game,
against Minor Associations, 1
Benaud also took 4-7.
“Kejokada”: South Mel-
bourne the other day promoted
an American (“Hank the Yank”
Swedosh) to be opening-
batsman with its firsts. He’s
probably the only cricketing
Yank in these parts. The
previous week he’d made 123 for
the seconds, and began his first
innings with the firsts promisingly
(a lovely hooked four in the
second over), but was trapped
l.b.w. for 13—anyway, that ball
plight have got Bradman out, at
his peak. Hank is 23, an
accountant, has been in Aus-
tralia nine years, and has bden
playing cricket since he was
15, when he was at Melbourne
High. He plays a straighter bat
now than when he was more
interested in baseball.
“Stromlo”: The “perfect”
wicket has been found—and it’s
made of rubber. At an indoor
cricket-school near Birmingham
(Eng.) three wickets have been
laid, all on concrete covered
by asphalt. The surface of the
slow-paced wicket is of rubber,
that of the fast wicket of lino.,
and that of the medium-paced
wicket of a mixture of a plastic
and lino. The rubber surface, it
is said, is the perfect wicket able
to take spin, but offering equal
opportunity to batsman and
bowler. It is regarded as particu-
larly useful and safe for coach-
ing. Chief coach in the school is
former England and Warwick
batsman, E- J. (“Tiger”) Smith.
* * *
“Keima”: The Brisbane
“Courier - Mail’s” coaching
scheme for promising young
tennis-players was due to get
going on Monday (Mar. 4).
Harry Hopman was again to be
in charge. Queensland now
probably has more top-class
young tennis-players than at any
previops time —for instance,
Emerson, Anderson and Laver,
and, among the girls, Fay Muller
and Daphne Seeney. All have
been members of Hopman’s
earlier squads proof of the
value of the scheme.
>
Ken McGregor, who in
Adelaide is now thought-of more
as a West Adelaide ruckman than
as a tennis-player, will be missing
the early rounds this year
because of a damaged cartilage
in his left knee. His doctor was
amazed that he was able to play
at all in the recent professional
tennis-tournament. McGregor is
one of West’s hopes. Meanwhile,
as some compensation for his
absence, his father, Bruce
McGregor, who won the
Magarey Medal in 1926 and
1927 and who was one of the
longest kicks of his day, has
been advising West players at
training and, by report,
advising well.
* * *
Two V.F.L. clubs, St. Kilda
and Fitzroy, are .to have altered
uniforms this year. St. Kilda’s
is the most changed—back of
the guernsey black (instead of
red, white and black stripes),
with white collar, and sleeves
black (in place of white), with
red cuffs. The club’s socks will
also be changed— to red, black
and white hoops. Fitzroy’s blue
monogram in the front of the
tunic is to be changed to a
white plastic one. Reasons for
the changes: Fitzroy’s, that the
plastic monogram will be more
easily seen and can be kept
cleaner when it’s muddy; St.
Kilda’s, that the black sleeves
will make the Saints look bigger.
# * *
Peter Thomson finished
eleventh in the Houston (Texas)
£16,000 Open and collected £415.
Australian Open champion
Bruce Crampton finished in a
six-way tie for fourteenth place
to bag £3OO. Winner of the
tourney was former American
amateur champ, Arnold Palmer,
who finished with a nine-under
par 279) his kitty-, £3375.
i * * *
“Doormat”: John Landy
has given a gceat boost to sport
as a means of combating
juvenile-delinquency by deciding
to join the Victorian State-
sponsored Youth Organisations'
Assistance Committee. Landy’s
genial personality and great
prowess in sport, as well as his
practical understanding of kids
(he is a teacher at Geelong
Grammar), should mean success
for this set-up. Parliament has
voted £20,000 to the committee
to help establish new clubs and
train youth-leaders. With
Landy will be a professor of
physical education, a policeman,
health and education experts,
and youth-welfare men. With
John in the show it is antici-
pated that organised sport will
loom largely in this new blue-
print against vandalism. The
other day Landy announced that
he would not run again in top-
class athletics.


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce,
TO ALBERT FREDERICK COMPTON
late of Casino in the State of New South
Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that HAZEL
JEAN COMPTON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 192 of 1957 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 31st May 1957
and obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from COLLINS & POLLACK,
Solicitors, of Post Office Chambers, Vic-
toria Street, Grafton, or their Sydney
Agents, SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS,
Solicitors, of 169 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce. ,
TO JOHN ALEXANDER HEWITT late
of Toneurry New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY ELIZABETH
HEWITT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No, 3940 of 1956 on the ground ( of
desertion without just cause or excise
for 3 years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the Ist day of
Hay 1957 and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS.
Hibson, macphillamy & phippard,
Solicitors, of 43 Phillip Street, Sydney
J' DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AH Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS' BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agrents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Missing Friend
MARJORY ISABEL STEPHENS
WOULD any relatives or friends of the
above-named (also known as MADGE
ISABEL STEPHENS), who was bom at
Googee Bay, Sydney, Australia, in 1889,
and was the daughter of ALFRED
STEPHENS and MARGARET ANN
STEPHENS, please communicate with
the PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE, Rotorua,
New Zealand.
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BiVItREJRE
No Pads—
No Springs
The KEO - BARKERE
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. It cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
BARBER® DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 3h), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
*Tbe Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months subscription to 'The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME . .
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
‘The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/6/-
l
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy copy of The Flood that
Led to Fortune, by John R. Hauld-
ing (“Old Boomerang”), or any other
works by the same author.—6473.
Wanted, for old-age and invalid
(bed-ridden) pensioner of Queensland,
who composes farm and bush tales,
a typewriter.—6474.
To sell “Fair Girls and Gray
Horses,” by Will Ogilvie.—647s.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning ,of Kawanah (name of a
house)?
Information Sought
What is a homonym ?
It is a word which is pronounced
the same as another word, but which
differs in origin and meaning, and
may be spelt differently. Examples
are: “pair” and “pear”; “week” and
“weak”; “to,” “two” and “too”;
“see” and “sea”: “bare” and “bear”
(and also “bear,” the animal, and
“bear,” tb carry). “Story,” a tale or
narration, and "story ,” ' the floor of
a building, are also homonyms.,
* * * *
Aboriginal name for a home
meaning, say, “sea,” “near the sea,”
“camp” or “happy camp” ?
Sea —Bafrawal or Burrawal,
Garuwa, Kurrawa or Kuruwa, Moamf
(a Maori word), Terlungo or
Yerlungo, Tingira or Tingara,
Warringa; Iluka, near the sea;
Ulawong, view of the water; Illawarra,
high place near the sea; Nambucca,
entrance to the sea; Burrangarra, sea-
beach ; Modga, deep sea; Coryule, hill
by the sea; Elanora, Kooringal,
Warreen, home or camp near the
water; camp—Akora, Allawah, Arura,
Boimba, Bulumba, Gooyong, Kalana-
ganda, Kira 1 a , Minemoorong,
Mirang, Myoora, Noorla, Piltaka,
Tikana, Wybara, Yamba, Yaralla;
Cooinda, Karingal, Narbethong,
happy camp or place; Taronga,
beautiful view.
* * * *
Was there a class in ancient Rome
called the “clients''' ? Who were
they ?
Yes. In republican Rome, before
the Empire, the “clients” were
dependants or hangers-on of a
patrician family, usually freed slaves
or their descendants, poor citizens,
homeless refugees or strangers from
other cities. They were free to engage
in business in Rome and to accumu-
late property, though whatever they
acquired was by law the property of
the patron (i.e., the head of the
family to which the client attached
himself). “There is nothing like
clientship in modern Western society,
says F. R. Cowell in his Cicdro and
the Roman Republic (1956). “The
almost feudal dependence of clients
upon their patrons tremendously rein-
forced the political and social
influence of the leaders of society.
The patron would help his client by
giving him small parcels of land, a
few animals, food or small sums of
money. He would speak for him
or tell him what to do in his rare
encounters with public authority. In
return the obsequious client often
called t 6 pay daily deference to his
patron and was expected to rally to
his support if necessary with what-
ever powers he possessed. That he
Should support his patron politically
and vote the way the patron wanted
in the public assemblies was one of
the client’s least burdensome duties:”
As a class .clients came between
patricians and plebeians, but, unlike
the plebeians, did not resent their
dependence. •
* * * *
What were (1) best 10 batting-
averages by Australians in Tests in
England last year; (2) best 10 batting-
averages in the four Tests (one against
Pakistan, three against India) played
on the way home?
(1) For the five Tests in England
(* = not-out):
Not Highest
Inn. Out. Runs. Score. Av.
Burke 10 1 271 65 Sp.ll
Benaud 9 1 200 97 25.00
McDonald 10 243 89 24.30
Miller 10 1 203 61 22.55
Harvey 10 197 69 19.70
Lindwall 6 4 36 22* 18.00
Burge f 6 1 84 35* 16.80
Craig 1 4 -- 55 38 13.75
Mackay 6 73 38 12.16
Langley -4 2 21 14 .10.50
(2) For the other four Tests (three
innings or moire):; —
Not Highest
Inn. Out. Runs. Score. Av.
Burge 4 198 83 49.50
Harvey 6 259 140 43.06
Burke 6 197 161 32.83
Crawford 3 1 53 34 26.50
Langley 4 3 25 13* 25.00
Johnson 5 1 92 73 23.00
Mackay 4 87 29 21.75
Craig 5 100 40 20.00
Benaud 6 -r- 113 56 18.83
Lindwall 6 1 94 48* 18.80
* * * *
Origin of the name John Barleycorn
for strong drink ?
It was made popular by Burns, in
“Tam o’ Shanter” —“Inspiring bold
"Split any infinitives lately ?”
John Barleycorn, What dangers thou
canst make us scorn!” Burns, in his
“Strong Drink,” also apostrophises
“John Barleycorn, Thou king of
grain!” Earlier examples, as given by
Stevenson’s Book of Proverbs,
Maxims and Familiar Phrases, are
“A pleasant new ballad of the
bloody murther of Sir John Barley-
corn,” in an untitled wc/rk in the
Pepysian library (1620), “Sir John
Barley-corn’s the strongest knight,” in
John Ray’s English Proverbs (1670),
and “John Barleycorn has got a beard
Like any other man,” from Thomas
Percy’s Reliques of Ancient English
Poetry, “John Barleycorn” (1765).
* * * *
What was the Great Seal Case in
N.S.W. history?
This was a mild Constitutional crisis
in Jan., 1864, hinging around the
authority of either Governor-General
or Prime Minister to use the Great
Seal of the colony. It arose out of
long and complex legal argument,
between England and N.S.W., as to
the rights of people who bought
property in Sydney which had once __
been owned by John Tawell, hanged
for murder in England in 1845. When
the British Colonial Secretary
instructed that a deed of grant be
endorsed with the Great Seal, the
Governor, - General, Sir William
Denison, proceeded to act without
consulting the wishes of the Prime
Minister, Charles Cowper. He sent
for the Seal to Cowper, wlm had its
custody; and it was handed oyer, but
with it Cowper sent in his resignation
(which, however, was not accepted).
Cowper’s protest was that, under
responsible government, the Seal
should be usable only with the consent
of its custodian, the Prime Minister;
while Sir William Denison’s stand was
on the letter of his commission, which
gave him authority to keep and use
the Seal.
* * * *
Brief account of the railway disaster
at Sunshine (Vic.) some 50 years ago ?
On Easter Monday, April 20', 1908,
the Bendigo evening-train, drawn by
two engines and loaded with holiday-
makers returning to Melbourne, ran
past signals set at “caution” and
“danger” and crashed into the
Ballarat train, killing 44 and injuring
over 400. The drivers of the two
engines on the Bendigo train, Milburn
and Dolman, were both committed
for trial on a charge of manslaughter,
but were found not guilty. The cause
of the accident was never finally deter-
mined. An account of the coroner’s
inquiry, and of the possible causes of
the accident, was given by W. O.
Bagley, an expert on brakes who
assisted the coroner, in his Who Was
to Blame?, a cppy of which can be
seen at the Mitchell Library, Sydney.
Brief Answers
W.G.W.: (1) Clarence Michael
James Dennis; died at Melbourne,
June 21, 1938. (2> Lawrence Edward
Grace Oates (the explorer with
Scott’s expedition to the South Pole
who deliberately walked out into the
snow in order not to be a burden on
the others) died March 17, 1912
M.C.M.: (1) Interested to hear of
the formation of the Brisbane
Writers’ Group, and wish it all
.success. Thanks, too, for the kind
words of praise for our book-reviews.
(2) Also interested to hear of the
“waiting lint several strong” for The
Bulletin at Brisbane’s Public
Library A.G.R.: The Mitchell
Library, Sydney, can give you all
the information on the subject you
require G.V.K.: Your best plan
would be, as your overseas friend
also suggested, to send them over to
the U.S. market... .R.D.C.: Hasn’t
appeared yet, but certainly will in
due course L.E.F.: (1) A copy of
the book for review has not yet been
received. (2) Will be interested to con-
sider the article, when submitted
K.T.: (1) “Banjo” Paterson’s three
main books of prose are An Outback
Marriage (1906), a novel of station-
.life, Three Elephant Power and Other
Stories (1917), humorous stories of
bush-life, and The Shearer's Colt
(1936), a humorous story of a horse
named Sensation. (2) Have asked
in our Wants column (B. 27/2/’57)
for a copy -of the first two b00k5....
A.R.: Seven of the West Indies
cricket-team to tour England this
year came to Australia in 1951-52 —
Goddard, the skipper (who led the
team in Australia), Atkinson, the
three W’s (Walcott, Weekes and
Worrell) and the spin-bowlers Valen-
tine and Ramadhin... .D.E.: See
Commander Crabb, by Marshall Pugh,
just published, the story of Crabb’s
career. The last chapter deals with
the mystery of his last dive in Ports-
mouth Harbor J. 0.: The book is
Australian Poetry, 1956, selected by
A. A. Phillips, also recently published.
. ...W.W.H.: No such club is listed
in the latest Sydney Telephone
v
Directory J.F.S.Get in touch
with any insurance-company....
E.V.M,: Here are-< names and
addresses of some breweries in the
capital cities of - eastern States.
Sydney—Reschs, Ltd., Dowling-
street, Redfern; Tooheys, Ltd., 300
Elizabeth-street, City; Tooth and Co.,
Ltd., 26 Broadway; British Breweries,
610 Parramatta-road, Petersham;
Dressler’s Brewery (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
42 Balfour-road Chippendale. Mel-
bourne —Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.,
Cecil - street, South Melbourne;
Carlton and United Breweries,
Ltd., 16 Bouverie-street, Carlton;
Ecks Pty., Ltd., 1 Simmons-
street, South Yarra; Richmond N.S.
Brewing Co. Pty., Ltd., 654 Church-
street, Richmond, Brisbane—Castle-
maine Perkins, Ltd., Adelaide-street,
Brisbane; Queensland Brewery, Ltd.,
Centenary Place, Brisbane.... J.W.:
The word “number” (meaning a song
or musical item) derives from the fact
that, in the printed score of an opera,
each item is numbered consecutively
—for convenience of reference at
rehearsals.... J. 8.: Your specimen
is not a coin; it is an imitation of
a spade-guinea (George 111 reign),
made of brass and used for gambling,
card-playing, etc. It is of no value.
... .F.G.8.: Arthur P. Stewart
(Akubra Hats) Pty., Ltd., suggest that
you contact Casual Headwear Pty.,
Ltd., 959 Canterbury-road, Lakemba,
N.S.W., on the question of the
flexible straw-hat.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(24/2/’57)
Queensland should have general rain during March,
with the likelihood of severe flooding on the north coast
and ip the central-west and south-west. The possibility of
a cyclone developing off the central coast and traversing
south-east Queensland in the period at the beginning of
April, end of March, mentioned in the previous forecast,
is still indicated.
There should also be general rain in N.S.W. during
March, with the heaviest falls on the north coast. Good
follow-on rains should be received during April and May,
with the heaviest falls in the coastal areas. There is a
possibility of severe flooding on the north coast during May.
Victoria should have reasonably good rains in March,
although rainfall should vary from light to moderate in the
Wimmera, / western division and Gippsland. April is likely
to be a poor month, with general rain during May.
General rains are indicated in South Australia during
March, though the Main cycle indicates no really good rains
until July.
In Western Australia, heavy rains should occur in the
Kimberleys and north-west during March, and good falls
are likely in the West Gascoyne and part of the south coast.
LENNOX WALKER.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
M.S.: Opera-house Verse too
Bennelong-winded... i 8.8.: Slender.
-...5.R.G,: The “churning, clatter-
ing concrete-mixer” is churning and
clattering in the basket M.E.:
Nearly.,. .T.F.: “After some con-
sideration I’m beginning to think it’s
futile. Carving up our beaches in
search of the beastly rutile.” Really?
R.B.: Creaks along like a rusty
metronome A.1.W.: Nothing like
20 or 30 pages of improbability,
garnished with cliches J.O ’M.:
“Ode to Colonel Nasser” should have
been sunk in the Suez Canal K.L.:
That would be better in story-form.
Your hero is resting his
“weary, furrowed brow” in the
depths of the w.p.b R.L.: Alas,
“The Invalid” has developed rejec-
tionitis!... .W.M.0.: Sentimental
swaggie being returned H.H.:
Jazz-trumpeter playing “wide, low and
gutbucket” failed to impress the
Musical Editor.,. .F.P.H.: A very
ordinary plot related in a very
ordinary manner... .1.R.: Your
crook is sandbagged, knifed, shot,
[Stories, feature articles and
verse contributions are paid
for on acceptance: Paragraphs
are paid for on publication,
and the contributor must claim
for payment.]
poisoned, hung, electrocuted and
drowned —how does he manage to
stay alive? ... .Q.R.: Try a women’s
magazine K.S.: Poem on timber
sent to the nearest ant-nest
W.D.D.: Please! Must you rhyme
“mopoke” with “bloke” and
“swallow” with “fellow”? E.D.:
Drunken oboist given his taxi-fare
home H.G.: Well, you’re not say-
ing very much —but you’re saying it
badly, too G. 5.8.: The characters
wallow around in a sea of
uncertainty.... W.A.: Pointless
S.L.: Not our style.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established, Idub m Reign of
Qeorge 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
3ACKSON4
OSUILIVAtf
fackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Yor»
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSER 3
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL," BRISBANE
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
COMMUNISM AND THE WEST
-REVIEWING the past and
possible future of Com-
munism on the 40th anniversary
of the Russian Revolution,
Dibdin Ragland, in “Yorkshire
Post,” recalls that in 1917 the
Soviet was “a ruined, famished
land, with nothing left but the
people’s grim determination not
to go back.”
There followed slow recovery
during the “years of iron,” then
the German attack when “Russia
recoiled, absorbed tremendous
blows, yet gradually recovered
strength while Germany
expended hers”:
“But once again huge areas of
Russia were laid waste, millions
of Russians were dead. That
was 12 years ago.
“Now Russia is not afraid to
challenge America and West
Europe combined. With a
bewildering speed she has over-
hauled the West in atomic power,
nuclear weapons, jet and rocket
flight, intercontinental guided-
missiles, electronic controls and
automation. She is training far
more high-quality scientists and
technicians than the West. She
has not yet drawn level in sheer
output of steel or electric-power,
but even in these her rate of
growth is phenomenal. Her food-
supply is increasing more rapidly
than ever before.
“If relative rates of growth—
at compound interest —remain as
at present, then long before we
teach 1997 Russia will have left
the West far behind. That is one
of the basic facts which the West
must face, and face now, or go
by default.”
In the past, Ragland
comments, such a situation might
have been met by war, but “now
we know it is no longer
possible”:
“We might destroy Com-
munism, we might destroy
Russian power, but only by
destroying humanity. And yet
we cannot accept Communism.
We have seen too much of what
it means to the map himself, the
human-being, the animal Homo
and his soul. That is our
dilemma. Here is a conflict
which seems insoluble.
“Let us switch round and
look at the position from the
opposite direction. Let us put
ourselves in the Kremlin, look-
ing out at the Western world
which we -know we are overhaul-
ing in material things and from
which we have made ourselves
in effect invulnerable.
“The dilemma is still there —
the other way round and stood
on its head, but equally insoluble.
“Just as from 1917 onwards
the Western pundits foretold the
i m minent collapse of the
Soviet Union, so from 1917
onwards the Soviet pundits fore-
told the imminent collapse of the
capitalist' West. Each now is
immeasurably, stronger t h_a n
then.
“When Britain declared war
on Nazi Germany, Stalin pro-
claimed: ‘We are entering a
new period of wars and revolu-
tions.’ Wars came indeed. And
revolutions came, too ; but not
where Stalin expected them.
“Revolution came and suc-
ceeded in China, where Stalin'
right up to the last few months
never expected it. The Chinese
Communists won in spite of
Russia, not because of it, and
they have not forgotten.
“Where Stalin really did expect
Communist revolution, was in
industrial Europe, particularly
Germany ; and just < there it
refused to show any sign of
occurring. It was an aristocratic
colonel who threw the bomb at
Hitler. It was the Berlin workers
who revolted against Grotewohl.
“Stalin made one of the great
historical mistakes of Com-
munism : he imposed Com-
munist dictatorships on East and
Central Europe. Now the world
can see that in the satellites
Communism i§ hated. Now the
Russian people themselves can
see it. And for the Russians,
always taught to regard them-
selves as selfless liberators, the
revelation has been a sickening
shock.
“While Russia’s economic and
military might has enormously
expanded, her own Marxist
morale is crumbling before the
eyes of the West and before the
eyes of those who look out of
the Kremlin windows. This is a
crucial paradox of history.
Marxists account themselves
expert in historical paradox.
They did not expect this one,
and they cannot see their way
out of it. From the Kremlin
windows ,it appears that in
whichever direction they move—
whether denouncing Stalinism or
bombarding Budapest—they only
hasten the rot.”
None of the foregoing,
Ragland emphasises, should pro-
duce over-optimism on the part
of the West ; it is simply an
indication that the Kremlin’s
dilemma seems as insoluble as
that facing the West:
“Each side knows that this
time there is no solution in war.
But from that knowledge a new
realisation is beginning to dawn
on both sides: that on each side
is a crisis caused by the onset
of the new technological age.
That is what lies behind Mr.
Khrushchev’s call—fainter at the
moment, but it will be reissued
more strongly yet—for ‘coexist-
ence.’ That is what lies behind
Mr. Adlai Stevenson’s penetrate
ing vision in which the Capitalist-
Communist conflict becomes no
more a cause for war than the
Protestant-Roman Catholic
conflict.
“Both Communism and
capitalism will survive their
crises, but they will emerge
greatly changed. They will do
so partly because they must, and
partly because the crisis on each
side is only a node, an expres-
sion from two different angles,
of the actual process of adjust-
ment to these sweeping develop-
ments in world society.”
Listing some of the “enormous
problems” facing both sides, and
which cannot be solved by either
side alone, Ragland notes that
“nuclear weapons are one”:
“Another, for instance, is the
rapid increase in population—-
overwhelmingly swift,
incidentally, in China and Japan.
A third is the related geriatric
problem, of first-class and grow-
ing urgency. Another is the
spreading plague of -mental and
nervous illness and moral
malaise.
“Already the two sides are
gradually Coexisting’ more and
more closely, and indeed are
surreptitiously adopting ideas
from each other. Let us face
it—-the Welfare State owes some-
thing of its conception to Soviet
ideas ; as industries * become
more and more vital to the
London “New Statesman“
“GEE, HONEY, I’VE GOT NUTTIN ’ TO DO WID DEM
GUYS. MY INTENTIONS ARE STRICTLY HONORABLE ”
whole of society, capitalism tends
to nationalise them.
“On the Communist side the
newer Chinese Communism pays
compensation to dispossessed
capitalists. In Russia herself the
individual’s desire for private
property is no longer condemned
but acknowledged as natural.
Religion, too, is even finding its
place on certain State occasions.
The Communist leaders are
approaching—they have by no
means yet reached it —recogni-
tion that man has a soul.
“The conflicts between Com-
munism and the West will go
on for a while ; sometimes sharp,
perhaps sharper than the Clash
over Suez and Hungary ; but I
believe they will, because they
must, gradually dissolve as the
field of necessary co-operation
widens.”
Britain's H-bomb
Commenting on at least one
useful aspect of Britain’s forth-
coming explosion of an H-bomb
at Christmas Island, “Manchester
Guardian” suggests that, if the
bomb goes off according to plan,
it may serve to convince the
U.S. Congress that “the time has
come for a sensible interchange
of information on the design of
these weapons”:
“This may seem an elaborate
and expensive way of making
the point that it is not possible
to confine scientific progress
within national frontiers: the
parallel development of atomic
energy in the three biggest indus-
trial nations ought to have done
this trick a long time ago. But
it has not.
“There is a chance that the
British bomb may do so. In any
case, it should be a telling
demonstration of the waste of
national resources on both sides
occasioned by the independent
development of almost identical
weapons.
“So the [British] Government
ought to seek an Anglo-
American agreement on atomic
weapons once the noise has died
down at Christmas Island. The
Government ought also to take
the initiative in hammering out
some agreement for the limitation
of the hydrogen-bomb tests. We
are still in the dark about the
danger to health and life that all
this radio-strontium will bring.”
On the dangers of radio-
strontium, New York “Herald
Tribune” adds that a group of
Columbia University, scientists,
who have made the first world-
wide study of the effects of this
fallout, have reached, in their
own words, a “heartening
conclusion.”
The scientists based their study
“on 500 samples of human bone
collected from all five continents,
and ranging in age from birth
to 60,” and found that the
content of radio-strontium in the
average man “is one ten-
thousandth of ‘the presently
accepted maximum permissible
concentration.’
“In other words, the danger
of bone-cancer from the testing
of hydrogen-bombs so far is so
negligible as to be non-existent.”
Depression
Secretaryjo the U.S. Treasury
Humphrey’s reference to “a
depression that will curl your
hair” having apparently already
curled quite a few people’s hair,
“New York Times” points out
editorially that Mr.. Humphrey
was “talking of general tax and
fiscal policies over a long period
of years, and what he actually
said was this:
“I would certainly deplore
the day that we [the U.S.]
thought we couldn’t ever reduce
expenditures .of this terrific
amount and the terrific amount
of taxes we are taking. If we
don’t [do Something about this]
over a long period of time I will
predict you will have a depres-
sion that will curl your hair.”
“That,” the ' “N. Y. Times”
comments, “is not only hardly a
prediction of imminent depres-
sion ; it is hardly a point of view
with which most Americans,
including those in the
Administration, would disagree.”
Second-class?
Cincinnati (U.S.A.) “Post”
comment on the talk that
“Britain has been reduced to
second-class status among the
great nations of the world”:
“If we measure a country only
by its military strength and
money, then Britain has been in
second rank for some time. But
there are other things that count,
as Prime Minister Macmillan
said :
“ ‘The country (Britain) that
produced the men who invented
the steam-engine, gave us
penicillin and discovered radar,
and the men who first mastered
the atom ; the country that built
the first atomic power-station,
has no reason to quiver before
temporary difficulties.’
“Mr. Macmillan might also
have recalled that the country
which produced a race of men
who built and developed the
United States-and the Common-
wealth and who—when the chips
were do.wn in 1940-41 —stood
alone defiantly against Hitler has
nothing for which to apologise.”
The R.N.
It was noted here last week
(from London “Economist”)
that, from Nato’s point of view,
the most important British con-
tribution to the defence of
Europe lies in the four Army
divisions in Germany, British
Air Force and Naval contribu-
tions being regarded, in the
overall view, as more readily
dispensable.
The problem is how to dove-
tail that view with Britain’s
urgent search for economies in
its £ 1500-million annual defence
expenditure, and it is to be
hoped, comments the Naval
correspondent of London “Time
and Tide,” that Defence Minister
Sandys will aim at “streamlining
all three Services to the require-
ments of the atomic age, in which
the core of military power is
as much the machine —not the
man—as it is in industry”:
“This applies most of all to the
Navy. There is plenty that can
be done to improve the Navy,
but severe economies could
wreck it—to a greater degree
than the other two Services—at
a time when its strength and
growth are vital.
“Among the reasons for
modernising and developing the
Navy in relation to tne other
Services are these:
“(a) Chains of air-bases at
vital points like Malta and
Cyprus are no longer secure and
permanent.
“(b) Aircraft-carriers can now
take all but the very largest
planes. They can be switched to
any chosen centre and are less
vulnerable than bases. Their
mobility enables a concentration
of power to be moved rapidly
against any threat and to be
shifted as the centre-of-threat
shifts.
“(c) Carriers and cruisers can
now carry several types of
offensive rocket-missiles and
defensive anti-aircraft rockets,
as for example the type being
produced by Armstrong-
Whitworth. Carriers can range
the world with large bomber,
defensive and reconnaissance
planes. Warships can also carry


Will chemicals cure
cancer?
Today chemicals can com-
pletely destroy cancer cells in
test tubes ... and partially
destroy cancer in the human
body, thus easing pain and pro-
longing life. Now, with “the
greatest mobilization of re-
sources ever undertaken to
conquer a single disease,”
there’s a hint of future victory
in the air.
March Reader’s Digest re-
ports on the advances medicine
has made in its all-out chemi-
cal war against cancer. There
are many other absorbing
Articles, too, all condensed
from leading magazines and
books to save you time and
expense. Buy your copy of
March Reader’s Digest only
2/- at all newsagents and book-
stalls today!
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious Private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over 50 Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
In Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
IXL
This World Famous Brand i&
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
, SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—•
SHIPPING—INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
and support streamlined ground-
troops.
“(d) Submarines can carry
deadly weapons of offence and
can be expected before long to
be self-supporting at almost
unlimited ranges.”
Comparing Naval power,
the writer adds that “Intelligence
reports indicate that both Russia
and America are pressing ahead
with Naval development on an
unprecedented scale. America —
which not" so long ago had a
smaller Navy than Britain —now
has one nearly six times as large,
and reports indicate that Russia
is on a par with America,
although there are big differences
in the compositions of their
fleets.
“Both countries are adding
about 50 major warships a year
to their Navies and converting
nearly as many. Russia has
about twice as many submarines
(over 400) as America, but
America leads ; the world in
aircraft-carriers,' including
several giants of 76,000-tons
displacement when loaded.
America and Russia each have
about a million enlisted men in
Navy and Marines, compared
with about 135,000 in Britain
and 70,000 in France.
“America has spent more than
£30.000 million on the Navy since
the war and Russia nearly
£45,000 million. Relative costs
per ton are not jcnown, and
indeed Russia has always
shrouded her Naval development
more carefully than any other
‘Power.”
Conceding that there should
be “considerable pruning” in the
Royal Navy, the “Time
and Tide” writer con-
cludes, however, that it
should be effected among the
battleships and cruisers preserved
in the Reserve Fleet; among the
nine obsolete cruisers still main-
tained at sea ; and in the weight
of the ‘tail,’ which has been
put as high as 50 per cent.
“In the future the Navy’s
function will be to provide
mobile atomic defence and
retaliatory bases—while still safe-
guarding the sea-routes. Inter-
Service machinery will become
more and more important if
only for one very good reason:.
that the electronic and atomic
skills, which are the key to
modern Service efficiency and
strategy, require not only funda-
mental scientific skills and in-
ventions in which Britain is
happily blessed —but also a con-
siderable strength of scientific
manpower, in and out of the
Services.
“It is in this particular that
we [Britain] are most unhappily
placed. The annual British out-
put of technologists is only 7
per cent, of Russia’s and 15 per
cent, of America’s. This means
that we have not enough skilled
manpower to apply to the many
projects we are attempting.
“Wise cuts in defence, aimed
at releasing manpower to in-
crease this technological
relationship, will eventually
improve our defensive and
offensive strengths. We must also
aim at dovetailing our efforts
with those of America and the
other Western Powers, rather
than competing with them in so
many fields.”
The Soviet Budget
British and U.S. press-
comment on the 1957 Soviet
Budget, which provides for
considerable modifications to the
sixth Five Year Plan, launched
in 1956:
“New York Times”: “The
new ‘more exact’ sixth Five
Year Plan scheduled to be
drawn up this year will be sub-
stantially less ambitious than the
draft so widely publicised only
a year ago. Both heavy-industry
ahd consumer-goods production
will be affected by the cutback.
Angry words are now being
uttered condemning unnamed
miscreants who drew up the first
draft of the plan and created
‘excessive tension’ between the
country’s objectives and its
capabilities. Curiously, no
Soviet writer cfr speaker appears
to recall that it was Premier
Bulganin who presented last
year’s ‘bad’ plan to the Soviet
people and endorsed it”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“In view of the Kremlin’s
repeated avowals that it would
lead the way in reducing arma-
ments by cutting-down the size
of its military, establishment, it
is interesting to note that last
year’s appropriation of about
97,000 million roubles for the
armed forces has only been
chopped down to 96,000 million,
a decrease of a little over 1 per
cent. Yet at the same time,
Soviet heavy industry, which
contributes to the war-machine,
is to increase its production by
nearly 8 per cent., while light
industry, which manufactures
what few consumer-goods are
available, is scheduled to rise—
although there is no promise
that it will—by about 6 per
cent.
“This would seem to indicate
more spending on nuclear
ILLINGWORTH, IN LONDON “DAILY MAIL ”
weapons, ballistic missiles and
military-minded scientific edu-
cation at the expense of peace-
minded learning, housing, shoes
and clothes for the citizens of
the U.S.S.R.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”
correspondent: “One serious
limiting factor is the shortage
of labor. There was a sharp
fall in the birth-rate during the
war years, and this generation
is now beginning to reach work-
ing age. The .extension of
schooling and the demands of
agriculture are further obstacles
in expanding the industrial
labor-force. This must help to
explain the decision to
demobilise a considerable
number of troops in 1956. It
also accounts for the increasing
emphasis on efficiency, produc-
tivity and economy, as distinct
from mere quantity of produc-
tion.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”
editorial comment: “W hat
appears to be happening is that
while the total amount of invest-
ment continues to rise in the
Soviet Union, a higher propor-
tion of it is going into projects
which do not produce an
immediate return. It is impos-
sible to say what these projects
are. It may be that Soviet
industry is embarked on certain
technological changes, involving
big expenditure in the initial
stages and a period of waiting
before the final results begin to
mature. One possible pointer
is the promised Russian pro-
gramme for the widespread
introduction of automation.
This has still to be launched.
There are, no doubt, Other
technological developments of
a more mundane character,
from which the immediate
return in terms of increased out-
put in 1957 will be limited.”
China and the U.S.
Press
The further development in
the barney between the U.S.
press and the State Department
over the latter’s refusal to allow
correspondents to accept an
invitation to visit Red China
doesn’t seem to have made any-
one any happier.
Mr. Dulles’s latest objection is,
as New York “Herald Tribune”
puts it, “that the Chinese Com-
munists ‘have said in effect that
they want to have certain
American correspondents come
to Communist China and will
hold Americans in jail until we
allow them to come.’ The
Secretary of State added: ‘I
don’t believe that the bodies of
American citizens ought to be
made a subject for that kind of
barter.’
“Previously,” the “Herald
Tribune” comments, “not a word
of this theory had been pro-
pounded by the State Depart-
ment, which had simply argued
that it was unsafe for American
newspapermen to go beyond the
protection of their passports —
into a country unrecognised by
the United States. To make it
even less safe, the department
threatened legal action against
any correspondent willing to
take the risk.
“This was an unprecedented
action. It ignored the funda-
mental fact that it is not only
the right but the duty of the
American press to seek out the
news where it can be found, and
it is the moral obligation of the
American Government to help,
not to hinder, that process.”
Also taking Mr. Dulles to
task, James Reston, in “New
York Times,” comments that “of
all the good and valid arguments
he (Dulles) could properly bring
forward against the press, he has
chosen the worst”:
“He has decreed, with the
backing of the President, that
American newspapers and maga-
zines cannot send reporters to
Communist China because (a)
the Chinese Communists are
wicked people who hold 10
Americans in jail and otherwise
violate acceptable rules of inter-
national conduct; (b) the United
States does not recognise Com-
munist China and therefore can-
not provide protection for
reporters there; (c) the Com-
munists are trying to hand-pick
American reporters who will
spout Communist propaganda:
and ( d) finally, the Communists
are trying to ‘blackmail’ the
United States by holding the 10
Americans in jail until the
reporters are permitted to go to
China.”
Listing the correspondents
who have been invited —and they
include such able writers as Cyrus
Sulzberger and four other
“N. Y. Times” men ; Edward R.
Murrow, of the Columbia Broad-
casting System; Marquis Childs,
of the “St. Louis Post-Dispatch” ;
and A. T. Steele, of New York
“Herald Tribune” —Reston adds
that not one of them “has been
fooled very often by any official,
including Mr. Dulles”:
“This myth of the gullible
American reporter is as bogus as
the myth of the gullible
American diplomatic innocent
abroad. If there is any solid
tradition of American reporting
it is the tradition of scepticism
toward Government pronounce-
ments. Nobody in the world
has added so much to this
tradition of scepticism as the
Communists, for they have lied
to reporters more than other
officials.
“Finally, the most disturbing
thing about this whole debate is
Mr. Dulles’s flat statement that
he cannot permit reporters to go
to Communist China because the
Peking regime has tried to make
a ‘deal’ with him to release the
American prisoners in China if
he will let the reporters into
China.
“If true, this is the best offer
from the Communists since the
invention of vodka.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Teachers
N. S. Wales trainee-teachers lately
staged a demonstration to publicise their
inadequate allowances.
The Education Department expects
Mum and Dad largely to support cadet-
teachers, to whom, on graduation, it pays
disproportionate salaries in the hope of
attracting sufficient numbers. Mum and
Dad, of course, miss out on any re-
imbursement.
Let the department pay sufficient to
support trainees for the few necessary
years, then recoup itself by adjustment of
the first seven years’ pay of those who
have benefited under the increased scale.
It will then have no shortage of recruits
to an occupation in which a major pro-
blem, even to Australians, is budgeting
for excessive holidays.— Myrlo (N.S.W.),
Age
It’s a pity that social science doesn’t
keep up with medical science.
In the last 50 years the expectation of
life has been increased by at least five
years, yet we are still paying pensions and
forcing compulsory retirement at 60 to
65 years of age.
Old people are not just being kept alive
to linger longer on their death-beds.
Because they escape the effects of
diseases during their early lives, they
have much more stamina towards the end.
A man of 65 today is, on the average,
as efficient, bright and energetic as a man
of 55 was some decades ago.
The compulsory retiring-age should
be lifted by at least five years, as should
the age for the payment of pensions.
The shorter working-week is a good
thing—it gives the worker a chance to
develop interests outside and to indulge in
his hobbies—but the shorter working-life
is not so good. It means a loss to the
nation of a lot of experience and willing-
ness and the rusting-away of many men
who still have much to give the country.
—No Sirrah (Q.).
Public Transport
The Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works master parking-plan for
Melbourne and suburbs —a 47-page
report recently adopted and submitted
to the Public Works Minister —suggests,
among other things, that motorists be
urged to use public transport in their
daily journeys to and from the city.
The tremendous increase in the number
of cars in daily usp has certainly been
responsible both for the city’s parking
chaos and for the decline in public-trans-
port patronage since 1947, but asking
motorists to use trains, trams and buses
will achieve nothing. The car is becom-
ing the principal mode of regular daily
transport, and the day is not far distant
when public transport will cater for the
minority of travellers.
With continued full employment, often
of both husband and wife, ownership of
a car is regarded as a necessity rather than
a luxury, and once a person becomes
accustomed to the comfort and con-
venience of a car he is reluctant to use
other means of travel. The question of
relative cost, therefore, is often disre-
garded. In any case, fares are now so
high that the saving in using public' trans-
port is frequently negligible.
Another contributing factor to the
preference for car-travel is the growth of
the metropolis. Before the war, compara-
tively few people lived in the outer
suburbs; now, a large number have to
make a journey of 10, 15, or 20 miles each
way—sometimes more. That takes a long
time by train. By car, the time is halved
and comfort and convenience are im-
measurably greater.
During the last, few days my car has
been laid-up. My normal 15-mile drive
to the city takes from 35 to 45 minutes,
according to traffic-conditions; I can
park close to the office, which is about
a mile from the city’s centre. Public
transport means, for me, a 15-minute
bus-ride, a 45-minute train-trip, and a
10-minute tram-trip, plus at least 20
minutes’ walking and waiting in between
changes. Total: an hour-and-a-half
each way. The cost is more than I
spend on petrol and oil daily.
The board’s plan may have something
in its suggestions of better co-ordina-
tion of tram, bus and train timetables
and the of car-parks at
suburban stations, but these are merely
palliatives. The car is here to stay, and
the city’s car-parking problem is one that
must be solved. — Wusslean (Vic.).
Courts-martial
Puzzled by a reference to courts-
martial contained in the N.Z. Army Rules
of Procedure, 1951 —an Order-in-Council
made under the provision of the Army
Act 1950 —I approached the legal drafts-
man responsible for the drafting of the
rules.
The relevant section, No. -23, reads,
“Neither the prosecutor nor the accused
has any right to object to counsel, if
properly qualified.” The explanation
given me was an eye-opener. The law-
draftsman himself had acted as defending
counsel at courts-martial held during the
last scrap, though he, a qualified lawyer,
was only a humble gunner in the Army.
In every other Army but that'of New
Zealand, defence counsel had to be, and
still must be, an officer, and that was the
case even though on many, if not most,
occasions, the officer had had no legal
training whatever and was quite unfitted
for the job.
General Freyberg had realised what is
patent to any thinking person —that great
injustice could be meted out under this
archaic system, and off his own bat he
permitted offenders to be represented by
N.C.O.s and privates, provided these were
qualified.
The law-draftsman, with lively recol-
lections of what he had witnessed in con-
nection with other Armies, took special
pains to ensure that Freyberg’s system
would continue in perpetuity so far as his
own courttrymen were concerned. Seems
to me that Australia might well follow
suit.—M.S.N. (N.Z.).
Migrants
“Ray d’O.” (B. 13/2/’57) forgets that
British migrants to Australia leave a high
standard of living behind them—far
higher than does the German migrant,
whom “Ray d’O.” seems to favor. The
“ I'm trying to think of a Word that isn't in Webster's or the Oxford."
British standard of living is in many ways
superior to the Australian, and the British
migrant is used to many little comforts
that he cannot get here.
Undoubtedly some migrants—and not
only from the U.K.—come just for the
ride and have no intention of remaining
in Australia. . Many, however, have the
real pioneering spirit. They have sold-up
their homes, bidden friends and relatives
goodbye and come here to settle down.
They have come because they believe
“Poor Nellie —three hours now, and STILL cant get the last Word!”
thajt their prospects and those of their
children will be better here than in Great
Britain.
As part of my job I board the ships
bringing out the British migrants and
meet many hundreds during a year'. It
takes courage to pull up one’s roots and
start life afresh in a new country.
Most British migrants are from towns
and cities. We cannot expect them to
people cur empty spaces if they know
nothing of country life. “Ray d’O.” says
we must look to our own young adven-
turers or the good German stock. I
think he will have to rely more on the
Germans —our own young people haven’t
shown much keenness yet for the empty
•spaces.
But surely our migration scheme is
aimed at the future? We need not get
upset because some migrants find it hard
to settle down in a strange country.
Their children will settle, and they are
the ones we really look to. — Yakipan
(Vic.).
Australia and the “Third Force”
“Dick Turpin” rightly warns us to
beware lest the “Third Force” movement
(B. 6/2/’57) strangles our growing
secondary industries and relegates us to
producing cheap food for Europe.
But the position is more complicated
than his remarks suggest. Some form of
European union seems to be inevitable
unless the countries of Europe are to
sink to the economic status of Cuba or
Czechoslovakia, and, though we could
not join it on the terms suggested by
“D.T.’s” quotation, it is hard to see how
we could keep out of it on any terms.
Important though our secondary indus-
tries may be, our economy is based, and
will be based as far ahead as we can see,
on our primary exporting industries, and
it would be suicidal to endanger them.
Our chief markets are in Europe, England
in particular, and to remain outside
such a union might involve losing them.
“National self-reliance” sounds fine, but
where are the alternative markets? In
any case, the day seems to have passed
when even a great Power can be com-
pletely self-sufficient, economically or
militarily.
The only other alternative, since the
Russian bloc is out of the question for
us, is to move closer to the U.S.A. But
there is no chance of expanding markets
there, except for a few items such as
uranium, rutile and kangaroo-skins. And
militarily the U.S.A. is an unreliable ally.
Its record shows that it will not act till
its own vital interests are directly and
imminently threatened, which might
easily be after we had gone down the
drain.
On top of all that, cultural and senti-
mental affiliations carry more weight than
“D.T .” seems prepared to admit. Faced
with the prospect of any form of Euro-
pean union that includes Britain, our best
bet seems to be to negotiate for entry on
terms that will leave us free to develop a
balanced economy, without interference
from any super-Socialist planners on the
other side of the world. The situation
calls for statesmanship of the highest
order, unfettered by party-political
prejudices.— Magnoon (Q.).
Oil Search
An oil-strike is apt to send the stock-
market soaring, but it is well to remem-
ber what comes after a find —assuming
the oil is found in commercial quantities
and its capture presents no insuperable
technical difficulties.
Although the cost of drilling can be
staggering, it is dwarfed by the expense
of developing a field. Millions of pounds
must be spent and several years may
elapse before the regular flow of oil
starts from a new field to the refineries
In one jungle-field overseas, nine years
passed before the first commercial ship-
load was obtained.
Most of Australia’s present drilling-
sites are found in remote areas —in
jungles west of Port Moresby, in central
Queensland, in the spinifex wastes of
Westralia’s north-west. Only two sites
can be said to be relatively close to civi-
lised amenities —Kurrajong Heights, 50
miles from Sydney, and Lakes Entrance,
190 miles from Melbourne.
Oil-experts estimate that to move the
gear and personnel required to get an
isolated field working would require four
specially designed river-tankers, 15
barges, 11 launches, eight motor-boats,
two landing-barges, eight other craft, an
ocean terminal-wharf 700 ft. long and
900 ft. wide at the loading-end, two river
terminal-wharves, 90 cars and buses, 228
lorries, 37 trailers, eight forklift trucks,
47 heavy-duty tractors, 35 cranes and
pieces of roadmaking equipment, three
mobile oil-well cementing-units and two
passenger-cargo aircraft.
The same authorities say a typical
modern oilfield needs 218 miles of pipe-
line, 85 miles of steel well-casing, 62
miles of well-tubing,, nine miles of drill-
pipe, 58 oilwell pumping-units, 181 oil,
water and construction pumps, 54 storager
tanks of various sizes and some 130 well-
head control-valve systems.
Add hospitals, schools, .homes and
recreational facilities for technical and
other skilled workmen and their families
and something of the real picture begins
to emerge.
None of this, of course, takes account
of long and patient exploration, mapping
and construction and countless man-hours
of planning. Nor can it account for the
element of risk that often lingers in
spite of the most promising indications.
Small wonder that such a task taxes
even the richest oil-companies. In such
a colossal gamble the stakes must be pro-
portionately rewarding. — Xavier (Vic.;.


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
: V".
JPI 110P1 1
t * '
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
C. E„ KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
Today's Centenary
Sydney Grammar Old Boys
By M. H. ELLIS
rTrr° RLD WAR I changed
\V/ entirely the life of
W Sydney Grammar
School, of which the
foundation centenary is being
celebrated today. The earlier
history of the school told here
last week was but a prelude
to a spreading of the school s
reputation and length of reach
into the body politic through
war and civic service, scholar-
ship and sport.
Its great headmaster and grand
moulder, Alfred Bythesea
Weigall, died in 1912, too early
to watch the New Guinea Con-
tingent march down College-
street on August 18, 1914, on
their way to embark ; or to hear,
before that month was over,
that the first of his “old boys”
to die in the war, Lieutenant
W. M. Chisholm, had been killed
at Mons.
The old man died five years
after the school jubilee without
knowing of the sacrifice of 65
young Sydneian lives on
Gallipoli, one of the earliest
Brigadier-General McLaurin, in
command of the imrriortal First
Brigade, who was killed two
days after the Landing.
No fewer than 171)0 Sydneians
served in World War I, and 301
did not come back. The school
sent more boys than qny other
Australian great public School—
or school of any kind —and it
made the war its own, so that the
acting headmaster, Mr. Lucas,
referred feelingly to the crucial
period of 1916-17 as “the
bitterest days in my experience,"
with “old boys” marching down
College-street in the early-dawn
dark almost every week and
calling up to him their farewells.
Mr. Sloman, the liew head-
master appointed in 1913 to suc-
ceed Weigall, had gone to
England, to join the Army and
win an M.C. in France. All
sorts of “old boys,” and still-
attending boys, went to the war
in 1914-18, from Sir Harry
Chauvel, Australia’s first
lieutenant-general, now com-
memorated by an endowment
at S.G.S., to the youth who came
back and was inducted into a
class by the headmaster with the
introduction: “This man has
been making history for two
years ; now he has time to learn
some.”
Mr. Lucas followed Mr.
Sloman, who resigned at the
war’s end to become headmaster
of Tonbridge School in England.
Lucas was a naturalist of note,
the leading authority on Aus-
tralian algae. He had been head-
master of Newington. He was
both a classical scholar and
accomplished in the modern
languages, and when he resigned
his mastership at the age of 70,
to be replaced by H. S. Dett-
mann, Professor of Classics at
Auckland College in New
Zealand University, he served
for two years as Professor of
Mathematics at the University of
Tasmania.
Mr. Dettmann died in
January, 1'940, having weathered
all the changes incident to the
revolt against classical teaching,
and growing emphasis on com-
mercial and scientific subjects of
the modern school which
brought about a vast reorienta-
tion of school effort in the
1920’5.
His was the task of cushioning
the school against the impacts of
the depression, of standing up
to the new competition created
by the development of State
high-schools and' the growth of
the other great public' schools.
He had to face falling attend-
ances—from 700 down to 550 —
in the early 1930’5, the with-
drawal of the Government sub-
sidy and the severance from
Government connections—which
the trustees welcomed. The
£l5OO had become a drop in the
bucket, in the school’s expenses.
He had bar,ely retrieved the
position and brought the
numbers back to 700 when he
died and gave, place to Mr.
Frederick George Phillips, who
had become senior master in
1924, had long been in charge
of the Lower School and was
now called on to face unpre-
cedented war-time conditions ;
one of his first problems was
caused by the enlistment of eight
masters during his first year of
office.
■ Mr. Phillips retired at 70, in
an age of whirling changes,
inflation and rising costs in 1950,
handing over to Mr. C. O.
Healey, M.A., T.D., who had
been at school at Lancing
College and, like Weigall, at
Brasenose, in Oxford. He had
taken honors in classics and
gained his university blue for
athletics, and he had served in
the war with the Ox. and Bucks,
and as an instructor at Sand-
hurst. He was well-equipped to
steer the school through the
rapids of the newest revolution
into the nuclear era and to
organise with ordered haste the
suddenly-needed scientific facili-
ties called for by the new
atomic-age learning and cope
with rapid expansion.
With 1300 boys—922 in the
central school, the rest in the two
junior schools —S.G.S. reaches
its centenary at the peak of its
reputation and vigor. It has pro-
duced no fewer than 16 Rhodes
Scholars and innumerable other
firstrrank scholars of note. About
23,000 boys have passed through
the school.
Its rolls hold the name of a
Lord Mayor of London, Sir
Leslie Boyce.
Of its first day’s 110 enrol-
ments on August 3, 1857, one
boy (Boyd Morehead) became
Premier of Queensland and
founder of the great pastoral
firm of Moreheads, Ltd.,
one Mayor of Sydney (C. R.
Roberts), one a knight (Sir
Matthew Harris), one a Supreme
Court judge (C. S. Mein) and
a round dozen figured in the
higher ranks of the law and
commerce, including Arthur
Allen, and the Dixsons of
tobacco fame. It schooled two
Chief Justices of New South
Wales, Sir Philip and Sir
Kenneth Street, father and son,
and one of Queensland, Sir
Pope Cooper.
Its military notables include
Chauvel, McLaurin, Major-
Generals Legge, Antill, James
Macarthur - Onslow, J. D.
Richardson, W. J. V. Windeyer
(grandson of Sir William Win-
REUNION IN JERUSALEM
The photograph is of a “reunion dinner on active service attended by Old Boys of
S.G.S. at Fast’s Hotel, Jerusalem, July 31, 1918.” Reading clockwise round the table
from the figure nearest the reader those present are: Lieut. J. C. Storey, G. N. Tregarthen,
Major “Weary” (A. G.) Walker, Major D. C. Close, C. J. Vyner (1st A.F.C.), Lieutenant-
Colonel C. D. Fuller, D.S.O. (C.O. 6th A.L.H. and Temp. Brigadier 2nd Brigade
A.L.H., 1917-18), Capt. R. C. D. Gcirnoch (2nd A.L.H.), N. G. Ducker (7th
A.L.H.), Capt. J. A. Chauvel (partly obscured), E. D. Brown (far end of table), D. F. P .
Roth, C. S. Paul (A.F.C.), H. G. Humphries, J. P. G. Cox, Colonel J. D. (“Bull”)
Richardson (C.O. 7th A.L.H.), Lieut.-General Sir Harry Chauvel, Major J. R. C. Davies,
M.C., V.D. (12th A.L.H.; one of the chief actors in the final rout of the Turks at
Beersheba), Capt. F. C. Thompson (2nd A.L.H.), Lieut. D. M. O’Connor (1st A.L.H.),
Capt. R. C. Rose and Lieut. E. G. Donkin.
deyer, an early trustee, and
himself, in the centennial
year,. yice - chairman of
trustees), Callaghan of
Malaya, and Brigadier Geoff
Street, who as Minister for the
Army was killed with Sir Brude-
nell White in an aircraft crash
early in the war ; also, Mould,
of the R.A.N., who won his
George Cross in perilous mine-
decontamination operations
one of the four - or five men to
hold both G.C. and G.M. ; and
Brigadier Rex Rabett, and Geoff
Cox and Murchison, 2nd A.I.F.
In Parliamentary life it
claims, as well as Barton and Sir
John Peden, R. E. O’Connor,
who, with another “old boy,”
George Rich, and Barton, was
elevated to the High Court
Bench. Also countless members
of the Federal and State Parlia-
ments. There are three in the
Federal Parliament todgy, one
in the Ministry—Mr. McMahon.
Among University Professors,
outside Peden, there were Fred
Wood, Ward, Lowenthal, Rennie
and many others. *
In law, apart from the judges
already named, Justices C: S.
Mein, Milner Stephen, Les
Herron, Keith Ferguson, Sly,
Ken Manning, Dovey, along
with a galaxy of K&C.s and
Q.C.s Richard Windeyer,
doyen of the N. S. Wales Bar,
Clive Teece, Jack Want, E. M.
Mitchell, W. J. V. Windeyer and
many more, and, in the “lower
branch,” the Allens, Norman
Cowper, Dr. Waddell and a
hundred more whose names
are known wherever a law-book
is opened. In engineering there
were men like Sir John Tivey.
To medicine the school con-
tributed, apart from professors,
Sir Hugh Poate, Sir Robert
Wade,* Sir Norman Gregg, R A.
Maguire, Hugh Barry, Sir
Norman Paul; to music, Dr.
Keith Barry and Mackerras, of
the A.B.C. Commerce received
the Knoxes, of the Colonial
Sugar company, and the
Vicarses, pioneers of wool-
manufacture; the pastoral
industry its Frederick Mac Master
and Norman Kater.
“Banjo” Paterson was an “old
boy” of the school; so were
Barcroft Boake and J. Le Gay
Brereton, who once edited the
“Sydneian.” Robert Fitz Gerald
is another “old boy.” Dowell
O’Reilly was both scholar and
master. Robert Garran, trans-
later of Heine, a-lyricist as well
as a Constitutionalist, wa s
a captain of the school, like
Hubert Murray of Papua and
Edmund Barton ; yet another is
Tom Inglis Moore. J. H.
and Geoffrey were old
S.G.S. boys.
Jn sport, the names of many
a Sydneian is famous the world
over.
In swimming “old boys”
include Freddie Lane, who won
four Olympic gold-medals and
broke many world records.
There were the three Long-
worths, one of whom won all the
Australian and State freestyle
championships in 1911-12 ; Moss
Christie, an Australian Olympic
representative of 1924; Athol
Coppleson, who won the
N. S. Wales 100yds. while still
at school; Boy Charlton, and
many more.
Tn tennis there were Norman
Gregg and G. P. Barbour.
In cricket, the list includes
Test-players F. R. Spofforth,
S. P. Jones, P. C. Charlton,
Frank Iredale, “Tibby” Cotter
and Harry Donnan (who died
but lately, aged more than 90),
H. L, Hendry and J. W. Bourke.
In athletics, E. W. Carr and
W. T. McPherson, Australian
Olympic representatives.
In football the field is so wide
that it is impossible to cover it
justly, for it is the school’s
characteristic game; at its
zenith it provided Rugby Union
captains for N. S. Wales and
Australian teams for over a
decade at a time: “Pup” Ray-
mond, Slip Carr, “Wakka”
Walker, Norman Smith,
“Johnny” Wallace, “Huck”
Finlay, Alex Ross —a noble
procession.
The “great”. Waratahs who
toured England in 1927 were
led by “Johnny” Wallace and
Charlie Fox, as captain and vice-
captain, and included five more
who had worn the Sydney
S.G.S. colors, M. R. Blair,
Finlay, Mann, Ross and G. P.
Storey. Next year, six of the
nine Sydney city clubs were
captained by Sydneians, to
whom were added in the suc-
ceeding years “Wally” Ives and
Len Palfreyman, Jack Cook,
“Cliff” Campbell and some more.
And' the standard is equalled
by the school’s representation in
rowing—L. C. - Robson, now
headmaster of Shore, a Rhodes
Scholar, notable in his later
years as a coach; Joe Gould,
who rowed in the Olympic crew
of 1936, selector and coach
of the 1952 Australian Helsinki
crew; Vic Middleton, Mervyn
Finlay and Jim McLeod, who
has been- president of Oxford
University Boat Club.
These are the modern suc-
cessors to Roger Fitzhardinge,
who had rowed stroke of the
Australian boat at Stockholm
Games before World War I, and
H. K. Ward, Rhodes Scholar,
who was in the same boat and
was latterly Professor of
Bacteriology at Sydney Uni-
versity.
On the day this is published
Sydney Grammar School’s uni-
formed companies march to their
celebration in the Town Hall to
face the Governor-General; and
the city and the country through
which its “old boys” are spread
in force have something
to be proud of. Their old
school reaches its roots deeper
with complete continuity into
Australian scholastic history
than any other institution of its
kind on the continent.
Its history is a thrilling one
to have a share in.
The old school-room whose
walls have echoed to the birth-
throes of history right back to a
time when the free population
of the Australian continent was
under 20,000 and Sydney was a
village of 10,000 people is
dignified today by its honor-
boards bearing long lists of those
who have been leaders among
the builders of the greatness of
the City and the Commonwealth,
including the record of more
than 2000 who served and 462
who died in two wars.


The nasal bot fly
usually attacks sheep
in summer and
autumn during the
heat of the day. To
guard against attacks
graziers are advised
to provide plenty of
shade and shelter in
the paddocks. To
guard lambs against
set-back and infection
by disease germs
when marking and
tailing it is good
practice to us£ the
Elastrator Rubber
Ring method rather
than the knife.
PROOF
/
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails .
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm
* •« ... _ ,4V
m
* r
v H /
I* f : vT-. * Saa >*
ll
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SELF-HELP IN SUGAR
XT is as far from Brisbane
A northwards to the limits of
Queensland cane-farms as it is
from Brisbane to Melbourne.
Get a map out and measure the
airline distances, but don’t
forget to add the 80 miles or so
from the Cairns airport to the
most northerly Mossman farm ,
a farm, incidentally, which
collected one of the few Japanese
bombs dropped in Queensland.
Sugarcane is not continuous
over the whole 1000 miles or so,
for the drier areas around
Gladstone,**’ Rockhampton,
Bowen and Townsville, suitable
for cattle, are not so favorable
for the moisture-demanding
cane.
There’s not much rain,.either,
'on the Burdekin alluvials', some
50 miles south of Townsville,
and what does fall comes all
at once. But spears tap the
water in underground beds, and
the electric-pumps, humming
night and day, lift daily a total
more than sufficient to supply
the whole of Sydney.
£5O-miHion Crop
By any standards the Queens-
land cane-sugar industry, the
fourth in the world, is a major
one. The annual value of the
sugar produced Is over £5O
million, an average mill is
exceeded as an industrial unit
practically only by steelworks
(it crushes over 2500 tons of cane
per day and in doing so circu-
lates 5 million gallons of water), _
length of the 2ft.-gauge tramways
used for bringing the cane to the
mills is over 2000 miles, about
two-thirds the length of the
Victorian Railways, and about
30,000 tramway-trucks as well
as numerous road-trucks are
required to move the 8,500,000
tons of cane from farms to mills.
The output of sugar has to
be tailored to the markets avail-
able. Restrictions on production
start right on the farm, where,
as well as having an allotted
tonnage, the farmer is allowed
to cultivate only a definite and
fixed area. Even if he has excess
ground he can use only that
which is “assigned.”
There are over 8000 farmers
producing cane for sugar (others
have it for cows) in the State
at present. Many of these are
on farms which have been
cultivated for more than 60
years, but many are post-war
pioneers who have taken up
land and cleared and cultivated
it in the recent expansion of
the industry.
Tradition of Independence
But whether they are new
men or old-established farmers,
they still preserve the traditional
independence of the industry to
a marked degree. Conferences
of growers’ and millers’ organisa-
tions are lively shows, with
nobody afraid to speak his mind.
The independence goes back
to the early days, when growers
and millers preferred to help
themselves rather than sit back
to await possible aid from the
distant Government.
They early realised the diffi-
culties—“obstacles to successful
cane-cultivation,” as one report
put it—and that the only way
to overcome them was by
employing experts. They brought
pressure to bear on the Govern-
ment, and the then Under-
secretary for Agriculture, after
due inquiries, established a State
Nursery at Mackay and another
at Kamerunga, near Cairns.
These were started within five
or six years of the first sugar
experiment-stations in the world,
which were set up simultaneously
in Louisiana and Java in 1895.
The nurseries functioned as
receiving and distributing depots
for canes collected by depart-
mental officers in 1892 and 1896,
but" the growers were not satis-
fied. A serious outbreak of the
cane-disease known as gumming
(within tho last decade eradi-
cated from Queensland crops) in
the Bundaberg area in 1895,
when many farmers were brought
close to ruin, strengthened the
agitation.
Bundaberg Took Lead
The Bundaberg Planters and
Farmers’ Association took the
lead in pressing the Government
to arrange for Dr. Walter Max-
well, Director of the Sugar
Experiment Station in Hawaii,
to make a report on the
industry. He arrived towards the
end of 1899, and in the follow-
ing year accepted the position of
Director of Sugar Experiment
Stations in Queensland, at the
then unheard-of salary of £3OOO
a year.
“The best man at any cost”
was the slogan, and the growers
and millers were levied one
penny a ton of cane crushed to
provide funds, along with a
State Government contribution,
for the establishment and
maintenance of sugar
experiment-stations.
Headquarters with a labora-
tory were established at Bunda-
berg, and the expanded Mackay
station was used for field-work.
In all districts plots were estab-
lished on cane-farms for the
testing of new varieties, and for
fertiliser and other trials.
Thus the foundations were laid
for the present Bureau of Sugar
Experiment Stations, recog-
nised throughout the sugar-
world as one of the leading
centres of research in this crop.
The basic pattern of producer-
contribut ion,, laboratory-
headquarters, district experiment-
stations and farmers’ plots exists
today, although expansion
through the years has brought an
“Keep straight on, then turn left at the third mirage."
extension-service aiming to reach
every farmer, as well as regular
publications and all the con-
comitants of a first-class
organisation, moulded to serve
efficiently every aspect of the
industry.
Who Pays?
Self-help through levies *from
every farmer and every miller
has been the keystone. The
producers pay for the bureau,
and it exists to serve them with
the minimum of Government
interference.
The Government comes on the
scene, practically only for the
necessary legislative backing for
the enforcement of disease-
control and for the collection
of moneys—functions difficult
for' any purely private organisa-
tion to perform.
The bureau was an in-
dependent body from 1900 to
1909, when it became part of
the Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock, and it
remained there until, after years
of agitation, it became separate
again in 1950. It is now
managed by a board, with the
Minister of Agriculture as
chairman.
The Government contribu-
tion is only 5 per cent. • of the
annual receipts of £150,000, and
bureau employees are not
members of the public service.
The levy is at present 3d. a ton
of cane, shared equally by
grower and miller, and each
group of producers has a member
on the four-man board.
Distribution
Headquarters are in Brisbane,
where soil- and pathology-labs,
are maintained. A new air-
conditioned building is being
planned on a site already
acquired. Also in Brisbane,
some 11 miles from the G.P.0.,
is the 58-acre Pathology Farm
at Warrigal Road, Eight-Mile
Plains (B. 6/ 2 / ’57). There, in
isolation from commercial cane-
fields, the pathologists have a
happy time with a collection of
diseases, some of which now
exist in Queensland only on the
Farm.
The four district experiment-
stations are well-known features
of the canescape. There is one
of the lovely red soil of the
Woongarra, just outside Bunda-
&erg, one on typical clay-
bottomed land at Mackay,
another in the irrigated Burdekin
area, and the largest of the four
is at Meringa, near Gordonvale
and some 12 miles south of
Cairns. The raising of seedlings
from cane-seed sent from
Meringa (where cane flowers
well), the selection of seedlings
and cultural trials are common
to all stations.
Meringa is the centre of the
cane-breeding work, on which a
scientific staff of four is engaged,
and it also has two entomologists,
a pathologist, and an.
agronomist, in addition to the
station officers and field-advisers.
Seedling sub-stations in the very
wet (over 120 in.) areas of
Babinda and Innisfail are super-
vised from Meringa. In districts
such as Nambour (S.Q.) and
Ingham, Tully and Innisfail in
the North not served by stations,
advisory-officers are located.
Farm Plots
The system of plots on farms
ensures that research-findings
are tried on a field-scale with the
minimum of delay. An extensive
series of fertiliser-trials on
farms over the years provides
the basis for the fertiliser-
recommendations made from
lab. soil-analyses.
Research discoveries are
published in technical communi-
cations with a world-wide
mailing-list, but everything of
direct practical importance goes
into the well-illustrated Cane
Growers’ Quarterly Bulletin,
which every grower receives for
nothing. The “Quarterly” is
regarded as a model of its type.
The bureau is not concerned
solely with the agricultural
aspects of the industry. It
maintains mill-technologists at
Brisbane, Bundaberg and
Meringa, and, in addition,
finances a post-graduate course
in mill-technology at the Queens-
land University. Incidentally, the
industry also, quite voluntarily,
finances another milling-
research organisation, Sugar
Research, Ltd., with its splendid,
modern laboratories and offices
at Mackay. It is under Dr. H. W.
Kerr, who was director of the
bureau 1933-1943, and employs
a number of university
graduates.
Bureau Personalities
Norman J. King, who has
directed the bureau since 1948,
knows all the agricultural
answer?. He rose from the
ranks of station officers-in-
charge, he has been vice-
chairman of the International
Society of Sugar Cane Tech-
nologists and an Australian
delegate to three international
congresses, as well as a member
of the royal commission which
laid 4own the basis for the
recent expansion in Australian
sugar-production. His prose
style is easy and fluent and he
personally edits the “Quarterly.”
L. G. Vallance, as Assistant-
Director, is in charge of soils and
agriculture. The Assistant to the
Director, R. W. Mungomery,
after many years at Bundaberg
and Meringa on entomological
problems, is still interested in
cane-pests, although nowadays
chiefly occupied with the
administration of the district
cane-pest and disease-control
boards.
C. G. Hughes, whom Dubois
(B. 6/2/’57) showed sitting on
his hands probably to keep
them still —has charge of the
pathology, ably assisted by
another senior man, D. R. L.
Steindl, who also originally
came from Sydney University.
At Meringa, J. H. Buzacott and
J. C. SkinnBr look after the plant-
breeding, while G. Wilson has
charge of the insect work.
Also at Meringa is Station
O.C. Gilbert Bates, born and
bred in North Queensland, and
as well known in the back-
country and the Gulf as he is in
Cairns, Bureau staff on research,
technical and extension work
number 46, and all seniors have
been overseas for study.
Achievements
The bureau’s achievements
are reflected in the high regard
in which it is held by the
industry, which foots the bill.
Another measure is in the
number of visitors who come
from all parts of the sugar-world
to see at first-hand the work
done in Queensland.
In the breeding of new cane-
varieties alone the bureau has
returned its cost over and over
again. The variety Q. 50, now
easily the most important cane
in the State, is a bureau product;
it is certain that without it the
Mackay district, where it was
selected, could not have


KEROSENE
TILLEY
. . Regd-
PRESSURE
\
]amps
burn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON l| PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
Men in Wool
&
m
B
•
r-
hjA> 7/ . '•
fr>-
i
1
z'
DAL. X!
stockmen on tin
. . . successors to the colourful pack-horsed boundary riders in the sprawling
saltbush and spinifex centre of Australia ... On a 2,000,000-acre station
abutting the Nullabor Plain, their buzzing hornets have spelt finis to arduous
mustering on the “sheep-to-40-acres” country, radiating 80 miles from the
station behind 400 miles of vermin-proof fencing needing constant patrol to
keep in order . , . Here a fleet of scooters, with Kelpies Border Collies
trained to ride their footboards, have brought automation to the remote
interior..
Likewise Dalgety’s dependable wool and stock-selling service, its merchan-
dising facilities, and its friendly advice and help to graziers, have brought the
most efficient and experienced service to the pastoral industry all over Australia.
MMalgetys
Always Dependable
15 BENT ST., SYDNEY, AND ALL STATES
expanded to its present 350,000
tons of sugar. The control of
the northern cane-grub by the
use of benzene-hexachloride has
trebled the average yield in
grubby areas, and turned many
marginal lands into profitable
farms.
The control of diseases,
particularly of ratoon-stunting
disease, which was discovered
and controlled first in Queens-
land, has meant a year-to-year
stability not found in many other
crops. There is no equivalent
in the local cane-crops these
days, for instance, of a bad
rust-year in wheat.
Beroo.
Skeleton-weed
“Massey”: To prevent skele-
ton-weed flowering in stubble,
spray small patches of it with
21b. of 2, 4-D to the acre.
Later, sheep it heavily.
Odd plants of skeleton-weed
(and anything which grows with
them) can be killed with sodium-
borate (101b. per 100 sq.-ft) or
a 3:1 mixture of s.odium-b orate
and sodium-chlorate (61b. per
100 sq.-ft.) Such areas are
sterile for several months after
spraying.
Oofs in Queensland
“Myall”: Interesting to see
“Warrion’s” par. (B. 30/l/’57)
on the seeding of Algerian oats
in Tasmania, and to know that
this grand old variety is still in
favor in the south.
More than 50 years ago,
Algerian, was the most popular
variety in Queensland, and it still
holds that position ; especially on
the Darling Downs, where
thousands of acres are sown to
this variety.
It is usually seeded in
February and March, so that
it will have a long growing-
season, although many of
the older growers will sow
it until the end of June. No
other variety introduced so far
has proved better for long-term
grazing; its only drawback is
susceptibility to rust during long
periods of warm, showery
weather.
But Algerian now has a serious
competitor in the new variety
Bovar, which is much quicker-
maturing, will stand as much
feeding-off, and is rust-resistant.
The forage is very sweet, and
is much relished by all classes of
stock.
The two next in popularity,
Belar and Victorian Richland,
are sown a little later, from
*March to June. They are both
of rapid growth, and give a big
bulk of feed. The latter is very
rust-resistant.
Other favored varieties are
Fulgrum, New England Sidling,
Lampton, Clinton, Klein and
Waterhaus. Acacia and
Oriental are recent introductions
that have given promising
results in certain localities and
may become very popular within
a season or two.
However, the old Algerian
still takes a lot of beating as an
all-rounder, and will remain
popular here in Queensland for
many years to come.
Rye Staggers
“Ripon”: One of the traps of
an autumn break in the weather
is the chance of animals develop-
ing staggers in a rye-dominant
pasture, when the young shoots
appear after rain—particularly if
t h e summ er has been dry or
long.
Although the symptoms can
be rather frightening, recovery is
usually spontaneous, and deaths
are unusual except by accident,
S u C h as an affected animal falling
into a waterhole and drowning,
Symptoms are often not
evident until the flock is driven,
Affected sheep have a character-
istic stiff, bounding action, with
front- and hind-feet moving
together.
After several bounds the
animal falls and may have
spasmodic twitch-
ing its muscles and rolling its
eyeballs until it becomes relaxed
and eventually recovers. Some
owners tie the legs of animals
which fall while being, driven,
and pick them up in a truck
later.
It is best to raddle affected
animals, and not to drencih them
or dip them until they have had
two or three weeks to recover.
The danger usually passes from
a paddock in that time, too. In
the meantime, it is wise to let
the animals find their own way
between points, rather than drive
then!, when rye-grass is in the
dangerous stage.
Copper-molybdenum
“Centralia”: Recent findings
have stressed the fine balance of
the two minor elements —copper
and molybdenum —in the sheep’s
body. In the first place, more
than the recommended amount
of molybdenum on a pasture
not only corrects molybdenum-
deficiency, but also causes
copper-deficiency, by immobilis-
ing some of the copper in the
diet.
Cases of this have been found
in the last two years, on
properties where overzealous
owners have applied too much
molybdenum.
On the other hand, there is a
big chance that molybdenum
can be used to good advantage
in preventing the storage of too
much copper in the liver, which
causes “yellows” (toxaemic
jaundice). C.5.1.R.0. is investi-
gating this point.
New Brigalow Country
“A.”: There’s over 20-million
acres of brigalow-cotlntry in
Queensland. Up to three years
ago it. was cheap country,
poorly stocked.
Landowners found the axe a
slow way to clear the land, and
expert scrub-fallers were few
and far between. It cost too
much to fall the timber, even if
you could get men to do the
job.
Now, thanks to modern
machinery, this belt of country
is being cleared, and the carry-
ing-capacity is being increased
up to fourfold.
Landowners are using ’dozers,
rollers, rippers and chains to
knock the scrub down and pre-
pare it for the fire-stick.
Most of the water in this area
is subterranean, and some of the
streams are deep below the
ground. Farmers are excavating
earth-tanks and dams rather
than worrying about boring for
water. The heavy machinery
already in the area is a big help,
and brigalow is excellent hold-
ing country.
There are several different
opinions about handling the
scrub once it’s down. Some like
to leave it to dry out well and
get a good burn. Apart from
providing a solid ash-bed for
the grass-seed, it’s believed that
a heavy fire helps to keep down
the suckers.
Others like to burn as soon as
the trees are down, “Get the
grass-seed in and up as soon as
you can.”
Hormone-sprays and rolling
help’ s to control suckers, so it’s
d matter of opinion which is
best.
Experience in the Callide
Valley in the early ’twenties
proved that a heavy fire and a
clean bum helped to keep
suckers down, and at the same
time gave a solid bed of ash for
the seed. But those were the days
when there were no rollers or
’dozers, and suckers were a real
headache. .
The basic grass in any pasture-
mixture in brigalow country is
Rhodes. It’s in its element here,
and does a still better job when
mixed with panic, lucerne, and
even clovers.
A lot of the seed has been
sown from the air, and germina-
tion has been excellent. Aerial-
sowing is more mobile and you
can pick selected areas for
certain grasses.
For example, some prefer to
plant the more expensive panic
on the upper slopes of gullies,
leaving the rain to spread later
seedings down the slopes.
Aerial-sowing costs roughly
ss. an acre, with seed on top of
that. It’s possible to sow about
100 acres an hour. Less seed is
used this way than any other.
Cattle and sheep are taking
over this new belt of country.
Rolling fields of grass have
taken the place of the silvery
brigalow. Many are turning to
grain, and some tip that the
brigalow-belt will . outdo the
Darling Downs in grain-
production.
"Foreigners" Score
“Nelson”: Although South
Australia’s wheat-championship
was won by a locally bred
variety, Dirk 48, grown by
A. D. W. Lake, of Salter’s
Springs (who also annexed the
State quality-wheat champion-
ship with the same crop),
several outstanding performances
were recorded by varieties from
other States.
For instance, the “best wheat-
grower” championship was won
by O. E. and N. C. Rosenweig,
of Mannum, with the N.S.W.
variety Gabo. The crop was
estimated to yield just over four
bushels an acre for every inch
of useful rain received during
the growing-season.
Another “foreigner” to score
was the Victorian wheat In-
signia, which gave the record
yield for a Murray-Mallee crop,
of 60 bushels an acre. This was
more than four bags an acre
better than the Victorian Mallee
record held by Allen Barbary, of
Woomelang—also with Insignia.
The South Australian record-
breaker was grown b? J. A.
Schiller on A. R. T. Bennett s
farm at Pinnaroo.
Although South Australian
varieties such as Javelin,
Sabre and Dirk 48 have done
well in Victorian plots, and
have even been sown by several
easterners, they have never been
good enough to oust local
varieties across the border.
Insignia 49, whose rust-
was developed in
South Australia, could easily
become very popular in Victoria.
To complete the scoop by
“foreigners” in S.A., R- C. Cross,
of Kadina, had a crop of Orient
oats last year which, made 89
bushels to the acre, claimed to
be a State record. Orient is' a
Victorian variety.
All the same, South Australian
varieties did well in other wheat-
competitions in their own State,
and one of them, Sabre, was
runner-up for the Victorian
Mallee championship.
Farm Hints
“Tonto”: There’d be fewer
accidents in dairies if engine-
crankshafts and belt-drives had
simple wire-mesh guards.
They’re not hard to fix. Clothing
caught in a swiftly-rotating
crankshaft or belt can cause seri-
ous injuries. Similarly, many
engine-rooms in dairies have no
protection. A barrier across the
entrance would keep children
away from a danger-spot.
“Sundowner”: Losses from
weevils may be reduced to a
minimum by observing the
following points when storing
grain: Clear all old grain in
headers, silos and sheds; put
only dry grain into silos and
stacks; make sure sheds and
silos are weatherproof.
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
Bulletin” Bradford Wool
Type Card. This Card has
many uses ■— as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered —in particular when
snap classification hgs to be
made in the yards or shed, or
in the paddock, with a type,
perhaps, outside the main run
of your experience. There’s a
big difference between know-
ing and guessing. A compari-
son study, using the Bradford
Wool Type Card, eliminates
the possibility of error. Your
name and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to “The
Bulletin” will send one on its
way.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in the British Colony of Bony Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
A “must” for all
housewives —if you want
to keep them up to the
mark —are the kitchen-
craft, mothercraft, gar-
dening , and “help”
features in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
at the rough sketch he had
scrawled on the blotting-paper
before him, and grinned across
the narrow table.
“You’ll find it a typical, tidal
mangrove-stream big sandbar
here —I put the schooner up
there once and we waited
damned near all day to get off —
anyhow, it’s a bit depression-
looking, perhaps, particularly if
it’s late afternoon and it’s rain-
ing. But then she opens up a
bit at the plantation. You’ll
think” he frowned and
squirmed—“that you’re goin’
up the great bloody Lim-po-po.”
He drawled the word and the
other laughed.
“Ramsden you know
Ramsden —he’s down there now
. . , he’s coming in. He’ll come
in on your boat so it’ll be a
quick handover. Now watch
this area out here; plenty nuts
to be got here but we’re just
getting it cleaned up a bit
now ...”
Blank-eyed in the corner of
the tiny room sat Raka, reserved,
withdrawn, obliviously sorting,
with small busy sausage-fingers,
large brown seeds into envelopes
from a frayed sack.
In her office Margaret had
seemed abstracted, mistily
distant, not even surprised. When
she joined him in the cool hotel-
lounge she was hatless and
smiling, and immediately he
sensed her skirt flowing beside
him, excitingly. She had walked
in quickly; and as she touched
his shoulder, briefly, the two
men across the cane-table rose.
When they were alone, she
sipped at her drink, eyeing him
over the rim of the glass, happily.
It was as if she could sense his
sudden desire and she was more
than ever feminine, mildly flirta-
tious even. She laughed easily
as he talked, she was at once
intimate and withdrawn, beyond
reach.
Her hands were lovely. He
loved her hands, remembered
them of all most vividly.
■ Self-assured and charming.
“Darling, if you will insist on
burying yourself, like Doctor
Livingstone, or like little Stanley.
My little Stanley-boy. My
husband, my little Stanley-boy
husband . . .”
There was a -sudden stab of
jealousy at her playfulness and
he told her he was going away
down the coast to a new planta-
tion, sailing from the Town
wharf in about an hour, and then
he could see that his rudeness
had upset her a little; and he
was embarrassed with this wife
who hated the backwaters where
he worked, this wealthy wife
whose setting was not this
country. ~.
The scow smelt of copra-oil
and fuel and the-eternal body-
reek of natives. His young
servant had made his stretcher
up on the bridge-deck where he
would be screened by the canvas
spray-shield. He kicked his
boots off and lay on the narrow
bed looking up at the milky
evening sky and thought of
Margaret, and wondered if that
would ever come to anything
again.
TV/T OONLIGHT dapples
the veranda-boards, loose
and sprung and irregular, and
the patriarchal figure in frayed
whites before him who talks and
talks and talks, on and on, from
the sagging canvas deck-chair.
On and on, events of long ago
when the mission had thrived,
of men dead or gone away, of
race-meetings with horses from
now-abandoned plantations, of
visits from an Administrator of
twenty-five years ago.
There is the odd disembodied
feeling of having stepped into
the past, that this old, old man
with his grey, stooped shadow
of a wife, this rambling, tumbled-
down residence, unrepaired out-
buildings and overgrown garden,
that this desolation and stagnant
age are quite unreal.
. . and since the flying-boats
have been on the coast, of course
we see nobody. Before the war
boats had to put in here and
everyone used to come up;
sometimes there would be a
dozen people, coming and
going . .
Inside, the missionary’s wife
to a servant, a feeble,
slightly-querulous note over the
hissing of the oil-lamp. The
couple have stayed on and on,
have grown old here, as mission-
finances have lessened and
lessened, and other stations have
closed down, one by one. In
the attitude of the copper-
skinned youngsters who beat
back the trailing pack of
snarling dogs as he had walked
up from the beach and greeted
the old people had been a subtle
note of tolerance.
The men walk in the garden-
that-was, the patriarch pauses by
an ancient well of worn stone.
“You don’t know these
people? Of course, they don’t
often go away, they have their
work here. An interesting study,
the Kapelli native, quite unlike
most. I say, care for a drink?
My wife doesn’t like it, you
know, hates it in fact, but I
sometimes have a little some-
thing. There’s a drop of rum
here” —he gropes a wasted arm
into the recesses of the well,
pulls a light line up, hand over
hand. “The Oriental cast-of-
features is quite striking, as you
say. Their language, too, you
know, is basically Malay. I knew
Malay years ago and we long
since made a Kapelli vocabu-
lary. Ah, here we are. Water
in that bucket, two coconut-
shells too. Emmy would not
approve of this at all, but surely
it- is a virtue to keep them in
ignorance of the little things
that upset them, eh?”
As he rambled on they drink,
one tot each, from coconut-shells,
the rum which had dangled
hidden on the end of twenty-
feet of line in the old well.
The old missionary would
never leave here, would die here
in time, the ultimate decay.
npHE district commissioner is
1 beefy, competent, as he
moves among the group at the
wharfhead; sharp, bushy eyes
on each European in turn as the
conversation flows about him.
“. . . got eighteen boys, had
to walk for them though. Not
much offering up in the -river
villages just now.” The recruiter,
in khaki shorts and shirt, nods
to the many whose business it is
to know everything happening
in his District and as much as
possible about neighboring ones.
“I’ll be up at the office with
them in the morning.”
“Signing-on for Bau-Bau?”
“Yes.” Another nod, the
recruiter turns away.
“You taking over from
Ramsden?”
“Yes, be down there day after
tomorrow. He’s going in.”
“Heard that, been expecting
you through. Know the place:?”
“No.”
“Don’t get down there so
much these days myself, not as
much as I’d like. Up there last
in ’fifty-two. Good plantation.
Bit rough though. I patrolled up
at the back of there and came
down into the marine villages at
the delta. A.D.O. then.”
Cropped heads gaunt and
shameful, dark grey broad-
arrows stamped over file lighter,
dirtier grey of flannel loincloths,
the native prisoners surge about
the knot of white' men, man-
handling cargo from the scow’s
hold, trundling it along the two-
hundred-yards of rickety jetty
on the trolleys which roll on
narrow rails to the iron shed
ashore.
A raw, fresh-faced patrol-
officer directs them, stumbling
over unaccustomed native words,
policeboys with him repeating
him fluently.
Among the country - wise
planters, the District Commis-
sioner and recruiter, the two
roadmakers, Town men trans-
planted to drive lumbering
machines on district roads, are
awkward and out-of-place also.
Presence of waiting Europeans
hastens the unloading. In an
hour the Laramea jetty falls
astern..
'TWO hours out from Laramea
the quarter-mile trolling-
line which has trailed since
leaving Town picks up its first
strike.
The line jumps and swings in
a wide arc; excited, Ali screams
to engine-boys down an oil-
spattered companionway; the
craft slows as chattering natives
haul in. Gleaming and lovely,
the fish comes slowly in, is hefted
“Hey! You're supposed to be herbivorous."
aboard, a fat four-fopt, thrash-
ing and flopping on the soiled
deck timbers.
For three hours they circle,
back and forwards through the
school, stopping only to land
fish from the long line baited
now by Ali himself, with white
reeds whipped firmly around the
shank of the hook.
The Australian smokes,
enjoying the activity, admiring
the catches, wondering idly how
much this costs the scow’s owners
in their 5 bright new glass-and-
steel Town office.
In brilliant sunlight of late
afternoon they heave-to as a
low, fast launch speeds out to
them'from the coastline, distant
under green mountainsides.
Burnt like a biscuit, bouncing
with energy, exuberant, jolly, the
little man at the wheel of the
launch waves and shouts.
“Hey, Ali! Mail-oh, eh! ”
Years since, the trader had
settled at Tia’ia, with a canoe-
,load of trade goods and years
of futile drifting behind him;
he had acquired a large
bungalow, several small planta-
tions, the respect of native elders
for a hundred-and-fifty miles
around, the fastest launch on the
coast, the confidence of the
bankers and businesses in Town,
and a now-repulsive but intensely
loyal native “wife,” whose
industry and shrewd knowledge
had contributed more than a
little to his success. Giving-and-
taking, absorbing and distribut-
ing, he built his own environ-
ment. ; any other now would be
unthinkable.
Wives of neighboring settlers
are uncomfortable in his
presence, disconcerted by his
breezy acceptance of them.
The trader waves to the
lolling Australian and to Ali as
the canvas mail-bag swings
across to him on the heaving-
line.
irE sits with the four men and
two women in the cool semi-
darkness of the big downstairs
room.
. . when I was younger,
perhaps it was different for me.
Now, for eight hours I work,
that is enough, that is eight hours
for my medicine. For the rest,
I with my wife have our books,
our music, our friends, the wire-
less, the comfort, cooking . . .
These natives . . The broken
English of the District Medical
Officer, the Italian from the
native hospital.
The women talk quietly
together, but he sees that his
host’s wife is edgy, eyes wide as
she sits forward on the caue
chair. Her husband, the coco-
plantation manager, becomes
slightly drunk, his eyes as he
listens to the thin Co-operative
officer fiat, uncomprehending.
"... rocker-arms loose an’
th’ two top. tappets rattlin’ like
billy-oh, terrible it was, and I’d
thought at first it was piston-slap,
you know, she’s an old engine
when all’s said an’ done an’
she needs new rings, really
reboring. . .”
. . so this boy comes down
to me complaining of terrible
pain in his belly”—he listens
politely to the doctor, watching
the others dully through gentle
cross-currents of conversation —
“says his enemies have put
stones in there. So X give him
a great big dose of castor-oil for
the stones; he was constipated,
you know; and tell him this is
very powerful Government
medicine. .
“. ... so we get the gauge on
her and she reads fifty-five on
number-one cylinder, down
nearly fifteen on number
two” ——
“Trouble with you, Lemmon,
all you talk about is engines.”
“Ted! ” Reed’s wife squeaks
his host’s name and there is
silence, the thin Co-operative
officer’s mouth hanging open
slightly, stupidly.
“’S true. Engines, engines,
engines, all he ever talks about.
Every time it’s engines, engines.”
“Ted, you’re damn’ rude.
Don’t be rude.”
The women rise, fussing with
glasses, covering the awkward-
ness. Reed is a prime mover
in local village politics. He
draws on near-by villages for
casual day-labor to work his
coco, winning his way with tact
and subtlety among village-
' councillors and elders. This
meddling Co-operative officer,
fresh from Southern training-
classes, is a threat to his arrange-
ments.
Talk flows on; the thin man
buries his nose in a glass.
“Pre-war they had to plant
coconuts in their villages, or be
taxed. Silliest thing they ever
did, taking the head-tax off. . .
That’s where they’re getting their
copra from now, because their
fathers were forced to plant
nuts. But is there any native
planting these days? Like hell!”
Reed rises, comes across.
“Ramsden’s going in, eh?"
“Far as I know.”
“Be the end of him in this
corner.” Satisfaction ; he does
not like Ramsden. “He’s a nit-
wit.”
“Sick? I don’t know anything
about this, Ted. I reckoned he
must be sick. I came through
Town in a few hours. Thought
he was pretty-well-dug-in at
Giraka.”
The scow lies for the night at
Reed’s wharf, three miles away
down the dirt road,
“It's a good property, good
place to live. Ramsden’s silly.
You know Ramsden—bull-
headed, temper like a bull-ant.
Shouldn’t be working labor.”
Reed’s voice is thick. He belches
quietly. “Hit a boy, hit a boy
once too often. Lad jumped into
a canoe and paddled down to
the A.D.O. and complained. He
had it coming; you can’t expect
’em to like being hit, least of
all nowadays. A.D.O. got up
there an’ held a court on Rams-
den’s veranda, quick-smart.
“Ramsden tried to bluff ’em;
they’d been drinking his beer
for a couple of hours. But he’s
got away with it too often ; they
were after him. Fined him a
fiver, fined the company fifty
quid. Imagine how the Chief’d
like that —complaints to him
from the Government in Town,
hell to pay if Sydney office
heard of it. The Chief’d have
some bother ... So Ramsden’s
going in, and I reckon he’ll be
sacked soon’s he gets there.
Good thing too,” he added
reflectively ; “we don’t want that
sort of silly bastard about.”
“Things ’re going to be nice
down there”
“You’ll find a very funny
labor-line.” Reed took his
empty glass, cradled it in a large
hand with his own. “They’ve
been stood-over till they’re sick
of it an’ now they’ve had a
victory. You watch ’em, son.”
A NCHORED at the river-
mouth, the Giraka launch
awaits him. The engine fails to
start, and the slight Motu-
speaking launch-bby is helpless;
he sends the native to help his
servant stow the gear, conscious
of the watchful brown eyes as he
takes up the rusty spanner,
tightens the loose bolts under
the magneto.
He winds the starting-handle
once, testing ignition. Then
he disconnects the petrol-line
and runs the fluid through,
spilling a little into the bilge.
The spark-plug isl frozen into
the cylinder-head with rust, but
he taps it with the spanner,
strains at it, taps again, and it
begins to wind out. The
electrodes are filthy with carbon
and congealed oil. The Aus-
tralian scratches them clean with
the point of his knife, replaces
the plug, spins the motor and
it fires.
The two native boys smile,
relieved.
A half-mile up the mangrove-
shrouded river he gestures the
strange boy to the wheel,
lounges forward, staring up-
stream.
He wonders what to do about
Margaret, drifts off into blurred
memories of their time together.
The river closes in, branches
at times touching overhead;
there is mangrove-smell, tarry
and acrid.
“Up the great bloody
Limpopo,” he says aloud, and
laughs. “Hope we’ve got a
paddle.”
“Darka - taubada?” The
strange boy is quick, obsequious,
uncertain.
“Las,” he replies. Nothing.
The diligence of new servants.
“Hereva las, Oi-urn gaukrai
naria.” Be quiet. Watch your
steering.


THE BIBLE AS HISTORY
by
Dr. WERNER KELLER
Translated by Dr. William Neil
432 Pages. 132 Illustrations and Maps
ARCHAEOLOGY CONFIRMS THE BOOK OF BOOKS
Retail Price in Australia 37/3 (postage 1/7extra)
Obtainable from all Booksellers
HOOPER & STOUGHTON LTD.
GOOD READING - - -
THE NUN’S STORY
By Kathryn Hulme, “Has the characteris-
ation of a good novel ... it tells the
tremendous, unsuspected battles of the soul
that are fought behind cloister walls.”
(Time.)
18/9 (post 2/4)
CARTOON TREASURY
A collection of
cartoons.
the world J s funniest
31/- (post 2/4)
A HISTORY OF THE
ENGLISH-SPEAKING PEOPLES
Voi lI—THE NEW WORLD
By Winston S. Churchill.
38/6 (post 1/6)
THE VERMEER FORGERIES
By Jan Baesjou. The fascinating story of
Hans van Meegeren’s forgeries, told in the
form of a novel. 18/9 (post lOd.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
89-95 Castlereagh St., SYDNEY 66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.!
The Book That Everybody Is Talking About
THE TURN OF THE TIDE
Arthur Bryant
The sensational war diaries of Lord Alanbrooke that reveal the inside story of
the conduct of the war will be available soon. COMPLETE AND
UNABRIDGED from all booksellers
Over 75,000 sold already—order your copy now
COLLINS PUBLISHERS
Freelances!
WHAT TO WRITE, WHERE TO SELL
The “WRITERS’ MARKETING GUIDE” (1956-57 edition) lists current
details of Australian, N.Z. and. overseas markets for pars, articles, stories,
radio scripts, etc.
A MUST for every freelance. Price 12/6 at leading booksellers,
or direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS* PROFESSIONAL SERVICE,
Box 28, Collins Street P. 0., Melbourne.
to the vertical cliff of a gorge, and
one only hoped that the fittings were
strong enough to take the weight.
Sheer rock, black and dry, fell 200 ft.
below the shelf to a quiet green
stream, and rose as many thousands
above to a pale strip of gloaming.
The driver switched on his head-
lamps, which, as he had feared, were
weak with age. But he discovered
that the harder he drove the engine
the brighter they burned.... “Camels
often fall over the edge,” said one
of the men on the bench beside
me... .For some of the passengers
who had joined the bus at Moghul-
kot and were accommodated on the
roof, the perils of the journey were
all too real, and they jumped off to
follow behind on f00t....
It is small wonder that the Moslem
passengers always remembered, at
roadside stops, to get off and say their
prayers. So the journey goes, dinner
at the officers’ mess at Fort Sandeman,
the young Pakistani officers scorning
the knives and forks and eating with
their fingers, the bazaar at Quetta, the
succulent chicken at the inn at Zahidan,
across the Persian border, the Turkish
bath at Kirman, the Madresseh-i-
Chahar Bagh at Isfahan. This beauti-
ful mosque had.*just been restored, its
designs picked-out with paint; and the
resulting color-photograph reproduced
in this book is of almost unbelievable
beauty.
And so to Persepolis, out of the
desert, “a stone terrace with pillars on
it, like a giant’s chessboard jutting
from the hillside at the edge of the
plain,” the winter palace of Darius and
Xerxes, where he climbed up ancient
staircases, admired the bas-reliefs and
the inscriptions, and meditated on the
fall of grandeur “sitting in a teashop
eating eggs and sour milk and cursing
the flies.”
After a delay caused by the Persian
authorities, who hadn’t stopped him
getting in but were reluctant to let him
out, and conversations with Kurds
upon the way, he reached Teheran, and
eventually got to the Black Sea, and
so to Istanbul.
Opera Stones
There used to be only iyobbe’s opera-
book from which the programme-
annotator or journalistic commentator
could dig the stories of operas or the
settings, of arias; now there is a long
shelf of opera-books for the newest,
The Decca Book of Opera (Werner
Laurie), to join; “164 of the world’s
most famous operas critically examined
by 36 leading authorities with a fore-
word by Erich Kleiber.”
In time, it ranges from Monteverde,
who began opera, to Britten and
Menotti and Weill (but no Alban Berg
—“Wozzeck,” the most advanced of
all operas, just doesn’t seem to have
caught on); and though it doesn’t
mention Rousseau and other such
rarities, it seems to have most of the
operas one is likely to hear on the
stage and certainly all those on Decca
records.
It is about recordings, naturally
enough, that Kleiber makes his best
point in his short preface; opera-in-
the-home has come into its own with
the long-playing record, he considers;
moreover, because a recorded perform-
ance can be repeated in part again and
again until it is considered good
enough, “the hazards which afflict even
the greatest performers are, or should
have been, expunged from the final
copy.... and in the case of certain
famous passages, the listener may be
assured that he will be unlikely ever
to hear them so well given in the
theatre.”
And to help the reader to the records
there is a “Discography” of 68 pages
at the back of the book listing the
Decca records both of complete operas
and of isolated arias and overtures—
a most impressive catalogue; while the
first 65 pages are short biographies of
(Decca) singers and (Decca) conductors.
One cannot help noticing the differ-
ence between the more lush apprecia-
tions of early opera-books and the
assessive. astringent introductions of
the group of experts to each composer
in the present book; none of them gets
more than one-and-three-quarter pages
to a composer, but it is the mark of
an expert that he really can condense
and epitomise his knowledge, and these
notices, swift, forthright and down-
right, are always readable and to the
point, as, for instance, Francis Toye on
Puccini, Martin Cooper on Charpentier,
Cecil Smith on Leoncavallo and Arthur
Jacobs on Sullivan—it is about time
Sullivan was established in the line
that runs, Mozart, Rossini. Offenbach,
Sullivan; one gets tired of hearing that
the first great English musician since
Purcell was Elgar.
The book is completed, of course,
with the stories of the operas, most
of them as ridiculous as ever; the usual
glossy portraits of singers looking
•impossible in plain clothes and improb-
able when made-up for their roles, and
an index.
It is as good a book of its kind as
one has seen, but whether it will com-
pletely satisfy the operagoer, or
especially the listener to gramophone-
opera, is another matter. What is really
needed is a line-by-line translation of
what is being sung, especially for such
composers as Mozart, whose strokes
of wit and truth too often pass as
pleasing melodies to those who do not
know what the music is commenting
upon. A verse-translation is generally
undesirable, as verse-translations of
any kind generally garble the meaning
in attempting to reproduce rhythms
and rhymes;, but a prose-translation,
set out line-by-line with the verse,
should make many a well-known piece
of opera into a new thing for those
who know only the music.
Cricket Novel
A Sky-blue Life, by Maurice Moisei-
witsch (Heinemann), is the second
novel to hand within the last six months
based on an imaginary cricket-tour of
Australia by an English team.
This one covers only a brief space,
part of the second-last day, the inter-
vening night and the last day of the
fourth Test in Melbourne, with a win
to England giving it the Ashes,
England is set the “impossible” 473
runs to make in eight hours, and of
course gets them, the winning hit being
made off the second-last ball of the
match. One recalls something similar
happening in the other book.
The author doesn’t know Australian
cricket conditions. A ball doesn’t
“cross” the boundary in big matches in
Australia, as spectators aren’t allowed
inside the oval; play doesn’t continue
to as late an hour as in England; and
the Sheffield Shield competition can’t
be labelled League cricket. The Aus-
tralian supporter may also be riled in
places by a note of British superiority
which creeps in. The Australian captain
is not even referred to or named till
a few pages from the end.
Another technical point, and one not
peculiar to Australian cricket—the
cunning old professional Jeffers should
not have been allowed by the umpires
to steal a run while fast-bowler Ryder
(no relation to Jack, as far as is known)
is running up to bowl. Rule 46, note
4 (vii) says that’s very unethical.
But there is more than cricket in
the book. There are the players off the
field, their private lives, their thoughts,
their various worries, the married
ones’ goings-on when on tour and apart
from wife and family; all of which is
done brightly and breezily. The title
derives from the view there are clouds
in a cricket-star’s life ; though, if the
goings-on by one or two of these
fictional cricketers are anyway
paralleled in real life —well, there’s still
a bit of blue heaven around off the
field in compensation.
Maurice Moiseiwitsch, nephew of
pianist-Benno, was born in Russia in
1914 and was taken to England in
1921. He has also written a cpuple of
psychological novels.
K.R.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 424
Across
I—Nourishment1 —Nourishment for the money-mad.
(9)
6 —Polish city way of standing by
the North. (5)
9—Marched badly when enchanted.
(7)
10 — Bags —or the achievements which
exempt fieldsmen from advice to
get bags. (7)
11— They don’t make catches. (6)
12— Fear hasn’t a regulation’s
umbrella parts. (8)
14 —Dress one in a Roman garment
' hidden by any goat. (4)
16—Curio-fancier found in the Quay
train. (9)
19— Springing back about the mum
whom I interrupt. (9)
20 — Next about the cowhouse. (4)
22 — Wrath in the honorable hench-
man. (6-2)
23 — Influential churchman is a creeper
after Diana. (6)
26 Crazy communication from 17-
down. (7)
27 A couple of bucks. (3, 4)
28 — Raids in the Libyan Gulf. (5)
29 Single moo is enough for a new
word. (9)
Down
1— Reduce the population, but marry
after December 1. (8)
2 A slur disturbed these mounts.
(5)
3 Border writer of rope. (6)
4 International keynote to remove
buttons from buttonholes. (4)
5 Seer’s tonic, (anagram) (10)
6 A heavenly gatekeeper not in
the office fizzle. (5, 3)
7 Deranged Carl’s holy and
studious. (9)
8 — Fliers may brood on such
matters. (5)
13 —A gratuity poem on an inhabitant
of the other side of the globe.
(10)
15 —The jealous looked inexperienced
before it. (5-4)
17— -Secretly arrive in part of Aus-
tralia. (8)
18 — The Maori to support the mutton
wire. (8)
21— Nothing on a Kipling character
is rearranged, but an Oriental
garment. (6)
22 Mirth’s hedges in ditches. (5)
24—Ancient British people. (5)
25 Eight for an Italian boy in tbto.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 423


ENT
POSALS DEALERS
'
Q
■
MX3954
Special
Size
Tyres
at
Special
Prices!
PRICE
:t £l6/10,
Tyres 98 p.e. new, xO ply rating, sizes 825 x 10 x
10 tyres wheei and tubes off 25 pound guns. These
tyres will fit the Lawton Fork Lift Truck and
Seammel Mechanical Horses. Suitable for trailer
builder, house removers and anywhere there is
hard work. The heavier the load the better. At
the present time these are being used by a large
Glass Company and Breweries. First to see
this unit will buy.
THIS No. FOR TYRES: MX3954
NEW
900 x 13 x 6 ply £l4/-/
825 x 10 x 10 ply £l7/10/-
700 x 20 x 6 ply £l3/15/-
650 x 20 x 6 ply £l6/10/-
600 x 20 x 8 ply £l4/10/
750 x 18 x 8 or 10 ply £l6/10/
750 x 16 x 8 ply £l4/15/-
Also Second-Hand Tyres In Stock.
STOCK REMOULDS
700 x 20—10 ply £l2/17/6
750 x 20—10
825 x 20—10
900 x 20—10
LOOO x 20—12
1100 x 20—12
ply
ply
ply
ply
ply
Every Size Stocked.
£l5/15/9 „
£B/10/6 „
£24/4/3 „
£26/10/3 „
£3O/16/6 „
Write for Quote.
TANK WHEELS
a
cs
a
TANK, WHEELS. Size 16x6* lta,
rubber. Brand New. (No Bear-
ings). Price, £l5/-/- pr.
Price £l5 pair
MMS
Brand New to suit 52
Model Bodge, Plym. and
Be Soto. Price £l5 each.
Also in Stock, Pord Radia-
tors with 4in. Core, suit-
able for Stationary engine,
etc. Price £22/10/-.
BAKING DISHES
Brand New. Size 14 x 11 x
3*/S. m I /-
Price each . // O
RUBBER TYRES
BOGEY WHEEL
Bren Gun Rubber
Tyred Wheels, 20in.
3!in., with hearings.
£l5 PAIR.
Bin Steel Wheels.
Complete with bearings,
heavy duty wheel.
yRICE 55/- a pair.
1
Wheel Barrow and Trailer
Wheels. Complete unit incl.
tyres, wheels, tubes and
bearings.
Si/e 16 x 4.
Price complete £6/10/-.
Black or Tan. First quality work-
manship. Made with success of 20
years’ experience in the saddlery trade.
PRICE £3O.
MEXICAN
SADDLES
LEG ROPES,
BRAND NEW
With ex-Amy quick-
release straps.
Price 4/6 each.
/(
Ex-Army
TIE LOW CASES
.Laundered. First
duality.
2/9 EACH.
SO/- dozen,,
Post 9d. ea. extra
Sealed Beam Auto Lamp
12-16 volts. Pair, 37/6
4in
65/
65/
tin. UNIVERSAES. Ford,
Brand New. Will also fit
Cbevs., Maple Eeai and Bed-
ford. 40-48 Spicer, No. CB-8.
PRICE 65/- EACH.
TOOL BOXES
vl'KEIi
4(j x 13 x 6
20/-
Ideal for
carpenters
&1-
coj
S/H VICES (Engineers),
4in. Jaws. Price 70/- each.
Excellent Condition.
PUMPS
Brand New. Bii'.abong Hori-
zontal Pumps. Size 1 Viin inlet and
outlet. Complete with Strainer.
PRICE £6/15/-.
it .4 5' '> Net
ADZE HEADS,
Price
12/6
each.
RADIATOR CORES
Brand New Chev.
Size: 221i*in. x 18in. x Sin
Price £lO each
_ . —j
BOMB HOIST
Ex-RAAF Bomb Hoist. Brand
New. Can be hooked up any-
where. Ideal for Garages, Engin-
eering Work, shops, etc. A light
portable hoist that will do 101
jobs. Price, £l2/10/-. Capacity,
S cwt.
I I I I I ! I I I !
S.H. EX-ARMY HATS
BSjK
In excellent condition.
sizes, price 19/6
each.
Slightly damaged
condition but still a
good hat. Price 13/6
each. Post 2/- extra.
EX-ARM St
1
w s
••• .
warn
T>Kllili JACKETS.
In perfect condition.
Sizes to 36in. clieSt.
PKICE 15/- EACH.
EX-ARMY
3-gall. Dixies
Oval type and complete
with lids.
Price 25/- each
An ideal ramninis not.
Balm Engine Cleaning
Compound
5-gall. Drum, 407-
PACK SADDLES
V
Ex-Army
recondi-
tioned. A
first-class
buy. A
must for
drovers,
station
owners,
etc.
Price, £l2/10/- each.
r%
HORSE RUGS made from
200 x. water-stained canvas
and lined with ex-army
woollen blankets, complete
with snap hooks on leg
straps.
PRICE £4/10/-. Post 4/-
HOPE
brand
NEW
STEED
ROPE
13/lfiiii.
Diameter.
Price
2/6 ft.
Any
length
cut.
EX-ARMY
SADDLE
POUCHES
Brand new,
PRICE
12/6
Pair.
Post 2/6
Extra,
All leather.
R»a
Price, lot 39/6.
RIFLE
SPECIAL
for Riflemen
and Rifle
Clubs:
I cleaner, 1
Bandolier, 1
qrt. Rifle Oil,
Rifle
Scabbard.
All ex-army.
Ex-Army Brand New
BREADCUTXERS
25/- EACH
/////,
wmm:,
-77X7777,
Girls’
Shoes.
Brand
New.
Black.
Size
13.
35/- pr
2ft. Gin. size, in perfect condition.
PRICE 65/- EACH.
VONO FOLDING
BEDS!
TROUSERS
B
EX-ARMY
Brand new in
Sizes 38, 10,
42 waist.
30/- pair.
Terrific
value.
RAIN WEAR
15/-
EX-ARMY
S.H. Ground Sheet
Rain-pr'oof Capes
As issuer! to tire Army,
winter necessity for thosi
who work in the rain, etc
PRICE 15/- EACH
Gabardine
RAINCOATS
Women’s Size only.
lawn color, complete
with belt.
Slightly
shop soiled.
PRICE
25 A EACH.
©
©
©
©
Ford Pistons, brand new,
four-ring:, complete with rings
and gudgeons/ailoy. They are
3.190 in. Price £% each.
Cliev. three-ring pistons, com-
plete with gudgeon pin, no
rings, 3.5 plus .030 oversize.
_ Price 30/-,
30 SPANNERS
in FREE Tool Box.
mi
TOOL
BOX
V mixture of 30 spanners in
Free Tool Box. Comprising
open ender, ring and tube.
Price £5/5/-
Canvas Folding Chairs
Arm-rest style. Condition
perfect* —B-
fenders,
camping
leisure.
Price 30/- each
"S
SSS
Ex-Army .Mattress, 2ft. fiiu.
arid 3ft.
PRICE 30/- EACH
GARDEN TOOLS
Hoe, Brush Hook and Shovel
h
Price, 3 for 30/-.
WIRE CUTTERS
l
HBI
EX-ARMY WIRE CUTTERS
Will cut heaviest gauge wire
Brand New. BRICE 8/G i>r
STRAP HINGES
Galvanised. Brand New. 2in
wide. Price 15/- pair.
PLEASE WRITE NAME & ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK LETTERS
No C.O.D. MAIL, PHONE, OR CALL No C.O.D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding, please add Freight.
KING'S
LEATH'^GOODS-TYIES
122-124 Devonshire St.
GENERAL MERCHANTS
Sydney
WRITE FOR POST FREE CATALOGUE.
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station,
Phones, FA7691 FA9155, MX3954. After hours only: MX1269.
w
(iEEEN. BLACK, MAROON.
BRAND NEW.
Prices .»*>,. - sheet, 8 x I x 6.
40/- sheet, 6 x 4 x <>.
Cream. Pr. 15/- sheet, Ift. 6in. x 2ft.
Don’t delay. Bimited Stocks.
WOODEN FRAME
SPRING WIRE STRETCHERS
Condition Per feet. Single Bed Size.
l2jr £< -e (io/-_each. jhimited number.
GALVANISED WASH TUBS
#
EX-ARMY BEDS
Fv-Army Beds in as New
( ondition. 2ft. Bin., fiO/-.
Tubular Steel
Folding Stretchers
Suitable for rcsidentials, shearers’
sheds. Diamond wire. Every
bed guaranteed.
Priced at 25/-
GOOD CONDITION
PRICE
£3/-/-
AHGLE IRON BEDS
STEEL BABY COTS
£5/5/-.
Hospital - type.
Drop side. In
condition.
PRICK £ 5/5»/'
Double
perfect.
Brand New Razors
Brand New Razors, complete with
tin container. 9d each. Post od
extra.
STARTER MOTORS
CHEV.
Starter Motors Chev Foot
Contact Type, £B/10/-.
Solonoid Type, £9/10/-.
Brand New.
Extension Poles
Three ft. Extension Poles.
Screwed both ends. Can
be made up to any length.
Brand new. Ideal Tent
Poles. PRICE 3/6 each.
Chevrolet
Generators
Reconditioned and
Guaranteed.
Condition perfect.
Price £lO each.
