

c&dW'
A
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Child Delinquents—page 32
Wednesday, October 9, 1957
Price l/«
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Registered in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
SCOTLAND'S GLAMIS, CASTLE OF
ROYAL MEMORY
LAM IS CASTLE, the seat of the Earl of
Strathmore, is rich in historic associations,
and it is held in special pride and affection by
Scottish people for it was the childhood home of
Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, and the birth-
place in 1930 of Princess Margaret. The castle is
the subject of more legends and hauntings, myths
and mysteries than any other building in Britain.
Its secret chamber and its contents are said to be
known only to the Earl of Strathmore, his heir,
on reaching the age of 21, and one other person,
and it is one of those select mysteries which has
defied curiosity.
From a remote period Glamis was a favourite
Royal hunting-lodge. King Malcolm II went there
to die in 1033 after receiving a mortal wound from
an assassin’s arrow on the neighboring “Elunter’s
Hill.” The castle became the property of the
Lyon Family„ who still hold it. in the 14th century,
when King Robert II gave it to his daughter as
a dowry on her marriage to Sir John Lyon. In
1445 a grandson of this marriage became the first
Lord Glamis, a title which ranks now as one of
the oldest Scottish baronies. Traces of the original
tower remain in the crypt and dungeon of the
present building, which dates from the 15th
century and was much enlarged and enriched
between the years 1578 and 1620.
In 1672, Patrick, the 3rd Earl, became Earl of
Strathmore and Kinghorne, Viscount Lyon and
Baron Glamis. One of his building operations
was the chapel and its decoration which adjoins
the Great Hall, shown in the accompanying
illustration. Tradition has it that a lady in grey
is sometimes seen kneeling in one of the pews,
but that the spectre dissolves when approached.
The Great Hall, with its Jacobean ceiling and its
richly-decorated fireplace, is one of the most
impressive rooms in the castle, which w r as opened
to thf* public for the first time in the summer
of 1950.
No. 370: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


BOOKHUNTER, Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
obtain volume, let us find it for you—Action,
text book, biography, history, etc. Moderate
fee only if successful.
The Red Page
MARRIAGE IN AUSTRALIA
In Marriage and the Family in
Australia, a very dismal book edited
by A. P. Elkin (Angus and Robert-
son), W. D. Borrie, of the National
University, Canberra, congratulates us
on overtaking the undertakers since
World War II to the extent of 1.3 per
cent. This, he goes on to say cheerily,
will raise us to 33.8 million in 100
years without immigration, and at the
same rate the world’s population would
be 9460 million, “which some see as
close to the limit of the numbers of
mouths that can be fed from our
planet’s resources.”
This is because of “low mortality
with an average family size of about
three children” —i.e., people live too
long. Only Bernard Shaw had the
right answer: people must not be born
until twenty —but Borrie doesn’t think
this worth mentioning.
Then Dr. Jean Martin knocks firmly
on the head the lovely Australian
delusion of a “classless society”; we
have, it seems, not only a lower-,
middle- and upper-class, but also
subdivisions of these: —•
In Australia the highest status is
accorded to ownership of large
businesses and landholdings; the
professional group headed by the
doctors comes next, then non-
professional white-collar workers
such as shop-assistants and office-
workers, followed by skilled workers
and, finally, laborers.
Weddings, says Dr. Martin, are a
good test of class: —
The wider kin-groups of bride and
’groom are usually much more
directly concerned in the wedding
among the working-classes and
people of highest status... .Among
the upper-middle-class the active
participation of the wider-kin group
in a wedding is likely to be resented
as interference.
Nor by taking thought can the
Enemy of Society avoid Dr. Martin’s
classificatory eye:—
By getting married at short notice,
or in a registry-office and during the
course of a working day....many
would-be declasse people in our
society (the “bohemians" and some
sections of the creative artists and
academics) proclaim their rejection
of class conventions ; but their very
casualness and informality often
serve to draw attention to the event
and mask it with the public signific-
ance which, presumably, they are
trying to avoid.
You can’t win! Well, says Dr.
Martin, a man can
gradually dissociate himself from
his family of origin in late adoles-
cence and /or early adulthood....
It is only by founding a family of
his own and bringing up his children
from the beginning to a higher-
status manner of living that the
upwardly mobile individual can
effectively consolidate his new posi-
tion .... By ignoring some details
of his background, embellishing
others and projecting the present
into the past he may then gradually
construct an idealised picture of the
family he comes from.
Translate this sober scientific
language into a novel (and someone
should) and what would the critics call
it? A vicious satire? Indeed,, any
novelist would do well to consult these
essays. For instance, Harold Falding’s
analysis of a Sydney inquiry into
twenty professionals’ and eighteen
tradesmen’s families —most of them
preferred to have their friends at a
distance than as neighbors. And in the
course of a long disquisition on the
changing functions of the Australian
family, Dr. Morven S. Brown ascribes
the often-noticed anaesthesia of Aus-
tralian men to women, of which segre-
gation of the sexes at parties is a
contemporary symptom, to the early
colonial shortage of women: —
Intra-sex loyalties and mateship
came to be exalted as prized mascu-
line attributes. The Australian man
took a kind of pride in his capacity
to exclude erotic interest or aspira-
tion from his outlook on life.
And, still from Dr. Brown, the
novelist may take a preassembled
representative Australian home: —
Australians are anchored to their
own houses. About 60 per cent, of
them own their own dwellings....
The typical Australian house is still
a five-roomed, one-storied building
set in a block of land about 60ft. by
140 ft., with a strip of lawn in front,
with a poinsettia in one corner and
an ornamental pine-tree in the
other . . .
This may seem depressing enough,
but the case-histories at the end of
the Rev. W. G. Coughlan’s chapter on
“Marriage Breakdowns,” and “Family
Life and Child Care in Australia,” by
F. W. Clements and Norma Parker,
largely a study of delinquent parents,
may well alter a prospective novelist’s
course from satire to tragedy; and
so may Professor Elkin’s summing-up:
The calculation is that 15 per
cent, of the population either will
or should spend part of their life-
time in a mental hospital, and that
another 20 or more per cent., while
not needing hospitalisation, are
nervously and emotionally unfit to
cope with even the normal demands
of marriage and family living.
But as Claude Mackay remarked to
the disciples gathered round him at a
“Smith’s Weekly” conference: “If
everyone’s going to live a happy life,
where are we going to get our men of
genius?”
More Slessor
The most satisfying thing about the
new edition of Slessor’s Poems (Angus
and Robertson) is on the back of the
title-page:—
First published 1944.
Reprinted 1947, 1951.
Second Edition 1957.
For Slessor fans, an expression
which will probably draw from the
Master a tear of joy, or something,
the thought that there are now so
many new readers will be almost as
gratifying as that there are three new
poems. The fan of any kind tends to
identify himself with the object of
devotion, and as a Slessor fan
one mqy well be puzzled to know how
one came to write “An Inscription for
Dog River” —“It isn’t me speaking,”
one says to oneself.
But then the thought comes: maybe
Slessor has some say in this; and on
careful reflection, this epitaph for
Australia’s only Field Marshal: —
We, too, are part of his memorial....
Having given him everything, in fact,
Except respect,
is probably the most representatively
Australian thing Slessor ever wrote;
here he expresses the judgment of every
Australian on his leaders, whether they
be Blarney, Bradman, Brookes, Bob or
Bert.
Still, in the only other memory of
his service as war-correspondent, the
requiem for dead sailors, with its
beautiful and ghastly hornpipe in the
third line, he is more the poet we
imagine ourselves to be when we are
reading him; and in the third new
poem, “Polarities,” he is the inexhaust-
ible technician, showing, this time, how
a group of disjunct images can be
made into a bouquet for presentation
to the lady of whom they are a
portrait.
Turning through the book, and think-
ing of his inexhaustible variety, one
is reminded that, in reviewing a book
of Australian sonnets and naming the
other Slessor sonnets that should have
accompanied “Thief of the Moon,”
one entirely forgot to mention so
tremendous a sonnet as “Crow
Country,” although one knows it by
heart; to say nothing of “Full
Orchestra.” It is a consolation to think
that he is as careless himself; or why
else should he leave out “Secret
{Continued on page 58)


EAVY
u
V
■
lar-si
AS-182 with the NEW ABD-264
TILT VALVE ENGINE
Fuel or food, timber or freight, these extra heavy duty International trucks are lifting maximum
loads at lower cost. On highways stretched over distant Australian horizons, and on cluttered
by-roads around harbours and rail-heads, heavyweight International haulers are turning in the
ton-mile economy figures that have won favour with Australia’s biggest fleet operators.
Powerful, dependable International R-192 and International SF-174 trucks are firm friends
with truckmen who know well their all-truck design and big hearted power units . , . men who,
from their “comfo-vision” cabs, have watched hundreds of thousands of money-making miles
roll by.
Now, the International AS-182 is offered to operators with the new Australian Black Diamond
ABD-264 “tilt-valve” engine. This new motor turns out a maximum brake horsepower of 153.5
at 3,800 r.p.m., maximum torque of 248 lb.-ft. at 2,400 r.p.m. —developed with low fuel con-
sumption.
This story of constantly improving International truck performance should prompt an immediate call on your
nearest I.H. Dealer or State International Harvester Office. It will be more than worth your while. It will help
put you right on top of the road haulage business 1
&
A
THE NEW ABD-264
T.V, (TILT VALVE) ENGINE
A big feature is the high maximum
net torque of 236 lb.-ft. at only
1,200 r.p.m. This performance
increase is due to more efficient
breathing—dual throat carbur-
ettor, new air filter and manifold
design. Increased compression
ratio of 7.5 to 1 and new, deep
combustion chamber and piston
design, improves combustion,
keeps valve temperature lower,
increases valve life.
R-192
\
Ull
INTERNATIONAL EXTRA HEAVY DUTY TRUCKS
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. fmt.76x/m


The Bulletin
Wednesday, October 9,1957
Vol. 78—No. 4052
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 304 North Terrace,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
BACK TO COMMUNIST
CONTROL
NOBODY rejoices except the Com-
munists at the results of the A.C.T.U.
elections, which virtually place the
Communist party in strategic control of
national trade-union policy.
Nothing could be less palatable than
the idea of industrial affairs being run
from the union side by a junta which
has flatly rebuffed the Rightists and
whose domineering bloc is headed by
a notorious member of the Communist-
party Politbureau—a body which the
three judges of the Petrov commis-
sion found to have received funds from
Moscow, and which admits that it is
afraid to keep books, financial or other-
wise, or records, and which also
admits having engaged in such
activities as trailing the cars of security-
officers and noting-down their numbers
for future use.
Mr. Healy, who will direct the policy
of those who work with him for the
promotion of the class-war and the
wreckage of the economy, is a man
recently home from Russia, who on a
television interview a few days ago
was apparently unable to say quite
where he stood. He is a man who
openly opposed recruiting during the
last war until Russia entered the field
under duress, and he has the backing
of an inner Cabinet in the new executive
of such men as Comrade McNolty,
Federal secretary of the Sheetmetal
Workers, one of whose principal
officials has been the financial head of
the Communist party over many years
and is now a Communist alderman of
the Sydney City Council; W. P. Evans,
of the strongly Leftist F.E.D.F.A.,
whose policy is notorious; and other
men of the same breed.
The new controllers, to whom Albert
Monk can be expected to buckle-down
in the light of his attitude after his
visit to Red China, and Mr. Kenny,
of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council, along with McNolty, the
president of that body, are now of little
importance. The incoming gang having
defeated the Grouper unions, which
were shamelessly betrayed by some of
their own supposed friends, wasted no
time in carrying out the preliminaries
to a thorough shakedown of the
community with a view to disrupting
the economy and defence.
They secured a hurried change in
the constitution of the A.C.T.U.
executive to recognise the power of
industrial-unionism and allow direct
representation on the executive of six
industrial-union groups which suit the
Communist book, this move being
calculated to restore control of the
Communists in a similar way to that
which operated during World War 11.
Under this scheme the State Trades
and Labor Council will have only one
representative, instead of two, each on
the executive. And the giant building,
food and distribution, metal, services
and transport and manufacturing
groups, a majority of which the Com-
munists or extreme Leftists dominate,
will have an added one each. That
the chief and forceful advocate of this
idea was the Communist-leader Healy
speaks for the intention of it; and that
he had the full and active support of
W. P. Evans and of Garland, of the
Amalgamated Engineering Union,
proves where those heroes stand.
And the matter is not at finality.
For once having made places for the
Communist party’s hatchet-men and
stooges by this device at this year’s
Metropolitan Cement
Mixture—page 20
election, Mr. Healy made it clear that
the newly developed Red strength
would be used next year “to review the
number and composition of the groups
and the method of election.”
This, of course, means that a process
is in train whereby the present titular
and nominal heads will be ousted and
more frankly Red bosses will go to
the top and realise the Communist
ideals for which the A.C.T.U. was
originally formed in the 1920’s by Jock
Garden and his lieutenants.
Having completed their manoeuvres
on the structure of the council and
assured future control through having
a majority of Communists and their
fellow-travellers or unwilling helots, the
Communists in the meeting got down
to business with their programme to
win the support of the rank-and-file
and at the same time do as much
damage to the economy as possible.
They were not strong enough to
carry some of their measures at this
stage, but they succeeded in destroying
the Nausen system of voting at
election-ballots which has ruled for 27
years and in introducing a system
similar to Dr. Evatt’s Senate-voting
devices.
Where their class-war policy is going
is shown by the open advocacy of the
35-hour week, and by the attempt to
produce a 24-hour stoppage on the
basic-wage issue throughout Australia.
This was put forward by Alderman
T. Wright, one of the traditional and
most influential members of the Com-
munst leadership, with trimmings—the
“restoration of the basic-wage quarterly
adjustment, relativity of margins, with
periodic reviews to increase wage-
standards according to the nation’s
increasing productive-capacity.” It is
proposed that the executive, in associa-
tion with the unions, work out
composite claims and initiate negotia-
tions or applications to achieve the
wage objectives.
It is significant that the only greet-
ings received by the congress from
overseas were from the Soviet Union
and Red Chinese trade-union move-
ments and from those of one or two
Red satellites.
Each greeting invited the congress
to send delegates to visit countries
behind the Iron Curtain.
It is equally significant that, com-
bined with the ardent desire expressed
by the Red section of the congress for
the return of a Commonwealth Labor
Government amenable to its plans, the
official Communist newspapers are now
as openly supporters of Dr. Evatt as
they are of Healy.
His speeches are features of the
“Tribune”, and, as presented, form
some *of the most effective Communist
propaganda which is being issued by
the party. Its hate of Chambers, who
has been expelled for opposing Dr.
Evatt, is as bitter as Dr. Evatt’s own
—Mr. Chambers is held up as a strike-
breaker who sent the Army to the
coalfields in 1949, whereas, in fact, the
main responsibility for the action
rested on the shoulders of Prime
Minister Chifley and the Attorney-
General, Dr. Evatt.
On the present showing of form,
Australia is due for a period of unrest
and disruption and Communist domina-
tion of industry similar to that which
existed in the palmy days of the
Thornton - Healy - Elliott combination.
That is unless the Government at
Canberra is prepared to take strong
enough measures to make it impossible.


THE NEW RUSSIAN STEAMROLLER


PLAIN ENGLISH
The N.S.W. Rural Bank
What manner of institution is the Rural
Bank of N.S.W., the State Government
agency that has been in the spotlight
following criticism of its £4-million loan
to that uneconomic and inexplicable
enterprise, Metropolitan Portland Cement,
Ltd.?
Well, the Rural Bank survived as a State
bank when the remainder of the old
N.S.W. Government Savings Bank was
taken over by the Commonwealth Savings
Bank in December, 1931.
On July 1, 1933, the name of the
Government Savings Bank of N.S.W.
was changed to the Rural Bank of
N.S.W. The business of the Rural Bank
is conducted in two departments—general
department (including advances for
homes) and the Government-agency
department.
Its general bank department conducts
“a complete trading-bank service, includ-
ing current (cheque) accounts, overdrafts,
fixed deposits, letters-of-credit (for
imports and travelling) and the issue of
drafts.”
“The period under review” in the June
30, 1956, accounts (ordered to be printed
April 11, 1957). “is regarded as entirely
satisfactory,” by the commissioners, “and
indicated still further progress in all
sections of the bank.” The commissioners
in their report offer “the following brief
details,” which “are set out to show at
a glance the position as at June 30,
1956”:
£
*Net profit . .. .. 111,156
T £
General .. .. .. 3,044,853
Special 7,247,472 10.292,325
Gross earnings 2,620,939
JExpenses of management .. .. T/787A32
Advances made .'. .. 10,038 for 7,719.120
Advances outstanding .. 41,793 for 49,310 439
Deposits 35,064,007
Total assets 65,904,442
Total liabilities 55,612,117
Excess assets over liabilities. .. !! 1b’292^325
* An increase of £4618 for the year,
f Represents 15.62 per cent, of total assets,
f Approximately 13s. 7d. in each £ of gross
earnings—considered to be very satisfactory.
The notes prefaced by asterisks, daggers,
etc., are the bank’s own running-
commentary and critique.
Another explanatory paragraph in the
report reads:
Interest-rates on loans, other than on
personal loans, were increased from April 1,
1956. The new and pld rates are as under:’
New Old
. . _ . Rate. Rate.
W Co -operative
societies, marketing-
boards and local-
government authori-
ties concession-rate
•• •; 5% p.a. 4±% p.a.
(b) Non - profit - making
organisations con-
’cession-rate of .. 5|% p.a. 4J% p.a.
(c) General, rural and
home loans .. .. 5|% p.a. 5% p.a.
W Personal Loans .. 6% p.a. 6% p.a.
flat flat
Even “a non-profit-making organisation”
[sub-paragraph (£)), which - might be
thought to include such enterprises as
Metropolitan Cement (losses to Dec. 31,
1956, £787,714), was charged 5} p.c.
from April 1, 1956. But, according to
Auditor-General Campbell, the rate
charged to Metropolitan Cement, even
after the “upping” of the rate, remained
at 5 p.c., and it has now been reduced
to 4 p.c., retroactive to July 1, 1956. It
is thus 1 p.c. below what might be
termed the bank’s charity-rate.
Last year (1955-56), according to the
commissioners’ report, the Rural Bank
made a profit of £111,156.
This was apart from a half-share of
the profits earned by the Common-
wealth Savings Bank in N.S.W. In the
year to June 30, 1956, the Rural Bank
received £587,959 from this source, and
£629,614 in the preceding year. These
windfalls, which today represent the
greater part of the Rural Bank’s capital,
are the source of its “Special Reserve
Account,” totalling £7,247,472 at last
balance-day.
The bank doesn’t advertise the source
of this largesse, which currently is show-
ing signs of diminishing under competi-
tion from the trading-bank savings-banks.
National Superannuation
The attempt by L. C. Wilson, M.P.,
of South Australia, to wake the House
of Representatives to a debate on
contributory superannuation for the
whole community, emphasises the fact
that the time is not far off when the
Commonwealth, now professedly a free-
enterprise community but actually a
Welfare State, which is fast turning into
a Handout State, will have to face the
realities.
The present system is utterly inequit-
able, as making the thrifty both pay and
be penalised, and is reaching Franken-
stein proportions.
The pension issue is becoming every
year a more potent influence in politics,
with the Labor party using it consistently
as a bribe to buy the votes of the old and
the sick—a form of appeal to bloc
sections which is scarcely a thing to be
proud of.
There seems to be no more reason,
save in cases of hardship, for which Mr.
Wilson proposes to provide a special
fund, why the aged in these days of full
employment should graduate, free of
charge, to the privilege of living on
the Treasury at 60 or 65 than there is for
provision of absolutely free medical
services, which have been placed very
successfully on a contributory basis.
Age and invalid pensions have
increased from £4.9i million in 1950-51
to an estimated £l2l million in 1957-58
—this apart from other benefits which
pensioners receive, such as special
consideration by the Taxation Depart-
ment, medical benefits for pensioners
(which haye gone up from about half-a- .
million to over £3 million in six years)
and pharmaceutical benefits, which have
climbed in the same period from
£400,000 to nearly £3 million.
With life-assurance services already
offering on an elaborate scale in Aus-
tralia, it should be possible to develop
a scheme which would suit most pockets
and needs on a basis of premiums which
would place very little burden on
individuals ; also, which could be gradu-
ated to enable every person in the
community to nominate the scale on
which he proposed to provide for the
old-age of himself and his wife, and over
what period the provision should be
made.
In the beginning, the Commonwealth’s
contribution would be fairly high,
but it should, as the years go by,
represent a diminishing, instead of a
rising, outlay.
Of course, Labor wouldn’t like it. Such
a scheme would deprive it of one of its
most useful forms of electoral bribery.
, The Doughboys
No Government since the war has
received a greater advertisement in Vic-
toria from a rebuff than that achieved
by the Bolte Government when the
Country and the Labor parties combined
to sabotage the Government's bread bill.
* This was designed to give consumers
equal representation on the bread-
industry committee’set-up under the bill
with the industry’s representatives, and
an independent chairman ; to compel the
delivery of bread within two miles (to
stimulate competition); and the removal
of all working-hours restrictions on one-
man bakeries.
Melbourne has been suffering for years
from local monopolies, indifferent service
and in many cases poor-quality bread ;
and to preserve this state of affairs the
Operative Bakers’ Union and the Bread
Carters’ Federation influenced the Labor-
party vote, while the Master Bakers had
no difficulty in persuading the Country
party also to vote against the vital clauses
of the bill and so wreck it.
The Labor party’s indifference to the
interests of consumers under special
legislation was demonstrated as far back
as the 1930’5, when its legislation, under
which most of the controversial boards
engaged in marketing were established,
provided no representation for consumers
until the Liberal Opposition shamed them
into doing so.
As to the Country party’s association
with the bread industry, Bolte said, “I
thought that members were elected to
represent the public, not a pressure-
group.” It was a characteristically
unexcited comment from the Premier, but
the note of submission to pressure-groups
was disquieting.
The Ethnic Sarong
There was nothing very new in the hint
of Indonesian Foreign Minister Dr
Subandrio that if the United Nations
Assembly could not find “a final, peaceful
settlement” of the Dutch New Guinea
problem his country might have to
“embark on another course.”
To Indonesia “final peaceful settle-
ment” means the complete surrender of
the territory by the Dutch, and although
signed agreements between the two
countries left the future of West New
Guinea to be decided later by negotiation
Dr. Soekarno’s Government has insisted
in acting as though the question had
already been decided in its favor and


as if the only point to be settled were how
to get the Dutch out.
However, in his latest statement of
claim, Dr. Subandrio used a new argu-
ment —one which closely concerns Aus-
tralia. In the past Indonesia has always
based its claims on “legalistic” grounds —-
sometimes “historical and legalistic.”
Now, it appears, there are ethnic reasons
also for the “West Irian” claim.
Rejecting suggestions of settling the
matter on the basis of self-determination,
Subandrio said that this would imply
Indonesian consent for a procedure that
would pave the way “for further arti-
ficially created attempts to break up the
national structure of our community”
and that the suggestion was based on the
“false and irrelevant assumption that the
people of that area form a separate
ethnical group.”
There is danger for Australia in this
line of talk. If the people of West New
Guinea don’t form “a separate ethnical
group” from those of Indonesia, then the
people of Australian New Guinea don’t
either. Soekarno has always asserted that
he has no claims at all on our end of the
New Guinea island. But in the event of
his persuading U.N. to bully the Dutch
out of West New Guinea how long will
it be before he tries to spread his ethnic
sarong over the whole of the island?
The Bells of Sf. Mary's
[»y “Ek I)um”l
AFTER the war, when Prime Minister
Chifley had discussed defence with
the Federal Conference of the A.L.P.
and had told it, “You let us know what
defence policy you want, and we’ll carry
it out,” there was a race to get rid of
defence - establishments and defence-
material.
Thousands of tons and tens of millions
of pounds’-worth of equipment were sold
for a song at the flick of a finger, making
hundreds of unworthy people well-to-do
overnight. Vehicles were sold in con-
voys, metal in mountains. Drill-halls and
establishments, Nissen huts and war-
factories became the playground of specu-
lators and friends who needed
accommodation.
Of course, this was all justified by
Labor standards. There was going to be
no war. Mr. Calwell was going to con-
vert munition-factories into refrigerator-
plants “for the working-class.” Stalin
was adjuring his followers to study
American capitalism. Everybody
was Russia’s friend. Germany was a
rubbish-heap. Even the idea that the
Americans were a warmongering con-
spiracy was not yet born.
War was “out.” When the Americans
tried to keep the base at Manus, Labor,
and particularly Dr. Evatt —the president
of the glorious, all-powerful arbiters of
the millennium, the United Nations, at
one stage—said smugly, “No, thank you.”
When the Menzies Government came
into power at the end of 1949 defence-
establishments, outside a centralised core
which was fast disappearing, were almost
demobilised. Inter alia, the great munition
organisation at St. Mary’s, near Sydney,
was dispersed into many hands —
“scrambled” (to use a Calwell term)
almost irrecoverably.
When the Menzies Government had
been in power a while the world atmos-
phere had changed. The Russians had
handed China and all the arms of which
they were the custodians in Manchuria to
the Chinese Communists, double-crossing
Chiang Kai-shek and the Western Allies.
The Korean affair began to blow-up, and
finally culminated in a treacherous and
illegal attack on the South Koreans. It was
obvious before long that Russia had re-
placed Germany as the enemy of the West.
The military, authorities advising the
major Western countries began to
prophesy that war on a world scale could,
and possibly would, mature within three
years. This, it should be emphasised, was
military, not political, opinion and it was
based on logical signs. It forced the
Western Powers, including Australia, to
begin to rearm on a three-year basis.
Among other projects, the Common-
wealth Government would have been
more than willing to quietly reassemble
the munitions organisation at St. Mary’s,
near Sydney, which had been built up
on a vast scale during the war. It was
certainly desirable that, if it were feasible,
it should be taken over, but the division
of it into slices for the benefit of private
enterprise (which Labor professedly
hates) by a Labor Government of which
Dr. Evatt was one of the most senior
members, made this impracticable with-
out use of the defence powers of the Con-
stitution, which it was difficult to exercise
in peace. Resumption would have taken
a long time.
The Government decided to forget the
past and establish a new plant at a cost
of £23-million, against an annual defence
expenditure of about £l9O million.
Labor nagged at • the matter every
year. A couple of newspapers irked
about credit-restriction began to flog
it. Last month Mr. Menzies, some
comment having been rightly made by the
Auditor-General on costs, defended him-
self, the pith of what he had to say being:
“It would have been a strange act of
irresponsibility if the Government,
without reason , had rejected the Chiefs-
of-Staff’s advice that the factory was of
first priority.”
On September 23 the Melbourne “Age”
published a letter in which Major-General
S. F. Legge, formerly Master-General of
Ordnance, set-out the facts reasonably
concerning the sale of the factory after
the war, and added that “after exhaustive
examination by the Department of
Defence Production, the Director-General
of Works, the Defence-production Plan-
ning Committee and the Defence Com-
mittee” all recommended (a) that the old
factory be repossessed and reconditioned ;
( b ) that, if necessary, the civilian occupa-
tions which had taken over the facilities
piecemeal should be given alternative
accommodation in adjacent areas ; that a
new factory be not built, since the cost Of
building a new one would be about twice
the cost of reconditioning the old one.”
No doubt everybody in the Govern-
ment would have agreed that this was the
proper course —if possible in the circum-
stances. But the decisions were only first-
line advice—secondary conditions had to
be considered by the Government depart-
ments involved as to compensation, as to
whether alternative accommodation could
be provided (which was very doubtful),
and as to the cost and legal aspects;
also, as to whether the scheme could be
fitted into the programme of urgency
which seemed needed.
These were matters which were outside
the realm of those who made the recom-
mendations and who were concerned more
with what was desirable, if practicable,
than with whether their recommendations
could, in fact, be carried out to fit into
a programme of urgency.
General Legge, in a letter moderately
expressed and unsensational, put his view
that in deciding to take no chances with
the time-factor under all the circum-
stances, and starting de novo, there has
been “gross’ and inexcusable waste of
public money, not... .on the advice of
the Chiefs-of-Staff, as the Prime Minis-
ter seems to imply, but in fact contrary
to the recommendations made.”
There is nothing in either the P.M.’s
statement or in General Legge’s to suggest
that recommendations were made by the
. Chiefs-of-Staff.
Out of the initial conditions of urgency,
with the view that war was only three
years off, no doubt extravagance
developed, and initial extravagance is
always the breeder of future extrava-
gance. That is something that always
has to be faced in war-emergency
measures.
General Legge’s knowledge was of only
one stage of the proceedings, leading to
the official decision as to what should
be done. But he was entitled to his
opinion, which nevertheless could be far
from fair or valid. His was not the respon-
sibility for the job and for the ultimate
safety of the country.
He could not, in his position, have had
the inner secret knowledge which the
Government had at the time of the world
situation and of how much it seemed
necessary to provide an ammunition-
filling station immediately, regardless of
cost. With this part of the issue the
Auditor-General, who is only concerned
with expenditure factors, also could not
have been acquainted.
All sides, Government, the General and
the Auditor-General, seem to have been
fair and legitimate—as far as they were
able to speak—in their statements. What
is not legitimate is the outrageous dis-
tortion and misuse of Major-General
Legge’s moderate letter by the sensational
press pandering to the Leftist-propaganda
view and the design of those concerned
with the weakening of Australian defence
in the Communist interest.
Even this aspect is overshadowed by
the performance of the Labor party,
headed by those who were members of
the Chifley-Evatt Government. That
Government threw tens of millions of
pounds’-worth of war material into the
hands of speculators and spivs after the
war without a thought, and now has the
impudence to charge other people with
extravagance in respect of the replace-
ment of vital defence facilities which they
themselves destroyed or gave away almost
for nothing.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
TEXT of a passage from “Education,”
official organ of the N.S.W.
Teachers’ Federation:
Three proposals by the Secondary
Teachers’ Association concerning spelling
in secondary schools were endorsed by the
executive last month.
They were:
That methuds of teeching speling in
sekundry skules be at the discreshun of the
teecher.
That the undew emfasis plased on the
teeching of speling at the sekundry levul
is not in the best intrests of the sekundry
skule.
That a ferther effert be maid to have
the Departmunt reveiw its poiisy in the
matter of the Leeving Certifikate speling
test with a veiw to its abandonmunt.
No; it wasn’t really spelt like that,
but if it had been, I wonder how
many secondary-teachers would have
been hypocrite enough to shudder. —
“Swelpme.”
♦2* ♦> *2*
“Tabba”: Speaking of a young couple
who have been seeing a lot of each other,
I asked my own girl-friend if she knew
when they'd be getting married. “Oh,”
she replied, “they don’t plan to marry,
they have decided to stay friends.”
“Uramao”: New Zealand’s Social
Security Department is scratching its head
and wondering: this year’s report shows
that 22 women draw their divi. who have
reached or passed the century. Of the
154 pensioners from 95, to 99 143 are
women. No men are included in the
centenarians ; maybe there are 100-year-
olds outside the scheme ; maybe women
reach the century because men don’t.
❖ *:*
“Allan B.”: The latest axe-happy mob
has chopped down the old memorial palm-
trees in the grounds of St. Barnabas’
Church, Broadway, Sydney. The trees
were planted each in memory of young
“If she's not careful she'll be getting herself in that
‘ Confidential' magazine."
men of the church who died in the First
War. It’s bad enough when councils go
tree-chopping, but you’d think a church
wouid have a bit more respect for
memorial palms.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Corio”: The district hospital at Gee-
long (Vic.) is to have a hostess to talk
and serve refreshments to relatives of
patients.
*»♦ *:♦
“Narumee”: Big-business competition
has reached our suburb with half-a-
dozen spanking new petrol-stations in
the shopping-street, two more nearing
completion, offering customers free tins of
sewing-machine oil and comic masks for
the kids. But one has caused gloom and
consternation among reluctant gardeners,
stripping them of their best excuse for not
mowing the lawn or clipping the hedge:
cars are washed-down and vacuumed-out
as part of the free service!
♦> *>
“Roomy”: Theatre-foyer before the
opening performance of the Melbourne
Gilbert and Sullivan season. “Now for
goodness’ sake, Clara,” hissed the woman
behind me, “don’t go telling Harold how
we saw ‘The Mikado’ thirty years ago ; he
doesn’t know we were born then! ”
❖ *i*
“E. & 0.E.”: The Junior Chamber of
Commerce in Launceston (Tas.) ran
a courtesy-week for motorists; each
lunch-hour they cruised around searching.
Monday, a woman got the reward ; “her
could not be faulted, she
obeyed all traffic-rules and showed
courtesy and consideration for other
drivers, as well as for pedestrians.”
Tuesday, acclaimed a second woman
driver, this time from the country.
Wednesday, no one was found worthy.
Thursday, a man won. Friday, another
blank day ; and as even hopes of courtesy
must conform to the five-day week, there
we must end.
♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ *>
“Doynest”: A new Melbourne
clothing-store decided to give away a
bottle of champagne with every suit sold
in its first fortnight. The wine firm told
him everything would be all right, and
three policemen friends who helped fold
circulars advertising the stunt raised no
objections ; then, on a charge of having
sold liquor without a licence, the business-
man was fined the minimum—2s quid
—and had 27 bottles confiscated by
police. If policemen and firms in the
trade don’t know the trickier points of the
liquor-law, what chance has the ordinary
citizen?
PROGRAMME-NOTE
“Actors' equity (Sydney) decided on a 24-
hour stoppage ior October 15 in protest against
lifting of restrictions on importation of
TV-material.”
The end of restrictions on. film and the
like
Being -imported as TV-material
May cause twelve-hundred actors to
strike —
The position has been described . as
“very serial.”
A strike of actors constitutes a record
Full of suspense and pregnant silences,
A thrilling evocation of the unspoken
word,
A mystery whose solution none can
guess.
Though some would say the gentry who
contract
To raise the hometown talent up from
zero
Put on a subtler and more startling act
When Syndication proves to be the
hero.
But audiences, whether radio or TV,
Bored by these documentary-
controversials,
Will say, “It all comes down to L.s.d.” —-
And feel more reconciled to the
commercials.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


YOU can depend on American news-
magazines to make with the meta-
phor. The review of Patrick White’s
Voss in “Time” says: “His style is
excellent for describing the shifting
pastel colors of the bush but proves
too rich an instrument for reproduc-
ing the leg-iron clank of Australian
speech.” —“Gyro Joe.”
■*s*■ ♦J*
“Sunray”: Remember when the
butchers used to decoi’ate their shop-
windows with flower-patterns, intri-
cate designs, etc., cut out of the skin
of half-sheep and large joints ? Trays
of mincemeat and sausage-meat were
artistically piled, sausages hung in
festoons from hook to hook across the
top of the window, and the chops
chased each other up and down the
slope of the display. All gone now,
though there are many shops where
bracken remains favorite in spite of
the new plastic variety ; and I was
pleased the other morning to see our
butcher decorating his shop with two
glorious bunches of well-grown mint,
arranging them in glasses of water —
large glasses, bearing the stamp of the
U.L.V.A.!
“D.J.G.”: Finding an expensive wrist-
watch in a city park in the lunch-hour I
waited, and sure enough a young man
returned and began searching. It struck
me as curious that the owner hadn’t
bothered to have his name and address, or
at least his phone-number, engraved on
the back. Judging from the “Lost and
Found” ads. in the papers, few watch-
owners take this obvious precaution.
*£<
“Bicky”: The Duke of Edinburgh is
not far from the Queen’s Arms, while
Prince Charles is some little distance
away ; but hotels bearing these titles are
all within a square mile of the Melbourne
suburb of St. Kilda.
❖ ♦> *>
“Footling”; Maybe Sydney transport
was putting its best foot forward, but on
the Monday that trams stopped not run-
ning up Pitt Street 10 single-decker buses
passed me while I walked from King
Street to Hunter Street around three in the
"I 'm running a bit late—the show opens this afternoon ."
afternoon. Waiting for a tram, you used
to feel in danger of being arrested for
loitering with intent.
❖ ♦> *
“Sevenelms”: Chided by spouse on
too great conservatism in dress, I was able
to retort that before even Prince Teddy
and Lord Louis were in on it I wore suede
footwear; in 1914. I could have added
that the Army then deduced correctly that
•it would prevent boots being worn-out
on non-military occasions.
♦l* *> ❖
“Lorna Doone”: Come winter, come
summer, a sad-looking character trails
up into the city in the early morning. He
looks as though he sleeps on the banks
of the river and is on his way to try to
find something to eat. At the window of
the Christian Science shop he stands for
some time gazing at the books and texts.
A friend, intrigued, wondered why he
stood and looked at the same thing for
so long each day. So she looked herself,
and found that a page of the books on
show is turned over nightly.
“Eejaypee”: One of Brisbane’s depart-
ment-stores has a window-display of
dress-materials. One window contains a
rayon labelled with a beautiful big sign:
“Product of Barcelona.” As a touch of
local color a couple of pounds of nuts
are scattered about the floor —Brazil
nuts.
♦♦♦
“Sister Ellell”: “Croid’s” wonderment
(B. 18/9/’57) at Women crying! Why,
it’s the greatest hydraulic system in the
world. Normally Ido not have recourse
to this relief very often, but at the flicks
I’m No. 1 starter. It’s so embarrassing
too, and hopeless to tell one’s self that
it’s only a picture. At the screening of
“Never Take No for an Answer” I got
away to a flying start five minutes after
the show started, and the further the little
boy went with his donkey, the ailing
Violetta, the wetter the lapels of my suit
became —they took two days to dry out.
As for the man who escorted me, I’ve
never heard from him since.
❖ ❖ ❖
/COMPETITION, private art-shows, and
free afternoon-teas may be bringing
bankers out from behind their mahogany
(shouldn’t that be “cedar”?) desks (B.
25/9/’57), but the idea, I take it, is to get
the public into their banking offices.
Here’s a suggestion: all branches have a
book, known as the Register of Unpaid
Cheques, and it might be a good idea if
that particular book, and the ledgers too
if you like, were made available in the
banking-chambers for perusal by the


public. “Stickybeakism” must be ex-
ploited. Banks are now much like gold-
fish-bowls, because of plateglass, and
they might as well show the lot. I notice
one bank has opened a branch in a city
emporium. Some are already established
in hotel-lounges, on board ship and so
on . . . What about receiving-agencies for
savings-banks in the elevators of big
buildings and the provision of change-
facilities in those intriguing underground
establishments now so discreetly known
as Comfort Stations? The demand for
coppers in exchange for a shilling might
lead to all sorts of good business.—
“Ceg.”
♦♦♦ ❖ ❖
“R.E.8.”: An elderly cleric with a
faraway expression drove an ancient
bomb towards a busy intersection in St.
"I think coral-rose Would have toned-in better with the guttering ."
George’s Road, Northcote (Vic.), at five
in the evening ; and a line of cars pulled
up with screeching brakes while the cleric
in the bomb ambled blissfully past them,
on their left!
*t+
“D.W.”: The Netherlands Information
Service says the Netherlands Parliament
is the cheapest in the world. The cost
a year is a head of population
compared with 4s. 6d. in France, 4s. 2d.
in Belgium and Sweden, 2s. 7d. in
U.S.A., 2s. in Italy, Is. 2d. in England
and Is. in Switzerland. There is no
reference to Australia, but the latest Com-
monwealth Year Book states that the
cost of Commonwealth and State Parlia-
mentary Governments is 9s. 9d. a head.
♦♦♦ • »!♦
“Erneran”: I wasn’t surprised to see
an ad. for “an aggressive saleswoman” in
an American periodical, but it really
shook me up when I read that her stock-
in-trade would be burial-plots.
♦♦♦ ♦>
“Miss M.”: After Miss Smith’s
marriage, we can usually remember to
address her as Mrs. Robinson, but we
can never remember that the widowed
Mrs. Tones has remarried and is now
Mrs. Brown. Some years after the Todds’
wedding, they visited the town where she
had lived with her first husband, and No,
2 became a bit terse hearing his wife
addressed on all sides as “Mrs. Kaye.”
Prize effort was that of a neighbor:
“Good-morning, Mr. Kaye. How’s Mrs.
Todd today?”
■£+
“Tock Emma”: As the busiest spot for
suburban motor-traffic in peak-hours I
nominate the corner of Murdoch Street
and Bannerman Street, Cremorne, Sydney.
A recent tally gave 718 cars passing in
35 minutes —over 20 a minute; say,
one every three seconds.
“Doric”: An office-party was being
arranged and, just at the critical moment,
the boss was taken seriously ill. “Do
you think we ought to put it off?” asked
one of the committee. “Oh, no,” answered
the chairman. “If anything should happen
to the old boy, we can always turn it into
a wake.”
*X* ♦> ♦♦♦
“Croid”: If he lost a pencil, he always
had another in a different pocket; when
his toothbrush wore out, there was a new
one to replace it in the bathroom-
cupboard. He used to get around with a
very attractive girl, but lately I saw him
with a different one. “What happened to
the girl I used to see you with?” I asked.
“Another chap pinched her,” he said,
“but, of course, I always carry a spare!”
A CUE FOR CUPID
“Women are not naturally attracted to the
bulging muscle as some physically-minded men
seem to think. Sometimes a funny little
mannerism will do more for a conquest of love
than all the physical attributes.” — Woman's
magazine.
Don’t think, just because you’ve big
muscles
(Though they’re certainly handy in
tussles)
You can conquer a dame with corpuscles
Of a vividly rubicund tint;
That you hairy chest simply must thrill
' her.
She’ll see in you more the gorilla
Than her notion of nice lady-killer.
Your steel, alas, fails to strike flint,
The biceps you flex,
And which at your command
Can be made quite convulsive.
Your chance with her wrecks,
For it’s likely she’ll brand *
You as something repulsive.
Time was, when he-men were the fancy
Of Pauline and Peggy and Nancy ;
In those days the weed and the pansy
Were scorned in the garden of gals.
They liked muscular men who could toss
’em
Around at a hop like a possum.
Such blokes, they’d be certain, would
boss ’em
In future domestic corrals.
And, strange though it may
Seem these days, when the Sex
Deems equality vital,
They liked it that way
When they aimed to annex
The term “Mrs.” as title!
Their erstwhile appeal being routed,
The Samsons and Sandows are outed.
In their place there has recently sprouted
The swain who depends for success
On the lift of one brow as he’s talking;
His wrist-flick as meat he is. forking ;
The cute way he looks as he’s gawking
At something; his mode of address.
And so, for the one
Who would draw girls galore
Here’s a potent directive:
Cock your mannerism-gun,
For a smirk will count more
Than a strong arm protective.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Doynest”: We had gathered from her
audible confidences to the woman along-
side her that her husband’s name was
George, and that he was “very handy
about the house,” so no one was sur-
prised that GeoFge was “marvellous at
making pickles.” But the whole compart-
ment sat up and took notice when she
declared: “My toenails are torturing me:
I must get George to cut them tonight.”
“Does George always'cut your toenails?”
the other woman asked. “Of course,” she
said, “George cuts all the family’s toenails.
He’s very handy about the house.” By
George, he is!
♦♦♦ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Greenways”: Resident of our street,
arriving home from the office on the same
bus as his wife, got out to find an
elderly gentleman, loaded down with two
heavy suitcases, struggling to get on. He
helped him on, and he and his wife
strolled home. They opened the front
door, to find the place ransacked. By the
time they had recovered from their shock,
telephoned the police, got out the car, and
located the bus, somebody had helped the
elderly gentleman, and his two suitcases,
off.
♦I«
“J.K.D.”: Despite medical warnings
against the increasing use of tranquillis-
ing, pep and other kinds of pills, 1 doubt
if there are really any more on the market
now than there were 60 years ago. In a
Dublin newspaper of 1890 at least 50 per
cent, of the advertisements were devoted
to publicising pills of all kinds, including
lines guaranteed to calm and restore jaded
nerves and to restore virility. There were
also some which, in one single action,
removed diseases from every part of the
body, including liver, lungs and kidneys.
One advertiser claimed his pills would
“gently wash away kidney- and gall-
stones. and ensure permanent good
health.”
❖ ❖ *>
“Metax”: My letter declined by The
Bulletin because it arrived unstamped
with sevenpence to pay appeared in my
letterbox in a brown-paper envelope
bearing the ominous message:
The surcharge on this letter must be
collected before delivery. A refusal on the
part of the person to whom the article is
now directed to pay the amount involved
renders him liable to a penalty of forty
shillings. In case of such refusal, the
letters should be forwarded without delay
to the Head Office with a report of the
matter.
After several days the postman was
cornered and sevenpence pressed upon
him. He accepted thankfully but had no
record, mental or otherwise, of the
delivery or the debt!
*i* *i*
“Quid rides”: Re “Fell Maken’s” par.
on the indefiniteness of Australian speech
(B. 7/8/’57), how’s this: “If Mr. X who
sits for this constituency should consent to
stand again and run he will probably have
a walkover”? The percentage of failures
in English at the last Intermediate exam,
is easily understood by anyone who saw
the school work of any pupil, when
repetitive phrases, adverbs used instead of
adjectives, etc., go uncorrected.
“Bagot”: Only just past the half-
century mark, I must be growing really
old-fashioned: when I saw him lolling at
his desk in the busy office, rolling a fag
and drawling to the senior pay-clerk who
had arrived with the weekly envelope:
“Shove it down there, mate,” I couldn’t
help a shudder. Maybe because it seemed
that it was only yesterday I was a 15-year-
old office-boy.
♦r*
“Uramao”: Canterbury University
College, N.Z., has received through the
will of the late James Logie, registrar to
the college for 40 years, twenty pieces of
Greek pottery ranging from the early
Bronze Age about 2000 b.c. to the “red-
figure” style of the fifth century b.c. An
Attic black-figure painting represents
Heracles fighting Geryoh, the three-headed
three-bodied monster whose cattle
Heracles raided. Another scene repre-
sents five men on stilts. A Bronze Age
representation is of a tomb-group from
Ayia Paraskevi excavated by the Mel-
bourne Cyprus expedition of 1955 ; the
only group in which the excavators found
stone implements. If the price of replace-
ment tea-cups goes up any further,
excavation may_ become a practical
industry.
♦2* t*
“Miss M.”: Army nursing-Sisters,
being officers, were supposed to assist
with maintenance of gpod order and dis-
cipline. It wasn’t easy to rebuke troops
who usually had one’s sympathy; also,
if one was young and had little dragon in
one’s make-up, it taxed the imagination
to distil acid strong enough to bite
through hides toughened by years of
exposure to sergeant-majors. One's most
caustic efforts were apt to evoke a
nostalgic “Sis, you remind me of my
mother.” This from a contemporary was
bad enough, but how much worse when
he added, proudly, “Wonderful straight
shot with a saucepan, Mum is.”


POLITICAL POINTS
Streamlining of the Federal public
service by a committee composed of an
overseas business-consultant, a local
business-consultant, a representative of
the Taxpayers’ Association, a business-
man, a judge and a professor of public
administration is suggested by S. M.
Gilmour, secretary of the Victorian
Employers’ Federation.
. • •
Increase from £3O million to £35
million in the War Service Homes grant
this year is expected to mean that 1500
more homes will be financed under the
scheme than in 1956-57. It should also
mean a reduction in the waiting-time for
loans.
• •
Angry compilation of the statistics of
the A.C.T.U. Congress by J. P. Maynes:
only nine of 229 agenda items dealt with ;
only 17 hours’ sitting-time of the four-
and-a-half-day congress ; cost £20,000.
Maynes, who is Federal president of
the Clerks’ Union, was convinced the
congress was Red-controlled, so it isn't
surprising that the Clerks’ annual con-
ference decided almost unanimously to
continue its affiliation with the Demo-
cratic Labor party.
• •
Sir Percy Spender, Australian Ambassa-
dor in Washington since 1951, becomes a
Justice of the International Court at the
Hague on January 1, 1958 ; he topped the
poll in a U.N. General Assembly election
for the vacancy. The post carries a
salary of about £9OOO a year, plus allow-
ances, and there’s a nine-year tenure.
Decision on Spender’s successor in
can’t now be long delayed.
• •
Bill Wentworth qualifies for a
morocco-bound volume of Hansard with
blank pages for this thought:— :
Most of us, including myself, speak too
long and repeat ourselves too much.
• - •
Britain’s Labor party, like its Australian
counterpart, doesn’t seem to know
exactly where it stands on nationalisation.
The executive wants to bring off another
Sted Grab if returned to office next
election and also proposes to nationalise
long-distance road-transport. In addition,
it wants to get inside some other indus-
tries by buying their shares on the Stock
Exchange.
At the annual conference at Brighton
the share-buying part of the programme
came in for hot criticism from tradition-
alists who wanted to know “why ‘nation-
alisation’ had become a dirty word,” and
why the party was abandoning its
Socialist principles. Gaitskell told the
critics that with re-nationalising steel,
establishing public-ownership of rented
houses, repealing the Rent Act and
bringing-in a half-pay pension plan the
next Labor Government would have
more than enough to keep it busy for the
first two or three years. Furthermore,
that the electors were not yet fully
educated in Socialism. What he probably
meant was that the party would have to
soft-pedal on socialisation if it wanted
to win an election. Which is just what
the A.L.P. has been doing.
• •
Defending his Government against
charges that it had allowed its public
service to grow to huge proportions
Prime Minister Menzies claimed that the
increase since 1949 has been only 16,000,
making the present score 212,000. He said
that in that period the number employed
under the Public Service Act increased
from 154,000 to 159,000 and the number
not under the Act (e.g., Commonwealth
Bank, Commonwealth Railways and
T.A.A.) from 41,000 to 53,000.
The increase in the first category was
more than covered by the increase in
the number of P.M.G. employees
(up 14,000 in the past eight years);
other employment under the. Act has, he
said, dropped by 10,000. The Prime
Minister added that, excluding rural
employees and domestic servants, the
Commonwealth employs only 7.6 per
cent, of all wage- and salary-earners.
That may be so, but it’s a monty
that they take home a darn sight more
than 7.6 per cent, of the wages and
salaries. Heads of departments, deputy-
heads, assistant-heads and so on have
been given munificent increases in recent
years, and their pay now compares more
than favorably with men holding compar-
able jobs in private industry. The advan-
tage continues well down the salary-scale,
and when conditions, privileges and
superannuation benefits are considered
it’s no wonder Federal public servants
are beginning to look like a privileged
class.
Melbourne Tramways Board has come
up with a loss of £1,077,425 for its latest
year compared with a mere £713,501 ip
the previous term, and chairman Risson,
predicting bankruptcy, says the losses are
due to providing transport below cost.
Private buses in Melbourne operate pro-
fitably at 60 per cent, of the fares charged
by the board; and private traders don’t
run at a loss. They go out of. business if
they’re not wanted.
• •
Already Canberra has given a lead to
Sydney and Melbourne on the late-
shopping front, and now, while
entrenched conservatives in the unions try
to stojrthis service to the public in the big
cities, the national capital’s policy is to be
examined by the Joint Parliamentary
Committee on the A.C.T. The committee
won’t be overawed by the noisy bluster
of a section of the Shop Assistants’ Union,
and its findings should be useful as pre-
senting an unbiased view of an important
domestic problem.
• •
“A.U.A.”: Back in Adelaide (from
Sydney) to see the Port Adelaide-Nor-
wood football-final former S.A. Premier
Lionel Hill, who played for Norwood
in the 1907 final, revived memories of his
18 years in S.A. politics. He entered
the State Parliament in 1915 as Labor
M.H.A. for East Torrens, but resigned in
1917 to contest the Senate election, which
he lost. He re-entered the Assembly in
1918 as member for Port Pirie and held
the seat until 1933, when he became
Agent-General in London. Taking over
the Premiership when Jack Gunn was
appointed- Migration and Development
Commissioner, he was in office for eight
months before defeat in 1927. Labor won
the 1930 elections and Hill formed his
second Government, which had a three-
year term full of faction-fighting because
of Hill’s association with the Premiers’
Plan. After two years in London as S.A.
Agent-General, Hill was appointed chair-
man of the A.C.T. Industrial Board.
Since 1943 he has lived in retirement in
Sydney.
• •
“Mugga Way”: If any crows fly from
Canberra they can find the ocean over
the hills less than 100 miles away—a
distance that was regarded as adequate
defence against any enemy guns when the
site was picked nearly half a century ago.
But it takes Canberra motorists at least
four hours to reach the nearest beach over
the unsatisfactory roads that have been
the cause of complaint for many years.
Hence there’s a good deal of appreciation
of the Government’s decision (B.
2/10/’57) to contribute a third of the
cost of sealing the roads to Bateman’s
Bay and Cooma. The South Coast is the
natural outlet to the sea not only for
Canberra but for the Southern Table-
lands and Riverina, and it should get a
useful boost from the decision. Canberra’s
holiday amenities for its citizens aren’t
great, whatever they may offer the tourist,
and the move is a good one.


Khrushchev’s next Note to the West:
“Another ‘peep-peep’ out of you
and”
• •
The president of the N.S.W. Rural
Bank has often urged the easing of
credit-restrictions. No one can say he
doesn’t practise what he preaches.
• •
The Nicklin Government’s strength in
the Queensland Parliament was increased
to 42 as a result of Saturday’s Gregory
by-election. The rest of the House is
composed of 20 A.L.P. members, 11
Q.L.P. and 2 Independents.
Labor badly wanted to win Gregory;
victory would have put its former leader
John Duggan back into Parliament again,
and it would have done something to
restore the prestige of the party.
• - •
The only unions which could muster a
hundred or more marchers each for the
once-great Eight-hour [Six-hour] Day
procession in Sydney were the Wharfies,
the Seamen and the Boilermakers, who
carried the main Communist propa-
ganda. The A.R.U. and public-transport
unions rounded-up only 53 (including
Eddie Ward), the Engineers 46, the
Amalgamated Printers 32 and the A.W.U.
seven! Headed by mounted police armed
with lances (by courtesy of the war-
mongering Cahill Government) the pro-
cession exhibited the aspirations of the
Sydney toilers as (a) ban the atom-bomb,
and ( b ) introduce the 35-hour-week —in
that order.
• •
Government Senators who voted
against amending the Commonwealth
Grants Commission Bill will find them-
selves in a peculiar position when the
banking legislation is brought down later
this month. It has been stated authorita-
tively that many of the powers in the
banking bills will be left to executive
action, which is the very thing against
which the Senators were revolting.
• •
Nasser’s Foreign Minister Mahmoud
Fawzi told the U.N. General Assembly
that Egypt would not tolerate “that even
a fingertip of Syria be hurt, or a hair of
Syria be ruffled by any aggression.” The
Syrians will now be able to sleep soundly
at night—provided they don’t start
remembering how the Egyptians won the
cross-country race in the Sinai Desert
last year.
• •
Increased health-benefits under the
Federal health-scheme are being urged
by the B.M.A. The association considers
that both medical- and hospital-benefit
allowances are too low and that some of
the grounds for exclusion from benefits
should be reviewed. It proposes that
the present scale of payments should be
increased to give a cover of at least 75
per cent, of the average fees charged,
and it intends to ask the Government to
subsidise medical-benefit organisations to
enable them to carry persons with
WHAT TIME DOES THE
BALLOON GO UP?
chronic illnesses at standard rates of
contributions.
' • •
Book-censorship may be in for a reform
at last. Senator Henty, Minister for
Customs, had a chat with the Literature
Censorship Board and the Appeal Censor
on Friday on “aspects of an overall
review of the existing procedures on
lierature censorship.” He asked the
board to suggest means of overhauling
the present list of banned books. It
might be a good idea to start off by
publishing the list. Apparently that’s
banned, too. «
• •
N. S. Wales Mines Minister Nott can
hardly be called a lucky motorist. Last
week he arrived back from a country
trip, left his car in front of his office
and came out later to find it had fallen
victim to the towaway truck. His
plaintive “Surely a Minister has a right
to park his car outside his office without
getting it towed away” didn’t evoke much
sympathy from private motorists. But
when thieves pinched his car from a
repair-station, on Friday night and
abandoned it after stripping two wheels
public reaction was different. Even
Ministers don’t deserve that.
The old gag about the painter’s house
being the shabbiest in the street and the
plumber’s the one with the leakiest taps
was given a new twist in the S.A.
Assembly last week when Fred Walsh,
Labor member for West Torrens, said
the worst lift in Adelaide was the one
in the Mercantile Building, which houses
the Government department responsible
for the inspection of lifts.
• •
If Russian scientists’ claims that the
launching of the first man-made satellite
will be followed within a few years by
landings on the moon, will that mean that
the earth’s satellite will become the next
Russian satellite?
■\
• •
Under Dr. Evatt’s impartial tutelage
the Federal ‘Labor caucus has arranged
for a “fact-finding” committee to inter-
view unionists and others to convict the
Government of extravagance in the
erection of St. Mary’s munition-filling
plant. It will, however, be understood
that no unionist must produce any facts
in favor of the Government. If one
should do his union will deal with him
suitably. “Muckraking” would be a
better phrase than “fact-finding.”
• •
Nine months ago, in an attempt to
check the pilfering of meat, patrolmen
of the Metropolitan Security Service
were introduced into Homebush
Abattoirs. The chairman of the Meat
Board reported an immediate improve-
ment on the pilfering front, but the
abattoirs employees began a series of
strikes and go-slow campaigns directed
against the employment of the M.S.S.
A few months ago there were rumors
of a secret undertaking given by the
N. S. Wales Government to the unions
that the patrolmen would shortly be with-
drawn. This was denied by both the
Premier and the Minister responsible for
the abattoirs. Last week the guards were
withdrawn. The chairman’s explanation
is that the M.S.S. contract had expired.
'• •
“Stromlo”: There’s a lot of speculation
in Canberra about the pending appoint-
ment of a National Capital Commissioner
—and some hope that, while showing a
knowledge of Australian culture and Aus-
tralian needs, he’ll curb officials who are
still trying to build a town like the one
they left many years ago. The job will
probably be a thankless one, with too
many cooks wanting to stir the broth.
• •
Lewis Burne is persisting, as president
of the Victorian Employers’ Federation,
in his campaign to get the Federal public
service reviewed by a body of experts.
He has won such warm support in Mel-
bourne for his campaign that he now
proposes a board with an overseas chair-
man and continuous reviews of public-
service growth and operations.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Redmond Michael Nolan, known to his
friends in the silk department of Mel-
bourne Law Courts as “Red,” retired last
week after 43 years at the Bar, 30 of them
as a prosecutor, and lately senior Crown
Prosecutor. He became a prosecutor
because he felt it suited his fiery style ;
in his earlier years he had been repeatedly
threatened with committal for contempt
by judges before whom he appeared. As
a prosecutor he was also liable to get up
his Irish on behalf of the police if he
thought they had been unfairly attacked.
Now he is 70, not in the best of health,
and when his friends ask him what he
intends to do replies in a word: Rest.
• •
Dr. lan Wark, chief of the'Division of
Industrial Chemistry, C.5.1.R.0., has
been elected president of the Royal Aus-
tralian Chemical Institute for 1957-58.
• •
Gerald Colin McKellar, who was
elected chairman of the N. S. Wales
branch of the Country party in June
this year, is a 54-year-old grazier with
firm roots in the Gilgandra-Dubbo dis-
trict. His mother was the first C.W.A.
president at Gilgandra, in 1936 he raised
and led a troop of Light Horse there (he
finished War II as a major in ordnance),
an occasional twinge in the right shoulder
reminds him of his polo-playing days with
the Gilgandra team in the 1920’s (he also
played tennis and cricket, but bowls is
his game now), and he’s been associated
with Country-party affairs since 1926.
An elder of the Presbyterian Church,
Gilgandra, vice-president of the Gilgandra
P. and A. Association, chairman of the
Gilgandra branch of the Country party,
chairman of the Dubbo committee of
management, chairman of the Castlereagh
(State) electoral council and of the
COUNTRY PARTY :
Lawson (Federal) electoral council, he is
also a .director of thg Dubbo P.P.
Board and chairman of Gilgandra News-
papers Pty., Ltd.
• •
The general public began to learn about
Adolph Basser’s princely gifts to charity in
1949, when he gave £50,000 to the Royal
Australian College of Physicians for
research. Then he established a £lOO,OOO
trust-fund, the income from which was to
be used to help public hospitals, promote
education, and relieve poverty in the State
of New-South Wales, followed by £50,000
to Sydney University in 1954 to build an
electronic brain. In 1956 he gave the
university another £50,000 to enlarge the
e.b., and recently he gave St. Vincent’s
Hospital Centenary Fund £25,000; the
money will go to build an “Adolph
Basser Ward,” which may be used by
members of the Jewish community.
Such sums of money, handed-over by
private citizens to competent bodies, can
hardly remain unpublicised. But, over the
years, Adolph Basser has made many
smaller gifts—to most men’s way of
thinking, pretty substantial ones —which
have received no publicity. A Bulletin.
man who called on him at his office in
Saunders’ jewellery store at Railway
Square, Sydney, asked him about some of
these other benefactions. The 70-year-old
philanthropist seemed reluctant to discuss
them, but finally mentioned contributing
regularly to the Melbourne Lord Mayor s
Fund —“two or three thousand a year” —
financial backing for cancer-research at
St. Vincent’s, another £5OOO to Sydney
University for a smaller “brain,” and
trifles of that sort. Stocky, modest, and
with a twinkle in his eye, he was wearing
a Legacy badge—the £lOOO variety. He
has been buying them, he admitted, for
several years.
A C.B.E. and honorary Doctor of
Science, he was born in Cracow, Poland,
came to Australia as a young man, and
became an optometrist. He bought
Saunders, Ltd., in 1927, on the death of
A. Saunders. Always a lover of racing, he
became an owner when he felt he could
afford it: and, as racing men know, he
bought a colt by Midstream out of a
Magpie mare called Gazza, which he
called Delta.
• •
Hal Saunders, who has done —or, more
correctly, is still doing—the lyrics for the
all-Australian musical play “Nex’ Town,”
which will have its premiere at Sydney
Independent on October 30, knows the
song-and-lyric game backwards; he’s
been minting both tunes and words for a
couple of decades. A native of Armidale
(N.S.W.) and the son of a sawmiller, he
knocked around the Pilliga scrub in his
youth, was articled to a solicitor, then
gave away torts and settlements to study
music, a legacy of which has been 15
years as musical-director for H.M.V., a
swag of background-music, and over 100
LYRICS
songs published. In 1932 he began feed-
ing the lusty infant Radio with scripts—
that was with 2BL and 2FC before the
A.B.C. took them over. Then to 2GB
as a full-time script-writer, specialising n
serials. He had a good spell on the horror
stuff, until one night he clawed his way
up out of a nightmare in which his charac-
ters started menacing him. So he gave it
away and took to the theatre, becoming
assistant-producer to Humphrey Bishop.
The stage and the ether-waves . have
divided his time ever since. Ten years
ago Hal founded the Australian Song-
writers and Composers’ Association.
• •
“Maitri”: Sydney is about to have
another visit from that gallant old lady
—she’s been called “Scotland’s greatest
ambassadress” —Dame Flora Macleod
of Macleod. Her previous Australian
tour, in 1954, was a triumph, and it
wasn’t only Macleods and other clans-
men who thought so: dyed-in-the-wool
Australian Sassenachs, without a drop
of the guid bluid, fell for her as hard'
as any Scot.
Daughter of the late Sir Herbert
Macleod of Macleod, and widow of
Hubert Walter (“The Times” family),
she succeeded her father as Chief; for
the first time in Macleod history there
was no male heir. Since her husband’s
death in 1933, she has taken up residence
at her old home, Dunvegan Castle, Isle of
Skye, and, by deed poll, has resumed
her maiden name. In parenthesis, let it
be made clear that Dame Flora is Chief,
not chief tainess, of Clan Macleod. There’s
a world of difference.
She was made Dame Commander of
the British Empire in 1953, “For social
and public services to Scotland.” Any-
body in Scotland can tell you of her
devotion to the welfare of the folk of her
native Skye and of the Highlands gener-
ally. The economic rehabilitation of the


Highlands and Islands has been one of
her two principal interests ; the other has
been Clan Klacleod, which, under her
leadership, has become the best organised
of all the clans. Dame Flora was also
the inaugurator of “Skye Week,” when
Macleods from the four quarters and
herds of other tourists visit the Misty
Isle and inspect historic Dunvegan,
claimed to be Scotland’s oldest inhabited
castle.
There’s plenty to see at Dunvegan.
When I visited the castle in 1937, Mrs.
Macleod of Macleod (as she was then)
showed me the treasures. They included
the “Fairy Flag,” believed to be respon-
sible for the family “luck” (and perhaps
for the break in the formerly unbroken
male line). Said to have been presented
to the Macleods by a fairy, it is almost
certainly *a crusader’s banner woven in
ancient Italy. Another interesting exhibit
is the enormous drinking-horn which,
filled to the brim with brandy, was ex-
pected to be drained by a new Chief in
one prodigious draught. In our less-
heroic days, I was informed, a lot of the
horn is hlled-in with lead so that your
modern chief gets a shallower drink:
whether this was done to save expense
or because chiefs can’t keep so much
down nowadays, who shall say?
• •
Michael Organ, secretary of the Eques-
trian - Federation of Australia since its
inception, has been with the Vic. Royal
Agricultural Society for 29 years, 25 of
them manager of sideshows —keeping a
tattooed eye on the lady while she was
sawn in half, so to speak. With the A.I.F.
SHOWS
in both World Wars, went to Stockholm
last year for the Olympic horse events,
and retires from the society next year.
• •
Gordon Naylor, newly appointed
Australian rural sales-manager for Boots,
is as likely as not to talk trees. “How
1 many cubic feet do you reckon would be
in that scraggy-looking gum?” he will
fire at you, casually indicating a native
of 40 to 50 feet. “There’s a hundred-and-
twenty in it if there’s a splinter,” he will
enswer for you. From buying odd trees
around U.K. farms he built-up quite a
large forestry and timber-getting business
after demob, from the R.A.F. at the end
of War II before Government restrictions
and a trucking accident put a brake on
the enterprise. '
Naylor, who is 36, joined Boots in
1948, worked in the veterinary and
agricultural-service departments and did
a Boots’ course on the rural side of things,
with practical experience on the com-
pany’s farms. This was followed by five
years in the field in Scotland. He knows
personally many of Scotland’s Ayrshire-
cattle breeders, including Drummond of
Bargowar and Montgomery of Less-
nessock, from whom Australian breeders
have imported stock.
An agricultural engineer (before he
ever went into the timber-getting busi-
ness), his sound all-round agricultural
experience has stood him in good stead.
Two years ago Boots asked if he would
like to help with the formation of a
Rural Division of the company here. He
was in Australia three days later.
• •
For the past week or so sundry
audiences ot Melburnians have been
listening to the delightful Scottish burr
of Sir Stewart Duke-Elder, surgeon-
oculist to the Queen, on the prevention of
blindness, a lecture in which his peerless
learning has been laced with a wit so
subtle they have had to think bacK quickly
for the legpull made in passing.
The world’s leading oculist, here
for the annual congress in Melbourne of
the Ophthalmological Society of Australia,
he is son of a Highland manse, director of
research at the Institute of Ophthalmology
in London, and a teacher of world
renown.
His textbook on ophthalmology is in
seven volumes, has run to 13 editions and
15 languages, and he has many other
publications and papers to his credit. He
has had since his student days a facility
for learning very much faster than most
of his contemporaries ; likes, he says, to
live and play hard ; gets by Witn five
hours’ sleep a night—and a monocle.
• •
Appointed lecturer in chemical-
engineering at Canterbury University
College (N.Z.), R. G. H. Prince is him-
self a product of the college. He gradu-
ated B.E. (Chem.) and B.Sc. in 1950 and
was awarded a fellowship at Sydney Uni-
versity, joining the lecturing staff and
remaining there till 1953. Afterwards he
lectured at King’s College, Durham Uni-
versity (Eng.), and was later with
Distillers’ Co. in Surrey.
• •
William George Hilliker, president of
N.Z. Associated Chambers of Commerce,
believes in bigger and better trade between
Australia and New Zealand. “Australia
is a large producer of an increasing range
and quantity of goods, and also a vigor-
ous salesman,” be told this interviewer.
“New Zealand, with a considerably
smaller population, which deprives manu-
facturers of the cost-savings arising from
mass-production methods, is less well
equipped to sell in Australia, and is,
COMMERCE
perhaps, not so good a salesman. But
New Zealand’s industrial capacity is
increasing and the variety of products
available for export is expanding. A
healthy growth of reciprocal commerce
between the two countries is what we all
want to see.” Born in Dunedin in 1907
and educated at Otago Boys’ High
School and Otago University, W.G.H.
joined the Dunedin Savings Bank in
1925 and is now general manager.
A past president of the Dunedin
Chamber of Commerce, a Rotarian and a
Deacon of the Baptist Church, his recre-
ations are flowers and music.
• •
Today (Wednesday, October 9), Patrick
White, J. R. Margaret Paice
and T. S. Gurr will be signing autographs
at the Australian Book Fair in David
Jones’ Art Gallery, Sydney, and Leslie
and Coralie Rees and Dorothy Catts will
give talks. There’ll be talks and auto-
graph-writing, in fact, until Saturday, with
a number of Australian writers on deck —
among others, Dr. C. E. W. Bean, Colin
Simpson, Roland Robinson, Helen Heney,
Frank Norton, Ray Mathew, W. Beard,
Thistle Y. Harris, Charles Laseron, Frank
Clune, Donald McLean, Ella McFadyen
and A. G. L. Shaw.
• •
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 102, Charles Clarence Gale,
lawyer, businessman and yachtsman. He joined
the board of Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.,
Ltd.,-in 1912 and was chairman from 1927 to
1952.
At Narrogin (W.A.), at 80, Edgar Sydney Hall,
founder, proprietor and editor of the “Narrogin
Observer.
In Sydney, Herbert Maxwell, a life-member
of the Australian Olympic Federation. He
managed the Australian team to the Empire
Games in London in 1934.
In London, at 79, Norman Welsh, well known
in pastoral and sporting circles in N. S. Wales
and Victoria.


ABORIGINAHTIES
T>IG JIM’S room-mate on the run of
western sheds was always bashing
his ear about the beaut working-holiday
he once had in New Zealand. “Be in
it,” he urged, “before some sheila snares
you and you can’t go. The hoggets are
straight-necked, the beer good, and the
two-legged fillies better.” At the cut-out
Big Jim spent a couple of thousand
woolly sheep on new clobber and booked
a first-class passage on the Wanganella.
First night out he cobbered-up with his
two businessmen cabin-mates, who were
impressed by this big-talking, big-
spending wool-man. As they all went
to bed Big Jim, a bit tiddly, and a bit
careless trying to get his new pyjamas
and dressing-gown out of his port,
accidentally scattered all his combs and
cutters over the cabin floor. —“Weak-
staple.”
* * * *
“Ilean”: A missionary back from
Papua.reports that one cannibalistic tribe
admitted a preference for home-industries
•—“white-man meat too salty!”
* K- * *
“C. Coral”: Revisiting Sydney after
nearly a quarter-of-a-century’s absence
I’ve been intrigued to notice that mech-
anisation: hasn’t entirely ousted the horse
as a haulier. Near the Art Gallery a
hitched-up Dobbin was pulling a mower
over a grass-plot, and a spring-cart came
into view a little later also motivated by
horse-power.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: Drovers of the Saltbush
Bill type are practically extinct, but there
is at least one left on the N.S.W. New
England. Dodging his - mob along a
nearly-bare stock-route, he noted a
“You’re a bit early for the mixed, mate —it don't go till next Friday.”
paddock with good pasture-growth and
a convenient fence. A few minutes’ work
with the wire-cutters, and the sheep were
having their best feed for weeks. Next
morning they went their way, undetected.
But the authorities of the University of
New England would like to have got hold
of him —his mob had gobbled their way
through a vegetable-research paddock,
and the work of months went for
nothing.
* * * *
“Fuzzy Wuzzy”: The recent Sepik
patrol came across two groups, the Kalog-
limins and the Bakbakimins, near the
frontier of Dutch New Guinea, who said
they regarded the neighboring Mianmins
as enemies, but they didn’t raid each
other. They fought “merely when they *
chanced to meet.”
*** • *
“Bungaroo”: The name of Recherche
Archipelago, off sou’-western Australia,
might well be Anglicised into Unknown
Archipelago. Nomenclature thereabouts
has the picturesque atmosphere of a
Treasure Island —Cape le Grand, Mount
Arid, Israelite Bay, Figure of Eight
Island, Doubtful Island, grim-sounding
Starvation Boat Harbor and Frenchman’s
Peak (from resemblance to the shape of
the caps worn by the French Revolu-
tionaries). A small W.A. trading steamer,
the Kybra, passed through this archi-
pelago’s wreckage-strewn waters a while
back —the first ship to penetrate into the
area for many, many years.
» * * *
VI/HEN the Kakariki, after collision,
sank off Gellibrand Light there
was 15,000 super, of Huon-pine in No. 1
hold. Timbermen and
conchologists were surprised
when eventual salvage
showed that this timber,
reputedly repellent, was
heavily shipworm-riddled.
Teredo navalis has a
catholic appetite, but
generally prefers the hardest
wood available. Timber
Containing silica blunts its
inbuilt auger. The Japanese
favored N.S.W. turpentine
for their harbor - works
becaiise its resin-crystals
give the mollusc toothache.
Borneo billian is the king-
pin pile-material on the
China coast, and Jardine-
Matheson were reconciled
to replacing their Hong
Kong wharf to the tune of
80,000 dollars every 18
years because the sea-cobras
in that port come champ.-
sized.
A renewed wharf was
just completed for Jardines’
when their wise Chinese
compradore quietly sug-
gested the employment of
a Cantonese bum-boat man
at Is. 2d. daily to brush
THE RABBIT
In lignum, near the low hills’ gap,
the carrion crows are ringed around
the rabbit held there in the trap,
its body flattened to the ground.
Disturbed, each evil creature keeps
watch on me. Towards the plain,
ghoul-voiced, they rise. The rabbit leaps
screaming on its jangling chain.
I take the rabbit’s legs and stand
on the trap, release those fangs.
Hand’s hatchet-blow, and, from my hand,
heavy, limp, the rabbit hangs.
/ walk on through sparse, silver grass
waved by the desert's scented breath
in flowing beauty : waves that pass
through me of terror, life and death.
N.S.W.
ROLAND ROBINSON.


“You know, Joe, that thing makes more row than a mumitions-factory!"


with tar those vulnerable pile-surfaces
that span between extreme tide-levels.
That was 37 years ago, and the rascally
bivalves have not gained a foothold yet.
Sevenelms.
* • * «
“Bellbee”: It seems that even in flood
a river never does the same thing twice.
We have 2in. of rain, and the flood is
mild ; we register 50 points, and the river
is a banker before we know where we are.
Sometimes the water tears by in a mad
race, climbing a foot up the tree-trunks
with a nasty roar. Other times it quietly
and moodily swirls on its way. Some
"I was a professional pianist before I took THIS on.”
floods bring a black procession of gyrating
debris; or the current may be shown
following the centre of the stream only by
a trail of broken foam. The water rises
quickly and goes quickly, or it comes
slowly and stays for days, while three
days after the peak of that granddaddy of
all floods, in February, ’55, the water
covering the flats and farmlands was
entirely motionless, reflecting to perfec-
tion the gumtrees and the partly sub-
merged telephone-posts.
* * * *
“Myall”: Queensland Government
figures show that the domestic-animal
population of the State for 1956-57
includes a sheep-total of 23,240,000, an
increase of 5 per cent, over the previous
year, and the highest since World War 11,
but still 10 per cent, lower than in the
peak year of 1943. Beef-cattle numbered
6,113,000, a rise of 3 per cent, on the
*55-56 total, but not a record. Peak year
was back in 1921, with a total of 6,216,000.
Largest increases were in the northern
and central divisions, where there have
been good seasons, and where fodder-
conservation has been practised over the
past few years. In the southern division,
where the recent drought was badly felt,
the increase was not quite 1| P e r cent*
Dairy-cattle numbers fell by 2000 head to
1,382,000, and again the dry spell was
responsible, as nearly 80 per cent, of the
dairy-cattle are located in the south-east
corner. Grunters increased by 5 per cent,
to 390,000, which is above the average
over the last 10 years.
“Liewahlo”: Such Australian place-
names as Dead Horse Creek, Fat Cow
Creek, Tin Can Bay, are reason enough
for sticking to aboriginal words with a
flowing sound in them like Toowoomba,
Millaa-Millaa, Dululu, Biboohra —and if
the words mean defunct dingo or some-
thing equally romantic, how many are
any the wiser, and what does it matter,
anyway?
* * * - *
“R.A.McC.”: Touching on those old-
time expressions “Macann” was asking
about (B. 11/9/’57), “nailrod” was a thin
fig of dark tobacco about 6in. long.
Knives were not very plentiful in those
days, and many of the old hands used
their thumbnail to break it up ; hence the
name. A “long colonial” was a long beer
of Australian brew. A “brammer” was a
Brahma Pootra, a big heavy fowl.
“Macann”: My thanks to “Villefair”
(B. 2 /10/’57) for identifying a
“brammer” chook as a Brahma, with size
specifications which fit the bird in the
story nicely. His answer on “boggabri”
isn’t so helpful: the “boggabri” in the
story I quoted was being cooked, which
would be more likely to be happening to
pumpkins (which was my guess) than to
“Villefair’s” rather overconfident “many
creeks.” Another guess I offer is that
“boggabri” may have had restricted bush
usage for the kind of round doughboy or
dumpling (about tennis-ball size) that we
used to cook with corned-beef. But does
anyone know for sure? Similarly, a
“fifty-niner” was an old-time goldminer
in the * story I referred to: but why ?
What in particular happened in 1859?
And, again, isn’t there somebody on deck
who knows what was a “long colonial.”
and if it was “a long beer,” how come the
other name (giving some authority, if
possible)?
* * * *
“Croid”: They were a newly-married
couple, desperately in need of a house or
flat, and they appealed to all their friends
for help. “The best 1 can do,” said one,
“is our old fowlhouse. Of course, it’s
not furnished, but the perches are still
there.”
LETTER FROM PINCHER
My last ship wasn’t like this. I tell you,
mate,
The tucker aboard this bucket of rust
would block
The bowels of a pressure-pump. All
dried-up beef,
Speckle-eyed spuds, and duff like a lump
of rock.
The cockies eat your toenails while you
sleep,
The rats stroll round in daylight. Things
are crook.
The cook’s a hungry blister, the mate’s a
creep,
The bosun’s a second-cousin to the cook.
The ship herself would roll on watered
grass,
She’s rusty, slow and a cranky hound to
steer ;
The O.D. never gets off his lazy stern.
It's a month sometimes until we see a
beer.
And the places we go! I tell you, Johnny,
you never
Shipped for ports like the places we have
to go.
We anchor for days in sandfly-scratching
creeks
Or sit on the stinking mud when the tide
is low.
My last ship wasn’t like this. It’s enough
to try
The patience of any saint that ever died.
I’m wire-scrubbing the deck-head with
rust in my eye
Or slung on a stage with a hammer
chipping the side.
My next ship will be better, believe me,
boy.
You’ll hear from me after the end of this
trip.
Good-bye to starving on bread and
cocky’s joy ;
I’m leaving this bleeding sogging wreck
of a ship.
QUEENSLAND.
W. N. SCOTT.


“K.1.N.”: Painkiller was the old
universal drug in the back-country (B.
7/8/’57); it was an alleged cure-all for
everything from ingrowing toenails to a
recovery from a spree. Word got around
that another remedy, advertised as being
“good for the kidneys,” had a greater
percentage of alcohol than overproof
rum. It was astounding the number of
hands, particularly old boundary-riders
camped alone, who suddenly developed
bad backs, a “sure” indication of kidney-
trouble. It didn’t take management long
to wake-up when lashins of the stuff began
flowing to the outer edges —grog being
barred on the job.
*?* * *
“Kros”: In B. 24/ 7 / ’57 I suggested
that the next war could start by a whack-
ing big meteorite falling on either New
York or Moscow, and being mistaken for
an H-bomb or intercontinental-missile.
Now I see that U.S. Air Force missile-
expert Col. H. W. Shelton, writing in the
“Air University Quarterly Review,” says
more-or-less the same thing—that an
automatic radar-set might mistakenly
identify meteorites as ballistic-missiles and
thus touch-off a world war ; the country
recording the “attack” retaliating before
realising what had happened. As the
U.S. Air Force claims its radar can now
pick-up a ballistic-missile 3000 miles
away, the chances of its cottoning on to
a meteorite instead might be well on the
cards.
* * * *
“Van”: I’ve heard of a farmer plough-
ing a firebreak around his haystack and
then putting a match to the high grass on
the inside of the break to “tidy things up
a bit,” but a neighbor of ours went one
better. Following a series of floods which
rose feet-high in his large hayshed, he
put a protecting bank around the shed.
To facilitate drainage of local water out
of the shed he placed an outlet-pipe at the
lowest point in the bank. When the next
flood roared down the creek he noted with
. satisfaction that the bank held back the
fioodwaters. Then he waded across to the
shed—and found the water as high in it
as ever. Yes, he’d forgotten to put a
valve or stop-cock in the pipe. Then,
just to rub the lesson home, as the flood
dropped the pipe fouled and kept the
water securely inside.
COUNTRY-TOWN PAPERS
"OOTH of them hand-comps on the old
** Balonne (Q.) “Beacon” when this
century was young, Mr. and Mrs. Luke
Roberts came into .Goondiwindi from
Mooney River way.
“They were the days of the travelling
compositor,” says Luke. “When the
travelling comp, came along it was the
rule that you gave him a week’s work
or a week’s pay, whether he worked or
not. A brother of one-time Bulletin
artist Harry J. Weston was one of the last
of them. They travelled from paper-
town to paper-town.”
Luke said he could set four sticks an
hour of lOpt. primer, and Mrs. Luke
three sticks. He started work at 7s. 6d.
“ Didn't the mission teachers tell you to raise your hat to a lady?”
a week, and received an annual rise of
2s. 6d.
“I suppose you wonder,” said Luke,
“why so many country papers come out
on Thursdays? If you left publishing-day
until Friday there wouldn’t be any paper
that week. A journalist might be able to
punch out his work half-seas-over, but
a hand-setting comp, wouldn’t be in the
race.”
Bill Nicholls, now into his eighties, still
does a little comping at the Goondiwindi
“Argus.” He told me that Edgar Browne,
who started the paper 75 years ago, was a
fine shorthand-reporter as well as an
expert comp. Browne and Bill Nicholls
would take the type-cases out into the
winter sun and have type-setting races.
While city papers of large circulations
and long publication, such as the Mel-
bourne “Argus,” sometimes fall by the
way, the country press continues to be
better read than any other papers on
earth. Having edited some of them, one
finds the most remote par. is read and
dissected. If there is any error one is soon
told about it.
When country radio began to establish
itself it was thought that many country-
town papers were doomed, but country
papers of up to a hundred years’ existence
continue to grow and become more
powerful in the community. This desire
for local news is evident in the U.S.A.
also, with country weeklies growing in
circulation and importance. Of course,
few country towns have their “reptile
contemporaries,” as in the old days;
usually a town now supports one paper
only.
An item in an 1874 issue of the Inverell
(N.S.W.) “Dispatch” indicates that you
couldn’t 'easily libel a journalistic
opponent in the early days:
For some time, in common with many
others, I have read the dirty ribaldry of the
“Courier” with a feeling of disgust mingled
with compassion for the poor inebriate
who owns (?) it; but the last emanation
from the editorial hog-sty, purporting to be
a letter from a reader, is beyond all human
endurance.
There was the suggestion that the
same man owned both papers, thus divert-
ing the populace with meaty reading and
selling extra papers. Many are the devious
ways of trade.
The “cleanness” of the hand-set papers
of the old days is shown in such examples
as the Corowa (N.S.W.) “Free Press” of
the ’seventies. Produced on human-
operated machines, the papers are a
tribute to the journalists, hand-comps,
and printers who produced them.
Incidentally, J. C. Leslie started the paper,
and his grandson, Conrad Leslie, still
publishes it 81 years later.
The pink cover of The Bulletin
and the local paper are still features of
the country-town newsagents.
O. P. SIDE.


TNC Ul BRITISH
the Pen
with the
Marvellous
Nib!
1
p
YM
Prices from
29/6 to 95/-
Gives Character
your Writing
ttOQVOI 'Oil *O9 V 1 1 | 9 J 1 S AVMNO3
A QUEER CEMENT-MIXTURE
AN the day last week that
The Bulletin’s review of
the affairs of Metropolitan
Portland Cement was published
in Sydney, the comments of the
State Auditor-General, W. J.
Campbell, on the relations of
the N.S.W. Rural Bank with
the same enterprise were tabled
in Parliament.
Mr. Campbell pointed out
that the overdraft on June 30,
1957, totalled £4,081,179, which
compares with £3,932,520 on
December 31, 1957, the date of
the cement co.'s last annual
accounts.
The Auditor-General went
on to say that the overdraft of
£4,081,179 was the outcome of
progressive overdraft assistance
which commenced in 1948 at
£150,000, when share-capital
called-up and proposed to be
called-up was £BOO,OOO. Over
the succeeding years the share-
capital had been increased in
the main only for consideration
other than cash, and while
some other loan-capital by way
of debentures (£100,000) had
been introduced, the main
source of capital, by far, had
been the bank.
A considerable portion of
the bank’s advances had been
utilised in financing losses, and.
moreover, little or no use had
been made of some of the
assets acquired in the early life
of the company. The under-
taking for a long time has
operated only by virtue of the
continued forbearance of the
Rural Bank.
Interest at 4 p.c.
A general increase from
5 p.c. to 5j p.c. in the bank’s
rate for overdraft accommoda-
tion effected at April 1, 1956,
was not applied to the Metro-
politan Cement loan. And by
recent approval of the com-
missioners the interest-charge
to the company was reduced to
4 p.c. p.a., this further con-
cession being made retroactive
to July 1, 1956. (In respect of
the year to December 31 last
bank- and debenture-interest
together totalled £177,964, so
that for a half-year the conces-
sion should be worth around
£15,000 to the co.)
The matter of the Rural
Bank advances to Metropolitan
Cement has, since publication
of the Auditor-General’s report,
been raised in N.S.W. Parlia-
ment by Opposition members.
The Background
Metropolitan Portland
Cement, Ltd., announced in its
prospectus, issued in July,
1948, that “the importance
attached to the industry by
the Common w e a 1 1 h [then
Chifley] Government is shown
by the allocation to the com-
pany of $1,189,110 for the pur-
chase of a complete plant from
the Ford Company of U.S.A.,
despite the grave deficiency of
dollars.”
This was a secondhand plant
that had been out of operation
for many years, and has proved
to be a disastrous waste of
dollars and shareholders’
money. The nature of the
negotiations which led-up to
the purchase of this white-
elephant has never been fully
“They told me I could open a joint-account—preferably
with someone with a few thousand pounds."
revealed, but as against
$509,865 (and 53 cents) payable
to the Ford Motor Co., no less
than $418,000 was payable to
the North Western Wrecking
Co., of Milwaukee.
Metropolitan Portland
Cement, Ltd., represented
the third attempt at the metro-
politan manufacture of cement
in which the name of Arnold
S. Taylor figured. Mr. Taylor
was manager of Southern
Portland Cement until 1932,
when he floated Metropolitan
Products, Ltd., with the object
of making cement at Granville
from Marulan limestone, Gran-
ville shale and coal drawn
from Camden-Bulli Collieries,
in which the new float pro-
posed to take a £7500 share-
interest and in which Mr.
Taylor figured at the formation.
Marulan limestone leases of
“about 62 acres” were sold to
the cement co., which asked the
public for £130,000, the plant-
capacity to be 50,000 tons a
year. The project never reached
production.
The Atlas Company
Second appearance of Mr.
Taylor was in 1938, when
Atlas Portland Cement (Aust.),
Ltd., was formed —A. S;
Taylor managing-director.
Again the manufacturing-site
was Granville; limestone
leases were to be acquired at
Marulan and on the Macleay
River, and the Wollondilly
colliery, in the Burragorang
Valley, was to be bought. The
public was asked to put up
£185,000, while Mr. Taylor was
to be given 89,500 fully-paid
£1 ords. for “certain plans,
rights, processes, lease and/or
rights under mining agree-
ments.” .
Other vendor’s agreements
prov i d e d for payments
totalling £29,250 in cash and
£18,500 in fully-paid shares.
The plant was to turn out
60,000 tons of cement a year ;
but this project foundered, too.
The 1948 Float
Mr. Taylor appeared in the
1948 (present) flotation as a con-
sultant who prepared profits


i •
m
A word to the wise
For people who don’t take risks with
money, interest-bearing deposits with the
Bank of New South Wales offer an attrac-
tive balance between a comfortable return
and absolute security of capital.
The manager of the nearest branch of
the Bank of New South Wales will be
pleased to show you the advantages of
interest-bearing deposits for short- or long-
term deposits.
Rates of interest at present are:—
31 % per annum for 24 months
2f% per annum for 12 months
2\% per annum for 6 months
2\% per annum for 3 months
ow
&
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
Oldest and largest trading bank in Australia
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
A5738C
estimates for the co. and as a
prospective vendor of shares
in certain companies interested
in (a) Marulan limestone and
( b ) Berrima coal. Plant-capacity
was to be “about 150,000 tons”
a year.
Metropolitan Portland
Cement, Ltd., exercised an
option over the “greater
portion of the shares in Metro-
politan Cement, Ltd. [formerly
Metropolitan Products, Ltd.],
the owner of the mining leases
in respect of the limestone areas
.... and other assets” ; the new
co. was offered an unspecified
number of shares in the old co.
for £215,713 (at the rate of
£250,000 for all the scrip),
payable in cash or shares, and
in which Arnold S. Taylor
figured as the prospective
recipient of £72,964 and Coal
Holdings Pty. of £22,770.
Arnold S. Taylor also agreed
to sell the new co. his shares in
Coal Holdings Pty. for £16,497;
all the scrip in this co. to be
acquired for £22,000. A con-
trolling interest in Loch
Catherine Colliery, Ltd., was
to be bought for £4650.
Financial Disaster
In estimating profits, Mr.
Taylor, “for reasons of policy,”
declined to furnish “detail
costs.” He displayed a similar
reluctance in the Atlas case in
1938, details then being with-
held “for obvious reasons.”
But total costs per ton (ex-
cluding taxes) were put by Mr.
Taylor at about £3 155., and,
with cement sales at £5 Bs. and
output at the full capacity of
150,000 tons a year, a gross
profit of £248,750 was forecast,
with “net” at £161,750,' after
deducting taxes.
As The Bulletin pointed
out last week, Metropolitan
Portland Cement has never,
in fact, made a profit, and
its losses up to December
31 last totalled £787,714; with
£330,030 of other intangibles,
a deficit of £1,117,744 more
than offset paid capital of
£1,004,306.
The co. hauls its limestone
from Marulan, its coal from
Berrima, and manufactures at
Maldon (not, after all, in the
Sydney metropolis). Transport-
costs and unbalanced, inefficient
and overcapitalised plant are
the principal reasons for its
huge losses and fantastic over-
draft.
Other Government Favors
After Metropolitan Cement
started “full” production in
1952 (it has never been with-
out plant troubles, and its
actual output has never been
published) the N.S.W. Govern-
ment made use of its price-
control powers during a period
of cement-scarcity to allow the
co. to charge up to 50 p.c.
more than other manufacturers
in the State, and an even higher
premium was charged by the
co. on cement sold in Queens-
land, where another Labor
Government was in power.
“Vaporiser Fuel”
During a dull period between
his cement - company pro-
motions Mr. Taylor formed
Coal Oil By-products, Ltd., at
the end of 1940 to supply
“vaporiser fuel” to motorists
who were so desperate under
petrol-rationing that they were
prepared to risk their engines
with Taylor’s combustion-
mixture, and to put-up money
to finance the erection of
retorts at Berrima.
“As the result of police
investigations,” the N.S.W.
Crown Solicitor reported in
1942, “it is perfectly clear that
this company, has not carried
out its obligations.” Mr. Taylor
agreed that this was so, but
said that one reason was that
“the supply of power-kerosene,”
said to be used by the co. for
“fluxing purpose s,” had
“abruptly ceased.”
The N.S.W. Crown Solicitor
commented: “Notwithstanding
the reasons put forward....
there is evidence that at this
time agents of the company
were still canvassing for people
to purchase interests in the
retorts to be erected.”
Taylor said on March 17,
• 1942, that “production by the
end of May is expected to reach
the rate of one million gallons
per annum.” But on May 13,
1942, the N.S.W. Assembly was
informed by the Attorney-
General, the late Clarrie
Martin, that “several firms”
were “still not receiving any
fuel,” though the company
getting “power-kerosene at the
rate of 2500 gallons a week.”
The police, “in the course of
their investigations,” found
that Taylor ran another co.,
Mudgee Shale Oil Pty., Ltd.,
the objects of which were
“practically the same” as the
Berrima concern. How much
power-kerosene it fluxed isn’t
clear.
All these events had taken
place several years before the
flotation of Metropolitan
Portland Cement.
When Metropolitan Portland
Cement was floated in 1948 it
was strongly attacked by The
Bulletin on financial and
political grounds, and this was
followed by an onslaught in
the House of Representatives by
J. P. Abbott, M.P. Comment-
ing on the Canberra debate,
The Bulletin said:
In May last, refusing an inquiry
into the administration of Mr..
Ward’s Department of External
Territories following J. S. Garden’s
conviction, Mr. Chifley told a press-
conference that he “watched the
administration of Government
departments pretty closely.”
In the Metropolitan Cement case
Mr. Chifley had a more direct
association, as treasurer, with the
allocation of a very large dollar-
ciedit for plant-purchase. Yet he
had “never heard of Mr. Taylor.”
Didn’t R. G. Hamilton, N.S.W.
“Labor” member for Na*moi and a
director of Metropolitan Portland
Cement, tell him about Mr. Taylor
when he (Mr. Hamilton) saw Mr.
Chifley “on one occasion” on
matters to do with Metropolitan
Cement?
Mr. Hamilton addressed the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly the
day (in May, 1942) the Attorney-
General gave the information about
Mr. Tayior and the “Coal Oil”
concern.
Obviously Mr. Chifley should
listen as well as “watch” —and read
“Hansard,” even if he chooses to
ignore the morning papers.
The Personnel
The first board of Metro-
politan Portland Cement com-
prised J. T. Walton (chairman),
Arthur Vickery, A. T. George,
L. J. Hartnett, Elton R. Griffin,


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £81,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with tho
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
tstab'ished 1868
Contractors to Government Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON l
OSbTLLIV'AN
LX PTY . LTO Aj
> X> s tutto t
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Walson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney. London, New York
LETTERPRFSS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•‘JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
and Raymond G. Hamilton,
then Labor member for Namoi,
and who had visited U.S.A*.
during the year to negotiate in
connection with the purchase
of the secondhand plant.
L. J. Hartnett resigned from
the board almost immediately
the prospectus was issued, and
the consulting engineers also
dropped-out smartly.
Among the shareholders in
the old Metropolitan Cement
Co. (formely Metropolitan
Products, Ltd.) who sold their
shares to the new co. were
Arnold S. Taylor, who was to
receive £72,964, Coal Holdings
Pty., Ltd. (£22,770), R. G.
Hamilton (£4583), Slaglime
Fertilisers, Ltd. (£6508), Con-
structors Pty., Ltd. (£183), and
Marie Joan Doyle (£2750).
The board of Metropolitan
Portland Cement at December
31 last was E. E. Fortescue
(chairman), A. T. George,
R. G. Hamilton (no longer
M. L. S. Snider M.L.C.,
and J. T. Walton.
Constructors (E. and I.),
Ltd.
MEW SOUTH WALES
- Auditor - General Camp-
bell, in dealing with the affairs
of the Rural Bank, refers also
to a loan made by the bank to
Constructors (Engineering and
Industrial), Ltd. The co. was
first granted accommodation in
1950 for an amount of £25,000,
but by June, 1953, this had
lisen to £229,000.
A receiver was appointed by
the bank in August, 1953, but
the A.-G. reports that “for
some time it has been apparent
that the co.’s affairs are beyond
rehabilitation, and with the
receivership nearing comple-
tion it would appear that a loss
of the order of £200,000 will be
incurred by the bank.”
It was in this company that
Joshua George Arthur, then
Minister for Mines in the
N. Labor Government, in
January, 1951, acquired shares
through finance obtained from
Mrs. Marie Joan Doyle, wife of
Aubrey Reginald Doyle. The
terms of this arrangement, it
was-deposed, were that Arthur
and Mrs. Doyle were to share
equally in all profits or benefits
arising from the share-deal.
Mrs. Doyle was also an
original shareholder in Metro-
politan Portland Cement, Ltd.
The directors of Constructors
in 1952 were A. T. George
(chairman), C. J. Chesterfield
(managing), J. T. Walton, K. L.
Harris and R. Walton.
Up to 1953 C. J. Chesterfield
was also a director of Metro-
politan Cement. A. T. George
and J. T. Walton are at
present directors of Metro-
politan.
Shakeout Goes On
■pURTHER weakness has
A been developing in Aus-
tralian sharemarkets, and
though it began with the
leaders, which was logical in
view of the low yields, present
and prospective, that were
being accepted by those
mesmerised by the words
“bonus issue,” it has now
spread through the second-
liners regardless of profits,
prospects or yield.
Most of the second-liners
which were mentioned in B.
25/9/’57 as examples of the
increasing note being taken of
stocks not in the front row
have now come back consider-
ably even where they have
shown excellent profits in the
past year.
A combination of factors has
contributed to the market set-
back—drought threat, lower
wool prices, higher interest-
levels overseas, low yields
obtainable from key industrials
here, competitive trading at
home and abroad, and over-
speculation that occurred prin-
cipally among the “top” stocks
during the past seven months.
Some bonus-issues also turned
out to be an anticlimax.
If the present downward
trend in the market continues
there will be an opportunity to
select some of the better-class
second-liners at prices which
will offer reasonable yields,
especially in view of the sur-
prisingly good profits shown by
some cos. during the year to
June 30 last. The second-liners
by no means experienced the
same degree of market-inflation
that was obvious among the
front-liners.
A Norse Chris-myth
A/TANY people will think it
had to come. The follow-
ing is a letter sent out by the
Skandinaviska Banken, Stock-
holm, dated September, 1957:
Regarding the exchange of seasonal
greetings —
For a very long time the exchange
of Christmas and New Year greet-
ings has been a most agreeable
custom, giving a personal touch to
the close of a year of pleasant
business relations between banks.
Without wishing in any way to
belittle the value of old traditions or
of our desire to send greetings to our
friends abroad at Christmas and the
New Year we nevertheless feel that
the essential basis for the traditional
exchange of such greetings has
changed substantially. The original
idea of the personal tone and the
personal greeting has been
swallowed-up by the flood of
Christmas-cards which each year is
sctting-in with ever-increasing force.
During the last few years this view
Las been more and more accepted in
Swedish commercial and. industrial
quarters, and Swedish companies
have to a great extent discontinued
the practice of exchanging such
greetings between each other.
Although it always goes against
one’s feelings to depart from old
customs, we believe that the time has
now come to apply this practice also
to our banking friends abroad, and
we therefore have been bold enough
to decide to discontinue sending
Christmas and New Year greetings
to our foreign friends in the future.
We hope that the reason for our
attitude will meet with your
sympathetic understanding and you
will, no doubt, realise that our
decision is prompted solely by a
desire to eliminate a custom which,
it seems to us, has over the past
few years acquired an almost routine
character.
It now remains for some bold
spirit to start rationalising the
spate of business cocktail-
parties at Christmas-time, that
bave also developed “almost
a routine character.”
A.O.E.
A DEPT at finding wealthy
1 working - partners, Aus-
tralian Oil Exploration, Ltd., is
to be joined by the Canadian-
registered Stanleigh Uranium
Mining Corp., Ltd., in work on
the Anderson lode at Mt. Isa.
A new co., tentatively called
Ausland Uranium Mining
Corp., Ltd., will be formed
to take over the Mt. Isa leases,
with A.O.E. and the Stanleigh
Corp. each holding a 50 p.c.
share-interest. Announcing the
agreement between the two
cos., the president of the
Canadian company (H. S.
Strouth) claimed that ore
already discovered on the
partly explored lode would
represent a gross value of
between 15 million and 20
million dollars (£A6.7 million
to £AB.9 million) with ore in
the one major zone averaging
from 0:20 p.c. to 0.25 p.c.
uranium-oxide. However,
drilling to date has only
reached a depth of 500 ft., and
considerable exploratory work
has yet to be carried out. A.O.E.
has indicated in the past that
lack of an economical method
of treating the ore has pre-
vented development of the area.
The Stanleigh Corp. owns a
uranium-bearing property at
Blind River in the Canadian
province of Ontario, and last
year raised over £lO million to
finance development of the
property.
A.O.E.’s main uranium
interest at the moment is, of
course, the Mary Kathleen
mine, in which it holds a 35 p.c.
shareholding, the other major
shareholder being the big Rio
Tinto mining group.


“By the Way, gentlemen , anyone got a refill for my lighter ?”


Qft
ORB
LYSAGHT
RURAL PRODUCTS
DISTRIBUTED BY
/
AND COMPANY LIMITED
( Ihcorporottd tn Fn gland )
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
“The Shifting Heart”
The assimilation of
migrants is an old problem
which has been examined
so often on the stage that,
to make any significant
impact as a social statement, a
new play on the subject needs
either a new slant on it, or
dramatic values way out of
the ordinary.
Despite its sympathy, humor
and two or three intensely
dramatic moments, Richard
Beynon’s “The Shifting Heart,”
which had its premiere at
Sydney’s Elizabethan Theatre,
doesn’t quite measure up on
either of the foregoing counts.
The Bianchis have been in
Australia for eight years,
living in Melbourne’s Colling-
wood ; Poppa Bianchi, happy
and tolerant, forgets to empty
rubbish-tins, idles in the sun
and plays his mouth-organ, and
loves the world in general and
Australia in particular; Momma
Bianchi, bustling and voluble,
scolds him and loves hipi and
is similarly disposed towards
her new country. On one side
of them live the Pratts, a cheer-
ful slangy woman with a
mouse of a husband who
becomes a lion in his cups ; on
the other are neighbors who
pelt garbage over the fence.
The author presents the
“integration” problem mainly
through the two children.
Maria, the daughter who has
married Clarry Fowler, an Aus-
tralian with a scrap-metal
business, and Gino, the son,
who works for Clarry. Gino,
young, thrifty and hardwork-
ing, hopes to buy a truck and
go into partnership with Clarry;
he also likes to dance and to
that end frequents the local
dance-hall every Saturday
night. Then comes the night
of the ball when Gino goes
along to find that New Aus-
tralians have been barred,
allegedly because of their ways
with the ladies; he returns
home bewildered and angry,
then goes back to the dance,
pulls a knife and attempts to
force his way in. He is kicked
and bashed and dies in hospital.
So one has a likeable and
promising New Australian
citizen senselessly and brutally
destroyed. By what? Mr.
Beynon points at racial in-
tolerance by having Clarry
reluctant to take Gino into
partnership because the Italian
name might affect his business,
but that is hardly enough. By
the intolerance of the dance-
hall mob? Possible, too, but that
would also need going into on
several scores. Then there is
the knife. That, too, would need
a lot said about it on both
sides for a balanced statement.
It is in that balance that Mr.
Beynon doesn’t quite bring off
the tragedy of Gino. He is
basically pleading for tolerance
towards New Australians, and
that is a worthy plea, but he
needs to go much more deeply
into both the Australian and
the Italian side of it before he
makes his point.
He does better with Maria.
She has lost two children before
birth, because, it is suggested,
■she is afraid for their future
in the Australian community ;
she is at loggerheads with
Clarry because of his reluc-
tance to accept Gino into
partnership, and she is afraid
for Gino’s future because of
the Australian attitude towards
Italians ; and when, after Gino’s
death, her third child is about
to arrive, she endangers her
life by a psychological refusal
to part with it. There are more
human, less social complexities
involved in Maria’s problems
than in Gino’s, and for that
reason her case comes across
more clearly.
The foregoing, of course, is
concerned with the social
aspects of the play rather than
its dramatic values, although,
obviously, the two are not
separable. Dramatically, Mr.
Beynon wastes a lot of time
in his first act showing what
tolerant and good-humored
people Momma and Poppa
Bianchi are; he could have
used the time to much greater
advantage by focusing his
attentions on Gino, drawing
that character much more
fully and thus giving more
weight to his tragedy.
The second act, with Gino
staggering back from the ball
to collapse bloody and beaten
in the backyard, with Clarry at
last seeing the Bianchis’
problems in their true perspec-
tive, and with the beginning of
Maria's labor —all this is really
the dramatic climax of the play.
The third act, with Maria up-
stairs fighting against the birth
of her baby, while down in the
backyard Poppa is trying to
make Clarry realise what he
already seems to have realised,
is largely repetitive.
Then*, finally, when the baby
is born and Clarry says that
it will be called Gino, one
suddenly remembers that it is
Christmas Day, that everything
has happened on Christmas
Eve, that Poppa Bianchi has
said such things as “They know
not what they do” and, roughly,
“If God isn’t an Italian, he
must be an Australian” —
remembering those things, one
realises that, despite the social
and human problems in which
he is dealing, Mr. Beynon has
not quite escaped the clutches
of molodrama.
It would be difficult, how-
ever, to have many reservations
about the acting and producing.
May Hollinworth took the
story unfalteringly through
its varying sentimental,
humorous and dramatic moods,
and got the most out of each
of them. Lyndall Barbour and
Tom Farley, as Momma and
Poppa Bianchi, could have
done with a little more natural
volatility to put the finishing-
touches to what were other-
wise admirable performances
in conventional roles; Frank
Waters, expertly Australian as
Clarry, only became un-Aus-
tralian when emotion got the
better of him and he posed like
a crucified ballet-dancer against
the picket-fence; as Gino,
author Richard Beynon was
curiously indefinite in a part
of his own writing.
Neva Carr - Glyn’s Mrs.
Pratt, talkative, big-hearted,
slangy, was really excellent;
and Dinah Shearing, in quite
the best performance of the
evening, made Maria come to
life in a way that held the
emotional sympathy of the
audience all night and left it
too silent even for gasping
when, kicking and screaming
and tearing splinters out of the
veranda-post, she was carried
upstairs to have her baby.
Artbursts
The Dying Gladiator
More correctly titled The
Dying Gaul, it is. at present
reposing, more than lifesize, in
my garden, the drooping head
and the splendid body, from
which the blood drips, sup-
ported on a missing right arm.
According to my encyclopasdia,
it was carved by a sculptor of
the school of Pergamum,
190 b.c., or rather, the original,
which is in the Capitoline
Museum, was. Mine is a
cast, but it is a good cast
and a good cast can have the
same aesthetic content as the
living stone which came from
the sculptor’s chisel.
Standing beside it is the
Discobulus of Myron. There
isn’t quite so much of him left
—only the legs and trunk up
to the navel. He is standing
waiting to be unloaded from
the tray of my Vanguard and,
although only a fragment, he
gives an effect of enormous
energy to the old bus. The
original is lost and the figure
of the athlete about to throw
the discus is only to be seen
in copies at the Vatican and


Si to
' •• '
m m '. mB
■ i
mmm
mm ILYSAGHT BARHMjt
■ »
is ■' •
* M €J C -t * -
your own
grain storage
saves time-money
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
» Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
• Hinged type bag holder on 1000'
8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and loading
platforms available as
extras if required
• Prompt delivery
aLYSAGHT
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra ring of
corrugated steel sheets filled with earth or
sand, is a most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated base for
your Lysaght Silo. The use of an earth ring
reduces the risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain auger is
now available to fill and empty Lysaght
Silos. Outstanding features include:
• Unique centre drive unit (Patent
pending * No. 22636/56).
• Improved capacity.
• All working parts completely en-
cased. *
• Adjustable chute tube.
Grain Silos
AND AUGERS
GRAIN SILO PRICES
Write tor further information to:
*
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. In all Capital Cities or
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED, NEWCASTLE WORKS
S2SC
the British Museum, from
which, no doubt, my cast was
taken. I can’t help wondering
how many contemporary sculp-
tures, 200 G. years hence, will be
thought worth taking casts of.
In another part of my garden
gleams the palpitating flesh of
what is possibly the legs and
the middle of an Aphrodite,
the original of which may have
been carved by Praxiteles. The
modelling, 1 am assured by an
artist whose judgment 1 respect,
is just as living as the Venus di
Milo —it has that glorious living
quality which only the Greeks
attained to. The leg of a naked
Hermes hangs over the edge of
a pedestal draped with the god's
clothing and portion of his
golden belly lies in the grass
below it. He is also possibly by
Praxiteles.
Hands, fingers and breasts
lie scattered where the carriers
dropped them. Pick up any
odd bit and you will see that
it has the same quality of life-
likeness as the rest of the
statue. Rodin found as much
to interest him in a fragment
as in the finished work and vyas
regarded as a madman because
he bought bits of marble from
secondhand shops and set them
up in the Hotel Biron —so who
am I to reject these bits and
pieces of the glory that was
Greece?
If the ignorant youths who
broke into my friend’s, studio
and smashed all this loveliness
to pieces were vandals, then
what are we to call the National
Gallery which was once the
possessor of the statues? For
50 years they had stood in the
art school, where countless
drawings must have been made
of them by countless students.
They were eventually knocked-
down to the highest bidder, who
happened to be the friend who
rang me the other morning.
He got them, somehow or
other, up five flights of stairs to
his studio in Bourke Street.
Now the old building is to
he demolished and replaced by
a more fashionable thing of
glass, steel and concrete and,
having nowhere to store them,
my friend asked me if I would
like to give them a home ; and
that is how this heritage of
the Greek genius lobbed into
my garden at the moderate
expenditure of a tenner, which
was all the two strong lads who
brought it asked for what they
said was the most interesting
cargo they had ever carried.
Poor Dying Gladiator,
you’ve had a rough spin!
Although you don’t know it,
you are completely out of
fashion. To modern eyes
you’re as dead as frozen
mutton. You make too un-
fortunate a contrast with
modern sculpture. If I offered
you to the National Gallery
they would think I was crazy,
yet is there anything in that
great institution as living,
except the Aphrodite, which,
for some strange reason, is kept
hidden in.the basement?
People, least of all gallery-
directors, don’t know how
much they are determined by
fashion. While this little drama
was being enacted at my place
at Eltham, all Melbourne
seemed to be agitating itself
about anot her piece of
“vandalism,” this time corn-
mitted by the directors of a
company which makes cement
drainpipes and who ordered a
piece of alleged sculpture to be
removed from the foyer of their


business building and dumped
on the tip. They were sick of
seeing it in their foyer, where
it had been placed by the
sculptor for the alleged purpose
of correcting the upward lines
of the architecture of their
building. It was an amorphous
globule weighing two-and-a-
half tons which looked rather
like an egg collapsed in the
middle. One of the directors
said that if it was a work of
art, then so was one of his
drainpipes.
Artists -and art-lovers rose in
fury. The president of the
Contemporary Art Society of
Australia said that k should
be taken from its dumping-
place and erected as a monu-
ment to modern art. For once
I am in full agreement with
him. He can erect his monu-
ment anywhere -he pleases so
long as it isn’t in my garden.
Let the Dying Gladiator die
in peace. He has been dying
for 2000 years and he isn’t as
dead yet as this new-laid egg
cf modern sculpture.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Films
“The Silent World”
There have been other good
full-length documentary films
dealing with the world under
the sea, but none so spectacular
and so beautifully presented as
this one at Sydney Lyceum.
It is the record of a French
aqualung expedition which
roamed the Mediterranean Sea
and Indian Ocean for two years
in search of novelty and thrills.
There were plenty, and they are
here served-up with compelling
artistry as Captain Cousteau,
who led the expedition, does for
the sea what Disney has done
for the desert and the prairie—
showing the teeming life of a
little-known world with fasci-
nating detail.
The film opens-with a caval-
cade of aqualung-divers, in
line-ahead and carrying flaring
torches, descending from
immediately under the ship
until, as tiny figures, they -dis-
appear in the depths. There is
an unforgettable scene as
several hundred porpoises play
around the ship; there is a
friendly 801 b. groper which
loves to be tickled under the
“chin” and becomes so
embarrassingly affectionate that
he has to be temporarily
“jailed” while explorations con-
tinue ; there is pathos when a
baby whale, separated from a
big herd of sperms, is acci-
dentally hit by the ship and has
to be dispatched—the riot of
sharks which .attack the carcass
effectively dispose of the old
belief that a Noah has to turn
-4? n its side to bite.
The color-cameras record the
beauty of coral formations, the
amazing diversity of richly
colored fish, and the endless
variety of sea-plants which
sway in the deep currents like
fields of wheat under wind.
There is also an expedition
with the aqualung men on
electric-scooters, careering in
and out of watery chasms and
recording the deepest dive so
far made by a skin-diver
—247 ft.
Magnificent tropical sunsets
and seascapes, and little touches
of shipboard, humor ; and the
commentary by Captain
Cousteau in keeping with
the general excellence of the
film.
❖ ♦♦♦ ♦>
“The Bachelor Party”
Screenwriter Paddy Chayev-
sky and director Delbert Mann,
who made “Marty,” team again
in this penetrating study of
middle-class life in New York.
Five men who work together
in a big office as clerks throw
a stag-party for one of their
number who is about to be
married. It begins in the
greatest good-fellowship, with
chiacking as the bottles rotate,
then as the grog loosens tongues
and discretions the men begin
to turn vicious about their
various frustrations at home
and in the office. The party
ends more-or-less in fiasco, but
with one young married man
seeing his own shaky domestic
affairs in a clearer light.
The sympathy with which
the subject has been treated,
expert character - drawing,
naturalness in every scene, and
acting well above the average
—these combine to make quite
an interesting film. At Sydney
Esquire.
❖ ♦♦♦ ❖
“Fire Down Below”
Robert Mitchum and Jack
Lemmon, both self-exiles from
a world of might-have-been,
fun a boat in the Caribbean,
with the aid of a lithe negro
named Jimmy-John. A
nervous little man from Detroit
and a circumlocutory barman
transact a deal with them that
translates out as female contra-
band in the once-familiar shape
of Rita Hayworth (her life, it
is explained, has been one long
tragedy). En voyage the
natural happens: the boys try.
to figure whether the triangle
should be isosceles or equi-
lateral, and end in a nice
squabble. From there on all
sorts of strange Caribbean-like
occurrences entwine around
the wicked (this is made quite
evident) Miss Hayworth.
Although the film takes one
heck of a time getting there,
a tense climax is reached when
Lemmon, working his way
back on a tramp-steamer to
lay hands on M i t c h u m
(undercut man in the triangle),
gets himself into a nasty pre-
dicament in the hatch with
some great hunks of steel.
Things, however, straighten
themselves out.
Rita Hayworth proves most
convincingly that it is possible
.to be around the celluloid a
long time without any ability
to act, although it should be
noted that a dance she
performs in a fiesta scene is an
exciting piece of manoeuvring
hips and limbs.
Jack Lemmon displays
ability to do a reasonable job
on the end of a no-luck role;
but comedy is his caper.
Robert Mitchum is his laconic,
lazy self. A drunk comes
pestering Miss H. for a dance.
Mitchum suggests he beat it.
He won’t, so R.M., grabbing
him, dances him wildly all
over the floor, hurling him
finally on his neck. Miss H.
makes her exit. Finding her
back at the boat, R.M. proffers,
in rich Mitchum guttural:
“You should have danced with
that fella; you don’t know
what you missed. He was a
terrific dancer.”
These lines fit into Mit-
chum’s mouth more snugly
than anything since a foreign
agent planted his fist there a
few episodes ago.
♦l*
“Break in the Circle”
Tough-guy Forrest Tucker
captains the launch that trans-
ports the drama in this East-
mancolored man-hunt from
England to Germany and back.
And they don’t come much
tougher than Tucker —he beats-
up his baddies, hard-bargains
his smarties, and manhandles
his women with the best of
them.
With a reputation for
smuggling, he’s offered and
accepts a sum to deliver from
Hamburg to London a brilliant
German scientist and the world-
winning formula he carries
about in his head. The catch
is that F. Tucker is not aware
that the professor is what he
is, and that a swarm of other
smart operators are out to
ensnare him, including a nasty
bunch of Russians.
This does not deter him —any
more than the fact that the
pretty little writer (Eva Bartok)
holidaying at the seaside-resort
where he docks his launch is
an Interpol" agent out to label
him for his misdeeds. When
he has made short work of the
Russians, landed the professor
in the right quarters, put paid
to the crook who had hired
him, and won the heart of the
Bartok, it seems rough justice
that the authorities should catch
up with him. But it's as obvious
as the rest of the film that the
sentence will be short and the
Bartok will be waiting.
At Sydney Victory.
+}►
“Something of Value”
A Kikuyu native and a white
lad have come to manhood
together as friends ; the native,
although educated, is finally
suborned by the Mau Mau and
from gun-stealing beginnings
comes to leadership, so that the
two are finally pitted against
each other. Although the
denouement is too easily fore-
seen, the manner of it has a
good quota of excitement.
The proceedings are the
better for sincere performances
from Rock Hudson, as the
white leader, Sidney Poitier, as
the black, Dana Wynter, as his
terrified fiancee, and Wendy
Hiller, as the stout-hearted
survivor of a massacre.
At Sydney St. James.
‘The Little Hut”
Genuinely funny situations
don’t exactly abound in this
screen-version of the Andre
Roussin farce about a titled
tycoon, his flighty wife and a
bachelor - diplomat friend
marooned on a desert island.
While there is a general slick-
ness about the production, the
humor as expounded by Ava
Gardner, Stewart Granger and
David Niven is too often under
forced draught. The exception
is when Niven is being blase,
and Miss Gardner feather-
brained, in the opening scenes
in London.
At Sydney Liberty.-
f* ♦> ♦>
“Folies Bergere”
For once the French film-
makers have lost their usually
sure touch. In ‘ French Can-
Gan” there was a reasonably
good story on which to hang
the brilliantly colored dance-
sequences ; in this opus the
backstage story is tepid and the
action often sluggish. There is
some excellent dancing by
Renee Jeanmarie; Eddie Con-
stantine, as the American who
breaks into the Folies, makes
hard going of the romantic side.
At Sydney Savoy,


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co., Ltd.
TV/TAINTAINING the remarkable rate
of expansion which has charac-
terised the co. over the past 10 years, G. J.
Coles and Co., Ltd., lifted, its turnover
by 25 p.c. last term to show a net profit
more than 32 p.c. greater than that of
the preceding term. Biggest single factor
behind the improved return was the
“most satisfactory” result obtained from
the 40-store Penneys chain bought from
Burns, Philp and Co. at the beginning
of the term.
• One of the first to develop chain-store
retailing in this country, G. J. Coles and
Co. was converted to a public co. in
1927, 14 years after the establishment of
the business. The scrip was listed on
the Melbourne ’Change in 1929, and
between then and the outbreak of World
War II shareholders were invited to take
up new shares on five separate occasions,
in addition to receiving bonus-shares in
1935 and 1937.
Getting back into its stride after the
war, the co., in the space of seven years,
purchased the paid capitals of Gilray
Stores, Selfridges, F. & G. Stores, Rhoades
and Co., Manton and Sons and Penneys,
Ltd., as well as acquiring two big Sydney
properties, Stewart Dawson Chambers
and Sydney Arcade. With stores obtained
by these transactions and new stores built
or leased by the co. the number of units
trading rose from 93 in 1948 to 250 at the
end of last term.
Shareholders have put up a large part
of the funds needed to finance this
phenomenal rate of growth and, with the
exception of a one-for-five issue in 1949,
all post-war cash-issues have been made
at par. Keeping up the reputation of the
scrip as a leading “growth” stock, bonus-
shares (on a three-for-10 basis) went out
last April, while applications for a three-
for-10 cash-issue close this month. On
completion of this issue paid capital will
amount to £11,725,675 (including £150,000
in 8 p.c. prefs.), representing an average
increase of almost £1 million per annum
over the last 10 years. (Rights to the
cash-issue are not transferable, but, after
applying and paying for the new shares,
shareholders may obtain provisional
letters-of-allotment, transfers of which
will be received by the co. between
November 15 and December 31 of this
year.)
As was the case .after the previous
bonus-issue, last term’s gift was followed
by a proportionate reduction in the div.-
rate (15 p.c. in the four preceding terms),
while the rate applied in the current
term is expected to be not less than 11£
p.c.
Anticipating a return to the higher div.-
rate in the not-too-distant future as well
as further opportunities to take up scrip
at par, the sharemarket prices the f.-p.
ss. ords. at 17s. 3d., to return a modest
3.3 p.c. from an lly p.c. div.
After a 15 p.c. rise in the previous
terrh, turnover of the co. and its sub-
sidiaries jumped by £9,356,830 to
£46,283,109 over the year to June 30 last,
group profit, after deducting the share
due to minority-shareholders, increasing
by £408,125 to £1,669,080, at which figure
it represented 3.60 p.c. on turnover against
3.41 p.c. in 1956:
/ -Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. /—r Ord. N serves. serves/*
£ £ p.c. & ’ & £
’53. 699,644 12,000 15 = 547,233 140,411 1,242,211
Revaluation assets, £1,363,516 .. 2.605,727
Share premiums, £28,558 .. .. 2,634,285
From tax reserve, £189,192 .. .. 2,823,377
Profit sale assets, £4215 .. .. 2,827,592
Goodwill, etc., \v/otf, £61,510 . . 2,766,082
’54. 865,938 12,000 15 = 554,761 299,187 3,065,269
To staff fund, £50,000 .. .. 3,015,269
Tax overprovided, £41,674 .. ..3,056,943
Profit sale assets, £555 .. .. 3,057,498
To revaluation reserve, £5545.. 3,051,953
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £114,705 .. 2,937,248
’55.1,151,865 12,000 15 = 721,189 418,676 3,355,924
To staff fund, £60,000 ~ ' .. 3,295,924
Profit sale assets, £52.087 .. .. 3,348,011
Goodwill, etc., w/off, £50,842 .. 3,297,169
Tax overprovided, £20,020 .. ~3,317*189
To staff fund, £50,000 . . .. 3,267,189
’56.1,240,728 12,000 15 = 892,405 342,323 3,609,512
Parent ano Subsidiaries.
Added on consolidation, £326,583 .. 3,930,095
Less difference between par- and book-
value of shares in subsidiaries,
£867,373 3.068,722
Revaluation assets, £1,232,792 ..4,301,514
Reserves capitalised, £2,054,853 . . 2,246,661
Profit sale assets, £118,244 .. .. 2,364,905
Tax overprovided, £22,709 .. .. 2,387,614
Less adjustment, minority sharehold-
ing, £l9 ..2,387,595
’57.1,669,080 12,000 12.6=1,025,144 631,936 3.019,531
* After deducting intangibles, £867,373 at 30/6/’57.
Claimed after larger provisions for tax
(£1,184,533* up £286,596) and depreciation
(£360,780, up £77,198), the earnings
covered the pref. div. and 18.6 p.c. on the
bonus-enlarged ord. capital, compared
with 20.9 p.c. in the previous term and
(parent’s accounts only) 23.7, 23.1 and
18.8 p.c. back to 1953.
Despite the rapid growth of share-
capital, it has barely kept pace with the
growth of the organisation as a whole,
and total shareholders’ funds accounted
for only a little more than 51 p.c. of the
balance-sheet totals at the end of last
term, long-term liabilities (including
£875,000 of the £1,925,000 purchase-price
of Penneys) increasing by £1,406,725,
while the amount due to creditors rose
by £444,834 and the overdraft by
£180,560:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1955. - 1956. 1957.
Pref. ... £150,000 £150,000 £150,'000
Old. . . 4,807,928 5,949,513 8,904,366
Reserves .. 3,566,085 3,068,722 3,019,531
Minority interest 309,643 464,903 464,884
Notes 600,000 1,500,000 2,000,000
Balance owing on
properties, etc. 312,800 134,620 _ 958,942
Mortgages .. 2,397,798 3,021,105 3,102,864 •
Overdraft •* 180,343 444,539 625,099
Creditors .. 1,120,607 1,691,110 2,135,944
Staff fund .. 88,065 107,080 282,465
Tax provision.. 715,153 906,925 1,184,533
Final div. .. 480,793 594,951 682,668
£14,729,215 £18,033,468 £23,511,296
Freeholds .. 7,669,187 8,725,513 11,593,454
Leaseholds .. 880,618 1,265,344 1,259,952
Fittings, etc... 1,769,811 2,617,532 3,520,618
Stocks .. 4,149,759 5,239,228 6,437,163
Debtors .. 139.564 122,398 587,671
Cash, bonds .. 120, 63,453 112,438
£14,729,-215 £18,033,468 £23,511,296
Reflecting the Penneys transaction and
subsequent revaluation as well as the co.’s
own building and remodelling pro-
gramme, the cost-or-valuation figure
shown for freeholds increased by
£2,867,941 over the year, a net £903,086
being added to the c ost-/es.s- d e precia t i o n
book-value of plant, fittings, etc. Stock
(up £465,273) increased at much the same
rate as turnover, and although book-debts
rose sharply (up £465,273), they amounted
to only 1.5 p.c. of turnover. Including the
current cash-issue, net tangible assets at
June 30 last provide a cover of a shade
under 6s. 4d. for each f.-p. ss. stock unit.
Giving no sign of a reduction in the
rate at which new stores are being erected,
the co. commenced the current term with
seven new units under construction and
further additions to the Australia-wide
chain planned. However, expansion over
the last couple of years has not been
limited to the opening of new branches,
the co. increasing the size of its market
by extending the range of merchandise
carried by most of the branches, par-
ticularly the fresh- and frozen-food lines.
Frederic Ash, Ltd.
in N.S.W. showed a
falling-off last year, and Frederic
Ash, Ltd., with headquarters in Newcastle
and branches in Lismore (opened 1910),
Cessnock (1924), Wollongong (1928) and
Leichhardt (plateglass, shopfronts, etc.,
only), suffered its first che6k to turnover
since it was formed into a public co. in
March, 1951. The co. is an old-established
builders’ and plumbers’ supplier.
Apparently the high activity in city
building did not compensate, in Frederic
Ash’s case, for the drop in homebuilding.
Perhaps the Sydney activity was not
paralleled in the Coal City. The co. in the
past has profited from the general expan-
sion in both the Newcastle and Kembla
steelworks areas and«from the prosperity
of the northern rural centres where its
branches are. In addition, it has a “sub-
stantial interest” (acquired 1933) in R. S.
Exton and Co." Pty., Ltd., of Brisbane
and Toowoomba. The co. is also in-
terested in Vencore Veneers Pty., Ltd.
(coreboards), and Harlequin Products
Co. Pty., Ltd. (disinfectants, polishes,
liquid-soaps, etc.).
The board reports that no provision
has been made in the accounts for “a
loss incurred by the subsidiary” during
the year. This is apparently the veneer
company, shown separately in the
accounts for the first time in 1953, and
now valued at £48,250, with an additional
£21,414 on advance. In each previous
term the subsidiary showed a profit, the
extent of which was not revealed, but
which was ploughed-back each year.
Last term Frederic Ash itself “became
associated in the establishment of a
veneer-peeling plant, to ensure regular
supplies to the subsidiary company.”
After setting aside £49,400 for taxa-
tion and £4048 for depreciation, net profit
of the parent for the year was £72,419,


compared with an adjusted £89,062 for
the preceding term:
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. f Dividends x serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1951.-67,946 15 p.c. = 34,500 33,446 145,989
Net additions, £5471 .. .. , c 151,460
1952.. 68.192 12i p.c. = 33,750 34,442 185,902
Back taxes, £l5B .. .. •• 185,744
1953. .70.157 124 p.c. = 33,750 •
Pro\ision long-service ■ 28,292 214,036
leave, £Blls ..
Back taxes, £930 . . .. . • 213,106
1954.. 87,017 ,15 p.c.= 40,500 ]
Provision long-service i 37,517 250,023
leave, £9OOO .. J
1955. .111,804 174 p.c.= 47,250 64,554 315,177
Tax overpravided, £12,648 .. .. 327,825
1956.. 89,062 15 p.c.= 40,500 48,562 376,387
1957.. 72,419 15 ~,,40,500 31,919 408,306
The result was equal to 26.8 p.c. on
capital, compared with 33, 41.4, 32.2 and
26 p.c. in the four preceding years. The
dividend was comfortably maintained at
15 p.c., and the addition of £31,919 to
reserves carried them up to £408,306,
equal to 30s. 2d. a share, and naturally
a great help to capital in profit-earning.
Since conversion six-and-a-half years
ago, nearly 225. a share has been added
to reserves, while shareholders have been
handed 19s. 6d. a share in dividends in
the same time.
Ploughed-back profits have been the
chief source of finance for most of the
102 years of the co.’s existence, reserves
being capitalised from time to time.
With the aid of strong reserves, the
co. appears to operate its business around
a nucleus of conservatively valued fixed
assets and stocks:
1955. 1954 k 19.57;
Paid capital .. £270,000 £270,000 £270,000
Reserves .. ... 315,177 376,387 408,306
Overdraft.. .. 55,035 151,406 157,458
Creditors, etc. .. 191,277 161,202 161,217
Due to subsidiaries 9,509 3,880
Final dividend .. 33,750 27,000 27,000
£874,748 £989,875 £1,023,981
Plant° ldS ” } 183,635 192,278 191,775
Shares subsidiaries 48,250 48,250 48,250
Shares other cos. 68,683 68,689 73,691
Stock .. .. -353,450 410,872 382,048
Debtors . . . . 220,300 264,772 278,988
Due bv subsidiaries 1,793 44,877
Cash .. .. 430 f 3,221 4,352
£8J4,748 £989,875 £1,023,981
Stock-values came down by £28,824 last
term ; fixed assets, an untidy mixture of
freeholds and plant since the 1955 balance-
day, showed little change. There was a
rise of £5002 in shares in other cos., and
advances to the subsidiary rose by
£43,084. Book-debts were £14,216
higher.
There was little movement on the lia-
bilities side.
Many years having passed since the ven-
ture began, shareholders are now entitled
to more information about the subsidiary
than is given in the accounts and annual
report. The parent’s p.-and-l. account even
lacks a separation of investment income
from trading income. Except that it
would give some clue as to how Exton’s
are doing, it is hard to see how publication
of this separate information would be of
more value to competitors than it would
to shareholders.
On actual results, however, those who
took-up the shares at 375. 6d. in 1951
have little to complain about. The 20s.
shares are now selling at 51s. (down a
little following the drop in profit), and
at that figure the yield is £5 17s. 6d. per
cent, on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Nor’-West Whaling Co., Ltd.
'TAKING over the Carnarvon whaling-
station from the Commonwealth
Government at the beginning of last term,
Nor’-West Whaling promptly demon-
strated that the £BBO,OOO it agreed to pay
for the station was money very well spent,
latest accounts disclosing a net profit
almost 2\ times the previous term’s figure.
Incorporated as a proprietary co. in
1950 to acquire a partnership business
which had operated from Pt. Cloates
(W.A.) in the previous year, Nor’-West
Whaling obtained public status in 1951,
issuing 196,000 10s. ords. at par to raise
paid capital to its present total of
£270,000.
Well equipped with chasers and
auxiliary craft, the co. operated from its
Pt. Cloates base up to the end of the 1955
whaling-season, transferring its head-
quarters to Carnarvon (roughly 150 miles
south of Pt. Cloates) at the beginning of
last season.
Mainly sought for its nutritive value,
whale-oil is also used in several manu-
facturing processes. Most of Nor’-West’s
output goes to European buyers, the
stock-feed (whale-meal) and fertiliser
produced from the carcasses being sold
on the local- market.
The shortage of edible-oils
and fats stimulated interest in whaling,
and to prevent a serious reduction in the
number of whales the catch of each
whaling concern is limited to a quota,
based on the quota allocated to the area
by the International Whaling Com-
mission.
The acquisition of the Carnarvon
station,, carrying a quota of 500 whales,
doubled the catch allowed to Nor’-West
last season, the co. treating the 1000
whales for 8356 tons (up 4194 tons) of oil
and 98,395 bags of whale-meal and dry
solubles, the entire output being sold at
“satisfactory” prices.
Although the transfer of certain plant
and equipment from Pt. Cloates to Car-
narvon added to expenses, “substantial”
economies were effected by merging the
operations of the two stations. Gross
profit foi the year to March 31 last rose
from £250,884 to £613,509, and, although
expenses claimed an extra £30,454 (at
£60,086), net profit jumped by £163,351
to £274,266 after allowing £189,500 (up
£108,000) for taxation and £91,042 (up
£54,885) for'depreciation:
To Re- Re- s
March, Profit. , Dividend serves. senes.
£ ££,£,
1952. .128,513 20 p.c. = 54,000 74,513 21,663
1953.. 68,724 20 „ ~ 54,000 14,724 36,387
Expenses disallowed for taxation,
capitalised, £54,038 .. .. .. 90,425
1954. .117,908 20 p.c. = 54,000 63,908 154,333
1955. .116.389 20 „ „ 54,000 62,389 216,722
Tax overprovided, £7312 .. .. 224,034
Loss sale assets, £3544 .. ... 220,490
1956. .110,915 20 p.c. = 54,000 56,915 277,405
Tax overprovided, £554 .. .. 277,959
1957. .274,266 30 p.c. = 81;000 193,266 471,225
Steady at 20 p.c. over the five preceding
terms, the div.-rate was lifted to 30 p.c.
following last term’s improved showing,
but, despite this increase, the amount
retained in the business was £136,351
higher at £193,266, earnings equalling a
return of 101.5 p.c. on paid capital, com-
pared with 41.1, 43.1, 43.6 and 25.4 p.c.
back to 1953.
Purchase of the Carnarvon station was
responsible for the major balance-sheet
movements, including the £729,939 addi-
tion to fixed assets, the co. paying a
deposit of £350,000 as well as reducing
the balance owing (secured by mortgage
and repayable over three years) by
£223,000, relying on undistributed profits
to finance the transaction. As a result
there was a considerable deterioration in
the liquid position:
1955. 1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £270,000 £270,000 £270,000
Reserves .. ~ 216,723 277,406 471,226
Mortgage .. 307,000
Creditors .. ... 15,145 5,295 26,091
Tux provision ... 142,697 81,500 189,500
Final div. .. 27,000 27,000 40,500
£671,565 £661,201 £1,304,317
Plant and machinery 200,339 213,396 737,793
Vessels . . .. 114,639 102,054 166,582
Other fixed assets.., 33,230 35,494 176,508
Stocks and stores 30,563 34,625 120,377
Debtors- . . . . 1,285 5,764 89,566
'Cash, bonds, etc. 291,509 269,868 13,491
£671,565 £661,201 £1,304,317
By the end of the term current liabilities
exceeded current assets by £32,657, but,
although some outside money might have
been needed to meet the seasonal demand
for funds, all major stores, etc., required
for the current whaling season were in
hand at balance-date, while the co. was
carrying an extra £83,238 in book-debts.
By August 25 last the co. had taken
740 of the 1000 whales allotted to it in
the current season, and, given a continu-
ation of favorable whale-oil prices, there
should be no difficulty in maintaining a
high level of earnings even in the event
of a reduction in the whale-quota.
The f.-p. 10s. ords. have a net tangible
backing of 275. 5d., and at 50s. 3d.
(31s. 9d. a year ago) would return
£5 19s. sd. p:c. from a 30 p.c. div. The
scrip is listed on Melbourne and Perth
’Changes.
Mt. Lveil (Tas.)
TACED with tumbling copper prices
-*■ on one hand and an unexpected drop
in the grade of ore on the other, Mt.
Lyell was hard put to show a profit last
term. In the final reckoning income from
the co.’s extensive outside investments
exceeded the loss on mining operations,
but after making bonus-payments to
employees the margin was small and it
was necessary to draw on reserves to
cover a sharply-reduced dividend.
Exhausting its reserves of high- and
medium-grade ore almost 30 years ago,
Mt. Lyell has continued to mine low-
grade copper ore, mainly by opencut
methods, but, until the Korean war and
American stockpiling sent copper prices
soaring, the bulk of its income came from
shareholdings in public and associated
cos.
Divs. averaged 5.7 p.c. for the 10 years
to 1951, rising (with copper prices and
profits) to 10.1 p.c. over the past six
years, despite a cut in div.-rate last term
from 16.1 p.c. to 6.6 p.c.
To obtain the high throughput and
degree of efficiency essential for profitable
treatment of low-grade ore, the co. has
been adding to, and improving, its plant
for a considerable number of years (the
cost-fess-depreciation book-value of plant
doubling over the past seven years), with
a consequent improvement in the rate and
efficiency of production. Last term a
record 4,236,211 tons of material was


•>»•...
0
How
about my
Life
Remind Dad about a Child's
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW80&1
m
British Oil Engines
(Australasia) Pty. Limited
• a
Brush Electrical
(Australia) Pty. Ltd.
have now merged and become
Brush Group
(Australia) Pty. Limited,
BRUSH
Head Office: 66 Clarence Street, Sydney— Branch Office: 281 Latrobe Street, Melbourne
Distributors in all States
taken from the mine, and,
although the ratio of over-
burden to ore increased slightly
(1 to 0.67, against the previous
term’s 1 to 0.68), the tonnage
of ore both mined and treated
was also a record. Values
were lower, however, the grade
slipping from 0.660 p.c, copper
to 0.583 p.c.:
Total Over- . Assay
Materials, burden, Ore, Copper,
Tons. Tons. Tons. p.c.
’54..2,923,462 1,347,714 1,575,748 0.714
’50..3,337,977 1,735,778 1,602,199 0.657
’56*2,833.174 1,678,433 1,154,791 0.660
’57..4,236,211 2,529,735 1,706,531 0.583
* Nine months only.
The 1,706,350 tons of ore
treated (up 145,350 tons)
yielded 35,670 tons of concen-
trates assaying 22.4 p.c. copper,
compared with an annual rate
of 35,523 tons of 23.8 p.c.
copper in the preceding nine-
month term.
With the carryover from the
previous period, a total of
38,521 tons of concentrates
went to the smelter to give
8466 tons of blister-copper (up
1154 tons) with a fine-metai
content as follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. Oz. Oz.
1954 .. 8938 32,979 4712
1955 .. 8283 31,282 4874
1956* .. 5358 24,236 2993
1957 .. 8404 29,547 5528
* Nine months.
In addition, 58,027 tons (up
7027 tons) of pyritic concen-
trates was produced, sales of
pyrites exceeding the year’s
production.
An examination of the West
Lyell ore-bodies, following the
fall in grades, indicated that
the impoverished layer from
which the co. had been extract-
ing ore was not repeated at
lower depths and should not
affect the quantity or grade of
ore-reserves. These reserves
were estimated at June 30 last
at 43,327,000 tons (down
1,700,000 tons) averaging 0.73
p.c. copper, 0.0650 z. silver and
o.ooBoz. gold, enough to keep
th*e mill busy for over 25 years
at last term’s rate of throughput
—but hardly rich enough to cope
with last term’s copper prices.
Prospecting and diamond-
drilling in the Mt. Lyell area
produced encouraging results
over the term, and further
drilling is being carried out on
what has been described as
the “first entirely new copper-
discovery at Mt. Lyell for over
50 years.” However, a state-
ment from the chairman (W. E.
Bassett) includes the warning
« that, at this stage, the find can
be regarded only as an
“interesting prospect.”
The co. has also joined with
E.Z. Industries in an extensive
exploration programme cover-
ing a large area of south-west
Tasmania.
The average price received
for all copper sold in Australia
fell by £ll9 per ton over the
last financial year,-and although
Mt. Lyell doesn’t state the
average price obtained for its
output, the amount shown
against “blister-copper account
and sundry income” dropped
by the equivalent of £508,338
over the term.
As a result there was a loss
of something like £173,000 on
mining operations excluding a
£57,842 interest bill but includ-
ing employees’ bonus of'
£142,445:
June 30, June 30,
Income— 1956.* 1957.
Copper, etc. .. £2,798,094 £3,222,454
Dividends . . 228,421 253,057
Total . . £3,020,515 £3,475,511
Exes.—
Mining . . 950,881 1,501,410
Refining, smelt-
ing .. 937,377 1,508,832
Development,
depreciation 235,570 - 196,419
Administration,
etc. .. 272.519 104,310
Total .. £2,396,347 £3,310 971
Net profit .. 630,168 164,540
Employee bonus 88,258 142,445
... .. , ( p.e. 16.1 6.6
Dividends | amt . £ 0 80 ,937 £155,000
* Nine months only.
Investment income was £24.636


fiailJi in ific
4
My creed for Australia’s advancement has
always been clear of party politics, but I cannot
help expressing pleasure that Queensland’s new
Government is trying to interest Southern capital
in the State’s industries, and is encouraging the
move to send an investment-attracting mission
to overseas countries.
The splendid Royal National Show I saw
in Brisbane recently was renewed proof of
Queensland’s primary wealth, to which is being
added now an amazing cycle of mineral discovery.
And the prospects for interesting capital from
overseas are brighter at this time than ever before.
A report prepared at United Nations
headquarters in New York for meetings of the
U.N. Economic and Social Councils at Geneva
shows that the world flow of private capital rose
to record levels last year. Britain was among the
large contributors, but America led the field.
The net outflow of long-term capital from
the U.S.A. almost doubled in 1956. It reached a
record of about 3000 million dollars (£A1335
million). A large proportion of this went to
Canada and Latin America. Preliminary figures
point to the outflow of capital from the United
States being even larger in 1957.
Attraction of American capital to this country
need not imply any weakening of our place in the
British Commonwealth. Professor, D. W. Brogan,
the distinguished holder of the Chair of Political
Science at Cambridge, was reminding us on his
recent visit that the United States and Britain
and Australia are severally and mutually linked;
that the U.S.A. is deeply involved in the Pacific,
practically and also emotionally since the last war;
that it has a Pacific as well as an Atlantic interest.
By every sign, now is the acceptable time for
Queensland to act on its need for investment—as
Victoria did with its cordially received business
mission to the U.S.A. earlier this year.
And because the success of this move means
so much to the whole national economy,
Australians in every State will be wishing it well.
There are no State borders to Prosperity.
// //as
7
Futui+e
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 * Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
and Trade Marks. — Advt.
stronger at £253,057, the co.,
after allowing £63,504 (down
£88,549) for depreciation, but
making no provision for taxa-
tion (£205,000 in 1956), claim-
ing a net profit of £164,540, as
against £630,168 in the nine
months to June, 1956. The tax-
free div. required £155,000,
and, with the employees’
bonus, exceeded the profit, by
£47,445. However, £250,000 of
excess tax-provisions (accumu-
lated o’ver the past 11 years)
was brought to light, reserves
increasing by a net £202,555.
The £164,540 represented a
return of 7 p.c. from paid capi-
tal compared with 36.1 p.c. in
the 1956 term, income from
dividends alone equalling 10.8
p.c. ort the same figure.
Current assets, including
stores and pyrites, £894,977,
and metals, etc., £992,033,
amounted to £1,941,584 at
balance-date (June 30 last),
current liabilities totalling
£720,787. Investments, com-
prising scrip in Metal Manu-
factures, Email, 1.C.1.A.N.Z.
and four associated fertiliser
cos., were valued at a conserva-
tive - £2,978,637, and, with
current assets, exceeded all
liabilities by £2,049,436.
The co. has a paid capital of
£2,325,000 in f.-p. £1 ords.,
buyers offering 225. 4d. for the
scrip, at which price there
would be a return of £5 19s. sd.
p.c. from a 6.6 p.c. div.
With little prospect of an
early improvement in copper
prices, copper-producers have
requested assistance from the
Federal Government to enable
“continuity of operations.”
The matter was referred to the
Tariff Board earlier this year,
but the board’s findings have
yet to be made public. Mean-
while current copper prices
make it almost impossible for
the co. to handle its low-grade
ore profitably.
South Alligator Treatment
X>Y helping to combat one
** of the area’s biggest
problems transport costs
United Uranium’s decision to
erect a treatment-plant on the
South Alligator uranium-field
could alter the outlook for a
number of neighboring
uranium-producers.
South Alligator Uranium,
N.L., which holds leases
adjoining United Uranium’s
workings, announced last week
that it had proved the Rockhole
deposit (averaging 1 p.c. U 308)
over a length of 563 ft. and a
width of 3ft. and had now
suspended mining-operations in
favor of continuing the ore-
search both eastwards and
westwards. (The South Alli-
gator cos. have the opportunity,
up to the end of this year, of
entering into a contract with
the U.K. Atomic Energy
Authority for the sale of
uranium ore.)
Another co. which could
benefit from new plant,
N.A.U.C., commenced open-cut
extraction of low-grade ore
towards the end of last July,
while United Uranium itself
has recently commenced mill-
ing ore from the Palette mine.
Only six months ago the
United Uranium board
announced that it was planning
to send its uranium ore to the
Rum Jungle plant, about 180
miles away, but the directors
now consider that enough ore
has been developed at El'
Sherana and other South
Alligator mines to warrant
erection of the new plant.
The capital-outlay involved
is stated to be “comparatively
low,” as it is intended to use
the solvent-extraction process
successfully introduced in
American plants earlier this
year. With a capacity of
30,000 tons of ore a year there
will be room for a reasonable
quantity of ore produced by
other cos. on the field, and
some ore now regarded as
marginal ore could probably
be -handled on a profitable
basis.
Commonwealth Mining
'T'HE two-year-old Common-
wealth Mining Investments
(Australia), Ltd., will make its
first distribution to share-
holders (sd. per f.-p. 10s. stock-
unit) next month. The 4 1-6
p.c. div., of which half will be
tax-free, will absorb £41,666
of the £54,177 profit claimed
by the co. in a preliminary
statement issued last month.
Most of Commonwealth
Mining’s investments are in
well-established div. - paying
concerns, but scrip has also
been obtained in recently-
formed mining cos., including
Western Titanium, N.L., and
Timor Oil, Ltd., while share-
holders have been given the
opportunity to participate
directly in co.-flotations in
which their co. has been
interested.


Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO MR. A. L. FENNELL late of Dee
Why.—TAKE NOTICE that JOYCE
FLORENCE FENNELL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4130 of 1952 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 13th December 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from OSBORNE ALLEN & SON,
Solicitors, of 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
WHY SUFFER FROM
RHEUMATISM
OR
ARTHRITIS
THIS WILL INTEREST YOU v
When Mr. R. A. Stratton was given an old Indian formula for 1
the relief of Rheumatic complaints some 30 years ago, he had no
idea that one day he would be sending the Powder around tho
world to relieve sufferers. “Naturally, as a strong, robust youth,
I thought little about it at the time,” said Mr. Stratton, “but in
later years I became a chronic Arthritis sufferer myself, so I had
the formula made up by a chemist and took a course of th*
Powder for some months, which effected a complete cure.
“I naturally sympathised with anyone else who had been
similarly afflicted, so 1 decided to have the Powders prepared
in commercial quantities so I could help the numerous sufferers
from Rheumatism arid Arthritis, and I must confess the result*
have been amazing.”
The Company started selling the
Powder some 3 years ago, and for
a stait its sales were limited to
this State, blit, as a result of its
success, it was quickly acclaimed
a WORLD HISCOVERY and its
fame spread throughout Aus-
tralasia and Overseas until we now
have a world-wide clientele of
over 20.000 and we have obtained
an enviable reputation for our
ability to bring relief to all types
of RHEUMATIC COMPLAINTS.
This result, we are proud to say,
has been achieved without the use
of harmful drugs or painful injec-
tions.
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC and
ARTHRITIS POWDER, by a
unique combination of its drug-
free ingredients, can only do good
and cannot harm the system, and
in addition to its other qualities is
an excellent blood specific, laxative
and diuretic, and by stimulating
the organs and promoting a better
and purer blood supply
will eradicate the cause of your
complaint from the system in a
natural and effective manner. No
other medicine is necessary. It
cannot harm the heart., nor will it
interfere with any other course of
treatment and will further assist
jou to attain a better state ol
health.
Both mild and severe cases hava
been effectively treated, and per-
sons who had been almost para-
lysed and crippled with hands, feet
and joint pains can now use their
limbs with perfect freedom from
pain, and numbers of- cases have
been reported where men are back
at work as a result of the use of
our Wonderful Remedy, and note —
this has been accomplished by the
use of only one teaspoonful of our
Powder daily—nothing could ba
simpler.
Prepared from the purest and
finest ingredients, the Powder is
a NATURAL REMEDY and NON-
HABIT FORMING, contains NO
DRUGS and can be taken with
perfect confidence by young and
old alike who are afflicted with
complaints of the RHEUMATIC
GROUP.
Sufferers who have had Cortizone,
A.C.T.H. Gold Injections, Ray
Treatment —all alike have found
relief with our proven remedy, of
whose record we are justly proud.
Thousands have found relief from
suffering. WHY NOT YOU?
A ... 4 WEEKS’ SUPPLY CARTON, Instruction Pamphlet,
TREATMENT ADVICE and SPECIAL CONCESSION
RATE VOUCHER if your complaint needs further
treatment . . . costs only £1 POST FREE. Send to: —
STRATTONS RHEUMATIC POWDER Pty. Ltd.
9 BARRACK ST., PERTH, W.A.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
'T'HAT the Wolfenden Report
A on homosexual offences
and prostitution was a tricky
and perilous undertaking is
plain from the fact that, though
the members of the committee
took three years to sift and
resolve their evidence, they
were unable to reach final
agreement on a number of
points. . .
True, there was only one
dissentient from the bold and
highly controversial recom-
mendation that homosexual
behavior between consenting
males in private should no
longer be a criminal offence ;
but minority reservations were
also expressed on other aspects,
mainly distinction or degree of
penalties, that were matters of
inconsistency gather than of
principle.
These divergencies are signi-
ficant if only because they,
point to the immense, perhaps
insuperable, difficulty of
reforming the legal code when
it conflicts with the moral code.
It is, perhaps, unfortunate that
the two offences were lumped
together in one investigation,
for the one is covert but com-
paratively unimportant, while
the other is blatantly overt and
an ugly blemish on the capital
and other large cities. In other
words, the one problem is to
modify the law in accordance
with up-to-date knowledge and
the practice of other countries,
while the other is to clean up
the streets.
A vexed and stormy passage
lies ahead. Despite the weight
of informed opinion (from the
Howard League, the Anglican
and Catholic churches and
other bodies) behind the con-
troversial recommendation, will
public opinion stand for the
legalising of unnatural sin?
And, as with the dissentients on
the committee, how is agree-
ment to be reached on degrees
of abomination?
Public opinion, recoiling with
horror or disgust or squeamish-
ness, will also have some diffi-
culty in accepting the com-
mittee’s axiomatic distinction
between crime (acts injuring
others or offending against
public decency) and sin
(whereby no harm is reputed to
be done other than to the
sinners). Moreover, if and
when the prostitutes are driven
from the streets, that will not
be the end of the nuisance.
A fair summing-up, perhaps,
is that public opinion has still
some way to go in awareness
and understanding before it is
ready for such frank, no-
nonsense realism as is expressed
in this report.
Where the Money Goes
According to the latest blue-
book, the pattern of individual
spending changed scarcely at
all between 1938 and 1955.
Out of every £l, slightly more
went to food (6s. 6d.), durable
household goods (Is. 5d.) and
private motoring (9d.). Un-
changed items were alcohol
(Is. 4d.), clothing (25.), enter-
tainments (4d.) and travel (9d.).
One-fifth less was spent on
housing, fuel and light (2s. 7d.),
but expenditure-on tobacco (Is.
5d.) rose by 70 per cent. And
the balancing item, “other
expenditure,” fell by Is. to
2s. Bd.
This is surprising, to say the
least, for it suggests that the
pattern of life, too, is un-
changed. It would be interesting
to know whether the tele-
vision-set is included in “enter-
tainment” or “durable house-
hold goods” and how this
latter item has managed to
absorb so comfortably the
outlay on furniture, washing-
machines and other useful but
expensive gadgets. It is also
remarkable that tobacco is the
only heading which reflects the
incidence of heavy taxation.
With building - costs rising
steadily, mortgages at p.c.
and the removal of rent-control
imminent, the proportion
devoted to housing must surely
increase, but, no doubt, the
1955 figure represents the vast
numbers of married couples
living with in-laws.
Is there a fallacy? Perhaps
so. Despite the figures being
adjusted for price-changes, they
do not take into account the
fact that most households
contain not one breadwinner
but two or more, each of whom
on average is earning four
times the 1938 rate.
One learns with some
astonishment that salaries have
increased more than wages,
The reason is soon apparent,
Industry employs more salary-
earners—they now represent
19 per cent, of the labor force
and averaged last year £716,
compared to the wage-earner’s
£482.
Very remarkable, too, is the
revelation that personal savings
increased by £450 million in
1956 to a total of £1504 million
(i n 1951 j t was on i y £2OO
million); Granted that contrac-
tual savings have contributed
substantially to these figures
the achievement is still consid-
erable, representing two-fifths
of the total savings and financ-
ing, in effect, the increase in
the country’s net investment.


CHILD DELINQUENTS
By DON JORDAN
WHEN I first met Mr.
A. J. McDonald, he
was lying quietly on
the table in the
casualty-room at Parramatta
Hospital. There was white dust
all over the front of his railway
ticket-collector’s uniform and
patches of it on his face. It was
pepper.
The doctors had just finished
getting it out of his eyes.
Mr. McDonald said as he lay
there: “J asked them for their
tickets —that's all. There were
two of them. The front one
said ‘So you want our tickets,
eh?’ With that he knocked off
my glasses. The second one
threw the stuff in my face.”
- In handling the story, the
morning - papers respectively
described them as “youths” and
“hoodlums,” and both after-
noon-papers as “bodgies.”
Some time after I had left
Mr. McDonald that night I
called in at a near-by police-
station. The old sergeant,
slowly typing, two fingers,
nodded when he saw me, shook
his head when asked “Anything
doing?” (
I told him about the ticket-
collector. The sergeant took
out his tobacco and papers, and
then he said a lot more than
I had heard him say before.
“You know, we haven’t got
one bad criminal working in
this district now and yet
we’ve never been busier,” he
said. “It’s kids. Some of them
are just nuisances and some
are a lot worse than that. I’ll
tell you one thing you can
write about. I said we haven’t
got a criminal now. What’s it
going to be like when this mob
of kids we have got grow up?
Give them five to ten years . . .
what’s it going to be like then?
“Have you ever had a look at
the Children’s Court figures—
the ones that get as far as the
court?” he added. “Take Liver-
pool, just one police-division.
They had 103 cases there in one
day. There was a queue coming
in all day. One kid had a
record going over two pages
typed close, and he was 17
years old. It’s about the same
everywhere out here.”
The old sergeant’s “out here”
means the fringe suburbs, where
Sydney is growing a lot
faster than many people realise.
It’s the same territory that
Superintendent Dan Caiman,
Chief of the C. 1.8., referred to
when quoted on Sydney’s
changing crime-pattern. He
said, in effect, that the tough-
sounding places like Woolloo-
mooloo, Darlinghurst and
Surry Hills were quiet little
centres, but that the police
were kept very busy out where
the city was reaching.
“What do you put it down
to?” I asked the sergeant.
“I think the war had a lot to
do with it,” he said. “The war
“Thought so —concealed Weapon!”
came right in their formative
years. The ages of the kids
support it. There were a lot
of mothers left at home then
to rear boys and girls who were
at* an age when they most
heeded a father.”
'TTHEY call them juvenile
B delinquents, but the old
sergeant might have been nearer
the mark in his simpler
reference to “kids.”
He and other police have told
me that in nearly every case it
is not the young criminals but
their parents who ought to be
appearing in the dock.
Bodgies, widgies, hoods,
car - thieves, safebreakers,
murderers, bashers, burglars—
see any of these “juvenile
delinquents” in a charge-room
dock. Look at their faces.
They are kids all right.
But juvenile delinquents is
what the authorities call them.
On other aspects of the
problem, having agreed on a
name for it, some of the experts
seem to hold different views.
In a radio-talk, N.S.W.’s
Judge Clegg said that crimes
of violence by juveniles—crimes
including murder, use of
lethal weapons, robbery and
assault, were increasing con-
tinually.
One reason for delinquency,
he said, was the innate naughti-
ness in all children. He thought
the deep cause was in the home.
He did not believe that
gangster pictures, horror comics
and the like were responsible
for juvenile crimes. But to him
these things seemed “dangerous
food” on which to rear
children who Jacked good
homes.
He thought juvenile crime
would drop if parents would
cease to devote so much of
their time to their own selfish
activities. Perhaps they might
have to suffer indignities and
unhappiness’ to keep their
homes together. But if the
effort meant they would be able
to give affection and care to
their children, it was worth it.
Summing-up, Judge Clegg
ruled that delinquency, like
charity, began at home, and
at home was the best place to
tackle it.
✓
PROFESSOR FRITZ
DURAS, long-time Pro-
fessor of Physical Education at
Melbourne University, has said
he thinks today’s youth is,
generally speaking, better than
that of the Victorian era.
But today’s youth had the
very difficult task of adapting
itself to a quickly changing
society.
It was a lot harder to jump
on a moving train than one
that was quietly puffing at the
station, and to catch the express
that is today’s way of living
the young people had to te
very deft indeed.
He said there were vandals
in every community, but for
every 10 of them in ours, there
were 1000 good young types.
Worried by their State’s
juvenile-crime figures, the Vic-
torian Government studied the
problem and decided the best
answer was in youth organisa-
tions. They appointed Pro-
fessor Duras chairman of their
Youth Organisations Assistance
Committee.
About the same time
N.S.W. Welfare Minister
Dawkins called a conference on
juvenile delinquency. After-
wards, he wrote to every
mayor and shire president in
the State, suggesting to them
that the problem was some-
thing they could help to fight.
There are all sorts of views
about it, including those of
N.S.W. Police Commissioner
C. J. Delaney, who has said
that reports in some news-
papers about delinquency have
been misleading; that the
problem is not as bad as it
has sometimes been painted.
Put together, the views of
all those who have been in
print on the subject clergy-
men, teachers, marriage-
guidance experts, psychologists,
wardens and parents —and there
would seem to be about as
many different opinions on the
subject as there are people
interested in it.
THE following is one opinion
a little different from the
rest, partly because it took the
man who gave it 30 years to
reach it.
He really said a mouthful
when he did speak. Some parts
of it were reported at the time,
but important bits haven’t seen
print.
The speaker was Mr. W. R.
Lawrence, former Deputy
Commissioner of Police in
(Continued on page 57)


Use cool, clean lather + Super-shA? Blue Gillette Blade + Gillette quic.k-action razor
I
•for the quickest; slickest
most refreshing shave of all time!
Lino up the ideal combination of a beard soft with
lather and the sharp Blue Gillette blade that slip*
deftly from dispenser Into your quick-action razor,
then feel the smooth, effortless glide of a razor always
kind to your skin. Wonderfull Leaves your face sleek
as a billiard ball and so stimulatingly refreshed.
Gillette
*
QUICK-FEED
DISPENSER
SET
12'-
Dispensers may be purchased
separately in 10 and 20 blade
sizes 4/4 and 8/8.
Good morntnqs" begin with Gillette
Ri/IA


SKIDS
By
BRIAN JAMES
HARD times were
coming to the great
Graham Street High
School. For a new
Head had lately arrived, Mr.
McAlpine; a little man, but
awful in activity, efficiency and
ruthlessness. Quite a Napoleon,
in inches and ambition.
Mr. McAlpine decided,
though not without some cause,
that the older men were clogs,
spanners, dead wood, decayed
limbs, handicaps, burdens,
incubuses (or incubi) and a
number of other things. He
had a trick of mixing his
metaphors. Particularly did his
eye-of-disfavor light upon the
gloomy Mr. Selwyn and the
fussy Mr. Calder.
These two, he considered,
were the deadest wood of all.
He must be quit of them. For
the sake of great Graham
Street he must. And, inci-
dentally, for his own sake. He
spoke, rather indiscreetly and
unfeelingly, of putting the
skids under them. That’s how
he expressed it—putting the
skids, or fixing the skids, under
them. Skids! It was not a nice
way of saying it at all.
Now, sixty-five, under the
sacred Regulations, marked the
limit of a man’s'service. But
one could be compulsorily
retired at sixty. That depended
on medical inspection—if the
Departmental doctor said you
were no longer fit, out you
went. And did your best hence-
forth to live on your pension,
whatever it might be. It just
depended on what you had
been paying-in for superannu-
ation.
So Mr. Selwyn was gloomily
peering at the sixty-line. The
gloom was largely a part of
"his nature, but it was also
financially induced. He was
due for a very small pension,
and retirement at sixty meant
a big loss: five years of salary,
no less.
“Yes, indeed,” he kept say-
ing, “I won’t be getting as
much as the old-age pension.”
Such aspects of Mr. Selwyn’s
affairs did not worry Mr. Mc-
Alpine. And why should they
—when Efficiency was an end
in itself? In his pessimism Mr.
Selwyn felt that he was ear-
marked for the skids.
Mr. Calder, who was only
a few months younger than
Mr. Selwyn, was, however, not
gloomy. He was all fussy and
foolish optimism. No axe about
to fall for him. No sword
hanging on a thread. No skids
being fixed. He indulged the
illusion that he did the work
of any two men. And good
men too. Certainly he didn’t
believe that he made more
muddle than any three men.
No matter what muddlers they
were.
It was not unnatural, there-
fore, that Mr. Calder could see
great benefits arising from the
compulsory retirement of Mr.
Selwyn. He didn’t tell Mr.
Selwyn that, of course, but
elsewhere* he made no close
secret of it. In fact, he did his
little bit to bring about the
downfall of Mr. Selwyn.
COMETIMES Mr. Calder
v would artlessly saunter off
when no one was looking, or
Mr. Calder thought no one was
—for all the world like a
turkey hen making for h?r
secret nest —and visit the new
Boss in his office. A perfect
blending of smugness and
humility, it would be: “Yes,
Mr. McAlpine . . .” “No, Mr.
McAlpine . . “And I was
just thinking, Mr. McAlpine”
. . . “Jolly glad to do it, Mr.
McAlpine”; with the new
Boss- more determined than
ever to fix the skids under Mr.
Calder as well.
“Oh, dear,” said the new
Boss one day, “what is that?”
“Um!” groaned Mr. Calder
meaningly.
“What did you say, Mr.
Calder?”
“Me—oh, I said nothing, Mr.
McAlpine. Nothing at all.”
There was a noise coming
down the corridor, flowing
down the corridor like a
turbulent river. The new Boss
diagnosed the uproar as an
unattended class and darted
off to see about it. The noise
stopped and left an almost
aching silence ; which meant
that the new Boss had arrived.
Mr. Calder smiled knowingly,
evilly. He knew ; oh, yes, he
knew.
lhe new Boss returned soon
after. If he didn’t say skids he
was looking skids.
“That old fool,‘’Selwyn ! Left
his ciass. Happens every day,
twice a day, three times a day.”
“Um, Mr. McAlpine. Yes,
indeed, Mr. McAlpine.”
“It’s intolerable.”
“Of course, he can’t help it,
Mr. McAlpine. Steye can’t help
it.”
“Steve!”
“Mr. Selwyn, you know. He
can’t help it any more” - -
, “What do you mean, Mr.
Calder? Can’t help' it?”
, “Oh, it’s not for me to say,
I’m sure, Mr. McAlpine. And
I am sorry for Steve Mr.
Selwyn. It’s just his weakness,
you know.”
“I can see that, Mr. Calder.”
“Poor old Steve Mr
Selwyn! You know what the
boys call him?”
“No, I don’t.”
“Dave. That’s what they
call him.”
“Dad and Dave—that silly
sort of thing?”
“Oh, no, no. Not at all.
Short for St. David, you know.
Patron-saint of Wales, you
know.” Again Mr. Calder
tittered.


“Don’t see it, Mr. Calder.
What of it?”
“And,” said Mr. Calder, with
the becoming seriousness of one
who would put over a joke
effectively, “the national flower
of Wales is the leek! That’s
why they call him Dave.”
It took the new Head a long
time to see it. Mr. Calder stood
on the brink of that awful pit;
a really good joke not under-
stood and appreciated. Then
the new Head saw the point
and was greatly disgusted. Mr.
Calder immediately accommo-
dated himself to the mood.
“No help for it either, Mr.
McAlpine, It’s a terrible dis-
ability, I’m sure.”
'T'HE new Head continued to
be disgusted, And no
doubt a result of this disgust
was a notification to Mr.
Selwyn that he see the Depart-
mental medical officer.
Mr. Calder said, \yhen Mr.
Selwyn got the notice to go,
“Cheer up, old boy, cheer up
-—you’ll be all right, Steve. If
you’re not fit, who is? Tell me
that!”
The utter heartiness of this
at once cheered and nettled Mr.
Selwyn. He was being
patronised by that doddering
futility of a Calder! By God,
yes, Calder putting it over!
So Mr. Selwyn, with an effort
of dignity, replied, “Of course,
I'll be all right, Joe. Why
shouldn’t I be all right? Sound
as a bell, I am. Except, for
that.”
“And you needn’t mentipn
that, Steve. He’ll never find
out.”
“Sound as a bell,” repeated
Mr. Selwyn. He was a tall,
stooped, baggy, scraggy man.
His thin long face was criss-
crossed with lines like a big
railway-junction. Up and down
his long throat an Adam’s
apple shuttled fearsomely with
the upsurge of emotion. And
brown eyes peered suspiciously
and accusingly through in-
ordinately bushy brows.
Then Mr. Selwyn straight-
ened-up and worked his right
arm like a semaphore five or
six times, bringing his bony
fist to rest at last near his ear.
His whole frame quivered with
the teflseness of the exercise.
With his left hand he tested
the biceps of his right arm,
and proudly and defiantly
invited Mr. Calder to do the
same.
“Feel that, Joe! Just feel
that!”
Mr. Selwyn let the mighty
muscles go home and nearly
collapsed with his recent effort.
“Fancy, Joe, doubting my fit-
ness to go on!”
CO Mr. Selwyn, dressed-up
and groomed, went forth
to seek the medical officer at
the appointed hour. The place
was in a distant and old part
of the city that was new and
strange to Mr. Selwyn. He
couldn’t help feeling that decent
people kept from these ways
so strange to him. Old, dis-
reputable buildings in the
winding, dirty street were being
elbowed and jostled by great
new square structures of brick
and steel and concrete.
The big building turned out
to be the City Morgue. Mr.
Selwyn didn’t shiver; he just
rattled. Every bone of him
rattled. The City Morgue! He
had heard of such a place, to
be sure—as one hears of
Babylon and Jericho. But not a
real place at all. Not real —
one in his ordinary, decent way
of living had no call to make
it real . . .
Ah, here! At last! A gaunt
square new building. And the
gracious medical service; the
directory board said so.
TTE found the lift. Not the
sort of lift he had been
accustomed to at all. But a
blank wall, and you’d never
know it was a lift, except that
the wall opened and yawned
and some queer people walked
out of the aperture, which
closed after them.
Then he saw the
button and the invitation
“Press! ” He pressed the button.
Nothing Not a
thing. Not even a sound. Then,
with no warning at all, the wall
was cleft by a door sliding
back, and there was the lift. He
could have yelled—the lift was
empty. A solitary cell with a
light in it.
Mr. Selwyn told himself this
would never do. He was really
putting the skids under himself,
going on like this. He must
take himself in hand.
He stepped into the lift and
shut the door. And before he
could press the Four the lift
gave a silent shuffle and he had
the sensation of moving. Move-
ment as silent as the flight of
an owl. Movement as swift as
a ride on the skids. He
couldn’t tell if he went up or
down. Only that he was
moving somewhere.
Then the thing stopped, and
the door slid open at the
fifth floor. He stepped out of
the blasted cell. Dammit, but
he’d walk to the fourth floor.
To hell with a lift like that!
He was just about to go
when a girl came round an
angle in the corridor. She was
carrying a cup and saucer. He
noticed that. Also, without
•much effort, that she was quite
a nice girl. Quite out of keep-
ing really with the place . . .
Now, a witbh or a crone or a
hag
The girl smiled; under-
charitably. “You're
looking for the medical 'officer,
are you not?”
How the hell did she know
that?
“Y-e-s,” quavered Mr.
Selwyn. “Th-the lift”
“I knpw,” said the girl.
“When you are not used to
them, that is. Going down to
Fourth myself. Come along.”
Such a nice girl. Young and
pretty. What on earth, here of
all places! Lipstick, but not
overdone. Eyebrows un-
plucked—sensible girl, and on
the left cheek a very little mole,
but not at all disfiguring—well,
perhaps it was good that Mr.
Selwyn could notice such
details.
“Here we are,” she said,
“and it’s first turn on your
right.”
She went the other way, with
her cup and saucer.
'T'HE narrow, regular cavern
opened into a large
chamber full of eyes. Mr.
Selwyn tottered into it. And
all the eyes turned on the one
swivel to watch him enter. One
piece of mechanism worked
all those eyes.
How many eyes? Count them
and divide by two and you
get the number of people!
But so far there were no people
—only eyes. Eyes, just eyes,
waiting and watching for him.
And as the eyes encompassed
him they turned to question-
ing: Who? What? And what’s
wrong with him ?
Then all the eyes bobbed up
and down—in perfect unison,
in mournful welcome. And
Mr. Selwyn murmured sub-
consciously “Good-morning!”
That broke the spell. The
eyes at once were converted
into people. And there were
ten of them, all absorbingly
anxious to know about Mr.
Selwyn and what he did here.
They were on a long bench
against the blank wall. A
generous shuffle went through
the line of them and space for
Mr. Selwyn appeared at the
end of the bench. Very decent
of them indeed.^
Mr. Selwyn said, “Thank
you, thank you very much!”
and sat down.
“Cold, isn’t it?” said his next-
door neighbor. A stout man
in neat and seedy clothes, with
a very straight nose and a
wheeze. And with very blue
eyes. “Cold,” he repeated.
“I’ll say it’s cold.”
Mr. Selwyn agreed.
“Reminds me,” said the
stout man. “Do you know it
reminds me of —what do you
think?”
“I know,” quavered Mr.
Selwyn. “I I passed it as I
came along.”
“Gee, but I guess you’re
thinking of the samfe place too.”
The stout man laughed
wheezily. He was a humorist,
a morbid humorist; his
privilege to find something
funny and cheerful in dead
things. Then he gave his right
shoulder a sort of heave,
towards the dim corridor.
“You too?”
“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Selwyn,
who took out his notification-
paper—his skid-paper, that’s
what it was—as if to make sure
that he was justified in being
there. “Oh, yes, indeed,” he
repeated. “Got to go through
the mill.”
“Same here,” said the stout
man, with another wheezy
laugh. “Through the mill;
that’s good! ”
\I?HAT was good was inter-
rupted by another girl—•
not such a nice girl. Too much
“do” about her, but complete
with cup and saucer. She ran
a practised eye along the
bench and detected Mr. Selwyn.
“I’ll take that,” she said,
looking towards his notification,
“in a moment.”
She went into a side corridor
that apparently opened into a
small den or cave. She came
out almost immediately with-*
out cup and saucer, took Mr.
Selwyn’s paper, glanced at it,
and said, “Dr. Sweetman will
let you know when he is ready
to see you.- Will you wait here,
please.” " , -
She went off and turned into
another corridor somewhere.
“Funny, that,” said the stout
man. “Sweetman —what do you
think of that for a name?”
The girl, still minus cup and
saucer, returned.
. “Miss Charker,” she
announced. “Will you come
along to Dr. Appleby now?”
A drooping woman, grossly
sallow and of no particular age
beyond 39, arose and went with
the girl.
“She’s had it,” said the stout
man.
“Who?” asked Mr. Selwyn.
“Her. Just gone along there.
Miss Charker. Growth, I’d say.
Liver. Look at the color of
her. Meet some queer cases in
a place like this.”
The stout man was very
cheerful about it.
“That door now—it gives me
the willies,” said another voice
a few places along the bench.
(Continued on page 56)


A PREMIER GAMBLES ON
OPERATIC LOTTERIES
■YIfHEN N.S.W. Premier Cahill, patron
of the arts and patron of bigger
and better lotteries, decided to exercise
both functions at once by promoting a
Really Big Lottery to finance the Sydney
Opera House he could, had he so chosen,
have quoted several precedents for the
respectability of such a marriage. It is
over 200 years since the British Museum
was established, largely as the result of
a lottery, and several times during the
18th and 19th centuries public institutions
in England benefited from the proceeds
of lotteries.
Not that Mr. Cahill would need to go
back so far to find justification for farm-
ing the gambling community to pay for
good works. Revenue from gambling is
a cornerstone of Government finance in
Australia, particularly in States where
Labor Governments have been long
entrenched. Totalisator-tax goes back
quite a long way ; betting-tax not so far.
But until comparatively recent years
lotteries were not only avoided as sources
of Government revenue, but forbidden to
private citizens as well.
This attitude was based on the convic-
tion that although the gambling’ instinct
seems to be firmly implanted in man it is
not an attribute of which he should be
proud and certainly not one to be
encouraged as a matter of Government
policy. The ban on gambling was
inherited along with the rest of British
law when the Australian colonies became
self-governing.
The English law banning lotteries can-
not be said to have been introduced pre-
cipitately. State lotteries had been part
of the English scene for 130 years when
they were abolished in 1826 and had been
conducted intermittently for a much
longer period. The first Elizabeth
authorised one to help pay for the upkeep
of harbors and fortifications. Forty-
thousand tickets were sold at ten-bob a
“lot.” The prizes were pieces of plate,
and the drawings, which extended over
several months, took place at the western
door of St. Paul’s Cathedral. James I
authorised a similar lottery in aid of the
new colony of Virginia.
Tatt.’s Came First
George Adams came up against this
ban when he first established his Tatter-
sail’s sweepstakes. N.S.W. and Queens-
land rebuffed him, but he found the Tas-
manian Government of the day more
amenable and Tatt.’s built itself a Hobart
home that endured for more than half-a-
Governments of the other States
no doubt envied the Tasmanian Treasury
the easy money that came from the tax
on Tatt.’s tickets, but they stuck to their
opinion that the practice was a trifle
improper and they refused to emulate the
example. Successive Federal Govern-
ments played rather a double game over
Tatt.’s. Lottery-tickets and lottery-
literature were on the list of articles pro-
hibited from transit by post and George
Adams’s Hobart address was listed as a
prohibited address, yet the P.M.G.’s
department made tens of thousands of
pounds a year out of postage on letters
containing application-forms, tickets and
result-slips and in poundage on money-
orders and postal-notes sent by mainland
“investors” to various addresses in
Hobart, said investors being careful (as
instructed) not to write the names
“George Adams” or “Tattersall’s” on the
- postal-notes. The limit in this hypocrisy
was reached when Tatt.’s raised the price
of their tickets from ss. to ss. 6d. and
the P.M.G. promptly issued a five-and-
sixpenny postal-note.
The first official State lottery was the
Queensland Golden Casket. Firstfruit of
the new era which Labor Government
brought to Queensland, it was set-up in
1916 and outlasted the State Meatshops,
State Fisheries, State Cattle Stations and
many other institutions of the Theodore-
Rvan regime. For the first few years of
its existence the profits of the Casket
were devoted to war and patriotic funds,
but in 1920 the present arrangements
were made whereby they are paid into
the Hospitals, Motherhood and Child
Welfare Fund, administered by the
Department of Health and Home Affairs.
Westralia established its Lotteries Com-
mission in 1932. Profits are handed to
hospitals and other charities.
400 Million Tickets
Kingpin of State lotteries, of course, is
the N.S.W. venture. Launched with the
blessing of J. T. Lang, in 1931, it will
probably pay-out its 4000th “ordinary”
first-prize (£6000) before the end of the
year. By that time 400-million tickets
will have been sold to the public at a cost
of more than £lOO million. These are
the “ordinary” lotteries at ss. 6d. a
ticket —that postal-note figure again. In
addition the Cahill Lottery Office offers
its “investors” “Specials” at 10s. a ticket
and “Mammoths” at £l, with first-prizes
of £12,000 and £30,000 respectively.
These are Mr. Cahill’s gifts to the hopeful.
He- has even given his own private-
secretary to the cause.
In announcing his Opera House lottery
Mr. Cahill said he expected each lottery
to yield about £170,000 profit, and it was
hoped to fill two or three a year, bringing
an average of £400,000 a year to the
Opera House until it was paid for. Much
thought has obviously been given to this
weighty matter. Suggestions for £25
tickets had been rejected because the srice
was considered too high ; and for thirty-
bob because that price might “attract
investors from the already existing £1
mammoth lotteries.” Mr. Cahill said that
in fixing the price at a fiver it was expected
that the investments would not harm the
income of the present State lotteries in
which tickets sold at ss. 6d., 10s. and £l,
and “a Government authority” was
quoted as saying that official quarters
had no fear that the lotteries would not
be fully subscribed because “no lottery
in Australia can match a first-prize of
£lOO,OOO for a £5 investment, or one
prize in 40, as this offers.. Most lotteries
offer one chance in 60 or one in 80.”
This easy assumption that a Govern-
ment can continue to increase its revenue
by multiplying its lotteries is morally and
economically unsound. It is one thing
to accept the fact that people will gamble,
and it is possible to make out a case for
drawing-off some of their stake-money
for the good of the community, it is
quite another thing for a Government to
deliberately foster gambling by offering
more and more facilities for so-called
“investment.”
Economically there must be a limit to
the amount Treasuries can rake-in from
this source, and there are signs that this
has already been reached. The State
gambling-dens are now competing with
each other for the spoils.
When the Cain Labor Government
induced Tatt.’s to transfer from Hobart
to Melbourne the Tasmanian Treasury
suffered a mighty blow —its revenue from
lotteries fell from £1,515,177 in 1953-54
to £574,677 in the following year.
Tasmanian Lotteries, by introducing
special lotteries with huge prizes, tempor-
arily restored the position—the Treasurer
received £1,056,267 in 1955-56 and
£965,308 in 1956-57 —but in his Budget-
speech last month he was forced to report
“a pronounced falling-off in the rate of
subscription to the large lotteries.” As
a result he budgeted for only £440,000
from lotteries in the current year, con-
siderably l?ss than half last year's total.
Saturation Point
Victoria, the gainer (in the revenue
sense) from the migration of Tatt.’s,
netted £2,598,354 in its first year (1953-
54), but the increase since then has not
been spectacular, and Mr. Bolte Has
budgeted for £2,950,000 for the current
year, slightly less than last year’s figure.
Queensland’s Golden Casket contribution
for 1956-57 was £1,821,986, slightly
higher than the previous year and slightiy
lower than in 1954-55.
N.S.W. lottery-revenue is still growing,
which probably accounts for Mr. Cahill s
optimism! It rose last year from
£4,236,720 to £4,627,510, and the Budget
estimate for the current year—which made
no allowance for the Opera House
Lottery, although it was presented only
a fortnight before the announcement—is
£4,700,000.
From the trend of these figures it seems
unlikely that the Opera House gamble
will be filled without affecting either Mr.
Cahill’s other lotteries or else the lotteries
of the other States. In either case it
means that the Opera House will be
financed at the expense of the hospitals
or—to the extent that the deficit is
recouped from consolidated revenue—of
the general taxpayers.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Horses —Sydney
AS expected, brilliant three-
year-old Tulloch (starting
at 9-to-4 on) won the A.J.C.
Derby with his ears pricked.
For less than two-and-a-half
minutes galloping he lifted
£7575 as his share of the prize-
money. Prince Darius, for a
distant second, earned £2OOO ;
and Turkestan, 14 lengths
behind Tulloch in third place,
narrowly defeated Young
Idealist for the £lOOO minor
money.
• • • •
Tulloch, though he won on
the bit, registered 2.29 9/10 for
the mile-and-a-half —a Derby
record. Phar Lap in 1929 ran
2.3 li, the previous record;
Monte Carlo last year ran 2.31
3/10.
• • • •
A winner of 10 races,
Tulloch has now won £28,682,
and hasn’t been worse than
second in 16 starts. He is well
on the way to becoming one of
the country’s greatest stake-
winners. For one thing, the
£7OOO Victoria Derby looks a
cinch for him, while he’ll give
the Caulfield Cup (£12,350) a
terrible shaking with 7.8.
Handicapped lib. above weight
for age in the mile-and-a-half,
he is also a first acceptor for the
Melbourne Cup, in which he
has 7.8, 21b. over the scale for
the two-miler.
Tulloch won’t find the Caul-
field Cup an easy task. *Few
winners of the A.J.C. classic
have been set for the Caulfield
Cup, which is the toughest
mile-and-a-half handicap on
the Ausralian racing calendar.
Most owners prefer to concen-
trate on the V.R.C. Derby.
However, Tulloch is such a
brilliant performer that his
party has decided that the
chance to win the V.A.T.C.
mile-and-a-half shouldn’t be
missed. Easy to handle,
Tulloch can take up any posi-
tion in a field. Not many
three-year-olds have won the
Caulfield Cup Palfresco,
Whittier, Bronzetti, Poseidon
and Sweet Nell did it.
Poseidon, in 1906, won both
Derbies and both Cups, a feat
that hasn’t been equalled.
Trivalve won the A.J.C. and
V.R.C. Derbys in 1927, then
the Melbourne Cup. He didn’t
contest the Caulfield Cup.
Timor (8 to 1) narrowly
defeated Grenoble (16 to 1)
and Landy (5-to-2 favorite) in
the A.J.C. Epsom Handicap.
Both winner and runner-up
were handicapped on Bst.;
Landy had 8.7. Weight (8.13)
stopped Teranyan, fourth after
looking dangerous at the St.
Leger. The winner deserved his
success: taking the lead soon
after the start, he held it to the
finish, stalling off all
challengers on the way. It was
“’ Roos , old boy! "
the win of a game horse,
capably assisted by the polished
riding of Queensland hoop
Russell Maddock.
• • • •
Main event on the A.J.C.
programme for the third day
(today, Wednesday) of the
spring fixture is the w.-f.-a.
£2OOO George Main Stakes, run
over a mile. The £l5OO mile
Flight Stakes, for three-year-
old fillies, will also be decided.
The carnival will conclude on
Saturday with the £3OOO
w.-f.-a. Craven Plate, run over
a mile-and-a-quarter.
Twelve months ago Kingster
narrowly defeated Somerset
Fair in the George Main
Stakes, with Fair Chance third.
The Craven Plate proved a
soft snap for Caranna, who
beat Advocate and Prince
Delville on a holding track.
Two of the most notable
gallopers Phar Lap and
Chatham —each had three wins
in the Craven Plate ; Gloaming,
Windbag, Beau Vite, Flight,
Prince Cortauld and Hydrogen
won the race on two occasions.
• • •
Though Mighty Kingdom,
first two-year-old winner of
the Sydney season, had been
beaten in a Rosebery barrier-
trial by Murchison after
winning a trial at Randwick,
he was much too good for
rivals in the Breeders’ Plate.
Mighty Kingdom returned a
£1875 stake to owner Adolph
Basser, who paid 5000gns. for
the colt as a yearling at the
Randwick auction last April.
His next engagement is likely
to be the V.R.C. Maribyrnong
Plate. Maurice McCarten
trains the Star Kingdom colt,
a first foal from the Manitoba
(imp.) mare Rare Pleasure,
whose dam Billie, by Beau
Pere (imp.), was a Randwick
winner. Rare Pleasure, success-
ful on provincial courses,
on one occasion at Hawkes-
bury covered 4\ furlongs in
53i seconds, which equalled
the Australian record. How-
ever, it was not clocked
electrically, and doesn’t figure
in the list of fastest,times for
the Commonwealth.
• • • •
Twenty-year-old ex-Queens-
land apprentice Mel Schu-
macher, on Baron Boissier,
handed out a riding lesson to
top jockeys who had' the
mounts on his opponents in
the Randwick Colin Stephen
Stakes. The senior horsemen,
intent on watching one
another—cat-and-mouse tactics
too much a feature of weight-
for-age contests —instead of
making an attempt -in the
middle stages of the mile-and-
a-half to bring the pacemaker
back to the field,- were beaten
a long way 'from home.
Young Schumacher made
every post a winner on the
outsider : 20 lengths ahead of
his nearest rival at one stage,
he gave the New Zealander a
breather, then spurted away in
the straight to score by eight
lengths. A little advice from
the stewards to all riders before
the start of future distance
events at weight - for - age
might be in order. Baron
Boissier, however, is a fine
galloper. He is set for the
Melbourne Cup, in which he
has 9.2.
• • • •
Post Early has won several
races, most of them away from
the metropolitan area. He has
had two city successes at
Canterbury and Randwick ; the
latest in the A.J.C. Trial
Stakes, when he narrowly
defeated hot favorite Caesar,
with Sales Boy third. The
four-year-old gelding must be
one of the few of the progeny
of the imported stallion Look
Ahead to race. Look Ahead,
who hasn’t figured much in
the Randwick yearling-
catalogue, was a stayer in
England, winning up to two
miles ; he was got by Signal
Light from Hydra by Spion
Kop. Woorapost, dam of Post
Early, was sired by Posterity
(imp.) from Woorama by
Woorak. The gelding could
win in better company before
long, as he is a free mover
with a staying background.
Harnham Hill again let his
stable down badly; he has
become a real problem for
trainer Les O’Rourke.
* * *
—and Melbourne
The racing spotlight centres
this Saturday on Caulfield,
where the V.A.T.C. will stage
the first day’s programme of
its three-day Cup carnival.
During the meeting the club
will distribute £46,000 in prize-
money.
• • • •
Feature races on Saturday
will be the Caulfield Guineas
(offering 5000gns. stakemoney),
the £3OOO mile Toorak Handi-
cap and the mile-and-a-half
Herbert Power Handicap
(£2000). Highlight of the
second day’s racing next
Wednesday, October 16 —will
be the £3OOO w.-f.-a. Caulfield
Stakes.
The mile of the Caulfield
Guineas is invariably run at
a sizzling pace, and the record
of the race indicates that the
winner usually develops into
a champion. In the last 20
years the roll of winners in-
cludes Ajax, High Caste,
Lawrence, Royal Gem and
Attley (who fought out a
memorable dead-heat in race-
record time, 1.36|), Hydrogen
and Caranna. Fillies find the
Guineas a hard race to win,
and the last one to score was


Missing Friends
Tlie Estate of JAMES WILSON de-
ceased.—TAKE NOTICE that the Public
Trustee of New South Wales is the
Administrator of the estate of the'above-
named deceased, who died Intestate, late
of Collarenebri, New Sduth Wales, on the
9th March, 1954. The deceased, who was
born on 11th March, 1889,' was a son
of JOHN WILSON (who died on the
Slst May, 1948) and BELLA WILSON
ne'e MeLEAN (who died on 20th July,
1894) and is believed to have had a
brother, ALEXANDER, who was born
at, Millicent, South' Australia, on the
6th December, 1884. If the said
ALEXANDER WILSON was living at
the date of death of the said deceased
he would be entitled to share in a dis-
tribution of the estate. If the said
ALEXANDER WILSON predeceased the
said deceased but left issue who survived
the said JAMES WILSON, such issue
would be entitled to share in a dis-
tribution of the estate. THEREFORE,
let the said ALEXANDER WILSON, or
any issue or their Legal Personal Rep-
resentatives, TAKE NOTICE that, un-
less a claim by them or any of them to
be the next-of-ltin of the deceased is
received by the PUBLIC TRUSTEE* 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney, New South
Wales, on or before the 9th day of
January, 1958, the Public Trustee will
distribute the estate of the said JAMES
WILSON amongst the next-of-kin of
whose claim he then has notice. —G. H.
BEALE, Public Trustee, Sydney.
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO SYLVIA LILLIAN LAU.—TAKE
NOTICE that MARGARET ELLEN
BOOTH has filed her Petition No. 4671
of 1956 in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales praying for a dissolution of
her marriage with her husband
LEONARD RIGBY BOOTH on the
ground of his adultery with you You
may apply to the Court to be let in to
defend the charge if you so desire A
copy of the Petition may be obtained
free of charge from CHARLES
GRIFFITHS, Solicitor for Die Peti-
tioner, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGIIAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO ROY JAMES GEARY late of Bin-
gara.—TAKE NOTICE that LUCY ISA-
BELLA GEARY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 767 of 1957 on the ground*
of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th day of December 1957 and
Obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 167-109 Elizabeth Street, Syd-
ney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
Midilli, back in 1920. Nomina-
tions for this year’s event
include the fastest youngsters in
the land, but. at time of writing
it is difficult to know how
many of them will accept.
Probable absence of Tulloch
gives the race an open appear-
ance.
• • • •
For the Guineas: Good
Summer, 1 ; Gay Saba, 2 ; King
Nero, 3.
The mile Toorak Handicap
is not usually a reliable Caul-
field Gup guide. Last horse to
win the double was Grey
Boots in 1950. Royal Gem
won the two races in 1946, and
then one has to go back to
1937, when The Trump com-
pleted the same double. None
of the fancied Cup candidates
is entered for this year’s Toorak.
Last year’s Guineas winner
Hot Spell is in good form ; he
should go close to winning.
Tudor Hill and Lord Gavjn
look dangerous.
Form in the Caulfield Stakes
next Wednesday should be
worth noting. In the last five
years Redcraze, Rising Fast
and Peshawar all presaged their
Cup success with a win in the
Stakes., Syntax is likely to run
in this year’s event, and should
have no trouble to win.
Syntax gave a further taste
of his quality when he handed
out a thrashing to Sailor’s
Guide in last Saturday’s mile-
and-a-half Turnbull Stakes at
Flemington, In the three-horse
field Syntax was forced to lead
all the way, with the Bendigo
horse sitting in the box-seat.
However, when “Sailor”
challenged in the straight, the
New Zealander shook him off
effortlessly. Neither weight nor
distance troubles Syntax, and,
for all his 9.9, he is the horse
to beat in the Caulfield Cup.
His record this season now
stands at four starts for four
wins.
• • • •
Surprise of the day’s racing
at Flemington was the defeat
of Cherete in the Edward
Manifold Stakes. Betting on
the race, with Cherete a 4-to-l-
on chance, indicated that the
result was a foregone conclu-
sion. After having the run of
the race, the Adelaide filly
seemed certain to score when
she dashed to the lead at the
distance. However, she had
no answer when a challenge
came from the Sydney-trained
Goldenway. It would seem
that for all her brilliance
Cherete cannot stay which
puts a much more open com-
plexion on the -classic events
for fillies in Melbourne this
spring. Trainer Don Smith
excused Cherete’s failure on
the ground that she needed the
run, but she bore a well-
trained appearance, and it will
surprise if she develops enough
stamina to be an Oaks
candidate.
• • • •
Former jockey Fred Shean
prepares Goldenway. Fred has
happy memories of previous
trips to Melbourne in his
riding days, particularly of his
1938 visit. That year he won
the Caulfield Cup on Buzalong,
the Melbourne Cup on Cata-
logue and the Williamstown
Cup and Eclipse Stakes on
Manolive.
• • * •
For once, favorite-backers
fared badly when the first two-
year-old events of the Mel-
bourne season were decided at
Flemington last Saturday. j ln
the ’ fillies’ division of the
Maribyrnong Trial Stakes Posh,
a daughter of Empyrean (imp.)
out of Victory Belle, scored
easily despite a drift in the
market. There was a poignant
touch to the result. Les
Aldridge, of Kismet Park Stud,
bred the winner, which he
intended to race in partnership
with his friend, Moonee Valley
committeeman H. W. Parbury ;
but Mr. Aldridge died last
Monday, and Posh raced in the
ownership of H. W. Parbury
and the executors of the
Aldridge estate. Fred Hoysted,
who has had extraordinary
success with early two-year-
olds, prepared Posh.
The colts’ heat of the Mari-
byrnong went to Sandhurst, by
Bob Major (imp.) out of Deori.
This is the first season the
progeny of Bob Major 1 have
raced. The new sire was a
good - class performer in
England, where he was bred by
Lord Rosebery. He won four
times as a two-year-old, and
was fourth in both the Derby
and St. Leger. Sandhurst is
owned by Doug. Wheelhouse,
a car-wrecker, who owns the
colt’s dam. Sandhurst is
trained at Pakenham, some
distance from the city, and had
not raced in trials. His
connections were able to get
nice odds.
The aged mare Pushover
showed that she is still capable
of turning on a good race when
she defeated a field of Cups’
candidates in the 13-furlongs
Stand Handicap at Flemington.
The mare has an Adelaide Cup
and an Australian Cup in her
record, and at the correspond-
ing meeting last year defeated
Ark Royal in the w.-f.-a. Turn-
bull Stakes. She has been a
wonderful money-spinner for
Adelaide solicitor Ray Brew,
who believes she can win this
year’s Melbourne Cup for him.
With only 8.7 to carry, Push-
over, who can get any distance,
won’t be the worst chance in
the big race.
Punters again pinned their
faith to Fighting Force in the
Stand Handicap. The horse
did run a close second, but it
was hardly a good enough run
to justify his high position in
the Melbourne Cup market.
However, he is a horse who
improves with racing, and while
he has a lot of convictions this
time up, he may be at his best
at Cup time—when it is most
needed.
Most of Victoria’s Derby
hopes ran in the 10-furlongs
October Handicap at Fleming-
ton, and the race revealed that
they are very slender hopes
indeed. Winner of the race,
Famed, is little more than
pony-size, and while he showed
by a win at Caulfield last May
that he has some ability, he
would have difficulty carrying
the Derby impost of 8.10.
Famed had a chequered run in
the October, and the fact that
he was able to go to the line
a clear winner says little for
the classic chances of the
horses that finished behind him.
• • • •
Bill Williamson went close to
having a jockey’s dream day
at Flemington last Saturday.
He scored a treble on Posh,
Syntax and Goldenway, and
his mounts in the other three
flat-races were all placed, none
of them more than a length
from the winner.
“R.J.S.”: South Australia’s
good- looking, gentlemanly
Bill Stocker has decided
to hand in his jockey’s
licence. Always noted for his
sartorial elegance and attention
to gear, he was also popular
with trainers for his hands-and-
heels riding; he has been
amongst the Stat&’s best for a
number of years. A flying-
officer in, the R.A.A.F. (air-
crew) in World War 11, he flew
on 35 operational missions.
* * *
Harold Park trot-fans wit-
nessed in a heat of the £2OOO
Spring Handicap last Friday
night an effortless exhibition
of pacing by one of the most
promising light - harness
horses in years—the six-year-old
product of the mating of Raglo
(Tas.) and Red Doll, Fettle. A
glossy-coated bay, he has the
length of Redcraze, well-
muscled shoulders, solid hind-
quarters and a proud head set
off by a shining black mane.
Sent out at 7-to-2-on in hi 9
heat, he might well have been
50-to-l-on for the way he won:
getting to the front soon after
the start, he led (under a doqble-
rap to the straight-entrance)
throughout for a ridiculously
easy win. Bannalagh, no flout
of a horse, took a deal of
punishment to finish a length-
and-a-half away second. Fettle
cruised the 13| furlongs at a
fast mile-rate of 2.10|. Although
the wins of New Memory and
Highland Jan were impressive
in the other heats, looking for
anything to beat him in the
final seem a vain search


ASDVICE TO
AIR TRAVELLERS
&
-I #:*
»*>
Si*
m
“Advice to Air Travellers” has
been especially planned by Qantas
to tell you about travel formalities,
baggage allowances, clothes,
etc. You’ll find it most
informative, so write in today
for your copy to:
Qantas Empire Airways Ltd.,
Advertising Department,
Box 489, G.P.0., Sydney.
THIS
AIR TRAVEL BOOKLET
is packed with good advice
WRITE IN FOR YOUR COPY NOWI
AUSTRALIA'S OVERSEAS AIRLINE
Qontos Empire Airways Limited (Inc. in Qld.) In association with 8 O.A.C. and TEAL
' ” 1 Q 61.82.77
And Sundry Sports
THE All Schools athletic-
meeting at Moore Park
(Sydney) produced, a batch of
records and other good efforts ;
some of the boys definitely
passed with honors. One par-
ticularly good burst was that
of St. Joseph’s Jim McCann in
winning the open 100yds. in
9.9 sec. John Lucas, of North
Sydney Tech., mentioned here
last week, ran two more
brilliant races, to win the
under-17 880yds. and mile,
both in record times. Two
records also fell to Ron Shaw,
of Tamworth (under-17 hop-
step-and-jump and long-jump),
while Hurlstone’s Jim Patter-
son set a new open 440yds.
record, and Riverview’s lan
Ingleby won the open 880yds.
and mile, his time in the mile
a new record.
* * *
Port Melbourne has been in
each 'of the last eight V.F.A.
grand-finals, but has won only
one, in 1953. Last Saturday
Moorabbin, playing its first
grand-final in its six years in
the Association, was too fast all
day for Port, to win the 1957
V.F.A. flag, 15.12-7.20. It was
also the first time Moorabbin
had ever beaten Port.
“K ejokada”: Several
prominent players, reaching
the veteran stage, have
announced their retirement
from the V.F.L. They include
a trio of Tigers, the unrelated
Rowes, Des and Havel, and
wingman Geoff Spring, all of
whom have been playing as
well as ever after*their 10 years’
service. St. Kilda skipper
Keith Drinan, the last re-
turned-soldier in the V.F.L., is
turning it in. So is North and
State full - forward Jock
Spencer, at his top perhaps the
best post-war spearhead apart
from Coleman. Footscray
vice-captain Harvey ' Stevens,
who’s also played with Colling-
wood, is finishing-up, too, as is
burly Fitzroy ruckman Norm
Johnstone, who has played
229 games for the Lions since
1944. Collingwood fullback
Jack Hamilton, who works at
V.F.L. headquarters, has also
retired. Last but not least,
Essendon skipper and 1953
Brownlow Medallist Bill
Hutchison, who played his last
game in the grand-final.
“Veter”: Minyip (Vic.)
Football Club has the knack of
keeping its players. This season
it fielded three veterans each
of whom has now playe’d 200
or more games for the club in
the major district league.
• • • •
“Vic”: Sons of former star
V.F.L. footballers did
pretty well this year. Best-
known are probably the
Twomey boys—there are now
two, but a season or two ago
there was a trio playing with
Collingwood. While Bob John-
son and Ron Barassi, of Mel-
bourne, have equalled—if not
exceeded—the fame of their
dads, Pratt and McLaughlin
(South), Stevens (Footscray),
Rayson (Geelong), Beasy
(Carlton), Gaudion and
O’Dwyer (North) and Des
Rowe (Richmond) are little
behind paternal standards.
* * *
“Kanimbla”: Grazing on
library pastures recently, I
came across a copy of E. L.
Owen’s History of the Rugby
Football Union (i.e., English
Rugby Union). Appended was
a list of English internationals,
and one entry—“E. S. Scorfield
(Percy Park), F. 1910” took
my eye. Interpreted: Bulletin
artist Ted Scorfield, who
played for Percy Park club,
represented England against
France in 1910.
* * *
“Slip”: Ken Mackay (B.
18/9/’57), on his Australian
record in recent seasons, should
have been one of the first
chosen in the side to tour South
Africa. Despite his failure in
England, he should be one of
the successes, because South
African conditions more nearly
approximate our own. Tayfield,
though many think him a
greater bowler than Laker
on hard wickets, should
have less terrors for our bats-
men (and particularly Mackay)
on the fast, true pitches and in
the clear atmosphere of the
Union.
“Old Pivot”: Not many
former leading cricketers go far
on the administrative side, but
one who did is George Davies,
Essendon stalwart, lately
retired after 38 years’ close
association with the game on
and off the field. A vice-
president of the V.C.A. and
a member of the Board of
Control, Davies managed the
1953 team to tour England. He
played with Essendon firsts for
20 years, in which time he
scored 7500 runs a club
record —and made 12 centuries.
* * *
“Btcky”: Visit by world-
champion table-tennis players
Toshiaka Tanaka and Ichiro
Ogimura has given a further
fillip to the sport in Victoria,
where the once-spurned game
of “ping-pong” has now
reached maturity—witness the
activities of the Victorian
Table Tennis Association,
which now controls 50 affiliated
associations and has 10,000
registered players on its books.
It is estimated that there are
a further 40,000 playing the
game in large factories, Govern-
ment offices and clubs through-
out the State. Interest in the
game is so high that the
V.T.T.A. has plans in hand to
establish a new £60,000 head-
quarters in Melbourne, situated
near Albert Park lake. Due
for completion this month, it
will be the largest and best-
equipped table-tennis stadium
in the world.
* * *
“Doormat”: Bobby Bath,
promising young Australian
amateur bantamweight champ.,
has decided to turn profes-
sional. Bath, who represented
Australia at the Melbourne
Olympic Games, has so far had
only two defeats in 50 fights.
He could have a bright future
in the pro. ranks.


The OVERLANDER SONG
BOOK: 58 songs with music. Aus-
tralian folk songs, including songs
of the Shearers, Drovers, Bush-
rangers, Diggers, Station Hands,
Convict Days. 127 pages,
illustrated. 8/- post free.
GEORGIAN HOUSE,
Publishers,
Box 52, Albert Park, Vic.
GENTLEMEN
Is there a firm interested in
employing the considerable energy,
talent and personality of a young
man whose career as a future
admiral unfortunately cut short
through injury ? Salary considered
secondary to'position of responsi-
bility and interest. C/o Box 910.
“Bulletin,” Sydney.
ARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
♦or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
JACiiWtfO’SIJLLIVANfMw.
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants .
To buy copy of Handy Hints for
the Farm. —6595.
To buy copy of Night of Flame,
by Dyson Carter; published in
America about 10 years ag0. —6596.
To buy copies of the following:
Australasiatic reminiscences of 23
years’ wandering travels with Dr.
Leichhardt in North or Tropical
Australia (Melb., 1857), by D.
Bunce; Production of Antibodies
(Melb., 1949; 2nd ed.), by F. M.
Burnet; Some account of the wars,
extirpation, habits, etc., of the
native tribes of Tasmania (Hobart,
1875), by J. E. Calder; Calvert’s
Discovery of Australia; The Struc-
ture and Development of Mosses
and Ferns, by D. H. Campbell;
History of Canterbury, New Zealand
(Christchurch, 1951), produced by
the Canterbury Centennial Associa-
tion. —6597.
Information Supplied
“Jackpot”: Re the query on the
Scottish horseman Galvain (B.
4/9/’57): 1 do not know any per-
sonal details, but 1 believe this was
the man whose name has been given
to Galvain’s groove, a small groove
occurring on the outside surface (lip
suriace) of the coiner incisor tooth
of the horse. The groove has been
used as a method of estimating a
horse’s age after the cavity marks have
disappeared. The groove grows out
with the tooth, emerging from the
gum at about 12 years and disappear-
ing from the top of the tooth at
about 20 years. I’m not sure
whether the groove appears in
every case; and, in any attempt to
make use of it, it would be best to
interpret it in conjusction with the
other indications of age—and when
no groove is visible do not assume
the horse is over 20.
Information Sought
Some advice on preserving old
paper-documents, books, etc., from
becoming britlled and decayed?
Paper differs so much in its make
and finish that no general rules for
•ts preservation can be laid down.
Its enemies are dust, damp, heat
and strong light. Documents should
be kept with as few folds as possible
in flat folders in drawers. If they are
very old and show signs of perish-
ing, they can be folded generously
inside sheets of good Cellophane
transparent enough to show through
foi reading; plastic is too untried at
piesent for this use, unless it is
guaranteed inert. If the papers have
plain backs, they can be gummed
to plain sheets of good paper to
allow handling ; but if they are
valuable, it is best to have micro-
groove films or photostats made of
them. (Any good suppliers of photo
materials will advise on this.) Books
should be kept cool and dry in
glassed-in dustproof bookcases, out
of strong sunlight. Once or twice a
year they should be dusted and aired
more thoroughly than usual. It is
quite impossible lor the private
owner to control humidity or other
climatic variations; in this regard
the chief librarian at your public
library would give you further
information suitable to your own
[Brisbane] climate, which is not an
easy one in which to preserve books-
and papers. But it is practically
impossible to restore those which
are already old and disintegrating.
* * * *
What exactly is, or was, the
SM’astika ?
A very ancient and widespread
decorative motif, its origin is uncer-
tain, but it is believed to be a sun
symbol, perhaps representing the
movement of the sun. The name
“ Pancho's been taking tranquillising-pills”
derives from the Sanskrit. In form
the swastika is a Greek cross, the
arms of which are all bent at right-
angles to one another. It has been
found on Llamite (Persian) ceramics
of as early a period as the fourth
millennium b.c. ; it has also been
found in pottery from Troy, Greece,
India, China, Japan, and was known
to the American Indians. It occurs
in Christian inscriptions from the
second century onwards. The
swastika, of course, was adopted by
the Nazis as their official symbol.
* * * *
A few details of a “French Fair”
proposed to be held in Victoria some
time next year ?
To improve trade and cultural
relations between France and Aus-
tralia, and to promote the sale of
French products in Australia, the
French Chamber of Commerce in
Victoria is organising a French Fair,
to be held in the Exhibition Build-
ing, Melbourne, from Sept. 29 to
Oct. 11, 1958. It is proposed that
the Fair be open from 11 a.m. to
10 p.m. daily (Sundays excepted).
Those invited to exhibit are French
manufacturers, indent-agents repre-
senting French manufacturers and
importers (wholesale and retail) of
French goods, Further details may
be had from the French Chamber
of Commerce in Victoria, 104 Queen
Street, Melbourne.
* * * •
Some information on the new
Australian Encyclopedia ? When
will it be available ?
The Australian Encyclopedia
(Editor-in-Chief, Alec H. Chisholm)
is due early in 1958. It will consist
of nine text volumes and one other
volume containing the index and
supplementary material. Each
article has been prepared by an
expert on the particular subject. The
nine volumes will contain moire than
4,000,000 words. Each volume
will contain between 50 and 60
black-and-white half-tone pages.
Ihere will be as well 54 full-color
plates, more than 250 black-and-
vhite maps, charts and diagrams,
a line-color map of each State and
two large maps of Australia in six
colors. The set will be printed on
best-quality Australian-made paper
and the volumes bound in a high-
giade buckram. Price of the set is
£5O; publishers, Angus and Robert-
son Pty., Ltd.
* * * *
Who, in classical mythology, was
Bellerophon ?
Son of Glaucus, King of Corinth,
and Eurymede, his name was
changed from Hipponous to
Bellerophon after having slain a
kinsman, Bellerus, by accident. He
then left his native land for Argos,
and unwittingly won the love of
Antea, wife of Proetus, King of
Argos. When he spurned her, she
turned her husband against him;
and Prcetus sent him to lobates,
King of Lycia, carrying, unbeknown
to himself, sealed instructions that
he be put to death. lobates gave
him the task of destroying the
invincible monster Chimaera; but by
the aid of the goddess Pallas, who
gave him the winged horse Pegasus,
he slew the monster. After over-
coming other hazards, lobates
relented, and gave Bellerophon his
daughter Philonoe in marriage. His
story is told in Homer’s Iliad, and
was retold by William Morris in The
Earthly Paradise. It is also told in
Rex Warner’s Men and Gods. (When
Napoleon surrendered after Water-
loo, it was to H.M.S. Bellerophon,
off Rochefort.)
Brief Answers
N.Y.: Suggest you contact Angus
and Robertson Pty., Ltd., 89 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney A.S.L.:
Write the Royal Zoological Society
of N.S.W., 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
P.A.C. (Malaya): Write the
Department of Cdstoms, Customs
House, Circular Quay, Sydney
0.F.: Doctor in Love, by Richard
Gordon* which is obtainable from
Angus and Robertson ; price, 15s. 6d.
(post, 10d.)... .M.F.G.: The
N.S.W. representatives for the
Mercedes-Benz are Merna Motors
Pty., Ltd., 59 William Street,
Sydney... .T.L.G.: (1) The fund
was inaugurated in 1923 by Sir
John Swanson, then Lord Mayor of
Melbourne, and incorporated under
ar. Act of Parliament in Victoria in
1930 (No. 3915). Its accounts are
subject to audit by the Auditor-
General. (2) Since its inauguration
the total raised exceeds £4,200,000,
an average of nearly £130,000
annually. For the past five years
contributions to the fund have
exceeded £200,000 per annum. (3)
Between 4 p.c. and 5 p.c., of which
approximately half is met each year
from income specifically obtained


STANFORD WRITING
SCHOLARSHIP
The Stanford Writing: Scholarship
is offered for a second time
through the University of Mel-
bourne to finance a young Aus-
tralian writer at Stanford Uni-
versity, Palo Alto, California, from
September, 1958, for one or two
years.
Applications, closing soon, should
be addressed to : Stanford Writing
Scholarship, C’/o The Registrar,
University of Melbourne, Carlton,
N.::.
NOTHING EQUALS
Warmra/s Amazing Efficiency
warm ray
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
m
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
•4r Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
JL- Heats over 5,000
cu. ft.
Modern artistic
'cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
iron.
■fc No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
P «U view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
•4r Lights in seconds
n warms entire room
in minutes.
No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
Your appreciaV^omrrnr,,,,
& most wSedWME HEATER
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
im
m
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amzzing Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL. BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere. ,
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217,
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
for tliis purpose. It is hoped that
in the near future the whole of the
operating costs of the fund will be
covered by income other than dona-
tions, thus enabling it to distribute
the whole of the contributions
received. (4) Write the Lord
Mayor’s Fund, Town Hall, Mel-
bourne G.T.R.: (1) Write Pastor
H. J. Halliday, President, Greater
Sydney Conference of Seventh-day
Adventists, 84 The Boulevarde,
Slrathfiekl, N.S.W. (2) World
membership 1,320,883; Austra-
lasian membership—4l,ooo F.H.:
Soil-less Gardening for Flat and
Home, by Maxwell Bentley, obtain-
able from Angus and Robertson
Pty., Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; price, 40s. (post, 15.)....
Blenner: Sorry, but there’s nothing
further on the subject in the books
available. Write the Australian
Museum, College Street, Sydney,
which might be able to help....
J.N.; Books (in English) on Sibelius
available in Australian, public
libraries include Sibelius, by Cecil
Gray (1931), of which there have
been later editions and impressions;
Jean Sibelius, His Life and Person-
ality, by K. Ekman (1936); Jean
Sibelius: a Short Story of a Long
Friendship, by Rosa Newmarch
(i 944); Sibelius: a Symposium,
edited by Gerald Abraham (1947);
and Sibelius and the Development of
Finnish Music, by I. Hannikainen
(1948), translated by A. Nopsanen.
.... D.C.; fronbark Bill, by Dal
Stivens, was published by Angus and
Robertson in 1955. It consists of
10 short stories, all featuring
fronbark, in the ultra-imaginative
Stivens manner....A.G.; “The
Way of the World” was written by
William Congreve (1670-1729); “She
Would If She Could,” was by
George Etheredge (16357-1691);
“The Beaux’ Stratagem,” by George
Farquhar (1678-1707); and “The
Country Wife” and “The Plain
Dealer,” by William Wycherley
(16407-1716). (2) The revival of
“The Beaux’ Stratagem" in 1949-50,
with John Clements and Kay
Hammond in the leading parts, ran
in London for 532 performances, the
longest run of a classical revival in
the history of the English theatre.
Norman Marshall, in an introduc-
tion to Three Restoration Comedies
U 953), says of this play, “Anyone
making first acquaintance with
Restoration comedy should begin
by reading ‘The Beaux’ Stratagem:’ ”
... .D.S.: (1) See Byzantine Art, by
D. Talbot Rice, published by
Pelican Books in 1954. . (2) See
The Rosetta Stc/ne and the Decipher-
ment of Egyptian Hieroglyphs, by
Sir E. A. Wallis Budge (1929),
which can be consulted at Sydney
Public Lib r a r y... .W.J.R.:
Sanchuniathon. the Phoenician priest,
is quoted by Keller’s The Bible as
History in confirmation of the
theory that the site of Sodom and
Gomorrah now lies beneath the
southern section of the Dead Sea.
Keller says “Sanchuniathon uses
these words in his Ancient History,
which has now been rediscovered:
‘The Vale of Sidimus [Siddim] sank
and became a lake, always steam-
ing and containing no fish, a symbol
of vengeance and of death for the
ti ansgressor.* ” Keller also quotes
Sanchuniathon in connection with
Solomon’s dealings with Hiram,
King of Tyre, and cites him as a
source of Philo’s history of
Phoenicia. However, he .does not
explain where or how his Ancient
History was rediscovered.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on
all MSS. No liability is under-,
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. should be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
J.C.: Slick.... 8.T.: Wafer-
thin. .. .R.L., 8.E.F., T.O'S., K.P.J.
and N.S.V.: Thank you for remind-
ing us that spring is here
R.W.Y.: No, thanks....N.J.:
\ou have fragments of a notion
mixed up with a most indigestible
poetic potion... . L. 8.: Pawn those
“wondrous ge m 5”... .0.M.8.:
We’ll have the end of your
fossicker:
One day because of hunger deep,
He packed'to go to town; ■
But when he tried to lift the gold,
It simptly pulled him down.
Then struggling to his feet once more,
He eyed the precious load ;
And knew his legs now grown so weak,
Could never make the road.
How sitting on his throne of gold,
He feels his hunger strong ;
The golden fruit he’d sell tor bread,
For now he sees his wrong.
As though in answer to a prayer,
A stranger then appears;
And listens to his tale of woe,
Related through his tears.
Good food is eaten thanks returned,
The stranger stands erect ;
Refusing gold with wave of hand,
And smile that was perfect.
Said: Go my friend to distant town,
Get help to tote jour gold ;
Then share it with jour fellow men,
Mj- thanks will be untold.
....W.R.: Waterfall too ambitious.
Be simpler... .P.F.: “Waltzing
Matilda” is a very nice poem as it
stands A. 8.: We don’t want
Kate, but are willing to inspect your
political articles... .T. 8.: You
must be the first to ha\e coined
the phrase “Two-pieced women.”
... J.N.: Wishful, but washy....
P.T.: Underdeveloped... , F.L.L.:
Clogged with superlatives... .E.T.:
Nearly made it that time... .W.A.:
Pruned your “gossamer-thin strands
of leafy glory”... .8.T.8.: Rough.
.... Dick: Didn’t click, Dick..'..
M.O’S.: Too forced and wordy.
... J.J.: . Goes to sleep after the
first stanza... .T.L.S.: You'd better
melt-down “Fools’ G01d”...-.
R. Winter poem a bit late....
E.W.W.: Tacky... .N.T.: Declined
your song about tramlines... .SJ.:
Hystericaf r anti ng.. ..K.R.N.;
Neatly etched characters, but that’s
about a 11... .N.F.M.: Rambles
along like wild ivy....E.J.: Very
slight... .O.B.: The surprise-ending
wasn’t A.V.; “Her gaze froze
me.” And us... .W.C.C.: Frankly,
there’s no room for a “little poem
on my Chinchilla, Tufty”....
J.K.: Has a rough semblance of
order... .C.F.: Seen a lot better.
N.A.: Just about pathetic
S. : Your plunge missed.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
WEST GERMAN ELECTIONS
"DRITISH and U.S. press-
comment on the West
German elections and Dr.
Adenauer’s victory “more
massive than was generally
expected” (London “Daily
Telegraph”):
London “Financial Times” :
“Dr. Adenauer’s election vic-
tory is a remarkable personal
and political achievement. Dr.
Adenauer, who is now in his
82nd year, has obtained a larger
share of the popular vote than
any party in Germany’s
chequered democratic history.
“His victory is clearly the
result of the success of his
policies. He has brought
Germany back after defeat and
given his country a position of
steadily growing importance
in world affairs. He has done so
by pursuing two fundamental
policies, both of them highly
controversial. He deliberately
allied Germany to the West, at
a time Avhen many Germans
believed that neutralism offered
the best prospect of reunifi-
cation. He put his authority
behind Dr. Erhard’s adroit and
adaptable policies of economic
liberalism, and those policies
in fact produced the ‘Prosperity
for All’ which became the
Christian Democrats’ economic
election-slogan.
“At the same time, although
there have been criticisms of
his personally autocratic
attitude to government Dr.
Adenauer showed the German
people—for the first time—that
democracy could produce
results superior to those of
dictatorial regimes, whether
they were Hitler's in the past
or East Germany’s in the
present.”
* * *
U. W. Kitzinger, in London
“Spectator ” „• “Dr. Adenauer’s
prestige and the country’s
booming economy, the lesson
of Hungary and the apparent
support of Washington on the
one and Moscow on the other
side, the financial support of
industry and the moral support
of the Church are sufficient ex-
planation of the vote.”
* * *
London “News Chronicle” :
“Under Dr. Adenauer the mass
of the German people have
indeed ‘never had it so good.’
The mark is one of the most
sought-after European cur-
rencies. The Saar has returned
to the Fatherland. The Federal
Republic is now a fully
sovereign State. All this has
come about under the aged
Chancellor’s tutelage and it is
natural enough , that the voters
should refuse to turn out the
man who has brought home so
much bacon.”
* * *
Roscoe Drummond in N. Y.
“Herald Tribune” : “This is a
victory which adds starch and
strength to the Western
alliance. This is a victory
which gives the Kremlin the
greatest pain. It is a victory
which yields Chancellor Aden-
auer a decisive mandate to
keep the West German Repub-
lie unwaveringly allied with
the West, and which assures
the continuance of a dynamic
free enterprise, unsocialist
economy in the most powerful
democracy of the Continent.”
The same: “Over and over
again Adenauer told the Ger-
man people that his Govern-
ment, faced with choosing an
alliance with the East or with
the West, chose the West irre-
vocably ; that Nato must be
preserved if Europe is to be
free ; that Germany must help
achieve a united Europe ; that
the only secure and worthy
future Germany can havp is
with the free world led by the
United States. To these ends
German voters have now given
an emphatic yes, and the Aden-
auer Government goes back
into office to do its part in
bringing- them about.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune”
editorial comment: “Dr. Aden-
auer’s principal opponents, the
Social Democrats, argued that
West German membership in
—London “Daily Mail”
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING?
Nato was an obstacle to Ger-
man reunification and that the
Bonn Government should
(with some qualifications) with-
draw from Nato. The Social
Democrats also opposed con-
scription as a means of meeting
West Germany’s obligations to
the defence of the free world.
And in the economic field they
claimed that their own
measures, not clearly explained,
would bring prices down and
that key industries would have
to be subject to ‘public control.’
The electorate has completely
rejected these contentions.”
The same: “The Social
Democrats are now complain-
ing that one of the factors
which helped to defeat them
was Communist opposition to
Dr. Adenauer. Every word
spoken in East Germany
against the Chancellor by the
Kremlin boss, Nikita Khrush-
chev, apparently only pro-
duced additional votes for the
present regime. West German
voters recognised that Mos-
cow would willingly permit
German reunification only on
the basis of Communist con-
trol, which is something neither
they nor their oppressed East
German brothers want.”
* * *
Edinburgh “Scotsman ” : “A
striking feature of the election
has been the progress made by
both main parties at the expense
of the smaller ones. This is
interpreted as a statement of
West Germany’s growing
preference for the two-party
system. So long as the drive
to centralisation does not con-
tinue until it produces a one-
party system, there is no cause
for alarm.”
,* * *
London “Time and Tide’’:
“Compare Dr. Adenauer’s
Germany 12 years after the end
of the war with the Weimar
Republic 12 years after the end
of the First World War. In
1929-30 Germany was dis-
integrating. The Central Gov-
ernment had little or no con-
trol left over the political life
of the country, the S.A. was
running amuck on a wave of
mass hysteria and Hitler was
already in the process of taking
over. Nothing but darkness lay
ahead.
“Contrast this with West
Germany today. It has a
thoroughly Constitutional and
highly moderate regime; the
country is in many ways the
backbone of a stable, peaceful
Western European community ;
many minorities, made up of
numerous categories of
refugees, have been granted


Fastest Airliner—Finest Service
srz
$
■
LONDO
SAN FRA
NEW YORK
>A-
Fly 8.0.A.C.
DC-7C “express”
San Francisco
New York
London!
STOPOVERS AVAILABLE IN NEW YORK
8.0.A.C. is the only airline operating
across U.S.A. that offers the combina-
tion of fast, smooth air travel and inter-
national standards of catering and cabin
service—with twice-weekly de luxe First
Class and Tourist flights.
De luxe first class passengers enjoy the
finest foods with vintage wines and
liqueurs; restful, fully-reclining de luxe
sleeper seats;-and a complimentary bar
service all the way. Private sleeping
berths available at nominal extra charge.
Tourist passengers enjoy, at a 20%
lower fare, a high standard of personal
service lounge chair comfort and
excellent free meals. Bar service is also
available all the way (at extremely
moderate charges.)
International air passengers may ter-
minate their journey in New York.
First airline to operate a two-way all-
year-round service across the North
Atlantic, 8.0.A.C. with 37 years of
operational experience, has looked after
millions of passengers all over the
world. And, in the art of passenger care
it’s experience that counts.
Remember it costs no more to fly
by 8.0.A.C. See your travel agent for
trip-planning help no charge.
Information and bookings from all leading Travel Agents and
r Empire Airways Ltd. (8.0.A.C. General Agents for Australia).
m/m
Of
World leader in air travel
• ■ ■ • IB •
takes good care of you
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS, TEAL AND S.A.A.
A/8/AU
asylum and feel safe and pro-
tected ; and Germany is
voluntarily committed to the
defence of a way of life gener-
ally described as democratic.”
The same : “The further fear
that Germany is drifting back
towards a dictatorship is
equally illogical and its ex-
pression mere mischief-making.
To restore a dictatorship
(which, at the age of 81, is
unlikely to be Dr. Adenauer’s
wish) the Constitution would
have to be drastically changed.
But no change is possible with-
out a two-thirds majority, and
the Government not only failed
to capture the necessary num-
ber of seats for this purpose
but would have been seriously
embarrassed had it done so.
“The fact is that the small
splinter-parties, which were in
reality no more than organised
pressure-groups, have largely
faded from the scene. The neo-
Nazi parties have disappeared
altogether as a political force.
Instead, the Christian Demo-
crats have been given a com-
fortable ruling majority while
the only other major, and
responsible, party, the Social
Democrats, attracted one-and-
a-half-million more votes, thus
becoming a real opponent to
Dr. Adenauer’s Government.
That, by any standard, is de-
mocracy as we know it in the
West.”
* * *
London “Economist” : “Vigi-
lant men are fully entitled to
look for similarities between
German politics today and in
the nineteen-thirties if they
choose. But in that case it is
worth while casting our minds
back in all seriousness and re-
calling the methods and the
atmosphere of Hitler’s rise to
power: for instance, the
murders in Bavaria and Berlin
on June 30, 1934, by which the
Germans learnt that their laws
and liberties were gone and
that, thenceforward, violence
was to rule in their public life.
The penguinlike passivity with
which the „ discovery was
accepted can be contrasted with
the vigilant criticism that the
German governing party has to
meet today when its methods or
its manners go astray.”
The same: “By the time he
[Adenauer] goes, the few
simple principles on which he
conducts German affairs, and
which the electorate has firmly
endorsed, may have become a
habit which his immediate suc-
cessor may neither wish nor
be able to shake off. Any


Largest Australian Coy
Conducting all classes of
FIRE
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
deliberate change of course is
probably remote.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian” :
“He [Adenauer] has been com-
pared with Bismarck, but he
might remember that Bis-
marck’s political system, how-
ever impressive and successful
during his lifetime, had one
fatal flaw: nobody but Bis-
marck could work it. He called
the Opposition ‘enemies of the
Reich’ and treated them as
such. Here was one of the
roots of the ultimate catas-
trophe which befell Germany
under Bismarck’s successors.
Dr. Adenauer has always been
a great believer in ‘negotiating
from strength.’ Now that he
has achieved the strength, he
must shift the emphasis to
negotiating, at any rate at
home.”
The same: “Dr. Adenauer
has proved a great leader.
What is wanted now is a great
teacher, one who instructs his
people in democratic behavior
by his example. His actions in
this field may well decide
whether his t o r y —and not
merely his contemporaries—
will record him as a great
statesman.”
Mr. Molotov
There is possibly something
appropriate in the posting of
Mr. Molotov—the “Abomin-
able No-man” of other days—
to Outer Mongolia after he lost-
out in the last tussle for power
in the Kremlin.
“He might,” comments New
York “Herald Tribune,” “just
as well have been catapulted
into outer space.
“This satellite region—it can
hardly be called a country —is
one vast, arid, wind-swept plain
3000 rfiiles from Moscow. It
supports a million Mongol
nomads who live in felt-covered
tents and drive sheep, cattle and
camels from one sparse pasture
to another. Agriculture there is
impossible. The capital, Ulan
Bator, has been recently under-
going ‘modernisation.’ It has
a two-story hotel, a theatre, a
university . and some Govern-
ment buildings.
“From time to time, dilapi-
dated automobiles creep
through its streets. Dried
sheep-dung is the usual fuel to
— N. Y. “Herald Tribune ”
ASIAN WOGS
keep out the cold of 40-below-
zero. winters, and a brew of
fermented mare’s milk, tea and
salt is a favorite national dish.
Of course, this is probably not
served at diplomatic recep-
tions.
“Mr. Molotov is as firmly
on ice as the Siberian mam-
moth. The world can for once
afford to indulge its sense of
irony, for, if Mr. Molotov had
won the struggle in the Krem-
lin, Mr. Khrushchev might
today be supervising the plant-
ing of his favorite corn in the
hinterland of Kamchatka. The
punishment is made to fit the
crime, and, like the billiard
sharp in ‘The Mikado,’ Mr.
Molotov is condemned to a
dungeon cell where he will
henceforth play extravagant
matches,
‘On a cloth untrue,
With a twisted cue
And elliptical billiard balls.* ”
Communism in the U.S.
“New York Times” sum-
ming-up of the condition of the
Communist party in the U.S.:
“The party’s membership,
including the bulk of such
working-class strength as it ever
had, has deserted it in droves
and the best guess its leaders
can make of its strength is only
10,000. The party has col-
lapsed completely in many
cities, including such important
industrial communities as
Cincinnati and Youngstown,
Ohio. The remaining few
thousands of active members
are divided by bitter factional
strife and their influence on the
great issues of our nation and
our time is imperceptible.”
U.S. Wool Imports
Reviewing the tariff quota on
U.S. imports of woven wool
cloths, the Fort Wofth (U.S.)
“Star Telegram” comments
that “it provides that if such
imports go above 14,000,0001 b.
in 1957, the tariff will auto-
matically rise to 45 per cent,
from the present 25 per cent.
The 14,000,0001 b. is supposed
to represent 5 per cent, of the
average United States domestic
output from 1954 to 1956.
“The idea was to help the
domestic industry protect itself
against the British woollen
mills, without making restric-
tions so severe as to get the
British mad at us or to upset
the interests of Japan and Aus-
tralia. As it is, everyone,
including the domestic industry,
seems to be upset.
“The British and the
Japanese both say they cannot
compete with American
mechanisation in the average
wool fabric, so they specialise
in only the finer grades, which
amount to a minor part of the
United States market. But the
American makers of fine
fabrics say the threat is bigger
than it seems.
“The Japanese say they are
apt to be caught in the effort to
catch the British. And if they
should have to curtail their
shipments of wool fabrics to
the United States, then they’ll
have to reduce their purchase
of wool from Australia.
“It doesn’t * seem to . have
occurred to anyone that, if
there were no restrictions of
any kind, the mills that could
produce and deliver the best
fabrics for the money would
get the business—which might
not make everyone happy, but
would leave no one with any
excuses.”
Israel
Noting that the popular idea
of a typical Israeli “is probably
a sunburnt girl on a tractor,
with a gun close at hand to
protect her .kibbutz against the
fedayeen,” “M anchester
Guardian” suggests that the
country appears to have over-
done its enthusiasm for agri-
cultural settlement.
The 1957 Israeli Year Book
records “a shortage of artisans
in. various handicrafts, while in
such branches as tailoring,
shoemaking and haircutting
there is the danger that within
a very few years, owing to the
lack .of a suitable ‘reserve,’
there will be no one to supply
these services to the popula-
tion.”
“Small businessmen are
similarly needed,” the
“Manchester Guardian” adds,
and “a fund has been
established to help middle-
class immigrants who are will-
ing to run their own businesses,


Black-and-white snapshots, colour movies
and slides come out best on
Kodak Film
KODACHROME Colour Film
For slides, in exciting colour, Koda-
chrome is the world's favourite colour
film! In sizes K 135 and KB2B.
New Kodak Film
VERICHROME PAN
Your favourite film —now better than
ever _f or better pictures in any light
and all weather!
Kodak TRI-X Film
The super-speed film that gets those
"difficult" pictures. (Not recommended
for box-type cameras in bright sunlight.)
Cine-Kodak
KODACHROME Film
Captures "your world" in life-like
full colour movies. Available in 8 mm.
and 16 mm.
)EAL E R S EVERYWHERE
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES.
KSI7
and artisans will have equip-
ment as well as loans put at
their disposal.”
The. country’s immigration-
programme of 100,000 a year,
in face of its “all but insoluble
economic difficulties,” is, com-
ments Lou i s v i i 1 e (U.S.A.)
“Courier Journal,” a symptom
of Israel’s “manifest faith in its
future”:
“To Premier David Ben-
Gurion the immigration-pro-
gramme is itself the answer to
Israel’s security.
“Already this year Israel has
absorbed some 75,000 new
citizens, and its 1957 goal of
100,000 seems certain of fulfil-
ment before the year ends.
Zionist plans for the next few
years are to encourage as much
immigration as possible among
an estimated four - million
prospects in Europe.
“The faith that these incom-
ing settlers have in Israel’s
future is matched by Israeli
belief that world Jewry will
continue to finance the
immigration-programme and to
bolster the economic health of
what is admittedly a remittance
nation. Israel’s current Budget
is some $350 million out of
balance.
“But the shining faith is
there. And it is moving not
mountains, but men and
women and children, in one of
the most remarkable chapters
in human history.”
France
Efforts to solve France’s
economic difficulties.
“nothing will be able to
save the French economy from
disaster if French prices
in the coming months step out-
side the limits we have assigned
to them today” (Finance
M i n is t e r Gaillard) are,
London “Financial Times”
comments, being “frustrated
by the power and diversity of
sectional interests”:
“The Government’s ‘price-
freeze’ has been severely
criticised by the employers’
and by the merchants’ federa-
tions. Its agricultural measures,
designed to hold down food-
prices, have been assailed by
the farmers. The plea for
industrial wage-restraint has, to
say the least, been coldiy
received by the unions con-
cerned. The French want sol-
vency without generally being
prepared to support the
measures necessary to attain it.”
Commenting further, Cleve-
land [U.S.A.] “Plain Dealer”
adds that: “No barrier is more
flimsy than a French Ministerial
decree, but even if this [price-
freezing] one were reinforced
by jail penalties and fines, it
still wouldn’t work.
“Gaillard’s reasoning is
logical only if there is logic in
trying to maintain the value of
the franc, or any other cur-
rency, at an artificial level. But
currency-controls cannot stabi-
lise a nation’s economy ; they
merely conceal its shakiness for
a time. And price-controls, to
the extent that they are en-
forced, will only produce
hoarding, blackmarkets, short-
ages and disruptions in pro-
duction.
“Occasionally people can be
appealed to en masse by their
leaders. In times of peril they
have responded. But usually
such pleas are viewed as aimed
always at the other fellow.
Another pitfall, especially in
France, is the fact that the
economy—the gap between
wages and prices—has been out
of joint since the war. The
French workman is asked to
accept this as more or less
permanent. But if Frenchmen
read statistics, they 1 should be
alarmed.
“France depends heavily on
the tourist trade for a large
chunk of its income. Gross
receipts from the tourist-trade,
in millions of dollars, were 320
in 1940, 320 in 1950 and
350 in 1955. At the same time
Italy’s receipts, where prices are
rational, went from 140 to 190
to 370 in 1955. And the irony
is that in recent years, to avoid
domestic high prices, more and
more Frenchmen have been
vacationing abroad. They have
a battle to face with themselves
when they return this year.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Po’ice and “Labor” Policy
The action of a Sydney police-
sergeant in giving summary
punishment to a band of louts
has much to commend it in
principle. Police-comment that
this sort of thing could easily
get out of hand that “we
couldn’t have fatigue-parties
working all over the metro-
politan area” - is largely
irrelevant.
JFor minor offences, Service-
men are given the option by
the C.O. of taking his handout
or a court-martial, a procedure
which streamlines discipline,
extends the percentage of
offenders brought to justice and,
above all, eliminates the sense
of remoteness of punishment
from the offence.
The integrity and competence
of a police-sergeant must be
assumed along with that of the
Police Department in promoting
him to the rank. Authority to
give the option of accepting his
ruling or placing the matter on
a charge-sheet would immedi-
ately enhance police prestige,
extend greatly the value of the
public service given by the
police, and eventually decrease
the amount of work and time
spent On the more irksome side
of police work.
The main and overwhelming
objection to giving the police
more authority is, of course,
political. Under the Vote-catch-
ing policy of N.S.W. Labor, the
administration of justice is too
often placatory rather than
punitive.— Luke (N.S.W.).
Fire Insurance
The only constructive sug-
gestion in “Fire Bug’s” tirade
against insurance companies
(B. 28/8/’57) was his proposal
for “some sort of co-operative”
scheme amongst houseowners
“in the different towns.”
Assuming that “Fire Bug”
would not selfishly confine his
acceptances of risks to
“different towns” by excluding
homes beyond the reach of a
fire brigade, let’s have a closer
look at his idea.
Will he confine his accep-
tances to contributors only, or
will he accept proposals from
all and sundry? If the latter,
then he merely creates another
insurance office. If the former,
how much contribution to the
initial capital is he going to
ask from each participant?
Omitting consideration of how
many participants there would
be, how much each should
contribute, and how many
towns should be invited to join,
"The REAL Miriam Was a born deceiver, but / saw
through her."
the initial problem is, how-
much total capital is desirable?
The answer to this has to
satisfy three requirements:
enough cash to meet an earth-
quake disaster (Adelaide offices
paid out £3 million); enough
cash to provide an unearned-
premium reserve during the
years of the scheme’s growth ;
enough business iii sight to
provide an adequate dividend
on the capital decided upon.
This last consideration brings
up the question of what rates
to charge. Twenty per cent, of
the income from the towns
would have to go in fire-brigade
contributions, leaving 80 per
cent, for expenses, claims, and
reserves, and profit. “Fire
Bug” should not expect to
operate his scheme as cheaply
as the War Service Homes
Division and Credit Foncier.
Those organisations already
have established office accom-
modation and big staffs. “Fire
Bug” would have to set up
offices and staff for insurance
business only.
Finally, would “Fire Bug”
accept what is known as “dirt-
box business” (undesirable
trade hazards), or will he
accept homes only? ]f the
latter, then some of his partici-
pants are going to find them-
selves in trouble. It is against
human nature to expect one
insurance office to take the
hazardous risks 'while the
participant’s good business
‘goes elsewhere.
In a lifetime in fire-insurance
business, T have discussed
schemes like “Fire Bug’s” many
times, and in the final analysis
they boil down to socialisation
versus private enterprise
would “Fire Bug” want sociali-
sation of his business if he
were a .grocer, and have his
profits on patent-medicines cut
to the level of his profit on
sugar?
Insurance companies do not
keep house-rates up to offset
losses on car-insurance the
business is too competitive for
that. And what if there are
150 fire-insurance offices in
Australia? They do not all
have their “full quota of
executives, etc.” many of
them are merely agencies.
“Fire Bug” does not cavil at
the number of engineering
firms or, say, station-owners in
Australia. Where would he
draw the line? Fire Clerk
(S.A.).
Motor-car Design
- Although “D.G.C.” thinks
that the problem oi car-oesign
may well solve itself (B.
25/9/’57), 1 am not hopeful.
Some late models have fins pro-
jecting at the rear to such an
extent that there is almost as
much car aft of the back-axle
as in the rest of the body-.
work. More and more
chromium grilles and elegant
flight-decks (whatever they may
be), coupled with a vast flat
areq of bonnet, make a great
display for showroom pur-
poses, but I’d hate to be stuck
with one of these monsters half-
way between Balranald and
Mildura on a hot summer’s
day. Possibly, however, new
models will include refrigera-
tion —we already have air-
conditioning.
Color-schemes a 1 so are
fantastic and remind me of old
Henry Ford’s saying that he
did not care what color his cars
were so long as they were
black.
There should be a fortune
awaiting the manufacturer of
a small car with everything,
including cost, reduced to the
utmost simplicity. I’m think-
ing of something like the
“baby” Citroen of 30 years ago
which, with
gravity-fed petrol, simple
central gear-change and easily
accessible working-parts,
rendered visits to workshops
necessary only to the merest
novice.— Ceg (Vic.).
Bathurst and the Buffs
I read with interest The
Bulletin’s reference to the
great-grandfather of the new
N.S.W. Governor, Lieutenant-
General E. Woodward, but
some details were incorrect.
From the records of the
Bathurst District Historical
Society I find that it was Lieut.-
Col. Stewart who was in
command of the regiment of
the Buffs, and not Lieut.-Col.
Wall. The latter was in
command of a detachment of
the regiment, whose duty it was
to protect the settlers of
Hartley, Bathurst, Molong am)
Wellington. Jn September,
1826, Lt.-Col. Charles William
Wall took up this command,
and did his duty very efficiently.
Incidentally, the settlers paid an


A
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
incorporated in hnyiand
•
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices:
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLING I ON, N.Z.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order for
. . . .months’ subscrfption to “The Bulletin,” to be
posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS •>
12 months £2/8/
6 months £l/4/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/13/6 , Foreign .... £3/6/-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 96S Wellington, N.Z.)
annual rental of 2s. 6d. per 100
acres at this period.
It was also Lt.-Col. Stewart, as
Lieutenant-Governor of the
Colony, who established the
first mounted police. This was
an efficient and well-disciplined
body, now called the old
Mounted Police—better known
at that time as Stewart’s Police.
So far as I can trace, Lieut. -
Col. Wall was in command in
Bathurst until 1828. For his
services he received a grant of
land of 2560 acres adjoining
the western boundary of
Stewart’s estate. The property
was called Winslow. He was a
magistrate in Bathurst until
1837.—8. G. (N.S.W.).
Rabbits and Fowls
If I were a poultryfarmer I
would feel like selling my
chooks and going in for breed-
ing rabbits. In many city
shop-windows you can see that
dressed rabbit is almost the
same price as dressed fowl, yet
the man who trapped and sent
the rabbit to market did not
have to pay one penny for
feeding the bunny and also had
an asset in the skin.
Surely we have arrived at
the ridiculous when a house-
wife has to pay practically as
“Well, whose dog is he —yours or mine ?”
much for rabbit flesh as for
fowl, while scientists are work-
ing overtime in their efforts to
destroy rabbits by disease. —
W.P.T. (N.S.W.).
International Tourists
Fewer subjects have been
discussed so often with so few
worth-while conclusions than
how best we can attract over-
seas tourists to this country.
After spending the last three
weeks at Surfers’ Paradise
following a four-month busi-
ness trip to London, I’ll
nominate this .southern
Queensland resort as the one
most likely to attract them
here.
And it is not because things
are expensive at Surfers’
Paradise, as many seem to
think. It’s because - there’s
service with a real Queensland
smile and a spirited competi-
tion among all there that
stops the “fleecing” which
seems to be synonymous with
most holiday-resorts through-
out Australia. My observations
overseas, too, convinced me
that the American tourist
whom we seem most likely to
attract (because he is nearer
and has more money) is not
the wealthy tycoon. He Is a
genuine, hard-working fellow
who has saved hard for his
holiday, realises his dollar goes
a longer way outside his
country and wants value and
service for it. There is a
popular belief that he throws
money away indiscriminately.
Maybe that is the case with a
few, but the "vast masses of
travelling Americans just have
not got the money to waste.
Surfers’ Paradise people have
worked hard in recent years
building-up amenities in the
hope of luring overseas
tourists, and it seems likely that
within the next year or two the
big gamble will pay off with
handsome dividends. The
people who backed Surfers’
Paradise went about their
business with a lot of common-
sense. First they brightened
the place yp, built modern
shops and brought in top mer-
chandising people who could
display their wares as well as
any arcade-shop in Melbourne
or Sydney. Even the banks
brought in their-easy-to-get-on-
with managers, who don’t
seem to worry too
much about ortho-
dox hours. And, of
course, the trading-
hours controversy
which almost caused
an industrial up-
heaval in Sydney
and Melbourne is
completely ignored
by all shops. Hours
are what the custo-
mers dictate.
As a thriving re-
sort Surfers’ Para-
dise is only five
years old. In this
brief but hectic five
years of commercial
growth the architects
have had a friendly
war among them-
selves to see who
could outdo the
other in color, de-
sign and facilities in
the host of self-
contained tourist
apartments. Jt all
adds to the variety which
is making Surfers’ one of the
most talked-about places in
Australia,
A couple of hotel-chains have
built hotels—up to world
standard in their kind. That
at Broadbeach is not un-
like the Royal Hawaiian in
service, amenities, distance
from the surf, etc., yet its


price and that of its rival is far
below what is charged overseas.
Indeed these two hotels are
cheaper than the top hotels in
Melbourne and Sydney.
Already they are coming “out
of the red”—no mean effort
considering the little time they
have been operating.
For years the cynics have
been saying the bubble will
burst at Surfers’ Paradise.
Instead, each further investment
starts further expansion.
For Americans, coming here
is expensive, particularly if
they are coming by air, but
with the international jet-age
only 18 months off Uncle Sam’s
tourists will soon be able to
have a cheaper holiday at
Surfers’ Paradise than they
can get at Hawaii. Executives
from American tourist-agencies
have visited the area and are
now making bookings for pack-
aged tours in 1958-59, while the
Matson Line cruises to Sydney
are qffering the stop-over time
at Surfers’ Paradise.
Slowly, but surely, the
Surfers’ Paradise venture is
developing into a success-story
of a group of people who had
such faith in the small strip of
land there that they backed
everything on it and won
Waddlin’ Willie (Vic.).
Roacf Safety
Road-safety campaigns which
depend on slogans and ex-
hortations to drive carefully are
futile. Grim statistics have
“O.K., Honey—who do I crown with it ?”
completely debunked the
voluble propagandist, and the
drunken driver, the speedster,
the irresponsible youth and the
timid weekend driver are still
with us. Verbal or written
appeals will not deter them.
Accidents do not happen;
they are caused. They are the
direct result of miscalculation,
incompetence or careless
driving. Modern cars, except
in rare cases of mechanical
defect or failure, respond pre-
cisely to the drivers’ manipula-
tion of controls.
The motorist is not always
at fault. A few days ago I
saw a pedestrian crossing
Sydney’s King Street absorbedly
reading a newspaper. Many
others adopt a truculent “hit-
me-if-you-dare” attitude. As a
careful driver with over 50
years accident-free driving
almost daily on city streets, I
find pedestrians even more
frustrating and difficult than
the negligent driver.
Traffic hazards and their
appalling sequels will continue
so long as offenders brought
before the courts are treated
with such ridiculous leniency.
Seldom, even after repeated
convictions, are offenders jailed
or compelled to surrender their
licences, even though culpable
negligence is often obvious.
Medical evidence frequently
clouds the issue when alcohol
is alleged to be a contributing
factor to the “accident.” No
wonder traffic-officers feel a
sense of frustration!
On a recent 400-mile holiday
tour I saw at least 10 deliberate
and dangerous traffic-breaches
which called for prompt salu-
tary action. A few days ago,
at the busy hour of 5.30 p.m. on
the Sydney Harbor Bridge, a
large American car passed me
at quite 60 miles per hour and,
in his frantic haste, the driver
changed laneways no less than
four times. Unfortunately
police-patrols miss most of
these incidents —they can’t be
everywhere. Intense patrolling,
punitive fines, and cancellation
of licences would go a long
way towards minimising the
prevailing conditions. Special
civilian traffic - constables
responsible citizens with good
driving- records and with power
to caution, “book,” or even
prosecute offenders would
have a salutary effect on those
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 455
Across
I—The1 —The greatest tragedian of the period is unbalanced. (3-5)
4—Girl Who Find Camino Real Bad. (6)
B—Passe8 —Passe bowling against the barrackers’ headquarters in
Sydney. (4, 3,4)
10 —1 approach the fifties feeling crook. (3)
12 —They help washerwomen put policemen to death! (3, 7)
13—Neat and stylish greeting in the
hundreds. .(4)
15— Parent in Chief. (4)
16 — Secret oracle’s a scene of a major
Japanese setback. (5, 3)
19 — These joiners suggest the slowest
way to get to double figures. (8)
20 — He is just beginning with a dis-
orderly tory. (4)
22 — Every one. (4)
23 — Cuts all the hair off troubles. (10)
25 Australian town where nothing is
allowed to interrupt Yours Truly.
(3)
26 — Ihe salt suggests Alma’s
•deformed, and the girl in 4-across
is deformed also. (3-8)
27 — Good luck may go with this
parent to the Gael suburb of
Sydney. (6)
28— The price of travelling free from
sickness for so long! (8)
Down
1 — Flow of fancy psychological pro-
cesses. (13)
2 Plowman wharves. (5)
3 Change for the honest boy’s
Europeans. (10)
5 A portrait may be done in such
art-ill-built silo. (4)
6 Erse drunk’s reference to a
* flower, or part of an eye. (5)
7 Sulphuric acid composed of six,
three and fifty. (7)
9—Spot. (4)
11 —Don’t have a stage one to see
Jolson slow, languishing and
inefficient. (13)
14 — Omen barely detectable in part
of London. (10)
15 — Names whoever pinch a
moustache! (9)
17 — There’s considerable polish in
this De Sica film classic. (9)
18 — Name for a newspaper feature;
name for the object. (7)
21 —Check stalk. (4)
24 —Address of many Scandinavians
in central Czechoslovakia. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 454


Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
One easy way to keep
a wife contented and
quietly-occupied by her
own fireside is to see that
she always reads the
bright, happy, typically-
Australian stories in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
Divorce Notice
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO ESLYN WAYNE SEAN O’NEIL
CURTISS late of Newcastle. —TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN JOAN
CURTISS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3873 of 1956 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three (3) years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 9th day of December 1957 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from LAURENCE & LAURENCE,
Solicitors, 44-46 Martin Place, Sydney,
Citv Agents for HENRY T. SKILTON
& SKILTON, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner, 444 High Street, Maitland. —J.
DOUGIIAN, Registrar.
DEVELOP YOUR PROPERTY
£COMO6f/oA££ y WITH
HUMES
K£M£ORC£P CO//C/?£T£
&
‘V\
m
*
*
* TROUGHIN6
• WELL LININGS
•PIPES
Humes eentrifugally
spun reinforced concrete
is practically everlasting
end needs no maintenance.
Install—and forget.
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Llsmore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tam worth. HS
who imagine they can ignore
normal safety-rules.
During a tour through con-
siderable areas of Great Britain,
I was agreeably impressed with
the orderly traffic-control on
open roads. In London, the
smooth flow of traffic even in
congested areas, and the
courtesy and co-operation of
pedestrians and drivers, was a
sheer delight. It could be the
same here. — Ajax (N.S.W.).
Wine Exports
The celebration of National
Wine Week brings to mind
how quickly the Australian
wine-industry is growing.
Exports of wine are, on the
whole, increasing every year.
In 1954-55 Australia exported
1,264,073 gallons of wine ; the
figure dropped to 1,203,992 in
1955-56, but for the 11 months
to May 31 this year it had
risen to 1,600,000 gallons.
At the start of the 1956
National Wine Week the
president of the Federal Viti-
cultural Council (H. R. Hasel-
grove) said: “Since Australian
sweet-sherries started to sell in
Britain at 10s. a bottle sales
of our wines there have in-
creased by over 250,000 gallons
in two years. For the year
ended June 30, 1956, Aus-
tralian wine sales in the U.K.
were the highest for the past
seven years.” He said sales in
Britain could be extended still
further.
Most of the exported wine
goes to Britain, Canada and
NcZ., and most of it is sherry
—the tendency all over the
world is towards the sweeter
sherries. Australians are going
for the sweet stuff, too.
For some time now Australia
has been in the lead in sherry-
making research. Francois de
Castella, a famous name in
Australian wine-making, began
this research over 40 years ago
when he imported “flor” yeast
from Spain; nowadays the
main research-work is at the
Waite Research Institute,
Adelaide. The result is that
Australian wines compare
favorably with the world’s best.
It has been said (by Hasel-
grove and others) that if the
advertising campaign were
stepped-up wine-exports could
be further increased. Probably
so ; but here’s the rub. The
Federal Government aims to
get funds for overseas publicity
by increasing by 50 per cent,
the levy on grapes used for
wine-making and for distilla-
tion.
Surely socking the industry
at home may well result in less
wine to export. — Kros (S.A.).
Hire-purchase
Hire - purchase business,
flourishing in an aura of super-
respectability under the aegis
of banking institutions and big-
business organisations, had its
humble beginnings in time-
payment, which, in the early
part of the century, came into
being in an atmosphere of
suspicion and mistrust. It was
mainly the needy who had any-
thing to do with t.-p., and the
business was conducted much
as one would have furtive deal-
ings with “uncle.”
The early t.-p. bloke had the
law heavily weighted in his
favor. Relying on the pro-
visions of the Police Offences
Act, 1901, in N.S.W., he was
safe in extending credit in any
stratum of society. Section 32
empowered lower courts to
order the return of goods
(of value of not more than
£2O) detained without just
cause, and, in default of
compliance, the payment of the
value of the goods, and, in
default of payment, a term of
imprisonment. It was a simple
matter to draft time-payment
agreements (one for every £2O-
- of goods> that vested in
the vendor the property in the
goods until the final instalment
of the cost, interest and charges
had been paid.
Old - timers will well
remember the go-getter, armed
with a supply of blank forms-
of-agreement and a port-
manteau of cheap assorted
German clocks and brummy
jewellery, touring the poorer
suburbs from door to door,
disposing of his tawdry wares
on a small deposit and at an
exorbitant price to, if possible,
the housewife.
It would be no time before
this type of hawker had city
premises and was well estab-
lished in bigger and more
comprehensive business.
Others followed and
flourished, and it was only
many years later that t.-p.
transactions were put on
the same basis as other
business and jail sentences were
abolished in respect of t.-p.
agreements. Originally, it was
a smelly business open to
shady abuses. In legal proceed-
ings the value of the goods was
often set down at the original
sale price, notwithstanding the
instalments paid, and unless the
harassed victim demurred the
t.-p. merchant got away with it,
much to his good content.
Today, under the influence
of high-pressure salesmanship,
radio and TV blurbs, extensive
press-advertisements, and union
organisers’ demands that the
worker must have all modern
luxuries, the community bears
a staggering h.-p. debt. It is
balanced precariously on the
edge of the wool-cheque, which,
at the moment, acts in t|ie
economic field as a substitute
for productivity.
But, as we’re all involved, no
social stigma blots our
escutcheons. I know my neigh-
bor has his car on h,-p. and his
wife her sable rabbit coat on
deferred payments. But then
they know I’m paying instal-
ments on my TV-set out of my
old-age pension. Under the
skin, financially, we’re all part
and parcel of that astronomical
mortgage of our future pros-
perity.—Y. Mee (N.S.W.).


RUSSIAN COMFREY
Symphytum Feregrinum
Giant Webster Strain
A fodder upon which all stock and
poultry thrive. Get the right strain
for protein (33.68% protein has been
obtained) and bulk (124 tons an acre
in Kenya and 99 in New Zealand in
1956). Send stamped, addressed
envelope for price list and my intro-
ductory booklet giving my farm experi-
ments with this crop to pioneer grower.
W. F. SAVAGE,
Green Farm, Red Hill South.
Victoria.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SHEEP AT MELBOURNE
By “Didgeroo”
COME of the best sheep ever
to appear in Melbourne
were in the record parade which
faced the judges at the 1957
Royal'Show.
In some breeds, including the
Dorset Horn, Southdown and
Border Leicester, quality was
so good and even that the
judges found it hard to
separate the top six or eight
entries in some of the big
classes.
Despite the record numbers,
many breeders protested against
the deletion of some of the
aged-ewe classes because of in-
sufficient accommodation.
Although judging facilities
have improved during the last
few years, especially since the
sheep have been transferred to
the former poultry-pavilion,
they are still far from good.
Greater use of- the spacious
lawns outside the pavilions
would give greater room for
judges, exhibitors and spec-
tators. Some of the result-
Sheep have not always
been shorn. It is
believed that origin-
ally they were
plucked for their
wool. Research has
set the date when the
first shearing blades
were used at about
1000 B.C. With the
introduction of
modern shearing
machines and shear-
ing tables sheep rais-
ing today employs
highly efficient
methods—one of out-
standing merit being
the Elastrator Rubber
Ring system for mark-
ing and tailing lambs.
This is a system
which, compared with
cruder methods, has
resulted in .a marked
reduction of losses
and better protection
against set-back, fly-
strike and other
diseases.
boards could be used to better
advantage.
Points noted at the judging
included:
• The record entry of 130
Cheviots exactly 80 more
than in 1955.
• Whereas most breeds, in-
cluding the Cheviot, have
developed a special type for
Australian conditions, one or
two breeds exhibited two
different types to the judges.
• Whereas many promising
young sheep were paraded,
most judges preferred to award
the championships to older
entries which had proved their
ability to retain type and con-
formation at maturity.
/ • The awards of at least two
championships to ewes' which
had proved their ability to
retain their desirable charac-
teristics with a lamb at foot.
• The excellent inter-State
competition, particularly among
the Dorset Horns, in which,
although far from disgraced,
Victorian breeders were in the
minority.
• The excellent perform-
ances of the sons and daughters
of some former champions.
• Father and son, W. S.
and Walter .Martin, of Sandy
Creek (S.A.), judging the Dorset
Hern rams and ewes respec-
tively.
• Some plajn heads and
poor fleeces were the most
obvious weaknesses.
Dorset Horns
By far the most popular
breed, both numerically and by
the amount of interest at the
ringside, was the Dorset Horns,
which attracted 229 entries
from four States.
W. S. Martin said he thought
the tops were far better than
could be exhibited by the
breed in Great Britain. He
gave the ram championship to
an outstanding sire shown by
W. and E. Roberts Thompson,
of Table Cape (Tas.).
This ram, which was sired by
a Newbold ram, and has
championships at Hobart and
* Launceston to its credit, was
well filled in the leg and had
a very good and carriage.
It paraded well.
Despite these excellent
qualities, it only defeated an
entry of K. G. Luke, of
Rpmsey, by the way in which
it stood before the judge. The
reserve champion was cham-
pion of the 1957 Melbourne
Sheep Show and the son of a
champion in both Sydney and
Melbourne (twice) which was
finally sold, as an. aged ram, for
lOOOgns.
Both the 1957 champion and
reserve champion had good
fleeces. W. Martin was especi-
ally pleased with a strong
four-tooth class in which he
awarded the blue-ribbon to
Mr. Luke’s entry. A. M.
Dawkins and Son, of Gawler
River (S.A.); E. W. L
Dawkins* of Gawler (S.A.);
and J. A. Thomas, of Mulwala
(N.S.W.), were also successful
exhibitors in the ram classes.
Ewes were slightly better
than the rams. The two-tooths
in the wool were very hard to
separate into prizewinners and
also-rans. For the champion,
Walter Martin selected a beau-
tifully square ewe with a
fairly large lamb at foot. It
.was exhibited- by C. M. Hart
and Co., of Two Wells (S.A.),
who won the recent champion-
ship with it in Adelaide.
The champion showed more
maturity than the younger
reserve-champion, entered by
A. Taylor, of Cudal, which
also handled remarkably well.
W. J. Dawkins Newbold,
Ltd., of Gawler River (S.A.),
won several ewe classes ; and
H. C. Yates and Sons, of
Yerong Creek (N.S.W.), took
both blue- and red-ribbons for
their entries in the under-H-
-years woolly class.
Border Leicesters
Evenness well down the long
lines was also a feature of the
Border Leicesters, which were
judged by R. R. King, of
Warracknabeal (rams), and
Ray Starritt, of Mooroopna
North-west (ewes). Both gave
high praise for the handling
qualities of the sheep which
went before them.
Mr. King awarded the ram
championship to a bold, well-
balanced sire with a good head
and fleece, the entry of S.
Storer, of Woonnen, near
vSwan Hill, which exhibited a
better hindquarter than the
reserve champion, paraded by
G. F. E. Hosking and Sons,
of Kerang. The bigger runner-
up displayed great bone.
Although it had twin
lambs at foot, the champion
ewe, shown by Wilson G. J.
Beer and Sons, of Nanneella
South, carried great bloom and
spring of the ribs.
This latter feature enabled it
to force Hosking's beautifully
headed and lengthy ewe into
the reserve position.
F. G. Hewitt and Errol
Hewitt, both of Warrackna-
beal ; H. R. Heazlewood, of
Whitemore (Tas.); and Est.
A. J. McLachlan, South
Morang. were among the other
successful breeders.
Cheviots
W. G. Dickson, of Kerang,
spent his early years in the
U.K. Border-country the
home of the Cheviots, which he
judged in Melbourne. He was
very pleased with the breed’s
remarkable progress, and the
way in which it was settling-
down, to even the harder con-
ditions of northern Victoria
and the Riverina.
In this way, the breed had
gone ahead faster than in New
Zealand, where imported blood
was still needed to maintain
quality, he said. Type was
very good in most of the sheep
shown in Melbourne.
The champion, exhibited by


OtVAS
BUILDINGS
rjtJUH
Steel-wood-steel members give
unequalled structural strength
and simplicity in construction!
Bowas is the world’s strongest, most versatile frame-
work the perfect building material for shearers’
quarters, cottages and homesteads. The Bowas
principle (cypress pine held rigid on both sides by
mild steel members up to £in. thick) provides a
framework (surpassed only by brick) of immense
strength. Only Bowas allows future alterations to be
made without major alterations, and only Bowas can
be completely dismantled, then re-erected without
damage to the framework.
Bowas framework will not warp or twist; is not
affected by shrinkage, dry rot, white ants, gum veins,
etc. This is why Bowas quality pays off in the long
run, costs practically nothing in maintenance and very
little in depreciation—holds its value years longer
than any other comparable structure. Erection of any
building, from a large homestead to small cottages,
takes less time than any other normal structure.
Bowas is the modern way to build permanently
for the years ahead!
sn
*
9
m
9
H
BOWAS CONSTRUCTIONS LIMITED
Williams Parade {off Constitution Road), Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.
LM 5204-7886. Railway Parade, Rocklea, Queensland. JU 1692.
Please forward, without obligation or cost, the illustrated folder showing the
advantages and uses of the Bowas patented wood and steel construction
principle.
NAME
ADDRESS -
STATE B .i
BOWAS
SHEARERS' QUARTERS


Ivan C. Heazlewood, of White-
, more (Tas.), and bred by R.
1 McKenzie, of Somerset (Tas.),
was “one out of the box —
almost perfect,” said the
judge.
Its chief points were a beauti-
ful head, good conformation,
sirey appearance, and fairly
even wool. It stood well.
The reserve champion, a
younger sheep exhibited by T.
Tailford, of Romsey, and bred
by J. P. -Robertson, of New
Zealand, should improve with
age.
Although it could be
stronger in the wool to give an
even 56’s, A. F. Saunders’s
(Kilmore East) champion ewe
had excellent conformation and
a better head than the reserve
ewe, paraded by R. M. and
E. K. Metherall, of Tooradin.
S. M. Haggard, of Berwick, won
several ribbons in a strong field
of 19 exhibitors.
A feature of the entry was
the wide range of conditions
under which the sheep were
bred —from the dry north-west
of Victoria to the kinder Tas-
manian country.
English Leicesters
While they have always
displayed good meaty carcasses
and good fleeces, English
Leicesters provided more com-
petition than usual.
In general, the sheep were
well grown and brought out to
advantage. Alex. Habel, of
Hamilton, who judged,
awarded the ram championship
to an excellent sire exhibited
by lan Morrish, of BLampied,
near Ballarat. It, and the
reserve champion, entered by
V. Smart, of Bordertown
(S.A.), both had good fleeces,
but the champion’s superior
frame gave it the,rosette.
Mr. Smart won the ewe
championship with a very nice
aged entry, which was in
excellent condition. Its fleece
was better than that of the
young reserve champion,
entered by Williamson Bros., of
Carisbrook.
South clowns
With an entry of 145, South-
downs showed that they had
lost nothing in quality or
popularity. In fact, they could
be well on the upgrade, with
the heavy demand for the
small, succulent joint.
T. Brunskill, .of Wagga
(N.S.W.), who judged the rams,
said the display was the best
he had seen of the breed in
Melbourne. Wool quality, in
particular, was outstanding.
The champion ram, exhibited
b> Est. C. H. Hawkins, of
Shepparton, handled well, with
excellent fleshing and an out-
standing head. Its hindquarter
put it ahead of James
Mclntosh’s (Nar - Nar - Goon)
smaller and more compact
reserve champion from the
same class.
The Southdown ewes were
also the best which the judge,
George King, of Scott’s Creek,
had seen in his long association
with Melbourne Shows. He
liked the young classes particu-
larly, and found little “tail”
over the whole exhibit.
As it was rearing a lamb,
Mr. Mclntosh’s champion ewe
did not display gs much bloom
as desirable, but had excellent
breeding qualities.
A championship in the near
future was forecast for Richard
Hughes’s (Longford, Tas.)
yearling reserve-champion—a
beautiful young ewe which was
lull of bloom.
In a section which provided
plenty of competition, other
successful breeders included
E. F. Hancock, of Warrack-
nabeal, who has won fame in
fat-lamb competitions; R. J.
Heazlewood, of North Motton
(Tas.); Comely Banks Stud, of
Cora Lynn ; W. S. Hogarth and
Son, of Western Junction
(Tas.); and L. A. Hinton and
Son, of Vite Vite.
Ryelands
Ryelands maintained their
recent advances in an excellent
exhibit of 160 entries. Even-
ness of type right down the line
reflected the breed’s progress
during the past 20 years, said
P. W. Richardson, of Cowra
(N.S.W.), who judged the
rams.
The well-set-up champion,
paraded by D. Wadelton, of
Girgarre, was “almost perfect,”
said Mr. Richardson. Its better
fleece won it the honors from
T. J. Lilford’s. (Merrigum)
reserve champion.
Ewes, judged by J. M.
Roberts, of Longford (Tas.),
also displayed great class. The
champion, bred and exhibited
by John Mclntosh and Son, of
Merrigum, came from the
winners of the pairs class. It
was a very typical modern type
oi Ryeland, displaying all the
good points/
It was younger than Mr. Lil-
ford’s reserve champion, which,
with a lamb at foot, provided
a very keen contest before
yielding to the winner. Its
fleshing was excellent.
The long list of class-winners
included M. and T. Paternoster,
of Fur n e r (S.A.); Brian
Whiteley, of Pakenham ; and
A W. Pyle Jnr., of Wangaratta.
Romney Marsh
Competition in the Romney
Marsh breed was disappointing
after the fine exhibitions in
Sydney and Melbourne earlier
in the year. Nevertheless,
Bruce Lartglands, of Horsham,
who judged, found type even
and quality good.
He awarded the ram
championship to a big upstand-
ing, sire with typical sire’s wool
and heavy bone, bred and
exhibited by Howard Yelland,
of Newlyn, near Ballarat.
Its fleece was heavier than
that of the reserve-champion
ram, entered by Jack Christie,
of Byaduk North, which had
an excellent carcass.
Major awards among the
females were reversed with Mr.
Christie’s stud gaining the
rosette with another good-
bodied entry, which also had a
nice fleece. In this case, it was
bigger than Mr. Yelland's
leserve champion.
W. R. Glasson, of Molong
(N.S.W.), and R. H. Meaklim,
of Mooroopna North, also
won prizes.
Corriedales
Although they also lacked
the competition of the Sheep-
breeders’ Show, Corriedales
“showed the flag” for the
woolled breeds, which, unfor-
tunately, are not represented
well at the Melbourne Royal.
Rams were judged by H. B'ahr,
of Henty (N.S.W.), and ewes
by W. Seeker, of Happy Valley
(S.A.), who each selected the
representatives of R. H. R.
Baker's stud, at Barringhup, as
champions.
Both animals were exception-
ally well grown and carried
heavy fleeces. The ram has
won important championships,
and the ewe has been winning
her way up the line. Mr. Baker
also won the ewe reserve-
championship.
Best wool in the show was
shown by another large ram,
which won the reserve-
championship for A. E. and N.
D. Mclntosh, of Ellam, whose
sheep were kept in excellent
condition on top-quality
lucerne - hay cut on the
property. The season has been
very dry in this Rainbow-
Jcparit district.
Other Breeds
It is a pity that the black
points are such a disadvantage
in Australia to such breeds as
the Shropshire, Suffolk, and
Hampshire Down, which
displayed some nice animals in
small entries at Melbourne.
As usual, E. W. Ham and
Son, of Goorambat, penned
some excellent Shropshires
without competition. Both
championships went to young
animals.
John Mclntosh, of Merri-
gum, was worried by the two
types of Suffolk which came
before him for adjudication.
Aiming for good type, body,
head and fleece, he discarded
some plain heads and weak
fleeces in giving all his major
awards to Allen E. Day and
Sons, of Alma (S.A.).
The champion ewe, from
the shorn class, was very
attractive and well fleshed.
A team of Hampshire Downs
entered by H. A. Lindsay-
Field, of Healesville, created a
lot of interest, and J. A.
Christie, of Byaduk North,
provided his usual entry of
Lincolns without competition.
This breed, with the lovely
carcass and fleece, is out oi
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(26/9/’57)
Rainfall should be patchy over a large part of Queens-
land during October, although there may be good rains
in the north-west, north coast and portion of the central
coast. Good relief rains are likely in the second half of
December.
Patchy rainfall in N.S.W., too, during October,
although moderate rains are indicated on the coast, table-
lands, north-west slopes and plains and south-west. The
best rains may occur on portion of the northern tablelands
and north-west slopes and plains. Patchy rains also iii
November, with general rains in December.
Victoria should get moderate to good rains during
October, with the best falls in East Gippsland, but part of
the Mallee confined to light rain. Similar rains are likely
in November.
The agricultural areas of South Australia should receive
moderate rain, mainly below normal, during October, but
the Murray Valley, upper north, interior and west coast
may get only light rain. Better rains likely in November.
In Western Australia, moderate to good rains may
occur on the south coast and south-west agricultural areas,
with the balance of the State confined to light, patchy rains.
LENNOX WALKER.


THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies .. .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. 22/$
<©
m
*
p-
p
f*
mz
woot
13
weu
AM*/..
WHBN ITS OFT TO
Dalgolys
they're so dependable!
favor with breeders at the
moment.
Hurlstone Jubilee
A jubilee fete will be held at
Hurlstone Agricultural High
School, Glenfield (N.S.W.), on
Saturday, October 12, from
11 a.m. to 10 p.m. Hurlstone
was the first school of its type
established in the Common-
wealth. It opened in April,
1907, at Summer Hill, on 28
acres of urban land ; then, in
1926, the school went further
afield, to Glenfield, which is 26
miles from Sydney. The
organisers of the fete hope to
raise £2OOO towards new tennis-
courts and other sporting
facilities.
The Fat-lamb Industry
]UEW SOUTH WALES fat-
lamb breeders must be
prepared to accept lower prices
in the future.. That, and the
need for co-operation within
the industry, and a sound
marketing and publicity cam-
paign, are obvious.
The trade is in the unenvi-
able position of having a
growing potential hampered by
lower production and lower
consumption.
Fat-lamb exports from N. S.
Wales have virtually ceased,
and that at a time when our
sheep are increasing by millions
every year! The loss of this
export-trade—now down to 600
tons —may not seem so serious
in view of a growing popula-
tion, but against that is the
decline in the per capita con-
sumption of lamb-meats.
Price has a lot to do with it.
A lamb-chop looks very small
on a plate,. particularly if it
costs Is. 6d. Lambs are not
coming into market as in past
years, and, in the democratic
way of supply and demand, the
wholesale price has remained
very satisfactory to the breeder
and very stiff to the housewife.
This supply factor is one that
fat-lamb breeders should study
closely.
Lambs now reach Homebush
on a much wider scale than
they did in past years. They
still have their first, peak and
last periods of supply; but
generally the numbers are
levelling out into a general
year-round supply as breeding
and management programmes,
dictated by modern husbandry
methods, begin to take effect.
The early lamb is now
earlier and goes on later, while
the late lamb is arriving sooner
and also Carrying on later. This
trend, one would think, should
stabilise the market, but other
factors are at work.
One of these is the increase
in the size of our wool-clip and
the reluctance of graziers to sell
anything that will grow a pound
of wool. This is causing a
severe falling-off in supply of
lambs (suckers particularly) and
is probably, overall, not in-
creasing the quality value of
the Australian wool-clip.
All businesses depend on
goodwill to some extent for
their continued prosperity. This
applies to the fat-lamb trade
as to any other. The fat-lamb
industry needs the co-opera-
tion of the wholesale butcher
and the modern merchandiser.
With a diminishing export
trade (and there seems to be
nothing either in the rate of
supply or the weight of demand
inside or outside the 15-year
Meat Agreement that will give
this a much-needed shot-in-the-
arm), the fat-lamb breeder will
depend more and more on the
home consumer.
Well, says he, our population
is growing, so why worry?
Why? Because the growing
Australian is not eating the
poundage per lamb per head
that he was in pre-war years!
To overcome this we must
encourage more people to grow
lambs, and to market them,
and to eat them. We must
market them at a fair profit, but
not at a price that makes the
housewife dubiously shake her
head and buy a pound of tripe
instead.
This is by no means as small
a point as.it may sound. Con-
sumer-resistance to high prices
on any article is increasing. It
is the same with meat as* with
fruit and vegetables. While the
article may be desired although
the price is outside the house-
hold budget, that is just what
it remains—desired but unsold.
The fat-lamb breeder, there-
fore, needs to educate and
convince the wholesaler that
he can and will, over a long
period, and from different areas
of the State at different times
of the year, supply an adequate
supply of prime, first-quality
sucker-lamb. Such a pro-
gramme will not lead to “top-
cf-the-market” prices, but it
will lead to a firming of the
market and a confidence that,
at the moment, is far from
being felt.
We must face the fact that
as closer - settlement brought
about by soldier needs, death-
duties or any other cause—and
pasture - improvement and
pasture-management continue
in N. S. Wales, so will the pro-
duction of the crossbred;
whether for woolgrowing, lamb-
raising or restocking purposes.
This in turn will bring about
a gradual change—it is already
becoming apparent in our
wool-clip. Although we may
still produce the finest Merino
wool in the world, and the same
quantity of it, that wool will
nevertheless become a smaller
percentage of the whole Aus-
tralian clip as the years pass.
Therein lies the obligation
and challenge to the fat-lamb
breeder. We will always have
that fine Merino wool ; we will
always have a huge wheat
potential; but what does the
future hold for the fat-lamb
trade?
Figures for Homebush sale-
yards for this year to the end
of August show that 587,910
lambs and only 87,799 suckers
have been through the yards.
That compares with a total of
861,538 lambs and 367,311
suckers for 1954. It is not
likely these figures will be
approached by the time 1957.
draws to a close.
In August this year prices for
sucker lambs at Homebush
reached all-time highs and the
prices obtained there have
been echoed at sale centres
throughout the State. These
“highs,” however, are more
of a threat to the trade than
a guide to the improving
quality of our lamb.
Fat-lamb raising is a free
industry built mostly by the
small-area grazier, the battler
and the settler. They must
combine to anticipate their
problems. of supply, market,
price and demand, and plan
to deal with them now not
in 10 or 20 years.
THE RINGER.


Women's Letters
SYDNEY
J
Keyed-up by tales of the fabulous
episodes connected with Michael Todd’s
party for the world premiere of his
production “Around the World in 80
Days,” Sydney citizens rolled-up to its
gala preview at the Paris Theatre on
Wednesday night in Bentleys, Humbers
and the like. A blaze of klieg-lights shone
upon them, marching girls in red-and-
blue jackets with white pleated skirts
formed a guard-bf-honor for them, tiers
of people in Hyde Park opposite cheered
them and 18th-century footmen ushered
them into the foyer.
In between the Rolls-Royces, the
Daimlers and the occasional Morris
Minors, delightful equipages kept driving
up full of New Australians in national
costume —a tiny hansom-cab drawn by
Shetland-ponies carried twb little Indo-
nesians ; a dog-cart overflowed with the
bouffant skirts of Hungarian girls with
flowered headdresses.' The ponies drawing
a Cinderella coach with a prince and
princess wore jingling bells on their
heads, a man arrived on a pennyfarthing
—and so on. It made the scene colorful
and gay.
Official cars delivered the Governor,
Mrs. Woodward and daughter Judy, the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress, the
Premier and Mrs. Cahill. They were
welcomed by Mr. and Mrs. Ernest
Turnbull and Mr. and Mrs. R. G.
Michael.
The guests who took their seats in the
dress-circle had paid £lOO for a double-
ticket, and those in the stalls £5 a single.
This was not quite as extravagant as
it might sound, for the entire proceeds
of the evening went to the Opera House
Appeal, the Royal Blind Society and
Legacy, and the tickets had the added
attraction of being deductible from
taxation.
The £ 100-ticket holders went on after-
wards to a party at the Empress Ball-
room —a party which had been donated
by Michael Todd. The decorations here
certainly were “fabulous.” The gardens
on the ground-floor held living statues
(the three Graces in Grecian drapes
perfectly immobile but for an occasional
blinking of the eyelids, a lovely girl
wearing a crown of golden candles and a
Grecian couple upstairs in gold tunics).
Guests passed into the ballroom over a
Chinese-red bridge crossing a lake with
waterlilies and swans, and in the ball-
room itself the motif of the La Coquette
balloon from the film decorated each
table and the centre of the room.
As well as the buffet, which ran along
the bandstand and held every kind of
party-food (whole turkeys, sucking-pigs,
chicken-in-aspic, bowls of strawberries,
candied fruits in marzipan, prawns,
lobster), tables running diagonally on to
the dance-floor featured food of every
country, with attendants in national dress.
England’s table had smoked salmon,
potted shrimps ; China was represented
by sweet and sour pork (which went very
quickly); India had curry and all its
accompaniments; Hungary the most
feathery little dumplings to go with the
goulash. Australia’s table had python-
steaks in red wine, and no one worth
his or her salt refused a piece (though
many said it was eel), while the witchety-
grubs fried in batter were very popular.
With all this variety of food it was
amusing to note one woman carrying a
plate containing only three snails and a
lettuce-leaf. “I like something light,” she
explained.
Miss May Hollinworth, who is highly
esteemed for her work as producer for
several of Sydney's Little Theatres,
received congratulations for her produc-
tion of “The Shifting Heart,” the new play
at the Elizabethan by Australian Richard
Bey non. About Italian migrants, this play
won the Sydney Journalist Club play com-
petition in 1956 and was later placed third
in the London “ Observer ” play competi-
tion, 1957, when the judges were Alec
Guiness, Peter Ustinov and Kenneth
Tynan.
JThe opening night of this new Aus-
tralian play (which was, of course, a
world-premiere) drew a full house to the
Elizabethan, and there was an atmosphere
of warmth and enthusiasm throughout.
English actress Margaret Rutherford,
who will appear in “The Happiest Days
of Your Life” at this theatre at the
beginning of next month, received an
ovation when she arrived in the d.-c. with
her husband, Stringer Davis, and director
Hugh Hunt. The author’s family came
up from Melbourne for the event, and
there was a good sprinkling of the
theatrical profession present.
The opening of the spring race-meeting
at Randwick confirmed prophecies that
the Chanel-look would be the thing this
season. Jackets, both of suits and over
dresses, were short, loose and wide-
collared. The softly-tied blouse, in silk
or chiffon and often spotted (a rarity 12
months ago) was a commonplace on
Saturday last, and the sou’-wester, rolled
back from the forehead and billowing
away at the back, completed a pleasant
picture of the new summer style.
ft ft ft
The Governor, Lieut.-General E. W.
Woodward, and Mrs. Woodward
attended the opening night of the Gilbert
and Sullivan Society’s “The Mikado’’ on
Friday night. The production, by Miss
Evelyn Gardiner, M.8.E., was well
attended on the two nights of its presen-
tation, and proceeds were devoted to the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children.
Frank Johnstone was the musical-director,
and the cast included Beverley Lane
(Yum-Yum), Joan Fisher (Katisha), John
Wirth (Nanki Poo), Noel Pelly (Ko-Ko)
and Kevin Worsley (the Mikado).
ft ft ft
Sydney’s Waratah Spring Festival
opened with a jazz-concert in Hyde Park
on Saturday night, which drew an
attendance of 300 p people. Noted among
them the numbers of teenage girls in
tight white matador-pants, white bulky
pullovers and white sandals. It seemed to
be a sort of uniform, which, while not at
all admired by the onlookers, caused lots
of laughter and promoted good humor.
“You wouldn’t read about it!” was the
comment made the next day when a storm
blew up in the afternoon and drenched
the opening of the ex-Service floral-badge
display at the Anzac Memorial with the
only rain that has fallen in weeks. But
nonetheless the Festival promises to be
quite a success. In Hyde Park this week
there is to be an open-air restaurant, an
aborigines’ camp, an art-and-sculpture
exhibition, archery and fencing displays
and gymnastic exhibitions. The climax
of the Festival is to be the three-mile
procession through the streets on Saturday
next.
MELBOURNE
More than 200 young people attended
the gay and informal dance given by
Lieut.-Governor Sir Edmund Herring and
Lady Herring at Government House. The
hostess chose a gown of azure-blue satin,
the full-skirt covered with another of
matching tulle. Her daughter Margaret
was attractive in a graceful full-skirted
gown of rose-pink satin-brocade.
Joan Moir’s pastel-blue tulles had a
cluster of pink roses at one side of the
skirt. Barbara Hewitt wore powder-blue
satin-brocade, Carmen Clarke, pale-blue
tulle. Joy Donohue’s choice was a full-
skirted frock of sea-green taffeta. Mrs.
Peter Isaacson danced in white organza,
Mrs. John Buckland contrasted her rose-
red tulle gown with a wide stole of azure-
blue taffeta.
Patrizia Serafini’s gown, one of the love-
liest at the dance, had been brought


recently from Italy by her father (the
Italian Consul-General). Threads of
silver covered its entire surface, it was
embroidered with pink silk roses, and
over it was a layer of fine white tulle.
Deep-cream permanently-pleated silk-
organza was Anne Mackinaon’s choice.
Elizabeth Mildred’s gown of heavy white
shantung featured a draped skirt and a
trail of pink roses. Janet Downie (Tas-
mania), who is Margaret Herring’s guest,
wore oyster-toned satin-brocade. Prue
Elder’s azure-blue satin frock had the
short-sleeved bodice encrusted with large
pearls and opalescent sequins. Mrs. Jim
McCoy’s lovely gown of midnight-blue
satin had a series of folds across the
back of the skirt.
tic tit tit
The gala opening of the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust’s grand-opera season at the
Princess with Verdi’s “Otello” was a
triumph for the all-Australian cast. It
was, 100, a gala night as to fashion.
One of the most beautiful gowns was
the embroidered white satin worn by Mrs.
Garnet Carroll. With her was Mrs. Keith
Fairley, whose choice was white French
lace. The Lady Mayoress (Mrs. F. W.
Thomas) wore blue, silver and cream
satin-brocade with the fullness of the
skirt drawn to the back to form a short
train. Of Kelly-green chiffon (shoulder-
straps and bodice embroidered in silver)
was Mrs. Henry Bolte’s gown. Lady
Dowling, wife of the Vice-Admiral, wore
bronze" shot-taffeta with a short ermine
jacket.
Mrs. Sidney Baillieu Myer’s gown of
cafe au lait duchess satin was embroidered
in silver. Lady Selleck wore a short dove-
grey velvet ballerina frock. Mrs. James
McGauran covered her emerald-green
chiffon frock with a mink coat; her jet-
beaded gloves matched her evening-bag.
Mrs. W. J. F. McDonald wore black
chiffons. Both Jennie and Eileen Brennan
wore gowns which carried beautiful
embroidery.
V V V
Guests-of-honor at a late-afternoon
reception given at the Town Hall by the
Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress (Cr.
and Mrs. F. W. Thomas) were Sir Stewart
Duke-Elder (he is surgeon-oculist to the
Queen) and Lady Duke-Elder, who wore
a slim-fitting black silk frock and a small
bandeau of black velvet trimmed with
rhinestone ornaments. Mrs. Thomas
added to her tailored suit of black
barathea a pale-gold cloche. Among the
guests were the president of the Ophthal-
mological Society of Australia (Dr. Kevin
O’Day) and Mrs. O’Day ; Dr. and Mrs.
Ringland Anderson; Professor Ida
Mann; Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Joyce;
University Chancellor Mr. Justice Dean
and Mrs. Dean ; Cr. and Mrs. Douglas
Cox ; Mr. and Mrs. John Inkster; Cr.
and Mrs. Leo Curtis ; and Lady Connelly.
tic tic *
At the luncheon given in her honor by
the Mother’s Day committee of the Royal
Women’s Hospital, Dame Sybil Thorndike
(who was accompanied by her husband.
Sir Lewis Casson, her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. John Casson, and granddaughter,
Jane Casson) made a very amusing
speech. She was welcomed by committee-
president Lady Tait. So far this year the
committee has raised £7500 for the hos-
pital. At the luncheon were the president
of the hospital (Miss Kathleen Syme),
Mr. and Mrs. Terry Vaughan, Mr. Charles
Dearden, Mrs. S. G. Aarons, Eileen
Hattam, Mrs. T. Alan Mackay, Mrs.
Dick Doyle,-Mrs. Val. Gibbs, Mrs. T.
Wallace Mitchell and Mrs. Eric Cottrell.
Mrs. Ronald Marriott, of Toorak, is
vice-president of the Whernside Auxiliary
to the Royal Melbourne Hospital and is
also on the central council. She was a
member of the committee which recently
organised a series of functions for the
Florence Nightingale appeal and is a
member of the St. Catherine Old Girls'
Association. At present she is organising
with the committee a display of flower-
arrangements which will be shown in the
new school-hall at St. Catherine's in
Heyington Place. There will be a private
viewing on the afternoon of October 25,
and that night and the next day the dis-
play will be open to the public ( admission,
45.). Mrs. Marriott, who has two chil-
dren, Stephen and Miranda, is a regular
theatre first-nighter.
Mrs. E. O. Morison came from
Ballarat to hear her daughter Elsie sing
the role of Mimi in “La Boheme,” and a
most rewarding trip it was, for the first-
night audience at the Princess acclaimed
the singer’s performance with the greatest
enthusiasm. Elsie’s brother-in-law and
sister, Mr. and Mrs. R. Page, and their
son Alex were also present. Others noted
were Mrs. Garnet Carroll, wearing a
short frock' of white faille embroidered
with crystals and pearls, and a matching
theatre-coat, similarly embroidered ; Mrs.
Keith Fairley, Mrs. Massey Burnside,
Mrs. Rupert Downes and her daughter
Mrs. Jim Campbell; Sir Robert Knox
(a director of the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust) and his sister, Mrs. Eric Murray,
Mrs. Ronald Fortt, and Misses Katherine
and Isobel Morison (aunts of the singer).
# V V
Bowls of white blossom, lilies and
gladioli decorated the foyer of No. 9
Darling Street, South Yarra, when the
Medical Wives Auxiliary to Prince
Henry’s Hospital held a dinner-dance.
Every table was decorated with a posy of
white and pink rhododendrons. President
of the auxiliary Mrs. Douglas Donald
wore a short bouffant frock of white silk
faille patterned in large pink roses. She
and her husband (Dr. Donald), vice-
presidents Mrs. Geoffrey Newman Morris
and Mrs. George McEwen and their
medico-husbajids, arid hon. treasurer
Mrs. P. Ward-Farmer and Dr. Ward-
Farmer received the guests. Included in
Dr. and Mrs. Donald’s party were two
Americans, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Leahy,
she wearing a graceful gown of sea-green
chiffon. Dr. and Mrs. Emmet Spring
entertained guests, Mrs. Spring wearing a
lovely sheath of white guipure-lace with
rhinestones on the deep neckline. Among
their guests were Major L. F. Donnelly
(U.S. Assistant Air Force Attache) and
Mrs. Donnelly.
tic tic tic
The Bohemian Ball, held in the Royale
Ballroom and organised by the Robin
Hood committee (proceeds will go to the
Helping Hand Association for Mentally-
Retarded Children), had Montmartre as
its “setting.” Mrs. James Alston (wearing
a blue matador-suit) and her husband (a
character from the Left Bank) received
the guests, most of whom wore fancy-
dress. In the foyer were hung the winning
pictures in the Robin Hood art-competi-
tion, and during the evening cheques for
£5O were presented to Keith Hood for his
prizewinning oil-painting, “Kitchen Still
Life,” and to Len Annois for his water-
color, “The City From Studley Park.”
Wearing frocks styled on the gay
’twenties (which, by the way, featured the
“sack”-line) were Pam Ingram, Mrs.
Harry Hodges and Mrs. Noel Thomas.
Official guests included Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Byrne, Mr. and Mrs. Eric West-
brook, Mr. and Mrs. H. Bartholomew
and Dr. G. R. D. Brothers (deputy
director of the Mental Hygiene
Authority). Ticket - secretaries. Mrs.
Robert Park, Mrs. Kip Porteous and
Patricia Grant, and other members of
the committee, took small parties.
tic tic tit
French Ambassador M. Renaud Sivan
came from Canberra to confer upon Mr.
Eric Lampe (president of the French
Chamber of Commerce in Victoria) the
Order of the Legion of Honor. The
ceremony took place at a party for 60
guests given by French Consul M. Le
Bas de Plumetot and his wife at their
Toorak home. Madame Le Bas de
Plumetot will'return to France in mid-
December and will spend Christmas with
her sister- Mrs. Alec Rohrback in
Johannesburg. The Consul will leave
early next year.


The voice belonged to a
youngish fellow with a twitch
on the side of his face.
Mr. Selwyn looked at the
fire door for the first time, a
huge steel door that could be
slid across the corridor to shut
it off entirely. It fitted into a
slot in the opposite wall.
“Ha, ha!” laughed the stout
man wheezily. “Reminds you
of the French Revolution, does
it? It does me, too. Only it
should work up and down, and
not across.”
He explained the comic fancy
to Mr. Selwyn. “It’s the sloping
top —just like the blade of the
guillotine. See it now?”
Mr. Selwyn saw it. He was
saved additional choice fancies
by the return of the girl. “Mr.
Fairfax, Dr. Sweetman is
ready now to see you.”
Mr. Fairfax was the stout
man. “Cheerio,” he said to Mr.
Selwyn. “Goo’-luck,” he said
to the rest of the bench, and
waddled off.
Mr. Selwyn gave a sigh of
relief.
TTOURS went by. No tell-
•*-*- ing how many. This place
was timeless.
At long, long last, the girl,
again minus cup and saucer,
flitted forth to answer a distant
bell. Mr. Selwyn hadn’t before
associated her movements with
the bell. But she was motivated
and activated or stimulated by
the bell.
She came back and said,
“Mr. Selwyn, Dr. Sweetman
will see you now.”
Dr. Sweetman was writing
something at a desk. His
fountain-pen scratched, and the
sound magnified tenfold in this
bleak consulting-room.
He looked up. “Oh, good-
afternoon, Mr. Selwyn!”
So it was afternoon now.
It must be, if the doctor said so.
“Strip!” called Dr. Sweet-
man briskly, breaking into Mr.
Selwyn’s reverie.
“Everything, doctor?”
“Everything, except your
trousers.”
“Now, let me see,” said the
doctor, again very briskly.
And the examination was on.
Dr. Sweetman was as cold
as the room. His grey, ashy
face was expressionless and
neutral. His close-clipped hair
was a proper jail-cut. Feeling-
less, emotionless, heartless.
Nothing brutal about him ; just
colorless. An automaton. A
passionless machine. Not a
man any mere. Not even a
doctor. But just a medical
officer.
And then Mr. Selwyn saw
the pouches. Neat symmetrical
pouches hanging beneath the
doctor’s cold, grey eyes. Good
—Mr. Selwyn found the
pouches fascinating . and con-
soling: the doctor was human
too, with all the implications of
being human ...
Mr. Selwyn was tapped and
thumped all over. And stetho-
scoped. And pricked lightly
with pins. And prodded with
fingertips. He bent over. And
stood up straight. He breathed
in and breathed out. And said
a number. And stood on a
scales, and under a measuring-
rod. His toenails and eyelids
and inner ears gave up their
secrets. He held up arms and
knees. And stood on one leg
and then the other. And
walked straight lines, with a
forefinger extended, like a
lance in rest. And was cate-
chised and cross-examined and
no doubt proved a liar . . .
The scratchy fountain-pen
from time to time recorded it
all, on a card. And then, when
he was expecting the search to
be pursued internally and with
greater thoroughness, the
doctor said to him, “Get
dressed now!”
Mr. Selwyn draped his un-
lovely frame. Clothes a size
larger than before. Two sizes
larger. And that wasn’t fancy
either.
“Sit down!” said the doctor.
The pen devoured more of the
blank places and dotted lines
of the card. Mr. Selwyn listened
and waited for the verdict.
Guilty, of course, and then the
sentence . . .
Dr. Sweetman looked up and
bent a level gaze on Mr.
Selwyn ; one last, long look of
appraisement that told not a
thing; nothing beyond, “You
will hear in due course.”
T>ACK at Graham Street next
day old Joe Calder said
cheerfully, “How did you get
on, Steve, old boy? 0.K., I
know, Steve. I can see it in your
eye.”
“Yes, Joe, I think I got on
all right.”
“Good on you, Steve! The
examination —pretty searching,
hey?”
“It was indeed that, Joe.”
“You didn’t,” said Joe with
great shrewdness, “tell him
about that?”
“No, Joe, I certainly didn’t.”
“And did he find out? Do
you think he found out at all?”
“I don’t think so, Joe. Funny
thing, Joe, but, do
that didn’t worry me while I
was there.”
“That’s great, Steve. Those
medical guys are a pretty alert
lot, believe me they are. But
they don’t know everything,
and they don’t see everything.
You’ll be all right, Steve. No
doubt about that at all. Right
as the bank. And, by the way,
Steve, did he feel your biceps?”
“No, he didn’t. About the
only thing he didn’t feel.”
“A great pity, Steve. You
should have insisted on him
feeling your biceps.”
Then did Mr. Calder hop
round, in mysterious confi-
dence, to bespeak his cronies,
nods and winks fraught with
the duplicities of sympathy
and concern: “Poor old
Steve! Had it, I reckon. Told
him nothing, you know. That’s
bad. Skids under him all right.
Ah, well, it comes to us all in
time. Poor old Steve!”
And then to the new Head.
Mr. Calder danced attendance
more fussily than ever. Shed
years and years in doing so ;
delicately intimated that the
doctor hadn’t exactly found
out about that. Inferred that
that wasn’t the only thing wrong
by any manner of means.
Sighed heavily, with dreadful
relish, to say “Poor old Mr.
Selwyn! ”
The Head stared grimly at
Mr. Calder, but said nothing
beyond a possibly Napoleonic
grunt.
In a week or two, in that
due course, Mr. Selwyn got
word: Retirement.
TMTR. CALDER worked up a
terrible indignation. “By
God, Steve, old man, but
aren’t they a lousy lot! A man.
as good as ever, and they bung
him out like that! But what a
pity, Steve, you forgot to show
him your biceps.”
And Steve said, “It’s a
miserable bit of a pension, Joe.
Not near enough to live on
these times. The missus will
go mad about it.”
“Too bad, Steve,”
“The missus will go mad
about it, Joe.”
Mr. Calder clicked his teeth,
half real and half false, but
all of them clickable.
“And,” said Mr. Selwyn
bitterly, “she can go mad. She’s
got a whole houseful of bloody
modern gadgets. That’s what
she has. She can sell- them
now, if she can.” The lean
muscles of his neck went into
knots.
“Too bad, Steve.” Joe gave
another click or two. As a
bachelor he could afford to be
sympathetic.
The Head was not at all
surprised : Mr. Calder had
already told him, anyway. He
cut short Mr. Selwyn’s financial
and domestic litany with “All
I can say, Mr. Selwyn, is that
I’m sorry. But it is one of
those things you must take
philosophically.”
Then he went on writing
busily. Something very im-
portant, in the interests of effi-
ciency, no doubt.
Mr. Selwyn tottered out, and
the Head stole a look at his
retreating form . . . “Skids, hey!
All I can hope is that the next
set is fitted under that im-
possible cock-sparrow, Calder.”
In three months to the very
day of Mr. Selwyn’s retirement,
Mr. Calder was notified of his
medical inspection. To it he
went off breezily and returned
jauntily. Nothing to it. Noth-
ing at all.
But just the same, in due
course, came the notice of
retirement. He was too crushed,
bemused and confused, to
wonder clearly how the bloody
skids came to be put under
him.
r T’HE Head was privately
- 1 delighted. Master as he
was of Napoleonic control, he
could scarce hide his delight.
Two of the worst of them
gone—the deadest wood and
the biggest spanners. Medical
inspection, and a fitting word
from himself. That was all,
and away they went on the
skids! Good old skids! That
was the way to get rid of
them—the clogs, the burdens,
the incubuses (or incubi) . . .
There were others, too, who
little thought that the skids were
being prepared for them. But
they were. And wouldn’t they
get a shock! The dramatic
irony of their unawareness gave
a certain degree of pleasure
. . . And the School, great
Graham Street, how it would
rise from height to height! He
calculated.. He had- fourteen
years before him to make the
•name of the school, and his
own name, a light to shine to
the very end of time.
He mused and toyed with a
happy conceit . . . Arnold of
Rugby . . . Kilgour of Fort
Street . . . Weigall of Yes,
he was young ; only 51. Four-
teen years before him. No
silly business of retiring at 60
for. him. Go right on to 65. No,
indeed, no skids for him. . .
Daydream and reverie. And
in it he dropped over his desk
and went to sleep. Fast asleep.
At the inquest, the doctor,
apparently not knowing of the
skids, said Coronary Occlusion.


N.S.W., and currently State
jnember for Drummoyne,
speaking in the Macquarie-
street House.
“This problem,” he said,
“may be likened to that of the
toll of the road—dreadful and
shocking waste of young lives.
“Young people today indulge
jn every conceivable type of
crime. In 1953 there, were
3839 cases of serious crime and
1426 cases of lesser crime. The
corresponding figures for 1954
were 4278 and 1721. The
total juvenile offenders in
1954 was 5999. Statistics for
1955 show an increase of over
2000.”
S o m e t h i ng not publicly
known, he declared, was the
reason of the Police Commis-
sioner for not publishing the
figures for juvenile offenders in
his last report. Statistics of
juvenile crime prepared by the
Police Department had never
agreed with those prepared by
the Department of Child
Welfare. There was a reason
for the non-publication of the
figures by the police:
“These figures have not been
given because for many years
the Police Department has
indulged in a practice that is
quite illegal, a practice that has
been followed not only during
the regime of Labor.
“Of course, those in
authority have thought they
were acting rightly, but it is
time the practice was made
legal. No one has any right
to condone an offence or deal
with it in any way ; it should
be dealt with by the court.
For the past 19 years the Police
Department has not followed
this practice when dealing with
juvenile offenders.
“Where compensation has
been paid, and where the police
agree, the child and parents
are brought before a divisional
officer and cautioned. That is
why in the last return of the
Police Commissioner the figures
of juvenile crime have not been
included.”
He himself considered that
the result obtained by this
method was just as good as
that obtained by bringing the
children before the coqrt. As
to causes:
“A number of causes have
brought about an increase in
child delinquency. Recently I
asked one of our magistrates
who sat in the Children’s Court
what he thought was the cause
?f the rapid and appalling
increase in juvenile crime. He
replied that it was an after-
math of the war.
“Though I respect the views
of that learned and capable
magistrate, I do not think the
increase is entirely attributable
to that.
“I have grouped the causes
under six headings: lack of
parental control, unsuitable
films and literature, the in-
creased tendency to gamble in
an effort to get rich quickly,
the abuses of strong drink, the
gradual decline in the moral
tone of the community, and a
few medical causes.
“At present I have under my
notice 14 cases in which parents
have brought problem
children to me, and I am
trying to help them. They
tell me that they have done
everything they can for their
children; that they dress
them well, look after their
health, their teeth and their
food, and then they ask why
their children have gone
wrong.”
He had carried out inspec-
tions in the schools in his elec-
torate, and had given particular
attention to tuckshops and
other places where children
bought their food.
“One of their major
problems is to find change for
boys and girls who tender £1
notes to buy their lunch,” he
said. “Near my home a boy
tendered a shopkeeper a £5-
note. I fear that parents regard
pocket-money as conscience-
money.”
They, he said, looked after
their children’s health, teeth
and clothing, and gave them
plenty to spend. There the
matter ended.
It was true, he. added, that
many women went to work
and left their children without
caring what happened to them.
Many such women undoubtedly
were breadwinners. Unfor-
tunately, many were compelled
by circumstances to work. But
many others were not. These
should be prevented from leav-
ing their children at the mercy
of the world.
Mr. Lawrence said he had
recently visited a picture-
theatre where an A-class film
was showing.. He asked an
attendant why it was labelled
A-class, and was told that it
was not suitable for children.
“I said that I had thought
this to be so, and that was
why I had asked the question.
I asked him, also, why
hundreds of children were in
the theatre.”
The attendant had replied:
“This is just the place they
flock to.”
Australians gambled on
horses, dogs and everything in
the field of sport with the
exception, perhaps, of cricket.
wSpeaking to a teacher at one
school on this very problem,
he had been told that a boy,
10 years of age, had come
before him. During his inter-
rogation the boy had said:
“Yes, I have been doing a bit
of pinching.”
The teacher asked what he
had pinched, and the boy
replied,: “I pinched forty-quid.”
The teacher asked on what
the £4O had been spent; the
boy mentioned another lad and
said: “We did that on the
dogs.” Children were great
imitators.
“During my career at the
Criminal Investigation Branch,”
said Mr. Lawrence, “I had to
locate and apprehend a
juvenile offender, a boy riding
a bicycle. His school-bag
contained 250 bets. He was
an agent for the local starting-
price man and was being paid
2s. in the £l—this with the full
approval and acquiescence of
his parents.
“In earlier days—and I am
informed it is the same now —
it was quite common for
juvenile offenders, when spoken
to about their crimes, to boast
that they had ‘had a few beers’
and were under the influence of
drink.
“In my study of this problem,
I have visited hotels at night
and seen parents taking children
in pyjamas and prams inside
and into beer-gardens. These
are the hotels with the sign out-
side —the ‘Family Hotel,’ the
‘Wintergarden.’ What stark-
naked diabolical hypocrisy! ”
“Some psychologists,” he
added, “say that delinquent
children are misfits, that
‘they are a shingle short.’ State-
ments of this sort are nonsense.
My experience is the same as
that of any other person who
has had much to do with this
problem of delinquent children
. . . that 99 out of every 100
of such children are normal,
healthy young people.”
During his service in the
C. 1.8. he was struck by the
utter futility of arresting boys
and girls and sending them to
institutions and jails, only to
see them come out of these
places without homes, friends,
or money.
Inevitably they went back to
jail; and so began the un-
fortunate cycle. It was a great
pity that cycle stiff continued
all too often.
With the permission of the
Minister for Child Welfare and
the director of the department
he recently visited some of the
child-welfare homes, and he
wished to pay credit to the
present director and many of
his employees.
“However, I am convinced
that persons are not made
suitable for the care of these
children merely by their under-
going a university course or
because they have read
numerous textbooks,” he said.
“The person needed to solve
the problem of juvenile delin-
quency is one who has first the
interests of the children them-
selves close to his, or her,
heart”
As he was shown about one
institution he was struck, as he
had often been before, with the
oppressive feeling created by
locked doors.
“I was conducted by a man
with a big bundle of keys in
his hand, and as we went to
one room he would unlock the
door with one key ; as we went
to another he would unlock the
door with another, and so on,”
he said. There seemed to be
locked doors and more locked
doors. In these rooms there
were many children that any
parent would be glad to claim
as a son or daughter.
“After I had gone through
locked door after locked door
in one place, with the permis-
sion of the officer who was
conducting me I spoke to a
young girl. I said to her:
‘What are you doing here,
girlie?’ '
“Her answer was ‘Sir, I have
never had a chance.’
“She spoke truly. Most of
the juveniles who have become
problems in this community
have never had a chance.
An investigation of the
problem of juvenile delinquency
was needed, but it should not
be made by a departmental
body nor by the police. It
should be made by independent
persons.
He had heard some respon-
sible citizens of this community
say: “Look, there are child-
welfare institutions in this
State and there are organisa-
tions caring for juveniles, such
as the Police Boys’ Clubs and
all types of church bodies.”
They seemed to think that
was enough. “I regret that it
is not,” he said. “Any attempt
to deal with this problem
through a particular group
must be a failure. A broad
scheme is needed.”
It is a point worth
noting that nowhere does Mr.
Lawrence claim he knows the
complete answer. The problem
might not really have one.


Pastures,” from “Earth Visitors,” his
1926 volume?
When twilight strikes the road with
fire,
And the moon’s cold, erusted fluid
By some old magic of the night
Leaves thick beneath, on ruts and
mire,
Slow silver scales of light,
Softly along the road there goes
An old white stallion, tolling
With hoofs of chalk on ivory ground,
And earth’s all quiet, no whisper
blows
But that slow, hollow sound.
With eyes like jars of darkness and
dew,
And* nostrils cut from stone . . ,
Lazily, drowsily, bathed in grey,
Down the faint road his feet pursue
Their ancient, soundless way.
Would I rode with him, through the
night
Astride those frozen shoulders,
That milky mane, those tasselled
hoofs,
By miles of houses, powdered-white,
And miles of moonlit r00f5....
“Soundless” in the last line of the third
stanza is an obvious misprint, since the
hoofs have been making a “slow,
hollow sound” in the previous stanza;
but that could easily have been fixed
up. No; it is probably the last stanza
that lost the poem its place: —
Would I could seek with him those
far,
Sweet, secret pasturages
Down many a silent, silver street
Where fire-eyed mountain brumbies
are,
And phantom horse-bells beat!
“Brumbies”! How had he come to
write that Patersonian word? People
would think he was a gumleaf bard!
Obviously, that was enough.
R. McC.
Easter Island
It seems extraordinary that the
account of an expedition of 1934
should only now have been published
as, at least for the first time in English,
is Easter Island (Andre Deutsch), by
Alfred Metraux, translated from the
French by Michael Bullock: but
Metraux candidly* admits what is the
obvious reason, that Thor Heyerdahl,
of the Kon-Tiki, has given the subject
fresh topicality, and Metraux, of course,
disagrees with him.
Heyerdahl, it will be recalled, said
that the gigantic stone statues which
have excited the wonder of mankind
ever since Roggeveen first saw them in
1722 were carved by his white-skinned,
red-haired refugees from Peru, who
were supposed to have drifted across
the Pacific on balsa-wood rafts of
which the Kon-Tiki was a copy. Other
theorists have maintained that they
were the work of Indian or Chinese
sculptors; or even that they are the
relics of a sunken continent.
Metraux thinks they were made—
and not long ago; the work having
ceased only in the 18th century —by
the ancestors of the present Easter
Islanders, a people whom he himself
admits are indistinguishable from other
Polynesians such as the Marquesans
and the Maoris.
The answer to that seems to be that
nowhere else, in all the islands they
occupied, though other kinds of stone-
work are found in some of them, did
the Polynesians make stone sculptures
remotely resembling the giant figures
of Easter Island; nor is there to be
found on any of the other islands the
script or picture-writing on wood and
stone which is the second great mystery
of Easter Island and in which the rival
theorists are again able to find
resemblances to the crafts of India,
China or Peru. Nor do the Polynesians
anywhere else practise the bird-cult
of Easter Island.
There does not seem to be much
substance in the arguments which
Metraux advances in support of his
theory. If it is plausible, for instance,
that the Polynesians turned to stone-
carving because of the shortage of
timber on Easter Island, we would still
expect them to carve in stone some-
thing like the Maori totem-poles, which
the Easter Island figures do not in the
least resemble. And if. as he maintains,
the fact that the Easter Islanders have
continued to carve wooden figures
resembling the ancient designs suggests
that there has been a continuity of
craftsmanship —“It is perfectly obvious
that the Easter Island monuments have
been erected by one and the same
population”—there is still nothing to
prove that the Polynesians did not
simply copy the designs of the
supposed earlier inhabitants.
That there were earlier inhabitants
of a different race is most strongly
suggested by the myth of the war of
extermination between the “long-ears”
and the “short-ears” which Metraux
himself learned from the natives and
which Heyerdahl, because the ancient
Peruvians lengthened the lobes of their
ears, used in support of his theory;
and the very fact that this warfare
has passed into mythology, as has
almost everything else to do with the
monuments —they were moved, the
natives told Metraux, “in a dream”—
surely suggests that it all happened very
much longer ago than the 18th
century.
Finally, one must add that Metraux
does not seem to have read Heyerdahl
very thoroughly when he can assert
that “no one has yet detected in the
Easter vocabulary any survivals of
a foreign tongue.” One of Heyerdahl’s
principal arguments, supported with a
wealth of plausible, if not conclusive,
evidence, was that all the Polynesian
dialects contain a great many words,
particularly proper-names and place-
names, resembling those of Peru.
However, if one cannot value the
book highly as a reply to Heyerdahl
or an elucidation of the Easter Island
mystery, it remains both valuable and
entertaining, because Metraux, with his
French expedition of 1934 ? lived on
the island and studied it at first-hand,
hearing myths from the natives, being
robbed by them as they have robbed
all other voyagers, learning of the
problems of the British pastoral
company which leased the island from
the Chilean Government (the nqtivos
stole 3000 of their sheep in one year),
and being duly impressed by the quarry
of Rano-raraku, where the great
statues stand in silence and where
the tools of the makers still lie
where they dropped them when the
catastrophe, whatever it may have
been, fell upon them.
Metraux gives, too. a very lively
history of the island in European
times: the tragic encounters with
the first white men; the appalling
brutalities of the Chilean slave-traders;
the heroic tragi-comedy of Brother
Eugene Eyraud who in 1862 settled
alone on the island to convert the
natives and who was robbed by them
of everything he possessed —they even
tried to blackmail him out of his
trousers when he was down a well—
so that when his relief-ship arrived he
greeted it wearing nothing but a
blanket and a beard. Probably the
gift which they valued most highly of
all those with which Brother Eugene
willingly or unwillingly provided them
was the corrugated-iron hut which he
put up on his second visit (to keep
his possessions safe from pilferers) and
which, when they bombarded him
with stones, as they invariably
bombarded all European visitors,
made an uproar as delectable as it was
new to them.
Neapolitan Children
Morris West, an Australian author,
went to Naples to get ideas for a novel,
but stayed to draw up a social indict-
ment, Children of the Sun (Heine-
mann), of conditions brought about by
Naples having 200,000 of Italy’s two
million unemployed.
Shown families living nine to a
room, all sleeping somehow in the
same bed, he is told that these are the
more fortunate of the slum-dwellers,
much better off and more respectable
than those living fifteen to a room and
having no work to do, where proximity


cJreaMire
(Just Published )
We have a few
LIMITED
EDITION
COPIES
Signed and Numbered
Beautifully illustrated
by
Australian Artist,
William Bustard
Bound in Fine
Leather and Titled
in Gold
As a “Gift” to Son,
Grandson or Nephew
a life - lasting
memento
ASK TO SEE IT
at
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
Pty/Ltd.
304 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE : B 2461
Book buying is easy at GRAHAM E’S
If you enjoy browsing, when you buy books, you should pay us a visit
because we have books by the thousands, on all subjects, arranged for
quick reference and handy selection.
If you prefer to discuss your book requirements, whether they be books
for leisure, books for study or books for gifts, our trained assistants will
be pleased to help.
If unable to call our Mail Order section is at your service. Mail orders
and magazine subscriptions receive prompt attention.
THE GRAMME BOOK CO.
Pty. Ltd. Cnr. Elizabeth Street and
Martin Place, Sydney. BW 2261
BOOKS
MAGAZINE
SUBSCRIPTIONS
l.p. record;
MUSIC
often gives girls their first sex-instruc-
tion from their brothers, and where
anxiety, despair and squalid immorality
deprive children of family affection
and respect and draw them out into
vagabondage in the streets, thieving,
being taken up by prostitutes and worse
at ages of as low as ten, and sleeping in
doorways and under stairways, on
stone.
A Catholic himself, West is not
uncritical of his own church, sometimes
for its “puritanism” which occasionally
tends to shove even girls who marry
their seducers beyond the pale with
Italy’s 200,000 prostitutes, other times
for its tendency to support conditions
as they are; but his book is mainly in
praise of Don Mario Borelli, a priest
who persuaded his Cardinal to allow
him to change his vestments for the
shirt, pants and cap of the lost louts
(there is a most convincing picture
of him in this rigout on the frontis-
piece), take part in their depredations
as one of them, and, having gained
their confidence, draw them into a
boys’ home he hoped to establish.
In fact, that is what he has done,
and what Morris West’s book is about;
but, says West, it is one thing to reclaim
the boys and another to get them jobs
outside the home, or away from the
solicitations of their families to return
to the old grime. The solution, he
considers, is an emigration scheme by
which they can be brought to Aus-
tralia or the U.S. Replies West has had
from letters to the Australian Minister
in Rome (Paul McGuire) seem to
suggest that such a scheme depends on
“private charity.”
European Folklore
Clement Hosking, whose love of folk-
songs led him to give performances of
them with his singers in national
costumes spinning the wool and beat-
ing the grain and doing the other duties
to which the songs used to be accom-
paniments, has raked the authorities
right down to Frazer’s “Golden Bough”
for a book of European customs and
legends, Old Tales in a New Land
(Angus and Robertson), with tasteful
chapter-heads by Norman Hether-
ington.
His stories and quaint observances
are set in Holland, Estonia, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, the Ukraine
and Russia. They thought-up the
damnedest things; for instance, in
Estonia,
Once a youth had decided upon
a girl he desired for a wife he sought
the assistance of a well-respected
inhabitant of the village, and
together the pair went off to see the
father of the maiden. They greeted
him (who knew well why they had
come) with words of this nature,
“We have lost a little pig. Can you
tell us where we may find him?”
Now if the man did not wish to have
the youth as a son-in-law he replied
in the negative, but if he thought the
match might be a suitable one he
pretended to ponder for a moment or
two and would then say, “Let me
think, now. I did see a small pig
somewhere. Come inside and we
will discuss the matter in comfort.”
The Slovaks showed more delicacy;
the would-bc bridegroom arrives with
a friend:—
They knock upon the door, and
when it is opened to them by the
maiden’s parents they announce that
they have come seeking a star. They
are invited to enter, and once within
they make a pretence of searching
the dwelling, for the bride-to-be,
having caught sight of them, has
concealed herself. “Here is our
star!” shout the lads as they come
upon her, and they escort her
in triumph back into the presence of
her parents. *
These days it’d have to be a poor
night on the TV for anyone to waste
all that time on all that nonsense; but
if you want to see how Europe con-
trived to decorate her life and make up
her own entertainments and legends
before Hollywood, “Confidential”
scandal-magazines and television took
over the world’s popular poetry-
provision here is Clement Hosking with
the synopsis.
The Secret of the Swinging Boom:
E. M. Robinson (Hammond). Leaving
her art-studies in Paris to meet her
aunt, who sails a yacht single-handed
on the Riviera, the heroine finds the
yacht but no aunt, is bewildered by a
boatman, fretted by her fiance, chided
by the French Customs —it turns out
that they suspect her aunt of smuggling
gold and stolen jewels between France
and Tangier. Not much to it, not
badly worked-out.


If you
really
m
m
ro:-
m
■
care for
your car
* 6fc
always
use
Just like people, car engines respond to
kindness. Try it and see. Give your
car the blended, balanced, cushioning
lubrication of ENERGOL. Then sit
back, relax and wait for your reward—
easy starting, smooth running and a
firm refusal by your engine to cause
you undue expense or trouble. A
planned programme of ENERGOL
lubrication will keep you and your
car on the best of terms —particularly
on resale value.
ENERGOL
A complete range of EMERGOL
automotive oils, including
ENERGOL Visco-Static motor oil,
is available where you see these
pumps.
I
SUPER
J
ENEHGOL
LU BRICATi ON SERVICE
jj£rkgtej_j>y_THE_COMMONIWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD, an associate of The British Petroleum Company ltd
C 548
