

/
w,
SOLERO
SWEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
“THE QUESTION ,f — PAGE 20
The Bulletin,” Vol. 78—No. 4017
Wednesday, February 6, 1957
Price 1/-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
No. 335: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.
HUGHENDEN MANOR, WHERE THE SPIRIT OF DISRAELI LIVES ON
HUGHENDEN MANOR, two miles -north of High Wycombe, in the
Chiltern Hills of Buckinghamshire, was the country house of Benjamin
Disraeli, Earl of Beaconsfield, between the years 1848 to 1881. This famous
Prime Minister of England held office in 1868 and from 1874 to 1880 in the
reign of Queen Victoria. He bought Hughenden in 1848 and it was there
that he died in 1881. The manor is now in the care of the National Trust
and part of it is maintained as a Disraeli Museum.
When Disraeli bought Hughenden it was a plain bow-fronted building,
surmounted by a low-pitched slate-roof—a typical medium sized country house
of the late 18th or early 19th century. The price paid for the house and 750
acres of land was £27,000, which he borrowed from his friends Lord George
and Lord Henry Bentinck. Early in the 1860's Disraeli commissioned the
architect Edward B. Lamb to refashion the house, which he completed in
1863 —the result, particularly to the exterior of the house, was curious rather,
than attractive. It does, however, show the kind of house which a successful
politician rebuilt and furnished during Victorian times. This is clearly evident
throughout the building, but more particularly in the Drawing-room, which
epitomises cultured mid-Victorian taste, and visitors can see here portraits of
Disraeli and his political contemporaries.
The great statesman’s study, on the first floor, is maintained just as he
left it in 1881, and it contains some of his most intimate and prized possessions,
including a chair that once belonged to Edmund Burke, his school-desk, some
of his school-books, his wife’s diaries and account-books, and editions of his
own and his father’s works.
The manor of Hughenden has had an ancient though comparatively
uneventful history. After the Conquest it was held by William the
Conqueror's half brother, Odo, Bishop of Bayeux. The Bishop fell into
disgrace and the property reverted to the Crown, and later Henry I granted it to
Geoffrey de Clinton, who subsequently gave it to the Priory of Kenilworth. In
later years, after the Dissolution of the Monasteries, Hughenden had a
number of owners, including the Earl of Carnarvon and the Earl of Chester-
field, before it was bought by Disraeli, who lies buried in the local churchyard.
His tomb is the goal of an annual pilgrimage on “Primrose Day,” and he is
commemorated in the church by an inscribed marble tablet erected by Queen
Victoria.


£2l
FOR HER
sth STORY
While Still Engaged on her Course.
STOTT Student (Mrs. L. King) received
that figure for her Short Story “Susan and
the Wolf.”
If you have the urge to write,- you can
learn to write Successful Stories, Articles,
Written Sketches, Radio Talks, Pars, Verse,
etc. There is a large and constant demand
for well-written work.
Our Literary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in Writing.
MAIL THE COUPON TODAY
—1
100 Russell St., Melbourne!; 149 Castlereagh St
Sydney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 2] Grenfell’
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
_ m ~ - CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S : Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
F.B, 357 AGE
SJOOIiHCNTEB, Box 26U, G.P.0., Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to obtain
\ olume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if suc-
cessful.
The Red Page
HEXAGONAL POETRY
No reviewer cares merely to point
out the obvious—it is so much more
gratifying to make some subtle dis-
covety—and the fault of Hal Porter’s
poems in The Hexagon (Angus and
Robertson) is so obvious that it really
is a little embarrassing to mention it.
It is, in a word, or in a convenient
Cliche—Mr. Porter makes us aware of
these niceties of language—that the
poet is too clever by half.
There are the rare and recondite
words. There is the romantic and
slightly indigestible mixture of
imagery, taken from art, literature,
philosophy and travel and piled heavily
upon the essential simplicities of
Nature and love. There is the conse-
quent loading, packing, burdening of
the stanza until every word becomes
not so much a step forward as a
stumbling-block. There is the freezing
of emotion as well as fluency in this
ice-pack of verbiage. As in Hal
Porter’s early short-stories, before they
came through to their present admir-
able balance of narrative and stylism,
the reader is continually aware of an
art that reveals art, indeed blazons it,
instead of concealing it as good style
is supposed to do.
All of which—to be done with it —
may be exemplified in the following
stanza; which (one really must explain)
has something to do with thistles:—
a covenant of zigzag weed
in impious coronas of thorns
on this golgothic block paraded:
domain its very godhead scorns—
granular, homy, blaze-degraded ;
all but the saviour-weeds abraded.
But if Mr. Porter is thus obviously
too clever by half, there remains the
other half—or should it be the other
unit?: this is really a very difficult
mathematical problem—and it is there
that discoveries are to be made. There
is the half—or the unit —where the
poetry is, in its curious way, excellent.
There are, for instance, the occasions
when the imagery remains largely “in
keeping,” consistent; so that in spite
of “jibbahs” (whatever they may be),
in spite of “sacrificial tulles of dust,”
and in spite of —or even because of:
the images being oddly appropriate—
High Court judges and lonic sculptures,
there emerges from Mr. Porter’s
bewilderingly opulent mind a very clear
and amusing picture of sheep:—
Disquieted, illusionless, from jibbahs
stuck with twigs,
the visors carved with grieving mourn
beneath judicial wigs ;
upon their brows in horny pride
lonic head-dress coils,
while eyes, opaque with hankering,
roll in their timid oils:
“Here and here, man, m-a-a-n.”
Again, there are the occasions,
particularly in the love-poems—and
here, even to one who has long admired
his poetry, Mr. Porter provides a
surprising discovery—when, tender or
violent, lyrical or macabre, intensity of
feeling breaks through the ingenuities
of technique and subtleties of thought:
I saw bite deep with’s passion, and
poison
with its light
my body that it suckled on —love
the parasite—
and, weaned and wildfire, slip
between the fents
of time and space ;
disguise withdrawn, how monkey-
sick the world’s
Sahara face.
But you cannot merely pick little
bits out of these poems and admire
them. They are so much of-a-piece,
so much in the one manner—and that,
though it may derive from Donne,
strikingly individual —that you must
take them whole or not at all. And
so, finally, there are the virtues that lie
throughout the book . inextricably
entwined with the faults.
In the first place it must be recog-
nised that Mr. Porter, though often
difficult in the way of a jigsaw-puzzle,
which his poems very much resemble,
is never really obscure. It must be
recognised that his rare and recondite
words, if they seem to be rather
paraded, enlarge and enrich the
vocabulary of poetry; and both
“jibbahs” and “fents,” surprisingly
enough, do exist.
There is the ingenuity of the tech-
nique itself, diversified with unusual
rhymes and crammed with close-
wrought effects of internal-rhyme and
alliteration. There is the continual
search for the exact word —not any-
body’s cliche but the thing Mr. Porter
has seen for himself, like the ranges
“ripped from silk” or a whole land-
scape in the milky blues and whites
of lalique glass; and the similar,
patient search for exactitude of
thought.
Everywhere there is compactness;
everywhere there is originality; every-
where there is the stamp of a cultivated
mind; and everywhere, from the
mixture of all these elements, there is
a curiously exotic effect: the book is
like Persian tiles, like a tessellated
pavement, like a mosaic. Mr. Porter
himself sees it as “hexagonal,” like the
cells in honeycomb: a very fair picture
of it—rather hard to separate (into
poems that stand firmly and clearly by
themselves: anthology-pieces) but
shaped with precise geometry, rich in
the mass and full of (rather bitter)
honey.
The publishers have printed it in an
exceptionally attractive format.
Puppets Everywhere
Jan Bussell, the puppeteer who
visited Australia a while ago, has
written yet another book, Through
Wooden Eyes (Faber), this time on
other puppeteers he met on his travels,
an Englishwoman who lived and
showed puppets in a made-over hen-
house, the heads of the puppets being
hens’-eggs for gay puppets and ducks’-
eggs for sad puppets; the puppet-
theatre Georges Sand and her son
used to run at Nohant; the 4ft. puppets
worked by the Giovanni brothers at
Naples, with the tenor who flung him-
self apart in his ecstasy; and the aged
puppeteer of Marseilles, too old to
work string-puppets, who gave the
Bussells his Bell Dancer.
In Switzerland they attended a course
of lectures on shadow-puppets, and
met Fred Schneckenburgher, who
really had something new: —
The many-eyed creature is a
member of the Secret Police, with
eyes all round his head and guns
for fingers. The puppet who seemed
to be all mouth with two little
frightened eyes inside is a singer
who, after waiting all her life in the
chorus, found she had no longer a
voice when her big chance came.
The revolting thing with beard and
hair of moulted feathers is “a dirty
old man.” There was “Mr.
Irresolute,” who was so torn between
the propaganda of different poli-
ticians and his own desires that his
head splits right, in half, emitting a
large soap-rbubble which pops . . .
But the number-one exhibit is
Obratsov, controller of the State Puppet
Theatre in Moscow, with 200 assistants
on his payroll. He came over to
England and showed them all the
permutations of love as enacted by Two
monkeys; explained how sometimes
three or four actors might be required
to operate one figure; or in the case
of a puppet sitting in a bath the legs,
arms and head might be separate
puppets; he let them see his actors
(manipulators) working rod-puppets
from underneath the stage in a ballet-
scene, where the contortions of the
manipulators were much more intricate
than those of the puppets, and men-
tioned that the three-act plays he staged
at Moscow sometimes used as many
as 150 puppets, while they might use
as many as 14 different puppets to
express one character.
After a most appreciative and
thorough report on Obratsov’s shows
and technique, however, Mr. Bussell
concludes too much ingenuity can go
to making puppets human when
human beings are available to play
human beings.
The book ends with an account of
the Bussell company’s tour of South
Africa, where one of their black-
skinned puppets had to be repainted
because, under the apartheid doctrine,
black actors must not appear on a
stage with white actors.
Which shows that, as fact is stranger
than fiction, humans are funnier than
puppets.
THE POLYNESIANS
They were blown across the sea
Like spores of ferns and mosses.
Some survived. 'There were uncountable
losses ,
In a paddock in the King Country
A telegraph pole,
Ferns and moss all up one side of the bole.
In the distance a mountain
With bush to its summit;
And a long wind', with rain, blowing
from it.
N.z.
W. HART-SMITH.
American in Paris
If you can get through the opening
pages of A Surgeon in Paris (Museum)
where Dr. Charles F. Bove describes
the onset and treatment of his own
coronary thrombosis of 1941, you can
probably stomach anything in the
book, though it includes an irritable
octogenarian surgeon of his early days
ripping out an old woman’s kidney
under the impression it was a growth,
a makeshift tracheotomy in which he
cut a hole in a child’s throat with a
razor and held it open with two hair-
pins, the cutting-out of the heart of
a Communist airman of the Spanish
wars who had stabbed himself seven
times with a pair of scissors, the
sewing of it up and replacing it so
that he became well enough to jump
to his death out the window, and the
situation at the emergency army-
hospital at Biarritz in 1940 . . .
The chapters on the trip to Biarritz,
with operations and child-deliveries by
the roadside, and on the Biarritz
hospital, two buildings full of
gangrenous soldiers with all kinds of
wounds and, until Dr. Bove arrived,
not one surgeon in the place, will
probably go into history, or at any
rate into historical novels. The
brusque, overriding force of the
surgeon comes well through these
chapters, but never so well as when,
having been ordered out of the
reorganised hospital by the Germans
(with his patients, so that they could
be replaced by German patients), he
came into head-on collision on the
road back to Paris with the car of a
German colonel who had been trying
to pass his own tank-column at speed.
The colonel got out of his car and
came at the doctor shouting, his finger
on the trigger of his revolver. The
doctor took refuge in attack: “Your
chauffeur was driving like a lunatic.
He came round the bend at sixty miles
an hour!” The colonel roared back,
‘Your car was going like this and that!”
(describing a zig-zag with his revolver).
Hie spectacle of a civilian and an
officer drunk with victory reduced to
two car-owners in the middle of a war
is pretty good. Fortunately Dr. Bove
had his papers O.K.’d by the Germans
at Biarritz and America had not
entered the war. But the best part was
after the colonel’s car had been
righted and driven off:
The Nazi tank-drivers, all young
men, snickered. Several of them
proceeded to straighten up my front-
fenders so that the wheels could
turn. They were very friendly, and
one of them assured me in broken
French that the accident had been
the colonel’s fault. “He was in too
much of a hurry.”
Brooklyn-born, Dr. Bove was from
childhood the protege of an old
surgeon, and put himself through
Maryland Medical College, staying
during his first year at a Baltimore
boardinghouse where a little girl called
Wallis Warfield sometimes waited
upon him at table. Through his
interneship, and fresh from a tour of
European clinics, he had become
assistant to the pathologist at Johns
Hopkins hospital when he enlisted with
the British Army Medical Corps in
1916, serving in Belgium and France.
After the war he was persuaded to
join the staff of the American Hospital
in Paris, which had been completed,
with the aid of most of the famous
American millionaires, just in time to
look after America’s war-wounded
there.
To practise in Paris in peace-time
he had to go back to school and pass
the third, fourth and fifth years of
medicine under French examiners.
Working from 7 a.m. until midnight,
and using seven coaches, he passed all
the examinations in one year, becom-
ing the first American since the war to
receive a French degree.
His between-war years at the
American hospital are filled with some
of the best-known names in America
and France. He told Pershing, a bad
patient, to obey orders; he was
surprised to find Hemingway, after an
appendicitis operation, sitting up in
bed typing at “The Sun Also Rises”;
he was*annoyed that the patient on
whom he had performed an abdominal
operation had withheld from him her
name, Aimee Semple McPherson; he
was among Lindbergh’s welcomers;
attended Admiral Byrd’s crew after the
transatlantic plane America had
missed Le Bourget and been forced
down into the sea; left Mrs. William
Randolph Hearst’s bedside to walk
into the Stavisky riots of 1934, where
he operated on the wounded on the
tables of the Cafe Weber, using the
cafe linen for bandages, while waiters
became stretcher-bearers and the
management passed brandy to the
patients.
He was Kreuger’s doctor; and
Kreuger, at the peak of his match-box
empire, called him friend and offered
him a market-tip, whereupon Dr. Bove
invested 113,000 American dollars in
Kreuger concerns. It was Dr. Bove
who was called when Kreuger had
gone out and bought himself the largest
revolver he could find and shot himself
through the heart, and Dr. Bove who
lost all his 113,000 dollars. Then there
was the beautiful girl left on the stairs
of the hospital with a bullet in her
liver —after her death the police came
round; the whole thing must be
hushed-up; she had been with a South
American diplomat . . . and the lovely
Italian girl who resisted a vicious
young sports-promoter until he drugged
her so that she fell asleep in his car.
Her father let her have the baby in
secret, then, anxious not to be com-
promised himself, farmed it out,
whereupon the girl died of grief . . .
There was also Laval, whom the
doctor found peculiarly “evil,” and
who once asked him (he must have
been very drunk) to use his acquaint-
ance with Roosevelt to get the French
war-debt cancelled . . .
From all of which Dr. Bove retired
to Lourdes. As a doctor he rejects
most of the talk of cures, and as a
{Continued on page 55)


““Anthony Horderns
14
", S' ' y
....... * * * '* '
<&SB
m
K
r\
r
Sk.
/
&?*. ,-y.iK
£*
If
•:: ■:
I
I
m
S
MWS
39SS8S«& ••:' ’ x$
Sss
mm
m
m
m
m>y.
m
m.
WM
mr- ;; y
/»
■NI
. . . .
.... ... ...-. . :;..
r
f
HI
/
*j,
f\
Don’t
forget
to
go
to
ANTHONY’S
and
get
yourself
one
of
those
English
£l2/12/-
gaberdine coats
D.B. styles. Blue Grey, Fawn & Navy.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, February 6, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4017
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K, Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box 2521;
'Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite G.P.0.), Weliington.
NEHRU FACES BOTH WAYS
INDIA is a choice illustration of the need for the
United Nations either to enforce discipline or
to give-up altogether.
India’s Government has been the most self-
righteous of authorities ever since its accession to
independence, if the kind of Government it has
can be called a Government and not a one-man
dictatorship. “Free” its extraordinary leader is
in every sense of the word, for while he seems
perfectly free to - act as the moral schoolmaster
of the rest, he also feels free to take his own course,
even if it means forcing his will on smaller
communities.
He was free to leave the British Empire and
establish his own, but the integral parts of his new
nation, which are racially diverse in. religion and
languages, are periodically the victims of Nehru’s
coercive force. So far as these activities of his
are concerned, the United Nations, if its statutes are
contravened, can go and chase itself. He is, in
fact, a sort of womanish Stalin who attains his
ends mostly by guile and duplicity, and who regards
U.N. and the Commonwealth merely asinstruments
of his ends and beyond that pays no attention to
them at all except for what he can get out of
them.
He is opposed to Britain on almost every
international occasion. He makes it plain that
he looks on the United Kingdom as a reprehensible
colonial-minded nation only prevented from
aggressive domination of the Middle East and Asia
by force of world opinion. He was the ally of
Egypt, the backer of the U.S.A. and Cuba in
branding the British and French with ignominy and
hounding them out of the Middle East during the
Suez crisis, and earned laurels from both Nasser
and Washington by his befiavior.
At the same time he was either mute against,
or a'supporter of, Russia in Hungary during the
fateful months of November and December. He
has fully condoned the disobedience of the
Russians to the resolutions of the Security Council
and the United Nations Assembly about Hungary
and other vital matters. And he has since been
providing the Warsaw and Peking-Moscow
alliances with a platform from which to trumpet
their threats of reprisal against the Western world
if the Western world doesn’t leave the Communist
bloc to carry on its bloody tyranny and campaign
for world conquest uninterrupted.
It was Nehru who sterilised the British
Commonwealth. He is determined to stay in the
Commonwealth because he knows that without it
he would have to go to harder masters than the
tolerant British. But it was he who insisted that
the word “British” should be removed from the
title of the Commonwealth, and that the Queen
should be a Queen only of bits and pieces and
merely a vague “head” of the Commonwealth.
Both Nehru and Bandaranaike, of Ceylon,
expect to be defended if attacked and expect to be
consulted in defence. But they aren’t prepared
to concede to the Western nations the vital bases
of the type which Britain and other countries
concede to each other in Europe without destroying
each other’s sovereignty. If Nehru did he would
offend the Russians, and that would qever do. He
knows that he can offend the easier British and
the sentimental Amercans without reprisals, so he
has it both ways.
While wading into the British as aggressors
and supporting Nasser in spoilt-child moves which
have closed Suez, and whittled-away a lot of the
power of the rest of the Commonwealth to finance
the Colombo Plan and Seato to defend India, he
and his merry satellites regularly and graciously, as
if they were the benefactors, accept all the Colombo
Plan help they can get. while hanging garlands on
Khrushchev, Bulganin and Zhukov, the Russian-
bloc Defence Minister.
At present Nehru, having been entertained as
a “moral equal” in Washington and flattered there
as the head of the third great Power of the world—
the other two, of course, U.S. and U.S.S.R.. since
Britain, France and Germany were theoretically
eliminated—-is tangled up in the Kashmir problem
and entertaining the Russian Defence Minister,
as an indicator to U.N. and to the [British] Com-
monwealth and Seato Powers that however inter-
national his morality, when he is active in the
U.N., he rolls his own Russian-approved brand
at home.
He is, in the matter of Kashmir, engaged' in
a tortuous game. He has annexed part of the
State, in defiance of U.N., world and particularly
Pakistan opinion, and incorporated it in his new
empire. This is in flat disobedience of the Security
Council resolution and U.N. policy. He has, by
doing this, conciliated Hindu opinion and inflamed
the Mohammedans of Pakistan and implements a
cynical brand of colonialism, as blatant, if not as
violent, as that of the Russians in Hungary.
Nehru was in the van in offering troops for
the Emergency Force to hold off the British from
the Suez Canal. And he has now, following
immediately on his disobedience of the Security
Council in the matter of Kashmir, given a platform
to Zhukov and his co-operators in aggression.
The position is all the more deplorable, since
at the time Nehru was making these people welcome
and providing them with propaganda facilities,
Moscow was doing its utmost to sprag the feeble
attempts of the U.N. to police the Israel-Egyptian
armistice-line and ensure the keeping of the peace
in the Middle East.
There is nothing Moscow would like better
than a real flare-up between Israel and the Arab
countries which would set the Middle East aflaiqe,
except a war between India and Pakistan, which
would enable it to pile volunteers and materiel into
India, so easy a matter with contiguous borders
that nothing would need to be said publicly
about it.
It is time that his fellow Commonwealth Prime
Ministers asked Nehru where he stands. If he cares
to be independent, or if he cares to be a member
of the Russian bloc, or if he cares to flout U.N.
statutes —well, it is a free world. But wherever he
wishes to place himself, his associates can fairly
insist that he be definite. If he wants Colombo Plan
aid, then he can scarcely expect to be allowed to
act like an ally of the Russians against Colombo
Plan nations. If he expects to be able to use U.N.
to destroy and humiliate the British, whom —there
is no use being mealy-mouthed about it —he
apparently hates privately and will damage at every
opportunity, then he must obey the U.N. Charter.
The existing position regarding India is
dangerous, and its tortuous leader cannot expect
to be part of two systems at once—the buttresser
of the plans of Asiatic barbarism bent openly on
world conquest on the one hand and the arbiter
of what is right and wrong in Western civilisation
and the mentor of pacifism on the other hand; or
even colonial-minded and anti-colonial-minded
together.
Mr, Nehru should be told to stand still for a
while or else choose for his antics some place out-
side the Commonwealth which he is doing so much
to injure and break-up, though he denies any wish
to do so.
Cessnock and Productivity
IT may seem a little ironical that in the very week
in which the Summer School of the Australian
Institute of Political Science was discussing
“Productivity and Progress” coalminers in the
Cessnock district were receiving dismissal-notices
after a year of record coal-production in New
South Wales. Professor Clark Kerr, for example,
told the summer school: —
Productivity is a goal in its own right as well
as a test in the comparison of systems, for it is
the source of the standard-of-living of the people,
a major determinant of the availability of leisure,
a basis for the status and even the survival of a
nation —many a society in history has perished
for the lack of a superior productivity.
And Mr. Charles Geddes, general-secretary of the
British Union of Post Office Workers, said: —
Unions in Britain have no difficulty in seeing
v that in a high-employment economy the protect-
ing and advancing of members’ living standards
depend largely, in the long-run wholly, on push-
ing up output per man-hour.
This is a direct refutal of what was for many
years the traditional attitude of Australian trade-
unions towards all attempts to increase man-hour
output —an attitude of hostility engendered by fear
of unemployment and epitomised in the slogan
“Don’t work yourself out of a job.”
While these and other papers were being read
and debated in Canberra, an official of the Miners’
Federation was telling a meeting in Cessnock that,
although the Coal Board had urged miners to
produce more coal and had assured them that no
one would be dismissed for that reason, miners
had now “dug themselves out of a job.”
His statement doubtless sounded bitterly true
to the miners who had just lost their jobs, and to
their families. Also to their colleagues in other
Cessnock pits who were wondering where the axe
would fall next. It would, indeed, sound convinc-
ing enough to anyone prepared to accept the union
leader's interpretation of cause and effect. The
facts, however, don’t support the argument that
overproduction is responsible for the Cessnock men
losing their jobs. Coal-production in New South
Wales has increased since the establishment of the
Coal Board, largely due to increased mechanisa-
tion of the mines. Production per manshift
throughout the industry has increased, but it hasn’t
increased uniformly on all fields. In the Cessnock
area it hasn’t increased at all; it has fallen. This
is no reflection upon the miners of that district; it
is due to ageing pits becoming more difficult to
work —so much more difficult that it is no longer
an economic proposition to keep them open.
Hence the dismissals.
This is a situation which was foreseen by the
Coal Board at least four years ago, and has been
the subject of warnings in its annual reports. Not
increased production but increased competition
from other fuels —coal from rival fields in other
States; brown-coal in Victoria and South Australia;
diesel-fuel and residual oils; hydroelectric power—
is the main headache of the N.S.W. coal-industry,
which, for all that, is selling more coal today than
..ever before. These competing fuels were helped
to their present position by underproduction and
high costs on the N.S.W. fields.
The summer school did not concern itself
with the productivity of coalmining or of any
specific industry. It discussed productivity on a
national basis. All speakers were in general agree-
ment that improved living standards could come
only from higher productivity. Most also agreed
that the chief factors involved were the rate of
investment, efficiency of management, good
industrial relations and intelligent and progressive
Government policy.
Professor Clark Kerr posed the question,
“How’s your productivity-index going?” and
answered himself in part by saying that America’s
was moving ahead at the rate of two or three per
cent, a year and Canada’s at three per cent That
of Russia was advancing “two or three times as
fast as the United States or Canada.” Australia’s
apparent rate was only about one per cent.
Sir Harold Hartley, a British scientist, stressed
the importance of finding money for research: —
In Britain in 1900 the total expenditure on
research probably did not exceed £1 million; today
it approaches £3OO million. In the . United
States in 1925 the expenditure was about 100
million dollars, which increased to 350 million
dollars in 1940. In 1955 it was 4000 million
dollars, representing over 1.25 per cent, of the
national product.
To reach a figure comparable with America’s
research expenditure Australia would need to spend
£65 million a year.
Trade-unionist Charles Geddes, industrialist
J. M. Dixon (C.S.R. Co.) and Professor Clark Kerr
were at one in their insistence on the need for a
higher rate of capital investment. Said Geddes:—
In a world of growing industrialisation we
cannot afford, in terms of employment and living
standards, to fall l»ehind in competitive efficiency.
More and better machines, more horsepower and
electric jMiwer help to take the grind and grunt
out of work. They can make life easier all
round, even if they have their problems
Nothing prejudices future progress more, trade-
unionists believe, than low rates of investment.
It is the rate of expenditure on capital equipment
and its accumulation over 50-60 years which has
given U.S.A. her industrial eminence.
Dixon stressed the necessity for management-
labor co-operation and also the desirability of
Government support “by easing the fiscal brakes
and hindrances, and by trying to help the develop-
ment of productivity-consciousness.” To this end
he thought an overhaul of the taxation-system was
essential. ♦
Clark Kerr said that investment and the growth
of output went hand-in-hand. Investment raised
industrial problems; it meant changing jobs and
methods, which could be a source of difficulty in
workshop or factory.
However, the progress in the standard of
living which can result from a high level of
investment creates an atmosphere favorable to
change and an acceptance, sometimes reluctant, of
it. A little change can be a very painful thing;
the cure may be faster change and thus a climate
more favorable to progress and to its costs.
This problem of the difficulties raised by
change is the one that the N. S. Wales coal-industry
is facing, and it is necessary to get it into proper
perspective. The industry now employs fewer men
than it did five years ago, but the total is still 2000
above the number engaged in winning coal when
the Coal Board began operations in 1947. But if
coal is regarded as being merely one type of fuel
and the figures for the whole fuel-production
industry are studied it will be found that employ-
ment in that field has increased considerably.
Work must be found for the displaced Cess-
nock miners, either in other mines or in another
industry. But it is not only ridiculous but
economically dangerous to use their plight as
an argument against greater productivity. They
are temporary victims of change, and it would be
just as logical to argue that the cessation in produc-
tion of slate-pencils is proof that illiteracy is on the
increase or that the fact that no hansom-cabs were
produced in Australia last year proves that road-
transport is doomed.


“HAIL, COLUMBIA!”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Tom and Joe
Two things must be conceded to John
Joseph Cahill —his agility in walking the
tightrope above the stormy torrent of
A.L.P. faction-squabbles, and his ability
to flourish on abuse.
No one has yet tried him with sticks
and stones, but it is certain that names
don’t hurt Joe. Two years ago, when Dr.
Evatt first threw his Santamaria
boomerang into the party’s domestic
politics and saw it wreck the Cain Gov-
ernment in Victoria, there were many
who thought Cahill would be the next
victim of the slang-whanging contests.
The Federal executive, backing Evatt,
pointed the bone at the N. S. Wales
executive, a predominantly Grouper
body, alleging it was under the thumb of
“The Movement.” The allegations in-
cluded Cahill, at least by implication, as
he had been working in closest collabora-
tion with the executive and had intro-
duced important legislation, such as com-
pulsory-unionism, at its behest.
While the fight between Federal and
State executives was raging, Cahill
managed to keep a foot in each camp.
He acquiesced in the dumping of the old
executive and dutifully accepted the com-
promise body set-up in its place. His
former campaign-organiser was the chief
victim of the little purge.
One of the most active urgerS of drastic
action at that time was Tom Dougherty
of the A.W.U. A fortnight ago, at the
A.W.U. convention, he was active
again ; his tongue was lashing out in all
directions —at Albert Monk ; at the new
State executive which he had helped to
establish ; at the Cahill Government and
the N.S.W. Parliamentary Labor party.
Santamaria was still in the woodpile, but
he wasn’t the only sinister influence there.
Labor leaders had seemingly been lured
away from the path of working-class
ideals by capitalist blandishments, if not
worse, and the only real friend of the
worker was Tom Dougherty. Cahill’s
followers in the N.S.W. Parliament were
“a bunch of go-getters, legal experts,
retired or not-retired publicans, cranks
and professors.”
Cahill’s reaction to this was very mild.
He suggested that Tom had been mis-
reported—a suggestion Dougherty was
glad to accept later, though not in
relation to the statement quoted above.
Then Joe, accepting an invitation to
address the A.W.U. convention, tqld
delegates he was amazed at Tom’s accu-
sations. His Parliamentary colleagues
were “men of honor” ; they came from
factories and workshops, they knew what
the struggle for existence meant and they
“devoted their lives to the uplifting of
the masses.” Not one publican had
entered Parliament in the past 10 years.
Without saying what measuring-sticks he
was using, he claimed that “the prestige
of the Labor movement and the Labor
Government never stood higher than at
present.”
To all this Tom replied that he had
nothing but admiration for Joe’s ability,
integrity and restraint. He admired many
things about the Premier, but, above all,
his courage and leadership. In his
opinion “the Labor party need have no
fear in N. S. Wales while Joe Cahill is at
the head of it.” •
This apparently means that no matter
how many “go-getters, legal experts, re-
tired or not-retired publicans, cranks
and professors” there are on the Govern-
ment side of the N. S. Wales Parliament,
all will be well so long as Joe is there to
walk the tightrope and cop the abuse.
Israelis v. U.N.
The United Nations, after a nine-hour
debate, has for the sixth time ordered
Israel to withdraw out of Egypt. And
so far, for the sixth time, Israel —popu-
lation less than that of Sydney—has
defied the world authority.
Even the offers of Mr. Hammarskjoeld
to police the armistice-line between
Egypt and Israel, the attempts to get
reaffirmation by Egypt and Israel of the
1949 armistice agreement which Egypt
has consistently and deliberately broken
both in spirit and in act, and the implied
threat of sanctions, have not moved the
Israelis. They have had enough, appar-
ently, both of the U.N. and the Egyptians,
and they have been, up to date, showing
a firm front even under threat
of sanctions and the mutter of Mr. Lodge
of the U.S.A. that he “cannot predict the
consequences if Israel fails to comply
with the will of the Assembly.”
Ihe Assembly itself is in a pretty bad
fix, or would be if consistency were its
watchword. It arranged and policed the
armistice agreement of 1949 under the
s£me Canadian ’ commander, General
Burns, who now commands the American-
helmeted United Nations Emergency
Force. But Egypt thumbed its nose at
everybody, broke agreements with every-
body, yelled through its radio and press
daily that there could be no peace in the
Middle East until Israel was destroyed.
Egyptian commando-raids harassed the
Israeli borderlands. The U.N. could
not stop them. Egypt denied the use of
the Suez Canal and the Akaba Gulf
route to Israel trade and shipping under
the blatant pretext that, despite the armis-
tice agreement, it was still at war with
Israel.
On first appearances the attitude
of the Israelis is stubborn and stupid.
On second view, however, it is not so
stupid. Egypt seems to have been U.N.’s
darling. No U.N. move has been made
without Egypt’s permission in the area of
the canal which Nasser seized illegally and
violently in defiance of international
law. No move has been made to
dragoon Egypt into obedience to
United Nations’ orders, though it has
been in deliberate defiance of the Security
Council’s resolutions since 1951. There
has been no retraction of Egypt’s daily
expressed determination that Israel must
be destroyed and its r'oots torn out of'
Palestine soil.
There is nothing to assure the Israelis
that even if U.N. agrees to line-up an
emergency- force to guard the Israel
frontiers or separate Israel from Egypt,
attack will not be renewed across the
borders of Jordan or Syria through per-
mitted Egyptian infiltration or aid.
There is nothing, indeed, to assure that
the Hammarskjoeld scheme is in the least
practical.
Architecture and Poetry
It be surprising if the week’s delay
in announcing the Sydney Opera House
prizewinner was devoted to finding a
way, in the advertising world’s phrase, of
selling it to the public: h£nce the roof
like “sails” on the Harbdr~and a real
bargain-sail it has been.
The only more inane piece of “poetry”
about Sydney architecture has been the
reference to the lights across “the
Bridge” as a diamond necklace with a
ruby vanished before
Miss Auchterlonie’s mordant metaphor,
the coathanger. v
There are, of course, structural
qualities in the roof of half-cube units,
but less related to sails than to the New
Guinea natives’ haus-tamboram, or holy
house. The design for the interior would
seem to be a brilliant and worth-while
way of getting two auditoriums under
one roof on that site and making entry
and exit easy.
The strength and cheapness of the
novel roof could be its best recommenda-
tion ; the effect of its novelty only time
can assess.
In considering the “poetry” attributed
to buildings, it is worth while to wonder
whether the Seidlers of last century might
have considered the Queen Victoria
Buildings the last word in Byzantine
“poetry,” a triumph for an eclectic style
and a world-view of architecture. The
enthusiasms of one decade are often the
jokes of the next; and architecture lasts
a long time.
Full Steam Ahead
Sir lan Clunies Ross, chairman of
C.5.1.R.0., who is one of those rare men,
an eminent scientist who can express him-
self lucidly enough for the understanding
of the average citizen, is the latest of a
number of leading Melburnians to predict
great national development in the next
few years.
Among the others have been a numbetf
of noted economists, the Prime Minister,
W. S. Robinson and Lord Baillieu, repre-
senting between them industry,
metallurgy, politics and science.
Clunies Ross’s predictions were
detailed. He forecast steel production of
six million tons a year within 10 years
(compared with three million this year),
expansion of copper exports worth £25
to £3O million a year, and a population
of 12 to 14 million.
Three years ago he forecast similar
developments when steel-production was.
two million tons yearly, and since then
meat-production has increased by a fifth
(as has wool), 10 times as much copper has
been discovered, a great bauxite field has
been found near Cape York, rice is
growing in the N.T., and the great migra-
tion programme has been sustained.
The basis of the scientist’s predictions
is, of course, the blending in recent years
of science, technology, and skilled labor,
and the rapid discoveries in recent years
of the uses, and new uses, of the nation’s
geological resources, which, of course, is
the life-work of the C.5.1.R.0. staffs.
They are naturally cockahoop about
the bauxite-find ; the use for uranium ore,
which, 15 years ago when atomic energy
was not considered # in Australia, was
regarded as useless, and the new uses of
minerals in Australian beach sands; and
they are convinced, like their leader, that
the nation is on the brink of new
geological finds.
Two of the more recent discoveries by
C.5.1.R.0. officers are the isolation of
zirconium and the production of hexa-
decanol. The zirconium process, found
by Ivan Newnham, a member of the
Industrial Chemistry Division who is now
in the U.S., separates it from hafnium.
Zirconium is essential in some atomic
reactors, and the process has been sold to
the U.S. National Distillers Corp. for
250,000 dollars.
Hexadecanol is an insoluble chemical
which spreads over the surface of water
and reduces evaporation in reservoirs and
dams by as much as 30 per cent. The cost
of hexadecanpl, aside from labor, will be
about £9 an acre. It is the discovery of
William Mansfield, and undoubtedly will
be a boon, as Clunies Ross says, in a
great, thirsty land.
Colombo Plan Assessment
[From “Mugg'a Way”!
Australia, from the beginning of the
Colombo Plan until last June, has been up
for as much as £32.2 million for economic
development and technical assistance
under the plan, although actual expen-
diture has been only £l7 million.
Of this latter sum the largest recipients
have been Pakistan, £6,393,000; India,
£5,569,000; and Ceylon, £2,402,000.
More than half the contribution has been
in agriculture and power.
The latest annual report isn't wholly
reassuring, and portions of it suggest that
some aspects of the plan call for early
revision, in spite of the cheery summary
that “however great may be the difficul-
ties ahead, they will be overcome.” For
example, agricultural production, on
Balance, showed little improvement over
the previous year. This was partly
attributable to an unfavorable season and
partly to falling prices for some commo-
dities. The increase in industrial output
reflected the present Asian trend.
The equivalent of some $975 million of
capital-aid in the form of inter-Govern-
mental grants and loans appeared to have
been made available by donor-members
outside south and south-east Asia in
1955-56. In addition, the International
Bank made loans totalling $125 million
to recipient members during the year.
Over the period of the plan to mid-1956,
the external aid from donor countries has
amounted to about $2370 million, apart
from International Bank loans totalling
$356 million.
The report admits that, in spite of con-
siderable economic growth, the problem
remaihs of developing sufficient oppor-
tunities for productively employing the
“ever-increasing human resources of the
area.” It adds, fin the kind of jargon
peculiar to economic reports, that “the
task ahead will require the mobilisation
of additional energies in both the public
and the private sectors.”
The area v is one with great natural
resources, and with almost unlimited but
largely illiterate and untrained man-
power. The plan is having some effects,
and will continue to be of help. The
question is whether the over-all guidance
is on the right lines and is using the
available aid to the best advantage of all
concerned —givers as well as receivers.
Victorian Reforms
[From “Collins Street”!
The wind in Spring-street' is
blowing against the two-licence
system for hotels (under which Premier
Bolte hoped to achieve some' reforms in
Victorian drinking habits, despite the
nonchalance with which the liquor
interests threw away last year’s referen-
dum), and also against off-course tote-
betting agencies
Some prominent Melbourne wowsers
had agreed in a whisper to raise no
opposition to Bolte’s scheme of licensing
non-residential hotels paying a 7 p.c.
liquor-licence fee and residential hotels
paying 5 p.c. Both classes of business
now pay 6 p.c., a substantial advantage
for the beer-house.
In addition to the lesser tax, Bolte
would have had to make some conces-
sions to the residential hotels in the sales
of liquor, and the hours of its disposal,
to compensate for other services it would
provide for the community.
Knowledgeable racing-men generally
approved the Bolte-Rylah plan, based on
that operating in New Zealand, for
harnessing off-course betting for the
benefit of charitable institutions and the
racing - clubs through tote-agencies.
Some would have preferred off-course
licensed bookmakers, but even these
would have accepted the tote-agencies
rather than the present conditions under
which the s.-£>. bookmaker operates
simply for himself.
Bolte’s problem is that his Govern-
ment must face an election next year, and
the success of these reforms couldn’t be
judged under a year.
Neither Cain nor Hyland would scruple
to use wowser cries and tactics in
uncertain Liberal seats if these reforms
were in their teething stages during the
election.
It would be more in character with the
courage Bolte has shown since he took
over in Spring-street if he did go calmly
ahead; but remembering the thin,
temperamental balance-of-power voters
in Victorian State elections, his political
prudence if he postpones both must be
respected.
PRESIDENT Eisenhower has
approved the Dulles policies from
“top to bottom,” and acclaimed Dulles
“the greatest Secretary of State he has
ever known,” possessed of “a wisdom,
experience and knowledge that he [the
President] had never seen possessed by
any other man in the world.” It sounds
almost as magnificent as the late J. B.
Chifley’s eulogy of Nehru.
It is becoming clear from the exposi-
tions of the Ajnerican press that Ibn
Saud, King of Saudi Arabia, that pros-
pective “solid, reliable ally,” has been for
some time the keystone of U.S. Middle
Eastern policy, and. that the reactions,
so sharp and hostile to the British move
on Suez, were due to the fact that, if it
had succeeded, a lot of silently maturing
U.S.*plans in Arabia would have fallen
to the ground with a bang.
Except in the U.S. definition, nobody
would be inclined to describe either King
Saud or his country or his family and
associates, including his harem of 90, as
“solid” or “reliable.”
The secret of Saudi Arabia’s attraction,
and of the attraction of the Middle East
for the U.S.A., has been its oil, of which
the Americans have been vigorously but
quietly acquiring control, using their
money and their guile to push the British
out over the last few years. An American
company has acquired 100 per cent, con-
cessions and exploration-rights over
Saudi Arabia and in Turkey and parts of
Syria, and substantial rights in Irak,
which have been gradually swelling ; also
in Yemen and along parts of the Arabian
sea-coast.
Production under American control
VIRTUE TRIUMPHANT
[By “Ek Dum"]
has reached something like 700 million
barrels a year, against 350 million pro-
duced by the British companies, 100
million by the French, and about half that
quantity by Dutch-Shell. No American
monopoly could look with equanimity on
a position in which somebody else had a
share of the spoils.
For years the policy of the United
States has been : quietly directed to
pushing-out rivals. “Control the world's
oil —control the world,” is the axiom
on which they work.
So every time an opportunity has
offered for intervention Mr. Dulles has
put on his halo and in the name of
humanity has helped his compatriots to
squeeze in a little more and push out the
others a little more. Each intrusion has
been marked by shocked talk about
British and French colonialism and the
assurance about how much Washington
loathes the control of Asian countries by
brutal Europeans bent upon crushing
profits out of them.
As one of President Eisenhower’s main
press-supporters, whose syndicate and air-
mail editions are the main propaganda-
weapons of-the United States abroad,
explains, Washington and the US.
Government don’t like the way the British
deal in local politics in the oil kingdoms.
The Americans don’t “have advisers in
palace-yards as the British did in Jordan.
They do not, as the management of the
Anglo-Jranian company did in Persia,”
issue “authoritative suggestions” to local
officials. They adopt “a scrupulous
hands-off attitude which does not imply
a lack of concern,” but which manifests
(Continued on next page)


itself in most curious ways for a country
which is shocked at the thought of
colonialism.
Saudi Arabia is fanatically subjected
. to medieval Mohammedan government.
The Jews are banned. One of the main
features of foreign policy is an unrelent-
ing determination to destroy Saud’s
fellow-member of the United Nations,
Israel. No communication is permitted
with Israel by mail or otherwise.
The oil combination of Aramco,
entirely a U.S. corporation, is, of course,
as the U.S. press is busy explaining,
entirely at the mercy of the good old
leader of this curious country. It and
the United States have no hold whatever
over him. Indeed, it is represented that
Saud’s father, when he let Aramco have
its concession, announced confidently
that “Americans get oil out of the ground
but they stay out of politics.” Oh, yeah!
As a reward for its virtue the American
interests seem likely to get control of the
whole of the oil region, which holds
well over two-thirds of the world’s oil
reserves.
Now it is about to join the Baghdad
Pact, the U.S. and its companies will
undoubtedly acquire more solid allies in
Irak, Persia and so forth and become
even more scandalised at British wicked-
ness in that hitherto-friendly-to-the-
British realm.
Following Nasser’s expropriation of
the Suez Canal, Saudi that “free”
country which is in fact absolutely in
dollar bondage to American interests,
at once gave Nasser 25 million dollars
in exchange for Egyptian pounds to tide
him over his financial difficulties. U.S.
statements and encouragement undoubt-
edly led in great part to the failure of the
Menzies mission. When Nasser called
for a general strike of Arab workers to
protest against the canal conference,
Saud, however, saw to it that American
employees were excluded. And by a
curio~us coincidence there was a silent and
unadvertised visit by a former Secretary
to the U.S. Navy to Saudi Arabia.
When the British-French attack on
Suez came, Saud promptly shut off the
British pipeline to Bahrein, interdicted
the sale of Saudi oil (U.S. oil) to the
British and French, allowed Nasser to use
the U.S.-built and -managed airfields to
park his Russian-provided aircraft in
safety on a “neutral” soil, and prevailed
on the Arabs not to blow-up the Aramco
oil-line, while the Iraki oil-lines were
put out of use by the Syrians.
Now it looks as if Nasser is being
dropped. Saud, with a retinue of 65,
including a Keeper pf the Royal Jewels,
has been carried to America by U.S.S.
Constitution, a warship of his “moral
equals” in Washington. The American
press has been contemporaneously
announcing that though Britain “had
seemed to be running the whole show” in
the Middle East, in economic fact the
region has in recent years been dominated
by U.S. companies.
There has been some embarrassment,
because the Mayor of New York, a city
which holds more Jews than Israel, has
refused to honor an enlightened ruler
who speaks of the President as “my friend
Eisenhower” but who in his enlightened
democracy expels any U.S. worker who is
known to have received a letter with an
Israel post-mark.
Sections of the press supporting the
Administration in the U.S.A. are now
predicting that Nasser will soon be left
out on a limb by the U.S. and her
Arabian friends of the oil region. The
nations of Europe will also be left out
on a limb through the closing of the
Suez Canal.
That the United States has an uncanny
sort of prescience that the European
countries will not be able to use the
canal for a long time is shown by the
sudden record boom in tanker-building
in America.
POLITICAL POINTS
Talkie of the week: The King and
E/'-senhower.
• •
Speaking of his Economic Advisory
Committee Menzies says, “The more the
cards are put on the table the better it
will be.” Doesn’t that depend on what
game they’re playing?
• * •
The four British students who got
themselves into a mess in Hungary should
consider themselves fortunate to escape
with a whole skin. If you take on the
Scarlet Pimpernel business you have to
accept the risks that go with it.
• •
f '
Decimal coinage is to be revived as
an issue at a meeting in Melbourne to-
night (Feb. 6) at which an address on
the subject will be given by a New
Zealander, H. G. R. Mason, Q.C., whose
private .member’s bills have been before
the N.Z. Parliament on several occasions.
The meeting will be held in the rooms
of the t Victorian Employers’ Federation,
which has been active in the matter, with
a Liberal M.H.R., P. E. Joske, as chair-
man, and the secretary of the Trades Hall
council, J. V. Stout, as one of the
speakers.
• •
Even the London Left-wing newspapers
which for years past have regarded Nehru
as something halfway between a patron-
saint and a favorite son are condemning
him for grabbing Kashmir. Typical of
their reaction is the comment of the
“Daily Herald,” British Labor’s official
organ: “Mr. Nehru was wrong to go
ahead with formal annexation. He can-
not have it both ways.” Having it both
ways is precisely what the Indian Prime
Minister is trying to do. One way for
Hyderabad and J unagadh ; another way
for Kashmir. One way for U.N.’s
decision on Suez; another way for
U.N.’s decision on Kashmir.
• •
Calwell is running a one-man campaign
to persuade Menzies to “do an Eden over
Suez.” The P.M. isn’t having any. Last
week he reminded reporters that in 1949
Calwell that so long as R. G.
Menzies was leader of the Liberal party
Labor would remain in office. Arthur
isn’t much chop as a prophet, but he’s the
tops in optimism. Ever since the defeat
of the Chifley Government he has been
predicting Labor’s early return to power.
If he keeps it up long enough he simply
must be right some day.
'• •
Newspaper headline: “British Stand
on Atom.” That, presumably, is the
modern equivalent of sitting on a powder-
keg.
• •
British Defence Minister Duncan
Sandys was “fully satisfied with the
fruitfulness of his talks, on global plan-
ning of defence.” But. all they have
done is to break the ice—President
Eisenhow'er even condescended to see the
visitor and establish first basic
principles for future discussions. The
real test will come in the practical talks
when Mr. Macmillan’s assurances that
the U.K. does “not intend to become a
U.S. satellite,” but only a full partner, in
tests. Australia should insist on full
share in the discussions to assure that it
won’t be anybody’s satellite either. A
visit from Mr. Sandys would be welcome
and salutary.
• •
Arrangements are nearly completed
for the talks with bankers (on banking
legislation and perhaps on the special
funds) and with economists and others
which the Government plans to hold
before it meets the private members of
the Government parties in Canberra on
February 26, 27 and 21k There is some
curiosity in Canberra on the possible
views of the bankers on import-licensing
(with some their clients suffering and
others reaping rich rewards from the
system) and on the extension of hire-
purchase (id which some of the banks
have their own direct interest).
/ • •
! United Kingdom opinion is becoming
Perturbed at the increased number ot
Britons desirous of migrating to the
Dominions. London “Times” comments
that to whatever extent this is sympto-
matic of wide dissatisfaction with oppor-
tunities offered in Britain it must be
taken very much to heart. However, it
takes the view that it would be unwise
to place any restrictions “on the freedom
of citizens to organise their own lives.”
Quite right! In the matter of migrants,
while Britain’s loss is our gain, the U.K.
authorities shouldn’t overlook the fact
that a stronger Australia (or Canada, or
New Zealand) means a stronger Com-
monwealth.
The outflow of British migrants to
Commonwealth countries is largely offset
by the inflow from Europe. This has
always been going on, but, due to the big
of refugees before, during and
after the war, the net gain from migration
in the inter-censal period 1931-51 was
about 500,000.
• •
Bolte is to have another crack at the
foundations of tax-reimbursement and
allocation of loan-funds. He claims that
undipr the present system Victoria gets
the thin end of the stick. This is one of
the few points on which Bolte and Oppo-
sition-leader Cain find themselves in
complete agreement.
• •
Evatt is threatening to attack on
the question of overseas shipping freights
next session. He claims there is Consti-
tutional authority for the establishment of
an indipendent tribunal, which could lay
down the conditions under which
SINGED—AND SILENT
“foreign” shipping could enter Australian
ports —one of the conditions, presum-
ably, being freight rates. He may be
asked, of course, how many ships would
visit Australia under the threat of such
conditions.
• •
Of course, if the Victorian Govern-
ment wins its appeal to the Privy
Council over uniform taxation, the basis
of tax-reimbursement won’t matter much,
as the whole system will go into the
melting-pot.
•• / ■
President Eisenhower has described
Foster Dulles as “the greatest Secretary
of State I have ever known” and a man
with “wisdom, experience and know-
ledge that I have never seen possessed by
any other man in the world.” At least
one other American is of the same
opinion.
• •
Production of aluminium from bauxite
is usually based on hydroelectric power
rather than on coal. Thiskis the pattern
in America, find it was fallowed when
Bell Bay in Tasmania was chosen for
the site of the first Australian aluminium
plant. Now there’s a move in America
towards the use of coal. “The Coal-
miner” quotes a paper read at the annual
meeting of Bituminous Coal Research,
Inc., in America, showing that in the past
decade the aluminium industry has turned
first to natural gas and now to coal. The
reason given is that recent research in
the utilisation of coal has reduced the
cost of production in coal-fuelled power-
stations sufficiently to give them the edge
on hydroelectric plants. The information
should be welcomed by North Queens-
land coalfields in view of the discovery
of vast deposits of bauxite on Cape
York Peninsula.
• •
The British Labor party has approved
the continuation by Britain of tests of
H-bombs, long-range weapons and
guided missiles, pending international
agreement.
• •
Despite the high cost of prime cuts
Australians are still managing to eat their
quota of meat —more than their quota, in
fact. An analysis issued by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture places New
Zealanders at the top of the list as meat-
eaters, with 2161 b. each a year;
Australians are ranked second, with
2111 b. The figures were for 1955 ; before
that the Argentinians and Uruguayans
held the two top places.
1 I /
• •
“Myrlo”* It was recently reported
that a union fined a member for giving
evidence in conviction of a fellow-
unionist for theft from the N. S. Wales
State Abattoirs. Police comment was
that it “would make detection and con-
viction more difficult in future.” Are
trade-unions immune from contempt
charges? •
• •
“In the ACT”: When the Prime
Minister held his first press interview for
the year, after announcing the conference
on February 12 between himself and the
Treasurer and the representatives of
seven trading banks, and the appointment
of the economic advisory committee,
which is to hold its first meeting today,
he was questioned, on the likely discus-
sions at that gathering. He believed that
after the first shot the members of the
committee would seek detailed informa-
tion and then hold a three-day meeting
before having a % discussion with the
economic sub-committee of Cabinet, pro-
bably on February 21. There would be
no formal report, and no voting, but he
expected strong views to be expressed
strongly. He thought the committee
would discuss such topics as import
policy, taxation and interest rates.
• •
Westralians have welcomed the news
that Britain is establishing an air-staging
base in the Maidive islands. Perth,
which feels that too few Australians
realise we are an Indian Ocean as well
as a Pacific Ocean nation, has .been
uneasy since the ’loss of the British bases
in Ceylon and the flare-up in the Middle
East. There is strong agitation for either
Fremantle or Albany to be fitted as a
main fleet base, capable of servicing all
friendly 'warships and merchantmen
using the Indian Ocean.
• •
“In the ACT": It’s not surprising that
the universities have welcomed the
appointment of the live-man committee,
under Sir Keith Murray, to inquire into
the future of Australian universities, but
the Federal and State Governments will
probably be astonished to find what sums
will be estimated as necessary to make
the institutions up-to-date and capable
of coping with double their present
number of students by 1972. It is en-
couraging to find Sir Leslie Melville, vice-
chancellor of the Australian National
University at Canberra, predicting that
more eminent Australians will soon be
heading its schools. Already there is
Marcus Oliphant, and Sir Keith Hancock
is on his way. Melville says Canberra “is
fast becoming a serious seat of learning.”
Most persons associate the capital only
with politicians and civil servants.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITWIMBLES INKS"
AS a commodity celebrated for improv-
ing with age, whisky can learn a
lot from William Dargie’s winning
Archibald Prize canvas of Namatjira.
When the results were announced
“S. M. Herald,” through its art-critic,
thus described the portrait:
This year's entries are so poor that one
would not have awarded the prize, but those
half-hearted entries are certainly superior
to Mr. Dargie's effete portrait with its
indifferent draughtsmanship and its general „
air of having nothing to say.
Someone else up at Broadway must
taken a gander at the canvas and noted
an almost miraculous improvement, for a
bare 11 days later, in a house-ad. for her
periodical “Woman’s Day,” the old girl
offered
William Dargie’s magnificent portrait of
Albert Namatjira, reproduced in full color
. . . full-page size, suitable for framing.
Could it be that Bill Dargie used some
secret formula in his paints to effect this
spectacular metamorphosis?—“Bo.”
❖ ♦> *;♦
“Postie”: An olef-timer's note* on
inflation: “You know, thirty year ago
you could come to town with a quid and
make a day of it —now you come in with
a fiver and go home thirsty.”
* * *
“8.A.H.”: In one of our country
papers I read that:
“The historical nature of Anniversary Day
calls for more spectacular and colorful
celebrations,” says Gr. C. McCarron,
President of the W. jaomAS, u shrdlu
shrdlu Shires Association.
I picked up our other paper .of the same
date to find on the front page: /‘Desert
Heat Kills shrdlu cmfwyp.” If there are
gremlins about, the R.A.N. must have
loosed one among Sydney journalists, too
-for I find a reference to Gilbert and
Sullivan’s “H.M.A.S. Pinafore,” and to a
cocktail-party to celebrate the ninth anni-
versary of Ceylon’s independence, to be
held in the Starlight Room of H.M.A.S.
Australia I
♦*« *x«
“Tackline S.”: The Mint at Perth
exported £13,000 cash; half for Mel-
bourne, the remainder for Sydney. The
cargo-officer was present more as a
matter of form than to check dishonesty.
None was lost: a tin containing fifteen
quid in pennies must weigh pretty near a
hundredweight.
♦> *>
“Ailsey”: Many new branch-banks
are without a managerVquarters upstairs.
Whether this results from protests by
the Bank Officers’ Association that its
members are entitled to full domestic
privacy is not clear, but the latest
branches built in Sydney—two at Bever-
ley Hills and one at Kogarah—are
single-storied. A proposal by the ’Wales
to replace its demolished two-storied
premises at Chatswood with a squat
one-storied office so startled the aldermen
of Willoughby council that they referred
the plans back to the bank. Their sug-
gestion is that, in keeping with the im-
portance of the area, a two-storied build-
ing, probably with professional offices,
shquld go up.
❖ ❖ ❖
“G.M.”: A novel busman’s holiday
concerns a minister of religion. Seems
he stays at home for his annual leave
and attends as many services of worship
as possible in churches of all the other
denominations in his city.
❖ ❖ ❖
“M.C.M.”: Pointing the bone at
Queensland railways is becoming almost
as standard as mother-in-law jokes, but
many Bulletin readers must remember
with affection the much-abused but
much-used “Southport Snail” travelling
between Brisbane and Southport, and
how during the war-years they thirstily
awaited the approach of a station en
route named Beenleigh. A stop here sent
civilians and soldiers in a' flying dash to
the pub opposite the station. Everything
very convenient, no fence, and back door
opening into bar with foaming tankards
lined-up and waiting. Train-drivers good-
naturedly gave warning blasts on point
of departure. The beatific smiles and
muscular contortions of late thirst-
quenchers as they attempted to board the
moving train were something to
remember.
"Do you have the large economy-size?”
“Apemantus”: Knew an infection-
conscious bloke who thought all lucre
filthy (B. 12/12/’56). He would handle
only cash direct from his bank. Then
he rinsed the notes in antiseptic, pressing
them dry, and boiled the coins. “Germs”
worried him so much he couldn’t take
change from shopkeepers. Didn’t lose
by that, though ; he took care to have
always the right selection of sterilised
currency. Futile precautions, anyway ;
ever heard of a bank-teller getting a
poisoned hand from his job? And I don’t
mean itchy fingers.
, **♦ *x* *t»
“Ladimac”: Received some advice on
breaking into professional theatre:
“What you should do is go up to the pro-
ducers and demand an audition. Find
out when they are casting their next
production and go along to the reading—
and when you do go for an audition, let
yourself go. Don’t be afraid to over-act
—better that than to underdo it. Show
them your personality. And, if the first
producer doesn’t respond, don’t be down-
hearted—go to another, and another, and
Another until you’ve done the rounds. All
you need is push.” 1 was about to ask
how one acquired this when she added:
“But, of course, / could never do that.
I’m too self-conscious.”
❖ »> ♦>
“Handout”: A post-office was opened
at Davis, Australia’s new Antarctic
station, on January 14. The postmaster,
Robert Dingle, was immediately faced
with the task of stamping more than
50,000 letters, mostly for philatelists;
though it used to be a rule never to begin
letters with Ice.
■*s*
“Doynest”: Mrs. D. surveyed the
laden branches of our cljerry-plum tree
with pride, predicting that it would yield
at least twenty pots of home-made jam.
Maybe it did —but not to us, for during
the family’s absence some prowler com-
pletely stripped it. Mrs. D. was furious ;
so, for principle’s sake, was I. Secretly, I
feel as relieved as the tree. If there’s
anything 1 dislike on my bread, day after
day, it’s plurti-jam; and twenty pots
would have kept us going for months.
❖ ❖ *
“Schinfess”: Complaints about Aus-
tralian hospital-costs remind me of the
Hiroshima hospital in Japan in 1956. The
most expensive room, with lounge-suite,
cost 15s. a day, plus 4s. 6d. for food.
Relatives lived with the patient and did
most of the nursing. The hospital-kiosk
stocked everything from a teapot to a
broom. Medicines were bought at the
dispensary. Bed-linen was provided by
the patient. Mothers in the maternity-
section were confined to bed for 20 days,
and grandmothers were in full force
nursing the newborn and chatting in the
corridors. In this 350-bed hospital there
were 100 trained nurses and 60 student-
nurses. They averaged one day off a
week, but usually worked for 10 weeks
without, so they could have a yearly
holiday of 10 days. Student-nurses
received no wages. Medical students
spent two years studying German, as all
textbooks and medical terms were in
that language. Doctors doing their
residency were unpaid.
*> ❖ *
“Yellow Five”: Behind the scenes at
oUr school break-up the principal actress
was a twelve-year-old, powdered, painted,
curled and angelic in a gauzy crinoline,
twirling a sunshade —Alice Blue Gown
herself. Around her were ranged her
ballet, no less curled, rouged and
furbished, awaiting their cue to go on.
On stage a group of Angels held forth
with great fervor: “Holy Night, Silent
Night” . . . through to a grand finale, and
began to troop off the stage. Alice’s sun-
shade ceased to twirl. “Hurry up all
youse kids!” she hissed just loud enough
for the audience to hear. “Hurry up!
Here comes the bloody Angels!”
❖ ❖ ❖
“Uramao”:, Bishop A. K. Warren, of
Christchurch (N.Z.), speaking at the
centennial of his diocese, said he’d been
delving into history for the origin of one
of Winston Churchill’s most famous
phrases, and believed it was used by the
first superintendent of Canterbury (N.Z.),
James Edward Fitz Gerald, referring to
the Canterbury pioneers: “Never has so
much been done by so few in so short a
time.” However, the bishop thought
Fitz. was quoting Under-Secretary of
State for the Colonies Merivale, who
again was quoting Pitt.
❖ ♦;« *:♦
“J.L.S.”: Overheard Army privates in
Bologna greeting each other with a
cheery “ Ciao, bello!” Imagine the
reaction if one of their Australian
counterparts saluted another with “Hello,
beautiful! ”
*l* ♦♦♦ +>
“P.0.M.C.”: Nothing better illus-
trates the post-war depreciation of.
money than the new Queen’s-head Aus-
tralian stamp for Is. 7d. to issue on
March 13, covering combined postage-
and-registration charges on a standard
registered letter. Slightly more than a
decade ago the stamp covering the same
service cost s£d.
*** *** *♦*
Your Opera House will be a lark
And go so well with Luna Park.
VIENNA.
W. A. MOZART.
VERY FUNNY
“A man knocked down by a plane in the street at Tuggerah Lakes (N.S.W.)
said: 'lt gives you a funny feeling to see a plane tearing at you in the street.’ ”
It used to be amusing to be run down by a bus,
To be skittled by a trdmear was accounted humorous,
In the level-crossing smashes in the golden days long gone
The victims laughed their heads off if the engine left them on :
Such jests have grown too common ; they were rarities before ;
They once were simply killing; they have come to be a bore;
But you must admit it’s funny for pedestrians to meet
A plane in such a hurry that it knocks them off their feet.
Perhaps a more hilarious experience would have been
To encounter in the city an abusive submarine ;
Mingled laughter and amazement would light-up the victim’s face :
"What a joke — l’ve been torpedoed by a sub. in Martin-place!’’
Alas, there is a limit to all comedy and farce,
The world is full of might-have-beens that never come to pass,
And it’s best to be contented, since one should not dream in vain,
With such simple little jokes as being knocked down by a plane.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


TUST arrived from Unesco is a list
** of international set-ups for the
year, some of which should prove fascinat-
ing: a working-party on coconut, 11th
World’s Poultry Science Congress, 3rd
International Congress of Fermentation
Industries, 6th International Brewery
Congress and a Colloquium on Liquid
State (not, I think, related to the two
previous items). Australia should be in-
terested in the International Technical
Committee for the Prevention and Extinc-
tion of Fire, and the medical layman
will be breaking his neck to attend the
International Congress of Electro-
"It’s developing into a beautiful romance."
encephalography and Clini-
cal Neuro - physiology.—
“Maitri.”
♦t+ *X* ❖
“J.J.A.”: That hilarious
trip in the London bus re-
ported by “Alma” (B.
16/1/’57) was nothing to one
I experienced in Glasgow. I
was sweating it out as a trolley-
bus conductor at the time.
Last bus, and we got a flat,
and the last bus must run.
A relief-bus was sent out,
and we began the last run
ninety minutes late. We had
no passengers and the trip
was from Ridrie to Govan.
The bus averaged 65 m.p.h.
over the journey. If the boom
had jumped die wire we’d
have pulled down half-a-mile
of overhead and still be
running:
♦> .>
“Tabba”: Pubs around
Mackay (Q.) have those piles
of pennies mentioned by
“Jock” (B. 16/1/’57). The
Oral, Deaf and Dumb School
supplies the bars with special
stands; the pennies are
arranged artistically around a
tall cylindrical column rising from their
centres. All the stacks I’ve seen have
been rising steadily, but several publicans
inform me that the one. about odd
drinkers tossing a fiver to crash the lot
must be a leg-pull.
*' * ❖
“Boojum”: They came down to
Sydney and the eight-year-old wanted
to see a beach. “I wanter see sand,” he
said. Dad, thinking of the long, dry
spell: “We’ve just come away froth
20,000 acres of it.” The kid flashed back,
“Yes, but this is clean and it’s got water
with it.” Next day we drove down to
Bronte. Most of the crowd were
stretched out face-down on towels in
the afternoon sun. “Well, mate, how
many acres of sand can you see?” With
his lijis tight he growled, “Can’t see none
. . . only people.”
“Jerry”: The anticipated home-build-
ing boom, with nn easing of finance
about March, may affect hairdressers,
says Mr. E. Colin Davis, of the Timber
Association. He says that according to
the American Master Barbers’ Associa-
tion, the more homes built, the shorter
men’s haircuts become. Still, a lot of it’s
due to fall-out.
❖ <* ❖
m
“Quo Vadis”: “No,” the buxom Mel-
bourne lass told her boss in the inland
Queensland town, giving a week’s notice,
“I don’t mind the heat, flies, dust or mos-
quitoes.” The new Olympic swimming-
pool was lovely, her furnished flat posh,
male escorts plentiful, wage generous and
employer considerate. Still, these didn’t
compensate for the one great deficiency:
“No Bebop!”
“Q. Ree” (Fiji): On the question raised
here by “Dhas” as to why Chinese women
try to look like European women and vice
“Say when, madam!"
versa, I’ve often thought what a waste
their beautiful skin-color is on Island
part-European beauties. Many Australian
girls would give their eye-teeth for the
dark, honey-colored skin —as long as it
was acquired on the beach —while an
attractive part-European girl refers
disparagingly to her skin-color as “boot-
polish tan.”
/ ❖ ❖ ♦♦♦
“Ex-Ped.”: All my reference-books
confirm that John Knox wrote the “First
and Second Blasts of the Trumpet
Against the Monstrous Regiment of
Women” (B. 2 and 23/l/’57), and other
authorities, quoted in my dictionary, for
the use of “regiment” in the sense of
rule, government or regimen, are the
Charter of the City of London and Lyly’s
Euphues. It may also mean, not only the
military organisation that is strictly regi-
mented by the Colonel (or the R.S.M.?),
but also the governed realm or kingdom.
“Barley Corn”: Great hilarity at the
party when a convivial guest was
shackled to a beer-keg by the new young
cop and left. The warm atmosphere
chilled when prisoner and keg vanished.
He never told them how, in his manacled,
encumbered state, he managed to drive
the ute to his workshop, but they arrived
.just in time to save a perfectly good pair
of handcuffs from the power-grinder. A
certain copper has given up practical
joking.
❖, ❖ ♦
“Rara Avis”: “Ceg” (B. 9/l/’57) asks
if there are any Queen Victoria chocolate-
boxes still in existence. I have one in
first-class condition which belonged to
my late father. It was presented to him
in Africa ; it is minus the chpcolate,
having been ratted by yours truly as a
nipper—for which I received a tanning.
That would be just forty summers ago.
It now contains his three medals and
seven bars. The picture of Victoria is
embossed ; the dies were destroyed by
her command so as to limit the number
made. The wording is: “South Africa,
1900” ; and in the Queen’s handwriting,
“I wish you a happy New Year. Victoria
R. 1.”
❖ * *
“Ess”: At the Moomba Book Fair in
Melbourne this year, artists will make
caricatures of authors. At the last Fair,
a Leftist artist, infuriated at an author
who dared to speak critically of Pinkish
writers, tore his caricature of the author
in pieces and threw it at the speaker’s
feet. Authors should be free to give
written descriptions of the caricaturists.
❖ ♦♦♦
“Cash Count”: What would you do if
you won the lottery? Blue-jowled Joe
said: “I’ll tell you what I’d do. I’d shout
meself a new razor-blade every day.” "
*> ❖ • *>
“No. 2179”: A Roll of Honor at the
Royal Military College, Sandhurst,
records the names of 19,781 officers of the
British, Indian, Burma, Canadian, Aus-
tralian, New Zealand and South African
armies and of forces of colonies and pro-
tectorates killed in World War 11. The
roll, written in script, has taken four-and-
a-half years to complete. Photographic
prints of the pages will be made available
to regiments and relatives within the
Commonwealth on application to —The
Secretary, Chapel Council, The Royal
Military Academy, Sandhurst, Camberley,
Surrey, England. The application should
include the Corps or Regimental List
required, or, in the case of individual
officers, their full names and regiments.
❖ * *
“Henry W.”: The first stage of the
Kelly-Grimaldi Co.’s line-production
being completed, their publicity-depart-
ment has fallen down in not considering
the names of Bettina (for a daughter) or
Casino (“Big” or “Little”) for a son. The
emotion of all the world that loves a
lover might thus have been canalised
into that of all the world that loves a
gambler . . . Alas, their sense of propriety
have deserted them.
* ❖ ❖
“MiF.D.”: I agree with “8.A.H.” (B.
23 /1 / ’57) that announcers’ slips are
sometimes due to faulty copy and some-
times to having to get through a pile of
matter in a very short time; but what
about two references in news-bulletins
an hour apart to the “risk of afternoon
‘thunderstorms in the evening”? We
didn’t have either afternoon- or evening-
thunderstorms that day; maybe the
announcements confused the weather as
much as the listener.
❖ ❖ ❖ ,
“Bass”: To find out what non-smokers
i\se in place of tobacco (B. 16/1/’57)
“Hattie Hop” should come to Perth and
travel in a non-smoking compartment of
our suburban railways. In each she’ll find
passengers puffing at pipes and cigarettes
and filling the compartment with smoke
and pungent odors with the tacit
approval of guards, porters and inspec-
tors —the prohibitory notices refer only
to the smoking of tobacco.
“Suburbia” : y My spouse and I had a
bookish Christmas. He gave me the
Australian edition of The Decameron
with the Broadhurst illustrations, while
I handed him Jack Lang’s 7 Remember.
We have been plundering each other’s
gifts, and both books have left me with
a thirst for the answer to two questions:
In French and Italian copies of the
Boccaccio tales, do the publishers reserve
one tale to be translated into English?
And is Lang Right in claiming that
Speakers have no right to block ques-
' tions in Parliament on the ground that
the matter is sub judice ?
♦> " ♦> ♦>
“Ex-Ped.”: According to the A.B.C.
no less than seven ships recently ran
aground on a reef in the Fiji Group.
They were the “M ’-tew-er,’’ the
“M’-foo-er,” 1 the "Mat- you-er,” the
“Mat-yow-er,” the "Mah- too-er,” the
“A/a/i-tew-er” and the “Mah-tew-er,”
but the poor old Matua (Mah-
too-ah) never got a mention. Per-
haps she had decided to linger no longer,
and had slipped off to “Tonger.” A few
other names in the news that have recently
been traps for young announcers are,
“ Ak-z-bah “Ath -lone,’’ and Aleutian
(Al-e-00-she-’n). Hasn’t the A.B.C. any
Pronouncing Dictionary of Proper
Names?
THE CAVEMAN’S
COMPENSATION
“There is evidence that ancient man suffered,
as we do, from dental-caries, though in lesser
degree, and from premature wearing-down ol
his teeth. And it is probable that his tonsils
and appendix served more useful purposes than
those organs do today.” —Medical writer.
The caveman’s grinders weren’t allowed
to shirk
On Nature’s work.
No mush he ate, derived from cereal-
crop.
He masticated
Big brontosaurus-steaks. And they were
tough;
Tough as the stuff
We often have to buy in butcher’s
shop
At price inflated.
Nevertheless, those dice inside his jowls
Went into holes
Just as do yours and mine. Moreover,
he’d
No rum or whisky
With which to fill them or himself to
gain
Surcease from pain.
Stone-hammer surgery was his urgent
need,
Messy and risky.
He used his teeth so hard and often that
Nigh every tat
Was worn down to the socket long
before
His hair was greying ;
And, you’ll admit, chawing up leathery
steak
On gums would make
More for a gloomy view of meals,
than for
Full joy displaying.
His tonsils, though, were functional
wonders, strong,
Never going wrong.
Better employed than ours, whose only
use
Is tonsillitis.
What his appendix did that ours won’t do
We haven’t a clue. ,
Yet his was far too well-beha\>ed to
induce
A ppendicitis.
Yet he'd be rash who boldly might aver
These organs were
Serving no useful purpose now, for
while
This pair of banes stay
With humankind, the surgeon, with a
grin,
Will rake it in.
Why ! Those two pests his patients so
revile
Comprise his mainstay !
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the most dynamic Melburnians,
of whom his fellow-citizens hear little, is
John Francis Williams, who has brought
off a financial coup for the Melbourne
“Herald” by buying the assets of the
defunct “Argus” for their written-down
values. The acquisition of the plant also
has put competition out of court.
Since the death of his predecessor-in-
office, Sir Keith Murdoch, in 1952,
Williams has added the “Courier-Mail,”
formerly, in part, a Murdoch family-
property, and the “Telegraph” in Bris-
bane to the “Herald” empire, pioneered
TV in Melbourne, and just failed in a bid
to acquire the Sydney “Sun.” i
(In view of ensuing events, the former
directors of Associated Newspapers, Ltd.,
might now wish for a second chance at
linking-up with Williams, and, of course,
of retaining their jobs.)
John Williams, who has been a
journalist all his life, and a good one,
has a strong personal aversion to pub-
licity, is seldom mentioned in the news-
papers, except as the writer of occasional
articles, and gives himself one of the
briefest of all mentions in the “Herald”
publication, Who’s Who in Australia,
with a half-dozen perfunctory lines.
His earliest training was on The
Bulletin as a lad, but he moved to
Melbourne in 1924,' re-established the
“Barrier Miner” in 1933-36 and, after a
brief spell back on the “Herald” in
1936, took over the “Courier-Mail” in
1937. He remained there for nine years,
except for a few months as acting-director
of the Ministry of Information.
As the “Herald’s” managing-director,
he is a prodigious worker, with a passion
for honest reporting, and is ready to
box-on with vote-catching politicians at
election-times who claim, unjustly, they
haven’t had a fair go. He is also agin
humbug, social vanity, and vandals,
official and non-official, who destroy
natural beauty, but otherwise surveys
the prosperity of the Ming dynasty with
gumption and tranquillity.
He lives in a modest Victorian house
in East Melbourne, and his most
cherished possession, aside from his wife
(a painter) and son (a reporter, too), is
his A.J.A. gold honor-badge, for services
rendered.
• •
“D.”: There were simultaneous
memorial services at Toorak Presbyterian
Church and in his native city, Launces-
ton, for Ivan Holyman, who died in
Honolulu (B. 30/1/’57), and whose ashes
were flown to Tasmania. A memorial
service in every Australian capital would
have been appropriate for the man who
began Australian National Airways, and,
despite the loss of his brothel in Bass
Strait, pressed on, aerially linking the
nation. He was one of our few
merchant adventurers, of whom we
need so many.
• •
C. R. Carson, manager of Brisbane’s
4BH, started broadcasting as a vocalist,
back in the days when only experimental
stations were operating. He joined 4BC
as announcer in 1934 after a couple of
years as a freelance in that line, then
became studio-manager, switched to
merchandising, and in 1936 went to 4BH
as acting-manager. Vice-president, and
RADIO
former president, of Brisbane Repertory
(he’s done a lot of acting with this and
other theatres), he’s been State vice-
president of the Federation of Com-
mercial Broadcasting Stations, and has
been mixed up with politics, on the
organising side. He started and organised
the war-time “Smokes for Sick Soldiers”
programme, which began in August,
1940, and ran for 10 years, and from
which over £77,000 was spent on gaspers
for servicemen in hospitals.
• •
“Allan B.”: A link with ihe beginnings
of St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, was
broken with the passing of its first pre-
centor; the Rev. Canon George Sutton.
After training at St. Augustine’s College,
Canterbury (N.Z.), he landed in Victoria
in 1886, going to Ballarat for ordination,
and as precentor to St. Paul’s when it
first opened in 1891. Interested in
Trinity Grammar School and the
Sunday School Association, he served at
churches in Kew, Camberwell, Balwyn,
Hawthorn, Castlemaine and Balaclava.
Canon of St. Paul’s Cathedral from 1902
until his retirement in 1946, he was 93 at
the end.
• •
John Marshall first attracted notice
when he won four Australian freestyle
titles in Adelaide in 1947, at 16, and for
the next few years he dominated Aus-
tralian freestyle swimming. In . 1949,
then holding every Australian freestyle
title, he went to Yale University, and
while there (1950-54) broke, altogether,
171 freestyle records —28 of them world-
records ; at one time he held 19 world-
records. Most of them were made in the
early part of his stay; in 1952 his health
broke down for a time. He represented
Australia at the last three Olympic
Games —at Melbourne he swam in the
200-metre butterfly—,but did not win a
gold-medal". After the recent Victorian
championships, in which he won four
titles, he was the first man selected in
the Victorian team for this month's Aus-
tralian championships. Modest and
retiring, popular with other swimmers,
always ready to help and advise, Marshall
died last week after lying unconscious
for six days following a car-accident.
• •
Passed the century in Fremantle, Mrs.
Elizabeth Tonkin, who was born in
Perth on January 20, 1857, and went to
Fremantle when 12. She can remember
watching convicts building the Perth
Town Hall. Her husband, Foss Tonkin,
well-known Fremantle hotel-manager,
died in 1903. Fourteen grandchildren, 25
great-grandchildren, and 11 g.g.g.c.
attended the birthday-party.
• •
Calling it a day after 42 years in
the Commonwealth Public Service;
Joseph Huxley Honeysett, a tall,
capable bloke who was bom in
London, educated at Dulwich College,
and came to Tasmania when quite young.
On his mother’s side, he’s a grand-
nephew of Thomas Henry Huxley, and
cousin of Aldous and
Julian. Captured*at Bulle-
court while serving with
the 47th Bn. in T 917, he
made several attempts to
escape, was wounded
during a third effort, and
was in the Holzminden
p.-0.-w. camp during the
time of the famous tunnel-
escape. For services ren-
dered while a p.-0.-w.,
which cannot be disclosed
even now, he was pro-
moted to the rank of captain. He
'joined the C.P.S. after demobili-
sation, when Canberra was not
much more than a tent-town, and
was secretary of the welfare-association
which did much for the development of
the Federal capital. He joined the pro-
cession of Billy Hughes’s secretaries,
when Billy was still Prime Minister, then
settled down as secretary to every
Repatriation Minister since then,
e •
Lieut.-General Sir Frank Festing,
Commander-in-Chief of the British Far
East Land Forces, who flew in and out of
Sydney last week on a brisk schedule, was,
like many another outstanding British
general, born in Ireland —Dublin, 1902.
He comes from a military family, went to
Winchester and Sandhurst, had just
finished six months as instructor at
Camberley, with the local rank of
Lieutenant-Colonel, when War II began,
served in France and Norway, and
commanded the brigade that made the
assault-landing in Madagascar in 1942.
He received an immediate D.S.O. for his
handling of the campaign.
At the end of the year he was
promoted to major-general and went to
Burma to command the 36th Division ;
leading it, after a period of intensive
training, in the Arakan campaign of the
spring of 1944. In August that yeat l 9 e
division was flown from Ledo to Myit-
kyina to take-over from the Chmdits,
its job, to advance down the Myitkyina-
Mandalay railway, clearing out the
enemy. This was done, after months
of marching, sometimes in monsoon
conditions, the division linked-up with the
Chinese on the Burma Road, captured
Maymo and helped clear out Mandalay,
then advanced down the Irrawaddy to
Rangoon. .
Big (6ft. 4in. and built in proportion),
sandy, a wide reader, he has been
described as a “thoughtful general” ; also,
as “an intelligent disciplinarian never
cracked the whip when it wasn’t necesary,
nevfer failed to crack it when it was.”
Quiet, but capable of devastating speech.
Not popular, in the sense of cheers-and-
speeches, but had the absolute confidence
of his division. His pipe and ash-stick
were seen in all sorts of tough places ;
captured two Jap swords from their
officer-owners in combat, once led a
platoon in action. It was that sort of
campaign.
A superb handler .of infantry, an expert
at the new technique of air-supply, he
had another quality very necessary in
North Burma —tact; he was dealing with
Americans, Indians and British. An eye-
witness relates that when Festing reported
to Stilwell, “Vinegar Joe” looked up from
his desk and said “Take X.” Festing
said, “Very well, sir,” walked out, and
did.
• •
A tall, smiling bloke from Queensland,
recently encountered in Sydney, turned
out to be Cecil Graham Hughes, who
graduated in Ag. Sc. from Sydney Univer-
sity in 1934, and went north the same
year: now 43, senior pathologist of the
Bureau of Sugar Experiment Stations,
co-author of the standard Manual of
Canegrowing, former president of the
Queensland branch of the Australian
Institute of Agricultural Science,
and much else; in the flesh, though,
a pleasant chap with an admirable
SUGAR
tendency to reduce alarming knowledge
to ordinary conversation.
In southern parts few know much
about sugar or the streamlined research
and complex marketing set-up behind the
production of this big and important
crop. As a minor example, this writer
had never heard of Warrigal Road,
Eight-mile Plain, where the bureau
keeps 58 acres of cane alive with the
most beautiful diseases. It’s the only one
of its kind in the world, and is only 11
miles from Brisbane.
Apart from such jaunts as his cane-
collecting visit to the highlands of New
Guinea, and a more recent study-tour of
virus-disease centres overseas, Hughes’s
job keeps him well on the move; any-
where between Mossman (N.Q.) and the
N. vS. Wales border. In his spare time,
he grows pine-trees and spotted-gum on
30 acres at Brookfield, a rural spot nine
miles from Brisbane G.P.0., and is active
on the Brookfield Show Society and
Parents and Citizens’ Association.
Brookfield school, incidentally, ante-dates
the State Education Department: it was
built in 1870.
• •
On Sunday afternoons at the Sydney
seaside suburb of Manly a Church of
England clergyman has strummed a
banjo outside his church in Darley-road:
a novel and effective method of attracting
the attention of passers-by. The cleric is
Rev. Alan E. Begbie, who leaves Manly
to take-over St. Stephen’s, Willoughby, on
the austere North Shore, where ’he
succeeds Archdeacon R. B. Robinson.
Ordained in ’3l, Begbie kicked-off as a
diocesan missioner, has been rector at
Nowra, Lithgow and Manly, and was an
A.I.F. chaplain overseas. Continuing
that line of work part-time, he’s senior
C.-of-E. chaplain for N. S. Wales.
• •
Sketched by Woolcott some little time
back, when he left the post of captain’s
SHIPS
secretary of H.M.A.S. Melbourne to take
his first charge-job as “Pusser” in Warra-
munga, Jimmy Smith, Lieutenant (S), has
become pretty well known in the R.A.N.
since he joined as a Boy 2nd-class in
1922. Trained in Tingira when she tied-
up at Rose Bay, passed out as a Boy
Writer, and got his first seagoing draft
to H.M.A.S. Brisbane. Was instructor
to war-time pay sub-lieutenants at
Flinders, then became secretary to the
Naval Officer-in-Charge, New Guinea,
stationed at Madang. He has brought
off an unusual double: was in the Can-
berra’s commissioning party and, some
14 years later, was serving in that cruiser
when she was sunk (he carefully took
with him, intact, all pay-accounts of the
crew).
• •
“Collins Street”: Inspector Ernest Tye,
who # retired from the Melbourne Force
a few days ago, was the first-constable
who let Harry Stokes, a major Melbourne
crook; and his offsider, John Mulligan,
think they had bribed him and another
P.C. (now Detective-Sergeant Rex
Byrne) into turning a blind eye while
they robbed a bank at Ballarat. Tye and
Byrne “agreed” to accept as their share
£lO,OOO, a fortune in the depressed
’thirties, and no doubt would have
collected; Stokes had a reputation for
paying-off.
In those days not everyone at Russell-
street headquarters was entirely above
suspicion. After Tye and Byrne had
reported what was afoot to the C. 1.8.,
the most careful arrangements were made
for handling the arrests. Otherwise
Stokes’s friends inside headquarters might
have tipped him off.
Both policemen are deep-blue incor-
ruptibles. Tye, as Byrne will do, retires
honorably from the Force with a pension
worth three or four times what his share
of the £lO,OOO might have yielded.
• •
Into the Silence:
In London, at 68, James Albert Dimmitt,
Agent-General for Western Australia and tor
deputy-president of the W-A. Cegis a
Council. Founder and president of the vv
Blinded Welfare Association, founder and nr»
president of the Guide Dogs for me
Association, he had been president o
Royal Aero Club of W.A. and presr
Perth Rotary. .
In Sydney, at 87, Captain Charles Backer
'who until his retirement had been whai g
at Cairns (Q.) since the turn of the century.
In Melbourne, at 73, George Austin Mooney,
former Chief Commonwealth Concil -
Commissioner, and a most compe
successful arbitrator. He became Conciliation
Commissioner in 1941, Chief Commissionei
1947, and retired in 1954. ,
Brisbane, at 72, A H. Jgg
and managing-director ol the Diiecnwa „
of Highliefd Tea l-.y.. Ltd. He retired m 195 .
. In Canberra, at 74, while attenjlmß the Aus
tralian Citizenship Convention, George r
Simpson, chairman of the W.A Good TM
Council. He had been West ' t .
Service Commissioner from 1931 to i -> F and
president of the Y.M.C .A. n j g ’
prominent in Presbyterian Chuich ''
In Perth, at 71, Henry Harpeh
Westralia’s second Rhodes Scholar. B> jn (he
Oxford in 1908, he started sheep . jarge
Westralian Midlands, and developed a
property at Koorian, a few miles out
Gin. Tenth Light Horse, War I.


Knoe> , Jack. ; th's imp? was
SA//M& ONLy t-AST NIGHT (X MUST
eg abcot fifteen y£AR.s since
Ice net yoo anp spna . f
ion6BfZ than THAr, £RNI £. IT
ms IN '35 AT AuST/m&fL,
zeiAme>sf!* ? *
0
\
£>y J cn£, yook-e zight. Tme
-J , '/ //
Sups By Vo&sur it /
\\.r
Qooo pAy, /if? Cnsxc^
i'p UKB you To M££T A V£(ty
coo ■ ffUSno of mine: , At <z —
6R , -M'S. £(Z. r/
“SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE....”


ABORIGINALITIES
SURPRISED to note that the charac-
teristically Australian elastic-side boot
has made a glamorous appearance as “The
Australian bush-boot” in the columns of
the slick U.S. magazine “Esquire.” The
footwear is described as a “niust” for
relaxation, and high among its manifold
virtues is the fact that it is as “strong as
the right hook of an Australian kanga-
roo.” But old “larfin’-sides” transplanted
from dusty outback Aussie sheepyards to
the highball and rye-whisky atmosphere
of a posh Yankee country-club! It
doesn’t seem possible.—“O. K. Lee.”
“8.A.H.”: For swimmers in
the cool waters of the Cotter
and Murrumbidgee near Can-
berra this season, the official
danger-cry has been “Snake!”
Canberra’s 18 volunteer life-
savers who patrol the swim-
ming-spots have each been
issued with snakebite-outfits to
protect bathers against the fangs
of scores of brown and black
Joe Blakes. The reptiles, no
doubt famished from the long
rainless spell, have come down
from the surrounding moun-
tainous country, and although
nobody has been bitten yet,
several people have left the
water at great speed after being
lunged at by the intruders.
Popular feeling is that Joe
should stick to bush work—or
he may find a local ordinance
rushed through to regulate his
hours of bathing.
“Dicky”: It’s too often over-
looked in snakebite-treatment
that the most important thing
to do first after tying the liga-
ture is to wash the wound. Slap-
happy and immediate carving will* often
result in more poison entering the wound
than before, since Joe doesn’t always get
a good grip, and quite often a lot of
venom is sprayed rourid the' skin or
clothing; harmless if washed off, but
making the damage worse if taken into
the wound.
* * * *
“Mingari”: “Bo’s” astonishment at
Prime Minister Menzies wearing coat,
collar and tie when fishing
(B. 23/1/’57) pales beside
that of a judge of the
N.S.W. Arbitration Court
when hearing evidence by a
woman regarding the cost of
living. Detailing her annual
expenditure on clothes, the
lady Walton gave the cost of
clothes bought to wear when
fishing.* ’Sonah reeled per-
ceptibly before inquiring in
incredulous tones, “Do
people buy clothes to wear
when fishing?” He was
eventually persuaded that
old, tattered, stinking slacks
with the behind out were not
favored by real ladies.
* * *
“Cyda”: When I started
as a woodbutcher timber
was “seasoned.” Later it
was “kiln-dried.” Now I
notice it is “pre-shrunk,” and
I expect that soon they’ll
be fastening if with stitches and that
you’ll be able to drip-dry it.
“Bass”: Don’t attribute the present
bunny-population of the Nullarbor solely,
to the Plain’s freedom from myxomatosis
(B. 9/1/’57). A big share of the credit
goes to the cyclones which originate in
the Timor Sea and bring the rains to the
Kimberleys. The last few years have
seen several of these big blows roar across
W.A. from north to south and deluge
the desert-country; so the Nullarbor has
blossomed, if not like the rose, at least
well enough to support a lot of rabbits.
But these good seasons aren’t reliable;
I’ve seen the plain littered with the bones
of thirst-killed rabbits and other animals,
and no doubt I’ll see it again.
*'* * *
“Flight”: Many years ago outback
Queensland abos. told me that the cock-
emu takes the first chicks he sees from
the first hen he meets; he rears them,
kicks out the young bucks when they
begin to assert themselves, and leaves .his
young hens to their jobs as soon as they
have each laid enough eggs to go broody.
My observation of the big birds since
then has fully confirmed this. Cayley
doesn’t differentiate between the male
and the female in appearance; Leach
claims the hen is the smaller. If Leach
is right—and I think he is—l’ve never
seen any other than a hen-bird rise from
a nest of eggs when disturbed.
* * * *
“Motuku”: The frill-neck lizard may
shape-up to anything on legs, wings or
“ Razor-blades !”
wheels, putting up a horrific, and often
quite convincing, bluff, but if that bluff
is called by anything out of his own
weight-class he never stops to argue, but
goes flat-out for the nearest cover. I
have never seen one that would mix it
—as a bulldog-ant will—with an
opponent he had no hope of beating.
* * -i *
“Keima”: Seas covering Australia (B.
9/1/’57)? There was no Australia in
early geological times but lands with, to
the layman, strange-sounding names. In
the Archeozoic, the earliest era of all,
there was, in the south-west, Yilgamia,
covering most of today’s Western Aus-
tralia ; to its north, separated by sea, lay
“Leave him alone , Nobby. He's got curvature of the spine."
Stuartiana, covering the Kimberleys, most
of the N.T. and extending into western
Queensland. East again, separated also
by sea, was Willyama, stretching from
around Broken Hill far to the east and
south, while, in the extreme north-east,
Cape York Peninsula formed the land of
Carpentaria. Actually Carpentaria was
probably part of a larger land-mass, most
of which now lies under the Coral
Sea —the lost land of Tasmantis. To the
south of Australia, and outside its
bounds, lay the hypothetical continent of
Gondwanaland, which existed, it is be-
lieved, over part of the Southern Ocean
for many ages.
# * * *
“Quo Vadis”: Late spring in my
garden, and the aphides were sucking the
life-blood from beetroot, silver-beet and
lettuce. Every year it is the same. And
then a miracle! They recover, gain
strength and new green life. In place of
the aphides are hundreds of little orange-
black, 13-spotted ladybirds which, hurry-
ing on tiny feet like busy old women, had
had a feast of eggs and larvae. Incredibly,
I have greens in midsummer.
* * * *
“Mulloway”: The silver-coin poison-
test (B. 16/1/’57) is reported by toxi-
cologists to be no more reliable for fishes
than it is for mushrooms. There are
some poisonous fishes in our waters:
the toad-fish and porcupine-fish 1 are
deadly at all times; some tropical
fish, especially the beaked parrot-
fishes that grind down the branch-
ing corals to feed on their polyps, are
dangerous at certain seasons. Among
unconvicted suspects are the “China-
man,” or thread-finned sea-perch
(Lutianus metamorphus), and two of its
near relatives, the red sea-bass and the
purple sea-perch. Cases of alleged
poisoning by all three have been reported,
and the “Chinaman” has had such a bad
reputation that not many months ago a
large consignment was condemned by a
fisheries-inspector because of its identity.
Many fish, however, are unjustly termed
“poisonous” simply because someone ate
one when it was “going off.”
**- * *
“Spin”: The dispute about the best
method of assisting the natives in W.A.’s
desert-country east of the Warburton
Ranges has produced evidence of a sur-
prising lack of knowledge of aborigines
and their habits. Some Parliamentarians,
editors, and quite a lot of other well-
meaning people find it hard to believe that
any human being would prefer desert-
freedom to the comfortable anchor-
age of a suburban allotment. Suggestions
vary from clothing them (which is
absurd) to housing them (patently ridicu-
lous) and feeding them (almost impossible
without unfitting them for the arduous
life they evidently prefer). But for the
ultimate in obtuseness I’ll nominate the
Perth paper which pictured a gin and
invited sympathy by asking its readers to
“note the thin legs.”
* . * * *
A SYNOD of Maori ministers and
laity, which met during the Anglican
hui topu at Wairoa, decided that the
Bishop of Aotearoa, the Right Rev.
W. N. Panapa, should attend the Lambeth
Conference to be held in London in
1958.
It recalls an earlier visit by one of
the first Maori patrons of Christianity—
Hongi Hika, a chief of the Ngapuhi
tribe.
Born in 1777 at the Bay of Islands, he
visited Sydney in 1814 and stayed at the
home of the Rev. Samuel Marsden. Six
years later, with another Maori chief,
Waikato, and missionary Kendal, he
went to England and was received by
the King, from whom he sought more
missionaries.
On his return to N.Z., learning that
his son-in-law had fallen in battle at
Thames, Hongi gathered 1000 followers
and set out on a campaign of vengeance.
At the fortified village of Totara 500
were slain and 300 of them eaten. More
blood flowed at Tamaki River, and the
fugitive enemy was pursued as far as
Matakitaki, the Waipo River strong-
hold. Here 1400 were killed out of a
garrison of 4000.
Hongi returned to his home as a
conqueror, with crowds of slaves. While
women rushed' to welcome the warriors,
those with relations slain commenced
revenge on the captives.
Feuding went on until 1827, *when
Hongi Hika met his Waterloo at
Whangaroa against old foes, and was
shot. He recovered sufficiently to be
able to entertain friends by making the
air whistle through his bullet-holes. He
died 15 months later from effects of his
wounds, in his early fifties.
On his deathbed, decked-out in
muskets, Hongi exhorted all to protect
the missionaries courageously; he
bequeathed his coat-of-arms—presented
by King George —and the carved replica
of his facial tattoo-marks in wood. No
chief was more highly carved than Hongi
Hika.
Never christened or baptised, he saw
that his children went to the Mission
school.
H.W.
THE CAVE
“This" —we listen to the guide’s voice
squeak
within wet echoes of the hollow rock —
“is called the Wedding Cake. Look, you
can see
the likeness!" (We certainly cant)
“Over there"
(he points upwards through dank air
towards
a line of webbed and spindly stalactites)
“is that masterpiece, the lovely Bridal
Veil.
This" (a stalagmite) “is the Sleeping
Donkey ;
and this” (another) “the Spouting Whale.
“And now we enter the mystic Fairy Dell.
This” (stalagmite again) “we call Big
Ben :
you’ll understand quite well why we do so
when l strike it three times with my key.
You'll hear
bell-like chimes that echo in your shell-
like ear.”
He raps the rock that’s named from the
famous clock :
Klink-klunk-klonk. (Quickly, like that.)
The spongey sound
blunders around the cavern, thudding
in a cracked peal against pellucid drops
poised, gathering weight, beneath the
warty roof.
He flashes his torch towards the slimy
steps,
coughs twice, and suddenly becomes
aloof.
“That is the lot, thank you; this way
please.
And do be careful on these slippery
stairs.”
His trite voice squeaks again, then
tiredly stops.
(We think: when someone slips he never
cares.) <
I wish instead of one who talked such
prose
to show us Fairy Dells and Whales and
whatnot
we could have had a poet as our guide:
for the poet, man of the literal meaning,
knows
that a cave is surely no more than a cave
(or, if you like, a damp rheumatic hole)
— unless, maybe, sometimes he finds
it is the microcosm of man’s soul.
S.A.
IAN MUDIE.


T'vARGIE’S winning Archibald Prize
portrait of Namatjira recalls a sitter
for B. E. Minns, painter of aborigines a
generation back. While Minns was holi-
daying at the homestead of a New Eng-
land (N.S.W.) grazier, “King” Billy, a
full-blooded aborigine, and his entourage,
consisting of a fat gin, piccaninny and
two incredibly thin dogs, called to collect
the ration of meat, tea, flour and sugar
which the homestead always supplied to
abos. on walkabout. For an agreed-upon
fee of two-bob Billy became a sitter while
the artist for two hours sketched and
painted, Billy sitting in silence, motion-
less, almost unwinking. When it was
finished Minns handed the portrait to his
subject for comment. Billy looked fixedly
at it for some time, turned it upside-down,
then back-to-front. Then, “What he
is . . . dawg?” he inquired interestedly.
—“E.S.L.”
* * * *
“Rothy”: Touching on these relative-
named properties, I was told by a Darling
Downs (Q.) cocky of a freak storm that
“came fair across Auntie Ursie, clean
into Mrs. Howler and tore into Uncle
Hubie with hail as big as emu-eggs!”
* * * *
“NortJj Esk”: A Launceston (Tas.)
family have been amazed to see a plant
which for years maintained normal slow
growth suddenly put on a sprint and
“ What Was the hold-up—wharf trouble?"
shoot up to a height of 20ft. Tall, grace-
ful and slender, it looks like a traditional
Christmas-tree. Now, for the first time
in the recollection of the neighborhood,
the plant has flowered. It is thought to
be a type of cactus which (like one at
Entally, Tasmania’s national house)
flowers only once in a century.
* * * *
“Yellow Five”: The most astonishing
of the many uninvited visitors —snakes,
goannas, dingos and suchlike —that came
to our old hospital at Mt. Mulligan
(N.Q.) walked boldly in at night while I
was sitting quietly writing the day-report.
They were a mother native-cat, with
several kittens which followed her one
after the other like ducklings. They
passed only 3ft. from me straight into the
kitchen, no doubt on the lookout for
scraps. At my first movement they shot
off into the dark. I plead guilty to
leaving scraps around for them there-
after.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: Even' big spiders aren’t
pleased to see beetles blunder into their
webs. With their strong legs and jaws
the larger beetles quickly kick and bite
themselves free, unless the house-
holder trusses them up with fresh
thread. The spider fears to
approach the thrashing, sawlike
legs and does her work from a
distance. Noticed what appeared
to be a cocoon of some sort
hanging in the web of a garden-
spider that swung between two
angophora-saplings. Lifted the
cocoon out and found a medium-
sized black-backed beetle encased
in a thick tangle of thread. The
web —and this massive spider spins
a net powerful enough to hold a
small bird —was in ruins, indicat-
ing the tremendous struggle
Hard-back had put up for liberty.
Under the baleful eyes of the huge
householder, squatting on a leaf
at the end of one of her guy-
ropes, I released the beetle, still
alive, though only just—suggesting that
it possessed more resistance to the spider’s
venom than the ordinary run of victims.
* * * H>
“Rosedale”: For an hour or so some
bird outside my window has been rau-
cously inviting me to “Fill ’em up! Fill
’em up! ” There is also a dove which took
over from his fellow-fowl and in his
mournful croak reiterated his insolent
“You’re cuckoo!” until I was nearly
driven so. I am not orie to cavil unduly
at Nature—by and large, she has done a
pretty good job—but why did she have to
give birds a voice?
* * * *
“Lemuel G.”: There’s a simple ex-
planation for the fact that “Uramao’s”
mate (B. 23/l/’57) backed his car up the
hill it would never otherwise climb. No
petrol-pump. Many of the older makes
relied on gravity-feed for their fuel-
supply from tank to carburettor, the tank
being usually placed under the seat to
gain the required height. Tackle too steep
a grade, and you receive immediate proof
that fluids won’t run uphill. So you go at
it in reverse. Furthermore, reverse-gear
in such cars was usually of a lower ratio
than the lowest of the for’ard gears, so
that the stem-first method gave even
better hill-climbing capacity. Proved it
many a time in a 1916 F.N. (flamin’
nuisance).
* * * *
“Sevenelms”: Up in Borneo one
tobacco-planter found that, after con-
vivial evenings at the club, his way from
launch-landing to bungalow needed some
reliable illumination. On the river-bank
grew many native Lauracece shrubs, to
which glow-worms were patently
addicted ; so he had all shrubs grubbed
out except two good specimens 10ft.
apart flanking the path as it crested over
the bank from the landing-stage. When-
ever I passed these knowledgeably
designed beacons after dark they were
“I'll be glad when they go!"
pulsating like miniature Eddystones.
Naturalists expound that this light-
showing is a mating-manifestation, and
that the luminous rhythm differs between
male and female, but careful scrutiny con-
firmed that both bushes' were synchro-
nised, the beat was regular at about isec.
on and 4sec. off, and unison seemed
perfect. If there was any unseemly, un-
regimented twinkling being carried on
between the sexes it would have escaped
the eagle eye of tho Religious Editor
himself.
* * * * »
“Kelms”: Irr aviaries budgerigars con-
tinue laying for weeks ; after the first
few hatch, the adult birds take it easy
and leave most of the sitting to the nest-
lings, which bring out the rest of the
eggs. In feeding, if every little beak is
open the food’s popped into the nearest
one; that closes it, and the parents work
like Trojans to keep some closed at least
part of the time. If the parent finds all
beaks closed she taps the first beak and
it opens—automatically, because Nature
has ordained this ; but if what is popped
in isn’t swallowed instantly, it’s retrieved
and offered to the next in line. That’s
how a cuckoo-nestling gets the bulk of
the food —its mouth is always ope,n.
* * * *
“H.J.W.”: The snake I caught trying
to swallow a frill-necked lizard had got
its victim head-first down as far as the
frill when I settled Joe’s hash with a stick.
I freed the lizard, which was alive but
comatose, and placed it on a near-by
stump. It was still there next day when
I passed, and on the day after that it still
seemed doped. On the third morning
when I went to pick it up Jewy reared-up
in defence, then ran for his life. Appar-
ently temporary sojourn in Joe’s mouth
induces prolonged lethargy.
* * * *
“Manamoi”: In the U.S., as in Aus-
tralia, there are several methods of throw-
ing cattle —and several schools of opinion
as to the respective merits. Most common,
and allegedly easiest, is the “hard-and-
fast” way. The roper, having one end of
his lasso made fast to his saddle-hbm,
casts the loop over the beast’s horns,
from behind. He then drops the
rope along the off-side and spears
his pony off towards the near-side. When
the slack is taken-up the rope jerks the
beast’s head to the off, at the same time
cutting the hind-legs from under it, making
it fall hard. Dismounting, with his pony
left to keep a steady strain on the rope,
the cowboy takes his “piggin’ string” and
ties three of the steer’s legs, as we do with
sheep. If the victim is dazed by its fall,
this may be easy. If not, the cowboy
leans over its back, or kneels on its ribs,
and apparently (I have not seen this from
close-up) loops his “piggin’ string” round
both hind-legs and throws a hitch over a
foreleg.
* * * *
“Bo”: You need a fair nerve in the
timber-game to operate the “drive,” that
mass fall in which a number of trees are
half cut-through, and a falling tree aimed
at the nearest one brings the lot down
like a tumbling house-of-cards. I’ve wit-
nessed only one of these affairs, and it
was plenty. The presiding genius was a
Scot named Jock. After I had taken
refuge behind the stoutest non-combatant
vegetable in the area, Jock set the game
in motion with a well-aimed smack of a
90-footer against an 80-footer. All
seemed to be going according to plan
when a gust of wind caught the top-
hamper of one tree and spun it off
another. Within a few seconds several
tons of infuriated firewood were descend-
ing in pursuit of Jock. He hit the bottom
of a near-by hole about half a second
before the bole of the tree thudded across
the top of it. Using the bole as a con-
venient umbrella to ward off descending
branches, he waited till the last leaf
floated down, and then crawled out,
dredged from the pocket of his moleskins
the makings, and as he rolled one
drawled: “It’s a verra frustratin’ game
this, at times.”
* * * *
RECENT deaths in the Centre from
heat and thirst point to how high
temperature combined with ground- and
air-salinity can speedily subject the
human body to a deadly dehydration.
The rate of body-fluid loss has to be
suffered to be realised.
Once a couple of us faced a 27-mile
walk after a vehicle-mishap, in which
we had lost all our water-supply. As
the temperature was well over the
century we rested until sundown. We’d
had a good lunch, with plenty of fluid-
intake, before the accident,' and we con-
fidently plotted a cross-country course.
The strqng nor’-wester was salt- and
but the first few hours
weren’t too bad. Without water, however,
our tramp soon developed into one of
intense physical 'suffering with acute
mental distress. We were down to
crawling when at dawn a jeep picked us
up. Swollen tongues and cracked lips
made us inarticulate.
From that and other experiences I’d
give this advice:
If you must travel off the main routes
in desert areas tell someone of your
destination and timetable before setting
out. Get a map or a pastoral-plan of’
the territory in which you propose to
travel.
Carry waterbags high at the rear of
the vehicle; they can be holed if hung
in the front or on the sides of a car in
gibber-country.
Drums of water to the limit of your
carrying capacity inside the vehicle
should be packed in addition.
Pack dry-rations for at least one week,
with a case of tinned-fruit as an invalu-
able aid in an emergency.
If in trouble on a used track, stay with
the vehicle.
If bogged in rilling sand from the edge
of a sand-ridge use the seats promptly
as shutters to block the sand from getting
under the car. Avoid any exertion in
the sun ; dig yourself out only in the
evening or early morning.
If a hike is the only solution, plan it
in relation to rationed water-supplies.
Walk at night, with a limit of 15 miles ;
rest during the day.
If in shadeless sandy areas scoop a
shallow pit for, yourself. Strip off and
use your clothes as a rig to give shelter
from the sun.
If you don't panic you’ll have a fair
chance of survival and rescue.
OLD OPENCUT.
REID’S MISTAKE
(Lake Macquarie)
4 simple saga—an odyssey
From the dawn of our country’s history —
Captain Reid sailed, from Sydney Town,
Breasting the current surging down,
Tacking northerly toward his goal,
Hunter’s River and its good black coal.
He found a stream by a headland fair,
And a guardian island watching there ;
Above the gently shelving beach
The coal abounded in easy reach ;
Without ado and without delay
He gathered his cargo and sailed away.
Sailed away with his merchandise
From the gate to an earthly paradise,
Unwitting, uncaring the way he had found
To the placid, gleaming, sun-kissed sound,
Where the bush caresses the winding
strand —
And the capes of a dreamy fairyland.
Today where the soughing beaches hem
The fringe of this crystal diadem,
Mirroring silver and ultramarine
In its fingering coves and bays serene,
The sentinel head by the faery Lake
Recalls the story of Reid’s Mistake.
N.S.W.
HILTON BARTON.


01 (I
jyy
rati
S ji
imr
Will
Your Business
“die” with you?
What assurance have you that the business you have
built throughout a lifetime will continue to function
without dislocation and to the advantage of your
beneficiaries after your death?
Your appointment of Union Trustee as Executor,
Trustee, Manager or Attorney would ensure sound
administration of your affairs impartially and per-
manently—at moderate cost—and safeguard the
future of your Estate.
Write or ’phone for an appointment to discuss our
service, and obtain a copy of the explanatory
booklet, “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
• OMPANT OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
.(incorporated in Victoria) Established 1888
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORATE AND MANAGEMENT:
Directorate: E. T. H. Richardson (Chairman): Sir Clive
McPherson, C.B.E. (Vice-Chairman); Arthur Debenham;
Norman J. Carson, C.M.G.; C. N. McKay; S. M. Kimpton.
General Manager: John Larritt. Manager: C. N. Williams.
Resident Officer for Northern Victoria and the Riverina:
S. L. G. MacDonald. Albury.
Pastoral Inspector: E. P. Learmonth.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W. DIRECTORATE:
The Hon. Robert C. Wilson, C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, Ol (Vice-Chairman);
The Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.8.K., Q.C., M.L.C.; Bertram
J. F. Wright, R. A. Irish; Duncan N. Mathieson.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: A. B.
Tilemann. Pastoral Inspector: Frank Laird. District
Representative for Newcastle: H. B. Morison.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Queensland Board: J. W. Fletcher. 0.8. E. (Chairman);
Byrne Hart (Vice-Chairman); Cecil Brenan; A. E. Axon;
W. Hamilton Hart; Norman Jameson.
Manager: C. D. Wrigley. Assistant Manager: E. N. Jobst.
Pastoral Inspector: R. O. Spenceley.
And ll Townsville, Toowoomba, Rockhampton and
Charlevlße.
CT2B
Business, Robbery, Etc
Productivity—and Profit
IN this year of grace — a.d. 1957,
* nearly twelve years after
World War II —a gathering of
economists, industrialists, trade-
union officials and others at
Canberra has devoted its
collective brain-power to a
discussion on productivity.
Officially, it was the summer
school of the Australian
Institute of Political Science.
It can be said at once, and
emphatically, that the economists
and others concerned have not
been venturing too soon or too
boldly into the subject. In
general, they are on solid ground,
and very little scouting or
exploration should have been
necessary for them to reach an
opinion.
So far as The Bulletin is
concerned, the need for increased
productivity has become almost
a cliche in its columns during
the past 15 years. Most people
were aware of the need for
greater production in order to
help win World War II; fewer
were ready to acknowledge its
necessity in order to put value
back into the post-war pound.
And the Federal Arbitration
Court in 1947 seemed blithely
unaware that productivity had
much bearing on the inflation
problem, or that hours worked
had much bearing on produc-
tivity. In any case, at a time
when Australia was urgently in
need, of a blood-transfusion of
increased productivity, output
per man per week was cut by
10 p.c. through the reduction of
the statutory working-week from
44 to 40 hours.
Ecopomists, and especially
“political” economists, have
shied-joff the problem of pro-
ductivity. Many economists,
anyway, seem to think in money
terms at all times, and not in
terms of production and its
distribution in the economy. It
was significant, too, as The
Bulletin was first to point out
at the time, that nowhere in the
manifesto of the celebrated eight
economists in February, 1956,
was the word “productivity”
mentioned, or anything
resembling it. As was
commented here:
Perhaps it is because they have A
read about it too often in these pages.
More likely it is because it is a blunt
word, with a very plain political
significance
No doubt a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay -is more difficult,
politically and physically, to achieve
than to tackle the problem from the
side or the back instead of the front;
but don’t let us deceive ourselves
about what is really involved. The
rot really commenced with the
introduction of the 40-hour week, and
though it was encouraged by the
spending-pressure that accompanied
the price-boom in wool, wheat, metals,
ets., our Achilles-heel remained our
too-low output per man-hour.
Several years ago The
Bulletin summarised the
economic malady afflicting
Australia as one in which there
was “not enough production, not
enough efficiency (employer and
employee), not enough profit,
not enough savings, not enough
investment.” It added: “We are
not producing enough goods for
consumption or for turning into
capital-assets, and of total pro-
duction too great a proportion
,is being absorbed by consumers.
If there were enough desirable
production to meet all our
requirements, created at a
reasonable cost, then there
would be no major problem
either of liquidity or the finding
of investment funds required to
finance the needs of private or
public enterprise We are in
need of greatly increased produc-
tion, and of that production a
much larger proportion must
flow into reproductive channels.”
Some people, especially the
Sangara Rubber
o ANGARA PLANTATION
and Development Co., Ltd.,
Popondetta, Papua, operating
co. for Sangara Holdings, Ltd.,
reports a net profit, subject to-
audit, of £33,310 for the year to
October 31 last, after providing
for depreciation and amortisa-
tion. Rubber production was
475,0001 b., and sales brought in
£72,333.
Enough will be handed on to
the holding co. to pay 6 p.c. on
its prefs. and p.c. on the
ords., provide for staff bonuses,
and carry £4500 to reserves.
After a long and unhappy
wait, Sangara ordinary share-
holders now have reasonable
trade-union movement, are
scared of productivity and profit.
But in an intelligently managed
economy increased productivity
is the basis of any true increase
in living-standards and social
security, and reasonable profits,
in a private-enterprise economy,
are the most reliable source of
capital for industrial equity
investments.
Profit-policy, like wage-policy,
can be abused, but profits as
well as wages are absolutely
necessary in a private-enterprise
economy. The greater the pro-
ductivity per head of the Aus-
tralian population the higher will
be the standard of living and
the greater the urge of overseas
people to migrate to Australia.
Likewise, the greater the profit-
earning potential, the greater will
be the urge of overseas capitalists
to invest in Australia.
Thus, through greater pro-
ductivity, would two of Aus-
tralia’s most pressing problems
be solved. Thrifty, industrious
people have few economic
problems that don’t virtually
solve themselves.
Nottingham Insurance
Nottingham insur-
ance CO., LTD., regis-
tered in Melbourne, Australia,
in 1928, and„ more recently
domiciled in Sydney, which used
to pay quarterly dividends (just
like the big, strong banks) almost
before it could crawl, reports a
loss of £91,655 for The year to
June 30 last.
That is equal to more than
half the co.’s subscribed capital
of £150,000.
Losses have been mostly in
respect of motor-car business.
Australian and Overseas
Insurance Co., Ltd., a subsidiary
of Motor Traders’ Insurance Co.
Pty., Ltd., has offered to acquire
the Nottingham capital in
exchange for scrip it now holds
in Sydney Guarantee
Corporation, Ltd.
It will give four ss. Sydney
Guarantee shares for every £1
share in Nottingham, and one
ss. S.G. share for every five ls.-
paids in Nottingham.
Though Sydney Guarantee ss.
shares are below par (at 3s. lid.)
in the sharemarket, the swap
seems desirable from the point
of view of Nottingham share-
holders, who have had no div.
since 1955. Sydney Guarantee is
at present paying 10 p.c.
Application was made for
listing of Nottingham shares on
Sydney and Melbourne ’Changes
in 1951.
They are not yet listed.
hopes of getting 10 p.c. or better
as the plantations extend —pro-
vided prices and costs maintain
their present relationship. Good
work seems to have been done
on the plantatiohs recently.
Last year’s earnings, allowing
for pref. div. requirements, were
to 13.1 p.c. on the holding
co.’s ord. capital.
The scrip is not yet listed.
Sisters* Plateau
[From Tj. Owen]
THE well now being drilled on
Sisters’ Plateau in the
Fitzroy Basin of the Kimberleys
in W.A. was located as the
result of interpretations of a
seismic survey which indicated
a stratigraphic “high” and a
strong reflecting horizon
assumed to mark the top of the
Devonian system —at about
6000 ft. below the surface.
The first well drilled in the
Fitzroy Basin by Associated
Freney was on the Nerrima
dome. This well penetrated thin
sandstone bands showing some
oil, in what was named the
Grant formation, between the
depths of 2675 ft. and 3130 ft. The
Nerrima bore was abandoned at
9072 ft. without commercial
result, and, also disappointingly,
without reaching beds of proved
bevonian age.
The rig was then moved 18
miles northward to Myroodah,
where the existence of a favor-
able structure was reported.
Here, however, strata assumed
to correlate with the Grant
formation of Nerrima were
found to be barren of any trace
of petroleum when entered just
below 4200 ft. Myroodah was
carried down to 6001 ft. before
it was abandoned as a dry hole
in January, 1956.
On January 16, 1957, a press-
release by the directors of
Associated Freney stated that
the Sisters’ Plateau well was at
a depth of about 2600 ft. and
should soon be entering the
Grant formation, in which show-
ings of petroleum were observed
in the Nerrima well. It also
repeated the conjecture that
Devonian limestones should be
encountered around 6000 ft. As
comment, it was added that
Devonian limestone is regarded
as an oil-producer in other parts
of the world.
Two days later the well was
reported as being in sand “below
2640 ft.,” and it was stated that
“the drill struck hard, coarse
sandstone between 2620 ft. and
2640 ft.”
In a report at the end of
January (probably having
reference to January 29) it was
stated that the well had reached
3290 ft. in dark shale and fine
siltstone.
At the Sisters’ Plateau well,
as at Nerrima, the main hopes of
oil have now been relegated to
Devonian limestones, which—at
a conjectural depth of 6000 ft
are expected by the co. to have a
thickness of about 3000 ft. This
being the case, the oil prospects
of the Kimberley Devonian are
worthy of critical examination.
In U.S.A. (whence the only
reliable data on this point are
available) the Devonian and
Silurian systems, between them,
account for rather more than 8
per cent, of the developed oil-
pools. The sum-total of past
production, plus proved reserves
of petroleum from beds of these
periods, is just under 4i p.c. of
that for the whole of U.S.A.
Taking the less-accurate world
figures, total cumulative oil-
production from beds laid-down
during the whole of the
Palaeozoic era —which includes
the Ordovician system -as a
major producer, in addition to
Devonian and Silurian —is 18
p.c. of the world totjal. For com-
parison, it may be noted that
Tertiary beds have accounted for
nearly 60 p.c. of the petroleum
produced to date. The main
producing Devonian oilfields are
located in U.S.A., in Canada,
and in the West Ural area of the
U.S.S.R.
It would, of course, be quite
illogical to apply these figures as
a measure of the chances of
commercial petroleum produc-
tion from the Kimberley
Devonian without taking into
account the local geological
environment and the records of
the search for oil in these beds.
The first striking fact is that—
in all that vast area of North-
west Australia —oply one sur-
face manifestation of petroleum
has been verified ; this occurs in
vesicles of basalt underlying
Cambrian limestones and shales
and outcropping near the junc-
tion of the Ord and Negri rivers.
Near by, a well 1196 ft. deep was
drilled through the Cambrian
beds into the basalt", but no
showings, either of oil or gas,
were noted. While the Ord
River well was drilling, a water-
well, sunk near Christmas Creek,
in the West Kimberleys, pene-
trated Devonian limestones and
shales which gave showings of
oil; a little later, two other wells
in the vicinity also showed traces
of oil, but no measurable pro-
duction. These wells were
abandoned in massive limestones
of Devonian age.
At Mount Wynne, fragments
of bitumen (up' to lin. in
diameter) were found in Permian
sandstones brought up by the
bailer, whilst at Poole Range
several test-wells drilled between
1925 and 1930, to varying depths
up to 3264 ft., reported traces of
oil but no production. More
recently, the Nerrima well found
a little oil between 2675 ft. and
3130 ft. in the Gra,nt formation,
which is considered to belong to
the lower Permian.
It should be emphasised, how-
ever, that small shows of oil are
very commonly met with in wells
penetrating Substantial deposits
of sedimentary strata; unfortu-
nately, they have often assumed
a quite unjustified importance
when recorded in Australian
wildcat wells. The fact that no
production has yet been obtained
from the Devonian of the
Kimberleys doesn’t, of course,
destroy all hope of striking com-
mercial deposits of petroleum in
these beds in the future, but the
absence of surface manifesta-
tions —even where the structures
are badly broken should
engender great caution.
It is necessary, in my opinion,
to know the complex geological
history of the area in much
greater detail than at present and
to apply that knowledge to the
correct interpretation of both
geological and geophysical data
—before further drilling, with its
inevitably heavy expenditure, is
undertaken. A prominent reflec-
tion horizon—which led to the
assumption that the surface ol
the Devonian is 6000 ft. deep in
the Sisters’ Plateau well— may
be the effect of a number ol
conditions.


5.1!
: :-v <y.•
BAWW
answer to your
grain storage problems
• Heavy gauge galvanized steel sheets
• Easily erected permanent
• Rodent and weatherproof
' * Hinged type bag holder
on 1000-8500 Bushel Silos
• Steel earth rings and
loading platforms are
available as extras if
required
• Prompt delivery
A LYSAGHT
Grain Silos
EARTH RING
An earth ring, which is an extra
ring of corrugated steel sheets
filled with earth or sand, is a
most effective and economical
method of erecting an elevated
base for your Lysaght Silo. The
use of an earth ring reduces the
risk of underground seepage.
Full details are available on
request.
AUGERS
A completely new type grain
auger is now available to fill
and empty Lysaght Silos.
AND AUGERS
PRICES (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
200 Bushel Silo £4B
2SO ~ „ (Elevated) £94
SOO „ „ £BO
1,000 „ „ £l3B
2,000 „ „ - £2ll
2,000 „ „ (Squat) £2ll
3,000 „ „ £225
3.5Q0 ~ £2*B
4.500 „ „ —•• £453
8.500 ~ £7l*
Write for further information and Agents Names to: —
LYSAGHT’S WORKS PTY. LIMITED
Newcastle, or John Lysagkt I Australia I Pty. Ltd. In
all Capital Cities.
SWA
me mmliEaces
cut costs ... SAVE MONEY WITH
TUBELESS
cheaper ,
v sncf safer Mips
/ rfOf’Q'
bf/ZesK ■ ,>
More
Cfi/tffot&bfe Miles v
“TIME-SAVING, TOO,” says
FamoHS Test Cricketer, BILL O’REILLY
"These Goodyear
Tubeless Tyres
don't need halt
the attention of
other tyres. They
hold air better,
and if repairs are
needed, it onfy
takes a jiffy to get
them in order
again with a Sim-
plug repair kit with
the tyre still on ihe
*
m
\..x \ \
I
- \ \
!
: f:
Ml
PS
/ *■/■/-/
/ / / /
/ V / /
: / / /'/
• / ' / A /
/ / / -/&rM
/ / /
/ *
/ /. /
/
:•. x
x / /
/ &
/ /
K
% % w\
mm
ill
L\ \\\ \\\ \\
GREATEST MONEY-SAVING TYRES EVER!
Reports are coming in from enthusiastic motorists all over Aus-
tralia. One motorist has obtained 33,000 miles on a set of
Goodyear Tubeless; another, 34,600 miles in hard going 24 hours
a day on shift work. Two instances among hundreds. And, on
top of money-saving mileages, they get real tyre-safety.
good/^ear
TUBELESS AND TUBE-TYPE TYRES
More people, the world over, ride on Goodyear Tyres
than on any other make.
■■ -■
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY
npHE slump in the U.K. butter
market, coupled with the
threat of a continued decline in
meat prices, ' has given New
Zealand a New Year headache.
Calling a special night meeting
of Cabinet to discuss the situ-
ation, Prime Minister Holland
found it desirable to deny that
the country was “facing a
calamity.”
There, can, however, be no
denying that the prospect is
grim. The current butter price of
2605. (N.Z.) a hundredweight is
140 s. a hundredweight below the
price ruling 12 months ago and
90s. below the guaranteed price
of 3505. paid to N.Z. dairy-
farmers.
Dairy-industry reserves of
£NZ29 million obviously won't
last long if every ton of butter
sold to Britain cuts into them
to the extent' of £NZ9O. Last
year sales to Britain totalled
140,000 tons.
Fortunately other dairy
products are still showing a
profit, but cheese, which was
selling at 2T3s. a cwt. a year ago,
is now down to 2435.
Guaranteed price is 210 s.
No early improvement in
butter prices can be expected. ■
U.K. stocks are nearly four
times as great as they were a
year ago, and it will take a long
time to reduce them, even though
the lowest retail prices for at
least five years are encouraging
higher consumption.
In spite of the glutted state of
the British market N.Z. must
send forward new shipments.
The perishable nature of the
produce and lack of storage-
space make it impossible to hold
back further supplies.
Competition for world butter
markets is increasing greatly.
Production of both butter and
margarine is rising nearly every-
where. Thus the major exporting
countries, including N.Z., have
more to sell while the major
importing countries, including
Britain, have less need to buy.
N.Z. producers are concerned
about the degree of protection
given them by Britain. The duty
on foreign butter imported into
Britain was originally fixed at
a flat money amount. With the
world-wide depreciation of the
value of money it has lost much
of its effectiveness.
Meat, Too
The meat industry faces
problems which are equally
serious though not so urgent.
In the 17 years to 1955 world
meat-production rose by 40 per
cent. Consumption in Britain is
already up to the pre-war level,
and heavily increased supplies
expected in the next year or so
from South America, where the
cost of production is extremely
low, will tend to force prices
down. There have already been
substantial falls, amounting, in
the case of beef last year, to
25 p.c.
N.Z. producers feel that
Britain should give an assurance
that the spirit of Ottawa still
stands and that the Imperial-
preference agreement, made 25
years ago, should be amended so
that it would be effective under
present conditions.
During the war, whi 1 e
Argentina exploited Britain’s
need, N.Z. increased supplies
regardless of price-levels. Yet
in the first nine months of last
year Britain spent £6O million
on imports from Argentina.
Argentina in return spent only
£l4 million with Britain, while
N.Z. spent more than £lOO
million. In the last three years
N.Z. has had an aggregate
balance-of-payments deficit of
£39 million with Britain.
These -and other matters
affecting the security of N.Z.’s
markets will be discussed in
Britain by a trade mission which
the Government is sending there
at the request of combined
producer organisations.
The mission will probably be
headed by the Minister of
Agriculture, Mr. Holyoake, who
may have with him the Minister
of Finance, Mr. Watts. Pro-
ducer representatives will no
doubt include the chairman of
the Dairy Products Marketing
Commission, Mr. W. Marshall,
and the chairman of the Meat
Producers’ Board, Mr. J. D.
Ormond. The N.Z. Manufac-
turers’ Federation, which has
often urged the peed for revision
of the Ottawa agreement, may
also be represented. In fact, N.Z.
will be bringing all its biggest
guns to bear in an effort to secure
better treatment from Britain.
Announcing the mission, the
Prime Minister said that falling
prices had been caused by the
ability of foreign countries to
supply butter and meat to Britain
at cut prices. The prices which
N.Z. received for its exports
determined the amount it could
spend on imports and also the
contribution it could make tp the
security of the free world.
“We are understandably
concerned when the economies
of foreign countries are built up
at the immediate expense of
and N.Z. as a result
of increased British purchases of
foreign foodstuffs which directly
compete with our exports,” he
said.
Apart from, seeking .mere
adequate protection ‘from
Britain, there is one obvious way
in which N.Z. must try to meet
the growing threat to its main
market. It must intensify efforts
to sell its produce elsewhere.
Obstacles
There are formidable obstacles
to be overcome. Some of them
were listed recently by Mr. J. V.
White, rural economist cf the
Agriculture Department. In
Europe, market possibilities were
restricted by lack of purchasing-
power, food habits and policies
aimed at establishing a self-
sufficient food agriculture, he
said. In the East there were
religious prejudices against
animal foodstuffs and low
incomes prevented the purchase
of butter, cheese and meat.
Nevertheless, so great was the
population of these countries
that, even if a small percentage
bought just a little, the aggregate
effect could be significant.
Efforts which are being made
to develop trade with the East
are being hampered by lack of
regular and, adequate shipping
services, to which reference was
made in this column several
months ago.
Since then there has been one
item of good news. A Dutch
shipping-line has announced its
intention of resuming a service
between N.Z. and Malaya and
Indonesia, via Australian ports.
It proposes monthly sailings,
beginning about March, with two
ships, one of which will have
refrigerated space. It should
assist N.Z.’s trade with Singapore
and Malaya and will open-up the
possibility of trade with Indo-
nesia, with which N.Z. has had
no direct shipping connection for
15 years.
Offsetting worries about meat
and butter, wool prices remain
buoyant. Up to the end of last
year, with 40 p.c. of the total
estimated greasy-wool clip sold,
the average price was 52|d. a
pound, 6d. higher than, the
average up to- the same time the
previous year. Extra sterling
and dollar earnings represented
by the higher average price and
the greater volume of sales were
about £5.25 million for the 40
per-cent, of the clip sold. They
may therefore reach £l3 million
or more for the full season if
prices are maintained.


ft
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
THE HON.
T. A. J. PLAYFAIR,
chairman;
SIR EDWARD R. KNOX,
vice-chairman:
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
D. R. LYBAOHT;
JOHN W. DUNLOP;
JOHN DARLING;
A. G. ARMYTAGE.
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
w. S. MATTHEWS,
MANAGER.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER
ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED
£8 H, 000,000
• *.
Efficient and Helpful Service for your dependents . ...
ONE of the most thoughtful and considerate things a man can
do for his family is to ensure freedom from all the cares # and
worries that so frequently go hand in hand with Estate adminis-
tration. •
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Ltd.) as your
Executor and Trustee—alone, or jointly with a relative or friend,
you will ensure that, when the time comes, your Estate will be in
the safe, experienced hands of a Company with a proud record of
more than 70 years’ faithful service to the Community; you will
ensure for your dependents, a service thpt is personal, friendly and
understanding.
If you would know more of the Company’s service, and what
it costs, ring BO 377 or write, and make an appointment. If y° u
prefer, ask that a copy of the Company’s helpful and informative
booklet be sent to you. It is free and post free.
Perpetual trustee
COMPANY limited
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and Others, Administrator, etc.
38 39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY OFFICES AT ORANGE & TAMWORTH
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY
(CANBERRA) LIMITED
INDUSTRY HOUS®. ONR. NATIONAL CIRCUIT &
BLAOKALL STRBBT, CAN BURRA
LOCAL DIRECTORS IN ADDITION TO THOS®
DIRECTORS MENTIONBD AT TH® LEFT:
WARRKN T). MoDONAM), vice-chairman;
8. O. McFAHLANB. C.M.O.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
John Mcllwraith Industries, Ltd.
'TRADING in a highly competitive
market, the John Mcllwraith group
did well last term to lift both turnover
and pre-tax earnings. The group manu-
factures and/or distributes a full range
of builders’ and plumbers’ hardware,
specialising in the production of lead
pipes and fittings (used in acid-plants,
etc., as well as in general plumbing),
plumbers’ brassware and cast-iron
enamelled baths, sinks and basins.
The holding co., John Mcllwraith
Industries, Ltd., was formed in 1950,
and early in the following year 500,000
10s. ords. were offered to the public at a
premium of 6 s. Bd.
Over a century old, the organisation
has its headquarters in Melbourne 'and
subsidiary cos. in all Australian States.
In 1954 the Coburg Iron Foundry Pty.
(Vic.) was bought and, in the same year,
a brass-extrusion plant installed at the
Richmond (Melb.) factory to turn-out
the brass rod needed in the group’s forge
and machine-shop. A Sydney plant pro-
duces the cast-iron porcelain enamelware.
Costs continued to increase last term
(to June 30), but turnover rose to a
record (undisclosed) level, earnings,
before tax, improving by £16,298. The
higher rates of co.-tax spoilt the picture,
an additional £40,359 (to £255,940) being
set aside to cover taxation; leaving net
profit at £366,793, a fall of £24,061.
Depreciation was reckoned at £55,638
(up £4360):
Parent and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, r Dividends N serves. serves.*
& £ £ £
1952. .242,287 12* p.c. = 146,815 95,472 270,958
Unexplained reduction, £2556 .. 268,402
1953. .241,494 12* p.c. = 168,630 72,864 341,266
Unexplained reduction, £191.. .. 341,075
1954. .304,237 12* p.c. = 168,630 135,607 476,682
Goodwill written off, £6OOO .. .. 470,682
Unexplained addition, £l2 .. .. 470,694
1955. .390,854 12* p.c. = 168,630 222,224 692,918
1956. .366,793 12* „ ~ 108,630 198,163 891,081
* Subject to intangibles, £497,042, 30/6/’56.
The 12| p.c. div., paid since the forma-
tion of the co., took less than half of the
earnings, a 27.2 p.c. return on paid capital
following 28.9, 22.5, 17-6 and 20.6 p.c.
back to 1952. Reserves have benefited
from the healthy earning-rate, rising from
£89,054 in 1951 to £891,081 at the end
of last term. Intangibles are in the. books
at £497,042.
Balance-sheet movements resulted in
a further improvement in the liquid
position as well as an extra £77,616 in
fixed-assets (shown mainly at “cost or
valuation”):
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
1954. 1955. 1956.
Paid .capital . . £1,349,643 £1,349,043 £1,349,043
Reserves . . .. 476,682 692,918 891,081
Outside interest .. 88 11 2
Overdraft . . .. 23,998 173,844 108,213
Loans v . . .. 360,596 381,286 436,480
Creditors ... ♦. 267,160 349,580 310,906
Tax provision .. 197,762 237,109 274,523
Final div. .. > 84,315 84,316 84,315
£2,749,644 £8,268,105 £3,454,568
Land, buildings .. 680,616 610,259 654,924
‘Plant, etc. .. 296,122 342,367 375,318
Investments .. 17,562 17,562 17,562
Stock .. .. 772,355 1,040,015 1,171,892
Debtors, etc. .. 685,552 760,299 787,827
Cash 495 661 498
Intangibles ... 497,042 497,042 497,042
£2,749,644 £3,268,105 £8,454,563
During the term a new showroom and
warehouse was opened at Dandenong
(Vic.), and the Sydney factory extended.
New foundry plant has now been installed
in Sydney, “greatly” increasing produc-
tion-capacity. The slight fall in debtors
followed “a tighter credit policy,” and
was accompanied by a 12 p.c. increase in
stocks.
The £1,349,043 paid capital is all in
f.-p. 10s. stock-units, net tangible assets
supporting each unit to the extent of
13s. 7d. At 21s. 3d. the scrip would
return 5.9 p.c. from a 12i p.c. div.
J* & A. Brown & Abermain Seaham
Collieries
pOR some years the Joint Coal Board
has been warning the coalmining
.industry, employees and employers alike,
that, as a result of improved availability
and production of substitute fuels, the
industry was losing its “semi-monopoly
advantage of a seller’s market” and enter-
ing a period of strong competition,
According to the board’s report for
1953:
The extent to which the industry can
hold its markets will depend upon the
degree to which it cap reduce its prices and
costs. Fundamentally this resolves itself
into a question of technical efficiency. Large
sections of the industry are still far from
efficient, and the application of modern
mining qjethods, combined with mechanisa-
tion, gives them an opportunity which they
can only ignore at their peril.
The board thought it necessary to repeat
this statement in the report published last
year.
However, in the N.S.W. coalfields
a considerable amount of modern plant
has been installed over the past three or
four years, enabling improved produc-
tion, lower costs and a reduction, last
term, in selling-prices. Several mines
now uneconomic have been closed,
mechanical aids enabling overall produc-
tion to be maintained. These changes,
essential to the future of the industry,
have resulted in a reduction of the labor
force, with some consequent unemploy-
ment amongst mine-workers, whose need
for employment, rather than the
problems of the coal-industry, constitutes
the “crisis” reported by union officials.
J. and A. Brown is the largest coal-
producer in N.S.W., extracting up to
1,800,000 tons of coal a year from 10
collieries in the Maitland and Newcastle
coalfields. The co. (a merger of coal-
interests which date back to 1845)
operates a modem coal-washing plant, a
large power-station and an engineering-
works as well as its own coalfields rail-
way-system and two colliers.
Last term (to June 30) the co. reported
a “slight” improvement in output, and
more efficient operation enabled a
reduction of Is. 9d. in the average price
per ton of coal. Profits (before tax) are
restricted to 6s. a ton except in special
cases, and dividends are limited to 10 p.c.,
unless a higher rate is approved by the
Joint Coal Board.
Mechanisation of the mines has
required heavy capital-expenditure, and
some taxation concessions have been
made to assist and encourage develop-
ment programmes. These concessions
allow certain capital expenditure as a
deduction from assessable income, and
over the last five years the co. Has set
aside £1,865,304 to finance the purchase
of new plant, etc. In the same period
£563,000 has been written - off in
depreciation.
A net £365,304 (down £84,696) was
charged against gross earnings last term
for future development, and, after
making unstated provision for taxation,
a net profit of £163,301 (up £8116) was
claimed by the co.:
June 30, Profits. t— Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1952 . . 158,736 8 152,001 222,907
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £400,000)
1953 .. 155,216 8 152,001 226,122
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £450,000)
1954 . . 156,345 8 152,001 230,467
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £460,000)
1955 .. 155,185 8 152,001 283,651
(Appropriation capital exp’ture, £365,304)
1956 .. 163,301 8 152,001 244,951
Net earfiings for the fifth successive year
were not much greater than the amount
required for the 8 p.c. div. and, in fact,
represent the surplus available to share-
holders after providing for development
and modernisation of the mines. By
charging some capital-expenditure against
earnings several major items of plant
have been written-off over a short period,
and last term’s provision for depreciation
was reduced accordingly, from £lOO,OOO
to £55,000.
The paid capital of the Wallarah Coal
Co, .was bought last term, and the
transaction is" reflected in the balance-
sheet by an increase in the value of
subsidiary shareholdings-:
1064. 1965. 1956.
Capital .. . .-£1,000,007 £1,900,007 £1,900,007
Reserves 230,466 233,650 244,950
* Capital expenditure
reserve .. .. 450,000 626,447 725,447
Mortgage . . ~ 100,000 100,000 100,000
Creditors and tax-
provMon .. ' 830,452 844,015 768,837
Due to subside. .. 142,742 192,835 191,576
Final div. .. 76,000, 76,000 76,000
£3,729,667 £3,871,954 £4,006,817
Fixed assets .. 1,407,244 1,468,917 1,395,726
Shares, subsids. . . . 310,000 310,000 747,571
Consols and shares 661,590 639,000 440,290
Debtors* deposits
and cash . . 1,165,115 1,263,998 1,042,230
Stocks . . .. 296,718 289,949 274,563
Due by subsids. .. 106,437
£3,729,667 £3,871,954 £4,006,817
Despite heavy capital-outlay, the book-
value of fixed assets has fallen by
£186,458 in the last four years as a result
of tax-free allocations and depreciation
allowances. Presented in a condensed
form, the published balance-sheet lumps
together debtors, deposits and cash-in-
hand at £1,042,230 (down £221,768), and
creditors and tax-provision at £768,837
(down £75,178).
Financially strong, the co. is adapting
itself to current conditions, and the
costly innovations of recent years should
prove their worth as competition in the
fuel market increases.
The 1,900,007 f.-p. £1 shares (no
additions since the formation of the
present co. in 1931) have a net tangible
backing of 215., and at 18s. 9d. would
return 8.5 p.c. from a continued Blp.c.8 l p.c. div.
Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
RESULTS of Taubmans Industries, Ltd.
(for 1955-56), were unexpected and
disappointing.
The co. doesn’t say what actual sales
were, but there was a “gratifying” in-
crease in turnover, which' was a new
record for the business. In terms of sales
of a decade ago, last year’s figure was
4.74 times as great. Against this, though,
costs of raw materials, wages and
services were “substantially” higher, and
there was the extra tax-bill, made the
heavier again last year by the High
Court’s disallowance of provisions for
long-service leave and accrued holiday-
pay for tax-deduction purposes.
The profit was also affected by strikes
on the waterfront early in 1956, which
held-up deliveries of essential raw
materials from overseas and dislocated
manufacturing operations. 5 There was,
the chairman says, a very good case for
reducing costs by staff-reductions until
the emergency passed. It was decided,
however, to retain the full staff, and this
proved costly. *
Taking all expenses into account, in-
cluding unspecified provisions for depre-
ciation and co.-tax, net earnings of the
group dropped £89,327 (20.8 p.c.) to
£339,222:
Tadbmans Industries and Subsidiaries.*
f Dividends—■—^
Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. 5 p.e. serves, serves.f
£ £ p.c. £ £ £
’52.. 278,226 5000 15 = 173,372 99,854 1,227,648
Share premiums, £52,243 .. .. 1,279,891
Profit sale assets, £BO,OOO .. .. 1,359,981
Less intangibles, etc., £44,731 . . 1,316,250
’53. .356,445 5000 16 = 175,309 176,136 1,491,386
Share premiums, £16,368 .. .. 1,507,754
Unexplained additions, £1798 .. 1,509,652
Less added intangibles, £14,074 . . 1,495,478
’54..383,502 5000 15 = 176,338 202,229 1,697,707
Add subsidiaries reserves, £12,760.. 1,710,467
Share premiums, £276,367 .. ~ 1,986,834
Unexplained addition, £86,353 .. 2,073,187
Less added intangibles, £202,801 . . 1,870,386
’55..428,649 5000 15 = 191,651 231,898 2,102,284
Share premiums, £204,428 .. . . 2,306,712
Phis reduction intangibles, £10,622 .. 2,317,334
’56. .339,222 6000 12*= 244,547 89,075 2.407,009
* After eliminating outside interests. f After
deducting intangibles, £274,653 at 30/9/’56.
Between balancing-dates, subscribed
ordinary capital jumped from £1,277,678
to £2,299,821. On the average amount
paid-up over the year the balance of the
smaller profit, after paying the 5 p.c. pref
divs., was equal to 17.1 p.c., compared
with 33.2 p.c. in 1955 and 32.2, 30, 23.6,
30.8 and 35.8 p.c. back to 195 o!
Expressed as a percentage of reserves and
average capital (pref. and ord.) combined,
the return was 7.2 p.c.
As a measure of prudence the ord. div.
was lowered 2\ p.c. to 12i p.c. It wili
allow the co. to maintain working-capital
and strengthen reserves, which also
benefited from the £204,428 of share
premiums gathered in with new ord.
capital (£1,022,143) during the year.
Balance-sheet figures show how the
money was spent:
Consolidated Balance-sheet.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1966.
Pref £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. .. 1,175,554 1,300,799 2,299,821
Reserves .. .. 1,780,181 2,387,559 2,681,662
Outside interests 205,830 ■
Mortgages .. 571,535 572,091 660,009
Creditors* . . 877,83? 933,806 999,161
Pinchin Johnson
advance . . 625,000
Exchange account 107,775 110,716 108,575
Suspense account 89,484
Staff fund .. 28,000 28,000 28,000
Final divs. .. 94,044 102,214 126,490
£4,040,762 £6,160,185 £6,993,202
Freeholds .. .. 1,039,196 1,397,198 1,765,215
Plant . . .. 645,456 938,337 1,028,033
Investments .. 42,925 68,128 68,531
Stocks .. .. 1,846,809 2,489,931
Debtors .. .. 1,078,081 1,329,638 1,184,891
Cash . . . . 129,822 237,000 181,948
Suspense account 25,522 57,800
Intangibles .. 82,474 285,275 274,653
£4,940,752 £6,160,185 £6,993,202
* Includes provision for taxation, f Includes £23,121
calls paid in advance on new share-issue.
The co. made net additions of £457,713
to fixed assets, carried £643,122 more
stock and repatriated the whole of the
£625,000 loan from London manufac-
turers Pinchin Johnson and Associates,
Ltd. Book-debts; were £144,747 lighter,
and £55,052 less cash was held (£181,948).
11l Melbourne, mpdern administrative
offices have been established in premises
in Bourke-street, and a new warehouse
is nearing completion in South Mel-
bourne. As part of its programme of
extending services and facilities the co.
is also building a new warehouse and
factory at Townsville (Q.) and started
up production in recently-acquired
premises at Latrobe (North Tasmania).
At the big new plants at Villawood
(N.S.W.) and Sunshine (Vic.), production
is gradually being stepped up to full
capacity.
For the present, inflation and price-
control are discouraging large-scale in-
vestment in N.Z., but to provide for
expansion at a later date additional land
was acquired in Wellington.
Immediate reaction of the sharemarket
following announcement of the reduced
dividend was to drop the price of the
f.-p. ss. ords. from around 14s. to 12s.
Since then, in the general finning of
equities on ’Change, the scrip has climbed
back to 13s. for a 4.8 p.c. return on
a 12i p.c. div. basis. The 5 p.c. prefs.
trade for around 19s. to yield 5.9 p.c. For
the ords. tangible asset-backing (book-
value) is 10s. a share, for the prefs.
£4B Is. 4d.
United Metal Industries, Ltd.
THIS Queenslander found it much
A harder to compete successfully in
its line of business, budding-fittings, last
year, especially against manufacturers in
the southern States. Within the last
couple of terms the co. has launched out
to sell its products in a wider market in
N.S.W. and the other States, but at the
annual meeting, the chairman, E. D.
Summerson, said that because of the
“tremendous” amount of opposition
encountered, progress had been less than
anticipated
U.M.I. has tried to expand at just a
time when, because of the fewer homes
being built, demand for most of its pro-
ducts —stoves, coppers, sinks, sink- and


DAVIES & COLLISOST, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice*
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
, SOUTH WALES— Ik Divorce.
TO JUREK LATTICH, late of Max Hotel
Moree.—TAKE NOTICE that EMILIA
LATTICH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3013 of 1956 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court Syd-
ney by 18th March 1957 and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
BRIGGS & WEBSTER, Solicitors; of 750 a
George Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO GORDON CHARLES WHEATLEY
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
KATHLEEN PATRICIA WHEATLEY has
filed a petition for divorce No. 4631 of
1955 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or evcuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 6th April 1957 and
■obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from F. E. FISCHER, Solicitor, of
183 Pitt Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar,
MAGNETIC ORE SEPARATOR
Manufactured by Rapid Magnetic Machines, Ltd., England,
for the recovery of
Zircon Rutile, etc., from
beach and other sands
and magnetic minerals.
Machines also for re-
moval of iron, etc., from
varipus products. Lift-
ing Magnets, Clutches,
Holding or Clamping
Magnets, Magnetic Floor
Sweepers, etc.
Send for Bulletin to
the Agents:
GUTHRIDGE PTY., LIMITED,
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.,
Manufacturers of Curvilinear Concentrating Tables, Water
Filters, Everlasting Steam Valves, etc.
ELECTRIC LIFTS HYDRAULIC
ELEVATORS PTY. LIMITED
877 Dowling Street, Waterloo. MX 2208
Represented in all States. Telegrams: Hydelec.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS for Express Lift Co., Ltd., England.
<•0: '■
... I’m the
smartest of them all!
That’s what any boy will say when he’s wearing a
Stamina Double Breasted Suit because Stamina
boys’ suits are designed, cut, made and finished by
master-craftsmen. That means the Stamina suit you
buy for your boy will fit him perfectly, fit him comfort-
ably, and keep on fitting him for years. .. for every
Stamina garment has a generously wide “Grow-tuck”
hem which can be let down as he grows.
So ... if you want the best for your boy
the neatest, smartest Double Breasted Suit
obtainable, ask for Stamina.
CLOTHKS
ASK FOR
Stamina
ft
'
TAILORED FROM CRUSADER CLOTH
\ 8W7.113
bath-heaters, etc.-—was slacken-
ing.
“During the last half of the
financial year, and particularly in
the last three months,” reported
the chairman, “sales fell away
rather severely, particularly in
gas and electric ranges.” The
latest available Australian pro-
duction figures (for October,
1956) showed a slight increase
in most building-fittings com-
pared with twelve months earlier,
with a definite improvement in
sales of electric stoves. Output
over a longer period of a number
of items from Australian
factories is given in this table:
Australian Production Statistics.
Cooking' Bath- Sink- Cop-
June. Stoves.* heaters.* heaters.f pers.x
1954.. 130,600 88,700 17,400 57,900
1955.. 155,700 86,800 17,100 55,800
1956.. 146,500 79,900 16,700 52,400
4 months
0ct.,’56 58,350 26,580 6,410 15,790
* Electric, gas, fuel. t Electric,
x Electric, gas.
Distance is a handicap to U.M.1.,
and it also shares the problems
of rising labor and raw-material
costs, in spite of lower Queens-
land wages. In 1956 gross profit
of the parent co. contracted
£53,583 to £114,303, of which
“business expenses” made off
with £38,126 (down £8176),
depreciation £21,877 (up £4557)
and taxation £25,045 (down
£21,755), leaving profit £28,209
lighter at £29,255. Put another
way, gross profit last year fell
31.9 p.c. but expenses, including
depreciation and taxation, were
only 23 p.c. less:
United Metal Industries, Ltd.
———Dividends — Re-
June Profit. Pref.* Ord. serves, f
30,' £ p.c. £ p.c, £ £
1951.. 45,584 1(1=3542 10=20,825 117,174
1952.. 44,136 10=3542 10=20,825 186,948
Tax overprovided, £4449 .. 141,392
Share-issue expenses w/off,
£lB4l 140.051
1953.. 48,060 10=3542 10=21,839 162,730
1954.. 52,900 10=3542 10=26,908 185,180
Unexplained reduction, £4 185.176
1955.. 57,464 10=3542 10=21,916 212,182
Tax overprovided, £3450 .. 216,632
From provisions, £20,000 .. 235,632
1956.. 29,255 10=3542 10=30,470 230,875
* 8 p.c. cumulative preference participat-
ing with ordinary shares up to 10 p.c.
t Subject to intangibles, £ll,OOO at
30/6/’56.
During the term the co.’s
contributing shares became fully
paid up ; on the mean pref. and
ord. capital the £29,255 repre-
sented only 8.6 p.c., as against
22.6 p.c. in 1955 and 17.4, 18.9,
18.1 and 18.7 p.c. back to 1951.
As an expression of confidence
that the current year would be
better, the div. was maintained at
10 p.c.; interim ord. div. this
term, though, has been lowered
from 5 p.c. to 2\ p.c. Reserves,
which stood at £230,875 on
June 30, gained from the writing-
back of £3450 tax overprovided
and £20,000 from a stock price-
fluctuation provision. The
balance of the account is con-
sidered to be ample to cover the
contingency. The merchandising
offshoot, U.M.I. Sales, Ltd.,
in which United Metal owns a
tenth of the share-capital, had a
gross profit of £,(07,521 (up
£3087) and a net profit, after
expenses, depreciation and tax
(£106,207, up £3489), of £1314
(down £402).
Enuring the year the co. decided
to close-down its tinning depart-
ment “to the ultimate benefit of
the business,” and in other
sections at Woolloongabba spent
an actual £40,720 on buildings,
plant, etc.
Expenditure this term won’t
be nearly as big. Book-debts
were £14,947 lighter, and stock
was down a net £69,875. At the
same time the co. clipped £74,150
off the overdraft and £74,267
from the amount owing
creditors —
United Metal, Ltd.
Paid capital—- 1955. 1956.
Pref £35,420 £35,420
Ord 269,162 330,079
Reserves .. . . 212.182 230,875
Overdraft .. .. 159,861 85,711
Creditors .. . . 177,219 • 102,952
Final divs. .. 15,229 18,021
£869,073 £803,058
Land, buildings,
plant . . . . 260,878 279,685
Shares subsidiary 1,000 1,000
Stock . . .. 485,482 415,607
Debtors .. .. 110,713 95,766
Intangibles .. 11,u6u 11,000
£869,073 £803,058
Perhaps when the balance of the
unpaid capital was called up a
bigger expansion of trade was
expected than actually eventu-
ated, but, in any event the new
money benefited working-
capital, at the end of the year
£60,803 bigger at £304,689.
Shareholders’ funds accounted
for 74.3 p.c. of all funds used in
the business.
Since the current term opened
the co. has marketed a new gas-
range with good results, and
introduced new and redesigned
models of other products. It has
also taken on the Queensland
agency for Pyrox and Junkers
hot-water systems and Schwank
domestic and industrial gas-
burners.
The market takes a cautious
view following last year’s result,
and prices the £1 ord. scrip at
245. (325. 6d. a year, ago), to yield
8.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The 8 p.c.-10 p.c. participating
prefs. last fetched 305., to return
5.3 p.c. Net tangibles (book-
value) are £l6 10s. 6d. the prefs.,
335. 4d. the ords.
Emperor Mines, Ltd.
A HOLDING co., Emperor
Mines, Ltd., normally
receives the bulk of its income
in dividends from the wholly-
owned Emperor Gold Mining
Co., Ltd., Fiji. Last term, how-
ever, the mining co.’s- net
earnings fell sharply, and at
£27,942 were £49,766 below the
previous term’s effort, two-
thirds of the parent’s £6478
(down £94,351) income coming
from a £75,000 holding of
Custom Credit debenture-stock.
During the yea/ ended June
20, ’56, the operating co. treated
149,029 tons of ore (down 7019
tons), and although the grade
was a little richer, gold produc-
tion \yas down by 15190 z.:
Year , —Gold —————,
to Treated Head Re- Silver
June Ore, Value, covered, Recov’d,
20, Tons. Dwt. Fine Oz. Fine Oz.
1953.. 982 7.97 57,221 14,677
1954.. 572 8.15 60,507 16,465
1955. .156,048 8.89 63,003 20,343
1956.. 9.11 61,484 20,183
There was little change in ore-
reserves, which, at the end of
the term, were calculated at
680,100 tons of B.Bdwt. ore, with
another 265,000 tons (7.5dwt.)
of indicated ore.
Proceeds from the sale of
bullion were down by £19,933,
but several other factors also
contributed to big drop in mine'
earnings. The wettest season on
record caused a large increase
in maintenance expenditure and
the suspension of mining work
for a week, while a short strike,
increased wages and the large
(and growing) ratio of under-
ground ore to open-cut ore all
added to operating costs, which
in the last three years have risen
from 68s. to 88s. (Fijian) per ton
mined. Mine development and
exploration also took an extra
£15,404 at £166,748.
When the books closed the
subsidiary held current assets of
£495,796, of which £294,420
♦ \
represented stores. Current
liabilities amounted to £44,992.
In the first 24 weeks of the
current term 26,5850 z. of gold
have been produced, as against
61,4840 z. for the year to June
20, ’56.
The parent showed a net profit
of £3133 (down £94,687), and no
div. was paid on its 1,915,000
f.-p. Is. shares. Divs. of Is. (100
p.c.) had been paid out of earn-
ings from the three preceding
terms.
Bringing 12s. a year ago,
Emperor Mines scrip last sold at
95., the market thus valuing the
undertaking at £861,300.
Ravensthorpe Copper Mines
A MONTH before its treat-
ment-plant is scheduled to
go into production, Ravens-
thorpe Copper Mines, N.L., has
decided to double the planned
throughput-rate to an eventual
,10,000 tons of ore per four-
week period.
The co. expects to be working
on underground ore of a
recoverable grade of 3 pc.
copper. Anxious to get into pro-
duction, the board has pushed
ahead with - plant-installation
rather than the proving of ore-
reserves, which are roughly
estimated at a possible 1|
million tons.
Arrangements have been com-
pleted for the sale of concen-
trates produced at Ravensthorpe
(W.A.) in the first year of opera-
tions at a price “better than
expected.”
To enable expansion of
development-work and to finance
the balance of plant-installation
costs, a call of Is. a share has
been announced, payable this
month. The 10s. shares will then
be paid to ss.


Women’s Letter
MELBOURNE
Not even the prominently-displayed
full-house sign at the premiere of “The
Pajama Game’’ at Her Majesty’s could
daunt the hopeful who lined up at the
box-office, dwelliqg on cancellations..
But every seat was , occupied, and the
ovation accorded the all-Australian com-
pany at performance - close was
thoroughly earned.
In a very well-dressed audience one of
the loveliest lace gowns was worn by
Lady Tait. Deep-cream in toning, it was
cut on sheath-lines and was re-
embroidered in crystals and sequins.
With it was worn a theatre-coat in
matching satin. Mrs. Richard Hearne
(wife of “Mr. Pastry”) was another in
lace, hers in poinsettia-red, being short
and full, the bodice strapless.
. Mrs. Johnson (wife of Dr. Roy
Johnson, of the U.S. Foreign Service)
wore a formal gown of ice-blue satin, the
skirt finished at back with a full, draped
pannier which came from the side-seams.
Mrs. Tom Hudson’s white tulle frock had
guipure-lace appliques and was worn
over an underskirt ruffled from waist 4o
hem. Mrs. Terry Vaughan’s full-skirted
short frock was of white, silk-organza.
Crystal dewdrops gleamed on Mrs. A. G.
Silk’s grey satin frock. A short full
skirt of navy chiffon allied to a strapless
top of matching Chantilly-lace was
Mrs. Douglas Donald’s choice. Mrs. Leo
Guest wore a bouffant black faille frock.
Mrs. Gordon Steege chose white tulle
glittering with gold-sequin embroideries,
her daughter Diana a high-necked shQrt
bouffant frock of white silk-organza, j
At the. foyer supper*-party which
followed the performance English actress
Ursula Jeans wore a lovely gown of
pervenche-blue guipure-lace, which had
the deep neckline outlined with pearl-
embroideries. Mrs. Eric Wahlquist chose
a sheath-frock of pink-ana-gold lame,
and Toni Lamond, star of “The Pajama
Game,”- teamed a full white, tulle skirt
with a black Chantilly-lace top. Mrs.
Garnet Carroll’s graceful gown was of
heavy gold guipure-lace.
☆ ☆ ☆
When Dawn Margaret, eldest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. L. W. Greville, of
Surrey Hills, was married to Dr. Peter
Francis Bladin at Xavier College Chapel
she wore a graceful, trained gown of
white Chantilly-lace. A coronet of
orange-blossom held the fingertip tulle
veil, and she carried a bouquet of white
waterlilies and stephanotis.
A trio of pretty bridesmaids, Olga and
Wendy Greville and Sandra Bladin, wore
white French-cotton frocks embroidered
with tiny pink, blue and white flowers.
White flowers were worn on their heads,
and their bouquets were of Cecile
Brunner roses and white rosebuds. The
bridegroom, who is the only son of Air-
Vice-Marshal and Mrs. F. M. Bladin, of
Adastra, Yass (N.S.W.), had Dr. Peter
Kiernan as his best man, and Dr. John
O’Callaghan and Warwick Greville were
groomsmen.
At the reception at Ciro’s Mrs. Greville
wore grey pure-silk, flower-embroidered
with a white hat swathed with white
organza, Mrs. Bladin chose a gold faille
Princess-line frock and small hat in paler-
gold tonings. Among the guests were
Lieut.-General and Mrs. Clowes, Mr. and
Mrs. N. D. Carlyon, Professor and Mrs.
W. A. Rawlinson, Mr. and Mrs. H. V.
Holmberg, Mr. and frjrs. H. Fitzsimmons,
and Dr. and Mrs. G. Crock. ,
☆ ☆ ☆
Under a starry sky on a pleasant night
the vast audience at Kooyong thoroughly
enjoyed the “Water Follies of 1957.” The
lovely, lissom aquabelles, led by Mary
Dwight, were at their most effective
under “black light,” when their swim-
suits were rendered luminous and made
them look like a school of graceful fish
playing in tropical moonlit water. This
show is a mixture of superb, spectacular
diving, stage-turns and comedy. The
breath-taking and brilliant balancing of
Renald and Rudy kept everyone on
seat-edge.
Noted among the opening-night
audience Premier Henry Bolte and his
wife, the Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress, U.S. Consuh W. Bushwaller
and his family, the Frank Martins, the
Gordon Coopers, Mr. and Mrs. John
Carrodus and, small daughter Suzanne,
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Nicholl, Mr. and
Mrs. 1 Bill Ford, the Jim McCoys, Mr.
and Mrs. Bill Dane, and Mr. and Mrs.
Bob Jobling.
Over four years ago Gloria Lynch and
her husband, Ormonde Douglas, already
well-known on the stage here, went to
London, both joining the cast of “Paint
Your Wagon.” After that play finished
its 18-months run Gloria turned to
modelling work, then (with her husband )
to radio and television: Now returned
here after a tour of the Continent, she
hopes to do television- and stage-work
again. Photo by Harrison Marks.
Although this summer has still a few
weeks to go a print-collection of next
summer’s fashion-designs, comprising
clothes made in Everglaze-cottpn and
nylon, were shown. The designs were
from Silk and Textile Printers, Ltd.
Maklon is a bubble-nylon, and makes-
up marvellously in frocks for day or
night.
Another fabric, nylon-poplin, used
for a sheath-frock which carried brown
and blue pansies printed on a yellow
background, with touches of royal-blue
poult on the bodice. With it was worn a
reversible theatre-coat, lined with royal-
blue poult. » Pink and red carnations
bloomed on a classic shirt-dress in
bayaders nylon-poplin, and for a dinner-
date there was a nylon-poplin sheath-
frock and jacket; tiny roses were printed
on its grey background, and it was
trimmed with satin.
The Everglaze collection included a
new fabric, Everglaze-Jacqueline, an all-
viscose faille with a yarn-dyed black
thread in the warp, printed to give a
jacquard-look. Everglaze fashion
adviser Bambi Shmith came from Sydney
to model several of the designs, and
appeared in a sheath-frock and sleeved
cape in dream-sheen cotton, patterned
in all-over black, white and tobacco
design. Also presented was an-
other new fabric, Everglaze Caris-
sima, a rayon and cotton mixture,
woven to look like jacquard. This fabric
is ideal for suits, jackets and coats ; it
is crease-resisting and washable. Also
seen for the first time was acetate-pongee,
which has a pure-silk look, is crease-
resistant and washable, and has the
romantic name of Rondelle. Most
attractive were the Coolabah-cottons,
which are drip-dry no-iron and resist
stains.
, ☆ * ☆
The final party to farewell U.S.
Consul Joseph Wiedenmayer and his wife
was given by U.S. Consul-General Gerald
Warner and Mrs. Warner in their South
Varra home. Before going to Washington
the Wiedenmayer family will go to
Bangkok, where Mr. Wiedenmayer will
attend the Seato conference.
The party was also a means of intro-
ducing the new Consul and his wife,
Mr. and Mrs. William Bushwaller.
Receiving her guests, Mrs. Warner wore
a halter-necked white . cotton frock.
Mrs. Wiedenmayer chose a soft-pink silk
frock with a full, pleated skirt, and
Mrs. Bushwaller black brocade patterned
in tiny shamrocks.
Among the guests were the wife of the
Italian Consul-General, IVJarchesa Sera-
fim, who chose a blue pure-silk frock
patterned in black and a large black tulle
picture-hat; Mrs. Henry Bolte (wife of
the Premier), wearing a white silk frock
patterned in green flowers ; Mrs. Angus
Jones, her attractive white straw boater
laden with pink roses ; and Mrs. Douglas
Candy (wife of the Air-Marshal), her
large black straw hat finished with a bow
of pale-blue satin on the crown.
SYDNEY
1 Nearly everyone seems to find the
design for the new opera-house “start-
ling,” so conversation has livened-up a
little, ifor it is good to startle from time
to time. Most people ftiink it very
beautiful, “like a yacht, a lovely ship, a
flower unfolding, an exotic seashell, a
poem, a symphony,’’ etc. Others have
likened it to a prehistoric monster, an
armadillo and' the Loch Ness monster.;
but they cannot have ever seen an arma-
dillo (which is a small rounded burrow-
ing animal) or the Loch Ness monster
(which, by all .accounts, is a kind of
serpent), or even a prehistoric monster,
which, so far as one can remember, is
all bones.
The only fault, one can find about the
design is that it seems to necessitate a lot
of walking. Pedestrians enter by a stair-
way to the restaurant on the first-floor,
while buses, etc., deposit their passengers
under cover beneath the steps. These
people then make tfieir way by other
stairways to the entrance-foyer, slightly
higher than the restaurant. Then they
all walk along the building past the stages,
to the auditoria. One would have to be
in good nick, certainly. But, then, there
is a restaurant at one end, a liquor-bar
at the other, and refreshment for the
mind and soul within the halls, so per-
haps we will all be able to manage the
hike.
The engagement of Jan Wilson, Moon-
amby, Mudgee, to Tim Baillieu, of
Tongy, Cassilis, was recently announced.
Jan is the daughter of the late Mr.
R. F. Wilson, of Moonamby, Mudgee, and
of Mrs. A. K. A. Gilkes, of Greenwich,
and Tim is the son of Mr., and Mrs.
T. L. Baillieu, who entertained with Cock-
tails at their home at Darling Point in
honor of their son and his fiancee.
Photo by Norton Trevaire.
Reflections prompted by the news that
the Russians have just issued their first
book of etiquette since 1917:
And J never ask soldiers to sit on the
sofa
(Though 1 don’t really see any harm in it).
I noiselessly stir in the sugar,
And l know it would only cause strife
To bite off the end from the loaf of bread
Or “gesticulate with a knife.”.
So it seems to be U or Non-U
And to know exactly what’s fitting,
Depends not what you may say or do
But on where you chance to be sitting.
* V V
Elegant simplicity marked the dresses
of the wedding-party when English girl
Jenifer Crooks married lon Macarthur-
Onslow at St. John’s Church, Camden, on
Saturday. The bride’s dress of white
faille had an Empire-line, an oval-neck-
line and threequarter-length sleeves. Her
short veil was caught at the back by an
heirloom circlet of diamonds. Matron-
of-honor Mrs. James Russell (Carngham,
Vic.), and bridesmaid Pamela Macarthur-
Onslow, with eight-year-old flower-girl
Anne .Stanham, wore unadorned ballet-
length dresses of white organdie, and
carried sheafs of lilies. The bridegroom
was attended by Frank Langley and John
Sweeney.
The reception for 120 guests was held
at Camden Park, the home of the bride-
groom’s uncle and aunt, Sir Reginald
Stanham and Lady Stanham. Tfye bride,
who was given away by Sir Arthur
Stephenson, is the elder daughter of Mr.
James Crooks, F.R.C.S., of London, and
Mrs. E. Montlake, of London. The
bridegroom is the eldest son of Major-
General Denzil Macarthur-Onslow, and
Mrs. E. C. Macarthur-Onslow, of Dum-
friesshire,. Scotland.
-V V #
Biggest cocktail-party of the week was
given to welcome the new Monterey,
which arrived on her maiden voyage from
America. Hosts were Mr. and Mrs.
Harry Johnson (he is the Matson Line’s
general-manager for Australia), the com-
pany’s vice-president (Captain T. E.
Rowe), and, of course, the captain of
the ship, M. C. Stone. The Monterey
is air-conditioned, and seems to have
everything to make travel comfortable.
Noticed among the 300 guests were
Transport Minister Enticknap, with Mrs.
Enticknap, and Railways Commissioner
Neil McCusker, with Mrs. McCusker.
Perhaps they took some mental notes,
and the Mudgee Mail will shortly blossom
forth with the latest in American interior
decoration. You never know.
☆ ☆ ☆
One of the early season’s parties was
that given by Mrs. Harry Twigden, of
Manly, to about 50 of her friends at the
Royal Empire Society’s rooms during the
week. Music was supplied by Mrs. Alec
McCartney (well known as contralto
Violet Semple), and by Ronald Neill,
who recently returned to Sydney after
two years’ study abroad. Among the
guests were Lady McLaren, Lady Bissett,
Mrs. Herman Slade, Mrs. Victor Bell,
Mrs. Robert Elvy, Mrs. George Bassett,
and Mrs. Louis Scott, a former Mel-
bournite who has made Sydney her home
since her marriage at the end of last year.
☆ ☆ ☆
It is always so hard to find something
to give to the mere male for Christmas
and birthday presents, so it’s interesting
to hear what the Americans suggest.
Something novel is a nightshirt—jand, if
he is still a little boy, he has an old-
fashioned night-cap to match. This is'
the newest fashion. Another suggestion
is a gold toothpick in a pigskin-case
“for the man who has everything”
(including his teeth, apparently). Another
innovation is a little motor-car for going
round the golf-course, two-and-a-half
horse-poWer, 36 holes to the gallon. It
isn’t explained whether you have to get
out of it to drive-off.
Last year, when checking Miss Mitford's
list
(Was / aristocratic or not?)
/ found l said “I beg your pardon ?”
Where upper-class people said "What?”
And at whist (not upper-class piquet)
My "jack,” not my "knave,” took the
trick,
And now and again l was "ill” on the
train,
When l should have been "sick.”
I spoke of the Scotch as the Scottish
( That’s not in the Mitford class),
And / sometimes referred to a "mirror”
(What l meant was a "looking-glass”).
So I came to the sad conclusion
(No doubt you would all agree)
That the difference between V and
NonrU,
Was the difference between U and me !
But this week / read that the Russians
Have a new kind of etiquette-book,
And, judging myself by its standards,
l really take on a "U-look.”
For / never drink tea from my saucer,
Though the liquid is so much less warm
in it; ,
CANBERRA
When the acting High Commissioner
for Canada, Mr. D. M. Cornett, opened
an exhibition of Canadian handcrafts at
8 Riverside, Canberra, he said Canadian
handcrafts hadn't yet reached the stage
of being mass-produced except in the
province of Quebec, where handcrafts
were emerging from the ‘.‘folk” stage
under the expert guidance of Monsieur
Paul Guoin. Among the exhibits were
hand-beaded leather moccasins and color-
ful embroidered gloves made by the
Canadian West Coast Indians ; also some
interesting statuettes carved in ivory by
the Eskimos. >
The exhibition has been arranged in
association with the Canberra Alt Club,
and will be open until February 10.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AH Clapses Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
i Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Chantry.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Se.,
Headmaster.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOMS
osumjyax
!ACSrt
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating'
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
head office and factories
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New Tort
LETTERPRESS AND OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPB
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS. EMBOSSRRS
PHOTO PROCESS BNGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : 1 PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICB EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL," BRISBANE
SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Sydney’s Opera Hotise
Apart from historical associ-
ations, Benelong Point on Syd-
ney Harbor is ipost notable as a
parking-place for the city’s
harassed motorists, as the site of
a vast barn where the trams go
to bed, and as the place from
which the more adventurous,
members of The Bulletin staff
put out in such worthy craft as
the Mariana and Sea Angler to
search the seas outside the Heads
for morwong and snapper.
Since Mr. Joem Utzon, of
Hellebaek, Denmark, has won
the N. S. Wales Government’s
world-wide competition (and
£5000) for a design for an opera-
house to be built on Benelong,
however, it appears that the
point is likely to become more
famous as the site of “this
armadillo in concrete,” “a dis-
integrating circus-tent in a gale,”
or “a large and lovely ship of
the imagination sailing on winds
of inspiration”—to quote a
selection of the more moderate
opinions from the corre-
spondence columns of the daily
press. '
There appears to be little or
no criticism of Mr. Utzon’s
design on technical grounds or
as to its _ suitability for the
purpose intended —indeed, from
published descriptions the
interior sounds ,-superb.- The
objectors and enthusiasts are
fighting it out on aesthetic
grounds* and there, of course,
they can fight till the cows come
home or the opera-house is
built, whichever is the sooner,
to the general benefit of the
community at large—it would be
a dull day indeed if aesthetic
tastes in anything from blondes
and beer to opera-houses were
ever brought to standardised
agreement.
The majority of the objectors
appear to believe that beauty
must follow traditional lines,
while most of the supporters
seem convinced that- anything
“new” or “exciting” is beautiful.
Both, of course, are on very
insecure ground, and, really, only
posterity can settle their
argument for them.. The
decisions of that venerable critic
can neither be hastened nor
anticipated ; and, of course, the
present cannot wait on them.
Meanwhile, it should be
remembered that plans and
drawings, and particularly news-
paper reproductions of them,
can rarely convey the full mean-
ing of an architect's idea—only
the- finished building does that.
From a first glance at Mr.
Utzon’s design, the Scandinavian
influence suggests' that it might
be more appropriately and
beautifully—cradled by massive
hills on the edge of some
Norwegian fiord than by the
conglomerate architecture of
Circular Quay. But, after all,
why shouldn’t Sydney have it?
It is not without beauty of line,
and its basic solidity topped by
a roof of flaring, white shell-
vaults would certainly be a
stimulating relief from the scab
of orange tiles and red bricks
with which unimaginative
generations of architecture have
surrounded Sydney Harbor.
Whether Sydney will get it, of
course, is another matter.
Certainly the city and other
Australian cities —could do with
better than the existing facilities
for concert, opera, ballet and
so forth. They could, obviously,
also do with better hospitals,
transport-services and a hundred
and one other improvements.
The Chair of Australian Litera-
ture Fund is scratching hard and,
despite the Elizabethan Theatre,
the stage is struggling for
support. Still, the evidence is
that music-lovers predominate
among the paying customers, and
if the opera-house eventuates,
here’s praying they will go on
paying. -
The estimated cost of the
building is £3x million, and a
public appeal for funds is to
be launched. It is hoped that
the Federal Government, the
A.B.C. and the Sydney City
Council will kick the tin, and the
N. S. Wales Government has
been named as a contributor.
Premier Cahill has added warily
that his State’s competition was
“for a national opera-house. In
other words, it was thought that
the project would be of a
national rather than a- parochial
or State-wide significance.”
It remains for Mr. Cahill to
take the hat around in MeL
bourne on behalf of Sydney’s
opera-house.
In the meantime it can only
be hoped that controversy over
the design will rage unabated,
that someone will devise a
means of discouraging pigeons
and seagulls from anointing the
pristine whiteness of the roof,
and that the comings and goings
of the Mariana and Sea Angler
will not be interfered with, opera-
house or riot.
* *
“The Prisoner”
Although it names no names,
Bridget Boland’s play (Inde-
pendent, North Sydney) is so
obviously concerned with a
Roman Catholic cardinal and his
Communist interrogator that it
is difficult to see why she
bothered to be vague about their
identities. In fact, the play might
have gathered even more strength
had she come straight out and
identified them.
Not that it isn’t an exception-
ally powerful drama as it stands,
with its story of a modern
inquisitor a specialist in
forensic medicine and criminal
psychology—relentlessly reduc-
ing a man of high faith to a
gibbering sense of guilt and an
anxiety to confess to everything
and anything.
It is skilfully, if a little glibly,
depicted, this business of destroy-
ing a man’s mind without laying
a finger on him ; of gently but
insistently probing to discover
one smouldering ember of guilt
in his whole make-up, and then
relentlessly tearing him apart
with it. And it was just as skilful
—and just as glib—on the
author’s part to have the prisoner
find a truer and stronger faith
out of his experience, and the
interrogator, an aristocrat
turned Communist, have his
fastidious mind revolt against
what he has done and lose faith
in his own materialist philo-
sophy.
Still, despite its made-to-
measure psychology, it is a con-
vincing and moving play, and
Peter O’Shaughnessy’s produc-
tion is swift and intense —if one
would have liked the agony of
the world outside the prison to
have impinged a little more
strongly on the drama, it is diffi-
cult to see how he could have
done it.
O’Shaughnessy also plays the
Cardinal, and although he could
have drawn a colder curtain of
pride and reserve across the
character in the opening
moments, from there on h,e
and Owen Weingott, as the
Interrogator, played a cat-and-
mouse game that was as
fascinating to watch as it was
magnificently acted. -
Gordon Glenwright's phleg-
matic, philosophising warder was
similarly distinguished.
♦> <s► £♦
“The Yeomen of the Guard”
Gilbert’s well-balanced mix-
ture of comedy and drama,
allied to some of the best of
Sullivan’s music, makes this one
of the most attractive, as well as
the weightiest, of the Savoy
operas. And it gives the male
head of the comedy-department
the only chance he gets in all
Gilsullivan to display his
dramatic wares.
The Firm’s production at
Sydney Empire (a theatre
notoriously unkind to singers
whose voices lack plenty of
resonance) took a while to
warm-up ; not until the strolling
players arrived were spontaneity
and vitality infused into the
doings.
Grahame .Clifford’s comedy-
work, as Jack Point, was over-
shadowed by that of Richard
Watson, as Shadbolt, a capital
piece of characterisation in
which the ponderous jailer-and-
assistant-tormentor was the very
antithesis of the v “mad wag” he
proclaimed himself. As the
broken-hearted jester, Clifford
gave the authentic touch of near-
tragedy to the final few
minutes.
Muriel Brunskill’s excellent
-speaking voice was again in
difficulties when pitted against
the orchestra. Too many of the
words of “When Our Gallant
Norman Foes” were lost,
although she gave a fine stir to
the lilting refrain, “The Screw
May Twist,” in which the chorus
of handsomely dressed Yeorrten
gave her full-bodied support.
Apart from her work in the
big duet, “I Have a Song to
Sing-O,” Helen Roberts was
vocally unimpressive, the harsh
edge of her top notes being
conspicuous when in full cry.
Jane Martin’s Phoebe was always
pert and lively.
Terence O’Donoghue was
inclined to bring the role of
Fairfax down to musicomedy
standard, but he sang the two
philosophical songs, “Is Life a
Boon?” and “Free from His
Fetters Grim,” well enough.
Eric Thornton wore an easy
authority as the Lieutenant of
the Tower, and Richard Walker
was a satisfactory Sergeant
Meryll.
The two splendid quartets,
“When a • Wooer Goes A-
Wooing” and “Strange Adven-
ture,” were marked by most
effective diminuendo control,
and the combined work of
orchestra and chorus in the
finale to Act I, when the heads-
man appears—this dirge, with its
tolling accompaniment, is among
Sullivan’s most inspired pages—
was one of the highlights of the
night.
♦> ❖ *
“Bell-boy Blue”
In his new musical two-acter,
given its premiere by North
Sydney’s St. Augustine Players,
John Sullivan, who also wrote
the # script and easily-flowing
lyrics, proves that his flair for
producing listenable melodies
has some lasting quality—if any-
thing, the tunes in this are an
improvement on his earlier effort,
“Miss Harding Regrets.”
Mr. Sullivan might turn with
profit to the modern Australian
setting—this play could easily
have been set on, say, Queens-
land’s Gold Coast, and the
atmosphere and settings would
have been more authentic and
easier on the eye than the drab
fashions of 47 years ago.
The. comedy, too, could be
improved: a big, slow-spoken
hotel - commissionaire (Clarrie
Nommensen) and a voluble chef
(George Galieh) are not suffi-
ciently exploited for v their
potential comedy.
The plot—son of a company-
director gets a job as bell-hop
in one of his father’s hotels to
check, on its running and falls
for the manager’s spirited
daughter—hangs together quite
well, and, as the daughter, Helen
Trevillian has an attractive stage-
presence and a lightweight but
effective soprano. Bill Doughty
was a manly bell-hop, though
not sufficiently relaxed. John
Sullivan dispensed harassment
and fussiness as the manager,
and Diana Chambers was
suitably forceful as a wealthy
spinster used to getting her own
way.
Talkies
“The March Hare” (Sydney
Esquire): Exactly one second
after the Hibernian hero (Dennis
Morgan) is made a gift of a few-
days-old colt everybody in the
audience knows that it will
eventually win the Derby by
half-a-nose and so rehabilitate
the wilted fortunes of its owner.
And so it comes to pass. Peggy
Cummins supplies the heart-
interest.
“The Toy Tiger” (Sydney
Lyceum): Heavily sentimental
story about a small boy (Tim
Hovey) who, when his career-
woman widow-mother puts him
in a school for nice young
gentlemen, “adopts” a bachelor
who turns out to be the career-
woman’s chief executive in the
business of which she is vice-
president. With Laraine Day and
Jeff Chandler.
“Under the Caribbean” (Syd-
ney Paris): Once again Hans
Hass and his wife take their
cameras and searchlights deep
under the ocean to record some
fascinating glimpses of marine-
life. Highlight is a series of
close-ups of a huge whale.
“The * Proud an,d Profane”
(Sydney Prince Edward): Pacific
war-drama with Colonel William
Holden exercising his amorous
wiles on Red Cross worker
Deborah Kerr, who still can’t
help lovin’ that man even when
she finds out from someone else
that he has a wife. His wounding
coincides with tidings of his
worthless wife’s timely death.
Smoothly worked-out, with com-
petent acting, including a neat
character - study by Thelma
Ritter.


The Question
By COLIN MANN
BENNY’S eyes had lit up
four floors and a lift-
journey higher. They were
still bright as he pushed
open the swing-door and walked
into the night. Everything was
all right.
He passed a group of nurses
and they were laughing, hurrying
on duty. For some reason they
made his eyes go misty and he
had to wipe his glasses as he
walked out the hospital gates
and into the street. He stopped
for a moment to look back up
at the lighted fQurth-floor
windows. He thought he saw a
brown suit. That would be the
doctor, still there, the doctor
with the stethoscope that had
white leads and a flat, chrome,
circular knob for sounding.
Benny knew it very well because
he had stared at it hard when
the doctor spoke to him by the
bed.
He knew the doctor had
thick shaggy eyebrows and very
deep brown eyes, for he had
looked up into them as the
doctor was saying she would be
all right.
“Close, very close,” the
doctor had said. “But she’s
strong. She’s left that all
behind her now. She’s out of
the woods, Mr. McLeod.”
She had to have a holiday.
That was a must, the doctor said.
Six weeks, right away on her
own. Then he would give her a
check-up.
“I’m sure she’ll be fine then,”
he had said.
Benny let the trams pass. He
felt like walking. He started
out on the mile that would take
him to the shopping-centre near
his home. He’d wake the kids and
tell them as soon as he got home.
They were part-prepared for a
very different kind of news.
They had accepted the fact that
she might not be coming home
again.
But Benny, telling them, had
not been atle to accept it
himself, and when he heard
eight-year-old Janet saying she
would get the breakfasts and the
others could do the washings, he
stood looking at himself in the
mirror with the tie still in his
hand, for a long, long while.
And now everything was all right
—well, nearly. It was going to
cost money. Benny thought
about that.
TTE didn’t notice the man until
he stepped out of the shop
doorway and stood in his path.
He was shorter than Benny,
stocky, and grubby-looking. He
stood there waiting for Benny
to come up to him.
Then he said: “Excuse me,
but can you lend me a couple
of bob? I'm a bit short of the
fare. I hate to worry you like
this. . .”
He stood watching Benny’s
hand go down into his pocket
and come out again with the
money.
“Thanks very much,” said the
man. “You know, you remind
me of someone. Were you ever
at Gosford? A carrier? Red
and cream truck?”
“Would you mind getting out
of my way?” said Benny. “I
don't want to talk. I’m in a
hurry.”
“Sure,’’ said the man. “Sure.
On your way. If you don’t want
to talk I won’t keep you. But
thanks.”
Benny pulled his hand back
out of the grubby man’s grip
and walked on.
He had gone about 200 yards
and was turning a corner when
it occurred to him to pat his
chest, and then he knew the
grubby man had his wallet.
Benny turned and ran back and
saw the grubby man going like
a hare through the shopping-
centre, turning down the street
that led to the highway. Benny
didn’t yell. He pounded after
the man, closing on him.
The taxi was just moving off
when Benny got to the highway
and then he yelled: ‘-‘Hold it,
driver! Pull over! ”
The driver hit his brakes,
expecting the law. He didn’t say
a word when Benny wrenched
open the rear door and pulled
the grubby man out on to the
footpath.
“First, I want the wallet,” said
Benny.
“Don’t be an idiot,” said the
man. “I chucked it to', my
cobber. He’s gone a mile by
now.”
“Right. We’ll go •to the
police,” said Benny.
He pushed he man back into
the cab and got in beside him.
He told the driver to hea<J for
the station.
They swerved around in the
street and were taking up speed
when the grubby man made his
offer. He spoke quietly so that
only Benny would hear.
“I can’t go there, mate,” he
said. “I’ve got a record. I’d get
jail for sure. Look here, you
come up to where I live and I’ll
give you whatever was in yopr
wallet and we’ll call it a night.
When I see my mate I’ll get
your wallet and we’ll send it
back to you. What about that?
How much did you have in it?”
“Two weeks’ pay,” said
Beatty. “Forty-quid.”
“I’ve got that much at *ny
place,” said the grubby man.
“You don’t want to send a
man to jail. Give us a chance.”
Benny thought about it. He
wasn’t sure; he wondered about
evidence, like his wallet, if the
police found it. He wasn’t sure
—did they hang on to it until the
case came up? They might
impound it and giv« him a
receipt. And it would probably
be empty when they found it.
Benny nodded at the little
grubby man.
“All right,” he said, “but
watch it.”
The man told the driver the
new destination and the
driver looked in his mirror.
“O.K. We don’t go to the
police-station. We want to go
somewhere else. Now are
you two sure you want to go
where you’re going now?
’Cause if you’re not I’ll stop at
the garage and fill-up with petrdl
and then you can go any place
you like. Just so long as you
make your minds up. What a
putrid way to earn a living,”
“You get paid for it,” said
the little man.
“Yair, but it’s very-confusing.”
AS they stopped at the address
the man had given, Benny
leaned forward and told the
driver quietly: “I want you to
wait. Give me five minutes. 'lf
I’m not back by then, high-tail
it to the police.”
“0.K.,” said the driver. “I
catch* on.”
Benny followed the little man
out of the cab, through a
splintered gateway and up a
flight of rickety wooden steps
at the side of the building. The
man opened the door and led
Benny into his room, over to a
chest-of-drawers.
The man took out a pair of
rolled-up socks, undid them and
from the toe of one removed a
wad of money.
He counted off some of the
notes.
“Forty,” he said. “And one
for the cab. And don’t woriy
about your wallet. I’ll get it back
to you. Where’s your joint?”
Benny scribbled out on a piece
of paper the name and address
of the firm he worked for. He
wasn’t telling this man where his
home was.
“Just send it along there,
registered,” said Benny.
“Sorry about everything,”
said the man as Benny was
leaving the room.
“That’s all right,” Benny said.
“See you in church.”
As he went back down the
rickety stairs Benny heard the
man’s door slam shut. Benny
got into the cab again.
“Everything 0.K.?” asked
the driver.
“Yes, everything’s fine,” said
Benny.
“Where to now?”
“The police-station.”
'T'HREE days later, and Benny
A was very tired. He stodd
up from his desk and stretched
himself. He looked up at the
clock: five-to-one; so he went
out to the washroom and tidied
up for his lunch-break. A couple
of beers might do the trick.
As it was he was just about
done. Getting the kids off to
school, racing through the work
to finish in time to cook dinner
for them, put them to bed, off
to the hospital, try to straighten
the house a bit when he got
home again.
But it would be better now
with Betty’s sister coming to look
after the kids. ' Claudia had
asked if she could bring Fred
over and they would stay in
while Betty was in hospital and
having the holiday after. Well,
that would take care of one
worry. The others might sort
themselves out too.
Bertny put on his coat and
walked out for the lift. A few
minutes later Hazel put a middy
of new beer down in front of
him and Benny took a big gulp
and thought he felt an improve-
ment.
“Do you mind if I join you?
I want to talk to you.”
Benny looked at the stranger
beside him. The man was tall
and very thin with a grey streak
through his hair. He was well
dressed. His suit was navy-blue
with a pin-stripe. His shoes
gleamed like glass.
“What about?” said Benny.
He watched the man put a note
down on the ( bar and beckon
Hazel.
“You’re Mr. McLeod?” said
the man. *
Benny nodded.
“We have a mutual acquain-
tance,” said the man. “I’m the
last one of these.”
He passed Berlny his card:
“Lennod, Hark and Tomlinson.”
It said they w;ere solicitors.
“What can I do for you, Mr.
Tomlinson —here’s cheers.”
Benny raised the glass to the
man and watched him.
“It’s this mutual acquain-
tance,” said the solicitor. “He
took your wallet.”
Benny nodded, but said
nothing.
“We’re appearing for him. To
be precise, I am. You hurt his
feelings a bit, you know.”
“He hurt mine,” said Benny.
“I gave him two-bob and he
stole forty-quid.”
“I understand how you feel.
Perfectly. He doesn’t. He
doesn’t think it was very nice
of you to call the police after
he gave your money back.”
“I think I did the right thing,”
said Benny.
“Of course you did, man. I’m
not questioning that at all. I
understand it perfectly. I think
I also understand your motive for
doing what you did. You might
have just wanted to be sure you
got some money back. And if
the police find your wallet with
the money intact you get double
your money back, isn’t that so?
I don’t question that conduct at
all. No sensible person could.
But our mutual acquaintance
does. Do you know what’s likely
to happen to him?”
“I suppose he might go to
jail for a bit,” said Benny. “He
thought he might. It would
probably do him good.”
“I think you might be wrong
there, twice,” said the solicitor.
“If he goes to jail, it won’t be for
a bit —it’ll be for a very long
time. And I can tell you it
won’t do him any good.. He'll
be just that much worse when
he comes out than he is now.”
“That’s his fault if he goes to
jail, not mine,” said Benny.
The solicitor nodded.
“You’re right. I’m not criticis-
ing your actions a bit. You did
what any decent citizen, would
do. You may have used a little
more guile than some, but none
could fault what you did —no,
let me get them; they’re on
me.”
“Right,” said Benny, and he
waited.
WHEN the drinks came the
** solicitor said: “I’ve been
looking up my client’s past. I
find it’s always handy to know
what you’re up against. Some-
times they have poor memories
and you find yourself in court
listening to the prosecutor
rattling off a list as long as your
arm that you knew nothing
about.
“My client, unfortunately, has
a list of convictions even longer
than that. At 14 they caught him
with housebreaking implements.
This pickpocketing is a bit of a
throwback. He hasn’t been
caught for that since he was 1 fl-
it’s been mainly housebreaking,
shoplifting, betting; nothing
violent. He’s 42 now and he’s
spent 12 years of that in jail or
institutions. You can
why he feels a bit strongly
about being arrested again.”
FROM A CONVERSATION WITH MISS
JULIET S., AGED FIVE
The grass is as green as cut-lettuce or gherkin,
Like salad the grass is what it is like,
A nd Nebuchadnezzar was right in his fashion —
Why else would he be in that true book the Bible? —
To go on all fours and indulge in his passion
For simile, metaphor; poet’s assumption
Is true as the Gospel for any true man can
With two-wheels and willpower call himself bike.
And Juliet’s hair that is blonde as the daylight
Is sun to her father though daughter she be,
And Helen of Troy and her priggish young Paris —
Ignored by the Bible but true as the Gospel —
As moral as marriage though husbands embarrass,
Are bored in old Troy and are counting its towers;
A re young and as fresh as the fizzy-drink sunlight
That turns all the world to a light airy sea.
The fish in the trees are as bright as a birdsong.
Like coral the rocks are upbuilding to die.
Strange music there is. It’s the sea in the barley.
With voices the Bible will call Generations
Lamenting the passing of jewfish and charley
That turned to the sun and were turned into starlings
Indifferent as sunlight to groaning and cursing
As sure s of themselves as the sun of the sky.
The sky is a fire and world is a flower
The Greeks had a word for and Juliet knows
The sun is the farmer’s young red-headed terror
The Bible calls Judas and hangs from the tree-tops
To wait there and catch like a sudden bright mirror
The eye of a girl who believes that a marvel
Is all of the world and what it resembles,
Goes mushrooming singing and gathering hours
A nd tells the young sun she’s a long-living rose.
n.s.w.
RAY MATHEW.


INSURANCE j—for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, Ltd.
( Incorporated in the British Colony of Bong Kong.)
A British Office. ASSETS EXCEED £18,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone: BWBI3I (4 lines) W. J. C. PENNELL, Manager.
im
:<a
m
ivf:
( Two-in-One Power/
N&
I BMC
i
INDEPENDENT
POWER
TAKE-OFF
Gives YOU EXTRA
OPERATIONAL ADVANTAGES
THAT SAVE YOU MONEY
Now optional with new NUFFIELD UNIVERSAL
Two separately controlled clutches engage
Independent P.T.O. and Tractor Drives.
Nuffield (Australia) Pty. Ltd., Tractor Division,
Box 73, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me literature on the Nuffield Tractor
Range and Independent Power Take-off.
NAME 1
ADDRESS
Place X in square if for school project.
• Tractor may be stopped, started or moved into
any gear without interruption of Independent
P.T.O. operation. Pick-up balers, headers and
mowers will continue to operate when the tractor
is stationary.
• Depression of tractor clutch pedal stops tractor
but allows Independent P.T.O. to continue running,
permitting quick clearance of implements under
difficult conditions.
• Independent P.T.O. shaft'and, when necessary,
hydraulic pump may be run at constant speeds
regardless of tractor movement.
• Independent P.T.O. eliminates need for separate
power units on most driven implements.
' Models from £1,256/5/.
NUFFIELD)
TRACTORh 1 —
Sold and Serviced by Authorised Nuffield
Distributors and Dealers Everywhere
[NUFFIELD (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., A UNIT OF THE BRITISH MOTOR CORPORATION (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD
“They picked him up, did
they?” said Benny.
“Last night,” said the solicitor,
“for offensive behavior. That’s
merely a holding charge. Once
he’s identified they will give him
the graver charge.”
He looked straight at Benny
for a few moments and then
said: “Would you mind telling
me what you did when you went
to the station? You went
straight there after you left him,
I gather!”
Benny nodded. He could not
see anything wrong with telling
the man.
“I just went in and told the
station - sergeant what had
happened,” said Benny.
The solicitor smiled.
“No, let’s start again,” he said.
“Would you tell me the details?
Like, what station-sergeant, and
what you said and what he said
and what everybody did. You
don’t have to tell me any of
this, mind you, but I’ll put it
to you just th? same.”
Benny said: “Well, I don’t
know the sergeant’s name. He
was pretty short and slight for a
policeman. I told him I'd been
robbed of my wallet.
“I told him there was my
fortnight’s pay in it, forty
pounds.
“He got out a pad and asked
me what the circumstances were
and I told him where I was walk-
ing when this chap stopped me
and bit me for a couple of bob
and how I’d gone on a bit further
and found my wallet missing.
Then I said I had run back but
couldn’t find him.
“The sergeant called over a
plainclothes - man and said
‘Here’s one for you, Claud.’ I
think that was the name. I told
the story again to the plain-
clothes-man. He took me across
to a big street-map on the wall
and got me to pinpoint where
it happened.
“Then he asked me to describe
the bloke. When I finished he
asked me if I’d noticed the
man had a scar on his right ear,
but I hadn’t noticed that. Then
he got out a book with photos
of criminals in it and we ran
through it together. H*e picked
your client in five tries.”
“And you identified him from
the photo?”
“That’s right,” said Benny.
“Then what happened?”
“The plainclothes-man said
he'd make some inquiries. He
took my name and address and
asked me about the other things
I had in the wallet. I told him
about my driving-licence and
photos and train-ticket. He said
he’d get in touch with me when
they found the man. He said it
would only be a matter of time.”
“You could have taken them
straight back to my client's
house ; but you didn’t, because
that wouldn’t have agreed with
your story.”
“That’s right,” said Benny, his
voice a little sharper.
“Don’t worry,” said the
solicitor. “That’s your secret and
it will stay that way. If I told
anyone that, it wouldn’t help my
client and it wouldn’t help me.
Coming from my client no one
would believe it. Your word is a
lot better than his will ever be.
The police haven’t been near
you since?”
“No,” said Benny.
“So the sole identification at
this stage is a photo in the
Criminal Register.”
“If that’s what the book was,
that’s so,” said Benny.
“Right,” said the solicitor, “I
think you and I can talk
business.” He waved Benny’s
money away and bought another
round. Benny was deciding that
this had better be the last if he
was going to get any work done
that afternoon.
THE solicitor looked at him
quietly for a few moments
and then said: “How’s your
wife?”
Benny put his glass down.
“She’s ail right. How did you
know there was anything wrong
with her?”
The solicitor didn't answer the
question, but went on talking,
looking at the bubbles in his
glass.
“I’m glad she’s all right,” he
said. “It’s a mighty expensive
business, isn’t it?”
“How the hell do you know
about my wife?” said Benny
angrily.
“Don’t, my friend. Don’t act-
on like that. It’s part of my
job to find out things like that.
I’ve found out a lot about you.
I know where you live. I know
you have three children. After
you’ve paid the doctor and the
hospital your bank-account will
probably be a few pounds in the
red. You-don’t have a bolter’s
hope of finding that. I know
how much you draw a year. I
know you pretty well. I know
you’re broke. Now cool down.
Deal in facts, not your feelings.
What I’ve said is true, isn’t it?”
“What if I ani broke? What’s
that to do with you?”
“It might have a lot to do
with me. That depends on you.
You’re going to need money.
After an operation like that
your wife is going to need treat-
ment. Maybe a nursing-home or
something of that sort. I don’t
know. But she will need treat-
ment and that will cost you
money and you haven’t got any.
Now those are three facts, my
friend, and you’ve been worried
by them because they are facts.”
“Well?” said Benny.., “You
'tell me how to do it. You know
everything.”
“That’s simple,” said the
solicitor. “You do nothing. At
least, you just say ‘No’ at the
right time.”
“When?” said Benny.
“When the police put you in
front of a line-up and ask you
if you can recognise the man
who stole your wallet. You look
them over and say ‘No.’ ”
“That’s a bit hot,” said
Benny. “You’re asking me to do
something criminal. What if
I go to the police now and tell
them what you’ve asked me
to do?”
“I will rigorously deny it, and
I can’t see how that would help
your wife.”
“You’re blackmailing me,”
said Benny.
“I am not. You’re using the
wrong word. I may be exerting
a little leverage but I’m* certainly
not blackmailing you, my friend.
Do you think I’d be offering you
money if I could blackmail
you? If your conscience worries
you, think of this. Could you
be positive, beyond any doubt
whatever, that the man you’ll
see in the line-up was the man
who took your wallet? Wasn’t
it a dimly-lit street? Could you
be absolutely certain? Couldn’t
it be someone else who looked
exactly like him? You have to
be positive beyond any doubt.
Try that on your conscience.”
“How do I know I’ll get paid
anything if I do this?” said
Benny. “Besides, I’ve already
identified his photo.”
“That alone means nothing,”
said the solicitor. “On the
question of payment, immedi-
ately my client is free a registered
letter will be posted to you at
your home. If it doesn’t come
you can easily go to the police
again and tell them you were
mistaken in the line-Up. That’s
your guarantee.
“My guarantee about you not
talking of this little conversation
is your wife’s state of health.
That’s blunt. I’m sorry. But it’s
the truth. You and I are in each
other’s hands. It’s quite simple.
It will be worth £3OO to my
client not to be identified.”
“I want time to think about
it,” said Benny.
“Think about it certainly, but
please think quickly,” said the
solicitor, “because the. police
won’t be long in coming to take
you to the line-up. Yes, think
it over. We’ll leave it at that.
Do what you think best. But
whatever you do, don t think too
hardly of lawyers. There are
lots of ways of skinning a cat,
and we get paid to think of them.
I’ll leave you now. Goodbye,
Mr. McLeod.”
The lawyer walked out of the
bar. %
BENNY picked up his glass
and found it empty. He was
going to order a refill, but
changed his mind.
He went back to his office. At
his desk he stared at the
papers in front of him, but they
wouldn’t register. He was still
sitting there half-an-hour later
when Miss Miles came across
and leaned down. She had an
odd look on her face.
“There are two gentlemen
here asking for you. I think
they’re police,” she said.
Benny got up and went across
to the counter. One was Claud
from the night at the station.
He said to Benny: “Mr.
McLeod, - could you come with
us now and we’ll get you to
identify the man who stole your
wallet? We had a devil of a
job finding him for you.”
“I’ll just get my coat,” said
Benny.
In a little while he was climb-
ing into their powerful car and
then threading through the traffic.
He stared out the window, look-
ing back at them occasionally
as the two of them told him
stories about pickpockets. *
They said there weren’t as
many of them about nowadays.
Nearly a lost art, they said.
The man who took Benny’s
wallet was one of the old school.
So far they’d only charged him
with offensive behavior. But
once Benny had identified him
they’d fit him.
They drove down a laneway in
the heart of the city and into
the yard of the station. The
two detectives conducted Benny
.down a flight of stairs into a big
room.
“You can bring them out
now,” said one of the detectives
to a uniformed constable.
Benny watched the men
coming out on to the stage. They
were all shapes and sizes and
blinked in the bright lights
trained on their faces. Benny
followed the detectives up a
little flight of stairs on to the
stage.
The detective Claud said to
him: “Stop and have a good
look at each of them and when
you come to the man who took
your wallet tell us. .0.K.?”
Benny nodded and they started
walking slowly along the line.
FROM the corner of his eye
he noted that the man was
two away to the left. Benny was
thinking hard.
He took another step and the
man was one away from him,
and a nerve in Benny’s eyelid
was trembling.
Benny took one more step.


LOW's
Autobiography
SIR AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN,
(One of the 24 drawings of notabilities —David
Low himself among them —in Sir William
Rothensteins “Contemporaries: Portrait
Drawings,” published by Faber and Faber. In
conjunction with Low's caricature-version of
Sir Austen, an entertaining study of contrasting
techniques.)
On their election, Ramsay MacDonald and other members
of Britain’s first Labor Government took to tail-coats and
silk-hats, seen by David Low, with sardonic cartoonist-
detachment, as meaning that there had been no real change
in government. But other changes were being cooked-up,
to bring fascinating additions to Low’s gallery of
picturesque personalities.
12
JHE political wheels had been
turning. Taking the end-of-
Coalition election of 1922 as
just a trial spin, 1924 was my
first British general election.
I put other things aside and
threw myself into it.
The “Star” worked closely with
Liberal headquarters, and we arranged
that I would make at least one poster
per day for reproduction into bills, post-
cards and leaflets up and down the
country.
1 had this field practically to myself.
It was probably the last election-poster
campaign in Britain. The limitations
on candidates’ expenses since then have
made such features impossible on a
nation-wide scale.
There were comings and goings,
briefing-luncheons, smoke-filled rooms,
hole-and-corner plannings. Abstract
principles were of less account than party
strategy to these busirtessmen of politics ;
but 1 found something to admire in the
efficiency with which constituencies
could be graphed and results forecast
fairly accurately.
STANLEY BALDWIN was virtually
an unknown personality to thd
public, and he was handicapped by the
jealousies and resentments of many of
his followers, who did not relish being
put to the trouble of another election so
soon. The Tory managers had not yet
built him up as a “character” except for
a hint that he smoked an honest cherry-
wood-pipe and wore an honest bowler-
hat.
He overdid the “I-am-just-a-plain-
ordinary-man” routine almost to the
point of getting lost in-the crowd.
The election issues were still trade-
depression and unemployment. Baldwin
had an idea for a sovereign remedy—
tariffs —but his Right-wing diehard
supporters placed more reliance upon
identifying the Labor party with
Bolshevism and throwing a scare into the
electorate than upon their leader’s
involved calculations upon the possible
benefits of Imperial preference. The
unattached self-styled “first-class brains,”
Churchill, Birkenhead and Rothermere,
banked upon the Red Peril cry and the
appeal to snobbery, “Labor ' Unfit to
Rule.”
'TPHE grounds of controversy suited me
a well enough. I had never been one of
those who thought of the tariff issue in
ethical terms.
Free-trade or protection seemed to
me to involve questions of expediency,
not of absolute principles. I had advo-
cated tariffs in Australia, free-trade in
Britain. The conditions were vastly
different. Australia had a small popula-
tion. could feed itself, was struggling to
establish certain “strategic” industries.
Britain had a large population, couldn’t
iced itself, was heavily industrialised. For
Britain, the conditions for prosperous
free-trade still existed just around the
corner.
In this election the question narrowed
down to an argument about the price of
tinned fish. The logical evolution to
absurdity which is the essence , of
caricatural symbolism made it almost
inevitable that I should represent Baldwin
and his friends first as herrings, then as
sardines and finally as the Tinned Tadpole
Government.
In my contributions to the debate I
gave enough hard kndcks to warrant
getting some back. Some rough things
were said about my ‘'‘brutality” and
“coarseness,” especially in the con-
stituency of Epping, where thousands of*
my handbills flooded the place.
The Tory candidate, Winston Churchill,
made no complaint, however. I was
amused and charmed one iporning to
have a friendly letter from him wanting
to buy an original drawing.
Out went Baldwin, an event I celebrated
with a cartoon entitled “The Morning
After”—a funeral-procession headed by
Garvin, editor of the “Observer,” Bald-
win’s most candid friend, playing on a
tuba “The Funeral March of a Tinned
Salmon.”
In came Ramsay MacDonald and the
first Labor Government.
./
IjVTV fir-st cartoons of MacDonald were
altogether too optimistic. He would
swim the Channel to deal with Poincare!
He would destroy the barricade which
Lloyd George had had built across
Downing-street to keep off Irish assassins.
He would settle the wages question, the
unemployment question. He would
restore healthy trade-relations with the
Soviet Union.
Under the conditions, there was no
chance, of course, of a free run for
Socialist legislation. The first Labor
Government took 'bn the job for the
administrative experience. They were
dependent on the Liberals for a majority
in Parliament and they aimed at winning-
over Liberal votes to Labor in the
country.
Some modification of policies was
expected. But what was not expected
was that when Labor Ministers achieved
office they should turn into quite differ-
ent persons. They even changed in
appearance. The significant politics of
MacDonald’s first term as Prime Minister
were that he cut his hair, trimmed his
moustache, assumed a tail-coat and was
seen in a tall shiny silk-hat, symbol for
a generation past of the hated capitalist.
These happenings translated by me into
terms of caricature were seen by my
customers as a deplorable lapse into
tasteless personality on my part. But
the change in Ramsay's dress had in
reality a deep symbolic significance.
Continuity was to be observed. Sleep
soundly in your beds. O Middle Classes.
The harbingers of change, the party of
Revolution, might have defeated the
aristos, but the angle of approach to
the future would remain unchanged.
TTF the Labor leaders thought that going
on their Sunday-best behavior would
do them any good they were mistaken,
The anti-Labor tacticians laid their plans
accordingly.
When the election figures had beeh
announced there had been a sizeable
move by stoopids of the Tory party tail
to resist the popular will. They held
that .the King should press Baldwin and
Asquith to co-operate in “keeping Labor
out.” I
SIR AUSTEN
(In Low’s brilliant series of caricatures for which the “New
Statesmanrunning them as supplements, used the best
printing processes obtainable in London.)


That shrewdest of tacticians, Lord
Beaverbrook, knew a game worth two
of that. His newspaper, the “Daily
Express,” gained credit by suddenly
demanding “Fair Play for Labor.”
Beware the Greeks A carpet was laid
into 10 Downing-street for the Right
Honorable J. Ramsay MacDonald, M.P.
Thereupon the executioners proceeded at
MR. WILLIAM MORRIS HUGHES
(The best the photographer could make
of him.)
leisure to build a fire under Ramsay’s
coat-tails, and sat down with the match
to wait.
LABOR Ministers hardly had time
to get measured for their gold-
braided Court suits when they were out
again.
Their innocuous sojourn ended after
a general election which I distinguish
from other elections as The Disgraceful
Election. Popular elections have never
been completely free from chicanery, of
course, but this one was exceptional.
There were issues—unemployment, for
instance, and trade. There were legitimate
secondary issues—whether or not Russia
should be afforded an export-loan to
stimulate trade (“The Russian Loan”);
whether or not it was public policy to
prosecute for sedition an ex-soldier who
had had both his legs practically blown
off in the war (“The Campbell Case”);
whether the Prime Minister ought to
accept from a private friend (a biscuit-
manufacturer who subsequently turned-
up quite honorably in the honors-list)
the use of a motor-car to carry him
around on the nation’s business (since
the nation did not then supply one), or
whether he should travel by bus or under-
ground like aiiybody else (“The Biscuits
Car Question”).
In the event these issues were distorted,
pulped and attached as appendix to a
mysterious document subsequently held
by many creditable persons to be a
forgery, and the election was fought on
“Red” panic (“The Zinoviev Letter”).
HAD watched the manoeuvres with
curiosity, which turned to dismay at
the raw debauching of the democratic
process. Was this the way things were
done in Britain? This callous exploita-
tion of the common ignorance? This
treachery to the common cause of
enlightenment?
I retired to utter ten-thousand maledic-
tions in private and remained a space
to reflect. It was evident that in the
defence of democracy, so far as I wafc
concerned, there could be no quarter
against such unscrupulous villainy.
The crude contempt for the masses was
accurately judged. The mob had no
chance to use its brains against the
deliberate fomenting of a stampede. Mr.
Baldwin, now reunited to his erstwhile
caustic critics, was returned with an
adequate majority.
His predecessor, Ramsay MacDonald,
bad .assumed the Government under
conditions which forbade the policies he
had affirmed were essential for British
recovery. Stanley Baldwin now took
over, pledged not to apply the policies
he had affirmed were essential to British
recovery. Same mountain, different
mouse. One. had exchanged Ramsay
Baldwin for Stanley MacDonald, so to
speak.
It should be said, greatly to Baldwin’s
credit, that he was disgusted with the
venomous tactics of his colleagues,
especially since, sub rosa, his personal
friendship with Ramsay had already
begun.
Ramsay 'celebrated the change of
Government by presenting him with a
couple of my original drawings on the
event as a sweetener. I was glad of
it, and added my compliments. One of
the best features of our Democracy is
that one may leave one’s politics in the
cloakroom for a moment.
EN the interim of opposition, Baldwin
and his managers had been building up
his personality. From a comparative
nonentity he had now become a rounded,
recognisable character—honest, plain
man, literary associations but not too
clever, homely of face, pint o’ beer, pipe,
pigs. Farmer John Bull in person, in
fact.
Statesmen must advertise. Indeed it
is vital to the working of our modern
democracy that the persons of political
leaders be readily identifiable.
Cartoonists and caricaturists have their
use in creating or embellishing tags of
identity, a fact which is not lost on astute
politicians.
Winston Churchill, for an obvious
instance, deliberately advertised himself
in his early political days by wearing a
succession of unusual hats, and in later
years by always "carrying a cigar, foibles
which were eagerly used and improved
upon by the cartoonists, with his open
encouragement.
Since the inspiration of these tags is
frequently poetic imagination, political
analogy or plain prejudice, they are to
be accepted as faithful reflections of
truth with as much reserve as one
accepts the pictures on seed-packets.
More often than not they are clues to the
possibilities rather than the probabilities
of the subject’s character. Gladstone
never really wore the huge collars in
Harry Furniss’s caricatures. J. H. Thomas
did not invariably wear the dress-suit I
drew for him.
Neither are the creations of “subjects”
themselves any more reliable when they
become their own publicists along these
lines. The early Churchill wore normal
hats when the photographers were not
around; and in his later years it was
noticeable to keen eyes that his public
cigars were smoked never more than
about' one inch.
Likewise, all those within range knew
well enough that the pipe-and-pig-loving
Farmer Baldwin was a businessman in
the steel-industry who probably couldn’t
tell one pig from another, and by the
brown tint on his right forefinger
probably smoked cigarettes in private.
MY personal with the Tory
party were slight until I became
acquainted with two of its most improb-
able members.
Of all Government departments
engaged in holding off the imaginary
British Communist revolution, the Home
Office had to be the busiest office and
the Home Secretary the busiest body.
Sir William Joynson-Hicks (“Jix” for
short) was a spectacular success as “Red”-
hunter. He was in his element rushing
the, police around to seize sinister docu-
ments (including on one occasion a copy
of the Holy Bible) from some branch of
the then insignificant Communist party.
Most of the time he seemed to me, of
all Baldwin’s men, the most intolerant,
narrow-minded and dictatorial of anti-
democrats. Week by week I derided his
moments of triumph. While the Conserva-
tive popular press splashed dramatic
stories of the raid of Arcos, the offices
of the flabbergasted Russian trade-
delegation, to seize their “intelligence”-
files abotft British Life and Character, I
had him, over the title “The Empire
Saved,” in the midst of a rushing fprest
of police, personally bringing in the
prisoner, a miserable little pup.
I made him the subject of a meta-
morphosis from bloodhound to long-
eared ass. I drew him distorted with
rage, speeding parting deportees from
Britain’s shores with “Clear out! The
Government can drive the country to
Communism without your assistance.”
17 THOUGHT Jix’s throwing-out the
Russians was not the right way to go
about things, and that we would have
to go to all the trouble of getting them
back again, which, of course, we had.
Even had the delegation been com-
posed exclusively of dangerous profes-
sional spies, instead of merely including
two or three bungling amateurs, ,! would
still have been a singularly uncunning
proceeding. According to the accepted
technique of spy-handling, one deals with
the other fellow’s spies by keeping an eye
on them without their knowing it, not by
driving them out of sight.
I regretted, too, Jix’s attempts to censor
morals. He was a Home Secretary, not
a governess. In 1927 a public inquiry
into a case relating to the state of morals
in Hyde Park gave occasion for a cartoon
entitled “The Jix Family in Conference,”
which represented the inquiry being con-
ducted exclusively by members of the
Home Secretary’s family. There was a
vacant spot in one corner so I filled it up
. with a cat also bearing the family likeness.
A letter arrived from Jix:
Dear Low,
If ever that cat has kittens, send me one.
I’m sure it would be -an uncommonly good
mouser ~ . .
followed by an invitation to come along
to the Home Office if ever I wanted to,
bring my portrait of the writer up to
date.
JlX's vanity and giggling goodwill were
irresistible. I abhorred his politics, but
I liked him*and he liked me.
There he was at the Home Office with
heaps of reproductions of my blood-
hound cartoons of himself on his writing-
table, obviously put there for my benefit
(how transparently naive!).
I could see he had groomed himself
for my visit,,expecting me to make it a
“sitting.” The man evidently liked sitting
for his portrait.
I fell in with his inclination and gave
•him-the “works” —running the gamut of
his expressions so that I could note the
play of his facial muscles; getting him
up and walking him up and down the
room so that I could note his peculiarities
of dress and posture.
He posed, first miming a speech for
me, and then frozen with great dignity.
Jix was a joy to draw, with his small
(Continued on next page)
SAME “BILLY”
(Another sort of contrast. “Bulletin” caricatures —possibly the worst Low could do for him.)


lined face with the tiny snub nose. I had
come primed by some of my writing
friends with a few sensible comments on
his egregious efforts to censor Jiterature,
to slip in if opportunity arose. But what
could be done with a chap who insisted
that the object of respectable men of
letters in writing adult novels was
“L.S.D., which letters might stand for
‘Let’s Sell Dirt’ ”?
On this occasion the business of the
nation waited while we both enjoyed a
happy interlude, and the old Home Office
echoed to unaccustomed mirth.
TTIX was a queer mixture. He had a real
feeling for political democracy,
evidenced, for instance, in his gallant
championship of extending the vote to
women of twenty-one. But at the same
time his attitude to the electorate was
that of a nagging hen, self-appointed to
supervise the community for its own
good.
N.S.W. SUPREME COURT
(Justices Sly, Murray, Street and Gordon. Of this Bench, Philip Street
became N.S.W. Chief Justice and Lieut.-Governor, positions now held
by his elder son, Sir Kenneth Street.)
I met him often after that, always with
enjoyment. For years we exchanged
Christmas-presents regularly, I a little
drawing, he a box of cigars: “With best
wishes from your devoted assassin,
Low”: “With all good wishes from your
most loyal victim, Jix.”
“It is in most men’s power to be
agreeable,” said Swift, probably warning
his subconscious self to be on its guard
when he kept company with the persons
who were the raw material of his satire.
For what would happen to the art of the
satirist or the caricaturist who
surrendered to the personal charms of
his raw material? Must affection
emasculate ridicule, corrupt invective?
Despite all our friendliness, neither
Jix nor I thought it unnatural that I con-
tinued to mock him politically whenever
he seemed to need it.
I cannot flatter myself that it made
the slightest difference to him, except
superficially on one occasion. When the
elaborate portrait arising from his first
JUDGE REAL, OF QUEENSLAND
(Low has told of how he visited the various
States caricaturing for “The Bulletin.”)
“sitting” .at last appeared in print it dis-
played him in Napoleonic attitude, dressed
in the full glory of his habitual outfit as
the Compleat Statesman, Victorian
vintage, with choker collar and silk-faced
frock-coat. A fortnight later—sensation
in the House (Oh! Oh! ... Hear!
Hear!) when a transformed Jix entered
in a gay new brown lounge-suit in the
latest style, with tinted handkerchief, gay
buttonhole-posy and all.
The Victorian statesman had vanished
for ever. A footnote was added to
history.
When in the fullness of time Jix died
I gloomed for a man who, if mistaken,
was at the same time honest and could be
gay. -
T7T had been an odd amity. Odd, too,
was the personal harmony I found in
another unlikely „ subject, Austen
Chamberlain.
The very apotheosis of English starchy
stiffness, I had thought.
A mutual friend had arranged an inter-
view. It was just after the Locarno Pact
and the Foreign Secretary was said to be
in a good mood. Halfway down the
spacious room at the Foreign Office;
was a table upon which rested the silk-
hat and the yellow gloves. In the distance
stood what I thought at first was a
statue.
“I have been asking myself how I
should receive you,” it said, showing
minute signs of life.
“Well then, don’t receive me at all.
Pretend I am not here,” I said.
“Must I wear my monocle? I cannot
See to read with it very well . . .”
“Yes, you should wear your monocle.”
It was a valuable tag of identity so far
as I was concerned. Whereupon Sir
Austen sat down and went on with his
shuffling of papers, all the time troubled
with short-sighted monocle, and acutely
nervous, shaky-handed, at my peering.
I tried to put him through the drill
necessary to my purpose. Too much on
guard against “liberties.” Stiff as a
poker, i
For heaven’s sake break down, I
shouted silently. I exercised all the
technique I knew. I charmed and I
provoked. No good. Only when I talked
about his father did he melt a little.
ADRIAN KNOX
(Adrian Knox, K.G., when Low
sketched him addressing the Court
in 1914; he succeeded Griffith as
Chief Justice. A racing man, he
was chairman of the A.J.C. and
won the Sydney Cup with Vavasor
in 1910.)
AUSTRALIAN HIGH COURT BENCH
As viewed for “The Bulletin’ by Low in 1912: Justices Barton (Sir
Edmund; first Prime Minister of Australia); Griffith (Sir Samuel; Chief
Justice); and O’Connor (Richard Edward O’Connor, an N.S.W. Senator
in the first Federal Parliament).
•%
After all my trouble, I left with only his
shell.
SOME weeks later I found myself
placed next to him at d Savage Club
concert. In the free-and-easy atmosphere
he loosened-up. We talked of everything,
beginning with Art and ending with the
Meaning of Life.
Some of his remarks were so out of
character that I was astonished. When
one of the performers cracked a joke—
very decorous —at his expense, he
laughed heartily. This was a different
Austen, so much so that I remarked on it.
“I had you pretty wrong the other
day,” I said. “I thought you were sensitive
about being drawn. I had no idea you
were so —ah—understanding.”
This seemed to please him no end. He
protested that if he had ever had any
sensitiveness about his appearance it had
faded when he saw himself on the films.
Was horrified. Saw a lean, stiff, shirty
person appear on the screen delivering
the commentary upon the King George,
V Jubilee film. Said to wife: “Great
Heavens, is that
me?” Thought the
sight of people’s real
appearance to them-
selves must first
produce disquiet fol-
lowed by an adjust-
ment of their inner
selves.
Here, I said to
myself, we have a
genial soul trying to
escape an uncon-
genial character im-
posed on him by
public life.
“It is the pattern,”
I said. “All Foreign
Secretaries look like
that. If you will
permit me I could
suggest an improve-
ment. You should
smile more.”
Thereafter, when-
ever I encountered
Austen Chamberlain, the Savage Club
version was always at hand (except on
one occasion which I shall narrate in
its proper place). ,
As encouragement I ran him in the
paper for a while as a human chap with
a smiling mouthful of teeth. I heard
that the Foreign Office considered the
original solemn version was better for
POPE COOPER, CJ.
(Sir Pope Alexander Cooper, Chief
Justice of Queensland, and the State’s
Attorney-General.)
business, but after all the Foreign Office
is not everybody.
EN the comparative inactivity of politics,
opportunities occurred to improve my
acquaintance with Ramsay MacDonald.
On our first meeting he had been still
suffering from the disillusion of Lloyd
George’s Coupon Election. Ramsay,
having lost his Labor friends (who
blamed his confused attitude to the late
war for their failure), retired into a corner
to take a quiet think.
His confidence in democracy had
suffered a severe blow. He no longer—
if he had ever —believed that the Voice
of the People was the Voice of God. He
well knew there was no equality of
intellect. Painful associations had
fomented a barely concealed hatred and
contempt for those who went about
buttering-up the ignorant telling them
that knowledge was unnecessary, feelings
were enough; that leadership was
unnecessary and would “wither away”
and that the nincompoop would inherit
the earth.
HIGH COURT IN 1913
Justices Powers (first Solicitor-General for the
Commonwealth); Duffy (Sir Frank Gavan Duffy,
son of former Victorian Premier Charles Gavan
Duffy); and Rich (Sir George Rich, who was on
the High Court Bench till 1950).
Then there had been more than one
function at which he had used my
presence as excuse for humorous relief
and left-handed compliments in speeches.
So we came to be well enough acquainted
for me to be placed upon his list for
occasional hospitality at the House of
Commons —for example, to. lunch on
a spring day in 1926.
THIS was one of the days when Ram-
say and his associates were out of
sorts with one another. The leader was
never one to hide his scorn for a
colleague who, in his opinion, merited it;
and naturally, the feeling, when
sufficiently apparent, was apt. to be
heartily reciprocated.
This was a bad day, it seemed. He
had asked three other people to lunch,
but they did not turn-up. As we went
along the corridor to the dining-room we
intercepted three others, but they excused
themselves.
Finally we collected McNeil Weir, his
grey-faced P.P.S., to make it a threesome,
but he left after the fish-course, leaving
us alone. Weir’s presence had given me
a vague discomfort, anyway, for I sensed
that he disliked the Prime Minister. Ram-
say had the atmosphere of loneliness and
I was drawn with sympathy. Ramsay
alone was simple and communicative.
While we were talking one of his recent
Cabinet'Ministers came and spoke into
his ear. As he went I said: “A hot tip ?
“Straight from the ass’s mouth,” said
Ramsay while the visitor was still in
earshot.
The conversation soon got aroupd to
how nobody was any good. The trouble


was not with the people outside but
more particularly with the members of
the party themselves. The party could
sweep the country at the next election
were it not for the party.
“I have a hard team to handle —terribly
hard —they are my masters,” he said,
fiercely chewing a mouthful of roast-
lamb as though it were a Clydeside Left-
winger.
WHAT should a cartoonist talk about
to a Prime Minister? I thought it
useful to bring up a few stock leading-
questions disguised as light conversation.
Q. What did he mean by Socialism?
A. It was a spirit rather than a pro-
gramme.
Q. Did he perhaps, I don’t suppose,
maybe favor nationalisation of the means
of . . . etc., etc.?
A. Only when and where it was
necessary.
Q. Not in order to further a con-
structive pla.n for industry?
A. We must build on the past.
Q. Well then, has the Labor party an
innovating future or a reforming future?
A. We must develop innovations as
they accord with our past.
I liked not the words “develop” or
“accord.” To my mind Britain needed
a much bolder approach. I gathered that
the development and the accord might
take time. This wasn’t Socialism, this was
Liberal reform.
T 7 TOOK a good look at him sitting
“ there. He was certainly a fine figure
of a man with his square face, deep-set
brown eyes alternately kind and
tortured, and wavy hair. (He told me that
when at Balmoral Queen Mary had con-
gratulated him. on his “shingle.”)
Responsibility had left its mark on the
romantic rhetorician that had entranced
me at Paisley. He had become the very
model of a Front Bench Liberal Minister.
He would have looked at home sitting
between Gladstone and Morley.
I remembered that he had started his
political career as a would-be Radical
candidate. Why, then, was he the object
of such hatred and suspicion among the
“working-class” trade-union supporters of
the Labor party who were so evidently
Radical reformers themselves?
Coming from the equalitarian societies
of Australia and New Zealand it had
always surprised me that the British Labor
party had ever managed to convince
itself it was Socialistic. The Webbs and
the Fabians must have been very
persuasive.
Perhaps the spleen against MacDonald
was just because he was the only possible
leader.
THE conversation rambled into homely
channels, about a tree I had promised
to design for him so that he could turn
a damp patch on his dining-room wall
into a mural design ; and then came back
to his party difficulties.
He confided that his secret desire was
to return to authorship and write a novel
about “all this” “from the top.” My
professional nose scented an opportunity.
“Great! Why not?”
“Because it would be the end of me
here.” ■
“Well, leave it to be published when
you’re dead.”
“But then I couldn’t see the fireworks.”
Nevertheless the occasion ended with
serious talk about the possibility of his
writing his life and my illustrating it, his
own idea (with a little prompting from
me).
That would have been a grand book.
Alas, the nearest we got to it was when
McNeil Weir —the same grey-faced third--
party at that lunch —wrote it for him two
or three years after his death.
The Tragedy of Ramsay MacDonald
was a bitter book copiously illustrated by
reproductions of my cartoons, giving the
effect of a collaboration. An error of
judgment on my part in assenting too
readily to a suggestion misunderstood.
Too late to protest.
This was not the kind of book I had
wanted to do about Ramsay MacDonald.
SN 1926 Baldwin’s efforts to fit the post-
war generation into a pre-war suit of
clothes by main force were still not
succeeding. Seams were splitting and
patches giving way, exposing distressed
areas of the national economy. The most
notable achievement of the'time was the
so-called General Strike.
To see this event in its frame it must
be recalled that one of the worst spots
in the British economy was the coal-
mining-industry. A, Royal Commission
on Coal in 1919 had recommended
nationalisation. The diehards of the
Lory party, whose support was necessary
to Baldwin, sidestepped this suggested
interference with private enterprise. Had
not their friends the mine-owners the
only sensible formula for restoring
prosperity to the industry—i.e., longer
hours, shorter wages, no minimum wage
and (to prevent any ganging-up of
“agitators” who did not like it) no national
agreements?
The miners objected. Their standard of
living was alreaidy pitifully low. They
had been the most obstinate champions
of nationalisation. The mine-owners,
seizing their optimum moment, posted
lockout-notices and declared they would
not re-employ the men unless they agreed
in advance to wage-cuts. The entire trade-
union movement began to line-up in
sympathy with the miners. The Baldwin
JIX
(About whom Low is at his word-picturing best in this present
instalment. The caricature is, another from the “New
Statesman” series.)
Government, smelling trouble, persuaded
the mine-owners to hold off with a
subsidy.
But nine months later it was announced
the subsidy would end. The whole
situation came up again—but with
differences. Preparations were tomplete,
the coal-bins full. The miners asked
Baldwin to interfere again, but the Prime
Minister had become deaf in that ear.
What to do?
THE situation for months had bristled
with opportunities for the trade-union
leaders to display their talents for strategy
The legal lights on the opposite
page are typical specimens from
Low’s “Bulletin” days. While Low
might be said to have regarded
politicians as broad comedy, he
would seem to have had more of
a smiling regard for the wigged
profession.
and tactics. But‘there were deep differ-
ences between Right- and Left-wings as
to ultimate aims, and eventually, alas, as
though to demonstrate that the faith of
the “worker” is no substitute for the
cunning of the “intellectual” in political
generalship, simplicity and guilelessness
walked, with patched-up “Solidarity”
banners flying, into the trap. With
ominous creakings the General Council
together
. ;ir _ nnt „ u nnp The trade-
union leaders had no experience of such
a venture on this scale. Their case had
not been well publicised. They had made
no preparations, had no plans.
On the other hand the Government had
manoeuvred the situation nicely. They
v
had been signing-up young men for
“emergency services” from Six months
before. The greater part of public opinion
and the resources of the nation were
behind them. The trade-unions were now
where thefir opponents had wanted them,
in position to be given a holy drubbing.
To the eye of a cynical observer, it looked
likd a competent piece of “fixing.”
In an atmosphere electric with impend-
ing doom, Jix took the air to declaim that
the Government “might almost say they
were a Committee of Public Safety,”
conjuring up a picture of steadfast lion-
hearts guarding the menaced nation from
an onrush of bloodthirsty sans-culottes.
Had the menaced nation seen, as I had
just seen, the batch of scared trade-union
rabbits guttering up Downing-street,
hats in hands, to implore the Prime
Minister to make the mine-owners
negotiate, they would have appreciated
Jix’s egregious absurdity.
It was too much for me, and I drew
a cartoon which scandalised hysterical
readers who had been emoting them-
selves into the belief that this pathetic
farce was the beginning of a revolution
and that Ernie Bevin and Jimmy Thomas
were the British equivalent of Lenin and
Trotsky.
“That was a wicked cartoon, Low,”
said Lord Beaverbrook, who had evidently
been reading his own newspaper.
At zero-hour the General Strike fell
dead.
HHAD considered myself, coming.from
Australia, a seasoned hand in* rough
and tough politics, but the whole affair
shocked me.
This and The Disgraceful Election
before it left me aghast at the revelation
of how hypocritical were the “decencies”
of British political life, how bitter the
class-hatred from the top, how unscrupu-
lous could be the “gentlemen of
England,” how crude the prejudices of
the middle-classes that would never take
the trouble to learn the realities of their
corporate life until their own piffling
individual interests were touched.
»Most of all I was disgusted at the
whole clutter of jealousies, sordid
ambitions and idiotic suspicion of
“brains” that hampered trade-union and
Labor-party relations and had led to
this ludicrous fiasco. At such time one
is apt to forget the small minority of
noble selfless idealists who leaven the
whole and redeem the British character.
It seemed to me that the opportunity
for building a better, juster and more
stable Britain afforded by the weakening
of obstructive vested interests had now
finally slipped down the drain. The
inevitable would come about the hard
way, as usual.
FIVE years later on I sat at Transport
House talking to* Ernie Bevin about
the actors in this bad show.
Bevin had been the dynamic organiser
of the welter of suspicious factions into
unity. But he couldn’t organise the
miners. They wouldn’t stay organised.
He had had no confidence in the idea of
a general strike himself. His own big
idea was to build up the T.U.C. to the
point when such a thing would be
unnecessary.
“They couldn’t do that to me” “l
could never accept that.”
The frequent use of “I” and “me” was
characteristic of Ernie’s conversation.
Such a vital and forceful man just
naturally came to identify the whole
Labor movement with himself. (I heard
that Ernie was the original of the story
of the massive figure coming around
the corner with the light behind him
that so impressed a foreign visitor that
he stopped in affright ejaculating “Mon
Dieu!” “No,” said Ernie, and passed
on.)
He flashed a small black eye with
spleen when Jimmy Thomas’s name came
up. “As soon as Jimmy showed his nose
around the door I could see he had done
it to me.”
Thomas, it seemed, was the culprit
not for having got them into it, but for
having ignominiously got them out of it.
A couple of weeks later I happened
along at the N.U.R. office and talked
to Thomas on the same subject. He
evaded my hints with manifest embarrass-
ment. But, for all that, it seemed to me
he was the only sensible one in the bunch.
One lesson, at any rate, was rubbed
into the trade-unions. It is less trouble
to go through the door than to push
the walls down. Revolutionary strikes
don’t mix with political democracy.
Faith without brains doesn’t get you
very far in politics. After that the unions
paid more attention to getting their
representatives into Parliament and
making proper use of their political
powers.
THESE happenings gave my cartoons a
sharper edge. In the hour of crisis
Baldwin had made through the loud-
speaker his famous “Can’t You Trust
Me?” speech, and with this as a general
theme I followed faithfully ,the imple-
mentation of the trust as events unfolded.
True, whether the miners trusted the
Prime Minister or not subsequently
became almost irrelevant, for he could
do nothing with his party diehards or the
coal- and mine-owners.
In due course the shining hour of
victory was improved by the passage of
measures designed to weaken the link
between the unions and the Labor party.
The miners went back with their
problems unsolved, and bitterness grew
in the pits for which succeeding genera-
tions have had to pay through the nose.
But continuity was preserved—and
there was plenty of sweet singing in the
London gutters by parties of abandoned
miners heralding the collapse of 1931.
C To be continued next week\


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
-
Write for our
50th Anniversary
Catalogue
G E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
CUARD
Ca^mtk
as
PROTECTA
SUnL-s ar|f HtgiitViZ+i^
Suitable for every type of business » r< T w l f*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts ete. Strongly huttl,
pleasing in appearance. Send for f«U details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DDttrlhurlng Arena—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Ply. Ltd.
Norman Bro*. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon Price Ltd.
. ' Docket Book Co. (Anal.)
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims
Directors. THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duetbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred 3. White; A. 0. Parker .
H. H. MOULTON, Mailing Director.
'Phone: BW 8861.
P. BURDON, Manager.
12# Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branch'* in all Stales.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Early autumn racing is now in
full swing in Melbourne, and on
Saturday the V.R.C. will stage
at Flemington the £2OOO w.-f.-a.
Lightning Stakes (five furlongs)
and the £2OOO w.-f.-a. Blarney
Stakes (If mile). Top-class
performers are due to figure in
both events, with horses owned
in Adelaide and Sydney challeng-
ing the best of the Melbourne
gallopers. Last year Apple Bay,
from Sydney, won the Lightning
Stakes from Kingster and
Matrice, and Rising Fast bagged
the Blarney Stakes, downing
Sailor’s Guide and Golden
Doubles. The previous season
Gay Vista, Sydney’s top sprinter,
won the Lightning Stakes.
Caulfield’s Oakleigh Plate
will be run on February 23.
Copper Year, from Adelaide,
and Gay Vista, from Sydney,
head the weights, with 9.7 each.
Adelina and New Spec, Rosehill
winners last Saturday, are
weighted for the Oakleigh. They
are a speedy pair.
At Caulfield on Saturday the
tote-double Count Paid ‘ and
Magic Apple paid £1334 for ss,
—5338 to 1. Previous best, since
doubles-tote betting was intro-
duced on Melbourne tracks in
October, 1955, was £798 at
Moonee Valley last April. Aus-
tralia’s record, £4315 18s. 9d.,
was paid at Warwick Farm on
March 6, 1954, the horses being
Finisterre and African Queen.
Consistent Golden Doubles —
successful at his three prior starts
—added the £2OOO C. F. Orr
Stakes to his winning-list at
Caulfield. He started second-
favorite to topnotcher Sailor’s
Guide, with Sir William the only
other one fancied. Golden
Doubles won by a neck from Sir
William, with Lord Gavin, who
also had won at his three prior
starts, third. It was Sailor’s
Guide’s first outing since
November 17, when he won the
Fisher .Plate at Flemington. His
condition will be improved by
the Caulfield run, and he should
soon ring up No, 1 once again.
Targui (Fr.), one of the few
sons #>f Djebel at the ' stud in
this part of the world, and a
well-performed (in France) pro-
duct of M. Boussac’s noted
establishment, is sire of Lord,
who has had three Melbourne
starts for two wins and a second
—a two-year-old with a particu-
larly bright future. From 22
barrier-position he cleared out
with Caulfield’s Sturt Handicap
for that age-group.
Sir Daniel McVey bred Magic
Apple, surprise winner of the
Second Chisholm Trial at .Caul-
field. Now a four-year-old, the
gelding is by Magic Bow (imp.),
a Blue Peter sire, and is from
Appalachian by Manitoba (imp.)
from Burnt Apple (imp.) by
Pommern. He was earlier trained
in Sydney, having his first
Victorian start at Hanging
Rock, where he won the Maiden
Plate five days before contesting
the Caulfield mile.
Practically given away by most
punters a while back as unsound,
two greys, El Carretero (Second
Parramatta Stakes) and Silver
Phantom (Welter), easily won
their races at Rosehill last Satur-
day causing one prominent race-
goer to remark: “When two
reputedly unsound greys can win
so easily, what’s wrong with the
others with four sound legs and
otherwise 100 per cent, fit?” El
Carretero hadn’t won a race for
close-on two years; he had,
however, indicated winning
prospects by finishing fourth at
Randwick to Moorakyle at his
previous outing, and he started
second-favorite. On the other
hand, Silver Phantom had won
" What’s it feel like to be ex-heavy "Weight champ .?”
at two of his previous four
starts, and so had the right form,
yet he eased sharply in betting,
to go out at 8 to 1.
Benefiting from recent racing,
in which she wasn’t far from the
winner, two-year-old filly Royal
Fable won the First Maiden
race for that age-group at Rose-
hill and ran record time, 55 1-10
sec., for the 4\ furlongs and
29yds. New Slipper, a very
speedy youngster two seasons
ago, previously held the race
record, 55|sec. Royal Fable is
from former smart mare Panto-
mime, who has thrown a number
of winners. In the race that
Royal Fable won Swas started at
3 to 1 on, an absurd figure for
a Maiden two-year-old contest.
Swas should benefit from the
run, her first since October.
Royal Fable certainly had the
wood on her, for condition.
In the race fall at Rosehill it
was surprising that jockeys W.
Gamer (Pacific Pact) and L. Poy
(Windsor Grey) escaped at all.
They were kicked along the
ground by other horses and were
badly shaken, sustaining severe
cuts about the head and body.
The ’ race (First Parramatta
Stakes) was easily won by the
pacemaker, New Spec, ridden by
W. Cook, a pasfmaster at riding
free-going gallopers. He
repeated the tactics on New
Spec’s stablemate, Woodland
Stream, irr the Auburn Stakes
later in the afternoon. Even at
the 2100gns. he cost as a year-
ling, New Spec has proved a
bargain for country owner Mrs.
W. R. Porter.
New Fairy didn’t take long to
win her first race for owner-
breeder Eric Stephenson. The
filly led all the way in Rose-
hill’s Second Two-year-old
Maiden, untroubled at any stage.
T. D. Brosnan trains her at
Randwick and sent her to the
post in top-class racing-trim,
though her only previous start
had been in the Gimcrack Stakes
last October, when she finished
fourth to a trio of speedsters,
Concert Star, Court Slipper and
Estrina. New Fairy is by
Newtown Wonder (imp.) from
Fairytime, and is ‘ the second
winner of her dam, the other
being Malvern Hall, who now
goes into Brosnan’s stables. New
Fairy\ time was only a fraction
outside Royal Fable’s race
record.
Bought as a yearling for
300gns., Trizzie was the medium
for a confident betting-plunge in
a Two-year-old Maiden at
Hawkesbury, and she gave Stan
Cassidy an armchair ride,
winning by half-a-dozen lengths.
She is by Hunter’s Moon (imp.)
from Rubble by Plymouth Sound
(imp.).
Secured in New Zealand as a
yearling for 700gns., the Gold
Nib (imp.) gelding Happy Peter
cleared out with the Hawkes-
bury First Maiden for two-year-
olds. Trained at Rosebery by
S. Nicholls for paddock book-
maker L. Burke, Happy Peter
was bred at Altorl Lodge stud, Te
Kauwhata. His dam, Preste, by
Lang Bian (imp.) from Prestige
by Limond (imp.), is a half-
sister to Peerless, a top N.Z.
performer whose wins included
the Oaks Stakes.
* * *
At Harold Park on Saturday
night square-gaiter Para Rip
stepped-out for a crack at
Sandan’s mile trotting-record
(2.4|), established last October.
In his last three starts the big
Para Volo gelding has been
magnificent, and, depending
more on pluck than speed,
Sandan has gallantly filled a
place behind him —twice second
and once third. The little' mare
would probably have given a
whinny of approval if he had
broken her record ; but he didn’t
—he broke at his first attempt,
tried again, but didn't stretch out
at any stage, and managed only
2.1 If. He has rated 2.10 f over
15f furlongs on Harold Park.
The following day Para Rip
lined-up with a field of toey
pacers in a moving-barrier
exhibition over 8| furlongs at
a Bankstown gymkhana. He
started from scratch, recent
Summer Handicap winner Sky
High went from 12yds., Expen-
sive (a .slippery miler) and the
last Spring Cup winner, Port
Logan, from 24yds. They were
to be timed for the mile. Para
Rip broke and lost ground just
inside the mile peg, but erased
and caught his field. He staged
a grand tussle with Sky High in
the 'stretch, with Sky High’s
reinsman, Binskin, vigorous ; but
the pacer was no match —Para"
Rip won by a length, going
away. He ran the mile in 2.7 f,
on a track' that would be slower
than the Harold Park surface of
Saturday night. If it’s not that
he likes to see something in
front of him to chase, it must
be the weather.
+ +
John Marshall, whose death
after a car accident in Victoria
last week was deplored by the
Prime Minister, in editorials,
and by some of the best sporting
leaders in the land, was very
close indeed to the ideal Aus-
tralian sportsman. His brilliance
was manifest in the 28 world
records he made; his tenacity
in the courage with which he
tackled new styles and classes
when his age —he was 26 —told
against him in the free styles in
which he had been top class;
and his natural modesty had an
engaging charm. Some
authorities rank him ahead of
Charlton in Australian swim-
ming annals and second only to
Beaurepaire.
In Brisbane, in a solo swim,
John Devitt broke the world
100-metres freestyle record. His
time, 54.65ec., bettered Henricks’s
long-course 55.45ec. and
American Dick Cleveland’s time
in a 25-metre pool, 54.8 sec.
Devitt, who not Jong ago was
considered . below Henricks,
Chapman and Aubrey, now
certainly has staked a good claim
to be rated Australia’s No. 1
sprint-swimmer.
* * *
Marlene Matthews, who
finished third to Betty Cuthbert
in the two sprint-races at the
Olympic Games, has now, in the
' course of a week, four times in
four races (three 100yds. and
a 220yd5.) % turned the tables.
Fourth time was last Saturday in
the N.S.W. 100yds. title, won
in what was world-record time
(10.1 sec) —a time, however,
disallowed as the record because
of the strong following wind.
The pair meet again this coming
Saturday in the N.S.W. 220yds.
title.
* * *
Sailed on Sydney Harbor in
three heats, the Australian 18-
footer title was won by Sydney
boat Ajax, which won the third
heat, sailed in a stiff Wind and
choppy water last Saturday.
Tek, winner of the first heat in
course-record time, and the
Queensland boat S.M.V., which
won the second heat, both
capsized in heats, Tek in the
second, S.M.V. in the third. Tek
nevertheless had enough points
to be placed second to Ajax in
the championship.
* * *
N.S.W. has retained the
Sheffield Shield in 1956-57.
Queensland, having its best
Shield season (and without the
sendees all through of Ron
Archer, too), came second. Had
N.S.W. been beaten outright last
week by Victoria —which looked
a certainty at several stages—it
would have finished level on
points with Queensland, which
would have won (on points) the
Shield for the first time. On the
S.C.G. this year, against both
Queensland and Victoria, N.S.W.
has been badly beaten on the
first innings but has fought a
long, back-to-the-wall second-
innings battle and averted out-
right defeat.
W.A. skipper Meuleman’s
234 not-out against S.A. was the
highest Sheffield Shield and first-
class score made on , the
W.A.C.A. grouqd, Perth (and the
highest Shield score this year).
Previous best Shield score there
was Watson’s 206 for N.S.W. last
December, which in turn had
beaten Keith Carmody’s 198 in
his first match for W.A., in
1947. Watson’s 206, however,
had not beaten a 211 made
against W.A. by a Victorian
batsman, Col McKenzie, back
in 1910 —which remained the
best first-class score on the
ground till Meuleman’s score.
• i 9
“J.S.L.”: But must a catch
necessarily be appealed for
(B. 23 /1 /’57)? I was ’keeping for
Tattersall’s Backseaters against
C.T.A. I caught what was a
snick, without hearing the touch.
The bowler looked inquiringly at
me before appealing, but I shook
my head, not thinking it was a
catch. During the drinks adjourn-
ment, the batsman volunteered
the information that he had hit
the ball, and the umpire told me
that, if either the bowler or I or
anyone else had appealed, he
would have given the batsman
out. No batsman need (and a
lot of them don't) go out until
an appeal is made. If there is
no appeal for a catch, even if
a catch is clearly made, the
batsman can stay in. Therefore
in the case “K.R.” quotes the
ball is not dead when it’s caught,
and the umpire must adjudicate
on the appeal for a run-out. I’ll
bet a Golden Casket ticket that
I’m right.
“K.R.”: Many of the returns
by Victorian fieldsmen to wicket-
keeper Maddocks at the S.C.G.
on Australia Day were low or
wide. Over-the-wicket returns
(as Bradman, for one, always
did it) should be the rule, not
the exception, in Shield cricket.
Apropos, the best bit of fielding
that day came when Harvey
dropped a sharp chance from
O’Neill at short square-leg, and,
the ball going behind him,
O’Neill started down the pitch.
Spin-bowler Alan Dick grabbed
the ball and threw-down the
wicket from side-on. And most
of the Sydney papers gave the
credit for the throw to Harvey!
“Atala”: S.A. captain Ridings
has been a capable enough
skipper. In one respect, anyway,
the State’s cricket-followers have
had no cause to grumble at his
being in charge. When he won
the toss against W.A. in what
was his last Shield match the
other day it was for the 17th
time in his last 18 Shield games!
* * *
Ashley Cooper, who looks at
the moment the most likely to
succeed to RosewalPs singles
berth in the Davis Cup team,
beat Neale Fraser in four sets
to win the 1957 Australian title.
In a semi-final Fraser had
eliminated an injured Hoad, and
so stopped any chance of Hoad’s
getting the “grand slam” this
year. (In the national titles last
year Hoad,'* who took out the
singles title, blasted Fraser off the
court in a semi-final, Fraser
winning only five games. But few
w'ould have done better against
Hoad that day.) Hoad' and
Fraser, who look the likely Davis
Cup doubles-team, won, the
Australian doubles-title The
Australian team to go abroad is
Hoad, Cooper, Fraser, Anderson,
Emerson and Mark, all of whom
were away, officially or unoffi-
cially, last year.


Wool
Men
m
-
'r “
>*-
A/
/V/
/'-S'
/A
/**
;„s^n
//<
g^x
'M
m
v.
//
UAL
stockmen on tin
~. successors to the colourful pack-horsed boundary riders in the sprawlipg
saltbush and spinifex centre of Australia ... On a 2,000,000-acre station
abutting the Nullabor Plain, their buzzing hornets have spelt finis to arduous
mustering on the “sheep-to-40-acres” country, radiating 80 miles from the
station behind 400 miles of vermin-proof fencing needing constant patrol to
keep in order . . . Here a fleet of scooters, with Kelpies and Border Collies
trained to ride their footboards, have brought automation to the remote
interior.
Likewise Dalgety’s dependable wool and stock-selling service, its merchan-
dising facilities, and its friendly advice and help to graziers, have brought the
most efficient and experienced service to the pastoral industry all over Australia.
Datg&tys
Always Dependable
15 BENT ST., SYDNEY, AND ALL STATES
Australia's Largest and Friendliest Hotel
THE
HOTEL METROPOLE
m
mm
•.-.•X-'X-n
m
Advance booking essential.
SYDNEY
• Conveniently Located.
• First-class Dining Room.
• New Banquet Rooms for
Private Functions.
• Ultra Modem Private
Suites.
• Spacious private Lounge
and Sumptuous Public
Lounge.
• Over Rooms with
Private Bathrooms.
The METROPOLE
the Countrymen’s home
in Town.
80522 Box 1601 G.P.O.
Faith in the
Future
I notice that the population of Australia last
June was 9,427,558. At the rate at which it is
rising—226,867 last year—we should have passed
the nine-and-a-half-million mark now.
There are many aspects to the subject of
population, the most commonly discussed being
the need for strengthening our numbers in a
continent that covers 2,974,000 square miles.
However, the point I would make here is that
the population of a country must be evalued at the
personal or individual level; bare statistics are to
be construed in the creative effort of so many
million hands and brains.
If they do their work badly or indifferently,
that is reflected in the standards of national
prosperity. How well they do it depends very much
on how high an assessment the individuals 'put
on Life.
When I was in Hawaii last year I went to
Kauai, the beautiful island Captain Cook touched
in his discovery of the archipelago. A monument
on Kauai commemorates his landing.
And I saw there the Hawaiian ceremony of
planting a coco palm: the placing of a lei of
perfumed blossoms on it to signify the honour
attaching to a new life.
Consider the twofold lesson in this: the tribute
to all that springs to life and growth under the
Creator, the fostering of the cultivation of food
from the earth—as a basic in the art of living.
It is a thought we can profit from, as we go
on towards a ten million in population, which this
decade should see realised. In relation to the world
our numbers are few—and that in itself calls for
a balance in high and efficient production.
We are not as ceremonial a people as the
Hawaiians. But we can garland this new life —
and ours as a nation Is new—by the quality of the
effort each of us puts now into making Australia
flourish.
//
7
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
To buy a print of the sailing-ship
Pamir. —6462.
To buy copies of histories of
N.S.W. cities and towns, published by
municipalities, shires or individuals.
-6459.
To sell the following: Copy of
“The Bulletin” Reciter; a jubilee-
number of The Colonial A-l Reciter
(third series); “The Cob’ar Steeple-
chase” and other humorous
recitations. —6460.
To buy The Darkness and any
other books on the “Dead Sea
Scrolls,” in the style of Edmund
Wilson’s w0rk.—6461.
To buy books by Agnes and
Egerton Castle. —6463.
Information Sought
A method of pickling olives ? (Z
grow them, but find they go soft after
sterilising. )
It is hardly necessary to sterilise the
fruit if it is cleanly gathered and
wiped with a damp cloth. Sterilising
would have a softening or cooking
effect. The fruit should be gathered
while it is still green, before the stone
has hardened. Place it overnight in
a fairly strong brine (made from
table-salt and water), which is first
boiled and allowed to cool before the
olives are immersed. Make a pickle
of vinegar containing sliced onions,
cloves, peppercorns, salt, and a little
sugar Boil, 'strain, place the olives
in it,’ and bring the lot to the boil.
Keep at boiling-point until the olives
are soft enough for your taste; avoid
overcooking. While still hot, place
in jars and screw-down. The
ingredients in the pickle must be
measured to suit your liking. Some
cooks treat the olives without any
boiling at the pickle-stage if they
are sufficiently soft when gathered.
Experiment with a small lot first.
* * * *
Sfrme information on writer of
espionage books, Bernard Newman?
Born May 8, 1897, in Leicestershire
(Eng.), he served with the B.E.F. in
France 1915-19. In 1924 he became
a lecturer on espionage, travel and
European affairs with the British
Ministry of Information. During
World War 11, as Staff Lecturer with
the Ministry of Information, he
served with the B.E.F. and with the
French Army; in 1942 he toured
North America for the M. 0.1. After
the war he visited other countries
for Army Education, and has
travelled ail told in more than 50
countries. He has written a raft
of books (well over 80, some under
the ps'eudonym Don Betteridge),
beginning with Round About
Andorra (1928). Others include Spy
(1935), Secret Servant (1935),
German Spy (1936), Maginot Line
Murder (1939), Death to the Spy
(1939), Death to the Fifth Column
(1941), Secret Weapon (1942), Epics
of Espionage (1950), Tito’s
Yugoslavia (1952), Spy-Counter-Spy
(1953), Report on Indo-China (1953),
Berlin and Back (1954), The Case of
the Berlin Spy (1954), The Sosnowski
Affair (1954), Still Flows the Danube
(1955), and Operation Barbarossa
(1956).
* * * *
Some information on the English
city of Manchester ?
The following is from 1956
Whitaker's *: Manchester, the centre
of the world’s cotton trade, is 189
miles north-west of London; its
municipal area is 27,255 acres (about
43 square-miles) and population, at
the census of 1951, 703,175. Man-
chester is the distributing-centre for
the world of Lancashire’s cotton-
spinning knd -weaving, and of butter
and foodstuffs for the most densely
populated part of England. It also
contains large engineering and
machinery works and other secondary
industry. The city is connected with
the sea by the Manchester Ship Canal
(opened 1894), 35£ miles long, 28ft. to
30ft. deep and 120 ft. wide. The
municipal airport has direct passenger-
and freight-services to New York
and to various European countries.
Principal buildings ate the Town
Hall (erected in 1877), the Royal
Exchange (built 1869 and enlarged
1521), the Central Library (1934), Art
Gallery, Whitworth Institute, the 17th-
century Chetham Library, the Rylands
Library (1899), the University, the
15th-century Cathedral and the Free
Trade Hall. The town received a
charter of incorporation in 1838 and
was created a city in 1853. The
“Manchester Guardian’’ is well
known throughout the English-speak-
ing world, and the Halle concerts
have placed the city in the forefront
of musical development.
* * * *
Some comparative census figures on
nationalities in Australia?
(Figures are in the following order:
born in Australia; British born else-
where; total; non-British; total
population.) For 1933: 5,726,566
(86.4 p.c.); 842,952 (12.7); 6,569,518
(99.1); 60,321 (0.9); 6,629,839. For
1947: 6,835,171 (90.2); 705.534 (9.3);
7,540,705 (99.5); 38,653 (0.5);
7,579,358* For 1954: 7,700,064
(85.7) 882,187 (9.8); 8,582,251
(95.5); 404,279 (4.5); 8,986,530.
(“Nationality’’ is taken to signify
allegiance; naturalised British are
included under “British born
elsewhere.”) .
Brief Answers i
J.P.F.: The Society of Australian
Genealogists advise that you apply
to the Ulster King of Arms, Ulster,
Northern Ireland, the family now
being Irish. There will probably
be a charge of some kind
M. Frederick Loewe began as a
child prodigy. He was pounding the
piano at the age of four, made his
debut with/ the Berlin Symphony
Orchestra at 13, and was composing
music at 16. His collaboration with
Alan jay Lerner started in Detroit in
1942, their first-point effprt a musical
version of an item called “The
Patsy.” Later they combined in
“What’s Up,” “The Day Before
Spring,” and the two v successes
“Brigadoon” and “Paint Your
Wagon” W.G.T.: (1) The book
is As He Saw It, by Roosevelt’s son
Elliott Roosevelt (1946).. (2) It is
available at most Australian public
libraries; or write Angus ap.d
Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, or Dymock’s, 424 George-
street, Sydney. (3) Elliott Roosevelt
relates a conversation with his father
during the Tehran Big Three confer-
ence (Nov.-Dee., 1943) in which
President Roosevelt stated that,
while Churchill believed that two
operations by the Western Allies (the
second-front in Normandy and a
thrust up the Danube) were necessary
to the defeat of Germany, both he
and Stalin believed that only the one
operation, across the Channel, was
needed. While Stalin no doubt had
in mind what you suggest, there is no
reason to believe that Roosevelt’s
antagonism to the Danube operation
stemmed from the same cause. Roose-
velt, advised by his chiefs-of-staff,
believed that to mount one great, big
invasion was the quickest way to win
the \yar. Nor is there any reason to
presume that Stalin needed to unduly
influence Roosevelt on that question
at Tehran. (4) For an American
view of the Yalta conference of Feb.,
1945, see Roosevelt and the Russians,
by Edward R. Stettinius, jnr.
R.H.L.: Suggest W. H. Plumb Pty.,
Ltd., Kendall-street, Bondi Junction,
N. R.F.W.: Gay Balkan
(7.7) won the 1938 Perth Cup from
Tetbury (9.0) and Dark David (8.11).
They put the two miles behind in
3.30 L Tetbury had run second the
previous year, carrying 8.9, to Maikai
(7.11) F.G.: R. Reynolds
(Essendon) was judged “best and
fairest” for 1934, 1937 and 1938....
T. : (1) In 1938 U.S.A. defeated
Australia 3-2; 1939, Australia
defeated U.S.A. 3-2. (2) The next
tie was in 1946, when U.S.A.
whipped Australia 5-0. (3) In 1947
U. tossed Australia 4-1: Kramer
defeated Pails 6-2, 6-1, 6-2; Schroeder
defeated Bromwich 6-4, 5-7, 6-3, 6-4;
Schroeder beat Pails 6-3, 8-6, 4-6,
9-11, 10-8; Kramer beat Bromwich
6-2, 6-2, 6-2. Australia’s only win
was in the doubles, John Bromwich
and Colin Long downing Kramer and
Schroeder 6-4, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on all
MSS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MSS. should
be addressed to the Editor; they
will be considered for publication
on the understanding that they may
be shortened or altered as the
Editor thinks necessary.
T.L.: No, it would take more than
“altering the punctuation,” etc., to
make that publishable... .C.W.: A
mere derangement of words....
A.M.S.: “Fragrance” and “My
Little Girl” are the sort of verses
that appeal greatly to the lady that
inspired them, but don’t “go” with
the general public worth a tinker’s
blessing... .G.C.L.: More enthusiasm
than skill H. 8.: Verse about a
man of skin and bones who was
pursued by dingoes, etc., is of no
earthly value... .C.N.: “Vain
Regrets” left the staff dry-eyed to a
man. Your suggested illustration for
the poem, viz., “An elderly man sit-
ting in lonely reverie, with surround-
ings indicating affluenae,” is a brand
of illustration that shall only enter
this paper over our corpse A.J.:
You seem to have taken “Twinkle,
twinkle, little star,” for your poetic
model. There are several better...’.
P.L.W.: Five slight poems in violet
ink declined J.B.McP.: One
rebuke from “The Counter-jumper’S
Protest” should avail to pulverise
those who laugh at him:
Good folks, then pray to remember
Though you may not like his,style,
There’s many an honest counter-jumper
Has had grit .enough to make his pile.
H.F.: Your “Midnight Fantasies”
are the same old fantasies W.J.S.:
“Kindly hit me pretty hard.” Not
bad enough for more than a gentle
pat S.C.: Song with chorus begin-
ning “O, green are thy banks,
Murrumbidgee, and fair!” we leave
for others J.L.S.: Neatly done,
but the humor of the man who is
chased by a horde of females, all of
whom want to marry him, belongs to
a bygone age... .W.W.T.: It ambles
along gracefully enough, but it doesn't
arrive anywhere L.M.: Heaven
forbid that any encouragement from
us should lure yqu from your present
job to a "full-time literary career.”
J.A.P.: Declined without any
reservation or doubt whatever.
Declined, - in fact, enthusiastically
H.G.: Too rhetorical and long-
winded for u5....E.T.: Interested to
hear of the flea-ridden state of your
King’s Cross flat. Your pen lacks,
however, the descriptive touch which
is an essential in depicting the
menace of fleas... .S.H.M.: “Satan s
Soliloquy” resembles the monologue
of a pantomime demon, and so it
has been passed down the trapdoor
that leads to eternal darkness....
R.P.F.: Yarn about the leg-pulling
mail-coach driver who told a way-
side kangaroo that there were “no
letters today,” and so stupefied a
newchum, first appeared in The
Bulletin at least 60 years ago.


I XL
This World Famous' Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers arid Packers o/.*—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
f. HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
How to overcome
mental blocks
Ever forget a friend’s name just
as you introduce him? Freeze
up in a discussion, even though
you know the facts? Take
minutes, even hours, making a
simple decision? February
Reader’s Digest tells what
causes those strange “mental
short circuits” that sometimes
freeze our minds and paralyse
our imaginations, and gives* sug-
gestions on how you can over-
come them.
This is just one of the stimu-
lating features of lasting
interest, including the best from
leading magazines and current
books, condensed to save your
time. Get your copy of February
Reader’s Digest—only 2/- at all/
newsagents and bookstalls.
Between
Ourselves
—Have You Ever Tried
This?
There is one really
practical way to ensure
that a wife brings variety
and interest to her cook-
ing—see that she always
reads the Kitchencraft
pages in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
UNITED NATIONS CRITICS
T> ECENT happenings having
demonstrated the inability of
United Nations to act effectively
against anyone not inclined to
respect its authority, there have
been, in Mr. Dulles’s historical
expression, some “agonising
reappraisals” of U.N.’s place in
world-affairs.
Oddly enough, the U.N.’s one*
recent successful assertion of
authority has, by underlining its
ineffectiveness in other directions
Hungary, for instance
tended to discredit rather than
enhance its prestige.
In the case of Suez, “York-
shire Post” comments, “the
U.N., seizing an opportunity to
prove its effectiveness, and,
backed for once by both the
colossi, Russia and the United
States, imposed a cease-fire on
an acquiescent Britain and
France”:
“Thus the spirit of inter-
national law was defeated by -a
rigid adherence to its letter, and
Colonel Nasser emerged with a
diplomatic victory far beyond
his deserts. He had achieved this
not by military' strength, the
valor of his troops or the justice
of his cause but merely by trad-
ing on the world’s fearful hopes
for peace.”
Commenting also on the
“functions and purposes of the
U.N.,” LfO uisv i 11 e (U.S.A.)
“Courier-Journal” says that “we
[the U.S.A.] have used it
[U.N.] to express disapproval of
Great Britain, France and Israel.
We have sponsored and pushed
to passage numerous resolutions
condemning Russian conduct in
Hungary, the latest of which sets
up a ‘truth committee’ to inquire
into the Hungarian revolution.
“The results have underlined
a weakness of the United Nations
that has become painfully appar-
ent in these last fateful weeks.
Great Britain, France and Israel
were rebuked, restrained and
hurriiliated because they share
that ‘decent respect for the
opinion of mankind’ which
alone can induce compliance
with U.N. resolutions.
“Egypt, Soviet Russia and the
puppet Government of Hungary
have turned to their own pur-
poses such of the resolutions as
seemed useful and ignored the
others. Thus the ‘truth com-
mittee’ cannot enter Hungary,
Soviet Russia or any of the
satellites. Its truths can com-
pel no course of action, can turn
back no clocks.
“They can only, as Paul-Henri
Spaak has pointed out, point-up
the bitter truth that ‘the United
Nations had been able to pre-
vent the* extension of war in
Egypt but were powerless to
block or end the Soviet aggres-
sion in Hungary. This difference
fosters the fear that in an
organisation where impartiality
was supposed to be the rule,
power or cynicism actually has
carried the day. Although the
United Nations has, to a certain
extent, prevented war, I greatly
fear that it is quite incapable of
making right prevail.’
“We [the U.S.] used the
United Nations as a voice to
express our anger and dismay
when the British-French action
in Egypt took us by surprise.
In thus confessing that there was
no American policy toward the
Middle East in existence at the
time, we acted as though the
United Nations could determine
policy, make decisions and
enforce them.
“But, Mr. Acheson [former
U.S. Secretary of State]
reminded us, ‘the United Nations
is not a supranational entity with
a mind, a will and a power. It
is a forum, and no more than
the nations which meet there.
Nothing more comes out of it
than is put into it.’
“ ‘lf a great nation like the
United States looks to the
United Nations to form
American policy instead of fight-
ing in the United Nations for
what the American Government
believes should be done, then
we have committed an unprece-
dented abdication of responsi-
bility and power. We deserve
what we get. If we believe that
we have exhausted our responsi-
bilities when we join the United
Nations to pass resolutions which
are defied, and which we have
no intention of backing up, we
have engaged in a most danger-
ous form of self-deception.’
“This has never been more true
than it is now. While using the
United Nations to force opr
friends to conform, we might
have used it to exert pressure
on Egypt’s Nasser for a real
settlement of the canal problem
and a real attempt at peace with
Israel. We stopped with the
easy answer and have not
attempted the harder ones.
“In Hungary, we know, and
the Russians know, that defiance
of the Assembly resolutions will
bring ncr consequences whatever.
We [the U.S.] have not asked for
the formation of a task-force to
free Hungary, we have no
intention of asking for one. We
know as well as Russia knows
that we will not force any issues
there, and that whatever the
truth committee reveals of
treachery, brutality and aggres-
sion, the only penalty will be
still another resolution.
“We are indeed, as Mr.
Acheson warns, engaged in ta
most dangerous self-deception if
we think that pious forms of
words can make a policy for us
01 for the United Nations.”
Noting Acheson’s comments,
Arthur Krock, in “New York
Times,” adds those of two more
public figures who have lately
stressed “the practical and legal
limits of the function, and the
effectiveness, of the United
Nations.”
President Eisenhower has
remarked that while* the U.N.
“can always be helpful, it
cannot be a wholly dependable
protector of freedom when the
ambitions of the Soviet Union
are involved.”
Of the second critic —Viscount
Cherwell speaking in the House
of Lords —Krock remarks that,
although he [Cherwell] was
doubtless moved by the British
resentment of the resolutions of
the U.N. Assembly with respect
to the British-French military
invasion of Egypt, “many of his
points are not destroyed by this
circumstance.”
Among the points to which
Krock accords significance:
“I [Cherwell] hate living in a
fool’s paradise, and though, like
everyone else, I wish the U.N.O.
could work I have icome
reluctantly to the view that in
its present form it cannot.”
In the Assembly, “the ultimate
governing body of the U.N.0.,
5 per cent, of the world’s popula-
tion can carry the day against
the other 95 per cent., and 10
per cent, could claim a two-
thirds majority. Half the popula-
tion of the world is represented
by four delegates, the other half
by seventy-five.”
“Some are the most highly
educated and civilised countries
on the planet. The inhabitants
of others can scarcely read or
write. The vote of 400 million
[East] Indians or 160 million
Americans is equated to the
vote of 4 million Bolivians.”
Nothing “could be more inept
than the description of the
Assembly as a ‘tribunal.’ ” To
describe its majority vote as “ ‘a
decision of the highest tribunal
in the world’ is simply laugh-
able.”
This “absurdity of the
Assembly Constitution” was
recognised from the start, and
hence the Security Council was
established. But only if the great
Powers were in agreement could
the Council’s decisions be either
respected or enforced. So the
only hope was to “prevent small
local wars among the minor
Powers.”
But Soviet Russia used the
veto so consistently that “a
procedure was introduced which
—London “Time and Tide ”
FEEDING TIME
was not originally contained in
the Charter.” This consisted of
“convoking a special session of
the Assembly and getting recom-
mendations by a two-thirds
majority. If the people who
accuse Britain of breaking our
word under the Charter” had
lead it they would see that “we
have never undertaken to obey
the resolutions of the Assembly.”
As for the U.N. police-force
in Egypt, “it could be swept away
by one brigade of Israelis and
probably even by two or three
divisions of Egyptians.” To be
“of any use” a U.N. police-force
would have to be stronger than
any nation or combination of
nations. What “sort would be
required to turn Russia out of
Hungary, or America out of
Formosa, should the Afro-Asian
bloc, voting with the Latin-
American or the Iron Curtain
countries, secure an Assembly
vote to this effect?”
Only by reason of the absence
of the Soviet delegate—a “fluke”
—did the Council approve
armed force against the North
Koreans, “But does anyone
believe the United States would
[in the event of a Russian veto]
have abandoned to massacre
millions who had put their trust”
in the United States?
It is “nonsense” for nations
to submit their “vital interests to
a body so absurdly constituted”
as the Assembly.
America and the
Middle East
British press-comment on the
proposed U.S. policy for the
Middle East:
London “Economist” : “The
joint resolution to implement
the President’s Middle Eastern
programme would authorise the
President to:
“Co-operate with and assist
any nation or group of nations
in the general area of the Middle
East in the development of
economic strength dedicated to
the maintenance of national
independence.
“Undertake military-assistance
programmes with any nation or
group of nations of that area
desiring such assistance.
“Employ the armed forces of
the United States as he deemed
necessary to secure and protect
the territorial integrity and
political independence of any
such nation or group of nations
requesting such aid against overt
armed aggression from any
nation controlled by inter-
national Communism. Such
employment must be consonant
with the treaty-obligations of
the United States and with the
Charter of the United Nations
and with actions and recommen-
dations of the United Nations.”
The same ; “Mr. Dulles has
said that Middle Eastern coun-
tries must be ‘dedicated to fight-
ing against international Com-
munism’ if they are to get any
of the proposed financial aid.
Thus the two parts of the plan
are tied together. Mr. Eisen-
hower proposes to fight Soviet
aggression with cash and, in the
last resort, with guns.
“More and more the doctrine
fades as a policy for the Middle
East and sharpens as American
policy for resisting Russia. Dr.
Charles, Malek, the Lebanese
Foreign Minister, said that one
could judge the degree of Soviet
penetration in any Arab country
by the amount of fear of Russia
in that country; those most
deeply penetrated feared it least.
The implication for the Eisen-
hower doctrine is that those
countries which are least pene-
trated will get the aid, while
those drifting into the Soviet
camp will not.
“Egypt, Syria and, to an
increasing extent, Jordan, are in
the latter group, and present the
most severe threat to the Western
position in the Middle East. Mr.


I ET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established lbi/b in deign Of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
Battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO. f LTD,
( England)
NJ3.W. Branch:
S Spring Street, Sydney.
Chief Office for Australia and
New Zealand:
406 Collins Street, Melbourne.
V,
a.
l W*f" l?
w
iSfm i
■: r^Aifcv
m*
mm
£ T-- . / ■
■
P 8
StS'?-'
IP
*es
3
fm
‘,.--'W :
'
• :;v
IS**HL ~V
f
! .i :: '? > > < ■■■ ■■ * r
When the old ladies head south...
THE annual Veteran Car Run from London
to Brighton, irreverently termed “The Old
Crocks’ Race,” is always preceded by a
number of lubrication enquiries from
drivers of vintage cars.
Castrol Headquarters recently received one such
enquiry regarding the correct type of grease for
the big-ends of an 1899 Benz. A check revealed
that, unlike those of a modern car, the big-ends
of this ancient Benz thrash around in the fresh
air, railway engine fashion, and are fitted with
grease cups. Castrolease Heavy was suggested and
the grand old lady arrived safely at the southern
resort.
The point is, of course, when information was
wanted about lubrication the Specialists were the
logical people to ask. It is equally logical that
Castrol Motor Oil, the product of specialists in
lubrication, is the best oil for your car.
on
OIL
*olo*
Dulles has stated specifically
that Egypt and Syria will get
the aid only ‘if that aid is stipu-
lated to fight against inter-
national Communism.’ President
Nasser does not permit a Com-
munist party in Egypt; but this
can hardly be what Mr. Dulles
means, as he relates the plan
to the boost which Egyptian
policy has given to the Com-
munist Powers. He is . really
offering to buy Egypt and Syria
back into the Western told.
“This can mean only one of
two things. Either the State
Department still believes that
sheer necessity, or cupidity, will
compel drifting States such as
Egypt and Syria to stop drifting ;
or it believes that the only thing
to do is to support the Baghdad
allies and others, Such as the
Lebanon, Libya and the Sudan,
which are already inclined to
resist the drift. There : s no
evidence that Arab States will
join the Western camp simply
to get aid. There is much to
indicate that they will resist the
West more strongly if excluded
for political reasons from
getting aid offered to others.”
* * *
London “Financial Times”:
“It [the President’s statement on
U.S. policy] seems to aim
chiefly at removing the impres-
sion that U.S. policy in the
Middle East is supine, that it
will knuckle down to anything
that the Russians care to present
as a fait accompli. It may be
curious that this impression
should have been created nearly
10 years after President Truman
first asserted America’s deter-
mination to prevent the Russians
from forcing their way into the
Eastern Mediterranean.
“It has come about, of course,
because the U.S. Government’s
desire to dissociate itself from
recent Anglo-French actions in
the Middle East has led some
of its spokesmen into saying
things which suggested a funda-
mental divergence over the
essential objectives of policy in
the area.
“The poinf that President
Eisenhower now makes is that
his objection to the armed inter-
vention of Britain and France
does not mean that the U.S.
refuses in all circumstances to
contemplate the use of armed
force on her own account in
the area.”
* * *
London “Time and Tide”:
“Mr. Dulles himself has made
it clear that the President will
feel free to act without the con-
sent of the United Nations if he
judges the situation td be too
urgent for consultation. He
envisages American armed
action undertaken by the United
States alone and by the authority
of the President alone. Mr.
Dulles heatedly declares that
what the President hopes to be
given the power to do is morally
the opposite of what Britain and
France did, but prominent
Americans have bluntly said
that in principle it is exactly the
same.
“Mr. Dulles has publicly
stated that Britain and France
had provided some kind of
barrier to Communism, but that
the barrier had now been
destroyed. Among those who
destroyed it, he might have
added, ‘ quorum pars magna
fui.’ That thought has been
brought to his mind less classi-
cally but more forcefully by
some of his fellow-countrymen.
“The aid proposal for
Middle Eastern countries is also
being considered with a notable
lack of enthusiasm. Americans
have grown tired of giving
money away and they have had
a disillusioning experience dp
their previous efforts to buy
international popularity.”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“The present emergency policy
adopted by Washington at the
last minute has been made
necessary not only by what
Britain has done in the past few
months but by what America
#as refused to do in the past 10
years.
“It would be more honest,
and a better omen for the future,
if the American Administration
occasionally gave public recog-
nition of this truth about the
past instead of continuing to
paint Britain as the sole villain
of the present and the United
States as the deus ex machina
of the future.
“The Americans are doinlg
today what we [Britain] have
long asked them to do —namely,
to recognise that the Middle
East is as much a vital interest
of theirs as it is of ours.
Unhappily they have waited to
learn this lesson until it is too
late to be of much profit to their
allies.”
The same: “The truth is
that for a time Washington, by
sacrificing British interests, may
seem to be exercising influence
and gaining popularity in the
Middle East. But what happens
when there are no more obvious
British interests to sacrifice?
What happens when the Ameri-
cans, like Britain before them,
come up against the final Arab
demand —the destruction of
Israel —which no Administra-
tion, however pro-Arab, can
possibly accept? Then we shall
see Whether the Americans have
a Middle East policy for the
future noticeably more success-
ful than that of Britain, about
which Mr. Dulles feels so smugly
superior.” .
* * *
Lord Van sit tart in a letter to
London “Daily Telegraph”:
“Dulles has drawn heavily on
our [British] good humor .of
late. Eisenhower, professing in
the Far East what he damns
in the Near East, is taking
power to do approximately what
he blamed us for doing there.
Applause would be warmer if
they would stop, trying to dis-
guise belated sense as moral
superiority.
“Dulles affirms that our atti-
tude differs from theirs ‘as
night from day.’ Enough of
that nonsense.
“The Americans mean to pre-
vent Russian predominance in
the Near and Middle East, and
so did we.”
European Free Trade
Area
With the European Free Trade
area falling rapidly into shape
and with Britain’s new Prime
Minister keenly interested —“I
firmly believe that it is our
[Britain’s] destiny to work more
and more closely with European
countries” the weight of
British press-comment appears
to be directed in support of
U.K. participation.
Among the main objectors to
Britain having any part in the
scheme, London “Daily Express”
comments that “the omens are
disquieting”:
“For the new Prime Minister,
the new Chancellor of the
Exchequer (Mr. Thorneycroft),
and the new President of the
Board of Trade (Sir David
Eccles) are all enthusiasts for
get-togethers with Europe. And
all three are lukewarm about
the Empire.
“One thing these new arbiters
of economic policy should grasp
from the outset:
“Renounce the Empire and
you renounce Britain’s future
too. For from the Empire
comes Britain’s strength.
“On her own this country is
just an overcrowded little
island with an ageing popula-
tion. But partnered by the
Empire lands Britain becomes
the driving-force of a world-
wide union, rich in resources
and abounding in hope.
“Does the Continental scheme
involve renouncing these hopes?
Mr. Macmillan and his collabor-
ators will say it does not.v They
will urge that the bulk of
Empire trade will be unaffected.
It consists of agricultural pro-
duce, which is exempt from the
proposals.
“But can anybody be so naive
as to judge the scheme on its
face-value? Once Britain is
inside the European net there
will be new pressure to wrest
her Imperial advantages away
from her.
“It is a technique known to
Communists as the salami
method—one slice at a time.”
The bulk of editorial com-
ment, however, inclines the
other way. Edinburgh “Scots-
man,” noting that America’s
holding-back over Suez might
have influenced some to incline
towards closer ties with Europe,
dismisses that idea as “political
delusion,” and goes-on to com-
ment that there are “sounder
grounds for creating a European
common market and an associ-
ated Free Trade area than
passing resentment at U.S.
policy”:
“If Britain took part in the
imaginative scheme for
economic co-operation in
Europe, she would not be mov-
ing away from America. In
post-war years the United States
has consistently urged its
European friends to co-operate
in order to secure the advantages
of a larger market. With the
reservation that the Customs
Union must not mean higher
trade-barriers against outside
countries, Mr. Eisenhower has
given the plan his blessing and
promised to watch ‘this exciting
development with intense
interest.’
“There are two lines of
advance towards economic
unification of Europe. The six
countries of ‘Little Europe’ have
to complete the structure of the
common market or Customs
Union. Then the terms of
association between the common
market and the Free Trade area,
which may include Switzerland
and the Scandinavian countries
as well as Britain, have to be
negotiated. An immense range
of complex technical questions
about tariffs had to be examined,
but there are signs of quicken-
ing progress.
“There is not a vast difference
between the common market
and the Free Trade area.
Countries in the second group
would be free to fix tariffs
against non-member nations,
while those in the Customs
Union would have a common
tariff against .outsiders. This
difference would be important for
Britain, since the price of entry
to the Continental club would
not be the sacrifice of Imperial
preferences.
“Mr. Macmillan has made it
clear that Britain would not
contemplate bringing . o^’
including tobacco and drink,
withinf the Fiee Trade ariange-
ment, so that Commonwealth
trade would not be great y
affected and, in any case,
imperial preferences are pegge
by the rules ot u.A.I.i.
Without impairing existing
commitments Britain could
become a good European Ihe
risk of staying outside is
exclusion from a large market.
On the positive side there are
the opportunities for expanding
exports and playing a leading
part m the European community,
m which we are deeplyvinvolve
whether we like it or not.
London Daily Mail, also
favoring Britain s participation,
adds that Europe has-been far
ahead of Britain in its thinking
along these lines :
“The European Coal and Steel
community has been in existence
since 1952, and there has been
discussion about a similar
community to develop atomic
energy ”
On the common-market idea,
the “Daily Mail” adds that
Britain > because of her Common-
wealth connections, has had to
tread more carefll lly. It has been
made clear that if she joined any
Trade area agricultural
P ro<^ucts an< 3 foodstuffs, of which
she im P orts 80 much from the
Commonwealth, would have to
exc l u ded from its terms,
• “But despite all difficulties it
becomes clear that Britain, as a
great nation which lives by
trade, must'clear the decks if she
is going to match the advantages
enjoyed by the U.S. and Russia,
which have huge populations on
which to base their industries.
“Could Britain face the
prospect of free competition with
the industries of Europe with
equal assurance? We believe
that she could, if her industries
were offered the same advantages
at home as those prevailing on
the Continent.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Missing Link
In October last year a practical three-
point railway-gauge unification plan was
brought before the Federal Parliament by
a Parliamentary committee. The chief
project, and one which was given priority
by the Defence Department in 1944, is
the link between Broken Hill and Port
Pirie which is destined to bridge a gap of
253 miles in the future standard-gauge
East-West transcontinental railway.
This line will link the Central Aus-
tralia railway (standard-gauge as far
north as Marree) which is at present quite
isolated from the standard-gauge system
of N. S. Wales.
The Commonwealth Government has
made no announcement of its intentions
to proceed with this project, and the
total result of 17 years of advocacy of the
link seems to be nil. So far, not one
sleeper, not one foot of steel rail, has
been laid.
The projected link between Broken
Hill and Port Pirie would connect-up the
transcontinental railway, the Central Aus-
tralia railway (as far north as Marree),
and the N. S. Wales railways into one
uniform, standard-gauge system of a total
length of 7661 route-miles. In the words
of the late Sir Harold Clapp, the value
of such a uniform standard-gauge over
the present system, semi-paralysed by
breaks-of-gauge, cannot be estimated in
monetary terms. — Geo. Beesley (N.S.W.).
Petrol
As a motorist with over 50 years of
driving and ownership behind me, I think
it is about time the petroleum companies
received some appreciation and kudos
for service, instead of being assailed by
howls of protest every time there is a
slight rise in the price of petrol.
Does the public ever stop to think of
the efficient organisation and research
which enables the motorist to drive into
a service-station anywhere in Australia
and say “Five gallons, please,” and get it
at an extremely reasonable price, all things
considered? Try tp visualise what lies
behind this simple transaction which
everybody, from constant usage, takes
for granted.
Crude oil lies in the bowels of the
earth in territories a long way. from
Australia. Extensive and costly explora-
tion is involved in finding these deposits,
and expensive and intricate scientific
equipment is essential to extract and
refine the crudes; these are later con-
veyed by various ingenious methods to
huge storage-depots and eventually trans-
ferred to fleets of tankers ( on innumerable
seaboards for export to all parts of the
world. Then there is further treatment
and refining in huge storage-depots and
refineries. .<
From these widely scattered depots fuel
and oil is distributed by road, rail and
other means to thousands of service-
stations. Even in the most remote areas
users can rely upon regular and adequate
supplies. Tremendous expenditure on
research and .organisation assures efficient
storage and distribution.
Considering all the processes and
operations involved in refining and distri-
bution from the original source of supply
to the bowser or other container, current
petrol-prices are very reasonable. EVen
seawater, at the same price, would not be
dear having regard to the multiplicity of
services rendered. Petrol is one of our
cheapest commodities, largely because of
efficient and economic distribution and
marketing.
The increase in the price of petrol
since 1945 amounts to about 37 per cent.
I can think of no other business which
has exercised such admirable restraint in
the face of soaring prices and inflation.
Further, by constant research, the
petroleum - industry has consistently
improved the quality of its products.
And the petrol concerns are fair
employers, even generous to those who
render honest service.
If I drive up to a modern service-
station and order two gallons of petrol
—equivalent to 80 miles of travel —I can
have five tyres inflated and checked for
correct pressure, battery and radiator
topped-up, windscreen and windows
polished, and can use a rest-room and
toilet facilities—all for 7s. 7d., the price
of the petrol.— Ajax (N.S.W.).
Bicycles
For Christmas we bought our lad a
locally built and extensively advertised
bicycle. Before he had ridden two yards
the chain fell off, because it lacked a
spring-clip to secure the joining link.
Within a week the rear-hub mechanism
seized, rendering the machine, unusable.
It had to be returned to who
was obliged to replace the hub.
Obviously the bicycle had not been
properly checked or tested before
delivery. The bike’s tool-bag contained the
poorest set of bicycle-tools I have ever
seen—flimsy tyre-levers and a couple of
crudely cut spanners which would not
fit the nuts on the machine.
Much has been spoken and written
about the need to build-up our exports
of manufactured goods, and the bicycle-
trade should offer -a suitable field. But
more care will be needed in the assembly
and testing of the machines. The supply
of a faulty machine to a local purchaser
is easily rectified, but it is a different
story when faulty goods are sent to
other countries. —D. J. G. (Vic.).
% » '
Meat
Regulation 78 of the N. S. Wales Pure
Foods Act provides specific details for
the hygienic handling and selling of
uncooked meat for human consumption,
whether fresh, chilled or frozen.
It requires that .every doorway of a
butcher-shop “shall be provided with a
light swing frame, closely fitting and self-
closing, and covered with wire or
approved gauze of a maximum mesh of
one-sixteenth part of an inch, and every
ventilative or other opening shall be'
covered with similar gauze.”
I checked and lost count of the number
of butcher-shops wifii doors propped
open and without gauze-covering. The
doors were open to dust, petrol-fumes,
stray dogs and flies.
Regulation 78 also states that “no
person shall convey or deliver, or cause
to be conveyed or delivered, any meat
for sale unless such meat whilst being
conveyed or delivered is kept enclosed
"Cad, my medals are killing me!"
so as to protect the same from dust, flies,
or other impurities.”
Ever watched meat being carried
uncovered by men in soiled uniforms
across streets to shops and exposed to
dust and dirt and any other contamina-
tion? Many delivery-men wear leather
shoulder-capes which can be wiped but
are not washable as required by regula-
tions, In the butcher-shops the meat is
hung exposed on rails and is handled
many times in cutting, weighing and
wrapping.
New regulations proposed by the
N. S., Wales Government are aimed at
facilitating the effective policing of
existing regulations. That is not enough.
What is needed is a standard similar to
that of the “supermarkets,” where women
can select meat clearly visible through
a hygienic wrapping and know what
they are getting for their money.
With the supermarkets, meat com-
panies deliver securely wrapped meat in
refrigerated wagons, after which, it is
placed in a cold-room or refrigerated
windows and counters.
Some political observers suggest that
the new regulations are aimed at limiting
the sale of meat by supermarkets and
other stores. But if delicatessens and
other shops can observe the health regula-
tions and provide modern equipment
such, as deep-freeze units there is no
reason why they should not be allowed
to sell pre-cut, uncooked packaged meat.
The competition might urge the butchers
to do a little better.—T. D. (N.S.W.),
Open Tennis
' Can’t agree that open tournaments
would be bad for tennis (B. 23/1/’57).
The admixture of lily whites and pros, has
not harmed golf or cricket.
Desirable or not, open tourneys are
inevitable. It is getting harder and harder
to maintain the pretence that the world’s
top-line Davis Cup men are true-blue
amateurs. Certainly the man in the
street wonders how some players can
maintain themselves and a family and
f yet give at least three-quarters of their
time to tennis.
More dangerous than any other factor
to the future of the amateur game is the
obvious superiority of the pros. The
public will not pay to see second-best.
Kramer’s troupe grossed over £15,000 at
Kooyong in a few days. The Australian
championships which followed immedi-
ately after were staged at a heavy loss.
The fact that Kramer was able to hire
Kooyong, and that the American L.T.A.
is considering open tournaments, are
significant straws in the wind. Within
five years Wimbledon will be a genuine
world-championship open to all —and the
game will be all the better for it. —
B. B. (Vic.).
The Collective Security Myth
When Hitler’s newborn Army took
possession of the Rhineland in contraven-
tion of the Versailles Treaty and the
Nazi delegate to the League of Nations
“cocked a snook” at the indignant
President of the Geneva Assembly, heads
shook in despair over the futili/ty of the
League.
Various reasons were advanced by the
League’s apologists for its failure. Some
said it was general • apathy in a war-
weary world ;\ more said it was due to
the economic slump; and more still
blamed the U.S.A. for holding aloof
from the League. Whether these excuses
had any validity or not, the Geneva
organisation was pre-doomed to
impotency when confronted by one
nation determined to gain its ends at a
given opportunity.
The Nazi policy emanated from the
philosophy of one Dr. Heinrich Rogge
a German jurist to whom Hitler gave a
most receptive ear. The doctor’s theories *
were later published in Berlin, in 1937,
under the title of Collective Security, a
book which devoted some 400 pages ’to
the legal and historical aspects of multi-
lateral conventions and their futility.
Quoting chapter and verse, Rogge
showed how futile leagues and alliances
had proved to be from the days of
classical antiquity onwards, whenever the
doctrine of might-over-right had stalked
across the world.
Looking back at recent flare-ups, there
would seem to be small reason to doubt
Rogge’s claims for defiance of any world-
wide organisation aiming at collective
security. If Nasser or his emissary did
not actually “cock a snook” at the
President of U.N.0., that was not because
of any deterrent action on the part of
either U.N. or Washington, upon whose
financial and moral support the U.N.
largely depends.
There could be no more blatant
derision of international law and collec-
tive security than Nasser’s denial of
passage through the canal to Israeli ships
in the face of repeated admonitions and
orders from Lake Success, not to mention
the overt seizure of the canal as Egypt’s
right in disregard of the universally
accepted convention of 1888. Whatever
the technical relationship between Israel
and the Arab nations, the convention is
unmistakably clear on the right of
passage through the Suez Canal. As to
the unilateral action of Egypt in seizing
the canal and the supine attitude of
U.N.0., that can only be described as
condonation.
It seems fairly obvious that Egypt,
being a comparatively weak Power, has
shaped a policy based upon opportun-
ism, and, like Nazi Germany, has been
able to thumb his nose at U.N. after
tearing up an instrument of international
law with impunity.
None of the foregoing, however, detracts
from the good works of U.N. in other
than political spheres. That also applies to
the defunct League of Nations, which
created more than one of the great social
instrumentalities extant with U.N.0.,
such as 1.L.0. and health and educa-
tional activities. It is to these that the
world should look for international
co-operation and understanding and
through them to a less spectacular but
more likely attainment of universal
peace.— Fred Aarons (N.S.W.).
“A Commonwealth Plan”
The entrenched British resistance to
change, and even to improvement in the
machinery of Commonwealth relations,
has been given a few Australian jabs
recently.
Sir Eric Harrison has revived the
controversial idea of a Common-
wealth secretariat, at least for those
members of the Commonwealth who pay
allegiance to the Throne, and Harold
Holt has stressed once more the vulner-
ability of British manpower and industry
and has urged a vast expansion of British
migration as well as of capital investment.
He has suggested further that the
United States, with the knowledge that
a weakened Commonwealth would mean
a weakening of the whole free world,
might help through closer and moie
productive co-operation. Holt’s sugges-
tion for a Commonwealth plan, “whic
would aim at making the best use o
the great resources which lie within ou
control,” was made at the opening ot t
Citizenship Convention in Canberra.
The new U.K. High Commissioner,
Lord Carrington, listened with obvious
interest. — Muqoa Way (A.C.T.).


Gambling
Statistics can be manipulated to
bolster alnfost any argument, the
gambling figures quoted by “F.R.” (B.
23/1/’57) being a case in point. ,
Accepting that punters did invest
£208.26 million with bookmakers in
1954, those millions were, however, the
aggregate of a much smaller sum going
around and around.
Any bookmaker would be delighted to
make a gross profit of 10 per cent, of his
holdings. Taking that percentage as a
basis, examine the case of a bookmaker
who holds an average of £5OO on each
race. After the first race, he pays back
£450 to the punters to invest on the
second event. At the end of an eight-race
meeting, that bookmaker has held £4OOO,
and retained £4OO, which is the actual
amount the punters have gambled away.
It then becomes clear that the £208.26
million quoted by “F.R.” is actually some
£2O million—quite a different picture.
In Victoria, at least, the bookmakers
pay, as well as income-tax, ticket-tax and
licence-fees, a 2 per cent, turnover-
tax. A considerable slice of their gross
profit thus goes towards those, worthy
causes mentioned by “F.R.” —social
services and defence.
I doubt if it would be possible to make
out an ethical defence of gambling, but
the average racegoer gets a lot of fun
from the sport and does not spend more
on it than he can afford. Certainly, it is
wrong to pretend that the gambling fever
is ten-times as intense as it actually is.—
Bookie’s Dog (Vic.).
Defence Policy
Apart from occasional —very occasional
—Ministerial pronouncements in Parlia-
ment on defence, the only information
obtainable by the Australian public on
a subject which so closely concerns it
is from the pundits of the newspapers.
These gentlemen have recently been
writing columns of matter, which may or
may not be well-informed, to tell us what
the chiefs-of-staff of the Services are
proposing in the current revision of
defence planning. They have been
applauding, mostly, the reported moves
to integrate thoughts on defence with
External Affairs Department assess-
ments of the international situation,
Treasury assessments of how much
money is' available, and Prime Minister’s
Department assessments of whatever that
department is supposed to assess. There
have been suggestions, prompted
originally by Sir Frederick Shedden’s
disclosures Jo the Bland committee last
year, that a great deal of money has gone
down the drain in recent years, in
National Service and in other branches
of a defence-scheme which has never
seemed quite clear on what it was
intended to do and how.it was to do it.
Surely the public which pays for it
all should be told openly what our defence
objectives are. Surely some public debate
on the requirements for defending this
continent (from inside its own shores
and from outside) would lead to clearer
thinking, and thus strengthen whatever
views are ultimately held to be soundest.
Surely we should know exactly what our
commitments are under Anzus, Seato,
Anzam, the U.N. and so forth.' Surely it
should be possible to have some
discussion of our duty towards both our
near-neighbors and towards the rapidly-
changing defence requirements and out-
looks of both Britain and the United
States. At the same time we should be
told, without any alarmist talk, just what
is felt in defence circles here and abroad
about the roles and the effectiveness of
guided-missiles, atomic and thermo-
nuclear weapons, the developments in
bacteriological warfare, the uses of
nuclear-powered submarines and the
other developments which are making
much conventional defence thinking
hopelessly out of date.
All these matters are our concern, the
concern of the ordinary man and woman
planning ahead, interested in the preser-
vation of their children and themselves
and in the improvement of our way of
life and of our national and international
opportunities. There are few real secrets
in the world today on armaments, and
the release of much fuller information
than we now possess in Australia would
not endanger anything.
The fact that some of the politicians
have just arranged to go through the
civil-defence course at Mt. Macedon
suggests that this segment of the overall
defence-planning picture may now be
better appreciated in the Federal Parlia-
ment, but this is far from sufficient. As
soon as Parliament resumes, some time
in March, the Prime Minister and the
Ministers for the .Services should inaugu-
rate a debate in which the greatest
possible amount of information will be
given and to which members can contri-
bute. It should then be clear whether or
not there is a high degree of responsi-
bility and knowledge about this crucial
problem— Mugga Way (A.C.T.).
British Commonwealth Trading
Within the last five years an increasing
number of Australians have questioned
the basis of trade between Britain and
Australia, the factors of which are stiff
largely determined by the outmoded
Ottawa Agreement.
Many, quite wrongly, have been bitter
with Britain, accusing the 01$ Country of
framing bargains favorable to itself both
as exporter and importer. Even if that
were so, however, the blame would lie
just as squarely with an Australian
Government that was party to 'an
unsatisfactory trade-agreement.
The position is, of course, that the
quarter-century that has elapsed since the
Ottawa Agreement was formulated has
entirely changed the relationship between
the two countries. Britain today just can’t
afford to be benevolent. Neither can
Australia, and it is essential that our trade
with Britain and other countries be freed
from any false sentiments or outmoded
political and cultural affiliations.
Australian politicians seem rather too
prone to be swayed by such considera-
tions, particularly when they leave the
Canberra climate and sample' the com-
pelling atmosphere of London. The result
that the British approach trade-
transactions with a cool head, intent on
striking the best Bargain they can, while
our representatives tend to let sentiment
sway them.
The position is nowhere- better
exemplified than in the scale and com-
position of Britain’s dollar-imports.
While Australia has cut its dollar-
purchases to a bare minimum, Britain in
1955 spent £421 million sterling in
America and £343,598,000 in Canada.
Particularly galling to Australians is
Britain’s purchase from America of
primary products. Fruit accounted for
£8,391,000, foodstuffs for animals
£6,438,000, hides and skins £5*362,000,
meat £2,828,000, cereals £47,874,000,
tobacco £46,089,000, animal and vegetable
oils and fats £3,245,000, and oilseeds, nuts
and kernels £2,675,000 (all figures
sterling).
Many British businessmen are seriously
concerned with the position, especially
since the Suez crisis, when America
showed itself capable of using its status
as a creditor to interfere with British
foreign policy. Their eyes are turning
towards the creation of a “third force”
to hold the balance between America and
Canada on the one hand, and Russia and
China on the other.
This “third force” would embrace '
Britain and the British colonies, France
and the French colonies, South Africa,
Australia, New Zealand and Israel.
These areas, if closely knit with trade-
treaties, would be completely independent
of the dollar-world, would be quite self-
supporting and would constitute a power-
ful military bloc.
It is not just an idle blueprint. Already
funds are being collected to launch a
publicity campaign in the countries con-
cerned, and executive bodies have been
formed in London and elsewhere.
Should the movement receive strong
support and official approval in Britain
“ Sarsaparilla-and-paraffin is the only thing for the rheumatics, doctor.
You try it!"
and France, Australia could well be
faced with a decision: to enter the new
economic bloc, or remain aloof and seek
reciprocal trade-agreements elsewhere
while relying on the Seato treaty for
military security.
It seems clear from reading the
propaganda of those behind the move-
ment that Australia is envisaged as an
area of cheap food-production. It says:
If the result were that certain industries
in any one part could not survive, it should
be, considered of no more significance than
“You WOULD go girl-crazy just when I Want you to help me
pickle the onions”
one part of a country no longer proving
the best location. This system would, of
course, force population moves which are
both necessary, and healthy. The present
distribution is bad. If economic pressures
force changes, so much the better. We
should all buy the cheapest food the area
offers. This would bring prices down and
force labor into really economic production
where it is needed.
It would be a retrograde step for Aus-
tralia to join any such alliance. With
our secondary industries developing at a
satisfactory rate, we should look rather to
national self-reliance than to treaty-
arrangements and trade-agreements that
would permit artificial manipulation of
our development,
The Commonwealth Government
should take a leaf out of the book of the
U.K. Government. For years it has
assisted British exporters and traders,
helping them actively to get the best
possible overseas prices for their goods.
There should be no question of new
trade-agreements as far as Australia is
concerned. Let us get the best price we
can for our products and concentrate on
building-up our productivity and popula-
tion. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
David Low
The incident in Low’s Autobiography
where a Hobart bigwig tore up the
sketch of himself reminds me of the fate
of a drawing by Hal Gye for our travel-
book. The subject was a V.I.P. in charge
of a Government department and was a
rugged-looking customer. Gye’s drawing
emphasised the square shape of his head
and strong features. When the publisher
showed the V.I.P. the finished drawing
there was hell to pay—people in high
places often think they are better-looking
than they really are.
To me the drawing was really good,
but to the V.I.P. it was “terrible—nothing
like me.” It was too much like him.
The publisher refused to offend a per-
sonal friend, so the drawing was outed.
The Australian part of Low’s Auto-
biography was of particular interest to
me. I agree with Alec Chisholm (B.
16/1 / ’57) that Low could well have given
more space to the Melbourne side of his
career. The artists and literary folk of
no mean calibre of that period, contem-
poraries of Low, called for some men-
tion from one they treated so well. It
is too late now, of course, to expect Low
to go back to those days. Memory is a
treacherous thing, and unless Low kept
notes as he kept sketch-books he could
not be expected to remember people and
events with the certainty such memoirs
require.
It was part of my job, when the
Federal House wrangled and fought at
the top of Bourke-street, to meet and talk
to politicians. It was during this time
that I met Gye. Alec Sass was doing a
full-page political cartoon for the weekly
journal I edited—very much against
Socialism. When Sass went to America
Gye took over. He conjured a monster
of a Socialist figure, and this evidently
got under the skin of Federal Labor
politicians, and bitter complaints were
voiced in the House about “vile mis-
representation of the noble Labor party.”
This, of course, gave the paper a boost.
Gye did a goodly number of cari-
catures of politicians, foreign Consuls
and leading businessmen for other papers
I was connected with. When he was
happy with the subject there was an
impish gaiety about the caricature that
was unique. There was one of Dr.
Maloney-—the “Little Doc.” —that was a
gem.
I remember only too well the ascent
of Mt. Wellington referred to by Gye in
B. 25/l/’57. I am still tired. 1 also
remember Low’s tea-drinking. The three
of us would go into a Hobart tea-room.
When we sat down Low would clap his
hands in the imperious manner of a
sultan summoning his harem. I recall
the indignant reluctance of the demo-
cratic waitress at the unusual behavior of
the man from New Zealand, but Low
couldn’t have cared less provided the tea
came promptly.
Low’s confidence in himself and his
destiny was equalled only by his pre-
eminence as a black-and-white artist. —
Tim (Vic.).
Selling Points
References on this page to the failure
of agents and manufacturers to give
attention to the little things with regard
to parts and service bring up the ques-
tion of little things in actual selling-
points.
In one instance, several prospective
buyers were given demonstrations on a
new model of a popular make of truck.
One notable feature was the adjustable
seat for driver-comfort, a telling point
where several different sizes in drivers
will be operating the vehicle.
When the new vehicles arrived, how-
ever, they had fixed seats and buyers had
no redress.
Isn’t it about time manufacturers
stopped sheltering behind that clause
qbout the right to alter specifications
without obligation?— Tabba (Q.).


Reduced condition
and death from
gastro-enteritis can
result if sheep over-
feed on grain. When
they are first turned
on to cereal stubbles
only short grazings
should be allowed.
Feeding times could
be lengthened each
day until the sheep
adapt themselves to
the new feed.
Another measure for
safety is to mark and
tail lambs with “Elas-
trator” Rubber Rings
rather than use a
knife.
urs
rROOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard
LOOK for Out MARKER in
every Roll of Netting
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
MBg.%BLK KiaF'
■ iHfc -&H |®f}'" - „ ' 6 1
S fßsfpsSr MSSiIW. -W Jflft ?:?li
jjj ’jM^'V'*? fl *■
IV
~-n -'!••' *»»
s’ JBa
5
p|g§
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents , v
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Reg’d Office and Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING. ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
SANTA GERTRUDIS
eANTA GERTRUDIS beef-
cattle, originating from the
King Ranch in Texas, are find-
ing increasing use in Australian
herds. The greatest strength of
this movement is in Queens-
land, where conditions are
tougher for cattle than in the
southern States, and where this
breed has already shown its
•adaptability to a rigorous
environment.
This writer recently toured
American Santa Gertrudis herds
in the company of such Aus-
tralian pioneers of the breed as
Barney and Raoul Joyce. The
Joyce brothers have their roots
deep in the cattle-country of
south-east Queensland, where
their father, Fitzpierce Joyce
(who introduced dehorning to
Australia), laid the foundations
of the present Eidsvold station.
Barney, the elder brother, is
an energetic extrovert, a con-
fident cattle-judge, and a keen
student and practitioner of pro-
gressive beef-cattle husbandry.
He has learned a lot from visits
overseas, and from men like Dr.
R. T. Clark, co-ordinator of the
beef-cattle research-programme
of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture and recent Fulbright
Lecturer in Australia, and G. I.
Alexander, senior cattle-
husbandry adviser of the
Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock.
Raoul, somewhat less self-
possessed, but no less knowledge-
able, has the practical cattleman’s
quick eye for stock and the
straight-backed walk of the man
who spends most of his life in
the saddle. Raoul took a ship-
load of horses to India in 1937,
and was impressed by the hardi-
ness of the Bos Indicus.
The Joyce properties coyer
an area of 100,000 acres —
Eidsvold, 40,000 acres on the
Burnett, and Gyranda, 60,000
acres on the Dawson-. The main
pasture on the Burnett is black-
spear, with other fine-stem and
better-quality grasses such as
Burnett-blue and red-top on the
better soils. The country is
heavily timbered—predominantly
eucalyptus, narrow! eaf- and
broadleaf-ironbark, with blue-
gum and apple in the creek-
pockets.
The Dawson country produces
better pasture, and the timber-
cover changes, with belts of
brigalow, ridges sparsely-
timbered with broadleaf-iron-
bark, and coolibah on the river-
flats. On both properties, soft-
wood and brigalow-scrub belts
have been developed and sown
with grass—Rhodes, green-panic
and buffel.
These areas have a carrying-
capacity of a beast to five acres,
but the overall capacity of the
properties is estimated at one to
20 acres, as there are areas of
range and inaccessible land.
In this 28in.-rainfall belt,
electric storms and monsoonal
rains have moulded steeply-
contoured land drained by many
gullies and creeks. The average
temperature ranges from 42.6 in
July to 90.4 in January. »Tick-
infestation is heavy, particularly
on the Dawson, and routine
dippings with D.D.T., B.H.C.
and arsenical preparations are
regular, time-consuming, chores.
Sandfly and buffalo-fly also
worry the stock in wet and good
seasons.
The Joyce theory, formed
some time ago, is that the cattle-
breeder should adopt the estab-
lished procedure of the plant-
breeder to develop stock suited
to the particular environment in
which it is grown. They think
it is unrealistic, and economically
unsound, to expect any British
breed, evolved in a vastly
different environment, to produce
beef in the rigorous conditions
of northern Australia.
What they saw abroad con-
vinced them that the Brahman or
Zebu had particular qualities
which enabled it to breed and
grow efficiently in humid
climates with heavy parasitic
infestatioijs.
Australian property-manage-
ment and marketing practices
indicated that the ideal animal
for local - conditions would be
one combining the hardiness of
the Brahman with the fleshing-
qualities of the British breeds.
Just what the ratio of one to
the other should be was the
problem presented to them and
other Australian cattlemen who
recognised the need for a Bos
Indicus infusion.
The Santa Gertrudis was the
answer. It combined Brahman
and Shorthorn blood in what
has proved to be an excellent
formula. It shows the inherent
Brahman disregard for high
temperatures—it will feed right
on into the hottest part of the
day without sign of distress.
Its ability to resist the blood-
sucking insects stemmed from
the Bos Indicus factors of short,
sleek coat; sebum-secretion
repellant; thin but dense hide ;
and highly developed skin-
muscles.
It has further showed a sur-
prising ability to forage in
country where other cattle won’t
go, while its Shorthorn-blood
infusion gave excellent fleshing-
qualities.
The introduction of the Santa
Gertrudis to Australia by the
King Ranch with the annual
Risdon sales enabled the Joyces
to purchase eight bulls which
have been introduced into their
purebred Hereford herd. In
addition, they have imported 10
purebred heifers from the
Armstrong Ranch, Texas, as part
of their programme of providing
their own breeding-herd for
future development.
The grading-up of the Here-
ford herd to Santa Gertrudis is
carried out on the three-herd
system recommended by the
King Ranch. The bulls remain
with the cow-herds in which they
are originally placed. The heifer-
crop from herd 1 replace cows in
herd 2. Those from herd 2 go
to herd 3 and those from the
latter to herd 1. Culling factors
in the programme will be: con-
formation ; growth-rate and
weight-gain ; fertility ; disposi-
tion, and milk-production.
Performance-testing will play
a major part in the plan. All
weaners will be weighed at nine
months, and again at 18 months,
to select replacement-stock. All
cows will be weighed at the
weaning of their first calf, when
they will be identified with their
calves, the latter being metal-
tagged.
To gauge the value of the new
blood, 17 Hereford steers and
an equal number of Santa
Gertrudis-Hereford-cross steers
were performance-tested, giving
the following results:
Av. weight in pounds
Date weighed Herefords Crosses
15/3/>55 (Age:
2/3 months) 256.3 , 277.6
21/4/>55 .. .. 312.5 349.0
16/5 / ’55 .. .. 335.5 375.8
14/10/’55
(Weaning) . 431.2 450.8
18/11/ ’55 .. 516.5 545.2
23 /12/’55 .. .. 534.3 * 574.1
27 /1 / *56 .. .. 571.6 660.6
2/3/>56 .. .. 629.7 724.0
6/4/’56 661.5 769.0
11/5/>56 .. .. 663.1 789.4
15/6/>56 .. .. 652.0 786.0
At the beginning of the test,
the average weight-advantage of
the crossbred steers was 21.31 b.
As the test progressed, they out-
stripped their competitors to
show a final advantage of 1341 b.
The Santa Gertrudis cross steers
gave an average gain qf 508.41 b.
compared with 395.71 b. for the
Hereford steers.
Questioned on subjects which
have created controversy
wherever' Santa Gertrudis are
mentioned, Barney and Raoul
Joyce gave the following
answers: “We have found the
Santa Gertrudis as docile and as
easy to handle as our Herefords.
It’s worth mentioning that we
have always eliminated . any
Herefords showing poor disposi-
tion, so they'would be considered
better - tempered than most
commercial herds.
“Fertility? Here are the
records of three of the Santa
Gertrudis bulls run under
natural conditions with their
cow-herds: Masterpiece, 60
cows, 59 calves. Kentucky King,
56 cows, 54 calves. President,
55 cows, 46 calves. An overall
percentage of ninety-three per
cent.” *■
Barry Kafer.
“Agricola,” writing from the
Queensland district which is the
headquarters of the Santa
Gertrudis in Australia, with
some interesting background:
In 1853 Captain Richard
King founded a ranch in Texas.
The land he occupied lay about
"Granddad's slippin' a bit—he used to be able to roll a
fag while he was doin' that!”
60 miles from the Gulf of
Mexico. He called it King
Ranch.
King stocked the range with
Longhorns, the tough, wiry
cattle whose ancestors had been
brought to the New World by
the Spaniards. They were hardy
cattle, but small-framed and,
when aroused, as wild as
brumbies.
The founder of King Ranch
was a shrewd cattleman. He
knew he wouldn’t go far in the
expanding meat-markets if he
stuck to the Longhorn, so, to
improve them, he started to
cross them with two British
breeds, the Hereford and Short-
horn.
As well as crossing these
breeds with the native cattle,
King built up two purebred
herds. They were not allowed to
mix, and by 1916 the ranch
boasted about 25,000 high-class
Shorthorns and a similar number
of Herefords.
King Ranch was able to
compare the two breeds under
the same conditions. Both were
streets ahead of the Longhorns
as far as beef went, but they
were not the final
Neither Hereford non Short-
horn did well on rough, sandy
country, and they were a sitting
shot for flies. Ticks and screw-
worms also made their life a
misery in wet seasons. During
this time of the year the calf-
drop would, fall as low as 40
per cent., and to cap it all the
British breeds, used to a cooler
climate, didn’t do well in the hOt
summers.
Although King Ranch had
come a long way since it intro-
duced the British breeds to build
up the quality of its stock,
what was wanted was a breed
that would top-off well despite
heat, flies, mosquitoes and ticks.
This was a tall order.
In the meantime, ranchers in
East Texas were experimenting
with the Zebu or Brahman. This
Indian breed was tolerant to
heat, hardy, and docile. Then, in
1910, a Shorthorn-Brahman bull
was given to King Ranch. He
was black and very big.
The bull was mated with pure-
bred Shorthorns and all the bull-
calves, except one, were
“steered.” The heifers were
turned out with Shorthorn bulis.
This' experiment gave the ranch
heart.
The part-Brahmans were tough
and didn’t mind the heat. They
seemed to hold their condition
in dry weather, and the cows
were good mothers. There were
no “dogies,” and the flies and
ticks found the Brahman hide as
tough as leather.
This was the best line of cattle
bred on the ranch up to that
time, but there were still faults.
The cattle were not uniform,
and dropped rumps, a
bad fault in the meat-trade, were
common. Still, it-was heartening.
The King Ranch people decided
the only thing to do was go
ahead and try to evolve a new
breed.
By 1918 the plan was taking
shape. A small mob of females,
descended from the half-bred
Brahman bull, were turned-out
with the bull that had been
saved.. This animal had been
called Chemera, and on the
soft, blackland mesquite-grass
the cattle, thrived and quickly
outstripped the tops of the Short-
horns and Herefords grazed
under identical conditions.
It was clear, then, that the
breed would be a cross between
Brahman and either one of the
two British breeds. The finger
pointed to the Shorthorn.
These were on the ranch.
There’d be no trouble to get
them, but the Brahman was a
different matter. As this is a
breed of many types, the only
thing left was to select animals
which were most characteristic
of the ideal in mind.
Fifty-two high-class bulls were
bought from A. P. Borden, a


Best
Mineral
Supplement
&
Ws
for alL stock foods, Tri-Cal-Os contains over
65 % tricalcic phosphate and a guaranteed
minimum of 30% phosphoric acid and
40% lime. Because there is little protein
and no fat in Tri-Cal-Os, you do not pay
for elements available in ordinary feeding
stuffs. Mixed with salt, Tri-Cal-Os makes
the really palatable and wholesomef’ lick.
I
CM
5TU«-" W
ftoo*
boh*
*dii-€a£6&
STERttJSEO
BONE FLOUR
65% TRI-CALCtC PHOSPHATS
Amy partlealan gladly tiippHad—
Writ. »• DAVIS GELATINES GAO Urn SStJL
SYDNEY • GAO. Ie> «05l. MELBOURNE • GAO.
la. 7I2F. ADELAIDE • GAO. to. JSIK. BRISBANE
• GAO. to. SU. PERTH
FROM LEADING STOCK & STATION AGENTS
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION
Established 1878.
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS r
AIiLEN' C. LE\tas (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. HERBERT M. DOUGLASS. MALCOLM C. DAVIS.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. N. E. MANION, Manager.
Branches in all States. Agencies in all Country Centres.,
Russian Comf rey
High protein fodder relished by
all stock and poultry. Very
drought resistant producing heavy
cuts right throughout summer.
Lasts for as long as 40 years yield-
ing up to eight cuts per year.
Excellent vegetable-herb for home
garden. Secure the 100 tons-an-
acre Giant Webster Strain that
has shown its suitability to Aus-
tralian conditions. Healthy,
vigorous planting material avail-
able in limited quantities for
autumn planting from pioneer
grower.
W. F. SAVAGE.
RED HILL SOUTH, VICTORIA.
PHONE 207
TILLEY
KEROSENE
PRESSURE
Rend.
|M± #fc\
: SS&.v
mm
i
wO>>>*-vXvvK*^w!^^’*‘ , T*‘'
lamps
J)urn
brighter
longer!
★ 100% BRITISH.
★ SOLID BRASS CONTAINER.
★ HIGHLY-POLISHED PLATED FINISH.
★ BURNS 12 HOURS ON PINTS
OF KEROSENE.
★ 300 BRILLIANT CANDLEPOWER.
★ FEW SPARES NEEDED.
Obtainable from all Good Hardware Stores
throughout Australia. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY (Pty.) LTD.
1092 MT. ALEXANDER RD., ESSENDON, VICTORIA.
leading breeder of Brahmans.
They were either three-quarters
or five-eighths pure. This was
the test. If the matings proved
successful, a new breed would be
bora. If not, the ranch would
be back to where it started with
its cross-breds.
It was plain enough what
breeds would be used. The
ticklish question was- —what
mixture of these breeds? Finally,
it was decided to try f Brahman
and | Shorthorn.
The Borden bulls were divided
among eight different herds
totalling 2500 selected-Shorthorn
cows. One of the sires was
mated with a cow in the milking-
herd. This cow had descended
from the original half-bred bull
by way of Chemera. She was
one-sixteenth Brahman. The
calf, a bull, was named
Monkey—he was to become
famous.
After the first outcross, the
Borden bulls were replaced with
animals bred on the ranch. As
the plan advanced, animals were
selected according to type and
performance.
The best red heifers from the
first outcross were mated to un-
related red bulls. Progress was
very steady until Monkey was
given a chance. Then things
really moved. Monkey’s sons
and grandsons were used on first-
cross and double-cross heifers,
and the breed was firmly
established by using in-and-in
and line-breeding.
The new breed had arrived, a
breed of cattle called Santa
Gertrudis after a grant given to
the land on which they were
bred. This grant had first been
given by the King of Spain.
Exactly 30 years after the
introduction of the half-bred
bull, the U.S. Government
recognised the Santa Gertrudis
as a distinct breed of cattle.
It wasn’t long before standards
for the breed had been laid-
down. Here are the main points:
A rich red color with the
minimum of white spotting on
the underline. The hair should
be short and straight, and the
hide thin and loose, with folds
of hide on the neck.
The points to be watched in
conformation are a symmetrical,
broad, deep body with strong
bone. The head should be broad,
with a straight profile and a
slightly convex, not dished, fore-
head. A clean-throated neck
with firm attachment to the
shoulders is desirable, and the
shoulders should be smooth.
A broad, prominent brisket
and deep x heart-girth are signs of
breeding, while the back should
be broad and level. A broad,
full loin and deep, well-sprung
ribs are points to look for, and
the ideal rump is long with a
moderate slope towards the tail
The rump should also be
broad, and slightly rounded on
top.
, These few desirable points are
sufficient to show that the accent
is on an ideal beef-carcass.
In Australia the home of the
breed is at Risdon, near
Warwick, Queensland. Here
King Ranch (Australia) Pty.,
Ltd., founded a stud which,
from a very modest beginning,
has already sent bulls to every
State in the Commonwealth and
to the Islands.
An annual sale held in
November attracts buyers from
all over the Commonwealth and
Islands, and prices as high as
2400 guineas have been paid for
bulls. These are being used to
breed-up herds, using mostly
Hereford and Shorthorn cows as
the foundation.
Drought Feeding
“Mobiland”: Several valuable
hints on the drought-feeding of
sheep with grain, our most easily-
harvested and -stored fodder—
and often the most plentiful—are
given in the recently-published
work of Sims and Webb of the
Victorian Department of Agri-
culture.
Their first experiment con-
firmed that even breeding-ewes
can lamb-down and rear their
lambs when their feed is put
out once a week instead of every"
day. The amount put out weekly
is, of. course, seven times the
poundage that would be put out
daily.
The ewes ate their week’s
ration in about five days and
managed to survive the rest of
the week until their appetites
could be satisfied. In fact, they
performed very nearly as well as
those getting something to eat
every day.
The next important fact was
that ewes could live, and in
some cases raise lambs, when
given less than lib. of wheat
a day each for themselves, and
less than extra when rearing
lambs. This ration was sufficient
even without much roughage—an
amazing result with ruminants
that like roughage.
These research-workers and
others had shown already that it
was a waste of time and money
to crush wheat before giving it
to sheep. A lick of ground-
limestone was available w'hen the
grain was being fed.
While we never want our sheep
to have to live under such condi-
tions, we now know how we
can expect them to perform
when we get another bad
drought.
The third important point was
that weaners which had been
too poor for sale as suckers
gained nearly 201 b. liveweight a
head between November and
March —a very dry period—on a
supplement of only 11b. of wheat
a day each. Double that amount
of wheat, and also of oats, didn’t
give much higher gains. *
Greatest and most continuous
gains were made when linseed-
meal was added to the 21b. of
wheat a day. As most of the
other lambs on grain alone were
saleable as fat-lambs, the use
of linseed or any other supple-
ment is apparently determined
by economics.
An interesting fact was that
most of the gains on the grain
alone were made in the first three
months, when the weight reached
apparently demanded something
more in the ration.
Lucerne-meal
“C.A.A.”: According to A. A.
McArdle, S.A. poultry-expert,
lucerne-meal holds the key to
better-quality eggs and healthier
stock without a significant
increase in feeding-costs.
McArdle says that poor yoke-
color and reduced quality of
eggs laid by birds fed only on
vitamin-A substitutes had
created problems for marketing
authorities and restricted
improvements of the home
market. *
Lucerne-meal could replace an
equivalent weight of mill-offal in
a mash and, if bought at the
same price as the offal, would
give a saving in feeding-costs
because a reduced quantity of
vitamin-A supplement could
then be used in the feed.
Lucerne-hay, produced in
many agricultural areas, could
be converted to meal with the
use of a hammer-mill, McArdle
points out.
Ten per cent, lucerne-meal by
weight in a mash fed with grain,
or 5 per cent. in> an all-mash
mixture, would make a complete
ration. A vitamin-A supplement,
added at a minimum rate of
joz. for every 1001 b. of total
feed when the product contained
10,000 units of vitamin-A per
gram, would cover deficiencies
in sun-cured lucerne-meal.
Record Families
“T.G.”: ' Apropos' “Blufire’s”
“M.0.L.” par. (B. 19/12/’56) on
a possible productivity-record
for a crossbred ewe which had
14 lambs in five years^—a ewe
on this New Zealand farm had
16 lambs in five years. It may be
a record, but perhaps others
could beat it. In the same issue,
on “Abo.,” a par. about record
dog families: J. Gibbons, of this
district, had a sheep-bitch a few
years ago that whelped 19 pups
in one litter and reared eight
of them.
Monsteria
“Myall”: One of the most
novel and interesting fruiting
plants in cultivation is the
Monsteria deliciosa, or fruit-
salad plant as it’s often called.
A native of Mexico, it will
thrive in the vicinity of Sydney
and northwards into the tropics ;
is a slow-growing creeper, and
is much used as a rockery-plant.
Given a rich, damp soil and an
abundance of water in dry
weather it produces large,
beautiful leaves, up to 2ft. long
and Ift. across, which are much
perforated throughout, while
cord-like aerial-roots grow down
from the stem.
The plant is propagated from
pieces of the stem, which should
be struck in a mixture of sand
and leaf-mould, half-and-half,
during the early summer. From
the time the young fruit appears,
12 months will elapse before it
is ready for the table. It is borne
on a long, rigid stem, is green,
cylindrical, and about 18in. long.
The fruit has a very agreeable
perfume and a delicious flavor,
far richer than the pineapple.
A strange feature of the fruit
is that it ripens in small sections.
When the skin begins to flake off,
the fruit should be picked and
kept indoors until the whole has
ripened.
Transplanting Machine
“C.A.A.”: Tomato-transplant-
ing machines developed in the
Renmark district of S.A. - save
time and labor. They consist of
a low-slung chassis drawn by a
tractor, with tines or disks for
making or back-filling a furrow,
a seat for the operator, a 44gal.
drum for watering the plants,
and a tamping-wheel to firm the
soil around the roots.
One driver and one man can
put in 1000 plants an hour, as
against 1000 a day by hand-
planting. A big percentage of
survivals has resulted from the
new method.
New Fat-lamb Breed
“Coowong”: A breed of sheep
being developed at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota (U.S.A.)
by Dr. R. E. Hodgson was
evolved from four breeds —
Shropshire, Columbia,
and Targhee. Targhee is derived
from Corriedale, Lincoln and
Rambouillet. All selections are
made in the office from records.
Selection of the ewe is made
purely on her ability to produce
top-quality lambs. At the
moment, wool-weight is being
disregarded. Sires are selected
on performance and heredity, the
main aim, at this stage, being to
select rams of twin-birth or from
ewes known to produce twins.
In this regard the breed looks
promising, as 147 per cent, of
lambs were weaned last year.
The drop averaged 801 b. or
better at 20 weeks.
It is interesting to realise that
no such experiment has been
attempted since the evolution of
our Corriedale in New Zealand
about 100 years ago.
This new breed is known as
Minnesota 102.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(27/1/’57)
Queensland should receive patchy rains during
February, although heavy falls may continue on thei
Peninsula, coast (central and north), and part of the
north-west. Heavy rain and widespread flooding is indicated
during March.
Apart from reasonably good rains on the south coast,
southern tablelands and far west, N.S.W. should be con-
fined to light to moderate patchy rains during February.
However, general rains are likely in March, with heavy falls
on the far north coast.
Victoria should receive moderate rain during February,
but part of the Mallee, west coast and Gippsland may be
confined to light rain. Fairly good rains are likely in March,
but April will probably be a poor month.
S.A. should receive general rains in February, although
tihe Mt. Lofty Ranges and south-east may be confined tot
tight rain. General rain should occur during March.
W.A. should receive heavy rains in the north-west and
Kimberleys during February, and, with the goldfields and
south-east the exceptions, good falls should occur elsewhere.
LENNOX WALKER.


SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Subscription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
f0r.... months’ subscription to “The Bulletin,” to
be posted weekly to—
NAME ..
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news-
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £2/18/6 Foreign ....
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep., Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
£3/8/-
'i Yt
Now you can FORGET your
RUPTURE
Thanks to
NEO-
BARRERE
No Pads —
No Springs
The NKO - PARKER f.
acts like a hand
when placed flat
upon the orifice.
You will at once,
without effort and
in all movements, control your hernia
with comfort and security. If cannot
be displaced by violent movement and
has proved completely successful by
all who have tried it.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE
barrere distribution CO.
(Dept. 3f). 243 Elizabeth St., London
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Company. Established 1862 ,
Head Office: GEOBOB AND HUNTER STKJffitfiTS, SIDNBT.
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DUNLOP (Chairman), SIR EDWARD R. KNOX. ORWELL
PHILLIPS, K. J, VICARS, O. GORDON RUSSELL.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurance* of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager. _
EAT YOUR CAKE
By E. M. BOND
AT half-past-three Miss
Browning nodded to the
juniors, and they went,
happily released, to make
the tea.
Mary Lou and Ann went on
typing, uncomfortably aware
that there was a presentation in
their honor. The indications
were too familiar for them not
to know, but convention
demanded that they should be
surprised, in spite of the paper
bag rustling in MiSs Browning’s
quarto - drawer and, earlier,
Janey’s late arrival back at lunch
time, unrebuked, with the afore-
said paper bag.
One by one the other girls
stopped work, lit cigarettes, and,
when the door opened to admit
the tea-tray, crowded round
Mary Lou and Ann. Miss
Browning unveiled the cake, and
there were little gasps of delight,
and wails from would-be dieters.
It was an enticing cake, bursting
with cream, and. frosted with
pale pink icing, Across the top
was written boldly, “Bon
voyage!” A tiny steamer sat in
the centre.-
The tea was poured, weak and
black for Miss Browning, strong
for Janey and Mary Loti,
middling for Ann, “as it comes”
for Ruth and Barbara, and the
last cup, really strong, for Mr.
Davey. And now Mr. Davey
emerged from, his office beaming,
as this was an occasion; to
accept a slice of cake and mingle,
kindly but uneasy, with his girls.
AT a quarter-to-four Miss
Browning glanced at Mr.
Davey, and he nodded, cleared
his throat, and stepped into the
centre of the room. A hush fell
on the office, and Mary Lou and
Ann turned pink with embar-
rassment and stared at their
shoes.
“Well, girls,” said Mr. Davey,
“once again we are sending-off
two of the staff, but this time
[smiling on Janey]—-er—not to
domestic bliss. I must say,
though, Mrs. Lee seems to prefer
her old job to the new. Ha! Ha! ”
Nobody laughed, and the
poor man, conscious of having
expressed himself very badly,
hurried on.
“At any rate, Miss Bacon and
Miss Holt, we sincerely hope
that after your travels we will
—er —welcome you, too, back
to your old jobs, but first and
foremost we wish you a very
happy trip and safe return.”
The girls clapped enthusiasti-
cally. It was a happy little office,
and they genuinely wished the
two travellers well.
Mr. Davey forgot his nervous-
ness and went on reflectively:
“You know, 1 envy you young
ladies. Here I am, waiting until
I retire before,l can think of an
overseas trip, and off you go,
without a care in the world. I
hope Mrs. Lee doesn’t leave her
new hubby and run off with you
tomorrow. Ah, well, we can’t
eat our cake and have it too,
can we?”
The juniors giggled and
nudged each other, remembering
that the boss had eaten two large
slices of cake, and Mr. Davey
finished :
“And so, on behalf of all the
girls, I want you to accept these
little tokens of our esteem.”
He stepped back, relieved, and
Mary Lou and Ann stumbled
over little speeches of thanks.
The gift travelling-kits were
admired, and then Miss Brown-
ing said briskly, “Well, back to
work, everybody!” and the
machines began to clatter again.
A FTERWARDS, in the wash-
room, Janey said goodbye to
Mary Lou and Ann. The fare-
well party, a week ago, had left
her unmoved, but now, knowing
that they were actually sailing in
the morning, she could hardly
keep the tears from her eyes.
The three girls had planned
this trip together, saved and
schemed, taken cut - lunches
instead of eating at the canteen,
and gloated over travel-posters
and shipping-office windows. So
many of their friends were taking
advantage of high wages and
full employment and saving to
go overseas that it was easy after
a while to deny themselves extra
clothes and outings.
Then Janey had met Jeff, and
had gained a new set of dreams.
The carefully-hoarded pounds
had been spent on household-
linen and a frothy trousseau.
How she had enjoyed buying
that, after doing without pretty
things for so long! She had been
blissfully happy, and read recipes
instead of guide-books. •
Mary Lou and Ann had been
her bridesmaids, six months ago ;
and, until now, Janey had had no
regrets. It was too much to
expect, however, that she should
remain serene on the eve of her
friends’ sailing, when their
feverish excitement infected the
whole office.
Warm-hearted Mary Lou
summed up Janey’s own feelings
when she hugged her and
whispered, “Goodbye, Janey
dear! I wish you were coming
too. It’d have been wonderful
if you’d met Jeff a year or two
later.”
You can’t eat your cake and
have it too.
Was it true*?
'T'HE small, persistent doubt
x stayed with Janey all the
way home. Mary Lou and Ann
would probably marry too, and
be just as happy as she was, but
they would have achieved their
ambition, and have such wonder-
ful memories.
“Oh bother!” thought Janey
crossly, as she stopped to buy an
apple-pie as Tonight’s Sweet.
“I’ll be glad when they’ve gone.
It’s all been so unsettling.”
She let herself into the neat
flat, and donned an apron. Jeff
wouldn’t be home for nearly an
hour, and usually she enjoyed
this time, preparing the meal,
and listening for his footsteps
on the stairs. Tonight she peeled
vegetables, put them in the
pressure-cooker and set the table
without any enthusiasm. It’s just;
plain jealousy, she told herself
honestly, but I do wish I were
going too.
She had once suggested to Jeff
that they save to go overseas
together, but he had been firm.
“We just can’t afford a trip
and a house, Janey, and you
don’t want to live in a flat
for ever, surely.”
He’d, been right, of course ;
Janey realised that, and she had
gone back to work to help their
home materialise, and pored
lovingly over architects’ plans.
Now she thought, Well, I’ll
never have another chance. It
only cofnes once in a lifetime,
and unless something happens
to Jeff, I’ll live and die in this
city.
TTORRIFIED, her mind raced
back over this thought.
Nothing must happen to Jeff,
please !j .
But the idea of freedom was
fascinating, and besides, she was
wrong—there had been another
opportunity to travel. Before
she had met Jeff there had been
Adrian, with feet as itchy as
hers.
“Marry me, Janey!” he used
to say jokingly. “You’ll really
go places. We’ll travel the world
together—on a shoestring, of
course, but then we’ll write a
book about it.”
Had he been serious? Janey
didn’t know, because she hadn’t
loved Adrian, and she had only
laughed.
One thing is sure, thought
Janey, stabbing at the pumpkin,
if anything did happen to Jeff,
I wouldn’t go on working for
old Davey, You can have it both
ways, sometimes.
She imagined herself as an
executive, with wonderful
clothes. Slim (Janey was just a
little plump), poised, and with a
melancholy beauty born of her
great sorrow.
Her eyes filled with tears as
she thought of this sorrow. She
flinched from dwelling on a
lifeless Jeff, but his untimely
passing was dramatic,
courageous. It happened on the
way home from his office. It
was a wet, treacherous night.
. Suddenly a child darted on to
the road, in the path of a car.
Jeff plunged after it and flung
the child clear, but the car struck
him. He lay on the footpath
bleeding (but not messily, and
he didn’t suffer). His last gasped
words were for her:
“Tell Janey . . . not to grieve
. . . too much!”
QR perhaps he would be struck
by some deadly disease, and
she would keep vigil by his bed.
She didn’t give way until he
passed-away peacefully, his
hand in hers, then she collapsed.
The doctor (young, with compas-
sionate brown eyes) murmured,
“My dear, don't! You made him
so happy while he lived.”
After a decent interval she
would meet Adrian one day on
the street, his deep voice saying:
‘‘ls it really you, Janey?”
As charming as ever, but more
mature, and a little sad. Saying:
“I am so very sorry about
Jeff, dear Janey.”
He steadies her as her eyes
fill with tears.*
“Please, Adrian, don’t let’s
talk about it.”
“I know, Janey, how you loved
each other. I have never
married, you know. Is it too
soon to — hope?”
She turns away, and the
reserve settles once again on his
face. In the following weeks,
they dine together, go to
concerts, the ballet. Then her
firm decides to send her to
Europe (via America), and she
finds she is a little sorry to part
with Adrian. He stands on the
tarmac as the'airliner leaves, and
she whispers:
1 “Perhaps, when I return!”
OUT first, this wonderful flight,
13 the courteous, smiling
hostess, the dainty meals.
Deep soft chairs, and below
the entrancing view of plains and
mountains ; then ocean. Australia
is left behind, and soon those
longed-for fairybook places are
realities. Honolulu, with its
brown, laughing people. Tropic
sun and blossoms, leis and lilting
music. San Francisco on a
golden ( spring morning, perfect
tor this enthralling moment of
landing in the United States ... . .
Fabulous New York, with the
Statue of Liberty, familiar
through countless movies, yet so
awe-inspiring still. Broadway
and nightclubs, Hollywood and
meeting the stars, fascinating
little things like eating sand-
wiches from a slot-meter, just
standing to watch the people,
girls smart as paint, negroes,
cute children looking as if they
posed for magazine - covers;
listening to the strange new
voices. Looking marvellous
everywhere, in her select travel-
wardrobe ...
Then England, tranquil after
America, and just how she
always wanted it to be. Historic
London, ch-anging-of-the-guard,
waiting outside Buckingham
Palace to see the Queen and the
children, riding on those lumber-
ing double-decker buses, seeing
it all come deliriously true at
last. . .
Paris and the Eiffel tower,
dress salons, the Riviera, glitter-
ing sun and sea and socialites,
and everywhere wonderful,
exotic food
Food!
TANEY sniffed, appalled. The
” dinner would be ruined.
I’m a morbid, faithless fool!
she thought, amused, but guilty,
and looked at the clock.
Jeff was late, very late.
Usually he was home well before
dark, and the early night had
already' settled.
“Dear God!” she thought in
sudden anguish. “You wouldn’t
take me seriously, would You?”
Darling Jeff—as if she could
ever marry anyone else! What
would the whole world be
without him?
She was weeping bitterly when
Jeff bounded up the stairs. He
stopped in amazement, and she
flung herself into his arms.
“Oh Jeff,” she wailed, in a
mixture of relief and remorse.
“I do love you, I do .”
“Why, sweetheart!” said Jeff.
“Of course you do. What’s the
matter? I know I’m late, but this
is a bit unexpected.”
Jenny sniffed against his coat.
“I thought something had
happened to you.”
Jeff laughed, exasperated, but
tender. Soft-hearted little thing,
he thought. What on earth would
she do if something had
happened?
Aloud he said, “I met a man,
that’s all, and we had a few
beers. I’m sorry, darling. I
didn’t realise it was so late.”
He kissed her, and everything
was safe and sweet again.
T ATER, over the washing-up,
'*- J he said casually, “I nearly
forgot. The fellow I met was
your old flame, Adrian
Whatsisname. Remember him?
It seems he got married a few
months before we did. Couldn’t
refuse to celebrate with him —he
was half-silly with parental
pride. His wife’s just had twins.”
DESERTED CITY
CHURCH
Oh how the Past can stare
Sightless from this church
And stare the visor out
Of your thought’s search .
Here is Silence thick with Time:
It issues \ from the wall
And issues from the tower
Whose gesture ignores all
The city’s noise and fall,
But perishes for sound
Of its bell-call . . .
Oh how the Past can stare
The sight out of your search
And leave a trance upon
This huddled church-
In coma like the air
That cannot hold it all
But snaps its tissue there.
You feel it in your breath —
The flavor of this death,
That is the air of some
dhost in its martyrdom.
Q-
JOHN HENDERSON.


THE NANCY MITFORD
OMNIBUS
An attractive edition containing three full-
length novels —The Pursuit of Tore, Rove
in a Cold Climate and The Blessing.
20/- (post 1/4)
ROMAN TALES
by Albert*! Moravia—nineteen short stories
of the slums and poorer parts of Rome.
15/6 (post 1/-)
A GRAVE FOR A DOLPHIN
by Alberto Denti dl Pirajno—more
African tales from the author of A Cure
for Serpents.
18/9 (post 10d.)
TRIAL BY ORDEAL
by Caryl Chessman. The author of Cell
2455, Death Kow tells what it’s like to be
under sentence of death.
22/6 (post 1/2;
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.,
66-68 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE, C.l.
MF 6466.
Collins
NEW ENGLISH DICTIONARY
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND EDITION
Specially produced by COLLINS for Australia, this last word
in modern dictionaries with its wealth of supplementary
material is an indispensable asset for home and office. 31/-.
Available shortly ORDER YOUR COPY NOW From All Booksellers
hospital-executive he is shocked by the
contamination of the waters there; but
the spirit of Lourdes nevertheless seems
to have so impressed him as to have
given him religious faith. What
impresses him, in short, is not the
faith of those who hope to be healed
but the continuing faith of those who
know they will not be healed.
After the Germans had taken over
the American Hospital in Paris and
confiscated all Dr. Bove’s instruments
he returned, practically penniless, to
America, where he takes leave of the
reader from his practice on Long
Island.
The Mirrool
District histories tend to be a little
dislocated, and Bygoo and Beyond, by
Rob Webster (privately printed), the
story of the Mirrool Creek district west
of Temora, is no exception, and can
plead uncommon hardship in addition.
For the Mirrool, Merool, Mirool,
Mirrule or Murrill, running east-west
and west-east through it and between
the Murrumbidgee and the Lachlan,
does not flow into anything but itself;
all it does is, frequently, dry-up. This
makes for good seasons and swamps,
and poor seasons and vicious droughts,
so that in the early days of the
squatters the big runs were used mainly
as auxiliaries for good seasons.
Thus the early history of the
runs, Ariah, Warri. Moombooldool,
Quandary, Cowabee, North Bolero,
Buddigower, Barellan South Yalgo-
grin, is a history of sell-outs —
Cowabee was said to have changed
hands for a cow—and take-overs by
banks and city-financiers; so that the
names on the transfers are no more
than a key to the title-holders and
have little reference to the people who
did the work on the runs. The only
family of early squatters still in
possession are the Stewarts of Bygoo,
and they were late-comers, in 1874.
It was on the future Bygoo property
that another Stewart, son of a Bathurst
landowner, collapsed while with a
party prospecting for new lands 31
years before, saying “Go on, save your
own lives, I’m done”; and much later
his cooking-pots were found and are
still preserved at Bygoo homestead-
The first owner of Bygoo was William
O’Brien, late of the Royal Irish
Constabulary, who was there about
1857. Previously, as a farmer deter-
mined to grow wheat in the Temora
district, he achieved fame by walking
60 miles from Gundabindyal to
Binalong carrying his heavy steel
ploughshare to be repaired. The kind
of seasons the Stewarts had to contend
with are shown by the old wool-books:
18,000 sheep shorn in 1875, for
instance, they fell to 5250 in 1877;
they rose to 14,279 in 1880, fell to
8000 in 1881, arid were 26,485 in 1890.
Two of the great achievements of
the district were the first breeding of
kelpies by John D. Gleeson, overseer
of Bolero, from a black-and-tan sheep-
bitch, called Kelpie, bred on the
Glenelg from imported stock and a
black dog called Moss bred from stock
imported from Scotland; and John
Alexander Gunn’s attack upon anthrax,
which, for example, in 1885, on three
N.S.W. stations running about 200,000
sheep, killed 42,000 sheep, 500 cattle
and 60 horses.
Gunn was manager of Yalgogrin for
R. Goldsbrough and Co., at a
time when Pasteur had been dickering
for £38,000 for permission to use his
serum, and Arthur Devlin had
persuaded the French to make the
vaccine in Sydney. Gunn took a hand,
boiled-down old sheep for “soup” into
which the anthrax-culture could be
introduced, and eventually produced a
serum that was efficient after only one
dose, not two as had previously been
necessary.
The Mirrool district had its share
of bushrangers; Gilbert, Hall, Blue-
cap, etc.; and one thoughtless traveller
spent a pleasant evening by the road-
side yarning with none less than
Morgan. But the district’s great story
of derring-do is the story of how
Joseph Annand, after building-up the
Murrill Creek run to 24,000 sheep, got
into difficulties, had the place sold over
his head by his backers to a mortgage
company and retired to Narrandera
in 1893. There, it seems, he brooded
until 1899, when he got a few men
together and took possession of the
station, “probably believing that
possession might strengthen his case.”
News of this being brought to
George Gow, who was managing both
Moombooldool and Murrill Creek, he
recruited thirty shearers who did
the seventeen miles on buggies and
horseback, boiled billies as they
waited for dusk, and then attacked.
A mounted member of the home-
stead garrison, riding out to
round-up the attackers’ horses, was
chased away with waddies; an attacker
jumped on the back of a fully-armed
sentry at the rear of the homestead;
and then battle was joined with spades,
pitchforks, swingle-bars and fists.
Leaving a small garrison, the vic-
torious Gow rode back to his shearing,
but two days later Annand recaptured
the station. Gow again galloped into
action, but this time talked the
defenders out of battle. At a subse-
quent court action the decision went to
Gow.
The district is also famous for the
Beehive Hotel, in the Ariah Park run,
which eventually devolved upon one
Donald Cameron, whose daughter,
Mary, left home at thirteen to teach in
schools, and is now known as Mary
Gilmore —Kendall, she says, wrote
“The Last of His Tribe” at the Beehive
a year before he died; and it has its
own Terrible Billy, so-called because
he used the word “terrible” in every
sentence. When he was away on a
hawking trip his wife died and they
buried her under a pepper-tree at the
front-door of their shack. “Such a
place,” he said, “to put her. Every
time I steps out of me front door I
finds her under me nose.”
There is also the great dust-storm
of January 19, 1915, in heat as much
as 115 degrees, when you could only
see a few inches, in the middle of a
roaring gale; and the mouse-plague of
1917, when mice collapsed a stack of
480,000 bags of wheat, and when they
were carried off by the drayload from
kerosene-tin traps; and there is the
paddock on Buddigower run that was
so big that a tank was lost on it for
seven years.
Mr. Webster tells the usual story of
Australian development: the rise and
fall of the squatters, the growth of
small selections, the coming of the
wheatgrowers—they began about 1871
with a Noonan, and went on to the
Fishers, the Gemmells, the McCaigs,
etc. —and has something to say about
the Mallee Hen goldmine on Murrill
Creek station and the Ardlethan tin-
mines; while J. J. Griffin, of Ariah, adds
an appendix of mining, mailmen, the
old hotels, early residents, first post-
masters, schoolteachers and bakers,
and noteworthy shire-councillors and
committeemen.
Art and Scrap
John Petty of Five Fags a Day, “the
Last Year of a Scrap-picker” (Seeker
and Warburg), has evidently been
himself a seeker on English slag-heaps
eighty-feet high for solid iron,
aluminium, brass or copper that can
be bagged and wheeled on a bicycle
to a near-by dealer and sold for any-
thing from ss. to 30s. a load—a 30s.
day for the narrator and his pal Eddie
is a miracle to be much celebrated in
beer.
When the publishers accuse Mr.
Petty of poetry on the jacket they speak
very truly; it is a bare poetry of exact
observation such as, early in the book,
when the factory-owner is patrolling
the slag-heap and the scavenger is
hesitating whether to go boldly on or
to retreat, and the writing brings it
home to the reader how closely a human
being can resemble a rat. There is a
Chaplinesque poetry of motion in the
description of Ernie, who worked in
the twilight at terrific speed after Big
Carl, the bully who claimed a slag-heap
as his own, had gone:—
But Ernie never stopped moving,
and all the time the slag was sliding,
for with a crack! and a crack! and
a crack! went his hammer against
every piece of slag it could reach.
No knockabout comedian and no
juggler in the world could have come
anywhere near Ernie’s performance.
He would fall from his bike, grab
the thin sack draped over his
handlebars, pull his hammer from
from his pocket and —hammer in one
hand, the sack hanging open from
the other —run at the tip, give a
little jump and go sliding down' the
bank. That action set the slag
moving—it was about four inches
thick, in slabs about the size of a
radiogram-lid, but it moved as easily
as pebbles. Near the end of his
slide Ernie gave a little twirl,
skipped across the moving slag to a
stationary load and lashed out with
his hammer. But almost as soon as
Ernie landed on it the stationary load
began to move, and—with a crack!
and a crack! —he would jump across
it to the next 10ad.... .and with every
second... ..his little black eyes
fluttered more fearfully to the path
up which Big Carl might come....
There is another magnificent picture
here of a psychopathically drunken
wife and mother who knocks her
husband about and the earnest young
doctor who tried to do something
about it; and, to make a novel of it,
a study of Kathy, a strong and beauti-
ful girl not yet left school, who comes
after school to work on the slag-heaps
and falls heavily for the narrator.
When he is seeing Kathy objectively
the narrator does very well indeed,
even up to the late scenes where they
are both scrabbling for scrap at night
in the winter snow; but as he begins to
fall for her, not only his perception of
them both, but his writing, coarsens—
and what began as something worthy
of H. G. Wells at his best deteriorates
to the cheap romanticism of Ethel M.
Dell; and, worse, to something like a
caricature of popular romantic writing.
Which is a pity. Mr. Petty could be
a relief from the brilliant and super-
ficial university-wits who have taken-
over the English novel in the past
twenty years or so.
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 420
Across
1—’Who promotes inflation with a
little American dough and
bread? (12)
B—Cud-chewers’ antirums. (9)
10— What a Maori may swing with
Lou when dropping nothing
but a French soldier. (5)
11— One is going to the United
Kingdom town in N.S.W.’s
north coast region. (3)
12— From French turf information,
the age does these wild law-
breakers. (11)
13— They offer no thanks in hearth-
ware. (8)
14— You might weave a basket
from such a pair of famous
fighting forces, one of them
coming back. (6)
17—Where the Queen might sit and
brood, according to Heming-
way. (6)
19—They make copra-producer’s
businesses crazy. (8)
22 I fault Bluey. (anagram) (11)
23 Indian river is let back. (3)
24 Temporary substitute is not
enough for * a Mordialloc
, umpire. (5)
25 Sauce. (9)
27—Asche’s wives might have
reckoned themselves such, but
none wound the west gloves
used in ’keeping honored film-
stars. (5-7)
Down
1 — Crop up with you and hanker
after a quill-grower. (9)
2 Mother Menzies is acting in a
mask. (7)
3 One changed in time. (3)
4 Nut money we put up. (6)
5 Tending to explain a former
plan associated with a conserva-
tive. (11)
6 Begin a golf round greeting
with a swell. (3, 3)
7 Conveyance’s kiss. (4)
9—A sitting bird accommodated by
17-across. (6)
12 —When play ends, a cricket-
umpire does a dentist’s sign?
(5, 6)
15 — They forgive seafaring cross-
word experts. (9)
16 — Puppet composition coming in
a lump. (6)
18 —Shading is taken from a
nuisance. (6)
20 — International present, for
example, is relaxed. (7)
21— Among other places, the A.I.F.
fought in this battered A.I.F.
car. (6)
22—A howler who tries to force
share prices up a target. (4)
26 —Put on a college fellow. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 419


BOOTS
Aust Army Boots. Brand New.
Size 9,7, 4. Colour Tan. Price
35/- pr.
American Army Boots, ;4 szes.
TO, 11, 12, 13. Colour, Suede.
Price 40/- pr.
The best heaviest quality Black
Work Boot, with steel toe and
heel plate and heavy toe cap.
Price, 52/6 pr. All sices. Post
on all boots, 3/6 pr.
Tubular Steel
Folding Stretchers
Suitable for residential®, shearers’
sheds. Diamond wire. Every
bed guaranteed.
Priced at 37/6 ea.
GOOD CONDITION
STEEL BABY COTS
m
Double Drop Sides —in perfect
condition.
Price £6/5/-
Brand new mattresses to suit
Cots, 25/- each.
MATTRESSES
Ex-Army Mattress, 2ft. 6in.
and 3ft. Price 30/- ea.
Ex-Army Combination
Tables
Complete with stool attached.
Overall size 7ft. long'. Ideal
for garden parties, £4/IQ/.
Mess Rooms, etc. ' '
Marine SPOTLIGHTS
A
All Brass Mountings on Swivel
Brand new. Price £6/5/- each
Many uses.
PUMP
All Brass
anti Gun-
metal.
C o nipletc
with
S t rainer.
Brand
KIT BAGS
Heavy Duty
Canvas,
10/6
Post 3/- extra
Paperhangers
Brush
Price 19/6
Shaving Brushes
Ex-army. One type
only.
Price 3/6 each
Post 9d extra, or 36/.
don.
Shirts
Brand
New
Shirts
12/6
51?,?
Brand new ex-army Shirts. OS
dzes only. A summer special.
Price. 12/(1 ea. Thousands
must he sold. Post- 1/6 ea.
BRAND NEW FLYING HELMETS
m
m
<*o
fc\\i
\
fu
/
)ft leather Chamois lined,
leal motor cyclists, etc.
Price 25/ - each
All sizes. Tost 1/9 extra.
TEA & HOT WATER URN}
10 gal.
capa-
city.
Used
but ex-
cellent
condi-
tion.
Price
£6/10/
ea.
If
y
FOLDING STOOLS,
Wooden
FOLDED
To suit the Ol't. x 3ft. Folding
Tables. For caterers, week-
enders, etc.
27/6 each
BICYCLE PUMPS
Bicycle Pumps. Brand New. Price,
8/6. Post 2/- extra.
Price 8/6
oY: ;
W
ha
Dessert, Soup, Teaspoons,
Forks, 10/- doz. Ideal lor
Caterers, Guesthouses, etc.
GOGGLES
Brand New Flying
Goggles. Complete with"
Sun Visor Window
Type. Snug Fitting and
complete with all spares.
25/- pr. Post, 2/6 extra.
Com. Artisl
BRUSH SET
Price 1,5/- set
1/6 Post.
SLOUCH HATS
•-
Ex-Army reconditioned)
blocked and cleaned hats 3
all sizes, price 25/- each.
Ex-Army damaged Slouch
Hats. Blocked and cleaned.
All sizes. Price 17/6. Post
2/6 extra on all bats.
Wheel Barrow and Trailer
Wheels. Complete unit inch
tyres, wheels, tubes and
bearings.
Size 16 x 4.
Price complete £6/10/-.
30 SPANNERS
in FREE Tool Box.
TOOL
BOX
V mixinee of SO spanners ii
Free Tool Box. Comprising
>peu ender, ring and tube
Price £5/5/-
OIL MINT
PAINT
OIL
EE 50
OIL
base
HALF PRICE PAINT
LOOK AT THE MANUFACTURER.
BALM AND COVERWELL RED
LEAD IN OIL (4 gals.)
TAUBMANS LIGHT GREY (4 gals)
Clyde Lightstone and Cream (5
gals.). All one price, 30/- gal.
Taubmans Chocolate (5 gals). Balm
Green in 4 gals. Price 20/- gal.
Bergers Black in 5 gals., 50/-.drum
White, Green and Red Lacquer (5
gals.) 20/- gal.
All paint true to label.
STOCKS AND DIES
U
'LI
s>
r v n
■mm
B.A. STOCKS & DIES
Complete set in wooden con-
tainer. Brand new.
Price £4/5/- set.
Corrugated Industrial Hose
Suction — Vi’ long and 2 1
ternal diameter. Price 37/G,
Petrol Hose, no fittings,
35/- LENGTH.
HESSIAN
BINDING
BRAND NEW
90yds x 2in in each roll.
PRICE 2/6 per roll.
Ideal for Manufacturers as
wrappings, upholsterers, etc.
American Army
Jungle Hammock
Completely Waterproof. Fully
zippered, complete with Mos-
quito netting and all ropes.
Brand New £B/10/- each'.
Post I/- extra.
TYRES and MOTOR
ACCESSORIES
Special
Size
Tyres
at
Special]
Prices!
PRICE
UNIT £l6/1(1
Jik
unto
m
m
m
m
MI
ism
■
TROUSERS
EX-
ARMY
Brand
new
in
Sizes 38
40, 42
waist.
30/-
pair.
Terrific
value.
Ex-Army TarpauSins
f i
Size 24 x 18 £ ‘fV «/'
Size 18 x 12 £l2/10
Size 15 x 12 £ 10/0/1
Size 12 x 10 £l/10/1
Size 10 x 8 £O/0/0
Size 8 x 6 £3/o/0
ALL EYELETS REINFORCE!
Every Tarp repaired if nece
sary and in perfect conditio:
A FIRST-CLASS BUY.
CMB WINCHES—3-Ton
Crab band Winches, double pur
chase capacity 3-ton. Brant
new. PRICE £ 55.
errc
K/T *S
Rifle Special
for Riflemen and
Rifle Clubs. I
Cleaner, X Bando-
lier, 1 pit. Rifle
Oil, Rifle Scab-
bard.
Price, lot, 39/6.
AII ex-army.
Skid Chains
Skid chains, brand nee
AH sizes to suit. From
800 x 16 to 1050 x 20. In-
cluding all Blitz Sizes up
to 1050 x 16 and 1050 x
18. Price per set
£8/10/-
Armco Culvert Piping
Brand new in bundles of 10.
Makes approx. 10 running feet.
HALF PRICE
95/- bundle
Wooden Tool Boxes
TOOL BOXES
£5
&
r>/Z.€
2/o'x/x6
STEEL
40 x 12 x 6
20/
SPANNERS
I! i
I
8 SAE in Leather. Tool Roll.
Era ml New. Price 45/- set.
INTERNATIONAL AXLES
Z Types—Wartime Models. Price £2/10/- each
PLEASE WRITE NAME & ADDRESS PLAINLY AND IN BLOCK iv.jcvo
No C.O.D. MAIL. PHONE, OR CALL No C O D.
Add Exchange to Cheques. When delivered at Siding, please add Freight.
Kim
m
*adcUeAif
122-124 Devonshire St.
Sydney
WRITE FOR POST FREE CATALOGUE
A few doors from Elizabeth Street, near Central Station,
Phones, FA7691 FA9155, MX3954. After hours only: MX1269,
ILCATH El? GOODS -TYRES
GfNERAL MERCHANTS
STARTER MOTORS
CHEV.
assSsussazs
Starter Motors Chev. Foot
Contact Type, £B/10/-
Solonoirl Type, £9 10/
Brand New.
MM
Crown Wheel
8 Pinion (Chev.)
(5.39, (5.43 and 7 x 38 Ratios.
£l2/10/- per unit. Brand new.
FORD GENERAfORS
BRAND NEW
FVice
£l3/10/-
jm
ms#
Five gall. drums
Balm Engine Clean-
ing Compound.
Ideal for garages,
home mechanics,
etc. Merely apply
with brush and
hose off with water.
Cleans the greasiest
of engines.
Trice £2/5/- 5-gall,
drum.
Telephone Wire, lira ml New'
I’riee £ 5/10/- j>er mile. £l/10/
440yds. foils.
<Pfe
(gg—-
SSet of 3, Wire Cutters,
Fencing: Fliers, handy
sized Bolt Cutters. The 3
£2/10A
lyres S 8 p.c. new, 10 ply rating, sizes 825 x 10 t
‘ 'tyres wheel and tubes off 25 pound guns. These
tyics will fit the Lawton Fork Lift Truck and
scammel Mechanical Horses. Suitable for trailer
bUJlder, house removers and anywhere there is
hard work. The heavier the load the better. At
the present time these are being used by a large
Glass Company and Breweries. First to see
his unit will buy.
THIS No; FOR TYRES: MX3954
NEW
■GO x 13 x 6 ply £l4/-/-
825 x 10 x 10 ply £l7/10/.
700 x 20 x 6 ply £l3/15/-
350 x 20 x 6 ply £l6/10 -
600 x 20 x 8 ply £l4/10/-
750 x 18 x 8 or 10 ply £l6/10/-
750 x 16 x 8 ply £l4/15/-
Also Second-Hand Tyres in Stock.
STOCK REMOULDS
700 x 20—10 ply £l2/17/6 ea.
750 x 20—10 ply £l5/15/9 ~
825 x 20—10 ply £B/10/6
900 x 20—10 ply £24/4/3 „
1000 x 20—12 ply £26/10/3 „
1100 x 20—12 ply £3O/16/6 „
Every Size Stocked. Write for Quote.
IDEAL
ICE
CHEST
HOT
BOXE3
Ex-Army Hot Boxes in perfect
condition. Heavily insulated
to keep contents either hot
or cold. Priced £5/10/-. Size
30 X 17 x 15. DON’T DELAY—
THESE
MAY NEVER
REPEATED.
BE
{jaeaHiK
24 shirt holes, east iron. FORD
Brand New Cylinder Head
Gaskets to suit the 24 Stud
Hearts. Price 7/6 each.
Post l/~ extra.
Brand New to suit 52 Model
Dodge, Plym. and De Soto.
Price £2O/*/. each.
Also in Stock, Ford Radiators
with 4in. Core, suitable for
stationary engine, etc.
£22/10/0.
BRAND
NEW FORD
CYLINDER
HEADS.
:
£lO/10/- ea.
HOMES, GARAGES, WEEK ENDER
BUILDINGS FOR SALE
m
.V
§
Ex-Army Igloo-type Buildings, one
size only, 56 x- 20, in excellent
condition. Can be easily erected
by two men.
Price £250
No ends supplied.
EX-ARMY
COTTAGE TYPE
TENTS
(8-man.) Will stand any
weather. Made from Olive
canvas and in perfect con-
dition. All ropes attached.
Price £l5/10/- ea.
20 x 12 Flys £l2/10/ extra.
-
Cwt. Bag Nails
7 gauge brand new at
nice. 65/- BAG.
KX-VIOIV. IlliAM)
BREAD CUTTERS
Ideal lor Guest Houses,
Caterers. Perfect condition.
Price 25/- ea.
