

~ i
: ...
/ -
ill
e
SOLERO
WEET OR DRY
The Bulletin
Economics and Finance— pages 20 and 27
Wednesday, July 17, 1957
Price 1/.
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
Jlegrstvfed in Australia for transmission by post as a newspaper.
MMEREWORTH CASTLE, KENT.
IN the; wooded and unspoilt countryside Irelow
W rot ham Hill, near West Mailing, in Kent,
stands Mereworth Castle—an outstanding example
of a Pailadian villa which is open to the public
at certain times. Although the exotic architecture
of Mere-worth is an style to see in the
heart of the- English countryside, its weathered
exterior blends hai moiiidusly with the Kentish
landscape.
Mereworth was built between the years 1720 and
1725 for the Hon. John Fane, who distinguished
himself in Marlborough's campaigns and who later
became the 7th Earl of Westmoreland. • The
building stands near the site of an .earlier castle
dating from the reign of Edward II (1307-1327)
of which no trace now remains. Even the old
inoat has disappeared from view from the broad
flight of steps which lead to the north and south
porticos of the existing mansion.
Mereworth is renowned for its lavish interior
decoration in plaster work, marble and tapestry,
the whole edifice costing £lOO,OOO to build. Lead-
ing Italian artists of the time, including Bagutti
and Altari, were employed to stucco the great
domed Hall and to paint the ceilings on the first
floor. So richly are the rooms decorated that
they hardly need any other furnishings, although
specially-woven tapestries were made to cover the
walls of the state bedroom and the cardroom. ■
Opposite the spacious entrance hall is the Fong
Gallery, grandest of all the state rooms. The;
vaulted ceiling was painted by the English artist,
F. Slctcr, and the prevailing colours are grey, gold,
and pink. Here, too, can be seen two marble..
chimney-pieces, tables and chairs desigried by'
'William Kent.
No. 358: the Homeland Series by the House of Seppelt.


£7O
FOR SHORT
STORIES SOLD
WHILE STILL ENGAGED ON
HER COURSE!
This was the experience of A STOTT
Student airs. J. Penna.
STOTT’S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
Successful STOTT-trained writers contri-
bute regularly to the press.
If you have the urge to write and the
ability to express your Thoughts on paper
you can learn at home, and earn in your
spare time.
°, u ,r I l i . teiary Prospectus is sent without
obligation to all interested in AA'riting
AY rite for your copy today; use the Coupon.
Stotts Correspondence College
100 Russell St., Melbourne: 149 Castlereasrh St
Sidney; 290 Adelaide St., Brisbane; 21'Grenfeii
St., Adelaide; 254 Murray St., Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT’S: Please send me, without any obli-
gation, your Prospectus, and full particulars of
your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
(SB- 1457) AGE
Box 2671, G.P.0.,, Sydney.
A service for readers. That difficult to
volume, let us find it for you--fiction.
book, biography, bistory, etc. Moderate
only if successful.
The Red Page
ANTARCTIC REVELS
In a second edition of his
reminiscences of the Australasian
Antarctic expedition of 1911-14, South
With Mawson (Angus and Robertson),
first printed in 1947, Charles Francis
Laseron, F.R.Z.S., shows that he can
be as entertaining with people as, in
his superb study “The Face of Aus-
tralia,” about rocks.
It was not as a geologist that he
sailed with Mawson but as assistant
biologist. His business was the skinning
and preserving of skins of seals and
birds and penguins, and the lending
of a hand at dragging the sea-bottom,
under the ice, for marine specimens.
There are some good observations
about emperor-penguins that have to
be fallen-upon and wrestled with,
whose flippers are so strong that they
can break your arm (“The two breast-
muscles when removed gave us thirty-
six pounds of solid meat”), and the
disgusting habit the petrel family has
of spitting, i.e., regurgitating their
dinners when annoyed and hurling “a
blob of orange-red oily matter” at their
enemies, very hard to get off clothes.
Mr. Laseron describes the main
journeys made by various parties over
the ice and snow inland, the almost
unbelievable feats of endurance when
the fur inside sleeping-bags was
covered with ice, and winds blew nine
times faster than any wind has ever
blown in Sydney, so fast that they
would have flattened the whole city.
He concludes with a retelling of the
famous story of Mawson’s return to
base, Ninnis lost down an unfathom-
able crevasse, Mertz dead of exhaus-
tion, Mawson himself lucky to retrieve
himself from a hole in which he fell,
supported by only the rope to his half-
a-sleigh; and there is a fine picture of
Mawson, early in the piece, diving
naked into 6ft. of water at 30 degrees
—“that is below the freezing-point of
fresh water”—to retrieve a case which
they thought might be the missing part
of the stove but turned out to be full
of jam-tins.
But the charm of the book is in its
recreation of the devices that kept the
party cheerful; the medals the
incorrigible practical - joker Frank
Hurley contrived to reward some
lugubrious exploit; the ill-fated English-
man Ninnis’s first effort at cooking
when, quadrupling a recipe to serve
the 18 men, he put in Boz. of pepper
and Boz. of salt. When it was Mawson’s
turn to cook he said to Laseron, known
as “Joe”:—
“Joe, come here and I’ll show you
how to make blancmange.”
I looked on for a while and the
doctor explained the process, until,
happening to look at the packet, I
remarked: “Why, here are the
directions on the packet.”
“Oh, yes,” remarked the doctor
airily, “those are what I am fbllow-
ing, but what is most important is
the technique of the thing.”
Frank Hurley, says Laseron,
would deliberately make pastry tough,
so that it would stand up in the form
of a ship or some grotesque shape. He
would also go to great trouble with
lengths of rubber-tubing to make
noises-off that made some worried
member of the party believe the heater
would blow-up. There were set-pieces:
a play in which Dr. Stakanhoiser
operated on Madame Fuclose; and a
custom developed of the cook-for-the-
day writing and singing a song, always
rather crude and often very rude; for
instance, on Mertz’s birthday:—
From Svitzerland a man dere came
Und Xavier his name vos.
Avay down south to go he has
Der reason is becos
He’s far too fond of all ze gals.
Und zey luf him, you know,
For ven he say may 1 come mit,
Zey smile und say, “Vat Ho!”
The excellence, of course, is not so
much in the songs as in the way in
which Laseron uses them to put
the reader in that snow-bound hut
among thqt brave company.
For Kenneth Mackenzie
Ahoy! Mackenzie,
Wherever you are—
Hand on a bottle,
Eye on a star;
Found in the river,
Happy, but drowned.
Go, Mackenzie, and look at a star,
And tip the bottle wherever you are—
Gone from us now, but I’ll be bound,
What you were looking for
You have found.
N.S.W.
G, Aria.
A Leg for the Chair
The Poetry Society of Australia, or
New Poems 1956, or First Anthology
1956 —it is impossible to make out
from the cover, title-page or strange
grey half-title-page exactly what the
title of this book is-MS an exceedingly
mixed little collection of poems put
out by the Poetry Society of Australia,
dedicated to Dame Mary Gilmore and
limited to 250 copies of which 150 are
signed by Mary Gilmore, Pro-
fessor W. Milgate and Miss Imogen
Whyse. The proceeds go to the Chair
of Australian Literature fund.
Professor Milgate says in his intro-
duction that the anthology includes
“apprentices” to Australian poetry:
but it is painfully clear from the con-
tents that many of these apprentices
will never, never be tradesmen. It is
not a book of youthful promise and
experiment.
Many of the poems are extremely
naive. There is, for instance, the con-
tributor who asks the very rude
question: —
How have you drunk Love’s golden
cup,
Charged to the brim with red, red
wine?
Was it a sacrament divine
Or swilled among the rooting
swine? —
a poem which —besides other objec-
tions one could take to it—ignores the
fact that it not customary to feed swine
on red, red wine; even some of the
clarets one could name.
There is the poetess who wants to
walk around for ever with jacaranda-
petals in her hair; the other poetess
who has heard “the trepident treble of
primroses ardent for spring” ; the poet
who has observed that the aboriginal’s
soul aspires “To some mysterious
hidden goal”; the lover whose Lady
(Continued on page 58)


Ask the man who
has tried
VACU-LUG
The ONLY FULLY GUARANTEED
Method of TYRE RECONDITIONING
In your district there is a
man who has had his Farm
TRACTOR, GRADER or
EARTH MOVING EQUIP-
MENT fitted with this ONLY
SATISFACTORY method of
tyre reconditioning.
SAVE from 50 p.c. to 66 p.c. on NEW
TYRE REPLACEMENT
See your local Agent or write for full information to
VACU-LUG (N.S.W.)
Pty. Ltd.
BOX 16, MASCOT, N.S.W.


The Bulletin
Wednesday, July 17, 1957
Vol. 78—No. 4040
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors:
H. K. Prior David Adams
K. J. Prior
LEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, BU 5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queens \nd: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
South Australia: 64 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Westral ia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Inew Zealand : Nathan's Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SMOKE ON THE LUNGS
ALTHOUGH the British Medical
Research Council’s report on the pos-
sible connection between cigarette-
smoking and lung-cancer is probably
the most authoritative statement so far
made on the subject, attacks on the
tobacco habit are almost as old as the
habit itself. King James I held such
violent views on the subject that he
wrote a pamphlet, “A Counterblast to
Tobacco,” aimed at exposing the
dangers of smoking, which he described
as
“a custome lothsome to the eye, hate-
full to the nose, harmfull to the braine,
dangerous to the Lungs, and in the
black stinking fume thereof, nearest
resembling the horrible Stigian smoke
of the pit that is bottomeless.”
James was unable to prevent the
spread of the “lothsome custome,” but
he never ceased to campaign against it.
In his opposition to tobacco James
had a worthy Australian disciple 60
years ago. E. W. Cole, of Book Arcade
fame, whose “Funny Picture Book,”
designed to amuse and instruct the
young, is probably the Australian best-
seller, waged a one-man campaign
against the weed and devoted several
pages of his classic to publicising the
evils of smoking. Unlike King James,
Cole admitted that tobacco “soothes
and comforts millions of the worried
and the weary,” but he nevertheless
claimed that “it always more or less
injures the health of the smoker and
sometimes kills him.” He listed the
“organs, fluids, functions, etc.,” which
he said tobacco affected:—
The blood, heart, the nerves, the
brain, the liver, the lungs, the stomach,
the throat, the saliva, the taste, the
voice, the eyes, the ears, the nose, the
mouth, the tongue, the palate, the
pancreas, the lips, the teeth, the bones,
the skin.
No medical authority was quoted
for this statement; readers had to take
Cole’s word for it. But, he claimed,
“medical men and observing experts
affirm that many diseases are caused or
accelerated by the use of tobacco,
among which are the following:—
Heart-disease, consumption, cancer,
ulceration, asthma, bronchitis, neuralgia,
paralysis, palsy, apoplexy, indiges-
tion, dysentery, diarrhoea, constipation,
sleeplessness, melancholia, delirium
tremens, insanity.”
Apparently ingrowing toenails and
housemaid’s knee were to be ascribed
to other causes.
Neither King James nor E. W. Cole
had any real medical evidence to sup-
port his charges, and it is undeniable
that down the years a great number of
those who have campaigned against
smoking have weakened what case they
might have had by being also anti-
everything that the average man looks
to as a source of pleasure. In recent
years, however, the charge that tobacco
is an enemy to health has developed
from the general to the particular, and
medical attention has been directed to
the possibility that smoking, especially
of cigarettes, may be a cause of lung-
cancer.
The report of the British Medical
Research Council does not say
cigarette-smoking is the cause. But it
does say that so far no adequate
explanation has been advanced for the
doubling of the death-rate from lung-
cancer since 1947 “save that cigarette-
smoking is indeed the principal factor
in the causation of the disease.” The
report stresses that knowledge of the
cause of lung-cancer is still incom-
plete and that many agencies other
than tobacco are undoubtedly capable
of producing the disease ; at least five
industrial causes have been recognised.
Nevertheless, the evidence for an
association between lung-cancer and
smoking has been steadily mounting,
and the most critical examination has
failed to invalidate the main conclu-
sions drawn from it. The main con-
clusions given in the report are:—
1. A very large increase in the lung-
cancer deathrate has occurred in
Britain and many other countries in
the past 25 years.
2. A relatively small number of cases
can be attributed to specific indus-
trial hazards.
3. A proportion may be due to atmo-
spheric pollution.
4. Evidence suggests that a major part
of the increase is due to cigarette-
smoking. The most reasonable inter-
pretation is that the relationship is
one of direct cause and effect.
5. The identification of several cancer-
promoting substances in tobacco-
smoke provides a rational basis for
this theory.
Getting down to figures, the report
says that lung-cancer is now respon-
sible for 1 in 18 of all male deaths and
1 in 9 of those dying between 45 and
64. Among females the rate is only
1 in 103, “but the trend indicates that
the incidence has not yet reached its
peak.”
In Britain the reaction of the
Government has been that it is its duty
to see that the findings of the council
are made widely known, but that it is
up to the people to decide for them-
selves whether to give up smoking.
The Parliamentary Secretary for Health
told the Commons that there was no
intention of banning nicotine as a drug;
there would be no restriction on
tobacco-advertisements, and no curtail-
ment of foreign currency used to buy
tobacco. A leaflet would be prepared
giving details of the report and it
would be sent to all local health
authorities.
Both the “British Medical Journal”
and “Lancet” seem to have accepted
as fact that smoking is injurious to
health. The one suggests that doctors
should do all they can to dissuade
young people from starting the habit ;
the other thinks the aim should be to
persuade heavy smokers to cut down
their smokes.
No action has yet been decided on by
health authorities in Australia. Federal
Health Minister Dr. Cameron says
that the British report will be received
by the Australian Government “as a
matter of course.” and when the
Government has all the facts it will no
doubt consider what action is
necessary. In Adelaide the chairman
of the S.A. Anti-Cancer Campaign
Committee (a doctor) suggested a ban
on smoking at public functions, on the
ground that non-smokers should not
be forced to breathe smoke-polluted
air. Newspaper-correspondents dis-
cussed the polluted air of railway
smoking-compartments and the fact
that many smokers seem to behave as
though there is no such thing as a non-
smoking compartment in the modern
train.
Irrespective of what they think of the
Medical Council report. Governments
would face an almost impossible task
if they tried to abolish the smoking
habit. Apart from other problems,
there is the fiscal angle. In Customs
and excise duties tobacco brought £7OO
million to the British exchequer last
year, and in 1955-56 the Australian
Treasury benefited to the tune of
£64,807,025 —at least two-thirds of it
from cigarettes. Australian tobacco-
farms produce about one-seventh of
the weed smoked in Australia, and
Australian factories manufacture all
but a small percentage of the cigarettes
consumed.
Prohibition of smoking would have
even less chance of success than pro-
hibition of drinking. The only way to
lessen the evils of alcohol is by educa-
tion in temperance, and the same thing
applies to tobacco. King James
couldn’t stamp out the “lothsome
custome” and it wasn’t nearly so
strongly entrenched in his day as it is
now.


“No, Malenkov, it’s not a one-way ticket to Siberia — just another letter from Bert Evatt.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
New and Clean
The British explosion of the H-bomb
in the Pacific has produced far more than
a big bang. It blew-up, among other
things, the biggest weapon that the
Kremlin owned —fear of radiation.
The Moscow propagandists have used
this to strike terror into the hearts of
people in the West. The fall-out of any
atomic bomb was going to destroy every-
thing and everybody for hundreds of
miles around. Therefore the peoples of
the West should stop the warmongers
before it was too late.
The Russians haven’t worried much
about fall-out themselves even in their
experiments. If report speaks truly, two
of their bombs have gone astray ; in one
instance large numbers of their own
people have suffered, and in another the
poisonous miasma found its way iqfo
China without causing Comrade Khrush-
chev any loss of 'sleep.
Britain, however, having announced
that it had produced a nearly “clean”
bomb which would have few or no effects
in its own area, the ground was cut from
under the feet of the Communists' chief
device for raising fear. The bomb has
become —the British bomb, at least—
merely a bomb, not a spreading horror
without end. It is bigger and better for
its purpose than other bombs, but it is a
battlefield weapon.
President Eisenhower, as soon as he
heard about the British achievement,
found that his bomb, too, was clean—
it naturally had a cleanness to end all
cleanness.
This good news came on the edge of
the disarmament conference in London
to which the Big Five went full of
aspirations, but privately, perhaps, with
little hope. The conference has com-
pletely failed, and Mr. Dulles and his
friends are putting it about that the
“slippage” from the highest plane of
goodwill has resulted because the British
have shown hesitation about agreeing to
the openhanded proposals which Moscow
and Washington have been making to
each other as spokesmen for the world’s
nations (who are usually not consulted till
the last moment) and which Washington
and, Moscow have always modified or
withdrawn the moment the other fellow
showed signs of too much agreement.
President Eisenhower is very proud of
his bomb, and speaks of its use on battle-
fields, and says it is a force that “can
roam all over the countryside,” confining
the attack to the targets they are aimed
at. And though he concedes that
“innocent people are sometimes killed”
even by clean bombs, he admits the
advance and hopes that if it comes to
nuclear war the Russians will also learn
to make clean bombs, “for the simple
reason that at least they would make
specific weapons instead of weapons of
general and uncontrolled destruction.”
It is to be hoped that the Russian bomb
will have clearer-cut effects than Mr.
Khrushchev’s political moves. A few
days ago he was sacking his Old Stalinist
Guard because they stood in the way of
making peace with the Western world.
At next weekend he dealt resounding
smacks to the clean bomb, which he
declares to be a sham and a delusion.
And this week'he says that the Disarma-
ment Conference, at which he has refused
to make any agreement for inspection or
guarantees, might “just as well be called
a sub-committee of Nato,” which has been
“set-up by Imperialists who wished to
destroy the Soviet system, democracy
and the people’s regimes.” He is horrified
to find that the U.S. Government has in
its Budget “quite officially earmarked
sums for propaganda and subversive
activity.”
Just fancy! Moscow would never think
of doing a thing like that!
Too Hot to Handle
{From Canberra]
Should the Federal Government be
able # to use for its own purposes an
expensive American limousine brought
into Australia by a private citizen in.
contravention of the law and confiscated
by the Customs Department?
Obviously there are several very good
reasons why such action would be
regarded in the same class as compound-
ing a felony.
Then why did it take daily-newspaper
reports about a luxury Lincoln seized
from a Perth businessman recently to get
the Government to come out into the
open? Until the newspapers told of the
businessman’s remorse, and later resent-
ment, when he heard plans for his
vehicle, it was assumed in the Canberra
transport-pool (Ministerial and official
cars) that the sleek, push-button con-
vertible would be used for V.I.P.s.
But, no ; it now turns out that the
Interior Department, which controls the
transport-pool, will not require the car.
And it is stated quite emphatically that
Mr. Beale’s Supply Department, which
controls transport-pools in each State
capital, neither sought it nor has any use
for it.
There’s been no mention of the mag-
nificent latest-model Buick now in the
paint-shop at the Canberra Transport
Pool where it is allegedly getting an over-
coat of respectable black. This princely
vehicle was seized by Customs from a
Sydney man in exactly the same way as
the Lincoln, and in exactly the same
manner as the Lincoln it found its way
to Canberra. There has been no ques-
tion of selling it at auction.
It can be recalled that a few years ago
the transport pool auctioned a seized
convertible after an inquisitive mechanic
broke his dentures when a window,
answering the demand of a dashboard
button, snapped shut on his jawbone,
N. S. Wales Governorship
After months of undignified speculation,
promoted as much by the coyness of
Premier Cahill as by anyone else, the
daily press was able to announce?,on
July 9 that Lieutenant-General Eric
Woodward, G.O.C. Eastern Command of
the A.M.F., had been chosen Governor
of N.S.W.
The Government can congratulate
itself. Its choices of Australian-born
Governors so far have been admirable.
General Sir John Northcott, who was in
office longer than any previous Governor
save Lachlan Macquarie, filled the office
with dignity and ability. • Government
House has never known an incumbent of
the vice-regal office who worked harder,
took his duties more seriously or became
more popular and admired.
He has set a difficult standard for
General Woodward to live up to, but
those who -know the latter have every
confidence that he will maintain the high
reputation for leadership and tact which
have characterised his years of senior
command in the Army.
He has had a most versatile military
experience, including a period of service
with the R.A.A.F., during which he
earned his wings. He is a good horse-
man, and served with the? 7th Hussars in
India and with a Light Horse Regiment in
Australia. His interests have a wide
spread. He was through the Middle
East (Western Desert) and Syrian cam-
paigns, won an 0.8. E. for his part in
the Bardia operations, and was given
a D.S.O. on the spot for his part in El
Alamein.
He has been a member of the Aus-
tralian Military Board and was Adjutant-
General when he was promoted to Eastern
Command in 1953.
Personally he is a quiet, though com-
panionable, man with scholarly tastes and
a pride in his Australian military ancestry,
which reaches back to the early 1820’s,
when his great-grandfather came out in
command of the 3rd Infantry of the Line
(The Buffs). It was he who established the
first mounted police from a company of,
the regiment.
The new Governor’s wife is a keen
Australian historian.
"Made in Japan”
[From Canberra]
If the Japanese Trade Treaty means
that the average Australian can buy
good-quality Japanese goods cheaper than
similar products of British and Australian
origin, there’s something to be said for it.
Today Japanese products, while able to
undercut some of our local prices, are
good-quality, and in some instances the
best of their kind in the world. It
would be a sad commentary indeed if we
eschewed Japanese imports merely to per-
petuate a system under which British and
Australian wage-earners and manu-
facturers, away from the stimulus of com-
petition, are able to overcharge the Aus-
tralian community and so keep up our
absurdly high cost of living.
Boiled-down to its simplest terms the
new agreement serves as a guarantee that
Japan will continue to support our wool-
auctions in exchange for reasonable entry
into the Australian market in fair com-
petition with Britain and other countries.
Naturally, if Japanese products are good


enough and cheap enough, they will meet
a ready demand at the expense of tradi-
tional suppliers. But there is little doubt
that, economically if in no other respect,
we owe to Japan the chance Of improving
her export-cheque from Australia to
something like £4O million in the next
three or four years. Compare that with
our cheque from Japan for the current
year of £l4O million, mostly for greasy
wool. Japan’s sales to us in this period
totalled little more than £l4 million.
Queensland Election Line-up
With the election campaign already half-
over, nominations for the Queensland
election on August 3 closed on Friday
with a record number of candidates (219)
in the field. Usually Labor has a few
uncontested seats, but this time all the
walkovers will be in Opposition
electorates —Landsborough, held by C.P.
and Opposition-leader Nicklin ; Aubigny
(C.P.), Callide (C.P.) and Toowong (Lib.).
Country-party aud Liberal candidates
have nominated for 73 of the 75 seats ;
Gair’s Q.L.P. will contest 62 seats and
Duggan’s (or Bukowski’s or Evatt’s)
A.L.P. 64. There will be 20 Independents
(including an Independent Lib., two
Independent Lab., two Democrats, an
Independent C.P., and a Conservative).
Independents at present hold the only
two seats left uncontested by the Opposi-
tion —Mundingburra and Burdekin. In
the former, T. Aikens will be opposed by
an A.L.P. candidate and an independent;
in Burdekin, Cobarn will have both Labor
parties against him and should win in
a canter.
With first-past-the-post voting and
"Labor” split right down the middle, the
Opposition parties have the chance of
their lifetime to become the Government.
It would seem at present that the only
thing that could prevent their gaining
an outright majority would be the intru-
sion of Independents. It is not that the
Independents are likely to win many seats,
but they could, by attracting votes away
from the Liberal or Country-party
candidate in borderline electorates, give
one of the Labor factions the seat. This
assumes that votes for the Independents
will come from people who normally vote
Liberal or Country-party. In this election
they are just as likely to come from Labor
supporters disgusted with both factions
of their party but not prepared to vote for
straight-out Opposition candidates.
Fortunately for the Opposition’s chances,
in most electorates where Independents
have nominated their presence is not
likely to affect the issue, but in Buranda
and Kurilpa it could mean saving the seat
for the A.L.P. and Q.L.P. sitting member.
Two of the Independents were Liberal
candidates at the last election—Alderman
Pilbeam, Mayor of Rockhampton, who is
standing for Keppel, and F. Curro
(Hinchinbrook). Mrs. Pilbeam has
nominated as an Independent for
Rockhampton ; the only other woman
candidate is Alderman Vera Lacaze, who
is contesting Toowoomba as an
Independent against A.L.P. leader
Duggan, a Q.L.P. candidate, and Aider-
man Anderson, the Liberal Mayor of
Toowoomba.
The death at the weekend of Mines
Minister Devries leaves the Q.L.P. with-
out a candidate in Gregory, where he had
a big majority at the last election. Gair’s
supporters in the electorate will now
have to choose between the A.L.P.
candidate Watson and the Country-party
man Rae.
McManus Amplifies
[From "Collins-strrvt”)
After the Gippsland by-election in
which the Democratic (formerly Anti-
Corn.) Labor party got one-in-three
Labor votes, drawing the lament from
Arthur Calwell that Labor would find
it hard to win a Federal election while
the D.L.P. gave its preferences to Labor’s
opponents, Senator McManus, D.L.P.
secretary, issued four conditions on
which his party, he said, would consider
giving its preferences to the A.L.P.
Preferences from the D.L.P. will be at
least one of the most important elements
in future elections, and probably vital
in close contests. Moreover, the party’s
significance in the Senate will almost cer-
tainly increase; and, as in Gippsland,
the D.L.P. may win, in future, sympa-
thetic Liberal votes because of its positive
campaign in the unions against Com-
munism.
For all these reasons, I had a
talk with Senator McManus, in which
he outlined some of the party's reasons
for its stand and amplified the condi-
tions for an exchange of preferences.
They are:
1: Appoint a Federal leader trusted by
tlie people.
Question : Do you wish to name a
man in the A.L.P. acceptable to the
D.L.P.?
Answer: No. That is the trouble. If
they had one, they probably would
have got rid of Evatt. According to
our reports, a large number of A.L.P.
men would like a less contentious
leader.
Question : There is no possibility of
the D.L.P. accepting Evatt, even a
modified Evatt?
Answer: No. Probably what will
happen eventually is that a sufficiently
large section of the Evatt party, realis-
ing the hopelessness of its electoral
position, will leave the A.L.P. and join
the D.L.P.
2: Adopt an Australian foreign policy
instead of the present Communist-party’s
foreign policy.
Question : That would follow auto-
matically after the implementing of the
first condition?
Answer: Yes. A percentage, at least,
of the Evatt-party members are fearful
of Evatt as Prime Minister. They fear
his foreign policy and his appoint-
ments would stun Australians.
3: up unity tickets in trade-union
election*.
Question : The Brisbane conference
banned Laborites standing on the same
tickets as Communists?
Answer: The Reds are not important
in S.A. and W.A. and Tasmania, and
in Queensland the issue is confused ;
but look at what is happening in the
two big industrial States. All the
Reds’ friends are being voted back into
the party in N.S.W., and in the four
major union elections lately in Vic-
toria—Tramways, A.E.U., Railways
and Watersiders—Laborites and Ccm-
munists stood on a unity ticket.
When Tripovich, Victorian A.L.P.
secretary, is asked to explain this by he
press (about once a week) he says, “1 he
Labor party does not interfere in un/sn
elections” —which, of course, doesn't
answer the question at all.
One of the latest publications of the
Victorian-branch A.L.P. lists all the
decisions from the Brisbane conference
with the single exception of the ruling
prohibiting Labor uniting at elections
with Reds.
4: Return to the old constitution * lul
rules of the J.afoor party.
Question : Surely this is a dome; tic
matter for the A.L.P.?
Answer: No. The trend in the A.L.P.
is decidedly totalitarian, with more tnd
more power being vested in a Federal
junta. The executive is being increas-
ingly fashioned on the Reds’ “demo-
cratic centralism,” and members c[ the
party are afraid to oppose the executive
if they hope at some time to get
selected.
Our party would not give aid to an
organisation in which power has been
wrested, in totalitarian style, from the
rank-and-file and resolved in an
executive.
Binghi's Day
There is something to be said for an
Aborigines’ Sunday such as was celebrated
in many churches throughout the Com-
monwealth on July 14, the same day on
which Orange Day was celebrated by the
long-memoried Northern Irish.
A return-match would be in order on
what could be called White Pfeller’s Day,
at which aborigine preachers could dwell
on the curious twists which have muddied
the thinking of the community about
Binghi, of whose race there are not many
left to think.
Those that are left in the south and
east appear to be all named O'Hara or
McHoots and to be qualified either to
shout for Brian Boru or the Royal
Stewarts as well as for the bunyip.
Binghi himself, generally speaking,
asked nothing but to be left alone, and
so far as the outlook of the pure members
of his race go, that is probably his only
ambition today.
However, while he has ceased to be the
victim of white muskets he has become
the victim of the anthropologist and the
do-gooder, who is almost as lethal. All
sorts of people with an eye to publicity
have begun to exploit him, to shout that
he’s mentally our equal—which is a
modest appraisement in his own sphere—
and that he has exactly the same sort of
mind as our own, only better —which is
not true.
Public opinion regarding the aborigine
has swung back almost to the extreme
view held by Governor Macquarie, who
(Continued on page 13)


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
ATOTOR-CARS, I notice, are rising
to more and more exalted titles.
A while back the makers were quite
happy with Prefects, Consuls, Ambassa-
dors, and so forth. Now the Renault
people have come out with the Dauphine,
and Citroen, not to be outdone, have the
Goddess. I anticipate with some awe the
appearance of a Ford Almighty.—
“Oliver Filter.”
»> ❖ ❖
“Nunk”: It's terrible to see a strong
man weep, as, for instance, the most
exquisite of Australian poets, Slessor, in
his book-review columns in the Sydney
“Sun,” contemplating the reissue of his
ancient enemy, C. J. Dennis, to a total
sale of 175,000 copies:
So who can doubt that here we have the
great Australian poem? Cynics may com-
plain about its artificiality, its theatricality,
its self-conscious jargon and its general
mawkishness, but has any other Australian
verse-writer ever done so well?
Ken Mackenzie used to have a story of
the time just after Dennis’s death when it
was proposed to dedicate a stained-glass
window in the Mitchell Library to
Dennis ; Slessor was supposed to have
written a letter which the Sydney
“Herald” didn’t publish saying that the
proposal didn’t go far enough—they
should erect a Split Infinitive to him . . .
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Yakipan”: Competition between
Melbourne’s many schools for models
must be very keen. One is described on
the radio as being “At the Paris-end of
Collins-street.” What do they call the
other end?
“Collector”: Professor J. Portus, in
his Happy Highways, says “Early in its
career South Australia was nicknamed
‘Paradise of Dissent’.” Dr. Douglas
Pike has now used- the phrase as a title
for his history of Soutn Australia. In
over half a century’s sojourn in S.A. I
have never heard the expression used.
Anyone know when and where it
originated?
❖ ❖ v
“Dorian”: Two lifts and a flight of
steel steps take you to the top of Bris-
bane's City Hall tower and a magnificent
“ Dammit , Jack , if you don't come back , what am I
going to tell your wife?"
view of buildings, gardens and river. I
was leaning against the thick-meshed wire
fence taking it all in when there was a
spidery whirring above me: I just had
time to press myself against a wall as
the clock-bells thundered out quarter-
to-eleven. When the ringing in the tower
and my ears had ceased I dazedly
approached the telescope and hunted for
a sixpence with which to feed it. Then,
photos from various angles, and then, it
being nearly five-to, I decided to clear
out before the confounded bell . . .
Enough. When the lift-doors opened
no fewer than seven people, inter-Staters
like myself, emerged on the landing and
made towards the tower-stairs. I gave
them three minutes.
❖ ❖ ❖
“Snow”: Professor K. H. Bailey,
Solicitor-General of the Commonwealth,
in proceedings before the Commonwealth
Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,
is reported using the expression: “as
different as half-a-pound of cheese is
from half-past-four in the afternoon.” He
described this as a metaphor very familiar
to the Bar in Melbourne. Waffor?
»> ❖ *>
“Wusslean”: My facetious suggestion
(B. 26/6/ ’57) that a policeman should have
practical knowledge of illegal pastimes
was not altogether far-fetched. “Police
WHO IS THEY?
“They" make you pay your rates and
taxes,
“They” come to you to grind their axes.
“They" pick a fight, “They" win it, too,
This they do the whole world through.
“They” make you rich, “They" make you
poor,
“They" don’t bother any more,
“They" build you up, “They” let you
down,
“They" treat you as a first-rate clown.
Try to catch “They" if you can,
And find “They” left ere you began•;
Arrive there first and you will find,
“They” have left you far behind.
“They” make this world a better place,
For “They" belong to the human race.
It's “They” who made the atom-bomb —
Just whereabouts do “They" come from?
“They” won’t give up the merry dance,
No, sir, not the slightest chance.
“They” will haunt your lifetime through
For after all, now, “They’’ is you.
N.s.w.
MALCOLM READ.


Life,” the official newspaper of the Vic-
torian Police Force, records that the Force
has specialised groups: the Consorting
Squad, the Homicide Squad, the Sheep-
stealing Squad, the Car-stealing Squad,
the Larceny-from-motor-vehicles Squad,
the Breaking Squad, and so on. The
Sheep-stealing Squad, for instance, is
stated to be “manned by detectives who
have had practical experience in sheep-
farming and woolclassing.” It would be
interesting to know just what the qualifi-
cations are for promotion to the Consort-
ing, Car-stealing, Breaking and Homicide
Squads.
❖ ❖ ♦>
“Old Opencut”: Posing as a Mexican
ranch-foreman on a world-toiiy he strode
the Adelaide streets in the full and color-
ful rig. The papers accepted him at
his own valuation ; he made the front-
pages complete with photo-blocks, a
coverage appreciated by the C. 1.8. In
one interview he described Australia as
being “the same as Mexico without the
bull.” He turned out to be a well-known
inter-State confidence-trickster. Adelaide
rewarded him. with two months in the pen
for his little bit of bull.
♦> ♦> *2*
“R.C.T.”: Affidavits have been
“sworn” not only on dictionaries
(B. 3/7/’57), but, also to my knowledge,
on an Anthony Horderns’ catalogue.
That these appear to be irregularities is
due to the popularly held delusion that
an affidavit must be sworn on a Bible.
An affidavit can be duly sworn by an
oath with the open hand without the
presence of a Bible. The deponent
holds up his right hand with the palm
exposed, and says:“l swear by Almighty
God that the contents of this my affidavit
are true in substance,” etc. In taking
an oath in court, without taking the Bible
in his hand, he says: “I swear by
Almighty God that the evidence I shall
give shall be the truth, the whole truth
and nothing but the truth,” I have
several times seen the oath so made in a
New South Wales court. It is the form
of oath made in the courts in Victoria.
❖ % *
“Benbow”: Demand for toilet-soap
behind the Iron Curtain (“Ek Dum,” B.
26/6/’57) is not new. It must be five
years since a well-known vessel in the
U.K.-Australian trade was diverted to
Odessa with a full cargo of wool, for,
presumably, Joe Stalin’s troops. Though
capitalism had ceased to exist officially
at the Black Sea port, a brisk trade in
cakes of toilet-soap was carried on by
those members of the crew who had had
the foresight to provide themselves with
an Odd case or two.
<s* *>
“XCO”: The Old Boys who have
“proved barren” in “Kenyas’s” report
(B. 12/6/’57) seem to be in the same
category as the wife of a Polish Battle-
of-Britain pilot, a story famous in the
early ’forties but maybe worth repeating
now. Three Polish pilots were being
"Sorry, darling —/ didn't notice the tide going out."
entertained in London by a society-
hostess. Finding that one of them was
married she asked him if he had any
children. “No,” replied the pilot, “my
wife, she is un-bearable.” The second
pilot stepped in at that stage apologising
for the somewhat unusual English used
by his friend and added: “What he means
is that his wife is inconceivable.” “No,
no, no,” interjected the third, “you must
forgive my friends as their English is not
too excellent. My friend only wanted to
say that his wife is impregnable.”
❖ *t* ❖
“E. &O. E.”: At a small Tasmanian
port wharfies staged a 24-hour stoppage.
Then it rained, after weeks of fine
weather, and everyone realised that instead
of a full day’s pay, with hardly any work,
the shipping company would have no
wages to pay because the men were on
strike.
❖ ❖ ❖
“N. 8.”: Good old days. The g.-m. of
a certain Sydney company had the lift to
himself before the war as a matter of
course. The other day the staff surged
into the lift around 9 a.m. and it took all
but two —a succeeding g.-m. and another
senior.
♦J* ♦>
“Sagittarian”: Report of a wedding
at Geelong (Vic.) had the bride
wearing “a veil of Carrick McCross
lace, made from lace formerly
belonging to the bride's grand-
mother.” Whirroo! The name touched
a cord of memory, for I was there in
1918 as a young Digger. My gazetteer
struck the right note:
Carrickmacross, Monaghan, Rep. of
Ireland. Imp mkt tn in the S. of the co., W
of Dundalk. It is famed for its line lace.
Other indus. include fruit-preserving and
mfs of shoes and alcohol..
Population is given as 2000. I remember
some associated (as consumers) with the
alcohol industry, and if they were not
ready to fight for much less than the
correct spelling of their Irish native town,
I’ll pawn my shillelagh.
*j« *:• *:*
“C.W.S.”: Further to “Doynest’s” ptr.
on the value of a Melbourne wife being
£3900 (B. 12/6/’57), a Hobart jury has
decided the value of a husband and
father of four burned to death in a police-
cell: £7550.
*' ❖ ❖
“Sister Ellell”: The general public are
really vdry tolerant and helpful, if there
is an accepted sign that same is required.
In S.A. the youngsters who are deaf wear
blue-and-yeltow headgear, the girls a blue
beret with a yellow pom-pom, and the
boys wear caps of the same color-
segments. Today, a boy wearing the cap
boarded the crowded bus; blissfully
blowing a mouthorgan he ferreted his
way amongst legs, baskets and bags, from
the rear of the bus to the front. At first
there were looks of surprise and annoy-
ance on the faces of the sardine-packed
humans, which quickly turned to interest
at the sight of the cap, and the hearing-
aid. Then he was steadied along by many


a helping-hand, for what with the school-
bag and the clutching of the mouth-organ,
he lacked a steadier of his own; and
nobody thought it worth while telling him
the tune he was playing wasn’t a tune
at all.
♦> ❖
“Jock”: Sportsmen aren’t forgotten in
Brisbane. Already the city has a
Lindwall- and an Archer-street, both at
suburban Mount Gravatt. Now Greater
Brisbane City Council is to give the
name Landy-street to a new thoroughfare
at Northgate.
$
“Imperial 55”: Every picture-goer is
familiar with the business-tycoon dealing
with a battery of telephones, but the ’flu
epidemic in Sydney has caused as im-
pressive a demonstration with typewriters.
The typing-staff reduced to near zero, the
“It keeps him home from the Club.”
senior typist works for all executives;
she uses four typewriters, one long-
carriage and three standard, and as the
pressure increases she leaves a job half-
done in one machine and dashes to
another to do a more urgent letter, or
plops down at the long-carriage machine
to bash out a list of statistics, having to
leave that in the middle as another
executive screams for his job.
*i* *z*
**Kenyas”: An old lady I knew,
remarkable for her correct English—a
colloquialism seldom passed her lips;
slang was unthinkable—was on her death-
bed ; she’d hardly known what it was like
to be sick throughout an extraordinarily
long life and now was succumbing to
sheer old age. She clasped the hand of
her much-loved woman-companion of 40
years: “Bessie,” she quavered, “as the
Yanks say, ‘l’ve had it!’ ” and peacefully
passed away.
“Hab”: There’s a catch somewhere in
the announcement that a Common-
wealth Statistician’s publication is now
available at a price of “one shilling or
one shilling and fourpence, post-free.”
❖ ♦> ❖,
“P.0.M.C.”: Yes, a J.P. may be “un-
frocked,” given the right sex and circum-
stance (B. 3/7/’57). In a Sydney choco-
late-factory years ago, a forewoman
Justice, while witnessing a document for
me, had her skirt neatly whipped off by
the belt and pulley of the machine I was
working. She was badly shocked, too;
not entirely by the sudden and generous
display of thingmebobs.
❖ ♦> ❖
“Joanne”: A traveller on the first
electric-train to run from Sydney to
Lithgow—Premier Cahill performed the
opening ceremony—was Mrs. Ritchie, of
Newport (Sydney), wife of the publicity-
officer of the N.S.W. Railways. Her
grandfather, John Skipper, travelled on
the first train to run from Sydney to
Parramatta back in the ’fifties; he was
bandmaster of Parramatta Band.
❖ ♦>
“Musica”: The singer who nearly
jumped out of his skin when his audience
turned their programme-pages (B.
26/6/’57) reminds me of Chaliapin in
Sydney, when his handsomely-produced
souvenir-programmes at two-bob each
contained all the songs for the entire
series, each song being prefixed by a
number. Before each song Chaliapin
would come forward and announce the
programme-number, and the noise of two-
thousand-odd programmes being turned
simultaneously was startling ; fortunately
this was in the days before broadcasting.
BUCK’S LUCK
“Two Nigerian women touring the U.S. say
they are pleased their own men are overlords in
the home. They had to get permission from
their husbands to make the trip.”
We’ve heard of this or that place—save
our mirth! —
Bearing the title, “Paradise on earth.”
And this,, mark you, simply because the
clime
Is balmy, or the vistas are sublime;
Or maybe just because there’s food
aplenty,
And one may live there dolce far niente,
“The world forgetting by the world
forgot,”
No work to do, and caring not a jot.
Could such, though, be compared with
far Nigeria,
Where women like to boast that they’re
inferior
To men? Where wives stick closely to
tradition
Which says they must delight in meek
submission;
Speaking only when they are spoken to
(Thus they themselves can never start
a “blue"!);
Glorying in their status of a chattel,
Valued, likely as not, lower than cattle.
They’d give a horse-laugh if it were
suggested
Their lords of plenary powers should be
divested.
The only Women’s Movement they are
chancing
Is when they roll their hips when they
are dancing.
Common humanity, though, demands
there be
Change in Nigerian domesticity.
Why, Western husbands ask, should
African buck
Have a monopoly of all the luck?
He should be shown the pleasures to be
had
From nightly washing-up; he might be
glad
To run the vacuum-cleaner through the
house
Under the supervision of his spouse.
And he should be compelled to try a
clashing
Of wills, and learn to take a long
ear-bashing.
It’s sad to think those nigs can go through
life
Denied the relish of domestic strife ;
And never having known the full enjoy-
ment
Of being kept in extra-work employ-
ment,
In chores, ranging from fixing leaking
faucets
To helping Her wriggle into her corsets.
They’ve never lived, those darkies from
Nigeria,
Who’re looked on by their women as
superior.
Fancy a wife having to cringe and
plea !...
I wonder what the fare to there would be ?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


Asleep in the Sun
By KENNETH MACKENZIE
1.
Would you sleep in the sun? and without art?
More beauty in one form I have not seen
than here in you, lying asleep, apart
from day, from me; this light is not a screen
and yet you lie as carelessly and loose
as though great walls enclose you from my sight,
your lips still parted on a hot excuse,
your closed eyes confronting day with night,
naked and bare in sleep, before my stare
dark with the same confusion of desires
as you yourself would know, naked, bare,
were I to waken you to these sun-fires
that nest now in your breast, your hair, your hands,
while north and south of you shoal the white sands.
2.
I look, and do not see. Burning, I shiver
in deeper currents whose unhidden motion
Hows without pause, as south of us the river
runs depthless under cliffs into this ocean.
1 see your drowsy body, and no more-
no dreams enacting, nor your thoughts laid by:
you are your own apparition on this shore
fallen asleep beneath the summer sky,
while what I would love in you is still as faj*
from my more orderly philosophy
as any bird in flight, or any star
white in the dusk and streaming on the sea—
as far, and yet as sure in time and worth
as are the unknown beaches to the north.
3.
The wave breaks on them and they do not care,
knowing that while the earth lasts they endure;
I look at you with as insistent stare:
you sleep as careless, being than I more sure
of your eternity and life, and are
the shore of beauty, only whose shape changes
with each new age, as fixed as is the star
that from horizon to horizon ranges,
giving a bearing when the soul’s benighted.
What though I am alone, then? for my way
is made assured, with you the beacon sighted,
darkness no night, nor only sunlight day,
nor days of time, nor time of any span,
since you are Beauty, though I am but Man.
4.
How should I wake you from your reckless sleep
here at my feet? A hand upon your breast
would plunge the dagger in repose too deep
and you would love me so I could not rest
in my own dreams; yet silence makes me fear
to speak, to whisper, silence and your pose
either of sleep or death. Let me forbear
to tamper with your burning peace, that goes
as smooth, as timeless as this rising tide
shawling the outer sand with icy foam
that comes to claim you as a man his bride
who moves her with his love and takes her home
as the sun sets across a summer day.
I with the wind must turn and w alk away.
[From some unpublished MSS.]


POLITICAL POINTS
At the moment K. seems to have the
bulge on B.
• •
Preceded by a covey of backbenchers,
the party leaders from the Victorian
Parliament are off to Queensland.
Premier Bolte will fly north to prepare
his Budget away from the daily worries
of Melbourne. (Official.) Labor-leader
Cain will fly there to take an active part
in the A.L.P. campaign. (Official.)
Country-party leader Hyland will fly
there for a damn’ good sunbake, too.
• •
One result of the trade pact with Japan
will be the reopening of a market for
Australian wheat, more-or-less shut out of
Japan in recent years through aji agree-
ment between Tokyo and Washington,
which provided that Japan should buy all
its supplies of soft wheat from America in
return for grants of hard wheat. This
agreement has now been modified, and
under the recent pact Japan will buy
annually million bushels of f.a.q.
wheat from Australia ; in addition, it will
take such quantities of high protein wheat
as may be available.
• •
From the haste with which the Federal
Ministers concerned took their hands off
that confiscated American car one would
think it was hot.
• •
Is Calwell still Deputy-leader of the
Federal A.L.P.? An official Labor
advertisement in Brisbane “Courier-
Mail,” signed by Schmella, gave top bill-
ing to Eddie Ward. Calwell, who in the
absence of the Doc. is Labor’s Acting-
leader, was placed second. Still, when
the numbers go up after the Queensland
election Arthur may be glad to stand
from under.
• •
The report of the electoral commission
set up last February to determine new
boundaries for N. S. Wales Assembly
electorates will be released on August 2.
It is considered almost certain that two
inner-City seats will be wiped out, to be
replaced by two new electorates in the
rapidly growing area between Sutherland
and Fairfield.
• •
If there’s anything in auto-suggestion
the whole staff of Sydney “Sun” should
be out to it with Asian ’flu by now.
• •
“Collins-street”: Gippsland folk who
wondered where the money came from
to pay for the spate of A.L.P. and
Country-party plugs over the local broad-
casting-stations (every 20 minutes at some
periods of the day) during the by-election
campaign can now stop wondering. The
dough was raised by big bakers anxious
to sustain in the Legislative Council the
power of the C.P.-Labor alliance which
emasculated the Government’s Bread Bill
last session.
• •
Savings-bank deposits increased by
£5.9 million during the month of May to
a record total of £1200.9 million. Private
savings banks accounted for all but
£700,000 of the increase.
• •
The Graziers’ Federal Council is to
ask the Federal Government to lift the
embargo on the export of Merino sheep.
This decision represents a realisation that
the real threat to the Australian wool
industry comes not from other wool-
producing countries, but from synthetics.
As one delegate told the convention in
Hobart last week, “We must keep wool-
production up wherever it is grown. Even
if rams are taken from here to competitive
countries, it is going to keep prices within
reach of the consumer.” It is becoming
increasingly plain to wool men that it is
not desirable that the price of wool should
be allowed to go too high. There is an
upward limit, beyond which the consumer
turns to synthetics.
• •
Hornsby-Gosford is the next section
of N. S. Wales railway to be electrified,
not the Port Kembla line, as had been
advocated. Estimated cost is £3.8 million,
and the change is expected to reduce
running costs by £720,000 a year.
• •
Comrade Khrushchev rejoices that by
chucking out Molotov, Malenkov and
Kaganovich and other plotters against
Russia’s plans for peaceful settlements —
as exemplified, no doubt, in Hungary and
in the savage threats of the use of military
force against ' Israel —he has been
■able to restore “the principles of Lenin.”
As a preliminary to a world-peace
campaign it seems peculiar to restore the
principles of the man who invented the
saying that “revolution and war are the
midwives of history.”
• •
“C.A.L.”: Rigid parking-controls have
been imposed in Perth’s city block. A
recent survey showed that of the
estimated 160,000 who come into the city
each day, only two thousand enter by
rail, the remainder journey by road trans-
port. Yet in the Stephenson plan adopted
for Perth and suburbs, only one railway-
extension has been proposed—a branch-
line of nine miles to serve several beach-
resorts on the fringe of the population
densities. No rail-services are suggested
for the big new residential areas at present
remote from railways, nor for the ultimate
greatest concentration, Nollamara, a
satellite city of 40,000 nearing completion
about 10 miles north of Perth.
• • '*
Exports of iron and steel for the 10
months ended April 30 were valued at
£21,129,000, compared with £4,721,000
for the corresponding period of the previ-
ous year, B.H.P. chairman C. York
Syme says. Export prices averaged
50 to 75 per cent, above Australian prices.
Current steel-production at Newcastle
and Port Kembla is at the rate of
2,800,000 ingot-tons a year.
• •
“Kesem”: Two baits to catch the
women’s vote in Queensland. The
Country-party-Libs. have promised to
reduce probate duty, which in some cases
has been so severe that widows have been
obliged to sell properties to find cash to
pay it. Duggan’s A.L.P. is making a
bid for the young-mothers’ vote by
promising pre-school kindergartens.
• •
Canberra’s population rose by 26.8 per
cent, to 35,864 in the three years to June
30, according to the house-to-house census
taken on that date. Census officials
estimate that the population of the whole
Australian Capital Territory is now
37,900. In the city area the number of
males increased by 3900 to 15.985 ;
females by 3687 to 15,466. Unofficial
estimates worked out from the census
confirm the belief that Canberra’s
population will touch 60,000 within the
next decade. More than 2000 public
servants and their families will arrive
there from Melbourne in the next two
years alone.
• •
London is trying out the staggered-
hours plan for reducing peak-hour
traffic-problems. More than a hundred
firms have been asked to vary their
times of starting and finishing work so
as to avoid the 9 a.m. rush and the 5.30
stampede. One concern with 400
employees now opens its doors at 8.45
a.m. (15 minutes earlier). On two nights
of the week it closes at 6 p.m. and on
the other three at 4.45 p.m.
• •
In total the Federal Treasurer’s
estimate of revenue for the year 1956-57
was uncannily accurate —he budgeted for
£1095.2 million and his actual receipts
were £1095.4 million. In detail, however,
he wasn’t quite so hot. Customs revenue
was £11.4 million below estimate ; excise
£5.2 above. Sales-tax was £4.2 light;
income tax £8.5 over ; estate-duty, £2.7
over. Expenditure was slightly below
estimates in several departments, and the
surplus for the year was £116.8 million,
compared with the Budget estimate of
£108.7 million. Almost £lOO million of
this went (as intended) to finance State
loan-programmes and war-service land-
settlement, leaving a cash surplus of
£16.9 million.


treated tribal chieftains as kings, created
Australia’s first order of chivalry to
decorate them, founded aborigine
schools which were to turn the black
race into agriculturists* scholars and
housewives, but which ended like all
attempts of the kind only in frustration.
Just now to be an indigene and to
sing or paint is to become immediately
the centre of press-adulation on some
sort of assumption that the mere color
of skin sets the performer in a class of
his own ahead of his white brethren.
Under the circumstances the warnings
of Mr. Paul Hasluck and Professor Elkin
on Sunday were bright spots in an ocean
of mush. Professor Elkin inveighed
against the new habit of bringing
aborigine children out of their natural
environment and suddenly subjecting
them to the impact of lavish homes under
the Kieig-lights of an enthralled flapper-
press. Mr. Hasluck was more compre-
hensive, and put the misgivings of a lot
of friends of the native race more clearly.
He pointed out that the “aborigine is
not a pet, an oddity, a scientific specimen,
a handy topic for elections, a social pro-
blem or a political puppet,” and that
many people who are voicing concern for
the aborigine were actually concerned
only with what happened to their own
campaigns ; that Binghi had become “the
stock-in-trade of the journalist, the pro-
ducer of tourist attractions or the pro-
fessional expert in aboriginal customs.”
It is still a pity that Australia could
not spare a piece of this vast country
which it has usurped from Binghi to give
him a plot on which he might live
unmolested and secure from anthropolo-
gists and Communists, to fry his own
goanna as he pleases—always making
sure that there is “plenty goanna, plenty
tumbak” within his reach. His needs are
humble.
U. L. (“Larry”) Anthony, who passed
on at the weekend in his home-town of
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), was a Tweed
River banana-grower when he entered
Federal n«l i tic* under the C P hanner
• ,na-T P 01 " 108 un<3er the C.r. banner
in 1937. As previously shown by his
activities in the banana-growing industry,
he had great energy and organising
ability, and became an assistant Minister
in 1940, held other portfolios, and
was made P.M.G. in 1949, which he
remained until his health failed two years
ago. Larry Anthony was a War I Digger,
but his passing, at 60, shows what
Ministerial responsibilities took out of
him, even though he was one of the
ablest of the present-day C.P. team.
m 9
In nominating his grandson Karim as
his successor the Aga Khan is reported
to have told Karim’s father, Aly Khan,
that he would like him to keep his racing
stables going and that no man could do
both that job and the traditional one of
giving spiritual leadership to the Ismaili
Moslems. Apparently the Aga could but
Aly can’t.
# •
Gair, replying to A.L.P. electioneer-
ing speeches by Calwell and Ward gave
conskterably better than he got.’ Of
Calwell, who hadn’t attacked him per-
sonally, but had concentrated on the
Labor split, he commented: —
Mr. Calwell has been here talking about
the Labor split in Queensland. But Mr.
IS, JTwhSte
he doesn’t. He opposed Dr. Evatt for the
leadership, and since he took a hiding he
has been content to run along.
Of Ward, who had said Gair and Walsh
should have been expelled at the time
"THE ONLY WAY...."
"It is a far, far better thing that I do titan I have ever done; it is a far,
far better rest that I go to than I have ever known.”
of the Hobart conference for betraying
the party, he said:
Fancy Mr, Ward talking about betrayal
of tt,e Labor movement! Mr. Ward was
° ne five who erossed the floor and
brought about the downfall of the Seullin
Government.
#
In Prague Bulganin, pushed into second
place by Khrushchev, gave Khrush full
credit for unmasking Malenkov and co.
This could have been merely a tribute to
the new Big Boss. On the other hand it
could have been a forward-looking move
to put himself in the clear in the event
of the pendulum swinging back again,
From all reports Bulganin at one stage
of the recent intrigues deserted his old
travelling-companion, but switched back
in time to save his bacon. How long it’s
saved for is another matter,
# #
The Federal Constitution Review
Committee has been taking evidence in
Brisbane and other Queensland cities and
towns. It invited the four State party-
leaders to give evidence, but found them
occupied with other business which will
keep lbem us y August 3. They may
be mvited to Canberra later—or the com-
mittee may arran § e another trip to
Brisbane,
#
America’s two top-rank diplomats—
Foster Dulles and Avery Brundage — are
at loggerheads over travel-permits.
Brundage as head of the International
Olympic Committee, wants to attend the
next meeting of the committee in Septem-
her. The snag is that the meeting is
scheduled to be held in Sofia and the
Dulles State Department doesn’t issue
travel-permits to Bulgaria. Brundage has
asked for an exemption and says he’ll
resign bis Olympic post if he doesn’t get
it. Application addressed to Dulles in
person.
• •
Messages reporting Malenkov’s removal
to Ust Kamenogorsk stress that his new
address is more than 2060 miles east of,
Moscow and should effectively remove
him from the scene of party intrigues.
Was it Kipling or Khrushchev who wrote
“Ust is Ust, etc.”?
• m
George Henry Devries, Queensland
Minister for Mines, who died on Satur-
day, had been M.L.A. for Gregory since
1941. He was Attorney-General 1949-50,
Minister for Public Instruction 1950-56,
and succeeded T. A. Foley as Minister
for Mines after the Lands Commission
inquiry last year. When the Labor split
occurred Devries, like all but one of the
Gair Cabinet, stuck with the Premier
when he was expelled from the A.L.P.
Emotional stress due to the split no doubt
contributed to the heart attack which
caused his death.


PERSONAL ITEMS
Appointments to the Melbourne
Cricket Ground board of trustees, which
are eagerly sought and highly prized, are
very frequently political plums, but
Edwin Leonard Moran, the Executive
Council’s new member, has clearly
been appointed because he will be a useful
sort of cove to have around. He is a
popular Melbourne solicitor who will be
capable of giving (with fellow-trustee
Bob Menzies) free legal advice, and he
knows a great deal about the M.C.C.
(he’s been a committeeman since 1949),
the famous ground itself, and the sports
played on it. He was a University blue,
played football for the Old Melburnians
and cricket for Prahran. Moran replaced
the late Dr. McClelland, who was the
M.C.C.’s representative on the board of
trustees; even politicians had to agree
that the club members who will pay, over
a long period of years, for the wonderful
new ground, were entitled to a say on the
board that runs it.
• •
“F.R.G.S.”: A word more about Dr.
Hugo Flecker, whose death at Cairns (Q.)
was in The Bulletin (July 3, 1957). A
major in the Kaiser’s War (enlisted August
20, 1914), he followed-up in 1942 with
the same rank for home-service. An
acknowledged world - authority on
radiology, he was chiefly known through-
out North Queensland as a naturalist.
His researches into the effects of the
poisonous “finger-cherry,” the fruit of
which, at certain stages, causes blindness,
brought him Commonwealth - wide
renown. A marine biologist of note, he
named North Queensland’s mysterious
stinger, the Irukandji, and carried on
extensive research into the life-history and
habits of another suspected killer of the
beaches, Chironex fleckeri.
Posts held following graduation from
Sydney University in 1907 included
demonstrator in anatomy (Sydney), hon.
anaesthetist, Royal Hospital for Women
(Sydney), hon. physician, Mater
Misericordiae Hospital (North Sydney),
hon. radiologist to the Austin Hospital
(Melbourne), hon. radiologist, Royal
Prince Henry Hospital (Melbourne), and
hon. lecturer in X-ray Anatomy, Mel-
bourne University. He was admitted to
the Royal College of Surgeons,
Edinburgh, in 1910. A paper he
published in 1929 concerning the move-
ment of the shoulder-bones altered many
concepts widely held until then.
Foundation-president of the North
Queensland Naturalists’ Club, he fostered
an interest in nature-study among young
people, and the Flecker Essay is a regular
feature in the Cairns Show schedule.
Despite his great store of knowledge—
always on tap for those willing to call on
it—he was essentially unassuming. The
highest honor a community can confer on
one of its members is an affectionate nick-
name. To the people of Cairns he was
always “The Old Doc.”
“K.R.”: A. L. Cahill, a linotype-
operator on Melbourne “Herald,” is the
newly elected Federal president of the
Printing Industry Employees’ Union
(P.1.E.U.A.). He takes office on August
1, for a year. He is a former Victorian
president of the union, is a member of
the union’s Federal Council and has
stood unsuccessfully as a Labor candidate
at a couple of State elections.
UNK WHITE, whose fair girls and
frivolous cows have done much to
decorate the Australian scene, per
Bulletin joke-blocks and story illustra-
tions, has lately decorated himself with
a beard: the growth has aroused such a
variety of comment around 252 George-
street and parts adjacent that it was felt
that, like Van Gogh’s, it should be put
on permanent record; so Unk was asked
to do a self-portrait. Here it is.
Back home from Ceylon, Colonel J. K.
and Mrs. Murray, who have both been
there under the Colombo Plan. Mrs.
Murray, a Sydney Ag. Science graduate,
has been Principal of Ceylon School of
Agriculture for Girls at Kundasale for
the past two years. The school is set in
1200 acres near Kandy ; at least 50 per
cent, of Ceylon’s agricultural jobs are
done by women. The Murrays lived in
the bungalow which was S.E.A.C. com-
mand-headquarters in War 11.
J. K. Murray, who has been Adminis-
trator of Papua-New Guinea, Principal of
Gatton, and Professor of Agriculture at
Queensland University, as well as holding
a variety of important Army jobs, chiefly
of an administrative nature, in War 11, has
been advising the Ceylon Department of
Agriculture on agricultural education. His
assignment took him into all the agri-
cultural districts, and he naturally made
comparisons with New Guinea. Ho
points out that Papua-New Guinea is six
times the size of Ceylon and has relatively
greater areas suitable for tropical crops,
of which he is sure that, under Australian
administration, it can make Australia
independent of imported supplies.
• •
“P.A.L.”: A stalwart figure in the
history of the Anglican church in N.Z.
passed when Archbishop Alfred Walter
Averill, C.M.G., D.D., former Primate of
New Zealand, died at Christchurch, at 91.
Born in the pottery town of Stafford, he
came to N.Z. in 1894, and after a series
of promotions became Bishop of Waipu
in 1910; here he did notable work
among the Maoris, much of it on horse-
back, in difficult country. He succeeded
Archbishop Julius as Primate in 1925, and
held the post until April, 1940. His
book, Fifty Years in New Zealand, was
published live years later.
• •
This is the first financial year in 105
of them that there hasn't been a Miller
directing the old Bank of Victoria or its
successor, the Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney. Lionel Findon Miller has
eased-up, because of advancing years,
and has retired from the chairmanship
of the Victorian board just three years
short of completing half-a-century on his
own account. His grandfather, Henry
Miller, was the founder of the Bank of
Victoria, and his uncle, Edward, also
served on the board.
• •
“Apemantus”: Ned Kelly and his
armor get a good press, but there were
others —for instance, the late Ernest
(“Shiner”) Ryan, who has passed on at
Fremantle (W.A.), at 72. Mechanically-
gifted, a talented organiser, and an oil-
colorist of merit, he spent some 35 years
in jail. He is credited with originating
the use in Australia of the motor-car in
armed robberies —in 1914, for the
Eveleigh workshops payroll hold-up.
• •
Passed on in Melbourne, at 92, James
Curdie Mackinnon, a well-known figure
in pastoral and commercial circles for
many years. Last surviving son of Daniel
Mackinnon, who settled on Marida
Yallock, near Terang (Vic.), in 1838,
he managed Marion Downs in western
Queensland in the 1880's and 1890's.
Later, with W. K. Mackinnon and
W. T. and E. Manifold,. he was
associated in the Wyangarie Estate.


in northern N.S.W. Under his
management this property was sub-
divided into farms, forming the nucleus of
what is now the rich dairying district of
Kyogle. A director of a number of com-
panies, he had been chairman of the
Union Trustee Company, Trufood of
Australia, and Strachan and Co. for some
years, and had been president of the
Melbourne Club.
• •
“A.W.”: I spent two mornings at the
South Brisbane home of Robert Dalley-
Scarlett, Mus.D. (Adelaide Uni., 1934)
and Halle Medallist for Handel research,
inspecting his collection of manuscripts,
volumes, choral-music and general litera-
ture —valued, he said, at around £5OOO.
There was a photostat-MS. of Handel’s
“Messiah” ; just as the master wrote it,
thumbprints, smudges and all. “When
people exclaim over the Hallelujah
Chorus,” the Doctor said, “ask them
which one they mean.” To my look of
bewilderment: “Handel wrote a
Hallelujah chorus for nearly every one
of his oratorios.” Dalley-Scarlett, who
was polishing-up his classical Greek the
day I visited him, is fluent in a number of
modern languages. Jokingly, I asked him
if he knew Arabic. “Only as far as speak-
ing it,” he said.
• •
Now 84, Sir Ernest Hyam Davis, of
Auckland (N.Z.), keeps regular office-
hours. He’s managing-director of Han-
cock and Co., wine-and-spirit merchants,
and chairman of the Devonport Steam
Ferry Co. and North Shore Transport, has
served three terms as Mayor of Auckland,
is a keen yachtsman (he gave his ketch,
Viking, to the Navy, but owns another
yacht, and is still commodore of Auck-
land's Anniversary Regatta), and is one
of New Zealand’s leading racing-owners.
SIR ERNEST DAVIS
His horses did particularly well from 1953
to 1955, and he looks like topping the
list, or coming very close to it, this
season. Apart from such good performers
on the flat as Takatu and Bali Hai, he
owns the outstanding hurdler, The
MacDonough.
• •
“Justin Thyme”: I wonder if solicitor
Harold Morgan (B. 10/7/’57) ever thinks
back to the ’nineties, when he and three
others used to meet at lunch at Quong
Tart’s in King-street? One of the quartet
was Frank lredale, non-smoking,
teetotal Test-cricketer, who won a set of
pipes donated by a firm of spirit mer-
chants to the top-scorer in a Test-match
against Stoddart’s English XI.
When the four next met at the lunch-
table, Harold jocularly suggested that, as
Frank didn’t smoke, he might like to
hand over a pipe to each of the other
three. To their surprise,. Frank declared
that he intended to start smoking, and
the pipe subsequently became as pro-
minent a feature as Ben Chifley’s. I’ve
often wondered what would have
happened if the trophy had been a case of
Scotch.
• •
“Maitri”: James Kalokerinos, a young
Greek-Australian radiologist working at
Sydney’s Royal North Shore Hospital,
has another claim to fame. After gradu-
ating in Medicine from Sydney University
he spent nearly six years studying
radiology at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, and
while there came under the spell of Scottish
song, particularly of the Gaelic variety. Travelling
from end to end of Scotland he learned all he
could about the native music and used-up his
spare cash importing from Germany the best
type of tape-recorder then procurable. Thus
equipped, he proceeded to record the airs he
thought worthy of preservation. Result? Fie
now possesses hundreds of rare and beautiful
melodies, some of which may have been
collected for the first time. From one singer,
Flora Macneil, of Barra, he gathered no
fewer than 122 songs: on one occasion he
recorded Flora’s singing for just on 12 hours.
The collection includes everything from pensive
love-songs to stirring mouth-music (dance-
songs). There are also piping-tunes and record-
ings of psalm-singing as performed by precentor
and congregation in those few churches which
have resisted the blandishments of an organ.
Nor has he confined his collecting to Scottish
music; there are Irish songs sung by a traditional
singer to the accompaniment of the small harp,
or clarsach.
When I was myself gathering Gaelic songs in
the Outer Hebrides (alas! tape-recorders were
then only in the hands of powerful institutions
like the 8.8. C. and I was obliged to write-
down the melodies in musical notation or
memorise them) a Scottish newspaper admitted
it was “an embarrassment that an Australian,
should do this.” But I was of the blood ; had
some knowledge of Gaelic; Celtic had been the
tongue of my ancestors. It must have been
still more embarrassing when the press (which
praised Kalokerinos’s work highly) learned that
a Greek-Australian was using-up his time and
money recording Scotland’s ancient music.
Australians of Scottish descent and all lovers
of traditional song should be grateful to Dr,
Kalokerinos. He has had no publicity in this
country as yet.
• •
New accountant and assistant-secretary
of the N.S.W. Royal Agricultural Society,
George Percival (Mick) Alexander,
joined the R.A.S. back in 1924, when
Sir Samuel Hordern was president and
Monty Somer secretary; of the present
MICK ALEXANDER
councillors, he recalls, only Anthony
Hordern, snr., and E. A. Southee were
then on the R.A.S. Council. Assistant-
accountant since 1927, Alexander was
the logical choice when A. W. Skidmore
(now on his way to Japan) retired. A
golfer and bowler nowadays, Mick was
a pillar of the Bondi surf and swimming
clubs some years back.
• •
Although he has been in Melbourne
just a little more than two years,
Laurence C. Deane, the young managing-
director of Group Laboratories Pty., Ltd.,
got cracking so smartly he was able to
sit back the other day and listen to
Premier Bolte opening a new £250,000
factory at Moorabbin, a Melbourne
suburb. Deane, a Londoner, became a
marketing expert with the senior £9-
million company in Britain, and was sent
here to step-up sales of Brylcreem,
Eno’s, Maclean's toothpaste, Silvikrin,
and Beecham’s Pills.
• •
Into the Silence:
In New York, at 60, A. W. V. King, manager
and editor of Australian Associated Press in New
York, and New York editor of Reuters. Born
in Sydney and served with the First A.I.F.
At Oxford (Eng.), at 71, Lord Cherwell, Sir
Winston Churchill’s scientific adviser during
World War 11. He visited Australia in 1953 when
Britain tested atomic weapons at Woomera.
In Sydney, at 76, William James Bradley, Q.C.
Specialist in commercial and industrial law, and
director of many companies. M.L.C. from
1940 to 1949 and a city-councillor.
In Melbourne, at 79, Ernest Roland Pitt,
former chief-librarian (1931-43) of the Victorian
Public Library.
At Dunedin (N.Z.). Professor Ann Gilchrist
Strong, 0.8. E., a world figure in Home Science.
In Sydney, at 75, Archbishop Terence Bernard
McGuire, first Archbishop of Canberra and
Goulburn.
In Melbourne, Dr. W. J, Harris, former head-
master of several Victorian country high-schools
and a world geological authority on graptolites.


ABORIGINALITIES
"pOLICE got to know I had a pistol and
insisted that I produce it to them for
destruction. It’s only sin. long, has four
barrels and is fired by a revolving striker.
I assured them I’d never fired it and
that it would probably blow-up if I tried.
Notwithstanding, they impounded it,
together with my plea for ownership.
Three weeks later they returned it—
fend with it a firearm-licence. It was the
pistol used to capture Frank Gardiner,
the bushranger, at Aphis Creek (Q.), in
1864. Fancy a licence after almost a
Century!—“Tobe.”
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: City stores are stock-
piled with trochus-shell unsold because
of the competition of plastics in the
“The Smiths Want this one changed for a girl.”
manufacture of shirt-buttons; and
mother-of-pearl also must inevitably take
the knock to the synthetics. Trochus-
shell was always more easily fished than
m.-0.-p., but it brought a lower price
because the buttons made from it, as
distinct from those made from pearl-
shell (which remained always virginally
white), were marked with reddish flecks.
This permanent whiteness was the only
advantage the deeper-dwelling and thus
higher-priced m.-0.-p. had over the
cheaper troch'us. Could mean “curtains”
for the shell-game, since it is decades since
the chance discovery of a pearl in a shell
ceased to be taken into account in the
assessment of likely profit or loss in the
financing of drifts.
* * * $
“Alma”: Foxes, too, swim for the
fun of it (B. 26/6/’57). They prefer
the late-afternoons of summer days, but
this could be that the larger wading-
birds are beginning fishing in earnest at
that time, and the ginger bloke likes
nothing better than a fish meal. His
technique without getting a paw muddied
is to just come up behind a heron when
it steps on to the bank holding a fish;
the fisher’s beak falls open in both
and fright, and by the time
it is airborne in panic Brer has his fish
tea. But any time he feels like it the
fox will go in for a dip—possibly, as
old bushmen say, to relieve the flea
position.
* * s? *
“Cowrie”: Crutching the flock-ewes,
head down, with a cigarette hanging on
his lips, Clarrie had the fag neatly
removed by the ewe he was attending to
when she lifted a leg and caught the
gasper firmly in the split of the hoof.
Six witnesses to attest to the truth of it.
Opinions evenly divided as to whether
this was the form of her protest at
having a portion of her winter woollies
removed or giving Clarrie a delicate hint
as to the possible danger from lung-
cancer.
* * * *
“Robbie”: Old Mike had a habit of
looking around in a way the township’s
cop decided was furtive, and he was
always pulling Mike up and asking ques-
tions, and Mike was thoroughly fed-up.
He was walking down the street carry-
ing a sugar-bag and leading his horse,
when his tormentor asked him what he
had in the bag. “Only chaff,” whispered
Mike. The Law smelt a rat. “Tip it out
and let me see,” he ordered. When a
small heap of chaff gathered beneath the
upturned bag the loungers on the pub-
veranda tittered. “Why the hell couldn’t
you tell me without whispering?” roared
the discomfited cop. “Didn’t want me
horse to know,” whispered Mike.
* * * *
“8.D.8.”: I can tell “H.C.8.” (B.
8/5/’57) where the Three Legs of Man
Creek got its name. Near the bank of
the creek was an old two-story timber
inn, no doubt a stopping-place for Cobb
and Co. coaches. In 1918, on a walking-
tour, we took shelter from a thunder-
storm in that abandoned hostelry, the
sign of which carried the armorial bearing
of the Isle of Man —three legs in armor
conjoined at the thighs. Today a number
of large Cupressus mark the spot on the
Hume Highway.
* * * •
“Toetoe”: The people of a small town
just south of Auckland (N.Z.) have not
forgotten George’s volunteer fire-brigade
which graced their community some 20
years ago. Although it boasted a fine
siren the old engine could not be coaxed
out of second-gear. So when a dilatory
member missed the bus he was able to
follow behind comfortably on his bicycle
and even had time to stop and recover the
hose when it fell off the engine. “Did
you save the house?” George was asked
when they returned triumphant to the
station. “No,” said George seriously,
“but we saved the fowl-house.”
* * * *
“Bass”: Last summer the white-flower-
ing redgums around Perth blossomed
sparsely, and according to legend that was
considered by the aborigines a sign of an
approaching dry winter. Since then we’ve
had the wettest winter for years, and I’m
wondering— not whether the natives were
misled, but whether they really made
any observations of this nature. After
all, what interest did they have in fore-
casting weather? They had no crops or.
stock to worry about, and they took
things pretty much as they came. During
really wet weather they often starved,
not because game was less plentiful but
because they were too wet and miserable
to go after it; and although this must
have happened regularly, possibly several
times each winter, they never acquired
the habit of storing food or penning
animals to kill when it was too wet to


«
js"
to
mffi*
O? -
J If
;fe
*
, , f oH %
/.fA
w.
Hi


hunt. About the nearest they came to
any form of husoandry was in their treat-
ment of the fruit of the zamia-palm, and
this, which consisted of soaking the nuts
in water for a few days and then burying
them in sand for a couple of months, was
prompted solely by the need to remove
the poison.
* * * *
“Tabba”: For the place-name that
trips most pleasingly off the tongue, my
vote goes to Willabalangaloo, in S.A.
* * * *
“Saaedi”: “Miss M.” may be wrong
when she claims that spotted bower-birds
have a flair for feline imitations (B.
26/6/’57). All bower-birds known to me,
including Spotty, have what might
roughly be termed cat-calls, but these
seem natural to the birds. Possibly it’s
significant that their nearest relative, the
cat-bird, with no reputation as a mime
whatsoever, has the most catlike calls of
"He Was O.K. on take-off, but his undercarriage is retracting .”
any avian. I recently heard a company
of these quaint fowl holding a concert on
Cambewarra Mountain (N.S.W.) and the
racket was for all the world like a con-
gregation of stoushing fummies.
“Phil Anthus”: “Miss M.” though
wrong about the “feline imitations” by
spotted bower-birds, is right in claiming
that Spotty can imitate the human voice.
An enlightening report on the point has
been recorded by a woman in Queensland.
She relates that after her sister and two
daughters had gone picnicking she was
surprised to hear all three apparently talk-
ing near the house-veranda, the two girls
arguing and the mother soothing and
explaining. All were talking at once, as
was their habit. “I went outside,” says the
writer, “to see what was happening, only
to find that the family wasn’t there at all
—the whole performance was coming
from one spotted bower-bird, perched in
a mulberry-tree.”
* * * *
“Kenyas”: If you haven’t already
planted a Chinese elm, don’t; if you must,
put it far from the house. Ours is a
magnificent tree ; a huge spreading ever-
green—but to my knowledge no other
arboreal specimen has its nuisance-
potential. Most of the year it sheds
countless miniature leaves which,
besides filling the gutters, somehow get
into the house (I’ve even found them
between the bed-sheets). The insignificant
blossoms are just as bad ; and the tree
also sheds a dirty-brown nectar-like sub-
stance which sticks to clothes like glue,
And then, its roots! They will travel up
to 100 ft. to sucker, and there only has
to be the slightest crack in drainage- and
sewerage-pipes for the fine tendrils to get
a grip, and soon the pipes are clogged-up
with a solid mass of roots. In this regard
it beats the pussywillow hollow,
* * * *
“Sanasi”: New Guinea and Papuan
native boys have as much trouble pro-
nouncing white names as the Fijians (B.
26/6/’57). My surname of Chance was
always San-a-see ; the Champions were
Sampans. Nicknames are widely used. I
knew one magistrate who was known as
Dagidagi (the “cross man”), and who
wouldn’t be, having the exasperating
Papuans to deal with? My somewhat
portly brother was always Bogabada (Big
bel’ back to front — bogana is “belly”) ;
and one ne’er-do-well white who per-
sistently importuned unwilling native
wenches was always the “widgi-widgi
man” —no relation to our Australian
widgies ; to say “widgi-widgi” to a girl
was a spoken wolf-whistle, to put it that
way. On the old German side all lands
and survey masters were “Masta Marks”
—peg-putters-in. Thirty years, ago one
dapper loot of the A.N. and M.E.F. was,
with an uptilt of the nose, described as
“Masta nose belong him all the same.”
* * * *
“8.5. M.”: A pair of grey thrushes
(Colluricincla harmonica ) have nested for
three successive years in a small box on
our veranda on top of a high cupboard,
each year renovating the nest, building it
higher in the process. In each of two
years they hatched two families ; during
the three years a total of 13 young birds
have left the nest. Each bird takes a turn
on the nest, and they call to each other,
sometimes from quite a distance, when
it is time to change guard.
* * * *
“Rapana”: An old-time hurdle-rider
told me: “An eighteen-stone Maori was
the owner of the horse I was engaged to
ride in the hurdles. He legged me up, and
then said the horse had never been
schooled over jumps. With a sad smile
he took me by the hand and said good-
bye.”
• * * •
“Sevenelms”: South Australia—least
blessed with natural forests and the
royalty-moneys therefrom to provide the
wherewithal —has planted, by thousands
AT BERRY
Along the coast there’s Gerringong
And Geroa and Jerry,
But westward in the capturing hills,
The little town of Berry.
The hills flow down like ocean-swells,
The town-creek flows like sherry,
And all the oceans in the world
Are not more green than Berry.
I saw it first one afternoon
With magpies making merry,
But all the hills were half-asleep,
And sound-asleep was Berry.
Then evening came and drew a wake
Of grey and pink and cherry,
And white clouds took a pleasure cruise,
A low wind for their ferry.
That night the farms were soon in bed;
The stars were drowsy, very.
It stirred and blinked its eyes a while,
Then back to sleep went Berry.
n.s.w.
E. NORMAN


of acres, more pine than any other State.
It does not grow as fast as in other
States, and interesting indeed are the facts
recently tabulated by Commonwealth
scientists regarding the strength of
South Australian Radiala- pine. These
tests, of mature timber produced in the
last 20 years of 40-year-old trees, disclose
that it has a modulus of rupture sur-
passing mountain-ash or stringybark and
in strength-density ratio excels karri or
grey-ironbark. It seems incontestable
that, weight for weight, this mature pine
outperforms every other important wood
in Australia. The tests were made on
knotless timber, and to grow such wood
trees require high pruning, which isn’t
invariable plantation-practice. Scientists
say that Radiata grown in lusher condi-
tions of soil and rainfall does not give
equal results . . . Obviously the Murray-
magpie State has grown some worthy
trees for its emblem-bird to roost in.
* * * *
“Pig Islander”: The young cocky’s
bride, straight- from the city, was con-
cerned as he came in from his first day’s
work since they were married, and cast
himself wearily into the kitchen-chair.
When she asked him what he had been
doing he said, “Sucker-bashing.” Then
came her gently-chiding: “But, darling,
can’t you find a kinder way of handling
little pigs?”
* * * *
“Fair Mac”: From the blood on his
bare legs and neck we knew something
had happened to Les that day, but the
young bloke wouldn’t let on. Yesterday
—l5 years later —he told me': “As I
came near the trap, Bluey chased a
goanna up a tree. The bunny in the trap
was torn about, and it’d happened twice
before. I could see the go. peeping at
me from the other side of the trunk, so
I grabbed the trap-setter and went up
after him. He spat and swore at me,
and kept going higher, till I backed him
out on a branch that bent with his weight.
I hacked with the setter, but just as I’d
got it nearly through the head of the
setter flew off. I pressed the branch down
and the go. hit the ground with a whack
that should have killed anything. Bluey
rushed in to maul the corpse, and nearly
threw a back-’un when it rushed straight
up the tree again. And now you know
where I got all those scratches from.
The go. took a short-cut over me.”
♦ * *
“Helldud”: In 50 years of wood-
butchering I never heard the art of giving
a plane more iron described as a “ship-
wright’s sharpen” (“8.A.K.,” B.
22/5/’57). On rough work, when a plane-
iron became blunt we grabbed a screw-
driver and scraped the business end of it
across the edge (face-edge) of the plane-
iron. That was a “shipwright’s sharpen,”
and it converted the iron into a coarse
scraper which tore the shavings off
rapidly but very roughly. A plane-iron
could be sharpened only twice in this
fashion, after whjch it had to be properly
sharpened on a stone.
* * * *
“Pegasus”: Great horse-lovers there
have been, but I put at the head of the
list a bloke I once struck on the Hume
Highway (N.S.W.). About quarter-way
up a steep hill the horse drawing his cart
loaded with odds and ends was showing
signs of distress. He unloaded the bulk
of the stuff and lugged it up to
the summit himself, reloading after he
had led his greatly-relieved friend to the
hill-crest.
* * * *
“N.A.8.”: Newcastle (N.S.W.) is cele-
brating the centenary of Nobby’s break-
water, which links the mainland with
what was once Nobby’s Island. History
records that Francis Greenway, convict
architect, claimed he made the original
survey for the breakwater long before it
was built. He said he was directed, by
Government order, to “the re-forming of
the Hunter River mouth, the survey of
the town of Newcastle and the creation
of a port.” But Newcastle historians say
that neither Governor Macquarie’s diary
nor Government records mention Green-
way’s visit to Newcastle. Certainly Mac-
quarie promised him a block of land at
near-by Morpeth in 1821, but red-tape
delayed approval until after his death in
1837. Greenway was buried at Maitland
by the parish schoolteacher, the chaplain
being on leave.
THE PIGTAIL
YUL BRYNNER’S baldheaded cult
reminds me of a gang of canecutters
years ago.
It was a “gun” gang, and each man
commenced the season by having the
clippers over his scalp, which damped his
ardor for going to town and debauching
in the weekend. They were like highly-
trained athletes who had to keep in nick
for a contest that went on every day for
six months excepting weekends; and
they were out to wrest £4OO to £5OO each
for the season’s work—and that wasn’t
peanuts in those days.
The wag with the
clippers had a great time.
He left a Red Indian scalp-
lock on one bloke, a fore-
lock on another, a tuft
over each ear on the
ganger.
But Nugget, who had
the longest hair, wanted
a pigtail left on his
cranium. So a pigtail he
finished-up with, a blond
one.
Every Saturday the
clippers went over his dome while
the pigtail continued to grow. The cane-
inspector and the tradesmen took the
news to town, and people came for
miles to see it. Barmaids came
out to the barracks in a car because they
didn’t believe it. It be-
came Nugget’s pride and
joy.
Came the Saturday
when the little bloke
“cracked,” and he went
to town, not for de-
bauchery but for a movie,
dressed impeccably in
blue-serge suit, silk shirt,
patent-leather shoes and
a brand-new Stetson to
house the pigtail, which
by then was about Sin.
long.
Just before the interval-lights came on
a wag grabbed the Stetson and shot-
through with it, leaving Nugget burrow-
ing down in his deckchair in the crowded
hall under the astonished gaze of a dozen
women in his immediate vicinity. The
shiny scalp with the white mosaics of
shrapnel-scars, and the long, fair pig-
tail—which was more of a pony-tail—was
something never seen before. And I
doubt if ever since.
LES SUCH.


The Taxpayers’ Association’s
INCOME TAX GUIDE
1957 Edition
Solves your tax problems
10/6
From booksellers, any branch of the
Taxpayer* Association or
TAXPAYERS PUBLISHERS PTY. LTD.,
lie CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
SLUGGING THE YOUNGER INDUSTRY
in
Australia, which is based
on inequitable principles from
the beginning (tax is paid by
the company without rebate on
dividends in the hands of
shareholders, who pay full
tax at their own personal rate),
is also having the effect of
favoring large, well-established
and possibly monopolistic com-
panies by comparison with the
smaller concern.
Some mention of this was
made in The Bulletin last
week ; and, with the Budget
shortly to be presented at
Canberra, it is a subject that is
worth further attention.
“Private” Companies
Taxation on “private com-
panies” one comprehensive
definition of a private com-
pany, for taxation purposes,'
is “a company which is
capable of being controlled by
any means whatever by one
person or by persons not more
than seven in number”—has
had the special design of pre-
venting a man, a man and his
wife, or a man and his family
from using the company as a
repository of personal savings
as well as a business, paying-
out little in the way of
dividends and therefore avoid-
ing taxation on dividends
(though the co. pays tax), the
proprietors being content to see
their funds accumulate within
the business which they control
rather than in their own
personal bank-account.
Expedients Only
In order to defeat the object
of such people the Taxation
Department has resorted to a
variety of expedients from
time to time, mostly in the
nature of a special tax on
undistributed profits. But in
every case these measures have
been expedients, pure and
simple. There can be no
argument that they are equit-
able or even reasonable or in
the interests of the national
economy. All that can be said
for them is that they are a
makeshift, dragnet means of
dealing with a method of
financing one’s business which
the Taxation Department fears
would otherwise result in a loss
of revenue to the Treasury.
In other words, the depart-
ment has reason to believe that
private companies behave
differently, taxwise, from
public companies. It is not
prepared to tax a private com-
pany on the same basis as a
public company, and, as a
result of this, many “family
companies” in recent years
have been forced to convert
into public companies for no
other reason than that they
have found the burden of
private - company tax too
oppressive.
A Comparison
The department makes some
token concessions to private
companies. Its flat-rate private-
company tax* is 2s. in the £
lower than public-company
tax on the first £5OOO of profit,
and Is. in the £ lower on the
excess. But in order to make
a real comparison the exercise
has to be carried a bit further.
A public company in Aus-
tralia pays 7s. in the £ on
taxable income up to £5OOO
and Bs. in the £ on the excess.
A “private” company pays
ss. in the £ on the first £5OOO
and 7s. in the £ on the excess.
In addition, the private com-
pany pays 10s. in the £ on
undistributed profits after
allowing for the primary tax
and deducting a retention-
"Sorry, No. 39131 —no letters for you today."
allowance equal, in practice, to
roughly 25 p.c. of the excess of
taxable income over and above
the 55.-7 s. tax paid or payable.
In these circumstances, a
public company earning a
fully-taxable profit of £lOO.OOO
but which pays no dividends
would be able to retain £60,250
to finance business expansion
after paying all taxes (in this
case £39,750).
A private company earning
the same taxable profit and
paying no dividend to its
shareholders would have to pay
£34,500 in primary tax and
£24,287 in undistributed-profits
tax, leaving only £41,213 in the
business to finance expansion.
The public company in this
case would have the advantage
over the private concern to the
extent of more than £19,000.
Growth of a Business
No doubt, in years gone by,
the department found that
some persons were able to
amass large fortunes by turn-
ing their business into a
company in which they held a
99 p.c. interest and which paid
tax only at the flat-rate com-
pany levy, not at the sliding-
scale rate which should have
applied to their share of the
profits.
But what is apparently dis-
missed by the Canberra
hierarchy as unimportant is the
fact that these people did build-
up large new businesses.
Davis Gelatine, until recent
years, was a private company,
and one which said in its pros-
pect’-* ffiat it had financed ex-
pansion of its business largely
by ploughing-back profits.
Today Davis Gelatine not only
controls a large business in
gelatine products in Australia,
but has branched out into
South Africa, New Zealand
and Canada, all by reason of
the efficiency, know-how —and
financial strength—it developed
in Australia.
It is clear that in the begin-
ning the founders —the late
George Davis was one of
Australia’s outstanding indus-
trialists —as principal share-
holders in the proprietary
company went without big
dividends in order to build-up
the business. And in those
days it was possible to do so
without attracting the heavy
private-company taxation that
rules today.
When Davis Gelatine floated
into a public company in
1955 it did so on the basis of
a paid capital of £1,200,000.
Certainly a large accumula-
tion under the control, at that
time, of comparatively few
people, but also -a very fine
industry for the Common-
wealth.
jg Nowadays, in addition to
company primary taxation
being at the highest level since
the war-time rates operated,
there is the additional lOs.-in-
the-£ tax on undistributed
profits of private companies.
A Harsh Effect
This is undoubtedly having a
very harsh effect at the present


140 YEARS OF SERVICE
to
Primary
and
Secondary
Industries
v : 5 ??•>.;
IHP 1J&8 Iw
I : i il lIS # »r««s
Head Office, Sydney
For over 140 years the Bank of New South Wales has
played a vital part in assisting the development of
Australian agriculture, industry, and commerce.
Since its establishment in Sydney in 1817, the
“Wales” has grown to be the largest trading bank in
Australia with over 1,000 branches and agencies
throughout Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and
New Guinea, and two branches in London.
The “Wales” has played a targe part in the
spectacular development of Australian industry.
Although demand for bank credit has been (and still
is) greater than the supply, within the scope of national
credit policy, advances to agriculture, industry, and
commerce have been increased to the fullest extent
possible. In the past four years alone, advances to
agriculture, industry, and commerce have increased by
more than £40,000,000.
In addition to this direct assistance, customers of
the “Wales” are always able to avail themselves of such
specialized departments as Trade and Industrial
Enquiries, Economic, Overseas, and Travel.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES WITH LIMITED LIABILITY)
time, when inflation has made
the cost of plant-replacement—
let alone expansion very
heavy indeed. Departmental
allowances for depreciation
have for the past 20 years been
far too small to provide for the
cost of plant-renewal, and it
has been found necessary by
most companies to plough-
back profits (after payment of
tax) in order to provide for
plant and buildings. If capital
were raised for this purpose
there would be a grave danger
of the company becoming over-
capitalised.
But the public company pays
its Bs.-in-the-£ tax and can put
the rest to plant-replacement
reserve. The private co. pays
its 7s. in the £, and then is
charged 10s. in the £ on most
of the balance if it retains it
for capital-outlay.
Here, then, we have another
one of those anomalies, the
result of departmental diffi-
culty in coping equitably with a
problem, which will always
arouse distrust and antagonism
on the part of industry towards
the Canberra civil servant.
Probably with the producing
element in the community and
the departmental element
it is always a matter of “never
the twain shall meet” in their
respective attitudes towards
national problems. But in the
case of the smaller incorporated
business thee are certainly
plenty of grounds for feeling
that honest and skilled
economic endeavor is being
frustrated in the interests of
departmental convenience, and
that national industry is suffer-
ing badly thereby.
National Bank Warning
A TIMELY word was offered
by the National Bank of
Australasia last week in its
Monthly Summary when it said
that “no country can stay for
ever in boom conditions, just
as no section of business can
sensibly expect to enjoy ever-
continuing greater prosperity
and ever-higher returns in the
form of profits or wages.”
The warning is necessary at
a time when speculation is again
becoming a fever on the Stock
Exchanges, and when the tone
of some financial comment in
newspapers would almost
suggest that sharemarket
buoyancy is an infallible indi-
cator of real prosperity.
It will be sad indeed if Aus-
tralian industry does not con-
tinue to expand, and in some
cases to expand rapidly. But
it will need to expand profit-
ably, too, to justify prices at
present being paid for some
top-line industrials. It is all
very well clutching a glamor-
stock to your bosom, but some
day (usually soon) you want it
to pay-off—and not at the rate
of 3 p.c. or 4 p.c., either.
First-class stocks generally
reward investors who are pre-
pared to wait. But speculators
don’t buy for long holding,
and in cases where they are dis-
appointed they usually set the
market going the other way.
Cement Shares Move
T3EFERENCE here last week
to the difference of 7s. 6d.
between the market price of
Kandos Cement shares and
those of Australian Cement
in Melbourne representing
almost identical equities in
almost identical assets —was
followed by a rise of 3s. 6d.
(to 435. 6d.) in Kandos shares ;
but, on the other hand, Aus-
tralian Cement shares moved
up from 475. 6d. to 48s. 6d.
This certainly reduces the
difference by 2s. 6d. a share (to
55.), but the position is still
quite anomalous, and hardly to
be explained by the fact that
by buying Australian Cement
shares one gets on to a Vic-
torian register, whereas in the
case of Kandos one is on an
N.S.W. register.
Australian Portland Cement
Pty., the chief working-asset of
the two holding cos. (they have
equal interests in it), owns the
N.S.W. cement-making plant at
Kandos (N.S.W.) as well as
the plant at Geelong (Vic.).
Income of each holding co. is
derived equally from these
assets, and, in fact, each co.
shows almost identical profits
(from similar dividends from
Australian Portland Cement
Pty.) each year, and pays the
same dividends (10 p.c. at
present).
The Department of Trade,
commenting on the cement
industry in its latest report,
says: “The demand for
cement has continued at a high
level, and has risen slightly
since October, 1956. In N.S.W.
sales have increased appreci-
ably, and demand is expected
to be maintained for the fore-
seeable future. Demand in
Victoria continues to exceed
local production, and sub-
stantial quantifies of cement
are obtained from N.S.W., S.A.,
and Tasmania. Local sales have
increased in S.A., as a result of
which less cement has been
available for shipping inter-
state.”
Considerable capital is being
invested in the industry in new
and improved facilities which
will add about 450,000 tons a
year to installed capacity. This
may increase competition later
on, but the A.P.C. Pty. group
should be in a strong position.
/
Going Down with the
Joneses?
HTHE implied rejection of any
L idea of an immediate
bonus-issue or increase in the
div.-rate by Henry Jones
Co-op., Ltd., caused a slump
in the market for that particular
stock, with other market
leaders exhibiting an easing
tendency,
At its recent highest price of
665. 9d. Henry Jones showed
a yield of only 3 p.c., which
would have been increased only
,( 1 4 TP- c - , if an Crease in the
effective div.-rate of 50 p.c. had
occurred through a one-for-
two bonus-issue and a nominal
10 p.c., or a straightout lift to
15 p.c. in the div.
This point was mentioned in
The Bulletin weeks ago, when
ihe shares were rather lower.


CHATEAU TANUNDA
Stories of the Coastal Lights No. 7
zWM \ m
Barrenjoey, N.S.W.
One of the most powerful lighthouses on the coast is Barren-
joey, at the entrance to Broken Bay just north of Sydney.
Barrenjoey light is visible 23 miles in clear weather —the
same distance as Sydney's Macquarie light. Only the lights at
Smoky Cape (which can be seen for 27 miles) and at Cape
Byron (26 miles) have a longer range.
Broken Bay was once a thriving port and a light was re-
putedly first displayed at Barrenjoey in rough weather in
1855. Two wooden buildings, 390 ft. apart and called the
Stewart Towers, were erected in 1863 and lanterns shown
from them as guides to shipping.
The present lighthouse was built at a cost of £20,40), com-
ing into use on Aug. 1, 1881 —a freestone tower of 51 ft.
The ceremony of laying the corner stone was performed
on April 15, 1880, by Miss Rosa Barnett, daughter of the
Colonial Architect, James Barnett. Mr. E. Greviiie, who
presented a silver trowel to Miss Barnett, described the light
as “a noble beacon, a silent sentinel, a shining monitor, star
of hope and saviour of the storm-pressed ship” a lyrical
description, but relevant to almost any lighthouse.
During construction of the present Barrenjoey station two
men lost their lives. It is worth noting that the site selected
by the Marine Board was so closely adhered to that the
“broad arrow” cut into the rock as a guide to the builder
appeared precisely in the centre of the foundation.
The original light shown from this tower was fixed red of
700 candle power, four wick burners with red lamp globes
being used. This was converted to a group flashing white
automatic light on August 6, 1932, the strength being in-
creased to 6,000 candle power.
Among the first of many ships wrecked in Broken Bay
was the schooner Endeavour in 1825. Three lives were lost
in the wreck of the ketch Traveller in 1868, and six died
when the brig Minora was wrecked in 1898.
The position of the light is latitude 33° 35' south, longi-
tude 151° 20' east.
There's safety in the quality of
CHATEAU TANUNDA
N.S.W. Agents
TUCKER & CO. PTY. LIMITED
Distributors of fine spirits for 119 years
CL7
Also, export of canned fruits
and jams has fallen, while Aus-
tralian consumption of jam, per
head, has dropped. Notwith-
standing this, of course, Henry
Jones has shown high profits,
has made large additions to
visible reserves, with the indica-
tion that inner reserves are very
substantial as well.
But the co. is traditionally
conservative, and has warned
the market before not to expect
too much too soon. Last
Thursday, in announcing a one-
for-six share-issue for cash to
be made next year, it said it
was expected to maintain the
10 p.c. div., but not to increase
it; the board thought .it
“especially necessary to point
this out because of the market’s
active interest in the stock.”
Market speculation would be
justified, in view of the financial
strength of the concern, if the
jam-making and preserving
industry as a whole was in a
buoyant position. But there is no
evidence at the moment that
this is so. Competition on the
export side seems likely to grow
more intense in the immediate
future.
There has undoubtedly been
an excess of speculation in the
shares of market “leaders”
over the past six month. This
has been partly because of the
disasters which have occurred
among a number of second-line
or third-line stocks over the
past couple of years. As a
result of these reverses, confi-
dence in anything but the best
has been rather lacking, and
support for “top” stocks has
been correspondingly feverish,
stimulated by the fact that
bonus-issues have come from
C.S.R. and British Tobacco.
Fortunately for the basic
soundness of Australian
industry, the controllers of our
leading industries are not sus-
ceptible to sharemarket influ-
ences. Bonus-issues and other
like benefits will be handed-
out only when circumstances
appear to justify such a course.
What so many speculators
appear to forget, .too, is that
a bonus-issue in itself does not
necessarily indicate a higher
immediate dividend-income; It
is only a pointer, the politics
(as well as the economics) of
which have to be fully
considered.
Coast Drive-in Theatres
pUBLIC subscriptions are
A being invited to finance a
new drive-in theatre roughly
about half-way between Gos-
ford and Terrigal, and it seems
to be the first instance of its
kind in N.S.W. Furthermore,
although £36,200 is being paid
for 6800 £1 shares to obtain
control of Coast Theatres Pty,
Ltd., including a licence, this
consideration is not in the same
astronomical class as we have
been accustomed to hear about
in the Sydney and Wollongong
districts.
The drive-in will be built on
14 acres of land near the junc-
tion of The Entrance and
Terrigal roads (with a frontage
to the latter). It is about 3|
miles from Gosford and four
miles from Terrigal, and within
10 miles of The Entrance. It
seems to be a good position,
with many smaller communities
round about.
It is proposed to raise
£140,600 from the public, this
issue having already been
underwritten by F. E. Headlam
and Co., of Sydney 'Change.
The vendors take £29,400 of
their consideration in shares,
making a total issue of
£170,000.
Apart from vendors' shares,
capital outlay is put at £161,000.
Of that, £130,000 is for con-
struction and equipment costs,
£13,000 for projection and
speaker equipment, £9OOO pre-
liminaries (including broker-
age), £6BOO cash to the vendors,
and £2200 working-capital.
Finance required over and
above proceeds of the issue is
to be raised by hire-purchase at
6 p.c. and bank-overdraft.
The capacity of the drive-in
will be 606 cars per show.
Revenue is estimated on the
basis of 3200 cars (average) a
week, admission-charge being
12s. 6d. a car. Screen advertis-
ing is calculated to bring in
£5O a week, while a catering
fee of 2s. a car amounts to £320
a week. (The usual grill,
barbecue and snack-bar cater-
ing is to be provided by a
Gosford caterer.) On a total
weekly revenue of £2370, a net
profit of £42,370 (after tax) a
year is reckoned on, equal to
25 p.c. on the proposed paid
capital.
The average attendance of
3200 cars a week, on which
so much will depend, is based
on an average of 800 a week
May to August inclusive, 3600
a week September to Novem-
ber, 4800 a week December to
April.
Drive-in theatres under
public ownership are, as indi-
cated, an unknown investment
quantity in N.S.W., but this
company appears to have
selected a good site, and in the
holiday season, at any rate,
should draw big attendances.
The venture is not over-
loaded with vendors’ considera-
tion.
Sydney Business Slow
Sydney business has been
generally slack during the past
three months. The mild winter
(up to the end of June) dis-
couraged the normal seasonal
demand for woollen clothing
(and prices were mostly up,
anyway); but the slackness has
been the result of more than
unseasonable weather. Even
photographers have been find-
ing trade quiet. Advertising
revenues by newspapers are
down generally, and a far-
reaching “pinch” is evident
throughout most of industry.
Where a business not too
solidly financed is feeling the
present setback in -trade the
effect can be fairly serious. It
is occasions such as this where
a margin of efficiency and
some accumulated financial fat
can be of the greatest service
to management and to share-
holders.


cow*
o' 4
Queensland’s
great development projects
\V
-|\ ft
5L 4sop /5
'S/
ARE IMPORTANT TO EVERY AUSTRALIAN!
and it is ELECTRIC POWER that will
help speed the progress of vast enterprises
now shaping a new economic and strategic
future for our nation! Play YOUR part
in shaping this future, invest in
STATE ELECTRICITY
COMMISSION OF QUEENSLAND
LOAN —£s'7’6Yo
GOVERNMENT GUARANTEED
CONSIDER THESE FACTS:
• if 5.7.6% is Australia's peak interest for a GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED Loan.
• You have the choice of a short 5 year term, a medium
10 year term or a long 20 year term.
• You may deposit 10% and pay the balance in three equal
instalments by October 31st next.
• Your subscription, payment Of your half-yearly interest
and repayment of your principal are all FREE OF
EXCHANGE.
% Your interest will be paid direct into your bank account
WITHOUT COSTI
APPLY through the Commonwealth Trading Bank;
Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited; Bank of
New South Wales; any Stockbroker; or direct to
The State Electricity Commission of Queensland,
127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Underwritten by J. B. Were & Son


SUNDRY
SHOWS
TALKIES
THEATRE
MUSIC
ART
Stage and Music
Malko—Lewis
English tenor Richard Lewis,
soloist with the Sydney Sym-
phony Orchestra in Benjamin
Britten’s “Les Illuminations de
Rimbaud,” chose a thankless
task. Britten’s song-cycle is
hard to sing and hard to listen
to —there is no beauty in the
vocal line —and one was grate-
ful at least for the singer’s
warmly - expressive voice,
always under good control, and
the power at his command.
If the composer was unkind
to the singer, he compensated
with an uncommonly clever
orchestral score, the most
engaging effects being the
delicate diminuendos with
which he finished-off practically
every song. Nicolai Malko
wrought these beautifully, so
that they shaded away to the
barest wisp of sound.
Debussy’s “La Mer” was
given an airing by the orchestra.
For all the evocation of the
sea that these three symphonic
sketches conjure, it could just
as well be titled “Moonlight on
the Fowlhouse.” Here the com-
poser’s impressionism slipped a
few cogs, but as abstract music
it offers rich harmonies and
tone-color, and the two
climaxes of strength and weight
were given with the greatest
ebullience.
The orchestra’s best showing
of the night, however, was in
Schubert’s Fifth—“the sym-
phony without trumpets and
drums.” It has an abundance
of inspired tunes by one of the
greatest of melodists, and it
dances along its sunlit length—-
even the andante is never in the
shadows.
The Polovtsian Dances from
Borodin’s “Prince Igor,” with
all its kaleidoscopic coloring,
had Malko stroking his crew
along the fast rhythmic stream
to a most exciting finish.
♦♦♦ ♦>
Kurtz in Melbourne
With military precision
Efrem Kurtz led the Victorian
Symphony Orchestra through
its paces in the sixth of the
1957 subscription concerts at
Melbourne Town Hall. It was
hard to imagine Kurtz as the
man who, in the late ’twenties,
directed the music for Pavlova’s
Australian tour. The tall,
angular figure, balding on top,
displayed a singular lack of
grace as he jerked instructions
to his regiment of players.
Still, the performance won him
friends as well as critics.
His attack on the first piece
on the programme, Weber’s
“Oberon” overture, was sharp,
direct and clear, but completely
toneless. Things brightened
with an excellent MacDonald
arrangement of the Bach
chorale “Ach Gott! ” This
arrangement, new to Australian
audiences, brought some
notable work from the ’cellos.
The Concerto in D Major for
Oboe and Orchestra by Richard
Strauss brought to the platform
27-year-old Sydney oboist lan
Wilson. The young musician
went through the three move-
ments at a brisk pace and,
technically and musically,
showed no unsureness.
Kurtz brought a refreshing
clarity and directness to the
Roussel ballet suite “Bacchus
and Ariadne/’ but it was in the
final work, Beethoven’s monu-
mental “Eroica,” that the
orchestra bestirred itself to the
best purpose.
❖ ❖ ❖
Three Violin Sonatas
In their violin-sonata recital
at Sydney Con. violinist Bren-
ton Langbein and pianist
Maureen Jones —their chamber-
music experience overseas has
greatly enriched their respec-
tive arts —moved to be the best
combination for duo-work
heard here since Ernest
Llewellyn collaborated with
Hephzibah Menuhin.
Langbein, a former member
of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, gave full dramatic
weight to the opening section
of Beethoven’s “Kreutzer”
Sonata, and bowed his way
through the frenetic surges of
the presto without leaving any
blurred edges to his tone. The
darker mood of the piano part
was proclaimed with admirable
left-hand work by Miss Jones.
The Brahms D Minor
Sonata, with its weighty chords
for the keyboard, its shifting
moods of brooding resignation
and rebellious outbursts, found
the pair at their authoritative
best. They made the song-like
phases of the third movement
the work’s lyrical highlight.
Debussy’s Sonata in G
Minor reflects the composer’s
limitations in this field —thrown
into sharper relief by the
brilliant examples of the form
by the two Germans.
&
‘The Silver Tassie”
If you like tragedy mixed up
with clowning, and the big
issues of life raised, looked at,
then whisked away by Irish
verbal tricks, then Canberra
Repertory’s version of Sean
O’Casey’s “The Silver Tassie”
is well worth seeing.
With admirable direction
from producer Ralph Wilson,
who creates scenes and move-
ments like a choreographer, all
the righteous anger, the terrible
indictment of both God and
man that point at which
O’Casey stopped thinking—all
this is conveyed to the audience.
Norman Phillips and Paul
Kreig clowned superbly, with
just the right hint that clown-
ing was the, only possible
comforter against cruelty and
suffering, and a good way of
not asking the more difficult
questions. Georgina Worth
harried them mercilessly as the
frustrated Jansenist.
Harry Schmidt and Michael
Rubin went for the tears and
the anger; Schmidt, as the
blinded sergeant, provided one
of those big moments when
we are shown what life is really
like. So did Daphne Curtis in
one short sharp scene as the
nurse who had kept the vision ;
so, too, did the men who
showed in the war scene what
men do to each other —Ted
Docker, Terry Juliff, Ted
Irving, Jim Hutchins, Ralph
Wilson and Edwin Ride.
But after the clowning, after
the big issues are raised in the
first three acts, the play peters-
out in the last act, not because
of the producer or the players,
but because O'Casey had noth-
ing more to say.
M. C.
♦l* ❖ ❖
“All My Sons”
Linder conditions not alto-
gether ideal for drama —with a
small stage that has the actors
barking on and almost envelop-
ing a small audience in a small
theatre, and, rising in compe-
tition from below, the strains
of the Phillip-street Theatre
revue — the Workers’ Educa-
tional Association’s production
of Arthur Miller’s “All My
Sons,” in the Attic Theatre
under Edward Jackson, was
commendable.
The atmosphere was, in spite
of everything, good ; and one
felt, anyway, that the play was
staged with an earnestness that
would have defied the noise
from all the jazz-bands in
America rolled into one.
In “All My Sons” Miller
interests himself with the con-
flict between social responsi-
bility and self-interest. The
owner of a big machine-parts
plant (Joe Keller) lives with
his wife (Kate) and son (Chris)
in an American country town
after the war. Kate Keller still
lives for her other son (Larry),
reported missing, whom she
believes is still alive. Larry’s
former sweetheart, Ann Deever,
comes to stay at the Kellers’
on the invitation of Chris ; and
they plan, against his mother’s
will, to marry.
Ann Deever's father (a
former partner in Keller’s
business) is about to be released
from jail, after serving a
sentence over the exportation of
defective cylinder-heads that
caused the deaths of 21 U.S.
airmen during the war. Deever
swears, and his lawyer-son
George arrives at the Kellers’
convinced of it and resolute
to take his sister away with
him, that Joe Keller was
responsible; Keller had
appealed and beaten the charge.
The ultimate disclosure of this
truth triggers-off the play’s
violent drama, resulting in
Joe Keller’s suicide.
Russell Dainier’s Keller was
well developed, taking the
ambiguous whims of the part
as they were offered and mould-
ing them to a Keller of quite
some conviction; and lima
Powell’s portrayal of Kate
Keller was just as conscious a
study.
Their son Chris is, in the
barren implication of that
phrase, a good son; but he
thinks, and that puzzles them.
Max Bell’s flexible study of
the part gathered in much of
the introspection intended ; and
Bell worked hardest of all to
give credulity to the rapid
changes of mood dictated by
the author, and did it con-
siderably well.
A pretty girl, Janice Cook
gave a sound performance as
Ann Deever, the young girl
sensing disaster and smiling at
it in a willingness to achieve a
happiness for herself and those
around her.
R. A.


MEN, TOO, CAN LEARN
SHORTHAND
IN TWO HOURS!
In a few short hours you can he an expert shorthand writer!
Guaranteed Miracle Method the sensational Shorthand System that
swept America, enables men and women of ail ages and all walks
of life to gain better positions and more pay.
• The Quickest, Most Inexpensive System Ever Devised
You benefit immediately with Miracle Method—no old-fashioned
symbols to learn. Uses simple converted longhand which you
already know! We GUARANTEE jmi will write good shorthand
in two hours and 120 w.p.m. in fifteen hours! Full details can
be yours FREE and without obligation. WRITE NOW TO:—
Dept. 82, MIRACLE METHOD SHORTHAND,
Bex 155, P. 0., North Sydney.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Sul scription Dept.,
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Box 2521, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money-order
for. . . .months’ subscription to “The Bulletin, ’ to
be posted weekly to—
NAME
ADDRESS
12 months £2/8/-
6 months £l/4/6
3 months 12/6
These prices include postage
and apply whether the sub-
scription is paid direct to
“The Bulletin” or any news
agent in Australia or N.Z.
British Empire .... £*/18/fl Foreign £S/<V-
Please add exchange to country cheques
(N.Z. Rep.: Box 965 Wellington, N.Z.)
Artbursts
Gallery Purchases
The only paintings bearing
the red spots of sales on the
day after the opening of a
joint exhibition by Bob Dicker-
son, John Coburn and Thos.
Gleghorn at David Jones’,
Sydney, were two enormous
paintings (all the paintings are
enormous) “purchased by the
director for the trustees of the
N. S. Wales National Gallery”:
Dickerson’s “The Big Plunge”
at 90 guineas and Coburn’s
“Setting Sun” at 80 guineas.
An interesting point in
aesthetics would be why
Coburn should have valued
his sunset at ten guineas less
than “The Big Plunge,” for it
is just as big a plunge, if not
bigger. How you are really
to detect ten-guineas’ difference
in quality between a colossal
semi-abstract of a red sun
surrounded by a design of red-
hot wrought-iron bars, and a
large tacky caricature of a
punter, this commentator
knows not.
Dickerson has a feeling for
the comedy of character, and
some “sculptural” quality. The
surface of his paint is exceed-
ingly tacky and the general
effect that of a vastly over-
enlarged comic drawing.
Coburn is as good a § any other
abstractionist, groping his way
in paintings six-feet-square to
something he might eventually
find in paintings six-inches-
square.
Gleghorn’s “Silver Gull,”
rather like a bird done in tiles,
is as clever as any of the other
paintings, moderately attractive
in its blues and whites and
yellows, and for some odd
reason perhaps it was
modestly and reasonably priced
at 20 guineas—wasn’t bought
for the Gallery.
❖ *> ❖
Saying It Small
The admirable thing about
Muriel Elliott’s exhibition at
Sydney Grosvenor Galleries is
that, having a small talent, she
admits it; paints small; and
thereby makes the most of
what she has. There is nothing
pretentious about her ; and if
there is also nothing adven-
turous there is a grain of
genuine quality.
Her larger flowerpieces have
a kind of hard “literalness”
that falls short of "reality. She
does not see a flower as a con-
centration of light but as mere
local-color. Some of the
smaller ones, lacking light and
skill in arrangement and deal-
ing with bits of things like
daisies, look “bitty.”
But, as in a painting of pink
roses against a light-blue back-
ground, she makes a success
of some of these tiny paintings
by enriching the whole canvas.
The show is chiefly interest-
ing for her success in a few
minute landscapes “Barren-
joey Point,” “From the
Veranda, Kurrajong ’ and
“Oxley’s View, Kurrajong”—
where she shows a vigor lack-
ing in her flowers and also a
closer observation of both light
and texture.
❖ ♦> ❖
Modern Chinese
Two-hundred scroll - paint-
ings by a Chinese artist now
living in Australia Madame
Cheung Tai Ka —are showing
at Anthony Horderns’, Sydney.
They follow the traditional
Chinese styles and subject-
matter birds on twigs;
mountains ; misty waterfalls ;
twining flowers —but lack the
fine edge of delicate observa-
tion that made magic of the
ancient art; and so, on the
whole, though with touches of
charm, look rather like wall-
paper.
+> *i+
Melbourne Exhibitions
It is a bad week in Mel-
bourne if less than a dozen
shows open in city and suburbs,
and even the Blue Dandenongs
are inviting tourists to come
up and contemplate the giant
mountain-ashes, not flourishing
in the gullies, but figuring in
abstractions in local art shows.
Not that you’d recognise the
mountain-ashes in the abstrac-
tions, any more than you would
recognise Australia in the works
of Ojars Bisenieks, which are
hanging at the Gallery of
Contemporary Art in Mel-
bourne. Mr. Bisenieks isn’t
interested in holding his mirror
up to Nature ; he holds it up
to 'Paris fashions. It is a
highly polished mirror and pro-
vides an excellent reflection, but
there is nothing new or beauti-
ful about the pictures unless
you define “new” and “beauty”
in terms of Christian Dior.
Mr. Bisenieks is certainly a
more accomplished purveyor of
modern fashions than either
Elizabeth Blair Barber at the
Tasmanian Tourist Bureau’s
gallery or Alistair Gray at the
Victorian Artists’. Miss Barber
has a definite go at Nature as
exemplified in Perth and its
environs. She gives some of the
iovely variety of the bush in
King’s Park, but her technique
lags far behind her observation,
whereas Alistair Gray's tech-
nique is, possibly, ahead of his
observation. They come
together best in "Barwon
Heads” and “Harbor Study.”
The somewhat equivocally
titled “Rear of the Duke of
Wellington” is not a portrait of
the victor of .Waterloo from an
unusual angle but a view of the
backyard of a famous Mel-
bourne hostelry.
John Flexmore’s watercolors
at the Athenaeum are easily
assimilated. They reflect a
landscape fashion current in the
’nineties.
The “Australian Women’s
Weekly” travelling exhibition
of competition portraits has
made a stand at the National
Gallery in Melbourne. It can’t
be said that the response this
year has produced any out-
standing portraits, though as a
parade of modern fashions it is
up to standard. George Davis’s
“Sally Fitzgerald” is a possible
exception, having some
qualities of observation.
Charles Doutney’s “Dita,”
which won first prize, hasn’t
those qualities, and isn’t in the
same class as Kenneth Jack’s
’’Judith, the artist’s daughter.”
Balletomanes surging into
Her Majesty’s Theatre, Mel-
bourne, intent on surveying the
Borovansky ballet' in ’’Swan
Lake,” are nowadays con-
fronted in the foyer with
William Dargie's almost life-
size sketch of Kathleen
Gorham finishing a spin in the
arms of a male dancer. At
first sight it could be mistaken
for a poster by a skilful
illustrator who knows the
difficulty of conveying move-
ment on canvas and doesn't
attempt to do it.
In their drawing and graphic-
art show, members of the Vic-
torian Artists’ Society are
demonstrating that, generally,
they are better in the less com-
plex medium than they are in
painting. Possibly this is
because they make fewer
mistakes in the one than they
do in the other—they can’t go


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO CYRUS (or CYRIS) LYLE SKEWES
late of Uralla Street Uralla. —TAKE
NOTICE that ALICE LENORE SKEWES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2063 of 1957 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 13th September,
1957 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from GEORGE M.
EDWARDS & CO., Solicitors, of Bridge
Street, Uralla, N.S.W., or MERVYN
FINLAY & CO., Solicitors, 141 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO PETER CONNELLY late of 10
Short Street Wentworthville and late
of lot 12 Villiers Street Merrylands.—
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN CONNELLY
has filed a Petition for Divorce No
2843 of 1954 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 13tli September
1957 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from GILBERT CHARL-
TON MURDOCH, Solicitor, of 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney. J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. —In Divorce.
TO PETER URQUHART late of Seven
Hills—TAKE NOTICE that DAWN
URQUHART has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4527 of 1956 on the ground
of habitual drunkenness and repeated
assaults and cruel beatings and is
asking for the exercise of the Court’s
discretion under s. 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
17th September 1957 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
COLREAVY O’LEARY & McGINTY,
Solicitors, of 26 Bridge Street, Sydney.
—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
as far wrong in form as they
can in tone and color. Max
Middleton has a striking study
of a stout Italian who looks
as if spaghetti agreed with him,
and Mary Mac Queen deploys
a sensitive line in “Rococo
interior,” which gained her first
prize in the drawing section.
Although a trifle noisy, Will
Eager’s “Yarra at Kew” has
feeling, and John Farmer
renders a lovely little stretch
of bush in “Landscape.” The
judges awarded first prize in
the print section to Eric Thake s
“Ecstasy,” a black-and-white
lino-cut as stiff and hard as the
material it is made in.
Films
“The River’s Edge”
Ray Milland these days finds
himself locked in the strangest
cans of celluloid, and it is not
surprising to encounter him as
a suave racketeer in a hot spot
with Anthony Quinn and
Debra Paget in the high peaks
of Mexico.
Anthony Quinn —he has the
ideal mug for the Abominable
Snowman when they get round
to running him in Cinema Scope
—here plays a rugged rancher.
Miss Paget (a photogenic red-
head who doesn’t act) is his
wife, saved by their marriage
from serving a stretch over a
nasty business with old flame
Milland.
When Milland returns (in
white suit, grey Stetson and
mauve-colored Cadillac), she
gets that old feeling. But when
the three of them are hotfoot-
ing it over the border into
Mexico (Milland with a hot
million bucks in a . silver case,
Quinn as his well-paid guide),
she does a switch-back to her
husband —melodrama in the
mountains, where (need it be
said?) Milland meets his sticky
end.
Good photography and color,
some snappy dialogue and
sound performances by Milland
and Quinn give the film an
edge on many others of its
type.
At Sydney Plaza.
*
“Hot Summer Night”
The French made a remark-
ably-tense film, “Rififi,” in
which a master-criminal directs
his gang in a big and successful
robbery, only to have inter-
gang warfare kill every one of
them off before they can enjoy
the fruits of their felony. This
American film follows the same
basic plot, except that the
members of the same gang do
the killing.
In this case the gang-leader
is a local hero, who does his
good deeds as well as his bad
ones. An out-of-work reporter
on his honeymoon, sniffing a
scoop that will rehabilitate him,
ferrets-out the gang’s hide-out
and casts-up there, playing on
the leader’s known vanity—a
liking for seeing his name in
print. The scribe is held to
ransom, and his late paper
backs him to the tune of 50
“grand” (a bit indigestible,
that!). When an unstable,
trigger - happy gang - member
bumps-off the leader in jealous
rage, it looks as if the Fourth
Estate man is due for the
bullet for the second time, but
he comes out the sole survivor
to cash-in on the scoop-o’-the-
year.
Suspense is well maintained,
and characterisation is better
than is usual in this type of
film. Leslie Neilsen is the
indestructible newshound.
At Sydney St. James. .
❖ ❖ ❖
“The Vintage”
Also at Sydney St. James is
this leisurely-paced drama set
in the wine-growing districts of
southern France. Two Italian
brothers (Mel Ferrer and John
Kerr, the latter escaping from
the law) become grape-
snatchers during the harvest at
a vineyard, and the vigneron’s
wife (Michele Morgan) takes
more interest in the fugitive
than her jealous husband deems
proper. The wife’s single sister
(Pier Angeli) is attracted to the
other brother. Poppa blows his
top when he finds that the
younger man has carved in
wood a replica of his wife s
face, and gore flows con-
currently with the wine. Justice
—if not the audience —is satis-
fied, and even the taciturn,
surly Poppa manages a grin at
the final fade-out.
Except for Lief Ericson,
as the vigneron, and Pier
Angeli, who is generally able
to portray shy young love, the
character-drawing is shallow,
but the French wine-country
with its fast-running little
streams is a cameraman’s
delight.
»> ♦> ❖
“Boy on a Dolphin”
Jean Negulesco, who directed
“Three Coins in a Fountain,”
tries here to repeat that winner,
transferring the scene from
Italy to Greece. Again he
takes a legend—in this case a
piece of ancient-world statuary
which was in a ship sunk off
the island of Rhodes in the
/Egean—but he has not been
able to capture anything like
the charm of the Roman set-
ting and story.
For a start, he hasn’t the
right players: Alan Ladd is
too fleshy and lethargic for
the romantic role; Sophia
Loren, whose discovery of the
statuary while diving for
sponges sparks-off the jiggery-
pook for its possession, over-
does her Latin passions ; and
Clifton Webb, as an unscru-
pulous private collector, is too
rigid to lend any variety to
his role. One consolation is
the beauty of the settings.


Dues your WILL
still express your intentions?
The Trustees Executors & Agency
COMPANY LTD.
(•Mfporatcd m Victoria ill II7(
TR54.34
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets and other factors may affect
the intentions expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desirable that you
consult your solicitor and have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages of appointing The Trustees
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd. as your Executor. Its appointment gains
for your Estate, at a fixed and moderate charge, the services of a company
with over three-quarters of a century’s specialised experience in the
Administration of Estates.
★ Advantages of appointing the Company either alone or jointly with
some trusted relative or friend.
A Moderate and fixed scale of charges.
★ Schedule of Probate and Estate Duties.
4QI COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Capitol (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £972,972.
A. R. L. Wiltshire, C.M.G., D. 5.0.. M.C.. V.D. (Chairmen): W. Sydney June*;
J. Cuming Stewart; Hugh R. Syme; R. H. Norman, D.S.O , M.C., V.D.; W. E. M.
Campbell; T. L. Webb.
David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., Q.C. (Chairman); J. Cadwallader; Sir-Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
K.8.E., C.M.G., D. 5.0.. E.D.; Thomas B. Heffer; W. Sydney Jones; Alan G- foTTer.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
CjHARING fully in the post-war life—
assurance boom, the 78-year-old City
Mutual Life Assurance Society has more
than doubled its assets since 1948 and at
the same time rewarded policyholders—■
there are no shareholders—by jacking-up
bonus-rates on no fewer than five
occasions in the last six years.
New business was, once again, at record
levels last term (this has happened regu-
larly since 1942), the society’s 9366 new
policies assuring a total of £18,014,407
(up £1,725,369). Income, too, was the
highest on record, rising by £664,928
to £5,711,447, while capital-profits con-
tributed another £48,310. Claims (up
£163,252) took 28.6 p.c. of income (29.2
p.c. in 1955), and there was a pleasing
drop in the expense-rate, calculated by the
co. at 11.7 p.c. of “total normal income,”
compared with 12.4 p.c. in the preceding
year:
Writ- Increase
ten Total
Dee., Income. Claim*. Expense*. Off. Assets.
£ £ £ £ £
Profit, sale property, £19,676 •• 1 i ««
1952.. 3,526,532 1.056,336 576,833 85,364 !
Profit, sale property, £25,897 ..]
1953. . 4,031,907 1,128,257 644,266 78,585 1 2,269,237
To general reserve, £60,000 .. J
Profit, sale property, £73,881 .. 1
Interest from prior years, £20,565.. |
Tax-refund, £85,607 .. .. .. | , OAA
1954. . 4,566,216 1,245,472 677,450 89,918
To general reserve, £200,000
To deferred repairs, £15,000 ..
Profit, sale property, £10,573 ..
Tax-refund, £94,418
1955. . 6,046,519 1,474,846 734,579 78,431 [3,212,280
To general reserve, £ 100,000
To staff fund, £15,000
Profit sale assets, £48,310 .. ..
Tax everprovided, £34,000 .. .. „ „ 0 .
1956. . 5,711,447 1,638,098 821,306 88,366 3,2/4,.5i
To general reserve, £lOO,OOO
An alteration to accounting procedures
was responsible f0r£86,417 of the £476,357
jump in premium income, total income
including an extra £188,571 in rents,
interest, divs., etc.
The co., a wholly mutual society opera-
ting in all Australian States, completed
the term (to December 31) with over
140,000 ordinary life-policies on its books.
No industrial life business is handled.
Including a provision for bonus-
equalisation, policy liabilities were cal-
culated, on a 2i p.c. net-premium basis, at
£31,437,597 (up £1,978,867), leaving a
surplus of £1,293,120 after providing
£127,697 (up £39,586) for taxes and a
practically unaltered £28,366 for deprecia-
tion :
Income— 1955. 1956.
Premium®, etc. . . . . £3,704,318 £4,180,675
Interest, divs., etc... .. 1,342,201 1,530,772
Surplus sale asset®, etc. .. 10,573 48,310
Total £5,067,092 £5,759,757
Oubro and charges—
Paid to policyholders ~ 1,474,846 1,638,098
Expenses* .. .. .. 763,010 .849,672
Increased actuarial liability 1,781,791 1,978,867
Total £4,019,647 £4,466,637
Surplus .. 1,037,446 1,293,120
* Includes taxes, depreciation and contribution to
staff fund.
Excess tax-provisions written-back
increased the total surplus by £34,000,
the board writing down assets by £60,000,
sending £lOO,OOO to reserves and alloca-
ting all but £2034 of the remainder as
reversionary bonuses:
1954. 1955. 1956.
Surplus earned* .. £948,212 £1,037,446 £1,293,120
Interest prior year 20,565 -
Tax refund, etc... 85,607 94,418 34,000
Brought forward. . 38,261 40,396 43,272
Total surplus. . £1,092,645 £1,172,259 £1,370,392
Bonuses to poliey-
holderst .. 767.249 963,987 1,165,086
To write down assets 70,000 50,000 60,000
To staff fund .. 15,000
To reserve .. 200,000 100,000 100,000
To deferred repairs 15,000
To carry forward . 40,396 43,272 45,300
* Includes surplus on realisation assets. f Includes
provision for interim bonuses.
On this occasion the bonuses, £201,099
higher at £1,165,086, were calculated on a
compound basis (under which previous
bonuses are included with the sum
assured in the calculations), continued
improvement in the effective interest-rate
(up Is. 7d. p.c. to £4 13s. 9d. p.c.) helping
to make the bigger bonuses possible, and,
incidentally, bringing the total increase in
the interest-rate since 1950 to £1 2s. 4d.
p.c.
Investments, the basic factor in deter-
mining interest-rates, are in the follow-
ing form, mortgage-loans replacing Com-
monwealth bonds (up £800,870) last term
as the largest single item:
1955. p.e. 1956. p.e.
Com’wealth stock £11,211,591 85.2 £12,912,461 34.2
Local-goU. stock. 886.176 2.2 £40,201 2.4
Shares and del>s. 5,843,756 18.4 6,161,297 17.4
Mortgages .. 11,182,157 35.1 12*781,282 36.3
Loans on policies 1,015,018 8.2 1,166,0*3 3.3
Debtors, etc. .. 588,519 1.8 748,913 2.1
Lash, etc. .. 433,236 1.4 802,203 1.4
Properties .. 865,611 2.7 1,009,410 2.9
Total . . .. £31,826,059 £ 36,100,860
The emphasis has been on mortgage-
loans (mainly for home-purchase) for
several years now, last year’s £1,549,125
increase, which took the total to
£12,731,282, or 36.3 p.c. of all assets,
giving promise of further improvements in
investment-income.
Goodyear Tyre & Rubber Co.
TOURING October last year the Good-
year Tyre and Rubber Co. produced
its 15-millionth Australian tyre, just on
29 years after production began at
Granville (N.S.W.).
Earlier (1915) the parent Goodyear
Tyre and Rubber Co., of Akron (Ohio),
had set-up an importing subsidiary here
and business grew steadily. Then, m
1926, to get round the tariff wall, it was
decided to manufacture in the Common-
wealth. The present co. was formed and
it took over the business and assets of
the old subsidiary. The Australian public
was offered £300,000 of 8 p.c. cum. prefs.
and the parent took up a half-million £1
ords. for cash.
A 20-acre freehold was bought at
Granville and a factory was put up which
got into production in November, 1927.
Tyres and tubes account for the bulk of
the co.’s output. The rest is spread over
a variety of tyre-repair and -retread
materials, batteries and accessories, in-
dustrial hose and conveyor-, elevator- and
transmission-belting.
Total sales aren't disclosed, but the
following figures show how Australian
output of all kinds of tyres (bicycle-tyres


excepted) and inner-tubes has moved in
the last half-dozen terms:
Australian Production Statistics.*
Tyres. Tubes. Tyres. Tubes.
1951 2,245,000 1,960,000 | 1954 2,890,000 2,491,00.0
1952 2,577,000 2,070,000 i 1955 3,515,000 3,095,000
1953 1,687,000 1,549,000 | 1956 3,594,000 2,388,000
* Source: Commonwealth Bureau o£ Census and
Statistics, Canberra.
Production was at a slightly lower rate
over the last nine months of the financial
year just ended while the industry worked
down stocks which had accumulated
owing to the fall in the number of new-
vehicle registrations and the slower rate
of replacement of tyres on vehicles
already on the roads.
Goodyear claims that a growing pre-
ference is being shown for its products
(it was first in the field wtih tubeless-
tyres and the harder-wearing synthetic
“cold” rubber), and to meet the demand
and take care of future needs the co. is
spending £2-million on modernisation and
expansion at Granville. When the work is
completed by the end of the year capacity
of its plant will be 25 p.c....greater and
the quality of products much higher.
For "the year to December 31 profit fell
sharply. Wage-costs were up, and the
use of synthetic rubber (now about 40
p.c. of the industry’s total rubber con-
sumption) involved extra manufacturing
expense:—
Parent Co.
(— —Dividends v
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec. Profit. 8 p.c. 36.8 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1950.. 596,244 24*000 572,244 1,322,290
From tax reserve, £lBO,OOO .. 1.502,290
1951.. 750,844 24,000 726,844 2,229,134
From inner reserves, £143,878 . . .2,373,012
1952.. 452,689 24,000 428,689 2,801,701
From inner reserves, £132,000 .. 2,933,701
40 p.c.
1953.. 807,732 24,000 500,000 283,732 3,217,433
80 p.c.
1954.. 816,262 24,000 1,000,000 3,009,695
Parent and Subsidiary.
1955.. 907,898 24,000 883,898 3,893,593
1956.. 710,177 24,000 686,177 4,579,770
After providing an extra £85,563 depreci-
ation (£485,383) and £158,200 less co.-
tax (£565,800) net earnings of parent and
subsidiary were £197,721 smaller at
£710,177. Allowing £24,000 for preference
shareholders, it represented 54.9 p.c. on
the £1,250,000 of ords. compared with
70.7 p.c. in 1955. Finance was needed
for the development programme and,
again, no ord. div. was paid. The fact
that all the ords. are under one control
has made it an easy matter to plough-
back profits to suit the co.’s require-
ments. Retained earnings at the end of
the year totalled £4,579,770.
Additions to land, buildings and plant
were reflected in a net rise of £403,293
in the book-value (cost less depreciation)
of fixed assets. Debtors, etc., were up
£125,290:
r —-Parent and
Parent Co. Subsidiary.
Paid capital— 1954. 1955. 1956.
Pref £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000
Reserves .. 3,009.696 3,893,594 4,579,771
Debentures .. 1,900,000 2,045,000 1,940,000
Creditors .. 1,034,219 919.240 934,987
Tax provision .. 1,022,044 1,208,449 1,094,911
£8,515,959 £9,616,283 £10,099,669
Freehold land . . 22,134 22,134 57,858
Buildings, plant 1,828,943 1,908,803 2,276.372
Stock .. .. 4,866,524 5,565,109 5,532,425
Debtors .. .. 1,621,020 2,054,172 2,179,462
Cash .. .. 177,338 66,065 53,552
£8,515,959 £9,616,283 £10,099,669
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£3,795,541) vis
£177,884.
Raw-material prices have been fairly
stable. Between September 15 and March
29 the price of natural raw rubber fell
about 5 p.c., from 40.3 d. a lb. to 38.2 d.
a lb. The cheaper synthetic product has
risen from 28d. a lb. to 29d. a lb. In the
near future the tyre industry should be
able to get about half its carbon-black
requirements from a modern plant to
be built at Altona (Vic.) by two American
manufacturers. The plant will produce
from 25-million lb. to 30-million lb. of
carbon-black a year, and save an annual
expenditure overseas of around £2-
million.
At 255. 6d. the £1 prefs. offer a return
of 6.5 p.c. Net tangible cover (book-
values) is £2O Bs. Bd.
Maryborough Knitting Mills (Vic.)
SHOULD the pace become too hot for
local manufacturers in the expansion
of trade expected to follow the new
Japanese-Australian trade-pact, the Com-
monwealth has reserved the right to
introduce a special emergency tariff
and/or import-restrictions on Japanese
goods. Before this becomes necessary,
however, it is expected that Japan will
honor the terms of the agreement by
voluntarily using restraint in the conduct
of its export trade with Australia.
Until now Australian manufacturers
have been sheltered from Japanese com-
petition by the higher tariff duties applied
to goods from Japan than from other
non-dollar sources and to discriminatory
import-licensing controls, both of which
will be removed from a large number of
goods, including textiles. Earlier this
year Australian manufacturers of woollen
yarns and piecegoods unsuccessfully
sought a general raising of tariffs on im-
ported woollens.
The rayon-weaving industry’s applica-
tion for increased protection is still before
the Tariff Board.
This Victorian manufacturer is chiefly
interested in the production of knitted
underwear. The central mill is at Mary-
borough, and there are three branch
factories, at Dunolly, Talbot and Avoca.
A small associated concern, Interknit
Hosiery Co., Ltd., turns out woollen half-
hose.
Last term, in spite of a “difficult and
competitive” market, a record quantity of
goods was produced, and gross earnings
shot up £42,306 to £211,584. Working-
expenses (£99,678) took only £3629 of the
gain, and taxation (£42,000) an additional
£16,000. Depreciation provision was the
same at £15,000. The amount is said to
be substantially more than can be claimed
for income-tax purposes:
f Dividends——, To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. All Shares. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1950 .. 34,927 22.2 p.c. = 18,914 16,013 263,770
1951 . . 66,709 22.2 „ „ 24,825 41.884 305.654
Reserves capitalised, £18,618 .. 287,036
1952 . . 31,673 10 p.c. = 18,619 13,054 300,090
From tax reserve, £3565 .. .. 303,655
1953 .. 29,526 10 p.c. = 18,618 10,908 314,563
From tax reserve, £7859 .. .. 322,422
1954 .. 62,764 10 p.c. = 18,619 44,145 366,567
Tax underprovided, £2145 .. .. 364,422
1955 .. 52,425 12$ p.c. - 23,273 29,152 393,574
Tax overprovided, £2288 .. .. 395,862
1956 .. 32,229 12J p.c. = 24,049 8,180 404,042
Tax underprovideu, £1076 .. .. 402,966
1957 . . 54,906 12$ p.c. = 27,928 26,978 429,944
On average capital (pref. and ord. com-
bined) the £54,906 of profit was 24.6 p.c.
compared with 16.2 p.c. in 1956, and
28.1 p.c., 33.7 p.c., 15.8 p.c. and 17 p.c.
back to 1951. The 12| p.c. div. thus isn’t
likely to be interfered with.
This is the financial position:
Paid capital—• 1955. 1956. 1957.
Pref £26,263 £26,262 £26,262
Ord 159,923 172,772 221,986
Reserves .. 393,574' 464,042 429,944
Overdraft .. 24,462
Creditors .. 43,091 24,808 24,813
Staff fund .. 6,000 6,000 6,000
Tax reserve .. 32,500 26,000 42,000
Dividends .. 28,273 24,049 27,928
£709,086 £683,933 £778,933
Freeholds .. 74,601 74,836 94,350
Plant, etc. .. 108,813 102,012 93,637
Shares .. .. 7,057 7,057 7,057
Stocks .. .. 374.801 325,923 349,409
Debtors .. .. 123,852 138,909 129,216
Cash, bonds, etc. 19,962 35,196 105,264
£709,086 £683,933 £778,933
And there is probably far more strength
to the concern than meets the eye in those
figures. An extra £49,214 fresh capital
was gathered in during the year. Together
with withheld earnings and a drop of
£9693 in book-debts it covered additions
of £11,139 net to fixed assets and £23,486
to stocks, and bumped-up cash in hand
or at call by £70,068. The extensions and
improvements to the Maryborough mill,
which were to cost £60,000, will be com-
pleted this year.
On the basis of a p.c. div., old and
new f.-p. ss. ords. are currently quoted
at Bs. to yield 7.8 p.c. The ss. prefs.
seldom appear on the market. Net
tangible cover is £6 9s. Id. the prefs.,
14s. Bd. the ords.
James Hardie Asbestos, Ltd.
YJUHILE the shortage of finance for
” home-building has, no doubt, had
some effect on the profits of James
Hardie Asbestos, Ltd., a conservative,
but sound, accounting policy appears to
be at least partly responsible for the drop
in the net earnings claimed by the co.
last term.
A holding co., James Hardie Asbestos
was formed in 1920 (as Hardie Asbestos
Cement, Ltd.), developing from an im-
porting business established in 1888. Five
subsidiary cos., with factories in all main-
land States and New Zealand, turn out a
range of asbestos-cement products, in-
cluding flat and corrugated sheets,
guttering and high-pressure water-pipes.
In addition, the group manufactures terra-
cotta roofing-tiles and brake-linings, the
latter for use in most types of motor
vehicle.
Since the scrip was listed, less than six
years ago, shareholders have received two
bonus-issues (one-for-10 in 1954 and one-
for-two in 1955), but, despite this,
reserves still exceed the £1,997,500 paid
capital by a substantial amount. The
div.-rate was increased from 8 p.c. to
p.c. in 1954 and to 15 p.c. in 1955,
dropping back to 10 p.c. after the one-
for-two bonus late in 1955. Divs., some
of them partly tax-free, have taken less
than half of the earnings in five of the
last seven years and recent expansion
has been financed largely from undistri-
buted profits.
Turnover has risen steadily since the
public was offered a share in the co., and


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
C.l. Australian and Overseas Patents
Trade Marks. — ADVT.
0-
How
a bout my
lift
/VsS uraNC6^
Remind Dad about a Child'*
Advancement Policy. A small premium will look after
my education or launch me on a career.
"The Metropolitan" has a number of suitable policies.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE CO. LTD.
HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. BW 8061
from the chairman’s remarks at
the recent annual meeting,
further improvement in output
won’t be hindered by lack of
plant. Referring to the need
for additional finance to
stimulate homebuilding, the
chairman (A. Thyne Reid)
claimed that the group “could
produce far greater supplies of
building - materials without
straining present manufacturing
resources.”
Group-turnover last term
(undisclosed) increased by
approximately 7 p.c., earnings,
before tax, depreciation, or
staff-fund payments, rising by
£137,194 to £1,341,523. Charged
against profit, payments to
staff-funds in the ’56 term
included a £IOO,OOO grant
(applied to the purchase of
scrip in the co.), last term’s
figure dropping by £69,556 to
£32,304. However, provision
for depreciation, including an
unstated amount for the
increase in replacement-costs,
was £140,607 higher at
£480,802, while the tax-pro-
vision, up £88,062 to £491,307,
was sufficient to cover earnings
much higher than the net
£337,110 (down £21,919)
claimed for the year:
Consolidated Figures.
Mar. Re-
-31. Profit. /-—Dividends —>, serves.!
£ £ £
Addjed reserves, £3334 .. 1,910,253
Reserves capitalised,
£382,714 .. .. 1,527,539
1952.. 403 8 p.c= 91,929 1,636,013
Added reserves, £3451 .. 1,639,464
1953.. 293.835 8 p.c.= 92,000 1,841,299
Reserves appear on ac-
quisitions of assets,
£6913 .. .. 1,848,212
Added reserves, £78,572.. 1,926,784
1954.. 777 12Jp.c.=143,750 2,084,811
Reserves capitalised,
£114,917 .. .. 1,969,894
Added reserves, £100,046.. 2,069,940
1955.. 438.249 15 p.c.=189.750 2,318,439
Assets revalued, £728,822 3,047,261
Reserves capitalised,
£632,500 .. .. 2,414,761
Reduction in reserves,
£3244 .. .. 2,411,517
1956.. 029 10 p.c.=189,750 2,580,796
Added reserves on ac-
quisition of subsidiary,
etc., £117,705 .. 2,698,501
Additions, sinking fund,
£3959 .. 2,702,460
1957.. 337.11ff-10 p.c.=197,250 2,842,320
t Subject to goodwill, £98,449 at
31/3/’57.
The div.-rate was unaltered at
10 p.c. (although the div. lacked
the previous term’s 1 p.c. tax-
free content); earnings, which
exclude £121,664 added to
reserves by various adjustments,
equalling a shade under 17.1
p.c. of paid capital, compared
with 18.9, 34.6, 26.5 and 25.5
p.c. in the four preceding years.
The purchase of a 50 p.c.
outside shareholding in a pre-
viously jointly-owned co.,
operating in South Australia,
contributed to the £276,892
increase in fixed assets, the
generous depreciation allow-
ance offsetting part of the heavy
capital-expenditure. Two new
plants will go into operation in
the current term (one turning-
out brake-linings and the other
water-pipes), and work will
continue or commence on a
further three factories, includ-
ing an asbestos treatment-mill.
Fixed assets are in the accounts
partly at 1955 valuation and
partly at cost, less depreciation.
The financial structure is sound
enough:—
Consolidated . Balance-sheet.
1956. 1957.
Paid capital .. £1,897,500 £1,997,500
Reserves .. 2,580,796 2,842,320
Mortgage .. 300,000 364,480
Overdraft .. 367,979 167,563
Creditors, etc. ... 1,200,314 1,142,245
Tax provision .. 866,747 906,721
Final dividend .. 94,875 99,875
£7,308,211 £7,520,704
.Freeholds, plant,
etc 2,987,339 3,264,231
Shares .. .. 231,119 206,119
Stocks .. .. 2,857,869 2,224,469
Debtors .. 1,063,291 1,323,274
Cash, bonds .. 70,144 404,162
Goodwill ... 98,449 98,449
£7,308,211 £7,520,704
After climbing quite steeply for
a couple of years, stocks
dropped sharply (down
£633,400 or 22 p.c.), and with
retained earnings and the
£lOO,OOO of new capital enabled
the co. to strengthen its hold-
ings of cash and bonds by
£334,018 as well as providing
most of the funds needed for
the capital-expenditure, reduc-
tions in creditors (down
£58,069) and overdraft (down
£200,416) and the extra
££59,983 in book-debts. By the
end of the term working-capital
was £174,112 stronger at
£1,635,501.
The current term has seen
little improvement in the
demand for building-materials
generally, but the co. expects a
continuation of the growth in
turnover, the board, with
reasonable reservations,
anticipating ‘‘continued
prosperity in the next 12
months.”
The f.-p. £1 ords. have a net
tangible backing of 475. 6d. and
at 535. 3d. would return 3.7 p.c.
from a 10 p.c. div.
H. McKenzie, Ltd.
rURRENTLY airing its
grievances before the
Tariff Board in Sydney is the
sawmilling industry. Feeling
keenly the pinch in building
activity and seeing a way out
of its difficulties in a reduction
in the quantity of softwood
timbers being imported into
Australia, it has asked for
increases in duty on imported
undressed timber of up to 261
p.c. A similar request for
tariff protection in 1954 was
refused by the board.
Generally speaking, Aus-
tralian sawmills aren’t organised
for economic large-scale pro-
duction, and, especially in
N.S.W., high freights and
royalties make it possible for
foreign timbers to undersell the
local product. Also, considera-
tions of price apart, there has
been a long-standing preference
in the building trade for the
light overseas softwoods. But
for import-controls it seems
probable that their use would
be even greater than it is at
present.
Sixty-six-year-old H. Mc-
Kenzie dropped most of its
sawmilling activities back in
the ’twenties. These days the
business is built mainly around
timber-importing and -process-
ing and joinery-making, carried
on in what used to be the
N.S.W. State Sawmill at Rhodes
(Sydney). The yard covers
about 13 acres with a frontage
to Parramatta River, which
means that lighters can bring
most overseas timber direct
from ship's side to the mill
wharf.
Last term the money-value
of sales rose slightly, but
because the State Government
resumed control of prices
during the year business was
done on smaller profit-margins.
After providing something for
taxation and £761 less for
depreciation (£8407) net earn-
ings dipped £10,960, to £32,625,
and the distribution to share-
holders was trimmed accord-
ingly:—
Re-
March, Profit, f Dividends—serves.
£ £ £
1953.. 16,118 10 p.c. = 11,788 44,807
To staff fund, £4OOO .. 40,807
Profit sale assets, £1492 .. 42,299
1954.. 31,321 10 p.c. = 11,788 61,832
To staff fund, £2OOO .. 69,832
Assets revalued, £34,425 .. 94,257
Reserve capitalised, £30,000 64,257
Profit sale assets, £531 .. 64,788
1955.. 35,962 10 p.c. =13,394 87,356
1956.. 32,625 Hi „ ~ 16,875 103,106
Profit sale assets, £1548 .. 104,654
Assets revalued, £22,525 .. 127,179
1957.. 21,665 10 p.c. = 15,000 133,844
Disposal of unwanted plant and
machinery showed a profit of
£1548, and to bring the book-
value of the Rhodes freehold
(land only) into line with the
latest V.-G. the co. wrote-up
the asset by £22,525.
Later this month the board
will seek the formal approval of
shareholders to convert the co.’s
f.-p. Bs. shares into ss. stock.
The existing capital-structure
reflects the difficulties en-
countered in 1925, when, to
cover losses in connection with
the Patrick line of steamships
and the co.’s Fraser Island
(Queensland) venture, ss.
(£70,000) was lopped-off each
pound share, followed three
years later by another slash of
Is. 6d. a share and the return
of Is. 6d. in cash. During the
slump of the ’thirties another
4s. was written-off each share,
reducing paid capital to
£117,879, all in Bs. shares.
In 1955, following a previous
writing-up of the Rhodes
property, £30,000 of bonus-
scrip was handed to share-
holders. Of the £26,950 now
standing to the credit of revalu-
ation reserve directors state that


(The requirements of Section 137 of the New South Wales Companies Act relating to pros-
pectuses have not been fully complied with in this Abridged Prospectus. The full Prospectus
dated the Fifth day of July, 1957, has been filed with the Registrar General of the State of
N.S.W., who takes no responsibility for its contents. Applications for sharps will be received only
upon one of the forms of application referred to in and accompanying a printed copy of the
Prospectus.)
COAST DRIVE-IN THEATRES LIMITED
(Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1936, of New South Wales.)
Registered Office: 16 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
300,000
29,400
140,600
130,000
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
of an issue at par of
140,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each payable in full on application.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
Shares of £ 1 each .. .. .. .. ~ ~ ,
ISSUED CAPITAL
Ordinary Shares of £1 each fully paid . . . . . . ,
NOW OFFERED FOR SUBSCRIPTION
Ordinary Shares of £1 each .. . , .. ,
TO BE HELD IN RESERVE
Shares of £ 1 each .. .. .. .. ~ ,
£300,000
£29,400
£140,600
£130,000
300,000 £300,000
. DIRECTORS
JAMES HAYES FARRAR (Chairman), 19 Grosvenor Road, Lindfield,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
FELIX EMERSON HEADLAM, 14 Spring Street, Sydney, Share Broker.
KENNETH FRANCIS EVANS FIDDEN, 7 Eastern Avenue, Kensington, Company Director.
LEONARD LAUGHTON BRENNAN, 147 Albany Street, Gosford, Company Director.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
JOHN MICHAEL KILROY, Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
BANKERS „
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED, 156 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS
HENRY' DAYIS & SONS, 44 Alartin Place, Sydney.
FRANK A. DAVENPORT & MANT, 60 Hunter Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS
B. W. LODER & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
UNDERWRITING BROKERS
F. E. HEADLAM & CO., 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange.)
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
The objects for which the Company is incor-
porated are stated in the Memorandum of Asso-
ciation, a copy of which forms part of the
Prospectus.
Coast Drive-in Theatres Limited was formed
as a holding company to acquire all the issued
shares of Coast Theatres Pty. Limited, and this
has now been done.
The subsidiary company is the registered pro-
prietor of an area of land in excess of fourteen
(14) acres which has a frontage to New Terrigal
Road, Erina, near Gosford, and also access to
Commerce Street. It is proposed to proceed as
soon as practicable with the construction of a
modern and up-to-date Drive-in Theatre on this
site, which is considered by the directors to be
eminently suitable for this purpose.
Coast Theatres Pty. Limited was granted a
licence to operate a Drive-in Theatre at Erina
on 4th March, 1957.
PURPOSE OF THE ISSUE
The purpose of this issue is to provide funds
for advances to Coast Theatres Pty. Limited to
finance the construction, equipping and opera-
tion of the Drive-in Theatre and to provide the
sum of £O,BOO, being the balance payable for
acquisition of all the shares in Coast Theatres
Pty. Limited.
$
PROSPECTS OF THE COMPANY
The Erina drive-in is beautifully positioned
to serve a prosperous agricultural district as
well as an important and expanding holiday
area. The map gives this picture clearly and
shows the district covered by a ten-mile radius
from which the drive-in will draw its patronage.
American experience is that any district with
a population of not less than 20,000 can support
a drive-in, irrespective of existing conventional
theatres. Erina drive-in has twice this number
of permanent population within a radius of ten
miles, made up of Gosford Shire 27.000 and
Wyong Shire 14,000. The influx of holiday
makers for the period October to April doubles
this population on an average, and reaches an
estimated peak of 120,000 during the December-
January period.
There is also an appreciable population
increase in the winter months from the rapidly
increasing number of family weekend homes iii
the lake and coastal areas.
The temperate Gosford climate is , ideal for
year-round drive-in operation. It has been
found that fog is the only hazard to the outdoor
show, and the Erina drive-in. situated on the
crest of a hill practically on the intersection of
the Entrance and Terrigal Roads, is well above
the fog area. These roads are main roads and
within the area from which the drive-in will
draw its patronage; high-class sealed roads
serve all sections of the district.
A most modern and up-to-date barbecue and
snack bar will be available for use of patrons,
and also a children’s playground.
It is anticipated that the Company’s Drive-in
Theatre will open in November, 11)57.
DIVIDENDS
The directors propose to pay dividends half-
yearly and anticipate that the Company should
be able to maintain a dividend at the rate of
15 per cent, per annum.
All shares of the present issue will rank for
dividend pari passu with the existing issued
ordinary shares.
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
The Company’s Memorandum and Articles of
Association have been prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the Sydney Stock
Exchange, and application will be made for
official quotation of the Company’s shares on
the official list of the Sydney Stock Exchange
as soon as practicable after allotment.
APPLICATION FOB SHARES
Applications for shares in this issue will be
accepted only on the form of application
attached to the Prospectus and should be lodged
with the Underwriters, Messrs. F. E. Headlam
& Co. at 14 Spring Street, Sydney, or with a
member of any recognised Stock Exchange.
Applications must be for iOO shares or
multiples thereof and accompanied by a pay-
ment of the full amount of £1 per share on the
number of shares applied for.
The subscription lists for the shares now
offered for public subscription will be opened
at 10 a.in. on Monday, Stli July, 1957, and will
close at 3 p.m. on Friday, 9th August, 1957, but
the directors reserve the right to close the lists
Without notice at any earlier time.
The minimum amount which must be raised
by the issue of these shares is £140,600.
they have “no present intention
of recommending any form 013
distribution.”
Other fixed assets (buildings,
plant, etc.) showed a net fall
of £l5Bl on the year:—
1956. 1957.
Paid capital £150,000 £150,000
Reserves .. 108,106 133,844
Notes .. 45,000
Overdraft .. 42,002 16,644
Creditors*.. 80,791 \ Q „
Staff fund .. 6,000 | Bo,il-
Final div. .. 10,875 15,000
£398,774 £444,200
Freeholds .. 63,529 88.166
Plant, etc. .. 42,321 38,628
Investments 7,798 7,798
stoc k .. 204,159 213,374
Uebtors .. 80,771 95,657
Cash .. 190 577
£398,774 £444,200
Includes tax—provision.
To finance the growth in stocks
and debtors and work-off some
of the overdraft and trade-
creditors, the co. made use of
the surplus profit and borrowed
£50,000 from the M.L.C.
Assurance Co. The loan carries
7+ p.c. interest, and is repay-
able in 10 equal annual instal-
ments beginning last December.
Latest building figures pre-
pared by the Sydney Metro-
politan Water Board don’t
give much encouragement for
the current term, and the share-
market prices the Bs. shares at
no more than Bs. 6d. to return
9.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
A price of around ss. 4d. would
get the same yield from a ss.
share. Net tangible cover on
the new footing would be
9s. sd.
Coffs Harbor Rutile, N.L.
1? UTILE production in
AV N.S.W. continues to climb
as newcomers to the field get
into production and plant
extensions become effective.
During the quarter completed
last March, 22,837 tons of
rutile concentrates was pro-
duced (by 13 cos.), compared
with only 11,685 tons (from
nine cos.) in the corresponding
quarter of the previous year.
A contributor to the statistics
for the current quarter, Coffs
Harbor Rutile, N.L., recently
announced the completion of
its mining and separation plants
which are located at Coffs
Harbor (N.S.W.). The co. has
sold the bulk of its output for
the next three years at what the
board considers a “profitable”
figure. Cash resources are
stated to be sufficient to finance
current operations. The new
plant is capable of producing
100 tons of rutile and a similar
quantity of zircon per week.
Formed last year, Coffs
Harbor Rutile has issued
1,270,000 ss. shares, the market
pricing the scrip, paid to 35., at
2s. 6d.


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated by Royal Charter A.D. 1720)
Assets exceed £52,000,000 sterling.
A truly British Institution closely integrated with the
economic growth of Australia.
Head Office for Australia:
77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
F. H. Egerton,
Manager for Australia.
London Airmail
From Herbert Holman
A PART from a suspicion
that the Shipbuilding and
Engineering Unions have little
intention of honoring the spirit
of the wages standstill, Britain’s
industrial front is remarkably
peaceful.
Even in the dockyards,
notorious for uneasy labor
relations and as a ready stamp-
ing-ground for agitators, the
workers seem to be compara-
tively satisfied. There has been
no major stoppage of work for
two years—a very long period
for a habitually turbulent
industry. This is jiot to say that
the docker has outgrown his
age-long prejudices. He still
tends to be easily disgruntled
and suspicious of new methods,
but, at least, he genuinely feels
that many of his grievances
have been settled.
What is noteworthy is the
positive achievement of the
Transport and General
Workers’ Union in carrying out
reforms after the disastrous
strike in the autumn of 1954,
and, especially, in bringing
about a closer relationship
between its officials and the
rank-and-file. The result,
besides making for a greater
degree of stability, has also
nullified the efforts of the
Communist clique whose
repeated unofficial strikes
were often directed against
“absentee” union officials.
Moreover, the Dock Labor
Scheme, which was introduced
after the war primarily with
the object of bringing security
of employment to the essenti-
ally casual laborer, seems to be
operating satisfactorily, despite
the fact that employers don't
like it (because, in effect, the
Dock Labor Boards deprive
them of their authority) and
the workers don’t trust it
(because their unions are, in
part, their bosses).
On the other hand, the
prospect of a halt in wage-costs
inflation is dim. Quite apart
from the inevitable inflationary
consequences of the increase
in the cost of coal, the engineer-
ing and shipbuilding employers
can hardly feel cheerful about
the outcome of their recent
concession (a 6\ p.c. increase
conditional upon a 12 months’
wages standstill). For no
sooner had the unions agreed
than they tabulated a new claim
to be put forward at the year’s
end ; one specified an escape-
clause in the event of “a
deterioration in the standard of
life,” seeking “adjustments
which will maintain the living
standards of our members.”
And the secretary, a prominent
Communist, of this union came
forward with an immediate
counter to the wages stand-
still ; a reduction of the work-
ing week from 44 to 40 hours ;
consolidation of pieceworkers’
supplements into their basic
wage; and an increase in
annual paid holidays by a
week and in statutory holidays
by two days.
None of these recommenda-
tions is, strictly, a wage-claim,
but, because of overtime (few
of these men work less than 48
hours a week), the total cost
to the employers would be con-
siderable —perhaps as much as
the equivalent of a 15 p.c. pay-
increase.
In Premium Bondage
A further two years at least
must pass before the Govern-
ment can evaluate the worth
of its premium bonds, for it is
impossible in a shorter period
to consider the seasonal varia-
tions which affect national
savings. Despite a serious
dropping-away of sales after
the first three months, the
authorities now are justifiably
optimistic.
Whether or not this “safe”
and innocuous kind of flutter
is, or is not, gambling is a
nicety of discussion, but it
remains a hard truth that the
innovation (introduced by Mr.
Macmillan, then Chancellor of
the Exchequer, in his 1956
Budget) was more than a mere
venture ; it was an enormous
gamble. The immediate cost,
before a single prize was paid,
of floating the project was
somewhere in the region of
£1,250,000. Moreover, a long
period of trial was entailed. So
that, if the scheme failed to
catch on, the taxpayer would
have a hefty deficit to meet.
The immediate disappoint-
ment was the “once-for-all”
nature of the deposits. That
is to say, people were dis-
inclined to buy bonds at
regular intervals, as the
authorities earnestly hoped
they would. Sales in Novem-
ber were at the rate of £lO
million a week, then fell steeply,
to £1 million a week in
January and £750,000 a week
after the Budget in April—a
rate which, if not improved,
would mean failure.
The latest returns endorse
the authorities’ conviction that
the first prize-distribution on
June 1 would stimulate interest.
Sales rose at once to a weekly
rate of £2 million and, a fort-
night later, to £4 million. They
are particularly delighted at
this result because this is the
time of year when, owing to
holidays, withdrawals from
national savings are approach-
ing their peak. Another cause
for satisfaction is that few
bonds are being redeemed —-
only about one per cent,
of the total in force (nearly
£75,000,000).
Now that the initial waiting
period of six months is over,
the draws will occur monthly,
but, of course, the prizemoney
will be considerably less than
the £970,000 (representing
interest at 2 p.c.) available on
June 1.
It remains to be seen
whether the monthly distribu-
tion will continue to attract
new savers, but there is little
doubt that the long-odds chance
of a tax-free £lOOO out of the
blue —or even one of the
smaller prizes, minimum £2s—
incentive both to the habitual
investor and the normally
thriftless. To enrol the latter
in the savings movement, and
to keep his name on the books,
is no light achievement.
People’s Theatre
After the visit of the Brecht
Berliner Ensemble last year it
was natural that the Theater
am Kurfurstendamm would
follow sooner or later. The
short season, now ended,
at Sadler’s Wells, was interest-
ing, if only because the two
companies (both from Berlin
but from opposite sides of the
Iron Curtain) are so dissimilar
—and this, despite the fact that
Brecht’s daughter Hanne Hiob,
and his former designer, Caspar
Neher, are both with the
Kurfurstendamm company, the
latter as joint-director.
To compare the two is like
trying to compare talent with
brains. Besides political convicr
tion and, no doubt, brains,
Brecht had talent, which he
communicated to his players.
The result was idiosyncratic but
powerful. Neher and his co-
director, Oscar Schuh, may also
have talent, but their produc-
tions are so brainy as to be
quite dazzling—rather as if the
result was the outcome of
mathematical programming.
Not here the eccentricity or
uniqueness which one asso-
ciates with the arts. Every
movement, gesture and intona-
tion seems to have been worked
out beforehand, the actors’ own
personalities being submerged
into the director’s brain-
product. This is not to belittle
the effect or to decry the act-
ing: the one is sure and the
other is competent, if inflexible
and, to English-speaking audi-
ences, over-mannered.
The two Georg Buchner
plays seen, “Leonce and Lena”
and “Wozzeck,” were well
contrasted. Of these, the first,
an adult fairy-tale, was given a
tongue-in-cheek performance to
which the only drawback, a
failure to understand the finer
points of language, can hardly
be ascribed to the players. The
other play was surprisingly
(after Alban Berg’s opera)
moving, especially the sharp
characterisation and Bruno
Dallansky’s oafish but not
creepingly-morbid Wozzeck.
But the real interest lay in
the staging (“Wozzeck” had 18
scenes). The scenery is sym-
bolic, cranky and most in-
genious, the actors doing their
own scene-shifting, but the skill
in manipulating it and in the
use of the lighting is consum-
mate.
A final conclusion is simply
that theatrical styles on the two
sides of the Spree are poles
apart—-unless the reaction to
such high-sounding pronounce-
ments as Schuh’s “All forces
must be so mobilised that we
may arrive at a new spiritual
interpretation of both old and
new works through modern
psychological knowledge itself”
leads to an aesthetic rebellion of
heart against head.


Freedom is
a Rainlow
By
STEPHEN KELEN
PAULA sat up in bed,
and covered her ears
with her hands.
Lovas said “I’ll see
who it is. Look after Tamas.”
Paula nodded. She was
fighting hysteria.
“Get up, get up right now,
and help your son,” Lovas
insisted, hoping to calm Paula's
nerves.
Paula, with a great effort,
took her hands away from her
head, got out of bed, put on
her kimono, and went in the
lounge. Lovas hurried to the
door.
Maria and Judit stood on
the threshold. Maria was in
her slacks again, and she had
her “guitar.” The girl was
sobbing quietly.
“The Russians have started
a full-scale offensive against
Budapest,” Maria said.
The three adults rushed out
in the garden. From the hill-
top they looked down on the
city, still in darkness, lit-up
by gun-flashes from all direc-
tions. From what appeared to
be a complete circle the
Russians were bombarding the
sleeping city, pouring their
murderous fire from the
factory districts of Buda, from
near the island of Csepel and
the outskirts of Pest. Fires
had broken out in many places.
“Perhaps there’s more on the
radio.”
Lovas looked at his watch ;
it was 4.20 a.m. on November
4, 1956. Tamas and Judit were
sitting on the sofa’s edge,
huddled together, trembling
and crying quietly. Lovas
tuned the receiver to Radio
Budapest. Prime Minister
Nagy was speaking:
“This morning the Soviet
Army commenced attacking
Budapest to destroy our
democracy. The fight is in
progress. The Government
will remain in office. I want
to tell this to the nation, and
appeal to the rest of the world.”
Lovas switched - off the
radio so abruptly the children
stopped sobbing, and looked
at him in bewilderment. In the
silence the gunfire sounded
like so many exclamation-
marks. He felt the eyes of the
women and children searching
his face: “What do you intend
to do with us?” the eyes asked.
He couldn’t answer. He twisted
the radio on to short-wave.
He realised his utter foolish-
ness in seeking information
from a radio-station hundreds
of miles away when he had
heard Nagy and seen the gun-
flashes. He shook his head,
and smiled despairingly.
“It’s no longer a question,”
he turned to the women, “of
what we feel like believing, but
what is the truth.”
The loudspeaker crackled
and screamed static, but he
didn’t have the power to turn
it off. He yearned to hear a
reassuring voice, perhaps a
word of encouragement,
promise. As he turned the dial
the static cleared ; a cultured
and impersonal voice was talk-
ing about —Suez.
“Are you just going to stand
there and play with your
radio?” Maria demanded.
Lovas obediently turned-off
the radio.
The children were sobbing
again.
“We’d better pack some food
and take the children to the
air-raid shelter,” Paula said.
She went into the kitchen, and
returned a few minutes later
with a briefcase of pro-
visions. “You two better get
dressed as warmly as you can ;
and stop crying,” she said to
the children.
“You coming with me, or
do you prefer to go into the
cellar?” Maria impatiently
challenged her brother.
“D USSIANS again poured into
Budapest. Their sheer
numbers and firing-power made
open resistance impossible. The
impregnable barricades became
flimsy, ineffective constructions.
The onslaught found Lovas
at a minor centre of resistance.
The freedom-fighters were
retreating, leaving the barri-
cade, built from the stones of
their homes. Rain poured
steadily. Numb with despair,
they were a silent, grim lot.
“What next?” Lovas won-
dered, and knew that the
This is the fifth and final
instalment of Stephen Kelen’s
tensely dramatic novel of
the Hungarian revolt, last
October-November
others were silently asking the
same question. There seemed
to be no answer.
He remembered the few free
days of his city; the feeling
of freedom no horror or
atrocity could suppress. Life
had had wings then. The world
was a bright, wide place,
narrowed down again to its
former limits of abject slavery.
Lovas watched the ill-clad
men, women and children leav-
ing their barricades, and his
eyes stopped on a young
student. The youth wore a
motley of rags ; Army trousers,
a thin coat; he had a half-burnt
blanket thrown over his
shoulders as a protection
against the cold and persistent
rain. He was no different from
the others except for his hat,
an expensive summer hat of
the latest fashion. He probably
had saved for months to get
those 130 florins together, half-
a-week’s wages.
“Poor boy; bought the hat
to impress his girl-friend or to
boost his ego,” Lovas thought.
hat for special occasions,
as these days of great hopes
and final disappointment turned
out to be.”
That gay, dilapidated hat,
which had lost its shape and
was anyway out-of-season, in
Lovas’s eyes became the symbol
of their futile struggle and
terrible sacrifice.
Then, tlfbugh he was quite
unable to explain the reason for
it, the face of the old man at
the Margaret-avenue road-
block, where he first accepted
arms, and his responsibility to
side with the freedom-fighters,
came into his mind, and he
could clearly hear him reciting
the sad and wonderful words
of Lajos Kossuth.
Some of the freedom-fighters
dispersed, others remained
together. The young student
with the gay hat said to no
one in particular, “We’re going
to die, that’s for sure. But
we’re leaving a lesson behind
no other nation ever taught the
world. One day our sacrifice
will make sense. Now it’s just
a hopeless struggle.”
Lovas thought him flamboy-
ant. “You’re talking big in
cliches and slogans,” he wanted
to say. Yet the young man’s
patriotism affected him as it
did the others ; he wanted to
fight on.
The streets quickly emptied.
The population sought shelter
in the cellars. The Russians
were shelling the city with
phosphorus-bombs.
Hundreds of tanks and
armored-cars flooded through
the streets. The soldiers,


students and workers defending
the Kilian-Gyorgy Barracks
beat back waves of Russian
attacks. First Lovas’s small
group wanted to make their
way there. But the Russians
already had control of the
district, and to approach the
barracks was plain suicide.
“How about Hay-square?”
Lovas suggested, remembering
his “second home,” as a point
of further resistance.
A twisted mess of steel,
stones and bodies was all that
remained of the Hay-square
barricade. The surrounding
houses were burnt-out shells,
but still sheltered people in
their cellars. Soviet tanks and
armored-cars hemmed the
place in.
The freedom - fighters
shrugged and dispersed as best
they could. Lovas knew the
full verdict of defeat.
“I'm going home,” he said
to Maria.
“Yes,” Maria agreed sadly,
“there’s nothing eise we can
do.”
T>AULA sat on the bunk of
the air-raid-shelter and
smiled timidly when Lovas and
Maria entered. Tamas and
Judit were playing chess, so
lost in concentration that they
hardly noticed their parents’
arrival.
Lovas knew it was utter
despair that smiled on Paula’s
lips in this strange fashion. He
embraced her.
“W hat’s the matter,
darling?”
Paula still smiled.
“They know everything
about you and Maria,” she
said. “While you were out a
few ladies paid us a visit. They
came down here, and made me
go upstairs with them. I had
to open Maria’s flat as well as
ours. They had a good look
around. ‘Ah,’ one of the ladies
said, ‘I hope you are going to
have enough sense to clear out
of here before we report your
husband’s activities to the
proper authorities.’ Her com-
panion butted-in: ‘I can’t
understand why the Govern-
ment allows Fascist scum, such
as your husband and sister-in-
law are, to enjoy such luxurious
apartments. You’d better
move, my dear’ —; Then they
left, and I came down here
again”
While Paula spoke, Lovas
made his decision.
“Perhaps this is our last
chance to escape. I don’t want
to live in constant fear of con-
centration-camps or Siberia.
Do you want to come? I’m not
forcing a decision, not even on
you, Paula. But if you come,
I’ll take the responsibility.”
Paula nodded.
Maria said, “My poor, good
brother, you are willing to take
the responsibility. What do
you mean by that? One man
with a gun can mow us all
down at his leisure. We all
took the responsibility of the
revolution on ourselves, and
now we have to pay the price
one way or another. Oh, I’m
not accusing you, nor do I think
you a coward”
“You can afford to be bitter,
because Albert died,” Paula
said quietly. “Forgive me for
saying that; I don’t mean to
hurt you. For a long time I
wanted to do what Gyula sug-
gests now, but I was
afraid” —-—
“You don’t offend me,”
Maria said, “and I don’t mean
to hurt you. -Perhaps you’re
right. Albert might have
thought it better to survive in
another country than die in
Hungary. And there’s a favor
1 want to ask you both ; could
you take Judit with you?”
C<o now the problem was how
to get out. While Paula
filled her briefcase with more
provisions, Lovas stood in the
garden, listening, straining his
eyes, trying to find a gap in the
enemy’s steel ring.
It was an extremely naive
way to plan an escape, but how
;dse could he go about it?
Tamas watched his father
seriously ; Judit thought it was
a game, and imitated Lovas.
The girl’s antics amused the
boy, who suddenly burst out
laughing. Lovas couldn’t help
smiling. He made another
round, in the opposite direction,
and now Tamas, too, joined in
the game.
“Just as I thought,” Lovas
concluded. “The Russians have
left open the approaches to
Buda through Cool Valley.”
Cool Valley was one of the
popular picnic-grounds. The
hilly country, with its narrow
and steep roads, lent itself
badly to mechanised military
operations. Lovas had spent
many happy outings there as a
child and knew the terrain well.
Paula came out of the villa,
carrying the briefcase.
“It’s better that I stay
behind,” Maria said. “Five
might draw attention, where
four wouldn’t. Goodbye, Judit.
Wherever you go, whatever you
do, from now on Uncle Gyula
is your father, and Aunt Paula
your mother, till I come to
claim you again.” She began
to cry. “I’m sorry,” she said
to Paula. “I didn’t want to
make a scene. I’d better go
inside. I’ll pack and clear out.
(Continued on page 56)


The Blown and the Mind-reader
By JUDITH WRIGHT
THOSE were the days,
the golden holidays of
Christmas. The brown,
shrill - voiced children
groped and fished in the head-
land’s rocky pools, or ran
from waves on the beach:
beautiful, ugly and ordinary
people wore bright clothes
and fringed straw-hats and
lay under target-gay umbrellas
on the sand. The narrow sea-
side streets were littered with
silver - paper, ice - cream
buckets, cigarette-packets and
newspapers and bottles, but
under that sun the litter
looked like a Christmas
decoration.
In the rows of tents and
caravans children danced and
squabbled, parents played
cards, girls smoothed-on sun-
tan-oil. The kiosk-counter was
lined all day with youths and
children spending their money
on colored drinks. In the play-
ground the swings arched up
high into the sky, the merry-
go-round circled, and the
climbing-chains jingled with
hanging boys. So many chil-
dren there were, the noise was
like the noise of aviaries.
In the evenings, the crowd
straggled back from the
beaches, from fishing or sight-
seeing; the lights slung on tall
green-painted steel posts came
on, and the tent town began
to glow. When darkness was
established, the first trickle
of lovers, children and groups
of boys and girls began to
come from the camps and
gather at the entrance to
Headland Park.
It was then that the owner
of the roundabout furled up
the canvas that covered it by
day and primed his little
snorting engine. He had the
pitch on one side of the park-
gateway; on the other side
stood a caravan and a square
mysterious dark - red tent,
painted with oily orange
flames and a blue crystal-ball.
The lettering over the doorway
said: MA DA ME AST REA,
MIND-READER.
IVTOW the caravan - light
dimmed and there was a
movement in the red tent. The
lovers stood entwined to look;
a pressure-lamp began to purr
and the tent glowed like an
ember.
Into the square of light
before the tent the clown came
running. He was dressed in
aged black-and-white, a torn
dress-suit and a pointed hat of
whitewashed cardboard with
a black pom-pom on each
side. He threw down an old
piece of carpet on the worn
grass; above him the blue
mercury-lamp at the gateway
swayed in a moving curtain of
leaves.
From all sides there were
cries and calls; children came
running and dancing, holding
hands, pushing up to the rope
that surrounded the entrance
to the tent. The roundabout’s
cracked gramophone had
begun to play and the horses
blew out their nostrils in the
light. But most of the children
wanted to watch the clown.
For there never was such an
agile, white-faced, red-nosed
man as this. Watch him there,
spinning over and back again,
Catherine - wheeling incred-
ibly, walking on his hands,
twisting his legs to the back
of his neck and somersaulting
like a crazy toy. His red-and-
white grin spread wider and
wider for the children, as they
crowded closer; he bounced
towards them like a ball, and
laughing as they scattered in
fright he untied the knots of
legs and arms and jumped up,
a human being again. Then
he began to dance, the dance
of a marionette, a puppet
pulled by invisible strings.
At first the dance was slow
and sad. The strings pulled
here an arm and there a leg,
the head hung down and the
limp, sawdust - filled body
swayed from side to side. You
could have sworn this was a
toy and not a man. Now the
crowd had grown; children
and men and women pressed
against the ropes to stare as
the dance grew faster. The
poor wooden legs and arms
flickered into jerky move-
ment; the doll-clown danced
in obedient glee. His head
jerked up to stare at the
audience, at first solemn and
despairing, red mouth droop-
ing to one side, sad black
devil-eyebrows scowling.
Then suddenly the strings
pulled the red mouth sideways
into a split-wide grin of crazy
joy; he spun and danced more
and more madly until you
would have thought those
wooden limbs would fall off
with sheer speed. The chil-
dren shouted and the doll-
down too began to laugh on
a high mad note, a whizzing
automaton powered by sheer
delight of movement.
Coins spun into the circle,
rolled on the carpet; the
jerking puppet gathered them
up in the whirl of his dance,
juggled them in the air, threw
them high, slipped them jing-
ling into the huge pockets of
the dress-suit. How the chil-
dren laughed!
Then inside the darkly-
glowing tent a shadow
appeared. Instantly the dance
slowed, the clown - head
dropped with chin on chest,
the strings twisted less and less
until, with a final feverish
kick and flourish, they were
dropped altogether, and,
folding like a jointed toy, the
puppet fell, a neat useless pile
of black-and-white, to the
carpet.
The carpet rolled itself
magically around him, hid
him and rolled away; the
space before the tent was bare.
“Ah, ah!” cried the children
on a mourning note. Madame
Astrea, Mind-reader, glowed
in red letters above the tent’s
curtained entrance.
TT was a challenge, that red
1 tent. The lovers stood look-
ing at it, uneasily; the married
couples nudged each other;
the children slipped away to
the roundabout or down to
the kiosk in its ring of light.
But sometimes a couple, or a
girl alone, walked through the
gap in the ropes and slipped
guiltily inside.
There sat Madame Astrea,
huge, dark and turbaned,
with her glass ball and her
green baize table. They
listened awed and giggling to
her hypnotic, angry muttering,
foretelling easy ordinary lives,
simple calamities, the usual
dole of - love and death and
strangers. It was her sunken,
furious eyes that confirmed
their curious unhappiness.
“Where did the clown go?”
asked the children, hushed and
fearful. “Does she lock him in
a box?”
“But, darling,” said the
mothers, “you know him quite
well, poor Mr. Brack; why,
you saw him in the park this
morning. O f course she
doesn’t lock him in a box.”
But the children were not
convinced. Mr. Brack and the
clown were not the same; Mr.
Brack who drooped his
shoulders and fetched and
carried and cleared up around
the camps all day, and that
wild agile red-lipped laughing
clown juggling in the mys-
terious blue light? No ; she
kept him locked in a box
somewhere. And even the
parents and the lovers, watch-
ing that rapid rolling-up of
the piece of carpet and the
way it vanished into the dark
behind the tent, felt a cold
shiver, something left over
from the days of witches.
For even in the day-time
Madame Astrea, imperfectly
transformed into Mrs. Brack,
might have been a witch. She
seemed to carry the atmos-
phere of the red tent with her,
even as she shook out the
blankets from the caravan-
door or stood at the butcher’s
counter with her black leather
bag. Her heavily muscular
lurching walk, her muttering
voice, her eyes, upset the
women of the holiday-tents,
and they could not help
remembering with shame and a
sort of fear the questions they
had asked Madame Astrea
over that green baize table,
and the answers she had
given.
“She’s a bit queer, that
woman,” they said to each
other.
Had they given themselves
away? Might she really have
guessed their secrets, read
their thoughts? They found
themselves reckoning over this
and that sin, even thinking
nervously of blackmail.
So after a little while only
the lovers now slipped into the
red tent, smiling blindly at
each other, oblivious of the
past and certain of the future.
Sometimes Madame Astrea sat
for a long time staring alone at
the crystal or towards the
opposite wall.
/CHRISTMAS was over ; New
Year weekend had begun.
The crowds, thinned a little
over the week-days, were
back again.
Tonight was the big cele-
bration, with dancing on the


headland and Logart Druey’s
Band from the coastal town,
coming for the night. The
shopkeepers fairly ran behind
the counters, serving out
grocery-orders, soft drinks,
bright-colored sweets, ice-
cream bars and chocolate-
malteds. Children in shorts
and sandals and sundresses
swarmed everywhere; men
squatted on the pub verandas;
women walked, in chattering
groups up and down the
narrow streets.
Mr. Brack moved round the
park, round the camping-
ground, among the rows of
tents and caravans, spiking
papers on an iron-tipped stick.
The beach was crowded, the
pools below the headland sent
up a thin continuous seagull
shriek of children.
Sylvie came walking down
the back pathway behind the
tents that led to the headland
and the rock-pools. Quiet,
small and frightened, she
walked alone and her flow-
ered-cotton frock hung on her
bony, brown shoulders. Mr.
Brack dropped his stick and
caught her hand.
“Sylvie,” he whispered as
she tried to pull away. “Oh,
Sylvie.”
“I’m afraid,” she mur-
mured.
“Sylvie, it’s the New Year.
You promised. Come tonight.
It’s the right time, Sylvie. To-
morrow we’ll be . .
“Where is she?”
“Asleep.”
A pair of lovers walked
blindly by.
“Oh, Sylvie. Don’t b e
afraid. Think of tomorrow
For a moment she stood
there with him, leaving her
hand still.
“All right. Tonight.”
Mr. Brack smiled. When
he did that he looked like the
clown wearing his grin of
crazy joy.
“We can slip away quite
easy, Sylvie. While she’s in
there. It’s a wonderful chance.
There’ll be a crowd; in such
a crowd it’ll be easy, Sylvie.
We’ll hitch a ride; we’ll get
away from here. We’ll never
see her again. Tonight,
Sylvie.”
She whispered something
that he did not hear, nodded
and pulled away her hand.
“No more. She’ll find out,
else.” She turned and ran
down the path, away from
the Headland Park.
Mr. Brack picked up his
stick, thrust it through a news-
paper and went on, hiding his
face with chin on chest.
ALL day the cars came in
and the people flooded
out of them, down to the
beach. The roundabout was
working, but the red tent
remained closed. Madame
Astrea’s caravan was quiet as
the web of a spider.
Around the park, around
the camps, Mr. Brack gath-
ered up his scraps and papers,
looking now and then at the
caravan as if in fear, but not
returning there. Nobody
noticed him; poor Mr. Brack.
Evening was coming. The
children straggled up from
beach and pool; lights began
to go up in the houses, in the
tents. The street-lights came
on. Groups of shouting boys
strayed everywhere; the
crowds clotted thicker. In the
Headland Park, lovers began
to wander. The evening meal
was over.
Now the dancing-floor on
the headland lighted up, the
band began to tune its instru-
ments. Winds from the sea
rocked the trees. Quietly Mr.
Brack rose from his seat
behind the caravan, and fear-
fully he tiptoed in. It was time
to dress, time to become a
clown.
The children began to gather
at the rope fence. The lamp in
the tent began purring and
the tent glowed redder and
redder in the moving shadows.
Out ran the clown with his
piece of carpet, threw it down
and began his somersaulting.
Surely, thought the children,
the clown must have been
wound up like a toy, wound up
tighter than ever before ; never
had he looked so lean, so
tattered, yet never had his
catherine-wheels spun faster,
had he leapt higher in the air,
walked on his hands more
nimbly, twisted his arms and
legs in stranger shapes. His
scarlet, desperate grin fascin-
ated the crowd ; more and more
of them stood at the ropes,
pushing and staring, a multi-
tude of eyes.
Now at last, springing from
the most complicated knot of
all, he stood upright and
human, then leapt high in the
air, juggling the night’s catch
of coins. As he came to the
carpet again, he was the
marionette, hung from his
strings with arms and legs
turned and poised ready to
begin his dance with chin
on chest.
Over and under the shoulders
of the crowd Sylvie's head
came peering, unwilling and
solemn with large deep-
sunken eyes. The clown
twitched slowly into life,
danced now a little faster, the
strings pulling him now on to
his heels, now to his toes,
grotesquely sagging. Now they
jerked up his head with its
melancholy side-slung mouth
and staring eyes of horror.
They stared at Sylvie; his
hands rose and gestured
silently, desperately.
“Away, away,” they gestured
more and more violently.
“Danger, danger!”
But Sylvie clung to the rope
of the fence, staring.
The strings pulled the
puppet violently, epileptically,
faster and faster. Round and
round he spun with frightened
eyes, his hands 1 witching at
their jointed wrists. “Away,
away! ” At last the frantic
strings jerked him high into
the air in a final leap, and let
him go. Down tumbled the
puppet into his carpet; the
carpet hid him and rolled him
quickly into the darkness.
There stood Madame Astrea
at her crimson-glowing door-
way ; a spider emerged.
1
on the headland the
band played ; over the road
the roundabout gramophone
poured out its cracked brassy
music; but Madame's voice
was easily heard.
“New Year’s Eve,” she cried,
“and the first lpcky girl to
come in will have a free read-
ing—a free reading. One girl
only please.”
Her eyes fastened on Sylvie
edging away from the ropes.
“You—yes, you, the girl in
green. A free reading to the
lucky girl. Green’s an unlucky
color, they say—l’ll prove
they’re wrong. Come up, my
girl; don’t be shy. I see a man
for you. Come in and hear
all about him.”
The crowd shouted with
laughter, pushing Sylvie to the
entrance of the tent. She
stumbled in like a leaf blown
by the sea-wind. The crowd
shouted after her, laughing and
drifting on into the park, to the
{Continued on page 41)
“Hed do anything to be different ."


The Leaking Roof
By "EK DUM”
READING the morning paper one
might feel that the international air
was much clearer. Khrushchev has
thrown-out the dastards who desired
Russia to adopt an aggressive policy—
including the cherubic fat-boy Malenkov,
whom Khrushchev himself chose to send
to England a few months ago as an angel
of peace and whose shy and chubby grin
was the light of every peace-loving press-
photographer from Stornaway to the
Antarctic.
Mao is allowing British ships to bring
him goods into Shanghai—if our ally in
the United Nations, Chiang Kai-shek,
doesn’t sink the ships en route, Nasser
wants to open his arms to Britain and
France. Having “revealed,” via a spokes-
man, a few days ago, that he had an
assurance that the United States would
have waded in to save him if the British
and French had continued their attack
on Egypt, he has now charmed everybody
with an assurance that he is fairly break-
ing his neck to make friends with France
and Britain and that all that is needed to
assure peace in the Middle East is that the
Americans should cease their pressures on
Egypt.
Evatt’s Meanderings
A little while ago exulting in Soviet
help, he is now insistent that the Red
submarines which have come into his
vicinity have nothing to do with him.
He hasn’t abused Israel for days, and
there apparently hasn’t been a commando
raid for a week. But perhaps that has
been because Dr. Evatt has been wander-
ing round the area, like a ship without a
rudder and with no Molotov to consult,
saying all the things that are the opposites
of the things he was shouting a few
months ago in support of Soviet Middle
East policy. He has even been visiting
Ben-Gurion, whom last year the Kremlin
was subjecting to savage direct scoldings
as an “aggressor” and vicious threats,
and talking very much like Ben-Gurion
himself about the rights of Israel to free
trade through the Gulf of Akaba.
The Eisenhower doctrine has been
operating in the Middle East and the
Mediterranean to the jingle of pieces of
silver which can be heard from Saud to
Spain, which at the end of the month got
another £lO million, making about £35
million and £l5O million for the fiscal
year—under agreements w'hich allow the
establishment of military and naval bases,
and an oil-pipeline along with some
publicity aid from certain sections of
the American press which cannot see the
need for the British to stay holed-up in
colonialism in Gibraltar, when Uncle
Sam is prepared to supply Spain with all
the military colonialism it cares to
support.
Jordan, at the other end of the
Mediterranean axis, the country that
never, never was going to take aid
from any foreign Power any more, has
just received another £3,570,000 sterling
for military equipment from Washington
and is to have another grant of economic
aid “without conditions,” bringing the
total of American dollars which has been
poured into Amman in two months to
£10,700,000 sterling, which is big money
for Jordan.
Soviet in Syria and Egypt
All, obviously, is sunshine in the
great and independent Hashemite king-
dom—our equal in the U.N. Assembly—
as it is in some other places where the
oil flows. But behind the peaceful haze
which obscures the cracks in the political
structure of the Middle East, due to the
strains imposed by the withdrawal of
British and French influence and the con-
solidation of Nasser’s power, there is
imminent danger.
The Soviet Union is consolidating in
both Egypt and Syria, and the position
across the whole sweep of southern Asia
is one of instability which needs watch-
ing. Russia announced a few days ago
the building of a nuclear-power station
in Egypt about which the outside world
has no knowledge ; and while rebels burn
and slay in Algeria, the Egyptian official
newspaper “El Ahram” a week ago
stated that the Algerian rebel leaders had
arrived in Cairo “to discuss military and
" political questions”—something which
proved true.
For the rest, there is no country from
Suez to lndo-China which can be said
to sit on a solid foundation of economic
solvency and stable government save
those guaranteed by somebody else.
True, the little desert kingdoms of the
Arabs live in a shower of gold coming
in on top of a huge fall of oil pouring
out. But the ones that really can be
called nations are under shadow of the
looming threat of Communism and under
the economic temptations offered by the
Kremlin and obsessed with the fears of
colonialism fostered by the U.S. and
Russian press w'hich resulted in kfieir
plunges into self-government before they
were able to support themselves.
The Turks and Pakistan
None of the Arabian countries, or Trak
or Persia, could live without subsidy
from somewhere in some form or
another. The Turks survive by grim self-
denial and an austerity and will to work
amazing to contemplate. Pakistan has
serious economic troubles, the less since
it has kept at least some of its genuine
links with the United Kingdom. It also
is daily threatened from both the Soviet
Union and Afghanistan in the north and
those who should be its allies in India in
the East, where no day passes without
some reference to Pakistani “aggression.”
Pakistan is showing a creditable desire
to stand on its own feet —it has just
agreed to pay back its share of the U.S.
loan of silver —lend-lease—made to
undivided India when Uncle Sam was
working hard for Indian “independence,”
and is handing over its first instalments.
Ceylon, plagued by the civil disobedi-
ence of the Tamils, has been plunged
in a row in which, in the Government
caucus, the Ceylonese Ambassador to the
U.S. and U.N. was savagely attacked for
having signed the U.N. report on the
facts about the Hungarian revolt. He is
in danger of being liquidated in his
position by Bandaranaike, a sacrifice to
the Kremlin.
Peripatetic Nehru
Nehru has still been wandering the
earth, while Kashmir, whose problems of
government he says are settled, has been
the venue of several bomb-outrages. The
economy of India is beginning to slide
more quickly towards the cliff-edge.
The Indian Government has been com-
pelled to decree drastic cuts in imports.
No finished goods are to be imported for
three months, licences for raw materials
will be issued only under strict scrutiny,
and capital goods will continue to be
imported under deferred - payment
arrangements only. Drastic orders against
hoarding have been imposed, and stocks
of essential industrial metals must be
declared. All facilities whatever for
foreign-exchange remittances abroad have
been withdrawn —even the £2-a-day limit
on sterling postal-orders has been stopped.
Indonesia now seems to have a policy
of compromise with the Communists.
And in Singapore the People’s Action
(Communist) Party won one by-election
out of two at the end of June, and the
Liberal-Socialists the other —both from
the Government's Labor Front. In each
case the victor was a Chinese. And the
Chinese leader of the Labor Front has
arrived from Europe to find his party in
a bad way, *the , docks partly paralysed
with go-slow strikes, a cunning Chinese
Communist campaign making successful
progress with tasks of setting Malays
and Chinese at each other’s throats and
undermining the Malayan dollar by in-
dustrial and commercial disturbance. So
much for the “Malayan” nationalism of
Singapore.
That the Peking Government is
heartened by these events is shown by its
new Budget. It has reduced expenditure,
laid the main emphasis on the develop-
ment of heavy war-industry, cut defence
about 10 per cent, while leaving it at 19
per cent, of the total, and made a rise of
more than 25 per cent, for “aid to foreign
countries” —which means for subversion
in lndo-China and Malaya and free trips
for Australian soft-shells. It is finding
this sort of thing a paying proposition.
Every day the need to consolidate the
British Commonwealth both in economy
and defence is clearer. Australia in par-
ticular lives under a leaky South-east
Asian roof through which Communism
is pouring.


SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Tops in Polo
Cornered (which their opposi-
tion at Warwick Farm found
difficult), sketched and arrayed
below by Prior, the Cudal polo-
team —left to right: David
Loneragan, Brydone Macfar-
lane, John Loneragan and
Laurie Morgan (capt.)—as they
filed into The Bulletin office
the day after their triumph in
the Countess of Dudley Cup.
The Countess of Dudley Cup is an
important event, more particularly
to those N.S.W. enthusiasts affected
by what, in a caption (from a verse
by H. C. Bentley) to a polo scene,
a Bulletin treasure that adorns the
writer’s office-wall, is described as
“The daring turn and the skilful
stroke, The ever-quickening stride,
The ring of the stirrup, the clash
of the stick, And the rush of the
furious ride. . .”
Twelve teams from all over
N.S.W. took part in this, the 28th
carnival, staged (second time there)
at Warwick Farm, close by the race-
course. Play, begun on Thursday
(July 4) and decided in a final
between Cudal and Willow Tree on
the following Sunday, was torrid,
spectacular. In the final, with the
score at six-all at the end of the
sixth chukka, an extra chukka was
played and Cudal goaled first for
victory. The amazing aspect of
their success was the fact that before
the carnival the Cudal side had never
ridden together as a team.
Mounted, on the field, a force
to be reckoned with, the four team-
members proved to be just as
impressionable a quartet in a far-
from - the - open - spaces Bulletin
office. Laurie Morgan (he plays No.
2 in the side) hails from
Brotherony. Condobolin, and has
been playing polo since 1948. He
has an exact expression and an
English air that was not betrayed
by his duffel-coat, tartan waistcoat
and cao.
Brothers John and David Loner-
agan have a youthful, accomplished
men-of-the-land casualness —David,
fair, the more reserved; John, tall
and dark. David (No. 3; Wood-
lands, Pyramul) began playing
polo in 1945; John (No. 4; same
address) has played since 1947. Most
of their polo has been with the
Mudgee club.
Brydone Macfarlane (“Don’t for-
get : he’s a rabbit-trapper”—the
only crack at his expense against at
least a dozen the other way in a
quarter-hour) is the inevitable live-
wire of the side; and for sparking-
off mirth they don’t come much
more capable. Macfarlane (No. 1)
belongs to Eurella, Cudal, and
has been playing polo since 1947
with the Cudal club.
“Tell them about Gold Ross,”
they prompted Morgan, and he
told. Morgan bought Gold Ross —
a bay steed well-known in polo and
other circles —as an eight-year-old
ex-racehorse (a winner at Randwick
and a winner of a Newcastle Cup);
that was February, 1952. In June
that year he won the Novice Pony
award at the Maitland Dudley Cup
carnival. Next year he was tried,
successfully, in jumping- and dress-
age-events. In 1955 Morgan took
him to England to compete in the
International Horse Trials at
Windsor, in which he finished fourth.
After the trials he won several one-
day events, and was then third in
the 1956 Badminton Trials. Return-
ing to Australia two weeks before
the 1957 Sydney Royal, he competed
with success there, winning, notably,
the C. V. Pope Cup. Morgan rode
him in the Warwick Farm carnival.
On one occasion—and his owner
rates this his best performance —he
won a one-day event at Cheshire on
the Saturday, after which Morgan
decided to give him a run in the
polo-carnival at Windsor on the
following Monday (the last tiifie he’d
sighted a polo-ball was two years
previously in Australia). “In the
carnival,” said Morgan, “he played
two chukkas magnificently, and
everyone was amazed —particularly
the Queen: she was pop-eyed!”
* * *
Fight in the Rain
Present-day boxing spec-
tators and the pugs them-
selves —have it easy. Turn the
clock back to the night of
March 4, 1907. Raining like
seeded clouds. The old cable-
trams en route to the Richmond
racecourse packed with pugs,
ex-pugs, trainers and fight-
fans.
The big moment: Jack
Johnson in one corner, Bill
Lang in the other ; 20 three-
minute rounds. Still raining ;
ring awash ; the fighters’ feet
sending up clouds of spray.
Johnson, superb figure of a
boxer, staged the defensive
against the rushing Lang, giving
the soaked crowd a swim for its
money.
Argument with police-
inspector. Bill Squires would
knock the block off the big
black, he said. “Never! You’re
looking at the future world
champ,” I bit back. “Betcha!”
“You’re on —a quid!” (Bill
never met Johnson.) Lang gave
up in the ninth round—and
time, too: he couldn’t land a
worth-while punch.
Next day, interview with
Johnson. What did he
think of Lang? “Suah is
a game boy. In the States that
boy could have been a cham-
peen; he would have been
brought along right. That boy
suah is muscle-tight; made
him tired. You gotta relax
them old muscles to see a fight
out. You hits faster and
harder.”
Commonsense from gold-
capped mouth of the coming
world heavyweight-champion.
A tense fighter is never a shock
puncher.
Tim.
The Horses
Could it be just coincidence
that the Doomben Cup winner,
Prince Delville, and the last
Melbourne Cup winner, Even-
ing Peal, are both Delville
Wood (imp.), N.S.W.-bred
horses?
In winning the £lO,OOO
B.A.T.C. Doomben Cup—a
record field of 25 started —
Prince Delville bumped his
earnings to £29,361. He has
now competed in 55 races for
eight wins, 11 seconds, and
nine thirds, his best previous
win the A.J.C. Derby. Selected
by this page, Prince Delville
defeated Farquhar and Bay-
stone in a photo-finish for all
places; Shahwan, a close
fourth, earned himself £3OO.
George Moore, who has the
1956-57 Sydney jockeys’
premiership in his keeping
(79 firsts till last Saturday),
will hold the honor for the
first time. His total is a post-
war record, the previous best
Sellwood’s 77} in 1953-54.
Sellwood will weigh-in second
this season. Trainer T. J.
Smith also established a post-
war record when Landy’s win
at Warwick Farm brought his
season’s total to 59. Smith
headed the list last season with
58.
Leading Randwick trainer
T. J. Smith and his No. 1
jockey G. Moore added one
more win to their imposing
tally when Landy trotted away
with the Warwick Farm
George’s River Handicap.
Landy toyed with his
opponents to win by three
lengths in time that was fast
for a holding track. The win
was Landy’s first for about 13
months: the gelding went
amiss after winning the More-
ton Handicap in Brisbane last
June, and had to be spelled
for about nine months. If he
stands up to a tough prepara-
tion, Landy should be there-
abouts in the important handi-
caps this spring.
Estrina’s trainer, John
Norman, has visions of the
V.R.C. Oaks and other- three-
year-old races for his filly,
whose performance in winning
the Warwick Farm Juvenile
Novice indicated staying
potential for the coming
season. Half-way through the
race she was laboring on the
rails with horses all round her ;
but her heady coachman, G.
Moore, brought the filly from
the rails to the outside of the
field in time for a final dash
and a stylish win. Estrina is
by Channel Swell (imp.), sire
of several stayers, from
Revenir, a sprint winner on
Sydney tracks. She traces to
Positano (imp.), and her
. relatives include three Mel-
bourne Cup winners—Rain-
bird, Lord Nolan and Lord
Cardigan. Revenir is by Mac-
Arthur from Lapsjm by Spear-
head (imp.).
The Bob Cherry (imp.)
progeny, though yet to set the
world on fire, so far haven’t
had many chances. The few
.that have sported silk have
shown promising form and
include a few winners, the latest
the Brisbane-trained Wild
Cherry, winner of the two-year-
old Handicap at the Doom ben
Cup meeting. Having been
second in seven races from 13
starts, the colt was due for a
win. Sydney jockey J. Thomp-
son had the mount and broke
his run of outs. Wild Cherry’s
dam, Salinga, is by Agincourt
(imp.) from Lady Silvius by
Silvius (imp.), and so the colt


—he cost TOOgns. at the Rand-
wick yearling sales —is related
to Tregilla, a winner of the
A.J.C. Derby,
Forest Stream —brother of
the 1951 Q.T.C. Derby winner
Forest Beau, and raced also by
E. R. Williams —was backed
from 10 to 1 to equal favoritism
for the WarwicK Farm two-
year-old Novice, missed a
place, but showed a lot of
promise. The T. J. Smith stable
gave the Forest Stream mount
to its apprentice F. Leman,
who, though he rode the colt
skilfully, couldn’t bridge the
gap in the straight. Forest
Stream had shown the stable
winning efforts in Randwick
track-trials, and it might have
been luck in running that beat
him at the Farm. Equal
favorite Lord Russett doesn t
look as good as first believed,
but Slipper, who had won at
Canterbury a week earlier,
shaped well enough to jot down
for another quick success.
Bidgee Stream, trained by W.
Kelso and ridden in all recent
races by N. McGrowdie, made
it two in a row when he got
the Homestead Handicap at the
Farm. Grenoble’s fine win at
Warwick Farm at his last
appearance and his smart track-
work in the meantime earned
him favoritism for the race ; he
ran much below form, finishing
a faraway seventh. Extra
weight—he carried 8.8 —and
the heavy going near the rails
might have cut his tempo.
Kelso believes that Bidgee
Stream is a promising young
stayer, and it will be interesting
to see him opposed to stronger
fields. The three-year-old is by
Streamford from Tyldesly.
While Streamford’s progeny
have* mostly been sprinters, on
the dam’s side the colt traces to
Carbine.
When bookmakers gamble
against a favorite in the final
event of a programme follow-
ing a good winning day by
punters up till that stage, they
invariably do the right thing.
The boot was on the other foot
at Warwick Farm, though,
when Bolingbroke, ridden in
fine style by S. Cassidy, won the
concluding event, the Welter,
after easing from 6 to 4 to 5 to
2. Bolingbroke looked a fair
w'ager for the sprint after his
recent defeat of Teranyan, whd
straight after won the Ten
Thousand —and form worked
out.
By winning this year’s Grand
National Steeplechase with the
heavy burden of 11.12, Pedro's
Pride established herself as the
greatest jumping mare ever to
race in Victoria. Allowed to
make her own pace, she quickly
strode to the front, and although
conceding from 451 b. to 541 b-
. the opposition, was un-
troubled to maintain a comfort-
able lead unfil the last of the
25 fences, where she made her
first mistake. There she came
down on her nose, and sur-
rendered the lead to Akanriver
and Providore. Without assist-
ance from jockey L. Moore,
who temporarily lost control
of the reins, she picked herself
up, quickly regained the lead,
and was being eased down on
the line to win by 10 lengths.
On a track made dead by a
week of soaking rain, the mare's
time of 6.61 compared favor-
ably with Victory March’s race-
record of 6.2. It may be a
long time before we see a mare
capable of equalling the weight-
carrying performance of
Pedro’s Pride; indeed, few
mares are built on such massive
lines. She gets her bone-
structure from her sire, Don
Pedro, a Moonee Valley Cup
winner, who was an unusually
big horse ; and her stamina and
jumping ability through her
dam —an unnamed Gortland
mare who traces to Comedy
King, who sired dual Grand
National Hurdle winner
Fi scorn.
It is easy to overrate winter
form, but it will be surprising
if Wales, winner of the first
division of the mile Granville
Handicap for three-year-olds at
Flemington, does not develop
into a first-class horse. His
previous run —at Caulfield back
in May —was noted here as an
outstanding performance, and
last Saturday’s victory con-
firmed the promise he showed
then. He was able to sit in
behind the fast pace set by the
speedy Silver Breeze until the
straight - entrance, where he
bounded away to win as he
liked. Wales is N.Z.-bred, be-
ing by the former French
horse Targui (a son of Djebei),
who won several races up to
11 furlongs in France.
Experienced trainer Charlie
Wilson, who is not given to
rating his geese swans, thinks
highly of Wales. It will be no
surprise if the gelding wins one
of the important spring handi-
caps.
Racegoers at Flemington
were set a mammoth task to
locate the winner of the Lawn
Handicap over the straight-six
course, with 37 candidates
engaged. They did well to
nominate the three placegetters
from the only five horses to
start at single-figure odds. The
winner, Wallacedale, ran up
to the good form he displayed
at his previous start, when he
won at Moonee Valley. The
four-year-old Gay Lad gelding
is owned and trained by Frank
Manning, who formerly had a
big string of horses in train-
ing ; of late Manning has con- o
centrated on a small team, with
considerable success. An
interesting runner in the Lawn
Handicap was Damocles, an
English four-year-old horse
imported by Geoff and Jack
Madden to stand at their
Camperdown stud. In England
Damocles won a sprint when
trained by Sir Gordon
Richards and ridden by Scobie
Breasley.
• * • •
Although her recent form
had not been impressive, Push-
over’s record includes an Aus-
tralian Cup win, a victory in
an Adelaide Cup, and success
at weight-for-age, so that it
Mas not surprising to see her
trounce the moderate opposi-
tion in the 13-furlongs Winter
Handicap at Flemington. She
is raced by former Carlton
footballer Ray Brew, who now
lives in Adelaide but still
patronises racing in his home
State as often as possible. Push-
over will go to the stud next
season, and it will be surpass-
ing if her progeny do not do
well: along with her own good
record goes a strong trace of
Carbine blood.
On form, Kilair, who had
not previously won a jumping
event in the city, was not
entitled to start favorite in last
Saturday’s Dou 11 a Galla
hurdle ; but Brian Smith had
the mount on the aged gelding,
and Smith’s legion of admirers
forced the bookmakers to send
Kilair out first choice. The
gelding duly won by a great
space.
+ +
And Sundry Sports
Sporting dragnet: In Hono-
lulu Lorraine Crapp bettered
her own 800-metres world-
record (lOmin. 24.35ec.)
which, however, will not be
recognised. Dawn Fraser
equalled her world-record for
the 100-metres (625ec.)....
The third cricket Test between
England and West Indies was
drawn—moral victory to Eng-
land, which would have won if
some of her fieldsmen had been
safer on the last day....
Decided in Brisbane, the
Australian open snooker
championship was won by
world amateur champion
Warren Simpson, of N.S.W.,
who went through undefeated.
... .The 125-mile N.S.W.
cycling championship, held at


NOTHING EQUALS
Warmray's Amazing Efficiency
warmra y
TRIPLE-PURPOSE, SLOW-COMBUSTION,
AIR-CONDITIONING HOME HEATER
1 :
9 KSS
m
mm
Model No. 3
Super De Luxe
JL- Large Capacity
Over 8,000
cu. ft.
Special large
firebox for long
burning without
attention.
Extra large
hotplate for
cooking.
Installs in Rooms
with or without
Fireplaces.
Owing to fuel saving the "Warmray"
ACTUALLY COSTS NOTHING
Model No. 2A
•X- Heats over 5,000
cu. ft.
Modern artistic
cream porcelain
enamel on solid cast
Iron.
yt- No dirty fireplaces
to clean.
X Pull view of blazing
fire through open
or closed front.
X Lights In seconds
warms entire room
In minutes.
X No smoke or dust to
soil furnishings.
★ Reduces fuel bill at least 75 per cent.
mjjjmfmfnf
%mm)
Your appreciate ofVtermray- -
rffeSESS
WORLD PATENTED HEATING TUBES MAKE THIS
THE MOST ECONOMICAL AND BEST ROOM
HEATER OF THEM ALL—REGARDLESS OF PRICE!
%
mmm m m
»
WARMRAY
HEATING TUBES
The secret of Warmray’s Amazing Efficiency Is
the Patented Heating Tubes (illustrated above),
which are built into the firebox. The air in the
room passes through these tubes continuously,
thus maintaining an even warmth in every part
of the room.
JL BURNS ALL SOLID FUELS
* WOOD IS CLEANEST.
Sold by Stores, Builders’ Suppliers and
Hardware Merchants everywhere.
BUY NOW FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
WARMRAY PTY. LTD.
Manufacturers and Wholesale Distributors,
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams: “Warmray.” BL 2217.
If unobtainable locally, phone, write or call
for illustrated Brochure and name of nearest
agents.
Inverell (N.S.W.), was won by
R. Leach, of Western Suburbs
(Sydney), in 6hr. 16min. 58sec.
....A Russian athlete, Yuri
Stepanov, set a new world high-
jump record (7ft. lin.)
Ashley Cooper won the Irish
singles tennis-title, beating
Drobny in straight sets.
* * *
There was international
Soccer in both Sydney and
Melbourne last Saturday. At
Sydney Sportsground Australia
beat Hong Kong 4-1, after the
Chinese, who scored from a corner-
kick in the first 6min., had led 1-0
at half-time. The Australians settled
down to play really good football
in the second half. At Melbourne
Olympic Park, in a game which
fell short of international standard,
Ferencvaros (Hungary) beat F.K.
Austria 3-’.
“Veryl”: Hard-playing Cessnock
centre-forward Jack Drink water, of
whom I wrote (B. 12/6/’57), was the
hero of the Test against Hong Kong
on Saturday. He kicked three of
Australia’s goals, and it was from
a centre by him that Nunn kicked
the fourth goal. It was Drinkwater’s
first Test—at the age of 31.
As a comment on the international
nature of Soccer, here is a list of
press-passes for the current big
games in N.S.W. received by The
Bulletin from the Australian
Soccer Football Association
(incidentally, all the passes were
attractively got-up, with serrated
edges, and of various pastel shades)
—Australia v. Austria F.K. (S.C.G.,
July 6); Northern Districts v.
China (Wallsend, July 7); Austria v.
China (Sydney Sportsground, July
10, under floodlights—subsequently
postponed a few nights); Australia
v. China (Sportsground, July 13);
Hungary v. China (Sportsground,
July 16, under floodlights —post-
poned till tonight); Austria v. South
Coast (Wollongong, July 17);
Austria v. Hungary (S.C.G., July
20); South Coast v. Hungary
(Bulli, July 21); Northern Districts
v. China (Cessnock, July 28);
Northern Districts v. China (New-
castle, July 31); Australia v.
Hungary (Sydney Sportsground,
Aug. 3); Hungary v. China (New-
castle, Aug. 4); Australia v. Austria
(S.C.G., Aug. 17).
* * *
After Saturday’s V.F.L.
round Melbourne remains on
top, two match-points ahead of
Carlton, with Essendon and
Richmond, level on match-points
one win behind Carlton, making-up
“the four.” Collingwood and Mel-
bourne, whose earlier meeting had
been hard-fought, just going the
Demons’ way,- drew this time, 7.7-
6.13, after another hard-hitting
affair. Melbourne rover Ridley
snapped a goal in the last few
seconds to level the scores. Carlton
found South harder to handle, but
still won, 11.15-10.5. Richmond
gave Hawthorn a push downhill, as
other teams have been doing, 11.12-
10.15 —but the Tigers found it a
tough push. Essendon, faster and
more purposeful, beat Fitzroy 9.18-
7.10, while Geelong, winning its
first game after six successive losses
(though there were only one or two
Eoints difference a couple of times),
eat North 12.15-8.13. St. Kilda,
proving that the season is still topsy-
turvy, got home in a hard game
against Footscray, 14.16-14.8.
“Wilkie”: John Todd, South
Fremantle and W.A. rover,
has packed more mishaps into
his few years in top-grade foot-
ball than the average player
suffers in a long career. Todd
rocketed to fame by winning
the Sandover Medal (fairest
and best in W.A.N.F.L.) in his
first year in league-football in
1955 at the age of 17. Then
early in the 1956 season he
badly hurt a knee, spent
months trying to get fit and,
after a bitter controversy, was
named as a reserve for his side
in the second semi-final. He
played a quarter, again hurt his
knee and limped off the ground.
This season the row flared
again over Todd’s fitness.
Subiaco F.L. president, Bert
Mills, saw a Harlem Globe-
trotters’ star wearing a special
knee-bandage and got one for
Todd, who then tried himself
out in the thirds.' Doing well,
he was promoted to the league
side and, after two games, was
picked for W.A. against Vic-
toria in the Tuesday game
Todd played dashingly, but ten
minutes before the end was
knocked unconscious and
carried off on a stretcher. At
time of writing he was rarin’ to
go again.
* * *
In Sydney Rugby Union’s
match-of-the-day Randwick,
which had beaten Manly easily
last time they’d met, went down
valiantly to the Villagers,
15-20. It was a cracking game,
with the losers, who played all
but 4min. of the second half
with 14 men, never letting-up.
Manly deserved its win, but
the Greens certainly could do
with a goalkicker. In the other
games Gordon, as expected,
accounted for North 22-11, St.
George, as expected, beat
Drummoyne 20-12, University,
as anticipated, had little trouble
With Eastwood 17-3, and EasL
as foreseen (though needing to
battle quite a bit), defeated
Parramatta 18-14.
* * *
“Jock”: Basketball is played
in Australia probably more by
women and girls than by men.
But at Lithgow (N.S.W.) males
have taken up the speedy sport
in earnest, and there are five
grades in the local competition.
Matches are played at night
in the huge Civic Ballroom on
the recreation-reserve. Many
of the players are in Rugby
League competition as well, and
they say basketball is an
excellent conditioner. What
football-coaches say their
heads full of strategic moves to
outwit opposing teams, but
faced with only half their teams
at the twice-a-week night prac
tices —is quite another matter.


AUTHORS
are invited to submit MSS of ail
types mietuding; poems) for book
publication. Reasonable terms.
STOCKWELL LTD.,
Elms Court, Efracombe, England
(Established 1898)
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants
Wanted a copy of the limited
edition of Hits, Skits and Jingles
with the Norman Lindsay illustra-
tions, and signed by tire author; also
copies No. 1 and 6 of Manuscripts.
—6546.
A letter has been received from
the Provisional School, Eurunderee
(N.S.W.), requesting any material
televant to Henry Lawson: “As you
are quite well aware, Eurunderee
was the home of Henry Lawson.
At present there is no evidence
in the school to show that this
great Australian was once a pupil
here. It has been proposed that a
museum be established at the school.
1 his would serve to commemorate
his life and works and would be
available to interested spectators.”
Any replies should be addressed
to M. Rowlands, Provisional School,
Eurunderee, N.S.W.
To buy copies of the following:
To the Central African Lakes and
Back (2 vols.), by J. Thomson;
Tillyard’s The Insects of Australia;
Lunacy in Many Lands (Sydney,
1887), by G. Tucker; “The Vaga-
bond Papers” (Ist, 3rd and 4th
series); Victorian Regional
Boundaries Committee — Report on
Regional Boundaries (Melbourne,
1945); Half-crown Bob, and Tales of
the Isle of Death, by P. Warung.—
6550.
To buy the following: “The Aus-
tialian Museum Magazine” (Vot. 1
—Nos. 1,3, 11, 12; Vot. B—Nos.
1,2); “Records of the Australian
Museum” (Vol. 1-—Nos. 2,4, 6);
“Queensland Naturalist” (Vol. 1 —
Nos. 2-6; Vol. 2—Nos. 1-3; Vol.
3—Nos. 2,4; Vot. 4—No. 1);
“Mankind,” official journal of the
Anthropological Society of N.S.W.
(Vol. I—Nos. 3,6; Vol. 2—No. 9;
Vol. 4—No. 2); “Minutes and Pro-
ceedings of the Engineering Associa-
tion of N.S.W.” (Nos. 4,5, 7, 18,
21-23, 26, 31).—6553.
To buy copies of the following:
What Butterfly Is That ? by Water-
house ; Pamir, the Story of a Sailing-
Ship (Reed, Wellington), by Waters;
Twenty Years' Mission Life on
Tanna (London, 1896), by A. C. P.
Watt; The Problem of Pidgin’ in
the Trust Territory of New Guinea
(on the use of vernacular languages
in education; Unesco, Paris, 1953),
by C. H. Wedgwood; W. C. Went-
worth’s poem “Australasia”;
Wcnyon’s Protozoology. —6ss4.
To buy copy of Tale of Genfi. by
Lady Murasaki (in English and/or
Japanese).—6ssl.
To buy copy of The Early Days of
Bathurst, by Mrs. Busby.—6ss2.
To buy copy of The Animals
Noah forgot. —6s4B.
To buy the following: Historical
Records of N.S.W. (set or odd
parts); Britton’s History of N.S.W.,
from the Records (Part 11); Troedel
and Cogne’s Melbourne Album;
any old prints of Melbourne or
Sydney streets or early settlement. —
6549.
Information Sought
Brief particulars of artist Henri
Matisse ?
Bom in 1869 of a middle-class
French family, he entered a lawyer’s
office, but at 22 threw up his job
and enrolled in the Academie
Julian, studying under Gustave
Moreau. His first pictures were
conventional, but in 1905 at the
Autumn Salon he exhibited his
“Woman with Hat,” described by
one critic as “a portrait of a
seated lady in a multicolored
costume, wearing a prodigious hat
that looked to the bewildered
spectators like nothing str much as
a large basket of entrails and
spinach.” (In 1952 “Woman with
Hat” was sold in San Francisco lor
£9000.) In the period b.fore World
War I Matisse became leader of the
“ Hasn't that wife of yours come back yet , Proctor?"
Fauves (“wild men”), who applied
their paint straight from the tubes
and had a passion for violence in
their paintings. When 82 Matisse
designed and built a chapel for a
Dominican convent on the Riviera,
which he considered his greatest
smgle work. He died at Nice
(France) on Nov. 3, 1954. In 1952
the Felton Bequest paid lOOOgns.
lor a nude by Matisse which hangs
in the Victorian National Gallery.
* * * *
What was the incident in which
Captain George Grey was involved
with the aborigines at Albany
{W.A.) in the 1830’s? A hist or v-
book speaks of his “success with the
aborigines” there prior to his going
to New Zealand, but l can discover
ifw f , ~
After his journeys of exploration
y nordi-west of Western Aus-
tralia, Captain Grey was appointed
■ s a l *"; g George s Sound
3 -i’• 83 w' He
t - f° ase citam, by prac-
m:n*> eXF o l nment % the Possibility ot
the . naoves m settled
i FirSf - ° f , a he , set
a number of aborigines to work at
roadmaking. “In dealing with the
childlike minds of these people,”
says The Life and Times of Sir
George Grey, K.C.8., by William
Lee Rees and L. Rees (1892), “he
found it necessary to present the
incentive of prompt and immediate
payment. Twice every day were
his native workmen paid. When half
the day’s toil had been accomplished
they received sixpence each and
....at the end of the day they
would receive the further sum of
a shilling.” With tolerant over-
seers specially chosen by Grey, this
plan worked well; Grey never for-
sook it, and never found it to fail.
While Resident, and earlier on in
his explorations, Grey devoted his
time, attention and study to the
habits of life and methods of
thought of the aborigines; he tried
always to win their confidence and
goodwill, and to teach them to
welcome Europeans as friends. His
experiment in the few months he
was at Albany was a complete
success, resulting in peaceful settle-
ment and the peaceful and useful
employment of the natives. There
does not seem to be any one
particular “incident” at Albany
between Grey and the aborigines
that can be singled-out for mention.
Brief Answers
Len: Definitely not 8.N.:
According to figures given recently
by the Acting Commonwealth
Statistician (S. R. Carver), S.A. is
increasing m population at a faster
rate than any other State (that is,
on a percentage basis). S.A.’s
growth-rate was 3.27 p.c.; next-
highest is Victoria (3.04 p.c.). S.A.’s
estimated population at Dec. 31 last
year was 861,912 R.J.S.:
Ordinary building-lime, supplied by
hardware- or timber-merchants, is
generally used. A good mixture is
made by combining one part
slaked-hme, one part cement, and
six or seven parts dean sharp
sand. Make up only smallish
quantities and work quickly, as it
. set' rapidly Pedigree
Enthusiast (Warwick Farm): English
Derby winner Crefjcllo was bred
at the Eve Stud by his owner (Sir
Victor Sassoon), and is a chestnut
colt by Donatello II from
Crepuscule by Mieuxce from Red
Sunset by Solario from Duke II
by Asterus from the French Oaks
winner Dorina by La Farina. It is
a Hne which has produced several
good winners in England J.S.:
Arthur Yates and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
advise that they have no lima-beaa
seed at present, nor have they had
any for the past four or five years,
It is, however, suggested that you
contact the Sanitarium Health
Food Company, 13 Hunter-street,
Sydney, for some lima-beans; and
if you can manage to get them and
grow them, save the seed for further
plantings... .A.J.: Scrip of the co.
on ’Change is at par, or a little
below... .R.G.H.: (1) No order of
preference; all four recommended.
(2) Yes V.J.: According to the
Centenary History of South Aus-
tralia (1936) the first salt-refinery
in the State was founded in 1875.
W.J.A.t Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., recommends Green Fields and
Pastures New, by J. E. Hodge,
described as an attempt to put
together sufficient proven facts to
guide in achieving better pastures
better stock, heavier crops and
increased soil-fertility. (15s post.
Is.) L.McL.: The sex of adult
white cockatoos can be determined
by the eyes—the cock bird has a
black eye, while the hen has
® fight-colored ring
P centre of the eye.
Taronga Zoological > y
AG .° (]) On Seotemher 1Q W4Q
(Australian time) the British
Chancellor of the’ Exchequer Sir
Stafford Cripps and the Australian
Prime Minister, J. B. Chifley
announced simultaneously that
L.uam and Australia had devalued
their currencies in relation to the
US. dollar. The exchange-rate of
the £stg was fixed at $2.80 instead
of s4.o3—a devaluation of 30 per
cent. The Australian £ was
devalued as against the U.S. dollar
to the same extent, but the rate of
£AI2S to £stgloo remained
unchanged. (2) i. B. Chifley died
on June 13, 1951.


ill
(Ac
Fulurc
\
Automation has come to the fore as a topic
of the times, and people naturally ask themselves
what effect it is likely to have in the shaping of
human history.
Actually, it is not new. A machine can do
certain work ; another machine can be devised to
, operate and feed it. The integration of Power and
Control has flowed inevitably from the first and
simplest forms of mechanisation.
Latterly, the impact of Automation has come
more dramatically upon the world with the build-
ing of electronic computers or “brains” that can
solve intricate mathematical problems, and check
their own calculations. Australian specialists in the
work are familiar with them, and with their
performance.
Along with this, there is the growing use of
electronic data-processing equipment that will revo-
lutionise business administration. By the employ-
ment of a punched card or a piece of magnetic
tape, information can be fed to machines that give
back an astonishingly clear record of trends, costs,
accounting, and so on.
Now, the worth of these and similar wonders
is in the technical use to which they are put —in
quick and cheap production ; in a higher order of
service ; in the extent to which business executives
are able to analyse and profit from the answers
delivered to them by mechanical systems.
And most important of all, there are the social
and economic effects of Automation to consider.
In Australia we are relatively few in popula-
tion and in work-force. We enjoy standards
dependent largely upon the cost of our exports in
competitive markets. Here more than in most
countries, I believe, we stand to gain from accept-
ing and using everything this Automatic Age has
to offer.
Provided the human equation is recognised in
applying it, Automation should be welcomed as
yet another blessing that Science and Research
have earned for mankind.
sound of the music and
dancing.
She sat opposite the woman
at the table, spreading out her
hands obediently and staring
frightened at the glass ball.
Madame touched the long,
childish hands with squat
fingers.
“The hands tell me what the
face has told me; you are
young, the heart rules, you are
unhappy, you are foolish —very
foolish. There is a thin fair
man in your life and he is not
the man for you. I see danger
bv the sea, danger and per-
haps death ” .
Sylvie's hands shrank and
quivered. But Madame pushed
them away.
“I have finished with the
hands. Now it’s the eyes I
want.”
She lifted her eyes.
‘Eyes ' tell the truth,”
Madame said, leaning forward.
“Always believe the eyes. The
eyes tell me that you are
afraid. Afraid of what, I
wonder? That you are waiting
for something. But for some-
thing that will never happen.
The eyes tell me that you will
go back to where you came
from and forget the thing that
you are waiting for. It will
never happen. It is something to
do with the thin fair man. But
he is not the man for you. You
will go back to where you came
from, because you are afraid.
A dark woman stands in your
way and you are not strong
enough to get what you want.
I am afraid green is an un-
lucky color, after all. .
eYLVIE’S scream was lost in
the noise of music.
Madame toppled softly on to
the table, on to the glass ball.
The steel-pointed stick came
with her, quivering and upright
in her back.
“Sylvie,” breathed the clown
“I had to do it. Stay here
Stay with me. Don’t go!”
But she was gone, running,
running down the path in
silence, vanishing at a wild
speed towards the street,
across it ; going back to where
she came from.
The clown stood at the door-
way looking after her. The
crowd drifted by and the band
played.
After a few minutes the light
went out in the tent. The
clown came out again and
hung up a faded white notice:
Closed Until Tomorrow.
The lovers came and looke
at it, disappointed, and walked
on towards the music.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
blame and address must appear on
all MSS. No tiability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps accom-
pany. MSS. sho'uld be addressed
to the Editor; they will be con-
sidered for publication on the
understanding that they may be
shortened or altered as the Editor
thinks necessary.
G.S.: Evanescent F.L.M.:
Reads like a billboard... .8.J.L.:
Those “silver strands of song
divine” need a haircut.... P.T,:
That type of story generally arrives
at this time of year... .M. 0.: “Ode
to Gazelles” ran away with itself.
... .J.M.K.: “You might find some-
thing in this.” But what?....
F.M.G.: We shot the werewolf....
A.W.: “Pass the Mustard” didn’t
pass muster H.D.: “Oh, let me
return to the wide, open spaces.”
Right.... 8.H.: A short-story is
more than an aimless stringing-
together of cliches... .S.M.D.: “The
Baker-boy Baritone” won’t make
any dough here... .K.R.: Second-
rate. ... M.A.: Those “mildewed
flaccid tea-leaves” poured-out
R.1.K.: The station-manager’s
moustache faintly tickled u 5....
Ben: Try again, 8en....W.F.:
More like a lecture than anything.
. ...H.L.E.: “Whither away?” Ah,
whither? R.R.: “The
Deaconess’s Petticoat” altogether
too frilly.... 8.5.: That gull-story
might interest the birds... .S.M.:
The “torrents of torrential rain”
gushed out of the office... .J.F.K..:
A rough pastiche... .N.G.: Terrible.
.. . .G.F.D.: Promising if you’re
young... .M.C.: Smooth but hack-
neyed ... .A.C.: Poems beginning
“Awaken, Australia, before it is too
late!” always send us to sleep....
J.K.: We ducked the ducks....
L.T.:
What would they do, these Bondi
peaches,
If from our sunlit beaches
They were dumped securely, square
Oh a desert island bare?
They would, we hope, put some
clothes 0n....L.G.: Some force in
il Try a religious paper and for
Heaven’s sake don’t type it all in
capital letters. .. .A.J.D.: At least
it’s the first time we’ve ever shaken
hands with a river:
And without this rippling river
Extending Nature’s hand,
Lite would be grim and dry and hard
For the man upon the land.
. ...N.R.P.: One line, then, of
“Ode to the Golden Wattle”: —•
O lovely wattle a flower of renown a
colorful beauty ...
. ...J.S.R.: Put “Nightaby” to bed-
a-bye... .J. 8.:
Did you ever sit by a placid stream and
dream
And visualise the turbulence beneath
tranquillity ?
Like the soul of a man as it must seem
thru’ frustration
And not inability?
Frequently, brother; frequently.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
HUNGARY
pRESS-COMMENT on the
United Nations report on
Soviet intervention in Hungary:
London “Economist” : “This
lengthy report is based on a
thorough sifting, in New York,
Geneva, Rome, Vienna and
London, of all the available
documentary and other evi-
dence. The [U.N.] committee
heard and cross-examined —•
evidently closely and exhaus-
tively 111 witnesses who
between them represented a
complete cross-section of all
who took part, either actively
or passively, in the revolution.
Its conclusions, presented in a
dry, bland, precise style that is
far more effective than any
amount of emotion, are a
devastating rebuttal of the
Communist version of what
took place in Hungary last
October and November.”
* * *
“New York Times”: “The
report demolishes all of the lies,
inventions and rationalisations
by which the Soviet Govern-
ment has sought to explain,
justify and defend its crimes
in Hungary. It strips the Soviet
Government morally bare. It
makes plain that what the
Soviet Government did in
Hungary was as rotten and
criminal as anything in the
worst pages of the bloody
history of Tsarist Russia.”
* * *
New York “Herald Tribune” :
“... .a 391-page document that
constitutes probably the most
biting and bitter denunciation
that any U.N. member has ever
undergone at the hands of its
peers. The report represents
the unanimous finding of five
nations which range from pro-
Western to neutralist —Aus-
tralia, Denmark, Uruguay,
Tunisia and Ceylon. By no
stretch of the imagination can
it be called a partisan or biased
document. Rather does it
represent the finding of the
world’s conscience in the wake
ol one of the most vicious
crimes of modern times.”
* * *
London “Sunday Times”:
“This is Soviet Communism as
it really is, and if the report
does nothing else it has
reawakened the world to that
fact.”
London “Daily Mail” : “One
sentence tells us all we need to
know. It refers to Mr. Kadar,
the Premier who now sits on
the corpse of his country, and
it says he has ‘proceeded step
by step to destroy the power of
the workers.’ This is Com-
munism in action: Com-
munism, which, to survive,
must silence the voice of
freedom and ‘destroy the power
of the workers.’ ”
* * *
London “Daily Telegraph” :
“The treachery, the brutality,
the cynicism, and the dreadful
success of this aggression are
London “Doily Mail”
THE VICTOR OF BUDAPEST
Illingworth’s cartoon of November, 1956, brought up to date.
set forth in cold and incon-
trovertible terms. By implica-
tion, the methods by which Mr.
Khrushchev maintains the
Communist colonial empire in
Eastern Europe are exposed to
view -”
* * * *
The same: “Outside the
Communist world (where the
report is hardly likely to be
officially published) Com-
munism must surely suffer a
further setback. In France,
in Italy and in this country
[Britain], the leaders of the
party will no doubt persuade
themselves, somehow or other,
that black is still white. But
those on whose support they
depend, even if they do not
read the report, can hardly fail
to realise that it contains
absolute proof that what the
Western papers said about
Hungary at the time is the
truth. The Soviet system is a
monstrous and aggressive
despotism. Secondly, now that
the lies which the Russian
leaders told in the United
Nations last year have been
exposed by the United Nations,
it will be difficult for anyone
to believe what they say next
time.”
The same : “The Hungarian
Supreme Court's savage
revision of sentences on patriot
leaders, from short terms of
imprisonment to death, gives us
a single issue on which the
free world should now concen-
trate. The Hungarian
authorities have produced not
a single new item of evidence
to justify raising the sentences
from three years’ imprisonment
to death. It is an act of
calculated terrorism. Coming
just after the United Nations’
terrible indictment of the
Hungarian regime, it can only
be taken as the Communist
world’s contemptuous retort.”
* * *
London “Daily Express”:
“As usual, U.N.O. was unable
to do anything about the
troubles at the time. Indeed, to
this day it has not managed
to send representatives inside
Hungary. U.N.O.- excels at
staging debates, is unmatched
at passing resolutions, has a
flair for special committees. But
at the end of it all Hungary
remains enslaved.”
* * *
“Manchester Guardian ”;
“Goya used to scribble beneath
his lightning glimpses of the
disasters of war: ‘this also
happened.’ The committee has
done the same thing by other
means. For the flash of horror
it substitutes sober documneta-
tion, careful discussion of dates,
places, movements, and events ;
but it etches the story into
men’s minds just as well. This
is a last service to Hungary
from those who did her scarcely
any other.”
• • • •
The same: “It [the U.N.
Assembly].can debate: it can
even censure and so perhaps
lead the Soviet Union (for a
time) to walk out. That is all.
In the event its real contribu-
tion is this document, which
sets out what men will do even
though the principalities and
powers do not expect them to
do it, and, after they have done
it, can only give them food
and lodging and tell their
story.”
* * *
“Yorkshire Post ”: “This
grim document should form a
constant reminder to the rest


Missing Friend
TO THOMAS GEORGE FLUKES
formerly of Nowa Nowa in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife IVY
ISABEL FLUKES of 30 lllawarra Road
Hawthorn in the said State lias insti-
tuted proceedings against you in the
Suprem Court of the State of Victoria
for divorce on the ground of desertion
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
unless you enter an appearance at the
Office of the Prothonotary on or before
the twentieth day of August 1957 the
suit may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs If
you intend to defend this suit you must
cause an answer to be tiled iu me
Office of the Prothonotary on or before
the thirtieth day of August 1957. —
CEDRIC RALPH, of 317 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor tyr the Petitioner.
Between
Ourselves
■—Have You Ever Tried
This?
You can educate a
wife for next-to-nothing
by seeing that she reads
the entertaining, infor-
mative, world-ranging
articles featured each
week in
The Australian
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Price SEVENPENCE ONLY
each week
PEARL
ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
Incorporated in England
FIRE
ACCIDENT
AND
GENERAL
INSURANCE
Funds Exceed
£235,000,000
Offices .•
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE
BRISBANE, ADELAIDE,
PERTH LAUNCESTON,
AUCKLAND and
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
of the world of the fate that
awaits any nation falling into
the Soviet Communist grip.”
The same: “How can we
treat with such cynical, murder-
ous monsters? How can we
put the slightest trust in their
word when we wish to talk of
disarmament and of banning
hydrogen-bomb tests? The
answer is double: we must
discuss —and they must discuss
—because there is no alterna-
tive ; and we can to some extent
trust their undertakings
because, unlike the Hungarian
heroes, we possess the
hydrogen-bomb.”
v * *
London “Observer": “There
is only one practicable way of
helping the Hungarians (or the
Poles or the East Germans, or
any of their fellow-sufferers): to
try to alter this disastrous parti-
tion of Europe by negotiation.
As the Russians have no
reasons to give up territory in
favor of the West, this can be
done only as it was done : n
Austria—by putting a neutral
zone between the military zones
of East and West. That zone
would still have to be protected
as the Eastern and Western
blocs protect their own terri-
tories today—by the threat of
nuclear retaliation against
whichever party crossed its
frontier. But the States within
the neutral zone, while having
limited armies to guard against
subversion and threats, would
have no military links and
grant no bases to either side.”
U.K. Bases—Two
Views
Commenting on Britain’s
Middle East bases, “Yorkshire
Post” notes that the Defence
White Paper “makes it plain
that we [Britain] shall ensure
that we are in a position to
give our friends in the Middle
East powerful support should
this prove necessary.”
“Britain, it [the White
—London “Daily Mirror”
“I said I’d be delighted ...” —Bang!—“ ...to agree on something
..."—Bang!—“...we could all agree to agree upon ...”
—BANG—“...now ...”
Paper] says, will maintain, in
the Arabian Peninsula and in
East Africa, land, sea and air
forces to defend Aden Colony
and protectorates, and the
Persian Gulf territories for
which she is responsible. British
forces wilFalso be available to
meet Britain’s obligations under
the Baghdad Pact.”
The difficulty about support-
ing this policy, London
“Economist” notes, is that the
entire structure of British
ideas about bases in the Middle
East was one of “the casual-
ties of the Suez campaign”:
“Malta proved too far away
for the Air Force; Cyprus
proved inadequate for the
Navy; Aden proved to be
impossible for everybody ; and
President Nasser wound up the
agreement to activate the Suez
base itself in any other sort
of emergency and bagged at
least £lOO-million-worth of
stores and installations.”
It looks, the “Economist”
adds, as though Defence
Minister Sandys, after “an
overseas tour to study the
wrec k a g e,” is “favorably
impressed by the idea that all
previous plans had better be
scrapped and a new combined-
services base created in
Kenya.”
Favoring the Kenya base,
London “Daily Mail” notes it
as typical of the resources and
resource of the British Com-
monwealth that “when our
base in Ceylon goes we move
to the Maldives. We leave
Palestine and later make an
arrangement with Libya. When
we withdraw from Suez we
shift our headquarters to
Cyprus.”
Of the three possible places
for Middle East H.Q. suggested
by Defence Minister Sandys—
Cyprus, where it is now, Aden,
and Kenya—the “Daily Mail”
adds that “we all know more
about Cyprus than we did a
year ago. Apart from the pre-
carious political situation, it
could not respond to the
demands of the Suez crisis.
“What of Aden? That is
already a naval base, but the
surrounding territory is arid
and inhospitable. It would
lake enormous expenditure to
provide ordinary amenities. It
also has the disadvantage of
turbulent neighbors.
“Kenya is without question
the most promising prospect.
If a big new British base were
to be formed there it would not
be a new idea but a return to
a good old one.
“Soon after the last war a
group of high-ranking and for-
ward - looking Army com-
manders put forward this sug-
gestion. They pointed out that
an East African H.Q. would be
far enough to be safeguarded
by distance while near enough
to exert control over the vital
areas. Behind it would be all
the resources of Southern
Africa.
“So near to reality did their
vision become that in 1947 a
great military stores depot, to
cost £8 million, was started at
Mackinnon Road, between
Mombasa and Nairobi. Work
was stopped in 1951 as an
economy measure. A great
pity! Had there been a base at
Mackinnon Road some recent
happenings might uave taken a
different course.”
Taking an almost exactly
opposite view, John Connell —
one of the group of trenchant
writers who strongly opposed
the - original withdrawal from


Q.M.S. had dealt with an indent
•—the whole project was shut
down, at a cost of some £3
million ... £3 million to British
taxpayers.
“I have just mentioned Sara-
fand ; I thought about Palestine
which I once knew well—about
Haifa and Ramleh and Lydda,
[ARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
•or any class of Machinery
or Equipment
MFTER CHARTS a Specialty
ACCURACY GUARANTEED
mUWM O'SULLIVAN % l
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Suez —writes in London “Even-
ing News” that “at the latter
end of 1948 the [British]
Labor Government, having
scuttled at a great pace out of
Palestine, decided in a flurry
and a scurry to open a great
new base in Kenya, at a place
called Mackinnon Road, some
70 miles from Mombasa.
“A whopping big base depot
Mackinnon Road was going to
be, with sheds for about
182,000 tons of R.E. stores,
living quarters for some 5000
permanent British staff, a
Naafi, a cinema, R.E.M.E.
workshops, an R.A.O.C. depot,
hospitals—rather like Sarafand,
which, a few months earlier, we
had handed over intact and free
to the Arabs, and which the
Jews captured three nights
afterwards.
“Two years later —never a
troop had gone there, not a
single packet of fags had been
sold in Naafi, not a single
Westminster Tennis Form
by Emmwood in London
“Daily Mail”
No. 1 SEED
Battling Mac ( holder ) hoping
to retain both Commonwealth
and European titles.
No. 2 SEED
The Bounding Boy from Ebbw
Vote . . . frightens opponents
with volleys and backhands.
and Ramoth David—about the
equipment and the installations,
the tents, the huts, the roads,
the airfield runways, which cost
somewhere about £3OO million,
which we [Britain] abandoned.
“I thought glumly about
Suez—about Tel-el-Kebir, and
Abu Sueir, and Ismailia—about
the equipment and the installa-
tions, the tents, the huts, the
roads, the airfield runways, the
Naafis, the cinemas, the
sergeants’ messes—which cost,
well, was it £6OO million? which
we abandoned.
“I thought about Habbaniya
in Irak, about Mafraq and
Irbid in Jordan; I thought
about Libya; I thought about
Cyprus—about the vast new
permanent buildings for com-
mand and staff use which I saw
abuilding near Nicosia two
years ago, which we are now
going to abandon.
“Why did we quit Palestine?
Because of political trouble we
couldn’t handle.
“Why did we quit Suez?
Ditto.
“Why Irak, why Jordan?
Ditto, ditto.
“Why shall we quit Cyprus
(which was an asinine place to
go to anyway)? Because of
political trouble we can’t
handle.
“Have a look at Aden,
regardless of its remarkably
unsalubrious climate. Think
about King Aramco Saud and
the Imam of the Yemen. Think
about Cairo Radio and its
bloodcurdling observations.
Up stumps, boys, Aden’s too
hot.
“Have a look at Kenya
again. Think about Mau-Mau.
Think about Communist—and
Egyptian playing-up of
African sensitivity to
‘colonialism.’
“Think — just stop and think
about money wasted, honor
tarnished, responsibility
abandoned, good lads
murdered —just stop and think
before you launch into this
new, wild expedient, and do
you feel able to persuade your-
selves that this will be the last,
the halting place?
“I do not, and the whole
prospect makes me sick and
angry.”
Red China Trade
London “Economist’s”
summing-up of the immediate
results of Britain’s revised
trading arrangements with
Communist China:
“All the major West European
Governments have now fol-
lowed the British lead and
relaxed their embargoes on
trade with China, bringing them
into line with that on trade
with Russia.
“The Chinese have answered
the British gesture by placing
an order of £lOO,OOO with the
British Motor Corporation for
Austin ; they had been
dangling the possibility for
some years. A delegation from
West Germany is to visit China
in a few weeks to negotiate
terms of trade and payments;
and Italy has eased the way for
an expansion of exports to
China by liberalising payments
arrangements as well as by
relaxing its embargo.
“Outside the United States,
only Australia and Japan, of
the nations most concerned
No. 3 SEED
Gorgeous Rabble... turns on
the tap when in difficulties.
with China trade, have not yet
moved. But now that Mr.
Kishi's visit to Washington is
over, Japan, too, is expected to
follow the crowd. The schism
in ‘Chincom’ between the
United States and its allies has
become plain for all to see.
“Now that it is complete,
tempers can cool and realism
reassert itself. China’s economic
difficulties may not permit the
traders of Europe, after their
bout of orders, to get the big
results from the relaxation of
No. 4 SEED
Little Hughie... serves equally
well from Left or Right.
the embargo for which some of
them once hoped.
“In the ‘Chincom’ committee
negotiations are now beginning
to determine the size of quotas
for the goods on ‘List 2,’ goods
which may be exported in
limited quantities under the
embargo; the European
members of the committee may
reasonably make a friendly
gesture to the United States by
establishing fairly tight quotas.
“The United States, on the
other hand, is showing an in-
creased interest in trade with
the rest of the Communist
bloc, though not with China.
It [has] relaxed formal restric-
tions on 200 non-strategic
exports to the Soviet Union
and other East European
countries. And a spectacular
American exhibit at the Poznan
Fair this month marked the
growth of American efforts to
sell food and consumer goods
to the Communist world.
“But on China trade, Wash-
ington is unlikely to budge, at


Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
In Divorce.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO LEONARD GEORGE ERDMAN late
Of Sydnev.—TAKE NOTICE that ILA
MAY ERDMAN has filed a petition for
divorce No. 4252 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
20th September 1957 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
ALBERT G. KENCH & SON, Solicitors,
of 117 Pitt Street, Sydney. J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO MAVIS LEONARD formerly of
Harbour Road Mourilyan in the State
of Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that
JOHN ALPHONSUS LEONARD has
filed Petition No. 1378 of 1957 praying
for divorce from MAVIS LEONARD on
the ground of her desertion during
three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney in the State
of New South Wales by the 20th day of
September 1957 A copy of the peti-
tion may be obtained free of charge
from Mr. JOHN W. BINNEY, Solicitor
for the Petitioner, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.— S. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
TO ALFRED CHARLES ROCKCLIFF-
KENNAR ANDREWS late of Woollahra.
—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY ANNE
ANDREWS has filed a petition for
divorce No. 1475 of 1955 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards and
is asking the Court to exercise its
discretion under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you might enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th day of September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ALLAN E. CUPIT AND
BEST, Solicitors, of Federal Mutual
Chambers, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.— In Divorce.
No. 142 of 1957.
TO CARLO JOHN GAMSER late of
No. 26 Darlinghurst Road Kings Cross.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET
GAMSER has filed petition for divorce
No. 142 of 1957 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 13th day of September 1957 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from F. B. LITTLE & COEN,
Solicitors, of 2-12 Carrington Street,
Sydney.—J. DOUGHAN, Registrar.
THE ORION
INSURANCE COMPANY UMITED
(Incorporated in England)
FIRE • ACCIDENT • MARINE
NEW SOUTH WALES OFFICE:
19 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONES: BE 4387 (2 lines).
L. F. THORPE, MANAGER.
least for the present; for the
feeling is still strong that China,
not Russia, is the greatest
political and economic threat
to stability in the world.”
Small Cars
In Australia, as in most other
countries unblessed by un-
limited dollars, small cars—
small, that is, when compared
with the four-wheeled flats
which Uncle Sam produces—
are the rule rather thatt the
exception, and the few large
modern American vehicles
occasionally seen generally
carry diplomatic number-plates
or some other signs of privilege.
American manufacturers, of
course, have enough troubles
trying to sell their remarkable
output of these gleaming
monsters in the U.S., and now
it appears that their worries
are increasing as the small
European car, once a rarity in
the U.S., is rapidly gaining in
popularity in that country.
“The worst of it,” comments
Louisville (U.S. A.) “Courier-
Journal,” is that these small
cars ’‘‘are showing up right on
the parking-lots of the big
Detroit automobile factories.
Some of the people who work
there have evidently fallen for
the convenience and the low
cost of a car from overseas.
“Foreign-car registrations in
this country [the U.S.] for the
first quarter of 1957 were only
34,000, but the figure was
double that of the same period
last year. Any manufacturer
would be pleased with the up-
ward curve of sales shown by
such foreign leaders as the
German Volkswagen.
“Prosperous America is
bursting with two-car families.
The second car is used almost
exclusively for the short haul
between suburban home and
office or neighborhood shop-
ping-centre. The big fast car
that America made famous still
has its place in modern life, but
it can’t completely dominate
the market as it has done since
the war. The gaudy monster
with its chromium grin and its
tail-fins flying can be more of
a nuisance than a pride on a
crowded street.”
The obvious solution for
American manufacturers, the
paper concludes, “is to start
producing smaller, more
economical cars here at
home”:
“European producers have
the advantage of lower wages,
to be sure. But they also have
the disadvantage of costly
shipment across the Atlantic
and of a tariff of 9| per cent.
American skill should be able
to hurdle that kind of compe-
tition, if only the car-mdkers
will break the spell of ever
bigger, fancier, faster and more
expensive cars.”
U.S. Ruling on
Communism
The U.S. Government's
main weapon against Com-
munism is the Smith Act of
1940, which makes it a crime
to conspire to teach or advocate
the violent overthrow of the
New York “Herald Tribune”
“YOU’VE GOT TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND THIS THING”
Government, or to organise or
help groups dedicated to this
purpose.
While the ruling of the U.S.
Supreme Court in the case of
14 (Californians charged with
violating the Smith Act—five
freed and nine for retrial —
does not negate the Act, it will,
as London “Economist”
comments, “make convictions
very much harder obtain.”
The Supreme Court, “New
York Times” notes, “drew the
fundamental distinction be-
tween ‘advocacy of abstract
doctrine’ and ‘advocacy directed
at promoting unlawful action.’ ”
It held that “the Smith Act,
which the High Court long ago
sustained, does not prohibit
mere ‘teaching of forcible over-
throw as an abstract principle,
divorced from any effort to
instigate action to that end.’
“This is a most important
Constitutional distinction be-
tween freedom of thought and
limitations on action—but one
which the public and even law-
enforcing authorities in the heat
of emotion do not always take
into account.”
An even more significant
decision by the Supreme Court,
the “N. Y. Times” adds, was
its reversal of “the conviction
of a union organiser for con-
tempt of Congress because he
refused to give the names of
former Communist associates,
This has become a leading case
in the effort to limit the scope
of Congressional questioning
to valid legislative purposes, as
distinct from mere attempts to
expose witnesses to ridicule or
disgrace ‘for exposure’s sake.’
“In striking at the broad
powers assumed by the House
Un-American Activities Corn-
mittee, Chief Justice Warren
reminded Congress again that
its power to investigate is
‘broad but not unlimited,’ that
Congress is not ‘a law-enforce-
ment or trial agency’ and that
‘investigations conducted solely
for the personal aggrandise-
ment of the investigators or to
punish those investigated are
indefensible.’ ”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Exports to Malaya
Despite the shortcomings of
Australian foodstuffs exported
to Malaya (B. 26/6/’57
Westralia has established
valuable export trade in
vegetables with Singapore since
the war, and is holding thai
trade in the teeth of competi-
tion from other places.
This is especially true ol
cauliflowers. The first ship-
ment of cauliflowers, about
1000 dozen, left Fremantle for
Singapore in 1936. The trade
was interrupted by the war, bul
has picked-up rapidly since
then. This year, 60,000 dozen
had been sent by the beginning
of June, and at least a dozen
growers in the Perth metro-
politan area are now cultivating
cauliflowers solely for export.
The season commences in the
first week of April and con-
tinues until October. Seven
varieties of cauliflower, each
peculiar to the time of the year,
are grown so that a continuous
su PPty can be maintained. In
harvesting, the hearts of the
cauliflowers are cut from the
leaves, wrapped for export in
greaseproof paper, and packed,
a dozen to the box, in white
pine boxes, the individual
cauliflowers being separated by
“wood wool.” No leaves are
exported.
Cauliflowers and other vege-
tables make the eight-day
voyage to Singapore in the
refrigeration-chambers of ships
which leave Fremantle approxi-
mately every five days. Indi-
vidual growers and others who
have, at various times, accom-
panied the consignments to
Singapore have been unani-
mous in reporting that all
vegetables exported reach the
Singapore market in excellent
condition and have sold
quickly. The fact that regular
prices have been maintained
over the past five years, and
the quick sales of all consign-
ments, suggest that Singapore
buyers are keen to get
Westralian vegetables. Pip
Tok (W.A.).
Income-tax Deductions
It is an anomaly that
donations to district ambu-
lances are not permissible
deductions for income-tax pur-
poses. Surely they are as
deserving a cause as hospitals,
charities, war-memorials, relief-
funds, etc.
Even the ambulance-fee for
taking to hospital is not
deductible, though it is as
much part of the cost of being
ill as the doctor’s, hospital’s and
chemist’s bills. There is, how-
ever, a point here: if the
hospital will pay for the ambu-
lance, subsequently adding it
to your account, then you can
claim the lot as a deduction.
There are other anomalies.
If you are mortally ill, such of
the medical costs as are paid
before your demise are deduc-
tions from the income of your
estate; those paid after death
are not. Again, if a dependant
of yours dies, you may claim
up to £3O deduction for burial
expenses ; but when you die,
neither your estate nor your
widow appears to be able to
claim.— Thinkit (N.S.W.).
Money for Roads
The idea of “Fragmos”
(B. 29/5/’57) that a “main-
roads rate” should be imposed
on unimproved-land values is
a step in the right direction,
but it is only right that
"I'm not concerned about money, sir , but I was
Wondering if I might be promoted to a desk with a
view of the harbor?"
Government and semi-govern-
ment bodies should be liable
for the same rates, otherwise
the scheme would fall through.
But that is not enough.
Petrol-tax should be completely
abolished and replaced by flat-
rate road-licence fees, as in
Britain. In other words, every
car would pay, say, £l2 a
year (it is £lO in Britain) irre-
spective of the weight and
horsepower of the cars. This
would materially lower trans-
port- and production-costs.
The present system is most
unjust. In my heavy car I
drive about 2000 miles a year
on a registration-fee of £2O.
Another motorist with a small
car pays one-third the registra-
tion and does 50,000 miles. I
drive 100 miles for £1 ; the
other motorist 750 miles for the
same amount. The logical
thing is to have a standard flat-
rate.
As far as petrol-tax goes, he
gets the thick end of the stick
again. Doing three times the
mileage per gallon he only pays
one-third the petrol-tax per
mile. A straightout flat licence-
fee would by no means end
such an injustice, but it would
put everybody on an equal
footing insofar as all would be
entitled to the same distance-
travel for the same tax.
Petrol-tax is unjust for still
another reason. Although levied
for road-funds, it is not only
levied from road - users.
Milking - machines, lighting
plants, tractors and stationar
engines of all types use petro ,
and where is the justice in tax
ing such users for funds fo
road-work? —J. J. A. (Vic.).
*‘Nothing in Writing”
I notice there’s a plan to giv
Commonwealth departmenta
clerks a special course in writing
letters, particularly in th
drafting of replies to people
who want to know things.
Whether the course is to
follow Parliamentary practice
is not mentioned. “Hansard,’
for instance, shows that Casey
requires 500 words to reply to
a short question in the House
while both the P.M.G. and the
Minister for Trade stand ou
for their circumlocution in
answering simple questions
Answers in writing have to be
carefully worded and diplo-
matically framed, of course, in
order not to give anything
away, or make admissions thai;
might involve the particular
department concerned.
That is probably the reason
why in at least one State it is
now difficult to obtain a direct
answer to an inquiry when
writing to a certain depart-
mental head. On the score of
saving expense the letter is
passed on to a district inspector,
who holds it up until he next
visits the writer’s neighbor-
hood. There he hands out a
verbal reply to a local official:
“Tell Blank the next time you
see him. . .”
Blank, either in private
capacity or as secretary of
some organisation, gets an
answer, satisfactory or other-
wise, and, after a while,
probably wonders why he
hasn't had. a letter. The point
is that there is thus no officially
typed and signed letter to be
produced at a meeting as proof
of departmental attitude. It’s
quite an effective method of
avoiding challenging situations
when “there’s nothing in
writing.”— O’Johnno (Tas.).
Polish Posters
Visitors to the National
Gallery in Melbourne, before
they entered the main section
of that treasury of art, had to
pass through a gallery devoted
to the .arts and crafts of the
South Sea Islanders —offensive


Largest Australian Coy.
Conducting all classes of
FIRE
MARINE AND
ACCIDENT
INSURANCES
Queensland Insurance
Co. Ltd.
Head Office:
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches and Agencies throughout
the World.
and defensive weapons,
warriors' headdresses and so
forth.
Although many of these were
just as beautifully carved and
decorated as medieval cannon,
they were considered an in-
appropriate introduction to a
temple devoted to the arts of
peace and were replaced by
Chinese, Indian and Japanese
sculpture, Buddhas, Boddhi-
satvas, Kuanyins and suchlike.
These, too, were lovely
objects, with just as much of
Nature’s accent as Rembrandt’s
pictures, but for reasons best
known to the trustees they have
lately been obliterated behind a
display of Polish posters. Again
for reasons best known to
themselves, the critics of the
dailies have been raving about
“First try and tempt them with a partnership.”
these, though they are no
worse and no better than local
products of the same genus,
being just as crude, garish,
blatant and false in form, tone
and color as the examples
which disfigure Melbourne’s
hoardings.
The most that can be said
about them is that they no
doubt did as good a job as the
local product in bringing the
attention of the Polish public
to the alleged virtues of a tooth-
paste, a tourist-resort or a
theatrical performance by the
violence of their language, but,
from any serious artistic view-
point, they are as worthless as
some of the Gallery’s recent
purchases of contemporary
paintings, which, in their artistic
incompetence, they very much
resemble. They are more out of
place in a temple of the Muses
than a strip-tease act in a
cathedral.—M. G. S. (Vic.).
Commonwealth Shipping
Six months ago the only
foreign-going Australian ship
was the intercolonial liner
Wanganella and Australian
ship - building languished
through lack of orders. Now,
as a direct result of the
establishment of the Coastal
Shipping Commission, several
ships are trading to the Far
East, and private shipowners
are replacing their ageing fleets.
The Coastal Shipping Com-
mission was established about a
year ago, after the Govern-
ment’s failure to find a suitable
buyer for the Commonwealth
Shipping Line. It was the
result of an agreement between
shipowners and the Govern-
ment.
It has taken over control of
the Commonwealth line from
the Australian Shipping Board.
Overall profits will cover losses
cn uneconomic trades to
guarantee all coastal services. If
private companies fail to build
coastal ships the commission
will do so. It will also specify
the proportion of orders that
must go to keep the Australian
shipbuilding industry going.
Among the snags attached to
the sale of the Commonwealth
line were the 13 uneconomic
“River” steamers. Built during
the war, they are coalburners
and not suited to coastwise
general-cargo handling. Five
of them are now taking barley
to the Far East. Return-
cargoes of phosphate from
Nauru or Christmas Island may
enable them to compete with
more economic rivals.
Ten-thousand-ton “Lake”-
class bulk-carriers are also
being chartered to take New-
castle coal to Japan. They will
bring back bauxite for Bell
Bay from Bintan in Malaya.
If the experiment succeeds Aus-
tralian yards may secure orders
for carriers specially designed
for the Far Eastern trade.
Meantime coastal ship-
owtiers have ordered new ton-
nage to bring their fleets up to
economic efficiency. Look-
out (N.S.W.).
Road-hogs
At Ballarat (Vic.) General
Sessions an appeal by a 31-
year-old Latvian migrant
against a driving conviction
and sentence of imprisonment
was dismissed, the appeal
judge describing the appellant
as “a road-hog who had driven
with reckless, irresponsible dis-
regard for the safety of other
people.”
Evidence was given that he
had been involved in an acci-
dent on the Western Highway,
having emerged from the back
of a line of cars, travelled on
the wrong side of the road, and
crashed into an approaching
vehicle. He had been subse-
quently convicted and sen-
tenced to six month s’
imprisonment, cancellation of
his driving-licence and dis-
qualification for five years
from obtaining a licence.
The appeal judge described
the driver’s history as “alarm-
ing,” and alarming it is to the
average cautious motorist to
realise that this man’s history
is by no means unusual, and
that there are many drivers on
our roads who have been
cautioned and fined repeatedly
for driving offences, but are
still permitted to make motor-
ing hazardous for others. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Immigration
Was Immigration Minister
Holt being frank when he wel-
comed a Yorkshire girl as our
“millionth” post-war migrant?
A few disinterested back-
room boys have even worked
out elementary sums from
official population figures
supplied by the Common-
wealth Statistician’s office:
Australia’s population in 1946
was 7,517,981 ; in 1956 it was
9,533,334. In the decade the
natural population - increase
(births over deaths) was
1,255,925. According to those
figures the number of migrants
would be 759,428, or 240,572
short of the million, and that’s
giving the department a year’s
grace.
Immigration officials say this
is not the ABC of counting
migrants. The Statistician's
figures are lessened by the
large numbers of Australians


who leave for overseas for a
year or more and the odd
migrant who returns dissatis-
fied to his homeland. But then
again, the figure is increased
by the large number of over-
seas visitors who come here
for a year or more ; they are
counted in the population. The
Statistician is not buying into
the argument and the problem
is assuming algebraic propor-
tions to the casual bystander.
There is also the tricky ques-
tion of how many British
migrants are really among the
new settlers. At present the
British quota includes new
settlers from Britain itself,
Anglo-Saxon new settlers from
other British countries, Aus-
tralians returning after having
been overseas for a year or
more, British businessmen
coming to Australia for a year
or more then returning home,
non-Anglo-Saxon new settlers
from Commonwealth countries
such as Malta and Cyprus, and,
last but not least, Asian
students from Commonwealth
countries such as Pakistan,
Singapore and Ceylon and
who are of British nationality
but stay only temporarily.—
Lobby (A.C.T.).
Fares and Taxation
It seems to me that fares to
and from work should be
allowable deductions from
income for taxation purposes,
and, in fact, they are allowed
in some cases.
A doctor who lives in a
Sydney suburb and practises
in Macquarie-street is allowed
his cost of travelling from the
suburb to the city as a deduc-
tion. A legal friend claims and
is allowed his cost of convey-
ance (own car) from his home
to his office in an outlying
suburb. A shearer has always
been allowed his cost of travel
between sheds as a deduction
from income—he’s even allowed
the cost of going to his first
shed if he is engaged by the
actual owner, and not by an
agent of the owner (in that
case the engagement is deemed
to have been made on the
property).
If a shearer can claim his
fares (and rightly so, as his
occupation necessitates hi s
going from place to place) why
can’t a builder’s laborer or a
bricky also claim fares? Their
occupations also require them
to move from place to place to
earn their wages.
A wallah in the Taxation
Department told me that, in
his opinion, fares spent in earn-
ing income are allowable
deductions, but are not allowed
as a matter of policy because
of the difficulty in assessing the
actual and necessary fares.
Could a man live in Bathurst
and fly to Sydney each day to
business and claim plane-
fares? Or could a man work-
ing in Sydney and living at
Strathfield eleet whether he
would travel by train (with an
annual ticket) or by bus (where
annual tickets are not issued)
and claim daily fares? And
who would be able to say by
which mode he actually
travelled?
Injustice is undoubtedly
caused by non-allowance of
fares spent in earning income.
Take the case of two men
living in the same street in a
city suburb, following the same
occupation, and earning the
same wage. One is employed
“Henry!”
locally and the other has to
travel to the far side of the
city each day, spending a quid
a week on fares. The man
employed locally is £1 a week
better off in actual income but
pays the same tax.
Then take the case of a
Government employee—say, a
police-officer. He is transferred
from the country to the city
and is lucky enough to find
a house close to his new station.
Fares will be very low. After
a year or so he is transferred
willy-nilly to a station 25 miles
away on the other side of the
city. In most cases he has no
chance of finding another
house and is at once anything
up to £2 a week out of pocket
—i.e., his income is reduced by
that much. But he still pays the
same tax.
Quod est absurdwn, as
Euclid used to say.— Fell
Maken (N.S.W.).
Why all the fuss about
whether the taxpayer is entitled
to claim fares to and from
work as an allowable deduction
for income tax? And why
only now?
The N.S.W. Taxpayers’
Association has forced its
honorary president to resign
following his advice to tax-
payers to include fares in their
tax-returns for the financial
year just ended. Reading
between the lines it appears that
the association is annoyed at
Mr. Sindel not for suggesting
that fares should be a deduc-
tion, but for placing a number
of leading Sydney tax-agents
(members of the association) in
the invidious role of trouble-
makers.
Tax-agents, to a great extent,
rely on the benevolence and
goodwill of the Commissioner
for Taxation for their liveli-
hood. And nothing could be
more embarrassing to them
collectively than a call to all
taxpayers inviting them to
clutter-up their returns with
fares-claims which the Taxation
Department and Taxation
Boards of Review have
adamantly refused to consider.
Mr. Sindel was a marked
man as soon as Taxation
Commissioner McGovern
warned that concerted action on
fares would prevent the speedy
assessment of income - tax
returns, which has, over the last
few years, enabled thousands
of taxpayers to get rebates
from the department before
Christmas. It’s irrelevant
whether or not Mr. McGovern
was being threatening.
But what must be fascinating
most taxpayers are the two
least-canvassed issues of all:
does any other British country,
or anywhere else for that
matter, regard fares as an
allowable deduction, and why
has this question become so all-
important this year? Why
didn’t the Taxpayers’ Associ-
ation offer to challenge this in
the High Court years ago? We
were all paying fares then.
Was it because the Taxation
Department, if forced to con-
cede on the fares, would close
other loopholes through which
those “in the know” manage to
claim deductions? Or because
the Government might be
persuaded lo increase taxation
to recoup its losses?
Let’s say that two-million of
the three-million-odd wage- and
salary-earners travel to work.
Their average outlay on fares
to and from work for a week
might be 10s.---a most con-
servative figure. That’s
roughly £2O a year and a grand
total of £4O million taxable
income.—G. K. (A.C.T.).


National Life Assurance
When this question crops up
again—as assuredly it will
several life-assurance concerns
will lose hundreds of sup-
porters in the persons of former
agents.
These agents, often firms
of influence, helped the com-
panies amass their business.
Premiums were paid to the
agents, and the amounts
remitted to the head-office, the
agents receiving a small com-
mission for the service.
Now the companies have in-
structed the policyholders to
send their premiums direct to
head-office, thus bypassing the
agents. The personal touch is
thus lost and the business
centralised in the big cities.—
Wimmera (Vic.).
Smoking and Illness
One of the dilemmas facing
all Governments, as a result of
the irrefutable medical findings
of the association between
smoking (especially of ciga-
rettes) and various types of ill-
ness, is whether to seek to
restrict smoking by compulsory
action, as in the case of
dangerous drugs. Another is
the prospective loss of sub-
stantial revenue from duty and
excise if smoking is limited.
A third is the fact that a large
portion of hospital costs now
and in the future will be
associated with illnesses
brought on by smoking.
Should all taxpayers, includ-
ing non-smokers, have to con-
tribute towards these hospital
costs? It seems hardly fair,
at least in the future, when
smokers will be conscious that
their diseases are self-inflicted.
Surely one of the best means
of checking the smoking habit
and at the same time of ensur-
ing that smokers contribute to
their own treatment would be
to double or treble the present
excise charges. The resultant
revenue might be earmarked
for special hospital and other
treatment to cure or even
prevent cigarette - induced
disease, and perhaps into
research designed to reduce
or eliminate the causes in
cigarettes.
The big tobacco concerns are
spending something on
research, but a lot more on
public - relations campaigns.
These campaigns, in dubious
taste, suggest that all kinds of
other factors are more respon-
sible for lung-cancer, including
smog and the fumes of motor-
vehicles, and also that “filters”
and the removal of certain
elements from tobacco will at
once produce a danger-free
cigarette.
The real tasks should include
advocacy of moderation (as the
whisky group does in the
United States but has never
tried in Australia), and assis-
tance of the official campaigns
designed to dissuade young
people from ever starting to
smoke. The tobacco com-
panies must know in their
hearts that their products con-
tribute nothing of constructive
value to the community except
the alleged “tranquillising”
effect of smoking. Instead of
cash and bonuses, the com-
panies should start to prepare
their own employees and share-
holders, and the comparatively
small number of tobacco-
growers in Australia, for the
day when the industry will
have disappeared in smoke. —
Well-cured (N.S.W.).
Why Communists Desert
“E. & 0.E.” and “Kemar”
(B. 19/6/’57) wonder why
Communists desert the cause.
A Russian Red never leaves
home because there is no
other home for him. In Aus-
tralia and other countries
things are different —he has a
choice. To understand why
the Comrades lose their
numbers whenever their
spiritual leaders get too coarse
to swallow, one has to under-
stand their recruiting methods.
Men are divided roughly
into three classes: (a) with an
opinion of their own, ( b ) prob-
ing for an opinion, and (c)
those who will never have an
opinion. Comrades on the
job are all the time watching
the new men and soon have
them classified. It is not a
very hard task.
Group (a) is definitely an
enemy and must be fought,
generally by a whispering cam-
paign. Group (c) is handy to
make up the numbers —they
will listen and cheer at the
right time.
Group ( b ) is their main
objective. Take a young man,
preferably of a quiet nature,
a bit of a reader and one who
asks questions. He is cultivated,
given the correct type of
literature and generally told
how important he is. His help
is wanted in establishing the
peace of the world, in prevent-
ing the waste of money on
defence (which could be better
spent on the downtrodden
masses, etc.). He is taken to the
local meetings, invited to the
homes of the members, and his
emotions are played on—“a
young man who is not a
Socialist has no heart.” His
ego expands and it is not long
before he is a fully fledged
member.
The real weakness in this
kind of recruit is that most of
them are still seeking a real
basis for an opinion. When
events (it does not need a
Hungary) happen which defy
explanation, the doubt becomes
a certainty and there is a
marked exodus. The real
zealot can swallow the whale,
but the other —well, “he who
is a Socialist in maturity has
no head.”—E. G. K. (N.S.W.).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 443
Across
I—McCrim1 —McCrim like blood. (7)
4—Doesn’t stop blocking the river plum child with his
mother. (6)
8— Race the sowings of wild young men on the council. (6)
9 Distances to one Roman and one English Irishman. (8)
11 — Nora’s disorderly crime. (5)
12— Subject has a leg broken by a foundation garment. (7)
15—Italian night-club freed from a German boy. (7)
17 —Flora includes this seating
arrangement. (7)
19— An assassin of Caesar who paints
a purge? (7)
20— Crook dwelling at home. (7)
21 — Who fires one Grand National
asset of Clara Bow and Queen
Elizabeth? (7)
23 —Plagiarises a lot of bones where
babies lie. (5)
25 —Swinburne gives a suitable name
for a colt whose sire is 27-across
and whose dam is 12-across. (8)
27 — Blushing basis for denture
eucalyptus. (6)
28 — One boy versus another on the
end. (6)
29 — The shoemaker’s patron, the
alderman and I join the revolu-
tion. (7)
Down
1 — Chick’s father at a grain basilisk.
GO)
2 Cromwell's army presses time for
Caesar’s murder. (9)
3 A chair with an impressed
cushion has been fabric. (5)
4 Performing dog holds in. (5)
5 Gippsland town. (3)
6 Maria Louise de la Ramee, or
how she pronounced her own
second name in early childhood.
(5)
7 Put up here in-the North. (3)
10 —Red Indian prosecutor in
America to knock out thanks. (6)
f3 —Commonplace slogan of the anti-
Jolsonists. (5)
14 —Famous French Socialist dwelling
in its mansion. (5-5)
16 — Taken in hand by the bridesmaid
express. (5)
17— Administer 27-aoro.ss on leave. (6)
18— Forming in the air when preparing
to fight. (7, 2)
21 — Nook. (5)
22 — North shattered the prickle. (5)
23 — This makes the middle note her
letter with a dot dear to the
French. (5)
24 — Beside holding a hound’s expres-
sion, a horse sheet of water is a
tree. (3)
26 —It breaks a duck chicken farm. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 442


DINGO
DESTRUCTION
No. 14 “ONEIDA”
JUMP TRAP
Jaws
own >4
m
2i»>.
Outstanding 1 effieieney as Dingo
catclicr, well established in sheep
lands cl' Queens la ml for over forty
years.
Further particulars from.
R. J. MURPHY
Box 555, (J.P.0., Townsville, (}.
Sole agent for Australia.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MASTITIS
TyURYFARMERS have
*** been using the various anti-
biotics to fight mastitis for 10
years or more. So far the
results haven’t justified the high
hopes at the beginning.
Penicillin was the first to
come on the market. It was
sold as a powder, which was
mixed with sterile water and
mfused into the udder. The
results were spectacular.
Penicillin was miles ahead of
the older forms of treatment,
such as vaccines, liniments, or
udder-irrigants.
Streptomycin and aureo-
mycin followed, and to relieve
pain, a local-anaesthetic, pro-
caine, was added.
The druggists put up these
drugs in a more convenient
form. Instead of marketing
them as powders, they dis-
pensed them as suspensions
packed in small tubes. This
cut out messing about with
so-called sterile solutions,
which weren’t sterile in 90 per
cent, of the cases.
All the farmer has to do now
is unscrew the cap from a tube
A speaker recently
described Australia’s
potential lor in-
creased primary pro-
duction as “almost
staggerin g.” In
amplifying this state-
ment the speaker
stated that, amongst'
other potentials, Aus-
tralia could in time
carry 250 million
sheep! Should Aus-
tralia’s sheep popula-
tion reach such astro-
nomical figures the
grazier of the future
would find, as does
the grazier of today,
that one of his
greatest allies in pro-
v i d i n g protection
against disease when
marking and tailing
his lambs are Elas-
trator Rubber Rings.
They avoid causing
open wounds which
invite infection by
disease germs.
with a long, fine neck. This
neck is inserted into the cow's
teat and the drug is squeezed
up into the udder. It’s a simple
method that takes little time
and cuts out most of the risk
of contamination;
There can be no doubt of the
value of these antibiotics. But
now dairy-experts are wonder-
ing if the farmer doesn’t rely
too much on them.
Walk into any dairy and
notice the empty penicillin-
tubes lying around. This will
give some idea of what it’s
costing to treat the disease. The
bill for the entire industry over
a period of 12 months must
be staggering.
The general opinion seems
to be that shed-hygiene has
been neglected and too much
ieft to the drugs. Although
cleanliness won’t eliminate the
disease entirely, it will greatly
reduce the number of cases.
These can still be treated with
the antibiotics.
There are many points in
favor of adopting a programme
of shed-hygiene. Here are
three. Firstly, the drugs are
expensive in the long run,
whereas cleanliness costs little.
Secondly, no matter how
quickly the drugs clean-up the
mastitis, some injury to the
udder must result. This reduces
the amount of milk the udder
will secrete.
Thirdly, once the disease
appears in the shed, it may
spread before it can be
checked. Thus many cows may
finish-up with the disease as it
is spread from cow to cow.
When penicillin first came on
the market, farmers were
educated in the use of the
strip-cup; dipping the teat-
cups ; the use of chlorine ; and
other aspects of good shed-
management.
The strip-cup is used less and
less now, as the farmer depends
more and more on the drugs.
This is false economy, because
prevention is always better then
cure.
It's little wonder, then, that
dairy-experts are advising more
attention to shed-hygiene. Here
are some of the standard
recommendations:
Wash the udders and teats
in a sterilising solution such as
one of the hypochlorites.
Use the strip-cup to examine
those few squirts of milk from
each teat.
Milk all suspected cows last
and by hand.
Dip the teat-cups in a
sterilising solution between each
“These ants must have migrated from Sydney .”
cow, if the disease is in the
herd. This helps to stop it from
spreading from cow to cow.
Use the antibiotics as a cure
as soon as possible.
This plan aims at two things,
prevention and cure.
The work of Whittlestone, in
New Zealand, and Petersen, in
America, has shown that faulty
milking-machines can help to
cause the trouble. Milking on
a high vacuum, leaving the
machines on too long, allowing
the teat-cups to creep up the
udder when the cow is nearly
milked-out, are only three ways
of damaging the soft udder-
tissue and making it easier for
the germs to gain a footing.
Any plan to combat mastitis
must involve a check on the
milking-machines. These sug-
gestions may help. Milk on a
vacuum not exceeding 15in.
Have the vacuum - gauge
checked to make sure it is tell-
ing the truth.
Make sure the rubbers are in
good nick. Cracked rubbers or
inflations harbor germs that are
difficult to remove.
When milking, always take
off the teat-cups as soon as the
flow of milk has ceased.
Strip by machine, not by
hand. The less you handle the
udder, . the less chance of
spreading the disease.
Bear down gently on the
teat-cups to stop them from
crawling up the udder When
the cow is milking-out.
If the cow has let-down the
milk before the machines are
put on, she should milk, out in
jess than five minutes. This
rapid and clean milking is one
way to check mastitis. The
longer the machines drag on the
empty udder, the more harm
they do.
A lot more attention needs
to be given to machine-
management and shed-hygiene.
The wonder-drugs are well


RUSSIAN COMFREY
(Symphytun Peregrinum)
Webster Strain
This valuable plant which cuts up to
100 tons of green fodder per acre per
annum and which by its deep rooting
system is not greatly affected by
droughts, is good for all types of stock,
poultry, human consumption and for
composting.
It is now available for spring planting
at the following reduced prices:
OFFSETS: 2/6 each, £1 for 12.
ROOTLETS: £3 p. 50, £5 p. 100, £2O
p. 500, £35 p. 1000, £5O. p. 2000.
(N.Z. Currency.)
The first cost is the last cost, as the
plant is a perennial. A paper on its
cultivation will be sent with all orders
upon request. The Australian Govt, will
issue a permit to import plants from:
J. M. KING, 91 Shearman Street,
Waimate, New Zealand
• WOOL-STOCK
• INSURANCE
MERCHANDISE
• TRAVEL
• FINANCE
tfoic CMC
2
w
M
j:-x
1
W
W
named, but they are not the
whole answer. On top of that,
they are expensive. They can
cause trouble if not used
properly. Many slow vats of
cheese are thought to be caused
by penicillin in the milk. If
these drugs are used, the milk
shouldn’t be drunk or sent to
the factory until the cow has
fully recovered.
Agricola.
Too Much
Molybdenum
“L.R.M.”: The effects of
excess molybdenum (B.
5/6/’57) have long been known
in the Old Dart. There are
two strips of country—a small
one in Staffordshire and a
larger area in Somerset —where
an excess of this mineral
occurs naturally.
In these parts cattle grow
well up to six months of age,
but after that they cease to
thrive. The locals call the
condition, one of the symptoms
of which is excess scouring,
“teart.” Goats and sheep are
not so much affected —in
“teart” country I have heard
of people keeping goats instead
of cows for the household
milk-supply.
Even during the war years
of strict stock-food rationing,
farmers in these areas could
claim an additional allowance
of a protein cattle-food called
“anti-teart” cake.
"Value of Silage"
“J.J.A.”: Tell K. G.
Schoeffel to check his facts
before slinging-off at farmers
who “keep piling-up, in expen-
sive shedding, baled hay with a
protein food-value slightly
higher than cardboard” (B.
12/6/’57).
K.G.S. quotes silage-weight,
including water, and the
protein-value of the silage on a
“dry-matter” basis. But he
paid the contractor for harvest-
ing the raw material, water and
all. For every ton of dry-matter
feed he has conserved three
tons of water at 15s. per ton,
so his actual “wet-matter”
fodder has a protein-value of
about 5 per cent, (compared
with the 10 per cent, of hay).
On the cost side, hay can be
baled for £3 a ton (K.G.S.
guesses at £4 15s.), which is
equivalent to four tons of
silage at 15s. a ton. So the
actual cost for conservation, on
a dry-matter basis, is £3 a ton
for hay and £3 a ton for silage.
For conserving water, we find
dams cheaper than silage.
As for expensive iheds, that’s
a laugh. Silage can be put in
expensive concrete silos, or in
stacks covered with plastic-
sheeting. Hay can be put in
concrete sheds, or in stacks
covered with sisalkraft (10s. per
100 sq. ft.). That cost depends
on the farmer. As for feeding-
out, baled hay may have a
slight advantage.
With the same pasture, the
cost, and food-value, is about
the same whether it is turned
into hay or silage. Done well,
the conserved fodder has
retained almost all the food-
value. With silage, the water-
content must be conserved, too,
but the weather is not such a
worry. With hay, drying can
be a problem, and baling is the
greatest expense. However, hay
is now being made from
shredded or chopped pasture
and put in stacks by fork-lifts,
cutting the costs to less than
10s. a ton. Cost of protecting
either silage or hay is about the
same.
The relative value of hay and
silage is not a matter of cost,
but of other considerations. If
the fodder is to be fed in
winter, hay is best because it is
a dry feed ; if in summer, then
silage. Again, many farmers
can’t get on their ground early
enough to make silage. For
them, it is hay. With a wet
spring, silage is the order. For
myself, I’d make silage when
I could, then turn the rest into
hay.
Jersey Record
“Mossie”: Here in New
Zealand a pedigree Jersey cow,
Maori Blush, now in her 20th
year, has notched a new world-
record —87931 b. of butterfat
from 159,4801 b. of milk.
Hitherto the record was held
by another Taranaki cow,
Sproston Tulip, 87611 b. butter-
fat out of 150,5091 b. of milk
by the time she was 21. With
butterfat at 36d. a lb., these
two cows, together, would have
produced £2633, without
counting skim-milk and the
value of their progeny.
Nice to have a herd of them.
Failing Queens
“B-herd”: It is practically
an impossibility for an amateur
beekeeper, fussing over his five
colonies, to snip off the head
of a failing queen. He observes
her in all her glory, battling
over the combs, setting-down a
dozen worker-cells in this
corner and a thousand drones
in the other, never actually
establishing herself in the
second super, and she goes un-
questioned.
A good deal of this mis-
placed respect for the queen is
carried over to the colonies of
the commercial men, who tote
more old ladies round the
countryside than is realised.
It is not a matter of sentiment
with the commercial man. He
knows the queen has long since
served her time, but as he
picks her from the comb
several unpleasant facts come
into his mind.
First, is there sufficient good
pollen and nectar coming in
at this moment to ensure a good
daughter? Second, will the
bees rush to and build a dozen
small cells not worth keeping
warm? Third, will the virgin
get back to the hive unmolested,
or will she fail in this prime
hazard and thus leave the hive
to die?
Fourth, there must be a
delay of from 24 to 30-odd
days before the young queen
takes over where the old one
leaves off, and that is going to
show up mightily in the next
robbing. The colony may be
poor now, he reasons, but what
will it be like on the next
round?
He drops the old girl back
on the frames and goes on to
the next colony. If such were


¥
WUNDERLICH SINKS
> ' ' ' "Jt ****'/,
:6Mtshines them all
‘''/////MIVVXVW
warn
The
NEW
C 3
SINKS
STAINLESS
STEEL
us 2
SEE THEM AT YOUR HARDWARE STORE
The brilliant MEW rang* of Wunderlich
Stainless Steel Sinks combines every modern
improvement in sink design. Glistening
high-shine finish, inbuilt quick-drainaga
falls in bowk and drainers, anti-spilt
heading an ail sides, and one-piece
practical size round cornered bowls. Avail-
able with timber backing far aasy fixing
over new or old cupboarding ar unbacked.
If required. See the MEW Wunderlich Sinks
of your hardware store, Phone MX 2411, or
writ# fa Wunderlich ltd., Box 474, 6.P.0.,
Sydney, far illustrated price list.
not the case hives on a honey-
flow failing to whiten-up the
top supers would be very hard
to find. As it is they dot the
apiaries all over the place.
Tlie successful man the
man who won’t carry a colony
round for the pleasure of it—
gets over the problem this way.
He observes the brooding
whilst robbing; it's second-
nature to do so. He notes the
spotted, sealed cells among the
new honey, the preference for
the stretched cells, the lack of
rhythm in the queen’s brood-
nest, even before the lack of
field force or the empty supers
tell him the story. He marks
the colony: Requeen.
There may be a dozen of
them. Next week, he returns
with a dozen “nukes” on the
back of the wagon. He has a
hundred of them, young queens
reared on a picked flow at a
fancied time, well-established
on three sheets of brood and
ready to expand with all the
zing that a young queen
possesses. He seeks out the old
queen, nips her head, then,
over a sheet of newspaper,
unites the “nuke” to the colony.
That hive, on the next round,
will make him rich.
There is, too, another way.
From some favored queen-
breeder, the bee-herd orders
his 100 or 500 queens, and at
a certain time, every 18 months
or two years, goes right through
his yards on a queen-killing
orgy.
Here, certain factors obtrude
themselves. Queens, at present
rates, cost 15s. and upwards.
Their rearing is beyond the
control of the bee-herd. Were
they reared under good con-
ditions so that their perform-
ance will be top-rate, or not?
Will this queen of this fine
colony, the one 1 am about to
replace with this untried queen,
be a much better performer
than, its replacement? And so
on.
By and large, the industry
doesn't make much use of the
services of the queen-breeders;
a comparative handful serve the
Commonwealth. But it isn't
because the bee-herders think
they can do without the queens.
Possibly, there isn’t one
commercial stand in the land
that couldn’t use a hundred
any tick of the clock. What-
ever the individual choice of
beekeepers, a great number
of failing and ancient queens
are sure to be marked down to
get the axe . . . some other
time.
Rice-growing
“X.Y.Z.”: “M.l.A.’s” com-
ments (B. 19/6/’57) on the
future of rice-growing in the
Northern Territory raises some
interesting points. A few years
ago 1 rode or walked over the
ffootl-plains of the Adelaide
and Margaret Rivers. Then 1
sat down and methodically read
through all the reports made
by that wonderful agriculturist
Nicholas Holtze, whose name
is still remembered by a few
old hands in the Territory.
Later, I visited the Ord and
Fitzroy Rivers. While in the
Territory 1 made a point of
meeting a number of Chinese,
sons ol former rice-growers,
and discussed the matter with
them. Having worked for some
years in a portion of the
Riverina where rice-growing
jis important, I wanted to form
my own opinion of the
economics of the problem. 1
ended by being firmly con-
vinced that rice could be more
economically produced on the
Ade'aide River and on the
Ord than in any other part
of Australia.
1 based that opinion on the
following reasons:
The enormous areas of suit-
able land —rice likes a very
heavy clay loam, and there is
more of it on the Ord and
Adelaide than in any other part
of Australia.
Rice requires ample water (I
believe it takes the equivalent
of 35in. to mature a crop) and
the natural flooding of the
Adalaide River plains and a
70in. fall is ideal. The Ord
does not receive nearly as much,
but has a larger watershed and
irrigation is quite practicable.
The land on both rivers is
almost ready for the plough,
hardly any clearing being
needed. Compared with the
prices paid for suitable land
in Riverina, the prime cost is
negligible. On the Adelaide
there will be no charges for
water, an important item with
many N. S. Wales rice-growers.
The climate is ideal for rice-
growing. I know geese are a
problem at present, so far as
the Territory is concerned, but
closer-settlement will soon
clean them up.
But it is the national aspect
that makes the strongest appeal
to me. The few statesmen we
have (men like Sir Earle Page)
are continually hammering
into the national consciousness
the need for settling an empty
North. Only a farming popu-
lation will- ever permanently
seitle North Australia and
those farmers will not go there
unless they can be assured of
markets for their crops. To
attract them, the North must be
able to produce crops which
will stand long transport.
Fruit and vegetables are
ruled out, unless canning-works
are simultaneously established,
and even then there is not the
potential market that there is
for rice, the staple diet of
nearly a third of the human
race.
Looking at the whole
problem from a national point
of view, 1 believe that it would
pay Australia to transfer the
whole rice-growing industry
from N. S. Wales to the
Territory and n.-w Australia.
That would enable better use
to be made of the irrigation-
water now used by rice-growers
in the Riverina.
In 10 years’ time we will
find it difficult to feed the
populations of Victoria and
N. S. Wales, and the water now
used for rice will be wanted
for the production of fat lambs,
vegetables and those cereals
and fruit which will not grow
in the Far North. Even the
completion of the Snowy River
WOOL SAMPLES
Actual wool samples are
attached to and classified on
“The Bulletin” Bradford
Wool Type Card. This Card
has many uses—as growers,
classers and students in most
parts of Australia have dis-
covered in particular when
snap classification has to be
made in the yards or shed,
or in the paddock, with a
type, perhaps,, outside the
main run of your experience.
There’s a big difference be-
tween knowing and guessing.
A comparison study, using
the Bradford Wool Type
Card, eliminates the possi*
bility of error. Your name
and address and a postal
note for 7/6 addressed to
“The Bulletin” will send one
on its way.


MI U §§E
o
pipe for every
purpose
Whether you need only one or two lengths of
6" pipe fQr a driveway or home drainage, or
hundreds of pipes from 4" to 72" for a complete
drainage system, Humes experts are there to
advise, assist and supply.
nn
HUMES LIMITED
43 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY. 8X4165
FACTORIES IN:
Adamstown, Grafton, Harden, Lismore,
Queanbeyan, Rydalmere, Tamworfh. H 4
scheme will not provide all the
water* that will be required.
Hcay-mulch for
Apple-trees
“Sam”: U.S. agricultural
scientists have discovered that
hay-mulch, nitrogen-enriched,
can make unhealthy apple-
trees thrifty and productive.
The tests were conducted on
trees in poor condition, on
soils low in magnesium.
The researchers concentrated
on trees growing in poorly-
drained soil which had suffered
from drowning roots for as
long as 15 years. Although
these trees had been receiv-
ing chemical fertilisers since
they were planted, they had
been underdeveloped and un-
healthy until the mulch was
applied.
Initially, hay was brought to
the orchard annually from a
paddock of orchard-grass and
fescue. This hay had been
grown without fertiliser, and
tested only 1.09 per cent, nitro-
gen. Later, part of the grass
was grown with 1001 b. per
acre of nitrogen added. This
was found to have 2.38 per
cent, nitrogen at the blossom-
ing and aftermath - cutting
stages.
Annual applications of |lb.
of this enriched air-dried grass-
hay per sq. ft. around the trees
restored their vigor.
The trees gained from the
hay-mulch in several ways.
One result was that the root-
systems were enlarged by an
estimated 25 per cent.
The enriched hay-mulch
brought noticeable growth and
better foliage-color during the
first year of application, more
marked improvement the
second year, and more out-
standing vigor and productivity
thereafter. This improvement
continued through the nine
years of treatment.
The mulch also contributed
to the trees’
hunger for magnesium in mag-
nesium-deficient soils. When
the hay was grown with mag-
nesium-fertiliser, or the mulch
was topped with magnesium-
sulphate, the tree-roots picked
the magnesium directly from
the decaying vegetable-matter,
and achieved a complete “cure”
in three years. When the
mulch was enriched with nitro-
gen, recovery was faster.
Other tests demonstrated
that a permanent cover-crop
maintains a humus supply,
which gives soil a granular
crumb-structure, thus improv-
ing drainage, aeration, water-
absorption and mineral-storage.
Poultry Records
“C.A.A.”: Profits from
keeping records on a poultry-
farm are well worth the extra
time and work. No need for an
elaborate bookkeeping system
—just a commonsense appli-
cation of the basic information.
For instance, a card in each
pen with a record of the daily
collection of eggs can show how
the pullets are laying compared
with the hens. When you have
to decide what percentage of
pullets you want in the flock,
the information is there. And,
of course, any pen laying below
the general average can be
spotted early.
Losses in various groups due
to culling or deaths can also be
accurately tabbed on cards.
With records, you can keep
a check on the percentage of
pullets raised from day-old
chicks, and, by comparison with
other years, the effects of
disease or something wrong in
management can be traced.
Comparisons of winter-
production in various years
could underline points which
make the difference between
profit and loss in any one year.
To get a true picture of
actual returns it’s necessary to
keep feed-costs and capital-
costs separate, of course. The
fact that you’re in the red
because of improvements
doesn't mean your fowls have
stopped laying.
Farm Hints
“C.A.A.”: Potash will
increase yields over a fairly
wide range of soils. Some
districts, chiefly those with light
sandy soils, have shown a pro-
duction-increase of 50 per cent.
after potash has been used,
Improved growth is most likely
in paddocks which have been
used for growing potatoes or
meadow-hay. Where you can’t
be certain of the response, try
lewt. to the acre this winter,
Trials have shown that one
dressing of potash raises yields
for four or five subsequent
years,
“Bill C.”: A cold, dry winter
ma y mean blight in the herd
an d strangles amongst the
saddle-nags. Both can be most
serious when the stock are on
dr Y f ee d. A lotion of sulpha-
nilamide, 5 per cent., and
castor-oil, will do much to clear
U P bli ght; sulpha.-powder in
honey, at the rate of 2oz.
sulpha day and loz. on
each of the next two days, is
excellent for strangles. The
sulpha, sometimes cuts the fever
quickly, and prevents the
abscess forming. However, if
swelling develops, treat it with
the old hot-poultices, and lance
and drain it when it ripens,
Sick stock should be isolated,
if possible.
REPORT FROM CROHAMHURST
(4/7/’57)
A large part of Queensland should get light to moderate,
patchy rains during August, although reasonably good rains
are likely in the central highlands, and in part of the
Maranoa and Warrego areas. Reasonably good rains should
occur in September.
N.S.W., too, should experience a month of patchy rain-
fall during August, although reasonably good rains are
likely in the central-west, Riverina and on the south-west
slopes. Fair rains should be received during September.
Good general rains in most of Victoria during August,
with the heaviest falls and the likelihood of flooding in
the northern half of the State.
Reasonably good rain in the agricultural areas of South
Australia during August, although the Murray Valley may
get only light to moderate rains. Moderate to good rain
on the west coast, but the interior confined to light rain or
showers.
In Western Australia during August good rains should
occur in the De Grey, Fortescue, Gascoyne and goldfields
areas, with general rains in the south-west agricultural areas.
LENNOX WALKER.


Women's Letters
MELBOURNE
Lifebuoys, anchors and signal-flags
decorated the Royale Ballroom for the
annual Navy League dinner-ball. The
Lieut.-Govcrnor (Sir Edmund Herring),
Lady Herring and their daughter
Margaret were guests-of-honor, and were
received by president of the ball-
committee Mrs. Arthur Laver and her
husband, and the president of the Vic-
torian division of the Navy League, Capt.
J. P. Williams, and Mrs. Williams. For
the official table the decorative motif
was blue and white with touches of gold.
Down the pale-blue cloths trailed white
camellias and white-painted ivy-leaves.
Silver candelabra held tall white candles,
and the Union Jack and the Australian
Ensign, with a tall urn of gold leaves and
violets, formed the background.
Chief of the Navy Staff Vice-Admiral
Sir Roy Dowling and Lady Dowling,
Rear-Admiral H. M. Burrell, Secretary
for the Navy Mr. T. J. Hawkins and
Mrs. Hawkins, and Capt. and Mrs. J. A.
Walsh were official guests. Lady Herring
chose a gown of black lace, her daughter
Margaret a full-length gown of cream-
and-gold brocade. Mrs. Laver’s white
pure-silk taffeta was woven with silver.
Lady Dowling’s gown of gold tulle and
atin carried beads on the bodice, and
the satin fell in two long ends over the
Lille skirt.
Committee-member Mrs. Keti Guest
wore a sheath-gown of beige guipure-
lace ; at the hem of the tight skirt at the
back was a huge bow of matching
taffeta. Mrs. Vernon Jones wore grey
organdie made over pink taffeta, and
with opalescent beads on the bodice.
Mrs. Tom Crankshaw danced in aqua-
blue silk-faille, Mrs. Fred Lawrence in
powder-blue faille.
ft ft ft
When Pamela Margaret, eldest
daughter of Air-Commodore and Mrs.
H. B. Seekamp, of Blackburn, was
married at St. Andrew’s Presbyterian
Church, Box Hill, to Dr. lan Martin she
wore a cream-tinted full-length tulle veil
with a gown of magnolia Jacqmar-
bi ocade, which had long sleeves and full-
ness at the back of the skirt. She carried
a bouquet of cream hyacinths. Her
cousin Ann Balderstone ’maided in a
frock of olive-green poult de soi, with a
half-circlet of cream hyacinths in her hair
to match her bouquet. The bridegroom,
who is the son of Mrs. Guy Bonython, of
Adelaide, and the late Mr. Eric Martin,
had Dr. Winston Rickards as best man.
Reception was held at the Canterbury
home of the bride’s aunt, Mrs. J. R.
Balderstone.
ft ft ft
Misted in white tulle, gold Cupids were
arranged in the foyer of the Royale Ball-
room when members of the St. Vincent’s
Hospital (maternity block) auxiliary
arranged a dinner-dance for the Blanket
Fund. Gold ivy trailed around the pillars,
and pink camellias clustered on the drop
of the white tablecloths. Auxiliary-presi-
dent Mrs. “Bing” Molyneux, wearing a
long, full-skirted gown of white nylon
over green - and - black - printed silk,
received with her husband the official
guests, among whom were Air-Vice-
Marshal Sir John McCauley and Lady
McCauley, Sir Richard and Lady
Williams, Rear-Admiral and Mrs. R. S.
Wellby, U.S. Consul W. Bushwaller
and Mrs. Bushwaller, U.S. Assistant
Air Force Attache Col. Co 11 a s
Harris and his wife, Mr. Justice
R. Monahan and Mrs. Monahan,
Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Buxton, the John
Dynons, Dr. and Mrs. J. Starr, and Mr.
and Mrs. P. O. Schlesinger.
Ballerina Aina Reega, who came here
from Latvia nine years ago, has been with
the Borovansky Ballet for three years and,
like her husband Arvid Fibigs, does
featured solo-roles. The pair, who recently
did a tour of four States for the Council
of Adult Education, are now naturalised
Australians. Photo by Helmut Newton.
The president (Mrs. E. L. Fitzgerald)
and members of the Toorak auxiliary of
Y.W.C.A. have arranged for a Winter
Floral Exhibit to be held at Lucknow,
20 Millicent-avenue, Toorak, on July 27
and 28 ; admittance ss. Among those
who will exhibit samples of flower-
decoration are Mrs. Peter Andrews, Mrs.
Tom Blarney, Mrs. Geoffrey Grimwade,
Mrs. Angus Jones, Mrs. George Steven-
son, Mrs. J. McClelland and Mrs. Harold
Mighell. Prior to the showing the exhibits
will be judged by Mrs. F. Hobill Cole,
Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh and Mr. Reg
Riddell.
The Mayor of Prahran is appealing for
funds to build club-rooms for both the
youth and the aged who live in this area.
Many women have offered to help, and a
most successful card-party held in the
Mayor’s suite at the Town Hall was
organised by Mrs. George Laurens, Mrs.
Flintoft-Shultz and Mrs. Mat Harrison.
Among those who attended were Lady
Knox (she and Mrs. Leo Curtis have
arranged a function to take place later in
the month), Mrs. L. H. Reichstein, Mrs.
H. G. Furnell and Mrs. Heeps.
ft * ft
Detectives were on hand to guard the
gifts of precious and semi-precious jeweiS
which were brought by guests to a
luncheon at Chevron Hotel. These gifts
were the price of admission to the
luncheon donated by Mr. Stanley
Korman, and they will be auctioned on
August 19 at Melbourne Town Hall to
assist the Florence Nightingale fund. The
offerings included a diamond-ring worth
at lea-t £lOO, an opal-ring, a string of
lovely cultured-pearls, a pair of jade-and-
onyx earrings, lockets containing minia-
tures, handsome crystal ornaments and
silver-nieces. Chairman of the Jewel and
Old Gold fund is Dame Mary Daly, who
at the luncheon received the official
guests, among whom were the Lady
Mayoress (Lady Selleck), Sir John Allison
(chairman of the Florence Nightingale
Memorial Anneal) and representatives of
the Royal College of Nursing (Australia)
and the Royal Victorian College of
Nursing. Guests who made their contri-
butions to the fund included Mrs. Sidney
Baillieu Mver, Mrs. G. T. Stevenson, Lady
Gullett, Mrs. Stanley Korrmm. Mrs. T. G.
Major. Ma'Gn-'e Le Bas de Plumetot, and
Mrs. Alec Finlay,
ft ft ft
Prior to their departure for Enelantf in
the Himalaya, Wing-Commander J.
Morgan (of the U.K. liaison staff) and
his wife were guests-of-honor at a fare-
well dinner-nartv at the Brighton home
of Group-Captain and Mrs. P. R. Beare.
D’m'ng bv mndleliaht. the guests were
Major L, F. Donnelly (U.S. Assistant Air
Force Attache) and Mrs. Donnelly;
Group-Captain and Mrs. Keith Hennock ;
Group-Captain and Mrs. T. Rose ; Com-
mander Alan Wilson ; Commander and
Mrs. P. Hicks ; and Commander and Mrs.
Hayward Butt.
ft ft ft
A preview of spring and summer
fashions, seen while outside the rain was
pelting down and the wind blowing
straight from the South Pole, showed no
particular trend, but combined the best
English, Dutch and French cottons and
excellent Australian designs. Shown by
Barclay’s Fashions, a manufacturing firm,
the fabrics used were silk, embroidered
linens and poult, and the range of very
attractive cottons.
The shirtmaker-styled frock with un-
usual collar-treatments was in the fore-
front of the styles; the sheath
frock, with matching jacket, was
in both cotton and silk. Aa


original idea was the matching hand-
bag, either in clutch-style or with straps,
carried by the mannequin as she displayed
the frock. Original, also, was the trim-
ming of a poplin frock with colored
wooden beads. An Eire-linen frock with
matching lace motifs for trimming could
be worn with or without a belt, and a
Shannon-linen Empire-line frock was
finished at the back of the skirt with fish-
tail pleats.
SYDNEY
Despite the Asian ’flu which, according
to the posters, is rife among us, .Sydney
managed to mooch along during the week.
Various ex-students’ associations held
their annual dances (the numbers of
nearly all dances have been lower all this
season, by the way), and Lieut.-General
E. W. Woodward made his first appear-
ance as Governor-Designate with Mrs.
Woodward when he received the
debutantes at the Army Ball. Mrs. Wood-
ward will be one of the guests-of-honor,
with Mrs. W. H. Harrington (wife of the
Rear-Admiral) and Mrs. A. L. Walters
(wife of the Air-Vice-Marshal), at the
at-home of the Women's Auxiliary of the
Royal Empire Society on Wednesday
next. Mr. Erik Langker will speak on
Impressions of Art and has .arranged for
an exhibition of pictures from the
National Gallery showing costumes
through the ages, which should be very
interesting indeed.
☆ ☆ ☆
Kylie Tennant, always an arresting
speaker, attracted quite a large number
(in spite of the torrential rain) to the
second Literary Luncheon in aid of the
Crippled Children’s Society. She spoke
on the Australian Novel, and pointed out
that Australian writers tend to avoid
sentiment in their books, with the result
that they often lose tenderness also, but
that, admiring courage in the face of
obstacles, they can face cruelty and
brutality gravely with a will to do some-
thing about it. Mrs. Greg Kater, Mrs.
Dundas Allen, Mrs. Roger Dunlop, Mrs.
Phyllis Burke (of the State Housing Com-
mission), Mrs. Bernard Muscio, Mrs.
Norman Plunkett and Mrs. Charmian
Gage were among those at the luncheon.
it it ft
Huge canvases cover the walls of David
Jones’ Gallery for the exhibition by
Messrs. Cobum, Gleghorn and Dicker-
son. “But who would have rooms big
enough to put them in?” asked a viewer
of one artist. “Surely you don’t
expect to sell any!” “Madame,” replied
the artist, “money is not in our thoughts
as we paint!” Mrs. Dickerson could not
come to the opening, but Mrs. Coburn
(smart in a bucket-hat of Caribbean-blue)
brought small daughter Kristin, and Mrs.
Gleghorn, looking charming in black-and-
white-speckled tweed, was also present.
There was a wonderful roll-up from the
art-world making it a very colorful
assembly. Douglas Watson (looking
“pukka” in sports-jacket and handlebar
moustache), Weaver Hawkins (readily
recognisable as an artist), Michael Kmit,
Margot Lewers, and Enid Larkin (just
returned from a tour of Japan) were a
few of those present, but there were also
numbers of art-students, enviably slim in
stovepipe-slacks and with pony-tail
hairdos, which seem to be a uniform.
# V
A “luncheon de luxe” for 12 at Ye Olde
Crusty Cellars was arranged by Miss
. Margaret Gillespie (Turramurra) in aid
of the Elizabethan Theatre Ball during the
week. The casserole-chicken in red wine
was from Phyllis Parkinson’s book (she
calls herself Harriet Goodwin as author
of How to Cook with Wine). There was
pink champagne with the fruit-salad artd
tokay with the coffee. This was the first
lunch held for charity at Ye Olde Crusty
Cellars since 1939, and was a very success-
ful occasion.
Berenice James has returned to Sydney,
after an interesting trip abroad, in time
to help organise the annual Bankers’ Ball,
for which she trains the debutantes each
year. The ball will be held at the
Trocadero on August 22, and the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital will benefit by
(he proceeds. Photo by Norton-Trevaire.
In Sydney for three days, in which she
planned to see snow, bathing, fashions,
shops, food, restaurants and beautiful
women, was Mrs. Despina (Deppy)
Messingesi, American fashion-editor.
Well, capricious as Sydney’s weather is,
we could hardly expect to be skiing one
day and surf-bathing the next!
☆ ☆ ☆
Tuesday was cheque-handing-over
day for the committees of the “Miss
Teahouse of the August Moon” contest
and ball, the Red Cross Society being the
recipient of more than £IO,OOO, the pro-
ceeds of the combined events. The
winner, Valerie Mayhew—who was snow-
bound at Kosciusko —was represented by
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. L. Mayhew.
The runner-up, Mrs. John Tarrant (who
was married early in June), was present
with her husband; Yvonne Hill, who
represented Pye-Tecnico (the donors of
the TV-set which was second-prize); and
Barbara Beaumont were the other con-
testants present. Mr. J. F. Clack, who
always has some amusing remark to
make, said when accepting the cheque:
“As one of the objects of the Red Cross
is the mitigation of suffering, I won’t talk
too long.” Other speechmakers, please
copy!
it it it
To show those who attended the open-
ing of her exhibition of Chinese art and
calligraphy just how the work is done,
Madame Cheung Tai Ka took the heavy
brush in hand and rapidly painted a
decorative scroll which, translated, read:
“What the mind wishes, the hand is ready
to do.” To the opening of the exhibition,
which is at Anthony Horderns’ Gallery
Madame Cheung Tai Ka’s daughter
Florence Pong (who goes to Brisbane a;
the end of the month with the Elizabethar
Trust’s opera-company), wore a beau
tiful Chinese-dress of blue brocaded with
butterflies. Also present at the opening
by the Lord Mayor were Mrs. Richard
Gloster (playing truant from her
sculpture-lesson) and Mrs. Ernest Lash-
mar, who is intensely interested in
Chinese art.
# V V
Film-star Elizabeth Taylor provided
most of the “quotes” of the week, follow-
ing the party her husband Mike Todd
gave for the premiere of his new film
“Around the World in 80 Days.” (He
hired a whole Fun Fair to entertain his
guests, but apparently his guests did most
of the entertaining.) The most amusing
of Liz Taylor's remarks was “Whenever
Mike admires a hat I’ve bought I go out
and buy 50 like it. That’s how much I
love him.”
v v
Two entertaining events coming up
shortly to aid the Lady Mayoress’s
Relief Fund will be the musicale at the
Town Hall on Thursday, July 25, and the
Film-and-Fashion party set down for
Thursday, August 1. This musicale,
which is organised by Mrs. W. Hope
Gibson, is always of high artistic quality,
and this year the musicians will be Olga
Krasnik (pianist), Linda Parker
(soprano), Stewart Harvey (baritone) and
Clive Amadio (saxophonist), with John
Champ as accompanist.
The Film-and-Fashion party will begin
with some interesting travel-films, and
will include a parade of spring-fashions.
Mesdames D. Adcock, M. L. Cox, A. E.
Graham, L. H. Griffiths and L. Larba-
lestier are organising this party, which,
like the musicale, will be at 2.30 p.m.
☆ ☆ ☆
Of course everyone was talking about
Lewis Hoad turning professional.
Nobody seems to blame him for
succumbing to £56,000, but the way be
did it, alleging he had no plans one day
and having the contract signed and sealed
the next, seems (for a sporting star) “Not
sporting”—that is, if reports were right!.


I don’t want Paula’s ladies to
find me here when they come
back.”
In the clothes they wore,
carrying nothing but the brief-
case of food and a few florins
in their pockets, the Lovas
family started towards Cool
Valley.
T OVAS was right—the Rus-
sians had left Cool Valley
unguarded. Through this gap
thousands of refugees were
moving.
But they were all coming to
Budapest.
They looked at Lovas and
his family in amazement.
Finally an elderly man asked,
“Where do you four think
you’re going?”
Lovas was quick with his
answer.
“To Komarom,” he said.
“We have some friends there.”
“You're mad,” the old man
said bluntly. “You’re taking
your wife and children to a
certain destruction. I know
Budapest is ablaze, but still it’s
the safest place. Return home,
hide in your cellar, come to
your senses, man!”
Lovas thanked the old man
for his advice, but elbowed his
way through the crowd that
quickly gathered around them,
leading his wife and the chil-
dren out of the condemned
city.
Rumors ran wild in the vil-
lages. Peasant-women begged
the Lovases to go into hiding,
or return to Budapest, the
“safe place.”
“The freedom-fighters are
rounding-up all able-bodied
men, pushing guns in their
hands to fight the Russkis,” one
of the informants said.
“The Russians are taking all
the women and children they
can lay their filthy hands on,
and you know why,” another
said, casting a meaningful
glance at Paula.
“I know what they do to the
women, but the children, how
about them? What good would
the children do for the Rus-
sians?” Lovas asked uneasily,
almost frightened into return-
ing to Budapest.
“They’re taking the children
to Russia to make Soviet
soldiers out of them,” came the
explanation.
On the first night they man-
aged to find shelter in a barn.
The children, exhausted from
the long march, their feet
blistered, sank into an uneasy
slumber.
“What do you think, Paula?
Should we keep on going?
These stories about the
Russians . . .”
Paula looked at her husband,
who had the appearance of a
man possessed. His eyes were
bloodshot, his hands trembled.
“They’re all rumors, dar-
ling,” she said calmly.
Strangely enough she took
strength from her husband's
weariness. She was no longer
the hysterical, bomb-happy
woman. “We haven't seen a
Russian yet. As for the
freedom-fighters, you were one
of them. We’re not traitors . ..”
“Keep quiet. Listen!” Lovas
interrupted Paula.
Approaching footsteps could
be heard clearly. Russians or
freedom-fighters? Lovas
jumped up, and threw straw
over the sleeping children.
They stirred, but didn't wake.
Then he rushed back and
buried himself and Paula in a
haystack.
With a loud screech the
barn-door opened. Tensely,
not daring even to breathe,
praying that Tamas and Judit
would remain asleep, the fugi-
tives waited.
The urge to see who entered
the barn was great in Lovas,
and he could restrain his
curiosity only with great diffi-
culty. A slight movement at
his side ; he felt Paula taking
his hand. There was so much
reassurance in that simple
gesture.
Now they heard a cough, a
child’s cough ; a thin, wonder-
ful cough ! They could hear a
woman’s whispered admoni-
tion : “Be quiet, you little
fool.”
They sighed with relief.
There was no reason to hide
from other refugees.
The man was a huge fellow,
with oily countenance, bom-
bastic; his wife and little girl,
delicate creatures, pale and
frightened. As Lovas and
Paula emerged from the hay
a cry of alarm left all three
mouths almost simultaneously.
The fear lingered on the
women’s faces, but the man
quickly gathered his wits, and
cried out jovially, “Well, greet-
ings, our partners in fate! ”
Lovas eyed him suspici-
ously. Why should anyone be
so gay in times like this? But
as they exchanged whispered
informations his doubts eased.
Neither party would actually
reveal their true identity, nor
disclose their destination. But,
within the limits of confidence
they allowed each other, a vital
problem was discussed.
“1 figure,” the bombastic
fellow said, “speed is essential.
I’m staying on the road, I’ll
try to get a lift or two and get
where 1 want to go in a single
day. For a start I’ve arranged
transport with the peasant here.
He’s quite reasonable. Well,
how about it?”
The offer was tempting. To
get on the other side of the
Iron Curtain in one quick
move! But now Lovas re-
membered the escape-route
through Cool Valley, the
narrow, tortuous roads, so un-
suitable for mechanical
vehicles. People in the villages
already knew that Russian
mechanised columns and in-
fantry had entered Hungary
from Czechoslovakia, and were
spreading rapidly on the roads
in easterly and westerly
directions.
Lovas tried to explain all
this, but the bombastic man
dismissed his worries with one
impatient gesture. “But I tell
you: the longer you stick
around the greater the danger.
Well, I bid you, my dear
friend, a good night’s sleep.
You’re certainly going to need
it!”
At dawn the peasant came
and took his passengers away.
T OVAS drew a map in his
mind, and led his family
through the slush and mud of
late-autumn fields.
Sleet and snow beat in their
faces; dampness soaked
through their pitiful clothing ;
their city shoes were no match
for the muddy and rough
terrain. They stumbled, fell,
got up and kept on walking,
always towards the west.
Silently they walked for
hours. Then Tamas asked,
“How many more kilometres
do we have to go, Father?
How much more do we have to
walk?”
Judit was too tired to speak,
but her eyes asked the same
question.
“We're going to rest as soon
as possible,” Paula said.
The mere promise gave a
little more strength. Tamas
got hold of Judit’s hand, and
pulled her along. The mud on
their shoes seemed to weigh
heavier with every step. A little
further on the way Judit
stopped, and started crying.
“i want to, but I can’t walk
any more ; I can’t,” she moaned
in a thin, pitiful voice.
Lovas lifted her up on his
back.
“Let’s go just a little further,
to the next village. It’s getting
dark now, and wed die out
here in the fields, in this cold
and damp,” he said.
Tamas gritted his teeth,
swore that he'd never be such
a cissy as Judit, and followed
his parents.
As they battled through the
fields another group of fugi-
tives joined them. They greeted
each other with a timid smile,
and kept on walking. Only one
of the newcomers was young ;
the others were middle-aged
and very old.
After a while the young man
said, “When did you get off
the road, brother?”
“You’re talking to me?”
Lovas looked up and slightly
shifted Judit on his back.
“Who else?” the young man
said. “1 know about the
others ; we all escaped together
from the road.”
“I didn’t go on the road,”
Lovas said with sad pride.
“A funny thing,” the young
man went on; “there was a
big fellow, his wife and
daughter with us. Proud as a
peacock, he was. He caught up
with us travelling on a cart.
The peasant halted his horses
and, for a consideration, we all
climbed on. The big fellow
was full of jokes. He was
talking about a fool of a man
who took his wife and two
children on the back-road
through the fields. A Russian
armored-column appeared at
the bend of the road. They
didn't bother asking any ques-
tions, but let us have all the
fireworks. There were at least
twenty on that cart, but only
the seven of us escaped. Let
me carry your girl . . .”
"pOR four days they trod
through the fields, cursing
the heavy terrain and the
filthy weather. But at least
danger left them alone. They
were battling through a corn-
field when the first giant, eight-
storied, frontier-tower appeared
on the horizon.
It was Judit, riding on the
young man’s shoulders, who
saw it first.
“Look, a big Trojan tower
over there!”
Lovas wondered where the
girl got her strange compari-
son. Perhaps Maria had
shown her drawings in a his-
tory-book. But those battle-
towers didn’t belong to the
Trojans . . . Angrily he shook
himself out of this puzzle he
was trying to substitute for the
real problem ; the big, danger-
ous test here, in the front of
him, growing with every step
they took towards it:
“Freedom and life, or depor-
tation and death?”
The frontier-zone posed a


tremendous obstacle to all
fugitives. Inside Hungary,
miles from the Austrian border,
guards in gigantic observation-
towers kept a constant lookout
for freedom-seekers. Nearer
the frontier, the frequency of
these posts increased.
Only six months before
Lovas and his fellow-refugees
approached these strongholds
of slavery, minefields and
barbed-wire entanglements had
provided a further deterrent to
those wishing to emigrate.
Fortunately, because of the
frequent demands of the Aus-
trian Government, the Hun-
garian regime had cleared the
zone of these deadly traps.
But they substituted more
subtle methods.
A large tract of land was
stripped of all vegetation and
ploughed in such a way that
every footstep could be seen
with binoculars from the
towers. After this came a
freshly planted forest and an
artificial creek. If the would-
be migrant managed to battle-
through unharmed, blood-
hounds were certain to get
him.
“You know,” the young man
said to Lovas, “the steeple-
chase at Megyer has nothing
on this.”
He spoke like a frightened
boy whistling in the dark.
/”\N this last day of their
journey they by-passed the
villages for fear Avo informers
might get them into trouble.
It was more instinct than
commonsense that made them
so cautious. For clearly a
guide who knew an escape-
route had to be hired.
The young man volunteered
to go into the nearest village.
He was away for some time.
In the steady rain, knee-deep
in mud, the refugees waited
impatiently. Freedom was so
near to them, yet never farther
away.
Lovas felt like a caged
animal. What if the young
man, always ready with a wise-
crack, was an Avo man? He
looked at his wife and the two
children. They had followed
him blindly, never questioning
his decisions . . .
The young man returned
with a peasant-lad, not much
older than Tamas.
“The best I could get without
drawing too much attention,
but he swears he knows a safe
way to the Austrian border,”
the young man excused him-
self, observing the disappointed
faces.
The peasant-lad nodded.
“He wants all the money we
can give him —in advance,” the
young man said.
The party managed to get
together a little over a thousand
florins. The boy was pleased:
“Follow me,” he signalled,
and took them out of the corn-
fields into the open.. He was
heading straight towards the
observation-towers.
Lovas hurried up to him.
“What are you trying to do?”
he yelled. “What’s this a
trap?”
“You mean the towers?” the
lad said. Apparently he had
experienced similar scenes
before.
“Yes, the towers!” Lovas
shouted. “The guards can see
us, and mow us down like
dogs!” »
“You don’t have to worry
about them,” the lad said. “The
guards cleared-out. Some
joined the freedom-fighters,
others made themselves scarce.”
The party halted and
surrounded the lad. Did he
speak the truth? Should they
follow, or go back to the
nearest village and find another
guide?
“It’s quite evident,” one of
the elder men said, “that the
young fellow speaks the truth.
If the towers are manned by
the guards he could be killed
with us.”
These three might be working
hand in glove, thought Lovas.
The possibility horrified him.
“I’m too tired to doubt you,”
a middle-aged woman said.
In all the days they had
battled through the fields, it
was the first time he had heard
that woman’s voice.
“I feel like this lady here,”
another voice said. “Besides,
whatever we do there's a risk.”
So they kept on. The
observation-tower Judit had
seen grew in size. Paula
involuntarily stopped, and
looked at her husband. If the
lad lied, they now could be
easily detected, and shot at
leisure.
The lad didn’t halt, and the
party followed him hopefully.
As they passed the first tower
Lovas could feel his heart
drumming the rhythm of fear.
Timidly he looked up, for some
sign of life. But the place was
deserted.
In the dull, wintry day dark-
ness came early, and they were
grateful for this great protec-
tion. The lad took them to a
creek.
“I leave you here,” he said.
“The creek isn’t too deep.
You’ll make it. On the other
side just go straight ahead, and
you’ll be in Austria.”
“Let me test the depth of the
water first,” the young man
said.
In the total darkness they
heard him splash away.
“I can’t swim,” the middle-
aged woman sobbed.
“We’ll take you over some-
how, somehow, only please
don’t cry, Aranka,” an old
man’s, voice nervously tried to
reassure the desperate woman.
'T'HE young man returned.
“It’s all right,” he said.
“We don’t have to swim.”
Lovas made Tamas climb on
his back. The young man
carried Judit. They waded
waist-deep through the ice-cold
water, their teeth chattering,
exclaiming sharply as the cold
dampness hit their skin and
penetrated to their bones.
Tamas and Judit were the
only ones who remained com-
paratively dry. Lovas, who
hadn’t liked the young man
because of his callow humor,
now wondered how he could
ever repay his kindness. But
his mellow mood was trans-
formed into anxiety as they
stumbled on in the darkness.
They should have been on
Austrian territory, but there
was no sign of it.
He heard Paula’s teeth
chattering. He said, “It can’t
be much further now, darling.”
Paula at first didn’t answer ;
then she cried, “Look, just
look ; straight ahead—a light! ”
Yes, some distance away a
light was swaying to and fro.
And now, strangely enough, the
refugees didn’t rush towards
the signal of promise. Fear,
their constant companion,
prompted caution.
“I’ll go and see.” The young
man disappeared in -the dark-
ness, walking towards the light.
They all stared, fascinated. The
light was coming to them.
Clumsily they got to their feet.
Hope drove them almost mad.
Someone lit a match, and
said, “It’s five-to-three.”
“Put your match out, you
fool!” several voices hissed.
The light came closer. Now
they could hear footsteps.
Lovas counted: “One, two,
three, four . . . Two persons,”
he concluded.
“I think we’re all right,” he
whispered to Paula, and pressed
her hand in the dark.
“We’re safe, safe, safe ;
we’re in Austria!” the young
man’s voice sounded through
the darkness, proud and loud
and free. There was no longer
need to whisper.
I
TVOW their pent-up emotions
broke the barriers of
restraint. They danced, cried,
embraced, and said to each
other over and over again:
“We’re free, free, free!”
The Austrian’s storm-lamp
lit-up the commotion. He
remembered that not so long
ago his own part of his country
had been occupied by Russians.
He knew the despair and joy
in his neighbors’ hearts.
He touched Paula Lovas’s
shoulder, and said: “Gracious
'ady.”
Paula turned with tear-wet
eyes.
“Gracious lady,” the Austrian
went on, “please don't cry.
You’re safe now. Among true
friends.” Then he raised his
voice to a semi-official tone:
“Let’s hurry, I’m taking you
all to Andau. Warm clothing,
food and medical attention
awaifs you. Gome, follow me —
quickly.”
The lamp illuminated the
red-white-red flags of the
Austrian Republic, planted in
the ground to guide fugitives.
Lovas looked at the flag, and
thought with grim humor, I’ve
been free this last half-hour
and didn’t know it. It’s a loss
I’ll never recover.
His wife and children stood
at his side. They all turned
and stared into the darkness
towards Hungary.
“Come on, those lagging
behind! ” he heard the Austrian
call.
Lovas turned again and led
his family after the light that
shone into a free world and a
new life.
[the end]


sings “perchance some old-world lay”
. . . and so on.
On the other hand there are contri-
butions by such respectable authors
as James McAuley and Peter Hope-
good ; and there is at least one “dis-
covery,” an admirable poem (in spite of
the harrowing rhyme of “saw” with
“sore”) by Lila Martyr on “Sunday
Morning in Newtown”:—
And then a woman, worn by Ares
nights
With man, his selfishness, his betting
heights,
Has raised her broom and with a
lion’s roar
Has swept the dirt and family out
the door.
So uneven a collection is hardly
worth publishing at all, certainly not in
the pretentious format provided by
Edvards and Shaw; and it seems
altogether out of keeping with what
one hopes are the august critical
standards of Sydney University to have
it in any way associated with the move-
ment for the Chair of Australian
Literature.
A New Magazine
“Australian Letters,” the latest
literary bird to be heard singing in the
jaws of night, is an Adelaide quarterly
edited by Bryn Davies, Geoffrey Dutton
and Max Harris.
The June issue, Vol. f, No. 1, begins
bodefully with a history of Australian
literary magazines by John Tregenza,
their “short life and unsung death”; a
job well worth doing, since the origin
of many Australian ideas and reputa-
tions now casually accepted may be
traced to such places.
There is a fine essay on “Australian
Poetic Diction” by Geoffrey Dutton, in
which characteristically of the State
which produced the “Jindyworobak”
movement, he argues against academi-
sation of language—not, it must be
said, from the “Jindyworobak” point
of view.
Dr. Grenfell Price contributes a long
specialist review of Dr. Pike’s book of
South Australian history, Paradise of
Dissent; and Max Harris a mordant,
poet-by-poet review of “Australian
Poetry. 1956.”
There are poems by David Campbell,
Randolph Stow, Ray Mathew, Chris
Wallace-Crabbe, John Philip, and the
S.M.H. prize-winning poem by Robert
Clarke ; and there is a special feature
in which Australian authors have been
asked to state their opinions on certain
London criticisms of Australian poetry
—Roy Campbell, not an Australian
but a South African, of course, replied
just before his death with some
opinions which may seem even more
controversial to the rest of the Aus-
tralian correspondents than the original
London blue.
The magazine is published from the
Mary Martin Bookshop, 75 Rundle-
street, Adelaide.
A Piece of Edmund Wilson
Every now and again, when a
Voltaire or a Dr. Johnson arrives, the
collective reason of mankind seems to
find a voice to express, not so much
the subtlest labyrinths of philosophy,
but the plain home-truths of the human
situation which We customarily
smother in hypocrisy; and it doesn’t
seem too much, on the strength of A
Piece of My Mind; Reflections at
Sixty (W. H. Allen), to regard the
American critic Edmund Wilson as
one of those most stimulating voices.
If one is inclined to regret that the
short essays here do not deal with
literature —a subject on which Mr.
Wilson has so often been right; in
contrast to Dr. Johnson, who was
always wrong—it says much for his
candor that he is still interesting on
politics, even on such an impossible
subject as the American Presidency: —
An administration on this high
level is likely, however, to be followed
by a slump, with an inferior type of
man in office: the small party-
politician—the Warren G. Harding
or Harry S. Truman. This type has
but little conception of what the
other kind of politician has been up
to. He is a product of his party
machine, in which he has had his
whole existence and which circum-
scribes his whole ambition. It has
been for him not only his profession
but also his college, his church and
his club ; and it has even become
somehow his country. He puts old
party pals in office . . .
Mr. Wilson sees Eisenhower,
incidentally, as a type distinct both
from the idealists and the party-men:
“Grant, Hoover, Eisenhower, these
three —two generals and an engineer
—were put in by the Republican
interests for the reason that they com-
bined being popular heroes whom the
public could be made to accept with
an ignorance both of politics and
economics.”
He has a devastating picture of post-
war Europe, but not more devastating
than will seem exact to anyone who
has lately seen France at any rate: —-
But the more we save Europe
from the Huns and the Goths the
more wretched she seems to get.
Was she really proud and splendid in
our youth? How demoralised
France became at the end of the first
of these wars ; how depraved and
macabre the whole continent at the
end of the second one; how far
gone in decomposition seem so
many things one sees there today!
How futile to try to save Europe,
who does nothing to save herself!
He says of present-day Russia:—
Though personally I like Russians
extremely—sharing with them a
certain indifference to the mechanical
efficiency of the West as well as
their intellectual appetite and
though I greatly admire their art,
there are moments, nevertheless—
after a prolonged immersion, say, in
Moussorgsky’s music or one of the
19th-century novelists—when 1 feel,
like M. de Vogue, a kind of disgust
and revulsion... .One may be glad
to get away to Jane Austen.
One of the most interesting of his
essays —which would suggest, alas, that
the Russian one has been written
merely by an American bee —is on the
causes of war, in which he goes past
politics into a study of the behavior
of insects:—
And how do the ants and the
termites succeed in doing what they
do? —making bridges over dangerous
rivers, forming ranks for well-
organised wars. It seems to us that
our own operations are planned,
directed and carried out in a way
that is not possible for insects ; yet
we Japanese and Germans and
Americans are obviously doing on a
bigger scale the same sort of thing
as they. Are not our enterprises—
of war, expansion, domination,
adventure, consolidation —far more
the results of group-impulse than we
imagine? Are they not something
very primitive, so far beyond the
reach of our judgment that we are
not even aware of their nature? The
objectives we announce for the sake
of form turn out to have little
relation to what we actually do if
we win. The ants simply eat their
enemies, and there is always an
element of this in the outcome of
any war.
Obviously, the book is food for
thought; and very palatable, too. And
if Mr. Wilson seems to this reviewer
as dogmatic in his uncompromising
atheism as Dr. Johnson was in his
piety, or if his proposals for the
teaching of Latin seem absolutely
monstrous —surely it would be better
to start with an English translation of
Caesar rather than three years of
studying Latin prosody?—it would be
too much to expect the voice of human
reason always to be reasonable.
Dreyfus Again
The Dreyfus case is one of those
incidents, small enough in itself—
insofar as a man’s liberty can ever be
a small matter —which for some odd
reason become magnified into a
national legend and so live on when
far larger events have been forgotten.
Anything new about it, such as Maurice
Paleologue’s My Secret Diary of the


ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY (S.A. Branch) Incorporated
KINTORE AVENUE, ADELAIDE
LIBRARIES, COLI.EtTOKS and HISTORIANS are invited to apply for the list of
I>iii heat Kin ftom reserved stocks dealing vvith Australian Exploration. Geography,
Anthropology and History which are now available for purchase or exchange.
STURT, STUART, Mi IvIM.AV, TIM)SAY, BASEDOW, CALVERT, COINAGE AND
CURRENCY, LAKE EYRE FLOODING, ETC.
Tlopc Against -Hope
By MARJORIE WEAVER
Here is a charming light romance which will appeal to all women readers. Set
in Australia and England (both countries which the author knows intimately),
this is an engrossing story of human emotions.
Retail Price in Australia, 15/6. (Postage extra.)
Obtainable from all Booksellers.
HODDER & STOUGHTON LTD.
BOOK BUYING IS EASY AT
GRAHAME’S BOOK SHOP
\
If you enjoy browsing, when you buy books, you should pay us a
visit because we have books by the thousands on all subjects, arranged
for quick reference and handy selection.
If you prefer to discuss your book requirements, whether they be
books for leisure, books for study or books for gifts, our trained
assistants will be pleased to help.
Mail orders receive prompt attention. Write to us, indicating the
class of books which interests you and we will send you our regular
booklists, quite free of charge, which are prepared for the convenience
of our out-of-town and country customers.
THE GRAMME BOOK CO.
Pty. Ltd. Cnr. Elizabeth Street and
Martin Place, Sydney. BW 2251
BOOKS
MUSIC
L.P. RECORDS
Dreyfus Case (Seeker and Warburg), is
always fascinating; and anything at all
about it is highly relevant to our own
times when so many men, both of the
Right and Left —in Australia and in
America as well as in Europe—have
been disgraced or ruined with no more
justice than Dreyfus was.
What Maurice Paleologue’s book
makes painfully clear is the absolute
lack of any evidence against Dreyfus
there ever was; and how ruthlessly his
senior officers ganged-up on him to
protect their own reputations; and hoW
vilely wrong popular opinion was all
the time, breaking out into riots and
almost into revolution in its deter-
mination to find a scapegoat for its
fear of Germany and to ensure that
the scapegoat remained Dreyfus—a
Jew.
There simply was no evidence. All
that the court-martial—the two court-
martials—had to go on was one scrap
of paper, alleged to have been picked
up in the wastepaper-basket in the
German Embassy (which it wasn’t)
which a handwriting expert—contra-
dicted by another-—declared to have
been written by Dreyfus. Other than
that, though the authorities concocted
a great pile of “evidence”—including
several forgeries and a letter supposed
to have been written by the German
Emperor personally to this obscure
French officer —there was nothing. All
that ever was needed to clear the case
up was one simple admission by the
authorities that they had made a
mistake; instead of that everybody
covered-up, and Dreyfus went to
Devil’s Island.
Day by day in Maurice Paleologue’s
book we see this happening: the mob-
violence; the lying assurances by the
politicians that all was well; the
patriotic harangues that took the place
of evidence in the absurd and hysterical
courts; the steady and remorseless
destruction of an innocent man; the
appalling scene when he was publicly
stripped of his rank; the conviction
and imprisonment of Zola when he
tried to intervene; the hypocritical
confirmation of the first court-martial’s
verdict at the second court-martial; the
eventual declaration by the Supreme
Court in 1906, twelve years after he
had been sent to Devil’s Island, that
Dreyfus was innocent.
Paleologue says that the really guilty
men—those who were spying for
Germany—were three men whom he
names and another, “a highly-placed
officer,” whose name is still concealed.
With a responsible position in the
French Foreign Office, Paleologue was
in the closest touch with the affair
throughout; and one of the most
interesting aspects of his book is to
watch how he, too, though clearly
convinced of the innocence of Dreyfus,
covered-up . . . making his excuse the
fact that Dreyfus looked wretched at
his public degradation and so “must”
have been guilty.
Reviewed Briefly
The Two Revolutions: R. H. Bruce
Lockhart (Phoenix). Sir Robert Lock-
hart was in Russia in 1917; this 105-
page booklet is less an account of the
Provisional Government and the
Bolshevik takeover than a history of
the events that led up to the revolu-
tion; more a cold and scholarly treatise
than “An eyewitness study of Russia,
1917”
* * * *
Without Love: Gerald Hanley
(Collins). The sister of an Irishman
goes to Spain, where her brother, who
has long been assassin for an inter-
national Communist group, has gone
to kill another member of his group.
The picture of this Irishman breaking-
down, beginning to see his assassina-
tions in the light of his old Faith, is
well done; and the murder he never-
theless carries through is a masterpiece
of cold and convincing detail. Not a
very pleasant book, but here and there
it has its moment-of-truth.
* * * *
George Berkeley: Edward A. Sillem
(Longmans). The modem tendency to
freshen old subjects by saying that
they are exactly the opposite of what
people have thought they are is well
illustrated here by the contention that
Berkeley, who gave his name to
“Berkeleyan Idealism,” was not, in fact,
an idealist, but a realist. Having made
this point, Father Sillem then goes
on to discuss Berkeley’s proofs of the
existence of God, and acclaims him
as “the father, not of idealism but of
modem tendencies, good and bad, in
theistic philosophy.”


THE MOST POWERFUL LOCOMOTIVES
IN AUSTRALIA ARE EQUIPPED WITH
mm
•
> •• •-'•• V ,
.
•. • W&. \
MM ;J
<: :•':
***§ ss- % t* -—;
mm*
■ ■
' * >►&-
I
s£.••>...
® tm
m m
S;: : :
; • M
g| ' \ £s|s| y - V; •••> .; ; ■
'• ■ ■ ;>
r.,. i.#- *
The ttrvit oft
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR, RADIO, LAUNCH, MOTORCYCLE,
EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT AND HOME LIGHTING
+ A BANK OF 18 LEAD ACID TYPE BATTERIES IS MANUFACTURED AND SUPPLIED
J.
*■*»■“*!s*■
lima
*r
i
fell
j&m
'¥**■
a
| *
:A !
Si
ip
BY ERG BATTERIES TO THE NEW SOUTH
WALES RAILWAYS FOR EACH OF THEIR
46 CLASS ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES
Distributors:
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 1 56 Goulburn St., Sydney.
' ' ■ ■■ J'' '
KEEP BROS, and WOOD Pty. Ltd., 200 Latrobe St.,
Melbourne.
ERG BATTERIES Pty. Ltd., 32 Barry Parade, Brisbane.
DAVID L. PRESCOTT. 91-95 Flinders St., Adelaide.
• ''" ’ .> • " •
ERG DISTRIBUTORS. 14 Cameron St., Launceston.
J. R. ROE and Company, Darwin.
